LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, new YORK 




Cornell University Library 
TX 392.A68 

Science of food and cookery, 




3 192'4""003'547 084 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003547084 






M 



Science of ' 

FOOD and COOKERY 






U^B 




r 




From painting hy A. Haghorg 

October Potatoes 



Sc 



tence 



"f 



Food & Cookery 



BY 

H. S. ANDERSON 

DIETITIAN 

Loma Linda Sanitaiium 
California 




1921 

Printed in U. S. A. 

PACIFIC PRESS PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION 

Mountain View, California 

KANSAS city, M"0. ST. PAUL, MINN. PORTLAND, ORE. 

BEOOKFIELD, ILL. CRISTOBAL; C. Z. 



Copyright, 1921 

Pacific Pkess Publishing Association 

Mountain View, California 




In presenting "Science of Food and Cookery", to the public, we do not add 
another cookbook to the many now in the hands of the perplexed housewives 
of America. This is the fifth and enlarged edition of a little work which 
has already' made its way ; and fpr this edition, hundreds of orders are al- 
ready filed. 

There is a demand for the book from those who know the first editions. 
There is a moral demand for the information it contElins, in these days of 
world food scarcity and the need of wise food conservation, when the best 
food for the least money i5 called for. 

The recipes are riot prepared by a tyro, nor gathered from miscellaneous 
collections, nor compounded merely to please the taste. 

The author has had a score of years of experience in every stage qf 
cooking science and practical work, from mere helper to the chef. He has 
served for years under German and Swiss and Spanish and English and 
French chefs. For a year, he was second cook in the Calumet Club of 
Chicago, where he served European royalty; and for nearly the same length 
of time, in the California Club of Los Angeles; and he has also served in 
like capacity in many leading hotels in various cities. 

For the last twelve years, Mr. Anderson has given himself to the tetter 
side of the question, — healthful, palatable, scientific, economical cookery.. 
These recipes are all tested anci tried, and retested and retried in con- 
nection with experienced chemical, medical, practical collaborators, in the 
Medical Missionary College and Sanitarium of Loma Linda, California, in 
which Mr. Anderson is food expert. 

The present edition, having been got out in the blazipg light of twentieth 
century 4iscoveries, and giving special attention to the solving of , the ever 
present problem of high cost of living, should occupy a unique place among 
books of its kind, being not merely a vegetarian cookbook, but a treatise on 
foods and nutrition as well; and as such we send it forth on its mission 
of health. 

5 




So many newly discovered facts have been added to our knowle.dge of 
foods and nutrition since the beginning of the great war, that it has seemed 
best, in order to bring the subject matter up to date and to produce a volume 
that will prove to be of greater benefit to the general public,, to make some 
rather extensive alterations in and additions to "Food and Cookery." 

That the object of the book may be more fully set forth, the following 
from the preface of the preceding edition is embodied in this : 

"The book is not a treatise on vegetarianism, although it advocates the 
total disuse of the flesh of animals as food, and a more~ extensive use of 
grains, fruits, nuts, and other products of the vegetable kingdom, thus propa- 
gating a principle that tends essentially to true civilization, to universal 
humaneness, and to health and happiness generally. 

"The history of vegetarianism is as old as human history itself; and 
probably in every age, there have been some who have practiced it either as 
a religious duty, or under the belief that they would thereby conserve the 
life forces, and be the better fitted for the pursuit of peace and happiness. 
Again, there are those who adopt a vegetarian course of -diet in the belief 
that many diseases, such as gout, and gastrointestinal disorders, would largely 
disappear if the vegetarian diet were strictly adhered to. Another motive 
for adopting vegetarianism is undoubtedly economy. To a great extent, the 
human race is virtually vegetarian from necessity. Nor do we find that 
feebleness, either of mind or of body, necessarily ensues. Rather, experience 
shows the opposite to be the case. 

"It has been the purpose of this book to make the instruction and recipes 
so practical that the many who are desirous of reforming their diet may 
do so intelligently. To such, it is well to say that changes in the habits of 
a lifetime should be gradual and progressive, as the functions of the body 
do not readily adjust themselves to changes that are too radical. When flesh 
foods, are left off, digestive juices of a different character are required; but 
it is a matter of only a short time until the system adjusts itself to the change. 

"It is certainly true that as one perseveres in a non-flesh diet for a length 
of time, the relish for spices and condiments diminishes ; and as these really 
serve to blunt the sensitiveness of the palate, there gradually comes into, 
evidence, when they are discarded, a keener discernment of the rarer and 
more delicate natural flavors, which are quite inappreciable to the taste ac- 
customed to highly seasoned foods. , One mistake to be avoided, however, is 
the opposite extreme. Food should never be served savorless and insipid. 
As one has expressed it, 'When the goodman comes in expecting the usual 
roast mutton or kidney stew, do not set before him a dish of mushy barley 
or sodden beans.' There is at command a variety of vegetarian dishes, prac- 
tically unlimited, and savory enough to tempt the most fastidious. 



"The most common error of those who have eschewed flesh products is 
that, having developed the taste for natural foods, they are inclined to 
overeat. Many lahor under the delusion that because they have discontinued 
the use of the more harmful articles of diet, they are licensed to eat all their 
appetite calls for. Soon they observe symptoms of intestinal indigestion, and 
attribute it to their having adopted the diet reform. The secret of success 
in avoiding this error is thorough mastication, and the eating of only a few 
kinds of food at one meal. The benefit derived from food does not depend 
so much on the quantity eaten as on its thorough digestion and assimilation. 
Therefore if the time in which to eat is limited, the amount eaten should be 
proportionately limited." 

The various biological studies carried on in both this and other lands 
during the past few years, have emphasized the extreme value and potency 
of iresh foods and of ground whole meal cereals and flours, and have 
demonstrated clearly the deficiency of the modern so-called refined flours 
and foods. In the light of these experimental discoveries, many of our com- 
mon diseases are now attributed to the lack of minerals and vitamines, which 
have been largely elijninated from our foods, leaving them without a due 
share of those vital qualities which build up the body's resistance to disease. 
The vitamine theory, therefore, is discussed at length in the body of the text, 
being traced from its early inception, dating many years back, to its modern 
exemplification as verified in standard dietetics. 

Besides the incorporation of many new recipes in this edition, it has been 
thought best to expand the chapter "Cookery for the Sick" to include some 
instruction concerning diet in particular diseases. For this new matter, we 
are indebted to Dr. Lavina Herzer, teacher of nutrition and cooking in the 
College of Medical Evangelists, Loma Linda, California. The author also 
acknowledges his indebtedness to Mrs. Harriet E. Buchheim for her assist- 
ance in getting the matter into satisfactory form, and to Mrs. J. J. Weir, asso- 
ciate teacher, for her contribution of recipes. 

To know that the information contained herein will be the means of 
helping some others to the "more excellent way" will be reward sufficient 
for the author. 

H. S. Anderson 

■NOTE 
A number of books that are to be recommended for further study are 
the following: 

"Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," by Sherman. 
"Newer Knowledge of Nutrition," by McCoUum. 
"Science of Eating," by McCann. 
"How to Live," by Fisher and Fisk. 
"Ministry of Healing" by E. G. White. 



Foods, Their Uses in the Body II 

Building and Repair Foods 12 

Heat and Energy Foods 13 

Body-Regulating Substances 15 

The Vital Elements in Foods (Vitamines) .... 16 

Fat-Soluble A 19 

Water-Soluble B 20 

Water-Soluble C - 22 

Vitamines and Calories 26 

Food Minerals. Essential to All Life ...... 29 

The Body's Internal Defenses 31 

Food Iron 32 

Food Calcium 33 

Demineralized Food and Constipation . •. . . . . 34 

White and Entire Wheat Bread 35 

Natural Food of Man 37 

True Food Satisfies Hunger 38- 

Vegetarian Diet and Longevity ' . . 39 

Vegetable and Flesh Foods Contrasted 42 

■ Vegetarian Diet and Endurance 45 

Flesh Eating a Cause of Disease 48 

Ethics of Flesh Eating 50. 

Cruelty of Flesh Eating 51 

Balancing the Food . . . 53 ' 

Fobd Values (Chart) . 55 

Food Economics 57 

Comparative Food Values 59- 

Cookery and Food Preparation 61 

Objects Sought in Cooking 61 

Principles of Successful Cookery 67 

Practiqal Hints 69 

Food Combinations 72 

Good Combinations ...*.....,.. 73 

Poor Combinations . '. 73 

Acids and Starches 73 

8 



CONTENTS 

Fruits and Vegetables 75 

Milk and Sugar ^5 

Free Fats in Cooking >jj 

Dietetic Errors 79 

Hasty Eating , 79 

Eating Between Meals *.. . . 80 

Large Variety ' . . . . 81 

Overeating 82 

Drinking at Meals 82 

Ardficial' Stimulants 82 

About Tea and Coffee . . . 83 

■ Planning the Meal and Menu Making 85 

Table of Food Classification 86 

Backbone of the Meal 87 

Menus for One Week 88 

Table of Food Composition 90 

The Third Meal . -91 

About the Two-M«al Plan 91 

Adaptation o-f Food : ' 93 

Course of Cooking Lessons 94 

Lesson Outline 94 

Essentials to Success 96 

Table of Measures 97 

Bread 98 

The Best Flour 99 

Principles of Bread Making , . 100 

Molding the Loaves loi 

Proving the Loaves 102 

/ Baking 102 

Yeast 103 

Liquid Yeast 104 

Fermented Bread 105 

Uhfermented Breads 'iii 

Batter Breads. 113 

Dough Breads 117 

Soups ; 122 

Entrees and Noon-Meal Dishes 132 

Gravies and Sauces 157 

Vegetables 161 

' 9 



CONTENTS 

Salads and Dressings 178 

Dressings 178 

Vegetable Salads 181 

Fruit Salads 187 

Desserts ; . . . 190 

Dried Fruits 191 

Puddings and Jellies 192 

Pies 202 

Cakes and Cookies 207 

Icings and Fillings 213 

Toasts, Breakfast Dishes, Cereals, Eggs, Sandwiches . 216 

Toasts 216 

Cereals 218 

Eggs . 221 

Sandwiches .... 223 

Cookery for the Sick 228 

Invalid Recipes . . . 230 

Diet in- Disease 236 

The Infectious Diseases 236 

Liquid Diet 238 

Soft, Semisolid, or Semiliquid Diet 238 

Gastric Disorders 238 

Intestinal Disorders 241 

in Tuberculosis 243 

Diabetes Mellitus 243 

Nephritis . 246 

Anaemia (Secondary) ... 246 

Blood-Building Foods . ' 246 

Fruit Ices, Ice Cream, SnERBiiTS 247 

Principles of Canning and Preserving 250 

Time-Table for Sterilizing 253 

Vegetables a • 253 

Preservation in Salt 25^ 

Preservation of Eggs (Water Glass) 255 

Fruits 256 

Jelly Making 259 

Miscellaneous Recipes 261, 

Warmed-Over Dishes 267 " 

Wheat Flour and Sugar Substitutes • 268 

10 




I. FOODS, THEIR USES IN THE BODY 



"Eat ye that which is good." 

Foods are substances which, when taken into the body, -supply 
the necessary elements for promoting growth, repairing its broken- 
down tissue, and furnishing it with heat and power for muscular 
work. True foods contain the same elements as are found in the 
human body, and thus they are able to build and maintain the body 
structure. 

Nutrition is the sum of those processes by which food material 
is assimilated and utilized by the body. When food contains the 
same chemical units as those found in the body, and is taken in 
normal amounts, the body substance is protected and built up; but 
it is burned as fuel when the food supply is insufficient. In other 
vvordSj balanced nutritipn means that the income is equal to 
the outgo. 

Natural foods, just as they come from garden, field, and or- 
chard, furnish the elements best suited to the harmonious develop- 
ment and functioning of all the tissues and organs of the body, and 
when served in as simple and natural a condition as possible, supply 
material for both ,the building and the repair of its intricate ma- 
chinery, endowing it with a disease- resisting vitality that is found 
in true food only. 

For our every need, the Creator, has made full and wise pro- 
vision. He has given us foods suited to every requirement of the 




SCIENCE of FOOD mcC COOKERY 



body. These requirements — speaking in a somewliat restricted . 
•■■ sense — may be classed urider three general heads, to which, in this 
brief study, we must confine our attention. 

1. For Building, and Repair Foods 

o. Proteins 

6. Mineral matters 

2. For Heat and Energy Foods 

a. Starches 
h. Sugars 
c. Fats, 

3. For Body-Regulating Substances 

a. Water , 
h. Cellulose 

c. Mineral matters 

d. Vitamines 

BUILDING AND REPAIR FOODS 

The production of heat and the expenditure of vital force 
necessarily involve the wear and breaking down of tissue. There 
is never an act, as the movement of a muscle, or a thought of the 
mind, but wears out many a living cell; and thus it is evident that 
unless- continually repaired, the body, machinery could last but a 
short time. But the One who made the machine, knowing this 
need, in infinite wisdom, prepared especially for it the particulai: 
kinds of food needed for repairing and building purposes. These 
are known as protein and mineral matters. 

Protein is that element in our food which builds new tissues 
and repairs the worn parts of the body. It is found in milk, es- 
pecially in the curd (the part utilized in cottage cheese) ; in the 
white of ^^■g; in dried peas, beans, and lentils; and in the various 
nuts, most of which are rich in protein. It is found in lesser 
quantities in all our common foods except sugar and pure fat; for 
- instance, the gluten of wheat (that part which is gummy when 
chewed). Wheat gives us, in a loaf of good bread, about ten 
calories of protein in one hundred calories of food, which is the 
recognized dietary requirement in normal health. 

Minera,l Matters are those substances in our food which are 
used to build up the bones and the teeth, and which enter into the 
formation of the blood and the tissues; hence they are included 



V ^ SCIENCE 9^ FOOD and COOKERY 



in the building foods. They are found in small quantities in all 
natural foods, especially in whole grain cereals and fresh fruits 
and vegetables. 

HEAT AND ENERGY FOODS 

As our houses, are warmed, so also our bodies are maintained 
at a certain temperature, about 98.4° to 98.6°. In our homes, 
the fires are kept burning in our furnaces; so in our bodies, heat 
is generated by- a process siniilar to fire, the fire being essentially 
the same as any other fire, — the union of the oxygen ^of the air 
with the carbon of the fuel. No matter how rapidly or how slowly 
these elements unite, whether in the furnace, or in the body, or 
in the decaying log, heat is given off. 

In the body, food is the fuel that furnishes the carbon, and the 
breath is the air that furnishes the oxygen. The union of carbon 
and oxygen does not take place in the stomach or in the lungs, 
but in the various tissues to which they are carried by the blood. 
The body is thus, as it wpre, all on fire. 

To satisfy the demand for heat, we have a certain class of 
foods especially rich in carbon, and therefore well suited to the 
maintaining of normal temperature. This class is known as the 
"carbonaceous group," and includes starches, fats, and sugars. 

While our bodies must be supplied with heat, it is quite as im- 
portant that they possess an ample store of energy for work and 
exercise, in order that we may perform life's duties. In physics, 
we are taught that heat is one form or manifestation of force, and 
that heat may at will be converted into force, and force into heat. 
This is true of the heat and energy furnished by our carbonaceous 
foods. The fats are the great heat producers, while the starches 
furnish most of the energy. * 

Starch comes from vegetable foods,— chiefly the cereal grains, 
but al^o the potato and the banana. 

Fats are found in olives ; in nuts ; in milk and cream ; in butter ; 
in vegetable oils, and other solid vegetable fats. 

Sugar, .generally speaking, is of four kinds, — cane, grape, 
malt; and milk sugar. The sugar from beets, being chemically 
the same as that from sugar cane, comes under the head of cane 

13 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



sugar. In the making of refined sugar, tlie canes or the beets are 
first squeezed between rollers or presses to extract the juices. 
These juices are then evaporated to the sirup point, and the sirup 
is crystallized and separated from the molasses. The final result 
is the modern sugar of commerce. 

Cane Sugar is not digested by saliva, but by the intestinal juices 
after it passes through the stomach; and if delayed too long in 
passing, it is likely to ferment. 

Grape Sugar is found in fruit and hone)'. It is absorbed with- 
out digestion, and is perfectly wholesome. 

Malt Sugar is found in sprouting grains. That is, the grain, 
in sprouting, acts upon the starch within itself, changing it to 
sugar. This is really an act of digestion. Sprouted grain is mixed 




14 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



with scalded starch at 140° F. (Water at 150° is added to the 
starch, which cools it to 140°. Anything hotter than this, would 
destroy the action of the malt on the starch.) This is kept warm, 
and stirred occasionally; and in a few hours, the starch is changed 
to sugar. From this process come some of our best sirups. 

Milk Sugar is contained in milk, and, like grape sugar and 
malt sugar, is natural and wholesome. 

BODY-REGULATING SUBSTANCES 

These are water, cellulose, minerals, and vitamines; and they 
serve to keep the body machinery in running order. 

Water constitutes two thirds of the weight of the body, and 
enters into the composition of all the tissues and fluids. It is one 
of the most important of regulating substances, as it equalizes the 
^temperature of the body, serves as a carrier of dissolved food 
material, and prevents the accumulation of waste material. Life 
can be maintained fer a much longer period without food than 
without water. 

Cellulose is the woody, indigestible part of vegetable foods, and 
is needed because it supplies a bulk necessary to facilitate the 
movement of food along the intestinal tract. Some raw foods, 
such as lettuce, celery, cabbage, radishes, water cress, cucumbers, 
etc., may well be eaten daily, as these pass through the system 
largely as bulk, at the .same time furnishing to the body their 
valuable organic salts unchanged by heating. 

Vitamines are found in all natural foods, especially in the leafy 
vegetables, in milk, in the germ and the outer layers of grains, and 
in fruits. When the outer coat (the bran) is removed from the 
wheat, and the brown coat is renioved from the • rice, as is done 
in polishing, these otherwise wholesome and nourishing foods be- 
come devitalized, and will not support life unless foods containing 
the missing elements are ddded to the diet. 



IS 










"Better to search in fields 

for health unsoueht; 

Than fee the doctor for 

a nauseous draught." 



II. THE VITAL ELEMENTS IN FOODS 

(Vitamines) 

In recent years, numerous experiments have been conducted in 
an effort to ascertain the exact nature of the faults in diet which 
lead to such diseases as beriberi, scurvy, pellagra, etc., declared by 
some investigators to be due to a lack of specific chemical sub- 
stances in the diet. 

The relation between disease and faulty diet was first brbught 
to the attention of scientists about the year 1880, by the experience 
of the Japanese navy. The prominent place of rice in the diet of 
those who suffered of beriberi, led to a belief that it was a causa^ 
,'-tive factor in the disease. In 1897, Eijkman took up the study of 
nutrition, demonstrating by experiment .the fact that when pigeons 
were fed exclusively upon polished rice, they began to suffer of a 
nervous disorder, staggered, lost their power to stand up, or even 
to swallow food, and finally died. In other words, the pigeons 
developed a state of polyneuritis (inflammation of many nerves — 
Borland), which, is analogous to- beriberi in man. He found, more- 
over, that when the pigeons were fed on the entire kernel, the 
disease did not develop. 

In 191 1, Dr. Casimir Funk took up the study of beriberi, and 
made an effort to isolate this singular yet unidentified substance 
contained in rice polishings, and also to determine what other foods 
contain it, and what influence it has on the health. He called this 
mysterious but absolutely indispensable substance "vitamine." The 
results observed among his birds when they were restricted to 

16 



-■■•■■■■Haai*! 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



milled rice and water were identical with those reported by Eij,k- 
man. He found that when the coatings that had been removed 
from the rice were soaked in water, and a little of this fluid was 
passed through a tube into each sick bird's crop, or, if the birds had 
not reached the stage where they could not swallow, ia. portion of 
the rice polishings was fed to them, in a few hours they made 
rapid recovery, and before the day was over they were apparently 
as well as ever.' It seemed like a veritable miracle. Evidently the 
Creator has placed in the covering of the rice something that is 
absolutely essential to life, and that the rest of the grain can- 
not supply. 

Funk demonstrated, furthermore, that when fowls were fed on 
steel roller process white flour, in three or four weeks they were 
afflicted just as when they were fed on polished rice. That is, he 
discovered that the vitamines are in the outer layers in wheat, just 
as they are in rice. These experiments clearly proved that there 
is required in the diet something more than protein, carbohydrate, 
fat, and mineral salts. 

In 1914, W. Richard Qhler, M. D.,"" carried out a number of 
experiments with chickens, in order to furnish experimental proof 
for the contention that a more or less exclusive diet of white 
bread was the chief cause of beriberi in Newfoundland. Fourteen 
chickens fed on white flour bread. With or "without yeast, died 
within twenty-eight to forty days. Before death, the birds ex- 
hibited symptoms of polyneuritis, and histological examination of 
the peripheral nerves revealed considerable degeneration. Five 
chickens' fed on whole wheat bread, and two on whole wheat, lived 
in perfect health for seventy-five days, when the experiment was 
discontinued. 



' These experiments were recently duplicated in the chemistry lahoratory of the Col- 
leee of Medical Evangelists, by Dr. E. H. Risley, teacher of chemistry, with similar results, 
thus verifying the fact. 

As a result of being fed on an exclusive diet of polished rice and water^ in a few 
weeks — three to five — the pigeons began to stagger, lost their power to stand up, and 
finally became unable to eat. At this point, a portion of fluid extracted from soaked wheat 
bran (in the absence of rice polishings) was administered by opening the birds' bills and 
forcing them to swallow it, with the result that the birds made rapid recovery, and in a 
short time were as well as ever. 

' Journal of Medical Research, volume 31, No. 2. 

17 




SCIENCE 0^ FOOD and COOKERY 



Beriberi is a serious disease of the nervous tissues. As it pro- 
gresses, it affects every tissue in the body and eventually the heart, 
and is fatal unless a substance containing anti-neuritic vitamine — 
or more definitely, water-soluble B — is administered. The pigeons 
in th^ former case, like the chickens in the latter, had beriberi. 
Observe that the rice with which the pigeons were fed was good 
rice, the ordinary white kernels commonly bought at the grocery, 
the hulls having been removed to make it attractive and to improve 
the keeping quality. The white bread that resulted in disease and 
death to the chickens in the latter case, was good bread, such as 
is commonly bought at bakeries. But the food was lacking in the 
essential accessory substances, the vitamines. 

Hopkins ° discovered that small additions of milk to food mix- 
tures of purified protein, carbohydrate, fat, and inorganic salts, 
rendered them capable of inducing growth, whereas without such 
additions of milk, no growth could be secured. He interpreted this 
to mean that milk contains unidentified chemical substances indis- 
pensable to the diet, and' that the failure of animals to grow, and 
to have a normal length of life, was caused by the absence of these 
essentials, which he designated "accessory" substances. 

"Experiments by McCollum and Davis* brought out the ;fact 
that although chemical analysis of whole grain cereal shows it. to 
contain all the essential food substances, such as protein, starch, 
sugar, 'fat, and all the mineral salts that occur in the body of an 
animal, cows did not do well v/hen fed strictly on seeds or see& 
mixtures. But when they were fed on a corn mixture, including 
the seed, straw, and leaf of the plant, their nutrition was excellent, 
as shown by their appearance, the vigor of their offspring, and 
their ability to produce an abundance of milk. This indicated a 
dietetic value in the leaf of the plant. 

The work of these men showed, moreover, that certain fats, 
as butter fat, egg yolk fat, and numerous products of the plant 
kingdoqi, contain something that greatly stimulates growth when 
added to a diet of purified foodstuffs. Funk and Macallum 

" EngUeh Journal of Physiology, volume 44, 1912. 

* "Newer Knowledge of Nutrition," Journal o} Biological Chemistry, volume 24, No. 4. 

18 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



pointed out i:hat butter does not relieve polyneuritis in pigeons. 
McCollum and Kennedy, after giving several reasons why the 
term "vitamines" was unsatisfactory, proposed the provisional terms 
"fat-soluble A" and "water-soluble B," because of the characteristic 
solubility of these substances in fats and water respectively. 

(Since this was given out by McCollum, a third dietary essen- 
tial has been discovered.) 

FAT-SOLUBLE A 

The best sources of this growth-promoting dietary essential, 
fat-soluble A, are whole milk, cream, butter fat, egg yolk fat, and 
some products of the plant kingdom, as the leaves of plants and 
certain roots. Such foods as bolted (white) flour, degerminated 
corn meal, polished rice, starch, glucose, and the sugars from milk, 
cane, and beet, are mentioned by authorities as especially poor in 
fat-soluble vitamine. 

A lesson taught by experiences during the late war, was the 
importance of certain amounts of fat in the human dietary ; as in 
those countries where milk, butter, and fats generally were unob- 
tainable, the people became singularly susceptible to contagion. 
Tuberculosis, for instance, became a veritable epidemic when the 
fat supply was cut too low. Whether tuberculosis does not follow 
a deficiency of fat-soluble vitamine, rather than a general deficiency 
of fats, is a question that is still undetermined. 

Whether an abundance of olive oil, cottonseed oil, or other 
vegetable fats, or lard, which do not contain fat-soluble vitamine, 
will provide against the incursions of tuberculosis, or if such fats 
as milk, cream, butter fat, and ^^% yolk fat, which contain fat- 
soluble vitamine, are absolutely necessary as a protective against 
disease, is a proposition that still awaits final solution. 

The facts cited by recent investigators seem to agree that fat- 
soluble vitamine need not be sought solely in foods known to be 
rich in fats. Of the various plant structures, the leaves' are the 
richest in fat-soluble vitamine. Some roots are next, and lastly 
cereal grains. Clover, alfalfa, spinach, Swiss char(l, and lettuce 
contain the fat-soluble vitamine in similar magnitude ; and of these, 
lettuce has the least. 

19 




SCIENCE of FOOD amC COOKERY 



Writing on the subject of "Fat-Soluble as Nutritf/2 Factors in 
Plant Tissues," Osborne and Mender say: "o.i grn. of alfalfa, 
clover, timothy, and spinach evidently furnishes relatively .at least 
as much of this vitamine as does o.i gm. of butter fat. These 
vegetable products may in fact contain more than butter fat." 
This agrees with the work of Hindhede," whose results with young 
men correspond with observations on laboratory animals. He has 
contended that fat is not required in the diet of adults if an amount 
of fresh fruits and vegetables sufficient to supply the vitamines is 
eaten daily. ^ 

Steenbock and Boutwell' demonstrated that fat-soluble vitam- 
ines are present also in some roots, and in cucurbitous vegetables, 
(pumpkin and squash). They found the carrot and the yellow 
sweet potato to contain so much of the fat-soluble vitamine that, 
as a source of this dietary essential, they must be classed- with 
leafy vegetables. . 

They found the yellow maize (corn) to be comparatively rich 
in this growth-promoting vitamine, as when animals were depend- 
ent on it for their fat-soluble vitamine, the results were good, and 
sometimes, even if not in most cases, normal. On the other hand, 
white maize, in every case where experimental animals were de- 
pendent on it for their fat-soluble vitamine, proved to be an 
absolute nutritional failure. 

A lack of this essential constituent in the diet results first in 
a failure of growth and maintenance of life. Second, there is oft-* 
occurring inflammation of the eyes, or xerophthalmia, and mal- 
nutrition of the skin, as indicated by encrustation of the ears, and 
sores on the body generally. 

WATER-SOLUBLE B 

This anti-neuritic dietary essential (the best prophylactic in the 
prevention and cure of polyneuritis) is fouild in abundance in all 
natural, unprocessed foods. Whole grain cereals, particularly the 
embryo and coverings of grain, and of the leguminous seeds, such 

° Jourruil o/ Biological Chemistry, volume 41, No. 4, 1920, page 566. 
" Journal of Biological Chemistry, volume 46, No. 1, 1920, page 152. 
' Journal of Biological Chemistry, volume 41, Nos. 1, 2, 1920. 




SCIENCE of KXJD ancC COOKERY 



as dried peas, beans, and lentils, contain it in large amounts. The 
leafy vegetables — cabbage, spinach," lettuce, water cress, celery, 
and parsley — are rich in water-soluble B. It is also found in 
milk and egg yolk, but not in olive oil, butter fat, or any of the 
animal fats. The foods that do not contain it are polished rice, 
white flour, starch, white sugar, sirup, and fats. Water-soluble 
vitamine,« it will be recalled, is the food accessory without which 
beriberi develops in birds, animals, and man. 

The well-known investigators Chick and Hume' are quoted as 
saying that a real danger may be incurred by too exclusive use of 
bread made from' highly milled wheat ; that among groups of 
people living on restricted diets in which bread made from patent 
flour formed a large proportion of the total ration, beriberi was 
very common, whereas people living on similar diets, but with 
bread made from the entire kernel replacing that made from patent 
flour, were rarely afflicted. It is well known that in those parts 
of the world where the poorer classes su|bsist on a diet restricted 
largely to polished rice and fish, beriberi is very, common, because 
of a lack of this dietary essential (B) in the food "supply. A 
failure to provide for this important accessory results in mal- 
nutrition, followed, by nerve degeneration, leading to a sort of 
paralysis in birds, and beriberi in man, both from the same cause. 

Effects of Heat. — While dry heat (baking to a brown) seems 
to be very destructive to vitamines in general, most of the evidence 
agrees that A and B are not destroyed by heating for considerable 
periods of time by moist heat at a temperature of 212° F. or lower.' 
Steenbock and Boutwell' showed that greeijs, sweet potato, carrot, 
squash, etc., suffer no appreciable loss of their vitamines by being 
autoclaved (cooked in a steamer) at fifteen pounds pressure, 
McCoUum and Davis" found that wheat embryo could be heated 
for one hour at fifteen pounds pressure without apparent loss to 
the growth-promoting property. . McCollum, Simmonds, and Pitz" 
detected little if any diminution when navy beans were heated in 



' JovtriuA of Biological Chemistry, volume 37, page 600. 

" Journal of Biological Chemistry, volume 41, No. 2, 1920, page 169. 
^'Journal of Biological Chemistry, volume 23, No. 1, 1915, page 249. 
"■Journal of Biological Chemistry, volume 29, No. 3, 1917, page 626. 




iA^iMA^^ 



In pntcnt roller fliiur, (lie life-sustaining properties of the wliole wlieat 

are missing. 



a moist condition at 120''' C. (a1)oiit 15 ]:)Oiin(ls pressure) for one 
-and one fonrlli hours. This shows tliat tlie vitamines A and I! 
are stable to moderate licat. 

WATER-SOLUBLE C 

The information ol:itained from observations of human experi- 
ence with inadequate war diet during- the recent world conflict, 
together with extensive laboratory research, has clearly brought 
to view the existence of a third dietary essential, the "antiscor- 
butic," meaning that which counteracts scurvy. It has served to 
emphasize the fact that scurvy in the guinea pig, that in the mon- 
key, and that in man arc alike occasioned by the lack of some 
s])ccific substance in the diet which is not stable to heat. 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Scurvy, often manifested in degenerative tooth changes, such 
as severe cases of looseness and finally falling out of the teeth, 
and soreness and bleeding of the gums (Osier), is one of the oldest 
of known diseases. It is usually associated in the mind with sailors 
on long voyages, living on salt meat and hard-tack. In years past, 
in times of war, not infrequently an army suffered a greater total 
of casualties . from scurvy than from bullets. 

When the situation in Europe during the recent war became 
such that in some localities .both troops and civilians were com- 
pelled to subsist on unsuitable food, scurvy made its unwelcome 
appearance. This was not attributable to an insufficient supply of 
energizing substances, nor to a lack of foods containing a proper 
supply of protein constituents, but on the contrary, it was a force- 
ful demonstration of the fact that in the midst of plenty, the 
nutrition of foods may be dangerously defective. It further dem- 
onstrated that while the caloric value of foods may rightly claim 
recognition, it avails nothing without the cooperation of acces- 
sory substances. 

By the authorities of the American Medical Association,'" we 
are informed that definite symptoms, resembling in several details 
those found in infantile scorbutus, were induced in guinea pigs 
by dietary deficiencies. Perhaps the most striking fact brought 
forth is the predisposing effect of an exclusive cereal diet, and 
the curative and antiscorbutic potency of fresh fruits and vege- 
tables. Another fact discussed is the loss of this valuable property 
through certain methods of cooking and preservation, notably heat, 
and desiccation (drying). We are told that in campaigns in Meso- 
potamia, the British forces in some places were afiflicted with 
scurvy as the result of a constant and exclusive use of dried foods. 

In a memorandum on food and scurvy, issued by the "Food 
[war] Committee""' of the Royal Society, London, England, we 
are informed that through the investigations carried on, especially 
at the Lister Institute, as to the cause of scurvy, nothing new had 
been found, save evidence of the presence, in many foods, of a 



" JcMrnaX of the American Medical Aaaociation, volume 73, X919, page 1288. 
"Lancet, London, November 30, 1918. 



23 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



certain basic substance, the exact nature and composition of which 
remain obscure, but whose benign influence is indubitable. 

This, authority puts forth the assertion that scurvy, Hke beriberi, 
is a deficiency disease, and is traceable to a long continued con- 
sumption of foods lacking in accessory food substance, or vitamine. 
This antiscorbutic vitamine (water-soluble C) is contained in fresh 
foods — in largest amounts in oranges, lemons, and fresh vege- 
tables; in considerable amounts in roots and tubers (potato, etc.) ; 
also in small quantities in milk and fresh meat — but is very 
deficient in dried and preserved foods. The further statement is 
made that water-soluble C vitamine is destroyed by prolonged 
boiling; also that. soda rapidly destroys the antiscorbutic properties 
of food, hence should not be added to the water in which vege- 
tables are either soaked or boiled. 

It is shown that beans, peas, and lentils in their dried condition 
possess no antiscorbutic properties. If, however, the dried seeds 
are soaked in water at room temperature for twenty-four hours, 
then drained and kept moist in thin layers until they germinate 
(about forty-eight hours more), they develop antiscorbutic vi- 
tamine, water-soluble C. ' It states further that the antiscorbutic 
value of fresh meat is very low in comparison with that of fresh 
vegetables, and that tinned and preserved meat possesses no anti- 
scorbutic value. 

Water-soluble C is very sensitive to heat or drying, although, 
its keeping qualities seem to be much improved by the "presence of 
an acid. Cabbage eaten in the raw state contains active antiscor- 
butic properties; but when it is dried or boiled, its antiscorbutic 
properties are practically null. Most of the neutral vegetables, as 
peas, corn, etc., lose their antiscorbutic properties in the process 
of canning and drying. 

On the other hand, in the case of tomato and, orange, which 
are acid, the effect of boiling or drying is not nearly so pro- 
nounced, as a great deal of the antiscorbutic vitamine is preserved 
in canned tomato, also in dried tomato and orange. Canned tomato 
therefore constitutes one of the rnost useful accessories for the 
long winter months, when, in many places, canned goods are 

24 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



largely used, likewise for sailors on long voyag;es, and for armies 
in the field. An editorial in the Journal of the American Medical 
Association, under the heading, "Orange Juice Considered in a 
New Light," says on this point: 

"It is recognized by pediatricians that artificially fed infants 
thrive better if they receive some addition to cow's milk, pa,rticu-" 
larly when the latter is Pasteurized or sterilized. One reason for 
this, now understood, is that many of the artificial food mixtures 
are likely to be qualitatively incapable of averting scurvy in young 
children, so that some added antiscorbutic must be provided. For 
this purpose orange, juice has attained a well deserved popularity. 

"Owing to the jprice and occasional scarcity of oranges, notably 
during the war, special efiforts were made, both here and abroad, 
to secure suitable substitute antiscorbutics for infant feeding. The 
use of tomato, first urged by A. F. Hess, of New York, has been 
particularly promising, owing to the fact that,, in contrast with 
some other antiscorbutics, this readily available vegetable can be 
dried or canned without losing its potency in antiscorbutic vitamines, 
and it can be administered in various ways, including intravenous 
injection of the juice." — June ip, ipso. 

As to the best ways of cooking fresh vegetables, with regard 
to preserving the water-soluble C prop'erties, we quote from the 
Lancet, ^ London, as follows : 

"The destruction of the antiscorbutic properties depends rather 
upon the time than the temperature employed. All foods, espe- 
cially vegetables, should be cooked for as short time as possible, 
at boiling point. Slow methods of cooking, such as stewing with 
meat or simmering below the boiling point, should be avoided. 
Potatoes should be plunged into boiling water, and the boiling 
continued for twenty to thirty minutes after the boiling point has 
again been reached." — November 30; Ipi8. 

As throwing further light on the destructive effects of soda on 
vitamines, we refer to the experiments of Miller," who states that 
the cooking of navy beans in 0.5% sodium bicarbonate (soda) 



" Journal of Biological Chemisthl. volume 44, No. 1, page 173. 

2S 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancf COOKERY 



solution for one hour and ten minutes caused a loss of 37.4% of 
vitamine. 

To the common use of "soda biscuit" and of corn bread raised 
with soda, throughout the Southern States, is largely attributed the 
prevalence of pellagra and other deficiency diseases, due largely to 
•a lack of a proper supply of food accessories, the vitamines. 

When fruits, salad plants, herbs, and fresh vegetables are de- 
scribed as antiscorbutic, the meaning is simply that they have the 
power of preventing those changes in the blood which produce 
scurvy. What they really do is to supply the blood with various 
salts and accessory substances- which maintain the body fluids in 
their proper chemical condition, thus preventing tissue change 
and decay. 

VITAMINES AND CALORIES 

In the past, it has been customary to express the value of a 
diet largely in terms of heat units, or calories, since it was sup- 
posed that the value of foods depended largely, if not entirely,' 
upon the amount of Reat produced from the consumption of their 
so-called nutritive constituents — protein, carbohydrate, fat, etc. 
Therefore, with the rise in prices of foods generally, as the result 
of the great war, the public was well advised to consider the 
caloric value of the foods purchased, in order that the greatest 
possible amount of energy might be obtained for the least ex- 
penditure of means. ^ 

The result was, there came a tendency to purchase food by 
the calorie rather than by the kind. This principle is all right so 
far as it goes ; but in the light of our newer knowledge on ,the 
subject of nutrition, it falls far short of the actual needs of the 
human machine, which is infinitely more complicated than an ordi- 
nary mechanical contrivance. 

As a result of biological studies carried on during the past 
few years, much light has been thrown on this important subject. 
For instance, a diet was constructed in which protein was repre- 
sented by the casein in milk, carbohydrate by starch, and. fat by 
lard, all carefully purified by chemical treatment, so as to exclude 
anything but these three substances. This was fed to young rats 

26 




SCIENCE gf FOOD and COOKERY 



in quantity more than sufficient for their daily output of energy. 
Such a diet is sufficient, both in quantity and in quality, for the 
nourishment of the animal ; but it does not contain any of the vital 
constituents of fresh foods, the vitaraines. In theory, this should 
form an ideal diet; but in practice, it was found that the animals 
soon ceased to grow, and also developed certain diseases, notably 
rickets and scurvy. When this stage had been reached, a small 
quantity of fresh. uncooked food was added to the diet, whereupon 
growth vvas resumed and the animals became healthy again. 

Further experiments brought to light three very important ad- 
ditional facts; namely, that animals fed on chemically pure foods 
showed a markedly diminished power of resistance to infectious 
diseases; and in the case of female rats, the offspring were poorly 
developed ; and the mothers were unable adeqtiately to suckle their 
young. Dr. Harvey W. Wiley, expert in food and nutrition, says: 

"Up to the era of the discovery of the cause of beriberi, the 
principles of correct diet were based upon the supply of a so- 
called balanced ration. . . . We were taught, that this balanced 
ration consisted of certain amounts of protein, carbohydrate, fat, 
and minerals. Much to the astonishn^ent of physiologists, it was 
discovered that when an animal was fed pure protein, pure carbo- 
hydrate, pure fat, and pure rhineral, it failed to grow, gradually 
lost weight, and finally died." 

"Our whole system of diet, therefore, has to be reconstructed! 
from the discoveries of the last fifteen or twenty years. These 
discoveries have particularly emphasized the food value of the ex- 
ternal coatings and germs of cereals. This value rests not alone 
in their content of ordinary digestible foods, but exists particularly 
by reason of the water-soluble vitamine contained therein. 

"Perhaps there is no point in medicine so confusing and con- 
flicting as the dietaries prescribed by the attending physician in 
case of illness, and likewise for children and grown persons as a 
preventive of disease. The very foods that have been most de- 
natured, and therefore are least wholesome and assimilable, are 
constantly prescribed by physicians for the well as for those who 
are ill. The functions of leaf vegetables, for instance, so important 

27 





SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



in dietetics, and carrying as they do the chief fat-soluble vitamines, 
are those that the physician too often neglects." — Quoted in "Lit- 
erary Digest," June f, iQip. 

Thus we find that there are three vitamines; and there are 
possibly more, as scientists believe there is a fourth which cures 
rickets in children ; and there may be others. Vitamines are not 
manufactured in the body ; neither are they contained in soil, in 
combination with minerals ; but they are elaborated by the plant 
itself. A lack of these accessories in the daily food is a species 
of starvation, and ends disastrously unless the body can be supplied 
with those substances so abundantly provided in unprocessed and 
uncooked foods. The subject is one that presents fascinating fields 
for experimental study and research ; and every advance step 
serves to bring us nearer to nature and to nature's God, leading 
to the avoidance of needless suffering and disease, and to the 
betterment of mankind. 




38 





III. FOOD MINERALS 
ESSENTIAL TO ALL LIFE 

"Learn from the birds the food the thickets yield; 
Learn from the beasts the physic of the field." 
"Eat to live rather than, live to eat." 



A MOST interesting parallel is observed in th^ study of the 
composition of the human body, the cells of plants, and fertile, 
fruit-bearing soil. Professor Sherman,' of the Columbia Uni- 
versity, gives the following list of elements as composing the 
■ human body: oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, phos- 
phorus, potassium, sulphur, sodium, chlorine, magnesium, iron; 
iodine, fluorine, and silicon in very minute quantities; also traces 
of manganese and aluminum. The same text shows, that natural, 
unrefined foods contain these same elements in varying quantities 
and proportions. 

Analysis 'of normal soir reveals the same elements to be con- 
tained in earth, and experience teaches us that these various mineral 
elements in the soil are absolutely necessary to insure a paying crop 
of grain or vegetables. The average farmer seems to recognize 
instinctively that a lack of .soil minerals woilld result in a f,eeble 
or stunted yield, hence he looks well to the matter of the richness 
of the soil before casting in his seed. Intelligent stock raisers, 
who make a business of feeding cattle for definite ends, calculate 
the results according to fixed laws. Proper food is the means 
whereby they supply the essential building material for the physical 
needs of the animals in which th^ir money is invested. 

With respect- to his own food, however, man persistently vio- 
lates one of the most beneficent of nature's laws, in that he submits 
his most staple foods to a process of hulling and scouring that 
leaves them almost void of the mineral and vitamine on which life 
is so dependent. These very important parts of our food are 
carefully separated from our food and fed to farm. animals, thereby 
developing magnificent specimens of stock,- while our own health 
suffers proportionately from a lack of these elements. 



1 "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," page 234. 
' "Soil Analysis," volutae 1. 



29 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



To a certain extent, these elements are constantly given off by 
the body; and consequently our food must furnish a continual 
resupply of them. The carnivorous as well as the herbivorous 
animals must have these needs satisfied; but in flesh foods, these 
elements are not evenly distributed. Hence the carnivora eat the, 
whole carcass, — viscera, hide, bone, and all, — in order to obtain 
these mineral elements, which are found largely in the bones and 
other hard parts. When we use flesh as food, we select for ali- 
mentation only the muscular parts, which are poorest in mineral. 

With this, there is the growing tendency to rely upon artificially 
prepared foods, — sugars, white bread, white rice, package foods, 
etc., — from which the greater portion of essential mineral and 
vitamine has been removed. This in itself would be sufficient to 
constitute a potent factor in degeneracy ind disease, even with 
an abundant supply of otherwise energetic food. 

While it would be a question of the greatest difiSculty to de- 
terming exactly how much of each of these numerous, mineral 
elements we need, it suffices us to know that they are most im- 
portant, and it would seem reasonable that we should have all that 
natural foods contain. The condition of the blood depends upon 
the character of the food supplied to the digestive organs. In 
compounding that marvelous stream, which carries life to every 
tissue and organ of the human body, nature obtains her building 
materials from food, just as she obtains food from soil, water, 
and air. 

The different mineral ingreSients present in the internal se- 
cretions of the human body 'have their definite functions to fill in' 
the maintenance of good health, and are not present there through 
blind accident. The Master Architect who made the human body, 
and who declared that "the blood is the life," placed these food 
essentials called vitamines, and the various mineral ingredients, in 
the fruits, the grains, the nuts, and the vegetables; and these ele- 
ments must be in the food in order for the body to take them 
jrom the food. The removal of one or more of these constituents 
from our food may mark the beginning of disaster to the body. 

30 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



In their absence, the body may make use of others until the handi- 
cap asserts itself; then the physician is sought, or perhaps resort 
is had to some drug, in a vain effort to correct the disorder. 

THE BODY'S INTERNAL DEFENSES 

If we put a drop of blood under a microscope, a Seertiingly 
countless number of small corpuscles come into view. Most of 
them are red, but some are white.> They have a well defined work 
tp do in the defense of the body against intruding germs, of dis- 
ease. The white corpuscles are always present in inflamed parts, 
and take into themselves foreign particles in the blood, minute 
organisms -known ^s bacteria. These little corpuscles are called the 
"so4diers" of the body; for they play a prominent part in the cure 
of diseases, and in their prevention in persons exposed to infection. 

Together with them in the blood, in which they circulate, and 
as part of their structure, we find the before mentioned mineral 
elements — iron, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, etc. This is al- 
ways the case when pure blood is examined. The blood corpuscles 
so necessary to our. welfare are never without iron; and when the 
iron is removed, these little warriors die. The constancy with 
which these mineral elements appear in the soilj in plants, in all 
natural foods, and in the tissues of the human body, reveals the 
fact that they are absolutely essential to life. In the face of this 
great truth, we see vast commercial enterprises built up for the. 
sole purpose of removing them from our food. Notwithstanding 
this, the blame for the prevalence of disease and broken constitu- 
tions is usually thrown upon God. 

When the diet is composed largely of refined foods, no matter 
how much nourishment the food might otherwise contain, the 
system cannot make the -best use of such nourishment, because of 
the absence of those elements necessary to its assimilation. Dr. 
William Edward Fitch, major Medical Reserye Corps, U. S. A., 
says on this point: 

"It is known at the present time that life cannot be maintained 
on foods deficient in inorganic salts. It iS also recognized by 
research workers that something more is essential for the main- 

31 



SCIENCE of FOOD and. COOKERY ^^ 



Fat , 

% 
2.6l 


Starch ^ Ash 

(mineral matter) 
% % ■' 
69.94 I-PI ■ 


1. 00 


74-70 .50 



tenance, growth, and well-being of man than protein, carbohydrate, 
and fat. Unless food contains sufficient mineral matter, no matter 
how well balanced the ration may be in the ternary food elements, 
nor how large quantities are ingested, nor how high the caloric 
value, there will be malnutrition. In Forster's experiments, dogs 
and pigeons fed on d^mineralized food died earlier thati those that 
were entirely deprived of foo.d." — "Dietotherapy," volume i, 
page 260. 

The following table is from an outline given in the same text, 
entitled "Analysis of -Wheat and Ahe Products of Roller Milling." 

Protein 

% . 

Wheat as it enters the mill 14.-18 

Patent roller, high grade flour 11.20. 

A study of this table shows that there is a substantial loss in 
protein in converting the wheat into white flour, a loss of more 
than 50% of fat, and a total loss of combined mineral matter to 
the extent of nearly three fourths the amount contained in the 
whole grain, while the proportion of starch is correspondingly 
greater. In these modern times, when so many of our staple foods 
are submitted to refining processes that in many instances remove 
the larger portion of these valuable minerals and vitamines (found 
principally in the germ and outer coverings of the seeds), it is 
V!t\\ to understand som.ething of the wonderful functions of food 
minerals in the maintenance of life and health. 

FOOD IRON 

The function of iron in the human body is of the" highest im-. 
portance. Iron is used by the body in carrying the oxygen from 
the lungs to the tissues, where the processes of nutrition are carried , 
to completion, and the waste substances so dangerous to life are 
oxidized. The hjemoglobin (red coloring matter of the blood), 
like the chlorophyll (green coloring matter in plants), is dependent 
on iron for- its existence. Concerning the importatice of a proper 
supply of food iron, Professor Sherman says: 

32 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



"There is no considerable reserve store of relatively inactive 
iron in the body corresponding to the store of calcium and phos- 
phorus in the bones. Hence if the intjike of iron fails to equal 
the output, th€re must soon result a diminution of hsemoglot)in, 
which if continued, must mean a greater or less degi-ee of anaemia." 
-^"Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," page 285. 

According to Graham Lusk," ordinary white' flour contains only 
1.5 milligrams of iron in 100 grams of fresh substance, as against 
5.2 milligrams in the same quantity of entire wheat flour; white 
flour contains only 146 milligrams of potassium and 86 of phos- 
phorus, as against 515, milligrams of potassium and 469 of phos- 
phorus in the same quantity of entire wheat flour. 

When iron is lacking in the food, and consequently in the blood, 
the color vanishes from the cheeks. Iron deficiency baffles many, 
even' physicians, who often fail to see an abundant supply of it 
at their very doors. The most prolific sources of food iron are 
the well-known greens, — spinach, beet greens, dandelion greens, 
lettuce, succulent vegetables, and many fruits, especially straw- 
berries and prunes. 

FOOD CALCIUM 

This inorganic mineral, according to Sherman, constitutes about 
2% of the entire" body weight; and of this total amount, about 99% 
is in the bones. - Thfe remaining per cent, though small, being an 
essential constituent of the soft tissues and the body fluids, is abso- 
lutely necessary to the normal action of the heart muscle, and to 
the coagulation of the blood. Experiments on birds showed that 
when the birds were fed for a length of time on- a calcium-poor 
food, there was a marked wasting of calcium salts from various 
bones ; when the birds were killed and dissected, some of the bones 
were found to have been perforated in order to supply needed 
lime for the body's- metabolism. 

This may serve to explain the cause of the hollow teeth and 
bone deformity among children fed largely on white breads, 
sugarl,' candies, and flesh meats, all of which are very poor in 
calcium. May we not conclude that When they are fed on such 

. ' "Science of Nutrition," third edition, page 360. 

33 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



a diet, the body will retaliate, as it were, and draw upon the 
bones and the teeth for that which is lacking in the food? 

Almonds, milk, t^^ yolk, oranges, prunes, carrots, parsnips, 
and entire ground cereals are rich in calcium. As set forth by 
Sherman, the entire wheat products contain more than twice the 
amount of calcium found in white flour. 

DEMINBRALIZED FOOD AND CONSTIPATION 

Constipation is declared to be the most prevalent ailment of 
civilized man. It should be regarded as but a condition of de- 
ranged nutrition; and consequently any treatment, to be eiificient, 
must be directed not simply toward the temporary removal of the 
symptom, but at the cause. A fact which should be more generally 
known, is that nature provides a powerful yet harmless laxative, 
which will accomplish for the individual what no medicine can do. 
This laxative is in all plain, unrefined, wholesome foods as fur- 
nished by iiature. 

Natural foods, when not submitted to the modern refining proc- 
esses, contain a bulky element — the rough, indigestible particles 
of vegetable matter that absorb moisture and increase the volume 
of the bowel content, thereby exciting them to more thorough 
action. Besides promoting this mechanical propulsion, unrefined 
foods contain certain properties that lubricate the bowels and 
stimulate peristalsis. These are the acids, the fats, and the min- 
eral salts. 

Examples might be multiplied that indicate the evil effects fol- 
lowing the continued use of demineralized foods, which have been 
robbed of the greater part of their essential mineral and vitamine 
in order to convert them into products that will "keep." Diagnos- 
ticians agree that many of the ills that afflict mankind are preceded 
by constipation. They also agree that freedom from constipation 
averts many ills. Peoples who subsist on foods as nature supplies 
them are not troubled with constipation. Decaying teeth, appendi- 
citis, tonsillitis, and constipation are rife among all civilized p''eoples 
who eat largely of concentrated foods, and who remove the hulls 
from their cereals in preparing them for eating. 

34 




SCIENCE gf FOOD anif COOKERY 



WHITE AND ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

A good deal has been said, during the past few years, as to the 
respective merits of entire wheat and white flour breads. Entire 
wheat flour is simply the whole grain ground up.; white, or so- 
called refined flour, is obtained' by reriioving' the germ and most 
of the outer covering of the grain. The ordinary "Qraham" bread 
sold by most bakers is merely white flour mixed with bran, and 
usually a small amount of molasses or malt, to give color and 
flavor. This is not the same as entire wheat bread, because white 
flour and bran are only two out of several products of the mill, 
middlings, shorts, etc., also belonging to the bread.' 

The analysis of entire wheat and white flour, as given on page 
32, shows the removal of the greater part of , combined mineral 
from wheat, in the manufacture of modern white flour; and the 
same is true of the commercially ground corn meal. This is sig- 
nificant indeed, when so much is heard about "deficiency" diseases, 
and the association of deficiency of mineral and yitamine with 
nervous collapse, rickets, etc. The natural result of living on a 
more or less exclusive diet of white bread, white rice, refined 
sugars, demineralized breakfast foods, and vegetables that have 
been depleted of their mineral salts by improper cooking, is a 
condition of saline starvation ; and it often manifests itself in 
nervous irritability, neuralgia, sciatica, and other complaints of a 
nervous origin. As one writer (Broadbent) has said, "A whole 
page could easily be filled with a list of protean maladies due to 
thii condition." 

Thus we may say positively that what is craved by the normal 
appetite, and.' fills so important a place in the vital economy, is not 
the white sugar of commerce, but the saccharine elements in fruits 
and succulent vegetables. It is not the starch of refined white 
flour, or polished rice, or degerminated corn meal, that is needed 
to nourish the body and develop strength, but, it is, the amylaceous 
(starchy)' mattet and oily constituents contained in foods proper, 
which, when combined in the food entire, give honest, all-round 
buildirig material. 

35 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Nearly one hundred years ago, Sylvester Graham led out in a 
great health movement in America, in which multitudes who had 
been considered incurable were restored to health by adopting his 
dietetic ideas. He advised his followers to eat entire wheat bread 
(it became known as Graham bread, after his name), which other 
people despised, just as the nations of the East were despising 
natural brown rice, and were suffering physical disorders in con- 
sequence. Graham taught the people the importance of the whole 
grain, including its outer coverings, . and of the fresh green foods 
in all their strength. He advocated the use of the very foods that 
contain vitamine, and we are now in possession of evidence as to 
the scientific reasons for the results he obtained. 

Polished rice, white bread, refined sugar, and demineralized 
foods generally, do not introduce some mysterious germ into the 
body: their use simply deprives the blood and the tissues of those 
particular elements which are essential for nutrition and growth, 
in both children and adults, and which are contained in the por- 
tions that are removed in the refining process. It is thus that the 
body's defenses are broken down and its immunity destroyed. 
These so-called refined cereal foods, flours, flakes, sugars, etc., 
are but. a modern invention. Our grandfathers knew little about 
them, and suffered less from the present-day deficiency diseases 
that tax the ingenuity of the medical profession and fill un- 
timely graves. 

Nature's remedies for many of the modern ills may be had by 
all. Unbolted wheat and corn breads, natural brown rice, with 
an abundance of fruit and succulent vegetables, furnish a combi- 
nation of body-building elements which makes for red blood and 
all-round general health. The best way to avoid disease, as well 
as to prepare for any "epidemic," is to build up tl^e "body's resist- 
ance by the use of wholesome, unprocessed foods, containing th.e 
organic ingredients necessary for the maintenance of a disease- 
resisting vitality, which is the best protective against the diseases 
that infest our world. 



36 




'Tell me what you eat and I will tell you what you are." 



Since the elements that enter into the composition of the body 
are precisely the same as those which compose plants, it follows 
that a proper diet for man must be such plants as contain these, 
chemical units in proper proportion. The human body being un- 
able to assimilate these mineral elements in their inorganic condi- 
tion, they must be organised, as in plant life, before they can be 
of use to the body. 

Only plants have power to absorb these mineral salts from 
soil, water, and air, and organize them into food for the use of 
man. For this reason, the -patent medicines that purport to contain 
these mineral ingredients are of little value. Some of these min- 
erals are actually poisonous when taken- in their free state. But 
not so when nature finishes her work of combining and compound- 
ing them ; they are then no longer poisonous, but actually beneficial 
to both plant' and animal. 

The vegetarian diet. is the natural diet of the human race; and 
one of its great advantages is that it is composed of foods that 
are more or less complete in the essential constituents, containing 
in varying proportions protein, carbohydrate, fat, mineral matter, 
and the indispensable vitamine, which combine to make the food 
Nfully adapted to the needs of the body. Dr. Alexander Haig, uric 
acid specialist of London, England, says concerning the adapta- 
bility of the vegetarian diet to life and health: 

"That it is easily possible to sustain life on the products of the 
vegetable kingdom needs no demonstration for physiologists, even 
if a majority of the human race were not constantly engaged in 
demonstrating it; and my researches show, not only that it is 

37 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



possible, but that it is infinitely preferable in every way, and 
produces superior powers of both mind and body." — "Uric Acid 
in the Causation of Disease," page 864. 

TRUE FOOD SATISFIES HUNGER 

A wrong impression of the vegetarian diet is often received 
by those who would test it by trying an, occasional meal without 
meat. No diet can be fairly judged in this casual way. In the 
first place, those who are accustomed to the stimulation of meat 
will most certainly feel the want of such stimulation on leaving 
it off abruptly for a meal or two. In the second place, .the system 
that has become accustomed to digest principally flesh food, finds 
some difficulty at' first in digesting other foods; hence it requires 
a little time to adjust itself to the change. 

Another wrong impression in the minds of some, is' the fear 
that in leaving off the high protein meats, they would have to eat 
far too much vegetable food in order to supply sufficient protein, 
and thus would have a preponderance of starch. One gbod woman 
understood that a person must take enormous quantities of haricot 
beans or other protein food to compensate for leaving off flesh 
meat, and was "quite beat to take four platefuls" ! , But this is 
altogether a wrong idea;' for all the legumes (beans, peas, and 
lentils) are exceedingly nutritious and heavy in protein, and their 
liberal use is almost sure to overload the system with nitrogenous 
material." 

There are still others who, having subsisted on flesh foods, 
claim that vegetable food does not satisfy the appetite. This is 
largely due to one of two factors, or to both. In the first place, 
the qualities in cereal , foodg that satisfy the appetite are their 
mineral salts, contained in the germ and Qufer coatings of the 
seeds. These having b^en almost entirely removed from our mod- 
ern flours, breads, etc., also from vegetables pared too thickly, the ' 
eater of such demineralized food is left with an unsatisfied craving 
for elements that the body actually needs. This craving leads to 
overeating, in a vain effort to satisfy the demands of nature. 

A second factor is that flesh eaters usually eat rapidly, without 
thorough mastication; and as starchy foods are dependent upon 

38 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



the action of the ptyalin of saliva for proper digestion, and con- 
sequently require more thorough chewing than flesh foods, they 
are likely to ferment in the stomach if eaten hastily. Entire meal 
cereals and breads, with an abundance of fresh veget?ibles, both 
cooked and raw, together with moderate amounts of nuts and dairy 
products, legumes, etc., satisfy the normal appetite without any 
"stuffing," and without the sensation of "fullness" after meals 
which is so characteristic of many who partake largely of refined 
cereal foods and flesh, foods. 

In referring to the effect of improper diet on health and lon- 
gevity, Serieca, the old, Roman who attained eminence as a rheto- 
rician under the early empire, is quoted as saying, "Man does not 
die; he kills himself." It is when we scorn natural food,, and 
follow after artificial gratifications and indulgences, that the body 
powers are weakened and sickness results. , Natural, wholesome, 
and seasonable foods, when prepared and served in an appetizing 
manner, will be relished in the eating, "A good appetite needs no 
brush" — it relishes 'good food that is well prepared and attractively 
served, and thus a minimum of work will be thrown on the system, 
the health will be promoted, and efficiency" will be increased. 

VEGETARIAN DIET AND LONGEVITY 

The diet originally planned for man, and that enabled him to 
attain to the age of nearly a thousand yearsj is outlined by the pen 
of inspiration in the first chapter of Genesis, twenty-ninth verse: 
"Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed, . . . and 
every tree, in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it 
shall be for food." (A. R. V.) Thus the One who created man, 
and who understands his every need, appointed Adam his fpod, 
consisting of grains and nuts. After the fall, when the ground 
was cursed for man's sake, the herb of the field was added to his 
diet. (Genesis 3:17, 18.) After the Flood, when all vegetation 
had been destroyed by water, God permitted man to eat flesh. 
(Genesis ^: 3, 4.) . 

It is interesting at this, point to note the comparison of the 
length of life of men who lived before the JFlood, and who sub- 

39 





SCIENCE of FOOD cmd COOKERY 



sisted upon fruits and grains, with that of the generations living 
immediately after the Flood, who subsisted upon the flesh of ani- 
mals, at least as part of their daily food. The following figures 
show that the average length' of life for nine generations before 
the Flood, as recorded in Genesis 5 : 3-32 ; and 9 : 29, was 912 
years. The average for ten generations after the Flood, when 
flesh meats wer^ used as ffaod, was but 317 years. (Genesis 
11:10-32; 25:7, 8.) 



Nine Generations Before 
THE Flood 

Name Age 

Adam , .... 930 

Seth gi2 

Enos 90s 

Cainan ...;... 910' 

Mahalalee^, , . . r. . 895 

Jared ' v . . . . . .j '962 

Enoch (translated) 

Methuselah '969 

Lamech '. . . . 777 

Noah 950 

8,210 
Average, 912 years. 



Ten ' Generations After 
THE Flood 

Name ' Age 

Sljem 600. 

A'rphaxad 438 

Salah "433 

Eber 464 

Peleg 239 

Reu 239 

Serug ' ., 230 

Nahor 148 

Terah 205 

Abraham 17S 



Average, 317 years. 



3,171 



"And Haran died before' his father Terah in the land of his 
nativity." Genesis 1 1 : 28. * One would infer, from this scripture, 
that until about the tenth generation after the Flood, it was so 
unusual a thing for a child to die -before its father^ that mention 
is made of the fact in Holy Writ. 

Following on, we briefly trace the history of the chosen people 
in their march down into Egypt, where they came under heavy 
bondage to the Egyptians until the time of their deliverance. 
When the prophetic period had expired, and the time for their 
release had come, God brought them out with a strong hand, to 
make them the dep9sitaries of the Holy Oracles, and His peculiar 
treasure above all people. It was designed that through them, all 
the world should come to a knowledge of the true God.. Their 
health/ was jealously guarded, and a fleshless diet was given them. 
(Exodus 16:35; Joshua 5:12.) But they despised "the corn of 

40 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



heaven," and cried for flesh; so He permitted them to eat "clean" 
flesh. (Numbers 1 1 : 4-6 ; Deuteronomy 14:3-20.) 

If is recorded in "A Prayer of Moses the Man of God," that 
the years of man were "threescore ^and ten" — an evidence that 
. the race was not benefited in the least by a diet of flesh. (Psalm 
90:10.) 

Laterj in apostolic days, when the gospel was preached to the 
gentiles, the message of physical holiness was again proclaimed 
as a part of the gospel of salvation, in the words: "Ye are the 
temple of God. ... If any man defile the temple of God, him 
shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple 
ye are." i Corinthians 3 : 16, 17. Then follows the statement of 
a great principle, defining the motive which should actuate the 
recipients of grace in the exercise of Christian temperance in all 
things, and which will prove a safe guide to follow in the selec- 
tion of the kind and quantity of food best suited to the keeping 
of the body in a state of health: "Whether therefore ye eat, or 
dririk, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory Of God." i Co- 
rinthians 10:31. 

This principle, if heeded, will control in all matters pertaining 
to the diet, as in every ict of life, preserving us from intemperance 
in all its varied forms. "Every practice which destroys the physi- 
cal, mental, and spiritual energies is sin. The laws of nature, as 
truly as the precepts of the Decalogue, are divine ; and only in 
obedience to them can health be recovered and preserved." 

The desire of God for every human being is expressed in the 
words, "Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper 
and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth." 3 John 2. Here, 
as ever, inspiration places the health of the body on an equahty 
with the health of the soul, as indeed they are dependent one upon 
the other. 

To the chosen people, the laws relating to both spiritual and 
physical well-being were made plain ; -aiid on condition of obedi- 
ence, they were assured, "The Lord will take away from thee all 
sickness." Deuteronomy 7:15. "Ye shall serve the Lord your 
God, and He shall bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take 

41 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



sickness away from the midst of thee." Exodus 23:25. These 
promises are likewise for us to-day; and it is the privilege of every 
child of God, through obedience, to know the meaning of His 
promise, "I am the Lord that healeth thee." Exodus 15:26. 

VEGETABLE AND FLESH FOODS CONTRASTED 

In their growth, vegetables secrete no poisons; whereas in all 
animals, the very processes of life consist in the breaking down 
of tissue, and the formation of products of waste and oxidation. 
Thus when we eat flesh, we ingest, along with muscle and' nerve 
cells, those waste and poisonous substances known, as urea, uric 
acid, creatinine, etc. These poisons taken into the body must be 
eliminated, together with the normal amount of uric acid formed 
within the human body; and thus extra work is thrown upon the 
kidneys and the eliminative organs. This keeps the human ma- 
chinery at high tension; and the process kept up, inevitably results 
in raising the blood pressure, often producing Bright's disease. 
\ Because of the presence of these waste and poisonous sub- 
stances, flesh foods stimulate and excite the nerves. The effort 
on the part of nature to rid the system of poisons is commonly 
mistaken for real energy; but in reality, the action upon the body 
is the same as when tea, coffee, and alcohol are taken. For this 
reason, a patient with gout or inflammatory rheumatisrn is ordered 
by the physician to discontinue at once the eating of any kind of 
meat. The system, being already laden with poisons', cannot tol- 
erate the burden of additional quantities of uric acid ingested 
with meat. 

<^ All the nourishment that is found in the world to-day was made 
by the plants. This is evident when we consider that the greater 
quantity of vegetable food ingested by the animal is burned as 
fuel, leaving within the flesh of animal or fowl, only a remnant 
of the energy and food elements originally obtained from plants. 
This remnant amounts to about 25%, with 75% waste; whereas 
in our cereal grains, we receive 75% of nourishing properties, 
with only 25% waste. This so-called waste in whole meal cereals 
is not waste at all as compared with that found in meat; for the 

42 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



12% of water in wheat is of the purest, and the rough part, when 
ground with the wheat entire, furnishes a necessary bulk, and is 
rich in mineral and vitamine. 

As a further illustration, we compare the following analyses of 
fresh perch and sweet apple.' It will be seen that the fish under 
consideration contains about 90.9% of water and refuse, with 9.1% 
of nourishing properties, as against 88.3% of water and refuse in 




Fresh Perch 



Sweet Apple 



ripe apple, with 11.7% of nutriment. This comparison shows, 
moreover, that we receive a greater total of food units in a pound 
of fruit than in the pound of fish. 



Water arid 

Refuse Protein Fat 

Fresh Perch 90.9 y.s 1.5 

Sweet Apple 88.3 .3 .3 



Carbohy- Mineral Total 

drate Matters Calories 

.4 200 

10.8 .3 220 



--{i Some may dispute the above reasoning, on account of the re- 
puted value of fish protein. However, it is well known that for 
persons using a variety of vegetable and cereal foods, together 
with a moderate proportion of dairy products, this high percentage 
of protein in fish and meats not only is useless, but actually over- 
burdens the system with a dead weight of surplus material. On 
the other hand (from the standpoint of purity), the advantage is 
altogether on the side of the fruit, as in fruit we receive of the 
purest distilled water, charged with most cleansing acids, while 
the water found in the animal's body is filled with refuse material, 



^ Bulletin No. 28, United States Department of Agriculture. 



43 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancf COOKEIfY 



which must be expelled from the system at a great expense to the 
excretory organs. 

A further study of the analysis of food, shows that in nutritive 
value, each pound of corn is equal to about two and one half 
pounds of beef. Consequently, it would seem the very height of 
wisdom to get the nutriment direct, by eating the corn or other 
cereal in good bread or other delicacy, rather than feed it to the 
anima,l and then eat it in the form of steer or hog. 

Though we allow that animal products all contain a share of 
the nutritive constituents necessary for oui; existence, because the 
animal has taken sustenance from the vegetable kingdom, never- 
theless, when we eat flesh, we are but eating grains and vegetables 
at second hand. The life that was in the vegetable . passes into 
the eater; and though we may receive it in part by eating the flesh 
of the animal, how much better to get it direct by eating the food 
originally provided for our use! 

The gift of taste came from God, just as much as sight or 
hearing; and we should derive enjoyment from the healthy exer- 
cise and proper use of these special senses. Through habitual 
indulgence in stimulants, condiments, and highly seasoned foods, 
the taste becomes perverted, .and as a result, can detect but few 
flavors in food, principally salt, sweet, hitter, and sour. By par- 
taking of simple, natural foods, carefully prepared, and served in 
an appetizing manner, we may so develop the sen^e of taste as 
to find genuine satisfaction in the flavors from the food we are 
eating, as a lover of music does in hearing a star musickl per- 
formance, or as an artist does in seeing some masterpiece in an 
art gallery. 

The process by which meat is made tender (ripe) is nothing 
but partial decomposition. Insidious poisons are thus developed, 
and are added to those present during life. This is not true -of 
foods from the vegetable kingdom. These contain within them- 
selves the very essence of life, manifest in the tiny organ of 
reproduction, and if hidden in the earth, will soon give proof of 
life within, thus assuring us of the purity and freedom from putre- 
faction and poisons of the food that is to build bone and sinew. 

44 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



VEGETARIAN DIET AND ENDURANCE 

The history of nations, as well as the records of athletic con- 
tests, testifies that the vegetarian diet is capable of developing the 
highest degree of strength and endurance. The seemingly in- 
vincible Spartans were an illustration of this fact. The Romans, 
moreover, were vegetarians in the days of their prime ; and their 
degeneracy began when they gave themselves up to the indulgence 

of unrestrained appetite, includ- 
ing the use of flesh and strong 
drink. The fallacy of maintain- 
ing that the vegetarian diet will 
lessen energy is made plain 
when we consider the endurance 
of vegetarians generally. In 
India, China, and Japan there 
are possibly eight hundred mil- 
lion people, strong, active, 
healthy, and long-lived, the 
larger proportion of whom sel- 
dom if ever eat animal flesh. 

The Chinese coolie, though 
not a giant in stature, will draw 
a load of human freight at the 
speed of a horse's trot, for a 
distance of from thirty to forty 
miles at a time ; and his diet con- 
sists of rice, dates, vegetables, 
and rarely a small portion of fish. The Hindu messengers, who 
carry dispatches long distances, day after day, live principally on 
rice. The Irish peasant, who ranks among the most active and ag- 
gressive ol men, subsists chiefly on potatoes, buttermilk, and simple 
cooked vegetables. The native Andean Indian is able to do a day's 
work which for its magnitude is said to be beyond comparison with 
that of our ordinary day laborer, often carrying on his shoulder 
burdens of two hundred pounds weight, day after day; and his food 
is largely bananas and whole meal cereal. The fare of the Russian 

45 





g^>^fe^^^te 


i 


^B^^^^B^y. .s^? 


Ik 


«BHyik¥V 


1. 


hi.. -s^^A 


w' ^ 




^ 


t^ 





A Test of Endurance 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and COOKERY 



peasant is for the greater part black bread, milk, and vegetables; 
yet he often works from sixteen to eighteen hours a day, and his 
strength is not inferior to that of his foreign neighbor. 

With reference to the effect of the vegetarian diet on the 
strength and endurance of animals, we may say that the elephant, 
the strongest animal known; the horse, one of the fleetest; and the 
camel, the most enduring, — all proverbial for their hardiness and 
vitality, — subsist entirely upon natural foods. The vegetarian ox 
will plod on day after day without exhaustion ; but how would 
it be with the flesh-eating lion or tiger? Though these are the 
strongest and most ferocious of the flesh eaters, and would be very 
quick for a fierce fight lasting but a short time, they would soon 
faint if attached to the plow. Anatomy, physiology, and instinct, 
all witness to the fact that man is by nature a fruit-eating creature. 
These expressions from well-known naturalists undoubtedly voice 
the sentiment of most persons who have made a careful study of 
the subject: 

"The natural food of man, judging from his structure, con- 
sists of fruit, roots, and vegetables." — Cuvier. 

"It is vulgar error to regard meat in any form as necessary 
to life." — Sir Henry Thompson. 

"No physiologist would dispute with those who maintain that 
man ought to live on vegetarian diet." — Dr. Spencer Thompson. 

In his article, "To Raise a Family in Whose Arteries the Blood 
Leaps," Mr. Heppe says: 

"An excessive meat diet, while producing, in life's first half, 
extraordinary energy and restless activity, leaves the body a 
used-up empty shell after forty-five. It acts like a furnace with 
a forced draft." 

"Simple fare and correctly prepared foods . . . will keep the 
human body the replica of the divine form. It will not develop 
excessive fat or obnoxious pugnacity, but rather will it leave the 
mind free for the contemplation of life's highest ideals."^ — "Ameri- 
can Cookery," January, 1920. 

46 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



Prize fighters, while in training for mastery in strength, dis- 
card flesh food as material not best suited to the accomplishment 
of their aim, that of developing the greatest possible endurance. 

In the athletic contests that have taken place within the last 
few decades, such as walking, swimming, bicycle riding, arm hold- 
ing, knee bending, leg raising, etc., and which have represented 
the vegetarian on the one hand, and the flesh eater on the other, 
the vegetarians have usually proved easy victors. Perhaps the 
most reliable endurance tests so far recorded, showing the effects 
of diet upon endurance, were made by Irving Fisher, professor of 
political economy, of Yale University, on a large number of men, 
to test the endurance of flesh eaters and flesh abstainers. These 
experiments showed that the vegetarians surpassed, the flesh eaters 
on an average of from 50% to 200%. In summing up the results 
of these and other experiments, Professor Fisher says: 

"These investigations, with those of Combe of Laussanne, 
Metchnikoff and Tissier of Paris, as well as Herter and others 
in the United States, seem gradually to be demonstrating that the 
fancied strength from meat is, like the fancied strength from 
alcohol, an illusion." — "Scientific Nutrition Simplified" page I4p. 

Animal food as a strengthening article of .diet is fast falling 
into the same category with alcohol. The idea sometimes pre- 
sented, that in order to be strong, a person must partake of the 
flesh of a strong ox (without considering the source frorn which the 
ox obtains strength), is akin to the belief of the head-hunter, who 
imagines that by sacrificing a strong man's life and feasting upon 
his heart, he may imbibe the strong man's bravery and strength. 

There were many ancient men of renown who ar& known to 
have been vegetarians. We may mention first of all, Daniel andr-- 
his three companions in Babylon. He requested for himself a 
vegetarian diet in preference to the flesh and wine served from 
the king^aikable. His consequent good health and physical vigor 
made dpiible a great intellect; and at the end of three years, he 
had ten times as much wisdom as the great men of the king's 
realm. (Daniel 1:8-21.) Then we may mention the well-known 

47 




"The fancied strength from meat is, hke the fancied strength from 
alcohol, an illusion." 



names of such men as Plutarch, Tolstoy, Pythagoras, Linnaeus, 
Seneca, Buddha, Plato, the Stoics; and a host of others if time 
and space would permit. 

FLESH EATING A CAUSE OF DISEASE 

There remains but to call attention to the fact that cattle in 
this and other lands suffer to a great extent of malignant diseases, 
such as cancer, tuberculosis, anthrax, foot-and-mouth disease, 
Bright's disease, etc., and that a large proportion of the flesh 
obtained daily through the regular channels and consumed as food, 
is that of animals killed when suffering of one or more of these 
maladies. The prevalence and increase of ulcer of the stomach, 
cancer, Bright's disease, and tuberculosis, undoubtedly bear a close 
relation to the modern excessive use of flesh as food. 

It is customary to sell the flesh of tuberculous animals for 
food, even when portions of the animal are condemned. Quite 
recently, as brought to the writer's notice, a herd of dairy cows 
in a near-by canyon, when subjected to the tuberculin test, gave 
80% reactors; whereupon the whole herd were sold as "feeders," 
and sent to a pasture land to await their turn in supplying beef- 
steak to the unsuspecting public. One housewife, having purchased 

48 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



beef at the counter, upon returning home found the meat so con- 
spicuously full of lumps and spots that she sent it to the inspector. 
After careful examination of the beef in question, he gave the 
following verdict : "There is a certain flmount of tuberculosis in 
the meat, but not more than the law allows." 

If the organs of an animal prove, on examination, to be tuber- 
culous, how can the blood that circulates through these organs be 
pure ? And if the blood is impure, what hope is there that the 
flesh is untainted with disease ? And if the flesh is tainted with 
disease, how can it be fit for human food ? 

Cancer, especially cancer of the stomach, is a disease that 
baffles the skill of the medical profession. The most frequent 
cause of cancer of the stomach is believed to be an irritated mucous 
membrane, or ulcer. It is an undisputable fact, though one not 
generally recognized, that ulcer of the stomach is rife among all 
classes of people who partake largely of flesh food. Upon good 
authority, it is said that ulcer of the stomach is not frequently 
met among peoples who subsist upon rice and vegetables, — for in- 
stance, the Chinese,' the Japanese, and the Indians, — or among 
Asiatics generally; but as has been well expressed, "The zone of 
the ulcer is the meat eater's zone.'' 

President William J. Mayo, in his address before the American 
Surgical Association, April 9, 1914,' on the subject of "The Pro- 
phylaxis of Cancer," said that cancer of the stomach formed nearly 
one third of cancer cases of the human body, and that the ex- 
traordinary frequency of cancer of the stomach was confined to 
civilized man. He stated fur±her,-that within the last one hundred 
years, four times as much meat had been consumed as before 
,that time, and inferred that the. increase in consumption of meat 
undoubtedly had something to do with the prevalence of cancer. 

Julius Rosenberg, M. D., writing for the Medical Record of 
November 27, 1915, said concerning the increase of tuberculosis 
among cattle, and its menace to health : 

"Cattle tuberculosis is rapidly increasing. There is scarcely a 
dairy herd without a number of infected animals. It is an ever 

2 Annals of Surgery, volume 69, No. 6. 

49 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancf COOKERY 



growing menace. A conservative estimate places the number of 
cows dying yearly from tuberculosis at one million, were they 
permitted to die a natural death; but they are killed before draw- 
ing the last gasp, and served as prime beef." 

ETHICS OF FLESH EATING 

The use of flesh as food cannot fail to have its effect upon the 
work of evangelizing and uplifting mankind. The success of re- 
ligious work depends largely upon the spiritual tone of the people. 
While all that is carnal in human beings is fostered and fed by 
the consumption of the flesh and blood of animals, the work of 
the gospel will be hindered to that extent. Those who are laboring 
to lead men to a higher state of spiritual experience should be 
doubly careful in regard to their own habits in the matter of flesh 
eating; and professed Christians generally should consider its 
effect upon their lives and influence. 

Spiritual weakness and depression often have a purely physical 
cause. It is of little use to tell a man about salvation from bad 
temper unless you tell him some method of deliverance from the 
clogged and sluggish liver that is the cause of the bad temper. 
There is little hope of reforming a drunkard by spiritual means 
only, while he is feeding his craving for liquor by eating flesh 
and other stimulants; but if he abandons this custom, and adopts^ 
a diet of natural arid wholesome foods, there is abundance of hope 
that his deliverance will eventually be accomplished. 

History, observation, and experience all go to prove that the 
strengthening of that which is carnal within us, does not promote 
our moral and spiritual well-being. That animal food inflames the 
passions, and arouses all that is pugnacious and cruel, both in men 
and in animals, when they are fed upon it, is well understood. 
The founders of various religious orders, and saints, prophets, and 
reformers in all ages, have recognized this fact, arid have en- 
dorsed it. 

Wherever flesh eating is most prevalent, drunkenness exists to 
a proportionate degree. The use of meat inflames the mucous coat 
of the stomach, and thus produces irritation of the nervous system, 

so 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



which results in a craving for stimulation, and is known to be a 
predisposing cause of drunkenness. Physicians and prominent 
temperance workers have realized this, as they find that nearly 
all vegetarians are abstainers from choice, and that scarcely a 
vegetarian drunkard can be found. Throughout the Holy Scrip- 
tures, the eating of flesh and the drinking of wine are often asso- 
ciated together." 

As a result of the stimulating qualities of meats, persons who 
partake of animal foods, often feel a craving for food soon after 
a meal. Such a craving, being generally interpreted as hunger, may 
be regarded as one of the principal causes of overeating, which is 
one of the most prevalent as well as the most harmful of dietetic 
indiscretions. Meat eaters, therefore, are found to partake of more 
meals a day than do vegetarians. Among the millions of Asiatics, 
a quite general rule is said to be two meals a day, and often only 
one; whereas in countries where meat eating fs prevalent, "three 
square meals" a day may be considered the minimum, while four 
or five a day are common. 

CRUELTY OF FLESH EATING 

There is another aspect of the subject which deseryes the 
earnest and thoughtful consideration of Christians, from the 
standpoint of humanitarian, principle. It must be admitted that 
the custom of eating flesh involves the infliction of an incalculable^- 
amount of suffering upon millions of God's helpless creatures. 
Such wholesale procedure in the taking of animal life is wholly 
unjustifiable, except on the ground of absolute necessity. As this 
necessity does not exist, the practice of these cruelties appears to 
be a violation of Christian principle, that of showing mercy to 
the defenseless. Any person who would vi^it a real slaughter- 
house, and watch the tragedies enacted daily, upon cattle, sheep, 
and hogs, could but be moved with horror at the cold-blooded, 
businesslike cruelty. 

By those who prize the development of a Christlike character, 
who aspire to reach the best and noblest that is possible to man, it 

'Isaiah 22:12, 13; Proverbs 23:20. 

SI 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



IP- 



should be borne in mind that the path of self-denial, trodden for 
conscience' sake, is the most direct route to the accomplishment 
of that purpose; that the laws of our physical being demand our^ 
reverence as truly as the law given on Mount Sinai; and that 
perfect love is incompatible with the perpetration of unneces- 
sary cruelty. 

Vegetarianism is not a fad. It is a great system of diet, based 
on scientific principles, and when adopted, insures a clearness of 
mind and a restfulness of spirit which make for renewed strength 
and a fitness for life's duties.. It is full of promise for bettering 
the spiritual, physical, and economic conditions of both men 
and nations. 





V. BALANCING THE FOOD 

"Of right choice of food are his meals, I ween." 

Latent energy is just as surely found in foods as in wood 
and coal. Like them, foods are only waiting to be oxidized that 
they may be converted into heat and energy. The fuel' value of 
foods is expressed in heat units. This is determined, by their 
oxidation outside the body in the apparatus known as the bomb* 
calorimeter. 

The calorie is the unit measure of heat used to denote the 
energy-giving power of food, and is equivalent to the 'amount of 
heat necessary to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water 
one degree centigrade, or about one pint of water four degrees 
Fahrenheit. The following general estimate has been made for 
the energy furnished to the body by one gram of each of the 
different classes of nutrients: ' 

I gram* protein yields 4 calories of fuel value. 

I gram carbohydrate yields 4 calories of fuel value. 

J gram of fat yields 9 calories of fuel value. 

— BvXUtm No, 14s, United States Department of Agriculture. 

By the figures at the right of the chart is represented the total 
number of calories, or food units, contained in one pound of the 
various foods under consideration, the building material (protein) 
being represented by the diagonal lines, the fats by the dotted 
space, and the carbohydrates by the crosshatchitlg. 



^28.3 grams equal 1 ounce. 



53 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



From this chart, it will be seen that the most abundant element 
of grains, legumes, fruits, and vegetables is carbohydrate, while 
fats predominate in the nuts, protein also being large; and that 
protein is the chief element in animal flesh, fish, and eggs, there 
being no carbohydrate at all in these. The carbohydrate of milk 
consists of milk sugar, no starch being present. 

Careful experiments have demonstrated that the body is best 
sustained in health, strength, and endurance by a diet containing 
a proportion of about one ounce of protein to nine ounces of carbo- 
hydrate arid fat. In an approximate day's ration of 3,000 calories, 
10%, or about 300 calories, should be protein. The remjainder; 
or 90%, may be divided, according to individual need or personal 
preference, between carbohydrates and fats, provided some of each 
is used. About 25% of fat and 65% of carbohydrate is consid- 
ered a good proportion. As to the protein requirement in a day's 
ration, a well recognized authority on the subject has the follow- 
ing to say: 

"Foods should be so selected as to give the ration the right 
amount of protein, or repair foods, on the one hand, and of fats 
and carbohydrates, or fuel foods, on the other. A certain amount 

of protein is absolutely essential The right proportion of 

protein has been the subject of much controversy. According to 
what are regarded as the best investigations, it is generally about 
10% of the total number of heat units consumed. This does not, 
of course, mean 10% of the total weight, nor 10% of the total 
bulk, but 10% of the total nutriment; that is, ten calories of 
protein out of every one hundred calories of food. 

"Most persons in America eat much more protein than this. 
But that ten calories out of every one hundred is not too small 
an allowance is evidenced by the analysis of human milk. The 
growing infant needs the maximum proportion of protein. . . . 
Consequently an analysis of human mothers' milk affords a clue 
to the maximum protein suitable for human beings. Of this milk, 
seven calories out of every one hundred calories are protein. If 
all protein were as thorouighly utilized as milk protein or meat 
protein, seven calories out of one hundred would be ample; but 

S4 



FOOD VALUES 

_ . JNitrogenous PROTEIN Tissue-forming Substances 

°'^''"nNon.ni.rogenous{CARBO™DRATES}^^^,^„,^„^^ 

Inorganic Salts — Mineral Matters, Water 
Min. Matter Water Protein Fat« Carbohydrate 

■■i I I ^M [5^f^ ^m 

10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

I11MI II IllIIIIHiIhiiii III li mi Hull Imii..i.l.i. 1 1 > ■ ■ i i i i ■ | . i i n . . . i I . . ■ i 



TOTAL 
Food Unit! 




ss 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancf COOKERY 



all vegetable proteins are not so completely available. Making 
proper allowance for this fact, we reach the conclusion that ten 
calories out of every one hundred are sufficient." — "How to Live," 
by Professor Irving Fisher and Lyman Fisk, pages j6, 38. 

The fact that protein is absolutely essential for the growth and 
repair of the body — there being no other food principle that can 
take its place in furnishing muscle-building material — has a tend- 
ency to lead people to believe that they might be benefited by the 
consumption of large quantities of protein foods, when the fact 
is that the body can use but a limited amount for the development 
and repair of tissue. 

Proteins cannot be stored up in, the body for future use, as can 
the carbohydrates and the fats; therefore any excess- of protein 
must be eUminated, at great expense to the vitality of the system. 
Flesh meat is very high in protein, and contains.no carbohydrate. 
Notwithstanding this, many persons have been accustomed to look 
upon flesh meat as the backbone of the meal, thus increasing the 
danger from excess of nitrogenous material. In the vegetable 
kingdom, the food elements are so combined that the protein aver- 
age is low. In other words, when we combine the nutritious grains 
with the bulky vegetables, or the juicy fruits with the concentrated 
pecan or walnut, the diet is already balanced. 

Although protein, when oxidized in the body, is capable of 
yielding a certain amount of heat, it is inferior for this purpose 
to carbohydrates and fats, because, on being burned in the body, 
it also yields certain deleterious products, which throw upon the 
liver and the kidneys an unnecessary amount of labor, thus weak- 
ening them and rendering them more susceptible, to the attacks 
of disease. Many of the ailments so prevalent to-day, such as 
rheumatism, gout, gastrointestinal disturbances, indigestion, and 
liver troubles, have been found to be closely associated with the 
habitual overeating of protein foods. 

We would not, however, recommend the measuring and weigh- 
ing of the foods eaten, in order to be sure of exact proportions. 
If natural, unprocessed foods, containing all their mineral salts 
and essential vitamines, are eaten intelligently, with regularity in 
meals, the calories will take care of themselves. 

56 



VI. 
FOOD ECONOMICS 





"Economy is not saving but 
wisely spending." — Ruskin. 



The problem of securing proper nutriment for the family 
board, and securing it at a minimum cost, is one of constantly 
growing importance, not only because of the rise in prices of all 
classes of foodstuffs, but because more and more we are coming 
to realize that a healthy body is man's greatest asset. How, then, 
to satisfy the physical needs, and furnish a ration that shall be 
palatable, digestible, liberal in quantity, and still come within the 
purchasing power of the family, is a most important problem 
of economy. 

Aside from the inherent value of the more watery foods, such 
as fruits, vegetables, etc., due to their richness in mineral salts, 
vitamines, and essential oils, it must be considered that the eco- 
nomic value of a food depends largely upon its capacity for 
producing energy; hence the need of a practical knowledge of 
food values. When one realizes that the market price of a food 
is no indication of its food value, the importance of such knowl- 
edge is more keenly appreciated. The most expensive food is not 
necessarily the most nutritious. True economy contemplates not 
only the cheapness of the food purchased, but also its adaptation. 

It aims at supplying a diet that furnishes all the elements of 
nutrition at a minimum cost, with due recognition of the aesthetic 
qualities. The ideal is found in many of the simple foods at hand 
every day, as for instance the grains and the grain products, in- 
cluding whole meal bread, com meal, natural rice, macaroni, etc.; 
also in legumes, as dried peas, beans, lentils, etc. ; in the immature 
green vegetables, as corn, peas, string beans, and the like. Add 
to these the various dairy products, — milk, cream, eggs, etc., — 

57 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and COOKERY 



and there is a large variety from which to choose a diet of non- 
irritating and easily digested foods, which take the lead as a source 
of nourishment, both from the economic and also from the health 
point of view. 

By comparison of the chemical analyses of various foods bought 
for a particular sum, this truth becomes self-evident. We find that 
50 cent« spent for round steak (lean), at 30 cents a pound, gives 
food to the value of 1,116 food units; 50 cents invested in salmon 
trout, at 40 cents a pound, buys 481 units; spent for oysters, at 
60 cents a quart, it yields only 383 units. The same amount for 
potatoes, at 5 cents a pound, obtains 3,100 units; spent for corn 
meal, at 8 cents a pound, it obtains 10,346 units; the same for 
wheat flour, at g cents a pound, buys 9,213 units; and in the form 
of well baked bread, ready for use, 5,700 units. In the face of 
these figures, may we not well stop, and consider what we shall 
buy for the family board? 

Protein, being the most costly of the food elements, is the one 
often lacking in inexpensive meals, although generally used to 
excess by those who can afford it. Skim milk, with its products, 
is one of the cheapest sources of protein at the present ^ time. 
Practically all of the protein, sugar, and mineral contained in 
milk, is found in that part which remains after the cream has 
been removed. When made into cottage cheese, each gallon of 
such milk should furnish about one and a half pounds of cottage 
cheese. In each pound of cottage cheese there is about one fifth 
pound of protein, nearly all of which is digestible. According to 
the Bulletin of the Los Angeles Department of Health, June, 1917, 
cottage cheese is much cheaper than most meats in furnishing 
protein; for we are told that as a source of protein, one pound 
of cottage cheese equals : 

1.27 pounds of sirloin steak 1.09 pounds of round steak 

1.31 pounds leg of lamb 1.52 pounds of fowl 

1-37. pounds breast of veal 1.58 pounds loin of pork 

For supplying excessive amounts of protein, the soy bean 
takes the lead among vegetable foods, containing about twice the 
per cent found in round steak. Peas, all beans, and lentils like- 

S8 




COMPARATIVE FOOD VALUES 

Calories of Protein and Total Calories Obtainable for 50 Cents 

in Some General Articles of Diet 

SOcwiUbuy Calories Total 

Articlea (As Purchased) Price Pounds Protein Calories 

Corn Meal (granular) 8c a lb. 6^ 1,039 10,346 

Qatmeal loc a lb. s 1,455 9>300 

Flour (entire wheat) gc a lb. 5J^ 1,372 9,213 

Beans (dried brown) loc a lb. 5 i,g8o 8,375 

Bread (whole wheat) iSc a loaf s 876 S,7oo 

Macaroni iSc a lb. 3^ 807 5,550 

Peas (dried) ....: 15c a lb. sYs 1,483 5,517 

Rice ....- ISC a lb. 3H. 482 5.433 

Crackers (Graham) 20c a lb. 2^ 452 4,888 

Potatoes 5c a lb. 10 325 3,100 

Raisiils 25c a fb. 2 83 2,890 

Butter 75c a lb. f^ 12 2,403 

Prunes (dried) 2Sc a llx 2 65 2,380 

Milk ISC a qt. 65^ 395 2,153 

Almonds 40c a lb. ij4- 260 2,075 

Apples loc a lb. s 27 1,100 

Beef (round, lean) 30c a lb. lYs S^o i."6 

Eggs 6oc a doz. i + 224 661 

Salmon Trout 40c a lb. i}i 206 481 

Oysters (solids) 60c a qt. iVs 181 383 




S9 




Counting the Sheep 

wise are very high in protein ; also most of the nuts. These heavy 
foods should be used with caution, especially during the spring 
and summer months, when well baked cereal breads and green 
garden products constitute the ideal diet. 

That the use of meat is poor economy is shown by the fact 
that the practice of raising and feeding animals for human food 
is extravagant, both in the amount of land needed for pasturage, 
and in the labor required for herding, stabling, care, transporta- 
tion, etc. As a comparison between the productive power of land 
under pasturage and under the plow, the following statistics and 
comment from an eminent authority are given :^ 

100 acres devoted to sheep raising would support 42 men : proportion, i 
100 acres devoted to dairy farming would support 53 men; proportion, 114 
100 acres devoted to wheat would support 250 men : proportion, 6 
100 acres devoted to potatoes would support 683 men : proportion, 16 

Mr. Powell states further: "If only 20,000,000 of the 35,000,000 
acres now devoted to grazing in the British Isles were brought 
under wheat, then at a moderate estimate the wheat so produced 
would support 40,000,000 people. The British Isles could there- 
fore produce sufficient food to support the whole population, if 
the latter were vegetarians instead of flesh eaters." 



^ "Food and Health," by A. E. Powell, lieutenant Royal Engineers, quoting Dr. Francis 
Newman, professor of University College, London, England. 

60 



vn. 

COOKERY AND FOOD 
PREPARATION 



"Food well cooked is 
partially digested." 




Cooking is the application of heat to foods, to render them 
more digestible and, better fitted to nourish the system. There are 
comparatively few foods that are at their best when taken in their 
raw state. They neither taste so good nor are so easily digested 
as when subjected to some kind of cooking. 

The nutritive value of many, foods depends upon how they are 
cooked. Many articles that, owing to their chemical condition or 
other cause, are unfit for nourishment 'when raw, are very nutri- 
tious when cooked. The direct application of heat changes the 
taste, odor, and digestibility of nearly all foods, and changes the 
food elements (with the exception of fats) in much the same way 
as do the digestive juices. Many inexpensive articles and "left 
overs," if carefully prepared and attractively served, are just as 
appetizing as the more expensive foods, and aFe usually quite 
as nutritious. 

OBJECTS SOUGHT IN COOKING 

There are three chief objects sought in cooking. The first is 
to charige the mechanical condition of food so as to make it more 
digestible. The second is to develop its flavors, thus conserving 
its nourishment and making it more; palatable and inviting. The 
third is to kill, by heat, any disease germs, parasites, or other dan- 
ger>Dus organisms it may contain. 

Boiled starch is soluble, and is acted upon by the saUva in 
mastication, which changes it to dextrin. This process is for- 
warded by the organs of digestion to maltose, dextrose, blood, etc. 
Raw starch is insoluble, arid, is not acted upon by the saliva, and 
only in small quantities by the intestinal fluids. So in order for 

6i 
9 



SCIENCE of FOOD amC COOKERY ^^ ^ 



man to appropriate it, the woody envelope that incloses the starch 
granule must be broken, by being subjected to dry or moist heat, 
as illustrated in the following cuts. 

Changes of Starch Cells in Cooking 





Cells of raw potato, showing the un- Cells of thoroughly boiled potato, with 

ruptured starch grains and cellulose cellulose framework broken down, and 

framework intact. ^ ~, the, starch grains a mass. ■ 

— Ado.'pted from Farmers* Bulletin No, 295^. United States 
Department of Agriculture. 

When put into boiling water, the cellulose surrounding the 
starch grains breaks, setting free the granulose, which takes up 
the water, forming a thick, transparent mass. Water has little 
effect on starch granules until this cellulose covering has been? 
thus broken. The softening and rupture of the cellulose frame- 
work of vegetable cells, allowing the Starch grains to become 
jelly-like, is one of the chief aims sought in the cooking of 
vegetable foods. 

Ripe fruits, on the other hand, have been virtually cooked on 
the tree, and are best when eaten thus, without being subjected 
to artificial heat. The' carbohydrate of fruit in its unripe state 
is in the form of raw starch. As the fruit ripens, this starch is 
changed to sugar, and is practically ready to be absorbed by the 
digestive organs. The same is true of tomato. Thus no cooking 
is required for ripe fruits, except to preserve them for future use, 

62 




SCIENCE q/" FOOD and COOKERY 



by canning, etc. It is witli starch that cooking has most to do, as 
starch in its raw state cannot be iitilized by the body, and it is 
the most abundant of all food elements. 

In the second object, development of food flavors, the preser- 
vation of the mineral salts and vitdmihes is of paramount impor- 
tance. The manner in which fresh vegetables are often cooked 
deprives them of a large part of these essential constituents, and* 
thus robs them of their characteristic flavors. This has special ref- 
erence to the boiling of vegetables , in water, throwing the water 
away, and then serving up the more or less insipid residue. 

When tea was first introduced intq England, a certain peddler 
(so the story is told) called at a farmer's house and sold half a 
pound of tea to the wife. About a month later he called to, ask 
her how she liked it. She told him they did not like it at all. 
Then he asked her how she had prepared it. She said she had 
boiled it like cabbage and had thrown the water away, but that 
they "could not eat the stuff!" All very good, perhaps, in the 
case of tea; but unfortunately, many people treat vegetables in 
the same way. The important- inorganic salts and mineral sub- 
stances so abundant in fresh vegetables are more or less drawn 
out iipto the water in which the vegetables are copked. When this 
is thrown away, a most valuable part of the food is wasted. The 
same treatment is often given to cereals and legumes; aft.er being 
boiled in a large quantity of water, they are drained, and the 
water is allowed to run down the drain pipe of the sink. 

For this same reason, the potato is far more nutritious if baked, 
or boiled in the skins. The carrOt, when scraped, sliced thin, and 
allowed to simmer until the liquid is mostly evaporated, will have 
a delicate yellowish color and pleasant flavor, with its salts and 
minerals conserved. 

Most of the supculent vegetables are best when steamed, or 
cooked in only sufficient water to make them tender; and the 
remaining liquid should be regarded as the most essential part of 
the food. When vegetables are thus cooked conservatively — that 
is, in such a way as to retain their juices — they possess a far 
richer flavor than when deprived of their juices by swimming in 

63 



' ■■• ' V' 




64 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD amf COOKERY 



a large quantity of \^ater. To this rule, there are a few exceptions. 
Old cabbage, for instance, is likely to have a strong flavor and a 
dark color if cooked by this method; but if the leaves are pulled 
apart and then dropped into deep boiling water, they will retain 
their delicate green color and will have a mild flavor in contrast 
to the dark color and strong flavor that result when it is cooked 
in compact form or in large pieces. When cabbage is very, tender 
and crisp, if shredded fine, it may be cooked in a covered vessel, 
with the addition of a little vegetable butter, and no water, the 
vessel being covered, and the cabbage stirred often. The moisture 
in the vegetable is sufficient. 

During the cooking of greeji vegetables, such as new peas, 
string beans, etc., the cover -should be drawn a little to one side 
of the stewpan or kettle, so as to allow the escape of the steam, 
which is laden with volatile liodies that will, if retained,, impart 
to the vegetable a strong flavor and a dark cplor. 

Mustard greens, beet and turnip tops, spinach, etc., after being 
washed in several waters to remove grit,' should be put to cook 
in deep boiling water with the cover off. The reason why greens, 
especially those well grown, require more water in the cooking 
than ordinary succulent vegetables, is that in growing for some 
time exposed to the sun, they develop a bitter flavor, and this is 
largely extracted by this manner of cooking. When spinach is 
very tender, it may be cooked with no additional water beyond 
that remaining on the leaves after washing. During the cooking,, 
it should be turned over occasionally with a fork or a spoon, the 
saucepan being covered, to inclose the steam. It will require but 
a few minutes' cooking. SerVe without chopping. , 

Fresh vegetables should be thoroughly cooked,"' but the cooking 
should stop when the vegetable is yet firm. Overcooking toughferis 
the texture of vegetable foods, destroys the coloring matters, and 
injures the mineral bodies that contribute to their flavor and nutri- 
ment. Vegetables should be allowed to boil slowly during thfe 
cooking process, as rapid boiling tends to chip ofif the surface of 
the food, making it less palatable, and causing a loss in nutriment. 
Rapid boiling hardens some foods ; for instance, green corn, which 

6s 





SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



should be pUt into boiling water, brought to tfie, boiling point; and 
then drawn to the side of the stove for twenty minutes. 

A most valuable form of vegetable food is raw green stufiF, 
containing the organic salts unchanged by heating. This includes 
such foods as lettuce, water cress, celery, cabbage, radishes, cu- 
cumbers, and ground, chopped, or diced raw vegetable salads. In 
these, the cellulose is best when eaten crisp; and their mineral 
salts, largely lost in cooking, are preserved. ' 

The third object of cooking is the destruction of disease germs 
or other dangerous organisms that may be present. Vegetables 
and some fruits may become contaminated with the eggs of para- 
sites from fertilizers applied to them. Hence; raw fruits and 
vegetables' should always be thoroughly washed before- they are 
served, if there is any doubt as to their cleanliness. 

The bacteria of typhoid fever Sometimes find their way into 
drinking water, and those of typhoid and diphtheria into milk, 
bringing disease and death to many. Thus food and drink may 
become dangerous purveyors of disease. When food and drink 
are sufficiently heated in cooking, all organisms are killed. 




66 




VIII. 
PRINCIPLES OF SUCCESSFUL COOKERY 

"Civilized man cannot live without cooks." 

The two fundamental principles of successful cookery are : first, 
simplicity; second, appetizing serving. The meaning of simplicity 
in this connection is, to conserve and develop the natural flavors of 
the particular food vmder hand,' and not to confuse it with so many 
foreign substances as to make the whole a nameless mixture. 

The Creator has placed in each food certain delicate flavors and 
attractive colors, which may be preserved in the food by proper 
cooking. A great lack of judgment is often observed in the way 
different foods are mixed together without regard to the effect 
of the flavor of one food- upon the other; likewise in the addition 
of large quantities of strong flavored substances, such as bay leaf, 
sage, thyme, and onion, to foods- of delicate flaVor, whereby the 
identity of the food is largely lost. 

A sprinkle of onion flavor with the potato, in making potato 
soup, adds greatly to its palatability ; but a little top much onion 
will so cover up the delicate flavor of the potato as to make the 
soup a disappointment. Cream aijd tomato combined make a very 
palatable and nourishing soup, and the combination is agreeable. 
By the addition of fried bones, onion, and spices, however^ the 
tomato flavor is so predominated by the stronger flavors as to make 

67 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



the soup a sort of nondescript^ and consequently not in harmony 
with that simplicity in cookery which specializes en the develop- 
ment and conservation of those delicate flavors in food which afe 
really satisfying to the natural taste. 

The close affinity that exists between coloring matter in vege- 
table foods and their flavors,, precludes any thought of retaining 
the one without the presence of the other. In order that the green 
color in fresh vegetables may be preserved, they should be put to 
cook in boiling water; for this seals up the cells, as it were, and 
prevents the escape of much of the valuable salts and coloring 
matter. And the water should be kept boiling continuously until 
the food is done. Cold water, when added to fresh vegetables in 
cooking, extracts both color and flavor from the food, leaving it 
more or less insipid' to the taste. Exception is made in the making 
of soups and vegetable stews, where the object is to extract the 
flavors into the broth or the gravy. 

The second factor in successful cookery is appetizing serving. 
Palatability is one of the first essentials in nutrition. No matter 
how wholesome the food may be, one must relish it in order to 
be fully benefited thereby. The meals should be made to please 
not only the sense of taste, but all the senses if possible. While 
it is unwise to use harmful and highly seasoned foods, we must 
refognize the need of providing foods that pleas6 the sense of 
taste, sight, and smell, as these all have a very direct bearing upon 
the digestion of food. _ , 

It is a well established fact that all the juices which aid the 
digestive processes are called forth at sight of food that is appe- 
tizingly and attractively served. The simple garnitures which all 
may employ, — a sprig of green, a friendly flower, contrast in 
color and design, — and care to provide clean linen and appropriate 
dishes for serving, will greatly enhance the pleasure of the children 
and the grown-ups at the family board. 

God has provided for our eyes fruits and flowers in the most 
attractive designs and colors. The wonderful hues and tints of 
the fruits that are "good for food" tempt us to enjoy their delight- 
ful flavors. If, however, foods are served with spots of bruise in 

68 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



evidence, or revealing rough, untrimmed surfaces, or in cracked 
fishes, or otherwise ■ out of harmony, wherein lies the inducement 
to partake of and appropiriate these foods' to the needs of the body ? 

"God saw everything that He had made, and, behold, it was 
.very good." Genesis i : 31. His injunction to us, "Eat ye that 
which is good," calls our attention to the reason as well. We are 
made of that which we eat. Our food becomes our lif^blood. It 
should therefore be pure and palatable. It should be served at- 
tractively, that it may best offer to the human body the nutrition 
its elements contain. 

Hence there is the utmost need that sufficient time be given to 
the preparation and careful service of the daily food, since this 
is to become the life of these human temples God has given. 

PRACTICAL HINTS 

Careful planning, so as to avoid wastage, is one of the first 
steps in the attainment of successful household management. It 
has been estimated that from 15% to 20% of all foods going into 
American kitchens is wasted. A few suggestions as to how the 
housewife may avoid a needless waste of food material in its care 
/ and preparation may be of interest. 

In the first place, there should be care in the outlay, with free- 
dom from extravagance. Plan the meals from a select variety of 
only a few kinds of food, avoiding a large array of hearty anjd 
more expensive foods, which are not needed, and a great deal of 
which would be left over at the end of the meal. Preference 
should be given to the simpler and more inexpensive yet whole- 
some foods that are at hand every day. 

All foods left over should be reheated before there is the first 
sign of spoiling. Many foods gain richness in reheating. No food 
should be left adhering to the kettles in which they were cooked. 
All fragments should be carefully saved and utilizedf 

Unbolted corn meal for bread and porridge requires less fat 
and sweetening than the commercially prepared meal, and is far 
more tasty and nutritious. Cracked wheat arid natural brown rice 
are excellent breakfast cereals, and should supplant the white, de- 

69 ■ 




vitamined foods commonly used, which are not adapted to the 
making of healthy blood and tissue. 

Vegetables should not be pared too thickly. Neither should 
the water from cooked vegetables be thrown away ; it contains 
valuable salts, and should be saved, as it may be used for various 
purposes. Rice cooked in spinach water or other vegetable broth, 
and seasoned with a little butter and salt, is excellent. 

An admirable plan is to keep a soup pot into which clean potato 
parings, carrot, turnip, and beet tops, cabbage, lettuce, and other 
odds and ends of vegetables which are usually thrown away, may 
be put and allowed to simmer on a slow fire for a number of 
hours. Most of the salts will in this way be extracted and may 
be served up as soup, or as the foundation of various soups and 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



gravies. Such soups and sauces will be found palatable, and 
are certainly of great dietetic value on account of their richness 
in salts. 

Beets, if cooked the day before they are used, will have far 
better color than when cooked fresh and served immediately. The 
water from beet greens, if cooked down until almost thick, is 
excellent for coloring vegetable , soups and 'gravies. Red onion 
skips, while they have scarcely any flavor, are rich in coloring 
matter, and give a nice brown color to soups or gravies, and 
should be kept in a glas§ jar for use as needed. 

Letttice and celery may be kept by first Wrapping them in dry 
paper, then wringing another paper or cloth out of water and, 
wrapping it around the outside, and keeping in a dark place. 

Bread crusts should not be left to accumulate for too long a 
time, but should be used for making an entree, or simple pudding 
with raisins; or they may be put into the warming oyen and 
thoroughly dried, ground through a food mill, and kept for va- 
rious uses. 

Thought should be given to the purchase and care of perishable 
foods. Overripe fruit, if purchased at all, should be used irnme- 
diately. Raw fruit kept in store should be examined often for the 
purpose of discarding any that may have begun to decay. Lemons 
should be wrapped, or laid on a shelf, space being left between, 
that they may not so readily mold. • 

The successful housewife appreciates ihe value of quality, and 
consequently does not depend on _ the telephone when laying in 
supplies, but insists on observing the Old rule of "Caveat . emptor" 
(Let the buyer beware), thus being better able to keep the service 
at the table up to par, and the expenses dawn, 

Lastly, '"preach the gospel of the clean plate." Persons differ 
in their tastes and capacity for food ; therefore too large a portion 
should not be served at the first serving, otherwise, .good food 
which might have been saved finds its way into the garbage can. 
Moderate portions, with a second serving if desired, are always 
in good taste. 



71 




IX. FOOD COMBINATIONS 

"The stomach crammed from every dish 
Of roast and fowl, and flesh and fish. 
Where wind.. and- phlegm and acid jar, 
And all the man is one intestine war. 
Longs oft the schoolboy's simple fare, 
The restful sleep, and spirits light as air." 




When we learn that health and strength come to us from the 
food digested, rather than from the amount eaten, more attention 
will be given .to the quantity and quality taken, and the harmonious 
agreement of foods one with the other. The body must receive 
its due share of growth and repair foods, the proteins ; there must 
be the proper proportion of carbohydrates and fat^ producers of 
heat and energy; blended with these, there must be such' mineral 
• matters as are necessary for the building and repair of the bones 
and the teeth, and a proper, bulk to stimulate active elimination.! 

Not only does, the body need all these elements, but for perfect 
health, they must be taken into the stomach in right chemical com- 
binations. One may as well expect a wolf and a lamb to lie down 
together. in peace, as to put warring food elements into the stomach 
and look for rest and the blessings of peace. Many a person who 
thinks that a certain food does not agree with him, may find that 
the trouble is not with the food, but in the fact that the foods 
eaten have disagreed with one aflother. Many foods which in 
themselves are good, may become actually poisonous if mixed 
indiscriminately with a number' of other foods, and produce 
fermentation, - gas, and other ills, leading to more or less serious 
consequences. • 

W. O. Atwater, Ph. D., nutrition expert of the experiment 
station, . Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, writes to 
the point, as follows: 

"How much harm- is done by the injurious compounds 'some- 
times formed from ordinary wholesome foods is seldom realized. 
Physiological chemistry is revealing the fact that these compounds 
may affect even the brain and nerves, and that some forms of 
insanity .are caused by products formed by the abnormal transfor- 
mations of food and body material." — Farmers' Bulletin, No. 142. 

Many a fond mother praying for the health and happiness of 
her children, may take the issue 'out of God's hand, so to speak, 

72 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD <md COOKERY 



by unthinkingly permitting the indulgence of capricious appetite, 
which sows the seeds of ill health, with the misery and life failure 
that must inevitably follow. Many a woman, perhaps devoted to 
the cause of temperance, is unwittingly a party to the manufacture 
of alcohol in one of its m.ost mischievous forms, at her own table. . 

The truth of it is, though often forgotten or not understood, 
that to put a random blending of fruits, vegetables, starches, and 
sweets into the warm confines of the stomach, causes them to 
ferment and develop alcohol there, no less than in the brewer's 
vat. The effect upon the body is similar to that upon' the brain 
when distilled liquor is taken; the drunken cells are unable to 
perform their proper functions, and auto-intoxication is produced, 
often 'eading to various forms of disease. ' 

As a usual thing, the simpler the meal, the better it is for the 
health. A few dishes, each perfect of its kind, and all in harmony, 
are far better than the serving of many courses, with the menace 
of a superfluous quantity. Dr. Alexander Haig says on this point, 
"/ may say also, that simple food of not more than two or three 
kinds at one meal is another secret of health." — "Diet and Food," 
page 89. 

GOOD COMBINATIONS OF FOODS 

Cereals combine well with all other foods. 
Nuts combine well with all other foods. 
Eggs combine well with all other foods. 
Fruits combine well with cereals and nuts. 
Vegetables combine well with cereals and nuts. 
Milk combines well with cereals. 

POOR COMBINATIONS OF FOOD 

Acids and starches mixed before mastication. 
Fruits and vegetables, especially the coarser kinds of vegetables. 
Sugar and milk together in excess. 
"Foods cooked (soaked) in fats. 

ACIDS AND STARCHES 

While fruits and cereals combine well when taken at the same 
meal, a careful study of the physiology of digestion shows the 

73 




SCIENCE of FOOD amf COOKERY 



wisdom of submitting all starchy foods to thorough mouth treat- 
ment before they are mixed with acids of any kind. Starches are 
dependent upon the action of saliva for their proper digestion. 
There are threie sets of glands which secrete saliva, — the sub- 
lingual, the submaxillary, and the parotid. The first two sets are 
under the tongue, at the sides and in front, and they serve to keep 
the mouth moist, but are said to be of little aid in the digestion 
of starches. The third, or parotid gland is just below and in front 
of the ears, and contains the serous secretion in which we find the 
ptyalin that acts upon starches. When starchy food is chewed, this 
secretion flows freely, unless acid is mixed with it, in which case 
this part of the digestion is interfered with. A strong acid reaction 
retards or prevents the action of ptyalin on starches. Hence it 
would seem best not to mix them with acid, or with acid fruits, 
before mastjcation. 

The following is from a well-known authoritative text on 
physiology : 

"The most marked influence [in retarding starch digestion] is 
exerted by acids. Free hydrochloric acid to 'the extent of only 
0.003% (Chittenden) is sufficient to stop the amylolytic action of 
the enzyme (the converting of starch into sugar), and a slight fur- 
ther increase in acidity not only stops the action, but also destroys 
the enzyme." — "Howell's Physiology," sixth edition, page /d/. 

It should be remembered in this connection, however, that "free 
hydrochloric acid" is an inorganic acid, and consequently much 
stronger than the organic acids found in fruits. Nevertheless, 
when fruit juices are mixed with soluble starches (cereals cooked 
in water or steam) in the same manner as milk is used with them, 
they tend to interfere with the ptyalin, and fermentation quite 
naturally results. 

A question often arises in regard to the (Rooking of certain 
starchy foods and acids together, as in Spanish rice, fruit toast, 
macaroni in tomato, lemon pie' etc. Biit this procedure is justi- 
fiable when, these dishes are properly compounded. The rice for 
this entree is to be cooked to a light brown over a dry heat before 
•it' is added to the tomato sauce, and this partially changes the 

74 ' 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



starch of the rice to dextrin before it is brought into contact 
with the acid. Likewise in the malking of fruit toast, zwieback, 
or bread twice baked, is used, and thus the starch is partially 
predigested before it is mixed with acid. 

As to the use of macaroni in tomato, and of starch in the 
making of lemon pie, it will be recognized that these dishes, to 
be palatable, require a moderate proportion of fat; and the rich 
sauce on the macaroni, and the free fat added, to the lemon pie, 
serve to neutralize the acid effect, in the same manner as cream 
neutralizes the action of the acid of tomato in cream of tomato 
soup. Fats, moreover, tend to lessen the secretion of hydrochloric 
acid in the stomach; and for this reason, persons who cannot tol- 
erate the acid of fresh or stewed tomato, often experience no 
trouble whatever in taking it in the form of cream soup. 

When soluble starches are thoroughly mixed with saliva, their 
digestion continues for a length of time after the food enters the 
stomach. The acid from the glands of the stomach penetrates the 
mass of food only gradually ; but when the contents of the stomach 
have become acidified, starch digestion ceases there. This empha- 
sizes the need of thorough mouth treatment of all starchy foods, in 
order that they may be properly acted upon by the ptyalin of saliva 
before the stomach is made too acid for their proper digestion. 

FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

To mix fruits and vege^^ables (especially the coarser vegetables, 
such as beets, turnips, onions, boiled cabbage, etc.) at the same 
meal is never advisable; not only with respect to the blending of 
acids with starchy vegetables, but because of the diffefing periods' 
of time required for their digestion. Fruits, as a rule, are very 
quickly digested, ,a^ sweet apple requiring but a little more than 
an hourj while a heavy vegetable, such as boiled cabbage, requires 
from four to six hours. When these are mixed together in the 
stomach, the lengthy process of vegetable digestion serves to de- 
tain the fruit mixture beyond its normal limit, until fermentation 
naturally results. 

"It is better to have the fruit at one meal, and vegetables at 
another." — White. 

75 




SCIENCE <f FOOD and COOKERY 



SUGAR AND MILK IN EXCESS 

"Large quantities of milk and sugar eaten together are in- 
jurious." "Sugar clogs the system. It hinders the working of 
the living machine." — White. 

Sugar as eaten in beets t>r in sugar dane is a natural food, and 
wholesome; but when taken in the concentrated form of our mod- 
ern white sugar of commerce, it is an artificial product, and its 
free use is a positive injury to the system. It favors fermentation, 
and is an intestinal irritant. Until about the eighteenth century, 
this sugar was. sold only in drug stores, being used principally in 
the making of medicine. Now an average of about eighty-five 
pounds per capita is used in the United States annually. 

The free use of refined sugar is said to be the caUse of an 
excessive secretion of hydrochloric acid. Intestinal catarrh, which 
often leads to appendicitis, is traceable to the free use of white 
sugar, sometimes spoken of by well-known physicians as "solid 
alcohol." During the great sugar shortage of 1918, pellagra is 
said to have dropped off throughout the South, to such an extent 
that the free use of sugar was shown to have been a cofitributing 
cause of the disease. The adding of much sugar to mushes, with, 
milk, or its too free use in puddings arid cakes, makes them un- 
wholesome in proportion to the excess added. i 

As to the evil efifects following the use of a combination of 
milk and sugar, some very practical tests carried out in an up-to- 
date physiology laboratory, brought to light the following inter- 
esting facts*: ' 

1. That sugar is a distinct intestinal irritant; and the stoma.ch, 
in an effort to protect itself from injury, produces large -amounts 
of mucus. The amount of mucus produced varies with the sugar 
concentration in the stomach. 

2. That this mucus combines readily with the hydrochloric acid 
of the gastric juice, and thus prevents the norpial activity of 
gastric juice upon stibstances requiring gastric digestion when 
they are present in the stomach. 

76 



M>n*ii>a<li4 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



_ 3. That when sugar and milk are taken together, the digestion 
of the protein of the milk is greatly delayed because of the presence 
of mucus resulting from stimulation of the glands by cane sugar. 

-4. That this mucus, combining with the acid, delays the action 
of the gastric juice on protein. Thus the materials present in the 
stomach, remaining for an abnormally long time, are likely to 
undergo fermentation, and cause definite gastric distress. 

The sugar originally designed for human consumption was 
fruit sugar. It is served by nature in a dilute form, and requires 
practically no digesting, needing only to be absorbed. It does not 
tax or derange the organs of digestion, but furnishes a form of 
nutriment that can be utilized by almost every one, even by those 
whose digestive powers have become weakened. Persons who 
partake freely of those sweets will not greatly desire the artificial. 

FREE FATS IN COOKING 

The question of the use of free fats in cooking should receive 
careful and ' thoughtful consideration, -inasmuch as any extreme 
course in either direction is fraught with consequences that are 
detrimental to health. Many of the edible plants are deficient in 
the fat element; and instinctively, it would seem, man puts cream 
or butter on his bread. Fresh vegetables, while they have their 
delicate and characteristic flavors, taste "flat" without the addition 
of a little cream or free fat of some kind. 

Nature serves fats in the very best form to be utilized by the 
body; that is, emulsified. These wholesome fats are supplied in 
nuts and olives, also in the yolk of ^^'g, and in milk and cream. 
When taken in this form, each minute globule of fat is surrounded 
with a thin ,envelope, which holds the fat particles apart, and 
protects the foods from the free fat, thus permitting them to be 
readily digested. 

Free or neutral fats, if used top freely .with meals, have a 
tendency, to smear over the foods, and interfere w4th their diges- 
tion. The prolonged retention of free fats in the stomach favors 
fermentation and rancidity, often producing heartburn and in- 
testinal catarrh. 




SCIENCE gf FOOD and COOKERY 



Free fats, however, are more digestible when cold than' when 
hot, because hot fats not only coat but intimately penetrate the 
food with which they are cooked. This is especially true of fried 
foods, where each part of food is coated with a layer of fat, which 
keeps the digestive juices from acting on the other food elements. 

In the making of gravies where the flour is browned in hot fat 
before the liquid is added, it is well to bear in mind that when; 
starch granules are so browned and crisped, they are beyond the 
fermentation stage, and are not inclined to cause distress from 
that standpoint. It is more particularly the soluble starches (boiled 
or steamed), being dependent on the ptyalin of saliva for their 
digestion, that, when soaked in fats, are not acted upon by the 
saliva, but must wait digestion until they reach the small intestine, 
where the fats are split up by the pancreatic juice. Thus delayed, 
they are more or less liable to set up fermentation", while with 
browned flour, the case is different, as it is less, if at all, liable 
to ferment. 

In seasoning such foods as hash or baked dressing, owhere the 
cooked potato in the hash and the soaked bread in the dressing 
readily absorb fat, and thus tend to make the food difficult of 
digestion, let the free fat first be used in making a sauce or a 
gravy, and then add this to the food. In this manner, the fat is 
not liberated to coat the starch granules, as is the case when free 
fat by itself is mixed with the starch and baked. 




78 




Brazilian 
Coffee Pickers 



DIETETIC ERRORS 



"Now good digestion waits on appetite 
and health on both." 



Instinct originally guided man in the choice of foods best 
suited to his individual necessities, as also in choosing the time 
most suitable for the taking of such food; but civilization has 
created for man certain artificial environments, habits, and appe- 
tites, in the confusion of which his instincts are largely lost, which 
makes it incumbent upon him to be guided by rule and reason, 
rather than by impulse, in these matters. 

Certain dietetic indiscretions are set forth here, which, if in- 
dulged, would minimize any lasting benefit that might be realized 
from a strict conformity to rules of combination. These are hasty 
eating, eating between meals, too large a variety at one meal, over- 
eating, drinking at meals, and the use of artificial stimulants. 

Hasty Eating. — Digestion begins in the mouth. But when 
food is improperly masticated, it enters the stomach with only 
slight alteration. The ptyalin of saliva is not present in sufficient 
quantity, under such conditions, to produce any effect on the 

79 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



preliminary digestion of starches, with the result that the food 
passes through the duodenum practically unchanged, and in coarse 
particles, where it is likely to produce irritation. One authority says : 

"Although much of the mechanical preparation and mixing of 
foods is of a necessity done in the stomach, some of it may ad- 
vantageously be done in the mouth. The stomach should not be 
required to perform the function of the gizzard of a fowl." — 
"Human Foods," page 22'/. 

Hasty eating, or bolting of food, is a fruitful cause of over- 
eating. The food does not remain in the mouth long enough, 
under this condition, to give the satisfaction that it gives when 
thoroughly masticated; so, in an effort to satisfy the craving for 
food, more is taken than the body requires. This habit leads, 
moreover, to the taking of too large a quantity in too short a 
time, which serves to paralyze, as it were,- the nerve impulses 
that communicate with the brain, and as a result, the important 
message "Enough" does not reach the brain until an excess of 
food has been consumed. 

When farinaceous foods (breads, cereals, potato, etc.) are well 
chewed and intimately mixed with saliva, they are more efficiently 
digested, and go farther, less, food being required than when not 
well digested. Bread made from the entire grain requires more 
mastication before it can be swallowed than does spongy white 
bread, and itself promotes good digestion. Dry foods, wiiich in-^ 
duce mastication, should have a prominent place in the dietary. 

Eating Between Meals. — In order to have health and efficiency, 
the body must be supplied with wholesome food, at regular inter- 
vals, and nothing between meals. This is absolutely necessary to 
insure the secretion of digestive juices for transforming the food 
into healthy blood and tissue. The glands will then form the 
habit of pouring out the proper juices into the stomach at meal- 
times every day, for nature does everything on time. On the 
other hand, eating at untimely seasons and between meals leads 
to the disorder of these" delicate glands, so they will not perform, 
their work properly. 

80 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



It is a general custom to serve the meals too closely together. 
The stomach should have time to dispose of one meal before 
another is ihtr,oduced, with an interval of rest between.; because 
the muscles of the stomach need rest after active work, just ^s 
do the muscles of the arm.. The glands must have time to become 
recharged with a good quality of digestive juices. At least, five or 
six hours should intervene between meals. 

"// you keep your digestive mill constantly grinding, 'it will 
soon wear out." 

Large Variety. — The researches of Pavlov brought out the 
interesting fact that for each kind of food, such as bread, milk, 
vegetables, meat, fruit, etc., a different kind of digestive juice is 
required. Hence the wisdom of limiting the number of foods -at 
one meal to a select few. The human body, though intricate and 
complicated in its structure, is nevertheless very simple in its 
automatic control when adjusted to its original environment of 
simplicity in diet. Any tendency toward monotony or sameness 
in meals may be avoided by having variety at different meals. 
The following words are to the point: 

"A disordered stomach produces a disordered, uncertain state 
of mind. . . . Many a plan that would have been a blessing to 
the world has been set aside, many unjust, oppressive, even cruel 
measures have been carried, as' the result of diseased conditions 
due to wrong habits of eating. 

"Here is a suggestion for all whose work is sedentary or chiefly 
mental ; let those who have sufficient moral courage and self-control 
try it: At each meal take only two or three kinds of simple food, 
and eat no more than is required to satisfy hunger. Take active 
exercise every day, and see if you do not receive benefit." — "Min- 
istr'y of Healing," page 310. 

The taking of any considerable number of foods at one meal, 
even though they be not antagonistic to one another, is bound 
to overtax the digestive organs^ and so favor fermentation and 
poisoning, rather than nourish the system. The Canadian Con- 
fectioner and Baker says concerning the use of a large variety 
of |food at one meal: 

81 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



'The reason why there are so many dyspeptics found, is not 
that we work harder nor even worry more than our fathers did, 
but we eat too much and too many things. If our grandfathers, 
could only see what we put into our stomachs at a single sitting, 
they would turn in their graves ! Is it any wonder, then, that there 
is so little real relish for food ?" — Quoted in "Baker's Review," 
October, 1912. 

Overeating. — "The feast is worse than the fast" if it tempts 
the appetite beyond the legitimate needs of the body, or if it brings 
together elements that the digestive organs are unable to cope with. 
Overtaxation of the digestive organs is a bad form of dissipation, 
and is said to be the cause of more disease, either directly or 
indirectly, than is caused by all alcoholic dissipation combined. 
Mr. W. Earl Flinn, well-known lecturer, says on this point: 

"It is probable that in most civilized countries more people die 
because of the failure of the body to eliminate the waste than 
because of an inability to procure food necessary to sustain life. 
Most of our ailments, as well as our constant failure to attain our 
highest physical efficiency, are due to the accumulation of un- 
healthy waste products which cannot be cleared away by the body 
machinery." — Elmira "Star Gazette," November 8, ipii. 

The United States Public Health Service says of the evils of 
overeating : ' 

"Gluttony, always at fault, is all the more glaring in a land 
where a plentiful food supply permits it to be more general. The- 
sallow, fat cheeks, the aching joints and irascible temper of the 
prosperous overfed are far too common." — "Health News," Janu- 
ary 31, K^IJ. 

Drinking at Meals. — The practice of washing the food down 
with drink at mealtime is detrimental to "health, for well established 
scientific reasons. It hinders the flow of saliva; it dilutes the gas- 
tric juice; encourages poor chewing; causes hasty eating; induces 
overeating; and when drink is taken cold or iced, stops digestion. 

Artificial Stimulants.- — Stimulants are great deceivers, because 
of the immediate eflfect they have upon the body. By thieir use, 
a weak person is temporarily made to feel strong; not because 

82 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY .tl^SHIS 



they impart strength to the body, for this they are unable to do, 
but because the^ whip i^p the flagged energies to increased action. 
They draw upon the reserve strength, and are but a short cut to 
physical bankruptcy. As to the deceptive nature of popular 
stimulants. Dr. Alexander Haig says: 

"Stimulation is not strength, but force rendered a little more 
quickly available, and is invariably followed by an exactly corre- 
sponding amount of depression, when the force is used up and 
must be replaced." 

"It has been truly said that the man who relies upon stimulants 
for strength is lost, for he is drawing upon a reserve fund which 
is not completely replaced, and physiological bankruptcy must 
inevitably ensue. This is what stimulants, such as tea, coifee, 
alcohol, tobacco, opium, and cocaine, do for those who trust in 
them; they none of them introduce albumen, available for con- 
version into force and urea, they merely aid in the calling out 
of the reserves."T— "Die? and Food," pages 40, 123. 

Meat is stimulating, on account of the presence of certain waste 
and poisonous substances always found in animal flesh. One can 
get the same exhilaration from a cup of beef tea as from brandy. 
Wash the excretory products out of meat and it is tasteless and 
insipid. These artificial stimulants create abnormal appetite, usu- 
ally mistaken for hunger, with the result that the digestive organs 
are burdened with a quantity of food which the system will be 
taxed to dispose of. 

About Tea and Coffee. — The effect of the drug caffeine in 
coffee is to stimulate the nervous system. It removes the sense 
of fatigue, but cheats the body by producing sleeplessness. Its 
use is often followed by palpitation of the heart and indigestion. 
Dr. Harvey W. Wiley is quoted on this point: 

"For my part, believing, as I do, in the eternal principles of 
energy, and that you cannot get something for nothing, I am 
unable to see how the stimulation produced by a drug like caflFeine 
can secure any energy except at a corresponding expense." 

"That caffeine is a lethal poison in not very largfe doses is thor- 
oughly established by Dr. Slant's work on rabbits, guinea pigs, 

83 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



•catSj and dogs. The evil effects of extensive drinking of coffee 
and tea are well known to all members of the medical profession*" 
— "Journal of the American Medical Association," May ii, ipi2. 

Dn Oilman Thompson, professor of medicine in the Cornell 
University College, New York, says concerning the effects of tea: 

".The ill effects of excessive tea drinking . . . the "'tea 
habit' . . . are referable to its action on the digestive and nerv- 
ous systems, and are cumulative. If taken in large quantities with, 
meals, tea precipitates the digestive ferments, retards the activity'- 
of digestion, and may occasion gastric irritation and catarrh. Con- 
stipation usually results. . . . The effect of the 'tea habit' on the 
nervous system is to overstimulate and then depress it, first pro- 
ducing restlessness, worry, and insomnia, and finally muscular 
tremors, sensory disturbances, and palpitation." 

"In a recent report upon insanity in Ireland, tea is mentioned 
as a contributing factor." — "Practical Dietetics,'" pages 250, 251. 

Dr. Alexander Haig says of tea: 

"In taking tea, . . . man is taking pure poi'son and no nour- 

ishmer(t whatever, and with the introduction and diffusion of tea 

and coffee throughout the land, there has come about a very g'reat 

■ increase in all uric acid diseases." — "Uric Acid in the Causation 

of Disease," page 804. 




84 




XI. 



PLANNING THE MEAL AND MENU MAKING 

"It is worth a life effort to lift a man from degradation. To prevent 
his fall is better." 

Since the health and efficiency of the family depend so directly 
upon what they ea,t, no study could be more worthy of the house- 
wife's attention than the art of planning harmony in her meals, 
and this subject should appeal to every thinking mother. 

A small amount of food in right combination gives more energy 
than a large amount poorly combined, just as a small, well disci- 
plined force' of arms is more' effective in war than an untrained 
mob. This makes the selection of foods a matter not only of 
health, but of economics as well; and when the principles of com- 
bining foods are rightly understood, very palatable and nutrition- 
meals may be prepared from the most simple and inexpensive foods 

In planning the meal, two great objectives should be kept ii 
view: first, the selection of foods that provide in about the right 
proportion all the kinds of substances required to nourish the body; 
second, the selection of foods that agree with one another, as 
discussed in a previous chapter. 

In seeking to balance the food elements in a meal, we should 
think of foods classifie'd in the following four groups, and choose 
some article of food from each group at least once a day;, then the 
daily ration is i^ot likely to want for any necessary element. There 
is nothing mysterious about the planning of most palatable, nutri- 

8s 





SCIENCE qf> FOOD and COOKERY 



tious, and inexpensive meals. By a study of these groups, one 
may learn how to substitute one food for another in accordance 
with palatability and price, and when laying in supplies of food, 
to consider the question in terms of these groups. 

TABLE OF FOOD CLASSIFICATION 



I. Foods Rich in Protein : 



2. Carbohydrate Foods: 



3. Foods Rich in Fats: 

4. Foods Depended on for 

Mineral Matters and 
Body-Regulating Sub- 
stances : 



Milk, skimmed milk, cottage cheese, eggs, nuts, 
nut foods, dried beans, dried peas, lentils, 
macaroni, entire wheat, oatmeal. 

All cereals, breads, crackers, macaroni, break- 
fast foods, sugar, honey, sirups, fruit, espe- 
cially dried fruits, potato, other vegetables. 

Olives, nuts, cream, butter, vegetable oils, 
solid vegetable fats. 

Whole cereals, fruits, whole meal cereal prod- 
ucts, entire wheat breads, greens, fresh vege- 
tables, melons, salads (raw green stuflf). 



Fresh vegetables, especially the coarser "kinds, ccjntain a large 
proportion of water in their composition, and if served by them- 
selves, would fail of supplying proper nutrition to the body. 
However, when they are served with one of the more solid 
foods, as grains, nuts, legumes, etc., they furnish a needed bulk 
to the food, and are rich in mineral and vitamines. 

As examples of simple foods that combine well in the making 
of well balanced meals, take potato, consisting largely of starch, 
and eggs, which are largely albumen and fat. These balance each 
other in about the right proportion. Rice, being nearly all starch, 
and beans, heavy in protein, when taken at the same meal, make 
an excellent combination. Nuts, being rich in protein and fat, 
when eaten with fruits, containing sugar and acid, make an ex- 
cellent balance. If the meal be composed principally of potato or 
rice (both consisting largely of starch), a few nuts, with ripe 
olives or a little cream, will supply the needed protein and fat. 

86 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



In seeking to provide foods that will give proper nourishment 
to the body, we should avoid the extremes in either of two direc- 
tions: on the one hand, that which tends toward an impoverished 
diet ; on the other hand, that which brings into one meal too many 
heavy, highly concentrated foods. 

Avoid having the meals one-sided, by serving the more watery 
foods, such as fruits or vegetables, with one of the heavier foods, 
as grains, legumes, nuts, etc. Vary the meals from day to day, 
making a change in both the taste and the appearance of the food 
as it comes to the table. 

Serve some raw food daily, as in these the mineral and vitamine 
constituents are preserved unchanged by heating; and avoid, so 
far as possible, white breads, white rice, package breakfast foods, 
and so-called refined foods, which have been robbed of their life- 
giving elements, and thus cannot sustain the body in a healthy 
condition. 

BACKBONE OF THE MEAL 

We find, on examination, that good bread (entire wheat) pos- 
sesses properties which so nearly represent the constituent parts 
of the human body as to rtiake such bread ideal for building up 
the body and keeping.it in a state of health. Such bread is rightly 
called "the staflF of life," and from time immemorial^ has been so 
considered the world over. Good bread is an exceedingly digestible 
food; and experiments show that nearly 98% of the carbohydrate 
nutrients, and about 88% of the gluten or protein constituents, are 
assimilated by the body. In the matter of building material, bread 
yields about 10% of protein, or about the recognized dietary re- 
quirement in normal health. 

Good bread, therefore, of some kind, may justly be called the 
backbone of the meal. To this add the various fresh vegetables 
for their mineral value, flavor, and variety; and from day to day 
in rotation, one of the more solid foods as needed, such as noodles, 
beans, macaroni, etc., also varying proportions of nuts and dairy 
products. The following menus are designed to represent a fair 
combination, from the standpoint of nutrition, and also of agree- 
ment together, 

87 



MENUS FOR ONE WEEK 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 
OATMBAL CBEAM STEWED PRUNES CORN BREAD (ENTIRE) YOGURT 

DINNER 
BAKED POTATO COUNTRY GRAVY NEW PEAS LETTUCE WHEAT STICKS WALNt 

LUNCHEON 
BAKED BANANA MILK TOAST ENGLISH BISCUIT MELON 

Monday 

BREAKFAST 
STEAMED NATURAL RICE MILK GREEN PEAS TOAST PEAR SAUCE 

DINNER 
NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER OLIVES COTTAGE CHEESE ENTIRE WHEAT BRB 

LUNCHEON 
' CORN FLAKES CREAM PRUNES ORANGES ZWIEBACK YOGURT 

Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 
CANTALOUPE POACHED EGOS BAKED POTATO WHEAT PUFFS SOY COFFEE 

DINNER 
CREAM OF CORN SOUP FRESH TOMATO BEANS WITH NOODLES APPLE PIE EYE BRE 

LUNCHEON ' 
CHERRIES ORANGES LETTUCE AND EGG SANDWICHES CEREAL COFFEE 

Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 
CRACKED WHEAT CREAM PLAIN OMELET STRAWBERRIES CORN DODGERS 

DINNER 
COMEINATION SALAD MACARONI FAMILY STYLE SPINACH OLIVES WALNUT STICI 

' LUNCHEON 
CREAMED NATURAL RICE STEWED FIGS ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUIT MILK 

Thursday 

BREAKFAST 
NUT AND POTATO HASH CREAM TOMATO TOAST CANTALOUPE ^OP-OVERS 

DINNER 
VEGETABLE SOUP POTATO SALAD LIMA BEANS BEET GREENS BROWN BREAD 

LUNCHEON 
FRUIT SOUP BANANAS ORANGES CRACKERS CEREAL COFFEE - 



')t»fWW*««l 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKEICY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

STEAMED WHEAT CREAM BAKED APPLE FAVORITE LENTIL PATTIES 

CORN BREAD HONEY 

DINNER ' 

SAVORY POT ROAST COLD SLAW BROWNED POTATO WALNUTS 



EliTIRE WHEAT BREAD 



YOGURT 



' LUNCHEON 
SLICED PEACHES CREAM TOAST SOY CQPFEB 



Satiirday 

BREAKFAST 

CORN MEAL POBRIDOE (ENTIRE) MILK BANANA CREAM TOAST 

STRAWBERRIES FRUIT BREAD 

DINNER 

LETTUCE AND TOMATO MAYONNAISE NOODLES AU GRATIN 

GRAHAM BUNS RAISIN FIE 

LUNCHEON 
CREAM TOAST STEWED CHERRIES ORANGES ZWIEBACK CEREAL COFFEE 

In the making of menus, some provision is made for individual 
choice.. Some .persons will not require everything n^med on the 
menu, but each will choose such things and in such amounts as 
experience and sound judgment prove to be best suited to his 
necessities. 

To show that it is not necessary to provide a large variety at 
one meal in order to supply the needs pf the body, we. may say 
that if breakfast No. i consisted of only the three first items, — 
milk, oatmeal, and prunes, — it would provide practically all the 
kinds of substance needed by the body^ The oatmeal and the milk 
supply bjiilding material (protein); the milk or cream supplies fat; 
the milk and the prunes contain sugar; and the oatmeal fttrnishes 
starch. These last three — fat, sugar, and starch — are heat and 
energy foods. Prunes are rich in iron and potassium, and provide 
a needed bulk; while the milk and the oatmeal furnish lime and 
phosphorus, all of which are essential ingredients for the making 
of a well balanced dietary. Milk and cream are also rich in es- 
sential vitamine. 

The accompanying table gives the proportion of food elements 
in some of our most -common foods. By a little study of the 
composition of various food materials, one can soon become suffi- 
ciently intelligent along this line to keep the diet properly balanced. 

89 



TABLE OF FOOD COMPOSITION 

PoBTioSi Containing Wt. op 
Nahg 100 Calories lOO C. Fes cent of 

Car- 
, " bohy- 

Approximately Ounces Protein Fat dratee 

Apple Sauce ordinary serving . .... 3.3 2 5 93 

Apples, raw 2 apples '^3 3 7 90 

Apricots, cooked .... large serving , 4.6 6 94 

Bananas ,. i large 3.5 S S 9° 

Beans, baked small-sized dish 2.6 21 18 * 61 

Beans, string ;. S servings 16.6 15 48 37 

Beets 3 servings 8.7 2 23 75 

Bread, corn small square . 1.3 12 16 72 

Bread, rye 2 small slices 1.4 14 2 84 

Bread, white ordinary thick slicp.. . 1.3 13 6 81 

Bread, whole wheat. . 2 small slices .1.4 16 3 81 

Butter small pat 44 .5 99.5 

Buttermilk iJ4 glasses 9.7 34 12 54 

Cake, sponge small piece 2.5 19 10 71 

Cantaloupe ordinary' serving 8.6 6 94 

Carrots 2 servings 5.8 10 34 56 

Corn Flakes ordinary bowl 97 11 i 88 

Com, sweet ordinary serving 3.5 13 10 77 

Cottage Cheese small serving 3.1 76 8 16 

Grape Juice small glass 4.2 100 

Macaroni, cooked ... ordinary serving ....~ 3.85 14 is 71 

Milk, whole small glass 4.9 19 52 29 

Milk, skimmed iH glasses 9.4 37 7 56 

Hominy, cooked .... large serving 4.2 ii 2 87 

Honey 4 teaspoonfuls 1.05 i 99 

Olives, ripe 7 olives 1.3 2 91 7 

Orange Juice i teacupful 6.6 100 

Peaches 2 medium size 4.7 4 2 94 

Peanuts about 26 62 20 63 17 

Pears i large 5.4 4 7 89 

Peas, green i serving 3. 23 27 50 

Pecan Nuts about 8 46 6 87 7 

Potatoes, baked i large 3. 11 i 88 

Rice, cooked ordinary bowl 3.1 10 I 89 

Rolls, buns I large 1.2 12 7 81 

Soup, cream barley . . ordinary bowl 5. 14 33 53 

Strawberries 2 servings ...\ 9.1 10 15 75 

Sugar, granulated ... ij4 tablespoonfuls ... .86 100 

Sugar, maple 2 tablespoonfuls 1.03 100 

Tomatoes, fresh .... 4 medium size 15. 15 16 69 

Wheat Flour 4 tablespoonfuls 96 15 5 80 

Zwieback i thick slice 81 9 21 ''o 



go 



^ 



SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



THE THIRD MEAL 

One of the first and most essential requirements in the main- 
tenance of health in these days of stress and competition is rest. 
When the evening meal is light, and composed of foods most 
quickly and easily digested,' the stomach is permitted to have its 
work all done when the time comes for sleep, so it, as well as 
other organs of the body, may enjoy perfect rest, and thus kind 
nature may do her reconstructive work unhindered. Fruit, fruit 
juices, bread twice baked (zwieback), crackers, and milk or cereal 
coffee are foods best suited to the evening meal. 

When the usual "three square meals" are taken daily; with the 
heaviest meal coming but an hour or two before bedtime, a great 
burden is imposed on the digestive organs at the very time when 
they should have the least. It follows that there is seldom any 
real relish for breakfast, and little is eaten. Often the noon meal 
consists of but cold foods and hot drinks. Thus by evening, a 
ravenous appetite for food is developed. Hence the work of 
digestion is carried into the sleeping hours, causing restless dreams, 
and in the morning, a sense of being unrefreshed upon awakening, 
with lack of energy. 

When this practice is long continued, the digestive organs wear 
out prematurely, because they find no time for rest. The sufferer 
is at a loss to account for such a state of things, since he may 
be, aside from this, in apparent good health. Having insufficient 
rest, the digestive organs become weary; and this is the cause of 
that feeling of "goneness" so often misinterpreted as a demand 
for more food. The gratification of this false appetite when the 
stomach is already exhausted from overwork, does for a time 
remove the sense of faintness; but it is^ only the giving of a 
mortgage on the reserve forces, for the day of physical reckoning 
must come. To husband carefully the reserve forces of vitality is 
to avert a crisis, and is the first essential in preserving the health. 

ABOUT THE TWO-MEAL PLAN 

An impartial trial affords abundant proof that for most per- 
sons, two meals a day are better than three. Especially is this so 

91 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



with those of sedentary habit, and with brain workers. The times 
for meals should be fixed proportionately far apart, and the meals 
taken regularly. Dr. D. H. Kress, a physician of long practical 
experience, writes of- the two-meal plan as follows : 

"Two meals^a day are sufficient, and in every way preferable 
whenever it can be intelligently carried out. Of course, there are 
those who can eat but little at a meal ; for such, three meals are 
best. But most dyspeptics could cure themselves by simply taking 
two meals a day, thus affording 'the stomach a period of rest 
between meals &nd enabling it to do better work." 

"As a rule, men fast when they can no longer eat if they would. 
Even a long annual fast is better than that; but, as stated, a daily 
fast by dropping out one meal a day is the best method of fasting. 
Two meals a day, I am convinced, would result in increased health 
to the majority of mankind^ and would greatly lessen the labor 
of those who are at present troubled and worried about much 
serving, to such an extent that they have no time for . anything 
e\sk."—"Life Boat," June, 1919. 

Mr. W. Earl Flinn is quoted on the same point: 

"In most cases it has been demonstrated that two meals are 
sufficient for all kinds of work. Of course the food must be scien- 
tifically selected, as well as right combinations, and well masticated. 
The Greeks built up the most beautiful women and men ever 
known on two meals a day." — Elmira "Star Gazette," November 
8, ipii. 

The Holy Scriptures tell us that when God commanded the 
ravens to feed the prophet Elijah, in a time of great famine, they 
brought him but two meals a day. (i Kings 17: 2-6.) 

A man who is engaged in severe physical exercise or work, 
will not suffer so acutely from an excess of protein, or. from the 
habit of eating a hearty meal at night, as will a person who has 
little exercise, or is weak physically. His system is better able 
to eliminate excess of waste products. However, to preserve the 
health by reasonable and timely care is much better than to regain 
it when it is lost. Those who, for a reasonable length of time, 
live on a moderately low protein diet, and eat only two meals a 

92 



«•«■■■««■**■ 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



day, or at most a light lunch for the evening meal, soon' observe 
a clearness of mind and an increase of physical endurance that 
are most gratifying. 

ADAPTATION OF FOOD 

, The diet ' that is most conducive to good health, necessarily 
■varies with circumstances, depending largely upon the occupation 
of the individual, the climate in which he lives, and the season of 
the year. Some foods adapted for use at one season or in one 
climate are not suited to another; and different foods are best 
suited to persons of different occupations. Often food that can 
be used with benefit by persons engaged in hard physical labor 
is unsuitable for those of sedentary habit. 

Some people make the mistake of eating in warm weather the 
same foods and the same quantities of food that they consume in 
the winter; but the quantity of food should be reduced during the 
spring and summer months. . The digestive organs cannot readily 
care for the same quantity or the same quality in spring that they 
are capable of digesting during the winter. Wisely, therefore, \yith 
the return of spring, nature,takes away the desire for many of the 
more solid foods, and furnishes us with fruits, greeny, and iSuccii- 
lent vegetables, which are appetizing and cooling to the system. 

Much of the common sickness, especially during the spring and 
summer months, is caused by the absorption of poisons resulting 
from the decay of unsuitable food in the intestinal tract. Pimples, 
rash, and itching of the skin are often signs that nourishment 
ill suited to the season or to the condition of the blood has been 
taken into the bodj?^. Fresh fruits are both food and medicine, and 
are needed by the blood; being especially rich in alkaline elements, 
they serve to keep the blood in good condition, and because they 
contain the carbon in a form most easily digested (fruit sugar), 
they hold first place in the list of foods which go to make up 
the ideal diet. ' 



93 




XII. COURSE OF COOKING LESSONS 

"Study to, show' thyself . . . a workman that needeth not to be ashcimed." 

The following lesson outline is intended merely as an aid to 
those who are. called upon to teach the subject of cooking in 
sanitariums and other educational institutions. Accordingly, the 
practical work has been arranged to cover, as far as possible, all 
the more important recipes adapted to class work, and to take 
them up in an order favoring economy of time, and providing 
for an equalization of work between baking, stewing, etc. 

This short course, which is adapted for the advanced student, 
usually extends over a period of from ten to twenty weeks. One 
two-hour demonstration and lecture period is usually conducted by 
the instructor weekly; this is followed by two two-hour periods a 
week of practical work by the class individually. Careful attention 
is to be given to the study of the nutritive values of foods, their' 
digestibility,- combinations, etc., also to the general principles which 
govern in the making of menus. Familiarity with the text matter 
on these subjects should be required of the class; the lessons so 
learned to be impressed during the practical work that follows. 

LESSON OUTLINE 

Lesson i. Principles of Canning: (vegetables) p. 253, string 

beans, corn, pumpkin. 
Lesson 2. Principles of Canning: (fruits) p. 256, fruits, tomatoes. 
Lesson 3. Preservation in Salt: p. 255, string beans, cucumbers, 
peppers. 
Preservation of Eggs: (water glass) p. 255. 

94 



m 




SCIENCB gf FOOD amT COOKERY 



Lesson 4. Cookery and Food Preparation: p. 61, steamed rice, 

rice and nut patties, stuffed bell -peppers. 
Lesson 5. Macarbni family style, corn dodgers, stewed beets. 
Lesson 6. Vegetable julienne soup, baked bean puree, wheat 

sticks. 
Lesson 7. Principles of Successful Cookery: p. 67, spinach or 

other greens, cream of tomato soup, corn meal 

puffs. 
Lesson 8. Vegetable salads, mayonnaise, garnitures. 
Lesson 9. Nuttose, potato soup with dumplings, wheat puffs. 
Lesson 10. Food Economics: p. 57, baked dressing without eggs, 

brown gravy, corn bread. (Save some of the 

dressing cold for the next lesson.) 
Lesson 11. Nut and potato pie, savory potato hash, stewed lentils, 

gluten gruel. (Save some cooked lentils for the 

next class.) 
Lesson 12. Lentil and potato hash, cream of corn soup, breaded 

tomato. 
Lesson 13. Favorite lentil patties, country gravy, Graham fruit 

pudding. 
Lesson 14. Principles of Bread Making: entire wheat, or quick 

method, Parker House rolls, pumpkin pie without 

eggs. 
Lesson 15. Wash out gluten, savory pot roast, oatmeal "gruel. 
Lesson 16. Gluten biscuit, diabetic bread, diabetic puffs, soy 

coffee. 
Lesson 17. Vegetable gluten stew, lemon snow, custard sauce. 
Lesson 18. Vegetable Gelatin: p. 201, lemon, orange, fruit, aerated 

oatmeal gems. 
Lesson 19. Potato stew with dumplings, cereal coffee, junket. 
Lesson 20. Mix and roll out noodles, potato duchess, apple snow. 
Lesson 21. Cream sauce, noodles au gratin, scalloped beets, baked 

parsnip, sago fruit mold. 
Lesson 22. Lemon pie, rice and soy bean loaf, rice and soy bean 

patties. 
Lesson 23. Baked savory eggplant, stewed carrots, cream rolls. 

95- 




SCIENCE 8/^FOOD and COOKERY 



Lesson 24. Loaf cake, icing, granose gruel. 

Lesson 25. Vegetable loaf en -aspic, tomato salad' agar, aerated 
wheat gems. 

Lesson 26. Lima bean and macaroni pie, steamed fruit pudding, 
lemon sauce. 

Lesson 27. Fruit salads, sauces, garnitures. 

Lesson 28. Savory potato, rice and egg croquettes, Creole sauce. 

Lesson 29. Pasteurized milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, butter sub- 
stitutes, browned flour, oat cookies. 

Lesson 30. Potato and lima bean pie, browned rice, cream eggnog. 

Lesson 31. Spanish rice, fruit soup, baked custard. » 

Lesson 32. Ragout of vegetables, pop-overs, malted nuts. 

Lesson 33. Toasts, fruit eggnog, coddled egg. 

Lesson 34. Sandwiches, omelet puff. 

Lesson 35. Layer cake, frosting, ornamenting. 

ESSENTIALS TO SUCCESS 

In this work, as in any other, two things are vital to success,^- 
first a careful planning, and then the carrying out of the plans 
made; as expressed in the terse sentence, "Plan your work, then 
work your plan." 

All the ingredients necessary for the preparation of a dish 
should be at hand and carefully measured before the work of 
combining them is tegun. Accuracy in measuring and careful- 
ness in combining are as essential to the success of a recipe as 
is the knowledge of what is to go' into it. 

The effect of heat at different temperatures, and the time of 
exposure to it, must be understood. But this knowledge can come 
only as a result of experience. 

The following articles are. necessary for measuring: a cup 
holding exactly one half pint, with thirds and fourths indicated, 
teaspoons and tablespoons of regulation sizes, and a common table 
knife. To insure uniformly good results, level measurements have 
been adopted by leading teachers in cookery, as the best guide 
that can be given ; and these will be used throughout this book. 
The following table of measures may be used as a guide: 



fei*iiia>niii«1 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



TABLE OF MEASURES 

3 teaspoons equal i tablespoon 

2 tablespoons of sugar or liquid .... equal I ounce 

l6 tablespoons equal i cup 

4 cups , equal I quart 

2 cups of sugar and rtiost liquids . . .equal i pound 

4 scant cups of silted flour . . . ; equal i pound 

10 eggs _. ; . . . equal i pint 

9 egg whites equal I cup 

8 whole eggs .....,-' equal i pound 

12 yolks (large) equal I cup 

To measure a cupful of any dry ingredient, fill the cup, round- 
ing slightly by placing material in the cup with a spoon ; and with 
the sharp edge of a case knife, brush ofE all material that is piled 
above the brim. Care must be taken not to shake the cup. 

To measure a teaspoon or tablespoon of dry ingredients, dip 
the spoon iiito the same, and with the edge of a case knife turned 
toward the tip of the spoon, brush off all that extends aljove its 
edge. For one half spoonful, divide with a knife lengthwise of 
the. spoon, and ptish out one half; divide halves crosswise for 
quarters. The term "sifted flour" implies that flour is sifted once 
before measuring. 

In combining.^ ingredients, three movements are employed, de- 
scribed as follows : 

1. Stirring, a circular motion made vvith a spoon through the 
ingredients, continued until all are blended. 

2. Beating, a turning of ingredients over and over rapidly by 
means of a spoon or an egg whip, to inclose air by continually 
bringing the under part to the surface, allowing the utensil used 
to be,bi-ought constantly in contact with the bottom of the' dish, 
and up 'through the whole mixture. 

3. Folding, a turning over and over, of the ingredients ; best 
accomplished by a vertical, downward motion of spoon or whip, 
bringing it up through the rnixture, and each' time allowing it to 
come in contact with the bottom of the dish, repeating until all 
is thoroughly blended. This is a slower movement than that of 
beating, arid its object is so to mix ingredients that the air already 
introduced may not escape. 

'97 



XIII. 
BREAD 



"There is more religion in 
a loaf of good bread 
than many think." 




Bread constitutes one of the most important articles of diet, 
and deserves more attention than it receives. Considering the 
conveniences that exist everywhere, and the widespread knowledge 
of bread making, it seems unnecessary and wrong to put poor 
bread on the table. One has well said, "Homemade bread requires 
care and attention; then you have the real staff of life." 

Weight for weight, bread must be regarded as one of the 
most nutritious of foods. The fact that more than^ three fifths 
of the loaf of bread consists of solid nutriment, and less than two 
fifths water, gives it a special place in the list of foods; and no 
animal food, and but few vegetable foods, can be compared with it, 

• Bulletin No. 28, United States Department of Agriculture. 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



THE BEST FLOUR 

Wheat is the most important cereal used in American and 
European countries, where it occupies the same position in the 
dietary as does rice among the Oriental peoples. When a good 
grade of flour is mixed with water and kneaded, the gluten of 
the wheat becomes very elastic; and it is this elasticity that holds 
in the dough the gas formed by the leaven, until the dough is 
sufficiently light and porous. 

Wheat contains the most tenacious gluten of any of the cereals, 
and hence is best adapted to the making of yeast-raised bread. 
Rye contains a strong gluten, and next to wheat, is best adapted 
to the making of raised bread ; but because of its strong flavor, it 
is usually mixed with a greater quantity of wheat flour. Corn, 
oats, -barley, rice, etc., lack the tenacity of gluten found in wheat 
and rye, and therefore cannot be used alone to good advantage, 
in yeast-raised bread. In bread making, they are used chiefly to 
give variety and flavor, the proportion of these flours used being 
generally about one fourth or one third. 

The proportion of gluten in difiFereiit grades of wheat varies; 
but the mere quantity of .gluten is by no means the only standard 
of the commercial value of flour, the quality also counting for 
much. Soil and climate are essential factors in modifying the 
character of wheat, and necessarily of flour. The same variety 
of wheat, grown on the same soil, has also been known to show 
varying degrees of strength of its gluten in different seasons. 

Be this as it may, as a rule, wheat grown where the summers 
are short and not too hot furnishes the best and strongest gluten 
for bread making. For 
instance, the wheat 
grown in Russia is of 
the best. Canada wheat, 
like that grown in the 
Northern States, is ex- 
cellent, for the same 
reason. Wheat grown 
in the Middle States is 



f Water 38. 4'/, 


-«^^^^, 


^ Carbohydrates 
I 49.7 ■* 


GAS! 


1 Proteld 9.7 




%^Fm .» 1 HlB. Oki. 1.3 


. 



99 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



of fair quality; but that grown in the Southern States and that 
grown in CaHfornia, is usually soft,' containing a weak gluten, and 
consequently not well adapted to the irfaking of yeast-raised breads, 

Soft wheat is light-colored and has plump kernels ; while hard 
wheat is commonly of a dark color, with kernels not so rounded 
as the former. Soft wheat is best for the making of crackers, 
pastries, and the like, as the dough is more brittle than that made 
from hard wheat flour. Hard wheat, when ground entire and 
made into bread, gives a dark-colored loaf with excellent flavor. 
If a good grade of flour is necessary for the making of satis- 
factory white bread, it is all the more needful in the making of 
entire wheat bread, as the mixture of bran particles in the flour 
permits the gas to escape a little more readily than when white 
flour is used, wholly or in' part. 

In order to make good entire wheat bread, therefore, it is fir^t 
of all essential to have a flour that contains a strong gluten; also 
the flour must be ground fine, to prevent the gas from escaping 
before the dough is sufficiently light. The dough for entire wheat 
bread must be soft — - so soft that it can scarcely be kneaded on 
the board. This is most important, because the bran absorbs 
moisture in the loaf, even after baking, and causes it to dry out. 

PRINCIPLES OF BREAD MAKING 

Breads are divided into two classes: 

Fermented, made light by a ferment, yeast being usually iem- 
ployed. * 

Unfermented, made, light by the introduction of air into the 
dough or batter. 

Fermented bread is generally made by mixing flour, water, 
salt, fat, and yeast to a dough, a small amount, of sugar being 
added to hasten fermentation. The dough is kneaded until it is 
elastic to the touch and does not stick to the board, the object 
being to incorporate air, and to distribute the yeast uniformly. It 
is then covered, _ a'^ allowed to rise until it has doubled its bulk, 
and does not resplmd to the touch when tapped sharply, but 
gradually and stubborfily begins to sink. At this stage, the dough 
is "ripe," and ready to be worked down. It will require all the 

100 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



way from two to three. and a half hours to rise, depending on the 
grade and consistency of the flour used, and the temperature of 
the room in which it is set. This process is best accomplished at 
a temperature ranging from 75° to 85° Fahrenheit. The bread 
is then worked down wpll, turned over in the bowl, and left to 
rise until about three fourths its original bulk. It is again worked 
down and allowed to rise the third time, to half or two thirds Its 
original bulk. Then it is turned out on a board, worked together, 
molded into loaves, and put intopans for baking. The third ris- 
ing is sometimes dispensed with ; but it gives such a good grain 
to the loaf, thus improving both the shape and the texture of the 
loaf, that most housewives will favor it after a trial. 

Bread is also made by setting a sponge at the beginning, making 
a batter of the water, the yeast, and part of the flour, and letting 
it rise Until it is light, then adding the remaining ingredients, and 
working all into a dough. Bun and cracker dough is usually set 
with a sponge, as they require a very fine and light texture, which 
is best obtained by this method. Ordinary white and entire wheat 
breads are often made by the same process. A sponge is light 
enough when it appears frothy and full of bubbles. The time 
required will vary with the quantity and quality of yeast used, 
and with the temperature of the room in which it is set to rise. 

Bread made from entire wheat, or Graham flour must be 
watched more closely than that maide from white flour, as it rises 
in less time than, white bread, and the gas escapes 'from the dough 
more easily. Entire wheat bread, furthermore, must not be per- 
mitted to rise so light in the pans as white flour bread. Care in this 
respect will preserve in the bread that sweet, nutty, wheat flavor 
which is so characteristic of bread made from the entire grain, but 
which will be lacking if the loaves rise too light in the pans. 

MOLDING THE LOAVES 

In molding the loaves, it is necessary that each loaf be kneaded 

well. If the dough is put into the pans in soft loaves, — soft 

because they were not kneaded enough, — the bread will rise flat 

■ on the top instead of rounded, and is likely to fall when placed 

in the oven. Each loaf should be kneaded into a hard roll, then 




SCIENCE <f FOOD a^ COOKERY 



flattened down, and rolled up into a hard roll. Put into oiled 
pans, and brush the top of each loaf with an oiled brush, to pre- 
vent a crust from drying on while the bread is rising. 
PROVING THE LOAVES 
It is very important to know when the dough is sufficiently 
light after it has been placed in the pans. It should never be 
allowed to rise to its limit before it is put into the oven, but should 
continue to rise for the first ten minutes afterwards. It is. far 
better to bake the bread a little too soon than to let it get too 
Ught. If it is permitted to rise too much in the pans, it will be 
coarse-grained and rather tasteless: If, however, the loaves get 
too light in the pans, they may be molded over and pu^ to rise 
again. To test the lightness of the dough in the pans, press the 
loaf gently with the index finger. If it responds promptly to 
the pressure of the finger, it may be left to rise more; but if it 
responds weakly, it should be placed in the oven immediately. 

BAKING V 

Bread should be baked in a quick oven to begin with. The 
oven should not be so hot as to burn the outside of the loaf before 
the inside is cooked, but should be of such a temperature that the 
bread may rise for the first ten minutes, and then have sufficient 
crust to hold it up, when the fire should be closed up to hold a. 
steady heat until the bread is done. For the small loaves, forty - 
to forty-five minutes is generally .sufficient ; for the larger ones or 
those of ordinary size, one hour to an hour and a quarter. A welt 
baked loaf may be lifted from the pan and placed upon the palm 
of the hand without burning it. This should always be the case 
when bread is well baked and the moisture evaporated. When 
done, remove from the pans and lay on- the side on a wire rack 
to cool. If brushed over the top with warm water just after it 
is taken out of the oven, the crust of the bread will keep softer, 
and will have a nice color. 

It is well to remember that when yeast bread is set warm, it 
must be kept warm throughout the rising, as, if it becomes chilled 
after it begins to work, it will be "sickly," and is likely to sour. 
When a sponge or dough is set at night, it should always be set 

102 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD W COOKERY 




•■■iPiilBaav 



with cold water, about 65° or 70°, or about the temperature of 
the room. Bread set at night, furthermore, requires only half as 
much yeast as is used for bread set during^ the day. Night bread 
is usually set with a sponge, the amount of flour used being about 
the same by measure as. that of the liquid. By morning, it will 
be. lively, and when mixed into a dough, will rise very quickly 
without any warming. 

As a general rule, with the best quality of white flour, three 
measures of flour to one of water are required to "make a dough ' 
of the proper consistency. For making entire wheat or Graham 
bread, less flour is used in proportion. 

YEASTS 

Yeasts belong to the fungi, one of the lowest order of non- 
flowering plants, without leaves or stems. 'Like all other plants, 
they require warmth, moisture, and food in order to grow; and 
when properly supplied with these, they multiply rapidly. 

Pasteur found, by experimentation, that when yeast from fresh 
grape juice was watched under the microscope," "two cellules had 
furnished eight, including the two mother cells, in the course of 
two hours." Fei^mentation proceeds slowly at a temperature 50° F. ; 
but from seventy to ninety degrees, it grows rapidly. Fermenta- 
tion may be arrested by the exhaustion of either the fermenting 
agent (yeast) or the food supply (starch or sugar), or by ex- 
posure to heat at the temperature of boiling water. When not 
well nourished, the yeast cells begin to break up and die, and 
finally decompose with an offensive odor. 

Yeast converts sugar into alcohol, carbon dioxide, and other 
products of fermentation; and it is believed that leavened bread 
owes its flavor largely to these organic substances. Dried yeast 
cakes are made by mixing about 20% starch with the yeast for 
the purpose of keeping it. Pure yeast (washed and pressed into 
cakes, as compressed yeast) will keep for weeks in a cold place, 
such as an ice box; hut it will spoil in a few days at best if not 
kept cold. In the making of all the homemade liquid yeasts, 
essentially the same principles are involyed, — the introduction of 

' "Leavening Agents," by-Hart, 

103 



#■■•■■«■■■»■<> 




-■--■- - ■- — - - 

SCIENCE of FdbD ancC COOKERY 



a dried yeast cake, or a small quantity of lively yeast, into a mix- 
ture of some kind of starch, such as potato, or ilour, . or^ both. 
Under proper conditions of warmth, the small ahiount of yeast 
begins to supply itself with food by converting the starch into 
dextrin, and multiplies itself with great, rapidity, and will con- 
tinue to do so as long as there is material to supply it with the 
means of growth. 

While the growth of yeast under normal conditions is rapid, 
'its decay is equally so; and unless preserved by some means, the 
yeast plants will die, and the mixture become sour. If not to be 
used immediately, yeast should be placed in some receptacle as 
nearly air-tight as possible, and set in a cool cellar or refrigerator, 
where it can be kept at a temperature not conducive to fermen- 
tation. Thus kept, the little yeast plants vvill remain dormant 
until again surrounded by favorable conditions for growth. 

The starch of potato seems .to furnish better material for the 
growth of yeast than that of flour. The potatoes should be per-' 
fectly mature when used for this purpose; new ones will positively 
not answer the purpose. Sugar helps to nourish the yeast plant, and 
a small amount is usually employed in making yeast. 

The most convenient yeast is . that sold as compressed yeast. 
It should be used only when fresh, its freshness being determined 
by its light color and the absence of dark streaks. When corn- 
pressed yeast i-s unobtainable, very satisfactory results follow the 
use of liquid yeast. 

LIQUID YEAST 
I cake dried yeast 2 cups potato water 

54 cup (4 level tablespoons) sugar^ 

Drain the water from boiled potatoes at noon, and when it is 
cooled to about 100°, add the sugar and the yeast cake broken up. 
Put in a glass jar and set in a warm place until the evening. The 
liquid should measure 2 cups, and should be covered with a thick 
foam before it is used for bread. Salt and shortening retard the 
action of yeast, hence are omitted in setting a sponge, and are 
added in mixing the dough. Use 4 measures of water to i meas- 
ure of the above liquid yeast when set at mght, and 2 measures 
of water to i of yeast if set during the day. 

104 (USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



SCIENCE of FOOD md COOKERY 



FERMENTED BREADS 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD No. 1 

V/n quarts cold water 4 tablespoons rhelted vegetable fat 

J4 cake compressed yeast 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons salt 3J^ quarts entire wheat flour 

Night Sponge (9 p. m.)-— "Dissolve, the yeast in i tablespoon 
water to a smooth paste and add the cold liquid. Add ij4 quarts 
of the flour and beat to a smooth batter. Cover, and if the weathet 
is cold, wrap in a cloth until the morning. 

Doughy (6 a. m.).^ — Add the salt, the sugar, and the vegetable 
iat to the sponge, and mix well. Add the balance of the flour, 
reserving a large handful for the board, and mix to a soft dough. 
Turn out on a floured board, and knead until elastic to the touch 
(about 5 to 8 minutes) ; then put into an oiled bowl, cover, and 
let rise until, when tapped sharply, it gradually begins to sink, 
which will require from, i^ to 3 hours. Work down thoroughly, 
turn over in the bowl, cover, and let rise again until about three 
fourths its original bulk; then work down the second time. Cover, 
and let rise the third time, until about two thirds its former bulk; 
then turn out on the floured board, knead again, mold into loaVes, 
and put into pans for baking. Brush dver the top. of each, loaf 
with an oiled brush, and let rise until, whenpressed with the finger, 
it responds rather weakly to the pressure; then bake in a good oven. 

Study instructions previously given fof molding' and proving 
the loaves, and the length of .time for baking. • 

In hot weather, the day recipe is to be preferred. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD No. 2 (Day Recipe) 

4 tablespoons melted vegetable fat ij^ quarts zvarm water 

4 tablespoons sugar • i cake compressed yeast 

sYi quarts entire wheat flour 2 tablespoons salt 

Dissolve the yeast in i^ tablespoons water, add the warm 
liqirid,. the salt, the sugar, and the fat, and mix well. ,Add the 
flour (reserving a handful for the board), and mix into a soft 
dough. Turn out on a floured board, and knead until elastic to 
the touch. Put into an oiled bowl, cover, and set in a wwm room 
to rise. Proceed and finish' the same as for entire wheat bread No. i. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 105 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



FRUIT BREAD 

Take half of either of the foregoing reCipes for entire wheat 
bread, after it has risen the first time. Add Yz cup melted vege- 
table fat, Yi cup sugar, and work into the dough until absorbed. 
Add 3 cups of seedless sultana raisins that have been washed, 
drained, and heated in a covered vessel until hot through, then 
cooled. Work them into the dough by folding the dough over 
and over until they are well mixed through. Cover, and let rise 
again until about three fourths its original bulk; then turn out 
on a floured board, work together, mold into loaves, and put into 
pans for baking. Raise and finish the same as entire wheat bread. 

GRAHAM BREAD (So Called) 

I quart warm water 2 tablespoons sugar 

I cake compressed yeast , 2 tablespoons melted "vegetable fat 

i^ tablespoons s?lt ij4 quarts entire wheat flour 

ij^ quarts white bread flour 

Dissolve the yeast in i^ tablespoons water, add the warm 
liquid, the salt, the sugar, and the fat, and mix well. Add the 
flour (reserving a small handful for the board), and mix into a 
dough. Knead until elastic to. the touch (about 8 minutes or 
more). Put into an oiled bowl, cover, let rise, and finish the 
same as for entire wheat bread. 

BRAN BISCUIT 

Take one half of the above Graham bread dough after it has 
risen and has been worked down the second time. Add 3 table- 
spoons warm molasses and Ya cup scalded and warm rich cream 
(or 2 tablespoons melted vegetable fat and 2 tablespoons canned 
milk), and work into the dough until absorbed. Add 2 cups bran, 
and work info the dough by folding it over and over until blended. 
Cover, and let stand until it begins to rise again (about 20 
minutes) ; then roll out to J^-inch thickness, cut with a biscuit 
cutter, lay in an oiled baking pan, let rise about half again their 
original size, and bake in a medium oven. 

106 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INOREDICmS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



GRAHAM BUNS 

2 cups milk ;4 cup melted vegetable fat 

I cake compressed yeast i teaspoon salt 

Vi cup sugar 2 cups white flour 

About 4 cups Graham or entire wheat flour, or enough to make a soft dough 

Dissolve the yeast in i^ tablespoons water, add the milk 
scalded and still warm, a;nd beat in 2 cups white flour to a smooth 
batter. Cover, and set in a warm place until light (about ij^ 
hours). Add the salt, the sugar, and the fat, and mix well. Add 
the rest of the flour,, or enough to make a very soft dough. Turn 
out on a floured board and knead, turning over and over until 
elastic to the touch; then put into an oiled bowl, cover, and let 
rise until when tapped sharply it begins to sink. Work down 
well in the bowl, cover, and let rise the second time until about 
three fourths its original bulk; then turn out on the floured board, 
work thoroughly, cut and mold into small buns, and lay in an 
oiled baking pan. Set in a warm place, with a cloth over the pan 
if convenient, and let rise until very light; then bake in a me- 
dium oven. 

RYE BREAD 

I quart warm water 2 tablespoons sugar 

I cake compressed yeast 2 tablespoons melted vegetable fat 

i}4 tablespoons salt 6 cups entire wheat flour 

5 cups rye flour 

Dissolve the yeast in ij^ tablespoons water, add the warm 
liquid, the salt, the sugar, and the fat, and mix well. Add the 
flours, reserving a large handful of the entire wheat flour for the 
board, and mix into a dough. Knead until elastic to the touch, 
put into an oiled bowl, cover, and set in a warm room to rise, the 
same as for entire wheat bread; and when it has been worked 
down the second time, roll into ordinary rye bread loaves. Lay 
in an oiled baking pan, cut three gashes across each loaf, cover 
with a cloth, let rise until very light, and bake as usual. 

(USB LEVEI, MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 107 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



RAISED CORN BREAD 

3 cups corn meal 2 cups cold water 

9 cups entire wheat flour V/i tablespoons salt 

(ground fine) K cup melted vegetable fat 

3 cups boiling water J4 cup sugar 

I cake compressed yeast 

Put the corn meal into a bowl, and pour on the boiling water 
in a slow stream, stirring constantly. Add the cold water, and 
mix well. Dissolve the yeast in a little water; and when the 
scalded meal is cooled to about 85°, add the yeast arid 2 cups 
entire wheat flour, and mix well. Cover, and set in a warm room 
until light and spongy (about i>4 to 2 hours) ; then add the salt, 
the sugar, and the fat, and mix well. Add the remaining flour, or 
enough to make a medium soft dough, and knead on a board until 
elastic ; then put into an oiled bowl, cover, and set in a warm room 
to rise. Follow the directions for raising entire wheat bread; and 
when it has been worked down the first time, mold, and put into 
pans for baking. Do not allow it to rise too light in the pans. 

PARKER' HOtJSE ROLLS 

1 cup scalded apd warm milk 2 tablespoons vegetable fat 

■ Yi cake compressed yeast 2 tablespoons sugar 

2^ cups bread flour }4 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoons water, add the warm milk, 
and beat in i cup white flour to smooth batter. Cover, and set 
in a warm room until very light (from Ij4 to 2 hours). Aid 
the salt, the sugar, and the fat, and beat into the sponge. Add 
the. remainder of the flour, reserving a handful for the board, and 
mix to a soft dough. Turn out on a floured board, and knead 
gently until elastic, being careful that it does not stick to the 
board. Put into an oiled bowl, cover, and let rise until, when 
tapped, it begins to sink; then work down well, and let rest until 
half again its original bulk. Work together, and turn out on a 
floured board_. Divide into ij^-ovmce pieces, and divide each 
piece into two. Roll out into small, round buns, and lay on a 
well floured board. "When they have risen to nearly half again 
their original bulk, make a crease through the center, with a small 

108 (USE LEVEL MEASlITiEMENTS FOR ALL INCREDIENTS. ) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD ancT COOKERY 



roller the size of a broom handle. Oil one half,^ fold, the other 
half over, and press together. Lay in an oiled baking pan, let 
rise until very -light, then bake in a quick oven. 

SHORTCAKE 

Use the same ingredients as for Parker House rolls, except to 
add I egg, slightly beaten, to the sponge when it is light, and this 
will require yi cup more of flour. Mix to dough, and raise the 
same as the preceding. Roll out to J^-inch thickness, and lay in 
an oiled baking pan. Brush over with oil, and sprinkle with flour, 
then with sugar. Press down with a- spoon so the particles of 
flour get moistened on the top. Let rise until very light, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

I cup scalded milk J4 cup rye flour 

J4 cake compressed yeast }4 cup bran 

I cup Graham flour _ i teaspoon salt 

54 cup corn meaF (lightly ^ cup warm molasses 

toasted in the^ oven) I tablespoon vegetable fat 

J4 cup sultana raisins ^ 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoons water, add the warm milk, 
and beat in the Graham flour to a smooth batter. Cover, and set 
in a warm room for i}^ hours. Add the salt, the warm molasses, 
and the oil, and beat into the sponge; Have the raisins soaked 
overnight, and warmed. Mix all the ingredients with a heavy 
spoon until thoroughly mixed. Cover, and let rise until, when 
tapped sharply, it begins to sink. Then work down well. Put at 
once into an oiled pail with tight-fitting cover, and stearft for 2 
hours. Turn out on an oiled pie tin, and bake in the oven for 15 
minutes. _ ^ cup of rye meal can be substittited for the rye flour 
and the bran, when on hand. 

QUICK METHOD BREAD (for Class Work) 

J4 cup warm water i teaspoon sugar 

J4 cake compressed yeast, i .teaspoon melted vegetable fat 

Scant yi teaspoon salt • yi cup white bread flour 

I cup entire wheat flour 

(IJSG LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) jQp 

8 ■ " 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Dissolve the yeast in i tablespoon water, add the warm liquid, 
and beat in the white flour to a smooth batter. Cover, and set in 
a warm place until the sponge is light and full of bubbles, which 
will require about 30 to 35 minutes. Add the salt, the sugar, and 
the fat, and mix well. Add the entire wheat flour (reserving a 
large spoonful for the board), and rriix into a dough. Knead until 
very elastic, then place immediately in an oiled (i-pound) bread 
tin. Brush over the top with an oiled brush, set in a warm place 
to rise until about double its bulk, and bake in a medium oven. 
Under favorable conditions, this process requires but 2 to 2j^ 
hours in which to have the bread complete. 

GLUTEN BISCUIT 

4 cups strong white bread flour V/i cups cold water 

Mix to a dough; then break and pull apart until very elastic 
and "rubbery," and let soak in water for J4 hour. Wash out the 
starch, changing the water (pouring it ofif slowly, so as not to lose 
any of its gluten) until the water runs clear. Wring out as much 
water as possible, place the gluten in a large soup bowl with a 
tight-fitting plate or bowl over the top, and let stand in a cold 
place overnight to ripen. Drain well. Wet a cutting board thor- 
oughly, and lay the gluten on it. Cut into small squares, about 
the breadth of the thumb nail, lay in an oiled baking pan, leaving 
plenty of space between, and bake in a slow oven until crisp and 

a very light golden color. 

ft 

DIABETIC BREAD (Strong in Gluten) 

Take the above "ripe" gluten, work in warm water to take off 
the chill, drain well, and put into a bowl. Dissolve i cake corii- 
pressed yeast in ij^ tablespoons water, add i tablespoon flour, and 
make smooth. Work this into the gluten with J4 teaspoon salt. 
Then work in gradually i cup flour by pulling the gluten apart 
and dipping it into the flour, until all the flour is absorbed in the 
■gluten. Then work in 2 tablespoons melted vegetable fat in like 
manner. Put into an oiled bowl, cover, and set in a warm room 
to rise. When very light, work down, and let rest until it begins 

JIO (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGEEDIBNIS.) 




SCIENCE <f FOOD catcT COOKERY 



to rise again. Then mold into a loaf, and put into a pan for 
baking. Let rise until light, and bake in a good oVen. 

CUT ZWIEBACK 

Cut stale bread into slices about J4 of an inch thick, put into 
a shallow baking pan in single layers, and set in a slow oven until 
thoroughly dried. Then put into a moderate oven, and allow it 
to browtr to a golden color through the entire thickness. 

PULLED ZWIEBACK 

Take fresh bread, and break carefully, pulling into pieces in- 
stead of using pressure. The pieces should be about the size of 
a medium apple. Proceed to dry and bake, the same as for cut 
zwieback. 

UNFERMENTED BREADS 

Unfermented breads are of two kinds, dough breads and hatter 
breads. Being free from any chemical or ferment, they are whole- 
some, and are easily digested when properly made. Space will not 
permit us to enter into an extended discussion of the effects fol- 
lowing the use of sodium bicarbonate (soda) and baking powders 
in bread making. However, a few quotations from authoritative 
sources may be of interest. 

Harvey W. Wiley, food expert and chemist, in his book "Foods 
and Their Adulteration," under the caption "Harmfulness of Bak- 
ing Powder Residues," page 253, has the following to say: 

"The question of harmfulness of the residues left by the various 
forms of baking powder is one which has beeii of much interest 
to the hygienist and physician. It is not claimed in any case, that 
the residues are beneficial. The principal question which has been 
discussed is. Which of them is the least harmful? This is a question 
which it is not proper to enter into in this manual. It mi°ght, how- 
ever, not be out of place to say that the use of chemical reagents for 
leavening bread is not so advisable as the ordinary fermentation." 

"It would be better, evidently, if all people used more yeast 
breads aiid less baking powder rolls. At the same time, the utility 
and convenience of baking pflwder cannot be denied, and this is 

^ (USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) ux 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



a factor which must be taken into consideration in the general 
discussion and final resolution of the question.'' 

In writing for Good Housekeeping, May, 1914, on the subject 
"The Baking Powder Question," Dr. Wiley says further: 

"As a matter of fact, all baking powders leave residues in the 
food. The alum baking powders leave a residue consisting of 
Glauber's salts (sulphate of soda) and - altiminum hydrate. The 
cream of tartar baking powders leave a residue of tartrate of soda 
and potash, — Rochelle salts: The phosphoric baking powders 
leave a residue of phosphate of lime and soda." 

"According to my own personal view, the continual ingestion 
of bread containing excessive quantities' of mineral ingredients 
of any of the kinds mentioned above is. not desirable, pf the 
three kinds of salts which are 16ft in the bread, there is little 
choice between those produced by the creani of tartar and phos- 
phoric breads." 

"My advice to housekeepers is to use as little baking powder 
as possible. Serve unleavened bread, or that which is leavened 
with yeast. The man who will invent a pure carbon dioxide in a 
compressed form which can be liberated in bread without leaving 
any residue will be a benefactor to the race." 

Dr. I. P. Pavlov, professor in the Imperial Military Acadeniy 
of Medicine, St. Petersburg, writes as follows : "Concerning the ef- 
fects of a continued addition of sodium bicarbonate to the food, — 
such an addition for a length of time markedly depresses the 
secretory activity of the pancreas, and brings it down to an unusu- 
ally low level." "To sodium bicarbonate (soda), an inhibitory 
influence must be ascribed." — "The Wvrk of the Digestive 
Glands," pages 113, 145. 

In regard to the destructive action of soda on vitamines in 
food, the Monthly Bulletin, Indiana State Board of Health, of 
June, 1916, contains the following: "Another disease called pel- 
lagra, which frequently ends in insanity and death, is also produced 
by eating devitamined foods. It is found that soda. kills vitamines; 
therefore we must not put soda into our foods. . . . Biscuits made 
light with bicarbonate of soda (baling soda), and which always 

112 (VSE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIE3<TS. ) 



■ ■ • « ■■■■rtmw 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancT COOKERY 



have a 'soda taste,' are very unwholesome. . . . Cooks should not 
use bicarbonate of soda in cooking dried beans, dried corn, driied 
peas, and the like, even if it does hasten the process." 

BATTER BREADS 

Air -may be incorporated into a batter by beating. The' use of 
eggs is a great aid, as the white of egg, when beaten, readily 
catches air and helps to convey it into the batter. The following 
recipes will help to illustrate these principles. 

WHEAT PUFFS 

- I cup sifted white flour 2 teaspoons tilelted vegetable butter 

Yz cup entire wheat flour i egg separated 

Yi teaspoon salt i cup milk 

Put the milk, the egg yolk, the salt, and the fat into a bowl, 
and mix well. Add the flour, and mix srnooth, using a spoon. 
(Do not beat the batter when the white is beaten separately, or 
the puflfs will blow out in the top.) Beat the white, stiff, and fold 
in the batter by a few long strokes, so as not to break down the 
lightness of the egg too muqji. Dip with a large spoon into hot, 
oiled iron gem pans, and bake in a medium oven to a nice brown. 

CORN MEAL PUFFS 

I cup pastry flour H teaspoon salt 

Yz cup corn meal (toasted 2 teaspoons vegetable fat 

lightly in the oven) i scant cup milk 

I egg separated 

Make a batter of floCir, corn meal, milk, oil, sail, and yolk of 
egg, and stir smooth. Beat the white stiff, , and gradually fold the 
batter into the beaten white, and bake the same as wheat puffs. 

WHEAT GEMS 

I cup sifted white flour 2 tablespoons melted vegetable butter 

Yz cup entire wheat flour J4 teaspoon salt 

J cup milk I 5gg . 

Put the whole &%g into a bowl, add the milk and the salt, and 
beat well. Blend the flours together, and add them gradually, 
beating constantly, and continue to beat for a few minutes after 
all the flour has been added. Add the vegetable fat, and continue. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) nj 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



to beat for a few moments. Fill the hot, oiled iron gem pans, 
and bake in the same manner as for wheat puffs. 

RAISIN PUFFS 

Add Yz cup of seedless sultana raisins to either of the fore- 
going recipes for bread, the raisins having first been washed, 
draiijied, and warmed in the oven or in a closed saucepan long 
enough to soften and swell them, and then cooled. 

AERATED OATMEAL GEMS 

xYi cups milk i tablespoon sugar 

Yi teaspoon salt V/z cups rolled oats (H. O.) 

2 tablespoons melted vegetable fat }4 cup entire wheat or Graham flour 

Put the sugar, the milk, the salt, and the fat into a bowl, and 
mix well. Add the rolled oats and the flour, mix to a smooth 
batter, and set in a cold place overnight. Beat a few hard strokes 
with a spoon, and dip into hot, oiled iron gem pans, and bake 
in a medium oven to a nice brown. 

Note. — Only iron gem pans should be used for aerated breads, 
as it is largely the contrast between the hot irons and the cold 
batter which causes the expansion of' the gems. 

AERATED WHEAT GEMS No. 1 

ij4 cups milk I teaspoon sugar 

J4 teaspoon salt i% cups entire wheat flour 

3 tablespoons melted vegetable fat H cup white flour 

Make a batter of all the ingredients, in the evening, and set in 
a cold place overnight, the same as for oatmeal gems. Proceed* 
to finish and bake the same as for oatmeal gems. 

AERATED WHEAT GEMS No. 2 

Omit I tablespoon of the fat from gems No. i, and add i 
whole &gg, well beaten. Beat the batter a few hard strokes; then 
bake the same as for gems No. i. 

POP-OVERS 

Scant I cup milk i egg 

J4 teaspoon salt 2/3 cup entire wheat flour 

I teaspoon vegetable fat y^ cup white flour 

Mix all the dry ingredients. Pour in half of the milk, and 
stir until smooth and free from lumps. Add the remaining milk, 

114 (USE LEVEL MEASUBEMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



the fat, and the egg slightly beaten, and beat vigorously for a 
few minutes, to incorporate air into the mixture. Pour into well 
oiled, hot iron gem pans, and bake about 30 minutes, in a medium 
oven. Pop-overs bake fairly well in small tins. 

BRAN-FRUIT PUFFS 

I cup milk J4 cup seedless raisins 

1 tablespoon molasses ij^ cups bran 

2 tablespoons melted vegetable fat Yt cup white flour 
Ji teaspoon salt i egg separated 

Put milk, egg yolk, molasses, salt, and fat into a bowl, and 
mix well. Mix the bran, the raisins, and the flour together, add 
the milk mixture, and stir until smooth. Beat the white stiff, fold 
in the bran mixture, and bake in oiled gem pans, in a medium slow 
oven, until a nice brown. 

DIABETIC PUFFS (Without Flour) 

^ cup milk Yi cup finely chopped walnuts 

J4 teaspoon 'salt V/i cups bran 

2 teaspoons melted vegetable fat 2 eggs separated 

Beat the yolks, add fat, salt, milk, walnuts, and bran, and mix 
smooth. Beat the whites stiff, and fold into the batter lightly. 
Bake in oiled gem pans, in a moderately slow oven, to a light 
brown color, as the materials included require little cooking, ex- 
cept to hold up the texture, and for flavor. 

CORN BREAD 

2 cups corn meal 4 tablespoons vegetable fat 

3 tablespoons flour 2 cups boiling water 

Scant 2 teaspoons salt A little cold water to thin to 

3 tablespoons sugar right consistency 

2 eggs separated 

Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly in a bowl, add the fat, 
pour on the boiling water in a slow stream, stirring constantly. 
Add a little cold water as needed, to make a medium, smooth 
batter. Beat the whites until they are stiff and dry. Beat the 
yolks, and fold them into the beaten whites. Into this, work the 
corn mixture, and mix, using the folding motion. Pour into 
a shallow oiled baking pan, and bake in a quick oven. Success 
in making this bread will depend largely on having the wate" 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) Ijg 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancf COOKERY 



boiling hot, and pouring it over the meal in a slow stream, as 
too rapid pouring will dissolve the starch granules, causing it to 
absorb too much water, and as a result, the bread will not be 
light when baked. 

CORN DODGERS 

I cup corn meal 2 teaspoons sugar 

I tablespoon vegetable fat . i cup boiling water 

]/2 teaspoon salt Cold milk or canned milk 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add the fat, pour on the boiling 
water all at once, and stir smooth. Add just enough cold milk 
or canned milk to make the batter of a consistency barely to drop 
from a spoon, but not to run. Drop from the side of a large 
spoon, into an oiled baking pan, in oblong shapes, and bake in 
s[ quick oven. 

Note: — If desired, water may be used instead of milk, a little 
more of the fat being added ; but the dodgers will not then brown 
so readily as when milk is added at the last. If ground whole 
corn meal is used, less shortening gind sugar are needed than for 
the ordinary degerminated commercial corn meal.- 

CORN CAKE 

Take the above corn mixture, and spread it j4 inch deep in 
an oiled baking pan, and bake in a hot oven. 

JOHNNYCAKE 

1 cup corn meal lyi tablespoons vegetable fat 

2 tablespoons whole wheat flour- }4 teaspoon salt 

I tablespoon sugar ' i cup boiling milk 

I egg separated 

Put the corn meal and the flour into the oven until lightly 
toasted. Mix all the dry mgredients. Add the fat, pour on the 
boiling milk all at once, and stir. Two or three tablespoons more 
of cold milk may be added if needed to make smooth, but the 
mixture must not be soft. Beat the white stiff. Beat the yolk, 
and fold it into the beaten white. Add the corn mixture, and 
mix, using the folding motion. Drop from the side of a spoon 
into an oiled pan, in oblong shapes, leaving space between, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Il6 . (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and COOKERY 



HOT CAKES 

yz cup coarse zwieback crumbs i teaspoon sugar 

3 tablespoons flour 2 eggs 

J4 teaspoon salt i cup warm milk 

Heat the milk to about 115°. Mix all the dry ingredients 
well, pour the milk over them, and let stand 10 minutes. Separate 
the eggs. Beat the yolks, and stjr them into the. crumb mixture. 
Beat the whites stiff, fold the crumb mixture into the beaten 
whites, and bake on an oiled soapstoue griddle. 

SODALESS PANCAKES 

I cUp dry, untoasted bread crumbs' J^ cup cold milk 

i}4 cups hot milk 54 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

Dry pieces of stale bread without putting into -the oven; and 
grind through a food mill. Put the crumbs and the salt into a 
bowl, and- pour over them the hot milk. Add the cold milk, and 
set aside. Beat the eggs with a Dpver beater until thick; then 
fold into the crumb mixture, and bake on an oiled griddle, or in 
a heavy skillet. If zwieback or toasted bread crumbs are used, 
blend i tablespoon flour with the crumbs^^ to prevent crumbling. 

DOUGH BREADS 

Success in makiftg appetizing dough breads depends largely 
upon mixing the dough so as not to get any of the flour too wet. 
If the dough is too soft — that is, if the flour gets "water 
soaked" — it will not have a nice grain, and it will be harder 
than when properly mixed. A good recipe for a beginner, is one 
using part white flour, as this .is more easily handled. When 
entire wheat flour alone is used, the dough must of necessity be 
considerably softer, and still not be too 'wet. 

WHEAT STICKS 

I cup white flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

y-i cup entire wheat flour „ l^ tablespoons vegetable oil 

Yi t?aspoon salt Scant ^ cup water 

Put the flour, the salt, the sugar, and the oil into a bowl, and 
rub between the finger tips to distribute the oil evenly. Pour in 

(USE LEVEL MEAStlREMENTS FOB ALL INOHEDIENTS. ) 117 



■■■■■■«■■••■■■ 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



the liquid in a very slow stream, stirring constantly with a fork, 
and remove the portions as they stick together, to avoid getting 
any of the ilour too wet. Mix all into a comparatively stiff 
dough, knead on the board for a few moments, folding it over. 
and over, and pressing together; then roll out to ^^-inch thickness. 
Cut into long strips about Yj, inch in width, roll, each strip slightly 
on the board to remove the sharp edges, then cut crosswise into 
3-inch lengths. Lay in a baking pan, leaving a little space be- 
tween, and bake in a medium oven, to a very light brown color. 

CREAM ROLLS 

lYi cups sifted white flour i teaspoon sugar 

yi cup entire wheat flour Yi cup rich cream 

Vi teaspoon salt Vi cup cold water 

Add the water to the cream, and mix well. Mix all the dry 
ingredients in a bowl, add the wetting very slowly, and mix the 
same as for wheat sticks. Roll and cut the same as for wheat 
sticks, and bake to a light brown color. 

ENTIRE WHEAT ROLLS 

2 cups entire wheat flour 4 tablespoons solid vegetable fat 

(ground fine) 2 teaspoons sugar (or 2 

Yi teaspoon salt "■ tablespoons meltose) 

About Yi cup cold water 

Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl. Add the fat, and work 

it into the flour with the tips of the fingers. Add the water 

slowly, stirring constantly with a silver fork, and work into a 

medium dough (softer than for the preceding recipes). Lay on a 

board and knead, folding it over and over, and pressing together 

to inclose air; or it may be put three or four times through a 

food chopper set with a coarse . knife, instead of the kneading. 

Roll out to j4-inch thickness, cut into strips J4 inch in width, 

and roll each piece sligiitly, to remove the sharp edges. Cut 

crosswise into 3-inch lengths, lay in a baking pan, leaving a 

little space between, and bake in a medium oven about 20 minutes 

or more, to a very light brown color. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUlT 

Use the, above recipe for rolls, cut with a biscuit cutter, lay 
in a baking pan, and bake the same as for wheat rolls. 

118 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE qf> FOOD and COOKERY 



FAVORITE WHEAT BISCUIT 

3 cups entire wheat flour 2 tablespoons sugar or 

Scant I teaspoon salt 3 of meltose ' 

4' tablespoons solid vegetable fat i egg, well beaten 

About Yi cup cold water 

^ Beat the egg with a Dover beater, and add the cold water. 
Follow the directtons for mixing the "wheat rolls," and bake the 
same as the foregoing recipes. 

WALNUT STICKS 

Add Yi cup of coarsely chopped walnuts to either of the fore- 
going recipes, in the mixing. Roll out the same as for wheat 
rolls or sticks, and bake to a very light brown color. 

FRUIT CRISPS 

ij4 cups pastry flour 3 tablespoons sugar 

Yi cup entire wheat flour 2j4 tablespoons vegetable fat 

Yi teaspoon salt Scant J4 cup cold water 

Sultana raisins or figs 

Wash the raisins, and lift them out of the water. Put them 
on the fire with barely enough moisture to heat them through. 
As soon as the water . is evaporated, ' remove them from the 
fire, and grind through a coarse food mill. Mix all the dry 
ingredients. Add the oil, and rub the flour between the hands 
to distribute the oil evenly; Add the water slowly, only sufficient 
to mix into a stiff dough, following directions for mixing cream 
rolls. Work the dough together, and roll out into a long strip, 
about the thickness of pie crust. Spread the fruit over half of 
the dough; then fold" the remaining half over the fruit, and roll 
lightly with a rolling-pin to press the dough together. Cut into 
squares, prick with a fork, lay in a baking pan, and bake on the 
top grate of a hot oven, to a very light brown. Care must be 
used not to overcook this bread, as the fruit sugar burns very 
quickly. Remove from the oven before the fruit has had time 
to cook too much. These may be baked on the inverted bottom 
of a deep bake pan to advantage. 

DATE ROLLS 

Make pastry from the above recipe, roll out to the thickness 
of pie crust, cut into strips 2^2 inches wide, moisten the back 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIEITrS. ) up 



SCIENCE of FOOD ajtcf COOKERY ^ 



edge of each strip, place stoned dates end to end in the mic 
of the strip, and fold up the front edge; then roll over u 
the edges meet, and cut into 3-inch lengths. Bake in a modei 
oven until light brown. 

CORN MEAL CRISPS 

I cup corn meal i tablespoon sugar 

I cup pastry flour 2 tablespoons vegetable fat 

Yi teaspoon salt J4 cup water 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add the oil, and rub between 
hands. Add the water, and mix to dough.- Roll out J4. " 
thick, and cut with a biscuit cutter. Prick ^yith a fork, and b; 
to a light brown. 

RYE WAFERS 

1 cup rye flour Y^ teaspoon salt 

J cup pastry flour Scant J4 cup water, or just 

2^ tablespoons vegetable fat enough to hold the flour 

2 tablespoons sugar together to stiff dough 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add the oil, and rub the fl( 
between the hands to distribute the oil through the flour, h 
the water slowly, and mix the same as for wheat sticks. 5 
out y^ inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter, prick with a fork,- 1 
bake to a light brown color. 

RYE STICKS 

Take the dough of the preceding recipe, and roll out J4 ii 
thick. Cut into long strips about Yz inch wide, th^n again crc 
wise into 3-inch lengths. Lay in a baking pan, leaving a Hi 
space between, and bake to a light brown color. 

BUCKWHEAT STICKS 

I cup buckwheat flour 2j^ tablespoons vegetable fat 

- I cup pastry' flour 2 tablespoons sug&.r 

.J4 teaspoon salt Scant 54 cup water 

Mix and bake the same as for rye sticks. 

BUCKWHEAT WAFERS 

Roll out the dough of the preceding recipe to ^ inch thi 
cut with a biscuit cutter, prick with a fork, and bake to a \\\ 
brown color. 

120 (l-'SB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INQBEDIBNTS. ) 




SCIENCE g/' FOOD and COOKERY 



COMMUNION BREAD 

A careful study of 'the scriptures relating to the f^ast of the 
Passover, which was sacredly observed by God's people in days 
of old, together with those which speak of the institution of the 
Lord's Supper, shows conclusively that the bread used was of the 
unleavened kind. The grain used in the making of the flour, 
morfeover, so far as is known, was ground entire, the white 'breads 
now in commop use being but a modern ijivention. • 

In the strict sense of the word, white' bread is not' a trufe 
symbol of the body of the Lord. He is the great Life-giver; 
but white, bread, if depended upon exclusively for food, leads to 
disease and premature death. In the times of old, special direc- 
tions were given as to what should enter into the making of bread 
for sacramental purposes ^"fine flour" "mingled with.. . . beaten 
oil."; (Exodus 29:40; Leviticus 2:1.) In the making of the 
following breads it is necessary that the flour be ground fme; 
and if the directions are followed, the bread will be tender, and. 
of a good flavor. 

COMMUNION BREAD RECIPE 

2 cups entire wheat floiir 6 tablespoons of purest 

(ground fine) vegetable oil 

Yi teaspoon salt " 9 tablespoons cold water 

Add the salt to the oil in a round bowl, and pour in the 
water in a, very slow stream, beajing constantly with a silver fork 
until thick and white (a temporary emulsion). Pour onto the 
flour all at once, and mix lightly into a dough. Turn out on a 
floured board and knead, folding it over and over to inclose air, 
and pounding it with a woodeij mallet (a wooden potato masher 
is excellent) until quite elastic, which takes about 5 or 6 ihinutes, 
Roll out to the thickness of pie crust, mark with a dull knife 
into j4-inch squares, lay in a baking pan, and bake in a medium 
slow oven. Avoid browning it, except a slight tinge, as browning 
gives it a strong flavor. 



(use level measurements foe all ingredients.) 




XIV. SOUPS 

"My appetite comes to me when eating." 

Soups may be divided into two classes: 

First, broths, or thin soups, to which may be added cooked 
grains or vegetables cut in various shapes and sizes for garniture 
and to give variety and flavor. While these thin soups are lacking 
in nourishing qualities found in those made of the more solid 
foods, they are of value for their richness in mineral salts, and 
for the stimulating effect they have on the appetite. Thus when 
taken at" the beginning of the meal, a;nd in small quantity, they 
may aid in, the digestion of the more solid foods. 

Second, those soups which usually have as their basis cooked 
cereals, legumes, or vegetables forced through a strainer, and 
thinned with the liquid in which 'they were cooked, or with milk' 
or cream, or both milk and cream. Like all other starchy foods, 
soups require the action of saliva for proper digestion, and when 
eaten slowly with some dry food, such as crackers, sticks, croutons, 
etc., are both appetizing and nourishing. 

SPRING VEGETABLE, JULIENNE 



54 cup carrot 

J4 cup turnip 

I stalk celery 

yi small onion 

I cup new peas, or string beans, 

cauliflowerets, or any fresh 

vegetable in season 



I cup shredded potato 

1 tomato 

2 tablespoons vegetable butter 
7 cups cold liquid, preferably 

one half vegetable broth of 
■ some kind, and. the rest water 
Qiopped parsley 



Salt to taste 

(USE LEVm. MEASUBEHENTS FOR ALL INOREDIENTS.) 



■■•■■vtnnin 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Cut all the coarse vegetables into very fine shreds (julienne), 
about i-inch lengths. Put the coarse vegetables, except the 
potato, into a saucepan with the butter and 2 teaspoons salt, and 
let them steam over a medium slow fire for 10 minutes, stirring 
frequently to avoid scorching. This steaming brings out and 
blends the flavors. Add the shredded potato, the tomato, and any 
other of the finer vegetables used, and the liquid, with salt to 
taste, and let boil until all the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. 
Add chopped parsley, and serve. 

NoH. — Adding a few beet leaves (tied together with a cord) 
while boiling, will give a nice color. Remove as soon as the 
desired color is obtained. The red outside skins of onions may 
be used for the same purpose. 

FAMILY VEGETABLE SOUP No. 1 

Take ^ cup each of any -^ or 5 of the following coarse vege- 
tables, measured after being ground through a food mill: carrot, 
turnip, cabbage, spinach, okra, salsify, string beans, peas, corn, 
etc. Add y-2. small onion cut fine, 2 stalks of celery (if at hand), 
and put into a covered saucepan with 2 tablespoons vegetable 
butter and 2 teaspoons salt, and let simmer over a medium slow 
fire for 10 minutes. Add i cup diced raw potato, i peeled and 
cut tomato, and 7 cups of. cold liquid, preferably some kind of 
vegetable broth in part, and let boil until well done. If it becomes 
too thick from the reduction of the liquid in boiling,* add liquid 
to suit, boil up, salt to taste, add chopped parsley, and serve. 

FAMILY VEGETABLE SOUP No. % 

Prepare and cook the vegetables the same as for No. i, except 
that only sufficient water should be used to cook the vegetables 
well done, and the liquid should be reduced down well. Add 
enough hot milk (part cream) to make the desired consistency 
to dish up nicely, reheat, salt to taste, and serve. 

SCOTCH VEGETABLE SOUP 

Soak Yz cup pearl barley overnight, rinse well, drain, add 3 
cups water, bring to a boil, and cook in a fireless cooker, or over 
an open fire, until very tender. Prepare and braise the vegetables 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOREDIBNTS'.) 123 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



the same as for vegetable soup No. \. Add 2 tablespoons browned 
flour, and stir. Add all the liquid, and boil 30 minutes. Add the 
cooked barley, salt to taste, and let simmer for 15 minutes. Add 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

VEGETABLE BROTH No. 1 

■ 2 cups sliced carrot' i sprig of parsley 

2 cups turnip 2 cups raw potato 
I cup cabbage or spinach . i tomato 

3 stalks celery 3 quarts cold water 

1 onion Salt to taste 

Chop all the vegetables, or slice very fine. Add the cold water, 
salt, and let simmer for about 3 hours. Add a few beet leaves 
or 2 tablespoons of roasted and crushed soy beans during the 
cooking, to give a good! color. Strain; salt to taste,, and serve 
plain ; or garnish with soup royale and chopped parsley, and serve. 

Vegetable broth no. 2 

Take broth left after cooking young spinach or new asparagus 
or peas, season with a little rich cream or canned milk, and serve 
with toasted cratkers. 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER (Washington) 

2 cups raw potato, 'sliced ' 4 tablespoons chopped onion 

very thin 3 stalks celery, cut fine 

1 cup shewed corn A sprinkle of savory 

2 cups stewed tomato Salt to taste ■ ' 

2 tablespoons vegetable butter ' 4 cups water ' ^ 

V/i cups hot cream (or i^ cups cold canned milk) 

Put butter, onion, celery, and savory into a saucepan, and let 
simmer over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown. Add 
the potato and the water, salt to taste, and let boil continuously 
for 10 minutes ; then add the corn and the tomato, and let boil 
gently for 20 minutes. Lastly, and just before serving, add tHe 
hot cream or milk. 

POTATO WITH DUMPLINGS 

2 cups finely diced raw potato i tablespoon vegetable butter 

1 cup diced bleached lettuce 6 cups water 

2 teaspoons chopped onion 'Salt ■ ' 

J24 (XiSa LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Add potato, lettuce, onion, butter, and 2 teaspoons salt to the' 
cold water, and bring to a boil. Let boil gently for 10 minutes, 
then add the following mixture for dumplings : 

Dumplings 

1 egg yolk J4' cup milk 

2 teaspoons melted A few grains of salt 

vegetable butter Yt. cup white flour 

Mix into a smooth batter, and pour into a golander over the 
boiling soup, and force very slowly through, so that as the drop- 
lets fall into the boiling soup, they wiir not stick together. Cover, 
and let boil gently for 20 minutes or more. Salt to taste-, add 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

FARMERS' FAVORITE 

J4 cup rich sour cream J4 cup finely chopped carrot 

Yi cup macaroni raw ij4 cups diced potato 

I small onion Chopped parsley 

I stalk celery Salt 

Cook the cream down in a skillet, stirring constantly until the 
oil and the albumen separate and the albumen turns a light brown 
color. (The degree of brow^iing determines the flavor of the 
soup.) Add the diced carrot, onion, and celery, and stir over the 
fire for a few minutes, but do not brown. Add 4 cups cold water, 
the diced potato, and salt, and let cook until the vegetables are 
thoroughly done. Drop the macaroni into 3 cups of boiling 
water, and cook until well done. Add the macaroni water to 
the vegetable soup. Then lay the macaroni on a board and cut 
into small rings. ^ Drop into the soup, and boil up well. Add 
the chopped parsley, and serve. 

BEAN SOUP ARMY STYLE 

I cup navy beans Yz cup diced onion 

7 cups water I tablespoon vegetable , butter 

Yi cup" diced carrot Chopped parsley 

Salt to taste ' 

Wash the beans thoroughly, lift out of- the water, put into a 
saucepan with the cold water, and bring to a boil. Let simmer 
gently until thoroughly done. Add salt while cooking. Put the 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) X25 




SCIENCE gf FOOD ancC COOKERY 



diced carrot and onion into a saucepan, with the vegetable butter 
and J4 cup water, and let simmer until the water is absorbed, 
stirring often. Add 2 cups of broth from the beans, salt to 
taste, and let the vegetables simmer until well cooked. Add them 
to the bean soup, boil up well, add the chopped parsley, and serve. 

NOODLE SOUP 

Wash I cup Lima beans, add i small onion, i carrot, i stalk 
celery, 7 cups cold water, i tablespoon vegetable butter, 2 tea- 
spoons salt, and let boil gently until the beans are done. To the 
yolk of I egg add i tablespoon milk and a sprinkle of salt, and 
mix well. Add % cup white flour, or enough to make a stiff 
dough, and roll out on a well floured board to the thickness of 
paper. Let dry for a few minutes, then cut into strips ^ inch 
in width. Pile these, and shred crosswise into very fine shreds. 
Sprinkle into the boiling bean soup, having first removed the 
vegetables, and let boil gently for 15 minutes. Add a little 
chopped parsley, salt to taste, and serve. 

PUREE OF BROWN BEANS 

Wash I cup of brown beans, add i medium onion cut in pieces, 
2 carrots left whole, 3 stalks celery, 2 teaspoons salt, ij4 table- 
spoons vegetable butter, 8 cups water, and let boil continuously 
until the beans are v^ell done. Add i outer, slice from a loaf of 
stale bread, and i large tomato cut into quarters, and let continue 
to boil for 15 minutes. Add more hot water if necessary. 
Remove the carrots, and mash all the rest through a colander? 
Reheat, s^lt to taste, and serve with bread croutons. Add a little 
cream or canned milk if desired. 

PUREE OF LENTIL SOUP 

Prepare and cook the same as purie of brown beans, using 
IJ4 cups lentils in the place of i cup of brown beans. 

TOMATO OKRA WITH RICE 

% cup rice ' 14 sweet bell pepper 

2 cups sliced okra pods iyi tablespoons vegetable butter 

3 tablespoons diced onion 3 cups stewed tomato 
2 stalks celery 5 cups water 

Salt to taste 

126 ("S^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



•■•■■•*■•■« l«» 



^ y^ClENCB of FOOD cmcC COOKERY 



Brown the rice to a light golden brown in a frying pan over 
the open fire, add the water, and bring" to a boil. Cut tlae celery 
and the bell pepper into small dice, and put into a saucepan, with 
the onion and the butter, and let simmer for lo minutes, stirring 
often, but do not brown. Add the tomato, boil up, and pour 
into the boiling rice. Salt to taste, and when the rice is tender, 
add the sliced okra pods. Let boil until well done, add chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

TOMATO BISQUE 

3 cups stewed tomato 2H tablespoons vegetable butter 

4 cups vegetable broth 2 tablespoons nut butter 
4 tablespoons chopped onion i small bay leaf 

A large sprig of parsley A sprinkle of thjrme 

Salt to taste 

Put vegetable butter, parsley, onion, bay leaf, and thyme into 
a small saucepan, and let simmer for a few minutes. Add all 
the liquids, and boil gently for 30 minutes. Dissolve the nut 
butter in a small quantity of warm water, and add to the soup. 
Mix well, salt to taste, strain, and serve. 

POTTAGE ST. GERMAIN 

2 cups sliced raw potato 2 tablespoons diced onion 

I can green peas 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

3 stalks celery 6 cups water 

Salt to taste 

Add sliced potato, celery, onion, butter, and 2 teaspoons salt 
to the cold water, and boil until the vegetables are well cooked. 
Drain the green (canned) peas, and throw ^the water away. Add 
the peas to the boiling soup, and continue boiling for a few 
minutes. Force through a colander, then through a finer strainer. 
Salt to taste, reheat" and serve with bread croM/onj. A little 
cream or canned milk is an improvement. 

GOLD SOUP 

2 cups scraped and thinly i^ tablespoons vegetable butter 

sliced carrot 2 toasted white crackers 

1 small onion sliced (rolled fine) 

2 cups thinly sliced raw potato S cups cold water 

2 stalks of celery (if at hand) i cup thin cream or canned milk 

I large sprig parsley Salt to taste 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INOBEDIGNTS.) \2'J 




SCIENCE if. FOOD and COOKERY 



Put carrot, onion, parsley, and butter into a saucepan, add Y^ 
cup water, anci let cook slowly under cover until dry, stirring 
often to prevent scorching. Add water, celery, potato, salt to 
taste, and let boil rapidly until the vegetables are well done and 
broken "up. Remove the parsley, and mash through a colander. 
Add the cracker , crumbs, and boil up. Add the hot cream or 
cold canned milk, strain again, gait to taste, and serve. 

CREAM OF BARLEY 

Yi cup pearl barley (Soaked i carrot 

in water overnight) 2 stalks celery 

7 cups water 2 cups cream or canned milk 

I onion Salt to taste 

Drain the barley, add water, carrot, onion, celery, and a tea- 
spoon of salt, and cook until well done and the liquid reduced to 
about 4 cups. Remove the onion and the carrot, drain, and mash 
the greater portion of the barley through a colander, reserving 
aboiit half a cup for garniture for the soup. Add hot cream to 
the barley piilp, and salt' to taste. Add the cooked barley, reheat, 
and serve. (If canned milk is used, it must not be boiled.) 

FAMILY POTATO SOUP 

3 cups sliced raw potato 2 tablesppons vegetable butter 

2- teaspoons chopped onion 2 cups rich milk 

2j^ teaspoons salt Chopped parsley 

6 cups cold water 

Put water, potato, butter, onion, and salt into a saucepan, and 
let boil until the potato is well done and broken. Add the hot 
milk, or thin cream, and beat the soup thoroughly, to break up 
the potatoes. Salt to taste, add chopped parsley, and serve. 

CREAM OF LIMA BEANS 

I cup Lima beans 6 cups water 

I onion V/i cups cream 

I stalk celery Salt to taste 

Wash the beans thbroughly, add the other ingredients, and 
let cook until extra well done. Remove the onion, and mash 
the rest through a colander. Season with hot cream, add salt to 
taste, and serve with croutons. If canned milk is used, it must 
be added unheated. 

128 (US^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOK ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of" FOOD and COOKERY 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE OYSTER 

3 cups sliced vegetable oyster 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

S cups water I tablespoon flour 

I teaspoon chopped onion 2 cups hot milk 

Salt to taste 

Wash and scrape the salsify, and drop into cold water. Slice 
very thin, add the water, the onion, and 2 teaspoons ^alt, and boil 
until verywell done, and the liquid reduced to about 3 cups. Take 
out about Yi of the cooked vegetable, to be used as a garniture 
for the soup, and mash the rest through a colander. Rub the 
butter and the flour together in a small saucepan \)ver the fire, 
add a little of the hot milk, and stir smooth. Add the remainder 
of 'the milk, and bring to a boil. Add this to thfe mashed vege- 
, table dyster, and strain through ^ rhedium strainer. Add the 
cooked, sliced vegetable oysters, reheat, salt to taste, and serve. 

CREAM OF LETTUCE 

2 cups sliced raw potato ^ i tablespoon chopped onion 

4 cups cold water Ij4 teaspoons salt 

I cup shredded lettuce 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

(pressed down) 2' cups hot milk 1 

Add potato, onion, and salt to the water/ and bring to a boil. 
When the potato is about half done, ad(i the lettuce, and cook 
rapidly until the vegetables are well done and broken. Mash 
through a colander. Add the butter to the hot milk, and mix 
with the soup. Salt to taste, put again through a coarse strainer, 
and serve. If cream is used, omit the milk and the butter. 

CREAM OF GREEN PEAS No. 1 

Cook new peas in sufficient water to cover, adding salt to taste. 

Mash through a colander, add hot rich cream to suit, and serve 

with croutons. If canned peas are used, drain, throw the water 

away, add hot water barely to cover, bring to a boil, and proceed 

'the same as with jieW peas. 

CREAM OF GREEN PEAS No. 2 

1 can green peas (drained) ij^ tablespoons veg'etable butter 

2 cups water ' i tablespoon flour 
I teaspoon onion 2 cups milk 

Salt to taste 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.), I2g 




SCIENCE of FOOD cmcT COOKERY 



Drain the canned peas, add the fresh water and the onion, and 
let boil gently for lo minutes ; then rub through a colander. Heat 
the milk, rub the flour and the butter together in a saucepan over 
the fire, add a little of the hot milk, and stir until smooth. Add 
the remainder of the milk, and bring to a boil. Add' the peas 
puree, salt to taste, strain again through a strainer, and serve 
with croutans. 

CREAM OF CORN No, 1 

1 can corn i tablespoon flour 
2}i cups 'water 2 cups hot milk 
15^ tablespoons vegetable butter Salt to taste. 

Have the corn ground througfh a food mill, add the water, and 
let boil gently for 15 minutes. Rub the flour and the butter 
together in a saucepan over the fire, add a little of the milk, and 
stir smooth; then add the rest of the milk, and bring to a boil. 
Add the corn mixture, salt to taste, reheat, strain, and serve. 

CREAM OF CORN No. 2 

Prepare the corn the same as for No. i, but omit the flour 
and butter, and season with good cream or canned milk. 

CREAM OF TOMATO No. 1 

2 cups tomato pulp 2 teaspoons flour 

i]4 cups cream Salt 

Heat the tomato gradually to the boiling point, and thickej 
with the flour made smooth with a little cold water. Heat the 
cream in a double boiler ; then set on the table and pour the 
tomato gradually into the cream, stirring constantly. Salt to taste, 
strain, and serve. 

CREAM OF TOMATO No. 2 

2 cups tomato pulp i tablespoon cream roast flour 

1 cup water ' i cup canned milk 

2 teaspoons vegetable butter Salt to taste 

Bring tomato, water, and butter to a boil. Thicken slightly 
with the flour made smooth with a little cold tomato or water. 
Salt to taste, add canned milk (unheated), strain, and serve. 

I '70 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



CREAM OF SPINACH 

Remove the dry leaves, if any, from 3 or 4 bunches of spinach, 
and wash in several waters. Drain, add boiling water balrely to 
cover, and let boil quite rapidly until- very tender, adding salt to 
taste. Rub together 2 tablespoons vegetable butter and 2 table- 
spoons flour in a saucepan over the fire, add a little of the hot 
broth, and stir smooth. Add this to the spinach,, and boil up. 
Mash through a colander or a coarse strainer, and season with; 
hot cream or cold canned milk. An onion may be boiled in the 
spinach if desired. ' 

FRUIT SOUP No. 1 



1 cup water 

2 tablespoons sago 

I teaspoon lemon juice 



1 cup' blackberry or strawberry 

juice 
Sugar to. taste 



Wash the sago in cold water, and drain well. Bring the fresh 
water to a boil, add the sago, and cook gently until clear. Add 
the fruit juices, also hot, and sweeten to taste. Very nice 
served cold. 

FRUIT SOUP No, 2 

2 cups grape or berry juice 
Yi cup stewed raisins 
6 cooked prunes 



3 tablespoons sago 
Sugar to taste 
2 cups water 



Wash the sago the same as for the preceding, and put to cook 
in 2 cups of hot water until the sago is clear. Stone and quarter 
the prunes, mix all the ingredients, and sweeten to taste. 




(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



131 



XY. 

ENTREES AIND NOON-MEAL 

DISHES 



"Study simplicity in the number 
of dishes, and variety in the 
character of the meals." 




To those seeking to provide a balanced diet, a few suggestions 
may be helpful. In many homes, meat is regarded as the chief 
part of the meal; and, naturally, foods that are prepared to take 
the, place of meat are denominated, "meat substitutes." A wrong 
impression often associated with the use of this word, is that 
meat is a standard by which to judge the merits of foo4s that 
are to take its place in the dietary. 

The nutriment of meat being practically all protein,, a well 
balanced meal is nearly impossible when meat is eaten. There is 
almost certain to be an excess of the protein element in suc*h a 
meal. This excess of protein, as stated in a preceding chapter, 
tends to bring about early degeneracy of the human body and to 
shorten life. Therefore our aim should not be to bring the per^ 
centage of protein up to that contained in meat; for this would 
only serve to defeat one of the main objects in 'view, — that off 
properly balancing the food elements in a meal. 

A comparison between the body and the locomotive engine 
serves as an illustration in a study of the' fuel value of foods. 
While iron is essential to keep the engine in repair, the greatest 
demand will be for fuel with which to heat, the boiler. So in the' 
vital economy, protein is essential for the growth and repair of 
tissue; but beyond this, it is inferior to carbohydrates and fats. 
And as different kinds of wood and coal are capable of giving 
off different degrees of heat, and also giving off that heat in 
longer or shorter periods of ' time, so with different kinds of 
'foodstuffs. Also, certain kinds of coal leave a residue of clinkers 



132 



(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



to be* raked out of the furnace; so when a person overeats of 
protein , foods, there is an extra amount of work for the kidneys, 
to rid the system of accumulated poisons. 

For practical purposes, -it may be said that grains — wheat, 
rice, corn, oats — have an average nutritive value of over 80% ; 
legumes — dried peas, beans, lentils, and peanuts — about 85%; 
nuts — almonds, filberts, walnuts — over 90% ; dried fruits — 
dates, figs, raisins — about 80%..^ Thus we find in grains, fruits, 
and nuts an ample supply of all-round building food. 

The various nut foods ori the market, composed chiefly of 
grains and nuts, coiltain the nutritive elements of food in, a very 
concentrated form, and should not be eaten too freely, but should 
be combined with other foods. A few examples of how they 
may be made into appetizing, dishes will be given in some of the 
following, recipes. Other nut foods of a similar nature may be 
used in place of the ones given, if desired. 

BAKED DRESSING No. 1 

3 cups soaked stale bread i tablespoon brown flour 

2j^ tablespoons vegetable butter 1 egg 

3 tablespoons diced onion Sage and marjoram 

I tablespoon chopped parsley J4 cup milk 
Salt to taste 

Have the. bread soaked in cold water until soft all the way 
through. Put diced onion, parsley, butter, and savory into a small 
pan, and let simmer for a few moments, but do not brown. Add 
the brown flour, and mix. Then add the milk, and stir smooth. 
Press the bread out, not too dry. Beat the &^g slightly, and mix 
all the ingredients lightly with a silver fork. Avoid breaking up 
the bread too much. Put into an oiled baking pan, and bake until 
set and a nice brown. 

BAKED DRESSING No. 2 (Without Eggs) 

3 cups soaked stale bread Sc^nt Yi teaspoon sage or 

2j4 tablespoons vegetable butter nlarjoram 

3 tablespoons chopped onion 3 tablespoons browned flour 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley Y^ cup milk 

Salt to taste 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOK ALL INGREDIENTS.) 133 




SCIENCE of FOOD a«tf COOKERY 



Put butter, savory, onion, and parsley into a small saucepan, 

and let simmer for a few minutes, but do not brown. Add the 

browned flour, and mix. Add the milk, and stir until smooth and 

thick. Press the bread out fairly well, and mix all the ingredients, 

using a silver fork. Salt to taste, and bake in an oiled pan, to 

a nice brown. 

BAKED DRESSING No. 3 

I quart of stale bread, broken 4 tablespoons diced onion 

into rather small pieces ' I te?ispopn salt 

3 cups hot milk J4 teaspoon sage 

2j4 tablespoons vegetable butter 2 eggs 

Put the butter, the onion, and the savory into a small saucepan, 
and let simmer over the fire for a few minutes, to soften the 
onion. Add the milk; and the salt, bring to a boil, and pour over 
the broken bread. Let stand undisturbed for 10 minutes; then 
pour into an oiled baking pan. Beat the eggs until light, and 
pour over the soaked bread, working them into the bread carefully 
with the points of a fork. Bake to a light brown color, and serve 

HOMEMADE NUTTOSE 

I cup tomato pulp V^ cup cornstarch 

y^ cup warm water I teaspoon salt ' 

y-i cup flour 4 tablespoons nut butter 

J4 teaspoon each of sage and marjoram 

Add the savory and the salt to the nut butter, and thin with 
the water, adding a little at a time until you have a smooth cream. 
Wet the flour and the starch with the tomato, adding it gradually, 
so as to avoid lumping. Mix, put through a strainer into an oiled' 
double boiler, and cook from 2 to 3 hours. One half of the flour 
used may be Graham if desired. 

SAVORY NUT AND POTATO HASH 

3 cups diced cold boiled potato 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

V/i cups diced cold dressing or 54 teaspoon sage or marjoram 

y^ cup diced nuttose or 2 tablespoons browned flour 

nut cero Scant i cup milk 

3 tablespoons diced onion. Salt to taste 

■ Put the butter, the onion, and the savory into a small sauce- 
pan, and stir over 1;he fire for a few minutes, but do not brown. 
Add the browned flour, then a small quantity of the milk, and 

134 ' (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



^ 



■ ■••••■■nain 



SCIENCE qf FOOD and COOKERY 



stir smooth. Add the rest of the milk, and boil up. Salt to taste, 
and add the diced dressing or nut food to the gravy. Sprinkle 
the diced potatoes with a little salt; then pour over them the hot 
mixture, and mix lightly. Put into an oiled baking pan, sprinkle 
a little cream or small bits of vegetable butter over the top, and 
bake to a light brown. 

LENTIL AND POTATO HASH 

Use the same proportions of ingredients as in nut and potato 
hash, only substitute ij^ cups cooked lentils, well drained, in the 
place of the diced dressing or nut food, and make the same as 
for nut and potato hash. 

ROASTED POTATO WITH DRESSING 

Cook medium sized pared potatoes in a saucepan until about 
half done. Drain, and lay in an oiled baking pan. Sprinkle with 
salt, then with flour, and brush over each potato with an oiled 
brush. Put into a quick oven, and bake until partly browned ; 
theti fill in between the potatoes with either, of the foregoihg 
dressings, and finish bakihg together. Serve with brown gravy. 

ROAST NUT MEAT WITH DRESSING 

Open a pound can of nut cero or other nut food, split through 

the center length.wise, lay in an oiled pan, brush the top over with 

oil or vegetable butter, and put in the oven until a slight crust 

forms on the meat. Then pour over it a thin brown sauce, and 

continue to bake for J^ hour, basting it now and then over the 

top with gravy. When done, lift out on a carving board, slice, 

and serve with either of the preceding dressings, as follows: Put 

a spoonful of dressing on the platter, lay a slice of nut food on 

the top, and pour a spoonful of gravy on half of the food. Serve 

with a sprig of parsley at one end, and a small piece of cranberry 

jelly, if at hand. 

*NUT AND POTATO PIE 

2 cups sliced raw potato i scant tablespoon flour 

V/i cups cold water Chopped parsley 

I teaspoon onion Nut food or baked dressing 

iJ4 teaspoons salt cold, sliced 

I tablespoon vegetable butter Hard-boiled egg 
Pie crust 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTB FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) ' J^S 



■■■■■»■■■■<■■■ 




SCIENCE gf FOOD and COOKERY 



Add sliced potato, onion, and salt to the water, and cook until 
done. Drain, and lay the sliced potato into an oiled baking pan. 
Put the butter and the flour into a small saucepan, and mix ; then 
add a little of the potato water, and stir smooth. Add the rest of 
the liquid, boil up, and poiir the sauce over the sliced potato. Lay 
a iew slices of hard-boiled egg, and the same of nut cero or sliced 
jcold dressing, over the potato, and sprinkle lightly with chopped 
parsley over all. Cover with thin pie crust, mark into squares 
with a knife, brush over with milk, and bake to a nice brown. 

VEGETARIAN POT ROAST 

4 cups stale bread cut into dice 2 cups well cooked brown beans, 

2 cups hot milk or lentils, well drained 

2 tablespoons vegetable fat 4 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons chopped onion 2 eggs 

Scant Yz teaspoon sage ' Salt 

I cup coarsely chopped walnuts 

Put the onion, the savory, and the fat into a small saucepan, 
and let simmer over the fire for a few minutes, to soften the 
onion, but do not brown'. Add Yi teaspoon salt and the milk. 
Bring to a boil, and pour over the diced bread. Sift the flour 
into a frying pan, and stir continuously over the fire until a light 
brown color. Add the chopped nuts, and continue stirring until 
they are warmed through, but not browned at all. Beat the eggs 
slightly, and add to the mixture ; then add the browned flour arid 
nuts, and mix. Have the cooked beans or lentils drained, and 
mashed very fine or put through a colander, and blend with the^ 
above mixture, with salt to taste. Pack in a well oiled (2-pound) 
bread tin, and bake in a medium oven until set and a nice brown. 
Set aside for 30 minutes to cool partially; then turn out in an 
oiled baking pan, and pour over it a thin brown gravy, and bake 
in a good oven for J4 hour, basting it over the top occasionally 
with the gravy. Serve with cranberry sauce or baked apple. 

WALNUT ROAST 

I cup zwieback' crumbs 3 tablespoons chopped onion 

I cup milk ij4 tablespoons vegetable butter 

Yi cup' ground walnuts i tablespoon flour 

I cup steamed rice i ^gg 

I tablespoon chopped parsley 

126 (use level measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Pour % cup of the milk over the crumbs, and let stand for 5 

, minutes. Put butter, onion, parsley, and a pinch of savory, if 

desired, into a small saucepan, and let simmer until the oniop is 

softened, but not browned. Add the flour, and stir; then the rest 

of the milk, and stir smooth. Add the slightly beaten &%'g, the 

ground walnuts, and salt to taste, and mix well. Add the soaked 

crumbs, and lastly fold in the steamed rice with a fork, press 

gently into an oiled bread tin or small baking pan, and bake to 

a nice brown. This loaf may be turned out into an oiled baking 

pan, when done, and basted with brown gravy, the same as pot 

roast, if desired. . 

IMPERIAL ROAST 

2 cups diced stale bread ij4 tablespoons vegetable fat 

2 cups steamed rice 2 tablespoons flour 

'Yi cup chopped ripe olives 2 stalks diced celery 

I cup chopped walnuts 4 tablespoons chopped onion 

1 raw egg ij4 cups milk 

2 chopped hard-boiled eggs Savory and salt to taste 

Put the flour and the fat into a small saucepan, and stir over 
the fire until of a light brown color. Add the savory; the onion, 
and the celery, and stir for a few moments. Then add J^ cup of 
the milk,*a& stir smooth. Add the remainder of the milk, bring 
to a boil, salt to taste, pour over the diced bread, and let stand 
until cold. Beat the ^^g, and mix all, the ingredients except the 
rice, which is folded in last, using a fork. Press lightly into one 
large, or two small, previously oiled bread tins, and bake until 
lightly browned on top. Serv^e plain, or with cranberry sauce or 
gravy, or with both. 

SCALLOPED POTATO AND NUTTOSE 

Put sliced raw potatoes about 3.^ of an inch in depth into an 
oiled baking pan. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and lay very thin 
slices of nuttose or nut cero over the top. Put in another layer 
of sliced potato, and another layer of sliced nut food; then pour 
over these enough thin brown gravy barely to cover the potatoes. 
Cover with another baking pan of the same size, and bake in a 
good oven until the potatoes are tender; then rernove the top 
pan and brown lightly. 

(USB LEVEL MEASUKEMENTS FOR ALL INORBDIBNTS. ) 1^7 




SCIENCE g?^ FOOD and COOKERY 



POTATO AND NOODLE STEW 

4 medium large potatoes 6 cups water 

2 medium sized onions 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

3 ripe tomatoes i teaspoon salt 

Noodles 

Cut the potatoes and the onions into long, slender pieces, add 
water, salt, and butter, and let boil gently for 5 minutes. Add 
the peeled and quartered tomatoes, and when brought to a boil, 
sprinkle in gradually the noodles, as given on page 264. Cover, 
and let boil gently for 15 or 20 m.inutes; then set on the edge of 
the stove until needed. 

LENTIL AND POTATO STEW 

Wash I cup of leqtils, and cook with salt to taste, until tender 
but not broken. Pare 3 medium sized potatoes, cut them into 
long, slender pieces (4 cups by measure), and put into a saucepan 
with I large onion cut in pieces, or several small ones. Add 2 
tablespoons vegetable butter, and the broth drained from the 
cooked lentils, with additional water to make 3 cups of liquid. 
Add salt to taste, and let boil gently Until the vegetables are tender. 
When satisfied thslt they are seasoned to suit, drop iti, ttfe cooked 
lentils and shake together. Reheat and serve. The amount of 
lentils may be increased with the same amount of potato, to suit 
individual taste. 

POTATO STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

Stew 
2 cups raw potato cut into i teaspoon chopped oiiion 

j4-inch cubes iJ4 teaspoons salt 

2j^ cups cold water 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Bring water, potato, onion, and salt, t6 a boil. Rub the butter 
and the flour together in a small saucepan over the fire. Add a 
little of the potato water, and stir smooth. Add more water, boil 
up, and pour over the potato. 

Dumplings 

J^ cup water J^ cup sifted pastry flour 

2 tablespoons vegetable butter 2 eggs 

A sprinkle of salt 

X^g (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOKEDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD md^ COOKERY 



Bring water, salt, and butter to a boil. Add the flour all at 
once, and stir over the fire until the mixture does not stick to the 
sides of the pan and is perfectly smooth. Set on the table, break 
in I whole egg, and stir with a spoon until the egg is completely 
absorbed in the paste, and the paste is smooth and thick. - Add 
the other ^^'g in like manner. Drop from the side of a tablespoon 
into the boiling stew, having first dipped the spoon into the hot 
liquid to avoid the dumplings' sticking to the spoon. Cover, and 
let boil gently for about, 15 minutes, or until the potato is thor- 
oughly done, and the gravy ireduced to a nice consistency to dish 
up. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, if at hand. 

SAVORY POTPIE 

3 medium sized potatoes V/t tablespoons vegetable butter 

I medium sized carrot 3 tablespoons browned flour 

I onion • ^4 teaspoon sage 

V/z cups cooked lentils _ Pie crust 

A sprinkle of parsley 

Cut the vegetables into long, slender piece's. (The potato 
should measure 4 cups.) Put carrot, onion, 2 cups water, and i 
teaspoon salt into a saucepan, and let boil 10 minutes; then add 
the potato and an additional cup of cold water, and bring to a 
boil. Rub butter, savory, and browned flour together in a small 
saucepan over the fire until blended. Add a little of the liquid, 
apd stir smooth. Add additional liquid, and pour it over the 
boiling vegetables. Salt to taste, and let boil slowly uhtil well 
done; then add the cooked lentils, and shake together. Pour into 
an oiled baking pan, cover with pi© crust, brush with milk, mark 
with a knife, and bake to a nice brown. 

VEGETABLE GLUTEN STEW 

3 cups raw potato, cut in 2 teaspoons salt 

slender pieces 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

. I cup carrot 4 tablespoons browned flpur 

I cup young turnip i cup gluten biscuit, broken up 

I small onion, cut in quarters 4H cups cold water 

Crush the gluten biscuit, and put into a saucepan, together with 
carrot, turnip, onion, salt, and water, and let boil 10 minutes. Rub 
the butter and the flour togetherih a small saucepan over the fire, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) J^g 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



adding the broth gradually, and stirring until free from lumps. 
Pour it over the boiling, vegetables, add the raw potato, salt to 
.taste, and let boil gently under cover until the vegetables are 
thoroughly cooked, and the gravy of a nice consistency to dish 
up. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

RAGOUT (ra-goo') OF VEGETABLES WITH NOODLES 

l}4 cups carrot* i large tomato 
ij4 cups young turnip ' 2 tablespoons vegetable fat 
3 cups raw potatoes , (measured 3 tablespoons flour 
after being cut into slender A sprinkle of savory- 
pieces) 3J4 cups vegetable broth or water 
6 small onions Salt to taste 

Braise carrot, turnip, and onion in a well oiled pan in a quick 
oven, or in a hot skillet- over the open fire. Place in a' saucepan 
with potato, tomato, and liquid, salt to taste, and bring to a boil. 
Brown the flour in the vegetable fat, in a frying pan, and add a 
sprinkle of savory, then a little , of the liquid from the vegetables, - 
and stir smooth. Add more of the liquid, and pour it over the 
boiling vegetables. Let boil gently under cover until well rdone, 
and the gravy is reduced to a nice consistency. Serve with plainly 
seasoned noodles. 

Vegetarian irish stew 

I cup carrot 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

1 cup turnip 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups raw potatoes (all cut % cup diced nut food 

into slender pieces) 3 cups cold water 

6 small onions Salt to taste 

Put carrot, turnip, onions, and 2 teaspoons salt into a sauce- 
pan, add the water, and let boil 10 minutes; then add the potato, 
and bring to 5 boil; Rub the butter and the flour together in a 
small saucepan over the fire until blended. Add a little of the 
hot liquid, and stir smooth. Add more of the liquid, pour over 
the boiling vegetables, and let cook continuously until well done, 
and the gravy reduced to the proper coiisistency to dish up nicely. 
Put the nuttose or nut cero in an oiled pie tin into the oven, for 
a few minutes, stirring now and then. Add to the stew, shake 
together, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

140 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL iNOREDIEiNTS. ) 




{ ^ SCIENCE gfVOOD cmJ- COOKERY 



BEAN AND MACARONI STEW , 

I cup macaroni i medium sized ripe tomato 

I cup Lima or navy beans i^. tablespoons vegetable butter 

1 onion Salt to taste 

Wash the beans thoroughly. Add the onion, J4 teaspoon salt, 
and sufficient water to cook gently until done. Drain, add to the 
broth enough water to make 3 cups liquid, and bring to a boil. 
Add the broken macaroni, salt to taste, and let boil until done ; then 
add the butter and the peeled and sliced tomato, and let simmer 
under cover until of a nice consistency to dish up. Add the cooked' 
beans, shake together, reheat, and serve. 

FAVORITE LENTIL PATTIES 

2 cups cooked lentils, well 2 cups mashed potatoes 

drained and not too soft (seasoned) 

3 tablespoons chopped onion 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

Scant Yi teaspoon sage or sweet marjoram 

Put onion, savory, and vegetable butter into a small pan, and 
let simmer for a few minutes over the fire, to soften the onion, 
but do not brown. Add the- cooked and drained lentils, shake 
together, and mix with the mashed potato. Form into small, round 
patty cakes, and brown lightly in a quick oven or in an oiled skillet. 

RICE AND NUT PATTIES 

2 cups steamed rice Scant J^ teaspoon sage or 

I cup zwieback crumbs sweet marjoram 

J4 cup milk '' I tablespoon vegetable butter 

4 tablespoons chopped onion Salt 

I cup coar'sely chopped walnuts. 

Put onion, savory, and butter into a small pan, and let simmer 
over the fire, the same as for lentil -patties. Add the milk and, J^ 
teaspoon salt. Bring to a boil, and pour over the crumbs. Let 
stand, ig minutes; then add the chopped nuts, and mix in the 
steamed rice, using a silver fork, so as to mix lightly. Form into 
small patties, and brown tK^ same as lentil patties ; or it may bfe 
baked in the form of a loaf, if desired. // used for a filling for 
stuffed peppers (page 172), add an additional J/^ tablespoon vege- 
table butter, and J^ cup diced bell pepper, when braising the opion 
at the beginning; then add i large ripe tomato cut snrall, or y^ 
cup stewed tomato, cook, and mix with the rice. 

f USE. LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 141 

10 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



EGGPLANT SAUTE, FAMILY STYLE 

1 medium sized eggplant i cup cracker crumbs or un- 

2 eggs toasted stale bread crumbs 

Salt to taste 

Pare and dice the eggplant, and cook in enough boiling water, 
with salt to taste, to make it tender. Drain well. Beat the eggs 
with I tablespoon melted vegetable butter, and add to the egg- 
plant. Add the crumbs, mix well, and pour into a well oiled 
skillet. Heat gradually, turning with a- spatula now and then, 
until partly browned and thoroughly heated through, and serve 

immediately. • 

BAKED SAVORY EGGPLANT 

Pare and dice i medium sized eggplant, and cook in slightly 
salted water until tender; then drain, saving the water. Put i 
tablespoon chopped onion,, J4 cup diced sweet pepper, 2 tablespoons 
chopped parsley, J4 teaspoon 'sage or sweet marjoram, and 2 table- 
spoons vegetable butter into a small saucepan, and let simmer over 
the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown. Add 3 tablespoons 
browned flour, and stir ; then i cup of the liquid from the cooked 
eggplant, and cook to a smooth gravy. Then add the cooked 
eggplant. Line an oiled baking pan with thin slices of sparsely 
buttered bread, arid pour over it one half of the eggplant mixture. 
Cover with sliced raw tomatoes ; then add another layer each of 
bread, eggplant, and tomato. Rub a slice of bread through a 
colander or strainer over the top, and press down with a spoOn, to 
moisten the crumbs. Bake in a medium oven for 30 or 40 minutes.* 

BEANS WITH NOODLES 

Wash I cup of navy beans, and cook gently until thoroughly 
done, adding salt while cooking. Drain, and add to the liquid 
enough water to make 3 cups. Add 2 teaspoons vegetable butter, 
and bring to a boil. Sprinkle in the noodles as given on page 
264,, and let boil gently for 15 minutes. Add the cooked beans, 
shake together, reheat, and serve. 

BEAN AND POTATO PIE 

Wash, I J^ cups Lima beans, and cook gently, in plenty of 
water, with salt to taste. Drain, and add sufficient water to make 

I^ (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and COOKERY 



3 cups liquid. Add 3 cups sliced raw potatoes, and salt to taste, 
and let boil gently until the potatoes are tender. Stir i tablespoon 
vegetable butter with i tablespoon flour in a saucepan over the 
fire until blended, add a little of the broth, and stir smooth. Add 
more broth, and pour over the cooked potatoes. Add the cooked 
beans, shake together, and pour into an oiled baking pan. Cover 
with pie crust, and bake to a light brown. ^ 

BEAN AND MACARONI PIE 

I cup Lima beans i tablespbon vegetable butter 

1 cup broken macaroni i tablespoon flour 

Salt to taste 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water until well done, 
saving the water. Cook the beans until tender, with salt to taste. 
Stir the butter and the flour together over the fire until blended; 
then add a little of the bean broth, and stir smooth. Add the rest 
of the bean broth, and enough of the macaroni water to make 2 
cups liquid. Add the cooked macaroni and beanS, shake together, 
and pour into an oiled baking pan. Cover with pie crust, and 
bake the same as bean and potato pie. 

BEANS WITH DUMPLINGS 

Wash and cook ij^ cups navy or Lima beans, with water to 
cover, and salt to taste. Drain, and add enough water or potato 
water to make 2 cups liquid. Mix together in a small sauceps^n 
over the fire 2 teaspoons vegetable butter and 2 teaspoons flour, 
add a little of the broth, and stir smooth. Add the rest of the 
liquid, and when it is brought to a boil, add dumplings as given 
for potato stew and dumplings, page 138. Cover, and let boil 
gently from 15 to 20 minutes; then add the cooked beans, shake 
together, reheat, and serve. 

BAKED MACARONI FAMILY STYLE 

I cup macaroni raw l tablespoon vegetable butter 

I cup tomato pulp A sprinkle of sage or thyme 

I tablespoon onion i egg 

Salt to taste 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, drop into boiling salted 
water, and cook until thoroughly done; then wash, and drain in 

(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOREDIENTS. ) \ax 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



a colander. Put the butter, the onion, and a -Httle sage or thyme 
into a saucepan, and stir over the fire for a few moments, but do 
not brown. Add thfe tomato, and bring to a bo!l. Salt to taste. 
Then pour the hot mixture slowly into the beaten egg, stirring 
it briskly as it is being poured in. Add the cooked macaroni, pour 
all into an oiled baking pan, and bake to a light brown. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN 

Break macaroni into inch lengths, drop into boiling salted 
water, and let boil until thoroughly done. Then wash in cold 
water, and drain well. Mix with enough cream sauce to season. 
Pour into an oiled baking pan, grate fresh bread crumbs over the 
top, and press down with a spoon so they become well moistened. 
Sprinkle over with rich cream or small pieces oi vegetable butter, 
and bake to a nice brown. 

MACARONI EGG SAUCE 

Prepare the macaroni in the same manner as for macaroni au 
gratin. Add a few chopped hard-boiled eggs, working the'm into 
the creamed macaroni with a fork, and bake to. a light brown. 

MACARONI CREOLE 

Cook the macaroni the same as for the preceding , recipe, drain, 
and add sufficient Creole sauce (page 159) to season well. Put 
into an oiled baking pan, let simmer in the oven for 3^2 hour, 
and serve. 

MACARONI IN TOMATO 

Use the recipe given for spaghetti in tomato, and substitute 
macaroni 'in the place of spaghetti. 

MACARONI WITH NEW PEAS 

Season well cooked macaroni with a little rich cream, or with 
canned milk and vegetable butter. H^at in a covered saucepan for 
20 minutes, and serve with a spoonful of peas at one side, or mix 
the peas with the macaroni just before serving. 

144 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



BAKED MACARONI AND OLIVES 

1 cup uncooked macaroni 2 cups of water in which the 
Y2 cup chopped ripe olives macaroni was cooked 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
4 tablespoons tomato 4 tablespoons flour 

Salt and celery salt to taste 

Break the macarotii into J<2-inch lengths, drop into boiling 
salted water, and cook until, it is well done. Put the oil into a 
small- pan on the stove, and when hot, add the flour, and stir until 
browned. Then add the onion and the chopped olives, and let them 
cook a few minutes. Then add the macaroni water and the tomato. 
Let it boil 5 minutes. Have, the macaroni well drained; and while 
it is hot, put it into the gravy. Turn into a baking dish, grate a 
few fresh bread crumbs over the .top, and with a spoon press them 
down so they become moistened ,through. Bake until a nice brown. 

NOODLES AU GRATIN 

Sprinkle the noodles given on page 264 into boiling salted 
water, and let boil gently for 15 or 20 minutes. , Drain well, mix 
with a good' cream sauce or rich cream, and bake the same as 
macaroni au gratin. 

PEAS WITH NOODLES ^ 
2 cups green peas 2 tablespoons rich cream . 

2 cups water (preferably Noodles (page 264) 

potato water) Salt to taste 

Put the peas to cook in boiling water, enough to cover. Add 
salt to. taste. Let them cook gently until tender. Put the cream 
into a small fry pan, and stir over the fire until the oil separates 
from the albumen. As soon as the "albumen turns a light brown, 
add to the stewed peas, and boil up. Add the potato water, and 
when boiling hot, sprinkle in the noodles. Let boil 15 or 20 
minutes, and serve. 

CREAM NOODLES 

Cook noodles Ihe same as for noodles au gratin. Drain, return 
to the saucepan; cover, and set on the edge of the stove. ^ Beat 
one egg with i tablespoon melted vegetable butter and J4 cup 
milk, or use J4 cup rich cream, and stir into the hot noodles. Mix 
over the fire, and let cook only sufficiently to bind them, so they 
will dish up nicely, and not run on the platter. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 145 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



SAVORY NOODLES EN POTATO BORDER 

ly^ cups potato water i egg or Yi cup very rich 
■zYz tablespoons vegetable butter sour cream 

I teaspoon chopped onion Mashed potato 

A sprinkle of savory Noodles 

While the potatoes are boiling, put the fat into a small fry 
pan, and when it is quite hot, add the egg well beaten. (If cream 
is used instead of the egg, omit the vegetable fat.) Stir con- 
stantly with a fork until a light golden brown color; then remove 
from the fire immediately, add the chopped onion and the savory, 
and let stand until the potatoes are ready to be drained. Pour 
as much of the free fat as will drain from the egg mixture, into 
a dish; and to the browned egg or cream, add the hot potato 
water, using additional water if necessary to make the required 
amount. Add salt to taste, and when brought to a boil, sprinkle 
in the noodles, and let cook until quite thick. Finish with a little 
cream or canned milk, and chopped parsley. (The parsley may 
be omitted.) After dishing the mashed potato on a, large platter, 
press to each side, pour the noodles in the center, and serve. 

SAVORY VEGETABLE LOAF 

V/i cups soaked stale bread ij^ tablespoons brown flour 

J4 cup Cooked brown beans Y^ cup milk 

ij^ tablespoons vegetable butter i egg 

I tablespoon chopped onion Sage, marjoram, and salt to taste 

Soak the bread in cold water, and press out lightly. Pu^ 
butter, onion, and savory into a_ small pan, and simmer for a few 
moments, but do not brown. Add the brown flour, then the milk, 
and stir smooth. Mash the beans with a spoon, break the egg 
with a fork, and mix all ingredients. Put' into an oiled baking 
tin, and bake until set and a nice brown. 

SAVORY FRIJOLES WITH RICE 

1 cup brown beans (raw) 2 tablespoons Chopped onion 

I cup tomato pulp A sprinkle of savory 

54 tablespoon vegetable butter Salt to taste 

Braise the onion and- the savory in a small saucepan with the 
butter for a few moments, add the tomato, and boil up. Have 

1^6 (use level measukements for all inqredients. ) 




SCIENCE 8^ FOOD and COOKERY 



the beans well cooked in water, with salt to taste; and when the 
liquid has reduced down low, add the tomato sauce, and let simmer 
for some time. When ready to serve, have hot boiled rice dished up 
on a platter; then shove the rice to each side, and pour the savory 
beans in the center. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

LENTIL AND RICE LOAF 

2 cups Steamed rice I tablespoon browned flour 

I cup lentil puree 3 tablespoons milk 

r tablespoon chopped onion A sprinkle of sage 

I tablespoon vegetable butter Yi cup chopped walnuts 

Salt to taste 

Put the butter, the onion, and the savory into a small sauce- 
pan, and simmer for a few moments. Add the browned flour, then 
the milk, and stir over the fire until smooth. Add salt to taste, 
and mix in the rice with a fork. Mix all the ingredients, pack 
lightly in an oiled bread tin, and bake until hot through and 
slightly browned, on top. 

BAKED RICE ITALIENNE 

1 cup rice (raw) 2 tablespoons diced sweet pepper 
J4 cup macaroni, broken up Salt 

2 tablespoons chopped onion A sprinkle of thyme 

1 small clove of garlic V/i cups tomato pulp 

2 tablespoons vegetable butter 2j4 cups water 

Put the rice into a frying pan, and brown over the open fire 
or in a hot oven, stirring often, to a light brown color. Add ^ 
teaspoon salt and the wat^r, and let codk steadily until dry, having 
the saucepan covered. Break the macaroni into very small pieces, 
and cook in boiling salted water until. thoroughly done; then wash 
and drain in a colander. Put sweet pepper, Onion, garlic, and 
thyme into a saucepan with the butter, and stir over the fire for 
a few moments. Add the tomato, salt to taste, boil up well, and 
pour over the rice. Mix well; then put a layer of the rice-tomato 
in an oiled baking pan, and sprinkle the cooked macaroni evenly 
over it. Put small bits of vegetable butter on it, pour over, it the 
remainder of the rice mixture, bake in a medium oven for half 
an hour or more, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDI^t^TS.) I^? 



SCIENCE 9^ FOOD and COOKERY ^ 



WHOLE RICE WITH PEAS 

I cup uncooked natural rice 2 tablespoons "vegetable butter 

3 cups hot water 4 teaspoons flour 

3 cups cooked new peas j^ cup milk 

Wash the rice thoroughly, drain, add the hot water, and 

boil gently until the water is evaporated and the rice looks d 

then cover, and set on the edge of the stove to steam for 

minutes. Rub the butter and the flour together in a small sau 

pan, add the milk, and stir over the fire until smooth. Add 

cooked rice, and mix with a fork; then add the cooked new pe 

mix lightly, put into the Oven in a covered dish until hot throui 

and serve. 

SPANISH RICE 

Yt, cup natural rice 2 tablespoons diced sweet 

\Y-i cups hot water bell peppers 

V/i cups tomato pt4p i./4 tablespoons cream roast flour 

2j4 tablespoons vegetable butter A sprinkle of sage 

3 tablespoons diced onion Salt to taste 

Brown the rice in a frying pan on the stove, oj- in a hot ov 
until a w^ry light brown. Add the hot water, and let boil gen 
until the water is evaporated and the rice looks dry. Cover, £ 
let steam on the edge of the stove for io' minutes. Put but1 
onion, bell pepper, and savory into a small pan, and simmer 
a few moments. Add the flour, then a little of the tomato, e 
stir smooth. Add the rest of the tomato, and boil 5 minutes. S 
to taste, and pour over the coOked rice. Mix well, and let ste 
until of a consistency to dish up nicely and not run on the plati 

SPAGHETTI IN TOMATO 

^ cup raw spaghetti A small clove of garlic if desirec 

2 cups tomato pulp A pinch of thyme 

2 tablespoons onion 4 tablespoons cream roast flour 

2 tablespoons vegetable butter Salt to taste 

Break the spaghetti into inch lengths, drop into boiling sal 
water, and let boil until thoroughly done; then wash in cold wa 
and drain well. Put butter, onion, garlic, and thyme into a sn 
saucepan, and stir over the fire for a few moments. Add 
flour, and mix; then add a small quantity of the tomato, and 

j^g (use level measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



smooth. Stir in the rest of the tomato, and boil up. Salt to taste, 
add the. spaghetti, and let simmer until it is of a consistency to 
dish up and not run on the platter. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI EN CROUSTADE 
Take the proportion of cooked spaghetti given in the above 
recipe, add sufficient cream sauce to moisten nicely, and pour into 
an oiled baking pan. Chop 2 hard-boiled eggs fine, and mix with 
2 teaspoons chopped parsley. Sprinkle over the spaghetti, and 
press down with a spoon into the cream. Cover with pie crust, 
mark into squares with a knife,, brush over with cream or milk, and 
bake to a nice brown. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI AND CORNLET 

Ya, cup raw spaghetti i tablespoon chopped onion 

1 cup corn pulp ij4 tablespoons vegetable butter 

2 tablespoons chopped sweet i;4 tablespoons flour 

bell pepper % cup milk 

Salt to taste 

Break the spaghetti into inch lengths, cook in boiling salted 
water until well done, and drain. Grind the corn through a food 
mill. Put the onion, the diced pepper, and the butter into a small 
saucepan, and let simmer for a few minutes. Add the flour, and 
stir. Add z. Httle of the milk, and make smooth. Add the re- 
mainder of the milk, bring to a boil, and salt to taste.- Put a 
layer of the spaghetti into an oiled baking pan, then a laypr of. 
the ground corn. Pour half of the cream sauce over it, and work 
it in with a fork. Put in another layer of spaghefti and corn, as 
before, and the rest of the cream sauce on top.- Rub a slice of 
bread through a colander or strainer over the mixture, and press 
down with the back of a spoon, to moisten. Put' small bits of 
vegetable butter over the top, and bake to a nice brown. 

CORN NUT PIE 

I can corn (ground through 2 teaspoons chopped onion 

a food mill) ' IJ^ tablespoons flour 

1 cup rolled zwieback crumbs % cup diced nuttose or nut cero 

2 cups milk 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons vegetable butter Salt to t;(ste 

A sprinkle of sage 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 140 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Heat the milk to about 115°, and pour over the crumbs. Put 
the onion, the savory, and the butter into a small pan, and simmer 
for a few minutes. Add the flour, and stir; then add a Httle of 
the milk from the crumb mixture, to make a little gravy. Add 
the diced nut food, and shake together. Beat the eggs slightly, 
mix all the ingredients, pour into an oiled brick-shaped tin, and 
bake with a small pan of water underneath, until set and a nice 
brown color. 

SCALLOPED VEGETABLE OYSTERS ITALIENNE 

V/i cups macaroni (raw) 

4 cups scraped and sliced salsify (oyster plant) 

Break the macaroni into j4-inch lengths, cook in boiling salted , 
water until well done, and drain. Wash and scrape the salsify, 
slice thinly, and cook in boiling water, with salt to taste, until 
done, and the liquid mostly evaporated. Mix the macaroni and 
the cooked salsify. Add sufficient rich cream sauce or thick cream 
to season nicely, and poiir into an ■ oiled baking pan. Sprinkle 
with fresh crumbs, and press them down with a spoon, so they 
become moistened. Put small bits of vegetable butter over the 
top, and bake to a nice brown. 

CEREAL FILLETS 

2 cups milk y-i cup corn meal, toasted 

2 teaspoons vegetable butter lightly in the oven 

Salt to taste 

Heat the milk to the boiling point, and sift in the corn meal 
gradually, stirring as it is being added, to prevent lumping. Add 
salt and butter, and let cook geintly for about 20 minutes ; then 
pour into an oiled bread tin, and let cool. When cold, cut into 
squares or triangles, and dip first into flour, then into cream, or 
milk and egg, and again into fine bread or cracker crumbs. Lay 
in an oiled baking pan, brush over with cream or milk, and bake 
to a nice brown, in a quick oven. Serve with maple sirup or jelly. 

OLIVE FILLETS 

1 dozen chopped ripe olives J^ cup milk 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 2 tablespoons brown flour 
2 teaspoons chopped parsley Salt to taste 

Sage or marjoram i tablespoon vegetable' butter 

JCQ (\SS& LEVEL MEASUKEMBNTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE qf FOOD and COOKERY 



Put butter, onion, parsley, and savory into a small saucepan, 
and simmer for a few moments. Add the brown flour and the 
chopped olives, and, stir; then add the milk, and make smooth. 
Cut white bread into thin slices, trim off the crust, and spread 
lightly with vegetable butter. Cover with a spread of the olive» 
filling, and lay another slice of bread over this-. Press together 
and cut into triangles. Lay in an oiled baking pan, pour over it 
a thin cream-tomato sauce, and let simmer in the oven until hot 
through, basting now and then with a spoon, and serve. 

VEGETABLE LOAF EN ASPIC 

Wet an ordinary bread, tin with cold water; then garnish the 
bottom with slices of. hard-boiled egg, parsley, and cooked string 
beans or peas, and fill in with cold baked dressing (pages 133, 
134) or nut food cut into large squares, until the pan is nearly full. 

Have a good vegetable broth, boiled with a few outer skins of 
red onions to give color. Take i^ cups broth, i teaspoonful 
grated onion, salt to taste, and add J'2 cup vegetable jelly as pre- 
pared on page 201. Mix well, and pour immediately over the 
food prepared in the dish. Shake slightly, so as to allow the 
gelatin to get beneath the food ; then let stand until cold, invert 
on a platter, and serve. 

NEW ENGLAND DINNER 

4 medium sized potatoes 6 small onions 

4 small carrots Vz small cabbage 

4 turnips V/i tablespoons vegetable butter 

Salt to taste 

Quarter the peeled carrots and turnips. Add the onions whole, 
and put. into a saucepan with water to cover. Add the salt, and 
. bring to a boil. Separate the leaves of the cabbage, drop into 
boiling water, and let boil for 5 minutes. Drain, and add to the 
vegetables.. When the carrots are about half cooked, add the 
potatoes cut into halves, and the vegetable butter. Salt to taste, 
and let- cook gently until all the vegetables are thoroughly done. 
To dish up, lay the cooked cabbage first on the center of the 
platter; then arrange the vegeta^iles around the cabbage, a carrot, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 151 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



a turnip, an onion, a potato, etc., having them so arranged that 
the points turn away from the cabbage. "Pour over a few spoon- 
fuls of the broth from the cooked vegetables, ai^ serve. A slice 
of nut food may be served with each order, if available. 

WALNUT TIMBALES 

2 cups stale bread cut in small dice i tablespoon vegetable butter 
Yz cup ground walnuts i egg 

1 tablespoon onion J4 cup tomato 

I cup milk Sage and salt to taste 

Beat the egg, add the milk, pour over the diced bread, and let 
soak 20 minutes. Put the onion, the sage, and the butter into a 
small pan, and simmer for a few moments. Add the tomato, and 
boil up well. Mix all ingredients thoroughly. Salt to taste. Oil 
5 timbqle molds, divide the mixture among them, set into a- pan 
of water, and bake until set. Serve with tomato or tomato 
cream sauce. 

BAKED CORN TAMALE 

54 cup corn meal (toasted 2 tablespootis vegetable butter 

very lightly in the oven) 2 tablespoons diced onion 

lYz cups stewed corn ' J4 cup diced bell pepper 

2 cups stewed tomato r cup milk 
10 ripe olives i >gg 

Salt to taste 

Heat the milk to the boiling point, add i teaspoon salt, and 
pour gradually over the corn meal, and stir smooth. Add the corn, 
sliced olives, and the egg slightly beaten, and mix thoroughly. Put^ 
butter, onion, and sweet pepper into a saucepan, and let simmer 
for a few minutes. Add the tomatoes, and bring to a boil. Add a 
sprinkle of sugar, and salt to taste; then mix all the ingredients," 
pour into an oiled pan, and bake in a medium slow oven until set 
and a nice brown. 

TAMALE MUSH 

1 quart boiling water i large tomato, peeled and cut fine 
Yi cup chopped onion ' 2 teaspoons salt 

Yz cup diced sweet pepper \Yi cups corn meal, or enough 

2 tablespoons vegetable butter to make a medium porridge 

Put the butter, the onion, and the sweet pepper into a saucepan, 
and braise over the fire for a f^w minutes. Add the water, the 

I£2 ("S^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



salt, and the tomato, and let boil for lo minutes. Blend the corn 
meal with i dup of cold water, and add to the boiling liquid, which 
should measure about 3J^ cups. Let boil slowly over the open fire 
until it thickens; then set into an outer boiler, and let cook for 
2 hours.. Pour into a wetted mold, and when cold, slice, and brown 
in an oiled skillet, or use for the following tamale pie. 

TAMALE PIE 

iH cups carrots ground ij4 tablespoons vegetable butter 

through a food mill i tablespoon browned flour 

1 medium bell pepper cut i cup water 

into dice 2 cups stevved tomato 

2 stalks diced celery % cup diced nuttose or nut cero, 

3, tablespoons chopped onion or i cup crushed gluten, biscuit 

I tablespoon chopped parsley Salt to taste 

Put butter, onion, sweet pepper, celery, and parsley into a sauce- 
pan, and simmer slowly over the fire to soften the vegetables. Add 
the brown flour, and stir; then add the water, the carrots, and a 
teaspoon salt, and let boil gently until the carrots are about tender. 
Add the tomato, and let simmer for 10 minutes longer. Salt to 
taste, and pour into a small well oiled baking pan. Add the nut 
food (if gluten biscuit is used, it should be boiled with the carrot, 
etc., first), and cover with slices of tamale mush. Bake in a 
good oven for half an hour, and serve. 

CORN AND TOMATO SOUFFLE 

I cup tomato pulp i tablespoon vegetable butter 

I can corn I teaspoon sugar 

I cup fresh bread crumbs 2 eggs 

Salt to taste 

Add the butter and the sugar to the tornato, and bring to a 
boil. Salt to taste, and pour very slowly into the beaten yolks, 
stirring constantly. Add the corn, and fresh, untoasted crumbs, 
and liiix. Add salt to taste ; then beat the whites until stiff and 
dry, and into them fold the corn-tomato mixture. Pour into an 
oiled baking pan, and bake in a medium slow oven about 30 min- 
utes, or until set; then remove and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOK ALL INGREDIENTS.) J 53 



#ii£il*ft«kaai«di 



- - - -a ^ , s-«-a-r g 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



NUT CUTLET, FINE HERBS SAUCE 

Lay sliced nuttose or nut cero in an oiled baking pan. Pour 
over it enough hot fine herbs sauce (page 159) barely to cover, 
and bake in a good oven for half an hour, with an inverted pan 
over the top. Remove the top pan, brown lightly, and. serve. 

STEWED LENTILS 

Wash the lentils in several waters, drain, add water to more 
than cover, and let boil slowly until tender, and the liquid reduced 
down well. Salt and a little vegetable butter should be added 
during the cooking, for flavor. An onion may be added, and 
removed when the lentils are done, if desired. 

STEWED LIMA BEANS 

Pick the beans over, wash thoroughly, and lift them from the 
water to remove any small pieces of grit that may be on the bottom 
of the kettle. Put them on the fire in cold water; bring to a boil, 
and skim. Add i teaspoon vegetable fat to each 2 cups of 
beans, and let them boil gently until they are thoroughly done. 
Salt should be added during the cooking, to give them flavor. 

BAKED LIMA BEANS 

. Soak I cup of Lima beans overnight ; and in the morning, slip 
off the skins between the thumb and the finger. Put the beans in 
a small baking pan with Yi teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons brown flour, 
I teaspoon vegetable butter, and enough cold water to cover 
them. Put a pan over them, and set them into the oven to cook* 
adding a little water as needed, so they will not cook dry. When 
they are about done, remove the pan from the top, and let them 
brown lightly. , 

BROWNED BEAN PUREE 

2 cups bean puree i tablespoon cream roast flour 

3. tablespoons rich cream Salt 

Boil beans the same as for stewed Lima beans. Drain in a 
colander, saving the broth for soups or gravies. Mash through 
a colander, having them as dry as possible. Mix all ingredients, 
put into an oiled bakiiig pan, brush over with a little thin cream or 
vegetable butter, and bake in a quick oven to a light brown color. 

154 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOE ALL INQKEDIENTS.) 



K 



SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



RIBBON BEAN LOAF 

I cup Lima bean puree 3 tablespoons rich cream 

1 cup kidney bean puree 2 tablespoons cream roast flour 

Salt to taste 

Cook the beans separately until well done but not soft. Drain 
well, and mash through a colander, having the pulp as dry as pos- 
sible. Add I tablespoon of the cooked flour, and 134 tablespoons 
of cream, to each, and mix w6ll. Place in alternate layers in ' a 
brick-shaped tin, and bake in a moderate oven until hot through 
and a nice brown. Serve with cream tomato sauce or gravy. 

BEAN PATTIES 

2 cups bean puree • i egg 

iH tablespoons vegetable butter Scant Vi cup hot milk 

I tablespoon chopped onion A sprinkle of sage 

3 tablespoons flour Salt to taste 

Cook the beans the same as in the preceding recipe, and mash 
through a colander, having the pulp as dry as possible. In case 
it is too soft, it may be put into the oven for a few minutes. Make 
a paste as follows, for holding the food together: Put the butter, 
the onion, and the savory into a small saucepan, and let simmer 
for a few moments, but do not brown. Add the flour, and mix ; 
then the milk, and stir smooth. Add the ^.^g, slightly broken up, 
and stir over the fire until smooth and a very thick paste. Salt 
to taste, and- add the bean puree. Mix well, and let cool ; then 
roll out into small, round cakes about % inch thick, mark on the 
top with a knife, lay in an oiled baking pan, brush over with 
cream or milk, and brown lightly in a hot oven. 

RICE AND EGG CROQUETTES 

2 cups steamed natural rice 2 eggs (hard boilfed) 

I tablespoon chopped parsley 

Mix the chopped parsley and the chopped"hard-boiled eggs, and 
add to. the rice. Make a paste the same as for bean patties, 
and mix in the ingredient-s. Dip a small timbale or ice cream 
mold in milk, fill with the croquette mixture, turn out on an oiled 
baking pan, and brown in a quick oven. Serve with any desired 
sauce. Chopped, cooked macaroni may be substituted for rice 
if desired. 

(USE LEVEL MEASURBMENIS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) \^t^ 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



BROWN BEANS WITH MINT SAUCE 

Cook brown beans with water to cover, salt to taste, and a little 
vegetable butter. Let simmer until they are well done and the 
liquid is reduced low. Serve wij:h a spoonful of mint sauce poured 
over each order, or serve separately, in bowls. 

STEWED SOY BEANS 

Soak the beans overnight, and cook several hours, until tender. 
Add salt to taste, and let simmer uptil the liquid is reduced to- 
rich consistency; then serve. 

RICE AND SOY BEAN LOAF 

V/n cups soy bean puree Yi tablespoon cream roast flour 

1 cup steamed natural rice 3 tablespoons soy bean broth 

2 teaspoons vegetable butter Salt to taste 

Take the boiled soy beans, drain, and mash through a colander, 
having the pulp as dry as possible. Rub the flour and the butter 
together,- add the broth, and stir over the fire until smooth.' Add 
this sauce to the cooked rice, and mix with a fork. Add the soy 
puree, and mix well. Salt to taste, pack in an oiled brick-shaped 
tin, and bake until hot through, and a nice brown. 

RICE AND SOY BEAN PATTIES 

Take the soy bean and rice mixture described in the preceding 
recipe, and roll out into small patties about ^4 inch thick. Mark 
on the top with a knife, brush over with milk or 'cream,- and browui 
lightly in a hot oven. 

STEWED GARBANZOS (Chick Peas) 

Wash I cupful garbanzos, and soak overnight. Drain, - add 
water, and let simmer until they are thoroughly done and the 
liquid is reduced to a rich consistency. Add salt while cooking. 

BAKED GARBANZOS 

Take the above recipe of cooked garbanzos, pour into an oiled 
baking pan, cover, and bake in a moderate oven until the liquid 
is reduced and the peas begin to brown on the bottorh. Serve 
with baked apple or apple sauce. 

156 (CSE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




BROWN GRAVY 

2% tablespoons solid vegetable fat i small tomato 



4 tablespoons flour 

I tablespoon chopped onion 



2 cups vegetable broth or water 
Salt to taste 



Put the fat into, a frying pan, and when hot, add the flour, and 
stir constantly until a nice brown. Add the chopped onion, and 
continue to stir for a few minutes; then the tomato, and stir for 
about 5' minutes, or until the liquid is mostly evaporated, as this 
will give it a good flavor. Add one third of the -liquid, and stir 
until smooth and free from lumps. Add the rest of the liquid, 
and let boil slowly for lo minutes ; then strain arid serve. 

BROWN CREAM GRAVY 

Cook down J^ cup sour cream, stirring constantly, until the oil 
and the albumen separate and the albumen turns a light brown 
color. Then add enough brown flour to take up the oil thus made. 
Add potato water or vegetable broth, arid finish the same as the 

preceding recipe. i 

COUNTRY GRAVY 

Use the same proportions of flour and fat as in either of the 
two preceding recipes; omit the onion, arid use milk in the place 
of vegetable broth or water. 

EGG GRAVY 

3 tablespoons solid vegetable fat 
I egg Salt to taste 

Put the fat into a skillet, and when quite hot, add the well 
beaten tgg, and stir over the fire until the whole is a light brown 
color. Add the flour, and continue to stir until a nice brown ; then 



4J^ tablespoons flour 
2 cups milk or water 



(use level mea'sukbments for all ingredients.) 



157 



11 



SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



'^ 



add one third of the liquid, and stir .until smooth and free from 
lumps. Add the remainder of the milk, boil up, salt to taste, 
and serve. 

OLIVE SAUCE 

Add 8 or lo chopped ripe olives to the browned flour with 
the onion in making brown gravy, and use a little tomato juice 
instead of the whole tomato, boil up well, and serve; or they may 
be added to the browned flour in country gravy. 

CREAM SAUCE 

I cup hot milk , Scant 2 tablespoons flour 

f/i tablespoons vegetable butter Salt to taste 

Rub the butter and the flour together in a small saucepan over 
the fire. Add ^ cup hot milk, and stir smooth. Add the rest of 
the milk, and boil up. Salt to taste, and serve. 

NUT SAUCE 
Dissolve 2 tablespoons nut butter in a little hot milk, and stir 
into the foregoing cream sauce. 

EGG SAUCE 

Add 2 chopped hard-boiled eggs to the above cream sauce, 
mix, and serve. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

I cup cream ■ 2 egg yolks 

I tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

I tablespoon vegetable butter Salt 

Put the butter and the flour into a saucepan, and stir over the 
fire. Add a little of the cream, and stir until smooth. Add thfe 
remainder of the cream, and bring to a boil. Beat the yolks with 
the lemon juice. Add a little of the hot cream, stirring constantly! 
as it is being added. When all is blended, continue to stir over 
a slow fire until thickened, but do not boil. Salt to taste; and if 
a richer sauce is desired, more vegetable butter can be beaten into 
it. Cream sauce may be used in the place of cream, more of the 
vegetable butter being added the last thing, and beaten in well. 

J eg (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD amC COOKERY 



PARSLEY SAUCE 

Wash, drain, and chop fresh parsley, put into a cloth, wring 
out the water, and place on a , sauce dish. Add enough parsley 
thus chopped to the recipe for cream sauce, to igive the desired 
color and flavor (about 3 tablespoons). * 

TOMATO SAUCE 

I cup tomato pulp J<2 teaspoon onion 

I tablespoon vegetable butter ^ A pinch of thyme 

Scant 2 tablespoons cream roast flour Salt to taste 

Put the butter, the onion, and the savory into a small sauce- 
pan, and simmer for a few moments. Add the cooked flour, then the 
tomato, and stir smooth. Foil up, salt to taste, strain, and serve. 

TOMATO CllEAM SAUCE 

Stir yi. cup hot rich cream or cream sauce into the foregoing 
tomato sauce, strain, and serve. 

CREOLE SAUCE 

2 cups stewed tomato ij4 tablespoons vegetable butter 

Yi cup diced onion . A sprinkle of sugar 

Yz cup diced sweet bell pepper Salt to taste 

i» clove garlic Chopped parsley 

Put butter, pepper, onion, and crushed garlic into a sauce- 
pan, cover, and let simmer for a few minutes, stirring often, so 
as to prevent scorching. Add the tomato, and let boil gently for 
10 or 15 minutes. Add salt to taste, a sprinkle of sugar and 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

FINE HERBS SAUCE 

2 tablespoons chopped onion ' -^ i tablespoon flour 

I tablespoon chopped parsley ) 2 cups strained tomato 

I bay leaf — ~5^ cup vegetable broth or water 

ij^ tablespoons vegetable butter i tablespoon lemon juice 

Braise onion, bay leaf, butter, and parsley over the fire for a 
few minutes. Add the flour, and. stir; then the broth or water, 
and stir smooth. Add the tomato, the lemon juice, and salt to 
taste, and let simmer for 10 minutes. Remove the bay leaf as 
soon as the sauce is flavored to suit. . q 

BRAZIL NUT SAUCE 

' s Brazil nuts ground fine 4 tablespoons flour 

V/i cups potato water or milk 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOH ALL INGREDIENTS.) igp 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Brown the flour in a frying pan on top of the stove. When 

it is a light golden color, add the nuts, and stir through the flour 

for 5 minutes. Add half the liquid, and stir smooth. Add 'the 

remainder of the water, and let it cook lo minutes. Skit to taste, 

strain, and serve. 

MINT SAUCE 

2 tablespoons chopped green mint i tablespoon sugar 

J4 cup boiling water i tablespoon lemon juice 

A pinch of salt 

]?ut the chopped mint into a small cup, add the- sugar, and 
pour on the hot water. Cover, and let stand 20 minutes or more. 
Then add the lemon juice and the salt. 

LEMON SAUCE . 

I cup water i tablespoon vegetable butter 

Yi cup sugar ' I tablespoon cornstarch 

Juice and rind of I lemon A few grains of salt 

Bring the water to a boil. Mix the starch with the sugar, add 
to the boiling water, and stir smooth. Let boil gently for a few 
moments. Add the butter, ihe lemon, and a few grains of^ salt. 
Mix well and serve. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

I egg yolk • I teaspoon sugar 

y^ cup milk A few drops of vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. When hot, stir a little of it 
into the beaten yolk and the sugar, and mix ■rtrell; then pour the 
yolk mixture into the hot milk, and continue stirring until it 
lightly, coats a silver spoon lifted out of ^he same. Set in a dish 
of cold water to cool. Add vanilla flavor. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

J4 cup sugar i slice of lemon 

I tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

I cup boiling water i teaspoon vanilla flavor 

A sprinkle of salt ' 

Mix the sugar and the starch thoroughly. Add a little of the hot 
water, and stir smooth. Add the rest of the water, and the lemon, 
and let boil for 5 minutes. Remove from the fire, add the butter, 
salt, and flavor. Mix well and serve. 

jgg (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




XVII. VEGETABLES 

"Thou shalt eat the herb of the field." 
"Mark how spring our tended plants." 

Vegetables may be divided into two great classes : 

1. Coarse or fibrous tvegetAbles, comprising roots, tubers, stems, 
bulbs, and leaves. 

2. The finer or fruity vegetables, as tomato, squash, pumpkin, 
green peas, corn, immature beans (shelled), cucumbers, melons, etc. 

Vegetables are characterized by their large amount of cellulose; 
and as water enters largely- into their composition, they are by no 
means the rhost nutritious diet. Food, however, in order to supply 
perfectly the needs of the vital economy, must contain water,^and 
indiigestible as well as nutritive elements. Vegetables are therefore 
dietetically of, great value, as they furnish large quantities of 
organic fluids, and are rich in those mineral elements which are 
necessary for maintaining the alkalinity of the blood, and for the 
repair of the bony structures. 

Perhaps no food is more generally used by rich and poor alike 
in making up their daily bill of fare; yet how often the vegetable 
is spoiled in. cooking! In the first place, the portiori of the vege- 
table next to the skin contains the' greater quantity of mineral 



(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



l6l 



—»■■—■*■»# 



SCIENCE of FOOD amC COOKERY 



3^ 



matter and flavoring substances. Hence all thin-skinned vegetables,- 
such as carrots, oyster plant, etc., should be scraped. Others 
should be pared as thinly as possible. 

Vegetables, like all starchy foods, should be put to cook in 
boiling water, as by the application of hot water, the starch grains 
are caused to swell and burst, and this gives the starch an oppor- 
tunity to escape through the cellulose. 

Whenever possible, vegetables should be cooked the same day 
they are gathered. If necessary to keep green vegetables for any 
length of time, do not put them in water, as that will dissolve and 
destroy some of their juices. Lay them in a cool, dark place. A 
stone floor is best. Old vegetables should be immersed in cold 
water for an hour or more just before cooking, to make them 
more tender. 

Young, tender vegetables, as lettuce, tomatoes, water cress, etc., 

served in the uncooked state, are valuable for the water and the 

potash salts they, contain, also for the stimulating effect they have 

on the appetite. 

NEW PEAS 

Shell peas as soon after picking them as possible, drop into 

cold water, and skim off any dry leaves or imperfect peas that 

come to the top. Then dip the peas out of the water with the 

hands, drop them into- boiling water enough to cover, add salt, and 

let them cook gently until they are well done and the liquid is 

reduced to one third its original quantity. Season with a little 

vegetable butter or cream if desired. , ^ 

STRING BEANS i 

String beans should be picked while young and tender. Break 
them between the hands to remove any stringy fiber, and remove 
the ends. Put to cook in boiling water enough to, cover, salt to 
taste, and let boil gently until they are done and the liquid is 
reduced to a nice consistency for flavoring the vegetable. Add a 
little vegetable butter or cream, reheat, and serve. String beans 
that are a little old when picked; should be lifted out of water, 
put into a vessel with a little hot vegetable oil, and let steam for 
15 minutes before hot water is added, and they will be much 
more tender. 

l52 (IISE LEVEL MEASVSEMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS. ) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD a< COOKERY 



NEW ASPARAGUS 

Put the stalks into a deep pan of water, and wash well, that 
sand and grit may sink to the bottom. Change the water, and 
lift them out, tie them in bundles of about 3 portions each, having 
the edible tops even, lay on a board, and trim off the root stems, 
leaving the stalks about 4 inches in length. Drop into boiling 
salted water, and cook until tender. Then set the saucepan off 
the stove until ready to serve. Lift out and drain, lay on a platter, 
cut and remove the strings, and send to the table. Serve with 
rich cream sauce or hollandaise sauce. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS AND NEW PEAS 
Break the tender part of asparagus into ^-inch lengths, and' 
cook in just enough water to cook well. Add salt while cooking. 
Cook new peas separately. Mix, and add sufficient cream or cream 
sauce to season. Shake together, reheat, and serve. 

STEWED TOMATO 

Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes, and let remain a few 
seconds. Then drain, remove the skins and the stems; with the 
hard green parts, and cut into halves; Put into a saucepan with 
about I teaspoon vegetable butter to each 2 cups of tomato, and 
salt to taste. Boil up well and serve. 

BREADED TOMATO 

Cut stale bread into 5^-inch cubes, and brown in the oven until 
crisp all. through. Drop them into the boiling stewed tomatoes, 
and serve. , ' 

BAKED TOMATO 

Select medium sized, solid tomatoes, peel them, and with the 
point of a knife, cut out a little of the hard part of the stem end. 
Lay them close together in a baking pan, sprinkle with salt and 
sugar, and put a speck of vegetable butter in each cavity. Then 
bake until done but not broken. 

SCALLOPED TOMATO 

2 cups toasted croutons i tablespoon vegetable butter 

3 cups stewed tomato A sprinkle of sugar 

Salt to taste 

(USE LEVEL MEAStniEMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 163 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD ancC COOKERY 



Put I cup of croutons into the bottom of an oiled baking dish, 
pour over these 3 cups of tomatoes seasoned, sprinkle the remain- 
ing cup of croutons over the top, press them down with a spoon 
so they are all submerged, put the butter over the top, and bake 
to a nice brown. 

CORN ON COB 

Add milk or a small quantity of lemon juice to the water for 
corn, bring to a boil, put in the ears of cornj boil up well, then 
set on the edge of the stove to draw for 20 minutes. Salt, if 
added, should be put in after the corn is cooke^d, as it toughens 
the kernels and turns them a red color. 

STEWED NEW CORN 

Shave the corn kernels off the sides of the cob with a sharp 
knife, cutting them through the middle, so as to avoid having too 
much of the hulls in the product. Go over the cob again and 
scrape out the pulp with the back of a case knife. Add a little 
vegetable butter, salt, and a little water, and stew gently for 15 
minutes ; or season with a little cream or canned milk. 

GREEN CORN WITH BELL PEPPERS 

Prepare the corn as for stewed corn. Put 1^4 tablespoons 
vegetable butter into a srnall saucepan, add J^ cup finely diced 
sweet pepper, and let simmer under cover until softened, stirring 
often to avoid scorching. Add 2 cups of the corn, and mix, stirrijig 
now and then, and let steam for 20 minutes or more; then serve. 

BAKED CREAM CORN 

2 cups corn pulp V/i cups milk 

% cup light-colored zwieback i teaspoon salt 

crumbs ' ' 2 eggs 

A sprinkle of celery salt 

Warm the milk to about 120°, pour it over the crumbs, and 
let them soak. Have the corn ground through a food mill, mix 
all the ingredients, and pour into an oiled baking pan. Put small 
bits of vegetable butter, or a little rich cream, over the top, and 
bake to a light brown. 

164 (use' LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and: COOKERY 



BAKED EAR CORN 

Draw the husks back on full ears of corn. Rub off the silk 
with a cloth, and wash if necessary. Pull the husk back in place 
and tie with two cords. Lay in a baking pan, or on the grate in 
a good oven, and bake from 40 minutes to an hour, according to 
the degree of heat of the oven. Remove all of the husk except 
one or two thin leaves, and serve immediately. 

STEWED CARROTS, PLAIN 

Wash and scrape tender carrots, and slice thinly, or cut in 
oblong shapes. Add water barely to cover, with salt to taste, and 
let boil gently under cover. When about half done, add 2 tea- 
spoons of vegetable butter for each pint of carrots, and let cook 
until well done, and the liquid reduced so there is but enough to 
flavor the vegetable; then serve. 

STEWED CARROTS, ITALIAN STYLE 

2 cups sliced young carrots 54' teaspoon salt 

V/i cups water . 2 teaspoons vegetable butter 

I teaspoon flour 

Add the water and the salt to the sliced carrots, and let boil 
gently until they are done and the liquid is reduced to J4 cup. 
Rub the butter and the flour together in a small saucepan, add a 
little of the broth', and stir smooth. Add the rest of the broth, 
and boil up. Add the cooked carrots, reheat, and serve. 
CARROTS IN CREAM 

Add rich cream, cream sauce, or canned milk to either of the 
above recipes f9r stewed carrots. Shake together, reheat, and serve. 

CARROTS WITH EGG SAUCE 

Add 2 or 3 chopped or finely sliced hard-boiled eggs to the 
above creamed carrots. Reheat and seiVe. 

CARROTS AND GREEN PEAS 
Use either recipe for stewed carrots, adding an equal quantity 
of cooked peas. Reheat and serve. 

CARROTS WITH TOMATOES 
■ Cook 2 cups of sliced young carrots in water barely to cover 
and salt to taste, until they are tender and the wate'r is- reduced 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INOBBDIENTS. ) l55 



■WlW»l«J«»t 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and COOKERY 



down almost dry. Put 1 tablespoon vegetable butter into a small 
saucepan, add J4 sweet bell pepper cut into small dice, and let 
simmer until softened. Add 2 cups stewed tomatoes, the stewed 
carrots, salt to taste, and let simmer together for 15 minu^s; 
then serve. 

BREADED CARROTS 
Scrub young carrots, and boil in the skins until done. Dip in 
cold water, one at a time, and remove the skin. Split lengthwise, 
sprinkle with salt, dip in cream or canned milk, roll in fine cracker 
crumbs or fresh bread crumbs, and lay in an oiled, baking pan. 
Touch over the top with an oiled brush, and bake for 20 minutes, 
with a pan over the top ; then remove the cover, and brown lightly. 

STEWED VEGETABLE OYSTER No. 1 

Wash salsify, scrape with a knife, and drop immediately into 
water to keep it from turning a dark color. Slice, or cut into 
any desired shape. Put into a saucepan with hot water barely to 
cover, salt to taste, and let boil gently until it is thoroughly done 
and the liquid is mostly evaporated. Season with a little vegetable 
butter or rich cream, and serve. 

STEWED VEGETABLE OYSTER No. 2 

Prepare and cook the vegetable as for No. i, and there should 
be about i cup liquid remaining on 2 or 3 cups of the vegetable 
after boiling. Rub together, in a saucepan over the fire, i table- 
spoon vegetable butter and J4 tablespoon flour. Add a little of 
the liquid, and stir until smooth and free from lumps. Add the 
remainder of the liquid, and boil up. Pour this thin sauce over 
the cooked salsify, reheat, and serve. 

SCALLOPED VEGETABLE OYSTER 

Prepare the vegetable as in the preceding recipe, slice very 
thin, iind cook tender. Put- layers of the oysters in a baking pan, 
, dredging each layer with flour. To each pint of vegetable thus 
prepared, heat i cup of milk to boiling, beat in enough vegetable 
butter and salt to season, pour over the vegetable, and bake to 
a nice brown. 

jgg (USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



STEWED BEETS 

Scrub small beets without breaking the skin, and do not trim 
the roots or the tops too closely. Boil until tender; then drain, 
cover with cold water, and push off the skins with the hands. 
Cut each beet into eighths lengthwise, or if very small, into 
quarters. Put into a saucepan with a small amount of water or 
stock, vegetable butter and salt to suit, and let simmer under cover 
for 20 minutes; then serve. • 

BEETS ITALIAN STYLE 

Prepare and cook the beets as for the above recipe. Put i 
tablespoon vegetable butter and J4 tablespoon flour together in 
a saucepan and stir. Add ^ cup cold .water, and stir until smooth 
and thick. Add J^ cup vegetable broth or water, and bring to 
a boil. Add salt to taste, i tablespoon lemon juice, and the boiled 
and cut beets, and let simmer for 20 minutes or more; then serve. 

BUTTERED BEETS 

Cook the beets the same as directed in the preceding recipe, 
and slice them thin. Put into a saucepan with salt and enough 
vegetable butter to season. Add a little lemon juice, reheat, 
and serve. 

SCALLOPED BEETS 

Add enough rich cream sauce to sliced boiled beets to moisten 
them, and lay in a baking pan. Grate fresh crumbs over the top, 
moistening them with a little cream or milk. Put small bits of 
vegetable butter on top, and brown in the oven. 

SPINACH 

Pick the greens over carefully, and wash in several waters to 
remove grit. If the greens are very tender, lift them out of the 
'water, drain well, and put them into a saucepan with a little salt 
and vegetable butter to season, adding no water. Cover, and cook 
until done, turning them over in the pan now and then. When 
greens are more matured, cook them in deep boiling water with 
the coyer off. When done, drain, cut fine, and season with .vege- 
table butter and salt to taste. Reheat, and serve with quartered 
lemon or hard-boiled egg, or both. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) ig^ 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



CREAMED SPINACH 

Put i^ tablespoons vegetable butter into a saucepan, and when 
melted, add J4 tablespoon floUr, and stir for a few moments. .Add 
I quart of cooked and minced spinach, as given in the preceding 
recipe, and stir over the fire for 5 minutes; then add i cup hot 
cream or rich milk, cpok a few minutes longer, and serve. 

BEET GREENS 

Young beet tops, or the young plants pulled from the bed 
where sown too. thick, make delicious greens, particularly if the 
root has attained some little size. Wash thorbughly in many 
waters, . put into a stewpan ( roots and leaves ) , cover generously 
with boiling water, salt to taste, and let boil quite rapidly for about 
30 minutes, or until tender. Drain, saving the water for. soups 
or gravies, 'and chop rather coarse. Season with vegetable butter 
and salt, reheat, and serve. 

SWISS CHARD 

This veget^able is a variety of the beet in which the leaf stalk 
and the midrib have been developed instead of the root. The 
green, tender leaves are prepared exactly lilje spinach. When 
full-grown, the midribs should be removed, and cooked like celery. 

BROWNED PARSNIPS 

Wash and scrape parsnips, and cook in salted boiling water 
until well done. Remove the vessel from the fire, and let stand 
until cold, preferably overnight. Drain the vegetables, cut in two 
lengthwise, lay in an piled baking pan, brush over each piece wi1^ 
an oiled brush, cover with another inverted pan, and bake for 20 
minutes or a half hour ; then remove the top pan, and brown lightly^ 

BAKED PARSNIPS 

Psepare and cook parsnips as in the preceding recipe, dr^in, 
lay the pieces in an oiled baking pan, pour a spoonful of rich' 
cream sauce over each piece, and bake to a light brown. 

STEWED PARSNIPS WITH EGG SAUCE 

Prepare the parsnips for cooking, the same as in the foregoing 
.recipe. Slice, or cut into small pieces, cover with water, add salt 
to taste, and boil gently until done. Drain, add enough egg sauce 
to season well, reheat, and serve. 

168 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INQREDIENTB.) 




SCIENCE of' FOOD ancC COOKERY 



SUMMER SQUASH 

When young and. tender, summer squash need only be washed 
and quartered, put into a steamer or a strainer over a kettle of 
boiling water, and cooked for about 30 minutes, or until tendet. 
Mash, and season with a little salt, and rich cream or vegetable 
butter. If very vvatery, press out part of the juice between two 
colanders, before mashing. 

BAKED STUFFED SQUASH 

Choose small, tender squash, wash, and split into halves. Hol- 
low out, make a small cavity in the center, and steam in a colander 
over boiling water until done. Lay the halves in an oiled baking 
pan, sprinkle with salt, and spread lightly with vegetable butter. 
Place a large spoonful.of dressing (pages 133, 134) on each piece, 
having thebi well rounded, and bake in a hot oven until slightly 
browned. Serve plain or with gravy. 

SCALLOPED SUMMER SQUASH No. 1 

2 cups cooked summer squash 1 tablespoon vegetable butter 

1 cup milk I egg 

2 cups stale bread Salt 

Cook the squash in salted water or steam until done, drain well, 
and mash. Trim off the brown crust from stale white bread, and 
cut the white part into small dice. Beat the egg, add the milk 
and a little salt, and pour over the bread, letting it soak 10 minutes. 
Add the squash and the butter to the soaked bread, mix lightly, and 
pour into an oiled baking pan. Sprinkle a little cream or butter 
over the top, and bake until thoroughly done and a nice brown. 

« 

SCALLOPED SUMMER SQUASH No, 2 

Wash, scrape, and slice summer squash. "Steam, or cook in only 
enough water to make it tender. Drain thoroughly, add enough 
rich cream sauce to season, and pour into an oiled baking pan: 
Rub a slice of bread through a colander or strainer over the pre- 
pared vegetable, and sprinkle small bits of vegetable butter over 
the top. Press the crun'ibs down ,with the back of a tablespoon so 
they become moistented, and bake in a good oven to a nice brown. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL mOREDIENTS.) jgg 



SCIENCE 0?^ FOOD ancC COOKERY 



-M 



BAKED SUMMER SQUASH 

Cut summer squash into thick sHces, drop into boiling salted 

water, and cook until done. Drain, and lay in an oiled baking pan. 

Put a spoonful of cream sauce over each piece, and brown quickly 

in the oven. „ 

VEGETABLE MARROW 

This vegetable, like melon, cucumber, and pumpkin, belongs 

to the gourd family. Prepare and cook in ' the same manner as 

summer squash. „ 

^ WINTER SQUASH 

Of the varieties of winter squash, probably one of the best 

known is the Hubbard., The skin should be so hard that it cannot 

be punctured with a nail. Break with a hatchet, remove the seeds 

and the stringy fiber, cut into small blocks, and lay in a baking 

pan. Sprinkle lightly with salt, brush over each piece with an 

oiled brush, and bake in a mediuVn oven until tender and a light 

brown color.. Large pieces may be steamed in the, shell, and 

scooped out with a spoon, mashed, and seasoned with a little cream 

or vegetable butter. 

SCALLOPED EGGPLANT No. 1 

Use I medium large eggplant (2 cups after being cooked). 
Pare, quarter, and slice Y^ inch thick ; then drop into boiling salted , 
water, and cook until well done. Drain and mash. Use the same 
proportions of diced bread, milk; and egg as for scalloped summer 
squash. Mix and bake the same as for scalloped squash. 

SCALLOPED EGGPLANT No. 2 ' 

Pare the eggplant, and cut into rather small pieces. Add boil- 
ing salted water, and let boil until tender ; then drain well. Add 
sufficient cream sauce to season, and pour into an oiled baking 
pan. Rub a slice of .bread through a colander or strainer, over 
the cooked food, and press the crumbs down with the back of a 
spoon so as to moisten them. Put small bits of vegetable butter 
over the top, and bake to a light brown color. 

BAKED EGGPLANT 

Pare eggplant, and cut into slices about ^ inch thick. Drop 
into boiling salted water, and let cook until nearly done. Drain, 

1^0 ^^^^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



and lay in an Oiled pan. Pour a spoonful of cream sauce over 
the top of each piece, and brown lightly in a quick oven. 

BREADED EGGPLANT 

Pare, and cut into thick slices. Drop into boiling salted water, 
and cook until slightly underdone ; then drain. Dip each piece first 
into flour, then into cream, or milk and &^%, then into fine bread 
or cracker crumbs. Lay in a baking part. Brush over with cream, 
or milk and a small piece of vegetable butter. Cover, and bake 
until thoroughly done; then remove the cover, and brown lightly. 

(See also Eggplant Saute, page 142.) 

GREEN LIMA BEANS 

Immature, shelled beans of various kinds are a highly valued 
article of diet in almost all countries. The cellulose, so woody in 
the ripened bean, is tender and easily cooked in the fresh shelled 
bean, and the flavor is excellent. They should be freshly gathered 
and shelled, stewed until tender, and the liquid reduced low, and 
seasoned with a little vegetable butter or rich cream. 

, SUCCOTASH 

Add an equal quantity of stewed- corn to the cooked shelled 
beans, shake together, reheal;, and serve. Canned beans or well 
cooked dried beans may be used in the place of fresh beans if 

^^^^'^^^" MASHED TURNIPS 

Pare young turnips, and cook in a steamer, or in a colander 
over a kettle of boiling water, until tender. Mash, season with 
a little rich cream or vegetable butter, and serve. 

STEWED TURNIPS 

Pare young turnips, and' cut into quarters or eighths, length- 

yvise. Put into a saucepan with water barely enough to cover, and 

salt to taste. Let boil continuously until done, and the liquid 

mostly evaporated. Add a little vegetable butter, reheat, and serve. 

TURNIPS IN CREAM 

Cook turnips the same as for stewed turnips,; and when the 
water is mostly evaporated, add rich cream or cream sauce, shake 
together, reheat, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) I^X 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



SCALLOPED TURNIP 

Use the same proportions of bread, milk, and egg as, for 
scalloped summer squash ; and use 2 cups of the foregoing mashed 
turnip, in the place of the mashed summer squash, and bake the 
same as scalloped summer squash. 

STEWED CELERY 

Scrub celery stalks with a brush, and remove, as far as pos- 
sible, any tough strings or fibers that would be unpalatable. Cut 
crosswise into slender pieces, add water to cover, salt to taste, and 
let boil gently imtil tender, and the water mostly evaporated. Sea- 
son with a little rich cream or vegetable butter, reheat, and serve. 
STEWED CELERY WITH PEAS 

Add an equal quantity of cooked fresh shelled peas (or canned 
peas after draining thoroughly) to the above stewed celery. Re- 
heat and serve. 

STUFFED SWEET BELL PEPPERS 

Choose 5 medium sized bell peppers. Wash, cut in halves 
lengthwise, remove the seeds, stem, and cook in boiling salted 
water for 10 minutes. Drain well, and stuff each half pepper with 
the "rice and nut pattie" mixture (page 141), or with the Spanish 
rice mixture, having them well rounded. Place close together in 
an oiled baking pan, add a little of the liquid drained from the 
peppers, or a thin brown gravy, cover, and bake in a good oven 
for half an hour; then remove the top pan, brown lightly, and serve. 

KOHL-RABI ^ 

This vegetable seems to be a variety of the cabbage; but the 
nutritive matter, instead of being stored up in the leaves or the 
flowers, is collected in the stem, which forms a turnip-like enlarge- 
ment just above the ground' It should be used when it has a 
diameter of not more than 2 or 3 inches; for when allowed to 
grow large, it becomes tough and fibrous. 

Wash the vegetable, pare, and cut' in thin slices. Add to 
slightly salted boiling water, and boil until tender, having the 
cover drawn to one side of the stewpan so as to allow the steam 
to escape. Drain, mash, and season with a little rich cream or 
vegetable butter. 

J ^2 (^^^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOREDmMTS. ) 



It*aa»ic«lin 




SCIENCE g/' FOOD and COOKERY 



BOILED ARTICHOKE 

, Put into salted water, for 20 minutes, so as to free from all 
insects. Cut off the stalks and the erids» of the leaves. The hard 
lower leaves also shbuld be removed. Place in boiling salted water, 
and boil from half an hour to 2 hours, according to the age and 
size of the artichokes, or until a leaf comes out readily when piilled. 
Turn the artichokes upside down for a minute, to drain. Serve 
plain, or with hoUandaise sauce, or cold wij:h mayonnaise dressing. 

CAULIFLOWER IN CREAM 
Remove all green leaves from cauliflower, and divide into bou- 
quets or pieces about the size of a large hen's egg. Wash, and 
soak in salted water for 20 minutes. (This will remove any insect 
that might be hid in the flower. ) Drop into boiling salted water, 
and cook until tender ; then set off the stove. Lift the pieces 
carefully out of the water, drain, and lay on a platter." Pour a 
spoonful of cream sauce over each piece, and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

Cook the cauliflower the same as in the preceding recipe. 
Drain, and lay in an oiled baking pan. Pqt cream sauce lightly 
over all. Grate fresh bread crumbs over, and sprinkle with cream 
or small pieces of vegetable butter. Press the crumbs into the 
cream with a spoon to moisten" them, and brown-ki a quick oven. 

STEWED OKRA AND TOMATO 

, 3 large new tomatoes, or 2 cups sliced okra.pods 

I cup canned tomato 2 teaspoons vegetable butter 

Salt to taste- 

"Wash the okra, remove the stem etids, and slice quite thick. 
Add a sprinkle of onion if desired, a little salt, and only sufficient 
hot water to cook, them about tender. Add the butter and the 
tomato, and let simmer until thoroughly done, but not, mashed up. 

BOILED ONIONS 

Remove the outer skins from small white onions, cover with 
water, and bring to a boil. Drain, add more boiling water, salt 
to -taste, and let cook gently until done, and the liquid reduced 
quite low. Add a little vegetable butter, let simmer for 15 or 20 
minutes, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 173 

12 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD ancC COOKERY 



STEWED ONIONS 

Prepare and cook the onions as in the preceding recipe, except 

have a little more liquid on them. Rub together in a saucepan, 

over the fire, i tablespoon vegetable butter and i tablespoon flotir. 

Add a little of the onion broth, and stir smpoth. Add more of 

the liquid, and pour over the onions. Let simmer for lo minutes, 

and serve. 

ONIONS IN CREAM 

Add rich cream or cream sauce to either of the above recipes, 

shake together, reheat, and serve. • 

BOILED CABBAGE 

Trim a small cabbage, cut into halves, rerpove the stem, and 
separate the leaves, dropping them into boiling salted water. Let 
cook gently writh cover off, until done; then drain. Put a little 
cream and vegetable butter into a saucepan, add the cabbage, re- 
heat well, and serve. 

STEWED CABBAGE 

Shred crisp cabbage, add bbiling water, bring qi;ickly to the 
boiling point, then drain. Return to the saucepan, add a little 
vegetable butter and s?ilt to season, and let cook slowly until tender, 
having the cover drawn a little to one side while cooking. 

CABBAGE IN CREAM 

Add a little rich cream or cream sauce to the stewed cabbage, 
reheat, salt to taste, and serve. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

Cut the above boiled cabbage crosswise and lengthwise on a 
board, into i-inch squares. Add rich cream sauce to season, an'd' 
put into an oiled baking pan. Rub a slice of bread through a 
colander or strainer over the cooked cabbage, and press down with 
a spoon to moisten the crumbs. Place small pieces of vegetable 
butter over the top, and brown lightly in the oven. 
BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

Trim very carefully, so as to leave only the hard part of the 
sprout. Place in boiling salted water, leaving the coyer off, and 
cook until tender. Drain, and season with a little rich cream or 
vegetable butter. 

lyA (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



^j f SCIENCE qf FOOD and COOKERY 



SMOTHERED CUCUMBERS 

Pare medium sized cucumbefs, and slice into hot cream sauce. 
Cover, let simmer until they are tender, and serve. 

CUCUMBERS WITH EGG SAUCE 

Add sliced or chopped hard-boiled egg to the above smothered 
cucumbers, shake together, and serve. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Wash the potatoes, and pare thin, removing all specks with the 
point of a knife. Add boiling water, and let boil slowly until 
thoroughly done, and drain; or cook in a steamer. Shake for a 
few moments over the open flame. Force through a potato ricer, 
or mash with a potato masher. Add salt, and a little vegetable 
butter and a little hot milk, or rich cream, and beat until light. 
Serve immediately. 

WARMED MASHED POTATOES 

Heat a lightly oiled skillet. Add the cold mashed potatoes, 
heat gradually on a slow fire, turning with a spatula now and then, 
and when warmed through artd slightly browned, serve at once. 

POTATO DUCHESS 

4 cups hot mashed potatoes Salt . 

I egg yolk I tablespoon vegetable butter 

Thin cream 

Boil pared potatoes, ^vlirain, mash through a potato ricer, and' 
set on the edge of the stove. Add the butter, the cream, the beaten 
yolk, salt to taste, and mix well. Put into a pastry bag with a 
star tube, and press out on an oiled pan in large rose shapes; or 
lay on a board, and form into diamond or leaf shapes. Brush 
over with cream or milk, and bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO EN SURPRISE 
Put the above potato mixture into a pastry bag, and make 
round potato borders on an oiled baking sheet, leaving a hollow 
in the center. Fill this cavity ^ith nicely seasoned green peas or 
spinach. Cover with the potato, brush over with cream, and bake 
the same as the preceding. 

(use level measurements for all INQREDIENTS. ) 1^2 




SCIENCE <f FOOD amf COOKERY 



MASHED POTATO CAKES 

Use the same ingredients as for duchess potato. Shape into 
patties, or round cakes, aboiit ^ of an inch thick. Lay in an 
oiled baking pan, and brown lightly in a quick oven; or brown 
in a slightly- oiled skillet. 

ROASTED POTATOES 

Steam or boil pared raw potatoes until they are about half 
cooked; then drain, and place in an oiled baking pan. Sprinkle 
with salt, then with flour, brush over each potato with -an oiled 
brysh, and bake to a nice brown. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Wash and scrub medium sized potatoes until nearly white. 
Lay on the grate or in a baking pan in a medium oven, and bake until 
they feel soft when pressed between thumb and fingers. If baked 
potatoes rtiust be kept for a time after baking, puncture with a 
fork, to let the steam escape, and wrap in a cloth, or cover with 
another pan and leave in the open oven until needed. Otherwise 
they tend to get soggy. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

Prepare and bake the potatoes the sarrte as above. Cut off a 
slice from one side, lengthwise, and scoop out the potato. Mash 
through a ricer, and season with rich cream, or vvith milk and 
vegetable butter. Salt, and beat until light and very white. Fill 
the skins rounding full; but do not smooth down on the top. 
Brush with cream *or milk, and brown lightly in a good oven. 
Serve immediately. » 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Slice pared raw" potatoes thin. Put a layer of the sliced po- 
tatoes into an oiled baking pan, and sprinkle with salt and flour. 
Repeat the process until the pan is about three iourths full. Pour 
over the potatoes enough milk to cover them. Put small bits of 
vegetable butter on top, and bake until thoroughly done. 

SAVORY POTATOES 

Add finely chopped onion and parsley to each layer of the 
foregoing scalloped potatoes, and bake the same as the above 

176 (use level measurements fob all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



recipe. Water may be used in place of the milk, if desired, a 
Httle more of tlie butter being required than when milk is used. 

POTATO AU GRATIN 

Chop or dice cold boiled potatoes. Add enough rich cream 
sauce to season nicely. Pour into an oiled baking pan, rub a slice 
of bread through a colander or strainer over the top, and press 
the crumbs down with a spoon, so they become moistened. 
Sprinkle with small bits of vegetable butter, and bake to a light 
brown color. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

Put 2 cups milk into an oiled baking pan, and heat over the 
stove until it reaches the boiling point. Add i tablespoon vegetable 
butter or j^ cup rich cream, and enough sliced or hashed cold 
boiled potatoes so that they ^re barely covered with the milk. 
Continue to simmer over the fire until they begin to thicken; then' 
.set in the oven for a few minutes, and serve. 

Note. — If the milk is heated to the boiling point before the 
boiled potatoes are added, they will have a sweet taste, and will 
not be sticky, as they will if put into cold milk and heated. 

ROASTfiB SWEET POTATOES 

Steam or boil sweet potatoes until the skins can be scraped ' off 
easily. Lay in an oiled baking pan and sprinkle with salt. Then 
brush over each potato with vegetable oil," and bake until done 
and a nice brown. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes, steam or boil until tender, drain, 
mash, and finish the same as mashed potatoes. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Boil sweet- potatoes until done, peel, arid cut into quarters 
lengthwise. Lay them close together in an oiled baking pan, dust 
with salt to season, and sprinkle sugar lightly over all. Brush 
over with vegetable ofl, and brovvn nicely. 



(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS. ) I -jy 




xvni. 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS 



"Preserving the health by 
too strict a regimen is a 
wearisome malady." 







Salads, composed chiefly of green, tender vegetables, or of 
fruits and nuts, and served with a dressing, are valuable as a 
means of supplyihg fat. They are also valuable for their mineral 
salts. When carefully prepared and daintily served, salads are 
among the most appetizing adjuncts of a meal, and owe much 
of their food value to this very attractiveness. 

Nearly all vegetables may be served in the form of salads. 
The salads made' with raw vegetables are more refreshing than 
those made with cooked vegetables. They abound in the essential 
vitamine and organic salts so necessary to perfect nutrition, and 
give a pleasant variety to the menu. "* ■ 

Plain salads that reqtiire oil and lemon juice for dressing should 
not be prepared until the moment they are wanted. Should they 
be mixed long before they are served, the lettuce would be found 
flabby, and the dressing watery and ihsipid. 

Garnishing or decorating salads is important, inasmuch as the 
most delicioiisly blended salad will not be appreciated unless it 
is attractive in appearance. Wild flowers meatly arranged with 
alternate tufts of green are pretty during summer. In cold weather, 
garnish with designs cut from beets, turnips, radishes, carrots, etc. 



DRESSINGS 

MAYONNAISE 

2 yolks of eggs lyi cups best vegetable oil 

jfi teaspoon salt About 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

I^g (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



•vsatiniraain 



^J ^ SCIENCE of FOOD and CCXDKERy" 



Put the egg yolks ,in a small bowl, add the' salt and a half 
teaspoon lemon juice, and mix well. Add the oil gradu^ly, drop 
by drop at first, but faster as you proceed, and stir constantly. 
As the mixture thickens, thin it with lemon juice. Add oil and 
lemon juice alternately until all is used, stirring or beating con- 
stantly. Keep well covered and in a cool place when not in use. 

Mayonnaise may be made more economically and in less time 
by using the whole egg, as the white of egg takes up the oil more 
readily than does the yolk used by itselif, and it also takes up more 
oil proportionately than the yolk. However, the color and the 
flavor will not be quite so rich as when the yolks only are used; 
but this lack of coloi- can be overcome by the use of a little 
vegetable butter coloring, and the difference is not noticed by many. 

ECONOMICAL MAYONNAISE No. 1 

I whole egg About 3 cups best vegetable oil 

Scant Yi teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

' Beat the egg with a Dover beater. Add the oil slowly at first ; 
then increase as the egg takes up the oil, until all is used, adding 
lemon juice when it gets too thick, to make the dressing of the 
desired consistency. Add a few drops of vegetable butter color, 
and set in a cool place. 

ECONOMICAL MAYONNAISE No. 2 

I egg iVi cups best vegetable oil 

1 Clip water J4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons cornstarch About 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Bring the water to a boil, and thicken with the cornstarch made 
smooth in 3 tablespoons cold water. Boil up well, and set aside 
until partly cool. (It should be used before it gets cold, or it 
will be lumpy.) Beat the &^^ and the salt with^ a Dover &gg 
beater. Add the oil, the lemon juice, and the cooked starch by 
turn, slowly at first, and increase as the egg takes up the oil and 
the starch, until all is used. Add salt to taste, and butter color 
to make the color of ordinary mayonnaise, and set in a cool place. 

Note. — Mayonnaise made with cooked starch will not keep 
sweet more than two days, and should be made for immediate 
use only. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) J^Q 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



MAYONNAISE WITHOUT EGG 

Put J/^ cup canned milk into a small round bowl. Add the oil 
very slowly at first, stirring constantly, and increase as the milk 
takes up the oil. Thin with lemon juice, add salt to taste and a 
few drops of butter color, and use the same as ordinary mayojinaise. 

CREAM MAYONNAISE 

Add rich cream, slightly whipped, to thick mayonnaise dress- 
ing, in the proportion of about J^ cream to Yz mayonnaise, beating 
the dressing the same as when adding the oil. Canned milk may 
be used in the place of cream, in smaller proportion. Stop when 
the mayonnaise is thinned sufficiently. 

•BOILED DRESSING 

Yz cup cream 2 teaspoons vegetable butter 

Y-i teaspoon cornstarch .1 egg yolk 

2 tablespoons lemon juice Salt to taste 

Heat the cream in a double boiler. Rub the starch smooth with 
a little cold milk, and stir into the hot cream. Cover, and let cook 
for 10 minutes. Beat the yolk, add the butter and the lemon 
juice, and mix well. Pour the hot cream gradually into the yolk 
mixture, stirring as it is being poured in. Then return to the fire, 
and continue stirring until of the right thickness. Salt to taste, 
and let cool. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

ij^ tablespoons olive or Scant tablespocin lemon juice 

cottonseed oil y-i teaspoon grated onion 

A few grains of salt 

Dissolve the salt in the oil with a spoon. Add the ingredients 
in the order given, and beat with a spoon to eniulsify the liquids. 
Use immediately. 

CREAM DRESSING 

Y2 cup thick cream . i tablespoon sugar 

3 tablespoons lemon juice Salt 

Whip the cream until quite thick but not stiff. Then add 
sugar, salt, and lemon juice, and serve. 

jgO (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



SCIENCE ^ FOOD ancC COOKERY 



QUEEN FRUIT SAUCE 

Vi cup light-colored fruit juice 3 tablespoons sugar 

(pineapple or orange) i teaspoon cornstarch 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 egg yolk 

A few grains of salt 

Put the juices into a small saucepan and bring to a boil. Mix 
the starch with the sugar, and add enough of the fruit juices 
to mix smooth. Beat the yolk slightly, and add to the sugar and 
starch mixture. Then pour in gradually the hot liquid, stirring 
meanwhile. Continue to stir on the edge of the stove until it 
thickens slightly, but do not boil. Add the salt, and let cool. 

Note. — Slightly whipped cream, in the proportion of Yz cream 
to Yz sauce, added to this sauce when cold, is excellent. 



VEGETABLE SALADS 

LETTUCE AND TOMATO SALAD 

Arrange .lettuce leaves on a plate. Have a ripe tomato peeled 
and cooled. Lay on lettuce leaves. Run a sharp knife across the 
middle of the tomato, cutting it nearly in two, then crosswise, so 
that the four quarters fall back, yet hold together underneath. 
Drop a teaspoon of mayonnaise into the center of the tomato, 
and serve. 

COMBINATION SALAD No. 1 

Lay crisp lettuce on a platter. Arrange over it peeled and 
quartered tomatoes, sliced cucumbers, a few sprigs of parsley, 
and serve with mayonnaise.. Sliced green onion may be added 
if desired. 

COMBINATION SALAD No. 2 

Sliced tomato Sliced radishes 

Sliced cucumber , Lettuce 

■ Sliced green onion French dressing 

Pare the vegetables, slice very thin, and put into a bOwl. Tear 
the lettuce into large pieces, add to the vegetables, and set on ice 
if available. Just before serving, pour over enough French dress- 
ing to Season, using it scantily. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) \%\ 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



POINSETTIA TOMATO 

Select a small ripe tomato, wash, and wipe with a cloth. With 
a sharp-pointed knife, cut through the skin, from the stem end, 
across the tomato, dividing the skin into about 8 parts, so as to 
resemble poinsettia leaves. Run the blade of a penknife under 
each leaf, and pull it back on the plate, until all the leaves lie on 
the plate, and attached to the tomato stem. Cut the tomato cross- 
wise the same as for lettuce and tomato salad, and serve with 
mayonnaise. i 

TOMATO SALAD FRANCAIS 

Pour boiling water over medium small ripe tomatoes, and drain 
immediately, covering with cold water. Remove the skins from the 
tomatoes, hollow out carefully, and fill until well rounded with a 
mixture of chopped celery, finely diced cucumber, and torhato, sea- 
soned with mayonnaise and chopped parsley. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

STUFFED TOMATO , 

Prepare the same as above, and use as a filling, chopped celery, 
finely chopped walnuts, and the solid part of ripe tomato chopped, 
seasoned with mayonnaise and chopped parsley. 

TOMATO MEXICANA 

Mix finely chopped bell pepper, olives, parsley, and a sprinkle 
of onion, in a bowl, and spread this over thick slices of raw tomato. 
Serve with mayonnaise, on a lettuce leaf. 

TOMATO EN SURPRISE 
Scald and peel a tomato. Cut off a liberal slice from the blos- 
som end, which must be kept for covering. Hollow out the center 
of the tomato, and turn upside down in a dish to drain. Cut 
cooked asparagus tips into J^-inch lengths, season with mayonnaise, 
and refill the cavity in the tomato. Cover with the slice of tomato, 
and s^rve on a lettuce leaf. 

CUCUMBER SALAD AU NATURAL 

Select well shaped, green-colored cucumbers. Wash, and wipe 
dry. From the blossom end, cut under the skin with a sharp 
knife, almost to the opposite end, but leaving fast at the stem end, 
thus making four green leaves of the skin, the length of the cu- 

jg2 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD aV COOKERY 



cumber, one on each side, with a space between. Cut near the 
stem end with the point of a sharp knife, so that the white part 
may be removed without breaking the leaves formed. , Finish 
peeling the part removed, and slice thin. Keep the slices together 
in natural shape, so that the whole may be fitted again between 
the green leaves, 'or skin, of the cucumber. Lay on a white platter, 
in the natural skin thus cut representing long leaves. Serve 
separately with mayonnaise or French dressing. 

SLICED CUCUMBERS 

Have the cucumbers as cold and crisp as possible. Pare, and 
slice thin. Just before serving, add a little French dressing and 
chopped parsley. , Or they may be seasoned with lemon juice, salt, 
and a sprinkle of sugar. 

GOLDEN STATE SALAD 

I cup young carrots, i cup young turnips, i cup radishes, meas- 
ured after being ground through a food chopper^ Add i cup 
finely shaved celery, and season with chopped green onion to 
suit, J4 cup finely diced pimento (if at hand), and a liberal 
quantity of chopped pirsley. Mix with • plenty of mayonnaise, 
and serve on a lettuce leaf. 

CELERY AND CARROT 

2 cups young carrot (measured i cup shredded celery 

after being ground through I diced green onion 

a food chopper) ' Chopped parsley 

Mix, and season with plenty of mayonnaise. 

CABBAGE AND CARROT SALAD 

I cup raw carrot ground 2 cups finely shredded cabbage 

. through a food mill 5 sliced green onions 

Yi, cup chopped parsley 

Mix, and season with plenty of mayonnaise. Serve on a 

lettuce leaf. 

COLD SLAW 

Shred crisp, young cabbage very fine, and season with chopped 

onion and parsley. Add mayonnaise, or French dressing, or 

cream di-essing, and serve on a lettuce leaf. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) l8'? 




SCIENCE of FOOD anc{ COOKERY 



CARROT AND BELL PEPPER SALAD 

Grind through a mill i sweefbell pepper (seeds removed), and 
sufficient young carrots to make i^ cups all together. Add twice 
the quantity of chopped crisp cabbage, with chopped parsley and 
onion to suit. Blend with plenty of mayonnaise or cream mayon- 
naise, and serve on a lettuce leaf. 

BEAN AND CABBAGE SALAD 

1 cup boiled or baked beans I cup finely diced- cabbage 

(not broken much) i teaspoon chopped onion 

Chopped parsley 

Mix, and season with boiled dressing or Cream mayonnaise. 
Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

POTATO SALAD 

Cold boiled potato Hard-boiled egg 

Chopped or grated onion ' Chopped parsley 

Boiled dressing 

Peel the potatoes, quarter lengthwise, and slice very thin. Add 
chopped onion and parsley, sprinkle with salt, and season with 
boiled dressing. To dish up, pile on a platter or a plate in oblong 
shape, having the. salad piled high and narrow, leaving the sides 
of the plate vacant for garnitures. Garnish with lettute, and 
hard-boiled egg cut into quarters-, at each side, and sliced boiled, 
beet cut into fancy shapes, at each end and on top.. 

BEET AND POTATO SALAD 

2 cups diced cold boiled potato 2 chopped hard-boiled eggs 
I cup diced boiled beet 2 teaspoons chopped onion 

Chopped parsley 

Mix, and blend with boiled dressing or cream mayonnaise. 
Serve on a lettuce leaf. * • ■■ . 

ITALIAN SALAD ^ 

I cup cooked macaroni cut in ^ cup. finely diced carrot 

small rings ^ cup cooked green peas 

y-i cup diced celery 2 teaspoons grated onion 

Mayonnaise or boiled dressing 

Mix all ingredients, season with dressing, and serve on a 
lettuce leaf. 

ig^ (OSE LEVEL MEASTTREMENTS FOE ALL rNOREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD ancC COOKERY 



NUT AND CELERY SALAD 

I cup diced nut loaf or nuttose i cup diced celery- 

Put the diced nut food into an oiled pie .tin, and brown lightly 
in the oven, stirring often to prevent scorching. Add to the diced 
celery, and season with boiled dressing, chopped parsley, and a 
little chopped or grated onion. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

MACARONI AND OLIVE SALAD 

I cup cooked macaroni cut in , J4 cup shredded ripe olives 
small rings i teaspoon chopped onion 

1 cup shredded celery #, Chopped parsley 

Mix all the ingredients, and blend with boiled dressing, or 
mayonnaise. Serve on a lettuce leaf. ^ 

MR. HOLMDEN'S MACARONI SALAD 

To mayonnaise, add sufficient red tomato pulp (stirring con-- 
stantly as it is being added) to give it a pink color. Blend this 
with cooked macaroni, cut in small rings. Add diced or grated 
onion and chopped parsley to suit the taste, and serve on a let- 
tuce leaf. , 

CARROT SALAD, A L'ANGLAISE (English) 

2 cups young carrot ground Yz cup chopped walnuts 

through a food chopper 2 teaspoons chopped onion 

I cup chopped celery Chopped parsley 

Mix, and blend with plenty of mayonnaise. Serve on a let- 
tuce leaf. MACEDOINE SALAD 

I cup diced boiled potato , Vi cup green peas 

' Yi cup diced boiled carrot i tablespoon chopped onion 

J4 cup diced boiled turnip Parsley 

Mix all the ingredients, and season with boiled dressing or 
with mayonnaise. Serve on a lettuce leaf. ' 

EGG SALAD 

Dice hard-boiled eggs, season with boiled dressing, serve on 
a bed of lettuce, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

BEET AND EGG 

Yi cup diced boiled beet i hard-boiled egg diced 

I teaspoon chopped onion ^ 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or boiled 

dressing. ^ 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 185 




SCIENCE <f FOOD ancC COOKERY 



WATER LILY SALAD 

Cut a hard-boiled egg through lengthwise. Mash half of the 
yolk through a strainer. Put the other half yolk into a dish, and 
mash with a fork, adding enough boiled dressing to season well. 
Cut each half of the cooked white into three pieces lengthwise, to 
represent petals. Arrange on a plate of lettuce. Place a spoonful 
of the yolk mixture in the center, sprinkle the crumbed yolk over 
the salad, and serve. 

STRING BEAN AND PIMENTO SALAD 

2 cups cooked string beans 3 pieces canned pimento 

1 cup shredded celery ^ cut into small, dice 

2 teaspoons chopped onion Chopped parsley v 

Mix the ingredients, and lilend with mayonnaise or cream 

mayonnaise. 

TOMATO SALAD (Agar) 

2j^ cups tomato pulp , i tablespoon lemon juice 
I tablespoon chopped onion 2 teaspoons sugar 

I bay_ leaf Salt to taste 

I sprig of parsley Vegetable jelly 

Prepare and cook the agar as given on page 201, and halve it 
kept hot until wanted. Add onion, bay leaf, parsley, lemon juice, 
and sugar, to the tomato, and let boil, gently for 15 minutes. Salt 
to taste, and strain. To the 2 cups of tomato juice thus prepared, 
add y^ cup of vegetable jelly, mix well, pour into small molds, and 
let cool. When set, turn out on a lettuce leaf, and serve with a 
teaspoon of mayonnaise on top. 

CUCUMBER SALAD (Agar) 

V/i cups cucumber juice i tablespoon grated onion, or 
3 tablespoons lemon juice a little onion salt 

^ cup water Chopped parsley 

I tablespoon sugar Salt to taste 

Pare and grate the cucumbers, aijd press out the juice through 
a cheesecloth or a strainer. Mix all the ingredients, adding just 
enough chopped parsley for garniture and flavor; then add ^ cup 
of vegetable jelly, and mix well. Pour into small molds, let set 
till cool, and serve with mayonnaise. 

t86 (use level measurements pou all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and^ COOKERY 



SWEET POTATO SALAD 

1 cup diced, boiled sweet potatoes 2 teaspoons each of chopped onion 

2 stalks crisp celery cut into dice and sweet bell pepper 

Chopped parsley 

Mix all the ingredients, and season with French dressing or 
cream mayonnaise. 

SLICED BEETS IN LEMON 

1 cup water i teaspoon salt 
Yi cup lemon juice i bay leaf 

2 tablespoons sugar Boiled beets 

Add salt, sugar, and lemon juice to the water, and bring to a 
boil. Slice the cooked -beets into the hot liquid, add the bay leaf, 
cover with a plate so as to keep. the beets sybmerged in the liquid, 
and let cool. A hard-boiled egg may be put whole into the bowl 
with the sliced beets, • and serveJ with a sprig of green leaves 
stuck into one end for garniture, if desired. 

FRUIT SALADS 

FRUIT SALAD 

Cut equal quantities of orange^ pineapple, banana, and mellow 
apple into small dice. Season with fruit sauce or cream mayon- 
naise, and serve on a lettuce leaf. A few ripe strawberries when 
in season are a good addition. 

FRUIT BASKET 

Select medium sized, well colored- oranges. Hold an orange 
between the thumb and the first finger,., letting the side ' of the 
orange rest on the table. With a small, pointed knife, start in the 
middle of the orange, and run the blade about 2 inches into the 
center, then again and again, all the way around, iti such a, manner 
■that the orange will part in two halves, Iea,ving the edge rufJfled 
with small points of peel, like the teeth of a coarse saw. Ruji 
the point of a knife around each half, near the peel ; then with a 
teaspoon, dip out the fruit in one piece. Cut the orange center 
into small cubes, to which add equal quantities of diced banana 
and pineapple, and a few ripe strawberries if available. Add fruit 

^■ma^, LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) tR^ 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



sauce to season, and fill the orange shells, having them well 
rounded with fruit. Serve on a white plate, with ' three small 
orange leaves or a lettuce leaf for 'garniture. 

FRUITS AND NUTS 

I cup diced oranges i ctjp diced pineapple 

I cup diced bananas Chopped walnuts 

Mix the fruits, and, season with fruit sauce. , Dish up on a 
lettuce leaf, and sprinkle chopped walnuts over the top. 

WALDdRF SALAD 

I cup diced sweet apple A littte chopped parsley 

I cup finely diced celery J^ cup chopped walnuts 

Cream mayonnaise 

Dice the apples first, and mix with mayonnaise, so as to keep 
them from turning a dark color. Mix all the ingredients except 
the walnuts, which must be added just before serving, to prevent 
the salad from turning dark. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

APPLE AND BANANA SALAD 

,2 cups diced sweet apple 6 dates finely shredded 

T large banana cut through length- Fruit sauce or cream 

wise and sliced mayonnaise ' 

Mix the ingredients, and serve on a lettuce leaf. 

PRINCESS SALAD 

I cup seeded cherries i cup shredded walnuts 

I cup pineapple cut in large dice Fruit sauce or cream 

I cup marshmallows cut into dice mayonnaise 

Mix all the ingredients except ' the walnuts, which should be 
added just before serving. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

PRUNE AND PECAN NUT SALAD 

Soak large sized dried prunes for twenty-four hours in cold 
water, drain, and dry off the moisture. Remove the pits, and cut 
the. prunes into quarters or eighths. Add an equal amount of 
coarsely chopped pecan nuts, blend with a little cream mayon- 
naise, and serve on a lettuce leaf. 

tOQ fTTSR r.lilVTiTr. TW1SA STTRRMTTNTn TTOP ATT. TVARnnnRMTQ \ 




SCIENCE gf> FOOD and COOKERY 



APPLE AND PIMENTO SALAD 

I cup finely sliced sweet apple' - 2 pieces pimento diced fine 
Yi cup hearts of celery, chopped fine Cream mayonnaise 

Mix all the ingredients, and serve on a lettuce' leaf. i 

CRO\VN PRINCE SALAD 

Line a small plate with crisp lettuce. Take slices of orange, 
and dispose around the side of the dish. Fill in with sliced ba- 
nana, pineapple cut into large pieces, orange cut likewise, and ripe 
strawberries. Pile the fruit high, and pipe whipped cream on top 
and sides with a pastry bag, to represent a crown. 

RIBBON APPLE SALAD 

Select small, fine-grained red apples. Core and pare, leaving- 
the skin in the shape of a ring near the stem end of the apple. 
Remove some of the inner portion of the apple, being careful not 
to break the shell. Fill the cavity with equal quantities of finely 
diced celery and apple, seasoned with cream mayonnaise. Rut a 
small funnel of crisp lettuce in the top of the apple, into which 
drop a teaspoon ful of dressing. Serve On. apple leaves or a 
lettuce leaf. a 

; STUFFED DATE SALAD . 

Remove the pits from washed dates, fill each date with half 
a walnut meat, and press together. Put into a salad bowl, and 
wet with lemon juice. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

RAISIN SALAD 

y2 cup Seeded raisins, sliced i cup finely diced apple 

Prepare the raisins first, then the apples. Mix, and season with 
cream mayonnaise. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 



(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) igg 

13 




XK. DESSERTS 



The most wholesome desserts are fruits in their natural state, 
and nuts. Fruits may be served raw or cooked, fresh or dried, 
and should form a part of ■ every day's dietary. 

Because of their attractive colors, sweet aroma, and delicious 
flavors, fruits are the very best appetizers, appealing to the senses 
of sight, smell, and taste. They satisfy a natural craving for 
something dainty at meals, without burdening the system with 
extra work, and with little danger of excess. As it is written, 
"Of every tree of the garden thou niayest freely eat." Genesis 
2:16. No danger of "auto-intoxication" here; but, on the other 
hand, fruit acids are cleansing, and theii' alkaline substances are 
valuable for improving the condition of the blood. 

Cane sugar is quite different from fruit sugar, in that it needs 
to be digested, or converted into fruit sugar, in order to be utiliztd 
by the body. Saliva does not exert any influence upon cane sugarj 
neither does the gastric juice. The intestinal juice aids in con- 
verting it into -fruit sugar; but there is. more or less danger of 
fermentation's being set up, and the irritant thus formed aids in 
bringing about catarrhal conditions. If one subsists largely upon 
fruits, the desire for artificial arid highly sweetened foods will 
disappear. No other foods are so well suited to children as are 
fruits. All children have a craving for sweets. This is natural, 
at least to some degree ; and they should be supplied with sweets 
designed by nature to satisfy this desire. 



190 



(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



As a rule, far too much sugar is used in food. "Sweet breads, 
sweet cakes,. . . . perpetuate indigestion and make dyspeptics." 
We should exercise care, however, to provide suitable dishes to 
take the place of the more harmful ones, ever remembering that 
"diet reform must be progressive," The free use ,of milk and 
sugar taken together is especially harmful, and should be avoided-. 
Their place should be sujiplied, as far as possible, by preparation^ 
of fruit, and a variety, of grains served in an appetizing manner. 
A simple cake may be made .without the large quantities of but- 
ter, sugar, milk, and eggs ordinarily used, which ar^ difificult of 
digestion. A few examples of such cake will follow. 

DRIED FI^UITS 

In many localities, during the winter months, it is difficult to 
obtain fresh fruits ; but good varieties of ^ dried fruit can be pur- 
chased in the markets at any season of the year. 

The high temperature, to which dried fruit is usually subjected 
in cooking, produces a strong flavor, which , few persons relish. 
In the process of drying, the water is evaporated from the fruit ; 
and if this moisture can be restored to the fruit before cooking, the 
original flavor is retained, and to a large extent, it will have the 
appearance of fresh fruit. Instead of dried fruit's being cooked 
several hours, as is customary in many homes, it needs to be 
cooked no longer than fresh fruit of the same variety, after the 
water is restored to it. 

SOAKED DRIED PRUNES 

Select a good grade of large prunes, wash thoroughly, and 
soak in cold water for 24 to 36 hours, or until as soft as fresh 
prunes. Serve the same as stewed prunes. 

STEWED DRIED PRUNES 

Wash thoroughly several times in warm water; then cover with 
water, and let soak from 12 to 24 hours, or until sufficient water 
has been absorbed to make them soft as fresh, ripe fruit. Simmer 
slowly until thoroughly done, and little or no sUgar 'will be 
required. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INORBDIENTS. ) JQI 




SCIENCE of FOOD a«ff COOKERY 



STEWED DRIED APRICOTS 

Ripe apricots are never sour unless brought to a high tempera- 
ture in cooking. Wash the fruit thoroughly in warm water, and 
let soak for 24 hours or more, or until the fruit is as soft as fresh 
fruit. If properly soaked, apricots will require very little cooking. 
Heat gradually over a slow fire, using the water in which they 
were soaked, but do not let them come quite to the boiling point. 
Let them simmer on the edge of the stove until they are thoroughly 
scalded, and jthey will be fairly sweet without sugar. 

STEWED DRIED PEACHES 

Waslj thoroi^ghly, cover with warm water; and soak overnight. 
If the fruit was ripe when dried,, the skins will slip off easily. If 
there are a few pieces that were not ripe, and that are not loosened, 
use a knife for these. After removing the skins, add fresh water, 
and soak several hours, when the peaches will be soft, like fresh 
peaches. Do. not boil, but simmer slowly until done. Sweeten 
to taste. 

puddij^gs and jellies 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING 

V/i cups soaked stale bread 3 tablespoons sugar 

I cup seedless sultana raisins i egg 

The grated rind of Yi lemon i tablespoon vegetable butter 

Soak the raisins overnight, drain, and put on a slow fire until 
hot through; then add the vegetable Jautter, Have the. breg^ 
soaked in cold water until soft all the way through, and press out 
lightly. Beat the t.^^, and mix all the ingredients, using a silver 
fork. Put into a thin cloth, leaving a little room to rise, and steam 
for ij/^ to 2 hours. Turn out on an oiled pie tin, bake for a few 
minutes, and serve with lemon sauce. This last baking may be 
omitted if not convenient. If seeded raisins are used, they should 
be added without soaking. 

GRAHAM FRUIT PUDDING 

5^ cups water i cup Graham flour (toaste,d 

y^ cup sugar lightly in the oven) 

i^ cups seeded raisins 2 slices lemon 

A few grains of salt 

jg2 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOE ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Put the Graham flour into a medium slow oven and toast 
lightly, but avoid browning in the least. Add i cup of the water 
to the toasted flour and stir smooth. Add sugar, lemon, raisins, 
and a few grains of salt to the water, bring to a boil, and let boil 
gently until the liquid measures 4 cups-; then pour the hot mixture 
gradually on the wetted Graham flour, and stir smooth. Let boil 
gently for a few minutes, or until quite thick. Pour into wetted 
molds and let cool. Turn out on a sauce dish, and serve with 
cream or vanilla sauce. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA 

Yi cup minute tapioca J4 cup cold water 

2 cups boiling water , Ya cup sugar 

A ^lice of lemon 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water for 10 minutes. Add boil- 
ing water, sugar^ and lemon, and let boil until transparent; then 
pour over cooked and sweetened fruit, such as pared, quartered, 
and baked apples, stewed and drained peaches, cooked straw- 
berries, etc. Set into the "Oven to simmer .for 20 minutes or 
more, cool, and serve with cream. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING 

J4 cup minute tapioca 2 eggs 

. 2^ cups hot milk Vz cup sugar 

Yi cup cold milk Vanilla flavor 
^ A sprinkle of salt 

Soak the tapioca in the cold milk for 10 minutes, add the hot 
milk, and cook in a double boiler until transparent. Beat the egg 
yolks, the sug;ar, and a sprinkle of salt together. Add the hot 
mixture gradually, stirring with a spoon as it is being added. Let 
continue to cook until it begins to thicken; then remove from the 
fire. Beat the whites stiff, flavor with a teaspoon vanilla, and fold 
in the hot mixture, chill, and serve. , 

APPLE SNOW 

Cook 6 tart apples, pared and sliced, with ^ cup water and 
^ cup sugar, until tender. Mash through a fine strainer, and 
let cool. Put i>4 cups of the apple pulp into a bowl with the 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) Ip2 




SCIENCE g/^ FOOD cazd COOKERY 



white of I egg, and beat with a whisk orv Dover beater until white 

and fluffy. Serve plain, or with a teaspoon red jelly on the top 

of each dish. ^ 

STRAWBERRl WHIP 

I cup strawberries Yz cup sugar 

White of I egg i teaspoon lemon juice 

Choose well ripened strawberries, wash them, and remove the 
stems. Put all the ingredients into a bowl, and beat with a wir;e 
egg whip until light and fluffy, which will take 20 minutes or 
more. Pile lightly on a dish, and pour around it a border of 
crushed fruit or red fruit juice, unsweetened. 

SCALLOPED APPLES 

ij4 quarts thinly sliced tart apples Yz cup sugar 

3 cups fresh bread crumbs Juice and rind pf i lemon 

' Vegetable butter 

Remove the crust from ordinary stale bread, and rub the soft 
part through a colander or a coarse strainer. Cover the bottom 
of an oiled baking pan' with a layer of the crumbs, and over this 
spread half of the sliced apples. Sprinkle with half of the sugar 
mixed with the lemon rind. Pour over it the lemon juice, and 
small bits of vegetable butter; then add another layer of crumbs, 
and apples, as before. Sprinkle a thin layer of crumbs over the 
top, and bake under an inverted pan until about done ; then remove 
the top pan and brown lightly. 

' LEMON SNOW 

yi cup water 54 cup sugar 

3 tablespoons lemon juice 2j/^ tablespoons cornstarch 

Rind of Yi lemon Salt 

White of I egg 

Mix the sugar and the starch thoroughly. Put the water, the 
lemon rind, and the lemon juice into a small saucepan, and bring 
gradually to a boil. Add a pinch of salt to the white, and beat 
until stiff and dry. Strain the hot liquid, and pour it slowly into 
the sugar and starch, and mix smooth. Return to the fire and 
bring to a boil ; then pour in a steady stream into the beaten white, 
and beat with a whip as it is poured in, to blend well. Pour into 

jQ^ (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS. ) 



fn 



SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



wetted molds, and let cool. , Serve with a custard sauce made from 
the yolk and the milk, as usual. 

OATMEAL PUDDING 

2 cups cold cooked oatmeal ' J^ cup seedless raisins 

2 cups rich milk 2 eggs 

Ya, cup sugar or honey }4 teaspoon vanilla flavor 

Beat the eggs slightly,, add the sweetening and the flavor, and 
mix with the milk. Work this gradually into the cooked oatmeal, 
pour into an oiled baking pan, and sprinkle the raisins over the 
mixture, working them in with the tip of a spoon.' Place in a 
shallow pan of water, and bake in a medium slow oven until set 
and a light brown color. Let cool and serve, 

BREAD CUSTARD PUDDING 

V/i cups stale bread cut into i large egg 

squares J4 cup sugar 

^ 2 cups milk Yz cup seedless raisins 

Vanilla flavor 

Spread the bread scantily with butter, cut into small dice, and 

put into a baking pan. Beat the egg and the sugar together 

slightly. Add a little vanilla and the milk. Mix well, pour over 

the bread, and let stand half an hour. Sprinkle the raisins over 

the top and work them into the mixture. Bake until set and a 

light brown. 

CREAM RICE PUDDING 

Y2 cup uncooked rice Vanilla flavor 

5 cups milk 2 teaspoons vegetable butter 

Y3 cup sugar Yl cup raisins 

A few grains of salt ' 

Wash the rice in several waters, and drain. Add the milk, 
pour into an oiled baking pan, and cook over the fire, stirring 
often, until the rice begins to float. (It is the stirring that gives, 
it the creamy consistency.) Add raisins, sugar, butter, and vanilla 
flavor, mix well, and set into the oven to cook until the rice is' 
thoroughly done and the top slightly browned. Remove and let 
cool. A double boiler may be used instead of the baking pan, if 
desired, until the rice is cooked. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) IQg 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



RICE CUSTARD PUDDING 

Use the same proportions as in the preceding, but cook the rice 
and the milk in a double boiler until the rice is tender. Beat two 
■ eggs slightly. Add the sugar, the vanilla, and a sprinkle of salt, 
and into this pour the cooked rice gradually, s1:irring constantly. 
Pour into a well oiled baking pan, and bake slowly until set, but 
avoid letting it boil up, as that would cause it to whey. Remove 
and let cool. Raisins, if added, should be put into the hot rice 
before adding the eggs. 

BLANCMANGE 

2 cups milk White of 2 eggs 
4 tablespoons cornstarch Vanilla flavor 

3 tablespoons sugar or honey A few grains of salt 

Put the milk into a double boiler, and when it is boiling hot, 
add the sugar. Blend the cornstarch, with a little cold milk, and 
pour gradually into the hot milk, stirring constantly. Cover, and 
let cook 15 minutes over a good fire. Add a sprinkle of salt to 
the whites, and beat them stiff. Flavor with vanilla, and over 
these pour the hot mixture gradually, and fold together. Turn 
into individual wetted molds, or into a large mold, and let cool. 
Turn out, and serve with cream, or with a custard sauce made 
from the yolks. 

STRAWBERRY FLUMMERY 

^ Use the recipe for blancmange. When cold, dish up in glassy, 
with crushed strawberries poured over it. 

CRUMB CUSTARD PUDDING 

I cup rolled zwieback crumbs Yz cup sugar or honey 

3 cups hot milk 2 eggs 

I cup cold milk Vanilla 

A few grains of salt 

Pour the hot milk over the crumbs, and set aside for 10 min- 
utes. Beat the eggs and the sugar together slightly. Add the 
vanilla, a few grains of salt, and the cold milk, and mix with the 
crumbs. Pour into a well oiled baking pan, and bake slowly until 
set and a light brown color. 

Ip6 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 





SCIENCE of FOOD a?af COOKERY 



.■•■■■•■IIUBa* 

ORANGE CREAM PUDDING 

•)4 cup water 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

J^_ cup orange juice Yi cup sugar 

.Rind of I small orange, 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

grated lightly i egg separated 

A few grains of salt 

Put the wajrer, the fruit juices, and the orange rind into" a small 
saucepan, and brjng gradually to a boil. Mix the sugar and the 
starch together thoroughly. Beat the white stiff ; then pour the 
boiling liquid, slowly at first, into the sugar and starch, and stir 
smooth. Return it to the fire, and stir until it comes to a good 
boil; then pour it in' a steady stream into the stiffly beaten white, 
beating with a whip as it enters the t%^, until well rhixed. Pour 
into wetted molds, and let cool. Turn out on sauce dishes, and 
serve with custard sauce malde from the yolk, with milk, as usual. 

PRESSED FRUIT PUDDING 

Granose biscuit Sugar 

Stewed blackberries or strawberries 

Lay the biscuit in a bakirig pan in a warm oven until thoroughly 
dried out and lightly browned. Pour the berries into a colander. 
Put a layer of crumbled biscuit, in the bottom of a brick-shaped 
tin, dip enough of the juice over the biscuit to moisten it, spi;inkle 
lightly with sugar, and cover with a layer of .berries about half an 
inch deep ; then repeat, having the berries on top. Set the pudding 
dish inside a larger pan; then put on top of the pudding, with a 
weight, a pan equal in size to that in which the pudding is. Let 
stand and press for several hours, or overnight. When ready to 
serve, cut in squares, and put a teaspoon of whipped cream on 
top of each serving. ' 

PRUNE PUDDING 

Soak dried prunes overnight. Cook them for 2 or 3 hours, 
with a few slices of lemon added to give them flavor. Drain, and 
save the juice separately. Put the prunes through a colander to 
remove the pits, sweeten with sugar if needed, and flavor with 
vanilla. Trim the crust off thinly from a loaf of fruit bread, and 
cut into slices about half an inch thick. Line a granite baking pan 
with the bread, pour over enough juice to. soak tip the bread, and 

. (USE LEVEL MBAStlRBMBNTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 157 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



cover with the prune pulp about ^4 inch deep. Repeat the process, 
leaving some of the prune pulp for the top. Put into the oven 
until it is barely hot through, so it will set. Cool, cut into squares, 
and serve with.a teaspoon of whipped cream on top of each serving. 

PRUNE WHIP 

Yi cup prune pulp I tablespoon sugar 

White of I egg A few drops of vanilla 

Prepare prunes the same as for prune pudding. Beat the white 
stiff and dry, add sugar and vanilla, and beat again; then fold in 
the prune pulp. Serve on a sauce dish with a teaspoon of whipped 
cream on top. 

DATE WHIP 

Wash and pit the dates, and simnjer them in little water until- 
soft. Rub through a wire strainer, season with a small portion of 
lemon juice, and make the same as prune whip. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

Cut rather thick slices of pound cake or loaf cake, lay in a 
sn;iall pan with cover, and warm slightly in the oven. Serve in a 
sauce dish with hot lemon sauce or vanilla sauce. \ 

SAGO FRUIT MOLD 

1 cup strawberry or blackberry J4 cup water 

juice (sweetened) J^ cup sugar 

Yi cup sago 

Wash the sago, and drain well. Bring the liquid and suga» 
to a boil. Add the sago, and stir oyer the fire until transparent; 
then turn into wetted molds and let cool. Serve with cream, or 
a little whipped cream, or canned milk. 

RICE CROQUETTES WITH JELLY 

Y2 cup rice, raw A thin slice of lemon peel 

V/i cups hot water i ?gg 

I tablespoon vegetable butter i tablespoon sugar 

A few grains of salt 

Wash the rice thoroughly, drain, add the boiling water and 
the lemon peel, and let boil gently until the rice looks dry and 
the moisture is evaporated ; then cover, and let steam over a alow 

igg (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS. ) 



-|V««irnBaini*n 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



fire for lo minutes. Beat the egg slightly, add the sugar and the 
butter, and mix intq the rice while hot; then let cool. When cold, 
mold into round balls about the size of a large hen's egg. Make 
a dent in the top of each,' brush over with cream, and bake in an 
oiled pan, to a light brown color. Serve with lemon sauce, and 
a small piece of red jelly on the top. 

APPLE AND RAISIN PUDDING 

4 cups chopped tart apples Grated rind and juice of 
Yi, cup seedless raisins i lemon , 

i}4 cups rolled zwieback Vegetable butter 

Yz cup sugar Y2 cup water 

Pare, quarter, and chop the apples, and rnix with the lemon 
juice and rind. Place a layer of the crumbs in an oiled baking 
pan, then a layer of apples. Sprinkle with sugar, small pieces of 
vegetable butter, and a layer of the raisins. Repeat until the dish 
is nearly full, finishing with a thin layer of crumbs on the top, and 
small bits of vegetable butter. Pour the water over, cover, and 
bake in a good oven until the apples are tender; then remove the 
top pan and brown lightly. Cool and serve. 

BOILED CUSTARD 

2 cups scalded milk i tablespoon honey; or sugar 

Yolks of 3 eggs J^ teaspoon vanilla flavor 

A few grains of salt 

Beat the egg yolks slightly, add the salt and the sugar, and stir 
constantly while adding the hot milk, in a slow stream. Cook in 
a double boiler, stirring constantly until the mixture thickens suf- 
ficiently to coat a silver I spoon; then remove at once, set into a 
pan of cold water, add flavor, and let cool. If the milk is hot, it 
will take but a few moments to cook the yolk sufficiently; h^nce 
great care should be exercised not to curdle the eggs. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

4 cups scalded milk, Ya cup honey or sugar 

4 eggs Yi teaspoon .vanilla flavoring 

A few grains of salt 

Beat the eggs Slightly. Add vapilla, sugar, and salt, pour in 
gradually the pstrtly cooled rnilk, and mix well. Strain, and pour 

(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) igp 




SCIENCE tf FOOD and COOKERY 



into oiled molds or a baking pan. Set into a pan of water, and 
bake in a slow oven until set, which may be determined by running 
the point of a knife through the custard; if the kni:^e -comes out 
clean, the custard is done. It is very important that the water 
surrounding the custard does not quite reach the boiling point, or 
the custard will be watery. Eggs and milk in combination must 
be cooked- at a low temperature! 

BAKED CUSTARD (Soft) 

Prepare and bake exactly the same as above, except that 3 eggs 
only are used, in the place of 4. , This custard is nice if baked in 
a cup or mold in which it can be served, as it willbe very tender. 

CREAM PUFFS (9 Portions) 

I cup water - i cup white flour 

4 tablespoons vegetable butter 4 eggs 

A few grains of salt 

Add the 'Salt and' the butter to the water, and bring to a boil. 
Add the flour all at once, stir rapidly, and cook until the mixture 
shrinks away from the sides. of the pan; then remove, and let cool 
partly. Add the ifnbeaten eggs, one at a time, mixing each in 
thoroughly with a wooden spoon until smooth and thick. Brush 
off from a tablespoon onto an oiled and slightly floured baking 
pan, leaving plenty of space between, and bake in a rather slow 
oven, with the heat from below at first, until the crust is firm and 
a light brown color. Let cool, split open in the side, and fill witl\^ 
whipped cream, or with the following cream filling. 

Cream Filling 

1 cup hot milk i egg 

3 tablespoons flour Y-i teaspoon vanilla flavor 

2 tablespoons honey or sugar A few grains of salt 

Mix enough cold milk into the flour to make a perfectly smooth 
paste, stir gradually into the hot milk, and let cook for 15 minutes. 
Beat the egg, the sugar, and the salt together slightly; then pour 
in gradually the hot cream, stirring constantly. Return to the 
fire, and stir until it tbickens, but do not boil." Remove, add the 
vanilla, and let cool. 

200 Kmsk level measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



VEGETABLE GELATIN (Agar) 

Vegetable gelatin, or agar-agar, is a gelatinous substance pre- 
pared from seaweed in Japan and; India. It is used in the East 
to thicken soup, etc. While it contains no nutritive . matter, it 
serves- as a vehicle for holding food together, as in fruit desserts, 
jellied entrees, etc. Its vegetable origin guarantees freedom from 
unwholesome,^ and diseased products; and there is nothing about 
it to suggest "hoofs and horns." 

AGAR JELLY 

Put y-2. ounce vegetable gelatin (agar) to soak in warm water' 
for 30 minutes. Drain, and add 2 cups boiling water. Let boil 
gently for about 10 minutes, or until clear. Strain through a fine 
strainer or cheesecloth, and keep hot until ready for use. The 
jelly should measure 2 cups. 

ORANGE JELLY 

I cup orange juice J4 cup water 

6 tablespoons lemon juice ^ cup sugar 

yz cup vegetable jelly 

Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice and water, and add the 
hot jelly. Mix well, pour into wetted molds, and let set. 

LEMON JELLY 

Yi cup lemon juice VA cups water 

J4 cup sugar % cup vegetable jellsr 

Mix and mold the same as the foregoing. 

BERRY MOLD 

ij4 cups juice from stewed and ^ cup sugar 

sweetened berries ^ 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Yi cup vegetable jelly 

Mix and mold the same as orange jelly. 

FRUIT JELLY 

Arrange a nice assortment of fresh or cooked fruits, well 
drained, in a glass bowl. Take i^ cups light-colored fruit juice, 
add J4 cup lemon juice, J4 cup strawberry or loganberry juice, and 
sweeten -to taste. Add ^ cup vegetable jelly, mix well, and pour 
over the fruit in the dish. Let set and serve. 

(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 201 




SCIENCE 0^ FOOD and COOKERY 



PIES 

PLAIN PASTRY No. 1 

1 5^ cups pastry flour y^ teaspoon salt 

6 tablespoons solid vegetable fat About 5 tablespoons cold water 

Mix the flour and the salt in a bowl. , Add the fat, and cut 

into the flour with a silver fork, or with the tips of the fingers. 

(Avoid rubbing the ingredients between the hand,s, as that would 

make the mixture too oily.) Add the water slowly, and mix 

through the dry ingredients with a fork. Form lightly and- quickly 

with the hands into a soft dough, and lay on a floured board. Use 

a light motion in handling the rolling-pin,, and roll jrom the 

center outiidard. _ ' ' 

PLAIN PASTRY No. 2 

Use the same proportions as for No. i, except use half entire 

wheat flour instead of all white flour. 

BEATEN OIL CRUST 

Wa cups flour 6 tablespoons best cottonseed or 

About S tablespoons water corn oil 

Yi, teaspoon salt 

Mix the flour and the salt in a bpwl. Put the, oil into a small 
bowl, and add the water in a, slow stream, beating constantly to 
emulsify the oil. Pour onto the flour, and mix with a spoon, 
drawing "the flour into the wetting from the sides to a medium 
soft dough. Turn Out on a floured board, and use the ^ame as 
plain pastry. * 

GRANO CRUST 
% cup grano cereal % cup thin cream 

Pour the cream over the grand cereal, and stir until the cream 

is absorbed. Theri spread evenly on the bottom and sides of pie 

tin,, using a spoon. Have the rim quite thick. Bake until done, 

and add filling. 

CRUST SHELLS 

Roll out either of the above pastries to cover a pie tin. Press 

well down into the tin. Then press oflf the surplus edge around 

the rim. Prick with a fork on bottom and sides, to keep the crust 

from bUstering. Bake to a light brown. 

, 202 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INOEEDIBNTS. ) 




"SCIENCE qP FOOD and COOKERY 



APPLE PIE 

Line a pie tin with crust. 
Sprinkle in the bottom a little 
flour mixed with a little sugar. 
^Fill the plate with sliced or 
chopped tart apples, rounding it 
up a little. Dust with flour. 
Add 2 teaspoons vegetable but- 
ter to each pie. Sprinkle over 
about yi cup or less of sugar, 
according to the tartness of the 
apple and the size of the pie. 
Run a wet brush around on the 
edge of the crust. Roll out a top 
crust, perforate with fork or 
knife, and lay on top. Press the 
edges together, trim, and mark 
by pressing the teeth of a table 
fork down on the rim of the 
crust all the way around. Brush 
over with cream or milk, and 
bake in a medium oven. 

PRUNE PIE 

Remove the stones from cooked prunes slightly sweetened,, 

Roll out bottom crust as for apple pie. Add the storied prunps, i 

tablespoon lemon juice, i teaspoon vegetable butter, and J^ cup 

sugar or more. Cover with top crust, and bake the same as 

. apple pie. 

STRAWBERRY PIE No. 1 

Wash and stem ripe strawberries. Roll them in powdered 
sugar, and fill a crust shell. Cover with whipped cream, cut, 
and serve. 

STRAWBERRY PIE No. 2 , 

Fill a crust shell with strawberry whip, as given in recipe on 
page 194. Cut and serve. ' 




(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INQREDIENTS.) 



203 



SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



RAISIN PIE 

V/i cups seedless sultana raisins Yz cup sugar 

2 cups water ' i tablespoon lemon juice 

I tablespoon cornstarch 2 teaspoons vegetable butter 

Wash the raisins thoroughly, lift them out of the water, then 
cover with cold water and let soak overnight. Add additional 
water to that remaining on the raisins, to make 2 cups liquid, and 
bring to a, boil. Mix the sugar and the starch together thoroughly, 
add some of the boiling mixture, and stir smooth; then pour into 
the stewed raisins, and let boil continuously for 15 minutes. Set 
aside to cool. 

Line a large pie tin with pastry. Add the cooked raisins, the 

lemon juice, and the butter, and cover with a perforated top crust. 

Brush with milk, and bake the same as apple pie. It is preferable 

to cook the raisins the day before using for pie, as they will have 

a better flavor. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

■V/i cups canned pumpkin 2 teaspoons melted vegetable 
I cup milk butter or a little rich cream 

J/^^cup sugar i egg 

I tablespoon molasses Y^ teaspoon vanilla flavoring 

I tablespoon browned flour A few grains of salt 

Beat the egg slightly. Add molasses,- salt, vanilla, melted 
butter^ and sugar mixed, with flour, and beat well. Add the 
pumpkin, and mix; then stir in the milk, and when thorpughly 
mixed, pour into a large pie tin that has been lined with pie 
crust, and bake until set and a light brown color. 

PUMPKIN PIE WITHOUT EGGS 

V/i cups canned pumpkin i tablespoon molasses 

Scant Yi cup sugar V/i cups hot milk 

4 tablespoons browned flour y^ teaspoon vanilla flavor 

A few grains of salt 

Mix the sugar with the browned flour, and add to the pump- 
kin ; then combine all the ingredients, and bake the same as above. 

LEMON PIE 

I large cup sugar 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

ij^ cups water 2 tablespoons vegetable butter 

4 tablespoons cornstarch y^ teaspoon salt 

Grated rind of i lemon i egg se?parated 

204 (USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



WZ 



■ ••nnanain 



SCIENCE g^ FOOD axcf COOKERY 



Mix the sugar and the starch > thoroughly. Bring water, salt, 
and lernon rind to a boil, pour gradually over the starch and 
sugar mixture, and stir smooth.^, Return to the fire, and boil until 
thick and clear. Separate the yolk- from the. white, beat the yolk 
and the lemon juice, and pour in a little of the hot mixture, stir- 
ring so as not to cook the yolk; then briskly stir the yolk mixture 
into the cooked starch, and cpntinue to stir over the fire for a 
few moments, but do not boil. Set off the fire, add the butter, mix, 
and pour into a crust shell and set aside. Add to the white i 
tablespoon cold water and a sprinkle of salt, *and beat until very 
foamy ; then add gradually, while beating, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
and continue to beat,'until\firm enough to spread nicely. Flavor 
with lemon extract, spread over the pie, and brown lightly in 
the oven. 

Note. — The mixture should never be boiled after the lemon 
juice is added, as that would cut the starch and thin the mixture.^ 

INDIVIDUAL PICNIC PIE 

i cup seeded raisins , Scant i cup sugar 

I cup walnut meats ^ Juice and rind of i lemon 

fi \ cups chopped tart apples i egg 

Chop thfe raisins, the nuts, and the apples. Put the sugar, the 
chopped apple, and the lemon juice and rind into a small saucepan, 
and cctok for a few minutes over the 'fire. , Add the chopped raisins 
and huts, and stir until hot through; then add the slightly beaten 
egg, and stir until it takes up the moisture, but do not boil. Roll 
out pie crust, and cut with a large round cutter, or with a tin cover 
that has been perforated. Wet the edge of the crust, lay a large 
spoonful of the fruit a little to one side, turn the crust ov^r it, and 
press the edges together. Brush with milk, and bake to a light 
brown color. If used for a large two^crust pie, omit the egg. 

BANANA CREAM PIE 

ij4 cups milk I large or 2 medium bananas 

3 tablespoons flour i egg 

, 3 tablespoons sugar A sprinkle of salt 

' / '■ 
(use level measurements fok all ingredients.) 20s 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and COOKERY 



Slice the banana into a baked, crust shell. Heat the milk in a 
double boiler to boiling point. Stir the flour and a little cold milk 
or water to a smooth paste, and ^ pour slowly into the hot milk, 
stirring as it is being added, and let cook for 15 minutes. Add i 
tablespoon of the hot cream, a sprinkle of salt, and the sugar to 
the yolk of egg, and mix well; then pour the hot cream in a slow 
stream into the yolk mixture, stirring briskly as it is being added. 
Stir over the fire for a few minutes, until the mixture thickens a 
little from the yolk, but do not boil. Pour over the sliced banana 
in the crust shell and set aside. Add i tablespoorl cold water to 
the white of egg, and beat rapidly until very foamy ; then add 
gradually i tablespoon sugar and a few drops of vanilla or lemon 
extract, and beat until firm enough to spread nicely over the top. 
Brown lightly in the oven, and let cool. 

CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs I tablespoon flour 

2 cups milk (scalded and partly 2}^ tablespoons sugar or honey 
cooled) J4 teaspoon vanilla flavor 

A few grains of salt , 

Mix the sugar and the flour together, and add to the slightly 
beaten eggs. Add the milk, the flavoring, and a sprinkle of salt, 
and mix well. Line a ,deep pie tin with pastry, and build up a well 
fluted rim. Strain in the custard, and bake in a quick oven at 
first, to set the rim; then decreg^e the heat, as egg and milk to- 
gether must be cooked at a low temperature. Test with the pqjnt 
of a knife to see whether it is done ; if the point comes out clean, 
the custard is dorie. 

CUSTARD PIE No. 2 

Mix and bake the same as above, except beat the yolks until 
thick, add the sugar, and fold into the beaten whites. Then add 
the milk (and a little more sweetening than for No. i). 

GREEN TOMATO PIE 

Use medium small green tomatoes, pare thinly, and cut out the 
stem end. Have a pie tin lined with pastry. Add the sliced 
tomatoes, haying the pie somewhat heaping full. Add about % 

206 ("S^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOBEDIENTS. ) 



■■•■■■■■raB«a» 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



cup sugar, mixed with 2 tablespoons lightly browned flour, 2 table- 
spoons lemon juice, small bits of vegetable butter, and a few grains 
of salt. Wet the edges, cover with a perforated crust, brush with 
milk, and bake the same as for apple pie. ' 

GREEN TOMATO MINCE PIE 

1% quarts chopped green tomafp 2 cups sorghum 

1 quart chopped tart apple i^ cups sugar 

I package seedless sultana, raisins 6 tablespoons browned flour 

y^ cup lemon juice A sprinkle of salt 

Pare the tomatoes thinly, and grind through a food tnill set with 
a coarse knife, or chop with a knife. Grind or chop the apples in 
like manner, mix with tomato, lemon juice, sorghum, sugar, raisins, . 
and a sprinkle of salt, and bring gradtially to a boil. Blend the 
browned flour with cold water to a smooth paste, and add to the 
boiling mixture. Let boil continuously for 15 minutes, care being 
taken that it does not scorch; then set aside in a crock, in a cold 
place. Line a pie tin with pastry, add the cooked fruit, sprinkle 
with small bits of vegetable butter, cover with a perforated crust, 
brush with milk, and bake the same as apple pie. This filling 
should be made a few days before using, as it will have far richer 
flavor than if used freshly cooked. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING 

Pare and core tart apples, set each apple on a 4j4-in|Ch square 
of rolled pie crust, fill the cavity with sugar, wet the corners of 
the crust, bring them together on the top, and press together. 
Brush with milk, and bake to a nice brown color. Serve with, 
lemon or vanilla sauce. 

CAKES AND COOKIES 

GENERAL RULES 

1. Sift the flour once before measuring. 

2. Line the bottom of tins with Manila pa,per, or oil the tins 
and dust them lightly with flour. Turn them over and tap them 
against the flour board to shake out all surplus flour. 

3. Use accurate measurements. 

(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 2O7 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



4. Have the oven heated and the drafts closed. 

5. Remove the cake from the oven as soon as it is done. 
Longer cooking dries it out. To. test it, touch gently with the 
finger when about done. If it does not respond to a light pressure 
of the finger, close the oven gently, and let tiake until there is a 
slight spring in the crust when pressed gently with the finger. Use 
a toothpick for testing a loaf cake. Leave cake in tins for. 10 or 
more minutes after baking. 

LAYER CAKE 

4 eggs V/i cups sifted pastry flour 

2 teaspoons lemon juice 3 tablespoons melted vegetable 
I scant cup granulated sugar butter 

1 tablespoon water A few grains of salt 

Vanilla flavor 

Break the eggs whole into a round-bottomed mixing bowl, 
3-quart or 4-quart- size. Add the water, the lemon juice, the sugar, 
and a few grains of salt. Set the bowl into a pan of boiling water 
on the table, having the water about 2 inches deep, and beat quickly 
until the mixture is foamy and blood warm, or a little more ; then 
remove from the water, set on the table, and beat until cold, and 
so light that the batter will pile as it runs from the egg whip; Add 
the flavoring, and mix ; then sift half of the flour over the batter, 
and fold in lightly. Sprinkle the melted butter over the mixture, 
and fold in with a few careful strokes. Sift the remainder of the 
flour over the batter, and fold in lightly; then pour into 2 paper- 
lined cake tins, and bake in a medium oven from 10 to .12 minutes. 

LOAF CAKE 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons cold water 
4 tablespoons solid vegetable I tablespoon lemon juice 

fat _ y^ teaspoon salt 

54 cup sugar y^ teaspoon vanilla flavoring 

I cup flour and 4 tablespoons cornstai;ch sifted together 

Add Yz cup sugar to the solid fat, and cream until white and 
light. Add the remaining ^4 cup of sugar to the yolks, and beat 

20g (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOK ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD and COOKERY 



with a Dover beater until thick and lemon-colored. Work the 
yolk mixture into the creamed fat ; then add the salt, the flavoring-, 
and the liquids gradually, stirring as they are being added. Add 
the sifted flour and starch, and fold together with a spoon until 
smooth. Add a pinch of salt to the whites, and beat them stiiif 
and dry. Fold into them the batter, using a spoon, so as not to 
break down the lightness of the eggs unnecessarily. Potir into a 
paper-lined or oiled tin, 'and bake in a slow oven to begin with, 
and increase the heat so as to brown lightly, which requires from 
20 to 35 minutes, according to the thickness of the loaf. 

JELLY ROLL 

Line a baking pan with Manila paper. Spread layer cake mix- 
ture about Yt. inch deep on 'the paper, and bake on the top grate 
in a quick oven. Lay a sheet of Manila paper on the table, arid 
sprinkle lightly with sugar; then as soon as the cake is done, turn 
bottom side up on the sugared paper, and carefully remove the, 
paper from the bottom of the cake. Spread the cake with red 
jelly ; then take hold of the edge of the paper with the fingers, and 
roll the cake into a roll, with the sugared paper around to hold it 
together until cold. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE 

Whites of .f^ eggs J4 cup sugar 

Yi cup sifted pastry 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

• flour \ A few grains of salt 

Yi, teaspoon each of lemon and vanilla flavor 

Measure out all the ingredients before commencing to put the 
cake together. Sift the flour and the sugar four times separately. 
Add a few grains of salt to the whites, and beat until foamy, but. 
not stiff. Add the lemon juice and the flavoring, and sift in the 
sugar slowly, beating constantly. Use care not to make the mix- 
ture stiiif. Sift the flour over slowly, and mix, using the folding 
motion. Bake in an unbuttered pan 20 minutes or more, having a 
small pan of hot water under the cake while baking. When done, 
turn upside down on a rack, and leave in the pan until cold. Cover 
with plain icing. • 

(USE_ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOE ALL INGREDIENTS.) 20g 




Harvesting Coconuts in the Philippines 



CUP CAKES — Mr. Hook's 



2 eggs 

% teaspoon salt 

Yz teaspoon vanilla flavor 

y^ cup boiling water 

J/2 cup sugar 

% cup corn sirup 

J4 cup vegetable oil 



Yz cups pastry flour 
cup raisins or chopped nuts, or 
desiccated coconut ; or they 
may all be left out, and the 
cake baked plain, in oiled 
gem pans, or in layer cake 
tins, or loaf cake tins. 



Break the eggs into a bowl, add the salt and the vanilla, and 
beat with a Dover beater until thick. (The salt hastens the beat- 
ing of eggs.) Add the boiling water gradually, beating constantly; 
then add the sugar in the same manner. Next add the oil and the 

210 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



U: 



SCIENCE of FOOD ancf COOKERY 




corn sifup, and beat a few strokes; then add the sifted flour, and 
fold together. If raisins or chopped nuts are used,, they should' be 
added after the flour. Bake in oiled gem pans, in a medium slow 
oven, the same as loaf cake. 



FAVORITE. POUND CAKE 

K cup solid vegetable fat 2 teaspqbns lemon juice 

Scant I cup sugar 14 teaspoon vanilla flavor 

14 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

Scant 154 cups flour 

Put the solid fat into- a bowl. Add the salt and the lemon 
juice, and cream with a spoon until smooth and white. Add the 
sugar gradually, and continue stirring until very light and creamy. 
Add the eggs, one at a time, and beat until light. ' Fold in the 
flour, pour into an oiled pan, and bake in a slow oven, about 40 
minutes, the same as loaf cake. 

FRUIT CAKE — Mr. Hook's 



I cup sugar 

J4 cup solid vegetable fat 

4 eggs 

^3 cup molasses 

I teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups flour 



3 cups raisms 
J4 cup > diced lemon peel 
J4 cup diced orange peel 
ij4 cups diced citron 
yz cup chopped walnuts 



Put the fat, the sugar, and the vanilla into a bowl, and work 
until white and creamy. Add a. few grains of salt to the eggs, beat 
with a Doyer beater until very light, and work into the creamed 
mixture. Add the molasses, and beat a few hard strokes. Then 
add the fruit- aijd the nuts, and mix thoroughly. Lastly fold in the 
flour, and bake in a slow oven from i hour to ij^ hours, depending 
on the thickness of the cake. When orange and lemon rind are 
unobtainable, use raisins or currants instead. 

VANILLA COOKIES — Mr. Holmden's 

J^ cup sugar I teaspoon vanilla flavor 

& tablespoons solid vegetable fat l tablespoon milk 

J^' teaspoon salt i egg 

About 25^ cups flour, or enough to make a medium soft dough 

I (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOREtllENTS. ) 2II1 




SCIENCE g/^ FOOD cz«a^i COOKERY 



Put fat, salt, vanilla, and milk into a bowl, and work with a 
spoon until creamy. Add the sugar gradually, stirring constantly 
until well creamed and white. Mix in the well beaten egg, and 
fold in the flour to a rather soft dough. Divide into 2 or 3 pieces 
so as to be handled more easily, and roll out on a well floured 
board to J4 -inch thickness. Cut with a floured ' biscuit cutter, lay' 
in baking pan, ^nd bake in a. medium slow oven to a very light 
brown color. 

ROLLED OAT COOKIES — Mr. Hook's 

Yi cup sugar i cup rolled oats 

S tablespoons solid vegetable fat J^ cup flour 

2 teaspoons molasses i egg 

Yz cup seedless raisins A few grains of salt 

Add the sprinkle of salt and the molasses to the fat, and work 
together in a bowl. Add the sugar gradually, and cream the 
mixture until white and very light. Add the well beaten egg, 
and mix. Add the raisins, then the oats, and lastly the flour. Mix 
lightly, and press off from the side of a tablespoon onto an oiled 
baking pan, leaving a little space between, and bake in a medium 
sloiv oven, to a delicate brown. 

BRAN-FRUIT COOKIES — Mr. Hook's 

J^ cup sugar Yj cup seedless raisins 

S tablespoons solid vege- i cup bran 

table fat o 54 cup flour 

2 teaspoons molasses 1 egg. _ • 

Yi cup chopped walnuts A few grains of salt 

Cream together fat, sugar, salt, and molasses. Add the beaten 
egg, and mix the same as for oat cookies ; then add the other in- 
gredients in the order given, and bake the same as for oat cookies. 



(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE ^ FOOD cmgf COOKERY V i W5 
ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

BOILED FROSTING 

^i cup sugar White of x egg 

54 cup water s ' Flavor 

Dissolve the sugar in tlie water, ^nd continue to stir until it 
boils. Thea let boil undisturbed until a long, hair-like thread will 
blow from a spoon dipped ^in the sirup and lifted. Pour it in a 
slow stream into the beaten white, beating as it is being poured in. 
Add flavoring, and 'beat until light and creamy, and cold enough 
to spread on cake. 

PLAIN ICING No. 1 

' Add confectioner's sugar (powdered sugar) to a small amount 
of light-colored fruit juice,-— pineapple, pear and lemon, or lemon 
juice and water. Stir in enough sifted sugar to form a consistency 
to spread on cake. This icing will not dry out as quickly as boiled 
icing, and it forms a crust over the surface very readily, 

ICING No. 2 

Make the same as No. i, except use cream or milk, or egg yolk, 
or both, as wetting, in the place of water or fruit juice. 

CARAMEL ICING 

Stir J4 cup granulated sugar in a small saucepan over the fire 
until well browned; add J4 cup water, and let boil gently until 
dissolved. Let cool, then add 2 teaspoons lemon juice and eno)ugh 
powdered sugar to spread on cake. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

' 2 tablespoons orange juice i teaspoon lemon juice ' . , 

Rind of I orange (grated; Yolk of i ega 

lightly) Powdered sugar 

Add the rind to the juices, and let stand for 20 minutes. Press 
out through cheesecloth, and add to the beaten yolk. Add con- 
fectioner's sugar until of a consistency to spread on the cake and 
not run. 

(use level measurements for all inoredients. ) 213 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



ORNAMENTAL FROSTING 

For lettering and ornamenting a cake, use the following: Beat 
one white of egg until frothy but not stiff. Add sifted powdered 
sugar gradually, beating constantly until so thick that if will not 
run on a plate. Make a small funnel of a good grade Manila 
paper. Put a teaspoonful of the frosting into the fupnel, cut a 
little piece off the point of the funnel, and press out the sugar in 
the form of letters and simple decorations. In making roses and 
leaves for decoration, the frosting must be stiff enough to hold up 
when pressed out, to retain the shape of leaves, etc. 

LEMON FILLING 

1 cup sugar 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

3 tablespoons I flour 2 teaspoons vegetable butter 

Grated rind of i large lemon i egg 

Sift the sugar and the flour together, beat the egg slightly, mix 
all the ingredients, and cook in a double boiler until thickened, 
stirring often. Let cool; and, spread between layers of cake. 

APPLE-CREAM FILLING 

^ cup grated tart apple ; i egg 

2 tablespoons lemon juice A sprinkle of salt 

?4 cup sugar i i tablespoon vegetable butter 

Mix the apple, the lemon juice, and the sugar, and cook in a 
double boiler until well scalded. Add a sprinkle of salt to the t.^%, 
and beat well, Pour in the hot apple mixture gradually, stirring 
or beating as it is being addpd.- Return to the double boiler, and- 
stir until it thickens; then remove, and stir in the butfer until well 
blended. Let cool. 

ORANGE FILLING 

Yz cup sugar i egg slightly beaten 

Grated rind of Yi orange 2 teaspoons vegetable butter 

Yi cup orange juice 2.Y2 tablespoons flour 

I tablespoon lemon juice A few grains of salt 

214 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIBNTS. ) 





SCIENCE g^ FOOD arid COOKERY 



Mix the sugar and the flour thoroughly, mix all the ingredients, 
and cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly until thickened; 
then cool. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING 

I cup crushed strawberries J4 cup heavy cream 

Sugar to taste * 

Whip the cream, and fold in the sweetened and crushed berries. 
Spread between cakes. 




(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



2IS 





^ 


&. 


' H.'-^J") '" T'-t -■■lit/' 4 — 1 


r^ .«a.. . •. \Va 1 


f 




















jSlim 


IF"'"^^Ss 


1 




JJ 


sJL 












T 




ffi 


i 


,^i(^^^ft 






















^M^^ 






<> 

^ 


iHIII 


J^^^iCi^ 


*J ^*-^ 




^^^:;^^'^iiBaKrA 


1UU'' 










5 


^^ 


'/^ 




^ 


WQgy^ 


mo 



XX. TOASTS, BREAKFAST DISHES, CEREALS, 
EGGS, SANDWICHES 



"Appetite is the best sauce." 

TOASTS 

Toasts are especially nice for breakfast, 
food, yet appetizing and nourishing. 



They are a light 



STRAWBERRY TOAST 

Bring fresh strawberries to the boiling point with enough sugar 
to sweeten. When done, dip a piece of zwieback into the juice 
to soften, lay on a platter, and cover with strawberries. Pour a- 
spoonful of juice over all, and serve. The juice may be thickened 
a little with cornstarch if desired, before dishing up. 

CREAM TOAST 

Moisten zwieback in hot thin cream, lay on a platter, pour a 
spoonful more of cream over, and serve. 

PRUNE TOAST 

/Rub well cooked prunes through a fine colander. Add enough- 
of the prune juice to make it of the consistency to spread on toast 
and not run off. Reheat, and dip a slice of zwieback in hot milk 
or prune juice to soften, lay on a platter, and cover with the 
prune pulp. 



2l6 



(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD (mi{ COOKERY 



CREAM PEAS ON TOAST 

J4 cup green pea pulp J4 cup thin cream 

Salt to taste 

Bring the peas to a boil, drain off the liquid, and mash the peas 

' through a colander, having them separate from the liquid in which 

they were cooked. Add the hot cream, and salt to taste. Reheat, 

dip a piece of zwieback in hot rriilk to soften, lay on a platter, and 

cover with cream peas, which should be thick enough not to run off. 

BANANA CREAM TOAST 

I cup milk I tablespoon sugar or hon°y 

J4 cup- cream or canned milk i tablespoon flour 

2 bananas 

eat the milk to boiling-point, thicken with the flour stirred 
smooth with a little cold milk, and let cook lo minutes. Remove 
from the fire. Add the sugar, a pinch of salt,' cream or canned 
milk, and the sliced bananas. Shake together, reheat for a* few 
minutes, and serve on toast, or on zwieback dipped in. hot milk. 

RAISIN TOAST 

Wash seedless sultana raisins, and stew gently for 30 or 40 

minutes, with just enough liquid to season them, nicely. Thicken 

very slightly (during the boiling period) with cornstarch made 

smooth with cold water. Dip slices of zwieback into hot milk, 

or into the liquid of the stewed raisins, and cover wfith the 

stewed fruit. 

SNOWFLAKE TOAST 

I cup milk I tablespoon vegetable butter 

I tablespoon flour White of i egg 

A few grains of salt 

Rub the butter and the flour' together in a saucepan over the 
fire, add a little of the milk, and stir until smooth and free from 
lumps. Add the remainder of the milk, and boil up. Salt to taste. 
Beat the white stiff, and pour the hot sauce gradually into the 
white, beating with &%% whip to mix yvell. Serve on zwieback 
dipped in milk, or on toast, 

(USE LEVKL HEJASUBEIIBNIS FOK ALL INQRESIENTS. ) 2VJ 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



WALNUT CREAM TOAST 

I cup hot milk , Chopped walnuts • ' .■ 

ij4 tablespoons vegetable butter ij4 tablespoons cream roast flour 
Salt to taste 

Rub the flour and the butter together in a small saucepan. Add 
y^i cup milk, and stir smooth. Add the remainder of the milk, and 
boil up. Salt to taste. Dip a slice of zwieback into hot milk to 
soften, lay on a platter, and spread over with a spoonful of cream 
sauce. Sprinkle finely chopped walnuts over the cream toast, and 
serve immediately. 

CREAM TOMATO TOAST 

Dip a slice of zwieback in hot milk or tomato juice, lay on a 
platter, and cover with a spoonful of cream tomato sauce. 

CEREALS 

Cereals are among the most important of food materials. Chief 
among them are wheat, corn, o^ts, rice, etc., and their products. 
An effort should be made to secure freshly milled, entire cereals, 
such as cracked wheat, ground whole corn rrteal, natural brown 
rice, etc., in the place of the devitamined and devitalized com- 
mercially prepared cereals, meals, and flours so comitionly used. 
Ground whole cereals are rich in natural salts and flavors, which 
are sadly lacking in the refined products, and they require less 
shortening and sugar in their preparation. 

Generally speaking, the breakfast cereals may be separated into 
two classes ; namely, granular and flaked. Granular cereab require 
more water than the flaked, because they contain more material. 
The following are general rules for cooking some of the more 
well-known cereals: 

General Rkles for Cooking Grains. — Add salt to boiling water 
in the inside part of a double boiler. Add the dry grains slowly to 
the boiling water, stirring constantly. Let boil undisturbed until 
the cereal begins to thicken; then put on the cover, and set in the 
outside part of the double boiler, which should be filled a third full 
of boiling water. Cook slowly, covered, for 3 hours or more, and 
keep up the quantity of water in the outside boiler if this should 

2lg (use level imeasurbments for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD tottf COOKERY 



boil away. Cereal cooked in a fireless cooker, of course, needs no 
further attention after the compartment is covered. Dates or 
steamed raisins lightly stirred in, a few minutes before the cereal 
is removed from the fire, make a pleasing variety. 

CRACKED WHEAT 

I cup cracked wheat 4 cups boiling water (or more) 

I ^teaspoon salt 

Follow general rules for cooking the grain, as given above. 

ROLLED OATS 

I cup rolled oats 3 cups boiling water 

Scant I teaspoon salt 

Proceed the same as for cracked wheat. 

CORN MEAL MUSH 

I cup corn meal J^ cup cold water 

2}4 cups boiling water I teaspoon salt 

Blend the corn meal with the cold water, add to the boiling 
water, and stir until it reaches the boiling point. Let boil quite 
rapidly until it begins to thicken ; then set in the outer part of a 
double boiler, or into a fireless cooker, and finish the same as for 
rolled oats. 

BROWNED CORN MEAL MUSH 

Prepare and cook the same as above. When thoroughly cooked, 
pour into an oiled brick-shaped tin (bread tin) ; and when cold, slice 
J4 inch thick, and brown slowly in a slightly oiled skillet or in a 
good oven. Serve with maple sirup or honey. 

STEAMED NATURAL RICE 

I cup natural brown rice zVi cups water 

% teaspoon salt 

Wash the rice thoroughly, drain, add the water and the salt, 
and let boil continuously until the cereal is tender and the liquid 
reduced down dry. Set in the outer boiler, or on the edge of the 
stove, and let steam for 15 minutes. 

Note. — It should be remembered that a wide saucepan has 
more evaporation- surface than a deep, narrow vessel, and that con- 
cuss LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 2I9 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOI^ERY 



sequently, the larger or wider the vessel in which the rice is cooked, 
the more water will be required, proportionately. 

WHITE RICE 

Cook the same as natural rice, except use i cup less of liquid 
than for the same amount of natural brown rice. 

BROWNED RICE 

Yi cup natural rice xyi cups boiling; water 

Put the rice into a small frying pan, and stir over the fire until 
a very light brown color. Add the boiling water, and cook the 
same as for steamed natural rice. 

CREAMED RICE 

Add sufficient hot cream, or milk and a little butter, to the 
above steamed rice to make it creamy but not too soft. Reheat 
and serve. ' 

BANANA RICE 

Slice two bananas into the above hot creamed rice. Coyer, let 
stand five minutes, and serve. 

STEAMED WHEAT 

I cup cleaned wheat 5 cups hot water 

^ teaspoon salt 

Wash the wheat in several waters, and let soak overnight. 
Drain, add the salt and the hot water, and let boil over the fire fgr 
half an hour; then set in a fireless on a hot stone overnight. In 
the absence of a fireless, cook the same as steamed rice. 

STEAMED PEARL BARLEY 

I cup pearl barley 5 cups hot water 

, ; J4 teaspoon salt. 

Soak the barley in cold water overnight, drain, add the hot 
water and the salt, and cook the same as for steamed wheat. 

GRAHAM FRUIT MUSH 

1 cup Graham flour i cup cold water 

2 cups boiling water ' i cup dates or figs 

Scant teaspoon of salt 

220 (USE LEVEL MBASUttEMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Blend the Graham flour with the cold water, add the boiling 
water and the salt, and let cOok over the open fire until it thickens ; 
then set in an outer .boiler, and cook for an hour or rtiore. Wash 
and stone the dates, cut lengthwise into quarters, and add to the 
mush about lo minutes before serving. If dried figs are used, 
they should be steamed first, or else washed, sliced, and cooked 
with the grain. 

GRANO CEREAL WITH DATES 

2 cups boiling water , i cup grano cereal 

10 dates 

Sprinkle the cereal into the boiling water, and stir until thick. 
Add the stoned and quartered dates, mix, and serve with cream. 

EGGS 

Egg albumen (the white of t.z%) usually receives first consid- 
eration in the coolcing of eggs. Xhe white begins to coagulate at 
about 1 80" F. ; and if kept in the water at slightly below the 
boiling point for lo minutes, the white forms into a jelly-like 
consistency, and the yolk is partly cooked. Boiling water hardens 
the white; and if subjected to dry heat, it becomes of a leathery 
consistency. 

BOILED EGOS 

Let the eggs down into boiling water with a spOon, and boil 
2^/2 to 3 minutes for soft, and 4' minutes for mediiim. Serve at 
once. Hard-boiled eggs should remain in the water for 20 minutes. 

POACHED EGGS 

Bring water to a boil in a saucepan, with a little salt to flavor. 
Break the eggs one at a time into a sauce dish, and let down gently 
into the hot water. Set where the water will keep just below the 
boiling point; and when the white is "set," lift out on a perforated 
spoon, and place on toastj or on a warm dish, and serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Break 2 eggs into a bowl, add i tablespoon milk, and beat only 
slightly. Oil a frying pan, and when hot, add the eggs and a 

(USE LEVEL MEASXntEMBNTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 221 

15 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



sprinkle of salt, and scrape the bottom of the pan continuously 
with a silver spoon until the mixture is soft and jellied. Remove 
the eggs from the fire while they are softer than wished for 
serving, as they will continue to cook and harden after they are 
removed from the fire. If salt is added before eggs are partly 
cooked, it tends to give them a red color. 

SCRAMBLED" EGG WITH NEW TOMATO 

Scald and peel 2 medium sized ripe tomatoes, cut them into 
quarters, and put on the stove in a small covered saucepan. Add a 
little salt, and bring to a good boil. Turn them into a colander, 
and drain off the juice; then add i teaspoon vegetable butter, and- 
reheat. Have a skillet oiled. When hot, break in 2 eggs. Stir 
quickly, so they will cook evenly. When they are soft cooked, add 
the tomatoes, mix lightly, and serve on toast. 

STEAMED EGGS 

Oil a skillet, and when slightly hot, break in the eggs, and 
sprinkle over them about 3 tablespoons or more of water for every 
2 eggs. Sprinkle lightly with salt, cover with a tight-fittirig cover, 
and cook over a medium fire until white over the top, like a 
poached egg, at the same time soft cooked. Remove, and serve 
immediately. 

JELLIED OR CODDLED EGG 

Put I pint of water into a small saucepan, and bring to a boil. 
Drop I egg into the water with a spoon, and set the vessel on the 
table for 7 minutes. Remove from the water and serve. If mfire 
eggs are added, the water must be increased in proportion. Like- 
wise, if the saucepan is wide-mouthed or broad, there must be 
more than enough boiling water to cover the eggs. The rule is a 
pint to an &^^ in a deep utensil. 

PLAIN OMELET 

Beat 2 eggs slightly. Add i tablespoon milk and a sprinkle of 
salt. Put 2 teaspoons vegetable butter in a (preferably round and 
hollow-bottomed) frying pan, and when quite hot, add the eggs, 
and keep them continuously in motion, by shaking the pan, or by 
constantly working with a silver fork as for scrambled tg%, at the 

222 (VSE, LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



start. When the mass is soft cooked, let rest on the - fire as you 
pick up one side with a spoon or a fork, fold over to the other 
side, and turn out on a hot platter. Serve immediately. 

OMELET PUFF 

I egg I tablespoon milk Salt 

Beat the yolk until thick, a4d the milk, and mix well. 'Add a 
few grains of salt to the white, and beat until stiff. Fold the yolk, 
mixture into the white, and turn into a hot oiled frying pan. Put 
into the oven, and bake until barely set; then, while it is still in 
the pan, turn one half of the omelet over the other half by slipping 
a knife undei- one side and turning it over the other section; Invert 
on a hot platter, and serve at once. 

BREAD OMELET 

Make the same as omelet puff, except that J-^ cup fresh bread 
crumbs are added, after being moistened with sufficient cold milk 
to soften. Add the softened crumbs to the beaten yolk, and fold 
into the beaten white. . Bake the same as omelet puff. 

SANDWICHES ' ' 

In a family where lunches have to be ptit up, it is a very im- 
portant matter to know how these lunches. may be prepared in a 
wholesome manner. For- making sandwiches, the bread should be 
reasonably fresh, should be cut thin and even, and spread scantily 
with butter. Then spread filling on one slice, place the other slice 
over, and cut 'into desired size and style. 

NUT AND JELLY SANDWICH 

Add chopped walnuts to jelly, and spread on buttered 'bread. 

NUT BUTTER AND OLIVE SANDWICH 

Dissolve the nut butter with cold water to thick cream. Add 
chopped olives. Serve a leaf of lettuce and mayonnaise between 
slices if desired. 

NUT AND TOMATO SANDWICH 

Mash equal parts of nuttolene and tomato to a paste with a 
fork. Season. Serve with lettuce; leaf and mayonnaise. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INOEEDIENTS.) 323 




ll^ SCIENCE ^ FOOD anct COOKERY 



EGG SANDWICH 

Chop hard-boiled eggs very fine, season with mayonnaise, and 
serve with lettuce leaf. 

BEAN SANDWICH 
Spread bean puree on buttered bread, using lettuce and mayon- 
naise dressing. v 
TOMATO SANDWICH 
Peel tomatoes, slice thin, and serve with mayonnaise. 

EGG AND TOMATO SANDWICH 

Scramble eggs soft. Add an equal quantity of stewed, drained 
tomatoes. Mix well, let cool, and use. 

DATE AND NUT SANDWICH 

Grind walnuts and dates through a mill. Season with lemon 
juice. 

HONEY AND NUT SANDWICH 

Use Yi cup honey, i tablespoon lemon juice. Add chopped 
walnuts to make stiff paste. 

/ ' RAISIN SANDWICH 

Chop }i cup seeded raisins and ^ cup walnuts very fine. Add 
Ij4 tablespoons mayonnaise and i teaspoon lemon juice. Mix into 
paste, and spread on scantily buttered bread. 

NUT AND FRUIT SANDWICH 

Grind gqUal parts of steamed dried figs and seeded raisins to- 
gether through a mill, or chop fine. Add enough chopped walnuts - 
to spread nicely on iDread. Season with lemon juice. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICH 

Slice cucumbers thin. Add grated onion and salt to taste. 
Butter the bre^d thinly. Fill between slices with cucumber, lettuce 
leaf, and mayonnaise or salad dressing. 

PICNIC SANDWICH 

Put % cup tomato pulp and 2 teaspoons vegetable butter into 
a small saucepan, add salt to taste, and bring to a boil. Beat 2 
eggs, and pour' in gradually the hot mixture ; then return it to the 

224 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




A tramp over tlie hills to make 
one's appetite keen. 



fire, and continue to stir until thickened slightly, but do not boil. 
Roll 8 white crackers fine, and add sufficient to make a mixture 
that will spread nicely. Let cool, and use as filling between thin , 
slices of scantily buttered bread. 

SAVORY EGG SANDWICH ^ 



3 eggs 

i.^ tablespoons vegetable butter 



2 tablespoons chopped onion 
Yi cup stewed tomato 



Put the butter and the onion into a small saucepan, and let 
simmer together to soften the onion. Add the tomato, and bring 
to a boil. Add the beaten eggs all at once, and continue to stir 
rapidly until soft scrambled and evenly cooked. Salt to taste, 
let cool, and use the same as for picnic sandwich. 

PIMENTO AND COTTAGE CHEESE SANDWICH 

Mix creamed cottage cheese with chopped pimento. Cut thin 
slices of white bread lengthwise of the loaf. Spread liberally with 
mayonnaise, then with a layer of the cheese mixture. Lay a slice 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 225 



SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 




of bread over this, and spread with mayonnaise, then with a layer 
of the cheese mixture. Repeat until you have a thickness of 5 or 
6 slices (like layer cake). Cut and serve the same as layer cake. 

OLIVE AND TOMATO SANDWICH 

I cup chopped tomato Yz cup chopped ripe olives 

(thick pkrt only) Mayonnaise 

Mix the ingredients, and serve between slices of slightly but- 
tered bread. 

CELERY AND OLIVE SANDWICH 

Chop celery very fine, and add chopped olives in the proportion 
of 2 parts celery to i part olives. Season with mayonnaise, and 
make the same as above. 

OLIVE AND BELL PEPPER SANDWICH 

Yz cup finely chopped sweet pepper Y^ cup chopped ripe olives 

2 teaspoons chopped onion Mayonnaise 

Mix and spread the same as above. 

SPINACH AND EGG SANDWICH 

I cup chopped cooked' spinach i teaspoon chopped onion 

4 hard-boiled eggs chopped fine Mayonnaise 

Mix and spread the same as, above, 

CARROT AND PEAS SANDWICH 

I cup grated young carrot i cup cooked peas (drained) 

Mayonnaise or cream mayonnaise 

Mix, and spread slices of bread the same as above. I 

TARTAR SANDWICH 

Chop the following vegetables fine: green onion, cucumber, 
sweet pepper, celery, lettuce, and tomato (solid part). Press out 

226 'USE LEVEL MEASUSEMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 





SCIENCE of FOOD aw^ COOKERY 



most of the superfludus water, and season with plenty of mayon- 
naise and chopped parsley. Serve between slices of bread, the 
same as above. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Put eggs into boiling water, ■ and let simmer for 20 minutes ; 
then drain and put into cold water. When cold, remove the 
shells, and split through lengthwise. Mash the yolks through a 
strainer, and season with finely chopped olives, sweet pepper or 
chopped pimento, and oil and lemon' juice or a little mayonnaise. 
Refill the whites with the yolk mixture, having them well rounded, 
and serve on lettuce leaves. ; ' 




(use level measurements for all ingreuients.) 



227 




Illlll 



XXI. COOKERY FOR THE SICK 

"Every seeker after health should he absorbed by the thought that 
I better health is possible." ' 

Most women can prepare a satisfactory meal for those who are 
well;. but when a member of the family succumbs to disease, then 
the question of feeding' becomes one of supreme moment. A nor- 
mal appetite in a state of health is more or less a safe guide to 
follow in the choice of foods best suited to the needs of the body. 
But in sickness, the appetite is so often perverted by disease con- 
ditions, that its cravings cannot safely be considered; therefore the 
patient should not be consulted as to his menu, nor should' conver- 
sation relating to his diet bc/ .carried on within his hearing. The 
' physician in attendance has studied the symptoms, and is best able 
to determine what is required to meet the needs of the case. 

So far , as possible, let the element of pleasant surprise enter 
into the planning of the invalid's meal. Nervous patients espe- 
cially are likely to be depressed in the early morning; therefore the 
breakfast tray should be made as attractive as possible, by the use 
of a bright flower or two. Some important considerations in the 
pare and feeding of the sick follow: 

I. Appeal to the sense of sight. Foods that are pleasing to the 
sense of sight stimulate the flow of digestive juices, while disa- 
greeable sights and odors hinder J;he same. 



228 



(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



2. Appeals to the sense of taste. All eating is influenced by the 
sense of taste; Some foods that might be easily digested if tastily 
prepared, m*y prove indigestible if repugnant to the patieint. 

3. Temperature of food and dishes. The temperature of food 
served to the sick has a marked influence on the digestion. There- 
fore hot foods should be served as hot as possible, and cold dishes 
as cold as is consistent with digestion. If food must be carried 
some distance to a patient, devise means of keeping it hot en route. 
Heat cups and platters before using them to serve any food for 
the sick. 

4. Quantity. Bring to the patient at each' meal only the quan- 
tity that is likely to be eaten, so far as can be judged. A large 
amount may so discourage a weak appetite that nothing will be 
eat^. The same thought applies in regard to too much decoration, 
for the ti-ay. As one has well said, "It is as much out of place to 

, send a large bouquet of flowers on a tray, as to serve a whole 
plum pudding." 

5. Nutritive value of foods. The nurse should be a student 
of the classification of foods, their fuel value and digestibility, 
thus being able to regulate properly the rations for her patients. 

6. Gruels. In the preparation of gruels from uncooked cereals, 
the rules for cooking all starchy foods should be observed. The 
dry grain should be ^dded to boiling water, and subjected to long, 
slow cooking. It should be carefully seasoned, and of a consistency 
to be taken through a siphon. Most gruels are made more pal- 
atable -by the addition of a little cream just before serving. In a 
few special cases, however, milk and cream would not be per- 
missible ; 'hence inquiry should be made of the physician in charge 
if there is any question about the case. 

Some patients, during the early stages of convalescence, have 
an abnormally large appetite, which, if not restricted, would lead 
to overfeeding, and thus prove injurious; while with others, the 
appetite needs to be stimulated. 

The best means of stimulating the appetite is good, wholesome 
food, well cooked and attractively served, ^yhile the invalid's meal 
should generally be of a simple nature, there should be the greatest 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 22g 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



daintiness in serving it; and an eflfort sliould be made to create a 
desire for food, to replace the distaste that often exists. The tray 
should be covered with spotless linen, and should not have the 
appearance of being overcrowded. If a small amount is served, 
have a small tray. 

INVALID RECIPES 

OATMEAL GRUEL , 

J4 cup oatmeal A few grains of salt 

2 cups hot water Cream or milk if desired, 

Sprinkle the oatmeal into the boiling water, and let it continue 

to boil until it begins to thicken slightly; then set in a ' double 

^'boiler, and let cook for 2 hours. Strkin through, a fine strainer, 

and dilute it 'with a little hot water if it is too thick. Reheat, and 

season with salt, and cream if desired. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL 

Put J4 cup corn meal into a small saucepan, and blend with J4 
cup cold water. Add 2 cups boiling water and a few grains of 
salt, and proceed to cook and finish the same as oatmeal gruel. 

GLUTEN GRUEL 

Put 3 tablespoons gluten meal into a small saucepan, and blend 
with 4 tablespoons cold, water. Add i cup of boiling water, and 
let boil up well, or until of tjie desired consistency. Strain, ana 
season with a little cream, if admissible. 

GRANOSE GRUEL 

Crush 2 granose biscuits in a small saucepan, add 2 cups of 
boiling water, and let boil for a few minutes. Strain, and season 
the same as for gluten gruel. 

FLAKE GRUEL 

Add toasted rice biscuit or corn flakes to boiling water in a 
small saucepan, until of the desired consistency. Strain, and season 
the same as for gluten gruel. 

2^Q (USE LEVEL Measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD emd COOKERY 



CRACKER GRUEL 

Put 3 tablespoons cracker meal into a small saucepan, and blend 
with 4 tablespoons of cold milk. Add % cup of boiling milk, and 
let cook until of the desired consistency. Strain and serve. 

RICE GRUEL 

Wash . ^ cup of natural rice thoroughly, and drain. Add 3 
cups of boiling water, and let boil gently until well done. Mash 
through a colander; then strain through a fine strainer, and season 
the same as for oatmeal gruel. 

BROWNED FLOUR GRUEL 

Blend 4 tablespoons browned flour with 5 tablespoons cold milk, > 
and make smooth. Add i cup hot milk, and bring to a boil. Add 
salt to taste, strain, and serve. 

WHITE FLOUR GRUEL 

Add gradually 3 tablespoons cOld milk to 2 tablespoons white 
flour, and mix until smooth and free from lumps. Add. i cup hot 
milk, and bring gradually to the boiling point ; then set in an 6uter 
boiler, and let cook for 10 to 20 'minutes'. Salt to taste, strain, 
and serve. 

BARLEY WATER 

, Wash y^ cup of pearl barley, and let soak overnight. Drain 
and wash thoroughly. Add i quart of water, and let boil gently 
until the barley is thoroughly done, and the liquid measures about 
ij^ cups. Serve plain, with sajt to taste, or with cream, as the 
case may require. 

RICE WATER 
Wash >^ cup natural rice, add 3 cups water, and let boil gently 
until well done. Strain lightly, and season the water with a little 
salt and cream, if admissible. 

TOAST WATER 

Cut 2 slices of bread about Yz inch thick, remove the crust, and 
bake in a slow oven until thoroughly dried and well ■ browned. 
Break into pieces, add i>4 cups of boiling water, cover, and let 

(OSE LEVEL MEASCKEMENTS FOR ALL INOBEDIENTS. ) 23I 



SCffiNCE 9^ FOOD and COOKERY 



:^ 



stand I hour. Squeeze through a cheesecloth, reheat, and serve 

plain, or season with a little cream, or as directed by the one 

in charsre. 

^ FLAXSEED TEA 

Wash % cup of flaxseed thoroughly, drain, and add 3 cups 9f 

boiling water. Let boil gently until well done, which will require 

from I to 2 hours. Drain, and season the liquid with lemon juice 

and a sprinkle of salt. A little sugar may be needed. 

BRAN TEA No. 1 

To clean, uncooked bran, add water at a temperature of -120° F. 
Cover, and set on the back of the stove to draw for 6 hours, being 
careful that it does not get hot. Strain, and serve plain, or sea- 
soned with a little rich cream. If cold water is used in' the place 
of warm water, the bran should be allowed to soak overnight. 
Strain and serve immediately. 

BRAN TEA No. 2 

Wash a good grade of potato parings, add cold water, and let 
simmer very slowly for 2 to 3 hours, using great care that they 
do not cook, except enough to extract the salts. Strain, mix with 
the bran tea, and serve. 

VEGETABLE WATER 

Wash 2 bunches of spinach, or other tender green vegetable 
tops, in several waters. Add 2 carrots, scraped and sliced, 2 tur- 
nips, 2 green onions, 2 parsnips, or salsify, and a little cabbage. 
Cover with plenty of cold water, add salt to taste, and. bring 
gradually to a boil. Let boil gefttly for 2 or 3 hours, or longer, if 
convenient, then drain well. Salt to taste, and serve plain, or with 
chopped parsley and soup royale. (See also page 124.) 

VEGETABLE BROTH (Special) 

2 cups thinly sliced raw potato J^Vup thick cream (or I 
• I cup sliced bleached lettuce beaten egg) 

I stalk celery ^ teaspoon salt 

I sprig parsley 2 beet leaves (if at hand) 

I teaspoon chopped green onion 4 cups cold water 

Slice or chop the vegetables fine, add the cold water and the 
salt, and let boil slowly for 30 minutes or more. Cook the cream 

232 (use level measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



down in a skillet or a saucepan until the free fat separates and the 
albumen turns a light golden brown color. Remove from the fire, 
and pour ofiE as much of the free fat as possible. Break up the 
vegetables slightly, with a spoon, but do not mash, and drain care- 
fully into the browned cream. Bring to a boil, salt to taste, and 
let simmer slowly for lo or 15 minutes; then strain, skim well, 
and serve with small toasted crackers. When egg is used in the 
place of cream, heat 2 tablespoons of vegetable fat in a saucepan, 
and add the beaten egg. Stir constantly until all the small par- 
ticles are a. light golden brown; then use the same as the browned 
cream albumen. 

HOT MALTED MILK 

Put a heaping tablespoon of malted milk into a small saucepan 
or an earthen pot. Add enough warrh water to mix to a perfectly 
smooth paste. Add boiling water sufficient to make a, cupful, mix 
well, and serve immediately. 

ALBUMENIZED WATER 

White of I egg ^ cup water 

Stir the white of the egg (using a silver fork), that the al- 
bumen may easily dissolve as the water is added gradually. Add , 
a few grains of salt, strain, and serve. 

LEMON ALBUMEN 

White of I egg Chipged ice 

I tablespoon lemon juice J^ glass water 

Put the white of the &%% and a little chipped ice into a glass. 
Beat slightly with a fork, to break and coagulate the egg. Add 
lemon juice and water, mix. well, and serve. 

ALBUMENIZED MILK 

I cup cold milk 5^ teaspoon sugar 

White of I egg A, sprinkle of salt 

Vanilla flavor 

Whip the white of egg slightly with a silver fork, add the milk 
and other ingredients, mix well, strain into a glass, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOREDIENTS. ) 233 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancC COOKERY 



JUNKET 

1 pint milk about ioo° F. A sprinkle of sugar 
Yz junket tablet i teaspoon cold water 

Vanilla flavor to taste 

Dissolve the tablet in the cold water, mix all the ingredients, and 
let stand in a warm place until set. 

LEMONADE 

2 tablespoons lemon juice i tablespoon sugar 

Yi, cup water 

Mix the lemon juice and the sugar, add cold water, strain, 
and serve. 

EGG LEMONADE 

I egg 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

54 cup cold water i}4 tablespoons sugar 

_ A sprinkle of salt 

Beat the egg thoroughly, add sugar, salt, and lemon juice, 
and mix. Add the water gradually, stirring constantly. Strain 
and serve. 

ORANGE ALBUMEN 

Yi cup orange juice Ya cup crushed ice 

Yi tablespoon sugar White of i egg 

A few grains of salt 

Beat the white of ^%% with a silver fork, add orange juice, 
salt, and sugar, and strain over the crushed ice. 

LEMON WHEY 

1 cup milk Ya cup lemon juice 

Add lemon juice to milk, and inix. Let stand lo minutes, or 
until it curdles. Strain through cloth, and serve. 

CREAM EGGNOG 

I egg, separated A sprinkle of sugar 

Yi cup thin cream 4 or S drops of vanilla flavor 

Beat the yolk until light-colored and foamy. Beat the white 
stiff. Add the sugar, the vanilla, and a speck of salt to the beaten 
yolk. Then mix in the cream, and fold into the beaten white of 
the egg, reserving a spoonful of white for the top of the glass. 

234 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIEl^TS. ) 




SCIENCE if FOOD ancT COOKERY 



FRUIT EGGNOG 

Yi cup grape juice or prune juice i egg separated 

A sprinkle of sugar if needed 

Beat the egg the same as for cream eggnog. Add the fruit 
juice to the beaten yolk, and sugar if needed, and mix well. Fold 
into the stiffly beaten white of egg, and serve the same as cream 
eggnog. A tablespoon of rich cream added to the beaten yolk will 
add to the palatabiHty and also to the caloric value of fruit eggnog. 

ORANGE EGGNOG 

Yz cup orange juice / i tablespoon ricK cream 

I teaspoon sugar I egg separated 

Beat the yolk the same asi- for cream eggnog. Add the cream 
and the sugar, and beat; then add the orange juice, fold into the 
stiffly beaten white of egg, and serve the same as cream eggtiog. 

DRY EGGNOG 

1 egg separated i tablespoon blackberry juice 

2 teaspoons rich cream or sweetened lembn juice 

A sprinkle of salt 

Beat the yolk the same as for cream eggnog. Add the cream, 
and beat; then mix in the sweetened fruit juice, fold into the 
beaten white of &^g, and serve. 

BAKED BANANA No. 1 

Select firm, not overripe bananas, put them into a hot oven 
-without removing the skins, and bake until the skin is dark and 
they begin to burst. Serve at once. 

BAKED BANANA No. 2 

Removd the skins from firm bananas, lay in an oiled baking 
pan, and pour over- them nearly enough lemon, sauce (page i6o) 
to cover them. Bake until tender and slightly browned. Water 
and lemon juice may be used in the place of lemon sauce, but are 
not quite so good. 



(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 235 




^ 



XXII. DIET IN DISEASE 

By Dr. Lavina Herzer 

Instructor in Nutrition and Cooking 

at Loma Linda Sanitarium 



"Dainty and appetizing 
food for the sick." 



The diet prescribed for patients' who are very ill, is usually 
altogether liquid, such as fruit juices, milk, gruels, broths, eggnogs, 
and ices and ice cream; while a less rigid diet, known as "light 
diet," or convalescent diet, consists of such nutritious and^ easily 
digested foods as soft cooked eggs, cream tbast, flakes and cream, 
oatmeal and cream, broths, etc. 

There is no specific food cure. We can only give such foods 
as will furnish Nature with proper materials for building up the 
body resistance, and withhold such substances as would hinder her 
in her work. In nearly all cases of illness, the individual is less 
active, the digestion suffers more or .less, and the appetite is 
poor. For this reason, all foods should be . simple and easily 
digested. "Special diet" includes certain dietary formulas suitable 
in particular diseases in the treatment of which diet plays a very 
important part. A few of these are given in the following lists: 

Acute infectious diseases : influenza, measles, pneumonia, mumps, whopp- 
ing cough, scarlet fever, typhoid fever 

Gastric disorders: low acidity, high acidity, ulcer of the stomach, car- 
cinoma (cancer) of the stomach 

Intestinal disorders: constipation, colitis (chronic), diarrhea 

Tuberculosis , 

Diabetes 

Nephritis 

Anaemia 

DIET IN THE ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

In the acute infectious diseases of short duration, a strictly 
liquid diet is usually indicated if there is fever present. 

Influenza. — During the height of the fever, use a liquid diet ; 
and as the fever abates, gradually add some of the soft .foods, such 



236 



(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



as cream toast, well cooked cereal and milk or cre^m, soft cooked 
eggs, flakes and cream, etc. The diet during convalescence should 
be very nutritious and easily digested, so that strength may be 
regained as rapidly as possible. ^ 

Measles. — The dietetic treatment for measles is similar to that 
for influenza. 

Pneumonia. — Cold liquids in abundance aid in lowering the 
temperature and increase elimination. Avoid effervescent drinks. 
During convalescence, a very nourishing diet is indicated. 

Mumps. — Liquid or semiliquid of bland foods. Avoid acids. 
Anaemia is likely to follow, hence the articles listed as high in 
iron should be added as soon as possible. 

Whooping Cough. — There is always a great loss of weight, 
due partially to vomiting. Always replace a meal lost soon after 
it is taken. Give nourishing, easily digested foods listed under 
semisolid diet. 

Scarlet Fever. — Give plenty of cold liquids. Milk is the 
stand-by in these cases. It may be modified by cereal water, lime- 
water, or infant foods. Children seldom tire of it. Fruit juices 
and lemonade are used also. The most dreaded complication is 
inflammation of the kidneys, which may develop late in convales- 
cence. Therefore it is very important to keep the child on a bland 
Miet' throughout the course of the disease. Especially avoid pro- . 
teins, as eggs, meat, meat broths, etc. Use salt sparingly, and 
gradually return to a normal diet. 

Typhoid Fever. — Typhoid fever is caused by the entrance of 
the bacillus typhosus into the intestinal tract. The disease is largely- 
spread by filth, flies, food, and fingers. Very careful disinfection 
and screening should be practiced in all cases, in order to avoid 
spreading the disease. All food left uneaten by the patient should 
be burned or buried. The dishes should be kept separate, and 
boiled for five minutes after each meal. 

In this condition, there is .an increased expenditure of energy, 
due to the presence of bacteria in the intestines. For this reason, 
the typhoid patient will require as much food as if doing a 
moderate amount of muscular work. The tendency at the present 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOE ALL INOREDIENTS. ) 237 

16 




SCIENCE of ¥OOD and COOKERY 



time is away from the starvation diet formerly practiced. The 
leading authorities advocate giving the patient as much easily 
digested food as he can properly assimilate. This will va:ry with 
the condition of the patient. 

If the appetite can be fostered, a great deal is gained. Variety 
in the meals and in the manner of serving, also proper attention to 
keeping the teeth and the mouth in a cleanly condition, will aid in 
this matter. Carefully avoid overfeeding, which may cause indi- 
gestion and defeat its own end. ■ 

In giving a liquid diet, feed every two or three hours during 
the day, and every four hours during the night, unless otherwise 
instructed. The following is a partial list of' foods irlcluded: 

LIQUID DIET 

Milk boiled, cold, hot, malted. Soups (well strained) 

skimmed, or pancreatized. Albumen water 

buttermilk, yogurt, whey Eggnogs 

Milk modified by adding water, |''°*^. . 

limewater, mineral waters, Ice"criam"(little sugar) 

cream, cereal coflfee, in- Fruit ices 

fant foods Malted nuts 

Gruels from all cereals (well Meltose 

strained) Lactose for sweetening drinks 

Diastase may be used to digest partially the starch in gruels. 
The caloric value of liquid foods may be increased by the addition i 
of cream, white of egg, or whole egg. 

SOFT, SEMISOLID, OR SEMILIQUID DIET » 

Toast, softened in milk' or soup Junket 

Eggs, soft cooked or raw Gelatin 

Breakfast cereals, well cooked, 'A ^'lY^luce 

and strained unless very gP^^^ hZlr,^ 

""^ . Prune puree 

Soups (stramed) Blancmange 

Baked and mashed potato Cereal and milk puddings 

DIET IN GASTRIC DISORDERS 

A few simple suggestions that apply in all cases of digestive 
disturbances follow": 

1. Food should be thoroughly masticated. 

2. Meals should be taken at regular intervals, 'in moderate quantities. 
238 ■ (use level measurements for all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



3. No food whatever should be taken between meals. 

4. The food should be fairly concentrated. 

5. Meals should not be taken when the patient is fatigued. 

6. Avoid a large variety at one meal. Use no more than three or four 

articles at a meal. Get a variety at different meals. 

7. Drink fluid one hoiir before or three hours after meals. 

8. Take daily systematic exercise in the open air. 

9. Take a daily bath. Keep the bowels open. 

10. Use reason in choosing your food, and then forget about it. 

11. Avoid worry. 

ARTICLES TO BE AVOIDED IN ALL CASES 

1. Rich soups, gravies, and sauces 

2. Strong condiments 

3. Fresh soft breads of all- kinds 

4. Griddlecakes 

5. Pastry of all kinds 

6. All jams, jellies, sweet puddings, and candies 

7. Sugar in all forms, especially with milk 

8. Raw vegetables, except the finer ones 

9. All coarse, heavy vegetables, as beans, sweet potatoes, boiled turnip, 

cabbage, etc. 

10. Large amounts of fat 

11. Game of all kinds 

12. All smoked or canned meats, shellfish,- etc. 

13. Stews, hash, etc. 

14. Cheese of all kinds, except cottage cheese 

15. Very acid or very sweet fruits, also dried fruits and nuts 

16. Tea, coffee, cider, chocolate, and tobacco 

Low Acidity. — The meals should be separated sufficiently that 
the stomach may empty itself and have time for rest. The diet 
should not be too bland, as that would fail to stimulate gastric 
secretion. It may be best to begin with partially predigested foods, 
as malted foods, pancreatized milk, dextrinized cereals, etc. The 
following foods are adapted to these cases : 

Stale whole wheat bread, toast, zwieback, crackers, etc. 

The finer vegetables, as squash, tomato, etc., also vegetable purees 

Fats in small amounts, as cream, butter, olives, olive oil, etc. 

Eggs simply cooked without fat 

Fruits cooked or raw, especially oranges, lemons, and grapefruit 

Buttermilk, yogurt, cottage cheese, skimmed milk 

Desserts, the simplest only 

The presence of protein food in the stomach tends to stimulate 
gastric Secretion. Avoid drinking at meals, as that dilutes the 
gastric juice. Avoid all fresh breads and rich, fatty foods. 

(use level measurements for all inqredibnts.) 239 



niirninu;*!* 




SCIENCE s^ FOOD and COOKERY 



High Acidity. — Use proteins in normal amounts. Increase the 
fats. Use salt sparingly. Avoid all highly seasoned savory foods. 
Use a diet similar to the one recommended for ulcer of the stomach. 

Ulcer of the Stomach. — Milk is one of the best foods for this 
condition. In some instances, it may need to be diluted. Fresh 
sweet buttermilk, ice cream (with very little sugar), cottage cheese, 
butter, olive oil, etc., are excellent. The following also are suitable : 

The fine cereals well Cooked 

Any of the prepared cereals, as granose flakes, puffed wheat, etc. 
Gruels 

Browned rice 
Granose and rice biscuit 
Stale white bread 
White zwieback 
Infant foods 
- Milk soups (strained) 
PurSe of peas, spinach, corn, and squash 

Milk-cereal puddings, plain custard, prune whip, date whip, cream eggnog 
Mild fruits and fruit purees j 

Avoid condiments, savory dishes, sweets, acid fruits, raw fruits, 
all coarse foods, worry, excitement, fatigue. 

The latter pf-ecautions are especially important in this condition. 
Rest before and after each meal is helpful if the rest cure cannot 
be taken. 

Carcinoma (Cancer) of the Stomach. — The food should be 
concentrated, nonTirritating, and in an easily digestible form. Milk 
in any form is a very important article of diet. Cereal may be 
cooked in milk; or toast soaked in milk may be used. Sour mflk, 
or one of the artificial preparations, as yogurt, is recommended by 
authorities on the subject, as it forms a smaller curd in the intes- 
tines. In severe cases, milk may be predigested. The bread used 
should be stale or toasted. Vegetables are best in the form of 
purees. Fats should be given sparingly. Eggs may be used soft 
cooked or raw. Only the bland fruits should be taken, as pears, 
baked sweet apple, prune puree, etc. Plain puddings may be used; 
also ice cream. 

Avoid condiments, sweets, fried foods, pastry, all rich fatty 
foods, all irritating foods, acid fruits and vegetables, large amounts 
of fat, 

2^0 (^^^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INCREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



In all the late stages, the patient's appetite may as well be 
gratified, as far as possible. Rectal feeding may give relief when 
the stomach refuses to digest the food. 

DIET IN INTESTINAL DISORDERS 

The disorders considered under this heading are not really 
diseases, but symptoms resulting from various conditions. Never- 
theless, because of the frequency with which they occur, and the 
important part played by a proper diet, they ^re included in 
this chapter. 

Constipation. — There are many causes of constipation, some of 
them having little reference to diet ; but many cases are closely 
related to the amount and kind of food ingested. Some of the 
most common causes that ought to be mentioned are: 

1. The use of too concentrated diet, which includes the use of 
refined and demineralized cereal products, flesh foods, etc. 

2. Irregularity in meals. , 

3. Insufficient fats. 

4. Insufficient amount of food. 

5. Hurry, worry, and straih. 

6. Neglect to. answer nature's call. 

Other rational treatment should be employed, such as exercise, 
bathing, etc., besides a laxative diet. Some foods that will aid in 
increasing peristaltic action of the intestines are: • 

All whole meal cereals Ripe olives 

All whole meal breads GHve oil 

Bran, and bran preparations Cream 

Raw vegetable salads Yogurt 

Nuts Buttermilk 

Agar-agar, plain or in fruit gelatin Butter 

Honey Molasses 

All fruits, both fresh and cooked, are excellent, especially 
prunes, figs, and dates; also cooked vegetables, preferably onions, 
corn, and spinach. 

Colitis, Chronic. — The principal symptoms of chronic colitis 
are gas on the bowels, mucus in the stool,, nervous depression, and 
frequently abdominal pain. The gas and the mucus are the results 

(use level measurements for all ingredients. ) 241 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



of irritation of the mucous membrane, which is aggravated by tlie 
use of certain foods, as berries, because their seeds are sharp; 
coarse vegetables, because of the large amount of cellulose; the 
skins of fruits, for the same reason; acids, etc. 

The first step in the treatment, therefore, would be to avoid any 
foods that would irritate the intestinal tract. The followmg is a 
list of foods that usually give trouble under these conditions : 

Fruits, especially raw Coarse vegetables, ^specially raw 

Acids ' Cooked vegetables, as potatoes. 

Nuts turnips, beets, etc. 

Sweets Oatmeal 

All coarse cereals 

A browned flour gruel made with milk, or cream toast, to begm 
with, will relieve an inflamed intestinal tract, with the accompany- 
ing gas. In a large number of cases, very good results have been 
secured by the use of well cooked prunes, or prune pulp, served 
with rich cream. The fat of the cream serves to neutraUze any 
acid contained in this mild fruit; and with the cessation of gas, 
the unpleasant symptoms readily disappear. Additional foods that 
may be used are corn flakes and cream, browned rice with cream, 
cream soups, stale bread, etc. As the symptoms pass away, return 
gradually to a normal diet. 

Diarrhea. — If the condition is at all severe, the patient should 
be put to bed. Avoid all laxative foods. In mild cases, the fol- 
lowing foods may be used: 

Gruels well strained Macaroni 

Milk or cream toast Milk and cereal puddings 

Soft cooked eggs Custards 

Cream soups Blancmange 

Dry toast, zwieback, crackers, and stale bread of fine flour 

Avoid all fruits, vegetables, fried foods, and sweets. 
In severe cases, use the following: 

Browned flour gruel Blackberry juice 

White flour gruel Raw egg albumen 

Boiled milk Pancreatized milk 

242 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 





SCIENCE gf FOOD <md COOKERY 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 

In tuberculosis, there is a great drain on the patient's strength, 
and proper feeding and sanitary surroundings are very important 
factors in the cure. The old practice of "stuffing" the tubercular 
patient is no longer followed. Three nourishing rneals a day are 
usually sufficient. But if the appetite is poor, and little is eaten, a 
glass of milk or an eggnog, may be given at prescribed intervals 
between meals. These patients, as a rule, bear an increase in fats 
well. The amount of protein and mineral salts should be increased. 

The heaviest meal should be taken while the temperature is 
nearest normal. Special care should be exercised to make the 
meals tempting and attractive in these cases, as the appetite is often 
poor. The patient should strictly avoid 'swallowing his sputum, for 
he may reinfect himself in this way. Fatigue should be avoided. 

Foods High in Protein 



Milk 

Cottage cheese 

Eggs 

Peas, beans, lentils 

Almonds 



Spaghetti 



Malted nuts 
Entire wheat bread 
Cracked wheat 
Oatmeal ' 

Macaroni 



Foods High in Fats 

Cream VValnuts 

Egg yolk Butter 

Ripe olives Olive oil 

Solid vegetable fats 

DIET IN DIABETES MELLlTUS 

In the treatment of diabetes mellitus, proper regulation of the 
diet is by far the most important consideration. The patient should 
by all means consult a physician and obtain iilstructions from him. 
These few suggestions are simply as an aid in following out these 
instructions. 

After the body has once lost its power to care properly for 
starches and sugars, it never completely regains that powfer ; hence 
the patient must constantly observe caution in his diet and his 
habits of life. With proper care, many cases can live fairly com- 
fortably. If the carbohydrates are too much restricted, leaving 
proteins and fats as the chief constituents of the diet, a condition 

(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 243 



SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY ^ M^ 



of acidosis is likely to develop. To prevent this complication, and 
to build up the patient's tolerance for starches and sugars, is the 
aim of the dietitian. These patients should ayoid worry, fatigue, 
chilling, indulgence in forbidden foods. 

In this condition, the body is unable to oxidize, or burn up, the 
sugars properly. These accumulate in , the blood up to a certain 
point, and afterwards they are excreted in the urine. The presence 
of a high percentage of sugar in the tissues lowers the resistance 
to disease. The urine should be examined regularly, and the 
weight of the patient taken. 

In beginning treatment of these cases, their tolerance for starch 
and sugar is tested as follows: The individual is starved until the 
urine is sugar free; then foods low in carbohydrate, preferably 
■green vegetables, are given until sugar again appears. This is the 
point of tolerance, and the diet is arranged to contain carbohydrates 
within this limit, although the tolerance may often be increased in 
tirne. Anything a.bove this amount is poison to the body. 

It is well, in almost all cases, to plan for at least one "green 
day" each week. On these days, only the vegetables in the 5% 
list are served, with salad dressing, and perhaps an egg, black 
cereal coffee, lemonade, etc. As a sweetening agent, saccharine or 
sweetina or other similar preparations may be used. As they are 
products of coal tar, and very concentrated, great care must be 
taken not to use them too freely, or the digestion will be upset and 
the appetite spoiled. In some of the milder cases, it is permissitjje 
to allow a small amount of carbohydrate food, as bread, potato, 
oatmeal^ etc. ; while in others, it may be best to use breads prepared 
from gluten flour, soy bean meal, almond meal, etc. The attending 
physician's advice should be followed in each case. 

DIABETIC FOOD TABLE 

In order to determine the per cent of carbohydrate a patient 
is receiving, the foods are arranged into groups on the basis of 
the amount of carbohydrate they contain; and if it is desired to 
substitute one food for another, all that is necessary is to consult 
the food table. The following table' (minus a very small assort- 

* "Diabetic Manual," by Joslin, 

244 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



«■•«*■■■»«■>» 




SCIENCE 8^ FOOD and COOKERY 




ment of meat and fish included in the original), which has been 
used by well-known authorities on the subject, is most convenient. 

FOODS ARRANGED APPROXIMATELY ACCORDING TO CONTENT 
OF CARBOHYDRATE 

Vegetables (fresh ob canned) 



5 


per cenf^ 


10 per cent^ 


15 per cent 


20 per cent 


Lettuce 


Tomatoes 


String beans 


Green peas 


Potatoes 


Cucumbeis 


Brussels 


Pumpkin 


Artichokes 


Shell beans 


Spinach 


sprouts 


Turnip 


Parsnips 




Asparagus 


Water cress 


Kohl-rabi 


Lima beans. 




Bhubarb 


Sea kale 


Squash 


canned 


Boiled rice 


£iu}ive 


Okra 


Beets 




Boiled 


Marrow- 


Cauliflower 


Carrots 






Sorrel 


Eggplant 


Onions 






Sauerkraut 


Cabbage 


Green peas. 






Beet greens 


Radishes ' 


canned 






Dandelion 


Leeks 








greens 


String beans, 








Celery 


canned 








Mushrooms 


Broccoli 








Swiss chard 


Artichokes, 
canned 









Fruits 





Watermelon 


Raspberries 


Plums 


Ripe olives 


Strawberries 


Currants 


Bananas 


(20 per cent fat) 


Lemons 


Apricots 


Prunes 


Grapefruit 


Cranberries 


Pears 






Peaches 


. Apples 






Pineapple 


Huckleberries 






' Blackberries 


Blueberries 






Gooseberries 


Cherries 






Oranges 







Nuts 



Butternuts 
Pignolias 



Brazil nuts 
Black walnuts 
Hickory nuts 
Pecans 
Filberts 



Almonds 
Walnuts 

(English) 
Beechnuts 
Pistachios 
Pine nuts 



Peanuts 



UO per cent 
Chestnuts 



Other foods allowed are eggs, milk, cream, yogurt, buttermilk, 
cottage cheese, olive oil, salad oil, cereal coffee; bran bread made 
without flour; bread, sticks, and noodles, made with gluten flour; 
soy bean and almond meal; lemonade, plain, or sweetened with 
sugar substitute (coal tar preparations) ; and occasionally potato. 

2 Reckon the average carbohydrates in a mixture of vegetables of the 5 per cent 
group as 3 per cent; of tlie 10 per cent group as 6 per cent. 

(UjSB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 345 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



DIET IN NEPHRITIS 

In this condition, there is difficulty in getting rid of the waste 
products, especially the nitrogenous waste. We therefore seek to 
provide a diet that will not overburden the eliminative organs. In 
acute cases, a milk or milk and cereal water diet is indicated. As 
the symptoms subside, other bland foods may be constantly added. 
In chronic cases, the following list of foods may be useful : 



Milk soups 


Flakes 




Potato 


Milk gruels 


Tapioca 




Onion 


Buttermilk 


Junket 




Cauliflower 


Yogurt 


Macaroni 




Lettuce 


Cream 


Stale bread 




Spinach 


Malted milk 


Toast 




Celery 


Butter 


Crackers 




Water cress 


Olive oil 


All cereals well 


Vegetable gelatin 




cooked, 


except oats 


, 



DIET IN ANEMIA (Secondary) 

Ansernia may follow any prolonged illness, or hemorrhage, and 
may be present in many of the chronic diseases. In the ordinary 
case of secondary anaemia, the blood is deiicient in corpuscles, 
coloring matter, and other constituents. Because of the poor blood 
supplied, the digestive juices are weak and scant. Constipation 
often complicates, and should receive prompt attention, as the re- 
moval of waste products is especially iinportant. Plenty of fresh 
air, sunshine, and sleep- are very, essential factors. The following 
is a list of foods that are rich in mineral and blood-building 
elements. The foods given are especially rich in iron, and are 
arranged in order, beginning with those highest in this mineral. 

FOODS HIGH IN IRON 
(Compiled from Various Sources) 



Spinach 


Bran 


Lettuce 


Dandelion greens 


Beans, dried 


Carrots 


Swiss chard 


Peas, dried 


Beets 


Water cress 


Entire wheat 


Onions 


Tomato 


Almonds 


Bananas 


String beans 


Oatmeal 


Celery 


Cabbage 


Prunes, dried 


Potato 


Strawberries 


Raisins 


Apples 


Egg yolk 


Sweet corn 


Oranges 



246 



(USE LEVEL MEA8UKEMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




XXIII. 

FRUIT ICES, ICE CREAM, 

SHERBETS 



"Youth perpetual dwells in fountains, 
Not in flasks, and casks, and cellars." 



Fruit ices and ice cream are often recommended by physicians 
for particular cases. The following suggestions on the use of ices 
and ice cream, by a physician of long practical experience, will be 
a help to the nurse or the mother: 

"Fruit ice is a very useful article of food for those who are 
suffering with a gastritis where there is an absence of hydrochloric 
acid. It has the effect of reducing the inflammatory condition, and 
at the same time supplies the patient with nutrition. It is not a 
good plan to take fruit ice in connection with a large meal, as it 
lowers the temperature of the stomach, and the latter cannot per- 
form its functions until it has reached its normal temperature again. 

"Ice cream is a useful article of food for a person who is suf- 
fering with gastric ulcer and inflammation of the stpmach, due to 
excess of hydrochloric acid, as it is both nutritious and cooling to 
the stomach. 

"The combination of sugar and milk does not seem to do any 
particular damage under these conditions, for the large amount of 
hydrochloric acid seems to neutralize any evil effects. The ma- 
terials used should be of the best quality, for frequently we have, 
severe ptomaine poisoning from eating an inferior quality of 

ice cream." 

LEMON ICE 

J4 cup lemon juice I cup water 

Scant H cup sugar 

Boil the water and the sugar together for a few minutes, re- 
move from the fire, add the lemon juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 
Use about 3 parts of crushed ice to i part of salt, as too much salt 
makes a coarse-grained ice. The beaten white of an egg may be 
added after the ice is partly frozen, if desired, and then the freez- 
ing continued until the mixture is firm. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 247 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



GRAPEFRUIT ICE 

Yi cup grapefruit juice i cup water 

About Yi cup sugar 

Prepare and freeze the same as lemon ice. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

I box ripe strawberries Juice of i lemon 

Juice of I orange i cup sugar 

I cup water 

Wash and stem the strawberries, and crush in a bowl with the 
sugar. -Let stand i hour; then add the fruit juices and the water, 
and mix well. Strain and freeze the same as for lemon ice. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

Prepare the fruit and the juices the same as for strawberry ice, 
and put directly into the freezer without straining. Freeze until 
partly stiff; then add the white of an egg, or a^beaten whole egg, 
and continue to freeze until firm. 

ORANGE ICE 

I cup orange juice i cup sugar 

I egg 2 cups water 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Beat the egg slightly, add the rest of the ingredients, and freeze. 

APRICOT ICE 

I cup stewed apricot pulp J^ cup water * 

3 tablespoons lemon juice Sugar to taste 

Stew the apricots with enough sugar to sweeten. When cool, 
mash through a fine colander, add lemon juice and water, and 
freeze. A little additional sugar may be required. 

APRICOT SHERBET 

Double the proportions in the above recipe, and when partly 
frozen, add the white oif an egg, or a beaten whole egg, and con- 
tinue to freeze until firm. When in season, use fresh apricots,' 
pared, mashed fine, and sweetened to taste, in the place of the 
cooked fruit. 

248 (MS^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD ancT COOKERY 



PEACH SHERBET 

To 2 cups of peach pulp (preferably fresh) add the juice of, 2 
oranges and i Ipmon, i scant cup sugar, Yz cup water, and i egg 
white or a beaten whole egg. Mix, and freeze the same as for 
apricot sherbet. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

2 cups grape juice y^ cup sugar or honey 

3 tablespoons lemon juice i cup cream 

Blend the juices and the sugar or honey, and turn into the 
freezer. When partly frozen, add the cream, and continue freezing 
until firm, i slightly beaten egg may be used in the place of the 
cream, when cream is unobtainable. 

ICE CREAM No. 1 

r cup cream . i cup milk 

Yi teaspoon vanilla flavor 

Use a minimum of sugar or honey for sweetening, and freeze 
the same as for sherbet. 

ICE CREAM No. 2 

2 cups hot milk l egg 

I tablespoon flour A sprinkle of salt 

Vz cup sugar or honey 2 cups thin cream 

I teaspoon vanilla flavor 

Mix the sugar and the flour together, add a sprinkle of salt and 
the egg slightly beateia, and blend well. Add the hot milk gradu- 
ally, stirring as it is being added, and continue to stir over the fire 
until the egg is cooked, but do not boil. Remove from the fire, 
and let cool. Add the cold cream and the flavoring, strain, 
and freeze. 



(use; level MEASUKEMBNTS for all INQREDIENTB.) 2^9 




XXIV. PRINCIPLES OF CANNING AND 
PRESERVING 

"And nature does require her times of preservation, which perforce 
I . . . must give my tendance to." 

All kinds of fruit and most vegetables can be preserved in 
cans or in glass jars by methods easily applied in the home. Dur- 
ing the past few years, much experimental work has been carried 
on by worthy organizations and clubs, in an effort to perfect an 
all-round, satisfactory home-canning method, — one that is simple 
to understand, easy to follow, and does not require expensive 
equipment to make it successful. So far there are three methods 
being used, and the good points as well as the weak points in each 
become manifest as we study them. 

1. The hot-pack or open-kettle method, cooking in a kettle the 
foods to be canned, either in their own juice or in a sirup,' then 
sealing them in sterilized jars. This method is successful for acid 
fruits and acid vegetables, but will not do for non-acid products^ 
such as corn, peas, beans, etc. It is also difficult to retain the shape 
and color of the products canned in this way. • 

2. The three-day intermittent method has also been used in 
canning vegetables. It consists in packing the uncooked products 
in sterilized jars, filling the jars with water or sirup, putting the 
lids in place, placing the jars on a rack in a boiler, filling the boiler 
with water' to cover the tops of the jars, and letting the water boil 
around the jars for i hour. The jars are then set aside for, 24 
hours. The next day, they are placed back in the vessel, and 
cooked in boiUng water for i hour again. They are then set aside 
for 24 hours more, and the cooking is repeated the third day, 
which completes the process. The first boiling destroys the bac- 

250 ("^^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



I IIM ■■■■■■*»> 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



teria, but not the spores, or seeds. As soon as the jars cool, these 
spores germinate; and the boihng on the second day kills this crop 
of bacteria before they have had time to develop spores. Boiling 
on the third day is not always necessary, but is a prevention against 
possible growths. 

While the theory back of this method is absolutely correct, so 
far as the keeping qualities of the food are concerned, the three 
days' cooking is too much cooking for many foods, as it destroys 
both the color and the flavor. Moreover, it is a long and tedious 
work; and in the use of glass jars, the prolonged cooking weakens 
the seal. While the above method is a sure one, especially when 
sealed tins are used, the same results may be obtained by a inuch 
quicker method, and with keeping qualities fully as good. 

3. The cold-pack method seems to have overcome all the objec- 
tions in the foregoing methods, besides presenting new and tried 
theories. This method simply consists in packing uncooked foods 
in jars, then cooking them in the closed jars for a given length of 
time, figured out as best suited to each food. All foods do not 
need to be and should not be cooked the same length of time, and 
herein is where the cold-pack method is mo^t successful. Foods 
are sterilized, and their flavor and color best retained, when definite 
time-tables are followed, which have been developed after much 
experimenting. In carrying out the cold-pack method, the pro- 
cedure is made easy by observance of the following six steps : 

1. Preparation. — The materials are cleaned, pitted, peeled, or 
sliced, to make them more attractive, and to avoid preserving 
useless material. 

2. Blanching. — This means to parboil, or scEild a given length 
of tinie, which varies from i to 15 minutes, depending on the 
kind of product. For berries and soft fruits, the blanching is 
omitted. After washing the fruit or vegetables in cold water, as 
if to cook and serve, put into a cloth bag, and drop into boiling 
water for the required length of time, counting the time after 
boiling begins. ' 

3. Cold Dip. — Lift the bag of vegetables or fruit from the 
boiling water, and immediately plunge into cold water, lift, and 

(DSE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 2SI 




SCIENCE <f FOOD and COOKERY 



drain. This cold dip sets the color and shrinks the food after it 
has been in the boiling water. 

4. Packing. — The product is then immediately packed in hot 
jars. In the case of fruits, hot sirup or hot water is added. In 
the case of vegetables (except tomatoes), hot water is added, with 
salt in the proportion of i level teaspoon to each quart jar of food. 
The sterilized rubbers and tops are then put in place. If using the 
"composition sealing lid," secure with screw band, or clamp. If 
using screw top jars with rubber ring, seal only partially, using the 
thumb and the little finger only. This makes it possible for the 
steam 'gendered within the jar to escape, and prevents breakage. 

5. Hot-Water Bath.— In a vessel containing |boiling water in 
which the jars have been sterilized, a false bottom is placed. Upon 
this the jars are set to keep them from resting flat on the bottom 
of the boiler, and thus the water is allowed to circulate under them. 
Wooden laths, wire, or wire netting will answer the purpose. 

6. Processing. — : Place the jars on the rack in the boiler. Fill 
with warm water to cover the tops of the jars by at least i inch. 
This will prevent any liquid from being lost during the cooking, as 
it is likely to be if the water does not cover the tops of the jars, or 
if the covers are adjusted too loosely. The time is counted from 
the moment the water boils up well. As soon as the time is up, the 
water is lowered by dipping out a- portion, the jars are removed, 
and the covers are tightened. When using jars with sealing com- 
position tops, secure the lids with screw bands or clamps bef(ye 
putting them into the water ; and when the processing is completed, 
set the jars aside, and the cooling of the jars seals them. Jars 
with rubber rings and screw tops, being only partially sealed while 
in the water bath, are sealed tightly when removed from the boiling 
water, and inverted to test the seal. 

The following time-table for the blanching and sterilizing of 
some of the more common foods is adapted from the "Home 
Canning Manual," 1918, published by the National War Garden 
Commission, Washington, D. C. The time given for cooking is 
for quart jars. For pint jars, deduct 5 minutes. For 2-quart 
jars, add 30 minutes. The time given is also calculated for fresh, 

252 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



ft 



SCIENCE gf FOOD amT COOKERY 




.feound, and firm vegetables or fruit. For vegetables that have 
been gathered over 24 hours, increase the time of sterilization by 
adding one fifth. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BLANCHING AND STERILIZING 



Vegetables 

Sweet Corn 

Green Peas 

Lima Beans 

String Beans 

Okra 

Greens 

Pumpkin 

Tomatoes 

Fruits 

Apples 

Pears 

Quinces 

Apricots 

Peaches 

Plums 

Berries 

Fruits without sugar . . 



Blanchins 



Minutes 

5 to 10 
5 to ID 
S to 10 
5 to 10 
S to 10 

IS . 
See recipe 
to loosen 

the skins 



i'/4 

I/. 

I /a 

I to 2 



Hot-Water 



Minutes 

180 
180 
180 
120 
120 
120 
120 
22 



20 
20 
20 
16 
16 
16 
16 
30 



Water-Seal 



Minutes 

120 
120 
120 

90 

90 

90 

90 

18 



12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
20 



Steam Pressure in 
Pounds 



5 to 10 



Minutes 

90 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
IS 



8 
10 
10 
10 
10 
12 



10 to IB 



Minutes 

60 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
10 



VEGETABLES 

STRING BEANS No. 1 

Break, remove the strings, blanch, cold dip, drain, and pack into 
hot glass jars or tin cans. Add boiling water to fill the container, 
and I teaspoon salt to the quart jar. Adjust the rubber rings, and 
screw on the caps with the thumb and the little finger. Seal- tin 
cans completely. Cook for the length of time given above for the 
particular kind of cooker used. 

, Note. — With the addition of a little v/holesome acid, such as 
lemon juice, string beans may be canned much the same as fruit. 

(USE LEVEL MBASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 253 

17 



I I 




SCIENCE of FOOD (moT COOKERY 



An example is given in the following recipe . for string beans. 
Other vegetables may be canned in like manner (if the taste of 
acid is not objectionable), except corn, which requires half again 
as much lemon juice as do string beans. 

STRING BEANS No. 2 

Prepare the string beans as in the preceding recipe. Add boil- 
ing water in a saucepan barely to cover the beans, with salt to 
taste. Cover (except the cover must be drawn to one .side far 
enough to allow the steam to escape), and let boil continuously for 
30 or 35 minutes. Lift a glass jar out of boiling water, and put 
on a hot scalded rubber ring. Into each quart jar put 2 tablespoons 
lemon juice, and fill the jar with boiling beans. Add enough of 
the boiling liquid to overflow the jar; then screw the cap on tightly, 
invert, and let cool. 

SWEET CORN 

Remove the husk and the silk, blanch, dip, drain, and cut from 
the cob. Pack immediately into jars or tin cans, to within 3^ inch 
of 'the top. Add a teaspoon of salt, to the quart, and fill with 
boiling water. Put on the rubber rings, and screw the caps on 
with the thumb and the little finger. (Seal tin cans completely.) 
Cook for the length of time given in _ the table, for the particular 
kind of cooker used. 

PUMPKIN, WINTER SQUASH, ETC. 

Break open, and remove the seeds and the stringy fiber. Peel, 
cut into small pieces, and boil until thick. Pack into jars, and 
sterilize for the length of time given for the particular kind of 
cooker used. 

TOMATOES 

Blanch, dip, drain, and remove the skins and the hard part 
near the stem end. Cut into halves or quarters, and pack into jars 
or tin cans, with a teaspoon of salt to each quart. Put on rubber 
rings, and adjust the caps the same as for corn. (Seal tin cans 
completely.) Cook for the length of time given for the particular 
kind of cooker used. 

254 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD <md COOKERY 



TOMATOES (Hot Pack) 

Prepare the tomatoes the same as in the preceding recipe, and 
place in an open kettle. Bring gradually to the boiling point, 
and let simmer until thoroughly cooked through. Have the jars and 
the caps sterilized. Lift them one at a time out of boiling water, 
adjust the rubber, and fill with boiling tomato. Put on the cap, and 
screw down tightly, being careful not to touch the inner part of 
jar, rubber, or jar cap with the fingers in handling. Invert and 
let cool. 

PRESERVATION IN SALT 

• Vegetables can be preserved more cheaply than in cans or jars, 
and more simply for household use than by drying. The method 
makes use of the preservative qualities of salt. The following 
formula is given out by the Division of Viticulture, College of 
Agriculture, Berkeley, California: 

"The vegetables are first washed and sliced. Weigh them, and 
take I pound of salt for each 2 pounds of prepared vegetables. A 
layer of salt is first placed on the bottom of the crock or barrel, 
and then a layer of vegetables. Similar layers are alternated until 
the vessel is full, finishing with a layer of salt. A wooden cover 
is then applied, and weighted with .a stone or similar object that 
will not be acted upon by the brine. After a few days, there will 
be a considerable shrinkage in volume, and the vessel can be filled 
with more layers, and weighted as before. These methods are 
suitable for most root vegetables, string beans, cabbage, and cu- 
cumbers. The large quantities of salt used in these methods must 
be removed by soaking before the vegetables can be eaten." 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS 

(Water-Glass Method) 
Eggs may be kept from 8 to 10 months, at small expense, by 
the use of water glass ; and a little timely effort in this respect may 
prove of great value when the price of eggs is prohibitive. For 
success in preserving eggs by water glass, a little caution on the 
following points is positively necessary: 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMBN'A FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 255 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



The eggs must be absolutely fresh, preferably not more than 
2 days old. (Infertile eggs are the best.) The shells must be 
clean, and free from the smallest crack. Clean crocks are the best 
containers, and preferably not over 2 or 3 gallons for family use, 
as the eggs at the bottom of a large crock are liable to crack, and 
they will be used last. 

Water glass is a pale, yellow, odorless, sirupy liquid, and is 
known to the chemist as silicate. Use i part silicate to 9 parts 
water distilled, or boiled and cooled. Mix well. Fill the crock 
half full of the liquid, and place the eggs in it' carefully, so as to 
avoid cracking the shells. The eggs may be added a few at a time, 
if desired, until the container is about full. The' liquid should 
extend constantly 2 inches above the eggs in the container. Cover 
the crock, and set in a cool, dark place. If the liquid evaporates, 
it should be replaced with boiled and cooled water. 

For use, rinse in cold water, and use immediately. For boiling 
purposes, they are good for at least 6 months, a-nd should. first have 
a tiny hole pricked in the large end, to obviate cracking, as the 
pores of the shell are sealed tight from the silicate. After 7 
months, the white becomes thinner, and the yolk membrane more 
delicate.' Nevertheless they are good for cakes, custards, scrambled 
eggs, and for cooking purposes generally, up to 10 or 12 months. 

FRUITS 

Fruits are usually slightly acid, and in general, do not support 
bacterial growth. Thus canned fruits are more commonly fer- 
mented by yeasts, if improperly sterilized. The yeast plant is 
destroyed by heat at less than boiling temperature; hence the 
destruction of bacteria may be left out of consideration in the- 
canning of fruits. 

Fruit should not be subjected to long cooking, but should be 
cooked only long enough to insure its preservation. A large quan- 
tity of sugar spoils the flavor of the fruit, and is likely to make it 
less easily digested. 

2^6 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL IKGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD amf COOKERY 



SELECTION OF FRUIT 

The selection of fruit is one of the first steps toward successful 
canning. The flavor is not developed until the fruit is fully ripe; 
but the fruit is at its best for canning and for jelly making just 
before it is perfectly ripe. In all the soft fruits, the fermentative 
stage follows closely upon the perfectly ripe stage. Therefore 
underripe fruit is better than overripe, for caiining purposes. This 
is especially important in jelly making, for the reason that in the 
overripe fruit, the pectin begins to lose its jelly-making quality. 
The fruit should be carefully sorted; perfectly ripe fruit and 
unripe fruit should not be cooked in the same jar. 

SIRUPS 

The quantity of sugar that should be used will vary with the 
kind of fruit, and somewhat with the locality in which it is grown. 
The following may be taken as an average ; more or less sugar 
may be used as the case, may require. 

Apricots, 2 to 2j/^ quarts water to I quart sugar 

Peaches, 2j4 to 3 quarts water to I quart sugar 

Pears, 3 to 4 quarts water to , i quart sugar 

Plums, I to ij/^ quarts water to i quart sugar , 

STERILIZING THE FRUIT 

Prepare the fruit by paring and coring, and blanching such 
fruits as require blanching, and pack in hot glass jars. Fill with 
hot sirup, care being exercised so as not to break the jars. Put 
on the scalded rubber rings, and screw the tops on with the thumb 
and the little finger. Set the jars on. the false bottom of the boiler 
(water bath), and add water about the same temperature as the 
jars, to cover them about I inch. Bring gradually to a boil, and 
cook ior the length of time given in the table, for the particular 
kind of cooker used. 

Let soft fruits that have not been blanched before being packed 
into the jars, stand for half an hour, after being filled with hot 
sirup, before cooking, in order that the fruit may absorb water, 
and they will not break down so easily in the cooking, but will- 
more nearly resemble fresh fruitl 

(USE tEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 25/ 



SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 




ABOUT BERRIES 

Berries are a very delicate fruit, and break down very easily 
when canned by the cold-pack method, and because of this, are 
generally cooked in the open kettle. For each quart of berries, use 
I cup of granulated sugar. Put a layer of berries into a granite 
dish, sprinkle with sugar, cover with another layer of berries, and 
so on. If extra juice is desired on the fruit, a little water may be 
added. Let the berries and sugar stand in a cool place for several 
hours; then drain off the juice, and bring to a boil. Pour in the 
berries carefully, and shake the dish once in a while to keep the 
fruit heating evenly. As soon as it comes to a good boil, draw 
the saucepan to the edge of the stove, and dip into hot jars with a 
handled cup. Put the covers on quickly, and screw them on tight. ' 
Lay the jars on the side, and turn t'hem once in a while during the 
cooling; and when they are cold, and set upright, the berries will 
be evenly distributed through the jar. 

CANNING FRUIT WITHOUT SUGAR 

Fruit of any kind suitable for canning may be preserved with- 
out sugar. The sugar can be added when the fruit is used, exactly 
as is done with fresh fruit.- If the fruit when canned is thoroughly 
ripe, it may be eaten , without any additional sugar, and is sweet 
enough for many tastes. The riper the fruit, provided it is sound, 
the more sugar, flavor, and nutriment it contains. 

Ripe fruits are excellent for making butters. About i cupiul 
of sugar to 12 cupfuls of fruit pulp should be used if sweet butter 
is desired; but the following recipe, if followed, will give a butter 
which has a sweetness and flavor that are greatly relished, without 
the use of sugar. 

APRICOT BUTTER 

Select overripe fruit, the riper the better, provided it is good. 
Wash and pit. Put through a colander, rejecting the skins. D.o 
not heat the fruit in the skins, as that extracts a strong acid flavor. 
Cook the pulp down to the desired stiffness, adding neither water 
nor sugar. Pour into glass jars, with rubbers on, and screw the 
covers down tight. Place on the false bottom of a water bath, and 
into the boiler pour water the same temperature as the fruit, until 

258 (USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOB ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



it reaches about two thirds the height of the jars. Cook for 20 
minutes after boiling begins. This last boiling is to make sure that 
the sterilization of the fruit is complete, and thus insure its keeping 
qualities. Remove the cover from the boiler, tighten the covers 
again, invert, and let cool. 

JELLY MAKING 

Because of the concentration of a large amount of cane sugar 
in jelly, it is unwholesome, and should be used sparingly, if at all. 
Most women, however, desire to put up a few glasses of jelly to 
have on hand for special purposes, and a few recipes will be given 
for the kinds most commonly used. The fruit juice can be put up 
in glass jars, the same as canned fruit, if desired, and the jelly 
made as needed. 

Large fruits, such as apples, should yield about 3 quarts of 
strained juice from 8 quarts of fruit and 4 quarts of water. *Jiiicy 
plums will require only 3 or 3J'2 quarts of wafer to 8 quarts of 
fruit. Add the water to the fruit, and simmer slowly until done. 
Then hang up in a bag to drip. The time of boiling the juice after 
adding the sugar will depend on the concentration of the fruit 
juice, the proportion of sugar, and the pectin, and, in all proba^ 
bility, the degree of acidity. The two principal causes of failure 
in jelly making are : first, the common practice of adding too much 
sugar; second, the diflfering composition of fruit juices. 

In a dry time, the juice in fruit is not very abundant, and the 
percentage of sugar is high. On the other hand, if fruit is picked 
after a rain, the amount of water in the juice is increased. As a 
result, the fruit from the very same tree yields juice with less sugar 
after a rain. These facts will explain why the amount of sugar 
that must be added to make the juice "jell" varies at different times. 

PLUM JELLY 

If the juice is very much diluted, it should be boiled before the 
sugar is added, to concentrate it, so that the cooking after the 
sugar is added will not be too long. To each quart of juice, add i 
quart of sugar, bring to a boil, skim, and let boil gently until, when 
a spoon is dipped into the jelly and lifted, it is coated. with jelly. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) gjQ 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 



Then pour into hot glasses, and set away until cool. Another test 
used, perhaps more frequently, is the' cooling test. Drop a tea- 
spoonful of the jelly into a saucer, set in a cool place, and stop the 
boiling of the jelly until you determine whether the mixture will 
set. As soon as the jelly is hardened, pour ■ a thin coat of hot 
paraffin over the top of each glass, and^it is ready to store. 

CURRANT JELLY 

Select currants that are not too ripe. Wash them, but do nbt 
stem. Drain well. Mash a small quantity at a time in a stone 
crock, with a potato masher, and squeeze through cloth. Then 
strain the juice again without squeezing, so that the liquid may be 
clear. Put the liquid on the fire, in a porcelain-lined kettle, and 
bring to a boil. Heat the sugar in the oven separately; and when 
the juice has boiled from 15 to 20 minutes, stir in the hot sugar, 
quart »for quart, and continue stirring until it is dissolved. Bring 
to a boil, skim, and let boil 2 minutes. Take glasses out of hot 
water, fill them with the boiling liquid, and set away until jellied. 
Then cover with paraffin, as usual. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

I quart cranberries I pint water 

I. pint sugar 

Pick berries over, wa^h, and drain welf. Add i pint water to 
the berries, and let boil 8 minutes after boiling begins. _ Mash 
through a colander, add sugar, and bring to a boil. Skim, and let 
boil gently for 4 minutes. Then pour into hot glasses or jars. 
When set, pour hot paraffin over the top of each glass. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

I quart cranberries 3 cups water 

i^ cups siigar 

Pick over the berries carefully, wash, and drain. Bring the 
water and sugar to a boil, add the berries, and let boil slowly for 
15 minutes; then set aside to cool. 



260 ("SB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOBEDIENTS. ) 




XXV. 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 



"Diet cures ttiair than doctors.'' 



BUTTER SUBSTITUTES 

The great increase in tuberculosis in cattle, together with the 
continued rise in the price of all classes of fpodstufiEs, has created 
a desire for some substitute for dairy butter which will b^ less 
expensive, yet wholesome and appetizing.. There are various com- 
mercial brands of vegetable butter now on the market, put up in 
convenient form, and used by many, both for table use and also 
for cooking purposes/ When such cannot be obtained, the follow- 
ing preparations may be used with good results. For use in the 
recipes throughout this book, dairy butter may be substituted in 
the place of vegetable butter, when preferred, the same proportion 
being used as of the vegetable butter. 

Emulsified Vegetable Oil 

Secure a high grade of cottonseed or corn oil. Beat i egg 
slightly, and add the oil, a few drops to begin with, beating con- 
stantly and increasing the oil gradually. Add 2 teaspoons of lemon 
juice, then more oil, until 3 cups of oil have been used, and the 
mixture is smooth and quite thick. Salt to taste, put into a well 
covered crock, and use the same as dairy butter. 

Vegetable Butter 

Take any good brand of solid vegetable fat, such as a gQod 
coconut product, or hydrogenated vegetable fat. 

a. Scrape well colored carrots, and press out the juice through 
'a cheesecloth. Put the vegetable fat into a bowl, add salt to taste. 



'The mention of » proprietary substance in a recipe must not be taken as a guai^ 
antee by the authors. Our knowledge of the manufacture of these fats is necessarily 
limited ; but we have reason to believe they are wholesome, and contain no animal fat. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS rOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 26l 




SCIENCE qf FOOD and COOKERY 



and work in enough of the carrot juice to give the color of dairy 
butter. Cool, mold on a dish, and use the same as dairy butter. 
The carrot juice imparts a good flavor, and is rich in vitamine 
constituents. 

h. To iJ/2 cups of solid vegetable fat, add 3 tablespoons cream 
or canned milk, and work into the fat. Add salt to taste, 2 or 3 
tablespoons lemon juice, and vegetable butter color to give the 
color of dairy buttei-. Work with a spoon until well blended, cool, 
and use the same as dairy butter. 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

Experiments made by the Bureau of Animal Industry {Refer- 
ence — M-2. 212. 9); United States Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C, have shown that the tubercle bacilli and the 
bacilli of typhoid were killed when milk in which either of 
these organisms had been placed experimentally was kept at a 
temperature of 140° F. (60° C.) for 20 minutes; also that heating 
milk to 185° F. in the so-called "flash" Pasteurizing apparatus, and 
then cooling it, serves to destroy any tubercle bacilli that may 
be present. 

Method. — Place a rack or a piece of thick wire netting in the 
bottom of a pail or a large saucepan. Arrange the bottles of milk 
on the rack. Wipe the mouths and caps of the bottles with a wet 
cloth, but do not remove the caps. Make an opening in the cap of 
one of them, large enough to insert a thermometer, which must be 
previously sterilized. Surround the bottles with cold water until 
the water reaches nearly to the top of the bottles. Place over the 
fire, and bring quickly to the temperature of 150° F., as indicated 
by the thermometer within the bottle. Remove from the saucepan, 
cover with a cloth, and let stand on the table for 20 minutes, after ' 
which cool gradually by setting the bottles into warm water, then 
coder, and lastly cold water. Set on ice if it is available, and do 
not remove the caps until the milk is needed. 

BUTTERMILK 

The therapeutic value of buttermilk is well known to the 
medical profession. People who suffer of such diseases as acute 

262 (USE LEVEI, MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



U: 



SCIENCE of FOOD ant^ COOKERY 



diarrhea, gastritis, and intestinal diseases, during the hot season, 
often find the use of sour milk one of the best means of combating 
the trouble. The claim put forth is that many of the putrefactive 
germs of the large intestine are gradually replaced by the harmless 
lactic acid germs. In the making of buttermilk from acid-forming 
ferments, the procedure is much the same in each case. The milk 
is first boiled, in order to destroy the other germs that are always 
found in milk; then the milk is kept at a temperature favorable to 
the growth of these beneficent germs, varying somewhat with each 
kind of ferment. 

YOGURT 

Yogurt tablets contain the bacillus Bulgaricus, which grows 
actively in milk at the temperature of the human body, but grows 
much more rapidly at a terriperature of about 115° F. Yogurt 
tablets, like other lactic acid-forming ferments, contain the active 
ferment in a latent form; thus it takes a number of hours for 
them to develop actively. For rapid growth, it is necessary that 
"the temperature of the milk should be maintained at about 115°. 
At a lower temperature, the bacillus Bulgaricus grows more 
slowly; and below 98°, it ceases to grow. 

Many fail in their attempts to make yogurt buttermilk, because 
of their ignorance of the fact that this milk ferment requires a 
much higher temperature for growth than do other milk-souring 
ferments. Success in making yogurt depends largely on observing 
these few points: 

Starter. — Heat i cup of milk to the boiling point in a double 
boiler, and keep at that temperature for about 10 minutes; then 
set in a pan of cold water, and cool to about 115°. Dissolve 2 
yogurt tablets in a little milk, and add to the warm milk. Mix,^ 
cover, and s^t on the top of a boiler of hot water, wrapped in a 
cloth so as to keep the tempefature of the mixture as nearly imi- 
form as possible. Renew the hot water in the boiler every hour or 
so, until the milk begins to coagulate, which will require all the 
way from 8 to 12 hours. Then set in a cold place; and in 12 
hours, you have your starter. 

(USB LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INaREDIENTS. ) 263 




SCIENCE afi FOOD and COOKERY 



Yogurt. — Sterilize a quart of milk, and cool to about iio° to 
115° F. Add ^ cup of the starter to begin with, first having 
beaten it with a whip to make it smooth. Mix, and set in a warm 
place, the same as for the starter, for about 5 to 8 hours, or until 
it coagulates; then put in a cold place. Beat with an egg whip 
before serving. The starter is not good to drink, and need not be 
kept after the first batch of yogurt is made ; but reserve a portion 
of this batch as starter for the next. Use less and less of the 
starter as it grows older, until a quart of milk can be soured with 
2 teaspoons of yogurt starter. If the buttermilk tastes too acid, or 
if it is covered 'with a thin whey, use less of the starter. Just so 
it coagulates, that is the main objective. Use as little of the starter 
as possible to accomplish that purpose. , 

LACTOSA 

Lactosa may be made successfully with less warming than 
yogurt ; and for this reason, it is preferred^ by some. It may be 
made by adding i tablet to a gallon of scalded and warm milk, and 
letting it stand in a warm place for from 10 to'20 hours, until it- 
coagulates; or make the same as yogurt, using about the same 
amount of starter for the same amount of milk, and simply wrap 
in a cloth until coagulated, which will require from 8 to 12 hours 
if not kept warm throughout. 

COTTAGE CHEESE No. 1 

Set a dish containing yogurt or lactosa in a pan of hot water, 
cover, and heat until the milk forms into a curd ; then set on a table 
and let cool. Pour into cheesecloth and hang up to drain. Rub 
smooth with a little Pasteurized cream, yogurt, or canned milk, and 
a little salt, and serve. 

COTTAGE CHEESE No. 2 

Pour boiling water into clabbered milk until whey forms. Let 
cool 15 minutes or longer; then strain as usual. 

NOODLES 

I egg About V/i, cups white flour 

I tablespoon milk A few grains of salt 

264 (VSE LEVEL UEASUBEMBNTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



Beat the egg slightly with a fork. Add the milk, a sprinkle 
of salt, and flour sufficient to make a dough that will not stick to 
the board. Divide in 2 pieces, and roll out to the thickness of 
paper, having the board and the dough well floured while rolling 
out. Let dry for a few minutes; then cut in strips Ij4 inches 
wide, pile in tiers, and cut crosswise into fine shreds with a sharp 
knife. These will keep well if properly dried after shredding; 
BROWNED FLOUR 
Sift white flour into a baking pan, put, into a good oven, and 
bake to a nice brown, stirring often,- so that it may be uniform in 
color and not scorched. Sift again, and keep' for use as needed. 
CREAM ROAST FLOUR 
.Sift flour into a baking pan, about 2 inches deep. Put into a 
moderate oven, and stir often until lightly toasted, but not browned 
at all. Sift again, and keep for use as needed. 
BREAD CROUTONS 
Trim the outer crust from stale, bread. Cut into J^-inch cubes. 
Bake in an oiled baking pan, stirring often, until a light brown all 
the way through. For soup croutons, cut the bread into J^-inch 
cubes, and bake the same as above. 

HOMEMADE CEREAL COFFEE 
Yi cup corn meal Yz cup molasses 

2 cups bran J4 cup boiling water 

Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl. Add the hot water to the 
molasses, and mix well. Pour the wetting on the grain, rub be- 
tween the hands, and mix thoroughly. Put into a baking pan, and 
bake in a good oven until well burned, stirring often, so that the 
color may be uniform and almost black. 

FAVORITE SOY BEAN COFFEE 

Put a layer of soy beans (preferably, the yellow kind) into a 
shallow baking pan, and roast in a medium oven until when a 
kernel is broken open, it is the color of ordinary roasted coffee. 
Remove from the oven, grind through a food mill set quite fine, and 
use in the same manner as ordinary coffee. Add boiling water, 
bring to a boil, and let stand on the edge of the stove under cover 
for lo minutes ; then strain. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INOREDIENTS. ) 265 



SCIENCE <f FOOD and COOKERY 



-^ 



SOUP ROYALE 

Separate 2 eggs, and add 2 tablespoons of milk. to the whites, 
and the same amount to the yolks. Beat only slightly with a silver 
fork, to mix ingredients thoroughly, adding a sprinkle of salt to 
each. Oil 2 small cups or molds, and have the bottoms lined with 
a piece of paper. Pour into the separate molds, set in a pan of 
water, and poach in the oven until set; then remove, and set in cold 
water to cool. Cut in diamond shapes or dice, and use as garniture 
for any clear soup or broth. 

NUT AND FRUIT BARS 

ij^ cujjs dried figs or seeded ^ cup ground walnuts 

raisins, or both Vz cup gluten meal or cracker crumbs 

Wash' the figs, place on a baking sheet, and put into the oven 
until hot through; then remove. Grind the nuts through the mill 
first, then the fruit. Mix with the cereal, and grind all together 
twice; then roll out J/2 inch thick, and cut into small squares. 

GRAND CEREAL 

2 cups pastry jflour J4 cup corn meal 

^ cup rolled oats Large J4 cup wal;er_ 

J4 teaspoon salt 

Mix all the dry ingredients. Add the water slowly, stirring 
constantly through the flour, so as to avoid getting any particles of 
flour too wet, and mix to a stiff dough. Work on the board for a 
few moments; then roll out J4 inch thick, cut into strips, lay in 
a baking pan, prick with a fork, and bake to a light brown colol. 
When cold, grind through a food chopper, using a coarse knife. 

POP CORN BALLS 

I tablespoon vegetable butter J^ cup sugar 
y^ cup molasses ^ 2 quarts freshly popped corn 

. A sprinkle of salt 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the molasses, and the sugar, 
and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let boil gently until when a 
little is dropped into cold water, it becomes brittle. Pour imme- 
diately over the slightly salted pop corn, folding the corn over and 
over as it is being added. Butter the fingers, and shape at once 
into balls. A few chopped walnuts added to the corn improve it. 

266 (\SS^ LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




The following is a list of dishes that are suitable for preparing 
the day before they are to be served, and reheating, browning, or 
baking, as the case may be, such as "Sabbath dinner," picnic din- 
ner, etc. In all the following dishes, the food is prepared, cooked, 
and seasoned the day before it is used; and in the case of most of 
them that require a sauce or gravy, they are mixed, ready fop- 
warming in the oven or over the open fire. 



BREAKFAST CEREALS, TOASTS, ETC.— Page 216 



SOUPS— Page 122 



Vegetable broth, 124 
Potato with dumplings, 124 
Vegetable chowder, 124 
Noodle, 126 
Cream of tomato, 130 
Fruit soup, 131 



Puree of brown beans, 126 
Puree of lentils, 126 
Tomato bisque, 127 
Cream of Lima bean, 128 
Cream of peas, 129 
Cream of corn, 130 



ENTREES — Page 132 



Savory hash, 134 
Lentil and potato hash, 135 
Nut and potato pie, 135 
Favorite lentil patties, 141 
Rice and nut patties, 141 
Bean and potato pie, 142 
Bean and macaroni pie, I43 
Lentil and rice loaf, 147 
Macaroni family style, 143 
Vegetable loaf en aspic, 151 
Baked garbanzos, 156 



Potato and noodle stew, 138 
Lentil and potato stew, 138 
Bean and macaroni stew, 141 
Macaroni au gratin,, 144 
Macaroni egg sauce, 144 
Noodles au gratin, 145 
Spaghetti in tomato, 148 
Spaghetti and cornlet, 149 
Corn tamale, 152 
Eggplant saute, family style, 142 
Stewed Lima beans, 154 



(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



267 




SCIENCE g^ FOOD and COOKERY 




VEGETABLES — Page 161 



Stewed tomato, 163 

Breaded tomato, 163 

Stewed corn, 164 

Corn with bell peppers, 164 

Spinach, 167 

Greens, 168 

Green peas, 162 

Stewed Okra with tomato, 173^ 

Creamed potato, 177 



Summer squash, 169 
Winter squash, 170 
Green Lima beans, 171 
Succotash, 171 
Italian beets, 167 
Cauliflower au gratin, 173 
Warmed mashed potato, 175 
Mashed potato cakes, 176 



SALADS — Page 178 



Lettuce and tomato, 181 
Combination salad No. i, 
Cucumber au natural, 182 
Potato salad, 184 
Beet and potato, 184 
Beets in lemon, 187 
Beet and egg, 185 
Italian salad, 184 



Fruit salad, 187 
i8i Fruits and nuts, 188 

Prune and pecan nut, 188 
Raisin salad, 189 
Macaroni salad, 185 
Macaroni and olive, 185 
Egg salad, 185 
Nut and celery, 183 



DESSERTS — Page 190 



Graham fruit pudding, 192 
Fruit tapioca, 193 
Lemon snow, 194 
Orange cream pudding, 197 
Pressed fruit, 197 
Prune pudding, 197 
Sago fruit mold, 198 
Fruit gelatin, 201 
Pies, 202 



Bread custard, 19S 
Cream rice, 195 
Crumb custard, 196 
Cream tapioca, 193 
Oatmeal pudding, 195 
Baked custard, 199 

•Cream puffs, 200 
Cakes, 207 

.Cookies, 207 



WHEAT FLOUR AND SUGAR SUBSTITUTES 
Measurements of Substitutes Equal to One Cup of Wheat Flour 



These weights and measures were tested in the Experimental 
Kitchen of the United States Food Administration Home Conser- 
vation Division, and of the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Office of Home Economics.' 



> Bulletin California State Board of Health, June, 1918. 

2^8 (USE LEVEL MBASUREMBNTS FOB ALL INOaEDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE gf FOOD ancf COOKERY 



In substituting for one cup of wheat flour, use the following 
measurements. Each is equal in weight to a cup of flour ; thus, for 
each cup of wheat flour, use the amount of substitute given in 
the table. 

Barley ij^ cups Potato Flour J4 cup 

Buckwheat }i cup Rice Flour % cup 

Corn Flour scant i cup Rolled Oats i54 cups 

Corn Meal (coarse) % cup Rolled Oats (ground in food 

• Corn Meal (fine) scant i cup chopper) ij^ cups 

Cornstarch ^ cup Soy Bean Flour % cup 

Sweet Potato Flour i}i cups 

SUBSTITUTE COMBINATIONS 

Better results are obtained by the use of two substitutes to- 
gether, than by the use of one alone. Some good combinations are: 

Rolled oats (ground) and corn flour Buckwheat flour and potato flour 
Barley flour and rice flour Soy bean flotir and corn meal 

Peanut floUr and sweet potato flour 

SUGAR SUBSTITUTES 

As substitutes for sugar for cooking purposes, corn sirup, 
molasses, glucose, maple sugar and sirup, and also honey come in 
for their share of usefulness. The question arises in the mind of 
many a housewife as to how much of these diluted sugars should 
be substituted in pustomary recipes. For this reason, the following 
facts may be of interest. 

Corn sirup and maple sirup are not so sweet as sugar, and 
when used .to replace it, should be increased from one half to two 
thirds. For instance, if a recipe calls for i cup of sugar, use as 
substitute ij4 to i^ cups of sirup. In this case, allowance must 
be made for the increase in liquid. Every cup of sirup furnishes 
J4 cup of liquid; therefore for every cup of sirup that is substi- 
tuted for sugar, reduce the original amount of liquid in the recipe 
% cup. Unless such allowance is made for the liquid that the 
sirup adds, an extra amount of flour is needed to obtain the neces- 
sary thickness to the batter, and a poor product is likely to result. 

In using molasses and brown sugar, no change need be made 
so far as amounts for sweetening purposes are concerned,^ because 

(use level measubements for all ingredients.) 26g. 

18 





SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



what these lack in sweetness is largely made up in flavor. How- 
ever, the same allowance must be made for the liquid as when 
sirup is used. Glucose is best when used with part sugar, say Yz 
sugar to Yz glucose by measure. When used thus, it is suitable 
for canning purposes, also for the making of sauces, etc. 

Honey, one of the most staple sweetenings in the world, and 
probably the longest used, has not been in very common use for 
cooking purposes. Its sweetening power is about the same as that 
of sugar, and it should be used in the same proportion as white 
sugar, except that one fourth less of liquid should be used in a 
recipe with honey than with sugar. Honey is best adapted for 
table use; and for this purpose, it had better replace white sugar 
entirely. 




270 



(use level measurements fob all ingredients.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and^ COOKERY 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 









^^?t-c.*^>u/ 



^^^^^^-^fei^ 



(use level measukemekts for all ingredients.) 



271 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 




ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



272 



(USB [.EVGL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 




SCIENCE of FOOD and COOKERY 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 




(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



273 



INDEX 



"Finding the where of the what." 



Acids and starches .'. . . y^ 

Adaptation of food 93 

Agar-agar 201 

Albumenized milk 233 

Albumenized water 233 

Anamia (secondary) 246 

Apple dumpling, baked 207 

pie 203 

snow 193 

Apricot butter 258 

Apricots, stewed dried 192 

Artichokes 173 

Artificial stimulants 82 

Asparagus, new 163 

with peas 163 

Backbone of the meal 87 

Baked dressing 133, 134 

Baking powder 1 1 1 

Balancing the food S3 

Banana, baked 235 

cream pie 205 

rice 220 

Barley, pearl 220 

water 23-1 

Bean and macaroni pie 143 

and macaroni stew 141 

and potato pie 142 

frijoles with rice 146 

loaf, ribbon ISS 

patties 155 

puree, browned 154 

puree of brown 126 

Beans, brown, with mint sauce . . 156 

Lima, baked 154 

Lima, green 171 

Lima, stewed 154 

soy, and rice loaf 156 

soy, and rice patties 156 

soy, stewed ; . . 156 

string 162 

with dumplings 143 

with noodles • 142 

Beets, see Vegetables 

Beriberi 16 

Blancmange 196 

Blood-building foods 246 

Body-regulating substances .... 15 

Body's internal defenses 31 

Bran ig 

biscuit 106 

274 



Bran-fruit puffs US 

Bran tea 232 

Brazil nut sauce iS9 

Bread 98 

Bread, batter 113 

aerated oatmeal gems 114 

aerated wheat gems 114 

bran-fruit puffs 115 

corn bread 115 

corn cake 1 16 

corn dodgers 116 

corn meal puffs 113 

diabetic puffs lis 

hot cakes 117 

johnnycake 1 16 

pancakes, sodaless ,117 

pop-overs 114 

raisin puffs .114 

wheat gems 113 

wheat puffs 113 

Bread croutons 26s 

custard pudciing . . . .' 195 

Bread, fermented 105 

bran biscuit 106 

corn bread, raised 108 

diabetic bread no 

entire wheat 13, 33, 3s, 87, los 

fruit bread 106 

gluten biscuit . . . . r-. no 

Graham bread 106 

Graham buns 107 

Parker house rolls '. . 108 

quick method 109 

rye bread 107 

shortcake 109 

steamed brown bread 109 

zwieback . •. in 

Bread making, principles of .... 100 

Bread, unfermented in 

Bread, unfermented dough ..... 117 

buckwheat sticks 120 

buckwheat' wafers 120 

communion bread 121 

corn meal crisps 120 

cream rolls 118 

date rolls 119 

entire wheat biscuit ; . . 118 

entire wheat rolls 118 

favorite wheat biscuit 119 

fruit crispy iig 

rye sticky, 120 



INDEX 



rye wafers 120 

walnut sticks 119 

wheat sticks 117 

Bread, white and entire wheat . . "SS" 

Broth, vegetable 124 

special 232 

Brussels sprouts 174 

Building and repair foods 12 

Buttermilk 262 

Butter substitutes 261 

vegetable 261 

Cabbage, see Vegetables 

Cakes 207 

Cake, cup, Mr. Hook's 210 

-' fruit, Mr. Hook's 211 

jelly roll 209 

' layer 208 

loaf 208 

pound, favorite 211 

shortcake 109 

White Mountain 209 

Calcium in food 33 

Calories 26, 53, 90 

Cancer 48 

diet in 240 

Canning and preserving 250 

fruit ...'. 256 

preservation in salt , . . . 255 

preservation of eggs (water 

glass) 25s 

time-table for sterilizing 253 

' vegetables 253 

without sugar 258 

Caramel icing 213 

Carrots, see Vegetables 

Cellulose IS, 34 

Cereal coffee, homemade 265 

fillets 150 

Cereals, breakfast 218 

corn meal mush 219 

cracked wheat 219 

Graham fruit mush 220 

grano cereal with dates 221 

pearl barley, steamed 220 

rice, banana 220 

rice, browned 220 

rice, creamed 220 

rice, natural, steamed 219 . 

rice, white 220 

rolled oats 219 

wheat, steamed 220 

Cheese, cottage 264 

Chick peas, see Garbanzos 

Classification,' table of food .... 86 



Coffee and tea 83 

favorite soy bean 265 

homemade cereal 265 

Colitis, diet in 241 

Combinations of food ; . . 72 

Communion bread ". 121 

Comparative food values ....... 59. 

Constipation 34 

diet in 241 

Cookery and-food preparation . . 61 

^ for the"sick 228 

^ principles of successful 67 

Cookies, br-ai;i7fruit 212 

rolled oat 212 

vanilla 211 

Cooking- lessons, course of 94 

Corn, see Vegetables 

Corn and tomato souffle ........ 153 

bread . . . .' 108, 115, 116 

meal puffs 113 

nut pie 149 

tamale 152 

meal mush, browned 219 

Cottage cheese 264 

Country gravy 157 

Course of cooking lessons 94 

Cracked wheat 219 

Cranberry sauce 260 

Cream filling 200 

puffs 200 

rice pudding 195 

roast flour ■. 265 

rolls ■ 118 

tapioca pudding 193 

Croquettes, rice and egg 155 

rice, with jelly f 198 

Croutons, bread 265 

Cruelty of flesh eating 51 

Crumb custard pudding 196 

Custard, baked 199 

baked, soft 200 

boiled 199 

pie '. 206 

sauce 160 

Cutlet, nut, fine herbs sauce 154 

Date rolls , . ii5^_ 

salad, stuffed l&/ 

whip ; 198 

Demineralized food and 

constipation 34 

Desserts igo 

cakes and cookies 207 

pies 202 

puddings and jellies 192 

27s 



INDEX 



Diabetes mellitus, diet in 243 

Diabetic bread no 

food table 244 

puffs IIS 

Diet in disease 236 

anaemia (secondary) 246 

cancer of stomach 240 

colitis (chronic) 241 

constipation 241 

diabetes mellitus 243 

diarrhea 242 

gastric disorders 238 

high acidity . . ; 240 

infectious diseases 236 

influenza 236 

intestinal disorders , . ". . 241 

low acidity 239 

measles 237 

mumps 237 

nephritis 246 

pneumonia 237 

scarlet fever 237 

tuberculosis 243 

typhoid fever 237 

ulcer of the stomach 240 

whooping cough 237 

Diet, liquid 238 

soft, semisolid, or semiliquid . . 238 

Dietetic errors : 79 

Dough breads 117 

Dressings, baked 133, 134 

Dressings, salad . ., 178 

boiled dressing 180 

cream dressing 180 

French dressing 180 

mayonnaise 178 

mayonnaise, cream 180 

mayonnaise, economical 179 

mayonnaise without eggs 180 

queen fruit sauce 181 

Dried fruits 191 

Drinking at meals 82 

Dumplings, baked apple 207 

potato stew with 138 

potato with 124 

Eating between meals 80 

™^sgg gravy 157 

sauce 158 

Eggnog, cream 234 

dry 23s 

fruit , 235 

orange 235 

Eggplant sauti 142 

See also Vegetables 

276 



Eggs ,... 221 

preservation of 255 

Emulsified vegetable oil 261 

Entire wheat bread 35, 87, 105 

Entrees and noon-meal dishes . . 132 
beans, see Beans 1 

corn and tomato souffiS - 153 

corn meal fillets 150 

corn nut pie , 149 

corn tamale 152 

dressings, baked 133, 134 

dumplings with potato stew 138 

eggplant, baked savory 142 

eggplant saute, family style . . . 142 

frijoles, savory, with rice 146 

garbanzos 156 

hash, lentil and potato 135 

hash, savory potato 134 

imperial roast 137 

Irish stew, vegetarian ... v ... . 140 

lentil and potato stew 138 

lentil and rice loaf 147 

lentil patties, favorite 141 

macaroni and bean pie 143 

macaroni au gratin 144 

macaroni, bakAl, and olives . . 145 
macaroni baked family style . . 143 

macaroni Creole 144 

macaroni egg sauce 144 

macaroni with new peas 144 

New England dinner ' 151 

noodle and potato stew 138' 

noodles au gratin 145 

noodles, creamed 145 

noodles, savory, en potato 

border 146 

noodles with beans 142 

noodles with peas 145 

nut and potato pie 135 

nut cutlet, fine herbs sauce . . . ^54 

nut meat with dressing 135 

nuttose and potato, scalloped. . 137 

nuttose, homemade 134 

olive fillets 150 

potato and bean pie 142 

potato and lentil stew 138 

potato and noodle stew 138 

_ potato stew with dumplings . . 138 

potpie, savory 139 

ragout of vegetables with 

noodles 140 

rice and egg croquettes 155 

rice and lentil loaf 147 

rice and nut patties 14J 



INDEX 



rice and soy bean loaf 156 

rice and soy bean patties 156 

rice, baked, Italienne 147 

rice, Spanish 148 

rice with" peas 148 

roasted potato with dressing . . 135 
roast nut meat with dressing . . 135 

roast, vegetarian pot 136 

roast, walnut 136 

savory frijoles with rice 146 

savory vegetable loaf . : 146 

scalloped potato with nuttose . . 137 
scalloped vegetable oyster 

Italienne 150 

spaghetti and cornlet ......... 149 

spaghetti, baked, en croustade . 149 

spaghetti in -tomato 148 

Spanish rice 148 

stew, bean and macaroni 141 

stew, potato and noodle 138 

stew, potato with dumplings . . 138 

stew, vegetable gluten 139 

stew, vegetarian Irish 140 

tam'ale, baked corn 152 

tamale mush 152 

tamale pie 153 

vegetable loaf en aspic 151 

vegetable loaf, savory 146 

vegetarian pot roast 136 

walnut roast 136 

walnut timbales 152 

Entire wheat and white flour 

breads 13, zz>i 35 

Essentials to success 96 

Ethics of flesh eating 50 

Fats ...;.• 13 

in cooking 77 

Fat-soluble A .^ 19 

Favorite lentil patties .1 141 

Favorite wheat biscuit 119 

Fillets, cereal ISO 

olive 150 

Filling for cake 214 

apple cre^m 214 

lemon 214 

orange 214 

strawberry • 215 

Flaxseed tea 232 

Flesh-eating a cause of disease . . 48 

Flesh food 38, 42, 48. SS. 59 

Flour, browned , 265 

cream roast 265 

^ entire wheat and white 35 

the best 99 



Food calcium 33 

classification, table of 86 

combinations 72 

composition, table of 90 

economics ....'. 57 

iron J 32, 246; 

minerals essentilh^ all life ... 29 

values ^k> SS, 59 

Foods, blood-building 246 

their uses in the body 11 

French dressing 180 

Frijoles, savory, with rice 146 

Frosting, boiled 213 

orange , 213 

. ornamental 214 

Fruit ices 247 

apricot 248 

grapefruit 248 

lemon 247 

orange .^ 248 

. strawberry '. 248 

Fruit pudding, Graham ........ 192 

pudding, pressed 197 ■ 

pudding, steamed 192 

Fruits and vegetables 75 

canning 250 

dried -. 191 

Garbanzos 156 

Gastric disorders, diet in ....... 238 

Gelatin,_ vegetable 201 

Gluten biscuit no 

gruel 230 

stew, vegetable ... ■.' 139 

Grano cereal 266 

with dates . . ; 221 

Gravies and sauces 157 

Gravy, brown 157 

brown cream 157 

country IS7 

egg IS7 

Green tomato mince pie 207 

Green tomato pie 206 

Gruel, corn meal 230 

cracker 231 

flake .' 230 

flour, browned 231 

flour, white 231 

gluten 230 

granose 230 

oatmeal 230 

rice 231 

Hash, lentil and potato 135 

savory potato 134 

277 



INDEX 



Hasty eating 38, 79 

Heat and energy foods 13 

Hints, practical 69 

Homemade nuttose 134 

Ice cream 247, 249 

Icings for cake 213 

Imperial roast 137 

Individual picnic pie 205 

Infectious diseases, diet in 236 

Influenza, diet in 236 

Internal defenses 31 

Intestinal disorders, diet in 241 

. Invalid recipes 230 

Irish stew, vegetarian 140 , 

Iron in food 32, 246 

Jelly (agar) 201 

berry mold 201 

fruit J 201 

lemon ....:..'. 201 

orange , 201 

^ Jelly making 259 

cranberry 260 

currant 260 

plum 259 

Johnnycake 1 16 

Junket 234 

Kohl-rabi 172 

Lactosa 264 

Large variety at one nieal 81 

Lemon albumen 233 

sauce 160 

snow 194 

. whey 234 

Lemonade 234 

with egg 234 

Lentil and potato hash 135 

and potato stew 138 

and rice loaf 147 

patties, favorite 141 

Lentils, stewed 154 

-Macaroni and bean pie 143 

and bean stew 141 

-and egg sauce 144 

au gratin 144 

baked, and oliyes 145 

baked family style 143 

Creole 144 

in tomato 144 

with new peas 144 

Malted milk 233 

278 



Mayonnaise 178 

cream 180 

economical 179 

. without egg 180 

Measles, diet in 237 

Meat, see Flesh Food 

Menus for one week 88 

Milk and sugar 76 

Mince pie, green tomato 207 

Mineral matter 12, 29, 55 

Minerals essential to all life 29 

Miht sauce 160 ' 

Miscellaneous recipes 261 

Mumps, diet in 237 

Natural food of man . . • 37 

Nephritis, diet in • 246 

New England dinner ijl 

Noodles ' 264 

and potato stew '. 138 

au gratin 145 

creamed 145 

ragout of vegetables with .... 140 
savory, en potato border . . . . ; 146 

with peas 14s 

Nut and fruit bars 266 

and potato hash, savory 134 

and potato pie '. 135 

and rice patties I41 

cutlet, fine herbs sauce 154 

meat, roast, with dressing 135 

sauce 158 

Nuttose and potato scalloped . ; . 137 
homemade 134 

Oatmeal cookies 212 

gems 114 

gruel ; 230 

porridge 219 

pudding 195 

Objects sought in cooking 61 

Okra and tomato 173 i 

Olive fiUels 1 150 

sauce 158 

Omelet, bread 223 

plain 222 

puff 223 

Orange albumen 234 

cream pudding 197 

eggnog 23s 

frosting 213 

ice 248 

Overeating 82 

Parker house rolls 108 

Parsley sauce 159 



INDEX 



Pasteurized milk 262 

Pastry 202 

Patties, bean 155 

favorite lentil 141 

rice and nut 141 

rice and soy bean 156 

Peaches, stewed dried 192 

Peach sherbet 249 

Pearl barley 220 

Peas, chick, see Garbanzos 

Peas, new 162 

Peppers, stuffed bell 172 

Picnic pie, individual 205 

Pie crust, beaten oil 202 

grano 202 

plain pastry 202 

Pies; apple 203 

banana cream •. . . . r;_^_^20S 

custard . f 206 

green tomato V . . . . . 206 

green tomato mince 207 

lemon 204 

picnic, individual 205 

prune 203 

pumpkin 204 

pumpkin, without eggs 204 

raisin 204 

strawberry 203 

Planning the meal and menu 

making 85 

Pneumonia, diet in 237 

Polyneuritis 16 

Pop corn balls 266 

Pop-overs 114 

Potato, see Vegetables 

Potpie, savory 139 

Practical hints 69 

Preservation in salt 255 

of eggs 2SS 

Principles of successful cookery 67 

Protein 12, 38, 53 

foods high in ■ 243 

Prune pie 203 

pudding 197 

whip 198 

Prunes, soaked dried 191 

stewed dried 191 

Puddings 

apple arid raisin pudding 199 

apple snow I93 

blancmange 196 

bread custard pudding 19S 

cottage pudding 198 

cream puffs 200 

cream rice pudding 195 



cream tapioca pddding 193 

crumb custard pudding ...... 196 

custard, baked 199 

custard, baked, soft 200 

custard, boiled 199 

date whip 198 

fruit tapioca 193 

Graham fruit pudding 192 

lemon snow 194 

oatmeal pudding 195 

orange cream pudding 197 

pressed fruit pudding 197 

prune pudding 197 

prune whip 198 

rice croquettes 198 

rice custard pudding 196 

sago fruit mold 198 

scalloped apples 194 

steamed fruit pudding 192 

strawberry flummery 196 

strawberry whip 194 

tapioca, cream 193 

tapioca, fruit 193 

Pumpkin, canning 254 

pie , 204 

Queen fruit sauce 181 

Ragout of vegetables with 

noodles 140 

Rice and banana in cream 220 

and egg croquettes ISS 

and lentil loaf 147 

and nut patties 141 

and soy bean loaf 156 

and soy bean patties 156 

baked, Italienne 147 

browned 220 

creamed 220 

croquettes with jelly 198 

gruel ■ 231 

natural, steamed 219 

polished 16, 30 

pudding 19s 

Spanish 148 

water 231, 

with peas 148 

Roast, imperial 137 

nut meat with dressing 135 

potato with dressing 135 

vegetarian pot 136 

. walnut ■ 136 

Rolled oats 219 

Sabbath dishes 267 

Sago fruit mold . ' 198 

279 



INDEX 



Salads, fruit 

apple and banana l88 

apple and pimento 189 

crown prince 189 

fruit 187 

fruit and nuts 188 

fruit basket 187 

princess 188 

prune and pecan nut ; 188 

raisin 189 

ribbon apple 189 

stuffed date 189 

Waldorf 188 

Salads, vegetable 18/- 

' bean and cabbage 184 

beet and egg 185 

beet and potato • 184 

beets sliced in lemon 187 

cabbage and carrot 183 

carrot, d I'Anglaise (English) 185 

carrot and bell pepper ' 184 

celery and carrot 183 

cold slaw 183 

combination i8i 

cucumber (agar) 186 

cucumber au natural 182 

cucumbers sliced 183 

egg i8s 

Golden State 183 

Italian 184 

lettuce and tomato 181 

macaroni and olive . , 185 

macaroni (Mr. Holmden's) .. 185 

macedoine 185 

nut and celery 185 

poinsettia tomato .:... 182 

potato 184 

string bean and pimento 186 

stuffed tomato 182 

sweet potato 187 

tomato (agar) 186 

tomato en surprise 182 

tomato Francais 182 

tomato Mexicana 182 

water lily ; 186 

Salsifyi see Vegetable Oyster 

Salts, organic 12, 29, 55 

Sandwiches 22^ 

bean 224 

carrot and peas 'ia^ 

celery and olive 226 

cottage cheese and pimento . . . 225 

cucumber 224 

date and nut 224 

egg 224 

280 



egg and tomato 

honey and nut 

nut and fruit 

nut and jelly 

nut and tomato 

nut butter and oHve 

■ olive and bell pepper 

olive and tomato 

picnic 

raisin ' 

savory egg '. . . 

, spinach and egg . .' 

stuffed egg 

Tartar ■ 

tomato 

Sauce 

Brazil nut 

cream . . . -^ 

Creole 

, custard 

egg 

fine herbs 

HoUandaise 

lemon 

mint 

nut 

olive 

parsley 

queen fruit 

tomato 

tomato cream ....'. 

vanilla 

Savory eggplant, baked 

frijoles with rice 

noodles en potato border 

nut and potato hash 

potpie .' 

vegetable loaf 

Scalloped potato and nuttose ... 

vegetable oysters Italienne . . . 

See also Vegetables 

Scarlet fever, diet in 

Scurvy 

Sherbet, apricot 

grape 

peach 

strawberry 

Shortcake 

Soda 24, 25, 

Soup royale 

Soups' 

bean, army style 

cream of barley 

cream of corn 

cream of green peas 



224 
224 
224 
223 
223 
223 
226 
226 
224 
224 
22s 
226 
227 
226 
224 

159 
158 
IS9 
160 
iS8 
IS9 
iS8 
160 
160 
158 
158 
IS9 
181 

159, 

159 ; 

160 

142 

146 

146 

134 

139 \ 

146/ 

137 

ISO 

237 

22 
248 
'249 
249 
248 
109 
III 
266 
122 
125 
128 
130 
129 



INDEX 



eteam of lettuce 129 

' cream of Lima beans 128 

cream of spinach 131 

cream of tomato 130 

cream of vegetable oyster .... 129 

family potato 128 

family vegetable 123 

farmers' favorite 125 

fruit 131 

gold 127 

noodle 126 

i)otato with dumplings ..:.... 124 

pottage St. Germain 127 

puree of brown beans 126 

puree of lentils 126 

Scotch vegetable 123 

spring vegetable julienne 122 

tomato bisqtie 127 

tomato okra 126 

vegetable broth 124 

vegetable broth, special 232 

vegetable chowder 124 

vegetable water 232 

Soy bean and rice loaf 156 

and rice patties iS6 

Soy beans, stewed 156 

Spaghetti and cornlet ...'....... 149 

baked, en croustade 149 

in tomato - 148 

Spanish- rice ' 148 

Starches and acids 73 

cooking of 61 

Sterilizing, time-table for ...... 253 

Stimulants,, artificial : 82 

Strawberry pie 203 

whip 194 

String beans 162 

canning 253 

Stuffed eggs 227 

Substitute combinations 269 

Successful cookery, principles of 67 

Sugar • 13 

and milk 70 

substitutes 269 

Suppers, late 91 

Table of food classification 86 

Table of food composition 90 

Table of food values ... 55 

Table of measures 97 

Tamale, baked corn IS2 

mush . , 152 

pie •• IS3 

Tapioca pudding, cream 193 

pudding, fruit i93 



Tea and coffee . . > ■ 83 

Third meal, the gi 

Time-table for sterilizing 253 

Toasts 

banana cream . , 217 

cream 216 

cream pea 217 

cream tomato 218 

prune 216 

raisin 217 

snowflake 217 

strawberry' 216 

walnut cream 218 

Toast water '. 231 

Tomato, green, mince pie 207 

green, pie 200 ' 

sauce ^r:\ 159 

Tomatoes, see Vegetables 

canning 254 

True food satisfies hunger 38 

Tuberculosis, diet in 243 

Two-meal plan, the 91 

Typhoid fever, diet in 237 

Ulcer of the stomach, diet in . . . 240 
Ujifermented breads iii 

Vanilla sauce 160 

Variety, large, at one meal 81 

Vegetable and flesh foods 

contrasted 42 

broth .' 124 

broth, special 232 

butter 261 

canning 250 

c-howder ...:.... 124 

gelatin (agar) 201 

gluten stew 139 

loaf en aspic 151 

loaf, savory 146 

oil, emulsified '. 261 

Vegetable Recipes 

artichokes . ; 173* 

asparagus, new '. . . 163 

asparagus tips and new peas . j 163 

beans, green Lima 171 

beans, string 162 

beet greens 168 

beets, buttered 167 

beets, Italian style 167 

beets, scalloped 167 

beets, stewed 167 

bell pgppers, sweet, stuffed ". . . 172 

Brussels sprouts 174 

cabbage, boiled i74 

281 



INDEX 



cabbage in cream i74 

cabbage, scalloped 174 

cabbage, stewed I74 

carrots and green peas i6s 

carrots, breaded i66 

carrots in cream 163 

carrots, stewed, Italian style . . 165 

carrots with egg sauce 165 

carrots with tomatoes 165 

cauliflower au gratin I73 

cauliflower in cream I73 

celery, stewed 172 

celery with peas 172 

chard, Swiss 168 

corn and tomato souffle iS3 

corn, cream, baked 164 

corn, ear, baked 165 

corn, new, stewed 164 

corn on cob 164 

corn with bell peppers 164 

cucumbers, smothered 17S 

cucumbers with egg sauce 17s 

eggplant, baked 170 

eggplant, baked, savory 142 

eggplant, breaded 171 

eggplant saute 14* 

eggplant, scalloped 170 

kohl-rabi 172 

Lima beans, green 171 

okra and tomato I73 

onions, boiled I73 

onions in' cream 174 

onion, stewed • . I74 

oysterplant, scalloped 166 

oysterplant, stewed 166 

parsnips, baked 168 

parsnips, browned 168 

parsnips, with egg sauce if" 



peas, new 



162 



peppers, sweet bell, stuffed ... 172 

potato and lentil hash' 13S 

potato and noodle stew 138 

potato and nut hash, savory . . . 134 

potato and nut pie i3S 

potato cakes- 176 

potato stew with dumplings . . 138 
potatoes and nuttose, scalloped 137 

potatoes au gratin I77 

potatoes, baked . . .' 176 

potatoes, creamed I77 

potatoes duchess I75 

potatoes en surprise I7S 

potatoes, roasted 176 

potatoes, roasted, with dressing 135 
potatoes, savory 176 

282 



potatoes, scalloped 176 

potatoes, stuffed baked 176 

potatoes, sweet, glazed I77 

potatoes, sweet, mashed i77 

potatoes, sweet, roasted i77 

spinach 167 

spinach, creamed 168 

squash, summer, baked 170 

squash, summer, scalloped . . . . ■ 169 

squash, summer, stuffed 169 

squash, winter 170 

string beans 162 

succotash 171 

Swiss chard 168 

tomato, baked 163 

tomato, breaded 163 

tomato, scalloped 163 

tomato, stewed 163 

turnips in cream 171 

turnips, mashed •. 171 

turnips, scalloped 172 

turnips, stewed 171 

vegetable marrow 176 

vegetable oysters, Italienne . . . 150 

vegetable oysters, stewed 166 

Vegetables 161 

raw IS, 19 

Vegetable water 232 

Vegetarian diet and endurance . . 45 
Vegetarian diet and longevity ... 39 

Vegetarian Irish stew 140 

Vegetarianism 37 

Vegetarian pot roast 136 

Vital elements in foods ....,,... 16 

Vitamines 16, 26 

and calories 26 

effect of heat on 21 

Walnut roast 136^ 

timbales 152' 

Warmed-over dishes '. . 267 

Water glass (eggs in) 255 

Water-soluble B 20 

Water-soluble C 22 

Wheat 32, 87, 99 

flour substitutes 268 

steamed 220 

Whey, lemon 234 

Whooping cough, diet in 237 

Yeasts 103 

Yogurt 263 

Zwieback m 



