



UBRARY OF CONGRESS 




OD004ai7oao n 





^- 



THE NEW 



ANNIE DENNIS 



(Look JBook 



A COMPENDIUM OF 



POPULAR HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 
FOR THE BUSY HOUSEWIFE 



(Revised Edition) 



,^- 



ANNIE E.' DENNIS 



ATLANTA, GA. 

THE MUTUAL PUBLISHING COMPANY 






Copyrighted 1905 by 
ANNIE E. DENNIS 

Copyrighted 1921 by 
THE MUTUAL PUBLISHING COMPANY 



■^ 






Ci.A627l67 



(3- 



JJ 

ri 



PUBLISHERS' PREFACE 



The present edition— the seventh— of The New Annie 
Dennis Cook Book represents the life work of an illustrious 
woman. Born of pioneer Georgia stock, just before the war 
between the States, she arrived at the age of maturity at that 
epochal time in the .history of the South when it required every 
energy of her people to maintain the traditional hospitality of 
the old South with the attenuated revenues of the new South. 
She applied herself so well and wisely to this work that she won 
the loving praise of all who knew her. 

In the early eighties, with the encouragement of her father, 
she was induced to prove her excellence in domestic science, by 
displays of her handiwork at the State fairs at Macon and the 
expositions at Atlanta, Augusta and Columbus. So great was 
her success that the premiums awarded to her for excellence 
amounted in the aggregate to nearly ten thousand dollars. 

So wide was her fame, because of the wonderful work she 
had done, that her mail became burdened with inquiries for her 
methods of preparing the various articles in which she seemed 
so easily to excel. 

This voluminous correspondence suggested The Annie 
Dennis Cook Book, which was published nearly thirty years 
ago. The first edition was a pronounced success and that 
success has continued with each succeeding year. Generous 
help was given her in the preparation of the first edition, by a 
host of distinguished housekeepers who glorified the reconstruc- 
tion days, and with their help and her own fertile resources, 
the book has been continually improved. 

She was engaged in revising the present volume at the time 
of her death last summer. A sale of nearly one hundred thou- 
sand copies up to that time attested its title to a permanent 
place among the things that ought to be. 

Many mothers have written her that they were indebted to 
the book for such help in their young married life, that they 
knew nothing that would be of more service in setting up their 
newly married daughters as happy housekeepers. 



CANNING 

Canning is the easiest and quickest method of 
preserving fruits and vegetables. With Proper facili- 
ties and careful management it is the safest and least 
expensive. The process is simple, if the directions are 
followed implicitly. When glass jars are used it is 
necessary to have the tops fit well and to use new 
rubbers. Rubbers aftqr being used, harden and will 
not allow the tops to sink into them sufficiently to 
make them air-tight. Care should be taken m adjust- 
ing the rubbers. They must fit securely under the lid. 
The best fruit should be used. It must be ripe, 
but firm. Peel and place in the jars whole, or cut it 
desired Fill the jars with cold water and let them 
stand until ready to place on the fire ; then pour off 
the water, refill to the brim with fresh water, and add 
one teacupful of sugar to each gallon of fruit. Have 
the rubbers on the jars and put the tops on loosely. 
Have a vessel three or four inches deeper than the jars, 
place a perforated wooden bottom one inch from the 
bottom of thQ vessel; put the jars on it and fill the 
vessel with cold water to the top of the jars Eight or 
ten thicknesses of heavy cloth may be used instead ot 
the perforated wooden bottom. Place over the fire and 
let it boil. The length of time required for this will 
depend on the fruit or vegetable used. Berries, grapes, 
peaches, pears, quinces, etc., require only two or three 
minutes' boiling. When they have boiled sufficiently 
if the water does not cover the fruit, open the jar and 
fill with boiling water. Replace the top. Remove from 
the fire and tightep the tops. When they have cooled 
tighten the tops again; in a few hours they should be 
examined and if necessary, again tightened. This 
seems troublesome, but has beep found necessary with 
some jars. Vegetables are canned as directed above 
with this difference: No sugar is used and whep the 
jars are placed in the vessel to boil, they must be 
covered with water. 



6 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

A teaspoonful of salt to each half gallon jar adds to 
the flavor of the v€^getable. 

Tomatoes require three or four minutes to boil. 
Beans, corn, etc., require a longer time — from one to 
three hours. 

Notice the,se four things if you wish to succeed in 
canning: (1) The vessel containing the fruit or vege- 
table must be filled to the brim ; (2) it must be put up 
boiling hot; (3) must be perfectly air-tight; (4) and 
it must be kept in a cool, dark place. 

If the^e directions are not followed, the fruit or 
vegetables will ferment. 

Keep canned goods in a dark cellar, or, if this is 
impracticable, they should be wrapped in a brown paper 
and put in a cool, dark place. When one uses a dark 
cellar, however, nothing is necessary save to have the 
jars air-tight. 

When it is desired to cook the fruit before canning, 
p.e^l, cut, put into a porcelain kettle and just cover with 
water ; add one or two teacupf uls of white sugar to each 
half gallon of fruit. Let boil a few minutes. Remove 
from the fire and put in the jars (which have been 
warming while th^ fruit was cooking) and seal. Be 
careful that they are air-tight. 

Vegetables may be canned in the same way, but 
require more cooking. 

To Can Corn 

Select young, tendeir corn, cut twice from the cob, 
never scraping; add one heaping teaspoonful of salt 
and one-half of a level teaspoonful of soda to each half 
gallon. Put the corn in jars; fit rubbers on; and place 
jars in a vessej deep enough to allow water to come over 
the tops of the jars, after the wood or cloth has been 
put in the bottom to protect the jars. After the water 
has been put in the vessejl, place on the fire and boil 
three hours. Take from the fire, and tighten the tops, 
and when cool, again tighten them, then wrap in brown 
paper and ke^ in a cool dark place. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 7 

Corn Canned in the Ear 

Remove the shuck and silk very carefully. Select 
the most perfect ears the same size;, and small enough 
to fit the jars. Place in the jars, cover with cold water, 
and proceed as directed for canning cut corn. 

Canned Tomatoes 

Peel ripei tomatoes, put in jars and fill with cold 
water. Put the covers on and place the jars in a deep 
vessel with the perforated wooden bottom. Fill the 
vessel to within on^ inch of the top of the jars with 
cold water, place on the fire and let it boil three or four 
minutes ; seal as directed in canning corn. 

Okra 

Select young and tender pods, do not remove the 
caps, place in the jars whole, cover with cold water, 
place in a de^p vessel with the perforated wooden 
bottom; fill the vessel with cold water to the tops of 
jars and boil half an hour. Remove from the fire, and 
tighten the tops. When cold again tighten the tops 
and keep in a cool, dark place. 

Corn, Okra and Tomatoes 

Chip okra in thin pieces and boil. Peel tomatoes 
and cook. When both are tender mix them in propor- 
tion of two quarts of okra to three; of tomatoes, then 
add two quarts of young, tender corn cut from the 
cob, and a tablespoonful of salt. Let all boil fifteen 
minutes, stirring constantly. Then put in jars and 
seal while hot. It will be best to boil this a few minutes 
after it is put in the jars and then seal. When cold see 
that the tops are well tightened and kept in a cool, 
dark place. This is used for soup. 

English Peas 

Proceed as directed for butter beans. 

Squashes and Sweet Potatoes 

Wash carefully, slice, and proceed as directed for 
canned tomatoes, boiling fifteen minutes. 



8 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Butter Beans 

Shell the beans, put them in jars and cover with 
cold water. Place the jars in a dqep vessel prepared as 
directed at the head of this chapter. Fill the vessel 
with cold water within half an inch of the tops of the 
jars, put over the fire and boil an hour. Then remove 
from the fire, tighten the tops, and when cool again 
tighten. Wrap with brown paper and keep in a cool, 
dark place. If the water has boiled out of the jars 
before removing from the fire, fill with boiling water. 
To Can Snap Beans 

Wash young, tender snap beans, string them or 
place in the jars whole if preferred. Fill the jars with 
cold water, fit on the rubbers and tops, place them in a 
deep vessel with a wooden bottom or cloth placed, as 
directed at the first of this chapter. Then fill the 
vessel with cold water, to, within half an inch of the 
tops of the jars. Place on thq fire, tighten the tops, 
and when cool again tighten. Place in a cool dark 
place. 



PRESERVES 

To make preserving a success one should have, much 
time and patience, good fruit of proper ripeness, white 
sugar and kettles and pans suitable for the work. The 
fruit should be selected with great care, as any defect 
will be apt to show in the preserves, and fruit that is 
not mature will not have that rich flavor that is found 
in good home made preserves, and that is so much to 
be desired. Peaches, peiars, quinces and apples should 
be kept in clear water, after they are peeled, when 
they are to be used for jelly or preserves, as they 
darken when exposed to the air. They should not be 
allowed to stand in the water longer than is really 
necessary, as the preserves will darken, just as they 
will if exposed to the air. 

To most fruits one pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit is the rule, and is preferable, as it makes more 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 9 

syrup, does away with reboiling, and thq fruit is less 
apt to ferment and mould. But where preserves are 
to be kept in self-sealing jars, less sugar may be used 
if the jars are, well sealed, and kept in a cool, dark 
place. White sugar is always best for preserving and 
making jelly — either the granulated or loaf sugar — as 
the brown sugar will affect the flavor. 

When too much sugar is used, or the syrup boiled 
too long, crystals of sugar form in the syrup and thin 
it, and then it is apt to ferment. In this case, if in 
glass jars, place the jar in water and heat until the 
preserves can be taken out; add the juice of a lemon 
and a half teacup of wateir to each gallon of preserves, 
boil a few minutes and again seal. The juice of pre- 
serves may be clarified with the white of an egg, as in 
jelly. Mix the white of an egg with the; sugar before 
pouring in the water; let it boil up, and remove from 
the fire; pour in just a little cold water, repeat this two 
or three times, skim or strain through a flannej bag, 
and then add the fruit. Plums are preserved by 
piercing them with a darning neqdle, and pouring 
boiling syrup (made as for other preserves) over them 
seven or nine days in succession. Pineapples may 
also be preserved in this way; when you wish them 
very white, pour the syrup over them three days, then 
boil them for five minutes and seal. 

Quinces and pears harden whqn cooked in sugar; 
therefore I prefer boiling them in water until tender 
and packing in sugar for twelve or even twenty-four 
hours. Theji it is not necessary to cook them so long, 
as they are well filled with the sugar, and the water is 
out of them and is easier evaporated from the syrup 
than from the fruit. When, however, one, prefers to 
make preserves after parboiling, without packing in 
the sugar, the syrup should be made in proportion of 
half pint of water to one pound of sugar ; and for pears 
or quinces, or othe^r fruit, to retain the flavor, use the 
water that the fruit is boiled in. 



10 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Some fruits have to be cooked first in a very thin 
syrup to keep them from breaking or getting too soft ; 
viz. : apples, plums, strawberries, etc. Peaches are best 
for preserving when not very ripe, and they should be 
peeled, packed in sugar and allowed to stand twelve 
hours and the,n, if a very firm peach is not used, the 
syrup should be poured off and boiled a few minutes 
before the peaches are placed in it. Some prefer to 
harden the te>nder fruits by taking them from the syrup 
after they have boiled until clear, and letting them 
stand in the sun several hours. This is the old 
fashioned way of preserving and is a good one, as too 
much cooking will destroy the flavor of some fruits and 
make them dark. Large quantities of preserves can 
be made at one time if a large shalllow vessel is used. 

A square poplar box, with copper bottom is the, best 
preserving kettle for making large quantities of jelly, 
catsup, or pickles. It may be made any size desired. 



JELLY 

Fruit for jelly should never be fully ripe; some 
fruits must be almost green. There are some excep- 
tions to this rule, but very few. It is important in 
jelly making that the fruit be usqd in the proper stage 
of ripeness, as no amount of cooking will make jelly of 
over-ripe fruit, and, if too green, the flavor of the fruit 
is lost. It is also necessary in making clear, firm jelly 
that good, sound fruit be, used. A porcelain kettle is 
always best, but a brass kettle, if kept bright, or a new 
tin pan, will do. The granite ware, now so common 
and cheap, is entirely unobjectionable for preserving 
purposes. 

When the fruit is being cut, it should be kept in 
clear water, placed in the kettle, and covered with fresh 
water, as the fruit is apt to have colorefi the first. 
Keep the kettle covered, and steam the fruit until 
perfectly tender, as you wish to get the juice( from the 
fruit without breaking or mashing it more than is 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK H 

necessary. When ready to strain, pour in a jelly bag 
(flannel is best for this purpose) ; hang it up and let it 
drip; don't squeeze. It is best to boil the juice a few 
minutes before adding the sugar. Speed is very 
necessary in this work, if the natural flavor of the fruit 
is retained and the jelly is bright and clear. Use a 
large, flat vessel and have a quick fire, that the water 
may evaporate as quickly as possible. With most 
fruits one measure of sugar to one of fruit is the rule ; 
but with quinces, ripe grapes, and a few others, less 
may be used. 

A wooden or silver spoon should always be used 
with jelly. The jelly should make in twenty or thirty 
minutes from the time the sugar is added, and it should 
be skimmed all the time it is boiling. The best way to 
tell when it is done, is by dropping a little^ from the 
spoon into a cup of cold water ; if it goes to the bottom 
and forms, it is ready to be taken from the fire^ 
Another way is to let a small quantity cool on a per- 
fectly dry surface. After pouring in the glasse^s, let 
them stand in the sun several hours. Then place 
papers, dipped in brandy, on the jelly and cover. Never 
cover with tins until the, jelly is perfectly cold, as the 
moisture from the warm jelly will cause the tops to 
rust. It should be kept in a dry place. 

To clarify jelly, beat the white of an egg and put 
in the juice when the sugar is add^d ; when it boils up 
as if it would boil over, take it from the fire and pour 
in a teaspoonful of cold water. After the ebullition 
ceases, put it on the fire again. Repe,at this, then 
strain through a jelly bag, return to the fire, and let 
boil until it jellies. 

To Keep Jelly 

When the jelly is cold in the, tumblers, put over 
them the paper dipped in whiskey ; then using a candle, 
melt over them spermaceti a sixteenth of an inch thick, 
being sure, to have it come up well at the sides. Put 
on the tops and set away in a cool, dry closet. 



12 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BLACKBERRIES AND DEWBERRIES 

Being the first berries of the season these berries 
are much appreciated. They are, good for jams, pre- 
serves, pickles, jelly, wine, cordial and sauces. When 
canned they are almost, or quite, as good as the fresh 
fruit. 

These berries should be used as soon as gathered — 
never allowed to stand more than a few hours, as they 
sour very quickly. This is true of all berries, and it is 
important, if one, wishes to succeed with canning, pre- 
serving, etc., that the fruit be fresh and firm. 

Cordial 

Wash the berries and place in a tin vessel, with a 
teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice and mace to each 
gallon of berries. Cover with brandy or whiskey, and 
let stand four or five days. Strain and add three 
pounds of sugar to e^ch gallon of juice. Let it heat 
until the sugar is dissolved. Bottle and cork while hot, 
and keep in a cool, dark place. 

Blackberry Cordial 

Boil the berries until they will break to pieces, 
strain through a bag. To each pint of juice add one 
pound of white sugar, half ounc^ of cinnamon, half 
ounce of mace, two teaspoonfuls of cloves. Do not use 
ground spices. Boil for fifteen minutes. When cold, 
strain, and to each quart of juice add one tumblerful 
of whiskey. Bottle and seal. 

Blackberry Shrub 

Gather the blackberries, wash and pick over, so 
that there may be no sour or imperfect ones. Cover 
with apple vinegar (two years old) and cook until soft, 
strain, and sweeten the, juice to taste; boil down until 
about the consistency of thick syrup ; bottle and put in 
a cool, dark place. In serving use three or four 
tablespoonfuls to a glass of cold water. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK IS 
To Can Berries 

Select the berries ripe and firm. Put them in jarsy 
fill with cold water, have the rubbers on the jars and 
place the tops on loosely. Place the jars in a can, or 
any de^p vessel, in which has been placed a heavy, 
folded cloth, or a perforated wooden bottom. Fill the 
can to within an inch of the top of the jars, put on the 
fire and let the water in the can boil three minutes. 
Tighte^n the tops, remove from the fire and let cool. 
When cool, again tighten the tops. A teacupful of 
sugar to each half gallon may be added to the berries 
when they are first put in the jars, if desired. Care 
should be taken to have them well sealed before pack- 
ing away, and they have, to be kept in a cool place. 

Strawberries, dewberries, and raspberries may be 
canned in the same way. 

Wine 

Cover the berries with boiling water and let them 
stand twelve hours. Strain and add two pounds of 
sugar to each gallon of juice. Put in bags, taking care 
to keep the vessels full to the brim, so that as the juice 
fe,rments, the scum which rises may flow off. They 
should be refilled every morning, with juice from a 
smaller vessel kept for this purpose. Continue this for 
four or five days, then stop the jugs closely, and aftejr 
ten days cork tight. This will be ready to bottle and 
seal in four months. Instead of using hot water, as 
directed, one may squeeze the juice from the berries, 
and proceed at once, using one pound best sugar to the 
gallon of juice. 

Dry Wine 

Wash and squeeze the, juice from fresh, ripe berries. 
Pour the juice into jugs ; keep full to the brim for four 
or five days that the scum may flow off, replenishing 
each day with juice kept for the purpose. This will 
be ready to bottle and seal in six months. 



14 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

STRAWBERRIES 

Preserves 

Strawbejrries to be preserved should not be very 
ripe, and should be used as soon as picked. Gather 
them in the morning. Do not heap them in a deep 
vessel, but place them on shallow baskets or dishes 
until capped. Be careful not to have any bruised or 
imperfect berries among the,m. Medium sized berries, 
but uniform in size, are to be preferred. 

Allow one pound of white sugar to one pound of 
berries. Pack berries in sugar and let them stand 
until a syrup is formed. Then place on^a quick fire 
and boil for half an hour, or until the berries are 
transparent. Take out the berries and place in jars; 
boil the syrup ten or fifteen minutes, pour over the 
berries and seal. If the berriqs come to the top, stand 
the jars on their heads until cold. 

Strawberry Jam 

Let the berries for the jam be thoroughly ripe, 
but fre,sh and firm. Measure the fruit and add one 
pound of white sugar to each pint of berries. Mash 
the berries, thoroughly mixing well with sugar; let 
them stand for half an hour. Place on the fire and 
boil, stirring constantly until it is clear and thick. 
Place in jars with paper dipped in brandy fitted closely 
on the jam, then seal. 

Strawberry Jelly 

Gather the berries for jejlly just as they are begin- 
ning to turn red. Boil them until they are tender, in 
just enough water to cover. Strain and again boil the 
juice ten or fiftqen minutes; then measure the juice 
and add one cup of white sugar to each cup of juice. 
Then boil twenty minutes, always skimming carefully. 

Another Way for Strawberry Jam 

Select berries ripe and firm. Place in a kettle, with 
one pint of water to one gallon of berries. Boil until 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 15 

the berries are te^nder, then add three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pint of berries and boil twenty 
or thirty minutes. This will be firm like jelly. 



RASPBERRIES 

There are several varietie,s of the berries, all good 
for jellies, jams, etc. If very light jelly is desired, 
the pink or white varieties should be used, and the 
berries gathered just before they are ripe. For jam 
very ripe berries should be used. For preserves 
gather the berries as for jelly. Ripe fruit is desirable, 
also for wines and cordials. The berries should always 
be, used freshr 

Raspberry Shrub 

Pour a quart of good cider vinegar over two quarts 
of raspberries, and, after covering closely, set aside for 
forty-eight hours. Strain through a muslin bag, and 
to every pint of liquor add one pound of sugar. Boil 
slowly for five minute^s, remove the scum, let cool for 
fifteen minutes and bottle. A tablespoonful of this 
added to a glass of ice water, makes a most refreshing 
drink. Blackberry and strawberry vinegars are made 
in the same manner. 

Raspberry Jelly 

Take half gallon of berries and boil them with one 
pint of water until thoroughly done; strain, and to 
one pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Boil until 
it jellies and pour in molds. 

Raspberry Jam 

Mash the bejrries thoroughly. To half gallon of 
fruit add one pint of water and boil ten minutes ; then 
add three pounds of sugar. Boil thirty minutes, 
stirring constantly. If desired, the berries, after ten 
minute,s, may be rubbed through a sieve just fine 
enough to keep the seed from going through. Then 
add sugar and boil as before. 



16 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Raspberry Preserves 

Gather the berrie^ almost ripe. Put half a gallon 
in a porcelain kettle with one pint of water. Boil ten 
minutes, or until the berries are tender. Drain off 
two-thirds of thej juice, and add one pound of sugar to 
one of berries, and boil until the syrup is thick. Put 
in jars and seal while hot. 

Raspberry Wine 

Pour boiling water over the berries, and let them 
stand twelve hours ; strain. Use two and a half pounds 
of sugar to one gallon of juice. Let stand for ten days. 
Strain, put in jugs and cork. Keep in a cool place for 
six months, then draw off and bottle. 

Brandied Raspberries 

Cover the berries with brandy or whiskey. Let 
stand for four days, strain and sweeten with three 
pound of sugar to one gallon of juice. Bottle and 
seal at once. 

Raspberry Pickle 

Wash half gallon fresh, almost rip^ berries. Place 
them in a self-sealing jar with half teaspoonful each of 
cloves and allspice and one stick of cinnamon. Boil 
one and a half pints of good apple vinegar, with half 
teacupful of sugar and pour over berries. Sejal while 
hot. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Put two gallons of ripe raspberries in a stone jar, 
pour over them a gallon of cider vinegar. Let stand 
twenty-four hours, drain, pour the^ liquid over a gallon 
of fresh berries, and let stand over night; strain and 
allow one measure of sugar to every measure of juice. 
Boil and skim. When cold bottle. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 17 

CURRANTS 

Spiced Currants 

To four pounds of currants, picked from the stems, 
take two pounds of sugar, one-half pint of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful each of all kinds of spices, a small piece of 
race ginger. Place the spices in a cheese-cloth bag. 
Put the vinegar and sugar on the fire ; when it comes to 
a boil skim it and pour over the currants and cook 
gently for ten minutes. Put into a stone jar, and next 
day heat the syrup and pour boiling hot on the fruit. 
Repeat this for several consecutive days. The last day 
boil the, syrup until it just covers the fruit. 

Red Currant Jelly 

Take perfectly ripe red currants. Wash them and 
put into a preserving kettle, with one pint of water, and 
set ove^r the fire until they are well scalded. Pass the 
juice through a jelly bag, and to every pint of it add 
one pound of white sugar. Boil for twenty minutes 
and try a spoonful by dropping it in a glass of water. 
As soon as it jellies pour it into the glasses, and when 
it ge,ts perfectly cold, seal. 



HUCKLEBERRIES 

The huckleberry may be put up in any way that 
dewberries are, but they require less sugar than other 
berries. 

Jam 

Wash the berries, put in a kettle with a little water, 
and boil until tender. Add half pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit, and boil thirty minutes or until quite 
thick. 

Cordial 

Cover the berries with boiling water and whiskey 
in equal quantities ; add a few spices and let stand five 
days. Strain, and sweeten with two and a half pounds 
of sugar to each gallon of juice. Bottle and keep in a 
cool, dark place. 



18 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Jelly 

Boil the berries (in very little water) until very 
tender; strain, and boil the juicq five minutes, then 
measure ; and add one pound of sugar to one and a half 
pints of juice; return to the fire and boil twenty 
minutes. Jelly should always boil fast. 

Pickle 

The huckleberry may be pickled just as the dew- 
berries are. 



PLUMS 

Plum Cordial 

Take half ripe plums, boil them three minutes, pour 
off the water, and add one pound of sugar to one of 
fruit; boil for thirty minutes, or until the, syrup is 
thick. 

To Preserve Greengage Plums 

Select large, barely ripe greengage plums. With a 
sharp knife pare thejm carefully, taking off nothing but 
the skin. Drop them in cold water as they are pared. 
Weigh them and allow pound for pound of white sugar. 
Put the sugar in a preserving kettle with a little watejr, 
and let it cook to a syrup. While it is simmering, drop 
in the plums and let them cook until they are clear and 
tender. Repiove them to the jars in which they are to 
be kept, and boil the syrup down until it is as thick as 
you want it. Pour it over the plums and seal. 

Preserved Plums 

Pour boiling water over the egg or other large plum ; 
the^n remove the skin. Make a syrup of a pound of 
sugar and a teacup of water to each pound of fruit, and 
when boiling hot pour over the plums. Let it remain 
over night, then drain, boil again, skim and pour over 
plums. Let them remain in this another day. Then 
put over thq fire in syrup, and boil until clear; remove 
with skimmer, pack carefully in cans; boil the syrup 
until thick, pour over plums and seal. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 19 

Spiced Plums 

Boil half gallon plums five minutes; pour off the 
water and add three pounds of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of ground cloves, allspice and cinnamon, and one pmt 
of vinegar. Boil half hour, stirring constantly. Seal 
while hot. 

Green Plum Pickle — Imitation Olives 

One tablespoonful of white mustard seed and one 
tablespoonful of salt, to one pint of vinegar. Have the 
plums grown, but not at all ripe. Boil the vmegar and 
pour it over the plums. Repeat this three mornmgs 

in succession. 

Sour Plum Pickle 

Take half gallon of greep plums, pierce them two or 

three times with a needle, put in jars. Boil one quart 

of vinegar with two cups of sugar, one teaspoontul ot 

cloves and one stick of cinnamon. Pour over the plums 

and seal while hot. 

Salt Plum Pickle 

Take half gallon of large green plums, wash and 
put in self-sealing jar. Make a pickle of one quart ot 
water, one teaspoonful of vinegar, one of salt; boil a 
few minutes, pour over the plums and seal while hot. 
Keep until cool weather and they will be ready for use. 
Plum Sauce, No. 1 

Take half gallon of almost green plums, wash and 
cover with water and boil fifteen minutes ; pour off the 
water, add to the plums two pounds of sugar and one 
teacupful of good apple vinegar. Boil for half an hour 
Take from the fire and flavor with one teaspoonful each 
of extract of cloves and ginger. 

Plum Sauce, No. 2 

Boil three quarts of half ripe plums fifteen minute^, 
rub through a colander, add one pound of sugar, one 
teacupful of apple vinegar, half teaspoonful each of 
ground cloves, mace and cinnamon ; again place on the 
fire and boil for half an hour. Seal while hot and keep 
in a cool, dark place. 



20 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Preserved Greengages 

Allow one pound of sugar and a teacup of water 
to each pound of fruit, halved and stoned. Boil the 
syrup ten minutes before putting the plums in; skim 
and boil all together till tender. Take from fire and 
let stand over night. The next day boil again, adding 
a few of the blanched kernels taken from the stones. 
Pack the fruit in jars, pour over the syrup and seal. 

Plum Jelly 

Take half gallon of half ripe plums, put in porcelain 
kettle, cover with water and boil ten minutes ; pour off 
the juice and strain it through flannel; add one pound 
of white sugar to each pint of juice and boil until it 
will harden when cold. It will take from twenty to 
thirty minutes. 

Plum Sweet Pickle 

Scald until the skins are tender, half gallon of 
almost green plums; drain them well, and place in jars. 
Have ready a syrup made of two pounds of sugar, one 
pint of apple vinegar, teaspoonful each of whole cloves 
and mace, pour over plums while hot and seal. 



CHERRIES 

For preserving, pickling, or putting up in any way 
this fruit should be gathered when ripe, and used while 
perfectly fresh. 

Canned Cherries 

Wash the fruit and put it in jars ; add one teacupful 
of sugar to each gallon of fruit ; fill with water, put the 
tops on loosely and place the jars in a vessel of cold 
water, with a heavy cloth folded at the bottom; or 
what is better, use a perforated false wooden bottom of 
the vessel. Put on the fire and boil five minutes; 
remove from the fire, tighten the tops, and keep in a 
cool, dark place. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 21 

JeUy 

Wash three» quarts of cherries, and place in a vessel 
with two teacupfuls of water; boil until very tender. 
Pour off the juice, measure and add one measure of 
sugar to each measure of juice. Boil until jellied. Put 
in molds and cover when cold with writing paper dipped 
in brandy. 

Preserves 

Stone three quarts of cherries ; put in a vessel with 
one teacupful of water. Add half the weight of the 
fruit in sugar, and boil until the cherries are tender. 
Then add the same amount of sugar ; boil half an hour, 
put in jars and cover or seal while hot. 

Sweet Pickle 

Wash half gallon of cherries; put in self-sealing 
jars, with half teaspoonful each of cloves and mace. 
Boil one and a half pints of good apple vinegar, and 
one teacupful of sugar ; pour over the cherries and seal 
while hot. 

Brandy Cherries, No. 1 

Select large ripe cherries; put in a jar a layer of 
sugar and a layer of cherries until full; let the last 
layer be sugar. Seal and keep in a cool place. They 
will be ready for use in three months. 

Brandy Cherries, No. 2 

Fill the jar with cherries ; make a syrup of half 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Scald the fruit 
in this syrup, but do not boil. Remove the fruit, boil 
the syrup until it is reduced to two-thirds the quantity ; 
add one-third as much brandy, pour over the cherries, 
and seal while hot. 



APPLES 

Apple Preserves 

Make a syrup of white sugar and water enough to 
dissolve the sugar. Let boil two or three minutes in a 
flat pan. Select large firm apples and peel and slice 



22 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

thin, leaving in the core ; drop in enough pieces to cover 
the top of the syrup; boil them slowly until they are 
transparent, take them out on a flat dish and set them 
in the sun ; put more apples in the syrup and continue 
as before until the syrup is all used up. Then make 
fresh syrup enough to cover the apples, put all the 
apples in this syrup after it has boiled a few minutes, 
and boil them ten or fifteen minutes ; then place in jars 
and pour the syrup over them and seal. It will take 
one pound of sugar to one of fruit, using half to boil 
the apples in and half for making the last syrup. 

Apple Jelly 

It is a mistaken idea that any kind of apples will 
make jelly. Select sound, almost ripe apples, peel, 
slice and put in a porcelain kettle, keep well covered 
with water until the kettle is nearly full of apples, 
drain off the water and cover the apples with clear 
water; cover the kettle closely, place on the stove and 
boil until very tender. Drain off the juice and add one 
cup of sugar to one of juice. Boil until jellied, which 
will be in twenty or thirty minutes. 

Apple Butter 

Peel and cut the apples, leaving out the cores. Put 
in the kettle with a small quantity of water, boil until 
they will mash easily, rub them through a colander, 
and add half pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. 
Boil until clear and thick, take from the fire and flavor 
with extracts of ginger, cloves or cinnamon. Ground 
spices can be used but will make it dark. 

Apple Sweet Pickle 

Peel and quarter the apples, taking out cores. Boil 
for half gallon of apples, nearly one quart of vinegar, 
one and a half cups of sugar, teaspoonful of whole 
cloves and one stick of cinnamon. After it has been 
boiled a few minutes, place the apples in it until they 
are scalded well, put them in a jar, pour the vinegar 
over them and seal while hot. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 23 

To Preserve Ripe Apples 

Peel and cut in any desired size, rejecting the core. 
Place in an earthen or granite vessel, and cover with 
granulated sugar, using three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar to one of fruit. Let stand until the sugar is 
dissolved, then place over the fire and cook fast until 
the apples are clear (being careful not to let them 
scorch) ; this will be twenty-five or thirty minutes if 
there is not a very large quantity of apples. This 
recipe is best for winter apples, and one dozen large 
apples prepared in this way will make half gallon of 
preserves. 

Prepared in the same way, using half a pound of 
sugar to one pound of apples, they are nice for supper, 
served with cream. Ripe pears may be used in the 
same way. 

Apple Vinegar 

Mash well two or three bushels of apples ; put them 
in a barrel and fill with water, using one quart of cane 
syrup to two and a half gallons of water; cover with 
a coarse cloth and keep in a warm place. In the 
kitchen, back of the stove, is a good place, if con- 
venient to have it there. Vinegar can be made in this 
way in a jar, using the peelings and cores of the apples 
as they are used for jelly and preserves. It will make 
in a few months, but is not good for keeping pickle until 
eighteen months old and it is better at two years. 

Cider Vinegar 

To each gallon of cider, add two quarts of water and 
half quart cane syrup. Keep in a warm place, covered 
with cloth, that it may have plenty of air. 

To Keep Apple Cider Sweet 

Keep the cider for twelve hours. Put in brass or 
porcelain kettle and add one teacupful of sugar to each 
gallon of cider; boil five minutes, skimming all the 
time. Put in jugs and seal while hot. This will keep 
in a cool place, and is very much better than the fresh 
cider. 



24 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Spiced Apples 

Eight pounds of apples, pared and cored, six pounds 
of sugar, one gallon of vinegar; if the latter is very- 
strong use seven pounds of sugar. Add cinnamon, 
cloves and spices to taste. Boil the vinegar and spices 
together, and put in the apples while boiling ; let them 
remain until tender, or about twenty minutes. Place 
the apples in jars and pour over them the boiling 
vinegar. Having made a syrup of the sugar mean^ 
while, fifteen or twenty minutes after pouring in the 
vinegar, pour in the syrup over them, boiling hot ; then 
close immediately. Must have hard, firm apples. 

Chutney 

Pare and quarter one dozen large, sour apples, and 
chop fine, together with two green peppers, from which 
the seed have been removed, one teacupful of stoned 
raisins, and two medium sized onions. Put the mixture 
into a porcelain kettle, with one (Juart of apple vinegar ; 
simmer two hours. Add two teacupfuls of sugar, and 
two teaspoonf uls each of salt, mustard seed, and ground 
ginger; cork while hot, and keep in a cool dark place. 



CRAB APPLES 

Preserves 

Peel the apples and drop them in water; when all 
are ready, place them in a porcelain kettle and let them 
just come to a boil; remove from the fire, pour them 
with the water into an earthen bowl and let them stand 
twenty-four hours. Then take them out of the water 
and with the small blade of a pocket knife remove the 
cores. Drain them and then pack in sugar, using one 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit ; let them stand 
twelve hours, pour oflf the syrup and boil it twenty 
minutes, then put the apples in and let them boil until 
clear, when they will be ready to seal. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 25 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Remove the stems, wash the apples and rub them 
well with a coarse cloth. Put them in a porcelain 
kettle, cover with water and let them boil until very- 
tender; strain out the juice, return it to the fire and 
boil 10 or 15 minutes; then add one pound of sugar 
to each pint of juice and boil until it jellies; it will 
take only a few minutes. 

Crab Apple Pickle 

Peel and core the apples ; put them in a jar and pour 
over them hot vinegar, sweetened and spiced, as for 
peach pickle. Let it remain twenty-four hours, drain 
off the vinegar, heat, pour over the apples and seal. 



APRICOTS 

There is no fruit finer in flavor and none better 
suited for cooking than the apricot. It should be 
gathered when almost ripe ; never allowed to soften. 

Apricot Preserves 

Peel the apricot and take out the seed. Weigh the 
fruit and take an equal quantity of sugar; pack in an 
earthen vessel, using a layer of fruit and a layer of 
sugar until all is used; then let stand twenty-four 
hours, place on a fire in a porcelain or brass kettle, and 
boil until the apricots are transparent; take them out, 
put in jars, and if the syrup is not thick, continue to 
boil for a few minutes; then pour over the fruit and 
cover while hot. Keep in a cool place. 

Brandied Apricots 

Take almost ripe apricots; make a syrup of half 
their weight in sugar and water enough to cover them. 
When it is boiling put the apricots in, and let them 
remain four or five minutes. Take out the fruit and 
place in jars; boil the syrup until it is reduced to half; 
then add to it sufficient brandy to cover the apricots ; 
let cool ; pour over them and seal. 



26 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Apricot Jelly 

Peel almost ripe apricots; place in porcelain kettle 
and nearly cover with water; boil until perfectly done. 
Strain, and add one measure of sugar to each pint of 
juice. Boil thirty minutes, or until it jellies. 

Apricots Crystallized 

Take half ripe apricots; dip them a few at a time 
with a wire dipper, into strong, hot soda water; let 
them stay one minute, rub them off with a coarse towel 
and drop them into cold water. Make a syrup of half 
a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit; let it boil ten 
minutes. Cut the apricots in halves, remove the seed 
and put them in the syrup, not many at a time, or they 
will become soft. Let them boil fifteen minutes, take 
out of the syrup, place on flat dishes and put them in 
the sun. Cook more fruit in the syrup ; continue until 
all have been boiled. Then begin with the first dish 
and reboil all the fruit until it is transparent, taking 
care to keep it firm. After reboiling let the apricots 
remain in the sun all day ; then the next morning make 
a fresh syrup, very thick, and boil the fruit a few 
minutes ; take out and put on dishes ; keep in the sun 
until dry. When dry, pack in boxes, with oiled paper 
between the layers. 

Peaches may be crystallized in the same way using 
the freestone peaches. 

To Preserve Dried Apricots 

Follow the directions for preserving dried peaches, 
using two pounds of sugar, instead of one and a half. 



PEACHES 

Preserves 

Select large clingstone peaches, white or yellow, 
almost ripe, but perfectly firm. Peel and cut into 
halves, pack in earthen jars, in layers with sugar, 
using one pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 27 

first, a layer of peaches, then of sugar until all is used ; 
cover and let stand from twelve to twenty-four hours. 
Pour off the syrup, and boil five minutes, then put in 
the peaches and boil until transparent. Take them out 
of the syrup, pack in jars and if the syrup is thin boil 
until there is just enough to cover the fruit. 

When ripe peaches are used the syrup should be 
made and well boiled before the peaches are put in, and 
the peaches should be preserved as soon as peeled. 

Peach Jam 

Pare, stone, and cut into thin slices half a peck of 
freestone peaches, and to each pound of fruit add three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar. Put them into a 
preserving kettle and let them cook until clear, which 
will probably require an hour. Then crack one-third 
of the peach-stones, remove the kernels, blanch them 
in boiling water, cut them into thin slices, and add to 
the peaches. This should be done as soon as fruit is 
set on the fire, so that the kernels can cook with it. 
When done, put into gjass jars. For use in small 
families the pint size is better than the quarts. 

Peach Leather 

Peel and remove the seed from very ripe, clearseed 
peaches; add half pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit; let stand a few minutes, to form a syrup, then 
boil until clear, stirring constantly. Spread half an 
inch thick on cloths and put in the hot sun to dry; 
cut into strips six inches wide, dust with pulverized 
sugar and roll up tight. Keep in a glass jar. 

Peach Marmalade 

Peel and boil in a little water, one peck of peaches. 
Let them boil all to pieces, then rub through a colander 
and add three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one pint 
of fruit. Boil until it is clear and a light red; stir 
constantly. When done put up in jars, covering with 
paper dipped in brandy or alcohol, just as one does 
jelly. Seal while hot and keep in a cool, dark place. 



28 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

To Conserve Peaches 

The best peaches for drying thus are soft peaches, 
perfectly ripe. Peel them carefully, cut in rather thin 
slices, and weigh them. To every pound of fruit, allow 
half pound of white sugar. Boil the sugar to a syrup, 
and when it is nearly done put in the peaches, part at a 
time, and simmer them for ten minutes. 

Remove from the syrup in flat dishes and set them 
in the sun, covered with gauze or muslin on frames. 
Eoil the syrup down thick, and every day pour over 
the peaches some of the syrup until it has all been 
absorbed and they are thoroughly dry. Then pack 
them away in jars, sprinkling sugar between each 
layer. 

Peach Jelly 

Peel half bushel of half ripe peaches (clearseed 
peaches are to be preferred). Put them in a porcelain 
kettle, cover with water, and let boil until thoroughly 
done. Then strain through a bag, measure the juice, 
add one pound of sugar to each pint and boil twenty 
or thirty minutes, or until jellied. 

Peach Pickle 

Always use good apple vinegar, not less than two 
years old. 

Select fruit that is almost ripe. A medium sized 
clingstone peach makes the best pickles. 

To make sour pickles, spice the vinegar and pour 
over the peaches cold. 

Always seal the jars with three layers of brown 
paper, put on with flour paste, when it is not convenient 
to use jars that are self-sealing. 

Sour Peach Pickle 

Peel the peaches and sprinkle lightly with salt. 
Let them remain one hour, then rinse quickly in clear 
water. Place in jars and pour over them good apple 
vinegar, with half teacup each of cloves and allspice 
to each gallon of pickle. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 29 

Pickled Peaches 

Choose sound peaches of medium size; brush them 
all over with a soft brush. Boil together six quarts of 
water and a pint of coarse salt, and skim it until it is 
clear; then cool it; the quantity may be increased or 
diminished to suit the quantity of peaches; but this 
proportion of salt and water must be observed. When 
the brine is cold, put the peaches into it and let stand 
for forty-eight hours. Then rinse them in cold water, 
dry them on a soft towel, and stick half a dozen cloves 
in each one. Boil and skim, till clear, as much vinegar 
as will cover the peaches, the quantity may be gauged 
by measuring the brine, allowing for each quart of 
vinegar, four blades of mace and quarter of an ounce of 
stick cinnamon. When the vinegar has boiled about 
fifteen minutes, put in the peaches and remove the 
preserving kettle containing them to the back of the 
fire, where its contents will not boil; let the peaches 
stand in the vinegar for five minutes, then place in 
jars, pour the vinegar over them and seal at once. 

Sweet Pickle Peaches, No. 1 

To make half gallon of peach pickle, take three 
teacupfuls of apple vinegar, the same of sugar, half 
teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice and mace. Boil 
the vinegar and let get thoroughly hot, enough peaches 
(pared) to fill the jar. When this is done, place in 
jars and seal. 

Sweet Pickle Peaches, No. 2 

Peel half bushel of clingstone peaches, almost ripe ; 
one gallon of good apple vinegar, eight pounds of sugar, 
half teacupful of cloves, and three sticks cinnamon. 
Boil the vinegar and spices together five minutes ; put 
in the peaches, let them get hot through, remove from 
fire and place in self-sealing jars, if convenient; if not, 
seal the jars with brown paper (three layers), and 
thick flour paste in which has been put several drops 
of carbolic acid. The latter drives away insects. 



30 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sweet Pickle Peaches, No. 3 

Peel the peaches ; stick in each, at intervals, half a 
dozen cloves ; place in jars and pour over them boiling 
vinegar, sweetened with one pound of sugar to each 
quart of vinegar. Seal when hot. 

Peach Mangoes 

Prepare a brine by boiling together six quarts of 
water and a pint of coarse salt, and skim it until it is 
clear; then cool it. The quantity may be increased 
to suit the number of peaches, but the proportion of 
salt and water must be observed. Choose fresh, sound 
peaches, brush them with soft brush, and lay them in 
the cold brine for three days. Then remove them 
from the brine ; cut a piece out of the top of each one 
and take out the stone without enlarging the top. For 
filling for two dozen large peaches, mix together two 
pounds of brown sugar, one onion, and a clove of garlic 
chopped fine, four ounces of grated horseradish and 
white mustard seed, one ounce of powdered cinnamon, 
and half an ounce each of ground cloves and mace. 
Use sufficient salad oil to moisten these ingredients. 
Fill the peaches with them ; close the cut with a piece 
of peach, and either sew or tie it in place. Put the 
stuffed peaches into glass jars, cover them with cold 
vinegar, pour two tablespoonfuls of salad oil in each 
jar and seal them air-tight. 

Sweet Pickle Peaches 

Peel ripe peaches and cover them with white sugar, 
using half a pound of sugar to each pound ,of peaches. 
Let them stand twelve hours ; pour off the juice, adding 
one pint of good vinegar to three pints of juice. Add 
to this three sticks of cinnamon, a tablespoonful each 
of cloves and allspice, and a few blades of mace. Boil 
this down until there is just enough to cover the 
peaches, and before taking from the fire, put the 
peaches in and let them boil until tender — not soft. 
Put in jars and cover well. 

Ripe pears may be pickled in the same way. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 31 
To Preserve Dried Peaches 

Get the large yellow peaches that have been cut in 
half and dried with the peeling on ; wash them carefully. 
Take two pounds of the peaches and soak in half 
gallon of clear cold water twenty-four hours, when the 
peeling will slip off with little trouble. After peeling 
them in this way, take two teacupfuls of the water in 
which they were soaked, and one and a half pounds of 
sugar, place in a granite pan and cook until the peaches 
are clear and the syrup as thick as desired. 

Brandy Peaches, No. 1 

One peck of peaches, five pounds of sugar, one quart 
of brandy. Put the peaches into boiling water, let 
them remain three or four minutes ; then take out and 
plunge into cold water ; rub them smooth with a coarse 
cloth. Make a syrup of the sugar, using one pint of 
water to two pounds of sugar; let come to a boil, put 
in the peaches and let them heat through, take them 
out, add the brandy to the syrup and boil twenty 
minutes. Pour the hot syrup over the peaches and 
seal. Ready for use in two months. 

Brandy Peaches, No. 2 

Take large white Enghsh peaches, ripe and firm. 
Make a strong soda water and let it boil. While boiling 
put the peaches in, three or four at a time and let them 
stay until the skin will come off when rubbed with a 
coarse towel. When the skin has been removed in this 
way put the peaches in cold water. Make a syrup by 
dissolving in water three-quarters of a pound for each 
pound of fruit; when boiling, put the peaches in and 
let them get thoroughly hot. Take them out and 
continue to boil the syrup until it is quite thick, then 
pour it off and keep well covered. Put the peaches in 
jars, cover with peach brandy and let them stand 
twelve hours. Pour off the brandy, mix with the 
syrup, pour over the peaches, and seal. 



32 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sweet Pickle, Peach or Pear 

The fruit should be peeled and laid over night in 
the vinegar, in which is mixed the sugar and spice, in 
proportion of three pounds of sugar and half teacupful 
of spices to one quart of vinegar. Put in a kettle and 
let come to a boil, skimming out the spice before putting 
on the stove. Then for two mornings pour off the 
vinegar, boil and pour over the fruit again. Put in 
jars and seal. 

Sugared Peaches 

Peel ripe chngstone peaches, place in jar, using 
sugar between each layer until the jar is full; then 
seal and keep in a cool place. These will be ready for 
use when the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. 

Peach Syrup 

Boil peaches, after peeling them, in water enough 
to cover; when they are tender strain off the juice and 
add one pint of sugar to two pints of juice. Let it 
boil from ten to fifteen minutes, skimming carefully 
while it boils. Then bottle and seal while hot. 

Quinces, pears, plums, and any of the berries may 
be made into the syrup in the same way. 

To Can Peaches 

Select ripe, firm peaches; peel, cut from the seed 
and place in self^sealing jars; cover with water until 
the jars are all filled and ready to place on the fire. 
Then pour off the water, add one cup of sugar to each 
half gallon of fruit, fill the jars with water, put on the 
rubbers and tops loosely and place the jars in a large 
lard can, with folded cloth or false bottom in it. Fill 
the can nearly to the top of the jars with cold water 
and place on the fire. Let the water in can boil for 
three minutes, remove from the fire, tighten tops and 
let them cool; then tighten again. They should be 
examined the next day after and if necessary again 
tighten. Then put away in a cool, dark place. A cellar 
is best. Pears, quinces, apples, plums and tomatoes 
are canned in the same way. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 33 

To Can Peaches in Tin 

Peel ripe peaches, either clingstone or freestone, 
cutting them in half and removing the seed. Place in 
vessels and sprinkle with sugar, using a quarter of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit ; let them stand 
until there is nearly enough juice to cover; then place 
the fruit in tin cans, pour in the juice to within half an 
inch of top of can, then solder on the tops, leaving a 
small hole in the top open. Stand them in boiling 
water — which comes nearly to the tops of the cans — 
when the fruit is boiling hot, take from the water, tip 
the cans — that is, fill the small hole in the top with 
solder. Return the cans to water and let boil three 
minutes. If any can is not well sealed the juice will 
boil out at the opening ; these should be sealed and the 
can returned to the boiling water. Each can must be 
air-tight. This is the easiest, cheapest and safest way 
of canning peaches, and is superior to those canned 
with water in them. 



PEARS 

Pear Preserves 

Gather the pears when they are full grown, but 
not too ripe. If small, peel and core them, leaving the 
stem on. If large, peel and cut in quarters. Place in 
kettle, cover with water, and boil until they can be 
pierced wjth a straw. Drain well, pack in jars, with 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of 
pears. Let stand twelve hours. Drain off the juice, 
boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, skimming well. 
Then put the pears in and boil until transparent, take 
them out, sun for two or three hours ; then pack in 
jars, and pour the juice over them. Seal and keep in a 
cool, dark place. 

To Can Pears 

Use recipe for canning peaches. 



34 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Pear Jelly 

Take half ripe pears, peel and cut them in slices, 
without removing the core. Keep them in clear water 
until all are cut; drain off the water, place in kettle, 
cover with clear water, cover and boil until quite 
tender; then drain off the juice, strain through a flannel 
bag, place on the fire, and boil ten or fifteen minutes. 
Measure, and add one pound of sugar to one pint of 
juice. Boil for thirty minutes, or until it jellies, which 
may be in less time. 

Pear Chips 

Cut the pears, after peeling and coring, into strips 
an eighth of an inch thick, then into squares. Boil 
them three or four minutes in clear water. Drain 
them and pack in sugar; using three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Let stand 
until the sugar melts, then boil until the syrup is thick. 
These make very pretty preserves, when put up in the 
syrup, and are very nice When dried on dishes in the 
sun, and packed, first sprinkling them with powdered 
sugar. Quinces may be prepared in the same way. 

Pear Sweet Pickles 

Peel, core and quarter the pears. Boil until tender 
in clear water. For half gallon of pears take one quart 
of apple vinegar, two teacupf uls of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful each of whole cloves and mace. When boiling, put 
the pears in and let them remain two or three minutes ; 
then place them in jars. Boil the vinegar until there 
is just enough to cover the pears ; pour over them and 
seal. 



QUINCES 



Quince Preserves 

Gather the quinces when ripe. Peel, core and 
quarter them. Boil in clear water until tender, drain 
and pack in an earthen vessel, using three-quarters of 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 35 

a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Let stand 
twelve hours; then boil until the quinces are clear. 
Put them in jars, boil the syrup until there is just 
enough to cover the quinces, pour over them, seal and 
keep in a cool place. 

Quince Jelly 

Wash the quinces and rub them well with a rough 
cloth. Cut them in quarter pieces, keeping them in 
water until all are ready ; drain off the water, put them 
in the kettle, cover with fresh water. Let them boil 
until very tender. Strain off the juice; add one cup 
and a half of white sugar to two cupfuls of juice. Let 
boil rapidly for twenty or thirty minutes. Have the 
molds dry, fill as quickly as possible without breaking 
the molds by heating too fast. Let cool, cover with 
paper dipped in alcohol and put on the tops. 

Quince Marmalade 

Peel, core and cut the quinces ; boil them until very 
tender, in just enough water to cover; strain the juice 
and add to it half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit; return to the fire, rub the quince through a 
colander, or mash very smooth with a wooden or silver 
spoon. Put in the syrup, and let it boil until thick 
and clear. Spices may be added to this if desired. 
Cover over the top with letter paper dipped in brandy 
before sealing. 

Crystallized Quinces 

Take nice, firm pieces out of the preserve syrup 
after the preserves have been made a few weeks, wash 
all the syrup off, and place the quinces in the sun for 
two days ; then make a syrup of one pound of sugar 
and one teacupful of water; let it boil until it almost 
candies, drop in a few pieces of quince at a time and 
let them boil two or three minutes ; take out and place 
in the sun on flat dishes. Continue until all the syrup 
is used. Pack in boxes with layers of oiled paper 
between. 



36 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Quince Leather 

Peel, core and cut the quinces as for preserving. 
Place in a kettle and let them boil until they can be 
pierced with a straw ; not too tender. Take them out 
on a dish to drain and cool. Strain a part of the water 
the quinces were boiled in and add to it half a pound of 
sugar for each pound of the quinces. Place this on the 
fire and let boil fifteen or twenty minutes. While it is 
boiling slice the quinces in very thin strips. Drop 
them in the syrup and let it boil slowly until quite thick. 
Have ready cloths stretched on boards, or large flat 
dishes. When the fruit is almost cold spread out on 
cloths or dishes, smooth over and place in the sun 
until dry. Then cut in six-inch strips, sprinkle with 
pulverized sugar, roll very tight, pack in jars and keep 
well covered ; when ready to use, cut in half-inch blocks 
with a sharp knife. Pears can be used in the same 
way. 

MAYPOPS 

Gather the Maypops when very green; take off a 
thin peeling, cut in halves, and take out the seed. Drop 
them in lime water, made in the proportion of one 
teacupf ul of lime to one gallon of water ; let them stand 
twelve hours. Boil them fifteen minutes in weak alum 
water, then boil in fresh water until they are clear. 
Take them out, drain well, and pack in granulated 
sugar, using three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one 
pound of fruit. Let them remain twelve hours; then 
boil twenty minutes; flavor strongly with ginger or 
extract of lemon. If ginger is used, boil the root with 
the preserves. When done, put in jars and seal. These 
may be dried and crystallized just as are apricots and 
quinces. 

Maypop Jelly 

Use the seed and pulp of ripe Maypops. Boil them 
fifteen minutes and strain; add one pint of sugar to 
one of juice, and boil twenty-five or thirty minutes, or 
until it jellies. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 37 

WATERMELON 

Watermelon Preserves 

Take a small, long melon, slice it round in half inch 
slices, pare, place in a large earthen bowl and cover 
with brine, using one teacupful of salt to three quarts 
of water. Let it stand twelve hours, drain and cover 
with fresh water and let it remain until the salt is 
well out. Then soak in alum water until firm, using a 
teaspoonful of pulverized alum to one gallon of water. 
Take from the alum water and boil in fresh water until 
the rind is clear and the alum is well out of the melon. 
Drain and pack in white sugar, using one pound of 
sugar to each pound of melon. After the syrup is 
formed, return to the kettle, slice two lemons to each 
gallon, and boil until the melon is clear and the syrup 
thick ; cover well and keep in a cool place. The meat 
of the melon will be a darker red than the natural color, 
but quite pretty. Leave the seed in. 

To preserve the rind of melon, peel and take out the 
meat close ; cut in any shape or size desired. Place in 
lime water using a half pint of lime to each gallon of 
water to be used ; let the lime settle and drain off the 
water before putting in the rind. Let it stand twelve 
hours, then boil it in very weak alum water. Drain, 
cover with fresh water, and boil until the alum is all 
out and the rind is clear. 

The water will have to be changed if much alum has 
been used, as it must be well out of the rind before 
preserving. When fresh, drain well, pack in white 
sugar, using one pound of sugar to each pound of rind. 
Let it remain in sugar twelve hours, then boil until the 
rind is clear. If the syrup is too thick add a little 
water ; flavor with anything desired. If ginger is pre- 
ferred, make a strong tea, strain and boil the rind in it 
before packing in the sugar. 

To Pickle Watermelons 

Cut the rinds in small pieces, peel, take out the 
meat and pack in brine until ready for use. Take from 



38 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

the brine and soak in clear water until fresh, then boil 
in weak alum water until perfectly firm, then boil in 
fresh water until the alum is out and the rinds are 
clear. Drain them well and place in jars. Make a 
pickle of one quart of good apple vinegar, half ounce of 
whole cloves, the same of mace and two pounds of 
sugar; boil five minutes, pour over the rind and seal. 
This is for a half gallon of rind. 

Green cantaloupes and pumpkins may be pickled in 
the same way. Sour pickles may be made by using 
the vinegar cold and not using any sugar. 



CANTALOUPES 

To Preserve Cantaloupes or Musk Melon 

Gather the melons nearly grown, but perfectly 
green; slice them, take out the seed and peel. Drop 
them in weak lime or alum water for twelve hours, or 
until perfectly firm. Then soak in clear water until 
fresh. Boil until clear in ginger tea, using the white 
ginger. Then pack in white sugar and let them remain 
until the sugar dissolves. Boil until transparent and 
the syrup is thick. Put in jars and seal. 

To Crystallize Cantaloupes 

Take young cantaloupes, after the seed are well 
formed. Slice, peel, and take out the inside. Put them 
in weak brine, or lime water, for twenty-four hours; 
then soak them until fresh, in cold water. If salt water 
is used instead of lime water, the rinds will have to 
be soaked in weak alum water until brittle. Soak them 
in cold water until the alum is out of the rinds. Have 
ready a tea made of white ginger, or whatever spice 
flavor is preferred; boil the rind in this until it is 
tender ; take it out of the tea, and drain on a cloth for 
a few minutes; then pack it in sugar, using three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of rind. 
Let it stand well covered until the sugar is dissolved, 
then boil until the syrup is thick. Put in jars, and in a 
day or two, boil it again. If, at the last boiling, the 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK S9 

syrup will not cover the rinds, boil half of the canta- 
loupe for half an hour ; then spread on dishes and set in 
the sun ; and boil the other rind in the same way. In a 
few days make a fresh syrup, just enough to boil a 
few of the rinds at a time; as these are taken out, 
spread on dishes and set in the sun, place the other 
rinds in the sj'-rup to boil, then in the sun to dry. Pro- 
ceed in this way until all the rinds have been through 
the syrup. Dry them thoroughly in the sun, then pack,, 
with oiled paper between each layer. This is nice to 
use in fruit cake in place of citron. 

Pumpkin Chips 

Cut ripe pumpkin into one inch strips, peel and cut 
out the soft part next to the seed. Then chip into 
thin squares. Let stand in salt water over night; 
drain and boil in weak alum water for twenty minutes. 
Then soak in fresh water twenty^four hours. Drain 
and pack in white sugar, three-quarters of a pound to 
a pound of pumpkin. Slice a lemon into each half 
gallon when adding the sugar. Let it stand until the 
sugar is dissolved, then boil with the lemon in it until 
the pumpkin is clear. Place in jars and seal. This 
retains the natural color and is very nice. 



FIGS 



Fig Preserves 

Take figs nearly ripe; pour over them boiling hot,, 
weak lye, or use lime water; let them remain in it for 
half an hour, then drain, and rub the figs off with a 
coarse towel. Put them in clear water, and boil ten 
or fifteen minutes, or until tender; place them in a 
colander to drain for fifteen minutes ; then pack them 
in sugar, using three-quarters of a pound to one pound 
of figs ; let them remain over night, then boil until the 
figs are transparent ; place in jars, boil the syrup until 
there is just enough to cover the figs; pour over them 
and seal while hot. 



40 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

To Dry Figs 

Select figs that are just ripe. Have ready some 
boiling weak lye, or lime water. Fill a perforated ladle 
with figs, and dip in the hot lye, or lime water; let them 
remain for a minute, then drain carefully, or dry with 
a cloth. Proceed then with as many figs as are to be 
dried. Have ready a well cooked but rather thin syrup 
of white sugar. Into this put figs enough to cover the 
surface and let them cook gently for fifteen minutes. 
Take out, drain, put on dishes and put more figs in the 
syrup. When all have been cooked and drained, set the 
dishes out in the sun to dry, covering them with wire 
gauze, or covers made of netting, to protect them from 
insects. Keep them in the sunshine every day until 
they are thoroughly dried. Pack in jars and keep well 
covered. 

Another Way to Dry Figs 

Take quite ripe, but fresh figs; dip them in weak 
boiling lye one minute, and drain. Boil them in clear 
water until very tender; drain off the water and mash 
the figs with a wooden spoon. Add half a pound of 
white sugar to each pound of figs ; cook this until it is 
a thick paste. Have large dishes, or cloth stretched 
on flat boards, and spread the fruit on them, a third 
of an inch thick; smooth over the surface and set in 
the sun to dry. When dry, cut in strips six inches wide 
and ten or twelve long, sprinkle with sugar, and roll 
very light. Pack in jars. Serve cut in half inch 
blocks. 

Sweet Pickled Figs 

Take figs nearly ripe ; dip them in weak, hot lye one 
minute, and dry them. For each half gallon of figs, 
have ready one quart of apple vinegar, with two tea- 
cupfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful each of cloves and 
mace. Put the figs in and boil five or ten minutes; 
then take them out and place in jars. Boil the vinegar 
until there is just enough to cover the figs ; pour over 
them, seal while hot, and put away in a cool, dark place. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 41 

Fig Preserves 

Gather figs with the stems on, before they are quite 
ripe. Wash and weigh them. Boil in clear water until 
tender enough to pierce with a straw; take from the 
water; for every pound of figs take three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar and make a syrup. Put the figs in and 
cook until transparent. Flavor with cinnamon, ginger 
or lemon. 

Crystallized Figs 

Take firm, preserved figs that have not been broken 
and that have the stems on them ; take out the syrup, 
and drain. Make a syrup of white sugar and water 
enough to dissolve the sugar well; let it boil a few 
minutes. Drop in enough figs to cover the surface; 
let them boil two or three minutes ; take out with a wire 
dipper or strainer, and place on large, flat dishes. 
Continue this until all the figs have been boiled. Place 
the dishes in the sun until the figs are perfectly dry. 
Place in boxes, with oiled paper between each layer. 



SCUPPERNONGS 

Scuppernong Wine, No. 1 

Gather very ripe grapes. Press the juice from 
them at once. Use one and a half pounds of sugar to 
each gallon of juice. Put in a vessel, and keep it full 
enough to let the scum run off four or five days. When 
fermenting, keep vessels full, as directed in making 
grape wine. Then stop it loosely. Allow to stand five 
days or more, after which cork and keep in a cool, dark 
place for three months ; bottle and seal. 

To make dry, omit the sugar. 

Scuppernong Wine, No. 2 

When the grapes are not thoroughly ripe, pour over 
them boiling water, and let them stand twelve hours. 
Press the juice from them. Two pounds of sugar are 
required when water is added. Then proceed as in 
foregoing recipe. 



42 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Scuppernang Wine, No. 3 

Place the grapes in a covered vessel, and let them 
stand twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Then draw 
off the juice and sweeten with one and a half pounds 
of sugar to one gallon of juice. Keep the vessel full 
enough, for five days, for the scum to flow from it. 
Cork at the end of ten days. 

Scuppernong Wine, No. 4 

Mash the grapes; pour quart of boiling water to 
a gallon of fruit; let it stand twenty-four hours. 
Strain it into a jar, and add three pounds of sugar to 
one gallon of the juice. Let it stand again twenty-four 
hours, then skim and strain. Then put in jugs, putting 
thin muslin cloth over the mouth. Let stand six or 
eight weeks, strain through a flannel bag, bottle and 
cork tightly, and it will soon be ready for use. 

Scuppernong Catsup 

Pulp and then measure one gallon of ripe scupper- 
nongs; place over the fire in a granite vessel. When 
hot the seed will rise to the top. Turn into a sieve, if 
necessary, rub the pulp through with a silver or wooden 
spoon. To this quantity of pulp add two teacupfuls of 
vinegar, two of sugar, heaping teaspoonful of salt, level 
teaspoonful each of ground allspice, cinnamon, cloves, 
and black pepper. Boil slovdy until thick, stirring 
frequently ; then bottle and seal. 

Scuppernong Jelly, No. 1 

Boil ripe, or nearly ripe scuppernongs, with nearly 
enough water to cover, until very tender, then strain 
through a jelly bag, measure the juice, and add the 
same measure of white sugar ; boil until it will congeal 
when dropped on a cold, dry surface. 

Scuppernong Jelly, No. 2 

Take the pulp and juice of half ripe scuppernongs. 
Boil a few minutes and strain through a flannel bag. 
Add one pound of white sugar to each pint of juice 
and boil until jellied. It will take from twenty to 
thirty minutes. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 43 

Preserved Hulls of Scuppemongs 

Take the hulls, after using the pulp, and boil them 
in enough water to cover, until thej^ are tender. Pour 
off half the water and add one and a half pounds of 
sugar to each pint of hulls ; boil until the syrup is quite 
thick and put in jars. 

Use the hulls in the same way, with one pound of 
sugar to each pint of the hulls and leave all the water 
they are boiled in. Seal while hot. Some prefer these 
to those having more sugar. 

To Preserve Scuppernong Pulps 

Take half ripe scuppemongs between the thumb 
and forefinger and press the pulp into an earthen vessel ; 
continue until the desired amount of pulp is ready. 
Then press the seed from the pulp in the same way. 
When the seed have been removed, put the pulp in a 
kettle, with just enough water to cover and boil two 
or three minutes. Add one and a half pounds of sugar 
to each pint of pulp and boil twenty minutes, or until 
the syrup is thick. 

If the pulps are put in their strained juice and one 
pound of sugar added for each pint of juice and boiled 
for fifteen or twenty minutes, they will make a firm 
jelly that is nice to serve with whipped cream. 



GRAPES 

Grape Wine 

Pick the ripe grapes from stem, mash and strain 
out the juice; to each gallon of juice add one and a half 
pounds of white sugar; let stand four or five days, 
keeping the vessel full enough to overflow. Stop the 
vessel loosely for a few days, then cork and keep in a 
cool place for five months, when it will be ready to 
bottle and seal. 

Dry wine may be made in this way by omitting the 
sugar. 



44 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK "' 

Unfermented Wine 

The grapes should be picked when perfectly ripe, 
and the juice extracted and bottled as soon afterwards 
as possible.. The bottles are filled brim full, and placed 
up to their necks in hot water within ten degrees of 
boiling point. When the juice is as hot as the water, 
the cork is forced into the bottle, expelling a portion 
of the liquid. If the least portion of air is left between 
the cork and the liquid the oxygen contained in the air 
will set the saccharine matter in the wine in motion and 
fermentation will ensue. When the cork is forced into 
the bottles the liquid is in a state of expiration from the 
heat ; as it cools it contracts, leaving a vacuum between 
the cork and the liquid; but the vacuum must not be 
an atmospheric chamber. The cork of course must be 
thoroughly air-tight. If fermentation does set in, it 
may be stopped by reheating the >vine. The bottles 
are laid on their sides, in a cool place. ' After several 
months, when the wine has become clear, drain oft' and 
re-bottle. The bottles should be brim full, and should 
again be set in vats of hot water heated up to the same 
degree, and corked precisely in the same manner as at 
first, using sealing wax to exclude the air; keep in a 
cool place. It is ready for use as soon as bottled the 
second time, and will keep in a cool cellar. 

Grape Jelly 

Boil until quite tender, green grapes in just enough 
water to cover. Strain and boil the juice ten or fifteen 
minutes; measure and add one pound of sugar to one 
pint of juice. Boil from twenty to thirty minutes, put 
in jelly molds and cover when cold, first fitting a piece 
of writing paper dipped in alcohol over the jelly. This 
is good with turkey and other meats. 

Light Grape Wine 

Pick the ripe grapes from the stem, mash them well 
and strain through a strong bag; measure the juice and 
add one quart of cold water to three quarts of juice. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 45 

Sweeten with two pounds of white sugar to each gallon 
of juice, after the water is added. Keep the vessel 
well filled as with other wines for four or five days, 
that the scum may run off, then cover with a cloth for 
five days, when it will be ready to cork. Keep in a 
cool place three or four months, then bottle. 

Grape Catsup 

Take the pulp of scuppernongs or muscadines, and 
boil them until they can be rubbed through a sieve; 
then to each quart of the pulp add a half teacupf ul each 
of sugar and good apple vinegar, half teaspoonful of 
salt, ground cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Boil this 
slowly for one hour and bottle. 

Grapes for Winter Use 

Pick ripe grapes from the stem ; wash, put in a ket- 
tle and cover with water. Boil until the seed loosen ; 
stir them, and as the seed come to the top skim them 
off. When tender add two and a half pounds of sugar 
to a half gallon of grapes ; boil for half an hour, put in 
jars and seal while hot. 



ORANGES 

Orange Preserves 

To preserve oranges whole, cut a place out of one 
end large enough to take the pulps all out with a tea^ 
spoon. Then place the rinds in brine for twenty-four 
hours; then soak them in water until fresh; soak in 
alum water one night, and boil in clear water until ten- 
der. Don't boil many at a time, for fear of breaking or 
mashing them. Drain them on a cloth, place in jars. 
Make syrup of one pound of fruit; let it boil ten 
minutes, pour over the fruit and let it stand twenty-four 
hours. Then pour oranges and syrup into a kettle, boil 
for haflf an hour, put in jars, boil the syrup until there 
is just enough to cover the oranges, pour over them and 
seal. 



46 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Orange Marmalade, No. 1 

Six oranges, four lemons. Slice as thin as possible, 
and take out the seed. To each pound of sliced fruit 
add three pints of cold water, and let stand twenty-four 
hours. Then boil three-quarters of an hour and let 
stand twenty-four hours. Then weigh, and to every 
pound of sliced fruit and water, add one and one-quarter 
pounds of sugar, and boil until clear, and it forms a 
jelly. About three-quarters of an hour will do. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 2 
Chop the rind of one or two oranges fine; boil in 
clear water until tender; take it out of the water and 
add to the pulp from the oranges used in the foregoing 
recipe. Take out the seed from the pulp, add one 
pound of white sugar and a half teacupful of water to 
each pound of fruit. Mix well and place on the fire. 
Boil until thick and clear, stirring constantly to keep it 
from burning. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 3 

Two dozen oranges, one dozen lemons. Taking a 
sharp knife, slice the fruit across, rind and all, very 
thinly, rejecting the seeds, and cut each slice in four 
quarters. Put all to soak twenty^four hours in six 
quarts of cold water ; then put on the fire, in the same 
water, and boil at least two hours. Then add sixteen 
pounds of white sugar and simmer gently for one hour 
longer, watching that it does not scorch. This recipe 
does not call for bitter oranges; if the marmalade is 
desired more bitter, boil the seed in a little water and 
add the liquor to the rest. 

Orange Jelly 

Boil the pulp and juice of six oranges, with six large 
apples and one pint of water, until the apples are 
tender; strain in a flannel bag, add one cup of sugar 
to each cup of juice and boil until jellied. The apples 
will not affect the flavor of the jelly. Lemons may be 
used in the same way as oranges for preserves and 
jelly. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 47 

Orange Flower Syrup 

Select and wash, without bruising, one pint of the 
white petals of the orange flower. Any other part of 
the flower will make the syrup bitter. Put the petals, 
after washing, to drain on a towel. While they drain, 
prepare a syrup of granulated sugar and water; let it 
boil ten minutes, skim and drop in the petals ; simmer 
for two or three minutes, stir gently, strain and bottle ; 
seal while hot. 

Orange Wine 

One pint of sour orange juice to a gallon of water, 
with two and three-quarter pounds of sugar to a gallon 
of the mixture. Place in jars or jugs, filling to the 
brim; reserve enough of the mixture (in a bottle) to 
fill the jars every morning, so that in fermenting the 
scum may boil off. Let ferment about three weeks, 
or until it becomes clear ; drain off carefully and add a 
quarter of a pound of sugar to each gallon. Pour back 
into jars, let ferment again for six or eight weeks, 
then if fermentation has ceased, drain, strain through 
a bag and bottle. 



COCOANUTS 

Cocoanuts to be grated should have the milk drained 
out and be allowed to dry several hours before they are 
broken. Then break the hull, take out in as large 
pieces as possible, peel off the dark skin, grate, place on 
a cloth laid on a waiter or a large flat dish, sprinkle 
with sugar and dry in the sun. It may be dried in the 
stove if the stove is only warm. Wlien perfectly dry, 
put in a self-sealing jar, being careful that the rubber 
is good. Seal, wrap in brown paper and keep in a dry 
place. Cocoanut prepared in this way will keep well 
and is always ready for use in cooking. For cake it is 
best to have it dry ; for puddings or custards it may be 



48 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

covered with fresh sweet milk, placed over a slow fire 
and allowed to stand twenty or thirty minutes; drain 
off the milk and use as one would fresh cocoanut 
grated. 



TOMATOES 

Green tomatoes are best for pickling and preserving 
early in the spring and late in the fall. If used in the 
warm months they should be gathered just after a rain. 
Otherwise the skin will be tough. If preferred, pee] 
the tomatoes carefully with a sharp knife. 

Green Tomato Preserves 

Select large, round, smooth tomatoes. Cut in 
slices, sprinkle with salt and let stand over night. In 
the morning drain off the salt water and cover with 
fresh water. Soak until fresh, changing the water 
when necessary. Now boil in alum water (using a 
porcelain kettle, or a very bright brass one) until they 
are firm ; then boil in fresh water until free from alum 
and the tomatoes are clear. This will take half an 
hour. Make the syrup of one pound of sugar to each 
pound of tomatoes, using one pint of water to two 
pounds of sugar. Boil the syrup for five minutes. 
Drain the tomatoes thoroughly, drop into the syrup 
and let them boil for half an hour. Flavor with ginger 
or cloves and a sliced lemon. This preserve is very 
pretty and when well made and seasoned is good. 

French Pickles 

' Two quarts of sliced green tomatoes, one sliced 
onion, one of cucumbers, sliced and peeled, one small 
cabbage cut fine. Place in a vessel with layers of salt ; 
one teacupful will be sufficient. Let stand twenty-four 
Hours ; then drain and add celery seed, black and white 
mustard seed, turmeric, allspice and cloves, one table- 
spoonful of each, and one tea spoonful of black pepper, 
one pound of brown su^rar, and a gallon of good apple 
v5negar. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 49 
Green Tomato Pickle, No. 1 

Slice the green tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and let 
them stand an hour. Pour off the salt water and boil 
in alum water until firm and clear, using one teaspoonf ul 
of pulverized alum to three pints of water. Now re- 
move from the alum water and soak for twelve hours in 
fresh water. Drain, place in jars with two or three 
pods of pepper to each half gallon. Cover with good 
apple vinegar, spiced with a teaspoonful of cloves and 
the same of allspice. 

For sweet pickle prepare in the same way, adding 
one pint of sugar to a quart of vinegar, boiling the 
sugar and vinegar together before pouring over the 
tomatoes. Seal while hot. 

Green Tomato Pickle, No. 2 

Take large, green tomatoes and cut in slices; add 
half as many sliced onions, sprinkle with salt and let 
stand six hours. Pour off the juice and season the 
tomatoes with black pepper, mustard seed and a very 
little sugar. Cover with good apple vinegar, let it 
cook slowly for half an hour, put in a jar and seal. 

Green Tomato Pickle, No. 3 

Wash twenty-four even-sized green tomatoes ; cut a 
slice from the blossom end, and with a sharp teaspoon 
remove the meat ; put the slice cut from the top, inside 
the tomato, to be used for a cap. Wash carefully and 
chip fine two heads of celery, four bell peppers, and 
two onions, and peel and cut into small cubes, three 
cucumbers. 

Mix these with the meat of the tomato, chopped, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful of 
celery seed, and one of mustard seed. Pack in a jar 
and set way for twenty-four hours, putting the tomato 
shells in weak vinegar for the same length of time. 
Then drain the tomatoes and fill with the chopped 
vegetables, and pack in jars. To two quarts of apple 
vinegar add three teacupfuls of sugar, one tablespoon- 



50 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

ful of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of cloves, one of 
mace, and one of ginger. Let boil up well, then skim. 
When cold, strain and pour over the tomatoes, and seal. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle 

Peel medium sized tomatoes; place in a porcelain 
kettle. To each half gallon of tomatoes, add two and a 
half pounds of sugar, one pint of good vinegar, two 
sticks of cinnamon, one teaspoonf ul each of whole cloves 
and spice and a few blades of mace. Place on the back 
of the stove and let simmer until the tomatoes are clear. 
It will take several hours. Be careful not to let them 
burn. Put in jars and keep well covered. 

Ripe Tomato Sweet Pickle 

Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes and remove 
the skins. Place them in jars, cover with apple vinegar 
and let them remain three days. Take out of the vine- 
gar, put in a preserving kettle ; add three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of tomatoes; add tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and mace, 
not ground; let boil several hours until the tomatoes 
are clear, then seal. 

Ripe Tomato Preserves 

Peel ripe, firm tomatoes ; make a syrup of one pound 
of white sugar to each pound of tomatoes. Boil a few 
minutes and put the tomatoes in; let them boil until 
transparent and the syrup is thick ; then put in jars. 

Another Tomato Sauce 

Take half gallon each of green tomatoes and cab- 
bage, one quart of onions, six pods of green bell pepper; 
chop all fine and add half a teacupful of mustard and 
celery seed mixed, one teaspoonful each of ground 
cinnamon, allspice and ginger ; one teacupful of grated 
horseradish, and two pounds of sugar. Put in a 
porcelain kettle, cover with good apple vinegar and boil 
slowly until the tomatoes are tender. Then bottle and 
seal. This is good with cold meats. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 51 
Green Tomato Sauce 

Slice half gallon of tomatoes, boil in ginger tea until 
tender. Drain and add two pounds of sugar, one 
teaspoonful each of ground allspice and cinnamon, to 
each pint of vinegar. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes; 
bottle and seal. 

Tomato Jelly- 
Boil in one cup of water one can of tomatoes, three 
blades of celery, one onion, three cloves, salt and 
paprika to taste. After boiling half hour, strain and 
add three-quarters of a box of gelatin, that has been 
dissolved. Pour in individual molds, put in a cool 
place to congeal and serve on lettuce leaf. 

Tomato Catsup, No. 1 

Wash and mash half bushel of ripe tomatoes ; small 
tomatoes are best. Place in a porcelain kettle, with 
two tablespoonfuls of salt, twelve pods of red pepper 
and a half dozen onions, sliced. Let this boil rapidly 
for thirty minutes, or until the tomatoes are tender. 
Remove from the fire and let them cool; then rub 
through a sieve and return to the fire, stirring con- 
stantly to keep from burning. Then add one quart of 
good apple vinegar and more salt, if needed. Boil 
fifteen minutes, bottle, seal and keep in a cool place. 

Tomato Catsup, No. 2 

Wash and mash half bushel of ripe tomatoes. 
Place in a kettle, with two tablespoonfuls of salt. Boil 
until tender ; let cool and strain through a sieve. Take 
half gallon of the thin juice, add two pounds of sugar, 
one teaspoonful each of whole cloves and black pepper, 
six blades of mace, two or three pieces of cinnamon 
and a root or two of ginger. Let this boil until it is 
well flavored with the spices, then strain, mix with the 
other juice and boil until thick. Add one quart of 
apple vinegar, boil fifteen minutes, bottle and seal. 



62 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Tomato Catsup, No. 3 

Wash, mash and boil until tender, with two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, half bushel of ripe tomatoes ; let them 
cool, then rub throug^h a sieve; return to the fire and 
boil until thick ; then add half ounce each of ground 
cloves, cinnamon and black pepper, three pounds of 
sugar and one quart of apple vinegar; let boil for 
fifteen minutes, bottle and seal. Using ground spice 
in the catsup will make it dark. Water should never 
be used with tomatoes in making catsup. If tomatoes 
are sufficiently mashed water will not be needed. 



PINEAPPLES 

Pineapple Preserves 

Cut the fruit in slices half an inch thick, then peel 
carefully; do not cut out the eyes. Weigh, put in a 
porcelain kettle, and cover with cold water. Boil until 
they may be easily pierced with a fork. Remove from 
the fire, and put the fruit in a bowl or vessel in which 
it may be kept over night. Make a syrup of one pound 
of sugar and one pint of the water in which the fruit 
was cooked, for every pound of pineapple. Boil ten 
minutes, then pour off the syrup, and "boil until it 
begins to thicken. Pour it over the fruit, and seal 
while hot. 

Pineapple Preserved with Apple 

Chop fine two large pineapples, boil until tender in 
just enough water to cover; then add one and a half 
pounds of sugar to each pound of pineapple. Let boil 
ten minutes. Peel and cut into them twelve medium- 
sized firm apples. Cook until the apples are clear and 
seal while hot. These are nice served with whipped 
cream, put between cake for short cake, or to make 
pies. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 53 



PICKLES, CATSUPS AND SAUCES 

Cucumbers 

Cucumbers for pickling are best gathered when 
small, from two to three inches long. Keep them for 
twenty-four hours after they are gathered before put- 
ting them in brine, as the water from fresh cucumbers 
will weaken the brine, and more salt will have to be 
added every time with the cucumbers. Boiled brine is 
best. Make it strong enough to bear up an egg. After 
the brine has boiled, and been well skimmed,. pour into 
a jar or barrel and always have enough to cover the 
cucumbers ; keep a cloth over them. Cucumbers may 
be added at any time to this brine. When the vessel is 
full, see that they are well covered with the cloth, and 
keep a weight upon them. Hot water with soda, in the 
proportion of a heaping tablespoonful to one gallon of 
water, poured over the cucumbers just before they are 
put in brine, will make them retain their natural color. 
If cucumbers are scalded in a brass kettle after being 
taken from the brine, this is unnecessary, as they will 
be sufficiently green. Cucumbers may also be pre- 
served by packing in salt. Cover the bottom of the ves- 
sel to be used with salt ; then place a layer of cucumbers, 
then salt. Continue this until the vessel is full. Fresh 
cucumbers may be added at any time, but must always 
be covered with salt. Put up in this way they should 
be packed in salt as soon as gathered. It will require 
three or four days to soak cucumbers out of the brine 
or salt fresh enough to make pickle. The water should 
be changed every day. When the fresh water is put 
to the cucumbers, add one heaping teaspoonful of pul- 
verized alum and cover with fresh water. Adding the 
alum will make the cucumbers very firm and will inter- 
fere in no way with taking out the salt. It will require 
only half the time to soak the salt out of cucumbers that 
are cut in small pieces. 



54 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

Select one dozen large, green cucumbers ; cut a small 
piece from one end and remove the seed with a teaspoon. 
Put in strong salt water and let remain over night. 
Then chop very fine six heads of celery, six green to- 
matoes, one small cabbage, and three bell peppers ; add 
one cup of sugar, half a cup of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of mustard seed, and vinegar enough to mix together. 
Wash cucumbers in cold water and fill with the mix- 
ture; fasten the tops on with toothpicks, put in jars and 
cover with boiling spiced vinegar. Nice to serve with 
cold meats. 

Cucumber Pickle, No. 1 

After soaking until fresh one gallon of cucumbers, 
add to them two or three onions, cut in halves, and a 
quarter of a pound of fresh horseradish. Make a pickle 
of two quarts of apple vinegar, one pound of sugar, two 
sticks of cinnamon, one teaspoonf ul each of cloves, spice 
and mace. Heat and pour over them while hot ; seal. 

Cucumber Pickle, No. 2 

For two gallons of cucumbers, after they have been 
jsoaked fresh, take one gallon of good apple vinegar, 
half teacupful each of white mustard seed, celery seed 
and ginger ; four onions, chopped ; tablespoonf ul each of 
black pepper and ground cloves ; three tablespoonfuls of 
grated horseradish, one pound of sugar, one teacupful 
of syrup. Heat and pour over the cucumbers. Keep 
well covered. Will be ready for use in one week. 

Cucumber Pickle, No. 3 

After soaking until fresh one gallon of cucumbers, 
add to them two or three large onions, half dozen pieces 
of horseradish, two sticks of cinnamon, four inches 
long, one teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. Boil 
two quarts of apple vinegar, with one pound of sugar, 
and pour over them while hot. Keep well covered. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 55 

Cucumber Pickle, No. 4 

For tv^o gallons of cucumbers, after they are soaked 
until fresh, take one gallon of good apple vinegar, half 
teacupful each of mustard and celery seed, four pieces 
of ginger, tablespoonful each of whole cloves and black 
pepper, and four pounds of sugar. Let all come to a 
boil, pour over the cucumbers while hot. They should 
be kept well covered. 

Cucumber Pickle, No. 5 

Cut into inch pieces half gallon of cucumbers. Add 
to these one quart each of small onions and green toma- 
toes, cut in halves. Make a pickle of two quarts of 
vinegar, two pounds of sugar, two four inch sticks of 
cinnamon and one tablespoonful of allspice. Let this 
boil, then add to it one tablespoonful of ground mustard 
and one teaspoonful of turmeric mixed as in cabbage 
pickle. Pour over while hot. 

Cucumber Chow-Chow 

Soak cucumbers just out of brine until fresh. Cut 
in small pieces, scald in vinegar and drain ; put them in 
a stone jar and cover with one gallon of good apple 
vinegar, scalding hot, to which has been added one tea- 
cupful of mixed mustard seed, black and white, two 
ounces of white ginger, one of pepper, two of ground 
mustard, one teaspoonful e?ich of mace, cloves and all- 
spice, two teaspoonfuls of turmeric and one of grated 
horseradish, one head of garlic, two sliced lemons and 
three pounds of sugar. Mix mustard and turmeric into 
a smooth paste before putting into the vinegar, as in 
yellow cabbage pickle. 

Mixed Chow-Chow 

Chop fine, one quart each of green tomatoes, onions, 
beans, cabbage, cucumbers and green bell peppers. Add 
one teacupful of salt. Mix all well, put in a stone jar, 
and let stand several hours. Then wash in cold water, 
and drain. Pour over it enough apple vinegar to cover 
it ; let stand twenty-four hours, then drain. Heat three 



56 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

quarts of vinegar with one tablespoonful each of mus- 
tard and celery seed, tablespoonful each of cloves, all- 
spice and cinnamon, and two pounds of sugar, and pour 
over it. Put spices in a bag. Keep well covered. It 
will be ready for use in a few days. 

Cabbage Sweet Pickle 

Take two large cabbages, cut each one in twelve 
pieces, leaving a part of the stalk on each piece to hold 
and leaves together. Place in a kettle, cover with cold 
water and one teacupf ul of salt and let it come to a boil. 
Remove from the fire, drain, and cover again with cold 
water. Let stand until cold; take from the water, 
place on a dry cloth, and drain well. Place in jars, 
sprinkling mustard seed in as the cabbage is placed. 
Boil three pints of good apple vinegar with teaspoonf ul 
each of whole cloves, allspice and mace, two sticks of 
cinnamon and ;three pounds of sugar. Have ready in a 
large bowl, one-quarter of a pound of mustard and a 
large tablespoonful of turmeric. Make this into a 
smooth paste with a small quantity of vinegar. Now 
add the vinegar in small quantities until all is mixed in. 
Pour over the cabbage. Just before sealing, pour two 
or three tablespoonfuls of olive oil in the pickle. 

Cabbage Pickle 

Chop fine two large cabbages, place in kettle with 
cold water and add one teacupful of salt. Let come to 
a boil; drain, and pack in jars, with one teacupful of 
white mustard seed. Have a pickle made of one quart 
of apple vinegar, two pounds of sugar and a tablespoon- 
ful each of ground cloves arid cinnamon. Let this boil, 
and pour over the cabbage ; seal while hot. A quarter 
of a pound of ground mustard may be used with this, 
as in the sweet cabbage pickle, if mustard pickle is 
desired. Double the quantity of spices may be boiled 
in the vinegar, then strained out before it is poured 
over the cabbage, and the pickle will not be dark. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 5t 
Higdon Salad 

Take equal quantities of cabbage and green toma- 
toes. Season with onion and green pepper, all cut fine 
together. Put in a jar and cover with salt. Let re- 
main six hours, then drain. Then put it in vinegar and 
let stand twenty-four hours ; drain this out of the vine- 
gar and put in a jar, with layers of ground mustard, 
white mustard seed, cloves, cinnamon and horseradish 
to taste. Fill up the jar with fresh vinegar and it will 
be ready for use in a week. 

Pepper Mangoes 

Take the large bell peppers (the sweet pepper is 
best) as soon as they are grown ; cut out the stem end 
and get the seed well out. Push stem into the pod. 
When all are prepared, pour over them hot soda water 
to keep them green, then boil them a few minutes in 
alum water to get them firm; plunge them into cold 
water, slightly salted, and let them remain all night. 
Make a filling of cabbage, green tomatoes and cucum- 
bers in equal quantities, chipped fine, and a little onion 
if desired. Cover with water, add one teacupful of 
salt and let stand all night. Then take them out of 
the water, drain thoroughly; add half cup of mustard 
seed, a tablespoonful each of cloves and cinnamon 
mixed, and a teacupful of grated horseradish; fill the 
peppers with this, fit the stems, fasten them in with 
toothpicks, place in jars and cover with boiling vinegar, 
sweetened with one pound of sugar to each quart of 
vinegar. 

Pear Sweet Pickle 

Peel the fruit and place in jars. Make a syrup in 
proportion of one quart of vinegar to three pints of 
sugar; spice highly with cloves, allspice and cinnamon. 
Let this boil up well, then pour over fruit. Reboil 
the syrup, and while hot, pour over the pears. Repeat 
this several days until they are colored to the core. 



58 THE NEW ANNJE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

, Cabbage Sauce 

• <5Jrind through a sausage mill one large cabbage; 
put in a kettle with a tablespoonf ul of salt, and boil two 
minutes ; pour off the water and cover with cold water. 
Let stand until cold. Press all of the water out and 
add a teaspoonful each of ground cloves, mustard and 
black pepper. After this is well mixed, put in a jar 
and cover with hot apple vinegar, sweeten with two 
teacupfuls sugar to one quart of vinegar. This will be 
ready for use in twelve hours. 

Artichoke Sweet Pickle 

Scrape and soak one hour in weak brine; rinse in 
fresh water and place in jars. Boil enough good apple 
vinegar (which should be over two years old) to cover 
the artichokes ; add to this, before boiling, one teacupful 
of sugar and a teaspoonful each of cloves and whole 
allspice, to each quart of vinegar. Let boil two min- 
utes, then pour over the artichokes and seal. May be 
used when one month old. 

Walnut Pickle 

Gather the nuts when they can be easily pierced 
with a needle. Soak in brine one week. Take them out 
of this and sun for a few hours ; soak in cold water for 
twelve hours. Put in jars and pour over them boiling 
hot vinegar, to which has been added one teaspoonful 
each of ginger, cloves, mace and pepper, two onions,, 
a small quantity of horseradish and two pods of red 
pepper, to each quart of vinegar; cover well. The 
pickle will be ready for use in a month or more. 

Walnut Catsup 

Gather the nuts as for pickle. Crush them, put in 
a jar, and sprinkle lightly with salt. Let stand five or 
six days, then strain off the juice. To every gallon of 
juice, add one pint of chipped onion, one tablespoonf ul 
of mace, black pepper. Boil for thirty or forty minutes. 
Bottle, seal, and keep in a cool, dark place. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 59 

Onion Pickle 

Peel one gallon of medium sized onions. Put in a 
porcelain kettle one quart of sweet milk and three 
quarts of water; salt slightly; put in the onions and 
let come to boil ; remove from the liquid and pour over 
them cold water; wipe dry with a cloth and place in 
jars. Pour over them a pickle made of one quart of 
cider vinegar, one pound of sugar, one teaspoonful each 
of cloves, lyace and allspice, quarter of a pound of 
ground mustard and one tablespoonful of turmeric. 
Mix the turmeric and mustard together to a smooth 
paste, with a small quantity of the vinegar after it 
has been allowed to come to a boil; then stir in the 
vinegar slowly until all has been used. Pour over the 
onions and seal. Leave out the sugar and use a little 
more salt if sour pickles are preferred. 

Cabbage Pickle 

Four medium size cabbages, half peck of onions, 
half a peck of green pepper. Chop cabbage and pepper, 
sprinkle with salt, using two teacupfuls of salt. Pack 
in jar and let remain twelve hours. Then drain, and 
cover with boiling water, letting it stand three hours. 
Now press the water out thoroughly, using a colander 
or coarse net, and add the onions, chopped ; cover with 
boiling vinegar, and let it remain two days. Drain 
well, and add spices as follows : Two tablespoonf uls of 
ground cinnamon, one tablespoonful of ginger, one of 
cloves, one of mace, a quarter pound of mustard, two 
ounces of turmeric, two tablespoonfuls of celery seed, 
one each of black and white mustard seed, and a teacup- 
f ul of sugar. Mix, and cover with cold vinegar. 

Cabbage Chow-Chow 

Chop fine one large white cabbage; boil for one 
minute in a weak salt water. Take out of the kettle 
and cover with cold water ; let stand five minutes, then 
drain well. While the cabbage is draining, heat one 
quart of good apple vinegar, with one teaspoonful ol" 



60 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

whole cloves, six blades of mace and one and a half 
tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, two of white mus- 
tard seed and a heaping teaspoonf ul of turmeric. Make 
into a paste with small quantity of the hot vinegar. 
Strain the vinegar and add to the mustard, being care- 
ful to have it well mixed. Cover with waxed cloth for 
sealing purposes. 

f Artichoke Pickle, No. 1 

Scrape and soak twelve hours, in a brine made of 
one teacupful of salt and a gallon of cold water. 
Season with cloves, mustard seed and coriander seed, 
mace, allspice and black pepper and enough apple vine- 
gar to cover artichokes. Place the artichokes in jars 
and pour over them the vinegar, cold. Will be fit for 
use in one month. 

Artichoke Pickle, No. 2 

Proceed as in recipe No. 1, leave out all the spices 
save cloves and pepper and add horseradish. To each 
quart of vinegar, add one teaspoonful each of cloves 
and whole pepper and a half teacupful of horseradish, 
cut in small pieces. 

Red Pepper Catsup, No. 1 

Boil until tender half gallon of red pepper pods, in 
water enough to cover. Add, while boiling, a table- 
spoonful of mace and allspice. Rub through a sieve 
and add one quart of apple vinegar. Boil until thick, 
and bottle. One pound of sugar may be added while 
boiling, if desired. 

Red Pepper Catsup, No. 2 

Take equal quantities of red pepper pods and ripe 
tomatoes ; add two ' tablespoonfuls of salt and one each 
of mace and cloves. Boil one hour, rub through a 
sieve; add one quart of apple vinegar and boil until 
thick. Bottle. 



THE N'EW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 61 
Cauliflower Pickle, No. 1 

To twelve heads of cauliflower put five quarts of 
vinegar, five teacupfuls of brown sugar, a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, one bottle of French mustard, a quarter 
pound box of common mustard, two tablespoonfuls of 
ground ginger, a cupful of garlic or dwarf onions, two 
green pepper pods, a half teaspoonf ul of cayenne pepper 
and one ounce of turmeric. Mix together sugar, mus- 
tard, ginger and turmeric, heating them well. Then 
boil in vinegar, with garlic, pepper, etc., for ten min- 
utes. Meanwhile put on the cauliflower in a separate 
pot and boil until tender, which requires but a few 
minutes. Divide the cauliflower into convenient sized 
spriga, which must be carefully placed in glass jars 
and covered with the spiced vinegar. Seal up tight 
and keep in a dry closet. 

Cauliflower Pickle, No. 2 
Take two large heads of cauliflower, divide in pieces 
the desired size; put in porcelain kettle, cover with 
water and add one teacupful of salt; let it boil one 
minute. Take from the kettle and cover it with cold 
water; let it stay a few minutes, drain, place in an 
earthen jar, cover with apple vinegar and let it stand 
twelve hours. Then make a pickle of half gallon of 
vinegar, two pounds of sugar, teaspoonful of whole 
cloves, mace and allspice, quarter of a pound of ground 
mustard and a tablespoonful of turmeric. Mix the 
mustard and turmeric into a paste with a little vinegar, 
add the spices, sugar and vinegar, and heat. Drain 
the vinegar from the cauliflower, place in jars and 
pour the pickle over it. Seal and keep in a cool place. 

Cauliflower Pickle, No. 3 

Prepare the cauliflower as for the mustard pickle. 
After draining from the vinegar, place in jars with 
three pods of red pepper, half cup of horseradish, tea- 
spoonful each of whole cloves and mace. Cover with 
good apple vinegar, cold, and seal. 



62 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Pepper Pickle 

Take one peck of sweet bell peppers when just 
grown; cut out the stems and seed. Chop the rinds 
fine, sprinkle lightly with salt, and let stand a few 
hours ; rinse off the salt, cover with alum water, and 
let stand over night. Then soak in clear water for 
twelve hours. Drain the water from them, and add 
one teacupful of grated horseradish, half teacupful of 
mustard seed and a few blades of mace. Pour over 
this, when well mixed, two quarts of apple vinegar. 
Put in jars, and seal. 

Head Nates on Tomato Catsup 

It is very essential that gpod apple vinegar be used. 

Stir constantly while cooking. 

If the tomatoes to be used for catsup are not thor- 
oughly ripe when gathered, place them in shallow bas- 
kets, and keep until they reach the proper stage for use. 

Tomato Catsup 

Wash and slice one bushel of ripe tomatoes; boil 
until tender, using no water ; remove from the fire, and 
let them cool ; then rub them through a sieve. Return 
to the fire, and boil until very thick; now add three 
teacupfuls each of white sugar and good apple vinegar, 
one of salt and one heaping tablespoonful of black 
pepper. Let this continue to boil until there are just 
two gallons. Bottle while hot. Before corking, put 
one teaspoonful of apple vinegar in each bottle. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Wash and grate the horseradish. To each quart 
put one teacupful of sugar and one of good apple vine- 
gar. Mix well, bottle and seal. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 63 

BREADS 

YEAST 

It is hard to point out the most important stepa 
in bread-making, but thorough kneading, slow rising 
and careful baking are some of the requisites, and 
the use of lukewarm water and milk the first essential. 
— Betsy Beeswax. 

Hop and Potato Yeast, No. 1 

One-half dozen potatoes; pinch of hops (in muslin 
bag) ; pour three pints of water on potatoes and hops 
and let boil until done. Then put into cup of warm 
water, one heaping tablespoonf ul of powdered yeast and 
let stand a few minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one teaspoonf ul of salt. Mash potatoes ; strain 
the water in which potatoes and hops were boiled. 
There should be two pints. Mix with the yeast and 
this water, one teacupful of flour, two and a half of 
meal. Set to rise. It should rise to double its original 
quantity. Make into dough, with equal parts of meal 
and flour and make into cakes, dry and crumble. Put 
away in paper bags, to keep the weevils out. 

Hop and Potato Yeast, No. 2 

One cake of yeast, dissolved in a warm tea, made 
from a pinch of hops ; boil one Irish potato, rub through 
a sieve and add to the yeast ; work in a quart of sifted 
corn meal, making a batter as stiff as mush. Set to 
rise ; after an hour, if any water rises to the top, stir 
in more meal; when well risen, it will crack open on 
top. Now stir in meal to make a stiff dough. Make 
in a long roll, three inches in diameter and cut the 
cakes from the end, each half an inch thick. Put in 
the shade to dry. When nearly dry, crumble, dry 
thoroughly, and put away in a close jar, bottle or 
paper sack. Use one tablespoonful to one good quart 
of flour. 



454 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Liquid or Dry Hop Yeast 

One teacupful of lightly broken hops, one pint of 
sifted flour, one teacupful of granulated sugar, one 
tablespoonful of salt, four large, or six medium-sized 
potatoes, two quarts of boiling water. Boil 'the pota- 
toes, drain off the water when done, and let them dry 
off a few minutes, precisely as for the table, before 
mashing them. At the same time, having tied the 
hops in a cloth, boil them half an hour in the two 
quarts of water, renewing it if it boils away. Mix 
the flour, sugar and salt well together, make into a 
soft paste with cold water, and pour on the boiling 
hop water slowly, stirring constantly. Now add 
enough of this to the mashed potato to thin it till it 
can be poured and mix all together, strain through a 
sieve to avoid any possible lumps. Add to this, when 
cool, either a teacupful of yeast, or cake of com- 
pressed yeast, dissolved in a little warm water. Let 
|t stand two hours, or till partly light, then stir it 
down two or three times in the course of five or six 
hours, as this makes it stronger. At the end of that 
time it will be light. Put in an air-tight vessel, and 
keep in a cool, dark place. For the yeast cakes, stir 
in corn meal till a dough is made, form it in small, 
thin cakes, and dry them carefully in the shade. 

Liquid Yeast 

Peel and slice three or four medium-sized potatoes 
and boil until perfectly soft, in four pints of water. 
When done, drain, mash the potatoes well, and add the 
water. When about lukewarm, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, teacupful of sugar, one of hops and one 
cupful of liquid yeast, or one yeast cake. Cover over 
for about twenty-four hours, or until it ceases to fer- 
ment ; then put in air-tight jar and set in a cool, dark 
place. It will keep for two or three months in winter 
and about two weeks in summer. 

One cupful of this yeast is sufficient for half a 
dozen loaves of bread. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 65 

Mrs. Adams' Yeast 

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of dry yeast in a 
tumbler of warm water; add a pinch of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar and make into a soft dough, with 
one pint of com meal and a half pint of flour. In an 
hour, or w^hen well risen, make into cakes and dry. 
When nearly dry, crumble the cakes as they will be 
more convenient for use. Keep in a bottle and use 
one tablespoonful to a quart of flour. 



Milk Yeast 

One cup of fresh sweet milk, two cups of water, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar. 
Boil the milk and water; when suffiqiently cool (just 
milk warm), stir in one cupful of meal and enough 
flour to make a rather stiff batter. Keep warm, and 
in three hours, stir it up well; six hours from the 
time it is made, it ought to be well risen ; if it is not, 
do not use it for bread. 

Make the yeast in a pitcher, cover closely, and 
place in a pot of warm water; place the pot near the 
fire or stove, and add hot water, as often as necessary 
to keep an even temperature. Everything depends 
on keeping yeast and bread warm. This quantity of 
yeast, with one pint of warm water, will make up 
three quarts of flour. 



Buttermilk Yeast and Bread 

Boil a teacupful of fresh buttermilk; when about 
milk warm dissolve in it a cake of yeast. Stir into 
this enough sifted com meal to make a stiff batter, 
and set to rise. When well risen it will crack open 
in places over the top. Roll out in corn meal and cut 
in cakes and dry in the shade. For rolls use just as 
one does other yeast. It rises more quickly. 



66 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BREAD AND ROLLS 
Milk Yeast Bread, No. 1 

Make the yeast as directed in preceding recipe. 
Sift three quarts of flour and rub in it one tablespoon- 
ful of lard — more or less, as is liked, one tablespoonf ul 
of sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of salt. Stir in 
one pint of warm water, then the yeast, and knead; 
set to rise; when well risen, knead thoroughly, make 
into loaves and set to rise in a warm place until ready 
to bake. 

Milk Yeast Bread, No. 2 

The night before baking bread, boil one teacupful 
of sweet milk and to this add " one tablespoonf ul of 
meal; set in stoveroom until early next morning. 
Then add two teacupf uls of warm water, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one tablespoonf ul of sugar; stir in thor- 
oughly three teacupf uls of flour; put to rise in a 
vessel of hot water (more heat is required for this 
than for hop yeast). After it rises well into a foam, 
make into a moderately soft dough ; grease the loaves 
over and put to rise; when well risen, bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Breakfast Rolls 

One quart of flour, heaped up, one tablespoonf ul of 
powdered hop yeast, one tablespoonfiil of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of salt, one heaping teaspoonful of lard. 
Dissolve the yeast, salt and sugar in a teacupful of 
warm water, make a soft dough, using more warm 
water if necessary. Set in a warm place to rise; 
when well risen, knead thoroughly, using as little 
flour as possible, as the rolls rise better and are lighter. 
Make into rolls, set to rise and when light, bake. 

Salt Rising Bread 

Into a pitcher put one teacupful of fresh sweet milk, 
two teacupfuls of boiling water, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt; into this three teacup- 
fuls of flour. Set the pitcher in a kettle of moderately 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 67 

warm water and keep it at a uniform temperature; 
cover the mouth of the pitcher with a towel. Set the 
kettle where the water will keep warm. Let it stand 
three hours then beat up well, after which do not 
disturb it. In two hours it should be light. Have 
ready two quarts of flour, half a taMespoonful of lard, 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Pour in the yeast, to which, 
if not sufficient, add warm water to make a moderately 
soft dough. Knead well, mold in loaves, put in greased 
pan and set in warm oven to rise; after which bake 
slowly. 

Bread or Rolls 

Into two quarts of flour, rub two tablespoonfuls of 
lard. Make up with one pint of sweet milk, boiled 
and cold, and one heaping tablespoonful of yeast, dis- 
solved in a cupful of warm water ; add two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and one of salt. Set to rise ; when risen 
about double its size, make into rolls or loaves; let 
rise again and bake slowly. 

Bread, No. 1 

Very excellent bread is made by the following rule : 
One tablespoonful of butter or lard, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, one pint of milk 
or water (lukewarm), two quarts of flour, half a cake 
of yeast, or half a cup of liquid yeast. Into a bowl 
put the salt, butter and sugar; sift over it one quart 
of flour. Make a hole in the center of these ingredients 
and pour into it, stirring slowly, the pint of lukewarm 
water or milk in which the yeast has been thoroughly 
dissolved, or to which the liquid yeast has been added. 
Stir vigorously till a smooth batter is formed, then 
cover and set away over night in a room the tempera- 
ture of which is about sixty degrees. As soon as pos- 
sible stir into this spongy mass the remainder of the 
flour, reserving two tablespoonfuls of it for sprinkling 
the hands and bread board during the kneading opera- 
tion. Then press and work the dough thoroughly for 



68 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

twenty minutes; by this time no part of it will stick 
to the hands or board. Cover and place in a warm cor- 
ner, out of the way of draughts for five hours ; then 
turn again on the kneading board, knead for ten min- 
utes, form into loaves and place in well buttered pans. 
Let this rise for an hour longer, then bake fifty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. When baked, remove from 
the pans, place the loaves in a slanting position, cover 
with clean cloth until cold, then place in the bread box. 

Bread, No. 2 

At night take a quart of scalded milk, two quarts 
of flour, three tablespoonfuls of liquid yeast, or half 
a cake of compressed yeast, and a tablespoonful of 
sugar. Mix together with a spoon. Cover with a 
cloth; stand in a warm room for the night. In 'the 
morning add a tablespoonful of salt and flour enough 
to make a soft dough ; put it back in the bowl and let 
it rise again; it ought to double itself. Turn out and 
cut the loaves. Knead each one a little. Put in baking 
pans; let rise again, then bake. 

Home Made RoUs 

1 yeast cake 1 heaping kitchenspoonful 

1 Irish potato (large) sihortening 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

6 cupfuls flour 

Soak yeast cake in three-fourths cupful lukew^arm 
water ; boil potato thoroughly tender. Put lard, sugar 
and salt in mixing bowl and pour in one teacupful of 
potato water and hot mashed potato. Add yeast. 

Sift into the mixture sufficient flour to make as 
stiff batter as can be worked with a spoon. Set aside 
in a warm place to rise until light and spongy. Add 
more flour and work into a soft dough. Roll out, cut 
with biscuit cutter, smear with melted butter and fold. 
POace in baking pan, not touching. Let rise to double 
the size. Bake in moderate oven. When just begin- 
ning to brown smear with melted butter. Makes four 
dozen rolls. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 69 
Old Virginia Loaf Bread 

Boil one large Irish potato until done, peel and 
mash fine ; add a little cold water to soften it, stir into 
it a teaspoonful of brown sugar, a tablespoonfui of 
lard, and three tablespoonfuls of liquid hop yeast. 
Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and put the sponge 
in a close jar ; cover and let stand several hours to rise. 
Sift into the tray three pints of flour, to which add a 
teaspoonful of salt, then pour the sponge in, with 
enough tepid water to work into a stiff dough; knead 
until smooth and let stand over night to rise. In the 
morning, make into loaves, allow it to rise one hour 
and bake. 

Parker House Breakfast Rolls 

Two quarts of flour, half a cup of sugar, half a cup 
of butter, half a cup of liquid yeast. Mix these ingre- 
dients with fresh sweet milk until you have a nice, 
light dough, about the same consistency as bread dough. 
Let them stand in a warm place ; if made after dinner, 
and to be used at tea time, four hours will be sufficient 
length of time for them to rise. Let them stand in a 
cooler place if made over night to be used for break- 
fast. When the dough is light, take about as much as 
for an ordinary biscuit and roll it out in any desired 
size, spread on one-half of the piece of dough a little 
soft butter, lap over the other half, and when they 
have risen again, and are baked in a "quick oven" they 
are delicious, making the famous 'Tarker House Rolls." 

Tea Rolls 

At noon, boil two good sized Irish potatoes; mash 
fine, and mix with it one yeast cake, one tablespoonfui 
of sugar and one of salt ; set to rise ; it should be very 
light by evening; then add one pint of warm water, 
two tablespoonfuls of lard and flour enough to make a 
sponge; in the morning knead, roll out, cut with a 
biscuit cutter, spread with butter, fold together, let 
rise until very light and bake ; serve hot for tea. 



70 THE I^IEW ANNJE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sally Lunn 

Beat two eggs very light. Sift into this one pint 
of flour and make a very stiff batter with sweet milk ; 
put in a little salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter 
or lard, even teaspoonful of soda and two of cream of 
tartar, each dissolved in a little water; put these in 
last. When done, split open and butter. 

Sally Lunn, Made with Yeast 

One pint of sweet milk, a large tablespoonful of 
butter, four eggs, a tablespoonful of dry yeast; sift in 
enough flour to make a batter as thick as waffle batter. 
Make up at three o'clock for tea ; and set aside to rise. 

Bread Made with Compressed Yeast 

Dissolve one cake of compressed yeast in two tea- 
cupfuls of warm water. Sift one heavy quart of flour 
with three teaspoonfuls of sugar, and one of salt. Rub 
into the flour one heaping teaspoonful of lard ; then mix 
well with the water and yeast, and place, well covered, 
in a warm place to rise. 

Make into loaves for bread ; or rolls, or bread sticks, 
using just enough flour on the hands to keep from 
sticking. Put them in a greased pan and keep them in 
a warm place until ready to bake. The tops should be 
lightly greased with melted butter. 

Health Bread 

1 cupful flour 
2 cupfuls bran V2 level teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful corn meal 3 cupfuls milk or cream 

1 cupful cream of wheat V2 cupful molasses 

2 level teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Put the bran into a basin, add corn meal, cream of 
wheat, flour sifted with baking powder and salt, and 
molasses mixed with milk. Beat well, and pour into 
large, well-gi*eased mold — cover and steam steadily 
for eight hours. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 71 

How to Make Scotch Cakes 

Two quarts of flour, sifted with a teaspoonful of 
salt. One cup of fresh, liquid yeast, three teacupfuls 
of fresh sweet milk and three eggs. Mix three-fourths 
of the flour (three pints) into a batter with the eggs, 
milk and yeast, and beat it well. Into a clean, dry tin 
bucket, sprinkle half of the remaining pint of flour, over 
this pour the batter. Sprinkle hghtly over it the 
remainder and set it by to rise. Do this about dark and 
at nine o'clock the batter will have risen up through the 
flour. Empty the contents of the bucket into a tray 
and mix and knead it well. Put it back into the bucket 
and let it rise until morning, then work into the dough 
a large tablespoonful of butter. Mold into large-sized 
biscuits, flatten with the rolling pin to nearly an inch 
in thickness. Grease a pan and put them in it to rise 
again ; when hght, bake in a quick oven and serve at 
oncG. A delicious bread for breakfast. 

Nut Cakes When We Were Children 

Heat a pint of milk just lukewarm. Stir into it a 
teacupful of lard. (The lard should be melted.) Stir 
in flour till it is a thick batter, then add a teacupful of 
liquid yeast. Set in a warm place. When light, work 
in two and one-half teacupfuls of powdered sugar, four 
eggs beaten to a froth, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon 
and one of salt. Knead into it sufficient flour to roll 
it out; put in a warm place to rise again. When it 
appears of a spongy lightness, roll out about half an 
inch thick. Cut into cakes with a wine glass and set 
aside. Now put in a porcelain-lined pot over a brisk 
fire two pounds of lard; when this is boiling hot a 
blue smoke will rise; the cakes will now be ready to 
cook ; drop in a few at a time and when they are light 
brown, take out with a wire dipper. If liked, as they 
are removed from the lard dip them in powdered sugar. 
The lard must not be allowed to burn ; a piece of Irish 
potato dropped in occasionally will help to keep the 
lard clear, and will not affect the taste of the cakes. 



72 THE NEW ANNIE DENiyiS COOK BOOK 

Twist 

Into one quart of flour rub one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one of butter, and one teaspoonful of salt. Add 
one eggy one small teacupful of liquid yeast, and mix to 
a soft dough with milk-warm water. When it rises 
well, knead thoroughly, and set to rise again. When it 
has risen well, knead again. Break into twelve pieces, 
and with the hands mold about ten inches long, letting 
each piece be larger in the middle than at the end. 

Now lay one piece across another and twist from 
the middle towards the ends, pinching the ends together 
to keep them from separating. Have a baking pan 
well buttered, and lay each twist in nicely, far enough 
apart not to touch when risen. Let them rise for half 
an hour, and bake quickly in a well-heated oven. Each 
piece of dough, before being twisted together, must 
be rubbed over with melted butter so that the twist 
will separate when well baked. 

Plate Tea Rolls 

Roll light-bread dough quite thin. Spread with soft 
butter then with chopped dates. Roll the dough up, 
and cut with a sharp knife. Lay in a buttered pan, 
let them rise, then bake. 

Pop-overs 

One cup of sifted flour, three eggs, one cup of milk, 
two teaspoonfuls corn starch. Beat the yolks with the 
milk; add salt and whites, beaten very stiff. Put the 
flour and corn starch in bowl, stir in liquid and beat 
until perfectly smooth. Pour into hot well greased pop- 
over tins and bake for 15 minutes. Serve at once, since 
they fall rapidly. 

Nut Bread 

Two cups white flour, two cups graham flour; one 
cup nuts; one and a half cups sweet milk; one egg; 
one teaspoonful salt; one cup brown sugar; four tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Let set in greased pan for 
twenty minutes. Then bake one hour in slow oven. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 73 
Salt Rising Bread 

Scald one teacupful of sweet milk; stir in half a 
level teaspoonful of salt and a heaping teaspoonful of 
corn meal. Put in a warm place to stay over night. 
Next morning stir into this a light pint of flour, using 
a little warm water to make the yeast the consistency 
of cake batter. Let this rise. This should not take 
more than an hour and a half. Sift six pints of flour. 
Reserve one quart of this to work up with. Work into 
the rest of the flour lard the size of a hen egg, then 
pour in the yeast. If while mixing, the dough seems to 
be getting stiff, work in a little water. (The dough for 
salt risen bread must never be stiff.) Now work hard 
for half an hour, make into pones and set to rise in a 
warm place, being careful not to expose to draughts. 
This should rise in half, or three-quarters of an hour. 
Bake quickly. 

Bran Bread 

5 cupfuls bran 1 cupful of lard 

2 qts. flour 1 pint of sweet milk 

% cupful sugar 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 heaping tablespoonful salt V2 cupful tepid water 

Sift the flour, mix with the sugar and salt. Add 

the bran and mix in. Add lard. Scald sweet milk 

and pour over. Mix thoroughly with a kitchen spoon. 

Meanwhile dissolve yeast in tepid water and add to 

the dough. Use enough tepid water to make a stiff 

dough. Work thoroughly, and set to rise over night. 

Work again next morning and let rise the second time. 

Bake one hour in a slow oven. This recipe is sufficient 

for three large loaves. This bread makes delicious 

toast. 

Nut Bread 

1 egg 1 cupful nuts 

1 cupful sugar 4 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

IV2 cupfuls milk der 

4 cupfuls flour Salt 



74 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Rusks for the Morning Table 

Mix together one pint of warm sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, 
three pints of flour, and one cake of yeast, or one tea- 
cupful of good liquid yeast. Put the whites in a teacup 
and set aside in a cool place for use next morning. 
Beat the sponge well and set it to rise over night. In 
the morning, cream half a pound of butter with three- 
quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, add three 
egg whites beaten to a stiff froth, and half of a level 
teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a teaspoonful of boil- 
ing water. Mix into the dough thoroughly, at the 
same time kneading in one pint of flour. Set it to rise 
again. Then mold into rolls, flatten out somewhat with 
the rolling pin, put in buttered pans, and when light 
prick with a fork, and bake in a quick oven. 

Brown Bread 

Two coffee cupfuls of graham flour, two of corn 
meal, and two of buttermilk ; two tablespoonf uls of but- 
ter, two teaspoonfuls of soda, and one of salt. Grease 
three one-pound baking powder cans, and put the mix- 
ture in them. Steam two hours, and then put in the 
oven and bake half an hour. 

Rice Popovers 

1 pt. cold boiled rice 2 level tablespooirfuls sug-ar 
^/4 It) flour 2 eggs (separated) 

2 teaspoonfuls baking 1 pt. milk 

powder 1 level teaspoonful salt 

Mash the rice until smooth. Sift the flour, baking 
powder, sugar and salt together twice. Beat the yolks 
of eggs, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and 
stir them into the rice. Then add the milk and flour 
alternately, and beat until smooth. 

Have gem pans greased and a little flour sifted into 
each. Fill each two-thirds full with the mixture, and 
bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve hot with 
butter or maple syrup. Also as a dessert with pre- 
served fruits. This recipe makes 20 popovers. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 75 

Rye Bread 

When making the regular supply of bread reserve 
one pint of very light wheat flour sponge, add a level 
teaspoonful of salt, a heaping teaspoonful of brown 
sugar and rye flour to permit kneading. Knead well. 
When light, mold into loaves; let rise again till more 
than double its first size, brush the top with melted 
butter and bake one hour in a moderate oven. A deli- 
cious bread, with a crust as tender as cake. 

French Rolls 

4 cups of sifted flour, 4 tablespoonfuls corn starch, 
3 tablespoonfuls butter, one-fourth yeast cake dissolved 
in warm water, tw^o and a half cupfuls of milk, one egg, 
salt. Cook milk and butter until it comes to a boil. 
Add the yeast and egg, well beaten. Sift the flour, 
cornstarch and salt, and add gradually to the mixture. 
Beat well, form into rolls, handling as little as possible ; 
butter and bake. 

Delicious Popovers 

2 eggs 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

1 cupful milk 1 cupful flour 

Vo teaspoonful salt 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt together and 

sift them twice into a basin. Beat up eggs and add 

them gradually with milk to flour mixture ; rub through 

a strainer or sieve and divide into hot, well-greased 

pop-over molds. The molds should be a little more 

than one-half full. Bake for thirty-five minutes in a 

moderate oven. The oven door should be kept closed 

until the mixture has a firm enough crust to keep its 

shape when the door is opened. These popovers come 

out of the oven rich brown puffs which may be eaten 

hot with sugar and cream, with maple syrup, or with 

butter and berries. When these are filled with whipped 

cream, custard, or blanc mange, they make an excellent 

dessert. 



76 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Nut Bread 

1 cupful nuts 1 cupful sweet milk 

2 cupfuls flour 1 teaspoouful salt 

Mi cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuis baking- 

1 egg- powder 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk and eggs and bake 
as an ordinary loaf of bread. 



"** i: Rolls 

1 compressed yeast cake IV2 tablespoonfuls butter 

14 cupful tepid water % teaspoonful salt 

% cupful milk 3 cupfuls flour 

1 tablespoonful sugar 



Scald the milk and add the sugar, butter and salt. 
Cook it until tepid and then add the yeast dissolved in 
the warm water, and beat in half the flour. Continue 
stirring until it is smooth. If not stiff enough to 
knead, add a little more flour. Knead until elastic, 
then set to rise in a bowl oiled with butter. Cover, 
and when doubled in bulk, shape as desired. Place 
an inch apart on a baking-pan, rubbed with butter, let 
rise until doubled in bulk, bake in a hot oven about 
fifteen minutes, then rub over with butter. 

These rolls may be completed in about three hours, 
by omitting the first rising, shaping the rolls after 
they have first been kneaded, but the texture is 
not as fine, nor the flavor as good. 



Brown Bread 

Take three quarters of a cupful of buttermilk, the 
same of sw^eet milk, half a cupful of sugar, one-third 
cupful of syrup, three-quarters of a cupful of corn 
meal and one and a half cupfuls of unsifted flour. 
Use a teaspoonful of soda and salt to taste, with butter 
the size of a walnut. Mix into a batter about the 
consistency of cake batter and boil for three hours. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 77 

BISCUIT 

Plain Biscuit 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
large tablespoonful of lard. Make a stiff dough with 
cold water; then beat until soft and smooth. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 

Beaten Biscuit 

One pound of flour, one-quarter of a pound of lard, 
one teaspoonful of salt, dissolved in a teacupful of 
cold water. Make a very stiff dough, beat well (ten 
minutes), adding flour if it becomes soft too quickly. 
Roll nearly half an inch thick, cut, stick with a fork, 
place in a pan and bake for half an hour. The oven 
must not be too hot. 

Beaten Biscuits (Sweet Milk) 

One pound of flour, one-quarter of a pound of lard, 
teaspoonful of salt dissolved in a teacupful of cold sweet 
milk. Make a very stiff dough, beat well (ten min- 
utes), adding flour if it becomes soft too quickly. Roll 
nearly half an inch thick, cut, stick with a fork and 
bake for half an hour. The oven must not be too hot. 

Very Light Buttermilk Biscuits 

One quart of flour, one kitchenspoonful of lard; 
one teaspoonful of salt, dissolved in the buttermilk; 
one teaspoon level full of soda, and one^alf teaspoonful 
of good baking powder, sifted in the flour. Stir in 
enough buttermilk to make a dough soft as can be 
handled. Roll, cut and stick quickly, and bake in a 
hot oven. Cut the biscuit small. 

Buttermilk Biscuit 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, kitchen- 
spoonful of lard (heaping) ; good level teaspoonful of 
soda sifted in the flour — enough buttermilk to make 
the dough as soft as can be handled. Work as little 
as possible ; roll, cut, stick and bake in a quick oven. 



78 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Soda and Cream of Tartar Biscuit, No. 1 
One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one level 
teaspoonful soda, one heaping teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one kitchenspoonful of lard and two teacupfuls 
of fresh, cold sweet milk. Put together as usual ; han- 
dling as little as possible. The dough should be very 
soft ; if too stiff, add more milk. Roll out quickly, cut, 
and bake in quick oven. 

Soda and Cream of Tartar Biscuit, No. 2 

One quart of flour, one level teaspoonful soda, and 
two of cream of tartar sifted with the flour ; one table- 
spoonful of salt, dissolved in one teacupful of cold 
water ; make a soft dough. Handle as little as possible. 
Roll, stick and cut. Bake in a hot oven. 

Baking Powder Biscuit, No. 1 

Take a quart of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a large table- 
spoonful of lard or butter, a pint of ice-cold sweet milk. 
Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder ; mix in 
thoroughly the lard; add the milk. Flour the board; 
turn out the dough, and roll half an inch thick, handling 
as little as possible. Bake in a hot oven. 

Baking Powder Biscuit, No. 2 

One pint of flour, one tablespoonful of lard, one 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, and one round- 
ing teaspoonful of salt. Sift flour, salt and powder 
together, mix in the lard, and make a moderately soft 
dough with about one tumbler of cold water. Mix with 
a spoon. Roll, cut and stick with a fork, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Maryland Biscuit 

One-quarter of a pound of lard, one quart of flour, 
rubbed well together. Mix very stiff with cold water ; 
knead until it is pliable, and makes a popping sound 
under the hands as the air bubbles break, and until you 
can pull it down in long thin strips. These tests are 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 79 

infallible, but you have to knead hard and long before 
the dough will answer to them. When it does you can 
make the biscuit. Break off pieces about the size of 
an egg. Mold them into round balls, and roll three- 
quarters of an inch thick with a rolling-pin. Stick 
through and through five or six times with a fork. 
The oven must be well heated, but not too hot, or they 
will be underdone in the middle and all of their excel- 
lence ruined. They will cook in twenty minutes if the 
oven is properly heated. A quart of flour makes 
twentj^-four' biscuit of ordinary size. 

Quick Cream Biscuit 

Two teacupfuls of sifted flour, half a cupful of 
cream, two teaspoonf uls of baking powder, one of sugar, 
a level teaspoonful of salt. Sift the flour, sugar, salt 
and baking powder together; then add the cream and 
one well-beaten egg, mixing all together with a silver 
knife. Handle the dough as little as possible while 
making it into small round cakes. Bake in a hot oven 
for about ten minutes. This quantity will make about 
a dozen biscuits. 

Biscuits 

2 €upfuls flour 2 tablespoonfuls butter or 

4 teaspoonfuls baking- 1 tablespoonful each but- 

powder ter and lard 

1 cupful milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

Mix the flour, baking powder and salt and sift into 

a basin ; add butter or lard, and chop with a sharp knife 

until mealy. Add milk gradually until mixture is soft 

and spongy. Turn onto a slightly floured baking 

board and roll lightly until of a uniform thickness, 

about one-half inch. Cut with a floured biscuit cutter, 

place on a greased tin and bake for twelve to fifteen 

minutes in a quick oven. Biscuits should always be 

separated on the pan, as they will be more delicate and 

lighter than when placed closed together. Recipe 

makes one dozen biscuits. 



80 THE ATEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Wheat Gluten Flour Biscuit 

One teacupful of forty per cent gluten flour, one 
rounding teaspoonful of baking powder, half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two-thirds teacupful of thin cream. Sift 
the salt, baking powder and flour together; mix to a 
verj^ soft dough with the cream, using a spoon. Sift 
some flour on the rolling board, turn out the dough, 
sift more flour over it and roll half an inch thick; cut 
and stick the biscuit, lift from the board to the baking 
pan with a battercake turner, and bake in a moderately 
quick oven twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

The gluten flour swells almost as much as meal in 
mixing, necessitating the use of more liquid than 
ordinary flour. 

Potato Biscuit 

Wash and boil six small sweet potatoes with peeling 
on. When soft, take them out, peel and mash through 
a coarse sieve. Sift one quart of flour, and with it one 
level teaspoonful of soda; add one pint of the potato 
(to which has been added a heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar), one kitchenspoonful of lard, salt and buttermilk 
to make a rather stiff dough ; mix thoroughly and bake 
in a quick oven. They should be eaten hot, with butter. 

Peanut Butter Biscuits 



4 


teaspoonful baking 


1 tablespoonful lard 




powder 


3 tablespoonfuls peanut 


2 


cupfuls flour 


butter 


14 


teaspoonful salt 


Enough milk to make soft 


1 


tablespoonful sugar 


dough 



Sift the flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into a 
bowl. Cut in the lard and peanut butter with a knife, 
or rub them with tips of the fingers. Beat eggs and 
add them with sufficient milk to make a soft dough. 
Turn out on a floured baking board, knead lightly, roll 
but, cut with a cutter, brush over with a little beaten 
egg, sprinkle with sugar, and bake from twelve to fif- 
teen minutes in a moderate oven. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 81 

Sweet Potato Biscuit 

Wash and boil four medium sized sweet potatoes. 
Mash; stir into a batter, made with one pint of com 
meal, one teacupf ul of buttermilk, two tablespoonf uls of 
melted lard, one teaspoon level full of salt, and the 
same of soda sifted and beaten into the batter just 
before stirring in the potatoes. Mold and bake until a 
rich brown. 

Egg Biscuit 

Take one pound of flour; wet nearly all of it to a 
paste with the beaten whites of two eggs; beat the 
dough and roll out thin ; work in half pound of butter 
or fresh lard, placing it in small bits on the dough, 
flouring, folding and rolling out again until all is used. 
Move the rolling pin always from you. Cut out in 
small squares, or with a tumbler, stick and bake in a 
quick oven. 

The Favorite Naples Biscuit 
One pound of XXXX sugar, one pound of flour 
sifted several times and dried; one dozen eggs and 
one teaspoonful of finely powdered mace. Beat the 
yolks and whites separately very light. Add the sugar 
to the yolks and beat well. Then add the whites alter- 
nately with the flour. Bake a light brown and sift 
white sugar over them. 



CRACKERS 

My Premium Crackers 

Two pints of sifted flour, a teaspoonful of lard, 
rubbed well together; make into a very stiff dough, 
with a teacupful of cold water, in which has been dis- 
solved a teaspoonful of salt. Beat until smooth and 
divide into four equal parts; roll each piece until 
twelve inches square, cut into three inch squares, stick 
with a fork ; line the bottom of a pan with white paper, 
greased slightly. Put in the crackers and bake three 
or four minutes, in a quick oven. 



82 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Light and Dainty Crackers 

Take a piece of well-risen light bread dough about 
the size of a half pint cup. Work into it a piece of 
fresh butter the size of a walnut. When it is all 
worked in, break the dough into bits as large as a nut- 
meg. Flour the board well and roll very thin. Stick 
with a fork all over and bake quickly a pale brown. Do 
not scorch them in the least. These crackers are en- 
tirely different from those made with unrisen dough 
and are especially nice for an invalid who has wearied 
of the taste of other bread. 

My Premium Crackers 

Rub one tablespoonful of butter into one pint of 
flour to which has been added one teaspoonf ul of salt ; 
then work up with enough sweet milk to make stiff 
dough ; roll very thin, cut into three-inch squares, and 
bake on writing paper. 



WAFERS 

The irons must be rubbed (while hot) with salt and 
a dry cloth to prevent the wafers sticking. Grease well 
the first time, thrust into the hot coals for a minute, 
then remove; put back into the coals of fire; let the 
wafers bake until a very light brown. If sweet wafers, 
roll from the iron. 

Plain Wafers 

Two teacupf uls of flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, sweet milk to make a rather stiff 
batter ; add a level teaspoonf ul of salt, beat thoroughly 
and bake in hot slightly greased wafer irons. 

Victoria Wafers 

One pint of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of butter or two of melted lard. Flour 
enough to make a very thin batter. The wafer irons 
should be very shallow. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 83 

Corn Meal Wafers 

Three tablespoonfuls of sifted corn meal, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one of melted lard, salt to taste, sweet 
milk to make a thin batter. These must be eaten 
immediately, as they soon become tough. 

Sweet Wafers 

One teacupful of sugar, three eggs, two teacupfula 
of sifted flour, one tablespoonful of butter. Mix as for 
cake batter. Bake in hot, lightly-greased wafer irons. 

Fruit Wafers 

Raspberry, strawberry, lemon and vanilla wafers 
may be made by using the recipe for sweet wafers 
and flavoring with the extract of fruit desired. 



WAFFLES 

Flour Waffles 

One teacupful of flour, one teacupful of buttermilk, 
one tablespoonful of melted lard, one egg^ half a level 
teaspoonful of soda and one teaspoonful of salt. 

Rice Waffles 

One teacupful of boiled rice, one teacupful of meal, 
one teacupful of buttermilk, one egg, well beaten, two- 
thirds level teaspoonful of soda, sifted into the batter, 
level teaspoonful of salt ; beat thoroughly ; stir in last, 
one tablespoonful of melted lard. Bake in hot, well- 
greased irons. 

Waffles, No. 1 

One teacupful of flour, one teacupful of meal, one 
egg, two teacupfuls of buttermilk, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted lard, one level teaspoonful each of salt and 
soda. Mix the flour and meal with half the milk; 
beat in the egg, add rest of milk; dissolve soda in a 
little water and stir in, beat well, add salt, then the 
lard last. Beat thoroughly and bake. Have the waffle 
irons clean and hot; grease well the first time. 



t4 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Waffles, No. 2 

One pint of flour, one and one-half pints of butter- 
milk, three eggs, one level teaspoonful of soda, one 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, three table- 
spoonfuls of melted lard. Break the eggs into the 
milk, then sift in flour, salt, baking powder and soda. 
Beat until smooth with an egg-whip, then add the 
melted lard and beat it in. Have waffle irons hot; 
grease well before putting in batter. Then put in two 
kitchen spoonfuls of batter in the center of the irons, 
close and turn them once. Bake, not too fast, until 
thoroughly done. They will be crisp, and never limp 
if baked well. Never grease the irons after the first 
time unless the waffle burns. If the milk is very sour, 
more soda will have to be used, or use one pint of 
buttermilk and half pint of sweet milk. 

Hominy Waffles 

Beat two eggs two minutes; add one teacupful of 
hominy, half teacupful of flour; then one teacupful of 
buttermilk, another half teacupful of flour, two-thirds 
level teaspoonful of salt, same of soda, sifted into the 
batter ; beat thoroughly and stir in last, one tablespoon- 
ful of melted lard or butter. 

Martha Washington Waffles 

This is a recipe from Mrs. Washington's kitchen. 
Beat six eggs very light, sift in a quart of flour, add a 
teaspoonful of salt, a pint and a half of new milk, and 
three tablespoonfuls of yeast. Beat well; set to rise 
over night, stir with a large spoon in the morning and 
bake in well greased waffle irons. 

Old Fashioned Waffles 

Mix one quart of sweet milk with two and a half 
teacupf uls of flour and one of meal ; add a tablespoonf ul 
of salt and a tablespoonful of melted butter or lard. 
Add last, three eggs, well beaten. Bake at once in 
well-greased irons. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 85 

Waffles Light as Air 

To one quart of flour add one pint of warm (not 
hot) cornmeal mush, salt to taste, seven eggs beaten 
light, separately, one teacupful of sweet cream and 
fresh milk sufficient to make a thin batter. Stir the 
cream and beaten egg yolks into the mush; then add 
the flour and fresh milk, stirring well and mixing per- 
fectly smooth. 

The egg-white, beaten to a stiff froth, should be 
added just before cooking. The batter should be as 
thin as buttermilk, and the waffle irons well heated 
and thoroughly greased. 

No waffles could be nicer than these; if made 
exactly according to directions. Raw meal will not do ; 
it must be made into mush, the eggs must be beaten 
light and the batter must be thin. 



TOAST 

Dry Toast 

Cut light bread in thin slices, place in the oven; 
brown a light brown on both sides, then butter and 
return to the oven for a few minutes to melt the butter. 
Serve on plate covered with napkin. 

Bars of Toast 

Remove crust from bread, cut in thin slices, then 
into strips half an inch wide. Set in oven to brown (a 
pale brown) . Butter or not, as you like. 

Croutons, No. 1 

Cut slices of bread half an inch thick from a stale 
loaf, and stamp them out in small rounds; soak these 
in beaten eggy and cover entirely with a savory mixture 
composed of finely minced parsley, onions, salt, cayenne 
and grated cheese ; then fry in boiling lard until colored 
a golden brown, and nice and crisp. Lay the croutons 
on a blotting paper for a minute, to thoroughly drain 
off all the fat, previous to putting them into the soup. 



86 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Croutons, No. 2 

Cut stale bread in fourth-inch slices, brush with 
melted butter, cut in squares, toast in the oven, and 
sprinkle slightly with salt. 

Croutons, No. 3 

Cut stale bread in cubes and fry in plenty of butter, 
in a deep kettle, heating it so that a cube of bread will 
brown in it in forty seconds. When brown, drain the 
frying basket a moment, dip out the croutons onto 
crumbled paper, to drain further, and sprinkle them 
slightly with salt. 

Cheese and Egg Toast 

Put one cupful of cheese crumbs in half pint of 
sweet milk and boil until melted; add two eggs well 
beaten, with butter, pepper and salt to taste. Stir 
rapidly a few minutes ; take from the fire ; have ready 
the bread toasted, and the slices cut in quarters. Pour 
the cheese on and serve at once. 

Cheese Toast 

Crumb three biscuits, or slices of light bread in a 
baking dish. Break over it a quarter of a pound of 
nice, fresh cheese. Pour over it one cup of boiling 
water, slightly salted, and bake quickly. 

Another Cheese Toast 

Dissolve a half pound of cheese in a teacupful of 
hot water; grate a quarter of a pound of stale bread 
over the cheese and bake ten minutes. 

Cream Toast for Two 

Cut two slices of light bread, about half an inch 
thick and toast before the fire. Brown on both sides, 
and butter with a little fresh butter. Take four table- 
spoonfuls of fresh, rich cream, salt to taste. Just let 
the cream get hot, then pour over the toast in a 
warmed dish. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 87 

Cheese Toast, with MUk 

Place alternate layers of grated cheese and bread 
in a baking dish, pour over it fresh sweet milk to cover 
and break over the top a teaspoonful of butter. Bake 
ten minutes. Serve hot. 

French Toast 

Use one egg to a cupful of sweet milk; add salt 
and pepper and beat well. Dip slices of bread in this 
and fry quickly in boiling lard. Sift over this a half 
cup of sugar, with a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Toasted Crackers 

Split Boston crackers and toast over a hot fire until 
brown; or butter them lightly and brown them in a 
hot oven. 

Cheese Crackers 

Take fresh snowflake or butter thin crackers ; butter 
and grate cheese lightly over them. Put in oven and 
toast. 

Tomato Toast, No. 1 

Stev>^ a quart of tomatoes until you can mash them 
smooth with a spoon ; season with pepper, salt and one 
teaspoonful of butter, and pour over slices of buttered 
toast. 

Tomato Toast, No. 2 

Mash three large tomatoes, put in a stew pan with 
one teaspoonful of sugar and salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook half hour ; add one teaspoonful of cracker crumbs. 
Remove from the fire as soon as well mixed. Have 
ready light bread toasted in two-inch squares. Place 
in deep, covered dish ; pour over the tomatoes and serve. 

Egg Toast 

Dip stale bread in milk or water that has a little 
salt in it; have ready a batter of two well beaten eggs 
and two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. Dip bread in 
this and fry in boiling lard. 



88 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Tongue Toast 

Mince fine a cold, boiled tongue; mix with a half 
teacupf ul of cream and beaten yolk of an egg ; simmer 
on the stove. Cut slices of bread, toast and butter 
them. Lay in flat dish, cover with tongue and serve 
hot. 

Toast for Soup 

Stale biscuit, cut in half and toasted, are nice with 
chicken soup or broth ; or with other soups when one's 
light bread has given out unexpectedly. 



CORN MEAL BREAD 

Sweet Potato Johnny Cake 

Take one pint of corn meal, and sift with half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Rub into the meal a large tablespoon- 
f ul of lard, next add to it one pint of smoothly mashed 
sweet potatoes. If the potatoes are not very sweet 
add a tablespoonful of sugar. Mix thoroughly to a 
rather soft dough, but not too soft to handle. Have 
the middle stave of a barrel head (oak wood) washed 
clean, rinse it, leaving it wet, and on this evenly spread 
the dough not quite out to the edges of the board. 
Dip a knife blade in cold water and with it smooth over 
the surface of the Johnny cake, and stick it with a fork 
as you would a biscuit. Set it before the fire with a 
brick or flat iron to support it. Let it brown nicely, 
then loosen it from the board by means of a coarse 
thread passed between the Johnny Cake and the board, 
close to the latter. Turn the board over and lay the 
brown side of the Johnny Cake down on it, again setting 
it before the fire to brown the other side. When that 
is done, cut it in three-inch wide pieces — there will be 
about five of them. Send to the table hot from the 
board, butter well and eat immediately. This is a deli- 
cious bread for a winter supper or breakfast. But it 
must be cooked by the reflection of the fire to have 
the genuine Johnny Cake taste. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 89 
Georgia Hoe-Cake 

One quart of meal, a teaspoonful of salt; mix with 
cold water, or buttermilk and soda if preferred. Make 
a very stiff batter; spread half an inch thick on griddle. 
Bake over quick fire. 

Johnny Cake 

Scald white Indian meal which has been sifted, stir 
it thoroughly, add a little salt and cold milk to make it 
thin enough to turn into a baking tin, which must be 
greased to prevent it from sticking. Make it one inch 
thick in the pan and bake in a quick oven. It will 
take about twenty minutes to cook. 

Johnny Cake 

One teacupf ul of flour ; sifted with one teaspoonful 
of baking powder, and one cup of com meal; half a 
teacupful of sugar, one of sour milk in which dissolve 
a half teaspoonful of soda, two eggs, and one table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Mix as one does any l)atter 
bread. 

Hot Corn Bread 

Scald one quart of meal; add to it while hot, a 
tablespoonful of butter. Beat two eggs separately. 
Dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in two tablespoonfuls 
of warm water ; then add to it one pint of sour milk, or 
buttermilk; add it to meal, beat; add next the yolks, 
then white of eggs and one teaspoonful of salt and 
bake in shallow pans for forty minutes. 

Corn Meal Bread Sticks 

Two eggs, one pint of corn meal, half teaspoonful 
(level) of soda, and a level teaspoonful of salt ; one 
pint of thick buttermilk, or clabber. Break the eggs 
into the milk, sift the meal, salt and soda in and beat 
thoroughly; bake in a hot, well greased bread stick 
pan or muffin pan as soon as mixed. 



QO THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

MUFFINS 

To be successful with muffins or batter breads, one 
must mix with care, beat well, have pans well greased 
and a hot oven. Muffin pans made of iron are the 
best. Ten minutes before filling they should be placed 
on top of the range, or stove, one teaspoonf ul of melted 
lard placed in each ring, and allowed to come to the 
boiling point, when a blue smoke arises; then fill the 
rings half full of batter. Let rise on top of the range ; 
then place in the oven and bake until brown. 

Flour Muffins, No. 1 

One pint of buttermilk, one pint of flour, one eggy. 
two tablespoonfuls of melted lard, a level teaspoonf ul 
of soda. Beat the egg two minutes; add half of the 
milk, then the flour, then the rest of the milk ; last, the 
melted lard and one teaspoonful of salt. Bake as di- 
rected at the head of the chapter. 

FIoui- Muffins, No. 2 

Half a pint of unsifted flour, two eggs, half tea- 
spoonful soda, one of baking powder, a pinch of salt, 
half pint of thick buttermilk, or clabber, and a large 
tablespoonful of melted lard. Break the eggs in the 
milk, and sift in the flour, soda, yeast powder, and 
salt. Beat thoroughly, then bake in hot, slightly 
greased, small muffin pans. An iron muffin pan is 
superior to those o^ tin or granite ware. 

Bran Muffins 

% cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 tablespoonful butter powder 

1 tablespoonful lard 2 cupfuls bran 

2 eggs (beaten together) A pinch of salt 

2 cupfuls flour 

Milk and water to make a soft paste to drop off of 
spoon. Add broken walnuts and raisins. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 91 
Delicious Muffins 

Cream until very light one large tablespoonful of 
butter. Beat separately six fresh eggs. Stir the 
butter and yolks together; add one quart of flour and 
one quart of milk in small quantities, beating con- 
stantly. Stir in a heaping teaspoonful of salt and the 
white beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in well greased 
pans, in a very hot oven. Must be served at once. 

Graham Muffins, No. 1 
Break into a bowl one egg; add to this one pint of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of salt and one of sugar; 
then sift in one teacupful of white flour and one of 
graham, with one heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Mix slowly, then beat until smooth; then beat 
in one tablespoonful of melted butter or lard ; heat and 
grease the irons ; fill each ring half full of the batter ; 
let rise on top of the range, and bake in a quick oven. 
Serve at once. 

Graham Muffins, No. 2 

One teacupful of sour milk, or cream, quarter tea- 
cupful of sugar, two of graham flour, teaspoonful 
(level) of soda, one tablespoonful of butter, and one 
egg. 

Nut and Fruit Muffins 

1/^ cupful flour 1-3 cupful walnuts 

3 kvel teaspoonfuls baking 6 dates 

powder 1 ^gg 

% teaspoonful salt % cupful milk 

^ cupful brown sugar 2 tablespoonfuls lard 

1 cupful graham flour (melted) 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and brown 
sugar, add graham flour, nuts cut in pieces, and dates 
washed, stoned and cut in pieces. Mix well, add egg 
beaten well, milk and shortening. Beat thoroughly, 
bake in twelve greased muffin cups in a hot oven for 
eighteen or twenty minutes. 



92 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Nut Graham Muffins 

2 teaspoonfuls baking 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

powder 1 cupful brown sugar 

1 cupful g-rahanj flour 1 cupful nut meats 

2 cupfuls flour (chopped) 
1 teaspoonful soda 1 eg'g 

.1 teaspoonful salt 2 cupfuls sour milk 

Mix flour with graham flour, baking powder, soda 
and salt, sift twice into a basin, add butter and rub it 
in finely with tips of fingers, then add sugar, nuts, eggs 
well beaten, and milk. Mix well and divide into greased 
and floured muffin tins and bake in a moderate oven 
for 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for twenty-four 
muffins. 

Graham Muffins, Made with Yeast 

One teacupful of graham flour, two teacupfuls of 
warm water, half teacupful of liquid yeast, half tea- 
cupful of molasses, a level teaspoonful of soda, and the 
same of salt. Mix the water and molasses, and stir 
into the flour (sift, if desired), add the yeast, then 
the salt and beat five minutes ; then set to rise for six 
hours. Then stir in the sifted soda ; beat one minute, 
put in hot, well-greased muffin rings and cook quickly 
in hot oven. 

Rice Muffins 

Take five tablespoonfuls of corn meal, five table- 
spoonfuls of boiled rice, six tablespoonfuls of flour and 
two eggs, well beaten ; make into a batter, with a tea- 
spoonful of soda, mixed with sour milk enough to 
make a good batter. 

Corn MeaJ Muffins, No. 1 

One egg, well-beaten ; to this add one teacupful of 
buttermilk ; then one pint of corn meal, one teaspoonful 
of salt and another teacupful of buttermilk, with one 
even teaspoonful of soda, sifted and stirred in well. 
Place pans (iron preferred) on top of range or stove; 
place in each division a teaspoonful of melted lard and 
let come to a boiling point; when a blue smoke rises, 
fill each division half full; let rise while on top of 
range; then place in the oven and bake quickly. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 93 

Corn Meal Muffins, No. 2 

One tablespoonful of butter, two teacupf uls of corn 
meal, four eggs, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one level spoonful of salt and three teacupfuls 
of sweet milk. Beat the eggs thoroughly, add the milk, 
then sift in the meal, sugar and baking powder. Beat 
thoroughly, and cook in hot, slightly greased muffin 
pans. 

Gems 

One cup of meal, one cup of flour, one cup of sour 
milk and one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter or lard, one teaspoonful of salt, two-thirds of a 
teaspoonful of soda and two eggs. Beat the eggs, add 
the sugar, then the butter and salt ; next, the milk, with 
the soda dissolved in it; stir in flour and meal; beat 
hard. Bake in quick oven, as directed at the head of 
this chapter. 



- BATTERCAKES 

In making battercakes put the lard to be used in 
the cakes; then grease the griddle one time for the 
first baking. In baking the cakes, to prevent sticking, 
rub the griddle when hot with a dry cloth and a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Never have greasy battercakes. 
They are neither appetizing or healthful. 

Corn Meal Battercakes, No. 1 

One egg, four tablespoonfuls of corn meal, one pint 
of sweet milk and a level teaspoonful of salt. Beat 
the egg one m.inute ; stir in a little meal, then the milk 
and salt, and the rest of the meal. Bake on a hot, well 
greased griddle. The batter must be rather thin to 
make the old-fashioned cakes. 



94 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Com MeaJ Battercakes, No. 2 

Three teacupfuls of corn meal, two eggs, enough 
sour buttermilk to make a moderately stiff batter; 
and soda in the proportion of a level teaspoonful to a 
pint of buttermilk. Beat the eggs a minute, stir in a 
cupful of the milk, sift the meal, stir in well ; add as 
much more milk as is necessary, being sure to measure, 
to be sure of the quantity of soda required. Now sift 
the soda into the batter, salt to taste, beat well and 
bake. They should be baked in a regular battercake 
baker, which molds the cakes, and has a lid or top, 
fitting closely. 

Indian Griddle Cakes 

Scald one pint of yellow^ meal with just sufficient 
boiling water to moisten. Do not make it soft. When 
cold, add one cupful of corn flour, one pint of milk; 
beat and stir in three well beaten eggs; add one tea- 
spoonful of salt and two teaspoonf uls of baking powder. 
Bake on a hot griddle. 

Wheat Bread Sticks 

When making light bread, allow a pint of flour 
extra, to be made into bread sticks for tea or dinner. 
When the bread is ready to set to rise the last time 
take the dough allowed for this, and roll out as for 
biscuit, letting it be four or five inches wide, and half 
an inch thick. Cut this into strips half an inch wide, 
and place a strip in each mold in the bread stick pan. 
Rub over with melted butter and set to rise; when 
they are even with the top of the pan, bake in a 
moderate oven. 

These may be served with a meat course at dinner, 
or for tea or lunch. The iron bread stick pans may be 
purchased at any hardware store, and before using 
should be washed and dried thoroughly, then slightly 
greased. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 95 
Buttermilk Battercakes 

One pint of meal, two-thirds of a pint of flour, one 
tablespoonful of melted lard, one and a half pints of 
buttermilk, one and a half level teaspoonfuls of soda, 
sifted, and one egg. Beat the egg well, add half the 
milk and a teaspoonful of salt. Stir in the meal and 
flour, sifted together; then the rest of the milk, the 
lard, and last, the soda, well sifted. Fry on hot, lightly 
greased griddle. Brown on both sides. 

White Flour Griddle Cakes 

4 level teaspoonfuls baking 3 eggs (separated) 

powder 2 cupfuls milk 

3 level cupfuls flour 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 level teaspoonful salt 

Melt the butter. Mix flour, baking powder and salt 
together, and sift into a basin. Beat up yolks and 
whites of eggs separately. Add yolks to the milk, 
then add the butter. Gradually add the flour and beat 
up into a smooth batter, then fold in whites of eggs. 
Turn batter into a wide-mouthed pitcher and pour 
onto a hot, well greased griddle, to the size of a saucer. 
When nicely browned on one side turn with a cake 
turner. When nicely browned on the other side re- 
move to a hot dish. Serve hot with butter and syrup. 

Sufficient for twenty-five griddle cakes. 

Sweet Milk Battercakes 

Two teacupfuls of flour, one teacupful of meal, two 
eggs, a tablespoonful of melted tod, a teaspoonful of 
salt, two and a half teacupfuls of sweet milk and a 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Now, beat the 
eggs two minutes ; add a little of the flour and meal, 
with which the salt and baking powder, have been 
sifted together; then more milk, then flour, etc., until 
all has been added. Then add the lard and beat thor- 
oughly. Bake on lightly greased, hot griddle. 



d6 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Flour Battercakes 

Beat two eggs two minutes; add one pint of but- 
termilk, a little at a time, alternating with the flour, 
a pint, with which sift a level teaspoonf ul of salt ; when 
all is mixed, add a tablespoonful of melted lard, and 
sift in a level teaspoonf ul of soda; beat thoroughly and 
bake on a hot, slightly greased griddle. 

Breadcrumb Battercakes 

One teacupful of sweet milk, half a teacupful of 
bread crumbs and one egg; soak the crumbs for one 
hour in the milk ; add the eggy beaten separately, very 
light and a tablespoonful of flour. Bake on a griddle, 
slightly greased, and eat with sugar or syrup. 

Hominy Cakes 

Take one cupful of boiled hominy, one egg, well 
beaten, one tablespoonful of sifted flour, one teacupful 
of sweet milk, salt to taste, one teaspoonful of melted 
butter or lard; mix well and fry on a hot, slightly 
greased griddle. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

Two cupf uls of dark buckwheat flour, half a teacup- 
ful of corn meal, a half teacupful of liquid yeast, or 
half a cake of dry or compressed yeast, two teacupiuls 
of warm water, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of molasses, or syrup, and a level teaspoonful of 
soda. Sift the flour and meal together; dissolve or 
mix, if liquid, the yeast in the water, which should be 
milk- warm ; stir into the flour and meal ; add the salt, 
pour in earthen bowl, jar or crock; cover with a thick 
cloth, or top ; set in place where it will keep warm all 
night. It should rise and fall by morning, when add 
the level teaspoonful of soda, sifted, the egg, and the 
molasses. Try before sending to the table; if sour, 
add more soda, a pinch at a time, until sweet. The 
batter should be thoroughly beaten at night and when 
adding the soda in the morning. The molasses makes 
the cakes brown nicely. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 97 

Good Flour Battercakes 

One pint of flour, one of thick buttermilk, one egg, 
half of a level teaspoonful of soda, one level teaspoon- 
fulof salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and three 
tablespoonfuls of melted lard. Break the egg into a 
bowl, pour in the milk and sift into this the flour, the 
baking powder, and the soda; beat thoroughly, then 
stir in the lard. 



HOMINY AND MUSH 

Big Hominy or Lye Hominy 

Select firm, white corn ; shell four quarts. Put this 
into a pot with a quart of lye, made of good hickory 
or oak ashes, or a quart of hardwood ashes, tied in a 
bag and water to cover the corn. If the lye is weak 
use without water. Boil until the eyes and husks will 
rub oflf the grains. Plunge into cold water and wash 
and scrub until the corn is white and clean. Boil in 
plenty of clean, cold water, adding salt, a rounding 
teaspoonful to each quart. Cook until every grain is 
tender. Put away in covered jars and when needed 
heat in a slightly greased, hot frying pan. Add butter 
and pepper, and serve hot. 

Lye hominy makes a delicious accompaniment to 
fresh pork. 

Lye Hominy Fritters 

Make a batter of half a cupful of sifted bread 
crumbs, two well beaten eggs and a half teacupful of 
sweet milk. Stir in enough hominy to make a stiff 
paste ; add salt and pepper to taste. Make into cakes 
and fry in boiling lard. 

Fine Grits Boiled 

Wash one pint of very fine grits through two 
waters. Pour over two quarts of boiling water and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil one hour at least, stirring 
frequently and thoroughly. Be careful not to let it 
scorch. 



98 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Baked Hominy^ No. 1 

Two teacupfuls of boiled hominy, one teacupful of 
sweet milk, two well beaten eggs, a pinch of salt and a 
little butter. Mix well, pour in a baking dish and bake 
in a hot oven, a delicate brown. 

Baked Hominy, No. 2 

Prepare as for croquettes, add one cupful of nuts, 
finely chopped, place in a baking pan, dust with bread 
crumbs and place small piece of butter on crumbs and 
bake. 

Fried Hominy 

Boil hominy, put in a dish, or mold ; when cold and 
hard, cut in thin slices, dip in a flour batter, or meal^ 
and fry in boiling lard. An Qg^ added to the batter 
adds to the appearance of the hominy, making it a 
more delicate brown. 

Mush 

To one teacupful of corn meal, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt; moisten with cold water. Place on a fire, 
in a frying pan, five teacupfuls of boiling water; stir 
in meal, stirring constantly for fifteen minutes; then 
place on back of stove, to bubble steadily, one hour. 
Serve with butter, or milk and sugar if liked. 

Com Meal Gruel for Invalids 

Two tablespoonfuls of meal, sifted, four teacupfuls 
of boiling water, which has been placed in a stew pan, 
over the fire. Stir in slowly the meal. Boil one hour, 
stirring constantly the first fifteen minutes, then oc- 
casionally until done. 



OATMEAL 

Wash well in cold water to get out all trash. To one 
teacupful of oatmeal add two even teaspoonfuls of salt 
and one quart of water, hot or cold. Place in a por- 
celain lined kettle, or boiler if possible. When it be- 
gins to thicken, stir well ; then let boil for three hours 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 99 

without further attention, except to see that it does 
not scorch, keeping it closely covered. Serve when 
done in a covered dish; and at table with milk and 
sugar if liked, or butter. 

Rolled Oats 

Put two teacupf uls of rolled oats in a double boiler ; 
add one teaspoonful of salt and four teacupfuls of 
boiling water ; boil half hour and serve with cream or 
sweet milk and sugar, or with butter. 

Oatmeal Fried 

Put oatmeal, which has been cooked, into a mold 
wet with cold water. Let it stand until thoroughly- 
cold; slice and roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry- 
in boiling lard. Serve with butter and sugar or syrup. 

Oatmeal Pudding 

Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal in a half 
teacupf ul of sweet milk; add to it two teacupfuls of 
boiling sweet milk. Sweeten to taste, and stir over 
the fire for ten minutes ; then add two ounces of sifted 
bread crumbs; stir until stiff, then add one ounce of 
butter, and one or two well beaten eggs. Flavor with 
lemon or nutmeg, and bake in buttered dish slowly one 
hour. 

Oatmeal Muffins, No. 1 

To one eggy beaten well, add one teacupful of oat- 
meal flour, in which a teaspoonful of baking powder 
has been sifted. Bake in hot, well greased muffin pans. 

Oatmeal Muffins, No. 2 

Mix two teacupfuls of sour milk, or buttermilk, with 
two of oatmeal flour; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and one even teaspoonful of soda, the same of salt. 
Sift the soda and mix with half the milk and add last. 
Beat well and bake in hot, well greased muffin rings. 



100 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

OatmeaJ Gruel 

Half a teacupful of Quaker oats to one quart of 
boiling water, level teaspoonf ul of salt ; wet the oatmeal 
with cold water, then stir into the boiling water. Boil 
slowly, half an hour, or until done, stirring well. 
Strain if desired. 

Boiled Oatmeal 

To one teacupful of oatmeal or rolled oats add one 
cupful of cold water and one even teaspoonful of salt. 
Place over the fire a stew pan, containing five teacup- 
f uls of boiling water ; pour in slowly the oatmeal, stir- 
ring constantly for fifteen minutes ; then cover and set 
back where it will bubble steadily two hours. 



CANAPES 

Canapes are made by cutting one-quarter inch slices 
of bread into squares, diamonds or circles. These 
pieces are then dusted lightly with butter and browned 
in the oven or fried in deep fat until a golden brown. 
They are then covered with a seasoned mixture of eggs, 
forcemeat or cheese. They are served hot or cold and 
usually take the place of oysters at dinner or luncheon. 

Anchovy Canapes 

6 anchovies Few grains cayenne 

2 hard boiled eggs V2 teaspoonful lemon juice 

4 tablespoonfuls butter 6 slices bread 

1/4 teaspoonful salt 

Wash and bone the anchovies, pound them to a 

paste with the egg yolks, butter and seasonings; fry 

the bread, spread with the above paste; and sprinkle 

over them the whites of eggs chopped very fine. 

Ham Canapes 

% cup minced ham 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Mix the ham, butter and seasonings to a smooth 

paste ; cut the bread into circles, fry brown and spread 

with the bam mixture. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 101 

Cheese Canapes 

1 cup grated cheese Few grains pepper 
V4, teaspoonful salt 6 slices bread 

Cut the bread into circular pieces, sprinkle with a 

layer of grated cheese, season with salt and pepper; 

place on a baking sheet and bake in the oven or under 

the gas flame until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

Clam Toast 

2 doz. small clams 8 slices toast (buttered) 
2 eggs (yolks) 14 teaspoonful salt 

V2 cupful milk (scalded) 

Clean the clams and cut into small pieces; simmer 
a few minutes. Beat the egg yolks, add slowly to the 
scalded milk, combine with clams ; add seasoning, pour 
over buttered toast on a hot platter. 

Tomato Toast 

2 tomatoes A slice of onion 

2 eggs 1/4 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful butter % teaspoonful pepper 

1/4 cup minced Hiam 6 rounds buttered toast 

Skin the tomatoes and chop; mince the onion and 

mix with the meat and tomatoes. Cook them with the 

butter in a saucepan about ten minutes, remove from 

the fire, add the beaten eggs, stir over the fire until 

it sets, then serve on the toast. 

Caviar Canape 

Toast one slice of bread and spread with caviar. 
Put a thin slice of hard boiled egg on top. 



102 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



SOUPS 



To make good soups one must use lean, juicy meats ; 
those with a good deal of bone giving the best flavor. 
The shin of a beef, with the bone well broken, or a 
knuckle of veal, makes the best beef soup. The pro- 
portion of water used, is one quart to each pound of 
meat. More may be added, if a rich soup is not de- 
sired. The meat should always be put on in cold 
water. When the water begins to boil, a scum will rise, 
which must be removed. When it looks clear, add the 
vegetables and seasoning. If more scum arises, re- 
move it. Keep the vessel well covered. All soups must 
boil gently. Three or four hours is the length of time 
required for boiling meat soups. It is a good idea to 
make broth, or stock, once or twice a week in winter, 
thus saving the cook unnecessary trouble. Then, a 
good meat soup may be prepared in a short time — 
say half an hour. 

Thin soup with boihng water; cold water injures 
the flavor. Vegetable soups are very popular and are 
easily and quickly made. 

A large soup bone may be used twice (boiled two 
days in succession) and the soup is said to be better 
the second day. 

The vegetables used in soups are corn, okra, toma- 
toes, onions, English peas, celery, asparagus, butter- 
beans, turnips, salsify, carrots, and Irish potatoes. 
The latter should be boiled before putting them in soup ; 
the water in which they are boiled is considered un- 
wholesome. To thicken soup use rice flour, bread or 
cracker crumbs, arrowroot, macaroni and eggs. Herbs 
most used for seasoning are parsley, thyme, sage, bay 
leaves, sweet basil, summer and winter savory. Spices : 
cloves, mace (or nutmeg) allspice, paprika, black, white 
and cayenne pepper. Clear strained soup, or bouillon, 
with the unbeaten white of an egg. To do this, remove 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 103 
the vessel from the fire, stir in the egg, let boil up, 
sltiin d>iid serve. 

One tablespoonf ul of raw rice may be added to soup 
when first put on to boil. The rice should be thor- 
oughly done, and when the soup is done, remove meats 
and herbs, but do not strain out the rice. 

Serve with vegetable soups plain white bread, sliced 
daintily; with consomme or bouillon may be served 
croutons, bread sliced thin, cut in fancy shapes and 
toasted, water biscuit, butter crackers or small bread 
sticks. 

Seasanings 
Sweet herbs, such as thyme, savory, marjoram, 
parsley, etc., may be dried in the fall and kept in air- 
tight cans. Celery roots or dried celery leaves are 
richer in flavor than the stalk. Celery seed or celery 
salt may be used instead of these. Spices, includmg 
cloves, allspice, whole pepper and stick cinnamon should 
always be kept on hand. Flour, com starch, arrow- 
root, tapioca, sago, pearl barley, rice, bread, or eggs 
are added to soups to give consistency and nourishment. 



SOUP STOCK 

Brown Stock 

Browr^ in a soup kettle two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
to which add, cut into small pieces, tw^o pounds of lean 
beef and an equal amount of the meat from a knuckle 
of veal Stir over the fire five minutes, then cover 
closely and stew gently for half an hour. Add two 
quarts of cold water to this, and let the whole simmer 
for four hours. Cut an onion, a small carrot and a 
stalk of celery into dice and add these and a sprig ot 
parsley to the stock, and cook very slowly for an hour 
longer. Strain through a fine sieve, and when cold re- 
move the fat which will have caked upon the top. 



104 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

To prepare for serving, let the stock come to a boil, 
add salt and pepper to taste and the beaten white and 
shell of one egg, thoroughly mixed with a cup of cold 
water; boil hard for ten minutes. Throw in another 
half cup of cold water, let the soup boil again for five 
minutes, strain into a heated tureen and serve with very 
small squares of toasted bread. 

Vegetable Stock 

The water in which vegetables have been boiled is 
rich in mineral salts and flavoring. This is known as 
vegetable stock and should be used whenever possible. 
Water in which macaroni, rice, barley, etc., are cooked 
is rich in starch and sugar products and should be 
retained for soup. 

White Stock 

Take one fowl, weighing three or four pounds ; three 
quarts cold water ; one tablespoonf ul salt ; one teaspoon- 
ful white pepper and two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
celery. 

Singe the fowl and wash the outside thoroughly. 
Cut off the legs and wings ; cut through the thin flesh 
below the end of the breast-bone down to the backbone 
on each side, then separate the back from the breast at 
the joint, and remove all the internal organs. Do not 
forget the kidneys lying in the hollow of the side bone, 
and the lungs in the ribs. This is the quickest way 
to dress a fowl when it is not served whole. Separate 
the neck and ribs from the breast. Wash each piece 
quickly in warm water, using a little soda or charcoal, 
if there be any sour or tainted odor. Put all but the 
breast on to boil in cold water. Let it come to a boil 
quickly (because we wish to use the meat as well as the 
water) and remove the scum. Then add the breast, 
also the salt and vegetables. Let it cook gently but 
continuously until the meat is tender; the time depends 
upon the age of the fowl. Skim out the chicken, re-t 
move the meat from the bones and lay it aside to be 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 105 

used for croquettes, salads or other made dishes. Put 
the bones, skin, and any inferior portion of the meat 
into the liquor again, and simmer until the bones are 
clean, the gelatinous parts are dissolved and the water 
is reduced one-half. Strain through a fine strainer and 
set away where it can cool quickly. It should form a 
jelly when cold, and, if the fat is not removed, it will 
keep for several days. This is the stock for the basis 
of a great many delicious soups. 

Glaze 

Glaze is simply clear stock boiled down to one-fourfh 
of its original amount. Put 2 quarts of rich, strong 
stock into a saucepan and boil it uncovered until re- 
duced to 1 pint. It should have a gluey consistency 
and will keep for a month if closely covered and placed 
in a cool place. It is useful for browning meats. 

Thickening Soups 

Soups are thickened with flour, cornstarch, or rice 
flour. Mix the flour with a very little cold water or 
milk until it is a smooth paste. Then add more liquid 
until it can be poured easily into the hot soup. Cook 
tlie soup fifteen or twenty minutes after thickening is 
added. 

Where butter and flour are used melt the butter and 
when melted and bubbling stir in the flour quickly; 
cook together. Then add gradually about a cupful of 
the hot soup ; let it cook, thicken, and then stir it into 
the hot soup. Cook fifteen minutes. 

Soup may be thickened with bread instead of flour. 
The bread should be dried and browned slightly and 
added to a small amount of stock, simmered until soft 
and crushed. Then dilute with more soup. One-half 
cupful of dried bread for a quart of finished soup is 
quite as thick as most people like. Rye bread is excel- 
lent for this purpose. 



106 THE NEW ANNIE DBNNJS COOK BOOK 

CLEAR SOUP 

To Clear Soup 

Allow the white and shell of 1 egg for each quart 
of stock. Break the egg, beat slightly ; break shell in 
small pieces, and add to the cold stock. Set over the 
fire, stirring constantly until boiling point is reached. 
Boil two minutes, simmer twenty minutes, skim, strau 
through double thickness of white cheesecloth placed 
over a fine sieve. This is now ready to serve as clear 
soup, simply heating to the boiling point. If you wish 
to season soup m.ore highly add seasoning to stock be- 
fore clearing. 

Tomato Soup 

The contents of one large can of tomatoes put into a 
stew pan with as much boiling water and let come to a 
boil ; take off and strain ; put over the fire again. In a 
small pan put one tablespoonful of flour, one of butter, 
one of sugar, half an onion and a spray of parsley ; chop 
all together, and let it brown, but be careful not to 
burn ; turn this into the tomatoes, mix thoroughly and 
strain. Serve with squares of toast on top. 

Carrot Soup a la Cressy 

Put three ounces of butter into a sauce pan and as 
it melts add a large onion, finely chopped, four ounces of 
lean ham, cut in tiny dice, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped celery and the red part of twelve carrots, 
grated. Stew over a moderate fire, stirring frequently, 
until the vegetables acquire a nice color, then add two 
quarts of well flavored stock and simmer for about two 
hours. Skim carefully, pass the soup and as much of 
the vegetables as possible, through a sieve, pressing 
the pulp through with the back of a wooden spoon; 
then season to taste, with cayenne and salt, reheat and 
serve, with a handful of toasted dice thrown in just 
as it is turned into the tureen. ^ 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 107 

Chicken Soup 

Put on a young chicken, which has been well 
cleansed and washed, in two quarts of cold water, and 
let it boil steadily until the liquid is reduced to one 
quart. From time to time, after it begins to boil, skim 
it carefully so that no scum is left on it. About ten 
minutes before removing it from the fire, throw into it 
a small sprig of thyme and one or two sprigs of parsley, 
and season to taste with salt. If herbs are objected 
to, substitute chipped celery. When removed from the 
boiler, skim off all the grease, and strain out the meat 
and herbs and serve the soup clear. 

Consomme 

This is a very rich white stock, flavored with the 
usual flavoring vegetables— onions, celery, etc. — and 
made beautifully clear by the addition of either raw 
beef, or white of egg. When carefully strained, and 
put into the tureen ready for sending to table, drop on 
the surface of the soup some delicately prepared crou- 
tons. 

Cold Bouillon 

Cook a large chicken in water enough to leave one 
quart of broth when the chicken is quite tender. Sea- 
son the broth with salt and pepper. Strain into bouil- 
lon eups and put on ice to congeal. When serving place 
crushed ice in the saucers. 

Bouillon, No. 1 
Put in a pot three pounds of a shin of beef, one 
pound of a knuckle of veal, three quarts of water and 
simmer gently. As soon as the scum begins to rise, 
skim carefully until it ceases to appear. Then add salt 
to taste, half teaspoonful of onion juice, and a little 
celery. Simmer gently four hours, strain and sei-ve it 
in bouillon cups. 



108 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Bouillan, No. 2 

Take four pounds of beef from the middle of the 
round, two pounds bone, two quarts cold water, one 
tablespoonful salt, four peppers, four cloves, one table- 
spoonful mixed herbs. Wipe and cut the meat and 
bones into small pieces ; add the water and heat slowly ; 
add the seasoning and simmer five hours. Boil down 
-to three pints ; strain, remove the fat and season with 
salt and pepper. Boil one onion, half a carrot, and a 
half a turnip with it if you like. Serve in cups at 
luncheons, evening companies, etc. 

[ Essence of Beef Soup 

Essence of beef is usually in the form of a soft paste. 
To a pint of boiling water allow a teaspoonful of the 
essence, a scanty teaspoonful of celery salt and a salt- 
spoonful of white and black pepper. This makes a very 
delicious, clear soup. If a very rich soup be desired, 
increase the quantity of essence to taste. Macaroni 
paste, rice or a thickening may be added as for any 
beef soup, and a teaspoonful of catsup or of some good 
sauce will greatly improve the flavor for some palates. 
Bouillon for afternoon receptions and for invalids may 
be made in this way. 

Clam Broth 

Purchase a dozen large clams in the shells. Scrub 
them thoroughly with a brush, place them in kettle 
with a pint of cold water and cover. As soon as the 
shells have opened remove them from the broth, and 
take out the clams, to be served next day en coquille. 
Let the broth settle, strain if necessary, reheat it, add 
a little red pepper or paprika (the latter is delicious), 
and serve hot. Twelve good-sized clams should make 
enough broth for six persons, but if there does not 
seem to be sufficient, add a little boiling milk or water, 
A very dainty effect may be produced by placing a 
heaping teaspoonful of whipped cream on top of each 
plateful of broth, if for dinner, or of each cupful, if for 
luncheon. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 109 

CREAM SOUP 

Rice Soup 

Put to boil half a teacupful of rice in a quart of 
milk. When thoroughly done, strain, pressing the rice 
through the sieve also, and add the yolks of two eggs, 
a tablespoonful of fresh butter, half a teacupful of 
cream and salt and pepper to taste. 

Puree of Chestnuts 

1 pt. chestnuts 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 pt. milk 1 egg 

1 cupful cream Salt and pepper 

Scald the milk. Shell and blanch the chestnuts. 
Cook until very soft in boiling salted water to cover. 
Mash them in the water left in the pan, and rub them 
through a fine strainer into the scalded milk. Add 
the cream, salt, pepper and butter. Heat, and when 
ready to serve stir the beaten egg in quickly and serve 
at once with croutons. 

Cerealine Soup 

Into a pint of boiling milk slowly sift half a cupful 
of cerealine, a teaspoonful of celery salt and a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and boil for ten minutes, taking care 
it does not scorch. Put the mixture through a soup 
strainer, and return it to the kettle. Pour in a scanty 
cupful of cream, and as soon as the liquid boils turn it 
slowly into the soup tureen, in which has already been 
placed the well beaten yolk of an egg. Stir the soup 
while pouring it, and send it to the table with hot 
croutons or with Boston crackers that have been but- 
tered and browned in the oven. Sometimes a teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice and a saltspoonful of plain salt can 
be used instead of the celery salt; and sometimes a 
teaspoonful of dried and pulverized parsley or a larger 
quantity of chopped fresh parsley may be used. 



110 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Oyster Stew 

For one quart of oysters place two quarts of fresh 
sweet milk over the fire to boil. Drain the liquor from 
the oysters and strain it into the milk. Just before 
the milk boils, stir in one teaspoonful of salt, a large 
pinch of black pepper and a dessertspoonful of butter. 
When the mixture boils up well, turn in the oysters. 
When the oysters come to the surface, the stew is ready 
to serve. If liked, just before turning into the tureen 
a coffee-cupful of crushed oyster crackers may be 
stirred into the stew. Serve with whole oyster crack- 
ers and celery. 

Mock Oyster Soup 

To one quart of fresh tomatoes, or three pounds of 
canned, add one quart of water, and boil one hour. 
Just before serving add one quart of boiling sweet miik^ 
one teaspoonful of salt, sugar and butter, a pinch 
of soda, and white pepper to taste. 

Asparagus Soup 

Wash two large bunches of asparagus, chip fine, put 
in a boiler with one teaspoonful of salt, and cover with 
boiling water. Let boil half an hour. Put three pints 
of fresh milk on to boil, and as soon as it boils, add the 
asparagus, with the water it was boiled in. Rub a 
tablespoonful of butter, with one of flour, add to the 
milk and stir until thick. Season with salt and pepper 
and serve. The asparagus must be young and tender. 

Cream of Pea Soup 

One pint of canned peas, one pint of cream, one 
tablespoonful of butter ; salt and white pepper to taste. 
Strain and mash the peas in a pan; fill the can with 
boiling water ; pour on the peas, place over the fire and 
let come to a boil. Pour in the cream, and stir in the 
butter, salt and pepper. Serve with whipped cream 
and squares of toast. If preferred, the soup may be 
strained. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK HI 

Cream of Potato Soup 

IVz cupfuls mashed potatoes 2 tablespoonfuls flour 
4 cupfuls milk IVz teaspoonfuls salt 

1 small onion % teaspoonful butter 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Combine the potato (which may be left over) with 
the milk and the onion, and cook it in a double boiler 
for twenty minutes. Then remove the onion, add the 
seasonings and thicken the soup with the butter and 
flour creamed together. 

Tomato Bisque 

2 cupfuls canned tomatoes 1 teaspoonful salt 

3^ tablespoonfuls flour Vz teaspoonful onion juice 

2 tablespoonfuls butter ^A teaspoonful celery salt 

% tablespoonful baking soda 1% cupfuls milk 

Heat the tomato and thicken it with the butter 

and flour rubbed together. Then add the soda and 

reasonings, and the milk, heated. Serve with croutons. 

Cream Pea Soup 

One pint can of French peas; one pint of cream. 
Strain the peas and mash them in a pan; fill the can 
with boiling water, pour into the peas and let come 
to a boil. Pour in the cream and stir in one table- 
spoonful of butter. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Whip half a pint of cream and put on top, when ready 
to serve. Serve with squares of toasted bread. 

Green Pea Soup 

To make a good green pea soup, boil in a kettle one 
quart of sweet milk, which thicken with one table- 
spoonful of flour, mixed to a smooth paste, with a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter; season with a tiny 
piece of onion, a little pepper and a saltspoonful of salt. 
In another kettle have the contents of a can of green 
peas which have been boiled until they can be easily 
crushed through a colander into the boiling milk ; stir 
all well together, and serve with small rings of toast 
or cheese straws. 



2 


cupfuls peas (ground) 


11/2 


1 


pt. milk 


y* 


1 


pt. water 


V2 


1 


sprig parsley 


2 


1 


slice of onion 


3 



112 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Cream of Pea Soup 

teaspoonfuls salt 
teaspoonful pepper 
teaspoonful sugar 
tablespoonfuls butter 
tablespoonfuls flour 

The onion and parsley may be put through the food- 
chopper with the peas. Combine these vegetable with 
the water and simmer until the peas are tender, re- 
plenishing the water as it evaporates. Add the milk 
and seasoning, and thicken with the butter and flour 
which have been creamed together. Let them boil for 
a moment or two. If desired, the vegetables may be 
strained out. The vegetable flavor is much more pro- 
nounced and the food-value greatly enhanced by this 
new method of making. 

Clam Chowder With Milk or Tomato 

2 medium sized onions 1 tablespoonful flour 

3 tablespoonfuls salt pork 1 tablespoonful butter 

(cubed) 1 pt. milk or 

1 qt. boiling water 1 pt. canned tomatoes 

1 qt. clams "hi teaspoonful salt 

1 pt. sliced potatoes 

Put the pork in the soup kettle and slowly try out 

the fat. Then add the onions, chopped; cook gently 

for three minutes, add the water and, when boiling, 

the clams, potatoes, and seasonings. Simmer thirty 

minutes and thicken with the flour and butter rubbed 

together. Then add the milk, or tomato, whichever is 

used, let cook a few moments and serve. If desired, a 

lialf cupful of corn, or chopped carrot may be added 

with the potatoes. 

Salsify Soup, No. 1 

Wash and scrape a quart of salsify roots and boil 
until tender in three pints of salted water; then add 
one pint of sweet milk or cream, a teaspoonful heaping 
full of butter and pepper to taste. This makes a soup 
almost as good as oyster. Thicken with flour if pre- 
ferred. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 113 
Salsify Soup, No. 2 

Scrape two dozen salsify or oyster-plant roots, cut 
into slices, put in a saucepan, and cover with boiling, 
salted water. Let boil until tender. Add three pints 
of new milk. Rub two ounces of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour together, and stir into the boiling 
soup. Season with salt and a dash of cayenne, strain 

and serve. 

Bean Soup 

Wash a pint of navy beans and soak over night. In 
the morning drain, put in a soup kettle with three pints 
of boiling water, let simmer until the beans are tender. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan, set 
on the fire to melt, add a shced onion, a sprig of parsley, 
fry until brown, and turn into the soup kettle. Simmer 
half an hour, press through a sieve, boil again, season 
with salt and pepper and serve. 

Celery Soup 

Two heads of celery, one quart of milk, one cup of 
rice, veal or chicken broth, pepper and salt. Grate or 
cut fine the celery, and boil it in the milk with the rice 
very slowly till done; adding more milk if too thick; 
then add an equal quantity of veal or chicken broth ; 
pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot with toast 
cut in dice shape, or strain and serve in bouillon cups, 
placing in each a ring of green pepper. With this 
serve small, round snowflake crackers. 

Duchess Soup 

Put three pints of milk into a boiler, and set on the 
fire; add one small carrot sliced, one silver-skinned 
onion chopped, a blade of mace, and four whole cloves. 
Rub a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour together. 
Strain the milk, return it to the boiler, add the butter 
and flour, with four ounces of grated cheese. Stir, 
take from the fire, season with salt and pepper, and add 
the beaten yolks of four eggs. Let come to a boil 
and serve. 



114 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Delicious Corn Soup 

Take eight ears of corn, cut the grains and scrape 
well; in winter, a can of corn will do; put in a sauce 
pan with a teacupful of water, cover the vessel and 
cook until the corn is tender. Meanwhile put in an- 
other saucepan, a heaping teaspoonful of butter; let 
this melt; sift in a tablespoonful of flour; let brown 
slightly, and add half a cup of water; then stir into 
this one quart of sweet milk. Let come to a boil, pour 
into the corn, let boil up once, salt and pepper to taste 
and serve with small heart rings of toast. If desired, 
strain and clear with white of egg, as directed at the 
head of the chapter. 

Potato Soup 

Take a half dozen medium-sized potatoes, pare, and 
put on to boil in a quart of cold water. When half 
done, drain and cover with a pint of fresh boiling water. 
Add a sprig of parsley, a stalk of celery, a slice of 
onion, and let boil until the potatoes are done. Put 
three pints of new milk on to boil. Press the potatoes 
through a sieve. Rub a ta/blespoonf ul each of flour and 
butter together, and stir into the boiling milk. Pour 
over the potatoes, stir until smooth, season with salt 
and pepper, and serve immediately. This soup may be 
made rich by first placing two thoroughly beaten eggs 
in the tureen and pouring the hot liquid over them, 
stirring very rapidly meanwhile. 

White Soup 

One quart of white stock ; one pint of cream or milk ; 
one heaping tablespoonful of corn starch, or two table- 
spoonfuls of flour; one saltspoonful of white pepper; 
one-quarter saltspoonful of cayenne; one scant tea- 
spoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of butter. 

Remove every globule of fat from the stock and put 
it on to boil with the milk or cream, in a granite pan. 
Mix the salt and pepper with the flour or starch. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan ; v^rhen bubbling, add the flour 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 115 

mixture and stir thoroughly until well mixed and 
foamy. Dip out a little of the boiling stock and stir it 
into the butter; stir rapidly as it thickens quickly, 
then add more stock and stir until it is smooth and 
free from lumps. Keep on adding stock until it is 
thin enough to pour easily, then turn the whole into 
the remainder of the stock and mix it thoroughly. If 
it is too thick, add a little more stock or milk, and if 
too thin, reduce it by longer boiling, or add one egg. 

The egg should be well beaten in a large bowl, and 
a cupful of the hot soup poured into it and well mixed. 
Then strain it into the hot tureen, and strain the 
remainder of the hot soup into it. If the beaten egg is 
stirred directly into the Qiot soup over the fire it will 
curdle. Add more seasoning if needed, and if celery 
was not used in making the stock, add a little celery 
now, if the flavor is liked. 

This soup should be thick and smooth like thin 
cream, without a suspicion of fat, and so delicately 
seasoned that the chicken flavor is not disguised. 
Serve with crisped crackers. 

Chicken Soup 

When making chicken salad, one may have a deli- 
cious soup by using the water in which the chicken 
was boiled, with sweet milk added in the proportion of 
one pint of milk to three pints of broth. If there are 
not three pints of broth, make it up with boiling water. 
Thicken with rice, cooking small quantity of rice in the 
soup twenty or thirty minutes before serving ; if liked, 
add a little celery chopped fine (or celery salt, or 
bruised seed) and a very little onion juice; stir in one 
teaspoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. 
This is delicious. 

Crab Gumbo 

Use recipe for chicken gumbo, using crabs instead 
of chicken. 



116 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Chicken Gumbo, No. 1 

Put in a soup pot one tablespoonful of sifted flour, 
and the same of butter ; let it become a rich brown ; add 
one chicken, cut up and season with salt, pepper, onion 
and a little tomato. Pour into this two quarts of hot 
water; let boil two hours. Thirty minutes before serv- 
ing add one quart of oysters, one tablespoonful of 
mashed bay leaves, and one tablespoonful of butter. 
Serve hot. 

Chicken Gumbo, No. 2 

One small chicken, one-half pound ham (boiled) one 
quart okra, three tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls flour, 
two onions, one red pepper, one green pepper, one bay 
leaf, three quarts of boiling water, salt to season. Boil 
chicken until tender, remove the bones and add the ham 
chopped fine. Cut in small pieces the onion, okra, to- 
matoes, peppers and bay leaf, and put in the boiler with 
chicken and ham. Pour over the boiling water, salt 
to taste, and when cooked two hours slowly, stir in the 
flour after it has been dissolved in water. Stir to pre- 
vent burning and serve hot with rice. 

Turtle Soup 

Boil the turtle until very tender; remove all bones, 
cut the meat in small pieces ; season with a teaspoonf ul 
each of thyme and parsley, pepper and salt to taste, one 
nutmeg, grated, one dozen cloves, and same of whole 
allspice. Tie these in thin muslin and remove before 
sending to table ; stir a tablespoonful of browned flour 
into a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; add this to 
the soup ; pour over it five quarts of water and reduce it 
by boiling to three ; boil gently. A quarter of an hour 
before it is done, add the green fat, half a pint of wine, 
a lemon sliced thin, the seeds removed ; add forcemeat 
balls ; after simmering five minutes, remov^ the lemon 
peel. This is for a small turtle; if not fat, a good slice 
of ham may be added, remove before serving. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 117 
Mock Turtle Soup 

Clean and wash thoroughly the head and two feet 
of a calf. Substitute these for the turtle in the preced- 
ing recipe. 

Celery Soup 

Take the liquor that a large fat chicken has been 
boiled in, and break into it five or six blades of celery, 
and let boil for one hour. Then add to one quart of 
this liquor two quarts of fresh sweet milk, and one 
heaping teaspoonful of flour that has been beaten 
smooth in a half cup of cold water. Let boil two or 
three minutes; strain, and serve with teaflake crackers. 

Mock Bisque, No. 1 

Put a quart of canned or fresh tomatoes in a sauce- 
pan with a sprig of parsley, a blade of mace, a thm 
slice of onion and a teaspoonful of salt. Let stew tit^ 
teen minutes. Put a quart of milk on to boil; thicken 
with one tablespoonf ul of flour rubbed to a smooth paste 
with one of butter and stirred in flour. Press the toma- 
toes through a sieve. Add a pinch of baking soda and 
a teaspoonful of sugar with the boiling milk. Stir, and 
serve immediately. 

Mock Bisque, No. 2 

One quart can of tomatoes, one pint of hot water, 
one level teaspoonful of soda, one cup of cream sauce 
and one of sweet milk. Rub the tomatoes through a 
strainer, adding the hot water slowly. For the cream 
sauce, use one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour, one 
cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of salt, a little white 
pepper. Melt the butter ; when hot and bubbling, add 
the flour, cook until frothy, stirring all the time. Add 
slowly the milk, let all come to the boiling point and it 
is ready for use. To the strained tomatoes, add the 
soda, one cup of hot mik and the cream sauce. Let 
all reach the boiling point and serve immediately. It 
cooked too long it curdles. 



118 THE l^EW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Bisque of Lobster 

Wash, boil and open two hen lobsters ; cut the meat 
into small pieces. Break the shells and small claws; 
put in a saucepan with a quart of boiling water. Pound 
and mix the spawn, the fat, part of the coral, two ounces 
of the lobster meat, an ounce of butter, and two of flour 
until reduced to a pulp. Strain the liquor from the 
saucepan over the pulp, gradually mixing it; season 
with a little salt and cayenne, add the remainder of 
the meat, and the coral rubbed fine, and serve immedi- 
ately. 



SWEET SOUP 

Almost all of the sweet soups have wine as an 
important ingredient, generally claret, as white wine, 
beer and even champagne are strong enough to make a 
soup themselves. 

Apple Soup 

A favorite soup from its simplicity and cheapness 
is apple soup. The apples are pared and cooked as for 
apple sauce, then rubbed through a sieve, flavored with 
claret, about half a pint to six or eight apples ; nutmeg, 
sugar, grated lemon peel (a drop or two of the juice 
is pleasant), and then a few crumbs of toasted bread 
may be added. Strain and serve. 

Soup of White Wine 

A soup of white wine and chocolate is made by 
boiling a bottle of wine, with half as much water, then 
pouring in a quarter of a pound of melted chocolate, 
and a tablespoonf ul of sugar ; stir the soup till it comes 
to a boil again, thicken with the yolks of three eggs 
and pour over toast and serve. Scuppernong wine may 
be used for this. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 119 

Champagne Soup 

Set the contents of a bottle of champagne over the 
jire till it boils, put in the grated peel and the juice of 
one lemon and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Beat 
the yolks of ten eggs in a deep saucepan, pour the 
champagne slowly in, set the whole over a slow fire and 
beat it until it foams. 

Strawberry Soup 

Take half a box of berries, the small wild berries 
are the best, stew them with one quart of water, half 
cup of grated bread crumbs, one stick of cinnamon 
and a small piece of lemon peel, for three-quarters of 
an hour. Meanwhile take the remaining berries, let 
them come to a boil in a thin syrup of sugar and beat 
the yolks of two eggs in half cup of claret. When the 
soup has cooked sufficiently, rub the mass through a 
sieve, put in a cupful of sugar and a pint of claret, let 
it boil until the sugar is dissolved. Then add the 
beaten yolks and the berries which have been boiled 
in syrup. 

Cherry Soup 

Cherry soup can be made very simply, following 
the recipe for making apple soup — all the fruits may 
be treated in that manner, in fact — or more elaborately 
with wine. 

Almond Soup 

A dainty soup is made from a quarter of a pound 
of blanched and ground almonds, one quart of milk and 
a little sugar. Set over a slow fire, and when it has 
come slowly to a boil, stir in the yolks of two eggs, 
and pour the whole over thin slices of toast. A little 
rose or orange flavor enhances the taste of this delicious 
soup. 



120 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

FISH 



SHAD 

Baked Shad, with Irish Potato Dressing 

Clean the fish and salt inside and out ; make a dress- 
ing of Irish potatoes (three or four medium potatoes, 
to a medium sized fish), three eggs, one raw and two 
hard boiled and chopped fine, two stalks of celery, two- 
thirds of a cupful of sweet milk; butter the size of a 
walnut, salt and pepper to taste, and a slight touch of 
onion, if desired. The dressing should be soft. Stuff 
the fish, sew up and bake slowly one hour with enough 
water to baste frequently. If fish is to be kept over 
night and the weather is warm, salt and bake half an 
hour, then put away in a cool place for the night. 
Proceed in the morning as directed above. 

Planked Shad, Maryland 

A fire of well seasoned split oak is built in a long 
compact line, and inch-thick oak planks are propped 
before it until heated through. Time improves the 
quality of these planks, and many well-charred ones 
have been in use for four or five seasons. The fish, 
cleaned, split and rubbed with a little salt, are nailed 
fast to these planks, and backs sizzling as they touch 
the wood, which slowly cooks that side. The shadded 
planks are propped close to the fire until the fish begin 
to brown, and then removed a few inches, the cooks 
deftly turning one edge of the planks uppermost and 
then the other, to retain the juices evenly. As many 
as two hundred shad are often planked at once, a row 
extending on either side of the fire, and the cooks 
patroling the line and basting them as they brown with 
a mixture of melted butter and Worcester sauce. The 
cooks are as indifferent to smoke and flame as so many 
Casabiancas, and watch carefully that all brown to- 
gether evenly and that no errant breeze sends smoke 
or ashes or flame against the buttered planks. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 121 
To Fry Shad or Other Fish 

Clean, cut, wash, wipe dry, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; dip in meal and fry in enough boiling lard to 
cover the fish, turning over once. 

Or, dip in well beaten egg, roll in bread or cracker 
crumbs, and fry as directed. 



SALMON 

Creamed Lake Salmon 

Scrape, clean and salt three or four pounds of fresh 
lake salmon; put in baking pan, with a teacupful of 
boiling water, and one teaspoonful of fresh butter. 
Baste frequently, letting it cook ten minutes to each 
pound of fish, adding more water if necessary. A few 
minutes before taking up prepare the cream sauce 
thus : Scald one-half teacupful of sweet milk, same of 
sweet cream, small lump of butter; pour into it the 
gravy, stir, pour over the fish, let boil up once and 
serve. A little parsley or celery in the cream (chopped 
fine) adds to the flavor. Use a cup of sweet milk if 
cream is not to be had and thicken the sauce with one 
teaspoonful of flour, mixed with water, and boil a 
few minutes. 

Scalloped Salmon 
Put half a pint of milk on to boil. Rub an ounce 
of butter and a tablespoonful of flour together, and stir 
in the boihng milk. Cut two pounds of fresh or canned 
salmon into dice. Put a layer of the sauce in the bot- 
tom of a baking^dish, then a layer of the salmon; 
sprinkle with salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, or celery, 
and grated bread crumbs ; then another layer of the 
sauce, salmon and seasoning, until the aish is full ; have 
the last layer sauce ; sprinkle with the bread crumbs 
and bits of butter. Set in a very hot oven for ten mm- 
utes to brown. Serve in the dish in which it is cooked. 



122 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Baked Salmon, Trout, Bass, Etc. 

Clean the fish, dip into a pan of boiling water and 
scrape it until white. Rub well with salt and pepper. 
Put it in a baking-pan, and pour milk over it till half 
an inch deep. Bake a four-pound fish about an hour. 
Cook slowly at first, basting often with the milk, and 
add more milk if it all cooks away before the fish 
has browned. When the flesh will separate easily from 
the bone the fish is done. 

Serve on a small dish. Garnish it with parsley 
and slices of hard-boiled eggs. The milk keeps the 
fish moist, is a wholesome substitute for pork, and gives 
the fish a rich brown color, which always adds much 
to the attractiveness of a baked fish. 

Cod, haddock and bass are delicious when baked in 
this way, and some prefer this method for blue fish and 
mackerel. The milk is not to be used after cooking any 
oily fish in it, but with the dry white fish, if there be 
any left in the pan after the last basting, it may be 
thickened slightly with flour and butter and poured 
over the fish. 



OTHER FISH 

Boiled and Creamed Perch, White Fish, Etc. 

Clean, wash and wipe the perch, and if thick, split 
them lengthwise. Squeeze lemon juice over them and 
add a sprinkling of salt and pepper and dip in melted 
butter. Broil at first quickly, then more slowly, al- 
lowing ten minutes for each inch of thickness. The 
sauce to be served with them, is for each small fish 
a teaspoonf ul of creamed butter, seasoned with a dash 
of cayenne and salt, and one-half teaspoonful each of 
vinegar and lemon juice. This may be served in a little 
ball on a butter plate, or spread over the fish. Parsley, 
pickles, or olives chopped fine, may be added to the 
sauce. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 123 

To Freshen Salt Fish 

Soak over night, or several hours, in sweet or sour 
skimmed milk, being sure to turn the skin side up, so 
that the salt may soak out. If the milk is not to be 
had, use cold water. 

Broiled Smoked Herrings 

Broil them a few minutes over a quick fire. Take 
off the skins and serve immediately. 

Creamed Mackerel 

Wash a salt mackerel and soak it all night in cold 
water. To prepare it for breakfast, wipe it well to get 
off the salt crystals that may be lodged in the creases. 
Put into a bread pan of boiling water and cook steadily 
half an hour. Drain when done and transfer to a hot 
dish. Pour over it a sauce made with a cupful of 
boiling sweet milk, thickened with a paste made of 
flour and hot water, two teaspoonfuls of butter, one of 
vinegar and a little pepper. Instead of the vinegar you 
can put in a teaspoonful of green pickle, minced fine. 
Stir over the fire until smooth and as thick as custard, 
when add minced parsley. Pour over the fish, cover 
and let it stand five minutes in a warm place before 
it goes to the table. 

Fish Loaf 

1 pound canned fish or 1 tablespoonful butter 

2^/2 cupfuls flaked, cooked 1 teaspoonful salt 

fresh fish Vs teaspoonful pepper 

3 eggs 1 tablespoonful minced 
'V2 cupful soft bread crumbs parsley 

Separate the eggs, beat the yolks until lemon- 
colored and the whites until stiff. Flake the fish, add 
it with the remaining ingredients to the egg yolks, 
fold in the egg whites, and transfer to a pan, rubbed 
lightly with butter. Bake until firm in a moderate 
oven, about forty minutes. Serve with peas, a cream 
or a tomato sauce. 



124 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Fried Smelts 

Clean about two dozen smelts, cut off gills, wash 
well in cold water and dry thoroughly. Put a pinch of 
salt and pepper in a little milk, into which dip your 
smelts ; then roll in cracker dust. Fry a light brown, 
in boiling lard. Fry some parsley, place around the 
fish and serve with sauce tartar. 

Salt Codfish Souffle 

To a pint of pared and quartered potatoes allow a 
cupful of salt codfish. Place the fish and potatoes 
separately, in boiling water to cover them, and let boil 
until the potatoes are done. Drain, mash the potatoes 
and fish, and beat them well with a fork, adding a pinch 
of white pepper, a tablespoonful of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. The mass should 
be made light with vigorous stirring. Then beat in 
the well stirred yolks of two eggs, and lastly, cut in 
their nicely frosted whites without much stirring. 
Arrange the souffle on a buttered plate, and bake it 
down. This will require about twenty minutes. Serve 
with cucumber pickle or pickled peppers, or with horse 
radish or fresh cucumbers. 

Breakfast Shrimps 

Put two plates of raw shrimps into a large sauce- 
pan of boiling water, well salted. After fifteen min- 
utes, strain and leave to cool. Now, a wrench of the 
head, a twist of the tail, and they slip out whole and 
firm. Place these in an ecru or pale green dish. With 
a breakfast dish of snowy hominy they are simply 
delicious. 

Fried Shrimps 

Boil a quart of large sprawns, and when cool, pick 
and put in a cream batter, made of two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, two eggs, and salt to taste; remove, sprin- 
kle, roll in cracker dust, dip again in the batter, and 
roll in the crumbs; then fry in boiling lard or butter. 
Some think them siaperior to fried oysters. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 125 

Shrimp Fritters 

Boil one pint of shrimps in salted water, remove 
the shells and chop fine; make a batter of two eggs, 
half teacupful of sweet milk, teaspoonful of melted but- 
ter, and bread crumbs to make a good batter. Stir in 
the shrimp and fry in rolls in boiling lard, and serve 
on a napkin. 

Fish Rolls 

Take one pound of cold, boiled fish — any kind will 
do, but, of .course, the richer the better — free it en- 
tirely from bones and skin, and put it in a mortar with 
a tablespoonful of butter, salt, pepper, pounded mace, 
and lemon juice, and rub the whole to a perfectly 
smooth paste, moistening from time to time, with a 
little good white sauce. Procure six or eight small 
rolls, about four inches long; cut them in two length- 
wise, scoop out nearly all the interior, and fill in 
the cavities thus made, with the fish. Put rolls to- 
gether again in their original form, brush them over 
entirely with a coating of glaze, and set them in a cool 
place until the latter is quite firm. Arrange the rolls 
in rows on a neatly folded napkin, and garnish with 
crisp, well-seasoned watercress, or finely chopped let- 
tuce. If preferred, the rolls may be filled with a 
savory mince composed of veal and ham, or any other 
sort of finely minced meat well seasoned. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

2 small lobsters 4 eggs (yolks) 

1 cupful cream 1 teaspoonful salt 
4 tablespoonfuls butter Few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoonfuls brandy or Few grains mace 

sherry 

Cut the lobster meat into small pieces, cook them 
slowly in butter for five minutes, add the seasonings, 
brandy and sherry, and simmer five minutes longer. 
Combine the cream with the beaten yolks and pour 
slowly into the cooking mixture. Stir constantly for 
one and one-half minutes. Garnish with triangles of 
puff paste. 



126 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Shrimp Fricassee 

Boil and pick two plates of shrimps. Put into a 
saucepan one heaping tablespoonful of butter, into 
which mince half of a small onion, sprig each of thyme 
and parsley, and a pinch of pepper. Add shrimps, stir 
until brown, add one cup of milk, boil up and serve. 
Eat with boiled rice. 

To Pickle Shrimp 

Peel the shrimps; put them in a glass jar, first a 
layer of shrimps, then one of mixed spices, pepper 
and salt, until all the shrimps are in. Pour in a little 
water and boil (as directed for canning fruit). When 
done and cold, cover with good vinegar. They will be 
fit for use in twenty-four hours, and, if covered closely 
will keep for several weeks. 

Lobster Souffle 

2 lb. lobster V2 cupful tomato sauce 

3 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise V2 cupful Tarragon vinegar 

1 cupful aspic jelly 

Cut the lobster into small pieces; put bands of 
writing paper, about two inches high, around as many 
ramekin cases as you wish to serve. Beat mayonnaise, 
aspic jelly, and tomato sauce together until they bet- 
gin to look white. Stir in the pieces of lobster, add 
the vinegar. Fill the ramekin cases and put away to 
stiffen in a very cold place. When set, take off the 
papers carefully, garnish with pounded coral or 
browned crumbs. 

Lobster Newburg 

Two cups of boiled lobsters cut in blocks, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one nutmeg, grated, one cup of 
rich cream, one^half cup of sherry wine, salt and pap- 
rika to taste, yolks of six eggs. Melt butter and stir 
in the eggs well beaten with the cream. Thicken by 
cooking, and serve hot with toast. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 127 
Crab Newburg 

Same as Lobster Newburg, replacing lobster with 
crab meat. 

Oyster Newburg 

Same as Lobster Newberg, only using oysters in 
place of lobsters. 

Crawfish 

Crawfish are inhabitants of fresh water streams. 
They have a striking resemblance to lobster in every 
respect, and are largely used by caterers for garnishes, 
sauces, salads, etc. 

Crawfish Bordelaise 

1 V2 lbs. crawfish meat 1 tablespoonful minced onion 

V2 pt. cream sauce V2 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful butter Few grains cayenne 

1 glass red wine Few grains nutmeg 

1 tablespoonful minced carrot 

Cook the carrot and onion in butter, add the wine, 

the meat and cream sauce with seasonings, boil up 

once and serve hot. 



SHELL FISH 

Oysters en Bloc 

Have a block of ice weighing ten pounds. Heat 
four or five bricks in the oven. Lay one on the block 
of ice and let it remain until it is cold. Remove it, 
and tip the ice, so as to drain off the water left in the 
depression. Continue the process until you have a 
sufficiently large cavity to hold the quantity of oysters 
you wish to serve. Drain the oysters, season them 
with pepper, salt and vinegar, and set them in the re- 
frigerator for an hour or two before serving. Lay the 
block of ice on a folded cloth on a large platter, sur- 
round it thickly with parsley and pour the oysters 
into the cavity. Serve brown bread and butter sand- 
wiches with the oysters. 



128 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Raw Oysters 

Serve on half shell, the shells being laid upon 
oyster plates filled with cracked ice ; six oysters and a 
thick slice of lemon being served upon each plate. 
Or, if preferred, discard the shells and serve with ice 
and lemon, eight oysters on each plate. Blue Points 
are given the preference for serving in this way. 

Oyster Patties 

Prepare creamed oysters and fill patty shells with 
the mixture. Serve at once. 

Deviled Oysters 

Drain two dozen large fresh oysters, and chop 
them. Put a teacupful of sweet milk on to boil. Rub 
a tablepoonful each of butter and flour together, and 
stir into the boiling milk, take from the fire, and add 
the oysters, the beaten yolks of two eggs, a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, with salt and pepper to taste. 
Have the oyster shells washed clean, fill with the mix- 
ture, sprinkle with grated bread crumbs, place a small 
lump of butter on each, arrange in a baking pan, and 
set in a very quick oven to brown. Serve in shells; 
garnish with parsley. Make soup of the liquor. Pro- 
ceed as for stew, omitting the oysters, and thickening 
it with fine cracker dust, or a teaspoonful of flour 
mixed with one of butter. 

Blue Points on Half Shell, Served with Cocktail in 

Peppers 

For twenty persons order one hundred oysters and 
half pint of oyster liquid. Make a cocktail as directed 
elsewhere. Have ready in cold water ten bell peppers, 
which have been cut in half, and the core and se^d 
removed. 

Half hour before ready to serve have the person 
accustomed to the work open the oysters and place 
them on trays, saving as much liquor from them as 
possible. While he does this, have crushed fine, ten 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 129 

or fifteen pounds of ice; place a cupful of this in 
each tea plate on which the oysters are to be served; 
place in the center of a plate half a bell pepper, being 
careful to have it firmly fixed in the ice. Arrange 
around this five oysters on the half shell, and pour in 
the pepper two tables poonfuls of the cocktail, which 
must be ice cold. Place each plate of oysters on a 
dinner place in front of where each guest is to sit, 
having on a bread and butter plate at the left side 
two small graham bread and butter sandwiches. The 
oyster fork may be placed across one side of the plate, 
or just beyond the soup spoon on the right. 

Shrimp Cocktail 

Use oyster cocktail recipe, substituting shrimps for 
oysters. 

Clam Cocktail 

Same recipe as oyster cocktail, replacing oysters 
with clams. 

Oyster in Crackers 

Prepare with canned oysters when fresh ones can 
not be procured. Open a number of Boston crackers, 
and spread them with butter. On one half of each 
cracker place as many oysters as it will hold, salt the 
oysters, if necessary, sprinkle Hghtly with pepper and 
add a few drops of lemon juice. Cover with the other 
half of the cracker and bake about ten minutes. 

Fried Oysters 

Get large plump oysters. Drain off the liquor and 
salt and pepper the oysters to taste. Roll them in 
cracker crumbs, then in well beaten eggy that has also 
been seasoned, then in cracker crumbs, and fry in 
boiling lard enough to cover, until a li^ht' brown. A 
wire basket is best for frying them in, but it not abso- 
lutely necessary. 



130 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Roasted Oysters 

Ingredients : A winter night, a big hot fire, in an 
open fireplace, a jolly crowd, oysters in shells, and salt 
and pepper. Make a bed of hot coals, throw in oysters, 
and when they pop open, put the shells apart, salt 'and 
pepper, and eat at once. 

Oyster Pilau 

Into a saucepan put one heaping tablespoonful of 
butter; when quite melted, add three pints of oyster 
liquor, pepper and salt to taste, and add one pint of 
prepared rice. When done, lay three dozen good sized 
oysters on rice, sprinkle with a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, and a tiny patch of pepper ; cover saucepan, and 
let contents steam over a slow fire for ten minutes. 
Serve with parsley and oysters encircling rice. If 
preferred, beat two eggs light (separate) and stir in 
before adding the oysters, put in the oysters and bake 
instead of steaming. 

Oam Chowder 

15 large clams (ground) V2 lb salt pork (scant) 

V2 can tomatoes 3 potatoes 

3 large onions 

Cut pork in very small pieces. Fry until brown. 

Cut potatoes in very small cubes. Put all in kettle 

with pork, add one-half pint warm water. Let simmer 

all the afternoon. Don^t salt. 

Oyster Pie 

Line the sides of a deep dish with pie paste. Drain 
a quart of oysters, pepper and salt them and put them 
in. Strain the oyster liquor, add to it half a pint of 
milk and put it on to boil. Rub together two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one of butter, and when the 
liquor boils stir it in and stir until it thickens. Remove 
from the fire, season with pepper and salt and pour 
over the oysters in the pie. Roll out a sheet of paste, 
cut a hole in the center and cover the pie with it., Bake 
half an hour. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 131 
Lobster Farci 

Put a teacupful of sweet milk on to boil. Rub a 
teaspoonful of butter with two of flour and stir into 
the boiling milk. Take from the fire, add half a tea- 
cupful of grated bread crumbs, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, the yolks of four hard boiled eggs 
mashed fine, a pound and a half of boiled lobster cut 
into small pieces, with half a grated nutmeg, salt and 
cayenne. Mix all together well. Have the lobster 
shells cleaned, cut off the under part of the shell, join 
the large ends of the two tail shells to the body, fill 
these shells with the mixture, brush the top over 
wuth beaten eggy sprinkle with grated bread crumbs, 
and set in a hot oven for twenty minutes to brown. 
Serve hot in the shells, garnish with parsley. 

Creamed Lobster 

Put on a pint of milk to heat, and cut into small 
pieces a pound of canned lobster. Gradually melt one 
tablespoonful of butter, and stir into it, when perfectly 
soft, two tablespoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and the juice of half a 
lemon. As soon as the mixture is thoroughly blended, 
add a little of the boiling milk to thin it; stir thor- 
oughly, pour the mixture into the balance of the boil- 
ing milk, and let the whole cook slowly for five minutes, 
stirring constantly. When thick add the lobster, and 
cook five minutes longer. Some persons prefer a little 
more salt and pepper in creamed lobster and to others 
a level tablespoonful of curry powder will prove an 
agreeable addition. Sometimes this preparation is 
placed in buttered scallop shells, sprinkled with fine 
seasoned and buttered bread or cracker crumbs, and 
nicely browned in the oven. It then forms an attrac- 
tive dish for luncheon, breakfast or supper. 

Fricassee of Oysters 

Drain a quart of oysters and put the liquor on to 
boil. Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and one 



132 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

of flour; add to the boiling liquor and stir it until it 
thickens. Season with salt, a very little cayenne and 
a blade of mace. Remove it from the fire and add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs ; mix thoroughly and return 
to the fire, stirring for a minute or two. Put in the 
oysters and boil up again. Pour over slices of buttered 
toast and serve. 

White Fricassee of Oysters 

1 pt. oysters 1 tablespoonful flour 
V2 cupful oyster liquor 1 egg 

V2 cupful cream l^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter V2 saltspoonful pepper 

Drain, clean and dry the oysters. Put one table- 
spoonful of butter into a frying pan and when hot add 
the oysters, cook until plump and drain again. Scald 
and skim the oyster liquor. Melt the butter, add flour 
and seasonings. Cook together. Add oyster liquor 
and cream slowly, cook until smooth. Beat one egg 
very light and pour the oyster sauce upon it, add oys- 
ters and return to the fire to be well heated, but it must 
not boil Serve in crust or patty shells if for lunch 
or dinner; for breakfast or tea, serve on toast. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 133 

MEATS 

HAM 

Boiled Ham 

Wash, trim carefully and put on in enough cold 
water to cover well. When it begins to boil, allow a 
quarter of an hour for each pound, letting it boil 
slowly. When a fork stuck in comes out easily, it is 
done. Remove the skin, trim and serve. 

Ham Boiled in Wine 

Wash and scrape well; place in pot large enough 
without cramping, pour on two bottles of dry wme and 
sufficient water to cover ham. Boil slowly four hours 
for ham weighing ten pounds; add fifteen minutes for 
every additional pound. When done remove from pot 
and allow to get cold ; then skin and cover with a batter 
made of one egg, a little milk, butter and cracker 
crumbs; place in baking pan and bake until a nice 
brown. 

Spiced Ham 

Wash a ten pound ham in cold water. Put in a 
large boiler, and nearly fill with water; add two blades 
of mace, a dozen cloves, half a dozen pepper corns 
and a bay leaf. Set over a slow fire, let heat gradually ; 
let simmer for an hour and a half, then boil gently, 
fifteen minutes to every pound. When done, let cool 
in the water in which it was boiled. Take up and 
skin Brush over the fat with beaten egg, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs in which is mixed a tablespoonful 
of brown or white sugar. Set in moderate oven to 
brown ; baste with one pint of vinegar, in which is a 
tablespoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonf ul each oi 
extract of celery, cloves and ginger. When brown, 
take up, lay on flat dish, stick whole cloves over 
thickly; set away twenty-four hours before using. 



134 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Baked Ham 

Wash and trim the ham thoroughly. Make a very 
thick paste of flour and water; cover the ham all over 
with the paste, a quarter of an inch thick. Place in a 
pan, put in oven, and baste occasionally ; allow fifteen 
minutes to the pound. When done, remove paste, skin 
and trim away any rough places. Stick over with 
cloves, pepper and serve. Garnish with celery leaves. 
This method of baking retains the juices, and the ham 
has a very delicate flavor. We consider this the best 
way to cook hams. 

To Cut a Ham for Frying and Broiling 

Cut the ham from the large end. Slip a knife under 
the skin and separate it from the fat, about one-half 
the length of the ham. Turn back the skin, trim off 
the dark or discolored parts of the fat, cut what is 
necessary ; if you possess a meat-saw, cut through the 
bone. The slices should be very thin for frying and 
broiling. Now cover the meat again with the skin, 
being sure to press down well. Put in two brown paper 
sacks, one within the other ; tie securely and return to 
smoke-house or pantry. The meat will be fresher and 
nicer for this treatment. 

Ham Pie 

Make a puff paste (not very rich), and line a shallow 
pie plate with it; chop fine two teacupfuls of good 
remnants of cold boiled ham; cut into rings two cold, 
hard-boiled eggs and two blades of celery. Put in 
the plate a layer of ham, a light layer of celery and 
one of eggs; now cover with the pastry (rolled thin). 
Cut two or three slits in the top, pour in a half teacup- 
ful of hot water and bake in a quick oven. Brown 
the bottom crust before putting in the meat, if pre- 
ferred. This is nice served with mayonnaise dressing. 

Broiled Ham 

Slices of cold boiled ham are delicious when broiled 
over a very clear, hot fire. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 135 

Fried Ham 

Cut from the large end thin slices and fry in hot 
spider a nice brown on both side. Make a milk gravy, 
by adding one teacupf ul of sweet milk to the drippings 
left in the pan. Thicken, if liked, with one teaspoonful 
of flour and a little water thoroughly mixed in a cup 
with a fork; add a pinch of salt and serve in gravy 
bowl. 

To Devil Cold Ham 

Cut in slices one-third of an inch thick. Season 
with cayenne pepper and dip in mustard dressing. 
Broil a few minutes and serve hot. 



PORK 

Pork Roast 

The hind quarter of the hog makes the nicest roast, 
though the middling, when well cooked, is very good. 
It all depends on the cooking. With a sharp knife 
cut or score the ham in slices, just through the skin, 
half an inch apart. This makes it easier to carve and 
better absorbs the seasoning, when basting. Put into 
a roasting pan if convenient, if not, in an ordinary 
baking pan; pour in a quart of water, with a heaping 
tablespoonful of salt and as much cayenne pepper as is 
liked ; now if an ordinary pan, turn over it another pan, 
lifting to baste, every fifteen minuets; allow twenty 
minutes to the pound; when done, remove the cover 
and let it brown. Serve with hot tomato catsup, or 
Worcester sauce. Suspend the roast over the pan and 
steam, if preferred, basting as directed. The latter is 
the old-fashioned way. 

Spare-Rib, Broiled 

Broil just as one does beefsteak, omitting the 
butter. 



136 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Spare-Rib, Roasted 

Trim nicely, crack the ribs across the middle, ruh 
with salt and pepper, fold over, stuff with Irish potato 
dressing, sew up well, place in a roasting-pan with a 
teacupful of boiling water. Cover with the top, or 
another pan, place in oven and cook until tender, bast- 
ing frequently; then remove the top and brown well. 
Serve with egg sauce. 

Shoat Roast 

Spare-ribs, or the loin of a young pig, make a deli- 
cious roast. Select a piece weighing about three 
pounds. Rub a spoonful of salt on it, and shake some 
pepper over it, about three hours before you roast it. 
Dredge it lightly with flour, lay it on the rack in the 
dripping pan, pour a cupful of boiling water under it. 
Baste it every fifteen minutes until it has roasted an 
hour and a half. Add more water from time to time 
as it boils away. If the spare-rib is not crispy brown 
in every part, it should be cooked for a quarter of an 
hour more. Pork should be more thoroughly done 
than any other kind of meat. Add a little boiling 
water to the drippings, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, 
previously wet with cold water, season the mixture 
with salt and pepper, and strain it through a gravy 
strainer. Skim off carefully all grease that rises, and 
serve with the spare-rib. Apple sauce, mashed pota- 
toes and good mustard are the old English accompani- 
ments to a dish of spare-ribs. 

Pickled Pig Feet 

Serve cold with pepper, salt and a French dressing; 
or, split in half and fry as directed in preceding recipe. 

To Cook Sausage 

If stuffed, wash ; put into a moderately hot frying 
pan. Do not cook too rapidly ; turn two or three times. 
They should cook nearly half an hour. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 137 

Pork Chops 

Pork chops make a very acceptable breakfast dish. 
They are especially nice broiled. To broil them, trim 
well, removing all fat, flatten them with a mallet, rub 
them with a little butter, and let them broil for about 
seven minutes on each side. Arrange around a mound 
of creamed potatoes. 

Broiled Tenderloin Pork Steak 

Have the butcher to cut for you the tenderloin of 
the pork. Do not have the butcher to steak it. Trim 
away all fat and cut it in slices one- third of an inch 
thick ; chop or beat, put on a very hot spider ; turn when 
brown and brown the other side; when done, salt and 
butter, and serve hot. 

Fried Pig Feet 

Boil in salted water until well done. Make a thin 
batter of flour, water and a little salt and pepper. Split 
the feet in half, dip them in the batter and fry in 
boiling lard. 

Souse 

Take the head, feet and ears of a hog ; remove the 
fat where there is too much, wash and scrape thor- 
oughly. Soak over night ; boil all to pieces ; take out of 
the water, let cool and remove all bone. Season with 
salt, pepper and sage, a teaspoonful of each to a quart 
of meat. Place in a bowl, or mold, to cool and jelly. 
It will be ready for use in ten hours. Serve cold with 
vinegar; or take from the vinegar, dip in egg, roll in 
bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard. 

Fricatelli 

1 lb raw fresih pork 1 saltspoonful pepper 

^ cupful stale bread crumbs Vz teaspoonful onion juice 
1 teaspoonful salt 2 eggs 

Chop the pork very fine, add seasonings and bread 
crumbs, beat the eggs, and mix all thoroughly. Shape 
in small cakes, pan-broil slowly to thoroughly cook. 
Serve with baked or fried potatoes and garnish with 
parsley and lemon. 



138 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sausage or Forcemeat POau 

If sausages are used, take half pound, squeeze and 
fry in their own grease. If chopped meat, season well, 
and fry with six slices of breakfast bacon; add three 
pints of hot water and one cupful of rice. When quite 
done, stir thoroughly with a fork ; remove to the back 
of the stove, leave for five minutes, and serve. 

Sausage Rolls 

Take home-made pork sausage, plunge into fast 
boiling water, and let boil gently for a few minutes; 
then remove the skins, cut each sausage in two, length- 
ways, and set them aside until cold. Make some light 
pastry, roll out thin, and cut in, squares of five inches. 
Lay a half sausage in each square, then fold the pastry 
over, and gently press the ends together. Brush the 
rolls over with beaten egg^ and bake in oven from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve on a napkin. Gar- 
nish with sprigs of fresh green parsley. 

Broiled Breakfast Bacon 

Cut very thin strips. Hold on a flesh fork, a strip 
on each prong, over a hot fire until done. 

Fried Breakfast Bacon with Milk Gravy 

Cut thin a half dozen slices of lean breakfast bacon. 
Cook in a frying pan until done. Remove the meat; 
sift into the gravy a teaspoonful of flour and let it 
brown; then pour in a teacupful of sweet milk; let 
it thicken, season with salt and pepper and serve in a 
gravy dish. This gravy is delicious, if well made. 



VEAL 

Veal Loaf 

Three pounds of veal, half pound of salt pork, half 
teacupful of bread crumbs, browned, two raw eggs, 
beaten up, a good deal of black pepper, and salt to 
taste. Grind the meat fine, and mix all together ; bake 
slowly one hour in a cake tin. Slice cold for luncheon 
or tea. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 139 

Veal Croquettes 

Two teacupfuls of chopped veal, one of creamed 
potatoes, two eggs, one tablespoonf ul of butter, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Mix well together, make into 
oblong balls and fry in boiling lard. 



BEEF 
Roast Beef, No. 1 

To have roast beef brown on the outside and rare 
and juicy within, put beef into a very hot oven at first, 
for half an hour, then reduce the heat for the remainder 
of the time of cooking. This will attain the desired 
result. Of course, the meat must be basted as often 
as every fifteen minutes. 

The great heat at first hardens as well as browns the 
surface of the meat. This keeps in the juices. But if 
the high temperature be continued, the hardening proc- 
ess goes beyond the surface and the result will be a 
hard, dry and stringy piece of meat. 

Roast Beef, No. 2 

Wash with soda a large rib, porterhouse, or tender- 
loin roast. Rub over with salt, place in a roasting pan, 
or in a pan over which another pan can be fitted, plac- 
ing the bone side down. Have the oven very hot for 
half an hour, or until the roast is brown, and then 
reduce the temperature of the oven, baking slowly until 
ready to serve — that is, twenty-five minutes for every 
pound if it is to be thoroughly done, or fifteen minutes 
per pound for rare roast. 

Beef Juice for Children 

Broil nice lean steak just enough to heat it, then 
press in a potato masher, or a strong lemon squeezer; 
or, grind rare steak in a meat chopper, heat in the 
Ktove just a minute and press. 



140 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

How to Roast Beef 

Wipe dry, put a little flour on top and rub into the 
beef. Put into a baking pan and bake without water. 

Pot Roast 

Have the butcher select a nice pot roast. Wash in 
cold water, then rub it thoroughly with salt, then place 
in a vessel on top of the stove with one cupful of 
boiling water. Cover well and let it cook fast until the 
water is out, turning until all sides may be brown. 
Be careful not to let it burn. When thoroughly brown, 
pour over it one quart of boiling water, and let it cook 
slowly until very tender, and there is just a nice brown 
gravy left. 

If liked, Irish potatoes may be peeled and cooked 
with the roast, putting them in half an hour before time 
to serve. Slice the beef, pour gravy over it, place the 
potatoes around it and send in smoking hot. 

Hamburg Steak 

Grind good round steak in a meat mill, and make 
into loaves four inches square, and three-quarters of 
an inch thick. Grease a broiler and let it be very hot. 
Place the steaks in the broiler until brown, and then 
turn with a battercake turner, and brown on the other 
side, being careful to have it brown but rare. Place 
on a dish and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Then 
pour over it (for four pounds of steak), one cupful of 
melted butter, and set in a hot place so that it may be 
well seasoned, and then serve at once, very hot. 

Planked Steak 

Take a thick, tender, loin steak. It should be fat 
and tender. Rub it with lemon juice and butter. Tack 
to a well-seasoned oak board that has been heated. 
Place in a hot oven and cook for twelve minutes. Then 
take out, draw the tacks, turn it over, tack again and 
cook for ten minutes. Serve with rice, potatoes and 
string beans. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 141 
Tenderloin Prepared for Invalids 

Scrape all the pulp from half a pound of tenderloin 
steak. Make into a flat cake about an inch thick ; broil 
quickly over coals (oak or hickory preferably). Sprin- 
kle over it a little salt and pepper — no butter; serve 
hot. 

Cold Beef, Broiled 

Slice cold roast and broil over hot coals, or on a 
clean, hot broiler; butter, pepper and salt, while hot, 
and serve immediately. 

Genuine Bouilli 

Take a piece of beef (say 8 pounds), a part of the 
rump serving the purpose best, and put it over the fire 
in a pot of cold water. When it begins to boil, skim 
and add a little fresh cold water to clear it. When all 
the scum has been removed, set the pot on the back of 
the fire, where the contents will stew very gently. 
Season with salt and pepper, two onions, four carrots, 
four turnips, one head of celery. 

When the vegetables are done, take them out to 
season the soup. While the beef is cooking make the 
glazing as follows : Stew a piece of veal weighing two 
pounds, with a slice of bacon and one each of the same 
kinds of vegetables that were put into the pot with the 
beef. When done, strain off the broth and reduce to 
the consistency proper for glazing, and pour it over the 
bouilli at the moment of serving it up. For the gravy, 
work up a piece of butter the size of an eggy in a little 
flour, with a small pickled cucumber cut up fine, one 
anchovy, and a large spoonful of capers. Put it in the 
same saucepan in which the glazing was prepared, with 
a little water. Heat it, stirring all the while, but as 
soon as it simmers take it off and pour it in the sauce- 
boat. The water in which the bouilli was boiled makes 
nice soup with the addition of the vegetables before 
spoken of, chopped up and returned to it. If preferred, 
they may be strained out before serving. 



142 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Beef Tea 

One pound of lean beef, ground fine, or cut into small 
pieces. Put into a glass canning jar, without water, 
cover tightly, and set in a pot of cold water. Heat 
gradually to a boil and continue this steadily for three 
or four hours, until the meat is like a white rag, and 
the juice all drawn out. Season with salt to taste, and 
when cold, skim. Round steak is the best for use for 
this purpose. 

French Way to Prepare Beef 

Take a shank of beef; sufficient water to cover; 
one teacupful of whole spice and the same of whole 
black pepper. When thoroughly done, add half a pint 
of good apple vinegar. Let boil up, remove from the 
fire, and put in bowl, and let the meat stay in the liquor 
until cold. Serve as one would cold tongue. 

Fillet of Beef with Tomatoes 

Trim a piece of fillet of beef, about four pounds, 
lard and tie up neatly; roast it, carefully basting. 
Allow twenty minutes for each pound of meat. When 
cooked, remove the strings, garnish with stewed toma- 
toes and serve. 

Beefsteak and Kidney Pudding 

Line a dish with moderately thick paste, fill with 
the steak and kidney, cut into pieces, season well with 
pepper and salt, pour over it a cupful of beef gravy, 
cover with paste and bake; or tie in a cloth and boil 
for two and a half hours. If liked, mushrooms may be 
added. 

Veal Oysters 

Select nice white veal, cut in pieces the size of an 
oyster, pound well, dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker 
dust and fry in boiling lard as oysters. A delicious 
manner of cooking veal. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 143 

Brains 

Remove the membrane and wash well ; soak fifteen 
minutes in cold water. Parboil until tender; then 
scramble with eggs; about a half dozen eggs to a hog 
or veal brain. Season to taste. Serve immediately. 



SWEETBREADS 

Sweetbreads 

There are two in a calf: one in the neck, and one 
near the heart; they are considered great delicacies. 
Select the largest. Before cooking, let them lie in 
cold water an hour, then plunge into hot water to 
whiten and harden, after which remove the outer cas- 
ing and the small pipes and slice thin. Roll in batter, 
or egg and cracker crumbs, seasoned to taste, and fry 
in boiling lard. If preferred, they may be parboiled 
before frying. 

Baked Sweetbreads 

Take veal sweetbreads and put in cold water after 
removing the membranes. When ready to use parboil 
in boiling salted water for ten minutes. Roll in the 
beaten white of an egg, and then in cracker crumbs, 
place in a pan, dot with small lumps of butter and bake 
in a moderate oven about half an hour. Serve on 
toast. 

Sweetbread Pates 

Boil four sweetbreads; when cold, chop fine, add 
ten mushrooms, also chopped fine ; mix with these one- 
fourth of a pound of butter, half pint of milk, a little 
■flour, pepper, salt and nutmeg. Put on the fire, stir 
till it begins to thicken; then put in puff paste that 
has been prepared, and bake the pates a light brown. 

To Fry Sweetbreads 

Parboil in salt water, let cool ; cut in small squares, 
dip in egg, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry a light 
brown. 



144 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Braised Sweetbreads 

Shred the sweetbreads after parboiling, place in a 
baking dish, make a tomato sauce of tomatoes seasoned 
with onion, salt and pepper; boil a few minutes. 
Moisten the sweetbreads with a part of the same; 
cover closely, and cook half hour slowly. Then serve 
with the remaining sauce. 

Sweetbreads with Orange 

Parboil the sweetbreads in salt water ; let cool, then 
slice, dip in melted butter and orange juice, in equal 
quantities. 'Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place 
in a porcelain lined baking-dish. Bake for half an 
hour, basting several times with the orange and butter. 
Make a brown dressing by browning slightly one table- 
spoonful of butter with one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour; to this add one teacupful of chicken stock and 
season with celery, salt and pepper; let boil two min- 
utes; add half teacupful of orange juice, and one finely 
chopped orange, removing the seed only. Arrange the 
sweetbreads on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and 
garnish with cress. Serve while hot. 

Beef Essence 

Get two pounds of tender round of beef. Carefully 
trim off every atom of fat and cut the meat up in small 
pieces, or better still, grind it up in a meat chopper. 
Put it into a clean glass jar, and lightly screw on the 
top. Put a handful of straw in the bottom of a deep 
vessel, set the jar on that and surround it with a wisp 
<^f straw to prevent it from touching the sides. 

Fill the vessel with cold water to within three 
inches of the top of the jar and set it on the stove to 
boil. Let it boil for an hour and a half, then remove 
the jar, pour the juice out and season with a little 
salt. Throw the meat away, for its virtue has all 
been extracted. This essence is not only extremely 
nourishing, but is very nice. Keep in a cold place. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 145 
Fried Tripe 

The day before it is to be used, boil the tripe until 
quite tender — about five hours ; change the water once 
or twice — using boiling water. When needed, cut 
into long, narrow strips, dip in batter, or egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry brown in boiling lard. 

Tenderloin Steak 

For an invalid, there is nothing nicer than tender- 
loin steak, if it is properly made. Cut the steak three- 
quarters of an inch thick. Have ready some bright 
coals, and when the broiler is hot, grease it with pure 
lard and lay on the steak. Turn from side to side as it 
cooks. Warm a plate and when the steak is sufficiently 
done lay it on the plate and sprinkle with salt; add a 
piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Chop the 
steak with a knife while putting on the butter, and in 
that way it will absorb it. This steak is very nutri- 
tious and delightful. 

Broiled Liver 

Broil just as one would beefsteak, cooking longer. 



MINCE-MEAT 

Mince-Meat Without Brandy 

Six pounds of beef, from the shoulder; put on in 
boiling water and cook rapidly for a few minutes, to 
seal up the pores of the meat, then slowly until quite 
tender, salting as for table use. Allow it to simmer 
down as dry as possible without scorching, thereby 
saving all the juice of the meat. If this is not success- 
fully done, use the liquor which is left in the mince- 
meat. It must be perfectly cold before chopping. 
To every pint of meat, take one and a half pints of 
apples. If the pies are preferred cold, use, instead of 
suet, two pints of butter: otherwise, one-half the 
quantity of butter and one pound of finely choppea 



146 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

suet ; the juice of three oranges, three pints of sugar, 
three pounds of raisins, stoned, two pounds of well- 
washed currants, two gallons of sweet cider, two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, a level teaspoonful each 
of cloves and allspice, two small nutmegs and half a 
pound of citron cut in small pieces. Should be mixed 
one day, at least, before using, and will keep two weeks 
in cold weather, or may be heated and canned. Add 
more spices, if liked. Make half this quantity if pre- 
ferred. 

Mince-Meat — A Winter's Supply 

Boil, until perfectly tender and well done, three 
pounds of the lean of fine beef. When cold chop fine. 
Shred and mince two pounds of fresh beef suet. Have 
ready seeded and cut into small pieces three pounds of 
raisins and three pounds of dried currants, one pound 
of dried citron cut into small bits and two dozen apples, 
peeled, cored and chopped fine. Add the juice and 
grated rind of two lemons, one nutmeg, also grated, 
a teaspoonful each of mace, cloves and cinnamon 
ground to powder. Lastly, two teaspoonfuls of salt 
and three pounds of good brown sugar. Have ready 
a quart bottle each of brandy, wine and sweet 
cider. Pour equal quantities of these liquors over 
your mince-meat until it is moist enough for use. 
Keep what is left in the bottles ready to pour on the 
mince-meat afresh when you take out what you need 
for pies from time to time. These proportions make 
quite a large quantity and generally would suffice for 
the needs of a family for the entire season. Mince- 
meat should be kept closely tied up in a jar, and will 
not spoil before the return of really warm weather. 
One pint of mince-meat is not too much to allow for 
each pie plate; a mere thin covering over the bottom 
will not answer, for the mince-meat must be baked in 
a pastry, of course. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 147 

MUTTON AND KID 

Roast Mutton 

Put the roast in a baking pan with enough water 
to baste, putting the seasoning in the water. Cover 
with another baking pan; put in a hot oven, reducing 
the temperature after ten or fifteen minutes; baste 
every fifteen minutes, until thoroughly tender, then 
remove the top pan and let brown. Thicken the gravy 
with a paste made of flour and water. 

Baked Kid 

Parboil and bake, or roast just as one would mut- 
ton, seasoning with red pepper and salt. 

Kid Chaps 

Cut from any part of the kid; chop, flour and fry 
in boiling lard, covering while it cooks. Garnish with 
Saratoga chips. 

Mutton Chops Grilled 

Cut the chops an inch thick, either from the loin 
or the best end of the neck; if from the latter, the 
bones must be shortened. Remove all superfluous fat 
and season each chop by pressing in a mixture of salt, 
pepper, and powdered herbs; then dip each chop in 
warmed butter and broil on a hot, v/ell-greased grid- 
iron, over a clear fire, from eight to ten minutes, 
according to thickness. The chops require to be fre- 
quently turned, in order that they may be done equally. 
When cooked, place each chop, just slightly overlapping 
its neighbor, upon a hot dish ; pour over each a dessert- 
spoonful of hot butter and a tablespoonful of red pepper 
catsup and serve immediately. 

Mint Sauce for Lamb 

Two tablespoonfuls of mint, chopped fine, one of 
sugar, and half a teacupful of vinegar. Cook together 
a few minutes, and allow it to cool. This may be added 
to the gravy, or served separately. 



148 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Stewed Lamb, with Peas 

Have the bones taken out of the under side of 
shoulder of a lamb and bind into good shape with tape. 
Cover the bottom of a pot with chopped pork, and 
strew with young minced onions. Lay in the meat, 
and pour over it one quart of broth, made from the 
bones and trimmings ; cover closely and stew until ten- 
der. Remove the meat and unbind; keep hot. Strain 
the gravy, return to the fire with two quarts of green 
peas and cook until done. Serve the meat with the 
peas around it as a garnish. 

Chops with Tomato Sauce 

After trimming the chops neatly and seasoning 
with salt and pepper, dip each one in beaten egg, coat 
with fine bread crumbs and fry a rich brown on both 
sides, in a small quantity of lard. When done, pile 
the chops up high in the middle of a hot dish; sur- 
round them with a border of carefully boiled whole 
potatoes, rather small and even in size, and pour over 
all some tomato sauce; sprinkle the surface lightly with 
finely chopped parsley and tiny patches of sifted egg 
yolk and serve hot. 



TO CURE PORK AND BEEF 

If the meat is to be packed in salt, it should be 
rubbed with saltpeter before the animal heat is out, 
then allowed to cool thoroughly before it is packed in 
salt. Unless the meat is very large, three or four 
weeks is long enough for it to remain in salt. It 
should be taken out of the salt when the weather is 
clear and cold — a windy day is to be preferred, as the 
meat will then dry quickly. Make a strong pepper tea, 
using one dozen pods of red pepper to each half gallon 
of water; boil one hour. When the meat is dry, dip it 
into the boiling pepper tea, let remain two or three 
minutes. Take it out, and when dry wrap it in thick 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 149 

brown paper and canvas with unbleached homespun. 
Be careful to sew the cloth on well. Then if preferred 
whitewash and hang up. 

If the meat is canvased in this way early enough in 
the season, one will have no trouble with insects. 

Hams, shoulders and the thin parts of the sides 
are best sugar-cured. 

Sugar-Cured Ham, No. 1 

To one hundred pounds of meat, allow seven 
pounds of salt, five pounds of brown sugar, two ounces 
of saltpeter and half ounce of baking soda. Boil the 
ingredients in four gallons of water until all are 
melted. When the liquid is cold skim carefully. Rub 
the meat on all sides with red pepper ; pour the liquid 
over it and let it remain covered, in a cool place, for 
eight weeks. Then hang it to dry for a day or two 
and smoke a week. If liked, dip in the pepper tea 
(mentioned in general directions) and canvas. 

Sugar-Cured Ham, No. 2 

After all animal heat is out, trim the hams (or 
shoulders either), nicely cutting off about four inches 
of the hock or lower joints. Rub each piece with tol- 
erably fine salt, and pack tight in a barrel that will 
hold brine; m.ake a sweet pickle by using one and one- 
half gallons of good syrup, or its equivalent (twelve 
pounds) of brown sugar and six ounces of saltpeter, 
to forty gallons of water, with salt enough added to 
make the pickle float an egg. Let it boil until the scum 
rises, skim, set away until thoroughly cool, then pour 
it over the meat. Keep the meat well under the brine. 
The meat should remain in pickle from five to six 
weeks, according to temperature. When the hams are 
taken out, rinse in clear water and hang up to dry, 
and smoke with any good, hard, sound wood — hickory 
wood is best. You will never lose a ham if the above 
is followed to the letter, and better hams you never ate. 



150 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Virginia- Cured Ham 

For eighty pounds of pork take three pints of salt^ 
four ounces of saltpeter, two ounces of black pepper, 
two pounds of brown sugar; pulverize thoroughly to- 
gether. Rub this well into the meat three times a 
week, and if all the mixture is not used in these rub- 
bings, give it four, or continue until all is used. After 
fifteen or twenty days smoke with hickory wood as 
long as is considered necessary. 

Sausage 

To every twelve pounds of meat take three table- 
spoonfuls of salt, three of black pepper, six of sage and 
a teaspoonful of red pepper. Grind the meat through 
the mill, then mix in the seasoning thoroughly. Let 
remain half an hour, then grind again and stuff. Hang 
up in a dry, cool place. It is best not to link the 
sausages, as they dry more quickly when not linked. 
After they hang a week or ten days, or until the skins 
are dry, take them down, rub well with meal and place 
in a wooden box with brown paper between each layer. 
Sausage may be kept fresh for any length of time if 
fried, placed in jars, and covered with the drippings, 
or if they are not sufficient, making up the deficiency 
with melted lard. Keep the jar well covered, in a 
cool place. 

Pickled or Corned Beef 

Boil four ounces of saltpeter in twelve gallons of 
water. Have ready one hundred pounds of beef cut 
in nice pieces for roasting. Dip each piece in the boil- 
ing saltpeter water, let remain one minute, then lay 
out to cool. When all have been dipped, add to the 
water nine pounds of salt, half gallon of molasses, five 
pounds of brown sugar, two ounces of pearlash. Boil 
well and skim; let get perfectly cold. Pack the beef 
in a barrel, pour the cold pickle over it, and place 
weights on the beef to keep it well under the brine. 
Ready for use in three weeks. This keeps well. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 151 
Seasoning for Sausage Meat 

To twelve and one-half pounds of pork, ground 
nicely, add three tablespoonfuls of salt, two of black 
pepper, one-half of cayenne, two of thyme pulverized, 
two of sage, and one teaspoonful of saltpeter. 

Spiced Beef 

Twenty pounds of round beef ; rub with three-quar- 
ters of a pound of coarse brown sugar. Let stand in a 
pan for twenty^four hours. Pound to a powder two 
ounces of saltpeter, two ounces of black pepper, two 
ounces of allspice, one small nutmeg, one blade of 
mace, eight cloves; mix with twelve ounces of dairy 
salt, four ounces of pounded juniper berries, juice and 
all. Rub this mixture well into the meat, repeating 
daily for three weeks. Wash in cold water when ready 
to cook it ; place in a deep covered pan, as near the size 
of the meat as possible, and add half a pint of water. 
Keep covered tightly while cooking. 



FOWLS AND GAME 

Selection of Poultry 

When choosing poultry, select birds that are plump 
and broad across the breast, showing some fat in the 
back, with white, fine-grained skin, smooth legs and 
toes that may easily be broken when bent back. The 
absence of these signs indicates that the fowls are 
old. Poultry that is dry-picked is considered the best : 
poultry that has been scalded before picked, may be 
recognized by the skin, which will look smooth and be 
tightly drawn over the flesh. When purchasing 
spring chickens to broil, select those with yellow legs 
and firm, v/hite skin; those with dark legs are usually 
of an inferior quality. 



152 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Meat Glaze 

Meat glaze may be bought in bulk at large groceries 
and all it needs is to be put in a jar, which is set in a 
saucepan of boiling water till the glaze is melted. If 
preferred, however, it may be made at home, by tak- 
ing some strong, unseasoned stock, made from a shin 
of beef, carefully removing fat and passing it through 
a jelly bag till quite clear. It must then be placed on 
the fire and boiled rapidly till a little poured on a plate 
will set. Care must be taken to watch closely and stir 
constantly or it will burn. It will keep a long time if 
stored in small jars or glasses and kept in a dry place. 

Fried Chicken and Tomatoes 

Fry the chicken ; when done take up ; put slices of 
tomatoes in the frying fan, season with salt and pep- 
per, lay around the chicken and serve hot. 

Chicken Steak 

After separating from the body, divide the breast 
lengthwise and cut out the bone. Beat it slightly with 
a steak hammer and flatten it, and lay it on a slightly 
greased gridiron, over bright coals. Remove to a hot 
plate and put on it a piece of fresh butter the size of a 
walnut and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Pressed Chicken 

Take a large plump chicken, wipe well with a damp 
towel, put in a kettle and cover with boiling salted 
water. Place over a moderate fire and let simmer 
gently until very tender. When done, take the meat 
from the bones and cut in small pieces. Put the bones 
and scraps back into the kettle and let boil until the 
liquor is thick ; strain and season with salt and pepper. 
Arrange the chicken in a square tin mould, pour the 
liquor over it, place a light weight on top and stand 
in a cold place over night. When cold and firm, turn 
out of the mould, garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. Serve in thin slices. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 153 

Fried Chicken a la Creole 

Cut the chicken in pieces, dip in egg batter to 
which has been added two chopped tomatoes, one 
minced onion, with parsley, pepper and salt ; fry brown 
in boiling fat and serve with tomato sauce. 

Rissoles of Chicken 

Cut very young spring chicken in small pieces and 
parboil. Roll out squares of puff paste very thin, wrap 
the pieces of chicken in them and fry brown. 

Imitation Pate de Foie Gras 

Gizzards and livers of four fowls to three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, a chopped onion, one table- 
spoonful pungent sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
livers until quite done, drain and wipe dry ; when cold, 
rub to a paste. Let butter and chopped onion simmer 
together slowly for ten minutes. Strain through thin 
muslin; turn into a larger dish and mix with it the 
rest of the seasoning; work all together. Butter a 
small earthen jar and press the mixture down, inter- 
spersing with square bits of the boiled gizzard to 
represent truffles. Cover all with melted butter and 

set in a cool, dry place. 

i 

Chicken Jelly 

Chicken jelly is a food allowed in cases where the 
stomach cannot stand solid food. 

Prepare a full grown chicken. Put it on in a pot 
with two quarts of cold water. Let it boil steadily 
until the flesh will pull to pieces readily, then remove it, 
pour the liquor through a colander, return it to the pot 
and boil it down to about half a pint. Skim, salt to 
taste, pour in jelly moulds and set in a cold place to 
thicken. Make salad of the chicken. 



154 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COGK BOOK 
Breaded Spring Chicken 

Cut spring chicken into pieces, dip first in beaten 
eggf then in grated bread crumbs, seasoned with 
minced parsley, pepper and salt; place in a pan, lay 
bits of butter over, add a little water, set in the oven 
and bake slowly; baste often. "When done, take up, 
pour a teacupf ui of cream in the pan, stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of grated bread crumbs and serve in sauce 
bowl. Garnish the chicken with parsley. 

Chicken Croquettes 

Mince chicken enough to make two teacupf uls ; sea- 
son with half teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pep- 
per; add one teacupf ul of broth in which it was 
cooked, three eggs, the juice of a lemon, and a large 
teaspoonful of cream, or melted butter. Roll in eggs 
and biscuit crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. If the 
chicken broth is not to be obtained, substitute boiling 
water and another tablespoonful of butter or cream. 

Baked Chicken 

In the vessel in which the fowl is to be parboiled, 
have ready one quart of boiling salted water, using a 
teaspoonful of salt. Wash the fowl in weak soda 
water, wiping carefully inside and out. Place in the 
boiling water and cook slowly until quite tender, that 
is, until the joints separate easily, but not until it will 
fall to pieces. Remove it from the boiler, place in a 
hot oven, and brown quickly. With this baked chicken 
serve a dressing made as follows : Break into a bowl 
three cold biscuits, three cornmeal muffins (or same 
quantity of egg bread), and three crackers, or three 
slices of lightbread. Pour over this the stock in which 
the fowl was boiled. If this is not enough to moisten 
the bread thoroughly, use sweet milk, or boiling water 
and a small lump of butter. Let stand ten minutes 
or until it softens. • 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 155 
Dressed Chicken 

Cook as many chickens as may be needed until 
very tender, in water enough to have one teacupful of 
broth to each chicken. When tender chop the chicken 
fine, season to taste with salt, pepper and lemon juice. 
Place in a square pan, or individual moulds, then slices 
of green peppers; in the peppers place thin slices of 
'stuffed olives. Warm the chicken broth, dissolve a 
teaspoonful of gelatin to each teacupful of the broth, 
mix with the chicken and cover the pepper and olives 
a half inch thick. Then over the top sprinkle almonds 
parched and crushed. Set on ice to congeal. Serve 
on lettuce leaf, with mayonnaise or slice of lemon. 

Chicken a la Marengo , 

1 3-lb. chicken i^ cupful brown sauce 

6 mushrooms sliced l teaspoonful salt 

■^ cup stewed tomatoes A few truffles 

1 small onion minced 
Clean and dress and cut the chicken in small joints ; 
dry it carefully and fry to a good brown in olive oil or 
butter. Place in a braiser with seasonings and vege- 
tables, cover closely and simmer for half an hour, add- 
ing more water as it boils away. iServe on a chafing- 
dish. Garnish with croutons of puff paste and poached 
eggs. 

Chicken Pilau 

Wash the quantity of rice to be used and slightly 
brown in a frying pan with butter. The rice while 
browning will have to be stirred constantly. Boil the 
chicken in water enough to cook the rice. Then add 
the browned rice. Boil until the rice is done and almost 
dry. Season with any desired seasoning, cloves, cori- 
ander seed, allspice, cinnamon and whole peppers may 
be used, if liked, by placing in a bag and boiling with 
the chicken, being careful to remove before putting in 
the rice. Place the chicken in a dish, cover with the 
rice and garnish with crisp strips of bacon and sliced 
hard boiled eggs. 



156 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Fried Chicken With Mayonnaise 

Cut a young chicken as for frying. Put in a frying 
pan with four tablespoonfuls of olive oil. (Melted 
butter or other cooking oils will answer, if preferred.) 
Let the chicken brown on a moderate fire, then add a 
tablespoonful of sifted flour. When the flour is 
smoothly over the chicken, add a pint of water and a 
tablespoonful of butter. Let simmer for half an hour. 
Then add one small can of button mushrooms, halved. 
Season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar and 
one small onion. Cook five minutes, then remove the 
chicken, placing it on the serving dish. Reduce the 
dressing by boiling quickly a few minutes, pour over 
the chicken and garnish with narrow strips of toast 
and parsley. 

Beat into this two eggs, one level teaspoonful of 
salt, and half a level teaspoonful of pepper, one blade 
of celery chopped fine, or, if preferred, half teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped onion. Place in a stewpan one 
teaspoonful of lard, and when thoroughly hot turn in 
the dressing and cook twenty minutes, stirring just 
enough to keep from browning to the bottom. 

Spring Chicken Dressed as Terrapin 

Boil two young chickens whole, cut in pieces and 
put in a saucepan with a pint of soup stock and add a 
tablespoonful of butter; season with salt and pepper. 
When hot, stir in a beaten egg, two hard boiled eggs 
chopped fine, a glass of currant jelly, and the juice of 
half a lemon. Take up and serve with currant jelly. 

Smother-Broiled Chicken 

Dress a couple of broiling sized chickens (split open 
in the back) ; soak half an hour in salt water, place in 
a stewpan, cover with hot water and boil until tender. 
Then put in the oven and brown, basting with half 
teacupful of liquor they were boiled in, a teaspoonful 
of butter and some pepper. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 157 
Deviled Chicken 

In a baking pan put two teacupfuls of fresh sweet 
milk, and four pieces of toasted lightbread; place this 
over the fire, and when the toast is soft, add one and a 
half teacupfuls of chopped or ground chicken, one blade 
of celery ground with the chicken, three or four eggs, 
salt and pepper to taste, adding a dash of cayenne. 
Stir lightly together until well mixed, then bake in a 
quick oven fifteen minutes, when it should be a nice 
brown over the top. 

Broiled Chicken 

After the young chickens have been dressed and cut 
open through the back, keep them for twelve hours; 
if in summer, keep in a refrigerator. Fifteen minutes 
before putting them on to cook, place them in strong 
salt water. Take from the salt water, place in a 
granite pan with one teacupful of boiling water, a 
heaping teaspoonful of butter, and a little pepper to 
each chicken. Place in the oven and cook one hour, 
basting every fifteen minutes. Serve on squares of 
toast, pouring the gravy over the chicken. 

To Smother-Broil Chicken 

Prepare the fowls as directed for broiling. Place in 
a pan with one and a half teacupfuls of hot water and 
a heaping teaspoonful of butter. Cover the vessel and 
let boil slowly until very tender, then rub them over 
with butter, placing them in a dry pan and brown them 
in hot oven. To the liquor add one tablespoonful of 
sherry, a teaspoonful of sugar, half teaspoonful of 
salt, a little pepper, and a heaping teaspoonful of 
flour, rubbed smooth with a half teaspoonful of butter, 
and stirred into the gravy ; or the flour may be mixed 
to a smooth paste with a little water, then stirred into 
boiling gravy. After the chickens are brown, pour this 
gravy over them, cover, and keep hot half an hour 
before serving. 



158 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Deviled Chicken in Peppers 

Cut the large green bell peppers in half, and remove 
the seed, dropping them in cold water. 

Grind cold chicken, and season with salt, pepper 
and celery; add two cups of meat, one cup of bread 
crumbs, four eggs, and one cup of sweet milk. Mix 
well, fill the halves of peppers, dust over the tops with 
bread crumbs, place a small piece of butter on top of 
each, and bake in a hot oven until a nice brown. Serve 
very hot, garnishing with the delicate leaves of celery, 
parsley or endive. 

Chicken Pie 

Joint a young chicken, put in a saucepan v/ith two 
cupf uls of hot water, half teaspoonf ul of salt, and a lit- 
tle pepper, and cook until tender. Have ready a bak- 
ing pan, lined with pastry; place the chicken in the 
pan, and pour over it the liquor, and if there is not 
enough to nearly cover the chicken, add hot water and 
a little salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. Roll thin 
the pastry for the top. Cut in inch wide strips and 
place over the chicken, letting the strips come well 
over the edge of the pan. Then cross the strips, or 
the top crust may be put in plain. 

Chicken Stew With Baked Dumplings 

Prepare for cooking one or more young chickens; 
cut up as for frying ; put in a cooking vessel and cover 
with hot water, salted. Boil until tender, then thicken 
with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed together with a 
dessertspoonful of butter ; add a good pinch of pepper. 
Meanwhile make a buttermilk biscuit dough — rather 
short — and roll quite thin; cut into strips an inch 
broad and three inches long and bake in a quick oven. 
V/hen the stew is done, place the dumplings in a deep 
covered dish and pour over them the stew. Serve at 
once. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 159 

Chicken and Tomatoes 

Put into a baking pan a layer of ripe, sliced toma- 
toes; lay the chicken on top, after preparing it as if 
for broiling. Season this with butter, salt, pepper, 
and a little flour sifted over it ; then put another layer 
of tomatoes; spread a layer of butter on them, cover 
with another pan and smother. Chicken cooked with 
rice is also nice in this way. 

Creamed Chicken 

Take the white meat of very tender chicken; slice 
thin, and if not seasoned, sprinkle with a little salt and 
pepper. Then make a cream dressing and pour over 
it, and serve very hot. Take the dark part of the 
chicken and make a salad, terrapin, deviled, or jellied 
chicken. 

Good Chicken Pie 

Parboil one large fowl, or two small ones; line a 
deep pie pan with pastry rolled thin, made as one 
would for buttermilk, or baking powder biscuit, making 
a little shorter. Now put in on the pastry a layer 
of chicken, then a layer of pastry rolled thin and cut 
into strips an inch wide and two inches long. (These 
are called dumplings.) Next put in a layer of chicken 
and so on until all the chicken is in; now cover with 
the pastry rolled thin. Cut two or three slits in the 
middle, pour in two teacupfuls of the liquor in which 
the chicken was boiled, having stirred in the latter a 
tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste. 
When the pie is half done, replenish with more of the 
water in which the fowl was boiled. Add a pint of 
oysters, if liked. 

Old Virginia Chicken Pie 

Line a deep pan with plain biscuit dough. Have 
two spring chickens cut in pieces ; put in the pan with 
thin slices of fat bacon, a pint of boiling water, three 
hard boiled eggs, salt and pepper. Cover with a top 
crust, and bake slowly for two hours. 



160 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Fried Chicken 

Nothing but a young, very plump chicken will be 
good fried. As the chicken is dressed, cut off the 
wings, then the legs, then the thighs (using a sharp 
knife, and being careful to cut just where it is jointed). 
Then separate the breast from the back, dividing the 
body of the chicken into two parts. Cut the breast in 
two pieces lengthwise, as nearly equal in size as pos- 
sible; then cut the back crosswise, making two pieces. 
If the chickens are very small, cut off the wings, then 
cut the fowl in four pieces. The chicken should be 
killed the day before using, and kept in a cool place. 
Fifteen minutes before cooking, put in salt water, 
using a heaping teaspoonful of salt to each capful of 
water, letting the water come up well over the fowl. 
Take them out of the water, dry lightly ; have in an- 
other vessel a cupful of sifted flour for each fowl. Dip 
each piece of chicken in this, being careful that it 
is well covered with the flour. Fry in enough boiling 
lard to come up well on the edges of each piece. Do 
not move after it is placed in the lard, until it is a 
nice light brown; then quickly brown on the other 
side. Never crowd the chicken so that the pieces will 
steam where they touch each other. It must be fried 
quickly so it will not absorb the grease. 

Chicken Salad 

Cook chicken until very tender, then cut the 
chicken very fine with scissors. Do not grind. For 
one chicken use one teacupful of celery, one hard 
boiled eggy one green pepper. Mix this with mayon- 
naise, or use half teacupful of good vinegar, half tea- 
spoonful pepper, half of salt and one of sugar. If the 
last is to be used, when the chicken has been cut, pour 
over it half cupful of the top, or richest part of the 
liquor in which the chicken was boiled. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 161 

Creamed Oysters 

Place one quart of oysters in their own liquor on 
the back of the stove or range, letting them heat 
gradually; season with a half teaspoonful of salt and 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of white pepper. 

In a large porcelain lined, or granite pan, put one 
heaping tablespoonful of fresh butter. When it melts, 
sift into it two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring 
constantly. When this is smooth, turn in quickly a 
pint of fresh sweet milk and a teacupful of cream; 
stir until the consistency of thick cream, then set 
back while draining the oysters. Season the cream 
sauce with a teaspoonful of salt and a little white pep- 
per, and if hked, a dash of cayenne; then turn in 
the oysters and serve on toast, cut in crescent shape, 
three pieces being on each tea-plate, the points 
being turned out and garnished with endive or parsley. 
Cut the crescents from light bread with a large biscuit 
cutter, cutting two from each slice of bread. 

If preferred, serve the creamed oysters in timbales 
or patty shells. If in timbales, garnish with small 
French peas — using one can; heating them with a 
teaspoonful of butter, and a half teaspoonful each of 
salt and white pepper, and placing a teaspoonful on top 
of each timbale as they are filled. 

To Broil Chicken 

Take as many young chickens as needed; after 
dressing, split them open on back, place in a flat vessel 
with one cupful of boiling water. Take one small 
onion, cut fine, brown in one teaspoonful of butter, add 
one-half teaspoonful of paprika, one teaspoonful of 
salt, baste the chickens with this while cooking. 
When nearly tender, add one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour that has been rubbed smooth in butter. Shake 
until this all dissolves. Then add one teacupful of 
Tokay or celery wine. Let it stand where it will keep 
hot for half an hour before serving. 



162 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Roast Turkey 

Clean and prepare a medium-sized turkey for roast- 
ing. Cut two onions in pieces, and put in sauce-pan 
with one ounce of butter and color slightly. Grate a 
pound of stale bread; add this to the onions with the 
gizzard and liver chopped fine, one-fourth of a pound 
of butter, and salt and pepper to taste, and mix lightly 
together. Stuff turkey with this mixture, sew up the 
opening and put to roast with a little butter on top, 
and a half teacupful of water. Roast in a moderate 
oven, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound, basting 
frequently. Renew the water as often as necessary, 
using boiling water for the purpose. When ready to 
serve, thicken the gravy with a teaspoonful of butter 
rubbed with a teaspoonful of flour. Stir until the 
proper consistency. 

Canvas Back Duck 

Dress and rub inside and out with salt and pepper. 
Roast in a hot oven twenty minutes to the pound, 
basting with a teacupful of water and a tablespoonful 
of butter. Serve hot, with thin slices of fried hominy, 
and currant jelly. 

Sweetbread Stuffing, for Turkey or Chicken 

Soak a set of sweetbreads in cold, salt water for 
half an hour ; then drain and blanch with boiling water, 
and remove the membrane and pipes, if there are 
any. Place over the fire, in enough boiling water to 
cover, adding one teaspoonful of salt. Cook until ten- 
der — ^fifteen or twenty minutes — and remove from the 
fire. Make an ordinary bread dressing, as directed. 
Chop the sweetbreads fine, and break into them two 
raw eggs; stir lightly with a fork, and mix quickly 
into the bread dressing as directed, and proceed to 
stuff the fowl. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 163 
Roast Duck with Olive Sauce 

Have carefully dressed one large, plump duck. 
Rub inside and out with salt. Cut into small pieces, 
without paring, one or two cooking apples; with this 
stuff the duck. Place it in a roasting pan with two- 
thirds of a teacupful of boiling water and half tea- 
spoonful of butter, and cover carefully. Place in hot 
oven ; after five or ten minutes reduce the temperature 
of the oven ; cook twenty minutes to the pound. Baste 
frequently ; if necessary, replenish the hot water in the 
pan. When tender remove the cover and rub the fowl 
with half teaspoonful of butter, put back in the oven 
and brown briskly. Remove from the roasting-pan to 
a hot dish to be carved, or on which it is to be served, 
remove the apple stuffing (which is used to give flavor 
to the meat, but is fit for no other use). Garnish 
with parsley or endive and sliced lemons. 

For the sauce, place the pan v/ith the gravy on 
top of the stove, and stir into it a teaspoonful of butter, 
and one of flour which have been rubbed together to 
a smooth paste. Stir until smooth and of a creamy 
consistency. Have ready twelve olives, which have 
been carefully peeled, as one would peel an apple from 
the stones. Stir into the sauce one tablespoonful of 
the liquor from sugared cherries, and just before turn- 
ing into the sauce bowl, stir in the olive rings. One 
two pound duck will serve five persons. 

Chicken Terrapin, in Timbales 

For twelve persons: One large hen, one pint of 
cream, or rich sweet milk, one heaping tablespoonful 
of butter, two tablespoonf uls of flour, one can of mush- 
rooms (culls) half teacupful of sherry, one teaspoonful 
of salt, quarter teaspoonful of white pepper, same of 
cayenne, one can small French peas, twelve timbales. 

Put the hen on in boiling water, cooking slowly 
until tender. Remove the meat from the bones, re- 
jecting the skill, and cut into dice. Open the mush- 



164 THE NEW ANNIE- DENNIS COOK BOOK 

rooms, and chip fine. Open the peas, turn into a stew- 
pan, with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white 
pepper, and a teaspoonful of butter, and set back on 
range to heat slowly. 

In large porcelain lined, or granite pan, put the 
butter over the fire. When this melts, sift into it 
the flour, stirring constantly ; when smooth turn in the 
cream or milk, continuing to stir the mixture; when 
this is of the consistency of thick cream, stir in the 
minced chicken and mushrooms, and the salt and pep- 
per. Let cook a few minutes, then stir in the sherry. 
Try a little to see if it is properly seasoned. Serve a 
tablespoonful in each timbale, putting on top of each a 
teaspoonful of the hot peas, or the terrapin may be 
served in the halves of bell peppers, from which the 
seeds have been removed, bread-crumbs being sprin- 
kled over the top, a small lump of butter added, and 
put in a hot oven for five minutes to brown. 

Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms 

1 teacupful boiled chicken 1 teacupful mushrooms, 
chopped in one-half in. chopped 

pieces (white meat pre- 1 teacupful cream dressing 
ferred) 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 green pepper sliced thin 

Place in a boiler and heat. This serves six people. 

Pepper may be omitted. 

Chicken Loaf 

Use same recipe as for pressed chicken, using only 
white meat and one teacupful of grated boiled or baked 
ham. Cut one-half teacupful of truffles fine and mix 
thoroughly. 

Take a loaf of sandwich bread, slice off one end, 
hollow out the loaf, leaving crust one-half inch thick. 
Dry out in an oven. When cool, fill with the mixture 
and place on ice. When moulded, slice thin and serve 
with tartare sauce. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 165 
Chestnut Stuffing for Turkey 

Shell and blanch (by pouring over them boiling 
water, and letting it remain five or ten minutes, then 
slipping the skin) one quart of chestnuts. Put them 
on to cook in boiling water; when tender, drain and 
chop. Season with one teaspoonful of salt, quarter 
teaspoonf ul of butter. The addition of two tablespoon- 
fuls of heavy cream improves the flavor, but it is not 
necessary. Mix in the dressing one teacupful of very 
small button mushrooms, and proceed to stuff the 
turkey. 

Roast Wild Turkey 

Rub the inside of the turkey with salt and cayenne, 
hang before a brisk fire, baste with melted butter, and 
turn frequently until done. Cut up the gizzard and 
liver, stew in a little water, to which add a half teacup- 
ful of cream and a tablespoonful of butter; mix with 
the gravy. Serve the turkey with apple sauce. 

Boned Turkey 

Choose a young hen that has been dry picked with 
skin unbroken. If killed the day before, it should 
have been washed, cleaned, wrapped in a damp cloth, 
and hung in a cool place. The work can be done much 
easier if the bird is not drawn. Singe, remove pin 
feathers and head, separate legs and wings at the first 
joint, lay the bird on a board, breast down. 

Begin at the neck with a sharp pointed knife, cut 
through the skin the entire length of body. Scrape 
away all the meat from the backbone and sides, mak- 
ing a cut across the pope's nose, taking it off whole. 
Turn the flesh back from the bone while working, 
take off the leg and wing on one side before touching 
the other, free wishbones and collarbones, at same 
time removing crop and windpipe. When the ridge 
of the breastbone is reached it is better to cut off a 
thin layer of cartilage with the skin than to run any 



166 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

risk of breaking through. Scrape flesh and when the 
boning is finished lay the bird open on a damp cloth 
and bring every part to proper position. Where meat 
is thick shave off slices to place on thinner portions 
that the meat may be a uniform thickness. 

Spread over all a layer of forcemeat an inch thick, 
place on this a layer of tongue, pork and veal, or pork 
tenderloin, dotted with truffles cut in small strips, put 
a layer of very thin slices of fat pork on top; bring 
the sides together carefully and sew from end to end, 
roll firmly in cloth and place in a braising pan with two 
sliced onions and carrots, two teaspoonfuls salt, trim- 
mings of the meat, parsley, a dozen peppercorns, three 
stalks of celery, a blade of mace and a clove; pack the 
crushed bones of the turkey around and cover with 
white stock. Bring to a boil quickly, then cook slowly 
three or four hours. Cool in the liquor, take off the 
cloth and roll it again closely, press under a heavy 
weight. Reduce the stock to three pints, strain, cool, 
remove the fat and clear, reheat. 

Soak two-thirds of a package of gelatine in a cup of 
cold water for twenty minutes, strain, add the hot 
broth; strain one-half pint into a mould and the re- 
mainder into two pans ; color one with one teaspoonf ul 
and the other with two teaspoonfuls of caramel. Use 
the jelly when stiff to garnish the turkey, with peas, 
canned mushrooms and fancy cut vegetables. Garnish 
also v/ith celery tips and groups of forcemeat balls. 

The giblets may be used for forcemeat balls. Chop 
them very fine, mix with an equal bulk of bread 
crumbs, allow one teaspoonful of butter to each cupful 
of the mixture, season highly, moisten with one egg 
yolk, make in balls the size of a hickory nut and brown 
in hot butter. 

Watercress Garnish 

Pick and wash well the cress, dry it thoroughly 

and season with a little oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 167 

Grouse au Cresson 

Pick, singe and truss the bird, tying a piece of 
sliced bacon over the breast of each ; roast for fifteen 
minutes, and serve garnished with watercress and fried 
bread crumbs. Serve with sauce and gravy. 

Venison. (Old Kentucky Huntsman's Recipe.) 

Take a haunch of venison, put in a large kettle, 
cover with water, and boil until tender; drain off the 
water, put half a pound of butter with salt and pepper 
in the kettle, set over a moderate fire and let brown, 
first on one side and then on the other. Venison 
•cooked in this way retains its natural flavor, and will 
be found delicious. 

Fricassed Rabbit 

Dress and disjoint the rabbit, put into a stew pan 
and season with salt, pepper and parsley, chopped fine. 
Pour over a pint of warm water and stew over a slow 
fire until quite tender, adding when nearly done, some 
bits of butter rolled in flour, and before taking from 
the fire, add a gill of rich cream, or the same amount 
of fresh milk, with beaten yolk of one egg. Stir the 
gravy well, taking care not to let it boil after the cream 
or milk is added. 

Or, prepare like grouse. 

'Possum 

To prepare for cooking: Place an axe handle 
across the neck, hold the tail and pull until the neck is 
broken. Meanwhile have ready a pot of boiling oak 
lye, made of a quart of oak ashes and a gallon or 
more of water. As soon as the neck is broken, put the 
'possum in this, for a minute; take out and scrape 
clean; open down the breast, remove the entrails and 
wash thoroughly. Hang in a cool place until ready 
to use. 



168 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
'Possum Roasted with Sweet Potatoes 

Dress ; rub inside and out with salt and red or black 
pepper; place in a roasting pan with a teacupful of 
boiling water, a tablespoonful of butter, one of vine- 
gar and a half dozen or more small potatoes, peeled. 
Baste the meat frequently; when tender, remove to a 
dish and garnish with the potatoes and parsley. 

Stewed 'Possum 

Stew as directed for beef, using either sweet or 
Irish potatoes. 

Smother-Broiled Birds 

Robins, partridges, rice birds, doves and larks may 
be prepared just as young chickens and squabs. 

Fried Rabbit 

Prepare and fry as directed for frying chicken. 

Stewed Birds, Served With Cream Sauce 

Stew in a covered vessel six birds in a teacupful 
of water until quite tender ; then add one tablespoonful 
of butter, a teacupful of sweet cream and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Let boil up well and serve in a hot cov- 
ered dish. This is a delicious breakfast dish. 

Squabs (Young Pigeons) 

Clean and soak in salt water half an hour ; put in a 
stewpan with just enough water to cover. When the 
water has nearly boiled out, place in a hot stove and 
brown ; baste with butter, pepper and a little vinegar. 

Fried Bread Crumbs 

Lay some finely grated bread crumbs in a baking 
dish in the oven, with a good lump of butter. Stir 
them occasionally and serve them when the butter is 
all absorbed and the crumbs crisped and a golden 
brown. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 169 

HASHES AND STEWS 

Chicken, turkey, game, mutton, kid, lamb, or pork, 
may be used instead of beef in the recipes for "Baked 
Hash No. 2," "Milk Hash," "Dry Hash'' and "Hash on 
Toast," using no butter, when pork is the meat se- 
lected. Mix the thickening for hash, or stews, in a 
teacup, with a fork and it will never be lumpy. Of 
course the paste must be well beaten. 

Baked Hash, No. 1 

Mince and season highly, cold meat; put it into a 
baking dish with some gravy, left over; fill the dish 
about half full, then put creamed Irish potatoes over 
the top and brown in the oven. 

Baked Hash, No. 2 

Cut cold beef left from soup, in very small pieces, 
and put into baking dish. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a little onion, or onion juice. Cut into blocks sev- 
eral cold, boiled Irish potatoes and a teaspoonful of 
butter ; add these, and for a quart of this mixture, add 
half a teacupful of water. A little celery or parsley 
chopped fine and added gives a good flavor; this may 
be used with, or instead of the onion. Bake half an 
hour. 

Milk Hash 

Cut or shred three teacupfuls of cold, boiled beef, 
or chicken; place in a stew pan as much cold water, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of pepper, one 
small onion or one tablespoonful of celery, cut fine. 
Let this boil for twenty minutes; add a teacupful of 
sweet milk, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour — sifted 
— mixed with water and cook five minutes longer. 
Add a teaspoonful of fresh butter and serve in cov- 
ered dish. Mix the paste for thickening in a teacup, 
with a fork. 



170 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Hash and Toast 

Mince two teacupf uls of beef left from soup ; place 
in a stew pan with three teacupf uls of cold water, half 
teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a little onion 
chopped fine. Boil twenty minutes; thicken with 
a teaspoonful of flour mixed with water, let cool five 
minutes longer; add a teaspoonful of butter. Have 
ready twelve small pieces of light bread, or six stale 
biscuits toasted; place in deep dish, pour the hash 
over and cover. Serve hot. 

Egg Broth 

Whip an egg to a light froth; then stir into it a 
half pint of good veal or mutton broth quite hot ; add a 
little salt and serve with toast. 

Dumpling Stew 

Make a stew of chicken or beef, as directed for beef 
stew; substitute dumplings made of baking powder 
biscuit dough for the potatoes ; put the dumplings on 
the meat, and cook until done. Add a teaspoonful of 
butter. 

Beef Stew, No. 1 

Take two pounds of beef (brisket) and boil for 
an hour and a half in just enough water to cover, then 
put in six Irish potatoes (peeled), and boil until done. 
Season to taste with salt, pepper and butter. Add 
water if needed. There should be just enough for 
gravy. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with water. 

Beef Stew, No. 2 
Place one pound of beef (the brisket) in enough 
boiling water to cover, with a teaspoonful of salt. Boil 
until tender. Pour off the water for soup or stock, 
cut the beef into medium sized pieces, and put in a 
stew pan. Meanwhile boil three Irish poltatoes in 
jackets; when the beef is ready peel the Irish potatoes, 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 171 

break with a fork, and add to the beef, with salt to 
taste, together with two teacupfuls of boiling water, 
a little pepper, and a heaping teaspoonful of butter. 
Cook for ten minutes ; then thicken with a teaspoonful 
of flour mixed with water. Let boil up well; cook 
two minutes longer and serve. The meat from soup 
is very good for this stew. 

Irish Potato Stew 

Slice thin four boiled potatoes. Place in a stew- 
pan with one teacupful of sweet milk, and one of 
water (or all milk, if plentiful), salt and pepper to 
taste. Let boil; then thicken with one tablespoonful 
of flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold water; then 
stir in a teaspoonful of butter and pepper to taste. 
Let simmer ten minutes, then serve. 

Dry Hash 

Shred the meat and proceed as for Hash No. 2; 
cook in a covered stew pan on top of the stove. 



SANDWICHES AND CROQUETTES 

When making sandwiches, trim the crust from a 
loaf of fresh bread, butter the end, then cut off a thin 
slice, butter and cut again, until all is buttered. This 
prevents the bread breaking, or tearing when buttered. 
Now spread with whatever meat or paste is to be 
used, putting together two slices; if liked, tie with 
narrow ribbons, and serve. 

Lobster Sandwiches 

Pound the flesh of a freshly boiled lobster to a 
smooth paste, adding, while pounding, a sufficient 
seasoning of salt, pepper and pounded mace; moisten 
with a little warmed butter and mix thoroughly. 
Spread the preparation between some small, daintily 
prepared croutons and mask the top with thick 
bechamel sauce. 



172 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

A Dainty Sandwich 
A dainty sandwich is made by frizzling the thinnest 
possible bacon till it can be crushed with a fork, then 
spread it between slices of bread and butter. 

Sandwiches a la Parisienne 

These delicious little "tid-bits'* can be made with 
either fish, poultry, game, or ordinary meats, but we 
will suppose that the first named is being used. Free 
the fish from bones and skin, mince it finely, season 
rather highly with salt and cayenne, and put it into a 
basin with two hard boiled eggs, finely chopped, and 
sufficient sauce of some kind — ''tartar" being preferred 
— to moisten the whole. Mix all these ingredients 
well; then spread the preparation between slices of 
thinly cut brown or white bread and butter ; stamp out 
in small rounds, squares, or finger shapes, press to- 
gether and butter the tops. Sprinkle on half of the 
sandwiches a little very finely chopped mustard and 
cress and hard boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a fine 
sieve; and on the other half, the mustard and cress 
and the white of the egg chopped vdry fine. Arrange 
the sandwiches in twos — one of each color — on tiny 
plates and garnish with a little tuft of mustard and 
cress at each corner. 

Pineapple Sandwiches 

Spread slices of bread with grated pineapple cheese, 
lightly mixed with chow-chow sauce, the liquid part 
of chow-chow pickle. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop hard boiled eggs fine, with cucumber pickles; 
add pepper and salt and a little mayonnaise. Rub 
smooth with a silver knife; spread between slices of 
buttered bread. 

Ham Sandwiches 

Mix grated ham with mayonnaise, and spread be- 
tween slices of thinly cut bread. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 173 
Deviled Ham Sandwiches 

Remove ham from can and rub enough to soften; 
then spread on bread cut thin, and just before putting 
the pieces together, pass over each one a knife which 
has been dipped in chow-chow or mayonnaise. 

Neufchatel Sandwiches 

Mash one neufchatel cheese with half tablespoon- 
ful of soft butter, one tablespoonful of sherry wine, 
two tablespoonfuls of English, or black walnuts, finely 
chopped; season with salt and cayenne pepper, and 
spread between butter thins. 

Pepper Sandwiches 

Slice bread thin, butter before cutting, spread 
with mayonnaise dressing, then place a slice of red 
pimento, then the mayonnaise, then another slice of 
red pimento, then the mayonnaise, then another slice 
of buttered bread; press firmly. Serve on lettuce 
leaves or place a lettuce leaf and a thin slice of crisp 
bacon between the pepper and bread. 

Lenten Sandwich 

Chop hard boiled eggs fine, with cucumber pickles ; 
add a lobster; add a half teaspoonful of butter, mix 
all together into a paste ; season with salt, cayenne and 
lemon juice. Slice light bread very thin, spread with 
the mixture, lay a leaf of crisp lettuce over each slice, 
cover with another slice of buttered bread, cut the 
sandwiches in half, and serve on a napkin. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

1 small cream cheese V2 cupful melted butter 

1/2 cupful English walnuts % cupful thick cream 
(rolled fine) 
Make a paste of the mixture, thinning with more 
cream if too stiff; spread between thin slices of bread. 
Season highly with salt and paprika. 



174 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Oyster Sandwiches 

Take cold stewed oysters ; put into a chopping bowl 
which has been rubbed with raw onion. Chop oysters 
very fine; add pepper and salt, a pinch of powdered 
mace, and a small slice of cold boiled ham. Pour in 
sufficient of the liquor in which they have been cooked 
to reduce the mixture to a paste, adding a little lemon 
juice; then with a silver knife spread each slice of 
bread with it. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches 

y2 teacupful chopped raisins 1 cream cheese 

Va teacupful rolled almonds V2 cupful melted butter 

Thin with cream and season with salt and paprika. 

Cut the bread very thin. 

Date Sandwich 

Use recipe for cream cheese sandwich, adding 
chopped seeded dates, and using almonds in place of 
English walnuts. Butter bread. Either brown bread 
or white may be used, or one slice of each, placing 
brown bread on top and white underneath. 

Egg and Tomata Sandwiches 

Mash the yolks of hard boiled eggs, add thick cream 
or melted butter to make a paste, season with salt, 
pepper, curry powder and a little tomato catsup. 
Spread the paste on thin slices of bread and place a 
slice of tomato between. 

Club Sandwiches 

Toast medium slices of bread, that have had the 
crusts cut from them. Spread each slice of bread 
with good mayonnaise dressing. Then on one slice of 
bread place a lettuce leaf, and a slice of chicken ; then 
a slice of bread, covered with crisp slices of breakfast 
bacon; then a slice of tomato and the slice of bread 
that has the mayonnaise on it. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 175 

Sweet Sandwiches 

Cut slices from a plain loaf cake, as you would bread 
for sandwiches. For a filling, cream fresh butter with 
sugar, in equal quantities, and add melted chocolate 
and flavoring. When this is the desired consistency, 
spread between the slices of cake. If liked, the sand- 
wiches may be dipped in melted sweet chocolate, 
standing them on end to dry. 

Olives and Liver Sandwiches 

Rub smooth as many boiled chicken livers as may 
be desired. To each two livers add four finely chopped 
olives and two teaspoonfuls of mayonnaise. Mix and 
season with red pepper and salt. Spread between thin 
slices of buttered bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Chop very fine one small onion, nine olives, one 
green pepper, tablespoonful of chow-chow pickle, and 
add one cupful of grated cream cheese. Mix all with 
the mustard from the chow-chow, or with mayonnaise. 
Spread between thin slices of bread. 

Hominy Croquettes 

Boil one cup of fine grits in three cups of water 
until thoroughly done, take from the fire, season with 
salt and beat into them three eggs and half a cupful 
of cream. When cold, make into balls, roll in egg, 
then in bread crumbs, and fry. 

Chicken Croquettes 

Cut fine one pound of chicken, in meat cutter, sea- 
son highly with salt and pepper; take four or five 
slices of loaf bread and drop them into water, in which 
the chicken was boiled; beat yolks of four eggs, take 
the bread from the water and stir into the yolks; 
then put it on the fire, stirring until it becomes smooth, 
adding one tablespoonful of butter ; chop up one blade 
of celery very fine, stir into the meat; make cakes, dip 
in egg and roll in bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard. 



176 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Caviar Sandwiches 

Butter a thin slice of bread with oil mayonnaise, 
then on this place a crisp lettuce leaf. On the lettuce 
place a very thin slice of Roquefort cheese and on this 
a layer of caviar, a slice of Spanish pepper, a second 
lettuce leaf, and then the bread, buttered with the oil 
mayonnaise. 

Irish Potato Croquettes 
Boil, mash, season and cream, four large potatoes ; 
make into balls or cakes and fry in boiling lard ; when 
done, place on brown paper, to absorb as much grease 
as possible. Keep warm until served. Add finely 
minced chicken, ham, veal or pork, if liked. 

Ham or Fresh Pork Croquettes 

Boil, mash, season with butter, salt and pepper and 
cream, three or four large Irish potatoes. Stir into 
them one teacupf ul of finely chopped, cold boiled ham, 
or cold boiled fresh pork (only the lean meat). Make 
into cakes and fry in boiling lard. 

Salmon Croquettes 

Take equal parts of canned salmon (after drawing 
off the oil) and mashed potatoes ; season with salt and 
pepper, dip in egg, roll in biscuit crumbs, and fry in 
boiling lard. Serve immediately. 

Cod Fish BaUs 

For codfish balls, take two cupfuls of pickled codfish 
(salt) two cupfuls of mashed potatoes, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one-fourth cupful of sweet milk and some 
pepper. Pick the codfish into small pieces, soak it in 
€old water for half an hour, then drain and pour over 
it enough boiling water to cover ; cook fifteen minutes. 
Drain and press out all water, then mix with potatoes, 
which should be well beaten ; add all the other ingredi- 
ents and beat well. Form into balls, roll in beaten egg, 
then in bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 177 

Rice Croquettes 

Take one teacupful of boiled rice, warm or cold, 
and one-half a cupful of cracker or bread crumbs, two 
or three eggs well beaten and salt to season. Mix the 
rice and crumbs in the eggs, with the salt, make into 
small balls and fry in boiling lard. When done, place 
for a few minutes on brown paper to absorb the grease. 

Green corn croquettes are made the same way, sub- 
stituting corn for rice. 

Fish Croquettes 

Rub together one tablespoonful of flour and one of 
butter, and stir into half pint of boiling milk. Add a 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley and a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of onion juice. Cook this paste until it 
is thick, add two cupfuls of cold boiled fish and boil 
up again. Remove it from the fire, season it with 
pepper and salt. When cold, make into balls, or cylin- 
ders, dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in 
boihng lard. Serve on a napkin. 

Breakfast Bacon 

Slice very thin, place on a broiler and cook, not too 
fast, until crisp and just a light brown. 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches 

One cream cheese, one-half teacupful of pounded 
peanuts, one tablespoonful melted butter, one-half tea- 
cupful of cream; salt and pepper. Make a paste of 
these ingredients, and spread a thin layer between 
slices of bread. 

Plate Sandwiches 

Spread between thinly buttered slices of fresh 
bread, grated cheese and a layer of finely chopped 
dates. 

Caviar Sandwiches 

Place between thin slices of buttered bread a layer 
of caviar, salted to taste. 



178 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Cucumber Sandwiches 
Slice thin large cucumbers. Place slices between 
bread, cut in round slices that have been spread with 
mayonnaise. 

Raisin Sandwiches 

One cupful of seeded raisins, one-half cupful of 
walnuts. Chop raisins and nuts fine and mix with 
enough mayonnaise dressing to fonn a paste. Spread 
between buttered bread. 

Haw to Cook Bacon 

Lay thin slices on a bacon rack, place in the oven 
and broil until brown. Cooked this way, the bacon 
does not crinkle. 

Tomato Sandwich 

Cut thin slices of white bread round, just a bit 
larger than the tomatoes. After spreading the bread 
with mayonnaise, place a slice of peeled tomato be- 
tween the slices. 

Cheese Dreams 

Spread a thin layer of American cheese or Swiss 
cheese between thin slices of white bread cut round. 
Fry in hot butter a light brown. Serve hot. 

Deviled Chicken Sandwiches 

Cover thin slices of bread with fresh crisp lettuce 
leaves. Spread with deviled chicken, garnishing with 
olives stuffed with pimentoes. 

Salmon Sandwiches 

Pick the salmon to pieces, season with mayonnaise, 
salt and pepper. Spread on slice of bread, put thin 
slices of cucumber on this, and then another slice of 
bread with mayonnaise. Put together and serve. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 179 

SAUCES FOR MEATS, ETC. 

Drawn Butter 

Take a teacupful of fresh butter, mix with it a 
half teacupful of flour, add a pint of hot water. Set 
the tin vessel containing this mixture in a large one 
of boiling water. Shake it constantly until it is melted 
and begins to simmer. Let it boil up once, then re- 
move from the fire. 

Cream Sauce 

Melt one tablespoonf ul of butter ; when hot and bub- 
bling, add one tablespoonf ul of sifted flour; cook until 
frothy, stirring constantly. Add slowly, two teacup- 
fuls of sweet milk, and salt and pepper to taste, let all 
come to the boiling point ; and it is ready for use. 

Chili Sauce 

Twenty-four large tomatoes, eight red peppers, 
eight onions, medium size, four tablespoonfuls of salt, 
four teacupfuls of vinegar; chop peppers and onions 
fine, stew with tomatoes, add the vinegar and bottle 
while hot. 

A Good Mushroom Sauee 

One large spoonful of butter, place this in a sauce 
pan; one small finely chopped onion and a small piece 
of carrot; a little thyme, whole pepper. Trim close, 
let brown slightly, stir in slowly one tablespoonful of 
flour, then add one-half cupful of sherry wine and one 
and a half cupfuls of bouillon. Stir in a spoonful of 
the bottled mushroom sauce and let simmer slowly for 
half an hour. This is nice to serve with mushrooms 
and sweetbreads. After the sweetbreads have been 
parboiled, cut them up with equal quantity of mush- 
rooms; fry them in butter in a granite pan, and just 
before taking from the fire, pour over the sauce which 
has been strained and kept warm. Let boil up once 
and serve very hot. 



180 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Egg Sauce for Meats or Fish 

Make a pint of drawn butter, add one tablespoonf ul 
of pepper or Worcestershire sauce, a little salt and 
four hard boiled eggs, chopped fine. Pour over baked 
meat or fish or serve in a sauce bowL 

Bechamel Sauce 

Put in a stew pan two ounces of fresh butter and 
four ounces of flour; knead together with a wooden 
spoon and add a pint and a half of cold milk, one onion, 
a little thyme, a bay leaf, a little parsley and three or 
four mushrooms (all these vegetables cut thin). Stir 
the sauce over the fire ; boil a little while, then pass it 
through a fine strainer; put back in a stew pan and 
boil for ten minutes with half pint of cream. 

Drawn Butter for Baked Fish 

One pint of hot water, one-half cup of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of pepper, two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice, a few grains of cayenne and two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped olives or pickles. 

Remoulade Dressing 

Mash the hard boiled yolks of three eggs until 
perfectly smooth, then add a raw yolk, and work with 
a spoon; add half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of 
cayenne and a gill of oil drop by drop, stirring rapidly ; 
then add a tablespoonf ul of vinegar gradually, mix well 
and it is ready for use. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, two of 
cider vinegar, one cupful of cream, yolk of one egg, 
salt to taste, one ounce of butter. Cover the horse- 
radish with water and boil it for half an hour. Strain, 
add the vinegar, butter and salt, stirring until mixed. 
Beat the egg and cream together and add just before 
serving. Very nice with raw oysters, or cold meat. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 181 

Bearnaise Sauce 

Yolks of four eggs, dash of cayenne pepper, four 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, four tablespoonfuls of hot water, one of vinegar. 
Beat the yolks until creamy; add the water and oil; 
stand the bowl in a pan of boiling water and stir until 
the eggs thicken. Take from the fire and add the 
vinegar, salt and pepper; mix well and stand away to 
cool. 

French Dressing 

Put half a teaspoonful of salt in a salad bowl, with 
half as much pepper, and add gradually three table- 
spoonfuls of oil, mix and drop in by degrees three 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; stir until smooth. 

Salad Dressing 

Beat one egg shghtly, then stir into it one heaping 
teaspoonful of mustard, one-half teaspoonful each of 
salt and sugar, a little black pepper, and one-half tea- 
cupful of vinegar; drop in a lump of butter about the 
size of a hickory nut, and stir over the fire until the 
consistency of custard. (When cold, it is nice on to- 
matoes, lettuce, cold meat or any kind of salad.) 

Mayonnaise Dressing, No. 1 

Fill a bowl with ice water, and let stand ten min- 
utes, empty it, and break in the yolks of two raw^ 
eggs, beat until creamy, add a teaspoonful of salt, half 
as much pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil, beat until 
thick, and add gradually a half pint of oil, thin with 
two tablespoonfuls of sharp vinegar, pouring a few 
drops at a time. The beating should be done regularly 
from right to left, and the dressing should be rich 
cream color when done. 



182 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Mayonnaise Dressing, No. 2 

One heaping tablespoonful of mustard, one of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt. Mix this into a smooth paste 
with vinegar ; then add two well beaten eggs, two tea- 
cupfuls of vinegar and a heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Cook in a double boiler until thick ; set aside, and 
when cold, bottle. This will keep for several weeks 
in summer, and longer in winter. 

Mayonnaise Dressing, No. 3 

One pint of olive oil (or cooking oil), yolk of one 
eggy one lemon. Salt, red pepper, and a pinch of 
mustard, if desirfed. Beat yolk of egg, add the oil, 
one or two drops at the time, then add the lemon juice, 
salt and pepper ; season to suit the taste. 

Mayonnaise, No. 4 

8 tablespoonfuls vinegar % teaspoonful pepper 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar V2 teaspoonful mustard 

3 eggs (yolks) 1 ball butter 

V2 teaspoonful salt V2 pt. cream (beaten) 

Boil the vinegar; add eggs which have been beaten 
up with seasonings. When it thickens, put in butter 
and set aside to cool. Stir in whipped cream just be- 
fore serving. ^; , 

Mayonnaise, No. 5 

Mix a teaspoonful of dry mustard, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar and a pinch 
of red pepper with a teaspoonful of lemon juice or 
vinegar; add to this the yolk of an egg and beat well; 
add a cupful of olive oil (a few drops at a time) until 
a third is stirred in, then put in faster. Egg and olive 
oil must be ice-cold. 

The quantity may be increased and color decreased 
by the addition of very stiff whipped cream or the 
white of an egg beaten stiff. If mayonnaise is in- 
tended for a fruit salad, omit the mustard. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 183 

Cooked Mayonnaise 

Take a half teaspoonful of mustard, half teaspoon- 
ful of olive oil and mix to a paste. Add yolks of two 
eggs, one-quarter cupful of vinegar or lemon juice 
and boil in double boiler. Stir constantly until mixture 
is thick. Keep in cool place until ready to serve. 
Omit mustard if mayonnaise is to be used with a fruit 

col QQ 

Mayonnaise for Fruit Salad 

Make mayonnaise according to recipe for Mayon- 
naise No. 1, using lemon juice. Whip in an equal 
amount of thick cream. 

Congealed Mayonnaise 

To one cupful of well seasoned mayonnaise add one 
cupful of stiffly whipped cream and two tablespoonf uls 
of gelatine dissolved in as small quantity of water as 
possible. Add two cucumbers chopped fine, one table- 
spoonful of finely chopped onion, two tablespoonfuls 
of finely chopped celery. Allow to stand on ice several 
hours to congeal, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Sauce Robert 

Sauce Robert is the time honored sauce to serve 
with pork chops. A simple rule for this calls for 
half an onion, sliced and fried with a teaspoonful of 
butter till brown. Add a teaspoonful of sugar, sprin- 
kling it in. This is to glaze the onions. Add half a 
wineglass of white wine and cook for six minutes. 
Then add a pint of sauce Espagnole or brown gravy. 
Let the mixture boil for about fifteen or twenty 
minutes, slowly. Then add a teaspoonful of English 
mustard, wet with a little cold stock. 

Sauce Tartare 

Half a pint of mayonnaise, three olives, six cucum^ 
ber pickles, one small onion or leek chopped fine; add 
this to the dressing with half a teacupful of cider 
vinegar; mix well. 



184 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sauce for Salads, Tomatoes and Cold Meats 

Beat well four eggs, leaving out the whites. Mix 
together one tablespoonful of mustard, one of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper and a cupful of vinegar. Turn into a pan and 
set the pan in boiling water. Cook until the consist- 
ency of thick cream. This, well bottled, will keep in a 
cool place for some time. 

A Northern Recipe for Sauce for Toast and Broiled 

Birds 

Mix equal parts of curry powder, powdered truffles, 
bread crumbs and browned flour, the yolk of one hard 
boiled egg, grated rind of one-half lemon, one table- 
spoonful of Chili sauce, a little butter and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. Season with salt, cayenne pepper 
and nutmeg to taste. Stir over a slow fire until quite 
brown and thick. 

Curry Powder 

An ounce of ginger, one of black pepper, one of 
mustard, one of allspice, half an ounce of cardamon 
seed and cummin. Three ounces each of coriander 
seed and turmeric. Pound well, sift and put in bottles, 
being sure to have them well corked. Use one table- 
spoonful to season one pound of meat. When using 
curry powder, squeeze a little lemon juice over the 
meat. When making curried rice, do not use lemon. 

Celery Vinegar 

A quart of fresh celery, chopped fine, or a quarter 
of a pound of celery seed; one quart of good apple 
vinegar, sugar and salt; pour it boiling hot over the 
celery, let it cool, cover tightly and set away. In two 
weeks, strain and bottle. 

Roquefort Cheese Dressing 

Break in small pieces, one-fourth pound of Roque- 
fort Cheese, to it add one-half pint of French Dressing. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 185 
Tomato Sauce 

One gallon of ripe tomatoes, strain to get the seed 
out ; one quart of strong vinegar, three tablespoon! 
of ground mustard, three of salt, three of black pep- 
per, three of red pepper, and one of ground ginger. 
Boil until thick enough to bottle. 

Tartar Sauce 

Add to one-half pint oil mayonnaise dressing, one- 
half teaspoonful mustard, one dill pickle chopped fine, 
one small chopped onion, and three chopped olives. 

Sauce for Fish 

Four small onions, one tablespoonful pistachio nuts, 
one tablespoonful blanched almonds, two Irish pota^ 
toes (boiled), one-half cup of olive oil, one-half cup of 
vinegar. Chop fine and mix well, and season with 
pepper and salt. 

French Salad Dressing 

One teacupful of olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one onion, one teaspoonful salt, paprika and a 
little Worcestershire sauce. To salt and paprika, add 
the Worcestershire Sauce, then the oil, then the vine- 
gar. Grate onion and beat in the juice. 

Italian Salad Dressing 

Rub a bowl with garlic, add one teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful tobasco sauce, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful paprika, one teaspoonful tomato catsup. 

Pour over this one-half teacupful of olive oil, and 
mix in last one tablespoonful of good vinegar. 

Vinagrette Dressing 

Make a French dressing of three measures of olive 
oil and one measure of vinegar, beat until creamy. 
Season with salt and red pepper. Then add an equal 
quantity of finely chopped pickles. 



186 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Caramel Sauce 

Take one and a half cupfuls of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one and a half cupfuls of water and 
one and a half tablespoonfuls of butter. Caramelize 
half the sugar, add boiling water. Mix the flour and 
remaining sugar and add to caramel mixture. Add 
butter. Stir constantly while cooking. 

Tomato Sauce 

1 can tomatoes % teaspoonful black pepper 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar V^ teaspoonful cloves 

1 tablespoonful sugar V^, teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 teaspoonful salt Little onion if liked 

1/4 teaspoonful cayenne 

Indian Dressing 

To one cupful of mayonnaise, well seasoned, add two 
tablespoonfuls of India Relish, and one tablespoonful 
of Chili sauce and a teaspoonful of finely chopped onion. 

Chili Sauce 

20 tomatoes 1 tablespoonful mustard seed 

6 onions 1 tablespoonful celery seed 

6 green peppers 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 

1 cupful vinegar V2 teaspoonful cloves 

1 cupful sugar (ground) 

1 tablespoonful salt V2 teaspoonful allspice 

Peel and boil the tomatoes three-quarters of an 
hour. Add all but the ground mustard seed. Boil two 
and a half hours. Add mustard seed half hour before 
taking up. 

French Dressing 

Put into a shallow bowl one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, half cupful of olive oil. Add very slowly, stirring 
constantly, a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. 
Mix just before serving. A very small ainount of 
paprika may be added if desired, or a dash of Worces- 
tershire sauce. A slight and almost indiscernible fla- 
vor may be added by rubbing the bowl with a piece 
of cut onion or garlic just before mixing the dressing. 
A decided taste may be acquired by the addition of 
a few drops of onion juice. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 187 
Russian Dressing 

Put the yolk of one egg in cold bowl and beat with 
a silver fork until light, then add one cupful olive oil, 
drop by drop at first, and as the mixture thickens, 
add oil more rapidly. Mix one teaspoonful mustard, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of 
white or a pinch of red pepper, and one teaspoonful of 
vinegar or lemon juice. Stir until smooth, then add to 
egg and oil. If too thick, add vinegar or lemon juice. 
Add last two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup or Chili 
sauce. One tablespoonful of finely cut chives adds to 
this dressing. 

Italian Dressing 

Mix together one teaspoonful of tomato catsup, a 
half teaspoonful of paprika, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
a pinch of mustard, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil,, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice, a half 
teaspoonful of onion juice. Another way to mix is to 
put ingredients in a cruet (half filled) and shake until 
they mix. 

Ho<llandaise Dressing 

Put four tablespoonfuls of olive oil in a double 
boiler, add the beaten yolks of four eggs and beat well 
together; then add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-tenth 
teaspoonful cayenne pepper ; then add slowly one cupful 
of hot water, stirring constantly until it thickens, but 
do not boil. Remove from the fire and continue to 
stir for a few minutes. It should be creamy and con- 
sistent. 

Sauce Tartare 

To a cupful of Mayonnaise No. 5, add one table- 
spoonful of capers, three chopped olives and two 
chopped gherkins or small pickles and a half teaspoon- 
ful of finely-chopped green herbs, if desired. 



188 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Anchovy Sauce 

Work a teaspoonful of anchovy paste with two tea- 
spoonfuls of olive oil until very smooth ; then work in, 
a little at at a time, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
then add a tablespoonful of lemon or lime juice, a pinch 
■of salt, a pinch of paprika and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley or chives. As the anchovy paste is salted, one 
must taste the sauce to ascertain how much salt to use. 

This sauce may be served with all forms of fish 
dishes, either hot or cold. 

Cucumber Sauce, No. 1 

Grate two good sized cucumbers, and allow all the 
water to drain away. Add one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of cayenne, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and 
serve at once. 

Cucumber Sauce, No. 2 

Peel two cucumbers, cut in four lengthwise; if 
overgrown, trim off the seeds, cut in slices ; there 
should be one pint of this and one pint of sliced onion ; 
blanch, salt and cayenne to taste; drain and simmer 
until tender in one pint of good gravy and pour over 
broiled steak when ready to serve; or pour the raw 
vegetables over a pan-broiled steak as soon as browned 
and simmered. 

Horseradish Butter 

Pound in a mortar one teaspoonful of grated 
horseradish with one tablespoonful of butter. Season 
with one-third tablespoonful of red pepper. Rub 
through a fine sieve and keep in a cold place. When 
this butter is added to other sauces it should not boil'. 

Black Butter 

Cook one-fourth cupful of butter in the frying pan 
until it becomes brown ; add 6 parsley leaves, heat again 
for one minute, then throw in one-half teaspoonful of 
vinegar. Pour it into a sauce bowl and serve. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 189> 

Mint Sauce 

4 tablespoonfuls minced V2 teaspoonful soft butters 

mint leaves 6 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

1 tablespoonful sugar 

Place mint in small covered bowl or cup and cover 

with sugar; let it stand one hour. Add salt to hot 

vinegar and pour over the mint ; let this infuse for ten 

minutes before serving. 

Sauce a la Tortue 

3 cupfuls brown consomme 1 bay leaf 
V2 can mushrooms 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

V2 can tomatoes V2 teaspoonful salt 

1 truffle Few grains red pepper 

^ cupful sherry 

Combine the consomme, the liquor from the mush- 
rooms, tomatoes and seasonings. Cook these together 
and strain. Brown the butter, add the flour and 
brown together; add liquid mixture slowly, then the 
mushrooms and truffles cut fine. Cook together for 
five minutes. Add sherry and serve. 



SALADS 

When prettily garnished with fresh green leaves, 
blossoms, slices of lemon and cold boiled eggs, etc., 
salads are very much more attractive and appetizing. 

Never add the dressing to a vegetable salad until 
just before serving, and stir as little as possible, that 
the freshness may be retained. 

The vegetables prepared for salads are celery, 
tomatoes, cauliflower, watercress, lettuce, asparagus^ 
potatoes, cucumbers, cabbage and endives. 

The meats are: Chicken, tongue, turkey, pork 
tenderloin, veal and ham. 

Fish: Lobster, shrimp, oyster, salmon, mackerel, 
sardine and anchovy. 

Vegetable salads are frequently served with roast 
chicken or game. 

Salads are served after the meat or game course, 
and should be accompanied by plain biscuit and cheese. 



190 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Pear Salad 

Cut pears in halves. Fill centers with a paste 
made of cream cheese and English walnuts. Serve 
with mayonnaise. 

Pimento and Pineapple Salad 

One can of pimentoes, two cans of sliced pineapple, 
one head of lettuce. Place pimentoes on slice of pine- 
apple on a plate garnished with the heart of lettuce. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 

Cucumber Jelly 

Use recipe for tomato jelly, and use cucumbers 
cut in blocks instead of tomatoes. Serve with mayon- 
naise. 

Romaine Salad 

Wash romaine carefully in cold water ; place leaves 
on a plate and serve with French dressing. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 

Cut tomatoes in slices, and place on plate with the 
heart of lettuce. Serve with French dressing, or 
Roquefort Cheese dressing. 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Carefully remove the meat from the grape fruit, 
not leaving any skin. Place on lettuce leaves and 
serve with either French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Fruit Salad 

Two grape fruits, four oranges, one can of pineap- 
ple. Mince the grape fruit, oranges and pineapple, and 
mix with French dressing. Place on lettuce leaves 
and serve very cold. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Peel large ripe tomatoes. Scoop out centers, and 
fill with a mixture made of equal amounts of chopped 
almonds, pineapple cut in small pieces, and tomato. 
Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise No. 1, with cream 
for mayonnaise. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 191 

Pear Helene 

In a goblet place a layer of cake; add vanilla ice 
cream until the glass is two-thirds full. Place in the 
center a brandied or preserved pear (stem up), and 
fill around the sides with whipped cream. Serve with 
hot chocolate sauce. 

Tomato Aspic 

One can tomatoes, one-half box gelatin, one onion, 
one stalk celery (may be omitted), two lemons, two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful vinegar, salt 
and red pepper. Mince the celery and onions and boil 
with tomatoes in one teacupful of water for ten min- 
utes, and sugar, vinegar, salt, pepper and juice of 
lemons, then strain and pour over the gelatin that has 
been soaking for ten minutes in enough cold water to 
cover it. Then mold and set in refrigerator to jelly. 
When stiff, serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise. 

Grape Fruit JeUy 

Four grape fruits, one box gelatin, two lemons, two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, one pint boiling water. 

Soak gelatine for fifteen minutes in one teacupful 
of cold water, then pour the boiling water, the lemons, 
squeezed, then stir in the sugar, then strain and pour 
over the grape fruit pulp. Pour in a mold, and when 
jellied, serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Tongue Jelly 

Make a plain lemon jelly leaving out the sugar, 
and replacing it with salt and pepper. While hot, pour 
enough in a mold to cover two inches. Cool, and when 
stiff enough not to run, add a layer of sliced boiled 
tongue and small onion pickles. Over this pour the 
remainder of the gelatin, being careful that it does not 
melt the bottom layer so as to ruin the mold. Chill 
and serve with lettuce and mayonnaise. 



192 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Lettuce Salad, No. 1 

Separate and let stand in ice water one hour. Rub 
the salad bowl with onion; carefully wash and dry 
the lettuce leaves ; place in bowl and bring to the table. 
Lettuce rapidly absorbs the flavor of the onion, and 
it becomes a pleasing but not overpowering ingredient 
of the dressing. 

To make dressing for eight persons, measure six 
salad spoonfuls of oil, or melted butter; pour on the 
lettuce as measured, tossing lightly; then dissolve in 
two spoonfuls of vinegar, two saltspoonfuls of salt, 
pour over the leaves, and after a thorough tossing, 
serve. The secret of fresh dressing is that given the 
proper proportion, each leaf should be thoroughly 
moistened. 

Lettuce Salad, No. 2 

If preferred, proceed as directed above, substituting 
a mayonnaise for the French dressing. 

Artichoke Salad 

Wash thoroughly and boil artichokes until tender. 
When cold place each on plate garnished with lettuce 
and serve with mayonnaise. 

Cucumber Salad 

Put in cold water for an hour, two or three 
cucumbers; peel thick, slice thin, salt and pepper to 
taste ; add a little onion if liked, and serve with vinegar 
at table. 

Mustard Salad 

Cut the young, green heads and boil and serve just 
as one does young turnips or cabbage. 

Spinach Salad 

Take a quart of young tender spinach leaves, put in 
a salad bowl with spring onions cut up fine and a sprig 
of mint. Pour over plain salad dressing and garnish 
with hard boiled eggs. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 193 

Endive Salad 

Select the crisp, center leaves and proceed as di- 
rected for lettuce salad. 

Cress Salad 

Take equal parts of cress and cut up celery stalks, 
put in a salad bowl, pour over French dressing and 
serve very cold. Or pick over and wash a pack of 
cress, dry, sprinkle with salad herb, pour over plain 
salad dressing and serve. 

Cold Slaw, or Cabbage Salad 

Take a quarter of a medium sized head of cabbage 
and shred fine; put in a salad bowl; chop three stalks 
of celery and one small onion, if liked, and add ; sprin- 
kle with salt and cayenne, pour over a half pint of 
mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with sprigs of parsley 
and two hard boiled eggs. Serve with cheese. 

Cauliflower Salad 

Boil a head of cauliflower, throw in cold water until 
wanted; then tear apart, dry, put in a salad bowl, 
pour over a teacupful of mayonnaise, garnish with 
lettuce leaves and rings of hard boiled eggs. Serve 
immediately. 

Asparagus Salad 

Cut off a quart of asparagus tops and boil in salt 
water until tender; drain, throw in cold water and 
let stand half an hour; drain again, wipe dry, put in 
a salad bowl and pour over French dressing. 

Irish Potato Salad 

Six potatoes boiled in salt water until done; let 
cool. Take one blade of celery, half a teacupful of 
mixed pickle, four hard boiled eggs; chop fine. Cut 
the potatoes in small blocks; salt and pepper each in- 
gredient separately ; then mix and pour over the salad 
one teacupful of Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2. Garnish 
with celery. 



194 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Tomato Salad 

Take three large, ripe tomatoes and set on ice to 
cool; slice, put in a salad bowl, chop a slice of onion 
fine and sprinkle over, pour over a teacupful of plain 
salad dressing and serve very cold. 

Tomatoes Stuffed With Salad 

Select large, well shaped, ripe tomatoes ; cut a slice 
from the top and remove the meat. Have prepared a 
salad of some kind — chicken, lobster, crab or shrimp. 
Fill each tomato carefully with the salad; put on the 
top and serve on a lettuce leaf; or garnish with white 
celery leaves. 

The salad dressing may be reserved until the toma- 
toes are nearly filled with the meat, then poured in on 
the meat, filling to the top, leaving off the caps. Gar- 
nish as directed, or put in the oven, bake fifteen min- 
utes and serve, garnished with parsley. 

Tongue Salad 

Open a cup of tongue ; scrape the meat with a knife, 
discarding all fat and drippings. Wipe with a towel, 
slice thin and cut into blocks. Cut fine two blades of 
celery (the outside pieces are best for this), two cu- 
cumber and one onion pickle, three hard boiled eggs 
and two olives, then mix with the tongue and pour 
over all one teacupful of Mayonnaise No. 2, mixing it 
in thoroughly. 

Pork Salad 

Sprinkle a half teaspoonful of salt over one and 
one-half pounds of pork tenderloin. Place the meat in 
a vessel and cover with boiling water. Boil steadily 
until perfectly tender. When cold, shave with a sharp 
knife and cut into inch squares. Have ready three 
hard boiled eggs. Place in a salad dish a layer of meat 
and one of eggs until all is used ; then pour over it one 
teacupful of mayonnaise and toss lightly with a fork. 
Delicious. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 195 
Chicken Salad, No. 1 

Boil one grown fowl in enough water to cover; 
remoVe the meat when it begins to fall from the bones ; 
allow it to cool, then chop fine. Mix with an equal 
quantity of finely chopped white cabbage. Dressing: 
One tablespoonful of mustard, the same of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of strong 
black pepper, one tablespoonful of butter, one tumbler- 
ful of vinegar, and three eggs. Mix the mustard, salt, 
sugar and pepper together; then make into a smooth 
paste, with a small quantity of the vinegar ; now add 
the rest of the vinegar, and beat in the butter. Cook 
in a double boiler until it thickens to the consistency 
of cream. Mix thoroughly with the chicken, etc., and 
serve. 

Chicken Salad, No. 2 

Put one large hen on to cook in boiling salted water ; 
when tender allow it to cool, then cut into blocks, 
rejecting the skin and gristle; chip fine four medium 
size heads of celery; grate nine large ohves; blanch 
half a pound of almonds, and grind through a meat 
grinder, or chop fine. Have ready a heaping spoonful 
of Higdon pickles and two teacupfuls of rather thick 
cream mayonnaise, and half a teacupful of French 
dressing. 

Two hours before serving, mix the chicken, celery 
and almonds, pour over them the salad dressing, and 
set in the refrigerator. Just before serving, add the 
Higdon and olives, mixing thoroughly and then pour 
over the mayonnaise; toss lightly with a fork, and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

Chicken Salad, No. 3 

For six or eight persons, carefully prepare one 
grown fowl; boil until tender; remove the meat care- 
fully from the bones; chip or shred. Chip fine one 
head of celery, three medium sized cucumber pickles, 



196 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

four or six hard boiled eg-gs, and add to the chicken. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour over this 
a dressing made as follows: One heaping teaspoonful 
of mustard, one of sugar, one of butter, a teacupful 
of vinegar and one egg. Mix mustard and sugar into 
a smooth paste with a small quantity of the vinegar; 
then stir in slowly the rest of the vinegar ; beat in the 
butter, then the beaten egg. Cook in a bucket over 
the kettle ; boil until it begins to thicken, stirring con- 
stantly. When cool, pour over the salad and mix well. 
If preferred, substitute white cabbage for the celery. 

Beef Salad 

Boil one pound of young, tender beef in enough 
boiling water, slightly salted, to cover. When per- 
fectly tender, remove from the water and let cool. 
Chip, shred or grind, as desired. Have ready three 
hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, two or three blades 
of celery and two cucumber pickles chopped fine. Mix 
these with the meat; season to taste with salt and 
pepper and last pour over it a teacupful of mayonnaise, 
mixing lightly with a fork. 

Beef Salad With Potatoes 

Prepare one pound of beef, as directed in the pre- 
ceding recipe. When the beef is chipped, have ready 
three or four cold boiled Irish potatoes, cut in small 
blocks, one or two hard boiled eggs cut fine, a little 
celery salt if convenient, and a teacupful of mustard 
cabbage chow-chow (sweet) with some of the vinegar. 
Mix the meat, potatoes and eggs together and season 
to taste with salt and pepper ; add the celery salt, then 
mix in the chow-^chow thoroughly and serve. A table- 
spoonful of salad oil or melted butter may be added, 
if liked, when the salt is stirred in. 

Grapefruit Salad 

Mix grapefruit pulp with broken English walnuts 
or pecans. Mix with mayonnaise made without mus- 
tard, fill the grapefruit shells, and serve on lettuce. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 197 

Fruit Salad 

V2 lb almonds 3 bananas 

4 oranges V2 cup French cherries 

1 can pineapple 1 cupful powdered sugar 

Blanch the almonds and grate or chop very fine; 
pare and slice the oranges; cut pineapple into small 
dice ; slice the bananas. Alternate the layers of fruit 
with layers of sugar. Reserve the almonds for the 
top layer. Garnish with straw^berries or other small, 
bright fruits ; then add the following dressing and chill : 

Sauce 

^ cupful lemon juice 1 cupful granulated sugar 

^4 cupful pineapple juice Cook down to a syrup 

Grated cocoanut can be used instead of almonds; 
peaches and pears instead of bananas. 

Cream Cheese Salad 

Arrange lettuce leaves on a plate; in the center heap 
English walnuts; around these press cream cheese 
through a rice potato masher, and over all pour a 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Apple and Cheese Salad 

Mix chopped pecans with twice their quantity of 
cream cheese, crumbled fine. Soften with a little heavy 
cream. Season to taste, and make into balls. Slice 
into rings large red apples, remove the cores, and place 
a ball of cheese in each ring. Serve with French dress- 
ing or mayonnaise. 

Frozen Salad 

lake one can of pineapple, the meat of two oranges 
and one banana. Cut in halves half pound of malaga 
or tokay grapes, and half a pound of candied cherries. 
Mix and serve with the following dressing: The juice 
of the pineapple, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
water, tablespoonful of corn starch, one cupful of wal- 
nuts, cut fine. Boil the water, sugar and pineapple 
juice and thicken with starch. When cold mix in nuts, 
pour over salad and serve on a lettuce leaf, or freeze 
and serve. 



198 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Devonshire Salad 

Choose soft, yet firm curd of cottage cheese, cut 
in inch dice, season with salt, pepper and cayenne and 
serve on lettuce with Mayonnaise. Garnish with a 
nasturtium. The curd may be mixed with cream until 
soft enough to form into small balls. Season with salt 
and cayenne, roll in finely chopped nuts and serve on 
crisp lettuce leaves with French or Cream Mayonnaise. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

To one can of condensed tomato soup add one can 
of hot water. Soften one-half package or two table- 
spoonfuls of gelatin in half cupful of cold water. Bring 
the soup to the boiling point, season with salt, pepper 
and sugar ; remove from the fire ; add the softened gela- 
tin and stir until this is dissolved. Pour into individual 
moulds which have been moistened with cold water. 
When the jelly is cold, remove from the moulds and 
serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. A delicious 
salad for a Sunday night supper. 

Pineapple Salad 

Mix shredded pineapple with finely-cut celery and 
broken English walnuts. Serve on lettuce with may- 
onnaise made without mustard and whitened with 
whipped cream. 

Sweetbread Salad 

Clean and parboil two pairs of sweetbreads, throw 
into cold water for half an hour. Remove the fat and 
skin and cover with fresh boiling water; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and simmer gently twenty minutes. 
When done, stand away to cool. When cool, cut into 
thin slices. Wash and dry the tender leaves^ from one 
head of lettuce. Rub a dish with onion and make in 
it a half pint of mayonnaise. Place a thin slice of 
onion in the center of your salad dish, arrange the 
lettuce leaves around it ; mix the sweet breads carefully 
with the mayonnaise; and put in the center of the dish. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 199 

Pear Salad 

Take halves of pears. Scoop out small space ; save 
portion taken out; combine with English walnuts and 
portions of orange, fill hollow and garnish with Maras- 
chino Cherries. Dress with juice of one orange and a 
tablespoonful of Maraschino. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

Egg Salad 

'Cut three large blades of celery into pieces, and 
put into a salad bowl. Chop the whites of five hard 
boiled eggs and add to the celery, with a little salt 
and pepper ; slice the yolks of the eggs in thin rounds, 
lay over the salad, pour over a plain dressing and 
garnish with celery leaves. 

Raw Oyster Salad 

One quart of oysters, one head of celery, one head 
of lettuce. Cut the oysters and celery in small pieces, 
cover with a mayonnaise dressing, and garnish with 
lettuce. 

Cooked Oyster Salad 

Boil two dozen oysters in their own liquor for five 
minutes, drain and stand on ice until very cold. Ar- 
range crisp lettuce leaves in a salad bowl, put the 
oysters on them, pour over a teacupful of mayonnaise 
dressing, and serve very cold. 

Salmon Salad, No. 1 

Free the contents of a can of salmon from the skin 
and bone, and arrange them on a bed of lettuce leaves ; 
salt and pepper. Pour over the salmon a half cupful 
of lemon juice and serve very cold. 

Salmon Salad, No. 2 

Take two pounds of cold salmon, remove the skin 
and bone, and put into a bowl with a little salt, cayenne, 
vinegar, the juice of a lemon, and a tablespoonful of 
oil. Let stand on ice one hour. Put crisp lettuce 
leaves in a salad bowl, add the salmon, pour over a 
mayonnaise dressing, garnish with olives, and serve 
very cold. Canned salmon may be used. 



200 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sardine Salad 

Wash the oil from a dozen sardines; remove the 
skin and bone. Put a head of crisp lettuce leaves in a 
salad bowl, chop up two hard boiled eggs, add the 
sardines to the lettuce, sprinkle with the egg, and 
pour over a plain salad dressing. 

Anchovy Salad 

Wash, skin and bone two anchovies, put in water 
to soak half an hour, drain, and dry them; then pro- 
ceed as for sardine salad. 

Sardines in Pepper 

Open and separate from the bones two boxes of 
sardines; boil hard three eggs, and when cold chop 
rather fine. Boil and cream six medium sized Irish 
potatoes, using one teacupful of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of butter, and two raw eggs. Have ready 
twelve sweet bell peppers, capped, and seed removed. 
Mix sardines, eggs and potatoes, and fill the peppers. 
Fasten on the tops with toothpicks, place in a hot 
oven and cook for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve on 
a tea plate as an entree, garnishing with nasturtium 
leaves and flowers. 

Shrimp Salad 

Line a dish with crisp lettuce leaves. Mix together 
one plate of prepared shrimps (boiled and picked), two 
stalks of celery, pinch of salt. Place among the let- 
tuce leaves. Over this pour a mayonnaise dressing. 
Cut white of egg into rings, place an olive in each, and 
arrange about the salad. 

Lobster Salad 

Cut the cold boiled meat of a lobster into small 
pieces. Wash two heads of lettuce and shake dry. 
Make a Mayonnise No. 2 ; put the meat in a salad bowl, 
separate the lettuce and small radishes, or olives. 
Squeeze over all a lemon and serve. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 201 

Lettuce and Egg Salad 

For twelve persons ; boil eighteen eggs until hard. 
Allow them to cool, then peel, carefully cut in half 
and remove the yolks. Rub these to a smooth paste 
with mayonnise, and season to taste, with salt and 
cayenne, or white pepper; pit and chop fine four olives; 
chop fine one small sweet pickle. Mix these with the 
yolks, stuff the whites with the mixture and set on 
ice until ready to serve. 

Wash and separate three or four heads of nice let- 
tuce. There should bo enough of this to have twelve 
perfect leaves the size of a bread and butter plate, and 
twelve center leaves shaped like small cups. 

Have ready on ice a pint of cream mayonnaise. 
When ready to serve, place on each salad plate, knife 
slice the eggs, and place on the lettuce in a ring, one 
piece overlapping another. In the center of this ring 
place one of the cup-shaped leaves, and just as the 
plate is sent to the table fill the cup with the cream 
mayonnaise. 

Clam, or Crab Salad 

Prepare as one does lobster salad. 

Combination Salads 

Lettuce in itself makes a beautiful and refreshing 
salad and combines well with everything. Combina- 
tions of lettuce and tomatoes, lettuce and cucumbers, 
lettuce and hard-boiled egg, lettuce and potato, lettuce 
with cold cubed meats, shrimp, crab-meat or of lobster, 
with asparagus tips, with string beans, with green 
peas, with cold beets, with cauliflower; in fact, with 
practically any cold meat, fish or vegetable that can 
be served as a salad. Not only does lettuce combine 
well with all the foregoing, but it serves well with all 
forms of salad dressings— Mayonnaise— French Dress- 
ing, Russian Dressing, Roquefort Dressing and Italian 
Dressing. 



202 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Other Combinations for Salads 

Lettuce, water cress and sliced hard-cooked eggs 
with or without a garnish of pimentoes, green peppers, 
or sliced beets. 

Two-thirds part of flaked, canned salmon, tuna fish, 
tongue, or lamb with one-third part of diced celery, a 
few peas, a little onion, and any salad green. 

Two- thirds part of flaked, canned salmon, tuna fish, 
or diced shrimps with one-third part of shredded cab- 
bage, diced celery, a few sliced olives and cress or let- 
tuce. 

Two-thirds part diced, warm potatoes with a little 
onion juice and minced parsley, put together with 
dressing to blend. When chilled, add one-third part of 
diced celery or the firm portion of cucumbers, diced, 
with or without a few chopped, toasted nut-meats, a 
little minced ham or mixed, cooked vegetables, or 
three sliced, hard-cooked eggs. Garnish with any salad 
green. 

Equal parts of diced, canned pineapple, stoned, 
canned or fresh cherries, fresh halved strawberries, or 
diced apple with or without a little shredded grape- 
fruit or orange and some diced celery. Garnish with 
lettuce. If desired, this combination of fruit may be 
made into a jellied salad by stirring it into one and a 
half cupfuls of tart lemon jelly, when the latter is just 
about to congeal. 

Mackerel Salad 

Take one pound of cold boiled fresh or canned 
mackerel and pick into pieces. Add half as much 
chopped celery. Make a dressing as for sardine salad. 



EGGS 

Egg au Gratin 

Use recipe for Potatoes au Gratin, substituting hard 
boiled eggs, diced, for potatoes. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 203 

Poached Eggs 

Put in a saucepan three pints of water, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, two pinches of salt. When the 
water boils, break the eggs into it and let them poach 
two or three minutes. Lift out with skimmer and 
serve on toast. 

Scrambled Eggs, No. 1 

Into a granite pan put a teacupf ul of cream ; when 
it is hot pour in a dozen eggs previously broken into a 
dish. Stir constantly until done, having the whites 
and yolks thoroughly and evenly incorporated with 
each other. Cook slowly, and when the mixture is 
the consistency of thick butter, turn into a hot cov- 
ered dish. Too long cooking toughens the scramble. 
Sprinkle a little salt over and serve. 

Scrambled Eggs, No. 2 

Break into a hot frying pan six or eight eggs ; stir 
until done (about two minutes) and serve hot with 
pepper and salt to taste. 

Scrambled Eggs with Salmon 
Turn out a can of salmon ; free from bones. Break 
six eggs and beat one minute, then add the salmon, 
pepper and salt. Pour into a hot, slightly greased 
stewpan, and stir until the eggs begin to thicken. 

Soft Boiled Eggs 

To one egg, pour one-half pint of boiling water. 
Let stand for four minutes, then pour off water. Pour 
another one-half pint of boiling water over the egg 
and when it has stood three minutes, you will find the 
egg cooked with an even consistency. 

Soft Boiled Eggs for Invalids 

Boil one pint of water, and while boiling place in it 
two eggs; remove from the fire and let stand three 
minutes. The eggs will be thoroughly hot, but no part 
of them will be hard. 



204 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Baked Eggs, No. 1 

Line a baking dish with finely minced cold fowl or 
veal, about two inches deep; sprinkle over with bread 
crumbs about an inch deep. Over these strew many 
bits of butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
pour over it a teacupf ul of cold gravy. Break carefully 
into the dish enough eggs to cover the crumbs, and 
set in the oven to make. Serve as soon as cooked. 

[ Baked Eggs, No. 2 

Break the eggs into patty pans, one egg in each 
ring; dust salt and pepper over them. Place in a hot 
oven and let them brown slightly. 

Escalloped Eggs, No. 1 
Moisten a teacupful of stale bread crumbs with 
sweet milk. Put a layer in the bottom of a buttered 
dish. Slice hard boiled eggs, and lay over with butter, 
pepper and salt. Continue until the dish is full. Sift 
grated crumbs over the top, spread with bits of butter, 
and set in the stove until brown. 

Escalloped Eggs, No. 2 
Fill the e^gg dish with the whites beaten, make a 
hollow in the center, and put in the unbeaten yolk; 
scatter over the top a little salt and pepper, and lay a 
small piece of butter on the yolk. Bake about two 
minutes. Serve on buttered toast. 

Hot Milk for Invalids 

Toast snowflake crackers until a golden brown, 
then pour over them hot milk; let stand a few min- 
utes, then strain; add a little salt and serve. 

Roasted Eggs 

Roll each egg in four layers of wet paper, brown, 
or newspaper; put down in the hot ashes and cover 
well; let stay until the outer layer is well scorched; 
let cool until it may be handled ; then remove the paper. 
This is a pastime children delight in. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 205 

Eggs, Stuff ed and Fried 

Divide hard boiled eggs, cutting them the long 
way; mash the yolks with equal quantity of butter 
and bread crumbs, soaked in milk. Press milk from 
bread, add salt, pepper and nutmeg; rub all well to- 
gether, then mix with them a raw eggy fill the hollowed 
whites with this, put together, dip each egg in beaten 
eggs, then in bread crumbs and fry in hot boiling lard. 
Serve plain or with tomato sauce, or cream sauce. 
Eggs Baked in Irish Potatoes 
Peel half dozen large potatoes and bake until thor- 
oughly done, then cut in halves, take out enough of the 
potato to pour a raw egg in each half, season with 
cayenne and sal>^; dust them over with bread crumbs, 
place a small piece of butter on each and bake until 
the eggs are set. Serve hot. A little grated cheese, 
and a tablespoonful of sweet milk in the potato before 
the egg is broken in is nice for those who like the 
flavor of cheese. Serve with water cress or the small 
part of celery. Mash the potato taken out, season to 
taste; make in round balls, roll in egg, then in cracker 
cruiVibs, and fry a nice brown. 

Egg on Toast 
Take nicely toasted bread, spread with anchovy 
paste — ^just a little— then with a light layer of grated 
ham, seasoned with cayenne, and moistened with stock. 
Beat the whites of whatever number of eggs you wish 
to use until very stiff, cover each piece of toast with 
it, then in the middle of each piece, carefully place a 
yolk. Bake just a light brown and serve while hot. 

Deviled Eggs 
Grate a fourth of a pound of cheese fine ; butter a 
shallow baking dish, spread the cheese in the bottom 
with bits of butter; sprinkle with salt and cayenne. 
Break six eggs into a plate and slip on top of dish ; mix 
a teaspoonful of French mustard with half a cup of 
cream and pour over. Place in a hot oven for ten 
minutes and serve hot. 



206 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Pickled Eggs 

Boil a dozen eggs fifteen minutes. Take off the 
shells and stick with cloves. Scald a pint of vinegar. 
Mix half a teaspoonful of ground mustard, a little salt, 
black pepper, cayenne and ground allspice in cold vine- 
gar; add to the boiling vinegar and stir over the fire 
two minutes. Put the eggs in a jar, pour the boiling 
vinegar over, cover and let stand a week before using. 

Baked Eggs with Cheese 

Vz lb American cheese 1-3 cupful cream 

1 tablespoonful butter 6 eggs 

1 teaspoonful mustard Pinch of cayenne pepper 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Slice the cheese and spread in a shallow dish. Put 
the butter on the cheese in small pieces. Mix together 
the mustard, salt, cayenne pepper, and cream. Pour 
half of this mixture over the cheese and butter. Beat 
the eggs a little, pour in dish, and over them pour re- 
mainder of cream. Put one tablespoonful of butter 
in small pieces over the top of the eggs. Bake fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

Hard-Boiled Eggs 

Cook for forty minutes below the boiling point; 
when done plunge into cold water to prevent the yolk 
from growing dark. Roll on the table gently till the 
shell is well crushed and it can be peeled off without 
marring the egg, 

Escalloped Eggs 
Break eggs in buttered dish. Do not break yolks. 
Season with salt and pepper. Grate cheese over top. 
Bake until the egg settles. 

Eggnog 

One egg, half teacupful sweet milk, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and vanilla to taste. Beat the sugar with 
the yolks until light. Beat the whites and stir in 
fast. 

In case of sickness, one tablespoonful of brandy or 
whiskey may be substituted for the vanilla. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 207 

Curried Eggs 

6 hard boiled eggs V2 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup curry sauce */4 teaspoonful pepper 

Cut the eggs in halves, slice enough of the white 

off the end of each to make them stand upright. 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve on a hot platter 

with the sauce poured around them. 



OMELETS 

Plain Omelet 

5 eggs 1^/^ teaspoonfuls salt 

1-3 cupful boiling water 1 tablespoonful snowdrift 

Vs teaspoonful pepper 

Separate the eggs, beat the yolks until lemon col- 
ored, and add the seasonings and boiling water. Whip 
the egg whites until stiff and fold the yolk mixture 
into them. In the meantime, heat a good-sized frying 
pan and melt the butter in it. Turn the omelet mix- 
ture into this and cook it gently, lifting it around the 
edges with a knife to allow the uncooked portions to 
precipitate. When the omelet seems solidified, allow it 
to brown on the bottom, then place it in the oven to 
**set" the top. Cut at right angles to the handle, fold 
over and transfer to a platter by means of a pancake 
turner. 

Plain Omelet 

Six eggs, half a teacupful of bread crumbs, a little 
melted butter, one pint of fresh sweet milk; salt and 
pepper to taste. Break eggs separately, beat yolks 
light; add bread crumbs to the milk, salt and pepper. 
Beat whites, stir in, and cook immediately on a long, 
hot griddle, lightly, but well greased. When brown 
on one side, cut through the middle, roll in two pieces. 
Place in a warm, covered dish ; butter and serve. Six 
eggs should mak^ four rolls. 



208 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Variations of Omelet 

No. 1. Spread well-seasoned, slightly thickened, 
canned tomatoes in the fold of the omelet. 

No. 2. Put the omelet together with creamed oys- 
ters or creamed chicken. 

No. 3. Put the omelet together with creamed 
cheese, creamed spinach, peas, asparagus, or onions. 

Chicken, Ham or Other Meat Omelets 

Proceed as for plain omelet, adding one-half cupful 
of tender chicken, cut fine, or a light teacupful of 
grated ham. 

Baked Omelet 

Put a pint of new milk on the stove in a pan in 
which it is to be baked; put in this a slice of baker's 
bread and when it has dissolved nicely, stir, and then 
add a lump of butter the size of a small eggy with salt 
and pepper to taste. Beat until light the yolks of six 
eggs and stir into the milk ; let simmer slowly, stirring 
often until the whites have been beaten to a st 
froth, and then stir them into the other ingredients 
and set the pan in the oven for ten minutes. It should 
rise and brown nicely. Serve at once. 

Tomato Omelet 

Beat six eggs separately; add a tablespoonful of 
bread crumbs to the yolks, then a half teacupful of 
sweet milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Cut two or 
three fine, ripe tomatoes in half inch blocks; add the 
whites, then the tomatoes. Cook quickly; butter and 
serve immediately. 

French Omelet 

Beat six eggs separately, add a cupful of bread 
crumbs, a small onion chopped fine, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and a teacupful of fresh sweet milk 
to the yolks; stir in the whites, salt and pepper to 
taste. Set in the oven until well browned; serve im- 
mediately. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 209 

Cheese Souffle 

3 tablespoonfuls butter V2 teaspoonful paprika 

% cupful American cheese V2 cupful bread crumbs 

(grated) 1 cupful milk 

1 teaspoonful salt 4 eggs 

Melt the butter in a double-boiler top, add the 
cheese, paprika, crumbs, salt, and milk, and cook the 
mixture until the cheese has melted. Then separate 
the eggs, beat the yolks until lemon-colored, add the 
crumb mixture, and fold the whole into the egg whites, 
whipped until stiff. Transfer to a medium-sized bak- 
ing dish, which has been lightly rubbed with butter, 
and bake about thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

Cheese Omelet, No. 1 

Put two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese in a half 
pint of sweet milk. Let stand while the yolks of four 
eggs are beaten light. Then add two tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs to milk and cheese, stir slowly into the 
yolks. Salt and pepper to taste. Beat the whites, stir 
in and cool quickly on long griddle. Cut and roll in 
two pieces. Butter and serve in a warm covered dish. 

Cheese Omelet, No. 2 ^ 

One teacupful of grated cheese, half teacupful of 
grated bread crumbs, a teacupful of hot water and a 
pinch of salt. Stir until like cake batter, then beat 
in two eggs and bake quickly. 

Vegetable Omelets 

Half a teacupful of cold boiled Irish potatoes, 
chopped fine, with parsley or any vegetable liked, may 
be added to a plain omelet and fried or baked. 



210 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

VEGETABLES 



IRISH POTATOES 

Potatoes, Roasted in Ashes 

Put the potatoes down in the ashes, cover well 
and let stay until done. The length of time required 
will depend on the size of the potatoes. 

The skin protects the potato during cooking, and 
the salts of potash, which are dissolved and lost when 
the potato is peeled and boiled, are retained, to the 
great improvement of the flavor. 

Irish Potatoes 

Scrape medium sized potatoes. Cut them as you 
peel an apple, being careful not to break them. Place 
them in very cold salt water for a few minutes, drain 
over a cloth and fry in hot lard until crisp. These are 
nice to serve with fried fish. 

Saratoga Chips 

Pare perfectly sound potatoes, cut them in very 
thin slices and stand them in cold salt water for thirty 
minutes. Dry and fry in boiling lard, drain them in a 
colander or on a piece of soft, brown paper ; put in the 
oven a minute to dry. 

Duchess Potatoes 

One quart of mashed potatoes, one ounce of butter, 
a teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful of pepper, and 
the yolks of two raw eggs. When the potatoes are 
hot mash them through a colander, add the butter, 
salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; then the raw yolks 
of the eggs; mix all together; then form into cakes 
two inches long and one inch wide, put them on a 
buttered tin, and brush them over the top with the 
white of ^gg\ put them in a moderate oven to brown 
delicately. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 211 
French Fried Potatoes 

Cut some cold boiled potatoes into small square 
blocks; shred half an onion finely, drop potatoes and 
onion into boiling lard and fry a light brown; drain 
on paper and serve in a very hot dish. Dust with 
powdered parsley before serving. 

Potato Scallops 

Boil some potatoes, slice them fine and put them 
into scallop shells which have been previously buttered 
and dusted with bread crumbs; fill the scallop shells 
only half full of potato ; then add some egg and cream 
beaten up together ; sprinkle the top with bread crumbs 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Potatoes With Ham 

Boil some potatoes, slice them quite thin, put them 
in a pan with a good sized piece of butter, and let them 
heat thoroughly, but not fry ; boil four eggs very hard 
and chop them fine, and chop fine about as much boiled 
ham as there is potato ; put all in a dish in layers, with 
a little salt, parsley and two cupfuls of cream, or sweet 
milk, cover the top with bread crumbs, cover the bread 
crumbs with small dots of butter, and bake a light 
brown. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Slice cold boiled potatoes in a granite pan, season 
with salt and pepper; cover with bread crumbs and 
place lumps of butter on top ; then cover all with sweet 
milk; over the top dust a little salt and black pepper. 
Bake in a hot oven until brown. 

Potato Snow 

Press a dozen hot, nicely boiled potatoes through a 
wire sieve into a warm vegetable dish. Serve imme- 
diately with hot cream, seasoned with salt and white 
pepper, or with thickened gravy. 



212 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Potatoes Au Gratin 

Boil potatoes until tender. Put in a dish to cool. 
Make a cream sauce with a tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a cupful of sweet milk. 
Cook for a few minutes. Peel and cut the potatoes in 
small cubes, place in a baking-pan, pour the sauce over 
them, and grate enough cheese over the top to cover 
evenly. Put in oven and bake until the cheese melts. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Peel eight large potatoes, carefully removing all 
eyes and specks, boil quickly in salted water until 
perfectly done. Remove at once from the water, 
mash, put into a bowl with a quarter pound of butter, 
salt and pepper to taste and a gill of cream or sweet 
milk. With an egg beater whip to a cream, remove to 
hot dish and serve immediately. 

Irish Potatoes and Fresh Middling Meat 

Take four large potatoes. Peel and slice in thick 
slices. Leave in water over night. The next morning 
parboil the potatoes. Take six thick slices of fresh 
middling meat, salt and dip in flour. Put in hot frying 
'pan. Cover and cook until thoroughly brown. Take 
the meat out and put potatoes in the grease and fry 
until a very light brown. Serve meat and potatoes 
together. 

Potato Souffle 

Put one cupful of mashed potatoes in a saucepan 
over the fire. Have ready the yolk of one egg^ beaten 
light, a large teaspoonful of cream, a teaspoonful of 
butter. Add these to the potato, stirring until smooth 
and light, whisk in the white of the egg, beaten stiff. 
Put the mixture in a buttered pudding dish and bake 
ten minutes. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 213 

Irish Potatoes Stuffed and Baked in Jackets 

Boil six large potatoes; cut each in half, remove 
the meat, taking care not to break the skins. Mash 
the potato, add a teaspoonful of butter, a tablespoon^ 
ful of mustard dressing, salt and pepper to taste, and 
two eggs; beat until smooth; return to the jackets, put 
the halves of each potato together, place in a hot oven ; 
let remain ten minutes, remove and serve on a napkin. 

Deviled Potatoes 

Bake large potatoes, cut in halves and scoop out 
the potatoes, leaving perfect shells. Season potatoes 
with butter, cream and salt. Beat until very light. 
Fill shells, dot with bits of butter; brown in a quick 
oven. 



SWEET POTATOES 

Sugared Potatoes 

Boil the potatoes. Peel and slice them rather thick. 
In the bottom of a baking dish put bits of butter, 
sprinkle sugar and put a layer of potato; then more 
butter, sugar and potato, until the pan is full. Let 
the top be strewed with sugar and bits of butter and 
pour over it a teacupful of water. Put it in the oven, 
and after it begins to cook, once or twice moisten the 
top with a httle butter and water to dissolve the sugar 
and prevent its drying on top of the potato. 

To Fry Sweet Potatoes 

Peel and slice the potatoes ; place in a pan and pour 
boiling salted water over them; let them stand for 
half an hour, or boil for about ten minutes. Take 
them out and dry them and fry in hot lard. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Peel, slice, and throw into cold salted water for 
half an hour. Wipe dry, fry brown in boiling lard. 
Do not have the water too salty. 



214 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Wash the potatoes, place in the oven and bake 
slowly with a steady lire. 

Sweet Potatoes Boiled and Fried 

Parboil ; then peel, cut in pieces and fry in boiling 
lard. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes With Marshmallows 

Boil the potatoes, peel and mash. Beat two eggs 
with one cupful of sugar. Add a cupful of milk. Mix 
with the potatoes in a baking pan. Place in stove and 
cook until brown. When the potatoes are brown, cover 
them with marshmallows and continue baking until 
marshmallows are melted. 



ONIONS 

French Fried Onions 

Slice onions; separate the rings. Flour each ring 
and dip in sweet milk. Drop in boiling fat (or cook 
in a basket). Cook until a light brown, then place on 
brown paper until cool. Sprinkle with salt. 

Onions Au Gratin 

Boil onions until tender. Salt to taste. Pour off 
water, place in baking dish. Cover with cream dress- 
ing. Sprinkle with grated cheese. Put lumps of but- 
ter on top and bake in a quick oven. 

Baked Onions 

For this use large onions, parboil in boiling water 
for five minutes, dry carefully, wrap each one in but- 
tered paper, lay in a baking pan and cook in a hot oven 
until they can be pierced with a straw. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 215 

Onions Boiled in Four Waters 

Boil onions in one water ten minutes; drain, and 
place in fresh boiling water to cover. Change the 
water in this manner three times, letting the onions 
cook an hour or more. Drain off all the water, and 
serve hot, with pepper, salt and butter. Place in a 
covered dish. 



SPINACH 



Pick the leaves from the stalks and wash the spin- 
ach in several waters until entirely free from grit and 
sand; put in a sauce pan with just sufficient water to 
prevent its burning; add a seasoning of salt and turn 
the vegetables frequently while cooking. When done 
enough, drain the spinach in a colander, squeeze it 
dry as possible and chop it finely. For a quart of 
spinach, add one large tablespoonful of butter, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and sufficient 
cream to moisten it. If you have no cream, make a 
little thickening the same as for drawn butter. Gar- 
nish with small diamonds of toast. 

Spinach is nearly all water and less of the potash 
salts — its most valuable constituent — is lost when 
cooked in its own juices than when cooked in a large 
quantity of water. 



SALSIFY 



Stewed Salsify (Oyster Plant) 

Scrape salsify roots, crown and all. Cut into inch 
long pieces and quarter them. Throw them into boil- 
ing water that is properly salted and cook until ten- 
der. Drain off the water until only a gill is left in the 
sauce pan, then add a large piece of butter, a teacupful 
•of sweet milk, or cream, salt and pepper and a little 
flour creamed smooth with butter. 



216 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

ASPARAGUS 

To Serve Canned Asparagus 

Place the tips on lettuce leaves and serve with 
vinagrette dressing. 

Asparagus Tips on Toast 

With a cream dressing, make a nice tea dish. Make 
dressing as given for creamed oysters. 

Asparagus With Eggs 

2 bunches asparagus % teaspoonful salt 

4 eggs % teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Cook the asparagus, cut off the tender tops and 

lay them on a buttered pie dish, seasoning with salt 

and pepper and melted butter. Beat the eggs just 

enough to break the yolks, pour over the asparagus 

and bake eight minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 

with slices of boiled ham. 

Asparagus on Toast 

Wash the asparagus and boil for twenty minutes, 
then drain and cut off the tender parts ; chop these into 
small dice and mix them with a piece of finely minced 
onion ; then put into a sauce pan, with the beaten yolk 
of one ^gg, two or three tablespoonfuls of cream and a 
seasoning of salt and pepper. Stir until thoroughly 
hot, then pour over buttered toast, cover the whole 
with some well made white sauce. Garnish with 
parsley and serve. 



ENGLISH PEAS 

To Cook Dried Peas 

Soak for several hours in cold water; then put 
them in boiling water with enough bacon to season, 
and cook slowly until they mash easily. 

To be good, the water should nearly all boil out 
and leave them almost dry. Fresh field peas can be 
cooked the same way, omitting the soaking in cold 
water. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 217 
English Peas and Irish Potatoes with Creamy Gravy 

One dozen young potatoes and a pint of peas. Boil 
each vegetable separately until done, seasoning with 
salt. Then pour off the water. Have ready a gravy 
made of one pint of sweet milk, thickened slightly with 
a little flour mixed with water. When this has boiled 
up well, season with salt and pepper and a teaspoonful 
of butter and pour over the vegetables which have 
been placed together in a covered dish. 

Canned Peas 

Canned peas should be opened as soon as possible, 
an hour of exposure to the air being none too long to 
restore them to their natural flavor. Place a table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan, with pepper and 
salt to taste; turn in the peas and cook for five min- 
utes, when, if good quality, they will be thoroughly 
done. Some cooks prefer to add three tablespoonfuls 
of sweet cream to one of butter and put in a level 
teaspoonful of granulated sugar. 



SQUASH 

Baked Squash 

Boil, mash and let get cold, then beat up very light; 
add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two eggs, 
thoroughly beaten, three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, 
with a pinch of soda; season well with pepper and 
.salt, put into a buttered dish, sift dry bread crumbs 
over the top and bake in a quick oven. 

Stewed Squash 

Pare and cut in small pieces four medium sized 
squashes. Slew in water half an hour, then pour in a 
teacupful of sweet milk or cream; cook until tender, 
add a teaspoonful of butter. Season to taste, and 
serve. 



218 THE J^EW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Fried Squash 

Pare and slice, throw into cold water slightly salted. 
Make a thick batter of flour and sweet milk, or flour 
and eggs. Dip the slices in the batter, and fry a 
rich brown in boiling lard. The proportion for the 
milk batter is a half teacupf ul of sweet milk or cream 
to one tablespoonful of flour (beaten to a smooth 
paste). That for the egg batter, one egg to one table- 
spoonful of flour. 



Boiled Okra 

Take young tender pods of okra and boil in salt 
water. Drain, pour over a teacupful of cream, add a 
teaspoonful of butter, season with pepper and let sim- 
mer five minutes. Serve hot. 

Okra with Tomatoes 

Wash pods of okra and cut in thin slices sufficient 
to fill a quart measure. Peel tomatoes to fill a pint cup 
when sliced. Put together in a sauce pan, add a little 
salt, cover and let simmer gently for half an hour; 
add a tablespoonful of butter, with pepper and serve. 

Okra and Onions 

Slice a quart of okra and slice thin two onions. 
Slice a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, fry it brown, 
take up, put the okra and onion in the fat and fry 
brown. Arrange the bacon on a dish and lay the okra 
and onions over. 

Okra 

Cut off the stems, put in water, in a bright, clean 
vessel and boil till tender (a dark vessel darkens the 
okra). Add salt, pepper and butter; serve. Eat with 
vinegar, if liked. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 219 

RICE 

Mince fine some beef or chicken (some cold hash 
will do), stew until done. To a teacupful of this add 
the same of hot boiled rice, mix well, seasoning with 
butter, salt and pepper. Spread thick on slices of 
toast, put in oven five minutes and serve immediately. 
A raw egg may be added to the rice, etc., if liked. 

To Cook Rice 

To each cupful of rice allow three cupfuls of water. 
Have water well salted and boihng briskly ; add washed 
rice and boil steadily for twenty minutes. Wash thor- 
oughly and allow to stand for several hours before it is 
to be used. Return to oven for only time enough to 
heat thoroughly. This insures thoroughly cooked^ 
perfectly white and dry rice. 

South Carolina Rice 

Pick and wash through three waters, one pint of 
rice; add one teaspoonful of salt. Then place in a 
boiler with three pints of water. Bring slowly to a 
boil, then simmer gently until a grain taken between 
the fingers yields to the slightest pressure. The large 
supply of water is the secret of successfully cooking 
rice, keeping the grains distinct. When done enough 
drain through a colander, shake gently before a hot 
fire until dry. Then serve in a hot, covered dish. 

Rice with Tomatoes 

Place a cupful of well washed rice in two cupfuls of 
boiling water, in a double boiler, and add a teaspoonful 
of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. When the rice is 
done pour in a scanty pint of hot cooked and strained 
tomatoes that have been well seasoned with salt, pepper, 
butter, and if liked, a little sugar. Stir the tomatoes 
and rice well together, arrange as a garnish around 
roast beef. 



220 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Choice Method of Boiling Rice 

Wash well in cold water; drain and throw into 
hoiling water. When pulp, remove from the water 
with ladle; place in a clean vessel, and set near the 
fire, where it will keep hot, but not cook. Let it re- 
main so for fifteen minutes, or until it becomes white 
and dry, but not hard. 

Baked Rice 

Take cold rice, moisten with sweet milk, beat in 
three eggs to one quart of rice and milk; after they 
are mixed, season with salt and bake. Serve hot. 

Steamed Rice 

Pick and wash in three waters one pint of rice; 
place in a steamer over a pot of boiling water; cover 
closely and let it remain until a grain will easily mash 
between the fingers. Salt and serve hot. Each grain 
will stand to itself. 

Rice Fritters 

Take a teacupf ul of cold rice, add one teaspoonf ul of 
melted butter, one of sugar and one-half of salt; add 
this to one well beaten egg and sufficient milk to make 
a stiif paste. When well mixed, shape into cakes, 
dip into beaten egg; then in cracker or bread crumbs, 
and fry in boiling lard. Turn carefully and when done 
on both sides place on brown paper to absorb all grease ; 
then serve hot. Omit sugar if desired. 

Rice Bread 

Mix with one cup of cold rice, three well beaten 
eggs, and one and a half cups of sweet milk, salt and 
white pepper to taste, and one teaspoonful of butter. 
Pour into a baking dish or pan and bake until a light 
brown. Add teaspoonful of baking powder if preferred. 
Serve at once. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 221 

TURNIPS 

Turnip Salad 

If very young, wash well ; place in a vessel of salted 
water and let boil until very tender. At the same time 
have another vessel of water with a piece of bacon 
sufficient to season the salad, boiling. 

When the salad is tender, take from the salted 
water and place in the vessel with the meat and let 
boil until well seasoned, and then serve. Boiling it 
first in the salt water takes out the bitter taste that 
■so many dislike. If the salad is large enough to have 
large stems in the leaves, remove the stems with a 
sharp knife, and cook only the leaf part. 

To Cook Turnips 

Place in a granite boiler that has a close fitting top, 
a piece of bacon two inches square, and add one quart 
of water. When this boils, add the turnips, which 
have been washed, peeled and sliced thin. Cover and 
let boil until very tender. The water should all be 
out, but the turnips should not brown to the vessel. 
Take out the meat; add a teaspoonful of sugar; let 
remain on the stove two or three minutes ; then mash 
fine, dust a little black pepper over them, and serve. 



EGG PLANTS 

Egg Plants Fried in Batter 

Peel, slice thin, and throw into salt water for half 
an hour; dry, and dip in a batter made in the propor- 
tion of a teacupful of sweet milk to one of flour. Fry 
in boiling lard. 

To Cook Egg Plant 

Peel and slice thin. Place in salt water for an hour. 
Drain and dip in batter, made of sweet milk and flour. 
Season with pepper and salt. Fry in hot lard or oil. 



222 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Fried Egg Plants 

Peel the egg plants, slice, let stand in cold water 
two hours; drain dry, dip them into the beaten yolks 
of eggs, then into grated crackers; fry them light 
brown in boiling lard, season lightly with pepper while 
they are cooking. 



MUSHROOMS 

Creamed Mushrooms 

Make a cream dressing of one spoonful of melted 
butter, and one tablespoonful of flour sifted in it, stir- 
ring to keep smooth ; then add two teacupf uls of fresh 
sweet milk ; season with salt and cayenne pepper. Let 
cook two minutes, being careful not to let burn. Serve 
on toast very hot. 

Broiled Mushrooms on Toast 

Peel and slice fresh mushrooms. Broil in butter 
until tender. Season with pepper and salt. Put on 
toast. Serve on large silver platter garnished with 
parsley. 



LETTUCE 

Serve the lettuce in a salad bowl, with a French 
dressing of oil and vinegar, or undressed, allowing 
each person to prepare it for himself. 



CUCUMBERS 

Lay the cucumbers in cold water (or on ice) for 
an hour before serving. Peel, cut in thin slices and 
heap in a glass dish, with a few shavings of white 
onions if liked; pepper and salt, and cover with good 
apple vinegar. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Slice, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in egg, then 
in cracker dust; fry brown. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 223 
Cucumbers Stuffed and Stewed 

Cut in half lengthwise, scoop out the seeds and 
fill the hollow with a bread or meat stuffing. Saute 
with butter enough to keep from sticking. Simmer 
until the juice flows freely, then add a little good 
broth, and boil gently until very tender. Lift the 
slices, reduce the juice to a glaze, which may be dis- 
solved in enough Veloute Sauce to cover. 



CABBAGE 

Cabbage Pudding 

Chop up small, enough white cabbage to fill a large 
baking pan when done. Put it in a pot of boiling 
water that has been salted, let it boil until tender, then 
drain thoroughly in a colander. In two quarts of the 
cabbage stir a half pound of butter; salt and pepper 
to taste, one pint of sweet cream and four eggs beaten 
separately. Add also a pinch of cayenne pepper; put 
in a pan and bake for half an hour. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

1 cabbage 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 oz. fat pork (chopped fine) 1 teaspoonful parsley 

2 oz. tender beef (chopped 1 teaspoonful minced onion 

fine) 1 French roll 

2 tablespoonful butter Few grains cayenne 

2 egg yolks 

Parboil cabbage until thoroughly wilted, drain and 

cool; unfold leaf by leaf, until the heart is reached. 

Chop the tender leaves. Soak the roll in milk and 

press dry. Beat the egg and bread together, add the 

creamed butter and work in the meat, cabbage and 

seasoning. Form into a ball and place in the cabbage 

head. Refold the leaves and bake three or four hours, 

basting with butter and water. Serve on a round, hot 

platter with the gravy from the pan. 



224 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Stewed Cabbage 
Chop small one gallon of hard, white cabbage. 
Have ready a pot of boiling water salted to taste, and 
with a tiny pinch of soda in it. Put in the cabbage and 
let it boil until tender. Then drain it through a colan- 
der, press out carefully all of the water. Put it in a 
saucepan with four ounces of nice butter, a teacupful 
of sweet milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
thoroughly, and let it stew until the cream is all 
absorbed. On no account let it burn, which it is apt 
to do if not constantly stirred. Serve immediately. 
Cabbage is never nice when it remains some time after 
it is done. 

Cabbage Boiled Without Meat 

Boil white cabbage in salt water until tender. 
Drain, place, in a hot covered dish ; butter, pepper and 
salt; then serve. One tablespoonful of butter to a 
medium sized head of cabbage is the proportion. 

Cabbage Boiled Whole 

Take one firm, white cabbage; remove the outside 
leaves, tie around so that the leaves will not fall apart. 
Cut out the inside from the stalk end, chop fine, season 
to taste with salt, pepper and butter (a little mustard, 
if liked), then return to the cavity from which it was 
cut ; now place carefully in a pot, cover with cold water 
and boil until done. Serve on a flat dish. Mustard 
dressing is nice with this. 

Cold Slaw, No. 1 

One medium sized cabbage, chopped fine; salt to 
taste. Add to the well beaten yolks of three eggs one 
teaspoonful of prepared mustard, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, six of apple vinegar, and a teaspoonful of butter. 
Beat well together, cook till it thickens ; when cold, mix 
well with cabbage half hour before serving. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 225 

Cold Slaw, No. 2 

One egg, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, 
two-thirds of a cupful of vinegar; beat all together 
and boil in a bowl over the steam of a kettle till quite 
thick ; when cold, turn over a small half head of cab- 
bage chopped fine. If too thick add cold vinegar. 



CAULIFLOWER 

Have ready a pot of boiling salted water, place in a 
thin bag of cloth, a head of cauliflower (whole or 
broken). Drop into the water; boil fifteen minutes, 
or until tender. Place in a warm covered dish, and 
butter and pepper five minutes before serving ; or make 
a cream sauce of sweet milk, butter, flour, well boiled 
and seasoned. Pour over and serve. 



CELERY 

Raw Celery 

If the celery is well blanched, the inner stalks or 
heart can be separated and served on a pretty china 
dish, the soft yellowish-green leaves being used as a 
garnish. 

Creamed Celery 

Wash and cut in inch pieces as much celery as 
needed. Boil until tender in salt water. (Chicken 
stock preferred.) Strain and serve with cream dress- 
ing. This may be served on toast. 

Celery on Toast 

The coarser, outer stalks can be cut to pieces half 
an inch long, boiled in milk until tender, and placed 
on toast like asparagus. This may be varied by thick- 
ening the milk with a tiny pinch of corn starch, addmg 
salt and butter, pouring it over the celery. Celery is 
said to be beneficial to persons suffering from nervous 
diseases. 



226 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BEANS 

Haricot Beans a la Creme 

Soak the beans over night in cold water, then next 
day drain them and boil till tender in either salted 
water or thin white stock — the latter, of course, to be 
preferred. When thoroughly done, but not broken, pour 
off any liquid that remains and add to the beans a 
tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, and a small 
teacupful of rich cream. Stir gently for a minute or 
two until the beans are well coated and the whole 
thoroughly hot, then serve neatly piled up in the mid- 
dle of a hot dish with a border of toasted bread round 
about. 

Butterbeans 

Boil in salted water until tender. Butter and serve 
in a hot covered dish. 

Butterbeans which dry on the vines through the 
season may be put away in thick paper bags, or wooden 
boxes for winter use. To prepare them for the table, 
soak over night, then boil until tender, either butter- 
ing them or boiling with them a small piece of salt 
pork. 



Boston Baked Beans 

Take the quantity of beans desired and boil in an 
earthen jar twenty-four hours, letting it remain in the 
oven over night. Take as much as is necessary for 
dinner, place in a baking pan, with slices of salt pork; 
put in the oven and bake slowly until a rich brown. 
One should begin to boil early one morning so that the 
beans may be served for dinner next day. A large 
quantity may be boiled and baked as they are needed. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 227 

Baked Beans 

1 qt. beans % teaspoonful mustard 

1-3 lb salt pork 2-3 lb pork 

4 talblespoonfuls molasses 

Parboil the beans. Take off the stove and drain. 

Place 1-3 lb. pork in a dish. Pour the beans in and add 

molasses and mustard. Put 2-3 lb. of pork on top, fill 

with water and bake all day. Add water as necessary. 



MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI 

Italian Spaghetti 

1/4 lb breakfast bacon 3 lb chese 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil 2 large or 

2 lb onions 3 small boxes spagfhetti 

2 lb round steak Green and red peppers if de- 

3 cans tomatoes sired 

1 can mushrooms 

Fry the bacon, add olive oil, then brown onion and 
steak diced in small pieces in grease, then add tomato 
and one quart of water. Salt and pepper to taste and 
cover. Allow to simmer for two hours. Now add 
mushrooms and bacon broken in small pieces, and if 
desired, green and red peppers. Allow to simmer one- 
half hour longer. Cook spaghetti in salt water ; mash 
and add to the sauce, with cheese, grated, reserving 
a half pound to put over the top of the spaghetti 
when served. Allow to set for 10 to 15 minutes so 
the flavor of the sauce will strike through the spa- 
ghetti. 

Baked Macaroni 

Break macaroni into inch lengths. Boil it fast in 
salted water for fifteen minutes. Butter a baking dish 
and arrange the macaroni in it in layers, dotting each 
layer with bits of butter and sprinkling it with pepper 
and a trifle of ground mustard. Over each layer sprin- 
kle a tablespoonful of cheese. Pour a cup of milk over 
the whole, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 



228 THE ~NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

To Prepare Macaroni 

For one box of macaroni use one cupful of chipped 
fat ham. Place this in a frying pan with one green 
bell pepper and one onion, chopped fine. Let cook 
until the ham begins to brown. Then add one can of 
tomatoes, mashed fine. Break the macaroni in short 
pieces. Drain and pour the sauce on. Sprinkle grated 
cheese on the top and then bake. 

Croquettes of Macaroni 

Boil one-fourth pound of macaroni in salted water 
until very tender. Drain and toss in a sauce-pan with 
one heaped tablespoonful of butter, one-half ounce of 
Parmesan cheese, one-fourth ounce cooked tongue cut 
in fine dice. Spread on a well'buttered platter, about 
one inch thick, cover with a buttered paper, press it 
well down and set away to cool. Divide with the back 
of a knife into six parts, roll each one in grated cheese, 
then in beaten egg and in crumbs. Fry in very hot 
fat until well browned. Drain and serve on a folded 
napkin. 

Macaroni with Milk 

Break into pieces an inch long, a quarter of a pound 
of macaroni and boil in a quart of salted water ten 
minutes or until soft. Throw the macaroni into a 
colander, pour cold water over it and drain thoroughly. 
Then return it to the saucepan, pour over it a cupful 
of sweet milk or clear soup and place it on the fire ; let 
it simmer until the liquid has been absorbed, being 
careful that the macaroni does not burn. Now add a 
saltspoonful of salt, one of pepper, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese. Have ready a tablespoonful and 
a half of melted butter, pour over the macaroni aftep 
it has been placed in the serving dish. The cheese may 
be omitted if undesirable ; and in this case a little more 
seasoning will generally be required. A cupful of 
tomato sauce, prepared by highly seasoning fresh 
stewed tomatoes, may be poured over hot macaroni and 
is much liked. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 229 

Baked Spaghetti Au Gratin 

One-half package of spaghetti, break in inch 
lengths, boil in salt water 20 minutes. Put in a baking 
dish, alternate with one-half can of tomatoes. Sprin- 
kle with bread crumbs on top and brown. 



CORN 



Com Fritters, No. 1 

Make a batter of one cup of sweet milk, one cup of 
flour, a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder and a 
pinch of salt and one egg. To this add one cup of 
finely cut green corn, or one cup of canned corn. Drop 
in boiling lard or cooking oil and let brown. 

Corn Fritters, No. 2 

Have two eggs well beaten; stir into them half a 
teacupful of bread or cracker crumbs, then one of 
boiled corn ; mix thoroughly ; make into small cakes and 
fry in boiling lard, a few at a time. As they are cooked 
place in a colander, or on brown paper, to drain. 

Corn Pudding 

Turn out a can of corn and let stand ten minutes. 
Beat two or three eggs two minutes, stir in the corn, 
then a teacupful of sweet milk and a teaspoonful of 
butter. Season to taste with salt and white pepper, 
turn into baking dish and bake half an hour. 

Green Corn Cakes 

One pint of grated or cut off corn, three eggs, butter 
or lard, size of a walnut, one tablespoonful of flour, lit- 
tle milk and salt, pepper if you like- 
Baked Corn 

Fill a baking dish with corn, cut and scraped from 
the cob, cover the corn with sweet milk, season with 
salt, pepper and a teaspoonful of butter to each quart 
of corn and bake for half an hour. 



230 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Roasted Corn 

Shuck, silk and put in the oven and brown. Then 
salt and eat ; or roll in wet brown paper and put down 
in the ashes, covering well. When the paper begins to 
burn the com is generally done. 

Canned Corn 

For each can used allow a tablespoonful of butter, 
a heaping saltspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful 
of pepper ; place this seasoning in a saucepan and when 
the butter is melted, put the corn in and bring it to 
the proper heat. If the corn lacks moisture, add two 
or three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. 

Succotash 
10 ears corn 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 qt. Lima beans ^/4 teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cupful sweet cream 

With a sharp knife, cut the corn from the cobs 
and add to the Lima beans the last fifteen minutes of 
cooking. The mixture should be cooked nearly dry. 
Add butter, seasonings and cream, and simmer for 
ten minutes. 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

Cut the sprouts from two medium sized stalks, pick 
off all tarnished leaves, and lay them for fifteen min- 
utes in salted water. Drain them well and cook in 
plenty of boiling water, uncovered, until tender, from 
ten minutes to half an hour, according to their age. 
Drain in a colander and serve with Bechamel or Hol- 
landaise Sauce. 



BROCCULI 

Cook like Brussels Sprouts, and while draining pre- 
pare three-fourths pint of Bechamel Sauce. Lay a 
slice of buttered toast in a deep platter, arrange the 
largest head in the middle and smaller ones around it. 
Pour the sauce over and around them. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 231 

DANDELIONS 

Gather only the freshly grown plants; best when 
the dew is on them. The tenderest leaves make an 
excellent salad with bacon dressing. The whole 
plant, after thorough washing, may be boiled until ten- 
der, drained, chopped fine, seasoned with salt, vinegar 
and a liberal measure of butter. Those who think it 
too bitter may use half spinach or beet, or sorrel, in 
which case the dandelion should be partly cooked be- 
fore the more succulent plant is added. It cannot be 
too well recommended. 



TOMATOES 

Vinegar should not be poured over sliced tomatoes 
until they are put on the table. The addition of a few 
thin slices of onion will impart a pleasant taste. 
Lemon juice may be used in place of vinegar if pre- 
ferred. A dish of sliced tomatoes sprinkled with pow- 
dered sugar and shaved ice, with the juice of a lemon 
squeezed over, will be found very refreshing for break- 
fast in hot weather. 

Tomatoes, sliced, broiled and buttered, or dipped in 
egg batter and fried in boiling lard, will also be accept- 
able for the morning meal. 

Baked Tomatoes, No. 1 

Remove the meat from whole tomatoes, season 
crumbs of hghtbread with butter, onion, pepper and 
salt; fill tomatoes and bake. 

Baked Tomatoes, No. 2 

Remove the meat from six tomatoes, chop and add 
one cup of boiled ham ground ; season and fill tomatoes. 
Cover with bread crumbs, and a lump of butter. Bake 
on buttered tins until tender. 



232 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Tomatoes and Spaghetti 

Boil until tender, one-half box of spaghetti. Pour 
off water, and add one can of tomatoes, seasoned. Pour 
over one cup of milk in which two eggs have been well 
beaten, and sprinkle a layer of cheese on top. Bake 
lightly in a hot oven. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Scalloped tomatoes make a delicious dinner dish. 
To prepare it, peel large ripe tomatoes, slice and sprin- 
kle with salt. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
a layer of stale bread crumbs, then slices of tomatoes, 
more bread crumbs, with bits of butter, salt and pep- 
per ; continue to arrange the tomatoes and seasoning in 
this way until the dish is full; spread the top with 
butter, and set in a hot oven to bake an hour. Add 
sugar if desired. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Tomatoes, cut open, the centers filled with butter, 
pepper and salt, and the halves pressed together and 
baked in a hot oven, form an appetizing entree for 
dinner. 

Grilled Tomatoes 

Place on a thin round slice of buttered bread a 
thick slice of tomato. Season with salt. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese, either Swiss or American, and 
place one strip of bacon on top. Cook in a moderate 
oven until the bacon is crisp. 

Stewed Tomatoes, No. 1 

After being peeled and chopped, put in a sauce pan 
and set over a slow fire to simmer for an hour ; then to 
every pint of stewed tomatoes add a cup of bread 
crumbs, a tablespoonful of butter, a pinch of pepper 
and salt each, with half a teaspoonful of sugar, and let 
cook for half an hour. When done they should be 
smooth and thick, but not stiff or full of lumps. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 233 

Stewed Tomatoes, No. 2 

Take medium sized tomatoes, peel, slice and place 
in a stew pan, with a teaspoonf ul of salt, one of butter, 
a tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of black pepper. 
Cook for one hour and a half ; let brown to the pan. 

Tomatoes Stuffed With Celery, Cucumber and Green 
Pepper, Served With French Dressing 

Select twelve even sized ripe tomatoes; scald 
quickly and slip the skins from them, carefully re- 
moving that at the blossom end with a small knife. 
Set on ice to chill, then cut slice from the end of each 
tomato, and with a sharp teaspoon remove as much of 
the meat as possible without breaking the outer skin. 

Chip fine three medium sized heads of celery and 
three bell peppers; remove seed and core from the 
latter ; peel and slice three cucumbers and cut into dice. 
Cut into small pieces the meat taken from the toma- 
toes. 

Make a dressing as follows: Turn into a soup 
plate four tablespoonfuls of olive oil; add to this a 
level teaspoonf ul of salt and the same of pepper. Beat 
in, pouring slowly four tablespoonfuls of apple vine- 
gar ; whip with a fork until creamy. 

Mix the chopped vegetables together, seasoning 
with a teaspoonful of salt, then mix in, lightly, the 
dressing. Fill the tomato shells with this, put on 
and keep on ice until ready to serve. Garnish with a 
spray of delicate endive across the top. 

Tomatoes Stuffed With Eggs 

Peel and hollow a medium sized tomato. Season 
with salt and fill with a fresh egg. 'Sprinkle cracker 
crumbs and grated cheese ; salt to taste and add a lump 
of butter. Bake until the egg is set. 

Broiled Tomatoes 

Slice tomatoes about one-third of an inch thick. Dip 
in cracker crumbs. Broil in butter. Season with salt 
and pepper. When done sprinkle with sugar. 



234 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Baked Tomato 

6 tomatoes 1 cupful bread crumbs 

1 teaspoonful onions (finely 1 teaspoonful salt 

chopped) ^ 1 saltspoonful red pepper 

2 teaspoonfuls bacon grease 1 teaspoonful vinegar 

or butter 

Select not well ripened tomatoes. Wash and scoop 
out the middle without peeling. To the pulp add the 
bread crumbs, the onion, bacon grease or butter, salt, 
red pepper, and vinegar. Mix thoroughly and put in 
tomato shells, putting small pieces of raw bacon on 
top of each. Put in oven to bake for twenty minutes, 
having just enough water in bottom of pan to keep 
tomatoes from sticking to pan and burning. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Peel sound tomatoes, and scoop from stem end a 
part of center. Place them on ice and just before 
serving fill with celery cut fine and mixed with mayon- 
naise. Put a little mayonnaise on lettuce leaves and 
place the stuffed tomato on the dressing in the center 
of each leaf. 

Tom.atoes may be stuffed in the same way with 
chopped veal, celery and veal or chicken, celery and 
sweetbreads or chopped hard-boiled eggs and shredded 
lettuce. 

A very pretty salad may be made by preparing the 
tomatoes as above, partly filling them with mayon- 
naise and pressing into each one half of a hard-boiled 
eggf letting the rounded top rise a little above the 
tomato, and serve on lettuce leaves as above. 

To Serve Tomatoes 

Take off a very thin peeling, and cut the tomato 
from blossom end to stem end in six or eight points, 
according to size of tomato. Then open the tomato, 
leaving the seed in a round bulb in the center, and place 
mayonnaise around the seed. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 235 

PEPPERS 

Stuffed Peppers 

Chop one medium-sized chicken, and add the same 
quantity of rice boiled dry, two eggs, one small onion, 
and salt to taste. Place this in the peppers, dust on 
top with bread crumbs, place on each pepper a small 
piece of butter, brown slightly, and serve on toast with 
good curry sauce. Make this from the stock the 
chicken was boiled in ; thicken with a spoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth with butter and flavored slightly with 
onion, and last, add two level teaspoonfuls of curry 
powders. 

Pour sauce on pepper and toast just before serving. 
The peppers, after having stem end cut off and seeds 
removed, may be parboiled in the chicken stock for 
fifteen minutes before they are stuffed. 
Peppers Stuffed with Crabs 

One can of crabs, or a quart of fresh crab meat; 
three eggs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, half a 
teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of Worcester 
sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Cut off the tops of 
eight peppeTs (bell peppers if preferred) , then remove 
the seed and seams. Boil the eggs and chop fine, 
shred the meat (if fresh, this must be boiled until 
done) . Mix these together with the mustard, salt and 
pepper, sauce and butter. Stuff the peppers, put on 
the tops ; serve on a lettuce leaf, or garnish with nas- 
turtium leaves and flowers. 

Filling for Green Peppers 

Mix equal quantities of sardines, cheese and bread 
crumbs ; grate the cheese and shred the sardines. Mix 
this into a thick paste with fresh eggy and stuff the 
pepper. Pin on the tops of the peppers with tooth- 
picks. Make a light thin batter with one egg, sweet 
milk and flour, and salt to taste. Drop the peppers in 
the batter, fry in hot lard a nice brown. Drain on 
brown paper and serve on lettuce leaves. 



236 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Another Filling for Green Peppers 

Remove the stem ends and seed, and parboil the 
peppers for a few minutes. Chop one small onion, one 
can of mushrooms, one teacupful of chicken, veal or 
turkey, one finely chopped green pepper, a little parsley, 
mix all together, salt to taste, cook for five minutes in 
one tablespoonful of butter. Then fill the peppers, 
dust over with bread crumbs, and bake a light brown. 



PARSNIPS AND CARROTS 

Parsnips and carrots parboiled until quite tender 
and fried in the same way are very fine. If parsnips 
are young, scrape and throw into cold water; if old, 
pare and cut in quarters. Put them into a sauce pan 
of boiling water and boil until tender (if young, three- 
quarters of an hour; if old, one and a quarter hours). 
When done, drain them, lay them on a heated dish 
heads all one way, cover with cream sauce or drawn 
butter and serve with corned beef or boiled salt fish. 

Carrots a la Bruxelles 

Take a half dozen nice, fresh carrots, scrape and 
wash them well, then cut them into slices one-third of 
an inch thick, boil them until tender, then drain and set 
them on one side. Put two ounces of butter into a 
saucepan and, as it melts, mix in very smioothly, one 
ounce of flour and a small teaspoonful of salt. Cook 
these ingredients over a gentle fire for five minutes — 
stirring all the time Qest they should acqiuire any color 
— ^then add a teacupful of w^hite stock, or milk, twio egg 
yolks, a seasoning of pepper and some lemon juice, and 
continue stirring until the sauce boils. Lay in the car- 
rots, toss them lightly over the fire for a few minutes, 
then turn the w^ole out on a disih. Garnish with 
toasted bread and serve hot. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 237 

CAKES 



POUND CAKE 

Pound Cake, No. 1 

1 lb butter 12 eggs 

1 lb sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 lb flour 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar 

The soda and cream of tartar must be dissolved 

separately; the soda in a little less than half a cup of 

water, the cream tartar, in half a cup of water. Beat 

yolks and sugar together ; the flour and butter together. 

The whites beat separately, to a stiff froth. When all 

are well beaten, mix the eggs into the butter and flour 

thoroughly ; flavor to taste and mix in soda and cream 

of tartar. Bake rather quickly. 

Poiind Cake, No. 2 

10 eggs % pound butter 

1 lb sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla or 

1 lb flour lemon 

Break the eggs separately ; beat the yolks and sugar 

together ; add half of the flour, well sifted. Cream the 

butter, beat in, then add rest of the flour and the whites 

of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Then the flavoring. 

Bake in a moderate oven, about two hours. 

Soft Ginger Pound Cake 

1 teacupful molasses 5 teacupfuls flour 

2 teacupfuls sugar 4 eggs 

% teacupful butter 2 tablespoonfuls ginger 

1 teacupful buttermilk 1 level teaspoonful soda 

Old Fashioned Lady's Cake 

16 eggs (whites) 1 lb powdered sugar 

1 lb flour, sifted 2 wine glasses rose water 

1 lb butter (fresh) V4 pound bitter almonds 

Blanch the almonds in scalding water. Pound them 

one at a time in a mortar, pouring in, as you do so, the 



238 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

rose water — a few drops at a time — to moisten tliem, 
make them lighter, and keep them from sinking in a 
lump to the bottom of the cake. On no account use 
sweet almonds. When they have been pounded to a 
smooth paste, cover them and set them away in a cold 
place. It is better to prepare them the day before they 
are wanted. Cut up the butter in the sugar and beat to 
a light cream. Take the whites only of sixteen eggs 
and beat till they stand alone. Then stir into the 
creamed butter and sugar alternately with the flour, a 
little at a time. Stir the whole mixture very hard, and 
then put into a well buttered tin pan, and set imme- 
diately in a hot oven. It will require more than two 
hours to bake. Be careful not to let burn. When sure 
it is done, which can be ascertained by testing it with 
a twig from a corn broom, place it on an inverted sieve, 
cover lightly with a napkin, and let it cool gradually. 
When cold, ice it with whites of egg and powdered loaf 
sugar, flavored with ten drops of oil of lemon or one 
drop of oil of roses. Don't cut until the next day. 
This cake is beautifully white and, if the recipe is 
strictly followed, will be found delicious. If put in a 
cool place and guarded from the air, it will keep a 
week. 

The yolks may be used in Gold Cakes. 





Chocolate 


Loaf 


1 


cupful butter 


2 


tablespoonfuls baking 


2 


cupfuls sugar 




powder 


4 


egg's 


1 


cupful chopped almonds 


1 


cupful Irish potatoes 


1 


teaspoonful vanilla 




iboiled and grated 


V2 


cupful sweet milk 


1 


teaspoonful vanilla 


2 


cupfuls flour 


V2 


cupful sweet milk 


2 


tablespoonfuls baking 


2 


cupfuls flour 




powder 



Cream the butter and sugar, then add the yolks of 
the eggs, the potatoes, chocolate, almonds and vanilla 
and milk, and beat well. Then add one cup of the 
sifted flour, then the whites, beaten stiflly, then the 
other cup of flour with the baking powder. Bake in a 
loaf for three-quarters of an hour, and serve hot or cold. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 239 

Six Egg Cake 

4 cupfuls flour (sifted 1 cupful butter 

twice) 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

6 eggs powder 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 teacupful milk 

Beat yolks of eggs with one cupful of sugar; beat 
butter and other cupful of sugar. Mix and add one- 
half cupful of flour, then alternately, the milk and 
flour that has been sifted with the baking powder, then 
last, add the whites stiffly beaten. Bake well in 
greased tins. 

Use any filling desired. 



GOLD CAKE 

Premium Gold Cake 

8 eggs (yolks) 4 teaeupfuls sifted flour 

2 eggs (whites) 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

2 teaeupfuls sugar 1 heaping teaspoonful bak- 

1 teacupful butter ing powder 

1 teacupful sweet milk 
Sift the baking powder in the flour. Beat the yolks 
and sugar until very light; cream the butter and add 
to this. Stir in one cupful of flour, then the sweet 
milk; then the rest of the flour, last the whites, well 
beaten, and the vanilla. Bake one hour and a half in 
a moderate oven. 

Old Fashioned Gold Cake 

12 eggs (yolks) 4 teaeupfuls sugar 

6 teaeupfuls sifted flour 3 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 teacupful milk powder 

11/^ teaeupfuls butter 

To use with Old Fashioned Lady Cake both for the 
sake of using the yolks of part of the eggs whose whites 
were put in the lady's cake, and for the sake of the 
contrast of color. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until very 
light; add the milk, the eggs — very thoroughly beaten 
— and, lastly, the flour twice sifted with the yeast 
powder. One-half the quantity given in these recipes 
would probably be ample for modern requirements. 
Our grandmothers were generous providers. 



240 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Gold Cake, No. 1 

% teacuipful butter (fiull) Vz teaspoonful salt 

1 teacupful powdered sugar l^^ tea.^poonfuls baking 
4 eggs (yolks) powder 

% teacupful sweet milk 1 teaspoonful lemon ex- 

2 teacupfuls sifted flour tract 

Mix in the order given, creaming the butter first. 
Beat the eggs well, sift the salt and baking powder 
in the flour. Beat until perfectly smooth and bake in a 
shallow tin, lined with buttered paper, from twenty 
minutes to half an hour in a steady oven, being careful 
not to open the door suddenly upon it. Powdered sugar 
sifted thickly over the top, just before baking, improves 
its appearance, or you can cover it with icing. Cut in 
three inch square blocks. 

Gold Cake, No. 2 

May be made as for White Cake No. 1, using yolks 
instead of the whites of the eggs. 



WHITE CAKE 

Premium White Cake 

^ eggs (whites) 4 light teacupfuls sifted 

2 teacupfuls sugar flour 

1 teacupful butter 1 heaping teaspoonful 

1 teacupful sweet milk baking powder 

Sift the baking powder in the flour, cream the but- 
ter and sugar together until very light; beat into this 
one cupful of the flour, then add the sweet milk, now 
beat in the rest of the flour; when perfectly smooth 
stir in the well beaten whites ; last, the vanilla. Bake 
one hour and a half in a moderate oven. 

Snow Cake 

8 eggs (whites) 2 cupfuls flour 

2 cupfuls sugar 2 Iheaping teaspoonfuls 
1 cupful butter baking powder 

1 cupful corn starch 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 241 
White Cake, No. 1 

4 eggs (whites) l^^ teacupfuls flour, in which 
1 teacupful sugar has been sifted 

V2 teacupful butter l^/^ teaspoonfuls baking 

V2 teacupful sweet milk powder 

Cream butter and half the sugar together; beat 
the eggs to a stiff froth, and add to them the rest of 
the sugar ; add flour and eggs alternately to the butter. 
Last, add the milk. 

White Cake, No. 2 

13 eggs (whites) 1 teacupful butter 

5 teacupfuls sifted flour 1 teacupful buttermilk 
21/^ teacupfuls flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

If preferred, use one cup of sweet milk and one tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. 



White Cake, No. 3 

1 cupful white sugar 4 eggs (wihites only) 

2 cupfuls sifted flour 1 teaspoonful baking 
V2 cupful butter ' powder 

V2 cupful sweet milk 

Cream the butter and sugar, and beat until light; 
add sweet milk and flour, then whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Beat well for several minutes 
and bake quickly. 



White Mountain Cake 

2 cupfuls sugar V2 cupful sweet milk 

V2 cupful butter 2^^ cupfuls flour 

1 cupful sugar 2^/^ teaspoonfuls baking 

8 eggs powder 

Cream the butter with one cupful of sugar; beat 

the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix with 

the other cupful of sugar, then beat in the milk and the 

flour, into which the baking powder has been stirred. 

Flavor with vanilla. This makes a very delicate, nice 

cake. 



242 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

Angel's Food Cake 

11 eggs (whites) 1^/^ cupfuls granulated sugar 

1 cupful flour 1 teaspoonful vanilla or 

I teaspoonful cream of almond 

tartar 

Measure the flour after sifting once, mix with 
cream of tartar and sift four times. Beat the whites 
of the eggs until stiff and flaky. Add the sugar and 
beat again; add vanilla or almond, then mix in flour 
quickly and lightly. Line the bottom and funnel of a 
cakepan with paper not greased, pour in the mixture 
and bake about forty minutes. When done loosen the 
cake around the edges and turn out. 

Ange! Food 

II eggs 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
1^/2 tumblerfuls granulated 1 teaspoonful cream of 

sugar tartar 

1 tumblerful sifted flour 

Sift the flour four times, add cream of tartar and 

sift again. Sift the sugar and measure it; beat the 

whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, on a large platter; 

on the same platter, add the sugar lightly. Then add 

the flour gently, then the vanilla. Don't stop beating 

until you put it in the pan. Bake forty minutes in a 

moderate oven, try with a straw, and if too soft, let 

it remain a few minutes longer. Don't open the oven 

until the cake has been in fifteen minutes. Turn the 

pan upside down to cool, and when cold, take out by 

loosening around the sides with a knife ; then ice. Use 

a pan that has never been greased. 

Cup Cake 

1 cupful flour 1 cupful milk or water 

2 cupfuls sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
4 cupfuls flour powder 

5 eggs (leave out three of the whites for icing) 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 243 

Feather Cake 

3 eggs V2 teacupful sweet milk 

2 teacupfuls flour 1 teaspoonful baking 

% teacupful butter powder 

1 teacupful sugar 

Beat the eggs separately ; sift the baking powder in 

the flour ; add the milk last. Used for a pudding with 

sauce, or cold for tea. 



SPONGE CAKE 

Sponge Cake, No. 1 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar 4 eggs 

2 cupfuls flour (sifted) % teacupful boiling water 

2 teaspoonful baking Pinch of salt 

powder Lemon or vanilla to taste 

Beat the whites and the yolks of the eggs sepa- 
rately ; add the boiling water after all the other ingre- 
dients have been mixed, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Sponge Cake, No. 2 

6 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

2 cupfuls sugar powder 

2 cupfuls flour Flavoring to taste 

10 tablespoonfuls boiling water 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together 
and add the beaten whites. Add to this one cupful of 
flour and ten tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Then 
add the rest of the flour and the baking powder. Fla- 
vor to taste ; bake in a moderate oven. 

. Croton Sponge Cake 

1 teacupful sweet milk 
(a little warm) 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar 

1 teaspoonful soda 

Sift the cream of tartar in the flour, dissolve the 
soda in the sweet milk and bake in a moderately quick 
oven. 



1 


lb flour 


1 


lb sugar 
lb butter 


6 


eggs 



244 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

White Sponge Cake 

5 eggs (whites) 1 teacupful sugar 

1 teacupful flour 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

Flavor as liked. Bake in a quick oven. 

Delightful Sponge Cake 

1 pint sugar 7 eggs 

1 pint flour Vanilla or lemon flavoring 

V2 tumblerful warm water 

Pour the water on the sugar and set it on the stove 

to cook till it is clear ; then pour while very hot, in a 

small stream into the well beaten yolks; when well 

stirred and very light, add the whites, beaten to a 

stiff froth. Add flavoring, and last, the flour sifted 

in very lightly. Bake in a flat stovepan in a very 

quick oven. 



FRUIT CAKE 

Little White Fruit Cake 

Follow exactly the recipe for fig eclairs, substitut- 
ing for the fig the following preparations: For 
twenty- four cakes: Chip fine enough citron to make 
two tablespoonfuls, grate half a smaHl cocoanut, cut 
into small dice four slices of pineapple, peel and seed 
and slice a quarter of a pound of Tokay or Malaga 
grapes, blanch and chip fine one-quarter pound of Jor- 
dan almonds. Mix these together and fill closely the 
cavities in the cakes, smoothing the tops with a knife. 
Ice as directed for fig eclairs. 

A Cheap Fruit Cake 

1 lb sugar Vz lb citron 

1 lb flour 4 eggs 

% lb butter 1 level teaspoonful cloves 

l^/^ lb raisins 1 level teaspoonful allspice 

1 teacupful buttermilk 1 small nutmeg 

1 teaspoonful soda 

Dissolve the soda in a little milk and add last. 





THE NEW ANNIE 


DENNIS COOK BOOK 24? 








Fruit Cake 




lb sugar 






1 teaspoonful mace 




lb flour 






2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 




lb butter 






3 lb raisins (seeded and 


10 


eggs 






chopped) 




cupful sweet 


milk 




1 lb citron (chopped) 




teaspoonful baking 




4V2 lb almonds, dates and 




powder 






dried figs, cut fine 


2 


teaspoonfuls 


allspice 




1 cupful brandy or whiskey 


1 


teaspoonful < 


cloves 




1 bottle champagne 



Beat the yolks of the eggs with a half cupful of 
sugar; cream the butter with the other half of the 
sugar, and then mix them; add flour and sweet milk 
with baking powder stirred into it; then the whites 
well beaten; one cup of syrup. Add the spices. Add 
the fruits and nuts. After these are put in the batter, 
add one cupful of good brandy or good whiskey. When 
done, pour over it a bottle of champagne. 

My Premium Fruit Cake 



12 


eggs 


1 


pound Brazil nuts 


iy2 


pounds butter 


1 


heaping teaspoonful 


11/2 


pounds flour 




cloves 


11/2 


pounds sugar 


1 


heaping teaspoonful all- 


1 


teacupful syrup 




spice 


1 


teacupful wine 


1 


heaping teaspoonful cin^ 


1 


level teaspoonful soda 




namon 


4 


pounds raisins 


V2 


pound flour (to flour 


3 


pounds currants 




fruit) 


11/2 


pounds citron 


1 


nutmeg (grated) 




1 pound 


[ English walnuts 



Break the eggs separately ; beat the yolks with half 
the sugar, cream the butter with the other half; then 
mix these; add half the flour, then the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; then the other half of 
flour; then the syrup with the soda well beaten in it. 
Now add the ground spices. Chip fine half the citron, 
three pounds of raisins, and the nuts. Now mix with 
these the currants and the pound of whole raisins; 
place in a large tray, and sift over them the half pound 
of flour; be careful to rub this flour well on the fruit. 
Stir the fruit quickly into the batter; put into the 



246 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

pan ; cut the rest of the citron in long strips a quarter 
of an inch thick, and place about the cake, just letting 
the batter cover; this holds the cake together, and 
keeps it from crumbling. Bake slowly for six hours, 
being ^pareful not to burn. When the cake is done, 
place on a large cloth; pour over it one teacupful of 
good wine, cover well with the cloth, and let remain 
till cold. This is ready for use in a few days, and will 
keep well. The currants should be washed and spread 
on a cloth to dry the day before using. Half this meas- 
ure will make a very nice cake. It is well to use three 
or four layers of w^ell greased brown paper in the pan, 
cutting to fit the sides. 

White Fruit Cake, No. 1 



1 


It) flour 


3 


teacupfuls cream of 


1 


lb pulverized sugar 




tartar in flour 


15 


eggs (wihites) 


1 


teaspoonful soda in 


V2 


lb butter 


1 


cupful sweet milk 



The quantity of fruit required: 

1/4 lb Malaga grapes V2 lb almonds 

3 or 4 bananas V2 lb raisins 

1/4 lb citron 2 or 3 cocoanuts 

Cream the butter perfectly white. Add flour after 
sifting three times. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth; add last. Cut the cake in seven layers, 
cover the first layer with icing and grated cocoanut, 
the next with icing, cocoanut and pineapple. (Take 
the core and hard part out of the pineapple and chop 
the soft part fine. Press juice out) ; third layer with 
icing, cocoanut and Malaga grapes, pulped and chopped ; 
fourth layer, icing, cocoanut and raisins seeded and 
chopped fine; fifth layer, icing, cocoanut and bananas 
chopped fine; sixth layer, icing, cocoanut and citron 
chopped; seventh layer, icing, cocoanut, blanched al- 
monds, chopped fine. Then put on the bottom layer 
of the cake for the top, ice it all over, sprinkle with 
cocoanut, and ornament, now and then, with whole 
almonds and raisins. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 247 

White Fruit Cake, No. 2 
Make a Premium White Cake. When the cake is 
cool, cut in four layers. Peel and slice six bananas 
thin ; grate one cocoanut and seed one pound of Malaga 
grapes. Spread the first layer with icing; then place 
the fruit on this ; first, a layer of bananas, then one of 
grapes, then one of cocoanut; spread the bottom of 
the next layer with icing, and place it. Proceed in 
this way with each layer; when this is done, ice the 
cake. 





Coventry Fruit Cake 


Vz 


lb butter, creamed with 




almonds 


V4. 


lb sugar 

lb flour 

lb eggs 

lb prepared currants 

lb stoned raisins 

lb citron and lemon peel 


1 

1 
1 
1 
2 


teaspoonful cloves 
teaspoonful cinnamon 
teaspoonful allspice 
small nutmeg 
teaspoonfuls baking 
powder 



% lb sweet and bitter 
Flour carefully the fruits and nuts before stirring 
in last. Blanch and pound the almonds. 

Cocoanut Cake 

2 teacupfuls sifted flour % teacupful sweet milk 

1 teacupful white sugar V2 teacupful butter 

1 teacupful cocoanut 1 teaspoonful baking 

(grated) powder 

Sift the baking powder in the flour; cream sugar 

and butter together until very light ; add half the sweet 

milk, and when well mixed, add half the flour, then 

the balance of the milk and flour. Add the eggs, 

beaten to a stiff froth, and lastly, the cup of cocoanut, 

well dredged in flour. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

The cocoanut should be grated, sprinkled lightly with 

sugar, and set in the sun a few hours before using. 

Raisin Cake 

Make a good white cake batter ; dredge with flour, 
one and a half pounds of raisins, chopped, and stir into 
the batter just before baking. It will require more 
time than a plain white cake. 



248 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

SPICE CAKE 

11/4 cupfuls butter % teaspoonful cloves 

3 cupfuls sugar 1^/4 beaspoonfuls cinnamon 
6 cupfuls flour 1% teaspoonfuls nutmeg 

6 eggs V2 teaspoonful allspice 

114 teaspoonfuls soda 

Sift the soda in the flour. 

Marble Spice Cake 

White Part 

4 eggs (whites) 2 teacupfuls sifted flour 
1 teacupful sugar V2 teaspoonful vanilla 

1/2 teacupful butter 1 level teaspoonful baking 

1/2 teacupful sweet milk powder 

Dark Part 

4 eggs (yolks) 1 teaspoonful ground cinna- 

1 teacupful sugar mon 

1/2 teacupful butter 1 teaspoonful ground nut- 
1/2 teacupful sweet milk meg 

2 teacupfuls sifted flour 1 teaspoonful ground all- 
1 level teaspoonful baking spice 

powder 

White Part: Mix as directed for Premium White 
Cake. 

Dark Part: Sift the baking powder in the flour. 
Beat yolks and sugar together until very light ; cream 
butter and add to this ; stir in one cupful of flour, then 
the milk, then the rest of the flour. Mix the spices 
and stir in last. Pour a layer of the dark batter in the 
cake pan, then spoonfuls of the white here and there, 
then the dark again, and the light, until all the batter 
is used. Bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. 

Pineapple Cake 

Use white cake batter ; for the filling, use two cans 
of grated pineapple for seven layers ; sweeten if neces- 
sary. If fresh pineapple is used, then add one cupful 
of sugar to the pineapple. Put over the fire and cook 
until jellied, being careful not to bum. Ice with plain 
icing. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 249 
Spice Cake 

6 eggs 1 teacupful black walnut 

4 teacupfuls sifted flour kernels 

2 teacupfuls sugar V2 teacupful sherry wine 

1 teacupful butter 1 teacupful ground cinna- 

1 teacupful sweet milk mon 

1 heaping teaspoonful bak- 1 teaspoonful ground cloves 

ing powder 1 teaspoonful allspice 

1 teacupful raisins chopped 1 teaspoonful grated nut- 
fine meg 

1 teaspoonful ground mace 

Sift the flour and yeast powder together. Break 
eggs together and beat thoroughly with a stiff egg 
whip, then add one cupful sugar, thoroughly incorpor- 
ating this. Cream the butter with the other cupful 
of sugar. To the egg and sugar add one teacupful of 
flour, then mix in the butter and sugar; now add 
another cupful of flour, then half of the milk, another 
cupful of flour, rolling the raisins in the remaining 
cupful of flour. Mix the spices together and stir into 
the batter, then add the raisins, and the nuts, which 
have been soaked in the wine. 

Make a plain white icing and divide into two parts, 
placing the vessel containing one part in a larger vessel 
of hot water to keep it from hardening before ready 
for use. To the other part add one teaspoonful of 
melted butter, and half teaspoonful of vanilla ; put the 
cake together with this, then ice all over with the 
other part. 



English Walnut Cake 

Make a batter as for white cake, bake in layers; 
put together with icing (into which has been stirred 
a teaspoonful of butter) ; and place English walnuts 
in large pieces between each layer, icing the bottom 
of each layer of cake as well as the top. When it is 
stacked, ice and stick over the top the nuts, shelled 
carefully, breaking them in halves, placing the broken 
side down. 



250 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Citran Cake 

4 eggs (whites) L heaping teaspoonful bak- 

2 teacupfuls flour (sifted) ing powder (sifted in 

1 teacup ful sugar the flour) 

^ teacupful butter Y2 teacupful flour, to dredge 

% teacupful sweet milk the citron 

1 teacupful citron (chopped 1 lb flour 

fine) 1 lb sugar 

10 eggs % lb butter 

Cream the butter and half the sugar ; beat the eggs 

separately, adding to the yolks the other half of the 

sugar; add to the butter part of the flour, then the 

yolks, the rest of the flour, and last the whites beaten 

to a stiff froth. Put in the cake pan three layers of 

well greased brown paper, the sides cut to fit the pan ; 

now put in a layer of batter (have the citron chopped 

fine and well flavored), a layer of citron, a layer of 

batter, a layer of citron, making thicker layers of 

citron as the top is reached. Have last, a thin layer 

of batter. Bake two hours in a moderate oven. 

Nut Cake 

1 cupful butter 1 teaspoonful ground cloves 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful ground cin- 
4 cupfuls sifted flour nam on 

8 eggs 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

3 cupfuls shelled nuts der in flour 

1 nutmeg 

Beat yolks of eggs and sugar until very light; add 
the butter, well creamed; then the flour, and whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix in the spices well ; 
lastly, add the nuts, well dredged in flour. Bake in a 
moderate oven one hour and a half, or until the cake 
begins to leave the sides of the pan. 

One Egg Chocolate Cake 

1 ^gg (yolk) 1 cupful sugar 

V2 cupful of milk 3 teaspoonfuls baking 

V2 cupful cocoa powder 

1^ cupfuls flour Butter size of egg 

Beat eggj add milk and cocoa and cook until thick. 

Cream sugar and butter, add sweet milk and cooked 

ingredients. Add flour and baking powder. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 251 

Caramel Cake 

1 cupful flour V2 cupful milk 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

2 eggs V2 cupful chocolate 

14 cupful butter 

Icing 

IV2 cupfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

V2 cupful milk 

Mix these together and boil until thick and ^ then 
beat until light enough to put cake together. 

Devil's Food Chocolate Cake 

V2 cupful butter 1% cupfuls flour 

1 cupful sugar 1 level teaspoonful soda dis- 

1 egg (whole) solved in milk 

2 eggs (yolks) 3 squares chocolate 
l^^ cupfuls milk Creamed butter 

Beat butter and sugar together. Beat the eggs- 

together and mix with creamed butter. Dissolve soda 

in milk. Scald milk and mix with chocolate. Mix one 

yolk with this and put in cake. 

Icing 

3 eggs (whites) 1 teaspoonful vinegar 

V2 cupful water 

Put over slow fire and when it begins to rope, pour 
slowly into stiffly beaten whites. Add vinegar and 
beat. 



LAYER CAKE 

Ribbon Cake 

1 teacupful butter 2 teacupfuls flour 

2 teacupfuls sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
1 teacupful milk powder 

1 teacupful corn starch 6 eggs (whites) 

Mix and divide into four parts. Leave one part 
white ; color one with ten drops of cochineal ; mix into 
one two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate; stir into 
one the yolks of two eggs. Bake in layer pans. Put 
together with a light jelly, then ice. 



252 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Cocoanut Cake 

9 eggs (whites only) V2 cupful sweet milk 

4 cupfuls sifted flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

2 cupfuls white sugar powder 

1 cupful butter 

Cream the butter and sugar together until very 
light ; add the sweet milk, then the flour, having sifted 
the baking powder in the flour and mixing well ; then 
half the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then the 
rest of the flour and the eggs. Beat this well for 
several minutes and bake in a thick cake. When per- 
fectly cool, cut in four layers and fill. To make the 
filling and icing, boil three cupfuls of best white sugar 
with one pint of water. Have ready in an earthen 
bowl, the well beaten whites of two eggs. Pour the 
sugar into the egg slowly, beating constantly. Take 
half of the icing and put where it will keep warm, to 
ice the cake. Add to the rest of the icing, two tea- 
cupfuls of grated cocoanut, one each of currants and 
chopped raisins ; place between the layers ; then ice 
the cake and before it dries spread over with cocoanut 
and set away to dry. If preferred, the currants and 
raisins may be left out. 

Chocolate Cake 

1 cupful butter 1 teaspoonful baking 

2 cupfuls sugar powder 

4 cupfuls sifted flour 5 eggs (leaving out three 

2 tablespoonfuls sweet milk whites) 

Filling 

1% cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

4 tablespoonfuls chocolate 3 whites of eggs 

Bake quickly in layer pans. Filling : Dissolve the 

chocolate, when cut fine or grated, in boiling water; 

add the sugar, then the whites, beaten light, and the 

vanilla ; boil on back of stove until it thickens, stirring 

constantly. When done, cool and place between the 

layers and ice over the top. Then ice with white icing, 

if liked. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 253 

Lemon Cheese Cake 

1 cupful butter 1 teaspoonful baking 
11/^ cupfuls sugar powder 

3 cupfuls flour 5 eggs 

2-3 cupful sweet milk 

Filling 

2 large lemons 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 teacupful sugar 

Bake batter quickly in layer pans. Filling: Mix 
butter and sugar, add lemons, then eggs; cook over 
slow fire until well jellied. Then place between layers. 
Be careful not to burn. 

White Almond Cake 

4 eggs (whites) V2 cupful sweet milk 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful baking 
Vz cupful sugar powder 

2 cupfuls flour 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Bake quickly in layers. Filling : Blanch in boiling 
water one pound of almonds, remove skins and beat 
fine in a strong piece of white cloth. Make icing ; place 
a layer of cake, a layer of icing and a thick one of 
almonds; then ice the bottom of next layer before 
placing it. Proceed as before. Ice all over. Orna- 
ment on top with whole blanched almonds. 

White Cake, Made With Butter and Buttermilk 

12 eggs (whites) 1 teacupful buttermilk 

1 teacupful butter 3 teacupfuls sugar 

5 teacupfuls flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Flavor to taste 

Whip the eggs to a stiff froth, add to this one tea- 
cupful of sugar; cream butter and sugar together; to 
this add one teacupful of sifted flour, then half tea- 
cupful of the buttermilk, now another cupful of flour, 
the rest of the buttermilk, and beat thoroughly ; fold 
in half the whites ; then a cupful of flour, then balance 
of the whites ; sift the baking powder in the last cupful 
of flour and stir it in hghtly. Bake in a moderate oven. 
It is said that this cake does not dry out like other 
white cakes. 



254 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Caramel Cake, No. 1 

5 eggs V2 teacupful sweet milk 

I'^A teacupfuls sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

4 teacupfuls flour powder 

1 teacupful butter 

Beat the yolks and half the sugar well ; the butter 
and rest of sugar, cream together. Mix these and beat 
in the milk, then the flour with the baking powder well 
mixed in, and the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in layer pans. 

For the caramel, brown half a cupful of sugar in 
a flat pan ; let it almost burn, then dissolve it by pour- 
ing one cupful of boiling water over it and letting it 
remain on the fire for fifteen minutes. When well 
dissolved, pour it over two cupfuls of sugar and boil 
as for icing, stirring often. When it will fall from 
the spoon in short drops, add butter the size of a 
walnut; let boil five minutes, stirring all the time. 
Then take from the fire and beat until stiif enough 
to spread on the cakes. Use plain icing or the caramel 
for top and sides. Flavoring can be used, but is not 
necessary if the sugar is browned sufficiently. 

Caramel Cake, No. 2 

8 eggs (whites) 3 teacupfuls sifted flour 

2 teacupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful baking 

% teacupful sweet milk powder 

% teacupful butter 

Filling 

1 lb brown sugar 1 full cup sweet milk 

1 full cup butter 

Beat all these well together; while cooking stir 

constantly. When it thickens, remove from the fire 

and beat till cool. 

Jelly Cake, or Roll 

Make a sponge cake; bake in layer cake pans; 
spread strawberry, apple, quince, scuppernong or pear 
jelly between each layer. Or, bake cake one inch thick 
in a long baking pan, spread with jelly and roll. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 255 

Croton Sponge Cake 

6 eggs V2 It) flour 

% lb butter 1 teaspoonful baking 

V2 lb sugar powder 

Cream the butter and sugar; beat the eggs sepa- 
rately. Bake in a layer cake pan, and use caramel 
filling. 

Chocolate Cocoanut Cake 

Make a white or yellow premium cake, baking in 
three layers, make a plain boiled icing and divide into 
two parts, keeping one part in a bowl set in a vessel 
of hot water. In the other stir two tablespoonfuls of 
chocolate which has been dissolved with a little boiling 
water, and a teacupful of grated cocoanut. Spread 
this between the layers and ice all over with the plain 
icing. 

Orange Cake 

Make a white cake batter, and bake in layers. 

Take the juice of one orange, and a quarter of the 
rind grated; to this, add one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a teaspoonful of 
butter. Mix all together, and cook in an earthen ves- 
sel until a thick jelly; spread between the layers, and 
ice with yellow icing. 

White Cake 

12 eggs (whites) 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1^/^ teacupfuls sweet milk powder 

4^/^ teacupfuls flour (lightly 1^/^ teacupfuls butter 

measured) 1 teaspoonful extract 

3 cupfuls sugar 

Use a half pint cup for measuring. Cream the 
butter, then add the flour to this ; whip the eggs to a 
stiff froth and add to this the sugar; stir this into 
the butter and flour, and last add the cup of milk in 
which has been stirred the baking powder. 

Add extract, and bake in a moderate oven. 



256 THE NEW ANmE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake 

Make a premium white or yellow, and bake in three 
square layers. Put in a pan in the warmer half a 
pound of fresh marshmallows. Have ready a plain 
white icing; dissolve two tablespoonfuls of grated 
chocolate with a little boiling water, stirring until 
smooth, then mix this with the icing and add one- 
half teaspoonful of fresh butter, spread a layer of the 
cake with this, then quickly place on this half of the 
marshmallows, which should be light and fluffy; on 
the bottom of the next layer put a thin coat of icing 
and put in place; on top of this spread more icing 
and the balance of the marshmallows; on bottom of 
top layer a thin coat of icing, and this put in place. 
Then ice all over with the balance of the icing, or, if 
preferred, with white icing. 

Kentucky White Cake 

1^/4 teacupfuls butter 12 eggs (whites) 

2^^ teacupfuls sugar 1 Iheaping teaspoonful bak- 

3% teacupfuls flour ing powder 

Cream the butter and sugar together, beating thor- 
oughly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; 
add to the butter and sugar the flour and whites alter- 
nately. Beat well for fifteen minutes after all is 
mixed. Bake in a loaf in a moderate oven. 

Metropolitan Cake 

8 eggs (whites) 1 tablespoonful allspice 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 cupful milk 

1 cupful butter 1^/^ tablespoonfuls cinnamon 

3 teaspoonfuls baking 1 teaspoonful cloves 

powder ^/4 lb citron (sliced) 

4 cupfuls flour %i lb raisins (chopped) 

1 cupful milk 

Bake a little more than three-fifths of this batter 
in three jelly tins. Add to rest of batter the spices 
and one-fourth pound each of citron and raisins. Bake 
in two jelly tins. Put together with frosting, alter- 
nately dark and light. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 257 

Sponge Cake 

5 eggs 1 teacupful boiling water 

2^ teacupfuls flour 3 teaspoonfuls baking 

2 teacupfuls sugar powder 

Beat yolks and sugar together fifteen minutes. 

Beat whites to a stiff froth and stir them in, then the 

boiling water, and last the flour in which has been 

sifted the baking powder. Flavor to taste, and bake in 

a square pan in a moderate oven. 

Jam Cakes 

8 eggs (yolks) 2 heaping teaspoons baking 

1 cupful butter powder 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful cloves 

3 cupfuls flour 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 
1 cupful jam 1 teaspoonful mace 

1 cupful wine 

Sift baking powder in flour. Beat eggs and sugar 
until light, add butter well creamed, then the flour, 
spice, jam and lastly the wine. Bake in layers. Put 
together with icing. 



Cream Cakes 

Make a measure of premium yellow cake, and bake 
in two square layers. Cut in diamonds; slice these 
in half and spread one-half with the cream filling and 
place the other half on top. Ice with chocolate icing. 



Filling 

2 eggs 1 teacupful sweet milk 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teacupful whipped cream 

Make a thick boiled custard with the eggs, sugar, 

and milk; when cold, mix into this one teacupful of 

very stiff whipped cream, which has been sweetened 

and flavoi'ed with vanilla or port wine. These should 

be used the same day they are filled. Almonds 

blanched and chopped fine, or candied fruits may be 

mixed with the filling if liked. 



258 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Black Chocolate Cake 

2 fceacupfuls brown sugar 1 teaspoonful cream of 

V2 teacupful butter tartar 

V2 teacupful sweet milk V2 teaspoonful soda 

2 teacupfuls flour % teaspoonful vanilla 

2 eggs 

Dissolve two squares of chocolate in half teacupful 

of boiling water and when cool, stir in before adding 

the milk, flour and eggs. 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

Plain Icing 

To ice one medium sized cake, take two teacupfuls 
of granulated sugar, and one teacupful of water; boil 
until it will thread from the spoon. Have the white 
of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, and pour the sugar 
into it very slowly, beating all the time. When per- 
fectly white, and almost cold, add a few drops of the 
juice of a fresh lemon, or flavor as desired. One egg 
to each cupful of sugar may be used if desired. 

Any icing may be thinned with the unbeaten white 
of an egg, when too stiff. 

Chocolate Icing 

One teacupful of grated chocolate dissolved in one- 
half teacupful of boiling water. Then add two tea- 
cupfuls of sugar and a teaspoonful of butter. Let it 
boil until it threads from the spoon, then beat until 
cold, or stiff enough to spread between the cake. 

Chocolate or Caramel Filling 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of milk and half 
a cake of chocolate. Put all into a pan over boiling 
water, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and let cook until 
thick, and then beat hard until thick enough to spread 
on cake. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 259 
Chocolate Filling 

Whites of three eggs, one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate. Cook until thick. 

Icing for Raisin Cake 

One pound of best icing sugar, the whites of two 
fresh eggs and the juice of one lemon. 

Put the sugar in a bowl and break the whites of 
the eggs into it, beat thoroughly until it will fall in 
flakes from the whip. Add the lemon juice and beat 
that in well, and the icing is ready for use. 

\lmond Filling for Layer Cake 

Blanch a pound of almonds, reserve a dozen and 
chop the remainder fine. Beat the whites of three 
eggs, addin,-^ gradually a scant cup of powdered sugar. 
When stiff enough to stand alone, save out enough to 
ice the top of the cake and mix the chopped almonds 
with the rest. Spread this between the layers and 
cover the top with the reserved portion. Split in two 
the dozen whole almonds and arrange in a garland in 
the icing while soft. 

Thin Icing 

One pound of sugar, whites of three eggs, three- 
fourths cupful of water. Cook sugar with the water 
until it drops clear from the spoon, then add to the 
unbeaten eggs, slowly; beat rapidly while pouring; 
continue to beat until cool. 

White Caramel Filling 

Boil three teacupfuls of granulated sugar with 
one and a half teacupfuls of water, until it will thread 
from the spoon. Have whites of two eggs well beaten. 
Pour the syrup into the eggs slowly, beating con- 
stantly. When nearly cold, stir in one teaspoonful of 
butter, which has been creamed, and one of extract 
of pineapple. Use other extracts if preferred. 



260 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

SHORT CAKE 

Strawberry Short Cake 

For the pastry : One pint of flour, sifted with one 
light teaspoonful of baking powder; quarter pound of 
lard, level teaspoonful salt, and cold water to make a 
moderately soft dough, mixing quickly with a spoon 
and working as little as possible. The lard and flour 
should be rubbed together until smooth before mixing. 
Divide the dough in two parts, roll out thin, and make 
in square or long pans. Remove carefully from the 
pans to cool. 

Or, make the pastry without baking powder as fol- 
lows : Sift half pound of flour with a level teaspoonful 
of salt ; add a quarter pound of lard, cutting it in and 
mixing it thoroughly with a spoon, then enough ice 
water to make a stiff dough. Roll out thin, fold and 
roll again. Divide and bake in two crusts, using a 
square or long pan, and letting the dough come up on 
the sides of the pans an inch, to form a rim on the 
crust. 

Cap, wash and sweeten to taste two quarts of ripe 
berries. Whip to a froth with a syllabub churn, one 
quart of cream sweetened with a teacupful of sugar, 
removing the whipped cream as it rises to a sieve over 
another vessel. 

When ready to serve, place a crust on a flat surface 
and spread with half the berries ; on top of this place 
the other crust, and spread with the rest of the berries ; 
cut into four inch squares; place each square on a 
dessert or tea plate and cover the top with a large 
spoonful of whipped cream. 

Strawberry Short Cake 

Make two pie crusts, not rolled as thin as for pies, 
however. Bake a light brown ; sweeten a quart of ber- 
ries; spread them on the crusts and stack. Make a 
meringue of the whites of two eggs, and add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Place in the stove and let brown. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 261 
Peach Short Cake 

Make just as one does strawberry short cake, using 
soft, clearstone peaches, peeled, chopped and sweetened 
an hour before using. 



TEA CAKES, MACAROONS, COOKIES, ETC. 

Good Tea Cakes 

21^ teacupfuls sugar 1 teacupful sweet milk 

% teacupful butter 5 heaping teacupfuls flour 

V2 teacupful lard 7 eggs 

Use nutmeg to taste. Two measures of baking 
powder (one heaping teaspoonful baking powder, to 
one quart of flour is a measure). Beat the eggs and 
sugar very light; add warmed butter and lard, milk 
and nutmeg, and pour into the flour, with which the 
baking powder has been sifted. Knead into a soft, 
smooth dough. 

Tea Cakes 

3 eggs 4 heaping pints flour 

2 teacupfuls sugar A pinch of salt 

1 teacupful butter or butter and lard mixed 

One teaspoonful (level) of soda, dissolved in two 
tablespoonfuls of sour milk. Flavor with nutmeg. 
Make a soft dough. 

Chocolate Cakes With Almonds 

3 eggs (whites) 2 oz. almonds (blanched 

2 ounces grated chocolate and pounded) 

1 oz. pulverized sugar A little powdered cinnamon 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then 
stir in lightly the chocolate, the almonds, the sugar 
and cinnamon. Drop the mixture in small cone shaped 
heaps on a buttered tin or thick sheet of paper, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



262 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Old Fashioned Ginger Bread 

2-3 teacupful butter 2 eggs 

2-3 teacupful sugar 1 tablespoonful ginger 

2-3 teacupful molasses 1 good teaspoonful soda ia 

2-3 teacupful sour milk V2 teacupful cold water 

1 teacupful chopped raisins (if liked) 
3 cupfuls flour 

Stir in the soda last ; a slow fire and close watching 

secures a good cake. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful of soda in 

2 cupfuls molasses Vz cupful water 

2 cupfuls butter 1 heaping tablespoonful 
Flour to make stiff dough ginger 

Roll the dough, cut and bake in a quick oven. 

Soft Ginger Snaps 

4 eggs (beaten separately) 1 tablespoonful ginger 
4 teacupfuls flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 teacupful butter 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 teacupful sugar powder 

1 teacupful molasses 

Beat the eggs separately, stir soda into the molas- 
ses, or use baking powder sifted into flour. 

Almond Macaroons, No. 1 

V2 lb shelled almonds 8 tablespoonfuls pulverized 

M lb butter sugar 

3 eggs (whites) 1 large tablespoonful mixed 
1 wineglassful rose water mace and cinnamon 

Blanch and beat the almonds the day before they 

are needed. Beat and sift the spice. Beat the eggs 

stiff; add the sugar by degrees; beat hard; add the 

spices, dissolved in rose water, then the almonds. If 

too soft, add a few more almonds. Make into small 

balls, flatten slightly, and bake on buttered paper, or 

in little crimped papers. To make these, use a round 

piece of white paper, four inches in diam.eter, and 

crimp the edges with a knife. Do not have the oven 

too hot. Place the cakes two inches apart, as they 

spread. Cocoanut may be substituted for almonds. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 263 
Almond Macaroons, No. 2 

2 eggs (whites) % K) sweet almonds (shelled) 

1 coffee cupful white sugar 

Blanch the almonds, and pound them to a paste; 
add the sugar and the well beaten whites of eggs. 
Work the mixture together with the back of a spoon. 
Then roll with the hands into balls the size of a nut- 
meg; flatten slightly, dust fine sugar over the top, and 
lay them on a piece of writing paper at least an inch 
apart. Bake in a warm oven a light brown. 

Chocolate may be substituted for the almonds. 

Delicious Almond Cake 

1 lb almonds, blanched and 6 eggs (whites) 

chopped fine 1 lemon (grated rmd) 

Mix all together until quite stiff; roll moderately 
thin, using as little flour as possible ; cut in the shape 
of stars, and bake in a very slow oven. 

Delicious Cookies 

1 cupful thick cream 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 heaping cupful sugar A little nutmeg 

1^ cupful melted butter Flour to make stiff dough 

1 egg 
Bake quick, but do not brown them too much. Add 
half a cupful of caraway seed if liked. 

Savory Cakes of Olden Times 

1 lb white sugar (powdered) 1 lb sifted flour 
1 lemon (grated rind and 2 tablespoonfuls coriander 
half the juice) seed 

8 eggs 

Beat the eggs to a froth separately ; then mix to- 
gether, add powdered sugar stirred in gradually. Beat 
the whole ten minutes, add the grated lemon rind and 
half the juice, the sifted flour and the coriander seed. 
Drop this mixture by the large spoonful, several inches 
apart, on buttered baking plates, sift white sugar over 
them and bake immediately in a quick, hot oven. These 
cakes make a delicious addition to the afternoon tea 
table. 



264 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Lemon Snaps 

2-3 cupful butter 1 coffee cup sugar 

V2 teaspoonful soda in 1 teaspoonful lemon flavor- 

1 tablespoonful warm water ing- 

Flour enoug^h to roll thin 

CruDers, No. 1 

3 pints sifted flour 1 heaping teacupful sugar 

1 scant teaspoonful salt 1 scant tablespoonful lard 

2 teacupfuls buttermilk 1 teaspoonful baking soda 

Crullers, No. 2 

4 eggs Flour enough to make fairly 
2^/^ cupfuls sugar stiff dough 

1 cupful sweet milk 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 tablespoonful butter powder 

V2 nutmeg 

Sift the baking powder and mix well with the flour. 

Use an ordinary biscuit cutter and a small tin box to 

cut the center. The secret is more in the frying than 

one would suppose. There must be plenty of good 

sweet lard in the pot. The lard must be smoking hot 

when you drop the cakes in, and kept at the same heat. 

Doughnuts 

3 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls good bak- 
V2 cupful sugar ing powder 

V2 cupful sweet milk Flour enough to make soft 

1 tablespoonful shortening batter 

Beat the eggs and sugar to a light cream ; then put 

in the shortening, milk, baking powder and flour to-/ 

gether. Have the lard boiling before putting in the 

doughnuts and keep it boiling all the time. 

Ginger Bread j 

1 tablespoonful butter V2 cupful molasses 

V2 cupful sugar 1 level teaspoonful baking 

M. cupful butter powder 

1 egg 1 teaspoonful ginger 

V2 cupful milk or cream 1 cupful huckleberries 

1^/^ cupful flour A pinch of salt 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 265 

Chocolate Blocks 

Make a croton sponge cake, bake an inch thick in 
square pans. Ice with chocolate over the top, and dry ; 
then with white icing ; partly dry, cut into diamonds or 
squares and dry thoroughly. This makes a very 
dainty cake. 

White Patty Pan Cakes 

Use white cake recipe, baking in patty pans ; when 
done, dip into a thin, hot icing, using a fork to hold 
the cakes. These are delicious. 

Small Nut Cakes 

Flour thoroughly one teacupful of chopped English 
walnuts or mixed nuts. Make a white or yellow cake 
batter; stir in walnuts and bake in patty pans. Dip 
into hot icing, holding the cake with a fork. 

Nut Cake 



6 


eggs 




1 


lb Enlgish walnuts 


V2 


lb butter 




2 


teacupfuls raisins 


1 


lb sugar 




1 


teaspoonful cinnamon 


1 


lb flour 




1 


teaspoonful allspice 


1 


teacupful 


sweet milk 


1 


nutmeg 



2 light teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Wine enough to cover the nuts. Bake in a deep 
pan. This cake may be baked in layers and put to- 
gether with plain icing or caramel. 

Peach Cake 

Make a good sponge cake batter; bake in four lay- 
ers of medium thickness. Slice two dozen soft 
peaches ; if there is any juice, drain on a sieve. Whip 
a pint of thick, sweet cream with a teacupful of sugar 
until stiff. Now on a layer of cake place a layer of 
peaches, then one of cream, and so on until the four 
layers are used. Ice at once with plain icing. Keep 
in a cool place and use the same day it is made. 



266 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Iced Coffee Cake 

Vz cupful butter 1 tablespoonful cream 

V2 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful baking 

3 eggs powder 

2 tablespoonfuls coffee ex- 1% cupfuls flour 
tract A pinch of salt 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly together, add 
eggs, well beaten, coffee extract, cream, and flour sifted 
with baking powder and salt. Beat for a minute, and 
turn into a greased and floured square cake tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Turn out 
and cool. 

Icing for Coffee Cake 
1% cupfuls sugar 2 teaspoonfuls coffee ex- 

1 tablespoonful milk tract 

Sift confectioners' sugar into a small saucepan, add 
coffee extract and milk, stir over the fire, and when 
it commences to get liquid pour it over the cake. 

Steamed Snowballs 

^/2 cupful butter Va teaspoonful salt 

1 level cupful (sugar) % cupful milk 

31/2 teaspoonfuls baking 1 teaspoonful orange extract 

powder 4 eggs (whites) 

2M cupfuls flour 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually while stirring 

constantly. Sift flour, baking powder and salt together 

and add to first mixture alternately with milk. 

extract, then beat up egg whites to a stiff froth, fold 

them into mixture, and beat well. Fill buttered cups 

two-thirds full, cover with greased papers and steam 

steadily for thirty-five minutes. Serve hot with hot 

marshmallow sauce. 

Hot Marshmallow Sauce 

20 marshmallows Flavor with sherry wine or 

1 cupful sugar fruit juice 

V2 cupful water 

Soften the marshmallows in a moderate oven but 

do not brown them.. Put sugar and water into a small 

saucepan and boil until syrup spins a thread when 

tested in cold water, or registers 218 degrees F., by 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 267 

candy thermometer. Add marshmallows and beat 
until mixture is smooth; then flavor to taste with 
sherry wine or fruit juice. Continue beating until in- 
gredients are well blended. Keep hot in a double 
boiler. If sauce seems too thick add boiling water drop 
by drop until of the right consistency. 

Currant Cake 

Make either a White or a Gold Cake batter; into 
this stir two teacupfuls of currants well dredged with 
flour. Bake in a moderate oven one hour and a half. 
If desired to make a change, one tablespoonf ul of mixed 
ground spices may be added. 

Currant Layer Cake 

Make a White Cake batter by recipe White Cake 
No. 1. Into one-third of this stir one teacupful of 
currants, well dredged with flour. Bake in three lay- 
ers, two plain and one with currants. Put together 
with white caramel filling. 

Banana Cake 

Make according to recipe for Peach Cake, substitut- 
ing bananas for peaches. 

Marshmallow Almond Cake 

Make a good white cake batter; bake in a deep 
pan. When cold, slice in three or four layers. Have 
ready a plain icing, a quarter of a pound of fresh 
marshmallows cut in half, and half a pound of almonds 
blanched and pounded. On the first layer of cake, 
place a layer of icing, one of marshmallows and a thin 
one of almonds. On the bottom of the next layer, put a 
thin layer of icing and then put in place. Continue 
this until all is used. Then ice on top and sides. The 
top may be decorated with whole blanched almonds. 
Chocolate marshmallows may be siubstituted for the 
plain. 



268 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Cherry Coffee Cake 

1 compressed yeast cake V2 teaspoonful salt 

1 coipful milk 2 eggs 

V2 cupful butter 1% cupfuls stoned cherries 

1 cupful sugar 5 cupfuls flour 

Scald the milk, add a tablespoonful of the sugar and 
the yeast cake, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of water 
or milk. Stir in a cupful of flour, cover and let stand 
until spongy — about an hour and a half. Then cream 
together the butter and sugar, stir in the eggs, v/ell 
beaten, and add this mixture to the sponge, along 
with the salt, remaining flour and the cherries very 
well drained. Beat thoroughly, pour into a small drip- 
ping-pan, which has been rubbed with butter, let 
rise until light, and bake forty-five minutes in a hot 
oven, 375 degrees F., reducing the heat for the last ten 
minutes, to dry out the loaf. This wiUl keep moist for 
days and is really rich enough to act as a cake. 

MarshmaMow Cake 

Make an Angel's Food Cake; bake in a deep pan. 
When cold, cut into three layers. Have ready a plain 
white icing, and a quarter of a pound of fresh marsh- 
mallows, each cut in half. Cover the first layer of 
cake with icing, then place a layer of marshmallows ; 
put a thin layer of icing on the bottom of the next 
layer and place on the marshmallows; continue this 
until all is used, then ice the top and sides. Delicious. 

Sweet Wafers 

1 teacupful sugar 2 teacupfuls sifted flour 

1 tablespoonful butter 1 teacupful sweet milk 

2 eggs 

Mix as for cake batter. Bake in hot, lightly 
greased wafer irons. 

Tea Cakes 

1 teacupful butter (Hialf 1% teaspoonfuls baking 

lard if butter is scarce) powder 

2 teacupfuls sugar Pinch of salt 

1 teacupful. sweet milk Flavor to taste 

6 teacupfuls unsifted flour 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 269 

Bon Bon Cake 

Make a Premium White Cake batter; bake in four 
layers. Have ready one pound of French bon-bons, in 
pink, green, yellow, white and chocolate, and a half 
pound of candied cherries. Make a plain icing and 
divide it into three parts. Tint one part with a table^ 
spoonful of melted chocolate; another part tint a very 
delicate pink with a few drops of cochineal, or fruit 
coloring. Leave the third part white. Cut the bon- 
bons in half. On the first layer of cake put a layer of 
chocolate icing, then a layer of green and pink bon- 
bons, placing a few cherries here and there. Now, on 
the bottom of the next layer of cake, put a layer of 
white icing and place it on the bon-bons. Next a layer 
of pink icing and then on this one of yellow, chocolate 
and green bon-bons, using the cherries as before ; now 
a layer of white icing on the bottom of the next layer 
of cake and that placed in position. On this, a layer 
of chocolate icing, then one of white, yellow and green 
bon-bons, and the cherries. On the bottom of the 
next layer the pink icing. The cake is now ready to 
be iced with plain icing. The top should be decorated 
with candied cherries at intervals. 

Marshmallow Roll 

Take six eggs, three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
cold water, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and one- 
half teaspoonful lemon extract. Beat the eggs sepa- 
rately. Mix the flour and baking powder, add the 
yolks, sugar and flavoring. Beat in the whites last. 
Spread in a shallow pan so it will be about one inch 
deep, when baked. Bake in a slow oven. When done 
cover with marshmallow mixture and roll. The marsh- 
mallows, half a pound, should be dissolved in half a 
cupful of water, by steaming in a double boiler. Mix 
into the melted marshmallows, before spreading on the 
cake, half a cupful of English walnuts chopped fine. 



270 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Ginger Wafers 

1 teacupful butter 4 t'eacupfuls sifted flour 

2 teacupfuls brown sugar 1 teaspoonful ground ginger 

1 teacupful sweet milk 

Warm the butter and sugar slightly and cream to- 
gether ; then add the milk, ginger and flour. The mix- 
ture makes a paste like thick cream. Spread a thin 
coating of butter on the baking pans, let it get quite 
cold, then spread on it the paste no thicker than a 
visiting card. Bake in a moderate oven, and when 
done cut immediately into squares of four or five 
inches. A thimble will serve to cut a hole in the corner 
of each wafer, through which a narrow ribbon is run, 
tying together a dozen or so of these dainties. 

Peanut Cookies 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 
V2 cupful butter 2 cupfuls flour 

2 ^ggs 1 qt. peanuts (shelled and 
4 tablespoonfuls of milk ground) 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar 

Mix and drop from spoon into tin. 

Crullers 

2 cupfuls rich cream V2 teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls sugar % grated nutmeg 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 3V2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

der 5 eggs 

Use flour enough to roll as soft as you can handle it. 
Fry in boiling lard, and when slightly warm roll in 
powdered sugar. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

1 tab-lespoonful butter 1 level teaspoonful baking 

V2 cupful sugar powder 

1 egg V2 teaspoonful salt 

1^-^ cupfuls oatmeal Flavor witih vanilla 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 271 

DESSERTS 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS 

Watermelon Ice 

Take the heart of a large, sweet, ripe melon, put 
into a chopping tray and chop rather fine, then add 
to it one teacupful of powdered sugar and turn into 
the freezer. Pack the latter, turn the crank five 
minutes until the melon is icy cold and in the condition 
of soft snow. Serve in glases. 

Strawberry Ice 

Pulp and strain one quart of ripe strawberries. 
Take one pound of sugar and dissolve in a little water 
and boil until it will spin a thread from the spoon. Add 
to the strawberry juice and freeze. When frozen, line 
a half gallon mould, half inch thick with the frozen 
cream and fill center of mould with a Charlotte Russe, 
or any desired filling. Cover the mould with white 
paper, press top on carefully, and tie a buttered strip of 
cloth around, to keep salt water from penetrating, and 
then cover with salt and ice for several hours, putting 
more salt than for ordinary freezing. Decorate the 
dish with green strawberry leaves and fresh berries 
with stems attached. A beautiful dish. 

Bavarian Ice Cream 

One quart of buttermilk, 1 pint of cream. Mix, 
flavor, sweeten to taste and freeze. 

Vanilla Cream 

To two quarts of cream add a third of a box of 
gelatine, dissolved, one quart of fresh milk, three tea- 
cupfuls of white sugar, tablespoonful of vanilla, and if 
liked half a cupful of sherry wine. 



272 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Bisque Cream 

Dissolve a third of a box of gelatine in two quarts 
of fresh, rich sweet milk, three cupfuls of white sugar, 
and one quart of heavy cream, half cupful of sherry 
wine, tablespoonful each lemon and vanilla extract. 
Put in the freezer and when nearly hard, add two 
dozen almond macaroons, broken in small pieces, and 
a quarter of a pound of candy mashed fine. 

Pineapple Ice Cream 

Grate one medium sized pineapple, and boil five 
minutes with one cupful of white sugar. Set aside to 
cool. Pour into a packed freezer two quarts of cream 
and one quart of fresh sweet milk that has had two 
and a half cupfuls of white sugar dissolved in it. 
Freeze until nearly hard, and then add the pineapple, 
that has been prepared. Freeze until hard. Serve 
with whipped creair, flavored with lemon. 

Ice Cream for Invalids 

One cup of cream, heated ; one well beaten egg, one 
heaping teaspoonful of sugar. Stir the egg and sugar 
together into the hot cream. When cold, freeze hard. 

Banana Ice Cream 

One quart of fresh sweet cream and six bananas. 
Sweeten and flavor the milk and cream, using one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Mash the bananas with one tea- 
cupful of sugar; stir all together and freeze at once. 

Ice Cream, No. 1 

Two quarts of fresh milk, one quart of sweet cream 
— if cream is not plentiful, use a pint instead of a 
quart — and make it up with milk. Soak two table- 
spoonfuls of gelatine in a little cold water half an hour ; 
then dissolve in a teacupful of boiling water; when 
cool, stir into the cream. Sweeten to taste and flavor 
with vanilla. Freeze until hard. This is delicious. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 273 
Ice Cream, No. 2 

Have a bottle of liquid rennet. To two quarts of 
fresh sweet milk, sweetened and flavored to taste, put 
two tablespoonfuls of rennet. Now put this in the 
freezer, and as soon as it is cold, add one quart of fla- 
vored cream — whipped — and freeze. If liked, add one 
pound of almonds, one pound of English walnuts, 
beaten or chopped fine. 

Ice Cream, No. 3 

Whip one quart of sweet, thick cream with one tea- 
cupful of sugar. Flavor with half a teaspoonful each 
of lemon and vanilla. Freeze ; serve with fresh straw- 
berries, pineapple or soft peaches. 

Buttermilk Ice Cream 

Equal quantitiri of fresh b^i^termilk (which has 
had no water added to it m churning) and sweet milk, 
sweetened to taste and flavored with vanilla. Freeze 
until hard. 

Condensed Milk Ice Cream 

One can of condensed milk, thinned to proper con- 
sistency with sweet cream. Sweeten and flavor to 
taste. Just after it begins to freeze, add one quart 
of fresh, crushed strawberries. 

Sherbet 

Mix the juice of six lemons with two teacupfuls of 
sugar, and let stand half an hour. Stir into this three 
pints of water and one can of pineapple. Freeze hard 

Tutti Frutti 

One quart of rich cream, sweetened to taste, and 
flavored with a teaspoonful of vanilla. Put into the 
freezer; let it begin to freeze, then add one pint of 
almonds, citron and candied fruits, chopped fine; one 
quarter of a teacupful of orange juice (or in summer, 
juice of one lemon). Freeze and put away to harden. 



274 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Milk Sherbet 

One gallon of sweet milk, one can of grated pine- 
apple. Boil the milk and sweeten to taste ; flavor with 
vanilla. Add the pineapple just after the milk begins 
to freeze. Any other fruit may be used instead of 
pineapple and for those who like the flavor, the juice 
of two lemons (sweetened) added with the pineapple 
makes a change. 

Chocolate Moss 

One quart of cream, well beaten (sweetened and fla- 
vered). Melt a quarter of a cake of sweet chocolate; 
stir into this the syllabub, and freeze (without stirring) 
packing away and freezing silently. Turn out of the 
mould, slice and serve immediately. 

Frozen Strawberries 

Stem a quart of ripe strawberries ; add a pound of 
sugar, let stand one hour; mash, pour over a quart of 
ice water, stir until well mixed, turn into a freezer 
and freeze. 

Frozen Peaches 

Pare, stone and cut into slices, nice freestone 
peaches. Add sugar, as in serving for dessert, only 
use twice as much. Put into an ice cream freezer and 
when nearly frozen, add a quart of sweet milk and 
freeze. 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 

Cover half a box of gelatine with a teacupful of 
cold water, and let soak for twenty minutes. Mash a 
quart of ripe strawberries and press through a sieve; 
add a cupful of sugar to the juice. Stir the gelatine 
over boiling water until dissolved, strain it into the 
strawberry juice, set on ice, and stir until it thickens; 
add a pint of whipped cream; mix gently. Pour in a 
mould and set in a cool place to harden. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 275 
Cream de Menthe Sherbet 

Make lemon sherbet. Serve each glass with one 
tablespoonf ul of creame de menthe. 

Cafe Parfait, No. 1 

To each quart of vanilla ice cream, add one teacupful 
of strong coffee. Freeze, and serve with whipped 
cream. 

Cafe Parfait, No. 2 

Beat yolks of nine eggs, three cupfuls of milk and 
twelve tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Cook until 
thick, and add one cupful of strong coffee. Beat in a 
pint of cream, w*hipped, and pack in ice for several! 
hours. Serve with cream (whipped) and a maraschino 
cherry. 

Pineapple Mousse 

1 can pineapple 2 eggs (yolks) 

% cupful sugar 1 pt. cream (whipped stiff) 

Strain juice from the pineapple, pour over the sugar 
and bring to a boil. Pour this syrup over the beaten 
yolks and return to a double boiler and cook until it 
will coat the spoon. Let get cold. Then mix with 
the pineapple and whipped cream. Pour into a freezer 
or mold and pack in ice and salt for three or four hours. 

All mousses should be turned during the freezing 
to prevent a syrup forming at the bottom. The turn- 
ing allows the syrup to drip and mix with the cream. 

Maple Mousse 

1 pt. cream 1 cupful maple syinip 

4 eggs (yolks) 

Put the syrup in a sauce pan; stir in well beaten 

yolks until the eggs thicken the mixture. Take from 

the fire and stand the pan in ice water; beat with egg 

beater until light and cold, then mix with whipped 

cream, put in mold or paper cases and pack in ice. 



276 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Angd Parfait 

1 cupful sugar 1 qt. cream, whipped stiff 

% cupful water Flavor with fruit or vanilla 

4 eggs (whites) 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. Pour 
over the beaten whites and beat until cold; add the 
whipped cream and flavoring ; pack in ice and salt same 
as a mousse for about four hours. If fruit is added, 
crush and sweeten and add when ready to pack in ice. 

Mousse 

One quart of heavy cream sweetened with one tea- 
cupful of sugar, and flavored with half teaspoonful of 
vanilla and two tablespoonfuls of Madeira wine. Whip 
until very stiff. Whites of two eggs beaten very stiff, 
and whipped into the cream. Pour in square or fancy 
moulds and pack in ice and salt. Let stand three hours. 
Slice and serve, garnished with maiden hair fern and 
any delicately colored flower. The mousse may be 
tinted with any of the fruit colorings. 

Orange Water Ice 

Juice of four lemons, juice of twelve oranges, four 
teacupfuls of sugar, two-thirds of a gallon of cold 
water, and one pint of boiling water, poured over pulp 
and skins, and allowed to stand until cold, when it is 
strained into the balance of the mixture. Stir together 
and freeze rapidly. 

Peach Cream, No. 1 

To two quarts of cream and one of fresh sweet milk, 
add three cupfuls of sugar; place this in a packed 
freezer, and when nearly hard pour in one quart of 
soft peaches, which have been thoroughly mashed and 
sweetened with one teacupful of sugar. The peaches 
must be peeled and mashed very fine, mash through a 
vegetable masher if convenient. Freeze until very 
hard. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 277 

Peach Cream, No. 2 

Whip one pint of sweetened cream to a stiff froth, 
laying on a sieve. Pare a dozen and a half fine, soft 
peaches and mash fine. (Sweeten a little if very acid.) 
Take half a box of gelatin which has been soaked an 
hour in a cupful of water in a warm place near the 
stove, and add the cream. Stir it thoroughly to make 
it smooth, and when it is about to harden add the 
peaches, stirring lightly in, until it is well mixed, then 
put into a mould and set on ice, or in some cool place. 
A pretty garnish is to arrange halves or quarters of 
fresh peaches around it. 

Strawberry Parfait 

Whip a quart of cream to a froth ; add half a pint 
of strawberry juice and a cupful of sugar; turn 
carefully into an ice cream mould, press the lid down 
tightly, pack in salt and ice and let freeze three hours. 

Peach Sherbet 

Twelve large, or eighteen medium sized clearseed 
peaches, thoroughly ripe, two lemons, four teacupfuls 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of gelatine, pinch of salt, 
two pints of cold water, twenty pounds of ice, and 
one pinch of ice cream salt. 

Put the gelatin to soak in cold water to cover. 
Peel and seed the peaches and mash through a vege- 
table masher; stir into them the sugar; squeeze the 
juice of the lemon into this, and add the water, and 
the pinch of salt. Melt the gelatin with a little boiling 
water and strain it in. Crush the ice, mix with the 
ice cream salt, and pack the freezer. Now turn in 
the sherbet and turn slowly. When it begins to freeze 
turn rapidly, keeping this up until the mixture is a 
light, fluffy mass. If this is properly done the sherbet 
is like frappe — not compact like ordinary sherbet. 



278 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

PUNCHES 

Orange Punch, Frozen 

Fourteen even sized oranges, three lemons, one ripe 
pineapple, or can of sliced pineapple, half pound of 
Tokay or Malaga grapes, four teacupfuls of sugar, 
one quart of boiling water, and one of cold water. One 
pint bottle of Maraschino cherries, one pint of heavy 
cream, a pinch of salt, one pint of fresh sweet milk, 
twenty pounds of ice, and two pounds of ice cream salt. 

Carefully peel and slice the pineapple, then cut it 
into dice, being careful to save the juice ; put this in the 
refrigerator until ready for use. Wash twelve 
oranges, then with a small sharp knife, cut them in 
half, and cut the meat from the skins very carefully, 
as the skins are to be used to serve the punch in, and 
the two pieces which belong together must be kept to- 
gether. The easiest way to remove the meat is to slip 
the knife around the edge of the fruit, then with a 
sharp edged teaspoon cut it out at the center. When 
this has been done, wrap the skins in a towel and put 
them in the refrigerator. Cut the orange meat into 
very small pieces with scissors, rejecting the seed and 
any tough part. Wash and squeeze the lemons and the 
two oranges; put the skins in a small bowl and pour 
over them the quart of boiling water. Let stand half 
an hour. Peel, and cut in half the grapes, removing 
the seed. Strain the juice from the cherries into a 
cup and cut the cherries into halves. 

Into a large earthenware bowl, strain the water 
from the lemon skins, etc. Add three and a half tea- 
cupfuls of sugar and the quart of cold water. Drain 
into it the juice from the orange meat, the pineapple, 
th)e grapes and all of that from the cherries. 

Have the ice crushed and mixed with the salt, and 
this packed around the freezer. Turn the punch into 
the freezer; when it begins to freeze, turn into it thie 
orange meat, the pineapple, the grapes and the cherries. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 279 

Free23e until hard. This may be made several hours 
before ready to use. Just before serving turn the 
cream and sweet milk, which have been kept in the 
refrigerator, into an earthenware gallon bowl, which 
has been rinsed with cold water. Stir into the cream 
the remaining half teacupful of sugar, and the pinch 
of salt, and whip to a stiff froth with a syllabub churn, 
removing the cream to another vessel as it rises. 

To serve the punch: Have a bread and butter 
plate set in a breakfast size plate. Fill the cavity in 
one orange skin with the punch and place it on the 
bread and butter plate just as though it were an orange 
nearly cut in half. Where it has apparently fallen 
apart, showing what seems to be the meat of a fresh 
orange, put in a heaping teaspoonf ul of whipped cream. 
On one side of the breakfast plate place a small iced 
heart-shaped cake — angel food preferably — and on the 
other side a graceful spray of long stemmed violets, 
with five or six green leaves, slipping a small afternoon 
teaspoon just under the edge of the violets. 

Fruit Punch 

For one hundred persons : Two dozen oranges, two 
dozen lemons, two fresh, ripe pineapples, or two cans of 
grated pineapple, four pounds of Tokay grapes, two 
quart bottles of Maraschino cherries, or the same of 
sugared cherries, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, 
half teaspoonf ul of vanilla, one gallon of boiling water, 
two gallons of cold water, fifty pounds of ice, six quarts 
of Appolinaris water, and eight or ten pounds of gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Wash the fresh fruit carefully. Roll and cut the 
oranges and the lemons in half, halve the grapes and 
remove the seed, squeeze the juice from the oranges 
and lemons, placing the skins in a large earthenware 
bowl; when the juice has been all extracted, pour 
the boiling water over the skins, and set aside until 
cold. Peel the pineapples and break the meat apart 



280 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

with a fork ; if canned pineapple be used have the cans 
opened and ready. With a vegetable masher squeeze 
the juice from the grapes and pineapples, rejecting the 
meat when the juice is thoroughly extracted. Pour 
this juice with that of the oranges and lemons; strain 
into this the water which has been standing on the 
fruit skins. Stir in the sugar and add one gallon of 
the cold water and as much of the other gallon allowed 
as the acidity of the fruit will warrant. Drain the 
juice from the berries and stir it in the punch ; measure 
the extract and stir in. Have twenty pounds of ice 
washed and broken and add to the mixture. 

Place the punch bowl (which may be of china, cut- 
glass, or pressed glass) on a medium-sized table in an 
alcove in the hall or library, having a pretty Batten- 
burg or hemstitched linen square under the bowl and 
two dozen small punch cups of plain glass arranged 
around it. Have ready a punch (or soup) ladle with 
which to serve the punch. Have cut a square of ice 
which will fit down nicely in the punch bowl. Just 
before the guests begin to arrive place the square of 
ice in the bowl, and send in in a pitcher enough punch 
to fill the bowl, adding to it just as it goes in, two 
bottles of Appolinaris water and a teacupful of cherries. 
The punch must be replenished as often as necessary 
in this way. The table should be placed near a door 
by which a servant may enter to attend to this. It is 
customary to have friends of the person entertaining 
to assist in serving punch; but a servant should be 
delegated to attend especially to replenishing the bowl 
and any other needs that may arise. If desired, on a 
tabouret just behind the punch table, may be placed a 
vessel in which to rinse the cups, the water being 
changed when necessary. The pitcher used in replen- 
ishing should be of silver, glass or pretty china. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 281 

CHARLOTTES 

Fruit Charlotte 
Peel and remove the eyes from a small, thoroughly 
ripe pineapple, and break them apart in small pieces, 
using a fork for the purpose. Peel and remove the 
seed from eight finely flavored, ripe, clearseed peaches ; 
breaking the meat of these apart with a fork also. 
Sift over the fruit a half teacupful of powdered sugar. 
Make a white charlotte, using one pint of cream, and 
turn into a mould. Just as it congeals drop the fruit 
in evenly, pushing it down in place as more is added. 
Smooth over the top, put on the cover and pack in 
ice and salt. It will be ready for use in two hours. 
Serve with very cold whipped cream, sweetened, but 
not flavored, and place a few Maraschino cherries on 
top. The charlotte may be packed in a freezer if a 
regular mould is not convenient. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 1 

One quart of rich cream, not quite three-fourths 
pound of sugar, half package of gelatin, four eggs. 
Whip the cream to a stiff froth ; add the whites of eggs 
well beaten. Pour over the gelatin a cupful of colji 
water, place on the stove and let dissolve, stirring all 
the time; when dissolved, stir in it yolks and sugar 
(already well beaten), flavor with vanilla, mix cream 
and whites quickly, and pour into moulds. If liked, 
add a wine glass of wine to the yolks and sugar. This 
is really congealed eggnog. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 2 

Whip three quarts of cream to a stiff froth. Soak 
two ounces of gelatin in enough cold water to cover it, 
for one hour; then dissolve in boiling milk, about one 
and a half pints. Beat twelve eggs separately, add 
two cupfuls of sugar to yolks and two to the cream. 
Mix beaten yolks and sugar to the boiling milk and 
gelatine ; stir until it begins to congeal, then add beaten 
cream and a half pint of wine. 



282 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

White Charlotte 

One quart of heavy cream, one quart of sweet milk, 
whites of eight eggs, two teacupfuls of sugar, one-half 
ounce of gelatin, one-half teacupful of sherry wine, 
and a teaspoonful each of vanilla and lemon. 

Soak the gelatin in half teacupful of cold water 
half an hour, then set the vessel containing the gelatin 
on the cap of the stove or range, and when it is thor- 
oughly dissolved, set aside to cool. 

Add the wine, extract and one cupful of sugar to 
the milk and cream, and chum as for syllabub, remov- 
ing the whipped cream to another vessel as it rises. 
Beat the whites of the egg to a stiff froth and add to 
them the other cupful of sugar. When the gelatin is 
nearly congealed mix the eggs and whipped cream, 
then add the gelatin; whip just enough to mix, pour in 
moulds and keep in a cool place until ready to serve. 

White Charlotte Russe 

One pint of sweet cream, and one pint of sweet 
milk. Put these together, and whip to a froth. Mean- 
while, dissolve one-third of a box of gelatine in a 
teacupful of cold water, letting it stand half an hour; 
then putting it on the stove to melt. Beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth ; sweeten, and flavor the 
cream to taste. Stir in the gelatine ; beat until it begins 
to thicken, or congeal, then whip in the whites of the 
eggs. Turn into a mould. Serve plain or with cus- 
tard sauce. Grapes, pineapples, oranges or bananas 
may be put in just before the charlotte congeals. 

White Charlotte 

To half a box of gelatine, add one cupful of cold 
water ; let stand an hour or more, then put on the fire 
to dissolve. Take one pint of cold cream, sweeten to 
taste and flavor with vanilla ; whip till perfectly thick ; 
to this add the gelatine, a little more than milk warm ; 
mix thoroughly; lastly, add the well beaten whites of 
four eggs. Then pour in dishes to congeal. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 283 

Almond Charlotte 

Make a charlotte as above, and just as it begins to 
congeal, stir in one pint of blanched and pounded 
almonds. 

Strawberry Charlotte 

1 cupful boiling water 1 lemon (juice) 

4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 3 eggs (whites) 
V2 cupful sugar 1-3 cupful cold water 

Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add sugar gradu- 
ally as if making meringue. Dissolve cornstarch in 
cold water ; add the boiling water and cook one minute 
or until clear. Pour the boiling cornstarch water over 
the beaten whites. Add lemon juice. Put into indi- 
vidual or in one large mold; set aside to get cold and 
firm. Take out of mold and serve with strawberry 
sauce or plain crushed berries, sweetening the berries. 



PUDDINGS 

Nesselrode Pudding 

Remove the shells from two dozen chestnuts; put 
in a saucepan with a little water ; then peel off the skins 
and put chestnuts in a sauce pan on the fire, with 
one pint of water and one pound of sugar. Boil until 
very soft, then press through a sieve; then put in a 
sauce pan with one pint of cream; in this mix the 
yolks of four eggs. Put this through a sieve, and add 
one ounce of stoned raisins, one ounce of currants, one 
teacupful of sherry wine, and boil. When cold, freeze. 
When frozen cut four candied apricots, four candied 
greengages, one-half ounce of citron cut into small 
pieces; three ounces of candied cherries. Mix theon 
thoroughly with the pudding, which is put into a 
mould, a thick piece of paper on top, and cover securely 
shut down upon it. Put some cracked ice, mixed with 
two handfuls of salt into a bowl, in the middle of which 
put the mould, covering it entirely with salt. Let it 
remain two hours ; then turn out of mould, first dipping 
in warm water. 



284 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Pudding 

Three eggs, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch, one 
teacupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls sherry, four table^- 
spoonfuls grated chocolate, one-half pint of milk. 

Beat yolks of eggs with the sugar, and com starch, 
add the melted chocolate, cherry, then the whites stiffly 
beaten. Add the milk. Boil until it thickens, pour 
into moulds and serve with whipped cream. 

'^ ' ' Queen of Trifles Pudding 

Make a boiled custard, using five eggs beaten stiff 
with one cupful of sugar and one quart of fresh sweet 
milk. Put milk in a double boiler and when it begins 
to boil add the beaten eggs and sugar and stir until 
it begins to thicken, then let it cool. While the custard 
is cooling, separate half pound of lady fingers, and line 
a pudding dish or glass dish, then break into it half 
pound of almond macaroons; add one cupful of dried 
figs chopped, one-quarter pound of crystallized cherries 
chopped fine, one cupful of blanched almonds chopped 
fine, putting it in layers ; then pour over this one cupful 
of sherry wine. When the custard is nearly cold, 
flavor with vanilla. Pour over and put in a cold place. 
Just before serving, flavor and sweeten one pint of 
cream, whip and put over the top of the pudding. 

Plain Pudding With Wine Sauce 

Eight heaping tablespoonfuls of flour sifted with 
one teaspoonf ul of baking powder, and one of salt. Mix 
with water to make a stiff batter, and add one cupful of 
seeded raisins. Turn into a mould and steam one hour. 

Sauce: Cream thoroughly one cupful of butter, 
then add while beating two teacupfuls of sugar; grate 
in one small nutmeg, and stir in one tablespoonful of 
sifted flour, and half a teacupful of wine. Just before 
serving add half a teacupful of boiling water, set sauce 
on range and let come to a boil. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 285 
Plum Pudding 

Two tumblers of sifted bread crumbs, one of flour, 
one-half pound of stoned raisins, same of currants, 
picked and dried ; a large piece of citron, cut in small 
strips, half a pound of beef suet (butter will do, using 
less) ; ten eggs and spice to taste. Beat the eggs well 
with one tumbler of hot milk; add this, when it has 
cooled, to the eggs, sugar and flour. Mix it all well ; 
'have the fruit well floured, or it will all sink to the 
bottom. The pudding requires six hours of constant 
boiling. After putting it in the bag, lay it in a pot of 
boiling water and turn several times, suspending it. 
Some persons boil without suspending, putting a plate 
at the bottom of the pot, to prevent the bag scorching. 
It requires frequent turning when thus boiled. Serve 
with a rich sauce. 

Sweet Potato Pudding 

Three cupf uls of grated potatoes, five eggs, one and 
a half cupfuls of sugar, two of sweet milk, and one 
of syrup or molasses, one tablespoonful of butter, and 
a half teaspoonful of mixed ground spices — mace, cin- 
namon and allspice. If no syrup is used, then two cup- 
fuls of sugar must be used. When the custard first 
boils up, while it is baking, stir well. Bake three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Chocolate Nut Pudding 

2 eggs (beaten separately) 2 squares chocolate 
1 cupful sugar 1 lump butter 

V2 cupful flour 1 cupful of nuts 

V2 teaspoonful baking powder A pinch of salt 

Pour in a large tin and bake in hot oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Southern Plum Pudding 

Two hours steady boiling is enough to cook this to 
perfection, although it will not hurt by being kept 
longer over the fire. The size given is for a company 
of twenty persons, and if any is left, it is always better 



286 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

the second day, sliced and stewed in sauce. Seed 
enough raisins to fill a quart measure heaping full; 
prepare one pint of dried currants, a half pint of pre- 
served citron cut into small pieces, and a pint of peeled 
apples chopped fine ; add a pound of butter, creamed, or 
the same quantity of fresh beef suet nicely shredded 
and a heaping quart of stale lightbread crumbs. If it 
is more convenient to measure than to weigh, one pint 
of butter or suet is the right quantity. Beat up light 
and separately the whites and yolks of eight eggs ; mix 
them in a large bowl or tray, with one teaspoonful of 
salt, without which ingredient the best made plum 
pudding will be insipid. Add a half pint cup of sugar 
and one nutmeg grated very fine. Have ready a light 
quart of sifted flour; with some of it flour your fruit 
thoroughly. Proceed to mix as follows: Have your 
well beaten eggs ready in the proper receptacle; add 
to them a pint of milk, then stir in the floured fruit, 
creamed butter and bread crumbs, lastly putting in just 
enough sifted flour to make the mass stick together in 
a lump. This will probably consume about the quart 
provided. Next dip your pudding cloth of stoutest 
muslin or jeans in boiling hot water and dredge over 
the inside a thick coating of flour. Put your pudding 
into it, tie up tightjly, but at the same time leave room 
for it to swell. Have plenty of boiling water in a roomy 
pot, which must be filled up again with the same if it 
boils away too much. By inverting a plate at the 
bottom of your pot you will be sure that the pudding 
can not stick to the bottom and burn, and if you have a 
strong cloth tied with trusty twine, water can not get 
in — the two worst mishaps that can befall the experi- 
enced cook. 

Cottage Pudding 

2 teacupfuls sifted flour 1 rounding tablespoonful 

1 teacupful sugar butter or lard 

2 eggs 1 heaping: teaspoonful 
V2 cupful of sweet milk baking powder 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 287 

Mix sugar and lard or butter until light ; beat in the 

eggs one at a time, then add the milk, flour and baking 

powder. Bake in a pudding dish or pan and serve hot 

with a sauce. 

Sauce for Cottage Pudding 

1 cupful sugar Vs teaspoonful of flour 

1 cupful water 1 lemon (peel) 

Boil the sugar and water with lemon peel and add 
flour mixed with cold water. Let it come to a boil. 
Serve over the slices of pudding. 

Nut Pudding 

Q eggs 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

11/2 cupfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful flour 

3 cupfuls chopped nuts 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

Beat eggs separately. Add sugar to yolks. Add 
nuts to beaten whites. Mix lightly and add baking 
powder and flour together. Bake quickly in large cake 
tins. Put together with whipped cream. 

Plum Pudding 

Four eggs, two teacupfuls of sugar, three and a, 
half teacupfuls of flour, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of milk, one pound of raisins, one of currants, two 
tablespoonfuls of cloves and allspice, and two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Beat the yolks of eggs and 
one cupful of sugar until light ; cream the other sugar 
and the butter together and mix, adding the milk and 
flour; lastly the beaten whites and baking powder. 
When well mixed, add the fruit and spices ; boil four 
hours in a double boiler, and serve with "Hard Sauce." 

Fig Pudding 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatin in cold water. 
Ten minutes later, add one-half pint of boiling water. 
Chop one pound of figs fine and boil soft with three- 
quarters pound of sugar and three-quarters cupful of 
cold water. Take off fire and add gelatin. When it 
begins to thicken put in one-half pound of cherries cut 
in pieces, and one pound English walnuts, blanched and 
chopped fine. Mould. Serve with whipped cream. 



288 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Nut Pudding 

2 eggs (beaten) V2 teaspoonful baking powder 

1 capful sugar 2 squares chocolate 

V2 cupful flour 1 lump of melted butter 

A pinch of salt 1 cup broken nuts 

Mix the nuts with the batter. Pour in large tin and 

bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Delmonico Pudding 

Three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, the yolks of 
five eggs, six tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat the eggs 
light; then add the sugar and beat again until very 
light. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk ; mix 
all together and stir into one quart of sweet milk just 
as it is about to boil, having added a little salt. Stir 
until it thickens well, pour into a pudding dish and 
place in the oven ; let it remain until it will bear icing. 
Placing over the top a layer of canned peaches, or 
other fruit (it improves to mix the syrup of the fruit 
with the custard part) ; beat the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, with two tablespoonfuls of sugar to each 
egg. Spread this on the custard, put into the oven 
and let it brown evenly. This is a very delicate 
pudding. 

Kiss Pudding 

Boil one quart of sweet milk and water, mixed ; beat 
the yolks of four eggs light, with a cupful of sugar. 
Stir in four tablespoonfuls of com starch and a pinch 
of salt. Stir this into the boiling milk. Place in the 
oven and bake until firm; then spread with jelly or 
fruit, and on top of the jelly add a meringue of the 
whites of eggs beaten to a froth, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Set in oven to brown. 

Pudding 

One cupful of sweet milk, one pint of flour, one egg^ 
one cupful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake quickly and 
serv^ei'hot with sauce. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 289 

Rice Pudding 

Beat three eggs separately ; add a teacupf ul of sugar 
to the yolks; then stir in a teacupf ul of boiled rice, 
then a pint of sweet milk. Flavor with vanilla and 
nutmeg to taste. Stir in the whites, drop in evenly 
a teacupf ul of stoned and floured raisins, and bake 
twenty or thirty minutes. If preferred, the whites 
may be used for a meringue. 

Queen of Puddings 

Boil together three teacupf uls of sweet milk ; pour 
this over a coffee-cupful of bread or oyster cracker 
crumbs ; beat together a teacupf ul of sugar and yolks 
of three eggs, then stir into the milk and bread. Bake 
in an earthen dish, until firm and lightly browned; 
then spread with apple jelly and a meringue of the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, adding a table- 
spoonful of sugar for each egg. 

Buttermilk Pudding 

Seven eggs beaten separately ; one quart of butter- 
milk, one pint of flour, a teaspoonf ul of salt, a teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little warm water. Mix the 
flour with the yellow of the eggs, then stir in the but- 
termilk, a little at a time, until all is in. Then add the 
whites beaten to a very stiff froth ; then add the salt 
and soda last. Bake in a very quick oven. If the 
oven is right, and the ingredients are well prepared, 
the pudding should cook in ten minutes. This is deli- 
cious. 

Sauce: Two cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of 
butter, and a cupful of water, and let it boil five min- 
utes ; then flavor with a teaspoonf ul of vanilla. 

Cocoanut Pudding 

Seven eggs, beat yolks and two cupfuls of sugar 
well; add two tablespoonfuls melted butter and one 
grated cocoanut, and lastly, the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth. 



290 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Feather Pudding 

Half teacupful of butter, two teacupfuls of sugar, 
three teacupfuls of flour, one teacupful of sweet milk, 
fhree eggs, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. 

Poor Man's Pudding 

Three eggs, ome cupful of sugar, one of flour, one 
teaspoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar. Bake 
in thin pans. 

Sauce: One teacupful of sugar, a small lump of 
butter stirred well together with the sugar, and two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, nutmeg to taste. 

Boston Pudding 

Four eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, three of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and one of soda. 
Mix the soda in half a cupful of sweet or sour milk, 
sift the cream of tartar in the flour. 

Serve with old-fashioned "pap-sauce." One cupful 
of boiling water, stir in two tablespoonfuls of sifted 
flour. Let it cook about ten minutes, then add one-half 
cupful of butter and two cupfuls of sugar, and one 
cupful of wine; flavor. 

Cocoanut Pudding 

Six eggs, beaten separately ; add one pound of sugar 
to the yolks, a quarter of a pound of butter, one cupful 
of sweet milk, or cream, one grated cocoanut ; grate in 
two crackers to add firmness ; lastly add the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Grease an earthen 
baking dish, pour in and bake. This may be eaten 
With a crust, but is better without. 

Sunderland Pudding 

iSix eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, one 
pint of sweet milk and a pinch of salt. Beat the yolks 
well; mix them smoothly with the flour, then add the 
milk ; lastly, whip the whites to a stiif froth, beat them 
in and bake immediately. Eat with liquid sauce, fla- 
vored with vanilla. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 291 

Chocolate Pudding: 

Boil one quart of milk, add a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one of sugar, and three ounces of grated chocolate. 
When cool, add the yolks of four eggs. Pour in a 
pudding dish lined with stale cake. Bake, cover with 
meringue, and brown. 

Angels' Pudding 

Two ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, two of 
butter, a pint of cream and the whites of three eggs. 
Bake in patty-pans, and serve without sauce. 

Corn Starch Pudding 

Into one pint of boiling water stir three table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch dissolved in a little water. 
Add a pinch of salt, sugar to taste, and the whites of 
three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Season with lemon. 
Serve with custard made of the yolks of the eggs. 

Date Pudding 

Soften and stone one pound of dates. Proceed as 
for prune pudding. Eat hot, with vanilla cream sauce, 
or rich cream and sugar. 

Cherry and Tapioca Pudding 

Soak one cupful of tapioca over night in cold water. 
Place on the fire with one pint of boiling water. Stone 
one and one-half pounds of nice cherries ; stir them into 
the boiling tapioca, and sweeten to taste. Pour into a 
dish and stand away to cool. Serve very cold with 
sugar and cream. Raisins or plums may be substituted 
for cherries. 

Almond Pudding 

Make a sponge cake, bake in a long pan, have the 
cake about two inches thick. Blanch a pound of al- 
monds, and pound them in rose-water, mix with four 
grated crackers, six eggs, a half pound of butter, a 
pound of sugar, and a wine-glassful of grape jelly. 
Pour on the cake, set in the oven twenty minutes, cover 
with meringue flavored with extract of almond. 



292 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Lemon Pudding 

Squeeze the juice of four large lemons into a cupful 
and a half of sugar. Beat them thoroughly together, 
stir in the whites of eight eggs which have been beaten 
to a stiff froth, and bake the mixture in a pudding dish 
in a moderate oven. (The secret of success lies in 
keeping the heat moderate.) When the top begins to 
stiffen stir the pudding and repeat this several times 
during the process of baking. Serve with cream. 

Citron Pudding 

Beat the yolks of ten eggs with a pound of sugar 
and a half pound of butter. Cut a pound of citron in 
pieces, stir in. Line a pudding dish with stale cake. 
Pour in the mixture and bake. Eat with sauce. 

Prune Pudding 

Let three-quarters of a pound of French prunes 
stand in scalding water to cover, till soft ; drain, stone, 
spread on plate to cool, then roll in flour. Sift one- 
half teacupful of flour with one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder, add by teaspoonf uls, one-half cupful of 
cold water. Stir until smooth. Beat three eggs to a 
froth, add one pint of sweet milk, stir this into the 
batter, beat two minutes, add prunes, one at a time, 
stirring steadily; pour into a buttered baking dish, 
place in steamer over a kettle full of boiling water, 
steam one and a half hours. Do not use more flour 
than given. Do not allow water to stop boiling, nor 
lift the cover to peep. Serve hot with vanilla cream 
sauce, or with rich cream and sugar. 



PIES 

Plain Pie Crust 

One and a half pints of sifted flour, one teacupful 
of lard, level teaspoonful of salt and one heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, sifted in the flour. Rub the 
shortening thoroughly into the flour. Make a stiff 
dough with cold water. Handle just as little as pos- 
sible. This will make four crusts. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 293 

Chopped Pastry 

1 teaspoonful baking powder 1 cupful butter 

2 cupfuls flour 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful sugar 5 tablespoonfuls cold water 

1/4 teaspoonful salt Juice of half a lemon 

Sift the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt to- 
gether into a basin, add butter, and chop it into flour 
mixture until well blended. Beat up eggs, add strained 
lemon juice and w^ater, and gradually mix into dry in- 
gredients, chopping, not stirring, all the time. Roll 
out to a long, even strip, fold in three by bringing one 
end over the middle and lapping the other end over. 
Put it away in a cool place for ten minutes. This is 
called giving the pastry a turn. Roll and fold the 
pastry again and roll, cut and use as required. 

Fine Puff Paste 

Into one quart of sifted flour mix two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one teaspoonful of salt; then sift 
again. Measure out one teacupf ul each of lard and but- 
ter. Rub into the flour until a smooth paste, the tea- 
cupful of lard; put in just enough ice water — say half 
a cupful — containing a beaten white of an eggy to mix 
a very stiff dough. Roll out into a very thin sheet, 
spread with one-fourth of the butter (very cold), 
sprinkle over with a little flour, roll up closely, double 
the ends to the center, flatten and re-roll ; then spread 
again with butter. Repeat this till all the butter is 
used. Put in an earthen dish, cover with a cloth, and 
set in a cold place — in the refrigerator in summer. 
Make an hour before ready to use. 

Lemon Custard Pie 

1 cupful sugar 2 lemons (juice) 

1^/^ cupfuls water 2 eggs (yolks) 

^2 cupful corn starch Meringue of whites of eggs 

1/4 lemon (grated rind) 
Mix in a saucepan, beating thoroughly. Pour into 

pie plate prepared as for custard pie. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven twenty-five minutes. Cover with meringue 
made with whites of eggs. 



294 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Lemon Pie, Without Milk 

For one pie : Two eggs, one teacupf ul of rice stock, 
one-half cupful sugar, one lemon, two tablespoonf uls of 
flour, one tablespoonful sugar for meringue. 

Beat yolks and sugar, add flour, juice of lemon and 
pour into a pan with the boiling rice water. When 
nearly stiff, add the rind (grated) of one-half lemon. 
Beat the whites and one tablespoonful of sugar, and 
spread over custard that has been poured over the 
cooked pie crust. Brown quickly in a hot oven. 

Butterscotch Pie 

l^^ cupfuls boiling water 1^/^ tablespoonfuls butter 

1% cupfuls brown sugar Vs teaspoonful salt 

1% tablespoonfuls granulated V2 teaspoonful vanilla 

sugar 3 eggs 

4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch Pastry 

Caramelize the granulated sugar and add the boil- 
ing water and the brown sugar. Let this boil thor- 
oughly, then thicken it with the salt and cornstarch, 
mixed with barely enough cold water to moisten. Stir 
constantly until the mixture thickens, then add the 
butter and pour the mixture into the egg yolks, which 
have been slightly beaten. Pour into a cooked pastry 
shell, cover with a meringue, made from the whites of 
two eggs and a tablespoonful of sugar, and bake ten 
minutes in a slow oven. 

North Carolina Peach Custard Pie 

% cupful sugar Enough sliced peaches to cover 

% cupful milk bottom of pie pan 

2 eggs (yolks) Use whites of eggs for 

^/4 teaspoonful cinnamon meringue 

Line pie plate with custard pie pastry. Cover the 
bottom thickly with sliced peaches. Place sugar, milk 
and egg yolks and cinnamon in mixing bowl. Beat to 
thoroughly mix ; pour over the peaches and dust them 
well with sifted flour. Bake in a slow oven until firm. 

Raspberries and plums may be used in place of 
peaches. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 295 
Custard Pie 

The most important point in the custard pie is the 
crust. The pastry should be light and delicate. 

The ingredients for pastry are: 
2 cupfuls flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

V2 teaspoonful salt der 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Sift to mix and then rub in one-half cup of shorten- 
ing ; mix to a dough with one-half cupful of ice water. 
Wrap the pastry in wax or parchment paper and place 
on ice to chill thoroughly for two hours. Pastry made 
the day before will be delightfully light and flaky. 

This amount of pastry will be sufficient for two pies. 

Divide the pastry into two parts. Roll out one 
on a lightly floured board. Fold carefully in half and 
then in quarters; place in pie plate and open. Tl*im 
the edges and roll trimmings into a long, narrow strip. 
Cut into strips three-quarters inch wide and brush the 
edge of the pastry on the pie plate with water and 
add this strip as a reinforcement to build up the edge. 

Brush the pastry in the bottom of the pie plate 
with melted shortening thoroughly coating the surface. 
Then pour in any prepared custard. Reserve one table- 
spoonful of the custard to brush the pastry around the 
«dges. Bake in slow oven until the custard is firm in 
the center. 

Apple Meringue Pie 

Pare, slice thin and stew juicy apples with about 
a teacupful of cold water in the bottom of a kettle to 
prevent burning. When done, mas'h smoothly, sweeten 
to taste and flavor slightly with lemon juice. Cover 
the pie plates with delicate rich paste and fill with the 
apples, leaving one-quarter of an inch at the top. Bake 
by a steady, moderate fire until brown, then fill with a 
meringue made from the whites of two eggs and one 
tablespoonf ul of sugar. Return to the oven and brown. 
Serve hot, with cheese. 



296 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Pastry for Short Cake and Chicken Pie 

To a pint and a half of flour use one'-quarter of a 
pound of lard, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a light 
spoonful of yeast powder. 

Sift the yeast powder with the salt and flour, then 
rub the lard in until there are no lumps. Then mix 
into a medium stiif dough with cold water, using a 
spoon to mix it. It requires very little working. Place 
in the refrigerator, if in summer, or out in the cold 
air, if in winter, for an hour before using. Roll thin. 

Patty Shells 

Roll out puff paste very thin, and cut in the shape 
desired — either round, square or 'heart shaped, using 
cutters which come for the purpose. There are two 
cutters in each set ; one two or two and a half inches in 
diameter, and a small one about an inch in diameter. 
For heart shaped patties for twelve, cut twenty-four 
pieces with the large cutter ; from twelve of these cut 
out the center evenly and smoothly, dip the cutters in 
hot water, working quickly. 

Rub the edges of the large heart with a little white 
of egg and put on the heart rings, press lightly together 
along the edge. With the small cutter cut out small 
hearts of stale light bread to prevent the bottom crusts 
rising and filling the cavity. Bake in a pan lined with 
buttered paper. When done, remove the stale bread 
and any soft paste that may be under it, being careful 
not to break the crusts, however, as they will not then 
hold the soft mixtures which are served in them. The 
small hearts cut from the centers are baked separately 
on buttered paper, and when the patties are filled are 
placed on top for covers. 

Vol-Au-Vent 

The puff paste used for these should be rolled, 
folded and rolled four or five times — making a very 
light paste. Cut in any shape liked; a large oval is 
considered the most desirable. The outline may be 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 297 

marked with an oval meat dish and cut quickly with a 
knife dipped in boiling water. Cut five of these; use 
one for the foundation ; cut the centers from the other 
four, using a dish two inches smaller in diamieter for 
the outHne. This will leave four rings, two inches 
high, a little larger than the Vol-au^Vent; and place 
one of the rings and press lightly in place; again wet 
the edge with the white of egg and put on another 
ring; proceed thus until all the rings are in place, one 
above the other. Make a hoop of stiff brown paper two 
or three inches high, a little larger than the Vol-au- 
Vent, and place it around to prevent burning. Bake 
forty minutes in a moderately quick oven. Fill with 
creamed meats, mushrooms, or charlotte, etc. 

Rissoles 

Roll puff paste thin and cut round or square. In 
the center of half of the pieces put a spoonful of 
creamed chicken, fish, or sweetbreads, or any fruit 
chopped, sweetened or seasoned. Wet the edges with 
white of egg, cover with other pieces, cut a slit through 
the top with a knife, and bake in a quick oven. 

Jelly Meringue 

1 egg (white) V2 glass jelly 

Pinch of salt 

Put egg white into a bowl, add the jelly. With a 
good egg whip beat all together and continue until a 
very thick meringue is made. The whipping will mix 
jelly with egg until it is well blended and unnoticed. A 
^flavoring may be added if jelly is sweet, and a bit of 
coloring adds to the looks when using with straw- 
berries. 



298 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Puff Paste 
One pint of pastry flour, one teacupful of fresh 
butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, half teacupful of ice 
water. Wash the butter in water with the chill taken 
off; divide in three parts and place on ice. Sift the 
flour and salt tog^ether. When the butter is cold, mix 
one part of it with the flour, either cutting it with a 
knife or mixing lightly and quickly with the hand. 
When this is done, mix slowly with the ice water, using 
a spoon, to a rather stiff dough. Sprinkle the biscuit 
board with sifted flour, and turn out the dough; sift 
flour on top, and roll out half an inch thick. On a 
little sifted flour roll thin the second piece of butter, 
and place along the center of the dough, folding the 
dough over it until the edges meet; now fold over the 
edge and beat to an even thickness with the rolling 
pin. Roll out and proceed as before with the third 
piece of butter. When this has been done, fold the 
dough again, and roll thin. If in the process the dough 
becomes sticky or soft, roll in a napkin and place in a 
pan on ice. In a few minutes it will roll easily. Use 
as little flour in rolling as possible. Roll lightly and 
quickly. The dough should show no streaks of butter 
when ready for use, and may be placed on ice to harden 
until time for rising. 

Mince Pie 

Chop one pound of suet, one pound of raisins, one 
pound of tenderloin of beef or pork, boil until done; 
one pound of citron, one pound of apples that have 
been peeled and cored. Add one pound of currants, 
one pound of sugar, half an ounce of mace, half an 
ounce of allspice, a tablespoonful of cloves and one four- 
inch stick of cinnamon. Pound the spice fine and add 
one grated nutmeg and one quart of cider. 

Bake in puff paste in a deep pan, two inches deep 
at least. Line the pan with pastry and put on top 
crust. Serve hot. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 299 

Deep Apple Pie 

Fill a deep dish with tart apples, sliced and sprinkle 
liberally with sugar and nutmeg, and little bits of but- 
ter. Butter the upper edges of the dish and lay over 
the apples a thin sheet of paste, cutting three slits in 
the center. Pour into one of these openings half a 
cupful of hot water and bake about an hour in a hot 
oven. Serve hot with cheese. 

Cocoanut Pie 

One good sized cocoanut grated fine, one cupful of 
white powdered sugar, two eggs, some nutmeg, two cup- 
fuls of new milk, one tablespoonful of good fresh but- 
ter; bake on a single crust. This makes two pies of. 
ordinary size. 

Plum Pie 

To three cupfuls of pitted plums, add one and a 
half cupfuls of sugar and a little water, and simmer 
until tender. Line your pie plate with rich crust, put 
in the fruit, cover, wetting the edges to keep the fluid 
from running out, and bake in a quick oven. 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 1 

One quart of fine grained, sweet, nicely stewed 
pumpkin, rubbed perfectly smooth. To this add half 
a pound of rich, sweet cream. Flavor with nutmeg. 
Line a pan with rich pastry, fill with pumpkin and put 
on a top crust. Pierce with a fork to let the air escape, 
or the pastry may blister. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven. 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 2 

Pare and cut the pumpkin into pieces about one 
inch square, put these into a porcelain lined sauce pan 
with just enough water to prevent scorching. Stew 
slowly until tender, about half an hour, then press 
through a colander. Take a pint and a half of this 
pumpkin, add a level tablespoonful of butter and a pinch 
of salt. Mix and stand aside until cold. When cold 



300 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

add a pint and a half of new milk, half teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground ginger, 
one cupful of sugar, and six well beaten eggs. Mix 
and bake in deep pie dishes lined with light paste. 
This quantity will make three large pies. 

Delicious Lemon Pies 

Three eggs, well beaten separately ; one tablespoon- 
f ul of butter, one teacupf ul of sugar beaten to a cream ; 
then mix yolks and juice of two lemons; add last, half 
the whites;' with the other half, make a meringue, 
spread on top and brown. 

Glaze for Piecrust 

To prevent any juicy mixture soaking into the 
crust, beat an egg well, and with a brush or bit of 
cloth, wet the crust of the pie with the beaten egg 
just before you put in the pie mixture. It also gives 
gloss and beauty to biscuit, rusk and ginger-cake, by 
first adding a little sugar to the egg. 



CUSTARDS 

Cup Custards 

Mix one and one-half pints of new milk, one cupful 
of sweet cream, four well beaten eggs, one cupful of 
white sugar, one teaspoonful extract of lemon, orange 
or vanilla. Fill the custard cups two-thirds full and 
place them in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water, 
or in a baking pan containing hot water, in an oven. 
When the custard is set it is done. If one likes, the 
top of the custard may be covered with the whites of 
two eggs beaten to a froth, sweetened and flavored. 

Sweet Potato Custard 

Four eggs, five ounces of butter, seven of sugar, 
six of boiled potato, mashed in a glass of sweet milk. 
Beat yolks, sugar and butter together; add potatoes 
and lastly the whites well beaten. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 301 

Boiled Custard 

One quart of sweet milk, one-fourth of a pound of 
sugar, and three or four eggs. Beat the eggs very 
light with half the sugar ; boil the milk with the other 
half of the sugar and pour over the eggs, stirring all 
the while ; pour back into the vessel and let come to a 
boil once. Flavor to taste. For ice cream, add one- 
fourth of a pound more sugar to a gallon of milk. 

Apple Custards 

Peel and slice six medium sized apples; boil until 
tender, with one cupful of water, then rub through a 
sieve, or mash very fine, then add four eggs which 
have been well beaten, with two teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar; add last the juice of one lemon with some of 
the rind, grated. The eggs may be separated and the 
whites used for a meringue, if liked. Line two pie pans 
with good pastry, roll thin, pour in the custard and 
bake in a moderate oven, a nice brown. 

Syrup Custards 

For each custard to be made boil one cupful of 
syrup until very thick; remove from the fire and let 
cool. Beat two eggs separately, adding one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar to the yolks. Mix all together and add one 
teaspoonf ul of butter. Line a pie plate with some good 
pastry, pour in the custard and bake without a top 
crust. 

Citron Custard 

Make a puff paste; roll thin and line a pie plate. 
For the custard: Beat six eggs with six tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, until very light; add a tablespoonful of 
butter. Slice the citron in thin strips, and place on 
the pastry. Pour the custard over; put in the oven 
and bake a nice brown. After the pastry is put in the 
pan, place on the back of the stove to dry until ready 
to pour in the custard. This quantity will make two 
custards. 



302 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Lemon Custards 

Five eggs (leaving four whites for meringue), two 
teacupfuls of sugar, juice and half the grated rind of 
one lemon, a teaspoonful of flour, and one teacupful 
of sweet milk. Beat eggs and sugar until very light, 
then add the sifted flour. When well mixed add the 
lemon; mix this thoroughly, then stir in the milk and 
bake at once. When set and a light brown, cover with 
the meringue, put in the oven and brown. This is suf- 
ficient for two custards. 

For cocoanut custards, leave out the lemon and sub- 
stitute one teacupful of freshly grated cocoanut. Cus- 
tards made by this recipe are deliciously light and 
spongy. 

Lemon Custard, No. 1 

Pastry: Three-quarters of a pound of flour, quar- 
ter of a pound of lard, heaping tablespoonful of baking 
powder, level teaspoonful of salt, cold water enough to 
make a moderately stiff dough, handling just as little 
as possible. Roll very thin and bake in three tins, just 
letting them color delicate brown. 

Custard for three pans : Nine eggs, three cupf uls 
of very rich milk, or cream, three lemons, two teacup- 
fuls of sugar in the custard, and a half teacupful in the 
meringue; grated rinds of two of the lemons, and a 
heaping teaspoonful of flour. 

Beat the yolks and two whites with two cupf uls 
of the sugar, then sift the flour ; now stir in the milk, 
and just before turning in to bake add the juice and 
grated rind of the lemons. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Lemon Custard, No. 2 

Three eggs, one teacupful of sweet milk, one and a 
half cupfuls of sugar, teaspoonful of butter and one of 
corn starch or flour. Beat eggs and sugar until light, 
add butter, flour and milk, and the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon. Bake in jelly tins lined with puff 
paste. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 303 

Cocoanut Custards 

For two custards, take four eggs, two teacupfuls of 
grated cocoanut, one cupful of sweet milk, one and a 
half cupf uls of sugar. Pour the milk over the cocoanut 
and place on the fire to warm. Beat eggs and sugar 
until very light, mix well and bake with a bottom 
crust. Use the whites of the eggs for a meringue if 
desired. 

Peach Custard 

% cupful milk 2 eggs (yolks) 

V2 cupful sugar H teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 tablespoonfuls corn starch 1 cupful peaches (crushed) 

Place the peaches in a mixing bowl. Now place in 
a saucepan the milk, sugar and cornstarch. Bring to a 
boil and cook two minutes and then pour very slowly, 
— beating hard all the time — over the peaches in the 
mixing bowl. Add the yolks of the eggs, and the cin- 
namon. Beat again, then pour into pie plate lined with 
pastry used in above recipe. Bake in a slow oven. Use 
whites of eggs for meringue. 

Jelly Custard 

Beat five eggs, leaving out whites of two, add one 
cupful of sugar, one cupful of jely — apple, or quince 
— three-quarters of a cupful of warmed butter to 
m.ake it beat nicely. Bake in a paste; make meringue 
of the two whites, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
pour it over the custard when firm, and brown very 
lightly. 

Pineapple Custard 

Mix well one teacupful of sugar and four eggs, add 
one quart of sweet milk; set on the fire to thicken, 
stirring constantly ; then cool. Add one can of grated 
pineapple. Serve with whipped cream. 

Lemon Custard 

Six eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, and two lemons. 



304 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

TARTS 

Cream Tarts 

Make a rich puff paste; cut small, bake and fill 
with whipped cream, on top of which drop a little cur- 
rant jelly. 

Almond Tarts 
Beat to a cream the yolks of three eggs, and a 
half teacupful of sugar; add half a pound of shelled 
almonds, pounded; put in tart pans, lined with paste, 
and bake ten minutes. 

Cocoanut Tarts 

Dissolve a teacupful of sugar in a teacupful of 
water ; add a pound of grated cocoanut and boil. When 
cool, add the well beaten yolks of three eggs, and the 
white of one ; beat all together and pour into tart pans 
lined with puff paste. Bake five minutes. 

Lemon Tarts 

Grate one lemon, mix with a teaspoonful of melted 
butter, two well beaten eggs, and a teacupful of sugar. 
Melt over the fire. When cool, fill tart pans lined with 
puff paste. Set in oven for three or four minutes. 

Apple Tarts 

Boil very tender four large tart apples ; strain, beat 
smooth, and add the yolks of three eggs, juice and 
grated rind of a lemon, one tablespoonful of butter, 
and one cupful of sugar. Beat all together ; line pans 
with puff paste, turn in mixture, cook five minutes. 
Make a meringue of the whites and some sugar; spread 
on them and brown. 

Orange Tarts 

Make a pastry and line patty pans. Put a teaspoon- 
ful of orange marmalade in each. Cream some sugar 
and butter, add one egg, well beaten, add grated rind 
and juice of half an orange, add one-fourth cupful of 
flour. Mix and put in patty pans. Bake fifteen min- 
utes. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 305 

OTHER DESSERTS 

Ambrosia 

Peel and chip off in small pieces with a sharp knife 
one dozen oranges, pare and cut in small pieces one 
fresh pineapple, or use a can of sliced pineapple. 
Grate one cocoanut. Place in deep dish or bowl (the 
one in which the ambrosia is to be served) a layer of 
the orange and then one of cocoanut, next one of pine- 
apple, then one of sugar. Repeat this until the dish 
is full; let the last layer be of cocoanut and sugar. 
Pour over all the milk of the cocoanut and serve. 

Stuffed Apple, With Whipped Cream 

Select twelve even sized acid apples. Cut a slice 
from the blossom end of each and with a small knife 
remove the core and as much of the meat as possible ; 
cut the latter in small cubes and mix with a teacupful 
of grated bread crumbs, two of sugar, a pinch of salt, 
a tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of whole 
allspice and a little chipped rind of lemon. Fill the 
cavities with this mixture, put on the top a few dry 
bread crumbs and a small piece of butter, place in a 
pan with a teacupful of hot water and bake in a rather 
quick oven. Serve hot or cold with whipped cream 
sweetened. 

Puffet 

Take two cupfuls of sifted flour, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, one tablespoonful butter or lard, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and one cupful of sweet milk. 
Bake quickly. 

Arrowroot Jelly 

One teacupful of boiling water; wet two teaspoon- 
fuls of Bermuda arrowroot with a little water and 
stir into the boiling water, continuing until it is clear, 
letting it boil all the time ; to this add one teaspoonf ul 
of lemon juice and pour into a mould. Serve when 
cold with powdered sugar and cream. 



306 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Peach Whip, With Sponge Cake 

Make just as one does apple float, using instead of 
apples, ripe clear-seed peaches peeled and mashed 
through a vegetable masher. Serve on a small slice 
of sponge cake moistened with a teaspoonful of sheirry 
or port wine, and in which has been stuck Jordan 
almonds blanched and split. On top of each plate put 
a spoonful of whipped cream. 

Rice Cream 

Quarter of a pound of whole rice well boiled in milk 
and put in a colander to drain and cool. Mix with one 
gill of good cream whisked to a froth, and a wine glass 
of Madeira, and serve with powdered sugar. 

Orange Fritters 

Make a batter of one teacupful of flour, two eggs, 
half a level teaspoonful of salt, and sweet milk enough 
to make it the consistency of cream. Peel six oranges, 
slice them and mix with the batter. Fry in hot lard 
to a delicate brown. Serve with powdered sugar and 
sherry wine. 

Fruit Salad 

One very ripe pineapple, pared and pulled apart 
with a fork ; six bananas peeled and sliced ; teacupful of 
brandied cherries, stoned; one pound of white grapes, 
peeled and seed removed; one quart of strawberries, 
capped; one grape fruit peeled, the white skin care- 
fully removed, and the meat broken in small pieces; 
two or three guavas, peeled and sliced thin, two tea- 
cupfuls of granulated sugar; half tumbler of French 
brandy. 

Half an hour before serving turn the brandy over 
the sugar and let stand. When ready to serve pour 
sugar and brandy over the fruit, toss lightly together, 
and serve with whipped cream. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 307 

Almond Cream 

Into one pint of boiling milk (half and half) stir 
three tablespoonfuls of tapioca, dissolved in a little 
water; add sugar to taste, yolks of three eggs and 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. Season with vanilla. 

Omelet Souffle 

Separate the whites from the yolks of six eggs. 
Add to the yolks two tablespoonfuls of pulverized 
sugar and a little lemon juice, beating them well to- 
gether. Whip the whites until they stand alone, when 
they must be mixed with the rest. Put a small piece 
of butter into the frying pan, let it melt upon a slow 
fire, then add the omelet, taking care that it does not 
burn; turn it out upon a dessert dish, glaze by strew- 
ing powdered sugar over it ; then put it into the oven ; 
when it has risen, glaze it again and serve it. This 
is considered one of the most delicious of all desserts 
by connoisseurs. 

Date Dessert 

Seed and chop one cupful of dates, one cupful of 
walnut meats ; mix together two eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, one cupful of syrup, and one teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Add nuts and dates. Bake in bis- 
cuit pan in a moderate oven. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Peach Cobbler 

Peel and stone enough peaches to fill a pudding dish, 
place on top several small pieces of butter, add a cupful 
of sugar and cover with a light puff paste and bake. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Egg Cream 

Beat one egg light in a glass with a teaspoonful 
of sugar and a little nutmeg; then fill it with sweet 
cream or new milk. If desirable, add a tables poonful 
of French brandy. 



308 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Cornucopias 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder; beat thoroughly. Drop one 
tablespoonful on a round tin and bake in a moderate 
oven. When a delicate brown take out, and while hot 
lap the edges together in form of a cornucopia and 
hold in shape until cool. Fill them when cold with 
whipped cream. This recipe makes twelve. 

Bananas and Cream 

An especially nice way to serve bananas is to cut 
them in thin, round slices; pour over them whipped 
cream, unflavored. 

Strawberry Tapioca 

Wash a cupful of tapioca and put to soak in cold 
water over night. In the morning pour over a pint of 
boiling water, and set on back of the stove to simmer 
gently until the tapioca is perfectly clear. Stem a 
quart of strawberries and stir into the boiling tapioca 
with a pint of sugar. Take from the fire, turn into a 
glass dish, and set on ice. Serve very cold with sugar 
and cream. 

Strawberries With Whipped Cream 

Stem ripe, fresh strawberries, place a layer in the 
bottom of a large dish; sprinkle with sugar; put an- 
other layer of berries and sugar. Whip a pint of 
cream with the whites of two eggs and a teacupful of 
sugar; put over the strawberries, and set on ice for 
half an hour. 

Strawberries for Breakfast 

Stem ripe strawberries, cover with sugar and the 
juice of a half dozen oranges. Let stand one hour, 
sprinkle with pounded ice and serve. 

Strawberry Pyramid 

Crush a pint of ripe strawberries, mix with a pint 
of sugar; beat the whites of four eggs and add. Beat 
all together until very stiff and arrange in a pyramid. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 309 
Orange Cup 

Take one dozen large oranges ; hold them with the 
stem up and quarter and peel half way down ; turn the 
peel back, and remove the meat carefully with a tea- 
spoon. Make three teacupfuls of lemon gelatin (using 
only one lemon) ; just before it congeals, add quickly 
a teacupful of Malaga grapes, cut in half and seeded, 
and two cupfuls of orange meat or juice, and one 
banana chopped fine. Pour the mixture immediately 
into the orange hulls, filling nearly to where they are 
cut, and let congeal. Dissolve over the fire a teaspoon- 
ful of gelatin in a very little water; whip or chum to a 
stiff froth two-thirds of a pint of sweetened cream, 
then beat in three bananas mashed to a smooth paste, 
then add the gelatine. Just as it begins to congeal, 
fill the orange hulls as full as possible, draw the quar- 
ters together, fasten with straws at the points. Put in 
a cool place. When ready to serve, remove the straws, 
pull back the points, place on a doily and serve. This 
simulates the whole orange and is delicious. 

German Puffs 

Eight eggs, one glass of sweet milk, one cupful of 
sifted flour, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. Beat the yolks very fight, then 
add the flour and milk, then the butter, last the whites 
beaten very stiff. Bake in well greased pie plates. 
When done, butter each one, and stack as layer cake. 
A little grated cheese between each layer is well for 
those who Hke cheese. Have hot for breakfast. 

Lemon Gelatine 

Pour one pint of cold water over a box of gelatine, 
and let it stand for half an hour; take the juice of 
three lemons and one grated rind, stir into three pints 
of boiling water, and pour over the gelatine; sweeten 
to taste. Flavor with vanilla or wine, and strain 
through a jelly bag into a mould. Set aside to congeal. 



310 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Meringue 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with slices of 
stale cake, dipped in milk. Stem a quart of straw- 
berries, and put over; sprinkle freely with sugar and 
set in the stove until a syrup is formed. Take out, 
and spread with meringue made of the beaten whites 
of three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Set 
back in the oven one minute. Serve very cold with 
whipped cream. 

Apple Float 

Stew apples until tender; rub through a sieve; 
sweeten to taste. Whip until light, and for six large 
apples, have the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Whip these into the apples, and serve with 
sponge cake and whipped cream. 

Figs and Cream 

Peel the figs and slice, place in a dish in which 
they are to be served. Sprinkle with sugar, and pour 
over them thin cream, slightly sweetened. Two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar will be enough for the figs and cream 
for six persons. 

Syllabub 

One quart of cream, half pound of sugar, tumblerful 
of good wine, or flavor with vanilla. Mix all together, 
whip in the whites of the eggs. Turn into a mould. 
Serve in thin tumblers. 

Prune Jelly 

Soak a pound of prunes in a quart of water three 
hours. Drain them and strain the water in which you 
soaked them. Put it on the stove with a pound of 
sugar and let it boil half an hour. Remove the stones 
from the prunes, and put them into the boiling syrup, 
and boil it up again. Soak half a box of gelatin in a 
little cold water; dissolve and add to the prunes, and 
set them in a cold place to harden. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 311 
Fruit Gelatin 

Make lemon gelatin; before it congeals, add any 
fruit desired. One pint of bananas, sliced, or grapes 
cut in half, and seed removed, or orange meat, grated 
pineapple, etc. Sweeten to taste. Preserved fruit 
may be used. 

Ribbon Jelly 

Ribbon jelly is made by pouring different colored 
lemon gelatin, one over the others in layers. Yellow is 
made from lemons and orange ; red from currants ; dark 
colors from dark berries; green from a little spinach 
juice added to any light jelly; and crimson by using a 
little cochineal. Each layer must be very hard before 
the next is poured in. After all has become hard, 
turn out of a mould into a glass stand, and serve in 
slices ; cut at the table. Whole fruit, such as cherries, 
strawberries, slices of pineapples, etc., can be used in 
it if one chooses ; it is very delicious served with cream, 
the whole being just taken off the ice, and a more 
ornamental dish could not be put upon the table. 

Wine Gelatin 

V2 box gelatin 1 cupful sherry wine 

V2 cupful cold water 3 table spoonfuls lemon 

1 cupful boiling water 3 tablespoonfuls orange juice 

1 cupful sugar 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash, drain, cover with cold water, let soak several 
hours over night. Stew in this water; add sugar to 
taste. Fine served cold. 

Stewed Apricots 

Soak half a pound of apricots over night, in three 
cupfuls of cold water. In the morning drain them 
and put the water on the range with two cupfuls of 
sugar. Let it boil until it is thick; add the apricots 
and boil up. Remove from the fire immediately. 



312 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sliced Pineapple 

Cut the ends of a pineapple and cut it in slices 
about half an inch thick. Remove the outer covering 
from each slice, taking care to cut out all the eyes. 
With a silver knife cut it into triangular pieces, cutting 
out the core. Sprinkle it thickly with sugar and let 
it stand on ice for an hour before serving. 

Cream Puffs 

One pint of boiling water, half a pound of butter, 
half a pound of flour, eight eggs. Put the butter in 
the boiling water, and when thoroughly melted, add 
the flour, stir in quickly and allow it to boil about half 
a minute. Set aside to cool ; add yolks beaten lightly, 
and last, the whites. Drop on buttered paper, and 
bake quickly. Make a thin custard and when cold, fill 
puffs. 

Escalloped Apples 
Pare, slice and stew until tender, six large apples. 
Mash and sweeten to taste; flavor with allspice and 
lemon. Have ready a pint of bread crumbs, and a 
teaspoonful of butter; butter an earthen baking dish, 
stick the bread crumbs to the sides, and put a layer in 
the bottom, then a layer of apple, then small lumps 
of butter; then apples again, and so on until the dish 
is full. Have crumbs on top. Bake fifteen minutes 
and serve hot. 

Fruit Salad 

Peel, slice and seed six oranges ; peel and slice six 
bananas ; have ready one can of grated pineapple ; cap 
and wash a quart of strawberries. Grate one cocoa- 
nut; two cupfuls of sugar; whip one quart of sweet 
cream. 

Place the ingredients in layers in a glass dish in the 
order named; then pour over the whole two wine 
glasses of sherry. Garnish with strawberries. Leave 
off the wine and flavor the cream with lemon and 
vanilla, if preferred. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 313 
Boiled Apple Dumpling 

Prepare your paste. Cut into squares, and fill as 
for baked dumplings, chopping fine the apples that 
they may be cooked more rapidly. Put each dumpling 
into a bag or cloth and tie, leaving room for it to 
swell. Drop the bag into boiling water, and boil 
steadily for an hour. Serve the dumpling hot, with 
sauce. 

Banana Salad 

Split bananas in quarters, place on lettuce leaves, 
sprinkle with nut kernels chopped, and serve with 
French dressing. 

Frozen Salad 

One quart of chopped pineapple and one can of white 
cherries. Mix with one cupful of oil mayonnaise, pack 
in ice and salt, and let stand until frozen. 

Fruit Salad in Peach Skins 

Twelve large Elberta peaches, carefully selected for 
their beauty, three oranges, three sweet pears, quarter 
of a pound of Jordan almonds, half teacupful of cream, 
one teacupful of sweet milk, half teacupful of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of sherry, three drops of vanilla ex- 
tract, and three of lemon; one teacupful of cooked 
mayonnaise, twelve nice sprigs four or five inches long 
of peach tree foliage. 

Blanch and chip fine the almonds. Peel and cut into 
dice the oranges, rejecting the seed and all tough parts. 
Peel and cut into dice the pears, and mix with the 
almonds and orange meat. 

Now, with a pocket knife, very carefully cut a 
round hole at the blossom end of each peach, and slip 
a sharp-pointed teaspoon down around the seed and re- 
move the latter, being very careful not to break the 
peach skin, or spoil the appearance of the exterior by 
getting it wet. When the seeds have been removed, 
cut from them the caps and save to put back when 



314 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

the skins have been filled. Scrape out with a sharp 
spoon as much of the meat as possible; cut this into 
small pieces and mix with the other fruit — orange, 
pear, etc. 

Turn the cream and milk into a bowl, sweeten with 
the half teacupful of sugar, and flavor with the vanilla, 
lemon and sherry; whip to a very stiff froth with a 
syllabub churn, removing the whipped cream to a sieve, 
over another vessel, as it forms. Whip this with a 
fork until quite thick. Have the mayonnaise ready 
in a shallow dish and quickly fold into it the thick, 
whipped cream. It will take up a pint of the latter. 

Now, over the chipped fruit sprinkle a teaspoonful 
of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt, and mix lightly 
with a fork; then mix with it as much of the cream 
mayonnaise as it will take, being careful not to have it 
too soft. Fill the peach skins with this salad, put on 
the tops, if it has been possible to save them, and 
place by a sprig of foliage, on a fancy salad plate, the 
opening down, slipping a fork under the foliage to one 
side. 

Apples, Baked with Raisins 

Select one dozen large apples, even in size. Pare 
and core and place in a baking pan with two teacupfuls 
of boiling water, and two of sugar, filling the centers 
of the apples with part of the sugar. Place on top of 
each apple several seeded raisins and a small piece of 
butter. Bake in a moderate oven until clear. 

Apple Roll 

Peel and chop six large apples. Put them in a 
porcelain lined vessel, and stew until tender. Make a 
dough as for buttermilk biscuit. Roll until a quarter 
of an inch thick ; spread the apples over this with one 
cupful of sugar and a teaspoonful of ground spice. Roll 
this up, and place in a baking dish. Pour over it one 
teacupful of water, one cupful of sugar and a teaspoon- 
ful of butter. Bake for half an hour. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 315 
Baked Apple Dumpling 

For baked apple dumplings use tart apples. If free 
from blemishes, use whole ; if not, they may be sliced. 
Make a paste, using one quart of flour, into which two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of any good baking powder, or 
two of the cream of tartar and one of soda, have been 
sifted, one-quarter of a pound of butter or lard (or one- 
eighth of a pound of each), adding some salt to the 
latter. Rub well together the flour and shortening, 
wet up quickly with water to make a stiff paste. Roll 
out into sheets less than a half inch thick, and cut into 
squares large enough to cover the apple. Put with it, 
before covering, a teaspoonf ul each of butter and sugar, 
adding, also, three cloves to each apple. Bring the 
corners of the square together, pinching them slightly. 
Arrange the dumplings into a dumpling pan half filled 
with water, into which melt one-third of a teacupful of 
butter, and one teacupful of sugar seasoned with cin- 
namon. Do not allow the dumplings to touch in the 
pan, as they need room to swell. Baste frequently 
with the water from the pan. 

Baked Apples 

Peel and core one dozen ripe, medium-sized apples ; 
place in a baking pan, fill the centers with white sugar 
and then pour one teacupful of sugar over the apples. 
Add one pint of boiling water, and bake until very ten- 
der. Serve them with sponge cake. A cream sauce 
may be used with the apples if desired. 

Baked Peaches 

Peel and place in a baking pan. Sprinkle over two 
cupfuls of sugar, and add a teacupful of water. Bake 
until brown. Serve with cream. 

To Fry Apples 

Large, sm^ooth, ripe apples, sliced in quarter-inch 
thick slices. Have lard boiling, fry brown and sprinkle 
with sugar. 



^16 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Baked Quinces 

Take smooth, ripe quinces, rub them well with a 
dry cloth. Take out the core, fill with sugar, sprinkle 
with water, and bake in a moderately hot oven until 
soft and brown. Serve with rich cream. Pears may 
be baked in the same way as quinces or apples. 

To Fry Peaches 

Take ripe, clearseed peaches; peel them and take 
out the seed. Get the drippings from three or four 
slices of pork, have very hot, place the peaches in and 
fry quickly until a nice brown. Take them out and 
sprinkle with white sugar. 

To Fry Green Tomatoes 

Have large, smooth, green tomatoes. Slice and let 
them stand in salt water ten or fifteen minutes. Use 
a tablespoonful of salt in one quart of water. Roll the 
slices of tomatoes in flour and fry a rich brown in boil- 
ing lard. When brown, take up and sprinkle with 
sugar. 

Apple, Peach, or Banana Fritters 

1 cupful flour 2 eggs 

1-3 teaspoonful salt % teaspoonful melted butter 

2-3 cupful milk or water 

Mix together the dry ingredients, beat in the liquid 
gradually, and then stir in the egg yolks, beaten until 
lemon-colored. Add the butter and then the egg 
whites, beaten stiff. Then dip in the fruit, drain it 
for a moment, and drop each fritter into deep butter, 
hot enough to brown a bit of bread in a minute. When 
golden brown on one side, turn to brown the other. 
When done, drain on crumpled paper, dust with pow- 
dered sugar and serve with or without nutmeg or lemon 
sauce. If apples are used they should be cored and 
pared, then sliced in rings. Peaches should be pared 
and quartered ; bananas should be peeled, halved length- 
wise, and then quartered. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 317 

Apple Compote 

Six large apples, one pound of sugar, one quart of 
water, lemons and jelly. Peel, core and halve the ap- 
ples; drop them in cold water, into which the juice of a 
lemon has been squeezed. Make a syrup of the sugar 
and water, the rind of the lemons and a few cloves. 
When this is boiling hot put in the apples, taking care 
not to break them ; when tender take them out, put on 
a dish, concave side up, and fill the hollow with jelly, 
currant or quince; then reduce the syrup by boiling, 
and when cold, pour around the apples. 

Delicate Fritter Batter 

1% teaspoonfuls baking 14 teaspoonful salt 

powder 1 egg (separated) 

1 cupful flour 14 cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 1 tablespoonful olive oil 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Mix the flour, baking powder, cornstarch, salt and 
sugar and sift three times. Beat yolk and white of 
egg separately. Add beaten yolk and milk alternately 
to flour mixture; then add oil and beat until smooth. 
Finally fold in stiffly beaten egg white. Drop by 
spoonfuls into plenty of hot, but not smoking, fat. 
Fry golden brown, turn, drain out with a skimmer, 
and lay on absorbent paper. Trim and dust with pow- 
dered sugar and serve at once. 

Use this batter for plain fritters and for fruit and 
sweet fritters of all kinds. In using vegetables or shell 
fish, omit the sugar. Thin slightly with milk when 
used with any filling. Whole canned fruits drained 
from syrup, apple rings, bananas, etc., may be used for 
filling, as can oysters, clams, etc. 

Banana Fritters Supreme 

Cut ripe bananas in half lengthwise, then crosswise. 
Soak for one hour in lemon juice and sugar to taste. 
Thin fritter batter with milk, dip in each a section of 
banana and fry in hot fat. Drain and serve with jelly. 



318 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Orange Fritters 

Take four oranges; peel them, taking off all the 
white pith without breaking into the meat ; divide into 
four or five pieces, through natural divisions of the 
orange; dip each piece into common batter and fry in 
boiling lard. Serve on napkin with powdered sugar. 

Spanish Fritters 

Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths as thick 
as your finger, in whatever shape you like. Soak in 
some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an 
^gg- When well soaked, fry a nice brown, and serve 
with butter, wine and sugar sauce. 

Fritters, No. 1 

Five eggs, five tablespoonfuls of flour, half a pint 
of sweet milk, one level teaspoonful of salt. Beat the 
eggs separately. Fry in boiling lard. Serve with 
syrup, sugar or fruit syrups. 

Fritters, No. 2 

Two eggs, one pint of buttermilk, one pint of flour, 
a level teaspoonful of salt, and one of soda, sifted in the 
flour. Fry in boiling lard. Serve with sugar or syrup. 

Fritters, No. 3 

Four eggs, beaten separately; one pint of sweet 
milk, one pint of flour, one level teaspoonful of salt 
and a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Fry in 
boiling lard and serve with syrup or sugar. 

Pineapple Fritters 

Make any nice batter, add one can grated pineapple. 



SWEET SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, ETC. 

Cranberry Sauce, No. 1 

One measure of cranberries, half the measure of 
sugar, one-third measure of water. After they begin 
to boil, do not stir. Allow them to boil briskly eight 
minutes; set aside to cool in the vessel in which they 
were cooked. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 319 
Cranberry Sauce, No. 2 

Wash and drain one quart of cranberries ; add one 
pint of cold water, cover closely and set to boil for ten 
minutes, then add one pint of granulated sugar, and 
stew for ten minutes longer, keeping them covered all 
the time. Cook in porcelain, and stir with a wooden 
spoon to preserve the color of the berries. 

Brandy Sauce 

One tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, three teaspoonf uls corn starch, pinch of salt, one- 
half cupful brown sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, one 
cupful brandy. Stir corn starch, flour, salt and melted 
butter. Stir in the hot water, sugar, vanilla and when 
cooked thick, add the brandy. Remove from the fire 
and beat in a lump of butter while cooling. 

This sauce is delicious when served with plum 
pudding, or hot cake. 

Lemon Sauce, No. 1 

One teacupful of sugar, half teacupful of butter, 
one egg beaten light, one lemon, juice and grated rind, 
half teacupful of boiling water ; cook in a double boiler 
to the consistency of cream. 

Lemon Sauce, No. 2 

Six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, beaten until smooth. 

Fruit Salad Dressing 

To two well beaten eggs, add three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, juice of one lemon and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Cook until thick in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly. Cool, then add one cupful of 
whipped cream, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful each of celery, salt and vanilla, 
and a little paprika. Serve cold. 



320 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Sauce for Plum Pudding 

Take half pound of butter, wash the salt from it, 
and cream very light ; stir in three quarters of a pound 
of sugar and the beaten yolk of an egg ; simmer over a 
slow fire or on the back of a stove for a few minutes, 
and when at boiling heat, add a half pint of good 
cooking wine. Serve in a sauce boat, and sprinkle nut- 
meg over the surface. 

If you would serve your pudding in true old England 
style, have ready a gill of pure alcohol, and the pudding 
being turned out in a large and handsome platter, just 
as the servant enters the dining room, let another per- 
son outside the door be furnished with a lighted match. 
Having poured the alcohol over the pudding ignite it 
with the match, and a beautiful leaping flame will 
gladden the eyes of the beholders, awing the children 
present, and usher in a feast fit for King Arthur him- 
self. 

Cream Sauce 

'Stir lightly into a pint of whipped cream the stiffly 
beaten whites of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of fine 
sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla. Drop 
this sauce upon a cold platter and arrange the little 
puddings about it. 

Vanilla Cream Sauce 

Two beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar, two cupfuls of sweet milk (or one each of milk 
or water) , butter, size of a hickory nut ; stir over the 
fire in a double boiler, until as thick as very rich 
cream. Do not boil. When cold, add a very little 
vanilla. Use sauce cold. 

Chocolate Sauce 

% teacupful cocoa or choco- 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

late 4 tablespoonfuls hot water 

14 teacupful sugar 
Mix thoroughly and melt over a hot oven. When 
thoroughly melted, add vanilla and hot water. Stir 
and cook until thick. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 321 

Whipped Cream Sauce 

For any pudding, take one cupful of sweet cream, 
whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Have the cream previously set on the ice to 
get chilled ; whip the cream then, and return to a cool 
place. Beat the whites to a stiff foam, add the sugar, 
then the whipped cream, beating all together. This is 
very nice for fruit puddings or to serve with cake. 

Sunshine Sauce 

Moisten one tablespoonful of corn starch in a little 
cold water. Then pour in a pint of boiling water. Add 
half a cupful of sugar. Beat one egg until very light. 
Then pour over it gradually this hot com starch, stir- 
ring all the while. Beat for just a minute. Add one 
teaspoonful of butter and dessertspoonful of vanilla. 

Custard Sauce 

One and a half cupf uls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, the yolk of one egg, mixed with a level 
tablespoonful of flour and one of water. 

Cream Sauce for Sponge Cake 

One heaping tablespoonful of butter, one and one- 
half teacupfuls of sugar, one of port wine, one of sweet 
cream, and half a teacupful of hot water. Put the 
sugar in a boiler, moisten with the water, and let 
come to a boil. Have the cream ice cold and whipped 
to a stiff froth with a syllabub churn, removing the 
cream to another vessel as it forms. When the sugar 
boils, remove from the fire, and stir slowly into the 
cream, beating constantly. Serve with hot sponge 
cake. 

A Hard Sauce for Plum Pudding 

Stir to a cream one cupful of pulverized sugar, and 
add the juice of a lemon, or a couple of teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla, and a little grated nutmeg. Smooth into a 
mould with a broad-bladed knife, and set away to keep 
cool until the pudding is ready to serve. 



322 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Sauce 

SV2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 egg (white) 

V2 cupful sugar 1 cupful mashed berries 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the stiffly 
beaten white of egg and beat until sugar is well dis- 
solved. When ready to serve, add the berries. Use a 
cake and use the sauce and all as a pudding. 

Caramel 

Place a cupful of sugar, either brown or white, in an 
iron pan with a tablespoonf ul of water and let it remain 
until it melts and becomes of a rich dark brown hue. 
Then add a teacupf ul of boiling water and let it simmer 
for ten minutes ; when cool, bottle for use. 

Egg Sauce 

Beat three eggs (leaving out one white), until light, 
adding two teacupfuls of sugar, and one cupful of 
cream. After beating all well together, add one cupful 
of boiling butter. 

Foam Sauce 

This "foam sauce" is pronounced especially deli- 
cious. To make it, take three cupfuls of pulverized 
sugar, one cupful of butter, one-half cupful of flour, 
and one cupful of boiling water. Beat sugar, butter 
and lard thoroughly together ; then stir into the boiling 
water ; let it boil up once. Flavor with vanilla or wine. 



HOT AND COLD DRINKS 

How to Parch Coffee 

Pick and wash well ten pounds of green coffee. Put 
in sun until thoroughly dry. Put in a moderately warm 
oven; continue this heat until the coffee is a light 
brown. Increase the heat and stir constantly until the 
grains are brown through and through. Then put 
immediately into a jar and cover closely. This takes 
at least three and a half hours, and nothing should 
claim the attention of the cook during this time. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 323 
Coffee for Three 

Two tablespoonf uls of coffee ; grind moderately fine ; 
put in a pot and add one and a half pints of cold water 
and one egg shell. Boil three minutes, remove from 
the fire and add a teaspoonful of cold water. This 
makes three teacupfuls. This is good. 

Coffee (After Dinner) 

Take one quart of water, one even cupful of freshly 
ground coffee, wet with a half cupful of cold water; 
white and shell of one egg; stir into the wet coffee 
the white and shell, the latter broken up small. Put 
the mixture into the coffee pot, shake up and down six 
or seven times to insure the incorporation of the ingre- 
dients, and pour in the boiling water. Boil steadily 
twelve minutes, and pour in one-half cupful of cold 
water, and remove instantly to the side to settle. 
Leave there five minutes. Lift and pour off gently 
the clear coffee. Serve in small cups. Put no sugar 
in coffee; lay two lumps in each saucer, to be used as 
the drinker likes. 

Delicious Morning Chocolate 

Put four ounces of chocolate, dissolved in a little hot 
water, into a saucepan with three cupfuls of water, 
and two ounces of sugar. Set over the fire. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs to a foam in a cupful of water and 
stir; then add a small teaspoonful of rose water. Let 
it remain on the fire several minutes to simmer, but 
not boil ; serve with toasted rusk or coffee cake. 

Baker's Chocolate 

Put into a breakfast cup a teaspoonful of "Baker's 
Breakfast Cocoa," add a teaspoonful of boiling water 
and mix thoroughly. Then add equal parts of boiling 
water and boiled milk, and sugar to taste. Boiling 
two or three minutes wi^l improve it. 



324 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Huyler's Chocolate 

For each breakfast cup, take one teaspoonful of 
"Huyler's Cocoa." Mix the same with boiling water 
or milk to a paste. Add rest of the milk, or milk and 
water, as richness may be desired. Let boil at least 
five minutes. Boiling improves it. 

To Make Tea 

Measure one teaspoonful of tea for each cup. Let 
the water just boil and pour over the tea, cover and 
let stand three minutes; then drain off and serve. 

Tea, No. 2 

Take one heaping teaspoonful of tea for three cup- 
ful s of boiling water, cover and let stand where it will 
keep hot for ten or fifteen minutes and serve. 

Sparkling Lemonade 

Roll and slice half a dozen lemons, put in a large 
pitcher and pour over a gallon of ice water; sweeten. 
Pour in glasses and stir in a little soda. 

Strawberry Sherbet 

Mash half gallon of strawberries; add a gallon of 
water and the juice of two lemons ; let stand four hours, 
strain, and add a pound and a half of sugar; stir until 
dissolved, add ice and drink very cold. Currants or 
other fruit may be used in place of strawberries. 

Shrubs 

Mash a gallon of ripe red currants, or other small 
fruits ; pour over a pint of strong vinegar and a quart 
of cold water ; let stand five hours, strain and add a pint 
of sugar to a pint of juice; let boil and skim ; when cool, 
bottle and seal. A few spoonfuls added to a glass of 
ice water forms a very cooling drink. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 325 
Southern Negus 

Take one quart of red cherries, three pounds of 
black heart cherries and four pounds of currants; 
mash and mix all together, and stand away in a cool 
place for three or four days; strain and boil juice; 
to every pint add half pound of sugar; let cool and 
bottle. Add two or three tablespoonfuls to a glass of 
ice water. 

Lemon Beer 

Cut half a dozen lemons in slices, and put into a 
jar with a pound of sugar and a gallon and a half of 
boiling water. Let stand until cool and add half a cup- 
ful of fresh yeast; let ferment. Bottle and cork very 
tightly. 

Ice Tea and Coffee 

Iced tea and coffee are probably the least injurious 
of summer drinks. To prepare the former, pour a cup- 
ful of boiling water over three tablespoonfuls of tea, 
set to steep, then add one quart of freshly boiled water. 
Five minutes later strain into an earthen jug and 
when cool — not lukewarm — add one or two pieces of 
ice. Serve with a large quantity of finely chopped ice, 
granulated sugar and thin slices of lemon. If iced 
coffee be desired, make a fresh pot of very strong 
coffee and when cold serve with large quantities of ice 
and sugar; cream is but seldom used. 



DAINTY DISHES FOR LUNCH, TEA AND 

PICNICS 

Deviled Ham 

To devil cold ham, cut in slices one-third of an inch 
thick ; season with cayenne pepper, and dip in mustard 
dressing. Boil a few minutes and serve. 



326 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Ham Fingers 

Cut thin slices of lean, cold boiled ham; cut each 
slice in strips half an inch wide, dip into a thick remou- 
lade sauce, place four or five on a slice of bread, cover 
with a top slice, cut into four fingers lengthwise, fold 
each one in a lettuce leaf, and pile on a napkin. 

To Serve Broiled Squab — for a Meat Course 

Serve broiled squab on plate with one-half peach 
filled with guava jelly. If out of season, use canned 
peaches. 

Celery in Mock Aspic 

This is delightful served with cream chicken, and 
thus the meat of the fowl used for the foundation stock 
may be utilized. Put a hen on to cook in two quarts 
of cold salted water ; when it is tender remove from the 
liquor and set aside for creamed chicken or salad. Let 
the liquor boil down to one quart, or a little less ; mean- 
while put one tablespoonf ul of gelatin in half a teacup- 
f ul of cold water ; let stand half an hour, then dissolve 
with a little boiling water poured over it, and stir into 
the chicken liquor. To the latter add half a teacupful 
of port wine, half a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice whole, and a little white 
pepper. In ten minutes remove from the fire, clarify 
with the white of an egg, return to the fire, let boil 
up, skim and strain into a pitcher. 

With a little of the fat which has been skimmed 
from the liquor while cooking, grease after dinner cups, 
small whiskey glasses, or fancy molds. Have the in- 
side blades of celery chipped fine enough to make a 
quart, season this with salt and white pepper, and half 
fill the moulds with it ; pour over the liquor which must 
be almost cold, but not cold enough to congeal before 
it can be poured out. Set the moulds in a cold place, 
and when ready to serve slip a slender knife around the 
sides, and turn out on a lettuce leaf. Serve with 
cream and mayonnaise. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 327 

Canned Luncheon Beef or Tongue 

The meat should be carefully turned out of the can, 
sliced neatly with a sharp, thin knife, and disposed 
attractively upon a platter. The dish may be prettily 
garnished with parsley, celery tips or cress ; and some- 
times thinly sliced pickled peppers or sliced cucumbers 
will be arranged about the meat. 

Larded Sweetbreads With French Peas 

Blanch and remove the membrane from a set of 
sweetbreads. Lard with strips of bacon cut three 
inches long and quarter of an inch wide, using a larding 
needle for the purpose. Place the sweetbreads in a 
baking pan with half a teacupful of boiling water and 
a teaspoonf ul of butter. Let cook in the oven ten min- 
utes, basting ocacsionally. When tender sift over 
them some fine bread crumbs, and return to the oven 
to brown. Meanwhile turn a can of small French peas 
in a stew pan with a teaspoonful of butter, half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a little pepper ; let get thoroughly 
hot. When ready to serve, place the sweetbreads in 
center of hot dish and the peas around them. Should 
be served at once. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Parboil, or bake, two medium sized sweet potatoes, 
and mash to a smooth paste. Measure two teacupfuls 
of this and mix with it a half teaspoonful of salt, one 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cream or rich sweet 
milk, and two eggs. Make into oblong rolls, using one 
rounding teaspoonful for each croquette. Roll in egg 
and biscuit crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. They are 
much more easily handled if a wire basket is used. 

TimbaJes 

In a granite boiler five or six inches in diameter 
and the same in depth, place two pounds of lard. Set 
this over a brisk fire. Have the timbale iron thor- 
oughly cleaned and smooth (no rust on it) and put in 
th-e vessel containing the lard. 



328 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Make a batter thus : Break into a small bowl two 
eggs ; add to these a half teacupf ul of sweet milk, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, same of sugar. Measure one 
teacupful of unsifted flour (not packed) and sift into 
the bowl. Now beat these together to a smooth bat- 
ter, then add one teaspoonful of whiskey or rum. 

By this time the lard should be boiling ; when a blue 
smoke arises from it, it is hot enough to begin to cook 
the timbales. Have an Irish potato peeled and sliced 
and put a piece of this in the lard occasionally to keep 
the latter clear; remove the potato when it gets very 
brown and put in another piece. 

Fill a teacup two-thirds full of the batter; lift the 
iron from the hot lard, drain it a moment on paper, 
then dip slowly two-thirds down in the cup of batter, 
and out again and down in the boiling lard. Let stay 
half a minute, when it should be brown. Slip it from 
the iron on twenty-four timbales. 

Salmi of Chicken 

Take minced cold chicken and moisten well with 
drawn butter; season with celery, salt and pepper and 
heat the whole. Cover the bottom of the baking dish 
with bread crumbs; add to the chicken a beaten egg 
and lemon juice to flavor, and pour into the dish. 
Sprinkle bread crumbs over the top, together with 
pieces of butter, and bake a nice brown. 

Oyster Cocktail 

For one hundred small oysters, which should serve 
twenty persons, prepare the sauce as follows: The 
juice of six lemons, two- thirds of a teacupful of mild 
cider vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, two 
of Worcestershire sauce, half a teaspoonful of tobasco 
sauce, one teacupful of the liquor from the oysters, 
strained, and one teaspoonful of salt, and if liked very 
hot, tobasco sauce to taste. Mix in a porcelain lined 
or a granite pitcher, and set in the refrigerator, or in 
a cool place until ready to serve. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 329 

Rich Croquettes 

With one teacupful of well cooked, salted, cold rice 
mix two eggs, one teacupful of cream, and a little 
white pepper. If needed, add a little salt. Roll in egg 
and biscuit crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. 

Potted Chicken 

Open a small can of potted chicken, moisten it 
with catsup or chutney sauce; add a heaping table- 
spoonful of butter, some celery salt and a little pepper. 
Heat in a chafing dish and eat with buttered biscuit. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms Creamed — Served in 
Patty Shells or Timbales 

One pound of sweetbreads, washed and set aside in 
cold water ; one can of small button mushrooms ; three 
fresh eggs ; one teacupful of fresh sweet milk, and half 
teacupful of cream ; one tablespoonf ul of fresh butter, 
a heaping tablespoonf ul of flour, and sherry ; one table- 
spoonful of salt, and a quarter teaspoonful each of 
cayenne and white pepper. 

Carefully remove from the sweetbreads the mem- 
brane and pipes ; as this is done throw them into fresh 
water ; rinse in a third water, then place in a porcelain 
lined, or a granite stew pan; cover with boiled salt 
water and let cook rapidly for ten or fifteen minutes, 
when they should be tender. When cold, chop fine 
(using a meat grinder with a coarse cutter on, if con- 
venient), and turn again into the stew pan and set 
aside. Open the mushrooms and drain the liquor from 
them ; put aside one-third of these with which to gar- 
nish, and chop or grind the balance ; place in a stew pan 
with half a teaspoonful of butter. Fifteen minutes 
before serving pour the cream over the sweetbreads 
and set the vessels containing this and the mushrooms 
on the back part of the range to get hot. In good- 
sized porcelain lined or granite pan put the butter and 
set over a quick fire ; when the butter melts sift into it, 
stirring constantly, a tablespoonful of flour. When 



330 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

this is smooth, turn into it quickly the teacupful of 
milk; stir until the consistency of thick cream; add 
salt and pepper, then turn in the sweetbreads, and in 
a minute or two the mushrooms. The mass must be 
stirred slowly, but constantly. Now break in the 
eggs quickly, stirring more rapidly; when thick add 
the sherry; taste to see if seasoned correctly, then 
serve hot in patty shells or timbales, placing on top of 
each two or three of the whole mushrooms, which 
have been heated in a little butter, and a sprig of deli- 
cate green parsley, celery or endive. 

If desired, this may be served in a large pastry 
shell — like vol-au-vent — a top crust being baked sepa- 
rately from it, just as are the little tops for patties. 

Ham Croquettes 

' Two teacupfuls of grated ham, one cupful of 
cracker or bread crumbs. Season to taste with a little 
butter, mustard, pepper and Worcester sauce. Roll 
the balls first in egg^ then in cracker crumbs and fry 
in boiling lard. 

Brain Croquettes 
Remove the membrane from a hog or veal brain, 
wash thoroughly and parboil twenty minutes; then 
drain and stir them with a teacupful of cracker crumbs 
into three eggs (well beaten). Make into cakes, roll 
in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. 
Drain on brown or blotting paper, and serve on a nap^ 
kin. Garnish with parsley. 

Cutlets of Calves' Brains 

Lay the brains in cold water to whiten. Put them 
in a stew pan with a little water, a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, an onion, two or three cloves, a little white 
wine, salt and white pepper. Simmer the brains half 
an hour, then lay them on a sieve to drain. When cold, 
cut them in slices and dip them either in egg and 
ibread crumbs or butter, seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Fry them in pure lard. Serve as a side dish, or accom- 
paniment to any delicate vegetable. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 331 
Fig Eclairs 

Make a premium white cake, using half the meas- 
ure, and bake in two square layer cake pans. The 
cakes, when done, should be an inch and one-half thick. 
Cut into hearts, or squares, two and one-half inches in 
diameter with patty shell cutter. Use the smallest 
cutter belonging to the set to cut the center from each 
little cake, being careful not to cut quite through the 
bottom crust, thus making a cavity for the filling. 

Have ready the filling made thus: Chop fine, or 
grind in a meat cutter, one pound of dried figs. Put 
these on to cook in a porcelain lined pan, with half 
teacupf ul of sherry wine ; when tender, add one teacup- 
ful of sugar. Let cook to a jelly — about ten minutes 
after the sugar is added. When cold fill the cavities in 
the cakes, handling the latter very carefully. Ice the 
tops of the cakes with plain icing; when this dries^ 
ice the cakes on top and sides. If boiled icing is used 
keep the bowl in which the icing is made in larger 
vessel of hot water, stirring frequently. When this 
is done the icing keeps smooth and soft, so one is not 
so hurried in using. If it begins to harden too quickly 
stir in the unbeaten white of one or more eggs. 

If preferred, the small cakes may be cut in half 
and the filling put in just as layer cake is made. Then 
only the icing will be necessary. 

Cotolettes en Papillote 

Cut your mutton into slices half an inch thick and 
put each slice into a well buttered and frilled strip 
of white paper. The dipping in melted butter prevents 
their burning. Roll the cotolette up in paper to pre- 
serve the gravy, broil them on the gridiron and serve 
them up in the paper. 

Anchovy Paste 

Rub to a smooth paste, with mayonnaise No. 2, 
as many anchovies as are needed. 



332 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Mutton Cutlets With Mushrooms 

Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into neat 
cutlets, trim them, and beat them out with a wet knife ; 
brush them over with some good salad oil, and broil 
them over a clear fire. Serve them around a puree 
of mushrooms, with some good sauce around, but not 
over them. 

Puree of Mushrooms 

Wash well, dry and chop finely one pint of good 
mushrooms, and set them on the fire with about one 
ounce of butter. Let them cook at the side of the 
stove eight or ten minues, and add two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh bread crumbs, pepper, salt and a good spoonful 
of brown sauce. Bring it to a boil, mix in a teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley and serve. 

Beef a la Mode 

Take a piece of the round, make in it deep incisions 
and force into them small thin squares of pork, which 
have been rolled in a seasoning of pepper, salt and 
spices; then into a stew pan containing sliced onions, 
a few slices of lemon and thin slices of pork, lay the 
roast, putting over it a crust of pastry; over it all, 
pour water, with a little vinegar, to about half cover 
the meat. Cook till the meat is quite tender, taking 
care to keep the raw covered while cooking. 

Beef Loaf 

To one pound of raw beef, chopped fine, three soda 
crackers rolled and sifted (dry bread crumbs will an- 
swer), add salt and pepper, and one egg well beaten; 
work together until thoroughly mixed. Form into a 
loaf by pressing into a bowl and turning out on a but- 
tered tin; rub a little butter over it and pour on a 
large cupful of canned tomatoes. Bake three-quarters 
of an hour, basting frequently with the tomatoes. 
Veal loaf may be prepared the same way. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK SS3 
A Nice Way to Use Cold Meat 

When you have a little meat left from dinner, mince 
it, grate and add to it half as much of bread crumbs, 
and season with pepper, and whatever herb you fancy, 
with a little celery seed. Add a wineglassful of good 
stock or beef extract. Place these ingredients in a 
mould that they will about fit, and pour over it sufficient 
dissolved gelatine to nearly cover it. Steam for an 
hour, set aside to cool and turn out. 

Boned Turkey With Fruit Jelly 

Tinned turkey, whether put up with or without 
meat jelly, invariably makes a palatable dish. It 
should be neatly sliced and served with currant or 
cranberry jelly or with spiced plums, grapes, or cur- 
rants. Any garnish that may be at hand, such as 
cresses, celery tops, or parsley, may be arranged upon 
the platter and over the turkey. 

Mayonnaise of Cod 

Pick cold boiled cod into large flakes, cover it with a 
mayonnaise dressing, garnishing it with cold boiled 
eggs cut in slices. Nasturtium leaves and blossoms 
make a pretty border for this salad. 

Fish Patties 

This is an excellent way of using any cold fish 
which may be left over from dinner. Free from bones 
and shred fine a pint of fish, add to it one quart of 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of flour, mixed 
smoothly with a little milk. Season with pepper, salt 
and nutmeg, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of each. 
Mix the milk, flour, eggs and spice smoothly together. 
Set it over the fire and stir until it is as thick as cream. 
Put in a deep baking dish alternate layers of salt, fish, 
and bread crumbs, in the order named, and set in the 
oven until it is slightly browned. Very little time is 
required. An excellent dish for breakfast, lunch, or 
tea. 



334 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Jellied Veal 

Take a knuckle of veal, wipe, put in a kettle, cover 
with cold water and bring slowly to a boil; skim and 
let simmer for two hours ; add a slice of onion, a blade 
of mace, a dozen whole cloves, half a dozen pepper- 
corns, half a teaspoonful of ground allspice and one 
grated nutmeg, let simmer gently for one hour longer. 
Take the joint of veal up, remove the bones and gris- 
tle, put the meat in a square mould, strain the liquor, 
and boil until reduced to one quart ; add half a teacup- 
ful of vinegar, the juice of a small lemon, with pepper 
and salt, pour it over the meat and stand aside over 
night to cool. When ready to serve, turn carefully 
out of the mould ; garnish with parsley and thin slices 
of lemon. Slice very thin. 

Frog Legs 

The hind legs of the large, green bullfrog are cut 
from the body, skinned, salted and fried in boiling 
lard. 

Liver Pudding 

Boil a pound of calf s or hog*s liver, with half 
pound of the thin part of middling or breast of fresh 
pork. When done, mince fine or run through a meat 
chopper; remove all skin and stringy parts. Season 
rather highly with red pepper, onions and salt. Stuff 
like sausage, or make into cakes, and fry in boiling 
lard. To keep this, follow directions for keeping 
sausage. 

Pate de Foie Gras — Home Made 

Boil a calf's liver until tender, in slightly salted 
water; cut it in pieces, and rub gradually to a paste 
with melted butter, then work into it a little cayenne, 
half a nutmeg, cloves, mace, teaspoonful of Worcester 
sauce, the same of French mustard, a little salt, and a 
tablespoonful of boiling water, in which a large onion 
has been steeped. Serve cold, with buttered rolls or 
milk. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 335 
Luncheon Eggs 

Boil a dozen fresh eggs for fifteen minutes ; throw 
them in cold water for ten minutes, and remove the 
shells; cut the eggs in halves lengthwise. Take out 
the yOlks, and rub to a paste with a tablespoonful of 
French mustard, two of anchovy paste, one of olive 
oil, with salt and cayenne to taste. Fill the hollows 
of the whites with this mixture, press together, ar- 
range on a bed of cress in a large dish, and drop a 
teaspoonful of mayonnaise on each. 

Eggs and Oysters 

Boil eight eggs for fifteen minutes; remove the 
shells, take out the yolks and cut up the whites. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan, and set on 
the stove to mdt ; sift in a tablespoonful of flour, mix 
smooth, thin with half a teacupful of cream and stir 
until ready to boil; add the chopped whites of the 
eggs with half a dozen chopped oysters; season with 
salt and pepper and stir until well heated; add the 
yolks, let cook four minutes longer and serve very hot. 

Deviled Crabs 

Boil as many crabs as will furnish six ounces of 
meat. When cool enough to handle, remove the meat 
from the shells, cut it into small pieces, and clean the 
shells thoroughly. Add to six ounces of the crab 
meat two ounces of bread crumbs, two hard boiled 
eggs chopped, the juice of half a lemon, a little cay- 
enne pepper and salt. Mix the whole with cream 
sauce, fill the shells, sprinkle them with bread crumbs 
and set in the oven until slightly browned. 

Pickled Fish 

Pick any kind of cold boiled fish to pieces, and 
cover it with vinegar, to which you have added salt 
and pepper, a pinch of ground cloves, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and a half teaspoonful of onion juice. 
Let it stand ten hours before using. 



336 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Lobster Salad 

Cut a small piece from the top of a French roHl, 
and remove the inside. Cut cold lobster into pieces 
about the size of dice, mix it with mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and fill the cavity in the rolls, covering with the 
piece which has been removed. A pretty way of serv- 
ing, which also secures the cover firmly, is to tie 
baby ribbon around the roll, finishing with a pretty 
bow on top. 

Small Savory Molds 

If there is sufficient cold game at hand, left over, 
it will answer the purpose. Free the meat from bones 
and skin, season it to taste with salt, cayenne and 
pounded mace, and cut into small, neat dice; cut also 
in like fashion about two-thirds the weight of lean 
cooked ham, and have ready some clear, nicely flavored 
aspic jelly in a liquid form. Take the required num- 
ber of small cup moulds, and pour a little of the jelly 
in the bottom of each; when this has stiffened, put 
in some of the game and sprinkle it over with rough 
chopped parsley and hard boiled egg, then cover with 
part of the ham, and repeat in this manner until the 
moulds are sufficiently full — always remembering to 
put in the meat quite 'loosely. Fill up the moulds to 
the top with jelly, and set in a cool place until firm. 
Turn out and arrange on a pretty dish; lay a dainty 
little shape of red currant jelly on the top of each 
mould; garnish with fresh parsley and serve. 

These molds are equally delightful if made with a 
mixture of veal and ham, ham and chicken, or lobster — 
only in case of lobster being used, the hard boiled egg 
would be dispensed with, and the seasoning must be 
appropriate. 

Anchovy Fingers 

Rub two ounces of butter into six of fine sifted flour 
until smooth, then add a teaspoonful of anchovy es- 
sence, a pinch of cayenne, a well-beaten egg, and as 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 337 

much cold water as will form the whole into a nice, 
light paste; roll this out very thin, prick it closely 
with a fork, cut it in strips about two and a half 
inches long by one and a quarter wide, and bake en a 
baking sheet, in a moderate oven until done. When 
quite cold put the fingers together in twos with a layer 
of anchovy butter between, and brush the top over 
with a little liquid aspic jelly; before this has time 
to set, sprinkle part of the fingers very lightly with 
some very finely minced parsley; part of the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve; others 
with lobster coral, and the remainder with the white 
of the egg very finely chopped, or cut in tiny strips. 
When the jelly has become quite firm, dish up the 
fingers in twos, on small plates, taking great care to 
make the colors contrast prettily; garnish tastefully 
with sprigs of fresh parsley and serve. 



A Mexican Dish 

Take a deep earthenware dish (always be sure to 
use earthenware, as even the finest metal imparts a 
poor flavor to the tomato), pour into it a cup of cream ; 
having cut very thin slices — they must be cut as thin as 
wafers — of egg-plant, salt them liberally and line the 
dish with them; next slice two large, ripe tomatoes, 
and place a layer of these on the egg-plant; next a 
layer of macaroni; sprinkle this with half a dozen 
lumps of good cheese about the size of a thimble; as 
many of sweet, fresh butter; pepper it thickly; again 
cover this with more slices of tomato, and a top layer 
of egg-plant and be sure that both of these latter are 
well salted and peppered. Now set your dish in a slow 
oven, let it cook gently for one hour and twenty min- 
utes; take it out; pin in a fringed napkin — for it 
must be served in the dish in which it has been cooked, 
and with a joint of beef, with roast lamb or veal, it 
will be found indeed a royal tasting compound. 



338 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Aspic Jelly 

One pound of uncooked beef, a knuckle of veal, 
one-fourth pound of bacon, one slice of turnip, one 
slice of parsnip, two cloves, tablespoonful of butter, 
one onion, one-half carrot, a stalk of celery, six pepper- 
corns, one blade of mace, a chip of lemon rind, two 
quarts of water, three whole allspice, one tablespoon- 
ful of Worcester sauce, salt to taste. Put the bacon 
in the bottom of a soup kettle, let it brown, then add 
the onions cut in slices; stir until a nice brown, then 
add the butter, and when hot, the beef ; cover the kettle 
and let it simmer until a thick, brown glaze is formed 
in the bottom of the kettle; then add the veal and 
water and simmer gently for two hours. Now add the 
vegetables, Worcester sauce, spices and lemon rind 
and simmer two hours longer. When done it should 
be reduced one half. Strain and clarify the same as 
bouillon. Turn into a square mold or the small aspic 
jelly molds. If you use a large mold, cut the jelly 
into blocks. 

Salmagundi 

One dozen tomatoes, four cold Irish potatoes; one 
small onion, two or more blades of celery, three hard- 
boiled eggs. Slice the tomatoes and salt them; chop 
fine the potatoes, onion, celery and eggs, salting and 
peppering each separately. Then mix and pour over 
it one teacupful of good apple vinegar. This is con- 
sidered very fine. 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Scald and peel a dozen select tomatoes of even size 
and fine color. Cut out enough of the blossom end to 
admit of the insertion of the dressing. Prepare the 
mayonnaise as directed for Mayonnaise No. 2. Ar- 
range the tomatoes on a flat dish, heap the mayonnaise 
in each one separately and surround the whole with 
crisp lettuce leaves. No dish is prettier or more tempt- 
ing at a summer tea table. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 339 
Cheese Blocks 

Two ounces of cheese, grated, two ounces of fresh 
butter, two ounces of flour, season to taste with salt, 
cayenne, pounded mace and form a stiff paste. Roll 
out thin as possible, then cut part of it into strips, 
or straws, about four inches long and not more than 
the third of an inch wide, and stamp out the remainder 
into rings about an inch in diameter. Place both 
straws and rings on a greased baking tin and bake for 
a few minutes in a brisk oven until colored. When 
quite cold, put into each ring as many straws as each 
will hold, and serve, tastefully arranged on a pretty 
dish paper, and garnished here and there with tiny 
sprigs of fresh parsley. 

A Very Nice Relish 

Cut a small hole in the top of a large tomato, and fill 
with chopped cucumber, onion, cabbage, or cauliflower 
and the tomato taken out; and serve on a lettuce leaf 
with mayonnaise and parsley chopped with onion and 
vinegar. 

Curds With Cream 

Press the whey from the clabber through a perfor- 
ated tin mold. When thoroughly dry (that is, all 
the whey is out, and the curds are caked), turn out; 
garnish with water cress and serve with cream sauce 
flavored with nutmeg. One gallon of milk makes a 
moderate dish. 

Apple Sago 

Ten or twelve apples; three-quarters of a cupful 
of sago, a pinch of salt. Pour two or three cupfuls of 
boiling water over the sage and let boil until thor- 
oughly done. Sweeten to taste. Pare and cover the 
apples, pour the sago over them and set in the oven 
until the apples are done. This is better eaten cold. 
Serve with cream. 



340 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Select a number of ripe, good shaped tomatoes. 
Remove an even slice from the smooth ends of each; 
take out with a small spoon the pulp and juice, and 
put these in a dish. Prepare a favorite forcemeat; 
fill each tomato nearly full of the forcemeat. Replace 
the slices which were cut off. Put them in a pan and 
pour over them the pulp and juice, strained; add five 
or six small pieces of butter; bake from twenty to 
thirty minutes, or longer if necessary. If baked too 
fast or too long, they will lose their shape and firm- 
ness. When done, slide them with a flat, tin shovel 
from the pan to a flat dish. Of different forcemeats, 
used with tomatoes, the following one is preferred 
by the writer: Quantity of crackers according to 
the number of tomatoes used; crush them very fine 
with a rolling pin; put in a dish and season to taste 
with salt, pepper, celery, thyme and butter ; scald with 
boiling hot water, using enough to make it thick and 
smooth. 

A Spanish Dish 

Put a deep frying pan on the fire, with a generous 
allowance of either good butter or fresh lard. The 
frying pan to do its work correctly must be as hot as 
it can be. Meanwhile take four fresh eggs, break them 
and beat well; add to these half a small onion, a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, a dash of cayenne, and 
a little cinnamon. Now take four fresh eggs, break 
them and beat well; add to these the pulps of three 
tomatoes. Next melt a lump of cheese as large as a 
silver dollar, and pour in quickly with the beef; stir 
the mixture well, and put in a hot frying pan. Saute 
it; that is, keep it tossing about in the pan, letting it 
have no chance to brown, or let it burn, but seeing 
that it is thoroughly cooked, which will be in about 
twenty minutes. Serve it on a hot, covered dish, and 
garnish with slices of cold boiled eggs, dipped in 
mayonnaise. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 341 
A Yankee Dish 

Baked beans are good for supper if they have pep- 
per sauce poured freely over them. Eat them with 
plain white onion pickles. 

Salted Almonds 

Shell one pound of almonds; cover with boiling 
water; let stand five minutes; remove the skins and 
dry thoroughly. Put in a large pan a small piece of 
butter, and when melted, turn in the almonds, stirring 
rapidly until every nut is shining with butter. Then 
sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of salt, mixing so 
that every nut shall be coated. Then put the pan on 
the bottom of the oven and let it remain (shaking -and 
stirring frequently, until the nuts are a light yellow- 
ish brown, when they will be crisp and delicious. 

Welsh Rarebit 

Quarter of a pound of rich cream cheese, quarter 
of a cupful of cream or rich milk, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of 
cayenne pepper, one egg, one teaspoonful butter, four 
slices of toast. Grate or break the cheese into small 
pieces; put it with the cream into a double boiler; 
toast the bread, and keep hot; mix mustard, salt and 
pepper; add the egg, and beat well. When the cheese 
is melted, stir in the butter, eggs, etc., and cook two 
minutes, or until it thickens, but do not let it curdle; 
pour it over the toast. White wine may be used 
instead of cream. 

Cheese Souffles 

Grate three pounds of Parmesan cheese, whip half 
a pint of rich cream, and a tablespoonful of aspic jelly 
together until frothy; add the grated cheese, season 
with a dash of cayenne, a little salt, and a few drops 
of French mustard ; fill the little moulds with the mix- 
ture, grate cheese over the tops, and set on ice to 
get firm. 



342 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Savory Cheese Pie 

Put a small cupful of grated cheese into a saucepan 
with a cupful of milk and a small piece of butter. 
When melted, add a cupful of bread crumbs, two beaten 
eggs, and a little salt. Pour into a buttered pie plate 
and bake until brown. 

Cheesed Crackers 

Snow flakes, or any other dry crackers can be made 
more palatable this way : Spread the butter on them ; 
sprinkle with grated cheese; put in a hot oven and 
slightly brown. Serve cold. They are nice with after 
dinner coffee, or for lunch. 

Scalloped Cheese 

Place in a baking dish a layer of fresh oyster 
crackers, then a thin one of grated cheese, and a little 
butter, then the crackers, cheese, etc., until the dish is 
full. Pour over enough sweet milk to cover — and bake 
twenty minutes. Delicious. 

Milk Luncheon or Tea 

Nowadays, when fresh milk is a fashionable drink 
at luncheon, or at afternoon teas or at suppers, the 
hostess who likes the milk to look dainty will serve it 
in tall thin glasses — not goblets — and have shaken 
over the top a fall of nutmeg. 

Sallie Lunn 

One quart of flour, one egg, one yeast cake, lard 
size of small hen egg, dessertspoonful of sugar. Beat 
the yolks of eggs with the sugar and lard; dissolve 
the yeast cake in half a teacupful of tepid water, and 
add; then sift the flour and one teaspoonful of salt, 
and make a very stiff batter with a little milk-warm 
boiled milk. Set by fire to rise. In three or four 
hours, work and make out in pan, one layer at the 
bottom, greased with a little lard and the other layer 
on top of that. Set to rise and then bake. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 343 
Sandwich Filling 

Mash into Roquefort cheese half as much butter. 
When it is smooth add red pepper to taste and spread 
on toasted biscuits. 

Non de Scripts, No. 1 

One egg and a pinch of salt ; beat slightly and stir 
in flour till stiff enough to roll very thin ; cut in strips 
and fry in boiling lard to a nice brown; sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Nice for tea. 

Non de Scripts, No. 2 

Yolks of three eggs beaten quite light ; a pinch of 
salt and sufficient flour to make the mixture rather 
stiff. Roll as thin as tissue paper, cut into strips four 
inches long, and an eighth of an inch wide ; have them 
joined at top. Fry a light brown in boiling lard. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar as soon as taken up. A 
nice dish for tea. 

Cream Puffs 

Beat three eggs five minutes ; add one teacupf ul of 
sifted flour slowly, alternating with sweet milk, using 
one pint; add level teaspoonful of salt, and one of 
melted butter. Grease and fill patty pans half full; 
bake in a quick oven. These are delicious. Serve hot. 

Cream Meringues 

Four eggs (whites only) whipped stiff with one 
pound of powdered sugar, flavored with vanilla or or- 
ange. When very stiff heap in the shape of half an 
egg upon stiff letter paper lining the bottom of baking 
pan. Have them at least a half inch apart. Do not 
shut the oven door closely ; as they burn very easily. 
Watch closely and when a light yellow-brown take 
them out and cool quickly; slip a thin bladed knife 
under each, scoop out the soft inside and fill with 
cream whipped very stiff as for Charlotte Russe. The 
oven should be very hot. 



344 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Laplands 

One quart of cream, one quart of flour, twelve 
eggs and a little salt. Separate yolks from the whites 
and beat until light. Stir the cream into the flour, 
and add the yolks and lastly, the whites. Then put 
them at once into a quick oven. Bake in small tins, 
which should be perfectly dry before being greased, 
after which a little flour should be sprinkled over the 
bottom of each. Fill the tins full of batter and eat 
hot with nice butter. 

This recipe is marked with faded ink in an old 
book "Delicious," and below was added the quaint and 
suggestive bit of advice: "Try to restrain your ap- 
petite while eating." Serve as a lunch dish with hot 
sauce. 

Love Knots 

One egg and a pinch of salt ; beat slightly and stir 
in flour to make a dough; a little salt; cut thin and 
tie in knots ; fry in boiling lard. 

Rolled Bread and Butter 

The bread required for this purpose must not be 
more than twenty-four hours old, and it must be 
spongy and elastic. The loaves may. be baked either 
round or square, but to be really nice they should not 
measure more than five and one-half inches in diam- 
eter. Out the slices just as thin as is possible to cut 
bread, using a very sharp knife for the purpose so as 
to cut smoothly, and remember to butter them previ- 
ous to cutting. Remove the crust — unless it is exceed- 
ingly soft and thin — and roll each slice up lightly in 
bolster form, handling it very gently, yet firmly, and 
just pressing it sufficiently to make the folds adhere. 
A little patience is necessary in order to do this satis- 
'factorily, but "practice makes perfect," and it is well 
worth persevering, as the dish proves a most welcome 
one in many ways. The English patronize rolled 
bread and butter very largely at "afternoon teas," 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 345 

which is a good idea, as the ladies can enjoy the re- 
freshments without removing their gloves. The rolls 
should be arranged in pyramid form on a pretty lace 
dish paper, and be garnished around the base with 
tufts of fresh green parsley. For light luncheons, and 
suppers, too, it is frequently served, the bread then 
being spread with some very savory butter, shrimp, 
sardine, anchovy, etc., instead of just the ordinary. 
The outside of the rolls should then be sprinkled lightly 
with finely minced parsley and lobster coral or very 
bright red crumbs, and should be dished up tastefully 
on a flat bed of crisp, well-seasoned water cress — the 
latter, of course, to be eaten with the bread if desired. 

Meringues 

Add to whites of four eggs, well beaten, half a 
pound of sugar, flavor to taste, drop on buttered paper 
and bake. 

French Puffs 

Take a pint of new milk; boil half, and mix the 
other half very smoothly with four heaped tablespoon- 
fuls of fine flour; then add it to the boiling milk and 
boil until it is a stiff paste. When cold, take the yolks 
of five eggs, the whites of two, a tablespoonful of pul- 
verized sugar and beat the whole into a light batter; 
then drop it from a spoon into boiling lard, fry a light 
brown and serve it up with sifted sugar over each. A 
small piece of any candied fruit may be dropped into 
each spoonful of the batter. 

Cranberry Puffs 

One pint of cranberries, one pint of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one levd teaspoonful of 
salt, two eggs; add enough sweet milk to make a bat- 
ter a little thicker than for cakes. Grease six or seven 
teacups thoroughly with butter. Fill half full, set in 
steamer closely covered and steam an hour. They will 
come out perfect puff balls. Serve with sauce; they 
'are spongy and will absorb a great deal. 



346 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

THE CHAFING DISH 

This is something that has been resuscitated ; some- 
thing that our grandmothers prided themselves on 
managing with dexterity. We are finding that it is 
something that cannot be improved upon, hence it 
grows more popular every day. We have culled reci- 
pes from some of the best cooks in our land, and assure 
those who try them, success if the directions given are 
followed. When purchasing a chafing dish do not 
think a silver plated the only desirable one; a good 
one of block tin or copper, if preferred, will answer 
every purpose. 

It is advisable to buy cheap graniteware plate to 
use when anything is to be fried, as the intense heat 
'will be likely to melt tin. 

When using a chafing dish, remember the flame is 
intensely hot; be careful, therefore, that what you 
cook be not overdone or burned. Wash the dish as 
soon as possible after using and place in the sun. 
The wicks of the lamp should be kept quite low; do 
not light until everything is ready; extinguish the 
minute it is not needed, and be sure to cover the lamp 
completely. If this is not done the alcohol will evapo- 
rate. Miss Parloa says: "Once begin to use the 
chafing dish, and the variety of savory dishes you can 
cook — all of which can be cooked on the ordinary range 
— will surprise you." 

In serving, all the dishes should be hot. Toasted 
bread or water crackers should be served with most of 
the things cooked. 

Bombay Toast 

Have ready six slices of toasted bread, one table- 
spoonful of chopped olives, one of anchovy paste (made 
of minced anchovies and mustard dressing), one heap- 
ing tablespoonf ul of butter, a pinch of cayenne and two 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 347 

of salt. Break the eggs into a bowl and beat well; 
add salt, pepper, and olives. Put the butter in the 
upper pan of the chafing dish and place over the boil- 
ing water; as soon as this melts stir in the eggs and 
paste; continue to stir until a creamy mass, then re- 
move from the water and stir for half a minute. 
Spread on the toast, cut into squares and eat at once. 
Have the wicks of the lamp low. 



Chicken Sandwiches 

One pint of minced chicken or game, one teaspoon- 
f ul of deviled ham, one of salt, one of flour, one of curry 
powder, a teacupful of sweet milk, pinch of cayenne 
and one teacupful of butter. Put half the butter in 
the granite- ware pan; when it melts stir in the flour 
and curry powder ; when smooth and creamy gradually 
stir in the milk ; add the pepper. Sprinkle the salt on. 
the meat; stir this with the ham into the mixture, 
and cook for five minutes. Put in a covered dish and 
keep hot. Cut eight slices of bread in halves; put 
rest of butter in the granite pan ; when smoking hot, 
put in several slices of bread at a time, and brown on 
both sides, until all are fried. Spread half a slice with 
the hot meat, and place another slice on top of it. 
Serve very hot. 



Creamed Dried Beef 

Pour a quart of boiling water over a half pound of 
sliced dried beef; let stand five minutes, then drain. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter in the granite pan, and 
put over the lighted lamp. When hot put in the beef, 
and stir until it begins to curl up; add half a teacupful 
of milk; thicken with a smooth paste, made with a 
teaspoonful of flour and some milk. Let boil up well, 
then serve. 



348 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Blanquette of Chicken 

One pint of cold chicken, cut in small pieces, one 
teacupful of sweet milk and cream mixed, one table- 
spoonful of butter, and one level full of flour ; salt and 
pepper to taste; one teaspoonful of essence of beef, 
yolk of an egg. Put the butter in the granite dish over 
the lighted lamp ; when melted, stir in the flour ; grad- 
ually add the milk and cream. When this boils up, 
add the chicken, well seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Place under this a pan of hot water, cover and cook 
ten minutes. Beat the egg well; add to it a little 
cream ; stir this into the chicken and cook one minute ; 
pour over a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and serve. 
Chicken stock may be substituted for the sweet milk. 

Hash 

Make a cream sauce in the chafing dish ; add to it 
two teaspoonfuls of mixed boiled chicken, or pork, and 
cook twenty minutes. Place in the dish over boiling 
water when the meat is added. 

Creamed Potatoes 

One pint of cold Irish potatoes sliced very thin, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one heaping teaspoonful 
of flour, three gills of milk, one teaspoonful of salt 
and one-fourth teaspoonful of white pepper. Put the 
butter in the granite dish over the lamp, when it melts 
add the flour and stir until smooth and frothy, then 
the milk slowly; season with salt and pepper. When 
the sauce boils up, add the potatoes and boil five min- 
iites, stirring once or twice; have lamp wicks low. 

Mushrooms Stewed 

Wash quickly some fresh mushrooms; remove the 
stalks. For a pint, place in the upper pan one table- 
spoonful of butter, cut the mushrooms into this, and 
sprinkle over them half a teaspoonful of pepper and 
one of salt. Have the wicks low, cook gently ten 
minutes, and serve on toast. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 349" 
Teal or Summer Duck 

Butter the duck quite thickly, and sprinkle with: 
salt and pepper. Put in the pan a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, a scant teaspoonful of Worcester or 
mushroom sauce and a little water. 

Put the duck in on top of the butter, etc., close 
tightly, and cook ten or twelve minutes, basting occa^ 
sionally. In preparing the duck for cooking, use as lit- 
tle water as possible and split the bird open as if you 
were going to broil it. 

Canned Tomatoes 

Put a tablespoonful of butter and a teaspoonful of 
flour in the upper dish. Stir over the lamp until the 
butter bubbles; add one pint of canned tomatoes, salt 
and pepper to taste. Cook for ten minutes, stirring 
frequently. A little sugar may be added if liked. 

Lamb's Kidney Saute 

Wash four kidneys, remove the skin and hard white 
cores, and cut them into thin round pieces. Have the 
lamp wicks low. Place the granite pan over the lamp, 
and put into it two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
teaspoonful of flour. Stir until the butter begins to 
bubble ; then put in the sliced kidneys, and season with 
a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Stir with a 
fork for three minutes, turning the pieces of kidney 
over. Now add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and 
a gill of cold water. Stir until the sauce begins to 
boil. The meat must never boil or fry rapidly, as a 
high temperature will harden it. Serve with toast. 
Instead of the lemon and water, there may be added 
to the kidney half a pint of stewed tomatoes, cold. 
When this begins to boil, serve at once. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette 

Prepare these just as one does "Little Pigs in 
Blankets," wrapping half a liver in each slice of bacon. 



350 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Venison Steak 

Cut the steak in inch thick slices. For one pound 
of steak put in the granite dish a heaping teaspoonfui 
of butter. Place over the lamp, and when the butter 
begins to brown lay in the steak and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Let cook for six minutes, turning 
four times. Keep covered while cooking. Serve on 
hot plates and serve with hot, fried potatoes, or with 
lemon, a clove, jelly and cayenne. 

Slices of rare, cold roast can be prepared as in the 
foregoing recipe, cooking four minutes. For venison, 
have the wicks of the lamp high. 

Deviled Oysters 

Put a tablespoonful of butter in the granite pan, 
light the lamp and keep the wick high ; when hot add a 
dozen oysters, four teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, one 
of salt, one of mustard and half saltspoonf ul of cayenne. 
Stir three minutes ; then serve on hot toast. 

Little Pigs in Blankets 

Cut slices of breakfast bacon so thin that one can 
see through them. Wrap an oyster in each slice of 
bacon, and fasten it with a wooden toothpick. Light 
the lamp, having the wicks rather high, and place the 
granite-ware dish over it. In a few seconds put in as 
many " little pigs" as will lie flat on the bottom of the 
pan. Turn constantly with a fork until they are brown 
on both sides; serve at once on slices of toast. With 
a dish of common size, six or eight can be cooked at a 
time. 

Oyster Saute 

Drain one quart of oysters and put them in the 
graniteware dish. Light the lamp and place the dish 
over it. Put in one teaspoonfui of salt, one-fourth of 
a teaspoonfui of pepper and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Stir the oysters until they begin to curl at the 
edges, then serve on slices of toast. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 351 

Curried Oysters, No. 1 

Put one solid quart of oysters in the upper pan 
and place this over the pan of hot water. Light the 
lamp and let the oysters cook until they curl at the 
edges. Then take off the pan and drain the liquor 
into a bowl. Now put into the granite-pan one table- 
spoonful of butter, one of flour and one slice of onion 
and one tablespoonful of curry powder. Stir until 
smooth and frothy; then gradually one cupful of the 
oyster broth and half a cupful of milk or cream, stir- 
ring constantly. Season with salt and cayenne to 
taste. Remove the onion. Let the sauce simmer 
three minutes, add the oysters and cook one minute 
longer. Serve at once. 

Curried Oysters, No. 2 

Drain one quart of oysters thoroughly. Heat for 
a few moments to draw out all superfluous liquor, and 
drain again. Set aside in a shallow dish. Mix to- 
gether with half a teacupf ul of butter, one teaspoonf ul 
of corn starch, one tablespoonful of curry powder, 
four tablespoonfuls of liquor from oysters, one tea- 
spoonful of scraped onion or onion juice. Heat this 
mixture in the chafing dish and gradually add two- 
thirds of a cupful of milk, with which has been mixed 
a small coffee-spoonful of salt. Stir hard until very 
smooth, add the oysters and cook for five or six 
minutes. Serve with rice croquettes. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

One medium sized lobster ; one-half pint of sheriy ; 
one-half pint sweet cream; one tablespoonful of com 
starch. Salt and cayenne to taste. Cut the lobster in 
small pieces, put in the pan and add the cream and 
sherry before lighting the lamp. When the mixture is 
heated add a large tablespoonful of corn starch to 
thicken the sauce. Add a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
and salt to taste. Cook until the sauce is sufficiently 
thickened. Garnish with sliced lemon. 



352 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

English Peas 

Drain a can of peas. Have in the chafing dish a 
tablespoonf ul of butter, a teaspoonf ul each of flour and 
sugar, a level one of salt. Place over the lighted lamp 
and stir until the butter begins to bubble, then add the 
peas and cook for five minutes, stirring with a fork. 
Then add half pint of rich milk and let simmer ten 
minutes with wicks low, stirring constantly. 

Creamed Lobster 

Half a pint of cream, one pint of lobster, cut into 
small pieces, one heaping tablespoonfui of butter, one 
level full of flour, a grain of cayenne, one teaspoonful 
of salt and one of lemon juice. Season the lobster 
with the cayenne and a little more than half the salt. 
Put the butter in the granite-ware dish and place over 
the lamp. When melted, add the flour, and stir until 
the mixture is smooth and frothy ; then gradually pour 
in the cream. When the sauce boils up stir in the 
lobster. Now put hot water, to the depth of one inch, 
in the lower pan. Set the upper pan on this and place 
all over the lamp. At the end of this time stir in the 
lemon juice and serve at once. 

Chafing Dish Birds 
Dress as for broiling one dozen birds. Place them 
in the chafing dish, add half a pound of soft cheese, 
broken into small bits ; scissors half dozen red peppers 
and scatter them over the birds. On each bird put a 
small piece of fresh butter; pour in the dish half tea- 
cupful of boiling water; cover and steam until tender. 
Replenish the water if necessary. When tender add 
the following preparation : In a large tumbler put two 
tablespoonf uls of Worcestershire sauce, the juice of 
one lemon, and fill the tumbler with port wine. In 
fifteen minutes add two cans of small mushrooms, 
which have been heated and drained, and three min- 
utes before serving add one teacupful of heavy cream. 
Serve on toast. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 353 

This recipe may be used on an ordinary range. 
When this is done, make a cream sauce (using the cup 
of cream), and stir it in the mushrooms. Turn this 
in halves of bell peppers, put bread crumbs on top 
and set in the oven ten minutes before ready to serve 
the birds. Serve half a pepper with each bird, the 
birds being served on crescents of toast, the gravy 
poured over them. 

Creamed Oysters 

Cook and drain one quart of oysters as directed in 
Curried Oysters, No. 2. Put one pint of milk or cream 
in the upper pan and place it over the pan of hot 
water. Cover, and cook until fine bubbles appear all 
over the surface. Mix one tablespoonful of flour with 
one-third of a cupful of milk. Stir this into the boil- 
ing liquid and cook five minutes; then a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, if milk is to be used, one tablespoonful 
of butter. Season the oysters with a little white pep- 
per and add the cream sauce. Serve at once. 

Soft Cream Omelet 

Heat in the chafing dish to the boiling point, one 
teaspoonful of butter, and one-half cupful of sweet 
milk. Beat six eggs very light, and add to this. As 
soon as the mixture begins to set, stir, and continue 
to stir until no liquid is left, it all having been trans- 
formed into a dehcious, flaky omelet. This can be 
cooked in five minutes. 

Beef and Eggs 

Soak a quarter of a pound of shaved, dried beef in 
a pint of water ten minutes ; then drain off the water. 
Beat four eggs. Put in a tablespoonful of butter in 
the granite dish and place over the lamp. When the 
butter is hot, add the beef and stir until the slices 
curl. Place the dish over the pan of water, and both 
over the lamp. Add the eggs, and stir until they 
become thick and creamy. Serve at once. 



354 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Fried Eggs 

Melt just enough butter to grease the pan; add the 
eggs, being careful not to break the yolks. Cover 
and cook until the whites are all set ; or longer if you 
like the yolks hard. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Break six or eight eggs into the upper pan of the 
chafing dish ; beat them well. Add four tablespoonf uls 
sweet milk, one of butter, and one level teaspoonful of 
salt. Have water in the under pan; light the lamp, 
place the egg mixture over the water, and let cook until 
done, stirring constantly. Serve at once. 

Welsh Rarebit 

Break two eggs in the upper pan ; beat them well, 
and add half a pound of soft cheese, broken into small 
bits, one tablespoonful of butter, salt, mustard, and 
cayenne to taste, and half a cupful of cream. Stir this 
mixture well. Put hot water in the under pan; place 
above it the pan containing the mixed ingredients. 
Light the lamp, stir the rarebit until the cheese is 
melted. Extinguish the lamp and serve immediately, 
on toasted crackers. 



Beefsteak 

Put a teaspoonful each of butter and Worcester 
sauce in the pan over the lamp. When hot, lay the 
steak in butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Cover closely, let cook three minutes, and turn over. 
It should be cooked ten minutes, being turned two or 
three times. Chops may be cooked in the same way, 
only less time will be required. When half done, pour 
over them one cupful of stewed tomatoes, in which a 
teaspoonful of flour and two tablespoonfuls of soup 
stock have been stewed. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 355 



CANDIES 



Cooked Fondant 

For cooked, as well as uncooked bon bons of the 
French varieties, a fondant, or cream, should first be 
prepared, which may be set aside to be used as wanted. 
For cooked creams, take four cupfuls of sugar and 
water on a fire until it reaches the thread degree, then 
remove the pan to a table. Now take a small spoonful 
and rub well against the side of a cake bowl, and if it 
is creamy and will roll into a ball between the fingers, 
pour the whole into the bowl and beat rapidly with a 
large spoon or potato masher. If it is not boiled 
enough to cream, set it back on the range and let it 
remain as long as necessary, taking care not to cook 
it too much. It can be made into rolls and sliced off, 
or packed in plates and sliced off, or worked into any 
form desired. If, in working, the cream hardens, set 
it back on the range and let it remain as long as neces- 
sary in boiling water. Keep well covered in waxed 
paper. Do not let it get sugary or coarse. 

English Walnut Cream 

Make French cream as previously directed. Have 
ready some English walnuts, using care not to break 
the meats. Make a ball of the cream about the size of 
a walnut, and place a half nut meat upon either side 
of the ball, pressing them into the cream. Lay aside 
a few hours to dry. 

Nut Creams 

Chop almonds, hickory nuts, butternuts, or English 
walnuts, quite fine. Take the French creams, and be- 
fore adding all the sugar, while the cream is quite soft, 
stir the nuts into it, and form into balls, bars or 
squares. Three or four kinds of nuts may be mixed 
together. 



356 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Uncooked Fondant for French Creams 

These candies are made without boiling, which 
makes them very desirable, and they are equal to the 
best French creams. The secret lies in the sugar used, 
which is the XXX powdered, or confectioner's sugar, 
and can be obtained at the large groceries. Ordinary 
powdered sugar, when rubbed between the thumb and 
finger, has a decided grain, but the regular confection- 
er's sugar is as fine as flour. These candies are better 
the day after making. 

Break into a bowl the white of one or more eggs, 
as the quantity you wish to make will require ; add to 
it an equal amount of cold water, then stir in sugar 
until stiff enough to mold into shape with the fingers. 
After it is formed into balls, cubes or lozenge shapes, 
lay them upon plates, or waxed paper, and set aside 
to dry. This cream is the foundation of all the French 
creams. 

Molasses Cream Drops 

Knead a half cupful of fondant until soft and 
creamy, then work into it a dozen almonds that have 
been chopped rather fine, then make a plain molasses 
taffy, pull it until soft and light, divide it into halves 
and roll one-half out into a cake about half an inch 
thick, then roll out the fondant, place it on top, then 
cover this with the remainder of the taffy rolled as 
before, thus having a layer of fondant between two 
layers of taffy. Press the layers firmly together and 
cut into strips a half inch wide, then cut the strips into 
small drops with a pair of scissors. If the taffy hard- 
ens too quickly, a tablespoonful of glycerine may be 
added to it while boiling. 

Cocoanut Drops 

Take one pound of desiccated cocoanut, half a pound 
of powdered sugar, and the white of an egg. Work 
all together, roll into little balls in the hand, bake on 
buttered tins. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 357 

Fondant 

Four teacupf uls granulated sugar, two teacupf uls of 
hot water, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Stir over slow fire until dissolved, but do not boil. 
After wiping off all the grainy edges, pour into a pan 
and boil until it makes a soft ball when tried in cold 
water. Set aside until it cools, then beat until creamy. 
When too stiff to beat, knead with the hands. Cut, 
or mold in desired shapes, and place between damp 
cloths. 

Crystallized Cherries, Etc. 

With a quill remove the seed, being careful not to 
mash the cherries. Make a syrup of half pint of water 
to each pound of sugar. Let it boil a few minutes; 
drop in cherries enough to cover the top of the syrup, 
and boil them five minutes. Take them from the 
syrup with a wire dipper, and place them on flat dishes 
and put them in the sun. Continue to add cherries 
to the syrup until all are boiled. If the syrup becomes 
thin, add more sugar, and begin with the first cherries 
and re-boil them until they are clear. Again spread 
on dishes and let them remain several hours m the sun. 
Then make a fresh, thick syrup. Dip the cherries in 
the beaten white of an egg, and then into the syrup, 
and put them in the sun until dry. Pack in boxes with 
oil paper between them. Other fruits may be crystal- 
lized in the same way. 

Cream Chocolate Drops 

Boil two cupf uls of sugar and a half cupful of water 
for five minutes. Add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, 
and beat all for an hour, until stiff enough to hold, 
then make it into balls. Take half a pound of un- 
sweetened chocolate, grate it and steam over a tea ket- 
tle, then drop the balls of cream, when hard, into it, 
one at a time; take them out, scrape off the cream 
that drops from them and place on a dish. Keep in a 
cool place. French creams may be used for the balls 
if preferred. 



358 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
Peppermint Creams 

Make the cream as directed for French cream, fla^ 
voring it quite strong with oil of peppermint. Take 
small bits of the cream and shape into round, flat 
forms. 

Some Good Chocolate Caramels 

One and a half cupfuls of grated chocolate, four 
c'upfuls of brown sugar, one and a half cupfuls of cold 
water, an egg-sized piece of butter, and two table- 
spoonfuls of acid vinegar. Boil this mixture on a stove 
pver a brisk fire until it becomes brittle on immersion 
in water. Do not stir, but shake the vessel while boil- 
ing. When finished, pour into a buttered and floured 
dish, and divide off into even squares while soft. A 
dash of lemon or vanilla, say two tablespoonfuls, gives 
the caramels a dainty flavor. 

Pop Corn Balls 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of brown sugar 
and a piece of butter the size of a small egg. Make 
the candy in a large kettle, pop the corn, salt it and 
sift it through the fingers, that the extra salt and 
unpopped corn may drop through. It will take four 
quarts or more of corn that is popped. Then stir all 
the corn into the kettle that the candy will take and 
heap it on buttered plates or make it into balls. 

Marshmallows 

Dissolve half a pound of white gumarabic in one 
pint of water. Strain and add half a pound of fine 
sugar and place over the fire, stirring constantly until 
the syrup is dissolved and all is of the consistency of 
honey. Add gradually the whites of four eggs well 
beaten. Stir the mixture until it becomes somewhat 
thin and does not adhere to the fingers. Then pour 
into a tin slightly dusted with powdered starch, and 
when cool, divide off into small squares. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 359 
Cocoanut Candy 

Make a "plain icing;" just before it cools stir in two 
cupfuls of grated cocoanut to each cupful of sugar 
used. Nuts may be used instead of cocoanut. 

Chocolate Nutballs 

Melt an ounce of granulated sugar until it turns a 
pale brown, add an ounce and a half of nuts of any 
kind, chopped fine, and stir over the fire for a few min- 
utes. Spread on a buttered dish to harden ; and when 
quite cold the candy is chopped and mixed with an equal 
quantity of French cream. Flavor with wine — or, if 
preferred, with vanilla, rose, orange, or lemon — and 
roll into marbles to be laid aside until somewhat hard- 
ened. Then melt some chocolate and proceed as for 
ordinary chocolate creams, a piece of fresh butter about 
as large as a hazelnut giving the chocolate a peculiar 
soft, rich taste. 

Cream Candy 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of 
water, one tablespoonf ul of butter ; flavor with vanilla. 
When thoroughly done, pull well, lay on a buttered dish 
and set it over a boiler, or on front of stove. After 
remaining there ten or fifteen minutes, it is well 
creamed and ready for eating. 

Conserve of Roses 

Take fresh rose petals, dip them in rose water; 
mash and boil the juice with an equal quantity of crys- 
tallized sugar; color the syrup with a few drops of 
cochineal, and just before taking it from the fire, drop 
into it, one by one, large, fresh rose petals. Remove 
them and put in a buttered dish in the sun to dry. 
When the syrup has all been used in this way, sift the 
sugar over the candied petal, and put in jars with 
brandied paper over them. 



360 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Cream Almonds 

Place a pound of selected almonds in a sieve, and 
hold it over the fire, shaking the almonds until they 
become quite hot. Have ready a syrup made of three 
cupf uls of granulated sugar, a pinch of cream of tartar, 
and a teacupful of water, the syrup being cooked until 
'a drop of it can be rolled into a soft, creamy ball in 
cold water. Remove it from the fire; and while one 
person shakes the sieve containing the hot almonds, 
another ix)urs the hot syrup slowly over them. By the 
time all the syrup is used, the almonds will have a 
fine, creamy coating. A large pan should be placed 
under the sieve to collect all the syrup that drips from 
it. This may be again heated with a little glucose 
and made into taffy, thus preventing any waste of 
material. 

Turkish Nougat 

Stir together two pounds and a half of pulverized 
sugar, two pounds of glucose, and a fourth of a pound 
of gelatin dissolved in hot water. Whip or beat the 
mixture until it becomes light and white, and then stir 
in slowly two pounds and a half of sugar (cooked to the 
ball.) Now mix in thoroughly two pounds and a half 
of almonds that have been previously blanched and 
dried. Line a box (on the bottom), with paper and 
pour in the candy, pressing it down to form a compact 
mass. Lay paraffine paper on the top, and set aside 
to become cold and dry. The nougat may then be read- 
ily slipped from the box and sliced neatly with a sharp 
knife. The slices should be wrapped in paraffine paper. 

Pulled Candy 

Two teacupfuls of granulated sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of white wine vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of water, one tablespoonful of butter. 

Boil over a quick fire until an amber color, then 
pour on buttered marble. Wash hands in cold water 
and pull the candy with the tips of the fingers until 
perfectly white, when it will be very porous. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 361 

Butter Scotch 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar. Boil 
until done, then stir in nearly half a cupful of butter. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Molasses Candy 

One cupful of New Orleans molasses, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one cupful of sugar, one ounce of 
melted butter. Mix all together and boil, without stir- 
ring, until it hardens when dropped in cold water; 
then add a teaspoonful of baking soda and pour into 
buttered tins; or, when cool, pull and cut into sticks. 
While pulling, brush the hands with butter or moisten 
them with iced water. 

Hoarhound Candy 

Boil two ounces of dried hoarhound in a pint and 
a half of water for about half an hour. Strain and 
add three and a half pounds of brown sugar. Boil 
over a hot fire until sufficiently hard; then pour out 
into flat, well greased tins, and divide off into sticks 
or small squares with a knife as soon as cool enough 
to retain its shape. 

Wintergreen Candy 

Use recipe for Hoarhound Candy, substituting Win- 
tergreen. 

Cough Drops 

Take two ounces of slippery elm bark and break it 
into small pieces, put it into a bowl, add two ounces 
of flaxseed, and pour over it a half pint of water; 
cover and put aside for one hour, stirring occasionally, 
then strain through a fine sieve. Put one and a half 
pounds of brown sugar into a granite saucepan; add 
this mucilaginous water, stir over the fire until the 
sugar is dissolved, then boil for five minutes ; add two 
tablepoonfuls of lemon juice and boil till brittle when 
dropped in cold water. Pour in square, greased tins, 
and when partly cold cut into square lozenges. 



362 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Almond Paste 

Place a pound of blanched almonds in a bowl, cover 
with water, and let them stand three or four hours. 
Pour off all the water and pound the almonds in a 
mortar to a smooth paste, adding occasionally a few 
drops of rose water to prevent oiling. Now place in 
the kettle four cupfuls of granulated sugar and one of 
water, boil until the syrup will snap when tested. 
Remove from the fire, add the almond paste, and stir 
continually until cold. The paste may now be rolled 
into little balls and dipped in melted fondant, forming 
a delicious bon-bon, or it may be mixed with an equal 
quantity of plain fondant, tinted to suit the taste, and 
made up in a variety of ways. 

Divinity Candy 

Boil two teacupfuls of granulated sugar dissolved 
in half a cupful of water, with half a cupful of corn 
syrup, until it will harden when dropped in cold water. 
Have ready the beaten whites of two eggs, and stir 
the candy into the eggs as in making icing. When all 
is in, beat hard until nearly cold, or until it begins to 
harden. Then drop in plates in desired quantities. 
Nuts may be added while beating, if desired. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 363 

BARBECUES and BRUNS- 
WICK STEWS 

To Barbecue Pork and Beef 

Dig a pit 14 inches deep. Put chunks of wood and 
make fire. When pit is hot take out blazing wood, 
leaving only embers. Lay 2x4 planks crosswise. Rod 
the meat and lay on planks meat side down. Do not 
let the meat get too hot at the start. Turn the meat 
every thirty minutes. At the third turning use salt 
to brown the meat. Ninety pounds of meat will re- 
quire about six hours to cook. 

Keep fire supplied with embers from another pit 
or from sticks of wood burning some distance from the 
meat. 

This is enough baste for 100 pounds of meat. 

Sauce 

V2 gal. vinegar 14 Tb each red and black pep- 

Vi lb salt per 

1 lb butter 

Put the vinegar in a pot and add pepper, salt and 
butter. Boil the sauce, cut the meat and pour the 
sauce over it. If not salty enough add more salt. 

Let the meat stay in the sauce an hour and a half 
before eating. 

To Barbecue Lamb or Other Meat 

Prepare a pit 16 inches deep to fit the length and 
width of the carcasses. Build a fire in the pit from 
seasoned oak wood. Burn down to hot embers. Re- 
move all wood, leaving only hot embers. Place fire 
near the pit and feed pit with hot embers. 

First wash the meat thoroughly in very salty water. 
String the lamb with small iron rods run through both 
fore and hind quarters. Place over the fire. After 
the meat begins to heat mop with salty water once or 
twice. Baste with the following sauce, constantly 
turning the meat: 



364 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

i Sauce 

1 qt. vinegar 1 lb butter 

2 bottles Worcester sauce 6 lemons 

Tobasco sauce to suit taste 5 lb strong onions (chopped) 

Boil the onions until they are almost dissolved. 
Add the vinegar, Worcester, butter, and Tobasco pep- 
per sauce to taste. Slice the lemons and add to the 
mixture. Let come to boil. Keep constantly hot while 
basting the meat. Apply with a long handled mop 
with clean cotton cloth dipped in the baste. Spread 
every time the carcass is turned. 

Do not let the meat burn, but brown well. When 
thoroughly cooked, chop the meat up with a cleaver, 
put it in a pan and pour the sauce over it, straining 
the sauce. Put the pan over the embers and keep hot, 
so that the sauce will steam up through the meat. 

The fire should be rather slow, taking from six to 
eight hours to cook seventy-five pounds of meat. The 
longer the period of time the better the meat. 

Brunswick Stew 

One can of corn, one chicken (boiled and chopped 
fine), one red pepper, two onions, one can of tomatoes. 

Cut onions and pepper fine, add chicken, tomatoes, 
corn, and boil in chicken stock until thick. Season, 
and serve hot. 



Brunswick Stew 

One pound of pork, cooked tender; 1 pound of veal, 
cooked tender ; 1 can of succotash ; 1 can of tomatoes ; 
1 stalk of celery; 1 large onion; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar ; 1 pod of red pepper ; 1 tablespoonf ul of sugar ; 
1 teacupful bread crumbs; 2 green peppers (if desired). 

Chop the meat, celery, onions and peppers fine; 
add other ingredients except bread crumbs, using these 
to thicken when the stew is about done. Cook in a 
boiler until the vegetables are done. Serve hot. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 365 
Brunswick Stew 

2 fat chickens 1 small clove of garlic 

1 lb clhopped smoked fat 1 bottle Worcester sauce 

meat (no lean) Salt and Cayenne pepper to 

o squirrels or taste 

2 rabbits 1 bottle Chili sauce 
4 lb onions 4 cans tomatoes 

2 cans com 

Turtle meat, when obtainable, makes a most excel- 
lent substitute for either rabbit or squirrel. 

Prepare the chickens, add the fat meat, the squirrel, 
rabbit, or turtle, add the onions and the clove of garlic. 
Boil until the onions and pork dissolve and the other 
meats are cooked to shreds. Dip the meat and bones 
out with a coarse strainer. If the meat is not thor- 
oughly shredded mash it in a crock with a potato 
masher. Put the meat back in the stock, discarding 
the bones. Add Worcestershire sauce, then add salt 
and pepper to taste. Add bottle of Chili sauce, and 
four cans of tomatoes. Boil well, constantly stirring to 
prevent scorching. When well boiled down add two 
cans of corn. Cook five minutes longer, and serve. 

This makes approximately two and a half gallons 
of stew. The ingredients may be scaled according to 
your requirements. This recipe has a national reputa- 
tion according to advices from a prominent Southern 
newspaper. 



366 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Food for Very Delicate Babies — Drs. S, A. McCosh and Chas. 

Pinkney 

This treatment has been found efficacious as food for deli- 
cate babies, when everything else has failed. In cases where all 
the prepared foods have been tried, with failure as a result, this 
has been used with wonderful success. For the sake of suffering 
babies, we give this prescription of the late Drs. McCosh and 
Pinkney, of Atlanta, Georgia: 

Prepared Whey 

Take a quart of fresh, rich, cow's milk, stir into it as much 
fresh pepsin (Fairchild's is best) as can be held easily on the 
point of a pocket knife, wet in a half teaspoonful of cold water. 
Put the milk over a lamp with a tiny point of the flame. Let 
it stand fifteen, twenty or thirty minutes until the milk is just 
blood warm, when it will form a firm clabber. Break the clab- 
ber, let it whey and then strain through a strong cloth. Press 
the curd gently until it begins- to get hard and then squeeze as 
hard as possible to get out all the cream. Give the baby six or 
eight tablespoonfuls with a tablespoonful of lime water and a 
very little bit of loaf sugar. Give it just milk warm. The lime 
water can be left out if the mucus in the bowels is not very 
great, but if the bowels are much inflamed, two tablespoonfuls 
of lime water will not hurt, but be beneficial. (Of course the 
lime must be well washed). Whey is not heat producing, and 
if the child is much reduced, the limbs should be rubbed once a 
day with whiskey or brandy. After the whey seems not to sat- 
isfy for two hours, and the condition of the bowels is improved, 
the food (milk, gelatine and arrowroot), may be given cautiously. 

Milk, Gelatine and Arrowroot Food 

Three sheets of gelatine put into two cupfuls of water. 
While it is dissolving, mix two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot with 
a little cold water; pour two teacupfuls of milk (rich as possi- 
ble) on the arrowroot and stir the milk and arrowroot into the 
boiling gelatined water. Stir the mixture frequently until it 
just comes to a good boil. Remove immediately and add two 
lumps of cut sugar. By saying rich milk, I do not mean milk 
that the cream has risen on, but fresh milk from the cow. After 
several weeks the milk can be slightly increased, and the arrow- 
root decreased to one teaspoonful. By no means increase the 
arrowroot, as too much starch will be harmful. Should the 
sheet gelatine not be used, two teaspoonfuls of shaved gelatine 
can be used. This is S/ufficient food for a day for a baby under a 
year old. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 367 

Excellent Remedy for Coughs 

One heaping ta'blespoonful of flax seed, boiled in two quarts 
of water until it thickens well, and there is one quart of tea; 
squeeze into this the juice of three lemons. Have powKiered 
fine, five cents worth of rock candy and five cents worth of 
licorice; stir into the the tea and dissolve thoroughly. Strain, 
and keep in a pitcher. Take a wineglassful when a coughing 
spell comes on. This will not keep any length of time; make 
fresh whenever necessary. 

Hot Sweet MUk 

When thoroughly chilled, hungry or tired, drink a cupful of 
hot sweet milk, and you will feel like a new person. It is as 
stimulating as wine. 

Croup 

Vaseline given in doses of an eighth of a teaspoonful every 
few minutes, until relieved, is a sure remedy. 

For Acute Tonsilitis 

Mop the throat with a weak solution of caustic, gargling 
immediately with salt water; meanwhile rub outside with tur- 
pentine and vaseline, and then apply a brown paper, saturated 
with chloroform; hold to the throat until it bums intensely; 
remove until it cools, then if not relieved, apply again. Cover 
the paper with a cloth. This gives very quick relief. 

For Severe Cold 

At night, take a very hot foot bath, drink a tumbler of hot, 
strong lemonade — a lemon to a tumbler of water — and get im- 
mediately into bed. If the chest or throat is sore, rub with 
turpentine and bind around the throat, or place on the chest a 
flannel cloth, on which sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of turpen- 
tine, melt two teaspoonfuls of mutton suet and sprinkle one 
of camphor. 

To Cure Itching 

Dilute (the medicinal) hydrocyanic acid, and sugar of lead, 
each two ounces; alcohol, three ounces; distilled or soft water, 
one pint. Dissolve the lead acetate in the water, then add the 
acid, and shake well; then the alcohol. Wet cloths, and lay 
upon the itching part, or apply with the finger — as the case 
will allow — frequently. The acid is poison. This is claimed to 
be magical in its quick relief of any itching. Do not use on 
open sores, or where the skin is broken. 

For the Hands 

One ounce of glycerine, one ounce of lemon juice, and one- 
half to one 'drachm of borax. 

For Bed Bugs 

Crude carbolic acid, applied frequently, with a feather, to 
every infected part. Fine, 



368 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Kerosene Emulsion 

The following is Prof. Riley's formula for kerosene emulsion, 
with particulars of manipulation by the same authority: 
Kerosene — ^Two gallons, 67 per cent. 
Common or whale oil soap — ^Half pound. 
Water — ^One gallon, 33 per cent. 

Heat the solution of soap, and add it boiling hot to the kero- 
seneu Churn the mixture by means of a force pump and a 
spraying nozzle for five or ten minutes. The emulsion, if per- 
fect, forms a cream which thickens on cooling, and should adhere 
without oiliness to the surface of glass. Dilute before using, 
one part of the emulsion with nine parts of water. The above 
formula gives three gallons of wash. No insecticide is equal 
to the kerosene emulsion against the plant lice. It is much 
more important to make the treatment thorough than it is to 
have a strong emulsion, a two per cent emulsion is as strong as 
ever need be used against plant lice if the application be thor- 
oughly made. Much weaker emulsions have given good results. 

Remedy for Hemorrhoids 

A salve made of two parts of pure lard, or axle grease, and 
one part of turpentine. Apply freely. No strong cathartic 
should be used when suffering thus. 

A Physician's Remedy for ^Chafing 

Combined with an antiseptic and healing substance, such as 
boric acid', the newer treatment is to cleanse the irritated sur- 
faces with tepid water, in which a small portion of the boric 
acid has been dissolved, and then dust them with a powder made 
after the following formula: Pure oxide of zinc, one-fourth of 
an ounce; pure silicate of magnesium (i. e., pure talc), one- 
eighth of an ouncei; English precipitated chalk, five-eighths of 
an ounce. The chalk may be perfumed or not, according to 
fancy. 

Cure for Nose Bleed 

Several severe cases of nose bleed have occurred at the Hos- 
pital of the University of Pennsylvania, and after trying every 
expedient without success. Dr. D. D. Agnew, as a last resortj 
tried ham fat. Two large cylinders of bacon were forced well 
up in the nostrils, resulting in almost immediate relief, and an 
entire cessation of the hemorrhage. 

How to Pack Silver 

Place in an air-tight case, with a good-sized piece of camphor. 

To Cool a Room 

Place in it a shallow vessel of cold water, and in a short 
time the temperature will be perceptibly lowered. 

In a case of fever, if a large tub of cold water is placed 
underneath the bed, the atmosphere will be purified and the 
patient greatly benefited. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 369 
How to Relieve Night-Sweats 

Sponge the body at night with very hot water. It is a 
great help also, toward toning up the skin to rub the body 
briskly in the morning with a bathing towel wrung out of 
salt water; the salt enters the pores and stimulates the blood 

to a healthy action. ^ ^^ u a 

Another remedy: Place a bowl of cold water under the bed. 

Cure for Baldness 

A strong tea made from the bark of the dogwood tree, 
and applied once a day, is remarkably effective. It must be 
rubbed in well. (Make the tea and bottle for use. 

Oatmeal Soap for the Complexion 
Take a quarter of a pound of white ca stile soap and melt 
with a v€ry gentle heat in sweet almo^j.^ oil, one ounce; then 
remove from fire and stir in one and a Half ounces of oatmeal; 
perfume slightly. This will keep the hands soft and white. 

To Keep the Handle From Chapping 

One ounce of bay rum, two of glycerine and three drops of 
carbolic acid; mix, shake well and apply when the hands are 
washed, just before they are dried. This keeps the skm beau- 
tifully smooth and white all the time. 

Violet Water 
Take same weight in fresh violets and alcohol; place in a 
large bottle, and cork tightly. Shake daily for ten days; then 
add a pint of rain water. Next strain and bottle. 

Cold Cream 

Melt together a drachm of beeswax, an ounce of sperma- 
ceti, and two ounces of almond oil; then add a little green cam- 
phor. Pour while warm in small jars, and set away to cool. 

Essence of Violets 

Produce three-quarters of a pound of Florentine orris root 
and an imperial pint of rectified spirits, and from these obtain 
by percolation a pint of essence. One of the simplest methods 
of percolation is as follows : Select a rather long, slender funnel, 
•an5 arrange in it a sheet of filtering paper, upon which place 
the orris root, making sure the paper is sufficiently large to 
obviate any likelihood of the powder falling or being washed 
over the edge, and thus rendering the essence muddy. Insert 
the funnel in the mouth of a large bottle; pour PPi/its upon the 
orris root, and let the liquid percolate slowly into the bottle. 
This is excellent and an economical method, the essence thus 
obtained being considered by many druggists and by the majority 
of consumers the most satisfactory perfume sold. 



370 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

Antidote for Mushroom Poisoning 

The physician called upon to treat a case of toadstool poison- 
ing need not wait to query after the variety eaten; he need not 
wish to see a sample. His first endeavor should be to ascertain 
the exact time elapsing between the eating of the toadstool and 
the first feeling of discomfort. If this time is within four or five 
hours, one of the minor poisons is at work, and rapid relief will 
be given by the administration of an emetic, followed by one or 
two moderate doses of sweet oil and whiskey in equal parts. 
Vinegar is effective as a substitute for oil. If from eight to 
twelve hours have elapsed, the physician may rest assured that 
amantitine is present, and should administer one-sixtieth grain 
of atropine at once. The atropine should be subcutaneously in- 
jected and the injection repeated every half hour until one-twen- 
tieth of a grain has been given, or the patient's life has been 
saved. 

Perfume for the Bath 

Mix together thoroughly an ounce of tincture of orris, an 
ounce of tincture of benzoin, ten drops of oil of neroli and ten 
drops of oil of lemon; and keep in a well corked bottle. When 
required for the bath, add a tablespoonful of the mixture to a 
pint of lukewarm water. It will turn the water white and 
will then emit its true perfume, whereas in the bottle its odor 
is anything but pleasant. After the bath with soap and water 
is completed, apply this scented wash all over the surface of 
the body by means of a soft cloth, and let it dry thoroughly. 
This addition to the bath will be found to impart not only a 
dainty sweetness to the person, but also a wonderful softness 
and smoothness to the skin. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 371 

MENUS 



A WEEK TO EACH MONTH 



FALL 



BREAKFAST — Celery on toast, pork chop5, corn meal muffins and coffee. 
DINNER — Bisque of lobster, baked sweetbreads, salted almonds, lady peas 

buttered, rice fritters, stewed corn, Graham bread, fruit gelatine (orangre 

or California grape). 
SUPPER — Oyster stew, cheesed crackers, butter toast, coffee and fruit. 

BREAKFAST — Cracked wheat, corn meal batter cakes, fried oysters, biscuit 

and coffee. 
DINNER — Chicken soup, broiled birds, trout, deviled ham, Boston baked 

bean.s, stewed salsify, mustard salad, corn bread and salt pickle, omelet 

souffle, grape fruit. 
SUPPER — Toasted crackers, chicken salad, a Yankee dish and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled tenderloin, broiled hominy, flour muffins, toasted 

cheese and coffee. 
DINNER — Baked fish with drawn butter, creamed potatoes, celery, peach 

mangoes, bread, Delmonico pudding. 
..SUPPER — Tongue toast, corn-meal battercakes, apple butter, biscuit and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Fried pig feet, brains, waffles and coffee. 

DINNER — Salsify soup, roast opossum with potatoes, onion pickle, asparagus 
on toast, dumpling stew, celery, plum sauce, cranberry puffs and crys- 
tallized figs. 

SUPPER — Dainty sandwiches, rice muffins, corned beef, preserves and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled steak, hominy, potato balls, griddle cakes. 

DINNER — Baked shad with egg sauce, cold mutton, canned peas, mashed 

potatoes, egg bread, stewed apples, caramel cake and coffee. 
SUPPER — Light rolls, smother-broiled chickens, potato salad, grape gelatine 

and ginger wafers. 

BREAKFAST — Beef and potato balls, buttered toast and poached eggs, hot 

muffins, coffee. 
DINNER — Vegetable soup, pork roast and turnips, sugared potatoes, baked 

tomatoes and rice, light bread, lemon custard and grapes. 
SUPPER — Broiled ham, beaten biscuit, creamed salmort, milk toast, prune 

float with cream, and tea-cakes. 

BREAKFAST — Waffles, mutton chops broiled, fried apples, chocolate. 
DINNER — Roast beef with potatoes, plain boiled rice, macaroni and cheese, 

square biscuit and cocoanut pudding. 
SUPPER — Cold tongue, light muffins, salad and snowflake.s. 



372 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BREAKFAST — Sausage, rolls, Graham muffins, chicken omelet and coffee. 
DINNER — Little pigs in blankets, tenderloin roast beef, baked potatoes, 

olives, brain croquettes with French toast (omitting sugar), mustard 

pickle, kiss pudding, and macaroons. 
SUPPER — Cold roast with mayonnaise No. 2, cold beaten biscuit, sugared 

cherries and sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled chicken, plain omelet, waffles, egg bread and coffee. 
DINNEIR — Corn soup, spare-rib roasted, salt codfish souffle, fried egg plants, 

scalloped tomatoes, cold slaw, cold bread, orange fritters and cocoanut 

tarts. 
SUPPER — Butter toast, cold spare-rib and blackberry shrub. 

BREAKFAST — Oranges, lamb chops, fried hominy, waffles and coffee. 

DINNER — ^Beef roast, duchess potatoes, celery salad, baked corn, haricot 
beans a la creme, crab-apple jelly and bread, hot cake with lemon sauce. 

SUPPER — Chicken livers en brochette, cream puffs, cold roast, beaten bis- 
cuit, or Graham bread, canned pears and cream, little cakes and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — California red grapes, baked hash, plain omelet, rolls and 
coff^, or chocolate. 

DINNER — Deviled oysters, celery, chicken and tomatoes. French fried pota- 
toes, baked macaroni, mustard cabbage pickle, bread, apple compote 
with fritters (No. 2), cheese. 

SUPPER — Broiled ham, or birds, biscuit, corn-meal muffins, ripe tomatoes, 
sweet pickle and coffee. 

•BREAKFAST — Irish potato croquettes, broiled ham, corn-meal battercakes and 
coffee. 

DINNER — Mock bisque, pork roast with sauce robert, egg salad, rolled bread 
and butter, Irish potatoes in jackets, onions boiled, corn bread, butter- 
milk pudding. 

SUPPER — Oyster sandwiches, cold pork, cinnamon bread, bananas and cream, 
blackberry shrub or sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Oatmeal, fried rabbit, fried sweet potatoes, rolls and coffee. 

DINNER — Cream pea soup, grouse (or other birds) au cresson, celery on 
toast, fried macaroni, sweet potatoes sliced and baked, olives, rye bread, 
chocolate pudding. 

SUPPER — Broiled steak, boiled hominy, flour muffins, egg bread, green to- 
mato preserves and coffee. 

JBREAKFAST — Pineapple fritters with powdered sugar, smother-broiled birds, 

plain omelet, rolls and coffee. 
DINNER — Chicken soup, fried smelts, potato scallops, spinach, cheese omelet, 

cinnamon bread (cold), olives, rice pudding with raisins. 
SUPPER — Pressed chicken, plain wafers, toasted muffins, almond tarts, stewed 

prunes and sweet milk. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 373 

BREAKFAST — Oranges, creamed mackerel, egg bread, flour battercakes and 

coffee. 
DINNER — Duchess soup, spiced or baked ham, boiled rice, stewed tomatoes or 

corn, young turnip salad, corn bread, green tomato pickle or sauce, lemon 

custards. 
SUPPER — Mackerel salad, fresh crackers, hot rolls and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Ham omelet, flour muffins, potato stew, biscuits and coffee. 
DINNER — Sweetbread pates, cold ham, cold slaw or mustard pickle, stewed 

salsify, creamed potatoes, bread and sweet potato pudding. 
SUPPER — Egg bread, deviled ham. plain biscuits, coffee and fruit. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled steak, French fried potatoes, flour waffles, corn<meaI 

muffins and chocolate, 
DINNER — Mock turtle soup, roast turkey with cranberry sauce, oyster salad, 

rolled bread and butter, with mustard filling, mushrooms or scalloped 

tomatoes, peas with cream, boiled rice, celery, fruit salad, plain cakes 

and macaroons. 
SUPPER — Creamed dried beef, cold pork roast, flour muffins, egg bread, 

small cakes and coffee. 

BRELA.KFAST — Ham or pork pie, milk toast, buckwheat cakes and honey, 

and chocolate. 
DINNEJR — Tomato soup, baked shad, fillet of beef with tomatoes, potatoes 

stuffed and baked in jackets, artichoke pickle, bread, celery, mince pie, 

cheese and coffee. 
SUPPEIR — Fish salad, plain wafers, egg bread, broiled steak, waffles and 

coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Milk hash, potato croquettes, lye hominy, buckwheat cakes 
with butter and powdered sugar, biscuit, coffee or chocolate, 

DINNER — White soup, crisped crackers, peppers sttiffed with chicken salad, 
mutton roast with horseradish sauce, parsnips and carrots, Boston baked 
beans, corn fritters, peach mangoes, Graham or plain bread, cocoanut 
custard. 

SUPPER — COLD roast broiled and buttered, flour muffins, Saratoga chips, 
egg bread and coffee, fruit or sweetmeats. 



WINTER 



BREAKFAST — Soda biscuit, broiled beefsteak, hominy bread, peach preserves, 

sweet wafers and coffee. 
DINNER — Baked chicken, duchess potatoes, boiled rice, square biscuit, celery, 

charlotte russe, and plain cake. 
SUPPER— Beaten biscuit, egg salad, cream puffs, coffee. 



374 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BREAKFAST — Grapes, chicken croquettes, flour muffins, chocolate and coffee. 
DINNER — Baked ham, corn pudding, cold slaw, sweet potatoes baked in skins, 

corn bread and apple roll. 
SUPPER — Boiled hominy, flour waffles, cold ham, tea or coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Oat meal, brains, soda biscuit, buckwheat cakes. South Geor- 
gia syrup and coffee, 
SUPPER — Plain wafers, flour muffins, honey, tea or coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Oranges, broiled breakfast bacon, plain omelet, biscuit, buck- 
wheat cakes, coffee. 

DINNER — ^Chicken stew with baked dumplings, boiled rice, sweet potatoes 
baked, cold ham served with mayonnaise No. 2, macaroni, bread, peach 
pies. 

SUPPER — Oyster stew, celery, crackers, and butter toast, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Dried beef broiled, buttermilk batter-cakes, fried sweet pota- 
toes, biscuit and coffee. 

DINNER — Mutton chops, grilled, cabbage boiled without meat, creamed Irish 
potatoes, green tomato pickle, corn bread, sweet potato pudding. 

SUPPER — Tea rolls, boiled beefsteak, blackberry jam, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Grapes, fried oysters, beaten biscuit, buckwheat, coffee or 

chocolate. 
DINNER — Baked shad, celery on toast, scalloped tomatoes, jellied chicken and 

cranberry sauce, cucumber pickles, fruit salad and lady fingers, coffee and 

cheese. 
SUPPER — (Cold.) Beaten biscuit, egg salad, fig preserves, sweet wafers, sweet 

milk. 

BREAKPAST — Oranges, toasted cheese, egg bread, buckwheat cakes and coffee. 

DINNER — Turnip salad and corn dodgers cooked with jowl, lady peas, baked 

sweet potatoes, artichoke pickle, corn bread, apple dumpling with lemon 

sauce. 
SUPPER — Corn meal battercakes, flour muffins, veal oysters, pear preserves 

and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Oatmeal, broiled mackerel, egg bread, biscuit and coffee. 
DINNER — Spare-rib roasted, English peas and Irish potatoes with cream 

gravy, plum sauce, celery, light bread, pineapple fritters. 
SUPPER — Mackerel salad, plain biscuit, cold oatmeal with sweet milk, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Grape fruit, broiled chicken, boiled hominy, buttermilk biscuit, 

coffee or chocolate. 
DINNER — Creamed lake salmon, rice pilau on toast, potato scallops, olives 

and light bread, and omelet souffle. 
SUPPER — Cheesed crackers. Graham muffin?, shrimp fritters, coffee and 

sweet milk. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 375 

BREAKFAST-Codfish balls, corn-meal battercakes. lye hominy, biscuits and 

C0ff6G 

DINNER— Corn soup, chicken and tomatoes, celery, Irish potato chips, lob- 
ster salad, warm biscuit, sour pickle, white fruit cake No. 2. and cheese. 
SUPPER-Cold souse, Welsh rarebit, plain biscuit, almond macaroons, coffee. 
BREAKFAST-Pork sausage, egg bread, lye hominy fritters, breakfast rolls 

and coffee. . 

DINNER— Pork roast with sweet potatoes, haricot beans a la cream, stewed 
salsify, pickle, mustard dressing, corn bread, sponge cake with wine sauce. 
SUPPER— Raw oysters, crackers, celery, cream puffs and coffee. 
BREAKFAST— Pig feet fried, cornmeal batter-cakes, rusks, coffee. 
DINNER— Pork roast with sweet potatoes, haricot beans a la creme. stewed 
salsify, asparagus on toast.' mustard cabbage pickle, horseradish sauce, 
corn bread, buttermilk fritters, with butter sauce. 
SUPPER-Cold roast broiled, toast, little hoe-cakes and butter, coffee or 

buttermilk. 
BREAKFAST-California grapes. French omelet, brain croquettes, plain bis- 
cuits and chocolate. 
DINNER-Beef prepared according to the French way. puree of mushrooms 
(use canned mushrooms if fresh cannot be gotten), peas, potato souffle, 
olives celery, light bread, almond charlotte russe, plain cake. 
SUPPER-Pate de fois gras. plain wafers, flour muffins, ripe tomato sweet 

pickle, coffee or tea. 
BREAKFAST-Liver pudding, waffles, boiled hominy, biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER-Crabs stuffed in peppers, cauliflower, asparagus on toast, French 
fried potatoes, artichoke sweet pickle, salted almonds, fruit gelatine, 
marshmallow cake, coffee, cheese. 
SUPPER-Cold bread, little hoe-cakes, cold ham deviled, preserves, coffee. 

BREAKFAST-Lye hominy, pork tenderloin steak, buckwheat cakes, plain 

biscuit, coffee or chocolate. 
DINNER-Beef soup, fried shrimps, with French fried potatoes, celery, 

etewed salsify, popper pickle, light bread, prune pudding. 
SUPPER-Curds with cream, French toast, cold ham. flour muffins . 
BREAKFAST-Grape fruit, milk hash, waffles, soda biscuit, boiled hominy. 

coffee or chocolate. 
DINNER-Baked opossum with sweet potatoes, ham pie, -f °f^^ ^^^^^^^ 

stewed corn, bread, cold slaw or mustard pickle, rice custard with raisms 

in it, coffee. ,„n„ i„nn 

SUPPER-Cold beef ^French), mayonnaise No. 2. cream puffs .ally lunn. 

peach preserves, coffee. 

BREAKFAST-Stewed birds with cream gravy, biscuit, corn-meal muffins. 

coffee or chocolate. , i.„_,o 

DINNER-Sweet-bread pates, potato croquettes, corn pudding, stewed toma- 
toes, square biscuit, watermelon rind sweet pickle, apple compote and 

fruit wafers (lemon). „^**^o 

SUPPER-Sardine salad, lye hominy fritters, waffles, or rolls and coffee. 



376 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BREAKFAST — Grape fruit, fried perch, egg bread, lye hominy, buttenailk 

biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER — Deviled oysters, celery, pork chops with sauce robert, cauliflower 

salad, bars of toast, creamed potatoes a ad peas, sour pickle, light bread* 

ambrosia, nut cake, coffee and cheese. 
SUPPER — Broiled steak, boiled hominy, flour muffins, pineapple preserves, 

macaroons and coffee or tea. 

BREAKFAST — Oranges, cutlets of calfs' brains, waffles, rolls and coffee. 
DINNER — Clear soup with ciroutons, creamed lake salmon, bread, chicken 

salad, creamed potatoes, olives, mince pie, cheese. 
SUPPER — Milk toast, chipped beef, flour muffins, canned cherries and sweet 

wafers, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Jolly boys, codfish batls. flour waffles, eggs stuffed and fried, 

coffee. 
DINNER — Oyster pie, mutton chops with tomato sauce, sweet potatoes sliced 

and baked, celery, light bread, almond charlotte russes, lady flngrers. 
SUPPER — Cold souse with mayonnaise dressing, plain biscuit, strawberry 

jam, macaroons and coffee, or sweet nnilk. 

BREAKFAST — Oranges, broiled spare-rib, corn-meal muffins, cheese toast, 
sweet potato biscuit and coffee. 

DINNER — Corn soup, beefsteak and kidney pudding, potatoes baked in jack- 
ets, stewed tomatoes, artichoke pickle, crackling bread, syllabub, jam and 
white caramel cakes. 

SUPPER — Chipped beef broiled, boiled hominy, soda biscuit, little hoe-cakes, 
coffee and cake. 

BREAKFAST — ^Baked hash, scrambled eggs, cream puffs, fried hominy, bis- 
cuit and coffee. 

DINNER — Pork roast with tomato sauce, lettuce salad, French fried pota- 
toes, boiled rice, boiled onions (young), light bread, banana? and cream. 

SUPPER — Cold roast, flour muffins, milk toast, com meal battercakes, pre- 
serves and coffee. 



SPRING 



BREAKFAST — ^Broiled chicken, plain omelet, rolls and coffee, 

DINNER — Salsify soup, veal chops, turnip salad with corn-meal dumplings, 

green tomato pickle, radishes, sweet potatoes baked, fruit gelatine and nut 

cake. 
SUPPER — Plain wafers, cold chicken, stewed prunes, cold rolls, coffee or 

sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Grape fruit, broiled breakfast bacon, waffles, fried eggs, bis- 
cuit and coffee. 

DINNER — Smother-broiled birds, scalloped tomatoes, potatoes with ham, sug- 
ared cherries, bread, canned peaches with whipped cream, macaroons. 

SUPPER — Pried apples, oysters in crackers, corn-meal muffins and tea. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 377 

BREAKFAST — Veal oysters, lye hominy, fried tripe, biscuit and coffee. 
DINNER — Roast beef, boiled rice, corn pudding, macaroni with tomatoes, 

olives, celery and bread, queen pudding. 
SUPPER — Cold beef broiled, flour muffins, fig pre3erve8. coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Little pigs in blankets, rice bread, rusks, coffee. 

DINNER — Fried chicken, cream potatoes, rice fritters, mayonnaise, radishes, 

cold bread, chow-chow, apple sago. 
SUPPER — Corn meal mush, plain biscuit, broiled beefsteak, coffee. 

BREAKFAST— Broiled ham, corn meal muffins, soft»boiled eggs, buttermilk 

biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER— Tomato soup, fried fish, lettuce salad, beef stew, Saratoga chips, 

olives, bread, sweet-potato pudding or custards. 
SUPPER — Frog legs, deviled ham, toasted crackers, egg bread, blackberry 

jam. 

BREAKFAST — Tenderloin steak broiled, corn meal muffins, flour waffles, 

plain omelet and coffee. 
DINNER — Cream pea soup, chicken and tomatoes, potato croquettes, stewed 

salsify, young turnips, crackling bread, mustard cabbage pickle, baked 

apples. 
SUPPER — Pineapple cheese sandwiches, shrimp salad, plain biscuit, and sweet 

milk. 

BREAKFAST — Stewed birds, cream puffs, plain biscuit, hominy and coffee. 
DINNER — Baked fish, potato souffle, Boston baked beans, a Spanish dish, 

radishes, peach sweet pickle, bread, orange fritters . 
SUPPER — A Yankee dish, egg bread, love-knots, stewed apricots, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Brains, waffles, plain biscuit, cracked wheat, coffee. 
DINNER— Back-bone stew, rutabaga turnips, grape jelly, sweet potatoes 

baked, macaroni and cheese, pickle, syrup custards. 
SUPPER— Broiled birds, cream toast, plain biscuit (sweet milk) and coffee. 

BREAKFAST— Fried apples, scalloped cheese, flour mufflns, egg bread and 

coffee. 

DINNER— Lobster farci, Irish potatoes baked in jackets, stewed salsify, let- 
tuce salad, light bread, olives, pineapple or orange fritters. 

SUPPER— Chipped beef broiled, Graham bread, batter-cakes, stewed prunes, 
sweet milk and coffee. 

BREAKFAST— Pork sausage, breakfast rolls, lye hominy, waffles and coffee. 
DINNER— Baked chicken, boiled rice, baked potatoes, scalloped tomatoes, 

ap.ple jelly, sour pickle, light bread, and scalloped apples. 
SUPPER— Broiled oysters, plain wafers, Graham muffins, biscuit and coffee. 

BREAKFAST— Grape fruit, rice bread, fried shrimps, biscuit and coffee. 
DINNER— Cream pea soup, fried chicken, English peas, mustard salad, roast 

beef, pepper sauce, corn bread, mustard pickle, fruit. 
SUPPER— Sardine salad with lettuce, plain wafers, butter toast, stewed 

prunes, coffee. 



378 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BREAKFAST — ^Broiled fish, hominy bread, French fried potatoes, waffles, 

coffee. 
DINNER — Rissoles of chicken, English peas and young potatoes with milk 

or cream gravy, scalloped tomatoes, olives, bread, Delmonico pudding. 
SUPPER — Pickle pig feet, plain biscuit cold, cheesed crackers, deviled eggs, 

coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled breakfast bacon, fried sweet potatoes, egg bread and 
coffee, 

DINNER — Baked kid, sweet potatoes sliced and baked, spring turnips and 
£\lad, rice fritters, corn pudding, corn breads tomato sauce, lemon 
custard. 

SUPPER — Cold kid, chipped beef, light bread, sweet wafers, peach pre- 
serves and sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Cracked wheat, fried chicken, corn meal batter cakes, biscuit 
and coffee. 

DINNER — Baked shad with English peas, mutton roast, corn fritters, crab- 
apple jelly, spinach and toast, cucumber salt pickle, boiled apple dumplings 

SUPPER — Tongue salad, cold Graham bread, flour muffins and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Clabber, pork chops, breakfast rolls, baked omelet, coffee. 
DINNER — Raw oysters, celery soup, spare-ribs roasted and acid jelly, stewed 

corn, young onions boiled and buttered, Graham bread, pepper pickle, 

almond pudding. _ 

SUPPER — Broiled ham, boiled hominy, corn meal batter cakes, coffee or 

sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Fried liver, hominy bread, French fried potatoes, waffles and 

coffee. 
DINNER— Bean soup, fried smelts, egg sandwiches, rice croquettes, potato 

snow, celery, cup custards and almond cake. 
SUPPER — Irish potato salad, broiled ham, corn meal muffins, boiled hominy, 

quince preserves, sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — BaTced hash, potato stew, fried hominy, waffles, soft-boiled 

eggs, coffee. 
DINNER — Cabbage pudding, beef roast, stewed tomatoes, early potatoes and 

English peas with milk, graA^, corn bread, sweet pickle, white sponge 

cake with chocolate. 
SUPPER — Beef salad, plain biscuit, peach preserves, sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Radishes, poached egg on toast, breakfast bacon, grits, corn 
meal battercakes. South Georgia syi-up, coffee and sweet milk. 

DINNER — Tomato soup, tenderloin steak with Irish potatoes French fried, 
sweet potatoes baked with sugar, chow-chow, buttermilk and corn bread, 
dried peach pie, lemon custard and coffee. 

SUPPER — Corn meal mush with butter, beaten biscuit, corn beef with may- 
onnaise No. 2, watermelon rind preserves, tea, sweet milk, tea-cakes. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 379 

BREAKFAST — Broiled spare-rib, little hoe-cakes, hominy, cream puffs, cof- 
fee. 

DiNNlElR — Trout with fried potatoes, chicken pie, asparagus on toast, corn 
fritters, artichoke pickle, bread, apple float, nut-cake. 

SUPPER — Flour muffins, broiled steak, coffee, pears with whipped cream 
and cake. 

BREAKFAST — Johnny-cake, fried chicken, flour waffles, boiled hominy, cof- 
fee. 

DINNER — Bean soup, scalloped salmon, roast beef, scalloped tomatoes, boiled 
onions and young potatoes or peas, bread, cranberry sauce, salt pickle. 

SUPPER — Sally Lunn, broiled beef, toasted cheese, preserves and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled mackerel, birds stewed with milk gravy, egg bread, 

plain biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER — Chicken gumbo, chicken salad, pickled eggs, celery on toast, 

creamed potatoes, macaroni with cheese, strawberry short cake. 
SUPPER — Mackerel salad, plain wafers, cold bread, almond macaroons, and 

chocolate. 

BREAKFAST — Strawberries, broiled chicken, rolls, waffles, and coffee. 
DINNER — Beef soup, fried sweet-breads, cauliflower, lamb roast, sweet po- 
tatoes sliced ana baked, mustard pickle, green peas, bread, kiss pudding. 
SUPPER — Oysters, corn meal muffins, blackberry jam. 

BREAKFAST — Milk hash, beaten biscuit, plain omelet, coffee. 

DINNER — Boiled ham, boiled rice, corn pudding, stewed tomatoes, bread, 
pepper pickle, baked custard. 

SUPPER — Cold ham, flour muffins, corn meal batter cakes, cake and pre- 
serves, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Rolls, spare-ribs broiled, hominy, flour batter-cakes and coffee. 
DINNER — Spring chicken dressed as terrapin, potato scallops, turnip salad, 

Georgia hoe-cake, sweet cabbage pickle, Graham bread, strawberries and 

cream, lady fingers. 
SUPPER — Grated ham or ham salad, cream puffs, egg bread, cherry preserves. 



SUMMER 



BREAKFAST — Cherries, rolls, fried chicken, corn meal batter-cakes, coffee. 
DINNER — Vegetable soup, mutton chops with tomato sauce, beef stew, Eng- 
lish peas, cold slaw, light bread, strawberries, sponge cake. 
SUPPER — Graham muffins, tongue toast, plain biscuit, stowed prunes, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Squabs, smother-broiled, tomato omelet, buttermilk biscuit, 

coffee. 
DINNER — Breaded spring chicken, fried rabbit, stewed squash, onion.? boiled 

in four waters, sliced tomatoes, rice pudding. 
SUPPER — Flour muffins, broiled steak, fruit and coffee. 



380 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BREAKFAST — Plums, rice bread, French fried potatoes, rabbit croquettes, 

biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER — Baked fish with Engrliah peas, roast beef, lettuce or eftdiT© salad 

with mustard dressing-, beets. Duchess potatoes, artichoke aweet pickle, 

corn bread, peaches and cream, sweet wafers. 
SUPPER — Buttered toast, fish sadwiches, boiled hominy, biscuit, co^ee. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled beef, French omelet or scrambled eggs, waffles, fried 
tomatoes, egg bread and coffee. 

DINNEIR — Asparagus soup with croutons, young chicken roasted, sliced to- 
matoes, English peas, boiled rice, cold bread, fruit salad, marshmallow 
cake, cheese. 

SUPPER — Tomatoes stuffed with chicken salad, cheesed crackers, flour muf- 
fins, sugared cherries, iced tea and sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Sally Lunn, Iamb chops, eggs and coffee. 

DINNER — Chicken stew with baked dumpling, baked ham, corn pudding, corn 

bread, salsify stewed, boiled rice, fruit, cake, and co?f.&e. 
SUPPER — Corn meal muffins, cold ham with mayonnaise, fresh crackers, 

coffee. 

BREAKFAST — ^Cantaloupes, rice croquettes, steak fried with onions, butter- 
milk biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER — Vegetable soup, ham pie, string beans, fried squash, corn bread, 

English peas, bread and pickle, cream meringue. 
SUPPER — Tomato mayonnaise, toasted muffins, corn meal batter-cakes, tea. 

BREAKFAST — Cantaloupes, iced ; baked hash, flour muffins, boiled hominy, 

egg bread, coffee. 
DINNER — Mutton roast with English peas, fried chicken, rice pilau on toast, 

bread, cabbage pickle, frozen strawberries, snow-flake crackers, coffee, 

cheese. 
SUPPER — ^Cold mutton, plain wafers, huckleberries, cake and sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — Broiled beefsteak with cucumbers, fried tripe, hominy bread, 

waffles and coffee. 
DINNER — Fried chicken a la Creole, ham croquettes, butterbeans, okra, rice 

fritters, bread and pickle, blackberry pies. 
SUPPER — Cream toast, plain omelet, biscuit, fruit and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Strawberries or cantaloupes, broiled breakfast bacon, fried 

eggs, ess bread, coffee. 
DINNER — Corn soup, baked kid, lettuce salad, potatoes with milk ffravy, 

broiled birds, cucumbers, butterbeans, light bread, fruit. 
SUPPiER — Cold kid, cinnamon bread, peaches and cream^, lady fingers or 

chocolate drops. 

BREAKFAST — Potato biscuit, French toast, veal oysters, coffee. 
DINNER — Creamed lake salmon, beef salad, olives, cucumbers, baked toma- 
toes, boiled okra, cinnamon bread, watermelon ice. 
SUPPER — Jellied veal, flour miufflns, egg bread, pears and cream. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 381 

BREIAKFAST — Parker House rolls, broiled chicken, corn meal battercakes, 

and coffee. 
DINNER — Soup, chicken pie, butterbeans, okra, stewed corn, etuffed tomatoes, 

cucumbers, bread, salted almonds, citron custards. 
SUPPER — Salmi of chicken, cheese straws, sliced tomatoes, berries and 

cream, ic«d tea. 

BREAKFAST — Curds with cream, flour muffins, beefsteak broiled with cu- 
cumbers, egg bread, coffee. 

DINNER — Cabbage boiled without meat and buttered, corn pudding, okra and 
tomatoes, corn bread, roast beef, pepper sauce, laplands. 

SUPPER — Salmagundi, plain biscuit, com meal muffins, fruit and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Raspberries, brain cutlets, flour muffins, rice bread, coffee. 
DINNER — Liver pudding, boiled rice, baked chicken, butterbeans, fried egg 

plant, stewed salsify, carrots and parsnips, beets, square biscuit, ice 

cream, macaroons, and plain wafers. 
SUPPER — Cold chicken, tomato mayonnaise, cold bread, iced tea. 

BREAKFAST — Watermelon, sweetbreads fried, potato stew, waffles, biscuit, 

coffee. 
DINNER — Chicken with tomatoes, sweetbread pates, asparagus on toast, sliced 

cucumbers, corn fritters, cold bread, chocolate moss, soft peaches, premium 

whit* cake, coffee. 
SUPPER — Milk toast, chipped beef tongue, cream puffs, coffee and fruit. 

BREAKFAST — Mutton cutlets with mushrooms, corn meal wafers, tomato 

omelet, plain biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER — Beefsteak and kidney pudding, egg plant fried in batter, pressed 

chicken, square biscuit, butterbeane. stewed corn, scuppernong jelly, figs 

and cream. 
SUPPER — Devilled eggs, sardine salad, cold biscuit, iced tea. 

BREAKFAST — Sliced tomatoes, broiled liver, brains, waffles, biscuit, coffee. 
DINNER — Mock turtle soup, fillet of beef with tomatoes, fried egg plant, 

boiled corn, cold slaw, pickle, light bread, ice cream, peach cake, and 

almond cake. 
SUPPER — Cold beef, pepper sauce, tea rolls, fruit and coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Scuppernongs, escalloped eggs, butter toast, little hoecakes, 

boiled hominy, coffee and sweet milk. 
DINNER — Apple soup with croutons, boiled and creamed perch, Worcester 

sauce, Saratoga chips, cauliflower, beets, cucumbers, butterbeans, bread. 

watermelon. 
SUPPER — Graham toast, broiled chicken, flour batter-cakes, sweet milk. 

BREAKFAST — ^Fried potatoes, chicken hash, waffles, corn muffins, coffee. 
DINNER — ^Beel* a la mode, salmagundi, French fried ham, stewed squash, 

butterbeane, beets, egg plant, creamed potatoes, corn bread, fritters and 

fruit syrup. 
SUPPER — Beefsteak broiled with cucumbt^rs. lea rusks, sugared fruits, iced 

tea. 



382 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 

BREAKFAST^Fried ham and eggs, corn meal muffins, Irish potato stew^ 
biscuit and coffee. 

DINNER — Mock oyster soup, baked chickens stuffed with Irish potato dress- 
ing, butterbeans, stewed tomatoes, egg plant, cucumbers, bread, m.ustard 
pickle. 

SUPPER — Irish potato salad, beaten biscuit, French toast, fruit, coffee. 

BREAKFAST — Spanish mackerel broiled, Parker House rolls, broiled ham, 

corn meal batter-cakes, coffee. 
DINNER — Chicken gumbo, mutton roast, salsify, salmon croquettes, fresh 

celery, boiled onions, cinnamon bread, mustard pickles, ice cream, fruit 

and cake. 
SUPPGER — Tomatoes stuffed with chicken salad, Sally Lunn, nonedescripts, 

coffee. 



CHRISTMAS DINNER 



Clear tomato soup 



Squares of toast 



Turkey and cranberries 



Oysters fried 


Celei-y 


Cheese souffle^ 


Pate de foi gras 


Rice 


Potato fingers 


Gravy 


Salted almonds 


Worcester sauce 


White fruit cake 


Ambrosia 


Currant cake 


Cheese 


Fruit 


Coffee 



SUMMER FIVE-O'CLOCK TEA 



Lobster salad, chicken sandwiches, rolled bread and butter, strawberries 
or peaches, vanilla ice cream, fancy cakes, coffee, iced tea and bon-bons. 



ORDINARY FIVE-O'CLOCK TEA 



Thin bread and butter, one kind of cake and tea. A sandwich filling 
spread between the bread would be nice to use occasionally. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 383 
FOUR LUNCHEONS 



Celery 



Fancy cakes 
Grapes 



FALL 



Oysters on half-shell 

Consomme 
Cutlets of calf brains 

Salted Almonds 

Peppers stuffed with crabs 

Banana ice cream 



Butter Beans 



Bon-bons 
Coffee 



Creamed lake salmon 
Asparagus 



Orange cup 



WINTER 

Mock bisque 



Broiled chicken 
Lettuce salad 



Sweetbread patea 
White sauce 



Cake 



Fresh green peas 

Tomato salad 

Nut cake 



SPRING 

Creamed oysters 
Spring lamb (or kid) chops 



Jelly 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Fruit salad 

Coffee 



Rice croquettes- 
Cheese straws 
Cream meringues 



SUMMER 



Creamed salsify 

Cheesed Crackers 

Ice cream 

Fruit wafers 



Clam broth in cups 
Veal oysters 

Pressed chicken 

Salmagundi 



Potato scallops 

Olives 

Peaches and cream. 
Coffee 



384 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 
TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



1 quart sifted Flour (well heaped), weighs 1 pound. 
S coffeecups sifted Flour (level), weigh 1 pound. 
I teacups sifted Flour (level), weigh 1 pound. 
1 quart unsTTled Flour weighs 1 pound 1 ounce. 
1 quart sifted Corn Meal weighs 1 pound 4 ounces. 
2% coffeecups Corn Meal (level), equal 1 quart. 
3% teacups Corn Meal (level) equal 1 quart. 

1 pint soft butter (well packed), weighs 1 pound . 

2 teacups soft Butter (well packed), weigh 1 pound. 

1 1-3 pints powdered Sugar weigh 1 pound. 

2 coffeecups powdered Sugar (level), weigh 1 pound. 

1 pint granulated Sugar (heaped), weighs 1 pound. 

2 teacups granulated Sugar (level), weigh 1 pound. 
1 pint coffee "A" Sugair weighs 12 ounces. 

1% teacups best brown Sugar (level), weigh 1 pound. 
2% teacups best brown Sugar (level), weigh 1 pound. 

1 tablespoon (well heaped), granulated, coffee, "A" or best brown Sugar, 1 

ounce. 

2 tablespoons (well rounded), of powdered Sugar or Flour weigh 1 ounce. 
1 tablespoon (well rouned), of soft butter, weighs 1 ounce. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



Soft Butter the size of an egg weighs 2 ounces. 

7 tablespoons granulated Sugar (heaping), equal 1 teacup. 

5 tablespoons sifted Flour r Meal (heaping), equal 1 teacup. 
2 tablespoons Butter (well heaped), equal 1 teacup. 

8 tablespoons Sweet Chocolate, grated, weigh 1 ounce. 

2 teaspoons (heaping), of Flour, Sugar or Meal, equal 1 heaping tablespooou 



LIQUIDS 



1 pint contains 16 fluid ounces — 4 gills. 

1 ounce contains 8 fluid drains — % gill. 

1 tablespoon contains about % fluid ounce. 

1 teaspoon contains about 1 fluid dram. 

4 teaspoons equal 1 tablespoon, or ^ fluid ounce. 

16 tablespoons equal V^ pint. 

1 wine-glassful (common size), equal 4 tablespoons, or 2 fluid ounces. 

1 teacupful equal 8 fluid ounces, or 2 gills. 

4 teacupfttls equal 1 quart 

A eonmoK tise tunbler holds about % pint. 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 385 
AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT 



16 drams (dr.) make 1 ounce (oz.) 
16 ounces make 1 pound (lb.) 
25 pounds make 1 quarter (qr.) 

4 quarters make 100-weight (cwt.) 
20 hundred- weight make 1 ton (T.) 



LIQUID MEASURE 



4 gills (gi.) make 1 pint (pt.) 
2 pints make 1 quart (qt.) 
4 quarts make 1 gallon (gal.) 



WEIGHTS OF ARTICLES 



Pounds Pounds 

Tea, chest 60-84 Fish, quintal 112 

Soap, box 75 Fish, barrel 200 

Soap, barrel 256 Peaches, dried, bushel 33 

Sugar, barrel 200-250 Butter, tub 84 

Salt, bushel 70 Butter, firkin 56 

Salt, barrel SYa bushels Beans, bushel 60 

Molasses, hhd. 130-150 gals. Pork, barrel 200 

Honey, gallon 12 Beef, firkin 100 

Flour, barrel, net, 196 Apples, dried, bushel 26 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 387 



INDEX 



Pagre No. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE 242 

Angel's Food Cake 242 

Angel Food 242 

Cup Cake 242 

Feather Cake 243 

APPLES 21 

Butter 22 

Chutney 24 

Cider Vinegar 23 

Jelly 22 

Preserves 21 

Spiced 24 

Sweet Pickle 22 

To Keep Cider Sweet 23 

To Preserve Ripe Apples 23 

Vinegar 23 

APPLES, CRAB 24 

Jelly 25 

Pickle 25 

Preserves 24 

APRICOTS 25 

Brandied 25 

Crystallized 26 

Jelly 26 

Preserved, Dried 26 

Preserves 25 

ARTICHOKE, Salad 192 

ASPARAGUS 216 

On Toast 216 

Salad 193 

Soup 110 

Tips on Toast 216 

To Serve Canned 216 

With Eggs 216 

BARBECUES 363 

Lamb 363 

Pork and Beef 363 

BATTERCAKES 93 

Breadcrumb Battercakes 96 

Buckwheat Cakes 96 

Buttermilk Battercakes 95 

Corn Meal, No. 1 93 

Corn Meal, No. 2 94 

Flour Battercakes 96 

Good Flour Battercakes 97 

Hominy Cakes 96 

Indian Griddle Cakes 94 

Sweet Milk 95 

Wheat Bread Sticks 94 

White Flour Griddle Cakes 95 

BEANS 226 

Baked 227 

Boston Baked 226 

Butter Beans 226 

Haricot a la Creme 226 

Soup 113 

BEEF 139 

Beef Essence 144 

Beef Juice for Children 139 

Beefsteak and Kidney Pudding_142 

Beef Tea 142 

Brains 143 



Page No. 

Broiled Liver _145 

Cold Beef, Broiled I_141 

Fillet of Beef with Tomatoes 142 

French Way to Prepare Beef __142 

Fried Tripe 145 

Genuine Bouilli 141 

Hamburg Steak 140 

How to Roast Beef 140 

Planked Steak 140 

Pot Roast 140 

Roast Beef No. 1 I139 

Roast Beef No. 2 139 

Tenderloin Prepared for Inva- 
lids 141 

Tenderloin Steak 145 

Veal Oysters 142 

BISCUIT 77 

Baking Powder, No. 1 78 

Baking Powder, No. 2 78 

Beaten 77 

Beaten (Sweet Milk) 77 

Biscuits 79 

Buttermilk 77 

Egg 81 

Favorite Naples 81 

Maryland Biscuit 78 

Peanut Butter 80 

Plain 77 

Potato 80 

Quick Cream 79 

Soda and Cream of Tartar, No.l_ 78 
Soda and Cream of Tartar, No.2_78 

Sweet Potato 81 

Very Light Buttermilk 77 

Wheat Gluten Flour 80 

BLACKBERRIES AND DEWBER- 
RIES 12 

Blackberry Cordial 12 

Blackberry Shrub 12 

Cordial 12 

Dry Wine 13 

To Can Berries IS 

Wine 13 

BREAD AND ROLLS 66 

Bran Bread 73 

Bread. No. 1 67 

Bread, No. 2 68 

Bread or Rolls 67 

Bread with Compressed Yeast 70 

Breakfast Rolls 66 

Brown Bread 74 

Brown Bread 76 

Delicious Popovers 75 

French Rolls 75 

Health Bread 70 

Home Made Rolls 68 

Milk Yeast Bread. No. 1 66 

Milk Yeast Bread. No. 2 66 

Nut Bread 72 

Nut Bread 73 

Nut Bread 76 

Nut Cakes 71 



388 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



Page No. 
BREAD AND ROLLS— Contd. 

Old Virginia Loaf 69 

Parker House Breakfast Rolls 69 

Plate Tea Rolls 72 

Pop-Overs 72 

Rice Popovers 74 

Rolls 76 

Rye Bread 75 

Rusks for Morning Table 74 

Sally Lunn 70 

Sally Lunn, with Yeast 70 

Salt Rising Bread 66 

Salt Rising Bread 73 

Scotch Cakes 71 

Tea Rolls 69 

Twist 72 

BREADS 63 

BROCCULI 230 

BRUNSWICK STEWS 363 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 230 

CABBAGE 228 

Boiled Without Meat 224 

Boiled Whole 224 

Cold Slaw 193 

Cold Slaw, No. 1 224 

Cold Slaw, No. 2 225 

Pudding 223 

Stewed 224 

Stuffed 223 

CAKES 237 

CARROTS — See Parsnips. 

CANAPES 100 

Anchovy 100 

Caviar 101 

Cheese 101 

Clam Toast 101 

Ham 100 

Tomato Toast 101 

CANDIES 355 

Almond Paste 362 

Butter Scotch 361 

Chocolate Nutballs 359 

Cocoanut Candy 359 

Cocoanut Drops 356 

Cooked Fondant 355 

Conserve of Roses 359 

Cough Drops 361 

Cream Almonds 360 

Cream Candy 359 

Cream Chocolate Drops 357 

Crystallized Cherries, Etc. 357 

Divinity Candy 362 

English Walnut Cream 355 

Fondant 357 

Hoarhound Candy 361 

Marshmallows 358 

Molasses Candy 361 

Molasses Cream Drops 356 

Nut Creams 355 

Peppermint Creams 358 

Pop Com Balls 358 

Pulled Candy 360 

Some Good Chocolate Caramels_358 

Turkish Nougat 360 

Uncooked Fondant for French 

Creams 356 

Wintergreen Candy 361 



Page No. 
CANNING 5 

Butter Beans 8 

Canned Tomatoes 7 

Cherries, Canned 20 

Corn Canned in the Ear 7 

Corn, Okra and Tomatoes 7 

English Peas 7 

Okra 7 

Peaches 32 

Peaches, in Tin 38 

Pears 33 

Squashes and Sweet Potatoes 7 

To Can Berries 13 

To Can Corn 6 

To Can Snap Beans 8 

CANTALOUPES 38 

Crystallized, 38 

Preserves 38 

CARAMEL CAKE 251 

CAULIFLOWER 225 

Salad 193 

CATSUPS 53 

Grape 45 

Red Pepper, No. 1 60 

Red Pepper No. 2 60 

Scuppornong . 42 

Tomato 62 

Tomato, No. 1 51 

Tomato, No. 2 51 

Tomato, No. 3 52 

Walnut 58 

CELERY 225 

Creamed 225 

On Toast 225 

Raw 225 

Soup 113 

Soup 117 

CHAFING DISH RECIPES 346 

Beef and Eggs 353 

Beefsteak 354 

Blanquette of Chicken 348 

Bombay Toast 346 

Canned Tomatoes 349 

Chafing Dish Birds 352 

Chicken Livers en Brochette — 349 

Chicken Sandwiches 347 

Creamed Dried Beef 347 

Creamed Lobster 352 

Creamed Oysters 353 

Creamed Potatoes 348 

Curried Oysters, No. 1 351 

Curried Oysters, No. 2 351 

Deviled Oysters 350 

English Peas 352 

Fried Eggs 354 

Hash 348 

Lamb's Kidney Saute 349 

Little Pigs in Blankets 350 

Lobster a la Newburg 351 

Mushrooms Stewed 348 

Oyster Saute 350 

Scrambled Eggs 354 

Soft Cream Omelet —353 

Teal or Summer Duck 349 

Venison Steak 350 

Welsh Rarebit 354 

CHARLOTTES 281 

Almond Charlotte 283 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 389 



Page No. 
CHARLOTTES— Contd. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 1 281 

Charlotte Russe, No. 2 281 

Fruit Charlotte 281 

Strawberry Charlotte 283 

White Charlotte 282 

White Charlotte Russe 282 

CHERRIES 20 

Brandied, No. 1 21 

Brandied, No. 2 21 

Canned 20 

Jelly 21 

Preserves 21 

Sweet Pickle 21 

CHICKEN 

Baked Chicken 154 

Breaded Spring Chicken 154 

Broiled Chicken 157 

Chicken a la Marengo 155 

Chicken and Tomatoes 159 

Chicken Croquettes 154 

Chicken Jelly 153 

Chicken Pie 158 

Chicken Pilau 155 

Chicken Salad 160 

Chicken Salad, No. 1 195 

Chicken Salad, No. 2 195 

Chicken Salad, No. 3 195 

Chicken Steak 152 

Chicken Stew With Baked 

Dumplings 158 

Chicken Terrapin, in Timbales__163 

Creamed Chicken 159 

Creamed Chicken and Mush- 
rooms 164 

Deviled Chicken 157 

Deviled Chicken in Peppers 158 

Dressed Chicken 155 

Fried Chicken 160 

Fried Chicken a la Creole 153 

Fried Chicken with Mayonnaise_156 

Fried with Tomatoes 152 

Good Chicken Pie 159 

Imitation Pate de Foie Gras __153 

Old Virginia Chicken Pie 159 

Pressed Chicken 152 

Rissoles of Chicken 153 

Smother-Broiled Chicken 156 

Spring Chicken Dressed as Ter- 
rapin 156 

To Broil Chicken 161 

To Smother-Broil Chicken 157 

CHRISTMAS DINNER 382 

CITRON CAKE 250 

CLAMS, SEE SHELL FISH 

COCOANUTS 47 

COOKIES 261 

CORN 229 

Baked Corn 229 

Canned Corn 230 

Corn Fritters, No. 1 229 

Corn Fritters, No. 2 229 

Corn Pudding 229 

Green Corn Cakes ___229 

Roasted Corn 230 

Succotash 230 



Page No. 

CORN MEAL BREAD 88 

Corn Meal Bread Sticks 89 

Georgia Hoe-Cake 89 

Hot Corn Bread 89 

Johnny Cake 89 

Sweet Potato Johnny Cake 88 

CRACKERS 81 

Light and Dainty 82 

Premium 81 

Premium 82 

CREAM SOUP 109 

Asparagus no 

Bean 113 

Celery 113 

Celery 117 

Cerealine 109 

Chicken Gumbo, No. 1 116 

Chicken Gumbo, No. 2 116 

Chicken II5 

Clam Chowder with Milk or 

Tomato 112 

Crab Gumbo 115 

Cream of Pea 110 

Cream of Pea 112 

Cream of Potato 111 

Cream Pea 111 

Delicious Corn , 114 

Duchess 113 

Green Pea ill 

Lobster Bisque 118 

Mock Bisque, No. 1 117 

Mock Bisque, No. 2 117 

Mock Oyster 110 

Mock Turtle 117 

Oyster Stew HO 

Potato Soup 114 

Puree of Chestnuts 109 

Rice 109 

Salsify, No. 1 112 

Salsify, No. 2 113 

Tomato Bisque 111 

Turtle . 116 

White 114 

CUCUMBERS 222 

Fried 222 

Jelly 190 

Salad 192 

Sandwich 178 

Sauce, No. 1 188 

Sauce, No. 2 188 

Stuffed and Stewed 223 

CURRANTS 17 

Red Currant Jelly 17 

Spiced 17 

CUSTARDS 300 

Apple 301 

Boiled 301 

Citron 301 

Cocoanut 303 

Cup 300 

Jelly 303 

Lemon 302 

Lemon, No. 1 302 

Lemon, No. 2 302 

Lemon 303 



390 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



Page No. 
CUSTARDS— Contd. 

Peach 303 

Pineapple 303 

Sweet Potato 300 

Syrup 301 

DAINTY DISHES FOR LUNCH, 

TEA AND PICNICS 325 

A Mexican Dish 337 

Anchovy Fingers 336 

Anchovy Paste 331 

A Nice Way to Use Cold Meat__333 

Apple Sago 339 

A Spanish Dish 340 

Aspic Jelly 338 

A Very Nice Relish 339 

A Yankee Dish 341 

Beef a la Mode 332 

Beef Loaf 332 

Boned Turkey with Fruit Jelly_333 

Brain Croquettes 330 

Canned Luncheon Beef or 

Tongue 327 

Celery in Mock Aspic 326 

Cheese Blocks 339 

Cheesed Crackers 342 

Cheese Souffles 341 

Cotolettes en Papillote 331 

Cranberry Puffs 345 

Cream Meringues 343 

Cream Puffs 343 

Curds with Cream 339 

Cutlets of Calves' Brains 330 

Deviled Crabs 335 

Deviled Ham 325 

Eggs and Oysters 33b 

Fig Eclairs 331 

Fish Patties 333 

French Puffs 345 

Frog Legs 334 

Ham Croquettes 330 

Ham Fingers 326 

Jellied Veal 334 

Laplands 344 

Larded Sweetbreads with French 

Peas 327 

Liver Pudding 334 

Lobster Salad 336 

Love Knots 344 

Luncheon Eggs 33b 

Mayonnaise of Cod 333 

Meringues 345 

Milk Luncheon or Tea 342 

Mutton Cutlets with Mushrooms_332 

Non de Scripts, No. 1 343 

Non de Scripts, No. 2 343 

Oyster Cocktail 328 

Pate de Foie Gras — Home Made_334 

Pickled Fish 33b 

Potted Chicken 329 

Puree of Mushrooms 332 

Rich Croquettes 329 

Rolled Bread and Butter 344 

Sallie Lunn 342 

Salmagundi 338 

Salmi of Chicken 328 

Salted Almonds 341 

Sandwich Filling 348 

Savory Cheese Pie 342 



Page No. 

Scalloped Cheese 342 

Small Savory Molds 336 

Stuffed Tomatoes 340 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms 
Creamed — Served in Patty 

Shells or Timbales 329 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 327 

Timbales 327 

Tomato Mayonnaise 338 

To Serve Broiled Squab — for a 

Meat Course 326 

Welsh Rarebit 341 

DANDELIONS 231 

271 



DESSERTS 

DESSERTS, Unclassified 305-318 

Almond Cream 307 

Ambrosia 305 

Apple Compote 317 

Apple Float 310 

Apple, Peach, or Banana Frit- 
ters 316 

Apple Roll 314 

Apples, Baked with Raisins 314 

Arrowroot Jelly 305 

Baked Apple Dumpling 315 

Baked Apples 315 

Baked Peaches 315 

Baked Quinces 316 

Bananas and Cream 308 

Banana Fritters Supreme 317 

Banana Salad 313 

Boiled Apple Dumpling 313 

Cornucopias 308 

Cream Puffs 312 

Date Dessert 307 

Delicate Fritter Batter 317 

Egg Cream 307 

Escalloped Apples 312 

Figs and Cream 310 

Fritters, No. 1 318 

Fritters, No. 2 318 

Fritters, No. 3 318 

Frozen Salad 313 

Fruit Gelatin 311 

Fruit Salad 312 

Fruit Salad 306 

Fruit Salad in Peach Skins_-_31S 

German Puffs 809 

Lemon Gelatine 309 

Omelet Souffle 307 

Orange Cup 309 

Orange Fritters 318 

Orange Fritters 306 

Peach Cobbler 307 

Peach Whip, with Sponge Cake_306 

Pineapple Fritters 318 

Prune Jelly 810 

Puffet 305 

Ribbon Jelly 311 

Rice Cream 306 

Sliced Pineapple 312 

Spanish Fritters 318 

Strawberries for Breakfast 308 

Strawberries with Whipped 

Cream 308 

Strawberry Pyramid 308 

Strawberry Meringue 310 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 391 



Page No, 
DESSERTS, Unclassifled— Contd. 

Strawberry Tapioca 308 

Stewed Apricots 311 

Stewed Prunes 311 

Stuffed Apple, with Whipped 

Cream 305 

Syllabub 310 

To Fry Apples 315 

To Fry Green Tomatoes 316 

To Fry Peaches 316 

Wine Gelatin 311 

DEVIL'S FOOD CHOCOLATE 

CAKE 251 

DEWBERRIES 12 

EGGS 202 

Au Gratin 202 

Baked in Irish Potatoes 205 

Baked, No. 1 204 

Baked, No. 2 204 

Baked with Cheese 206 

Curried 207 

Deviled 205 

E^gnog 206 

Escalloped 206 

Escalloped, No. 1 204 

Escalloped, No. 2 204 

Hard-Boiled 206 

Hot Milk for Invalids 204 

On Toast 205 

Pickled 206 

Poached 203 

Roasted Eggs 204 

Scrambled, No. 1 203 

Scrambled. No. 2 203 

Srambled with Salmon 203 

Soft Boiled 203 

Soft Boiled for Invalids 203 

Stuffed and Fried 205 

EGG PLANT 221 

Fried 222 

Fried in Batter 221 

To Cook 221 

ENGLISH PEAS 216 

Canned 217 

Cream of Pea Soup 112 

Cream Soup 110 

Cream Soup 111 

English Peas and Irish Potaoes 

with Cream Gravy 217 

Green Pea Soup 111 

To Cook Dried 216 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE 249 

FIGS 39 

Another Way to Dry Figs 40 

Crystallized 41 

Preserves 39 

Preserves 41 

Sweet Pickled 40 

To Dry Figs 40 

FISH 120 

Boiled or Creamed Perch 122 

Breakfast Shrimps 124 

Broiled Smoked Herrings 123 

Crab Newburg 127 

Crawfish 127 

Crawfish Bordelaise 127 

Creamed Mackerel 123 

Fish Croquettes 177 



Page No. 

Fish Loaf 123 

Fish Rolls 125 

Fried Smelts 124 

Lobster a la Newburg 125 

Lobster Newburg 126 

Lobster Souffle 126 

Oyster Newburg 127 

Salmon, Baked 122 

Salmon, Creamed 121 

Salmon, Scalloped 121 

Salt Codfish Souffle .__124 

Shad, Baked 120 

Shad, Planked 120 

Shad, Fried 121 

Shrimps, Fried 124 

Shrimp Fricasse 126 

Shrimp Fritters 125 

To Pickle Shrimp 126 

To Freshen Salt Fish 123 

FISH, SHELL 127 

FIVE O'CLOCK TEA, Ordinary__382 

FIVE O'CLOCK TEA, Summer 382 

FOUR LUNCHEONS 383 

FOWLS AND GAME 151 

Baked Chicken 154 

Boned Turkey 165 

Breaded Spring Chicken 154 

Broiled Chicken 157 

Canvas Back Duck 162 

Chestnut Stuffing for Turkey__165 

Chicken a la Marengo 155 

Chicken and Tomatoes 159 

Chicken Croquettes 154 

Chicken Jelly 153 

Chicken Loaf 164 

Chicken Pie 158 

Chicken Pilau 155 

Chicken Salad 160 

Chicken Steak 152 

Chicken Stew With Baked 

Dumplings 158 

Chicken Terrapin, in Timbalcs 163 

Creamed Chicken 159 

Creamed Chicken and Mush- 
rooms 164 

Creamed Oysters 161 

Fried Chicken a la Creole 153 

Deviled Chicken 157 

Deviled Chicken in Peppers 158 

Dressed Chicken 155 

Fricassed Rabbit 167 

Fried Bread Crumbs 168 

FVied Chicken 160 

Fried Chicken and Tomatoes 152 

Fried Chicken with Mayonnaise. 156 

Fried Rabbit 168 

Good Chicken Pie 159 

Grouse au Cresson 167 

Imitation Pate de Foie Gras 153 

Meat Glaze 152 

Old Virginia Chicken Pie 159 

O'Possum 167 

'Possum Roasted with Sweet Po- 
tatoes 168 

Pressed Chicken 152 

Rissoles of Chicken 153 

Roast Duck with Olive Sauce 163 

Roast Turkey 162 



392 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



Pasre No. 

FOWLS AND GAME— Contd. 

Roast Wild Turkey 165 

Selection of Poultry — 151 

Smother-Broiled Birds 168 

Smother-Broiled Chicken 156 

Spring Chicken Dressed as Ter- 
rapin 156 

Squabs (Young Pigeons) 168 

Stewed Birds, Served with 

Cream Sauce 168 

Stewed Possum 168 

Sweetbread Stuffing for Turkey 

or Chicken 162 

To Broil Chicken 161 

To Smother-Broil Chicken 157 

Venison 167 

Water Cress Garnish 166 

FRUIT CAKE 244 

A Cheap Fruit Cake 244 

Cocoanut Cake 247 

Coventry Fruit Cake 247 

Fruit Cake 245 

Little White Fruit Cake 244 

My Premium Fruit Cake 245 

Raisin Cake 247 

White Fruit Cake, No. 1 246 

White Fruit Cake, No. 2 247 

GOLD CAKE 239 

No. 1 240 

No. 2 240 

Old Fashioned Gold Cake 239 

Premium Gold Cake 239 

GRAPES 43 

Catsup 45 

For Winter Use 45 

Jelly 44 

Light Wine 44 

Unfermented Wine 44 

Wine 43 

HAM 183 

Baked Ham 134 

Boiled Ham 133 

Broiled Ham 134 

Fried Ham 135 

Ham Boiled in Wine 133 

Ham Pie 134 

Spiced Ham 133 

To Cut a Ham for Frying and 

Broiling 134 

To Devil Cold Ham 135 

HASHES AND STEWS 169 

Baked Hash No. 1 169 

Baked Hash No. 2 169 

Beef Stew No. 1 170 

Beef Stew No. 2 170 

Dry Hash 171 

Dumpling Stew 170 

Egg Broth 170 

Hash and Toast 170 

Irish Potato Stew 171 

Milk Hash 169 

HOMINY AND MUSH 97 

Baked Hominy, No, 1 98 

Baked Hominy, No. 2 98 

Big Hominy or Lye Hominy — 97 
Corn Meal Gruel for Invalids. 98 

Fine Grits, Boiled 97 

Fried Hominy 98 



Page No. 

Lye Hominy Fritters 97 

Mush 98 

HOT AND COLD DRINKS 322 

Baker's Chocolate 323 

Coffee (After Dinner) 323 

Coffee for Three 323 

Delicious Morning Chocolate 323 

How to Parch Coffee 322 

Huyler's Chocolate 324 

Ice Tea and Coffee 325 

Lemon Beer 325 

Shrubs 324 

Southern Negus 325 

Sparkling Lemonade 324 

Strawberry Sherbet 324 

Tea, No. 2 324 

To Make Tea 324 

HUCKLEBERRIES 17 

Cordial 17 

Jam 17 

Jelly 18 

Pickle 18 

ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS-271 

Angel Parfait 276 

Banana Ice Cream 272 

Bavarian Ice Cream 271 

Bisque Cream 272 

Buttermilk Ice Cream 273 

Cafe Parfait, No. 1 275 

Cafe Parfait, No. 2 275 

Chocolate Moss 274 

Condensed Milk Ice Cream 273 

Cream de Menthe Sherbet 275 

Frozen Peaches 274 

Frozen Strawberries 274 

Ice Cream for Invalids 272 

Ice Cream, No. 1 272 

Ice Cream, No. 2 273 

Ice Cream, No. 3 273 

Maple Mousse 275 

Milk Sherbet 274 

Mousse 276 

Peach Cream, No. 1 276 

Peach Cream, No. 2 277 

Peach Sherbet 277 

Pineapple Ice Cream 272 

Pineapple Mousse 275 

Oi-ange Water Ice 276 

Sherbet 273 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 274 

Strawberry Ice 271 

Strawberry Parfait 277 

Tutti Frutti 273 

Vanilla Cream 271 

Watermelon Ice 271 

ICINGS AND FILLING 258 

Almond Filling for Layer Cake_259 

Chocolate Filling 259 

Chocolate Icing 258 

Chocolate or Caramel Filling — 258 

Icing for Raisin Cake 259 

Plain Icing 258 

Thin Icing 259 

White Caramel Filling 259 

JAM 

Another Way for Strawberry — 14 

Huckleberries 17 

Peach 27 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 393 



Page No. 
JAM— Contd. 

Raspberry 15 

Strawberry 14 

JELLY 10 

Apple 22 

Apricot 26 

Cherry 21 

Crab Apple 25 

Grape 44 

Huckleberries 18 

Maypop 36 

Orange 46 

Peach 28 

Pear 34 

Plum 20 

Quince 35 

Raspberry 15 

Red Currant 17 

Scuppernong, No. 1 42 

Scuppernong, No. 2 42 

Strawberry 14 

To Keep Jelly 11 

Tomato 51 

LAYER CAKE 251 

Black Chocolate Cake 258 

Caramel Cake, No. 1 254 

Caramel Cake, No. 2 254 

Cocoanut Cake 252 

Chocolate Cake 252 

Chocolate Cocoanut Cake 255 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake 256 

Cream Cakes 257 

Croton Sponge Cake 255 

Jam Cakes 257 

Jelly Cake or Roll 254 

Lemon Cheese Cake 253 

Kentucky White Cake 256 

Metropolitan Cake 256 

Orange Cake 255 

Ribbon Cake 251 

Sponge Cake 257 

White Almond Cake 253 

White Cake 255 

White Cake, Made with Butter 

and Buttermilk 253 

LETTUCE 222 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 190 

Salad 192 

Salad 192 

LOBSTER, SEE SHELL FISH 
MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI__227 

Baked Macaroni 227 

Baked Spaghetti au Gratin 229 

Croquettes of Macaroni 228 

Italian Spaghetti 227 

Macaroni with Milk 228 

Spaghetti with Tomatoes 232 

To Prepare Macaroni 228 

MACAROONS 261 

MAYPOPS 36 

Jelly 36 

MEATS 133-209 

MENUS 371-382 

MINCE-MEAT 145 

A Winter's Supply 146 

Without Brandy 145 

MISCELLANEOUS 366-370 



Pagre No. 
MUFFINS 90 

Bran 90 

Corn Meal No. 1 92 

Corn Meal, No. 2 93 

Delicious 91 

Flour, No. 1 90 

Flour, No. 2 90 

Gems 93 

Graham, No. 1 91 

Graham, No. 2 91 

Graham, with Yeast 92 

Nut and Fruit 91 

Nut Graham 92 

Rice 92 

MUSHROOMS 222 

Broiled on Toast 222 

Creamed 222 

With Chicken 222 

MUSTARD, Salad 192 

MUTTON AND KID 147 

Baked Kid 147 

Chops with Tomato Sauce 148 

Kid Chops 147 

Mint Sauce for Lamb 147 

Mutton Chops Grilled 147 

Roast Mutton 147 

Stewed Lamb, with Peas 148 

NUT CAKE 250 

OATMEAL 98 

Boiled Oatmeal 100 

Oatmeal, Fried 99 

Oatmeal Gruel 100 

Oatmeal Mufflns, No. 1 99 

Oatmeal Muffins, No. 2 99 

Oatmeal Pudding 99 

Rolled Oats 99 

OKRA 218 

Boiled 218 

Okra and Onions 218 

Okra 218 

With Tomatoes 218 

OMELETS 207 

Baked 208 

Cheese, No. 1 209 

Cheese, No. 2 209 

Cheese Souffle 209 

Chicken or Ham 208 

[French 208 

Plain 207 

Plain 207 

Tomato 208 

Variations of plain 208 

Vegetable Omelets 209 

ONE EGG CHOCOLATE CAKE-_250 

ONIONS 214 

Au Gratin 214 

Baked 214 

Boiled in Four Waters 215 

French fried 214 

With Okra 218 

ORANGES 45 

Flower Syrup 47 

Jelly 46 

Marmalade, No. 1 46 

Marmalade, No. 2 46 

Marmalade, No. 3 46 

Preserves 45 

Wine 47 



394 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



Page No. 
OYSTERS, SEE SHELL FISH 

PARSNIPS AND CARROTS 236 

Carrot Soup 106 

Carrots a la Bruxelles 236 

PEACHES 26 

Brandied, No. 1 31 

Brandied, No. 2 31 

Canned 32 

Canned in Tin 33 

Conserves 28 

Jam 27 

Jelly 28 

Leather 27 

Mangoes 30 

Marmalade 27 

Pickle 28 

Pickled Peaches 29 

Pickle, Sour 28 

Pickle, Sweet, Peach or Pear_- 32 

Pickle, Sweet No. 1 29 

Pickle, Sweet No. 2 29 

Pickle, Sweet No. 3 30 

Preserves 26 

Preserved, Dried 31 

Sugared 32 

Sweet Pickle 30 

Syrup -r 32 

PEARS 33 

Canned 33 

Chips 34 

Jelly 34 

Preserves 33 

Pickle, Sweet 34 

Sweet Pickle 57 

PEPPERS 235 

Another Filling 236 

Filling for Green Peppers 235 

Pickle 62 

Sandwich 173 

Stuffed 235 

Stuffed With Crabs 235 

PICKLES 53 

Apple, Sweet 22 

Artichoke, No. 1 60 

Artichoke, No. 2 60 

Artichoke, Sweet 58 

Cabbage 56 

Cabbage 59 

Cabbage Chow-Chow 59 

Cabbage, Sweet 56 

Cauliflower, No. 1 61 

Cauliflower, N*. 2 61 

Cauliflower No. 3 61 

Cherry, Sweet 21 

Chutney 24 

Crab Apple Pickle 25 

Cucumbers 53 

Cucumber, No. 1 54 

Cucumber, No. 2 54 

Cucumber, No. 3 54 

Cucumber, No. 4 55 

Cucumber, No. 5 55 

Cucumber Chow-Chow 55 

Figs, Sweet 40 

Higdon Salad 57 

Huckleberry 18 

Mixed Chow-Chow 55 

Onion 59 



Page No. 

Peach 28 

Peach 29 

Peach, Sour 28 

Peach, Sweet, No. 1 29 

Peach, Sweet, No. 2 29 

Peach, Sweet, No. 3 30 

Peach, Sweet 30 

Peach or Pear, Sweet 32 

Pear, Sweet 34 

Pear, Sweet 57 

Pepper 62 

Pepper Mangoes 57 

Plum, Green — Imitation Olives- 19 

Plum, Salt 19 

Plum, Sour 19 

Plum, Sweet 20 

Stuffed Cucumbers 54 

Tomato, French Pickles 48 

Tomato, Green, No. 1 49 

Tomato, Green, No. 2 49 

Tomato, Green, No. 3 49 

Tomato, Ripe 50 

Tomato, Ripe, Sweet 50 

Walnut 58 

Watermelon, 37 

PICNIC DISHES 325 

PIES 292 

Apple Meringue Pie 295 

Butterscotch Pie 294 

Chopped Pastry 293 

Cocoanut Pie 299 

Custard Pie 295 

Deep Apple Pie 299 

Delicious Lemon Pies 300 

Fine Puff Paste 293 

Glaze for Pie Crust 300 

Jelly Meringue 297 

Lemon Custard Pie 293 

Lemon Pie, without Milk 294 

Mince Pie 298 

N. C. Peach Custard Pie 294 

Pastry for Short Cake and 

Chicken Pie 296 

Patty Shells 296 

Plain Pie Crust 292 

Plum Pie 299 

Puff Paste 298 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 1 299 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 2 299 

Rissoles 297 

Vol-au-Vent 296 

PIES, MEAT 

Chicken 158 

Chicken, Good 159 

Chicken, Old Virginia 159 

Oyster Pie 130 

PINEAPPLES 52 

Preserved with Apple 52 

Preserves 52 

PINEAPPLE CAKE 248 

PLUMS 18 

Cordial 18 

Green Pickle — Imitation Olives- 19 

Jelly 20 

Preserved 18 

Preserved Greengages 18 

Preserved Greengages 20 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 395 



Page No. 

PLUMS— Contd. 

Salt Pickle 19 

Sauce No. 1 19 

Sauce No. 2 19 

Spiced 19 

Sour Pickle 19 

Sweet Pickle 20 

PORK 135 

Breakfast Bacon 177 

Broiled Breakfast Bacon 138 

Broiled Tenderloin Pork Steak_137 

Fricatelli 137 

Fried Breakfast Bacon with Milk 

Gravy 138 

Fried Pig Feet 137 

How to Cook Bacon 178 

Pickled Pig Feet 136 

Pork Chops 137 

Pork Roast 135 

Sausage or Forcemeat Pilau — 138 

Sausage Rolls 138 

Shoat Roast 136 

Souse 137 

Spare-Rib. Broiled 135 

Spare-Rib Roasted 136 

To Cook Sausage 136 

POTATOES, IRISH 210 

Au Gratin 212 

Creamed 212 

Cream Soup 111 

Croquettes 1"° 

Deviled 218 

Duchess Potatoes ^1" 

French Fried 211 

Irish Potatoes 210 

Roasted in Ashes 210 

Salad 193 

Saratoga Chips ^i" 

Scalloped 211 

Scallops ^11 

Snow ^11 

Souffle 212 

Soup 114 

Stew 1]1 

Stuffed and Baked in Jackets— 213 

With Ham 211 

With Middling Meat 212 

POTATOES, SWEET 213 

Baked 214 

Baked, with Marshmallows 214 

Boiled and fried 214 

Fried 213 

Sugared 213 

To Fry 213 

POUND CAKE 237 

Chocolate Loaf 238 

No. 1. 237 

No. 2 237 

Old Fashioned Lady's Cake 237 

Six Egg Cake 239 

Soft Ginger Pound Cake 237 

PRESERVES 8 

Apple 21 

Apple, with Pineapple 52 

Apricots 25 

Apricots, Dried 26 

Cantaloupe 38 

Crab Apples 24 



Page No. 

Cherry 21 

Figs 39 

Figs 41 

Greengage Plums 18 

Greengage Plums 20 

Maypop 36 

Orange 45 

Peaches 26 

Peaches, Dried 31 

Pears 33 

Pineapple 52 

Plums 18 

Quinces 34 

Raspberry 16 

Ripe Apples 23 

Scuppernong Hulls 43 

Scuppernong Pulps 43 

Strawberry 14 

Tomatoes 48 

Tomatoes, Green 48 

Tomatoes, Ripe 50 

Watermelon 37 

PUDDINGS 283 

Almond 291 

Angels' 291 

Boston 290 

Buttermilk 289 

Cherry and Tapioca 291 

Chocolate Nut 288 

Chocolate 284 

Chocolate 291 

Chocolate Nut 285 

Citron 292 

Cocoanut 289 

Cocoanut 290 

Corn Starch 291 

Cottage 286 

Date 291 

Delmonico 288 

Feather 290 

Fig 287 

Kiss 288 

Lemon 292 

Nesselrode 283 

Nut 287 

Plain Pudding With Wine 

Sauce 284 

Plum 285 

Plum 287 

Poor Man's Pudding 290 

Prune 292 

Pudding 288 

Queen of Trifles 284 

Queen of Puddings 289 

Rice 289 

Sauce for Cottage Pudding 287 

Southern Plum 285 

Sunderland _ 290 

Sweet Potato 285 

PUMPKIN, Chips 89 

PUNCHES 278 

Fruit Punch 279 

Orange Punch, Frozen 278 

QUINCES 34 

Crystallized 85 

Jelly 85 

Leather -a 86 

Marmalade 86 



B96 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



Page No. 

QUINCES— Contd. 

Preserves 34 

RASPBERRIES 15 

Brandied 16 

Jam 15 

Jelly 15 

Pickle 16 

Preserves 16 

Shrub 15 

Vinegar 16 

Wine 16 

RICE 219 

Baked 220 

Bread 220 

Choice Method for Boiling 220 

Croquettes 177 

Fritters 220 

nice with Tomatoss 219 

Soup 109 

South Carolina 219 

Steamed 220 

To Cook 219 

SALADS 189 

Apple and Cheese Salad 197 

Anchovy Salad 200 

Artichoke Salad 192 

Asparagus Salad 193 

Beef Salad 196 

Beef Salad with Potatoes 196 

Cauliflower Salad 193 

Chicken Salad, No. 1 195 

Chicken Salad, No. 2 195 

Chicken Salad, No. 3 195 

Clam, or Crab Salad 201 

Cold Slaw or Cabbage Salad __193 

Combination Salads 201 

Cooked Oyster Salad 199 

Cream Cheese Salad 197 

Cress Salad 193 

Cucumber Jelly 190 

Cucumber Salad 192 

Devonshire Salad 198 

Egg Salad 199 

Endive Salad 193 

Frozen Salad 197 

Fruit Salad 190 

Fruit Salad 197 

Grape Fruit Jelly 191 

Grape Fruit Salad 190 

Grapefruit Salad 198 

Irish Potato Salad 193 

Lettuce and Egg Salad 201 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 190 

Lettuce Salad, No. 1 192 

Lettuce Salad, No. 2 192 

Lobster Salad 200 

Mackerel Salad 202 

Mustard Salad 192 

Other Combinations 202 

Pear Helene 191 

Pear Salad 190 

Pear Salad 199 

Pimento and Pineapple Salad __190 

Pineapple Salad 198 

Pork Salad 194 

Raw Oyster Salad 199 

Romaine Salad 190 

Salmon Salad No. 1 199 



Page No. 
Salmon Salad No. 2 199 

Sardines in Pepper 200 

Sardine Salad 200 

Sauce for Fruit Salad 197 

Shrimp Salad 200 

Spinach Salad 192 

Stuffed Tomatoes 190 

Sweetbread Salad 198 

Tomato Aspic 191 

Tomato Jelly Salad 198 

Tomato Salad 194 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Salad__194 

Tongue Jelly *_ 191 

Tongue Salad 194 

SALMON 121 

Baked 122 

Creamed Lake 121 

Scalloped 121 

SALSIFY 215 

Soup, No. 1 112 

Soup, No. 2 113 

Stewed Salsify— Oyster Plant__215 

SANDWICHES AND CRO- 
QUETTES 171 

A Dainty Sandwich 172 

Brown Bread Sandwiches 174 

Caviar Sandiwiches 176 

Caviar Sandwiches 177 

Cheese Dreams 178 

Cheese Sandwiches 173 

Cheese Sandwiches 175 

Chicken Croquettes 175 

Club Sandwiches 174 

Cod Fish Balls 176 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches 177 

Cucumber Sandwiches 178 

Date Sandwich 174 

Deviled Chicken Sandwiches 178 

Deviled Ham Sandwiches 173 

Egg Sandwiches 172 

Egg and Tomato Sandwiches __174 

Fish Croquettes 177 

Ham or Fresh Pork Croquettes 176 

Ham Sandwiches 172 

Hominy Croquettes 175 

Irish Potato Croquettes 176 

Lenten Sandwich 173 

Lobster Sandwiches 171 

Neufchatel Sandwiches 173 

Olive and Liver Sandwiches 175 

Oyster Sandwiches 174 

Pepper Sandwiches 173 

Pineapple Sandwiches 172 

Plate Sandwiches 177 

Raisin Sandwiches 178 

Rice Croquettes 177 

Salmon Croquettes 176 

Salmon Sandwiches 178 

Sandwiches a la Parisienne 172 

Sweet Sandwiches 175 

Tomato Sandwich 178 

SAUCES 53 

Cabbage 58 

Horseradish 62 

Plum, No. 1 19 

Plum, No. 2 19 

Red Pepper, No. 1 60 

Red Pepper, No. 2 60 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 397 



Page No. 

SAUCES— Contd. 

Tomato Sauce 50 

Tomato Sauce 51 

SAUCES FOR MEATS, ETC. 179 

A Good Mushroom Sauce 179 

Anchovy Sauce 188 

A Northern Recipe for Sauce 
for Toast and Broiled Birds__184 

Bearnaise Sauce 181 

Bechamel Sauce 180 

Black Butter 188 

Caramel Sauce 186 

Celery Vinegar 184 

Chili Sauce 179 

Chili Sauce 186 

Congealed Mayonnaise 183 

Cooked Mayonnaise 183 

Cream Sauce 179 

Cucumber Sauce, No. 1 188 

Cucumber Sauce, No. 2 188 

Curry Powder 184 

Drawn Butter 179 

Drawn Butter for Baked Fish-_180 
Egg Sauce for Meats or Fish_180 

French Dressing 181 

French Dressing 186 

French Salad Dressing 185 

Hollandaise Dressing 187 

Horseradish Butter 188 

Horseradish Sauce 180 

Indian Dressing 186 

Italian Dressing 187 

Italian Salad Dressing 185 

Mayonnaise Dressing, No. 1 181 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 — 182 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 3 182 

Mayonnaise, No. 4 182 

Mayonnaise No. 5 182 

Mayonnaise for Fruit Salad 183 

Mint Sauce 189 

Remoulade Dressing 180 

Roquefort Cheese Dressing 184 

Russian Dressing 187 

Salad Dressing 181 

Sauce a la Tortue 189 

Sauce for Fish 185 

Sauce for Salads, Tomatoes and 

Cold Meats 184 

Sauce Robert 183 

Sauce Tartare 183 

Sauce Tartare 187 

Tartar Sauce 185 

Tomato Sauce 185 

Tomato Sauce 186 

Vinagrette Dressing 186 

SAUCES, SWEET 318 

SCUPPERNONGS 41 

Catsup 42 

Jelly, No. 1 42 

Jelly, No. 2 42 

Preserved Hulls 43 

Preserved Pulps 43 

Wine, No. 1 41 

Wine, No. 2 41 

Wine, No. 3 42 

Wine, No. 4 42 



Page No. 
SHAD 120 

Baked with Irish Potato Dress- 
ing 120 

Fried 121 

Planked 120 

SHELL FISH 127 

Blue Points on Half Shell with 

Cocktail in Peppers — 123 

Clam Chowder 130 

Clam Cocktail 129 

Lobster, Creamed 131 

Lobster Farci 131 

Oysters, Creamed 161 

Oysters, Deviled 128 

Oysters en Bloc 127 

Oyster, Fricasse 131 

Oysters, Fried 129 

Oysters in Crackers 129 

Oyster Patties 128 

Oyster, Pilau 130 

Oyster, Pie 130 

Oysters, Raw 128 

Oysters, Roasted 130 

Oyster, White Fricasse 132 

Shrimp Cocktail 129 

SHORT CAKE 260 

Peach 261 

Strawberry 260 

Strawberry 260 

SHRIMP, SEE SHELL FISH 

SHRUB 

Blackberry 12 

Raspberry 15^ 

SOUPS 102 

Seasonings 103 

SOUPS, CREAM, See Cream Soups 

SOUP STOCK 103 

Brown 103 

Glaze 106 

Thickening 105 

Vegetable 104 

White 104 

SOUP, CLEAR 106 

Bouillon, Cold 107 

Bouillon, No. 1 107 

Bouillon, No. 2 108 

Carrot, a la Cressy 106 

Clam Broth 108 

Chicken Soup 107 

Consomme 107 

Essence of Beef 108 

To Clear Soup 106 

Tomato 106 

SOUP, SWEET 118 

Almond HJ 

Apple 11° 

Champagne H^ 

Cherry H^ 

Strawberry 119 

White Wine 118 

SPAGHETTI 221 

SPICE CAKE 248". 

Marble Spice Cake 248- 

Spice Cake 249' 

SPINACH 215 

Salad 192 

SPONGE CAKE 243 

Croton Sponge 243 



398 THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 



Page No, 

SPONGE CAKE— Contd. 

Delightful Sponge 244 

No. 1 243 

No. 2 243 

White Sponge 244 

SQUAB, Broiled 326 

SQUASH 217 

Baked 217 

Fried 218 

Stewed 217 

STRAWBERRIES 14 

Another Way for Jam 14 

Jam 14 

Jelly 14 

Preserves 14 

SWEETBREADS 143 

Baked Sweetbreads 143 

Braised Sweetbreads 144 

Sweetbread Pates 143 

Sweetbreads 143 

Sweetbreads with Orange 144 

To Fry Sweetbreads 143 

SWEET SAUCE FOR PUD- 
DINGS, ETC. 318 

A Hard Sauce for Plum Pud- 
ding 321 

Brandy Sauce 319 

Caramel 322 

Chocolate Sauce 320 

Cranberry Sauce, No. 1 318 

Cranberry Sauce, No. 2 319 

Cream Sauce for Sponge Cake_321 

Cream Sauce 320 

Custard Sauce 321 

Egg Sauce 322 

Foam Sauce 322 

Fruit Salad Dressing 319 

Lemon Sauce, No. 1 319 

Lemon Sauce, No. 2 319 

Sauce for Plum Pudding 320 

Strawberry Sauce 322 

Sunshine Sauce 321 

Vanilla Cream Sauce 320 

Whipped Cream Sauce 321 

TART9 304 

Almond 304 

Apple 304 

Cocoanut 304 

Cream 304 

Lemon 304 

Orange 304 

TEA CAKES, MACAROONS, 

COOKIES, ETC. 261 

Almond Macaroons, No. 1 262 

Almond Macaroons, No. 2 263 

Banana Cake 267 

Bon Bon Cake 269 

Cherry Coffee Cake 268 

Chocolate Blocks 265 

Chocolate Cakes with Almonds 261 

Crullers, No. 1 264 

Crullers, No. 2 264 

Crullers 270 

Currant Cake 267 

Currant Layer Cake 267 

Delicious Almond Cake 263 

Delicious Cookies 263 

Doughnuts 264 



Page No. 

Ginger Bread 264 

Ginger Snaps 262 

Ginger Wafers 270 

Good Tea Cakes 261 

Hot Marshmallow Sauce 266 

Iced Coffee Cake 266 

Icing for Coffee Cake 266 

Lemon Snaps 264 

Marshmallow Almond Cake 267 

Marshmallow Cake 268 

Marshmallow Roll 269 

Nut Cake 265 

Oatmeal Cookies 270 

Old Fashioned Ginger Bread__262 

Peach Cake 265 

Peanut Cookies 270 

Savory Cakes of Olden Times__263 

Small Nut Cakes 265 

Soft Ginger Snaps 262 

Steamed Snowballs 266 

Sweet Wafers 268 

Tea Cakes 261 

Tea Cakes 268 

White Patty Pan Cakes 265 

TOAST 85 

Bars 85 

Cheese 86 

Cheese and Egg 86 

Cheese, another 86 

Cheese Crackers 87 

Cheese Toast, with Milk 87 

Cream Toast for Two 86 

Croutons, No. 1 85 

Croutons, No, 2 86 

Croutons, No. 3 86 

Dry 85 

Egg 87 

French 87 

Toasted Crackers 87 

Toast for Soup 88 

Tomato, No. 1 87 

Tomato, No. 2 87 

Tongue 88 

TO CURE PORK AND BEEF —148 

Pickled or Corned Beef 150 

Sausage 150 

Seasoning for Sausage Meat 151 

Spiced Beef 151 

Sugar Cured Ham, No. 1 149 

Sugar Cured Ham. No. 2 149 

Virginia-Cured Ham 150 

TOMATOES 48 

Another Sauce 50 

Aspic 191 

Baked, No. 1 231 

Baked. No. 2 231 

Baked Tomatoes 234 

Bisque 111 

Broiled Tomatoes 233 

Catsup, No. 1 51 

Catsup, No. 2 51 

Catsup, No. 3 52 

Egg and Tomato Sandwiches — 174 

Fillet of Beef with 142 

Fried with Chicken 152 

French Pickles 48 

Green Pickle, No. 1 49 

Green Pickle, No, 2 49 



THE NEW ANNIE DENNIS COOK BOOK 399 



Pace No. 

TOMATOES— Contd. 

Gre«n Pickle, No. 3 49 

Gre«n Preserves 48 

Green Tomato Sauce 51 

Grilled 232 

Jelly 61 

Jelly Salad 198 

Omelet 208 

Ripe Pickle 50 

Ripe Preserves 50 

Ripe Sweet Pickle 50 

Salad ___ ___194 

Sandwich 178 

Sauce 185 

Sauce 186 

Scalloped 232 

Soup 106 

Stewed, No. 1 232 

Stewed. No. 2 233 

Stuffed 190 

Stuffed __-232 

Stuffed 234 

Stuffed with Salad 194 

Tomato and Lettuce Salad 190 

Tomatoes and Spaghetti 282 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Celery, 
Cucumber and Green Pepper, 
Served with French Dressing_233 
Tomatoes Stuffed With Eggs —233 

To Serve 234 

With Okra 218 

With •Rice 219 

TURNIPS 221 

Salad 221 

To Cook 221 

VEAL 138 

Veal Croquettes 139 



Fare No. 
Veal Loaf 188 

VEGETABLES 210 

WAFERS 82 

Corn Meal 83 

Fruit 88 

Plain 82 

Sweet 88 

Victoria 82 

WAFFLES 83 

Flour 88 

Hominy 84 

Light as Air 85 

Martha Washington 84 

No. 1 88 

No. 2 84 

Old Fashioned 84 

Rice 88 

WATERMELON 37 

Pickle 87 

Preserves 87 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ___384 

WHITE CAKE 240 

Premium 240 

Snow Cake 240 

White Cake, No. 1 241 

White Cake, No. 2 241 

White Cake, No. 3 241 

White Mountain Cake 241 

YEAST 68 

Buttermilk Yeast and Bread 65 

Hop and Potato, No. 1 63 

Hop and Potato, No. 2 63 

Hop, Liquid or Dry 64 

Liquid 64 

Milk 65 

Mrs. AdauLs' 65 



