^ 



cM 



o<%.M\-J 




^E 




PURCHASED FROM THE INCOME OF THE 

JOSIAH H. BENTON FUND 



N9I5; 10,28,38 : 20M 



FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



FRUITS 

AND THEIR COOKERY 



BY 

HARRIET S. NELSON 




NEW YORK 

E. P. BUTTON &- COMPANY 

681 FIFTH AVENUE 



Copyright, 192 i, 
BY E. P. BUTTON & COMPANY 



All Rights Reserved 






Printed bi the XTnitea States of Amerioa 



FOREWORD 

Physicians of the present day place strong 
emphasis upon the value of fruits judiciously used 
as a part of the daily diet. This volume has been 
prepared for the purpose of suggesting to house- 
keepers various ways of supplying this recognized 

need. 

Harriet S. Nelson. 



CONTENTS 

I— APPLES PAGES 

Dutch Apple Pie — Apple Salad — Boiled Dressing — Apple Pie 
— Apple Fritters — Fritter Batter — Apple Cake — Apple 
and Suet Pudding — Apple Sauce Shortcake — Apple Foam 
— ^Apple Omelet — Apple and Sweet Potato Scallop — Ap- 
ple Sandwich Filling — Dixie Apple Biscuit — Paula's 
Baked Apples — Apple Corn Meal Muffins — Apple Pan- 
cakes — Apple and Date Salad — Baked Apples and Mince 
Meat — Apple Rice Pudding — Apple Sauce Cake — Apple 
Layer Cake — Apple Toast — Apple Chutney — Apple Cereal 
Pie — Waldorf Salad — Mayonnaise Dressing — Apple Wa- 
ter — Preserved Apples — Canned Apples and Quinces — 
Canned Apples and Pineapple — Canned Apples — Apple 
Ginger — Apple Marmalade — Apple Jelly — Apple Tapioca 
— Apple Meringue — Fried Apples and Onions — Fried 
Apples with Sausage — Stewed Apples and Raisins — Apple 
Indian Pudding — Apple Batter Pudding — Hard Sauce — 
Apple Charlotte — Brown Betty — Birds' Nests — Scalloped 
Apple — Apple Souffle — Steamed Apples with Ginger — 
Baked Apple Dumpling No. i — Lemon Sauce — Baked 
Apples— Baked Apple DumpHngs No. 2 — New England 
Baked Apples — Apple Sponge — Vanilla Sauce . » . 1-20 

II— CRAB-APPLES 
Crab-apple Pie— Spiced Crab-apple Jelly— Crab-apple Jelly . 21-22 

III— PEARS 

Pear Chips — Spiced Pears — Baked Pears — Pear Conserve — 
Pear Butter — Compote of Pears — Canned Pear and 
Orange Salad — Pear Trifle— Pears with Chocolate Sauce 
— Canned Pears — Canned Pears Frozen — Candied Pears 
— Pear and Lemon Marmalade — ^Canned Pear Dessert 23-27 

IV— PEACHES 

Peach Cocktail — Peach Popovers — Peach Parfait — A New 
Peach Pie — Corn Meal Peach Pudding — Peach Melba — 
Peach Mold — Peach Pudding No. i — Peach Croustades 

vii 



vui CONTENTS 

PAGES 

—Peach Sauce— Peach Cobbler— Peach and Marshmal- 
low Cream — Peach Roly Poly — Peach and Tomato Salad 
—Baked Peaches— Peach and Raspberry Trifle— Peach 
Conserve— Spiced Peaches— Peach Tapioca— Peach Foam 
— Stewed Peaches and Raisins — Peach Custard — Peach 
Marmalade— Peach Turnovers— Peach Meringue No. i 
—Frozen Peach Roll— Peach Ice Cream— Peach Pudding 
No. 2 — Peach Mousse — Peaches and Cream — Peach 
Omelet— Hot Peach Pudding v^ith Cold Sauce — Peaches 
and Rice— Peach Pudding No. 3— Peach Fritters— Peach 
Dumpling— Peach Bavarian Cream— Peach Surprise- 
Peach Blanc Mange— Peach Loaf— Peach Pie— Deep 
Peach Pie— Peach and Raisin Pudding— Individual Peach 
Pudding— Peach Rice Pudding— Peach Sponge— Golden 
Peach Pudding— Peach Bread Pudding— Peach Steamed 
Pudding 28-45 

V— PLUMS 

Plums in Rice Border — Plum Conserve — Plum Charlotte- 
Plums in Batter — Preserved Damsons — Spiced Plums — 
Plum Jelly— Plum Jam— Plum Pie— Sweet Picked Plums 46-49 

VI— QUINCES 

Quince Custards— Spanish Quince Pie— Quince Honey— Baked 
Quinces— Quince and Pear Preserve — Quince Preserve- 
Quince Marmalade— Preserved Quinces— Quince and 
Sweet Apple Preserves— Honey Quince Jelly .... 50-54 

VII— APRICOTS 

Frozen Apricots— Apricot Souffle— Apricot Sauce— Apricot 
Roll— Dried Apricot Sherbet— Apricot Parfait— Apricot 
Ice — Apricot Ice for an InvaHd — Apricot Sponge — Rice 
with Apricots— Evaporated Apricot Preserve— Apricot 
Marmalade 55-59 

VIII— ORANGES & GRAPEFRUIT 

Orange and Onion Salad— French Dressing— Orange Pudding 
Sauce No. i— Orange Apricot Marmalade— Orange Omelet 
—Orange Snow Pudding— Orange Water Ice— How to 
Serve an Orange to an Invalid— Candied Orange Peel- 
Grape Fruit Marmalade (From Skins)— Orange Marma- 
lade—Orange Frappe— Orange Egg Cordial— Orange 
Pudding No. i— Orange Roly Poly— Orange Puddmg 
No. 2— Orange Souffle— Orange Shortcake No. i— Orange 
Pudding Sauce No. 3— Orange and Cocoanut— Orange 



CONTENTS ix 

PAGES 

Puffs — Orange Frosting — Orange Cream (Frozen) — 
Orange Custard — Boiled Custard — Orange Delight — 
Orange Charlotte — Orange Cake Filling — Baked Orange 
Souffle Pudding — Orange and Custard — Orange Fluff — 
Orangeade — Orange Bread Pudding — Delicious Orange 
Pudding — Steamed Orange Pudding — Orange Custard 
Pie — Orange Squares — Orange Nut Salad — Grapefruit 
Pie — Orange Pudding No. 2 — Grapefruit and Rice — 
Orange Marmalade Pudding — Orange and Honey Mar- 
malade — Frozen Orange Pudding — Orange Bavarian 
Cream — Orange Shortcake No. 2 — Orange Sauce for Cro- 
quettes — Orange and Date Salad — Orange Sponge — Orange 
Jelly with Banana Cream — Grapefruit Gelatine — Orange 
and Grapefruit Marmalade — Oranges with Cranberry 
Sauce 60-8© 

IX— LEMONS 

Lemon Pie No. i — Lemon Pie No. 2 — Lemon Pie No. 3 — Lemon 
Cheese Pie — Lemon Pudding — Lemon Cheesecakes — 
Lemon Butter — Spiced Lemon Sauce — Lemon Jelly — 
Lemon Pears — Lemon Cream — Lemon Sago — Lemon Ice 
—Buttermilk Lemon Pie — Lemon Raisin Pie — Lemon 
Cream Sauce — Lemon Cocoanut Cream Filling — Steamed 
Lemon Pudding — Lemonade — Irish Moss Lemonade . 81-87 

X— PINEAPPLE 

Pineapple Cream — Pineapple Whip — Pineapple Salad — Pine- 
apple Tapioca — Pineapple Shortcake — Pineapple Fluff — 
Pineaple and Rhubarb Marmalade — Pineapple Custard — 
Pineapple Custard Pie — Pineapple Mousse — Preserved 
Pineapple — Pineapple and Orange Marmalade — Pineapple, 
Strawberry and Cherry Conserve — Frozen Pineapple Cus- 
tard — Pineapple Tarts — Pineapple Punch — Pineapple Souf- 
fle — Pineapple Parfait — Baked Pineapple — Pineapple Char- 
lotte — Fruit Salad — Pineapple Snow — Pineapple Sponge 
— Frozen Pineapple Pudding — Pineapple Ice — Pineapple 
Cocktail — Pineapple Fritters No. i — Pineapple Fritters 
No. 2 — Pineapple Sherbet — Pineapple Mold — Canning 
Pineapples— Pineapple Toast— Pineapple Jelly with Soft 
Custard — Pineapple Delight — Pineapple Sorbet — Pine- 
apple and Cocoanut Dessert — Hawaiian Pineapple Cream 
Pie— Pineapple Pie— Fruit Jelly 88-103 

XI— BANANAS 

Banana Cream — Baked Bananas — Banana Ice — Banana Fritters 
— Fried Bananas — Banana Butter — Banana Pie — Banana 
Fluff— Banana Sponge — Junket and Bananas — Banana and 



X CONTENTS 

PAGES 

Date Pudding— Banana Compote— Banana Ice Cream- 
Banana Tapioca — Rognons Aux Bananas — Banana Cro- 
quettes — Banana Pudding No. i — Banana Pudding No. 2 
— Banana Pudding No. 3 — Banana Cake — Banana Pickle 
— Banana Omelet — Banana Omelet (Sweet) — Banana 
with Sausage — Banana and Rhubarb Betty — Banana Sand- 
wiches — Banana Splits — Banana Souffle — Banana and 
Pineapple Salad — Baked Bananas and Apples . . . 104-116 

XII— WATERMELONS 

Watermelon Cocktails — Cantaloupe Cocktails — Watermelon 
Conserve — Sweet Pickle Watermelon Rind — Frozen Wa- 
termelon — Watermelon Preserve 117-I18 

XIII— CITRON MELON 

Citron Melon Preserve— Citron Preserve No. i— Citron Pre- 
serve No. 2 — Barberry Sauce 1 19-120 

XIV— RHUBARB 

Rhubarb Pie — Rhubarb Custard Pie — Rhubarb Stewed — Rhu- 
barb and Orange Marmalade — Rhubarb Whip — Rhubarb 
and Pineapple Marmalade — Rhubarb Baked with Figs — 
Rhubarb Bread Pudding — Rhubarb Marmalade — Rhubarb 
and Figs — Rhubarb and Gooseberries — Rhubarb Ice- 
Cream — Rhubarb Meringue Pie 121-126 

XV— BLUEBERRIES 

Quick Blueberry Pudding — Egg Sauce — Cream Blueberry Gin- 
gerbread — Stewed Blueberries and Dumplings — Blueberry 
Jam — Blueberry Bread Pudding — Blueberry Muffins No. 
I — Blueberry Muffins No. 2 — Spiced Blueberries — Blue- 
berry Shortcake — Blueberry Pie with Meringue — Blue- 
berry Custard Pie — Blueberry Pudding — Blueberry Puffs 
— Canned Blueberries — Blueberry Flapjacks . . . 127-132 

XVI— RASPBERRIES 

Raspberry Souffle — Raspberry Tapioca — Raspberry Ice — Rasp- 
berry Bombe Glace — Raspberry Sirup — Raspberry Cream 
Pie — Raspberry Bar-le-Duc — Louisville Fruit Pudding — 
Nests of Rice with Raspberry Jam — Raspberry Turnovers 
— Raspberry Parfait — Raspberry and Currant Dumplings 
— Raspberry Sponge — Raspberry Jelly Fluff — Raspberry 
Nectar— Raspberry Sherbet No. i— Raspberry Pudding 
No. I— Raspberry Foam— Raspberry Pudding No. 2 — 
Raspberry Sherbet No. 2 — Raspberry and Apple Jelly— 



CONTENTS xi 

PAGES 

Raspberry Preserves — Canned Raspberries— Raspberry- 
Vinegar— Raspberry Shrub 133-141 

XVII— BLACKBERRIES 

Blackberry Jam — Blackberry and Apple Jam — Blackberry Corn- 
starch — Blackberry Charlotte — Blackberry Custard — 
Blackberry Gelatine — Blackberry Jelly — Blackberry Ba- 
varian Cream — Blackberry Pie — Blackberry Pudding — 
Baked Blackberry Pudding — Blackberry Bread Pudding — 
Blackberry Mousse — Blackberry Sponge — Blackberry Vin- 
egar 142-147 

XVIII— STRAWBERRIES 

Preserved Strawberries — Strawberry Souffle — Strawberry Ice 
— Frozen Strawberry Cream — Strawberry Fluff No. i — 
Strawberry Junket — Strawberry Fritters — Strawberry Roll 
— Strawberry Trifle — Frozen Strawberry Nectar — Straw- 
berry Salad No. i — Strawberries and Pineapples — Straw- 
berry Tapioca — Strawberry Sauce — Strawberry Nests — 
Jelly Russe — Strawberryade — Strawberry Pudding — 
Strawberry Sirup — Strawberry Sorbet — Baked Custard 
v/ith Strawberry Sauce — Strawberry Bavarian Cream — 
Strawberry Cottage Pudding — Strawberries and Bonny 
Clabber — Strawberry Rice — Strawberry Filling for Layer 
Cake — Strawberry Sponge — Strawberry Omelet — Straw- 
berry Cocktails — Iced Strawberry Fool — Strawberries a 
la Francaise — Strawberries Preserved Without Cooking 
— Strawberry Pie — Strawberry Meringue — Strawberry 
Salad No. 2 — Strawberry Sherbet— Strawberry Fluff No. 
2 — Strawberry and Macaroon Ice — Strawberry Mousse — 
Strawberry and Rhubarb Conserve — Strawberry Jam — 
Strawberry Shortcake — Strawberry Whip .... 148-164 

XIX— GOOSEBERRIES 

Gooseberry Cream — Preserved Gooseberries — Spiced Goose- 
berries — Gooseberry and Currant Jam — Bar-Le-Duc 
Gooseberries and Currant — Gooseberry-Pineapple — Goose- 
berry Fool — Gooseberry Pudding (boiled)— Gooseberry 
Ice — Gooseberry Conserve — Gooseberry Pudding — Goose- 
berry Souffle — Gooseberry Bread Pudding — Gooseberry 
Sponge — Gooseberry Meringue — Stewed Gooseberries 165-170 

XX— ELDERBERRIES 

Elderberry with Apple for Jelly— Elder Blossom Wine— Elder- 
berry Wine 171-172 



xii CONTENTS 

XXI-CRANBERRIES ,.„„ 

Cranberry Marmalade. To Serve with Meats — Frozen Cran- 
berries — Spiced Cranberries — Cranberry Ade — Cranberry 
Pudding — Cranberry Jelly — Cranberry Pie — Steamed 
Cranberry Pudding — Cranberry Puffs 173-176 

XXII— CURRANTS 

Currant Pie No. i — Bar-Le-Duc Currant Jelly — Currant Pie 
No. 2 — Spiced Currants — Currant Ice — Black Currant 
Pudding — Currant Croquettes — Currant Relish — A Cur- 
rant Punch — Currant Meringue Pie — Red Currant Wine 1 77-181 

XXIII— GRAPES 

Spiced Grapes— Grape Cup— Malaga Grape Salad — Grape Fluff 
— Grape Meringue Tart — Grape Juice — Grape Catsup — 
Grape Juice Jelly — Green Grape Jelly — Grape Wine — 
Spiced Grape Jelly — Grape Cocktails — Grape Marmalade 
— Grape Sponge Pudding — Grape Crabapple Preserve — 
Grape Sherbet — Grape Juice Frappe — Grape Jelly — Ma- 
laga Grape Tarts 182-188 

XXIV— CHERRIES 

Cherry Water Ice — Cherry Bavarian Cream — Cherry Shortcake 
— Frozen Cherry Pudding — Cherry Pie — Cherry Wine — 
Crushed Cherry Cup — Cherry Cordial — Cherry Puffs — • 
Cherry Gelatine — Cherry Pudding No. i — Cherry Pudding 
No. 2 — Pickled Cherries — Spiced Cherries — Cherry and 
Currant Jam — Frosted Cherries — Cherry Duff — Cherry 
Sauce — Preserved Cherries — ^Canned Cherries — Cherry 
Croquettes — Maraschino Sauce — Cherry Salad — Cottage 
Cheese and Cherry Dessert i8^i97 



FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



I. APPLES 

DUTCH APPLE PIE 

3 pints sweet milk pinch of salt 

2 eggs 2 quarts sweet apples 

2 tablespoonf uls flour sugar to taste and nutmeg 

Pare, core and slice the apples and cook until 
tender ; then mash until fine. Add the milk and the 
eggs well beaten. Mix the flour until smooth with 
a little of the milk. Mix all together and sweeten 
to taste. Flavor with nutmeg as desired. Line a 
pie plate with rich pie crust and fill with the 
mixture, baking as for custard pie. 

APPLE SALAD 

Scoop out the center of eight red apples with a 
vegetable scoop. Mix with equal parts of finely 
chopped celery and boiled dressing. Fill apple shells 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

BOILED DRESSING 

3^i teaspoonful mustard % cupful milk 

y2 teaspoonful salt yolk of i ^g% 

2 teaspoonfuls flour 2 teaspoonfuls oil 

I teaspoonful sugar ^ cupful hot vinegar 



2 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Mix dry ingredients in a saucepan, add the 
yolk of the egg, oil and milk. Stir the mixture over 
hot water until it begins to thicken, then stir in the 
vinegar, a few drops at a time. 

APPLE PIE 

Pastry: 

ly^ cupfuls pastry j4 teaspoonful baking pow- 

flour der 

54 teaspoonful salt yi cupful shortening 

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder. 
With the tips of the fingers work in the shortening, 
then use a little ice water to mix, use a silver knife 
to do this and turn it out on a well floured board. 
Pat it out with a rolling pin and roll into a rect- 
angular sheet. Have ready about two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter beaten to a cream, spread part of 
this over half the paste and fold the other half over 
the butter. Use at once or wrap in waxed paper 
and set in the icebox until next day. 

Apples : Pare, core and slice the apples. Fill the 
dish, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and bits of but- 
ter. Wet the edge of lower crust, cover with upper 
crust and press edges together. Bake forty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Pare and core apples, cut in round slices. For 
each eight apples, mix one-fourth cupful of sugar 
and four tablespoon fuls lemon juice. Let apples 



APPLES 3 

stand in this mixture for one hour. Dip in fritter 
batter, fry in hot fat, drain on brown paper, sprinkle 
with sugar. 

FRITTER BATTER 

1 cupful flour grated rind of a lemon 

2 tablespoon fuls sugar 2 eggs 

Yt. teaspoonful salt J^ cupful milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add beaten yolks, 
lemon rind and milk. Beat, cut and fold in the 
beaten whites of eggs. 

APPLE CAKE 

2 cupfuls flour 2 cupfuls sliced 

1 teaspoonful salt apples 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- I cupful milk 

der 2 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add beaten 
yolks, butter and milk. Beat well, cut and fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites. Spread mixture one-half 
inch thick on buttered pans. Lay sliced apples on 
top, sprinkle with sugar; bake in hot oven thirty 
minutes. 

APPLE AND SUET PUDDING 

2 cupfuls chopped apples i cupful molasses 
2 cupfuls chopped raisins Y^ teaspoonful salt 
I cupful sour milk i cupful suet 

I teaspoonful soda flour to make stiff batter 



4 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Add soda to the milk, add the ingredients a little 
at a time, mix well. Boil in a pudding bag about 
two hours. 

APPLE SAUCE SHORTCAKE 

2 cupfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
Yz teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls lard 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- i cupful milk 

der 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add butter and 
lard and chop or mix with finger tips until thor- 
oughly blended. Add milk. When thoroughly 
mixed, divide in halves, put each half into a round, 
buttered cake tin. Wet knife and spread smooth. 
Bake ten to twenty minutes in hot oven. Split each 
cake and fill with hot apple sauce. Serve with 
cream. 

APPLE FOAM 

% cupful apple sauce 2 tablespoonfuls finely 

2 ^gg whites chopped preserved 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered ginger 

sugar 

Beat the whites of ^gg until very stiff, add the 
sugar a little at a time, then add the apple gradu- 
ally, beating well. Fold in the ginger, turn into 
glasses, chill on ice and serve. It will fall if it 
stands too long. 



APPLES 



APPLE OMELET 



6 apples A ^ggs 

I tablespoonful butter / J^ teaspoonful of rose ex- 
^6 tablespoonfuls sugar tract 



39- 



Pare, core and cut the apples in small pieces. 
Stew until soft. Beat while hot until very smooth. 
Add the butter, sugar and flavoring. When cold 
add the well beaten yolks of the eggs, then the 
stiffly beaten whites. Put into a well greased bak- 
ing dish and bake in a moderate oven until a Hght 
brown. 

APPLE AND SWEET POTATO SCALLOP 

Peel and cut boiled sweet potatoes into quarter 
inch slices. Butter a baking dish, put in a layer 
of the potatoes sprinkled with sugar and a grating 
of nutmeg, then dot with bits of butter. Cover with 
a layer of apple sauce. Repeat until the dish is full, 
having the top layer potato. Cover with a generous 
amount of sugar, sprinkled with buttered crumbs 
and bake an hour in a moderate oven. 

APPLE SANDWICH FILLING 

Peel and grate two tart apples and mix with two 
cupfuls of fresh cottage cheese and four table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream. Season with salt and 
paprika. Mix well and spread between thin slices 
of buttered brown bread. 



6 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

DIXIE APPLE BISCUIT 

I pint light bread sponge Graham flour 

J4 cupful molasses i>l cupfuls chopped apples 

1 tablespoonful shortening brown sugar 

Add molasses and shortening to bread sponge 
and sufficient Graham flour to make a soft dough. 
Beat vigorously, add apples and mix well. Put 
into muffin pans, sprinkle with brown sugar and 
let stand until light. Bake in hot oven. 

PAULAS BAKED APPLES 

Remove the cores from good sized apples, fill 
with jam and bits of butter. Place slices of stale 
bread in a baking dish and put an apple on each 
slice. Pour scalded milk, slightly sweetened, over 
the bread and bake in the oven until apples are 
soft. 

APPLE CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

2 tablespoon fuls of butter i cupful each of corn meal 
Yz, cupful sugar and wheat flour 

I ^g% 3 heaping teaspoonfuls 

J4 cupful sweet milk baking powder 

/4 teaspoonful salt 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add the 
beaten ^gg and milk, then the flour which has been 
mixed with the baking powder and salt. Beat the 
batter hard and stir in the finely chopped apples. 
Bake in greased pans for twenty-five minutes. 



APPLES 



APPLE PANCAKES 

I cupful Graham flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

Yz cupful white flour powder 

I tablespoonful sugar 2 eggs 

I teaspoonful salt i^ cupfuls milk 

I cupful finely chopped apples 

Scald the milk and pour on the Graham flour. 
When cold, add remaining ingredients, apples last 
of all. Beat well and bake on hot griddle. 

APPLE AND DATE SALAD 

1 cupful chopped dates 3 cupfuls chopped tart 
Yz cupful chopped nut meats apples 

pinch of salt 

Mix all together, pour over them a dressing of 
lemon juice and sugar. 

BAKED APPLES AND MINCE MEAT 

Pare and core large tart apples, fill the centers 
with mince meat, place them in a baking pan and 
sprinkle with sugar. Pour in a little boiling water 
and bake half an hour, basting often. Serve hot 
with hard sauce. 

APPLE RICE PUDDING 

4 apples 4 tablespoonfuls marma- 

2 tablespoonfuls butter lade 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar Y\ cupful rice 

2^4 cupfuls water % teaspoonful salt 



8 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Cut the apples and put them in a pan with the 
butter, sugar and enough water to cover them. 
Cook them until they are soft and all the water has 
been taken up. Wash and cook the rice in salted 
boiling water until tender, then drain. Caramelize 
a mold and line the bottom and sides of it with the 
rice. Put the cooked apples in the center of the 
mold and spread the marmalade over them. Cover 
the top with rice and bake it in an oven for fif- 
teen minutes. When the rice is cold, turn out on- 
to a platter and serve with any preferred liquid 
sauce. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

I cupful of unsweetened i teaspoonful soda 
apple sauce i^ cupfuls flour 

Yz cupful butter or other Yz teaspoonful each of nut- 
fat rneg, cloves, cinnamon 
lYz cupfuls sugar and salt 
Yi cupful seeded raisins 

Cream butter and sugar together. Add the soda 
to the apple sauce and beat well. Mix butter, sugar 
and apple sauce with flour and spices. Add raisins 
last of all. Beat well and bake in a loaf for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

APPLE LAYER CAKE 

2 tablespoonfuls but- I tgg 

ter 2 cupfuls flour 

I cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
I cupful milk der 



APPLES 9 

Mix in order given and bake in layers. Fill with 
the following: 

Filling: Cook 2 large apples until soft, then add 
I cupful of sugar, the well beaten yolk of an egg 
and the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat smooth 
and spread between layers. 

APPLE TOAST 

Stew peeled and quartered apples in one table- 
spoonful of butter, two of water and one of sugar. 
Cook in this until tender. Fry slices of bread until 
golden brown. Pile the apples on these and serve 
hot with a garnish of bacon. 

APPLE CHUTNEY 

12 sour green apples 2 cupfuls brown sugar 

I large onion juice of 2 lemons 

3 peppers i tablespoonful salt 

I cupful chopped raisins i teaspoonful ginger 

I pint vinegar 34 teaspoonful cloves 

I teaspoonful cassia 

Make a syrup of the vinegar, sugar, lemon juice, 
salt and spices. Chop finely the apples, onions and 
peppers. Mix and when boiling hot add a cupful 
of tart jelly. Stir well. Cook slowly one hour. 
Bottle while hot and dip the corks in paraffin. 

APPLE CEREAL PIE 

I pint boiling water %. cupful sugar 

I cupful breakfast cereal 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

34 teaspoonful salt lemon rind and nutmeg 

3 cupfuls sliced apples to flavor 



10 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Pour the boiling water over the cereal and let it 
stand until the cereal is well swollen, about two 
hours. Then stir in the apples and other ingredi- 
ents. Turn into a pie plate and bake an hour in a 
slow oven. Serve hot with cream. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Mix one cupful each of small pieces of celery, 
apple cut in cubes and English walnuts broken in 
small pieces. Add one teaspoon ful salt, two table- 
spoonfuls orange juice and the grated rind of one 
orange. Add one cupful of mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

2 egg yolks 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

I cupful oil jA teaspoonful salt 

Add the salt to the vinegar. Beat the yolks well, 
then add the oil gradually, beating rapidly all the 
time. As it becomes stiff, thin with a few drops of 
the vinegar at frequent intervals. 

APPLE WATER 

1 large juicy apple 

2 cup ful s water 
sugar 

Wash, pare and core apple and cut into pieces; 
add water and simmer until tender; strain, add 
sugar to water. Cook five minutes, chill and serve. 



APPLES 11 

If liked, a small amount of lemon juice may be 
added. 

PRESERVED APPLES 

4 lbs. apples 3 cupfuls water 

4 lbs. sugar juice and rind of a lemon 

Wash, pare and quarter apples; keep in water 
until ready to use. Cook sugar and water five 
minutes ; add apples, cook until tender. Add lemon 
juice and rind. Fill jars with apples, then fill with 
syrup and seal. 

CANNED APPLES AND QUINCES 

4 lbs. quinces 2 lbs. sugar 

2 lbs. apples i qt. water 

Pare and quarter the quinces and apples, let stand 
in cold water to prevent discoloration. Cook in boil- 
ing water until tender, then simmer in sugar and 
water syrup for ten minutes. Arrange in jars, fill 
with syrup and seal. 

CANNED APPLES AND PINEAPPLE 

4 lbs. apples 2 lbs. sugar 

4 lbs. pineapple 2 pints water 

rind of 4 lemons 

Pare, core and cut the apples in rings. Cut pine- 
apple in slices, remove skin and eyes and cut pulp 
into squares, being careful to reject the core. Boil 
sugar and water five minutes ; add pineapple ; cook 



12 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

until tender; then cook apples until tender; add 
lemon rind; fill jars, which have been sterilized, 
with the apple and pineapple. Adjust rings, fill jars 
with syrup, adjust covers and seal. Jelly can be 
made of the peel and cores of apples and pineapples 
by covering with cold water, letting boil until soft. 
Strain and proceed as for apple jelly. 

CANNED APPLES 

4 lbs. apples juice and rind of two 

I lb. sugar lemons 

2 pints water 

Pare and core the apples ; cover with cold water. 
Boil sugar and water five minutes; add apples and 
simmer until tender; add lemon juice and rind; 
place apples in sterilized jars; fill to overflowing 
with syrup; adjust rubbers and covers. Set in a 
cold place until cool, then keep in dark dry closet. 

APPLE GINGER 

4 lbs. sour apples 2 lbs. sugar 

4 lemons i oz. white ginger root 

Pare, core and chop apples; wash, remove seeds 
and chop lemons; add sugar and ginger root, and 
cook very slowly six hours or put in fireless cooker 
over night. Pour into glasses and cover. 

APPLE MARMALADE 

Wash, core and cut apples in slices ; put in kettle, 
add enough water to keep apples from burning. 



APPLES 13 

Cook slowly until mushy, press through sieve, add 
equal amounts of sugar and apples and flavor with 
orange or lemon juice. Cook until stiff; fill glasses 
and cover. 

APPLE JELLY 

Wash and wipe fruit. Remove the stems ; cut in 
pieces, put in preserving kettle, nearly cover with 
cold water ; cook very slowly until apples are tender. 
Pour into jelly bag and drain thoroughly, but do not 
squeeze. Measure juice, allow one pound of sugar 
to every pint of juice. Boil juice twenty minutes; 
add sugar which has been heated on a platter in 
the oven, stir until sugar is dissolved; boil five 
minutes or until it jellies. Skim when necessary. 
Have jelly glasses standing in a pan of hot water ; 
pour jelly into them; let stand until hard and cover 
first with paper or melted paraffin. Keep in cool, 
dry, dark place. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

y^ cupful pearl tapioca Yi cupful sugar 

4 cupfuls boiling water grated rind and juice of 

Yi teaspoonful salt i lemon 

8 apples 

Cook the tapioca in boiling water until trans- 
parent; add one-half teaspoonful salt and lemon 
rind. Core and pare apples, arrange in baking dish, 
fill cavities with sugar and lemon juice, cover with 
tapioca and bake until apples are tender, adding a 
teaspoonful of butter before taking from the oven. 



14 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

APPLE MERINGUE 

8 apples Yz teaspoon ful salt 

3 ^Z% yolks 2 cupfuls milk 

^ cupful sugar i teaspoonful vanilla 

Core apples and bake until tender. Make a cus- 
tard of the remaining ingredients ; pour over baked 
apples. Cover with meringue made of the whites 
of the eggs and three tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar. 

FRIED APPLES AND ONIONS 

3 apples 
6 onions 
bacon fat 

Fry the onions until almost tender, then add the 
sliced apples. Serve with baked potatoes. 

FRIED APPLES WITH SAUSAGE 

Yz lb. sausage 
6 apples 
54 cupful brown sugar 

Slice the apples after coring them, sprinkle the 
sugar over them and fry with the sausages until a 
light brown. 

STEWED APPLES AND RAISINS 

Pare and core eight apples. Arrange in baking 
dish; fill cavities with apple jelly and chopped 
raisins. Cook until tender, basting with hot water, 



APPLES 15 

sugar and lemon juice. Ten minutes before re- 
moving from oven, stick almonds cut in small pieces 
into the apples. 

APPLE INDIAN PUDDING 

2 cupfuls quartered apples %. cupful com meal 
^ cupful molasses 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

y2 cupful brown sugar i teaspoonful salt 

4 cupfuls milk cinnamon and nutmeg 

Scald milk ; pour on the corn meal ; add remaining 
ingredients; pour into buttered baking dish, and 
cook in slow oven four hours, keeping dish covered 
for three hours. Stir occasionally. 

APPLE BATTER PUDDING 

I cupful milk I teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful flour 2 cupfuls quartered apples 

2 eggs 2 teaspoon fuls lemon juice 
2 tablespoonfuls butter %. cupful sugar 

Mix sugar, salt, flour, eggs and milk. When 
smooth, add apples ; pour into buttered baking dish 
and bake in a moderate oven one hour. Serve im- 
mediately with hard sauce. 

HARD SAUCE 

J^ cupful butter 
I cupful powdered sugar 
I teaspoonful vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar together, add vanilla. 



16 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



APPLE CHARLOTTE 

8 slices of bread i cupful of sugar 

Yz cupful of butter i tablespoonful lemon juice 

6 apples /4 cupful chopped almonds 

I tablespoonful butter 

Dip bread in melted butter; butter mold; cut 
bread into strips an inch wide and the height of 
the mold. Line bottom and sides of mold with 
bread. Pare and cut up apples; add sugar, water 
and lemon juice, cook until apples are soft. Add 
chopped almonds, i tablespoonful butter ; pour into 
lined mold, cover with slices of buttered bread and 
bake half an hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 

BROWN BETTY 

4 cupfuls sliced apples Yi teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 3^' cupfuls soft bread ^ cupful butter 

crumbs I cupful chopped and 

I cupful sugar seeded raisins 

J4 teaspoonful salt ^ cupful molasses 

Arrange apples and crumbs in layers in a but- 
tered pudding dish, having crumbs on top layer. 
Sprinkle each layer with sugar and cinnamon and 
dot with bits of butter. Add molasses and raisins, 
then layer of crumbs and bake in slow o\en one 
hour. 

BIRDS' NESTS 

8 apples 2 cupfuls milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 3 ^gg yolks 

I teaspoonful salt 3 ^gg whites 



APPLES 17 

Arrange cored and pared apples in a buttered 
baking dish. Mix sugar, flour, milk. Add yolks 
of eggs. When well blended add the well-beaten 
whites. Pour this mixture over apples and bake in 
a moderate oven until apples are tender. 

SCALLOPED APPLE 

I cupful sugar i^^ cupfuls soft bread 
Yz teaspoonful cinnamon crumbs 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 4 cupfuls sliced applep 

grated rind of one lemon ^ teaspoonful salt 

Yi cupful butter >4 cupful water 

Arrange crumbs and apples in layers in a but- 
tered pudding dish, having crumbs on top layer. 
Sprinkle each layer with sugar and cinnamon and 
dot with butter. Add lemon juice, rind of lemon 
and water just before sprinkling on the last layer. 
Bake in slow oven one hour. 



APPLE SOUFFLE 

3 cupfuls quartered apples 3 ^gg yolks 
2 tablespoonfuls butter 6 ^gg whites 

y^ cupful sugar nutmeg and lemon juice 

Steam apples; add butter, sugar, yolks of eggs 
and flavoring. Cool, cut and fold in beaten whites, 
turn into buttered pudding dish and bake forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 



18 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

STEAMED APPLES WITH GINGER 

Pare and core firm, tart apples. Steam until 
tender, then cover with the syrup from preserved 
ginger and cook slowly until transparent. Place an 
apple in individual dish, pour syrup over and serve 
with cream. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING NO. i 

2 cupfuls flour I teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls lard Y^ cupful sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls butter %. cupful water 

Yz teaspoonful baking pow- 8 apples cored 

der cinnamon and nutmeg 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Work in 
lard and butter. When well mixed, add water. 
Cut paste in eight rounds, place apples in center 
of rounds, fill cavity with sugar and flavoring. 
Draw paste around apple, place in baking pan rough 
side down. Bake forty-five minutes. Serve with 
Lemon Sauce or Cream. 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch i cupful sugar 
2 cupfuls water grated rind and juice of 

1Y2 tablespoonfuls butter a lemon 

Mix cornstarch with sugar. Add boiling water 
and cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring and but- 
ter. Serve hot. 



APPLES 19 

BAKED APPLES 

Core eight apples, arrange in baking dish, fill 
cavities with butter and sugar. Bake until tender, 
basting with sugar and water. When done, arrange 
in serving dish; sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING NO. 2 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough, roll 
thin and cut into six-inch squares. Into the center 
of each place three or four thin slices of apples and 
fold the dough around them forming a ball. Ar- 
range in a deep baking dish and over them pour a 
syrup made by boiling for five minutes one cupful 
of granulated sugar with one-half cupful of water. 
Bake in a slow oven and serve hot with whipped 
cream. 

NEW ENGLAND BAKED APPLES 

Butter a quart baking dish, fill with peeled and 
quartered apples, dust lightly with cinnamon. Pour 
in one cupful of maple syrup, cover and bake in 
slow oven until fruit is tender. Serve with cream. 

APPLE SPONGE 

54 cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

54 cupful milk der 

2 eggs 5 sliced apples 

I cupful flour 5^ teaspoonful salt 



20 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Beat eggs; add sugar, flour in which baking 
powder has been sifted, and milk. Beat well; add 
apples, pour into buttered baking dish and bake 
in a moderate oven one hour. Serve with vanilla 
sauce. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

Yi cupful butter i cupful cream 

I cupful powdered sugar i tablespoonful vanilla 

Cream butter; add sugar, beaten cream and fla- 
voring. Heat over hot water until all is liquid. 
Serve hot. 



II. CRAB-APPLES 



CRAB-APPLE PIE 



Slice the apples but do not peel them. Fill the 
pie with them and cover with bits of butter and 
one and one-half cupfuls of sugar. Do not add 
any other seasoning, as the crab-apples have a 
flavor all their own. 

SPICED CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

One peck of crab-apples put on to cook in one- 
half vinegar and one-half water. Cook until apples 
are all soft. Then strain and measure juice. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of broken cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls of whole allspice, one tablespoonful whole 
cloves in two muslin bags and put into juice. Cook, 
and when the spice tastes just right, not too strong, 
take the bags out. Cook the juice until it jellies, 
when tried with one tablespoonful of juice and 
same of sugar. Have the same quantity of sugar 
in a bowl as you have of juice. Pour the juice onto 
sugar. When sugar is dissolved, it will thicken. 
Pour it into glasses. Sour apples can be used the 
same way. 

21 



22 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

Wash and clean out any imperfections in apples 
but do not cut up or pare. Almost cover with water 
and cook slowly until soft enough to strain. Al- 
low first to drain through a colander, then allow 
the juice to drip through a jelly bag, without 
squeezing. Add a cupful of sugar to each cupful 
of juice and boil twenty minutes, removing scum as 
it rises. Strain again and pour into jelly tumblers 
and when cold cover with melted paraffin. 



III. PEARS 



PEAR CHIPS 



4 pounds pears >^ pound of Canton pre- 

2 pounds granulated sugar served ginger 

2 lemons 

Weigh the pears after peeling and coring, cut 
them into eighths, sprinkle the sugar over them and 
stand over night, then add the ginger cut in small 
pieces and the lemon sliced thin. Cook very slowly 
for two hours, put in sterilized jars and seal. 

SPICED PEARS 

J^ peck of pears i ounce stick cinnamon 

2 pounds brown sugar cloves if liked 

2 cupfuls vinegar 

Boil the vinegar, sugar and cinnamon together 
for fifteen minutes. Wash, pare, quarter, and core 
the pears. Stick two whole cloves into each quarter. 
Cook a few pears at a time in the syrup until tender. 
Pack in sterilized jars and seal. 

BAKED PEARS 

Take as many winter pears as you wish to use 
and put them into an agate baking dish, cover with 

23 



24 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

equal parts of water and molasses and bake until 
tender. 

PEAR CONSERVE 

5 pounds pears Yi pound raisins 

3 pounds sugar i pound English walnuts 

2 oranges small jar preserved ginger 

3 lemons with syrup 

Peel pears and cut in small pieces. Put sugar 
on and stand over night. In the morning bring to 
a boil, take out the pears and cook the juice until a 
good syrup, then add raisins, grated rind and juice 
of oranges and lemons and cook fifteen minutes. 
Chop the nuts and ginger, add them to syrup, also 
the pears, and cook half an hour. Put in jelly 
glasses. 

PEAR BUTTER 

8 pounds pared and cored 2 pounds sugar 
pears juice one lemon 

4 quarts grape juice 

Cover the pears with the sugar, grape juice and 
lemon juice ; simmer for two hours. Then put them 
in a slow oven over night or in a fireless cooker. 
Put in jelly glasses and cover with paraffin and 
paper. 

COMPOTE OF PEARS 

Soak dried California pears in water over night, 
arrange them around a mound of boiled rice. To 
the water in which the pears were soaked add 



PEAES 25 

enough sugar to make it very sweet, and boil it 
down to a syrup, then add a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Pour the hot syrup over the fruit. Serve 
cold. 

CANNED PEAR AND ORANGE SALAD 

Half a cupful of diced canned pears, three 
oranges, separated into sections, a quarter of a cup- 
ful of minced celery and cream salad dressing. Ar- 
range on lettuce leaves and serve with toasted 
crackers. 

PEAR TRIFLE 

Slice and stew five or six pears in a syrup made 
with a pint each of sugar and water, flavored with 
the juice of a lemon. In a baking dish arrange a 
thin layer of sponge cake, then a layer of the pears, 
topped with a second layer of sponge cake, then 
another of pears, finishing with a third layer of 
sponge cake. Over the whole pour the yolks of 
two eggs whipped with two-thirds of a cupful of 
sugar. Bake till lightly browned, then add to the 
top a meringue of the whites of the eggs; replace 
in the oven till well browned, and serve very cold. 

PEARS WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Pare four Bartlett pears, cut in quarters, length- 
wise, and saute in butter until browned. Arrange 
in serving dish and pour over the following sauce. 
Chill thoroughly before serving. For the sauce 
put two ounces sweet chocolate, one tablespoon ful 



26 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

sugar, and one and one-fourth cupfuls cold milk in 
double boiler, and let cook five minutes, then add 
one teaspoonful arrowroot mixed with one-fourth 
cupful thin cream and a few grains salt, and cook 
ten minutes, stirring constantly. Melt one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls butter, add one-fourth cup- 
ful powdered sugar, and cook until well caramel- 
ized, stirring constantly. Add to first mixture and 
flavor with one-half teaspoonful vanilla. 

CANNED PEARS 

Cut a dozen Bartlett pears in halves, leaving the 
stem on one half, pare and remove the cores. Make 
a syrup of one cupful and a half, each, of sugar and 
water and the juice of one lemon; skim, put in the 
pears and cook ten minutes, after boiling begins. 
With a silver fork drop the pears into a sterilized 
quart jar, set on a cloth in a pan of water, pour in 
syrup to fill the jar to overflow, adjust the rubber 
and the sterilized cover and tighten the jar. 

CANNED PEARS FROZEN 

Pack a can of pears in ice and salt and leave for 
four hours, then open the can and turn out the 
frozen contents. 

CANDIED PEARS 

Choose nice large ripe but firm pears for this 
purpose. Peel, and halve. Make a thick syrup with 
granulated sugar and water, using a cupful of 
water to each pound of sugar. Place the pears in 



PEAES 27 

this and bring to a boil. Simmer for about five 
minutes ; then remove from fire, and let stand over 
night in the syrup. Place over the fire again, and 
allow the pears to simmer another five minutes. 
Skim carefully out on to platters, and place in the 
sun or in a slow oven until dry. Again bring the 
syrup to a boil, add the pears and simmer to the 
crystal state, then remove the pears on to platters 
again, and let dry as before. Before they are quite 
dry, sprinkle with chopped almonds. When com- 
pletely dry, pack in boxes lined with paraffin paper, 
and place a sheet of paper between each layer. 

PEAR AND LEMON MARMALADE 

Slice the lemons thin and remove the seeds. Al- 
low three pints of water to each pound of the fruit, 
and allow to stand over night in this, then in the 
morning boil until tender. To each pint of this 
boiled fruit add one pint of sliced pears and one 
pound of granulated sugar. Boil until the pears are 
tender, and the syrup begins to jelly and the fruit 
is transparent, then fill into jars and seal. 

CANNED PEAR DESSERT 

Cut squares of plain cake and on each piece lay 
half a pear. Cover with meringue and brown in a 
cool oven. Pour the juice from the can around the 
cake. 

Meringue : Beat one egg until stiff, fold in care- 
fully one-third cupful powdered sugar and a pinch 
of salt. 



IV. PEACHES 

PEACH COCKTAIL 

Peel and dice ripe fruit, allowing one peach for 
each glass. Add a few drops of lemon juice, four 
maraschino cherries cut in halves and three table- 
spoonfuls of the juice. 

PEACH POPOVERS 

2 cupfuls of flour 2 well beaten eggs 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- milk enough to make bat- 

der ter to drop from a 

Yz teaspoonful salt spoon 

Butter deep iron gem pans and have them siz- 
zling hot. Put a spoonful of the batter in each, then 
a layer of sliced peaches and some more of the 
batter. Bake in a quick oven and serve at once. 

PEACH PARFAIT 

I cupful mashed peaches juice of i orange 

J^ cupful water I pint heavy cream 

1 cupful sugar whipped 

2 t.gg whites a drop of bitter almond 

Boil the sugar and water together until it threads 
and pour gently into the ^gg whites which should 
be beaten stiff, whipping constantly. Combine the 

28 



PEACHES 29 

peaches and orange juice. Beat in the egg-white 
mixture, stir briskly until cool, and then fold in the 
cream and almond. Pour into a mold, cover with 
wax paper and press on the lid; if this does not fit 
very tightly, dip a cloth in melted lard or paraffin 
and bind around the edge. Pack in equal parts of 
ice and salt for four hours. If canned peaches are 
used, use three-quarters of sugar instead of one 
cupful. 

A NEW PEACH PIE 

6 medium sized peaches J^ cupful flour 

y^ cupful butter 4 tablespoonfuls water 

I cupful sugar few grains nutmeg 

flaky pastry 

Line a deep pie plate with pastry, sprinkle the 
bottom with one-half of a crumb-like mixture made 
by rubbing together the butter, sugar and flour. 
Lay on this the halved peaches, cut side down ; add 
the nutmeg and water, sprinkle on the remaining 
crumbs and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

CORN MEAL PEACH PUDDING 

Mix together the following: 

I cupful corn meal 2 cupfuls thick sour milk 

I cupful whole wheat ^ cupful molasses 

flour I pint canned peaches 

I cupful white flour 5^ teaspoon ful salt 

I teaspoonful soda 

Dissolve the soda in the sour milk. Cut the 
peaches small and drain off their juice. Mix all the 



30 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

ingredients together. Steam three hours, and serve 
with cream or a sweet sauce. 

PEACH MELBA 

Cut sponge cake in thin slices and cut off outside 
edges. Lay half a canned peach on each slice, fill 
the cavities with bits of pineapple and candied cher- 
ries. Cover with vanilla ice cream, pour a little 
pineapple syrup over the top and garnish with 
cherries. Very rich. 

PEACH MOLD 

Pare fresh peaches sufficient to make a quart and 
cook until soft in a cupful of water and three- 
quarters of a cupful of sugar. Put them through 
a sieve, pressing the pulp through with a wooden 
spoon. Soak a tablespoonful of gelatin until soft 
in quarter of a cupful of cold water, then stir it into 
the hot peach pulp. Whip a cupful of cream until 
stiff. Let the peach pulp cool, then mix and turn 
into a mold. Set on ice or pack in salt and ice for 
three hours. At serving time turn out and serve 
with sliced peaches and cream. 

PEACH PUDDING NO. i 

Butter a baking dish, slice into it enough peeled 
peaches to nearly fill it and add four tablespoonfuls 
boiling water. Sift together two cupfuls pastry 
flour, half a teaspoon ful of salt and five teaspoon- 



PEACHES 31 

fuls of baking powder ; rub in a quarter of a cupful 
of shortening, moisten with sweet milk to make a 
soft dough, spread it over the fruit and bake until 
well browned. Serve with cream and sugar. 

PEACH CROUSTADES 

Cut small rounds from thin slices of sponge cake 
and saute them in clarified butter until they become 
a deHcate brown. Drain halves of large perfect 
peaches cooked until tender in a syrup of sugar and 
water. Sprinkle the rounded sides thickly with 
grated cocoanut and place one on each slice of 
cake. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

PEACH SAUCE 

Pare, slice and rub through a coarse sieve enough 
ripe, soft peaches to make a pint. Cream two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and one cupful of sugar until 
very light, then add the peach pulp and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice by degrees and set on ice until 
ready to serve. This sauce is very good poured 
over squares of plain cake or poured around a mold 
of corn starch. 

PEACH COBBLER 

Put an inverted cup in the center of a buttered 
baking pan surrounded with one quart of peeled 
and sliced peaches; sprinkle with sugar. Sift one 
and a half cup fuls of flour with one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and half a teaspoonful of 



32 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

salt; work in one tablespoonful of shortening, 
moisten with half a cupful of milk, roll out to fit the 
size of the pan, cut two gashes in it to allow the 
steam to escape, place over the fruit and bake in a 
moderate oven. Serve with cream or peach sauce. 

PEACH AND MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

Whip half a pint of cream, sweeten to taste, fold 
in quarter of a pound of marshmallow cream 
(canned) and half a cupful of canned peach pulp 
cut fine. Chill thoroughly and serve between slices 
of peach and garnish with whole marshmallows. 
Serve with sponge cake. 

PEACH ROLY POLY 

2 cupfuls flour y2 teaspoonful salt 

234 teaspoon fuls baking i t-gg, sugar and milk 

powder 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt, 
add the yolk of the ^gg, well beaten, and enough 
sweet milk to make a soft dough. Turn on to a 
floured board, knead slightly, then roll out about 
a quarter of an inch thick, brush with softened but- 
ter, sprinkle with sugar, cover with peeled and 
sliced peaches, sprinkle again with sugar and roll 
as a jelly roll. Place in a baking pan, brush over 
with the beaten white of the ^gg, sprinkle again 
with sugar, bake about half an hour and serve with 
hard or liquid sauce. 



PEACHES 33 

PEACH AND TOMATO SALAD 

Peel and quarter six firm white peaches and six 
red tomatoes. Set them on the ice ; put into a bowl 
a saltspoonful of celery seed, a pinch of white pep- 
per and five drops of table sauce. Stir well, add 
gradually four tablespoonfuls salad oil and juice 
of a lemon. If properly mixed it will be of the 
consistency of rich cream. Arrange lettuce leaves, 
pile peaches and tomatoes in the center. When 
ready to serve pour the dressing over them. 

BAKED PEACHES 

Pour boiling water over peaches until the skins 
slip off easily. Place them in a pan, sprinkle with 
sugar, pour water over them to the depth of half 
an inch. Bake until tender and slightly brown. 
Serve with cream. 

PEACH AND RASPBERRY TRIFLE 

Bake a sponge cake in an oblong pan ; when cool 
cut in squares. Pile peeled and sliced peaches on 
each square. Heap over the tops whipped cream, 
which has been beaten with raspberry jelly or some 
fresh mashed raspberries. 

PEACH CONSERVE 

4 pounds peaches J^ pound blanched and 

I pineapple chopped almonds 

I orange ^ pound seedless raisins 

I lemon 



34 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Peel and cut the peaches in small pieces, peel and 
grate the pineapple, peel and grate the orange and 
lemon. Cook the fruits until soft and puffy. Then 
add one pound of sugar to each pint of fruit. Crush 
a few of the peach kernels and add them also. Cook 
until rich and thick, stirring frequently to prevent 
burning. Pour into marmalade jars and seal when 
cold. 

SPICED PEACHES 

Yz peck peaches i tablespoonful whole 

2 pounds brown sugar cloves 

I ounce stick cinnamon 2 inch piece ginger root 

2 cupfuls vinegar 

Tie spices in a cheesecloth bag, boil the vinegar 
and spices, scald the peaches, peel them and cook 
them in the syrup until they are tender. Put them 
in sterilized jars and seal. 

PEACH TAPIOCA 

Take the syrup from a can of peaches and add 
boiling water to make a pint. Stir in one-half tea- 
spoonful salt and one-third cupful tapioca. Cook 
in a double boiler until transparent. Butter pudding 
dish and put fruits in it. Flavor the tapioca with a 
little lemon juice and pour over the fruit. Bake 
twenty minutes and serve with cream. 

PEACH FOAM 

Soften one-half box gelatin in one-half cupful 
cold water; add one-half cupful boiling water, place 



PEACHES 35 

over hot water. Add three-quarter cupful of sugar 
and stir until dissolved. Remove from the fire, add 
one cupful strained peach pulp and one-half tea- 
spoonful bitter almond extract and let stand until 
cool. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
turn into small molds and place on ice to harden. 
Serve with thin boiled custard. 

STEWED PEACHES AND RAISINS 

Yz pound dried peaches ^ cupful sugar 

Yz cupful seedless raisins 

Wash and soak peaches over night in water 
enough to cover and stew in the water in which 
they were soaked. When about half done add the 
raisins and the sugar. Cook slowly until tender. 

PEACH CUSTARD 



I pint milk 


3 level teaspoonfuls corn- 


I ^Z% 


starch 


Yz cupful sugar 


I teaspoonful butter 



Put milk on to boil, beat the t%g very light, add 
sugar and beat until creamy. Then add the corn- 
starch which has been made smooth in a little cold 
water and cook five minutes ; lastly add the butter. 
Cool and pour over peeled and sliced peaches. 

PEACH MARMALADE 

Boil for ten minutes three pounds of sugar and 
three cupfuls of water. Add four pounds of 



36 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

peaches, peeled and cut in small pieces. Boil until 
thick, stirring to prevent burning. Turn into small 
glasses and seal when cold. 

PEACH TURNOVERS 

Make a rich pastry, roll out about half an inch 
thick and cut out round with a saucer. Put on each 
half a cupful of sliced peaches, a tablespoonful of 
sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. Moisten 
the edges of the paste with white of egg, fold over, 
press together with thumb to make the edge even 
scallops, sift powdered sugar over and bake. Serve 
with peach sauce. 

PEACH MERINGUE NO. i 

Line a deep dish with slices of stale sponge cake; 
fill with peeled and sliced peaches and sprinkle with 
sugar. Beat the whites of three eggs until very 
stiff. Fold in three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, flavor slightly with vanilla, spread over the 
peaches and brown in a hot oven. Serve cold with 
cream. 

FROZEN PEACH ROLL 

Line a mold about two inches deep with vanilla 
ice cream. Fill with sliced peaches, cover with 
vanilla ice cream. Put on the lid, bind the edges 
with a strip of buttered cloth, pack in salt and ice 
and let stand two hours. When ready to serve, 
unmold and sprinkle with macaroon crumbs. 



PEACHES 37 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

I pint milk i^ pints of peach pulp 

I pint cream 2^ cupfuls of sugar 

Add half the sugar to the peach pulp and let 
it stand for two hours, then press it again through 
a sieve. Scald the milk with half the sugar, let it 
cool, half freeze it and then add the cream and 
peach pulp and finish freezing. 

PEACH PUDDING NO. 2 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with canned 
peaches. Take half the juice from the can, add to 
it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and boil it to a 
thick syrup. 

Make a custard, using two cupfuls of milk, the 
yolks of two eggs, and a heaping tablespoonful of 
cornstarch. Cook in a double boiler for half an 
hour, then add a little of the peach syrup to sweeten 
it, and a few drops of almond extract. Sprinkle 
the peaches with blanched almonds, cut in small 
pieces, pour over them the syrup, then the custard. 
Cover the top with meringue made of the whites 
of two eggs and three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Brown the meringue. Serve the pudding 
hot or cold. 

PEACH MOUSSE 

Mash and rub enough fresh or canned peaches 
through a colander to make a cupful. Add to this 



38 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops of almond 
extract and enough sugar to sweeten it. Dissolve 
in quarter of a cupful of hot peach juice one and 
three-quarter tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatin 
which has been soaked for an hour in half a cup- 
ful of cold water. Add the gelatin to the peach 
mixture. When it begins to set, mix it until 
smooth, then fold in a half pint of cream whipped 
to a stiff froth and turn it into a mold. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

PEACHES AND CREAM 

Cut peeled peaches into slices and put them in 
the icebox. Add as much sugar to a half pint of 
cream as will be needed to sweeten the peaches. 
Whip the cream to a stiff froth. Just before 
serving, mix together lightly the peaches and 
cream; put in a covered mold, and pack in ice and 
salt. Use but little salt, for the object is to make 
them very cold and not to freeze them. 

PEACH OMELET 

Pare and put through a sieve three very ripe 
peaches. Add two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar and the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Then 
stir in carefully the whites of six well beaten eggs. 
Turn into a greased baking dish and bake in a quick 
oven for fifteen minutes. Serve at once. 



PEACHES 39 

HOT PEACH PUDDING WITH COLD SAUCE 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter with half a 
cupful of sugar, add one beaten egg yolk and half 
a cupful of milk. Beat well and add one and a half 
cupfuls of flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and a little salt. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs and turn into a shallow 
greased pan. Cover with slices of peaches and bake 
half an hour. Serve with a cold boiled custard. 

PEACHES AND RICE 

Cook a quarter of a pound of rice in three cup- 
fuls of milk with the grated rind of a lemon and a 
pinch of salt. When tender and while very moist 
add a tablespoonful of gelatin dissolved in two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling w^ater and three table- 
spoonfuls sugar. When cooled and beginning to 
set, stir in a cupful of whipped cream. Mold in a 
ring, serve with canned or fresh peaches in center. 

PEACH PUDDING NO. 3 

Drain one can peaches. Put syrup in saucepan 
and add one-third cupful sugar and a few grains 
salt. Bring to the boiling point and let simmer 
until syrup is quite thick. Chill syrup as well as 
peaches. Arrange halves of peaches, cavity side 
up, in shallow baking dish, and in each cavity put 
a marshmallow (using an inexpensive kind which 



40 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

melts more rapidly). Place in a hot oven and let 
stand until the marshmallows soften, five minutes 
being required, by which time the chilled peaches 
will not be heated through. Arrange on a serving- 
dish, pour syrup around, and serve with thin cream. 

PEACH FRITTERS 

Beat well the yolks of two eggs, add one-half 
cupful of cold water, one-quarter of a teaspoonful 
of salt and sufficient sifted flour to make a pour 
batter. Add one tablespoonful of olive oil or melted 
butter and the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff 
froth. Set away for at least tw^o hours. Pare and 
halve ripe peaches. Have ready a small deep kettle 
partly filled with smoking hot fat. Dip each half 
into the batter so that it may have a coating all 
over it, lift out with a fork and drop into the hot 
fat. Do not cook more than three or four at a 
time. Drain for a moment on unglazed paper, dust 
with powdered sugar and serve hot. 

PEACH DUMPLING 

Pare, halve and pit six large ripe peaches and 
place the halves together as they were cut. Make a 
dough precisely the same as for shortening, roll 
thin and cut with a large round cutter. Lay half 
a peach cut side up in the center of each, put a small 
bit of butter and three drops of vanilla in the center 
of each peach on the forms. Then place the re- 
maining halves of the peaches in position, fold the 



PEACHES 41 

dough over, roll gently in the hand to make ball- 
shaped, lay them on a buttered plate, but not 
closely. Set in a steamer and steam 20 minutes. 
Serve hot with peach or any sauce preferred. 

PEACH BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soften two tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatin 
in one-half cupful of cold water, add one-half cup- 
ful of boiling water and stir until dissolved, then 
add one pint of crushed peaches and one-half cup- 
ful of sugar. Stir over cracked ice until the mix- 
ture begins to thicken. Fold in the whip from one 
pint of cream, turn into a wet mold, and set aside 
until firm. Serve with a garnish of peeled and 
halved peaches. 

PEACH SURPRISE 

One quart of peaches cut up in small bits, two 
cupfuls of sugar, whites of five eggs. Do not beat 
the eggs at all; just mix everything together and 
put in the freezer and turn till stiff. This is de- 
licious. 

PEACH BLANC MANGE 

Cover one-half box gelatin with one-half cupful 
cold water and let stand one-half hour. Pour 
over one cupful of hot scalded milk and scald until 
it is dissolved. Take eight ripe peaches, peel, stone 
and put through a sieve. Add one cupful pulver- 
ized sugar. Beat one pint cream gradually into 



42 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

the' peaches and the dissolved gelatin, well mixed, 
pour into molds and stand away to harden. 

PEACH LOAF 

Remove the center from a loaf of sponge cake, 
leaving a shell about one-half inch in thickness. 
Boil four tablespoonfuls each of water and granu- 
lated sugar for three minutes. Beat in powdered 
sugar to make a frosting and spread over the top 
and sides of the cake. Then sprinkle immediately 
with finely chopped almonds. Fill with peeled and 
sliced peaches, sprinkle generously with sugar and 
serve with cream, either plain or whipped. 

PEACH PIE 

Cover a pie plate with plain pastry and cut 
enough fresh or canned peaches in halves to cover 
it. Pour in a little of the juice, and then fill up 
with sour cream ; sprinkle sugar over it generously ; 
lay strips of the pie crust across it and bake slowly. 

DEEP PEACH PIE 

Line a deep pie dish with rich pie paste, and on 
this put canned peaches with the hollow side up. 
In each hollow put a bit of butter and a spoonful 
of sugar. Thicken the juice from the canned 
peaches with a little cornstarch and turn over the 
halves. Bake until the crust is brown and the 
peaches very tender. Serve cold with plain cream. 



PEACHES 43 

PEACH AND RAISIN PUDDING 



^ cupful of white flour 


I tablespoonful of butter 


Yz cupful of whole-wheat 


% cupful of milk 


flour 


I ^Zg 


I teaspoonful of baking 


y2 teaspoonful of salt 


powder 


Yz cupful of halved raisins 


2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 


I cupful of diced canned 


Yz teaspoonful of grated 


peaches, drained of 


nutmeg 


their juice 



Sift the white flour with the baking powder and 
salt. Add the whole-wheat flour, sugar, nutmeg, 
well-beaten ^gg, milk, raisins and peaches. Mix 
well and steam in a buttered mold for three hours. 
Serve hot with lemon or hard sauce. 

INDIVIDUAL PEACH PUDDING 

Allow half a canned peach for each individual 
pudding dish. Make a batter by pressing through 
a colander two extra peach halves, adding a well- 
beaten egg-yolk, quarter cupful of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, pinch of salt, three- fourths 
cupful of flour and one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. 

Beat well and fold in beaten white of ^gg. Put 
a little of this batter in the bottom of a buttered 
dish, lay on a half peach, cover with two table- 
spoonfuls of the batter and sprinkle with granu- 
lated sugar. Put in a moderate oven and bake for 
twenty minutes. 

Serve in molds with a spoonful of hard sauce on 



44 FKUITS AND THEIE COOKEEY 

each, or turn from molds and serve with plain 
cream. 

PEACH RICE PUDDING 

I quart of milk I tablespoonful of butter 

Yz cupful of rice I teaspoonful lemon ex- 

Yz teaspoonful of salt tract 

canned sliced peaches whipped cream, sweet- 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar ened and flavored 

Wash the rice well, add the milk, sugar, butter 
and salt. Bake in a moderate oven until the rice is 
soft and creamy. Flavor with the extract, and cool 
before using. Place the pudding in individual 
dessert dishes, garnish with sliced peaches and heap 
the whipped cream on top. 

PEACH SPONGE 

The sponge cake to be used in this manner may 
be either fresh or stale. Cut the cake with a sharp 
knife into slices and place in individual sherbert 
glasses. Pour over each piece of cake a few spoon- 
fuls of peach juice and a half peach to each glass. 
Cover with whipped cream, slightly sweetened and 
flavored with bitter almond. 

GOLDEN PEACH PUDDING 

Fill a pudding dish with whole peeled peaches and 
pour over them two cupfuls of water. Cover 
closely and bake until peaches are tender, then drain 
off the juice from the peaches and let it stand until 
cool. Add to the juice one pint sweet milk, four 



PEACHES 45 

well-beaten eggs, a small cup of flour with one tea- 
spoonful baking powder mixed in it, one cupful 
sugar, one tablespoon ful melted butter and a little 
salt. Beat well three or four minutes, then pour 
over peaches in dish. Bake in the dish until a 
rich brown and serve with milk. 

PEACH BREAD PUDDING 

On a pint of fine stale bread or cracker crumbs 
pour boiling water and stir in a tablespoonful of 
melted butter. After standing till thoroughly 
soaked, add two well-beaten eggs and half a cupful 
of sugar. On the bottom of a buttered pudding 
dish put a thin layer of this batter, over it a layer 
of sliced peaches and so on, dredging each layer of 
peaches with sugar, until the dish is full, having 
batter at the top. Bake in a moderate oven about 
an hour. 

PEACH STEAMED PUDDING 

1 cupful flour 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 
54 teaspoonful salt i cupful sugar 

2 cupfuls fine bread crumbs 2 cupfuls peaches 
Yz cupful chopped nuts 3 eggs 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, 
lemon-juice and peaches. Beat well. Pour into 
buttered molds and steam two hours. Serve with 
cream. 



y. PLUMS 

PLUMS IN RICE BORDER 

Cook half cupful rice in milk until tender and 
quite dry, adding a pinch of salt when it is half 
done. Make it rather sweet with powdered sugar 
and pour into a border mold to set. When ready to 
serve, turn it out carefully and fill the center with 
rich stewed plums. Pour a little of the syrup over 
the rice and heap whipped cream over the plums. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

Put one large basket of plums into preserving 
kettle, cover with water and boil until soft. Re- 
move stones and boil them a few minutes in a little 
water. Add this water to the plums, add one- fourth 
pound chopped walnuts, one-half pound raisins, six 
cupfuls sugar, grated peel of four oranges and the 
juice ; do not use the white skin. Boil all together 
until it thickens. Put in jars boiling hot and seal 
at once. 

PLUM CHARLOTTE 

Remove the stones from a dozen plums, put them 
in a saucepan just covered with water. Add sugar 
enough to sweeten, stew them until tender. Line a 
mold with lady fingers or thin strips of sponge 

46 



PLUMS 47 

cake, fill with the hot plums, cover with more cake 
and let get icy cold. Serve with cream. 

PLUMS IN BATTER 

Make a batter with two beaten eggs, five table- 
spoonfuls of flour, a little more than one pint of 
milk and a pinch of salt. Remove the stones from 
one quart of large ripe plums, crack them, put the 
kernels inside of the plums again, mix the fruit 
with two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar and stir 
it lightly into the batter. Turn it into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a hot oven till done, about 
forty minutes. Sprinkle pow^dered sugar over the 
top and serve hot with one-half cupful of butter, 
one cupful of sugar and one well-beaten tgg, stirred 
to a cream and flavored. 

PRESERVED DAMSONS 

Wipe damsons with a piece of cheese-cloth wrung 
out of cold water, and prick each five or six times, 
using a large needle ; then weigh. Put three- fourths 
their weight of sugar in a large stew-pan, and to 
each pound of sugar add one cupful of boiling 
water. As soon as sugar and water reach the boil- 
ing point, add plums a few at a time, that fruit may 
keep in better shape during the cooking. Cook until 
plums are soft, which may easily be determined by 
piercing with a small wooden skewer. It is an 
excellent idea to use two kettles, that the work may 



48 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

be done more quickly and the syrup may not cook 
too long a time. 

SPICED PLUMS 

Wipe five pounds of plums with a piece of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water, and prick each five 
or six times, using a large needle. Put two and 
one-half pounds of brown sugar in a saucepan, and 
pour over one quart of vinegar ; then add two ounces 
of cloves, one ounce of stick cinnamon broken into 
pieces, one ounce of allspice-berries, and one ounce 
of mace (all tied in a piece of muslin). Bring mix- 
ture to the boiling point, and let boil ten minutes. 
Pour over plums, cover, and let stand over night. 
In the morning, drain plums from syrup again, 
bring syrup to the boiling point, let boil ten min- 
utes, and pour over plums. Cover, let stand over 
night, drain, and repeat the process a third time. 

PLUM JELLY 

Put the plums into the preserving kettle with 
water to cover. Cook slowly until the plums will 
mash readily, then turn into a jelly bag, and drip 
until pulp is dry. Boil the juice rapidly twenty 
minutes, skim well, remove from fire and measure. 
Let come to a boil again and add as many cupfuls 
of sugar as you had juice. Let boil until it jellies, 
which will be fifteen to twenty minutes. Pour into 
glasses and when cold cover and put in a cool, dry 
place. 



PLUMS 49 

PLUM JAM 

Wash and halve the plums, but do not remove 
the stones. Add enough water to barely cover and 
cook slowly, mashing with a wire potato masher 
several times. When the fruit is soft and the stones 
have fallen out set aside and let stand until cool. 
Remove the stones, which will have come to the 
top. Add pound for pound of sugar to the fruit 
and juice and cook until thick. If a plum butter 
or marmalade is desired put through a sieve and re- 
heat before canning. 

PLUM PIE 

Cover pie plate with plain paste; fill with the 
following: Two cupfuls pitted plums, half a cupful 
of sugar; dredge with flour, add two tablespoon fuls 
lemon juice and one tablespoon ful butter, cover 
with paste and bake. 

SWEET PICKLED PLUMS 

Prick four pounds of plums with a needle in two 
or three places to keep them from bursting. Put 
them with layers of cloves and cinnamon into glass 
jars. Make a syrup of two pounds of sugar and 
one quart of vinegar and pour it hot over the plums. 
Next day pour off the vinegar, boil it up and pour 
again over the fruit. Cover the jars. This im- 
proves by keeping for some weeks before using. 



VI. QUINCES 

QUINCE CUSTARDS 

Pare, core and slice two quinces and two apples, 
cover with one pint of cold water and simmer gently 
until the fruit is very tender, then strain. Return 
the liquid to the fire and add from one-half to three- 
quarters of a cupful of sugar according to the 
acidity of the fruit. Beat well together eight eggs, 
first putting aside the whites of two. Pour the 
fruit mixture gradually over the eggs, return to 
the fire and stir until of a rich custard consistence. 
In the bottom of each custard cup place a piece 
of stale cake dipped in fruit juice. When the cus- 
tard is cool fill the cups and heap on each some of a 
meringue made by whipping together to a stiff froth 
the reserved whites of the eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar and a few drops of lemon 
juice. 

SPANISH QUINCE PIE 

Line a deep earthen pie plate with puff paste, 
prick it with a fork, and bake brown. When done, 
fill it with a layer of quince marmalade, and cover 
with another deep layer of whipped cream, slightly 
sweetened and flavored with pineapple juice. Dec- 
orate with pieces of angelica and preserved cher- 
ries, and serve cold. 

50 



QUINCES 51 

QUINCE HONEY 

Pare, quarter and seed ripe quinces, keeping the 
parings and cores to make jelly. Grate the pared 
fruit on a coarse grater, or put through the food 
chopper using the fine knife. Measure, and for 
every cup of the pulp allow three-fourths of a cup- 
ful of granulated sugar. Make the sugar into a 
syrup adding enough water to keep from burning, 
then when it is dissolved stir in the quince pulp and 
cook slowly until the whole is a rich syrup about 
like thick honey. Seal while hot. 

BAKED QUINCES 

Peel and core the quinces, place in a baking dish, 
fill the cavities with sugar, add a little grated lemon 
rind, pour in enough water to half fill the dish, 
cover and bake several hours in a moderate oven. 
Serve while hot with a hard sauce. 

QUINCE AND PEAR PRESERVE 

Pare one peck of quinces and cut into one-quarter 
or one-eighth pieces, just cover with hot water and 
cook moderately until tender. Take quince out on 
a platter when cooked, then peel one-half peck ripe 
pears, cut up in one-quarter pieces, cook in the 
same liquid until tender. When cooked take out, 
and put on platter. Make a syrup from the liquid 
that the fruit was cooked in; to every two cupfuls 
of liquid add one cupful of heated sugar. Boil 



52 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

'liquid first, then add heated sugar. Cook until a 
syrup, then add all the fruit. Cook moderately un- 
til fruit is thoroughly heated through. Put up in 
air-tight jars. 

QUINCE PRESERVE 

Pare, core and weigh the fruit, put in preserving 
kettle with one pint of water to every pound of 
fruit, and boil ten minutes, or until tender enough 
to pass straw through them. If they are not per- 
fectly ripe they will require longer boiling. Take 
out, one at a time, and place on dishes to drain. 
Allow one pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. 
Put the sugar in a kettle with enough water to dis- 
solve it, then put in the fruit and boil until the 
cloudy look disappears, skimming all the time. Lay 
the fruit on a dish to cool, then put in jars and pour 
the hot syrup over it. 

QUINCE MARMALADE 

Cook the skins of the quinces in boiling water 
nearly one hour, then drain off the water and pour 
it over quartered unpeeled quinces from which the 
seeds have been removed. Let all cook until the 
quinces are very tender, then press through a fine 
colander. Measure and allow three-quarters of a 
cupful of sugar for each cupful of the quince pulp, 
and cook the pulp for twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Then add the heated sugar, cook to the 



QUINCES 53 

consistency of marmalade and store as for jelly 
or conserve. 

PRESERVED QUINCES 

Wash, pare and core the quinces, weigh and al- 
low equal weight of sugar. Cover fruit with cold 
water, cover kettle and cook slowly until thick and 
dark. Put into sterilized jars. 

QUINCE AND SWEET APPLE PRESERVE 

Pare the quinces, cut in quarters and remove the 
cores and woody portions beneath. Cook the skins 
with water to cover until soft, then strain off this 
water and in it cook the quinces until tender; add 
half the quantity of sweet cooking apples prepared 
like the quinces — it will take much longer for the 
quinces to cook than the apples. Always let the 
fruit stand in cold water after peeling until the 
time for cooking, and only cook as much fruit at 
a time as the liquid will cover. When all the fruit 
has been cooked and removed with a skimmer, add 
to the liquor a pound of sugar for each pound of 
quince, and half a pound of sugar for each pound 
of apples. Boil the syrup for five minutes, skim, 
add the fruit and let cook slowly until transparent 
and a good color. Drain out the fruit, pack in 
sterilized hot jars and pour the boiling hot syrup 
over, filling the jars to overflowing. Seal airtight 
as for canned fruit. 



54 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

HONEY QUINCE JELLY 

One of the reasons that there are so many fail- 
ures in making good quince jelly lies in the fact 
that the quince seeds are cooked with the fruit. 
These tend to produce a mucilage-like syrup that is 
very hard to *'jell/' no matter how carefully it is 
cooked. To make a jelly with honey, boil the 
quince juice, secured in the usual manner, for about 
twenty minutes. Use three-quarters of a cupful 
of sweetening to each cupful of the juice. Let half 
the measure of sweetening be strained honey. Boil 
until the mixture jellies. It should not take longer 
than five minutes. 



VII. APRICOTS 



FROZEN APRICOTS 



Remove the skins from one quart of canned ap- 
ricots and cut them in small pieces; add the juice, 
one quart of water and two cupfuls of sugar and 
stir until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze and allow 
the mixture to stand an hour before serving. 



APRICOT SOUFFLE 

Press through a sieve one cupful of stewed apri- 
cots, add three- fourths cupful of sugar. Cook until 
thick; then add the stiffly beaten whites of four 
eggs. Cut them in, as you would for sponge cake, 
and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Yz cupful apricot jam or ^ cupful water 

juice I teaspoonful cornstarch 

Yt, cupful sugar i tablespoonful lemon juice 

few grains salt 

Rub the cornstarch smooth with a little of the 
water and boil all ingredients together for ten 
minutes. Serve over boiled rice or plain cornstarch 
pudding. 

55 



56 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

APRICOT ROLL 

Wash a half pound of dried apricots and soak 
over night. Put to cook in the double boiler next 
morning in fresh water to cover, adding a tiny 
pinch of soda to neutralize the acidity. When they 
have swelled to full size, or in about an hour, 
sweeten to taste and cook for twenty minutes 
longer. Meantime make a rich biscuit dough, using 
whole-wheat flour. Two cupfuls of flour, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and three table- 
spoonfuls of shortening, with water or milk suffi- 
cient to make a dough, which can be rolled out thin. 
Roll out thin, spread lightly with butter, then spread 
with the drained apricots. Sprinkle with sugar. 
Roll up, pinch the ends to keep together, then bake 
in a greased pan after rubbing the top with shorten- 
ing. Baste once with melted shortening mixed with 
some of the hot fruit juice. When brown remove 
to platter, and serve with the apricot liquid cooked 
down until syrupy and thickened with a teaspoonful 
of cornstarch wet with a little cold water. 

DRIED APRICOT SHERBET 

Soak half a pound of dried apricots in cold water 
over night; pour off the water, strain it through 
cheesecloth and return to the apricots with as 
much boiling water as is needed to cook them. Let 
cook rapidly until tender; when done there should 
be one quart of apricots and liquid; press through 



APEICOTS 57 

a sieve, add one quart of water, two cupfuls and a 
half of sugar and the juice of a lemon and freeze 
as any sherbet. For a smoother sherbet, cook the 
sugar in the pulp five or six minutes, then cool, add 
the cold water and freeze. 

APRICOT PARFAIT 

I pint of apricot fruit pulp I lemon 

I pint of cream 6 almonds, chopped 

Add the lemon juice to the fruit pulp and then 
stir in the cream and the chopped almonds. Put 
the cream into a mold and pack it in ice and rock 
salt for three hours. It will make a pint and a 
half of cream. 

APRICOT ICE 

Put one quart of apricots through a colander, add 
the same amount of water, the yolks of four eggs 
well beaten, sugar enough to make sweet, one pint 
of cream and then the stiffly-beaten whites of the 
eggs. Mix together and freeze. 

APRICOT ICE FOR AN INVALID 

Into a pound baking powder can with tight seams 
place one-fourth cupful of apricot juice, one-third 
of a cupful of water and two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice. Sweeten with two tablespoonfuls of syrup 
made by cooking together for ten minutes equal 
quantities of sugar and water. Strained and 
bottled this gives a ripe flavor which the raw sugar 



58 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

lacks. Ice creams for an invalid should be made 
of pure, thin cream, flavored. The cooked custard 
creams are not so easily digested. To freeze, place 
the can in a larger kettle and surround with three 
cups of ice to every cup of salt. Be sure the mixture 
reaches the height of the liquid to be frozen. Twirl 
the can for about fifteen minutes, and serve imme- 
diately. The whole operation should take only one- 
half hour. 

APRICOT SPONGE 

I cupful sugar Yi box sparkling gelatin 

I pound apricots juice of one-half lemon 

whites of 2 eggs 

Soak gelatin in one-fourth cupful of cold water. 
Cook apricots until soft. Strain, add to juice enough 
hot water to make two cupfuls and pour over gela- 
tin. Put apricots through colander and add two 
cupfuls of pulp to gelatin. Beat with wire whip 
until cold and stiff or nearly so, then add lemon 
juice and beaten whites of eggs. Beat well and 
turn into mold. When ready to serve, slice cake 
and drop a spoonful of whipped cream on each 
slice. 

RICE WITH APRICOTS 

Boil one cupful of well-washed rice in a kettle 
of salted water until tender, turn it into a well but- 
tered mold, tapping and shaking to pack it slightly, 
then stand over hot water for five minutes. Turn 
carefully out on a hot platter and over it pour one- 
half of a can of apricots mashed and heated. 



APRICOTS 59 

EVAPORATED APRICOT PRESERVE 

Soak one pound of apricots over night; add one 
pound of sugar and cook gently until thick. Serve 
with cream. 

APRICOT MARMALADE 

Wipe and cut four pounds of apricots in halves. 
Remove the stones, cut the apricots in small pieces. 
Add four pounds of hot sugar and cook slowly for 
two hours; add the juice of two lemons. Put into 
jelly glasses and cover. 



K 



VIII. ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 

ORANGE AND ONION SALAD 

2 oranges lettuce 

Yz Spanish onion French dressing 

Peel and slice the oranges; slice the onion and 
mix. Arrange on lettuce leaves. Serve with 
French dressing. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Into a small dish put 

Yz teaspoonful of salt i tablespoonful vinegar or 

y^ teaspoonful black pepper lemon 

4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE NO. i 

I tablespoonful flour 13^ cupfuls boiling water 

I cupful sugar i tablespoonful butter 

I orange finely shredded 

Mix the flour with the sugar and add gradually 
the boiling water. Put in a saucepan over the fire, 
and when the mixture boils, add the butter and 
orange. Boil until the sauce is like thick cream, 
serve either hot or cold. Good on any boiled or 
baked pudding. 

60 



OEANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 61 



ORANGE APRICOT MARMALADE 

4 quarts apricots 
4 large oranges 
6 cupfuls sugar 

Wash the apricots and pit them. Mash and put 
into a granite kettle over a slow fire. With a sharp 
thin-bladed knife pare off the yellow part of the 
rind and cut it in threads with the scissors (be sure 
not to have the white part of the rind). Mix them 
with the apricots, add the juice and pulp of the 
oranges, let this simmer slowly, stirring frequently 
until well blended. Add the sugar which has been 
heated in the oven and boil hard for ten minutes. 
Put into sterilized glasses or jars. 

ORANGE OMELET 

4 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered 2 tablespoonfuls orange 

sugar juice 

2 oranges % teaspoonful baking pow- 
yi teaspoonful salt der 

Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, add 
the salt to yolks and beat well. Beat whites until 
stiff and add yolks, baking powder and orange juice. 
Sprinkle powdered sugar on oranges which have 
been sliced lengthwise. Put butter in hot frying 
pan and pour in omelet mixture. When it has 
thickened well and is puffed up add the thin slices 
of one orange. Fold the omelet in half over the 



62 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

orange. When done place on hot platter with the 
rest of orange slices on top. 

ORANGE SNOW PUDDING 

Yi box gelatin 3 eggs 

Yz cupful cold water 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

2 cupfuls boiling water Yz saltspoonful salt 

I cupful sugar i pint hot milk 

juice I lemon grated rind i orange 

Cover gelatin with the cold water. When soft- 
ened, add the boiling water, one cupful sugar and 
the juice of the lemon, stir until dissolved, strain 
and set aside to cool. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, stir them into the gelatin mixture 
when it begins to thicken and beat to a stiff white 
foam. Turn into a ring mold and put on ice for 
several hours. Make a custard with the well beaten 
yolks of eggs, the three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and salt, add gradually the hot milk and the grated 
rind of the orange. Cook in double boiler until the 
custard coats the spoon, then strain. Fill the gela- 
tin ring with sliced oranges and pour the custard 
over. 

ORANGE WATER ICE 

juice 6 oranges 2 cupfuls powdered sugar 

juice I lemon Yz cupful rich sweet cream 

I quart water 

Add sugar to fruit juice, stir the water and 
cream in slowly until well blended, strain and freeze 
as for ice cream. 



OEANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 63 

HOW TO SERVE AN ORANGE TO AN INVALID 

Soak an orange in hot water for half an hour. 
The skin will loosen and come off like a glove and 
the pulp will be delicious. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Scrub the peel carefully; cut the outer yellow 
rind from the white lining. Cover with water and 
boil until tender; remove, cut into small strips and 
cook in the following syrup : 

I cupful of granulated sugar 
y2 cupful water 

Let boil one minute, add peel and cook until 
syrup threads. Take up with skimmer, roll in gran- 
ulated sugar, dry on wax paper and pack in paper 
lined boxes until needed. 

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE (FROM SKINS) 

Remove the brown spots from the skins, run the 
skins through the food chopper. Measure the 
quantity. Put in a kettle with water enough to a 
little more than cover and add handful of salt. Let 
come slowly to a boil and boil five minutes. Put 
in sieve and allow cold water to run through to 
remove all the bitter water. Return to kettle and 
cover as before with cold water. To three cupfuls 
of chopped skins add half cupful vinegar and five 
cupfuls sugar. Boil slowly several hours or until 



64 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

mixture is very thick. The secret is in slow boiUng. 
Use all the skin, white as well as yellow. This is 
delicious in fruit cake or mince meat. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Wash well two pounds of oranges. Place them 
in granite saucepan, having fruit well covered with 
water. Boil them for three hours, turning the 
oranges often. Let them cool in the water. When 
cool, cut each orange in four parts, remove the cen- 
ter with a spoon and place in a dish until ready to 
measure. Cut the yellow peel with scissors into 
threads. Measure the pulp and shredded rind, add 
an equal amount of sugar and one additional cup- 
ful, then one cupful water; cook all together for 
ten minutes counting from the time it really boils. 
Fill glasses and cover with paraffin. Stir gently all 
the time it is boiling to keep from burning. 

ORANGE FRAPPE 

1 cupful sugar i cupful orange juice 

2 cupfuls water pulp of 4 oranges 

4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes. Add other 
ingredients and freeze to a mush. 

ORANGE EGG CORDIAL 

I egg white 
I teaspoonful sugar 
juice of I orange 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 65 

Beat white until frothy; add orange juice and 
sugar ; continue beating until well blended. Serve at 
once. 

ORANGE PUDDING NO. i 

2 cupfuls scalded milk Yz cupful sugar 

I cupful soft bread crumbs ^ cupful orange juice 

4 eggs grated rind one orange 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice % cupful chopped almonds 

Yz teaspoonful salt 

Pour milk over the bread crumbs. Beat eggs, 
add other ingredients. When blended add bread 
and milk mixture. Steam in individual molds or 
one-half pound baking powder can three-quarters 
of an hour. Remove to serving dish. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

ORANGE ROLY POLY 

2 cupfuls flour Y^ cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls lard 3 oranges cut in slices 

I teaspoonful salt Y^ cupful sugar 

4 teaspoonf uls baking pow- 2 tablespoonfuls shredded 
der orange peel 

Mix flour, salt and baking powder, add lard and 
chop until fine like meal ; add milk. Shape in ob- 
long piece, spread with orange and orange peel and 
sprinkle with sugar. Roll like a jelly roll, pinch 
the edges together. Place on plate in steamer and 
steam one and a half hours. Serve with sauce. 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE NO. 3 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch with one 
cupful of sugar. Add two cupfuls boiling water 



66 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

and cook twenty minutes. Add grated rind and 
juice of one orange and one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls butter. Serve hot. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE 

3 eggs I tablespoonful orange 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered juice 

sugar Yz tablespoonful lemon juice 

rind of y^ an orange ^ teaspoonful salt 

Beat the yolks until thick. Add sugar, fruit juice 
and rind. Carefully fold in beaten whites. Pour 
into buttered baking dish and bake fifteen to twenty 
minutes in moderate oven. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE NO. i 

2 cupfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
^ teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls lard 

3 teaspoonfuls baking i cupful milk 

powder 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add butter 
and lard and chop until thoroughly blended. Add 
milk. When thoroughly mixed, divide in halves; 
put each half into a round buttered cake tin. Wet 
knife and spread evenly over pan. Bake about 
twelve minutes in hot oven, split the cakes, butter 
them and cover with sliced oranges. Sprinkle with 
sugar. 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE NO. 3 

whites 3 eggs juice and rind of 2 oranges 

I cupful powdered sugar juice of i lemon 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 67 

Beat whites until stiff, add sugar gradually and 
continue beating; add rind and fruit juices. 

ORANGE AND COCOANUT 

Arrange layers of sliced oranges, sprinkle well 
with desiccated cocoanut and powdered sugar. 
Serve at once. 

ORANGE PUFFS 

Yz cupful butter i^ cupfuls flour 

1 cupful sugar 3 teaspoon fuls baking 

2 eggs powder 

3^ cupful milk 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and eggs 
well beaten. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and 
salt ; add alternately with milk to first mixture ; turn 
into buttered gem pans, bake about thirty minutes. 
Serve with orange sauce. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

grated rind i orange i tablespoonful orange juice 

y2 teaspoonful lemon juice confectioners' sugar 

Stir the sugar into the rind and juices until thick 
enough to spread. 

ORANGE CREAM (FROZEN) 

2 cupfuls sugar i cupful cream 

1 cupful water yolks 2 eggs 

2 cupfuls orange juice i cupful heavy cream 

% cupful shredded candied 
orange peel 



68 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Boil sugar and water eight minutes, then add 
orange juice. Scald cream, add yolks of eggs and 
cook over hot water until mixture thickens. Cool; 
add to first mixture with heavy cream beaten stiff. 
Freeze; when nearly frozen, add the orange peel. 

ORANGE CUSTARD 

Arrange sHced oranges in glass dish, pour over 
them boiled custard. Serve very cold. 

BOILED CUSTARD 

2 cupfuls scalded milk % cupful sugar 
yolks 3 eggs y% teaspoonful salt 

y2 teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt and beat 
again. Pour the hot milk on the eggs, stirring all 
the time. Cook in double boiler until a coating is 
formed on the spoon, strain immediately, chill and 
flavor. 

ORANGE DELIGHT 

3 large seedless oranges ii cupfuls water 

I large lemon 4 pounds granulated sugar 

Slice oranges and lemon very thin, pour the water 
over the sliced fruit and set away for twenty-four 
hours ; then boil slowly for one hour. After boiling 
add the sugar and set away for twenty-four hours 
longer, then boil one hour and twenty-five minutes. 
Pour into glasses and cover with parafiin. It will 
keep for years and is delicious used as honey. 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 69 



ORANGE CHARLOTTE 

Ys box gelatin 3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

1^ cupful cold water i cupful orange juice and 

y^ cupful boiling water pulp 

whites of 3 eggs whip from 2 cupfuls of 

I cupful sugar cream 

Soak gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling 
water, strain, add sugar, lemon juice, orange juice 
and pulp. Chill in pan of ice water. When quite 
thick, beat with wire spoon until frothy, then add 
whites of eggs beaten stiff and fold in cream. Line 
a mold with sections of oranges, turn in mixture 
and chill. 

ORANGE CAKE FILLING 

y2 cupful sugar % cupful orange juice 

23^ tablespoonfuls flour 5^ tablespoonful lemon juice 

grated rind ^ orange i tgg beaten slightly 

I teaspoonful butter 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cook ten min- 
utes in double boiler, stirring constantly. Cool be- 
fore spreading. 

BAKED ORANGE SOUFFLE PUDDING 

Beat one- fourth of a cupful of butter to a cream; 
add gradually one-fourth cupful of sugar, then 
the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and half a cup- 
ful of flour sifted with one level teaspoonful of 
baking powder; lastly, add the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a shallow pan. 



70 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Mix four level tablespoon fuls of cornstarch with 
one cupful of sugar and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt; pour over this one cupful of orange juice 
and the juice of a lemon scalding hot; let cook over 
the fire until the mixture boils, then over hot water 
ten minutes ; add one egg beaten very light without 
separating, and, when the egg is cooked, pour over 
the cake. Beat the whites of three eggs until dry, 
then beat in gradually four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, fold in three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and spread upon the cake and custard. Brown deli- 
cately in a slow oven. It will take about eight min- 
utes. 

ORANGE AND CUSTARD 

3 cupfuls milk J4 teaspoonful salt 

2 eggs J4 cupful sugar 

J/2 cupful boiled rice orange peel 

Carefully boil, for a minute, a few pieces of 
orange peel with the milk and rice. Beat egg yolks 
with the sugar and salt, remove the orange peel, add 
sugar mixture and stir until thickened. Then re- 
move from the heat and chill. Just before serving 
beat the egg whites stiff with a dash of salt, a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar and a little orange 
juice. Pile on the custard and sprinkle lightly with 
candied orange peel. 

ORANGE FLUFF 

Put in a double boiler one well-beaten egg yolk, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, a quarter of a cupful of 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 71 

orange juice, and cook until the mixture thickens, 
stirring to keep smooth. Strain and beat into the 
whipped white of the egg until the mixture is 
creamy. 

ORANGEADE 

Make a syrup, boiling one cupful of sugar and 
two cupfuls of water twelve minutes, add one-half 
cupful of orange juice. Cool, and dilute with ice 
water to suit the taste or pour over crushed ice. 

ORANGE BREAD PUDDING 

(Single Portion) 

Soak half a cupful of stale bread crumbs in a 
quarter of a cupful of milk until soft, beating lightly 
with fork; add the grated rind and juice of an 
orange and sweeten to taste. Whip the white of an 
egg very light and add it to this mixture ; pour into 
a custard cup, set in a pan of water, and bake until 
firm. 

DELICIOUS ORANGE PUDDING 

Cover two small oranges, peeled and cut in bits, 
with three-quarters cupful sugar. Let stand for at 
least one hour. Prepare a very thick cream by 
scalding in a double boiler one and one-half cup- 
fuls milk, three-eighths cupful sugar and pinch of 
salt, thickening with three heaping teaspoonfuls 
flour mixed smoothly with the yolk of one egg and 
^sufficient cold milk or water to moisten. Cook for 
five minutes or longer. When cream is cold com- 
bine the two mixtures and cover the top with a me- 



72 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

ringue made as follows: White of one egg, one 
tablespoonful of cold water, one-third teaspoonful 
of baking powder, a few grains of salt, beaten to a 
stiff froth with silver fork. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and beat again until it will stand alone. 
Brown in a slow oven. Serve cold. 

STEAMED ORANGE PUDDING 

Pour a cupful and a half of scalded single cream, 
or rich milk, over one cupful of grated bread 
crumbs. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter, and let 
stand fifteen minutes. Beat four eggs with one- 
fourth of a cupful of sugar. Add the grated rind 
and juice of one orange and half a lemon and stir 
into the bread mixture. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped almonds and turn into buttered timbale 
molds, decorated with candied orange peel. Steam 
one hour. Serve hot with strawberries cut in 
halves, sugared generously, and chilled; or serve 
the pudding with a hard sauce. 

ORANGE CUSTARD PIE 

Into one cupful of granulated sugar stir two ta- 
blespoonfuls of pastry flour and a pinch of salt. 
Mix well, add grated rind and juice of one orange 
and the juice of one lemon with the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs. Then add one cupful of milk 
and lastly fold in the beaten w^hites of two eggs. 
Use one crust and bake in rather a slow oven about 
thirty-five minutes. 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 73 



ORANGE SQUARES 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin Yz cupful boiling water 

Yi cupful of cold water Yz cupful candied orange or 

2 cupfuls granulated sugar lemon peel 

Soak the gelatin ten minutes. Put sugar and 
boiling water in saucepan and when sugar is dis- 
solved, add the gelatin. Boil gently until it threads. 
Then remove from the fire and add the peel cut 
in small pieces. Turn into pan rinsed in cold w^ater. 
Let stand five or six hours to harden. Cut in squares 
and roll in granulated sugar and harden. 

ORANGE NUT SALAD 

1 banana lettuce 

2 oranges >2 cupful nut meats 

French dressing 

Remove skin from banana, cut in quarters length- 
wise and again crosswise, roll in nut meats finely 
chopped. Peel oranges, cut in slices crosswise, in- 
sert a cube of banana in center of each slice. Ar- 
range on a bed of lettuce, sprinkle over remainder 
of pecans and French dressing. This will make 
eight portions. 

GRAPEFRUIT PIE 

4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch i grapefruit 

1 teaspoonful melted butter i cupful hot water 

2 eggs I orange 

I cupful sugar 



74 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Blend the cornstarch with just enough cold water 
to make a paste, stir into this the melted butter, the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, juice and grated rind of a 
large orange, the same of a medium sized grape- 
fruit, the hot water and sugar. Put into a double 
boiler, cook until thick, stirring constantly, turn into 
a baked crust, cover with a meringue and brown 
lightly. Serve cold. 

ORANGE PUDDING NO. 2 

Peel and slice a half dozen oranges, over which 
sift one cupful of sugar. Boil one pint of milk and 
thicken with one tablespoonful of dissolved corn- 
starch. Add the beaten yolks of three eggs just 
before removing from the stove. Pour this mix- 
ture over the oranges. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with a little sugar, for a meringue, and brown deli- 
cately. 

GRAPEFRUIT AND RICE 

One cupful of freshly boiled rice, one tablespoon- 
ful of granulated gelatin, two tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar, and one pint of whipping cream. 
Soak the gelatin in four tablespoonfuls of cold 
water for fifteen minutes, set over hot water until 
gelatin is thoroughly dissolved. Add sugar and 
rice and when perfectly cold carefully mix in the 
cream, whipped stiff. Fill a mold — a border mold 
makes an attractive shape — and stand aside to set. 
When ready to serve unmold rice, arrange full sec- 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 75 

tion of grapefruit around the mold and pour sauce 
in center. 

Sauce: Rub three lumps of loaf sugar on the 
outside of a well-washed orange until as much as 
possible of the oil in orange peel is absorbed. Cook 
together one cupful of sugar, including the three 
lumps, and one-half cupful of water until the syrup 
spins a heavy thread ; it will take about ten minutes. 
Take from the fire ; when cool add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of some other fruit juice and two table- 
spoonfuls of finely cut candied orange peel. 

ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING 

One-half cupful butter, one cupful sugar, one- 
half cupful milk, two and one-quarter cupfuls flour, 
three and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 
the whites of four eggs. Combine the above in- 
gredients in the order given and steam together for 
thirty minutes. When ready to serve, cut in slices 
and serve with a thick layer of whipped cream on 
which a spoonful of orange marmalade has been 
placed. 

ORANGE AND HONEY MARMALADE 

Peel the required amount of oranges and boil the 
peel in water until tender. Then cut into strips and 
remove the seeds from the juice and pulp of the 
oranges. To two cupfuls of the juice and pulp al- 
low one cupful of strained honey and half a cupful 
of orange peel. 



76 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Place it with the honey in a preserving pan and 
boil all together for about half an hour, or until 
the marmalade has reached the proper consistency. 
Put it into glasses and when cold cover with melted 
wax. 

FROZEN ORANGE PUDDING 

Prepare a rich boiled custard by slowly heating 
a pint of milk in the double boiler, adding two well- 
beaten eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar; stir 
until it thickens; remove from the fire and flavor 
with the juice of one orange and the grated yellow 
rind. While this is cooling, peel two oranges, and, 
removing pits and every particle of white skin, flake 
the pulp into small bits with a silver fork; sprinkle 
liberally with powdered sugar. To the cold custard 
add a half pint of sweetened whipped cream and 
turn at once into the freezer, stirring in when half 
frozen the prepared orange pulp and a small cup- 
ful of grated macaroon crumbs; continue the freez- 
ing until very stiff and then pack in a melon mold. 
Unmold on a large platter, decorating with stars 
of whipped cream pressed through a pastry tube 
and minced candied orange peel. 

ORANGE BAVARIAN QREAM 

Soak one-half box of gelatin in one-half cupful 
of cold water, then dissolve in one-half cupful of 
boiling water, add one-half cupful of sugar. When 
cool add two cupfuls of orange juice and pulp. 
When beginning to jelly stir in one pint of stiffly 



OEANGES AND GRAPEFEUIT 77 

whipped cream. Beat until stiff enough to mold. 
Pour Into a wet mold and serve with cream. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE NO. 2 

Remove the skin and bitter white covering of 
three oranges; slice lengthwise, rejecting the seeds 
and tough center. Add the juice of half a lemon 
and powdered sugar to sweeten, then stand aside 
until needed. About half an hour before serving 
mix and sift together two cupfuls of sifted flour, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one tablespoonful 
of baking powder. With the tips of the fingers 
work in a fourth of a cup of butter, then mix to a 
soft dough with two-thirds of a cupful of milk. 
Spread the mixture evenly over a well-buttered lay- 
er cake pan, brush the top with melted butter, sprin- 
kle with a tablespoonful of sugar and bake at once 
in a quick oven. Whip one cupful of rich cream 
until stiff, add a fourth of a cupful of sugar and 
flavor with vanilla. When the shortcake is done 
turn it into a pudding dish, cover with the oranges 
and heap the whipped cream roughly over all. 
Serve at once. 

ORANGE SAUCE FOR CROQUETTES 

Cut the peel of one orange in thin slices, boil 
until tender. To two tablespoonfuls of hot butter 
add three tablespoonfuls of flour and cook until 
smooth; add gradually three-quarters of a cupful 
of stock, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, dash of 



78 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

pepper, and one-half cupful of currant jelly. Cook 
thoroughly, then add orange juice and peel. 

ORANGE AND DATE SALAD 

One pound of dates and four large oranges. 
Separate dates, cover with boiling water, cook for 
three minutes. Drain, and when dried in the oven, 
cool. Stone and cut in halves lengthwise. Halve 
the oranges and cut out the sections of pulp. Ar- 
range crisp lettuce leaves on a platter, pile the 
oranges in the center and surround with dates. 
Serve with French dressing. 

ORANGE SPONGE 

One cupful of sugar, juice six or eight oranges, 
juice one-half lemon, one ounce gelatin, one-half 
cupful cold water, one-half cupful boiling water, 
whites four eggs, salt. Soak gelatin in cold water, 
then dissolve in hot water, strain into sugar, cool 
to smooth syrupy consistency. Beat whites stiff, 
then beat into fruit mixture. Blend and mold. 

ORANGE JELLY WITH BANANA CREAM 

Cover one ounce of gelatin with one-half cupful 
of cold water and add the grated rind of a deep- 
colored orange. When soft, stir in one cupful of 
boiling water and one cupful of sugar, then stir in 
two cupfuls of orange juice, strain through a dou- 
ble thickness of cheesecloth and turn into a border 
mold. Press two bananas through a sieve, add one 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 79 

tablespoonful of lemon juice, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, beat with a silver fork until 
very light and fold in one gill of cream whipped 
until stiff. Turn the jelly from the mold and fill 
the center with the banana cream. 

GRAPEFRUIT GELATIN 

Put two heaping tablespoonfuls of powdered gel- 
atin into a saucepan, add one and a half cupfuls of 
water, half a cupful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice, and three cupfuls of grapefruit juice 
and pulp. Stir over the fire until they almost boil, 
then strain. Divide into small wet molds. Turn 
out when set. Serve with whipped and sweetened 
cream. 

ORANGE AND GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 

One large grapefruit, two large navel oranges, 
one lemon, five pounds sugar, eighteen cupfuls cold 
water. Wash the fruit, cut it into very thin slices 
and cut the slices into narrow strips. Use every 
part of the fruit but the cores and seeds. Cover 
the fruit with the w^ater and let stand tvv^enty-four 
hours. Boil it rapidly, uncovered, for ten minutes 
and let it stand another twenty-four hours. Bring 
it to boiling point, add the sugar and boil it two 
hours, or until the jelly point is reached. The cook- 
ing should be done in a broad, shallow, uncovered 
pan. 



80 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

ORANGES WITH CRANBERRY SAUCE 

I cupful of cranberries 2 cupfuls of water 

I cupful of sugar 2 oranges 

Wash and pick over the cranberries; put on to 
boil with two cupfuls of water ; put over a very hot 
fire, so they will boil at once. Cover for a few min- 
utes, remove the cover, and mash; add the sugar, 
and boil for three minutes. Mash through a colan- 
der first, and then through a fine strainer ; set aside 
to get very cold. Pare the oranges as you would 
apples, remove all of the white. Chip the oranges 
very fine; put into sherbet glasses, and pour over 
them the cranberry juice. 



IX. LEMONS 

LEMON PIE FILLING NO. l 

Let a slice of bread (the crust removed and the 
bread crumbled fine) soak in a cupful of water; 
beat until smooth, then add a cupful of sugar, the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon, the yolks of two 
eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
When baked cover with a meringue made with the 
whites of two eggs and five tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar and half a teaspoon ful of lemon ex- 
tract. 

LEMON PIE FILLING NO. 2 

One lemon, one half cupful (small) of butter, 
two cupfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of sweet 
milk, three eggs. Grate lemon and rub into the 
sugar and butter, then add yolks of eggs, then the 
milk, then whites of eggs beaten stiff; last of all, 
the juice of lemon. Mix in order given. 

LEMON PIE FILLING NO. 3 

Two lemons, grated rind of one, juice of both, 
two cupfuls of sugar, two eggs, two cupfuls of hot 
water, six rolled soda crackers. Bake with a top 
crust. 

81 



82 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKEKY 

LEMON CHEESE PIE 

Four eggs, one pound cottage cheese, one lemon, 
one and one-half cupfuls sugar. Beat the whites 
and yolks of the eggs separately. To the beaten 
yolks add the sugar, beating thoroughly, "then add 
the grated rind and the juice of the lemon. Pass 
the cheese through a colander and then add it, beat- 
ing again thoroughly. Lastly, stir in the beaten 
whites. Line a pie tin with a raw pie crust, pour 
in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PUDDING 

Two cupfuls milk, three-quarters cupful sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls cornstarch, two tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice, one teaspoon ful grated lemon rind, 
pinch salt, three crackers or four tablespoonfuls 
cake crumbs. Put milk on in top of double boiler; 
add cornstarch, which has been wet with a little 
cold water, the sugar, salt and juice and grated 
rind of lemon. Stir constantly until it thickens; 
set aside to cool. Put cracker or cake crumbs in 
bottom of a glass bowl and pour over them the 
cooled mixture. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES 

Warm four ounces of butter, grate the peel of 
two lemons; add four ounces of powdered sugar 
and a few almonds. Mix all together, adding the 
juice of one of the lemons; pour into patty pans 



LEMONS 83 

lined with a good puff paste. Bake fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes. 

LEMON BUTTER 

I cupful of water 3 tablespoonfuls of lemon 
Yi cupful of sugar juice 

I tablespoonful of flour i teaspoonful of grated 
I ^gg lemon rind 

Put the water on to boil; add the flour, which 
has been mixed with a little cold water until smooth. 
Boil for ten minutes ; then add the ^gg, which has 
been beaten with the sugar and salt. Bring to a 
boil; remove from the fire; add the juice and rind 
of lemon and beat for two minutes. When cold 
fill into tart shells or spread on toasted bread. 

SPICED LEMON SAUCE 

I cupful boiling water i^ tablespoonfuls lemon 

Yz cupful sugar juice 

i^ tablespoonfuls flour 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Yt teaspoonful grated nut- 
meg 

Mix sugar and flour until well blended, add water 
gradually, stirring continuously; cook five minutes, 
remove from fire, add butter, lemon juice, and 
spice, and beat until smooth. Serve with cottage 
pudding. 

LEMON JELLY 

Two tablespoonfuls gelatin, one-half cupful cold 
water, two and one-half cupfuls boiling water, one 
cupful sugar, one-half cupful lemon juice. Soak 



84 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

gelatin ten minutes in the cold water, then dis- 
solve in boiling water, strain and add the sugar 
and lemon juice. 

LEMON PEARS 

Use seven pounds of fruit. Pare, core and chop 
the pears fine, add six pounds of sugar and set on 
stove for sugar to melt. Add juice and grated rind 
of four lemons. Put the grated rind and two 
ounces of ginger root, cut up fine, in a small bag 
and let all cook slowly three hours, or until thick 
like marmalade. Stir often to prevent sticking to 
kettle. Put up in jelly tumblers when done. 

LEMON CREAM 

Gelatin, six cupfuls boiling water, two-thirds 
cupful sugar, five tablespoon fuls condensed milk, 
one tgg, one-half cupful lemon juice (two medium 
sized lemons.) Use amount of gelatin ordinarily 
required to make two quarts of jelly and soften it 
in a little cold water. Stir it into the boihng water, 
remove from stove and add sugar, condensed milk 
and tgg (which has been thoroughly beaten) and 
stir till well blended. Return to stove and let come 
to boil (just enough to scald the egg), stirring to 
prevent scorching. Remove from stove, add lemon 
juice, pour into mold and set away to harden. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



LEMONS 85 

LEMON SAGO 

Half cupful of sago, the juice of two lemons and 
rind of one, one ounce of maple syrup, about one- 
half cupful sugar. Soak sago and cook in double 
boiler until soft, add juice of lemon and grated 
rind, then add the syrup and cook a few minutes. 
Set in a mold. Serve with boiled custard. 

LEMON ICE 

One quart of water, four lemons, two and one- 
half cupfuls of sugar, one orange. Boil the sugar 
and water for ten minutes; strain it and add the 
juice of the lemons and orange ; cool and freeze. 

BUTTERMILK LEMON PIE 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, 
one cupful buttermilk, one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls butter, one tablespoonful cornstarch and the 
juice and grated rind of two lemons. Add a slight 
pinch of salt to the yolks and beat until very stiff, 
add the buttermilk, sugar, butter, lemons and the 
cornstarch. The cornstarch should be mixed with 
a small quantity of the buttermilk to keep it from 
lumping. Cook this filling until quite thick, fill the 
pie crust, beat a meringue from the whites of eggs, 
spread over top and place in oven until delicately 
browned. 



86 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

LEMON RAISIN PIE 

One large cupful seeded and chopped raisins. 
Turn two cupfuls of hot water on the raisins and 
cook ten minutes. Beat yolks of two eggs, one cup- 
ful sugar, one rounding tablespoonful of flour and 
juice and grated rind of one large lemon, together. 
Mix this with the raisins when you take them from 
the fire. Bake with two crusts. Let the filling cool 
before filling the pie. Dates can be used instead of 
raisins. 

LEMON CREAM SAUCE 

One egg yolk, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
of butter, one-third cupful of thick sweet cream, 
one-half cupful of water, a pinch of salt. Beat the 
yolk, add the sugar, lemon juice, salt, water and 
butter. Cook in a double boiler until very thick 
and chill. Then add the cream, mix well, and use 
at once. 

LEMON COCOANUT CREAM FILLING 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cupful 
powdered sugar, yolks of two eggs, one cupful 
shredded cocoanut. Mix lemon juice and rind with 
sugar and yolks of eggs slightly beaten; cook ten 
minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly; then 
add the shredded cocoanut. Cool and use as a fill- 
ing between layers of plain cake. 



LEMONS 87 

STEAMED LEMON PUDDING 

Cook three tablespoon fuls of lemon juice, grated 
rind of one lemon and a quarter cupful of butter, 
two minutes. Add one cupful sugar and three eggs, 
slightly beaten. Cook until mixture thickens. Cool. 
Spread this mixture on slices of bread and butter 
and arrange in baking dish. When dish is full pour 
over all one cupful of milk to which a pinch of salt 
and three tablespoon fuls of sugar have been added. 
Cover and set in a pan of hot water and bake one 
hour. 

LEMONADE 

Boil two cupfuls of sugar and four cupfuls of 
water until a rich syrup is formed. Add one cupful 
lemon juice. Dilute with ice water. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

Pick over and soak four tablespoonfuls of Irish 
moss in cold water to cover for half an hour ; drain, 
cover with two cupfuls of cold water and cook ten 
minutes, strain, add three tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice and sugar syrup to taste. 



X. PINEAPPLE 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

I can sliced pineapple ^ teaspoonful vanilla 

I cupful heavy cream ^ cupful very finely 

J4 cupful powdered sugar chopped walnuts 

Drain the syrup from the pineapple. Whip the 
cream, add powdered sugar, vanilla and chopped 
nut meats. Spread this cream between the slices of 
pineapple. Garnish the top with whipped cream 
and nut meats. 

PINEAPPLE WHIP 

% box gelatin ^ cupful sugar 

I can grated pineapple i pint cream 

Soak the gelatin in as little cold water as pos- 
sible. Mix pineapple and sugar together and bring 
to a boil. Add gelatin and let stand (about three 
hours) until it begins to get stiff. Then beat in the 
whipped cream. Serve, very cold, in tall glasses 
with a maraschino cherry on top of each. This 
recipe will serve six persons. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Arrange slices of Hawaiian pineapple on a salad 
plate and over them grate a little nutmeg. In the 

88 



PINEAPPLE 89 

center of each slice make a cup of tiny lettuce leaves 
and in this lay a smaller piece of pineapple, on top 
of which place a pimola or ball of cream cheese. 
Pour French dressing over all. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

I cupful pearl tapioca juice i lemon 

Yi cupful cold water i^ cupfuls sugar 

I can pineapple 3 ^gg whites 

Soak the tapioca over night in plenty of water. 
Drain and add cold water, the juice from the can 
of pineapple and from the lemon. Then cook in a 
double boiler until clear. Add the sugar to this, 
then the pineapple, chopped fine, and lastly, pour 
over the egg-whites, beaten stiff. Chill and serve 
with cream or custard. This can be made from 
fresh pineapple, if stewed and not too sweet. It 
will serve twelve people and will keep two or three 
days. 

PINEAPPLE SHORTCAKE 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of powdered 
sugar, two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of milk, 
whites of four eggs, a little salt. Cream butter and 
sugar, add milk and beat hard before putting in 
the whites of the eggs. Sift two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar and one of soda in the flour, beating 
lightly. 

Filling and Icing: Boil one cupful of granulated 
sugar and one- fourth cupful of pineapple juice care- 
fully strained, for six minutes, after adding one 



90 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

teaspoonful of lemon juice. Beat the white of an 
egg to a stiff froth, add the boiled syrup gradually 
to it, whipping the mixture as the syrup is added 
with the egg whip. Beat six minutes longer and 
ice the cake thickly. For filling add enough finely 
chopped pineapple to the icing to make it moist and 
thick. 

PINEAPPLE FLUFF 

Turn one can of grated pineapple over one-half 
pound of marshmallows and let stand over night, 
then add one pint of whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE AND RHUBARB MARMALADE 

Three cupfuls rhubarb peeled and cut in small 
pieces, six slices canned pineapple cut in small 
pieces, four cupfuls granulated sugar, the juice of 
one orange and one lemon. Add the peel cut fine. 
Cook slowly, stirring carefully about one-half hour. 
Add one-fourth pound blanched almonds chopped 
fine about five minutes before it is done. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of five eggs and add to them one- 
half cupful of sugar and the contents of a can of 
grated pineapple. Wet small timbale cups with cold 
water and fill with the pineapple mixture. Set in a 
pan of hot water, cover, put in the oven and bake 
steadily, but not too fast, until the custard is set, 
being careful that it cooks only to firmness and 
not long enough for the custard to break. Set aside 



PINEAPPLE 91 

until cold, turn out on a flat dish and surround 
with whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD PIE 

Line a deep pie plate with paste. For filling, mix 
three eggs, one-half cupful sugar, one-eighth tea- 
spoonful salt, a little nutmeg, four tablespoonfuls 
of grated pineapple and two cupfuls milk. Bake 
in slow oven until firm. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 

One cupful chopped pineapple, two-thirds cup- 
ful sugar and one cupful water. Cook these ten 
minutes and strain. Into this hot juice dissolve 
one envelope gelatin. When cool beat into it one 
cupful heavy cream well whipped. If you use the 
fresh pineapple allow one cupful sugar. Put in a 
mold and set away in a cool place. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE 

Peel and remove eyes from pineapple. Cut into 
small pieces. To one quart of pineapple allow one 
pint of water and one-half pound of sugar. Boil 
sugar and water for fifteen minutes, then cook 
pineapple in syrup for twenty minutes. Fill jars 
and seal. 

PINEAPPLE AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

Slice thin six sweet oranges and four limes. Cut 
fine, or shred with silver fork, a medium-sized pine- 



92 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

apple (about three pounds) from which rind has 
been cut. Add to other fruits and pineapple rind. 
For each pound of fruit allow one quart of water. 
Cook one hour. Then let stand twenty- four hours. 
Cook again until rind is tender. Let cool, weigh, 
add equal weight of sugar and cook until mixture 
jellies. Turn into glasses and seal. 



PINEAPPLE, STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY 
CONSERVE 

One quart pitted cherries, one quart hulled straw- 
berries, one large shredded pineapple, three pounds 
of sugar and one-half pound chopped English wal- 
nut meats. Put fruit in saucepan and bring slowly 
to a boil. Add sugar and nuts and boil mixture 
about five minutes. Skim out fruit and cook syrup 
until it is thoroughly heated. Fill glasses or small 
jars and seal. 



FROZEN PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler, pour 
it over the beaten yolks of six eggs, add one cupful 
of sugar, return to the double boiler and cook until 
the custard coats the spoon. Chill, add one pint of 
grated pineapple and the juice of a quarter of a 
lemon; turn into the freezer; pack in ice and salt 
and freeze in the usual manner. 



PINEAPPLE 93 

PINEAPPLE TARTS 

Beat the yolks of two eggs and add one-half cup- 
ful of sugar, the juice and grated rind of half a 
lemon, a dash of salt and one cupful of grated pine- 
apple. Turn into patty pans lined with paste and 
bake in a moderate oven. Cool, cover with the 
whites of the eggs, beaten until stiff and sweetened 
with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 
brown delicately. Serve cold. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

Make a syrup by boiling one and one-quarter cup- 
fuls of sugar to a pint of water for ten minutes. 
Add contents of one can of grated pineapples. When 
cool, add juice of four lemons and one cupful of 
strawberry juice. Strain, add five or six cupfuls of 
ice-water, according to taste, and garnish with 
whole strawberries, sprigs of mint and diced fresh 
or canned pineapple, as desired. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE 

Four tablespoonfuls of crushed pineapple, one 
cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful of butter, four 
eggs, two ounces of flour and two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, 
and cook for two minutes, add the milk, and stir 
until the flour is thoroughly cooked. Remove from 



94 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

the fire, add sugar and the pineapple, stir and allow 
to cool a little. Stir in the yolks of the eggs, one 
at a time. Add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Pour into a mold that has been dec- 
orated with pieces of pineapple, cover with a but- 
tered paper and steam gently for fifty minutes. 
Remove the paper, turn out onto a hot dish and 
garnish with some pieces of pineapple. Serve with 
some of the juice. 

PINEAPPLE PARFAIT 

Boil one cupful of sugar and half a cupful of 
grated pineapple, pulp and juice, or juice alone, 
until the syrup threads from the tip of a spoon. 
Pour, in a fine stream, onto the white of one egg, 
beaten until foamy, and, when all is added, beat 
occasionally until cold, then fold into one cupful of 
double cream, beaten solid. 

BAKED PINEAPPLE 

8 slices pineapple 2 teaspoon fuls butter 

6 graham crackers pineapple juice 

Butter a baking dish and cover the bottom with 
graham crackers, finely crumbed. Then put in a 
layer of sliced canned pineapple, keeping the slices 
whole. Dot with butter and add another layer of 
crumbs, continuing in this way until all is used. 
Pour over the pineapple juice and bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Either canned pineapple or fresh 



PINEAPPLE 95 

cooked pineapple and juice may be used in this 
recipe. 

PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE 

Take two and one-half teaspoonfuls of granu- 
lated gelatin, one-third cupful of cold water, one- 
third cupful of boiling water, one cupful of sugar, 
the strained juice of four lemons, one can of sliced 
pineapple and juice, two cupfuls of whipped cream 
and the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Mix the 
gelatin with the cold water and leave for ten min- 
utes, then add the boiling water and dissolve over 
the fire. Take from the fire and add the lemon 
juice, chopped pineapple and juice. Chill and beat 
until foamy, then add the whites of eggs and cream. 
Turn into a wet mold and set in a cool place over 
night. Serve with milk or cream. 

FRUIT SALAD 

6 slices fresh or canned 6 strawberries 

pineapple honey salad dressing or 

I large orange French fruit salad 

I banana dressing 

sprigs of fresh mint 

Wash and crisp the mint, arrange, stem-ends to- 
ward the center, on individual salad plates. Place 
a slice of pineapple on each bed of mint, on this put 
a slice of orange, then a layer of banana sliced into 
disks. Pour over it the salad dressing, and top 
with a strawberry. If fresh pineapple is used, it 
should be sprinkled with sugar and allowed to stand 
in a cold place for at least an hour. 



96 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

PINEAPPLE SNOW 

One can of chopped pineapple, one-half box of 
gelatin dissolved in one pint of cold water; add 
juice of pineapple and let come to boil. Two cup- 
fuls of sugar and juice of two lemons beaten until 
light. Pour hot gelatin over mixture and stir well, 
then add pineapple. Put in cold place and let stand 
until it thickens a little, then add whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff. Beat ten minutes, mold and 
serve with whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

To a quart of pineapple jelly, which has stiffened 
to a syrupy consistency, add the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs. Beat together until the surface will 
hold a drop of the mixture, turn into eggshells from 
which one end has been cut, having first moistened 
them with ice cold water. When the sponge is firm, 
remove the shells and serve in a bed of whipped 
cream with a garnish of candied cherries. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

Scald one pint of milk in a double boiler; add 
one tablespoonful of flour smoothly blended with a 
little cold milk and stir until slightly thickened; 
then cover and cook for fifteen minutes. Beat well 
together three eggs and one cupful of sugar. Add 
to the scalded milk, stir until the sugar is dissolved 
and the custard thickened, add a pinch of salt, take 



PINEAPPLE 97 

from the fire, strain and cool. Peel, eye and finely 
chop a good-sized pineapple. Add this to the cus- 
tard with one pint of rich cream, turn into the 
packed freezer and freeze, repack and set aside for 
at least two hours to ripen. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

One quart of sugar and one quart of water made 
into a syrup and set aside to cool. Add to this cold 
syrup the juice of four lemons and one can of grated 
pineapple; strain and put in the freezer. Beat the 
whites of two eggs, add two spoonfuls of white 
sugar, beat into a meringue, and add just before 
freezing. This makes one gallon. 

PINEAPPLE COCKTAIL 

I pineapple Yz cupful orange juice 

I cupful sugar J^ cupful grapefruit juice 

J^ cupful water pink color paste 

Cut fresh pineapple in one-half inch slices, then 
in cylinders, using an apple-corer. Put in cocktail 
glasses and cover with syrup. For syrup boil sugar 
and water three minutes, cool, add orange and 
grapefruit juice, and color a delicate pink with a 
small amount of color paste. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS NO. i 

Pare and grate a pineapple and drain off the 
juice. Mix the juice with the beaten yolk of an 
^gg, a pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter, two cupfuls of sifted flour and enough water 



98 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

to make a batter that will drop from the spoon, add 
the grated pineapple and the stiffly beaten white of 
an egg. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, fry brown, 
drain, sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve. 
Canned pineapple can be used with both of these 
recipes. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS NO. 2 

Pare and slice a pineapple or use the canned. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar, drain, dip in cake 
crumbs, then in fritter batter, fry brown, drain and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Three cupfuls granulated sugar, two cupfuls 
water. Stir until sugar is dissolved, then boil five 
minutes. Add the juice of one good-sized lemon 
and one large pineapple. Put it through the food 
chopper first, then press the juice out in vegetable 
press. In this way every bit of juice is extracted. 
The juice from one can of pineapple might be used 
as well. Keep the mixture all together in a large 
bowl standing in a vessel of cold water until cool, 
then pour into freezer. When partly frozen add 
the stiffly beaten white of one egg and continue 
freezing. Let stand an hour or so to ripen. 

PINEAPPLE MOLD 

6 slices of pineapple y^ pint of whipping cream 

1 gill of water i tablespoonful of sugar 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of some custard sauce 

powdered gelatin. 



PINEAPPLE 99 

Chop the pineapple fine. Beat tip the cream and 
mix it with the pineapple, adding sugar. Dissolve 
the gelatin in the water over the fire, and strain 
into the other ingredients. Mix well and pour into 
a wet mold. When firm, turn out and serve with 
custard sauce. 

CANNING PINEAPPLES 

The complete sterilization of scalding in boiling 
water of jars, rubbers, covers and all utensils used 
in the process of canning pineapple is necessary to 
insure preservation of the fruit. Pare pineapple 
with a silver knife, removing the eyes, and grate or 
shred with a silver fork. Weigh the fruit, and to 
every pound allow three- fourths of a pound of sug- 
ar. Mix fruit and sugar and bring quickly to the 
boiling point in a porcelain-lined preserving kettle. 
Cook slowly fifteen minutes, can and seal. If pine- 
apple is sliced for canning, cook in boiling water 
until tender, then make a syrup of the water and 
sugar. Boil the fruit a second time and seal in the 
usual way. 

PINEAPPLE TOAST 

One can of sliced pineapple, one large sponge 
cake, three heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, a few 
drops of red coloring, and some glace cherries. Cut 
the sponge cake into slices a quarter of an inch in 
thickness. Melt the butter in a small frying pan, 
and when hot, put in the slices of cake and brown 
them lightly on both sides. Drain on sugared paper 



100 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

and allow them to cool. Then arrange the slices 
neatly on a dish, with the pineapple cut in pieces 
on the top. Take the syrup from the can, add the 
red coloring, and pour this over all. Decorate with 
glace cherries. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY WITH SOFT CUSTARD 

Beat yolks of three eggs, three tablespoon fuls 
sugar, salt. Pour over this one pint hot milk. Cook 
slowly until it thickens. Soak three-quarters box 
gelatin in one-half cupful cold water. Dissolve it 
in one and one-half cupfuls boiling water, add one 
cupful sugar and one-half cupful lemon juice. When 
partly hardened stir in one-half can grated pine- 
apple or one small can and whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff. 

PINEAPPLE DELIGHT 

One can pineapple chopped or grated, tablespoon- 
ful granulated gelatin, one-half pound marshmal- 
lows, one-quarter pound walnut meats, two tgg 
whites, sugar to taste. Drain juice from pineapple, 
add water to make a pint of liquid ; sweeten. Dis- 
solve gelatin in very little water, add to above and 
bring to boiling point. Cut marshmallows into 
small pieces with scissors and add to hot liquid. 
When gelatin commences to congeal, add pine- 
apple, broken nut meat and whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. When cold, serve with whipped cream and 
garnish with maraschino cherries. 



PINEAPPLE 101 

PINEAPPLE SORBET 

4 oranges i quart of milk 

2 lemons i pint cream 

2>4 cupfuls sugar Yz cupful powdered sugar 

whites of 2 eggs i can shredded pineapple 

Squeeze the juice of lemons and oranges into a 
bowl, add the granulated sugar, then add the shred- 
ded pineapple. Place this mixture in your freezer 
and turn until it begins to freeze. Remove top from 
freezer and add the beaten whites of eggs, to which 
has been added the powdered sugar. Lastly add 
the cream and milk, and freeze and pack until ready 
to serve. 

PINEAPPLE AND COCOANUT DESSERT 

Turn the contents of a can of pineapple chunks 
in the serving dish, cut the pieces much smaller and 
sprinkle over them four tablespoonfuls of shredded 
cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, adding about a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Cover closely and let stand in 
a cool place till needed. Over night will improve 
the taste and soften the cocoanut. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE CREAM PIE 

I can of Hawaiian crushed ^ cupful of butter 

pineapple 2 eggs 

2^ cupfuls of flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

13^ cupfuls of sugar powder 

Drain the pineapple, beat the butter to a cream, 
add yolks of eggs, beat and gradually add the sug- 



102 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

ar. When very light add the pineapple juice. Mix 
the baking powder and flour and sift twice. Add 
them to the first mixture, beat the whites, stir them 
in carefully last and bake the mixture in three 
layers. 

To make the filling, put a pint of milk in a double 
boiler, add a level tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
moisten in one-fourth cupful of cold milk, cook five 
minutes, add the yolks of two eggs beaten with 
one-fourth cupful of sugar. Cook a moment, take 
from the fire, beat it a minute with an egg beater, 
beat the whites of the eggs stifif, add two table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar, beat until dry. On one 
layer (baked) heap the meringue, and on it dust 
heavily powdered sugar. Return to the oven and 
brown. Put one of the remaining layers on a plat- 
ter; cover thickly with the pineapple filling; add the 
other layer, then the rest of the filling, and top with 
the layer which has the meringue on it. Pour the 
cream in the bottom of the dish and serve. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

I can sliced pineapple ^ cupful sugar 

3 eggs rich pastry 

Drain ofiF the pineapple juice, add the sugar, and 
bring to boiling point. Beat the eggs well and pour 
the pineapple juice over them. Return to double 
boiler and cook till thick like a custard, stirring con- 
stantly. In the meantime, bake the pastry over a 
deep inverted pie-plate, pricking it, especially about 



PINEAPPLE 103 

the edge, so that it will retain the shape of the tin. 
Just before serving time spread the custard on the 
shell, lay on this the sliced pineapple which should 
be cut up, and heap with cream. 

FRUIT JELLY 

One package gelatin, two large cupfuls of sugar, 
one cupful of shredded pineapple, two lemons, four 
oranges cut fine, half pound chopped walnuts, half 
cupful preserved ginger, half pound figs cut fine. 
Cover contents of one package of gelatin with one 
cupful of cold water, let stand till soft; add one 
quart of boiling water and the sugar, strain and 
let stand until it begins to thicken. Stir in the pine- 
apple, juice of the lemons, oranges, figs, walnuts 
and ginger. 



XL BANANAS 



BANANA CREAM 



Rub five large bananas smooth with five table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar, beat one-half pint of 
cream to a stiff froth, add the fruit and a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Mix and add half an 
ounce of gelatin previously dissolved in enough 
rich milk to cover it, whisk all together gently and 
mold. Use with cream and sugar. 

BAKED BANANAS 

5 bananas i>^ tablespoonfuls lemon 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar juice 

Remove bananas from skins, sprinkle with lemon 
juice and sugar and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, until the bananas are golden brown. 

BANANA ICE 

3 cupfuls sugar juice of 3 lemons 
3 cupfuls water juice of 3 oranges 

3 large bananas 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and water five 
minutes; when cold add to it the fruit juices and the 
bananas mashed to a pulp. Freeze. Serve in sher- 
bet glasses ornamented with slices of bananas. 

104 



BANANAS 105 



BANANA FRITTERS 



I cupful flour I egg white 

I tgg yolk 6 large bananas 

I teaspoonful salt ^ fat for frying 

I teaspoonful salad oil or sugar 
butter 

Mix flour with egg yolk, salt, and oil or butter. 
Add sufficient cold water to make a thick batter. 
Beat egg white to a stiff froth and fold into batter. 
Slice the bananas lengthwise, and cut each slice in 
half. Dip in the batter and fry in smoking hot fat 
until golden brown. Drain, sprinkle with sugar 
and serve with a sweet sauce. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Choose one dozen fine good-sized bananas, re- 
move skin and cut fruit in halves. Dip each piece 
in beaten egg and cracker, dust twice, brown in 
boiling lard. Garnish with small lettuce leaves and 
serve with or without hard sauce. 

BANANA BUTTER 

4 ripe bananas 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 cupful white sugar grated rind and juice of 

2 eggs one lemon 

Mash bananas and beat to a pulp with a fork, add 
butter, sugar, lemon, and the eggs well beaten, put 
all together in a smooth granite pan, and cook un- 
til as thick as custard, stirring constantly. Seal 



106 FRUITS AND THEIB COOKERY 

in an air-tight jar ; it will keep for some time in a 
cold place. Use as a filling for cake and pastries. 

BANANA PIE 

3 bananas 3^ cupful flour 

I cupful sugar % cupful boiling water 

1 tablespoonful butter Ya teaspoonful vanilla 

2 eggs flaky pastry- 
Bake a shell of the pastry. In the meantime 

cream together the sugar and butter, beat in the 
^ZZ yolks and flour, add the boiling water, and 
cook, stirring constantly until thickened. When 
the cream is cool, add the vanilla, slice the bananas, 
put a layer in the pastry shell, spread with a layer 
of the cream, lay on another of bananas, and top 
with cream. Whip the ^%% whites with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar until fluffy and dry, spread over 
the pie, and bake until a delicate brown. Those who 
do not like very sweet desserts will find that a three- 
quarter cupful of sugar is ample. 

BANANA FLUFF 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon J4 cupful fruit 

juice I cupful powdered sugar 

3 bananas i teaspoonful vanilla 
I tablespoonful grapefruit 3 eggs 

juice 

Pour the lemon and grapefruit juice over the 
peeled bananas and put on the ice for an hour. 
Mash thoroughly and beat for two minutes. Stir 
in the sugar and add the whites of the eggs. Beat 



BANANAS 107 

all until very light. Add the vanilla. Fill tall glass 
half full of peaches or any desired canned fruit and 
fold in the banana fluff. Top each glass with a 
maraschino cherry. 

BANANA SPONGE 

Soften one-fourth package of gelatin in one- 
fourth cupful of cold water. Remove the skin 
and coarse threads from four small bananas, and 
press the pulp through a ricer. There should be a 
generous cupful of pulp. Scald the pulp over a 
quick fire; add the softened gelatin and stir until 
dissolved; add half a cupful of sugar and the juice 
of a lemon, and stir over ice-water until the mixture 
thickens slightly; then fold in the whites of two 
eggs, beaten dry. Turn into a mold lined with 
slices of banana. Squeeze a little lemon juice over 
the slices of banana to keep them from discoloring. 

JUNKET AND BANANAS ♦^^ 

Pass the pulp of two bananas through a vege- 
table press, add tv/o teaspoonfuls of sugar and one- 
fourth cupful of water; let simmer until tho- 
roughly heated, then add a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and half a teaspoonful of granulated gelatin 
soaked in cold water and dissolved over hot water ; 
mix thoroughly, and pour into the bottom of six 
custard cups. When cold and set, heat one quart 
of milk with half a cupful of sugar to blood heat, 
remove from the fire, add one teaspoonful of vanilla 



108 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

extract and a teaspoonful of liquid rennet, or one 
junket tablet dissolved in a tablespoonful of water ; 
mix thoroughly, and pour over the banana in the 
cups. Serve with or without whipped cream. 

BANANA AND DATE PUDDING 

Gelatin, three scant cupfuls boiling water, three- 
fourths cupful sugar, one egg, one lemon, one cup- 
ful stoned dates, two bananas. Use amount of gel- 
atin ordinarily required for one quart of jelly and 
soften it with a little cold water; pour the boiling 
water onto it and stir until dissolved. Add sugar 
and stir until that is dissolved. Break egg into a 
cup and beat until light, fill cup with cold water 
and add to the boiling water. Let it boil up once, 
stirring constantly; then remove from stove. Add 
lemon rind (grated) and juice, also dates, cut into 
small pieces. Turn into mold. When cold, but not 
set, add bananas, sliced thin. When hard unmold 
and serve with whipped cream. This makes enough 
for seven or eight persons. 

BANANA COMPOTE 

Slice bananas, oranges and pineapple into a large 
dish. Mix thoroughly and sweeten to taste. Line 
sherbet cups with strips of banana, fill the center 
with the fruit mixture and place a spoonful of 
sweetened whipped cream and a candied cherry on 
top of each. 



BANANAS 109 



BANANA ICE CREAM 



I pint of milk J^ pound of sugar 

I pint of cream pinch of salt 

5 bananas J4 oi a, nutmeg 

Scrape the bananas lightly, after removing the 
peel, and mash them through a colander. Add to 
the banana pulp the pinch of salt, stir in the sugar, 
then the milk and cream. Then grate the nutmeg. 
Mix well. Churn and freeze in a half gallon can, 
as ice cream increases in bulk in the process of 
making. 

BANANA TAPIOCA 

Slice the bananas and sprinkle with the juice of 
a lemon. Cook instantaneous tapioca in a double 
boiler, allowing a cupful to three of water until it 
looks transparent. Add to it a pinch of salt, the 
grated rind of the lemion and half a cupful of sug- 
ar. Stir the bananas into the tapioca (about three 
will be the right amount), turn into a buttered pud- 
ding dish, put bits of butter on top and bake in a 
hot oven until the top is browned. Serve cold or 
hot with sugar and cream. 

ROGNONS AUX BANANAS 

Veal kidney and bananas are the ingredients of 
this dish. Take off a little of the kidney fat — use 
only a half or quarter for one person — and saute 
it with butter in quite a hot pan. The kidney must 
be browned slightly, but still be left a little pink in 



110 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the inside. This slight rareness improves the taste 
and leaves it tender. When cooked, push the kid- 
ney to one side and put in a banana, cut in length- 
wise slices that have been sprinkled with lemon 
juice. These will fall to pieces with the cooking. 
Pile the pulp beside the kidney on a hot plate and 
serve at once. 

BANANA CROQUETTES 

Peel and scrape ripe bananas. Cut each one in 
two pieces and cut off the sharp end, making them 
look like a croquette. Roll them in chopped nuts 
of any kind — either peanuts, hickory nuts or wal- 
nuts. Lay on a leaf of lettuce and serve with 
French dressing. 

BANANA PUDDING NO. i 

Peel one dozen bananas, pass through a sieve, add 
five tablespoonfuls sugar, three sponge-cakes crum- 
bled fine, three tablespoonfuls lemon juice, a pint of 
cream, five tablespoonfuls strawberry jam that has 
been passed through a sieve, the well-beaten yolks 
of four eggs. Mix well, add one teaspoonful va- 
nilla, and fold in gently the stiffly whisked whites 
of three eggs. Butter a mold well, put in the mix- 
ture, and steam gently one and one-quarter to one 
and one-half hours. Cover top of mold with but- 
tered paper. Turn out on hot dish, pour some 
slightly whipped cream over, and sprinkle top with 
chopped pistachio nuts. 



BANANAS 111 

BANANA PUDDING NO. 2 

Peel and slice some ripe bananas, place thick 
layer in a glass dish and cover with strawberry 
jam. Boil some tapioca in milk slightly sweetened 
and flavored with a few drops of vanilla. When 
cool, put a thick layer on the bananas and jam; add 
another layer of each, and so on, until the dish is 
full. Cover the whole with custard into which the 
pulp of two ripe bananas has been well mixed. The 
above can be placed in a pie dish and baked and 
served hot. 

BANANA PUDDING NO. 3 

Peel and slice six ripe bananas and cook them 
for ten minutes in syrup made with two ounces of 
sugar and one-half gill of water flavored with 
lemon. Cook two ounces of rice in a pint of milk, 
sweeten to taste, and add it to the bananas. Whisk 
stiffly whites of two eggs and mix them carefully 
with the rice and bananas. Pour the mixture into 
a buttered fire-proof baking dish, sprinkle the top 
with chopped almonds and sugar, and bake in a 
moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. 
Serve hot. 

BANANA CAKE 

3 teaspoonfuls baking I cupful sweet milk 

powder 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

i>4 cupfuls sugar i teaspoonful lemon extract 

3 eggs 



112 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Bake in layer tins. The whites of six eggs may 
be used, if a white cake is preferred, instead of the 
three whole eggs. Put together as follows: 

boiled frosting 
3 bananas 

rind and juice of one lemon 

Put boiled frosting between each layer and place 
over the frosting bananas cut in thin slices, the 
pieces joining each other closely. Sprinkle each 
layer with a little lemon juice and grated peel, and 
stir a little of the grated peel into the frosting used 
over the top of the cake. 

BANANA PICKLE 



I dozen bananas 


Yz teaspoonful ground gin- 


2 pounds Bermuda onions 


ger 


% cupful molasses 


I pint vinegar 


Yz pint water 


I pound dates 


I teaspoonful salt 


I teaspoonful allspice 



Cut bananas, dates, and onions into small pieces, 
add spices, vinegar, water, and molasses, mix well 
together; turn into a large stone jar or crock, bake 
in a slow oven till a rich brown, seal in jars while 
hot. 

BANANA OMELET 

Peel four not overripe bananas, cut them into 
round slices (not too thin), melt one ounce of but- 
ter in an omelet pan. When hot, put the bananas in 
and stir them in the butter for a few minutes, then 



BANANAS 113 

season with salt and pepper. Break four eggs into a 
basin, add one tablespoonful of milk, salt and pepper 
to taste, and beat well. Melt one ounce of butter in 
an omelet pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir 
over a quick fire until the eggs begin to set, then 
shape into an omelet. Put the prepared banana in 
the center, fold in the sides of the omelet and let it 
take color ; then turn out into a hot dish and serve. 

BANANA OMELET (SWEET) 

Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing 
recipe, but omit salt and pepper, and sweeten with 
sugar instead. When the omelet is ready to serve 
dredge the top with icing sugar and glaze the sur- 
face by placing it in a very hot oven for a few min- 
utes. 

BANANA WITH SAUSAGE 

Shape pork sausage meat into little rolls, place 
them in a frying pan with just enough hot water 
to cover and let boil one minute. Drain the water 
off carefully and fry the sausage until crisp over 
a quick fire. Remove from the pan and keep in a 
hot place. Peel three or four bananas and slice 
lengthwise. Put a small piece of butter into the 
pan in which the sausage was cooked and add the 
bananas. Fry them over a hot fire until thoroughly 
heated through. Pile the sausages in the center of 
a hot platter, arrange the banana slices around the 
edge and garnish with parsley. 



114 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



BANANA AND RHUBARB BETTY 

1 bunch of rhubarb i tablespoonful butter 

2 bananas i cupful bread crumbs 

54 cupful maple syrup 

Peel the firm, fresh stalks and cut in half-inch 
lengths. Slice the bananas in thin crosswise slices. 
Fill a well-buttered baking dish with alternate lay- 
ers of the fruit, separating the layers with bread 
crumbs and maple syrup. Finish with a layer of 
bread crumbs^ maple syrup and a few dots of butter. 
Bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

BANANA SANDWICHES 

Divide two medium-sized bananas crosswise into 
halves, then cut each piece lengthwise into slices 
about one-fourth inch thick. Prepare buttered 
strips of bread the size of the banana slices. Mix 
six tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar with a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, spread on the bread and 
butter and put two strips together with a strip of 
banana between. 

BANANA SPLITS 

Use one banana for each person ; peel, scrape and 
cut in two lengthwise. Lay it on a plate, cut side 
uppermost. Heap a spoonful of ice cream in the 
center, put a generous amount of whipped cream on 
that and top with a maraschino cherry. 



BANANAS' 115 



BANANA SOUFFLE 

I cupful thick cream 5 eggs 

I cupful finely sliced Yi cupful powdered 

bananas sugar 

Whip the cream stiff and fold in the sliced ba- 
nanas. Beat the eggs until stiff without separating, 
add sugar, and fold into cream and banana mixture. 
Half fill buttered ramekins, set them in a pan of 
hot water, and bake in a moderate oven until light 
and delicately browned. 

BANANA AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

3 large bananas Va cupful walnut meats 

5 or 6 slices Hawaiian pine- f rench dressing 

apple whipped cream 

Peel the bananas and slice lengthwise. Arrange 
on a salad plate alternately with the slices of pine- 
apple. Dress with French dressing and place the 
walnut meats on top. Put a little pile of mayon- 
naise, mixed until stiff with whipped cream, on each 
slice of pineapple. All of the ingredients should be 
very cold. 

BAKED BANANAS AND APPLES 

6 apples 6 teaspoonfuls sugar 

3 bananas I tablespoonful lemon juice 

Prepare the apples as for ordinary baking, but 
make the hole from which the core is removed large 



116 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKEEY 

enough to hold half of a banana. If the latter is 
too large around, trim it off a little. Sprinkle a 
teaspoonful of sugar and a few drops of lemon 
juice over each apple. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven. This imparts the flavor of the bananas to 
the apples. 



XII. WATERMELONS 

WATERMELON AND PINEAPPLE COCKTAILS 

Use twice as much chilled diced watermelon as 
shredded pineapple. Place in cocktail glasses ; pour 
a little juice in and garnish with a sprig of mint. 

CANTALOUPE COCKTAILS 

Dice the melon and add half the amount of diced 
ripe peaches. Sprinkle lightly with a little grated 
nutmeg and marinate on the ice with a little sweet 
orange juice. Serve very cold. 

WATERMELON CONSERVE 

Peel and cut the rind into small pieces, cover 
with weak salt water and let stand over night, then 
soak in cold water several hours. Drain and add 
water to cook until clear. Drain and to each pint 
of melon add one of sugar and one or two lemons 
sliced. Cook very slowly for two hours. 

SWEET PICKLE WATERMELON RIND 

Four cupfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls cinna- 
mon, one tablespoonful whole clove, two cupfuls 
vinegar, watermelon rind. Pare the watermelon 
rind, cut it into two-inch squares and cook it in 

117 



118 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

boiling water until it is tender. Put the vinegar, 
sugar and spices (tied in a cheesecloth bag) into a 
preserving kettle. Boil the mixture ten minutes 
and then cook it slowly for about two hours or until 
the syrup is thick. Add the melon rind and simmer 
it about one hour. Put it into jars. 

FROZEN WATEI^MELON 

Cut a melon into halves, and with a spoon scoop 
out large round pieces, pick the seeds out with a 
fork, arrange in a pail with powdered sugar sprin- 
kled on each layer and bury in ice and salt four 
hours. 

WATERMELON PRESERVE 

This is made from the red part of the melon. 
Dice the red portion of the melon, removing all 
seeds and every bit of the white part; weigh and 
use half as much sugar as you have melon, adding 
to every six pounds of melon the juice and grated 
yellow rinds of two lemons. Put all together in a 
large granite kettle and boil slowly, stirring often, 
until it is quite thick. At first you will think it is 
all going to water, but very soon you will notice it 
thicken. When it has become as thick as you like 
it seal hot in glass pint jars. 



XIII. CITRON MELON 

CITRON MELON PRESERVE 

Cut open the melon as you would a watermelon, 
take out inside, just use the rind, peel and cut in 
cubes or in small pieces. To every pound of citron 
allow one pound of sugar and one-fourth pound 
of ginger root. Put the citron melon in water 
enough to cover, add to this water two teaspoon fuls 
of baking soda, boil until just tender and cool. 
When cold soak in strong alum water one hour. 
Make a syrup of one pint of water and two pounds 
of sugar. Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, 
add this to the sugar and water, stir, let it boil, 
skim off the egg. The egg clears the sugar and 
water. Then add the ginger root and melon and 
cook in the syrup until clear. Put in glass jars and 
cover with the syrup. 

CITRON PRESERVE NO. i 

Pare citron and take out the seeds, cut in pieces 
one inch thick and two inches in length. Weigh 
them, put in kettle with water and cook until clear. 
Make a syrup of. their weight in sugar, add two 
slices of lemon to each pound of citron, put part 
of the citron in the syrup and boil about fifteen min- 

119 



120 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

utes. Skim out and put in jars. When all has 
been thus cooked boil the syrup thick and pour over 
the fruit until jars are full. Seal. 

CITRON PRESERV]? NO. 2 

Peel and cut citron in one inch squares, then boil 
till soft, draw off water; add one pound of sugar to 
one of fruit. To every five pounds of preserve add 
one pound of raisins, one lemon sliced, one-half 
ounce of white cloves, one ounce stick cinnamon. 
Dissolve sugar ; when hot add fruit and let simmer 
slowly two hours. 

BARBERRY SAUCE 

Half a peck of barberries, two quarts of molasses, 
one peck sweet apples. Pick over barberries, re- 
move all stems, wash and boil with water enough 
to float them. Add the molasses and cook until 
tender. While these are cooking, pare, quarter and 
core the apples, skim out the berries and cook the 
apples in the syrup, as many as can be cooked con- 
veniently. When tender, put them into dish with 
berries and boil the syrup until thick. Pour over 
fruit. Next morning heat all together again and 
seal. 



KIV. RHUBARB 

RHUBARB PIE 

Make and bake the pie crust, or line the pie plate 
in the usual way and brush the crust with white of 
tgg, then turn in the following mixture: two cup- 
fuls of cut-up rhubarb, two cupfuls of sugar, with 
which has been mixed two level tablespoon fuls of 
flour, and stir in, without beating, two eggs. Bake 
at once with or without lattice top. The amount 
will make one large and two small pies. 

RHUBARB CUSTARD PIE 

Add to two well-beaten eggs two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch mixed with two-thirds of 
a cupful of milk, half a cupful of sugar and one 
cupful of cooked and sweetened rhubarb. Pour 
this mixture into a plate lined with good pie-crust 
and bake. This may be covered with a meringue, 
or served with whipped cream. 

RHUBARB STEWED 

2 bunches strawberry rhu- 
barb 
il4 cupfuls sugar 

Select tender stalks of rhubarb, the strawberry 
variety if you can get it, wash in cold water, first 

121 



122 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

cutting off leaf and root ends with a very sharp 
knife, so as not to start the peel, which is not taken 
off. Cut them on a board in inch pieces and put 
in a double boiler and place over a slow fire. Add 
no water to rhubarb. After it has cooked for half 
an hour, add enough sugar to sweeten it. Replace 
the cover and cook until quite soft. 

RHUBARB AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

1 8 medium stalks rhubarb 
3 large oranges 

Slice oranges very fine and cut rhubarb in one- 
half inch pieces without removing skins. Mix, 
measure, and add an equal amount of sugar. Mix 
thoroughly and let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing, put in the preserving kettle and boil rapidly 
until a little of it will thicken like jelly when 
dropped into cold water. Pour into glasses and 
seal. 

RHUBARB WHIP 

Whip to a stiff froth the whites of three eggs; 
beat into them three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, then about 
a pint of rhubarb. Sprinkle the top with chopped 
nuts and serve. 

RHUBARB AND PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 

5 pounds rhubarb 

5 pounds sugar 

I pineapple (grated) 



RHUBAEB 123 

Wash rhubarb and cut in small pieces, add grated 
pineapple and sugar. Cook very slowly until sugar 
is melted, then cook moderately until rhubarb goes 
all to pieces. Pour into tumblers and cover with 
paraffin. 

RHUBARB JAM 

I pound rhubarb 
I pound sugar 
Yz lemon rind 

Wash the rhubarb and wipe perfectly dry. Peel 
and weigh it, mince the lemon rind and add it to 
the rhubarb. Put in a saucepan with the sugar. 
Keep it well skimmed and boil until it is thick, about 
an hour after it begins to boil. Pour into tumblers 
and cover with paraffin. 

RHUBARB BAKED WITH FIGS 

Cover well-washed bag figs with boiling water 
and cook until the water is nearly evaporated. Cut 
a pound of rhubarb unpeeled, if young, otherwise 
peeled, in inch pieces; put a layer into a baking 
dish, sprinkle with a teaspoonful of sugar, add a 
few figs, then a layer of rhubarb, sugar, and figs, 
until a pound of rhubarb and half a pound of figs 
are used; put in a few spoonfuls of hot water and 
bake, covered, in a slow oven until the rhubarb is 
tender but unbroken. Dates or raisins may take 
the place of the figs. 



124 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

RHUBARB BREAD PUDDING 

Pour boiling water on stale bread crumbs and 
let them soak until soft, then drain, and to a pint 
of crumbs add one well-beaten egg, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and a grating of nutmeg. Have ready 
buttered cups and put into each one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of cooked and sweetened rhubarb, 
put over it the crumb mixture and bake. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE 

Six pounds of rhubarb, the rinds of three lemons, 
twelve cupfuls of sugar. Cut the rhubarb into one- 
inch lengths, put these into a preserving kettle over 
a slow fire until the juice begins to flow, then add 
the sugar and the grated lemon rinds. Cook very 
slowly until sugar is dissolved, then quickly until 
it will jelly. It should not be at all thin or watery. 
Keep it well skimmed and avoid as much as possi- 
ble breaking up the pieces when stirring it. Pour 
into dry jars and cover tightly. One level tea- 
spoonful of powdered ginger may be used instead 
of the lemon rind, if preferred. 

RHUBARB AND FIGS 

4 pounds rhubarb 6 to 8 ounces candied peel 

4 pounds sugar (orange and lemon) 

I pound dried figs 

Wash the figs in hot water, dry them and cut in 
thin shreds. Choose fresh garden rhubarb, wipe it, 



RHUBARB 125 

and cut it in small pieces about one inch in length, 
but do not peel it unless the skin is coarse. Remove 
the sugar from the candied peel and shred it finely 
with a sharp knife. Put these three ingredients into 
a large earthen bowl with the sugar, cover, and let 
stand twenty-four hours. Then turn all into a pre- 
serving pan, bring to a boil, stirring frequently, and 
boil from three-quarters to one hour or until the 
jam will set. Pour into glasses and cover. 

RHUBARB AND GOOSEBERRIES 

2 pounds rhubarb 
2 pounds gooseberries 
sugar 

Wash rhubarb and gooseberries and put in pre- 
serving kettle. Boil together until soft and strain 
through a sieve. Weigh and return to the fire and 
boil until it looks clear and begins to thicken. Then 
add sugar of equal weight with fruit. Boil fifteen 
minutes longer. Pour into jelly glasses. 

RHUBARB ICE CREAM 

Cut up enough rhubarb, with the red peeling on, 
to make three pints, and cook until tender in just 
enough water to cover. Add a pinch of salt, and 
strain through a fine sieve. Add one pound of 
sugar; stir until dissolved; when nearly cold add 
one pint of plain or whipped cream or custard, and 
freeze. 



126 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



RHUBARB MERINGUE PIE 

ij^ cupfuls rhubarb 2 eggs 

I cupful sugar i tablespoonful butter 

I tablespoonful flour 



V 



Cover a pie plate with crust and fill with rhubarb 
mixture, which is put together as follows: Cream 
butter and sugar, add the slightly beaten egg yolks, 
flour, and the rhubarb, which has been cut fine, 
covered with just enough boiHng water to cook it, 
and allow to boil one minute. Bake until firm in 
a moderate oven. When cool, cover with a me- 
ringue, and brown slightly in oven. 



XV. BLUEBERRIES 

QUICK BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

1 quart stewed blueber- i teaspoonful lemon juice 

ries %. cupful flour 

2 eggs % teaspoonful salt 

iy2 cupfuls of sugar 3 tablespoonfuls baking 

2 tablespoonfuls cold powder 

water 

Put a quart of canned or stewed blueberries on 
the stove in a saucepan and let them get boiling 
hot, then cover the berries with a batter. To make 
this, beat eggs to a froth, add sugar, beat until light 
colored, then add water, lemon juice and lastly mix 
in lightly the flour sifted with salt and baking pow- 
der. Cover and cook for about thirty minutes. 
Serve with tgg sauce. 

EGG SAUCE 

I tablespoonful butter i teaspoonful lemon 

I tablespoonful flour flavoring 

I cupful boiling water i ^gg 
y^ cupful sugar 

Melt the butter in a saucepan and when liquid 
add the flour and mix well. Add gradually the 
boiling water, stirring all the time to keep the mix- 
ture smooth. Let it boil a few minutes, then add 

127 



128 FKUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the sugar and eggs beaten together; stir until the 
mixture thickens. Add flavoring. 

CREAM BLUEBERRY GINGERBREAD 

I cupful blueberries 2 cupfuls flour 

I cupful molasses Yz teaspoonful salt 

I cupful sour cream i teaspoonful ginger 

2 teaspoonfuls soda 

Mix together the molasses and cream, but re- 
serve one-fourth cupful of the flour to mix with the 
blueberries. Add the dry ingredients to the molas- 
ses mixture. Fold in the blueberries, and place in 
the oven as quickly as possible. Bake gently for 
thirty minutes. The gingerbread should be about 
one and one-half inches thick. This is equally good 
made with sweet cream, omitting one teaspoonful 
of soda. 

STEWED BLUEBERRIES AND DUMPLINGS 

Pick over and wash one quart of berries and stew 
with three cupfuls of water and sugar to taste. 
When berries start to boil add dumplings and let 
simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve with 
cream. 

Dumplings: Two cupfuls flour, one cupful water, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, half teaspoonful 
salt. Mix and drop into the berries. As the dump- 
lings rise, turn them over with a fork and let sim- 
mer. If sauce is too thick add more water to suit 
taste. 



BLUEBEREIES 129 

BLUEBERRY JAM 

4 quarts berries 
4 quarts sugar 

Place sugar and berries in preserving kettle, let 
stand several hours, boil slowly until thick, put in 
jelly glasses. 

BLUEBERRY BREAD PUDDING 

Stew two cupfuls blueberries with sweetening and 
while boiling hot pour over three or four well-but- 
tered slices of white bread arranged in bottom of 
white pudding dish. Set on ice before serving with 
cream. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS NO. i 

Two cupfuls of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one-fourth 
cupful of sugar, two small teaspoonfuls of baking 
povv^der, one egg, one cupful of milk and one cupful 
of berries. Mix as for plain muffins; add berries 
last, dusting them with a little flour. Bake in muffin 
pans in a hot oven. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS NO. 2 

Mix together three cupfuls of barley or oat flour, 
five teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one tablespoonful of sugar. Mix in 
gradually one cupful of skim milk, one lightly beat- 
en Ggg, a scant quarter of a cupful of cold water, 



130 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

one-quarter of a cupful of corn syrup and one cup- 
ful or more of blueberries. Mix well, fill into 
greased muffin pans, let stand for twenty minutes 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

SPICED BLUEBERRIES 

Grate a nutmeg, add two teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon and tie in a muslin bag. Scald one pint of 
vinegar with three pounds of sugar, add the spice 
bag and half a cupful of well-washed raisins and 
cook until the raisins are tender. Remove the 
spices, add five pounds of blueberries, let them boil 
five minutes and skim the fruit out into a jar. Boil 
the syrup ten minutes longer and pour it over the 
fruit. When cold cover closely and keep in a cool, 
dry place. 

BLUEBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Mix two cupfuls of flour with four level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one-fourth of a cupful 
of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of nutmeg; work in 
one-half of a cupful of butter, moisten with milk, 
place on a floured board and divide in two parts; 
pat, roll out, put one piece in a buttered tin, spread 
the dough with softened butter, cover with the re- 
maining part and bake in a hot oven until brown. 
Split open, spread with stewed and sweetened ber- 
ries and serve with cream. 



BLUEBEEEIES 131 



BLUEBERRY PIE WITH MERINGUE 

One cupful sugar, one teaspoonful flour, yolks 
of three eggs. Beat all together and add three 
cupfuls of blueberries. Bake with one crust and 
frost with the two tgg whites, sweetened and 
flavored. 

BLUEBERRY CUSTARD PIE 

Two cupfuls of scalding hot blueberry juice, 
yolks of two eggs beaten light, three- fourths cupful 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour mixed with the 
sugar, a pinch of salt. Cook in double boiler until 
thick. Have shell previously baked. Put cooked 
custard in crust, frost with the whites of eggs and 
brown lightly in oven. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

Sift together one cupful each of rice flour and 
cornmeal, half a teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Beat one egg with a scant cupful of milk 
and gradually beat the liquid into the dry ingredi- 
ents. Then add two tablespoonfuls of melted 
shortening, one and a half cupfuls of blueberries 
(dusted with rice flour) and one tablespoonful of 
''corn syrup.'* Bake in a greased pan, using a mod- 
erately hot oven, for about thirty minutes. 



132 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



BLUEBERRY PUFFS 

Yz cupful butter 4 ^gg whites 

I cupful sugar J^ teaspoonful salt 

^ cupful milk 2 cupfuls blueberries 

2j^ cupfuls flour I extra cupful sugar 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Cream butter; add sugar, flour, baking powder 
and salt alternately with milk. Beat well, add the 
stiffly beaten whites. Steam forty-five minutes in 
buttered popover cups. Serve with blueberry 
sauce. 

Sauce: Cook two cupfuls of blueberries and one 
cupful of sugar together for twenty minutes. 

CANNED BLUEBERRIES 

4 quarts of blueberries 
2 pints of sugar 

Place sugar and berries in preserving kettle, let 
them stand several hours, then cook slowly until the 
boiling point is reached; boil five minutes, fill steri- 
lized jars and seal. 

BLUEBERRY FLAPJACKS 

One pint sour milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
one-half cupful sugar, a little salt, one ^^g^ about 
one cupful of blueberries, flour for batter. 



XVI. RASPBERRIES 

RASPBERRY SOUFFLE 

Rub one quart of raspberries through a sieve, 
add three-quarters cupful of sugar and the stiffly 
beaten whites of six eggs. Mix lightly, turn into a 
buttered baking dish and bake from thirty to forty 
minutes. Serve immediately with cream, either 
plain or whipped. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA 

Cook for fifteen minutes in a double boiler one- 
half cupful of minute tapioca, one-half cupful sug- 
ar, one teaspoonful butter and three cupfuls of 
hot water. Crush one pint of raspberries, sweeten 
to taste and let stand one-half hour. Take tapioca 
from the fire and stir in fruit. Set in a cool place. 
Serve very cold with whipped cream. 

RASPBERRY ICE 

One quart of water and one pound of sugar 
boiled together five minutes. Add to one quart 
of red raspberries one cupful of sugar and the 
juice of two lemons, and let them stand one hour. 
Then press through a fruit press and add juice ob- 
tained to the boiled sugar and water; strain into a 

133 



134 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

well-packed freezer and turn five minutes, then 
add the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
turn until stiff. 

RASPBERRY BOMBE GLACE 

Line a three-pint melon mold with raspberry ice. 
Fill the center with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored before whipping. Let stand, packed in 
equal measures of ice and salt, about three hours. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP 

Pick over and mash two quarts of raspberries, 
cover and let stand in graniteware dish over night. 
In the morning add three-fourths cupful of cold 
water, bring slowly to the boiling point and let sim- 
mer twenty minutes. Force through a double thick- 
ness of cheesecloth, again bring to the boiling point, 
and fill small glass jars. 

RASPBERRY CREAM PIE 

Line a deep pie plate with rich paste, rub the edge 
with butter, fill with raspberries and sprinkle gen- 
erously with sugar. Cut out an upper crust, rub 
the edge also with butter to prevent the two from 
sticking together, place over the pie and bake. Scald 
one cupful of milk, thicken with two teaspoonfuls 
of cornstarch mixed with a little cold milk. Add 
one-fourth of a cupful of sugar and a dash of salt, 
cook over boiling water for twenty minutes, flavor 



RASPBEERIES 135 

with a few drops of vanilla, cool and fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. When the pie 
is cold, remove the upper crust, pour in the cream, 
replace the crust and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

RASPBERRY BAR-LE-DUC 

I quart perfect red raspber- 3 cupfuls sugar 

ries I cupful red raspberry juice 

I cupful currant juice 

Combine fruit juices, add sugar, let boil until 
they are very thick and almost jelly, then drop in 
the raspberries, a few at a time; cook for two or 
three minutes and remove with a skimmer to small 
glasses. When all the berries are cooked, the syrup 
will be considerably thinned, so boil it down till 
very thick again, pour into the glasses containing 
the raspberries, and seal as usual. , 

LOUISVILLE FRUIT PUDDING 

I pint fresh raspberries ' /z cupfuls sugar 
I pint fresh currants 1 quart water 

7 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 

Wash berries and currants, and cook in the water 
till soft, about five minutes. Drain through a very 
fine sieve, return juice to the heat, and when at boil- 
ing point, add the sugar and cornstarch, mixed with 
a little cold water. Let boil gently for five min- 
utes, stirring constantly. Pour into molds wet in 
cold water, let stiffen, and serve with cream. 



136 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

NESTS OF RICE WITH RASPBERRY JAM 

Cook one-half cupful of rice in two cupfuls of 
milk until tender and the liquid is absorbed. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and the beaten yolks of two eggs ; cool, shape 
in the form of nests, dip in fine crumbs, then in 
beaten tgg and again in crumbs, let stand one or 
more hours and fry in deep hot fat. Drain on soft 
paper and fill with preserved raspberries. 

RASPBERRY TURNOVERS 

Mix and sift together two cupfuls of flour, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, two rounded teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and one saltspoonful of salt; rub 
in one-quarter of a cup of butter and moisten with 
enough milk to make a rather stiff dough. Place 
on a floured board, roll out, cut into rounds, place a 
tablespoonful of preserved berries on each, sprinkle 
with sugar, fold the dough over, press the edges 
firmly together, brush the tops with milk and bake 
in a quick oven. When done serve with raspberry 
sauce. To make this, cream one-third cupful of 
butter, add gradually one and one-fourth cupfuls 
of powdered sugar, flavor with a few drops of va- 
nilla, then add very gradually half a cupful of 
mashed berries. Place on ice until needed. 

RASPBERRY PARFAIT 

2 cupfuls raspberries 2 egg whites 

I cupful sugar i cupful heavy cream 

y2 cupful water 



RASPBERRIES 137 

Wash, pick over, hull and mash berries. Sprinkle 
with one-half the sugar, cover and let stand several 
hours; then force through a fine strainer. Put re- 
maining sugar in saucepan, add water, bring to 
boiling point, and let boil until mixture will spin a 
thread when dropped from tip of spoon. Pour syrup 
gradually, while beating constantly, on whites of 
eggs, beaten until stiff. Cool and fold in cream, 
beaten until stiff. Fill mold to overflow, cover with 
buttered paper, adjust cover, pack in ice and salt, 
using two parts ice to one part salt, and let stand 
three hours. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT DUMPLINGS 

Sift together two cupfuls of flour, four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder and one-half teaspoonful of 
salt; rub in one-half cupful of butter, moisten with 
about two-thirds cupful of milk, turn out on a 
floured board, knead slightly, roll out one-quarter 
inch in thickness and cut into four-inch squares. 
Put two tablespoonfuls each of raspberries and cur- 
rants on each piece, sprinkle generously with sugar, 
add a bit of butter, fold the edges of the dough over 
the fruit, press firmly together and bake half an 
hour in a moderate oven. Serve with foamy sauce. 

RASPBERRY SPONGE 

Sweeten well two and one-half cupfuls of rasp- 
berry juice and bring to a boil. Add half a package 
of soaked gelatin,, stirring until dissolved. When 



138 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

cool, but not set, fold in the whites of three eggs 
beaten until stiff. Beat until thick. Mold, chill and 
serve with whipped cream. 

RASPBERRY JELLY FLUFF 

Dissolve one package of raspberry gelatin in 
one pint of boiling water. Divide it into three equal 
parts and put one part in a square mold. When 
one of the remaining portions begins to thicken 
beat it with an egg beater until it is dry and foamy 
and add one cupful of nut meats and one cupful 
of small pieces of marshmallows and chopped dates. 
Spread this mixture over the portion in the square 
mold and cover with the remaining third. Put in 
a cold place to harden. To serve, cut in slices, using 
a knife dipped in hot water ; add whipped cream and 
bits of raspberry jam. 

RASPBERRY NECTAR 

Dissolve two cupfuls of sugar in the same amount 
of cold water; add the grated rind of one orange, 
taking care to use the yellow part only, as the white 
rind imparts a bitter taste. Bring to a boil. Strain 
this syrup and add to it the juice of two lemons and 
two oranges, and one quart of raspberry juice. Set 
in a cold place and allow it to get ice cold before 
serving. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET NO. i 

1 quart water ^2 cupful orange juice 

2 cupfuls sugar /4 cupful lemon juice 

2 cupfuls raspberry juice 



RASPBEREIES 139 

Boil water and sugar together for twenty min- 
utes, add fruit juice, cool and strain. Freeze to a 
mush. Serve as soon as possible after freezing. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING NO. i 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add 
one pint of canned raspberries, one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and two-thirds cupful of stale cake 
crumbs ; beat thoroughly, turn into a buttered bak- 
ing dish, stand it in a pan of hot water and bake 
about half an hour. Serve with custard sauce. 

RASPBERRY FOAM 

Whip the whites of four eggs until frothy, add 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar and whip stiff, drop- 
ping in a little at a time, three tablespoonfuls of 
raspberry juice. Heap in glasses and serve at once. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING NO. 2 

To use up dry pieces of cake, steam them, split 
and put a spoonful of raspberries previously 
mashed and sweetened on each piece, then cover 
with sweetened whipped cream, flavored or not, as 
you like. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET NO. 2 

Make a syrup from a pint of water and one and 
a quarter cupfuls of sugar. Remove from the fire, 
cool and beat with an G^gg whip. When quite cold 
add one large cupful of strained raspberry juice 



140 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

and freeze slowly as for ice cream. When the mix- 
ture begins to harden, add the stiffly whipped whites 
of two eggs and continue freezing to the desired 
consistency. Serve in sherbet cups. 

RASPBERRY AND APPLE JELLY 

Wash and quarter enough apples to make one 
and one-half cupfuls of juice, put them into a kettle, 
cover with water and boil until tender. Add one- 
half cupful of raspberry juice and three cupfuls of 
sugar and boil until it jellies. 

RASPBERRY PRESERVES 

To two cupfuls of sugar add one cupful of water, 
let come to a boil, skim and add a few drops of 
lemon juice to keep the syrup from candying. Let 
boil until it spins a thread from the end of a silver 
fork, then put in one quart of fruit. Let it boil 
for about five minutes. Do not stir. When done, 
set away for six hours. Fill jars that have been 
sterilized with the cold preserved raspberries and 
seal. 

CANNED RASPBERRIES 

Put a layer of berries then a layer of sugar in a 
dish until all berries are used. Let stand over night, 
then put in jars, put on rubbers and tops and put 
wire across top, but do not spring lower wire. Put 
in boiler, let come to a boil and boil just ten min- 
utes. Take out, snap clamp down and when cold 
dip in hot paraffin. 



RASPBERRIES 141 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

To four quarts of raspberries put enough cider 
vinegar to cover and let stand twenty-four hours. 
Scald and strain and add a pound of sugar to a pint 
of juice. Boil it twenty minutes and bottle. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 

Put one pint of cider vinegar over six quarts of 
raspberries. Let stand over night. Next morning 
strain and to every pint of juice add one pound of 
sugar. Scald ten minutes, then bottle and cover the 
corks with paraffin. When used take half a glass of 
the shrub to half a glass of ice water or lemonade. 



XVII. BLACKBERRIES 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

I quart blackberries 
I pound sugar 

Mash the berries, add sugar and stew for one 
half hour. Seal while hot. 

BLACKBERRY AND APPLE JAM 

2 quarts mashed blackber- 
ries 

1 quart tart apples 

2 quarts of sugar 

Cook all together about twenty minutes. 

BLACKBERRY CORNSTARCH 

I pint ripe blackberries Yz cupful sugar 

I pint water i tablespoonful cornstarch 

whipped cream 

Simmer together the blackberries and water. Do 
not stir. Mix cornstarch with just a little cold 
water and stir in carefully. Do not break the fruit. 
Let it cook for five minutes, remove, add the sugar, 
and when cool pour into glasses. Serve ice cold with 
a heaping tablespoonful of whipped cream on each 
glass. 

142 



BLACKBEEEIES 143 

BLACKBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatin 
in one-half cupful of blackberry juice. Add one- 
half cupful hot juice, to which has been added one 
cupful of sugar. Add one-fourth cupful of lemon 
juice, when cool, and one cupful of blackberry juice. 
When the mixture begins to harden, beat until 
light; add the whip from two cupfuls of cream, 
and beat until stiff enough to drop. Mold. Serve 
with a garnish of whipped cream and whole berries. 

BLACKBERRY CUSTARD 

Line a deep dish with dead ripe blackberries. 
Beat the yolks of five eggs to a cream with seven 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and stir in two 
cupfuls of hot milk. Cook this in a double boiler 
until it becomes a smooth custard, then add a dash 
of salt and two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. When 
almost cold pour in between the berries and set 
away to harden. 

BLACKBERRY GELATIN 

Make a blackberry jelly pouring a thin layer in 
a shallow square pan. Allow the mixture to partly 
set, then arrange very large and ripe blackberries 
in rows on the jelly. Pour over these the remain- 
ing jelly and let chill. Cut in cubes, each contain- 
ing a whole berry. Serve, piled on a plate, and 
garnish with whipped cream put through the pastry 
bag. 



144 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

BLACKBERRY JELLY 

I quart blackberries i}i tablespoonfuls granu- 

I lemon lated gelatin 

I cupful sugar water 

Wash berries carefully, crush, and put in a sauce- 
pan with the sugar, allowing them to simmer for 
five minutes to draw out the juices. Rub through 
a fine sieve; add the juice of the whole lemon and 
the grated rind of half. Add enough water to 
make three cupfuls of liquid, heat but do not 
boil, and stir in the gelatin, which should be pre- 
viously soaked in two-thirds cupful of cold water. 
Pour into individual molds, let stand until the next 
day and serve with sweetened whipped cream. 

BLACKBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Heat one and one-half cupfuls of blackberry juice 
and pour over four ^gg yolks, slightly beaten, with 
one cupful of sugar and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt. Cook mixture in double boiler until thick- 
ened; remove from fire; add one-fourth cup- 
ful of the cold fruit juice. When cold and begin- 
ning to set, whip with the Dover egg-beater and 
then fold in two cupfuls of cream, whipped until 
stiflf. Turn in a mold and let chill. It should have 
a spongy texture. Do not use any of the cream that 
has drained through in whip. 



BLACKBEEEIES 145 

BLACKBERRY PIE 

Wash and drain one quart of blackberries; put 
them in a pie plate lined with rich paste ; dust with 
cinnamon; dot with bits of butter; sprinkle with 
one cupful of sugar mixed with one tablespoonful 
of cornstarch and a dash of salt; cover with paste 
having slits for the steam to escape, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING 

Sift two cupfuls of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and one-half teaspoonful of salt; 
rub in two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter and 
moisten with about one cupful of milk to which 
has been added one beaten tgg; put a thin layer of 
the dough in a buttered dish, cover with one quart 
of blackberries, then with another layer of the 
dough ; place in a steamer and steam for about forty 
minutes ; serve with hard sauce. 

BAKED BLACKBERRY PUDDING 

One beaten egg, one-half cupful sugar, one cup- 
ful milk. Add two cupfuls flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, sifted to- 
gether. Put half the butter in greased pudding 
dish; cover with two cupfuls berries; spread over 
remaining batter; bake in moderate oven or steam 
one hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 



146 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Lemon Sauce: Half cupful sugar, two level 
tablespoonfuls flour, one-half teaspoonful salt. 
Moisten with very little cold water ; add two cupf uls 
boiling water, cook till clear ; add juice of one-half 
lemon or one teaspoonful lemon extract and small 
piece of butter. 

BLACKBERRY BREAD PUDDING 

Soak two cupfuls of bread crumbs in two and a 
half cupfuls of milk, then add three-quarters of a 
cupful of sugar, two well beaten eggs and a pinch 
of salt. Then add one cupful of preserved black- 
berries. Bake in a buttered pudding dish in a slow 
oven for an hour. 

BLACKBERRY MOUSSE 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatin in one-half 
a cupful of blackberry juice. Add a syrup made of 
one and one-half cupfuls of blackberry juice and 
one cupful of sugar. Beat until cool, then fold in 
two cupfuls of cream, whipped until stiff. Pour 
in mold. 

BLACKBERRY SPONGE 

Into a pudding dish put a layer of thin bread and 
butter, then one of hot blackberry juice; continue 
using bread, butter and juice until the dish is full. 
Let it stand to get very cold. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 



BLACKBEREIES 147 

BLACKBERRY VINEGAR 

Put four quarts of fresh blackberries in a stone 
jar; pour over them one quart of good cider vine- 
gar ; cover closely ; let stand two weeks, then strain ; 
pour the vinegar over two quarts of fresh berries; 
let stand one week; strain; pour over two more 
quarts of fresh berries; let stand two weeks and 
strain again. Add one and one-half pounds of 
granulated sugar to each quart of vinegar ; heat to 
the boiling point ; remove all scum as it rises, then 
bottle and seal. 



XVIII. STRAWBERRIES 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

strawberries 
granulated sugar 

Use only fresh, clean fruit, and do not wash. 
Hull the berries, and for each cupful of fruit meas- 
ure one cupful of granulated sugar, put in an 
enamel kettle, place at once over a hot fire and 
stir. The juice thus extracted will make abundant 
syrup. Boil twelve minutes, and then pour into 
sterilized jelly glasses. It is best to make this pre- 
serve in small amounts as the color and flavor can 
thus be retained to better advantage. When cold 
the glasses should be sealed with paraffin. The 
fruit will keep indefinitely. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE 

Press one quart of hulled strawberries through 
a sieve; add six tablespoonfuls of sugar and the 
beaten whites of six eggs. Mix lightly; pour into 
a buttered dish and bake slowly for forty minutes. 
Serve at once with cream. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

One quart of water, two and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar, one and one-half cupfuls of strawberry juice, 
strained. Prepare like lemon ice. 

148 



STRAWBEEEIES 149 

FROZEN STRAWBERRY CREAM 

2 cupfuls sugar i quart strawberries 

I cupful water i cupful cream 

Make a syrup by boiling together the sugar and 
water; add the berries cut into halves and simmer 
them in the syrup for fifteen minutes. Remove the 
fruit, add the cream to the remaining syrup, cool 
and freeze rather soft. Now add the strawberries, 
pack down closely, and set aside for two hours to 
ripen. 

STRAWBERRY FLUFF NO. i 

1 box strawberries ij4 cupfuls sugar 

2 egg whites few grains salt 

3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 

Hull the berries, crush and combine with one cup- 
ful of the sugar and let stand for at least an hour. 
Then strain off one and one-half cupfuls of juice 
and bring to boiling point. In the meantime, mix 
together the cornstarch, sugar, and salt, add a little 
of the hot juice, combine the two mixtures, and let 
boil until a thick paste is formed. It should cook 
at least fifteen minutes. Beat the egg-whites and 
pour in the cornstarch mixture, beating constantly. 
Turn into a mold wet with cold water and let stiffen. 
Serve with the crushed fruit about the base. 

STRAWBERRY JUNKET / 

Allow one quart of new milk to become lukewarm 
on the back of the range, then pour it into a glass 



150 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

dish, sweeten to taste, and flavor with lemon. Add, 
stirring slightly, one rennet tablet or three-fourths 
of a tablespoonful of liquid rennet. Then set it 
away to cool, being careful not to jar it. Just be- 
fore serving fill sherbet glasses with alternate 
spoonfuls of the junket and sliced and sweetened 
strawberries. Heap whipped cream on top, and put 
one fine large berry dusted with granulated sugar 
in the center. Serve with any delicate cake. 

STRAWBERRY FRITTERS 

I cupful flour 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

y-z teaspoon ful salt 3 eggs 
I teaspoonful baking milk 

powder J^ box strawberries 
frying fat 

Add to the flour, salt, and baking powder, sifted 
together, the beaten eggs and a very little milk, to 
form a batter. Cut strawberries into halves, 
sweeten them, and add to the batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls into a frying pan in which is a little hot 
fat; cook until golden brown on both sides, then 
sprinkle with sugar and garnish with a few fresh 
berries. 

STRAWBERRY ROLL 

2 cupfuls flour I teaspoonful salt 
l^' teaspoonfuls baking milk 

powder strawberries 

2 tablespoonfuls butter sugar 

First, sift together flour, salt and baking powder, 
rub in the butter, then mix with the milk, as for 



STRAWBEB.RIES 151 

biscuit dough. Roll out, spread thickly with straw- 
berries, then with sugar, and dredge a little flour 
over them. Roll up as for a jelly roll, moistening 
the edges of the dough with milk that they may 
stick together; tie in a cheesecloth and steam for 
one hour. Or, if preferred, lay the roll on a baking 
sheet, brush over with milk and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven. In either case, serve with straw- 
berry sauce or with any preferred sweet sauce. 

STRAWBERRY TRIFLE 

Flavor one pint of double cream with half a 
teaspoonful of lemon extract, then whip to a froth. 
Arrange finger strips of cake log-cabin fashion in 
a shallow glass dish and fill the center with alter- 
nate layers of the cream and fine ripe sweetened 
berries. Place the cream that is left in a ring 
around the outside of the cake. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRY NECTAR 

Whip one pint of sweet double cream until thick. 
Fold in two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one-half 
cupful of finely chopped blanched almonds and one 
quart of strawberries slightly crushed. Turn into 
a pudding mold having a tube in the center. Pack 
in ice and salt, cover with a heavy blanket and let 
stand in a cool place for three or four hours. 
When ready to serve, turn out carefully, and fill the 
hollow center with sweetened berries mixed with 
whipped cream. 



152 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



STRAV/BERRY SALAD NO. i 

Yi cupful strained honey i tablespoonful lemon juice 

3 yolks of eggs i cupful cream 

Yz teaspoonful salt i cupful cream cheese 

/4 teaspoonful paprika 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

I quart strawberries 

Bring honey to boiling point, pour slowly, while 
beating constantly, onto ^^% yolks, beaten until 
thick and lemon colored. Cook one minute, remove 
from fire, and stir occasionally until cool. Add 
salt, paprika, lemon juice, and cream beaten until 
stiff. Moisten cheese with two tablespoonfuls 
cream, shape like strawberries, using buttered 
hands, and sprinkle with paprika. Arrange cheese 
and strawberries on lettuce and pour honey dress- 
ing around them. 

STRAWBERRIES AND PINEAPPLE 

Wash and hull large strawberries, allowing six 
or eight to a person; cut fresh ripe pineapple in 
strips about one quarter inch thick and one inch 
long, insert in the berries to replace the hulls. Ar- 
range individually and garnish with whipped cream, 
which has been sweetened to taste with powdered 
sugar. 

STRAWBERRY TAPIOCA 

I cupful tapioca ^ cupful sugar 

I pint boiling water ^ box strawberries 

juice of half a lemon 



STRAWBERRIES 153 

Cook the tapioca in the boiling water until clear, 
using a double boiler for the purpose. Crush the 
strawberries slightly, add them to the tapioca, to- 
gether with the sugar, cook ten minutes, stir in 
the lemon juice and set aside to cool. Serve plain, 
or with custard or cream. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

I cupful powdered sugar 
3 tablespoonfuls butter 
6 or 8 ripe strawberries 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream as for hard 
sauce, and during the beating add the berries, one 
at a time, mashing them thoroughly in with the 
other ingredients. When all have been added, pile 
the sauce high in a dish and set aside to cool 
until needed. This is good served with any plain 
hot pudding. 

STRAWBERRY NESTS 

Soak half a box of gelatin in half a cupful of 
cold water for half an hour, then add a pint of boil- 
ing water, a cupful of granulated sugar, and the 
juice of two lemons. Mix in the whites of two eggs, 
well beaten, and stir over the fire until the gelatin 
is dissolved, but not allowed to boil. Tinge it a very 
delicate green with a little vegetable coloring. 
Strain, and after slightly cooling put a spoonful in 
the bottom of each individual mold. Small bowls 
do nicely for these. Let the jelly harden in 



154 FKUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the molds, then stand smaller molds, which may be 
tumblers, inside on the jelly. Fill the space between 
the two bowls with the jelly and let it harden. Af- 
ter brushing the inside of the smaller mold with 
hot water remove it carefully. Fill the space va- 
cated with strawberry charlotte, and stand in a cold 
place for at least four hours. 

JELLY RUSSE 

i>^ tablespoon fuls gelatin i cupful strawberry syrup 

}i cupful cold water 2 cupfuls cream 

Yz cupful boiling water i small jelly roll 

Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve in boiling 
water. Add strawberry syrup, drained from one 
quart strawberries that have been standing with 
one cupful sugar for several hours. Set bowl 
containing mixture in pan of ice water, and 
stir until mixture begins to thicken, then fold in 
stiffly beaten cream. Cut jelly roll in one-half 
inch slices. Line a charlotte russe mold with slices 
and fill with the mixture, chill, and unmold for 
serving. 

STRAWBERRYADE 

To one and one-half cupfuls of strawberry juice 
add the juice of three oranges and two lemons. 
Sweeten with about one cupful of sugar and one 
quart of cold water, and chill. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING 

Cream one-half cupful of butter with six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, add two well-beaten eggs, one 



STRAWBEREIES 155 

cupful of flour, pinch of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
of baking powder, one tablespoonful of strawberry 
jam and a few drops of red color. Pour into but- 
tered pudding mold, cover with buttered paper and 
steam gently for two hours. Turn out and decorate 
with ripe strawberries which have been slightly 
stewed in syrup. To make the syrup, mix one cup- 
ful of sugar and one-half cupful of water and boil 
for two minutes. 

STRAWBERRY SYRUP 

Boil a cupful of fresh strawberry juice (obtained 
as in making jelly) with a cupful of sugar to a thick 
syrup ; cool, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and 
pour into a sauceboat. Serve icy cold with por- 
tions of ice cream. Red raspberries, cherries, 
peaches, grapes, quinces, in fact any kind of fruit, 
may be used for these delicious syrups, affording 
opportunity for unlimited variety. It is an excellent 
plan to make and bottle these syrups in season, us- 
ing preferably bottles that are small enough to hold 
only sufficient for one serving. However, the juice 
of canned fruit may be used when fresh fruit is not 
obtainable, but allow only half a cupful of sugar to 
a cupful of juice. 

STRAWBERRY SORBET 

3 cupfuls of sugar 3 pints of water 

2 lemons 2 quarts of strawberries 

I pint of cream 



156 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Press the strawberries through a fruit sieve, then 
add one cupful of sugar. Mix the grated rind of 
one lemon with the remaining two cupfuls of sugar. 
Then add water and boil twenty minutes. When 
thoroughly cool, add the mashed strawberries and 
lemon juice. Freeze twenty minutes, then add 
cream, which should be whipped to a stiff froth, 
then freeze again until thoroughly frozen. 

BAKED CUSTARD WITH STRAWBERRY 
SAUCE 

Beat slightly four eggs, whites and yolks to- 
gether. Add one quart of fresh milk, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Bake in cups placed in a pan 
of water in a moderate oven. When done, allow 
the custard to become cold, and then place it in the 
icebox a few hours before serving. 

To make this sauce, boil for five minutes a half 
cupful of water and one cupful of sugar ; add a cup- 
ful of strawberry juice and boil for five minutes 
longer, then cool. At serving time, turn out the 
individual custard molds and pour the cold sauce 
over them and garnish with large fresh berries. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak one tablespoonful gelatin in cold water five 
minutes, and dissolve by standing the cup contain- 
ing the mixture in hot water. Strain into the straw- 
berry juice mixed with the lemon juice. Add sugar 



STRAWBERRIES 157 

and when the sugar is dissolved set the bowl con- 
taining the mixture in a pan of ice water and stir 
until it begins to thicken ; then fold in cream. Turn 
into a wet mold lined with strawberries cut in 
halves, and chill. Garnish with whole strawberries 
and leaves. 

STRAWBERRY COTTAGE PUDDING 

Rub to a cream one tablespoonful of butter and 
half a cupful of sugar; add one beaten egg, half a 
cupful of milk and finally one cupful of flour 
mixed and sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. Beat thor- 
oughly, turn into a pan having a tube in the center 
and bake half an hour. Turn out on serving dish, 
fill the center with fresh strawberries cut in halves 
and sweetened, and serve with whipped cream 
sauce. 

Whipped cream sauce: Beat the white of one 
egg to a foam, add one cupful of heavy cream and 
beat until thick, then add half a cupful of powdered 
sugar and flavor delicately with orange extract. 

STRAWBERRIES AND BONNY CLABBER 

To make bonny clabber take milk that is just at 
the turning point and set it in the sun or in a warm 
place by the fire where it will complete the souring 
quickly, turning to the consistency of baked custard. 
It should then be set on ice and kept cold until just 
ready to serve. It is a good plan to pour the milk 



158 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

into a glass bowl before it sets, as it looks more at- 
tractive when brought to the table without having 
been poured out of one dish into another. It may 
be eaten plain with the strawberries, •or'with sugar, 
cream and grated nutmeg. 

STRAWBERRY RICE 

One-thirdicupfurof rice, three»cupfuls milk, one- 
quarter level teaspoonful salt, one cupful ripe ber- 
ries, one-half cupful water, one cupful sugar, 
chipped rind of one half orange. Wash the rice, 
put milk into a double boiler, add rice, salt and 
cook until the rice is soft and has absorbed all the 
milk, turn into individual cups or a large mold and 
when cold turn out and serve with strawberry 
sauce. Put the sugar and water and the orange 
rind into a small saucepan, heat slowly, stirring un- 
til the sugar is dissolved. Boil gently to a heavy 
syrup, one that will spin a thread when dropped 
from the tip of a spoon, remove from fire and add 
berries which have been washed, hulled and cut 
into halves. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE 

Whites of two eggs, beaten until stiff, add one 
cupful confectioner's sugar, one cupful crushed 
strawberries. Beat for about one-half hour with 
egg-beater, and spread on cake. 



STRAWBEREIES 159 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE 

To two cupfuls of strawberries, hulled and 
washed, add one and one-half cupfuls of cold water 
and cook ten minutes with one-half cupful of sugar. 
Put through a fine strainer and add one tablespoon- 
ful of granulated gelatin. Pour into a dish to cool. 
When it begins to congeal, add the whites of two 
eggs which have been beaten stiff. Whip the whole 
with an egg-beater and turn into custard cups or 
frappe glasses. Serve with a soft custard made 
with the yolks of the two eggs and one whole egg, 
beaten with one-half cupful of sugar and a few 
grains of salt. Pour on two cupfuls of hot milk 
and cook in a double boiler a few minutes. Serve 
both ice cold. 

STRAWBERRY OMELET 

Use any good omelet recipe, leave out pepper and 
add one teaspoonful of sugar and either water or 
the juice of the fruit instead of milk. When ready 
to fold spread with fruit well sweetened. Put 
whipped cream on top of the fruit fold, shake on 
powdered sugar and serve immediately. 

STRAWBERRY COCKTAILS 

Select large perfect berries and cut them in 
halves, saving every particle of juice. For four 
portions use half a box of ripe berries and add the 



160 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

juice and pulp of one large orange, three table- 
spoonfuls of honey, the juice of one lemon and four 
tablespoonfuls of shaved (not chopped) ice. Fill 
into cocktail glasses and insert in each a sprig of 
fresh mint. 

ICED STRAWBERRY FOOL 

Crush one pound of fresh strawberries in a 
bowl with the strained juice of one-half lemon and 
three-fourths of a cupful of sugar. Rub them 
through a fine sieve. Beat one cupful of cream, stir 
into this the strawberry puree, add a little more 
sugar if not sweet enough and just a drop or two 
of red color. Freeze and serve in glasses. 

STRAWBERRIES A LA FRANCAISE 

Soak one cupful of perfect strawberries in one 
cupful of orange juice for an hour, sweeten to taste 
serve in small glasses with lady fingers. 

STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED WITHOUT 
COOKING 

To each cupful of berries (hulled and washed) 
add one cupful of sugar, and let stand over night 
on ice. In the morning place in jars and seal. 

STRAWBERRY PIE 

Wash and hull one basket strawberries add one 
generous cupful of sugar and a little water. Bring 
quickly to a boil before the berries get broken or 



STRAWBERKIES 161 

lose their color. Thicken with cornstarch dissolved 
in a little cold water. Bake with rich crust with 
lattice top. May be served with cream. 

STRAWBERRY MERINGUE 

Make a puff paste, cut out the size of a dinner 
plate, bake to a light brown in a quick oven. Draw 
to the oven door; lay strawberries rolled in sugar 
over it; cover these an inch deep with a meringue 
made of the whites of four eggs beaten stiff with 
three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Bake until 
meringue is faintly tinged a yellow brown. To be 
served warm. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD NO. 2 

I head chicory a few chopped pistachio nuts 

I box large strawberries cream mayonnaise 

6 slices pineapple (canned) 

Wash chicory and crisp in ice-water. Wash and 
hull berries; let stand in refrigerator until cold. 
Arrange chicory on individual plates, placing a slice 
of pineapple in the center of each. Cover pineapple 
with berries; top with cream mayonnaise, garnish 
with nuts. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

Boil one quart of hot water and one pint of 
sugar for five minutes; cool; add the juice of two 
lemons, the juice of two oranges and one pint of 
crushed strawberries. Partially freeze; add the 



162 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

beaten white of one egg and continue freezing until 
solid. 

STRAWBERRY FLUFF NO. 2 

Crush two cupfuls of strawberries and cook them 
with one and one-half cupfuls of granulated sugar 
until they are thick. When thoroughly cool, stir 
in four finely crushed lady fingers. Beat this mix- 
ture, a spoonful at a time, into the stiffly beaten 
whites of four eggs. Line a mold with blanched 
almonds, and fill it with the mixture; place in pan 
of boiling water, and bake in the oven for one-half 
hour. When cool, invert on dish and serve with 
cream. 

STRAWBERRY AND MACAROON ICE 

Sprinkle one box strawberries with one cupful 
sugar, cover and let stand two hours. Mash, 
squeeze through cheesecloth and add juice of one 
lemon and a few grains salt. Pour into a quart 
brick mold, adding enough cold water to half fill 
the mold. Mix one-half pint heavy cream and one- 
third cupful milk and beat until stiff. Add one- 
third cupful powdered sugar, two-thirds cupful 
rolled macaroon drops, one-half tablespoonful 
vanilla, and a few grains salt. Pour on enough 
strawberry juice to overflow the mold, cover with 
buttered paper and with the tin cover. Pack in 
equal parts of ice and salt and let stand three 
hours. 



STRAWBERRIES 163 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE 

Soak one teaspoonful of gelatin in a little cold 
water; when soft, dissolve in a little hot water. 
Mash and put through a vegetable strainer one box 
of strawberries sweetened to taste; put in bottom of 
covered mold. Whip, sweeten and flavor with one- 
half teaspoonful of vanilla, one cupful of cream 
and put on top of berries. Cover with paraffin 
paper before putting on cover. Pack in ice and salt 
and let stand about six hours. 

STRAWBERRY AND RHUBARB CONSERVE 

One quart of strawberries, one-half box of 
chopped seeded raisins, one pound of white sugar, 
one-fourth pound of nut meats chopped, pulp and 
grated rind of two oranges, two quarts of cut-up 
rhubarb. Put all together in a saucepan (save 
nuts) and cook slowly one-half hour, then add 
nuts. Mix well. Put in jelly glasses and cover with 
paraffin. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

4 pounds of strawberries 
2.y2 pounds of sugar 

Hull and mash the berries; add sugar, cook 
thirty minutes, stirring very often. When thick 
turn into jelly glasses and cover. 



164 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

2 cupfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
^ teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls lard 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- i cupful milk 

der 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add butter and 
lard and chop until well blended; add milk. When 
well mixed, spread evenly on a large greased pie tin. 
Bake ten or fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Heat 
a knife in hot water and split the cake; have ready 
the following filling: Sift one cupful of sugar 
through one quart of berries; let stand for some 
little time to melt the sugar. Take out one cupful 
of this for the sauce. Butter the shortcake and put 
half the berries and sugar between and the other 
half on top. Serve warm. 

Sauce: One cupful each of berries and sugar, 
one and one-half cupfuls cream or top of the bottle. 
Beat all together and serve with the shortcake. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP 

2 cupfuls strawberries 2 egg whites 

I cupful powdered sugar ji teaspoonful salt 
I tablespoon ful lemon juice 

Crush the berries ; add the sugar and lemon juice. 
Beat eggs until stii¥ and continue beating while 
adding strawberry mixture. 



XIX. GOOSEBERRIES 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM 

I pint gooseberries 3 egg yolks 

I cupful granulated sugar ^ cupful sugar 
^2 cupful water J4 teaspoonful orange ex- 

I pint milk tract 

whipped cream 

Stew the gooseberries and the cupful of sugar 
and water together till soft, then strain. Make a 
boiled custard of the milk, egg yolks, remaining 
sugar, and flavoring, stir in the gooseberries, chill, 
and serve very cold in a deep glass dish with the 
whipped cream piled on top. 

PRESERVED GOOSEBERRIES 

Twelve pounds of gooseberries, eight pounds of 
sugar, one quart of water. Let the sugar and water 
boil twenty minutes, stir in the fruit and cook gently 
until fruit is tender, stir as little as possible and 
do not boil. Seal while hot. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

Cap and stem five pounds of gooseberries, add 
four pounds of sugar, one pint of cider vinegar and 
two tablespoon fuls each of ground cinnamon and 

165 



166 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

cloves. Cook slowly for two hours, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent burning, turn into jelly glasses 
and seal with paraffin when cold. 

GOOSEBERRY AND CURRANT JAM 

To a gallon of gooseberries use one quart of 
red currant juice prepared as for jelly and six 
pounds of sugar. Make a syrup with the currant 
juice and the sugar ; then add the gooseberries that 
have been stemmed and tailed. Simmer slowly until 
the berries are a clear red color, then fill into glass 
jars. Boil the juice down to the jelly stage, and 
pour over the fruit and seal. 

BAR-LE-DUC GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS 

Take an equal quantity of gooseberries and cur- 
rants, and to each pound of the fruit allow an 
equal quantity of sugar. Add just enough water 
to the sugar to dissolve it, and boil to the consistency 
of honey; then add the currants and gooseberries 
and boil the juice to a thick jelly-like syrup, or until 
it coats the skimmer; pour into jelly-glasses or pint 
jars, and seal. Either currants or gooseberries may 
be used alone. 

GOOSEBERRY-PINEAPPLE 

Use one medium-sized pineapple to each two 
quarts of gooseberries and about four pounds of 
sugar. Carefully prepare the fruit. Add enough 
water to dissolve the su§:ar, boil to the consistency 



GOOSEBEREIES 167 

of honey, add the fruits and simmer slowly for 
several minutes. Boil the syrup until it thickens, 
and pour over the fruit. Fill the fruit into jars, 
and seal. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL 

Stew one quart of gooseberries in the smallest 
possible amount of water. When soft, rub them 
through a sieve to remove the skins. Press hard 
so that every bit of the pulp will go through. Add 
sugar to make as sweet as desired, and to every pint 
of pulp add very slowly one pint of cream or rich 
milk. Serve very cold with delicate cake. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (BOILED) 

Line a pudding dish with rich biscuit crust rolled 
one-half inch thick. Fill with uncooked goose- 
berries, liberally sprinkled with brown sugar, and 
cover with a top crust. Pinch the edges of the 
crusts well together, tie over it a floured cloth, and 
boil for two and a half hours in water which must 
not cease boiling from the moment the pudding 
is put in until it is done. Serve with sweet sauce. 

GOOSEBERRY ICE 

Cook one quart of gooseberries in one pint of 
water, sweeten to taste and strain. Add six lemons, 
two quarts of water, sugar enough to sweeten, and 
freeze slightly. Add the beaten whites of four eggs 
or one pint of cream and finish freezing. 



168 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

GOOSEBERRY CONSERVE 

Five pounds of gooseberries, four pounds 
sugar, one and one-half pounds of seedless raisins, 
juice and chopped rind of four oranges. Boil about 
forty-five minutes or until it is the consistency of 
jam. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING 

Cut the tops and stems from a quart of goose- 
berries, add one cupful of water and simmer until 
soft, then drain off the water and rub the berries 
through a colander. Put two cupfuls of the pulp 
in a double boiler, add the beaten yolks of four eggs 
and one cupful of sugar, stir until thick, remove 
from the fire, stir in the stiffly beaten whites and 
flavor with two tablespoonfuls of orange flower 
water. Serve cold. 

GOOSEBERRY SOUFFLE 

Boil one quart of fine gooseberries in just enough 
water to keep from burning. When soft, press 
through a sieve. Beat in the whites of five eggs 
which have been whipped to a stiff froth with half 
a pound of powdered sugar. Flavor with nutmeg 
and lemon. When very stifif, whip lightly in the 
stiffly whipped whites of three more eggs, and set 
the dish in a hot oven for five minutes before serv- 
ing. 



GOOSEBEREIES 169 

GOOSEBERRY BREAD PUDDING 

Stew one quart of gooseberries until soft; mash 
to a pulp, and add two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of bread crumbs, the yolks of four eggs and the 
whites of tw^o beaten separately, and a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. Then remove to the edge of the oven and 
spread over the top a meringue made with the 
whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar. Return to the oven again and brown 
very delicately with the oven door partly open. 

GOOSEBERRY SPONGE 

Soak one-half box of gelatin in half a cupful of 
cold water for one hour. Cook one quart of goose- 
berries in a very little water until soft. Press them 
through a sieve, and sweeten with half a cupful of 
sugar. Boil one cupful of sugar with one cupful 
of water for twenty minutes. Add the soaked gela- 
tin to the boiling syrup, and stir until it is all dis- 
solved. Remove from the fire and add the goose- 
berry pulp. Turn into a bowl and set this in a pan 
of cracked ice. Whip with an egg beater for five 
minutes or until it begins to thicken. Then beat 
in the stiffly whipped whites of four eggs, and whip 
until it is quite stiff. Pour into wetted molds and 
set on ice. When time to serve, turn out on a glass 
dish, and serve with whipped cream. 



170 FKUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

GOOSEBERRY MERINGUE 

Cut off the tops and stems from one quart of 
gooseberries, cook them in one cupful of water until 
tender. Press through a colander to remove the 
skins, place over boiling water, stir in two tea- 
spoonfuls of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar and the beaten yolks of three eggs and cook 
and stir until the eggs are set. Turn into a dish, 
cover with the whites of the eggs beaten until stiff 
and sweetened with three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and brown delicately in the oven. Serve cold. 

STEWED GOOSEBERRIES 

Cut the tops and stems from one quart of goose- 
berries, add one cupful of water and two cupfuls of 
sugar and cook very gently until soft. 



XX. ELDERBERRIES 

ELDERBERRY WITH APPLE FOR JELLY 

Cut up apple peelings and cores and cover them 
with hot water ; then remove the coarse stems from 
about one-third as many elderberries and place 
them on top of apples, stew and proceed as for any 
apple jelly. 

ELDER BLOSSOM WINE 

Allow a gallon of water to each quart of stripped 
flowers, and to each gallon of water three pounds of 
sugar. Make a syrup of the sugar and water, skim- 
ming well, and pour while boiling hot over the flow- 
ers. For each gallon of this liquid add the juice 
of one lemon and a heaping dessertspoonful ''home 
brewed" hop yeast, stirring thoroughly. Place in 
an earthen receptacle, cover w^ith a heavy cloth and 
let ferment three days. Strain and add the beaten 
white of one egg, stirring it well through the liquid. 
Allow for each gallon of wine a little over a pound 
of raisins, chopping them and placing them on the 
bottom of the cask, pour over the liquid, close the 
bung and in six months it will be found ready for 
use. 

171 



172 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

ELDERBERRY WINE 

Extract the juice; for every quart of juice add 
two quarts of water and three pounds of sugar. Put 
in boiler and bring to a boil, add sugar, let boil ten 
minutes, put in jugs. Fill every day until it stops 
working. Have enough left to refill as it works 
away. 



XXI. CRANBERRIES 

CRANBERRY MARMALADE. TO SERVE WITH 

MEATS 

Wash three quarts of cranberries, barely cover 
with water and cook until the berries are tender. 
Press through a sieve and add to this juice and 
pulp six pounds of warm sugar, two pounds of 
seeded and chopped raisins and four large, very 
clean oranges. The oranges should be minced fine, 
thus using skin and pulp, but the seeds should be 
picked out. Cook until thick and turn into glass 
jars. The orange skins must be cooked until thor- 
oughly tender. 

FROZEN CRANBERRIES 

4 cupfuls cranberries 2 cupfuls boiling water 

Yz cupful seeded raisins juice one orange 

2.y2. cupfuls sugar juice ^2 lemon 

Cut raisins in halves, add to cranberries with 
sugar and water and cook fifteen minutes, skim- 
ming when necessary. Add fruit-juices, rub 
through a puree-strainer, cool and freeze to a mush, 
using three parts of ice to one part of salt. 

173 



174 FRUITS AND THEIR .COOKERY 

SPICED CRANBERRIES 

2 quarts cranberries 2 tablespoonfuls ground 

Yz pint vinegar cinnamon 

Yz cupful water i tablespoonful ground 

6 cupfuls sugar cloves 

I tablespoonful allspice 

Combine the ingredients, boil gently for forty- 
five minutes, and put up as usual in jars or glasses. 

CRANBERRYADE 

One quart of cold water, one quart of cranber- 
ries, the juice of two lemons, the juice of two 
oranges and one and a half cupfuls of sugar. Cook 
the cranberries in water till they burst, add the 
sugar, boil one minute, cool, strain, add the fruit 
juice and dilute to the desired strength with cold 
water. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING 

Two cupfuls cranberries, one cupful seeded rai- 
sins, one cupful dry breadcrumbs, one and one-half 
cupfuls flour, three-quarters cupful honey, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one cupful beef suet, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, one-half cupful water. Cut the cran- 
berries in halves, put in bowl, add the crumbs, flour 
and suet, put through the food chopper or chop 
on board, add raisins, which have been floured, 
honey and salt. Mix all well together, add water 
enough to hold together. Brush mold with butter, 
put in mixture, cover and boil slowly one and one- 



CRANBEERIES 175 

half hours. Or the mold can be set in a pan of 
water, covered and put in oven two hours. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Pick over and wash four cupfuls of cranberries. 
Put them in a saucepan with two cupfuls of boiling 
water and boil twenty minutes. Rub through a 
sieve, add two cupfuls of sugar and cook five min- 
utes. Turn into a mold or jelly glasses. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Into a saucepan put one and a half cupfuls of 
cranberries,/ three-quarters of a cupful of sugar, 
one-half cupful of water. Cook ten minutes. Cool 
and bake in one crust with a rim and strips across. 

STEAMED CRANBERRY PUDDING 



Yz cupful butter 


1% tablespoon fuls baking 


I cupful sugar 


powder 


3 eggs 


^ cupful milk 


3!/^ cupfuls flour 


i>^ cupfuls cranberries 



Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and 
eggs well beaten. Mix and sift flour and baking 
powder and add alternately with milk to first mix- 
ture. Stir in the berries, turn into buttered mold, 
cover and steam three hours. Serve with cream. 

CRANBERRY PUFFS 

2 cupfuls cranberries i cupful milk 

2 cupfuls flour 4 teaspoonfuls baking 

4 tablespoonfuls shortening powder 

2 eggs I teaspoonful salt 



176 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add shortening and 
chop until mealy, add well-beaten eggs and cran- 
berries. Pour into pop-over bowls and steam an 
hour and a half. Serve with hard sauce. 



XXII. CURRANTS 

CURRANT PIE NO. i 

Two cupfuls of currants and one cupful of sugar. 
Cook one minute and add one teaspoonful of va- 
nilla. Pour into a deep pie plate with crust, sprinkle 
with flour and cover with top crust. 

BAR-LE-DUC CURRANT JELLY 

Clean and pick overripe currants, detaching the 
stems; to each pound of fruit allow a pound of 
granulated sugar. Pour the sugar on the currants, 
set in a cool place and let them stand over night. 
Next morning turn the berries carefully into a col- 
ander so as not to break them and let the juice 
drip from them. If the mixture is too thick to let 
the juice flow freely add a little water. Put the 
syrup over the fire and cook steadily for half an 
hour. Drop in the currants and cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes. Put up in jelly glasses or small 
jars. This is nearly as good as the imported bar-le- 
duc, and is better at the end of a few months than 
when first made. 

CURRANT PIE NO. 2 

2 eggs I cupful mashed currants 

I cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

I tablespoonful flour sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls water 

177 



178 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Fill a pie plate with crust with the following mix- 
ture : Beat the egg yolks with the sugar and add the 
flour, water and currants, which have been washed, 
stemmed and mashed. Mix thoroughly and bake 
until done. When cool cover with a meringue made 
by beating the whites of the eggs very stiff, adding 
gradually with the egg beater the sugar. Put in a 
moderate oven for about eight minutes. 

SPICED CURRANTS 

4 quarts fresh currants I tablespoonful liquid all- 

8 cupfuls sugar spice 

I pint vinegar, medium i tablespoonful liquid 

strength cloves 

I tablespoonful liquid cin- 
namon extract 

Mix together the sugar and vinegar and let boil 
for ten minutes. Then add the extracts. The cur- 
rants should be picked from the stem, washed and 
drained. Put about a half cupful at a time into the 
boiling syrup, then skim out and continue in this 
way until all are cooked. Remove any scum that 
may arise. After all the fruit is cooked, boil the 
syrup down until so rich and thick that it almost 
jellies, add the fruit again, let come to a boil, and 
seal in sterilized glasses. This is delicious with cold 
meats, and if diluted with crushed ice and ice water, 
makes a delicious currant drink. 

CURRANT ICE 

Boil two cupfuls of sugar and one cupful of 
water until it spins a thread, remove from the fire. 



CUEEANTS 179 

add three cupfuls of currant juice, strain, chill, turn 
into the freezer, pack in salt and ice, and partially 
freeze. Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff, fold 
in two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and add 
to the first mixture. Continue freezing until solid 
and let stand two hours to ripen. 

BLACK CURRANT PUDDING 

Make a biscuit batter and roll about one-fourth 
inch thick. Wash currants and shake, so just a 
little water is left on them. Place in baking dish, 
insert a cup or bowl (according to amount of fruit) 
in center of dish, add sugar to taste, lay on crust 
and bake. When done remove cup at table and the 
juice which has cooked into cup instead of over 
crust is like wine sauce. 

CURRANT CROQUETTES 

Pour one cupful of hot milk over two cupfuls 
stale cake crumbs, stir and cook over boiling water 
for five minutes, then add one-half cupful of cur- 
rants, one-half cupful of chopped nut meats and 
one-eighth teaspoonful of salt. Remove from the 
fire, add immediately the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla and spread 
on a buttered plate to cool. Shape into croquettes, 
roll in fine crumbs, dip in beaten egg, roll again in 
crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with sauce. 



180 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



CURRANT RELISH 

Five cupfuls of clear red currant juice, four cup- 
fuls of white sugar, pinch of salt, two cupfuls of 
stoned raisins, the grated yellow rinds of two 
oranges and the juice and pulp of the oranges. Boil 
about twenty minutes and skim carefully. If the 
raisins and juice look clear and rich it is cooked 
enough. Put in jars and seal. 

A CURRANT PUNCH 

Put in a saucepan one cupful of sugar, three 
quarts of water and two tumblers of red currant 
jelly. Let it boil until the jelly is thoroughly dis- 
solved, then add the juice of three oranges and 
three lemons. Strain into a punch bowl and add 
to the beverage a large piece of ice. Scatter over 
the top of the punch a handful of ripe red currants 
stripped from their stems. 

CURRANT MERINGUE PIE 

Mix one cupful sugar and one fourth cupful 
flour, add yolks of two eggs, slightly beaten and 
diluted with two tablespoonfuls water. Wash cur- 
rants, drain, and remove stems. Add one cupful to 
the first mixture, bake in one crust ; cool, and cover 
with 

Meringue: Beat the whites of two eggs until 
stiff. Continue beating while adding gradually two 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Add one-half 



CURRANTS 181 

tablespoonful lemon juice, spread on pie and bake 
fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 

RED CURRANT WINE 

One quart of water to each quart of juice. One 
pound of sugar to each quart of syrup. Crush the 
currants by rubbing them through a fine hair sieve, 
measure the juice, and add as much water; then 
pour over the sugar, allowing one pound to each 
quart; let this stand all night to dissolve; put into 
stone bottles, and as it works over refill the bottles 
for two or three days. Put it in a warm place for 
three weeks, and then lightly cork until it stops 
fermenting, then cork firmly, and watch that they 
do not fly; bottle in six months, taking care not to 
disturb the sediment at the bottom. The longer it 
stands before bottling the better. 



XXIII. GRAPES 



SPICED GRAPES 



Seven pounds of grapes, four pounds of sugar, 
one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of cin- 
namon and cloves, one teaspoonful allspice. Boil 
slowly two hours and put into jars. 

GRAPE CUP 

Either Malaga or Concord grapes may be used. 
Crush three pounds of grapes, add four whole 
cloves, a scant teacupful of sugar, the juice of four 
oranges with a little of the grated rind and a leaf 
or two of lemon verbena. Bring to boiling point, 
cool, and let it stand in the ice chest to ripen for 
two or three hours. When ready to use press 
through a sieve, stirring in the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs, a quart of unfermented grape juice 
and a pint of seltzer ; turn into a glass pitcher filled 
a quarter of its depth with pounded ice, and serve 
in tumblers. ^ 

MALAGA GRAPE SALAD 

Remove skin and seeds from Malaga grapes and 
add an equal quantity of English walnuts or pecans 
broken in pieces. Serve on lettuce leaves with 

182 



GRAPES 183 

French dressing and garnish with maraschino 
cherries. 

GRAPE FLUFF 

Soften half a tablespoonful of granulated gela- 
tin in a couple of tablespoonfuls of cold water: add 
half a cupful of boiling water, and dissolve. Add 
a quarter of a cupful of sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
and a quarter of a cupful of grape juice; strain, 
pour into a wet mold, and when firm force through 
a potato ricer. Serve very cold. 

GRAPE MERINGUE TART 

Make a rich pastry as for pie and line with it a 
deep tart or pudding form. Chill, brush with white 
of egg, prick with a fork and bake. Beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff, dry froth, add a cupful of 
sugar, vanilla to flavor and then gently incor- 
porate two cupfuls of grapes. Drop by the spoon- 
ful into the baked shell and bake in a slow oven 
until the meringue seems firm to the touch. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Ten pounds of grapes, three pounds of sugar, 
one cupful of water. Pick the grapes from the 
stems and wash clean; put them on the stove in a 
kettle with a little water, and cook until tender. 
Strain through a flannel bag. Do not squeeze it. 
Return juice to the kettle, add sugar and boil five 
minutes. Seal in glass jars when boiling hot. Slant 



184 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the jars when filling to prevent cracking. When 
serving add nearly the same amount of water. 

GRAPE CATSUP 

To five pounds of grapes take one pint of vine- 
gar, cook until it can be strained through a sieve. 
To the juice add two pounds of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of black pepper, one teaspoonful of cloves, one 
teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon. Cook down to about two quarts. 

GRAPE JUICE JELLY 

Soak an envelope of granulated gelatin in half 
a cupful of cold water for five minutes, then dis- 
solve it and three-quarters of a cupful of granu- 
lated sugar in two cupfuls of boiling water and a 
cupful of grape juice. Let cool somewhat, then 
add a cupful of skinned, seeded and halved Malaga 
grapes. Turn into a mold wet with ice water and 
stand in the refrigerator or very cold place over 
night. Serve with plain cream. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY 

Pick the grapes when just beginning to turn. 
Pick them over, wash and remove stems; put into 
preserving kettle. Heat to boiling point, mash and 
boil thirty minutes. Strain through a coarse 
strainer, then allow juice to drop through a double 
thickness of cheesecloth or a jelly bag. Measure, 
bring to boiling point and boil five minutes ; add an 



GRAPES 185 

equal measure of heated sugar, boil two minutes, 
skim and pour into glasses. Place in a sunny win- 
dow and let stand twenty-four hours. Cover and 
keep in a cool, dry place. 

GRAPE WINE 

Twenty pounds of grapes, ten pounds of sugar, 
six quarts of boiling water. Mash the grapes in a 
stone jar, pour on them the boiling water and let 
it stand three days, covering the jar to keep out 
dust. Strain the fruit and juice through cheese- 
cloth bag, return the juice to the jar, add the sugar 
and let it remain until fermentation has ceased. 
Take off the screen, strain the juice and bottle 
tightly, pouring melted sealing wax on the corks. 
Lay the bottles on their sides in a cool place. 

SPICED GRAPE JELLY 

Set the stemmed grapes in the oven until well 
heated through. The fruit should be well colored, 
but not ripe. Crush and strain the juice through 
double cheesecloth, measure and set aside a cup- 
ful of sugar for every pint of juice and add half a 
teaspoonful of cinnamon and cloves. Boil the juice 
rapidly twenty minutes, add the sugar hot and the 
spices. Boil ten minutes or until it jellies. 

GRAPE COCKTAILS 

Place in each glass three tablespoonfuls of the 
grape pulp, add one tablespoonful of diced sweet 



186 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

pear and cover with chilled grape juice. (Individ- 
ual portion.) 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

Pick over, wash, drain, and remove stems from 
grapes. Separate pulp from skins. Put pulp in 
preserving kettle, heat to boiling point and cook 
slowly until seeds separate from pulp, then rub 
through a hair sieve. Return to kettle with skins, 
add an equal measure of sugar and cook slowly 
thirty minutes, occasionally stirring to prevent 
burning. Put in a stone jar or tumblers. 

GRAPE SPONGE PUDDING 

Make grape juice by washing purple grapes, then 
mash or pulp them and cook slowly till soft, then 
strain. Take one cupful grape juice, one cupful 
water, boil and thicken with two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch and pinch of salt, wet with 
a little cold water, add one-half cupful sugar and 
stir constantly until thick. Let it cook (in double 
boiler) while beating the whites of two eggs to a 
stiff froth, then pour the hot mixture onto the 
eggs. Mix well. Serve cold, with custard sauce 
made with yolks of two eggs, two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one even tablespoonful of sifted 
pastry flour, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt and 
one pint of hot milk. Cook till thickened, stirring 
constantly. 



GRAPES 187 

GRAPE CRAB-APPLE PRESERVE 

To each two pounds of grapes use one pound of 
crab-apples. Stew the grapes and the crab-apples 
until soft, then pass through a sieve. To each pint 
of pulp add one cupful of sugar and one-half tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, if liked. Simmer slowly un- 
til of the right consistency for preserve or jam. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

One quart of milk, one pound of sugar, one cup- 
ful of grape juice, the juice of one lemon. Mix and 
freeze. 

GRAPE JUICE FRAPPE 

I quart of grape juice 2 large lemons 

I quart of water lYz cupfuls sugar 

juice of 4 oranges >^ pint cream 

Mix and pour into the can of the freezer. Churn 
until half frozen. Serve in punch cups. Decorate 
with whipped cream. The cream should be sweet- 
ened only a little if at all. This is sufficient for six- 
teen small glasses. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Pick grapes from stems and wash. Put grapes 
into boiling water. Let boil until soft and seeds 
are free; then strain and measure juice. Put juice 
to boil. Have the same amount of sugar in a deep 
bowl. Try a spoonful of juice and the same of 
sugar and see if it will jelly by stirring together. 



188 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

If so, pour juice on the sugar in dish and keep 
stirring. When the sugar is all dissolved it will 
thicken; then pour into glasses. All jellies can be 
made this way. If when you try the little sugar 
and juice together it does not jelly boil the juice a 
little longer and try again. 

MALAGA GRAPE TARTS 

Boil two cupfuls of water and one cupful of 
sugar five minutes, add one-half box of gelatin 
softened in one-half cupful of cold water, stir until 
dissolved, then add the grated rind of one lemon 
and the juice of three, let stand five minutes and 
strain. Partly fill baked pastry shells with Malaga 
grapes from which the skins and seeds have been 
removed, pour in the jelly when it begins to stiffen 
and place on ice until firm. 



XXIV. CHERRIES 



CHERRY WATER ICE 



Weigh the fruit and sugar; allow a pound and 
a half of loaf sugar to each pound of fruit, half 
of a pint of water and the white of one egg. Stone 
the cherries before weighing, place them in a pre- 
serving kettle on the back of the range, letting them 
stand until the juice starts freely, but do not boil. 
When ready turn into a jelly bag and press thor- 
oughly. Combine the sugar, water and whites of 
eggs, let these boil, skimming occasionally until 
rich and transparent. Remove from the fire, add 
the juice, pack in a freezer and treat the same as 
ice-cream. 

CHERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak one-quarter of a box of granulated gelatin 
in one-third of a cupful of cold water, then set over 
hot water until melted. Whip one pint of very 
heavy cream to a solid froth, keeping it very cold. 
Gradually and lightly stir into it one-third of a cup- 
ful of powdered sugar and the melted gelatin. As 
the mixture thickens add gradually one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, and two-thirds of a cupful of candied 
cherries which have been cut fine. Turn into in- 

189 



190 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

dividual molds or one large one and set away to 
stiffen. 

CHERRY SHORTCAKE 

Pit one quart of fine sweet cherries, cut them in 
halves with a silver knife, sprinkle generously with 
sugar and let stand one hour. Sift one pint of 
flour with one-half teaspoonful of salt and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, rub in one table- 
spoonful each of butter and lard, then add one tgg 
well beaten and mixed with enough milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out half an inch thick, spread 
with softened butter and bake in a biscuit pan in 
two layers. When done spread the prepared cher- 
ries between the layers and over the top. 

FROZEN CHERRY PUDDING 

3 cupfuls of milk i^ cupfuls of sugar 

Yz cupful of rice y^ teaspoonful of salt 

3 cupfuls of fresh cherries 

Put the milk in the top of a double boiler; add 
the well-washed rice, and steam for one hour and 
a half. Add the sugar and salt. Wash and pit 
the cherries ; chop fine, or put through a food chop- 
per. When the rice is cold add the cherries, and 
freeze at once. The amount of sugar must be 
guided by the kind of cherry used. 

CHERRY PIE 

I quart sour cherries few drops almond extract 

I cupful granulated sugar 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
few grains salt rich pie crust 



CHEREIES 191 

Mix together the sugar, salt, and flour, line a 
pie-plate with pastry, spread over half of the sugar, 
place on the cherries, which should be pitted, add 
extract, and sprinkle the rest of the sugar mixture 
over the cherries. Wet the lower crust around the 
edge, put the upper crust in place, press firmly to- 
gether, and then loosen from the pie-pan. Bake for 
ten minutes in a rather quick oven, then reduce 
heat and cook slowly for a half hour longer. 

CHERRY WINE 
Take four quarts of fruit, either sweet or sour, 
place in a mortar and slightly bruise without crush- 
ing the stones. To this add three quarts of water 
and let stand in a jar forty-eight hours. Strain, 
and to each four quarts of juice add three and one- 
half pounds of sugar if the fruit is acid, or three 
pounds if sweet. Fill into jugs, reserving a bottle 
of the liquid with which to keep the jars filled while 
fermenting. The openings of the jars should be 
kept covered with a thin cloth. After the fermen- 
tation ceases, cork tightly and keep in a cool place 
for three months; then drain off carefully and 
bottle. 

CRUSHED CHERRY CUP 

Cover three cupfuls of cherries with sugar and 
let them stand for two hours. Add to them the 
juice and pulp of two lemons, a shredded pineapple 
and one-half pound of chopped marshmallows. 
Sweeten again if necessary. Serve in sherbet 
glasses after the fruit has been well chilled. 



192 FRUITS AND THEIK COOKERY 



CHERRY CORDIAL 

Two quarts cherries, three pounds sugar, put into 
a gallon jug, which is then filled with cold water. 
Tie a piece of cheesecloth over top and put away 
for six months or more, then bottle. 

CHERRY PUFFS 

Yz cupful butter i cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 tablespoonfuls baking 

I cupful pitted cherries powder 

I ^gg 2 cupfuls flour 

Cream butter and sugar, and add the beaten ^^'g, 
then the milk and flour sifted with baking powder 
and last of all the cherries. This makes six large 
puffs. Put into buttered cups and steam one-half 
to three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a sauce. 

CHERRY GELATIN 

Soak one tablespoonful granulated gelatin in 
one-fourth cupful cold water, dissolve in one-fourth 
cupful boiling water, and add one and one-half cup- 
fuls cherries, which have been stoned, cooked and 
sweetened to taste, and one-half cupful juice. When 
mixture begins to thicken, add the stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs and a few grains salt. Turn 
into a mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. 
Serve with cream. 



CHERRIES 193 

CHERRY PUDDING NO. i 

Butter a mold and fill two-thirds full ripe cher- 
ries. Make a batter of one-quarter cupful butter, 
one-half cupful sugar, one well beaten egg, one-half 
cupful milk, one and one-half cupfuls sifted 
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder and a 
little salt. Beat until light, pour over cherries in 
mold, put on tight fitted cover and steam one and 
one-half hours. Serve with sauce made as follows: 
Cream one-third cupful of butter, one cupful pow- 
dered sugar, add beaten white of an egg and one- 
quarter cupful of strained cherry juice. 

CHERRY PUDDING NO. 2 

Beat one egg yolk until light, add one-third cup- 
ful sugar, beat, and add two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter. Mix,, and sift twice, one and one-fourth 
cupfuls flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder and 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Add alternately with 
one-half cupful milk to first mixture. Stir in one 
cupful "Cherries, stoned and cut in halves. Turn 
into a buttered and floured cake-pan and bake. 
Serve with two cupfuls hot stewed and stoned cher- 
ries, sweetened to taste and hard sauce. 

Hard sauce : Cream one-third cupful butter, add 
gradually one cupful powdered sugar, then carefully 
fold in one egg white, beaten stiff, and one-half cup 
beaten cream. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful 
vanilla. 



194 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



PICKLED CHERRIES 

Pour three cupfuls of vinegar into a sauce-pan, 
add one-half cupful of brown sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of whole cloves and twelve blades of mace, boil 
five minutes, cool and strain. Fill glass jars with 
three quarts of firm sour cherries, pour in the spiced 
vinegar and seal at once. Do not stone the cher- 
ries. 

SPICED CHERRIES 

I pound pitted cherries Yz teaspoonful whole cloves 

Yz cupful cider vinegar ^ teaspoonful whole cinna- 

Yz pound brown sugar mon 

Heat all but fruit to boiling point and drop in 
pitted cherries. Cook fifteen minutes, fill glasses, 
and pour over hot spiced syrup. Seal. 

CHERRY AND CURRANT JAM 

3 quarts red cherries sugar equal in measure to 

I quart currants the combined fruits 

Pit the cherries, stem the currants and mix thor- 
oughly with the sugar. Add one tablespoonful or 
more, according to the taste, of the cherry pit meats. 
Boil for fifteen or twenty minutes and pour into 
jelly glasses, leaving a few of the pits in each jar. 
This is excellent with steamed puddings. 

FROSTED CHERRIES 

Select firm, ripe cherries having the stems at- 
tached, drop them into the white of an ^^^ beaten 



CHEREIES 195 

to a foam, roll in powdered sugar and chill thor- 
oughly on ice. 

CHERRY DUFF 

4 cupfuls pitted cherries 4 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 cupfuls sugar der 

I teaspoonful vinegar I teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful butter ^ cupful milk 

2 cupfuls flour 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt; add butter; 
mix until mealy ; add milk. Put sugar, cherries and 
vinegar in bottom of buttered baking dish. Cover 
with flour mixture and steam forty-five minutes. 
Serve in dish in which it is cooked. 

CHERRY SAUCE 

iYt. cupfuls pitted cherries Yz glass currant jelly juice 
Yz cupful water and rind of Y lemon 

Yz cupful sugar i inch stick cinnamon 

Cook all ingredients until syrupy. Strain and 
serve. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES 

4 pounds cherries 
4 pounds sugar 

Wash cherries, remove stems and stones. Cover 
cherries with sugar, let stand two hours; then set 
on stove, and bring slowly to the boiling point. 
Cook until cherries are tender. Fill jars first with 
cherries, then with syrup. Seal. 



196 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 



CANNED CHERRIES 

4 pounds cherries 
i^ pounds sugar 

Place cherries and sugar in preserving kettle and 
let stand two hours. Cook until tender, fill steri- 
lized jars and seal. 

CHERRY CROQUETTES 

2 cupfuls scalded milk %. cupful cold milk 

54 cupful cornstarch yolks of 3 eggs 

% cupful flour y2 cupful maraschino cher- 

y2 cupful sugar ries cut in halves 

y^ teaspoonful salt 

Mix cornstarch, floury sugar and salt. Dilute 
with cold milk and add beaten yolks, then add 
gradually to scalded milk and cook fifteen minutes 
in double boiler. Add cherries, pour into a buttered 
shallow pan and cool. Turn on a board, cut in 
pieces, dip in flour, tgg and crumbs, fry in deep 
fat and drain. Serve with sauce. 

MARASCHINO SAUCE 

% cupful boiling water 54 cupful Maraschino cher- 

J^ cupful sugar ries 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch y^ cupful Maraschino syrup 
y2 tablespoonful butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add gradually to 
boiling water, stirring constantly. Boil five min- 
utes, and add cherries, syrup and butter. 



CHEREIES 197 

CHERRY SALAD 

Pit the cherries, leaving as near whole as possible. 
Take slices of canned pineapple and arrange on 
lettuce leaves, the cherries to be piled on the slices 
of pineapple. Pour a French dressing over and 
serve very cold. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND CHERRY DESSERT 

Arrange lady fingers or slices of plain cake on a 
dish with deep sides. Fill the center with cottage 
cheese to which has been added a pint jar of pre- 
served cherries drained dry. These should be ar- 
ranged as in a charlotte russe. 



INDEX 



Apple and Date Salad, 7 
And Suet Pudding, 3 
And Sweet Potato Scallop, 
Batter Pudding, 15 
Biscuit, Dixie, 6 
Cake, 3 
Cereal Pie, 9 
Charlotte, 16 
Chutney, 9 

Corn Meal Muffins, 6 
Dumpling No. i. Baked, 18 
Dumpling No. 2, Baked, 19 
Foam, 4 
Fritters, 2 
Ginger, 12 
Indian Pudding, 15 
Jam, Blackberry and, 140 
Jelly, 13 

Jelly, Raspberry and, 140 
Layer Cake, 8 
Marmalade, 12 
Meringue, 14 
Omelet, 5 
Pancakes, 7 
Pie, 2 

Pie, Dutch, i 

Preserves, Quince and, 53 
Preserves, Sweet, 53 
Rice Pudding, 7 
Salad, I 

Sandwich Filling, 5 
Sauce Cake, 8 
Sauce Shortcake, 4 
Scalloped, 17 
Souffle, 17 
Sponge, 19 
Tapioca, 13 

Toast, 9 / 

Water. 10 



Apples and Pineapple, Canned, 
II 

And Quinces, Canned, il 

Baked, 19 
5 Baked, with Mince Meat, 7 

Baked Bananas and, 115 

Canned, 12 

New England Baked, 19 

Preserved, 11 

With Ginger, Steamed, 18 
Apricot Ice, 57 

Ice for an Invalid, 57 

Marmalade, 59 

Marmalade, Orange and, 61 

Parfait, 57 

Preserve, Evaporated, 59 

Roll, 56 

Sauce, 55 

Sherbet, Dried, 56 

Souffle, 55 

Sponge, 58 
Apricots, Frozen, 55 

Rice with, 58 

B 

Banana and Date Pudding, 108 
And Pineapple Salad, 115 
And Rhubarb Betty Pudding, 

114 
Butter, 105 
Cake, III 
Compote, 108 
Cream, 104 
Croquettes, IIO 
Fluff, 106 
Fritters, 105 
Ice, 104 
Ice Cream, 109 
Omelet, 112 
Omelet (sweet), 113 

199 



200 



INDEX 



Pickle, 112 

Pie, io6 

Pudding No. I, lie 

Pudding No. 2, iii 

Pudding No. 3, iii 

Sandwiches, 114 

Souffle, IIS 

Splits, 114 

Sponge, 107 

Tapioca, 109 

With Sausage, 113 
Bananas and Apples, Baked, 115 

Baked, 104 

Fried, 105 

Rognons aux, 109 
Bar-le-Duc Currant Jelly, 177 

Gooseberries and Currant, 166 
Barberry Sauce, 120 
Batter, Fritter, 3 
Birds' Nests, 16 
Black Currant Pudding, 179 
Blackberry and Apple Jam, 142 

Bavarian Cream, 144 

Bread Pudding, 146 

Charlotte, 143 

Cornstarch JPudding, 142 

Custard, 143 

Gelatin, 143 

Jam, 142 

Jelly, 144 

Mousse, 146 

Pie, 145 

Pudding, 145 

Pudding, Baked, 145 

Sponge, 146 

Vinegar, 146 
Blanc Mange, Peach, 41 
Blueberries and Dumplings, 
Stowed, 128 

Canned, 132 

Spiced, 130 
Blueberry Bread Pudding, 129 

Custard Pie, 131 

Flapjacks, 132 

Gingerbread, Cream, 128 

Jam, 129 

Muffins No. I, 129 

Muffins No. 2, 129 

Pie with Meringue, 131 

Pudding, 131 



Pudding, Quick, 127 

Puffs, 132 

Shortcake, 130 
Boiled Custard, 68 

Dressing, i 
Bread Pudding, Blackberry, 146 

Blueberry, 129 

Gooseberry, 169 

Orange (single portion), 71 

Rhubarb, 124 
Brown Betty, 16 
Butter, Banana, 105 

Pear, 24 
Buttermilk Lemon Pie, 85 



Cake, Apple, 3 

Apple Layer, 8 

Apple Sauce, 8 

Banana, iii 
Cake Filling, Orange, 69 
Candied Orange Peel, 63 

Pears, 26 
Canned Apples, 12 

and Pineapple, 11 

and Quinces, 11 
Canned Blueberries, 132 

Cherries, 196 

Pear Dessert, 27 

Pears, 26 

Pears, Frozen, 26 

Raspberries, 140 
Canning Pineapples, 99 
Cantaloupe Cocktails, 117 
Cherries, Canned, 196 

Frosted, 194 

Pickled, 194 

Preserved, 195 

Spiced, 194 
Cherry and Currant Jam, 194 

Bavarian Cream, 189 

Cordial, 192 

Croquettes, 196 

Cup, Crushed, 191 

Duff, 195 

Gelatine, 192 

Pie, 190 

Pudding No. i, 193 

Pudding No. 2, 193 



INDEX 



201 



Pudding, Frozen, 190 

Puffs, 192 

Salad, 197 

Sauce, 195 

Shortcake, 190 

Water Ice, 189 

Wine, 191 
Chutney, Apple, 9 
Citron Preserve No. i, 119 

No. 2, 120 
Citron Melon Preserve, 119 
Cocktail, Peach, 28 

Pineapple, 97 
Cocktails, Cantaloupe, 117 

Grape, 185 

Strawberry, 159 

Watermelon, 117 
Compote, Banana, 108 

Of Pears, 24 
Conserve, Gooseberry, 168 

Peach, 33 

Pear, 24 

Pineapple, Strawberry and 
Cherry, 92 

Plum, 46 

Strawberry and Rhubarb, 163 

Watermelon, 117 
Cordial, Cherry, 192 

Orange Egg, 64 
Corn Meal Peach Pudding, 29 
Cottage Cheese and Cherry Des- 
sert, 197 
Cottage Pudding, Strawberry, 

157 
Crab-apple Jelly, 22 

Jelly, Spiced, 21 

Pie, 21 

Preserves, Grape and, 187 
Cranberries, Frozen, 173 

Spiced, 174 
Cranberry jelly, 175 

Marmalade to Serve with 
Meats, 173 

Pie, 175 

Pudding, 174 

Pudding, Steamed, 175 

Puffs, 175 
Cranberryade, 174 
Cream Blueberry Gingerbread, 
128 



Crushed Cherry Cup, 191 
Currant Bar-le-Duc, Gooseber- 
ries and, 166 

Croquettes, 179 

Dumplings, Raspberry and, 137 

Ice, 178 

Jam, Cherry and, 194 

Jam, Gooseberry and, 166 

Jelly Bar-le-Duc, 177 

Meringue Pie, 180 

Pie No. I, 177 

Pie No. 2, 177 

Pudding, Black, 179 

Punch, 180 

Relish, 180 

Wine, Red, 181 
Currants, Spiced, 178 
Custard, Baked, with Strawberry 
Sauce, 156 

Blackberry, 143 

Boiled, 68 

Frozen Pineapple, 92 

Orange, 68 

Orange and, 70 

Peach, 35 

Pineapple, 90 



Damsons, Preserved, 47 
Deep Peach Pie, 42 
Dixie Apple Biscuit, 6 
Dressing, Boiled, i 

French, 60 

Mayonnaise, 10 
Dried Apricot Sherbet, 56 
Dumpling, Baked Apple No. i, 
18 

Baked Apple No. 2, 19 

Peach, 40 
Dumplings, Raspberry and Cur- 
rant, 137 
Dutch Apple Pie, i 



Egg Sauce, 127 

Elder Blossom Wine, 171 



202 



INDEX 



Elderberry Wine, 172 
Elderberry with Apple for Jelly, 

171 
Evaporated Apricot Preserve, 59 



Filling, for Layer Cake, Straw- 
berry, 158 

Lemon Cocoanut Cream, 86 

Orange Cake, 69 
Flapjacks, Blueberry, 132 
French Dressing, 60 
Fried Apples and Onions, 14 

with Sausage, 14 
Fried Bananas, 105 
Fritter Batter, 3 
Fritters, Apple, 2 

Banana, 105 

Peach, 40 

Pineapple No. i, 97 

Pineapple No. 2, ^ 

Strawberry, 150 
Frosted Cherries, 194 
Frosting, Orange, 67 
Frozen Apricots, 55 

Cherry Pudding, 190 

Cranberries, 173 

Orange Pudding, 76 

Peach Roll, 36 

Pineapple Custard, 92 

Pineapple Pudding, 96 

Strawberry Cream, 149 

Strawberry Nectar, 151 

Watermelon, 118 
Fruit Jelly, 103 

Pudding, Louisville, 135 

Salad, 95 



Gingerbread, Cream Blueberry, 

128 
Golden Peach Pudding, 44 
Gooseberries aad Currant Bar- 
le-Duc, 166 
Preserved, 170 
Rhubarb and, 125 
Spiced, 165 
Stewed, 170 



Gooseberry and Currant Jam, 
166 

Bread Pudding, 169 

Conserve, 168 

Cream, 165 

Fool, 167 

Ice, 167 

Meringue, 170 

Pineapple, 166 

Pudding, 168 

Pudding (boiled), 167 

Souffle, 168 

Sponge, 169 
Grape-Crab-apple Preserve, 187 
Grape Catsup, 184 

Cocktails, 185 

Cup, 182 

Fluff, 183 

Jelly, 187 

Jelly (Green), 184 

Jelly (spiced), 185 

Juice, 183 

Juice Frappe, 187 

Juice Jelly, 184 

Marmalade, 186 

Meringue Tart, 183 

Salad, Malaga, 182 

Sherbet, 187 

Sponge Pudding, 186 

Tarts, Malaga, 188 

Wine, 185 
Grapefruit and Rice, 74 

Gelatine, 79 

Marmalade (from skins), 6^ 

Pie, 72 
Grapes, Spiced, 182 
Green Grape Jelly, 184 

H 

Hard Sauce, 15 

Hawaiian Pineapple Cream Pie, 

lOI 

Honey Quince Jelly, 54 
Hot Peach Pudding with Cold 
Sauce, 39 



Ice, Banana, 104 

Currant, 178 



INDEX 



203 



Gooseberry, 167 

Lemon, 85 

Pineapple, 97 

Raspberry, 133 

Strawberry, 148 

Strawberry and Macaroon, 162 
Ice Cream, Banana, 109 

Peach, 37 

Rhubarb, 125 
Iced Strawberry Fool, 160 
Individual Peach Pudding, 43 
Irish Moss Lemonade, 87 

J 

Jam, Blackberry, 142 

Blackberry and Apple, 142 

Blueberry, 129 

Cherry and Currant, 194 

Gooseberry and Currant, 166 

Plum, 49 

Rhubarb, 123 

Strawberry, 163 
Jelly, Apple, 13 

Bar-le-Duc Currant, 177 

Blackberry, 144 

Crab-apple, 22 

Cranberry, 175 

Elderberry with Apple for, 171 

Fruit, 103 

Grape, 187 

Grape Juice, 184 

Green Grape, 184 

Honey Quince, 54 

Lemon, 83 

Plum, 48 

Raspberry and Apple, 140 

Russe, 154 

Spiced Crab-apple, 21 

Spiced Grape, 185 

(With Banana Cream, Orange, 
78 

With Soft Custard, Pineapple, 
100 



Layer Cake, Apple, 8 
Lemon Butter, 83 
Cheese Pie, 82 



Cheesecakes, 82 

Cocoanut Cream Filling, 86 

Cream, 84 

Cream Sauce, 86 

Ice, 85 

Jelly, 83 

Pears, 84 

Pie No. I, 81 

Pie No. 2, 81 

Pie No. 3, 81 

Pudding, 82 

Pudding, Steamed, 87 

Raisin Pie, 86 

Sago, 85 

Sauce, 18 
Lemonade, 87 

Irish Moss, 87 
Louisville Fruit Pudding, 135 

M 

Malaga Grape Salad, 182 

Tarts, 188 
Maraschino Sauce, 196 
Marmalade, Apple, 12 

Apricot, 59 

Cranberry, To serve with 
Meats, 173 

Grape, 186 

Grapefruit (from skins), 63 

Orange, 64 

Orange Apricot, 61 

Orange and Grapefruit, 79 

Orange and Honey, 75 

Peach, 35 

Pear and Lemon, 27 

Pineapple and Orange, 91 

Pineapple and Rhubarb, 90 

Quince, 52 

Rhubarb, 124 

Rhubarb and Orange, 122 

Rhubarb and Pineapple, 122 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 10 
Meringue, Apple, 14 

Peach, 36 
Mince Meat, Baked Apples 

and, 7 
Muffins, Apple Corn Meal, 6 

Blueberry No. i, 129 

Blueberry No. 2, 129 



204 



INDEX 



N 



Nests of Rice with Raspberry 

Jam, 136 
New England Baked Apples, 19 



Omelet, Apple, 5 
Orange and Cocoanut, ^"7 

And Custard, 70 

And Date Salad, 78 

And Grapefruit Marmalade, 

79 

And Honey Marmalade, 75 

And Onion Salad, 60 

Apricot Marmalade, 61 

Bavarian Cream, y^y 

Bread Pudding (single por- 
tion), 71 

Cake Filling, 69 

Charlotte, 69 

Cream (Frozen), 6^ 

Custard, 68 

Custard Pie, 72 

Delight, 68 

Egg Cordial, 64 

Fluff, 70 

Frappe, 64 

Frosting, (i^ 

Jelly with Banana Cream, 78 

Marmalade, 64 

Marmalade Pudding, 75 

Marmalade, Rhubarb and, 122 

Nut Salad, ^z 

Omelet, 61 

Peel, Candied, 63 

Pudding, 71 

Pudding No. i, 65 

Pudding No. 2, 74 

Pudding, Frozen, y^y 

Pudding Sauce No. i, 60 

Pudding Sauce No. 2, 65 

Pudding Sauce No. 3, 66 

Pudding, Steamed, 72 

Puffs, 67 

Roly Poly, 65 

Sauce for Croquettes, yy 

Shortcake No. i, 66 



Shortcake No. 2, T^ 

Snow Pudding, (i2 

Souffle, 66 

Souffle Pudding, Baked, 69 

Sponge, 78 

Squares, 73 

Water Ice, 62 
Oranges with Cranberry Sauce, 

80 
Orangeade, 71 



Pancakes, Apple, 7 
Parfait, Pineapple, 94 

Peach, 28 
Paula's Baked Apples, 6 
Peach and Marshmallow Cream, 

31 
And Raisin Pudding, 43 
And Raspberry Trifle, 33 
And Tomato Salad, 33 
Bavarian Cream, 41 
Blanc Mange, 41 
Bread Pudding, 45 
Cobbler Pudding, 31 
Cocktail, 28 
Conserve, 33 
Croustades, 31 
Custard, 35 
Dumpling, 40 
Foam, 34 
Fritters, 40 
Ice Cream, Z7 
Loaf, 42 
Marmalade, 35 
Melba, 30 

Meringue No. i, 36 
Mold, 30 
Mousse, 37 
Omelet, 38 
Parfait, 28 
Pie, 42 
Pie, Deep, 42 
Pie, New, 29 
Popovers, 28 
Pudding, Corn Meal, 29 
Pudding, Golden, 44 
Pudding, Hot, with Cold 

Sauce, 39 



INDEX 



205 



Pudding, Individual, 43 

Pudding No. i, 30 

Pudding No. 2, 37 

Pudding No. 3, 39 

Pudding, Steamed, 45 

Rice Pudding, 44 

Roll, Frozen, 36 

Roly Poly, 32 

Sauce, 31 

Sponge, 44 

Surprise, 41 

Tapioca. 34 

Turnovers, 36 
Peaches and Cream, 38 

And Raisins, Stewed, 35 

And Rice, 39 

Baked, 33 

Spiced, 34 
Pear and Lemon Marmalade, 27 

Butter, 24 

Chips, 23 

Conserve, 24 

Dessert, Canned, 2,^ 

Preserve, Quince and, $1 

Trifle, 25 
Pears, Baked, 23 

Candied, 26 

Canned, 26 

Compote of, 24 

Frozen, Canned, 2^ 

Spiced, 22, 

With Chocolate Sauce, 25 
Pickled Cherries, 194 
Pie, A New Peach, 29 

Apple, 2 

Apple Cereal, 9 

Banana, 106 

Blackberry, 145 

Blueberry Custard, 131 

Blueberry with Meringue, 131 

Butermilk Lemon, 85 

Cherry, 190 

Crab-apple, 21 

Cranberry, 175 

Currant Meringue, 180 

Currant No. i, 177 

Currant No. 2, 177 

Deep Peach, 42 

Dutch Apple, I 

Grapefruit, 73 



Hawaiian Pineapple Cream, 

lOI 

Lemon Cheese, 82 
Lemon No. i, 81 
Lemon No. 2, 81 
Lemon No. 3, 81 
Lemon Raisin, 86 
Orange Custard, 'jz 
Peach, 42 
Pineapple, 102 
Pineapple Custard, 91 
Plum, 49 

Raspberry Cream, 134 
Rhubarb, 121 
Rhubarb Custard, 121 
Rhubarb Meringue, 126 
Spanish Quince, 50 
Strawberry, 160 
Pineapple and Cocoanut Dessert, 

lOI 

And Orange Marmalade, 91 

And Rhubarb Marmalade, 90 

Baked, 94 

Charlotte, 95 

Cocktail, 97 

Cream, 88 

Cream Pie, Hawaiian, lOi 

Custard, 90 

Custard, Frozen, 92 

Custard Pie, 91 

Delight, 100 

Fluff, 90 

Fritters No. i, 97 

Fritters No. 2, 98 

Ice, 97 

Jelly with Soft Custard, 100 

Marmalade, Rhubarb and, 

122 
Mold, 98 
Mousse, 91 
Parfait, 94 
Pie, 102 
Preserved, 91 
Pudding, Frozen, 96 
Punch, 93 
Salad, 88 

Salad, Banana and, 115 
Sherbet, 98 
Shortcake, 89 
Snow, 96 



206 



INDEX 



Sorbet, lOi 

Souffle, 93 

Sponge, 96 

Strawberries and, 152 

Strawberry and Cherry Con- 
serve, 92 

Tapioca, 89 

Tarts, 93 

Toast, 99 

Whip, 88 
Pineapples, Canning, 99 
Plum Charlotte, 46 

Conserve, 46 

Jam, 49 

Jelly, 48 

Pie, 49 
Plums in Batter, 47 

in Rice Border, 46 

Spiced, 48 

Sweet Pickled, 49 
Preserve, Citron Melon, 119 

Citron No. i, 119 

Citron No. 2, 120 

Grape Crab-apple, 187 

Quince, 52 

Quince and Pear, 51 

Watermelon, 118 
Preserved Apples, 11 

Cherries, 195 

Damsons, 47 

Evaporated Apricot, 59 

Gooseberries, 165 

Pineapple, 91 

Quinces, 53 

Strawberries, 148 
Preserves, Quince and Sweet 
Apple, 53 

Raspberry, 140 
Pudding, Apple Batter, 15 

Apple Indian, 15 

Apple Rice, 7 

Apple and Suet, 3 

Baked Blackberry, 145 

Baked Orange Souffle, 69 

Banana No. i, no 

Banana No. 2, iii 

Banana No. 3, in 

Banana and Rhubarb Betty, 
114 

Blackberry, 145 



Blackberry Bread, 146 
Blackberry Cornstarch, 142 
Black Currant, 179 
Blueberry, 131 
Blueberry Bread, 129 
Brown Betty, 16 
Cherry No. I, 193 
Cherry No. 2, 193 
Corn Meal Peach, 29 
Cranberry, 174 
Frozen Cherry, 190 
Frozen Orange, 76 
Frozen Pineapple, 96 
Golden Peach, 44 
Grape Sponge, 186 
Gooseberry, 168 
Gooseberry (boiled), 167 
Gooseberry Bread, 169 
Grape Sponge, 186 
Hot Peach, with Cold Sauce, 

39 
Individual Peach, 43 
Louisville Fruit, 135 
Lemon, 82 
Lemon, Steamed, 87 
Orange, 71 

Orange Marmalade, 75 
Orange No. i, 65 
Orange No. 2, 74 
Orange Snow, 62 
Peach Bread, 45 
Peach Cobbler, 31 
Peach No. i, 30 
Peach No. 2, 37 
Peach No. 3, 39 
Peach and Raisin, 43 
Peach Rice, 44 
Quick Blueberry, 127 
Raspberry No. i, 139 
Raspberry No. 2, 139 
Rhubarb Bread, 124 
Steamed Cranberry, 175 
Steamed Lemon, 87 
Steamed Orange, 72 
Steamed Peach, 45 
Strawberry, 154 
Strawberry Cottage, 157 
Strawberry Rice, 158 
Pudding Sauce, Orange No. I, 
6q 



INDEX 



207 



Orange No. 2, 65 

Orange No. 3, 66 
Punch, Currant, 180 
Pineapple, 93 



Q 



Quick Blueberry Pudding, 127 
Quince and Pear Preserve, 51 

And Sweet Apple Preserves, 
53 

Custards, 50 

Honey, 51 

Jelly, Honey, 54 

Marmalade, 52 

Pie, Spanish, 50 

Preserve, 52 
Quinces, Baked, 51 

Preserved, 53 



Raspberries, Canned, 140 
Raspberry and Apple Jelly, 
140 

And Currant Dumplings, 137 

Bar-le-Duc, 135 

Bombe Glace, 134 

Cream Pie, 134 

Ice, 133 

Jam, Nests of Rice with, 136 

Jelly Fluflf, 138 

Foam, 139 

Nectar, 138 

Parfait, 136 

Preserves, 140 

Pudding No. i, 139 

Pudding No. 2, 139 

Sherbet, 138 

Sherbet No. 2, 139 

Shrub, 141 

Souffle, 133 

Sponge, 137 

Syrup, 134 

Tapioca, 133 

Trifle, Peach and, 33 

Turnovers, 136 

Vinegar, 141 



Red Currant Wine, 181 
Rhubarb and Figs, 124 

And Gooseberries, 125 

And Orange Alarmalade, 122 

And Pineapple Marmalade, 
122 

Baked with Figs, 123 

Betty Pudding, Banana and, 
114 

Bread Pudding, 124 

Conserve, Strawberry and, 
163 

Custard Pie, 121 

Ice Cream, 125 

Jam, 123 

Marmalade, 124 

Meringue Pie, 126 

Pie, 121 

Stewed, 121 

Whip, 122 
Rice, Grapefruit and, 74 

with Apricots, 58 
Rognons aux Bananas, 109 
Roly Poly, Orange, 65 

Peach, 32 



Salad, Apple, i 

Apple and Date, 7 

Banana and Pineapple, 115 

Canned Pear and Orange, 
25 

Cherry, 197 

Fruit, 95 

Malaga Grape, 182 

Orange Nut, yz 

Orange and Date, 78 

Orange and Onion, 60 

Peach and Tomato, 33 

Pineapple, 88 

Strawberry No. i, 152 

Strawberry No. 2, 161 

Waldorf, 10 
Sandwich Filling, Apple, S 
Sandwiches, Banana, 114 
Sauce, Apricot, 55 

Barberry, 120 

Cherry, 195 



208 



INDEX 



Egg, 127 

Hard, 15 

Lemon, 18 

Lemon Cream, 86 

Maraschino, 196 

Orange, for Croquettes, TJ 

Orange Pudding No. i, 60 

Orange Pudding No. 2, 65 

Orange Pudding No. 3, ^ 

Peach, 31 

Spiced Lemon, 83 

Strawberry, 153 

Vanilla, 20 
Scalloped Apple, 17 
Sherbet, Dried Apricot, 56 

Grape, 187 

Pineapple, 98 

Raspberry No. i, 138 

Raspberry No. 2, 139 

Strawberry, 161 
Shortcake, Apple Sauce, 4 

Blueberry, 130 

Cherry, 190 

Orange No. i, ^ 

Orange No. 2, Tj 

Pineapple, 89 

Strawberry, 164 
Sorbet, Pineapple, lOi 

Strawberry, 155 
Spanish Quince Pie, 50 
Spiced Blueberries, 130 

Cherries, 194 

Crab-apple Jelly, 21 

Cranberries, 174 

Currants, 178 

Gooseberries, 165 

Grape Jelly, 185 

Grapes, 182 

Lemon Sauce, 83 

Peaches, 34 

Pears, 23 

Plums, 48 
Steamed Apples with Ginger, 
18 

Cranberry Pudding, 175 

Lemon Pudding, 87 

Orange Pudding, ^2 

Peach Pudding, 45 
Stewed Apples and Raisins, 
14 



Blueberries and Dumplings, 

128 
Gooseberries, 170 
Peaches and Raisins, 35 
Rhubarb, 121 
Strawberry and Bonny Clabber, 

157 
And Macaroon Ice, 162 
And Rhubarb Conserve, 163 
Bavarian Cream, 156 
Cocktails, 159 
Cottage Pudding, 157 
Cream, Frozen, 149 
Filling for Layer Cake, 158 
Fluff No. I, 149 
Fluff No. 2, 162 
Fool, Iced, 160 
Fritters, 150 
Ice, 148 
Jam, 163 
Junket, 149 
Meringue, 161 
Mousse, 163 
Nectar, Frozen, 151 
Nests, 153 
Omelet, 159 
Pie, 160 
Pudding, 154 
Rice Pudding, 158 
Roll, ISO 
Salad No. i, 152 
Salad No. 2, 161 
Sauce, 153 
Sauce, Baked Custard with, 

156 
Sherbet, 161 
Shortcake, 164 
Sorbet, 155 
Souffle, 148 
Sponge, 159 
Syrup, 155 
Tapioca, 152 
Trifle, 151 
"Whip, 164 
Strawberryade, 154 
Strawberries a la Frangaise, 160 
And Pineapple, 152 
Preserved, 148 
Preserved (without cooking), 

160 



INDEX 



209 



Sweet Pickled Plums, 49 
Watermelon Rind, 117 

Sweet Potato Scallop, Apple 
and, 5 

Syrup, Raspberry, 134 
Strawberry, 155 



Tapioca, Apple, 13 

Banana, 109 

Peach, 34 

Pineapple, 89 

Raspberry, 133 

Strawberry, 152 
Tart, Grape Meringue, 183 
Tarts, Malaga Grape, 188 

Pineapple, 93 
Toast, Apple, 9 

Pineapple, 99 



Vanilla Sauce, 20 
Vinegar, Blackberry, 147 
Raspberry, 141 

W 

Waldorf Salad, 10 
Water Ice, Cherry, 189 

Orange, 62 
Watermelon Cocktails, 117 

Conserve, 117 

Frozen, 118 

Preserve, 118 

Rind, Sweet Pickled, 117 
Wine, Cherry, 191 

Elder Blossom, 171 

Elderberry, 172 

Grape, 185 

Red Currant, 181 




Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
bock should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



^^.■'i'V^-\'i'i^^^3(^M 



,i',t^r-ll\:^it.'4 



'Cyi}'^.--, "ji-" 1,'t ■!?'svj>i' ^y 



%^. 



■Ker 







TX 



Cornell University Library 
TX 811.N4 

Fruits and their coolcery, 



3 1924 000 531 800 




HOTEL ADMINISTRATION 
LIBRARY 

AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY 

THE GIFT OF 

Mr. & Mrs. Carl A. Rietz 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000531800 



FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



FRUITS 

AND THEIR COOKERY 

BY 
HARRIET S. NELSON 




) HOTEL ADf^1IN!!'.WiON 



12 JUL: 
LIBRAR 



;69 



NEW YORK 

E. P. BUTTON &• COMPANY 

681 FIFTH AVENUE 



IX 
A/f 



COPYKIGHT, I92I, 

BY E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY 



All Rights Reserved 



/J83S 



Printed In the TTnlted States of America 



FOREWORD 

Physicians of the present day place strong 
emphasis upon the value of fruits judiciously used 
as a part of the daily diet. This volume has been 
prepared for the purpose of suggesting to house- 
keepers various ways of supplying this recognized 

need. 

Harriet S. Nelson. 



CONTENTS 

I-APPLES 

Dutch Apple Pie — Apple Salad — Boiled Dressing — Apple Pie 
— Apple Fritters — Fritter Batter — Apple Cake — ^Apple 
and Suet Pudding — ^Apple Sauce Shortcake — Apple Foam 
— Apple Omelet — Apple and Sweet Potato Scallop — Ap- 
ple Sandwich Filling — Dixie Apple Biscuit — Paula's 
Baked Apples — Apple Corn Meal Muffins — Apple Pan- 
cakes — Apple and Date Salad — Baked Apples and Mince 
Meat — Apple Rice Pudding — Apple Sauce Cake — Apple 
Layer Cake — Apple Toast — Apple Chutney — Apple Cereal 
Pie — Waldorf Salad — Mayonnaise Dressing — ^Apple Wa- 
ter — Preserved Apples — ^^Canned Apples and Quinces — 
Canned Apples and Pinc;apple — Canned Apples — ^Apple 
Ginger — ^Apple Marmalade — Apple Jelly — ^Apple Tapioca 
— Apple Meringue — Fried Apples and Onions — Fried 
Apples with Sausage — Stewed Apples and Raisins — ^Apple 
Indian Pudding — Apple Batter Pudding — Hard Sauce — 
Apple Charlotte — Brown Betty — Birds' Nests — Scalloped 
Apple — Apple Souffle — Steamed Apples with Ginger — 
Baked Apple Dumpling No. i — Lemon Sauce — Baked 
Apples — Baked Apple Dumplings No. 2 — New England 
Baked Apples — Apple Sponge — Vanilla Sauce . . . 1-20 

II— CRAB-APPLES 
Crab-apple Pie — Spiced Crab-apple Jelly — Crab-apple Jelly . 21-22 

III— PEARS 

Pear Chips — Spiced Pears — Baked Pears — Pear Conserve — 
Pear Butter — Compote of Pears — Canned Pear and 
Orange Salad— Pear Trifle — Pears with Chocolate Sauce 
— Canned Pears — Canned Pears Frozen— Candied Pears 
—Pear and Lemon Marmalade— Canned Pear Dessert 23-27 

IV— PEACHES 

Peach Cocktail— Peach Popovers— Peach Parfait— A New 
Peach Pie — Corn Meal Peach Pudding— Peach Melba— 
Peach Mold— Peach Pudding No. i— Peach Croustades 



viii CONTENTS 

PAGES 

— Peach Sauce — Peach Cobbler — Peach and Marshraal- 
low Cream — Peach Roly Poly — Peach and Tomato Salad 
— Baked Peaches — Peach and Raspberry Trifle — Peach 
Conserve — Spiced Peaches — Peach Tapioca — Peach Foam 
— Stewed Peaches and Raisins — Peach Custard — Peach 
Marmalade — Peach Turnovers — Peach Meringue No. I 
— Frozen Peach Roll — Peach Ice Cream — Peach Pudding 
No. 2 — Peach Mousse — Peaches and Cream — Peach 
Omelet — Hot Peach Pudding with Cold Sauce — Peaches 
and Rice — Peach Pudding No. 3 — Peach Fritters — Peach 
Dumpling — Peach Bavarian Cream — Peach Surprise — 
Peach Blanc Mange — Peach Loaf — Peach Pie — Deep 
Peach Pie — Peach and Raisin Pudding — Individual Peach 
Pudding — Peach Rice Pudding — Peach Sponge — Golden 
Peach Pudding — Peach Bread Pudding — Peach Steamed 
Pudding 28-45 

V— PLUMS 

Plums in Rice Border — Plum Conserve — Plum Charlotte — 
Plums in Batter — Preserved Damsons — Spiced Plums — 
Plum Jelly — Plum Jam — Plum Pie — Sweet Picked Plums 46-49 

VI— QUINCES 

Quince Custards — Spanish Quince Pie^Quince Honey — Baked 
Quinces — Quince and Pear Preserve — Quince Preserve — 
Quince Marmalade — Preserved Quinces — Quince and 
Sweet Apple Preserves — ^Honey Quince Jelly .... 50-54 

VII— APRICOTS 

Frozen Apricots — Apricot Souffle — Apricot Sauce — Apricot 
Roll — Dried Apricot Sherbet — Apricot Parfait — Apricot 
Ice — Apricot Ice for an Invalid — Apricot Sponge — Rice 
with Apricots — Evaporated Apricot Preserve — Apricot 
Marmalade 55-59 

VIII— ORANGES & GRAPEFRUIT 

Orange and Onion Salad — French Dressing — Orange Pudding 
Sauce No. i — Orange Apricot Marmalade — Orange Omelet 
— Orange Snow Pudding — Orange Water Ice — How to 
Serve an Orange to an Invalid — ^Candied Orange Peel — 
Grape Fruit Marmalade (From Skins) — Orange Marma- 
lade — Orange Frappe — Orange Egg Cordial — Orange 
Pudding No. I — Orange Roly Poly — Orange Pudding 
No. 2 — Orange Souffle — Orange Shortcake No. i — Orange 
Pudding Sauce No. 3 — Orange and Cocoanut — Orange 



CONTENTS ix 

PAGES 
Puffs — Orange Frosting — ^Orange Cream (Frozen) — 
Orange Custard — Boiled Custard — Orange Delight — 
Orange Charlotte — Orange Cake Filling — Baked Orange 
Souffle Pudding — Orange and Custard — Orange Fluff — 
Orangeade — Orange Bread Pudding — Delicious Orange 
Pudding — Steamed Orange Pudding— Orange Custard 
Pie — Orange Squares — Orange Nut Salad — Grapefruit 
Pie — Orange Pudding No. 2 — Grapefruit and Rice — 
Orange Marmalade Pudding — Orange and Honey Mar- 
malade — Frozen Orange Pudding — Orange Bavarian 
Cream — Orange Shortcsdce No. 2 — Orange Sauce for Cro- 
quettes — Orange and Date Salad — Orange Sponge — Orange 
Jelly with Banana Cream — Grapefruit Gelatine — Orange 
and Grapefruit Marmalade— Oranges with Cranberry 
Sauce 60-80 

IX— LEMONS 

Lemon Pie No. i — Lemon Pie No. 2 — Lemon Pie No. 3 — Lemon 
Cheese Pie — Lemon Pudding — Lemon Cheesecakes — 
Lemon Butter — Spiced Lemon Sauce — Lemon Jelly — 
Lemon Pears — Lemon Cream — Lemon Sago — Lemon Ice 
— Buttermilk Lemon Pie — Lemon Raisin Pie — Lemon 
Cream Sauce — Lemon Cocoanut Cream Filling — Steamed 
Lemon Pudding — Lemonade — Irish Moss Lemonade . 81-87 

X— PINEAPPLE 

Pineapple Cream— Pineapple Whip— Pineapple Salad— Pine- 
apple Tapioca— Pineapple Shortcake— Pineapple Fluff— 
Pineaple and Rhubarb Marmalade— Pineapple Custard- 
Pineapple Custard Pie— Pineapple Mousse— Preserved 
Pineapple — Pineapple and Orange Marmalade— Pineapple, 
Strawberry and Cherry Conserve— Frozen Pineapple Cus- 
tard—Pineapple Tarts— Pineapple Punch— Pineapple Souf- 
fle—Pineapple Parfait— Baked Pineapple— Pineapple Char- 
lotte—Fruit Salad— Pineapple Snow— Pineapple Sponge 
—Frozen Pineapple Pudding— Pineapple Ice— Pineapple 
Cocktail— Pineapple Fritters No. i— Pineapple Fritters 
No. 2— Pineapple Sherbet— Pineapple Mold— Canning 
Pineapples— Pineapple Toast— Pineapple Jelly with Soft 
Custard— Pineapple Delight— Pineapple Sorbet— Pme- 
apple and Cocoanut Dessert— Hawaiian Pineapple Cream 
Pie— Pineapple Pie— Fruit Jelly 88-103 

XI— BANANAS 

Banana Cream— Baked Bananas— Banana Ice— Banana Fritters 
— Fried Bananas— Banana Butter— Banana Pie— Banana 
Fluff— Banana Sponge— Junket and Bananas— Banana and 



X CONTENTS 

PAGES 

Date Pudding — Banana Compote — Banana Ice Cream — 
Banana Tapioca — Rognons Aux Bananas — Banana Cro- 
quettes — Banana Pudding No. i — Banana Pudding No. 2 
— Banana Pudding No. 3 — Banana Cake — Banana Pickle 
—Banana Omelet — Banana Omelet (Sweet) — Banana 
with Sausage — Banana and Rhubarb Betty— Banana Sand- 
wiches — Banana Splits — Banana Souflfle — Banana and 
Pineapple Salad — Baked Bananas and Apples . . . 104-116 

XII— WATERMELONS 

Watermelon Cocktails — Cantaloupe Cocktails — Watermelon 
Conserve — Sweet Pickle Watermelon Rind — Frozen Wa- 
termelon — Watermelon Preserve 117-118 

XIII— CITRON MELON 

Citron Melon Preserve — Citron Preserve No. i — Citron Pre- 
serve No. 2 — Barberry Sauce 119-120 

XIV— RHUBARB 

Rhubarb Pie— Rhubarb Custard Pie— Rhubarb Stewed— Rhu- 
barb and Orange Marmalade — Rhubarb Whip — Rhubarb 
and Pineapple Marmalade— Rhubarb Baked with Figs — 
Rhubarb Bread Pudding— Rhubarb Marmalade— Rhubarb 
and Figs— Rhubarb and Gooseberries — Rhubarb Ice- 
Cream — Rhubarb Meringue Pie 121-126 

XV— BLUEBERRIES 

Quick Blueberry Pudding— Egg Sauce— Cream Blueberry Gin- 
gerbread — Stewed Blueberries and Dumplings — Blueberry 
Jam— Blueberry Bread Pudding— Blueberry Muffins No. 
I— Blueberry Muffins No. 2— Spiced Blueberries— Blue- 
berry Shortcake— Blueberry Pie with Meringue— Blue- 
berry Custard Pi^Blueberry Pudding— Blueberry Puffs 
— Canned Blueberries — Blueberry Flapjacks . . . 127-132 

XVI— RASPBERRIES 

Raspberry Souffle— Raspberry Tapioca— Raspberry Ice— Rasp- 
berry Bombe Glace— Raspberry Sirup— Raspberry Cream 
Pie— Raspberry Bar-le-Duc— Louisville Fruit Pudding- 
Nests of Rice with Raspberry Jam— Raspberry Turnovers 
—Raspberry Parfait— Raspberry and Currant Dumplings 
—Raspberry Sponge— Raspberry Jelly Fluff— Raspberry 
Nectar— Raspberry Sherbet No. i— Raspberry Pudding 
No. I— Raspberry Foam— Raspberry Pudding No. 2— 
Raspberry Sherbet No. 2— Raspberry and Apple Jelly— 



CONTENTS xi 

PAGES 

Raspberry Preserves— Canned Raspberries— Raspberry 
Vinegar— Raspberry Shrub 133-141 

XVII— BLACKBERRIES 

Blackberry Jam— Blackberry and Apple Jam— Blackberry Corn- 
starch — Blackberry Charlotte — Blackberry Custard — 
Blackberry Gelatine— Blackberry Jelly— Blackberry Ba- 
varian Cream— Blackberry Pie— Blackberry Pudding- 
Baked Blackberry Pudding— Blackberry Bread Pudding- 
Blackberry Mousse— Blackberry Sponge — Blackberry Vin- 
egar 142-147 

XVIII— STRAWBERRIES 

Preserved Strawberries — Strawberry Souffle — Strawberry Ice 
— Frozen Strawberry Cream — Strawberry Fluff No. i — 
Strawberry Junket — Strawberry Fritters — Strawberry Roll 
— Strawberry Trifle — Frozen Strawberry Nectar — Straw- 
berry Salad No. i — Strawberries and Pineapples — Straw- 
berry Tapioca — Strawberry Sauce— Strawberry Nests — 
Jelly Russe — Strawberryade — Strawberry Pudding — 
Strawberry Sirup — Strawberry Sorbet — Baked Custard 
with Strawberry Sauce — ^Strawberry Bavarian Cream — 
Strawberry Cottage Pudding — Strawberries and Bonny 
Clabber — Strawberry Rice — Strawberry Filling for Layer 
Cake — Strawberry Sponge — Strawberry Omelet — Straw- 
berry Cocktails — Iced Strawberry Fool — Strawberries a 
la Francaise — Strawberries Preserved Without Cooking 
—Strawberry Pie — Strawberry Meringue — Strawberry 
Salad No. 2 — Strawberry Sherbet — Strawberry Fluff No. 
2 — Strawberry and Macaroon Ice — Strawberry Mousse — 
Strawberry and Rhubarb Conserve — Strawberry Jam — 
Strawberry Shortcake — Strawberry Whip .... 14&-164 

XIX— GOOSEBERRIES 

Gooseberry Cream — Preserved Gooseberries — Spiced Goose- 
berries — Gooseberry and Currant Jam — Bar-Le-Duc 
Gooseberries and Currant — Gooseberry-Pineapple — Goose- 
berry Fool — Gooseberry Pudding (boiled)— Gooseberry 
Ice — Gooseberry Conserve — Gooseberry Pudding — Goose- 
berry Souffle — Gooseberry Bread Pudding — Gooseberry 
Sponge — Gooseberry Meringue — Stewed Gooseberries 165-170 

XX— ELDERBERRIES 

Elderberry with Apple for Jelly— Elder Blossom Wine— Elder- 
berry Wine 171-172 



xii CONTENTS 

XXI— CRANBERRIES paces 

Cranberry Marmalade. To Serve with Meats— Frozen Cran- 
berries — Spiced Cranberries — Cranberry Ade — Cranberry 
Pudding — Cranberry Jelly — Cranberry Pie — Steamed 
Cranberry Pudding — Cranberry Puffs 173-176 

XXII— CURRANTS 

Currant Pie No. i— Bar-Le-Duc Currant Jelly— Ciu-rant Pie 
No. 2 — Spiced Currants — Currant Ice — Black Currant 
Pudding — Currant Croquettes — Currant Relish — A Cur- 
rant Punch— Currant Meringue Pie— Red Currant Wine 177-181 

XXIII— GRAPES 

Spiced Grapes — Grape Cup — Malaga Grape Salad — Grape Fluflf 
— Grape Meringue Tart — Grape Juice — Grape Catsup — 
Grape Juice Jelly — Green Grape Jelly — Grape Wine — 
Spiced Grape Jelly — Grape Cocktails — Grape Marmalade 
— Grape Sponge Pudding — Grape Crabapple Preserve — 
Grape Sherbet — Grape Juice Frappe — Grape Jelly — Ma- 
laga Grape Tarts i8>-i88 

XXIV— CHERRIES 

Cherry Water Ice — Cherry Bavarian Cream — Cherry Shortcake 
— Frozen Cherry Pudding — Cherry Pie — Cherry Wine — 
Crushed Cherry Cup — Cherry Cordial — Cherry Puffs — 
Cherry Gelatine — Cherry Pudding No. I — Cherry Pudding 
No. 2 — Pickled Cherries — Spiced Cherries — Cherry and 
Currant Jam — Frosted Cherries — Cherry Duff — Cherry 
Sauce — Preserved Cherries — ^Canned Cherries — Cherry 
Croquettes — Maraschino Sauce — Cherry Salad — Cottage 
Cheese and Cherry Dessert 18^197 



FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



I. APPLES 

DUTCH APPLE PIE 

3 pints sweet milk pinch of salt 

2 eggs 2 quarts sweet apples 

2 tablespoonfuls flour sugar to taste and nutmeg 

Pare, core and slice the apples and cook until 
tender ; then mash until fine. Add the milk and the 
eggs well beaten. Mix the flour until smooth with 
a little of the milk. Mix all together and sweeten 
to taste. Flavor with nutmeg as desired. Line a 
pie plate with rich pie crust and fill with the 
mixture, baking as for custard pie. 

APPLE SALAD 

Scoop out the center of eight red apples with a 
vegetable scoop. Mix with equal parts of finely- 
chopped celery and boiled dressing. Fill apple shells 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

BOILED DRESSING 

J^i teaspoonful mustard ^ cupful milk 

J4 teaspoonful salt yolk of i egg 

2 teaspoonfuls flour 2 teaspoonfuls oil 

I teaspoonful sugar j4 cupful hot vinegar 



2 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Mix dry ingredients in a saucepan, add the 
yolk of the egg, oil and milk. Stir the mixture over 
hot water until it begins to thicken, then stir in the 
vinegar, a few drops at a time. 

APPLE PIE 

Pastry: 

ij^ cupfuls pastry }i teaspoonful baking pow- 

flour der 

J4 teaspoonful salt Vs cupful shortening 

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder. 
With the tips of the fingers work in the shortening, 
then use a little ice water to mix, use a silver knife 
to do this and turn it out on a well floured board. 
Pat it out with a rolling pin and roll into a rect- 
angular sheet. Have ready about two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter beaten to a cream, spread part of 
this over half the paste and fold the other half over 
the butter. Use at once or wrap in waxed paper 
and set in the icebox until next day. 

Apples : Pare, core and slice the apples. Fill the 
dish, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and bits of but- 
ter. Wet the edge of lower crust, cover with upper 
crust and press edges together. Bake forty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Pare and core apples, cut in round slices. For 
each eight apples, mix one-fourth cupful of sugar 
and four tablespoon fuls lemon juice. Let apples 



APPLES 3 

stand in this mixture for one hour. Dip in fritter 
batter, fry in hot fat, drain on brown paper, sprinkle 
with susrar. 



FRITTER BATTER 

1 cupful flour grated rind of a lemon 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 eggs 

Yz teaspoonful salt y^ cupful milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add beaten yolks, 
lemon rind and milk. Beat, cut and fold in the 
beaten whites of eggs. 

APPLE CAKE 

2 cupfuls flour 2 cupfuls sliced 

1 teaspoonful salt apples 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- i cupful milk 

der 2 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add beaten 
yolks, butter and milk. Beat well, cut and fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites. Spread mixture one-half 
inch thick on buttered pans. Lay sliced apples on 
top, sprinkle with sugar; bake in hot oven thirty 
minutes. 

APPLE AND SUET PUDDING 

2 cupfuls chopped apples i cupful molasses 
2 cupfuls chopped raisins y% teaspoonful salt 
I cupful sour milk i cupful suet 

I teaspoonful soda flour to make stiff batter 



4 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Add soda to the milk, add the ingredients a little 
at a time, mix well. Boil in a pudding bag about 
two hours, 

APPLE SAUCE SHORTCAKE 

2 cupfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
Yz teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls lard 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- i cupful milk 

der 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add butter and 
lard and chop or mix with finger tips until thor- 
oughly blended. Add milk. When thoroughly 
mixed, divide in halves, put each half into a round, 
buttered cake tin. Wet knife and spread smooth. 
Bake ten to twenty minutes in hot oven. Split each 
cake and fill with hot apple sauce. Serve with 
cream. 

APPLE FOAM 

% cupful apple sauce 2 tablespoonfuls finely 

2 egg whites chopped preserved 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered ginger 

sugar 

Beat the whites of egg until very stiff, add the 
sugar a little at a time, then add the apple gradu- 
ally, beating well. Fold in the ginger, turn into 
glasses, chill on ice and serve. It will fall if it 
stands too long. 



APPLES 5 

APPLE OMELET 

6 apples 4 eggs 

I tablespoonful butter J^ teaspoonful of rose ex- 

6 tablespoonfuls sugar tract 

Pare, core and cut the apples in small pieces. 
Stew until soft. Beat while hot until very smooth. 
Add the butter, sugar and flavoring. When cold 
add the well beaten yolks of the eggs, then the 
stiffly beaten whites. Put into a well greased bak- 
ing dish and bake in a moderate oven until a light 
brown. 

APPLE AND SWEET POTATO SCALLOP 

Peel and cut boiled sweet potatoes into quarter 
inch slices. Butter a baking dish, put in a layer 
of the potatoes sprinkled with sugar and a grating 
of nutmeg, then dot with bits of butter. Cover with 
a layer of apple sauce. Repeat until the dish is full, 
having the top layer potato. Cover with a generous 
amount of sugar, sprinkled with buttered crumbs 
and bake an hour in a moderate oven. 

APPLE SANDWICH FILLING 

Peel and grate two tart apples and mix with two 
cupfuls of fresh cottage cheese and four table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream. Season with salt and 
paprika. Mix well and spread between thin slices 
of buttered brown bread. 



e FEUITS AND THEIE COOKEEY 

DIXIE APPLE BISCUIT 

I pint light bread sponge Graham flour 

J4 cupful molasses i>4 cupfuls chopped apples 

1 tablespoonful shortening brown sugar 

Add molasses and shortening to bread sponge 
and sufficient Graham flour to make a soft dough. 
Beat vigorously, add apples and mix well. Put 
into muffin pans, sprinkle with brown sugar and 
let stand until light. Bake in hot oven. 

PAULA'S BAKED APPLES 

Remove the cores from good sized apples, fill 
with jam and bits of butter. Place slices of stale 
bread in a baking dish and put an apple on each 
slice. Pour scalded milk, slightly sweetened, over 
the bread and bake in the oven until apples are 
soft. 

APPLE CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i cupful each of corn meal 
Yt. cupful sugar and wheat flour 

I egg 3 heaping teaspoonfuls 

y^ cupful sweet milk baking powder 

J4 teaspoonful salt 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add the 
beaten ^^g and milk, then the flour which has been 
mixed with the baking powder and salt. Beat the 
batter hard and stir in the finely chopped apples. 
Bake in greased pans for twenty-five minutes. 



APPLES 



APPLE PANCAKES 

I cupful Graham flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

J4 cupful white flour powder 

I tablespoonful sugar 2 eggs 

I teaspoonful salt i}i cupfuls milk 

I cupful finely chopped apples 

Scald the milk and pour on the Graham flour. 
When cold, add remaining ingredients, apples last 
of all. Beat well and bake on hot griddle. 

APPLE AND DATE SALAD 

1 cupful chopped dates 3 cupfuls chopped tart 
^2 cupful chopped nut meats apples 

pinch of salt 

Mix all together, pour over them a dressing of 
lemon juice and sugar. 

BAKED APPLES AND MINCE MEAT 

Pare and core large tart apples, fill the centers 
with mince meat, place them in a baking pan and 
sprinkle with sugar. Pour in a little boiling water 
and bake half an hour, basting often. Serve hot 
with hard sauce. 

APPLE RICE PUDDING 

4 apples 4 tablespoonfuls marma- 

2 tablespoonfuls butter lade 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar M cupful rice 

2j4 cupfuls water % teaspoonful salt 



8 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Cut the apples and put them in a pan with the 
butter, sugar and enough water to cover them. 
Cook them until they are soft and all the water has 
been taken up. Wash and cook the rice in salted 
boiling water until tender, then drain. Caramelize 
a mold and line the bottom and sides of it with the 
rice. Put the cooked apples in the center of the 
mold and spread the marmalade over them. Cover 
the top with rice and bake it in an oven for fif- 
teen minutes. When the rice is cold, turn out on- 
to a platter and serve with any preferred liquid 
sauce. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

I cupful of unsweetened i teaspoonful soda 
apple sauce i^ cupfuls flour 

^2 cupful butter or other ^ teaspoonful each of nut- 
fat meg, cloves, cinnamon 
i}^ cupfuls sugar and salt 
J^ cupful seeded raisins 

Cream butter and sugar together. Add the soda 
to the apple sauce and beat well. Mix butter, sugar 
and apple sauce with flour and spices. Add raisins 
last of all. Beat well and bake in a loaf for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

APPLE LAYER CAKE 

2 tablespoonfuls but- i egg 

ter 2 cupfuls flour 

I cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
1 cupful milk der 



APPLES 9 

Mix in order given and bake in layers. Fill with 
the following: 

Filling: Cook 2 large apples until soft, then add 
I cupful of sugar, the well beaten yolk of an egg 
and the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat smooth 
and spread between layers. 

APPLE TOAST 

Stew peeled and quartered apples in one table- 
spoonful of butter, two of water and one of sugar. 
Cook in this until tender. Fry slices of bread until 
golden brown. Pile the apples on these and serve 
hot with a garnish of bacon. 

APPLE CHUTNEY 

12 sour green apples 2 cupfuls brown sugar 

I large onion juice of 2 lemons 

3 peppers i tablespoonful salt 

I cupful chopped raisins i teaspoonful ginger 

I pint vinegar }i teaspoonful cloves 

I teaspoonful cassia 

Make a syrup of the vinegar, sugar, lemon juice, 
salt and spices. Chop finely the apples, onions and 
peppers. Mix and when boiling hot add a cupful 
of tart jelly. Stir well. Cook slowly one hour. 
Bottle while hot and dip the corks in paraffin. 

APPLE CEREAL PIE 

I pint boiling water J4 cupful sugar 

I cupful breakfast cereal 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

14 teaspoonful salt lemon rind and nutmeg 

3 cupfuls sliced apples to flavor 



10 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Pour the boiling water over the cereal and let it 
stand until the cereal is well swollen, about two 
hours. Then stir in the apples and other ingredi- 
ents. Turn into a pie plate and bake an hour in a 
slow oven. Serve hot with cream. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Mix one cupful each of small pieces of celery, 
apple cut in cubes and English walnuts broken in 
small pieces. Add one teaspoon ful salt, two table- 
spoonfuls orange juice and the grated rind of one 
orange. Add one cupful of mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

2 egg yolks 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

I cupful oil J4 teaspoonful salt 

Add the salt to the vinegar. Beat the yolks well, 
then add the oil gradually, beating rapidly all the 
time. As it becomes stiff, thin with a few drops of 
the vinegar at frequent intervals. 

APPLE WATER 

1 large juicy apple 

2 cupfuls water 
sugar 

Wash, pare and core apple and cut into pieces; 
add water and simmer until tender; strain, add 
sugar to water. Cook five minutes, chill and serve. 



APPLES 11 

If liked, a small amount of lemon juice may be 
added. 

PRESERVED APPLES 

4 lbs. apples 3 cupfuls water 

4 lbs. sugar juice and rind of a lemon 

Wash, pare and quarter apples; keep in water 
until ready to use. Cook sugar and water five 
minutes ; add apples, cook until tender. Add lemon 
juice and rind. Fill jars with apples, then fill with 
syrup and seal. 

CANNED APPLES AND QUINCES 

4 lbs. quinces 2 lbs. sugar 

2 lbs. apples i qt. water 

Pare and quarter the quinces and apples, let stand 
in cold water to prevent discoloration. Cook in boil- 
ing water until tender, then simmer in sugar and 
water syrup for ten minutes. Arrange in jars, fill 
with syrup and seal. 

CANNED APPLES AND PINEAPPLE 

4 lbs. apples 2 lbs. sugar 

4 lbs. pineapple 2 pints water 

rind of 4 lemons 

Pare, core and cut the apples in rings. Cut pine- 
apple in slices, remove skin and eyes and cut pulp 
into squares, being careful to reject the core. Boil 
sugar and water five minutes ; add pineapple ; cook 



12 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

until tender; then cook apples until tender; add 
lemon rind; fill jars, which have been sterilized, 
with the apple and pineapple. Adjust rings, fill jars 
with syrup, adjust covers and seal. Jelly can be 
made of the peel and cores of apples and pineapples 
by covering with cold water, letting boil until soft. 
Strain and proceed as for apple jelly. 

CANNED APPLES 

4 lbs. apples juice and rind of two 

I lb. sugar lemons 

2 pints water 

Pare and core the apples ; cover with cold water. 
Boil sugar and water five minutes ; add apples and 
simmer until tender; add lemon juice and rind; 
place apples in sterilized jars; fill to overflowing 
with syrup; adjust rubbers and covers. Set in a 
cold place until cool, then keep in dark dry closet. 

APPLE GINGER 

4 lbs. sour apples 2 lbs. sugar 

4 lemons i oz. white ginger root 

Pare, core and chop apples; wash, remove seeds 
and chop lemons; add sugar and ginger root, and 
cook very slowly six hours or put in fireless cooker 
over night. Pour into glasses and cover. 

APPLE MARMALADE 

Wash, core and cut apples in slices ; put in kettle, 
add enough water to keep apples from burning. 



APPLES 13 

Cook slowly until mushy, press through sieve, add 
equal amounts of sugar and apples and flavor with 
orange or lemon juice. Cook until stiff; fill glasses 
and cover. 

APPLE JELLY 

Wash and wipe fruit. Remove the stems ; cut in 
pieces, put in preserving kettle, nearly cover with 
cold water ; cook very slowly until apples are tender. 
Pour into jelly bag and drain thoroughly, but do not 
squeeze. Measure juice, allow one pound of sugar 
to every pint of juice. Boil juice twenty minutes; 
add sugar which has been heated on a platter in 
the oven, stir until sugar is dissolved; boil five 
minutes or until it jellies. Skim when necessary. 
Have jelly glasses standing in a pan of hot water ; 
pour jelly into them ; let stand until hard and cover 
first with paper or melted paraffin. Keep in cool, 
dry, dark place. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

Yi cupful pearl tapioca Yt, cupful sugar 

4 cupfuls boiling water grated rind and juice of 

Yi. teaspoonful salt i lemon 

8 apples 

Cook the tapioca in boiling water until trans- 
parent; add one-half teaspoonful salt and lemon 
rind. Core and pare apples, arrange in baking dish, 
fill cavities with sugar and lemon juice, cover with 
tapioca and bake until apples are tender, adding a 
teaspoonful of butter before taking from the oven. 



14 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

APPLE MERINGUE 

8 apples Yt. teaspoonful salt 

3 egg yolks 2 cupfuls milk 

J4 cupful sugar i teaspoonful vanilla 

Core apples and bake tintil tender. Make a cus- 
tard of the remaining ingredients ; pour over baked 
apples. Cover with meringue made of the whites 
of the eggs and three tablespoon fuls powdered 
sugar. 

FRIED APPLES AND ONIONS 

3 apples 
6 onions 
bacon fat 

Fry the onions until almost tender, then add the 
sliced apples. Serve with baked potatoes. 

FRIED APPLES WITH SAUSAGE 

J4 lb. sausage 
6 apples 
yk cupful brown sugar 

Slice the apples after coring them, sprinkle the 
sugar over them and fry with the sausages until a 
light brown. 

STEWED APPLES AND RAISINS 

Pare and core eight apples. Arrange in baking 
dish; fill cavities with apple jelly and chopped 
raisins. Cook until tender, basting with hot water, 



APPLES 15 

sugar and lemon juice. Ten minutes before re- 
moving from oven, stick almonds cut in small pieces 
into the apples. 

APPLE INDIAN PUDDING 

2 cupfuls quartered apples J4 cupful corn meal 

y-2. cupful molasses 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

J4i cupful brown sugar i teaspoonful salt 

4 cupfuls milk cinnamon and nutmeg 

Scald milk ; pour on the corn meal ; add remaining 
ingredients; pour into buttered baking dish, and 
cook in slow oven four hours, keeping dish covered 
for three hours. Stir occasionally. 

APPLE BATTER PUDDING 

I cupful milk I teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful flour 2 cupfuls quartered apples 

2 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice 
2 tablespoonfuls butter J4 cupful sugar 

Mix sugar, salt, flour, eggs and milk. When 
smooth, add apples ; pour into buttered baking dish 
and bake in a moderate oven one hour. Serve im- 
mediately with hard sauce. 

HARD SAUCE 

Yi cupful butter 
I cupful powdered sugar 
I teaspoonful vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar together, add vanilla. 



16 TKUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

8 slices of bread i cupful of sugar 

Yi cupful of butter i tablespoonful lemon juice 

6 apples /4 cupful chopped almonds 

I tablespoonful butter 

Dip bread in melted butter; butter mold; cut 
bread into strips an inch wide and the height of 
the mold. Line bottom and sides of mold with 
bread. Pare and cut up apples; add sugar, water 
and lemon juice, cook until apples are soft. Add 
chopped almonds, i tablespoonful butter ; pour into 
lined mold, cover with slices of buttered bread and 
bake half an hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 

BROWN BETTY 

4 cupfuls sliced apples J/2 teaspoonful cinnamon 

xYi' cupfuls soft bread J4 cupful butter 

crumbs i cupful chopped and 

I cupful sugar seeded raisins 

J4 teaspoonful salt J^ cupful molasses 

Arrange apples and crumbs in layers in a but- 
tered pudding dish, having crumbs on top layer. 
Sprinkle each layer with sugar and cinnamon and 
dot with bits of butter. Add molasses and raisins, 
then layer of crumbs and bake in slow oien one 
hour. 

BIRDS' NESTS 

8 apples 2 cupfuls milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 3 ^gg yolks 

I teaspoonful salt 3 egg whites 



APPLES 17 

Arrange cored and pared apples in a buttered 
baking dish. Mix sugar, flour, milk. Add yolks 
of eggs. When well blended add the well-beaten 
whites. Pour this mixture over apples and bake in 
a moderate oven until apples are tender. 

SCALLOPED APPLE 

I cupful sugar ij^ cupfuls soft bread 
Yz teaspoonful cinnamon crumbs 

2 tablespoon fuls lemon juice 4 cupfuls sliced apple? 

grated rind of one lemon J^ teaspoonful salt 

Yi cupful butter Y cupful water 

Arrange crumbs and apples in layers in a but- 
tered pudding dish, having crumbs on top layer. 
Sprinkle each layer with sugar and cinnamon and 
dot with butter. Add lemon juice, rind of lemon 
and water just before sprinkling on the last layer. 
Bake in slow oven one hour. 



APPLE SOUFFLE 

3 cupfuls quartered apples 3 egg yolks 
2 tablespoonfuls butter 6 egg whites 

Ya, cupful sugar , nutmeg and lemon juice 

Steam apples; add butter, sugar, yolks of eggs 
and flavoring. Cool, cut and fold in beaten whites, 
turn into buttered pudding dish and bake forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 



18 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

STEAMED APPLES WITH GINGER 

Pare and core firm, tart apples. Steam until 
tender, then cover with the syrup from preserved 
ginger and cook slowly until transparent. Place an 
apple in individual dish, pour syrup over and serve 
with cream. 



BAKED APPLE DUMPLING NO. i 

2 cupfuls flour I teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls lard Y^. cupful sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls butter % cupful water 
Yi teaspoonful baking pow- 8 apples cored 

der cinnamon and nutmeg 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Work in 
lard and butter. When well mixed, add water. 
Cut paste in eight rounds, place apples in center 
of rounds, fill cavity with sugar and flavoring. 
Draw paste around apple, place in baking pan rough 
side down. Bake forty-five minutes. Serve with 
Lemon Sauce or Cream. 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch i cupful sugar 
2 cupfuls water grated rind and juice of 

ij^i tablespoonfuls butter a lemon 

Mix cornstarch with sugar. Add boiling water 
and cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring and but- 
ter. Serve hot. 



APPLES 19 

BAKED APPLES 

Core eight apples, arrange in baking dish, fill 
cavities with butter and sugar. Bake until tender, 
basting with sugar and water. When done, arrange 
in serving dish ; sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING NO. 2 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough, roll 
thin and cut into six-inch squares. Into the center 
of each place three or four thin slices of apples and 
fold the dough around them forming a ball. Ar- 
range in a deep baking dish and over them pour a 
syrup made by boiling for five minutes one cupful 
of granulated sugar with one-half cupful of water. 
Bake in a slow oven and serve hot with whipped 
cream. 

NEW ENGLAND BAKED APPLES 

Butter a quart baking dish, fill with peeled and 
quartered apples, dust lightly with cinnamon. Pour 
in one cupful of maple syrup, cover and bake in 
slow oven until fruit is tender. Serve with cream. 

APPLE SPONGE 

% cupful sugar 2 teaspoonf uls baking pow- 

% cupful milk der 

2 eggs 5 sliced apples 

I cupful flour y2 teaspoonful salt 



20 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

Beat eggs; add sugar, flour in which baking 
powder has been sifted, and milk. Beat well; add 
apples, pour into buttered baking dish and bake 
in a moderate oven one hour. Serve with vanilla 
sauce. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

^1 cupful butter i cupful cream 

I cupful powdered sugar i tablespoonful vanilla 

Cream butter; add sugar, beaten cream and fla- 
voring. Heat over hot water until all is liquid. 
Serve hot. 



II. CRAB-APPLES 



CRAB-APPLE PIE 



Slice the apples but do not peel them. Fill the 
pie with them and cover with bits of butter and 
one and one-half cupfuls of sugar. Do not add 
any other seasoning, as the crab-apples have a 
flavor all their own. 

SPICED CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

One peck of crab-apples put on to cook in one- 
half vinegar and one-half water. Cook until apples 
are all soft. Then strain and measure juice. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of broken cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls of whole allspice, one tablespoonful whole 
cloves in two muslin bags and put into juice. Cook, 
and when the spice tastes just right, not too strong, 
take the bags out. Cook the juice until it jellies, 
when tried with one tablespoonful of juice and 
same of sugar. Have the same quantity of sugar 
in a bowl as you have of juice. Pour the juice onto 
sugar. When sugar is dissolved, it will thicken. 
Pour it into glasses. Sour apples can be used the 
same way. 



22 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

Wash and clean out any imperfections in apples 
but do not cut up or pare. Almost cover with water 
and cook slowly until soft enough to strain. Al- 
low first to drain through a colander, then allow 
the juice to drip through a jelly bag, without 
squeezing. Add a cupful of sugar to each cupful 
of juice and boil twenty minutes, removing scum as 
it rises. Strain again and pour into jelly tumblers 
and when cold cover with melted paraffin. 



III. PEARS 



PEAR CHIPS 



4 pounds pears }i pound of Canton pre- 

2 pounds granulated sugar served ginger 

2 lemons 

Weigh the pears after peeling and coring, cut 
them into eighths, sprinkle the sugar over them and 
stand over night, then add the ginger cut in small 
pieces and the lemon sliced thin. Cook very slowly 
for two hours, put in sterilized jars and seal. 

SPICED PEARS 

y2 peck of pears i ounce stick cinnamon 

2 pounds brown sugar cloves if liked 

2 cupfuls vinegar 

Boil the vinegar, sugar and cinnamon together 
for fifteen minutes. Wash, pare, quarter, and core 
the pears. Stick two whole cloves into each quarter. 
Cook a few pears at a time in the syrup until tender. 
Pack in sterilized jars and seal. 

BAKED PEARS 

Take as many winter pears as you wish to use 
and put them into an agate baking dish, cover with 

23 



24 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

equal parts of water and molasses and bake until 
tender. 

PEAR CONSERVE 

5 pounds pears Yz pound raisins 

3 pounds sugar i pound English walnuts 

2 oranges small jar preserved ginger 

3 lemons with syrup 

Peel pears and cut in small pieces. Put sugar 
on and stand over night. In the morning bring to 
a boil, take out the pears and cook the juice until a 
good syrup, then add raisins, grated rind and juice 
of oranges and lemons and cook fifteen minutes. 
Chop the nuts and ginger, add them to syrup, also 
the pears, and cook half an hour. Put in jelly 
glasses. 

PEAR BUTTER 

8 pounds pared and cored 2 pounds sugar 
pears juice one lemon 

4 quarts grape juice 

Cover the pears with the sugar, grape juice and 
lemon juice ; simmer for two hours. Then put them 
in a slow oven over night or in a fireless cooker. 
Put in jelly glasses and cover with paraffin and 
paper. 

COMPOTE OF PEARS 

Soak dried California pears in water over night, 
arrange them around a mound of boiled rice. To 
the water in which the pears were soaked add 



PEAES 25 

enough sugar to make it very sweet, and boil it 
down to a syrup, then add a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Pour the hot syrup over the fruit. Serve 
cold. 

CANNED PEAR AND ORANGE SALAD 

Half a cupful of diced canned pears, three 
oranges, separated into sections, a quarter of a cup- 
ful of minced celery and cream salad dressing. Ar- 
range on lettuce leaves and serve with toasted 
crackers. 

PEAR TRIFLE 

Slice and stew five or six pears in a syrup made 
with a pint each of sugar and water, flavored with 
the juice of a lemon. In a baking dish arrange a 
thin layer of sponge cake, then a layer of the pears, 
topped with a second layer of sponge cake, then 
another of pears, finishing with a third layer of 
sponge cake. Over the whole pour the yolks of 
two eggs whipped with two-thirds of a cupful of 
sugar. Bake till lightly browned, then add to the 
top a meringue of the whites of the eggs; replace 
in the oven till well browned, and serve very cold. 

PEARS WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Pare four Bartlett pears, cut in quarters, length- 
wise, and saute in butter until browned. Arrange 
in serving dish and pour over the following sauce. 
Chill thoroughly before serving. For the sauce 
put two ounces sweet chocolate, one tablespoon ful 



26 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

sugar, and one and one- fourth cupfuls cold milk in 
double boiler, and let cook five minutes, then add 
one teaspoonful arrowroot mixed with one-fourth 
cupful thin cream and a few grains salt, and cook 
ten minutes, stirring constantly. Melt one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls butter, add one- fourth cup- 
ful powdered sugar, and cook until well caramel- 
ized, stirring constantly. Add to first mixture and 
flavor with one-half teaspoonful vanilla. 

CANNED PEARS 

Cut a dozen Bartlett pears in halves, leaving the 
stem on one half, pare and remove the cores. Make 
a syrup of one cupful and a half, each, of sugar and 
water and the juice of one lemon ; skim, put in the 
pears and cook ten minutes, after boiling begins. 
With a silver fork drop the pears into a sterilized 
quart jar, set on a cloth in a pan of water, pour in 
syrup to fill the jar to overflow, adjust the rubber 
and the sterilized cover and tighten the jar. 

CANNED PEARS FROZEN 

Pack a can of pears in ice and salt and leave for 
four hours, then open the can and turn out the 
frozen contents. 

CANDIED PEARS 

Choose nice large ripe but firm pears for this 
purpose. Peel, and halve. Make a thick syrup with 
granulated sugar and water, using a cupful of 
water to each pound of sugar. Place the pears in 



PEAES 27 

this and bring to a boil. Simmer for about five 
minutes ; then remove from fire, and let stand over 
night in the syrup. Place over the fire again, and 
allow the pears to simmer another five minutes. 
Skim carefully out on to platters, and place in the 
sun or in a slow oven until dry. Again bring the 
syrup to a boil, add the pears and simmer to the 
crystal state, then remove the pears on to platters 
again, and let dry as before. Before they are quite 
dry, sprinkle with chopped almonds. When com- 
pletely dry, pack in boxes lined with paraffin paper, 
and place a sheet of paper between each layer. 

PEAR AND LEMON MARMALADE 

Slice the lemons thin and remove the seeds. Al- 
low three pints of water to each pound of the fruit, 
and allow to stand over night in this, then in the 
morning boil until tender. To each pint of this 
boiled fruit add one pint of sliced pears and one 
pound of granulated sugar. Boil until the pears are 
tender, and the syrup begins to jelly and the fruit 
is transparent, then fill into jars and seal. 

CANNED PEAR DESSERT 

Cut squares of plain cake and on each piece lay 
half a pear. Cover with meringue and brown in a 
cool oven. Pour the juice from the can around the 
cake. 

Meringue : Beat one egg until stiff, fold in care- 
fully one-third cupful powdered sugar and a pinch 
of salt. 



IV. PEACHES 

PEACH COCKTAIL 

Peel and dice ripe fruit, allowing one peach for 
each glass. Add a few drops of lemon juice, four 
maraschino cherries cut in halves and three table- 
spoonfuls of the juice. 

PEACH POPOVERS 



2 cupfuls of flour 


2 well beaten eggs 


2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 


milk enough to make bat- 


der 


ter to drop from a 


J4 teaspoonful salt 


spoon 



Butter deep iron gem pans and have them siz- 
zling hot. Put a spoonful of the batter in each, then 
a layer of sliced peaches and some more of the 
batter. Bake in a quick oven and serve at once. 

PEACH PARFAIT 

I cupful mashed peaches juice of i orange 

J^ cupful water i pint heavy cream 

1 cupful sugar whipped 

2 egg whites a drop of bitter almond 

Boil the sugar and water together until it threads 
and pour gently into the tgg whites which should 
be beaten stiff, whipping constantly. Combine the 

28 



PEACHES 29 

peaches and orange juice. Beat in the egg-white 
mixture, stir briskly until cool, and then fold in the 
cream and almond. Pour into a mold, cover with 
wax paper and press on the lid; if this does not fit 
very tightly, dip a cloth in melted lard or paraffin 
and bind around the edge. Pack in equal parts of 
ice and salt for four hours. If canned peaches are 
used, use three-quarters of sugar instead of one 
cupful. 

A NEW PEACH PIE 

6 medium sized peaches J^ cupful flour 

%. cupful butter 4 tablespoon fuls water 

I cupful sugar few grains nutmeg 

flaky pastry 

Line a deep pie plate with pastry, sprinkle the 
bottom with one-half of a crumb-like mixture made 
by rubbing together the butter, sugar and flour. 
Lay on this the halved peaches, cut side down ; add 
the nutmeg and water, sprinkle on the remaining 
crumbs and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

CORN MEAL PEACH PUDDING 

Mix together the following: 

I cupful com meal 2 cupfuls thick sour milk 

I cupful whole wheat J^ cupful molasses 

flour I pint canned peaches 

I cupful white flour Yz teaspoonful salt 

I teaspoonful soda 

Dissolve the soda in the sour milk. Cut the 
peaches small and drain off their juice. Mix all the 



30 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

ingredients together. Steam three hours, and serve 
with cream or a sweet sauce. 

PEACH MELBA 

Cut sponge cake in thin slices and cut off outside 
edges. Lay half a canned peach on each slice, fill 
the cavities with bits of pineapple and candied cher- 
ries. Cover with vanilla ice cream, pour a little 
pineapple syrup over the top and garnish with 
cherries. Very rich. 

PEACH MOLD 

Pare fresh peaches sufficient to make a quart and 
cook until soft in a cupful of water and three- 
quarters of a cupful of sugar. Put them through 
a sieve, pressing the pulp through with a wooden 
spoon. Soak a tablespoonful of gelatin until soft 
in quarter of a cupful of cold water, then stir it into 
the hot peach pulp. Whip a cupful of cream until 
stiff. Let the peach pulp cool, then mix and turn 
into a mold. Set on ice or pack in salt and ice for 
three hours. At serving time turn out and serve 
with sliced peaches and cream. 

PEACH PUDDING NO. i 

Butter a baking dish, slice into it enough peeled 
peaches to nearly fill it and add four tablespoonf uls 
boiling water. Sift together two cupfuls pastry 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt and five teaspoon- 



PEACHES 31 

f uls of baking powder ; rub in a quarter of a cupful 
of shortening, moisten with sweet milk to make a 
soft dough, spread it over the fruit and bake until 
well browned. Serve with cream and sugar. 

PEACH CROUSTADES 

Cut small rounds from thin slices of sponge cake 
and saute them in clarified butter until they become 
a delicate brown. Drain halves of large perfect 
peaches cooked until tender in a syrup of sugar and 
water. Sprinkle the rounded sides thickly with 
grated cocoanut and place one on each slice of 
cake. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

PEACH SAUCE 

Pare, slice and rub through a coarse sieve enough 
ripe, soft peaches to make a pint. Cream two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and one cupful of sugar until 
very light, then add the peach pulp and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice by degrees and set on ice until 
ready to serve. This sauce is very good poured 
over squares of plain cake or poured around a mold 
of corn starch, 

PEACH COBBLER 

Put an inverted cup in the center of a buttered 
baking pan surrounded with one quart of peeled 
and sliced peaches; sprinkle with sugar. Sift one 
and a half cupfuls of flour with one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and half a teaspoonful of 



32 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

salt; work in one tablespoonful of shortening, 
moisten with half a cupful of milk, roll out to fit the 
size of the pan, cut two gashes in it to allow the 
steam to escape, place over the fruit and bake in a 
moderate oven. Serve with cream or peach sauce. 

PEACH AND MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

Whip half a pint of cream, sweeten to taste, fold 
in quarter of a pound of marshmallow cream 
(canned) and half a cupful of canned peach pulp 
cut fine. Chill thoroughly and serve between slices 
of peach and garnish with whole marshmallows. 
Serve with sponge cake. 

PEACH ROLY POLY 

2 cupfuls flour Yi teaspoonful salt 

2^4 teaspoonfuls baking i ^^g, sugar and milk 

powder 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt, 
add the yolk of the egg, well beaten, and enough 
sweet milk to make a soft dough. Turn on to a 
floured board, knead slightly, then roll out about 
a quarter of an inch thick, brush with softened but- 
ter, sprinkle with sugar, cover with peeled and 
sliced peaches, sprinkle again with sugar and roll 
as a jelly roll. Place in a baking pan, brush over 
with the beaten white of the &g%, sprinkle again 
with sugar, bake about half an hour and serve with 
hard or liquid sauce. 



PEACHES 33 

PEACH AND TOMATO SALAD 

Peel and quarter six firm white peaches and six 
red tomatoes. Set them on the ice ; put into a bowl 
a saltspoonful of celery seed, a pinch of white pep- 
per and five drops of table sauce. Stir well, add 
gradually four tablespoonfuls salad oil and juice 
of a lemon. If properly mixed it will be of the 
consistency of rich cream. Arrange lettuce leaves, 
pile peaches and tomatoes in the center. When 
ready to serve pour the dressing over them. 

BAKED PEACHES 

Pour boiling water over peaches until the skins 
slip oflF easily. Place them in a pan, sprinkle with 
sugar, pour water over them to the depth of half 
an inch. Bake until tender and slightly brown. 
Serve with cream. 

PEACH AND RASPBERRY TRIFLE 

Bake a sponge cake in an oblong pan ; when cool 
cut in squares. Pile peeled and sliced peaches on 
each square. Heap over the tops whipped cream, 
which has been beaten with raspberry jelly or some 
fresh mashed raspberries. 

PEACH CONSERVE 

4 pounds peaches ^ pound blanched and 

I pineapple chopped almonds 

I orange ^ pound seedless raisins 

I lemon 



34 FEUITS AND THEIB COOKERY 

Peel and cut the peaches in small pieces, peel and 
grate the pineapple, peel and grate the orange and 
lemon. Cook the fruits until soft and puffy. Then 
add one pound of sugar to each pint of fruit. Crush 
a few of the peach kernels and add them also. Cook 
until rich and thick, stirring frequently to prevent 
burning. Pour into marmalade jars and seal when 
cold. 

SPICED PEACHES 

Yi peck peaches i tablespoonful whole 

2 pounds brown sugar cloves 

I ounce stick cinnamon 2 inch piece ginger root 

2 cupfuls vinegar 

Tie spices in a cheesecloth bag, boil the vinegar 
and spices, scald the peaches, peel them and cook 
them in the syrup until they are tender. Put them 
in sterilized jars and seal. 

PEACH TAPIOCA 

Take the syrup from a can of peaches and add 
boiling water to make a pint. Stir in one-half tea- 
spoonful salt and one-third cupful tapioca. Cook 
in a double boiler until transparent. Butter pudding 
dish and put fruits in it. Flavor the tapioca with a 
little lemon juice and pour over the fruit. Bake 
twenty minutes and serve with cream. 

PEACH FOAM 

Soften one-half box gelatin in one-half cupful 
cold water; add one-half cupful boiling water, place 



PEACHES 35 

over hot water. Add three-quarter cupful of sugar 
and stir until dissolved. Remove from the fire, add 
one cupful strained peach pulp and one-half tea- 
spoonful bitter almond extract and let stand until 
cool. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
turn into small molds and place on ice to harden. 
Serve with thin boiled custard. 

STEWED PEACHES AND RAISINS 

y2 pound dried peaches Yz cupful sugar 

Yz cupful seedless raisins 

Wash and soak peaches over night in water 
enough to cover and stew in the water in which 
they were soaked. When about half done add the 
raisins and the sugar. Cook slowly until tender. 

PEACH CUSTARD 

I pint milk 3 level teaspoonfuls corn- 

I egg starch 

Yz cupful sugar i teaspoonful butter 

Put milk on to boil, beat the Q.%g very light, add 
sugar and beat until creamy. Then add the corn- 
starch which has been made smooth in a little cold 
water and cook five minutes ; lastly add the butter. 
Cool and pour over peeled and sliced peaches. 

PEACH MARMALADE 

Boil for ten minutes three pounds of sugar and 
three cupfuls of water. Add four pounds of 



36 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

peaches, peeled and cut in small pieces. Boil until 
thick, stirring to prevent burning. Turn into small 
glasses and seal when cold. 

PEACH TURNOVERS 

Make a rich pastry, roll out about half an inch 
thick and cut out round with a saucer. Put on each 
half a cupful of sliced peaches, a tablespoonful of 
sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. Moisten 
the edges of the paste with white of egg, fold over, 
press together with thumb to make the edge even 
scallops, sift powdered sugar over and bake. Serve 
with peach sauce. 

PEACH MERINGUE NO. i 

Line a deep dish with slices of stale sponge cake; 
fill with peeled and sliced peaches and sprinkle with 
sugar. Beat the whites of three eggs until very- 
stiff. Fold in three tablespoon fuls of powdered 
sugar, flavor slightly with vanilla, spread over the 
peaches and brown in a hot oven. Serve cold with 
cream. 

FROZEN PEACH ROLL 

Line a mold about two inches deep with vanilla 
ice cream. Fill with sliced peaches, cover with 
vanilla ice cream. Put on the lid, bind the edges 
with a strip of buttered cloth, pack in salt and ice 
and let stand two hours. When ready to serve, 
unmold and sprinkle with macaroon crumbs. 



PEACHES 37 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

I pint milk ij^ pints of peach pulp 

I pint cream 2>4 cupfuls of sugar 

Add half the sugar to the peach pulp and let 
it stand for two hours, then press it again through 
a sieve. Scald the milk with half the sugar, let it 
cool, half freeze it and then add the cream and 
peach pulp and finish freezing, 

PEACH PUDDING NO. 2 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with canned 
peaches. Take half the juice from the can, add to 
it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and boil it to a 
thick syrup. 

Make a custard, using two cupfuls of milk, the 
yolks of two eggs, and a heaping tablespoonful of 
cornstarch. Cook in a double boiler for half an 
hour, then add a little of the peach syrup to sweeten 
it, and a few drops of almond extract. Sprinkle 
the peaches with blanched almonds, cut in small 
pieces, pour over them the syrup, then the custard. 
Cover the top with meringue made of the whites 
of two eggs and three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Brown the meringue. Serve the pudding 
hot or cold. 

PEACH MOUSSE 

Mash and rub enough fresh or canned peaches 
through a colander to make a cupful. Add to this 



38 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

a teaspoon ful of lemon juice, a few drops of almond 
extract and enough sugar to sweeten it. Dissolve 
in quarter of a cupful of hot peach juice one and 
three-quarter tablespoon fuls of granulated gelatin 
which has been soaked for an hour in half a cup- 
ful of cold water. Add the gelatin to the peach 
mixture. When it begins to set, mix it until 
smooth, then fold in a half pint of cream whipped 
to a stiff froth and turn it into a mold. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

PEACHES AND CREAM 

Cut peeled peaches into slices and put them in 
the icebox. Add as much sugar to a half pint of 
cream as will be needed to sweeten the peaches. 
Whip the cream to a stiff froth. Just before 
serving, mix together lightly the peaches and 
cream ; put in a covered mold, and pack in ice and 
salt. Use but little salt, for the object is to make 
them very cold and not to freeze them. 

PEACH OMELET 

Pare and put through a sieve three very ripe 
peaches. Add two tablespoon fuls of powdered 
sugar and the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Then 
stir in carefully the whites of six well beaten eggs. 
Turn into a greased baking dish and bake in a quick 
oven for fifteen minutes. Serve at once. 



PEACHES 39 

HOT PEACH PUDDING WITH COLD SAUCE 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter with half a 
cupful of sugar, add one beaten egg yolk and half 
a cupful of milk. Beat well and add one and a half 
cupfuls of flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and a little salt. Fold in the stififly 
beaten whites of two eggs and turn into a shallow 
greased pan. Cover with slices of peaches and bake 
half an hour. Serve with a cold boiled custard. 

PEACHES AND RICE 

Cook a quarter of a pound of rice in three cup- 
fuls of milk with the grated rind of a lemon and a 
pinch of salt. When tender and while very moist 
add a tablespoonful of gelatin dissolved in two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water and three table- 
spoonfuls sugar. When cooled and beginning to 
set, stir in a cupful of whipped cream. Mold in a 
ring, serve with canned or fresh peaches in center. 

PEACH PUDDING NO. 3 

Drain one can peaches. Put syrup in saucepan 
and add one-third cupful sugar and a few grains 
salt. Bring to the boiling point and let simmer 
until syrup is quite thick. Chill syrup as well as 
peaches. Arrange halves of peaches, cavity side 
up, in shallow baking dish, and in each cavity put 
a marshmallow (using an inexpensive kind which 



40 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKBEY 

melts more rapidly). Place in a hot oven and let 
stand until the marshmallows soften, five minutes 
being required, by which time the chilled peaches 
will not be heated through. Arrange on a serving- 
dish, pour syrup around, and serve with thin cream. 

PEACH FRITTERS 

Beat well the yolks of two eggs, add one-half 
cupful of cold water, one-quarter of a teaspoonful 
of salt and sufficient sifted flour to make a pour 
batter. Add one tablespoonful of olive oil or melted 
butter and the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff 
froth. Set away for at least two hours. Pare and 
halve ripe peaches. Have ready a small deep kettle 
partly filled with smoking hot fat. Dip each half 
into the batter so that it may have a coating all 
over it, lift out with a fork and drop into the hot 
fat. Do not cook more than three or four at a 
time. Drain for a moment on unglazed paper, dust 
with powdered sugar and serve hot. 

PEACH DUMPLING 

Pare, halve and pit six large ripe peaches and 
place the halves together as they were cut. Make a 
dough precisely the same as for shortening, roll 
thin and cut with a large round cutter. Lay half 
a peach cut side up in the center of each, put a small 
bit of butter and three drops of vanilla in the center 
of each peach on the forms. Then place the re- 
maining halves of the peaches in position, fold the 



PEACHES 41 

dough over, roll gently in the hand to make ball- 
shaped, lay them on a buttered plate, but not 
closely. Set in a steamer and steam 20 minutes. 
Serve hot with peach or any sauce preferred. 

PEACH BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soften two tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatin 
in one-half cupful of cold water, add one-half cup- 
ful of boiling water and stir until dissolved, then 
add one pint of crushed peaches and one-half cup- 
ful of sugar. Stir over cracked ice until the mix- 
ture begins to thicken. Fold in the whip from one 
pint of cream, turn into a wet mold, and set aside 
until firm. Serve with a garnish of peeled and 
halved peaches. 

PEACH SURPRISE 

One quart of peaches cut up in small bits, two 
cupfuls of sugar, whites of five eggs. Do not beat 
the eggs at all; just mix everything together and 
put in the freezer and turn till stiff. This is de- 
licious. 

PEACH BLANC MANGE 

Cover one-half box gelatin with one-half cupful 
cold water and let stand one-half hour. Pour 
over one cupful of hot scalded milk and scald until 
it is dissolved. Take eight ripe peaches, peel, stone 
and put through a sieve. Add one cupful pulver- 
ized sugar. Beat one pint cream gradually into 



42 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

the peaches and the dissolved gelatin, well mixed, 
pour into molds and stand away to harden. 

PEACH LOAF 

Remove the center from a loaf of sponge cake, 
leaving a shell about one-half inch in thickness. 
Boil four tablespoon fuls each of water and granu- 
lated sugar for three minutes. Beat in powdered 
sugar to make a frosting and spread over the top 
and sides of the cake. Then sprinkle immediately 
with finely chopped almonds. Fill with peeled and 
sliced peaches, sprinkle generously with sugar and 
serve with cream, either plain or whipped. 

PEACH PIE 

Cover a pie plate with plain pastry and cut 
enough fresh or canned peaches in halves to cover 
it. Pour in a little of the juice, and then fill up 
with sour cream; sprinkle sugar over it generously; 
lay strips of the pie crust across it and bake slowly. 

DEEP PEACH PIE 

Line a deep pie dish with rich pie paste, and on 
this put canned peaches with the hollow side up. 
In each hollow put a bit of butter and a spoonful 
of sugar. Thicken the juice from the canned 
peaches with a little cornstarch and turn over the 
halves. Bake until the crust is brown and the 
peaches very tender. Serve cold with plain cream. 



PEACHES 43 



PEACH AND RAISIN PUDDING 

Yi. cupful of white flour i tablespoonful of butter 

Yi cupful of whole-wheat ^ cupful of milk 

flour I egg 

1 teaspoonful of baking J^ teaspoonful of salt 

powder ^ cupful of halved raisins 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar i cupful of diced canned 
Yi teaspoonful of grated peaches, drained of 

nutmeg their juice 

Sift the white flour with the baking powder and 
salt. Add the whole-wheat flour, sugar, nutmeg, 
well-beaten t.gg, milk, raisins and peaches. Mix 
well and steam in a buttered mold for three hours. 
Serve hot with lemon or hard sauce. 



INDIVIDUAL PEACH PUDDING 

Allow half a canned peach for each individual 
pudding dish. Make a batter by pressing through 
a colander two extra peach halves, adding a well- 
beaten egg-yolk, quarter cupful of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, pinch of salt, three-fourths 
cupful of flour and one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. 

Beat well and fold in beaten white of tg%. Put 
a little of this batter in the bottom of a buttered 
dish, lay on a half peach, cover with two table- 
spoonfuls of the batter and sprinkle with granu- 
lated sugar. Put in a moderate oven and bake for 
twenty minutes. 

Serve in molds with a spoonful of hard sauce on 



44 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERT 

each, or turn from molds and serve with plain 
cream. 

PEACH RICE PUDDING 

I quart of milk i tablespoonful of butter 

J4 cupful of rice i teaspoonful lemon ex- 
Yz teaspoonful of salt tract 

canned sliced peaches whipped cream, sweet- 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar ened and flavored 

Wash the rice well, add the milk, sugar, butter 
and salt. Bake in a moderate oven until the rice is 
soft and creamy. Flavor with the extract, and cool 
before using. Place the pudding in individual 
dessert dishes, garnish with sliced peaches and heap 
the whipped cream on top. 

PEACH SPONGE 

The sponge cake to be used in this manner may 
be either fresh or stale. Cut the cake with a sharp 
knife into slices and place in individual sherbert 
glasses. Pour over each piece of cake a few spoon- 
fuls of peach juice and a half peach to each glass. 
Cover with whipped cream, slightly sweetened and 
flavored with bitter almond. 

GOLDEN PEACH PUDDING 

Fill a pudding dish with whole peeled peaches and 
pour over them two cupfuls of water. Cover 
closely and bake until peaches are tender, then drain 
off the juice from the peaches and let it stand until 
cool. Add to the juice one pint sweet milk, four 



PEACHES 45 

well-beaten eggs, a small cup of flour with one tea- 
spoonful baking powder mixed in it, one cupful 
sugar, one tablespoonful melted butter and a little 
salt. Beat well three or four minutes, then pour 
over peaches in dish. Bake in the dish until a 
rich brown and serve with milk. 

PEACH BREAD PUDDING 

On a pint of fine stale bread or cracker crumbs 
pour boiling water and stir in a tablespoonful of 
melted butter. After standing till thoroughly- 
soaked, add two well-beaten eggs and half a cupful 
of sugar. On the bottom of a buttered pudding 
dish put a thin layer of this batter, over it a layer 
of sliced peaches and so on, dredging each layer of 
peaches with sugar, until the dish is full, having 
batter at the top. Bake in a moderate oven about 
an hour. 

PEACH STEAMED PUDDING 

1 cupful flour 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 
}i teaspoonful salt i cupful sugar 

2 cupfuls fine bread crumbs 2 cupfuls peaches 
J^ cupful chopped nuts 3 eggs 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, 
lemon-juice and peaches. Beat well. Pour into 
buttered molds and steam two hours. Serve with 
cream. 



y. PLUMS 

PLUMS IN RICE BORDER 

Cook half cupful rice in milk until tender and 
quite dry, adding a pinch of salt when it is half 
done. Make it rather sweet with powdered sugar 
and pour into a border mold to set. When ready to 
serve, turn it out carefully and fill the center with 
rich stewed plums. Pour a little of the syrup over 
the rice and heap whipped cream over the plums. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

Put one large basket of plums into preserving 
kettle, cover with water and boil until soft. Re- 
move stones and boil them a few minutes in a little 
water. Add this water to the plums, add one- fourth 
pound chopped walnuts, one-half pound raisins, six 
cupfuls sugar, grated peel of four oranges and the 
juice; do not use the white skin. Boil all together 
until it thickens. Put in jars boiling hot and seal 
at once. 

PLUM CHARLOTTE 

Remove the stones from a dozen plums, put them 
in a saucepan just covered with water. Add sugar 
enough to sweeten, stew them until tender. Line a 
mold with lady fingers or thin strips of sponge 

46 



PLUMS 47 

cake, fill with the hot plums, cover with more cake 
and let get icy cold. Serve with cream. 

PLUMS IN BATTER 

Make a batter with two beaten eggs, five table- 
spoonfuls of flour, a little more than one pint of 
milk and a pinch of salt. Remove the stones from 
one quart of large ripe plums, crack them, put the 
kernels inside of the plums again, mix the fruit 
with two tablespoon fuls of moist sugar and stir 
it lightly into the batter. Turn it into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a Jiot oven till done, about 
forty minutes. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the 
top and serve hot with one-half cupful of butter, 
one cupful of sugar and one well-beaten egg, stirred 
to a cream and flavored. 

PRESERVED DAMSONS 

Wipe damsons with a piece of cheese-cloth wrung 
out of cold water, and prick each five or six times, 
using a large needle ; then weigh. Put three- fourths 
their weight of sugar in a large stew-pan, and to 
each pound of sugar add one cupful of boiling 
water. As soon as sugar and water reach the boil- 
ing point, add plums a few at a time, that fruit may 
keep in better shape during the cooking. Cook until 
plums are soft, which may easily be determined by 
piercing with a small wooden skewer. It is an 
excellent idea to use two kettles, that the work may 



48 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

be done more quickly and the syrup may not cook 
too long a time. 

SPICED PLUMS 

Wipe five pounds of plums with a piece of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water, and prick each five 
or six times, using a large needle. Put two and 
one-half pounds of brown sugar in a saucepan, and 
pour over one quart of vinegar ; then add two ounces 
of cloves, one ounce of stick cinnamon broken into 
pieces, one ounce of allspice-berries, and one ounce 
of mace (all tied in a piece of muslin). Bring mix- 
ture to the boiling point, and let boil ten minutes. 
Pour over plums, cover, and let stand over night. 
In the morning, drain plums from syrup again, 
bring syrup to the boiling point, let boil ten min- 
utes, and pour over plums. Cover, let stand over 
night, drain, and repeat the process a third time. 

PLUM JELLY 

Put the plums into the preserving kettle with 
water to cover. Cook slowly until the plums will 
mash readily, then turn into a jelly bag, and drip 
until pulp is dry. Boil the juice rapidly twenty 
minutes, skim well, remove from fire and measure. 
Let come to a boil again and add as many cupfuls 
of sugar as you had juice. Let boil until it jellies, 
which will be fifteen to twenty minutes. Pour into 
glasses and when cold cover and put in a cool, dry 
place. 



PLUMS 49 

PLUM JAM 

Wash and halve the plums, but do not remove 
the stones. Add enough water to barely cover and 
cook slowly, mashing with a wire potato masher 
several times. When the fruit is soft and the stones 
have fallen out set aside and let stand until cool. 
Remove the stones, which will have come to the 
top. Add pound for pound of sugar to the fruit 
and juice and cook until thick. If a plum butter 
or marmalade is desired put through a sieve and re- 
heat before canning. 

PLUM PIE 

Cover pie plate with plain paste; fill with the 
following : Two cupf uls pitted plums, half a cupful 
of sugar; dredge with flour, add two tablespoon f uls 
lemon juice and one tablespoon ful butter, cover 
with paste and bake. 

SWEET PICKLED PLUMS 

Prick four pounds of plums with a needle in two 
or three places to keep them from bursting. Put 
them with layers of cloves and cinnamon into glass 
jars. Make a syrup of two pounds of sugar and 
one quart of vinegar and pour it hot over the plums. 
Next day pour off the vinegar, boil it up and pour 
again over the fruit. Cover the jars. This im- 
proves by keeping for some weeks before using. 



VI. QUINCES 

QUINCE CUSTARDS 

Pare, core and slice two quinces and two apples, 
cover with one pint of cold water and simmer gently 
until the fruit is very tender, then strain. Return 
the liquid to the fire and add from one-half to three- 
quarters of a cupful of sugar according to the 
acidity of the fruit. Beat well together eight eggs, 
first putting aside the whites of two. Pour the 
fruit mixture gradually over the eggs^ return to 
the fire and stir until of a rich custard consistence. 
In the bottom of each custard cup place a piece 
of stale cake dipped in fruit juice. When the cus- 
tard is cool fill the cups and heap on each some of a 
meringue made by whipping together to a stiflf froth 
the reserved whites of the eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar and a few drops of lemon 
juice. 

SPANISH QUINCE PIE 

Line a deep earthen pie plate with puff paste, 
prick it with a fork, and bake brown. When done, 
fill it with a layer of quince marmalade, and cover 
with another deep layer of whipped cream, slightly 
sweetened and flavored with pineapple juice. Dec- 
orate with pieces of angelica and preserved cher- 
ries, and serve cold. 

50 



QUINCES 51 

QUINCE HONEY 

Pare, quarter and seed ripe quinces, keeping the 
parings and cores to make jelly. Grate the pared 
fruit on a coarse grater, or put through the food 
chopper using the fine knife. Measure, and for 
every cup of the pulp allow three-fourths of a cup- 
ful of granulated sugar. Make the sugar into a 
syrup adding enough water to keep from burning, 
then when it is dissolved stir in the quince pulp and 
cook slowly until the whole is a rich syrup about 
like thick honey. Seal while hot. 

BAKED QUINCES 

Peel and core the quinces, place in a baking dish, 
fill the cavities with sugar, add a little grated lemon 
rind, pour in enough water to half fill the dish, 
cover and bake several hours in a moderate oven. 
Serve while hot with a hard sauce. 

QUINCE AND PEAR PRESERVE 

Pare one peck of quinces and cut into one-quarter 
or one-eighth pieces, just cover with hot water and 
cook moderately until tender. Take quince out on 
a platter when cooked, then peel one-half peck ripe 
pears, cut up in one-quarter pieces, cook in the 
same liquid until tender. When cooked take out, 
and put on platter. Make a syrup from the liquid 
that the fruit was cooked in ; to every two cupf uls 
of liquid add one cupful of heated sugar. Boil 



52 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

'liquid first, then add heated sugar. Cook until a 
syrup, then add all the fruit. Cook moderately un- 
til fruit is thoroughly heated through. Put up in 
air-tight jars. 

QUINCE PRESERVE 

Pare, core and weigh the fruit, put in preserving 
kettle with one pint of water to every pound of 
fruit, and boil ten minutes, or until tender enough 
to pass straw through them. If they are not per- 
fectly ripe they will require longer boiling. Take 
out, one at a time, and place on dishes to drain. 
Allow one pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. 
Put the sugar in a kettle with enough water to dis- 
solve it, then put in the fruit and boil until the 
cloudy look disappears, skimming all the time. Lay 
the fruit on a dish to cool, then put in jars and pour 
the hot syrup over it. 

QUINCE MARMALADE 

Cook the skins of the quinces in boiling water 
nearly one hour, then drain off the water and pour 
it over quartered unpeeled quinces from which the 
seeds have been removed. Let all cook until the 
quinces are very tender, then press through a fine 
colander. Measure and allow three-quarters of a 
cupful of sugar for each cupful of the quince pulp, 
and cook the pulp for twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Then add the heated sugar, cook to the 



QUINCES 53 

consistency of marmalade and store as for jelly 
or conserve. 

PRESERVED QUINCES 

Wash, pare and core the quinces, weigh and al- 
low equal weight of sugar. Cover fruit with cold 
water, cover kettle and cook slowly until thick and 
dark. Put into sterilized jars. 

QUINCE AND SWEET APPLE PRESERVE 

Pare the quinces, cut in quarters and remove the 
cores and woody portions beneath. Cook the skins 
with water to cover until soft, then strain off this 
water and in it cook the quinces until tender; add 
half the quantity of sweet cooking apples prepared 
like the quinces — it will take much longer for the 
quinces to cook than the apples. Always let the 
fruit stand in cold water after peeling until the 
time for cooking, and only cook as much fruit at 
a time as the liquid will cover. When all the fruit 
has been cooked and removed with a skimmer, add 
to the liquor a pound of sugar for each pound of 
quince, and half a pound of sugar for each pound 
of apples. Boil the syrup for five minutes, skim, 
add the fruit and let cook slowly until transparent 
and a good color. Drain out the fruit, pack in 
sterilized hot jars and pour the boiling hot syrup 
over, filling the jars to overflowing. Seal airtight 
as for canned fruit. 



54 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

HONEY QUINCE JELLY 

One of the reasons that there are so many fail- 
ures in making good quince jelly lies in the fact 
that the quince seeds are cooked with the fruit. 
These tend to produce a mucilage-like syrup that is 
very hard to "jell," no matter how carefully it is 
cooked. To make a jelly with honey, boil the 
quince juice, secured in the usual manner, for about 
twenty minutes. Use three-quarters of a cupful 
of sweetening to each cupful of the juice. Let half 
the measure of sweetening be strained honey. Boil 
until the mixture jellies. It should not take longer 
than five minutes. 



VII. APRICOTS 

FROZEN APRICOTS 

Remove the skins from one quart of canned ap- 
ricots and cut them in small pieces ; add the juice, 
one quart of water and two cupfuls of sugar and 
stir until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze and allow 
the mixture to stand an hour before serving. 

APRICOT SOUFFLE 

Press through a sieve one cupful of stewed apri- 
cots, add three-fourths cupful of sugar. Cook until 
thick; then add the stiffly beaten whites of four 
eggs. Cut them in, as you would for sponge cake, 
and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Yi cupful apricot jam or J^ cupful water 

juice I teaspoonful cornstarch 

Yi cupful sugar i tablespoonful lemon juice 

few grains salt 

Rub the cornstarch smooth with a little of the 
water and boil all ingredients together for ten 
minutes. Serve over boiled rice or plain cornstarch 
pudding. 

55 



56 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

APRICOT ROLL 

Wash a half pound of dried apricots and soak 
over night. Put to cook in the double boiler next 
morning in fresh water to cover, adding a tiny 
pinch of soda to neutralize the acidity. When they 
have swelled to full size, or in about an hour, 
sweeten to taste and cook for twenty minutes 
longer. Meantime make a rich biscuit dough, using 
whole-wheat flour. Two cupfuls of flour, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and three table- 
spoonfuls of shortening, with water or milk suffi- 
cient to make a dough, which can be rolled out thin. 
Roll out thin, spread lightly with butter, then spread 
with the drained apricots. Sprinkle with sugar. 
Roll up, pinch the ends to keep together, then bake 
in a greased pan after rubbing the top with shorten- 
ing. Baste once with melted shortening mixed with 
some of the hot fruit juice. When brown remove 
to platter, and serve with the apricot liquid cooked 
down until syrupy and thickened with a teaspoonful 
of cornstarch wet with a little cold water. 

DRIED APRICOT SHERBET 

Soak half a pound of dried apricots in cold water 
over night; pour off the water, strain it through 
cheesecloth and return to the apricots with as 
much boiling water as is needed to cook them. Let 
cook rapidly until tender ; when done there should 
be one quart of apricots and liquid; press through 



APRICOTS 57 

a sieve, add one quart of water, two cupfuls and a 
half of sugar and the juice of a lemon and freeze 
as any sherbet. For a smoother sherbet, cook the 
sugar in the pulp five or six minutes, then cool, add 
the cold water and freeze. 

APRICOT PARFAIT 

I pint of apricot fruit pulp i lemon 

I pint of cream 6 almonds, chopped 

Add the lemon juice to the fruit pulp and then 
stir in the cream and the chopped almonds. Put 
the cream into a mold and pack it in ice and rock 
salt for three hours. It will make a pint and a 
half of cream. 

APRICOT ICE 

Put one quart of apricots through a colander, add 
the same amount of water, the yolks of four eggs 
well beaten, sugar enough to make sweet, one pint 
of cream and then the stiffl'y-beaten whites of the 
eggs. Mix together and freeze. 

APRICOT ICE FOR AN INVALID 

Into a pound baking powder can with tight seams 
place one-fourth cupful of apricot juice, one-third 
of a cupful of water and two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice. Sweeten with two tablespoon fuls of syrup 
made by cooking together for ten minutes equal 
quantities of sugar and water. Strained and 
bottled this gives a ripe flavor which the raw sugar 



58 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

lacks. Ice creams for an invalid should be made 
of pure, thin cream, flavored. The cooked custard 
creams are not so easily digested. To freeze, place 
the can in a larger kettle and surround with three 
cups of ice to every cup of salt. Be sure the mixture 
reaches the height of the Hquid to be frozen. Twirl 
the can for about fifteen minutes, and serve imme- 
diately. The whole operation should take only one- 
half hour. 

APRICOT SPONGE 

I cupful sugar Yz box sparkling gelatin 

I pound apricots juice of one-half lemon 

whites of 2 eggs 

Soak gelatin in one- fourth cupful of cold water. 
Cook apricots until soft. Strain, add to juice enough 
hot water to make two cupfuls and pour over gela- 
tin. Put apricots through colander and add two 
cupfuls of pulp to gelatin. Beat with wire whip 
until cold and stiff or nearly so, then add lemon 
juice and beaten whites of eggs. Beat well and 
turn into mold. When ready to serve, slice cake 
and drop a spoonful of whipped cream on each 
slice. 

RICE WITH APRICOTS 

Boil one cupful of well-washed rice in a kettle 
of salted water until tender, turn it into a well but- 
tered mold, tapping and shaking to pack it slightly, 
then stand over hot water for five minutes. Turn 
carefully out on a hot platter and over it pour one- 
half of a can of apricots mashed and heated. 



APRICOTS 59 

EVAPORATED APRICOT PRESERVE 

Soak one pound of apricots over night; add one 
pound of sugar and cook gently until thick. Serve 
with cream. 

APRICOT MARMALADE 

Wipe and cut four pounds of apricots in halves. 
Remove the stones, cut the apricots in small pieces. 
Add four pounds of hot sugar and cook slowly for 
two hours ; add the juice of two lemons. Put into 
jelly glasses and cover. 



VIII. ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 

ORANGE AND ONION SALAD 

2 oranges lettuce 

Yz Spanish onion French dressing 

Peel and slice the oranges; slice the onion and 
mix. Arrange on lettuce leaves. Serve with 
French dressing. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Into a small dish put 

Yi teaspoonful of salt i tablespoonful vinegar or 

J4 teaspoonful black pepper lemon 

4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE NO. i 

I tablespoonful flour ij^ cupfuls boiling water 

I cupful sugar i tablespoonful butter 

I orange finely shredded 

Mix the flour with the sugar and add gradually 
the boiling water. Put in a saucepan over the fire, 
and when the mixture boils, add the butter and 
orange. Boil until the sauce is like thick cream, 
serve either hot or cold. Good on any boiled or 
baked pudding. 

60 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFEUIT 61 

ORANGE APRICOT MARMALADE 

4 quarts apricots 
4 large oranges 
6 cupfuls sugar 

Wash the apricots and pit them. Mash and put 
.into a granite kettle over a slow fire. With a sharp 
thin-bladed knife pare off the yellow part of the 
rind and cut it in threads with the scissors (be sure 
not to have the white part of the rind). Mix them 
with the apricots, add the juice and pulp of the 
oranges, let this simmer slowly, stirring frequently 
until well blended. Add the sugar which has been 
heated in the oven and boil hard for ten minutes. 
Put into sterilized glasses or jars. 

ORANGE OMELET 

4 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered 2 tablespoonfuls orange 

sugar juice 

2 oranges J4 teaspoonful baking pow- 
J^ teaspoonful salt der 

Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, add 
the salt to yolks and beat well. Beat whites until 
stiff and add yolks, baking powder and orange juice. 
Sprinkle powdered sugar on oranges which have 
been sliced lengthwise. Put butter in hot frying 
pan and pour in omelet mixture. When it has 
thickened well and is puffed up add the thin slices 
of one orange. Fold the omelet in half over the 



62 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

orange. When done place on hot platter with the 
rest of orange slices on top. 

ORANGE SNOW PUDDING 

Yt. box gelatin 3 eggs 

Yz cupful cold water 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

2 cupfuls boiling water J4 saltspoonful salt 
I cupful sugar i pint hot milk 

juice I lemon grated rind i orange 

Cover gelatin with the cold water. When soft- 
ened, add the boiling water, one cupful sugar and 
the juice of the lemon, stir until dissolved, strain 
and set aside to cool. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, stir them into the gelatin mixture 
when it begins to thicken and beat to a stiff white 
foam. Turn into a ring mold and put on ice for 
several hours. Make a custard with the well beaten 
yolks of eggs, the three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and salt, add gradually the hot milk and the grated 
rind of the orange. Cook in double boiler until the 
custard coats the spoon, then strain. Fill the gela- 
tin ring with sliced oranges and pour the custard 
over. 

ORANGE WATER ICE 

juice 6 oranges 2 cupfuls powdered sugar 

juice I lemon ^ cupful rich sweet cream 

I quart water 

Add sugar to fruit juice, stir the water and 
cream in slowly until well blended, strain and freeze 
as for ice cream. 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 63 

HOW TO SERVE AN ORANGE TO AN INVALID 

Soak an orange in hot water for half an hour. 
The skin will loosen and come off like a glove and 
the pulp will be delicious. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Scrub the peel carefully; cut the outer yellow 
rind from the white lining. Cover with water and 
boil until tender ; remove, cut into small strips and 
cook in the following syrup : 

I cupful of granulated sugar 
Yz cupful water 

Let boil one minute, add peel and cook until 
syrup threads. Take up with skimmer, roll in gran- 
ulated sugar, dry on wax paper and pack in paper 
lined boxes until needed. 

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE (FROM SKINS) 

Remove the brown spots from the skins, run the 
skins through the food chopper. Measure the 
quantity. Put in a kettle with water enough to a 
little more than cover and add handful of salt. Let 
come slowly to a boil and boil five minutes. Put 
in sieve and allow cold water to run through to 
remove all the bitter water. Return to kettle and 
cover as before with cold water. To three cupfuls 
of chopped skins add half cupful vinegar and five 
cupfuls sugar. Boil slowly several hours or until 



64 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

mixture is very thick. The secret is in slow boiling. 
Use all the skin, white as well as yellow. This is 
delicious in fruit cake or mince meat. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Wash well two pounds of oranges. Place them 
in granite saucepan, having fruit well covered with 
water. Boil them for three hours, turning the 
oranges often. Let them cool in the water. When 
cool, cut each orange in four parts, remove the cen- 
ter with a spoon and place in a dish until ready to 
measure. Cut the yellow peel with scissors into 
threads. Measure the pulp and shredded rind, add 
an equal amount of sugar and one additional cup- 
ful, then one cupful water; cook all together for 
ten minutes counting from the time it really boils. 
Fill glasses and cover with paraffin. Stir gently all 
the time it is boiling to keep from burning. 

ORANGE FRAPPE 

1 cupful sugar i cupful orange juice 

2 cupfuls water pulp of 4 oranges 

4 tablespoon fuls lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes. Add other 
ingredients and freeze to a mush. 

ORANGE EGG CORDIAL 

1 egg white 
I teaspoonful sugar 
juice of 1 orange 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT 65 

Beat white until frothy; add orange juice and 
sugar ; continue beating until well blended. Serve at 
once. 

ORANGE PUDDING NO. i 

2 cupfuls scalded milk J4 cupful sugar 

I cupful soft bread crumbs Yt. cupful orange juice 

4 eggs grated rind one orange 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice J4 cupful chopped almonds 

Yi teaspoonful salt 

Pour milk over the bread crumbs. Beat eggs, 
add other ingredients. When blended add bread 
and milk mixture. Steam in individual molds or 
one-half pound baking powder can three-quarters 
of an hour. Remove to serving dish. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

ORANGE ROLY POLY 

2 cupfuls flour ^ cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls lard 3 oranges cut in slices 

I teaspoonful salt Yz cupful sugar 
4 teaspoonf uls baking pow- 2 tablespoonfuls shredded 
der orange peel 

Mix flour, salt and baking powder, add lard and 
chop until fine like meal ; add milk. Shape in ob- 
long piece, spread with orange and orange peel and 
sprinkle with sugar. Roll like a jelly roll, pinch 
the edges together. Place on plate in steamer and 
steam one and a half hours. Serve with sauce. 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE NO. a 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch with one 
cupful of sugar. Add two cupfuls boiling water 



66 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

and cook twenty minutes. Add grated rind and 
juice of one orange and one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls butter. Serve hot. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE 

3 eggs I tablespoonful orange 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered juice 

sugar Yi tablespoonful lemon juice 

rind of 54 an orange >4 teaspoonful salt 

Beat the yolks until thick. Add sugar, fruit juice 
and rind. Carefully fold in beaten whites. Pour 
into buttered baking dish and bake fifteen to twenty 
minutes in nioderate oven. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE NO. i 

2 cupfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
Yz teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls lard 

3 teaspoonfuls baking i cupful milk 

powder 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add butter 
and lard and chop until thoroughly blended. Add 
milk. When thoroughly mixed, divide in halves; 
put each half into a round buttered cake tin. Wet 
knife and spread evenly over pan. Bake about 
twelve minutes in hot oven, split the cakes, butter 
them and cover with sliced oranges. Sprinkle with 
sugar. 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE NO. 3 

whites 3 eggs juice and rind of 2 oranges 

I cupful powdered sugar juice of i lemon 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFEUIT 67 

Beat whites until stiff, add sugar gradually and 
continue beating; add rind and fruit juices. 

ORANGE AND COCOANUT 

Arrange layers of sliced oranges, sprinkle well 
with desiccated cocoanut and powdered sugar. 
Serve at once. 

ORANGE PUFFS 

Ys cupful butter i% cupfuls flour 

1 cupful sugar 3 teaspoonfuls baking 

2 eggs powder 

yi cupful milk 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and eggs 
well beaten. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and 
salt ; add alternately with milk to first mixture ; turn 
into buttered gem pans, bake about thirty minutes. 
Serve with orange sauce. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

grated rind i orange i tablespoonful orange juice 

}4 teaspoonful lemon juice confectioners' sugar 

Stir the sugar into the rind and juices until thick 
enough to spread. 

ORANGE CREAM (FROZEN) 

2 cupfuls sugar i cupful cream 

1 cupful water yolks 2 eggs 

2 cupfuls orange juice i cupful heavy cream 

^ cupful shredded candied 
orange peel 



68 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Boil sugar and water eight minutes, tfien add 
orange juice. Scald cream, add yolks of eggs and 
cook over hot water until mixture thickens. Cool; 
add to first mixture with heavy cream beaten stiff. 
Freeze; when nearly frozen, add the orange peel. 

ORANGE CUSTARD 

Arrange sliced oranges in glass dish, pour over 
them boiled custard. Serve very cold. 

BOILED CUSTARD 

2 cupfuls scalded milk % cupful sugar 
yolks 3 eggs J^ teaspoonful salt 

J4 teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt and beat 
again. Pour the hot milk on the eggs, stirring all 
the time. Cook in double boiler until a coating is 
formed on the spoon, strain immediately, chill and 
flavor, 

ORANGE DELIGHT 

3 large seedless oranges ii cupfuls water 

I large lemon 4 pounds granulated sugar 

Slice oranges and lemon very thin, pour the water 
over the sliced fruit and set away for twenty-four 
hours ; then boil slowly for one hour. After boiling 
add the sugar and set away for twenty-four hours 
longer, then boil one hour and twenty-five minutes. 
Pour into glasses and cover with paraffin. It will 
keep for years and is delicious used as honey. 



ORANGES AND GRAPEFEUIT 69 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE 

Ys box gelatin 3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

J^ cupful cold water i cupful orange juice and 

3^ cupful boiling water pulp 

whites of 3 eggs whip from 2 cupfuls of 

I cupful sugar cream 

Soak gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling 
water, strain, add sugar, lemon juice, orange juice 
and pulp. Chill in pan of ice water. When quite 
thick, beat with wire spoon until frothy, then add 
whites of eggs beaten stiff and fold in cream. Line 
a mold with sections of oranges, turn in mixture 
and chill. 

ORANGE CAKE FILLING 

J^ cupful sugar J4 cupful orange juice 

2^ tablespoonfuls flour Yz tablespoonful lemon juice 

grated rind Y orange i &gg beaten slightly 

I teaspoonful butter 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cook ten min- 
utes in double boiler, stirring constantly. Cool be- 
fore spreading. 

BAKED ORANGE SOUFFLE PUDDING 

Beat one- fourth of a cupful of butter to a cream ; 
add gradually one-fourth cupful of sugar, then 
the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and half a cup- 
ful of flour sifted with one level teaspoonful of 
baking powder ; lastly, add the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a shallow pan. 



70 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Mix four level tablespoon fuls of cornstarch with 
one cupful of sugar and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt; pour over this one cupful of orange juice 
and the juice of a lemon scalding hot; let cook over 
the fire until the mixture boils, then over hot water 
ten minutes ; add one egg beaten very light without 
separating, and, when the egg is cooked, pour over 
the cake. Beat the whites of three eggs until dry, 
then beat in gradually four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, fold in three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and spread upon the cake and custard. Brown deli- 
cately in a slow oven. It will take about eight min- 
utes. 

ORANGE AND CUSTARD 

3 cupfuls milk J4 teaspoonful salt 

2 eggs J^ cupful sugar 

J^ cupful boiled rice orange peel 

Carefully boil, for a minute, a few pieces of 
orange peel with the milk and rice. Beat egg yolks 
with the sugar and salt, remove the orange peel, add 
sugar mixture and stir until thickened. Then re- 
move from the heat and chill. Just before serving 
beat the egg whites stiff with a dash of salt, a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar and a little orange 
juice. Pile on the custard and sprinkle lightly with 
candied orange peel. 

ORANGE FLUFF 

Put in a double boiler one well-beaten egg yolk, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, a quarter of a cupful of 



ORANGES AND GEAPEFRUIT 71 

orange juice, and cook until the mixture thickens, 
stirring to keep smooth. Strain and beat into the 
whipped white of the egg until the mixture is 
creamy. 

ORANGEADE 

Make a syrup, boiling one cupful of sugar and 
two cupfuls of water twelve minutes, add one-half 
cupful of orange juice. Cool, and dilute with ice 
water to suit the taste or pour over crushed ice. 

ORANGE BREAD PUDDING 
(Single Portion) 

Soak half a cupful of stale bread crumbs in a 
quarter of a cupful of milk until soft, beating lightly 
with fork; add the grated rind and juice of an 
orange and sweeten to taste. Whip the white of an 
egg very light and add it to this mixture ; pour into 
a custard cup, set in a pan of water, and bake until 
firm. 

DELICIOUS ORANGE PUDDING 

Cover two small oranges, peeled and cut in bits, 
with three-quarters cupful sugar. Let stand for at 
least one hour. Prepare a very thick cream by 
scalding in a double boiler one and one-half cup- 
fuls milk, three-eighths cupful sugar and pinch of 
salt, thickening with three heaping teaspoonfuls 
flour mixed smoothly with the yolk of one egg and 
sufficient cold milk or water to moisten. Cook for 
five minutes or longer. When cream is cold com- 
bine the two mixtures and cover the top with a me- 



72 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

ringue made as follows: White of one egg, one 
tablespoonful of cold water, one-third teaspoonful 
of baking powder, a few grains of salt, beaten to a 
stiff froth with silver fork. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and beat again until it will stand alone. 
Brown in a slow oven. Serve cold. 

STEAMED ORANGE PUDDING 

Pour a cupful and a half of scalded single cream, 
or rich milk, over one cupful of grated bread 
crumbs. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter, and let 
stand fifteen minutes. Beat four eggs with one- 
fourth of a cupful of sugar. Add the grated rind 
and juice of one orange and half a lemon and stir 
into the bread mixture. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped almonds and turn into buttered timbale 
molds, decorated with candied orange peel. Steam 
one hour. Serve hot with strawberries cut in 
halves, sugared generously, and chilled; or serve 
the pudding with a hard sauce. 

ORANGE CUSTARD PIE 

Into one cupful of granulated sugar stir two ta- 
blespoonfuls of pastry flour and a pinch of salt. 
Mix well, add grated rind and juice of one orange 
and the juice of one lemon with the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs. Then add one cupful of milk 
and lastly fold in the beaten whites of two eggs. 
Use one crust and bake in rather a slow oven about 
thirty-five minutes. 



ORANaES AND GRAPEFRUIT 73 

ORANGE SQUARES 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin % cupful boiling water 

3^2 cupful of cold water J4 cupful candied orange or 

2 cupfuls granulated sugar lemon peel 

Soak the gelatin ten minutes. Put sugar and 
boiling water in saucepan and when sugar is dis- 
solved, add the gelatin. Boil gently until it threads. 
Then remove from the fire and add the peel cut 
in small pieces. Turn into pan rinsed in cold water. 
Let stand five or six hours to harden. Cut in squares 
and roll in granulated sugar and harden. 

ORANGE NUT SALAD 

1 banana lettuce 

2 oranges J4 cupful nut meats 

French dressing 

Remove skin from banana, cut in quarters length- 
wise and again crosswise, roll in nut meats finely 
chopped. Peel oranges, cut in slices crosswise, in- 
sert a cube of banana in center of each slice. Ar- 
range on a bed of lettuce, sprinkle over remainder 
of pecans and French dressing. This will make 
eight portions. 

GRAPEFRUIT PIE 

4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch i grapefruit 

1 teaspoonful melted butter i cupful hot water 

2 eggs I orange 

I cupful sugar 



74 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

Blend the cornstarch with just enough cold water 
to make a paste, stir into this the melted butter, the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, juice and grated rind of a 
large orange, the same of a medium sized grape- 
fruit, the hot water and sugar. Put into a double 
boiler, cook until thick, stirring constantly, turn into 
a baked crust, cover with a meringue and brown 
lightly. Serve cold. 

ORANGE PUDDING NO. 2 

Peel and slice a half dozen oranges, over which 
sift one cupful of sugar. Boil one pint of milk and 
thickfen with one tablespoon ful of dissolved corn- 
starch. Add the beaten yolks of three eggs just 
before removing from the stove. Pour this mix- 
ture over the oranges. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with a little sugar, for a meringue, and brown deli- 
cately. 

GRAPEFRUIT AND RICE 

One cupful of freshly boiled rice, one tablespoon- 
ful of granulated gelatin, two tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar, and one pint of whipping cream. 
Soak the gelatin in four tablespoonfuls of cold 
water for fifteen minutes, set over hot water until 
gelatin is thoroughly dissolved. Add sugar and 
rice and when perfectly cold carefully mix in the 
cream, whipped stiff. Fill a mold — a border mold 
makes an attractive shape — and stand aside to set. 
When ready to serve unmold rice, arrange full sec- 



ORANGES AND GEAPEFEUIT 75 

tion of grapefruit around the mold and pour sauce 
in center. 

Sauce: Rub three lumps of loaf sugar on the 
outside of a well-washed orange until as much as 
possible of the oil in orange peel is absorbed. Cook 
together one cupful of sugar, including the three 
lumps, and one-half cupful of water until the syrup 
spins a heavy thread ; it will take about ten minutes. 
Take from the fire ; when cool add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of some other fruit juice and two table- 
spoonfuls of finely cut candied orange peel. 

ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING 

One-half cupful butter, one cupful sugar, one- 
half cupful milk, two and one-quarter cupfuls flour, 
three and one-half teaspoon fuls baking powder, and 
the whites of four eggs. Combine the above in- 
gredients in the order given and steam together for 
thirty minutes. When ready to serve, cut in slices 
and serve with a thick layer of whipped cream on 
which a spoonful of orange marmalade has been 
placed. 

ORANGE AND HONEY MARMALADE 

Peel the required amount of oranges and boil the 
peel in water until tender. Then cut into strips and 
remove the seeds from the juice and pulp of the 
oranges. To two cupfuls of the juice and pulp al- 
low one cupful of strained honey and half a cupful 
of orange peel. 



76 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Place it with the honey in a preserving pan and 
boil all together for about half an hour, or until 
the marmalade has reached the proper consistency. 
Put it into glasses and when cold cover with melted 
wax, 

FROZEN ORANGE PUDDING 

Prepare a rich boiled custard by slowly heating 
a pint of milk in the double boiler, adding two well- 
beaten eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar; stir 
until it thickens; remove from the fire and flavor 
with the juice of one orange and the grated yellow 
rind. While this is cooling, peel two oranges, and, 
removing pits and every particle of white skin, flake 
the pulp into small bits with a silver fork ; sprinkle 
liberally with powdered sugar. To the cold custard 
add a half pint of sweetened whipped cream and 
turn at once into the freezer, stirring in when half 
frozen the prepared orange pulp and a small cup- 
ful of grated macaroon crumbs ; continue the freez- 
ing until very stiff and then pack in a melon mold. 
Unmold on a large platter, decorating with stars 
of whipped cream pressed through a pastry tube 
and minced candied orange peel. 

ORANGE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak one-half box of gelatin in one-half cupful 
of cold water, then dissolve in one-half cupful of 
boiling water, add one-half cupful of sugar. When 
cool add two cupfuls of orange juice and pulp. 
When beginning to jelly stir in one pint of stiffly 



OEANGES AND GEAPEFEUIT 77 

whipped cream. Beat until stiff enough to mold. 
Pour into a wet mold and serve with cream. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE NO. 2 

Remove the skin and bitter white covering of 
three oranges; slice lengthwise, rejecting the seeds 
and tough center. Add the juice of half a lemon 
and powdered sugar to sweeten, then stand aside 
until needed. About half an hour before serving 
mix and sift together two cupfuls of sifted flour, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one tablespoonful 
of baking powder. With the tips of the fingers 
work in a fourth of a cup of butter, then mix to a 
soft dough with two-thirds of a cupful of milk. 
Spread the mixture evenly over a well-buttered lay- 
er cake pan, brush the top with melted butter, sprin- 
kle with a tablespoonful of sugar and bake at once 
in a quick oven. Whip one cupful of rich cream 
until stiff, add a fourth of a cupful of sugar and 
flavor with vanilla. When the shortcake is done 
turn it into a pudding dish, cover with the oranges 
and heap the whipped cream roughly over all. 
Serve at once. 

ORANGE SAUCE FOR CROQUETTES 

Cut the peel of one orange in thin slices, boil 
until tender. To two tablespoonfuls of hot butter 
add three tablespoonfuls of flour and cook until 
smooth; add gradually three-quarters of a cupful 
of stock, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, dash of 



78 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

pepper, and one-half cupful of currant jelly. Cook 
thoroughly, then add orange juice and peel. 

ORANGE AND DATE SALAD 

One pound of dates and four large oranges. 
Separate dates, cover with boiling water, cook for 
three minutes. Drain, and when dried in the oven, 
cool. Stone and cut in halves lengthwise. Halve 
the oranges and cut out the sections of pulp. Ar- 
range crisp lettuce leaves on a platter, pile the 
oranges in the center and surround with dates. 
Serve with French dressing. 

ORANGE SPONGE 

One cupful of sugar, juice six or eight oranges, 
juice one-half lemon, one ounce gelatin, one-half 
cupful cold water, one-half cupful boiling water, 
whites four eggs, salt. Soak gelatin in cold water, 
then dissolve in hot water, strain into sugar, cool 
to smooth syrupy consistency. Beat whites stiff, 
then beat into fruit mixture. Blend and mold. 

ORANGE JELLY WITH BANANA CREAM 

Cover one ounce of gelatin with one-half cupful 
of cold water and add the grated rind of a deep- 
colored orange. When soft, stir in one cupful of 
boiling water and one cupful of sugar, then stir in 
two cupfuls of orange juice, strain through a dou- 
ble thickness of cheesecloth and turn into a border 
mold. Press two bananas through a sieve, add one 



ORANGES AND GEAPEFRUIT 79 

tablespoonful of lemon juice, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, beat with a silver fork until 
very light and fold in one gill of cream whipped 
until stiff. Turn the jelly from the mold and fill 
the center with the banana cream. 



GRAPEFRUIT GELATIN 

Put two heaping tablespoonfuls of powdered gel- 
atin into a saucepan, add one and a half cupfuls of 
water, half a cupful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice, and three cupfuls of grapefruit juice 
and pulp. Stir over the fire until they almost boil, 
then strain. Divide into small wet molds. Turn 
out when set. Serve with whipped and sweetened 
cream. 

ORANGE AND GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 

One large grapefruit, two large navel oranges, 
one lemon, five pounds sugar, eighteen cupfuls cold 
water. Wash the fruit, cut it into very thin slices 
and cut the slices into narrow strips. Use every 
part of the fruit but the cores and seeds. Cover 
the fruit with the water and let stand twenty-four 
hours. Boil it rapidly, uncovered, for ten minutes 
and let it stand another twenty-four hours. Bring 
it to boiling point, add the sugar and boil it two 
hours, or until the jelly point is reached. The cook- 
ing should be done in a broad, shallow, uncovered 
pan. 



80 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

ORANGES WITH CRANBERRY SAUCE 

I cupful of cranberries 2 cupfuls of water 

I cupful of sugar 2 oranges 

Wash and pick over the cranberries; put on to 
boil with two cupfuls of water; put over a very hot 
fire, so they will boil at once. Cover for a few min- 
utes, remove the cover, and mash; add the sugar, 
and boil for three minutes. Mash through a colan- 
der first, and then through a fine strainer ; set aside 
to get very cold. Pare the oranges as you would 
apples, remove all of the white. Chip the oranges 
very fine; put into sherbet glasses, and pour over 
them the cranberry juice. 



IX. LEMONS 

LEMON PIE FILLING NO. i 

Let a slice of bread (the crust removed and the 
bread crumbled fine) soak in a cupful of water; 
beat until smooth, then add a cupful of sugar, the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon, the yolks of two 
eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
When baked cover with a meringue made with the 
whites of two eggs and five tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar and half a teaspoonful of lemon ex- 
tract. 

LEMON PIE FILLING NO. 2 

One lemon, one half cupful (small) of butter, 
two cupfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of sweet 
milk, three eggs. Grate lemon and rub into the 
sugar and butter, then add yolks of eggs, then the 
milk, then whites of eggs beaten stiff; last of all, 
the juice of lemon. Mix in order given. 

LEMON PIE FILLING NO. 3 

Two lemons, grated rind of one, juice of both, 
two cupfuls of sugar, two eggs, two cupfuls of hot 
water, six rolled soda crackers. Bake with a top 
crust. 

81 



82 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

LEMON CHEESE PIE 

Four eggs, one pound cottage cheese, one lemon, 
one and one-half cupfuls sugar. Beat the whites 
and yolks of the eggs separately. To the beaten 
yolks add the sugar, beating thoroughly, then add 
the grated rind and the juice of the lemon. Pass 
the cheese through a colander and then add it, beat- 
ing again thoroughly. Lastly, stir in the beaten 
whites. Line a pie tin with a raw pie crust, pour 
in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PUDDING 

Two cupfuls milk, three-quarters cupful sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls cornstarch, two tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice, one teaspoonful grated lemon rind, 
pinch salt, three crackers or four tablespoonfuls 
cake crumbs. Put milk on in top of double boiler ; 
add cornstarch, which has been wet with a little 
cold water, the sugar, salt and juice and grated 
rind of lemon. Stir constantly until it thickens; 
set aside to cool. Put cracker or cake crumbs in 
bottom of a glass bowl and pour over them the 
cooled mixture. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES 

Warm four ounces of butter, grate the peel of 
two lemons; add four ounces of powdered sugar 
and a few almonds. Mix all together, adding the 
juice of one of the lemons; pour into patty pans 



LEMONS 83 

lined with a good puff paste. Bake fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes. 

LEMON BUTTER 

I cupful of water 3 tablespoonfuls of lemon 

Yi. cupful of sugar juice 

I tablespoonful of flour i teaspoonful of grated 

1 egg lemon rind 

Put the water on to boil; add the flour, which 
has been mixed with a little cold water until smooth. 
Boil for ten minutes ; then add the ^^^, which has 
been beaten with the sugar and salt. Bring to a 
boil; remove from the fire; add the juice and rind 
of lemon and beat for two minutes. When cold 
fill into tart shells or spread on toasted bread. 

SPICED LEMON SAUCE 

I cupful boiling water ij4 tablespoonfuls lemon 

J4 cupful sugar juice 

ij^ tablespoonfuls flour 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

J4 teaspoonful grated nut- 
meg 

Mix sugar and flour until well blended, add water 

gradually, stirring continuously ; cook five minutes, 

remove from fire, add butter, lemon juice, and 

spice, and beat until smooth. Serve with cottage 

pudding. 

LEMON JELLY 

Two tablespoonfuls gelatin, one-half cupful cold 
water, two and one-half cupfuls boiling water, one 
cupful sugar, one-half cupful lemon juice. Soak 



84 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKEEY 

gelatin ten minutes in the cold water, then dis- 
solve in boiling water, strain and add the sugar 
and lemon juice. 

LEMON PEARS 

Use seven pounds of fruit. Pare, core and chop 
the pears fine, add six pounds of sugar and set on 
stove for sugar to melt. Add juice and grated rind 
of four lemons. Put the grated rind and two 
ounces of ginger root, cut up fine, in a small bag 
and let all cook slowly three hours, or until thick 
like marmalade. Stir often to prevent sticking to 
kettle. Put up in jelly tumblers when done. 

LEMON CREAM 

Gelatin, six cupfuls boiling water, two-thirds 
cupful sugar, five tablespoon fuls condensed milk, 
one egg, one-half cupful lemon juice (two mediurh 
sized lemons.) Use amount of gelatin ordinarily 
required to make two quarts of jelly and soften it 
in a little cold water. Stir it into the boiling water, 
remove from stove and add sugar, condensed milk 
and egg (which has been thoroughly beaten) and 
stir till well blended. Return to stove and let come 
to boil (just enough to scald the egg), stirring to 
prevent scorching. Remove from stove, add lemon 
juice, pour into mold and set away to harden. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



LEMONS 85 

LEMON SAGO 

Half cupful of sago, the juice of two lemons and 
rind of one, one ounce of maple syrup, about one- 
half cupful sugar. Soak sago and cook in double 
boiler until soft, add juice of lemon and grated 
rind, then add the syrup and cook a few minutes. 
Set in a mold. Serve with boiled custard. 

LEMON ICE 

One quart of water, four lemons, two and one- 
half cupfuls of sugar, one orange. Boil the sugar 
and water for ten minutes; strain it and add the 
juice of the lemons and orange ; cool and freeze. 

BUTTERMILK LEMON PIE 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, 
one cupful buttermilk, one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls butter, one tablespoonful cornstarch and the 
juice and grated rind of two lemons. Add a slight 
pinch of salt to the yolks and beat until very stiff, 
add the buttermilk, sugar, butter, lemons and the 
cornstarch. The cornstarch should be mixed with 
a small quantity of the buttermilk to keep it from 
lumping. Cook this filling until quite thick, fill the 
pie crust, beat a meringue from the whites of eggs, 
spread over top and place in oven until delicately 
browned. 



86 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

LEMON RAISIN PIE 

One large cupful seeded and chopped raisins. 
Turn two cupfuls of hot water on the raisins and 
cook ten minutes. Beat yolks of two eggs, one cup- 
ful sugar, one rounding tablespoonful of flour and 
juice and grated rind of one large lemon, together. 
Mix this with the raisins when you take them from 
the fire. Bake with two crusts. Let the filling cool 
before filling the pie. Dates can be used instead of 
raisins. 

LEMON CREAM SAUCE 

One Ggg yolk, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
of butter, one-third cupful of thick sweet cream, 
one-half cupful of water, a pinch of salt. Beat the 
yolk, add the sugar, lemon juice, salt, water and 
butter. Cook in a double boiler until very thick 
and chill. Then add the cream, mix well, and use 
at once. 

LEMON COCOANUT CREAM FILLING 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cupful 
powdered sugar, yolks of two eggs, one cupful 
shredded cocoanut. Mix lemon juice and rind with 
sugar and yolks of eggs slightly beaten; cook ten 
minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly; then 
add the shredded cocoanut. Cool and use as a fill- 
ing between layers of plain cake. 



LEMONS 87 

STEAMED LEMON PUDDING 

Cook three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, grated 
rind of one lemon and a quarter cupful of butter, 
two minutes. Add one cupful sugar and three eggs, 
slightly beaten. Cook until mixture thickens. Cool. 
Spread this mixture on slices of bread and butter 
and arrange in baking dish. When dish is full pour 
over all one cupful of milk to which a pinch of salt 
and three tablespoonfuls of sugar have been added. 
Cover and set in a pan of hot water and bake one 
hour. 

LEMONADE 

Boil two cupfuls of sugar and four cupfuls of 
water until a rich syrup is formed. Add one cupful 
lemon juice. Dilute with ice water. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

Pick over and soak four tablespoonfuls of Irish 
moss in cold water to cover for half an hour; drain, 
cover with two cupfuls of cold water and cook ten 
minutes, strain, add three tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice and sugar syrup to taste. 



X. PINEAPPLE 



PINEAPPLE CREAM 



I can sliced pineapple J^ teaspoonful vanilla 

I cupful heavy cream J4 cupful very finely 

J4 cupful powdered sugar chopped walnuts 

Drain the syrup from the pineapple. Whip the 
cream, add powdered sugar, vanilla and chopped 
nut meats. Spread this cream betw^een the slices of 
pineapple. Garnish the top with whipped cream 
and nut meats. 

PINEAPPLE WHIP 

J4 box gelatin y^ cupful sugar 

I can grated pineapple i pint cream 

Soak the gelatin in as little cold water as pos- 
sible. Mix pineapple and sugar together and bring 
to a boil. Add gelatin and let stand (about three 
hours) until it begins to get stiff. Then beat in the 
whipped cream. Serve, very cold, in tall glasses 
with a maraschino cherry on top of each. This 
recipe will serve six persons. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Arrange slices of Hawaiian pineapple on a salad 
plate and over them grate a little nutmeg. In the 

88 



PINEAPPLE 89 

center of each slice make a cup of tiny lettuce leaves 
and in this lay a smaller piece of pineapple, on top 
of which place a pimola or ball of cream cheese. 
Pour French dressing over all. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

I cupful pearl tapioca juice i lemon 

J4 cupful cold water ij^ cupfuls sugar 

I can pineapple 3 egg whites 

Soak the tapioca over night in plenty of water. 
Drain and add cold water, the juice from the can 
of pineapple and from the lemon. Then cook in a 
double boiler until clear. Add the sugar to this, 
then the pineapple, chopped fine, and lastly, pour 
over the egg-whites, beaten stiff. Chill and serve 
with cream or custard. This can be made from 
fresh pineapple, if stewed and not too sweet. It 
will serve twelve people and will keep two or three 
days. 

PINEAPPLE SHORTCAKE 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of powdered 
sugar, two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of milk, 
whites of four eggs, a little salt. Cream butter and 
sugar, add milk and beat hard before putting in 
the whites of the eggs. Sift two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar and one of soda in the flour, beating 
lightly. 

Filling and Icing: Boil one cupful of granulated 
sugar and one- fourth cupful of pineapple juice care- 
fully strained, for six minutes, after adding one 



90 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

teaspoonful of lemon juice. Beat the white of an 
egg to a stiff froth, add the boiled syrup gradually 
to it, whipping the mixture as the syrup is added 
with the egg whip. Beat six minutes longer and 
ice the cake thickly. For filling add enough finely 
chopped pineapple to the icing to make it moist and 
thick. 

PINEAPPLE FLUFF 

Turn one can of grated pineapple over one-half 
pound of marshmallows and let stand over night, 
then add one pint of whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE AND RHUBARB MARMALADE 

Three cupfuls rhubarb peeled and cut in small 
pieces, six slices canned pineapple cut in small 
pieces, four cupfuls granulated sugar, the juice of 
one orange and one lemon. Add the peel cut fine. 
Cook slowly, stirring carefully about one-half hour. 
Add one-fourth pound blanched almonds chopped 
fine about five minutes before it is done. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of five eggs and add to them one- 
half cupful of sugar and the contents of a can of 
grated pineapple. Wet small timbale cups with cold 
water and fill with the pineapple mixture. Set in a 
pan of hot water, cover, put in the oven and bake 
steadily, but not too fast, until the custard is set, 
being careful that it cooks only to firmness and 
not long enough for the custard to break. Set aside 



PINEAPPLE 91 

until cold, turn out on a flat dish and surround 
with whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD PIE 

Line a deep pie plate with paste. For filling, mix 
three eggs, one-half cupful sugar, one-eighth tea- 
spoonful salt, a little nutmeg, four tablespoon fuls 
of grated pineapple and two cupfuls milk. Bake 
in slow oven until firm. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 

One cupful chopped pineapple, two-thirds cup- 
ful sugar and one cupful water. Cook these ten 
minutes and strain. Into this hot juice dissolve 
one envelope gelatin. When cool beat into it one 
cupful heavy cream well whipped. If you use the 
fresh pineapple allow one cupful sugar. Put in a 
mold and set away in a cool place. 

PRESERVED. PINEAPPLE 

Peel and remove eyes from pineapple. Cut into 
small pieces. To one quart of pineapple allow one 
pint of water and one-half pound of sugar. Boil 
sugar and water for fifteen minutes, then cook 
pineapple in syrup for twenty minutes. Fill jars 
and seal. 

PINEAPPLE AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

Slice thin six sweet oranges and four limes. Cut 
fine, or shred with silver fork, a medium-sized pine- 



92 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

apple (about three pounds) from which rind has 
been cut. Add to other fruits and pineapple rind. 
For each pound of fruit allow one quart of water. 
Cook one hour. Then let stand twenty- four hours. 
Cook again until rind is tender. Let cool, weigh, 
add equal weight of sugar and cook until mixture 
jellies. Turn into glasses and seal. 



PINEAPPLE, STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY 
CONSERVE 

One quart pitted cherries, one quart hulled straw- 
berries, one large shredded pineapple, three pounds 
of sugar and one-half pound chopped English wal- 
nut meats. Put fruit in saucepan and bring slowly 
to a boil. Add sugar and nuts and boil mixture 
about five minutes. Skim out fruit and cook syrup 
until it is thoroughly heated. Fill glasses or small 
jars and seal. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler, pour 
it over the beaten yolks of six eggs, add one cupful 
of sugar, return to the double boiler and cook until 
the custard coats the spoon. Chill, add one pint of 
grated pineapple and the juice of a quarter of a 
lemon; turn into the freezer; pack in ice and salt 
and frfeeze in the usual manner. 



PINEAPPLE 93 

PINEAPPLE TARTS 

Beat the yolks of two eggs and add one-half cup- 
ful of sugar, the juice and grated rind of half a 
lemon, a dash of salt and one cupful of grated pine- 
apple. Turn into patty pans lined with paste and 
bake in a moderate oven. Cool, cover with the 
whites of the eggs, beaten until stiff and sweetened 
with two tablespoon fuls of powdered sugar, and 
brown delicately. Serve cold. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

Make a syrup by boiling one and one-quarter cup- 
fuls of sugar to a pint of water for ten minutes. 
Add contents of one can of grated pineapples. When 
cool, add juice of four lemons and one cupful of 
strawberry juice. Strain, add five or six cupfuls of 
ice-water, according to taste, and garnish with 
whole strawberries, sprigs of mint and diced fresh 
or canned pineapple, as desired. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE 

Four tablespoonfuls of crushed pineapple, one 
cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful of butter, four 
eggs, two ounces of flour and two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, 
and cook for two minutes, add the milk, and stir 
until the flour is thoroughly cooked. Remove from 



94 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the fire, add sugar and the pineapple, stir and allow 
to cool a little. Stir in the yolks of the eggs, one 
at a time. Add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Pour into a mold that has been dec- 
orated with pieces of pineapple, cover with a but- 
tered paper and steam gently for fifty minutes. 
Remove the paper, turn out onto a hot dish and 
garnish with some pieces of pineapple. Serve with 
some of the juice. 

PINEAPPLE PARFAIT 

Boil one cupful of sugar and half a cupful of 
grated pineapple, pulp and juice, or juice alone, 
until the syrup threads from the tip of a spoon. 
Pour, in a fine stream, onto the white of one egg, 
beaten until foamy, and, when all is added, beat 
occasionally until cold, then fold into one cupful of 
double cream, beaten solid. 

BAKED PINEAPPLE 

8 slices pineapple 2 teaspoonfuls butter 

6 graham crackers pineapple juice 

Butter a baking dish and cover the bottom with 
graham crackers, finely crumbed. Then put in a 
layer of sliced canned pineapple, keeping the slices 
whole. Dot with butter and add another layer of 
crumbs, continuing in this way until all is used. 
Pour over the pineapple juice and bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Either canned pineapple or fresh 



PINEAPPLE 95 

cooked pineapple and juice may be used in this 
recipe. 

PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE 

Take two and one-half teaspoon fuls of granu- 
lated gelatin, one-third cupful of cold water, one- 
third cupful of boiling water, one cupful of sugar, 
the strained juice of four lemons, one can of sliced 
pineapple and juice, two cupfuls of whipped cream 
and the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Mix the 
gelatin with the cold water and leave for ten min- 
utes, then add the boiling water and dissolve over 
the fire. Take from the fire and add the lemon 
juice, chopped pineapple and juice. Chill and beat 
until foamy, then add the whites of eggs and cream. 
Turn into a wet mold and set in a cool place over 
night. Serve with milk or cream. 

FRUIT SALAD 

6 slices fresh or canned 6 strawberries 

pineapple honey salad dressing or 

I large orange French fruit salad 

I banana dressing 

sprigs of fresh mint 

Wash and crisp the mint, arrange, stem-ends to- 
ward the center, on iridividual salad plates. Place 
a slice of pineapple on each bed of mint, on this put 
a slice of orange, then a layer of banana sliced into 
disks. Pour over it the salad dressing, and top 
with a strawberry. If fresh pineapple is used, it 
should be sprinkled with sugar and allowed to stand 
in a cold place for at least an hour. 



96 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKEEY 

PINEAPPLE SNOW 

One can of chopped pineapple, one-half box of 
gelatin dissolved in one pint of cold water; add 
juice of pineapple and let come to boil. Two cup- 
fuls of sugar and juice of two lemons beaten until 
light. Pour hot gelatin over mixture and stir well, 
then add pineapple. Put in cold place and let stand 
until it thickens a little, then add whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff. Beat ten minutes, mold and 
serve with whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

To a quart of pineapple jelly, which has stiffened 
to a syrupy consistency, add the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs. Beat together until the surface will 
hold a drop of the mixture, turn into eggshells from 
which one end has been cut, having first moistened 
them with ice cold water. When the sponge is firm, 
remove the shells and serve in a bed of whipped 
cream with a garnish of candied cherries. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

Scald one pint of milk in a double boiler; add 
one tablespoon ful of flour smoothly blended with a 
little cold milk and stir until slightly thickened; 
then cover and cook for fifteen minutes. Beat well 
together three eggs and one cupful of sugar. Add 
to the scalded milk, stir until the sugar is dissolved 
and the custard thickened, add a pinch of salt, take 



PINEAPPLE 97 

from the fire, strain and cool. Peel, eye and finely 
chop a good-sized pineapple. Add this to the cus- 
tard with one pint of rich cream, turn into the 
packed freezer and freeze, repack and set aside for 
at least two hours to ripen. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

One quart of sugar and one quart of water made 
into a syrup and set aside to cool. Add to this cold 
syrup the juice of four lemons and one can of grated 
pineapple; strain and put in the freezer. Beat the 
whites of two eggs, add two spoonfuls of white 
sugar, beat into a meringue, and add just before 
freezing. This makes one gallon. 

PINEAPPLE COCKTAIL 

I pineapple Yt, cupful orange juice 

I cupful sugar J^ cupful grapefruit juice 

^ cupful water pink color paste 

Cut fresh pineapple in one-half inch slices, then 
in cylinders, using an apple-corer. Put in cocktail 
glasses and cover with syrup. For syrup boil sugar 
and water three minutes, cool, add orange and 
grapefruit juice, and color a delicate pink with a 
small amount of color paste. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS NO. i 

Pare and grate a pineapple and drain oflf the 
juice. Mix the juice with the beaten yolk of an 
^gg, a pinch of salt, a tablespoon ful of melted but- 
ter, two cupfuls of sifted flour and enough water 



98 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKEBY 

to make a batter that will drop from the spoon, add 
the grated pineapple and the stiffly beaten white of 
an egg. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, fry brown, 
drain, sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve. 
Canned pineapple can be used with both of these 
recipes. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS NO. 2 

Pare and slice a pineapple or use the canned. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar, drain, dip in cake 
crumbs, then in fritter batter, fry brown, drain and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Three cupfuls granulated sugar, two cupfuls 
water. Stir until sugar is dissolved, then boil five 
minutes. Add the juice of one good-sized lemon 
and one large pineapple. Put it through the food 
chopper first, then press the juice out in vegetable 
press. In this way every bit of juice is extracted. 
The juice from one can of pineapple might be used 
as well. Keep the mixture all together in a large 
bowl standing in a vessel of cold water until cool, 
then pour into freezer. When partly frozen add 
the stiffly beaten white of one egg and continue 
freezing. Let stand an hour or so to ripen. 

PINEAPPLE MOLD 

6 slices of pineapple yi pint of whipping cream 

1 gill of water i tablespoonful of sugar 

2 heaping tablespoonf uls of some custard sauce 

powdered gelatin. 



PINEAPPLE 99 

Chop the pineapple fine. Beat up the cream and 
mix it with the pineapple, adding sugar. Dissolve 
the gelatin in the water over the fire, and strain 
into the other ingredients. Mix well and pour into 
a wet mold. When firm, turn out and serve with 
custard sauce. 

CANNING PINEAPPLES 

The complete sterilization of scalding in boiling 
water of jars, rubbers, covers and all utensils used 
in the process of canning pineapple is necessary to 
insure preservation of the fruit. Pare pineapple 
with a silver knife, removing the eyes, and grate or 
shred with a silver fork. Weigh the fruit, and to 
every pound allow three-fourths of a pound of sug- 
ar. Mix fruit and sugar and bring quickly to the 
boiling point in a porcelain-lined preserving kettle. 
Cook slowly fifteen minutes, can and seal. If pine- 
apple is sliced for canning, cook in boiling water 
until tender, then make a syrup of the water and 
sugar. Boil the fruit a second time and seal in the 
usual way. 

PINEAPPLE TOAST 

One can of sliced pineapple, one large sponge 
cake, three heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, a few 
drops of red coloring, and some glace cherries. Cut 
the sponge cake into slices a quarter of an inch in 
thickness. Melt the butter in a small frying pan, 
and when hot, put in the slices of cake and brown 
them lightly on both sides. Drain on sugared paper 



100 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

and allow them to cool. Then arrange the slices 
neatly on a dish, with the pineapple cut in pieces 
on the top. Take the syrup from the can, add the 
red coloring, and pour this over all. Decorate with 
glace cherries. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY WITH SOFT CUSTARD 

Beat yolks of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
sugar, salt. Pour over this one pint hot milk. Cook 
slowly until it thickens. Soak three-quarters box 
gelatin in one-half cupful cold water. Dissolve it 
in one and one-half cupfuls boiling water, add one 
cupful sugar and one-half cupful lemon juice. When 
partly hardened stir in one-half can grated pine- 
apple or one small can and whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff. 

PINEAPPLE DELIGHT 

One can pineapple chopped or grated, tablespoon- 
ful granulated gelatin, one-half pound marshmal- 
lows, one-quarter pound walnut meats, two egg 
whites, sugar to taste. Drain juice from pineapple, 
add water to make a pint of liquid; sweeten. Dis- 
solve gelatin in very little water, add to above and 
bring to boiling point. Cut marshmallows into 
small pieces with scissors and add to hot liquid. 
When gelatin commences to congeal, add pine- 
apple, broken nut meat and whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. When cold, serve with whipped cream and 
garnish with maraschino cherries. 



PINEAPPLE 101 

PINEAPPLE SORBET 

4 oranges i quart of milk 

2 lemons i pint cream 

2J5/1 cupfuls sugar J^ cupful powdered sugar 

whites of 2 eggs i can shredded pineapple 

Squeeze the juice of lemons and oranges into a 
bowl, add the granulated sugar, then add the shred- 
ded pineapple. Place this mixture in your freezer 
and turn until it begins to freeze. Remove top from 
freezer and add the beaten whites of eggs, to which 
has been added the powdered sugar. Lastly add 
the cream and milk, and freeze and pack until ready 
to serve. 

PINEAPPLE AND COCOANUT DESSERT 

Turn the contents of a can of pineapple chunks 
in the serving dish, cut the pieces much smaller and 
sprinkle over them four tablespoonfuls of shredded 
cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, adding about a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Cover closely and let stand in 
a cool place till needed. Over night will improve 
the taste and soften the cocoanut. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE CREAM PIE 

I can of Hawaiian crushed % cupful of butter 

pineapple 2 eggs 

2j^ cupfuls of flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
ij4 cupfuls of sugar powder 

Drain the pineapple, beat the butter to a cream, 
add yolks of eggs, beat and gradually add the sug- 



102 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

ar. When very light add the pineapple juice. Mix 
the baking powder and flour and sift twice. Add 
them to the first mixture, beat the whites, stir them 
in carefully last and bake the mixture in three 
layers. 

To make the filling, put a pint of milk in a double 
boiler, add a level tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
moisten in one-fourth cupful of cold milk, cook five 
minutes, add the yolks of two eggs beaten with 
one-fourth cupful of sugar. Cook a moment, take 
from the fire, beat it a minute with an egg beater, 
beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add two table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar, beat until dry. On one 
layer (baked) heap the meringue, and on it dust 
heavily powdered sugar. Return to the oven and 
brown. Put one of the remaining layers on a plat- 
ter; cover thickly with the pineapple filling; add the 
other layer, then the rest of the filling, and top with 
the layer which has the meringue on it. Pour the 
cream in the bottom of the dish and serve. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

I can sliced pineapple }4 cupful sugar 

3 eggs rich pastry- 

Drain off the pineapple juice, add the sugar, and 
bring to boiling point. Beat the eggs well and pour 
the pineapple juice over them. Return to double 
boiler and cook till thick like a custard, stirring con- 
stantly. In the meantime, bake the pastry over a 
deep inverted pie-plate, pricking it, especially about 



PINEAPPLE 103 

the edge, so that it will retain the shape of the tin. 
Just before serving time spread the custard on the 
shell, lay on this the sliced pineapple which should 
be cut up, and heap with cream. 

FRUIT JELLY 

One package gelatin, two large cupfuls of sugar, 
one cupful of shredded pineapple, two lemons, four 
oranges cut fine, half pound chopped walnuts, half 
cupful preserved ginger, half pound figs cut fine. 
Cover contents of one package of gelatin with one 
cupful of cold water, let stand till soft; add one 
quart of boiling water and the sugar, strain and 
let stand until it begins to thicken. Stir in the pine- 
apple, juice of the lemons, oranges, figs, walnuts 
and ginger. 



XI. BANANAS 

BANANA CREAM 

Rub five large bananas smooth with five table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar, beat one-half pint of 
cream to a stiff froth, add the fruit and a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Mix and add half an 
ounce of gelatin previously dissolved in enough 
rich milk to cover it, whisk all together gently and 
mold. Use with cream and sugar. 

BAKED BANANAS 

5 bananas ij4 tablespoonfuls lemon 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar juice 

Remove bananas from skins, sprinkle with lemon 
juice and sugar and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, until the bananas are golden brown. 

BANANA ICE 

3 cupfuls sugar juice of 3 lemons 
3 cupfuls water juice of 3 oranges 

3 large bananas 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and water five 
minutes ; when cold add to it the fruit juices and the 
bananas mashed to a pulp. Freeze. Serve in sher- 
bet glasses ornamented with slices of bananas. 

104 



BANANAS 105 



BANANA FRITTERS 

I cupful flour I egg white 

I egg yolk 6 large bananas 

I teaspoonful salt fat for frying 

I teaspoonful salad oil or sugar 

butter 

Mix flour with egg yolk, salt, and oil or butter. 
Add sufficient cold water to make a thick batter. 
Beat egg white to a stiff froth and fold into batter. 
Slice the bananas lengthwise, and cut each slice in 
half. Dip in the batter and fry in smoking hot fat 
until golden brown. Drain, sprinkle with sugar 
and serve with a sweet sauce. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Choose one dozen fine good-sized bananas, re- 
move skin and cut fruit in halves. Dip each piece 
in beaten egg and cracker, dust twice, brown in 
boiling lard. Garnish with small lettuce leaves and 
serve with or without hard sauce. 

BANANA BUTTER 

4 ripe bananas 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 cupful white sugar grated rind and juice of 

2 eggs one lemon 

Mash bananas and beat to a pulp with a fork, add 
butter, sugar, lemon, and the eggs well beaten, put 
all together in a smooth granite pan, and cook un- 
til as thick as custard, stirring constantly. Seal 



106 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

in an air-tight jar ; it will keep for some time in a 
cold place. Use as a filling for cake and pastries. 

BANANA PIE 

3 bananas J^ cupful flour 

I cupful sugar % cupful boiling water 

1 tablespoonful butter % teaspoonful vanilla 

2 eggs flaky pastry 

Bake a shell of the pastry. In the meantime 
cream together the sugar and butter, beat in the 
egg yolks and flour, add the boiling water, and 
cook, stirring constantly until thickened. When 
the cream is cool, add the vanilla, slice the bananas, 
put a layer in the pastry shell, spread with a layer 
of the cream, lay on another of bananas, and top 
with cream. Whip the &gg whites with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar until fluffy and dry, spread over 
the pie, and bake until a delicate brown. Those who 
do not like very sweet desserts will find that a three- 
quarter cupful of sugar is ample. 

BANANA FLUFF 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon yi cupful fruit 

juice I cupful powdered sugar 

3 bananas i teaspoonful vanilla 
I tablespoonful grapefruit 3 eggs 

juice 

Pour the lemon and grapefruit juice over the 
peeled bananas and put on the ice for an hour. 
Mash thoroughly and beat for two minutes. Stir 
in the sugar and add the whites of the eggs. Beat 



BANANAS 107 

all until very light. Add the vanilla. Fill tall glass 
half full of peaches or any desired canned fruit and 
fold in the banana fluff. Top each glass with a 
maraschino cherry. 

BANANA SPONGE 

Soften one-fourth package of gelatin in one- 
fourth cupful of cold water. Remove the skin 
and coarse threads from four small bananas, and 
press the pulp through a ricer. There should be a 
generous cupful of pulp. Scald the pulp over a 
quick fire; add the softened gelatin and stir until 
dissolved; add half a cupful of sugar and the juice 
of a lemon, and stir over ice-water until the mixture 
thickens slightly; then fold in the whites of two 
eggs, beaten dry. Turn into a mold lined with 
slices of banana. Squeeze a little lemon juice over 
the slices of banana to keep them from discoloring. 

JUNKET AND BANANAS 

Pass the pulp of two bananas through a vege- 
table press, add two teaspoonfuls of sugar and one- 
fourth cupful of water; let simmer until tho- 
roughly heated, then add a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and half a teaspoonful of granulated gelatin 
soaked in cold water and dissolved over hot water ; 
mix thoroughly, and pour into the bottom of six 
custard cups. When cold and set, heat one quart 
of milk with half a cupful of sugar to blood heat, 
remove from the fire, add one teaspoonful of vanilla 



108 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

extract and a teaspoon ful of liquid rennet, or one 
junket tablet dissolved in a tablespoonful of water; 
mix thoroughly, and pour over the banana in the 
cups. Serve with or without whipped cream. 

BANANA AND DATE PUDDING 

Gelatin, three scant cupfuls boiling water, three- 
fourths cupful sugar, one egg, one lemon, one cup- 
ful stoned dates, two bananas. Use amount of gel- 
atin ordinarily required for one quart of jelly and 
soften it with a little cold water; pour the boiling 
water onto it and stir until dissolved. Add sugar 
and stir until that is dissolved. Break egg into a 
cup and beat until light, fill cup with cold water 
and add to the boiling water. Let it boil up once, 
stirring constantly; then remove from stove. Add 
lemon rind (grated) and juice, also dates, cut into 
small pieces. Turn into mold. When cold, but not 
set, add bananas, sliced thin. When hard unmold 
and serve with whipped cream. This makes enough 
for seven or eight persons. 

BANANA COMPOTE 

Slice bananas, oranges and pineapple into a large 
dish. Mix thoroughly and sweeten to taste. Line 
sherbet cups with strips of banana, fill the center 
with the fruit mixture and place a spoonful of 
sweetened whipped cream and a candied cherry on 
top of each. 



BANANAS 109 

BANANA ICE CREAM 

I pint of milk J^ pound of sugar 

I pint of cream pinch of salt 

5 bananas }i oi a. nutmeg 

Scrape the bananas lightly, after removing the 
peel, and mash them through a colander. Add to 
the banana pulp the pinch of salt, stir in the sugar, 
then the milk and cream. Then grate the nutmeg. 
Mix well. Churn and freeze in a half gallon can, 
as ice cream increases in bulk in the process of 
making. 

BANANA TAPIOCA 

Slice the bananas and sprinkle with the juice of 
a lemon. Cook instantaneous tapioca in a double 
boiler, allowing a cupful to three of water until it 
looks transparent. Add to it a pinch of salt, the 
grated rind of the lemon and half a cupful of sug- 
ar. Stir the bananas into the tapioca (about three 
will be the right amount), turn into a buttered pud- 
ding dish, put bits of butter on top and bake in a 
hot oven until the top is browned. Serve cold or 
hot with sugar and cream. 

ROGNONS AUX BANANAS 

Veal kidney and bananas are the ingredients of 
this dish. Take off a little of the kidney fat — use 
only a half or quarter for one person — and saute 
it with butter in quite a hot pan. The kidney must 
be browned slightly, but still be left a little pink in 



110 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the inside. This slight rareness improves the taste 
and leaves it tender. When cooked, push the kid- 
ney to one side and put in a banana, cut in length- 
wise slices that have been sprinkled with lemon 
juice. These will fall to pieces with the cooking. 
Pile the pulp beside the kidney on a hot plate and 
serve at once. 

BANANA CROQUETTES 

Peel and scrape ripe bananas. Cut each one in 
two pieces and cut off the sharp end, making them 
look like a croquette. Roll them in chopped nuts 
of any kind — either peanuts, hickory nuts or wal- 
nuts. Lay on a leaf of lettuce and serve with 
French dressing. 

BANANA PUDDING NO. i 

Peel one dozen bananas, pass through a sieve, add 
five tablespoon fuls sugar, three sponge-cakes crum- 
bled fine, three tablespoonfuls lemon juice, a pint of 
cream, five tablespoonfuls strawberry jam that has 
been passed through a sieve, the well-beaten yolks 
of four eggs. Mix well, add one teaspoonful va- 
nilla, and fold in gently the stifily whisked whites 
of three eggs. Butter a mold well, put in the mix- 
ture, and steam gently one and one-quarter to one 
and one-half hours. Cover top of mold with but- 
tered paper. Turn out on hot dish, pour some 
slightly whipped cream over, and sprinkle top with 
chopped pistachio nuts. 



BANANAS 111 

BANANA PUDDING NO. 2 

Peel and slice some ripe bananas, place thick 
layer in a glass dish and cover with strawberry- 
jam. Boil some tapioca in milk slightly sweetened 
and flavored with a few drops of vanilla. When 
cool, put a thick layer on the bananas and jam; add 
another layer of each, and so on, until the dish is 
full. Cover the whole with custard into which the 
pulp of two ripe bananas has been well mixed. The 
above can be placed in a pie dish and baked and 
served hot. 

BANANA PUDDING NO. 3 

Peel and slice six ripe bananas and cook them 
for ten minutes in syrup made with two ounces of 
sugar and one-half gill of water flavored with 
lemon. Cook two ounces of rice in a pint of milk, 
sweeten to taste, and add it to the bananas. Whisk 
stiffly whites of two eggs and mix them carefully 
with the rice and bananas. Pour the mixture into 
a buttered fire-proof baking dish, sprinkle the top 
with chopped almonds and sugar, and bake in a 
moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. 
Serve hot. 

BANANA CAKE 

3 teaspoonfuls baking i cupful sweet milk 

powder 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

iy2 cupfuls sugar i teaspoonful lemon extract 

3 eggs 



112 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Bake in layer tins. The whites of six eggs may 
be used, if a white cake is preferred, instead of the 
three whole eggs. Put together as follows : 

boiled frosting 
3 bananas 
rind and juice of one lemon 

Put boiled frosting between each layer and place 
over the frosting bananas cut in thin slices, the 
pieces joining each other closely. Sprinkle each 
layer with a little lemon juice and grated peel, and 
stir a little of the grated peel into the frosting used 
over the top of the cake. 

BANANA PICKLE 



I dozen bananas 


Yi teaspoonful ground gin- 


2 pounds Bermuda onions 


ger 


3^ cupful molasses 


I pint vinegar 


J4 pint water 


I pound dates 


I teaspoonful salt 


I teaspoonful allspice 



Cut bananas, dates, and onions into small pieces, 
add spices, vinegar, water, and molasses, mix well 
together; turn into a large stone jar or crock, bake 
in a slow oven till a rich brown, seal in jars while 
hot. 

BANANA OMELET 

Peel four not overripe bananas, cut them into 
round slices (not too thin), melt one ounce of but- 
ter in an omelet pan. When hot, put the bananas in 
and stir them in the butter for a few minutes, then 



BANANAS 113 

season with salt and pepper. Break four eggs into a 
basin, add one tablespoonful of milk, salt and pepper 
to taste, and beat well. Melt one ounce of butter in 
an omelet pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir 
over a quick fire until the eggs begin to set, then 
shape into an omelet. Put the prepared banana in 
the center, fold in the sides of the omelet and let it 
take color ; then turn out into a hot dish and serve. 

BANANA OMELET (SWEET) 

Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing 
recipe, but omit salt and pepper, and sweeten with 
sugar instead. When the omelet is ready to serve 
dredge the top with icing sugar and glaze the sur- 
face by placing it in a very hot oven for a few min- 
utes. 

BANANA WITH SAUSAGE 

Shape pork sausage meat into little rolls, place 
them in a frying pan with just enough hot water 
to cover and let boil one minute. Drain the water 
off carefully and fry the sausage until crisp over 
a quick fire. Remove from the pan and keep in a 
hot place. Peel three or four bananas and slice 
lengthwise. Put a small piece of butter into the 
pan in which the sausage was cooked and add the 
bananas. Fry them over a hot fire until thoroughly 
heated through. Pile the sausages in the center of 
a hot platter, arrange the banana slices around the 
edge and garnish with parsley. 



114 FEUITS AND THEIB COOKERY 

BANANA AND RHUBARB BETTY 

1 bunch of rhubarb I tablespoonful butter 

2 bananas i cupful bread crumbs 

S/g cupful maple syrup 

Peel the firm, fresh stalks and cut in half -inch 
lengths. Slice the bananas in thin crosswise slices. 
Fill a well-buttered baking- dish with alternate lay- 
ers of the fruit, separating the layers with bread 
crumbs and maple syrup. Finish with a layer of 
bread crumbs, maple syrup and a few dots of butter. 
Bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

BANANA SANDWICHES 

Divide two medium-sized bananas crosswise into 
halves, then cut each piece lengthwise into slices 
about one-fourth inch thick. Prepare buttered 
strips of bread the size of the banana slices. Mix 
six tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar with a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, spread on the bread and 
butter and put two strips together with a strip of 
banana between. 

BANANA SPLITS 

Use one banana for each person ; peel, scrape and 
cut in two lengthwise. Lay it on a plate, cut side 
uppermost. Heap a spoonful of ice cream in the 
center, put a generous amount of whipped cream on 
that and top with a maraschino cherry. 



BANANAS' 115 



BANANA SOUFFLE 



I cupful thick cream 5 eggs 

I cupful finely sliced J4 cupful powdered 

bananas sugar 

Whip the cream stiff and fold in the sliced ba- 
nanas. Beat the egg-s until stiff without separating, 
add sugar, and fold into cream and banana mixture. 
Half fill buttered ramekins, set them in a pan of 
hot water, and bake in a moderate oven until light 
and delicately browned. 

BANANA AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

3 large bananas J4 cupful walnut meats 

5 or 6 slices Hawaiian pine- french dressing 

apple whipped cream 

Peel the bananas and slice lengthwise. Arrange 
on a salad plate alternately with the slices of pine- 
apple. Dress with French dressing and place the 
walnut meats on top. Put a little pile of mayon- 
naise, mixed until stiff with whipped cream, on each 
slice of pineapple. All of the ingredients should be 
very cold. 

BAKED BANANAS AND APPLES 

6 apples 6 teaspoonfuls sugar 

3 bananas I tablespoonful lemon jtiice 

Prepare the apples as for ordinary baking, but 
make the hole from which the core is removed large 



116 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

enough to hold half of a banana. If the latter is 
too large around, trim it off a little. Sprinkle a 
teaspoonful of sugar and a few drops of lemon 
juice over each apple. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven. This imparts the flavor of the bananas to 
the apples. 



XII. WATERMELONS 

WATERMELON AND PINEAPPLE COCKTAILS 

Use twice as much chilled diced watermelon as 
shredded pineapple. Place in cocktail glasses ; pour 
a little juice in and garnish with a sprig of mint. 

CANTALOUPE COCKTAILS 

Dice the melon and add half the amount of diced 
ripe peaches. Sprinkle lightly with a little grated 
nutmeg and marinate on the ice with a little sweet 
orange juice. Serve very cold. 

WATERMELON CONSERVE 

Peel and cut the rind into small pieces, cover 
with weak salt water and let stand over night, then 
soak in cold water several hours. Drain and add 
water to cook until clear. Drain and to each pint 
of melon add one of sugar and one or two lemons 
sliced. Cook very slowly for two hours. 

SWEET PICKLE WATERMELON RIND 

Four cupfuls of sugar, two tablespoon fuls cinna- 
mon, one tablespoonful whole clove, two cupfuls 
vinegar, watermelon rind. Pare the watermelon 
rind, cut it into two-inch squares and cook it in 

117 



118 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKEEY 

boiling water until it is tender. Put the vinegar, 
sugar and spices (tied in a cheesecloth bag) into a 
preserving kettle. Boil the mixture ten minutes 
and then cook it slowly for about two hours or until 
the syrup is thick. Add the melon rind and simmer 
it about one hour. Put it into jars. 

FROZEN WATERMELON 

Cut a melon into halves, and with a spoon scoop 
out large round pieces, pick the seeds out with a 
fork, arrange in a pail with powdered sugar sprin- 
kled on each layer and bury in ice and salt four 
hours. 

WATERMELON PRESERVE 

This is made from the red part of the melon. 
Dice the red portion of the melon, removing all 
seeds and every bit of the white part; weigh and 
use half as much sugar as you have melon, adding 
to every six pounds of melon the juice and grated 
yellow rinds of two lemons. Put all together in a 
large granite kettle and boil slowly, stirring often, 
until it is quite thick. At first you will think it is 
all going to water, but very soon you will notice it 
thicken. When it has become as thick as you like 
it seal hot in glass pint jars. 



XIII. CITRON MELON 

CITRON MELON PRESERVE 

Cut open the melon as you would a watermelon, 
take out inside, just use the rind, peel and cut in 
cubes or in small pieces. To every pound of citron 
allow one pound of sugar and one-fourth pound 
of ginger root. Put the citron melon in water 
enough to cover, add to this water two'teaspoonfuls 
of baking soda, boil until just tender and cool. 
When cold soak in strong alum water one hour. 
Make a syrup of one pint of water and two pounds 
of sugar. Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, 
add this to the sugar and water, stir, let it boil, 
skim off the egg. The egg clears the sugar and 
water. Then add the ginger root and melon and 
cook in the syrup until clear. Put in glass jars and 
cover with the syrup. 

CITRON PRESERVE NO. i 

Pare citron and take out the seeds, cut in pieces 
one inch thick and two inches in length. Weigh 
them, put in kettle with water and cook until clear. 
Make a syrup of their weight in sugar, add two 
slices of lemon to each pound of citron, put part 
of the citron in the syrup and^boil about fifteen min- 

119 



120 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

utes. Skim out and put in jars. When all has 
been thus cooked boil the syrup thick and pour over 
the fruit until jars are full. Seal. 

CITRON PRESERVE NO. 2 

Peel and cut citron in one inch squares, then boil 
till soft, draw off water ; add one pound of sugar to 
one of fruit. To every five pounds of preserve add 
one pound of raisins, one lemon sliced, one-half 
ounce of white cloves, one ounce stick cinnamon. 
Dissolve sugar ; when hot add fruit and let simmer 
slowly two hours. 

BARBERRY SAUCE 

Half a peck of barberries, two quarts of molasses, 
one peck sweet apples. Pick over barberries, re- 
move all stems, wash and boil with water enough 
to float them. Add the molasses and cook until 
tender. While these are cooking, pare, quarter and 
core the apples, skim out the berries and cook the 
apples in the syrup, as many as can be cooked con- 
veniently. When tender, put them into dish with 
berries and boil the syrup until thick. Pour over 
fruit. Next morning heat all together again and 
seal. 



XIV. RHUBARB 

RHUBARB PIE 

Make and bake the pie crust, or line the pie plate 
in the usual way and brush the crust with white of 
egg, then turn in the following mixture: two cup- 
fuls of cut-up rhubarb, two cupfuls of sugar, with 
which has been mixed two level tablespoon fuls of 
flour, and stir in, without beating, two eggs. Bake 
at once with or without lattice top. The amount 
will make one large and two small pies. 

RHUBARB CUSTARD PIE 

Add to two well-beaten eggs two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch mixed with two-thirds of 
a cupful of milk, half a cupful of sugar and one 
cupful of cooked and sweetened rhubarb. Pour 
this mixture into a plate lined with good pie-crust 
and bake. This may be covered with a meringue, 
or served with whipped cream. 

RHUBARB STEWED 

2 bunches strawberry rhu- 
barb 
ij^ cupfuls sugar 

Select tender stalks of rhubarb, the strawberry 
variety if you can get it, wash in cold water, first 

121 



122 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

cutting off leaf and root ends with a very sharp 
knife, so as not to start the peel, which is not taken 
off. Cut them on a board in inch pieces and put 
in a double boiler and place over a slow fire. Add 
no water to rhubarb. After it has cooked for half 
an hour, add enough sugar to sweeten it. Replace 
the cover and cook until quite soft. 

RHUBARB AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

1 8 medium stalks rhubarb 
3 large oranges 

Slice oranges very fine and cut rhubarb in one- 
half inch pieces without removing skins. Mix, 
measure, and add an equal amount of sugar. Mix 
thoroughly and let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing, put in the preserving kettle and boil rapidly 
until a little of it will thicken like jelly when 
dropped into cold water. Pour into glasses and 
seal. 

RHUBARB WHIP 

Whip to a stiff froth the whites of three eggs; 
beat into them three tablespoon fuls of powdered 
sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, then about 
a pint of rhubarb. Sprinkle the top with chopped 
nuts and serve. 

RHUBARB AND PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 

5 pounds rhubarb 

5 pounds sugar 

I pineapple (grated) 



RHUBARB 123 

Wash rhubarb and cut in small pieces, add grated 
pineapple and sugar. Cook very slowly until sugar 
is melted, then cook moderately until rhubarb goes 
all to pieces. Pour into tumblers and cover with 
paraffin. 

RHUBARB JAM 

I pound rhubarb 
I pound sugar 
Yz lemon rind 

Wash the rhubarb and wipe perfectly dry. Peel 
and weigh it, mince the lemon rind and add it to 
the rhubarb. Put in a saucepan with the sugar. 
Keep it well skimmed and boil until it is thick, about 
an hour after it begins to boil. Pour into tumblers 
and cover with paraffin. 

RHUBARB BAKED WITH FIGS 

Cover well-washed bag figs with boiling water 
and cook until the water is nearly evaporated. Cut 
a pound of rhubarb unpeeled, if young, otherwise 
peeled, in inch pieces; put a layer into a baking 
dish, sprinkle with a teaspoonful of sugar, add a 
few figs, then a layer of rhubarb, sugar, and figs, 
until a pound of rhubarb and half a pound of figs 
are used; put in a few spoonfuls of hot water and 
bake, covered, in a slow oven until the rhubarb is 
tender but unbroken. Dates or raisins may take 
the place of the figs. 



124 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

RHUBARB BREAD PUDDING 

Pour boiling water on stale bread crumbs and 
let them soak until soft, then drain, and to a pint 
of crumbs add one well-beaten egg, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and a grating of nutmeg. Have ready 
buttered cups and put into each one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of cooked and sweetened rhubarb, 
put over it the crumb mixture and bake. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE 

Six pounds of rhubarb, the rinds of three lemons, 
twelve cupfuls of sugar. Cut the rhubarb into one- 
inch lengths, put these into a preserving kettle over 
a slow fire until the juice begins to flow, then add 
the sugar and the grated lemon rinds. Cook very 
slowly until sugar is dissolved, then quickly until 
it will jelly. It should not be at all thin or watery. 
Keep it well skimmed and avoid as much as possi- 
ble breaking up the pieces when stirring it. Pour 
into dry jars and cover tightly. One level tea- 
spoonful of powdered ginger may be used instead 
of the lemon rind, if preferred. 

RHUBARB AND FIGS 

4 pounds rhubarb 6 to 8 ounces candied peel 

4 pounds sugar _ (orange and lemon) 

I pound dried figs 

Wash the figs in hot water, dry them and cut in 
thin shreds. Choose fresh garden rhubarb, wipe it, 



EHUBAEB 125 

and cut it in small pieces about one inch in length, 
but do not peel it unless the skin is coarse. Remove 
the sugar from the candied peel and shred it finely 
with a sharp knife. Put these three ingredients into 
a large earthen bowl with the sugar, cover, and let 
stand twenty-four hours. Then turn all into a pre- 
serving pan, bring to a boil, stirring frequently, and 
boil from three-quarters to one hour or until the 
jam will set. Pour into glasses and cover. 

RHUBARB AND GOOSEBERRIES 

2 pounds rhubarb 
2 pounds gooseberries 
sugar 

Wash rhubarb and gooseberries and put in pre- 
serving kettle. Boil together until soft and strain 
through a sieve. Weigh and return to the fire and 
boil until it looks clear and begins to thicken. Then 
add sugar of equal weight with fruit. Boil fifteen 
minutes longer. Pour into jelly glasses. 

RHUBARB ICE CREAM 

Cut up enough rhubarb, with the red peeling on, 
to make three pints, and cook until tender in just 
enough water to cover. Add a pinch of salt, and 
strain through a fine sieve. Add one pound of 
sugar; stir until dissolved; when nearly cold add 
one pint of plain or whipped cream or custard, and 
freeze. 



12G FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

RHUBARB MERINGUE PIE 

ij^ cupfuls rhubarb 2 eggs 

I cupful sugar i tablespoonful butter 

I tablespoonful flour 

Cover a pie plate with crust and fill with rhubarb 
mixture, which is put together as follows: Cream 
butter and sugar, add the slightly beaten egg yolks, 
flour, and the rhubarb, which has been cut fine, 
covered with just enough boiling water to cook it, 
and allow to boil one minute. Bake until firm in 
a moderate oven. When cool, cover with a me- 
ringue, and brown slightly in oven. 



XV. BLUEBERRIES 

QUICK BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

1 quart stewed blueber- i teaspoonful lemon juice 

ries ^ cupful flour 

2 eggs % teaspoonful salt 

iy2 cupfuls of sugar 3 tablespoonfuls baking 

2 tablespoonfuls cold powder 

water 

Put a quart of canned or stewed blueberries on 
the stove in a saucepan and let them get boiling 
hot, then cover the berries with a batter. To make 
this, beat eggs to a froth, add sugar, beat until light 
colored, then add water, lemon juice and lastly mix 
in lightly the flour sifted with salt and baking pow- 
der. Cover and cook for about thirty minutes. 
Serve with egg sauce. 

EGG SAUCE 

I tablespoonful butter i teaspoonful lemon 

I tablespoonful flour flavoring 

I cupful boiling water i egg 

^ cupful sugar 

Melt the butter in a saucepan and when liquid 
add the flour and mix well. Add gradually the 
boiling water, stirring all the time to keep the mix- 
ture smooth. Let it boil a few minutes, then add 

127 



128 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the sugar and eggs beaten together; stir until the 
mixture thickens. Add flavoring. 

CREAM BLUEBERRY GINGERBREAD 

I cupful blueberries 2 cupfuls flour 

I cupful molasses J4 teaspoonful salt 

I cupful sour cream i teaspoonful ginger 

2 teaspoonfuls soda 

Mix together the molasses and cream, but re- 
serve one-fourth cupful of the flour to mix with the 
blueberries. Add the dry ingredients to the molas- 
ses mixture. Fold in the blueberries, and place in 
the oven as quickly as possible. Bake gently for 
thirty minutes. The gingerbread should be about 
one and one-half inches thick. This is equally good 
made with sweet cream, omitting one teaspoonful 
of soda. 

STEWED BLUEBERRIES AND DUMPLINGS 

Pick over and wash one quart of berries and stew 
with three cupfuls of water and sugar to taste. 
When berries start to boil add dumplings and let 
simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve with 
cream. 

Dumplings: Two cupfuls flour, one cupful water, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, half teaspoonful 
salt. Mix and drop into the berries. As the dump- 
lings rise, turn them over with a fork and let sim- 
mer. If sauce is too thick add more water to suit 
taste. 



BLUEBEEEIES 129 

BLUEBERRY JAM 

4 quarts berries 
4 quarts sugar 

Place sugar and berries in preserving kettle, let 
stand several hours, boil slowly until thick, put in 
jelly glasses. 

BLUEBERRY BREAD PUDDING 

Stew two cupfuls blueberries with sweetening and 
while boiling hot pour over three or four well-but- 
tered slices of white bread arranged in bottom of 
white pudding dish. Set on ice before serving with 
cream. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS NO. i 

Two cupfuls of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one-fourth 
cupful of sugar, two small teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one egg, one cupful of milk and one cupful 
of berries. Mix as for plain muffins; add berries 
last, dusting them with a little flour. Bake in muffin 
pans in a hot oven. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS NO. 2 

Mix together three cupfuls of barley or oat flour, 
five teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one tablespoonful of sugar. Mix in 
gradually one cupful of skim milk, one lightly beat- 
en egg, a scant quarter of a cupful of cold water, 



130 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

one-quarter of a cupful of corn syrup and one cup- 
ful or more of blueberries. Mix well, fill into 
greased muffin pans, let stand for twenty minutes 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



SPICED BLUEBERRIES 

Grate a nutmeg, add two teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon and tie in a muslin bag. Scald one pint of 
vinegar with three pounds of sugar, add the spice 
bag and half a cupful of well-washed raisins and 
cook until the raisins are tender. Remove the 
spices, add five pounds of blueberries, let them boil 
five minutes and skim the fruit out into a jar. Boil 
the syrup ten minutes longer and pour it over the 
fruit. When cold cover closely and keep in a cool, 
dry place. 

BLUEBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Mix two cupfuls of flour with four level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one-fourth of a cupful 
of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of nutmeg; work in 
one-half of a cupful of butter, moisten with niilk, 
place on a floured board and divide in two parts; 
pat, roll out, put one piece in a buttered tin, spread 
the dough with softened butter, cover with the re- 
maining part and bake in a hot oven until brown. 
Split open, spread with stewed and sweetened ber- 
ries and serve with cream. 



BLUEBERRIES 131 



BLUEBERRY PIE WITH MERINGUE 

One cupful sugar, one teaspoonful flour, yolks 
of three eggs. Beat all together and add three 
cupfuls of blueberries. Bake with one crust and 
frost with the two egg whites, sweetened and 
flavored. 

BLUEBERRY CUSTARD PIE 

Two cupfuls of scalding hot blueberry juice, 
yolks of two eggs beaten light, three-fourths cupful 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour mixed with the 
sugar, a pinch of salt. Cook in double boiler until 
thick. Have shell previously baked. Put cooked 
custard in crust, frost with the whites of eggs and 
brown lightly in oven, 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

Sift together one cupful each of rice flour and 
cornmeal, half a teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder and two tablespoon fuls of 
sugar. Beat one egg with a scant cupful of milk 
and gradually beat the liquid into the dry ingredi- 
ents. Then add two tablespoonfuls of melted 
shortening, one and a half cupfuls of blueberries 
(dusted with rice flour) and one tablespoonful of 
"corn syrup." Bake in a greased pan, using a mod- 
erately hot oven, for about thirty minutes. 



132 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

BLUEBERRY PUFFS 

J4 cupful butter 4 egg whites 

I cupful sugar J4 teaspoonful salt 

J4 cupful milk 2 cupfuls blueberries 

2j4 cupfuls flour I extra cupful sugar 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Cream butter; add sugar, flour, baking powder 
and salt alternately with milk. Beat well, add the 
stiffly beaten whites. Steam forty-five minutes in 
buttered popover cups. Serve with blueberry 
sauce. 

Sauce: Cook two cupfuls of blueberries and one 
cupful of sugar together for twenty minutes. 

CANNED BLUEBERRIES 

4 quarts of blueberries 
2 pints of sugar 

Place sugar and berries in preserving kettle, let 
them stand several hours, then cook slowly until the 
boiling point is reached ; boil five minutes, fill steri- 
lized jars and seal. 

BLUEBERRY FLAPJACKS 

One pint sour milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
one-half cupful sugar, a little salt, one egg, about 
one cupful of blueberries, flour for batter. 



XVI. RASPBERRIES 



RASPBERRY SOUFFLE 



Rub one quart of raspberries through a sieve, 
add three-quarters cupful of sugar and the stiffly 
beaten whites of six eggs. Mix lightly, turn into a 
buttered baking dish and bake from thirty to forty 
minutes. Serve immediately with cream, either 
plain or whipped. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA 

Cook for fifteen minutes in a double boiler one- 
half cupful of minute tapioca, one-half cupful sug- 
ar, one teaspoonful butter and three cupfuls of 
hot water. Crush one pint of raspberries, sweeten 
to taste and let stand one-half hour. Take tapioca 
from the fire and stir in fruit. Set in a cool place. 
Serve very cold with whipped cream. 

RASPBERRY ICE 

One quart of water and one pound of sugar 
boiled together five minutes. Add to one quart 
of red raspberries one cupful of sugar and the 
juice of two lemons, and let them stand one hour. 
Then press through a fruit press and add juice ob- 
tained to the boiled sugar and water; strain into a 

133 



134 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

well-packed freezer and turn five minutes, then 
add the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; 
turn until stiff. 



RASPBERRY BOMBE GLACE 

Line a three-pint melon mold with raspberry ice. 
Fill the center with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored before whipping. Let stand, packed in 
equal measures of ice and salt, about three hours. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP 

Pick over and mash two quarts of raspberries, 
cover and let stand in graniteware dish over night. 
In the morning add three-fourths cupful of cold 
water, bring slowly to the boiling point and let sim- 
mer twenty minutes. Force through a double thick- 
ness of cheesecloth, again bring to the boiling point, 
and fill small glass jars. 

RASPBERRY CREAM PIE 

Line a deep pie plate with rich paste, rub the edge 
with butter, fill with raspberries and sprinkle gen- 
erously with sugar. Cut out an upper crust, rub 
the edge also with butter to prevent the two from 
sticking together, place over the pie and bake. Scald 
one cupful of milk, thicken with two teaspoonfuls 
of cornstarch mixed with a little cold milk. Add 
one-fourth of a cupful of sugar and a dash of salt, 
cook over boiling water for twenty minutes, flavor 



EASPBEERIES 135 

with a few drops of vanilla, cool and fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. When the pie 
is cold, remove the upper crust, pour in the cream, 
replace the crust and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

RASPBERRY BAR-LE-DUC 

I quart perfect red raspber- 3 cupfuls sugar 

ries I cupful red raspberry juice 

I cupful currant juice 

Combine fruit juices, add sugar, let boil until 
they are very thick and almost jelly, then drop in 
the raspberries, a few at a time; cook for two or 
three minutes and remove with a skimmer to small 
glasses. When all the berries are cooked, the syrup 
will be considerably thinned, so boil it down, till 
very thick again, pour into the glasses containing 
the raspberries, and seal as usual. 

LOUISVILLE FRUIT PUDDING 

I pint fresh raspberries i^ cupfuls sugar 
I pint fresh currants i quart water 

7 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 

Wash berries and currants, and cook in the water 
till soft, about five minutes. Drain through a very 
fine sieve, return juice to the heat, and when at boil- 
ing point, add the sugar and cornstarch, mixed with 
a little cold water. Let boil gently for five min- 
utes, stirring constantly. Pour into molds wet in 
cold water, let stiffen, and serve with cream. 



136 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

NESTS OF RICE WITH RASPBERRY JAM 

Cook one-half cupful of rice in two cupfuls of 
milk until tender and the liquid is absorbed. Add 
two tablespoon fuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and the beaten yolks of two eggs ; cool, shape 
in the form of nests, dip in fine crumbs, then in 
beaten egg and again in crumbs, let stand one or 
more hours and fry in deep hot fat. Drain on soft 
paper and fill with preserved raspberries. 

RASPBERRY TURNOVERS 

Mix and sift together two cupfuls of flour, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, two rounded teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and one saltspoonful of salt; rub 
in one-quarter of a cup of butter and moisten with 
enough milk to make a rather stiff dough. Place 
on a floured board, roll out, cut into rounds, place a 
tablespoonful of preserved berries on each, sprinkle 
with sugar, fold the dough over, press the edges 
firmly together, brush the tops with milk and bake 
in a quick oven. When done serve with raspberry 
sauce. To make this, cream one-third cupful of 
butter, add gradually one and one-fourth cupfuls 
of powdered sugar, flavor with a few drops of va- 
nilla, then add very gradually half a cupful of 
mashed berries. Place on ice until needed. 

RASPBERRY PARFAIT 

2 cupfuls raspberries 2 egg whites 

I cupful sugar i cupful heavy cream 

J^ cupful water 



RASPBERRIES 137 

Wash, pick over, hull and mash berries. Sprinkle 
with one-half the sugar, cover and let stand several 
hours ; then force through a fine strainer. Put re- 
maining sugar in saucepan, add water, bring to 
boiling point, and let boil until mixture will spin a 
thread when dropped from tip of spoon. Pour syrup 
gradually, while beating constantly, on whites of 
eggs, beaten until stiflf. Cool and fold in cream, 
beaten until stiff. Fill mold to overflow, cover with 
buttered paper, adjust cover, pack in ice and salt, 
using two parts ice to one part salt, and let stand 
three hours. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT DUMPLINGS 

Sift together two cupfuls of flour, four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder and one-half teaspoonful of 
salt ; rub in one-half cupful of butter, moisten with 
about two-thirds cupful of milk, turn out on a 
floured board, knead slightly, roll out one-quarter 
inch in thickness and cut into four-inch squares. 
Put two tablespoonfuls each of raspberries and cur- 
rants on each piece, sprinkle generously with sugar, 
add a bit of butter, fold the edges of the dough over 
the fruit, press firmly together and bake half an 
hour in a moderate oven. Serve with foamy sauce. 

RASPBERRY SPONGE 

Sweeten well two and one-half cupfuls of rasp- 
berry juice and bring to a boil. Add half a package 
of soaked gelatin,, stirring until dissolved. When 



138 FEUITS AND THEIE ,COOKEEY 

cool, but not set, fold in the whites of three eggs 
beaten until stiff. Beat until thick. Mold, chill and 
serve with whipped cream. 

RASPBERRY JELLY FLUFF 

Dissolve one package of raspberry gelatin in 
one pint of boiling water. Divide it into three equal 
parts and put one part in a square mold. When 
one of the remaining portions begins to thicken 
beat it with an tgg beater until it is dry and foamy 
and add one cupful of nut meats and one cupful 
of small pieces of marshmallows and chopped dates. 
Spread this mixture over the portion in the square 
mold and cover with the remaining third. Put in 
a cold place to harden. To serve, cut in slices, using 
a knife dipped in hot water ; add whipped cream and 
bits of raspberry jam. 

RASPBERRY NECTAR 

Dissolve two cupfuls of sugar in the same amount 
of cold water ; add the grated rind of one orange, 
taking care to use the yellow part only, as the white 
rind imparts a bitter taste. Bring to a boil. Strain 
this syrup and add to it the juice of two lemons and 
two oranges, and one quart of raspberry juice. Set 
in a cold place and allow it to get ice cold before 
serving. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET NO. i 

1 quart water J4 cupful orange juice 

2 cupfuls sugar % cupful lemon juice 

2 cupfuls raspberry juice 



RASPBEEEIES 139 

Boil water and sugar together for twenty min- 
utes, add fruit juice, cool and strain. Freeze to a 
mush. Serve as soon as possible after freezing. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING NO. i 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add 
one pint of canned raspberries, one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and, two-thirds cupful of stale cake 
crumbs ; beat thoroughly, turn into a buttered bak- 
ing dish, stand it in a pan of hot water and bake 
about half an hour. Serve with custard sauce. 

RASPBERRY FOAM 

Whip the whites of four eggs until frothy, add 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar and whip stiff, drop- 
ping in a little at a time, three tablespoonfuls of 
raspberry juice. Heap in glasses and serve at once. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING NO. 2 

To use up dry pieces of cake, steam them, split 
and put a spoonful of raspberries previously 
mashed and sweetened on each piece, then cover 
with sweetened whipped cream, flavored or not, as 
you like. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET NO. 2 

Make a syrup from a pint of water and one and 
a quarter cupfuls of sugar. Remove from the fire, 
cool and beat with an egg whip. When quite cold 
add one large cupful of strained raspberry juice 



140 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

and freeze slowly as for ice cream. When the mix- 
ture begins to harden, add the stiffly whipped whites 
of two eggs and continue freezing to the desired 
consistency. Serve in sherbet cups. 

RASPBERRY AND APPLE JELLY 

Wash and quarter enough apples to make one 
and one-half cupfuls of juice, put them into a kettle, 
cover with water and boil until tender. Add one- 
half cupful of raspberry juice and three cupfuls of 
sugar and boil until it jellies. 

RASPBERRY PRESERVES 

To two cupfuls of sugar add one cupful of water, 
let come to a boil, skim and add a few drops of 
lemon juice to keep the syrup from candying. Let 
boil until it spins a thread from the end of a silver 
fork, then put in one quart of fruit. Let it boil 
for about five minutes. Do not stir. When done, 
set away for six hours. Fill jars that have been 
sterilized with the cold preserved raspberries and 
seal. 

CANNED RASPBERRIES 

Put a layer of berries then a layer of sugar in a 
dish until all berries are used. Let stand over night, 
then put in jars, put on rubbers and tops and put 
wire across top, but do not spring lower wire. Put 
in boiler, let come to a boil and boil just ten min- 
utes. Take out, snap clamp down and when cold 
dip in hot paraffin. 



RASPBEREIES 141 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

To four quarts of raspberries put enough cider 
vinegar to cover and let stand twenty-four hours. 
Scald and strain and add a pound of sugar to a pint 
of juice. Boil it twenty minutes and bottle. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 

Put one pint of cider vinegar over six quarts of 
raspberries. Let stand over night. Next morning 
strain and to every pint of juice add one pound of 
sugar. Scald ten minutes, then bottle and cover the 
corks with paraffin. When used take half a glass of 
the shrub to half a glass of ice water or lemonade. 



XVII. BLACKBERRIES 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

I quart blackberries 
I pound sugar 

Mash the berries, add sugar and stew for one 
half hour. Seal while hot. 

BLACKBERRY AND APPLE JAM 

2 quarts mashed blackber- 
ries 

1 quart tart apples 

2 quarts of sugar 

Cook all together about twenty minutes. 

BLACKBERRY CORNSTARCH 

I pint ripe blackberries J^ cupful sugar 

I pint water i tablespoonful cornstarch 

whipped cream 

Simmer together the blackberries and water. Do 
not stir. Mix cornstarch with just a little cold 
water and stir in carefully. Do not break the fruit. 
Let it cook for five minutes, remove, add the sugar, 
and when cool pour into glasses. Serve ice cold with 
a heaping tablespoonful of whipped cream on each 
glass. 

142 



BLACKBEERIES 143 

BLACKBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatin 
in one-half cupful of blackberry juice. Add one- 
half cupful hot juice, to which has been added one 
cupful of sugar. Add one-fourth cupful of lemon 
juice, when cool, and one cupful of blackberry juice. 
When the mixture begins to harden, beat until 
light; add the whip from two cupfuls of cream, 
and beat until stiff enough to drop. Mold. Serve 
with a garnish of whipped cream and whole berries. 

BLACKBERRY CUSTARD 

Line a deep dish with dead ripe blackberries. 
Beat the yolks of five eggs to a cream with seven 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and stir in two 
cupfuls of hot milk. Cook this in a double boiler 
until it becomes a smooth custard, then add a dash 
of salt and two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. When 
almost cold pour in between the berries and set 
away to harden. 

BLACKBERRY GELATIN 

Make a blackberry jelly pouring a thin layer in 
a shallow square pan. Allow the mixture to partly 
set, then arrange very large and ripe blackberries 
in rows on the jelly. Pour over these the remain- 
ing jelly and let chill. Cut in cubes, each contain- 
ing a whole berry. Serve, piled on a plate, and 
garnish with whipped cream put through the pastry 
bag. 



144 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

BLACKBERRY JELLY 

I quart blackberries i}i tablespoonfuls granti- 

I lemon lated gelatin 

I cupful sugar water 

Wash berries carefully, crush, and put in a sauce- 
pan with the sugar, allowing them to simmer for 
five minutes to draw out the juices. Rub through 
a fine sieve; add the juice of the whole lemon and 
the grated rind of half. Add enough water to 
make three cupfuls of liquid, heat but do not 
boil, and stir in the gelatin, which should be pre- 
viously soaked in two-thirds cupful of cold water. 
Pour into individual molds, let stand until the next 
day and serve with sweetened whipped cream. 

BLACKBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Heat one and one-half cupfuls of blackberry juice 
and pour over four egg yolks, slightly beaten, with 
one cupful of sugar and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt. Cook mixture in double boiler until thick- 
ened; remove from fire; add one- fourth cup- 
ful of the cold fruit juice. When cold and begin- 
ning to set, whip with the Dover egg-beater and 
then fold in two cupfuls of cream, whipped until 
stiff. Turn in a mold and let chill. It should have 
a spongy texture. Do not use any of the cream that 
has drained through in whip. 



BLACKBERRIES 145 

BLACKBERRY PIE 

Wash and drain one quart of blackberries; put 
them in a pie plate lined with rich paste; dust with 
cinnamon; dot with bits of butter; sprinkle with 
one cupful of sugar mixed with one tablespoonful 
of cornstarch and a dash of salt; cover with paste 
having slits for the steam to escape, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING 

Sift two cupfuls of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and one-half teaspoonful of salt; 
rub in two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter and 
moisten with about one cupful of milk to which 
has been added one beaten egg; put a thin layer of 
the dough in a buttered dish, cover with one quart 
of blackberries, then with another layer of the 
dough ; place in a steamer and steam for about forty 
minutes ; serve with hard sauce. 

BAKED BLACKBERRY PUDDING 

One beaten egg, one-half cupful sugar, one cup- 
ful milk. Add two cupfuls flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, sifted to- 
gether. Put half the butter in greased pudding 
dish; cover with two cupfuls berries; spread over 
remaining batter ; bake in moderate oven or steam 
one hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 



146 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Lemon Sauce: Half cupful sugar, two level 
tablespoon fuls flour, one-half teaspoonful salt. 
Moisten with very Httle cold water ; add two cup fuls 
boiling water, cook till clear ; add juice of one-half 
lemon or one teaspoonful lemon extract and small 
piece of butter. 

BLACKBERRY BREAD PUDDING 

Soak two cupfuls of bread crumbs in two and a 
half cupfuls of milk, then add three-quarters of a 
cupful of sugar, two well beaten eggs and a pinch 
of salt. Then add one cupful of preserved black- 
berries. Bake in a buttered pudding dish in a slow 
oven for an hour. 

BLACKBERRY MOUSSE 

Soak two tablespoon fuls of gelatin in one-half 
a cupful of blackberry juice. Add a syrup made of 
one and one-half cupfuls of blackberry juice and 
one cupful of sugar. Beat until cool, then fold in 
two cupfuls of cream, whipped until stiff. Pour 
in mold. 

BLACKBERRY SPONGE 

Into a pudding dish put a layer of thin bread and 
butter, then one of hot blackberry juice; continue 
using bread, butter and juice until the dish is full. 
Let it stand to get very cold. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 



BLACKBEEEIES 147 

BLACKBERRY VINEGAR 

Put four quarts of fresh blackberries in a stone 
jar; pour over them one quart of good cider vine- 
gar ; cover closely ; let stand two weeks, then strain ; 
pour the vinegar over two quarts of fresh berries; 
let stand one week; strain; pour over two more 
quarts of fresh berries; let stand two weeks and 
strain again. Add one and one-half pounds of 
granulated sugar to each quart of vinegar ; heat to 
the boiling point; remove all scum as it rises, then 
bottle and seal. 



XVIII. STRAWBERRIES 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

strawberries 
granulated sugar 

Use only fresh, clean fruit, and do not wash. 
Hull the berries, and for each cupful of fruit meas- 
ure one cupful of granulated sugar, put in an 
enamel kettle, place at once over a hot fire and 
stir. The juice thus extracted will make abundant 
syrup. Boil twelve minutes, and then pour into 
sterilized jelly glasses. It is best to make this pre- 
serve in small amounts as the color and flavor can 
thus be retained to better advantage. When cold 
the glasses should be sealed with paraffin. The 
fruit will keep indefinitely. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE 

Press one quart of hulled strawberries through 
a sieve; add six tablespoonfuls of sugar and the 
beaten whites of six eggs. Mix lightly; pour into 
a buttered dish and bake slowly for forty minutes. 
Serve at once with cream. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 
One quart of water, two and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar, one and one-half cupfuls of strawberry juice, 
strained. Prepare like lemon ice. 

148 



STEAWBEEEIES 149 

FROZEN STRAWBERRY CREAM 

2 cupfuls sugar i quart strawberries 

I cupful water i cupful cream 

Make a syrup by boiling together the sugar and 
water; add the berries cut into halves and simmer 
them in the syrup for fifteen minutes. Remove the 
fruit, add the cream to the remaining syrup, cool 
and freeze rather soft. Now add the strawberries, 
pack down closely, and set aside for two hours to 
ripen. 

STRAWBERRY FLUFF NO. i 

1 box strawberries ij4 cupfuls sugar 

2 egg whites few grains salt 

3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 

Hull the berries, crush and combine with one cup- 
ful of the sugar and let stand for at least an hour. 
Then strain off one and one-half cupfuls of juice 
and bring to boiling point. In the meantime, mix 
together the cornstarch, sugar, and salt, add a little 
of the hot juice, combine the two mixtures, and let 
boil until a thick paste is formed. It should cook 
at least fifteen minutes. Beat the egg-whites and 
pour in the cornstarch mixture, beating constantly. 
Turn into a mold wet with cold water and let stiffen. 
Serve with the crushed fruit about the base. 

STRAWBERRY JUNKET 

Allow one quart of new milk to become lukewarm 
on the back of the range, then pour it into a glass 



150 FRUITS AND THEIB COOKERY 

dish, sweeten to taste, and flavor with lemon. Add, 
stirring slightly, one rennet tablet or three-fourths 
of a tablespoonful of liquid rennet. Then set it 
away to cool, being careful not to jar it. Just be- 
fore serving fill sherbet glasses with alternate 
spoonfuls of the junket and sliced and sweetened 
strawberries. Heap whipped cream on top, and put 
one fine large berry dusted with granulated sugar 
in the center. Serve with any delicate cake. 

STRAWBERRY FRITTERS 

I cupful flour 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Yz teaspoonful salt 3 eggs 
I teaspoonful baking milk 

powder J^ box strawberries 
frying fat 

Add to the flour, salt, and baking powder, sifted 
together, the beaten eggs and a very little milk, to 
form a batter. Cut strawberries into halves, 
sweeten them, and add to the batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls into a frying pan in which is a little hot 
fat; cook until golden brown on both sides, then 
sprinkle with sugar and garnish with a few fresh 
berries. 

STRAWBERRY ROLL 



2 cupfuls flour 


I teaspoonful salt 


lYn teaspoonfuls baking 


milk 


powder 


strawberries 


2 tablespoonfuls butter 


sugar 



First, sift together flour, salt and baking powder, 
rub in the butter, then mix with the milk, as for 



STRAWBERRIES 151 

biscuit dough. Roll out, spread thickly with straw- 
berries, then with sugar, and dredge a little flour 
over them. Roll up as for a jelly roll, moistening 
the edges of the dough with milk that they may 
stick together; tie in a cheesecloth and steam for 
one hour. Or, if preferred, lay the roll on a baking 
sheet, brush over with milk and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven. In either case, serve with straw- 
berry sauce or with any preferred sweet sauce. 

STRAWBERRY TRIFLE 

Flavor one pint of double cream with half a 
teaspoonful of lemon extract, then whip to a froth. 
Arrange finger strips of cake log-cabin fashion in 
a shallow glass dish and fill the center with alter- 
nate layers of the cream and fine ripe sweetened 
berries. Place the cream that is left in a ring 
around the outside of the cake. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRY NECTAR 

Whip one pint of sweet double cream until thick. 
Fold in two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one-half 
cupful of finely chopped blanched almonds and one 
quart of strawberries slightly crushed. Turn into 
a pudding mold having a tube in the center. Pack 
in ice and salt, cover with a heavy blanket and let 
stand in a cool place for three or four hours. 
When ready to serve, turn out carefully, and fill the 
hollow center with sweetened berries mixed with 
whipped cream. 



152 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

STRAWBERRY SALAD NO. i 

Yi cupful strained honey i tablespoonful lemon juice 

3 yolks of eggs i cupful cream 

Yi. teaspoonful salt i cupful cream cheese 

J4 teaspoonful paprika 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

I quart strawberries 

Bring honey to boiling point, pour slowly, while 
beating constantly, onto egg yolks, beaten until 
thick and lemon colored. Cook one minute, remove 
from fire, and stir occasionally until cool. Add 
salt, paprika, lemon juice, and cream beaten until 
stiff. Moisten cheese with two tablespoonfuls 
cream, shape like strawberries, using buttered 
hands, and sprinkle with paprika. Arrange cheese 
and strawberries on lettuce and pour honey dress- 
ing around them. 

STRAWBERRIES AND PINEAPPLE 

Wash and hull large strawberries, allowing six 
or eight to a person; cut fresh ripe pineapple in 
strips about one quarter inch thick and one inch 
long, insert in the berfies to replace the hulls. Ar- 
range individually and garnish with whipped cream, 
which has been sweetened to taste with powdered 
sugar, 

STRAWBERRY TAPIOCA 

I cupful tapioca J4 cupful sugar 

I pint boiling water J^ box strawberries 

juice of half a lemon 



STEAWBEEEIES 153 

Cook the tapioca in the boiling water until clear, 
using a double boiler for the purpose. Crush the 
strawberries slightly, add them to the tapioca, to- 
gether with the sugar, cook ten minutes, stir in 
the lemon juice and set aside to cool. Serve plain, 
or with custard or cream. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

I cupful powdered sugar 
3 tablespoonfuls butter 
6 or 8 ripe strawberries 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream as for hard 
sauce, and during the beating add the berries, one 
at a time, mashing them thoroughly in with the 
other ingredients. When all have been added, pile 
the sauce high in a dish and set aside to cool 
until needed. This is good served with any plain 
hot pudding. 

STRAWBERRY NESTS 

Soak half a box of gelatin in half a cupful of 
cold water for half an hour, then add a pint of boil- 
ing water, a cupful of granulated sugar, and the 
juice of two lemons. Mix in the whites of two eggs, 
well beaten, and stir over the fire until the gelatin 
is dissolved, but not allowed to boil. Tinge it a very 
delicate green with a little vegetable coloring. 
Strain, and after slightly cooling put a spoonful in 
the bottom of each individual mold. Small bowls 
do nicely for these. Let the jelly harden in 



154 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the molds, then stand smaller molds, which may be 
tumblers, inside on the jelly. Fill the space between 
the two bowls with the jelly and let it harden. Af- 
ter brushing the inside of the smaller mold with 
hot water remove it carefully. Fill the space va- 
cated with strawberry charlotte, and stand in a cold 
place for at least four hours. 

JELLY RUSSE 

Ij4; tablespoon fuls gelatin i cupful strawberry syrup 

J4 cupful cold water 2 cupfuls cream 

y3 cupful boiling water i small jelly roll 

Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve in boiling 
water. Add strawberry syrup, drained from one 
quart strawberries that have been standing with 
one cupful sugar for several hours. Set bowl 
containing mixture in pan of ice water, and 
stir until mixture begins to thicken, then fold in 
stiffly beaten cream. Cut jelly roll in one-half 
inch slices. Line a charlotte russe mold with slices 
and fill with the mixture, chill, and unmold for 
serving. 

STRAWBERRYADE 

To one and one-half cupfuls of strawberry juice 
add the juice of three oranges and two lemons. 
Sweeten with about one cupful of sugar and one 
quart of cold water, and chill. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING 

Cream one-half cupful of butter with six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, add two well-beaten eggs, one 



STRAWBEEEIES 155 

cupful of flour, pinch of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
of baking powder, one tablespoonful of strawberry 
jam and a few drops of red color. Pour into but- 
tered pudding mold, cover with buttered paper and 
steam gently for two hours. Turn out and decorate 
with ripe strawberries which have been slightly 
stewed in syrup. To make the syrup, mix one cup- 
ful of sugar and one-half cupful of water and boil 
for two minutes. 

STRAWBERRY SYRUP 

Boil a cupful of fresh strawberry juice (obtained 
as in making jelly) with a cupful of sugar to a thick 
syrup; cool, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and 
pour into a sauceboat. Serve icy cold with por- 
tions of ice cream. Red raspberries, cherries, 
peaches, grapes, quinces, in fact any kind of fruit, 
may be used for these delicious syrups, affording 
opportunity for unlimited variety. It is an excellent 
plan to make and bottle these syrups in season, us- 
ing preferably bottles that are small enough to hold 
only sufficient for one serving. However, the juice 
of canned fruit may be used when fresh fruit is not 
obtainable, but allow only half a cupful of sugar to 
a cupful of juice. 

STRAWBERRY SORBET 

3 cupfuls of sugar 3 pints of water 

2 lemons 2 quarts of strawberries 

I pint of cream 



156 FEUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Press the strawberries through a fruit sieve, then 
add one cupful of sugar. Mix the grated rind of 
one lemon with the remaining two cupfuls of sugar. 
Then add water and boil twenty minutes. When 
thoroughly cool, add the mashed strawberries and 
lemon juice. Freeze twenty minutes, then add 
cream, which should be whipped to a stiff froth, 
then freeze again until thoroughly frozen. 

BAKED CUSTARD WITH STRAWBERRY 
SAUCE 

Beat slightly four eggs, whites and yolks to- 
gether. Add one quart of fresh milk, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Bake in cups placed in a pan 
of water in a moderate oven. When done, allow 
the custard to become cold, and then place it in the 
icebox a few hours before serving. 

To make this sauce, boil for five minutes a half 
cupful of water and one cupful of sugar; add a cup- 
ful of strawberry juice and boil for five minutes 
longer, then cool. At serving time, turn out the 
individual custard molds and pour the cold sauce 
over them and garnish with large fresh berries. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak one tablespoonful gelatin in cold water five 
minutes, and dissolve by standing the cup contain- 
ing the mixture in hot water. Strain into the straw- 
berry juice mixed with the lemon juice. Add sugar 



STEAWBEEEIES 157 

and when the sugar is dissolved set the bowl con- 
taining the mixture in a pan of ice water and stir 
until it begins to thicken ; then fold in cream. Turn 
into a wet mold lined with strawberries cut in 
halves, and chill. Garnish with whole strawberries 
and leaves. 

STRAWBERRY COTTAGE PUDDING 

Rub to a cream one tablespoonful of butter and 
half a cupful of sugar; add one beaten egg, half a 
cupful of milk and finally one cupful of flour 
mixed and sifted with two teaspoon fuls of baking 
powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. Beat thor- 
oughly, turn into a pan having a tube in the center 
and bake half an hour. Turn out on serving dish, 
fill the center with fresh strawberries cut in halves 
and sweetened, and serve with whipped cream 
sauce. 

Whipped cream sauce: Beat the white of one 
egg to a foam, add one cupful of heavy cream and 
beat until thick, then add half a cupful of powdered 
sugar and flavor delicately with orange extract. 

STRAWBERRIES AND BONNY CLABBER 

To make bonny clabber take milk that is just at 
the turning point and set it in the sun or in a warm 
place by the fire where it will complete the souring 
quickly, turning to the consistency of baked custard. 
It should then be set on ice and kept cold until just 
ready to serve. It is a good plan to pour the milk 



158 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

into a glass bowl before it sets, as it looks more at- 
tractive when brought to the table without having 
been poured out of one dish into another. It may 
be eaten plain with the strawberries, 'Or 'with sugar, 
cream and grated nutmeg. 

STRAWBERRY RICE 

One-thirdicupful'of rice, three«cupfuls milk, one- 
quarter level teaspoonful salt, one cupful ripe ber- 
ries, one-half cupful water, one cupful sugar, 
chipped rind of one half orange. Wash the rice, 
putmilk into a double boiler, add rice, salt and 
cook until the rice is soft and has absorbed all the 
milk, turn into individual cups or a large mold and 
when cold turn out and serve with strawberry- 
sauce. Put the sugar and water and the orange 
rind into a small saucepan, heat slowly, stirring un- 
til the sugar is dissolved. Boil gently to a heavy 
syrup, one that will spin a thread when dropped 
from the tip of a spoon, remove from fire and add 
berries which have been washed, hulled and cut 
into halves. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE 

Whites of two eggs, beaten until stiff, add one 
cupful confectioner's sugar, one cupful crushed 
strawberries. Beat for about one-half hour with 
egg-beater, and spread on cake. 



STRAWBEERIES 159 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE 

To two cupfuls of strawberries, hulled and 
washed, add one and one-half cupfuls of cold water 
and cook ten minutes with one-half cupful of sugar. 
Put through a fine strainer and add one tablespoon- 
ful of granulated gelatin. Pour into a dish to cool. 
When it begins to congeal, add the whites of two 
eggs which have been beaten stiff. Whip the whole 
with an egg-beater and turn into custard cups or 
frappe glasses. Serve with a soft custard made 
with the yolks of the two eggs and one whole egg, 
beaten with one-half cupful of sugar and a few 
grains of salt. Pour on two cupfuls of hot milk 
and cook in a double boiler a few minutes. Serve 
both ice cold. 

STRAWBERRY OMELET 

Use any good omelet recipe, leave out pepper and 
add one teaspoonful of sugar and either water or 
the juice of the fruit instead of milk. When ready 
to fold spread with fruit well sweetened. Put 
whipped cream on top of the fruit fold, shake on 
powdered sugar and serve immediately. 

STRAWBERRY COCKTAILS 

Select large perfect berries and cut them in 
halves, saving every particle of juice. For four 
portions use half a box of ripe berries and add the 



160 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

juice and pulp of one large orange, three table- 
spoonfuls of honey, the juice of one lemon and four 
tablespoonfuls of shaved (not chopped) ice. Fill 
into cocktail glasses and insert in each a sprig of 
fresh mint. 

ICED STRAWBERRY FOOL 

Crush one pound of fresh strawberries in a 
bowl with the strained juice of one-half lemon and 
three-fourths of a cupful of sugar. Rub them 
through a fine sieve. Beat one cupful of cream, stir 
into this the strawberry puree, add a little more 
sugar if not sweet enough and just a drop or two 
of red color. Freeze and serve in glasses. 

STRAWBERRIES A LA FRANCAISE 

Soak one cupful of perfect strawberries in one 
cupful of orange juice for an hour, sweeten to taste 
serve in small glasses with lady fingers. 

STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED WITHOUT 
COOKING 

To each cupful of berries (hulled and washed) 
add one cupful of sugar, and let stand over night 
on ice. In the morning place in jars and seal. 

STRAWBERRY PIE 

Wash and hull one basket strawberries add one 
generous cupful of sugar and a little water. Bring 
quickly to a boil before the berries get broken or 



STEAWBEEEIES 161 

lose their color. Thicken with cornstarch dissolved 
in a little cold water. Bake with rich crust with 
lattice top. May be served with cream. 

STRAWBERRY MERINGUE 

Make a puff paste, cut out the size of a dinner 
plate, bake to a light brown in a quick oven. Draw 
to the oven door; lay strawberries rolled in sugar 
over it; cover these an inch deep with a meringue 
made of the whites of four eggs beaten stiff with 
three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Bake until 
meringue is faintly tinged a yellow brown. To be 
served warm. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD NO. 2 

I head chicory a few chopped pistachio nuts 

I box large strawberries cream mayonnaise 

6 slices pineapple (canned) 

Wash chicory and crisp in ice-water. Wash and 
hull berries; let stand in refrigerator until cold. 
Arrange chicory on individual plates, placing a slice 
of pineapple in the center of each. Cover pineapple 
with berries; top with cream mayonnaise, garnish 
with nuts. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

Boil one quart of hot water and one pint of 
sugar for five minutes; cool; add the juice of two 
lemons, the juice of two oranges and one pint of 
crushed strawberries. Partially freeze; add the 



162 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

beaten white of one egg and continue freezing until 
solid. 

STRAWBERRY FLUFF NO. 2 

Crush two cupfuls of strawberries and cook them 
with one and one-half cupfuls of granulated sugar 
until they are thick. When thoroughly cool, stir 
in four finely crushed lady fingers. Beat this mix- 
ture, a spoonful at a time, into the stifHy beaten 
whites of four eggs. Line a mold with blanched 
almonds, and fill it with the mixture ; place in pan 
of boiling water, and bake in the oven for one-half 
hour. When cool, invert on dish and serve with 
cream. 

STRAWBERRY AND MACAROON ICE 

Sprinkle one box strawberries with one cupful 
sugar, cover and let stand two hours. Mash, 
squeeze through cheesecloth and add juice of one 
lemon and a few grains salt. Pour into a quart 
brick mold, adding enough cold water to half fill 
the mold. Mix one-half pint heavy cream and one- 
third cupful milk and beat until stiff. Add one- 
third cupful powdered sugar, two-thirds cupful 
rolled macaroon drops, one-half tablespoonful 
vanilla, and a few grains salt. Pour on enough 
strawberry juice to overflow the mold, cover with 
buttered paper and with the tin cover. Pack in 
equal parts of ice and salt and let stand three 
hours. 



STEAWBEEEIES 163 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE 

Soak one teaspoonful of gelatin in a little cold 
water; when soft, dissolve in a little hot water. 
Mash and put through a vegetable strainer one box 
of strawberries sweetened to taste; put in bottom of 
covered mold. Whip, sweeten and flavor with one- 
half teaspoonful of vanilla, one cupful of cream 
and put on top of berries. Cover with paraffin 
paper before putting on cover. Pack in ice and salt 
and let stand about six hours. 

STRAWBERRY AND RHUBARB CONSERVE 

One quart of strawberries, one-half box of 
chopped seeded raisins, one pound of white sugar, 
one-fourth pound of nut meats chopped, pulp and 
grated rind of two oranges, two quarts of cut-up 
rhubarb. Put all together in a saucepan (save 
nuts) and cook slowly one-half hour, then add 
nuts. Mix well. Put in jelly glasses and cover with 
paraffin. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

4 pounds of strawberries 
2^ pounds of sugar 

Hull and mash the berries; add sugar, cook 
thirty minutes, stirring very often. When thick 
turn into jelly glasses and cover. 



164 FRUITS AND THEIR .COOKERY 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

3 cupfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

Yz teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls lard 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- i cupful milk 
der 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add butter and 
lard and chop until well blended ; add milk. When 
well mixed, spread evenly on a large greased pie tin. 
Bake ten or fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Heat 
a knife in hot water and split the cake ; have ready 
the following filling: Sift one cupful of sugar 
through one quart of berries; let stand for some 
little time to melt the sugar. Take out one cupful 
of this for the sauce. Butter the shortcake and put 
half the berries and sugar between and the other 
half on top. Serve warm. 

Sauce: One cupful each of berries and sugar, 
one and one-half cupfuls cream or top of the bottle. 
Beat all together and serve with the shortcake. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP 

2 cupfuls strawberries 2 egg whites 

I cupful powdered sugar Ya teaspoonful salt 
I tablespoonful lemon juice 

Crush the berries ; add the sugar and lemon juice. 
Beat eggs until stiff and continue beating while 
adding strawberry mixture. 



XIX. GOOSEBERRIES 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM 

I pint gooseberries 3 egg yolks 

I cupful granulated sugar }i cupful sugar 
J4 cupful water J4 teaspoonful orange ex- 

I pint milk tract 

whipped cream 

Stew the gooseberries and the cupful of sugar 
and water together till soft, then strain. Make a 
boiled custard of the milk, egg yolks, remaining 
sugar, and flavoring, stir in the gooseberries, chill, 
and serve very cold in a deep glass dish with the 
whipped cream piled on top. 

PRESERVED GOOSEBERRIES 

Twelve pounds of gooseberries, eight pounds of 
sugar, one quart of water. Let the sugar and water 
boil twenty minutes, stir in the fruit and cook gently 
until fruit is tender, stir as little as possible and 
do not boil. Seal while hot. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

Cap and stem five pounds of gooseberries, add 
four pounds of sugar, one pint of cider vinegar and 
two tablespoon fuls each of ground cinnamon and 

165 



166 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

cloves. Cook slowly for two hours, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent burning, turn into jelly glasses 
and seal with paraffin when cold. 

GOOSEBERRY AND CURRANT JAM 

To a gallon of gooseberries use one quart of 
red currant juice prepared as for jelly and six 
pounds of sugar. Make a syrup with the currant 
juice and the sugar ; then add the gooseberries that 
have been stemmed and tailed. Simmer slowly until 
the berries are a clear red color, then fill into glass 
jars. Boil the juice down to the jelly stage, and 
pour over the fruit and seal. 

BAR-LE-DUC GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS 
Take an equal quantity of gooseberries and cur- 
rants, and to each pound of the fruit allow an 
equal quantity of sugar. Add just enough water 
to the sugar to dissolve it, and boil to the consistency 
of honey; then add the currants and gooseberries 
and boil the juice to a thick jelly-like syrup, or until 
it coats the skimmer ; pour into jelly-glasses or pint 
jars, and seal. Either currants or gooseberries may 
be used alone. 

GOOSEBERRY-PINEAPPLE 

Use one medium-sized pineapple to each two 
quarts of gooseberries and about four pounds of 
sugar. Carefully prepare the fruit. Add enough 
water to dissolve the sugar, boil to the consistency 



GOOSEBERRIES 167 

of honey, add the fruits and simmer slowly for 
several minutes. Boil the syrup until it thickens, 
and pour over the fruit. Fill the fruit into jars, 
and seal. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL 

Stew one quart of gooseberries in the smallest 
possible amount of water. When soft, rub them 
through a sieve to remove the skins. Press hard 
so that every bit of the pulp will go through. Add 
sugar to make as sweet as desired, and to every pint 
of pulp add very slowly one pint of cream or rich 
milk. Serve very cold with delicate cake. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (BOILED) 

Line a pudding dish with rich biscuit crust rolled 
one-half inch thick. Pill with uncooked goose- 
berries, liberally sprinkled with brown sugar, and 
cover with a top crust. Pinch the edges of the 
crusts well together, tie over it a floured cloth, and 
boil for two and a half hours in water which rhust 
not cease boiling from the moment the pudding 
is put in until it is done. Serve with sweet sauce. 

GOOSEBERRY ICE 

Cook one quart of gooseberries in one pint of 
water, sweeten to taste and strain. Add six lemons, 
two quarts of water, sugar enough to sweeten, and 
freeze slightly. Add the beaten whites of four eggs 
or one pint of cream and finish freezing. 



168 FEUITS AND THEIR .COOKERY 

GOOSEBERRY CONSERVE 

Five pounds of gooseberries, four pounds 
sugar, one and one-half pounds of seedless raisins, 
juice and chopped rind of four oranges. Boil about 
forty-five minutes or until it is the consistency of 
jam. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING 

Cut the tops and stems from a quart of goose- 
berries, add one cupful of water and simmer until 
soft, then drain off the water and rub the berries 
through a colander. Put two cupfuls of the pulp 
in a double boiler, add the beaten yolks of four eggs 
and one cupful of sugar, stir until thick, remove 
from the fire, stir in the stiffly beaten whites and 
flavor with two tablespoonfuls of orange flower 
water. Serve cold. 

GOOSEBERRY SOUFFLE 

Boil one quart of fine gooseberries in just enough 
water to keep from burning. When soft, press 
through a sieve. Beat in the whites of five eggs 
which have been whipped to a stiff froth with half 
a pound of powdered sugar. Flavor with nutmeg 
and lemon. When very stiff, whip lightly in the 
stiffly whipped whites of three more eggs, and set 
the dish in a hot oven for five minutes before serv- 
ing. 



GOOSEBERRIES 169 

GOOSEBERRY BREAD PUDDING 

Stew one quart of gooseberries until soft; mash 
to a pulp, and add two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of bread crumbs, the yolks of four eggs and the 
whites of two beaten separately, and a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. Then remove to the edge of the oven and 
spread over the top a meringue made with the 
whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar. Return to the oven again and brown 
very delicately with the oven door partly open. 

GOOSEBERRY SPONGE 

Soak one-half box of gelatin in half a cupful of 
cold water for one hour. Cook one quart of goose- 
berries in a very little water until soft. Press them 
through a sieve, and sweeten with half a cupful of 
sugar. Boil one cupful of sugar with one cupful 
of water for twenty minutes. Add the soaked gela- 
tin to the boiling syrup, and stir until it is all dis- 
solved. Remove from the fire and add the goose- 
berry pulp. Turn into a bowl and set this in a pan 
of cracked ice. Whip with an egg beater for five 
minutes or until it begins to thicken. Then beat 
in the stiffly whipped whites of four eggs, and whip 
until it is quite stiff. Pour into wetted molds and 
set on ice. When time to serve, turn out on a glass 
dish, and serve with whipped cream. 



170 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

GOOSEBERRY MERINGUE 

Cut off the tops and stems from one quart of 
gooseberries, cook them in one cupful of water until 
tender. Press through a colander to remove the 
skins, place over boiling water, stir in two tea- 
spoonfuls of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar and the beaten yolks of three eggs and cook 
and stir until the eggs are set. Turn into a dish, 
cover with the whites of the eggs beaten until stiff 
and sweetened with three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and brown delicately in the oven. Serve cold. 

STEWED GOOSEBERRIES 

. Cut the tops and stems from one quart of goose- 
berries, add one cupful of water and two cupfuls of 
sugar and cook very gently until soft. 



XX. ELDERBERRIES 

ELDERBERRY WITH APPLE FOR JELLY 

Cut up apple peelings and cores and cover them 
with hot water ; then remove the coarse stems from 
about one-third as many elderberries and place 
them on top of apples, stew and proceed as for any 
apple jelly. 

ELDER BLOSSOM WINE 

Allow a gallon of water to each quart of stripped 
flowers, and to each gallon of water three pounds of 
sugar. Make a syrup of the sugar and water, skim- 
ming well, and pour while boiling hot over the flow- 
ers. For each gallon of this liquid add the juice 
of one lemon and a heaping dessertspoonful "home 
brewed" hop yeast, stirring thoroughly. Place in 
an earthen receptacle, cover with a heavy cloth and 
let ferment three days. Strain and add the beaten 
white of one egg, stirring it well through the liquid.' 
Allow for each gallon of wine a little over a pound 
of raisins, chopping them and placing them on the 
bottom of the cask, pour over the liquid, close the 
bung and in six months it will be found ready for 
use. 

171 



172 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

ELDERBERRY WINE 

Extract the juice; for every quart of juice add 
two quarts of water and three pounds of sugar. Put 
in boiler and bring to a boil, add sugar, let boil ten 
minutes, put in jugs. Fill every day until it stops 
working. Have enough left to refill as it works 
away. 



XXI. CRANBERRIES 

CRANBERRY MARMALADE. TO SERVE WITH 

MEATS 

Wash three quarts of cranberries, barely cover 
with water and cook until the berries are tender. 
Press through a sieve and add to this juice and 
pulp six pounds of warm sugar, two pounds of 
seeded and chopped raisins and four large, very 
clean oranges. The oranges should be minced fine, 
thus using skin and pulp, but the seeds should be 
picked out. Cook until thick and turn into glass 
jars. The orange skins must be cooked until thor- 
oughly tender. 

FROZEN CRANBERRIES 

4 cupfuls cranberries 2 cupfuls boiling water 

Yi cupful seeded raisins juice one orange 

2j4 cupfuls sugar juice Yi lemon 

Cut raisins in halves, add to cranberries with 
sugar and water and cook fifteen minutes, skim- 
ming when necessary. Add fruit-juices, rub 
through a puree-strainer, cool and freeze to a mush, 
using three parts of ice to one part of salt. 

173 



174 FRUITS AND THEIR ,COOKERY 

SPICED CRANBERRIES 

2 quarts cranberries 2 tablespoonfuls ground 

Ys pint vinegar cinnamon 

Yz cupful water l tablespoonful ground 

6 cupfuls sugar cloves 

I tablespoonful allspice 

Combine the ingredients, boil gently for forty- 
five minutes, and put up as usual in jars or glasses. 

CRANBERRYADE 

One quart of cold water, one quart of cranber- 
ries, the juice of two lemons, the juice of two 
oranges and one and a half cupfuls of sugar. Cook 
the cranberries in water till they burst, add the 
sugar, boil one minute, cool, strain, add the fruit 
juice and dilute to the desired strength with cold 
water. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING 

Two cupfuls cranberries, one cupful seeded rai- 
sins, one cupful dry breadcrumbs, one and one-half 
cupfuls flour, three-quarters cupful honey, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one cupful beef suet, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, one-half cupful water. Cut the cran- 
berries in halves, put in bowl, add the crumbs, flour 
and suet, put through the food chopper or chop 
on board, add raisins, which have been floured, 
honey and salt. Mix all well together, add water 
enough to hold together. Brush mold with butter, 
put in mixture, cover and boil slowly one and one- 



CBANBERRIES 175 

half hours. Or the mold can be set in a pan of 
water, covered and put in oven two hours, 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Pick over and wash four cupfuls of cranberries. 
Put them in a saucepan with two cupfuls of boiling 
water and boil twenty minutes. Rub through a 
sieve, add two cupfuls of sugar and cook five min- 
utes. Turn into a mold or jelly glasses. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Into a saucepan put one and a half cupfuls of 
cranberries,; three-quarters of a cupful of sugar, 
one-half cupful of water. Cook ten minutes. Cool 
and bake in one crust with a rim and strips across. 

STEAMED CRANBERRY PUDDING 



Yt. cupful butter 


1% tablespoonfuls baking 


I cupful sugar 


powder 


3 eggs 


Yi cupful milk 


lYz cupfuls flour 


1^2. cupfuls cranberries 



Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and 
eggs well beaten. Mix and sift flour and baking 
powder and add alternately with milk to first mix- 
ture. Stir in the berries, turn into buttered mold, 
cover and steam three hours. Serve with cream. 

CRANBERRY PUFFS 

2 cupfuls cranberries i cupful milk 

2 cupfuls flour 4 teaspoonfuls baking 

4 tablespoonfuls shortening powder 

2 eggs I teaspoonful salt 



176 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add shortening and 
chop until mealy, add well-beaten eggs and cran- 
berries. Pour into pop-over bowls and steam an 
hour and a half. Serve with hard sauce. 



XXII. CURRANTS 

CURRANT PIE NO. i 
Two cupfuls of currants and one cupful of sugar. 
Cook one minute and add one teaspoonful of va- 
nilla. Pour into a deep pie plate with crust, sprinkle 
with flour and cover with top crust. 

BAR-LE-DUC CURRANT JELLY 

Clean and pick overripe currants, detaching the 
stems; to each pound of fruit allow a pound of 
granulated sugar. Pour the sugar on the currants, 
set in a cool place and let them stand over night. 
Next morning turn the berries carefully into a col- 
ander so as not to break them and let the juice 
drip from them. If the mixture is too thick to let 
the juice flow freely add a little water. Put the 
syrup over the fire and cook steadily for half an 
hour. Drop in the currants and cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes. Put up in jelly glasses or small 
jars. This is nearly as good as the imported bar-le- 
duc, and is better at the end of a few months than 
when first made. 

CURRANT PIE NO. 2 

2 eggs I cupful mashed currants 

I cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

I tablespoonful flour sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls water 

177 



178 FRUITS AND THEIE COOKEEY 

Fill a pie plate with crust with the following mix- 
ture : Beat the egg yolks with the sugar and add the 
flour, water and currants, which have been washed, 
stemmed and mashed. Mix thoroughly and bake 
until done. When cool cover with a meringue made 
by beating the whites of the eggs very stiff, adding 
gradually with the egg beater the sugar. Put in a 
moderate oven for about eight minutes. 

SPICED CURRANTS 

4 quarts fresh currants I tablespoonful liquid all- 

8 cupfuls sugar spice 

I pint vinegar, medium i tablespoonful liquid 

strength cloves 

I tablespoonful liquid cin- 
namon extract 

Mix together the sugar and vinegar and let boil 
for ten minutes. Then add the extracts. The cur- 
rants should be picked from the stem, washed and 
drained. Put about a half cupful at a time into the 
boiling syrup, then skim out and continue in this 
way until all are cooked. Remove any scum that 
may arise. After all the fruit is cooked, boil the 
syrup down until so rich and thick that it almost 
jellies, add the fruit again, let come to a boil, and 
seal in sterilized glasses. This is delicious with cold 
meats, and if diluted with crushed ice and ice water, 
makes a delicious currant drink. 

CURRANT ICE 
Boil two cupfuls of sugar and one cupful of 
water until it spins a thread, remove from the fire, 



CUEEANTS 179 

add three cupfuls of currant juice, strain, chill, turn 
into the freezer, pack in salt and ice, and partially 
freeze. Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff, fold 
in two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and add 
to the first mixture. Continue freezing until solid 
and let stand two hours to ripen. 



BLACK CURRANT PUDDING 

Make a biscuit batter and roll about one-fourth 
inch thick. Wash currants and shake, so just a 
little water is left on them. Place in baking dish, 
insert a cup or bowl (according to amount of fruit) 
in center of dish, add sugar to taste, lay on crust 
and bake. When done remove cup at table and the 
juice which has cooked into cup instead of over 
crust is like wine sauce. 



CURRANT CROQUETTES 

Pour one cupful of hot milk over two cupfuls 
stale cake crumbs, stir and cook over boiling water 
for five minutes, then add one-half cupful of cur- 
rants, one-half cupful of chopped nut meats and 
one-eighth teaspoonful of salt. Remove from the 
fire, add immediately the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla and spread 
on a buttered plate to cool. Shape into croquettes, 
roll in fine crumbs, dip in beaten egg, roll again in 
crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with sauce. 



180 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKEET 

CURRANT RELISH 

Five cupfuls of clear red currant juice, four cup- 
fuls of white sugar, pinch of salt, two cupfuls of 
stoned raisins, the grated yellow rinds of two 
oranges and the juice and pulp of the oranges. Boil 
about twenty minutes and skim carefully. If the 
raisins and juice look clear and rich it is cooked 
enough. Put in jars and seal. 

A CURRANT PUNCH 

Put in a saucepan one cupful of sugar, three 
quarts of water and two tumblers of red currant 
jelly. Let it boil until the jelly is thoroughly dis- 
solved, then add the juice of three oranges and 
three lemons. Strain into a punch bowl and add 
to the beverage a large piece of ice. Scatter over 
the top of the punch a handful of ripe red currants 
stripped from their stems. 

CURRANT MERINGUE PIE 

Mix one cupful sugar and one fourth cupful 
flour, add yolks of two eggs, slightly beaten and 
diluted with two tablespoonfuls water. Wash cur- 
rants, drain, and remove stems. Add one cupful to 
the first mixture, bake in one crust ; cool, and cover 
with 

Meringue: Beat the whites of two eggs until 
stiff. Continue beating while adding gradually two 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Add one-half 



CUEEANTS 181 

tablespoonful lemon juice, spread on pie and bake 
fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 

RED CURRANT WINE 

One quart of water to each quart of juice. One 
pound of sugar to each quart of syrup. Crush the 
currants by rubbing them through a fine hair sieve, 
measure the juice, and add as much water; then 
pour over the sugar, allowing one pound to each 
quart; let this stand all night to dissolve; put into 
stone bottles, and as it works over refill the bottles 
for two or three days. Put it in a warm place for 
three weeks, and then lightly cork until it stops 
fermenting, then cork firmly, and watch that they 
do not fly; bottle in six months, taking care not to 
disturb the sediment at the bottom. The longer it 
stands before bottling the better. 



XXIII. GRAPES 



SPICED GRAPES 



Seven pounds of grapes, four pounds of sugar, 
one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of cin- 
namon and cloves, one teaspoonful allspice. Boil 
slowly two hours and put into jars. 

GRAPE CUP 

Either Malaga or Concord grapes may be used. 
Crush three pounds' of grapes, add four whole 
cloves, a scant teacupful of sugar, the juice of four 
oranges with a little of the grated rind and a leaf 
or two of lemon verbena. Bring to boiling point, 
cool, and let it stand in the ice chest to ripen for 
two or three hours. When ready to use press 
through a sieve, stirring in the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs, a quart of unfermented grape juice 
and a pint of seltzer ; turn into a glass pitcher filled 
a quarter of its depth with pounded ice, and serve 
in tumblers. 

MALAGA GRAPE SALAD 

Remove skin and seeds from Malaga grapes and 
add an equal quantity of English walnuts or pecans 
broken in pieces. Serve on lettuce leaves with 

182 



GRAPES 183 

French dressing and garnish with maraschino 
cherries. 

GRAPE FLUFF 

Soften half a tablespoonful of granulated gela- 
tin in a couple of tablespoonf uls of cold water : add 
half a cupful of boiling water, and dissolve. Add 
a quarter of a cupful of sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
and a quarter of a cupful of grape juice; strain, 
pour into a wet mold, and when firm force through 
a potato ricer. Serve very cold. 

GRAPE MERINGUE TART 

Make a rich pastry as for pie and line with it a 
deep tart or pudding form. Chill, brush with white 
of egg, prick with a fork and bake. Beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff, dry froth, add a cupful of 
sugar, vanilla to flavor and then gently incor- 
porate two cupfuls of grapes. Drop by the spoon- 
ful into the baked shell and bake in a slow oven 
until the meringue seems firm to the touch. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Ten poutids of grapes, three pounds of sugar, 
one cupful of water. Pick the grapes from the 
stems and wash clean; put them on the st6ve in a 
kettle with a little water, and cook until tender. 
Strain through a flannel bag. Do not squeeze it. 
Return juice to the kettle, add sugar and boil five 
minutes. Seal in glass jars when boiling hot. Slant 



184 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

the jars when filling to prevent cracking. When 
serving add nearly the same amount of water. 

GRAPE CATSUP 

To five pounds of grapes take one pint of vine- 
gar, cook until it can be strained through a sieve. 
To the juice add two pounds of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of black pepper, one teaspoonful of cloves, one 
teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon. Cook down to about two quarts. 

GRAPE JUICE JELLY 

Soak an envelope of granulated gelatin in half 
a cupful of cold water for five minutes, then dis- 
solve it and three-quarters of a cupful of granu- 
lated sugar in two cupfuls of boiling water and a 
cupful of grape juice. Let cool somewhat, then 
add a cupful of skinned, seeded and halved Malaga 
grapes. Turn into a mold wet with ice water and 
stand in the refrigerator or very cold place over 
night. Serve with plain cream. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY 

Pick the grapes when just beginning to turn. 
Pick them over, wash and remove stems; put into 
preserving kettle. Heat to boiling point, mash and 
boil thirty minutes. Strain through a coarse 
strainer, then allow juice to drop through a double 
thickness of cheesecloth or a jelly bag. Measure, 
bring to boiling point and boil five minutes ; add an 



GRAPES 185 

equal measure of heated sugar, boil two minutes, 
skim and pour into glasses. Place in a sunny win- 
dow and let stand twenty-four hours. Cover and 
keep in a cool, dry place. 

GRAPE WINE 

Twenty pounds of grapes, ten pounds of sugar, 
six quarts of boiling water. Mash the grapes in a 
stone jar, pour on them the boiling water and let 
it stand three days, covering the jar to keep out 
dust. Strain the fruit and juice through cheese- 
cloth bag, return the juice to the jar, add the sugar 
and let it remain until fermentation has ceased. 
Take off the screen, strain the juice and bottle 
tightly, pouring melted sealing wax on the corks. 
Lay the bottles on their sides in a cool place. 

SPICED GRAPE JELLY 

Set the stemmed grapes in the oven until well 
heated through. The fruit should be well colored, 
but not ripe. Crush and strain the juice through 
double cheesecloth, measure and set aside a cup- 
ful of sugar for every pint of juice and add half a 
teaspoon ful of cinnamon and cloves. Boil the juice 
rapidly twenty minutes, add the sugar hot and the 
spices. Boil ten minutes or until it jellies. 

GRAPE COCKTAILS 

Place in each glass three tablespoon fuls of the 
grape pulp, add one tablespoonful of diced sweet 



186 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

pear and cover with chilled grape juice. (Individ- 
ual portion.) 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

Pick over, wash, drain, and remove stems from 
grapes. Separate pulp from skins. Put pulp in 
preserving kettle, heat to boiling point and cook 
slowly until seeds separate from pulp, then rub 
through a hair sieve. Return to kettle with skins, 
add an equal measure of sugar and cook slowly 
thirty minutes, occasionally stirring to prevent 
burning. Put in a stone jar or tumblers. 

GRAPE SPONGE PUDDING 

Make grape juice by washing purple grapes, then 
mash or pulp them and cook slowly till soft, then 
strain. Take one cupful grape juice, one cupful 
water, boil and thicken with two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch and pinch of salt, wet with 
a little cold water, add one-half cupful sugar and 
stir constantly until thick. Let it cook (in double 
boiler) while beating the whites of two eggs to a 
stiflf froth, then pour the hot mixture onto the 
eggs. Mix well. Serve cold, with custard sauce 
made with yolks of two eggs, two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one even tablespoonful of sifted 
pastry flour, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt and 
one pint of hot milk. Cook till thickened, stirrmg 
constantly. 



GEAPES 187 

GRAPE CRAB-APPLE PRESERVE 

To each two pounds of grapes use one pound of 
crab-apples. Stew the grapes and the crab-apples 
until soft, then pass through a sieve. To each pint 
of pulp add one cupful of sugar and one-half tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, if liked. Simmer slowly un- 
til of the right consistency for preserve or jam. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

One quart of milk, one pound of sugar, one cup- 
ful of grape juice, the juice of one lemon. Mix and 
freeze. 

GRAPE JUICE FRAPPE 

I quart of grape juice 2 large lemons 

I quart of water i^ cupfuls sugar 

juice of 4 oranges Y^ pint cream 

Mix and pour into the can of the freezer. Churn 
until half frozen. Serve in punch cups. Decorate 
with whipped cream. The cream should be sweet- 
ened only a little if at all. This is sufficient for six- 
teen small glasses. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Pick grapes from stems and wash. Put grapes 
into boiling water. Let boil until soft and seeds 
are free ; then strain and measure juice. Put juice 
to boil. Have the same amount of sugar in a deep 
bowl. Try a spoonful of juice and the same of 
sugar and see if it will jelly by stirring together. 



188 FEUITS AND THEIE COOKERY 

If so, pour juice on the sugar in dish and keep 
stirring. When the sugar is all dissolved it will 
thicken; then pour into glasses. All jellies can be 
made this way. If when you try the little sugar 
and juice together it does not jelly boil the juice a 
little longer and try again. 

MALAGA GRAPE TARTS 

Boil two cupfuls of water and one cupful of 
sugar five minutes, add one-half box of gelatin 
softened in one-half cupful of cold water, stir until 
dissolved, then add the grated rind of one lemon 
and the juice of three, let stand five minutes and 
strain. Partly fill baked pastry shells with Malaga 
grapes from which the skins and seeds have been 
removed, pour in the jelly when it begins to stiflfen 
and place on ice until firm. 



XXIV. CHERRIES 

CHERRY WATER ICE 

Weigh the fruit and sugar ; allow a pound and 
a half of loaf sugar to each pound of fruit, half 
of a pint of water and the white of one egg. Stone 
the cherries before weighing, place them in a pre- 
serving kettle on the back of the range, letting them 
stand until the juice starts freely, but do not boil. 
When ready turn into a jelly bag and press thor- 
oughly. Combine the sugar, water and whites of 
eggs, let these boil, skimming occasionally until 
rich and transparent. Remove from the fire, add 
the juice, pack in a freezer and treat the same as 
ice-cream. 

CHERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak one-quarter of a box of granulated gelatin 
in one-third of a cupful of cold water, then set over 
hot water until melted. Whip one pint of very 
heavy cream to a solid froth, keeping it very cold. 
Gradually and lightly stir into it one-third of a cup- 
ful of powdered sugar and the melted gelatin. As 
the mixture thickens add gradually one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, and two-thirds of a cupful of candied 
cherries which have been cut fine. Turn into in- 

189 



190 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 

dividual molds or one large one and set away to 

stiffen. 

CHERRY SHORTCAKE 

Pit one quart of fine sweet cherries, cut them in 
halves with a silver knife, sprinkle generously with 
sugar and let stand one hour. Sift one pint of 
flour with one-half teaspoonful of salt and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, rub in one table- 
spoonful each of butter and lard, then add one egg 
well beaten and mixed with enough milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out half an inch thick, spread 
with softened butter and bake in a biscuit pan in 
two layers. When done spread the prepared cher- 
ries between the layers and over the top. 

FROZEN CHERRY PUDDING 

3 cupfuls of milk ij4 cupfuls of sugar 

Yz cupful of rice J^ teaspoonful of salt 

3 cupfuls of fresh cherries 

Put the milk in the top of a double boiler; add 
the well-washed rice, and steam for one hour and 
a half. Add the sugar and salt. Wash and pit 
the cherries ; chop fine, or put through a food chop- 
per. When the rice is cold add the cherries, and 
freeze at once. The amount of sugar must be 
guided by the kind of cherry used. 

CHERRY PIE 

I quart sour cherries few drops almond extract 

I cupful granulated sugar 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
few grains salt rich pie crust 



CHEREIES 191 

Mix together the sugar, salt, and flour, line a 
pie-plate with pastry, spread over half of the sugar, 
place on the cherries, which should be pitted, add 
extract, and sprinkle the rest of the sugar mixture 
over the cherries. Wet the lower crust around the 
edge, put the upper crust in place, press firmly to- 
gether, and then loosen from the pie-pan. Bake for 
ten minutes in a rather quick oven, then reduce 
heat and cook slowly for a half hour longer. 

CHERRY WINE 
Take four quarts of fruit, either sweet or sour, 
place in a mortar and slightly bruise without crush- 
ing the stones. To this add three quarts of water 
and let stand in a jar forty-eight hours. Strain, 
and to each four quarts of juice add three and one- 
half pounds of sugar if the fruit is acid, or three 
pounds if sweet. Fill into jugs, reserving a bottle 
of the liquid with which to keep the jars filled while 
fermenting. The openings of the jars should be 
kept covered with a thin cloth. After the fermen- 
tation ceases, cork tightly and keep in a cool place 
for three months; then drain off carefully and 

bottle. 

CRUSHED CHERRY CUP 

Cover three cupfuls of cherries with sugar and 
let them stand for two hours. Add to them the 
juice and pulp of two lemons, a shredded pineapple 
and one-half pound of chopped marshmallows. 
Sweeten again if necessary. Serve in sherbet 
glasses after the fruit has been well chilled. 



192 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



CHERRY CORDIAL 

Two quarts cherries, three pounds sugar, put into 
a gallon jug, which is then filled with cold water. 
Tie a piece of cheesecloth over top and put away 
for six months or more, then bottle. 

CHERRY PUFFS 

Yi cupful butter i cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 tablespoonfuls baking 
I cupful pitted cherries powder 

I t.g% 2 cupfuls flour 

Cream butter and sugar, and add the beaten ^%^, 
then the milk and flour sifted with baking powder 
and last of all the cherries. This makes six large 
puffs. Put into buttered cups and steam one-half 
to three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a sauce. 

CHERRY GELATIN 

Soak one tablespoonful granulated gelatin in 
one- fourth cupful cold water, dissolve in one-fourth 
cupful boiling water, and add one and one-half cup- 
fuls cherries, which have been stoned, cooked and 
sweetened to taste, and one-half cupful juice. When 
mixture begins to thicken, add the stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs and a few grains salt. Turn 
into a mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. 
Serve with cream. 



CHERRIES 193 

CHERRY PUDDING NO. i 

Butter a mold and fill two-thirds full ripe cher- 
ries. Make a batter of one-quarter cupful butter, 
one-half cupful sugar, one well beaten egg, one-half 
cupful milk, one and one-half cupfuls sifted 
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder and a 
little salt. Beat until light, pour over cherries in 
mold, put on tight fitted cover and steam one and 
one-half hours. Serve with sauce made as follows : 
Cream one-third cupful of butter, one cupful pow- 
dered sugar, add beaten white of an tgg and one- 
quarter cupful of strained cherry juice. 

CHERRY PUDDING NO. 2 

Beat one egg yolk until light, add one-third cup- 
ful sugar, beat, and add two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter. Mix,, and sift twice, one and one-fourth 
cupfuls flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder and 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Add alternately with 
one-half cupful milk to first mixture. Stir in one 
cupful cherries, stoned and cut in halves. Turn 
into a buttered and floured cake-pan and bake. 
Serve with two cupfuls hot stewed and stoned cher- 
ries, sweetened to taste and hard sauce. 

Hard sauce : Cream one-third cupful butter, add 
gradually one cupful powdered sugar, then carefully 
fold in one egg white, beaten stiff, and one-half cup 
beaten cream. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful 
vanilla. 



194 FKUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



PICKLED CHERRIES 

Pour three cupfuls of vinegar into a sauce-pan, 
add one-half cupful of brown sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of whole cloves and twelve blades of mace, boil 
five minutes, cool and strain. Fill glass jars with 
three quarts of firm sour cherries, pour in the spiced 
vinegar and seal at once. Do not stone the cher- 
ries. 

SPICED CHERRIES 

I pound pitted cherries J4 teaspoonful whole cloves 

Yi cupful cider vinegar J^ teaspoonful whole cinna- 

Yi pound brown sugar mon 

Heat all but fruit to boiling point and drop in 
pitted cherries. Cook fifteen minutes, fill glasses, 
and pour over hot spiced syrup. Seal. 

CHERRY AND CURRANT JAM 

3 quarts red cherries sugar equal in measure to 

I quart currants the combined fruits 

Pit the cherries, stem the currants and mix thor- 
oughly with the sugar. Add one tablespoonful or 
more, according to the taste, of the cherry pit meats. 
Boil for fifteen or twenty minutes and pour into 
jelly glasses, leaving a few of the pits in each jar. 
This is excellent with steamed puddings. 

FROSTED CHERRIES 

Select firm, ripe cherries having the stems at- 
tached, drop them into the white of an egg beaten 



CHEREIES 195 

to a foam, roll in powdered sugar and chill thor- 
oughly on ice. 

CHERRY DUFF 

4 cupfuls pitted cherries 4 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 cupfuls sugar der 

I teaspoonful vinegar I teaspoonful salt 

I tablespoonful butter J4 cupful milk 

2 cupfuls flour 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt; add butter; 
mix until mealy ; add milk. Put sugar, cherries and 
vinegar in bottom of buttered baking dish. Cover 
with flour mixture and steam forty-five minutes. 
Serve in dish in which it is cooked. 



CHERRY SAUCE 

154 cupfuls pitted cherries J4 glass currant jelly juice 
Yi cupful water and rind of yi lemon 

Yz cupful sugar i inch stick cinnamon 

Cook all ingredients until syrupy. Strain and 

serve. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES 

4 pounds cherries 
4 pounds sugar 

Wash cherries, remove stems and stones. Cover 
cherries with sugar, let stand two hours; then set 
on stove, and bring slowly to the boiling point. 
Cook until cherries are tender. Fill jars first with 
cherries, then with syrup. Seal. 



190 FRUITS AND THEIR COOKERY 



CANNED CHERRIES 

4 pounds cherries 
ii/2 pounds sugar 

Place cherries and sugar in preserving kettle and 
let stand two hours. Cook until tender, fill steri- 
lized jars and seal. 

CHERRY CROQUETTES 

2 cupfuls scalded milk % cupful cold milk 

%. cupful cornstarch yolks of 3 eggs 

J4 cupful flour Yz cupful maraschino cher- 

Yz cupful sugar ries cut in halves 

Y teaspoonful salt 

Mix cornstarch, flour,' sugar and salt. Dilute 
with cold milk and add beaten yolks, then add 
gradually to scalded milk and cook fifteen minutes 
in double boiler. Add cherries, pour into a buttered 
shallow pan and cool. Turn on a board, cut in 
pieces, dip in flour, e^gg and crumbs, fry in deep 
fat and drain. Serve with sauce. 

MARASCHINO SAUCE 

% cupful boiling water Y cupful Maraschino cher- 

J^ cupful sugar ries 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch J^ cupful Maraschino syrup 
Y2 tablespoooful butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add gradually to 
boiling water, stirring constantly. Boil five min- 
utes, and add cherries, syrup and butter. 



CHEBEIES 197 

CHERRY SALAD 

Pit the cherries, leaving as near whole as possible. 
Take slices of canned pineapple and arrange on 
lettuce leaves, the cherries to be piled on the slices 
of pineapple. Pour a French dressing over and 
serve very cold. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND CHERRY DESSERT 

Arrange lady fingers or slices of plain cake on a 
dish with deep sides. Fill the center with cottage 
cheese to which has been added a pint jar of pre- 
served cherries drained dry. These should be ar- 
ranged as in a charlotte russe. 



INDEX 



Apple and Date Salad, 7 
And Suet Pudding, 3 
And Sweet Potato Scallop, 
Batter Pudding, 15 
Biscuit, Dixie, 6 
Cake, 3 
Cereal Pie, 9 
Charlotte, 16 
Chutney, 9 

Corn Meal Muffins, 6 
Dumpling No. i. Baked, 18 
Dumpling No. 2, Baked, 19 
Foam, 4 
Fritters, 2 
Ginger, 12 
Indian Pudding, 15 
Jam, Blackberry and, 140 
Jelly, 13 

Jelly, Raspberry and, 140 
Layer Cake, 8 
Marmalade, 12 
Meringue, 14 
Omelet, S 
Pancakes, 7 
Pie, 2 

Pie, Dutch, 1 

Preserves, Quince and, 53 
Preserves, Sweet, 53 
Rice Pudding, 7 
Salad, I 

Sandwich Filling, 5 
Sauce Cake, 8 
Sauce Shortcake, 4 
Scalloped, 17 
Souffle, 17 
Sponge, 19 
Tapioca, 13 
Toast, 9 
Water, 10 



Apples and Pineapple, Canned, 
II 

And Quinces, Canned, 11 

Baked, 19 
S Baked, with Mince Meat, 7 

Baked Bananas and, 115 

Canned, 12 

New England Baked, 19 

Preserved, 11 

With Ginger, Steamed, 18 
Apricot Ice, 57 

Ice for an Invalid, 57 

Marmalade, S9 

Marmalade, Orange and, 61 

Parfait, 57 

Preserve, Evaporated, 59 

Roll, 56 

Sauce, 55 

Sherbet, Dried, 56 

Souffle, 55 

Sponge, 58 
Apricots, Frozen, S5 

Rice with, 58 

B 

Banana and Date Pudding, 108 
And Pineapple Salad, 115 
And Rhubarb Betty Pudding, 

114 
Butter, 105 
Cake, III 
Compote, 108 
Cream, 104 
Croquettes, no 
Fluff, 106 
Fritters, 105 
Ice, 104 
Ice Cream, 109 
Omelet, 112 
Omelet (sweet), 113 

199 



200 



INDEX 



Pickle, 112 

Pie, io6 

Pudding No. i, lia 

Pudding No. 2, iii 

Pudding No. 3, ill 

Sandwiches, 114 

Souffle, IIS 

Splits, 114 

Sponge, 107 

Tapioca, 109 

With Sausage, 113 
Bananas and Apples, Baked, 115 

Baked, 104 

Fried, 105 

Rognons aux, 109 
Bar-le-Duc Currant Jelly, 177 

Gooseberries and Currant, 166 
Barberry Sauce, 120 
Batter, Fritter, 3 
Birds' Nests, 16 
Black Currant Pudding, 179 
Blackberry and Apple Jam, 142 

Bavarian Cream, 144 

Bread Pudding, 146 

Charlotte, 143 

Cornstarch Pudding, 142 

Custard, 143 

Gelatin, 143 

Jam, 142 

Jelly, 144 

Mousse, 146 

Pie, 14s 

Pudding, 14s 

Pudding, Baked, 145 

Sponge, 146 

Vinegar, 146 
Blanc Mange, Peach, 41 
Blueberries and Dumplings, 
Stowed, 128 

Canned, 132 

Spiced, 130 
Blueberry Bread Pudding, 129 

Custard Pie, 131 

Flapjacks, 132 

Gingerbread, Cream, 128 

Jam, 129 

Muffins No. I, 129 

Muffins No. 2, 129 

Pie with Meringue, 131 

Pudding, 131 



Pudding, Quick, 127 

Puffs, 132 

Shortcake, 130 
Boiled Custard, 68 

Dressing, I 
Bread Pudding, Blackberry, 146 

Blueberry, 129 

Gooseberry, 169 

Orange (single portion), 71 

Rhubarb, 124 
Brown Betty, 16 
Butter, Banana, 105 

Pear, 24 
Buttermilk Lemon Pie, 8s 



Cake, Apple, 3 

Apple Layer, 8 

Apple Sauce, 8 

Banana, iii 
Cake Filling, Orange, 69 
Candied Orange Peel, 63 

Pears, 26 
Canned Apples, 12 

and Pineapple, 11 

and Quinces, 11 
Canned Blueberries, 132 

Cherries, ig6 

Pear Dessert, 27 

Pears, 26 

Pears, Frozen, 26 

Raspberries, 140 
Canning Pineapples, 99 
Cantaloupe Cocktails, 117 
Cherries, Canned, 196 

Frosted, 194 

Pickled, 194 

Preserved, 195 

Spiced, 194 
Cherry and Currant Jam, 194 

Bavarian Cream, 189 

Cordial, 192 

Croquettes, 196 

Cup, Crushed, 191 

Duflf, 195 

Gelatine, 192 

Pie, 190 

Pudding No. i, 193 

Pudding No. 2, 193 



INDEX 



201 



Pudding, Frozen, igo 

Puffs, 192 

Salad, 197 

Sauce, 195 

Shortcake, 190 

Water Ice, i^ 

Wine, 191 
Chutney, Apple, 9 
Citron Preserve No. i, 119 

No. 2, 120 
Citron Melon Preserve, 119 
Cocktail, Peach, 28 

Pineapple, 97 
Cocktails, Cantaloupe, 117 

Grape, 185 

Strawberry, 159 

Watermelon, 117 
Compote, Banana, 108 

Of Pears, 24 
Conserve, Gooseberry, 168 

Peach, 33 

Pear, 24 

Pineapple, Strawberry and 
Cherry, 92 

Plum, 46 

Strawberry and Rhubarb, 163 

Watermelon, 117 
Cordial, Cherry, 192 

Orange Egg, 64 
Corn Meal Peach Pudding, 29 
Cottage Cheese and Cherry Des- 
sert, 197 
Cottage Pudding, Strawberry, 

157 
Crab-apple Jelly, 22 

Jelly, Spiced, 21 

Pie, 21 

Preserves, Grape and, 187 
Cranberries, Frozen, 173 

Spiced, 174 
Cranberry jelly, 175 

Marmalade to Serve with 
Meats, 173 

Pie, 175 

Pudding, 174 

Pudding, Steamed, 175 

Puffs, 17s 
Cranberryade, 174 
Cream Blueberry Gingerbread, 
128 



Crushed Cherry Cup, 191 
Currant Bar-le-Duc, Gooseber- 
ries and, 166 

Croquettes, 179 

Dumplings, Raspberry and, 137 

Ice, 178 

Jam, Cherry and, 194 

Jam, Gooseberry and, 166 

Jelly Bar-le-Duc, 177 

Meringue Pie, 180 

Pie No. I, 177 

Pie No. 2, 177 

Pudding, Black, 179 

Punch, 180 

Relish, 180 

Wine, Red, 181 
Currants, Spiced, 178 
Custard, Baked, with Strawberry 
Sauce, 156 

Blackberry, 143 

Boiled, 68 

Frozen Pineapple, 92 

Orange, 68 

Orange and, ^o 

Peach, 35 

Pineapple, 90 



Damsons, Preserved, 47 
Deep Peach Pie, 42 
Dixie Apple Biscuit, 6 
Dressing, Boiled, i 

French, 60 

Mayonnaise, 10 
Dried Apricot Sherbet, 56 
Dumpling, Baked Apple No. i, 
18 

Baked Apple No. 2, 19 

Peach, 40 
Dumplings, Raspberry and Cur- 
rant, 137 
Dutch Apple Pie, i 



Egg Sauce, 127 

Elder Blossom Wine, 171 



202 



INDEX 



Elderberry Wine, 172 
Elderberry with Apple for Jelly, 

171 
Evaporated Apricot Preserve, 59 



Filling, for Layer Cake, Straw- 
berry, 158 

Lemon Cocoanut Cream, 86 

Orange Cake, 69 
Flapjacks, Blueberry, 132 
French Dressing, 60 
Fried Apples and Onions, 14 

with Sausage, 14 
Fried Bananas, 105 
Fritter Batter, 3 
Fritters, Apple, 2 

Banana, 105 

Peach, 40 

Pineapple No. i, 97 

Pineapple No. 2, ^ 

Strawberry, 150 
Frosted Cherries, 194 
Frosting, Orange, 67 
Frozen Apricots, 55 

Cherry Pudding, igo 

Cranberries, 173 

Orange Pudding, 76 

Peach Roll, 36 

Pineapple Custard, 92 

Pineapple Pudding, 96 

Strawberry Cream, 149 

Strawberry Nectar, 151 

Watermelon, 118 
Fruit Jelly, 103 

Pudding, Louisville, 135 

Salad, 95 



Gingerbread, Cream Blueberry, 

128 
Golden Peach Pudding, 44 
Gooseberries aad Currant Bar- 
le-Duc, 166 
Preserved, 170 
Rhubarb and, 125 
Spiced, 165 
Stewed, 170 



Gooseberry and Currant Jam, 
166 

Bread Pudding, 169 

Conserve, 168 

Cream, 165 

Fool, 167 

Ice, 167 

Meringue, 170 

Pineapple, 166 

Pudding, 168 

Pudding (boiled), 167 

Souffle, 168 

Sponge, 169 
Grape-Crab-apple Preserve, 187 
Grape Catsup, 184 

Cocktails, 185 

Cup, 182 

Fluff, 183 

Jelly, 187 

Jelly (Green), 184 

Jelly (spiced), 185 

Juice, 183 

Juice Frappe, 187 

Juice Jelly, 184 

Marmalade, 186 

Meringue Tart, 183 

Salad, Malaga, 182 

Sherbet, 187 

Sponge Pudding, i86 

Tarts, Malaga, 188 

Wine, i8s 
Grapefruit and Rice, 74 

Gelatine, 79 

Marmalade (from skins), 63 

Pie, 73 
Grapes, Spiced, 182 
Green Grape Jelly, 184 

H 

Hard Sauce, 15 

Hawaiian Pineapple Cream Pie, 

lOI 

Honey Quince Jelly, 54 
Hot Peach Pudding with Cold 
Sauce, 39 

I 

Ice, Banana, 104 
Currant, 178 



INDEX 



203 



Gooseberry, 167 

Lemon, 85 

Pineapple, 97 

Raspberry, 133 

Strawberry, 148 

Strawberry and Macaroon, 162 
Ice Cream, Banana, 109 

Peach, 37 

Rhubarb, 125 
Iced Strawberry Fool, 160 
Individual Peach Pudding, 43 
Irish Moss Lemonade, 87 



Jam, Blackberry, 142 

Blackberry and Apple, 142 

Blueberry, 129 

Cherry and Currant, 194 

Gooseberry and Currant, 166 

Plum, 49 

Rhubarb, 123 

Strawberry, 163 
Jelly, Apple, 13 

Bar-le-Duc Currant, 177 

Blackberry, 144 

Crab-apple, 22 

Cranberry, 175 

Elderberry with Apple for, 171 

Fruit, 103 

Grape, 187 

Grape Juice, 184 

Green Grape, 184 

Honey Quince, 54 

Lemon, 83 

Plum, 48 

Raspberry and Apple, 140 

Russe, IS4 

Spiced Crab-apple, 21 

Spiced Grape, 185 

iWith Banana Cream, Orange, 
78 

With Soft Custard, Pineapple, 
100 



Layer Cake, Apple, 8 
Lemon Butter, 83 
Cheese Pie, 82 



Cheesecakes, 82 

Cocoanut Cream Filling, 86 

Cream, 84 

Cream Sauce, 86 

Ice, 8s 

Jelly, 83 

Pears, 84 

Pie No. I, 81 

Pie No. 2, 81 

Pie No. 3, 81 

Pudding, 82 

Pudding, Steamed, 87 

Raisin Pie, 86 

Sago, 85 

Sauce, 18 
Lemonade, 87 

Irish Moss, 87 
Louisville Fruit Pudding, 135 

M 

Malaga Grape Salad, 182 

Tarts, 188 
Maraschino Sauce, 196 
Marmalade, Apple, 12 

Apricot, 59 

Cranberry, To serve with 
Meats, 173 

Grape, 186 

Grapefruit (from skins), 63 

Orange, 64 

Orange Apricot, 61 

Orange and Grapefruit, 79 

Orange and Honey, 75 

Peach, 35 

Pear and Lemon, z'j 

Pineapple and Orange, 91 

Pineapple and Rhubarb, 90 

Quince, 52 

Rhubarb, 124 

Rhubarb and Orange, 122 

Rhubarb and Pineapple, 122 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 10 
Meringue, Apple, 14 

Peach, 36 
Mince Meat, Baked Apples 

and, 7 
Muffins, Apple Corn Meal, 6 

Blueberry No. i, 129 

Blueberry No. 2, 129 



204 



INDEX 



N 

Nests of Rice with Raspberry 

Jam, 136 
New England Baked Apples, 19 



Omelet, Apple, g 
Orange and Cocoanut, 67 

And Custard, 70 

And Date Salad, 78 

And Grapefruit Marmalade, 
79 

And Honey Marmalade, 75 

And Onion Salad, 60 

Apricot Marmalade, 61 

Bavarian Cream, 76 

Bread Pudding (single por- 
tion), 71 

Cake Filling, 69 

Charlotte, 69 

Cream (Frozen), 67 

Custard, 68 

Custard Pie, 72 

Delight, 68 

Egg Cordial, 64 

Fluff, 70 

Frappe, 64 

Frosting, 67 

Jelly with Banana Cream, 78 

Marmalade, 64 

Marmalade Pudding, 75 

Marmalade, Rhubarb and, 122 

Nut Salad, 73 

Omelet, 61 

Peel, Candied, 63 

Pudding, 71 

Pudding No. i, 65 

Pudding No. 2, 74 

Pudding, Frozen, 76 

Pudding Sauce No. i, 60 

Pudding Sauce No. 2, 65 

Pudding Sauce No. 3, 66 

Pudding, Steamed, 72 

Puffs, 67 

Roly Poly, 65 

Sauce for Croquettes, 77 

Shortcake No. i, 66 



Shortcake No. 2, 77 

Snow Pudding, 62 

Souffle, 66 

SoufHe Pudding, Baked, 69 

Sponge, 78 

Squares, 73 

Water Ice, 62 
Oranges with Cranberry Sauce, 

80 
Orangeade, 71 



Pancakes, Apple, 7 
Parfait, Pineapple, 94 

Peach, 28 
Paula's Baked Apples, 6 
Peach and Marshmallow Cream, 
31 

And Raisin Pudding, 43 

And Raspberry Trifle, 33 

And Tomato Salad, 33 

Bavarian Cream, 41 

Blanc Mange, 41 

Bread Pudding, 45 

Cobbler Pudding, 31 

Cocktail, 28 

Conserve, 33 

Croustades, 31 

Custard, 35 

Dumpling, 40 

Foam, 34 

Fritters, 40 

Ice Cream, 37 

Loaf, 42 

Marmalade, 35 

Melba, 30 

Meringue No. i, 36 

Mold, 30 

Mousse, 37 

Omelet, 38 

Parfait, 28 

Pie, 42 

Pie, Deep, 42 

Pie, New, 29 

Popovers, 28 

Pudding, Corn Meal, 29 

Pudding, Golden, 44 

Pudding, Hot, with Cold 
Sauce, 39 



INDEX 



205 



Pudding, Individual, 43 

Pudding No. i, 30 

Pudding No. 2, 37 

Pudding No. 3, 39 

Pudding, Steamed, 45 

Rice Pudding, 44 

Roll, Frozen, 36 

Roly Poly, 32 

Sauce, 31 

Sponge, 44 

Surprise, 41 

Tapioca, 34 

Turnovers, 36 
Peaches and Cream, 38 

And Raisins, Stewed, 35 

And Rice, 39 

Baked, 33 

Spiced, 34 
Pear and Lemon Marmalade, 27 

Butter, 24 

Chips, 23 

Conserve, 24 

Dessert, Canned, 27 

Preserve, Quince and, 51 

Trifle, 25 
Pears, Baked, 23 

Candied, 26 

Canned, 26 

Compote of, 24 

Frozen, Canned, 26 

Spiced, 23 

With Chocolate Sauce, 25 
Pickled Cherries, 194 
Pie, A New Peach, 29 

Apple, 2 

Apple Cereal, 9 

Banana, 106 

Blackberry, 145 

Blueberry Custard, 131 

Blueberry with Meringue, 131 

Butermilk Lemon, 85 

Cherry, 190 

Crab-apple, 21 

Cranberry, 175 

Currant Meringue, 180 

Currant No. i, 177 

Currant No. 2, 177 

Deep Peach, 42 

Dutch Apple, I 

Grapefruit, 73 



Hawaiian Pineapple Cream, 
1 01 

Lemon Cheese, 82 

Lemon No. i, 81 

Lemon No. 2, 81 

Lemon No. 3, 81 

Lemon Raisin, 86 

Orange Custard, 72 

Peach, 42 

Pineapple, IQ2 

Pineapple Custard, 91 

Plum, 49 

Raspberry Cream, 134 

Rhubarb, 121 

Rhubarb Custard, 121 

Rhubarb Meringue, 126 

Spanish Quince, 50 

Strawberry, 160 
Pineapple and Cocoanut Dessert, 
1 01 

And Orange Marmalade, 91 

And Rhubarb Marmalade, 90 

Baked, 94 

Charlotte, 95 

Cocktail, 97 
Cream, 88 

Cream Pie, Hawaiian, loi 

Custard, 90 

Custard, Frozen, 92 

Custard Pie, 91 

Delight, 100 

Fluff, 90 

Fritters No. i, 97 

Fritters No. 2, 98 

Ice, 97 

Jelly with Soft Custard, lOO 

Marmalade, Rhubarb and, 

122 
Mold, 98 
Mousse, 91 
Parfait, 94 
Pie, 102 
Preserved, 91 
Pudding, Frozen, 96 
Punch, 93 
Salad, 88 

Salad, Banana and, 1 15 
Sherbet, 98 
Shortcake, 89 
Snow, 96 



206 



INDEX 



Sorbet, loi 

Souffle, 93 

Sponge, 96 

Strawberries and, 152 

Strawberry and Cherry Con- 
serve, 92 

Tapioca, 89 

Tarts, 93 

Toast, 99 

Whip, 88 
Pineapples, Canning, 99 
Plum Charlotte, 46 

Conserve, 46 

Jam, 49 

Jelly, 48 

Pie, 49 
Plums in Batter, 47 

in Rice Border, 46 

Spiced, 48' 

Sweet Pickled, 49 
Preserve, Citron Melon, 119 

Citron No. I, 119 

Citron No. 2, 120 

Grape Crab-apple, 187 

Quince, 52 

Quince and Pear, 51 

Watermelon, 118 
Preserved Apples, 11 

Cherries, 19S 

Damsons, 47 

Evaporated Apricot, 59 

Gooseberries, 165 

Pineapple, 91 

Quinces, 53 

Strawberries, 148 
Preserves, Quince and Sweet 
Apple, S3 

Raspberry, 140 
Pudding, Apple Batter, 15 

Apple Indian, 15 

Apple Rice, 7 

Apple and Suet, 3 

Baked Blackberry, 145 

Baked Orange Souffle, 69 

Banana No. i, no 

Banana No. 2, in 

Banana No. 3, m 

Banana and Rhubarb Betty, 
114 

Blackberry, 145 



Blackberry Bread, 146 
Blackberry Cornstarch, 142 
Black Currant, 179 
Blueberry, 131 
Blueberry Bread, 129 
Brown Betty, 16 
Cherry No. i, 193 
Cherry No. 2, 193 
Corn Meal Peach, 29 
Cranberry, 174 
Frozen Cherry, 190 
Frozen Orange, 76 
Frozen Pineapple, 96 
Golden Peach, 44 
Grape Sponge, 186 
Gooseberry, 168 
Gooseberry (boiled), 167 
Gooseberry Bread, 169 
Grape Sponge, 186 
Hot Peach, with Cold Sauce, 

39 
Individual Peach, 43 
Louisville Fruit, 135 
Lemon, 82 
Lemon, Steamed, 87 
Orange, 71 

Orange Marmalade, 75 
Orange No. i, 65 
Orange No. 2, 74 
Orange Snow, 62 
Peach Bread, 45 
Peach Cobbler, 31 
Peach No. i, 30 
Peach No. 2, 37 
Peach No. 3, 39 
Peach and Raisin, 43 
Peach Rice, 44 
Quick Blueberry, 127 
Raspberry No. I, 139 
Raspberry No. 2, 139 
Rhubarb Bread, 124 
Steamed Cranberry, 173 
Steamed Lemon, 87 
Steamed Orange, 72 
Steamed Peach, 45 
Strawberry, 154 
Strawberry Cottage, 157 
Strawberry Rice, 158 
Pudding Sauce, Orange No. I, 
60 



INDEX 



207 



Orange No. 2, 65 
Orange No. 3, 66 
Punch, Currant, 180 
Pineapple, 93 



Q 

Quick Blueberry Pudding, 127 
Quince and Pear Preserve, 51 

And Sweet Apple Preserves, 
S3 

Custards, 50 

Honey, 51 

Jelly, Honey, 54 

Marmalade, 52 

Pie, Spanish, 50 

Preserve, 52 
Quinces, Baked, 51 

Preserved, 53 



R 

Raspberries, Canned, 140 
Raspberry and Apple Jelly, 
140 

And Currant Dumplings, 137 

Bar-le-Duc, 13S 

Bombe Glace, 134 

Cream Pie, 134 

Ice, 133 

Jam, Nests of Rice with, 136 

Jelly FluflF, 138 

Foam, 139 

Nectar, 138 

Parfait, 136 

Preserves, 140 

Pudding No. i, 139 

Pudding No. 2, 139 

Sherbet, 138 

Sherbet No. 2, 139 

Shrub, 141 

SoufBe, 133 

Sponge, 137 

Syrup, 134 

Tapioca, 133 

Trifle, Peach and, 33 

Turnovers, 136 

Vinegar, 141 



Red Currant Wine, 181 
Rhubarb and Figs, 124 

And Gooseberries, 125 

And Orange Marmalade, 122 

And Pineapple Marmalade, 
122 

Baked with Figs, 123 

Betty Pudding, Banana and, 
114 

Bread Pudding, 124 

Conserve, Strawberry and, 
163 

Custard Pie, 121 

Ice Cream, 12s 

Jam, 123 

Marmalade, 124 

Meringue Pie, 126 

Pie, 121 

Stewed, 121 

Whip, 122 
Rice, Grapefruit and, 74 

with Apricots, 58 
Rognons aux Bananas, 109 
Roly Poly, Orange, 65 

Peach, 32 



Salad, Apple, i 
Apple and Date, 7 
Banana and Pineapple, 115 
Canned Pear and Orange, 

Cherry, 197 

Fruit, 95 

Malaga Grape, 182 

Orange Nut, 73 

Orange and Date, 78 

Orange and Onion, 60 

Peach and Tomato, 33 

Pineapple, 88 

Strawberry No. i, 152 

Strawberry No. 2, 161 

Waldorf, ID 
Sandwich Filling, Apple, 5 
Sandwiches, Banana, 114 
Sauce, Apricot, 55 

Barberry, 120 

Cherry, 195 



208 



INDEX 



Egg, 127 

Hard, 15 

Lemon, 18 

Lemon Cream, 86 

Maraschino, 196 

Orange, for Croquettes, ^^ 

Orange Pudding No. i, 60 

Orange Pudding No. 2, 65 

Orange Pudding No. 3, 66 

Peach, 31 

Spiced Lemon, 83 

Strawberry, 153 

Vanilla, 20 
Scalloped Apple, 17 
Sherbet, Dried Apricot, 56 

Grape, 187 

Pineapple, 98 

Raspberry No. i, 138 

Raspberry No. 2, 139 

Strawberry, 161 
Shortcake, Apple Sauce, 4 

Blueberry, 130 

Cherry, 190 

Orange No. i, 66 

Orange No. 2, 77 

Pineapple, 89 

Strawberry, 164 
Sorbet, Pineapple, loi 

Strawberry, 155 
Spanish Quince Pie, SO 
Spiced Blueberries, 130 

Cherries, 194 

Crab-apple Jelly, 21 

Cranberries, 174 

Currants, 178 

Gooseberries, 165 

Grape Jelly, 185 

Grapes, 182 

Lemon Sauce, 83 

Peaches, 34 

Pears, 23 

Plums, 48 
Steamed Apples with Ginger, 
18 

Cranberry Pudding, 175 

Lemon Pudding, 87 

Orange Pudding, 72 

Peach Pudding, 45 
Stewe'd Apples and Raisins, 
14 



Blueberries and Dumplings, 

128 
Gooseberries, 170 
Peaches and Raisins, 35 
Rhubarb, 121 
Strawberry and Bonny Clabber, 

IS7 
And Macaroon Ice, 162 
And Rhubarb Conserve, 163 
Bavarian Cream, 156 
Cocktails, 159 
Cottage Pudding, 157 
Cream, Frozen, 149 
Filling for Layer Cake, 158 
Fluff No. I, 149 
Fluff No. 2, 162 
Fool, Iced, 160 
Fritters, 150 
Ice, 148 
Jam, 163 
Junket, 149 
Meringue, 161 
Mousse, 163 
Nectar, Frozen, IS I 
Nests, 153 
Omelet, 159 
Pie, 160 
Pudding, 154 
Rice Pudding, 158 
Roll, ISO 
Salad No. I, 152 
Salad No. 2, 161 
Sauce, IS3 
Sauce, Baked Custard -with, 

iS6 
Sherbet, 161 
Shortcake, 164 
Sorbet, 155 
Souffle, 148 
Sponge, 159 
Syrup, IS5 
Tapioca, 152 
Trifle, 151 
.Whip, 164 
Strawberryade, 154 
Strawberries a la Fran^aise, 160 
And Pineapple, 152 
Preserved, 148 
Preserved (without cooking), 

160 



INDEX 



209 



Sweet Pickled Plums, 49 
Watermelon Rind, 117 

Sweet Potato Scallop, Apple 
and, s 

Syrup, Raspberry, 134 
Strawberry, 155 



Tapioca, Apple, 13 

Banana, 109 

Peach, 34 

Pineapple, 89 

Raspberry, 133 

Strawberry, 152 
Tart, Grape Meringue, 183 
Tarts, Malaga Grape, 188 

Pineapple, 93 
Toast, Apple, 9 

Pineapple, 99 



Vanilla Sauce, 20 
Vinegar, Blackberry, 147 
Raspberry, 141 

W 

Waldorf Salad, 10 
Water Ice, Cherry, 189 

Orange, 62 
Watermelon Cocktails, 117 

Conserve, 117 

Frozen, 118 

Preserve, 118 

Rind, Sweet Pickled, 117 
Wine, Cherry, 191 

Elder Blossom, 171 

Elderberry, 172 

Grape, 185 

Red Currant, 181 



