
••^l^'^f 



riass ) X 7 • 
BooL/S_3_51 

Cop}f!ghtN^_ 

COKRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



Twentieth Century' "^"^^ 

COOK BOOK 

AND 

HOME CANDY 
MAKING 

INDEXED 



TWENTIETH CENTURY 

COOK BOOK 



An Up-to-Date and Skillful 

Preparation on the Art 

of Cooking 



AND 

Modem Candy Making Simplified 

ALSO 

The Process of Dr3ang Fruits and Vegetables, 

and 

Butchering Time Recipes 



Compiled and Published by 

The Geographical Publishing Co. 

621 Plymouth Court 

CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 






Copyright, 1921, by 
The Geographical Publishing Co., Chicago, Ills. 



MAY l3IS2i 
'g)CI.A617105 



INTRODUCTION 

The cook books now on the market are many and 
various, but few, if any, are plain, practical, thorough, 
and complete enough for all-around use and everyday 
reference in farm homes — in families where plain 
tastes and limited means forbid extravagant or fancy 
culinary indulgences and the accompanying unneces- 
sary expenditure of time and labor. 

This book is intended especially and primarily for 
farm cooks, though it will be found equally useful and 
helpful in the city kitchen where economy is an object. 
It is, of course, understood that country or farm house- 
keepers have many advantages their town sisters lack, 
such as fresh fruits, vegetables, poultry, eggs, milk, 
cream and butter, which naturally cannot always be 
had in city markets, where even inferior grades of 
produce are high priced. In the average farm kitchen 
such things are considered necessities, not luxuries, and 
are accepted quite as a matter of course. 

It is hoped that this cook book will induce house- 
wives to try an occasional change in their usual daily 
bill of fare. The introduction of some variety will 
make the cook's work less monotonous and is likely to 
be appreciated by other members of the family as well. 

The editors of this cook book beg the indulgence of 
all who may become possessed of a copy. We do not 
claim to "know it all," and in this instance have con- 
fined ourselves chiefly to the task of picking out from 
thousands of good recipes such as seemed the best and 
most deserving of finding a place in this volume. 

The G. P. Co. 




IV 



ARRANGING THE TABLE 

(See Illustration on Opposite Page) 

The first requisite for a well-ordered table is snowy, fine, 
damask linen. The napkins and table cloth should be of 
good size and the dishes should shine with brightness. Un- 
derneath the cloth, padding should be laid. A table, when 
properly set, is a picture of loveliness — cut glass, silver, 
dainty dishes, with a background of white, appeal to the 
eye of the artist, and why not to the guest, giving zest to 
the viands that are spread ? 

As to the manner of "setting" the table, there are some 
differences of opinion and greater differences of customs. 
At the strictest of houses, there are as many knives, forks 
and spoons placed at the different places as there are courses 
to be served. The knives lie on the right of the plate, and 
and a row of forks on the left ; the oyster fork on the out- 
side. There are usually four forks and three knives ; a steel 
knife for meat being one of them. The soup spoon lies next 
to the napkin. The napkin (which, by the way, should 
never be starched) is placed directly in front of each guest. 
Individual salt and pepper bottles are at hand, and if butter 
is needed, individual butter plates are called into use. A 
goblet is set at every plate. 

A certain scheme of color is chosen, and everything on 
the table hai-monizes with it. The flowers adorning the 
table are delicately scented and pleasant to all. There are 
many who dislike the heavily scented tube roses and 
syringas, but roses, lilies, carnations and lilacs are always 
agreeable. The dining room is carpeted, or if the floor is 
hardwood, large rugs are used to deaden the footsteps. 

In lighting the table a large single candelabrum or indi- 
vidual electric stands are the most common method of 
illumination. Wax candles are sometimes in favor, as they 
afford good opportunity for decorative effects and make 
pretty shadows. The shades to the candles match in color 
the other decorations. 




VI 



LUNCHEONS 

(See Illustration on Opposite Page) 

A modern luncheon is a very convenient meal, per- 
mitting of an irregular number, and a great variety of 
displays. It can be made expensive or not, as occasion 
demands. Many luncheons, like many dinners, are apt 
to be over-sumptuous. The ideal luncheon is quite a 
simple affair. 

Roasts and joints are never served but entrees and 
cold dishes instead. Table cloths are still frequently 
used, but the newer idea is the use of highly polished 
tables. These, when decorated with doilies and flowers, 
give a peculiarly antique effect, far surpassing in charm 
even the richest damask. At the embroidery shops 
many centerpieces and doilies for these occasions are 
being shown. A pretty set, intended for "the salad" 
course, consists of a round mat for the bowl, with 
smaller ones for the plates. The patterns are mostly 
wreaths of brier roses and vines. 

A pleasant innovation in summer, and one especially 
adapted to spacious homes, is to serve the luncheon on 
the piazzas or in shaded spots around the yard. This 
agreeable change brings about a sociability that de- 
lights the reserved and pleases even the* most fas- 
tidious. 



COMMON WAYS OF COOKING FOOD 

Baking is cooking in confined heat in the oven. Examples: Bread, 
cake, meat. This method when applied to meat is commonly called 
roasting. Before baking, see that the oven is clean and heated to 
the desired temperature. 

Boiling is cooking by immersion in water at 212° F. Examples: 
Potatoes, cabbage, macaroni. 

Braising is a combination of stewing on the top of the range, and 
baking in the oven, with or without vegetables. Examples: Tough 
meats, fowl, whole liver. 

Broiling or Grilling is cooking over or under direct heat, as over glow- 
ing coals or under a gas flame. Examples: Steak, chops. 

Fricasseeing is commonly a combination of stewing and sauteing. 
Examples : Fowl, f orequarter of lamb or veal. 

Frying is cooking by immersion in hot deep fat. Examples: Dough- 
nuts, croquettes. 

Pan-baking or Pan-broiling is cooking in a lightly greased or ungreased 
hot frying pan or griddle. Examples: Steak, English muffins, 
griddle cakes. 

Pot Roasting is cooking in an iron kettle or earthen pot in a small 
amount of water, after meat has been quickly browned in a small 
amount of fat in the frying pan or kettle. Cook slowly until very 
tender, with or without vegetables. 

Roasting is cooking before an open fire. This method is seldom used 
in small households, although the baking of meats is commonly 
called roasting. 

Sauteing is cooking in a small amount of fat in a shallow pan on top 
of range. Examples : Sliced fish, meat, potatoes, eggs. 

Simmering is cooking in liquid at 185° F. The bubbles should always 
be below the surface. Examples: Ham, corned beef, soups. 

Steaming. Dry Steaming is cooking by heat or steam, as in double 
boiler or tin, over or surrounded by boiling water. Examples: Rice, 
brown bread. 

Moist Steaming is cooking by direct contact with steam, as in a steamer 
or colander, over boiling water, closely covered. Examples: Fowl, 
puddings, dumplings. 

Stewing is cooking slowly in a small amount of water (about 160° F.) 
until food is very tender. Examples: Beef, lamb, vegetables. 



VIII 



CONTENTS 

Page 

Arrangement of the Dinner Table ^ 

Arrangement of the Luncheon Table -uttt 

Common Ways of Cooking Food \lll 

Appetizers and Relishes ^ 

Beverages • ^ 

Soups Without Meat 6 . 

Soups and Stews with Meat or Fish 9 

Chowders 1^ 

Fish 15 

Salt and Smoked Fish 16 

Meats 18 

Warmed-Over Meats 26 

Vegetables 28 

Sauces and Stuffings for Fish and Meats. . • 35 

Poultry • . • • 39 

Eggs 43 

Cheese and Nuts 47 

Cereals — Macaroni and Rice 49 

Croquettes and Fritters 52 

Salads and Salad Dressings 56 

Yeast Breads — Muffins and Rolls 62 

Baking Powder Breads, Muffins and Biscuits 65 

Popovers and Puffs Without Baking Powder or Yeast 71 

Shortcakes and Roulettes 72 

Sandv/iches and Toasts 73 

Griddle Cakes, Waffies and Sirups 77 

Cakes and Cookies 79 

Icings and Fillings 84 

Hot Desserts 87 

Cold Desserts 90 

Frozen Desserts 93 

Sauces for Desserts 96 

Pastries 98 

Fruits — Cooked and Uncooked 105 

Candies 109 

Candies With Cooked Fondant, Chocolates, Nuts, Fruits 110 

Candies With Cooked Fondant — Miscellaneous Sweetmeats 113 

Bonbons, Confections and Dipped Candies 116 

Homemade Cough Candies 119 

Unpulled Candies: Butterscotch and Caramels 121 

Unpulled Candies: Cocoanut, Cream, and Maple Candies 124 

Unpulled Candies: Fudges and Simple Nut Candies 127 

Unpulled Candies: Taffy, Pop Com and Candy Drops 131 

Unpulled Candies: Nut and Fruit Candies and Marshmallows 133 

Pulled Candies: Molasses, Sugar and Cream Candies 136 

Candies : Miscellaneous 140 

Drying Fruits and Vegetables 142 

Butchering Time Recipes 146 

Table of Weights and Measures 161 

Time Table for Cooking — Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Frying 162 

Temperature Table 164 

Index 165 

IX. 



SPECIAL NOTICE 

All ingredients in these recipes should be measured level, and the 
standard teaspoon, tablespoon, and half-pint measuring cup should 
be used. 

Unless otherwise stated, one apple, onion, orange, etc., means one 
of medium size. 

Sift flour before measuring, and fill cup lightly. Use pastry flour, 
unless otherwise directed, for thickening soups and sauces, and in all 
recipes where baking powder is used; use bread flour in all recipes 
where yeast is used. 

The majority of these recipes are planned to serve four persons; 
those for chowders and other dishes which form the substantial part 
of the meal are sufficient for second helpings; those for cakes, muflins, 
and other breads are large enough to be served more than once. 



APPETIZERS AND RELISHES 

Cocktail Sauce 

Ingredients — % cup tomato ketchup, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
bottled horseradish, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons 
vinegar and dash of cayenne. 

Preparation — Mix, and serve in four small glasses or lemon shells, 
with six small clams or oysters in each. Shrimps, prawns, or lobster 
may be used instead of clams or oysters. 

Asheville Canapes 

Peel and cut small tomatoes in quarter-inch slices; cut thin rounds 
of bread the same size as tomatoes; toast bread, spread with Mustard 
Butter, or salad dressing, and cover with a slice of tomato; season 
lightly with salt and pepper, and cover with thin slices of cooked 
chicken livers. Garnish with parsley. 

Club Canapes 

Mix devilled ham with a little grated cheese; spread on thin rounds 
of brown bread, and mark into quarters with finely chopped pickle. 
Chop fine the white of a hard-cooked egg, and cover two opposite 
quarters; press the yolk through a sieve, and cover the remaining 
quarters. 

Crab Meat Canapes 

Ingredients — 1 cup crab meat, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, V4, 
teaspoon paprika, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, % tea- 
spoon mustard, V2 teaspoon horseradish. 

Preparation — Chop crab meat, mix well with seasonings, and spread 
on thin rounds of untoasted brown bread. Garnish with small cube 
of lemon. 

Mock Crab Canapes 

Ingredients — 1 cup canned corn, Vs teaspoon paprika, % teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon anchovy paste, 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

Preparation — Use one cup of corn which has been drained from 
its juice; put through food chopper, using the finest cutter; add sea- 
sonings and cheese, and spread on small rounds of toast. Garnish 
with small pickles sliced lengthwise. 

Gloucester Canapes 

Cook a small haddock roe in boiling salted water for fifteen min- 
utes, remove skin, mash, add a tablespoon of butter, half a teaspoon 
of anchovy paste, one-fourth teaspoon of paprika, and enough cream 
to moisten; add salt if necessary. Mound on small rounds of toast, 
and garnish with sliced pickles and parsley. 

Tuna Canapes 

Ingredients — 1 cup tuna fish, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon 
tomato ketchup, % tablespoon olive oil, Vz teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon 
paprika. 

Preparation — Chop fish, add seasonings, and spread on small rounds 
of lightly toasted bread. Garnish with sliced pimolas. 



APPETIZERS AND RELISHES 



Celery Relish 

Cut large white stalks of celery in two-inch lengths, fill with cream 
cheese which has been seasoned with salt, pepper, and Worcester- 
shire sauce. Garnish with a small piece of celery top. 

Cheese and Apple Rings 

Ingredients — 1 large tart apple, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 
% cup soft cheese cut fine, dash of cayenne, % teaspoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons cream. 

Preparation — Pare and core apples, and cut in one-third-inch slices; 
mix cheese with seasonings and cream, beat to a paste, and spread or 
force through a rose tube on apple rings. Dust with paprika. 

Spanish Cheese 

Cook together one and a half cups of soft or grated cheese with 
one-fourth cup of chili sauce until the cheese is melted. Serve imme- 
diately on toasted crackers or rounds of toast, as an appetizer or 
savory. 

Cantaloupe Cocktail 

Ingredients — 2 cups cantaloupe, juice of y2 lemon, % cup preserved 
ginger, 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Preparation — Cut melon in small cubes, or in balls (using a potato 
cutter). Add chopped ginger, lemon juice, and sugar, and serve very 
cold. 

Fruit Cocktail 

Ingredients — 2 tart apples, 2 oranges, 1 large banana, 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice, 4 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Preparation — Cut apples and bananas in small cubes; remove pith 
and seeds from oranges, cut pulp in small pieces, and add with juice 
to apples and bananas; add lemon juice and sugar, place in a shallow 
dish, and put directly on ice for ten minutes to chill; serve in glasses 
and garnish with a Preserved Cranberry, or a spoonful of Mock Bar- 
le-Duc. Peeled Tokay or Malaga grapes and a little grated pineapple 
may be added to advantage. 

Winter Chili Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 can tomatoes, 1 teaspoon paprika, 2 onions finely 
chopped, Vs teaspoon cayenne, Vs cup brown sugar, % teaspoon cin- 
namon, 1% teaspoons salt, ^A teaspoon clove, Vs cup vinegar. 

Preparation — Mix, and simmer about half an hour or until thick. 

Piccalilli 

Ingredients — 3 quarts green tomatoes, 1 quart sugar, 3 quarts ripe 
tomatoes, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 red peppers, Vz teaspoon clove, 3 
onions, 4 tablespoons white mustard seed, Vz cup salt, 2 quarts 
vinegar. 

Preparation — Put vegetables through the food chopper, using coarse 
cutter; sprinkle with salt, let stand over night, and drain; add other 
ingredients, and cook about forty-five minutes. 



APPETIZERS AND RELISHES 



Table Sauce 

Ingredients — 12 ripe tomatoes, 1 teaspoon paprika, 1 onion, i/4 tea- 
spoon pepper, 3 green peppers, 1 cup vinegar, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
1 teaspoon ground clove, 1% tablespoons salt, 1 teaspoon ground 
cinnamon, 2 teaspoons mustard. 

Preparation — Wipe tomatoes, cut in halves, and put in a clean, 
smooth preserving kettle; add onion and peppers sliced, and season- 
ings; simmer two hours, and press through a sieve; return to kettle, 
simmer one hour, and seal in jars or bottles; when cool, dip tops in 
paraffin. This may be used in place of ready-made sauce. 

Tomato Ketchup 

Ingredients — 1 peck ripe tomatoes, Vz cup whole mixed spices, 3 
onions, 1 clove of garlic, % cup salt, % cup dry mustard, 2 teaspoons 
cayenne, 1 quart vinegar, 2 tablespoons paprika, 1 cup brown sugar. 

Preparation — Wipe tomatoes, cut in halves, and put in a smooth, 
clean preserving kettle; add onions sliced, cook slowly for one hour, 
and press through a sieve; add salt, cayenne, and paprika; tie mixed 
spices, garlic, and mustard in double cheesecloth, add to tomatoes, 
and cook rapidly until mixture begins to thicken; boil vinegar and 
sugar together while tomatoes are cooking; add them to strained 
tomato; cook until ketchup is thick, or until water will not separate 
from it when tried on a plate. Remove spice bag, seal in sterilized 
jars or bottles, and when cool dip tops in melted paraffin. 

Small Cucumber Pickles (Gherkins) 

Wash thoroughly, count, and for every hundred cucumbers allow 
one cup of salt. Cover with boiling water. Let stand twenty-four 
hours; then drain. Fill quart preserve jars with cucumbers, then add 
two tablespoons of mixed whole spices, a piece of alum the size of 
a pea, and boiling vinegar to fill the jar. Seal, and let stand a week 
before using. The boiling water should be measured, as an equal 
amount of vinegar will be needed. 

Pepper Hash 

Ingredients — 6 green peppers, 1 quart vinegar, 6 red peppers, 1 cup 
brown sugar, 6 onions, 2 tablespoons salt, 1 small white cabbage, 2 
tablespoons mustard seed. 

Preparation — Remove seeds from peppers and chop fine with the 
onion and cabbage. Put in cheesecloth, scald with boiling water, and 
squeeze dry; heat vinegar, sugar, salt, and mustard seed, add vege- 
tables, and bring to the boiling point. When cool, put in a stone 
crock or small jars. 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds 

Into one quart of cider vinegar put three tablespoons salt and five 
or six slices of horseradish root. Pour into a jar and cover closely. 
Add the seeds as they ripen. Use in salads, sauces, or for garnishing 
as a substitute for capers. 



BEVERAGES 



BEVERAGES 

Coflfee, Egg, and Milk 

Ingredients — 2 eggs, 1^/^ teaspoons instantaneous coflPee, 2% table- 
spoons sugar, few grains salt, 3 cups milk. 

Preparation — Beat the eggs until light; add the other ingredients, 
and strain into glasses. Serve very cold. (This recipe fills four 
tumblers.) 

Grape Juice (Unfermented) 

Pick over and wash grapes, barely cover with water, and cook until 
soft and white; drain through cheesecloth, and to each quart of juice 
add one cup each of water and sugar; bring to boiling point, skim, 
bottle, and cork tightly. When cold, dip corks into melted paraffin. 

Grape Eggnog 

Ingredients — 1 egg, 1 teaspoon powdered sugar, % cup grape juice, 
%: cup milk, nutmeg. 

Preparation — Beat egg until very light, add grape juice and sugar, 
and beat again, add milk, beat well, pour into a glass, and dust with 
nutmeg. 

Ginger Punch 

Ingredients — IVi cups sugar, 2 teaspoons Jamaica ginger, 1 quart 
boiling water, Y2 cup orange juice, grated rind 1 lemon, % cup lemon 
juice. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water with the lemon rind for ten 
minutes; when cool, add ginger and fruit juice, and strain over cracked 
ice. 

Ginger Ale Punch 

Ingredients — % cup mint leaves, 1 cup boiling water, 1% cups sugar, 

2 pints ginger ale, juice of 3 lemons, 1 pint grape juice. 
Preparation — Pour boiling water over mint leaves, sugar, and grated 

rind of one lemon, and let stand until cool; strain into a punch bowl 
containing ice, add ginger ale, grape juice, and strained lemon juice; 
garnish with sprigs of mint. 

Mint Julep (Ginger Ale) 

Ingredients — % cup sugar, juice of 3 lemons, 1 cup water, 4 sprigs 
mint, 1 pint ginger ale. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water ten minutes, and cool; add 
strained lemon juice, mint leaves bruised, and ginger ale; half fill 
glasses with crushed ice, and julep, and garnish with a sprig of mint. 

Mint Lemonade 

Ingredients — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup mint leaves, 6 cups water, juice of 

3 lemons. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water twenty minutes; add mint, and 
let stand until cold; add lemon juice, and strain into glasses half 
filled with cracked ice. Garnish vdth sprigs of mint. 



BEVERAGES 



Tea 

Tea should be made from freshly drawn, freshly boiled water, 
poured over the dry tea, which has been put into a clean, scalded tea- 
pot. Cover with a cozy or stand on back of range for three or four 
minutes. Allow from a half to a full teaspoon of tea to each cup, 
according to the variety used. The finer varieties made from the 
first pickings require less than the coarser kinds. Be sure that tea 
does not boil. Serve with sugar, cream, lemon, cloves, mints, ginger, 
or bits of candied fruit. 

Iced Tea 

Fill a large glass two-thirds full with cracked ice, add two thin 
slices of lemon with seeds removed, two teaspoons of powdered sugar, 
and fill with freshly-made hot tea. One or two mint leaves may be 
added. 

Filtered Coffee 

Ingredients — Vz cup pulverized coffee, 4 cups boiling water. 

Preparation — Put coffee into bag or filter, add boiling water gradu- 
ally; pour through a second time, or even a third time if liked strong. 
Do not boil. Serve with hot milk and cream. Wash coffee pot and 
bag thoroughly, and dry in the sun if possible; renew bag often. 

After-Dinner Coffee 

Ingredients — % cup pulverized coffee, 2 cups boiling water. 
Preparation — Put coffee into a filter coffee pot, add boiling water, 
and filter three times. Serve very hot. 

Cafe Au Lait 

~ To recipe for After-dinner Coffee add one and a half cups of hot 
milk. 

Cocoa 

Ingredients — 4 teaspoons cocoa, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 2 cups boiling water, 2 cups hot milk. 

Preparation — Mix cocoa, sugar, salt, and boiling water, and boil five 
minutes; add hot milk, and beat with egg beater until frothy. 

Chocolate 

Ingredients — 1^/^ squares chocolate, Vs teaspoon salt, V4, cup sugar, 
2 cups boiling water, 2 cups hot milk. 

Preparation — Melt chocolate in a saucepan over hot water; add 
sugar, salt, and boiling water; stir well, and boil five minutes; add 
hot milk, and beat with egg beater until frothy. Evaporated milk 
makes excellent chocolate or cocoa. For marshmallow chocolate put 
two marshmallows in each cup and pour hot chocolate over them. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 

Asparagus Soup 

When fresh asparH'":us is served as a vegetable, cock the tough ends 
in the same water, whicr. should be lightly salted. Press through a 
sieve, add the water, are^' for each three cups add one-half teaspoon 
of onion juice and one cap of hot milk. Thicl'^z with one tablespoon 
of butter and two tablespoons oi flour blendod. '..ogether. Add pepper, 
and salt if necessary. 

Puree of Black Beans 

In:jredients — 1 cvp black beans, Vz teaspoon paprika, 1 quart cold 
water, V4. teaspoon mustard, 1 slice bacon, 1 tablespoon bacon fat, 
V2 onion, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 hard-cooked egg, lemon 
slices. 

Preparation — Soak beans over night in cold water; drain; add one 
quart of water, bacon and onion, and cook three hours or until beans 
are soft, replacing water which cooks away; press through a sieve; 
add seasonings, and thicken with bacon fat and flour blended together. 
Serve with a thin slice of egg and lemon in each plate. Corned beef 
stock is an excellent substitute for water, but if it is used, salt should 
be omitted. 

Baked Bean Soup 

Ingredients — 2 cups cold baked beans, 1 tablespoon butter, 1^ cups 
tomatoes, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 slices onion, V2 teaspoon salt, 4 cups 
cold water, Vs teaspoon fat, V2 bay leaf, 2 tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Simmer beans, tomatoes, onion, and water for half 
an hour, and press through a sieve; thicken with butter and flour 
blended together; add seasonings, and serve with fried croutons. 

Puree of Red Kidney Beans 

Follow recipe for Puree of Black Beans, using red kidney beans in 
place of black beans. 

Dried Lima Bean Soup 

Ingredients — 1 cup lima beans, 1 cup milk, 6 cups cold water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, V2 onion sliced, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, V2 carrot 
sliced, 1 tablespoon bacon fat, 2 tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Soak beans over night; drain; add cold water, onion, 
carrot, and bay leaf, and simmer an hour and a half or until beans 
are soft; press through a sieve, add milk and seasonings, and thicken 
with bacon fat and flour blended together. Serve with croutons. 

Cauliflower Soup 

To three cups of the water in which cauliflower has been cooked add 
one-half teaspoon of onion juice and one cup of hot milk. Thicken 
with one tablespoon of butter and two tablespoons of flour blended 
together. Season with cayenne, and salt if necessary. Add a few 
left-over bits of cauliflower, and serve with croutons or crisp crackers. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 



Cream of Celery Soup 

Ingredients — 1 cup celery tops, l^/^ teaspoons salt, % cup chopped 
celery, % teaspoon pepper, 2 slices onion, 3^/^ cups boiling water, i/4 
cup rice, 1% cups hot milk, V2 tablespoon butter. 

Preparation — Cook celery, onion, rice, seasonings, and boiling water 
for half an hour; press through a sieve; add hot milk and butter, and 
serve with crisp crackers. 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Ingredients — 1 can com, 1 teaspoon salt, V2 onion, % teaspoon 
paprika, 2 cups boiling water, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 cups hot milk, 2 
tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Chop com and onion, add water, and simmer twenty 
minutes; press through a sieve, forcing through all the com possible; 
add milk and seasonings, and thicken with butter and flour blended 
together. 

Cheese Soup 

Ingredients — 2 cups milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 cups boiling water, 
V2 cup grated cheese, 1 onion sliced, 1 egg well beaten, V2 bay leaf, 

1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, dash of cayenne. 

Prep ration — Scald milk, water, onion, and bay leaf twenty min- 
utes; sKim out onion and bay leaf, thicken milk with butter and flour 
cooked together; add cheese, egg, and seasonings, and stir until cheese 
melts. 

Fruit Soup 

Ingredients — 3 pears, juice of Vz lemon, 3 apples, Vs teaspoon cin- 
namon, 4 cups boiling water, 3 tablespoons honey or sugar, 1 table- 
spoon granulated tapioca. 

Preparation — Chop fruit, add water, cook until tender, and press 
through a sieve; add tapioca, and cook until clear; add lemon juice, 
cinnamon, and honey. Serve hot or cold with toast sticks. 

Oatmeal Soup 

Ingredients — % cup cooked oatmeal, 2 cups hot milk, % onion 
sliced, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 cloves, % teaspoon celery salt, % bay leaf, 
% teaspoon pepper, 2 cups boiling water, V2 tablespoon butter. 

Preparation — Cook oatmeal, onion, cloves, and bay leaf in bailing 
water for twenty minutes, and press through a sieve; add milk, 5ea- 
sonings, and butter, and serve with croutons. 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Ingredients — 1 can peas, IV^ teaspoons salt, 1 slice onion, Vs tea- 
spoon pepper, bit of bay leaf, 2 cups boiling water, sprig of parsley, 

2 cups hot milk 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour. 

Preparation — Rinse the peas with cold water, and reserve one-fourth 
cup: simmer the rem; j der with seasonings and hot water for twenty 
min'ites, rrd preSii throu>^h a sieve; thicken the milk with butter and 
flor.j blended together, ar.d add to peas. Add the whole peas just 
belwi.e serving. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 



Puree of Split Peas 

Ingredients — V2 cup split peas, 1 cup hot milk, 4 cups water or ham 
stock, Vs teaspoon pepper, 2 slices onion, 1 tablespoon bacon fat, 1 
tablespoon flour. 

Preparation — Soak peas over night in cold water, and drain; add 
water or stock, and onion, and simmer about three hours or until 
peas are soft; press through a sieve; add milk and pepper, and thicken 
with bacon fat and flour blended together. Serve with croutons. If 
water is used in place of stock, add two slices of bacon and one and 
a quarter teaspoons of salt. 

Rice and Tomato Soup 

Ingredients — 1 can tomatoes, 1 tablespoon sugar, % onion, 2 cups 
boiling water, V2 bay leaf, % teaspoon soda, 3 cloves, 2 tablespoons 
bacon fat, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons flour, Vi teaspoon paprika, 
Vz cup cooked rice. 

Preparation — Simmer tomatoes, seasonings, and water half an hour; 
press through a sieve, and add soda; melt bacon fat, and cook with 
flour until brown; add to soup, and stir until smooth; add rice, and 
serve. 

Tomato Bisque 

Ingredients — 2 cups tomatoes, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 slice onion, 1% 
teaspoons salt, bit of bay leaf, % teaspoon pepper, 2 cloves, 3 cups 
hot milk, 1 cup boiling water, 2 tablespoons butter, i/4 teaspoon soda, 
3 tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Simmer tomatoes, onion, bay leaf, cloves, and water 
for twenty minutes, and press through a sieve; add soda, sugar, salt, 
and pepper; thicken milk with butter and flour blended together, and 
add to tomato just before serving. Serve with croutons. 

Windsor Soup 

Ingredients — 2 potatoes, 1% cups hot milk, 1 white turnip, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1/4 cup celery tops, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 slices onion, 
1% teaspoons salt, 2% cups boiling water, Vs teaspoon pepper, 2 
tablespoons tomato ketchup. 

Preparation — Pare and slice potatoes and turnip, add celery tops, 
onion, and boiling water,' cook half an hour, and press through a sieve; 
add hot milk, thicken with butter and flour blended together, season, 
and serve with croutons. 

Vegetable Soup 

Ingredients — V2 cup leeks, 3 cups boiling water, V2 cup carrots, 1 
cup half-inch potato cubes, 1 cup cabbage, 1 cup hot milk, 2 table- 
spoons beef drippings, 1 teaspoon salt, i/4 teaspoon pepper, 1 table- 
spoon chopped parsley. 

Preparation — Cut leeks into slices, carrots and cabbage into small 
pieces, or put through the food chopper, and cook in beef drippings 
for ten minutes, stirring often; add boiling water and potatoes, and 
cook twenty minutes, or until vegetables are tender; add milk and 
seasonings, and serve with croutons. 



SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 9 

Tomato Bouillon 

Ingredients — 1 can tomatoes, 6 cloves, 2 cups water, % bay leaf, 
% cup onion, IVz teaspoons salt, Vz cup carrot, dash of cayenne, 1 
cup celery tops, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 tablespoons tomato ketchup. 

Preparation — Simmer all ingredients except tomato ketchup for half 
an hour, strain through double cheesecloth, add ketchup, and serve 
either very hot or very cold. The tomato pulp should be pressed 
through a sieve and used for flavoring other soups or sauces. 

Potato Soup 

Ingredients — 3 potatoes sliced, 1 1/4 teaspoons salt, i/4 cup celery tops, 
1/4 teaspoon pepper, V2 onion, 2 cups hot milk, 2 cups boiling water, 
1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Cook potatoes, celery, onion, and water twenty min- 
utes; press through a sieve; add seasonings and hot milk, and thicken 
with butter and flour blended together. 

Tomato and Peanut Soup 

Ingredients — 1'/^ cups stewed and strained tomatoes, % teaspoon 
salt, y2 cup peanut butter, i/4 teaspoon paprika, 2y2 cups boiling 
water. 

Preparation — Add tomatoes gradually to peanut butter, and when 
smooth add seasonings and water; simmer ten minutes, and serve 
with croutons. Well seasoned soup stock may be substituted for the 
water; if so, use less salt. 

Tomato and Oatmeal Soup 

Ingredients — Vz can tomatoes, % cup rolled oats, 3 cups hot water, 
1 teaspoon salt, 2 slices onion, 1 teaspoon sugar, ^4 bay leaf, % tea- 
spoon soda, 3 cloves, % teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Preparation — Heat tomatoes, water, onion, bay leaf, and cloves to 
boiling point; add oatmeal gradually, and cook for forty-five minutes; 
press through a sieve; add seasonings and butter, and serve with 
croutons. 



SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Ingredients — 2 pounds knuckle of veal, 2 teaspoons salt, ^/^ pound 
liver, % teaspoon pepper, 1 onion, 2 tablespoons beef drippings, 1 
carrot, 4 tablespoons flour, % bay leaf, 1 teaspoon sugar, V2 cup 
celery tops, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 2 quarts water, ^A teaspoon kitchen 
bouquet, 1 hard-cooked egg. 

Preparation — Wash meat, add vegetables cut fine, and boiling water, 
and cook slowly for four hours; remove meat, strain stock, remove fat, 
and add salt and pepper; cook drippings, flour, and sugar together 
until brown; add to stock, and stir until smooth; add vinegar, kitchen 
bouquet, and one-half cup each of liver and veal cut in small pieces. 
Serve a slice of egg in each plate. The left-over meat may be used 
for hash, croquettes, etc. 



10 SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 

Chicken and Okra Soup 

Ingredients — 1 quart chicken stock, % green pepper chopped, 1 
tablespoon grated onion, 1 cup tomatoes, % teaspoon celery salt, ^ 
can okra, 2 tablespoons rice. 

Preparation — Heat stock to boiling point, add other ingredients, 
and simmer half an hour or until rice is tender. Add salt if neces- 
sary. Ham stock in place of chicken stock makes an excellent soup. 

Clam Bisque 

Ingredients — 1 pint clams, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup water, Vs teaspoon 
pepper, 1 slice onion, 2 cups hot milk, % teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1/4 teaspoon celery salt, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley. 

Preparation — Remove necks and gills from clams and chop fine; 
simmer with the soft part of clams, water, and onion for fifteen min- 
utes; add soda and seasonings; thicken the milk with the butter and 
flour cooked together; add to clams, sprinkle with parsley, and serve 
at once. 

Clam Bouillon 

Ingredients — 1 pint clams, % teaspoon salt, 2 cups cold water, Vi 
teaspoon celery salt, dash of cayenne. 

Preparation — Chop clams, add cold water, and simmer fifteen min- 
utes; add seasonings, and strain through double cheesecloth. Serve 
in cups -with or without whipped cream; or pour over the stiffly beaten 
white of one egg. 

Clear Soup 

Ingredients — Vi cup chopped carrot, 1 quart boiling water, % cup 
chopped onion, 1 teaspoon beef extract, i/4 chopped turnip, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 2 cloves, dash of cayenne, small bit bay leaf, few drops kitchen 
bouquet. 

Preparation — Cook vegetables, cloves, bay leaf, and water for ha^f ■ 
an hour, and strain through double cheesecloth. Add extract, salt, 
cayenne, and kitchen bouquet. Four bouillon cubes n:^aj' be used in 
place of extract, and the salt, cayenne, and bouquet omitted. 

Julienne Soup (Bouillon Cubes) 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons onion, i/4 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
carrot, 4 cups boiling water, 2 tablespoons white turnip, 3 bouillon 
cubes. 

Preparation — Cut vegetables into fine shreds an inch long, add salt 
and boiling water, and cook until tender; add bouillon cubes, and salt 
if necessary. I'wo tablespoons of tomato ketchup may be added. 

Cream of Chicken Soup 

Ingredients — 3 cups chicken stock, salt, 1 slice onion, Vs teaspoon 
pepper, V4, cup celery tops, 2 tablespoons chicken fat or butter, 1 cup 
hot milk, 3 tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Cook stock, onicn, and celery for fifteen minutes, and 
strain; add hot milk and seasonings, and thicken with chicken fat 
and flour blended togetlier. The amount of salt will depend upon the 
quantity in the stocl:. Celery salt may be used in place of celery tops. 



SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 11 

Musjiroom Soup 

Ingredients — M pound mushrooms, % teaspoon pepper, 3 cups stock, 
salt, 1 slice onion, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup hot milk, 4 tablespoons 
flour. 

Preparation — Wash mushrooms, chop stems, simmer with stock and 
onion for twenty minutes, and press through a sieve, reserving two 
or three whole caps; add milk, pepper, and salt if necessary; thicken 
with butter and flour blended together. Cut mushroom caps into bits, 
and add to soup. 

Onion Soup 

Ingredients — 1 slice bacon, 2 cups hot milk, 3 onions sliced, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, V2 green pepper chopped fine, dash of cayenne, 1 sprig 
parsley, 1 tablespoon bacon fat, 1 clove, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 cups 
boiling water, 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

Preparation — Cut bacon in small pieces and cook with onions and 
green pepper five minutes; add parsley, clove, and boiling water; 
simmer half an hour, and press through a sieve; add milk and season- 
ings, and thicken with bacon fat and flour blended together; add cheese 
just before serving. 

Oyster Stew 

Ingredients — 1 quart oysters, 1^/^ teaspoons salt, 1 quart milk, M 
teaspoon paprika, 2 tablespoons butter. 

Preparation — Pick over oysters to remove bits of shell, and cook 
in their own liquor until plump, skimming when necessary; scald 
milk, add seasonings and butter, and mix with oysters. Serve with 
oyster crackers. 

Oyster and Celery Bouillon 

Ingredients — 1 cup chopped celery tops, 1 pint small oysters, 1 slice 
onion, 1 teaspoon salt, Vz bay leaf, ^4 teaspoon paprika, 3 cups boil- 
ing water, white of 1 egg. 

Preparation — Simmer celery, onion, bay leaf, and water for fifteen 
minutes; add oysters finely chopped, and simmer ten minutes; strain 
through double cheesecloth; season with salt and paprika, and pour 
over the stiffly beaten white of egg. Serve in cups. Or serve with- 
out the egg, put a spoonful of whipped cream in each cup, and sprinkle 
with paprika. 

Salmon Bisque 

Ingredients — 1 small can salmon, 2 cups hot milk, 2 cups water, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 slice onion, 2 tablespoons flour, bit of bay leaf, 
1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper. 

Preparation — Separate salmon into flakes, add water, onion, and 
bay leaf; simmer for fifteen minutes, and remove onion and bay leaf; 
scald milk, thicken with butter and flour blended together; add sea- 
sonings, and mix with salmon. Serve with oyster crackers. 

Soup Stock 

Use the liquid in which any meat has been cooked. Season well 
with vegetables; if brown stock is wanted, add a small amount of 
kitchen bouquet or caramel, and a little beef or vegetable extract. 
(See suggestions for the Stock Pot, page 4.) 



12 SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 

Tomato Tapioca Soup 

Ingredients — 2 cups tomato, IV4, teaspoons salt, 3 cups hot water, 
% teaspoon pepper, 1 slice onion, 1 teaspoon sugar, % bay leaf, 2 
cubes beef extract, 4 cloves, 2 tablespoons granulated tapioca. 

Preparation — Mix the tomato and seasonings with the hot water; 
simmer for fifteen minutes, and rub through a sieve; add beef extract 
and tapioca, and cook fifteen minutes. Serve with croutons. 

Tuna Fish Soup 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons grated carrot, V4. teaspoon paprika, 1 
tablespoon grated onion, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 2 cups boiling 
water, % teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 2 cups hot milk, 1 cup tuna 
fish, 1/4 cup sifted crumbs, V2 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Cook vegetables, water, and milk in double boiler for 
twienty minutes; add crumbs, seasonings, tuna fish separated into 
flakes, and butter; cook five minutes. 

Beef Stew 

Ingredients — 2 pounds shoulder trimmings, 1 white turnip, 2 quarts 
boiling water, 3 potatoes sliced, 1 onion, 1 cup tomatoes, 1 carrot, 2% 
teaspoons salt, % teaspoon pepper, Vs cup flour. 

Preparation — Cut beef in pieces for serving, add water, and simmer 
two hours; put onion, carrot, and turnip through the food chopper, 
using coarse cutter, and add to meat; add potatoes, tomatoes, and 
seasonings, and cook forty-five minutes; thicken with flour mixed to 
a paste with cold water. Serve with dumplings. 

Irish Stew With Dumplings 

Ingredients — 2 pounds forequarter lamb, 1 onion, 2 quarts boiling 
water, 1 carrot, 2 teaspoons salt, 1 small white turnip, % teaspoon 
pepper, 4 potatoes, 4 tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Cut meat in small pieces, and trim off most of fat; 
cover with boiling water, and simmer for one hour; add salt and 
pepper, onion, carrot, and turnip cut in small cubes, and cook one hour; 
pare and slice potatoes, add to stew, and cook twenty minutes; thicken 
with flour mixed to a paste with cold water; add dumplings, cover, 
and cook twelve minutes. 

Dumplings 

Ingredients — 1 cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, ''■A teaspoon 
salt, V2 cup milk or water. 

Preparation — Sift flour, salt, and baking powder, and mix to a soft 
dough with milk; drop by spoonfuls upon boiling stew; cover closely, 
and cook twelve minutes. 

Lamb Broth With Spaghetti 

Ingredients — 1 quart lamb stock, 1 tablespoon chopped carrot, % 
cup tomato, Vs teaspoon pepper, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, Vs cup 
spaghetti, 1 cup bits of lamb. 

Preparation — Remove fat from stock; add vegetables, pepper, and 
(if necessary) salt; heat to boiling point, add spaghetti, and cook half 
an hour. Add meat just before serving. 



CHOWDERS 13 



Scotch Broth 

Ingredients — 2 pounds neck of mutton, 2 white turnips, 2% quarts 
cold water, 2 carrots, ^/4 cup pearl barley, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 onions, 
*/4 teaspoon pepper. 

Preparation — Wash mutton, cover with cold water, heat to boiling 
point, and simmer slowly for two hours; let stand over night. Soak 
barley in cold water over night. In the morning, remove fat from 
stock, remove meat from bones, and strain stock; if water has evap- 
orated, add enough to make two and a half quarts; heat stock to 
boiling point, add seasonings, barley, and vegetables, which have been 
pared and cut into small cubes. Cook for one hour, add meat, and 
cook slowly one hour longer. 



CHOWDERS 

Clam Chowder 

Ingredients — % cup half -inch cubes salt pork, 1 quart clams, 1 
onion sliced, 1% teaspoons salt, 2 cups boiling water, % teaspoon 
pepper, 4 cups potatoes cut in half-inch cubes, 3 cups hot milk, % cup 
sifted crumbs. 

Preparation — Cook salt pork and onion slowly for ten minutes; add 
boiling water and strain into chowder kettle; add potatoes, and cook 
twenty minutes; remove necks of clams, chop fine, add with the soft 
part of the potatoes, and cook ten minutes; add seasonings, hot milk, 
and crumbs, and serve with pilot crackers. The salt pork and onion 
may be served in the chowder if preferred. 

Corn Chowder 

Ingredients — Vs cup half -inch cubes salt pork, ^A teaspoon celery 
salt, 1 onion sliced, 1^ teaspoons salt, 3 cups boiling water, % tea- 
spoon paprika, 3 cups thinly sliced potatoes, 1 can com chopped, 2 
cups hot milk, 6 common crackers split. 

Preparation — Cook salt pork and onion together slowly for ten 
minutes; add boiling water, and strain into chowder kettle; add 
potatoes and seasonings, and cook about fifteen minutes or until 
potatoes are tender; put corn into a strainer, drain the juice into the 
kettle, and chop the corn, using finest cutter; add to chowder; add 
hot milk and crackers and cook five minutes. The bits of pork and 
onion may be left in the chowder if desired. 

Corn and Tomato Chowder 

Ingredients — V^ pound salt pork chopped fine, 2 teaspoons salt, 1 
onion chopped fine, % teaspoon pepper, 1 green pepper shredded, V2 
can com, 3 cups boiling water, 2 cups hot milk, V2 can tomatoes, 1 
tablespoon butter, 3 potatoes sliced, 2 tablespoons flour, 6 common 
crackers split. 

Preparation — Cook pork, onion and pepper slowly for ten minutes; 
add water, tomatoes, potatoes, salt and pepper and cook until potatoes 
are tender; add corn and milk and thicken with butter and flour 
blended together. Add crackers (which have been moistened in cold 
water) and simmer for five minutes. 



14 CHOWDERS 



Fish Chowder 

Ingredients — 3 pounds haddock, 2 teaspoons salt, % cup half-inch 
cubes salt pork, Vs teaspoon pepper, 1 onion sliced, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 quart cold water, 3 tablespoons flour, 4 cups thinly sliced 
potatoes, 2 cups hot milk, 6 common crackers split. 

Preparation — Order skin and bones removed from fish at market 
and have them delivered with fish and head; cook salt pork and 
onion together slowly for ten minutes; add fish head, skin and bones, 
cover with cold water; cook for twenty minutes and strain into chow- 
der kettle; add the fish (cut into two-inch pieces), potatoes, salt and 
pepper and cook twenty minutes; thicken milk with butter and flour 
blended together and mix with chowder; add crackers (which have 
been moistened in cold water), and cover for five minutes. Cod, hake, 
white fish, or any firm fish may be used instead of haddock. 

Oyster Chowder 

Ingredients — ^3 potatoes cut in half-inch cubes, 3 cups boiling water, 
1 onion chopped fine, 1 pint small oysters, i/4 cup celery chopped fine, 
1^/2 teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons bacon fat, Vs teaspoon pepper, 2 
cups hot milk, % cup sifted crumbs. 

Preparation — Cook potatoes, onion, celery and bacon fat in boiling 
water for fifteen minutes; add oysters, salt and pepper, and cook five 
minutes; skim, add hot milk and crumbs and serve with pilot crackers. 

Potato Chowder 
Follow recipe for corn chowder, cooking one-half cup of finely 
chopped carrot with the potatoes, and leaving out the com. 

Salmon Chowder 

Ingredients — Vs cup half-inch cubes salt pork, Vs cup flour, 1 onion 
sliced, 3 cups hot milk, 3 cups boiling water, 1 can salmon, 4 potatoes 
cut in half-inch cubes, 2 tablespoons sifted crumbs, 1 beaten egg, 
V4: teaspoon paprika, V2 teaspoon salt, Va teaspoon pepper, Vi teaspoon 
onion juice. 

Preparation — Cook salt pork and onion slowly for ten minutes; add 
boiling water and strain into chowder kettle; add potatoes and sea- 
sonings and cook twenty minutes; mix flour to a smooth paste with 
cold water; add to milk, cook five minutes and add to potatoes. Chop 
the salmon, add crumbs, egg, salt, pepper and onion juice and mix 
well; shape into balls about an inch in diameter, add to chowder and 
cook ten minutes. Serve with pilot crackers. 

Salt Fish Chowder 

Follow recipe for Com Chowder, using one cup flaked salt fish in 
place of corn. The fish should be soaked in cold water for one hour, 
drained and simmered in the chowder five minutes. 

Vegetable Chowder 

Ingredients — Vs cup half -inch cubes salt pork, V2 cup carrot chopped, 
1 onion finely chopped, Vz cup white turnip chopped, l^^ cups half- 
inch potato cubes, 1 quart boiling water, 1 cup half-inch parsnip cubes, 
3 cups hot milk, 2 teaspoons salt, ^4 teaspoon pepper, Vi cup dried 
bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Preparation — Cook pork and onion five minutes; add vegetables and 
water and cook about twenty minutes or until vegetables are tender; 
add milk, seasonings, crumbs and parsley. Four common crackers, 
split, may be used in place of bread crumbs. 



FISH 15 

FISH 

Baked Cod Steaks 

Wash and dry four slices of cod steak, season with salt and pepper, 
put in baking pan and pour around them one-half cup of water and 
one tablespoon of shortening; bake twenty- five minutes, basting often. 
Remove skin and bone, and pour over fish either Cheese Sauce or Egg 
Sauce. Sliced halibut may be baked in the same way. 

Baked Stuffed Haddock 

Wash and dry a three-pound fish, fill with Fish Stuffing and sew 
together. Place on a rack in a dripping pan, season with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour and cover with thin slices of salt pork; 
bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes, basting often. Until pork 
begins to try out, baste with two tablespoons of drippings melted in 
a quarter of a cup of boiling water. Serve with Egg Sauce and French 
Fried Potatoes, 

Boiled Halibut 

Order two pounds of halibut cut near the tail; wash, cover with 
boiling water, add one tablespoon each of salt and vinegar and boil 
about twenty- five minutes, skimming when necessary; drain, remove 
skin and serve with Egg Sauce or Cheese Sauce. 

Fried Fillets of Flounder 

Have skin and bone removed from two medium-sized flounders; 
divide each piece of fish lengthwise, making eight fillets; wash and 
dry, brush with melted butter and season with salt and pepper; roll, 
fasten with skewers, roll in flour, dip in egg, roll in crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat from five to seven minutes. Serve with sauce Tartare. 

Fish Sauteed With Salt Pork 

Cut one-quarter pound of salt pork in thin slices, try out in frying 
pan, and remove scraps to platter. Cut cod, haddock, white fish or 
any similar fish into one- inch slices; wash, season with salt and pep- 
per, dip in com meal, and saute on each side in pork fat about seven 
minutes, or until brown. 

Broiled Oysters 

Select large oysters, season lightly with salt and pepper, dip in 
melted butter and then in cracker crumbs. Place on a well-greased 
oyster broiler, and broil about three or four minutes, turning often. 
Serve very hot with lemon butter. 

Creamed Oyster Pie 

Bake a shell pie, fill with Creamed Oysters and cover with a 
meringue made of the stiffly beaten v/hites of two eggs, one teaspoon 
sugar, one-eighth teaspoon salt, two small sour pickles and one 
canned sweet pepper (pickles and pepper wiped dry and chopped fine). 
Bake in a moderate oven about ten minutes, or until meringue is well 
risen and brown. 



16 SALT AND SMOKED FISH 

Creamed Oysters 

Ingredients — 1 pint small oysters, milk, 2% tablespoons butter, % 
teaspoon salt, 5 tablespoons flour, V^ teaspoon paprika, % teaspoon 
celery salt. 

Preparation — Cook oysters in their own liquor until plump; drain 
and measure the liquor; melt butter, add flour, and blend well; add 
oyster liquor, and enough milk to make two cups; stir until smooth, 
add seasonings and oysters, and serve on toast. Garnish with toast 
points and sliced pickles. 

Oysters With Brown Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 pint oysters, % teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons bacon 
fat, Va teaspoon celery salt, 5 tablespoons flour, ^,i teaspoon pepper, 
stock or milk, i/4 teaspoon kitchen bouquet, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce. 

Preparation — Cook oysters until edges ruffle; drain and save the 
liquor; melt bacon fat, add flour, and stir until brown; to the oyster 
liquor add enough milk or stock to make two cups; add to flour and 
fat and stir until smooth; add seasoning and oysters, stir until hot 
and serve on toast or in Croustades or Patty Shells. 

Oysters and Macaroni 

Arrange two cups of cooked macaroni and one pint of small oysters 
in layers in a buttered baking dish; season each layer with salt and 
pepper, and dredge with flour; cover with buttered crumbs and bake 
in a hot oven twenty minutes. One-fourth cup of grated cheese may 
be added. 

Oyster Shortcake 

Follow recipe for Shortcake; fill, and cover top with Creamed 
Oysters. Garnish with parsley and thin slices of lemon. 

Panned Oysters 

Heat and butter individual egg shirrers, or other fireproof dishes 
which can be sent to the table; put in a piece of buttered toast, cover 
with oysters, season lightly with salt and pepper, and bake in a hot 
oven about ten minutes, or until the edges ruffle. Garnish with toast 
points and lemon and serve very hot. 



SALT AND SMOKED FISH 

Finnan Haddie Baked in Milk 

Wash fish, and soak in lukewarm water for half an hour; put in 
baking pan, add one-half cup each of milk and water, and bake about 
twenty-five minutes, basting often. Remove to platter, spread with 
butter, and strain liquid in the pan over fish. 

Baked Herring 

Arrange smoked, boned herring on pieces of entire wheat bread; 
place on platter and pour hot milk over them, allowing three-quar- 
ters of a cup for six slices of bread. Brown in a hot oven. 



SALT AND SMOKED FISH 17 

Baked Salt Mackerel (Spiced) 

Soak mackerel in cold water for twelve hours; drain and rinse with 
cold water. Place in a granite baking pan, sprinkle with one-fourth 
teaspoon of clove, allspice, cinnamon and pepper; add one-half cup 
each of vinegar and water; bake in a moderate oven one hour, bast- 
ing frequently. 

Salt Fish Baked With Crackers 

Ingredients — 1 cup flaked fish, 1 egg slightly beaten, 4 butter 
crackers, 2 cups milk, cold water, 1 tablespoon butter, a few grains 
pepper. 

Preparation — Split crackers, put with fish in a baking dish, cover 
with cold water, and soak over night or for several hours; drain, 
press out water, add other ingredients, and bake about twenty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Broiled Finnan Haddie 

Wash well, and soak in lukewarm water half an hour; dry, brush 
with melted butter, and broil for fifteen minutes, turning often; spread 
with butter, sprinkle with lemon juice and serve very hot. 

Broiled Salt Codfish 

Select thick pieces of fish, and soak over night in cold water; drain 
dry, brush with melted butter, and broil over a moderate fire ten min- 
utes, turning often. Spread with soft butter. 

Broiled Smoked Herring 

Soak herring in cold water half an hour; drain, pour boiling water 
over skin side, and soak for ten minutes; remove skin, place on a 
greased broiler, and cook over a clear fire about eight minutes, turn- 
ing frequently; spread with a little Mustard Butter and sprinkle with 
lemon juice. 

Broiled Smoked Salmon 

Soak salmon in cold water for twenty-four hours, changing the 
water once; drain, dry, place on a greased broiler, and broil over a 
moderate fireabout five minutes on each side, tumingoften. Spread 
with soft butter and sprinkle with lemon juice. 

Creamed Codfish 

Ingredients — 1% cups hot milk, % teaspoon pepper, 3 tablespoons 
flour, 1 cup salt codfish flaked, Vz tablespoon butter. 

Preparation — Thicken milk with flour which has been mixed to a 
paste with cold water, add pepper, and cook fifteen minutes; soak 
codfish for two hours in lukewarm water, separate into small flakes, 
add to sauce, and simmer five minutes; add butter just before serv- 
ing. One beaten egg or one hard-cooked egg chopped may be added. 
Serve with baked potatoes. 

Fish Balls 

Follow recipe for Fish Cakes, but shape slightly with a teaspoon, 
and cook in deep fat one minute. 



18 MEATS 

Fish Cakes With Pork Scraps 

Ingredients — 1 package shredded codfish, % teaspoon pepper, 2 cupa 
hot mashed potato, 1 egg well beaten, 2 tablespoons milk, ^A pound 
salt pork. 

Preparation — Soak fish in lukewarm water fifteen minutes; drain 
and squeeze in cheesecloth; add potato, pepper, egg, milk, and salt if 
necessary; beat well, shape into small flat cakes and roll in flour; 
cut pork in thin slices, and try out in frying pan; when crisp, but 
not burnt, remove to platter; cook fish cakes in fat in pan until 
brown, and serve with a piece of pork on each. 

Fish Hash 

Follow recipe for Fish Cakes, but omit the egg and add double the 
quantity of milk. Try out pork and remove scraps to platter; spread 
hash in frying pan with the fat and stir well; cook slowly until well 
browned. Fold double, and serve with pork scraps. 

Salt Codfish Souffle 

Ingredients — 1 cup shredded codfish, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 cups mashed 
potato (hot or cold), 2 tablespoons butter, dash of pepper, whites of 
2 eggs. 

Preparation — Soak the fish in lukewarm water for ten minutes; 
drain and dry thoroughly; mix with the potato; add egg yolks, which 
have been beaten very light, and the butter and pepper. Beat well, 
and fold in the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten stiff and 
dry. Put in greased baking dish, and bake about twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. Half of a green pepper and a slice of onion may 
be chopped and cooked in the butter, and added to the potato and fish. 

Spanish Codfish 

Ingredients — 1 onion, 1% cups tomatoes, 1 green pepper, % cup 
salt codfish, 2 tablespoons bacon fat, % teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Chop onion and pepper, and cook in the bacon fat 
about five minutes; add the tomatoes and simmer ten minutes; add 
codfish, which has been flaked and freshened in lukewarm water, and 
salt if necessary. Simmer two minutes and serve with border of 
boiled rice. 

MEATS 

Pressed Beef 

Wash a four-pound piece of beef flank or any other of the cheaper 
cuts. Cover with boiling water, bring to boiling point, and skin; slice 
and add two carrots, two onions and one white turnip; cook slowly 
for four hours or until meat is very tender; add two teaspoons of 
salt when half cooked; pack meat solidly into a deep bread pan, put- 
ting the grain of the meat lengthwise; place pan in a shallow pan 
to catch the overflow, put an empty bread pan on top of meat, and 
press with two heavy flatirons; let stand in a cool place over night. 
Strain the stock, and use for soups or sauces. 

Pressed Corned Beef 
Select a four-pound piece of shoulder or lean end of brisket lightly 
corned; wash well; cover with boiling water, and cook slowly for four 
hours; pack and press as for Pressed Beef. The heat should not be 
above the simmering point (185° F.); if the water boils the meat 
will be tough. 



MEATS 19 

Roast Beef 

The most economical cuts of beef for roasting are the shoulder, the 
face of the rump and the chuck ribs; they are all of good flavor and 
fairly tender. When ordering a shoulder roast, have an inch slice 
cut off to broil. The chuck roast should be ordered boned and rolled, 
and the bones sent with it. Wipe beef with cheesecloth, place skin 
side down on a rack in a roasting pan suitable for the size of the 
roast; dust with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and cook in a 
hot oven, basting every ten minutes. When half roasted, turn over, 
dredge with flour, and finish cooking. For a medium cooked roast 
allow seventeen minutes for each pound of meat. The oven should 
be very hot for the first fifteen minutes, after which the heat should 
be reduced. 

Pot Roast of Beef 

A small aitchbone or a solid piece from the shoulder weighing about 
five pounds makes an economical roast. Wash, dry, season with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and brown quickly in a hot frying pan 
or Scotch kettle; place in kettle, half cover with water, cover closely 
and cook slowly four hours; when half cooked, season with salt and 
pepper; add four small onions, two carrots and one white turnip cut 
in quarters; when cooked place meat on platter with vegetables 
around it; remove fat from gravy and thicken with flour mixed to a 
paste with cold water, allowing one-fourth cup of flour to two cups 
of gravy. Color with a few drops of kitchen bouquet if necessary. 

Shin of Beef With Creole Sauce 

Ingredients — 4 pounds shin of beef, ^/4 teaspoon celery salt, % 
onion sliced, ^/i teaspoon paprika, % carrot sliced, % teaspoon salt, 
2 cups tomato, 4 tablespoons dried bread crumbs, 1 green pepper 
chopped, Vi onion chopped. 

Preparation — Wash meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper; put into 
an iron kettle or earthen crock; add onion and carrot; cover closely, 
and bake in a slow oven four hours. Remove meat from the bone; 
skim fat from stock. Cook tomatoes, pepper, onion and seasonings 
twenty minutes; add stock, crumbs and meat. The meat cooks in 
its own juice and will be very tender. 

Stufifed Shin of Beef 

Ingredients — 4 pounds shin of beef, 1 small white turnip, 1 onion, 
Vz teaspoon salt, 1 carrot, 1 quart boiling water. 

Preparation — Have the bone removed and cracked; finely chop 
vegetables and stuff into beef; place on a trivet in kettle with the 
bone; add boiling water and cook slowly for four hours. Skim when 
necessary. Remove meat, and thicken gravy with flour mixed into a 
paste with cold water, allowing one-fourth cup flour to two cups 
gravy. Color with a few drops of kitchen bouquet. 

To Broil Steak 
Wipe steak, trim off superfluous fat, place on a greased broiler with 
fat towards the handle, and broil over a clear fire or under a gas 
flame. Turn four or five times during the first minute and then 
occasionally. For steak an inch and a half thick, medium cooked, 
allow twelve minutes to broil. Season with salt and pepper and 
spread with soft butter. A slice from the shoulder is a good and 
inexpensive cut. 



20 MEATS 

Broiled Flank Steak 

Follow directions for broiling steak, but, as flank steak is thinner, 
broil only seven or eight minutes. Season with salt and pepper, 
spread with one tablespoon of soft butter and one tablespoon of 
tomato ketchup. 

Steak Country Style 

Ingredients — IVz pounds flank steak, % teaspoon salt, 4 onions, 
Vs teaspoon pepper, 1 tablespoon flour, V4, cup boiling water. 

Preparation — Pound the steak with a meat pounder or a wooden 
potato masher to break the tough fibers. Sear quickly on each side 
in a very hot frying pan; peel and chop onions, dredge with flour 
and put in pan with the steak; add salt and pepper; cover closely 
and cook slowly an hour and a half. Put steak on platter, add boil- 
ing water to onions, and pour around steak. Serve with hashed brown 
potatoes. 

Broiled Chopped Beef 

Put one pound and a half of any of the cheaper cuts of beef through 
the meat chopper; season with pepper and salt and pat lightly into 
a flat cake an inch thick; place carefully on a greased broiler, and 
broil about eight minutes for a medium-cooked steak. Spread with 
soft butter. 

Hamburg Meat Cakes 

Ingredients — 1 pound beef, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 thin slice salt pork, 
% teaspoon pepper, i/4 cup dried crumbs, V2 cup milk. 

Preparation — Use any of the cheaper cuts of beef; put through the 
meat chopper with the salt pork, add crumbs, seasoning, and milk; 
mix well, shape into small flat cakes, roll in flour, and saute slowly 
in beef drippings until brown, allowing ten minutes for each side. 
Eemove meat to platter; add two tablespoons of flour to the fat in 
the pan, and stir until brown; add one-fourth teaspoon each of mus- 
tard, salt and paprika, and one cup of boiling water. Stir until 
smooth and pour around meat cakes. One teaspoon of grated onion 
may be added to meat. 

Casserole of Beef 

Ingredients — 1 pound of shoulder trimmings, 1 onion, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 tablespoon pearl tapioca, 1^/4 teaspoons salt, 2 potatoes, % tea- 
spoon paprika, 1 carrot, 1 tablespoon tomato ketchup, cold water. 

Preparation — Cut beef into inch pieces, sear quickly in hot frying 
pan, dredge with flour and put into casserole; cut potatoes into cubes 
or balls; put carrot and onion through meat chopper; mix vegetables, 
and add to meat; add tapioca and seasonings, cover with cold water 
(a little of the water should be put into the frying pan to obtain all 
the flavor of the meat and then added to the rest). Cover and bake 
slowly two and a half hours. Any of the other cheaper cuts of meat 
may be used. Serve with spinach or cold slaw. 

American Chop Suey 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons bacon fat, 1 can condensed tomato soup, 
1 onion finely chopped, 1 cup cooked spaghetti, V4, pound flank beef 
chopped fine, V2 teaspoon salt, Vs teaspoon pepper. 

Preparation — Cook onion and beef in fat until brown; add tomato, 
spaghetti and seasonings and simmer ten minutes. 



MEATS ■ 21 

Beef and Bacon Cakes 

Ingredients — 1 pound flank of beef, Vt. cup water, 3 slices bacon, 
M, teaspoon salt, ^/4 cup dried bread crumbs, dash of cayenne. 

Preparation — Put meat and bacon through chopper; add crumbs, 
water and seasonings; mix well, form into small flat cakes and saute 
in bacon fat. 

Creamed Dried Beef With Cheese 

Ingredients — % pound dried beef, 1 cup milk, 1% tablespoons but- 
ter, 2 tablespoons grated cheese, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons 
ketchup. 

Preparation — Cut beef in small pieces cover with boiling water, 
let stand five minutes and drain; melt butter, add beef and stir until 
hot; add flour and milk and stir until smooth; add cheese and ketchup, 
and stir until cheese is melted. Serve with baked potatoes. 

Beef Loaf 

Ingredients — 2 pounds shoulder trimmings chopped, Vz teaspoon 
pepper, i^ pound salt pork chopped, 1^/2 teaspoons salt, 3 common 
crackers rolled fine, 1 cup milk. 

Preparation — Mix in order given and bake in a deep pan about two 
hours in a slow oven. Serve hot with Tomato Sauce or Creole Sauce, 
or serve cold, sliced. One teaspoon of poultry seasoning may be 
added if desired. 

Brown Fricassee of Lamb 

Ingredients — 2 pounds forequarter lamb, 2 onions, 2 quarts boiling 
water, 2 white turnips, 1^ teaspoons salt, 2 carrots, 5 tablespoons 
flour, ^/4 teaspoon kitchen bouquet. 

Preparation — Cut lamb in pieces the size of a chop, trim off nearly 
all fat, add boiling water, heat to boiling point and skim; add salt 
and vegetables (left whole), and simmer for two hours; remove meat, 
season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute with two 
tablespoons of fat in a hot frying pan until brown; to the fat in the 
pan add the flour and stir until brown, add two cups of stock and stir 
until smooth; color with kitchen bouquet, add pepper, and salt if 
necessary. Slice vegetables, and serve with meat. Use left-over stock 
for soups or sauces. 

Lamb Cutlets 

Have a small forequarter of lamb cut in pieces for serving; select 
the best pieces, trim and skewer into shape. Season lightly with salt 
and pepper, dip in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat about seven 
minutes; or dip in flour and saute on each side about ten minutes; or 
broil on each side about five minutes. The rest of the forequarter 
can be used for fricassee, Scotch broth, croquettes and many other 
dishes. 

Lamb Chops 

Chops from the forequarter are much cheaper than loin or kidney 
chops. They contain more bone, but are tender and of good flavor, 
if well cooked. Cook the same as Lamb Cutlets. The time of cook- 
ing may vary slightly according to the thickness of the meat. 



22 MEATS 

Casserole of Lamb 

Ingredients — 1% pounds forequarter lamb, 1 cup tomato, % cup 
each white turnip, carrot and onion finely chopped, 2 tablespoons rolled 
oats, 1/4 teaspoon pepper, 1% teaspoons salt, 3 cups hot water. 

Preparation — Remove fat and cut meat into inch pieces; put into a 
casserole with vegetables, oats, seasonings and water, and cook in a 
moderate oven two hours. 

Rolled Roast of Lamb 

Order a small forequarter of lamb boned and rolled; have the bones 
sent with the meat; wash bones and meat; put bones in kettle, put 
meat on top; add one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, one bay leaf and 
a sprig of thyme. Cover with two quarts of boiling water and sim- 
mer for two hours, skimming when necessary; add two teaspoons of 
salt after meat has cooked one hour. Remove meat to a roasting pan, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and roast in a hot 
oven about half an hour. To the drippings in the pan add four table- 
spoons of flour and stir until brown; add one and a half cups of stock 
which has been strained and had fat removed; stir until smooth and 
serve with meat. The left-over stock should be used for soups and 
sauces. The forequarter of lamb, although quite fat, is tender and 
of good flavor, and costs much less than a leg of lamb. 

Country Club Rabbit 

Cut a young rabbit in pieces for serving; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; dip in flour, then in egg and coat thickly with crumbs; put 
into a well-greased baking pan and bake in a hot oven about half an 
hour, basting often with bacon fat. Arrange rabbit on serving dish 
and make a brown sauce in the pan, using three tablespoons each of 
bacon fat and flour, one teaspoon of grated onion and one and one- 
half cups of stock, milk or boiling water. Season with one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, one-fourth teaspoon paprika and two tablespoons tomato 
ketchup. 

Casserole of Rabbit and Okra 

Ingredients — 3 slices bacon, 1% teaspoons salt, 1 rabbit, % tea- 
spoon pepper, 1 onion finely chopped, 2 cups boiling water, 3 table- 
spoons flour, 1 cup tomatoes, 1 pint okra sliced. 

Preparation — Cut bacon into one-inch pieces and cook in frying pan 
until brown; remove bacon; cut rabbit in pieces for serving and soak 
half an hour in cold salted water; drain, dredge with flour, brown in 
bacon fat, and put with cooked bacon in a casserole dish; cook onions 
in bacon fat until brown; add flour, salt, pepper and boiling water; 
stir until smooth and pour over rabbit; add tomato and okra, sprinkle 
with salt; cover and bake in a moderate oven one hour and a half. 

Roast Pork 

Have the bone removed from a six-pound fresh shoulder of pork; 
wash dry, and stuff with Bread Stuffing or Peanut Stuffing; season 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and roast in a moderate oven 
about two and three-quarters hours. Bast often, and be sure oven is 
not too hot, as pork must cook slowly. This is an excellent cut, and 
less expense than the loin or fresh leg. Strain the fat and add it to 
the frying fat, or use in place of lard. Have the bones sent and use 
for stock. Serve with Dark Red Apple Sauce. 



MEATS 23 

Pork Chops Baked with Potatoes 
Pare potatoes, and cut in thin slices; wash, drain, season with salt 
and pepper, and put into a baking dish; cover with small pork chops 
from which part of the fat has been removed; dust with salt, pepper, 
and flour; add half a cup of boiling water, and bake in a hot oven 
about forty minutes. Turn chops when half cooked. 

Sausage Cakes 

Ingredients — V2 pound sausage meat, % teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
grated onion, % cup hot water, % cup sifted crumbs. 

Preparation — Mix well, shape into small flat cakes, roll in crumbs, 
and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes, or until brown. 

Sausage Cakes Baked with Apple 

Ingredients — 1 pound sausage meat, 4 apples. 

Preparation — Shape meat into small flat cakes, and put in the cen- 
ter of a dripping pan; core apples, cut into half -inch slices, and put 
around sausage. Bake in a hot oven until brown, basting frequently 
with the fat from the sausage. 

Sausages with Oyster and Eggs 

Ingredients — 4 small sausages, 1 cup small oysters, 1 teaspoon 
grated onion, 2 eggs slightly beaten, ^4 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Cut sausages into half-inch bias slices, and cook with 
onion in a hot frying pan until brown; add oysters, and cook until 
edges ruffle; add eggs and salt, and scramble until firm. 

Potted Head 

Ingredients — 1 calf's head, 1% teaspoons salt, 1 pound lean fresh 
pork, V2 teaspoon paprika, 6 cups boiling water, 1 teaspoon onion 
juice, 1 teaspoon poultry seasoning. 

Preparation — Have head split and dressed at the market; singe, 
v/ash well, put in kettle with pork and boiling water, cover, and 
simmer three hours. Remove bones, and put meat through chopper; 
reduce stock to one and one-half cups, strain, and add, with season- 
ings, to the meat. Press into a bread pan and put in a cold place. 
Serve sliced cold, or dip slices in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Ham Loaf 

Ingredients — 1 pound raw ham, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup dried crumbs, 
Vi teaspoon mustard, 1 cup boiling water, i/4 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Put ham, including the fat, through meat chopper; 
add crumbs, water, eggs, and seasoning; mix well, and bake in a 
small bread pan, in a slow oven, an hour and a half; or cook in 
steamer two hours. 

Baked Sliced Ham 

Order a small slice of ham cut an inch and a half thick; cover with 
warm water, and place on the back of the range for an hour. Drain 
ham, cover with a mixture of two tablespoons of flour, two table- 
spoons of brown sugar, one-half teaspoon of m.ustard, and a dash of 
cayenne. Put a few small bits of the fat on top, and bake twenty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven. Place ham on platter, pour off fat 
in the pan, add one-fourth cup of cider or weak vinegar; bring to 
boiling point, and pour around ham. 



24 MEATS 

Broiled Ham 

Ham for broiling should be cut in very thin slices. Trim off 
superfluous fat, cover ham with lukewarm water, and stand on back 
of range for fifteen minutes; dry, and broil over clear fire until fat is 
brown. 

Breakfast Bacon 

Lay slices of bacon close together on a fine wire broiler, place 
broiler over a dripping pan, and bake in a hot oven about ten minutes 
or until bacon is brown and crisp. Avoid burning. Save fat for cook- 
ing. 

Roast Breast of Veal Stuffed 

Have a pocket cut in veal, wash, dry, and stuff with Crust Stuffing; 
skewer neatly into shape, dredge with flour, season with salt and 
pepper, and cover with two thin slices of fat salt pork; place on rack 
in dripping pan, and roast in a moderate oven two hours, basting 
often. Serve with gravy made from drippings in the pan, three 
tablespoons of flour, and one and one-half cups of water. Season with 
salt and pepper, and strain. 

Veal with Vegetables 

Ingredients — 3 pounds knuckle of veal, M cup pearl barley, % cup 
each of finely chopped onion, carrot, turnip, and celery, 2 cups hot 
water, IVi teaspoons salt, V4: teaspoon paprika. 

Preparation — Order veal cut in three-inch lengths; remove meat 
from bone, and put in a casserole dish; add vegetables, barley (which 
has been soaked for an hour in cold water), hot water, and season- 
ings; place the pieces of bone, cut edge down, on top; cover closely, 
and bake in a moderate oven two and a half hours. Remove the bones 
before serving. 

Veal Loaf (Baked) 

Ingredients — ^2^ pounds raw veal, 2 teaspoons salt, V^ pound salt 
pork, 1 cup dried and sifted crumbs, % teaspoon pepper, Vz cup boil- 
ing water, % cup milk. 

Preparation — Put veal and pork through the meat chopper; add 
pepper, salt, crumbs, water, and milk. Mix well, press into a deep 
pan, cover v/ith paper and bake slowly for two hours. Serve hot or 
cold. A teaspoon each of poultry seasoning and grated onion may be 
added. 

Veal Loaf (Boiled) 

Ingredients — 4 pounds knuckle of veal, 4 cups hot water, 1 onion, V2 
package gelatine, 1 bay leaf, Vi cup cold water, juice of one lemon, 
2y2 teaspoons salt, 1 hard-boiled egg, V2 teaspoon pepper, 2 gherkins. 

Preparation — Cook veal with seasonings in hot water until meat is 
very tender; strain, remove fat and bone, and chop meat; soak gela- 
tine in cold water, add to strained stock in which meat was cooked, 
add meat and lemon juice, cool, and turn into deep pan which has 
been garnished with slices of hard-boiled egg and pickles sliced 
lensrthwise. Put in the ice-box for several hours before serving. 



MEATS 25 

Braised Liver 

Ingredients — 3 pounds liver, % cup carrots finely chopped, IV2- 
inch cube salt pork, V2 teaspoon salt, % cup onion finely chopped, % 
teaspoon pepper, 2 cups boiling water, Va cup celery finely chopped, 
Vi cup flour. 

Preparation — Soak liver in cold salted water for half an hour, scald, 
remove skin, and dredge with flour; cut pork in thin slices, and try 
out in frying pan; brown liver in pork fat, and place in an earthen 
dish or kettle, add vegetables, seasonings, and water which has first 
been put in the frying pan; cover closely, and bake three hours in a 
slow oven, adding water if necessary; remove liver, and thicken gravy 
and vegetables with one-fourth cup of flour mixed to a paste with 
cold water. 

Brown Fricassee of Liver 

Ingredients — 1 pound liver, 4 tablespoons flour, 2 cups boiling water, 
% teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons bacon fat, ^4 teaspoon paprika, 1 
tablespoon grated onion, 6 slices of toast. 

Preparation — Cut liver into half-inch cubes, and soak in cold salted 
water fifteen minutes; drain; cover with the boiling water, and sim- 
mer six minutes; cook bacon fat, onion, and flour until brown; add 
seasonings, and stock in which liver was cooked; stir until smooth; 
add liver, and pour over toast or small, thin baking powder biscuit. 

Chicken Livers and Bacon 

Cook chicken livers in boiling salted water fifteen minutes; put 
each liver on half a slice of bacon, fold other half over liver, and bake 
in a hot oven until bacon is crisp; moisten slices of toast with the 
stock in which livers were cooked, and serve two pieces of bacon and 
livers on toast for each person. 

Fried Lamb's Liver and Bacon 

Cut liver in one-third-inch slices; soak in cold water for half an 
hour; drain, dry, and cook in hot deep fat, with six slices of bacon, 
until brown. 

Lambs' Kidneys in Brown Sauce 

Ingredients — 6 lambs' kidneys, Vi teaspoon paprika, 1% cups boil- 
ing water, V2 teaspoon onion juice, l^^ tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, V2 teaspoon salt, few drops kitchen bouquet, 6 
slices of toast. 

Preparation — Split kidneys and soak in cold water half an hour; 
drain; cover with boiling water, and simmer five minutes; skim out 
of water, and cut in small dice, brown the butter, add the flour, and 
brown well; add the water in which the kidneys were cooked, and 
stir until smooth; add kidneys and seasonings, and serve on toast. 

Spanish Tripe 

Ingredients — 1 pound fresh boiled tripe, V2 cup chopped white cab- 
bage, Vz can tomatoes, % teaspoon salt, % onion chopped, few grains 
cayenne, Vz green pepper chopped, 2 slices bacon. 

Preparation — Cut tripe in small pieces for serving and put in 
greased casserole dish; scald tomatoes, add onion, pepper, cabbage, 
and seasonings; pour over tripe; cut bacon into bits, put on top, and 
bake in a moderate oven one hour. 



26 WARMED-OVER MEATS 

Devilled Kidneys 

Ingredients — 6 lambs' kidneys, split, 1 cup water or stock, 3 table- 
spoons drippings, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 1 tablespoon 
chopped onion, 1 teaspoon mustard, 3 tablespoons flour, V4, teaspoon 
salt, dash of cayenne. 

Preparation — Scald, skin, and split kidneys; cook with fat and onion 
five minutes, and remove from the pan. To the fat in the pan add 
flour, and stir until brown; add liquid, and stir until smooth; add 
seasonings and kidneys. Serve on toast or with mashed potato border. 

Tripe Fried in Batter 

Ingredients — 1 pound fresh boiled tripe, 1 cup flour, 1 slice onion, 
1% teaspoons baking powder, 2 cloves, Vi teaspoon salt, % bay leaf, 
1 egg well beaten, 1 tablespoon vinegar, % cup water. 

Preparation — Cut tripe in pieces the size of a large oyster, cover 
with boiling water, add seasonings, simmer fifteen minutes, and drain. 
Make a batter of flour, baking powder, salt, egg, and water. Dry 
each piece of tripe, dip in batter, and fry in deep fat for one minute. 
Serve with Sauce Tartare or Russian Dressing. 

Tripe Fried in Crumbs 

Prepare tripe as for Tripe Fried in Batter; dip each piece of tripe 
first in tomato ketchup, then in crumbs, then in beaten egg, and then 
in crumbs again. Fry in deep fat for one minute, and drain on soft 
paper. 



WARMED-OVER MEATS 

Savory Beef 

Ingredients— 1^/^ cups tomatoes, % teaspoon pepper, Vz cup beef 
gravy, l^/^ cups cold roast beef, Vz onion, 2 cups cooked" spaghetti, 4 
cloves V2 cup bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons beef 
drippings, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Preparation — Simmer tomatoes, gravy, and seasonings for fifteen 
minutes, and press through a sieve; add beef cut in small pieces, and 
spaghetti, and pour into a greased baking dish; cover with crumbs 
which have been mixed with the drippings and butter melted together. 
Bake in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. A can of condensed 
tomato soup may be used in place of the tomato sauce. Any meat 
may be used. 

Baked Ham and Potato 

Ingredients — 3 cups well-seasoned mashed potato, % teaspoon 
mustard, 6 pimolas chopped, 1 cup chopped cooked ham, V2 cup hot 
milk, 1 teaspoon grated onion, i/4 cup crumbs, 1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley, 1 tablespoon bacon fat. 

Preparation — Mix potato, ham, seasonings, and milk, put into a 
greased baking dish, cover with crumbs which have been mixed with 
melted bacon fat, and bake in a hot oven until brown; or prepare half 
of mixture, spread in egg shirrers, make a depression with the back 
of a spoon, and into it carefully break an egg; cover with crumbs, 
and bake until egg is set. 



WARMED-OVER MEATS 27 

Scalloped Corned Beef 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons beef drippings, ^/4 teaspoon celery salt, 
1 cup corned beef stock, 5 tablespoons flour, % cup hot milk, 1 tea- 
spoon grated onion, IVz cups corned beef cut in half-inch cubes, V4, 
teaspoon paprika, V2 cup buttered crumbs. 

Preparation — Melt drippings, add flour, onion, and seasonings, and 
cook two minutes; add stock and milk, and stir until smooth; add 
meat, and put into a greased baking dish; cover with crumbs, and 
bake until crumbs are brown. 

Ham Mousse 

Ingredients — 1% cups chopped cooked ham, 1 cup hot milk, 1 tea- 
spoon mixed mustard, V2 cup soft bread crumbs, %, teaspoon paprika, 
1 tablespoon gelatine, whites of 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Mix ham with bread crumbs; dissolve the gelatine in 
the hot milk, and add to crumbs with mustard and paprika; beat the 
whites of eggs very stiff and fold lightly into mixture. Put into a 
deep pan or mold, and place on ice until firm. A little salt may be 
needed. 

Corned Beef Hash with Beets 

Ingredients — 1% cups corned beef, % teaspoon salt, 2 cups cooked 
potatoes, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, V2 cup cooked beets, 1 
teaspoon grated onion, i/4 cup stock or water, 2 tablespoons beef 
drippings. 

Preparation — Have meat, potatoes, and beets coarsely chopped; add 
seasonings and stock; melt fat in frying pan, and, when very hot, add 
hash; cook slowly until a rich brown crust is formed; fold, and serve 
on a hot platter. If meat is very fat, use less fat in frying pan. 

Savory Hash (Baked) 

Ingredients — 1 cup cold meat cut fine, 1 cup tomatoes, 2 cups cold 
cooked potatoes, % teaspoon salt, Vs teaspoon pepper, % onion finely 
chopped, 2 tablespoons melted bacon fat or beef drippings, 2 stalks 
celery chopped, or M teaspoon celery salt. 

Preparation — Mix, and bake in casserole in moderate oven forty- 
five minutes. 

Southern Hash 

Ingredients — 4 raw potatoes, % cup stock or water, 2 green pep- 
pers, 1% cups cold chopped beef, 2 tomatoes, salt and pepper, 1 onion, 
toast points. 

Preparation — Put vegetables through the meat chopper, using 
coarse cutter; cook in the stock, covered, until tender; add beef, salt, 
and pepper, and when hot turn on a platter and garnish with toast 
points. If corned beef and stock are used, use salt with care. 

Meat Shortcake 

Ingredients — 1^/4 cups cooked meat, chopped; V4, teaspoon salt, V2 
cup celery tops, chopped; % teaspoon paprika, Vz teaspoon dry 
mustard, 1 teaspoon grated onion, 1 cup meat gravy or thickened 
stock. 

Preparation — Mix ingredients, simmer for fifteen minutes, and put 
between layers of Shortcake. 



28 VEGETABLES 



Meat and Tomato Pie 

Ingredients — 2 cups cooked meat cut in inch pieces, V2, teaspoon 
onion juice, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 1 can tomatoes drained, 
salt and pepper, quick drop biscuit, M cup iine crumbs, V^ cup gravy 
or stock. 

Preparation — In a deep dish arrange in alternate layers meat and 
tomatoes cut in pieces; season each layer with salt and pepper, and 
sprinkle with crumbs; add onion and Worcestershire sauce to gravy, 
and pour over all; bake twenty minutes In a hot oven; remove from 
oven, and drop biscuit mixture by spoonfuls on top; bake about fif- 
teen minutes longer. Use tomato juice for soup or sauce. 

Meat Souffle 

Ingredients — Vz cup dry bread crumbs, Vz onion chopped fine, 1% 
cups hot stock or milk, Wz teaspoons salt, 1 tablespoon butter, Vt. 
teaspoon paprika, ly^. cups chopped meat, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup 
celery or white cabbage chopped fine, v/hites of 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Mix in the order given, beating the yolks until thick 
and light, and the whites until very stiff. Bake in a moderate oven 
about half an hour. Any left-over meat may be used. 

Liver Patties 

Ingredients — 2 cups chopped cooked liver, 2 tablespoons finely 
chopped pickles, 2 cups mashed potato, salt and pepper, coarse stale 
bread crumbs. 

Preparation — Mix liver, potato, and pickles, and season with salt 
and pepper. Grease patty pans or cups; sprinkle with crumbs, and 
fill with mixture. Bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven, turn out on 
serving dish, and serve with Brown Sauce or Tomato Sauce. 



VEGETABLES 

Boston Baked Beans 

Ingredients — 1 quart pea beans ^/4 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon salt, 
1/4 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon dry mustard, Vz pound fat salt pork. 

Preparation — Soak beans in cold water over night; drain, cover with 
cold water, heat to boiling point, and simmer until beans are very 
tender but not broken; place in an earthen bean pot, add seasonings 
and pork (which has been scalded, scraped, and scored in half -inch 
squares); fill pot with boiling water, cover, and bake slowly for eight 
hours. Uncover for the last hour. Replenish water as needed. 

Thick Puree of Black Beans 

Ingredients — 2 cups beans, i/4 teaspoon mustard, 1 onion, % tea- 
spoon salt, 1 carrot, % teaspoon pepper, Vz bay leaf, 3 tablespoons 
bacon fat, 1 quart boiling water. 

Preparation — Soak beans over night in cold water; drain, add sea- 
sonings, bacon fat, and water, and simmer two hours; remove onion, 
carrot, and bay leaf, and press through a sieve. Beat well, and serve 
with lamb or mutton. 



VEGETABLES " 29 



Lima Bean Loaf 

Ingredients — 1 cup dried Lima beans, % teaspoon paprika, 1 onion, 
1 egg slightly beaten, 1 carrot, 2 tablespoons sausage fat or butter, 1 
cup dried sifted crumbs, V2 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt, 6 
pimolas, M teaspoon mustard. 

Preparation — Soak beans over night in cold water, and drain; cover 
with boiling water, add onion and carrot, and cook until beans are 
tender; drain, and put through the food chopper with carrot and 
onion; add crumbs, seasonings, egg, and sausage fat melted in boiling 
water; add pimolas cut in small pieces, mix well, pack in a greased 
bread pan, and bake in a moderate oven half an hour. Serve with 
Tomato Sauce. 

Baked Cabbage 

Cut a small white cabbage in inch pieces, soak in cold water half an 
hour, and drain; parboil ten minutes, place in greased baking dish, 
cover vdth one cup of White Sauce, and one-half cup of Buttered 
Crumbs; bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 

Cabbage Cooked in Milk 

Put a small white cabbage through the food chopper, using the 
coarse cutter; soak in cold water half an hour, drain, cover with equal 
parts of milk and water, and cook uncovered about twenty-five min- 
utes, or until cabbage is tender. Season with salt and pepper. 

Cucumbers Sauteed 

Peel two cucumbers, cut in halves crosswise, slice in one-third-inch 
slices lengthwise, and soak in salted water for one hour; drain, dry, 
dip in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, and saute in hot fat until 
brown. Serve on toast. 

Carrots Sauteed 

Select very small carrots; wash, scrape, and cook until tender in 
boiling salted water. Drain, dredge with flour, and saute in fat until 
brown. 

Creamed Celery Root (Celeriac) with Cheese 

Peel celery root, cut in half-inch cubes, and cook until tender in 
boiling salted water, to which a tablespoon of vinegar has been added. 
To three cups of root add one and one-half cups of White Sauce; put 
into a baking dish, sprinkle with a third of a cup of grated cheese, 
and place in a hot pven until cheese melts. Celery may be used in 
place of celery root. 

Southern Corn Pudding 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon bacon fat, 1 egg well beaten, V2 green 
pepper chopped, 1 cup milk, 1 slice onion chopped, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 
can corn chopped, % teaspoon paprika, 2 tablespoons dried bread 
crumbs, 2 slices bacon chopped fine. 

Preparation — Cook pepper and onion in bacon fat five minutes; add 
corn, crumbs, egg, milk, and seasonings; pour into a greased baking 
dish, sprinkle with the chopped bacon, and bake in a slow oven until 
firm, or about twenty-five minutes. 



TM 



30 VEGETABLES 



Braised Celery 

Ingredients — 1 quart celery cut in 2-inch lengths, 1 tablespoon 
grated onion, 2 tablespoons bacon fat, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 cups 
stock. 

Preparation — Cook celery, bacon fat, and onion in the frying pan for 
ten minutes; dredge with flour, put in baking dish, add stock (first 
rinsing frying pan with a little of it), cover, and bake in a moderate 
oven an hour and a half. Serve on toast. Add salt to stock if neces- 
sary. 

Stuffed Green Peppers 

Ingredients — 6 green peppers, 1 cup cooked rice, 2 tablespoons 
bacon fat, % cup tomatoes, 1 teaspoon grated onion, % teaspoon salt, 
Vi cup buttered crumbs. 

Preparation — Cut off one inch of the tops of peppers, and chop 
the tops; remove seeds and veins from peppers, scald with boiling 
water, and drain; cook chopped pepper with onion in the bacon fat for 
five minutes; add rice, tomatoes, and salt; fill peppers, cover with 
crumbs, place in a baking dish or in individual ramekins, and bake in 
a moderate oven half an hour. 

Baked Egg Plant 

Ingredients — 1 small egg plant, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 onion finely 
chopped, 1/4 teaspoon paprika, 1 cup soft stale bread crumbs, Vz cup 
boiling water, 2 tablespoons butter. 

Preparation — Pare and slice egg plant, cut into half-inch cubes, 
soak in cold salted water half an hour, and drain; mix with onion, 
crumbs, and seasonings, and put into a greased baking dish; add 
boiling water, dot over with butter, and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Fried Egg Plant 

Cut a small egg plant in one-third-inch slices; pare; cut each slice 
in quarters; soak in cold salted water for half an hour; drain; sea- 
son with pepper and salt, dip in crumbs, then in egg, and then in 
crumbs again; and fry in deep fat about three minutes. Or dip in 
flour and saute in butter. 

Egg Plant Julienne 

Cut egg plant in two-inch slices, and pare; cut into quarter-inch 
vertical slices, and cut slices into quarter- inch strips; soak in cold 
salted water for half an hour; drain; dry, and fry in deep fat about 
three minutes. 

Onions in Potato Nests 

Ingredients — 1 quart small white onions, Vs teaspoon pepper, 1 
tablespoon butter, Vi cup hot milk, 6 potatoes, 1 tablespoon chopped 
parsley, % teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Peel onions and cook in boiling salted water about one 
hour, or until tender; drain, and add butter. Pare, boil, and mash 
potatoes, season with pepper and salt, add butter and hot milk, and 
beat until light; shape potato into small nests with a spoon, or force 
through a bag and a rose tube. Fill with onions and sprinkle witxi 
parsley. 



VEGETABLES 31 



Creamed Leeks 

Cut off tops of two bunches of leeks, and soak in cold water ten 
minutes; drain, and cook in boiling salted water about twenty minutes, 
or until tender; drain, and serve with White Sauce. The tops may be 
used for flavoring soups. 

Green Peas (Canned) 

Remove from can and rinse with cold water; put in saucepan, cover 
with cold water, bring to boiling point, and drain. Season with one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, 1 tablespoon butter, 
and two tablespoons of milk. 

Peas and Lettuce 

Ingredients — 1 head lettuce, 1 teaspoon sugar, % cup stock or water, 
1 tablespoon butter, % teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon flour, Va teaspoon 
pepper, 1 can peas, 1 sprig mint. 

Preparation — Wash lettuce, drain, and chop; add stock and salt, and 
simmer half an hour; add pepper and sugar, and thicken with butter 
and flour blended together; add peas drained from their liquor, and 
mint, and simmer ten minutes. Remove mint before serving. 

Carrots Vinaigrette 

Ingredients — 4 cups carrots cut in half-inch cubes, V2 cup vinegar, 
% cup brown sugar, 1 tablespoon shortening. 

Preparation — Cook carrots in boiling salted water until tender, and 
drain; heat vinegar, sugar, and shortening to the boiling point, add 
carrots, and cook slowly half an hour, stirring occasionally. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash potatoes, pare as thin as possible, remove the eyes, and soak 
in cold water from fifteen minutes to one hour, according to the age 
of the potato; cook in boiling salted water about half an hour, or 
until tender, allowing one tablespoon of salt to two quarts of boiling 
water. Drain, and dry on the back of the range or in the front of the 
oven with the door open. Serve very hot in an uncovered dish. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select medium-sized potatoes, scrub well, place in tin pan, and 
bake in a hot oven for about forty minutes. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Ingredients — 2 cups raw potato balls or half-inch cubes, 1 cup 
White Sauce, 1 slice onion, 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

Preparation — Cook potatoes with the onion in boiling salted water 
until tender; drain; remove the onion, mix with sauce, and sprinkle 
with parsley. If potato balls are used, cover unused potato with 
water and save for soup. 

Potato Croutons 

Cut potatoes in one-third-inch cubes, rinse with cold water, dry in 
a towel, and fry about two minutes in deep fat. 



32 VEGETABLES 



French Fried Potatoes 

Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes, cut in eighths lengthwise, 
and soak in cold water for half an hour; drain, dry, and fry in deep 
fat about seven minutes; drain on soft paper, and sprinkle with salt. 
Cook only one layer in the basket at a time. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Melt in the frying pan four tablespoons sausage fat, beef drippings, 
or other fat; add two cups chopped boiled potatoes, season, and cook 
slowly twenty minutes, or until well browned; fold double, and gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Ingredients — 4 boiled potatoes, % teaspoon pepper, V2 teaspoon 
salt, 2 tablespoons sausage fat, 2 slices onion finely chopped. 

Preparation — Cut potatoes in half-inch cubes, and season with salt 
and pepper; put fat in frying pan, add onions, and cook slov/ly for ten 
minutes; add potatoes, stir well, and cook for ten minutes without 
browning. 

Pan-Roasted Potatoes (Franconia) 

Prepare potatoes as for boiling, boil ten minutes, drain, and cook 
in roasting pan with meat about forty minutes; baste often with fat in 
pan. 

Stuffed Potatoes with Nuts and Cheese 

Ingredients — 4 hot baked potatoes, V2 tablespoon butter, % cup nuts 
chopped fine, V2 teaspoon salt, i/4 cup grated cheese, i/4 teaspoon pep- 
per, % cup milk, butter and paprika. 

Preparation — Cut potatoes in halves lengthwise, remove potato, and 
mash; add nuts, cheese, milk, butter, and seasonings, and beat until 
very light; refill shells, heaping mixture in the center, make a slight 
depression with spoon,- put in a small bit of butter, sprinkle with 
paprika, and brown in a hot oven. 

Scalloped Potatoes with Peppers and Cheese 

Ingredients — 1 quart half-inch potato cubes, 2 cups hot milk, */^ 
teaspoon salt, 1 onion chopped, V2 teaspoon paprika, 2 tablespoons 
bacon fat, 2 canned red peppers, 4 tablespoons flour, V2 cup grated 
cheese, V2 cup buttered crumbs. 

Preparation — Cook potatoes and onion in boiling salted water twenty 
minutes, and drain; melt bacon fat, add flour, and blend well; add 
milk and stir until smooth; add salt, paprika, peppers chopped, and 
cheese; mix with potatoes; turn into a greased baking dish, cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake fifteen minutes, or until bro^vn. 

Stuffed Potatoes with Cheese and Bacon 

Ingredients — 4 large potatoes, % teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons grated 
cheese, ^/4 teaspoon paprika, %: cup hot milk, 4 slices bacon. 

Preparation — Wash potatoes and bake in a hot oven forty-five min- 
utes; cut in halves lengthwise, remove potato, and force through 
potato ricer; add cheese, seasonings, and hot milk; beat vigorously, 
and refill potato skins; place half a slice of bacon on top of each, and 
put on the upper grate of a hot oven until bacon is crisp. 



VEGETABLES 33 



Scalloped Potatoes with Cheese 

Wash and pare four potatoes, cut in very thin slices, put half of 
them in a greased baking dish; dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, and two tablespoons grated cheese; repeat; cover with hot 
milk, and bake in a moderate oven one hour, or until potatoes are 
tender. Very old potatoes should not be used in this way. 

French Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes into eighths lengthwise, fry in deep 
fat until brown, drain on soft paper, and sprinkle with salt. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cooked sweet potatoes in one-third-inch slices lengthwise, put 
in a greased dripping pan, brush with melted butter or drippings, 
sprinkle thickly with brown sugar, and bake in a hot oven until 
glazed with melted sugar. 

Sweet Potato Custard 

Ingredients — 3 cooked sweet potatoes, % nutmeg grated, 2 eggs, Vi 
cup brown sugar, % teaspoon salt, 1 quart milk. 

Preparation — Force potatoes through a ricer; beat the eggs and rnix 
vAth. potato; add other ingredients, pour into buttered baking dish 
or cups, and bake in a slow oven until firm. 

Stuffed Sweet Potatoes 

Ingredients — 3 medium-sized baked sweet potatoes, Vs teaspoon 
pepper, 1 tablespoon butter, Vz teaspoon salt, i/4 cup milk, powdered 
sugar. 

Preparation — Cut baked potatoes in halves lengthwise; mash po- 
tatoes, add salt, pepper, butter, and milk, and beat well; fill potato 
shells lightly, sprinkle thickly with sugar, and bake in a hot oven 
until brown. Sliced marshmallows may be used instead of sugar. 

Creamed White Turnips 

Cook two cups of half-inch cubes of white turnip in boiling salted 
water half an hour, or until tender; drain, and mix with one cup of 
White Sauce. 

Spinach 

Pick over spinach, and wash well in several waters; put in kettle 
without water, cover,and cook about half an hour, or until tender; 
chop fine and season with salt, pepper, and butter. A thin slice of 
fat salt pork or a tablespoon of bacon fat may be cooked with spinach 
if preferred. In that case, omit butter. Or cook in ham or corned 
beef stock, drain, and season only with pepper. Garnish v/ith thin 
slices of hard-cooked egg, or sprinkle with the yolk of egg pressed 
through a sieve. 

Baked Winter Squash 

Cut half a small squash into four pieces, scrape out seeds and 
stringy part, put in a pan, shell side up, and bake in a hot oven about 
forty minutes. Remove from shell with a spoon, press through a 
sieve, season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve. Or put in a 
greased baking dish, cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
crumbs are brown. 



34 VEGETABLES 



Creamed Salsify (Oyster Plant) 

Cut off the tops of a bunch of salsify; scrape, cut in quarter-incfe 
slices, and keep white by putting in cold water with a tablespoon of 
vinegar in it until ready to cook; drain; cook in boiling salted water 
about twenty-five minutes, or until tender; drain, and mix with one 
cup of White Sauce. 

Vegetable Hash 

Ingredients — 2 cups cooked cabbage, 1 tablespoon grated onion, 1 cup 
cooked potatoes, Va teaspoon pepper, 1 cup cooked turnips, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 cup cooked beets, 2 tablespoons beef drippings, % cup stock 
or water. 

Preparation — Mix vegetables and seasonings; melt fat in frying 
pan, add vegetables and stock; cook slowly half an hour. Fold, and 
serve on a hot dish. If vegetables are left from a boiled dinner, omit 
salt. 

Baked Tomatoes 

Cut four tomatoes in halves crosswise, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, and cover with buttered crumbs; bake in a hot oven about twenty 
minutes, and serve with Mustard Pickle Sauce, or cooked salad dress- 
ing. 

Tomato Custard 

Ingredients — 1 can tomatoes, 4 cloves, 1 cup water, % bay leaf, 
1*4 teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, % teaspoon pepper, M cup 
cracker dust, 2 slices onion, 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Simmer tomatoes, water, and seasonings for fifteen 
minutes, and press through a sieve; add crumbs and slightly beaten 
eggs, and bake in greased custard cups about twenty minutes, or 
until firm; turn out on platter and pour Cheese Sauce around them. 

Fried Green Tomatoes 

Wipe tomatoes, cut in thick slices, season with salt and pepper, 
dip first in flour, then in egg, then in crumbs, and fry in deep fat until 
brown. Or season, dip in flour only, and saute in butter. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Ingredients — 1 can tomatoes, or 6 ripe tomatoes, % teaspoon pep- 
per, 1/4 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, V2 cup bread crust crumbs. 

Preparation — Put tomatoes in a stew pan; if fresh tomatoes are 
used, scald, peel, and cut in pieces. Add seasonings, except pepper, 
and cook slowly for thirty minutes ; add butter and crumbs just before 
serving. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Select six medium-sized tomatoes; cut a thin slice from the top of 
each, and remove the pulp; rub slices through a sieve, and add to 
pulp; add one cup soft stale bread crumbs, one teaspoon salt, one 
teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, and one tablespoon tomato ketchup; 
mix well, fill tomatoes, cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a 
moderate oven half an hour. 



SAUCES AND STUFFINGS FOR FISH AND MEATS 35 

Plymouth Succotash 

Ingredients — Vz cup dried Lima beans, % teaspoon pepper, corned 
beef stock, % cup corned beef cut in small pieces, y<i. can com. 

Preparation — Soak beans over night, drain, cover with cold water, 
and cook one hour; drain, cover with stock and cook until tender; add 
com, pepper, and meat, and simmer ten minutes. Add salt if neces- 
sary. Any stock or left-over bits of meat may be used. 



SAUCES AND STUFFINGS FOR FISH AND MEATS 

Anchovy Sauce 

Add to Drawn Butter one and one-half teaspoons of anchovy paste 
and one tablespoon of lemon juice. 

Banana Sauce 

Ingredients — 2 bananas, few grains cayenne, 1 tablespoon butter, 
few grains salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce, 
juice of y^ lemon, 1 teaspoon horseradish. 

Preparation — Peel and scrape bananas, and force through coarse 
sieve; melt butter, add sugar, lemon juice, seasonings, and bananas; 
stir until hot, and serve with cold roast beef. 

Bechamel Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 cup white stock, 1 tablespoon shortening, 1 slice 
onion, 2% tablespoons flour, 1 slice carrot, Vz teaspoon salt, sprig 
parsley, few grains cayenne, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Preparation — Simmer stock, onion, carrot, and parsley fifteen min- 
utes, and strain; melt shortening, add flour, and blend well; add stock 
and seasoning, and stir until smooth; add butter just before serving. 

Black Butter 

Ingredients — % cup butter, i/4 teaspoon Worcestershire or Brand's 
Al sauce, 2 tablespoons vinegar, ^4 teaspoon onion juice. 

Preparation — Cook butter until brovsm, but do not burn; simmer 
vinegar, onion juice, and sauce five minutes, and add to butter. Serve 
with cauliflower, celery, fried eggs, or fish. A tablespoon of chopped 
capers or parsley may be added. 

Brown Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 cup brown stock, 2 cloves, 1 slice onion chopped, ^/4 
teaspoon salt, 1 slice carrot chopped, V% teaspoon pepper, 1 sprig 
parsley, X^k tablespoons butter, IV^ tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Simmer stock, vegetables, and seasonings for fifteen 
minutes, and strain; brown the butter, add flour, and brown; add 
stock, and beat until smooth. Any stock may be colored with a few 
drops of kitchen bouquet, and used; or beef cubes or extract may be 
used with water instead of stock, but in that case less salt and pepper 
should be used. 



36 SAUCES AND STUFFINGS FOR FISH AND MEATS 

Bread Sauce 

Ingredients — l^^ cnps milk, sprig of parsley, % onion, 14, teaspoon 
paprika, 2 cloves, V2 teaspoon salt, bit of bay leaf, % cup soft bread 
crumbs. 

Preparation — Scald milk and seasonings, except salt, in double boiler 
half an hour, strain, add salt and soft crumbs, and simmer ten 
minutes. 

Caper Sauce 

To recipe for Drawn Butter add one-fourth cup of capars. 

Celery Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 cup celery chopped, Vs teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon 
grated onion, V2 cup milk, 1 cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon butter, % 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons fiour. 

Preparation — Simmer celery, onion, water, and salt for half an 
hour; add pepper and milk, and thicken with butter and flour creamed 
together. 

Cheese Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon butter, % cup cheese cut fine, 1% table- 
spoons floui', % teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk, % teaspoon mustard, Vi 
teaspoon paprika. 

Preparation — Melt butter, add flour, and blend well; add milk and 
stir until smooth; add cheese and seasonings, and stir until cheese is 
melted. 

Cheese Sauce with Chives 

Follov/ directions for Cheese Sauce, and just before serving add one 
tablespoon of finely chopped chives. Serve with any vv^hite fish or 
with plain omelet. 

Croquette Sauce 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoons shortening, 1 cup milk, % cup bread 
flour, M teaspoon salt, ^s teaspoon pepper. 

Preparation — Proceed as for White Sauce. Stock may be xised in 
place of milk, and the seasonings may be varied according to the cro- 
quette material, using- a fev,- drops of onion juice, a dash of nutmeg, 
cayenne, paprika, or a sniail quantity of table sauce or ketchup. 

Creole Sauce 

Ingredients — V^ <an tomatoes, 1 green pepppr, 2 tablespoons bacon 
fat, 1 tablespoon Hour, Vz onion, \i teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Wor- 
cestershire sauce. 

Preparattion — Cook tomatoes until reduced to one cup; peel and 
finely chop onion; remove seeds and veins from pepper, chop and 
cook with onion in bacon fat for ten minutes; add flour, salt, and Wor- 
cestershire sauce, and stir well; add tomato, and simmer five minutes. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Pare and grate two small cucumbers, drain, and season with salt, 
pepper, and vinegar. Serve with fisli. 



SAUCES AND STUFFINGS FOR FISH AND MEATS 37 

Cider Sauce 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons bacon fat, ^^4 teaspoon paprika, 2 table- 
spoons flour, % teaspoon salt, 1 cup cider, % teaspoon mustard. 

Preparation — Blend bacon fat and flour, add cider, and stir until 
boiling point is reached; add seasonings and simmer one-half hour. 
Serve with roast pork or ham. 

Drawn Butter 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons butter, M teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
flour, Vs teaspoon pepper, 1 cup hot v/ater, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Preparation — Cook butter until it bubbles, stir in flour, add hot 
water, salt, and pepper, and beat until smooth; add butter in small 
pieces just before serving. 

Egg Sauce 

Add to Drawn Butter or White Sauce one hard-cooked egg coarsely 
chopped. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Ingredients — 1/4 cup butter, few grains cayenne, 1 tablespoon flour, 
1/2 cup hot water, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 egg yolk, 1 tablespoon lemon 
juice. 

Preparation — Cream half of butter Vv^ith flour, salt, and cayenne; 
add hot water, and cook over hot water for ten minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until thickened; add egg yolk slightly beaten, lemon juice, and 
remainder of butter; cook about two minutes, or until thick; beat well, 
and serve at once. 

Horseradish Sauce 

To recipe for Bread Sauce add one-third cup grated horseradish and 
the juice of half a lemon. 

Mint Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 bunch mint, 2 tablespoons sugar, V4, cup boiling 
water, M teaspoon salt, Vi cup vinegar, few grains cayenne. 

Preparation — Wash and dry mint, pick leaves, and chop very fine, 
add other ingredients, put on back of range, and keep warm for half 
an hour. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Wash six mushroom caps, cut in small pieces, and simmer with one 
teaspoon of butter for ten minutes. Add to recipe for Brown Sauce, 
or to recipe for White Sauce. If the mushrooms are fresh and tender 
the stems may be used also. 

Mustard Pickle Sauce 

To Drawn Butter add two tablespoons of mixed mustard pickles 
chopped. 

Orange Mint Sauce 

Ingredients — V^ cup vinegar, Vi teaspoon orange rind, i/4 cup orange 
juice, 1 tablespoon sugar, i/4 cup mint leaves chopped. 

Preparation — Let stand on back of range for half an hour, and 
serve cold. 



38 SAUCES AND STUFFINGS FOR FISH AND MEATS 

Soubise Sauce 

Follow recipe for White Sauce, and add one-fourth cup of stock, 
and three onions which have been cooked until tender in boiling salted 
water and then drained and chopped. 

White Sauce 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons shortening, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1/4 teaspoon salt, ^^ teaspoon pepper. 

Preparation — Melt shortening, add flour, and stir until well blended; 
add milk and seasonings, and beat with wire whisk until smooth. 
For a thin sauce, use one and one-half tablespoons flour. 

Bread Stuffing 

Ingredients — 1/4 cup beef drippings or bacon fat, % teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon grated onion, i/i teaspoon pepper, 2 cups soft stale bread 
crumbs, 2 teaspoons poultry seasoning, % cup boiling water. 

Preparation — Melt fat in the frying pan, add onion and crumbs, 
and stir until crumbs begin to brown; add seasonings and boiling 
water; cool slightly before using. 

Sharp Sauce 

Ingredients — 1% cups vinegar, % teaspoon paprika, 1 tart apple 
chopped fine, 1% teaspoons Worcestershire sauce, 1 onion chopped 
fine; 1% cups brown sugar, i/4 teaspoon salt, IY2 teaspoons cornstarch. 

Preparation — Heat vinegar, add apple, onion, and seasonings; when 
boiling stir in the sugar and cornstarch mixed together; cook fifteen 
minutes. Serve cold with ham or pork. 

Crust Stuffing 

Ingredients — 3 cups bread crusts broken and dried in oven, 1 cup 
boiling water, Vz teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon grated onion, % cup 
sausage fat, % teaspoon pepper, 1 tablespoon poultry seasoning. 

Preparation — Put crusts in a bowl, add salt, sausage fat, and boiling 
water; let stand ten minutes; mix well, and add seasonings. 

Fish Stuffing (Bread) 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons shortening, Vs teaspoon pepper, 1 cup 
soft stale bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon grated onion, % teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon chopped pickles, Vi cup 
boiling water. 

Preparation — Melt shortening, add crumbs, and stir until crumbs 
are golden brown, then add seasonings and water. The pickles may 
be omitted, or capers may be used in place of them. 

Peanut Stuffing 

Ingredients — 1 cup dried bread crumbs, % cup shelled peanuts, % 
cup boiling water, V2 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons bacon fat, ^4 tea- 
spoon paprika, 1 teaspoon grated onion. 

Preparation — Mix bread crumbs with boiling water and bacon fat, 
add peanuts finely chopped, and seasonings. 



POULTRY 39 

Sauce Tartare 

To one cup Mayonnaise Dressing add three tablespoons finely 
chopped mixed pickles and one tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

Tomato Sauce 

Ingredients — 1% cups tomatoes, 1 teaspoon sugar, ^ cup hot water, 
"^k teaspoon salt, 1 slice onion, i/4 teaspoon paprika, 1 clove, 2 table- 
spoons bacon fat, 4 tablespoons flour. 

Preparation — Simmer tomatoes, water, and seasoning for fifteen 
minutes, and press through a sieve; thicken with bacon fat and flour 
blended together, and cook five minutes. If tomatoes are very acid, 
add pinch of soda. 

Sauce for Roast Pork or Goose 

Pour off most of fat in the pan, leaving two tablespoons; add three 
tablespoons of flour and one and a half cups of boiling water, and 
stir until smooth. Season with one-third teaspoon salt and one tea- 
spoon each of mixed mustard, vinegar and Brand's Al sauce. 



POULTRY 

For market, dry picking is the best way — that is, pulling out the 
feathers immediately after killing, while the poultry is still warm, but 
for home consumption, the s-calding method is quicker and easier. 
After killing dip in scalding hot water and move above for a few 
minutes, then pick as quickly as possible. Ducks should be scalded 
a little longer and then wrapped in canvas or any close cloth, to 
steam about 5 to 10 minutes, after which the feathers can be easily 
pulled. The hairs should be singed off by holding and turning the 
poultry in the flames of a lighted twist of paper, or some burning 
alcohol. Wash thoroughly and dry, and then lay on several folds of 
paper, and clean at once. The quicker poultry is cleaned, the better, 
but it is best not to cook it until 24 hours after killing. 

After singeing, and before drawing, pull out all pin feathers, then 
cut off the head, and next cut through the skin around each leg, about 
Wt. inches below the first leg joint, being careful not to cut tendons. 
Place the leg with the cut over the edge of a table, press downward 
to snap the bone, then take the foot in the right hand, holding the 
bird firmly in the left hand, and pull off the foot, and with it the 
tendons. Make a lengthwise cut through the skin just below the 
breast bone, large enough to admit the hand, and remove the entrails 
entire, by first carefuly loosening them all around, and then bringing 
the hand forward, grasping the entrails firmly, and with one pull 
drawing them out. The lungs and kidneys, on either side of the back- 
bone, should next be removed, and then the wind-pipe and crop, close 
to the skin of the breast, by inserting two fingers under the neck 
skin. Draw down the skin and cut the neck off close to the body, 
leaving on enough skin to close up the opening after the crop is partly 
filled with a little dressing. The giblets (gizzard, heart and liver) 
should next be carefuly separated from the entrails, being careful not 
to break the gall bag attached to the liver, the bile from which would 
impart an extremely bitter flavor to any parts it came in contact with. 
Then wash the bird thoroughly in and outside, rub with salt, and let 
hang in a cool place over night. 



40 POULTRY 



Steamed Fowl 

Dress a 5 or 6 lb. chicken, wash and dry thoroughly, and rub with 
salt and pepper, in and outside. Place an onion and a bay leaf inside, 
and put the fowl into shape the same as for roasting. Sprinkle a 
clean towel with flour, wrap it about the fowl, pinning closely, and 
then place it, back down, in a steamer, and steam continuously 2 or 3 
hours, according to its age and size. Serve with currant or cran- 
berry jelly. 

Fried Chicken 

Dress a young chicken, cut off the legs, wings and neck, and then 
cut down the back bone, and press the body open, breaking the breast 
bone by pounding lightly. Boil the legs, wings, and giblets in water 
enough to cover, and when tender add salt and pepper to taste, and 
1 tablesp flour mixed with 1 tablesp butter. This will answer as a 
dressing for the fried chicken. Dip the body of the chicken in corn 
meal and fry brown in hot drippings. 

Pickled Chicken 

This is a nice way to prepare old and tough chicken. Clean and 
joint and soak in cold salted water several hours, then put on with 
fresh water and salt, 2 or 3 sliced onions, 2 or 3 bay leaves, Vz doz 
whole allspice, and when nearly done add enough vinegar to make 
it quite sour to taste. Let boil until done, then pour into a crock. 
There should be enough liquid to cover the fowl. Let stand over night. 
When cold the liquid will be jellied. 

Scalloped CMcken 

Dress and joint the chicken, sprinkle with pepper and salt and 
place in a pan with butter size of an egg, and milk to cover. Bake 
tintil tender. If the milk boils away add more milk, or hot water. 
Thicken the milk gravy with a little flour Just before serving. 

Smothered CMcken 

Dress and joint a young chicken, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
roll in fiour or corn meal, place the pieces closely in a bread pan, 
half cover with cold water or milk, and if the chicken is not very fat 
add lumps of butter or some thick slices of fat bacon. Bake until 
done. When one side is brown, turn to brown on the other side, and 
when nearly done put a 2-inch square of biscuit dough on top of each 
piece of chicken, return to the oven, and bake until a nice brown. 
Vv'hen done, remove the chicken with crust to a hot platter, add 1 cup 
rich cream to the liquor in the pan, thicken with a little flour, let 
boil up, and serve with the chicken. 

Pressed or Potted Chicken 

Dress and joint a chicken, and boil in water enough to cover, until 
the meat slips from the bones. Drain off the liquor, remove the bones, 
and cut the meat in small pieces, but do not chop fine, and season 
with salt and pepper. Boil the broth down to 1 pt, put a layer of 
meat in a mold v/ith some slices of hard-boiled eggs, then more 
chicken and eggs, seasoning to taste, then pour in the broth, and set 
away to get cold. Another way instead of boiling down the broth, is 
to thicken it with bread crumbs, or 1 tablesp clear gelatine dissolved 
in a little hot water. 



POULTRY 41 

Chicken Fricassee 

Dress and joint a chicken, and let it simmer slowly, closely covered, 
in 1 qt hot water, with 2 stalks celerJ^ 1 bay leaf, 1 slice of onion, 
salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of curry. When the chicken is 
tender, remove from the liquid and place on a hot platter. Stir into 
the liquid 1 beaten egg, V2 cup cream, or 1 tablesp butter, and 1 
tablesp flour, and let boil up, then pour over the chicken and serve 
hot. The platter may be garnished with a border of hot mashed pota- 
toes, and edged with parsley. 

ChJeken Soup yvith Dumplings 

Dress and cup up a chicken, and put on to boil in plenty of cold 
water, adding salt to taste. Let boil long and slowly, and about one 
hour before serving add 1 pt carrots, peeled and sliced fine, and V2 
hour later 1 qt potatoes, peeled and sliced also, an onion, if liked, and 
Vi hour later dumplings made as follows. Put V2 cup butter in a 
frying pan and when hot add V2 cup flour, and let cook about 10 
minutes, stirring vigorously, but do not let it brown. Then add some 
of the chicken broth, a little at a time, to convert the mass into a 
smooth ball which will free entirely from the pan. Remove from the 
fire, and when cool add 1 to 2 beaten eggs, and mix well. Drop into 
the boiling soup by spoonsful and boil steadily about 15 or 20 minutes. 

Hot Tamales 
Boil a chicken until very tender, remove bones and chop meat fine. 
To each lb meat add 1 medium sized tomato and onion chopped fine, 
salt and red pepper to taste, and moisten to the consistency of mush 
with the chicken broth. Heat the remainder of the liquor to boiling, 
stir in cornnieal to make a little stiff er than ordinary mush, and 
cook thoroughly. Take nice, fresh corn husks and soak in warm water 
until soft. Then spread a iialf-inch layer of mush on each husk, and 
put a good spoonful of the meat mixture on that, and roll up so that 
the meat is covered by the mush and the whole is nicely wrapped 
in the husks. Turn in the ends and tie tightly with twine, and steam 
Vz hour. Serve in the husks. Nice tamales can be made in the same 
way with either fresh beef or fresh pork. The neck of beef is best, 
as it has the right proportion of fat and lean, and the shoulder of 
pork is good, adding a little more fat to it. 

Boast Turkey 

Having properly dressed and stuffed the turkey, rub entire surface 
with salt, spread breast, wings and legs with butter, rubbed until 
creamy and mixed with flour, and dredge bottom of pan with flour. 
Place in hot oven, and when flour on turkey begins to brown, reduce 
heat, baste with fat in pan, and add 2 cups boiling water. Continue 
tasting every 15 minutes until turkey is cooked, which will require 
about 3 hours for a 10-lb. turkey. For basting, use Vz cup butter 
melted in V2 cup boiling water in which the giblets were cooked, 
and after this is used baste with fat in pan. During cooking, turn 
turkey frequently, that it may brown evenly. To prepare gravy: As 
soon as turkey is removed from pan pour off liquid, from which skim 
6 tablesp fat, return fat to pan, brown with 1 or 2 tablesp flour, and 
pour on gradually the remaining liquor, to which the giblets, finely 
chopped, have been added, and cook 5 minutes. Remove string and 
skp-'-ftrs from turkey, and garnish with parsley or celery tips before 
serving. 



42 POULTRY 



Chicken Pie 

Use the remnants of cold roast or fricasseed fowl. If roast fowl is 
used, make stock by covering bones and left-over gravy with cold 
water and simmering an hour or more; to three cups of stock add 
one-half onion chopped, two potatoes cut in half-inch cubes, one tea- 
spoon salt, and one-eighth teaspoon pepper, and boil fifteen minutes; 
thicken with one-half cup of flour mixed to a paste with cold water; 
put chicken in a baking dish, add stock and potato, and cover with 
small biscuit made by Baking Powder Biscuit or Shortcake Recipes. 
Bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes or until biscuit are done. 
If the amount of chicken is scant add one or two hard-cooked eggs 
sliced. 

Boil'ed or Eoasted Duck 

A delicious flavor is imparted to boiled duck by boiling with it 1 
large onion, 1 tablesp vinegar, and about Vz teasp sage, besides salt 
and pepper. When tender, remove the duck, boil down the liquor, skim 
off the fat, thicken with a little flour browned in a pan with some 
butter, return the duck to the gravy, and let simmer a few minutes. 
To roast, if the duck is very fat or old, parboil it first, with a pinch 
of baking soda, then stuff with any preferred dressing, (the English 
use raisins, prunes or apples in the dressing), pin a few thin slices of 
salt pork across the breast with wooden toothpicks, and baste often. 
Onion, sage and salt pork combine very nicely with the duck flavor. 
Another nice way is to joint, season with salt, pepper and sage, roll in 
flour, and put in layers in a small pan, with minced onion and bits 
of butter between, ending with a layer of onions, bread crumbs and 
butter. Then fill the pan half full with water or milk, cover closely, 
and bake about 2 hours, removing the upper pan during the last Vz 
hour, to brown nicely. 

Roast Fowl 
Clean and singe a five-pound fowl; stuff with Bread Stuffing, truss, 
place on a trivet in a pan suited to the size of the fowl, dredge with flour, 
cover with thin slices of fat salt pork and bake in a slow oven three 
hours, basting every fifteen minutes. Put into the pan the chicken 
fat (which was removed when cleaning) and use for basting. Dredge 
with flour twice while cooking. Cook the giblets in boiling water one 
hour and chop fine; make a gravy in the pan, allowing four table- 
spoons each of fat and flour and the water in which giblets were 
cooked, with enough boiling water added to make two cups; season 
with salt and pepper and add the giblets. If cooked slowly and 
basted often, a fowl will be as tender as a chicken. 

Brown Fricassee of Fowl 
Clean, singe and cut up a four-pound fowl, place in a kettle, cover 
with boiling water, add one whole onion and one carrot cut in halves, 
and cook slowly for three hours, or until tender; add two teaspoons of 
salt when half cooked; remove fowl, season with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour and brown in one-quarter of a pound of fat salt 
pork tried out in the frying pan. Remove fowl to platter and make 
a sauce in the pan with four tablespoons of fat, five tablespoons of 
flour browned together and two cups of stock. Pour over the fowl 
and garnish with toast points or small, thin baking powder biscuit. 
The remander of the stock may be used for soup or sauce, oi for 
Celery Toast. 



EGGS 43 

Boast Goose 

Dress and wash theroughly, and half fill with a dressing prepared 
as follows: Boil and chop flue 1 doz onions and mix well with an 
equal quantity of bread crumbs; add 1 tasp sage, salt, and 1 level 
tasp pepper. Bake in a hot oven, basting frequently. "When done 
skim the fat from the gravy in the pan, add the liquid from the 
boiled giblets, and also the giblets chopped fine, thicken with a little 
flour, and season to taste. Serve goose with apple sauce. A very nice 
dressing for goose is boiled sauerkraut, seasoned with pepper. 

Fried Gninea-Hen 

Select a nice, fat guinea-hen weighing about 3 lbs., clean and wash 
thoroughly in cold water, and put in a kettle over the fire with 
scarcely enough cold water to cover, adding 1 teasp salt and 1 tablesp 
vinegar, after the hen has boiled 1 hour. When tender joint and cut 
in pieces of convenient size, and fry brown on both sides in butter. 
Remove from the frying pan and platter, add 1 cup thick sweet cream 
to the gravy in the pan, season to taste, let boil up, and serve. 

Potted Pigeons 

Ingredients — 4 pigeons, 1 cup celery tops, Bread Stuffing, % tea- 
spoon salt, 4 tablespoons bacon fat, % teaspoon pepper, % onion 
sliced, 2 cups boiling water, % carrot sliced, 3 tablespoons flour, 4 
tablespoons cold water. 

Preparation — Clean pigeons, wipe dry, stuff, and truss neatly into 
shape. Brown in hot bacon fat in the frying tpan and place in a 
casserole dish or bean pot; add vegetables, seasonings and boiling 
water. Cover and bake in a slow oven three hours. Remove pigeons 
to serving dish, thicken the stock with the flour mixed to a paste 
with cold water; cook ten minutes, strain and pour over pigeons. The 
giblets may be cooked in boiling salted water about ten minutes, 
chopped and added to the sauce. 



EGGS 

Boiled Eggs 

For a soft-boiled egg, place egg in rapidly boiling water and boil 
from three to five minutes. For hard-boiled eggs, place in rapidly 
boiling water and boil twenty minutes, or cover with boiling water 
and cook in the double boiler one hour. For a soft-cooked egg, not 
boiled, place egg in a small saucepan of boiling water, cover, and let 
stand on back of range from six to eight minutes, when the albumen 
should be evenly coagulated throughout. The time for cooking in this 
way will depend upon the number of eggs to be cooked, the size of 
the saucepan, and the amount of boiling water. For uniform results, 
use medium-sized eggs, cook in the same pan, and measure the quan- 
tity of water each time. Thus you can find the exact time required to 
cook the eggs as desired. 

Shirred Eggs with Potato and Ham 

See recipe for Baked Ham and Potato. 



44 EGGS 

Creamy Eggs on Toast 

Ingredients — 4 eggs, 2 cups hot milk, % teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
butter, % teaspoon pepper, 4 slices toast. 

Preparation — Beat eggs slightly, add salt and pepper, and stir into 
the hot milk; cook over hot water, stirring constantly until mixture is 
thick and creamy. Add butter, and serve on toast. 

Creole Eggs 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon butter, 2 cups tomato, 1 tablespoon 
chopped onion, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon chopped green pepper, 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons cheese. 

Preparation — Cook onion and pepper in butter for five minutes; 
add tomato and seasonings, and w^hen thoroughly heated add the eggs 
unbeaten; pick up with a fork until eggs are nearly cooked; add 
cheese, and cook about one minute. Serve on toast, or with a border 
of boiled rice. 

Eggs with Cheese and Spaghetti 

Ingredients — 2% tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, 4 tablespoons flour, V2 teaspoon onion juice, 2 cups hot milk, V2 
cup cheese cut fine, % teaspoon paprika, 1 cup cooked spaghetti, 
Vz teaspoon salt, 3 hard-cooked eggs sliced. 

Preparation — Melt butter, add flour; when well blended add milk 
(gradually and stir until smooth; add seasonings and cheese, and stir 
until cheese melts; add epaghetti and eggs, cook two minutes, and 
serve on toast or crackers. 

Eggs vfith Ham and Tomato 

Ingredients — V2 can tomatoes, V2 cup chopped cooked ham, 1 slice 
onion, 3 beaten eggs, 4 cloves, Vs teaspoon pepper, 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Cook tomatoes, onion, and cloves fifteen minutes, 
and rub through a sieve; add ham, eggs, and seasonings, and cook 
three or four minutes, stirring all the time. Serve on toast or 
crackers. 

Bread Omelet 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons bacon fat, % cup hot milk, % cup soft 
stale bread crumbs, V2 teaspoon salt, ^^ teaspoon paprika, 3 eggs. 

Preparation — Melt fat in frying pan, add bread crumbs, and stir 
until crumbs begin to brown; add liot milk, and let stand five minutes; 
add salt and paprika, and the yolks beaten until thick and light; fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites, pour into a hot greased omelet pan, and 
cook the same as Light Omelet. 

Ham Omelet 

Ingredients — V2 cup stale bread crumbs, % teaspoon salt, V2 cup 
hot milk, % teaspoon pepper, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, % cup 
cooked ham finely chopped. 

Preparation — Mix crumbs, milk, butter, and seasonings, and let 
stand five minutes; add egg yolks beaten until thick and light; add the 
meat, and fold in the whites of eggs beaten stiff; pour into a hot 
greased omelet pan and cook slowly until firm; fold, and serve at 
once. A white sauce or tomato sauce may be served around it. A 
few pieces of cooked bacon chopped fine may be used instead of ham. 



EGGS 45 

French Omelet 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon butter or bacon fat, % teaspoon salt, 4 
eggs, Vs teaspoon pepper, Vs cup hot water. 

Preparation — Heat fat in the omelet pan; beat the eggs until yolks 
and whites are well mixed, but not light; add seasonings and hot 
water, pour into hot pan and cook slowly; pick up with fork while 
cooking, letting the uncooked mixture run into the place of the cooked; 
when firm and lightly browned, fold double, and serve plain on a hot 
platter; or spread before folding with left-over bits of meat chopped, 
such as ham, bacon, or sausage, or with grated cheese or jelly. 

French Cheese Omelet 

Ingredients — 4 eggs slightly beaten, % teaspoon pepper, V2 tea- 
spoon salt, V2 cup hot water, Vz cup grated cheese. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, pour into a hot greased omelet 
pan; as mixture thickens, pick up with a fork, letting the uncooked 
part take the place of the cooked; when firm, fold and serve on a hot 
platter. 

Creamy Omelet 

Ingredients — 3 eggs, Vs teaspoon salt, 1 cup White Sauce, % tea- 
spoon pepper. 

Preparation — Beat yolks until thick and light; add to sauce and mix 
well; add salt and pepper to whites of eggs, beat until stiff and dry, 
and fold into sauce; pour into a hot greased omelet pan, and cook 
slowly until well risen and firm; put on oven grate for a minute or 
two to dry the top; fold, and turn on a hot platter. 

Light Omelet 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon bacon fat, % teaspoon pepper, yolks of 
4 eggs, % cup hot water, V2 teaspoon salt, whites of 4 eggs. 

Preparation — Put fat in omelet pan; beat yolks until light and thick, 
add seasonings and hot water; fold in the stiffly beaten whites, and 
pour into hot omelet pan; cook slowly until well risen and firm, or 
about twelve minutes, placing the pan on the upper grate in the oven 
for the last two minutes. When firm in the center, fold double, turn 
on a hot platter, and serve at once, either plain or with sauce. The 
omelet must be cooked slowly so that it will be firm throughout and 
not fall. 

White Sauce, either plain or with bits of cold meat, oysters, peas, 
or other left-over vegetables, or Brown Sauce with a few mushrooms 
or chopped kidneys, or almost any savory sauce, improves an omelet, 
and also makes it go further. 

Salmon Omelet 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons flour, Vz cup milk, 
Vz teaspoon salt, Vz can salmon, 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Melt butter, stir in flour, add milk, and stir until 
smooth; add salt; rinse salmon with hot water; flake, and add to 
sauce; beat yolks of eggs until light and thick, and add to sauce; fold 
in whites of eggs beaten very stiff. Pour into a hot greased omelet 
pan, and cook slowly until well risen and firm; finish cooking on top 
grate of oven for a minute or two; fold, and served on a hot platter. 



46 EGGS 

Scalloped Eggs with Cheese 

Ingredients — 4 hard-cooked eggs, 2 cups White Sauce, % cup cheese 
cut fine, % cup buttered crumbs. 

Preparation — Cut eggs in eighths lengthwise; put half of them into 
a greased baking dish, cover with half of sauce, and sprinkle with half 
of cheese; repeat; cover with crumbs, and bake about fifteen minutes, 
or until crumbs are brovra. Bacon or sausage fat may be used in 
making the white sauce. 

Scrambled Eggs with Sausages 

Ingredients — 4 small sausages, 3 eggs, V4, teaspoon salt, % cup 
water. 

Preparation — Cut sausages in half-inch bias pieces, and cook in a 
frying pan until brown; beat eggs until light, add salt and water, 
pour over sausages, and scramble until firm. Garnish with toast 
points and parsley. 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato 

Ingredients — V2 can condensed tomato soup, % teaspoon soda, 4 
eggs slightly beaten, 6 slices buttered toast. 

Preparation — Heat soup in an omelet pan; add soda, and stir while 
foaming; add eggs, scramble slowly with a fork until firm, and serve 
on toast. Garnish with toast point. 

Shirred Eggs 

Grease individual egg shirrers or a platter which can be put in 
oven; cover bottom of dish with white sauce or left-over gravy, 
sprinkle with left-over vegetables or bits of meat chopped; carefully 
break an egg into dish for each person, dust with salt and pepper; 
sprinkle with buttered crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven until egg 
is set. 

Shirred Eggs with Ham 

Ingredients — 1 cup finely chopped cooked ham, 1 cup soft bread 
crumbs, V2 cup milk, % cup buttered crumbs, 4 eggs. Salt and 
pepper. 

Preparation — Mix ham, soft crumbs, and milk, and spread in four 
buttered egg shirrers; make a hollow in the middle, break an egg into 
it, season lightly with salt and pepper, cover with buttered crumbs, 
and bake until egg is set. 

Scuffled Egg with Ham Toast 

For each person cut a round of bread three inches in diameter; 
spread with finely chopped ham moistened vdth milk, stock, or gravy; 
add a few grains of salt to the white of an egg, and beat very stiff; 
mound on ham, make a depression in the center, put in the yolk, dust 
lightly vnth salt and pepper, and bake in a moderate oven until egg 
is firm. When several pieces of toast are to be made, keep the yolks 
in separate dishes until needed, but beat the whites together. 



CHEESE AND NUTS 47 



CHEESE AND NUTS 

Cheese Croustades 

Ingredients — ll^ cups cheese cut fine, Vi teaspoon paprika, ^4 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Brand's Al sauce, Vi teaspoon mustard, 3 table- 
spoons milk or cream. 

Preparation — Mix in order given; fill Croustades, and put in a hot 
oven until cheese melts. Serve immediately, before cheese toughens. 

Cheese Custard 

Ingredients — 1 cup soft bread crumbs, V^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup cheese 
cut fine, Vs teaspoon soda, Vi teaspoon mustard, 1 egg slightly beaten, 
V2 teaspoon paprika, 1 cup hot milk. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, turn into a greased baking dish, 
and bake in a slow oven twenty-five minutes. 

Cheese Fondue 

Ingredients — V^ cup dried bread crumbs, V3 teaspoon paprika, % 
cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 tablespoon butter, V2 cup 
milk, 1 cup cheese cut fine, yolks of two eggs, % teaspoon salt, whites 
of two eggs. 

Preparation — Mix in the order given, beating the yolks until thick 
and light, and the whites until very stiff; pour into a greased baking 
dish, bake twenty-five minutes in a slow oven, and serve at once. 

Cottage Cheese 

Ingredients — 1 quart thick sour milk, V2 tablespoon soft butter, 1 
quart boiling water, Vs teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Put milk in a large bowl, add boiling water, and let 
stand five minutes; pour into cheesecloth bag, and drain over night 
or for several hours. Mix cheese with butter and salt, press into a 
small bowl, and chill. A sweet red pepper (canned) may be pressed 
through a sieve and mixed with cheese. 

Baked Rice with Cheese 

Ingredients — 2 cups cooked rice, Vs teaspoon salt, % cup grated 
cheese, % teaspoon pepper, % cup hot milk. 

Preparation — Arrange rice and cheese in layers in a greased bak- 
ing dish; sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with milk, and bake in 
a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 

Cheese Paste 

Ingredients — Vz pound American cheese, 2 teaspoons Worcestershire 
sauce, 1 cake cream cheese; ^4 teaspoon salt, 2 pimientos, i/4 cup 
cream. 

Preparation — Chop American cheese and pimientos, using the finest 
cutter in the food chopper; add cream cheese and seasonings, and 
blend with cream until smooth. 



48 CHEESE AND NUTS 



Crackers and Cheese Baked in Milk 

Split butter crackers, spread with butter and grated cheese, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, put in a buttered baking dish, cover with milk, 
and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Scalloped Toast and Cheese 

Ingredients — 4 slices of toast, 1 egg beaten, 1 cup cheese cut fine, 
*y4 teaspoon salt, l^a cups milk, Vi teaspoon mustard. 

Preparation — Butter toast, cut each slice into four pieces, and 
arrange in a baking dish in layers sprinkled with cheese; mix milk, 
egg, and seasonings, pour over toast, and let stand fifteen minutes. 
Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. 

Tomato Rarebit 

Ingredients — 1 can condensed tomato soup, Vz cup soft bread 
crumbs, % pound cheese cut fine, ^4 teaspoon mustard. 

Preparation — Heat soup, add bread crumbs, cheese, and mustard; 
stir until cheese melts, and serve on toast or crackers, 

Welsh Rarebit 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon butter, i/4 teaspoon paprika, 1 table- 
spoon flour, % teaspoon salt, 1 cup hot milk, Vs teaspoon soda, % 
pound cheese cut fine, dash of cayenne, Vz teaspoon mustard, 1 beaten 
egg. 

Preparation — Melt butter, add flour, and when well mixed add milk, 
and stir until smooth; add cheese and seasonings, and cook until 
cheese is melted; add egg, cook two or three minutes, and serve on 
hot toast or crisp pilot crackers. The egg may be omitted. 

Salted Almonds 

Ingredients — 1 cup almonds (shelled), 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tea- 
spoon salt. 

Preparation — Cover almonds with boiling water and let stand on 
back of range for ten minutes; slip off the skins, and dry for several 
hours, or over night; melt butter, add almonds and salt, and mix well; 
spread in a dripping pan, and bake in a slow oven fifteen or twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. When prepared in this way nuts will 
keep crisp. 

Celery, Nut, and Potato Loaf 

Ingredients — 2 cups celery cut in half-inch pieces, 2 tablespoons 
butter, % cup chopped nut meats, 1 egg slightly beaten, 2 cups hot 
mashed potato, 1 teaspoon salt, Vz teaspoon paprika, 1 teaspoon grated 
onion. 

Preparation — Cook celery in boiling salted water about half an 
hour, or until tender, and drain; add other ingredients in order given; 
mix well; pack in deep greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven 
about half an hour. Turn out on platter, and serve with Creole Sauce 
or Tomato Sauce. 

To Shell Chestnuts 

Cover with boiling water, boil ten minutes, drain, and cover with 
cold water. Remove the shell with a knife, beginning at top of nut. 
The inner skin will come off with the shell. 



CEREALS, MACARONI AND RICE 49 



Peanut Butter 

Ingredients — 2 quarts lightly roasted peanuts, 1 teaspoon salt, 
cream or melted butter. 

Preparation — Remove shells and skins of peanuts, and put through 
the food chopper twice, using first a coarse cutter, and then the finest 
cutter; add salt, and enough cream or melted butter to make a smooth 
paste. 

. Baked Chestnuts 

Ingredients — 1 pint chestnuts, 1 tablespoon butter, 1% cups hot ham 
stock, Vs teaspoon pepper. 

Preparation — Shell chestnuts, put in baking dish with stock, butter, 
and pepper; cover, and bake in hot oven about half an hour, or until 
soft; remove cover, and brown. If stock is very salty, dilute with 
water or milk. 

Nut Loaf 

Ingredients — 2 cups soft stale bread crumbs, % teaspoon poultry 
seasoning, 1 cup nut meats finely chopped, V^ teaspoon paprika, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 egg slightly beaten, 3 tablespoons sausage fat or 
butter, V2 cup boiling water. 

Preparation — Mix in order given; pack in a deep greased pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven half an hour. Turn out on platter, and 
serve with Cheese Sauce. 



CEREALS, MACARONI AND RICE 

Corn Meal Mush 

Ingredients — SV2 cups boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup fine 
corn meal. 

Preparation — Add meal to boiling salted water by sifting it slowly 
through the fingers, while stirring rapidly with the other hand. Boil 
for ten minutes, and cook over hot water for two hours. Serve hot 
as a cereal. Or pour into one-pound baking powder boxes to cool; 
slice, dip in flour, and saute in butter; or dip in egg and crumbs, and 
fry in deep fat. Serve either for breakfast, or as an accompaniment 
to roast pork, or, with syrup, for dessert. 

Noodle Balls (for Soup) 

Roll Noodle Paste very thin, fold double, and cut with small round 
vegetable cutter, or end of pastry tube; fry in deep fat until puffed 
into balls. Drain on soft paper. 

Scotch Oatmeal 

Ingredients — 4 cups boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup oatmeal. 

Preparation — Put water and salt in top of double boiler, place in 
direct contact with range, sift in oatmeal slowly, and boil for five 
minutes, stirring often; cover, and cook over hot water four hours, 
or cook on back of range over night. 



50 CEREALS, MACARONI AND RICE 

Steamed Hominy 

Ingredients — 4 cups boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup fine 
hominy. 

Preparation — Put salt and boiling water in top of double boiler, 
place in direct contact with range, sift in hominy slowly, and boil for 
ten minutes, stirring often; cover, and cook over hot water two hours. 

Scalloped Macaroni and Cheese 

Ingredients — 1% cups elbow macaroni, % cup cheese cut fine, 1 
onion, % teaspoon mustard, 1 cup White Sauce, Vs cup buttered 
crumbs. 

Preparation — Cook macaroni and onion in boiling salted water until 
tender, and drain; remove onion, add cheese and mustard to sauce 
and mix with macaroni; turn into a greased baking dish, cover with 
crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

Noodle Paste 

Ingredients — 1 egg, ^/4 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon water, bread 
flour. 

Preparation — Beat egg slightly, add water, salt, and flour enough 
to make a very stiff dough; knead well for three minutes, adding flour 
if necessary. Roll out as thin as possible; cut in fancy shapes with 
small vegetable cutter; or roll like a jelly roll and cut thin slices from 
the end. Cook in soup, or boiling salted water. If served as a vege- 
table, season with butter, salt, and pepper, or serve with White 
Sauce. 

Polenta with Cheese 

Ingredients — 2 cups boiling water, 1 cup corn meal, 2 cups milk, 1 
cup cheese grated, or soft cheese cut fine, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Heat water and milk to the boiling point, add salt, 
and sift in corn meal very slowly. Cook over hot water two hours, 
or put into a fireless cooker for three hours. When cooked, add cheese, 
pour into a shallow pan until half an inch thick. When cold, cut into 
two-inch squares, dip in crumbs, then in egg, and then again in crumbs 
and fry in deep fat. Or roll in flour and saute in butter. Mustard, 
cayenne, Worcestershire sauce, etc., may be added if desired. 

Polenta with Dates 

Prepare recipe for Polenta with Cheese, using in place of the cheese 
one and a half cups of dates, which have been washed, stoned and 
cut in pieces. Serve hot as a cereal or dessert, or in any way in 
which mush is served. Cooked dried peaches, apricots, prunes, or figs 
may be substituted for dates. 

Spanish Polenta 

Ingredients — 4 cups boiling water, 1 green pepper, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 cup corn meal, 1 onion, 1 cup cheese cut fine. 

Preparation — Add salt to boiling water; add onion and pepper 
chopped fine; sift in corn meal very slowly, stirring all the time. 
Cook over hot water for two hours; add cheese, and serve hot with 
Tomato Sauce. 



CEREALS, MACARONI AND RICE 51 

French Fried Polenta 

Prepare recipe for Polenta with Cheese; pour into a shallow pan 
until two-thirds of an inch thick; cool; cut into strips about three 
inches long; dip first in crumbs, then in egg, and then again in crumbs; 
and fry in deep fat. 

Baked Rice and Ham 

Ingredients — V2 cup rice, 1 tablespoon onion finely chopped, 2% 
cups stock or water, 2 cups milk, 2 tablespoons carrot finely chopped, 
Vz cup cooked ham finely chopped. 

Preparation — Wash rice, place in greased baking dish; add liquid, 
ham, vegetables, and salt if necessary. Bake slowly for three hours, 
stirring occasionally during the first hour. Ham stock or corned beef 
stock may be used, and any cooked meat substituted for ham. Serve 
with boiled spinach or dressed lettuce. 

Baked Spaghetti and Ham 

Ingredients — 2 cups cooked spaghetti, 1*^ cups White Sauce, % cup 
cooked ham finely chopped, 2 tablespoons tomato ketchup, 1 hard- 
cooked egg, chopped, Vz cup buttered crumbs. 

Preparation — Put half of spaghetti into a greased baking dish; mix 
ham and egg, and add half of it to spaghetti; mix sauce and ketchup, 
and pour half of it over ham; repeat; cover with crumbs, and bake 
in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

Rice and Cocoanut Loaf 

Ingredients — 2 cups cooked rice, 1 egg slightly beaten, 1 cup stewed 
and strained tomatoes, % teaspoon paprika, ^,4 teaspoon mustard, 1 
tablespoon grated onion, 1 can grated cocoanut, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 
tablespoons melted bacon fat. 

Preparation — Mix all ingredients except the bacon fat; put into a 
deep greased pan, cover with bacon fat, and bake in a slow oven one 
hour. 

Risotto 

Ingredients — V2 cup rice, 1 onion chopped, 1 cup boiling water, 1 
green pepper chopped, 1 teaspoon salt, V2 can tomatoes, 3 tablespoons 
bacon fat, i/4 teaspoon paprika. 

Preparation — Cook rice with boiling water and salt in top of double 
boiler twelve minutes, cook onion and pepper in bacon fat ten min- 
utes, stirring often; add tomatoes and paprika, mix with rice, and 
cook forty-five minutes. 

Corn Meal and Beef Scrapple 

Ingredients — 3% cups corned beef stock, 1 cup corned beef cut in 
small pieces, 1 cup corn meal. 

Preparation — Cook meal in stock as directed in Com Meal Mush, 
add meat, and pour into a deep bread pan; when cold, either slice and 
serve cold, or dip in flour and saute in butter, or dip in crumbs, then 
in egg, and then again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. If stock is 
very salt, dilute with water or milk. Any kind of stock or meat 
may be used in place of corned beef. 



,52 CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 

Steamed Samp 

Ingredients — V2 cup samp, 2y2 cups boiling water, % teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Wash samp, soak over night in cold water, and drain; 
put boiling water and salt in top of double boiler, and place directly 
on the range; add samp slowly and boil five minutes; place over hot 
water and cook for four hours. 

Wheat and Sausage Scrapple 

Ingredients — 3% cups boiling water, 1 cup Cream of Wheat, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, V2 pound link sausage. 

Preparation — Stir wheat slowly into boiling salted water, cook five 
minutes, place over hot water, and cook half an hour. Cook sausages 
in frying pan until brown, cut into half-inch pieces, add to mush, and 
pour into deep pan to cool. Serve sliced cold, sauteed, or fried. 

Boiled Rice 

Wash one cup rice, and add slowly to two quarts of boiling salted 
water, allowing one tablespoon of salt; cook until tender, pour into 
strainer, rinse with boiling water, and put in oven or on back of 
range for a few minutes, until the grains separate. Very old rice is 
improved by soaking in cold water for an hour or two before cook- 
ing. Corned beef or ham stock may be used in place of salted water. 

Creole Spaghetti 

Ingredients — 2 cups spaghetti broken in 2-inch pieces, 3 tablespoons 
bacon fat, 1 cup tomatoes, 1 onion chopped fine, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 
green pepper chopped fine, Vz teaspoon paprika. 

Preparation — Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water until tender, 
and drain; cook onion and pepper in bacon fat for ten minutes, stir- 
ring often; add tomatoes and seasonings, put in top of double boiler, 
add spaghetti, and cook half an hour. Macaroni may be used in place 
of spaghetti. 

Italian Spaghetti 

Ingredients — 2 cups spaghetti broken in 2-inch pieces, 4 cloves, % 
bay leaf, V2 onion, 1 can condensed tomato soup, ^i cup grated cheese. 

Preparation — Cook spaghetti in boiling salted v/ater with the onion, 
cloves and bay leaf until tender; drain, remove onion, cloves and bay 
leaf; add soup and cheese and heat to boiling point. One-half can 
tomatoes seasoned, stewed until thick and pressed through a sieve, 
may be used in place of soup. Macaroni may be used in place of 
spaghetti. 

See temperature for frying page. 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 

To Clarify Fat 

Melt fat, add one pared and sliced raw potato, a pinch of soda, and 
a tablespoon of water; heat slov/ly, and cook until fat stops bubbling; 
strain through double cheesecloth. 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 53 

To Try Out Fat 

Cut any surplus fat into pieces, put into double boiler, cover, cook 
slowly until fat is extracted, and strain through double cheesecloth. 

Crumbs for Fried Food 

Dry left-over bits of bread in a slow oven, put through food chop- 
per, using finest cutter, and sift through a coarse sieve. Keep in cov- 
ered jars. 

Egg for Dipping Fried Food 

Break egg into a soup plate or similar shallow dish, beat enough to 
mix yolk and white, and add one-fourth cup of cold water or one- 
third cup of milk. Coat food thoroughly to prevent soaking fat. 

Cheese Balls 

Ingredients — 1% cups cheese cut fine, ^/4 teaspoon mustard, 1 table- 
spoon flour, 1/4 teaspoon paprika, M teaspoon salt, whites of 2 eggs 
beaten stiff. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, shape in balls about one inch in 
diameter, roll in sifted crumbs, and fry in deep fat until brown. Drain 
on soft paper, and serve hot. Serve with the salad course or as a 
savory. 

Cheese Croquettes 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoons shortening, Vi teaspoon paprika, Vs cup 
bread flour, Vi teaspoon mustard, 1 cup hot milk, few grains cayenne, 
Vi teaspoon salt, 1 cup cheese cut fine. 

Preparation — Melt shortening, add flour; add hot milk, and stir 
until smooth and thick; add seasonings and cheese, and pour into a 
shallow dish to cool. Shape into small pyramids, roll in sifted crumbs, 
dip in egg, and again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat until brown. 
Serve immediately. 

Fish Croquettes 

Ingredients — 2 cups cold flaked fish, few drops onion juice, 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice, salt and cayenne, 1 cup Croquette Sauce. 

Preparation — Use remnants of baked or boiled fish, sprinkle with 
lemon and onion juice, dust lightly with salt and cayenne, and mix 
with sauce. When cold, shape into small croquettes or cutlets, dip 
in crumbs, egg, and again in crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat one 
minute. 

Meat Croquettes 

To two cups of cooked meat cut in small pieces add one teaspoon 
of Worcestershire sauce and a few drops of onion juice; mix with 
one cup of Croquette Sauce and put on ice until cold. Shape _ into 
small croquettes or cutlets, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, and again in 
crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat. Any left-over meat may be used. 

Rice Croquettes 

Ingredients — 1 egg slightly beaten, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 
Vi teaspoon salt, % teaspoon onion juice, 2 tablespoons cold wa^er, 
1 tablespoon tomato ketchup, 2 cups cooked rice. 

Preparation — Mix in order given; shape into small pyramids, dip 
in crumbs, egg, and again in crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat. 



c 



54 CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 

Rice and Raisin Croquettes 

Ingredients — V2 cup rice, 1 cup hot milk, 1 cup boiling water, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sultana raisins. 

Preparation — Wash rice, stir into boiling salted water, and boil five 
minutes, add milk, butter and raisins, and cook over hot water about 
twenty-five minutes, or until rice is tender. Shape into small pyra- 
mids, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat. Serve with 
Currant Jelly Sauce or Lemon Sauce. 

Potato and Bean Croquettes 

Ingredients — 2 cups cold baked beans, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
or Brand's A 1 sauce, 1 cup mashed potato, "M teaspoon paprika, salt 
if needed. 

Preparation — Press beans through a sieve, add potato and season- 
ings, mix well, and shape into small pyramids. Roll in crumbs, dio 
in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry in hot deep fat. Drain on soft 
paper, and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Salmon and Potato Croquettes 

Rinse a can of salmon with boiling water, and separate into flakes; 
mix with two cups of hot, well-seasoned mashed potatoes, and a 
tablespoon of finely chopped mixed pickles. Shape into small cro- 
quettes, dip in crumbs, egg, and then in crumbs again, and fry in 
hot deep fat one minute. 

Sliced Apple Fritters 

Ingredients — 1 cup flour, 1 egg well beaten, % teaspoon salt, V2 
cup cold water, 1 tablespoon sugar, 3 tart apples. 

Preparation — Mix and sift flour, salt, and sugar; add egg and 
water, and beat well; pare, core, and cut apples into half- inch slices; 
dip in batter until well coated, and fry in hot deep fat; drain on soft 
paper, and dust with powdered sugar. Serve with roast pork or 
sausage, or serve with a liquid sauce as an entree or a dessert. 

Banana Fritters 

Ingredients — 1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon powdered sugar, 1% tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 egg well beaten, i/4 cup cold water, Vi tea- 
spoon salt, 2 bananas. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients, add egg and water, and 
beat well; press bananas through a sieve, add to batter, and drop from 
a tablespoon into hot deep fat; drain on soft paper, dust with pow- 
dered sugar, and serve with Currant Jelly Sauce or Lemon Sauce, 
either as an entree or as a dessert. 

Corn Fritters 

Ingredients — 1 can corn, % cup milk, V2 cup dried and sifted crumbs, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 egg well beaten, 1 table- 
spoon flour. 

Preparation — Chop the corn, and add other ingredients in order 
given. Drop from a tablespoon into hot deep fat and fry until brown. 
Or saute in a hot greased frying pan. 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 55 

Cranberry Fritters 

Ingredients — 1 egg well beaten, i/4 cup water, V4, teaspoon salt, 1 
cup flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, IVz teaspoons baking powder, Yz cup 
chopped cranberries. 

Preparation — Mix in order given; drop from a tablespoon into hot 
deep fat, cook about three minutes, drain on soft paper, and dredge 
with powdered sugar. 

Rice and Currant Fritters 

Ingredients — 1 cup flour, % teaspoon nutmeg, 1^/^ teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 egg well beaten, % cup cold water, % teaspoon salt, 1 cup 
cooked rice, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons washed currants. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg and water, and 
beat well; add rice and currants, and drop from a tablespoon into hot 
deep fat; drain on soft paper, and serve with Currant Jelly Sauce, 
Orange Marmalade Sauce, or Lemon Sauce. 

Salmon Fritters 

Ingredients — 1 % cups flour, % cup water, Vi teaspoon salt, i/4 tea- 
spoon paprika, 2 teaspoons baking powder, % teaspoon onion juice, 
1 egg well beaten, Vz can salmon chopped fine. 

Preparation — Sift flour, salt, and baking powder; add egg, water, 
and seasonings, and beat well; add salmon, and drop from a table- 
spoon into hot deep fat; cook until brown, drain on soft paper, and 
serve with Sauce Tartare or Tomato Sauce. 

Doughnuts 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, V2 teaspoon nutmeg, 2^/^ teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, V2 cup sugar, % teaspoon salt, 1 egg well beaten, V2 cup 
milk, 1 tablespoon melted shortening. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg, milk, and short- 
ening, and mix well; chill, and roll out on a floured board until half 
an inch thick; cut, and fry in hot deep fat. A little more flour may 
be necessary, but the dough should be as soft as can be handled 
easily. 

Small Tea Doughnuts 

Follow recipe for Doughnuts, roll mixture very thin, cut with a 
two-inch doughnut cutter, fry, and dust with powdered sugar. Or 
fry the cut-out centers of large doughnuts, and roll in powdered 
sugar. 

Fried Jam Cakes 

Roll doughnut mixture very thin, and cut with a three-inch cookie 
cutter; put a teaspoon of jam on one-half, moisten the edges with 
water, fold double, press edges firmly together, and fry in hot deep 
fat. Dust with powdered sugar. 



56 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

Ingredients — 1% cups hot milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 
2 teaspoons mustard, 1 tablespoon salt, dash of cayenne, 3 tablespoons 
flour, V2 cup hot vinegar. 

Preparation — Mix dry ingredients, add to egg, and stir into the 
hot milk; add vinegar slowly, and cook over hot water for ten min- 
utes, stirring constantly at first. Cool, put into a preserve jar, cover 
and keep in a cool place. Whipped cream may be added, if desired, 
before using. Allow one cup for the whole recipe. Two tablespoons 
of melted butter or salad oil may be added, but recipe is very good 
without either. 

Cooked Salad Dressing (Evaporated Milk) 

Ingredients — V2 teaspoon salt, 1 beaten egg, 1 teaspoon mustard, 

1 tablespoon melted butter, 1% teaspoons sugar, Va cup evaporated 
milk, 11/1 teaspoons flour, % cup hot water, few grains cayenne, V4. 
cup vinegar. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, and cook over hot water for 
ten minutes, stirring constantly at first. 

Currant Jelly Dressing 

Ingredients — % cup currant or any other tart jelly, 4 tablespoons 
oil, 2 tablespoons candied ginger chopped, juice of V2 lemon, dash 
of cayenne. 

Preparation — Melt the jelly, add ginger, cool slightly; add oil, lemon 
juice and cayenne. 

Devilled Ham Dressing 

Ingredients — 1 egg, i/4 teaspoon salt, 1 small can devilled ham, % 
teaspoon pepper, V2 cup vinegar, % teaspoon mustard, % cup water, 
%, teaspoon cornstarch. 

Preparation — Beat egg, add ham, vinegar, and water; mix salt, 
pepper, mustard and cornstarch; add to ham mixture; and cook over 
hot water ten minutes. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Ingredients — Yolk of 1 eggj 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon salt, 
V2 teaspoon paprika, % teaspoon powdered sugar, 1 cup salad oil, 

2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Preparation — Beat the egg yolk; add the seasonings; add oil, a 
few drops at a time, until mixture thickens; mix vinegar and lemon 
juice, and add in small quantities, alternating with the oil; as the 
oil thickens the dressing, dilute Avith the acid, leaving the finished 
dressing thick. It is important to have ingredients and utensils cold. 

Potato Mayonnaise 

Ingredients — V2 cup mashed potatoes, V2 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, 2 tablespoons oil, hi teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons vinegar, ^,4 
teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon horseradish, Vi, teaspoon sugar. 

Preparation — Mix in order given and serve with vegetable salad or 
cold meat. 



r 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 57 

French Dressing 

Ingredients — % cup oil, % teaspoon pepper, % cup vinegar, % tea- 
spoon mustard, 1^/4 teaspoons salt, 1 teaspoon powdered sugar. 

Preparation — Put the ingredients in a pint preserve jar; fasten 
the cover, chill and shake well before using. Keep in the ice-box and 
use as needed. For use with fruit salad, omit mustard. Curry, 
Brand's Al sauce, Worcestershire sauce, tomato ketchup, or similar* 
condiments may be added in small amounts to vary the flavor. 

Russian Dressing 

To Mayonnaise Dressing add one-third cup of thick chili sauce. 
Cooked salad dressing may be used in place of mayonnaise. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

Ingredients — % cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon powdered sugar, */4 tea- 
spoon salt, 3 tablespoons chili sauce. 

Preparation — Beat cream until stiff; add salt, sugar, and chili sauce. 

Quick Mayonnaise 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoons butter, % teaspoon sugar, Vz teaspoon 
salt, 3 tablespoons oil, Vz teaspoon mustard, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
% teaspoon paprika, 1 egg. 

Preparation — Cream butter, add seasonings, and when well mixed 
add oil all at once; mix well, add vinegar; mix well, add the well- 
beaten egg yolk, and fold in the stiifly beaten white of egg. Do not 
chill. 

Uncooked Salad Dressing (Condensed Milk) 

Ingredients — 2 eggs beaten, 1 can condensed milk, i/4 cup melted 
butter, 1 cup vinegar, IVz teaspoons salt, l^/^ teaspoons mustard, dash 
cayenne. 

Chicken Salad 

Ingredients — 2 cups cold cooked chicken, 2 cups celery cut fine, 
salad dressing, lettuce, 1 hard-cooked egg. 

Preparation — Cut remnants of chicken in small pieces and mix 
with celery and salad dressing; arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish 
with dressing and egg thinly sliced. Cabbage and a little celery salt 
may be used in place of celery. 

Coronado Salad 

Ingredients — 1 can tuna fish, 2 cups shredded cabbage, 1 green 
pepper cooked and shredded, Cooked Dressing, 2 tablespoons tomato 
ketchup. 

Preparation — Flake fish; shred cabbage very fine; cut pepper in 
halves, remove seeds, cook in boiling water ten minutes, and shred 
in inch lengths; mix, arrange on lettuce, and dress with boiled dress- 
ing, to which the ketchup has been added. Garnish with parsley or 
pimiento. 

Leek Salad 

Cut leeks in half-inch slices and cook in boiling salted water until 
tender; drain, chill, and serve on lettuce with French Dressing; sprin- 
kle with chopped parsley and paprika. 



58 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

Meat and Potato Salad 

Ingredients — 1% cups cooked meat cut fine, 1% cups cooked potato 
cut fine, V2 cup celery cut fine, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons finely 
chopped pickle, salad dressing. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, cover with dressing, and garnish 
vi^ith sliced pickles and celery tops. White cabbage may be used in 
place of celery. 

Salmon Salad 

Ingredients — 1 can salmon, 1 cup cooked potato cubes, 1 cup 
shredded lettuce, 2 finely chopped pickles. Cooked Dressing, lettuce. 

Preparation — Rinse salmon with boiling water, and separate into 
flakes; mix with potato, lettuce, and pickles, arrange on lettuce, and 
cover with dressing. Garnish with sliced hard-cooked egg and parsley. 

Shrimp Salad 

Ingredients — 1 pint cooked shrimps, 1 cup chopped white cabbage, 
2 tablespoons capers, % cup salad dressing, 1 head lettuce. 

Preparation — Clean shrimps and break in pieces, reserving a few 
of the largest; mix with cabbage, capers, and dressing, and serve in 
lettuce nests. Garnish with whole shrimps. Canned shrimps may 
be used. 

Tuna Fish Salad 

Ingredients — 1 can tuna fish, 2 cups cooked potato cubes, V2 cup 
cooked beets, salad dressing, lettuce. 

Preparation — Flake tuna fish, mix with potatoes cut into fine cubes, 
and the beet cut into inch shreds; arrange on lettuce or any crisp 
salad green; and dress with Cooked Dressing or Mayonnaise. 

Baked Bean Salad 

Ingredients — 2 cups cold baked beans, 1 cup cooked potato cubes, 
% cup chopped cooked beets, 1 cup Cooked Dressing, 2 tablespoons 
tomato ketchup, 2 tablespoons chopped pickle. 

Preparation — Mix beans, potato, and beets; add ketchup and pickle 
to dressing, mix with vegetables, and serve on lettuce or any crisp 
salad green. Garnish with radishes. 

Bermuda Onion Salad 

Ingredients — 6 Bermuda onions, 2 quarts boiling water, 1 dozen 
pepper corns, 4 cloves, V2 teaspoon salt, y2 bay leaf, small piece 
lemon peel, lettuce, French Dressing. 

Preparation — Peel and quarter onions, and cook in boiling water 
with seasonings until tender; drain, cool, arrange on lettuce, and 
cover with dressing. Garnish with red radishes. 

Cabbage and Beet Salad 

Ingredients — 2 cups shredded cabbage, 3 beets finely chopped, ^,4 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons vinegar, i/4 teaspoon white mustard seed. 
Cooked Dressing. 

Preparation — Mix cabbage, beets, salt, vinegar, and mustard seed; 
arrange on small white cabbage leaves, and dress with cooked dress- 
ing. Garnish with parsley. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 59 

Cabbage and Cranberry Salad 

Ingredients — 3 cups finely shredded white cabbage, % cup finely 
shredded celery, V2 cup chopped cranberries. 

Preparation — Mix with Cooked Dressing, and garnish with celery 
tops and whole cranberries. 

Celery Root Salad 

Ingredients — 2 cups Creamed Celery Root, 1 cup chopped apple, 1 
cup shredded white cabbage. 

Preparation — Mix, and serve on lettuce with Cooked Dressing or 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Dutch Potato Salad 

Ingredients — 6 boiled potatoes, V2 onion finely chopped, 1 teaspoon 
salt, V4 teaspoon pepper, Vi teaspoon celery seed, % teaspoon white 
mustard seed, V^ cup bacon fat, V2 cup hot vinegar. 

Preparation — Cut potatoes into half-inch cubes; add onion, salt, 
pepper, celery, and mustard seed; heat bacon fat, add vinegar, and 
pour over potatoes; let stand until cold, and serve on any crisp salad 
green. Garnish with pickled beet. 

Pepper and Cabbage Salad 

Ingredients — V2 small white cabbage, 1 green pepper, 1 red pepper, 
salad dressing. 

Preparation — Shred cabbage into fine inch shreds; remove seeds 
and veins from peppers, and cut into fine shreds. Mix with dressing 
and arrange on small inner cabbage leaves. Garnish with parsley and 
strips of red pepper. 

Potato Salad 

Ingredients — 6 potatoes, 1 onion, y2 teaspoon celery seed, V4, tea- 
spoon mustard seed, V2 teaspoon salt, V2 teaspoon paprika, salad 
dressing. 

Preparation — Pare potatoes, cut in halves, and cook in boiling salted 
water with the onion until tender; cool, cut in half-inch cubes, add 
seasonings, and mix vdth dressing. Cover with dressing, and garnish 
with parsley, red beets, or cooked carrot. Devilled Ham Dressing is 
excellent with potato salad. 

Banana and Apple Salad 

Peel and scrape bananas, cut crosswise into three pieces, roll in 
finely chopped and cover with Currant Jelly Dressing. 

Banana and Peanut Salad 

Peel and scrape bananas, cut crosswise into three pieces, roll in 
finely chopped peanuts and serve on lettuce with French Dressing. 

Samoset Salad 

Arrange lettuce in salad bowl, cover vnth slices of pickled beets, 
and sprinkle thickly with cottage cheese. Cover with dressing made 
of three tablespoons each of best vinegar and oil, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt, and one-eighth teaspoon pepper. 



60 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

Sweet Potato Salad 

Ingredients — 3 cups of cooked sweet potato cubes, 1 cup white cab- 
bage or celery finely chopped, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 4 tablespoons 
oil, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, Vz teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Mix and serve on heart cabbage leaves, and garnish 
with parsley and pickles. 

Spanish Salad 

Ingredients — 1 head of lettuce, 2 cups of half-inch cubes of bread, 
1 Spanish onion chopped fine, 1 cucumber sliced, 3 tomatoes quartered, 
French Dressing, 2 sliced pickles. 

Preparation — Shred the coarser leaves of the lettuce and arrange 
in salad bowl on heart leaves; cover with bread cubes, sprinkle with 
onion, add cucumber and tomatoes, and pour French dressing over 
all. Garnish with pickles. 

Spanish Onion and Tomato Salad 

Ingredients — 1 head lettuce, 4 mild onions, 2 ripe tom_atoes, 1 green 
pepper, French Dressing. 

Preparation — Wash and dry lettuce, and arrange in salad bowl; 
peel onions, cut in very thin slices, and put on lettuce; peel and slice 
tomatoes and place on onions; cut pepper in thin slices, remove seeds 
and veins and place on tomatoes; cover with French Dressing and 
serve very cold with brown bread sandwiches. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

Ingredients — 1 can tomatoes, % onion, 4 cloves, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon sugar, Vs teaspoon soda, dash of cayenne, V2 bay leaf, % 
box gelatine, V2 cup cold water. 

Preparation — Cook tomatoes and seasonings for twenty minutes; 
soak gelatine in cold water for a few minutes; add to tomato, and stir 
until dissolved; press through a sieve, and fill individual molds, which 
have been garnished with a slice of hard-cooked egg. Serve on let- 
tuce Avith any dressing preferred. A small amount of clear jelly 
may be made by allowing mixture to drip through a jelly bag. Put 
into very small molds, and use as a garnish for cold meat or salads. 
The pulp left in the bag will make excellent soup. 

Vegetable Salad (Cooked) 

Ingredients — IV2 cups potatoes, 1 cup beets, % cup white turnip, 
% cup peas, French Dressing, % teaspoon onion juice, 1 bouillon cube. 

Preparation — Cut potatoes, beets and turnips into half-inch cubes, 
and mix with peas; dissolve bouillon cube in one tablespoon of boil- 
ing water, and add with onion juice to dressing. Arrange vegetables 
on any crisp salad green, and pour dressing over them. 

Frozen Cream Cheese 

Mash a cream cheese, season with paprika and salt, moisten with 
cream and beat until smooth; pack into individual paper cases, put 
into a tightly covered tin, and pack in equal parts of salt and ice for 
three hours. Serve on lettuce with French Dressing and garnish with 
bits of currant jelly or Mock Bar-le-Duc Currants. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 61 



Bellevue Salad 

Ingredients — 1 cup cottage cheese, % cup peanut butter, V2 teaspoon 
salt, IVi cup French Dressing, 1 large red apple, lettuce leaves. 

Preparation — Mix cheese, butter, salt, and dressing until well 
blended; core apples, cut in one-third-inch slices and cover each slice 
with cheese mixture forced through a rose tube; arrange on lettuce 
and serve with French Dressing. 

Cream Cheese Salad 

Force cream cheese through potato ricer, arrange lightlj'- on let- 
tuce leaves and dress with a French Dressing, to which two table- 
spoons of chili sauce have been added. 

Jellied Waldorf Salad 

Ingredients — i/^ package gelatine, V2 cup cold water, 1 cup boiling 
water, % cup sugar, V4, cup lemon juice, 2 cups apple chopped, 1 cup 
celery shredded, V2 cup nut meats chopped, lettuce, 6 pimolas sliced, 
mayonnaise. 

Preparation — Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, add boil- 
ing water, sugar, and lemon juice; chill until it begins to stiffen; 
add apples, celery, and nuts; turn into individual molds, and chill. 
Serve on lettuce, and garnish with pimolas and mayonnaise. 

Orange and Cress Salad 

Ingredients — 1 bunch water cress, 1 head romaine, 4 seedless 
oranges, French Dressing. 

Preparation — Pick over, wash and dry cress; wash and dry romaine 
and arrange in salad bowl; peel and cut oranges in thin slices and 
arrange over romaine; put cress around edge of bowl and cover all 
with French Dressing made with lemon juice instead of vinegar. 

Pear Salad 

Ingredients — 5 pears, lettuce, 4 tablespoons oil, 2 tablespoons 
lemon juice, 1 teaspoon Jamaica ginger, 1 teaspoon powdered sugar, 
V2 teaspoon paprika. 

Preparation — Pare, quarter, and core fruit; wash and dry lettuce; 
shred finely the outer leaves and arrange on the heart leaves; cut 
quarters of pears lengthwise, place on lettuce and cover with dress- 
ing made of oil, lemon juice and seasonings. The pears should not 
be too ripe. 

Pineapple and Cottage Cheese Salad 

For each person allow two lettuce leaves, one slice of pineapple and 
three dates stuffed with cream cheese. Cut the pineapple in cubes 
and place on the lettuce; cut dates in halves lengthwise, remove stones, 
stuff with cream cheese and arrange on pineapple; sprinkle cheese 
with paprika and dress all with French Dressing. 

Pineapple and Cottage Cheese Salad 

Arrange slices of pineapple on crisp lettuce; in the center of each 
slice place a cottage cheese ball rolled in chopped nut meats; dress 
with French Dressing. 



62 YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS AND ROLLS 

YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS AND ROLLS 

White Bread 

Ingredients — 1 cup scalded milk, 1 cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 2 tablespoons shortening, 2^^ teaspoons salt, Vz yeast cake, 
1/4 cup lukewarm water, 6 to 7 cups flour. 

Preparation — Put liquid, sugar, shortening and salt in the mixing 
bowl; when lukewarm, add the yeast cake (which has been dissolved 
in lukewarm water) ; add flour and knead well. The exact amount 
of flour will depend upon the quality; but enough should be used to 
make a smooth, soft dough which after kneading is not sticky. Cover 
and let rise in a warm room until double in bulk; cut down, knead well 
and shape into loaves; cover, let rise until double in bulk and bake 
in a hot oven about fifty minutes. To hurry the rising of the bread, 
increase the quantity of yeast. Bread mixed with two yeast cakes 
may be made and baked in about three hours. 

Bran Bread (Yeast) 

Ingredients — Vz cup boiling water, V2. cup scalded milk, 2 table- 
spoons shortening, 2 tablespoon molasses, 1% teaspoons salt, V2, yeast 
cake, ^4 cup lukewarm water, 1 cup entire wheat flour, 1 cup white 
flour, 2 cups bran. 

Preparation — Mix water, milk, shortening, molasses and salt; when 
lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm water, add flour 
sifted, and bran, and mix with liquid to a soft dough; let rise until 
light, cut down and knead into small loaves, using more bran if 
necessary to prevent sticking; let rise until nearly double, and bake 
in hot oven about fifty minutes. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

Follow recipe for White Bread, using four cups of entire wheat 
flour and two or more cups of white flour. Molasses may be used in 
place of sugar. 

Date Bread (Not Kneaded) 

Ingredients — 1 cup scalded milk, 1 cup boiling water, i/4 cup 
molasses, 2 tablespoons shortening, 2 tablespoons salt, Vz yeast cake, 
1/4 cup lukewarm water, 4 cups entire wheat flour, 1^/4 cups white 
flour, 1 cup dates cut in pieces. 

Preparation — Mix milk, water, molasses, shortening and salt; when 
lukewarm, add yeast, dissolved in lukewarm water, and flour; mix, 
and beat well; let rise until double in bulk; add dates, beat well, turn 
into two greased bread pans, let rise until light and bake one hour. 
The oven should be hot for the first fifteen minutes, and then the heat 
should be reduced. 

Irish Bread 

Ingredients — 1 quart bread dough, Vz cup shortening, i/4 cup sugar, 
1 cup raisins seeded and chopped. 

Preparation — Knead shortening, sugar, and raisins into dough; 
shape into two round loaves, let rise, brush with milk, and bake in 
hot oven abovit forty minutes. 



YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS AND ROLLS 63 

Fried Bread 

Cut raised bread dough into pieces the size of a small egg, flatten 
with the rolling pin, cover, let rise until light, and fry in deep fat 
about three minutes. 

Graham and Corn Bread 

Ingredients — 1 cup com meal, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup scalded 
milk, 2 tablespoons shortening, 2^/^ teaspoons salt, V^ cup molasses, 
% yeast cake, Vi cup lukewarm water, 4 cups Graham flour. 

Preparation — Pour boiling water over com meal; mix well;- add 
milk and shortening; when lukewarm add salt, molasses, and yeast 
dissolved in lukewarm water; add flour, beat well, and let rise until 
double in bulk; beat again, pour into two greased bread pans, let rise 
until light, and bake about fifty minutes. The oven should be hot 
for the first fifteen minutes, and then the heat reduced. 

Oatmeal Bread 

Ingredients — 1 cup rolled oats, V2 cup corn meal, 1% tablespoons 
shortening, 2 cups boiling water, V2 yeast cake, % cup lukewarm 
water, V2 cup molasses, 4 cups flour. 

Preparation — Mix oats, com meal, salt, and shortening; add boil- 
ing water, and let stand one hour; add yeast dissolved in lukewarm 
water, molasses and flour. Mix well, cover, and let rise until double 
in bulk; beat well, turn into two greased pans, let rise, and bake in 
a hot oven about fifty minutes. 

Rye Bread 

Ingredients — 1 cup scalded milk, 1 cup boiling water, 2 tablespoons 
shortening, 3 tablespoons molasses, 2 teaspoons salt, V2 yeast cake, 
1/4 cup lukewarm water, 3 cups rye flour, 3 to 4 cups white flour. 

Preparation — Mix; let rise and bake the same as White Bread. 

Shredded Wheat Bread 

Ingredients — 2 shredded wheat biscuit, 1 cup hot milk, 1 cup hot 
water, V2 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon shortening, 
V2 yeast cake, M cup lukewarm water, 6 cups entire wheat flour. 

Preparation — Crumble the biscuit; add milk, water, molasses, salt, 
and shortening; when lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm 
water, and sifted flour; knead well, cover and let rise until double 
in bulk; cut down, shape into loaves or biscuit, put into greased pans, 
let rise until light, and bake in a hot oven about fifty minutes for 
loaves, and twenty-five minutes for biscuit. This makes one loaf and 
one pan of biscuit. A little more or less flour inay be needed. 

Crescents 

Use Parker House Roll mixture, or any bread dough into which 
more shortening has been kneaded; roll out half an inch thick, cut 
into four-inch squares, and cut squares in halves diagonally; brush 
with melted shortening, and roll firmly, beginning with the diagonal 
edge. Curve into crescent shape, place on greased baking sheet, let 
rise until light, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 



64 YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS AND ROLLS 

Buns 

Ingredients — 1 cup scalded milk, % cup shortening, ^4: cup sugar, 
1 teaspoon salt, V2 yeast cake, ^A cup lukewarm water, V2 cup cur- 
rants, 3V2 cups flour. 

Preparation — Mix milk, shortening, sugar and salt; when luke- 
warm, add yeast dissolved in lukewarm water; add currants, and 
flour enough to knead (a little more or less than the three and one- 
half cups may be required); let rise until double in bulk; knead, and 
shape into small round buns; place in a greased baking pan two 
inches apart, and let rise until light; brush with milk, dust with pow- 
dered sugar, and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

Parker House Rolls 

Ingredients — 2 cups milk, Vs cup shortening, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 1 yeast cake, % cup lukewarm water, 6 to 7 cups 
flour. 

Preparation — Scald milk; add shortening, salt and sugar; when cool 
add yeast dissolved in water; stir in two cups of flour, cover, and 
let rise until double in bulk; add enough flour to form a soft dough; 
knead well, and let rise again; cut down with a knife; roll out on 
lightly floured bread board until about half an inch thick; cut with 
small round cutter, brush with butter, and fold double; put on bak- 
ing sheet, cover, and let rise until light, brush with milk, and bake 
in hot oven about twelve minutes. 

Shamrock Rolls 

To one quart of bread dough add one-fourth cup of melted shorten- 
ing and two tablespoons of sugar. Knead well, and shape into small 
balls about the size of a pecan nut; grease muffin tins, put three balls 
in each, let rise until light, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen 
minutes. 

Swedish Coffee Rolls 

Ingredients — 1 cup scalded milk, Vs cup shortening, 1 teaspoon salt, 
V4, cup sugar, 1 egg well beaten, V2 yeast cake, V^ cup lukewarm water, 
31/^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Preparation — Scald milk, add shortening, salt, and sugar; when 
lukewarm add egg, yeast dissolved in water, and flour, of which a 
little more or less may be required; knead well, cover and let rise 
until double in bulk; knead again; roll on a floured board until about 
one-fourth of an inch thick, brush with melted shortening, and sprinkle 
with cinnamon mixed vdth sugar; fold dough into three layers, cut 
in strips three-quarters of an inch thick; twist each strip, and shape 
like a figure eight, pressing the ends firmly in place; put on a greased 
baking sheet, let rise until light, and bake in a hot oven twenty min- 
utes. Spread with a thin coating of plain icing. 

Raised Date Muffins 

Follow recipe for Date Bread; half fill greased muffin tins, let rise 
until light, and bake in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. Figs cut 
in small pieces may be use instead of dates. 



BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS AND BISCUITS 65 

Raised Muffins 

Ingredients — V2 cup boiling^ water, V2 cup scalded milk, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons shortening, 1 egg, ^,4 yeast 
cake, 1/4 cup lukewarm water, 2^/^ cups flour. 

Preparation — Pour water and milk over salt, sugar, and shortening; 
when cool add beaten egg, yeast dissolved in water, and flour; beat 
well and let rise over night; beat again; fill greased mufiin pans two- 
thirds full, let rise, and bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. Or place 
greased mulRn rings on a hot greased griddle, fill two-thirds full, 
and cook on top of range about twenty minutes, turning when hall 
cooked. 

Raised Corn Muffins 

Ingredients — 1 cup scalded milk, 4 tablespoons shortening, 4 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, i/4 yeast cake, i/4 cup lukewarm water, 
1 cup corn meal, 1% cups flour. 

Preparation — Add shortening, sugar, and salt to milk; when luke- 
warm add yeast dissolved in water, corn meal, and flour; beat well, 
let rise over night; beat well, half fill greased muffin rings, let rise 
until nearly double, and bake in hot oven half an hour. 

Raised Oatmeal Muffins (Uncooked Oats) 

Ingredients — 1 cup rolled oats, 1 cup scalded milk, 2 tablespoons 
shortening, 1 teaspoon salt, i/4 cup molasses, 1 egg, hi yeast cake, V4, 
cup lukewarm water, 2% cups flour. 

Preparation — Pour hot milk over oats, add shortening; when luke- 
warm add salt, molasses, egg well beaten, and yeast cake dissolved in 
lukewarm water; beat well, and add flour; beat well, and let rise over 
night; beat again, and half fill greased muffin pans; let rise until 
nearly double, and bake in a hot oven half an hour. 

Raised Roulettes 

Roll out to one-half inch thickness any roll or soft raised bread 
mixture; brush with melted butter, and spread vdth cinnamon and 
sugar, fruit, or any of the fillings used for Baking Powder Roulettes. 
Roll like a jelly roll until dough is about two and one-half inches in 
diameter, cut in half- inch slices with a sharp knife, place on greased 
sheet two inches apart, let rise until light, and bake in a hot oven 
twenty minutes. 



BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS AND BISCUITS 

Barley Bread 

Ingredients — 2 cups barley meal, 1 cup Graham flour, 1 cup white 
flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 6 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 2 cups milk. 

Preparation — Sift dry ingredients together, and mix well with milk; 
turn into a greased bread tin, let stand fifteen minutes, and bake in 
a moderate oven fifty minutes. Raisins, dates, figs, or nuts may be 
added. 



66 BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS AND BISCUITS 

Steamed Indian Date Bread 

Ingredients — 1% cups corn meal, 1 cup rye meal, % cup flour, 1% 
teaspoons soda, 1 teaspoon salt, % cup molasses, 1 cup water, 1 cup 
milk, 1 cup dates. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses, liquid, 
and dates which have been stoned and cut in pieces. Pour into greased 
one-pound baking powder boxes, and steam steadily for one and three- 
quarters hours. Or pour into a large greased mold and steam for 
three hours. 

Bran Bread 

Ingredients — 2 cups bran, 2 cups entire wheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 
V2 teaspoon soda, 5 teaspoons baking powder, V2 cup molasses, % cup 
water, % cup milk. 

Preparation — Sift flour, salt, soda, and baking powder, and add to 
bran; add molasses and liquid, and beat well; turn into a greased 
bread pan; let stand fifteen minutes, and bake in a moderate oven 
one hour. 

Date Bread 

Ingredients — 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup entire wheat flour, 1 cup white 
flour, IV2 teaspoons salt, ^^ teaspoon soda, 5 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, V4: cup molasses, 1 cup dates stoned and cut in pieces, % cup nut 
meats chopped, 1 egg well beaten, 1% cups milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add other ingredients 
in order given; mix well, turn into a greased bread pan, cover with a 
cloth, let stand fifteen minutes. 

Dark Nut Bread 

Ingredients — V4. cup sugar, % cup hot water, ^ cup molasses, % 
cup milk, 2 cups entire wheat flour, 1 cup bread flour, 5 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1% teaspoons salt, % teaspoon soda, % cup nut meats 
finely chopped. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, sifting dry materials together 
before adding. Turn into a greased bread pan, let stand fifteen min- 
utes, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

Quick Raisin Bread 

Ingredients — 2% cups entire wheat flour, % cup fine com meal, 6 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, H cup sugar, 1 beaten egg, 
1^/4 cups milk, 1 cup seeded raisins cut in halves. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg, milk, and rai- 
sins, and mix well; put into a greased bread pan, cover, and let stand 
fifteen minutes; bake in a moderate oven about fifty minutes. One 
cup of finely chopped nuts may be added. 

Bread Crumb Brown Bread 

Ingredients — 1% cups dried sifted crumbs, 1 cup boiling water, % 
cup molasses, 1 cup milk, Vz cup corn meal, 1 cup Graham flour, % 
teaspoon salt, 1^/^ teaspoon soda. 

Preparation — Put crumbs in mixing dish, add boiling water, and let 
stand ten minutes; add molasses, milk, and the dry ingredients sifted 
together. Steam the same as Steamed Indian Date Bread. 



BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS AND BISCUITS 67 

Baking Powder 

Ingredients — 1 pound, 2 ounces pure cream of tartar, Vz pound 
cooking soda, ^/4 pound cornstarch. 

Preparation — Mix and sift thoroughly four times, and store in 
closely covered jars. 

Com Bread (Without Eggs) 

Ingredients — % cup com meal, % cup flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
Vz teaspoon salt, % teaspoon soda, l^/^ cups buttermilk or sour milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients, add butlJermilk gradu- 
ally, and beat well; pour into well-greased shallow pan, and bake in 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

Country Corn Bread 

Ingredients — % cup com meal, % cup flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 tablespoon sugar, % teaspoon salt, 1 beaten egg, % cup 
milk and water mixed, 2 tablespoons melted bacon fat. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, beat well, and bake in a well- 
greased shallow pan in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Half of the 
egg will make a very good corn bread. Left-over pieces may be split, 
lightly buttered, and browned in the oven. 

Corn Muffins 

Ingredients — 1 cup com meal, 1 cup flour, 4 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, Vz teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup milk 
and water mixed, 4 tablespoons melted shortening. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, beat well, and bake in greased 
gem pans in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Corn and Rice Muffins 

Ingredients — 1 cup cooked rice, % cup hot milk, % cup com meal, 
2 tablespoons bacon fat, Vz teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 egg, 
Vz cup flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Preparation — Pour hot milk over rice, and work with a fork to 
separate grains; add com meal, bacon fat, salt, and sugar; when cool 
add egg well beaten, flour, and baking powder; beat well; bake in 
well-greased muffin pans in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Custard Corn Cake 

Ingredients — % cup corn meal, Vz cup flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
% teaspoon salt, % teaspoon soda, 1 cup sour milk, 1 egg, 2 table- 
spoons melted shortening, ^ cup sweet milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add sour milk and egg 
well beaten and beat thoroughly; melt shortening in an earthen bak- 
ing dish, pour in batter, pour the sweet milk over it, and bake in a 
hot oven twenty-five minutes. Cut in wedge-shaped pieces for serving. 

Blueberry Muffins 

Follow recipe for Cambridge Muffins; add one cup of blueberries 
just before putting into the pans. If canned blueberries are used, 
drain, and dredge with flour before adding to batter. 



68 BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS AND BISCUITS 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 2 tablespoons shortening, % cup milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in shortening until 
fine and crumbly, and add milk to form a soft dough; a little more 
or less may be required, according to the brand of flour used. Roll 
out on a slightly floured board until three-fourths of an inch thick, 
cut with small cutter, place on greased pan an inch apart, and bake 
in hot oven twelve minutes. For soft biscuit with little crust, place 
close together in the pan, and bake five minutes longer. Left-over 
biscuit may be split, lightly buttered, and browned in the oven. 

Rhode Island Corn Cake 

Ingredients — 1 cup white com meal, 1 cup flour, 4 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, Vz teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 egg, ^ cup 
melted shortening, 1 cup milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg yolk well beaten, 
shortening, and milk; beat well; fold in stiffly beaten white of egg, 
and bake in a greased shallow pan in hot oven about twenty minutes. 

Bran Muffins 

Ingredients — 2 cups bran, 1 cup flour, Vz teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
soda, Vz cup molasses, 1% cups milk, 1 tablespoon melted shortening. 

Preparation — Mix in order given; beat well, and bake in moderate 
oven about twenty-five minutes. These muffins are moist, keep well, 
and may be reheated successfully in a covered pan, either over steam 
or in the oven. 

Cambridge Muffins 

Ingredients — Vi cup shortening, ^A cup sugar, 1 egg, % cup milk, 
2 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, % teaspoon salt. 

Preparation— Cream the shortening; add the sugar and egg well 
beaten; beat well, add the milk, flour, baking powder, and salt, which 
have been sifted together; beat again, and bake in hot greased muffin 
pans twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Cheese Muffins 

Use recipe for Plain Muffins or any muffin recipe, omitting the 
sugar; cut cheese in half-inch cubes, and place three or four pieces 
on top of each muffin before baking. 

Cranberry Muffins 

Follow recipe for Cambridge Muffins, and add one cup of cranber- 
ries coarsely chopped. 

Crumb Muffins 

Ingredients — 1 cup dried and sifted bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon 
shortening, 1 tablespoon sugar, V2 teaspoon salt, V2 cup boiling 
water, 1 egg, Vz cup milk, % cup flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Preparation— Mix crumbs, shortening, sugar, salt, and boiling 
water- when cool add the egg well beaten, the milk, and bakmg pow^ 
der; beat well and bake in greased muffin pans twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS AND BISCUITS 69 

Date Muffins 

To recipe for Plain Muffins or Cambridge Muffins add one cup dates, 
stoned and cut in small pieces. 

Plain Muffins 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, % teaspoon 
salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons melted 
shortening. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, 
milk and shortening; beat well, and bake in greased muffin pans in 
moderate oven twenty minutes. For fruit muffins add one cup of 
figs, dates, or cooked prunes cut in pieces. 

Rye Muffins 

Ingredients — 1 cup rye flour, 1 cup white flour, % teaspoon salt, 
4 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons molasses, 1 egg, 2 table- 
spoons melted shortening, 1 cup milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses, egg well 
beaten, shortening, and milk; beat well, half fill greased muffin tins, 
and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. 

Sour Milk Muffins 

Ingredients — 1% cups flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, % teaspoon soda, 
Vz teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 1 cup thick sour milk, 2 tablespoons melted 
shortening. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, 
sour milk, and shortening; beat quickly, and bake in greased muffin 
pans in moderate oven twenty minutes. 

1 Buttermilk Muffins 

Follow recipe for Sour Milk Muffins, using buttermilk instead of 
sour milk. 

Sally Lunn 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, % teaspoon 
salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, Vi cup melted shortening. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add eggs well beaten, 
milk, and shortening; beat thoroughly, pour into shallow greased 
pan, and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 

Molasses Corn Bread 

Ingredients — 1 cup com meal, 1 cup flour, 4 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, % teaspoon salt, 1 egg, M cup molasses, 1 cup water, 2 table- 
spoons melted bacon fat. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, 
molasses, water, and bacon fat; beat well, pour into a well-greased 
shallow pan, and bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Bacon Sandwich Rolls 

Follow recipe for Corn Meal Rolls, putting a piece of cooked bacon 
on half of roll before folding. 



70 BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS AND BISCUITS 

Corn Meal Rolls 

Ingredients — 1 cup com meal, 1 cup flour, 4 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, y^ teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons bacon fat, % cup milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; rub in shortening with 
finger tips; add milk and mix thoroughly; roll lightly, on a floured 
board to a thickness of one-half inch; cut with biscuit cutter, brush 
with milk or water, and fold double. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Date Rolls 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit, roll out one-half inch thick, 
and cut in rounds with three-inch cutter; spread with soft butter, 
sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar, and put a date, split lengthwise 
and stoned, on half of each roll; fold over, press edges firmly together, 
brush with milk, and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. Allow one- 
half teaspoon cinnamon to two tablespoons sugar. Cooked and stoned 
prunes or chopped figs may be used instead of dates. 

Quick Coffee Cake 

Ingredients — ^/4 cup shortening, %, cup sugar, 1 ^^.z, 1 cup milk 
and water mixed, % cup seedless raisins, 2% cups flour, 5 teaspoons 
baking powder, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon. 

Preparation — Cream the shortening and sugar; add egg well beaten, 
milk, raisins, flour, baking powder, and salt; spread in a greased 
shallow pan, brush with melted butter, and sprinkle with cinnamon 
and sugar; bake in hot oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Quick Drop Biscuit 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit, increasing the milk to one 
cupful; drop from a tablespoon on a greased pan two inches apart, 
and bake in a hot oven ten minutes; or half fill greased muffin tins, 
and bake twelve minutes. 

Entire Wheat Biscuit 

Follow recipe for Oatmeal Waffles, using one cup of com meal mush 
in place of white flour, and adding one tablespoon of molasses. 

Fruit Tea Biscuit 

To recipe for Quick Drop Biscuit add one chopped apple, one-half 
cup of seeded and chopped raisins, two tablespoons of washed cur- 
rants, and two tablespoons of sugar. Put into hot greased muffin 
pans, and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. Serve for tea, or with 
a hot liquid sauce for dessert. 

Graham Biscuit 

Ingredients — 1 cup graham flour, % cup com meal, % cup bran, 4 
teaspoons baking powder, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons shortening, 
1 tablespoon molasses, % cup milk. 

Mix dry ingredients without sifting; rub in shortening with finger 
tips; add molasses and milk; mix well; roll, cut, and bake as directed 
for Baking Powder Biscuit. 



POPOVERS AND PUFFS WITHOUT BAKING POWDER 71 

Jam Rolls 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons shortening, 1 egg, % cup milk. 

Preparation — Sift together flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar; 
rub in shortening with finger tips until mealy; add beaten egg and 
milk, and mix with a knife to a soft dough; roll out one-third of an 
inch thick, and cut with a round cutter; put a teaspoon of jam on 
each, moisten the edges with water, fold over, and press firmly 
together; make two cuts on top so that jam will show, brush with 
milk, and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Potato Scones 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, V2 teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons baking 
powder, 1 cup mashed potato, 2 tablespoons shortening, % cup milk. 

Preparation — Sift flour, salt, and baking powder; add potato and 
shortening, and work in with finger tips; add milk, and mix to a 
soft dough with a knife; roll out three-quarters of an inch thick on 
floured board, cut with biscuit cutter, and cook on hot greased griddle 
about twenty minutes, turning over when half cooked. Split, butter, 
and serve hot. 

Scotch Scones 

Ingredients — 1 cup fine oatmeal, % cup scalded milk, 2 tablespoons 
shortening, 1 cup flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 
2 tablespoons sugar. 

Preparation — Pour hot milk over oatmeal, mix well, add shorten- 
ing, and let stand until cold; mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt, 
and sugar; add to oatmeal, and mix well; roll out three-fourths of 
an inch thick, cut in rounds, and cook on a greased griddle about 
twenty minutes, turning when half cooked. 



WITHOUT BAKING POWDER OR YEAST 

Popovers 

Ingredients — 1 cup flour, ^/4 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoon melted butter. 

Preparation — Sift flour and salt; beat egg very light, and mix with 
milk; mix gradually with flour; add melted butter, and beat two min- 
utes with a strong egg beater; pour into hot greased popover cups or 
pans, and bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty minutes, according to 
size of pans. The mixture should be very cold, and the pans and oven 
very hot. 

Entire Wheat Popovers 

Ingredients — % cup entire wheat flour, % cup com meal, % tea- 
spoon salt, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon melted butter. 

Preparation — Follow directions for mixing and baking Popovers. 

Graham Popovers 

Follow recipe for Entire Wheat Popover, except that Graham flour 
should be used in place of entire wheat. 



72 SHORT CAKES AND ROULETTES 

Breakfast Puffs 

Ingredients — 1 cup entire wheat flour, H teaspoon salt, 1 cup ice 
water. 

Preparation — Sift flour and salt, add ice water gradually, and beat 
three minutes with strong egg beater; bake in hot iron pans in very 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

Maryland Beaten Biscuit 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons shorten- 
ings, cold water. 

Preparation — Sift flour and salt, rub in shortening with tips of 
fingers, and add enough cold water to make a stiff dough; knead until 
smooth, and beat with the rolling pin fifteen minutes, or until dough 
blisters; roll out about one-third of an inch thick, cut with a small 
round cutter, prick with a fork, place on a greased baking pan, and 
chill in the ice-box for half an hour; bake about twenty-five minutes, 
having the oven very hot for the first ten minutes. A biscuit break 
may be used instead of rolling-pin. 



SHORT CAKES AND ROULETTES 

Shortcake 

Ingredients — 1% cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, Vs tea- 
spoon salt, 3 tablespoons shortening, % cup milk. 

Preparation — Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt; rub in 
shortening with finger tips; add milk, and mix well with a knife. 
Spread in two greased layer-cake pans, patting with the back of a 
tablespoon until pans are evenly filled. Bake in a hot oven twelve 
minutes. If individual shortcakes are preferred, roll, cut with a 
biscuit cutter, and bake quickly about fifteen minutes; split, and put 
filling between and on top. 

Apple and Cranberry Shortcake 

Ingredients — 4 apples, % cup cranberries, Vz cup water, Vz cup 
sugar, 2 teaspoons cornstarch, 2 tablespoons sultana raisins, a few 
gratings of orange peel. 

Preparation — Core and slice apples, add cranberries and water; 
cook ten minutes, and press through a sieve; mix sugar and cornstarch, 
stir into fruit; add raisins and grated rind, and simmer ten minutes; 
spread between and on top of shortcake, and gai^ish with a few 
raisins. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Prepare Shortcake; hull one box of berries, and save out a few of 
the largest; mash the remainder, and add about one-half cup of 
sugar; pour half of berries over hot shortcake, put on second layer, 
and cover with remaining berries; garnish with large whole berries, 
and serve with or without plain cream. Blackberry, Raspberry, Cur- 
rant, or Blueberry Shortcake may be made in the same way, the 
amount of sugar necessary depending upon the acidity of the fruTt. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 73 

Date and Apple Shortcake 

Ingredients — % pound dates, 4 tart apples, V2 cup water, Vs cup 
sugar, V4: teaspoon nutmeg. 

Preparation — Wash and stone dates, and cut in pieces; pare, core, 
and slice apples; simmer with dates, water, sugar, and nutmeg until 
thick enough to spread. Spread between and on top of Shortcake. 

Banana Shortcake 

Prepare Shortcake, slice two small bananas over layer of hot short- 
cake, and sprinkle with lemon juice and powdered sugar; put on 
upper layer, cover with two more sliced bananas, sprinkle with lemon 
juice and sugar and garnish with bits of jelly. 

Prune and Apple Shortcake 

Ingredients — 1*^ cups prunes, 2 apples pared and chopped, Vs cup 
sugar, 2 teaspoons cornstarch, grated rind of V2 lemon. 

Preparation — Wash prunes and soak over night in cold water to 
cover; cook in same water until tender; remove stones and return to 
water in which they were cooked; add apple, and heat to boiling point; 
add sugar mixed with cornstarch, and grated rind; cook about ten 
minutes, or until thick. Prepare recipe for Shortcake, and put sauce 
between and on top. 

Roulettes 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit, turn on floured board, roll 
out one-half inch thick, brush with soft butter, and spread with any 
of the following mixture; then roll firmly like a jelly roll until dough 
is about two and one-half inches in diameter; cut in one-half -inch 
slices with a sharp knife, place on a greased sheet two inches apart, 
and bake in a hot oven twelve minutes. 

Cheese Roulettes: Spread with four tablespoons of grated cheese 
seasoned with salt and cayenne. 

Devilled Ham Roulettes: Spread lightly with devilled ham, or any 
finely chopped and well-seasoned meat. 

Marmalade Roulettes: Spread lightly with any marmalade or jam. 

Peanut Butter Roulettes: Spread with peanut butter and dust 
lightly with salt; sprinkle with salt before baking. 

Raisin and Nut Roulettes: Spread with mixture of one-half cup 
of seeded and chopped raisins and one-fourth cup finely chopped nut 
meats. 

Fruit Roulettes: Spread with currants, chopped citron, figs, dates, 
prunes, or candied ginger. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 

Baked Bean and Lettuce Sandwiches 

Press cold baked beans through a sieve; spread bread with butter, 
cover with a lettuce leaf, cover lettuce with beans, and sprinkle beans 
with chopped mustard pickle. Cover with a second piece of buttered 
bread. Brown bread or any dark bread may be used. 



74 SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 

Celery and Egg 

Ingredients — 1 cup chopped celery, 1 hard-cooked egg, M: cup 
mayonnaise. 

Preparation — Put celery and egg through the food chopper, using 
finest cutter; add mayonnaise, and salt if necessary; spread between 
thin slices of buttered brown bread. 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

Mix equal parts of grated American cheese and chopped nut meats; 
season with salt and cayenne, moisten with cream, and spread between 
thin buttered slices of bread. 

Cheese Club Sandwiches 

Cut bread in half-inch slices, remove crusts, spread with Mustard 
Butter, cover with a lettuce leaf, spread with salad dressing, cover 
with cheese cut in thin slices, sprinkle with chopped mixed pickles, 
and cover with a second slice of bread spread with mustard butter. 
Cut in quarters diagonally. 

Chicken Sandwiches (Open) 

Ingredients — 1 cup finely chopped chicken, dash of cayenne, dash 
of celery salt, % teaspoon salt, % cup salad dressing. 

Preparation — Season with chicken, add the dressing, and beat well. 
Butter circles of white bread, and spread with the chicken, mounding 
it in the center. Garnish with slices of pimolas, 

Giblet Sandwiches 

Cook giblets until tender, put through food chopper, and mix with 
salad dressing. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. A let- 
tuce leaf may be added. 

Ham and Cheese Sandwiches (Hot) 

Spread thin buttered slices of stale bread with finely chopped ham; 
cover with thin slices of American cheese; cover with another slice 
of bread with ham, and saute in a little butter until brown. These 
sandwiches may be toasted if preferred. 

Marshmallow Sandwiches 

Toast marshmallows and press while hot between ginger snaps, 
vanilla wafers, or butter thins. 

Mock Crab Sandwiches 

Ingredients — 1 cup young American cheese cut fine, 3 tablespoons 
milk, 1 teaspoon anchovy paste, % teaspoon paprika. 

Preparation — Mix cheese to a paste with milk, anchovy, and paprika; 
spread between thin buttered slices of brown bread. 
Raisin Bread and Cheese Sandwiches 

Cut raisin bread in thin slices, and spread with Cottage Cheese 
mixed to a paste with a little fruit juice or cream. Trim neatly and 
cut in triangles. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 75 

Peanut Sandwich Filling 

Put freshly roasted peanuts through the food chopper, using the 
finest cutter, season with salt, and mix to a smooth paste with cream; 
or dilute peanut butter with a little milk until of consistency to 
spread easily. 

Mustard Butter 

Ingredients — % cup butter, 1 teaspoon dry English mustard, a few 
drops of vinegar or" lemon juice, a few grains of cayenne. 

Preparation — Cream the butter, add the mustard and seasonings, 
and beat well. 

Brewis 

Ingredients — 1 cup brown bread crumbled, 1 cup white bread 
crumbled, 1 cup milk, Vs teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Preparation — Put crumbled bread in a shallow pan in a slow oven 
until browned; put in a saucepan with milk, salt, and butter, and 
cook about ten minutes, beating well. Serve as cereal or dessert. 
Left-over corn bread or muffins may be used. 

Brown Bread Toast with Cheese and Bacon 

Toast brown bread, or crisp in the oven, dip quickly into hot salted 
water, and arrange on serving dish. Make a Sauce for Cream Toast, 
add to it one-half cup of cheese cut fine, pour over toast, and put a 
piece of crisp bacon on each piece. 

Celery Toast 

Ingredients — 2 cups celery cut in half-inch pieces, Vs teaspoon pep- 
per, Vs cup flour, 3 cups hot stock or water, % cup milk, salt, 
6 slices toast. 

Preparation — Cook celery in stock or water about hali an hour, or 
until tender; add salt (if necessary), pepper and flour mixed to a 
paste with the milk; stir until thickened, and simmer fifteen minutes; 
pour over toast, and garnish with toast points and celery tips. Use 
the coarser unbleached pieces of celery for cooking. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Cut stale bread into thin slices, remove crusts, and cut in halves; 
toast evenly, and spread first with butter, then with honey, and dust 
with cinnamon. Serve very hot. 

Sauce for Cream Toast 

Ingredients — 2 cups rnilk, % cup cold water, 3 tablespoons flour, 
Vz teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Preparation — Scald the milk; mix the flour to a smooth paste with 
water, add to milk and stir until thickened; cook over hot water 
fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; add salt and butter, and pour 
over toast. 

Cheese Toast 

To I'ecipe for Cream Toast add one-half cup of either soft cheese 
cut fine or grated chpese. 



76 SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 

Cream Toast 

Cut six slices of bread in halves, toast slowly, or put into a mod- 
erate oven until light brown and crisp, dip each piece into Sauce lor 
Cream Toast, and put into a covered serving dish; pour over remain- 
ing sauce, and cover for two or three minutes before serving. 

French Toast 

Ingredients — 1 egg slightly beaten, 1 tablespoon sugar, V4, teaspoon 
salt, % cup milk or coffee, 4 slices bread. 

Preparation — Mix egg, salt, sugar, and liquid in a shallow dish; soak 
bread in mixture, and cook on a hot, greased griddle until brown, 
turning when half cooked. Serve plain or spread with jam. 

Goldenr»d Ham Toast 

Follow recipe for Cream Toaat; to the sauce add one-half cup finely 
chopped ham and the finely chopped white of two hard-cooked egga. 
When toast is in the serving dish, sprinkle with the hard-cooked yolka 
rubbed through a sieve. 

Sunday Toast 

Cut whole wheat bread into four one-inch slices, remove crusts, but- 
ter, and cut bread into three strips; mix one-third cup of brown sugar, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, two tablespoons of seeded and chopped 
raisins, and a tablespoon of milk; spread paste on bread, and bake in a 
hot oven until brown. Serve hot. 

Tomato Cream Toast with Egg 

Ingredients — Vz can tomato, % cup cold water, Vs teaspoon salt, % 
cup hot milk, V3 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
2 hard-cooked eggs, 4 tablespoons flour, 6 slices toast. 

Preparation — Simmer tomato for fifteen minutes and press through 
a sieve; add salt, soda, and sugar; heat to a boiling point, and thicken 
with flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold water; cook five minutes, 
and add hot milk and butter. Dip toast in sauce, place on platter, cover 
with remaining sauce, and garnish with egg cut into eighths length- 
wise. 

To Freshen Stale Loaf Bread, Rolls, MufiSns, or Doughnuts 

Dip quickly into cold water, put in a paper bag, fold top of bag 
firmly, and place in a hot oven until heated through. 

Buttered Crumbs 

Melt two tablespoons of butter, stir in one-half cup of coarse, dried 
bread crumbs until butter is absorbed. 

Croustades 

Cut stale bread in slices about an inch and a half thick, remove 
crusts, and cut in rounds, squares, triangles, or any shape desired; re- 
move the centers, using a small, sharp knife, and leaving a wall one- 
third of an inch thick; brush with melted butter, and brown in oven; 
or fry, inverted, in hot, deep fat. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, WAFFLES AND SIRUPS 77 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in one-third-inch slices, cut slices into cubes, and 
brown in the oven or fry in deep fat. Cold toast may be used instead 
of bread. 

Crisp Sticks 

Cut stale bread in half-inch slices, remove crusts, spread lightly 
with butter, cut in half-inch sticks, and put in slow oven until light 
bro\Mi and crisp. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, WAFFLES AND SIRUPS 

Plain Griddle Cakes 

Ingredients — IV^ cups flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 3 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 egg well beaten, 1 tablespoon melted shortening, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, V2 cup milk, % cup water. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, 
shortening, and liquid; beat well, and cook on a hot griddle. The 
cakes should be small and should be served very hot with butter and 
sirup. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons sugar, % teaspoon salt, 2 
cups thick sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 egg well beaten. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk and egg, and 
beat well; cook the same as Plain Griddle Cakes. 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

Ingredients — 1% cups com meal, 1 tablespoon molasses, V2 cup flour, 
1 egg well beaten, 4 teaspoons baking powder, % cup milk, % cup 
water, % teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon melted shortening. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, beat well, and cook on a hot, 
greased griddle. If all of the batter is not needed at once, cover what 
is left, and keep in a cold place; add one-half teaspoon of baking 
powder, and beat vigorously before using; or half of the recipe may 
be used and the extra half egg used in some other way. 

Dried Crumb Griddle Cakes 

Ingredients — 1 cup dried and sifted bread crumbs, 4 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 egg, % teaspoon salt, 
IM cups milk. 

Preparation — Mix and cook according to directions for Plain Griddle 
Cakes. Half milk and half water may be used. 

Waffles 

Ingredients — 1% cups flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, % teaspoon salt, 1 
egg well beaten, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup milk, 3 tablespoons 
melted shortening. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg, milk, and 
shortening, and beat well; cook in a hot, well-greased waffle iron. 



78 GRIDDLE CAKES, WAFFLES AND SIRUPS 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

Ingredients — 1 cup cooked rice, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 egg 
well beaten, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 cup milk, Y2 teaspoon salt, 1 cup 
flour, few gratings nutmeg. 

Preparation — Mix rice and egg thoroughly with a fork, add milk, 
and dry ingredients mixed and sifted together; beat well, and cook 
the same as Plain Griddle Cakes. 

Raised Buckwheat Cakes 

Ingredients — 1 cup boiling water, ^ cup lukewarm water, V2 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 cup buckwheat flour, 1 tablespoon molasses, V4, cup white 
flour, V2 yeast cake, V2 teaspoon soda. 

Preparation — Mix boiling water, salt, and molasses, and when luke- 
warm add yeast dissolved in lukewarm water; add gradually to flour, 
and beat well; let rise over night, add soda, beat well, and cook the 
same as Plain Griddle Cakes. 

Corn Meal Waffles 

Follow directions for Baking Powder Biscuit, using entire wheat 
flour in place of oatmeal. 

Oatmeal Waffles 

Ingredients — 1 cup cooked oatmeal, 1 cup entire wheat flour, yolks 
of 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup milk, V2 teaspoon salt, 
2 tablespoons melted shortening, 1 tablespoon sugar, whites of two 
eggs. 

Preparation — Mix oatmeal and yolks of eggs (which have been 
beaten very light) until there are no lumps in the mixture; add milk, 
shortening, and dry ingredients sifted together; beat well, and fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Cook in a hot, well-greased 
waffle iron. 

Rice Waffles 

To recipe for Waffles add one-half cup of cooked rice, mixing the 
rice thoroughly with the beaten egg before adding. 

Brown Sugar Sirup 
Boil one cup of brown sugar and one-half cup of water until the 
consistency of thick maple sirup. Serve hot or cold. 

Cider Sirup 
Ingredients — 1% cups cider, 1 cup sugar. 

Preparation — Heat cider, add sugar, and boil until a thick sirup is 
formed, skimming when necessary. Serve hot or cold. 

Lemon Sirup 
Boil one cup of sugar, one-half cup of water, and one tablespoon of 
lemon juice until the consistency of thick maple sirup; add one tea- 
spoon of butter, and serve hot. 

Orange Sirup 
Ingredients — % cup orange juice, 1 cup sugar, grated rind % orange. 
Preparation — Boil orange juice and sugar until mixture has the 
consistency of thick maple sirup, add rind, and serve hot or cold. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 79 

CAKES AND COOKIES 

Petit Due 

Ingredients are : Whites of 5 eggs, 5 oz, sugar, 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. soft 
butter, 3 oz. crushed almonds. 

The directions are : Mix the flour and sugar and add the butter. Stir 
ten minutes, then add almonds. Add whites of eggs beaten very stiff. 
The paste must be very smooth and the work done quickly. 

This is poured into a buttered cake pan to a depth of half an inch. 
Place in a low-heated oven. After fifteen minutes sprinkle one ounce 
crushed almonds over cake. Bake for one-half hour more at slightly 
higher temperature. Turn the cake out when entirely cool. 

Apple Sauce Cake (Without Butter, Eggs or Milk) 

Ingredients — 1 cup unsweetened apple sauce, 2 cups flour, Vz cup 
melted shortening, y^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon soda, Vz teaspoon nutmeg, 1 cup raisins seeded and 
chopped, Vi teaspoon clove. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, sifting dry ingredients together, 
beat well, pour into a deep pan, and bake about one hour in a slow 
oven. 

Canada War Cake (Without Butter, Eggs or Milk) 

Ingredients — 1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, M cup short- 
ening, Vz teaspoon mace, 1 cup boiling water, V^ teaspoon clove, 2 cups 
seeded raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, % teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour. 

Preparation — Pdix sugar, shortening, water, raisins, and salt; boil 
five minutes; cool, and add spices, soda, and flour sifted together, 
beat well; pour into a greased, paper-lined pan, and bake in a slow 
oven one hour. 

(The amount of soda in these recipes is based upon the use of old- 
fashioned jug molasses; canned molasses varies greatly in acidity and, 
especially when freshly opened, requires little or no soda. If canned 
molasses is used, therefore, baking powder should wholly or partly 
take the place of soda.) 

Date Cake 

Ingredients — Vz cup melted shortening, 1% cups flour, l^^, cups 
brown sugar, ZVz teaspoons baking powder, 1 egg unbeaten, Vz tea- 
spoon mace, Yz cup milk, 1 cup dates stoned and chopped. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, and beat vigorously for three or 
four minutes; bake in two layer-cake pans in a moderate oven for 
twenty-five minutes; when partly cool spread with tart jelly, and 
sprinkle top layer with powdered sugar. 

One-Egg Cake 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons butter, l^ cup milk, % cup sugar, 1% 
cups flour, 1 egg, 2^4 teaspoons baking powder, grated rind of 1 lemon. 

Preparation — Cream the butter, add the sugar and the well-beaten 
egg; beat thoroughly, add the other ingredients in the order given, 
and bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. 



80 CAKES AND COOKIES 

Old-fashioned Pork Cake 

Ingredients — Vz pound fat salt pork, i/4 pound citron shredded, 1 
cup boiling water, 1 nutmeg grated, 1 cup molasses, 2 teaspoons cin- 
namon, 1 cup sugar, Vz teaspoon cloves, 2 eggs beaten, % teaspoon 
allspice, V^ pound raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, Vz pound currants, 4 cups 
flour. 

Preparation — Put pork through meat chopper, using finest cutter; 
add boiling water and let stand fifteen minutes; add molasses, sugar, 
eggs, and fruit, and mix well; add dry ingredients, which have been 
sifted together; beat well; pour into two deep greased and paper- 
lined pans; and bake in a slow oven two hours. This cake keeps well 
if stored in a covered stone crock. It may be reheated in the top of 
double boiler, and served hot with pudding sauce. 

Fudge Cake 

Ingredients — 1/4 cup shortening, 1/2 cup milk, 1 cup brown sugar, 
Wz cups flour, 1 square chocolate, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 egg 
well beaten, ^/4 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Cream shortening, add sugar, and beat well; add 
chocolate melted and egg; beat again; add milk; add flour, baking 
powder, and salt sifted together; beat for two minutes. Pour into 
two greased layer-cake pans and bake in a moderate oven about 
eighteen minutes. Fill, and spread top with Fudge Filling. 

Orange Cake 

Ingredients — 1/4 cup shortening, 1/2 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, Wz cups 
flour, 1 Q.^^, 2% teaspoons baking powder, grated rind Vz orange. 

Preparation — Cream the shortening, add sugar and egg well beaten; 
add milk, flour, baking powder, and rind; beat well, and bake in two 
layer pans about twenty minutes in moderate oven. Fill and cover 
top with Orange Icing. 

Plain Cake 

Ingredients — % cup shortening, 1% cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 eggs, few grains salt, % cup milk, Vz tea- 
spoon lemon extract. 

Preparation — Beat shortening and sugar until light and creamy; 
add eggs well beaten, flour, baking powder, salt, and extract; beat 
well, pour into a greased and papered cake pan, and bake about half 
an hour in a moderate oven, or in two layer-cake pans about twenty 
minutes. This is an excellent foundation cake for use with various 
flavorings, icings, and fillings. 

Spice Cake (Without Egg) 

Ingredients — % cup shortening, % teaspoon nutmeg, 1 cup sugar, 
1/4 teaspoon cloves, 1 cup sour milk, i/4 teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour, 1 
cup raisins seeded and chopped, 1 teaspoon soda, Wz teaspoons cin- 
namon. 

Preparation — Cream shortening and sugar, add sour milk; add dry 
ingredients sifted together; beat well; add raisins, pour into a greased 
shallow pan, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Dust with 
confectioners' sugar or cover -wdth plain icing. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 81 

White Cake 

Ingredients — Whites of 2 eggs, 1% cups flour, melted butter, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder, milk, % cup sugar, V2 teaspoon almond extract. 

Preparation — Break the whites of eggs into a measuring cup; add 
melted butter to half fill cup; add milk to fill cup. Mix and sift flour, 
baking powder, and sugar; combine mixtures, add flavoring, and beat 
for five minutes. Bake in a shallow cake pan half an hour, or in 
muflUn tins about twenty minutes, in a moderate oven. 

Sponge Cake (Hot water) 

Ingredients — Yolks of 2 eggs, whites of 2 eggs, ^/4 cup hot water, 
1 cup flour, % cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, grated rind 1 
lemon, ^A teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Beat the yolks of eggs until thick and light, add the 
water and sugar, and beat three minutes vdth the egg beater; add the 
lemon rind and the whites stiffly beaten; sift flour, baking powder, 
and salt, and fold in carefully. Pour into a shallow pan, and bake in 
a moderate oven twenty-five minutes. 

Velvet Sponge Cake 

Ingredients — 2 eggs, Vz cup pastry flour, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, % teaspoon salt, grated rind 1 lemon, V4, cup potato 
flour, Vs cup hot milk. 

Preparation — Beat eggs until very light, add sugar gradually, and 
continue beating with the egg beater; mix and sift salt, flour, and 
baking powder; add half to the eggs and sugar, and beat well; add 
rest of flour, and beat again; add rind and milk, and beat hard; poor 
into a deep pan, and bake forty minutes in a slow oven. 

Cream Pie 

Follow rule for Jelly Roll Cake; bake in two layers, and fill with 
Cream Filling. 

Cake for Jelly Roll or Charlotte Russe 

Ingredients — 2 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1^^ tea- 
spoons baking powder, Vs cup hot water, iy4 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Beat the eggs very light, add sugar gradually, and 
continue beating; add water, flour, baking powder, and salt. Pour 
into a greased, paper-lined dripping pan and bake in a moderate oven 
about fifteen minutes. The cake Should be about half an inch thick 
when baked. Trim off the edges, spread with jam or jelly, and roll 
firmly; wrap in a paper napkin to keep in shape. For Charlotte Russe 
cut cake into pieces to fit paper cases, and fill with Charlotte Russe 
Mixture. 

Ginger Gems 

Ingredients — V2 cup molasses, l^/^ cups flour, V4, cup brown sugar, 
1 teaspoon soda, % cup shortening, 1 teaspoon ginger, V2 cup boiling 
water, V2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 beaten egg, Vi teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, sifting the dry ingredients to- 
gether; beat well, pour into greased muffin tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven twenty minutes. 



82 CAKES AND COOKIES 

Chocolate Marshmallow Roll 

To recipe for Jelly Roll add two squares of melted chocolate. Bake 
as for jelly roll, trim edges, spread with Marshmallow Filling', and roll 
the same as jelly roll. 

Hot Water Gingerbread (without Egg) 

Ingredients — % cup shortening', 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup dark 
molasses, % teaspoon salt, % cup i)oiling water, 1% teaspoons ginger, 
2 cups bread flour, V^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

Preparation — Mix shortening, molasses, and water; add dry ingredi- 
ents sifted together, and beat well. Pour into greased muffin pans 
and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes; or pour into a greased 
shallow pan and bake tv/enty-flve minutes. 

Hot Water Gingerbread (with Egg) 

Ingredients — % cup beef drippings, 2% cups flour, % cup boiling 
water, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup dark molasses, V^ teaspoon salt, 1 &z?. 
well beaten, IV^ teaspoons ginger. 

Preparation — Pour boiling water over shortening, add molasses and 
^^Z\ mix and sift dry ingredients, add to first mixture, and beat well. 
Pour into a shallow, greased cake pan, and bake in a moderate oven 
twenty-five minutes. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

Ingredients — 2 cups flour, % teaspoon salt, 1% teaspoon soda, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 cup thick sour milk, 1 ^-g^ well beaten. 

Preparation — Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses, milk, and 
^%^, and beat well; pour into a greased pan, and bake in a moderate 
oven twenty-five minutes. 

Ginger Apple Cake 

Follow any recipe for gingerbread, bake in two layers, and put 
Apple Filling between layers and on top. 

Bran Drop Cookies 

Ingredients — 1 cup bran, % teaspoon clove, ^/^ cup flour, V^ cup 
molasses, i/4 teaspoon salt, 1^4 cup sugar, i/4 teaspoon soda, Vi. cup 
melted shortening, % teaspoon cinnamon, 1^4 cup milk. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, drop from tablespoon, two inches 
apart, on greased pan, and bake in a hot oven twelve minutes. 

Cheese Drops 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons butter, Va teaspoon salt, % cup grated 
cheese, % teaspoon paprika, % cup dried and sifted crumbs, % tea- 
spoon mustard, few grains cayenne, whites of 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Cream butter and cheese together; mix crumbs with 
seasonings and add to cheese; fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 
Drop from a teaspoon on a greased baking sheet about two inches 
apart, and bake in a moderate oven about twelve minutes. Serve with 
soup or salad. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 83 

Cheese Wafers 

Ingredients — 1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon shortening, ^/4 teaspoon salt, 
% cup grated cheese, Vz teaspoon paprika, %, cup cold water. 

Preparation — Mix and sift flour, salt, and paprika; rub in shorten- 
ing with finger tips; add cheese and mix to a stiff paste with cold 
water; roll out very thin, cut with a small round cutter, place on a 
greased baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven five or six minutes. 
Serve with salad or soup. 

Chocolate Cookies 

Ingredients — 2 squares chocolate, M: cup milk, V^ cup shortening, 2 
cups flour, 1 cup brown sugar, IVz teaspoons baking powder, 1 egg 
well beaten, ^/^ teaspoon salt, V^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

Preparation — Put chocolate with shortening in mixing bowl and 
place over hot water until melted : add other ingredients in order given. 
Chill, roll thin, and cut with fancy cutter. Bake in a moderate oven 
about ten minutes. 

Ginger Wafers 

Ingredients — % cup shortening, % teaspoon soda, 1 cup brown 
sugar, % teaspoon salt, 2^/4 cups bread flour, \y^ teaspoon ginger, % 
cup milk. 

Preparation — Cream shortening and sugar; sift soda, salt, and 
ginger with flour, and add alternately with milk; chill; roll thin on 
baking sheet; mark in squares, and bake in a moderate oven eight or 
ten minutes. Remove from pan while warm. 

Marshmallow Wafers 

Arrange thin crackers or v/afers on a baking sheet, place a mash- 
mallow on each one, and bake in a moderate oven for a few minutes 
until marshmallows melt; into each one press half a nut meat, raisin, 
cherry, or a bit of candied fruit. 

Molasses Brownies 

Ingredients — % cup shortening, 1 beaten q^%, Vs cup sugar, Vz tea- 
spoon baking powder, % cup molasses, 1 cup flour, 2 squares melted 
chocolate, % cup chopped nut meats. 

Preparation — Cream the shortening, add other ingredients in order 
given, drop from spoon on greased pan, and bake about twelve minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Raisin Drop Cookies 

Ingredients — ^3 tablespoons shortening, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
Vz cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 egg well beaten, Yz cup 
raisins seeded and chopped, 2 tablespoons milk, 1 cup flour. 

Preparation — Cream the shortening and sugar; add egg and milk, 
and beat well; add flour, baking powder, and cinnamon sifted together; 
add raisins; beat well, drop from a teaspoon two inches apart on a 
greased baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven about twelve min- 
utes. 



84 ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

Peanut Macaroons 

Ingredients — White of 1 egg, 1 cup powdered sugar, Vs teaspoon 
salt, 1 cup finely chopped peanuts. 

Preparation — Add salt to the egg, and beat until stiff; add sugar and 
nuts, and mix well; drop from a teaspoon on a greased baking sheet 
two inches apart, and bake in a slow oven fifteen minutes. 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

Ingredients — 1 egg, 1 cup rolled oats, V2 cup sugar, % cup shredded 
cocoanut, 1 tablespoon melted butter, % teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Beat egg until light, add other ingredients in order 
given, beat well, and drop from spoon on greased pan; bake about 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 

Walnut Wafers 

Ingredients — 2 eggs, % teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup brown sugar, */4 
teaspoon salt, V2 cup flour, Vz teaspoon baking powder, % cup chopped 
nut meats. 

Preparation — Beat eggs until light; add sugar, and beat well; add 
dry ingredients sifted together, beat well, add nuts, pour into a 
greased dripping pan, and bake in a moderate oven about ten minutes. 
Cut in squares while hot. Mixture may be baked in tiny scalloped 
tins if preferred. 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

Boiled Icings* 

Ingredients — Vs cup boiling water, % teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 cup 
sugar, white of 1 egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Boil water and sugar to 240° F., or until the sirup 
forms soft ball when tried in cold water; add cream of tartar and 
vanilla, and pour slowly upon the stiffly beaten white of egg, beating 
constantly until thick enough to spread without running. For caramel 
flavor melt one-third of the sugar first. 

Caramel Icing 

Ingredients — 1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, Vs cup milk, 
few grains salt. 

Preparation — Put ingredients in saucepan, and boil to 240° F., or 
until a soft ball can be formed when tested in cold water. Beat until 
creamy, and spread while warm. Chopped nut meats may be added. 

Coffee Icing 

Follow directions for Boiled Icing, using strong coffee in place of 
water. Or to recipe for Quick Icing or Cream Icing add one teaspoon 
of instantaneous coffee. 

*The sirup should be boiled in a small saucepan; otherwise the bulb 
of the thermometer will not be covered. 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 85 



Chocolate Icing 

Ingredients — 2 squares chocolate, confectioners' sugar, ^A cup boil- 
ing water, Vz teaspoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Melt chocolate, add boiling water, and mix well; add 
confectioners' sugar until of right consistency to spread; add vanilla 
and beat well. Coffee may be used in place of water. 

Cocoa Icing 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons cocoa, 2 tablespoons 
milk, confectioners' sugar. 

Preparation — Heat butter and milk in a saucepan, remove from fire, 
add cocoa, and enough confectioners' sugar to thicken. About one cup 
of sugar will be required. 

Cream Icing 

Ingredients — IM cups confectioners' sugar, heavy cream, V^ teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Preparation — Sift sugar and add cream until the right consistency 
to spread (about two tablespoons) add flavoring, and beat well. 

Orange Icing 

Ingredients — Juice of V2 orange, grated rind of % orange, confec- 
tioners' sugar. 

Preparation — Mix sugar with orange juice and rind until icing is 
firm enough to spread. 

Quick Icing 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon butter, confectioners' sugar, 2 tablespoons 
boiling water, M teaspoon flavoring. 

Preparation — Pour boiling water over butter; stir in sugar enough 
to thicken; add extract, and beat well before spreading. (A little more 
than one cup of sugar will usually be required.) 

Apple Filling 

Ingredients — 3 baked apples, white of 1 egg, 1 cup confectioners' 
sugar. 

Preparation — Press apples through a sieve; beat white of egg until 
stiff; add half of sugar, and beat well; add apple and remaining sugar 
gradually, and beat until very light. Spread between layers and on 
top of cake. Two tablespoons of tart jelly may be beaten with the 
apple. 

Coffee Cream Filling 

Follow recipe for Cream Filling, but use one-half cup strong coffee 
in place of one-half cup of milk. Or add one teaspoon of instantaneous 
coffee to the recipe. 

Prune Filling 

To recipe for Boiled Icing add two-thirds of a cup of cooked prunes 
which have been stoned and cut in small pieces, add the chopped meats 
from six of the prune stones. Spread between layers of cake. 



86 ICINGS AND FILLINGS 



Cream Filling 

Ingredients — l^/^ cups milk, % teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg 
slightly beaten, i^ cup cornstarch, 1 teaspoon flavoring. 

Preparation — Scald milk, mix sugar, cornstarch, salt, and egg; add 
to milk, and cook over hot w^ater, stirring constantly until mixture 
thickens; cook fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. Cool and flavor 
before spreading. 

Date and Fig Filling 

Ingredients — 1 cup figs, V2 cup sugar, 1 cup dates, V2 cup boiling 
water, juice Vz lemon. 

Preparation — Wash, dry, and chop figs; wash, dry, stone, and chop 
dates; mix fruit with sugar, water, and lemon juice, and cook over 
hot water until thick enough to spread. 

Fudge Filling 

Ingredients — 1% cups brown sugar, Vs cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 
few grains salt, 1 square chocolate, Vz cup nut meats chopped. 

Preparation — Put sugar, butter, chocolate, milk, and salt in a sauce- 
pan; heat slowly to boiling point, and boil to 240° F., or until a soft 
ball can be formed when tested in cold water; remove from fire, add 
nuts, and beat until smooth and creamy. 

Marshm allow Filling 

Ingredients — 1 cup sugar, 1/2 pound marshmallows, % cup boiling 
water, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water to 240° F., or until a soft ball 
can be formed when tested in cold water; soften marshmallows over 
hot water, add sirup, and when partly cooled add vanilla and beat until 
stiff enough to spread. Chopped nuts, dates, figs, raisins, or candied 
fruits may be added. 

Mocha Filling 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons hot black coffee, 2 tablespoons cocoa, 1 
tablespoon butter, V2 teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup confectioners' sugar. 

Preparation — Mix coffee, butter, cocoa, and vanilla, and add sugar 
enough for mixture to spread without running. 

Orange Filling 

Ingredients — V2 cup sugar, % cup orange juice, 2 tablespoons flour, 
1 beaten egg, grated rind V2 orange, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Preparation — Mix sugar, flour, and rind in the top of double boiler, 
add orange juice, egg, and butter, and cook over hot water for twelve 
minutes, stirring often. 



HOT DESSERTS 87 



HOT DESSERTS 

Apple Roulettes 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit; roll dough very thin, brush 
with melted butter, and spread with one cup of chopped apple, mixed 
with one-fourth cup of sugar, and one teaspoon of cinnamon; roll 
firmly like a jelly roll, cut in three-fourths-inch slices, place in buttered 
pan, and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. Serve with hot liquid 
sauce. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

Ingredients — 1% cups flour, 1 egg, 3 tablespoons baking powder, 
% cup milk, V2 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted shortening, 3 ta- 
blespoons sugar, 3 apples, 2 tablespoons sugar, i/4 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Preparation — Sift together flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar; 
add egg well beaten, milk, and shortening; beat well, and spread in 
a greased pan, having mixture about an inch deep; core, pare, and 
quarter apples, cut in thick slices, and arrange in rows on top of cake; 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, and bake in hot oven half an hour, 
and serve with apples on top. Serve v(?ith Soft Sauce. 

Steamed Apple Pudding 

Ingredients — 6 apples, 3 teaspoons baking powder, V2 cup sugar, V2 
teaspoon shortening, 1 cup cream or milk, and 1^/^ cup flour. 

Preparation — Pare, core, and slice apples; place in a greased pud- 
ding dish, and sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg mixed. Sift flour, bak- 
ing powder, and salt; rub in shortening with finger tips, and mix vdth 
milk; spread over apples, and steam for one hour. Turn out of dish, 
and serve with apples on top. Serve with Soft Sauce. 

Banana Toast 

Mash and sweeten bananas, heap on rounds of buttered toast, and 
heat in oven. Serve hot with cream or rich milk. Garnish with split 
cherries, nuts, or bits of jelly. 

Blackberry Pudding 

Add one cup of blackberries to recipe for Cottage Pudding and serve 
with Blackberry Sauce. 

Blueberry Pudding 
To recipe for Cottage Pudding add one cup of blueberries. 

Brown Betty 

Ingredients— 2 cups soft bread crumbs, i/4 teaspoon clove, 4 table- 
spoons butter, ^/4 teaspoon nutmeg, 4 apples, 2 tablespoons molasses, 
Vs cup brown sugar, 2 tablespoons hot water, V2 teaspoon cinnamon, 
M teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Mix crumbs with melted butter; pare, core, and slice 
apples; mix sugar and spices; arrange crumbs and apple in layers in 
a greased baking dish, sprinkle each layer with sugar; mix molasses, 
water, and salt, and pour over all. Bake slowly for an hour and a 
half. 



HOT DESSERTS 



Baked Cranberry Pudding 

Ingredients — 2 cups soft bread crumbs, 1 cup sugar, H cup butter, 
% cup sultana raisins, 1 cup chopped cranberries, ^A cup boiling water. 

Preparation — Mix crumbs with melted butter; add cranberries, 
sugar, and raisins, and put into a greased baking dish; add water, and 
bake in a slow oven one hour. Serve with Soft Sauce. 

Baked Indian Pudding 

Ingredients — 2 cups boiling water, 3 eups hot milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1/4 cup molasses, 5 tablespoons fine corn meal, Vz teaspoon ginger. 

Preparation — Add salt to boiling water, sift in corn meal very 
slowly, and boil ten minutes, stirring often; add milk, molasses, and 
ginger, pour into a greased earthen dish, and bake slowly for three 
hours. Serve with rich milk, cream, or Ginger Sauce. 

Caramel Toast Pudding 

Ingredients — % cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 slices toast, ^A 
teaspoon salt, 2 cups hot milk, % teaspoon nutmeg, 1 egg. 

Preparation — Caramelize sugar; cut each slice of toast in quarters, 
dip in caramel, and arrange in baking dish; add milk to caramel re- 
maining in pan, and stir until dissolved; add butter, salt, nutmeg, and 
egg slightly beaten; pour over toast, and bake in slow oven about half 
an hour. Serve with cream, rich milk, or liquid sauce. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

Ingredients — V2 cup sugar, Va teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 1 cup flour, 1 beaten egg, W^ teaspoons baking powder, % cup 
milk, V2, teaspoon cinnamon, 1 square melted chocolate. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, put in pudding mold, cover closely, 
and steam one hour. Serve with cream or Soft Sauce. 

Cottage Pudding 

Ingredients — Va, cup shortening, % cup milk, V2 cup sugar, 2 cups 
flour, 1 egg^ 4 teaspoons baking powder, ^4 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Cream the butter; add the sugar and the well beaten 
egg, and beat v/ell; add the milk and then the flour, baking powder, 
and salt, which have been sifted together, beat again, and bake in hot 
oven in pudding dish about half an hour, or in individual tins about 
twenty minutes. Serve with hot liquid sauce. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

Ingredients — 1 egg well beaten, Vz teaspoon salt, 1 cup molasses, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, V2 cup water, % teaspoon clove, 2 tablespoons 
melted shortening, V^ teaspoon m.ace, % cup raisins, seeded and 
chopped, Wn cups flour, % cup currants, Vz teaspoon soda. 

Preparation — Mix egg, molasses, water, and shortening; add dry 
ingredients sifted together; add fruit; mix well, pour into greased 
one-pound baking powder boxes, and steam and hour and three-quar- 
ters. Serve with a tart sauce. One cup of dates, stoned and cut in 
pieces, may be used instead of raisins and currants. 



HOT DESSERTS 89 



Steamed Fig Pudding 

Ingredients — Vz cup shortening, 5 teaspoons baking powder, % cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 egg well beaten, Vz teaspoon nutmeg, 
1 cup milk, V2 teaspoon salt, V2 cup molasses, 1 pound figs chopped, 
2% cups flour, V4, cup currants, V2 cup flour. 

Preparation — Mix shortening and sugar, and beat until creamy; 
add egg, milk, and molasses, add two and a half cups of flour sifted 
with baking powder, spices, and salt; beat well; add figs and currants 
mixed with one-half cup of flour. Pour into a greased mold, and steam 
three hours, or pour into greased one-pound baking powder boxes, and 
steam an hour and three-quarters. Serve with Cranberry Sauce or 
Currant Jelly Sauce. This pudding keeps well and can be reheated 
in the top of the double boiler. 

Mock Indian Pudding 

Ingredients — 2 slices bread, Vs cup sugar, 2 cups milk, V4 teaspoon 
cinnamon, Vz cup molasses, Vi teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Butter two slices bread cut three-quarters of an inch 
thick, put into buttered baking dish, and pour over the bread the rest 
of the ingredients mixed together. Bake one and a half hours in a 
slow oven. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding 

Ingredients — Vs cup pearl tapioca, Vz cup molasses, 2 cups boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon butter, 1^/^ teaspoons salt, ''■A teaspoon cinnamon, 
1/4 cup corn meal, 3 cups hot milk. 

Preparation — Soak tapioca in cold water for one hour, and drain; 
add salt to boiling water, sift in corn meal, and boil ten minutes, stir- 
ring often; add tapioca and other ingredients, pour into a greased 
earthen dish, and bake slowly for two hours. 

Peach Dumplings 

Cover halves of preserved peaches with Shortcake Dough, rolled 
thin; bake in hot oven, and serve with hot peach sirup and hard sauce. 

Mulled Rice 

Ingredients — Vz cup rice, */4 teaspoon salt, 2 cups hot milk, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon butter, Vz teaspoon nutmeg, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 table- 
spoons grape juice. 

Preparation — Wash rice, and cook with milk, butter, sugar, and salt 
in double boiler until tender; beat egg, add nutmeg and grape juice, 
stir into rice, and cook five minutes. Serve with cream or rich milk. 

Baked Rice Pudding 

Ingredients — V2 cup rice, Vz teaspoon salt, 2 cups milk, Vz nutmeg 
grated, 2 cups boiling water, 1 cup raisins seeded and chopped, Vi cup 
sugar. 

Preparation — Wash rice, mix with other ingredients, pour into a 
greased baking dish, and bake slowly for three hours. Stir occasion- 
ally during the first hour of baking to prevent rice and fruit from 
settling. Serve with rich milk or cream. 



90 COLD DESSERTS 



Baked Rice Custard 

Ingredients — 1 cup cooked rice, pinch of salt, 2 eggs, 1% cups milk, 
% cup sugar, % teaspoon lemon extract. 

Preparation — Mix in order given and bake about twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold with cream or rich milk. 



COLD DESSERTS 

Banana Royal 

Ingredients — 4 bananas, 4 slices of French Toast or stale sponge 
cake, ^/4 cup currant jelly, % cup powdered sugar. 

Preparation — Force bananas and jelly through potato ricer or a 
sieve, add sugar, and heap on French toast or sponge cake. Or line 
individual glasses with lady fingers and fill with banana mixture. 

Banana Whip 

Ingredients — 4 bananas, 4 tablespoons powdered sugar, 4 tablespoons 
grape juice or jelly, whites of 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Peel and scrape bananas, force through a sieve; add 
grape juice, sugar and stiffly beaten whites of eggs; pile lightly in 
individual glass dishes, garnish with bits of jelly, and serve at once. 
All materials should be very cold. 

Banana and Grape Juice Jelly 

Ingredients — V2 box gelatine, V4. cup strained lemon juice, Vz cup 
grape juice, % cup sugar, 2^/^ cups boiling water, 2 large bananas. 

Preparation — Soak gelatine in grape juice five minutes; dissolve in 
boiling water, add lemon juice and sugar. When jelly begins to stiffen, 
beat with egg beater, and add the bananas pressed through a sieve. 

Blackberry Mold 

Ingredients — 1 quart blackberries, % teaspoon salt, Vb cup sugar, 
2 cups water, % cup farina. 

Preparation — Heat berries, sugar, salt, and water, and when boiling 
add farina slowly. Cook over hot water half an hour, turn into a 
mold, and serve cold with cream. Blueberries, either fresh or canned, 
may be used in place of blackberries. 

Soft Custard 

Ingredients — 2 cups milk, few grains salt, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon cornstarch, V^ cup sugar, Vz teaspoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Scald the milk; mix sugar, salt, and cornstarch, add 
to beaten egg yolks, and stir into the hot milk; cook over hot water 
ten minutes, stirring constantly until thickened; beat with egg beater; 
strain, cool, and add vanilla. To vary the flavor, the sugar may be 
caramelized, or other extracts may be used. Serve in glasses vdth a 
meringue made of the whites of eggs beaten stiff and sweetened with 
two tablespoons of sugar. Garnish with dots of red jelly. 



COLD DESSERTS 91 



Charlotte Russe Filling 

Ingredients — 1*/^ cups thin cream, V^ cup hot milk, 1% teaspoons 
gelatine, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons cold milk, ^i 
teaspoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Whip the cream with a whip chum; skim off the froth 
as it rises and place in a fine sieve to drain; soak gelatine in cold milk, 
dissolve in hot milk, add sugar and flavoring. Stir occasionally until 
mixture begins to stiffen; then fold in the whip from the cream. 

Chocolate Blancmange 

Ingredients — 2 cups hot milk, i/4 teaspoon cinnamon, 4 tablespoons 
cornstarch, M cup sugar, i/4 teaspoon salt, 1^ squares chocolate 
melted, whites 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Scald milk; mix cornstarch, salt, cinnamon, and sugar; 
add slowly to milk, and cook over hot water until thickened, stirring 
constantly; add chocolate and cook for fifteen minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally; fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, and turn into indi- 
vidual molds to chill. 

Cocoanut and Orange Jelly 

Ingredients — V2 box gelatine, Vi cup orange marmalade, V2 cup 
cold water, % cup sugar, 1 cup hot milk, 1 can cocoanut, cold milk. 

Preparation — Soak gelatine in cold water for five minutes; dissolve 
in hot milk; add marmalade and sugar; drain one can of cocoanut, and 
add to cocoanut milk enough cold milk to make one and a half cups; 
mix with jelly, add cocoanut, and pour into a mold to chill. 

Coffee Caramel Custards 

Ingredients — Vz cup sugar, 1 cup strong coffee, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 
few grains salt. 

Preparation — Put sugar in smooth saucepan, and stir over fire until 
a light colored caramel is formed. (Avoid burning.) Heat milk and 
coffee, add to caramel, and keep over hot water until caramel is dis- 
solved; add eggs slightly beaten and salt; strain into cups, and bake 
in slow oven until firm. 

Cofifee Junket 

Ingredients — 2 cups lukewann milk, few grains salt, ^4 cup sugar, 
V2 junket tablet, 1 teaspoon instantaneous coffee, 1 teaspoon cold 
water. 

Preparation — Mix milk, sugar, coffee, and salt; stir until sugar is 
dissolved; dissolve junket tablet in cold water, add to milk, and pour 
into glasses. If milk is overheated junket will not be firm. 

Cofifee and Rice Jelly 

Ingredients — Vz box gelatine, 1 cup milk, % cup cold coffee, % cup 
sugar, 2 cups hot strong coffee, 1 cup cooked rice. 

Preparation — Soak gelatine in cold coffee five minutes; add hot 
coffee and stir until dissolved; add milk and sugar; chill, and, when 
beginning to stiffen, beat with egg beater, add rice, and turn into a 
mold. 



92 COLD DESSERTS 



Cranberry Whip 

Follow recipe for Prune Whip, using one cup of strained cranberry 
sauce instead of prunes. 

Fruit Cream 

Ingredients — 2 bananas, 1 tablespoon granulated gelatine, 1 orange, 
Vz lemon, % cup boiling water, Vs cup powdered sugar, 1 cup cream 
whipped. 

Preparation — Press bananas through a sieve; add juice and pulp 
of orange, juice of lemon, sugar, and gelatine which has been dis- 
solved in hot water. Stir over ice water until mixture begins to stiffen, 
then fold in the cream. Put in mold and chill. 

Sp iced Fruit Jelly 

Ingredients — 6 apples, 1 tablespoon gelatine, V2 cup cranberries, 
% cup cold water, % cup boiling water, V2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup 
sugar, ^/4 teaspoon clove. 

Preparation — Core and slice apples, and cook with cranberries and 
boiling water fifteen minutes; press through a sieve, add sugar, gela- 
tine dissolved in cold water and spice. Stir until sugar is dissolved, 
pour into a mold, and put in a cool place until firm. 

Fruit Whip (Uncooked) 

Ingredients — 4 tart apples grated, 8 dates stoned and chopped, 4 figs 
chopped, 2 tablespoons fruit jelly, whites of 2 eggs. 

Preparation — Mix fruit; mash jelly with a fork; add to fruit, and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Serve in glasses, and garnish 
with bits of jelly. 

Pineapple Pudding 

Follow recipe for Chocolate Blancmange, omitting chocolate and 
cinnamon, and adding one-half can of grated pineapple. 

Prune Whip 

Press cooked and stoned prunes through a sieve; to one cup of prune 
pulp add two tablespoons of sugar; beat the v/hites of two eggs very 
stiff; add prune mixture gradually, and beat well with a strong egg 
beater when light turn into a small greased baking dish or into four 
individual dishes, and bake in a slow oven about twenty minutes, or 
until firm. Serve plain or with a custard sauce made from the yolks 
of the eggs. 

Jellied Prunes and Cranberries 

Ingredients — 1 cup prunes, 1 cup sugar, boiling water, Vz box gela- 
tine, 1 cup cranberries chopped, Vz cup cold water. 

Preparation — Wash prunes, and soak over night in water to cover; 
cook until soft in same water; drain, measure juice, and add enough 
boiling water to make three cups; put cranberries in a colander and 
rinse off the seeds with mnning water; drain, and add to water, add 
sugar, and cook ten minutes; add the gelatine soaked in cold water; 
stone the prunes, cut in quarters, and add to cranberries; turn into a 
mold^ and chill. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 93 



Prune and Wheat Mold 

Ingredients — 1 cup prunes, V4, teaspoon salt, boiling water, V2 cup 
Cream of Wheat. 

Preparation — Wash prunes, soak over night; cook in same water 
until tender, and remove the stones; measure prunes and juice, and 
add boiling water to make one quart; add salt; slowly sift in wheat, 
and cook over hot water for half an hour, stirring often at first; turn 
into a mold to cool. 

Rice Mold 

Ingredients — 1 cup rice, juice of 1 orange, 2 quarts boiling water, 
grated rind of V2 orange, 1 tablespoon salt, % cup powdered sugar, 
2 tablespoons grape juice. 

Preparation — Cook rice in boiling salted water until tender; drain; 
mix with orange, sugar, and grape juice; press into a mold, and chill; 
turn out of mold, and serve with cream. 

Sea Moss Blancmange 

Ingredients — % cup sea moss, V^ cup sugar, 1 quart milk, V4, tea- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Soak moss in lukewarm water for ten minutes; lift 
carefully from the water so as not to disturb any sand which have 
settled; rinse moss, drain well, add to hot milk, and cook in double 
boiler for half an hour. Strain through a fine sieve, add sugar, salt, 
and vanilla, and turn into a mold until firm. Serve with crushed 
berries, sliced bananas, or stewed fruit. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

To Freeze Ices 

Use one measure of freezing salt to three measures of finely cracked 
ice for ice cream, sherbet, and all mixtures which are to be churned. 
Freeze slowly, remove. To freeze mousse, bombe, and all unchumed 
mixtures, pack in equal parts of salt and ice, and let stand three hours. 

Frozen Custard 

Ingredients — 1 quart milk, 2 teaspoons cornstarch, 2 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon vamlla, 1 cup sugar, few grains salt. 

Preparation — scald milk; beat eggs slightly, add sugar mixed with 
cornstarch, and stir into milk; cook over hot water for twelve minutes, 
stirring constantly at first. Cool, add vanilla and salt, and freeze. 
Part cream may be used to advantage, or one can of evaporated milk 
with enough fresh milk added to make one quart. 

Cocoa Ice Cream 

Ingredients — 1 pint milk, few grains salt, 2 inches stick cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon cornstarch, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg beaten, Vz cup cocoa, 1 pint 
cream, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

egg, and cook with milk until slightly thickened; cool, remove cinna- 
mon, add cream and vanilla, and freeze. 



94 FROZEN DESSERTS 



Chocolate Ice Cream 

Follow recipe for Vanilla Ice Cream, adding two and a half squares 
of chocolate to the custard before cooking. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Ingredients — 1 can evaporated milk, 2 teaspoons instantaneous cof- 
fee, 1 cup boiling water, ^ cup sugar. 

Preparation — Add boiling water to milk, and cool; add sugar and 
flavoring, and freeze. Serve in glasses and garnish with whipped 
cream. 

Mint Ice Cream 

Preparation — Put half of cream in double boiler with candy, and 
heat until candy is dissolved. Cool, add the remainder of cream 
whipped, and the white of egg beaten stiff; freeze; and serve in glasses 
garnished with small green mint candies. 

Orange Velvet Cream 

Ingredients — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup orange juice, 1 cup water, juice of 

1 lemon, whites of 2 eggs, 1 pint cream whipped. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water until it threads; cool slightly 
and add gradually to the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, beating steadily 
for three minutes; add fruit juice, and when cool fold in cream. Freeze, 
and serve in glasses garnished with candied orange peel and a few 
mint leaves. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Ingredients — 1 quart thin cream, few grains salt, % cup sugar, 1 
tablespoon flavoring. 

Preparation — Mix and freeze. 

Prune Ice Cream 

Ingredients — 1% cups hot milk, V2 cup brown sugar, 2 eggs slightly 
beaten, 1 cup cream, 2 cups cooked prunes. 

Preparation — Cook milk, eggs, and sugar over hot water until 
thickened, stirring constantly; when cool add cream, prunes stoned 
and pressed through a sieve, and freeze. Undiluted, unsweetened, 
evaporated milk may be used in place of cream. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Ingredients — 1 quart strawberries, l^/^ cups sugar, 1 quart thin 
cream. 

Preparation — Mash strawberries, add sugar, let stand an hour, and 
press through a sieve; add cream, and freeze. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Ingredients — 1 pint milk, few grains salt, 1 cup sugar, 1 pint cream, 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Scald milk, add sugar, salt, and eggs slightly beaten; 
cook over hot water until mixture coats spoon; cool; add cream and 
vanilla, and freeze. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 95 



Canton Ginger Sherbet 

Ingredients — % cup Canton ginger, juice of 1 orange, 1 cup sugar, 
juice of 1 orange, 1 cup sugar, juice of Vz lemon, 3^/^ cups boiling 
water, white of 1 egg. 

Preparation — Put ginger through the fool chopper, using finest cut- 
ter, add sugar and water, and boil fifteen minutes; add fruit juice; 
cool, and freeze. When nearly frozen, add the stiffly beaten white of 
egg. 

Cider Frappe 

Ingredients — 1 quart sweet cider, juice of 3 oranges, 1 cup sugar, 
juice of 1 lemon. 

Preparation — Mix cider, sugar, and strained fruit juice; freeze to a 
mush, and seir^e in frappe glasses with the roast. 

Cranberry and Raisin Sherbet 

Ingredients — 3 cups cranberries, 1^/^ cups sugar, 1 cup seeded rai- 
sins, white of 1 egg, IVz cups water. 

Preparation — Cook cranberries, raisins, and water ten minutes; 
press through a sieve, add sugar, and freeze; when nearly frozen add 
the stiffly beaten white of egg, and continue freezing until stiff and 
smooth. 

Fruit Sherbet 

Ingredients — 1 cup sugar, juice of 1 orange, 1 cup water, juice of 1 
lemon, 1 teaspoon gelatine, % cup grated pineapple, 2 tablespoons 
cold water, 1 banana peeled ^nd mashed. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water five minutes, add gelatine soaked 
in cold water, and stir until dissolved; add fruit; cool, and freeze. 

Grape Bombe 

Line a mold with Grape Sherbet, fill with Charlotte Russe Filling 
to within one inch of top, cover with sherbet, and pack in salt and ice 
for three hours. 

Grape Sherbet 

Ingredients — 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons water, 1 cup water, 1 cup 
grape juice, 1 teaspoon gelatine, juice of 1 lemon. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water five minutes; soak gelatine in 
cold water five minutes and add to sirup; add fruit juice, cool, and 
freeze. Serve in glasses with or without whipped cream garnish. 

Jelly Sherbet 

Ingredients — 1 teaspoon gelatine, 2 glasses jelly, Vz cup cold water, 
IVz cups boiling water, white of 1 egg. 

Preparation — Put gelatine and cold water in the top of double boiler; 
let stand five minutes; add jelly and boiling water, and stir until jelly 
is dissolved; when cool, freeze; when nearly frozen add the stiffly 
beaten white of egg. This is economical if home made jelly can be 
used. 



96 SAUCES FOR DESSERTS 

Pineapple Sherbet 

Ingredients — % cup sugar, V2 can grated pineapple, 2 cups boiling 
water, juice of 1 lemon, white of 1 egg. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water for fifteen minutes, add pine- 
apple, and lemon juice; when cool, freeze; when nearly frozen add the 
stiffly beaten white of egg, and finish freezing. 

Somerset Sherbet 

Ingredients — 1 banana, 1 orange, V2 can apricots, or 1^/^ cups stewed 
dried apricots, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon gelatine, % cup cold water, 
1 lemon, 1 cup boiling water. 

Preparation — Press banana and apricots, with their juice, through 
a sieve; add juice of lemon and orange, and sugar; soak gelatine in 
cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add to fruit, cool, and freeze. 

Strawberry Sherbet 

Ingredients — 2 cups water, 1 box strawberries, 1 cup sugar, white of 
1 egg. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water five minutes; mash berries, add 
to sirup, cool, and freeze; when nearly frozen add the stiffly beaten 
white of egg. If preferred, strain before freezing. 

Frozen Watermelon 

Scoop out the inside of a watermelon with a large spoon; put in the 
freezer without the dasher, sprinkle with powdered sugar and lemon 
juice, and pack in equal parts of salt and ice for three hours. 



SAUCES FOR DESSERTS 

Caramel Sauce 

Melt one cup of sugar in a smooth, clean saucepan, add three-fourths 
cup of boiling vv'^ater, and simmer fifteen minutes. Take care that 
sugar does not burn. Strong coiTee may be used instead of water, 
and, if desired, one-half cup of chopped nut meats may be added. 

Chocolate Sauce (Hot) 

Ingredients — % cup sugar, 1 square chocolate, % cup boiling water, 
2 teaspoons boiling water, Vs teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon butter, % tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Cook sugar, one-third cup water, salt, and chocolate 
until sirup threads; remove from fire, add two teaspoons water, butter, 
and vanilla. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients — 1/4 cup butter, 2 tablespoons boiling water, 1 cup pow- 
dered sugar; V2 cup strained cranberry sauce. 

Preparation — Cream butter, add sugar and water gradually and 
alternately; beat well, and add cranberry sauce. The stiffly beaten 
white of one egg may be added. Serve with cottage or steamed 
puddings. 



SAUCES FOR DESSERTS 97 

Chocolate Marshmallow Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 square chocolate, ^,4 cup sugar, % tablespoon butter, 

1 cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon flour, 8 marshmallows cut in pieces, 
few grains salt, V2 teaspoon vanilla. 

Pi-eparation — Melt chocolate; add butter, flour, salt, sugar, and mix 
well; add water and boil two minutes; add marshmallows and beat 
well; add vanilla and serve hot. One tablespoon of shredded almonds 
may be added; or the marshmallows may be omitted and two table- 
spoons each of chopped nuts and raisins added. 

Cinnamon Sauce 

Use recipe for Lemon Sauce; but omit the lemon flavoring, and add 
one teaspoon cinnamon and one tablespoon of molasses. 

CoflFee Sauce (Evaporated Milk) 

Ingredients — 1 cup evaporated milk, 1 teaspoon soluble coffee, or 2 
tablespoons clear black coffee, ^/i cup sugar. 

Place milk on ice for a few hours; beat with a rotary egg beater 
until stiff, add sugar and flavoring. 

Custard Sauce 

Make the same as Soft Custard, 

Currant Jelly Sauce (Pudding) 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 2 tablespoons currant jelly, 
^ cup sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 cup boiling water, juice of V2 lemon. 

Preparation — Mix cornstarch and sugar in a saucepan, add water 
gradually, when thickened add jelly, simmer ten minutes; add butter 
and lemon juice just before serving. 

Date Sauce 

To Lemon Sauce add eight dates, which have been washed, stoned, 
and cut in small pieces. Serve with Cottage Pudding. 

Fruit Sauce 

Heat one cup of sirup of preserved or canned fruit, thicken with 
one teaspoon of cornstarch moistened with one tablespoon of cold 
water, and cook ten minutes; add a few grains of salt, a teaspoon 
of butter, a few drops of red coloring, and serve hot. 

Ginger Sauce 

Ingredients — Vz cup sugar, 2 tablespoons water, % cup molasses, 

2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon butter, V2 tablespoon ginger. 
Preparation — Mix in order given, boil for five minutes, and serve 

hot vnth Indian Pudding or Steamed Fruit Pudding. 

Hard Sauce 

Ingredients — */4 cup butter, 1 teaspoon milk, 1 cup powdered sugar, 
1 teaspoon vanilla, or i/4 teaspoon nutmeg. 

Preparation — Cream butter, add sugar and milk gradually, and beat 
until very light; add flavoring and chill before serving. 



98 PASTRIES 



Lemon Sauce 

Ingredients — % cup sugar, 1% cups hot water, 2 teaspoons corn- 
starch, 1 teaspoon butter, % teaspoon salt, juice and rind of Vz lemon, 
or % teaspoon lemon extract. 

Preparation — Mix sugar, cornstarch, and salt; add hot water, stir 
constantly until boiling point is reached, and simmer ten minutes; add 
butter and flavoring. One teaspoon of vanilla or one-half nutmeg 
grated may be used instead of lemon. 

Marshmallow Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup marshmallows, Vz cup boiling 
water, % teaspoon vanilla. 

Preparation — Boil sugar and water five minutes, add marshmallows, 
beat until they are melted, and add vanilla. Beat well before serv- 
ing. Serve hot or cold. 

Mocha Sauce 

Ingredients — ^ cup butter or Crisco, 1 teaspoon powdered soluble 
coffee, 1 cup powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons milk, 1 tablespoon cocoa. 

Preparation — Cream shortening, add sugar and milk gradually, and 
beat until light; add coffee and cocoa, and blend well. 

Orange Marmalade Sauce 

Ingredients — Vz cup orange marmalade, Vz tablespoon butter, Vz 
cup boiling water. 

Preparation — Mix and serve hot with Cottage Pudding, steamed 
puddings, or griddle cakes. 

Soft Sauce 

To Hard Sauce add two tablespoons of hot milk, a few drops at a 
time; beat well and do not chill. 

Strawberry Sauce 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons boiling v/ater, % 
cup powdered raspberries may be used instead of strawberries. 

Preparation — Cream butter, add half of sugar gradually; add 
remaining half of sugar alternately with the water; beat well, and 
add strawberries, blackberries or sugar, 1 cup cirushed strawberries. 



PASTRIES 

Plain Paste 



Ingredients — Wz cups of flour, i/4 cup shortening, % teaspoon salt, 
Vi. cup ice water, i/4 teaspoon baking powder, % cup butter. 

Preparation — Sift flour, salt, and baking powder; laib in shorten- 
ing with finger tips until mixture is like fine meal; add water gradu- 
ally until a soft but not sticky dough is formed, mixing with a knife; 
when dough is mixed, the side of the bowl should be clean, neither 
sticky nor dry with flour. Slightly more or less water may be needed. 
Roll paste on a lightly floured board into an even rectangular shape; 



PASTRIES 99 



divide butter into three parts; cover two-thirds of the paste, with dots 
of butter, using one part; fold first the unbuttered third, then the 
remaining third, so that there will be three layers of paste with butter 
between; roll out again, dot with butter as before, and fold; repeat 
for third time. Put paste on ice until thoroughly chilled. Any good 
shortening may be used in place of butter, but the butter flavor will 
be lacking. This is enough for one pie with two crusts; double the 
amount of paste can be made with the same amount of labor. It 
keeps well if wrapped in cheesecloth and put in a cool place. 

Rich Paste 

Ingredients — 3 cups flour, IV^ cups shortening, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
1 tablespoon lemon juice, Vz teaspoon salt, ice water. 

Preparation — Sift flour, sugar and salt; add shortening, and rub in 
with finger tips or chop with a knife in each hand until mixture is 
like fine meal; add lemon juice and enough water to form a stiff 
paste (about two-thirds of a cup); roll out into a thin sheet and fold 
in four layers; roll out and fold three times. Chill before using. 
This rule makes two pies. It is less expensive than puff paste, and 
yet is a very good substitute for it. 

Patty Shells 

Roll paste one-eighth of an inch thick, cover inverted tin patty pans 
or individual pie dishes, trim paste evenly, and press down the edge 
firmly; prick with a fork, place on a baking sheet, and bake in a hot 
oven about twelve minutes. Remove pans, and fill with any cooked 
fruit mixture, berries, or creamed meats or vegetables. 

Pie Shell 

Roll paste one-quarter inch thick, cover an inverted pie plate, trim, 
and press the edges firmly; prick with a fork, place on a baking sheet, 
and bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. Fill with cooked pie 
mixtures and cover with a meringue, or garnish with bits of pastry 
which have been cut in fancy shapes and baked. 

Tart Shells 

Roll Rich Paste one-third of an. inch thick, cut into small rounds, 
moisten the edges of half of them with cold water, cut out the cen- 
ters of the other half with a small cutter, place upon whole rounds, 
and press firmly together; chill, and bake in a hot oven about twenty 
minutes. Fill with jelly, jam, or fruit paste. When shells are to be 
filled with creamed meats, etc., cut with a larger cutter. 

Mock Mince Meat (Uncooked) 

Ingredients — l^/^ cups chopped apples, ^d cup beef fat melted, ^/i 
cup raisins seeded and chopped, % teaspoon salt, V2 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1/4 cup cranberries chopped, V2 teaspoon mace, Vi teaspoon clove, 
% cup currants, % cup brown sugar, 1 tablespoon citron shredded, 
1/4 cup vinegar, ^ cup coffee. 

Preparation — Mix in order given and let stand a few hours before 
using. (Fills one large pie.) 



100 PASTRIES 



Mince Meat 

Ingredients — 4 cups cooked beef chopped, 1 pound citron shredded, 
2 cups chopped suet, 2 tablespoons salt, 8 cups chopped apples, 1 
tablespoon cinnamon, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 tablespoon mace, 2 cups 
molasses, 1 teaspoon clove, 1 glass tart jelly, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1^ 
pounds seeded raisins, V2 teaspoon pepper, 1 pound washed currants, 
1 quart boiled cider. 

Preparation — Mix, and cook slowly about two hours, stirring fre- 
quently. One cup of chopped cranberries may be substituted for the 
jelly. Store in jars or in a stone crock. If mince meat grows dry 
by standing, moisten with a little coffee. 

Green Tomato Mince Meat 

Ingredients — 1% cups green tomatoes chopped, ^A cup water, % 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1% cups apples chopped, V2 teaspoon mace, % 
cup raisins seeded and chopped, i/4 teaspoon clove, % teaspoon salt, 
1 cup brown sugar, V2 cup jelly, fruit sirup, or grape juice, i/4 cup 
beef fat melted, 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

Preparation — Mix and cook slowly for one hour. (Fills two pies.) 

Meringue for Tarts and Pies 

Ingredients — Whites of 2 eggs; ^4 cup granulated sugar. 

Preparation — Beat the whites of eggs very stiff, add sugar gradu- 
ally, spread over tarts or pies, mounding in the center; put in a slow 
oven, and bake about ten minutes for tarts and fifteen minutes for 
pies. If baked slowly, meringue will not settle. 

One-egg Meringue 

Ingredients — White of 1 egg, 1 teaspoon baking powder, % cup 
granulated sugar, i/4 teaspoon extract. 

Preparation — Beat the egg until stiff, add gradually sugar mixed 
with baking powder, flavor, spread on tarts or pies, and bake in a 
moderate oven ten minutes. 

Sliced Apple Pie 

Ingredients — SVz cups pared and sliced apples, % teaspoon salt, 
% teaspoon nutmeg or cinnamon, V2 cup sugar. 

Preparation — Line a plate with paste, fill with apples, mounding 
them in the center; mix sugar, salt, and seasoning, and cover apples; 
moisten edge of paste with water; roll out paste for top crust, cut 
one-half inch larger than plate, and cut a few small gashes in the 
center; cover pie, turn edge under the lower crust, and press firmly. 
Brush with milk, and bake about forty minutes. The oven should 
be hot for the first fifteen minutes, and then the heat should be 
reduced. 

Blueberry Pie 

Ingredients — 2% cups blackberries, 2% tablespoons flour, % cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Preparation — Line a pie plate with paste; fill with berries, add 
sugar and flour mixed, and dot butter over top. Cover, and bake the 
same as Apple Pie. 



PASTRIES 101 



Cherry Pie 

Follow recipe for Blueberry Pie, using stoned cherries in place of 
blueberries and adding one-fourth cup more sugar. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

Ingredients — 1*/^ cups cranberries chopped and rinsed, 2 tablespoons 
sifted crumbs, or flour, Vz cup raisins seeded and chopped, 1 cup sugar, 
Vz cup water. 

Preparation — Mix, and bake in two crusts, the same as Apple Pie. 

Cranberry Pie 

Ingredients — 2 cups cranberries, 2 tablespoons sifted crumbs, 1% 
cups sugar, ^/^ cup hot water. 

Preparation — Chop cranberries, rinse, and mix with sugar, crumbs, 
and water. Roll paste one-quarter inch thick, cover a perforated tin 
plate, trim the edge evenly and moisten edge with water; fill with 
cranberries, cover with half-inch strips of paste placed half an inch 
apart to form a lattice top; trim the edges neatly, moisten and finish 
with a half-inch strip of paste around the edge. Bake about forty 
minutes. The oven should be hot for the first fifteen minutes, and 
then the heat should be reduced. 

Open Cranberry Pie 

Ingredients — 1% cups cranberries, % cup water, 1 cup sugar; 2 
tablespoons sifted crumbs. 

Preparation — Mix berries, sugar and water and cook for ten min- 
utes, stirring frequently to break the berries; add crumbs, and when 
nearly cool pour into a baked pie shell. Garnish with bits of baked 
pastry. 

Custard Pie (Cake Crumbs) 

Ingredients — 2 cups hot milk, 1 egg slightly beaten, V2 cup dry cake 
crumbs, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, nutmeg. 

Preparation — Mix crumbs and milk, let stand for five minutes, and 
press through a sieve; add sugar, egg and salt; line a deep plate with 
paste rolled thin; build up a firm edge of crust, fill with custard and 
dust with nutmeg. Bake about forty minutes. The oven should be 
hot for the first ten minutes, and then the heat should be reduced. 

Gooseberry Pie 

To recipe for Gooseberry Patties, add two tablespoons of dried and 
sifted crumbs. Prepare and bake the same as Cranberry Pie. 

Lemon Pie 

Ingredients — 1 slice bread one inch thick, 1 cup sugar, yolks 2 eggs, 
1 cup boiling water, % teaspoon salt, rind and juice 1 lemon. 

Preparation — Remove crusts from bread; cover bread with boiling 
water, let stand a few minutes, and press through a sieve; add sugar, 
eggs yolks slightly beaten, salt, lemon rind, and lemon juice. Pre- 
pare paste, fill, and bake the same as Custard Pie. Make a Meringue 
of the whites of eggs. 



102 PASTRIES 



Marlborough Pie 

Ingredients — 6 apples, grated rind and juice 1 lemon, % cup sugar, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 macaroons rolled, i/4 teaspoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 2 eggs slightly beaten. 

Preparation — Pare and slice apples, add one-quarter cup of water; 
cook until soft, and rub through a sieve; add other ingredients in 
order given. Line a deep plate or patty tins with rich paste, fill, 
and bake about forty minutes. Cake crumbs may be substituted for 
macaroons. 

Mince Pie 

Line a perforated tin plate with paste rolled one-fourth inch thick; 
fill with mince meat, moisten edges with water, and cover with an 
upper crust with a few small gashes cut in it; turn the edge under 
lower crust about half an inch, press firmly, and trim edges of paste 
with a knife, slanting toward the center; brush with milk, and bake 
in a hot oven about half an hour. 

Orange Pie 

Ingredients — IVz cups hot milk, grated rind of Vz orange, V2 cup 
cake crumbs, juice of 1 orange, V2 cup sugar, 1 egg slightly beaten, 
% teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Mix milk and crumbs, let stand five minutes, and press 
through a fine sieve; add other ingredients. Prepare paste, fill, and 
bake the same as Custard Pie. 

Pineapple Pie 

Ingredients — 1 can grated pineapple, few grains salt, 1 cup sugar, 
1 egg, IVt. tablespoons flour, ^ tablespoon butter. 

Preparation — Mix sugar, flour and salt, add beaten egg, and mix 
with pineapple; pour into a deep pie plate lined with paste, add but- 
ter in small pieces, cover with strips of paste, and bake in a hot oven 
about forty minutes, reducing the heat during second half of baking. 

Prune Pie 

Ingredients — 2 cups cooked prunes, 1 tablespoon flour, 1/2 cup sugar, 
grated rind of ^ orange. 

Preparation — Stone prunes, cut in quarters, and put into a paste- 
lined plate; cover with sugar, flour, and rind mixed. Cover with 
upper cinst, brush with milk, and bake in a hot oven half an hour, 
reducing the heat during second half of baking. 

Pumpkin Pie 

Ingredients — 1% cups baked pumpkin, Vz teaspoon ginger, 1 egg 
well beaten, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % cup brown sugar, Vi teaspoon 
cornstarch, V^ teaspoon salt, ly^ cups milk. 

Preparation — Cut pumpkin in pieces and bake in a hot oven; mash 
and strain, and to one and a half cups add the other ingredients in 
order given. Prepare paste and bake the same as custard pie. 



PASTRIES 103 



Raisin Pie 

Ingredients — % cup raisins seeded and chopped, 1 cup brown sugar, 
1% cups hot water, % cup vinegar, 2 tablespoons butter, V2 cup sifted 
crumbs. 

Preparation — Mix, and cook for ten minutes; cool; and bake the 
same as Cranberry Pie. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Ingredients — 2 cups rhubarb, V4, cup sifted crumbs, 2 tablespoons 
sultana raisins, 1 cup sugar, grating of nutmeg, few grains salt. 

Preparation — Cut rhubarb in half-inch pieces, place in a strainer, 
and scald with boiling water; drain, put into a paste-lined plate, cover 
with raisins, crumbs, sugar, and nutmeg and salt mixed; cover with 
an upper crust, and bake the same as Apple Pie. 

Squash Pie 

Ingredients — 1% cups cooked squash, ^4 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup 
sugar, V2 teaspoon nutmeg, % teaspoon salt, 1 egg beaten, % cup 
sifted crumbs, l^^ cups milk. 

Preparation — Mix in order given. Prepare paste, fill, and bake the 
same as Custard Pie. 

Banbury Tarts 

Ingredients — 1 cup raisins, juice and rind of 1 lemon, % cup sugar, 
% cup sifted crumbs. 

Preparation — Seed and chop raisins, and mix with sugar, lemon, 
and crumbs. Roll paste one-eighth inch thick, and cut in three-inch 
rounds; put half a tablespoon of raisin mixture on half of each round, 
moisten edges with water, fold double, and press edges firmly together. 
Prick with a fork, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

Gooseberry Patties 

Remove tops and stems from one pint of gooseberries; wash, add 
one-half cup water, and cook about fifteen minutes, or until soft and 
well broken; add one cup of sugar, and cool; line patty pans with 
paste, fill with gooseberries, cover with narrow strips of paste to 
form a lattice. Bake in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. 

Prune Patties 

Line patty pans with paste; prepare filling as for Prune Pie; mix, 
and fill pans; cover with a lattice-work of narrow strips of paste, and 
finish with a narrow strip of paste around the outer edge. Bake in 
a hot oven about twenty-five minutes. 

Individual Raspberry Pie 

Roll paste one-eighth inch thick, cut into circles two and a half 
inches in diameter. Put a tablespoon of raspberry jam on half of 
them, and moisten the edges with water. With a small round cutter 
make three holes in each remaining circle, place on top of jam, press 
edges firmly together, and bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 
Bake the small cut-out pieces of paste, and serve with soup. 



104 - PASTRIES 



Prune and Apple Tart Filling 

Use recipe for Prune and Apple Shortcake, fill cooked paste shells, 
and garnish with bits of cooked paste. 

Rhubarb Meringue Patties 

Ingredients — 2 cups rhubarb, 1 egg yolk beaten, i/i cup water, 3 
tablespoons sifted crumbs, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Preparation — Cut rhubarb in half-inch pieces and cook with water 
ten minutes; add sugar, egg yolk, crumbs, and butter, and cook five 
minutes; when coolj fill Patty Shells, cover witl^ One-egg Meringue, 
and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. 

Squash Patties (Without Eggs) 

Ingredients — 2 cups cooked and sifted squash, % teaspoon salt, % 
cup sugar, 1 tablespoon dried and sifted crumbs, V2 teaspoon lemon 
extract. 

Preparation — Mix in order given. Line patty pans with paste, fill 
with squash, and bake in a hot oven about twenty-five minutes. 

Cheese Straws 

Ingredients — V2 cup flour, Vs teaspoon mustard, 1 tablespoon 
shortening, M teaspoon paprika, M cup grated cheese, Vi teaspoon 
baking powder, % teaspoon salt, ice water. 

Preparation — Rub shortening into flour with finger tips; add cheese, 
seasonings, and baking powder, and mix to a stiff dough with ice 
water. Roll out, fold in four layers, roll out again and fold as before; 
put on ice to chill; roll out one-third inch thick, and cut into four-inch 
straws. Bake in a hot oven about twelve minutes. 

Cheese Straws (Left-over Paste) 

Roll trimmings of pastry into a thin sheet, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and paprika; fold in four layers; repeat; chill, cut into straws, 
and bake in a hot oven about twelve minutes. 

Cheese Wafers 

Prepare paste as for Cheese Straws, roll out very thin, cut with a 
two-inch cutter, and bake in a hot oven about six minutes. 

Cinnamon Hearts 

Roll rich paste very thin in an even rectangular shape: sprinkle 
with powdered sugar mixed with a little cinnamon. The paste should 
be about 12 inches long. Fold each end toward the center 2 inches; 
fold each end again toward the center; fold double, and chill. Cut 
in one-third inch slices, place flat side down on a baking sheet two 
inches apart, and bake in a hot oven about eight minutes. 



FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 105 

FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 

To Cook Dried Fruit 

Wash thoroughly in two or three cold waters; put in granite kettle, 
cover with water, and soak 24 hours; cook very slowly two or three 
hours until tender; add sugar, and simmer half an hour. 

Baked Apples with Dates 

Wipe and core apples, and place in baking dish (not tin) ; in each 
cavity put a stoned date, a tablespoon of sugar, and two tablespoons 
of boiling water; bake in a moderate oven about half an hour, basting 
often. Apple jelly may be used in place of dates, or sugar may be 
mixed with a little cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Grape and Apple Jelly 

Ingredients — ^ peck grapes, 3 tart apples, sugar. 

Preparation — Pick over, stew, and mash grapes, put in kettle with 
apples, which have been coarsely chopped, but not pared or cored; 
heat to boiling point, mash and boil thirty minutes; strain through a 
jelly bag; measure juice, return to kettle and boil five minutes; add 
an equal amount of heated sugar, and boil three minutes. Skim well 
and pour into glasses. 

Spiced Apple Jelly 

Wash apples, cut in quarters, cover with equal parts of water and 
vinegar, and cook half an hour; drain; and to each quart of juice add 
one-third cup of mixed spices (tied in a bag), and boil twenty minutes. 
Remove spices. Add heated sugar, allowing one quart for each quart 
of juice. Boil ten minutes, and pour into glasses. When cold and 
firm cover with melted paraffin. 

Grape Juice and Apple Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 cup grape juice, 4 apples, Vz cup sugar, 4 slices 
sponge cake or toast. 

Preparation — Boil grape juice and sugar for five minutes; pare, 
core, and slice apples, and cook in grape juice until tender; cool, and 
serve on toast or cake. Two cups of grapes cooked with one-half cup 
of water and pressed through a sieve may be used in place of juice. 

Dark Red Apple Sauce 

Ingredients — 8 tart apples, Vz teaspoon nutmeg, 1 cup sugar, % cup 
hot water. 

Preparation — Pare and core apples, and cut into eighths; put into 
an earthen dish; add sugar, nutmeg and hot water; cover closely, and 
bake in a slow oven three hours. 

Baked Bananas 

Peel, scrape, and slice six bananas; put into a greased baking dish 
in layers, and sprinkle each layer with brown sugar; dot a tablespoon 
of butter over the top, and sprinkle with the juice of half a lemon. 
Bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 



106 FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 

Bananas with Figs and Nuts 

Ingredients — 4 bananas, 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 4 figs, ^/i 
cup chopped nut meats. 

Preparation — Peel, scrape, and slice bananas; wash, dry, and chop 
figs; spread over bananas; sprinkle with sugar and nut meats, and 
serve with cream. Grape nuts may be used in place of nut meats. 

Mock Bar-Ie-duc Currants 

Ingredients — Vt. cup large, hard cranberries, 1 cup sugar, Vz cup 
boiling water. 

Preparation — Cut cranberries in quarters, place in colander, and 
wash under running water to remove the seeds; heat sugar and water 
slowly to the boiling point, and boil seven minutes; add cranberries, 
and boil seven minutes. Seal in small glasses. 

Red Currant Conserve 

Ingredients — 2 pounds red currants, 1 cup raisins, 2 oranges, \^k 
pounds sugar. 

Preparation — Wash currants; grate rind of oranges and remove 
pulp; seed raisins and cut in halves; put in preserving kettle with 
sugar, heat gradually to boiling point, and simmer until as thick as 
marmalade. 

Cranberry Conserve. 

Ingredients — 1 quart cranberries, 1 cup raisins seeded and chopped, 

1 cup water, 2^/1 cups sugar, grated rind 1 orange, Vz cup nut meats 
chopped, pulp and juice of 2 oranges. 

Preparation — Wash cranberries and chop rather coarsely; put in 
colander and rinse with running water to remove seeds; add water, 
oranges, and raisins; cook fifteen minutes; add sugar and boil two 
minutes; add nut meats and pour into glasses. 

Spiced Cranberries 

Ingredients — 1 quart cranberries, ^4 cup wate^, 2 cups brown sugar, 

2 teaspoons cinnamon, % cup vinegar, % teaspoon clove, Vj^ teaspoon 
allspice. 

Preparation — Mix in order given, heat slowly to the boiling point, 
and simmer half an hour. Serve with cold meats. 

Preserved Cranberries 

Ingredients — % cup water, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cranberries. 

Preparation — Heat water and sugar to the boiling point, and cook 
five minutes; add berries, and simmer for fifteen minutes, skimming 
when necessary. The berries should be unbroken. (Useful for gar- 
nishing.) 

Cranberry Sauce 

Ingredients — 1 pint cranberries, % cup water, 1 cup sugar. 

Preparation — Pick over and wash berries, add the water, and cook 
until very soft. Mash with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, and cook 
until sugar is dissolved. For thick cranberry jelly, press through a 
siev.e and pour into glasses. 



FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 107 

Fig Paste (Laxative) 

Ingredients — 1 pound prunes, Vz pound figs, 1 ounce senna leaves, 
cold water. 

Preparation — Soak prunes over night in cold water to cover, add 
the senna leaves tied in cheesecloth, and cook slowly until prunes are 
tender. Stone the prunes, and chop fine; add figs chopped fine, put 
in top of double boiler, remove senna, add prune juice, and cook until 
thick. 

Candied Grape Fruit Peel 

Cut grape fruit peel into thin strips, and soak twenty-four hours 
in salted water, allowing one teaspoon of salt to each quart of water; 
drain, cover with cold water, and boil about one hour or until tender, 
changing the water once; drain, weigh peel, and add an equal weight 
of sugar; heat slowly, and cook until sugar is almost absorbed. If 
put in air-tight jars it will keep indefinitely. Orange or lemon peel 
may be used in the same way. 

Baked Pears 

Ingredients — 8 hard pears, Vs cup boiling water, % cup sugar, 4 
cloves. 

Preparation — Wipe pears, remove stems, and put in an earthen dish; 
add sugar, water, and cloves; cover, and bake in a slow oven for four 
hours, basting occasionally. Serve cold. 

Pear and Ginger Marmalade 

Ingredients — 8 pounds hard pears, juice of 4 lemons, grated rind 4 
lemons, % pound preserved ginger, 6 pounds sugar. 

Preparation — Quarter and core pears, and put through food chop- 
per; add lemon rind, juice, and ginger (chopped); mix fruit with 
sugar, heat gradually to boiling point, and cook slowly about two 
hours, or until thick. 

Rhubarb and Fig Marmalade 

Ingredients — 3 pounds rhubarb, 1 lemon, 1 pound figs, 1 teaspoon 
ginger, 3 pounds sugar, % teaspoon clove, i/4 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Cut rhubarb, unpeeled, into inch pieces; wash figs and 
put through food chopper; put in preserving kettle with half of sugar 
and let stand over night; in the morning boil until clear, then add 
remaining sugar, juice and grated rind of lemon, and seasonings. Cook 
slowly until thickened. 

Quince Honey 

Ingredients — 6 quinces, SVz pounds sugar, 1 quart water. 

Preparation — Pare, quarter, and core quinces; to the cores and par- 
ings add one pint of water, simmer half an hour, and press through 
a sieve. Chop quinces, using the finest cutter, add a pint of water, 
and simmer while cores are cooking; add pulp and juice from cores 
and boil ten minutes; add sugar and boil about five minutes, or until 
it jellies. 



108 FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 

Spiced Prunes 

Preparation — 2 cups cooked prunes, 2 tablespoons sugar, % cup 
chopped cranberries, juice of 1 orange, V2 cup prune juice, few grat- 
ings orange rind, V2 teaspoon cinnamon, V^ teaspoon paprika. 

Preparation — Stone prunes, cut in small pieces, add other ingredi- 
ents, and simmer twenty minutes. Serve with cold meats. 

Baked Rhubarb and Bananas 

Ingredients — 2 cups rhubarb, % cup sugar, 3 bananas, 1 tablespoon 
butter. 

Preparation — Wash rhubarb and cut, unpeeled, into one-inch pieces; 
peel and slice bananas, and arrange in a baking dish in alternate 
layers with the rhubarb; add sugar and butter, cover, and bake in a 
slow oven two hours. Serve hot or cold. 

Three-in-one Marmalade 

Cut in halves one grape fruit, one orange, and one lemon; remove 
pulp with a teaspoon, saving juice and discarding seeds; remove the 
membrane from peels, and put peel through the food chopper, using 
medium cutter; mix peel, pulp, and juice; measure, and to each cup 
add three cups of cold water; let stand over night; heat slowly to 
the boiling point, and cook one hour, or until peel is tender; measure, 
add an equal amount of sugar; boil about forty minutes, or until a 
little will "jell" when tried on a cold plate. 

Red Tomato Jam 

Ingredients — 3 pounds ripe tomatoes, 2 lemons, 3 pounds sugar, 1 
teaspoon ginger, i/4 teaspoon salt. 

Preparation — Scald and peel tomatoes; cut in halves crosswise and 
discard seeds; put in preserving kettle with sugar, lemon juice and 
ginger; cook slowly about two hours, stirring often with a wooden 
spoon. Skim when necessary. This may be kept in a stone crock 
or sealed in glasses. 

Sweet Pickled Watermelon Rind 

Ingredients — Rind of V2 watermelon, 1% tablespoons cinnamon, 3 
pounds brown sugar, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 quart vinegar, 1 table- 
spoon allspice. 

Preparation — Pare melon rind, cut in inch squares, wash, and drain; 
put sugar and vinegar in a preserving kettle, add spices tied in a 
bag, and boil one hour; add melon rind, and cook about one hour, or 
until tender; put melon rind into a stone crock, boil sirup hard for 
fifteen minutes, and pour over melon. 



CANDIES 109 



CANDIES 

Plain Fondant 

Ingredients — 4 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup boiling water, Vs tea- 
spoon cream of tartar. 

Preparation — Put sugar in a smooth, clean saucepan, add boiling 
water, and stir until dissolved; heat slowly to boiling point, add cream 
of tartar, and boil without stirring to 240° F., or until sirup will form 
a soft ball when tested in cold water. As sirup granulates around 
the sides of saucepan, wash down with a clean brush which has been 
dipped quickly into cold water; pour out upon a slightly oiled slab 
or large platter; as the edges begin to harden, turn them toward the 
center, and when the mixture is partly cooled work with a wooden 
spatula or butter paddle until creamy; when it begins to lump, knead 
with the hands until smooth. Let stand a few hours before using, or 
keep in a covered jar until needed. 

CoflFee Fondant 

Follow recipe for plain fondant, using strong, clear coffee in place 
of water. Or, if only a small quantity is needed, melt plain fondant 
over hot water and add one teaspoon of instantaneous coffee to each 
cup. This may be used melted for mints, or for dipping, or, when 
cooled, for centers. 

Bonbon Centers 

Cut candied fruits or nuts into small pieces, and work with a bit of 
fondant into small balls; let stand a few hours before dipping. Keep 
centers small so that bonbons will not be too large when finished. 

Fondant Bonbons 

Melt fondant over hot water; flavor and color as desired; dip bon- 
bon centers one at a time, and remove with a fork or confectioners' 
dipper; place on an oiled slab or platter until cold. 

Cliocolate Bonbons 

Melt bitter chocolate in a cup over hot water, and dip centers the 
same as for Fondant Bonbons. Dot chocolate (sweetened) may be 
used if preferred. Confectioners' chocolate is best for dipping, but 
cooking chocolate is satisfactory if half a teaspoon of butter is melted 
with each four squares. 

Fondant Mints 

Put plain fondant in cups, melt over hot water, and flavor with a 
few drops of oil of spearmint, wintergreen, orange, lime, or any 
desired flavor; color lightly if desired, and drop from a teaspoon upon 
oiled slab or platter. 

Quick Fondant 

Break the white of an egg into a bowl, add a tablespoon of water 
and about two cups of confectioners' sugar, or enough to knead. Flavor 
with oil, extracts, or grated orange or lemon rind, and color as desired. 
Use for mints (rolled and cut), stuffing dates, prunes, cherries, or 
nuts, or for bonbon centers. 



110 CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT 

CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT: 
CHOCOLATES, NUTS, FRUITS 

Chocolate Creams (No. 1) 

Make your fondant into centers of the size you wish, either small 
balls or cones, and let them stand on waxed paper for several hours 
to harden. Melt unsweetened chocolate in a double boiler, and into 
this dip your balls, either by sticking a toothpick into each one and 
dipping and drawing out the ball by this means, or with the help of a 
perforated spoon or candy dipper. Do the work quickly, and as you 
take out each ball deposit it on waxed paper, leaving it to get hard 
before touching it. Dip but one ball at a time, and if the coating is 
not sufficiently thick repeat the process when the first coating has 
become cold and hard, melting again the unsweetened chocolate. You 
will do better work if the chocolate is in a shallow rather than in a 
deep vesseL The former is easier to use. If you wish vanilla flavor- 
ing for the fondant, work vanilla sugar into it before you make it into 
balls. 

Chocolate Creams (No. 2) 

Prepare your fondant as before directed, working into it vanilla 
sugar or any other flavoring you wish, recollecting not to soften it 
too much to handle it well. Let your balls or cones dry for several 
hours, ranged on waxed paper, before you begin to dip them. Melt 
unsweetened chocolate in a double boiler, and to this add an equal 
quantity of fondant, which you have melted by putting it in a cup set 
in a vessel of boiling water. Stir steadily until it is melted, and then 
blend with the chocolate. If the mixture is too thick, add a very little 
hot water, two or three drops at a time, taking pains not to thin it so 
that it cannot be used with success; have your perforated spoon or 
your candy dipper at hand, rubbed with a little melted butter, and as 
you drop your fondant ball or cone into the chocolate mixture with one 
hand be ready with the other to take it out the instant it has been 
immersed. Shake off into the chocolate any drops which may be 
dripping from the spoon and deposit the balls with their chocolate 
coating on the waxed paper. Bear in mind that the centers are made 
of sugar, and will melt if allowed to remain in the hot chocolate for 
more than an instant. 

When the chocolate mixture hardens during the dipping, as it some- 
times will even when standing in an outer vessel of hot water, set it 
back over the fire again and bring the water to a boil long enough to 
soften the chocolate to the required state. 

Chocolate Cocoanut Creams 

Into four tablespoons of fondant work two tablespoons of grated 
cocoanut, dried in the oven but not brovnied. If you cannot get the 
fresh cocoanut use the desiccated, but this, to my mind, lacks the 
excellence of the fresh. Flavor with vanilla sugar or, if the fondant 
seems too dry and hard, use a few drops of vanilla extract. Make the 
mixture into balls, and when they have hardened on waxed paper for a 
couple of hours, dip them into the melted fondant, which ybu have 
mixed with the melted, unsweetened chocolate. 



CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT 111 

Chocolate Butter Creams 

Put a cup of granulated sugar over the fii-e with a tablespoon of 
good butter and two tablespoons of rich cream, and boil until it makes 
a soft ball in water. When cool, beat it as you would other fondant, 
until it is very white and of a doughy consistency, flavor by the addi- 
tion of vanilla sugar or a few drops of vanilla, and make it into balls. 
Set these aside to cool. Make a chocolate mixture as directed in the 
preceding recipe, with unsweetened chocolate and an equal quantity 
of melted fondant, and dip the balls in this, using a perforated spoon, 
a candy dipper, or even a fork. Stand on waxed paper until firm and 
dry. 

Chocolate Fruit Creams 

Use for this any candied fruit you wish. Cherries may be left 
whole, plums and the like may be quartered, raisins seeded, citron, 
crystallized ginger, or candied pineapple cut into dice, and any of them 
may serve as centers for balls or cones of fondant. After these have 
stood several hours, and are firm, they may be dipped into the choco- 
late and fondant mixture like Nut Chocolate Creams. Only dried 
or crystallized fruits may be used for this purpose, as moisture from 
the fresh fruit would soften the fondant coating. 

Chocolate Nut Balls 

Blanch and chop fine almonds and pistachio nuts in the proportion 
of six of the almonds to one of the pistachio nuts. Or you may use 
chopped English walnuts or hickory nuts or pecans or Brazil nuts. 
Knead these into a tablespoon of the fondant, flavor with a few drops 
of bitter almond, and make into balls or cones. When they have stood 
two hours dip them into melted fondant, flavored and colored, or into 
the chocolate mixture already given. 

Chocolate Nut Creams 

Blanch almonds, split filberts, halve the kernels of larger nuts, 
and set them in the oven until entirely dry and slightly warm. Make 
a ball of a small quantity of fondant, using the nut as the center of 
this and seeing that the kernel is entirely enveloped in the sugar. 
Set aside to become cold and firm, then dip it into the unsweetened 
chocolate and melted fondant prepared as in recipe for Chocolate 
Creams (No. 2). Let them become entirely cold on waxed paper 
before handling them. 

Cocoanut Cream Balls 

Make as directed for centers of Chocolate Cocoanut Creams and dip 
them in fondant which you have melted and then flavored and tinted 
to suit your taste. 

Creamed Figs 

Soak pulled figs in sherry, first washing them in clear water and 
letting them become entirely dry before putting them into the wine. 
Leave them in this for a couple of hours, then take them out and lay 
them in a colander to drip for half and hour. Open them at the stem 
end, thrust in a flat cake of fondant about the size of a quarter and 
three times as thick, roll the figs in powdered sugar, and lay them in 
a box lined with waxed paper. 



112 CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT 

Creamed Almonds 

Shell and blanch Jordan almonds, make small slightly flattened balls 
of the fondant, and on each side of these place an almond kernel, 
pressing them into the sugar until sure it will adhere firmly. 

Creamed Crystallized Fruits 

Cherries, plums, peaches, or any other candied fruit with stones or 
pits may have these removed and little rolls of the fondant made to 
fit into the vacant space. 

Creamed Dates 

Select large, fleshy dates, remove the stones, fill the dates with the 
fondant as directed in the preceding recipe, and then roll them in 
powdered sugar. Keep them in a box, that they may not dry out 
before using. 

Creamed English Walnuts 

With your fingers make a ball of the fondant, softening it over hot 
water if it is too hard to handle easily and moistening it with a few 
drops of any flavoring you wish, so that when it becomes firm it may 
not be too hard. Have ready the halved kernels of English walnuts, 
and lay the ball of fondant between them, pressing them into the 
fondant that they may hold fast to it. Lay them on a plate to dry 
and harden. 

If you wish, you may roll them later in the white of an egg — 
unbeaten — and then in granulated sugar. This gives them an attrac- 
tive sparkle. 

Fruit Rolls 

Chop fine candied fruits — pineapple, ginger, cherries — and put with 
them a few seeded raisins. Work these into the fondant, form into 
rolls, and dip as you do the Cocoanut Creams or Chocolate Cocoanut 
Creams. Or you may make them into balls or cones or small square 
blocks, the shape and size of caramels. 

Spiced Squares 

Take from the mass of fondant about a half cupful, flatten it out, 
work into it a coffee spoonful of Maraschino, sprinkle it with the 
same quantity of ground cinnamon and half as much cloves and nut- 
meg, and knead until the spice and the liquor are well worked into the 
fondant. Press it into a shallow mold with straight sides and cut it 
into square blocks. Wrap each of these in waxed paper and keep all 
in a box. 

Tutti-Frutti Squares 

Into four or five tablespoons of fondant knead a tablespoon of 
chopped citron, crystallized ginger and pineapple, blanched almonds, 
seeded raisins, and a few candied cherries. Flavor with lemon juice 
and a few drops of rum, taking pains not to make the fondant too 
soft to handle, press into a shallow mold with straight sides and cut 
into squares; wrap these in waxed paper. 



CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT 113 

Variegated Tutti-Frutti 

Divide your fondant into four parts. Flavor one with vanilla, and 
leave it white; work a little grated lemon rind and a few drops of the 
juice into the second portion, making it a pale yellow; color the third 
with melted, unsweetened chocolate, kneading this into the fondant 
with a spoon; add to the fourth enough raspberry sirup to tint it pink 
and flavor it delicately. Each one of these should be made into a ball, 
then flattened with the hand and a broad-bladed knife, like an ice 
cream slicer, and trimmed into thin strips, about an inch vdde and as 
long as the material in them will permit. Lay the strip of chocolate 
for a foundation on waxed paper; on this place the yellow, next to 
this the vanilla, — the white, — and last of all the pink. Press these 
closely together, so that they will adhere to one another without 
blending. Wrap in waxed paper and leave for half a day, then trim 
off the ragged or uneven edges with a sharp knife and cut the candy 
into blocks, each having all four flavors and colors in it. 



CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT: 

MISCELLANEOUS SWEETMEATS 

Candied Rose Leaves 

Add to a cup of fondant three drops of lemon juice, and stir over 
hot water or in a vessel set in a pan of hot water until thoroughly 
melted. Have fine, perfect rose leaves, which you have spread cut 
and allowed to become dry but not crisp. Dip each rose leaf in the 
fondant, take it out carefully with the point of a toothpick, and lay 
on an oiled board or a sheet of waxed paper to dry. 

Candied Mint Leaves can be prepared in the same way. 
Candied Violets 

Follow recipe for Candied Rose Leaves, holding the violets by the 
stems to dip them and laying them on waxed paper or in an oiled 
colander to dry. When they have stood for several hours they should 
be ready to put away, but if they do not seem sufficiently sugared, 
repeat the dipping process. The work of candying flowers is not sim- 
ple and is hardly worth the trouble it costs to do it at home, unless 
one has plenty of flowers, unlimited time, and boundless patience. 

Chocolate Mints 
Prepare peppermint creams from the fondant by adding to it a few 
drops of essence of peppermint and then dropping the softened fon- 
dant by the coffee spoonful on oiled paper, taking pains to put the 
mints far enough apart to keep them from running together. If you 
choose, you may color them pale green with spinach coloring or deli- 
cate pink with cochineal, or you may use the vegetable colorings, or 
even leave them white, as they are to be coated with chocolate. Let 
them become cold and hard before dipping them. Prepare the coating 
of equal parts of melted chocolate and fondant. Drop the mints into 
it one at a time with the left hand and remove with the candy dipper 
or perforated spoon or fork held in the right hand. If they are left 
in longer than the second needed for dipping them they are likely to 
melt. There is always danger of this vdth fondant, but especially 
so with the thin mint or wintergreen drops. 



114 CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT 

Chocolate Chestnuts 

For this you must use the French chestnuts or marrons, either the 
candied or those conserved. If the latter, they must be drained from 
sirup and dried in a warm oven. Melt equal parts of unsweetened 
chocolate and fondant, flavor with a little vanilla, and into this dip 
the chestnuts, using a candy dipper or perforated spoon. Tap this 
against the side of the saucepan as you lift the nut from the fondant, 
then lay it on waxed paper. While dipping your nuts or fruit, always 
keep the fondant in a vessel set in another of boiling water. 

Chocolate Wintergreens 

Prepare as you do the peppermints, using a few drops of essence 
of wintergreen instead of the peppermint, allowing the drops to 
become cool and firm before dipping them, and after they are dipped 
laying them on waxed paper until the coating has hardened. 

Cocoanut Strips 

Grate cocoanut and allow a half cup of this to one cup of the fon- 
dant. Work the cocoanut into this, kneading it until it is soft and 
well mixed. The freshly grated cocoanut will soften the fondant a 
little, and if it seems to lack the right consistency add to it confec- 
tioners' sugar, putting it in cautiously a little at a time, until you have 
the right stiffness. Press the candy into a shallow pan with straight 
sides, making a layer about the thickness of a caramel, and cut it into 
long strips when entirely cold. 

Creamed Strawberries 

Heat half a cup of fondant in a saucepan set in an outer vessel of 
boiling water, softening it with a few drops of boiling water, adding 
this cautiously so as not to make the mixture too thin. Stir the fon- 
dant constantly. Have ready firm, ripe strawberries which should 
have been shaken and brushed clean of dust, if necessary, but not 
washed. Hold each one firmly by the hull, gathering this carefully 
between the thumb and fingers. Dip the berry into the fondant, hold 
it for a minute, that it may drip a little, put gently on waxed paper 
and set aside. Should the strawberry not be sufficiently coated by 
one dip, dip it again. No color of the strawberry should show through 
the fondant. These berries should be put in paper cases before serv- 
ing, and will not keep more than a few hours. The juice in them 
softens the filling by the end of that time. 

Cherries, fresh or brandied, Malaga grapes and sections of oranges 
or mandarins may be creamed in the same way. 

Macaroon Chocolates 

For this, purchase the almond paste of which macaroons are made, 
put a half cup of it with an equal quantity of fondant, and knead 
them together. If the mixture is hard and too crumbly to handle 
easily, add to it a few drops of bitter almond, and if this does not 
soften the candy sufficiently add a little hot water, using this with 
caution lest the candy become too soft. Make it into balls or cones 
and dip these in a mixture of melted, unsweetened chocolate and fon- 
dant heated together in a vessel set in boiling water. Put to dry 
on waxed paper. 



CANDIES WITH COOKED FONDANT 115 

Maple Fondant 

Put one cup of crushed maple sugar, one cup of granulated sugar, 
and a half cup of boiling water together over the fire. Stir until 
dissolved, cook five minutes longer, add a quarter teaspoon of cream 
of tartar, and boil until it reaches the soft-ball stage. Proceed as 
directed with plain fondant in the instructions given for preparing 
this. 

Maple Fondant Bonbons 

Make the maple fondant as directed above, then form balls from 
it with the fingers, flattening them slightly on one side. On this 
press half a pecan, a walnut kernel, a blanched almond, or a small 
square of citron or other candied fruit of a flavor which will combine 
agreeably with the maple. 

Maple-Nut Squares 

Chop fine two tablespoons of nuts, either one kind or mixed, and 
work into a cup of the maple fondant, kneading it until they are 
thoroughly incorporated. Press the fondant into a shallow pan with 
straight sides, making a sheet about half an inch thick, and when this 
is cold cut it into squares. 

Nut and Fruit Bonbons 

Divide your fondant into several portions, giving each a different 
color and flavor. Shape balls about the size of a marble, flattening 
them slightly on one side, and press upon the plane surface a nut of 
any sort, — a pecan, a portion of the kernel of an English walnut, a 
blanched almond or a slice of a Brazil nut. Set aside to become hard 
and cool. In the same manner you may use, instead of the nut, a little 
piece of crystallized fruit, like a bit of ginger, angelica, pineapple, 
fig, or a seeded raisin. These bonbons may be served plain, or may 
be dipped in melted, unstirred fondant for a second and then rolled 
in granulated sugar, to give them a sparkling finish. As the fondant 
' hardens rapidly it is better to work and soften only one tint or flavor 
at a time and make all the bonbons of this special variety at once 
instead of going from one to the others. In this connection I wish 
to repeat my counsel to have all ingredients and implements at hand 
before you start on your work, so that you may not be interrupted 
at a critical moment to go in search of something you need in a hurry. 

Nut Rolls 

Flavor half a pound of fondant with a few drops of vanilla and 
work into it chopped almonds, pecans, or walnuts. Two tablespoons 
of the nuts will be sufficient for this quantity of fondant. Divide 
the fondant into pieces about the size of an English walnut and with 
the palm of the hand, rubbed with confectioners' sugar, roll the piece 
on waxed paper until you have converted it into a long, slim roll. 
If this seems too large for your purpose, cut it in two across the 
length. Have ready two more tablespoons of chopjied nuts, melt a 
little of the fondant in a shallow dish, then roll your pieces of fon- 
dant first in this, then in the chopped nuts, and last in granulated 
sugar; lay them on waxed paper to dry. 



116 BONBONS, CONFECTIONS AND DIPPED CANDIES 

Maple Surprise Bonbons 

Of the maple fondant make disks about the size of a quarter of a 
dollar and twice as thick, and press between two of these, while soft, 
the half kernel of an English walnut, pinching the edges together so 
that the nut is entirely encased. Melt white fondant, stirring it so 
that it may not go back to sirup, dip the maple bonbon in this, take 
it out with a candy dipper or perforated spoon, and lay it to dry 
on waxed paper. 

You may vary these by dipping some of the bonbons in chocolate 
and by tinting the white fondant pink, green, or yellow. 

Surprise Bonbons 

Form disks of the fondant as directed in recipe for Maple Surprise 
Bonbons. Between these inclose slices of candied fruit or nuts, and 
dip these into maple fondant or chocolate and fondant mixture. Or 
you may make the inner bonbon of a different color and flavor from 
that used in the coating, selecting flavors which will heighten each 
other, as vanilla and raspberry, lemon or orange and vanilla, or 
chocolate and strawberry. 



BONBONS, CONFECTIONS AND DIPPED CANDIES 

Almonds, Creamed 

Shell and blanch burnt almonds and lay them in the open oven to 
dry, but do not let them brown. Put one cup of granulated sugar 
over the fire with one tablespoon of water; stir until it is well dis- 
solved and comes to a boil. Drop into this the blanched almonds a 
few at a time and take them out immediately with a perforated spoon 
or candy dipper, laying them on waxed paper until they harden, or 
upon buttered plates. 

Fig Paste 

In just enough water to cover them, boil a pound of pulled figs 
until soft (first washing the figs carefully). When soft, take them 
from the fire and drain. Putting the water to one side, chop the figs 
fine, then return them to the water in which they were stewed. 
There should be about one cup of this. If there is more, boil it down 
to the required quantity. Stir in three cups of sugar and cook slowly 
until it is a thick paste. Turn into a shallow, straight-sided pan, 
lined with buttered paper, and when cool cut into squares. 

Fruit and Chocolate Confections 

Prepare as in preceding recipe and work into the mixed fruits two 
tablespoons of grated chocolate. The unsweetened is best for this, as 
the fruits are so heavy with sugar that further sweetening would 
be rather cloying. Follow the same process of rolling out and cut- 
ting, etc., as for Fruit Confections. 

Fruit and Nut Confections 

To the ingredients given in the recipe for Fruit Confections add a 
half pound of English walnut kernels or of blanched almonds, grind, 
and mix with the fruit. Follow the same plan of mixing and finishing. 



BONBONS, CONFECTIONS AND DIPPED CANDIES 117 

Fruit Confections 

Put through a meat chopper a half pound each of figs and crystal- 
lized ginger and a quarter pound each of candied angelica and cher- 
ries; work together until all are blended; roll with a rolling pin or 
press with the hands into a sheet about the thickness of a caramel, 
sprinkling with a good layer of confectioners' sugar the board on 
which you do this. Cut into small shapes with a cake-cutter or with 
a sharp knife, roll the pieces in granulated sugar, and arrange in a 
box lined with waxed paper, placing waxed paper between the layers. 

Fruit (Candied) Dipped or Glazed 

Cut citron, crystallized ginger, pineapple, or any other fruit into 
small squares. Have ready in a saucepan a half pint of water and stir 
into this two cups of granulated sugar. This should be done over 
the fire. Do not stir the sugar after it is dissolved but boil, wiping 
the sugar crystals from the inside of the saucepan as they form 
there, and cook until a little of the sirup, dropped into cold water, 
becomes brittle at once. Watch carefully, that the sirup does not 
cook too long and change color. As soon as it is brittle remove from 
the fire, set it in a pan of boiling water, drop your fruit, a piece at 
a time, into the sirup, and take it out at once with a greased, per- 
forated spoon, a fork, or a candy dipper. Have sheets of waxed 
paper at hand on which to lay the candy. If the sugar in which you 
are dipping your fruit hardens, it may be heated once or even twice, 
but not more than that, as after a second heating it becomes too 
hard to be used for this purpose. Be careful not to stir it at all. 

Fruit (Fresh) Dipped or Glazed 

Make the sugar for dipping by the preceding recipe or as follows: 
Stir until boiling two cups of sugar, one cup of water, and a tablespoon 
of corn sirup; after boiling begins do not stir at all, but wipe the 
sugar crystals from the sides of the saucepan as already directed. 
When the sirup reaches the brittle stage take it from the fire, stand 
the saucepan in a pan of boiling water, and dip into it quarters of 
oranges or of mandarins, Malaga or Tokay grapes, two at a time 
on a stem, ripe cherries, or other small fruits. To dip these you 
must either hold them by the stem or else with a pair of candy or 
sugar tongs. The old-fashioned kind, with two miniature spoons at 
the end, are better than the tongs with claws, since these are likely 
to pierce the fruit and the juice which escapes thins the sirup and 
may prevent its hardening as it should. Lay the dipped fruits on 
waxed paper. You should have the small paper cases in which to 
put them if you mean to serve them as bonbons, but the dipped 
fruits made in this way are an attractive garnish for cakes and 
desserts. 

Oranges, Candied 

Peel large, sweet oranges and divide carefully into lobes, remov- 
ing the white inner skin. Boil together three cups of sugar and one 
of water, as directed for other candied fruits, and after the sirup 
reaches the brittle stage add to it the juice of a lemon. Dip the sec- 
tions of orange into this and lay on waxed paper to dry. 



118 BONBONS, CONFECTIONS AND DIPPED CANDIES 

Nuts Dipped or Glazed 

These may be prepared by either recipe and are dipped as fruits 
would be. Blanch almonds, divide the kernels of English walnuts, 
hickory nuts, or pecans, peel chestnuts and roast them very lightly, 
and remove from Brazil nuts all the dark inner skin. 

Peach Leather 

Small peaches may be used for this, but they should be unspecked. 
Wash them carefully, rubbing all the fuzz from them, cut in half 
and remove the stones, and put the fruit over the fire to stew, allow- 
ing a quarter pound of sugar to every pound of the peaches. Cook 
until soft, stirring and mashing it as it simmers, and w^hen it reaches 
the consistency when it can be spread out on a board in a thin sheet 
turn it out on platters or on a board well greased with butter, and 
set the "leather" in the hot sun to dry. Protect it from the flies and 
other insects by fine netting or by panes of glass. When dry it can 
be rolled up. Sprinkle it lightly with granulated sugar before roll- 
ing, then dip the rolls into sugar. Wrap in waxed paper and then 
in a cloth, and the sweetmeat will keep indefinitely. 

Perhaps this might not have quite the flavor to others that it 
possesses for the Virginians who learned to love it in childhood, but 
I think that even the grown-ups who eat it for the first time will 
find the taste pleasing and with a reminiscence of the ripe peach 
aroma about it that cannot be found in more elaborate candies. 

Stuffed Raisins 

For this purpose buy the finest layer raisins. Pick them from 
the stem and lay them in cold water for several hours, so that they 
may plump and soften. Make a little incision with a small, sharp 
penknife or a pair of scissors and slip out the seeds. Prepare such 
a fruit mixture as directed for stuffed prunes, and insert tiny rolls 
of this in the raisins. Or you may use single fruits or nuts — a sliver 
of almond, a shred of citron or candied ginger, or anything else of 
the kind — and put them in. A good plan is to sort the raisins into 
two sizes, fill the smaller with such stuffing as I have described, 
and slip these into the larger raisins. In either case, roll the raisin 
— the outer one — in granulated sugar and lay in boxes lined with 
waxed paper. 

Strawberry Sweetmeats 

Hull fresh ripe strawberries and sprinkle them with granulated 
sugar in the proportion of a cup of this to every pound of fruit and 
let them stand in this for four hours. Drain the sirup from the 
berries at the end of this time and put it over the fire in a preserving 
kettle; bring to a boil, and drop the berries into it. Leave them in 
only until the sirup regains its boil, then take them out with a per- 
forated skimmer and spread the berries on flat dishes. Place these 
in the sun and leave them out all day, protecting them by netting. At 
night bring them in, and the next morning turn the fruit over and 
give it another sunning. If one day more does not dry them suf- 
ficiently, supply a further sun treatment. Pack them in glass jars, 
alternating the layers of fruit with strewings of sugar. Peach 
Sweetmeats may be made in the same way. 



HOMEMADE COUGH CANDIES 119 

Quince Leather 

This may be made like the Peach Leather, but there must be added 
to it the rind and juice of a lemon for every three pounds of the 
fruit, or else a couple of ounces of green ginger in the same propor- 
tion. It is good, but not equal to the Peach Leather. 

Stuffed Prunes 

Select the large prunes for this and lay them in cold water for 
three hours. Then put them in the steamer and cook until the skins 
are tender. Slip out the stones. Have a mixture made of candied 
fruits — ginger, cherries, dates, fig, what you will — chopped fine with 
an equal quantity of English walnuts, pecans, or blanched almonds. 
Fill with this the spaces left vacant by the stones, restoring the 
prunes as nearly as you may to their natural shape, roll them in 
granulated sugar, and put them aside to become thoroughly dry and 
firm before eating them. 

HOMEMADE COUGH CANDIES 

Cough Candy (No. 1) 

Break slippery-elm bark into small pieces, put into a half pint cup 
as much of the bark as it will hold, and pour in enough hot water 
to fill to the brim; let the bark soak in this for an hour. Fill another 
half-pint cup half full of whole flaxseed and brim this with hot 
water, leaving the seed to soak for an hour. At the end of that time 
put three cups of brown sugar in a saucepan, strain the water from 
the slippery elm and the flaxseed, and add to the sugar. Stirring con- 
stantly, cook until the sugar has boiled past the sirup stage and 
becomes sugary again; turn out into a buttered tin and when it is 
cold break into small pieces. This is better if flavored to taste with 
lemon juice. 

Cough Candy (No. 2) 

Measure a half cup of white flaxseed — the whole seed, not the meal 
— into a dish; pour over it a half pint of boiling water. Into another 
dish measure a cup of broken slippery-elm bark and pour over this 
just enough water to cover it and let both steep for two hours. Strain 
into a saucepan, pressing from the seed and bark all the water you 
can, that as much as possible of the value of these may be obtained. 
Add three pounds of granulated sugar and the juice of two lemons, 
and boil the mixture until it is brittle when dropped into cold water. 
Turn out into buttered pans or dishes and cut or break into pieces. 

Cough Drops 

Put a half cup of slippery-elm bark and the same quantity of white 
flaxseed — the whole seed, — into a saucepan or bov/1, pour one cup 
of hot water over them and steep for an hour, stirring them occasion- 
ally. At the end of that time strain through a flannel or jelly bag. 
Put three cups of granulated sugar in this infusion, set the sauce- 
pan over the fire, and stir it for two minutes after the sugar melts. 
Drop the mixture from a teaspoon or candy dipper upon oiled or 
waxed paper and leave the cough drops on this until they are entirely 
cold. Moisten the paper on the under side and they will come off 
easily. If you wish, you may flavor with lemon juice, peppermint, 
or wintergreen when you mix the sugar and the infusion. 



120 HOMEMADE COUGH CANDIES 

Hoarhound Candy 

Steep a heaping tablespoon of hoarhound leaves in a half cup of 
boiling water and let them stand in this for an hour, strain off» 
squeezing the leaves to get all the value from them, put over the fire 
with two cups of brown sugar, stir until the sugar is dissolved, add 
a tablespoon of vinegar, and boil until a little of the candy is brittle 
when dropped into cold water. Turn out into a buttered pan, cut 
into squares when the candy begins to harden, and when cold break 
apart. 

Hoarhound Drops 

Prepare the infusion of leaves as directed in the preceding recipe 
and make the mixture of sugar and water. When the sugar is dis- 
solved add a tablespoon of lemon juice, cook until the candy has 
reached the brittle stage, and then drop it from a teaspoon or a candy 
dipper upon buttered paper and let it become cold before removing 
from the paper. Either the candy or the drops may be made from 
the fresh hoarhound leaves as well as from the dried. 

Irish Moss Cough Candy 

Wash a cupful of Irish moss in cold water, pour a quart of boiling 
water upon it, put it over the fire, and simmer very gently for half 
an hour, then set it aside and let the moss become cold in the water. 
Take out the moss, return to the fire the water in which it was 
cooked, and let this boil down until you have only a pint of the 
liquid. Add to this four cups of granulated sugar. Stir until dis- 
solved, then cook without stirring until the mixture is brittle when 
a little of it is dropped into cold water. Add a tablespoon of lemon 
juice, turn from the saucepan into buttered pans, mark into squares 
with a knife, and when cold break these apart. 

Licorice Cough Candy 

Break two ounces of licorice in a half cup of hot water, leave until 
it dissolves, and put it with a cup of gum arable which has been dis- 
solved in a cup of wai*m water and strained through a cloth. Heat 
these in a saucepan with two cups of confectioners' sugar, and stir 
until it has boiled to the stage where a little of it is hard and elastic 
when dropped into cold water. Pour into a shallow pan, well buttered, 
and stand this in a warm place to dry. When it is elastic without 
being brittle, remove to a cool place and leave until cold. Break 
into small pieces. 



UNPULLED CANDIES 121 



UNPULLED CANDIES: BUTTERSCOTCH 
AND CARAMELS 

Bntterscotch (No. 1) 

Put two cups of sugar into a clean agate saucepan with a cup of 
cold water and two tablespoons of vinegar. Stir until well mixed; 
bring to a boil and cook for ten minutes. Add four tablespoons of 
butter to the sirup and boil until a little dropped from a spoon in 
cold water hardens at once. Have ready a large clean tin, greased 
with butter, pour the candy into this and set aside to cool. When 
it begins to form cut into squares with a buttered knife. Leave it 
in the pan until cold and brittle, and then put away in a jar or in 
a box lined with waxed paper. Keep the box in a cool, dry place. 

Butterscotch (No. 2) 

Boil together a cu]^ of brown sugar, a half cup of water, and two 
cups of molasses until it reaches the soft-ball stage. Add then half 
a cup of butter, cook ten minutes longer, and pour into shallow pans 
to cool. Mark into squares with a greased knife and let it become 
perfectly cold before eating it. Should the molasses make it too 
stringy for your taste, use equal parts of this and the sugar. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 1) 

Bring to a boil four cups of granulated sugar, half a pint of milk, 
quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of chocolate. Cook 
until a little hardens when dropped into cold water; flavor with two 
teaspoons extract of vanilla, take at once from the fire, turn into 
buttered tins; mark into squares with a knife as soon as the sirup 
cools, and leave in the pan until entirely cold. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 2) 

Mix in a saucepan two cups of brown sugar, half a cup each of 
molasses (not siinip) and cream, half a cake of unsweetened choco- 
late, and four tablespoons of butter. Bring to a boil slowly, taking 
care the sugar does not scorch before it is entirely melted, cook 
steadily until a little of the candy is brittle if dropped in cold water, 
add two teaspoons vanilla, turn into a greased pan, and cut into 
squares as soon as it is cool. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 3) 

Mix one cup of molasses with a quarter cup of water and a half 
cup of granulated sugar. Stir over the fire until the sugar is dis- 
solved; put in two ounces of unsweetened chocolate and two table- 
spoons of butter, and cook until the chocolate melts; then cook with- 
out stirring for fifteen minutes. Test a little of the candy in a cup 
of cold water. If it forms a soft ball between the fingers it is ready 
to be taken from the fire; if not, continue the low, steady boil, 
watching carefully that the candy does not scorch, until the soft-ball 
stage is reached. Flavor with a teaspoon of vanilla and take from 
the fire. Pour into buttered pans and proceed as already directed in 
caramel recipes. 



122 UNPULLED CANDIES 



Chocolate Cream Caramels 

Scrape unsweetened chocolate to the amount of two tablespoons; 
put with half a pint of boiling water in a saucepan, and bring to the 
boil again. Add one cup sugar and let the mixture boil for ten 
minutes. Weigh and grate three-quarters of a pound of unsweetened 
chocolate, and put this with the chocolate sirup; leave them over 
the fire until the chocolate is well melted, add two cups of cream and 
three cups of granulated sugar; and after the candy boils stir it con- 
stantly for ten minutes, adding a tablespoon of vanilla. By the end 
of that time you should have a large ball of the candy, and pour 
it out on a big buttered plater or into greased tins. It is still better 
to turn it on a marble slab if you have it, but if not the others will 
serve. So thick a mass will take a long time to cool even enough 
to be cut into squares and still more to become cold enough to eat. 
As may be seen from the ingredients, this is a rich and rather expen- 
sive candy and too much of it should not be eaten at a time. 

Cocoanut Caramels 

Put three cups of granulated sugar, one tablespoon of butter, and 
half a cup of milk over the fire, and stir until dissolved. Have ready 
grated half a cocoanut; add this to the sirup and cook until a little 
of it, dropped into water, will form a ball; add a teaspoon of flavor- 
ing, either vanilla or lemon as you may prefer, turn into buttered 
tins, and when cool mark into squares with a buttered knife. 

Cofifee Caramels 

Slowly heat a cup of brown sugar and a cup of molasses and when 
the sugar is thoroughly dissolved bring the mixture to a slow boil. 
Cook until a little of it, dropped into cold water, forms a soft ball; 
then stir in two tablespoons of butter and three tablespoons of coffee. 
If you cannot buy the coffee extract at your grocer's make a substi- 
tute for it of very strong black coffee, made in the proportion of a 
tablespoon of finely ground coffee to an after-dinner cup of water, 
and drip this through six times. After the coffee and butter have 
gone into the sirup, cook it until a small quantity, dropped into iced 
water, is brittle and cracks between the fingers. Pour into a greased 
pan, and v/hen cool cut into squares with a greased knife. 

Maple Caramels (No. 1) 

Crush two pounds of maple sugar into coarse fragments, put it 
over the fire in a quart of rich milk, and cook steadily, watching 
carefully that the milk does not scorch, until the candy hardens when 
dropped into cold water. Turn into greased pans; when cold, cut into 
squares with a buttered knife. 

Maple Caramels (No. 2) 

Crush a pound of maple sugar as fine as you can; have ready 
a pint of hot milk in a saucepan, and stir the sugar in this until 
melted. Bring to a hard boil and keep stirring until the sirup reaches 
the soft-ball stage; then put in a tablespoon of butter and cook a 
while longer. When a little, dropped in cold water, is brittle, pour 
the sugar into greased pans and mark into squares when cool. 



UNPULLED CANDIES 123 



Maple-Nut Caramels 

Make maple caramels by either of the preceding recipes. Have 
ready a cup of nut meats of any kind, carefuly freed from bits of 
shell and broken into small pieces. Two minutes before taking the 
candy from the fire stir in the nut meats, and as soon as the candy 
returns to the boil pour it out into buttered pans and cut into squares 
when it begins to harden. 

Nut Caramels 

Follow the recipe for chocolate, coffee, or vanilla caramels and when 
almost done, just before adding the flavoring, put a cup of kernels 
into the sirup. Hickory and pecan nuts should be broken into quar- 
ters, English walnuts and black walnuts divided into even smaller 
pieces, filberts or hazel nuts, almonds and Brazil nuts sliced. 

Opera Caramels 

Put with two cups of granulated sugar enough milk to dissolve it 
and add a quarter teaspoon of cream of tartar; heat over a slow fire 
and stir constantly while it boils until it reaches the soft-ball stage. 
Turn it out then into a shallow greased pan and when cool enough 
to be almost formed stir it and work it with greased fingers until you 
have a mass of a consistency like dough. Lay it then on a pastry 
board, which you have sprinkled with sugar, roll it out with a rolling 
pin into a sheet half an inch thick, cut it into squares with a knife, 
and put these in a box lined with waxed paper. 

Pineapple Caramels 

Cook together three cups of granulated sugar, one tablespoon of 
butter, and half a cup of milk until they reach the soft-ball stage. 
Have ready a half cup of fresh pineapple juice, add this to the 
candy, cook until a little of it is brittle in cold water. Then proceed 
as with other caramels. 

Vanilla Caramels (No. 1) 

Melt two tablespoons of butter with one cup light brown sugar, 
one cup of molasses, and one cup of cream. If you have not the cream 
use an extra tablespoon of butter. Cook to the stage where the 
candy hardens in cold water, add two teaspoons of vanilla, and pour 
into greased pans. When cool, cut into squares with a buttered knife. 

Vanilla Caramels (No. 2) 

Stir together a quarter cup each of butter and molasses and two 
cups of granulated sugar; add to these, when well blended, a half 
cup of cream. Put over the fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved 
and the mixture begins to bubble, but do not stir at all after the boil 
is well under way. When a teaspoon of the mixture, dropped into 
cold water, forms a rather hard ball, flavor with two teaspoons of 
vanilla, take at once from the stove, and beat until the mixture 
becomes creamy, scraping the sugar from the side as you stir. While 
still soft enough to pour, turn the candy into buttered pans, making 
a sheet the usual caramel thickness, and cut into squares with a 
buttered knife. 



124 UNPULLED CANDIES 



Vanilla-Nut Caramels 

Make as directed in either of the preceding recipes. Have ready 
your shelled nuts, cut into pieces, — and blanched, if you use almonds 
— put them into the candy just before you take it from the fire or 
pour them into the buttered pans, spreading them out evenly over 
the surface, and turn the candy upon them. 



UNPULLED CANDIES: COCOANUT, CREAM, 
AND MAPLE CANDIES 

Cocoanut Balls 

Put together in a saucepan three cups of granulated sugar and 
two cups of cold water; boil until the sugar spins a thread from the 
tine of a fork or the point of a skewer dipped into it. Have ready 
a good-sized cocoanut, grated; stir this into the sirup, take at once 
from the fire, and when cool enough to handle form into balls with 
the fingers, dipping these into powdered sugar if the paste sticks 
to them. Set away on waxed paper to dry. 

Cocoanut Bars 

Put three cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of water, and a 
quarter teaspoon of cream of tartar in a saucepan over the fire and 
cook until a little of it is brittle when dropped into cold water. 
Remove the kettle from the fire and, as soon as the mixture begins 
to cool, stir and beat it hard, scraping the sugar from the sides of 
the saucepan. It will granulate a little and have a creamy appear- 
ance. Have ready half a good-sized cocoanut, grated, and while the 
candy is still soft enough to stir beat the cocoanut into it, mixing it 
thoroughly. Pour at once into your greased pans and cut into long, 
narrow strips. Wrap in waxed paper. 

You may make chocolate bars by the same recipe, adding to the 
candy grated and melted chocolate in place of the cocoanut. 

Cocoanut Taffy 
Melt quarter of a pound (about four tablespoons) of butter in a 
saucepan; add two cups of brown sugar and boil until it is brittle 
in cold water. Have ready half a cocoanut, grated or shredded with 
a knife into fine shavings, and let these stand in a warm place, spread 
out in a pan, while the candy is cooking. When this reaches the 
stage of brittleness turn in the cocoanut and pour it into greased 
pans. It will be rather brittle when cold. 

Cocoanut and Molasses Candy 
Boil a quart of dark molasses — the New Orleans is the best — for 
half an hour, keeping it at a »hard boil all the time. When it has 
cooked thirty minutes add a half teaspoon of baking soda. Try it 
in cold water until it breaks between the fingers. Turn into it then 
as much grated cocoanut as it will hold — a whole one is not too much 
— and when this is well mixed you may either pour the candy into 
greased tins and mark it into squares when it cools or drop it by the 
spoonful on waxed paper. In either form it is sticky and good! 



UNPULLED CANDIES 125 



Cocoanut Cream Candy 

Put over the fire two cups of sugar with half a cup of milk, and 
cook for five minutes after it comes to the boil. Add then a quarter 
of a teaspoon of cream of tartar, cook to the soft-ball stage, and 
take from the fire. Stir into the sirup a half pound of grated cocoa- 
nut and a tablespoon of vanilla. Stir until the candy begins to harden 
a little, and then either turn it into greased pans and cut when cool 
into long bars, or drop the mixture by the large teaspoonful_ upon 
waxed paper and leave it to harden. Use the fresh cocoanut if you 
can get it, and when you make the candy into drops ornament each 
with a candied cherry on top, a small square of citron, or other 
crystallized fruit. Ginger is good for the purpose. 

Creamed Pop Corn 

Put together half a cup of water and two cups of granulated sugar 
and boil without stirring until a little of it is brittle when dropped 
into cold water. Have ready crisp, well-popped com, and stir into the 
sirup as much com as it will take up. The mixture should be very 
thick. Have ready sheets of buttered paper laid in pans or dishes, put 
the pop com candy on this by the large tablespoonful, and when it 
begins to cool form each spoonful into a ball with the sugared fingers 
and roll them over in freshly-popped com mixed with sugar, so that 
these will adhere to the sticky surface of the balls. As each one is 
done, wrap it in waxed paper. 

Cream Candy (No. 1) 

Put a cup and a half of granulated sugar and a cup and a half of 
light brown sugar together in a saucepan with two-thirds of a cup 
of cold water and half a cup of corn sirup, and bring to a boil._ Cook 
until the sirup spins a thread from the tip of a fork dipped into it, 
take from the fire, and pour on the whites of two eggs beaten so stiff 
they will not drop from the bowl when this is turned over. Add to 
the mixture a cup of nut meats chopped coarsely. Turn into shallow 
greased pans; mark into squares with buttered knife when cold. 

Cream Candy (No. 2) 

Stir together two cups of granulated sugar, one cup of water, and 
half a cup of heavy cream or half a cup of milk and a tablespoon 
of butter; put over the fire and cook until it reaches the soft-ball 
stage. Add another tablespoon of butter, cook until the candy is 
brittle when a little is dropped in water, flavor with two teaspoons 
of vanilla, pour into shallow plates, and put aside to cool. 

Cream Candy No. 3) 

Put into a saucepan two cups of granulated sugar, one cup of water, 
half a teaspoon of cream of tartar; put over the fire and boil gently 
until a little of the candy is hard when dropped into cold water. Do 
not cook until it reaches the brittle stage. Turn out into greased 
pans to cool. 

This candy may be flavored with vanilla, lemon, peppermint, win- 
tergreen, rose, or anything else desired. Add the flavoring just 
before the saucepan is taken from the fire. 



126 UNPULLED CANDIES 



Cocoanut Drops 

Grate a cocoanut very fine or put it through a meat chopper. Add 
to it half a pound of powdered sugar; whip the whites of two eggs 
to a stiff froth and beat the cocoanut and sugar into these. Have 
ready your pans lined with buttered paper, drop the candy mixture 
on this by the teaspoonful, and bake in a quick oven. Do not take 
from the papers until cold. 

Maple Balls 

Bring to a gentle boil two cups of crushed maple sugar and one 
cup of water. Do not stir after it is fairly melted. When it is hard 
when dropped into cold water put in a heaping tablespoon of butter; 
take from the fire, and as soon as the first heat is passed beat the 
candy vigorously. When it becomes cool enough to handle, make into 
balls with the fingers. 

Maple-Nut Candy (No. 1) 

Before removing from the fire the candy for which a recipe has 
just been given stir into it a cupful of chopped nut meats of any sort. 
Mix them in the boiling sirup, and when it regains its boil take from 
the stove. 

Maple-Nut Candy (No. 2) 

Cook together four cups of crushed maple sugar and a cup of water 
until a little of it is brittle when dropped into water. Have ready 
shallow greased pans spread with nut kernels — hickory nuts, black 
or white walnuts, almonds, pecans, filberts, butternuts — anything 
you choose, and pour the maple candy over them. This is especially 
good when made with black walnuts or butternuts. 

Maple-Nut Candy (No. 3) 

Put over the fire a pound of soft new maple sugar, broken into 
pieces, with a quarter cup of water and a half cup of cream or, if 
you cannot get this, half a cup of milk and a tablespoon of butter. 
Cook until it reaches the soft-ball stage, stir in a cup of broken 
nut meats, take from the fire, beat until creamy. Then turn into a 
buttered pan and when it cools mark into squares. 

Maple Creams (No. 1) 

Crush a pound of maple sugar and put it over the fire with a cup 
of heavy cream. Boil until a little of it, dropped into cold water, 
makes a soft ball; take from the fire and beat until it is of a creamy 
consistency, scraping it from the side of the saucepan as you work. 
A silver fork is the best implement, although a spoon may be used. 
Turn into buttered pans and let it cool. 

Maple Creams (No. 2) 

Break four cups of maple sugar into pieces, then crush with a 
rolling pin and put over the fire with a cup of water and a quarter 
teaspoon of cream of tartar. Boil until it reaches the soft-ball stage, 
and take from the fire. When almost cold begin to beat, and con- 
tinue until the candy becomes creamy; then turn it into a shallow, 
buttered pan. Do not eat it until it is perfectly cold. 



UNPULLED CANDIES 127 

Maple Drops 

Crush maple sugar very fine and put four ounces of it and a table- 
spoon of water in a granite saucepan. Set it on the fire, and when 
the sugar begins to melt stir with a spoon for a few minutes. Let 
it boil for about five minutes. Have ready sheets of buttered paper 
and drop the maple on this by the small teaspoonful, putting the 
drops far enough apart so that they will not run into one another. 
Let them cool on the paper before moving them. 

This is a recipe it is impossible to give with entire accuracy, since 
much of the success in making the drops depends upon the experience 
that has taught the exact stage at which the sugar should be taken 
from the fire. When this is once mastered the candy is easily and 
quickly made. 



UNPULLED CANDIES: FUDGES AND 
SIMPLE NUT CANDIES 

Chocolate Fudge (No. 1) 

Boil together two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of unsweet- 
ened chocolate, broken or grated, two tablespoons of butter, and one 
cup of milk. Stir constantly while the mixture is boiling that it may 
not burn, and cook for twenty minutes. Then dip out a teaspoon 
of the candy and test it in cold water, and when it will form a ball 
between the fingers flavor the candy with two teaspoons of vanilla, 
stir hard for a few minutes, and turn into greased tins. Cut into 
squares while still warm. 

Chocolate Fudge (No. 2) 

Cook together a cup each of brown sugar and of grated chocolate, 
half a cup of milk, and a quarter cup of molasses. Boil, stirring fre- 
quently until the candy reaches the soft-ball stage; then flavor with 
a teaspoon of vanilla and turn into buttered pans, cutting it into 
squares with a greased knife as the candy begins to stiffen. 

Chocolate Fudge (No. 3) 

Put two cups of granulated sugar and two-thirds of a cup of milk 
in a saucepan and bring to the boil; add three tablespoons of grated, 
unsweetened chocolate, and stir until this is melted. After this cook 
for ten minutes, put in two large tablespoons of butter, cook ten 
minutes longer, flavor with two teaspoons of vanilla, take from the 
fire, and beat until the candy hardens and begins to granulate. Turn 
it out into buttered pans while the mixture is still soft enough to 
pour, and mark into squares with a knife. 

Maple Fudge 

Put together a cup and a half of maple sugar, crushed with a 
rolling pin, half a cup of granulated sugar, a cup of milk, and a 
tablespoon of butter. Boil until it hardens when a little of it is 
dropped in cold water (this will require from twenty to thirty min- 
utes). Take from the fire, and proceed as with chocolate fudge. 



128 UNPULLED CANDIES 



"Divinity Fudge" 

Bring to a boil one cup of maple sirup, two cups of granulated 
sugar, one cup of water, and one tablespoon of vinegar. Boil until 
a little of the candy hardens in cold water, flavor with a teaspoon of 
vanilla, and take from the fire. At the same time the ingredients 
for this are put on the stove there should be set to boil in another 
saucepan a cup of granulated sugar with a half cup of cold water, 
and this should be cooked, without stirring, until the sugar will spin 
a thread from the tip of skewer dipped into it. Take them from the 
fire, and beat it into the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs; add this 
to the first preparation when it has begun to cool a little. Beat the 
mixture hard. In a short time it will begin to stiffen; at this stage 
add two cups of chopped nut kernels. Pour into greased pans and 
cut into squares, triangles, strips or diamonds as you choose. 

Marbled Fudge 

Cook together a cup each of white and brown sugar, half a cup 
of milk, a small tablespoon of butter, and two heaping tablespoons of 
grated, unsweetened chocolate. After it begins to boil, stir constantly 
until it reaches the soft-ball stage, flavor with a teaspoon of vanilla, 
and take from the fire. At the same time this is boiling cook in 
another saucepan a cup each of white and brown sugar, half a cup 
of milk, and a small tablespoon of butter. V/hen this also reaches 
the soft-ball stage take from the fire. Pour the brown fudge into 
a shallow, greased pan, making a sheet about the thickness of a cara- 
mel, and when this has stood for a minute pour the white fudge in 
on top of the other. Leave them to get entirely cold before you take 
them out, although you may mark them into squares with a greased 
knife while they are still warm. 

Nut Fudge 

Make a fudge by any of the recipes already given, and just after 
it comes from the fire add nut kernels chopped coarsely. Walnuts, 
hickory nuts, and black walnuts are especially good in fudge. 

French Nut Nougat 

Blanch a half pound of almonds and an equal quantity of pistachio 
nuts, dry the nuts in a soft cloth, and brown lightly in an open oven. 
Melt two cups of granulated sugar in an enameled saucepan, stirring 
it when heated. After it bubbles and begins to brown stir in the hot 
almonds gently. Have ready a shallow pan thoroughly oiled or 
buttered and warmed; oil is preferable, as the salt in the butter some- 
times sticks. Pour in the nougat quickly and flatten it with a half 
lemon dipped in melted butter or oil. All this must be done swiftly 
or the nougat will harden before it is in shape. Mark in strips with 
a buttered or oiled knife while still warm. 

Honey Nut Nougat 

Prepare nuts as in the preceding recipe. To one and a half cups 
of granulated sugar put half a cup of strained honey and cook together 
until the mixture begins to brown. Proceed as with the French Nut 
Nougat. 



UNPULLED CANDIES 129 



Butternut or Black Walnut Candy 

Cover the bottom of a shallow pan, which you have buttered well, 
with the kernels of butternuts or black walnuts that have been 
chopped coarsely. Over them pour a candy made by boiling together 
one cup of fresh maple sugar, one-third of a cup of water, and a 
heaping teaspoon of butter to the soft-ball stage. Mark it into 
squares while it is still soft. 

Hickory Nut Candy (No. 1) 

Boil together one cup of light brown sugar, a quarter cup of water, 
and a half tablespoon of butter until a little hardens when dropped 
in cold water. Take from the fire, stir in the nuts, and after a few 
minutes' beating turn into buttered pans. 

Hickory Nut Candy (No. 2) 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of three eggs with two cups of 
powdered sugar and add a cup of hickory nut meats chopped very 
fine. Drop by the teaspoonful on buttered paper laid in a pan and 
bake until a delicate brown in a slow oven. Do not take from the 
paper on which they were cooked until perfectly cold. Pecan nuts 
may be used instead of hickory nuts. 

Mexican Kisses or Penotchie (No. 1) 

Cook together three cups of light brown sugar and a cup of milk 
to the soft-ball stage, add a teaspoon of butter, take from the fire, 
and stir in a teaspoon of vanilla and a cup of chopped kernels of 
English walnuts, pecans or hickory nuts. Turn out into buttered 
pans and mark into squares with a knife. 

Mexican Kisses or Penotchie (No. 2) 

Boil together two cups of light brown sugar, half a cup of cream 
or rich milk, and butter the size of an egg until it makes a soft ball 
when dropped into cold water. Add a teaspoon of vanilla just before 
removing from the fire, stir in one cup of chopped walnuts, and beat 
all together until the mixture begins to cream, but turn it into 
greased pans while it is still soft enough to pour. Cut it into squares 
with a knife while warm, 

Sea-Foam Chocolate Fudge 

Boil together a cup of light brown sugar, half a cup of water, and 
a third of a cup of grated, unsweetened chocolate until a little of 
it spins a thread from the tip of a skewer dipped into it. Have ready 
the white of an egg, whipped very stiff, and pour the candy mixture 
on this, beating all the while. When it begins to stiffen you can 
either pour the candy into greased pans and mark it into squares 
with a knife or drop it by the teaspoonful on waxed paper. 

Peanut Brittle (No. 2) 

Melt four cups of granulated sugar in a clean saucepan over a 
slow fire and cook it until it is a good brown, but not scorched. Have 
ready two cups of shelled and skinned peanuts. Stir them into the 
melted sugar and pour in a very thin sheet into buttered pans. 



130 UNPULLED CANDIES 



Sea-Foam Nut Fudge 

Cook together three cups of light brown sugar, one cup of cold 
water, and a tablespoon of vinegar, gradually bringing them to the 
boil. After the mixture is well heated do not stir it, but boil steadily 
until a little dropped into cold water makes a hard ball. Have 
ready the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs, and as soon as the sirup 
has stopped bubbling, after you take it from the fire, pour it on the 
eggs, beating all the time until it is cool enough to show signs of 
stiffening. Flavor with a teaspoon of vanilla and stir into it a cupful 
of chopped hickory nuts or English walnuts. Pour into a greased 
pan and proceed as with ordinary fudge or drop by the teaspoonful 
on waxed paper. 

Nut Bars 

Cook together two cups of granulated sugar with half a cup of 
water and a saltspoon of cream of tartar until it hardens between 
the fingers in cold water. Take from the fire before it reaches the 
brittle stage. Have ready shallow buttered pans strewn with chopped 
nut kernels, pour the sirup on these, and mark into bars with a but- 
tered knife. This will be better several days after making than at 
first. Hickory nuts, walnuts, and pecans may all be used in this, 
separately or mixed. 

Peanut Brittle (No. 1) 

Cook together a cup each of molasses and of brown sugar, two 
tablespoons of butter, and one tablespoon of vinegar until a little 
of the sirup is brittle if dropped in cold water. Have ready a cup 
of shelled peanuts from which all the inner skin has been removed, 
and after you take the candy from the fire stir into it the peanuts and 
a teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in a little cold water. Pour in 
thin sheets into greased pans and set aside to cool. 

Peanut Candy 

Boil together two and a half cups of granulated sugar and a half 
cup of water until it reaches the soft-ball stage. Do not stir. When 
it forms a ball between the fingers in cold water, add a tablespoon of 
butter and cook until the candy hardens in cold water. Add to it one 
cup of roasted, shelled, and skinned peanuts, turn the candy into a 
shallow buttered pan, and cut into bars before it is cold. 

Walnut Molasses Candy 

Boil four cups of molasses half an hour, add a quarter teaspoon of 
baking soda and cook until a little dropped in water becomes brittle. 
Stir in walnut kernels, cut in quarters, and turn into a buttered pan. 



UNPULLED CANDIES 131 



UNPULLED CANDIES: TAFFY, POP CORN, 
AND CANDY DROPS 

Butter TafiFy 

Cook together in an agate saucepan two cups of brown sugar and 
three large tablespoons of butter. If the butter is rather salt, wash 
the salt from it before you put it with the sugar. Cook together, 
without stiring, until a little of the candy, dropped into cold water, is 
brittle enough to break between the fingers. Turn into greased 
pans in a thin sheet and mark into squares with a knife before the 
candy cools. When cold, keep it wrapped in waxed paper. 

Lemon TafiFy 

Put a cup of brown sugar, a half cup of cold water, a tablespoon 
of vinegar, and a tablespoon of butter together in an agate saucepan 
and bring to a boil. Cook until the candy is brittle when dropped 
in cold water, take it from the fire, add to it the juice of a large 
lemon, and pour into a greased pan in a thin sheet. Set aside to 
cool. You may either mark this into shape with a knife or break 
it into irregular pieces after it is hard and crisp. 

Maple Sugar Taffy 

Put together three cups of crushed maple sugar, two cups of light 
brown sugar, and a cup and a half of water. Boil together until a 
little of it is hard in cold water, turn in a thin sheet into a buttered 
pan, and put aside to cool. 

Molasses Taffy (No. 1) 

Heat a cup of sugar, two tablespoons of water, and one tablespoon 
of butter, and v/hen it reaches the boil put in half a cup of molasses. 
Boil until the candy is brittle in cold water, and pour into buttered 
tins in as thin a sheet as possible. 

Molasses Taffy (No. 2) 

Boil a cup of brown sugar, four cups of molasses, and a half cup 
of butter until it is brittle when dropped in cold water. Pour in a 
thin sheet into a buttered tin and put aside to become cold. 

Molasses Nut Taffy 

Make taffy by either of the preceding recipes and just before taking 
the saucepan from the fire stir into the candy shelled and broken nut 
kernels of any sort, gauging the quantity by your preference. Should 
you wish a very heavy mixture of nuts, allow more kernels; if you 
prefer to have the nuts sparsely sprinkled through the taffy, put in 
only a few of them. . 

Molasses Pop Corn Taffy 

Cook three cups of molasses, two cups of sugar, and one cup of 
water together until it is brittle in water: stir into it two cups of 
freshly popped corn and pour out into well-buttered pans. You will 
have some difficulty in cutting this into accurate squares, and it is 
as well to wait unl^l the candy is cold and then break it into irregu- 
lar pieces. 



132 UNPULLED CANDIES 



Old Virginia Molasses Taffy 

Put a pint of New Orleans molasses over the fire in a saucepan 
and boil for twenty minutes. Stir in a quarter teaspoon of baking 
soda and boil fifteen minutes longer, or until a little, dropped into 
cold water, becomes brittle. This candy must be stirred constantly 
while it is cooking or it will scorch. When it reaches the brittle 
stage, add a teaspoon of vinegar and a tablespoon of butter and pour 
into well-buttered pans. Mark into shape with a buttered knife after 
the candy begins to form and before it is really hard. 

Sugar Taffy (No. 1) 

Stir together over the fire two heaping cups of granulated sugar 
and a cup of cold v/ater until the sugar is dissolved; add a saltspoon 
of cream of tartar dissolved in a tablespoon of cold water, and boil 
the candy until it hardens in cold water. Take it from the fire, flavor 
with a teaspoon of vanilla or an equal quantity of lemon juice, turn 
into a buttered pan in a thin sheet, and put aside to harden. 

Sugar Taffy (No. 2) 

Dissolve three cups of sugar in a cup of water in an agate sauce- 
pan over the fire and bring to the boil. When you ascertain by test- 
ing the candy in water that it can be made into a soft ball between 
the thumb and finger, add three tablespoons of butter and a teaspoon 
of lemon juice, and continue to boil until the candy is brittle when 
dropped into cold water. Flavor with two teaspoons of vanilla; turn 
into buttered pans, pouring the candy into a thin sheet, and set 
aside to cool. Do not stir this candy while cooking — only until the 
sugar is dissolved. 

Pop Corn Balls 

Boil together a cupful each of molasses and brown sugar, and a 
tablespoon of vinegar. When it has cooked for twenty minutes put 
in two tablespoons of butter. Then cook until the candy I'eaches the 
brittle stage, and stir in enough pop corn, freshly made, to form a 
mixture as stiff as can be stirred. When it is cool enough to handle, 
form it into balls with buttered hands and then roll the balls in 
popped corn until the outside of the balls is coated with all the corn 
that will adhere to them. Wrap each ball in waxed paper. 

Cream Peppermint Drops 

Put a half cup of cold water and two cups of granulated sugar into 
a clean saucepan and boil slowly, without stirring, until it spins a 
thread from the tip of a skewer dipped into it. Take from the stove, 
leave it untouched until it is about blood-warm, then stir steadily, 
always in one direction until the mixture begins to become creamy. 
Flavor to taste with essence of peppermint, adding this cautiously 
so as not to get the flavor too strong. Drop by the teaspoonful upon 
waxed paper, being careful not to put the drops so close together 
that they will run into each other. A candy dipper is even better 
for this purpose than a teaspoon. 

Cream Wintergreen Drops 

Make by the same process as the Cream Peppermint Drops, using 
Wintergreen instead of peppermint flavoring. 



UNPULLED CANDIES 133 

Lemon Drops 

Squeeze the juice of three large lemons into a bowl, mix with it 
granulated sugar until you have a thick mixture — as much sugar as 
the juice will take up. Put this into a saucepan, bring to a boil, and 
cook for five minutes after this point is reached. Have ready sheets 
of waxed paper and drop the lemon mixture on the paper by the 
coffeespoonful. If you have a small candy dipper, such as comes 
for this purpose, so much the better. Set the sheets with the candy 
drops on them aside to dry, and when dry remove the candies from 
the paper and put in a box. 

Peppermint Drops 

Put together in a saucepan four even tablespoons of granulated 
sugar, one tablespoon of water, and three drops of essence of pep- 
permint. Set the saucepan on the stove and stir the mixture for 
three minutes after it melts. Take from the fire and drop the candy 
on the waxed paper as directed in the preceding recipe. 

Wintergreen Drops 

Proceed as for peppermint drops, substituting three drops of 
essence of wintergreen for the peppermint. By the addition of a 
drop or two of vegetable coloring you may have these drops what- 
ever tint you choose. 



UNPULLED CANDIES: NUT AND FRUIT 
CANDIES AND MARSHMALLOWS 

Almond Squares 

Stir together in a saucepan two cups of granulated sugar and one 
cup of water until the sugar is dissolved; bring to a boil, and cook to 
the soft-ball stage. As the crystals of sugar gather on the sides 
of the saucepan wipe them off with a bit of wet sponge. Add a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice and cook until the sugar begins to brovm 
delicately. Have ready a quarter pound of almonds, shelled, blanched, 
and brovmed to a very pale brown; drop these into the boiling sirup 
and pour the candy at once into a buttered, shallow tin. Do not stir 
after the nuts go in or the candy may granulate. Use half a lemon 
to flatten the candy, pressing the cut side down upon the surface. 
If you do not wish the added lemon flavor, dip the lemon in melted 
butter before pressing it on the candy. Should you wish a stronger 
taste of almond, add five or six drops of bitter almond flavormg at 
the time you put in the lemon juice. Cut the candy mto squares with 
a buttered knife before it cools, and then leave it in the pan until 
entirely cold. 

Creamed Almonds 

Stir two cups of granulated sugar in a quarter of a cup of water 
until dissolved; put over the fire, and stir constantly while boiling. 
When it spins a thread drop in blanched almonds, one at a time, tak- 
ing them out at once and laying them on buttered paper or on but- 
tered plates to harden. 



134 UNPULLED CANDIES 



Candied Nuts 

Boil together a cup of sugar and a quarter of a cup of water, with- 
out stirring, until the point is reached where the candy is brittle 
when dropped in cold water. It should be just short of the stage 
where the sirup begins to change color. Keep a piece of soft cloth 
or a small sponge at hand, and wipe off the crystals of sugar that 
are thrown up on the sides of the saucepan from the boiling sirup. 
Have ready kernels of English walnuts, pecans, Brazil nuts, or 
blanched almonds, which should have been dried and heated in an open 
oven. Drop these into the sugar, one at a time, and lift out with a 
pair of candy tongs. Lay on waxed paper. Work fast, for the sugar 
hardens quickly. It is well to keep it hot by placing the saucepan 
containing it in an outer vessel of boiling water. If too stiff, add a 
few drops of hot water. 

Marshmallows 

Put four ounces of powdered gum arable into a teacup of cold 
water and leave it untouched for two hours; turn then into a double 
boiler, filling the outer vessel with cold water and bringing this 
slowly to a boil. Cook until the gum arable in the inner vessel is 
entirely dissolved, strain it through a piece of coarse muslin and 
return to the double boiler with a full cup of powdered sugar. Stir- 
ring continually, cook until the sugar and gum arable water are 
stiff and white, then remove from the stove and beat hard for a 
couple of minutes. Flavor to taste with vanilla, beat hard again, 
and turn the mixture into square tins which you have sprinkled 
thickly on the inside with cornstarch. When the candy is cold cut 
it into squares with a knife and roll the marshmallows in a mixture 
of three parts of cornstarch and one part of powdered sugar. Unless 
they are to be eaten the day they are made keep them in tin boxes. 
They dry out and harden very quickly. 

Fruit Bars 

• 

Boil four cups of granulated sugar and a cup of water in an agate 
saucepan, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Cook until the sugar 
begins to turn a delicate straw color; take it from the fire. Have 
ready greased pans, and a few minutes before the sugar is ready to 
be removed from the stove strew in the pans shredded figs, citron, 
cocoanut, and dates, seeded raisins, and, if you wish, candied lemon 
and orange peel. Pour the candy over this, taking pains to dis- 
tribute it evenly. If this is difficult to achieve, press the candy 
flat with a half lemon, either plain or dipped in butter. Before the 
candy hardens, cut it into bars with a buttered knife and leave it 
in the pan until entirely cold. 

Kisses 

Whip the whites of two eggs stiff, beat into them gradually two 
cups of powdered sugar and two tablespoons of cornstarch. Flavor 
to taste vdth vanilla, lemon or bitter almond. Drop by the teaspoon 
on buttered paper, having a care not to put them near enough together 
to run into one another, lay the paper on flat pans or tin sheets, and 
bake in a very slow oven. They should take ten to fifteen minutes to 
cook, and must be allowed to become completely cold on the paper. 



UNPULLED CANDIES 135 



Candy Pudding 

Moisten four cups of light brown sugar with two tablespoons of 
vinegar and a quarter cup of cold water; put over the fire and boil 
until it reaches the soft-ball stage; add a small tablespoon of butter, 
and cook five minutes longer. Have ready fruit and nuts — a half 
pound each of citron and figs, cut into strips; a half pound of raisins, 
stoned; a quarter pound of shelled almonds, blanched and cut in half; 
a quarter pound of English walnut kernels, broken into bits. Stir 
these into the boiling sugar, take from the fire, beat hard for two 
or three minutes, and then pour into a pudding cloth, wet in cold 
water. Roll the candy up in this, as you would a boiled pudding, 
twisting the ends of the cloth to hold the candy in shape, and let it 
get entirely cold before removing the cloth and cutting the candy 
into slices. 

Marshmallows (Chocolate) 

Follow the first stages given for making plain marshmallows up 
to the point where the strained gum arable is returned to the boiler. 
Add to the sugar put with it then two tablespoons of grated choco- 
late. Let this cook for half an hour, or until the chocolate is well 
blended and the mixture is stiff, then proceed as with plain marsh- 
mallows. 

Marshmallow Dainties 

Arrange your freshly made soft marshmallows in square pans, 
which you have buttered well, placing the marshmallows a little dis- 
tance from each other. Into the top of each press a candied cherry, 
pushing it down so that it will stay in place. Or, if you prefer, 
you may put there a square of citron or of pineapple, although the 
cherries are more ornamental than any other fniit. Make a fudge 
mixture, by cooking together two cups of granulated sugar, a half 
cup of milk, and a tablespoon of butter until they reach the brittle 
stage. Then pour the sirup around the marshmallows, using great 
care not to let the candy come up so high as to cover the cherry. Set 
aside to cool, and cut into squares, having a marshmallow with its 
cherry on top in the center of each square. These are far better 
if made the day they are to be eaten, as the marshmallows toughen 
very quickly. 

Orange or Lemon Peel Candied 

When peeling the fruit cut the rind into quarters, then into strips, 
lay them in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and bring this 
to a boil. Drain, and to the peel of six oranges or of twelve lemons 
allow two cups of granulated sugar and one cup of cold water, put 
over the fire in a saucepan and bring to a hard boil. At this stage 
lay in the peel and continue boiling, watching carefuly that the peel 
does not scorch. Do not stir, but lift the peel with a fork from time 
to time, so that it does not stick to the bottom of the vessel. When 
the sirup has boiled away almost entirely, remove the saucepan from 
the stove, stir into the contents a cup of granulated sugar, and stir 
this about with a fork until the mixture is almost cold. Separate 
the strips of peel with the fork and the fingers, and spread out on 
a plate to dry. Keep in a tin box until it is to be used. It dries out 
quickly. 



136 PULLED CANDIES 



Maple Marshmallow Dainties 

Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, but make the candy to sur- 
round the marshmallows by breaking a pound of maple sugar into 
small pieces, putting it over the fire with a cup of milk, adding a 
tablespoon of butter, and cooking until a little, dropped in cold water, 
becomes brittle. Pour this over and around the marshmallows as 
directed for Marshmallow Dainties. When you use the maple sugar 
you may put an almond or pecan kernel or other nut on top of each 
marshmallow instead of the cherry. 

Orange Straws 

For this confection it is well to select thick-skinned oranges. 
Remove the peel carefully, cutting it into long strips about a quarter 
of an inch in width. Lay the peel on the stove in a pan of boiling 
water, cook for five minutes, drain, cover with boiling water and 
boil for five minutes more, then pour off the water and once again 
cover with boiling water and cook five minutes longer. Drain thor- 
oughly, and leave it in the colander while you make a sirup by boiling 
together a cup of sugar and three tablespoons of water. As soon as 
it reaches the boil lay in the peel and cook for about twenty minutes, 
or until the sirup is taken up by the peel, lifting this from time to 
time with a fork to make sure it does not scorch. Take from the fire, 
and roll each strip — or straw — in granulated sugar, spread out on 
paper. Line a pan with paper, lay the straws on this; when the 
bottom of the pan is covered, set in a warm oven until the straws 
are dry. Do not let it become too hot, or the sugar will melt.- The 
work must be done quickly. A cup of sugar should serve to candy 
the peel of six medium sized oranges. 



PULLED CANDIES: MOLASSES, SUGAR 
AND CREAM CANDIES 

Molasses Candy (No. 1) 

Put a quart of good dark molasses — New Orleans preferred — over 
the fire with a cup of brown sugar and a half cup of vinegar. Cook 
until a little of it hardens when dropped in cold water, then stir in 
a tablespoon of butter and a teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in 
cold water. Pour the sirup into buttered platters or large, shallow 
tins. The more surface it covers the sooner it will cool, but if turned 
into a deep dish or pan it will be a long time before it reaches the 
stage where it can be pulled. As soon as it arrives at the temper- 
ature where it can be handled without actually blistering the fingers, 
begin to pull it, taking only a small quantity at a time. Use the finger 
tips, buttering these well to begin with and working as quickly as 
possible. The longer the candy is pulled the whiter it gets, and in 
practiced hands it may be brought to a glistening whiteness and then 
braided into long or short sticks. 

You will be aided in pulling your candy if you have secured to 
the door or window frame a strong hook over which you can throw 
your rope of candy and pull. There is great fun for a group of 



PULLED CANDIES 137 



young people if they pull in pairs, each holding one end of the candy 
rope, and in my childhood, when we had candy "stews" down in 
Virginia, no one ever thought of any other fashion of pulling the 
candy. But the hook is a modem improvement worth having, and 
saves labor and effort. Hold the candy firmly, even though with 
the tips of the fingers. If you let the candy rope slip through the 
hand it will make them sore, and in all probability raise blisters, as 
well. 

You may either leave the candy with only the molasses flavoring 
or you may put in lemon juice to taste. 

Molasses Candy (No. 2) 

Boil four cups of New Orleans molasses, stirring constantly to 
keep the molasses from boiling over the top of the kettle. A lars^e 
saucepan should be used or you will have an overflow. At the end 
of half an hour's steady boiling put in half a teaspoonful of bicar- 
bonate of soda dissolved in a little cold water, and keep up the boil- 
ing. Test it from time to time in cold water, and as soon as it is 
brittle take it from the fire and proceed as directed in the recipe for 
Molasses Candy (No. 1). 

Molasses Velvets 

Put into a large kettle three cups of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of boiling water, and three tablespoons of vinegar, and bring 
to a boil. When this point is touched stir in a half teaspoon of cream 
of tartar and boil until a little of the candy is brittle when dropped 
in cold water. You must stir continually during the cooking. When 
the candy has reached the soft-ball stage add a quarter teaspoon of 
bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little cold water, and half a cup of 
butter, then boil until the brittle period is attained. Move the kettle 
to the side of the stove, and as soon as the contents stop boiling add 
a teaspoon of vanilla or lemon extract or any other flavoring you 
wish, turn the candy out into buttered pans or dishes, and proceed 
as with ordinary molasses candy. When it has been pulled into sticks 
you may cut it into short lengths with a pair of old scissors. 

Lemon Cream Candy 

Put four cups of granulated sugar over the fire with one cup of 
cold water. Stir until dissolved, then let it cook steadily until it 
reaches the stage where a little hardens in cold water. Add the soda, 
take from the fire, flavor with a teaspoon of lemon juice, pour out 
into shallow buttered dishes or pans, and pull as soon as it is cool 
enough to handle. When pulled it will be brittle enough to break into 
pieces of any length desired. 

Sugar Candy 

Cook together, without stirring, three cups of granulated sugar 
and half a cup of vinegar and water mixed in equal parts until a little 
of it dropped from a spoon into cold water, becomes brittle. Dissolve 
a teaspoon of soda in hot water and add this and a tablespoon of but- 
ter to the candy, take it from the fire, pour into flat dishes and pull 
as you would molasses candy. 



138 PULLED CANDIES 



Vinegar Candy 

Put into a saucepan one and a half cups of vinegar and three cups 
of granulated sugar, the sugar stirred with the vinegar until entirely 
dissolved. Bring to a boil slowly, and cook until it spins a thread 
from the tip of a skewer. Turn out into shallow buttered pans or 
dishes, and pull as you would molasses candy. 

Orange Cream Candy 

Make by preceding recipe, but instead of using the lemon juice in 
flavoring stir in the grated rind and the juice of an orange just before 
removing the saucepan from the fire. 

Rose-Red Cream Candy 

Put into a saucepan two cups of granulated sugar and one cup of 
water in which have been dissolved a teaspoon of powdered gum 
arabic and half a teaspoon of cream of tartar. Set over the fire and 
stir until the sugar is melted. Boil until the sirup is a little past the 
soft-ball stage but not brittle when dropped into cold water, wiping 
off with a sponge from the sides of the saucepan the sugar crystals 
that rise from the boiling sirup. Just before taking the candy from 
the fire stir into it enough prepared vegetable pink to bring the mix- 
ture to the color you wish. You may flavor this with rose or with 
raspberry. Pour the candy out on a large platter or on a tin that 
has been well buttered, and as soon as it is cool enough to handle, pull 
until crisp. 

Virginia Crisps 

Cook together two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar and 
half a cup of butter until brittle in cold water. Pull quickly into 
very slim sticks and break or cut into small pieces. 

Variegated Cream Candy 

Put into a large saucepan or preserving kettle four cups of granu- 
lated sugar, one cup of water, one tablespoon each of butter and of 
vinegar, and half a cup of cream into which you have stirred a bit 
of soda the size of a pea. Boil until it reaches the brittle stage. 
Meanwhile cook together in a double boiler another half cup of cream 
into which you have stirred three tablespoons of grated and melted 
chocolate. Let these simmer together until well blended. When this 
stage is reached, dip out a cupful of the boiling candy and stir it into 
the cream and chocolate mixture. Leave this at the side of the stove, 
where it will keep warm without cooking, while you flavor with a 
tablespoon of vanilla the sirup still in the kettle; turn the plain sirup 
out into broad platters, or into pans, well buttered. On it, here and 
there, put large spoonfuls of the chocolate mixture. As soon as the 
candy is cold enough to handle, pull it with the tips of the fingers. 
It will be prettily marbled after you have finished. 

You may add still another color to this confection by putting with 
a portion of the sirup enough pink vegetable coloring, such as may 
be bought of any good grocer, to tint this a pale pink. In this case 
flavor the plain-colored sirup with lemon and the pink with vanilla, 
and dispose the latter on the plain-colored variety in such a way as to 
make a pretty combination with this and the chocolate. 



PULLED CANDIES 139 



Snow-White Cream Candy 

Prepare exactly as in the preceding recipe, omitting the coloring 
matter and flavoring the candy with lemon or vanilla. You can gain 
a pretty effect by braiding the pink and white strands when they have 
been pulled to the point where they have not quite reached crispness. 
The untinted candy should be very white. 

Vanilla Cream Candy 

Cook together four cups of granulated sugar, one quarter cup of 
vinegar, three quarters cup of water, two tablespoons of butter, with- 
out stirriag, until it is brittle when dropped into cold water. Take 
from the fire, add a tablespoon of vanilla, turn on a buttered shallow 
pan or a platter, and pull until white and crisp. Break into pieces 
of the length you wish. 

Virginia Barley Sugar 

Stir together two cups of granulated sugar and a half cup of water 
until the sugar is dissolved, wiping the sugar crystals from the side 
of the saucepan. Boil, without stirring, until the sample of sirup put 
into a cup of ice-cold water is brittle enough to snap as you touch it. 
Turn out of the saucepan on a large buttered platter and when cool 
enough to handle cut off small pieces with a buttered knife. Each 
piece should be about the size of an almond. These you can either 
pull into slender sticks or you may lay them on a buttered plate and 
roll them with the greased palm into thin sticks that you may braid 
or twist together. Break or cut into short lengths, working rapidly 
lest the sugar become too hard to manage before you have finished. 

You may diversify these sticks by dividing the sirup before it is 
quite cooked, putting different portions into different vessels and then 
coloring or flavoring them so as to have a variety. If you mean to 
braid the separate tints you can hardly do the work without help, 
for before the work is done the sugar will harden too much to be 
handled. A pretty assortment may be secured by using the pink and 
the green vegetable colorings and mixing these with the white or 
light yellow of the untinted sirup. Rose, peppermint, wintergreen, 
almond, vanilla, lemon, or orange may be used to flavor the candies. 



140 CANDIES— MISCELLANEOUS 

Quick Mints 

Ingredients — 1 cup sugar, Vs teaspoon cream of tartar, % cup boil- 
ing water, 3 drops oil of spearmint. 

Preparation — Put sugar into a smooth, clean saucepan, add boiling 
water, and stir until dissolved; add cream of tartar, and boil to 234° 
P., or about five minutes; cool slightly, add flavoring, beat until 
creamy, and drop from a teaspoon on an oiled slab or platter. If 
mixture thickens before all is used, add a few drops of boiling water. 
Oil or essence of wintergreen, lime, orange, etc., may be used instead 
of spearmint, and mixture may be colored lightly to correspond with 
flavoring. 

After-dinner Mints 

Ingredients — 2 cups sugar, Vs cup boiling water, V4. cup molasses, 
4 drops oil of spearmint. 

Preparation — Put sugar and molasses into a smooth, clean sauce- 
pan, add boiling water, heat gradually to the boiling point, and boil 
to 258° F., or until candy becomes brittle when tested in cold water; 
add flavoring, pour on an oiled slab or platter and when cool enough 
to handle pull until nearly white; pull into long strips about half 
an inch in diameter, and cut in small pieces with scissors; roll in 
powdered sugar, and keep in a covered jar for several days before 
using. 

Apricot Paste 

Follow recipe for mint paste, omitting spearmint and coloring, and 
adding one cup of stewed and strained dried apricots (without juice); 
roll in confectioners' sugar, or dip in melted fondant or chocolate. 

Mint Paste 

Ingredients — 1 box granulated gelatine, ^/i cup lemon juice, % cup 
cold water, grated rind 1 orange, 1 cup boiling water, 5 drops oil of 
spearmint, 2 cups sugar, green coloring. 

Preparation — Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes; dissolve in 
boiling water; add sugar, and stir until dissolved; add lemon juice, 
and boil twenty minutes; add rind, flavoring, and coloring; pour into 
a small pan and let stand for several hours; cut into cubes and roll 
in confectioners' sugar. Oil of wintergreen, cloves, or cinnamon may 
be used in place of spearmint, and other coloring may be used. 

Turkish Delight 

Ingredients — 1 box granulated gelatine, 2 cups sugar, % cup 
strained orange juice, 3 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 cup boiling water, 
grated rind 1 orange, ^ cup nut meats cut fine, V2 cup candied fruit 
cut fine. 

Preparation — Soak gelatine in orange juice five minutes; dissolve in 
boiling water, add sugar and lemon juice, and stir until sugar is dis- 
solved; boil twenty minutes; add rind, and, when nearly cold, add nuts 
and fruit and pour into a small pan; let stand several hours, cut in 
cubes, and roll in confectioners' sugar. Paste may be colored pink by 
adding red gelatine to the orange juice. 



CANDIES— MISCELLANEOUS 141 

Fruit Wafers 

Ingredients — V2 pound prunes, V2 pound dates, % pound figs, juice 

and grated rind V2 lemon, confectioners' sugar. 

Preparation — Soak prunes and figs in cold water over night, drain 
and wipe dry; cut pi"unes from stones, stone dates, and put all fruit 
through food chopper, using finest cutter; add lemon rind, juice, and 
sugar enough to knead to a firm paste; roll on a sugared board to 
one-fourth inch thickness, and cut in small rounds, square or dia- 
monds. Or form paste into small balls, and roll in cocoanut or 
chopped nut meats. One-half cup of finely chopped nut meats may 
be added to the paste. This is an excellent filling for stuffed dates. 

Spiced Raisins 

Ingredients — 2 cups large raisins seeded, 2 tablespoons water, % 
tablespoon butter, Vz teaspoon cinnamon, 2 tablespoons vinegar, % 
teaspoon mace, ^/i teaspoon clove. 

Preparation — Cook very slowly until raisins are plump and liquid 
has evaporated. Cool, and roll in granulated sugar. 

Stuffed Dates 

Wash one pound large dates, diy and remove stones; stuff with plain 
fondant, or fondant mixed with candied fruits or nuts; or stuff with 
a seeded raisin, or a piece of date, fig, or pineapple. Roll in confec- 
tioners' sugar. 

Stuffed Prunes 

Ingredients — 1 pound large prunes, V2 pound dried apricots, % cup 
confectioners' sugar. 

Preparation — Wash fruit, soak over night, drain and dry; remove 
stones from prunes with a knife; put apricots through food chopper, 
mix with sugar, and fill prunes; roll in confectioners' sugar. 

Marrons Glaces 

Ingredients — 2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon com sirup, 1% cups water, 
1 pint chestnuts. 

Preparation — Shell one pint of chestnuts and simmer in a sirup 
made of sugar and water until chestnuts are tender but not broken. 
Drain from sirup; cook the sirup with the corn sirup to 310° F., or 
until sirup begins to discolor. Remove saucepan from fire, place in 
a saucepan of hot water, put chestnuts on a dipping needle or long 
pin, and dip in sirup until thoroughly coated; place on an oiled platter. 

Nuts and Fruits Glace 

Ingredients — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, Vs teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Preparation — Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar to 310° P. 
Follow directions for dipping Marrons Glaces. Cherries, strawberries, 
orange sections, grapes, or mint and rose leaves may be dipped in 
the same way. 



142 DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Fandamentals of Drying 

There is a considerable number of fruits and vegetables which it is 
not advisable to attempt to dry, either because they undergo changes 
in drying which render them unpalatable, or because they deteriorate 
rapidly after drying. Some fruits and vegetables are better canned; 
also, some are so readily kept for long periods in storage, either In 
outdoor pits or in the ordinary cellar, that it would be a waste of 
labor to either can or dry them. 

Most failures in drying are due to the failure of the operator to 
understand the fundamental principles which must be kept clearly 
in mind, if the work is to be successful. Generally speaking, flavor 
and cooking quality are best preserved by rapid drying. However, to 
employ too high temperature with water-filled material is not advis- 
able, as it causes the juice to run, or in the case of starchy material, 
causes scorching and charring. The best temperature for drying Is, 
therefore, the highest which can be employed without, danger of 
injury in either of these ways. 

Since sun drying is only possible where climatic conditions are 
favorable, and since the majority of housewives have various climates 
to contend with, and since in addition to climatic objections, open 
air dryings has the disadvantage that the material is exposed to the 
visits of insects which deposit eggs, and to the dust borne on the air, 
eun drying is not to be recommended, except for exceptional cases. 

Artificial Drying 

Artificial drying has the advantage that the work is independent 
of weather conditions. However, it requires closer supervision in 
order that overheating may be avoided. But if the work is properly 
done, the products will retain their natural appearance and flavor 
to even a greater degree than is possible to secure in sun drying. 
There are various dehydrating contrivances on the market, both for 
home use and commercial purposes. 

In many cases the housewife will find it possible to do without 
special apparatus and to dry material in the oven of the cook stove 
or in the kerosene stove portable oven. Trays can be made of close 
mesh wire or heavy cardboard and placed on the oven trays. The 
products to be dried should be spread thinly and evenly. The door 
of the oven should be left open, so that the water vapor may pass out, 
and the fire should be so regulated that the material may not be 
scorched. On the other hand, the heat must be sufficient to do the 
drying in a satisfactory manner. The best plan is to dry only a small 
amount of material at a time. If a little material is dried every day, or 
whenever a surplus happens to be on hand, there will be quite an 
accumulation at the end of the season. 

A simple device can be easily constructed by any handy man or 
woman. Make a tray of handy size, using galvanized wire netting 
with about a one-fourth inch mesh, and nail this over a light wooden 
frame. Light laths will do for this purpose. Attach the tray by wires 
from the four corners to a hook in the ceiling, and suspend over the 
cook stove. A light pulley attached to the ceiling will furnish a con- 
venient means of raising the drier out of the way when the top of 
the stove must be used in cooking. It is necessary to keep off insects 
and to guard against dust and soot. It is therefore well to keep the 
drier completely covered with mosquito netting. Also, it is necessary 
to guard against strong or distinctive cooking odors which the drying^ 
material will take up. 



DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 143 

Apples, Pears, Quinces 

The fruit or vegetable intended for drying should be of good qual- 
ity and of the right stage of ripeness. It should in every case be 
carefully prepared and carefully handled during the process oi dry- 
ing. Hard fruits, such as apples, pears and quinces, may be pared 
and sliced, being sure to trim out all brown spots, core, etc. Darken- 
ing of these fruits can be prevented by dropping in a pall of salt 
water right after paring. Then, when ready to slice, dry on a clean 
towel, slice into the trays, have only a thin layer of the fruit In each 
tray, and dry immediatedly. These fruits are sufficiently dry when 
a handful of slices gripped firmly in the hand has an elastic, springy 
feel and separates promptly when the pressure is released, and leaves 
no visible moisture upon the hand. It should be removed when this 
condition is attained, and before the slices become crisp and hard. 

Peaches, Apricots, Plums 

These fruits must not be too ripe. Cut in halves, remove stones, 
and spread the halves in a single layer upon the tray with the cavity 
uppermost. The temperature should not be too high at first and may 
be gradually increased. Careful handling of these fruits is necessary. 
If jars are available for canning them, it would be better to use them. 
They may be canned without sugar, and sugar added when served. 

Cherries and Currants 

Cherries and currants make a very acceptable product when dried. 
The fruit should be carefully washed and drained, picked over, and 
then spread in a single layer on the trays. Do not pit the cherries, 
as this would cause the juices to run. Be sure the temperature is not 
too high, as cherries are easily injured by overheating. These are nice 
in fruit cakes. 

Berries 

Blackberries, raspberries, loganberries, dewberries, huckleberries, 
blueberries, gooseberries, etc., may be dried, but it is not advisable to 
dry strawberries. Care is necessary in handling berries. Use only 
the best sound fruit, fully ripe, not overripe. Be sure to pick over 
carefully. Spread in a single layer on the drying tray and do not 
have the temperature too high at the beginning. Increase gradually. 
The berries should be freshly picked in the early morning hours and 
not allowed to stand, but prepared immediately for drying. 

While it is possible to dry the above named berries, it is not always 
advisable, for there is such a wide range of usefulness for these berries 
in the way of jellies, jams and preserves. The dried product is usually 
so effectively denatured as to retain little of the color or flavor of 
the fresh fruit. 

Sweet Potatoes 

Since sweet potatoes do not keep as well in storage as ordinary 
potatoes, there are occasions when the housewife may wish to con- 
serve some for later use. Pare the potatoes and drop in a pail of 
salt water, then cut in slices or strips and pass them through the 
food chopper, using the coarse knife. Spread in a thin layer on the 
drying tray and dry until quite brittle. The sweet potatoes can also 
be dried in thin slices if wished. Fine for puddings. 



144 DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Cauliflower 

Pluck apart and remove diseased or discolored portions of the 
cauliflower. Wash in salt water and drain thoroughly, cut in small 
pieces, spread rather thinly on trays and dry, beginning with a medium 
temperature which may be increased as the drying progresses. Cauli- 
flower undergoes a considerable darkening during drying, but the 
original color is more or less perfectly regained when the dried mate- 
rial is subsequently soaked and cooked. 

Drying Greens 

Drying vegetables is not a means of utilizing vegetables which are 
not good enough to can or use fresh. The drying does not improve 
the quality of the material. It is impossible to make good dried 
products from vegetables which have been overheated and wilted 
and which have consequently begun to undergo destructive chemical 
changes. For first-class products the material must come fresh and 
crisp from the field, must be carefully picked over for all diseased 
or overripe and decaying portions, and must be treated throughout 
its preparation with scrupulous care and cleanliness. Use your judg- 
ment about cutting up the product in pieces of desired sizes, and 
spread in a thin layer in the tray. Turn occasionally. 

String Beans 

String beans for drying are best when not yet full grown, but suf- 
ficiently developed for table use. If small, they may be left whole, 
or if larger, they may be broken or cut into pieces, each piece con- 
taining no more than two beans. The string beans should first be 
washed and strings removed. Put in a cheesecloth bag and dip into 
vigorously boiling water for 5 minutes if very young, for 7 or 8 min- 
utes if older. To the boiling water, add 2 tablespoons baking soda to 
each gallon of water. This will preserve the bright green color of 
the beans. Drain thoroughly and spread no more than an inch deep 
on trays. Begin drying at a medium temperature, increasing the tem- 
perature gradually. Stir occasionally during the drying process. The 
drying is complete when no moisture can be extracted from freshly 
broken pieces. 

Drying Soup Mixtures 

Small lots of several dried vegetables, such as cabbage, carrots, 
turnips, onions, celery, parsley, peas, beans, etc., can be put together 
in proper proportion and will come in very handy for soups and stews 
during the winter. Dried soup vegetables find a ready market in 
cities where such material cannot be obtained fresh during the winter 
months. It is well to remember, however, that peas and beans absorb 
water much more slowly than greens, and must be cooked two or 
three times as long as greens. For this reason, it is best to keep 
them separate from the greens. 

Sweet Corn 

Properly dried sweet com is a delicious food, fully equal, if not 
superior, to canned com, and capable of use for just as wide a variety 
of purposes. Any of the varieties of sweet com having qualities 
desirable for table use will make a good dried product. It should 



DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 145 

be gathered when in the milk stage, before glazing and hardening 
have begun — just when it is in ideal condition for Immediate table 
use. Do not prepare more than you can dry at one time. This is 
imperative, as no product deteriorates more rapidly on standing than 
does corn. Husk the ears and trim, place in a wire basket or cheese- 
cloth bag and plunge into unsalted, rapidly boiling water for 8 or 10 
minutes. The cooking is completed when the milk is "set.". Younger 
com will require a longer period of cooking than the more mature 
ears. For this reason, it is well to divide them into separate lots 
and do the cooking separately. After cooking, allow the cobs to 
drain and cool sufficiently to be handled, then cut the com from the 
cobs with a sharp thin knife. Do not cut to near the cob and do not 
attempt to scrape out any of the particles of kernels left on the cob 
for drying purposes. The scrapings from the cobs may be used in 
other ways. Spread the corn kernels on the drying trays to a 
depth of about Vz inch and start the drying at medium temperature. 
Stir around thoroughly several times during the drying, to separate 
any adhering masses and to equalize the drying. Properly dried corn 
is hard and semi-transparent. 

Shell Beans, Lima Beans and Peas 

These should be gathered when in an ideal condition for immediate 
table use, that is, when the seeds have attained full size and before 
the pods have begun to turn yellow and dry up. Shell, put in cheese- 
cloth bags, boil in rapidly boiling water about 2 minutes, drain thor- 
oughly and spread about Vz inch thick on the drying trays. Begin the 
drying at a medium temperature and gradually increase. Stir occa- 
sionally while drying. Properly dried peas and beans should be 
uniformly dry throughout, showing no moisture near the center. 

Treatment of Products After Drying 

Before storing away dried material let get cold and be very sure 
that every particle of the material to be stored is thoroughly and 
uniformly dried. If any portions contain too much moisture, it would 
endanger the safety of the balance. After removing from the dry- 
ing tray, pile the material loosely on a clean sheet of paper in a dry 
place and allow it to remain there for several days, being careful, 
however, that no insects or dust can get at it. Stir up several times 
a day so that the entire mass may become uniform. When this stage 
has been obtained, it may be stored without danger of spoilage. If 
there is a suspicion that the material has been exposed to the visits 
of insects, or has absorbed dampness, it would be better measure to 
give it another quick drying before storing away. 

If fruits or vegetables are packed in tight containers immediately 
upon being dried thoroughly, they will remain just as brittle as they 
were when taken from the drier. If, however, they are not dried 
thoroughly they vnll "sweat" and soon mold. To prevent this, the 
materal should be examined within 24 or 36 hours after packing, and 
if it appears moist it must be dried further. 

Dried products may be stored in any convenient moisture-proof 
receptacle. Tin cans with tight covers are good. So are jars that 
may not be perfect enough to use for canning purposes. Even stout 
paper bags may be used if they are first treated to a coat of paraffin, 
and if they are thoroughly sealed. It is best to store away the dried 



146 



BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 



products in small lots, so that any possible damage or spoilage occur- 
ring through the deprecations of insects or moisture may be confined 
to only the particular small lot in that particular container. 

The container should be stored in a warm and absolutely dry place. 
The ordinary pantry or storeroom communicating with the kitchen is 
not well suited to the purpose, since the cooking evaporations from 
the cook stove are apt to keep the air quite humid. An airy attic near 
the chimney makes a better storage place. If the house has a furnace, 
open shelves may be constructed near it, in order that the material 
may be kept dry and warm by the heat of the furnace. If there is 
no furnace in the cellar, it is not advisable to attempt to store dried 
material in the cellar. 

It is well, once in a while, to open up a few packages and examine 
the contents, in case you have any suspicion as to how they may be 
keeping. If worms or bugs should get to work on your dried peas or 
beans, put them in a hot oven immediately, hot enough to kill the 
parasites, but not hot enough to scorch the material. 

To Cook Dried Vegetables or Fruits 

Since the process of dehydrating has simply removed the water 
from the dried product, all that is necessary to render it again fit for 
eating is to restore the proper proportion of water by soaking. 
Because the kind of vegetable or fruit varies so (old and tough or 
young and tender, large or small pieces), the housekeeper must use 
her best judgment about the length of time necessary for soaking 
and also about the preparation and cooking best suited for the prod- 
uct. Once soaked (in cold water), dried vegetables and fruits can be 
cooked in almost any of the ways in which fresh ones can be cooked. 



BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 

How to Cut Up a Beef 

When killing a beef it is very essential to properly quarter and cut 




the carcass, in order that the good cuts may be separated from the 



BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 147 

poor. Figure I illustrates the ordinary method of cutting up a beef, 
now used by butchers. The following explanation of the various parts 
gives the names of these cuts and the common uses to which they 
are put: 

The hind quarter is divided into nine cuts, as follows: No. 1, choice 
roasts, the porter and sirloin steaks; 2, rump, used for steaks, stews 
and corned beef; 3, aitch-bone, used for boiling pieces, stews and pot 
roasts; 4, bullock or round steak, for roasts or boiling pieces; 5, bot- 
tom round, for boiling and stewing; 6, shin or leg, for soups and 
hashes; 7, thick flank, for stews, corned beef and boiling pieces; 8, 
veiny piece, for corned or dried beef; 9, thin flank, for corned beef and 
boiling. 

The fore quarter is divided into nine parts, as follows: No. 10, 
forerib, prime roasts and fine steaks; 11, middle ribs, prime roasts; 




12, chuck ribs, the second quality of roasts and steaks; 13, brisket, 
for corned beef, soups, etc.; 14, shoulder piece, for soups, mince meat, 
and hashes; 15-16 neck, for soup, mince meat, hash and bologna sau- 
sage; 17, shin or shank, for soups and stews; 18, cheek, for mince 
meat and sausage. 

The Chicago retail meat dealers have a somewhat different method 
of cutting up the animal, as shown in Fig. II. The parts as numbered 
on the sketch are: 1, neck; 2, chuck; 3, prime rib; 4, porterhouse; 
5, sirloin; 6, rump; 7, round; 8, plate; 9, flank; 10, shin; 11, shank. 
They cut a larger part of the animal in the portions 3, 4 and 5, which 
represent the higher priced cuts. 

About Pork Making 

Hog killing and pork making on the farm have become almost lost 
arts in these days of mammoth packing establishments which handle 
such enormous numbers of swine at all seasons of the year. Yet the 
progressive farmer of today should not only provide his own fresh and 



148 BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 

cured pork for family use, but also should be able to supply at remun- 
erative prices such persons in his neighborhood as appreciate the 
excellence and general merit or economy of homemade pork product. 
"Home Pork Making" is a complete guide for the farmer in all that 
pertains to hog slaughtering, curing, preserving and storing pork 
product, from scalding vat to kitchen table and dining room, including 
numerous prize recipes. 

The general appearance of the most choice pork is from an animal, 
the carcass of which will not weigh less than 50 lbs. and not more 
than 120 lbs., according to "Market Assistant." The skin should 
present a semi-transparent appearance, approaching white in color; 
the fat on the back should not be less than half inch thick, white 
and firm, and the lean should be of a pale reddish color and juicy. 
The skin of the older animals is thicker and coarser, while the 
lean is of a darker color, but equally sweet, juicy and tender. By 
many, fresh pork is considered to be exceedingly unwholesome during 
the months of the year of high temperature. This, no doubt, to a 
great extent is true, the fatty, gross character of the flesh not being 
easily assimilated, when the animal economy of the human system 
requires less heating nourishment to the blood, and therefore requires 
less irritating food to the digestive organs. 

The carcass of pork being intended for immediate use while in its 
first state, is hung by the foot of its right hind leg, then cut down 
through the skin of the center of the back from the tail to the neck, 
following with the splitting down of the back bone through the line 
of the incision, dividing it into halves or sides. These are again 
divided, after taking off the head, into quarters. The hind quarter is 
first divided by taking off the leg of pork and when intended for 
coming, should be kept in pickle 10 or 12 days before use. The loin 
of pork, if not too fat, is good for roasting and also furnishes fine 
pork chops and delicate pieces for coming. The forequarter of pork 
if small, is often roasted whole, after having the blade bone removed; 
if large, it is divided across the ribs, using the thin part or brisket 
of pork for coming, after taking off the hocks and feet. 

Figure I, which shows the pork carcass lying on a block or table, 
furnishes a good diagram for cutting. First separate the head from 




Fig. I. — Pork Carcass on a Block 

the carcass, then split the carcass through the back bone with a 
chopper, then with a sharp knife loosen the leaf and kidney fat and 
tear it away toward the leg, the kidney, of course, being brought 
away with it. Each side is then divided into its fore and hind quar- 



BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 149 

ters by leaving two ribs on each of the latter. The next cut loosens 
the tenderioin from where it is connected with the ham, when it is 
torn out upwards toward the ribs or head. The hams are then 
removed, beginning at the tail side and cutting circularly to the flank, 
after sawing the small bone about half way and chopping or salving 
off the feet. Next cut off the brisket of pork, which is usually corned. 
The chine of pork, without the back fat, is much used for chops, 
steaks or roasting, while some prefer this part for sausage meat. I'he 
back fat, on the loin, is also taken off in the same manner, when the 
loin is prepared for either chops or roasting. 

Figure II represents the mode of cutting pork carcass for barrel- 
ing. The same mode of cutting is here adapted, by separating the 
head from the carcass, then splitting the carcass, cutting off the fresh 
hams and feet, tearing out the leaf and kidney fat, taking out the 
tenderloin — as previously shown. Then the head (10 and 3) is divided 
by cutting off the cheeks. Beginning from the corner of the mouth, 
following the line towards 9 (see also Fig. I, A B), and saw off the 
jawbone, which separates the cheeks from the plate; then crack the 
bone of the under jaw between the front teeth and the cheeks, held 
together to hang up by. Next take off the shoulder by cutting 
straight across the side, as shown in Fig. I (D); then trim off the 
spare ribs, by cutting under the breast-bone, and so follow the ribs 
as far as the chine-bone, when the knife is continued on directly to 
the end of the long bones in the back, which leaves the shoulder about 
one thickness, and the spare- ribs (not too spare), with meat enough 
left on them to make a roast. Then trim the shoulder round (see 2), 
and saw off the feet, which forms the shoulder similar to a ham. 
The brisket and flanks are next cut off, then the ribs (5) and loin 
pieces (4) are cut in suitable sizes, when all are ready to salt, except 
that the trimmings and some other pieces can be used for sausages. 
The leaf fat and pieces of fat are rendered into lard, and the pate» 
etc., is used for head cheese. 




How to Cut Pork for Barreling 



1. Leg, or fresh ham. 

2. Shoulder (after being trimmed). 

3. Chops or cheeks. 

4. Loin-pieces. 

5. Rib, or chine-pieces. 



150 BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 



6. 


Brisket. 


7. 


Flank. 


8. 


Tail-piece. 


9. 


Neck-piece. 


10. 


Pate or skull. 


11. 


Feet. 



The flesh of the hog, diseased when slaughtered, is exceedingly 
unwholesome, and is not fit to be used for any purpose. Certain 
diseases may be known by yellowish lumps or kernels distributed 
through the fat and lean, and the flesh having a heavy, dull appear- 
ance. 

By Way of Preparation 

The day before you butcher, sharpen the knives, prepare the table 
and set down the dipping barrel half of its depth into the ground, 
tilting it toward the table. Now fix a pulley directly above, which 
should be used when dipping, and also when hanging the pork to cool. 
If the weather is not very cold, butcher in the evening, so as to allow 
the pork to cool quickly, but in cold weather begin early in the morn- 
ing and have plenty of boiling water and everything else in readiness. 

Cleaning and Separating the Entrails 

As soon as the entrails are removed from the carcass, carry them 
into the house, lay on a table, and go to work swiftly, before they 
have a chance to get cold. Have ready several sharp little knives, 
plenty of clean cloths, and some twine. The table should be long 
and narrow and tipped up slightly at one end, and the feet at the 
other end placed in a large tub, to catch the drip. Better still, is a 
flat wooden flue, of the correct width and length, with a 6-inch strip 
nailed along each side. 

Carefully cut away all fat and throw into cold salt water, the leaf 
lard being put in a separate vessel. Put the heart, kidneys and liver 
in a separate vessel of salt water, being careful not to break the gall 
bag. If an ox, save the latter, as ox gall is good for many things. 
Clean the stomach and also put in salt water, and treat the casings 
the same. Waste can be fed to the chickens. If you should happen 
to cut into the intestines, quickly tie up with twine and clean away 
excrement. It is better for two people to go at this work, to finish 
before it gets cold. 

When Beef Is Killed 

When the weather gets cold, and after the beef is butchered, we let 
it hang for 2 or 3 days in a cool place, and then cut it up. We cut 
quite a number of nice lean pieces without any bone in them, and put 
them in brine for 2 or 3 weeks, then take them out and wipe dry, 
and put each one into a little cheesecloth sack, and hang over the 
cook stove to dry. This makes our dried beef. This is the way we 
hang them up: We take two pieces of rope about 2 feet long, and 
double them and fasten the ends to the ceiling about 5 feet apart, 
letting the loops hang down. Then we take a long, smooth stick, 
and fasten all the little cheesecloth sacks of beef on the stick, and 
put each end of the stick in the loops of rope. 

We use some of the beef to make several large crocks of mince 
meat, as it will keep all winter in a cool place. The rest of the beef 



BUTCHERLNG TIME RECIPES 151 

we com. Be most particular about the barrel — never use a barrel 
that has been used for other purposes, or if beef has ever soured in 
it. Get a new barrel (a good molasses barrel is best) and clean it 
well. 

Cut all the large bone out of the meat and then pack the beef in 
the barrel tightly. Cover with a hardwood board that will fit down 
in the barrel, put a clean, heavy stone on it, and it is ready for the 
pickling brine, which we make as follows: To 2 gallons water add 
3 pounds salt, 1 pound sugar, 1 ounce saltpeter, and 2 tablespoons 
baking soda. Make as many gallons as you need, adding the same 
ingredients to every 2 gallons water. Put in a boiler, boil, skim well, 
and pour boiling hot over the beef. Be sure the brine covers the 
beef well — ^yes, more than covers it — as it will soak in the beef some. 
If you should ever need to add more brine, do not put it on hot — that 
is only done the first time. 

To Pack Pork in Salt 

The pork should hang in a cool place over night. Be sure that all 
the animal heat is out of it. Cut the sides into strips crosswise. 
Cover the bottom of a perfectly clean barrel with clean, coarse salt, 
and then pack in the strips of pork closely, edgewise, with the rind 
next to the barrel. Then fill the crevices in between with salt, and 
cover the top of the layer with salt, and proceed in this way until 
the pork is all in, or the barrel is filled. Make a strong brine of salt 
and cold water, using so much salt that the water will not dissolve 
any more — it should be strong enough to float an egg. Boil and 
skim this brine and then pour it into the barrel over the pork, while 
boiling hot. Cover the pork with a round, hard piece of board, a little 
smaller than the barrel head, put a clean stone on it, heavy enough 
to keep it down under the brine, then cover the barrel and set away 
in a cool, dry place. If at any time the brine should froth or look 
red, 'it should be turned out, scalded and skimmed, and then poured 
over the meat again scalding hot. Never put cold brine on old pork. 
We have pickled our pork in this way for many years, and have never 
lost any. When wanted for use, freshen the pork by letting it stand 
in warm water on the back of the stove about half hour. 

To Pack Frozen Meat in Hay-Box 

Take a large, strong, tight, wooden dry goods box, line inside with 
several thicknesses of paper, pasting it in closely and overlapping the 
seams generously, then put a thick layer of hay or sawdust in the 
bottom of the box, and cover with paper. Freeze hams, spare ribs, 
shoulders or any pieces of fresh pork, beef, or poultry that you wish 
to keep fresh for future use, and be sure that the freezing is most 
thorough, so that each piece is frozen all the way through. Wrap 
each piece separately in several layers of clean, light brown paper, 
then pack a layer of these pieces in a box prepared as above, fill all 
the crevices between the pieces with fine hay, packing it in solidly, 
cover the layer of meat pieces with about 5 or 6 inches of hay, then 
pack in more meat as directed above, and so on until all the frozen 
meat is stored, or the box is full, being careful to have plenty of hay 
all around the sides, and on the top. Next put on a tight cover of 
wood, also lined with paper inside, and throw some thick covering over 
the box, such as an old comforter, blanket, fur robe, or a piece of 



152 BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 

heavy carpet. The box, of course, should stand in a cold and dry 
place. Frozen meat packed in this way will remain frozen and sweet 
for months, and will even withstand quite a long thaw. 

Canning Meat, Poultry and Sausages 

Cut the meat or poultry in pieces of convenient size, trim care- 
fully, and be sure they are sweet and clean. Boil until tender in 
enough water to cover, seasoning to taste, the same as for immediate 
use, and when all the meat is well done and tender, press a little at 
a time in hot glass fruit jars, then pour in a little of the hot gravy 
(which should first have been boiled down until it is almost ready to 
jelly when cold), until the gravy fills up all the vacant places around 
the meat, but not enough to cause the meat to float. Then press in 
another layer of meat and more gravy, and proceed in this way until 
the jar is filled up to within one inch of the top. Be very sure that 
there are no air spaces left in the cans. Then fill each can overflow- 
ing full with melted suet, and seal air tight, using new rubbers and 
observing all the usual canning precautions. Set the jars away in a 
permanent storage place, which should be cool, dark and dry, and do 
not move the cans after once setting away. The melted suet on top 
will harden, and moving the cans after the layer of suet has hardened 
is apt to break it. Sausages should be pricked and boiled in water 
until tender, and packed in jars the same as meat, with a layer of 
melted lard or suet on top. Everything wants to be boiling hot when 
canned, sealed air tight, and set away while hot. Great care must 
be taken to use only perfect, air-tight cans. This recipe for canning^ 
meat has been used successfully for many years. 

Keeping Smoked Meat 

If the meat can be kept away from flies, it will keep nicely in a 
cool, dry cellar, but if one fly can get at it, it must be otherwise pro- 
tected. A good and easy way is to wrap in paper and then in mus- 
lin sacks, and bury in a grain bin, by this method keeping a uniform 
temperature and excluding insects. If this cannot be done, it will 
be absolutely safe if wrapped in paper and put in muslin sacks, and 
the sacks completely coated with either ordinary lime whitewash or 
"yellow wash," and hung up so they do not touch. The directions for 
"yellow wash" are: 3 pounds barites, 4 pounds flour, % pound chrome 
yellow, 1/6 pound glue. Make the day before using. Heat 1% gal- 
lons water and add the flour, mixed to a smooth paste. Dissolve the 
chrome in 1 quart water and add it. Boil, stirring constantly, and 
adding barites slowly. Apply cold with a brush and stir often while 
using. 

Smoking In a Box 

Take a large, light box, place hooks inside the top to hang the meat 
on, and have a hole made on the side to fit a stovepipe. Then take 
an old discarded heater and fit the pipe to the box, with the stove 
outside the box. Have a lid or door on one side of the box, so you can 
look to the meat. Start a fire with a few dry cobs, fill partly with 
straw, and then with boughs of cedar. If kept up all day, the meat 
will be done by night. The meat should have been in brine for 2 or 3 
weeks, then hung up to dry a little before smoking. When smoked, let 
hang in box until ready to put down. Wrap the pieces in cloths, put 
in a barrel, and cover with oats. 



BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 153 

Smoking Meat 

The smokehouse should be large enough and have enough ventila- 
tion to prevent the meat becoming overheated. It is best to have the 
fire outside, with a length of stovepipe to conduct the smoke into the 
house. Hardwood, such as maple or green hickory, smothered with 
sawdust of the same, are the best for smoking meat, and corncobs 
the next best. Wood with resin, as spruce or pine, gives a bad flavor 
to the meat. There is a low, prickly, evergreen shrub, bearing green 
berries, that grows in some localities, and where this can be had it 
is nicer than anything else, giving the meat a delicious flavor. Meat 
to be smoked should be well washed, or scrubbed with a hand brush 
in tepid water, to prevent a crust of salt forming on the outside, or 
if very salt, soaked over night. It should hang and dry out a day 
before being put into the smokehouse, and then hung so no two pieces 
touch each other. The fire should be slow at first, to heat up the meat 
gradually, and meat should never be frozen when put in the smoke- 
house. In cold weather it is best to keep the fire going steadily until 
finished, or the meat will not smoke evenly, owing to the inside being 
too cold for the smoke to penetrate, after cooling. Thirty-six hours 
will smoke meat nicely, if the fire is kept going steadily, or in warm 
weather a fire built every other day for two weeks cures it nicely, 
keeping the ventilator screened and the house dark, to exclude flies, 

A Barrel Smoker 

Screw 3 or 4 hooks in the inside of the bottom of a good clean, close 
and large barrel, and turn it over an iron vessel in which a few live 
coals have been placed, with com cobs and hickory chips piled on 
top, to make a steady smoke. Hang the hams, shoulders or pieces on 
the hooks, but be careful not to crowd in too many, or the smoke 
cannot reach all parts. The smoking should be done slowly, evenly 
and steadily. A little ventilation is needed, or the fire will go out, 
but not enough to allow too much smoke to escape. 

Smoked Barrel for Bacon and Hams 

Put a few live coals in an iron kettle, cover with clean com cobs, 
turn a clean barrel over this kettle, and smoke 2 hours at a time for 
2 days. If smoked too long at a time, it would shrink the barrel. 
When thoroughly smoked, put a brine in the barrel made of 10 pounds 
salt, 8 ounces saltpeter and 2% quarts molasses, for every 100 lbs. 
meat. Add water enough to cover the meat. Pack the meat in this 
brine and weight down. The smoked barrel will impart the smoked 
flavor to the meat. 

To Dry Sugar Cure Meat 

For 400 pounds meat allow 10 pounds salt, 1% pounds each black 
pepper and brown sugar, and 4 ounces saltpeter. Mix well together 
and rub each piece of meat well with this mixture, using the hands, 
about 5 or 10 minutes. Do not pile up the pieces of meat, but lay 
them out on a board or table, skin side down, in a cool place, but 
not cold enough to freeze. Let them stay there 4 to 6 weeks, after 
which they will be ready to smoke. After smoking, wrap them in 
clean, sweet hay, then put them in muslin sacks and hang in a cool, 
dark place. 



154 BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 

Treating Hams After Smoking 

Have a boiler full of boiling water, dip the hams in, and let them 
remain 2 or 3 minutes, then remove, and cover them with a thick paste 
made of flour, water and cayenne pepper. The paste should be red 
with the pepper. Hang the covered hams in the sun until the paste 
covering is dry. Then put in stout paper sacks, tie closely, and hang 
in a dark and cool place. 

To Keep Meat without Smoking 

After the animal heat has gone out of the meat, pack the pieces 
away in dry salt 4 weeks, after which dip each piece in a very strong 
solution of boiling hot salt water, dry off and rub thoroughly with 
borax and black pepper. 

Dry Cured Pork 

For each 100 pounds pork use 5 pounds salt, 2 pounds sugar and 2 
ounces saltpeter. Mix well and divide into three parts. Rub the meat 
thoroughly with a third of the mixture at intervals of 3 days, pack- 
ing very closely in the barrel, and reversing the order of the pieces 
at each rubbing. If there is a good deal of meat, it is easier to have 
two barrels, putting the meat into one, as it is taken from the other, 
and pouring over the little liquid, if any forms. After the last rub- 
bing, let it lie for 10 days in the barrel, when it vdll be cured and 
ready for smoking. While curing, the meat must be kept in a cool 
and moist place, and unless it can be, it is best to use the brine 
method. 

Salt Cured Pork 

Heat salt in a baking pan in the oven, until it is thoroughly hot, 
then rub it in the fleshy side of the meat with a large flat spoon, as 
it will be too hot to apply with the hand. Rub all on that will stick 
to the meat — for large hams two applications will be necessary. This 
does not harden the lean meat, as brine does. Be sure to keep the 
salt hot. I have cured meat in this way in hot weather, and never 
lost any — the salt strikes in so quickly that it cannot spoil. 

The Barrel for Pickling or Curing 

It is most important that the barrel for pickling meat should be 
absolutely clean. First scald and scrape the barrel thoroughly, then 
set into the barrel a vessel containing a small lump of quicklime, 
pour a pail of boiling hot water over the lime, cover the barrel, and let 
the fumes of the slacking lime sweeten it. After this wash the barrel 
again, then put in a generous armful of new sweet hay, pour over 
plenty boiling water, cover closely, and leave until cold. After this, 
thoroughly rinse the barrel again with fresh water, and if any bad 
odor remains, the case is hopeless and a new barrel an unavoidable 
necessity. 

To Cure Hams 

For 100 pounds meat allow 7 pounds salt, 2% pounds brown sugar, 
2 ounces saltpeter, and sufficient water to cover the meat, when 
closely packed in a barrel. Boil the salt, sugar, saltpeter and water, 
skim and then add 1 ounce cayenne pepper and 2 ounces each ground 
clove and black pepper. Cool, and when cold pour over the meat, 
weight down, cover, and set away in a cool place. 



A/ 

BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 155 

Preserving Meat Joints 

For medium sized joints allow 2 tablespoons black pepper, 1 table- 
spoon red pepper, 3 tablespoons brown sugar, and 1 pint salt. Mix 
thoroughly and apply dry to each joint all that can be made to adhere. 
Take a square of muslin large enough to enclose the joint and lay it 
on the table. Then lay on the cloth two or three thicknesses of paper 
and sprinkle some of the mixture on it. Lay the joint on and thor- 
oughly rub the remainder of the mixture on, rubbing and stuffing it 
well into the bone end. Wrap the paper closely around the meat, then 
fold the cloth around, sew fast, tie, and hang up in a cool place. 

Dried Beef 

The round makes the best dried beef. For every 20 pounds beef, 
use 1 pint salt, 1 teaspoon saltpeter and i/4 pound sugar. Mix well 
together, divide into three parts, and rub well into the meat for three 
successive days. Keep the beef in a jar and turn it over frequently 
in the liquid, which will form of itself. After it has soaked in this 
about a week, hang it up to dry, and after that smoke, if liked. When 
dry, sprinkle with pepper, tie up in paper bags, and hang up in a cool, 
dry place. 

Corned Beef 

Use only the poorer parts for corning, such as brisket, flanks, cross- 
ribs, and plate, and cut into pieces 6 inches square. Fifty pounds 
meat will require 50 pounds salt. Sprinkle a layer of salt in the keg 
or barrel, put in a layer of meat, packing very closely, then a layer 
of salt, then more meat and salt, until all is used, leaving just enough 
salt for a good layer over the top. Let stand over night, then dis- 
solve 1 ounce baking soda, 2 pounds sugar, 2 ounces saltpeter in 2 
gallons tepid water, and after it is cold pour it over the meat. Two 
gallons should cover the 50 pounds meat, if packed right. If not, use 
the same proportions in making more. Weight with a board and 
stone, and let stand from 30 to 40 days before using. If kept over 
in hot weather, watch the brine, and if it gets "ropy," pour it off, 
wash the meat, and cover with a new brine. 

Beef Pickle I 

To 1^/^ pounds salt, add V2 pound sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, % teaspoon 
saltpeter and 1 gallon water. This pickle can also be used for sau- 
sage. Be sure to weight down the meat or sausage, so as to keep 
well under the pickle. 

Beef Pickle II 

For 100 pounds beef, use V2 peck salt, i/4 pound each saltpeter and 
soda, and 1 quart molasses, or 2 pounds brown sugar. Dissolve the 
saltpeter, soda and salt in a little warm water. The meat will be 
ready to use in 10 days. For spiced beef, add mace, cloves and allspice 
to the above pickle. 

Pickled Pig's Feet 

Soak the feet over night in cold water, remove the toes and scrape 
clean, boil until very tender, and salt before they are done. Pack in 
a stone jar or keg and cover with hot, spiced vinegar, using whole 
cloves, allspice and pepper. Nice eaten just so, or heated up in boil- 
ing water, or split, rolled in flour and fried a nice brown on both 
sides in hot fat. Will keep indefinitely. 



156 BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 

Brine for Pork 

For 100 pounds pork allow 10 pounds salt, 3 pounds brown sugar, 
2 ounces saltpeter, 1 ounce cayenne pepper, and 4% or 5 gallons 
water. Let boil 5 minutes, skim well, let get perfectly cold, and then 
pour over meat packed in large jars or barrels. Put in a weight 
to keep the meat under the brine, cover the jar and set away in a cool 
place. Meat kept in this way is never rancid and flies do not get at 
it. In the spring, draw off the brine, boil it again, skim well, let get 
cold, and pour over the meat again. 

Sweet Pickle for Pork 

For 100 pounds of side meat or hams allow 8 pounds clean, coarse 
salt, 2 pounds brown sugar, or 1 quart molasses, 3 ounces soda, 2 
ounces saltpeter and sufficient water to dissolve these ingredients. 
Put over fire and just before it boils, skim well, let it boil up once, 
skim again, and when perfectly cold pour it over the meat, packed in 
a jar or barrel. Weight down so that the meat will always be under 
the brine, cover, and set in a cool place. After 5 or 6 weeks lift the 
sides and hams out of this brine, let drain and smoke well with com 
cob, hickory or maple chips. We have used this recipe for years, and 
I am sure that anyone who will try it will be very well pleased with it. 

Pickle for Pork Sausage 

For every gallon sausage in cases allow 1 cup salt and 1 cup brown 
sugar, thoroughly mixed. Place layers of sausage in jars and sprinkle 
the mixture between each layer. Put a stone on top, and if a brine 
does not form in 3 days, make a little cold brine and pour it over. 

To Keep Roast Pork in Lard 

Take pieces of the side meat or any other part without bones, salt 
and pepper to taste, place in a roasting pan in a hot oven, and roast 
till well done, but do not scorch. When well done pack the pieces in 
a stone jar and fill all the spaces between, and cover the top, with 
fresh melted lard. Tie heavy paper and a cloth over the jar, and set 
away in a cool, dry place. This will keep until warm weather comes. 
Fresh sausage cakes can be kept in the same way. After seasoning 
with salt, pepper and a little sage, mould the sausage meat into little 
cakes about 1 inch thick, fry until well done, and pack in a stone jar 
with melted lard, the same as directed above for the roasted meat. 

To Keep Beefsteak — I 

Mix together equal parts of salt and sugar and half the amount of 
saltpeter. Place a layer of steak in a jar, sprinkle with this mixture, 
and so continue until the jar is full, then weight down with an inverted 
plate and heavy stone. This will form a brine of its own, and the meat 
will keep sweet for a long time. Cover well and store in a cool, dark 
place. 

To Keep Beefsteak— II 

Fry beefsteak as for the table, only be sure it is not the least bit 
rare, then pack it closely in jars and cover well with melted lard. 
Store in a cool place. 



BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 157 

Souse 

Use the head of a hog and any other small parts of the animal 
that are not too fat. Clean the head thoroughly and do not spare 
yourself any pains during this process, to make sure that everything 
is as clean as you can possibly make it. Soak in salt water for sev- 
eral hours, then scrape and clean again, and then soak once more 
in salt water for several hours, after which put in a kettle, cover 
with cold water, add salt, and boil slowly until the meat will separate 
from the bones, and all the gristle is perfectly soft. Next remove 
from the fire, drain, remove all the bones and hard gristle from the 
meat and from the liquor. Put a layer of meat and fat, distributed 
evenly, in a stone jar, sprinkle well with salt and pepper, and then 
pour over a generous allowance of hot, boiled cider vinegar. Then 
put in another layer of meat, seasoning, and boiled cider vinegar and 
so on until the meat is all used, or the jar is full to within 3 or 4 
inches of the top, topping off with salt, pepper and vinegar. Be care- 
ful to pack the meat firmly and closely together, and to have it cov- 
ered with the vinegar. Boil down liquor in which the meat was 
cooked until there is only a little of it left, being careful not to let 
it burn. Season well with salt and pepper (it should be considerably 
more salt than palatable), and when the meat in the jar is thor- 
oughly cold, pour this hot, boiled-down liquor over the meat, and 
when all has become cold, cover the jar well and store it in a cold 
place. When wanted for use, scrape away a little of the jelly at one 
side of the jar, cut out slices of the souse, and return the displaced 
jelly, spreading it over smoothly. The sliced souse can be fried in 
hot butter, but first drain off the liquid by allowing the souse to stand 
in the pan on the back of the stove a while. This will extract the 
vinegar, and after frying brown in butter, the souse will be deliciously 
crisp. Serve with hot, baked potatoes. 

Pickled Tongue I 

Use either beef or pork tongues. Scald, trim, scrape and boil until 
tender, in salted water. When cold, cut in %-inch slices and cover 
with cold vinegar. Boiled pig's feet are also very nice when pickled 
in vinegar. 

Pickled Tongue II 

For the brine allow 1 gallon water, 3 pounds salt, 4 ounces sugar, 
and 2 ounces saltpeter. Boil and cool, then put in the trimmed and 
cleaned tongues, and weight to keep them under brine. Will keep 
any length of time. When wanted to use, soak over night in cold 
water, boil until tender, skim, remove skin, slice, and serve with mus- 
tard. Or, if liked pickled, slice and cover with spiced vinegar. Will 
keep after being pickled. 

Smoked Pig Paunch 

Thoroughly clean a pig paunch or stomach, and boil until well done. 
Take as much lean pork as it will require to fill the stomach, chop 
fine, and cook until partly done, then mix with scant Vz teaspoon salt- 
peter, and season with salt, ground pepper and cloves, and any other 
preferred spices to taste. Pack into stomach securely, sew up and 
then return to the liquor in which the stomach was boiled, and let boil 
slowly 1 hour. Remove from fire and let remain in this liquid over 
night, then drain and smoke 6 days. Hang in a cool, dark, airy place. 
When wanted, cut in thin slices and serve without cooking. 



158 BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 

Pickled Tripe and Beef Tongue 

Clean the tripe thoroughly, cut in pieces, and sprinkle lightly with 
unslacked lime. Roll up each piece separately, with the furrowed 
side inside, place the rolls in a tub and pour over enough cold water 
to cover. Let stand about 10 or 15 minutes, then lift out the pieces, 
lay them on a board, scrape them well and rinse them clean in cold 
water, after which put them in a tub and cover with a weak brine, 
allowing them to remain there about 12 hours. After removing from 
this brine, scald them with boiling water, scrape them again lightly, 
and again wash in cold water, after which they will be ready for 
pickling. Make a hot spiced vinegar by adding 1 teaspoon each of 
allspice, cloves and cinnamon to 1 quart vinegar and V2 cup sugar. 
If liked very spicy, % teaspoon cayenne pepper or black pepper may 
be added. Beef tongue should be put in a brine or pickle, the same 
as that prepared for beef, and allowed to remain in there a week, 
after which drain, and either smoke or dry, or put in a prepared 
spiced vinegar, as directed above. 

To Try Out Lard or Suet 

Only clear, fat pieces of meat should be salted down in the pork 
barrel, and all the thin, streaky pieces of lean and fat should be put 
with the sausage meat. The soft fat should be cut in very small 
pieces and put in a separate kettle, with a little water, and set over 
the fire to try out. The leaf lard should be cut up fine and put in 
another kettle, with a little cold water, to try out. While the lard is 
trying out, stir it up often with a long handled spoon or skimmer, and 
be very careful that it does not bum or scorch. Stirring it often will 
make the lard try out more evenly. When the little pieces of lard 
have shrunk to very small dark brown scraps, strain lard through a 
fine wire sieve into a perfectly dry and clean tin pail. For the sake of 
convenience and to save burning my fingers, I hang the sieve through 
a piece of board cut out to fit the sieve. The board should be long 
enough to fit across the top of the pail, and project several inches on 
either side. This little board will not only save your temper, but will 
catch all the scraps that may fall from the top of the strainer, and that 
would otherwise fall into the pail of lard. The brown scraps should be 
turned into a cheese cloth bag and while still warm, squeezed between 
wooden squeezers to extract any of the lard that is still in them. These 
squeezers can be made of two flat pieces of board about 1% feet long 
and 5 or 6 inches wide, joined together at one end with little pieces of 
leather, and the other end whittled for handle. The lard squeezed out 
this way should be put in a separate pail. When cold, cover the pails 
well and store in a cool, dry place. Suet is tried out the same way. 
After the suet is tried out, pour it into a pan of ice cold water, and 
when hard, wipe it dry, wrap in white paper, and then put in a linen or 
close cloth bag and hang in a cool, dry place. Excellent for pie crust. 

Uses for Bladders 
Wash, scrape and clean thoroughly, soak in salt water, rinse, and 
then inflate and tie them. When making preserves, cut off pieces large 
enough to cover the mouths of the jars, pour boiling water over the 
bladder pieces, then stretch them tightly over the jars and tie securely. 
These are equal to self-sealing, air-tight cans. Bladders are also use- 
ful to keep sausage meat. Stuff full of the sausage meat, tie securely 
and smoke. 



BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 159 

Calf's or Hog's Head Cheese 

Put a large kettle over the fire, almost filled with water, and let 
heat to boiling point. You will need a large kettle as the calf's head 
should be almost entirely under water. After the butchering, when 
the animal heat is well out of the head, lift it by one ear and hold it 
in the kettle of boiling water, nose down. It will scald in a few min- 
utes, so that with a sharp knife you can easily scrape off the hair, 
leaving the head nice and white and clean. Wash thoroughly, then saw 
off the nose, just at the comers of the mouth, being careful not to saw 
through the tongue, or to saw on to the teeth. With a sharp, pointed 
knife, take the eyeballs out, first cutting the muscles around them, 
then cut off the ears and remove the ear drums, and then wash the 
head again thoroughly and rinse in cold water, after which put in a 
kettle or pail of cold water and let it soak over night. For this head 
cheese I also use the heart, liver and lungs or "lights," as the latter 
are called, also the legs, as far as the knee. Carefully trim and clean 
the heart, liver and lungs, and let these soak in cold water over night. 
The legs should be scalded, scraped cleaned and washed, and also put 
to soak in cold water over night. Next morning rinse all in clean cold 
water and then put over the fire in several kettles of cold water to cook, 
adding salt. Cook slowly until the meat drops from the bones, then 
drain, pick out all the bones, and chop or grind fine. The tongue 
should be removed whole, root end cut off and discarded, the rough 
skin or coating scraped off, and saved for a separate dainty, to be 
served cold, in slices. After chopping all the meat, add enough boiled- 
down liquid in which the meat was cooked, to make the meat very 
moist. The liquid will be jelly-like and will help to make the meat 
hold together, so that it can be easily sliced when cold. Add salt and 
pepper and a little sage to taste, and while hot turn into molds and set 
away to cool and harden. Cover with melted lard and store in a cold 
place. Hog's head cheese is prepared in the same manner, discarding 
most of the fat. If there seems to be too much fat on the liquid left 
after cooking the head and legs, skim the fat off and use the liquid un- 
derneath. Nice sliced, rolled in flour, and fried brown on both sides. 

Hog's Head Pudding 

Cut the meat from hog's head, discard the skin, and also use the 
heart, tongue and part of the liver. Wash all thoroughly and scald 
the tongues to remove the coating. Cook until tender, then grind or 
chop fine and season with salt and pepper, after which return to the 
liquor in which the meat was cooked, and when it begins to boil, 
thicken with buckwheat flour or commeal. Be sure to season just 
right, and have the pudding stiff enough, so it can be cut in slices when 
cold to fry, like mush. 

Canned Suet 

Trim and chop suet fine, add salt to taste, and 1 cup molasses for 
every cup suet. Can in air-tight jars. This is fine to put in cakes or 
puddings and no other shortening will be needed. 

Potted Beef, Ham, Tongue or Liver 

Boil either tongue or liver in salted water until very tender and put 
through the meat grinder. Boil down the liquid until there is just 
enough to moisten the meat nicely, being careful it is not too salty. 



160 BUTCHERING TIME RECIPES 

Mix well with the meat, heat, put in little jars, and pour melted suet, 
lard or butter over the top, when cold. Potted ham can be made in 
the same way. 

To 1 lb. boiled lean ham add V2 lb. ham fat, or if preferred, butter, 
a little cayenne pepper and white pepper, mix all together, pound until 
smooth, press firmly into small jars, cover with melted butter or lard, 
seal, and store in a cool place. 

Boil beef until it is tender and separate from the bones. Then mince 
the meat fine, season to taste, and pack down solidly in small close 
jars, topping off with melted suet. Cover and store in a cool place. 

Sausage Casings 

Casings can be made from the intestines of beef, hogs, or sheep, 
the sheep casings being used for small sausage, like wiener-wurst, and 
hog casings for link sausages, and beef for bologna sausage, ham sau- 
sage, and blood sausage. Empty as soon as possible, turn inside out 
and scrape and clean first the in and then the outside. The cleaning is 
easy where one has running water. Soak 24 hours in lime water or 
lye water, turn, scrape and rinse again, then salt dov^Ti and use when 
needed. When one cannot clean the casings, good substitutes can be 
made by stitching up tubes of new unbleached muslin, l^^ or 2 feet 
long, and 2 or 3 inches in diameter, when filled. When ready to hang 
away, rub the outside well with melted lard, to exclude all air, and 
sprinkle with pepper. 

Filling Sausage 

Sausage meat should be finely ground, as it keeps and holds together 
better. Beef alone, or pork alone can be used, but better two-thirds 
fat and lean pork, and one-third beef. Vary the seasoning by using 
pepper, onions, sage, nutmeg or cloves — the latter two are not very 
common. For filling the skins a piece of bone 2 or 3 inches long is 
most serviceable, but a piece of tin, shaped into a funnel, smallest end 
a trifle smaller than skins, will do very nicely. Insert this funnel into 
one end, hold in left hand, and proceed to fill, using the thumb to 
force the meat down. Prick the casings often vdth a hatpin, to let out 
any air. To have a change make some with cooked barley and some 
with potato (raw), finely chopped or ground. Use the proportion of 
Vi of barley or potatoes. This is fine. 

Bologna Sausage I 

Chop very fine 6 lbs. lean beef, 1 lb. salt pork, 3 lbs. lean fresh pork 
and 1 lb. beef suet. Mix well, then add 1 oz. ground white pepper, 1 
teaspoonful ground mace, 3 oz. salt, % teaspoonful cayenne pepper, 
and 1 large onion, chopped very fine. Mix well then fill into casings, or 
muslin bags. Make a strong brine that will float an egg, put the 
sausage in this, and let remain 2 weeks, turning and skimming every 
day. At the end of the first week, throw away old brine, and put the 
sausage in a new brine for the second week, then take out, drain and 
smoke for a week. After smoking, rub over the outside thoroughly 
with melted lard, and if you wish to keep the sausage for any length 
of time, sprinkle outside liberally with pepper, after rubbing with 
lard. Hang in a cool, dry and dark place. 



FIRELESS COOKERY— THE HAY BOX 



161 



Bologna Sausage — II 

Chop or grind very fine 50 lbs. beef, add 3 lbs. sugar, 8 oz. pepper, 
2V^ oz. saltpeter and 2% pts. salt. Mix the dry ingredients thor- 
oughly, then mix thoroughly with the meat and fill into casings or 
thin muslin bags about 4 inches wide and 12 inches long. Do not put 
these sausages into brine, but smoke them until thoroughly dry. 

Bologna Sausage — III 

Use trimmings of fat and lean portions of pork, taking care to have 
twice as much lean as fat. After trimming and cutting, weigh the 
pork and add % its weight of lean beef. Chop or grind fine and then 
season with 2% lbs. salt and 10 oz. ground pepper for each 100 lbs. 
ground meat. A little sage or thyme may also be added, if liked. Mix 
thoroughly and let stand in a cool place about 24 hours, after which 
fill into casings and fry down in hot lard. Put into crocks and cover 
with hot lard, and store in a cool place. 

Bologna Sausage — IV 

Add 1 lb. fat pork or fat bacon to each 10 lbs. lean beef, and grind 
fine. Season with 1 oz. black pepper, Vz oz. fine salt, and a little 
ground coriander seed to each 6 lbs. meat. Stuff in beef casings, mak- 
ing 1 foot long for the large casing, or 15 inches for the small ones, 
tying the small ones together and letting the large ones hang straight. 
Smoke 12 hours, then boil until they float on the water. Lay on clean 
hay in the sun until dry, and then hang away in a cool place. 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

1 teaspoon = 60 drops 

tablespoon 
cup 
% pint 
quart 
ounce 
pound 
ounce 
pound 
pound 
pound 
ounce 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
ounce 



3 tablespoons 

16 tablespoons 

1 cup 

2 pints 

Butter, 2 tablespoons solidly packed. 

Butter, 2 cups solidly packed 

Chocolate, 1 square 

Coffee, 4% cups 

Eggs, 9 in shells 

English Walnuts, chopped, 5 cups. . . . 

Flour, 4 tablespoons 

Flour, Pastry, 4 cups 

Flour, Bread, 4 cups 

Flour, Entire Wheat, SYs cups 

Flour, Graham, AVz cups 

Meat, 2 cups finely chopped 

Oatmeal, 2 % cups 

Oats, Rolled, 5 cups 

Rice, 1 7s cups 

Rye Meal, 4% cups 

Sugar, Brown, 2% cups 

Sugar, Confectioners, 3% cups 

Sugar, Granulated, 2 cups 

Sugar, Powdered, 2% cups 

Sugar, or Salt, 2 tablespoons 



162 TIME TABLE FOR COOKING 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING 

BAKING 

Beans, Boston Baked 8 hours 

Biscuits, Baking Powder (according to size) 12-15 minutes 

Raised (according to size) 12-20 minutes 

Bread (ten-cent loaf) 50 minutes 

Breads, Baking Powder Muffins (according to size) . . 18-30 minutes 

Com Bread (shallow pan) 15-20 minutes 

Gingerbread (shallow pan) 25 minutes 

Popovers (according to size 25-30 minutes 

Yeast Muffins (according to size) 20-30 minutes 

Cake, Fruit 1^/4-2 hours 

Layer 15-20 minutes 

Loaf (shallow pan) 30 minutes 

Sponge (deep pan) 40 minutes 

Cookies and Wafers 6-15 minutes 

Cup Custards 25 minutes 

Fish, whole, 4 pounds 1 hour 

Fillets, or whole, small 20-30 minutes 

Meats, Fillet of Beef (medium) 45-60 minutes 

Rump of Beef (medium) per pound 17 minutes 

Sirloin or Rib of Beef (medium) per pound 15 minutes 

Chicken, per pound 18 minutes 

Duck, Domestic 1 to 1^/4 hours 

Duck, Wild 15-20 minutes 

Goose, Domestic, per pound 20 minutes 

Leg of Lamb, per pound 18 minutes 

Pork Chops 30 minutes 

Loin of Pork, per pound 22 minutes 

Turkey, per pound 20 minutes 

Loin of Veal, per pound 22 minutes 

Pies 35-45 minutes 

Rice or Tapioca Pudding, Cooked 45 minutes 

Rice or Tapioca Pudding, Uncooked 2i/^-3^ hours 

BOILING 

Cereals 

Com Meal 2 hours 

Hominy 2-3 hours 

Macaroni . . . . ; 20-30 minutes 

Oatmeal 4 hours 

Rice 20-30 minutes 

Rolled Oats V2 hour 

Spaghetti 20 minutes 

Granulated or Rolled Wheat % hour 

Eggs 

Soft-cooked ...» 3-5 minutes 

Hard-cooked 20 minutes 

Fish 

Bass, per pound 12 minutes 

Bluefish, per pound 12 minutes 

Cod, per pound 6 minutes 

Halibut, per pound 12 minutes 



TIME TABLE FOR COOKING 163 

Lobster, whole 20 minutes 

Salmon, per pound 12 minutes 

Small fish 6-10 minutes 

Meats 

Corned Beef 3-4 hours 

Fresh Beef 3 hours 

Fowl, per pound 30 minutes 

Ham, per pound 25 minutes 

Mutton (leg), per pound 25 minutes 

Corned Tongue SV2 hours 

Fresh Tongue 2V^ hours 

Vegetables 

Artichokes 30-45 minutes 

Asparagus 20-30 minutes 

Dried Beans 3-4 hours 

Lima and other Shell Beans 1-1^/4 hours 

String Beans 1-2 hours 

Beets, old 2-4 hours 

Beets, young 45 minutes 

Brussels Sprouts 20 minutes 

Cabbage 20-30 minutes 

Cauliflower 25 minutes 

Green Corn 10 minutes 

Onions 1-1 % hours 

Oyster Plant (whole) 45 minutes 

Parsnips 45-60 minutes 

Peas, Fresh 20-60 minutes 

Peas, Dried 3 hours 

Potatoes, White 20-30 minutes 

Potatoes, Sweet 20-25 minutes 

Spinach 25-30 minutes 

Tomatoes (stewed) 20-30 minutes 

Turnips, Yellow 1 %-2 hours 

Turnips, White 1-1% hours 

BROILING 

Bacon and Ham, sliced thin 4 minutes 

Chicken, Spring 20 minutes 

Chops, Lamb or Mutton • 6-10 minutes 

Fish, slices, Cod, Halibut, Salmon, Swordfish. 12-15 minutes 

Fish, whole small. Smelt, Trout 8-10 minutes 

Fish, whole split, Bluefish, Scrod, Shad, Whitefish. . 18-22 minutes 

Oysters 8 minutes 

Steak, 1 inch thick (medium) 10-12 minutes 

Squab 6 minutes 

Tripe and Liver 3-4 minutes 

FRYING 

Chops or Cutlets, Breaded 5-8 minutes 

Croquettes and Fishballs 4 minutes 

Doughnuts, Drop Cakes, Fritters, Muffins 3-5 minutes 

Fish, rolled fillets and slices 5-7 minutes 

Fish, whole small. Smelt, Trout, Whitebait 2-7 minutes 

Potatoes, Straws, Chips 3-4 minutes 

Potatoes, French Fried 6-8 minutes 



164 TEMPERATURE TABLES 

TEMPERATURE TABLE Fahrenheit 

Freezing point 32° 

Lukewarm Water or Milk, not over 98° 

Albumen begins to coagulate 134° 

Milk, Pasteurized, keep for V2 hour at 145° 

Simmering point 185° 

Boiling point, Water (sea level) 212° 

Boiling point, Milk (sea level) 214° 

Milk, scalded in double boiler 196° 

Baking, Apples 300° 

Baking, Bananas • 400° 

Baking, Biscuit (yeast) 425° 

Baking, Loaf Bread • 400° 

Baking, Muffins 380° 

Baking, Popovers 450° 

Baking, Cake: Cookies 400° 

Baking, Cake : Gingerbread 375° 

Baking, Cake: Fruit and Pound 300° 

Baking, Cake: Layer 380° 

Baking, Cake: Plain (shallow pan) 375° 

Baking, Cake: Sponge (shallow pan) 350° 

Baking, Meats, Beef and Mutton, for 15 minutes 450° 

then reduce to 350° 

Baking, Meats, Chicken and Turkey, for V2 hour 400° 

then reduce to 300° 

Baking, Meats, Goose and Lamb, for V2 hour 400° 

then reduce to 300° 

Baking, Meats, Pork and Veal, for V2 hour 350° 

then reduce to 260° 

Baking, Pastry: Tart or Patty Shells 450° 

then reduce to 350° 

Baking, Potatoes 450° 

'Frying: Breaded Chops, Oysters 380° 

'Frying: Croquettes, Fishballs 390° 

•Frying: Doughnuts, Fritters • 360°-370° 

'Frying: Potatoes, French Fried 380° 

'Frying: Potato Chips or Straws 400° 

Fruit Jelly 222° 

Sugar and Water Sirup, large thread 217° 

Sugar and Water Sirup, feather 232° 

Sugar and Water Sirup, soft ball 240° 

Sugar and Water Sirup, hard ball 250° 

Sugar and Water Sirup, for glaced fruits and nuts 310° 

Sugar and Water Sirup, for spun sugar 300° 

Sugar and Water Sirup, caramel 350° 

A very hot oven 450°-550° 

A hot oven 400°-450° 

A moderate oven 350°-400° 

A slow oven 250°-350° 

'To test fat without a thermometer, drop a bit of white bread into 
hot fat; it should brown in 

60 seconds for uncooked mixtures (Doughnuts, Fritters, etc.) 
40 seconds for cooked mixtures (Croquettes, Fishballs, etc.) 
20 seconds for Chops, French Fried Potatoes, etc. 



INDEX 



165 



Page 

After-dinner CoflFee 5 

Almonds, Salted 48 

Anchovy Sauce 35 

Appetizers and Relishes — 

Asheville Canapes 1 

Cantaloupe Cocktail 2 

Celery Relish 2 

Cheese and Apple Rings. . . 2 

Club Canapes 1 

Cocktail Sauce 1 

Crab Meat Canapes 1 

Cucumber Pickles 3 

Fruit Cocktail 2 

Gloucester Canapes 1 

Mock Crab Canapes 1 

Pepper Hash 3 

Piccalilli 2 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. 3 

Spanish Cheese 2 

Table Sauce 3 

Tomato Ketchup 3 

Tuna Canapes 1 

Winter Chili Sauce 2 

Apple and Cranberry Short- 
cake 72 

Apple Cake, Dutch 87 

Apple Cake, Ginger 82 

Apple, Cheese and, Rings. ... 2 

Apple Filling 85 

Apple Fritters 54 

Apple Pudding, Steamed .... 87 

Apple Roulettes 87 

Apple Sauce Cake 79 

Apples, Baked with Dates... 105 

Apricot Paste 140 

Asheville Canapes 1 

Asparagus Soup 6 

Bacon and Chicken Livers. . . 25 
Bacon and Lamb's Liver, 

Fried 25 

Bacon, Breakfast 24 

Bacon, Sandwich Rolls 69 

Baked Bean Soup 6 

Baked Bean and Lettuce 

Sandwiches 73 

Baked Bean Salad 58 

Baked Beans 28 

Baked Indian Pudding 88 

Baked Pears 107 

Baked Rhubarb and Bananas. 108 

Baked Rice Custard 90 

Baked Rice Pudding 89 



Page 

Baking defined VIII 

Baking Powder 67 

Baking Powder Biscuit 68 

Banana and Apple Salad .... 59 

Banana and Grape Juice Jelly 90 

Banana and Peanut Salad ... 59 

Banana Fritters 54 

Banana Royal 90 

Banana Sauce 35 

Banana Shortcake 73 

Banana Toast 87 

Banana Whip 90 

Bananas, Baked 105 

Bananas with Figs and Nuts. 106 

Bar-le-Duc Currants, Mock . . 106 

Barley Bread 65 

Beans, Black, Thick Puree of. 28 

Beans, Black, Puree of 6 

Beans, Red Kidney, Puree of 6 

Beaten Biscuit, Maryland .... 72 

Bechamel Sauce 35 

Beef, American Chop Suey. . 20 

Beef and Bacon Cakes 21 

Beef, Broiled Chopped 20 

Beef, Broiled Flank Steak.. 20 

Beef, Casserole of 20 

Beef, Corned 18 

Beef, Corned, Hash 27 

Beef, Corned, Scalloped 27 

Beef, Creamed Dried, with 

Cheese 21 

Beef , Hamburg Meat Cakes . . 20 

Beef, Loaf 21 

Beef, Pot Roast 19 

Beef, Pressed 18 

Beef, Roast 19 

Beef, Savory 26 

Beef. Shin of, with Creole 

Sauce 19 

Beef Steak, Country Style.. 20 

Beef Stew 12 

Beef, Stuffed Shin 19 

Bellevue Salad 61 

Beverages — 

Cafe au Lait 5 

Chocolate 5 

Cocoa 5 

Coffee, After-dinner 5 

Coffee, Egg, and Milk 4 

Coffee, Filtered 5 

Ginger Ale Punch 4 

Ginger Punch 4 

Grape Eggnog 4 



166 



INDEX 



Page 

Grape Juice 4 

Mint Julep (Ginger Ale) . . 4 

Mint Lemonade 4 

Tea 5 

Tea, Iced 5 

Biscuit, Baking Powder 68 

Biscuit, Beaten, Maryland... 72 

Biscuit, Entire Wheat 70 

Biscuit, Fruit Tea 70 

Biscuit, Graham 70 

Biscuit, Quick Drop 70 

Blackberry Mold 90 

Blackberry Pudding 87 

Black Butter 35 

Blancmange, Chocolate 91 

Blancmange, Sea Moss 93 

Blueberry Muffins 67 

Blueberry Pie 100 

Blueberry Pudding 87 

Boiled Eggs 43 

Boiled Icing 84 

Boiling Defined VIII 

Bonbon Centers 109 

Bouillon Tomato 9 

Braising defined VIII 

Bran Bread (Baking Powder) 66 

Bran Bread (Yeast) 62 

Bran Drop Cookies 82 

Bran Muffins 68 

Bread, Baking Powder — 

Barley 65 

Bran 66 

Brown, Bread Crumb 66 

Com 67 

Com Cake, Custard 67 

Corn Cake, Rhode Island. . 68 

Corn, Country 67 

Dark Nut 66 

Date 66 

Indian Date, Steamed 66 

Molasses Corn 69 

Quick Raisin 66 

Bread, Yeast — 

Bran 62 

Buns 64 

Crescents 63 

Date 62 

Entire Wheat 62 

Fried 63 

Graham and Corn 63 

Irish 62 

Oatmeal 63 

Roulettes 65 



Page 

Rye 63 

Shredded Wheat 63 

White 62 

Bread Crumb Brown Bread. . 66 

Bread Omelet 44 

Bread Sauce 36 

Bread, Stale to freshen 76 

Bread Stuffing 38 

Breakfast Puffs 72 

Brewis 75 

Broiling defined VIII 

Brown Betty 87 

Brown Bread, Bread Crumb. . 66 

Brown Bread, Toast 75 

Brown Sauce 35 

Brown Sugar Sirup 78 

Buns 64 

Buttered Crumbs 76 

Buttermilk Muffins 69 

Cabbage and Beet Salad .... 58 

Cabbage and Cranbeiry 59 

Cabbage Baked 29 

Cabbage Cooked in Milk 29 

Cafe au Lait 5 

Cake- 
Apple Sauce 79 

Canada War 79 

Charlotte Russe 81 

Chocolate Marshmallow 

Roll 82 

Cream Pie 81 

Date 79 

Fudge 80 

Ginger Apple 82 

Gingerbread, with Egg .... 82 

Gingerbread, without Egg. 82 

Gingerbread, Sour Milk... 82 

Ginger Gems 81 

Jelly Roll 81 

Old-Fashioned Pork 80 

One-Egg 79 

Orange 80 

Petit Due 79 

Plain 80 

Spice 80 

Sponge 81 

Velvet Sponge 81 

White 81 

Cambridge Muffins 68 

Canada War Cake 79 

Canapes, Asheville 1 

Canapes, Club . . -. 1 



INDEX 



167 



Page 

Canapes, Crab Meat 

Canapes, Gloucester 

Canapes, Mock Crab 

Canapes, Tuna 

Candied Grape Fruit Peel... 10 

Candies — 

Apricot Paste 140 

Bonbon Centers 109 

Chocolate Bonbons 109 

Fondant Bonbons 109 

Fondant, Coffee 109 

Fondant, Mint 109 

Fondant, Plain 109 

Fondant, Quick 109 

Fruit Wafers 141 

Marrons Glaces 141 

Mint Paste 140 

Mints, After-dinner 140 

Mints, Quick 140 

Nuts and Fruits Glace. . . . 141 

Spiced Raisins 141 

Stuffed Dates 141 

Stuffed Prunes 141 

Turkish Delight 140 

Candies with Cooked Fon- 
dant: Chocolates, Nuts, 
Fruits — 

Chocolate Butter Creams. . Ill 

Chocolate Cocoanut Creams 110 

Chocolate Creams (No. 1). 110 

Chocolate Creams (No. 2). 110 

Chocolate Fruit Creams. . . Ill 

Chocolate Nut Balls Ill 

Chocolate Nut Creams.... Ill 

Cocoanut Cream Balls Ill 

Creamed Almonds 112 

Creamed Figs Ill 

Creamed Dates 112 

Creamed English Walnuts. 112 

Crystallized Fruits 112 

Fruit Rolls 112 

Spiced Squares 112 

Tutti-Frutti Squares 112 

Variegated Tutti-Frutti ... 113 

Candies with Cooked Fon- 
dant: Miscellaneous 
Sweetmeats — 

Candied Rose Leaves 113 

Candied Violets 113 

Chocolate Chestnuts 114 

Chocolate Mints 113 

Chocolate Wintergreens . . . 114 

Cocoanut Strips 114 



Page 
Creamed Strawberries . . . 114 

Macaroon Chocolates 114 

Maple Fondant 115 

Maple Fondant Bonbons. . . 115 

Maple-Nut Squares 115 

Maple Surprise Bonbons. . .116 
Nut and Fruit Bonbons... 115 

Nut Rolls 115 

Surprise Bonbons 116 

Bonbons, Confections and 
Dipped Candies — 

Almonds, Creamed 116 

Fig Paste 116 

Fruit and Chocolate Con- 
fections 116 

Fruit Confections 117 

Fruit (Candied) Dipped or 

Glazed 117 

Fruit (Fresh) Dipped or 

Glazed 117 

Fruit and Nut Confections 116 
Nuts, Dipped or Glazed... 118 

Oranges, Candied 117 

Peach Leather 118 

Quince Leather 119 

Strawberry Sweetmeats . . 118 

Stuffed Prunes 119 

Stuffed Raisins 118 

Homemade Cough Candies — 

Cough Candy (No. 1) 119 

Cough Candy (No. 2) 119 

Cough Drops 119 

Hoarhound Candy 120 

Hoarhound Drops 120 

Irish Moss Cough Candy.. 120 

Licorice Cough Candy 120 

Unpulled Candies: Butter- 
scotch and Caramels — 

Butterscotch (No. 1) 121 

Butterscotch (No. 2) 121 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 1) 121 
Chocolate Caramels (No. 2) 121 
Chocolate Caramels (No. 3) 121 
Chocolate Cream Caramels 122 

Cocoanut Caramels 122 

Coffee Caramels 122 

Maple Caramels (No. 1) . . . 122 
Maple Caramels (No. 2) . • • 122 

Maple-Nut Caramels 123 

Nut Caramels 123 

Opera Caramels 123 

Pineapple Caramels 123 

Vanilla Caramels (No. 1) . . 123 



168 



INDEX 



Page 

Vanilla Caramels (No. 2) . . 123 

Vanilla-Nut Caramels .... 124 
Unpulled Candies: Cocoanut, 
Cream and Maple Can- 
dies — 

Cocoanut Balls 124 

Cocoanut Bars 124 

Cocoanut Cream Candy .... 125 

Cocoanut Drops 126 

Cocoanut and Molasses 

Candy 124 

Cocoanut Taffy 124 

Cream Candy (No. 1) 125 

Cream Candy (No. 2) 125 

Cream Candy (No. 3) 125 

Creamed Pop Com 125 

Maple Balls 126 

Maple Creams (No. 1) 126 

Maple Creams (No. 2) 126 

Maple Drops 127 

Maple-Nut Candy (No. 1). 126 
Maple-Nut Candy (No. 2). 126 
Maple-Nut Candy (No. 3). 126 
Unpulled Candies : Fudges 
and Simple Nut Can- 
dies — 
Butternut or Black Wal- 
nut Candy 129 

Chocolate Fudge (No. 1).. 127 

Chocolate Fudge (No. 2).. 127 

Chocolate Fudge (No. 3) . . 127 

"Divinity Fudge" 128 

French Nut Nougat 128 

Hickory Nut Candy (No. 1) 129 

Hickory Nut Candy (No. 2) 129 

Honey Nut Nougat 128 

Maple Fudge 127 

Marbled Fudge 128 

Mexican Kisses or Penot- 

chie (No. 1) 129 

Mexican Kisses or Pendt- 

chie (No. 2) 129 

Nut Bars 130 

Nut Fudge 128 

Peanut Brittle (No. 1) 130 

Peanut Brittle (No. 2) 129 

Peanut Candy 130 

Sea-Foam Chocolate Fudge 129 

Sea-Foam Nut Fudge 130 

Walnut Molasses Candy. . . 130 
Unpulled Candies: Taffy, 
Pop Com and Candy 
Drops — 



Page 

Butter Taffy 131 

Cream Peppermint Drops. . 132 
Cream Wintergreen Drops. 132 

Lemon Drops 133 

Lemon Taffy 131 

Maple Sugar Taffy 131 

Molasses Nut Taffy 131 

Molasses Pop Corn Taffy. . 131 

Molasses Taffy (No. 1) 131 

Molasses Taffy (No. 2) 131 

Old Virginia Molasses Taffy 132 

Peppermint Drops 133 

Pop Corn Balls 132 

Sugar Taffy (No. 1) 132 

Sugar Taffy (No. 2) 132 

Wintergreen Drops 133 

Unpulled Candies: Nut and 
Fruit Candies and Marsh- 
Mallows — 

Almond Squares 133 

Candied Nuts 134 

Candy Pudding 135 

Creamed Almonds 133 

Fruit Bars 134 

Kisses 134 

Maple Marshmallow Dain- 
ties 136 

Marshmallows 134 

Marshmallows (Chocolate) 135 
Marshmallow Dainties .... 135 
Orange or Lemon Peel Can- 
died 135 

Orange Straws 136 

Pulled Candies: Molasses, 
Sugar and Cream Can- 
dies — 

Lemon Cream Candy 137 

Molasses Candy (No. 1) . . . 136 
Molasses Candy (No. 2) . . . 137 

Molasses Velvets 137 

Orange Cream Candy 138 

Rose-Red Cream Candy. . . 138 
Snow- White Cream Candy. 139 

Sugar Candy 137 

Vanilla Cream Candy 139 

Variegated Cream Candy. . 138 

Vinegar Candy 138 

Virginia Barley Sugar. . . . 139 

Virginia Crisps 138 

Cantaloupe Cocktail 2 

Canton Ginger Sherbet 95 

Caper Sauce 36 

Caramel Icing 84 



INDEX 



169 



Page 

Caramel Sauce 96 

Caramel Toast Pudding 88 

Carrots Sauteed 29 

Carrots Vinaigrette 31 

Cauliflower Soup 6 

Celery and Egg Sandwiches . . 74 

Celery, Braised 30 

Celery, Cream of 7 

Celery, Nut, and Potato Loaf 48 

Celery Relish 2 

Celery Root, Creamed 29 

Celery Root, Salad 59 

Celery Sauce 36 

Celery Toast 75 

Cereals — 

Com Meal and Beef 

Scrapple 51 

Corn Meal Mush 49 

Hominy, Steamed 50 

Macaroni and Cheese, 

Scalloped 50 

Noodle Balls (for Soup) . . 49 

Noodle Paste 50 

Oatmeal, Scotch 49 

Polenta, French Fried 51 

Polenta, Spanish 50 

Polenta, with Cheese 50 

Polenta, with Dates 50 

Rice and Cocoanut Loaf. . . 51 

Rice and Ham, Baked 51 

Rice, Boiled 52 

Risotto 51 

Samp, Steamed 52 

Spaghetti and Ham, Baked 51 

Spaghetti, Creole 52 

Spaghetti, Italian 52 

Wheat and Sausage 

Scrapple 52 

Charlotte Russe, Cake for. . . 81 

Charlotte Russe, Filling. . . 91 

Cheese and Apple Rings.... 2 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches. 74 

Cheese, Baked Rice with .... 47 

Cheese, Balls 53 

Cheese Club Sandwiches .... 74 

Cheese, Cottage 47 

Cheese, Crackers and, Baked 48 

Cheese Croquettes 53 

Cheese Croustades 47 

Cheese Custard 47 

Cheese Drops 82 

Cheese Fondue 47 

Cheese Muffins 68 



Page 

Cheese Paste 47 

Cheese Sauce 36 

Cheese Sauce, with Chives.. . 36 

Cheese, Scalloped, Toast and 45 

Cheese Soup 7 

Cheese, Spanish 2 

Cheese Straws 104 

Cheese Straws (Left-over 

Paste 104 

Cheese Toast 75 

Cheese Tomato Rarebit 48 

Cheese Wafers 83 

Cheese Wafers 104 

Cheese Welsh Rarebit 48 

Cherry Pie 101 

Cherry Pie, Mock 101 

Chestnuts, Baked 49 

Chestnuts, to Shell . 48 

Chicken and Okra Soup 10 

Chicken, Cream of 10 

Chicken Livers and Bacon. . . 25 

Chicken Salad 57 

Chicken Sandwiches 74 

Chili Sauce, Winter 2 

Chocolate 5 

Chocolate Blancmange 91 

Chocolate Bonbons 109 

Chocolate Cookies 83 

Chocolate Ice Cream 94 

Chocolate Icing 85 

Chocolate Marshmallow Roll 82 
Chocolate Marshmallow, 

Sauce 97 

Chocolate Sauce 96 

Chowders — 

Clam 13 

Corn 13 

Com and Tomato 13 

Fish 14 

Oyster 14 

Potato 14 

Salmon 14 

Salt Fish 14 

Vegetable 14 

Cider Frappe 95 

Cider Sauce 37 

Cider Sirup 78 

Cinnamon Hearts 104 

Cinnamon Sauce 97 

Cinnamon Toast 75 

Clam Bisque 10 

Clam Bouillon 10 

Clam Chowder 13 



170 



INDEX 



Page 

Clear Soup 10 

Club Canapes 1 

Cocktail, Fruit 2 

Cocktail, Cantaloupe 2 

Cocktail Sauce 1 

Cocoa 5 

Cocoa Ice Cream 94 

Cocoa Icing 

Cocoanut and Orange Jelly. . 91 

Codfish, Creamed 17 

Codfish, Spanish 18 

Cod Steaks, Baked 15 

Coffee, After-dinner 5 

Coffee and Rice Jelly 91 

Coffee Cake, Quick 70 

Coffee Caramel Custards.... 91 

Coffee Cream Filling 85 

Coffee, Egg, and Milk 4 

Coffee, Filtered 5 

Coffee Ice Cream 94 

Coffee Icing 84 

Coffee Junket 91 

Coffee Sauce 97 

Cookies — 

Bran Drop 82 

Cheese Drops 82 

Cheese Wafers 83 

Chocolate 83 

Ginger Wafers 83 

Macaroons, Oatmeal 84 

Macaroons, Peanut 84 

Marshmallow Wafers .... 83 

Molasses Brownies 83 

Raisin Drop 83 

Walnut Wafers 84 

Cooking, Kinds of, defined . . VIII 

Corn and Tomato Chowder. . 13 

Com Bread, Country 67 

Corn Bread, Molasses 69 

Corn Bread, without Eggs ... 67 

Corn Cake, Custard 67 

Com Cake, Rhode Island .... 68 

Corn Chowder 13 

Corn, Cream of 7 

Corn Fritters 54 

Corn Meal and Beef Scrapple 51 

Com Meal Griddle Cakes 77 

Com Meal Mush 49 

Corn Meal Rolls 70 

Com Meal Waffles 78 

Corn Muffins 67 

Com Muffins, Raised 65 

Com Pudding 29 



Page 

Com and Rice Muffins 67 

Coronado Salad 57 

Cottage Cheese 47 

Cottage Pudding 88 

Crab Canapes, Mock 1 

Crab Meat Canapes 1 

Crackers and Cheese, Baked. 48 

Cranberry Conserve 106 

Cranberry Fritters 55 

Cranberry Muffins 68 

Cranberry Pie 101 

Cranberry Pie (Open) 101 

Cranberry Pudding, Baked. . . 88 

Cranberry Sauce 106 

Cranberry Sauce (Pudding). 96 

Cranberry Sherbet 95 

Cranberry Whip 92 

Cream Cheese Salad 61 

Cream Cheese Salad, Frozen 60 

Cream of Celery Soup 7 

Cream of Chicken Soup 10 

Cream of Corn Soup 7 

Cream of Pea Soup 7 

Cream Filling 86 

Cream Icing 85 

Cream Pie 81 

Cream Toast 76 

Cream Toast, Sauce for. ... 75 

Creamy Eggs on Toast 44 

Creamy Omelet 45 

Creole Eggs 44 

Creole Sauce 36 

Crescents 63 

Crisp Sticks 77 

Croquette Sauce 36 

Cheese 53 

Cheese Balls 53 

Fish 53 

Meat 53 

Potato and Bean 54 

Rice 53 

Rice and Raisin 54 

Salmon and Potato 54 

Croustades 76 

Croustades, Cheese 47 

Croutons 77 

Crumb Muffins 68 

Crumbs, Buttered 76 

Crumbs for Fried Food 53 

Crust Stuffing 38 

Cucumber Pickles 3 

Cucumber Sauce 36 

Cucumbers Sauteed 29 



INDEX 



171 



Page 

Currant Jelly Sauce 97 

Custard, Baked Rice 90 

Custard, Cheese 47 

Custard, Coffee Caramel.... 91 

Custard Pie 101 

Custard Sauce 97 

Dark Red Apple Sauce 105 

Date and Apple Shortcake . . 73 

Date and Fig Filling 86 

Date Bread 62 

Date Bread 66 

Date Bread, Steamed 66 

Date Cake 79 

Date Muffins, Raised 64 

Date Muffins 69 

Date Rolls 70 

Date Sauce 97 

Desserts, Cold — 

Banana Royal 90 

Banana Whip 90 

Banana and Grape Juice 

Jelly 90 

Blackberry Mold 90 

Charlotte Russe Filling... 91 

Chocolate Blancmange .... 91 

Cocoanut and Orange Jelly 91 

Coffee and Rice Jelly 91 

Coffee Caramel Custards.. 91 

Coffee Junket 91 

Cranberry Whip 92 

Custard Soft 90 

Fruit Cream 92 

Fruit Jelly, Spiced 92 

Fruit Whip 92 

Pineapple Pudding 92 

Prune and Wheat Mold 93 

Prune Whip 92 

Prunes and Cranberries, 

Jellied 92 

Rice Mold 93 

Sea Moss Blancmange.... 93 
Desserts, Frozen — 

Ices, to Freeze 93 

Canton Ginger Sherbet. ... 95 

Chocolate Ice Cream 94 

Cider Frappe 95 

Cocoa Ice Cream 93 

Coffee Ice Cream 94 

Cranberry and Raisin Sher- 
bet 95 

Frozen Custard 93 

Frozen Watermelon 96 



Page 

Fruit Sherbet 95 

Gi'ape Bombe 95 

Grape Sherbet 95 

Jelly Sherbet 95 

Mint Ice Cream 94 

Orange Velvet Cream 94 

Philadelphia Ice Cream.. . . 94 

Pineapple Sherbet 96 

Prune Ice Cream 94 

Somerset Sherbet 96 

Strawberry Ice Cream .... 94 

Strawberry Sherbet 96 

Vanilla Ice Cream 94 

Desserts, Hot — 

Apple Cake, Dutch 87 

Apple Cake, Ginger 87 

Apple Pudding, Steamed . . 87 

Apple Roulettes 87 

Banana Toast 87 

Blackberry Pudding 87 

Blueberry Pudding 87 

Brown Betty 87 

Caramel Toast Pudding ... 88 

Chocolate Pudding, Steamed 88 

Cottage Pudding 88 

Cranberry Pudding, Baked. 88 

Fig Pudding, Steamed.... 89 

Fruit Pudding, Steamed ... 88 

Indian Pudding, Baked .... 88 

Indian Tapioca Pudding. . . 89 

Mock Indian Pudding 89 

Mulled Rice 89 

Peach Dumplings 89 

Rice Custard, Baked 90 

Rice Pudding, Baked 89 

Doughnuts 55 

Doughnuts, Small Tea 55 

Doughnuts, Stale, to Freshen 76 

Drawn Butter 37 

Dried Crumb Griddle Cakes. 77 

Dried Fruit to Cook 105 

Dried Lima Bean Soup 6 

Drop Biscuit, Quick 70 

Dumplings 12 

Dumplings, Peach 89 

Dutch Potato Salad 59 

Eggnog 40 

Eggs, Boiled 43 

Creamy, on Toast 44 

Creole 44 

Egg for Dipping Fried 

Food 53 



172 



INDEX 



Page 

Scalloped, with Cheese. ... 46 

Scrambled, with Sausages. 46 

Scrambled, with Tomatoes . 46 

Shirred 46 

Shirred, with Ham 46 

Shirred, with Potato and 

Ham 43 

Souffleed, with Ham Toast 46 

with Cheese and Spaghetti 44 

with Ham and Tomatoes. 44 

Egg Plant, Baked 30 

Egg Plant, Fried 30 

Egg Plant, Julienne 30 

Egg Sauce 37 

Entire Wheat Biscuit 70 

Entire Wheat Bread 62 

Entire Wheat Popovers 71 

Fat, to Clarify 52 

Fat, to Try Out 53 

Fig Paste 107 

Fillings — 

Apple 85 

Coffee Cream 85 

Cream 86 

Date and Fig 86 

Fudge 86 

Marshmallow 86 

Mocha 86 

Orange 86 

Prune 85 

Filtered Coffee 5 

Finnan Haddie Baked in Milk 16 

Finnan Haddie, Broiled 17 

Fish- 
Cod Steaks, Baked 15 

Creamed Codfish 17 

Finnan Haddie, Baked 16 

Finnan Haddie, Broiled.... 17 

Flounder, Fried Fillet 15 

Haddock, Baked Stuffed. . . 15 

Halibut, Boiled 15 

Herring, Baked 16 

Herring, Broiled 17 

Mackerel, Baked Salt, 

Spiced 17 

Oyster Pie, Creamed 15 

Oyster Shortcake 16 

Oysters and Macaroni.... 16 

Oysters, Broiled 15 

Oysters, Creamed 16 

Oysters, Panned 16 

Oysters, with Brown Sauce 16 



Page 

Salmon, Broiled Smoked. . 17 
Salt Codfish Baked with 

Crackers 17 

Salt Codfish, Broiled 17 

Salt Codfish, Souffle 18 

Sauteed with Salt Pork... 15 

Spanish Codfish 18 

Fish Balls 17 

Fish Cakes with Pork Scraps 18 

Fish Chowder 14 

Fish Croquettes 53 

Fish Hash 18 

Fish Stuffing 38 

Flavoring Extracts 

Flounder, Fried Fillet of 15 

Fondant Bonbons 109 

Fondant, Coffee 109 

Fondant Mints 109 

Fondant, Plain 109 

Fondant, Quick 109 

Fondue, Cheese 47 

Fowl, Brown Fricassee 42 

French Cheese Omelet 45 

French Dressing 57 

French Fried Potatoes 32 

French Omelet 45 

French Toast 76 

Fried Bread 63 

Fritters, Apple, Sliced 54 

Fritters, Banana 54 

Fritters, Corn 54 

Fritters, Cranberry 55 

Fritters, Rice and Currant. . . 55 

Fritters, Salmon 55 

Frozen Custard 93 

Fruit, Apple Sauce, Dark Red 105 
Fruit, Baked Apples, with 

Dates 105 

Fruit, Baked Bananas 105 

Fruit, Pears 107 

Fruit, Rhubarb and Bananas. 108 
Fruit, Bananas, with Figs and 

Nuts 106 

Fruit, Bar-le-Duc Currants, 

Mock 106 

Fruit, Candied Grape Fruit 

. Peel 107 

Fruit, Cranberry Conserve. . 106 

Fruit, Cranberry Sauce 106 

Fruit, Dried, to Cook 105 

Fruit, Fig Paste, Laxative. . 107 

Fruit, Grape and Apple Jelly. 105 

Fruit, Grape and Apple Sauce 105 



INDEX 



173 



Page 

Fruit, Jam, Red Tomato 108 

Fruit, Marmalade, Pear and 

Ginger 107 

Fruit, Marmalade, Rhubarb 

and Fig 107 

Fruit, Marmalade, Three in 

One 108 

Fruit, Preserved Cranberries 106 

Fruit, Quince Honey 107 

Fruit, Red Currant Conserve. 106 
Fruit, Spiced Apple Jelly... 105 

Fruit, Cranberries 106 

Fruit, Prunes 108 

Fruit, Watermelon Rind, 

Sweet Pickled 108 

Fruit Cocktail 2 

Fruit Cream 92 

Fruit Sauce 97 

Fruit Sherbet 95 

Fruit Soup 7 

Fruit Tea Biscuit 70 

Fruit Wafers 141 

Fruit Whip 92 

Fudge Cake 80 

Fudge Filling 86 

Gherkins 3 

Giblet Sandwiches 74 

Ginger Ale Punch 4 

Ginger Apple Cake 92 

Ginger Gems 81 

Ginger Punch 4 

Ginger Sauce 97 

Ginger Wafers 83 

Gingerbread, Sour Milk 82 

Gingerbread, with Egg 82 

Gingerbread, without Egg ... 82 

Gloucester Canapes 1 

Goldenrod Ham Toast 76 

Gooseberry Patties 103 

Gooseberry Pie 101 

Graham and Com Bread 63 

Graham Biscuit 70 

Graham Popovers 71 

Grape Bombe 95 

Grape Eggnog 4 

Grape Juice 4 

Grape Juice and Apple Sauce 105 

Grape Sherbet 95 

Griddle Cakes, Com Meal 77 

Griddle Cakes, Dried Crumb. 77 

Griddle Cakes, Plain 77 



Page 
Griddle Cakes, Raised Buck- 
wheat 78 

Griddle Cakes, Rice 78 

Griddle Cakes, Sour Milk... 77 

Haddock, Baked Stuffed 15 

Halibut, Boiled 15 

Ham and Cheese Sandwiches . 74 

Ham and Potato, Baked 26 

Ham, Baked Sliced 23 

Ham, Broiled 24 

Ham Mousse 27 

Ham Omelet 44 

Hamburg Meat Cakes 20 

Hard Sauce 97 

Hash, Corned Beef, with Beets 27 

Hash, Fish 18 

Hash, Pepper 3 

Hash, Savory, Baked 27 

Hash, Southern 27 

Hash, Vegetable 34 

Herring, Baked 16 

Herring, Smoked Broiled .... 17 

Hollandaise Sauce 37 

Hominy, Steamed 50 

Honey, Quince 107 

Horseradish Sauce 37 

Iced Tea 5 

Icings, Boiled 84 

Icings, Caramel 84 

Icings, Chocolate 85 

Icings, Cocoa 85 

Icings, Coffee 84 

Icings, Cream 85 

Icings, Orange 85 

Icings, Quick 85 

Indian Tapioca Pudding 89 

Irish Bread 62 

Irish Stew with Dumplings . . 12 

Jam, Red Tomato 108 

Jam Cakes, Fried 55 

Jam Rolls 71 

Jellied Prunes and Cran- 
berries 92 

Jelly, Banana and Grape 90 

Jelly, Cocoanut and Orange . . 91 

Jelly, Coffee and Rice 91 

Jelly, Grape and Apple 105 

Jelly, Spiced Apple 105 

Jelly, Spiced Fruit 92 

Jelly Roll, Cake for 81 



174 



INDEX 



Jelly Sherbet 95 

Julienne Soup 10 

Ketchup Tomato 3 

Kidneys, Devilled 26 

Kidneys, in Brown Sauce 25 

Lamb Broth with Spaghetti . . 12 

Lamb, Brown Fricassee 21 

Lamb, Casserole of 22 

Lamb Chops -. . 21 

Lamb Cutlets 21 

Lamb, Rolled Roast 22 

Leek Salad 57 

Leeks, Creamed 31 

Lemon Pie 101 

Lemon Sauce 98 

Lemon Sirup 78 

Lemonade, Mint 4 

Light Omelet 45 

Lima Bean Loaf 29 

Lima Bean Soup, Dried 6 

Liver, Lamb's and Bacon. ... 25 

Liver, Braised 25 

Liver, Brown Fricassee ... 25 

Liver Patties 28 

Loaf, Beef 21 

Loaf, Celery, Nut, and Potato 48 

Loaf, Ham 25 

Loaf, Lima Bean 29 

Loaf, Nut 49 

Loaf, Rice and Cocoanut. ... 51 

Loaf, Veal, Baked 24 

Loaf, Veal, Boiled 24 

Macaroni and Cheese, 

Scalloped 50 

Macaroni, Oysters and 16 

Macaroons, Oatmeal 84 

Macaroons, Peanut 84 

Mackerel, Baked Salt (Spiced) 17 

Marlborough Pie 102 

Marmalade, Pear and Ginger 107 

Marmalade, Three in One 108 

Marrons Glaces 141 

Marshmallow Filling 86 

Marshmallow Sandwiches ... 74 

Marshmallow Sauce 98 

Marshmallow Wafers 83 

Mayonnaise Dressing 56 

Meat and Potato Salad 58 

Meat Croquettes 53 

Meats, American Chop Suey. 20 



Page 

Meats, Baked Ham and Potato 26 

Meats, Baked Sliced Ham ... 23 

Meats, Beef and Bacon Cakes 21 

Meats, Beef Loaf 21 

Meats, Braised Liver 25 

Meats, Breakfast Bacon 24 

Meats, Broiled Chopped Beef. 20 

Meats, Broiled Flank Steak. . 20 

Meats, Boiled Ham 24 

Meats, Brown Fricassee of 

Fowl 42 

Meats, Brown Fricassee of 

Lamb 21 

Meats, Brown Fricassee of 

Liver 25 

Meats, Casserole of Lamb ... 22 
Meats, Casserole of Rabbit 

and Okra 22 

Meats, Chicken Livers and 

Bacon . .' 25 

Meats, Chicken Pie 42 

Meats, Corned Beef Hash 

with Beets 27 

Meats, Country Club Rabbit. 22 
Meats, Creamed Dried Beef 

with Cheese 21 

Meats, Devilled Kidneys .... 26 
Meats, Fried Lamb's Liver 

and Bacon 25 

Meats, Ham Loaf 23 

Meats, Ham Mousse 27 

Meats, Hamburg Meat Cakes 20 

Meats, Lamb Chops 21 

Meats, Lamb Cutlets 21 

Meats, Lamb's Kidneys in 

Brown Sauce 25 

Meats, Liver Patties 28 

Meats, Meat Shortcake 27 

Meats, Meat Souffle 28 

Meats, Meat and Tomato Pie. 28 
Meats, Pork Chops Baked 

with Potatoes 23 

Meats, Pot Roast of Beef. . . 19 

Meats, Potted Head 23 

Meats, Potted Pigeons 43 

Meats, Pressed Beef 18 

Meats, Pressed Corn Beef... 18 

Meats, Roast Beef 19 

Meats, Roast Breast of Veal . 24 

Meats, Roast Fowl 42 

Meats, Roast Pork 22 

Meats, Rolled Roast of 

Lamb 22 



INDEX 



175 



Page 

Meats, Sausage Cakes 23 

Meats, Sausage Cakes with 

Apple 23 

Meats, Sausage with Oysters 

and Eggs 23 

Meats, Savory Beef 26 

Meats, Savory Hash (Baked) 27 
Meats, Scalloped Corned Beef 27 
Meats, Shin of Beef, Creole 

Sauce 19 

Meats, Southern Hash 27 

Meats, Spanish Tripe 25 

Meats, Steak, to Broil 19 

Meats, Steak, Country Style. 20 
Meats, Stuffed Shin of Beef. . 19 
Meats, Tripe Fried in Batter 26 
Meats, Tripe Fried in Crumbs 26 

Meats, Veal Loaf, Baked 24 

Meats, Veal Loaf, Boiled 24 

Meats, Veal with Vegetables 24 
Meringue for Tarts and Pies 100 

Meringue, One-Egg 100 

Milk, Coffee, Egg, and 4 

Mince Meat 100 

Mince Meat, Mock 99 

Minee Meat, Green Tomato . . 100 

Mince Pie 102 

Mint Julep (Ginger Ale) .... 4 

Mint Lemonade 4 

Mint Ice Cream 94 

Mint Paste 140 

Mint Sauce 37 

Mints, After-dinner 140 

Mints, Quick 140 

Mocha Filling 86 

Mocha Sauce 98 

Mock Bar-le-Duc Currants. . 106 

Mock Cherry Pie 101 

Mock Crab Canapes 1 

Mock Crab Sandwiches 74 

Mock Indian Pudding 89 

Mock Turtle Soup 9 

Molasses Brownies 83 

Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Blueberry 67 

Muffins, Baking Powder, Bran 68 
Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Buttermilk 69 

Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Cambridge 68 

Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Cheese 68 

Muffins, Baking Powder, Corn 67 



Page 

Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Corn and Rice 67 

Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Cranberry 68 

Muffins, Baking Powder, 

. Crumb 68 

Muffins, Baking Powder, Date 69 
Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Plain 69 

Muffins, Baking Powder, Rye 69 
Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Sally Lunn 69 

Muffins, Baking Powder, 

Sour Milk 69 

Muffins, Yeast, Raised 65 

Muffins, Yeast, Raised Corn. 65 
Muffins, Yeast, Raised Date. 64 
Muffins, Yeast, Raised Oat- 
meal 65 

Muffins, Stale, to Freshen. . . 76 

Mulled Rice 89 

Mushroom Sauce 37 

Mushroom Soup 11 

Mustard Butter 75 

Mustard Pickle Sauce 37 

Nasturtium Seeds, Pickled. . 3 

Noodle Balls (for Soup) 49 

Noodle Paste 50 

Nut Bread, Dark 66 

Nuts, Almonds, Salted 48 

Nuts, Celery, Nut, and 

Potato Loaf 43 

Nuts, Chestnuts, Baked 49 

Nuts, Chestnuts, to Shell 48 

Nuts, Loaf 49 

Nuts, Marrons Glaces 141 

Nuts, Nuts and Fruits Glace 141 

Nuts, Peanut Butter 49 

Oatmeal, Scotch 49 

Oatmeal, Bread 63 

Oatmeal, Macaroons 84 

Oatmeal, Muffins, Raised.... 65 

Oatmeal, Soup 7 

Oatmeal, Waffies 78 

Omelets, Bread 44 

Omelets, Creamy 45 

Omelets, French 45 

Omelets, French Cheese 45 

Omelets, Ham 44 

Omelets, Light 45 

Omelets, Salmon 45 



176 



INDEX 



Page 

One-Egg Cake 79 

Onion Salad 58 

Onion Soup 11 

Onion, Spanish, and Tomato 

Salad 60 

Onions in Potato Nests 30 

Orange and Cress Salad 61 

Orange Cake 80 

Orange Filling 86 

Orange Icing 85 

Orange Marmalade Sauce ... 98 

Orange Mint Sauce 37 

Orange Pie 102 

Orange Sirup 78 

Orange Velvet Cream 94 

Oyster Chowder 14 

Oyster Pie, Creamed 15 

Oyster Plant, Creamed 34 

Oyster Shortcake 16 

Oyster Stew 11 

Oyster and Celery Bouillon. . 11 

Oysters and Macaroni 16 

Oysters, Broiled 15 

Oysters, Creamed 16 

Oysters with Brown Sauce . . 16 

Oyster, Panned 16 

Panned Oysters 16 

Parker House Rolls 64 

Pastry, Apple Pie, Sliced 100 

Pastry, Banbury Tarts 103 

Pastry, Blueberry Pie 100 

Pastry, Cheese Straws 104 

Pastry, Cheese Straws (Left- 
over Paste) 104 

Pastry, Cheese Wafers 104 

Pastry, Cherry Pie 101 

Pastry, Cherry Pie, Mock... 101 

Pastry, Cinnamon Hearts . . . 104 

Pastry, Cranberry Pie 100 

Pastry, Cranberry Pie (Open) 101 

Pastry, Custard Pie 101 

Pastry, Gooseberry Patties. . 103 

Pastry, Gooseberry Pie 101 

Pastry, Lemon Pie 101 

Pastry, Marlborough Pie . . . 102 

Pastry, Mince Pie 102 

Pastry, Orange Pie 102 

Pastry, Patty Shells 99 

Pastry, Pie Shell 99 

Pastry, Pineapple Pie 102 

Pastry, Plain Paste 98 

Pastry, Prune and Apple Tart 104 



Page 

Pastry, Prune Patties 103 

Pastry, Prune Pie 102 

Pastry, Pumpkin Pie 102 

Pastry, Raisin Pie 103 

Pastry, Raspberry Pie (In- 
dividual) 103 

Pastry, Rhubarb Pie 103 

Pastry, Rhubarb Meringue 

Patties 104 

Pastry, Rich Paste 99 

Pastry, Squash Patties 104 

Pastry, Squash Pie 103 

Pastry, Tart Shells 99 

Pea Soup, Cream of 7 

Peas, Puree of Split 8 

Peach Dumplings . 89 

Peanut Butter 49 

Peanut Macaroons 84 

Peanut Sandwich Filling ... 75 

Peanut Stuffing 38 

Pear Salad 61 

Peas and Lettuce 31 

Peas, Green 31 

Pepper and Cabbage Salad. . 59 

Pepper Hash 3 

Peppers, Stuffed Green 30 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 94 

Piccalilli 2 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds . . 3 

Pickles, Cucumber 3 

Pie, Chicken 42 

Pie, Meat and Tomato 28 

Pie, Oyster 15 

Pie Shell 99 

Pigeons, Potted 43 

Pie, Meringue for 100 

Pineapple and Cottage Cheese 

Salad 61 

Pineapple Pie 102 

Pineapple, Cheese, and Date 

Salad 61 

Pineapple Pudding 92 

Pineapple Sherbet 96 

Plain Cake 80 

Plain Muffins 69 

Plain Paste 98 

Polenta, French Fried 51 

Polenta, Spanish 50 

Polenta with Cheese 50 

Polenta with Dates 50 

Popovers 71 

Popovers, Entire Wheat 71 

Popovers, Graham 71 

Pork Cake 80 



INDEX 



177 



Pap:e 

Pork Chops 23 

Pork, Roast 22 

Potato and Bean Croquettes 54 

Potato Chowder 14 

Potato Croutons 31 

Potato Salad 59 

Potato Soup 9 

Potato, Sweet, Custard .... 33 

Potatoes, Baked 31 

Potatoes, Boiled 31 

Potatoes, Creamed 31 

Potatoes, French Fried .... 32 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown ... 32 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise 32 

Potatoes, Pan-Roasted 32 

Potatoes, Scalloped, with 

Cheese 33 

Potatoes, Scalloped, with 

Peppers and Cheese 32 

Potatoes, Stuffed, with 

Cheese and Bacon 32 

Potatoes, Stuffed, with Nuts 

and Cheese 32 

Potatoes, Sweet, French 

Fried 33 

Potatoes, Sweet, glazed .... 33 

Potatoes, Sweet, stuffed .... 33 

Potted Head 23 

Poultry 39 

Boiled or Roast of Duck. . 42 

Brown Fricassee of Fowl. 42 

Chicken Fricassee 41 

Chicken Pie 42 

Chicken with Dumplings.. 41 

Fried Chicken 40 

Fried Guinea Hen 43 

Hot Tomales 41 

Pickled Chicken 40 

Potted Pigeons 43 

Pressed or Potted Chicken 40 

Roast Fowl 42 

Roast Goose 43 

Roast Turkey 41 

Scalloped Chicken 40 

Smothered Chicken 40 

Steamed Fowl 40 

Preserved Cranberries 106 

Prune and Apple Shortcake. 73 

Prune and Apple Tart 104 

Prune and Wheat Mold 93 

Prune Filling 85 

Prune Ice Cream 94 



Page 

Prune Patties 103 

Prune Pie 102 

Prune Whip 92 

Pudding, Blackberry 87 

Pudding, Blueberry 87 

Pudding, Brown Betty 87 

Pudding, Caramel Toast ... 88 

Pudding, Chocolate, Steamed 88 

Pudding, Cottage 88 

Pudding, Cranberry, Baked. 88 

Pudding, Fig, Steamed 89 

Pudding, Fruit, Steamed ... 88 

Pudding, Indian, Baked .... 88 

Pudding, Indian Tapioca ... 89 

Pudding, Mock Indian 89 

Pudding, Pinapple 92 

Pudding, Rice, Baked 89 

Puffs, Breakfast 72 

Pumpkin Pie 102 

Punch, Ginger Ale 4 

Punch, Ginger 4 

Puree of Black Beans 6 

Puree of Red Kidney Beans 6 

Puree of Split Peas 8 

Quick Icing 85 

Quince Honey 107 

Rabbit, Casserole of, and 

Okra 22 

Rabbit, Country Club 22 

Raised Buckwheat Cakes ... 78 

Raised Corn Muffins 65 

Raised Muffins 65 

Raisin Bread 66 

Raisin Bread and Cheese 

Sandwiches 74 

Raisin Drop Cookies 83 

Raisin Pie 103 

Rarebit, Tomato 48 

Rarebit, Welsh 48 

Raspberry Pie, Individual . . 103 

Red Current Conserve 106 

Relish, Celery 2 

Rhubarb and Fig Marmalade 107 

Rhubarb Meringue Patties . . 104 

Rhubarb Pie 103 

Rice and Cocoanut Loaf ... 51 

Rice and Currant Fritters . . 55 

Rice and Ham, Baked 51 

Rice and Raisin Croquettes. 54 

Rice and Tomato Soup .... 8 

Rice, Baked, with Cheese... 47 



178 



INDEX 



Page 

Rice, Boiled 52 

Rice Croquettes 53 

Rice Griddle Cakes 78 

Rice Mold 93 

Rice, Mulled 89 

Rice Waffles 78 

Rich Paste 99 

Rings, Cheese and Apple... 2 

Risotto 51 

Roast Goose, Sauce for 39 

Roast Pork, Sauce for 39 

Rolls, Bacon Sandwich .... 69 

Rolls, Corn Meal 70 

Rolls, Date 70 

Rolls, Jam 71 

Rolls, Yeast, Parker House. 64 

Rolls, Yeast, Shamrock .... 64 
Rolls, Yeast, Stale, to 

Freshen 76 

Rolls, Yeast, Swedish Coffee 64 

Roulette, Apple 87 

Roulette, Cheese 73 

Roulette, Devilled Ham 73 

Roulette, Fruit 73 

Roulette, Marmalade 73 

Roulette, Peanut Butter ... 73 

Roulette, Raised 65 

Roulette, Raisin and Nut... 73 

Russian Dressing 57 

Rye Bread 63 

Rye Muffins 69 

Salad, Baked Bean 58 

Salad, Banana and Apple. . . 59 

Salad, Banana and Peanut. 59 

Salad, Bellevue 61 

Salad, Bermuda Onion .... 58 
Salad, Cabbage and Beet... 58 
Salad, Cabbage and Cran- 
berry 59 

Salad, Celery Root 59 

Salad, Chicken 57 

Salad, Coronado 57 

Salad, Cream Cheese 61 

Salad, Cream Cheese, Frozen 60 

Salad, Dutch Potato 59 

Salad, Leek 57 

Salad, Meat and Potato 58 

Salad, Orange and Cress... 61 

Salad, Pear 61 

Salad, Pepper and Cabbage. 59 
Salad, Pinapple, Cheese and 

Date 61 



Page 

Salad, Pinapple and Cottage 

Cheese 61 

Salad, Potato 59 

Salad, Salmon 58 

Salad, Samoset 59 

Salad, Shrimp 58 

Salad, Spanish 60 

Salad, Spanish Onion and 

Tomato 60 

Salad, Sweet Potato 60 

Salad, Tomato Jelly 60 

Salad, Tuna 58 

Salad, Vegetable 60 

Salad, Waldorf, Jellied 61 

Salad Dressing, Cooked .... 56 
Salad Dressing, Evaporated 

Milk 56 

Salad Dressing, Current 

' Jelly 56 

Salad Dressing, Devilled 

Ham 56 

Salad Dressing, French .... 57 

Salad Dressing, Mayonnaise 56 
Salad Dressing, Potato 

Mayonnaise 56 

Salad Dressing, Quick 

Mayonnaise 57 

Salad Dressing, Russian ... 57 

Salad Dressing, Sour Cream 57 
Salad Dressing, Uncooked, 

Condensed Milk 57 

Sally Lunn 69 

Salmon and Potato 

Croquettes 54 

Salmon Bisque 11 

Salmon Chowder 14 

Salmon Fritters 55 

Salmon Omelet 45 

Salmon Salad 58 

Salmon, Smoked, Broiled. ... 17 

Salsify, Creamed 34 

Salt Codfish Baked with 

Crackers 17 

Salt Fish, Broiled 17 

Salt Fish, Chowder 14 

Salt Fish, Souffle 18 

Samoset Salad 59 

Samp, Steamed 52 

Sandwich, Baked Bean and 

Lettuce 73 

Sandwich, Celery and Egg. . 74 

Sandwich, Cheese and Nut.. 74 

Sandwich, Cheese, Club 74 



INDEX 



179 



Page 

Sandwich, Chicken 74 

Sandwich, Giblet 74 

Sandwich, Ham and Cheese 74 

Sandwich, Marshmallow ... 74 

Sandwich, Mock Crab 74 

Sandwich, Mustard Butter. . 75 
Sandwich, Raisin Bread and 

Cheese 74 

Sandwich Filling, Peanut . . 75 

Sauce, Cocktail 1 

Sauce for Desserts, Caramel 96 
Sauce for Desserts, 

Chocolate 96 

Sauce for Desserts, 

Chocolate Marshmallow . . 96 
Sauce for Desserts, 

Cinnamon 97 

Sauce for Desserts, Coffee. . 97 
Sauce for Desserts, Cran- 
berry 96 

Sauce for Desserts, Currant 

Jelly 97 

Sauce for Desserts, Custard. 97 
Sauce for Desserts, Date ... 97 
Sauce for Desserts, Fruit . . 97 
Sauce for Desserts, Ginger. . 97 
Sauce for Desserts, Hard . . 97 
Sauce for Desserts, Lemon.. 98 
Sauce for Desserts, Marsh- 
mallow 98 

Sauce for Desserts, Mocha. . 98 
Sauce for Desserts, Orange 

Marmalade 98 

Sauce for Desserts, Soft ... 98 
Sauce for Desserts, Straw- 
berry 98 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Anchovy 35 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Banana 35 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Bechamel 35 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Black Butter 35 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Bread 36 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Brown 35 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Caper 36 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Celery 36 



Page 
Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Cheese 36 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Cheese with Chives 36 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Cider 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Creole 36 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Croquette 36 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Cucumber 56 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Drawn Butter 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Egg 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Hollandaise 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Horseradish 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Mint 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Mushroom 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Mustard Pickle 37 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Orange Mint 37 

Sauce for Roast Goose ..•. . 39 

Sauce for Roast Pork 39 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Sharp 38 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Soubise 38 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Table 3 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Tartare 39 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Tomato 39 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

White 38 

Sauce for Fish and Meat, 

Winter Chili 2 

Sausage Cakes 23 

Sausage Cakes Baked with 

Apple 23 

Sausages with Oysters and 

Eggs 23 

Scalloped Eggs with Cheese 46 
Scalloped Toast and Cheese 48 

Scones, Potato 71 

Scones, Scotch 71 



180 



INDEX 



Page 

Scotch Oatmeal 49 

Scotch Broth 13 

Scrambled Eggs with 

Sausages 46 

Scrambled Eggs with 

Tomato 46 

Scrapple, Corn Meal and 

Beef 51 

Scrapple, Wheat, and 

Sausage 52 

Sea Moss Blancmange 93 

Shirred Eggs 46 

Shirred Eggs with Ham .... 46 
Shirred Eggs with Potato 

and Ham 43 

Shortcake 72 

Apple and Cranberry .... 72 

Banana 73 

Date and Apple 73 

Meat 27 

Oyster 16 

Prune and Apple 73 

Strawberry 72 

Shortening 52 

Shredded Wheat Bread 63 

Shrimp Salad 58 

Sirups, Brown Sugar 78 

Cider 78 

Lemon 78 

Orange 78 

Sliced Apple Pie 100 

Soft Custard 90 

Soft Sauce 98 

Somerset Sherbet 96 

Soubise Sauce 38 

Souffle, Meat 28 

Souffled Egg with Ham 

Toast 46 

Soup without Meat, 

Asparagus 6 

Baked Bean 6 

Black Bean 6 

Cauliflower 6 

Cheese 7 

Cream of Celery 7 

Cream of Corn 7 

Cream of Pea 7 

Dried Lima Bean 6 

Fruit 7 

Oatmeal 7 

Soup without Meat, Potato. 9 
Soup without Meat, 

Puree of Split Peas 8 



Page 

Soup without Meat, 

Red Kidney Bean 6 

Soup without Meat, 

Rice and Tomato 8 

Soup without Meat, 

Tomato Bouillon 9 

Soup without Meat, 

Tomato Bisque 8 

Soup without Meat, 

Tomato and Oatmeal 9 

Soup without Meat, 

Tomato and Peanut 9 

Soup without Meat, 

Vegetable 8 

Soup without Meat, 

Windsor 8 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Beef Stew 12 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Chicken and Okra . . 10 
Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Clam Bisque 10 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Clam Bouillon 10 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Clear 10 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Cream of Chicken.. 10 
Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Irish Stew with 

Dumplings 12 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Julienne 10 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Lamb Broth with 

Spaghetti 12 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Mock Turtle 9 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Mushroom 11 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Onion 11 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Oysters and Celery 

Bouillon 11 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Oyster Stew 11 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Salmon Bisque 11 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Scotch Broth 13 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Soup Stock 11 



INDEX 



181 



Page 
Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Tomato Tapioca 12 

Soup and Stew with Meat or 

Fish, Tuna 12 

Sour Cream Dressing 57 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 82 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 77 

Sour Milk Muffins 69 

Southern Corn Pudding.... 29 

Spaghetti and Ham, Baked. . 51 

Spaghetti, Creole 52 

Spaghetti, Italian 52 

Spanish Cheese 2 

Spanish Poleta 50 

Spanish Salad 60 

Spice Cake 80 

Spiced Cranberries 106 

Spiced Fruit Jelly 92 

Spiced Prunes 108 

Spiced Raisins 141 

Spinach 33 

Sponge Cake 81 

Sponge Cake, Velvet 81 

Squash, Baked Winter 33 

Squash Patties 104 

Squash Pie 103 

Stale Bread, to Freshen 76 

Steak, to Broil 19 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding. 88 

Steamed Fig Pudding 89 

Steamed Fruit Pudding. ... 88 

Strawberry Ice Cream 94 

Strawberry Sauce 98 

Strawberry Sherbet 96 

Strawberry Shortcake 72 

Stuffed Dates 141 

Stuffed Prunes 141 

Stuffing, Bread 38 

Stuffing, Crust 38 

Stuffing, Fish 38 

Stuffing, Peanut 38 

Succotash 35 

Sunday Toast 76 

Sweet Potato Salad 60 

Table Sauce 3 

Tartare Sauce 39 

Tarts, Banbury 103 

Tarts, Meringue for 100 

Tarts, Shells 99 

Tea 5 

Tea, Iced 5 

Toast, Brewis 75 



Page 

Toast, Brown Bread 75 

Toast, Celery 75 

Toast, Cheese 75 

Toast, Cinnamon 75 

Toast, Cream 76 

Toast, Cream, Sauce for .... 75 

Toast, Crisp Sticks 77 

Toast, Croustades 76 

Toast, Croutons 77 

Toast, French 76 

Toast, Goldenrod Ham 76 

Toast, Sunday 76 

Toast, Tomato Cream, with 

Egg 76 

Tomato and Oatmeal Soup. 9 

Tomato and Peanut Soup ... 9 

Tomato Bisque 8 

Tomato Bouillon & 

Tomato Cream Toast with 

Egg 76 

Tomato Custard 34 

Tomato Jelly Salad 60 

Tomato Ketchup 3 

Tomato, Rice and. Soup .... 8 

Tomato Sauce 39 

Tomato Tapioca Soup 12 

Tomatoes, Baked 34 

Tomatoes, Fried Green 34 

Tomatoes, Stewed 34 

Tomatoes, Stuffed 34 

Tripe Fried in Batter 26 

Tripe Fried in Crumbs 26 

Tripe, Spanish 25 

Tuna Canapes 1 

Tuna Salad 58 

Tuna Soup 12 

Turkish Delight 140 

Turnips, Creamed 33 

Vanilla Ice Cream 94 

Veal Loaf (Baked) 24 

Veal Loaf (Boiled) 24 

Veal, Roast Breast, Stuffed. 24 

Veal with Vegetables 24 

Vegetable Chowder 14 

Vegetable Salad 60 

Vegetable Soup 8 

Vegetables — 

Baked Beans 28 

Baked Cabbage 29 

Beans, Thick Puree of 

Black 28 

Braised Celery 30 



182 



INDEX 



Page 

Cabbage Cooked in Milk . . 29 

Carrots Sauteed 29 

Carrots Vinaigrette 31 

Corn Pudding 29 

Creamed Celery, Root .... 29 

Cucumbers Sauteed 29 

Egg Plant, Baked 30 

Egg Plant, Fried 30 

Egg Plant, Julienne 30 

Hash 34 

Leeks, Creamed 31 

Lima Bean Loaf 29 

Onions in Potato Nests ... 30 

Oyster Plant, Creamed ... 34 

Peas, Green 31 

Peas and Lettuce 31 

Peppers, Stuffed Green ... 30 

Potatoes, Baked 31 

Potatoes, Boiled 31 

Potatoes, Creamed 31 

Potatoes, French Fried ... 32 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown . . 32 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise 32 

Potatoes, Pan-Roasted ... 32 
Potatoes, Scalloped, with 

Cheese 33 

Potatoes, Scalloped with 

Peppers and Cheese .... 32 
Potatoes, Stuffed, with 

Cheese and Bacon 32 

Potatoes, Stuffed, with Nuts 

and Cheese ... 32 

Potatoes, Sweet, glazed. . 33 
Potatoes, Sweet, French 

Fried 33 

Potatoes, Sweet, Stuffed.. 33 

Potato Croutons 31 



Page 

Potato, Sweet, Custard ... 33 

Salsify, Creamed 34 

Spinach 33 

Squash, Baked Winter. ... 33 

Succotash 35 

Tomato Custard 34 

Tomatoes, Baked 34 

Tomatoes, Fried Green ... 34 

Tomatoes, Stewed 34 

Tomatoes, Stuffed 34 

Turnips, Creamed 33 

Waffles 77 

Waffles, Corn Meal 78 

Waffles, Oatmeal 78 

Waffles, Rice 78 

Whldorf Salad, Jellied 61 

Walnut Wafers 84 

Watermelon, Frozen 96 

Watermelon, Rind, Sweet 

Pickled 108 

Welsh Rarebit 48 

Wheat and Sausage Scrapple 52 

White Bread 62 

White Cake 81 

White Sauce 38 

Windsor Soup 8 

Winter Chili Sauce 2 

Drying Fruits and Vege- 
tables 142 

Butchering Time Recipes . . . 146 
Table of Weights and Meas- 
ures 161 

Time Tables for Cooking. . . 162 

Temperature Tables 164 



