1X65-^- 




X 



S6 



- 




~V 



TIME-SAVING COOKERT 

jne. JLouse. of OcLrctfiJ-ielcl SblirvL~ 



'Jfam^; -J,.:', 



Time-Saving Cookery 



To the HOMEMAKER WHO BELIEVES in the GOS- 
PEL of REST and RECREATION as WELL as in the 
GOSPEL of WORK 

TO reduce cookery to the least possible 
amount of work is not the sign of a lazy 
or shiftless housekeeper. A woman must 
take short-cuts to those necessary "three 
meals-a-day" if she wants time to enjoy 
friends, books, music and clubs, an occasional 
motor ride, an hour or two in the open. So 
plan to serve a last-minute meal to your 
family on certain days. 

Time-saving cookery has another use. In 
every home, no matter how well it is run, 
emergencies arise necessitating a quick change 
of menu. Perhaps one's husband brings 
home an unexpected guest, or at the busiest 
time of the morning a neighbor drops in "for 
a minute" and stays an hour, or small son is 
sent home ill from school and must be put to 
bed and dosed. At such moments as these, 
quick catering is thrice blessed. 

I can vouch for the suggestions and recipes 
given in this book. They were worked out 
especially for you, in my own kitchen by 
trained food experts and practical house- 
wives. The foods were bought fn our 
neighborhood grocery. 



C1A.696025 

DEC 18 '22 



""H« 1 



0° 

cr 

I 
to 

i 

r 




THERE are two ways of cutting down the labor of preparing meals. One is to 
make use of such devices as the tireless cooker, the oven heat regulator, the 
steamer and the casserole. Food put in charge of these silent servants needs little 
or no watching and with their aid a housewife may safely take an "afternoon 
off,'' returning just in time to dish up the evening meal. 

The other short-cut is even simpler. Prepared and semi-prepared foods of every 
conceivable kind can be purchased in cans or packages and can be made ready 
for the table in a very few minutes. 

How to Make Use of This Book 

THIS booklet tells you what supplies to keep on your shelves, how to combine 
them into appetizing, nutritious dishes and how to plan menus using them. Not 
all the prepared or semi-prepared products on the general market are listed here, but 
only those articles that can be found practically everywhere. A study of your 
grocer's shelves will doubtless reveal many other canned foods that will prove 
valuable time-savers in your own case. 

As families differ in their tastes and demands, each of you who read this book 
will have to choose the supplies that fit your needs and then see that they are 
always on your pantry shelf. 

If, in addition, you check with your pencil several menus (page 14), which 
you like and find suitable, you will never be at a loss to serve a delicious, well- 
balanced meal even if called upon at the eleventh hour. 

Note: The recipes in this booklet will serve four to six persons. 



1 



What Time-Saving Cookery Costs 

TO THE objection raised by many women that canned and packaged foods 
are an extravagance there is this practical answer : Any meal costs time, 
money and labor. If the homemaker saves time and labor she may have to spend 
more money, though this is a point about which there is much discussion. 

But to judge fairly of this increase (if increase it be) you must consider what 
it represents. A can of baked beans, for instance, is ready for immediate serving 
after only five minutes of heating. To prepare the same dish at home, one must 
soak the beans overnight, must take time to order pork from the butcher and 
must spend six to eight hours' fuel to cook it. 

To make the equivalent of a can of boned chicken, it is necessary to procure 
a chicken, prepare it for cooking, cook it for an hour or two and finally remove 
the meat from the bones. In some cases the cost of the raw materials equals the 
cost of the canned product. 

Remember then that though prepared goods do not replace raw materials for 
use day in and day out (unless time and labor have a higher money value, as 
in the case of a business woman) they are more than worth while to the average 
housewife to break the monotonous routine of cookery. 



General Supplies That Make Food Taste and Look Better 

THE housekeeper who is wise in her day and generation sees to it that the dishes 
she prepares are attractive in appearance and interesting in flavor. Flat- 
tasting food, prosaically served, is one of the chief causes of malnutrition so 
common among the adults and children of today. The following list will suggest 
some of the general supplies every cook should have who wants to place palata- 
ble, appetizing dishes before her family. 

SEASONINGS: Onion flavor (salt or extract), celery flavor (salt or extract), 
Worcestershire sauce, catsup or chili sauce, Kitchen Bouquet, salad dressing, 
pimientos (Spanish sweet pepper), meat extracts (page 4), and the usual spices 
and herbs (including bay-leaf and thyme) are indispensable. In addition, prepared 
mustard, horseradish, capers, chutneys, curry powder, chopped green relish, canned 
or dried mushrooms or mushroom powder will be most useful. 

FLAVORINGS AND GARNISHES: Besides a generous supply of flavoring ex- 
tracts, all or part of the following will be of use; shelled nuts, salted nuts, peanut 
butter, olives and pickles (page 3), dates and raisins, maraschino cherries, 
marshmallows, maple sirup (or extract), ginger (crytallized and preserved), coffee 
extract or powder, peppermint candies, candied fruits. 

GENERAL MATERIALS FOR COOKING: Milk (condensed, evaporated or 
dried), egg powder, shortening, gelatine and jelly powders, rennet or junket 
tablets, powdered and brown sugar and such staples as coconut, cocoa, chocolate and 
cornstarch. 

FRESH VEGETABLES IN SEASON: As lettuce, cabbage, green pepper, parsley, 
watercress, celery, radishes, cucumbers, tomatoes — one or more of these on hand 
will increase the possibilities of quick catering. They must of course be used 
before they deteriorate, and a new supply purchased to take their place. 



Certain articles frequently used in cooking can be prepared in free moments and 
packed away in bottles or glass jars, ready for immediate use in emergencies. 
Among these are: bread or cracker crumbs; grated cheese; dried parsley; chopped 
nuts; a mixture of cinnamon (1 tablespoon) and sugar (2 tablespoons); dates 
pitted and cut into pieces; ginger, figs and raisins cut into small pieces; caramel 
sirup; sugar sirup (see page 13). 

Note: — Catsups, pickles, sauces and salad dressing used wherever possible 
simplify the process of seasoning as they are already highly seasoned. 



Quick Appetizers and Relishes for Giving Style to a Meal 

ALL the foods listed here you can purchase anywhere. There are many others, 
too. which you will find on the shelves of large, well-stocked grocery stores. 

PICKLES AND RELISHES: As olives (plain, stuffed or ripe) gherkins, onions, 
mixed pickles, mustard pickles, chopped relish. 

SAUCES : As catsups, chutneys and chili, Worcestershire, tabasco, cocktail sauces. 

FRUITS: As canned and maraschino cherries, pineapple, apricots; pickled and 
spiced fruit for fruit cocktails. 

FISH : As sardines, anchovies, fish pastes, fish roe, smoked herring, lobster, crab, 
shrimps, tuna fish, oysters, clams. 

MEATS : As canned, potted and deviled ham, tongue and chicken ; bologna 
sausages. 

CHEESE : As pimiento, chili, Neufchatel, American, cream, Imperial. 

GREEX SALAD VEGETABLES: In season— as tomato, cucumber, radishes, 
celery, water-cress, cabbage, green pepper. 

Appetizers, or hors-d'ceuvres, or canapes taste as good as they look and add the 
element of novelty to a meal. Guests will be sure to appreciate them served 
as the first course for luncheon, supper or dinner. 

These delicate morsels can be quickly prepared from eggs, cheese and all 
kinds of canned meat, chicken and fish. Serve canned shell fish in cocktail glasses 
with a prepared cocktail sauce. Be sure it is icy cold. Savory creamed meats, 
fish, chicken or mushrooms served piping hot on toast, in scallop shells or ramekins, 
are delicious. 

A small serving of salad on a lettuce leaf makes a good beginning — meat, fish, 
chicken, deviled egg or mixed vegetables with mayonnaise. Tomato, cucumbers and 
cabbage thinly sliced are served with French dressing. 

Garnishings for this type of dish are simple and quick. Thin slices of lemon, 
strips of pimiento, beets cut in cubes, capers, pickles and olives — in short anything 
offering a pleasing color and flavor — make an appeal to the appetite. 

The imaginative cook will see possibilities for appetizers in almost any food. 
The main requirement is plenty of seasoning to produce a savory, piquant effect. 
Left-over bits in the refrigerator can be used to advantage. 



Five Simple Appetizers 

Recipe 1— GRILLED SARDINES: Cut Bread in thin oblongs. Place a Sardine, 
split through the center, on each slice, the split side up. Sprinkle with Paprika, 
brown under broiler. Garnish with slice of Lemon and sprig of Parsley. 

Recipe 2— SHRIMP CANAPE: Cut 6 slices Bread (graham, white, or . whole 
wheat) in pretty shapes and brown in fat. Pick apart x / 2 cup Shrimps and mix with 

2 tablespoons Tomato Cat up, 2 tablespoons Vinegar and 1 tablespoon Paprik\. 
Spread on bread, sprinkle generously with grated Parmesan or American Cheese 
and brown under flame or in oven. Serve hot, garnish with Parsley. 

Recipe 3— TONGUE CANAPE : Toast 6 thin slices of Bread, cut in pretty shapes. 
Butter and cover with y 2 cup Potted or Deviled Tongue moistened with 2 
teaspoons Vinegar. Garnish with Chopped Relish and Parsley or Stuffed 
Oltve in center. Other meat and fish preparations may be substituted if properly 
seasoned. 

Recipe 4— CRAB COCKTAIL: Mix 2 cups Crab Meat with Y± cup prepared 
Cocktail Sauce. Chill thoroughly and serve in sherbet glasses with crackers. 
Shrimps, clams, oysters and scallops can be served as cocktails. Cocktail Sauce 
already mixed can be purchased in bottles. 

Recipe 5— CHEESE APPETIZER: Cut 6 slices of Bread % inch thick. Spread 

3 slices with 1 tablespoon Prepared Mustard, covered with 1 cup grated Cheese 
(or slices % inch thick) and season with Salt and Paprika. Cover with slices of 
bread. Toast in oven or over the flame until both sides are golden brown and the 
cheese melted. Cut in triangles, garnish with spiced Gherkins. 



Where Soups Come In 

NUTRITIOUS, fine-flavored soups of almost any variety can be purchased in 
cans. Among the most popular that are carried at practically all grocers are : 

CLEAR SOUPS: As bouillon, consomme, clam. 

VEGETABLE CREAM SOUPS : As asparagus, bean, celery, pea, tomato. 

MEAT AND VEGETABLE THICK SOUPS: As beef, ox tail, mock turtle, chicken 
gumbo, clam chowder, vegetable. 

EXTRACTS (cube, paste or liquid) : As bouillon, chicken, clam, vegetable. 

You will do well to kee t several cans of your favorite soups always in the housr. 
Not only are they wonderful savers of labor but they are a boon in emergencies to 
eke out an otherwise slim meal. 

Ready-to-serve soups usually need to be diluted with water or milk. Adapt thern 
to the taste of your family by adding seasoning if you think it necessary. For 
variety you can combine canned soups of different flavors as pea and bouillon, 
chicken and celery, beef and tomato. A last-minute substantial soup can be 
produced from left-overs of meat, vegetables, rice or macaroni by adding them 
to canned beef bouillon ; simmer for fifteen minutes. 



Creamed soups which the housewife can evolve from canned vegetables (pea, 
spinach, corn, lima bean and so forth) are quickly made and too familiar to 
require directions here. They are especially good in cold weather or for meals at 
which cold meat or no meat at all is served. Baked beans (or other canned beans) 
cooked with an equal quantity of water and seasoned, make a delicious bean 
chowder. 

Seasonings for soups are : celery and onion flavor, catsup, Worcestershire sauce, 
Kitchen Bouquet, meat extracts, dried parsley and bay leaf. To use these most 
successfully, they should be simmered in the soup for twenty to thirty minutes. 
This is especially important in the case of dried parsley and bay leaf. 

With a variety of canned goods on the shelves and plenty seasonings, a 
dainty company soup or a hearty family dish is quickly forthcoming. Individual 
servings may be topped off with whipped cream or sprinkled with chopped parsley 
or grated cheese. Croutons or crisp crackers are usually served with this course. 

For other uses of canned soups see pages 7, 8, 9. 

Soups, Home-Made But Time-Saving 

Recipe 6— CREAM OF CONSOMME : Melt 4 tablespoons Butter or fat, add 4 
tablespoons Flour. When bubbling add 3 cups Canned Consomme and 1 cup 
Milk gradually, stirring constantly. Season with Onion and Celery and color 
with Kitchen Bouquet. Milk may be omitted and more consomme used, with 
Tomato Catsup for seasoning. 

Recipe 7— OYSTER SOUP: Melt 6 tablespoons Butter. Add 3 tablespoons 
Flour. When bubbling, add gradually 2 cups scalded Milk, stirring constantly 
until well blended. Add 1 can (2 cups) Raw Oysters, the Oyster Liquor, 3 drops 
Tabasco Sauce, 1 teaspoon Salt, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce. Cook 
5-10 minutes. Serve hot with oyster crackers. 

Recipe 8— JELLIED BOUILLON: Soak V/ 2 tablespoons Gelatine in l / 2 cup 
cold Water, then dissolve in 2> l / 2 cups hot Bouillon (made with cubes, extracts or 
liquid), previously seasoned with Bay Leaf, Onion, Celery, Salt and Pepper, 
Set in cool place until jellied. Cut lightly with fork and heap in bouillon cups. 
From three to eight hours is required for the bouillon to stiffen, depending on 
temperature. If prepared in the morning it will be ready for the evening meal. 



Meat for the Main Dish 

PREPARED and semi-prepared meats mean freedom for the housewife. When 
you are too busy or too weary even to plan a meal consult your supply shelf 
for the best way out of your difficulty. Listed below are meats and fish, some 
or all of which you should keep always on hand. 

MEAT — Beef, corned beef, corned beef hash, dried beef, whole tongue (in glass 
or cans), bacon, Vienna sausage (frankfurters), veal loaf, beef stew, scrapple. 

FOWL: Boned chicken, turkey. 

FISH : Codfish flaked and shredded, salmon, tuna, crab, lobster, shrimps, clams, 
ovsters. codfish balls. 



You can make canned meats go farther by combining them with such foods as 
potatoes, rice, macaroni, bread or vegetables; thus making a more substantial and 
at the same time less expensive dish. For example, chicken can be creamed and 
served on toast or with rice; dried beef frizzled or creamed, can appear at the 
same meal with a hearty vegetable like lima beans; canned beef made savory with 
plenty of seasoning, *:an be supplemented with fried, left-over hominy. Such com- 
binations are hearty enough to satisfy hungry husbands and ravenous young sons. 

For a quick stew on a cold day empty a can of beef, one of vegetable soup 
and one of tomato soup into a stewpot and heat very hot. Or add the bits of 
left-over meat in the pantry to a can of vegetable soup and season with meat 
extract, catsup and Worcestershire sauce. Any left-overs judiciously combined 
with canned foods, seasoned and colored a rich appetizing brown with Kitchen 
Bouquet, appear on the table as a new and nourishing dish. 

Sauces and gravies, too, make a limited amount of meat seem like more. 
Here again canned tomato soup, bouillon cubes and beef extract are godsends. 
Dissolve the last two in boiling water, then thicken to the desired consistency. 
In summer, when the appetite revolts from the idea of hot, rich food use canned 
meat or left-overs in a meat mold (recipe 8, using 2 l / 2 tablespoons gelatine). It 
can be prepared in a few moments in the morning and will need only to be 
unmolded on your return from an afternoon's recreation. 

Eggs are always standbys in emergencies. They may form the main dish 
(hard-boiled in cream, curry or tomato sauce; baked in ramekins; or prepared 
as plain or fancy omelets) ; or they can be combined with vegetables (poached 
on spinach; or creamed with asparagus) or with meats (scrambled with dried beef 
or bacon or ham; or poached with corned-beef hash). 

Recipes to Follow or Adapt According to Your Needs 

Recipe 9— WHITE SAUCE: Melt 4 tablespoons Butter or Cooking Fat, add 4 
tablespoons Flour. When bubbling add 2 cups Milk gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook S minutes and add 1 teaspoon Salt and J4 teaspoon Pepper. (This 
makes a pint of white sauce.) 

Vary this plain white sauce by adding onion or celery flavor, prepared salad 
dressing (3 tablespoons), tomato catsup (4 tablespoons), Worcestershire sauce 
(2 tablespoons), dry mustard (2 teaspoons), curry powder (1 tablespoon\ 
horseradish (4 tablespoons), olives (6 tablespoons), pimiento (4 tablespoons), 
green pepper (5 tablespoons), capers (2 tablespoons), grated cheese (1 cup), 
meat extract (2 cubes or teaspoons). 

Note : Curry powder and mustard should be carefully mixed with the dry 
flour before combining with the melted fat. 

Recipe 10— CREAMED SALMON: To 1 pint White Sauce (recipe 9) add 2 
cups Salmon. Season with Onion Salt, Celery Salt and Paprika. To make 
escalloped salmon put into large or individual baking dishes, cover with crumbs and 
brown in oven. A layer of rice, macaroni or fluffy mashed potatoes will make the 
salmon go farther. 

The other fish listed at the beginning of this chapter, as well as chicken, 
hard-boiled eggs and dried beef can be used in this way, seasoning to taste. 

Recipe 11— CORNED BEEF HASH LOAF WITH TOMATO SAUCE: Turn out 
carefully the contents of 2 cans Corned-Beef Hash (medium size) on a greased 
pan. Cover with strips of bacon and bake in oven until brown. Make sauce (for 
method see recipe 9) with 2 tablespoons Fat, 2 tablespoons Flour, and 1 can of 



Tomato Soup to which enough water has been added to make 2 cups. Season 
with Worcestershire Sauce and Chopped Relish. Pour around hash and garnish 
with parsley. If you prefer, the hash may be formed into balls before cooking. 

Recipe 12— LOBSTER NEWBURG: Make White Sauce of 4 tablespoons Fat, 
4 tablespoons Flour and \y± cups Milk (for method see recipe 9). Add 2 Egg 
Yolks, beaten, l / 2 teaspoon Salt, % teaspoon Paprika, l 1 /. cups Ginger Ale 
and 2 medium-sized cans Lobster (about 2 1 /. cups). Serve on toast or crackers. 
Cream substituted for milk gives a richer flavor. Crab and shrimps Newburg 
are also very good. 

Recipe 13— HAM WITH CURRANT SAUCE: Make a sauce (for method see 
recipe 9) of 2 tablespoons Fat, 2 tablespoons Flour, \ l / 2 cups Water, 1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire Sauce and 3 tablespoons Currant Jelly. Add six thin slices 
of ham. Heat thoroughly and serve, garnishing with parsley. Tongue is equally 
delicious with this sauce. 

Recipe 14— CURRIED DRIED BEEF: Make sauce (for method see recipe 9) 
of 3 tablespoons Fat, 3 tablespoons Flour mixed with 1 tablespoon Curry 
Powder, 2 cups Water. Add 2 tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce, dash Onion 
flavor and 2 cups Dried Beef (8 oz. jar). If beef is salty place in a colander 
and run hot water over it. Serve on toast or rice, garnished with parsley. 

Recipe IS— CODFISH FLAKE CUSTARD : Pick apart 1 cup Fish Flakes. Add 
J4 cup finely sifted cracker or bread Crumbs, 1 teaspoon Paprika, dash Cayenne. 
Beat 2 Eggs, and V/ 2 cups Milk and combine with fish. Bake in buttered 
ramekins in moderate oven until firm. Serve in ramekins or turn out and serve 
with tomato sauce. Other fish may be substituted. 



Vegetables for the Main Dish 

FOR supper and luncheon you can often fall back on canned vegetables for a 
quick main dish if you enrich them just a bit. Among the vegetables to be 
found in any grocery store are: Asparagus, beans (string, lima, kidney), beets, 
corn, peas, sauerkraut, spinach, squash, sweet potato, succotash, tomato, baked 
beans, spaghetti with sauce. 

The simplest ways of making canned vegetables more hearty are: (1) serving 
with white sauce, seasoned to suit the vegetable; (2) escalloping with crumbs and 
sometimes cheese — a method particularly good for tomatoes, corn and succotash ; 
(3) as vegetable stew, combining one can each of tomatoes, corn and lima beans 
with proper seasonings. 

Limited space forbids the giving of many recipes here, but the few we are 
able to print will give you ideas for working out wholesome and savory com- 
binations of your own. 

Four Appetizing Ways of Serving Vegetables 

Recipe 16— CREAMED VEGETABLES ON TOAST :— Make a White Sauce (for 
method see recipe 9) with 5 tablespoons Fat, 5 tablespoons Flour, 1 cup Milk 
and 1 cup Water. Add 2 cans Vegetable Soup. Season to taste with Onion and 



Celery Flavor, Worcestershire Sauce or Catsup. If necessary-, color to an ap- 
petizing brown with a teaspoon of Kitchen Bouquet. Serve on hot toast. Tomato, 
pea, celery and corn soups can be thickened and served as above. Left-over 
vegetables can also be used by flavoring with meat extract. 

Recipe 17— CORN PUDDING: Empty 1 can Corn (No. 2) into a dish. Add 2 
Eggs, 1 teaspoon Salt, J4 teaspoon Onion Salt, % teaspoon Pepper, V/ 2 table- 
spoons Fat melted. Beat with egg-beater until well mixed. Add 1 pint Milk 
and mix thoroughly. Pour into large or individual baking dishes, sprinkle with 
paprika and bake in a very slow oven until firm. A layer of coarsely chopped 
ham on the bottom of the dish gives a delightful flavor. 

Recipe 18— SPAGHETTI RAGOUT: Empty 1 can of Spaghetti (medium size) and 
1 can Thick Meat Soup (oxtail, mulligatawny or mock turtle) into a baking dish. 
Add seasoning if necessary. Cover with crumbs and brown in oven. 

Recipe 10— BAKED BEANS AND BACON : Empty 1 large can Baked Beans into 
a baking dish, seasoning if necessary. Cover the top with slices of Bacon. Cook in 
the oven until bacon is crisp. Serve with a relish. A few very thin slices of 
onion added before covering with the bacon gives a fine, savory flavor. 



When Salad Saves the Day 

INSURE your peace of mind by keeping always in the house materials for mak- 
ing salad. A plate of cool, inviting salad saves the day when all other plans go 
awry, or you feel the need for a free afternoon. Even when you run out of let- 
tuce or other greens you can still prepare a refreshing salad if you have some 
of the following canned and bottled articles on hand : 

SALAD DRESSINGS: mayonnaise, and cooked, (in bottles). 

VEGETABLES: canned asparagus tips, string beans, kidney beans, small limas, 
beets, peas, spinach. 

FRUITS: canned pineapple, pears, cherries (white and red), apricots, peaches. 

MEATS and FISH: canned chicken, salmon, tuna fish, lobster, crab, shrimp, 
lam and tongue. 

CHEESE: pimiento, cream, snappy, chili, roquefort, (in jars, boxes, or tin foil 
wrappers). 

The inventive genius with which the homemaker is born, or which necessity- 
thrusts upon her, will create salad combinations by the dozen. 

When canned meats, chicken or fish are used, make them go farther and taste 
better by mixing them with other materials. For example, the following salads 
are successful : — chicken with hard-boiled eggs, pimiento, a few capers and mayon- 
naise; lobster, crab or shrimp with cold boiled rice, olives and mayonnaise; 
coarsely chopped tongue with string beans, small beets and salad dressing to 
which a tiny bit of prepared mustard has been added; beef with diced carrots, 
peas and salad dressing to which horseradish has been added. Meat or vegetables 
will go farther and be very attractive if added to tomato jelly salad (recipe 21) 
or to jellied bouillon (recipe 8, using iy 2 tablespoons gelatine). 



The success of a salad depends largely on the dressing and garnishing. A good 
salad dressing can be used as it comes from the bottle, or it can be given variety 
by the addition of other seasonings (see recipe 20). Use a bit of parsley, pimiento, 
olive, cherry or a few capers just for looks. 

It is possible to buy lettuce in most localities a large part of the year, but 
thinly sliced cabbage makes a good substitute when lettuce is not available. 

Easy Salads to Prepare 

Recipe 20— SPECIAL SALAD DRESSING: Bottled mayonnaise, or boiled salad 
dressing can be varied by adding to it tomato catsup, chopped pimiento, chopped 
green pepper, drained chili sauce, capers, horseradish, Worcestershire sauce, chop- 
ped olives, chopped nuts, minced onion, drained chopped relish, prepared mustard, 
celery salt or extract, and whipped cream. 

Recipe 21— TOMATO JELLY SALAD: Soak 2 tablespoons Gelatine in y 2 cup 
cold Water, then dissolve in 1 can hot Tomato Soup to which enough water 
has been added to make 3 cups. Season with Worcestershire Sauce (1 table- 
spoon), Onion and Celery Flavor. Pour into individual molds and chill until 
jellied. Serve on Lettuce with Salad Dressing. If you need the salad in a hurry 
use 3 tablespoons gelatine. 

Recipe 22— KIDNEY BEAN SALAD: Shred l / 2 lb. Cabbage and mix with 1 can 
(medium size) Kidney Beans. Add % cup Salad Dressing. Garnish 
with Olives and Parsley. This salad is substantial enough for the principal dish 
for supper. Baked beans also are popular as a salad. 

Recipe 23— DEVILED EGG SALAD : Cut 6 hard-boiled Eggs in half lengthwise. 
Remove yolks. To Yi the yolks add 1 small can Deviled Ham or Tongue, 2 
tablespoons Vinegar and mix to smooth paste. Fill whites with this mixture. 
Arrange on Lettuce, garnish with the remaining yolks, chopped fine, and Capers. 
Serve with Salad Dressing. This makes a hearty salad suitable for the main dish 
for luncheon or supper. 

Recipe 24— APRICOT and CHEESE SALAD: Mix y 2 cup Cheese (pimiento, 
chili or cream) with 2 tablespoons chopped Relish and mold in the hollow of 12 
halves of Apricots (canned). Garnish with 6 stuffed Olives cut in halves. Ar- 
range 2 apricot halves on Lettuce and place Salad Dressing at one side. 



Desserts to Please Every Taste 

OF ALL easy conjuring tricks, none is quite so simple for the housewife, as 
to whisk an instantaneous dessert on to the table. Stock your shelves with 
some or all of the following articles, then rest secure in the knowledge that 
you can meet any emergency. 

FRUITS : dates, raisins, figs, preserved and canned fruits. 
SPREADS: jams, jellies, honey. 
NUTS: in shells, shelled, salted. 

9 



CHEESE : Roquefort, Camembert, Imperial. 

CAKE : fancy crackers and cookies, fruit cake. 

PUDDINGS: plum and fig puddings. 

PREPARED MIXTURES: jelly powders (fruit and wine flavors), pudding 
powders, pie fillings (mince meat, lemon cream and so forth), cake flour. 

ACCESSORIES: marshmallow cream; prepared icing in jars; candied cherries 
and violets; angelica; crystallized orange peel and ginger. 

No one who has dates, nuts and raising in the house is without dessert. Can- 
ned fruit can be glorified by sprinkling with chopped nuts and maraschino or 
candied cherries, or by placing it on fancy packaged cookies or cake, topping off 
the whole with whipped or marshmallow cream. Jam piled on toasted crackers 
with chopped salted nuts makes a good finish to a meal. Sweet crackers and fancy 
cookies can be made more elaborate with toasted marshmallows, or with marsh- 
mallow cream and chopped ginger, cherries or nuts. For many people, the most 
satisfactory dessert is just cheese and crackers with coffee. 

Prepared jelly powders take but a minute for actual preparation, although suf- 
ficient time must be allowed for them to stiffen. Sirup from your canned fruit, 
stiffened with plain gelatine (2 tablespoons gelatine for 1 quart juice) makes a 
delicious and wholesome dessert. A double quantity of gelatine makes the jelly 
stiffen more quickly. 

There are excellent prepared cake flours on the market containing flour, baking 
powder, salt, shortening, egg and milk. You need only stir these up with water 
and bake. Baked as cup cakes they make delicious cottage pudding to be served 
with any quick sauce. 

For frostings use quick frosting (recipe 29), marshmallow cream, or bottled 
icings according to directions. Another frosting is to cover the top of the cake 
with marshmallows; return to the oven to .melt them. 

Quick sauces for cakes and puddings can be made from marshmallow cream 
plain or flavored; and from thickened fruit juices. Maple and caramel sirups 
with chopped nuts make delicious sauces. If whipping cream happens to be on 
hand, a dessert can be made very attractive and appetizing. 

Do you like shortcake? Then try these quick ones. Turn to the recipe for 
drop biscuit (page 12), double the quality of shortening it calls for and bake. 
Split the cakes in halves, butter them and cover halves with canned or preserved 
fruit. Some kinds of packaged crackers can be used for shortcakes. 

Prepared pudding mixtures do away with assembling and measuring materials. 
A quick finish for them is to sprinkle a mixture of grated chocolate thickly over 
the top while the pudding is still hot. This forms a rich, inviting crust. 

Some of the familiar puddings are time savers if you make them in the morn- 
ing while you are washing the breakfast dishes. Among such are: junket, creamy 
rice pudding, Indian pudding, cornstarch and tapioca desserts and custards. Hot 
gingerbread is a general favorite which can be made quickly at the last moment. 

Clever Ways to Make Desserts Seem Elaborate 

Recipe 25— FRUIT COMPOTE: Cut V 4 cup Apricots and 9 Dates in small 
pieces and add to 1% cups shredded Pineapple. Heap in sherbet glasses and 
garnish with 3 tablespoons Marshmallow Cream which has been beaten with 
1 teaspoon Milk and % teaspoon Lemon Extract. Other fruits as plums, grapes, 
red and white cherries are delicious in compotes. 

10 



Recipe 26— APPLE WHIP: Add l /$ teaspoon Salt to 3 Egg Whites and beat 
until stiff. Add, a little at a time, 3 cups Apple Sauce sweetened and flavored 
with */i teaspoon Lemon Extract and grated Nutmeg to taste. Serve in sherbet 
glasses. A custard sauce made with yolks of the eggs may be poured over the 
top, if desired. Other fruit pulp may be used, or jam (^4 cup to 3 egg whites). 

Recipe 27— LIGHTNING CAKE: Sift together V/ 2 cups Flour, 2 teaspoons 
Baking Powder, J4 teaspoon Salt and 1 cup Sugar into a mixing bowl. Melt 
;4 cup Shortening in a measuring cup, break in 2 Eggs, fill cup with Milk and 
add 1 teaspoon Almond Extract. Stir the liquids into the flour and beat until 
well mixed and light. Bake in a moderate oven. This may be baked in layers 
and served as a cocoanut or banana layer cake (for frosting see recipe 29). 

Recipe 28— CHOCOLATE COCONUT CAKES: Sift together 2 cups Prepared 
Flour, 2 tablespoons Sugar, 3 tablespoons Cocoa. Add 1/3 cup Coconut, 1 cup 
Milk or water and beat well. Bake in muffin tins. Cover with frosting and 
sprinkle coconut over the top. 

Recipe 29 — QUICK FROSTING : Mix to thick paste 1 cup Confectioner's Sugar, 
2 tablespoons Water and 2 teaspoons Lemon or Almond Extract. Spread on 
cake. Grated chocolate, finely chopped raisins, nuts and coconut may be added 
to give a different flavor. Ginger sirup (2 tablespoons) can replace the extract 
and part of the water. 

Recipe 30— PUDDING SAUCES: (a) Whip into 3 stiffly beaten Egg Whites 
Yz cup Powdered Sugar, % teaspoon Salt, 1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract. Add 
gradually 1 cup Boiling Water and serve at once. 

(b) Melt 1 cup Currant Jelly with 1% cups Water. Add 2 tablespoons 
Lemon Juice. 

Recipe 31— QUICK CHERRY COBBLER: Strain fruit of 1 can Red Cherries 
(2 cups) from sirup. Put fruit in greased baking dish. Sift 2 cups Prepared 
Cake Flour and mix with 2/3 cup Water. Beat well and pour over fruit. Bake 
in a moderate oven 20-30 minutes. Serve with sauce made from thickened cherry 
sirup and flavored with lemon extract. 

Recipe 32— MAPLE NUT PUDDING: Dissolve VA cups Brown Sugar in 2 
cups Boiling Water, using double boiler. Mix 1/3 cup Cornstarch in 1/3 cup 
Cold Water, add to sirup. Cook for 8 minutes, stirring constantly until thick 
and smooth. Add % teaspoon Salt to 2 Egg Whites, beat until stiff and pour 
the hot mixture on, gradually. Add V 2 cup chopped Nuts. Serve very cold with 
cream or custard sauce. 



Who Doesn't Like Hot Breads? 



PROBABLY your family likes hot breads. Most families do ! We hope you'll 
find a few practical suggestions here for further pampering of that already 
pampered family of yours — but with less effort to yourself than heretofore 
Prepared products which help to shorten labor are : 



SUBSTITUTES for BREAD: crackers oi all kinds, bran biscuits, zweiback 
and rusks. 

PREPARED FLOURS: for pancakes, for muffins, biscuits, and so forth. 

The easiest breakfast bread is toast — especially if made with an electric toaster 
on the table. Bread sliced or pulled apart (pulled bread) and browned in the 
oven requires less watching than when toasted over the direct flame. Rusks and 
zweiback require only heating. 

You can have quick hot breads for breakfast either by partly combining the 
ingredients the night before (flour, salt, baking powder) or by using prepared 
flour. Prepared pancake flour is excellent for pancakes. One brand baked in a 
shallow pan makes a good corn bread. Other prepared flours for general use 
contain baking powder and salt and save time of measuring and sifting. These 
are especially useful for making biscuits and muffins. 

Give variety to muffins and biscuits by adding raisins, dates or coconut. For 
luncheon, tea and supper, grated cheese or peanut butter added to the biscuit- 
mixture makes a delightful surprise with little work. 



Quick Hot Breads 

Recipe 33 — DROP BISCUIT: Mix 3 cups Prepared Flqur, 3 tablespoons Short- 
ening and 1% cups Milk into a dough that will drop without spreading. Drop 
by teaspoons on a greased pan. Bake in a hot oven. Note: Liquid shortening 
should be mixed with the milk ; solid shortening should be cut into the flour. 

Recipe 34— QUICK COFFEE CAKE : Mixed 2 cups Prepared Flour, 3 tablespoons 
Shortening and 1 cup Milk. Beat thoroughly. Add % cup Raisins. Spread 
on greased tin and sprinkle a mixture of 1 tablespoon Cinnamon and 2 tablespoons 
Sugar over the top. Bake in moderate oven. 

Recipe 35— QUICK LOAF BREAD: Mix into a soft dough 4 cups Prepared 
Flour, 4 tablespoons Shortening and l J /j cups Milk. More milk may be needed, 
depending on the flour. Bake in a greased loaf-pan 25-35 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 1 cup chopped nuts, raisins, or currants may be added to the dough. 

Recipe 36 — TOASTS: Toast slices of Bread a golden brown (a) Butter and 
sprinkle with Cinnamon Sugar (page 3) and return to oven to melt the sugar. 
Serve for breakfast or afternoon tea. (b) Butter and spread with hot or cold 
Fruit Sauce, as apple, peach, red cherries and so forth, serving l / 2 cup sauce to 
1 slice toast. Serve for breakfast or as a luncheon dessert, (c) Cover with 
melted Cheese or Welsh rarebit. Serve for luncheon or supper with pickles. Note : 
In some parts of the country, Welsh rarebit can be purchased in cans ready for 
serving. 

Recipe 37 — CRACKERS: (a) Sprinkle grated unsweetened Chocolate on Salt- 
ines, place a Marshmallow on each and brown under the flame, (b) Mix 
chopped Nuts and Ginger with Marshmallow Cream and spread on Vanilla 
Wafers, (c) Spread Butter Thin Crackers with thick Salad Dressing. Sprinkle 
with grated Cheese and a dash of Paprika. Toast in hot oven until cheese is 
melted, (d) Mix Fish Paste, such as Anchovy with Chopped Relish or Stuffed 
Olives and spread on Unsweetened Crackers. 

12 



Breakfast Fruits and Cereals 

TODAY it is not necessary for the homemaker "to arise while it is yet night" 
in order to prepare a satisfying, inviting breakfast for her family. She 
cooks her cereal the night before in the double-boiler or puts it in the tireless 
cooker, so that in the morning she has nothing to do but heat it. Or else she 
uses one of several excellent dry cereals. Her fruit, too, is made ready the day 
before. If for any reason she has been prevented from doing this she falls back 
on that well-stocked supply shelf of hers. Some of the popular breakfast fruits 
and cereals which can be procured almost anywhere are : 

FRUITS: canned apple sauce, apricots, rhubarb; dried prunes, apricots, apples, 
peaches (require soaking overnight). 

SPREADS: apple butter, orange marmalade, jams. 

DRY CEREALS : shredded wheat, puffed rice and wheat, cornflakes, grape- 
nuts. 

QUICKLY COOKED CEREALS: farina, cream of wheat, rice, quick oat- 
meals. 

For a change try cooking or serving fruit and cereal together for breakfast. 
Chopped dates, raisins, figs and prunes can be added to any cooked cereal. Canned 
fruits are attractive with such ready-to-serve foods as shredded wheat and 
grape-nuts. 

Toast accompanied by preserves and jams offers another quick way of serving 
fruit. 

With forethought, there can be enough left-over cooked cereal from one day 
to slice and brown in the pan for breakfast the next day. Serve with sirup. 



Quick Beverages 

WHEN callers "drop in" in the afternoon or evening, don't you often wish 
you had some light refreshment to offer them? A few modest purchases and 
a little planning will enable you to refresh your guests with a cool drink in sum- 
mer and to cheer them with a hot one in winter. 

Among the products that are useful for concocting quick beverages are : 

FRUIT JUICES: grape (red and white), loganberry, apple, pineapple, lime, 
cider, raspberry, strawberry. 

SPARKLING DRINKS : ginger ale, Apollinaris water, vichy. 

COCOA and CHOCOLATE: instant powders. 

COFFEE : instantaneous powders and extracts, cereal coffee powders. 

If a bottle of concentrated sugar sirup (made by boiling equal quantities of 
sugar and water for 10 minutes and bottling hot) is kept on hand, cold drinks 
can be easily and quickly sweetened. Lime juice, which can be purchased in 
bottles, will often replace lemon juice and saves the trouble of squeezing the 
fruit. Fresh mint is a great addition to many drinks. 

The use of prepared cocoas and of coffee powders and extracts is a great con- 
venience when company drops in unexpectedly, and you do not want to stay 
away from them a moment longer than is necessary. 

Evaporated milk makes hot drinks rich and palatable. 

13 



Unusual Drinks Made in a Moment 

Recipe 38— PINEAPPLE RICKEY: Mix 2 cups Grated Pineapple and juice 
with 2 tablespoons Lime Juice and 2 cups Carbonated Water (1 pint). Serve 
with cracked ice. Juices left from canned fruit can be combined for this drink. 

Recipe 39— FRUIT PUNCH: Mix y 2 pint Pineapple Juice, ]/ 2 pint Grape 
Juice, 1 pint Ginger Ale, j / 2 pint Sugar Sirup and 1 quart Water. Pour over 
cracked Ice in punch bowl. 

Recipe 40— GINGER ALE PUNCH: Keep on ice 1 pint White Grape Juice and 
1 quart Ginger Ale. Open and mix when ready to serve. 

Recipe 41 — MINT CUP: Crush 12 sprays of Mint and place in a pitcher with 
1 pint cracked Ice. Add 1 pint Loganberry Juice, 2 teaspoons Lime Juice and 
1 quart Carbonated Water. Serve at once. 

Recipe 42— CHERRY FRAPPE : Fill each sherbet glass }i full of shaved Ice and 
pour over it 3 tablespoons Cherry Juice or light sirup from any canned fruit. Serve 
immediately. 

Recipe 43 — CAFE AU LAIT: Boil ^ cup ground Coffee in 5 cups Water for 
6 minutes. Add 1 cup Evaporated Milk and let simmer 2 minutes. Strain and 
serve. 

Recipe 44 — QUICK CHOCOLATE : For each cup, dissolve 1 tablespoon sweetened 
Chocolate or Prepared Cocoa in 1 cup hot Milk. Serve with 1 tablespoon 
Whipped Cream or 2 Marshmallows in each cup. 



Menus That Really Save Time and Work 

THE following menus are merely suggestions for well-balanced meals which 
can be prepared quickly. They may fit your needs just as they stand; on the 
other hand there may be reasons why you cannot use them without change. Do 
not hesitate to adapt them in any way you think best, so long as you bear in 
mind the general rules of wise nutrition. 

You can make any of these menus more elaborate by adding an extra course — 
an appetizer, soup or salad — or you can serve relishes, hot breads, salted nuts, 
candies to give the meal a more festive appearance. 

In any event it will be helpful to select two or three menus which are suited 
to your family's needs, both when alone and when entertaining guests, and to 
keep them for ready reference. Of course, the supplies necessary for their prepara- 
tion should always be on your pantry shelf. 

Breakfast 

Stewed apricots and prunes, hash balls (recipe 11 omitting sauce), drop biscuit 
C recipe 33), coffee. 



Raisins and cream of wheat, bacon, cinnamon toast (recipe 36), coffee. 

14 



Creamed codfish (recipe 9), pulled bread (page 12), jam, coffee. 



Canned rhubarb, sausages, pancakes with sirup, coffee. 



Sliced banana with toasted cornflakes, quick coffee cake, coffee. 



Dinner 

Vegetable soup, ham with currant sauce (recipe 13), boiled rice, apple whip 
(recipe 26), wafers, coffee. 



Spaghetti ragout (recipe 18), rolls, vegetable salad with cheese, fruit cobbler 
(recipe 31 ), coffee. 



Fish flake custard (recipe IS), baked potato, celery or relish, plum pudding 
with sauce, coffee. 



Chicken soup, baked beans (recipe 19), stewed tomatoes, brown bread, cottage 
pudding (page 10) with fruit sauce, coffee. 



Corned beef with tomato sauce (recipe 11), sweet potatoes saute, buttered 
string beans, loganberry gelatine (page 10), packaged sweet crackers, coffee. 



Luncheon or Supper 

Cream of tomato soup with saltines, apricot cheese salad (recipe 24), chocolate 
coconut cakes (recipe 28), hot tea. 



Oxtail soup, spaghetti and cheese, white bread, fruit compote (recipe 25) and 
cookies (packaged), hot or iced tea. 



Cheese appetizer (recipe 5), escalloped succotash and tomato, whole wheat 
bread, fruit toast (recipe 36), hot or iced tea. 



Sardine canape (recipe 1), kidney bean salad (recipe 22), graham bread, gela- 
tine from canned red cherries (page 10), packaged lady-fingers, hot tea. 



Curried dried beef (recipe 14) with boiled rice, chopped relish, dates and nuts, 
cafe au lait (recipe 43). 

15 



Sunday Night or Company Suppers 

Shrimp cocktail (recipe 4), jelly salad with chicken (page 8), quick muffins, cakes 
(recipe 27) with frosting (recipe 29), canned peaches, ginger ale punch (recipe 40). 



Sliced tongue, fresh vegetable salad, rolls, fruit toast (recipe 36b), iced or hot 
chocolate (recipe 44). 



Jellied tomato bouillon (recipe 8 plus tomato catsup), tuna fish salad, sod;; 
crackers, fresh fruit, shortcake (page 10), iced tea. 



Hors-d'oeuvres mixed (page 3) savory eggs in ramekins (creamed with salad 
dressing recipe 20), buttered toast, fruit compote (recipe 25), wafers, hot chocolate 
(recipe 44). 



Creamed chicken (recipe 9), drop biscuits (recipe 33), fruit salad (page 8), 
wafers (recipe 37), cafe au lait (recipe 43). 



Consomme, lobster Newburg (recipe 12), maple nut pudding (recipe 32), crack- 
ers (recipe 37b), hot tea. 

Evening Parties 

Chicken salad with wafers, macaroon gelatine (fruit flavor with macaroons 
and whipped cream), mint cup (recipe 41). 



Crab Newburg on toast (recipe 12), fancy cakes (recipe 28), hot chocolate 
(recipe 44). 



Sandwiches (deviled meat, cheese) fancy crackers (recipe 37), fruit punch 
(recipe 39). 



16 



McCall's Service Booklets 

Price 
Beauty for Every Woman. By Elsie Waterbury Morris, head of 
New York's smartest "beauty shop.'* Complete instructions for 
the care of skin, hair, hands and figure, giving, simply, the 
scientific principles which make the "new beauty" possible for 
every woman and girl. 10 cents 

A Group of Little Homes. Compiled by Robert Cummings 
Wiseman from plans designed by famous small-house architects. 
Twelve houses, with complete architectural plans. These houses 
suggests the harmony of proportion and convenience of arrange- 
ments which can be incorporated in small, inexpensive houses. 10 cents 

The Modern Home: How to Equip it with Mechanical Servants 
and Manage it Wisely. By Lillian Purdy Goldsborough. 
Labor-saving devices and methods to do the housework in a 
servantless home. 10 cents 

Time-Saving Cookery. Prepared by The House of Sarah Field 
Splint. Menus and recipes all specially originated for McCall 
readers, indicating how package and canned foods, bought at the 
neighborhood grocery, can be used to supply delightful, well- 
balanced, wholesome meals, and at the same time spare the 
home-cook both time and work. 10 cents 

What to Serve at Parties. Compiled by Lilian M. Gunn. Depart- 
ment of Foods and Cookery, Teacher's College, Columbia 
University, from her articles previously published in McCall's. 
Menus and special recipes for Luncheons, Dinners, Teas, Sup- 
pers, Bridal Breakfasts and Children's Parties. 10 cents 

Parties All The Year: One for every month. By Claudia M. 
Fitzgerald. Suggestions for rhymed invitations, games, contests, 
stunts, costumes, prizes, refreshments. 10 cents 

Entertaining Without a Maid. By Edna Sibley Tipton. Correct 
Table Service for Breakfast Parties, Luncheons, Teas, Recep- 
tions, Dinners, Sunday Night Suppers. 10 cents 

The Friendly Mother: A Book of Prenatal Mothercraft. 

Written by Helen Johnson Keyes and approved by Franklin 
A. Dorman, M. D., Head of the Maternity Division of The 
Woman's Hospital, New York City. A guide for the young 
mother during the long months before her baby comes. 10 cents 

Down the Garden Path. By Dorothy Giles, member of The 
Garden Club of America. Practical directions for flower and 
vegetable gardening. 10 cents 

To get the booklets, address (enclosing postage) The Service 
Editor, McCall's Magazine, 236 West 37th Street, New York 
City. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



012 822 421 A 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



012 822 421 ft 



