i 






3 

:rt- 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dietotherapychem02fitcuoft 



DIETOTHERAPY 



v\ 



DIETOTHERAPY 



NUTRITION AND 
DIET IN HEALTH 



BY 

WILLIAM EDWARD FITCH, M.D. 

• MAJOR MED. RES. CORP8, U. S. A. 

FORMERLY LECTURER ON SURGERY, FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDI- 
CINE; ASSISTANT ATTENDING GYNECOLOGIST PRESBYTERIAN DISPEN- 
SARY; ATTENDING PHYSICIAN TO THE VANDERBILT CLINIC, 
COLLEGE PHYS. & SURGS., NEW YORK CITY 



AND 

FORTY CONTRIBUTORS 



VOLUME II 




Uoo?^ 



S-^'. Q^ 



PUBLISHED WITH THE PERMISSION OF THE 
SURGEON GENERAL OF THE ARMY 



SECOND EDITION REVISED 



D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 

NEW YORK LONDON 

1922 






i i/.\ 



COPTRIOHT, 1918, 1922, BY 

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 



Printed in the United States of America 



CONTRIBUTORS TO VOLUME II 

A. L. BENEDICT, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P. 
Capt. Med. Res. Corps, U. S. A.; Consulting Gastro-Enterologist, Buffalo 

Hospital, Buffalo, N. Y. 



WILLIAM E. FITCH, M.D. 
Major Med. Res. Corps, U.S.A.; Editor Pediatrics, New York City 



H. S. GRINDLEY, B.S., Sc.D. 

Professor of Animal Nutrition, College of Agriculture, University of 

Illinois, Urbana, 111. 



WINFIELD S. HALL, B.S., M.S., M.D., Ph.D. 
Professor of Physiology, Northwestern University Medical School; Lec- 
turer on Dietetics, Mercy and Wesley Hospitals, Chicago 



H. LYONS HUNT, M.D., L.R.C.P. (Edin.) 

Capt. Med. Res. Corps, U.S.A.; Prof, of Medicine 

University Medical School, New York City 



GEORGE N. KREIDER, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.S. 
Captain Med. Res. Corps, U. S. Army 



H. EDWIN LEWIS, M.D. 
New York City 



A. BRUCE MACALLUM, A.B., M.D. 

Lecturer Biological Chemistry; Sen. Fel. in Medical Research, University 

of Toronto, Toronto, Ont. 



E. E. SMITH, Ph.D., M.D. 

Formerly Professor of Physiology and Biological Chemistry, Fordham 

University School of Medicine, New York City 



CONTENTS 



VOLUME II 

CHAPTER I 

FOOD PRESERVATION 
H. S. Grindley, B.S., Sc.D. 

Food Preservation 1 

Drying 2 

Smoking 2 

Salting . , 3 

Refrigeration 3 

Canning 6 

Treatment with Chemical Agents . 7 

CHAPTER II 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

H. Edwin Lewis, M.D. 

Value of Dehydration 9 

Application of Dehydration to Special Foods 12 

Desiccation of Milk 12 

Dehydration of Casein 17 

Dried Eggs , 17 

Preservation of Meat by Dehydration 18 

Dried Fish ' 20 

Dried Fruits 20 

Dehydrated Vegetables 32 

Success of Dehydration 46 

Economic Advantages 46 

CHAPTER III 

SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 
H. S. Grindlby, B.S., Sc.D. 

History of Cooking 49 

Principles of Scientific Cooking 51 

Varieties of Cookery 54 

Meat 55 

Fish 66 

Vegetable Foods 67 

Food Concentration 70 

CHAPTER IV 

HYGIENE OF EATING 

R61e of the Senses in the Pleasure of Eating . 75 

Effect of the Manner of Eating on Digestion 78 

Drinking of Water with Meals 88 

vii 



viii CONTENTS 

MOB 

Personal Idiosyncrasies 89 

Order and Frequency of Meals 90 

Sleep and Digestion 93 

Occupation and Digestion 94 

Variety and Diet 94 

Relation of Medication to Meals 96 

CHAPTER V 

VARIOUS FACTORS BEARING ON DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMI- 
LATION 

A. L. Benedict, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P. 

Transmutability and Reservation of Foods 99 

Waste and Digestibility of Foodstuffs 103 

Substitutes for Food 108 

Starvation and Inanition 109 

Fasting 112 

Perversion of Appetite 119 

CHAPTER VI 
OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

Superalimentation 127 

Overfeeding 128 

Overeating 129 

Effects of Overeating 135 

Metabolism of Overfeeding 138 

Convalescents 141 

Underfeeding 145 

Malificent Sequences of Underfeeding 148 

Metabolism of Underfeeding 153 

Pathology of Metabolism of Starvation 158 

Conclusions 163 

CHAPTER VII 

PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

Nature of Protein 167 

Metabolism of Protein 169 

Effect of Protein Diet on Health and Endurance 169 

Standard for Protein Requirement in Dietary 180 

High Versus Low Protein Diet 185 

Protein Structure and Properties 198 

Chemical Formation of Protein Fractions 198 

Physical Properties of Proteins 201 

Theories of Protein Metabolism 203 

CHAPTER VIII 

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES IN ANIMAL 

METABOLISM 

A. Bruce Macallum, A.B., M.D. 

Lipoids 217 

Nitrogenous Importance of Lipoids 217 

Lipoids in Metabolism 218 

Bio-electric PotentiaUty of Lipoids 219 



CONTENTS ix 

PAQE 

Vitamines .... * 219 

The Antineuritic or " B " Vitamine 220 

Physiological and Pharmacological Properties of Vitamines 227 

The Antirachitic or " A " Vitamine 229 

The Antiscorbutic or " C " Vitamine 232 

Vitamines in Foodstuffs 236 

R61e of Vitamines in Metabolism 241 



CHAPTER IX 
THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 
WiNFiELD S. Hall, B.S., M.S., Ph.D., M.D. 

Food as a Source of Heat and Growth 243 

Calculation of Fuel Values of Food 257 

Factors Governing the Amount of Food Required 265 

Regulations of Body Temperature 274 

CHAPTER X 
GENERAL NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

General Consideration 285 

Metabolism 286 

Anabolism and Catabolisra 286 

Metabolism Experiments 288 

Facts Which Affect Metabolism 295 

CHAPTER XI 
SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

Nitrogen in Diet ' 321 

Protein Metabolism 327 

Urea 327 

Ammonia 329 

Creatinin 329 

Uric Acid 329 

Purin Bodies 329 

Fat Free Diet 338 

Carbohydrate Free Diet 338 

Cellulose Free Diet 339 

Importance of Function of Mineral Elements 341 

Mineral Metabolism 341 

Electrolytic Properties of Salts 343 

Salt Free Diet 345 

Low and High Calcium Diets 349 

CHAPTER XII 

DIET IN HEALTH 

WiNFiELD S. Hall, B.S., M.S., Ph.D., M.D. 

General Principles 361 

Amount of Food Required 362 

Composition of Meals 366 

Various Influences of Diet 368 



t 



X CONTENTS 

PAGB 

Diet Studies of Various Classes of People • 374 

Use of Alcohol in the Diet 385 

Diet in Tropical Countries 386 

General Considerations 386 

Foodstuffs 389 

Alcohol and Beverages 401 



CHAPTER XIII 

DIET IN CRITICAL PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

Diet in Childhood . 409 

Early Childhood 410 

Diet for School Children 414 

Diet During Puberty 418 

Diet in Sedentary Occupations 421 

Diet Dm-ing Menstruation 425 

Diet During Pregnancy 425 

Diet During the Puerperium 428 

Diet During Lactation 429 

Diet Duiing the Menopause 432 

Diet During Old Age 433 



CHAPTER XIV 

HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 
William P. Cunningham, A.M., M.D. 

General Considerations 455 

Chronic Intestinal Stasis 458 

Diseases Due to Chronic Intestinal Stasis 460 

Considerations of Diet in Chronic Intestinal Stasis 464 

Hygiene of the Intestinal Canal 469 



CHAPTER XV 

PHYSIOLOGICAL REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING IN HEALTH 
William C. Hollopeter, A.M., M.D., LL.D, 

Breast Feeding 471 

Diet During Lactation 481 

Unsuccessful Nursing 484 

Lack of Uniformity in Breast Milk 487 

Deficiency in Breast Milk 487 

Artificial Feediing 489 

Cow's Milk 489 

Condensed Milk ' 499 

Butter Milk 500 

Peptonized Milk 501 

Sterilized Milk 502 

Pasteurized Milk 503 

Proprietary Foods : 504 

Rules Governing Home Modification 506 

Clinical Application of Artificial Feeding 509 

Intervals 511 

Percentages 611 

Fats 511 

Sugars 512 

Proteins 514 

Summary of Rules 515 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER XVI 
SPECIAL DIETS 
H. Lyons Hunt, M.D., L.R.C.S. and P. (Edinburgh), L.F.P. and S. (Glasgow) 

FAOB 

Vegetable Diet 520 

Meat Diet ,632 

Fruit Diet 540 

Tufnell and Bellingham Diets 547 

Weir Mitchell Diet 549 

Training Diet 552 

Reducing Diet . 559 

Diet for Professional Singers and Lecturers 560 

The Dry Cure 5S1 

The Yolk Cure 563 

Milk Cures 564 

CHAPTER XVII 
PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

General Considerations 577 

Recipes for the Preparation of Various Beverages and Foods 578 

CHAPTER XVIII 
ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 
George N. Kreider, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.S. 

United States Army Rations 663 

Rations for Boys' Military Camps 684 

Rations of Foreign Armies 697 

Diet in Prison Camps 718 

Conclusions Regarding the Composition and Food Value of the Military Ration . . . 722 

Navy Rations 724 

CHAPTER XIX 
FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

Food Situation in Germany 740 

Food Situation in Great Britain 747 

Use of Certain Foodstuffs in War 759 

Alcohol in War Economics ' 766 

Food Situation in the United States 768 

Index 775 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 
VOLUME II 

FIGURE PAGE 

1. — The Vegetables at the Right, when Dried, Will Have Only the Bulk of the 

Small Pile at the Left 38 

2. — The Bucket and Milk Bottles Contain the Water Extracted from this Box 

of Vegetables 38 

3. — This Barrel of Dehydrated Vegetables Represents Thirty Barrels of Green 

Vegetables 39 

4. — ^Atwater and Snell's Modification of Berthelot's Bomb Calorimeter 247 

5. — General View of the Respiration Calorimeter 289 

6. — Case X. Inflammatory, Superimposed upon Evolutionary Stasis 456 

7.— E. B., Female, 30, Single 457 

8. — J. S. Chronic Intestinal Stasis, with Very Broad Band Angulating Duo- 

deno-Jejunal .Junction 458 

9. — C. 0. Chronic Intestinal Stasis, with Marked Duodeno-Jejunal Kink, 

Causing Distention of Duodenum 459 

10.— Case V 462 

11. — (A) Band in which Stump of Tube and Ovary is Caught 465 

12. — Component Parts of a Day's Ration of the United States Soldier, which 

Represents a Food or Fuel Value of 4,199 Calories 682 

13. — Comparative Fuel Value of the Food Rations of the Soldiers of the Lead- 
ing Armies of the World 700 



DIETOTHERAPY 

VOLUME II 

NUTRITION AND DIET IN HEALTH 

CHAPTER I 

FOOD PRESERVATION 

H. S. Grindley, B.S., Sc.D. 



Methods of Food Preservation: Drying; Smoking; Salting; Freezing; 
Refrigeration; Sterilization; Exclusion of Air — Canning; Treatment 
with Antiseptic Agents. 



METHODS OF FOOD PRESERVATION 

The different methods of food preservation have of late years received 
much attention, for it is very largely due to the different processes of 
preserving food that it is possible to maintain large armies and navies in 
action and to permit of the aggregation of men in communities away 
from all immediate sources of food supply. It was originally thought that 
mere contact with the air was the prime cause of the decomposition of 
food, but experiments have proven that the great number of germs con- 
tained in even comparatively pure atmospheres are the real agents of 
putrefaction, rather than the air itself. The basis of all food preserva- 
tion depends upon the principle of preventing microorganisms present in 
the atmosphere from coming into contact with food to contaminate it. 
Since germs of putrefaction require a certain amount of moisture and 
heat for their growth, such foods as contain little water, and that are not 
kept too warm, are not so likely to undergo decomposition ; on the other 
hand, foods containing much water undergo fermentation very rapidly. 
Yeo(l) has suggested the following classification of the methods for 
preserving food products: 

1 



2 FOOD PRESERVATION 

(a) Drying (e) Refrigeration 

(b) Smoking (/) Sterilization 

(c) Salting (g) Exclusion of air — cann^.g 

(d) Freezing (h) Treatment with antiseptic 

chemical agents 

Drying. — Drying is the primitive method of preserving food. Of 
course, in this process a large proportion of water is extracted. Pemmi- 
can {see page 19) is a form of meat preserved by this method. At pres- 
ent this form of preserving food is limited mainly to fruits and vegetables, 
although, in some sections of the great West where excessively dry and 
clear atmospheres are found, meat may be hung in the open anywhere 
and be preserved by this method. Biltong, or dried beef, sometimes called 
"jerked beef," is kept by cutting it into thin slices and drying it in the 
sun for several days. Familiar instances of preservation of fruits by this 
method are found in raisins, figs, dates, prunes, dried apples and peaches, 
used also for some vegetables such as lima beans, okra, corn, etc. Desic- 
cated meats and vegetables, used largely for making soups, have the ad- 
vantage of being easily transported and at the same time of producing 
nutritious food. (See Volume II, Chapter II, Dehydration.) 

Smoking. — Smoking is the preservation of meat or fish by means of 
volatilized creosote and other substances developed from wood smoke, 
which have an antiseptic action. This process of preserving meat is prin- 
cipally applied to beef, tongue, ham and bacon. The meat, on being 
slaughtered, is first put down in salt for several days ; it is then taken up 
and hung in a chamber or confined "smokehouse," and a saturated wood 
fire is started. This fire is usually made of green wood and scraps of 
leather thrown on the top to add to the smoke. 

The creosote rising from the wood during combustion closes the pores 
of the meat to some extent, thereby excluding air-containing bacteria. 
Juniper berries and fragrant woods are sometimes put into the fire to give 
additional flavor. In North Carolina and Virginia, the famous "Smith- 
field hams" and bacons are cured by being smoked as above for a time and 
then taken down and the fleshy part of the meat rubbed over with sugar, 
pepper and other condiments. Then saltpeter, which acts as an antiseptic, 
is rubbed well into the flesh, and the meat is laid on a bench for a few 
days and afterwards hung and smoked again. Later it is washed and 
dried, and again exposed to the fumes of the "smokehouse." The outer 
surface of meat, such as ham or bacon, preserved by smoking, becomes con- 
siderably drier and tougher than the interior, but the latter is not made 
especially tough by the smoking if it was originally tender. Well-smoked 
bacon sliced thin and thoroughly cooked is a very digestible form of fatty 



METHODS OF FOOD PRESERVATION 3 

food. The digestibility of hams is also enhanced by the smoking process. 
In some instances the process of smoking is applied largely to the preserva- 
tion of fish, and their digestibility and flavor are not impaired by smoking. 

Salting — The salting of food as an, agency of preservation is a 
method that has been practiced for many centuries. In this way, meat 
and fish are easily preserved. Salted meat usually becomes pale from the 
action of the salt upon the hemoglobin contained in the blood vessels of 
the muscle fiber. The addition of a little salpeter prevents the meat from 
becoming pale by preserving the original reddish color of salted meat. 

Freezing. — Freezing is a method of preserving food which necessitates 
immediate cooking after thawing, to prevent decomposition. Excepting 
milk and cream, foods are not easily eaten in an actual frozen state, ex- 
cept by the northern Eskimos, who prefer their meat in that form. Meat 
and fish may be kept for considerable periods of time frozen in blocks of 
ice without losing much in flavor, but vegetables are not as good when 
cooked after being frozen. Meat which has been frozen is much better 
cooked by roasting than boiling, unless it has been imperfectly thawed, 
in which case the central portion may remain frozen after the external 
layers have begun to cook, and when very large cuts are cooked by roasts 
ing, the inside, on being cut into, may be found almost raw. Frozen meat 
loses about 10 per cent of its nutritive value in cooking. 

Refrigeration. — The preservation of meat by refrigeration or cold 
storage has in the past few years practically revolutionized the meat trade. 
This method of preserving meat has enabled cargoes to be brought from 
distant countries through equatorial regions not much the worse for the 
voyage. Slaughtering and refrigeration go on all the year round at the 
great slaughtering houses in this country, and the tables of both rich and 
poor in the large cities are constantly supplied with beef, mutton, lamb 
and chicken. From the earliest time the subjection of meat to extreme cold 
has been practiced in order to enhance its keeping qualities. Bacterial 
growth is inhibited to a greater or less extent by refrigeration, which con- 
sists (a) in actually freezing the meat, in which condition it may be kept 
without decomposition almost indefinitely until finally thawed for use, or 
(&) by keeping the meat at or near the temperature of freezing without 
actually congealing it, as is done by the use of the ordinary methods of re- 
frigeration. The second method, while much less efiicacious than the first, 
serves to prevent much decomposition for a considerable time, and is pre- 
ferred for beef, mutton and pork. Lower temperatures are employed with 
poultry and game. There are many processes of refrigeration in use: the 
direct expansion, indirect expansion by circulation of cooled air, etc. 



4 FOOD PRESERVATION 

THE EFFECT OF PROLONGED COLD STORAGE. — Dr. Carl von BaeT 
reported to the Royal Society of London the discovery in Arctic Siberia 
of the body of a frozen mammoth, the meat of which was still preserved. 
As this animal had been extinct since the days of prehistoric man, it af- 
forded an illustration of the marvelous preservative power of intense cold. 
In 1861 the entire bodies of three Swiss guides, who forty years before 
had been buried by an avalanche over the Glacier de Boissons, were found 
in a state of excellent preservation. With these examples of the influence 
of cold, it is little wonder that meat may be preserved for a few months 
on ice and yet be quite fit to eat. 

These two instances, however, are hardly in harmony with the follow- 
ing experiences. Wiley (2) records his experience of examining a quar- 
ter of beef which had been kept frozen in a warehouse for more than eleven 
years. This meat was found to be wholly inedible. It had an unpleas- 
ant and a decidedly mummy-like odor, was light in fiber and color, having 
evidently lost a large part of its weight and was of a character wholly 
unsuitable for consumption. On one occasion, the author had an oppor- 
tunity of inspecting a large quarter of beef which was furnished by a 
western packing house to the United States Army for food, and they 
claimed that it had been in cold storage for more than twelve months, and 
that it left the storage in a wholesome condition, having been inspected 
and passed by a representative of the Government. It was taken from the 
refrigerating cars still cold and delivered to the commissary department 
and was found to be putrid, with foul odors emanating from it. It was 
soft and of such a character as to be wholly unfit and unsuitable for con- 
sumption. 

These facts appear to show that in the first instance eleven years is 
too long a time to keep meat frozen ; in fact, it is scarcely worth while, 
from a practical point of view, to discuss so long a limit. In the other 
instance, the facts point out that a shorter period of time was conducive 
of no better results. Only the necessary time for the preparation and 
transportation of the meat is to be considered, and the sanitary laws of 
the nation, state and municipality should undoubtedly regulate the time 
of cold storage and see that all packages of meat exposed for sale are 
plainly tagged as to the date of the slaughter, in order that the consumer 
may know what he is really purchasing. 

A great variety of food materials are now kept for indefinite periods 
of time in cold storage — that is to say, they are stored in chambers cooled 
by air which passes over pipes conveying cold brine, carbonic anhydrid 
or ammonia gas. The circulation of such air, by keeping the substance at 
a temperature below that necessary for the development of putrefactive 



METHODS OF FOOD PRESERVATION 5 

germs, is a sufficient protection against the processes of putrefaction. Ex- 
perience has shown that the best temperature for the preservation of ma- 
terials by cold storage is as follows: 

REQUISITE COLD STORAGE TEMPERATURES FOR THE PRESERVA- 
TION OF CERTAIN ANIMAL FOODS 

Brined meat 35 to 40° F. Lard 34to35T. 

Fresh beef 37 to 39° F. Fish 25 to 28° F. 

Mutton 32 to 36° F. Oysters 38 to 42° F. 

Pork 30 to 33° F. Poultry (frozen) 5 to 10° F. 

Veal 32 to 36° F. Poultry (cold storage) 28 to 30° F. 

Ham 30 to 35° F. Fresh fruit 33 to 40° F. 

Vegetables 33 to 40° F. 

After all that has been said in favor of cold storage of meats, the fact 
remains that meat which has been in cold storage for any length of time 
is not as wholesome and tasty as absolutely fresh meat. It is the opinion 
of the author that much of the intestinal disturbance results from the end 
products of protein digestion, which are to some extent due to the inges- 
tion of cold storage meats. The germs of putrefaction attack meat very 
soon after the animal heat leaves the carcass, and no matter how it is pre- 
served or what methods are resorted to for its preservation, putrefaction 
to a greater or less degree goes on until the meat is cooked. 

It is practically impossible to secure on the New York markets an ab- 
solutely fresh fowl, either duck, chicken or turkey; they have all been in 
cold storage for a greater or lesser period of time, and no matter what 
price is exacted for these fowls, when cooked, the flesh next to the bone 
will have an unsavory odor and a far from inviting or palatable taste. 
Even the "kosher" killed fowls, after a journey of several hundreds of 
miles without proper air, food and water, are sick, and such fowls are 
unfit for slaughter unless turned into an open lot and fed wholesome 
food for a few days. This of course is not done. The only people who 
enjoy absolutely fresh fowls and meat are people living in rural districts 
who can always secure fresh foods. Cold storage eggs are advertised and 
sold as "eggs fresh from the farm," whereas they may have been in cold 
storage anywhere from a few months to a few years, and instead of having 
that fresh egg flavor, they will offer to the olfactory nerves an odor some- 
what similar to that of a rancid oil. 

Sterilization — Sterilization, by the application of heat in sterilizing 
containers, renders meat or other foods germ free. Practically all thor- 
oughly cooked food is, for the time being, "sterilized," and it is a well- 
known fact that overdone meat keeps longer than underdone meat, since 



6 FOOD PRESERVATION 

the outer layers are firmly coagulated and dried by the heat of boiling or 
roasting which forms an almost impervious envelope, hermetically sealing 
it from the air. The products of decomposition in meat include albu- 
minoses, leukomain, ptomain, hydrogen, carbon dioxid and marsh gas. 

Exclusion of Air. — This is the preservatioii of food by a process of 
canning, the principles of which include the destruction of the organism 
which produces putrefactive changes, and afterwards, the hermetical seal- 
ing of the container to prevent the access of more bacteria. If the destruc- 
tion of the microorganisms is not complete, the bacteria will still produce 
changes in the meat or vegetables, and the gases accUmulatie in the tin. If 
the pressure is great enough, the tin becomes "blown," the ends bulge, and 
the contents are unfit for food. The process of canning meat or vegetables 
is conducted somewhat as follows: The container is first of all boiled to 
kill any germs. The product to be canned should then be thoroughly 
sterilized by heat, and immediately placed in the container and hermet- 
ically sealed. Some unscrupulous manufacturers use antiseptics instead 
of heat, much to the detriment of the public health. H. W. Wiley (3), 
who made an exhaustive study of canned foods, says : 

All manner of food is canned, and that at prices which place it within the 
reach of the humblest pockets. Preserved food has been a ^eat democratic fac- 
tor, and has nearly obliterated one of the old lines of demarcation between the 
poor and the wealthy. Vegetables put of season are no longer a luxury of the 
rich. In the American grocery pineapples from Singapore, salmon from British 
Columbia, fruit from California, peas from France, okra from Louisiana, sweet 
corn from New York, string beans from Scotland, mutton from Australia, sar- 
dines from Italy, stand side by side on the shelves. 

Of the dangers of poisoning from canned goods, Wiley says: 

Vegetables are tisually canned in the fresh state, and if they are in any degree 
spoiled at the time the fact is usually conspicuously evident to the taste, so that 
the canner cannot afford to use them. Bacterial action seldom occurs in the can 
without bursting it or rendering it unsalable. Ptomains may, however, develop 
where the canned food is allowed to stand for some time after opening, though 
even then this is unlikely in the case of preserved vegetables. It may be said, 
therefore, that the principal risks to health which may arise from the use of 
canned goods are those due to the use of preservatives, or to the presence of the 
heavy metals, copper, tin, lead and zinc. In this country there is no restriction 
whatever in regard to the character of the tin employed, and as a result of this, 
the tin of some of the cans has been found to contain as high as 12 per cent 
of lead. The analyses of numerous samples of solder employed show that it con- 
tains fully 50 per cent of lead. In addition to this there is no care taken to pre- 
vent the solder from coming into contact with the contents of the can. It is a 
rare thing to carefully examine the contents of a can without finding pellets of 
solder somewhere therein. 



METHODS OF FOOD PRESERVATION 7 

Treatment with Antiseptic Chemical Agents — :The use of various anti- 
septic and preservative fluids is designed to prevent activity of germs and 
fermentation. Sugar, like salt, in strong solution possesses decided anti- 
septic powers, and hence the employment of strong fluids for the preser- 
vation of fruits, and of sugar itself in making candied fruits. Other 
harmless preservative materials which are added are oils, chiefly service- 
able for keeping fish, and vinegar and spirits of wine for pickling such 
products as chillies, tarragon and shallot. Vinegar is used to preserve 
oysters, lobsters and other sea food, as well as cucumbers, cauliflower and 
other vegetables. Fish are immersed in mixtures of cider vinegar flavored 
with cloves, nutmeg, parsley, bay-leaf, onions, etc. After being "soused" 
once or twice, the food is heated in the fluid to 140° F. Flavoring sub- 
stances are added, and the whole is put into air-tight jars. The fumes of 
burning sulphur are sometimes used as a preservative of foods, especially 
fruits. Acetic acid, weak carbolic acid solutions and bisulphite of calcium 
are injected into the blood vessels of meat for the same purpose. Chlorid 
of akiminium, borax, salicylic acid and other materials have been exten- 
sively used for the preservation of milk. 

Another method of preserving meat consists of injecting the animal, 
the moment it is killed, with a solution of borax, which is so uniformly 
distributed through the circulation to all the fibers of the meat, that only 
a very small quantity of the antiseptic need be employed. The preserva- 
tion of meat by the antiseptic action of these substances, if used in excess, 
is apt to endanger the normal digestive functions, and besides render the 
meat less nutritious. The use of many of these chemical agents has been 
forbidden by federal enactment, and their use in all forms of animal food 
is everywhere condemned. 

SCIENTIFIC FOOD PRESERVATION 
Science Discovers New Method of Preserving Food. — History records 
that during the Napoleonic wars the problem of feeding the army, and 
more particularly the navy, became so acute that the French Government 
offered a reward of 12,000 francs to the person who could invent a satis- 
factory method of preserving food. Appert, a French confectioner, was 
stimulated by this offer and devoted his efforts to the undertaking. 
Finally, in 1809 he gave to the world the method of preserving foods 
in tins. Likewise the "beef scandal," following the Spanish-American 
War, set a French chef (in New York City) to work on a new method 
of preserving food without the use of tin or glass. After years of experi- 
mentation this chef, with the aid of eminent scientists and food special- 
ists, evolved new processes in cooking, desiccation, concentration and 



8 FOOD presehvatio:n' 

preservation, whereby various foodstuffs, meats, vegetables and fruits 
were scientifically preserved without loss of flavor, taste, food value, 
mineral or vitamine content. Foods preserved according to this new 
process are claimed to keep indefinitely in any climate and to be free 
from ptomaine or botulism poisoning. According to this new method of 
preservation, the foods are cooked, seasoned and ready to serve. The 
manufacturers' list of preserved "instant" foods includes hashes, soups, 
broths and desserts, packed in pasteboard cartons containing sufficient for 
three servings which only require the addition of cold water and a few 
minutes' boiling when ready to serve. The manufacturers claim for this 
new method the acme of perfection in food conservation, concentration 
"and preservation. According to their literature the "instant" food prod- 
ucts are (a) made from the best quality of fresh foods just when they 
reach their highest stage of perfection and wholesomeness ; (b) they 
retain the color, taste, flavor and structure of fresh foods ; (c) they have 
all the nutritive value, mineral and vitamine content of fresh foods; 
(d) they are preserved without the use of tin, glass, or any chemical 
preservative; and, (c) they possess all the good qualities without any 
of the disadvantages of other preserved foods. 

This method of preserving foods by cooking and later preserving them 
in their own juices bids fair to revolutionize all former known methods 
of food preservation. The scientific preservation of foods makes it 
possible to utilize, in times and places of relative scarcity, products which 
are available in season and regions of abundance. Scientific food preser- 
vation will be a boon to humanity, reducing the high cost of living by 
at least thirty-five per cent. At the present time more than fifty per 
cent of all vegetable and fruits produced never reach the markets. If 
all this waste was conserved and preserved America could feed half the 
world. The concentration of these "instant" food products makes them 
particularly desirable on account of the small space and light weight they 
occupy in storage and shipment. According to an article in Amer. 
Medicine(4) reporting a biological feeding experiment, these "instant" 
foods contain their normal vitamine content. The degree of heat used 
in the cooking, curing and preserving processes does not impair the vita- 
mine content of the foods. 

REFERENCES 

1. Teo, Bueney. Physiological Chemistry. 

2. Wiley, Haevey W. Foods and Their Adulteration. 

3. . U. S. Dept. Agric. Bull. No. 13. 

^. Fitch, W. E. American Medicine, vol. xvi, No. 7, July, 1921. 



CHAPTER II 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 
H. Edwin Lewis, M.D. 

Dehydration: Value; Methods. 

Dehydration of Animal Foods: Milk, Casein; Eggs; Meat; Fish. 

Dehydration of Fruits: Prunes; Apricots; Peaches; Plums; Apples; Un- 
usual Fruits — Persimmons, Copra, etc. 

Dehydration of Vegetables: Potatoes; Corn; Beans — Soy Bean, Lima 
Bean; Cabbage, Parsnips, Turnips, etc.; Use in Allied Armies. 

Value of Process of Dehydration — It will be quite in place, before going 
into details regarding the question of dehydration, to discuss briefly the 
whole subject from a broad outlook. First, stress should be laid on the 
fact that dehydration is the surest means known of preserving foodstuffs, 
especially those of the vegetable kingdom, for an indefinite length of time 
without injury to the products thus treated. Dehydration, indeed, is a 
most effective mode of really preserving vegetables and fruits, and to a 
lesser extent animal foods^ the cellular membrane of vegetable matter is 
in no respect injured by the process of evaporation when properly car- 
ried out. 

The vitamine element, now known to be so essential to the conservation 
of good health, is preserved in vegetables which are subjected to Amer- 
ican evaporating methods. Moreover, the palatability and flavor of vege- 
tables dehydrated in this manner are not impaired ; in consequence, vege- 
tables and fruits dried by this process retain to a really remarkable extent 
their normal flavor and fresh taste when prepared for the table. Fur- 
thermore, since their cellular tissue is uninjured, they resume their natu- 
ral appearance soon after they have been soaked in water. 

Proper dehydration is perhaps the most wonderful means of preserving 
food, particularly vegetable food, yet devised. This process does not harm 
the nutritive properties of the food. It represents the utmost food econ- 

9 



10 PKESEKVATIOX OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

omy, and the translation of its principles into practice is peculiarly ap- 
plicable to the present juncture, when war makes it incumbent upon all 
to avoid waste and to save the food supply by every known means. 

Few persons have any idea of the fearful, almost criminal, waste of 
vegetables and fruits in this country. We are certainly a careless and im- 
provident people. This is no doubt due largely to our living in a country 
of almost unlimited resources, where prosperity has always reigned and 
where stint or lack of food has been unknown. 

The United States Department of Agriculture has stated that in the 
neighborhood of 50 per cent of the vegetables and fruits grown here never 
reach the consumer's table, and according to R. G. Skerrett(l), it is 
equally certain that the greater part of the product thus sacrificed does 
not leave the farm or orchard. This unfortunate happening is due to 
various causes — lack of transportation, the state of the market, but mainly 
because only the very best fruits and vegetables will pass final muster or 
will be in a condition which will ensure their sale at a profitable figure. 
All these difficulties might be overcome and could be overcome if facili- 
ties for proper dehydration were available. 

It has been pointed out that scientifically dehydrated vegetables and 
fruits can be conserved for a practically unlimited period of time. It 
may also be stated that these same food products can be sold to the con- 
sumer at a price considerably below that of fresh products, which can only 
be obtained at certain periods of the year, and even below the price of 
canned foods of this nature. For instance, one pound of kidney beans 
dried artificially costs ten cents, a pint can of these same beans costs fif- 
teen cents. One pound of the dried beans will go as far as four cans, in 
addition to providing a good deal more nutriment. 

A weighty reason why Germany has been able to hold out so long in 
spite of the blockade may be attributed to a large extent to the fact that 
she had adopted, long before the war, a widespread system of preserving 
by dehydrating processes vegetables and fruits that otherwise would have 
been lost. Immediately before the war, there were more than four hun- 
dred dehydrating establishments in Germany, and since hostilities com- 
menced, many more have been built. At the present time all the German 
cities of any size contain evaporating plants, by which means the surplus 
stock of farm products has been saved to tide the population over the 
lean days. 

The public must be taught to realize the necessity for economy in food 
and should also be taught the value of dehydration as a factor in achieving 
this object. There is always a certain amount of prejudice against novel 



VALUE OF PKOCESS OF DEHYDRATION H 

ideas. Canning, at one time, was regarded with hostility, and cold storage 
was and is still looked upon with a good deal of distrust. Cold storage 
when not abused is a highly satisfactory method of preserving food, and 
canning possesses conspicuous merits. Perhaps the American people have 
contracted the "canning habit," or rather the habit of eating canned foods, 
with too great facility because canned food provided such an easy method 
of satisfying the food wants of the body. At any rate, a good deal of 
the prejudice which existed against canned foods has vanished. ITow 
there is need for an educational propaganda to enlighten the public as to 
the nutritive and economic value of dehydrated foodstuffs. 

DEHYDRATION OF VEGETABLES.-Dehydration as applied to vege- 
tables is as yet in its swaddling clothes and has only just cut, metaphor- 
ically speaking, its first teeth. True it is, that the dried fruit industry, 
which, by the way, is almost as old as the immemorial hills, is established 
on a firm basis, but the dehydration of the common or garden vegetables, 
as potatoes, cabbage, spinach, onions and so forth, has not found favor 
in the eyes of the people at large. The reason for this is that the man in 
the street does not understand the situation and is either indifferent to 
dehydrated foods or is mildly and ignorantly prejudiced against them. If 
he could be taught the significance of modern dehydrating methods and 
be shown that dehydrated foods are superior to canned or cold storage 
foods — in fact, almost identical with the products in a fresh state — and 
that only by the dehydration of vegetables can conditions be handled suc- 
cessfully, he would assuredly alter his attitude toward this question. 

Here are some further reasons why dehydrated vegetables fill a place 
which cannot be filled by vegetables subjected to any other preservative 
process. 

First, some dehydrated vegetables, when scientifically prepared, retain 
their original flavor more fully than when canned in the usual fashion. 
Two of the most important of the canned American vegetables, corn and 
string beans, are outstanding examples of the truth of this statement. If 
beans and corn, which have been dehydrated under exactly correct condi- 
tions, are soaked and cooked, they retain their natural flavor, which, on 
the other hand, is much impaired by the ordinary canning process. 

As H. J, Burgess (2) has pointed out, some factor in the dehydrating 
process — possibly oxidation has something to do with it — develops flavors 
which no other process will develop. All vegetables are not improved in 
flavor by means of dehydration; generally speaking, however, the flavor 
of no vegetable is impaired by this process as it is hj canning. A lack of 
understanding on the part of the public as to the merits of dehydration 



12 PEESEIiVATIO:N^ OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

is largely responsible for the relatively slow progress of the industry. In 
order to render the public more cognizant of the economic and other 
obvious advantages of dehydration, especially of the dehydration of vege- 
tables, it will be necessary to induce housewives to take an intelligent 
interest in the matter. This result will only be brought about by the 
prosecution of a publicity campaign showing the advantages of dehydra- 
tion and popularizing food products treated by this process. 

We have dwelt upon and endeavored to drive home as forcibly as pos- 
sible the potentialities of a universal system of dehydrating vegetables, 
because vegetables best lend themselves to the method. We feel convinced 
that if this means of preserving them is generally adopted, a great ad- 
vance will have been made in economizing and conserving the food supply 
as well as in providing a reserve of nutritive foodstuff in case of need. 
The details of the dehydration of vegetables will be exhaustively dealt 
with at the end of this chapter. 

The dehydration of fruits is a long established industry, as is also 
the drying of meat; desiccation of milk has been carried on during a 
period of several years. These subjects, therefore, will only be discussed 
under their several heads. 

APPLICATION OF DEHYDRATION TO SPECIAL FOODS 
DESICCATION OF MILK 

With regard to the desiccation of milk, it may be said that the prac- 
tical process of converting cow's milk into dry milk powder is a compara- 
tively recent discovery. Attempts were made in the middle of the last 
century to condense milk to a stage of dryness ; these resulted in failure. 
According to Levi Wells (3), a consular report from Sweden, dated No- 
vember 20, 1901, refers to a process reported to the Academy of Agricul- 
ture, a meeting of which was held in Stockholm in that month. The 
Neio York Produce Review and American Creamery, January 1, 1002, 
comments on a similar process used in America, and claims that it was 
discovered prior to the Swedish process. 

Historical Development of the Process. — Dr. Eric Pritchard(4) states 
that in the year 1003 Mr. S. Amundsen succeeded in employing on a 
commercial scale a method of desiccation invented a few years previously 
by Dr. G. Ekenberg. Dr. Pritchard is the greatest authority on dried 
milk in Great Britain, and one of the first in the world. In the course 
of the following account of desiccated milk, his work just referred to 
will be largely drawn upon for facts and views. The establishment of 



APPLICATION OF DEHYDHATIOK TO FOODS 13 

Mr. Amundsen's factory in Christiania was almost the necessary conse- 
quence of the fact that in this part of Sweden the butter industry, entail- 
ing a large and unavoidable loss of by-products and residuals, was of con- 
siderable importance. The outcome of this condition was the invention 
of the Ekenberg process. At first this process was by no means an un- 
qualified success, chiefly because the method could be used only for the 
desiccation of milk from which the butter fat had been extracted. How- 
ever, in the course of time the Ekenberg system was so greatly improved 
that manufacturers were able to produce desiccated milk on a commercial 
scale without the preliminary removal of the cream. 

Present Methods. — So many improvements have since been made that 
at the present moment there are, according to Pritchard, three distinct 
methods of manufacture, each good in its way and each possessing special 
advantages. Levi Wells, on the other hand, says that there are two dis- 
tinct methods of drying milk from which several systems have been 
evolved. 

EKENBERG PROCESS.— As described by Pritchard, the Ekenberg 
process consists in the partial condensation of milk at a low temperature 
under reduced pressure, and its subsequent desiccation within the interior 
of cylinders heated to a comparatively low temperature. The milk solidi- 
fies into a crystalline mass on the surface of the cylinders, which are kept 
in constant rotation. This mass is subsequently broken up and pulver- 
ized. The method is largely employed in France and in other parts of 
Europe. 

JUST-HATMAKER PROCESS.— In Great Britain the method usually em- 
ployed is that known as the Just-Hatmaker process. In this method the 
previously concentrated milk is spread on the outer surface of rotating 
cylinders, which are heated to 160° C. by steam. The thin film of milk 
dries very rapidly on the highly polished surfaces, and when dry is 
scraped off by sharp knife blades and subsequently pulverized as in the 
Ekenberg process. 

BEVENOT DE NEVEU PROCESS.— A third process, generally known as 
the Bevenot de T^eveu method, consists in concentrating the milk in vacuo 
and at a low temperature, and then forcing it under high pressure, 250 
atmospheres, through minute perforations in a metal disk into the drying 
chamber. The nebula of homogenized milk is then surrounded by an en- 
velope of dry hot air and swept across the chamber. Owing to the fine 
state of division of the particles in which the condensed milk is pre- 
sented, and to its intimate contact with dry air, the milk is almost in- 
stantaneously desiccated, and falls as an extremely fine powder to the 



14 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

floor of the chamber. The moisture thus evaporated is carried off as a 
cloud of steam, while the snow-like desiccated milk is rapidly swept up 
from the floor and packed in tins or other receptacles. 

The rapidity with which the concentrated milk is evaporated in the 
drying chamber is the distinguishing feature of this method. So swift 
is the evaporation that the water is removed from the coagulable ingredi- 
ents, such as the whey products, before they have time to become coagu- 
lated by the heat. In fact, the coagulable substances which have been so 
desiccated can be reconstituted by adding water. 

By the Bevenot de Neveu process milk and whey can be reduced to 
a very dry powder containing no more than 1 per cent of water, appar- 
ently without alteration of their physical properties; that is to say, none 
of the enzymes or vitamines appear to be destroyed. The milk, when re- 
constituted with water, can be coagnilated by rennet or heat, precipitated 
with acids, and soured by lactic acid ferments, just as is the case with 
milk fresh from the cow. Moreover, when allowed to stand, the cream 
will slowly rise as it does in fresh milk which has been homogenized. 
As Pritchard says, these results are in his opinion very valuable, for they 
refute the chief argument usually brought against desiccated milks — that 
they are so profoundly altered by the heat to which they have been sub- 
jected in the course of manufacture that they no longer possess those sub- 
tle and vital properties which are supposed to be essential to good nutri- 
tion. 

If the results of the Bevenot de Neveu method of desiccating milk 
are as Pritchard thinks they are, and he is a close and trained observer, 
and if none of the enzymes or vitamines are destroyed, the process is 
an excellent one. The odor, however, of the Bevenot de Neveu milk 
is slightly tallowy, due to the oxidation of the fat, a result which seems 
to follow from the fine state of division in which the fat particles are pre- 
sented to the oxygen of the air. While this oxidation in no way impairs 
the nutritive value of the milk, it detracts, of course, from its popularity. 
This is unfortunate, as in all other respects it is superior, in Pritchard's 
opinion, to other varieties of desiccated milk. 

STAUF PROCESS. — Robert Stauf, of Posen, Germany, devised a process 
for producing dry powders from blood, milk, etc., by atomizing these 
liquids into supplementary regulated currents of heated air. The amount 
of air and heat supplied was sufficient to completely absorb and vaporize 
the moisture of the liquid. The resulting dry powder was separated from 
the moisture-laden air by means of a screen. The screen retained the 
powder and the air passed off through the screen. The Stauf process was 



APPLICATION OF 13EHYDKATI0K TO FOODS 15 

the first spray-drjing process to be commercially used in the United 
States. 

Comparison of Kinds of Desiccated Milk. — The appearances of th^ 
cylinder-dried and air-dried milks are distinctive. The color of Just- 
Hatmaker milk is biscuit yellow, that of Bevenot de Neveu milk of a 
peculiarly snow-like white. When allowed to stand, the fat rises in the 
former as a yellow oil, in the latter as a rich cream. The odor of the 
cylinder-dried milk is agreeable and distinctly biscuity. 

Fatless Milk. — Levi Wells is of the opinion that drying milk from 
which the fat has been removed seems to be a success. Milk is changed 
by the drying process from a quickly perishable, bulky substance, incon- 
venient to transport, into a product requiring little space. Its keeping 
properties are practically unlimited, and, furthermore, it is a safe food, 
free or almost free from hurtful germs. 

According to Wells, probably over 90 per cent of the milk powder pro- 
duced at the present time is made of skim milk. From one hundred 
pounds of whole milk of average quality, 3.5 pounds of butter fat and 
nine pounds of dry skim milk can be secured. Dry skim milk powder 
has the appearance of ordinary flour made from grain. This grade of 
dried milk possesses in a condensed form all the valuable properties of 
fresh, sweet, skim milk. It can be used in this form by bakers and con- 
fectioners, or, if desired, it can be converted into its original liquid state 
by adding the amount of water that has been extracted from it. Wells 
is not so enthusiastic concerning desiccated whole milk. He undoubtedly 
refers to America when he states that most of the milk desiccated is skim 
milk, as Pritchard, although he writes solely on infant feeding, points 
out that in Great Britain dried milks, whether prepared by the cylinder 
or the air process, are usually sold in three qualities: "full fat" milk, 
from which no cream has been extracted before drying; "half cream," 
from which part of the fat has been removed ; and as desiccated milk, from 
which all the cream has been separated. 

Reconstruction of Desiccated Milk for Infants. — If it is desired to repro- 
duce undiluted cow's milk, it can be accomplished by prescribing so many 
ounces of the reconstituted dried milk made up in the proportion of one 
dram of the powder to one ounce of water, and modified for infant con- 
sumption. If dried milk is to be modified to correspond to breast milk 
in all its constituent parts, including its content of whey products, these 
latter must be added independently. 

The Bevenot de Neveu process of desiccation produces a whey powder 
which when reconstituted with water almost exactly reproduces the orig- 



16 PRESEEVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

inal whey from which it was prepared. By an appropriate combination 
of dried milk, whey powder, sugar and cream, a humanized milk can be 
prepared which has a percentage composition the same as human milk, 
namely — caseinogen, 0.5 per cent; whey proteins, 1 per cent; sugar, 6.5 
per cent, and fat, 8.5 per cent. The formula is as follows : 

Full Cream Dried Milk 3 teaspoonfuls 

Dried Whey Powder 21/^ tablespoonfuls 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 

Thick Cream 1 oz. 

Water to 1 pt. 

This is a very valuable substitute for breast milk. 

Strong, healthy infants, who have been accustomed to take ordinary 
cow's milk, or who have been gradually accustomed to larger quantities 
of caseinogen by a graduated course of feeding, thrive well on a mixture 
of the following formula: proteins, 2.5 per cent; sugar, 6.5 per cent; fat, 
3.5 per cent. This is prepared by combining: 

Full Cream Dried Milk 2 oz. 

Sugar 1/^ oz. 

Thick Cream 11/^ oz. 

Water to make the pint 

For the feeding of poor infants and for the sake of economy, Pritchard 
uses desiccated separated milk, which he modifies by adding supplemen- 
tary fat and by sweetening with a small quantity of sugar. He employs 
as a fat an emulsion of linseed oil. The formula for preparing 20 ounces 
of separated dried milk and an emulsion of linseed oil is as follows: 

Separated Dried Milk li/2 oz. 

Emulsion of Linseed Oil (50 per cent fat) . . l^/^ oz. 

Sugar 1/2 oz. 

Water to make pint 

Advantages of Desiccated Milk — Pritchard believes with Professor 
Porcher that desiccated milk is 'la vache dans le placard." If you have 
dried milk, you are as well off as if you kept a cow in the larder ready 
to be milked at any moment. Dairy milk deteriorates and is liable to 
infection almost from the moment it is milked up to the moment of con- 
sumption. Desiccated milk represents milk which has only deteriorated 
between the time of milking and desiccation. This time may be short. 
The range of usefulness of desiccated milk is obviously a wide one. It 



APPLICATION OF BEHYDRATION TO FOODS 17 

possesses many advantages. Its keeping properties are to all intents and 
purposes unlimited; it is easily transported; it is convenient to handle 
and is ready for immediate use under any circumstances and at all times ; 
it is sterile ; and its cost is somewhat less than the dairy milks. When the 
desiccation is properly done, the nutritive properties of the milk are pre- 
served. Skim milk is more easily and successfully desiccated than milk 
from which the fat has not been removed, yet whole milk can be desic- 
cated with success, although its keeping properties are not equal to those 
of dried skim milk. For the various reasons already given, desiccated 
milk is especially well adapted for use in armies, hotels, restaurants, 
boarding houses and hospitals. As the public gains a better conception 
of its value, its use is certain to be greatly increased. 

The average composition of whole milk powder is as follows: solids, 
96.3; ash, 5.6; fat, 26.8; protein, 32.0; lactose, 31.9. Analysis of skim 
milk powder shows solids, 91.7; ash, 6.9; fat, 1.7; protein, 33.8; lactose, 
49.3. 

DEHYDRATION OF CASEIN 

According to Cautley(5), dried casein is a very nutritious food, on 
a par with the cheese made from skim milk. It is enormously valuable 
in that it can be added to other foods, thus enhancing their protein value. 
Casein is purin free, does not clot and is easily digested and absorbed. 
It is indicated in all ajfections in which additional protein is needed ^ and 
is useful as a means of giving phosphorus in organic combinations. It 
is especially valuable in the treatment of acid dyspepsia, for the protein 
fixes the acid. 

DRIED EGGS 

Special investigations of the freezing and drying of eggs and of the 
two general methods in use for preserving eggs when removed from their 
shells have been made by Pennington (6), and by Stiles and Bates (7). 

There is no doubt that the drying of eggs is an economically desirable 
procedure provided that the eggs are fresh and wholesome and that they 
are handled with care. 

Pennington has pointed out that the handling of eggs from which the 
shells have been removed is analogous in many respects to the handling 
of milk, and should be characterized by the most scrupulous cleanliness 
from beginning to end. Bacteriological investigation will best demon- 
strate the sources of contamination, which can be eliminated almost wholly 
by the adoption and enforcement of strict sanitary measures, such as clean- 
liness of surroundings and of the workers, frequent cleansing and drying 



18 PEESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

of the fingers, use of appliances and containers which have been thoroughly 
sterilized, and prompt drying of the egg after the shell has been removed. 

According to Stiles and Bates, the drying of eggs expels over nine- 
tenths of the water originally present. One pound of the dry product rep- 
resents the solids of from 36 to 40 average-sized eggs. 

Stiles and Bates describe four general methods of drying eggs in com- 
mercial use. Of these methods the following, known as the "instantaneous 
method," is perhaps the most satisfactory. The liquid eggs are sprayed 
into a heated chamber at a temperature of about 160 F., where they are 
immediately reduced to a fine powder which usually contains from 3 to 
5 per cent of moisture. This powder is carried by currents of air through 
cotton bags or other filtering devices, and finally falls into bins, ready to 
be packed in suitable containers. Other processes of drying eggs are 
known as the "Belt" method, the "Disk" method and the "Tray" or 
"Board" method. Egg substance thoroughly dried, preferably by the in- 
stantaneous process, will keep in a satisfactory condition in almost any 
climate, for an unlimited period of time and retain all the nutritive value 
of the fresh egg. 

Stiles and Bates, as the result of many experiments to determine the 
bacterial content of frozen and dried fresh eggs, came to the following 
conclusions: Under normal conditions, strictly fresh dried eggs contain 
few if any bacteria, and no appreciable numbers of B. coli in 1 c.c. quan- 
tities. Consequently, it may be stated that if the eggs are fresh, if all the 
necessary sanitary conditions are fulfilled when preparing them for dry- 
ing, and if the instantaneous method is employed, the eggs thus treated 
will preserve their nutritive properties for an indefinite length of time 
and will constitute an important reserve supply of food. 

THE PRESERVATION OF MEAT BY DEHYDRATION 

Ancient and Modem Methods of Drying Meats. — The drying of meat is 
a very ancient custom. Almost as soon as our prehistoric ancestors were 
enabled by means of hunting to gratify their natural instinct for animal 
food, they preserved some of the meat or fish thus obtained by drying it 
in the sun and then storing it. Even before flesh food was known to 
them, they were accustomed to dry insects in the sun, and many of the 
primitive peoples still existing follow similar customs. 

In the dry climates of South America or of South Africa, and on our 
Western plains, meat is cut into thin strips and hung out of doors to be 
exposed to the direct action of the sun's rays. In a short time the moisture 



APPLICATIO:^' OF DEHyDRATIO:N' TO FOODS 19 

has disappeared and the hard, dry pieces will keep indefinitely, or, at 
any rate, as long as they are kept dry. The meat retains a fair degree of 
palatability and practically all of its nutritive properties. In the West 
this is known as ''jerked beef," and in South Africa as "biltong." "Pem- 
mican," a food largely used by explorers, is a mixture of dried lean meat, 
fat, and sometimes dried fruits, such as currants and raisins. 

TELLIER METHOD.— Drying is not so well adapted to meats as to vege- 
tables and fruits. Dried meats lose, to a considerable extent, their natural 
flavor. Perhaps the best method of preserving meat by dehydration is 
that devised by the celebrated French refrigeration engineer, Charles Tel- 
lier, who has described the process in his book, "La Conservation de la 
Viande." A. F. Burger (8) gives an account of the method. By this 
process the meat is dehydrated in vacuo, without the employment of heat 
or the use of any agents which might alter its properties, as is the case 
when meat is preserved by pickling or by drying with heat. Meat dehy- 
drated in vacuo loses most of its water and retains its natural properties. 
Its culinary properties are not prejudicially affected nor is its nutritive 
value impaired, since no essential alteration of the tissue or of the juices 
occurs. 

The degree of vacuum to be applied in removing the water should be 
as near absolute as possible; in any event the pressure remaining in the 
evaporating chamber should not be above 4 or 5 millimeters of mercury 
and the vacuum should be kept up for 12 to 24 hours. The method em- 
ployed by Tellier was as follows : An apparatus is constructed, consisting 
of two strong cylindrical containers, each surrounded by a water jacket 
for the purpose of maintaining a desired temperature. These two recep- 
tacles are connected by a pipe passing out at the top. The larger of the 
two vessels is filled with the meat to be dried, placed upon trays. The 
other vessel is filled with coke or other inert spongy, porous material which 
is kept wet by a solution of caustic potash. 

After the air has been drawn out of the system by means of an ordi- 
nary air pump, carbonic acid gas is turned in and later removed by the 
pump. This procedure takes out the last traces of air. The residue of 
carbonic acid gas is then absorbed by the caustic potash solution which 
impregnates the coke, the result being a very perfect vacuum. The process 
is said to be inexpensive and to require but little hand labor. Three ad- 
vantages of the method are stated, (a) The meat preserved in this man- 
ner keeps even when exposed to the air. For all practical purposes it is 
sterile, since the organisms contained therein are either killed by the de- 
hydration or are so weakened thereby that they cannot vegetate or multiply 



20 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

on account of the lack of moisture. (&) Having been cut into suitable 
pieces before preparation, it may be easily handled in small shops, (c) 
Meat thus treated can be much more easily transported than fresh meat. 

POWDERED MEATS.— Powdered meats are prepared by complete des- 
iccation, and products of this nature are found upon the market in a finely 
ground form. Meat powders are made from fresh meats in their natural 
state and also from artificially digested meats. 

Italian Method foe Powdering Meat. — Some four years ago an 
Italian inventor perfected a process for preparing beef meal. Meat treated 
by this process is said to retain the characteristic taste and aroma of ordi- 
nary beef. By this process the beef is dried at a low temperature ; that 
part of the vapors which contain the aroma substances is collected, con- 
densed and added to the dried beef after the latter has been properly 
ground. Beef prepared by this method is said to have unlimited keeping 
properties. It can be used in exactly the same way as ordinary beef for 
soups or in combination with vegetables. 

Disadvantages of Meat in Powdered Form. — Dehydration of meat 
or its reduction to powder, however, impairs its flavor and renders it less 
palatable. In consequence, meat treated by these processes is not likely 
to become widely popular. Circumstances may occur in which dehydrated 
or powdered meat may be extremely useful, indeed, almost essential, but 
in everyday life dehydrated or powdered meat will not have a vogue. The 
dehydration of vegetables, on the other hand, will probably revolutionize 
the food situation. It is mainly this form of dehydration, therefore, that 
will be discussed most exhaustively and upon which emphasis will be 
chiefly laid in our consideration of the subject. 

DRIED FISH 

A good deal of fish is sun-dried, but at present there are no artificial 
modes of dehydrating fish. An immense quantity of fish is cured and 
incidentally dried, but this is not dehydration. There is a dried fish 
powder made in Greenock from white fish, mainly protein ; dehydration, 
however, is not usually applied to fish. 

DRIED FRUITS 

The drying of fruits is an extremely ancient procedure. It was the 
custom in primitive days and by primitive peoples for fruits to be pre- 
served by extracting the moisture or a large proportion of the water con- 
tent, through exposure to the action of the sun. It appears likely that 



APPLICATION OF DEHYDKATION TO FOODS 21 

fruits were first dried in warm countries, but the custom has long pre- 
vailed among the inhabitants of temperate and northern latitudes. In 
this country the drying of fruits has been practiced since the first coming 
of white men. Dried apples and berries were factors of much impor- 
tance in the winter bills-of-fare of the early colonial settlers as they had 
been in the winter supplies of the Indians. The methods of drying, how- 
ever, were crude, and in consequence, the dried product was poor and by 
no means uniform in quality. 

Sun-drying. — Sun-drying of certain fruits, when carefully done under 
favorable conditions, is productive of excellent results. For example, 
raisins and figs are dried better in the sun than by artificial methods. The 
weather, of course, plays an important role. It must be borne in mind, 
however, that fruit is often subjected to contamination in the open air. 
It is a matter of common knowledge that disease-bearing micro- 
organisms of various kinds, as well as minute organisms which cause de- 
cay in the fruit, may be carried in the blowing dust. J\Ioreover, insects 
attracted by the fruit may deposit their eggs on it. Such possibilities 
can be guarded against, to a large extent, by selecting clean and well- 
protected out-of-door drying places, by avoiding careless and unnecessary 
exposure of the fruit, by washing or sterilizing — in fact, by taking every 
needful precaution. 

Artificial Drying. — During recent years the methods of artificial dry- 
ing and the machinery employed for the purpose have been so greatly im- 
proved that this mode of preserving fruit has largely supplanted the time- 
hallowed ways, in the case of apples, apricots and peaches, at any rate, 
and indeed for mo'st of the fruits grown in the northern parts of America 
and in Europe. The greater cost of artificial methods is more than offset 
by the saving of time and labor. The superiority of the artificially dried 
product in cleanliness and uniformity of the fruit is so obvious as to re- 
quire no emphasis. 

These improvements, furthering the great development of the dried- 
fruit industry in the United States in recent years, have resulted largely 
from the investigations and the eifcrts of the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture and of the agricultural experimental stations. Consequently, the 
large fruit-drying establishments, numerous in the fruit-growing sections 
of this country, which are distinguished by high standards of cleanliness, 
are reaping the reward of their foresight. The subject matter of this 
essay on dried fruits is partly gathered from a bulletin in the Year Book 
of the Department of Agriculture (9) and Farmers' Bulletin(lO) of the 
same department. 



22 PEESEKVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDKATION 

The preparation of dried fruits for the market involves a great deal 
more ingenuity and thought than is usually imagined. It is not a simple 
matter, for although methods vary in different districts and for different 
kinds of fruits, they are one and all founded on a scientific basis, and as 
Langworthy aptly remarks, "The producer who understands the scientific 
reasons for all these processes has the advantage of being able to apply 
them more accurately and economically, and thus to get a better and more 
uniform product even when crops and weather conditions are poor" (9). 

As a rule, nowadays, fruits are dried without the addition of any for- 
eign substance. With regard to the terms used to describe the preparation 
of fruit products under discussion, the appellations, drying, evaporating, 
desiccating and dehydration are all more or less applicable. We have em- 
ployed the term dehydration at the head of the chapter, and although there 
may be fine and nice distinctions qualifying the exact significance of this 
term, after all, it is removal of water which constitutes the principle of the 
process. Dehydration accurately means drawing off moisture. However, in 
the case of fruits, "dried fruit" is the broadest and most appropriate term. 
The various methods used have the same object, the drying of fruits in 
such a way that they shall retain as much of the natural flavor and nutri- 
tive food properties as possible, and at the same time have an attractive 
appearance, be free from contamination of any description, and, above all, 
possess good keeping qualities. 

On the whole, the modem methods of rapid drying produce fruit 
better in flavor, color and texture than fruit dried at home in the old- 
fashioned way. Some think that a better flavor is obtained by sun drying, 
but that rapid, artificial drying imparts a better color. 'The weight of evi- 
dence, however, for the majority of the fruits, the most notable exceptions 
being raisins and figs, is in favor of rapid artificial drying. 

The consumption of dried fruit in this country is very large and is 
increasing; the exports also are very important, showing, from all points 
of view, that the industry of fruit drying is in a remarkably healthy con- 
dition. California easily leads in the production of dried fruits. More 
than 80 per cent of the total amount comes from that state. The present 
output of dried fruits in this country is in excess of 500,000,000 pounds 
annually. 

Dried Prunes — Up to quite recent times apples were the chief fruit 
dried in this country. Recently, however, while the quantity of apples 
so treated increases slowly, the drying of raisins, prunes and peaches pro- 
gresses by leaps and bounds. As long ago as 1909, statistics showed that 
about 12,000,000 pounds of dried apricots, 44,000,000 pounds of dried 



APPLICATION OF DEHYDEATION TO FOODS 23 

peaches and 115,000,000 pounds of prunes were consumed in Amer- 
ica alone. More and more of these fruits are being dried each year. 
Prunes, peaches, apricots and cherries, belonging to the same botanical 
family, are subjected to much the same kind of process, so that a descrip- 
tion of the methods used for drying prunes will exemplify the manner 
in which similar fruits are dried. 

PREPARATION OF FRUIT FOR DEHYDRATION.— It is needless to ex- 
plain that prunes are dried plums. Everyone, however, does not know 
that American California and Oregon plums, in particular, are fast taking 
the lead as the main sources of prune products. In order to have the fin- 
ished product in the very best condition, the greatest care must be taken 
not only in the carrying out of the process itself, but in the prior prepara- 
tion of the fruit. In the first place, the gathering should be done most 
carefully, the fruit should be picked by hand or shaken gently upon sheets 
spread under the trees, the object, of course, being not to bruise them. If 
the plums be not perfectly ripe, they should be exposed to the rays of the 
sun for a day or two, so that their natural sugar content may be increased 
and their water content diminished. The fruit is then graded according 
to size to render the drying more uniform. Cleaning the fruit is the next 
step, followed by treatment of the skin in such a way that the water will 
be all the more quickly evaporated from the interior. Dipping the fruit 
in boiling water is sometimes thought to sufficiently answer the purpose; 
but more frequently this simple method is supplemented by pricking the 
skins with a special apparatus, by dipping the fruit into lye, or by placing 
the sorted prunes into perforated m.etal baskets which are dipped into a 
hot 0.75 per cent solution of potash. The fruit is only kept in this solution 
a very short time, just dipped in and out, and immediately transferred 
to cold water. This is necessary to prevent the prunes from acquiring an 
alkaline taste. The alkaline bath removes the thin coating of wax, the 
so-called bloom, which would interfere with the passage of the water 
through the skin when the drying process is in progress. California prune 
dryers use a soda in preference to a potash solution. Having expedited 
the evaporation of water from the interior, and having washed the alkali 
free, the fruit is ready for drying. 

When the climate is suitable, and the weather permits, prunes are 
sometimes dried in the open air, or in ordinary drying sheds, but most 
frequently artificial means are resorted to, to hasten the process. 

As said before, the question of the best and most rational method of 
preparing dried fruit cannot be answered offhand or in general terms. 
Local conditions largely determine this matter ; the amount and the kind 



24 PBESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION" 

of raw materials available are the most important factors involved. Sun- 
drying in California usually requires from one to two weeks, and artifi- 
cial drying a considerably shorter period of time — the ordinary American 
method requiring from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, according to the 
character of the fruit. 

METHODS OF DEHYDRATION.— At the present time there are three 
principal systems used by those engaged in the fruit-evaporating industry : 
first, the old method of drying in n hot chamber under ordinary atmos- 
pheric conditions ; second, the vacuum system, by which the fruit is dried 
under diminished atmospheric pressure; and third, the dehydrating sys- 
tem, in which the fruit is dried by warm air which has been previously 
cooled at a low temperature so as to deprive it of the moisture which it 
might contain. The advantages claimed for this latter system are that the 
fruit can be dried at a much lower temperature than is possible otherwise, 
because the air being quite dry, can take up large quantities of moisture 
without requiring to be heated. It is also more rapid than the other proc- 
esses. As stated in the remarks on the dehydration of vegetables, this 
method does not injure the cellular structure and consequently vegetables 
and fruits treated by this method retain to a remarkable degree their con- 
tour and full flavor when prepared for the table. 

Dried prunes are "sweated" for two or three weeks and then regraded 
according to the number required to make a pound. After grading they 
are finished or "glossed" by heating in steam or immersing in salted boil- 
ing water, fruit juice or glycerin, by which means the exterior is sterilized 
and a shiny surface is imparted. 

Dried Peaches and Apricots — Peaches and apricots are usually pitted 
before drying. After using the same care in gathering these fruits as in 
the case of plums, in order to avoid bruising, they are then promptly 
prepared for drying. When peaches are peeled before drying, they are 
usually dipped in hot lye to loosen the skin, but apricots are almost in- 
variably dried with their skins on. When the fruit has been pitted and 
cut, it is laid in trays. When sulphuring is practiced, a method which 
will be described briefly when the evaporation of apples is discussed, it 
takes place at this point. The drying proper then follows. 

OLD-FASHIONED METHOD OF DRYING FRUIT.— The following house- 
hold method of drying peaches and plums, which was prevalent in the old 
days, is still practiced in the Southeastern States. The fruit is peeled, 
pitted, mashed, spread out in a thin layer, and dried in an oven or in the 
sun until the mass is tough and resembles leather in appearance. The 
name given to it is peach or plum leather, and it is said to keep indefl- 



APPLICATION OP DEHYDKATION TO FOODS 25 

nitelv, even if only packed in bags. Stone fruits are sometimes preserved 
by housekeepers. The fruit is pitted, sprinkled with sugar, placed in an 
oven moderately heated, kept there until the oven is hot and afterwards 
dried slowly in the sun or in a cool oven. 

Dried Apples — Apples have been artificially dried in this country, at 
least, on a large scale for a longer period than any other fruit. A large 
quantity of apples is still dried in primitive fashion. In country districts 
in which apple cultivation is not carried on extensively, there is frequently 
to be seen during the autumn, apples sliced or quartered for drying in 
the sun, placed on a flat rock, on the roof of a low shed or on any easily 
available flat surface. While, perhaps, the greater part of this sun-dried 
fruit is intended for home consumption, a good deal of it is sent to the 
market and some is exported. 

According to H. P. Gould, the average weight of ripe winter apples 
of mixed varieties is about fifty pounds to the bushel. In evaporating 
them some forty pounds of water per bushel, or approximately five gallons, 
passes off in the form of vapor. The object of the process is to draw oft", 
as rapidly as possible by artificial means, suflicient moisture to prevent 
deterioration through decay or other natural means, and at the same time 
to maintain a desirable texture and flavor. 

More apples are artificially dried than any other fruits, because they 
are gTown more largely in temperate climates. In many of the lands 
in which apples flourish, the changeableness of the weather renders sun 
drying out of the question, hence evaporators are numerous. Some are 
situated in villages near railroad stations or in a central and easily 
reached locality. Many are erected in or about the orchards them- 
selves. The largest evaporators, generally placed in towns or villages, 
are operated by men who make a business of evaporating; consequently 
these plants are of larger capacity and are better constructed in every 
respect than those in the orchards. 

It would be superfluous to enter here into a detailed description of the 
various kinds of evaporators in use. The brief description given a few 
pages back of the three chief systems for dehydrating fruits will suffice. 

Dried apples are produced on a large scale, in three principal forms: 
whole apples, consisting of the smaller fruits which have been peeled and 
the core removed ; split apples, made from larger fruit which have been 
peeled, the seeds removed, and the fruit split lengthwise in six or eight 
sections, and "ring apples," made from large fruit, which after peeling 
and removing of the core, are cut across the core hole into thin flat 
disks. 



26 PKESEKVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDKATION 

It must always be borne in mind that the success of the process of 
drying apples depends mainly on the kind of fruit used. Of course, the 
primary economy of evaporating fruits is in utilizing the surplus fruit and 
poorer grades of fruits, which would otherwise be wasted. Consequently, 
it is this sort of fruit which is usually dried. Nowadays, however, there 
is an increasing demand for dehydrated apples of the best quality. 

An important point which is often overlooked in the selection of apples 
for drying, is the fact that the varieties of apples differ considerably in 
the amount of substance they lose in peeling and coring, and in the weight 
of dried fruit they will give. Water constitutes the greater part of the 
weight of an apple. Some kinds of apples contain more water than others, 
and the water content of the same variety of apples will vary, in some 
degree, according to the season and weather. 

Complicated machines which peel, core and sometimes even slice the 
apple at one operation are in general use. After these operations are com- 
pleted, the apples are as a rule dipped for a few minutes in a weak solu- 
tion of salt and water to prevent the discoloration brought about in several 
varieties of apples by the action of the oxygen in the air. The fumes of 
burning sulphur are employed not only to achieve the same object, but 
to prevent further discoloration after the apple has been sliced, and to 
render the color lighter. The method is also supposed to be necessary to 
kill moths, insects, fungi or hurtful microorganisms. Bleaching by sul- 
phur should be employed immediately after the surface of the apple has 
been exposed to the air by paring. On being removed from the dehydrator 
the fruit should be allowed to stand for the "sweating" to take place, a 
process which generally lasts for several days and which should be carried 
out in the open air or in well-ventilated rooms. 

The proper storage of the dried fruit is important because if brought 
into a damp atmosphere the spongy cells will absorb additional moisture 
which may accumulate to such an extent as to again make the fruit a 
favorable medium for the growth of bacteria. 

Raisins. — The amount of raisins produced in this country is enormous. 
The methods of curing the grapes depend partly upon the purpose for 
which the dried products are intended. The smaller varieties of grapes 
are used for making raisins for cooking purposes, and only the best quality 
of the larger varieties can be deliydrated to make good table or layer 
raisins. Bunches of the latter are first carefully picked over, and the 
dried or unripe fruit discarded. The bunches are then placed on trays 
in the sun. The smaller sultana, the currant varieties and the less attrac- 
tive bunches of grapes of the larger varieties are dipped in weak lye before 



APrLICATION OF DEHYDRATION TO FOODS 27 

they are dried in order to soften the skins slightly and loosen the stems 
which are removed before the raisins are packed. 

Other Dried Fruits. — In days gone by, strawberries, raspberries, black- 
berries, blueberries, barberries, currants and most small native fruits were 
frequently dried at home. This practice has greatly fallen into disuse 
since dehydration and preserving have come into vogue, but still exists in 
a few regions, notably in the mountains of Tennessee, where dietary 
studies made by the Department of Agriculture showed that these dried 
berries were used as staple foods. 

Dates are cured in this country, the date palm having been introduced 
and found to ripen well in Arizona and neighboring regions, but as yet 
the industry is in its infancy. 

While the fig tree can be grown in any mild climate, the varieties suit- 
able for drying can be produced only under special conditions. However, 
most of the diificulties in this direction have been overcome. In Cali- 
fornia, the Smyrna fig has become naturalized, and the dry fig industry in 
that state is assuming goodly proportions. 

Bananas — The banana is not dried in this country, but as it is 
regarded from nearly all standpoints as the most nutritive of fruits, it will 
be pertinent to deal somewhat briefly with the drying of bananas. Ja- 
maica has been, so to speak, the mother of the dried banana industry, and 
it is on this island that the majority of the really important factories for 
drying bananas are now to be found. There are several factories for the 
same purpose in the Philippines. The drying of bananas is done by hot" 
air. The larger pieces of dried banana are generally known as "banana 
figs." 

DRIED BANANA PRODUCTS.— The dried food products made from 
bananas are "banana figs," cooking bananas, banana chips and banana 
flour and meal. All the factories in Jamaica dry or evaporate the bananas 
whole without the addition of sugar, and yet they are as sweet and pal- 
atable as pressed figs. Cooking bananas are so thoroughly dried as to be 
quite hard. Their color is almost white. When broken into pieces, they 
are known as banana chips and are exported to be ground into meal or 
flour. All banana foods are wholesome and nutritious, and, owing to the 
large yield of the fruit and its high carbohydrate content of sugar and 
starch, bananas have long been recognized as a very cheap food, although 
their value from the nutritive and economic standpoints is not yet fully 
appreciated. "Banana figs" are delicious, and cut into small pieces may 
be used like raisins to impart an additional flavor to cakes and puddings. 
The chips after having been well pounded or ground in a coffee or other 



28 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION^ 

hand mill, may be boiled and then used as an excellent breakfast food or 
for making puddings. Gruel, porridge or other preparations made from 
banana meal or flour, which is rich in easily soluble carbohydrates, are 
recommended for infants, invalids and dyspeptics. It is said that the 
negro women of Jamaica use banana meal gruel as a substitute for milk 
for their infant children. An inexpensive and nutritious bread can be 
made from banana flour, or the flour may be admixed with other ingredi- 
ents to make a wholesome and cheap bread. 

Unusual Dried Fruits — The better qualities of the meat in the interior 
of the cocoanut seed, commonly known as copra, is desiccated. It is used 
mainly for flavoring and garnishing purposes in the countries into which 
it is exported. There are several other dried fruits, some of which are 
grown and dried here, but most of which are imported. Among these the 
following may be mentioned: olives from the eastern Mediterranean re- 
gion, where they are eaten as a staple food; dried cactus fruit, in the 
southwestern part of this country, in ^lexico and in lands abutting on the 
Mediterranean; and dried chestnut, much used in European cookery and 
now fairly prevalent in America. In China may be found the lichi nut 
or Chinese raisin. The jujuhe is common in China and Japan, but is lit- 
tle known here except in the form of jujube paste. There is also the carob 
bean or St. John's bread, the dried pods of a European locust bean. 

Of Chinese and Japanese fruits available for drying, the persimmon 
is the most suitable. In some districts of China strains of persimmon are 
'found which are being grown for drying purposes only. A dried persim- 
mon in appearance and flavor resembles a dried fig with the exception 
that it is devoid of small seeds, and is covered with a heavy layer of fine 
grape sugar. The cultivation of persimmons for drying purposes is a 
growing industry in China, where thousands of acres are devoted to this 
purpose. Hundreds of varieties exist, and the trade in China of dried per- 
simmons compares in importance with our trade in dried poaches. 

Comparison of Food Value of Fresh and Dried Fruits — The food value of 
dried fruits is naturally their most important characteristic, although a 
pleasing flavor is an extremely desirable adjunct, as is also their acid con- 
tent, which is believed to aid digestion. The flavor, the aroma and the 
appearance act as stimulants to appetite and, according to present-day 
views, influence the secretion of the gastric juices. 

The flavor of dried fruits is seldom if ever the same as that of fresh 
fruits, but as mentioned before, fruits dehydrated by the most recent 
American process retain to a very considerable degree their fresh taste 
and flavor. 



APPLICATION OP DEHYDRATION TO POODS 



29 



A pound of fresh fruit will yield on an average about six ounces dried. 
The food value then of one pound of dried fruit is greater than that of 
the same weight of fresh, since it has been concentrated by evaporating 
the original water content. 

It goes without saying that the nutritive value of dried fruits, as of 
other foods, in the first instance, depends upon the proportion of food in- 
gredients therein contained, and in a general way the food value is in 
inverse ratio to the water content. Analysis has demonstrated that dried 
fruits which contain from 15 to 80 per cent water — and by the most mod- 
ern methods of dehydration a good deal less water remains — are relatively 
so much the more nutritious than fresh fruits, of which the water contents 
average anywhere from Y5 to 95 per cent. 

The following table will show the average composition of dried fruits 
and fruit products : 

ANALYSIS AND CALORIC VALUE OF DRIED FRUITS (PER POUND) 



Fruits 



Refuse, 
per cent 



Water, 
per cent 



Pro- 
tein, 
per cent 



After 
extract, 
per cent 



Edible Portion 



Nitro- 
gen free 
extract, 
per cent 



Crude 

fiber, 

per cent 



Ash, 
per cent 



Fuel 
value 

per 
pound 



Apples 

Apricots 

Bananas 

Banana flour . . 

Citrons 

Dates 

Figs 

Pears 

Prunes 

Raisins 

Raspberries. . . 
St. John's bread 
Zante currants. 



10.0 



15.0 
10.0 



26.1 
29.4 
29.2 

9.7 
19.0 
15.4 
18.8 
16.5 
22.3 
14.6 

8.1 
17.3 
17.2 



1.6 
4.7 
5.3 
3.1 
.5 
2.1 
4.3 
2.8 
2.1 
2.6 
7.3 
5.7 
2.4 



2.2 
1.0 
2.3 

.5 
1.5 
2.8 

.3 
5.4 

3.3 

1.8 
1.1 
1.7 



62.0 
62.5 
55.5 
83.4 
78.1 
74.6 
68.0 
66.0 
71.2 
73.6 
80.2 
67.0 
71.2 



6.1 

2.1 

.7 

3.5 
6.2 
6.9 
2.1 
2.5 

6.4 
3.0 



2.0 
2.4 
5.3 
2.6 
.9 
1.3 
2.4 
2.4 
2.3 
3.4 
2.6 
2.5 
4.5 



1,350 
1,290 
1,240 
1,610 
1,525 
1,615 
1,475 
1,635 
1,400 
1,605 
1,705 
1.480 
i;495 



The fuel value per pound of fresh apples is only 290 calories ; of apri- 
cots, 270; of bananas, 4G0; of raspberries, 255, and so on. 

While the main change that takes place during the dehydration of 
fruit is the loss of water, other changes likewise occur, varying with the 
kinds of fruits and the methods employed. In dried fruits, the fact must 
be taken into consideration that In contradistinction to fresh fruits, the 
refuse is reduced to a minimum. Moreover, of the small acid content 
found in fresh fruits, as apples, pears, plums, berries, etc., the greater part 
remains in the dried fruits. It has been stated previously that the food 



30 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

value of such fruits is higher the lower the water content. Consequently, 
raisins, dates and figs having on the whole a less water content than dried 
apples, peaches and prunes, contain more nutritive material. The food 
value of fruits, as of vegetables, depends chiefly on the carbohydrates they 
contain in the form of sugar. Protein is so little in evidence in fruits as 
to be practically a negligible quantity. Fats, too, need not be taken into 
account. The mineral constituents of fruits occur in all varieties and are 
important in that they are necessary for the formation of the fluids and 
tissues of the body. 

As sources of nutrition, and more especially of energy, dried fruits 
compare rather with cereals and dry vegetable foods than with fresh fruits. 
In many respects they even compare favorably with the former, although 
it should not be forgotten that they yield less protein than cereals and 
legumes and only extremely small quantities of fat. However, dehydrated 
fruits, some more than others, retain a certain amount of the properties 
of fresh fruits. For instance, many fruits have a laxative action — indeed 
they are often eaten for this very purpose, and the effect appears to be 
equally as potent with dried as with fresh fruits. The manner of de- 
hydrating by the most advanced American methods seems to be not only 
effective in conserving fruits, but, to a large extent, in preserving their 
original properties. 

Economic Advantages of Dried Fruit. — The economy of dehydrating 
fruit can be conclusively proven without the least difficulty. It is obvious 
that dehydrated fruit is economical because it has a higher food value than 
fresh fruit, and because of the ease by which it can be transported, on ac- 
count of its keeping properties and its small bulk, thus preventing the sac- 
rifice of surplus supply or fruit of inferior quality. But from the point 
of view of cost, dehydrated fruits are economical. Even now these fruits 
may be termed reasonable in price compared with many other ordinary 
articles of diet. This has been demonstrated by a large number of studies 
made in connection with the nutrition investigations of the Office of Ex- 
periment of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. From these studies, 
and from information derived from other sources, these conclusions may 
be with fairness drawn. Since all the fruit products contain little pro- 
tein, they are more expensive by far than the cereals and dried legumes 
and most animal foods. On the other hand, as sources of energy, derived 
almost wholly from their sugars and other carbohydrate contents, de- 
hydrated fruits are a great deal cheaper than meats, compare favorably 
with dairy products, but are more expensive than cereals arid starchy 
vegetables, as dried beans or potatoes. 



APPLICATION OF DEHYDRATION TO FOODS 



31 



So far as a comparison of one dehydrated fruit with another is con- 
cerned, that is as regards its food value, the cheaper compare favorably 
with the more expensive kinds. 

The following table will show the comparative cost of total nutrients 
and energy in some fresh and dried fruits and other food materials at cer- 
tain average prices in 1907. Since that time prices have advanced con- 
siderably, but the comparison will still hold good, except, perhaps, that the 
price of meat will be relatively higher at the present time than that of 
dried fruit. 

COMPARATIVE COST OF TOTAL NUTRIENTS AND FUEL VALUE 
OF SOME FRESH AND DRIED FRUITS 



Kind of Food 
Material 



Price 

per 

Pound 



Cost of 
1 pound 
Protein 



Cost of 

1,000 

Calories 

Energy 



Total 
Weight 
of Food 
material 



Amounts for Ten Cents 



Protein 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrate 



Energy 



Fresh fruits: 

Apples 

Plums 

Grapes 

Dried fruits: 

Apples 

Dates 

Figs 

Prunes 

Raisins 

Porterhouse steak 

Whole milk 

Skim milk 

White bread 

Sugar 

Dried beans 



Cents 

1.5 
3.0 
4.0 

12.0 

10.0 

15.0 

10.0 

10.0 

25.0 

3.5 

2.0 

5.0 

6.0 

5.0 



Dollars 

5.00 
3.33 
4.00 

7.50 
5.26 
3.50 
5.56 
4.35 
1.31 
1.06 
.59 
.54 

.22 



Cents 

7.3 

8.1 

11.9 

8.9 

6.9 

10.2 

8.4 

6.9 

22.5 

10.5 

11.8 

4.2 

3.2 

3.1 



Lbs. 

6.67 
3.33 
2.50 

.83 
1.00 

.67 
1.00 
1.00 

.40 
2.86 
5.00 
2.00 
1.67 
2.00 



Lbs. 

.02 
.03 
.03 

.01 
.02 
.03 
.02 
.02 
.07 
.09 
.17 
.18 

'.45 



Lbs. 

.02 

.03 

.02 
.03 



.03 
.07 
.11 
.02 
.03 

.03 



Lbs. 

.72 
.64 
.36 

. .55 
.71 
.50 
.62 
.69 

.14 

.26 

1.06 

1.67 

1.19 



Calories 

1,467 
1,232 

837 

1,121 

1,450 

988 

1,190 

1,445 

444 

925 

850 

2,430 

3,106 

3,210 



From a broad outlook, it appears plainly evident that dried fruits are 
the cheapest of the fruit products and the most economical. Neither fresh 
nor dried fruits can be rightly regarded as a luxury, since they add con- 
siderably to the food value of a diet, and vary the monotony of the daily 
fare. Dried fruits in sealed cartons or packages are much safer because 
they are less easily soiled than when sold in open boxes. There is little 
doubt that the fruit products dehydrated by the most up-to-date American 
processes are cleaner by far and better in every respect than those sub- 
jected to the old-fashioned methods and are superior to the imported 
varieties. 



32 PKESEKVATlOiY OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

DEHYDRATED VEGETABLES 

Dehydration is absolutely the correct term to apply to the process used 
for preserving vegetables by withdrawing the moisture which has been de- 
veloped and it may almost be said perfected in this country. 

Importance of Dehydrated Vegetables as Food. — In the introduction to 
this chapter, stress was laid with intent upon the supreme importance of 
dehydrating vegetable foodstuffs in such a manner that when prepared for 
feeding purposes they resemble in all their salient and essential features 
these same vegetables in their original form. It was pointed out that 
vegetables thus treated furuished an economical advance of immeasurable 
value, since vegetables far more than fruits provide all the forms of nutri- 
tive material necessary to maintain the human organism at a high stand- 
ard of health. Some vegetables from their protein content are fairly sat- 
isfactory substitutes for meat ; others are valuable as foods because of their 
carbohydrate and fat content. In order to make up a well-balanced dietary 
and to avoid constipation, that bane of this age, the consumption of a cer- 
tain amount of vegetables is always indicated. 

It is difficult, even frequently impossible, except at prohibitive prices, 
to procure really fresh vegetables at all times of the year. It is true that 
one can always buy canned vegetables, but canned goods have their draw- 
backs. Dehydrated vegetables, when properly prepared, retain their orig- 
inal flavor in a far higher degree than the ordinary canned vegetables and 
cereals ; a few vegetables are improved in flavor by dehydration. The pre- 
dominating advantages of this process lie not only in the facility and cer- 
tainty with which vegetables and cereals can be preserved for a great 
length of time without any clearly perceptible loss of taste, flavor or nutri- 
tive properties, but in the ease with which they can be transported owing 
to their small bulk. 

Methods of Dehydrating Vegetables. — It may be stated emphatically 
that no single device for the preservation of foodstuff excels that of de- 
hydration. Apart from the element of cost, the use of an extreme degree 
of heat to drive out moisture has the objection that in some cases it so 
alters the product that it is no longer an agreeable article of diet. Heat 
also removes desirable volatile ingredients. It may be pointed out that 
flavors, which play a very important part in rendering a food palatable 
and acceptable, are, as Mendel shows, not always thermostabile. 

The most destructive criticism that can be brought against the use 
of heat, particularly at high temperatures, as a mode of drying food- 
stuffs is that high temperatures for a prolonged period are liable to 



II 



APPLICATIOK OF DEHYDRATION TO FOODS 33 

seriously injure the vitamine element. The presence or absence of this 
element, in fact, when a diet is restricted to one or two food materials, 
makes all the diifereuce between health and disease. Therefore it would 
seem to be the bouuden duty of those engaged in the dehydrated food 
industry to take every precaution not to destroy or injure these "accessory 
diet factors" known as vitamines. It is stated by those who have had 
experience with the American process of dehydration that because the 
heat employed is not intense, and because the time during which the 
food material is subjected to the process is not long, that the vitam- 
ine substances are in no wise prejudicially affected. The main dehy- 
drating characteristics of the system are the comparatively low tempera- 
ture which insures the retention of all the valuable properties of the food 
treated and the thorough circulation of the air currents which permeate 
vegetables or fruits in such a way that most effective dehydration is the 
result. 

Enough has been said as to the system of dehydration best calculated 
to fulfill the purpose desired, and the only excuse for being somewhat 
prolix about the matter is that the success of a dehydrating method 
depends entirely upon its mode of working. If the finished product, to 
use a rather clumsy expression, is not as nutritive, palatable and attractive 
in appearance when prepared for the table as the vegetable in its original 
form, or nearly so, then its other obvious advantages — small bulk and 
keeping properties — cannot compensate for this lack. 

Dehydrated Potatoes. — The potato is, of all the vegetables, the most 
important. Of the starchy group the common potato easily occupies the 
first place, both in regard to nutritive value and to the wide range of its 
cultivation. In this country the sweet potato comes next in popularity, 
usefulness and consumption. In 1909(11) it was shown that in the 
average of 376 American dietary studies, potatoes were found to furnish 
12.5 per cent, or about one-eighth, of the total food material, and 8.3 per 
cent, or about one-twelfth, of the carbohydrates. All other vegetables 
together furnished only 7.8 per cent of the total food and 3.7 of the carbo- 
hydrates. The structure, composition and nutritive properties of the 
potato have been exhaustively dealt with in Volume I, Chapter XIII, 
therefore it will be superfluous to discuss this phase of the question 
further. Attention will now be concentrated upon a consideration of 
dehydrated potatoes, their virtues and drawbacks. 

METHODS OF DEHYDRATION.— It may be well imagined that efforts 
have been made to preserve, in a compact form, a food substance of so 
great value in the diet as is the potato. This object has been brought 



34 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

about by drying, which reduces their bulk and prevents decay. The 
word drying is used here intentionally, because dehydration is a recent 
method, and potatoes have been dried in various ways for a great num- 
ber of years. The method known as ^'chunno" is one of the oldest and 
has been employed in Peru for a very long time. This procedure consists 
of pressing part of the juice out of the potatoes, which are then dried in 
the air until they are reduced to about one-fourth of their original weight. 
Methods of a similar kind have been and are practiced in Europe and 
America, and while these differ considerably, one of the main objects 
to be attained always remains the same, namely, the inhibiting of the 
growth of germs. 

As has been pointed out previously, decay is mainly caused by bac- 
teria, which can only grow where moisture and warmth exist, so that, if 
moisture be removed, growth is inhibited, and the keeping qualities of 
the potato are prolonged indefinitely. 

COMPOSITION OF DEHYDRATED PRODUCT,— The composition of pota- 
toes which have undergone one of these processes is here given, together 
with the composition of raw and cooked potatoes, for purposes of 
comparison : 

COMPOSITION AND FUEL VALUE OF THE POTATO UNDER 
VARIOUS METHODS OF PREPARATION 



Kind of Food 



Refuse 


Water 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Sugar, 

starch, 

etc. 


Crude 
fiber 


Ash 


Per cent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


20.0 


62.6 


1.8 


.1 


13.8 


.9 


.8 




78.3 
75.5 


2.2 
2.5 


.1 
.1 


18.0 
20.3 


.4 
.6 


1.0 
1.0 




75.1 


2.6 


3.0 


17.5 




1.5 




2.2 


6.8 


29.8 


46.7 




4.5 




7.1 
35.3 


8.5 
9.2 


.4 
1.3 


80.9 
52.6 


.5 


3.1 
1.1 



Fuel 

value 

per 

pound 

Calories 



Potato as pur- 
chased 

Potato, edible por- 
tion 

Potato, boiled . . . 

Potato, mashed 
and seasoned . . 

Potatoes, fried in 
fat, "potato 
chips" 

Potato, evap- 
orated 

White bread 



310 

375 
440 

505 



2,675 

1,680 
1,215 



Naturally, if extreme heat is used in the process, some of the starch 
content may be changed into dextrin and other minor changes in the 
chemical composition may take place. However, there is no reason to 



APPLICATI0:N^ of dehydration to foods 35 

suppose that the nutritive value of the potato is decreased by these changes. 

Langworthy, in the bulletin referred to above, states that various 
kinds of desiccated potatoes have been studied at the California Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station. Their water content ranged from 4.8 to 
7.9 per cent and their total carbohydrates from 77.9 to 80.6 per cent. 
Their general composition somewhat resembled that of good white flour. 
They contained slightly less water, slightly more carbohydrates and 
noticeably more mineral matters. Dehydrated potatoes should be soaked 
in water before use, in the same way as other dehydrated vegetables. By 
this means they will regain some or most of their original properties. 

POTATO FLOUR.— With regard to the value of potato flour, which, as 
just pointed out, resembles good white flour : it has been frequently em- 
ployed in the manufacture of what have been termed "economy breads." 
The potato is very largely grown in Germany, and in that country the 
value of the addition of potato meal to wheat flour for the purpose of 
making bread of a cheaper sort was recognized in 1914 as an economical 
war measure. In Germany and Austria the bakers were compelled by 
law to use at least 30 per cent potato meal in making their bread. 
It has been found, as the result of experiments made by the Bureau of 
Chemistry of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, that the most satis- 
factory loaves, combining economy and appearance, were those made 
with 30 per cent potato meal, or even less. The bread has a rather coarse 
texture and dark appearance, but is said to possess a distinctive and 
pleasant flavor. It should be said that the Bureau of Chemistry em- 
ployed the imported "potato flake" in some of its experiments and in 
others meal made by slicing, milling and drying potatoes on a small 
scale in its laboratories. 

Sweet Potato — The sweet potato, from a nutritive point of view, that 
is, from an analysis of its component parts, is similar to the ordinary 
kind. It contains rather less water and rather more carbohydrates, and 
supplies somewhat more tissue-building material, pound for pound. The 
carbohydrates found in sweet potatoes contain more sugar than in the 
white varieties, but the proportion of sugar and starch varies with the 
climate. In hot countries there is more and in temperate climates less 
sugar. 

Dried sweet potatoes were at one time a home product. In days long 
passed, strings of them might be seen hanging from the kitchen rafters 
in the company of apples and other dried fruits and vegetables. Modern 
drying methods and storage warehouses have almost sounded the death- 
knell of this custom. When sweet potatoes are first gathered, they 



36 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

are allowed to "sweat" for some time before they are stored. When 
grown on a large scale they are sometimes "kiln-dried," that is, sub- 
jected to a temperature of 90° F. or thereabouts for a week or so. They 
are then dried more slowly and at a lower temperature in the usual way. 
Special devices for dehydrating sweet potatoes, in the same way as white 
potatoes and other vegetables, are now largely used. While the greater 
part of the sweet potato crop is used for human food, stock are fed with 
some of the coarser kinds; some also are used for the preparation of 
sweet potato flour. 

Starch-yielding Tubers — The tubers are sliced, dried and ground. 
They are also used for the manufacture of starch. There are several 
tropical starch-bearing roots, as the cassava, yam, yautia and taro. The 
cassava is very nutritious, and its meal makes an excellent bread which 
is palatable and wholesome. Analysis of this vegetable shows water 
content 10.5 per cent, protein 9.1, fat 0.3 per cent, total carbohydrates 
79, and a fuel value of 1,650 calories per pound. Yams, often con- 
founded with sweet potatoes, belong to a group of climbing plants. The 
flours and starches prepared from these differ from wheat flour in that 
they contain no true gluten. 

Beets. — Of the succulent roots, tubers and bulbs, beets are, on the 
whole, the most important. These possess considerable value as food; 
directly they are used as vegetable food, also as the source of the sugar 
supply; indirectly they contribute on a very wide scale to the food of 
the inhabitants of all the world by furnishing provender for farm animals. 

BEET-SUGAR INDUSTRY.— No industry in America is more likely to 
be revolutionized by the improvements effected in the methods of dehy- 
dration than the beet-sugar industry. In 1916 the area used for beet 
cultivation amounted to 680,000 acres, the beets totalled 6,671,000 short 
tons, and the production of sugar was in the neighborhood of 900,000 
tons. In this country undoubtedly sufficient beets can be grown, and 
consequently enough sugar can be produced therefrom to make us inde- 
pendent of outside supplies. Many difficulties arising in the manufacture 
of beet sugar may be wholly or partially solved by dehydration. Where 
sugar beets are not grown near a factory, the transportation is, generally 
speaking, too costly to render their cultivation profitable. In the next 
place, the time for harvesting is short, and in order to preserve the 
surplus supply, that is, the stock which the sugar factory temporarily 
cannot deal with, it is frequently deposited in silos. An inevitable loss 
occurs, owing to fermentation or even to decay of the beets. Also, under 
existing circumstances, a beet-sugar factory is compelled to remain idle 



APrLICATION OF DEHYDRATION TO FOODS 37 

during some nine months of the year, simply because beets can be sup- 
plied to it only for a hundred days or so yearly. 

ADVANTAGES OF DEHYDRATION OF BEETS.— The economic gain due 
to methods of dehydration would be very great, and the cost of sugar 
reduced a great deal, if these factories could work from the beginning 
to the end of the year. The advocates of dehydration claim that the 
adoption of this process in the case of sugar beets would bring about an 
ideal state of affairs. Certainly it would be possible to convey the beets 
long distances at a little cost on account of their small bulk, and it 
would also be possible to keep them without risk of deterioration until 
such time as it was most convenient to use them. The new scheme pro- 
vides for the establishment of dehydrating plants at points near refineries, 
anywhere near railroads in a zone of four hundred miles therefrom. 

The beets received from the farmers of the neighborhood at the 
dehydrating plants could be cut into small slices, cassettes, and at once 
dehydrated in this form, which is suitable for refining later. One short 
ton of beets is reduced in weight to 500 pounds by the process. Accord- 
ing to R. G. Skerrett, referred to previously, the percentage loss of 
cossettes, measured by dry substance polarization, was only 1.66 after 
730 days, and curiously enough there was a decrease of nearly 50 per 
cent of the original moisture. Furthermore, on account of the relatively 
low temperature employed, enzymic action was not impeded by dehydra- 
tion, and sugar production continued for a time. Hence, dehydration 
of the cossettes by the most recent process actually promotes this con- 
version of normal sugar of the beets and reduces the cost of running the 
refinery and of transportation. If this novel process of dehydration 
exercises such an effect upon beets, there is no need to expatiate on its 
self-evident value. 

Carrots, Parsnips, Salsify, Turnips. — Of the other so-called succulent 
root crops used as food, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips and onions 
are the most common. Carrots are dehydrated on a large scale and 
resemble fresh carrots in composition. 

Dehydrated Foods Used in the Army. — In feeding the soldiers of the 
Allied Forces it was naturally a stupendous task to keep them supplied 
with wholesome and nourishing food. Well-balanced rations are essen- 
tial to the maintenance of good health, and especially to men engaged 
in the arduous and devitalizing duties of trench warfare. In order to 
Have a well-balanced diet a sufficient quantity of vegetables is needed; 
but in view of the difficulties of transportation across the Atlantic, the 
tonnage of this enormous amount of vegetable foodstuff had to be kept 



38 PEESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 




Fig. 1. — The Vegetables at the Right, U'hex Dried, W'ua. Have Only the Bulk of 
THE Small Pile at the Left. (Courtesy of the Scientific American.) 




Fig. 2. — ^The Bucket and Milk Bottles Contain the Water Extracted from This 
Box OF Vegetables. (Courtesy of the Scientific American.) 



APPLICATION OF DEHYDRATION TO FOODS 



39 



as low as possible, while at the same time furnishing the field kitchens 
with adequate stores. It was entirely beyond the scope of human en- 
deavor, in fact, for the warring governments to ship whole cargoes of 
fresh vegetables in cold storage and later to transfer and convey them 
many hundreds of miles to the firing lines. For a long time canned 
vegetables were in great demand, indeed vegetable food was shipped 




Fig. 3. — ^This Barbel of Dehydrated Vegetables Represents Thirty Barrels of 
Greex Vegetables. It is sufficient to make soup for 6,000 men. (Courtesy of the 
Scientific American.) 



mainly in this form. The French were the first to recognize the possi- 
bilities of dehydrated vegetables as an economical measure, and from 
this country and Canada have imported tremendous quantities of vege- 
tables treated by this process. Celery, cabbage and carrots are largely 
grown in Monroe and Wayne counties, New York, where there are a 
large number of evaporators. Accordingly this part of New York State 
was drawn upon for supplies of these dehydrated vegetables. At the 



40 PKESERVATIOX OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

time of writing the French Government contracts with a produce com- 
pany of Belleville, Ontario, to furnish its AVar Department with all the 
dehydrated vegetables it can supply. The vegetables desired are celery, 
cabbage, carrots, onions, potatoes and turnips. These crops when dehy- 
drated are mixed after a certain formula and placed in fifteen-pound 
cans, which are sealed and shipped to the French Army, where they are 
used for making stews for the soldiers. 

Celery. — Celery for dehydrating purposes may be in almost any con- 
dition, as long as it is free from disease. Any variety may be used, but 
the unblanched green winter kind is preferred, as it retains its flavor 
and color best. The celery is packed in the rough or is conveyed loose 
to the evaporator, where it is weighed and stacked ready for further 
preparation and treatment. After the roots and dead leaves have been 
removed, the celery is placed in the washing vat, thoroughly cleansed, 
and is then carried to the cutting machine, whence the shredded celery 
drops into a box through which runs a continuous belt elevator. In this 
manner the shredded material is taken to the second floor, where it is 
caught in large baskets and conveyed to the drying bins. 

METHOD OF DEHYDRATION.— The kiln method is employed here 
which is fully described in Farmers' Bulletin No. 291. Before placing 
the shredded celery in the drying bin, the kilns are heated to a tempera- 
ture of 160° to 180° F. After the process has been completed the celery 
is shoveled from the bin and placed in bags for shipment. 

Cabbage, Onions, etc. — The processes involved in the dehydration of 
cabbage are similar to those used for celery, except that the cabbage is 
not cleaned before shredding. The method used in drying onions is 
very like the method just described. The preparation of the product 
before shredding, however, is different. The tops and remains of roots 
are removed by hand and the onion is peeled by machinery. It is 
shredded before being elevated to the drying bins. The relative weights 
of green vegetables and those which have undergone the kiln evaporator 
process are as follows: 

1 ton of green celery .... 150 pounds when dried 

1 ton of green cabbage .. . 150 to 175 pounds when dried 

1 ton of green carrots .... 200 pounds when dried 

1 bushel of onions 5 pounds when dried 

Under the contract with the French Government the finished product 
is allowed to contain, at the maximum, 15 per cent of moisture. This 
requires a drying period of from twelve to fourteen hours, according to 



APPLICATION OF DEHYDRATION TO FOODS 41 

the degree of heat produced by the kihis. The cost of treating the vege- 
tables hy the above process is as follows : 

Green celery $10 per ton 

Cabbage $8 per ton 

Carrots $10 per ton 

Onions 10 cents per bushel 

ADVANTAGES OF THE KILN METHOD FOR THESE VEGETABLES.— 
The kiln process has been in vog-ue the longest and is at the present time 
most used in this country. The use of circulating heated air at a com- 
paratively low temperature for dehydrating vegetables is theoretically 
scientific and practically is superior to methods which rely upon heat 
alone, or mainly, as a means of dehydration. Turnips, parsnips and all 
other vegetables can be dehydrated, and the description of the procedure 
followed in one case will apply to all. Fresh carrots contain : refuse, 20.0 
per cent; water, 88.2 per cent; protein, 1.1 per cent; fat, A per cent; 
sugar, starch, etc., 8.2 per cent; crude fiber, 1.1 per cent and ash, 1.0 per 
cent. The fuel value per pound is 210 calories. Carrots dried by the 
kiln process contain: water, 3.5 per cent; protein, 7.7 per cent; fat, .6 per 
cent; sugar, starch, etc., crude fiber, 83.3 per cent; and ash, 4.9 per cent. 
Fuel value per pound, 1,790 calories. 

Beans — It is often said, and indeed the view is widely circulated, 
that dried legumes are the rational and the best substitutes for meat. 
This is true to a large extent, as the dried legume is very rich in protein 
and in energy-giving constituents. However, drawbacks exist in certain 
legumes, principally in beans, which somewhat detract from their food 
value. In the first place, in preparing beans for the table by the usual 
methods, they become less concentrated, whereas the cooking of meat 
renders it more concentrated. In the one case water has been added; 
in the other water has been removed by the roasting or broiling. Dried 
beans are also liable to cause flatulence, due to the slow rate at which 
they are digested and, perhaps, to their sulphur content. Still, it can- 
not be denied that dried beans and lentils are wholesome, valuable and 
nutritious foods which may be prepared in many ways as the staple diet, 
and which are, all in all, the most satisfactory svibstitutes for meat. 

COMPOSITION OF FRESH AND DRIED BEANS.— The following table, 
taken from Farmers^ Bulletin 121 — 315 of the U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, shoAvs the composition of fresh and dried legumes, compared 
with that of some other foods : 



42 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 



COMPOSITION AND FUEL VALUE OF FRESH AND DRIED 

LEGUMES 



Material 



Water 



Protein 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrate 



Ash 



Fuel 

value 

per 

pound 



Fresh legumes: 
String beans 

" peas 

Shelled kidney beans . . . 

" lima beans 

" peas 

" cowpeas 

Canned string beans — 

" lima beans 

" kidney beans. . . 

" peas 

Dried legiunes : 

Lima beans 

Navy beans 

Lentils 

Peas 

Cowpeas 

Soy beans 

Cluck peas 



Per cent 

89.2 
81.8 
58.9 
68.5 
74.6 
65.9 
93.7 
79.5 
72.7 
85.3 

10.4 
12.6 
8.4 
9.5 
13.0 
10.8 
14.8 



Per cent 

2.3 
3.4 
9.4 
7.1 
7.0 
9.4 
1.1 
4.0 
7.0 
3.6 

18.1 
22.5 
25.7 
24.6 
21.4 
34.0 
12.4 



Per cent, 

.3 
.4 
.6 
.7 
.5 
.6 
.1 
.3 
.2 
.2 

1.5 
1.8 
1.0 
1.0 
1.4 
16.8 
6.7 



Per cent 

7.4 
13.7 
29.1 
22.0 
16.9 
22.7 

3.8 
14.6 
18.5 

9.8 

65.9 
59.6 
59.2 
62.0 
60.8 
33.7 
63.3 



Per cent 



.7 
2.0 
1.7 
1.0 
1.4 
1.3 
1.6 
1.6 
1.1 

4.1 
3.5 
5.7 
2.9 
3.4 
4.7 
2.8 



Calories 

195 
335 
740 
570 
465 
620 
95 
360 
480 
255 

1,625 
1,605 
1,620 
1,655 
1,590 
1,970 
1,690 



As the great majority of these legumes are lacking in fat, it is a 
rational and natural proceeding to add salt pork to the baked beans and 
bacon to cowpeas. 

It may be estimated that a pint of these dried legumes and a half 
pound of pork have a protein content exceeding a pound and a half of 
uncooked meat of average composition. Moreover, since this combina- 
tion is rich in starch as well as in fat and protein, it may serve as a 
substitute for potato and meat. 

LIMA BEANS.— Lima beans possess great fuel value. They are, how- 
ever, not sufficiently appreciated as a table food because it is not generally 
known that they can be used in a dried state in practically the same 
manner as are the common beans. In reality they are richer and more 
delicate in flavor than the common beans. 

SOY BEAN.— In far Eastern countries, where the supply of animals 
suitable for food is small and where a large proportion of the inhabitants 
are interdicted by religion and caste from killing or eating animals, 
recourse has been had to the vegetable kingdom to make up this lack of 
animal food. Legumes are the vegetables used, the soy bean in particu- 



APPLICATIOT^^ OF BEHYDKATION TO FOODS 43 

lar. Altlioiigh somewhat of a digression, it will not be out of place to 
state in this connection that the soy bean is more important than rice 
as food for the inhabitants of Asia. The idea is popular that the people 
of India and China subsist almost wholly upon rice, whereas the truth 
is that, while enormous quantities of rice are consumed in these coun- 
tries, the soy bean supplies the protein element essential to the conser- 
vation of health. 

The soy bean is employed by these peoples in a variety of ways. 
The nitrogenous material and a considerable amount of the fat of the 
beans are separated and made into a number of special articles of diet, 
as bean cheese or bean curd, and soy, a thick brown sauce used by millions 
of people as a flavoring material and condiment. By this means the 
necessary nitrogenous element and flavor are added to the otherwise taste- 
less rice, vegetables and other foods which form their diet. 

Soy Bean Flour. — A soy bean flour has been made which is said by 
Friedcnwald and Euhrah(12) to be most useful. It has the following 
composition : 

Constituent Per Cent 

Protein 44.64 

Fat 19.43 

Mineral matter 4.20 

Moisture 5.26 

Crude fiber 2.35 

Cane sugar 9.34 

Non-nitrogenous extract 14.78 

Starch none 

Reducing sugars none 

Polarization normal weight due to optically active substance 
other than cane sugar included in protein and non- 
nitrogenous extract 7.80 

The percentage of protein in this flour is almost one-third greater than 
the percentage of protein in the whole beans. This is caused by remov- 
ing the coarse fibrous hulls which contain little protein. The composition, 
of this flour may be compared with round of beef, medium, which con- 
tains: protein, 19.0 per cent; fat, 12.8 per cent; and moisture, 60.7 per 
cent. Each ounce of this soy gruel flour yields about 13 grams of pro- 
tein and 120 calories. It can be used as a gruel, in broths and in 
making biscuits. 

COOKING OF BEANS.— As W. S. Hall (13) has pointed out, dried 
legumes require very thorough cooking, considerably more than other 
foods. This prolonged cooking is necessary because the nutrients, en- 



44 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

closed within the walls of the plant cells, are inaccessible to the digestive 
juices until the cell walls have been broken down by cooking and masti- 
cation. The grinding of dried legumes into meal greatly facilitates the 
cooking and the mastication, and in consequence the digestibility. Owing 
also to the fact that dried legumes, such as navy beans and dried peas, 
are somewhat difficult of digestion, unless made into purees, they are less 
well adapted for general use in the dietaries of people of sedentary occu- 
pation than for those who are engaged in active out-of-door pursuits. 

FOOD VALUE OF BEANS— The high nutritive value of dried beans, 
cowpeas and other legumes, due to their protein content, renders this 
class of food very useful as meat substitutes. Comparing the nutritive 
value of dried legumes and meat, it is found that two-thirds of a pint of 
dried beans, cowpeas or lentils is equal to one pound of heef of average 
composition. 

Com — In earlier times com was dried or evaporated for domestic 
use by most housewives in rural districts, and at the present time sweet, 
corn in the milky stage of its development is frequently preserved by 
means of dehydration. Sweet corn is a satisfactory vegetable to dehy- 
drate. It retains its flavor and sugar content to a remarkable degi'ee. 

RELATION OF SPOILED CORN TO PELLAGRA.— One of the chief theories 
as to the causation of pellagra is that it is due to the eating of spoiled 
corn, the staple diet of the inhabitants of those countries or districts in 
which the disease is most prevalent. In Italy, this belief, inspired and 
fc^^ered by the views of Lombroso, has been responsible for prophylactic 
measures directed mainly against the use of damaged com as an article 
of food. Dehydrating or desiccating plants have been established for 
the artificial drying of corn there to prevent waste. These desiccators 
are of two types, fixed and portable. At present there are a large num- 
ber of public plants for dehydrating corn throughout Italy. 

Use of Vegetable Flours — In a previous part of this chapter reference 
has been made to "economy loaves." These are made partially or wholly 
from a flour less expensive in these days and more easily obtainable 
than wheat flour. The advantages of dried bananas among the fruit 
products and dehydrated potatoes among the vegetable products were 
discussed. Other flours made from fruits and vegetables — from dried 
chestnuts, the soy bean, the white bean and several other varieties of 
bean, cottonseed, cassava and peas — offer promise of furnishing the 
public with a cheap and nutritious bread. The soy bean and cottonseed 
flours when mixed with wheat flours in* proper proportions, about 25 per 
cent, furnish a bread with about twice the amount of protein that ordinary 



SUMMARY 45 

wheat bread contains. Stress should be laid upon the fact that wheat 
flour is not essential for the production of a good, nutritious and whole- 
some bread. A bread made of some other cereal, of corn, for example, will 
in almost all respects equal bread made from wheat flour. The addition 
of a vegetable or fruit to wheat flour, as the dried potato, bean, banana 
or chestnut, will not detract from the food value and will be more eco- 
nomical and quite as satisfactory as a bread made from wheat flour, 
cornmeal or rye flour alone. 

Yeast. — A food material which comes under the head of vegetable 
products and which when dehydrated is now somewhat largely used as 
food for man and beast, is yeast. The main object in drying yeast is 
to utilize to the fullest extent its excellent food properties and to make 
it available for transportation over long distances. Up to the present 
time the constructors of yeast dehydrators have relied chiefly upon the 
experience gained in the construction of potato driers. The working 
principle of all the yeast driers on the market is practically the same. 
The moist yeast passes over steam-heated cylinders, where it is freed 
from most of its water in the fraction of a minute. Scientific researches 
have shown that dehydrated yeast is one of the richest of concentrated 
foods, and attention may be called to the fact that the food value of such 
yeast cannot be estimated in the same way as the food value of other 
foods, such as potatoes, wheat or corn. It is considerably higher on account 
of special dietetic properties. Yeast has a very high vitamine content. 

Dry yeast has given good results when fed to domestic animals. It is 
stated that when milch cows are fed upon it the yield of butter is increased. 

According to J. C. Smith (14), it has been demonstrated that a 
great many inexpensive and nutritive dishes can be prepared from de- 
bittered, dried yeast, and physiological experiments have shown that this 
food yeast is wholesome and very easily digested. Experiments have 
shown that one pound of dried yeast is equal in food value to 3.3 pounds 
of average fat beef, and furthermore its advocates state that it is not 
only valuable as an article of food, but is indicated as a means of invig- 
orating devitalized individuals. 

SUMMARY 

The domestic dehydration of vegetables and fruits is becoming a 
quite common practice. The best and most eflicient form of a home 
dehydrator is that which withdraws the water by the agency of dry 
steam, and not by hot air. 



46 PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

Success of Dehydration. — Practically all vegetables and fruits can be 
successfully dehydrated commercially by employing heated air at a com- 
paratively low temperature for a rather short period of time. In this 
process the air currents should thoroughly penetrate the vegetables and 
fruits subjected to the treatment. To a lesser extent the above remarks 
apply to the dehydration of animal foods. Meat does not lend itself 
particularly well to this mode of preservation, but the desiccation of 
milk with retention of its solubility, nutritive properties and vitamine 
elements intact, if not an accomplished fact, is in a fair way of becoming 
so ere long. As Mendel has said, "If the best dried milk of the future 
shall be shown to retain even the more subtle physiological properties, 
such as its antiscorbutic potency, it will represent good achievement." 
A dried milk does not deteriorate and is sterile, most important factors 
in the conservation of the public health. 

With the possible exception of milk, the dehydration of animal foods 
has not been as successful as in the case of vegetables and fruits. The 
dehydration of fruit is quite satisfactory, so also is the dehydration of 
vegetables. The flavor and taste of certain fruits are more apt to be 
altered or attenuated than that of vegetables. 

Economic Advantages — From the economic aspect, dehydration of food- 
stuffs seems destined to revolutionize the entire food situation. The 
immense waste of vegetables and fruits which is now universal should be 
prevented in the future. The farmer or producer of food products will 
be independent of the local markets. His produce will be dehydrated 
on the most approved system at a nearby plant. Such produce, on 
account of its keeping properties, comparative lightness and small bulk, 
can be delivered at a low cost in this country or abroad. Vegetable3 
weighing a pound can be transported thousands of miles and made into 
soup or stew sufficient for fifty or sixty hearty adults. 

The value of dehydration methods of preserving food to exploring 
parties, to workmen engaged in operations in out-of-the-way parts of the 
world and so on, is so patent as to require neither emphasis nor elabb- 
ration. Enough has been said on the subject of dehydration to show that 
when carried out in a strictly scientific manner, it is a long step in the 
direction of the ideal system of economizing the food supply of a nation. 

In this chapter a certain amount of repetition may be obsen-ed. 
This has been done intentionally in order to emphasize the need for 
economy of food products and to draw attention to dehydration as an 
important factor in the achievement of this object. 

The war has had some redeeming features, some advantages to 



SUMMAHY . 47 

counterbalance, in a slight degree, the dreadful loss of human life and 
the reversion to barbarism which have blackened its course. It has 
aroused the race from the slough of self-indulgence and apathy with 
which many years of peace and prosperity had imbued its members, 
and has taught them with the whip of adversity that self-restraint and 
endurance were still to be regarded as high among the cardinal virtues. 
Perhaps no calamity brought about by the war has served better to teach 
this lesson than the lack of food. Shortage of the food supply quickly 
brings home to all sorts and conditions of men and women the truth 
that food is after all one of the essentials of life and that without a suffi- 
cient provision of food, life is hardly worth living. Consequently, one 
of the effects of the war has been to quicken man's brain to devise means 
for producing more food, to economize that which has been produced, 
to search out and cultivate foods which can be more easily and cheaply 
produced, and to be satisfied with simpler and more wholesome food 
products. The fear of famine has spurred him on in this endeavor. 
Therefore it may be said with truth that the war will be responsible for 
at least a partial, if not the complete, solution of the food problem, and 
that the development of such measures as dehydration of foodstuffs is 
an indirect consequence of the war. 

SCIENTIFIC DEHYDRATION 

Just as the Napoleonic wars of the last century stimulated the devel- 
opment of canning so did the recent World War create a world-wide inter- 
est in dehydration. Previous to the war, dehydration was not a complete 
commercial success. Many drying plants were constructed with such 
total disregard for scientific principles that, if they did not prove an 
utter failure commercially, they were absolutely ridiculous. In the past 
the most common error (15), so Simons thinks, was supplying to the 
dryer an amount of air, which based upon the calculation of its absorptive 
power per cubic foot at a given temperature should be equivalent to carry- 
ing off the water contained in the products to be dried, while no estimate 
was determined as to the best units required to heat the product or to 
convert its water into vapor, which in actual practice required about four 
times as much more heat. The result, of course, of taking these heat 
units from the air is a dyop in its temperature, with consequent loss 
of the water-carrying capacity and complete failure of the drying process. 

In the earlier attempts to put dehydration on a firm commercial 
foundation, the drying air, before being passed over the products to be 



48 PKESERVATION OF FOODS BY DEHYDRATION 

dried, was itself dried by contact with calcium chloride or some similar 
means so as to remove a portion of its moisture and thereby give it greater 
absorptive capacity. This method of first drying the air currents for the 
speedy removal of the surface moisture from the products to be dried 
caused a "hardening" of the outside of the product preventing escape 
of the inner moisture, and consequently prolonging the drying period; 
When the drying period was prolonged a sufficient time and the heat 
was ample to convert the inner water into steam, a violent disruption 
of the cells occurred — resulting in permanent injury to the cell structure 
which prevents the dehydrated product from "coming back" to its origi- 
nal form on the addition of water. 

The application of "radiant energy" to the drying process solved the 
problem which had so long baffled dehydration. The whole problem of 
drying scientifically, depends on the rate at which the inside moisture 
is brought to the surface, and anything which can increase this rate, with- 
out other harmful results, will make for greater efficiency in the drying 
system. The application of "radiant energy" acting directly upon the 
material to be dried, gives increased heat without increasing the tempera- 
ture of the drying air. As. a consequence the rapidity of the flow of 
moisture from the "inner water" of the substance to be dried was greatly 
increased and the whole drying operation much improved. 

The application of "radiant energy" converted into heat in the in- 
terior of the product raises the vapor pressure to a higher point than 
the surface of the product, from which moisture is evenly and constantly 
evaporating, and as a consequence the movement of the moisture from 
the interior to the outer surface is hastened. The problem of "radiant 
energy" in scientific dehydration is not without perplexities. The opera- 
tion must be controlled by the judicious use of humidity, so that evapo- 
ration will proceed at the maximum rate at which the water is brought 
to the outer surface from the interior, and by the combined action of the 
difference in vapor pressure and capillary attraction. This rate will be 
very much greater through the use of "radiant energy" than without it 
and the total drying time will be correspondingly less. "Case harden- 
ing" will not take place and there will be no disruption of the cellular 
tissue which remaining unimpaired will readily absorb moisture when 
placed in water and "come back" much more quickly and much more 
perfectly to the original form. The fundamental principles of drying 
relative to proper temperatures and humidities, the recirculation of air 
to obtain maximum efficiency, the determination of the correct percentage 
of moisture to leave in the product and a great many other niceties of 



I 



t 



REFERENCES 48a 

the dehydration art cannot be accomplished without the use of radiant 
energy. 

The immense and far-reaching advantages which dehydrated foods 
possess commercially and the test of taste, the universal importance of 
food preservation and conservation of wastes now so universal in farm 
and orchard products, and the almost world-wide interest already awak- 
ened in the subject, indicate the ultimate extension of dehydration to the 
four corners of the earth and thereby be the means of supplying delect- 
able foods to the whole people of every country on earth. 

REFERENCES 

1. Skerrett, R. G. Scient. Am., March 10, 1917. 

2. Burgess, H. J. Pure Products, Aug., 1914. 

3. Wells, Levi. Yearbook of the Dept. of Agric, 1912. 

4. Pritchard, Eric. The Infant, Nutrition and Management. 

5. Cautley. Sutherland's System of Diet and Dietetics. 

6. Pennington. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bur. of Chem., Circular 98- 

7. Stiles and Bates. TJ. S. Dept. of Agric, Bur. of Chem., Circu- 

lar 104. . 

8. Burger, A. F. Pine Products, Oct., 1913. 

9. Langworthy, C. F. Yearbook of the Dept. of Agric, 1912. 

10. Gould, H. P. U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers' Bull. 293. 

11. Langworthy, C. F. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Farmers' Bull. 295. 

12. Friedenwald and Ruhrah. Diet in Health and Disease. 

13. Hall, W. S. Nutrition and Dietetics. 

14. Smith, J. C. Pure Products, Aug., 1913. 

15. Simons, Seward C. Some Essentials of Success in Dehydration. 
The Amer. Food Jour., vol. xvl, No. 9, Sept., 1921. 



CHAPTER III 

SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 
H. S. Grindley, B.S., Sc.D. 



We may live without poetry, music and books, but civilized man cannot live 
without cooks. (Owen Meredith.) 

History of Cooking. 

Principles of Scientific Cooking: Changes Produced by Cooking; Evil 
Effects of Poor Cookery. 

Varieties of Cookery: Meat — Boiling, Stewing, Frying, Baking, Roasting, 
Broiling, Braising, Steaming; Losses in Cooking Meat; Cooking of 
Fish; Cooking of Vegetable Foods. 

Food Concentration: Desiccation; Concentrated Proteins; Dried Vegeta- 
bles; Desiccated Milk; Desiccated Eggs; Meat, 

HISTORY OP COOKING 

Cooking as an art has been developed from the crude methods used by 
primitive peoples from almost the beginning of time. The early Egyp- 
tians, it is said, had professional bakers. We read of their roasting and 
boiling the flesh of oxen. The Greeks attributed the discovery of bread- 
making to the god Pan, but bread was in use among the Chaldeans and 
Egyptians before the Greek gods had their inception. Ching-Nong, 1998 
B.C., is reputed to have been the first V7ho taught men the science of mak- 
ing bread from wheat. So we see that bread is a very ancient food, its 
origin being lost in the mists of antiquity. In the days of the patriarch 
Abraham, his wife, Sarah, made cakes which were thought to be a fit offer- 
ing for angels. Prior to the bondage of the Israelites in Egypt, baking 
had become a highly perfected art. The Egyptians used many varieties 
of flour and made cakes of various kinds and shapes. According to sacred 
history, one of the most important servants in the service of Pharaoh, dur- 
ing Joseph's regime, was a professional baker. 

49 



50 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

There appears to have been cousideraLle difference as to the manner 
in which good eating was appreciated by the early Greeks. After the 
Homeric age of simplicity, in which roast and boiled meats seem to have 
sufficed the kingly table, a diversity of preparation was attained in cook- 
ing, and a certain epicureanism was displayed in the quality, seasoning 
and method of dressing food. The Greeks boiled and roasted the flesh of 
sheep, pigs, lambs and goats. They cooked poultry, small birds, game and 
sausage. Eish was the principal article of food with all classes of Greeks, 
but with the wealthier classes much skill and delicacy were attained in 
the stuffing and cooking of fish. The Romans(l) were not far behind 
their Greek brothers in the culinary art ; by degrees, however, a taste for 
better eating crept in; and after the Asiatic conquest, luxury in eating 
was introduced by Lucullus. There is plenty of evidence that primitive 
peoples of all races, savage, semi-savage and civilized, barbecued their 
meats over heaps of live coals, or roasted over the coals pieces of flesh 
cut or torn from big game. Small animals were sometimes roasted whole 
over the coals and sometimes they were incased in mud and then baked in 
hot ashes. 

Prehistoric man may have lived wholly on raw food, berries, fruits, 
shellfish, etc. (see Chapter I, Volume I, The Evolution of Man's Diet), 
but this diet is not suited for most races of man today, although the north- 
ern Eskimo still prefers to eat his ineat raw and frozen. Wliile it is pos- 
sible for man to live upon raw food for a considerable length of time, it 
is apparently designed by nature that a large portion of his food should 
be cooked, for there are no savage races who do not practice the art of 
cooking, in however elementary a fashion, and progress in the scale of 
development and civilization is uniformly accompanied by advance in the 
art of cooking. 

Of ancient British cookery very little is known ; no doubt it was crude. 
We find but little mentioned of the art of cooking in the Saxon Chronicles. 
The Danes and Germans appear to have been great drinkers and to have 
paid little attention to the preparation of foods. The Normans were more 
particular in these matters; some offices among them were held by right 
of the kitchen. We do know, however, that the mortar was extensively 
used by the Anglo-Saxons and that oil and lard were used instead of butter. 

The French were the first to introduce art into the process of prepar- 
ing foods, but it was not until the introduction of Italian taste by the prin- 
cesses of the House of Medici that cooking became an art. The ancient 
use of oil was modified through the discovery made by the French of 
dressing meat in its own gravy, and at the present day it is universally 



PEINCIPLES OF SCIENTIFIC COOKING 51 

admitted that the French cook is a true gastronomic artist, and it is for 
his perfection in this art that all the hotels of any importance in this 
country employ a Frenchman to fill the post of chef de cuisine. The esti- 
mation in which his services are appreciated may be understood by the 
large salary attached to this office in fashionable hotels and club houses. 
A visit to the kitchen of one of these establishments shows what a highly 
important post he fills. Such a person should know not only how things 
are to be done, but he should have the organizing ability to arrange and 
direct the work of the numerous assistants. 

During the past decade the art cf cooking as a branch of woman's edu- 
cation has been given considerable attention in this country. Domestic 
science classes, in connection with universities and other institutions of 
learning for young women, have been established in New York, Boston, 
Philadelphia and other places. 

PRINCIPLES OF SCIENTIFIC COOKING 

It is an error to suppose that cooking increases the digestibility of all 
food ; this is not the case with animal foods, as cooking diminishes rather 
than increases their digestibility. Proper cooking increases the digesti- 
bility of vegetable foods by breaking down their cellulose coverings, 
thereby allowdng rupture of the starch grains, which aids the free admix- 
ture of the digestive juices and hastens the chemical process of diges- 
tion (1). 

Generally speaking, all foods except fruits having organized structure 
require cooking. It is well known that the majority of fruits, and some 
vegetables, are eaten raw by preference, without interfering with the appe- 
tite ; but food from the animal kingdom, as a rule, requires thorough cook- 
ing. Raw animal food has been eaten by man, but it becomes wearisome ; 
an exclusive animal diet soon excites disgust. Milk, eggs, oysters and 
clams are an exception. 

While the physician need not be a cook, he should understand the gen- 
eral methods ol preparing foods, and should know the ingredients of com- 
pound dishes just as thoroughly as he knows the meaning of Galenical 
terms and the ingredients of tinctures, compound powders, pills, etc. If 
he is ignorant of the composition and proper preparation of foods, he can- 
not intelligently supervise the diet of his patients. He should study 
dietetics exactly as he studies the pharmncopocia or a work dealing with 
pharmacognosy or materia mediea, not that he need master the art either 
of cooking or pharmacy, but that he may have an intelligent, general com- 
prehension of both subjects. 



62 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

The essential part of all cookiug processes is the scientific application 
of heat, and it is important to have a clear understanding of the effects 
of heat upon the various chemical constituents of food. For instance, heat 
coagulates the protein of foods ; still it would be erroneous to suppose that 
a boiling temperature is necessary to bring about this change, since pro- 
teins, both animal and vegetable, are coagulated if their temperature is 
raised to 170° F. Ignorance of this fact is a fertile source of error in 
cooking. When the temperature of a piece of meat is raised much above 
this point, the protein is hardened and shrunken, and the digestibility of 
the meat is proportionally lessened. 

The vegetable foods are more readily affected by heat than animal 
foods, and of the carbohydrate foods, starch is most affected. Dry heat 
applied to raw starch converts a portion of it into soluble form, and ulti- 
mately into dextrin. This is accomplished, to a slight extent, in the outer 
crust of bread and in the preparation of toast. Moist heat applied to 
starchy foods causes the starch molecules to swell, bursting the cellulose 
coverings, when the foods are said to be gelatinized. This occurs below 
the boiling point of water, as shown by the following table giving the 
gelatinization points of different kinds of starch : 

GELATINIZATION POINTS OF VARIOUS STARCHES 

Oats 185° F. 

Barley 176° F. 

Rye 176° F. 

Wheat 176° F. 

Rice 176° F. 

Maize 167° F. 

Potato 149° F. 

From the above table it is observed that the gelatinization of starches 
can be effected at comparatively low temperatures. In the chapter on 
Sugars, Spices and Condiments (Volume I, Chapter XVII), the effect of 
heat on sugar has been described, and therefore it need only be mentioned 
here that the partial conversion of sugar into caramel is one of the means 
by which flavor is developed in the meals by cooking. 

Fats are less affected by heat than proteins and carbohydrates. When 
subjected to high temperatures, however, a portion at least of the fat may 
possibly undergo a partial decomposition with the liberation of free fatty 
acid(2). This explains why hot fat is much more apt to prove irritating 
to the stomach than cold fat, for it is quite probable that the fatty acid 
may reunite with glycerin to form neutral fat on cooling. Fat which has 



PRINCIPLES OF SCIENTIFIC COOKING 53 

been heated and allowed to cool is often found to have become granular 
in appearance. This change is no doubt brought about by driving off 
water, and it tends to render the fat more brittle, and consequently easier 
to digest. This change is apparent to anyone who has watched the "drip- 
ping" or "rendering" of lard, or the process of drying bacon. 

The great difference between the French, English or American cook- 
ing consists in the fact that the French cook their meat much longer. 
They are therefore enabled to make a variety of dishes by altering or 
annihilating the original taste of the meat and making it a vehicle for 
foreign flavors. The variety, daintiness and grace of form which dishes 
thus acquire are very admirable. The French cook throws nothing away. 
Instead of going to the butcher for meat for stock, as the American cook 
does, he uses the trimmings for stock and the skimmings of his boiled 
meats in many combinations where the American uses butter or lard ; like 
every skilled workman, he produces great results from small means. 

Changes Produced by Cooking — ^Efforts are being made to teach cook- 
ing in the public schools, and in this respect much good work. is being 
accomplished. For any shortcomings in cooking, however, the taste of the 
American is in some measure accountable. The results of cooking food 
are as follows : 

(a) Cooking develops certain savory flavors in food — more particu- 
larly in meat — which are agreeable to the palate, and thereby enables man 
to secure a variety in taste which is often important as a stimulus to the 
appetite. 

(&) Cooking alters the consistency of food generally, making it softer. 
Eggs are the exception; they become harder when boiled. Cooking also 
renders meat more coagulated and solid, more tender and friable, and 
easier to masticate. This allows of more free mixing of the various di- 
gestive fluids with the food. 

(c) Cooking produces chemical changes in food which favor the action 
of the digestive enzymes. This is particularly true of some forms of 
starch and many varieties of meats. 

(d) Cooking not only sterilizes the food but destroys many varieties 
of parasites and germs which may be contained in the food and which may 
be highly poisonous. It has been found that no animal parasite in meat 
is capable of withstanding a temperature of Y0° C. All ordinary proc- 
esses of cooking will render meat free from this source of infection. 

(e) The ingestion of very hot food is sometimes advised to favor the 
digestive processes, although the importance of this consideration is apt 
to be exaggerated. 



54 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

(/) Cooking improves the appearance of many foods, and often pro- 
duces a delightful aroma which makes the morsel more appetizing. 

Evil Effects of Poor Cookery. — Good, wholesome and proper food mate- 
rials are often rendered valueless from poor cookery. The uuwholesome- 
ness of food is quite as often due to bad cookery as to improper selection 
of material. When scientifically performed, cooking changes each of the 
food nutrients, with the exception of fats, in much the same manner as do 
the digestive juices, and at the same time it breaks up the food by dissolv- 
ing the soluble portions so that it is more readily acted upon by the chem- 
ical processes of digestion. The evil effects of bad cookery and the improper 
selection of foods are too numerous to mention. No doubt their ill effects 
are as far reaching as the use of strong drink ; indeed, one of the evils of 
unwholesome food is its decided tendency to create a craving for drink. 
For bad cookery is the forerunner of indigestion, which condition causes 
thirst, and thirst is apt to produce and to perpetuate drunkenness. One 
who has suffered from a fit of indigestion and recalls the accompanying 
headache and the lowness of spirits, going from dejection and ill-humor 
to extreme melancholy with all the mental faculties dazed and the normal 
feelings more or less blunted, will hardly wonder that such a condition 
may become chronic, which is ofteji the case from the continued ingestion 
of improperly prepared foods. It is not surprising, then, that the victim 
of such circumstances is easily led to resort to stimulants to drown depres- 
sion and enliven spirits. 

VARIETIES OF COOKERY 

The processes of cooking in common use are as follows : 
(o) Boiling (e) Roasting 

(6) Stewing (/) Broiling 

(c) Frying (g) Braising 

(d) Baking (h) Steaming 

There can be no question that there is decided advantage in varying 
the different methods of cooking, as well as flavoring the food, from time 
to time. Monotony of diet and the continued sameness of flavors are not 
stimulating to the digestive organs or appealing to the appetite ; and when 
conditions are such that a variety of food cannot be obtained, variety in 
their preparation can be made to replace its advantages to a great extent. 
Even an epicurean appreciates the effect on appetite of an occasional 
change of cooks, or, if he be a home person, of an occasional meal, dinner 
or luncheon in a friend's home or at a hotel or restauro.rt. It ir. not the 



VARIETIES OF COOKERY 55 

intention of the author of this work to discuss all the details of the prepa- 
ration of foods for the sick, since every trained nurse should be well 
grounded in the art of domestic science and in invalid cookery which 
should form the basis of her education. We cannot hope to do more than 
explain the theory of the chief methods of cooking and suggest occasion- 
ally the influence of scientific cookery upon digestion. Meats which have 
been twice cooked are undesirable for invalids, as they are apt to be drier 
and less nutritious and more difficult to digest than when fresh. For this 
reason, when ''hash," for example, is twice cooked, the meat fiber is too 
greatly hardened. Such preparations, by the addition of too much grease 
and by recooking, are not proper dishes for delicate stomachs ; for a simi- 
lar reason canned meats, when warmed over, are not as easily digested 
as fresh meats, because they have been already cooked once. Made-up 
dishes combining difi"erent foods which require different periods for their 
cooking are undesirable. Soup, for instance, needs less boiling than the 
vegetables added to it, which should in all cases be partially cooked alone 
beforehand so that they will not be underdone. The necessary heat for 
the different varieties of cooking is obtained from many sources : from 
wood, coal, gas, oil, steam, electricity, and of late from the "fireless 
cooker." Each one of the difi^erent methods possesses advantages for par- 
ticular foods. 

With these preliminary considerations, we may proceed to the study 
of the effects of cooking upon animal and vegetable foods, respectively. 

COOKING OF MEAT 

Boiling — The primitive method of boiling water originally consisted 
in heating the water in a hollow dug-out in the ground by plunging in red- 
hot stones taken out of the fire. Later, as pottery-making and metal- 
working became an art, cooking utensils were employed. The use of the 
term "boiling" (212° F.) in connection with the cooking of meat is rather 
unfortunate, for the operation thus designed, if properly carried out, 
should involve hardly any boiling. The temperature should be just suffi- 
cient to change the coloring matter of the blood, soften the fiber and dis- 
solve the connective tissue, which can be successfully accomplished by 
water far below its normal boiling point. Boiling meat in its strict sense 
over-coagulates the proteins, dissolves the mineral matter, and lowers the 
caloric value of the food. This is best shown in a hard-boiled egg, in com- 
parison with one cooked below the boiling point. In the former the albu- 
min is rendered hard and indigestible, and in the latter the albumin is 
soft and creamy and is even more easily digested than when raw. While 



56 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

the effect of over-boiling meats is not so apparent as in the case of eggs, 
the end results are precisely the same. In the cooking of meat, however, 
some boiling as a preliminary process of the operation is necessary, since 
the juices of meat are rich in albumin ; it is necessary to cover the meat 
with boiling, unsalted water and boil it rapidly for five minutes to coagu- 
late the albumin on the surface and inclose the meat in a waterproof cas- 
ing. This will prevent the escape of the meat juices from the interior of 
the cut. The next step is to place the pot over a moderate fire where 
the temperature will be maintained at 180° to 200° F., twenty minutes 
being allowed for each pound of meat. If the heat is not carried to this 
point, the interior of the joint or piece of meat is not perfectly cooked, its 
albumin is not sufficiently coagulated, and the cut will have a raw appear- 
ance. If, on the other hand, the actual boiling point is long continued, the 
albumin will be firmly coagulated and the meat will be tough and stringj'. 
This error in boiling meat is often perpetrated by incompetent cooks. 

It is a scientific fact, unappreciated by many persons, that when water 
has once reached the boiling point, its temperature cannot be further ele- 
vated ; consequently, however hot the fire, or however prolonged the cook- 
ing, the temperature of the food suspended in the boiling water cannot be 
increased above that of the boiling water itself ; and the fact remains that 
the temperature of the interior of large masses of food — such as a cut of 
meat or large potatoes — is by no means as great as that of the surrounding 
water. For this reason, it is a mistake to pile on more fuel when water 
has once reached the boiling point, as it will have no further effect than 
that of accelerating the rate of ebullition, without actually raising the 
temperature of the water or any food immersed in it. 

The concentration of broth or boiiillon is dependent mainly upon the 
method used in boiling the meat from which it is made. If the meat is 
subjected to continuous boiling for an hour or more, the connective tissue 
is gradually transformed into gelatin which in part becomes dissolved 
in the water. A little of the fat, melted by the heat of the water and 
not being able to mix with the latter, floats as scum on the surface. In 
addition, a small quantity of the meat juice exudes into the surrounding 
liquid, which at this stage is known as broth or bouillon. In order to 
make a very concentrated and nutritious broth, the meat is cut in fine 
pieces, put into cold water and left for a time. It is then placed on the 
stove and slowly warmed, although it must not be allowed to reach the 
boiling point. If the temperature does not pass beyond 160° F., the meat 
juices will be dissolved in the water. As the water is not hot enough to 
coagulate the albumin of the meat, an increasing quantity of the con- 



VARIETIES OF COOKERY 67 

stituents of the muscle fibers passes out to become dissolved in the broth. 
Such preparation gives to the broth the natural flavor of the meat. The 
ordinary meat extracts are manufactured by allowing finely minced meat 
to stand in cold water for a time, after which ^he water is evaporated 
from the ingredients. If the purpose of cooking is to leave as great a 
quantity as possible of the nutritive elements in the meat itself, a some- 
what different process is employed. The meat is quickly plunged into 
boiling water and left there for five minutes. By this method the sur- 
face of the meat is coagulated sufiiciently to form an effective barrier 
to the passage of the nutritive juices from within. When the cooking is 
completed, the meat holds practically all of its original nutriment and 
is consequently most palatable. On the other hand, the broth contains 
a minimum quantity of the meat juices in solution and therefore pos- 
sesses only slight food value. 

The fact that the coagulation point of a given variety of albumin 
varies considerably must not be overlooked. Some albumins are coagu- 
lated below 90° F. while others require a heat of 165° F. ; and since many 
varieties of albumin occur in different kinds of animal food, it will be 
found that they are not all equally well cooked at the same temperature. 
Parkes is the authority for the statement that ammonium sulphite is lib- 
erated by continued boiling and an acid resembling acetic acid is also 
produced. Meat when plunged into boiling water has its external layers 
immediately solidified. Some of the water which they contain is squeezed 
out into the adjacent fluid and an actual loss of weight in meat occurs, 
ranging sometimes as high as 30 per cent. Williams is authority for the 
statement that, when salt is added to water in boiling fish or meat, it pro- 
duces a threefold action : (a) It directly acts on superficial albumin with 
a coagulating effect; (&) it slightly raises the boiling point of water; (c) 
by increasing the density of the water, the exosmosis of the juices is less 
active, and hence the flavor is better retained. When salt meat is to be 
cooked, if steeped too long in boiling water, its nutritive properties are 
impaired, and the muscular fiber becomes hard and the meat loses its 
inviting taste and becomes tough. In the preparation of such a cut, it 
would be well first to boil the meat less completely, and finish the cooking 
by some other method, either frying, roasting or broiling. 

Stewing. — Stewing, or preparation en casserole, is in many respects 
an ideal method of cooking meat. It differs from boiling in that the juices 
of the meat are dissolved in the heated water, whereas in boiling, the 
juices are prevented from passing out into the water by the coagulation of 
the albumin on the outer surface of the cut. If properly performed, stew- 



58 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

ing coagulates without over-hardening the proteins, while owing to the 
fact that the juice is eaten together with the meat, none of the flavoring 
ingredients are lost. The proper temperature for stewing ranges between 
135° F. to 180° F. Thp prolonged action of heat and moisture converts 
most of the connective tissue into gelatin, so that the fibers readily fall 
apart and the meat becomes very tender. Here again, the secret of success 
is in avoiding too high temperature. It is sufficient to place the pan on 
the side of the fire and allow it to simmer only, instead of to boil. The 
thermometer will show that the temperature of simmering and boiling 
water is practically the same, 212° F., the only difference being that in 
the former case the heat is reaching the water more rapidly and more of 
it is wasted. The proper temperature for scientific stewing is 180° F. 

In thick stews, the juices dissolved in the water are eaten together 
with the cooked food; but, when it is desired to make beef tea or other 
kinds of soup, an aqueous solution only is used. It is obvious to the reader 
that the more the food is subdivided the greater will be the surface exposed 
to the solvent action of the water, and hence the reason of mincing meat 
thoroughly when it is to be used for the preparation of beef tea. If such 
minced meat has been soaked for a long time in cold water, a part of its 
albuminous substances and some of the extractive materials will already be 
in solution. But the meat which is left will be tasteless, odorless and un- 
palatable ; in fact, animals fed upon such meat soon deteriorate in strength. 

The perfection of a meat stew largely depends upon the thorough co- 
agulation of the outside juices and the slow process by which it is fin- 
ished, while, as before stated, the temperature should never exceed 180° F. 
Such flavorings as bay-leaf, onion and celery, pepper and salt, may be 
added, but the saucepan should be closely covered so as to retain all the 
flavors. Stewing is a very economical method of cooking; there is no 
waste; all escaped juices are held in the solution; all the nourishment 
is secured, and if the dish is well rooked and not too greasy, the meat is 
tender and readily digested. The difi"erpnce between stewing and other 
processes of cooking is graphically explained by Williams, who says : "In- 
stead of the meat itself surrounding and enveloping the juices, as it should 
when boiled, roasted, grilled or fried, we demand in a stew that the meat 
juices shall surround or envelop the meat." 

Frying. — Frying is a process of cooking by immersion in hot fat at 
a temperature of from 350° to 380"^ F., and not by radiation, as in the 
case of broiling or roasting. Since this method of cooking is often grossly 
misunderstood, it requires some special description ; as explained by Wil- 
liams, "fat does not necessarily boil, for the food, as well as the fatty 



VARIETIES OF COOKERY 59 

material itself, may contain a largo percentage of water which, by being 
suddenly vaporized, produces the familiar spluttering which accompanies 
the process of frying." 

Fats, when heated to 400° to 500° F. or above, decompose, yielding fatty 
acids and other products, some of which are volatile. But fats and oils used 
in cooking do not require a heat of above 400° F., which will cause a very 
disagreeable odor with much smoke, leaving a non-volatile carbon residue. 

If a temperature not exceeding 380° F. is maintained, the fat does 
not smoke or decompose. It is chiefly on account of overheating that fried 
foods are often unsightly and indigestible. It is difficult to regulate the 
temperature without the aid of a thermometer ; but the following test may 
serve to indicate that the proper temperature is nearly reached — a crumb 
of bread dropped into a pan of hot fat will turn brown in ten seconds if 
the temperature has reached 340° F. 

Butter is not a suitable medium for frying, because it rapidly decom- 
poses at too low a temperature. Olive oil or cottonseed oil is far prefer- 
able. A mixture of oil and suet is very good; but the best medium for 
frying purposes is a mixture of lard and suet. The frying pan should be 
sufficiently deep to permit the complete submersion of the article to be 
cooked. The temperature of the fat will at once cause the formation on 
the surface of the article being cooked of a complete covering through 
which neither grease can enter nor the juice escape. Without this im- 
permeable covering, the outside of the fried food will be greasy and the 
inside flavored with the frying materials, while if proper precautions are 
observed, the fried article will be as free from fat as if it had been cooked 
in water. With a suitable pan, and the fat at the proper temperature, 
everything is ready for "frying," and the article should be plunged into 
the fat and left for two or three minutes. The spluttering which follows 
is due to the sudden conversion of the moisture on the surface of the food 
into steam; when this has ceased, the cooking is complete and the food 
should be instantly removed and allowed to drain on paper, to remove all 
traces of fat. It will be observed that the process is entirely different 
from the so-called frying usually practiced in well-regulated homes, in 
which a little fat is employed merely to prevent the food from adhering 
to the frying pan — an abbreviated form of roasting really being per- 
formed. Frying, after all, is less perfectly understood by the ordinary 
cook than almost any other process of cooking meat, and, as usually car- 
ried out, results in abominably prepared and unwholesome food. The 
pans are not deep enough and the food and fat are scorched and rendered 
unpalatable and quite indigestible. 



60 SCIENTIFIC COOKEKY 

Baking. — Baking is a process of cooking meat in the dry heat of an 
oven. The oven of the stove generally receives its heat from the fire-bpx, 
although in large establishments it is heated by steam under pressure. 
No matter how great the surrounding heat, a thermometer placed in the 
center of the cut or joint will scarcely register 200° F., the meat being 
really cooked in its own juice at a gentle heat. 

This method of cooking meat — in a confined space — prevents the vola- 
tile products from escaping, as in roasting, and in consequence, the meat 
has a somewhat stronger and less delicate flavor than when roasted ; it is 
also richer, and therefore more liable to disagree with persons of dyspeptic 
tendencies. This process of cooking causes the cut or joint to become satu- 
rated with empyreumatic oils — unless its surface is protected by a pie 
crust, as in the case of "pot pie" or "chicken pie" — but even that does not 
add to its digestibility. 

Certain mechanical and chemical changes take place during the process 
of baking; considerable moisture is driven off, therefore baked foods are 
drier when cooked than before cooking; heat and moisture present in the 
foods cause a rupture of the cell walls. In this way the proteins are coag- 
ulated, and possibly other changes in the texture and consistency of the 
foods are produced. The chemical changes brought about are as follows : 
Proteins are coagulated, fats are more or less broken down into simpler 
bodies, and carbohydrates on the surface especially are to a greater or 
lesser extent caramelized. 

Baking with dry heat — food confined in a closed oven — may be termed 
a slow process of cooking, and it is interesting to learn that the advantages 
of slow cooking are not altogether unknown to some savage tribes. In 
this respect the civilized cook may learn something from their crude 
methods. Mr. F. T. Bullen(3) describes as follows the process of baking 
meat as practiced by the Kanakas of the Friendly Islands, and we doubt 
if any better illustration of the advantages of slow cooking can be found : 

A hole is scooped in the earth, in which a wood fire is made and kept burn- 
ing until a fair-sized heap of glowing charcoal remains. Pebbles are then thrown 
in until the live coals are covered. Whatever is to be cooked is enveloped 
in leaves, placed upon the pebbles, and more leaves heaped upon it. The earth 
is then thrown back into the cavity and well stamped down. A long time is, of 
course, needed for the viands to get cooked through, but so subtle is the mode, that 
overdoing anything is almost an impossibility. A couple of days may pass from 
the time of "putting down" the joint, yet when it is dug up it will be smoking 
hot, retaining all its juices tender as jelly but, withal, as full of flavor as it is 
possible for cooked meat to be. No matter how large the joint is or how tough 
the meat, this gentle suasion will render it succulent and tasty; and no form of 
civilized cookery can in the least compare with it. 



VARIETIES OF COOKERY 61 

The baking of bread is considered with the cooking of vegetables, in 
Volume 1, Chapter XIII, page 365. 

Roasting. — Roasting is a process of cooking meat, in which heat is 
conveyed by direct radiation, in a closed oven instead of through the 
medium of water (4). The terms broiling, grilling and roasting denote 
the same operation. The first two are used to designate the process when 
applied to steaks or smaller pieces of meat; the term "roasting" is used 
when a ''large joint" or "rib roast" is cooked. In the process of roasting 
there is considerable loss, especially if the joint be a fat one, but the flavor 
is incomparably finer than if baked or boiled. Roasting of large joints of 
meat and of fowls is perhaps best done by hanging the article to be roasted 
on a spit which slowly revolves in front of and in close proximity to a 
clear and quick burning coal fire. In large restaurants this is the process 
generally followed. 

For the proper roasting of a joint, much care is necessary to avoid 
excessive heat except for a period of five minutes (1Y5° F.), in which 
the coagulated albumin will completely seal up and cover over the exter- 
nal surface of the meat ; for the same reason as in boiling, the temperature 
should then be slightly lowered. The process of cooking meat in this 
manner is somewhat analogous to that of stewing ; in fact, the interior por- 
tions of the meat are "stewed in its own juices" instead of water. 

The outer coating prevents the evaporation of the juices of the meat 
which, together with the extractive materials, add flavor to the roast. 
Roasted meat has a decided advantage in flavor as well as nutritive value 
over meat which has been boiled for a long time, although the latter may 
be more tender and more easily digested. 

The high temperature suddenly applied in roasting meat produces a 
firmer coagulation on the external surface of the joint than occurs in boil- 
ing — by which process more of the natural juices are retained. "If the 
principles of scientific roasting are carefully observed," says Williams(5), 
"the meat should be cooked by. the action of radiant heat projected towards 
it from all sides while it is immersed in an atmosphere nearly saturated 
with its own vapor." 

The proper roasting of meat or fowl cannot be accomplished without 
the efi"usion of more or less of the meat juices and the melting of a small 
portion of the superficial fat and of gelatin. These substances in solution 
form the "meat gravy," which is auite savory and very nutritious, and 
which a good cook advantageously uses for "basting" the roast to prevent 
drying, and to distribute the heat more uniformly over the surface. The 
process of roasting, if correctly performed, not only prevents the escape of 



62 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

the natural meat flavors, but develops in it substances which are them- 
selves of a sapid savory nature. These savory substances result from 
changes produced by the action of the heat on the extractives on the sur- 
face of the meat somewhat analogous to the alteration which sugar under- 
goes in its conversion into caramel. The action of high temperature on 
these substances produces a dark brown, sticky substance on the surface 
of the fowl, roast or joint which is familiar to everyone. This is sometimes 
called osmozone and is one of the most tasty and sapid substances known. 

Meat which by accident has become ''over-roasted" or burned, will 
present scorched or charred surfaces, due largely to the carbonizing of the 
fat. Before the fat has become completely biirned, certain volatile fatty 
acids are liberated which emit a very disagreeable odor; besides, other 
products are developed which are of no nutritive value, but which may be 
positively irritating to the alimentary canal. 

For the proper roasting of beef, mutton and game, according to Yeo, 
a temperature of 135° F. is sufiicient, and the meat is "rare" and "under- 
done," retaining a good deal of its reddish color; but veal and poultry 
should be roasted at a higher temperature — from 150° to 160° F. These 
temperatures are slightly lower than often recommended, and are intended 
as the degrees to be maintained after the meat is placed in position and 
has had the first five minutes of excessive heat previously mentioned. It 
18 interesting and at the same time important to remember that the smaller 
the cut to be roasted the hotter should be the fire. An intensely hot fire 
coagulates the exterior and prevents the drying up of the meat juices. 
This method would not, however, be applicable to large cuts, because meats 
are poor conductors of heat, and a large piece of meat exposed to this 
intense heat would become burned and changed to charcoal on the exterior 
long before the heat could penetrate to the interior. Hence the rule : the 
smaller the cut to be roasted, the higher the temperature to which it should 
be exposed. 

Game or meat which Is '*high" or slightly tainted, if cooked by boiling 
or stewing becomes extremely repulsive and the odors from it exceedingly 
offensive. It disintegrates more rapidly and the elements of decomposi- 
tion pass into and flavor the whole mass. Such meat may be made more 
or less palatable, and sometimes wholesome, by roasting, when the external 
layers which have commenced to decompose are thoroughly browned and 
thereby disinfected, though repulsive putrefactive odors will be noticed. 
As pointed out in the chapter on Animal Foods, 'Tiigh game" is in a putre- 
factive stage — a condition produced by certain microorganisms or bacteria 
which are constantly floating in the atmosphere, in search for a convenient 



VARIETIES OF COOKERY 63 

place of living and breeding, and which find the juices of flesh ideal for 
their purposes. The period of time required for a piece of meat, game or 
fowl to hang, in order to obtain tlie proper game flavor, depends some- 
what upon the season of the year, tlie temperature and the climatic condi- 
tions; and the boundary line between the "gamy flavor" and the stage of 
putrefaction is very narrow and easily passed without recognition. 

The game flavor is due to the metabolic activity of the micro- 
organisms which have settled upon the meat, and which, by a process al- 
lied to that of fermentation, produce changes in the albumin and other 
constituents, giving rise to certain aromatic bodies. These microorganisms 
of putrefaction produce an enzyme which, in coming in contact with the 
albuminous portions of the flesh, may so act as to produce poisonous sub- 
stances known as ptojnains and leukomains. Game that is ''high," or 
meats which are tainted, though apparently well cooked, are liable to pro- 
duce ptomain poisoning. The heat employed in the process of cooking 
destroys the bacteria in the meat, and it may be safely eaten while it is 
hot ; but the heat may not have been sufiicient to destroy the enzyme of 
such bacteria— which goes on destroying albumin, with the production 
of ptomains or leukomains even after cooking. It may thus happen that 
a portion of tainted meat is sometimes partaken of quite freely and with 
impunity immediately after it is cooked, but a few hours later, ptomains 
having then been produced by the enzymes, it becomes very poisonous. 
Some epicures prefer to have a leg of mutton or a piece of game hung 
until the process of decomposition is noticeable and the tainted odors pres- 
ent, but meat to be cooked by boiling must under all conditions be ahso- 
lutely fresh. 

Broiling — Broiling or grilling is a means of quick cooking, requiring 
much less time than roasting or boiling, because intense heat is applied to 
comparatively small pieces of meat. The object in broiling is to raise the 
temperature of the interior of the meat quickly to 180° F., so that the 
moisture contained in it will not have time to evaporate. For successful 
broiling, therefore, it is necessary to have the meat as close as possible to 
the glowing coals to increase the radiation and to limit the retarding 
efi^ects of air currents. It is for this reason that steaks and chops cooked 
in restaurants or hotels are often better than those cooked in the home, 
where one cannot have the specially designed grills or revolving spits 
which bring the meat in close contact with the radiant surface of the glow- 
ing fire. 

In broiling steak, the meat should first be placed over a clear, hot fire 
until one side is seared ; then it should be turned and the other side seared 



64 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

in like manner. The steak should now be placed at a greater distance from 
the fire and the cooking thus continued at a lower temperature, five minutes 
being allowed for a steak one inch thick, if liked rare, and eight minutes 
if preferred well done. A steak one and a half inches thick requires from 
eight to ten minutes, and a steak two inches thick twenty minutes. Sea- 
soning may be added after the steak has been cooked. A favorite season- 
ing for steak is maitre d'hotel butter (I/4 cup of butter, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, y2 saltspoon of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley and 1 
tablespoonful of lemon juice). A properly broiled steak or chop is thick- 
ened in the center, but if badly grilled it is thin and dry. It should not 
be overlooked that the evaporation in broiling depends upon the extent 
of the surface of the meat, and for this reason thinly cut steaks or chops 
become comparatively dry and shriveled in the center. 

Roasting and broiling are the most universal methods of cooking meat. 
The savage or hunter requires no utensils for cooking his game, but for 
boiling it is necessary to have vessels in which to place the food. The 
Polynesian cooks his meat by roasting it on a hot stone, and sprinkles it 
with sea water to obtain the salt. The primitive hunter incases his meat 
or fowl, skin and all, in damp clay and bakes it by surrounding it with 
hot coals. The Australian savage, the lowest type of man, does all his 
cooking by roasting. 

Braising — Braising is a process of cooking intermediate between boil- 
ing and baking. First the meat is partially browned and cooked in a 
moist heat in a vessel with a close fitting lid. Some of the so-called "roast- 
ing pans" or "braising pots" are suitable for this purpose. The meat 
should be placed in a pot or pan and partially covered with hot "stock" 
or water composed of a solution of animal and vegetable juices called 
"braise." Seasoning such as bay-leaf, onion, celery seed, etc., should be 
added and the pan closely covered. Cooking should be done in a hot oven 
in which the meat is exposed to a strong but not boiling temperature, 15 
minutes being allowed for each pound of meat. Sherry or some spices 
may be added, such as cloves or mace; salt and pepper should be added 
when the meat is about half done. The cover of the vessel should be re- 
moved half an hour before serving and the stock reduced so that it can 
be served as a sauce. The amount of sauce allowed to remain should be 
barely sufficient to cover the meat, and in this way the surrounding broth 
is kept highly concentrated. Braising is an economical process of cook- 
ing; the constituents lost by the meat from evaporation and solution are 
absorbed almost entirely by the gravy. This process of cooking is espe- 
cially valuable in cooking tough meat or any kind of meat which is too 



VAKIETIES OF COOKERY 



65 



fresh or young. It is best adapted to the so-called inferior pieces, as a leg 
of mutton, the upper and nnder round, and the fleshy part of the shoulder. 
Steaming — Steaming as a process of cooking meat is but little used 
and is mainly applied to cooking cereals, puddings, etc. Steamed foods, 
as a rule, are more highly flavored than those boiled, for the reason that 
in steaming, the soluble constituents are not so easily lost as in boiling. 
The process of steaming can be carried out in a "modern steam cooker" 
or in a perforated kettle which fits closely over- another kettle containing 
boiling water. If the steam is under pressure, the temperature may be 
much higher than that of boiling water, and hence the method may be 
used for sterilizing canned foods. In large establishments such as hotels, 
restaurants and clubs, the method is also used for the baking of meats. 
Ordinary home steaming is an excellent method of cooking vegetables, 
hams, fruit cakes, puddings and other dishes that require the prolonged 
application of moist heat. 

LOSSES IN COOKING MEAT 

It has been determined by Johnston that, no matter how carefully or 
by what procjess meat is cooked, there is always a certain amount of loss 
of the soluble constituents, for instance: 





In Boiling 


In Baking 


In Roasting 


4 lbs. of beef loss in weight 


1 lb. 


1 lb. 3 oz. 


1 lb. 5 oz. 


4 " mutton" " " 


14 oz. 


1 lb. 4 oz. 


1 lb. 6 oz. 



The greater part of this loss is water, shown by the following analysis 
given by Konig : 



COMPARATIVE COMPOSITION OF MEATS BEFORE AND AFTER 

COOKING 







Nitroge- 




Extrac- 






Water, 


nous 


Fat, 


tive 


Salts, 




Per cent 


Matter, 
Per cent 


Per cent 


Matter, 
Per cent 


Per cent 


Beef: 












Before cooking; (raw) . . 


70.88 


25.51 


4.52 


.86 


1.23 


Same after boiling 


56.82 


34.13 


7.50 


.40 


1.15 


Same after broiling (as 












beefsteak) 


55.39 


34.23 


8.21 


.72 


1.45 


Veal Cutlets: 












Before roasting (raw) . . 


71.55 


20.24 


6.38 


.68 


1.15 


Same after roasting. . . . 


57.59 


29.00 


11.95 


.03 


1.43 



66 



SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 



The actual loss of the soluble matter is more clearly stated in Bulletin 
No. 21, United States Department of Agriculture. The estimate below 
is calculated on the basis of dry substances: 

COMPARATIVE COMPOSITION OF WATER-FREE SUBSTANCE OF 
MEATS BEFORE AND AFTER COOKING 



Nitrogen, 
Per cent 



Protein, 
Per cent 



Fat, 
Per cent 



Extractive 
Matter, 
Per cent 



Salts, 
Per cent 



Beef: 
Before cooking 
After boiling. . , 
After roasting. 

Veal Cutlets: 
After cooking. 
After roasting. 



12.37 
12.65 
12.27 

11.39 
10.93 



77.31 
79.06 
76.73 

71.17 
68.36 



15.47 
17.38 
18.41 

22.45 

28.18 



2.98 

.90 

1.59 

2.32 
.09 



4.24 
2.66 
3.27 

4.06 
3.37 



A careful study of these figures proves that the loss is almost entirely 
confined to the extractive matter and salts of tlie meat. 



COOKING OF FISH 

Fish may be cooked by boiling, grilling, baking, frying or stewing. 
Of these several processes boiling is decidedly the most advantageous for 
persons with feeble digestions, and next in order is broiling. The flavor- 
ing ingredients of fish are more readily dissolved by water than those of 
meat, and since fish has less flavor, in the first instance, any loss in this 
direction is to be carefully guarded against. For this reason, boiling, un- 
less most carefully supervised, is not a suitable method of cooking fish. 
Even when carefully performed, the loss exceeds 5 per cent of solid mat- 
ter, and on this account, cooking by means of steaming is preferable just 
as in the case of some vegetables. When fish is boiled without the addition 
of salt to .the water, it becomes soft and disintegrates, but if boiled in sea 
water or ordinary water to which salt has been added, the fish maintains 
its shape and flavor. The quantity of salt regulates the osmosis of the 
juices of the fish into the water. 

As a rule, fish is cooked in much less time than meat. If fried fish 
is to be eaten by persons of dyspeptic tendencies, it should be cooked 
whole and the skin carefully removed subsequently. But fried fish is 
never as easily digested as boiled fish. The essential principle of frying 
fish consists in the sudden exposure of the object to be cooked to a very 
high temperature, which, as we have seen in the section on frying, has 
the effect of producing an instantaneous coagulation of the albuminoid 



VARIETIES OF COOKERY 67 

matter on the surface, together with a slight degree of charring, thus 
preventing the escape of juices and other sohible substances, while the 
surrounding temperature is so high that the fish is practically cooked 
through its whole thickness almost instantaneously. 

In order to attain the proper temperature for frying fish, olive or good 
cottonseed oil is the best medium. A deep pan is necessary, and a tem- 
perature of from 350° to 390° F. When this temperature has been 
reached, the fish should be suddenly plunged into the pan and left for 
2 or 3 minutes. Considerable spluttering will immediately ensue, and 
when it ceases, the cooking will be complete. 

COOKING OF VEGETABLE FOODS 

The objects to be achieved in cooking of vegetable foods are somewhat 
the same as in cooking animal foods, namely, to render them more diges- 
tible, to give variety, to modify their flavor and in some cases to preserve 
them. While it is possible but not practicable to eat animal foods without 
cooking, yet it is impossible to eat certain vegetable foods in a raw state, 
as man is almost incapable of digesting the cellulose framework of vege- 
table foods ; hence, cooking in order to soften this cellulose framework, 
and to bring about a gelatinization of its starch, are the ends to be desired 
in cooking vegetables. Cellulose, as we found when studying vegetable 
foods, is a very hard, indigestible substance in its raw state, or until it 
has been partly converted into sugar by the action of acids, aided by heat. 
It is probable that this change does not ordinarily take place in cooking 
or in digestion. In ripening fruits such change is due to enzyme action. 
In its unripe state, a pear or other fruit is very hard and "woody," due 
to the presence of this cellular framework. In the process of ripening, 
the acids of the fruit, aided by the heat of the sun, bring about a soften- 
ing of this framework with partial or more or less complete solution of 
the cellulose fibers, producing, when ripened, a sweet, soft fruit. 

In the cooking of vegetables the cellulose envelopes are burst asunder 
in consequence of the heat, so that when ingested, the digestive ferments of 
the alimentary canal have more ready access to the starchy or albuminous 
contents. In bread and other glutinous foods, the albumin is coagulated, 
and in the case of bread, it sets in a permanent vesicular mass which the 
digestive secretions readily permeate and attack. In the cooking of green 
vegetables, the fibers are softened, the albumin coagulated, the gummy, 
saccharine, saline and oily matters are, to a more or less extent, partially 
removed by the water. It should be unnecessary to state here that all 
vegetables need th(Jrough washing before cooking. Roots and tubers, 



68 



SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 



especially, should be well cleaned before paring. As a general rule, all 
vegetables to be boiled or stewed should be cooked rapidly with just enough 
water to prevent burning and with the lid oif the saucepan; the rising 
scum should be frequently removed. Rain water is especially adapted for 
cooking on account of its softness and freedom from salts of lime and 
magnesia. These salts are present in hard water, and when vegetables or 
meat are boiled in it, a certain amount of salts is deposited, thereby in- 
creasing the scum. Wlien these salts are deposited upon the meat or vege- 
tables, they hinder the penetration of heat into the interior, and so their 
presence may prevent the abstraction of soluble materials when it is de- 
sired to make broth or soup. 



GAIN OF WATER ON COOKING VEGETABLES 



Per cent of 
Water in 
Raw State 



Per cent of 

Water after 

Cooking 



Increase 



Parsnips 

Artichokes 

Cabbage 

Spinach 

Cauliflower 

Sea-kale 

Vegetable marrow 



82.0 
80.0 
89.0 
90.0 
90.8 
93.3 
94.8 



97.2 
91.6 
97.5 
98.0 
96.4 
97.9 
99.1 



15.2 
11.6 
8.5 
8.0 
5.6 
4.6 
4.3 



Some coarse, raw vegetables — principally the roots and tubers, such as 
turnips, carrots, beets and potatoes — while they make good food in the 
raw state for animals, are unpalatable and indigestible for man, and re- 
quire softening and alteration by prolonged boiling in water or some other 
form of cooking. The action of heat through boiling macerates the cellu- 
lar fibers or walls of the cells, softens their contents and renders the vege- 
tables more easily masticated, while the effect of the heat, together with 
the accompanying moisture, causes swelling and rupturing of the starch 
grains, in which condition the vegetable matter is more easily and 
promptly acted upon by the starch digesting enzymes contained in the 
saliva and pancreatic juice. Many vegetables are better steamed than 
boiled, as, for instance, potatoes, rice, young peas, com, squash, cucum- 
bers, pumpkins and spinach. The effect of cooking upon green vegetables, 
in some instances. Is to decrease tbeir already poor stock of nutrients. 
They gain water and lose part of their carbohydrate and protein content, 
much of their mineral matter and nearly all of their non-albumlnold 
nitrogenous constituents. "For example, in cooking cabbage by boiling, 



VARIETIES OF COOKERY 



69 



more than 30 per cent of its total solids is lost, as well as a large amount 
of the total mineral matter, and one-third of the carbohydrate, all of the 
non-protein nitrogen, and 5 per cent of the protein. Some of the com- 
moner vegetables gain a large percentage of water in cooking, as shown 
in the table on the opposite page (6) : 

We append below a table (7) showing the amount of carbohydrates 
contained in some of the commoner vegetables before and after cooking : 



Cabbage, turnip (young) 

Cauliflower 

Spinach 

Winter cabbage 

Asparagus 

Savoys 





After Boiling 


Raw 


AND Straining 


Per cent 


Per cent 


3.09 


2.43 


2.10 


1.40 


2.97 


.85 


6.75 


3.20 




1.6 



2.7 



The deficiency of fat in vegetables is often made up by the addition 
of butter or oil in the course of preparation for the table. Vegetables 
prepared in this way may be made an important vehicle for conveying fat 
into the body. The amount of fat which some vegetables can readily take 
up without being overloaded is shown in the following table : 

100 parts of potato pur^e can take up 



100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 



" boiled potato. 

" baked « " 

" red cabbage " 

" savoy cabbage " 

" cabbage lettuce ....... " 

" potato souffle " 

" fried potatoes " 



50 parts 


of fat 


)-50 « 


U It 


)-50 « 


u u 


40 " 


u u 


32 « 


u a 


24 « 


u u 


20 « 


u u 


15 " 


u u 



Vegetables are not, on the whole, readily digested. It has been shown 
that five and one-third ounces of cabbage require three hours. The same 
amount of cauliflower requires only two and one-half hours. Certain vege- 
tables are difiicult to deal with in the intestine owing to their bulk and 
the amount of cellulose which they contain. If they are slightly stale, 
their presence in the intestines causes fermentation with the generation 
of gases due to the action of the organisms on the cellulose. The action 
of heat on the protein contained in vegetables has an efl^ect similar to that 
which it exerts on the same constituent of animal food ; the coagulation of 
protein produces a shrinkage rather than a swelling of the food, and for 
this reason, if the cellulose framework encloses protein only, it does not 
rupture. One can readily understand, therefore, that if a vegetable food 
contained only protein, its digestibility would not be increased by cooking, 
but rather decreased. As a matter of fact, however, there are few vege- 



70 SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 

table foods which do not contain much starch together with the protein, 
and hence it is that the general rule holds good, that cooking increases 
the digestibility of all vegetable foods. 

FOOD CONCENTRATION 

Food concentration is based upon the fact that the large percentage of 
free water contained in some foods can be removed by evaporation. This 
process reduces the weight and at the same time the bulk of the food. Fur- 
ther condensation may be accomplished by pressure with hydraulic ma- 
chinery applying several tons of force to the square inch. 

Desiccation. — Desiccation involves the removing of more water from 
foods than can be removed by evaporation alone. Such food products are 
commonly refered to as "condensed." Desiccation may be carried to the 
point where the food is entirely dry, in which case the substance "desic- 
cated" may be torn into shreds or pulverized. Condensed and powdered 
foods are usually added to other foods in order to thicken them or add to 
their nutritive properties. Desiccated meat is the most concentrated form 
of protein, sugar is the most concentrated form of carbohydrate, and olive 
oil is the most concentrated form of fat. 

Concentrated Proteins. — Concentrated proteins are prepared from milk, 
meat, eggs and vegetables. Meat is concentrated by drying, and in this 
form is practically indigestible. This indigestibility can, however, be 
overcome by predigestion or powdering. This class of foods includes beef 
meal, somatose and other such products (see page 20). Of the concen- 
trated vegetable proteins may be mentioned aleurona and legumin. 

Dried Vegetables — Dried vegetables keep much better than dried 
meats. Coffee, tea and cocoa are good examples of dried vegetable sub- 
stances. They may be extracted and then concentrated by evaporation. 
Potatoes are concentrated by a drying process to less than one-third of 
their weight, and in this shape may be preserved for future use ; so may 
carrots, cauliflower and the like. They are prepared by being exposed to 
the direct rays of the sun, and are serviceable only for relieving monotony 
of the diet when fresh vegetables cannot be obtained. (See Volume IT, 
Chapter TI.) 

Desiccated Vegetables. — ^Desiccated vegetables have been used to some 
extent in the United States Navy, but it has been found that they possess 
fewer antiscorbutic properties than fresh vegetables. Bread is frequently 
dried and eaten in the form of "hard-tack" when it is impossible, as during 
long voyages, to obtain fresh bread. Hard-tack may be preserved for a 
long time, but it becomes tasteless and is useful only in emergencies. 



I 



FOOD CONCENTRATION 71 

Captain Woodruff (8), of the Medical Corps of the United States Army, 
writes on this subject as follows : 

The Germans have been the first to take advantage of drying and compressing 
processes in the manufacture of a dried, compressed bread. The great difficuhy 
in the use of bread for field use consists in the inability to supply it so that it will 
keep a long time and be digestible. Hard-tack is ruinous to many soldiers, as al- 
ready pointed out. If baker's bread is compressed, it sinks into a heavy dough. 
Only strong stomachs can digest it, and it is far worse than the soggy, hot break- 
fast bread with which we cultivate dyspepsia. If the bread is merely dried, it is 
too bulky for transportation. By a new process, which probably consists in dry- 
ing the bread and at the same time compressing it by improved machinery, the 
Germans have secured a variety of field bread which is spoken of in very high 
terms. Small bits of it thrown into soup swell up like a dried sponge when thrown 
into hot water. The soldiers are said to be very fond of it, and as far as known 
it is entirely successful. 

Desiccated Milk — This is now prepared by drying in vacuo fresh 
cow's milk. It is offered as a sterilized food for the artificial feeding of 
infants (see Volume II, Chapter II). 

Desiccated Eggs. — These are also offered as a substitute for fresh eggs, 
but the product is very inferior to fresh-laid hens' eggs. The albumin of 
egg dries in thin scales which may be indefinitely preserved, but the yolk 
is not so well taken care of. 

Dried Meat — The preservation of meat and fish by drying is probably 
the oldest of the primitive methods of preserving meat. This method of 
drying meat is practiced extensively among savage tribes in most parts 
of the world, but especially where purity of atmosphere combined with 
intense heat and dryness of climate will cause the water to evaporate from 
the meat so rapidly that germs do not have time to decompose it. Meat 
to be preserved in this manner mnst necessarily be lean, as the fat does 
not part with its water with sufficient rapidity. Dried meat loses consid- 
erably in weight, becomes hard and tough, and in many instances taste- 
less. Such meat is usually very indigestible, and requires prolonged cook- 
ing and liberal seasoning. Dried meats may be predigested, evaporated 
and made into a paste for broths or used to reenforce various food prepa- 
rations for invalids. Meat extracts have been described in Vol. I, p. 287. 

Concentration, according to Colonel Woodruff (8), means only the 
extraction of the indigestible portions of the food and part of the water. 
Thus the garrison ration gives to each man about five pound? of food, of 
which only four pounds are eaten, and it is impossible to condense this 
amount so that it will be much less than three pounds. All foods that are 
compressed and dried still contain from 5 to 12 per cent of water. The 



72 



SCIENTIFIC COOKERY 



German soldier's war ration is equivalent to about two pounds of water- 
free food in the above sense. This is not enough for American soldiers 
during hard work, yet it is possible in an emergency to give the soldier 
fairly good nourishment with these improved foods, and not allow the 
weight to be over two pounds, as seen in the following table, in which the 
analyses are only approximate: 

COMPOSITION OF EMERGENCY RATION OF THE GERMAN SOLDIER 





Grams 


Akticles 


Protein 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Salts 


Calories 


Weights 


3 cubes dried compressed 
bread, ^ pound each. . . 

3 packages compressed soup, 
6 ounces each 


35 
100 


4 
150 


250 
200 


2 

28 


1,233 
2,625 


VA « 


3 tablets compressed tea or 
coffee ready for use, pos- 
sibly a tablet of dried 
fruit 


u 






Total 


135 


154 


450 


30 


3,858 


*2 lbs. 







* Groes Weight. 

The composition of the bread is assumed to be the same as ordinary 
flour, and the tablets of soup can be manufactured of the given composi- 
tion. As usually made, the tablets do not contain so much fat, which is 
here purposely increased in order to give the necessary energy. Even with 
this increase they would not contain as much as the first specimens of 
Erbswurst. 

For purposes of detached service the United States soldier has been 
supplied as follows: 

COMPOSITION OF COMPONENTS OF THE RATION OF THE UNITED 

STATES SOLDIER 





Grams 


Components op Ration 


Protein 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Salts 


Calories 


Weights 


1 pound hard-tack 

^ pound bacon 


50 

27 


5 
236 


340 


2H 
8H 
19 


1,644 
2,310 


1 lb. 


Coffee, sugar and salt 


Va. « 


Total 


77 


241 


340 


30 


3,954 


2 lbs. 







BIBLIOGEAPHY 73 

REFERENCES 

1. Sykes. Principles and Practice of Brewing. 

2. Gbindley. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking 

upon the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat, U. S. 
Dept. Agric, Exper. Sta., Bull. 193, 1907, Washington, D. C. 

3. BuLLEN, E. T. The Cruise of the Cachalot, p. 273, pub. by Smith, 

Elder and Co., London. 

4. Spkague and Grindley. A Precise Method of Roasting, Bull. No. 

4-19, Univ. of Illinois, May 15, 1907. 

5. Williams. Chemistry of Cookery, p. 158. 

6. Williams, M. Chemistry of Cookery, J. Chem. Soc, p. 158. 

7. Kraits. Ztschr. f. diatet. u. physik. Therap. 

8. Woodruff. J. Am. Cavalry Assn. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Grindley, II. B. Meat Losses in Cooking, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bull. 141. 
■ . Chief Loss During Cooking of Meats, U. S. Dept. Agric, 

Far. Bull. No. 162. 
Sny'der. Studies in Bread Making, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bull. 67, 101 

and 126. 



I 



CHAPTEE IV 



THE HYGIENE OF EAIING 



The Creator in compelling man to eat that he may live, invites him through 
appetite and rewards him with pleasure. 

The Kole of the Senses in the Pleasure of Eating. 

Effect of the Manner of Eating on Digestion: Euphagia; Food and Emo- 
tion; Bradyphagia; Tachyphagia; Evils of Overmastication. 

The Drinking of Water with Meals, 

Personal Idiosyncrasies. 

Order and Frequency of Meals: For Healthy Individuals and in Diseased 
Conditions; For Persons Engaged in Heavy Manual Labor, Skilled 
Labor, Professional Vocations, Commercial Life; For Those Who 
Lead I^ives of Leisure; For Night W^orkers. 

Regularity of Meals. 

Sleep and Digestion. 

Occupation and Digestion. 

Variety in Diet. 

Relation of Medication to Meals. 



THE ROLE OF THE SENSES IN THE PLEASURE OF EATING 

The above quotation is a sublime aphorism of the great deipnosophist 
who regaled his readers with a vast abundance of gastronomic lore, em- 
phasizing the correlative influences of the five senses on the plea;sure of 
eating. 

''True it is that nearly all animated beings are endowed with special 
senses, but man, alone, is granted the faculty of cultivating them to a 
very high degree for bodily nourishment and mental enrichment as well 
as for other purposes. Eorced by hunger to eat for his sustenance, he 
labored diligently in seeking the necessary aliments which, originally, he 
had found through the aid of certain lower creatures whose movements 
he had cunningly espied. The first sense he naturally exercised was that 
of sight; the second, touch, when with his hand he seized an edible sub- 
stance and carried it toward a third sense organ which gave him its odor, 
then greedily thrust it into his mouth to awaken the gustative sense; the 
clattering of his teeth pleasantly rousing the auditive sense. Thus were 

76 



76 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

the five senses gratified whilst hunger was satisfied; appetite, that is to 
say, the desire to eat tasty food, became agreeable, being the outcome of 
that primitive experience." 

The high cultivation of the senses in man gives him supremacy over 
other animated beings in his struggle for existence. In the animal king- 
dom, as well as among uncivilized peoples, the securing of food for suste- 
nance forms the principal occupation during life. The necessity of ob- 
taining food has remained the same with civilized man, but the manner 
of partaking it has been changed, partially to his disadvantage. New in- 
terests have arisen and the act of eating has been in a measure relegated 
to the background. In this age of frenzied finance, in busy metropol- 
itan centers, persons scarcely take time to eat ; they swallow hastily any 
kind of food, without special selection, which is often very poorly prepared. 
The natural consequence is that under these conditions diseases of the 
alimentary system are more frequent than in the early days. 

Individuals whose sense organs are abnormal, whose perceptions are 
natiirally dull or accidentally obtunded, or whose mental faculties are un- 
tutored, have little if any real pleasure in eating. "Hunger and thirst they 
feel, and beast like, brutally appease, but they have no tnie appreciation 
of, or appetite for, dainty food or for its use in moderation ; whilst those 
of cultured mind and sound body, in the enjoyment of delicacies, bring 
into play all of their senses to enhance the pleasure of eating." This is 
aptly summed up in the aphorism : 

The beasts feed, man eats, but only men of genius know how to eat. 

"The gustative sense, one of the niost precious endowments of the Cre- 
ator to the creature^ is granted to nearly all animated beings, but man 
alone is able to cultivate this sense to its highest possibilities. Probably 
prehistoric man, from watching an animal in the act of ingesting food, 
tried it, but found it malodorous, nauseous, unsavory, so he rejected it. 
Finding another kind of food in which he perceived a fragrance and sapid- 
ity, after bruising it in his mouth, he swallowed because of the pleasing 
buccal sensation it produced. Gustation, therefore, may be defined as the 
perception and distinction of savory and unsavory qualities of ingesta. 

"Taste, like many other words pertaining to the alimentation of man's 
body, is largely used figuratively, as in the expressions "good or bad taste" 
or simply taste or its want, "de gusHhus non est disputandum" being ap- 
plied to both the original term and its figurative use. For instance, an 
aliment may be gustful to one individual and disgustful to another. 

"The seat of gustation is at the base and sides of the tongue, the base 



THE KOLE OF THE SENSES 77 

being the region of the circumvallate papillae, and the side the region of 
the fungiform papillae. The exquisitely delicate filiform papillae, dis- 
seminated upon nearly the whole upper surface of the tongue, are purely 
tactile, while the gustatory papillae are furnished with taste bulbs. Be- 
sides ramifications of twigs from the glossopharyngeal nerve and lingual 
branch of the trigeminal, the circumvallate papillae contain minute gusta- 
tive bulbs (discovered by Schwalbe and Loven in 1867). These gustative 
bulbs exist also in the fungiform papillae. Thus the chain of specializing 
bodies in the sense end-organs is complete, from the retinal rods and cones, 
the tactile corpuscles and pacinian bodies, the olfactory cells in the upper 
yellow region of the nasal mucous membrane, to the organs of Corti in the 
internal ear." 

Tasty aliments are often designated as "palatable," although the pal- 
ate is passive in gustation, its office being purely mechanical and serving 
as a hard, fixed surface against which the tongue bruises the food to ex- 
press and diffuse sapid particles for quick solution by the saliva, without 
which there would be no gustation of solids. The other parts of the buccal 
cavity possess no more than tactile properties. 

It has been stated by competent physiologists that there are but two 
veritable savors recognizable through the gustative bulbs, namely: the 
sweet and the bitter; while others equally competent have identified three 
additional savors : the saline, the alkaline and the acid. However, sweet, 
bitter, salt and sour are almost universally accepted. But all reject the 
idea of acrid savors, which really result from mechanical action of acid 
substances upon the tactile papillae, and ignore the so-called aromatic savor 
which belongs to olfaction. ISTevertheless the concurrence of the tactile and 
olfactory senses is essential to perfect gustation and to the full enjoyment 
of delicious aliments. 

Taste, then, with its closely associated olfactory and tactile senses, is 
regarded, gastronomically, as the special and general pleasure evoked by 
the perception and specialization of the crispness, of the succulence, sapid- 
ity, and perfume of aliments ; and figuratively as a judgment of the beau- 
tiful, the sublime and the picturesque. 

The proper hygiene of eating is too often unjustly decried as sybarit- 
ism by the thoughtless ; but students of rational deipnosophism admit that 
the wise cultivation of the divine gift of the five senses is not only essen- 
tial to the real enjoyment of edibles but is a blessing without which man 
would be but little above the beast. The pleasure of eating should be the 
reward for the labor of gathering, preparing, serving and consuming the 
food. 



78 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

In observing the proper hygiene of eating, it behooves one to insist 
that wholesome aliments be rendered appetizing and pleasing to the 
senses; onlj ascetics denounce a gourmet by saying, "It is bestial to make 
eating an absorbing object of thought. A man should eat to satisfy hun- 
ger ; but if he allows his mind to run on his food, he will become a glut- 
ton and beast at the cost of his soul." Such a charge, while not really 
applicable to the gourmet, could only have been made by one known to 
live on the commonest of foods and one whose gustative sensibility has 
long since been obtunded and who does not care for good fellowship. It 
is only too well known that the veritable gourmet always has a good cook, 
and is never gluttonish. He is a daintier eater, only giving sufficient 
thought to his daily food to insure its excellence of quality, and regarding 
a moderate and reasonable gratification of appetite and gustative sense 
as pertaining to human intellect, and the mere satisfaction of hunger as of 
beastly instinct. The gastrolater is one who makes eating "an absorbing 
object of thought" and who in brutish style devours large quantities of 
food, regardless of quality. He does not become gluttonous, for he was 
bom a glutton. 

"Good alimentary hygiene, like good German grammar"(l), involves 
a clear knowledge, first of rules, then of exceptions, and finally of excep- 
tions to exceptions. An ideally healthful, well-regulated life involves 
painstaking regularity in eating, drinking, sleeping, exorcise and modera- 
tion, as well as avoidance of risks. But it is occasionally necessary to 
resort to irregular and excessive demands even to the point of danger, in 
order to develop moral, mental, muscular or digestive strength, and the 
"exception to the exception" is that one must be careful not to make irreg- 
ularity itself a routine, nor to make the physical test a strain nearing the 
danger point, nor to disregard carelessly the experience of other observers, 
or even his own, in running risks. 

Eating or partaking of food is the only means by which life is sus- 
tained. Without it the human organism cannot thrive, cannot gain in 
weight, cannot grow. Total abstinence from food causes the body to lose 
steadily in weight, and results in death. 

EFFECT OF THE MANNER OF EATING ON DIGESTION 

Euphagia — Euphagia, or the art of eating properly, like all natural 
processes, if performed under the proper hygienic conditions, affords the 
body the greatest pleasure and satisfaction. In order to receive the greatest 
pleasure from the partaking of food, the organism must be prepared by 



EFFECT OF THE MANNER OF EATING 79 

previous work, followed by a short period of rest. In Holy Writ, we find a 
quotation : ''In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread," which empha- 
sizes the importance of work preceding the partaking of food. A German 
proverb, "Arbeit macht das Leben siiss" (Work sweetens life), emphasizes 
not only the pleasure derived from eating, but from all other functions 
of life. Even if it is admitted that work is essential to the pleasure 
and satisfaction of eating, still it must not be in excess or lead to exliaus- 
tion, as in this condition the appetite usually lags and digestion becomes 
sluggish. 

Food and Emotions — Meals should be served only after a short period 
of rest, allowing plenty of time for the repast. During mealtime the emo- 
tions should not be disturbed, either by anger or grief. The whole and 
undivided attention should be given to the meal (2). Pleasant company, 
light conversation, jokes and stories add to the enjoyment of food. It is 
well understood that the brain exerts a powerful influence on the process 
of digestion. Great grief or anger deters appetite and may seriously 
hinder the process of digestion. 

Pavlov (8) has established, beyond question, the great physiological im- 
portance of the mental state on digestion, having successfully demonstrated 
that the sight of delicacies exerts a stimulating influence upon the secre- 
tion of gastric juice even before the viands are eaten. Food to be enjoyed 
must not only be properly prepared and palatable but must be served in 
an attractive manner. There can be no question that a well-laid table, 
snow-white linen, polished silver, crystalline drinking vessels, beautiful 
floral decorations, and the good taste displayed in all the appurtenances 
of a well-ordered dinner, delight the visual impression with each course 
throughout the repast and heighten the pleasure of eating. 

Physiologists and dietitians guided by the work done by Pavlov and 
Cannon on digestion and nutrition are realizing more and more the po- 
tency of the psychic factors concerned in the process of digestion, and he 
who comprehends only the chemical and mechanical aspects of these all- 
important questions sees as "through a glass darkly" an(f needs to sweep 
the cobwebs from his brain. 

When a hungry diner approaches an attractively laid table with an 
appetizing meal thereon, both his eyes and olfactories set in motion the 
preliminaries to the digestion of the food in sight. As the food is received 
by the waiting gustatory tract, it is comminuted and insalivated just 
sufiiciently to promote easy deglutition and allow the savory taste and 
aroma arising therefrom to be thoroughly appreciated. During mastica- 
tion numerous messages are dispatched to the stomach, the pancreas, the 



80 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

duodenum and the other organs concerned in the process of digestion, in- 
forming them in code message readily understood how much and what 
kind of aliment is being dispatched to them to digest. When such mes- 
sages are of cheerful import, these organs at once take to their tasks with 
alacrity, performing them with such ease and expedition that the diner 
need not know that he even possesses a stomach. 

But, on the other hand, should the same meal be approached with 
severe gastronomic contemplation and with arduous and lengthy mastica- 
tion, the message may be "flashed" to the waiting accessory organs, "Your 
master has lost confidence in you ; the mouth and teeth will take over 
most of your former duties, and hereafter you will be under constant men- 
tal surveillance." It can readily be perceived that under such a mental 
state digestion is performed in a tedious, faulty, complaining and unsat- 
isfactory manner, and we may well say that "the last state of that man is 
worse than the first." 

The effect of the emotions on digestion has, until recently, received 
scant attention at the hands of physiologists; in consequence, our knowl- 
edge of the emotional states on the process of digestion has been meager. 
Cannon (2) has placed before the profession the result of his four years' 
study of this subject in the Harvard Physiological Laboratories, and his 
published researches have thrown light on a hitherto dark subject. We 
are well acquainted with many surface manifestations under strong emo- 
tion. The contraction of the blood vessels with resulting pallor, the pour- 
ing out of "cold sweat," the stopping of the flow of saliva so that the 
"tongue cleaves to the roof of the mouth," the dilation of the pupils, the 
"rising" of the hairs, the rapid beating of the heart, the hurried respira- 
tion and the trembling and twitching of the muscles, especially those about 
the lips ; these bodily changes are well-recognized accompaniments of pain 
and great emotional disturbances, such as fear, horror and deep disgust. 
These manifestations of the emotions commonly noted are mainly super- 
ficial and readily observable. The internal organs of the body do not re- 
veal so obviou^y the disturbances of action which attend states of intense 
feeling. The organs most affected to an important degree by the feelings 
are those concerned with digestion. 

Cannon, in his recent investigations, has shown that not only are "the 
first stages of the digestive process normally started by the pleasurable 
taste and smell and sight of food, but also that pain and great emotional 
excitement can seriously interfere with the starting of the process or its 
continuation after it has been started." The conditions favorable to 
proper digestion are wholly abolished when unpleasant feelings such as 



EFFECT OF THE MANNER OF EATING 81 

vexation, shame, worry and anxiety, or great emotions such as anger and 
fear, are allowed to prevail. It has long been known that the salivary 
secretion is seriously affected by fear or ''stage fright" ; and the "ordeal of 
rice," employed in India to detect criminals, was a practical utilization 
of the knowledge that excitement is capable of inhibiting the flow of 
saliva (3). 

Other digestive glands than the salivary and gastric are influenced in 
emotional excitement. Oechsler(4) reports a study of psychic disturb- 
ances showing that emotional excitement suppresses secretion of the gas- 
tric juice, the secretion of the pancreatic juice and definite hindrance of 
the flow of bile. The secretion from the various organs concerned in the 
process of digestion and the chemical changes produced by them are of 
little value unless the chyme is normally propelled along the alimentary 
canal, and just as the secretory activities of the stomach are unfavorably 
influenced by the strong emotions, so also are the movements of almost 
the entire alimentary canal practically arrested under great excitement. 
Cannon, by means of the roentgen rays, the most fruitful of all the tech- 
nics applied in this field of study, was able to observe the movements of 
the alimentary canal in animals, and in some of his experiments the waves 
of contraction were perfectly evident, while in others there was not the 
slightest sign of activity. The peristaltic waves in the stomach, and the 
peristalsis in the small intestine, and reversed peristalsis in the large in- 
testine all ceased when the observed animal was in a state of emotional 
excitement. 

Other sensory stimuli bring about similar inhibitions of gastric peri- 
stalsis which can actually be observed in certain animals (rabbits) without 
any operative interference whatever, by mere inspection of the epigastrium 
as described by Auer(5). The stoppage of intestinal peristalsis, after 
similar inhibitory influences are brought to bear, has been described for 
the human subject by various observers who used the roentgen ray method. 
If further evidence were needed to give emphasis to the profound de- 
pendence of the activity of the stomach, as regards both its secretory and 
motor functions, on the "condition" of the nervous system, additional 
proofs could easily be adduced. Quite recently a large number of facts 
have been gathered in the pharmacologic institute at Utrecht directly ap- 
plicable to the question at issue. They involve a careful record of the rate 
of discharge of bismuth meals from the stomachs of laboratory animals in 
various stages of psychic calmness or perturbation, but under otherwise 
conlparable conditions. Without attempting to group the emotional states 
into well-defined categories, we may describe the subjects as ranging from 



82 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

individuals tame, unperturbed, readily amenable to handling and freely 
submissive to obser\'ation, on the one hand, to wild, frightened or re- 
fractory subjects on the other. Corresponding with these emotional states 
the discharge of the meal from the stomach ranged in time from one and 
a half hours in the former group to three or even more hours in the case 
of the most unamenable subjects. Such figures are more expressive than 
a dozen sermons on the importance of a proper state of the nervous sys- 
tem in the normal performance of some of the functions of alimentation. 

The conclusion is that the activity of the stomach in man is affected 
similarly to that in the lower animals; so, likewise, the gastric and intes- 
tinal peristaltic waves are stopped in man as they are stopped in lower 
animals by worry, anxiety and other conditions of mental discord. Thus 
we see that the emotional life of an individual exerts a marked influence 
upon all gastro-intestinal activity. Fully 50 per cent of the action of gas- 
tric secretions is psychic and at least partially dependent upon hedonistic 
approach. The intrinsic relationship between man's emotional state and 
the operation of his primitive instincts is axiomatic. In the field of nutri- 
tion, the proper selection of nutritional elements is a matter of protoplas- 
mic activity of the original cell. 

An individual in normal health, taking a reasonable amount of exer- 
cise, does best to follow his natural appetites with regard to quantity and 
quality of food, though an intelligent appreciation of physiologic demands 
and the nature of the aliment is always of considerable value. Sanitarium 
life is particularly demoralizing to persons who think too much of their 
digestive physiology. Society matrons and debutantes who have nothing 
to occupy their minds except dress and eating, become morbid from think- 
ing too much of what they shall wear and particularly of what they shall 
eat. Some physicians, too, become health cranks from constant applica- 
tion of their professional ideas to themselves and their families. Health 
cranks of all kinds are usually the product of imperfect, unqualified infor- 
mation carried to an extreme in one direction. 

Bradyphagia. — One of the most prominent advocates of this class, in 
recent times, is Mr. Horace Fletcher (6), an apostle of deliberate mastica- 
tion — hradyphagia. He has so largely devoted his energies to this topic 
that slow eating has come to be called "fletcherism." 

Mr. Fletcher, when about to pass the middle milestone in life's jour- 
ney, found himself obese, dyspeptic and discouraged ; at this point he dis- 
covered that by slow and deliberate mastication his health seemed to im- 
prove. He then began to elaborate this supposedly new principle, claiming 
that he literally chewed himself back into normal health and averring that 



EFFECT OF THE MANNER OF EATING 83 

bj extreme mastication aud insalivation of food, hunger was satisfied with 
a much smaller amount than ordinarily craved, while at the same time his 
physical and mental well-being were enhanced. Mr. Gladstone, an Eng- 
lishman, anticipated Mr. Fletcher as the first advocate of prolonged masti- 
cation and attributed much of his success in public life to the fact that he 
had always made it a rule in eating to give every tooth a chance at the 
chewing. 

Bradyphagia means eating too slowly — a condition in which mastica- 
tion is performed at an abnormally slow rate, often leading to injury of 
the body economy. Mastication normally is an entirely voluntary act, 
while the performance of swallowing is a complicated reflex movement 
which is usually initiated voluntarily, but is, for the most part, completed 
involuntarily. Under normal conditions the presence on the tongue of 
masticated food seems essential to the completion of this act, and we 
might add that a pleasant taste coupled with a favorable attitude still 
further facilitates the act of swallowing and the passage of food through 
the esophagus into the stomach. 

Prolonged mastication may be, and often is, overdone by many people 
to their detriment. In many cases every morsel is masticated and remas- 
ticated, carrying out the Gladstone dictum of 32 bites for each morsel, 
and before being swallowed is again chewed and everything carefully 
tested with the tongue to see that it is thoroughly comminuted. The 
fletcherite has an abnormal fear and suspicion that something dreadful 
will happen unless he masticates his food as laid down by Fletcher in his 
"A B C of nutrition," which as a theory has grown, budded and blossomed 
so popularly that eating has become a difficult task. The enjoyment and 
pleasure of eating are transformed into a doleful process and a much 
smaller quantity of food is ingested. It not infrequently happens that 
the bolus of food remains in the pharynx or esophagus and refuses to 
budge. It is not an organic affection that causes this dysphagia, but 
merely excitement and fear of eating. In such individuals, of course, in 
time a chronic inanition develops owing to bradyphagia and the added 
temporary dysphagia, in consequence of which the patient gradually be- 
comes weaker and sometimes even dies. 

We admit the necessity for the moderate chewing of meats and urge 
the most thorough mastication of carbohydrate foods. In diseased condi- 
tions with impaired chemical functions of the stomach, or where a neo- 
plasm constricts the pylorus, fine mastication and thorough insalivation 
of foods are not only highly beneficial, but necessary. Fletcherism is also 
permissible in those easy-going, lackadaisical individuals whose tastes are 



84 THE HYGIENE OE EATINu 

gently epicurean and who possess the desires of a Lucullus minus the 
means. Let those benighted harmless souls chew and champ to their 
heart's content, for they, poor beings, need some fad, and this one can 
harm no one unless it be themselves. But to busy men who are shoulder- 
ing the cares of government, commerce and science, and whose strenuous 
impetuosity moves them to act quickly, whose every act is intense and 
every movement a flash — to such individuals, fletcherism is a thorn in the 
flesh. 

Einhorn(7) reports a case of bradyphagia — a lawyer 32 years of age, 
who consulted him for digestive disturbances and gave a history of having 
lost considerable flesh and of being unable for the previous three years to 
attend to business. He complained of an inability to swallow food and of 
intense pains in the upper abdominal region particularly after meals. 
This patient had lost more than 40 pounds, of which only a small portion 
was lost during the previous six months. He was a strict follower of the 
ideas of Fletcher; he ate very slowly, taking as long as half an hour to 
consume a glass of milk. He was emaciated, and an examination of the 
thoracic organs gave negative results. The lower border of the stomach 
reaching two inches below the navel, the epigastrium was slightly sensi- 
tive to pressure. Examination of the stomach contents after a test break- 
fast showed the presence of free hydrochloric acid with an acidity of 78. 
Dr. Einhorn's diagnosis was neurasthenia with hyperchlorhydria, and 
upon his advice the patient was given a more liberal diet and advised to 
eat more rapidly. In three weeks he gained eleven pounds and continiied 
to gain in weight and entirely recovered. The difiiculty of this patient in 
eating and swallowing is explained by the psychic excitement subsequent 
to the sitophobia and bradyphagia. 

Tachyphagia. — Tachyphagia, or hasty eating, is a common evil. The 
food is ojily half masticated or possibly not at all, and enters the stomach 
without being properly comminuted and insalivated. Such practice will 
surely lay the foundation for many disorders of the stomach and be a friiit- 
ful cause of intestinal auto-intoxication. Food which is not properly com- 
minuted will be the means of irritating the gastric mucous membrane and 
will not be sufficiently acted upon by the gastric juice which affects only 
the external surface. More particularly does this refer to the digestion of 
albuminoids. Carbohydrate foods when eaten too rapidly enter the stom- 
ach with only slight alteration, due to the rapidity of mastication and 
swallowing, wherein the ptyalin of the saliva is not present in sufficient 
quantities to produce any effect on the preliminary digestion of starches. 
The chyme, as a result of imperfect mastication and imperfect admixture 



EFFECT OF THE MANNEE OF EATING 85 

with the gastric juices, passes out through the duodenum practically un- 
changed and is liable by its coarseness to produce an irritation of this 
organ. 

Tachyphagia has other drawbacks besides the mechanical effect just 
mentioned, as it includes the taking of larger quantities of food in too 
short a time and the ingestion of foods too hot or too cold. In observing 
the proper hygiene of eating, provision is made that not too much food 
passes into the stomach at once, for mastication requires time ; besides^ in 
dining congenially, some time is spent in conversation and in serving of 
the different courses. Food that is too hot or too cold has its temperature 
somewhat equalized by the slow passage through the mouth and esophagus. 
These important factors are not observed in eating too rapidly. It is 
therefore plain to the careful student of euphagia that in too rapid eating 
an unsuitable quantity of food at unsuitable temperatures is consumed; 
both conditions being a fruitful cause of digestive disturbances, Tachy- 
phagia, or too rapid eating, is a frequent fault, causing many digestive 
qualms, and initiating many chronic disorders of the alimentary canal. 
This we admit. But we do not admit the necessity for slow, deliberate 
and systematic mastication as a sine qua non for health in every indi- 
vidual, irrespective of temperament, occupation or station in life; nor do 
we believe it conducive to the best physiological work of the digestive 
organs that a hard and fast rule be enjoined whereby a certain stated 
period of time must be devoted to mastication regardless of the nature of 
the food or the pleasure of the masticator. 

Evils of Overmastication — Insalivation exerts but little physiological 
effect upon the protein constituents of food. According to the teachings 
of physiologists, we know quite well that either the pepsin and hydro- 
chloric acid in the stomach or the trypsin beyond will take care of the 
digestion of meats provided they are decently comminuted and stay in 
the mouth only long enough to originate those psychic impulses which 
Pavlov(8) has so well shown us regulate the subsequent flow of the di- 
gestive juices. Every observer who has watched carnivorous animals feed, 
knows that they habitually bolt their food, and zoological history records 
no account of any psychic forms of dyspepsia in these animals. The prin- 
cipal function of salivary digestion is the preliminary transformation of 
starch into maltose by the action of ptyalin, and this process, though in- 
augurated in the mouth, continues until the whole of the stomach content 
has become acid. The time of salivary digestion, though quite brief, to 
be effectual should be energetic. Primarily, it is a preliminary act and 
no more should be expected of it than this. The pancreatic and other 



86 THE HYGIENE OE EATING 

juices beyond the pyloric end of the stomach will take care of the diges- 
tion of carbohydrates, and the psychic centers will forward the message 
regularly and rapidly as received by the gustatory senses. 

After all, we might say, and say correctly, the rapidity of chpwing is 
temperamental. We all know that some people can perform a given task, 
and perform it well, in half the time required by slow-moving individuals 
who do everything along the lines of least resistance; and as some people 
act quickly, speak quickly and think quickly, they also chew quickly but 
well. Men of affairs in the business world, those engaged in professional 
activities, soldiers, statesmen, and what not — ardent and strenuous spirits 
— are happiest when in the busy turmoil of competitive struggle; with 
them, the act of mastication is naturally performed briskly but none the 
less adequately. While on the other hand, the easy-going meanderer, who 
always seeks the lines of least resistance, goes through life in a leisurely, 
lackadaisical way, "far from the maddening world's ignoble strife." To 
these semivaletudinarians, whose gastronomic functions are constantly 
under severe mental scrutiny, fletcherism holds out promises for their di- 
gestive and intestinal qualms. 

Time is too precious, and life too short, to spend an unnecessary part 
of both in useless, if not harmful, mastication. Fletcher records in his 
writings that "one-fifth of an oimce of a young onion required 722 chews 
before it disappeared through involuntary swallowing," and Dr. Kellogg 
records the history of a patient who devoted never less than one and one- 
half hours in partaking and masticating his one scanty daily meal. It is 
preposterously asinine to suggest that busy, active men — those upon whose 
shoulders rest the burdens and perplexing cares of government, commerce 
and science, whose bright intellects are eagerly conquering the earth, the 
sea and the air, should be subjected to a too prolonged and wearisome mas- 
tication which is a snare and a delusion — a foolish fad — an anachronism 
in our twentieth century civilization. 

A retired business man — cadaverous looking and dyspeptic — consulted 
Niles(9), informing him that up to his retirement from active business, 
five years previous, he had never experienced a digestive discomfort dur- 
ing his strenuous years of laborious business activity. He hurriedly ate 
his breakfast so as to reach his office betimes. He snatched his lunch at 
a near-by restaurant, and his evening meal or dinner was frequently rushed 
through in order to keep some important business or social engagement. 
The subject of prolonged and tedious mastication had never entered his 
mind, nor did he realize that he was "digging his grave with his teeth," 
until he was so informed by an over-zealous acquaintance, made some time 



EFFECT OF THE MANNER OF EATING 87 

after his retirement from business. With this idea implanted in his idle 
mind, and with little else to do, he began to devote himself assiduously 
to iletcherizing his food as a safeguard to his future health. Niles reports 
that as a result of too much thought given to his digestive organs, there 
resulted a morbid introspection which gradually transformed a robust, 
alert business man into a puny, whining individual full of pains and ob- 
sessions, whose every waking thought was short-circuited on his stomach. 

Napoleon (10) at 35 years had developed and rounded out into a full- 
ness that indicated abounding health and vigor, and at the same time his 
mental faculties had reached their acme. His power for work had appar- 
ently never been equaled by any other man. He on one occasion said 
there was no limit to his endurance. Even his enemies declared that his 
capacity for strenuous work equaled that of four men. His digestive 
powers were perfect. He preferred plain dishes well cooked, his meats 
browned, and he rarely spent more than from seven to twelve minutes at 
a meal. When he became emperor and reached the pinnacle of his suc- 
cess, like many other successful men, he began to pay too much attention 
to eating, to the consideration of bodily comfort, and less attention to exer- 
cise. The result was he became obese, and at forty his physical powers 
began to decline and his grasp on the world slackened. 

In Volume I, Chapter V, in the section on the Chemistry and Physi- 
ology of Digestion, we discussed the mechanical and chemical changes 
occurring in the stomach and intestines during digestion. It will be seen 
on referring to this section that each division of the alimentary tract has 
its rightful duties in the life-scheme of nutrition, and the magnification 
of any one of these duties is liable to prove an opening wedge for various 
digestive ills, which, like jealousy, furnish the food upon which they feed 
and thrive. 

We are of the opinion that Americans eat too much butcher's meat and 
comminute it to an unnecessary fineness which, according to our theory, 
is not only unessential, but contrary to nature. All carnivorous animals 
bolt their meat, and we have no recorded observation of these creatures 
suffering from any form of digestive disturbances. In the first place, 
meats can only be digested in an acid medium. The gastric juices of the 
stomach are markedly acid, and it is necessary for meat to remain in the 
stomach from three to four hours or longer in order to be digested. 

Our belief is that meat which is too thoroughly masticated and macer- 
ated will be forced into the duodenum before the acid gastric juices of 
the stomach have had time to prepare it for digestion. It is well known 
from experience, that eating sausage or hamburger steak produces trouble 



88 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

during the process of digestion, which is explained in this way. The meat 
from which sausage and hamburger steak are made is reduced to a very 
fine puip with a machine, and when it enters the stomach, it does not re- 
main sufficiently long to be acted upon by the gastric juices. By the peri- 
staltic contractions pointed out above, it is forced into the duodenum too 
early, and as a result of not being properly acted upon by the acid gastric 
juices and reaching an alkaline medium in the duodenum too soon, pro- 
tein digestion is hindered. Consequently, the end products of protein 
digestion are present, throwing extra work on both the kidneys and liver, 
which are not able to take care of it. Finally these same end products of 
protein digestion are reabsorbed into the circulation, producing a long 
chain of ill results, prominent among which is — intestinal intoxication. 

Major W. B. Allen, Medical Corps United States Army, conducted a 
very interesting series of experiments which he related to the writer as fol- 
lows: A few years ago a company of men under his direct supervision, 
partaking of the regular United States Army ration, were instructed to 
bolt their meats. Major Allen taking careful record of the condition of the 
health of the company before beginning his investigation. He very care- 
fully watched this company during a period of twelve months, having 
them bolt their meat during this period of time. As a result he found 
that this company of men had fewer sick calls than any other company 
in the regiment. They were more free from bowel disorders, constipation, 
headache and digestive disturbances than any other company of men in 
the battalion, which he attributed to the fact that they did not chew their 
meats to an unnecessary fineness. This observation is peculiarly interest- 
ing and of value in emphasizing the foolish fallacy of Fletcher's fad. 

It is a mistaken idea that the proper hygiene of eating means "giving 
up all the things that taste good." It may be true that in many cases sac- 
rifices are made in reforming one's diet, but these sacrifices should not 
decrease the enjoyment of food. It is a well-known physiological fact 
that it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods that are not relished. Foods 
must have a pleasing taste and flavor and must be enjoyed in order to be 
most readily assimilated. Experiments already quoted by Pavlov show 
that the taste and enjoyment of food stimulate the flow of the various di- 
gestive juices. 

THE DRINKING OF WATER WITH MEALS 

A moderate amount of drinking water during meals is not objection- 
able. One or two glassfuls may be taken with impunity, provided it is 
not taken when food is in thie mouth and used for washing it down. A 



WATER INGESTION 89 

moderate amount of liquid, from 250 to 500 c.c, may be taken without 
harm at each meal by persons in good health, and if there be a tendency 
to accumulation of mucus or lack of sufficient secretion, digestion may 
occur more rapidly when liquid is used. Physiologists estimate that the 
stomach contents one hour after a meal should approximately consist of 50 
per cent water that can be removed by filtration. 

Hawk(ll) has shown that, when water drinking accompanies the tak- 
ing of food, the passage of water is delayed somewhat. His experiments 
also show that the equivalents of from one-half to three-quarters of the 
amount of water ingested during a meal, if this amount is large, may be 
voided in the urine within 45 to 90 minutes thereafter. That the food ele- 
ments were not thereby washed through the stomach into the intestine was 
shown by Cohnheim(12). Along the smaller curvature there is formed 
a trough connecting the antrum pylori with the cardiac opening, and 
through this water flows past the bolus of food lying in the stomach with- 
out washing any of the exterior away. Even when digestion is at its 
height, and when gastric juice is being secreted in large quantities, almost 
neutral water is often found leaving the stomach. Cohnheim also states 
that there is no dilution of the stomach contents by liquid food, and the 
accurate regulation of the pyloric sphincter is not disturbed whether water 
is taken with the meal or not. 

From this brief review of the facts regarding the drinking of water 
with meals, we may say: 

a. The ingestion of moderate amounts of water with meals not only 
does not inhibit the normal flow of digestive juices, but acts as an excitant 
to their flow. 

6. The digestive juices are not rendered less efficient by dilution, but 
on the contrary, the greater the dilution, the more complete is the enzyme 
action within limits. 

c. Even if the food were washed into the intestine more rapidly than 
usual, contrary to Cohnheim's belief, the greater efficiency and the greater 
amount of the digestive juices would outbalance this. 

PERSONAL IDIOSYNCRASIES 

In advising proper, well-balanced dietaries, personal idiosyncrasies 
must be taken into account, and the old adage, "what is one man's meat 
is another man's poison," must be respected. Again individuals have a 
mistaken idea of their personal idiosyncrasies; many people asseverate 
that nuts do not agree with them, when the trouble really is in the want 
of proper mastication. 



90 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

In the succeeding chapters directions will be given to help the physi- 
cian in prescribing a well-balanced dietary, both in health and disease, but 
it will be difficult to formulate any rule which will completely insure such 
a choice. Even the wisest physiologist cannot depend altogether on his 
knowledge of food values. 

Sound sleep depends somewhat upon previous fatigue. So good appe- 
tite, even the zest for some particular food, follows incipient starvation. 
Thus while the anabolic processes are normally nearly always the same, 
so as to supply material for oxidation and repair of waste as needed, occa- 
sional periods of moderate shortage do no harm but rather stimulate or- 
ganic vigor and economy. 

ORDER AND FREQUENCY OF MEALS 

The ingestion of food and drink should be intermittent, since they are 
intended to provide reserve force for the body. The supply and consump- 
tion of nutrients should balance, well-nigh approximately weekly or daily, 
except where it is advisable to remove an excess or supply a deficiency. 
It is even deemed advisable to have the separate meals correspond as 
nearly as possible to the demands for supplying food for succeeding 
periods. 

Individuals in normal health should have three meals daily, and so 
should patients suffering from most chronic affections, when a sufficient 
amount of food can be taken at three meals for proper nutrition. In dis- 
eased conditions, however, it will be seen, as outlined in Volume III, 
Chapter I, that five or six meals are more desirable and much more readily 
digested, and, in rare eases of ulcer of the stomach, or pernicious anemia 
with persistent vomiting, food in minute quantities must be given as often 
as every fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Persons engaged in heavy manual labor, as on a farm or in a lumber 
camp or in railway construction, require a hearty breakfast, a solid mid- 
day dinner served hot and a light supper or evening meal. Individuals 
engaged in this class of labor require(13) : 

1. Protein: 90 to 110 grams, 50 per cent to be from animal food; or 
110 to 130 grams if only one-third of the protein comes from animal food. 

2. Fat: 60 to 80 grams if the food contains 500 to 550 grams carbo- 
hydrates ; or 80 to 100 grams if the food contains only 450 to 500 grams 
carbohydrates. 

3. The heat content of the food should be 2,900 to 3,300 calories. No 
fixed form should be prescribed for the food taken, because persons differ 
so much from one another in their capacity to assimilate certain foods, in 



ORDEK AND FREQUENCY OF MEALS 91 

their physical condition, etc. The lower figures given in the foregoing 
should be considered as the minimum, while the higher values are suffi- 
cient for the energy expenditures of strong and healthy persons engaged 
in moderately active muscular work. 

For this class of workers the breakfast and dinner should be the largest 
meals. The supper or evening meal, on the other hand, should be light 
and easily digested, consisting of bread and milk, or other cereal food 
with milk, eggs and fruit, so that the stimulation of metabolic products 
would not interfere with sleep, and thus no great demand for innervation 
might be made on the nervous centers. In outlining the dietary for this 
class, special attention should be given to this evening meal for the reason 
that a full bladder and especially one filled with urine rich in waste prod- 
ucts and of high acidity, will interfere with sleep, and should be care- 
fully considered. 

Individuals engaged in skilled labor not involving great physical or 
mental fatigue and lasting only eight hours do not demand the hearty, 
warm noon dinner required by the individual engaged in heavy manual 
labor, although both breakfast and luncheon should be richer in carbo- 
hydrates and fats than those of the professional and business man. 
Whether the evening meal is called supper or dinner, it should be essen- 
tially a dinner, served hot and relatively more hearty than that of the 
strictly manual laborer. 

Individuals engaged in professional vocations, rising later in the morn- 
ing and going to bed later in the evening, should partake of a light break- 
fast consisting largely of fruits and cereals and not over 500 to YOO calo- 
ries. They should partake of a slightly heartier luncheon and have their 
principal meal at the close of the day's work, allowing four or five hours 
for its digestion before retiring. 

Individuals in the busy marts of commercial life, whose work is quite 
equally divided between the morning and afternoon, and whose social life 
is relatively simple, should, if possible, take the leisure for a warm noon 
meal, with a sumptuous dinner in the early evening. They require a 
dietary that will yield from 2,800 to 3,000 calories daily. 

For persons who lead a life of leisure, keeping late hours at night, the 
most convenient arrangement is a light breakfast of fruit, cereals, possibly 
an egg with coffee; a light luncheon about midday; and a dinner at five 
p. m., with a light supper, not too unwholesome and with very little stimu- 
lating beverage, containing either xanthin or alcohol, at eleven or twelve 
in the evening. 

Night workers usually go to bed as soon as possible after finishing 



92 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

their allotted task. Manual laborers working at night require the same 
arrangement of meals, at opposite hours, as day laborers. Business or 
professional night workers usually begin and close their work at relatively 
earlier hours in the evening and morning than corresponding day workers 
in the morning and afternoon, respectively ; consequently, they have more 
time before luncheon, after completing their sleep, than day workers have 
before breakfast, and they can very well use the ordinary luncheon and 
dinner and take a light supper towards the close of the night's work. 

Heretofore it has been taught that a full stomach is a protection 
against prolonged physical and mental fatigue, exposure to cold, dampness 
and infection. This is true in the sense that the increased demand for 
nutriment should be met by hearty meals, even at unusual hours ; but it 
is a dangerous fallacy, if construed as an indication for overeating or for 
eating at too short intervals. Coffee, tea and chocolate have their greatest 
value and alcoholic beverages their greatest danger in meeting such emer- 
gencies. In Volume I, Chapter XVI, we have already taken occasion to 
point out the danger, in particular, of drinking spirituous liquors before 
going out into the cold. 

REGULARITY OF MEALS 

It is an indisputable fact that regularity in partaking of meals is ad- 
vantageous, but it is not necessary to make oneself a slave to the clock by 
insisting on minute punctuality for mealtime. It is not wise to eat 
heartily simply be(;ause it is mealtime, in the absence of appetite; neither 
is it advisable for a person in normal health to skip a meal unless there 
is some derangement of the digestive organs. Variety in diet is an impor- 
tant factor in stimulating the appetite and digestive secretions. Variety, 
however, does not necessitate the use of imported or expensive foodstuffs. 
A reasonable degree of uniformity in diet in the organic nutrients or even 
in the groups of foodstuffs, fats, proteins, carbohydrates, etc., should be 
followed, but the different varieties of bread and crackers, meats, fruits, 
etc., should be freely used with different methods of cooking and flavoring. 
The benefit ascribed to the change of climate and scene is often due to a 
change of food and cooking. Frequently perfectly wholesome and even ex- 
pensive and well-cooked foods fail to fulfill their function, simply for want 
of ingenuity on the part of the cook to afford variety and pleasing flavor. 

It is regrettable that an absurd custom has been inaugurated in Amer- 
ica of omitting breakfast, or of taking only coffee and a roll. This habit 
was introduced by Americans who had traveled in France, where this 
absurd custom exists. 



SLEEP AND DIGESTION 93 

SLEEP AND DIGESTION 

The young infant should spend the greater part of his time in sleep, 
awakening only to take nourishment and remaining awake but a short 
period of time necessary for exercise. During the second and third years, 
the child requires about fourteen hours' sleep, gradually reduced to twelve 
by the eighth or tenth year and to ten hours at the close of adolescence. 
Eor detailed information pertaining to diet and sleep at different ages and 
physiological periods, the reader is referred to Volume II, Chapter XI. ■ 

During active adult life the amount of sleep depends to some extent 
upon heredity and bodily vigor, but largely on the severity of mental and 
physical activity; it is greatest in youth and least in old age. The 
overworked medical student requires more sleep than most other profes- 
sional students, or than the average college student. For severe mental 
and manual labor, ten hours' sleep are usually required. Light physical 
labor, routine clerical work and easy professional occupations require only 
seven or eight hours' sleep. 

Sleep favors digestion and allows time for its chemical process to be 
completed before the next meal, so that appetite is awakened. There- 
fore, from a physiological point of view, the proper time for the largest 
meal for farmers and mechanics is in the early part of the day, because a 
hearty supper ingested the evening before is out of the stomach by mid- 
night and the digestive organs have had eight hours' rest before 8 a. m., 
when the logical time for a hearty meal occurs. Farmers and those en- 
gaged in manual labor, mechanics and others, are accustomed to have a 
very heavy, substantial breakfast. 

It is a fact well known that eating a heavy meal brings about a degree 
of hebetude by diverting the blood from the brain to the stomach, and 
therefore, one should not retire until two or three hours after eating a 
hearty dinner. If an individual retires four or five hours after dinner, 
he will be able to get along very well with six or seven hours' sleep, but 
if he goes to bed immediately after a hearty meal, he usually requires from 
eight to ten hours' sleep. 

The metabolic processes of the body are least active during quiet, deep 
sleep. During sleep the body rests, which is often quite as necessary for 
healthy digestion as sleep itself; indeed, the great tax upon the digestive 
organs for metabolizing the full meal is little appreciated, judging from 
the strenuous physical and mental stunts performed by some people imme- 
diately after eating. "We all realize that sound sleep often dissipates in- 
digestion. For the performance of the proper physiological functions of 



94 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

the digestive organs much blood is required, which is not usually com- 
patible with full functional activity either of the brain or the muscles. 
Physicians have found that, for this reason, a brief rest after each meal 
contributes largely to its digestion. Pavlov and other physiologists 
have proven beyond doubt, by producing artificial fistulas in the various 
organs of animals, that an enormous amount of blood is directed from the 
periphery of the body to the digestive organs, and that the respective di- 
gestive juices are secreted in greater abundance and with greater rapid- 
ity during the normal digestive process. From habit, the system becomes 
accustomed to fairly active physical exertion and even to engrossing men- 
tal activity after a moderate meal. Yet for one's well-being it is advis- 
able to eat two or three hours before any exceptional strenuous physical 
exertion or difficult mental application is undertaken and to rest or even 
take a nap after a hearty meal, and not to eat too heartily just before 
retiring. 

OCCUPATION AND DIGESTION 

We had occasion in the early part of this chapter to refer to work as 
stimulating appetite and digestion. It is known that agreeable occupa- 
tion stimulates ambition, creates the healthy habit of thinking and study, 
and leads to optimism which in turn promotes good digestion. We all 
know that the worst dyspeptics are the disgruntled and pessimistic indi- 
viduals who have nothing to do but to eternally bore their friends by out- 
lining their ills. !Many of this class do not work because some relative's 
will left them in affluence. Some of these affluent individuals spend their 
time with sports, while others, devoid of all sporting proclivities, readily 
develop dyspepsia, hypochondria and melancholia. The former would be 
far healthier and happier if a part of their time were occupied in some 
iiseful vocation ; others follow no vocation because the compensation is in- 
adequate or their services are not sought, or they fail to fiud the kind of 
work for which they are best adapted. It is apparent to the thinking 
physician that psychical and dietetic treatment for this class of patients 
is far preferable to the customary wholesale administration of dyspeptic 
and nervine remedies which not only do no good, but^ beyond doubt, are 
harmful by their chemical action in the system. 

VARIETY IN DIET 

Monotony in diet does not augment appetite nor facilitate digestion. 
This is emphasized by Barr in his published results on the monotonous 



VARIETY IN DIET 95 

feeding of prisoners. He says the continued serving of one kind of food 
in one way causes loss of appetite, vomiting, flatulence, diarrhea or ob- 
stinate constipation. The great Shakespere said: "Let good digestion 
wait on appetite and health on both." 

It is a mistaken idea to bring up children without teaching and train- 
ing them to eat all kinds of foods. It is likewise a mistake to say that a 
boy or girl at puberty, or an individual in adult life or even old age, is 
too old to acquire a liking or appetite for a particular kind of food that 
he has never tasted, or even a food that he became disgusted with years 
before, perhaps because of partaking too freely of it. 

We have already had occasion to point out the reasons for variety in 
diet. We wish to emphasize them again: First, to make it possible for 
individuals to live in any part of the world; second, to enable them to 
have a greater variety of food which permits of a better balanced ration; 
third, to inculcate the habit of eating different foods in youth ; fourth, to 
enable them to enjoy meals while traveling and sight-seeing; fifth, to en- 
hance their chance to recover from illness by being able to partake of a 
greater variety of nourishment. Older persons should be persuaded to 
cultivate an appetite for all kinds of wholesome food and not be content 
with one method of preparation. They should familiarize themselves with 
different methods of cookery, as the greater the variety, the better the ap- 
petite, and the more monotonous the fare, the poorer the appetite. 

An elaborate dinner usually consists of a double meal, the soups and 
entrees coming first, the "good things" last. The first dessert is repre- 
sented by compotes, sherbet, etc. Such meals are usually too elaborate 
and often represent an entire day's ration. "Good things" are on the 
whole richer in caloric value than the plainer or substantial fgods. An 
ice cream soda or sundae (sondhi) contains from 200 to 400 calories; a 
half pound of candy, about 900 calories ; a half pint of unshelled peanuts 
or almonds, 900 calories. Either of the latter also furnishes about 20 
grams of protein, a third of a day's ration. The intelligent laity and even 
physicians fail to realize that allowance should be made for such indul- 
gence in the ration for the regular meals. 

There is probably much truth in the belief that normal appetite forms 
a reasonable index of the dietetic needs for metabolism. If individuals 
free from digestive disturbances maintain a practically constant weight 
and a slight surplus of energy in a form of panniculus adiposus, without 
being too stout or too thin, it is not unreasonable to believe that their 
dietetic habits are not far removed from the metabolic needs of their 
bodies. 



96 THE HYGIENE OF EATING 

In this chapter we have endeavored to point out the necessity for the 
use of proper quality and quantity of food needs, and the absolute neces- 
sity of supplementing these by other accessory adjuncts to good digestion, 
in order to secure the best results. 

We pointed out in the preceding chapter, Analyses and Cooking of 
Foods, the reason for proper attention to the culinary art as well as the 
reason for the selection of proper variety, quality and quantity of food- 
stuffs. The illustrative tables on analyses of foods in Volume I, Chapter 
XIX, are very extensive and complete, giving the protein, fat, carbo- 
hydrate, ash, fiber and water content of every known article of food. 
These tables also show the caloric value per pound and per portion, so 
arranged that the physician or dietitian can, with ease and rapidity, pre- 
scribe a variety of diet either in health or for certain diseased conditions, 
and can at a glance know the caloric content of the ration. 

In the ensuing chapters of this work, the scientific application of 
trophotherapy to the general principles of nutrition both in health and 
in diseased conditions will be gone into very exhaustively. The reasons 
for subjecting patients suffering from various diseases to a strict dietetic 
therapy will be taken up, and the science of sitology, particularly as to 
the therapeutic value of foods in disease, explained. The apparent same- 
ness of diet in many affections is not real, as will be seen in the large 
number of foods allowed containing protein, carbohydrates and fat. The 
percentage of each element allowed in every case is not stated, because it 
must vary with the patient and can be safely left for the physician to pre- 
scribe after he has familiarized himself with food values and has studied 
the case. 

* RELATION OF MEDICATION TO MEALS 

Before closing this chapter, the author deems it advisable to refer to 
the relation of medication to meals. The directions and rules incorpo- 
rated herewith for prescribing certain medicines before meals, certain 
other medicines immediately after meals, and others one or two hours 
after meals, are based almost entirely on the writings of Dr. A. L. 
Benedict (1). 

Ordinarily, acids should be given before meals, especially when given 
to promote secretion of hydrochloric acid. It is well to bear in mind that 
half an hour should be allowed for their passage into the intestines before 
the meal is begun. If alkalies are used to reduce gastric acidity, they 
should be given one hour or more after the ingestion of the meal, and in 
some instances they should be repeated in divided doses. Alkalies when 



RELATION OF MEDICATION TO MEALS 97 

given for this purpose should bo prescribed in the form of carbonates. 
Some clinicians make a common error of regarding neutral salts of alka- 
line metals as alkalies. When there is a deficiency of hydrochloric acidity, 
hydrochloric acid should seldom be given less than an hour after meals, in 
order to permit the stomach to do what it can in this direction and some- 
times acids are needed in several divided doses given at intervals of half 
an hour. It should be borne in mind that acids must not be given after 
the stomach has emptied itself. The practice of prescribing hydrochloric 
acid before meals to reduce hypochlorhydria is useless. 

Simple bitters and other remedies used to spur on a flagging appetite 
or to stimulate gastric secretion should be given shortly before meals. 
Drugs which exert local irritant action, unless for some special reason, 
should be given during or after a meal in order to secure dilution and 
thorough admixture with the stomach contents. Drugs intended to exert 
a local action on the stomach, as bismuth, emulsions of bismuth, etc., 
should be given three or four hours after a meal and the interval between 
meals should be lengthened as much as possible to allow sufiicient time for 
their action. Drugs which exert a nauseating action should be given on a 
full stomach immediately after a meal, provided the physician desires to 
prevent their nauseating effect ; otherwise they should be given on an 
empty stomach. Remedies intended to exert their action mainly on the 
intestinal tract should be given about three hours after a meal, and in cap- 
sule form if they are decomposed by the gastric juice. Ordinarily, gela- 
tin capsules do not dissolve within an hour, but salol or keratin coatings 
may be employed for pancreatin, etc. Many substances, such as salol, 
salacetol, iodipin, etc., are not acted upon in any degree in the stomach 
and hence may be given immediately after a meal. 

Saline cathartics and purgative mineral waters usually act more ener- 
getically if taken half an hour or so before breakfast or before other meals, 
and may fail if given at night when the patient is about to retire. Other 
cathartics intended to act from a single dose are best given just before 
retiring. Laxatives when used regularly are usually given in small dos- 
age, preferably with meals, whether before or after being a matter of in- 
difference, unless their administration before meals should hinder appe- 
tite. Under such circumstances they should be given after meals. 

Corrosive medicines of all kinds, including the mineral acids and 
salts, should be well diluted and drunk through a tube, or the tongue 
should be used as a trough and the mouth should be immediately rinsed 
in either case, preferably with a dilute alkaline solution of soda or borax. 

Quinine and other bitter drugs may be given with chocolate to dis- 



93 THE HYGIENE OF EATIKG 

guise the taste. Jam, apple sauce, etc., may be used to disguise the taste 
of some medicines. 

The iodids and salicylates may be given in milk. The iron salts should 
be preferably administered in sirups, never in mucilages, both to disguise 
the taste and prevent corrosion. Castor oil may be given in whiskey, milk 
or fruit juices or after salt has been placed on the tongue. 

Since the digestion of fats and oils takes place only after saponifica- 
tion, cod liver oil should not be given until one and a half hours after 
meals. 

The food and digestive juices contain various substances more or less 
incompatible with certain medicines; for example, starch with iodin, 
hydrochloric acid with calomel, hydrochloric acid, proteins and mucin 
with silver salts ; tannin with alkaloids, iron and various other substances, 
and gummy substances with iron. To what degree these incompatibilities 
are of consequence, or how far they can be avoided, must be considered in 
each case, and for further information pertaining to these incompatibili- 
ties, the reader is referred to the various text-books on Materia Medica 
and Therapeutics. 

REFERENCES 

1. Benedict, A. L. Golden Rules of Dietetics. 

2. Cannon. Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear and Rage, pub. 

by D. Appleton & Co., 1915. 

3. liEA, Henky Charles. Superstition and Force, Philadelphia. 

4. Oechsler. Internat. Beitr. z. Path. u. Therap. d. Ernahrungs- 

storungen, 1914, vol. v, p. 1. 

5. Auer. J. Am. Med. Assn. 

6. Fletcher, Horace. The A B C of Nutrition, New York. 
Y. EiNHORN. New York Med. J., Jan. 7, 1905. 

. N. Y. Med. J., Jan. 7, 1905. 

8. Pavlov, Ivan Petrovich. The Work of the Digestive Glands, 

translation by Thompson, 1902. 

9. NiLES, Geo. M. J. Am. Med. Assn., March 29, 1913. 

10. Editorial, New York Med. J., June, 1915. 

11. Hawk. J. Am. Chem. Soc, 1911, vol. xxxiii, 1909. 

12. Cohnheim. Miinck med. Wochnschr., 1907, 54, 2581. 

13. GiGON (of Basel). Monthly Review of the U. S. Labor Statistics, 

vol. i, No. 2. 



CHAPTEK V 

VAEIOUS FACTORS BEARING 01^ DIET, DIGESTIOI^ AND 

ASSIMILATION 

IN COLLABORATION WITH 

A. L. Benedict, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P. 

The universe is naught hut by life, and all that lives is nourished. 

Transmutability and Reservation of Foods. 

Waste and Digestibility of Foodstuffs. 

Substitutes for Food. 

Starvation and Inanition: Starvation; Inanition. 

Fasting: Fasting in Religion; No-Breakfast Plan; Fasting as a Cure; 
Long-continued Undernutrition; Fasting Experiments; EflFect of Fast- 
ing on Metabolism. 

Perversion of Appetite: Parorexia, Anorexia, Bulimia, Polyphagia, 
Akoria, Polydipsia, Rumination, Merycism, Vomiting, Hiccough, 
Aerophagia, Seasickness. 

TRANSMUTABILITY AND RESERVATION OF FOODS 

From a careful study of the elements of foods, it is evident that one 
kind of food cannot be transmuted into a totally different kind. While 
we know that one saline may, to a slight degree, replace another in osmotic 
phenomena, and that even hydrochloric acid may be replaced by other 
strong acids in gastric digestion, yet sodium cannot entirely take 
the place of potassium, nor is it possible, because of its greater toxicity, 
for potassium to supplant sodium to any great degree. The calcium salts, 
being insoluble, are peculiarly adapted to the growth and development of 
the skeleton, and while magnesium salts are more or less associated with 
the calcium salts, they cannot be substituted for each other to any great 
extent. It is unnecessary to repeat similar citations for the various inor- 
ganic constituents of the body. This and the following paragraph are 
based largely on Chapter VI of Benedict's "Golden Rules of Dietetics" 
(Mosby Co.). 



100 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

When the various essential foodstuffs are administered in sufficient 
amount to furnish the requisite calories, and in a condition available for 
absorption and assimilation, it does not matter particularly in just what 
natural combinations they are employed. It is possible, though not always 
advisable, to replace water by substituting quantities of the various bev- 
erages and semisolid or solid foods containing it. During a twenty-four- 
hour period about 200 c.c. of water is evolved in the system from the 
oxidation of hydrogen in organic combination, especially from the carbo- 
hydrates, but also, to some extent, from fats and proteins. Therefore we 
may safely assert that no one natural foodstuff or group of foodstuffs is 
indispensable, or even particularly requisite for good nutrition, with per- 
haps the exception of milk in the case of infants. It is admitted that one 
may live on a strict vegetable diet for a protracted, if not for an indefinite, 
period, yet the entire absence of animal proteins is not conducive to a 
perfect state of health. Practically there is no essential difference between 
animal and vegetable protein, yet there seems to be a something in ani- 
mal protein that is not supplied by vegetable protein. Physiologists have 
been able to note that different individuals seem to reach their optimum 
on different proportions of animal and vegetable protein, and even on 
different proportionate uses of different groups of flesh, as that of quad- 
rupeds, fish and fowl, or of different species of meat, as beef, mutton, 
pork, etc. 

Theoretically, it is possible, and even practical, to replace the fats 
find oils with proteins and carbohydrates, without serious detriment to 
the human organism, as obviously no one particular kind of fat, as 
olein, palmitin or stearin, is indispensable *,. besides, these different va- 
rieties appear to serve a similar purpose, with the exception of stearin, 
which requires relatively more to replace the others progressively. So 
to a considerable extent the precise chemical nature of the deposited fat of 
an animal depends largely upon its diet, which may even be modified by 
artificial limitation. For instance, the fat of a hog, fed on corn and meal, 
will be white, firm and quite different from that of a hog fattened on 
slops and swill, so it is not improbable that the diet is relatively of great 
importance, and it is not at all unlikely that the yellow color of hninau 
fat is due, in part, to the large consumption of flesh and butter and a 
variety of natural pigments occurring in foodstuffs. The difference in 
the caloric value of the various varieties of fats and of carbohydrates is 
slight, scarcely sufficient to warrant the exact studies of calorimetry, 
owing to the preponderance of many sources of error. 

We learned when studying the proximate principles of foods in Vol- 



TEANSMUTABILITY AND RESEEVATION OF FOODS 101 

lime I, Chapter III, that all assimilable carbohydrates are ultimately 
broken down into simple hexoses, and more often into dextrose. Dur- 
ing the first year of life the child uses lactose almost entirely, though 
it can digest a small amount of starches during early infancy (1). Later 
in life the individual appetites for starches and sugars respectively are 
markedly different ; therefore, it is extremely difficult to state just how 
far these are physiologically interchangeable, and especially to calcu- 
late the exact available energy of any one sugar in the process of 
nutrition. Practical experience coupled with animal experimentation 
emphasizes the fact that the various sugars do not furnish desirable sub- 
stitutes for starch. The reasons for the non-transmutability of sugars and 
starches are (a) that the former when ingested in large quantities produce 
irritation of the mucous membrane, (6) cause fermentation, (c) and by 
overtaxing the glycogenic function of the liver allow a leakage of sugar 
into the circulation, (d) Besides there may possibly be other abstruse 
reasons. 

Experience confirms the fact that individuals who partake freely of 
cereals, potatoes, breadstuffs, etc., crave little sugar and vice versa, while 
the individual appetite for carbohydrates generally is inverse to that for 
hydrocarbons and proteins respectively and together, and that appetite for 
all food varies with the individual and with the season. The craving 
for sugar is not always due to a luxurious habit, though it may depend 
upon a relative, but still not an abnormal, weakness of digestive ferments, 
or even upon abnormalities of the intestinal canal. The consumption of 
sugar has increased considerably during the past two or three decades, 
commensurate with the growth of the cane and sugar beet industries 
(see Volume I, Chapter XVIT, Sugar, Spices and Condiments), also 
with the increasing magnitude of the culinary and confectioner's art. 
Benedict says, "An individual in normal health may ingest with impunity 
100 grams a day of carbohydrates in the form of sugar, while certain 
persons may take double this quantity without harm." 

Hydrocarbons are theoretically replaceable by other organic foods 
and even absolute fat-free diets may be allowed without harm, but the 
same statement cannot be made for carbohydrates. It is a known physio- 
logical impossibility for the system to digest and absorb more than a 
given definite maximum of fats, and 80 grams of carbohydrate are re- 
quired to prevent catabolic disturbances. We know that a too liberal 
allowance of meats induces an inevitable increase of nitrogenous waste 
products from the vicarious use of proteins. 

Proteins, unlike carbohydrates and hydrocarbons, are employed, not 



102 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTIOK AKD ASSIMILATION 

only to furnish heat and energy, but to replace wear and tear of the 
tissues. They are positively non-replaceable, beyond a certain percent- 
age, by either carbohydrates or fats, or even non-protein nitrogenous 
substances, such as gelatin and purins, free or combined. However, it 
should be borne in mind that beyond the minimum of 60 to 100 grams a 
day (the precise standard being an unsettled question), proteins should 
be replaced by carbohydrates and hydrocarbons, provided, of course, there 
is no metabolic disturbance such as diabetes and obesity. We know that 
within the system both the protein and carbohydrates may be trans- 
muted into fat and so deposited. Physiology definitely proves that 
dextrose and glycogen may be formed from fat or protein, and possibly 
from both. There is a popular idea that much energy may be accumu- 
lated by the excessive ingestion of foods, which is partially true, but 
the importance of this notion lies in the fact that it leads to over- 
eating. 

Deposited fat is the only evidence that a reserve energy of any im- 
portance is accumulated. The human body may put on 100 pounds of 
fat, or over 400,000 calories in potential energy, or the requisite amount 
to sustain the body for 200 days. Such a demand rarely happens in 
civilized life, and if so the body certainly would lack the power to utilize 
it, even with concomitant waste of protein tissue. There is no recorded 
case where the body reserve energy has lasted more than about forty days 
without a supply of organic nutriment from without. 

Carbohydrates may be stored in the body as dextrose in solution, and 
as glycogen in muscular tissue and gland cells, particularly in the liver, 
to the extent of 300 grams per day, just barely enough to supply a half 
day's caloric demands foivthe regulative functions. 

In studying Protein and Nutrition (see Volume II, Chapter VII), 
the researches of Chittenden, Fischer and others give proof that a small 
amount of protein in excess of the daily requirement for needed calories 
may be stored. Voit and other investigators, experimenting with dogs, 
conclude that the proportionate storage is between 5 and 8.5 per cent. 
Von Noorden(2) estimates that the human being can store about 10 per 
cent of the excess protein. So we may safely conclude that the energy 
eliminated from metabolized protein will aggregate about 90 per cent, 
and the stored protein will be in the neighborhood of 10 per cent of the 
amount ingested. In addition, it must be remembered that a small 
moiety of reserve protein occurs in the circulatory and lymphatic systems, 
while the remainder is stored in hypertrophic or in newly formed cells. 
So much protein is required to supply the wear and tear of normal mus- 



WASTE AND DIGESTIBILITY OF FOODSTUFFS 103 

ciilar tissues that only a very small amount can be stored as a reserve 
available in starvation or relative inanition. 

From the foregoing we may arrive at the following conclusions : 

(a) It is useless to increase the protein ration to create a reserve 
of force and tissue material, since such a course overtaxes 
the organs of excretion and increases the chances of auto- 
intoxication. 

(b) It is not, at present, an accepted fact that only the protein 
minimum — just enough to balance the nitrogen equilibrium 
— is the ideal ration. The proper nutrients for a normal 
body amount to at least three meals a day of a standard 
dietary. (Volume II, Chapter YII.) 

(c) The storage of hydrocarbons in persons of small stature 
should not exceed the caloric requirements for a forty-day 
fast — about 12 pounds for a man weighing 140 pounds ; a 
man of full stature should not carry more than 34 pounds 
of fat. 

(d) It is comparatively easy by superalimentation to increase 
body weight from one-half to one pound per day by depos- 
iting fat. Benedict believes that in the entire absence of 
food, even on exposure to cold or at strenuous muscular 
exertion, the body cannot utilize more than one-half pound 
of fat daily, and, while greater loss may occur in sickness, 
the physiological reduction of weight on a low diet will 
equal the rate at which fat can be deposited. 

WASTE AND DIGESTIBILITY OF FOODSTUFFS 

Benedict, who has studied this subject from every viewpoint, holds 
that the waste of foodstuffs occurs both economically and physiologically. 
First, the loss in transportation to the retail market; second, the loss in 
preparing and serving, besides the financial loss in using, often through 
ignorance, expensive nutrients of a lower protein or caloric value than 
cheaper foods. Again in the trimming and paring of foods, the cook 
often wastes large quantities and finally at the table the waste is consid- 
erable, when the serving is larger than is eaten, and must be borne in 
mind in all cases when computing nutrients from a caloric viewpoint. 

In the average well-to-do American family, the percentage of waste 



104 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

of digestible and assimilable foods in the kitchen and at the dining 
table ranges from 10 to 50 per cent. Gross waste is often dne to igno- 
rance on the part of the cook and other servants. On the other hand, the 
removal of fat, skin, seed pods, husks, cores and other indigestible por- 
tions of food material cannot be considered as waste, but both economically 
and physiologically the theoretic high food-value of fat meats must be 
discounted, because of the ultimate rejection of fat. 

Physiologically, food waste can be accounted for, first, by the ex- 
cessive ingestion of one or more kinds of organic nutrimenls, and, second, 
by the swallowing of foods which have been imperfectly comminuted. 
Vegetable foods swallowed whole, such as beans, peas, corn, huckleberries, 
etc., largely escape digestion, because their skins or husks, composed 
largely of cellulose matter, are not broken up. Likewise starchy vegetables, 
meats, eggs, etc., swallowed without proper mastication are wasted to a 
large degree. When milk is gulped down like water, it forms large curds, 
much of which is passed away unchanged. Alimentary saprophytosis 
is a possible aid in the digestion of certain food materials — especially 
vegetable foods containing cellulose material. The efficiency of the vari- 
ous enzymes and hormones exerts an obvious influence on the amount of 
alimentary waste; even when mastication is well performed and intestinal 
saprophytosis is within normal limits, there is considerable loss of food 
material. Atkinson calculates the utilization of some of the staple foods 
as follows : 

THE UTILIZATION OF SOME OF THE STAPLE FOODSTUFFS 

Meat and fish, .nearly 100% of protein, 79-92% of fat 

Eggs « 100% « « 96% " " 

Milk 88-100% " « 93-98% « " doubtful of carbohydrate 

Butter 9S% " " 

Oleomargarine.. 96% " " 

Wheat bread. . . 81-100% « " (too little fat to estimate) 99% carbohydrate 

Corn meal 89% « « « « « « « 970;^ 

Rice 84% « « « « « « « 99^ « 

Peas 86% « « « « « « « 950^ a 

Potatoes 74% « « « « « « « 92«^ « 

Beets 72% « « « « « « « 82% " 

The experiments of Leo Breisacher call attention to the loss of albu- 
min, as ranging from 2.9 per cent to 4.9 per cent on a milk and cheese 
diet, and 6.5 per cent, 7 to 7.1 per cent on milk alone. For loss on other 
diets consult the following tables from Breisacher, referred to by Benedict: 



WASTE AND DIGESTIBILITY OF EOODSTUFFS 105 

Percentage of Unabsorbed Albumin (Breisacher) 

Corn meal 15.5% Peas and bread .... 12.2% Wheat bread 19.9% 

Rice 20.4% Rye bread 22.2% Wheat bread 18.7% 

Peas, cooked soft. . . 17.5% Black bread 32. % Potatoes 32.2% 

Peas, cooked 27.8% Lentils 40. % Potatoes, lentils and 

bread 53.5% 

Percentage of Unabsorbed Fat (Breisacher) 

Olive oil (liquid at ordinary temperatures) . . . .2.3% 

Butter (melting point 31° C) 1.28-6% 

Lard " " 34° C 2.5% 

Tallow « " 49° C 7.4% 

Stearin « « 60° C 86-91% unabsorbed 

The excretion of fat in the stools varies v^ith the conditions under 
which it is ingested. During fasting there is a daily loss in the stools 
of somewhat more than one gram of fat. When the quantity ingested 
is from 25 to 40 grams, the loss varies from 10 to 15 per cent, i.e., about 
4 grams. When the quantity ingested is increased to 100 grams, the 
gross loss remains practically the same. The reduction in percentage 
may reach a point as low as 1.25 per cent. The explanation of this 
discrepancy is found in the fact that when very little fat is eaten, it 
consists chiefly of beef, mutton or other meat fat, and of vegetable fat 
which is embedded in the cellulose. The loss of fat when small quanti- 
ties are taken averages about the same as the loss during fasting, about 
1 gram daily. When the daily quantity of fat exceeds 150 grams, the 
loss increases in proportion and may reach 20 per cent. This high rate 
of loss is most apt to occur when oils having a direct laxative action are 
administered. With a coarse vegetable diet, the loss of all nutrients 
increases progressively. This effect is partly due to the laxative action 
of the so-called coarse vegetables. 

From these data it appears that the finer the subdivision of the food 
ingested, the larger will be the proportion of nutrients assimilated. 
For example, in the case of bread made from decorticated whole wheat 
meal, about 09 per cent of its protein and 92 per cent of its carbohydrates 
are utilized, while fine white bread made from bolted flour yields 81 per 
cent of its protein and nearly 100 per cent of its carbohydrates. Pota- 
toes offer another interesting example: As ordinarily cooked and masti- 
cated, this vegetable yields about TO per cent of its protein and 92 per 
cent of its carbohydrates to nearly 100 per cent. The class of coarse 
vegetables, including turnips, carrots, beets and cabbage after thorough 
cooking yield protein in the proportion of from 60 to 80 per cent, and 



106 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

from 80 to 85 per cent of carbohydrates. On the other hand, if these 
vegetables are not thoroughly cooked and well masticated, and if in 
addition they are habitually used and in generous quantities, their excre- 
tion may ultimately exceed their utilization. 

It has been estimated by Rubner that on an ordinary mixed diet the 
nutrient waste amounts to about 8 per cent of the total calories, and we 
may safely conclude, therefore, that from 200 to 300 calories of the 
standard ration may be considered as a physiological waste — by failure 
of digestion. This waste is taken into consideration when estimating the 
required calories which are stated in terms of ingested food. Therefore 
this variation is not of importance, and the physiological waste of nutrients 
need not be given any consideration. Variations in food waste may 
possibly explain the fact that, say, two persons of the same weight and 
following the same vocation may require different amounts of food to 
maintain normal weight and health. The fecal excretion from a normal 
person averages from 100 grams per day moist weight upward, and on 
ajialysis will be found to contain 20 per cent of fat and 7 per cent of 
albumin, estimated by multiplying the nitrogen by 6.25. In wasting 
diseases, it is considered practical to try to determine the amount of waste 
of nutrients in the alimentary canal, but the difficulty and expense usu- 
ally prevent such determinations. Still something may be accomplished 
by ordinary chemical tests and by macroscopic and microscopic exami- 
nation within the abilities of the clinician. 

Contrary to popular belief, it is quite difficult to give an intelligent 
opinion concerning a general comparison of foodstuffs as regards their 
digestibility. A few inorganic ingredients of the diet — such as water 
and salines — require no digestion. Benedict, who has studied this sub- 
ject very carefully and exhaustively, holds that we have no precise en- 
lightenment concerning the relative digestibility of hemoglobin, nucleins, 
lecithin, organic combinations of iodin as in the thyroid. Carbohydrates 
and proteins undergo many changes before final absorption. For instance, 
cooked starch is partially digested, both mechanically and chemically; 
dextrin, as in bread crust, is still further digested ; the double hexoses, 
as cane sugar, maltose — a stage of digestion beyond colorless dextrin — 
and lactose require inversion into single hexoses, and of the latter dex- 
trose is the ultimate one ready for oxidation, while levulose and galactose 
must be changed into dextrose. The hydrocarbons split into glycerol and 
fatty acids ; the former, uniting with water, forms glycerin, and the latter 
joins with alkaline bases and forms soaps, yet it does not appear that 
either glycerin or soaps can in any particular be considered as nutrients. 



I 



WASTE AND DIGESTIBILITY OF FOODSTUFFS 107 

There is still considerable uncertainty as to the digestion of fats. At- 
water estimates that 95 per cent of fat of all animals is absorbed, and 
only 90 per cent of the fat of vegetables. Rubner declares that only 80 
per cent of the fat from beef and mutton is absorbed. Butter is fairly 
well absorbed, while bacon fat is not so well absorbed, because it is 
enclosed in cells, and from 7.5 to 17.4 per cent escapes absorption. It 
is safe to assert that the lower the melting point of fat the greater will 
be the percentage of absorption. It has been found that about 51/0 
ounces can be absorbed without any loss being detected on examination 
of the fecal excreta. 

It is held that the coagulation of protein is a preliminary step in the 
process of digestion. Benedict holds that there may be some good 
grounds for the old theory that this stage in protein digestion acts as a 
safeguard against excessive protein nourishment, though of course he 
realizes that it is not a safeguard against the after-effects of the end 
products of protein digestion. Rennet coagulates the caseinogen of milk. 
The gastric, pancreatic and intestinal juices also coagTilate caseinogen, 
although the pathologic instances when the former fails to coagulate milk 
are nearly always confined to adults, and this peculiar factor of safety is 
not quite well understood. There is yet some question whether there 
exists a separate rennet ferment or ferments, or if coagulation is really 
brought about by pepsin, trypsin, and the intestinal activation for tryptic 
digestion. A certain amount of coagulation takes place in the process 
of cooking of proteins which may be considered a step in digestion; but 
the principal aim in cooking is to kill parasites, including various bac- 
teria, and at the same time to render the food more tasty and more readily 
masticated and comminuted. While artificial coagulation of milk by 
rennet may be considered a digestive process, yet it does not appear to 
aid its further digestion in the alimentary canal, and the curd if dried 
and reduced to a fine powder Is more difficult of digestion than raw cow's 
milk. The digestion of proteins, artificially, has not yet been successfully 
accomplished. The so-called predigested protein occurs mainly as albu- 
mose, and if the process is carried further it reaches the peptone stage, 
making a disagreeable bitter product, actually toxic. When reduced to 
the amino-acid stage there is a question whether the nutritive value is lost, 
but this has recently been stoutly denied. 

Vegefahle foods containing a relatively high percentage of cellulose 
are indigestible, not that cellulose itself is a nutrient, but that a mesh- 
work of cellulose incloses the starchy granules and other nutrients which 
escape digestion, and in this way causes considerable waste of food ma- 



108 FACTOKS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

terial. It must not be overlooked, however, that cellulose, especially that 
occurring in fine, threadlike meshes, is stimulating to peristaltic action. 
Cartilaginous or tendinous fibrous tissue is likewise indigestible, and 
when muscular tissue is not cut, chopped or ccjmminuted sufficiently, 
there will be considerable waste of nutriment. Many of the older physi- 
ologists worked out elaborate tables to show the length of time required 
for the stomach to perform its functions. W. Oilman Thompson (3) 
compiled a table showing the time of the average sojourii in the stomach 
of various food products. 3kIodern research emphasizes the physiological 
fact that this is not a test of digestion itself, because gastric digestion is 
not complete, for the reason that the process of digestion is only begun 
in the stomach. In other words, the function of the stomach is only to 
make ready the foodstuffs for the various processes of digestion. 

It is quite diflficult to arrive at an accurate estimation of the digesti- 
bility of fruits. If they are not well masticated or otherwise comminuted 
there is considerable waste. When thoroughly masticated, the water and 
inorganic salts are ready for absorption, and the metabolism of sugars 
is a simple matter. Most fruits contain too little fat to be considered 
and there is some doubt as to the actual degree of assimilation of the 
protein. Bananas contain a liberal quantity of raw starch, which places 
them in a class by themselves, so that they cannot be digested to any 
appreciable extent iintil they have reached the duodenum and beyond. 

SUBSTITUTES FOR FOOD 

Substitutes for food are often necessary, especially under conditions 
in which, from poverty or exposure, sufficient quantities of food cannot be 
obtained. Under such conditions, the craving of hunger may be dimin- 
ished and actual tissue-waste may be retarded by the substitution of cer- 
tain mild stiuiulants and beverages. Tea, coffee and tobacco all possess 
moderate actions in this respect, and alcohol under such conditions is both 
a stimulant and a food. Natives in various barbarous or semicivilized 
countries while performing long feats of marching, being often unable to 
obtain sufficient food with regularity, make use of a variety of different 
substances as substitutes for food, among which may be mentioned betel- 
nut, cola-nut, Siberian fungus, the coca leaf and pepperwort, which are 
chewed from time to time, and hashish and opium, which are both eaten 
and smoked. Various forms of alcoholic fermented drinks are made use 
of. Various concentrated foods of high nutritive value with small bulk 
may be used in the place of fresh foods. Attempts have been made from 



STAEYATION AND INANITION 109 

time to time by the heads of the principal armies of the world to supply 
a ration with concentrated elements for the use of troops on prolonged 
marches, but after a few days' subsistence on such a ration it has been 
found that the men lose weight and deteriorate in strength. 

STARVATION AND INANITION 

Starvation — Starvation is a condition brought about by insufficient 
food for the maintenance of the body. It is of rare occurrence in civilized 
communities. In such extreme cases, life may be maintained up to a 
limit of about 40 days if there is no deprivation of water and no exposure 
to cold. During prolonged deprivation of food the tissues become ex- 
hausted in inverse order .to their functional importance. So says Bene- 
dict in his valuable little work, "Golden Rules of Dietetics." The gly- 
cogen stored as a reserve is utilized within a few days, though sugar may 
subsequently be formed from protein. The hydrocarbons are exhausted 
at a rate varying according to circumstances and individual peculiari- 
ties, only about 1 per cent remaining. Wherever there is interference 
with the oxidation of fat as in certain pathological conditions, the patient 
dies virtually from lack of the ability to perform the various metabolio 
processes, while a relative excess of fat remains. The skeleton cartilages 
and dense fibers remain nearly in a normal condition ; likewise the heart 
and brain during starvation are almost entirely unimpaired, while the 
muscles and various glands are atrophied according to the ability of the 
body to spare their function. If water as well as food is withheld, deatTi 
will occur in from five to eight days. 

The period of time during which different individuals can subsist 
without food depends upon : 

(a) External conditions of temperature and moisture. 

(/;) The amount of work being performed. 

(c) The physiological conditions of the body. 

(a) The length of time that an individual can endure starvation is 
influenced by various factors. As has already been stated, exposures to 
cold reduce vitality and lessen resistance, so that under these conditions 
the period of endurance is shortened. A moist atmosphere by prevent- 
ing surface evaporation helps to prolong the possible period of starvation. 
And finally the maintenance of a uniform temperature of the surround- 
ing air also prolongs the period during which a man can abstain from food. 

(h) Individuals who move along the lines of the least resistance, shun- 
ning every form of exercise, can live much longer without food than those 



110 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

undergoing strenuous exercise. In time of famine, self-forgetfulness by 
diverting tlie mind from the sufferings of the body tends to prolong life. 

(c) The full-fed, well-nourished endure longer intervals of abstinence 
from food than weakened invalids. The distressed mental condition 
attending delirium may be increased by lack of sufficient nourishment. 
Sex seems to exert no influence upon the effects of starvation, which are 
most keenly felt at the extremes of age, by young children and aged 
persons. 

The author, while serving in the United States Marine Hospital 
Service, attended four sailors who had been shipwrecked and picked up 
at sea and brought ashore. These men, after recovery, related that when 
the small amount of water and food which they fortunately had, gave 
out, they cast lots among themselves (five in number) to determine which 
one of the party should die in order that the remaining four might par- 
take of his flesh and blood for subsistence. They were the most wretched 
and despicable human beings imaginable. 

A pathetic account of the miseries of starvation is reported in the 
journal of Lieutenant De Long(4). W. Gilman Thompson, in his work 
on "Practical Dietetics," quoting from De Long, says : "After leaving their 
sinking vessel, the members of the Arctic expedition were exposed, at first 
in open boats and later in their long sledge journey, to the most exhaust- 
ing work and to intense suffering from cold and wet. They frequently 
dragged their sleds in severe storms for ten or twelve miles a day, while 
subsisting solely upon half a pound of stewed deer meat, with a little tea 
three times a day.. This food being exhausted, they were obliged to con- 
sume the meat of their last remaining dog, which they ate fried. They 
subsisted upon this food exclusively for four days longer, having an allow- 
ance of but half a pound a day, and finally their last journey of twenty- 
five miles was performed with no other nourishment than a few ounces of 
alcohol and an infusion made from some old tea leaves. During this time 
their intense suffering from hunger was partially alleviated by chewing 
scraps of deer skin, which, from its bulk in the stomach, seemed to afford 
slight relief." De Long quotes from the physician in his Arctic expe- 
dition: "Alcohol proves of great advantage; it keeps off the craving for 
food, prevents gnawing at the stomach, and has kept up the strength of 
the men on an allowance of three ounces per day. 

"The alcohol being exhausted, they lived for another day upon a tea- 
spoonful of olive oil, with a breakfast composed of an infusion made from 
the Arctic willow (containing really no nourishment) and 'two old boots.' 
After this the men, becoming weaker and weaker, were unable to proceed 



STARVATION AND INANITION HI 

farther on their journey, being driven back by intense cold and the dif- 
ficulty of crossing the partly frozen rivers. Their feebleness gradually 
overcame them, until one by one they died of inanition. Four men sur- 
vived for sixteen days upon absolutely no food whatever, and possibly their 
sufferings were even further prolonged, but the journal of their gallant 
and heroic commander ceased at this point, for he, too, died." 

Inanition — Inanition is the inability of the tissues to assimilate food. 
The term should be restricted to those cases of acute starvation observed 
in early life. It is characterized by loss of weight due to a disordered 
metabolism. This condition is characterized by fever, and the malady 
is not infrequently mistaken for some other disease. It follows the 
ingestion of improper food or abstinence from food, where infants are 
abandoned, or other cases that are grossly neglected and starved. Gross 
errors in feeding are a contributing cause — where food is given which is 
absolutely unsuited to the needs of the child. 

Individuals who are well supplied with a reserve of food stored in 
their tissues can resist starvation by calling upon this reserve to maintain 
the energy of the body in the absence of food ; and, having a larger supply 
than thin or emaciated persons, they can withstand starvation for a much 
longer period, although they may complain more bitterly of the pangs of 
hunger than individuals previously accustomed to a scant diet. 

Experiments were conducted by Chossat to determine the rapidity of 
the loss of body weight, etc., and it was found that starving animals, 
while losing 40 per cent of their body weight, lost in fat 90 per cent. 
"Anselmier fed starved dogs upon their own blood and succeeded in pro- 
longing their lives for three or four days beyond the usual limit, until 60 
instead of 40 per cent of their body weight had been lost." During the 
winter of 1776 and 1777 an accident occurred in a colliery in South Wales 
which resulted in the imprisonment of four men and a boy for ten days 
without food. When they were rescued they were alive, though very 
feeble, and were able to walk when released. Fortunately, a supply of 
water was available and the atmosphere in which they were confined was 
moist. A second accident occurred in this colliery and a number of men 
were confined in a mine for six days without food, and while their suf- 
ferings were extreme, nearly all were able to walk on being rescued. From 
this we may assume that the lack of food may be endured with far less 
torture if water is applied internally and externally. When water is with- 
held in such a condition, the body loses weight very rapidly, the tissues 
become dry, thirst excessive, the secretions suppressed, and suffering is 
very greatly intensified. 



112 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

FASTING 

Fasting is one of the most ancient religious rites of which there is any 
record. More than two thousand years ago the fasting cure was advocated 
by the school of the natural philosopher^ Asclepiades(5), who also applied 
the "water cure." It is recorded that Plutarch said, "Instead of using 
medicines, rather fast a day." 

Fasting in Religion. — It was practiced, as stated above, in connection 
with religious ceremonies and so came to be considered an inseparable part 
of almost all such observances. Thus we read in a queer old book, entitled 
"Of Good Workes, and First of Fasting"(6), that the Church of Eng- 
land speaks of fasting and of its treatment by the Council of Calderon 
as follows : 

The Fathers assembled there . . . decreed in that Council that every person, as 
well in his private as public fast, should continue all day without meat and drink, 
till the evening prayer. And whosoever did eat and drink before the evening 
prayer was ended should be accounted and reputed not to consider the purity of 
his fast. The canon teachetli so evidently liow fasting was used in the primitive 
Church, as by words that cannot be more plainly expressed. 

From the above quotation we find that fasting was considered to be a 
highly important part of the religious ceremony, and of spiritual salva- 
tion. We find this same idea expressed throughout the Holy Writ in 
passages too numerous to mention (7). The excellent work, "Vitality, 
Fasting and Nutrition," by Carrington (Rebman Co.), has been freely 
consulted and quoted in the preparation of this section. 

We hardly need to be reminded that the Holy Nazarene himself fasted 
for forty days. Many people accept Christ's forty-day fast as sufficiently 
explained by his supposedly Divine Power. It was, in short, a miracle 
which would be impossible under ordinary circumstances for any other 
nian. Dr. Tanner aroused the whole scientific world a few years ago 
by fasting forty and again forty-two days, on two separate occasions, and 
while charges of "fraud" were circulated at the time and believed in by 
many, yet no one who took possession of the facts of the case gave any 
credence whatever to these stories. Great as was the prejudice in profes- 
sional circles, and bitter as was the feeling at the time, no direct charge 
of fraud could be made, for no atoms of proof of such were forthcoming. 
The general view of fasting is probably well summed up by the Reverend 
Puller(8) when, in discussing the previously mentioned cases of fasting 
during Lent in Jerusalem, he remarks : 



FASTING 113 

Such fasting is certainly, for the mass of English people, impossible now. It 
seems to me that this great difference in the power of fasting, which is quite in- 
disputable, must be taken into account, when we are considering how to apply the 
Apostolic rule to modern circumstances. 

Victims of forced fasting and starvation become so ravenous that all 
sense of taste gives place to intense hunger. Muscular action is no longer 
possible. There is vertigo and faintness on raising the head, the voice 
is lost, and gradually the nervous system succumbs to languor and general 
prostration. Chambers records an occurrence where three men and two 
boys were starved for twenty-two days in an open boat. They had ten 
days' ration to start with, and subsequently nothing but old boots and 
jellyfish, and they fought violently with one another over these. 

Robert de Moleme, the founder of the Cistercian brotherhood, was overcome 
with grief on learning of the death of a female friend, and like General Boulanger, 
resolved to follow her to the Land of Shades. Being averse to direct suicide, he 
retired to the mountain lodge of a relative friend, and abstained from food in the 
hope that one of his frequent fainting fits would fade into the sleep that knows 
no waking. But finding himself alive at the end of the seventieth day, he recon- 
sidered his resolution and began to suspect a miraculous interposition of Provi- 
dence. By resuming his meals, in half ounce installments, he contrived to recover 
from the condition of frightful emaciation, and in the supervision of an ever-in- 
creasing number of scattered monasteries, led an active life for the next fourteen 
years (9). 

No-Breakfast Plan. — The American apostle of "fasting as cure for dis- 
ease" was the late Dr. Dewey (10), who recommended fasting as a relief 
for certain disorders. That short fasts are beneficial to many people there 
can be no question. Such fasts have been practiced from time immemorial. 
Dewey was the first to urge the "no-breakfast" plan of restricting the 
intake of food, on the supposition that the majority of people consumed 
a great deal more food than was required. 

This apostle says (11) : "There is no necessity, after a night of undis- 
turbed restful sleep, to partake of food ; sleep is not a hunger-causing 
process." He deprecates the American breakfast, holding that when "we 
arise in the morning with our brains recharged by sleep, we should at 
once go to our place of business." He also says it is "a foolish expendi- 
ture of energy to take any kind of physical exercise in the early morning," 
holding to the view that when one has worked long enough he will be- 
come fatigued, and when this point is reached, he should have a period of 
rest preceding the partaking of food. 



114 FACTOKS IN DIET, DIGESTIOi^ AND ASSIMILATION 

We cannot waste space in replying to his assertions. We agree, how- 
ever, that moderate fasts are beneficial, but should not be instituted except 
under the personal observation of the family physician. Dewey's no- 
breakfast plan is not an ideal institution for general application. It 
might be suited to the Eskimo, who consumes enormous quantities of meat 
and oil at one sitting, or for the city dweller, who keeps late hours and 
partakes of midnight suppers, who is a spender and not a producer, but 
for the business man, a light repast to break the fast is necessary. 

The Frenchman, as a rule, with the exception of his roll and cup of 
chocolate in the morning, partakes of but little food until midday. The 
Englishman consumes a rather hearty breakfast at an early morning hour, 
which the average American and Canadian consider meager. The two 
latter want meat, cereals, fruits and coffee. It is not disputed but that 
many people would be in better health if they had no breakfast at all, 
but, generally speaking, most Americans eat too much at all three 
meals. 

An ideal breakfast for those following sedentary occupations is a fruit, 
a cereal, an egg or a piece of breakfast strip, a roll and a small cup of 
coffee. As said before, we are opposed to the no-breakfast plan, believing 
that the body has need for material to produce heat and energy, and ab- 
stinence from food until the middle of the day tends to draw too heavily 
upon the reserve store of protein and glycogen, and possibly to a limited 
extent upon the store of fat. Tlie no-breakfast plan would not satisfy the 
wants and needs of the majority of live active individuals who lead strenu- 
ous lives, and again the no-breakfast eater is usually a complaining, 
scrawny, puny individual as compared with the hearty breakfast eater. 

Fasting as a Cure — It is claimed by devotees of fasting as a cure that 
the principle on which the hunger cure acts is one with which all physiol- 
ogists are acquainted. During a fasting condition, nature makes an effort 
to rid the body of effete material. This the author experienced in a ten- 
day fast a few years ago. He was suffering from intestinal stasis with 
putrefaction of the alimentary contents. The end products of protein 
digestion were greatly disturbing the metabolic processes of the body, re- 
sulting in both mental and physical hebetude. At the suggestion of a 
medical confrere, the author went on a ten-day fast with no aliment ex- 
cept strained vegetable soup made without meat or fats. The craving 
for food was very strong for the first two or three days, but after this, 
going without the ternary food elements caused very little, if any, incon- 
venience or annoyance, except for the elimination of most offensive ex- 
creta, which was aided by the self-administration of Russian mineral oil. 



FASTING 115 

When he returned to his former dietary habits, which were slowly and 
carefully resumed, there was noticeable improvement in his condition. 

Temporary denutrition exercises a favorable influence in certain dis- 
orders, more particularly of the alimentary tract, such as intestinal auto- 
intoxication, intestinal stasis with putrefaction, intestinal toxemia, etc. 
It gives nature a chance to clean house. The organism, on a starvation, 
dietary, soon begins to lessen the outgo of energy. The movements of the 
organs of respiration slow down, the temperature drops slightly below 
normal, the secretion of bile and uric acid is lessened, and later it is 
claimed that there is retrenchment of the assimilative functions, reacting 
on the intestinal organs, the colon contracting, while the "small intestine 
retains all but the most irritating ingesta." 

Beyond question, by temporarily depriving the body of the supply of 
food it has been continually ingesting in excess of actual needs, we give 
the organs of elimination a chance to clean the polluted sewers, and to un- 
load tl:e superfluous impurities by the various eliminative organs, which 
exerts a beneficial effect to the whole organism. 

long-continued Undernutrition. — Man, after all, is more or less a 
creature of habit, and really the whole question of the amount of food daily 
ingested is essentially one of habit. As Chittenden (12) has aptly said: 

The so-called cravings of appetite are purely the result of habit. A habit, once 
acquired and persistently followed, soon has us in its grasp, and then any devia- 
tion therefrom distiirbs our physiological equilibrium. The system makes com- 
plaint and we experience a craving, it may be, for that to which the body has 
become accustomed, even though this something be, in the long run, distinctly in- 
jurious to the welfare of the body. There has thus come about a sentiment that 
the cravings of the appetite for food are to be fully satisfied, and this is merely 
obedience to Nature's laws. The idea, however, is fundamentally wrong. Anyone 
with a little persistence can change his or her habits of life, change the whole 
order of cravings, thus demonstrating that the latter are purely artificial, and that 
they have no necessary connection with the welfare or needs of the body. In other 
words, dietetic requirements are to be founded, not upon so-called instinct and 
craving, but upon reason and intelligence. 

After all, undernutrition can only be followed by disastrous results 
if long continued. Many are the human derelicts stranded on the rocks 
of semistarvation, "especially of protein starvation, the result of having 
been compelled to subsist, as many poor but respectable people have been, 
for a prolonged period upon 'bread and tea' because of the deficiency of 
protein in these foods. Deficiency of protein leads to wasting and degen- 
eration of all muscular and nervous tissues; and, even when it is barely 



116 FACTORS m DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

sufficient, the individual does not always ultimately recover, but is prone 
to remain neurotic and subject to many ailments." 

Fasting Experiments — Fasting, of late years, has been attempted either 
by love of notoriety or desire for pecuniary gain by persons exhibiting 
themselves for gratification of public curiosity. They are generally frauds 
and are fed by some one in collusion with them. In a number of cases, 
the subjects have been carefully studied by medical experts, and there is 
no question that in some instances, at least, the fasts have been conducted 
with honesty. Thompson (3) reports two authenticated fasts where 
Tanner and Succi were the subjects. A period of starvation was prolonged 
for 40 days and over. In both instances fluids were allowed, and in one 
of the men intense epigastric pain and food craving was ameliorated by 
medication. 

"Succi, an Italian subject, in 1890, undertook an absolute fast of 40 
days, during which time he lost 421/2 pounds and drank an average of 
25i/> ounces of water daily. The water he consumed was in the form of 
plain water, mineral water and ice. He lost flesh very rapidly during the 
fast, but on the last day he had strength sufficient to walk around the room. 
When he resumed eating he first took cocoa and subsequently bouillon 
and other light liquid diet, gradually returning to solid food. His mental 
faculties were unimpaired throughout. He occasionally took small doses 
of a few drops of an elixir supposed to contain opium." 

Luigi Cornaro, a Venetian gentleman, published a treatise on a "Tem- 
perate Life," advocating a very abstemious diet He says : 

I do not know whether some desperate degrees of abstinence would not have 
the same effect upon other men, as they had upon Atticus who, weary of his life as 
well as his physicians, by long and cruel pains of a dropsical gout, and despairing 
of any cure, resolved by degrees to starve himself to death, and went so far, that 
the physicians found he had ended his disease instead of his life ! 

His case is often referred to as an illustration of the smallest quan- 
tity of food which will support life. In his early days he was a reckless, 
intemperate youth, and spent his time "in riotous living." Later he re- 
formed and by careful dieting prolonged his life to 103 years. During 
the last 48 years of his existence, he subsisted largely on an allowance of 
twelve ounces of vegetable food and 14 ounces of wine. Occasionally, he 
partook of eggs, but rarely took any other form of animal food. While 
there may be much wisdom in his doctrines as published, unfortunately 
no one who has attempted to put his teachings into practice has been 
similarly rewarded with a long life. The majority of mankind would, 



FASTIKG 117 

for the pleasures of the palate, prefer to live fewer years in lieu of the 
pleasure of being less abstemious. 

Periods of voluntary fasting of varying duration are practiced by 
devotees of religious sects. This practice was formerly indulged in to 
a greater extent by ascetics than at the present time. Such practices, un- 
less they be definitely limited and supervised, may be carried to an ex- 
cessive or even injurious degree. When a man by fasting reduces him- 
self to the extent that his intellectual faculties are obtunded, he may be 
sure that he is doing himself injury. It would be far better for such 
individuals, for purposes of mental discipline or religious motives, to 
eliminate temporarily from the diet accustomed kixuries, or give up such 
articles in the daily ration as butter, sugar, salt, wine, tobacco, etc. This, 
in fact, is a custom practiced by many persons during the season of Lent. 
Contrary to the opinion once held by the laity, fasting cannot be regarded 
as favoring either clearness of intellect, muscular strength or endurance. 
Gerland emphasizes the folly of such practices, "the ethnologist can trace 
the physical and mental decay of whole nations to a long course of insuf- 
ficient food." 

Dr. William Stark, a young English physician, lived for forty-four 
days on bread and water, for a month on bread, water and sugar, and for 
three weeks on bread, water and olive oil. At the end of his experiments 
he was in a very enfeebled state of health ; he developed symptoms resem- 
bling scurvy, and ultimately died, apparently a victim of his own scien- 
tific enthusiasm (13). 

Effect of Fasting on Metabolism — A knowledge of the metabolic changes 
occurring during a fast is of great importance both physiologically and 
pathologically. Many important physiologic discoveries were made pos- 
sible by experiments on fasting animals and men, while pathology has 
benefited by examinations of diseased persons who were starving or nearly 
starving. 

The effects of fasting on metabolism have been studied at length by 
Benedict (14). He carried out an experiment on a man during a seven 
days' fast. He found the loss was estimated to be: protein 69.5, fat 139.6, 
glycogen 23 grams per day, yielding 1,597 calories. The loss of protein 
equaled 347 grams of flesh; the actual loss of energy measured by the 
calorimeter was 1,696 calories per day or 100 grams more. The heat of 
combustion can be calculated from the known heat value of the sub- 
stances, 1 gram of body protein yielding 5.65 calories, and 1 gram of 
fat 9.54 calories, and the total when fully oxidized would aggregate about 
1,734, so that during a fast the organism lives on its own flesh and fat. 



118 FACTORS m DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

The changes in the metabolism produced by sickness cannot be accu- 
rately determined without a knowledge of the changes due to simple inani- 
tion. The knowledge of the pathology of the metabolism of fasting is 
sensibly incomplete, though many additions have been made to it during 
the past few years. 

During the first few days of a fast, a man lives upon body glycogen, 
then upon his own protein and fat. In consequence, his respiratory quo- 
tient falls, which indicates the combustion of carbohydrates — to approach 
the values indicating the consumption of protein or fat. The more abun- 
dantly a man is fed preceding his fast, the greater will be his reserve sup- 
ply of glycogen when the fast begins, and as a result, the more slowly 
will his respiratory quotient diminish. This ex])lains the difference, dur- 
ing the first few days of fasting, between the well-fed men observed by 
Breithaupt and the underfed observed by Cetti (15). 





] 


FASTING METABOLIC 


EXPERIMENTS 






Cetti 


Breithaupt 


Days 


Per Kg. per Minute 


Per Kg. per Minute 


of 
Fast 


0, 


CO, 


Respiratory 
Quotient 


0, 


CO, 


Respiratory 
Quotient 


1 


4.86 


3.51 


0.72 


3.96 


3.48 


0.78 


2 


4.59 


3.13 


0.68 


4.32 


3.19 


0.74 


3 


4.48 


3.07 


0.68 


4.26 


3.12 


0.73 


4 


4.78 


3.10 


0.65 


4.38 


3.19 


0.73 


5 


4.68 


3.10 


0.66 


4.37 


2.75 


0.63 


6 


4.67 


3.13 


0.67 


4.35 


2.26 


0.86 


7 


5.06 


3.39 


0.67 


3.76 


2.60 


0.69 


8 


4.89 


3.33 


0.68 


4.07 


2.94 


0.72 


9 


4.62 


3.10 


0.67 








10 


4.67 


3.16 


0.68 









Von Noorden, in commenting on the results tabulated in the above 
table, says: 



The fact that the respiratory quotient at times fell below the theoretical mini- 
mum is explained by the conclusion that during repose and abstinence from all 
voluntary movements, small quantities of glycogen arising from the decomposition 
of protein collect in the liver and muscles. 

If this is so, muscular work, which decreases the decomposition of 
glycogen, must also increase the respiratory quotient. 

It is of great practical importance to know whether the physiological 



PERVERSIONS OF APPETITE 119 

laws of prolonged fasting hold good in chronic malnutrition. An indi- 
vidual in a condition of undernutrition through insufficient feeding might, 
under favorable circumstances, indulge in extravagant metabolism, as he 
does in acute fasting. "Again, he might establish a sort of automatic and 
purposive regulation, diminishing the amount of his metabolism when 
placed on a continuously inadequate diet." This brings up the interesting 
question, "What amount of food is necessary to maintain patients who 
are markedly emaciated from prolonged fasting." 

A case much quoted, recorded by Klemperer, emphasized the food re- 
quired to maintain nitrogen equilibrium. "A tailoress, aged 22, had been 
improperly nourished, and her weight fell from 50 to 36 kilograms; for 
eleven days she remained in nitrogen equilibrium at 18 calories per kilo- 
gram." Klemperer concluded that, as she was in nitrogen equilibrium, 
his patient was also in heat equilibrium, so that her diet of maintenance 
would be at the rate of 18 calories per kilogram of body weight per day. 
Von Noorden points out the error of Klemperer's conclusion, with the sug- 
gestion that after protracted malnutrition, the organism can retain nitro- 
gen to build up the cells demanding protoplasm, even when on a scanty 
nitrogen diet. Von Noorden says: 

When a poorly nourished individual after a protracted fast is allowed food, in 
an increased amount, sufficient to overcome the decrease in bodily heat, an effort 
is at once made to retain nitrogen and repair the loss of cellular material that has 
occurred. This retention of nitrogen goes on until the body has readjusted itself 
to the new conditions of nutrition. Then the loss of nitrogen begins anew, unless 
the calories required have been adequately supplied. 

Von ISToorden conducted many experiments to determine the requisite 
calories per kilogram per day, in order to maintain a permanent increase 
of weight, and found it did not occur until an intake of 30 to 32 calories 
was reached. 

PERVERSIONS OP APPETITE 

Parorexia — Parorexia (16), or perversion of appetite, is manifested 
for special or peculiar kinds of fat. There are three types : 

(a) Malacia, a desire for highly spiced foods^ such as mustard, vine- 
gar or green fruits, etc. 

(h) Pica, an inexorable desire for substances which are not foods, 
such as earth, chalk, pencils, ashes, sand and insects, etc. 

(c) x\llotriophagia, an insatiable craving for disgusting and harmful 
substances, such as fecal matter, pins, etc. 



120 FACTOKS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

Malacia is often observed in cases of disturbances of the stomach and 
neurasthenia, while the other types are found chiefly in idiots, lunatics 
or in severe hysteria. 

Anorexia. — Anorexia is loss of appetite, practically amounting to dis- 
gust for food, and is a precursor of acute gastric or intestinal disorders. 
In prolonged fevers such as typhoid, and some types of malarial infection, 
it may become necessary to force the appetite. In some instances the 
patient will feel a loathing for foods, or there may be absolute nausea ; at 
other times the patient may have a feeling that he simply cannot eat, but 
the thought or sight of food is not repulsive; again, the patient may have 
a slight desire for food, but from prejudice or otherwise, -which may 
amount to a delusion, he feels that food would add to his distress. 

There is great diversity of differences in the appetite of individuals 
and even in the same individual at different times. Repression of de- 
sires for food, excessive self-control and habitual abstemiousness, prac- 
tically amounting to obsessions, obtund the enjo>^nent of food. Whether 
due to actual lack of food, poverty, preoccupation or what not, the tonicity 
of the organs of digestion as well as of the musculature is seriously inter- 
fered with by prolonged insufficiency of diet. Nervous anorexia is a 
diminution of appetite, with absence of the hunger sense, so that even 
antipathy to food may be present. This condition is present in most of 
the organic as well as in the functional disorders of the stomach, but the 
nervous type appears as a primary affection, and has been attributed to a 
depressed condition of the hunger center, or to hyperesthesia of the mu- 
cous membrane of the stomach. 

Bulimia — Bulimia, or hyperorexia, is the habit of moderate over- 
eating by comparatively healthy individuals, and may be due in some 
instances to an erroneous conception of the actual amount of food neces- 
sary to maintain life. There seems to exist a popular impression that 
the standard of strength may be heightened or a reserve of vital force 
established by superalimentation. 

Certain diseased conditions, as intestinal parasites (not that the worms 
consume any notable quantity of nutrients), states in which the food 
passes rapidly from the stomach, certain forms of epilepsy and general 
paresis, sudden transition from the lap of luxury to poverty, may cause 
bulimia of a severe type. At times bulimia may be purely a matter of 
indulgence of the grosser appetites. For example, Benedict (14) reports 
the case of a young woman, otherwise dainty and refined, who would de- 
liberately excuse herself from the table, induce vomiting by running her 
finger down her throat, empty her stomach and return to the table to eat 



PERVERSIONS OF APPETITE 121 

another hearty meal. This method was frequently practiced by the Romans 
during their Lucullan banquets. 

Polyphagia — Polyphagia is the demand for large quantities of food 
before satiation occurs. The cases do not feel satisfied until .the food is 
digested. It often occurs as a primary condition in neurotics, or secon- 
dary to disease of the gall bladder, spleen, diabetes or brain tumor. 
Kemp (16) records a case that consumed 100 pounds of meat in 24 
hours, 

Akoria. — Akoria is the absence of satiety. Individuals with akoria 
never feel that they are fully fed. In fact, they never know when to stop 
eating. Sometimes this condition is combined with polyphagia, and is 
most often met with in neurasthenics and hysterics. 

Polydipsia. — Polydipsia, or excessive thirst, is symptomatic of diabetes 
mellitus and insipidus. It may be due to diarrhea, which it tends to main- 
tain ; to the ingestion of large quantities of salt and sugar, requiring dilu- 
tion ; to strenuous exercise, causing loss of water by excessive perspiration ; 
and if occurring very suddenly, it may indicate hemorrhage. Under some 
circumstances, it is due to habit, especially that of excessive tippling, 
more especially if the beverages contain xanthin. The drinking of water 
and milk in excessive quantities is a bad habit from a health point of 
view and is often indulged in through misconceptions of the hygienic 
value of liquid nutriment. This misconceived habit sometimes produces 
gastric dilatation in athletes, who endeavor to encourage strength and 
vitality by gulping large quantities of milk. Unfortunately health 
cranks, and many physicians as well, freely urge the drinking of exces- 
sive quantities of water, overestimating its value as an eliminant. The 
excretion of large amounts of water, free or nearly so from mineral salts, 
interferes more or less with osmotic processes generally by withdrawing 
the salts from the blood and tissues, and putting extra work on the circu- 
latory glandular and renal organs. If pure water is used, its irritant ef- 
fect on the gastric mucosa must be considered. There are persons, how- 
ever, especially the indolent and overworked, middle-aged and elderly 
women, who drink quantities of concentrated tea. This habit tends to 
develop a distaste for water. In such conditions, as will be seen, all the 
processes of the elimination and secretion are interfered with. 

Rumination. — Rumination applies more particularly to animals that 
chew the cud, whose stomachs are divided into four compartments. The 
first or largest division of typical ruminants is designated as the paunch ; 
the second, the reticulum ; the third, the osmasum psalterium or manyplies, 
and the fourth the abomasum or rennet bag. The ruminants swallow 



122 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

herbaceous food unchewed and it is passed into the paunch, whence later 
it is regurgitated in masses and thoroughly masticated and mixed with 
saliva while the animal rests, after which it is again swallowed. 

Merycism. — Merycism is a peculiar condition, rare, but sometimes 
found in neurotics who have the power of regurgitating food from the 
stomach. In some instances it has been claimed that they are able to 
bring up any particular article of food swallowed. Benedict, in discuss- 
ing this point, describes the habit as a pleasant one, which seems as a 
rule to do no harm, except as any neurotic indulgence, but doubts the 
possibility of selective regurgitation. The regurgitated morsel is said to 
often retain its original flavor, without sourness or bitterness, which would 
indicate a deficiency of acid secretion and peptonization or possibly some 
abnormality, on account of which the foodstuif is retained in the esophagus. 

The regurgitation of small quantities of the gastric contents occurs 
either as water-brash or otherwise with or without cardialgia — heartburn. 
This condition indicates a relative disproportion of function between en- 
dogastric tension and the normal tonicity of the cardiac sphincter. The 
most frequent cause of this condition is the use of too much liquid with a 
meal, or too hasty swallowing, so that too much air is introduced, or to 
fermentation of the stomach contents. Tonicity of the cardiac sphincter 
is largely a characteristic of the individual. For this reason, some per- 
sons cannot follow a vocation which requires stooping over soon after 
mealtime without regurgitating food from the stomach. 

Vomiting. — Vomiting occurs as a symptom of so many diseases and 
functional derangements that we will not attempt to consider the whole 
subject collectively, but will refer the readers to various text-books on the 
practice of medicine. Vomiting, so far as it is related to dietetics, may 
be caused by (a) excess of food, (h) food and drinks improperly combined, 
such as crabs and milk, beer and champagne, etc., (c) fermenting or 
poisonous food, (d) irritating and indigestible food, including that which 
is improperly cooked, (e) food that is eaten in too great haste and with- 
out proper mastication. 

Vomiting is mainlv a conservative process of evacuating excessive and 
irritating gastric contents. Individuals that do not vomit readily are 
more disposed than others to serious alimentary disturbances. Vomiting 
is always an indication of gastric disturbance or of biliary diseases. In- 
testinal obstruction, peritonitis, pelvic disease, etc., need not be considered 
here. Food which is wholesome and nourishing may cause nausea through 
association or environment. Thompson (3) records an example of this 
in the following story: A party of early California settlers while cross- 



PERVERSIONS OF APPETITE 123 

ing the continent were lost during a severe winter in the Sierras. When 
nearly dead of starvation some friendly Indians took compassion and fed 
them upon a delicious finely ground meal, which for some days was their 
staple article of diet, and on which they rapidly gained strength. Being 
at first unable to understand the Indians, the emigrants could not learn 
of what the meal was composed. When at length they found out that it 
was made from pounded dried grasshoppers they became so nauseated that 
they could not touch the food again. 

Such vomiting may properly be termed a pure psychosis due to disgust. 
From a dietetic standpoint, this form is important, since the nutrition 
of many delicate patients depends largely upon whether food is prepared 
in a sanitary and hygienic manner and daintily served amid pleasant sur- 
roundings. (Volume II, Chapter IV, Hygiene of Eating.) 

Hiccough. — Hiccough is an abrupt and involuntary spasmodic con- 
traction of the diaphragm with coincident contraction of the epiglottis. 
The ordinary cause for this phenomenon is engendered in the stomach 
by the too rapid introduction of alimentary substances, by alcoholic drinks, 
carbonic acid, as well as by certain foods. It must be borne in mind, how- 
ever, that it can also be caused by a deranged state of the nervous centers. 
If of brief duration, it is usually a gastric or esophageal refiex, more often 
the latter. Swallowing too rapidly, swallowing food that is too dry, or 
in boluses too large, will cause spasmodic esophageal peristalsis. Pro- 
longed singultus is a psychosis due to various reflex stimuli, as from 
biliary calculi, pelvic disease, etc. 

Aerophagia. — Aerophagia is to be distinguished from the eructation 
of gas due to the literal swallowing of air with food and drink. It must 
also be distinguished from gas produced by effervescence or fermentation, 
or from the action of gastric juices upon intestinal carbonates with the 
pylorus relaxed. Genuine aerophagia is an exaggerated condition of 
hiccough with the drawing of large quantities of air into the esophagus. 
It is more often a neurotic manifestation of hysteria, and while it may be 
associated with gas in the stomach it more often is excited by the causes 
of hiccough. 

During an acute aerophagic attack, patients may suffer from dyspnea, 
tachycardia and cyanosis. These distressing symptoms, according to 
Aaron(l7), are instantly relieved by introducing the stomach tube, which 
allows the air to escape. The distention of the stomach with air pushes 
the a]:>ex of the heart upward and to the left. This pressure on the ven- 
tricles rotates the heart on its axis and distorts the great vessels at its 
base. The distended stomach or esophagus may disturb the heart in a 



124 FACTORS IK DIET, i3lGESTI0K AKD ASSlMILATIOK 

reflex manner because the common innervation of these organs is through 
the vagi. Stimulation of the vagi causes a slowing of the heart. These 
factors often produce cardiac arrhythmias, which become apparent to the 
patients by periods of different pulse-rate and irregularities, causing them 
considerable worry and anxiety. 

It is of the utmost importance that an accurate diagnosis be made, 
because the affection is easily remedied. The roentgen fluoroscope will 
always show the rise and fall of the thyroid cartilage. This is helpful 
when one is not sure of his diagnosis. 

The examination of the stomach contents in all aerophagics shows the 
presence of bile. A positive reaction for bile, with eructations, is a pathog- 
nomonic sign. The eructation of the air acts as a siphon and frequently 
draws the bile from the duodenum backward into the stomach. The find- 
ing of bile in the gastric contents is decisive. 

In the treatment of aorophagy, Aaron is in the habit of impressing his 
patient with the way he is distending his stomach with air. This can 
easily be done by telling him to belch and, while this is going on, asking 
him to keep his mouth open. While the mouth is open he cannot swallow 
air and the eructations quickly cease. At this stage it is wise to explain 
to the patient that he has been swallowing air instead of emptying the 
stomach of gas. In order to keep the mouth open a cork may be placed be- 
tween the teeth and held there. In this way the air is prevented from 
entering the esophagus. Then again, in order to keep the thyroid carti- 
lage from rising, one may tie a ribbon moderately tight around the neck. 
This not only is a direct restraint but also serves as a reminder to the 
patient. After all, aerophagia is more amenable to moral suasion than to 
dietetic treatment. 

Seasickness. — Seasickness to some extent is produced or initiated by 
dietetic errors prior to or after sailing. It seems to be a disturbance of 
equilibrium partly visual but mainly due to actual motion of the vessel, 
and includes in its symptomatology and pathogeny a condition of shock 
and gastric irritability, sometimes one and sometimes the other being the 
predominant cause. A voyager from the tonic of the bracing sea air may 
inadvertently overeat and thereby overtax his digestive organs and cause 
vomiting. Some voyagers at sea can leave the table, vomit the first two 
or three courses of a dinner, return and finish the meal with astonishing 
equanimity. With such individuals nausea is not a persistent or annoy- 
ing symptom. Others are always nauseated, but fail to evacuate the 
stomach contents, and consequently grow weak from lack of food. Still 
others, after severe experience with emesis, strongly crave and can actually 



KEFERENCES 125 

retain and digest, in defiance of all dietetic laws, substances which they 
could scarcely eat at home. Old cheese, dill pickles, canned oysters and 
similar incongruities of diet are indulged in without a qualm. 

There is a class of individuals of both sexes, though the greater num- 
ber are women, who become so ill at sea that they reach a serious condition 
of prostration, with whom the mere idea of food or even the suggestion 
from reading an elaborate menu, will produce nausea. Certain cases 
are almost entirely free from vomiting, even from nausea in the ordinary 
secondary sense, and from any definitely localized pain, but consist in a 
state of general medical shock with intense discomfort. 

REFERENCES 

1. Fitch, W. E. Pediatrics, Oct., 1912. 

2. VON NooRDEN. Physiology of Metabolism, pub, by Keener, Chicago. 

3. Thompson^ W. Oilman. Practical Dietetics, pub. by D. Appleton 

& Co., New York. 

4. De Long, George W. The Voyage of the Jeannette, Journals of 

George W. De Long, 1883. 

5. Oswald, Felix L. Asclepiades, Household Remedies, 215. 

6. Of Good Workes, and First of Fasting, pub, in 16th century. 

7. The Bible. Neh. ix, 1 ; Esther iv, 3 ; Judges xx, 26 ; I Sam. vii, 

6; II Sam. xii, 16; Dan. x, 2, 3; Jonah iii, 7; Isa. Iviii, 3-6; 
Matt, iv, 2; Matt, vi, 16-18; Matt, xvii, 21; Mark ix, 29; 
Acts X, 30 ; Acts xiii, 3 ; Acts xiv, 23 ; Acts xxvii, 9 ; I Cor. vii, 
5, etc. 

8. Puller, Rev. Frederick W. Concerning the Fast before Com- 

munion, page 36. 

9. De Moleme, Robert. Fasting, Hydrotherapy and Exercise, page 

59. 

10. Dewey, E. H. The True Science of Living, page 95. 

11. . 7&ir^,, page 161. 

12. Chittenden, R. H, Century Magazine, Oct,, 1905, p. 860. 

1 3. Stark, William. See works by this author, pub. London, 1788. 

14. Benedict, A, L. Golden Rules of Dietetics, pub. by Mosby Co. 

15. VON NooRDEN. Mctabolism and Practical Medicine. 

16. Kemp, Robert Coleman. Diseases of the Stomach, Intestines and 

Pancreas, pub. by W, B. Saunders Co, 

17. Aaron, Charles D. J. Am. Med, Ass., 1914, Ixii, 2021. 



126 FACTORS IN DIET, DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Bayliss, W. M. The Physiology of Food and Economy in Diet, Long- 
mans, Green & Co., 1917, 

BuKiAN, R., and Schub, H. Cf. Macleod in Recent Advances in Physi- 
ology and Biochemistry, ed. by Leonard Hill, E. Arnold, 
London, 1905. 

Cathcakt, E. p. The Physiology of Protein Metabolism, Monographs 
on Biochemistry, Longmans, Green & Co., 1912. 

Chambers. Manual of Diet in Health and Disease. 

Chittenden. The Nutrition of Man. 

Flint. Physiology of Man, New York. 

GouLEY, J. Dining and Its Amenities, pub. by Rebman Co., 1907. 

Harris, J. A., and Benedict, T. G. Report Carnegie Institute of Wash- 
ington, 1919. 

Jones, W. Nucleic Acids Monographs on Biochemistry, Longmans, 
Green & Co., 1914. 

Leathes, J. B., and Haskins, H. D. Problems of Animal Metabolism, 
London, 1906. 

LosEE, J. R., and Van Slyke, D. D. Jour. A. M. Assn., 1917, cliii, 94. 

Mendal, Lafayette B., and Lyman, J. F. Jour. Biol. Chem., 1910, 
viii, 115. 

NivEN, James. Feeding in Relation to the Health of the Young, 1904. 

Shaffer, P. A., ^nd Coleman, W. Arch. Int. Med., 1909, iv, 538. 

Taylor, A. E., and Hope, W. B. Jour. Physiol., 1899, xxiii, 277. 

Thompson, W. Gilman. Diet in Relation to Age and Activity. 

See Life of William Stokes in Masters of Medicine. 

Van Slyke, D. D. The Present Significance of the Amino-acids in 
Physiology and Pathology, Harvey Lectures, Lippincott & Co., 
1915, 1916, p. 146. 



CHAPTER VI 



OVEEFEEDII^G AND UN^DERFEEDING 



In these days of overflowing American plenty, superalimentation, with its phif- 
siological penalties and economic waste, is possibly more prevalent than under- 
feeding, because of the sybaritic indulgence in the pleasures of the table in the 
absence of the physical stress of more primitive social conditions. And when appe- 
tite becomes pathologically exaggerated, the physician of today knows no remedy; 
when it fails in disease, he dispenses the ^'bitter herb" of tradition — and hopes for 
the best. 



Superalimentation: Overfeeding, Acute Overfeeding, Chronic Overfeeding; 
Overeating — Clironic Overeating, Gourmet, Gourmand, Glutton; 
Effects of Overeating — Biliousness, Intestinal Toxemia, Effects on 
Mental Powers; Habitual Overeating — Alimentary Toxemia, Effect 
on Internal Secretions, Effects on Children, Aged, Early Life, Idiosyn- 
crasy ; Metabolism of Overfeeding — Excess of Proteins and Carbohy- 
drates, Convalescents. 

Underfeeding: Chronic or Habitual Underfeeding; Maleficent Sequences of 
Underfeeding — Mental and Physical Deterioration, Diminished Re- 
sistance to Cold and Exposure, Disease, Effect on Digestive Organs, 
Underfeeding a Cause of Drinking and Crime; Protein Metabolism; 
Pathology of Metabolism of Starvation — Consumption of Energy in 
Chronic Malnutrition, Protein Metabolism in Acute Starvation, Se- 
cretion of Bile the Blood, the Urine; Conclusions. 



SUPERALIMENTATION 

Of the terms, overfeeding and overeating, the latter is the more apt 
to apply to an adult, as children are fed, while men and w^omen, who 
have come into the full possession of their mental faculties and reasoning 
powers, may, of their own volition, eat too much. Overfeeding from the 
medical standpoint will be discussed later. 

It is no easy matter to determine exactly what the word overeating 
implies. So many circumstances must be taken into consideration. But 
speaking broadly, it may be stated with little fear of contradiction that 

127 



128 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

the tendency of civilized people, especially of those who are prosperous, 
is to eat more than is good for their health, mentally or physically. Of 
course, primitive people, when they have the opportunity, almost invaria- 
bly surfeit themselves, but their powers of digestion and assimilation are 
usually equal to the occait,ion. Again, poor people, when temporary pros- 
perity admits of the indulgence of their appetite for food, are inclined to 
gorge themselves. 

Overfeeding. — However, acute overfeeding, as it may be termed, does 
not call for an extended consideration. It is true that, in the old days, 
it has been recorded more than once that individuals succumbed to the 
consumption of very large quantities of food. For instance, King Henry 
II of England is said to have died as the result of eating gluttonously of 
lampreys, fish of which he was immoderately fond. But he, together 
with other historical examples of the ill eifects of overeating, were chronic 
indulgers in the pleasures of the table, and merely hastened their end by 
eating an unduly large meal of indigestible food material. A death of 
this description is generally due to interference by a distended stomach 
with the action of an enfeebled heart. 

It may be reiterated that people rarely die of surfeit in these days, 
but that chronic overfeeding, or the habitual ingestion of an excessive 
amount of nutriment, is common. In addition, the question of over- 
eating must now be regarded in an altogether different sense from that 
in which it was formerly regarded. No longer does superalimentation 
mean the same as the word in the old sense signified. Our physiological 
standards of overeating have greatly changed. Former accepted standards 
have been cast aside, and an entirely revised and very much lowered 
physiological standard has been set up, by which it would appear that the 
population of the whole civilized world is addicted to ingesting more food 
than is in keeping with the strict tenets of good health, and is conse- 
quently laying up for itself divers kinds of pains and penalties affecting 
body and mind. 

While it is evident that the food faddist is actively preaching his 
gospel of extreme moderation in eating, throughout the length and breadth 
of every cultured land, and that, like all faddists, he is something of a 
fanatic, yet the truth remains that there is method in his madness, and 
that his deductions are based on a sound and scientific substratum of fact. 

There is no smoke without fire, and whenever an abuse exists on a wide 
scale prophets will arise to point the way we should go. Food faddists 
are prevalent and multiply for the very good reason that abuse of food, so 
far as quantity and properties are concerned, is widespread. There is 



SUPERALIMENTATION 129 

no doubt that among the prosperous members of a modern community, 
eating to excess is a frequent vice or fault, particularly among those 
who have been endowed with a large share of this world's goods. It will 
be tiresome to further enlarge on this phase of the subject, and without 
any more elaboration we will conclude that superalimentation is widely 
prevalent. More notice is now taken of the matter, because the popula- 
tion of the world has enormously increased, and therefore the food ques- 
tion is all important ; and also because a new physiological standard has 
been erected by scientific men who have delved into the matter, the out- 
come of whose findings is, on the whole, recognized as correct by the scien- 
tific medical profession. 

But before going into the question from the more scientific standpoint, 
it may be as well to discuss superalimentation from the general, rather 
than scientific, aspect. 

Overeating — Overeating is very liable to become a habit, and with 
indulgence the habit becomes a vice. A moderate excess of food is prob- 
ably not only harmless but even good for the health. For those who 
work hard in the open air, of course, a considerable amount of nourishing 
food is required ; for sedentary workers, a great deal less aliment is indi- 
cated, but, as a rule, it is wise to allow a certain amount of leeway, with 
regard to the quantity of food ingested. It is an extremely difficult mat- 
ter to lay down hard and fast rules about the amount of food material an 
individual should ingest. The personal equation must always be con- 
sidered. Regarding the matter from the wide outlook of the mass of the 
population, it can be said, with as much dogmatism as it is right to place 
on any statement, that the average fairly healthy person living in the ordi- 
nary civilized community, will take no harm and probably may benefit 
from ingesting more food than the amount that is laid down by scientific 
experts, as furnishing sufficient nourishment energy for the smooth and 
efficient working of the human machine. It may occur, and will occur, 
that an unexpected and severe strain may be put on this machine, and in 
order to cope successfully with or resist this extra pressure without injury, 
to its delicate mechanism, some reserve force is needed. A mental strain 
or physical strain may call for the existence of such a reserve, although 
naturally the chief reason will be that one is compelled to go without food 
for a protracted period. In this event, a reserve of food within the body 
will greatly assist in maintaining the vital forces and is indeed necessary 
to offset, to some extent, the drain caused by lack of food. It is obvious 
that such a reserve can only be insured by eating more food than the body 
actually requires to meet its necessities. It is by following this principle, 



130 OVEKFEEDIKG AND UNDERFEEDING 

by instinct, probably, that primitive men and animals embraced the oppor- 
tunity whenever it presented itself, of gorging themselves with food. 

Following a similar line of reasoning, the consumption of an especially 
large meal on Sunday by workmen can be explained and condoned from 
the physiological standpoint. By eating very heartily on at least one day 
of the week the workman is putting by a reserve supply from which to 
partially draw the energy needed throughout the week. 

A surplus of this kind can hardly be termed an excess, and it is with 
acute and chronic overeating that we are concerned. 

It has already been stated that although persons have been known to 
die of a surfeit, the occurrence in modern times, at any rate, is extremely 
infrequent. The harmful effects of too great a consumption of food at 
one time are local rather than general. The digestive organs, chiefly, 
suffer. Vomiting may result and may relieve the overtaxed stomach, or 
if the food reaches the intestine it will probably decompose before it is all 
absorbed, and diarrhea in this instance will act as a safety valve. 

If the process of assimilation does not keep pace with that of absorp- 
tion, some of the surplus products of digestion will pass out of the system 
by way of the blood stream, that is, with the assistance of the kidneys. 
This mode of rescue is one that is not often employed, although, that it is 
on occasions, is demonstrated by the fact that a great excess of protein in 
the food may give rise to transient albuminuria. On the other hand, if 
the consumption of carbohydrates has been extravagantly large, sugar may 
for a time appear in the urine. 

Chronic overeating is a different matter and its ill effects are brought 
about in a more insidious manner. As a result of excessive eating or 
gluttony, the stomach and bowels become enlarged, the liver engorged and 
a predisposition is established to degenerative changes of the heart and 
arteries. The general results of habitual overeating seem largely to depend 
upon the food material which forms the greater part of the nutriment 
ingested. For example, if carbohydrate or fat is the food of choice, then 
the surplus is stored up in the form of fat, and the outcome is obesity. 
Protein material can hardly be stored in this fashion, for as Hutchison 
has pointed out, so great is the tendency of "nitrogenous equilibrium" to 
assert itself that the body can only "lay on" protein for very short periods, 
unless the process of growth is still going on. The same authority is of 
the opinion that what usually appears to happen is that the surplus protein 
is split up into two portions, one of which contains most of the carbon and 
is probably converted into fat and stored in that form, while the nitrogen- 
containing part is broken down, but not, perhaps, very rapidly and com- 



SUPERALIMENTATION 131 

pletely, so that the products which represent the intermediate steps in its 
destruction circulate for some time in the blood before being excreted in 
the form of urea. Some of these products may be factors in the produc- 
tion of such conditions as granular degeneration of the kidneys, high 
arterial tension, gout and rheumatism. Many observers think that they 
are partly responsible for diseases of this character, but the more conserva- 
tive and the majority of those who have made a special study of the sub- 
ject prefer to reserve their decision and to await more definite proof 
before laying down the law on these points. In this connection, it is well 
to bear in mind that an excess of protein sparers in the blood may produce 
very similar results to an excess of protein itself by shielding the latter 
from complete and rapid oxidation. 

It may be taken as proved that gourmandizing or gluttony, whether 
done only on occasions or pursued as a habit, is by no means beneficial to 
the physical or mental attributes of the human organism. Chronic gour- 
mandizing is more injurious to health by far than the occasional stuffing 
one's self with food, as it is doubtful whether an occasional excess, unless 
carried to the extreme, is harmful. 

On the mental faculties eating to excess has a remarkably pernicious 
effect, but before dealing with some of the ills of the body and mind, in- 
duced, fostered and aggravated by overloading the stomach and intestine 
and overtaxing the digestive powers by greedy eating, gluttony from the 
historical standpoint will be briefly discussed. There have been some 
notorious gluttons, and there have been and are races of people who appear 
to have an abnormal capacity for eating, and there are civilized individuals 
at the present time who exhibit wonderful powers of consuming portentous 
quantities of food. 

There is a French proverb : "Ceux qui s'indigerent ou qui s'erviverent 
ne savent ni boire ni manger" (Those who eat to surfeit or tipple to satu- 
ration know not how to eat or drink). Such as these are gluttons in con- 
tradistinction to epicures or gourmets. The epicure is an artist in the 
choice of food and generally indulges somewhat sparingly in carefully 
selected food and rare viands, while the glutton is a gross consumer of 
coarse food and strong, crude drinks. The gourmet is a dainty eater, 
while the glutton is a boorish consumer of immense quantities of heavy 
food.^ The word gluttony, which expresses precisely the act of eating to 
excess, is derived from the Latin glutire, to glut, to swallow greedily, to 
gorge, to devour. As the French are the acknowledged arbiters of artistic, 
refined eating, they possess in their language several terms to denominate 

1 Anonymous author in "Dining and Its Amenities," published by Rebman Co. 



132 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

and distinguish between the various kinds of eaters: Some French writers 
make nice distinctions between the appellations gourmand and glutton. 
The gourmand, they say, loves good cheer, but eats with judgment. The 
glutton devours noisily and greedily all food upon which he can lay his 
hands. The older editions of the Academy's dictionary make no such dis- 
tinctions, and look upon the gourmand as synonymous with the glutton, 
and many French writers accept this definition. In the most correct 
French of the present time, the word gourmet is used in place of gourmand, 
meaning a careful eater, but a connoisseur of the art of dining. In the 
English language gluttony is practically identical with gourmandizing, 
greediness, edacity, gulosity and voracity. Gluttony, however, is the word 
most frequently in use to define the possession of an insatiable appetite 
for food. The boa constrictor may be regarded as the supreme type of 
the colossal glutton. Though perhaps not wholly in place in a work on 
diet, it may be remarked that gluttony is often employed metaphorically 
when reference is made to men who give themselves up to excessive mental 
effort. Thus a hard-working business or professional man is called a 
glutton for work ; the elder Pliny was termed by a contemporary a literary 
glutton on account of his custom of mentally devouring every kind of ac- 
cessible writing. The individual who indiscriminately devours writings 
of any kind, being able to assimilate only a small part of them, is as much 
of a literary glutton as the voracious devourer of any sort of food is a 
glutton in the ordinary sense of the word. 

The glutton living in a civilized country differs from his primitive 
brethren and his somewhat more distant relatives, the carnivora and 
omnivora, in that their appetite is instinctive and natural, while his is 
abnormal and not infrequently morbid. There are men who are large 
eaters without being gluttons. The human glutton is in a class by him- 
self and is marked by certain unpleasant but significant characteristics. 
He is essentially a gross eater to whom quantity is of more importance 
than quality and who persistently and with intent gorges himself to reple- 
tion. Of course, there are gluttons who should be named rather gour- 
mands, for, after all, there is a shade of difference between the terms; 
gourmands, while immense and voracious eaters, are nevertheless careful 
in choice of food and drink. Of all the gluttons whose names appear in 
history, that of the greedy Heliogabalus comes to mind as the archetype of 
gluttony. Alexander the Great, who was glutton in everything, died at an 
early age from the effects of a protracted debauch, and the Emperor Sep- 
timus Severus succumbed to acute indigestion brought on by overeating 
and vinous excess. 



r 



SUPEKALIMENTATION 133 

The glutton is limned to the life hy the inimitable art of Shakespeare 
in the person of Sir John Falstatt' ; in many of the immortal bard's plays 
vivid and lifelike verbal pictures of the glutton are presented. In the time 
of Shakespeare, be it remembered, gross eating and heavy drinking were 
customary, and in polite society the glutton was not looked at askance. 
To be a good trencher man was esteemed a virtue rather than a vice. To 
hark further back than the time of Shakespeare to that of another of the 
greatest poets of the world, Homer, we find that to eat gluttonously and 
to drink unstintedly was regarded as an almost necessary attribute of a 
good fighting man. As it was heroic to kill one's enemies, so it was the 
part of the militant hero to consume unlimited quantities of food and 
drink. As an historical, possibly legendary, example of capacity for food, 
it is related in the verses of the poet Berchoux, who told in charming 
rhymes of the pleasures of the table and of the doughty deeds of his gas- 
tronomic heroes, that during one morning Albinus consumed five hundred 
figs, one hundred peaches, ten melons, twenty pounds of muscat grapes, 
one hundred fig pickers and four hundred and eight oysters. Truly there 
were gastronomic giants in those days. 

The Tartars have always been conspicuous as great meat eaters and 
heavy drinkers, and, if their powers in this direction have not been belied, 
Genghis Khan, Tamerlane and others of the earlier Tartar warriors well 
upheld the traditions of their race as carnivorous gluttons. Of European 
people the Norsemen and the Saxons ate and drank inordinately, while 
the IsTormans were more fastidious in their choice of food. 

Louis XIV of France was a voracious eater. It is told by chroniclers 
of his time that he frequently ate at one sitting four plates of different 
soups, a whole pheasant, a partridge, a copious serving of salad, some 
roast mutton, two good sized slices of ham, a fair share of pastry, and for 
dessert preserved fruits, nuts, etc. A very favorite dish of his was hard 
boiled eggs.^ 

Charles Y was as big a glutton as he was an epicure. At a dinner of 



1 Of old the palate ran riot. The Romans were both epicures and gluttons. The 
oysters of Britain were conveyed by relays of runners to the Roman villas. One epicure 
cast a slave into his fishpond to improve the flavor of his lampreys. The most absurd 
dishes were contrived, up to a pie of nightingales' tongues. Their tastes were not 
ours. Fowls were boiled in aniseed water, and served with a sauce containing aniseed, 
mint, mustard seeds and asafetida. Nor were the middle ages far different. Charles 
IV, of Germany, was a notorious gourmand. Besides ordinary meats he had roasted 
horse, cats in jelly, lizard soup, fried frogs, etc., till his chef, when asked for a new 
dish, could only suggest a compote of watches — in allusion to that monarch's passion 
for such timekeepers. 

109 



134 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

the Knights of the Golden Fleece, Roger Ascham saw him make his way 
through sod beef, roast mutton and baked hare, after which he fed full 
well on a capon. Nor did he forget to drink with it all. "He had his 
head in the glass five times as long as any of them, and drank no less at 
once than a quart of Rhine wine." It is further narrated that he became 
a victim, of gout. 

In more modern times the Due d'Escars died within twelve hours after 
eating too freely of the famous dish of truffles a la puree d'ortolans, de- 
vised by Louis XVllI. 

Overeating generally is more prevalent in modern times and among 
civilized communities than in the days of yore, for the reason that there 
are more persons who can afford to indulge their propensities in this direc- 
tion. Per contra, there are fewer people who eat and drink to an im- 
moderate extent. While the ancient vice of gluttony has been handed 
down from generation to generation, there are few, if any, instances of 
unbridled voracity which can be compared with those told in the annals 
of great gastronomic feats. Still the race of gluttons is by no means 
extinct, and it will be pertinent to cite a case or two of gluttony carried 
to extreme limits, by modern emulators of the gourmandizing exploits of 
men of ancient times and of the middle ages. Savarin in his fourth 
"Meditation," section "Grands Appetits," states that a General Bisson 
drank eight bottles of wine with his copious breakfast, and that Prosper 
Sibuet, when eighteen years of age, on a wager, devoured a whole turkey 
after having eaten a bountiful dinner. 

Sergeant M. A. Hunter, Quartermasters' Corps, TT. S. A., related to 
the author that he witnessed an exhibition of abnormal capacity for ingest- 
ing food when he was stationed at Fort Apache just before the outbreak 
of the Spanish-American War. A detachment of raw recruits were sent to 
Fort Apache, and among those were several Poles and Russians, who were 
enormous meat eaters. The Sergeant says that the quantity of meat these 
men could consume quickly attracted the attention of the Mess Sergeant 
of the company, and a gourmandizing trial of strength was arranged be- 
tween the champions of each race. After a lengthy encounter the Rus- 
sian gained the victory, having swallowed 23l/> pounds of roast rare beef. 

Reference was made in a former part of this chapter to the eating 
powers displayed by certain races, and in the opening chapter of the first 
volume, dealing with the evolution of man's diet, some examples were 
given of these powers. Of races which inhabit the world at the present 
time, the Eskimo stands supreme as a devourer of meat. Cook stated that 
they eat but one meal a day and then gorge themselves with tough meat 



r 



SUPEliALlMENTATION 135 

so that they develop big jaws and enormously distended abdomens. Hayes, 
on an exploring expedition, had an opportunity to study the habits of these 
people, and says that it is not uncommon for an Eskimo to eat from 12 to 
15 pounds of food, about one-third of which is fat and the rest muscle 
meat. Captain Hall, when on his Arctic expedition, declares that he saw 
a native Eskimo eat 20 pounds of raw meat and consume a quart of train 
oil within 24 hours. 

Many primitive people of the present day both in tropical and cold 
climates eat immensely, but as said before, while eating too much has 
increased generally in civilized countries, cases of inordinate eating are 
more rare. Gluttony in civilized people is regarded not only as a sin 
against the laws of health, but as a repulsive means of gratifying the 
sensual appetites, fraught with the most grave consequences. It is 
frowned upon and stigmatized in polite society, and he who sins in this 
respect is looked upon with, contempt. 

Effects of Overeating. — The effects of overeating on the mind and 
body are more or less obvious. Overeating causes congestion of the liver, 
and a condition known as "biliousness/' in which the stomach and intes- 
tines are engorged. Constipation ensues, the tongue becomes heavily 
coated, the bodily secretions are altered in composition, and the urine 
especially becomes overloaded with salts. It is evident that we are not 
nourished by the food we eat, but by the amount we can properly use and 
assimilate. Probably, an excess beyond this amount is beneficial because 
it supplies a reserve upon which the body can depend for nourishment in 
time of need. However, it is absolutely patent that chronic overeating 
so clogs the machinery of the body that the organs of elimination and 
excretion are unable to work as they should, intestinal stasis follows, the 
surplus food material putrefies before it is absorbed in the intestine, the 
urinary tract becomes infected, the circulation becomes involved in the 
toxic invasion, and the whole system is poisoned. 

This condition of intestinal toxemia brings in its train many mental 
and physical disabilities. The nervous and muscular systems become 
saturated with the end products of protein digestion, producing a state 
of lassitude, headache, fatigue, drowsiness and even mental stupor. 

The effect of chronic overeating on the mental poicers is very evi- 
dent. Indeed, it may be laid down as an axiom that a person who habit- 
ually overeats is incapable of good or sustained mental work. The cross, 
irritable dyspeptic is too greatly occupied in worrying about his own ills 
to be able to employ his mental faculties in other and more useful chan- 
nels. The brain worker or business man, who eats largely, especially in 



136 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

tlie middle of the day, cannot use his mental powers properly. His mind 
loses its acuity and as for flights of imagination, if he is a literary man, 
these are impossible. Overeating is an insurmountable obstacle in the 
way of mental endeavor. The handicap placed upon the entire system as 
the result of overeating is too great to be overcome, and the mind refuses 
to respond to the stimulus of thought. 

HABITUAL OVEREATING.— The effects of overeating on the body have 
been discussed already, and little remains to be added. It is known that 
habitual eating to excess will in course of time bring about alimentary 
toxemia, and it is more than surmised that this poisoning of the system 
by the waste food products is mainly and sometimes wholly responsible 
for many serious diseases, the maladies, for instance, so frequent in these 
days, known as chronic. However, until our knowledge on these points 
is more exact and definite, it would be unwise to speak very dogmatically, 
that is to say, it would be unwise to say with decision that such and such 
a disease, gout or rheumatism, for instance, is caused chiefly by overeat- 
ing or errors of diet. This we do know and can state emphatically, that 
in the treatment of conditions of this nature, diet plays a very important, 
if not the most important, role. 

There is another point in connection with habitual overeating which 
should not be overlooked, and that is its effect on the internal secretions 
concerned in the digestive process. We do not know enough of the mode 
of action of the secretory glands to state exactly and in detail what their 
province is, but we have learned that they have very much to do with the 
working of the human organism and that when they secrete deficiently 
ill health follows. Overeating no doubt unduly taxes the internal secre- 
tions, and this persistent strain results in their failure or partial failure 
to perform their normal functions. It is satisfactory to be able to state 
that knowledge about the internal secretions is increasing and that the 
time is approaching when the mystery that envelops them will be cleared 
away. 

Children are often habitually overfed and the old frequently suffer 
from the effects of chronic overeating. There is little doubt that many 
of the ailments with which babies and young children are afflicted pro- 
ceed from overfeeding. With most mothers the criterion of an infant's 
health is the amount of adipose deposit it carries. The fatter it is the 
prouder its parents are of it. The truth is that, as a rule, the fat baby 
is not the healthy baby. 

The healthy baby can digest and assimilate easily and continuously 
ah amount of food sufficient to produce normal growth. An excess of food 



SUPERALIMENTATION 137 

will not cause a corresponding excess in the rate of growth. A deficiency 
or excess of food continued for a length of time may check growth. The 
rickety child is frequently extremely fat, and it is certain that harm will 
result from giving the infant too much to eat. 

With regard to overeating in the case of the aged, it goes without say- 
ing that the habit is to be deprecated. When middle age comes digestion 
often begins to lose its former vigor, and metabolism shows signs of flag- 
ging. With the gradual onset of old age digestive and metabolic activity 
further wanes. Consequently with the advance of age chronic overeating 
should be guarded against and simple foods should be taken, sparingly. 
At the age of sixty an individual must reduce his intake, and at seventy 
his power has further diminished and the nutriment must correspond 
thereto, if he desires still another term of comfortable life. 

Sir Henry Thompson ( 1 ) says : "I desire to point out that the system 
of 'supporting' aged persons, as it is termed, with increased quantities of 
food and stimulant, is an error of cardinal importance, and without 
doubt tends to shorten or embitter life." Overfeeding of young children 
and overeating in the case of aged persons are grave dietetic errors. 

In early life, as Campbell has pointed out, most people can cope with 
a dietary which departs widely from the ideal ; they are able to consume 
with comparative impunity not only far more food than is required, but 
also all sorts of foods which in later years cannot be tolerated. "Com- 
parative impunity" is said with intention because chronic dietetic delin- 
quencies, even in early life, cannot but be harmful in the long run, 
although an occasional lapse from a severely correct diet may in the case 
of the habitually abstemious, be actually beneficial, and this even after 
middle life. 

The point which should be emphasized with regard to overeating is 
that chronic eating to excess is extremely injurious to health, while an 
occasional indulgence in this direction may do good rather than harm. 
Another point upon which stress should be laid, is that idiosyncrasy and 
custom count for a good deal in the capacity of the organism to cope with 
different kinds and quantities of food. The personal equation is always 
an important factor. Individuals vary greatly in their digestive and 
metabolic capacities. For example, some children are made ill by even 
a slight excess of food, while their grandparents, perhaps, can consume 
a large excess with comparative impunity. Adults in the prime of life 
differ widely in their digestive and metabolic capacities. One man can 
ingest without apparent injury an amount of food which another man 
leading exactly the same kind of life cannot tolerate. But often the pos- 



138 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

session of great digestive and metabolic capacities is of doubtful value, 
as these are apt to be abused and the individual with what is termed a 
weak stomach frequently outlasts the person of strong, vigorous frame 
and sanguine temperament, largely owing to the fact that he has to be 
careful. The creaking gate frequently hangs the longest. Also the ques- 
tion of heredity plays a far greater part than many people imagine. 
Longevity is to a considerable extent a matter of inheritance. 

There is another interesting point in connection with overeating that 
is deserving of passing mention. The capacity to cope with an excess of 
food differs in different races irrespective of climate or conditions of life. 
Custom exerts some influence. Thus the Jews seem to be conspicuous in 
this respect. They lead, as a rule, a sedentary life, and yet can habit- 
ually eat an excess of rich food without apparent injury to health, pos- 
sibly for the reason that because far longer than any other race, on account 
of their prosperity, they have been able to obtain plenty of food, and have 
thus become racially adapted to it. 

The question of overfeeding in contradistinction to overeating will 
now be considered. 

Metabolism of Overfeeding — Overfeeding, speaking from the standpoint 
of the medical man, signifies that the object to be attempted is the build- 
ing up of fresh tissue in a person previously badly nourished or who has 
lost tissue as the result of disease. Von Noorden's definition of the term 
"overfeeding" is the administration of food in such a quantity as to pro- 
vide more energy than the needs of the body require. According to the 
same authority, it is a matter of indifference whether the excess takes the 
form of albumin or of some oxidizable substance free from nitrogen. 

EXCESS OF PROTEINS AND CARBOHYDRATES.— If fat is ingested in 
excessive amounts the greater part of the energy thus created passes into 
tissue substance. Carbohydrates consumed to an excessive extent do not 
afford nutriment to the tissues in the same way. Zuntz(2) has estimated 
that considerably less energy is generated for digestive purposes by carbo- 
hydrate consumption and that with coarse kinds of bread the energy loss 
is much less. In addition, it has been shown by Rubner and Zuntz that 
carbohydrate is not changed into fat with absolutely no loss of heat. 

When nitrogenous substances compose the excess the results are dif- 
ferent from those of fat on carbohydrate excess. Several investigators 
seem to have demonstrated that in these circumstances the processes of 
oxidation are augmented. Rubner(3) fed animals with a rich meat diet 
and obtained values appearing to show that a daily transformation of 
energy exceeding those in accord with the food necessary for main- 



SUrEHALlMEKTATIOK 139 

tenance by 30 or 40 per cent or more was necessary. However, when 
man is considered, no large amounts need to be taken into account. 
From the fact that he is omnivorous, it is' known that only a compara- 
tively small proportion of the food ingested can be replaced from pro- 
tein. Rubner was able to distinguish two effects as the result of feeding 
on protein substances: 

1. The primary effect of a meal rich in protein is an increase in the 
oxidation processes, which passes oft' in about eight to ten hours. 

2. In certain circumstances, however, the continued use of a diet 
rich in protein leads to a long continued increase in the consumption of 
energy, which lasts as long as the excess of protein remains high. This 
increase in the waste of energy rises more quickly in accordance with the 
addition of protein. 

From the standpoint of the most recent investigations, von !N^oorden(4) 
thinks that, in estimating the elements of the food by which an excess 
of calories is produced beyond the needs which form the basis of a diet 
to increase body weight, protein is the least suitable since along with a 
low caloric value the necessary oxidation processes must be considerably 
increased for its combustion. Consequently, very little of the surplus 
calories, which result from the excess of protein, are left at the disposal 
of the system. Howell(5) points out that if protein is eaten in excess 
of the real assimilation needs of the tissues, all the excess, as far as we 
can see, might just as well be substituted by carbohydrate or by carbo- 
hydrate and fat. The excess nitrogen thus eaten appears to be so much 
useless ballast which the body very promptly gets rid of. 

Better results are obtained from carbohydrates, although in their case 
at least one-fourth of the store of energy contained in an excess of them 
is lost on the way from the stomach to its final storage as fat in the fat 
depots. Von Noorden is of the opinion that the conditions are most favor- 
able in the case of fat, as very little expenditure of energy is required 
on the part of the digestive organs, and the fat is stored as such without 
any loss of energy. Rosenfeld(6) thinks that there is reason to believe 
that in animals like ourselves the carbohydrates are more easily and more 
quickly destroyed in the body than the fats, and that, therefore, the latter 
may be more readily deposited in the tissues, although an excess of car- 
bohydrate beyond the actual needs of the body will also be preserved in 
the form of fat or glycogen. The modern point of view is that body fat 
is formed in the first instance from food fat and food carbohydrates. It 
is customary to teach and put into practice the theory that carbohydrates 
or fat and carbohydrates are best adapted for feeding purposes and. 



140 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

despite the opinions of von Noorden, full use is seldom made of fat. 
However, that authority claims that, when certain pathological conditions 
of the stomach and intestines can be excluded, large and even enormous 
quantities of fat are well tolerated, with results that cannot be exceeded 
by an abundant exhibition of carbohydrates. This remark may be inter- 
polated here that while emphasis has been laid upon the importance of 
overfeeding, that is, of providing what Meltzer has termed a "factor of 
safety," a certain margin beyond a bare sufficiency which will be a re- 
serve against unusual demands, the question may be asked — what consti- 
tutes the assimila,tion need of the tissues ? This must be known with more 
or less accuracy before the amount of the reserve required can be stated. 
If a man is accustomed to eat 100 grams of protein daily, and science 
demonstrates that he can maintain a nitrogen equilibrium on 30 grams, 
does a reasonable factor of safety require the use of the additional 70 
grams, or would a less total per day, perhaps, meet every requirement? 
This is a point which should be elucidated by experiment and observation. 
Von Noorden is of the opinion that the increase in the exchange of 
calories following the fattening of the body tissue depends on the follow- 
ing two factors. 

1. The increase in the amount of protoplasm disintegrated, forms the 
most characteristic feature. When large quantities of fat are put on, the 
body accumulates material which adds to its weight but hardly con- 
tributes at all to the energy exchange. As a result, the balance of energy 
based upon the body weight falls, as a riile, in individuals who are being 
overfed. An addition of flesh, that is, an increase in protoplasm, aug- 
ments the transformation of energy as shown by experiments made by 
Pfluger and Rubner. Zuntz(7) demonstrated that by systematic muscular 
exertion, continued for a considerable period, many of those experimented 
upon became thinner but gained a good deal of nitrogenous material. 
When the period of exertion was over the exchange of calories was higher, 
the casual factor being an increase in the protoplasm. 

2. The increase in the actual size of the body, independent of the 
formation of protoplasm, necessitates an increase in the consumption of 
energy, which means that individuals of heavy weight require a greater 
expenditure of energy in order to move and raise their limbs and so on. 
It is not infrequently impossible to set up definite quantitative relation- 
ships between the addition of protoplasm and the increase in the trans- 
formation of energy. 

In the present state of our knowledge, it will not be wise to go further 
than the following statements: (a) Every increase in the amount of pro- 



I 



SUPERALIMENTATION" .141 

toplasm increases the energy exchange, (b) An increase in weight, due 
to increased intake of fat, also increases the energy exchange, (c) With 
the ingestion of further quantities of protein, the energy exchange often 
rises independently of the increase in protoplasm, probably as the result 
of a peculiar irritative action of the food proteins on the active cells, the 
exact nature of which is unknown. Kraus(8) points out with regard 
to the conditions which obtain in convalescents that it has long been 
known that convalescents, like those who have been subjected for a long 
period of time to insufficient food, can be made to increase in weight more 
readily than well-nourished persons. It has been observed that an addi- 
tion of protein can occur in wasted and enfeebled patients on a diet which 
in normally nourished individuals would be insufficient to permit a nitroge- 
nous equilibrium to be attained. It was further observed that especially 
during convalescence from severe diseases considerable amounts of protein 
derived from the food were daily retained in the organism, and employed 
in rebuilding the damaged tissues. 

CONVALESCENTS 

Svenson(9) studied the conditions of convalescents during recovery 
from typhoid fever and pneumonia, the only ones as yet studied. In the 
first days after the fever had disappeared, the values for oxygen utilized 
and the carbonic acid given off were found very low. After a few days, 
however, the exchange of energy rose, and in the following first to second 
weeks reached values which exceeded the normal by about 30 to 50 per 
cent. If, despite the much more active processes of combustion, the 
convalescent increases in weight and puts on a good deal of flesh, this is 
due to the fact that the taking up of nutriment is still more decidedly 
raised than the energy exchange. According to Svenson, a food intake 
equal to 60 or 70 calories per day and per kilogram is not unusual in 
the convalescent. During the period of the marked putting on of pro- 
tein and fat, the respiratory quotient rises considerably. This is exactly 
the reverse of what is met with in starvation when the respiratory quo- 
tient sinks abnormally. Von Noorden is inclined to doubt Svenson's 
figures and thinks that fresh experiments in this direction are called for. 

An important point is that flesh formation occurs in every case in 
which the body has suffered from a loss consequent to starvation, under- 
feeding, or disease, and again returns to a more satisfactory state of 
nutrition. It should also be noted that the recuperative powers of the 
organism with regard to nitrogen retention come into evidence when the 
need for calories is not thoroughly satisfied. In this event, the tissues 



142 



OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 



have the preference when overfeeding is practiced. It is evident that 
the conditions for flesh accumulation are most favorable when an excess 
of food is combined with the efforts at regeneration on the part of the 
organism. Excess of food can be used to the best advantage only when 
the vital forces of the subject are recuperating. As said before, the sole 
exact experiments which have been made hitherto on this aspect of metab- 
olism have been made on convalescents from typhoid fever and pneu- 
monia. 

The following figures, taken from von Norden, when compared with 
those obtained by feeding healthy individuals, show how markedly the 
activity of the accumulation of nitrogen is increased in convalescents: * 



TABLE EMPHASIZING THE INCREASED NITROGEN IN CONVA- 
LESCENTS, DUE TO OVERFEEDING 



Days of 
Conva- 
lescence 


Nitrogen 

in Food, 

Gms. 


Calories 
in Food 


Calories 
per Kg. 


Daily accu- 
mulation of 
Nitrogen, 
Gms. 


Weight, 
Kg. 


Observers 


15-27 


18.69 


3,188 


55 




56.5-69.4 




28-36 


20.54 


3,238 


54 


+6.54 


59.4-61.4 


Benedict and Sursr 
nyi (typhoid) 


37^7 


18.63 


3,324 


55 


+7.69 


61.4-64.3 




3-13 


21.3 


3,216 

(average) 


about 56 


+7.56 
+5.92 


about 56 


Ibid, (typhoid) 








14-17 


21.92 


4,327 


73 


+7.33 


57.5-58.5 




18-25 


17.04 


4,215 


71 


+5.00 


58.5-59.8 




26-34 


28.29 


4,589 


74 


+9.82 


59.8-63.7 




35-42 


27.17 


3,598 


56 


+5.56 


63.7-65.2 




43-62 


27.24 


2,912 


44 


+4.86 


65.2-68.1 




3-13 


18.20 


2,775 


50 


+3.62 


55.0-56.0 


von Noorden, 1893, 
unpublished ob- 
servation (ty- 
phoid) 


14-23 


18.20 


2,775 


48 


+4.05 


56.0-59.4 




24-33 


18.20 


2,775 


46 


+5.87 


59.4-61.0 




4-10 


19.10 


2,180 


42 


+3.82 


52.0-52.8 




11-18 


19.10 


2.380 


45 


+4.93 


52.8-54.1 




19-23 


20.20 


2,600 


48 


+3.14 


54.1-56.0 


von Noorden, 1893, 
unpublished ob- 
servation (after 
severe sepsis) 



It may then be stated that the results of experiments carried out per- 
mit the conclusions that the nitrogen gain is absolutely, as well as rela- 
tively to the simultaneous putting on of fat, greatest in those convalescing 
from severe acute diseases. It is less, but still considerable, in patients 



SUPERALIMENTATION 



143 



who were in a condition of inanition before the feeding was commenced, 
and whose body weight had fallen greatly below the average. Of course 
it follows that the smallest nitrogen gain is seen in individuals who were 
well nourished before the experiment began. 

The following table, taken from von ISToorden, refers to the manner 
in which the accumulation obtained through feeding is divided between 
nitrogenous material and fat: 



TABLE SHOWING APPROXIMATE VALUES OP THE INTERCHANGE 

OF NITROGEN AND STORAGE, PROTEIN AND FAT, ABSOLUTE 

AND PERCENTAGE IN OVERFEEDING 









Of the Calories in Excess 






Food 
Nitro- 


Excess 


THERE WERE USED IN THE BoDY 






For Storage 


For Storage 




Observers 


gen 
Grams 


of Cal. 


as Protein 


as Fat 






Absolute 


Per cent 


Absolute 


Percent 










Grams 


Grams 


Grams 


Grams 




Krug 


15.4 


1,537 


115 


7.46 


1,422 


92.54 


Healthy and well 
. nourished 


Kaufmann and 


21.5 


1,906 


111 


5.80 


1,795 


94.2 


Healthy ;moderate 


Mohr 


18.4 


2,775 


170 


6.10 


2,605 


93.9 


state of nutrition 


Kaufmann and 


17.8 


1,683 


133 


8.00 


1,550 


92.0 


As before 


Mohr 


17.0 


2,830 


204 


7.20 


2,626 


92.8 






30.8 


367 


20 


5.40 


347 


94.6 






30.9 


355 


86 


24.20 


269 


75.8 




Liithje 


41.7 


1,505 


197 


13.10 


1,308 


86.9 


Healthy 




42.6 


1,472 


228 


15.50 


1.244 


84.5 






61.0 


2,524 


482 


19.10 


2,042 


80.9 




Benedict and 


18.7 


790 


227 


28.70 


563 


71.3 


Convalescent from 


Sm-anyi .... 


20.5 


733 


268 


36.60 


465 


63.4 


tjrphoid 




18.6 


738 


263 


35.60 


475 


64.4 






24.3 


830 


206 


24.80 


624 


75.2 






21.9 


1,723 


255 


14.80 


1,468 


85.2 






17.6 


1,594 


174 


10.90 


1,420 


89.1 




Benedict and 


28.3 


1,868 


342 


18^0 


1,526 


81.7 


Convalescent from 


Suranyi .... 


27.2 


893 


193 


21.80 


700 


78.2 


typhoid 




27.2 


258 


169 


65.50 


89 


34.5 






18.2 


489 


126 


25.90 


363 


74.1 




von Noorden. . 


18.2 


387 


210 


54.30 


177 


45.7 


Convalescent from 




18.2 


316 


204 


64.50 


112 


35.5 


typhoid 




16.8 


342 


70 


20.50 


270 


79.5 






17.2 


468 


49 


10.50 


419 


89.5 




von Noorden. . 


17.3 


662 


80 


12.10 


580 


87.9 


Stomach affection 




19.9 


720 


136 


19.00 


584 


81.0 


badly nourished 




18.0 


558 


143 


25.60 


415 


74.4 






18.1 


707 


118 


16.70 


589 


83.3 






19.1 


1,795 


57 


3.20 


1,738 


9.68 




Hrrschfield . . . 


23.0 


2,273 


54 


2.40 


2,219 


97.6 


Badly nourished 




19.2 


2,197 


115 


5.20 


2,082 


94.8 





144 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

The argument has been brought against these overfeeding cures that 
the increase of weight obtained soon disappears. Probably, this depends 
to some extent on the manner in which the treatment is conducted. The 
originator of this therapeutic method was Weir Mitchell, who always 
prescribed isolation, complete bodily rest, and aliment mainly of a car- 
bohydrate character. However, it is not essential to follow Mitchell's 
trophotherapy to the letter, and in many instances, exercise in the open 
air, massage and so on are indicated. The main object is to admin- 
ister a large amount of highly nutritious food in a relatively small 
volume and whether absolute rest is to be a part of the treatment, or 
exercise, must be left to the discretion of the physician. Personally we 
shall advocate exercise in conjunction with the dietetic regime. How long 
the gain in weight in consequence of overfeeding can be maintained must 
be taught by therapeutical experience rather than by exact experiments. 
It has been pointed out that in the overfeeding treatment of wasted, 
ill-nourished persons, during the first weeks the body weight rises at a 
great rate, and this rise cannot be wholly explained by the accumulation 
of flesh and fat. The explanation probably is the large amount of water 
taken up by the blood and tissues. It is the accumulation of water in this 
manner that accounts for the rapid increase of weight during the first 
weeks. When diuresis increases the gain in weight slackens or stops, 
although flesh and fat are still being put on at much the same rate. 

The numerous investigations which have been carried on within recent 
years with regard to the effects of overfeeding have, from the experi- 
mental standpoint, been somewhat confusing. While all the investigators 
appear to concur in the view that overfeeding is generally indicated in 
cases of malnutrition resulting from lack of food or from certain patho- 
logical conditions, the explanations as to what form of feeding should be 
followed or why, that is, from the strictly scientific point of view, are 
not altogether satisfactory. It must be borne in mind that up to the 
present time exact experiments on this aspect of metabolism have been 
made almost exclusively on convalescents from typhoid fever and pneu- 
monia, and even these have been subjected to criticism. The explana- 
tions, other than those gained from exact experiments and from clinical 
experience, are after all no more than scientific surmises, although, of 
course, they are founded upon physiological and pathological facts and 
reenforced by profound knowledge as in the case of von Noorden. 

Moreover, the point raised by Howell is well taken: that, when a 
reserve supply of food provided by overfeeding is spoken of, it will be 
necessary to find out as nearly as may be what constitutes the assimilation 



UNDEEFEEDIJ^G 145 

need of the tissues. From the point of view, then, of experiments with 
regard to the metabolism of overfeeding, the question whether a genuine 
putting-on of flesh may be obtained from this method still remains 
unsolved. 

From all the experiments made in this direction, the most important 
point which has been made clear is the great selective power which the 
body possesses in regard to foodstuffs given in excess. It must be empha- 
sized that it is only by practical experience and not by experiments, 
except those which are generally conducted on animals, that we can learn 
if body weight can be increased when this is necessary, if it is to the 
benefit of the patient to use overfeeding and if so by what form of food 
this end may be best accomplished. 

When we turn to the clinical evidence on this point, the results are 
more encouraging. Overfeeding in tuberculosis has been referred to in 
Volume III, Chapter V, and the treatment is likewise employed in cer- 
tain forms of anemia and chlorosis, neurasthenia, hysteria, visceroptosis, 
malnutrition generally and especially in convalescence from various 
diseases, those of a febrile and infective nature in particular. 

Weir Mitchell's mode of treatment and diet have been described in 
Volume II, Chapter XVI, and it only remains to say that, while the rest, 
treatment and judicious stuffing with food are suitable for and have bene- 
fited many, yet whether this kind of treatment should be followed or 
whether a combination of overfeeding and exercise should be used must 
be left to the discretion of the physician. We are distinctly inclined to 
advocate, as a rule, exercise and overfeeding. Much the same may be 
said with regard to the kind of food. Although carbohydrate food is 
recommended by perhaps the majority, fat and carbohydrate by many, 
and fat by von JSToorden and others, there may be cases in which an excess 
of protein food in the shape of meat may be of the greatest benefit. Xo 
one dietetic procedure should be slavishly followed, but the physician 
should use his own judgment. On the whole, overfeeding by carbohy- 
drates or fat and carbohydrates seems to have had the best results. 

UNDERFEEDING 

Underfeeding is by no means uncommon in civilized communities 
and in urban and in industrial centers in particular. The cause is gen- 
erally poverty, as in all modern countries there is always a large propor- 
tion of the inhabitants who, while not actually starving, exist in a 
constant condition of semi-starvation. These people not only lack suffi- 



146 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

cient food to satisfy their appetites, but they do not ingest enough 
nutriment to keep their bodies in good health. Also, and this is an 
important point, their diet is ill balanced and usually composed of 
innutritions food products. If the money they spend on food were 
expended judiciously, that is, scientifically, they would not be underfed. 
But in the first place it must be remembered that the poor are compelled 
to buy in the dearest market; they obtain the least value for the money 
they spend, and they are ignorant how to lay out to the best advantage 
the little they possess. This is especially the case wnth the city poor of 
the English speaking race. Probably no indigent people in the world 
buy food at such high rates and in such a foolish way as those who live 
in the big industrial cities of Great Britain. In the cities of America, 
too, a large proportion of the inhabitants exist on an ill-balanced diet. 
Perhaps here it is not so much a question of poverty as carelessness and 
laziness. The woman of the household prefers to buy her food ready 
cooked in delicatessen stores than to cook it at home. The consequence is 
that very large numbers drag out a bare existence continually, on the 
borderland of starvation. The Latin races, as a rule, live on cheap food 
which is, at the same time, nutritious. The Italian, for instance, subsists 
and does hard manual labor on food like macaroni ; the majority of the 
inhabitants of Japan work hard and are muscular and vigorous on a diet 
consisting mainly of rice, and the list of these peoples who live, thrive 
and work hard on an inexpensive and nutritious diet, might be greatly 
amplified. However, the object aimed at is to demonstrate that 
underfeeding is widely prevalent in civilized lands rather than to explain 
the causes. It may be remarked, too, that children and women are the 
ones who suffer the most. The man has to have the greater and best part 
of the food supply, because he is the wage earner, and if he were not fed, 
however inadequate and ill chosen his food might be, he would not be 
able to work at all. 

Accordingly, it may be taken for granted that, in civilized countries 
the world over, a goodly portion of the inhabitants are underfed; that 
this state of malnutrition is of various degrees of severity ; that it is most 
prevalent in industrial countries, and that women and children suifer 
the most. 

Underfeeding may also occur when the diet is normal, but the amount 
of work done is excessive. 

Chronic or Habitual Underfeeding — Chronic or habitual underfeeding 
is more injurious to the health than eating to excess. Attention has 
already been drawn to the fact that underfeeding is quite as much due to 



UNDERFEEDING 147 

the lack or deficiency in amount of one important constituent, as to 
lack of quantity. It is natural for a hungry person who has little to 
spend to prefer a bulky food possessing hardly any nutritive properties to 
a more concentrated and highly nutritious product. An individual also 
is largely governed by custom and taste. If she, for the woman is usually 
the buyer, likes tea and bread and butter and a bony herring, a form of 
diet to which she and her children have become addicted by long custom, 
these are articles in which she will invest her few cents. Therefore, it 
is the absolute truth that malnutrition is caused quite as often by an ill- 
balanced diet as by lack of quantity. 

It is almost unbelievable how long a person can live without food, 
provided that water is obtainable. Professional fasters have frequently 
existed for 40 days and even longer with no sustenance except some water, 
and lunatics have been known to refuse food for four or five weeks at 
a stretch, all of which seems to show that starvation may be borne with 
a considerable degree of impunity. In this connection, although not 
exactly bearing on the subject under discussion, it is interesting to know 
that the sensations of starving persons are not particularly unpleasant. 
In the popular mind prolonged starvation is associated with great pain 
and distress, in spite of the denials of those who have undertaken starva- 
tion voluntarily. Such persons, almost without exception, have stated 
that, after the first three or four days of starvation, the sensation of 
hunger is no longer felt, or, at any rate, is not excessively painful or 
uncomfortable. It has been demonstrated by experiment, that it is only 
when the weight of the body has fallen to one-half or one-third of its 
original weight that death from inanition ensues. When dealing with 
cases of acute disease, when nourishment cannot be administered by the 
mouth, it is well to remember these facts. According to Hutchison (10), 
physicians not infrequently may be inclined to flatter themselves that they 
have kept a patient alive by rectal feeding, when as a matter of fact the 
patient has been subsisting on the reserve supply which has been stored 
up for an emergency of this character. He has, indeed, been living on 
himself or from his own tissues. One need not be unduly alarmed if a 
well-nourished patient is unable to take any food at all for a few days. 
The "factor of safety," his reserve supply, discussed on the previous 
pages on overfeeding, will in a large number of cases be able to tide him 
over the time of stress without any special injury to his health. An ill- 
balanced diet is one of the main causes of chronic malnutrition. Nitrogen 
being the element of which the body is mainly built up, it would seem 
that a lack of protein in the food would be more injurious than a defi- 



148 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

cient supply of carbohydrate or fat. The question of the protein intake 
has been considered in Volume II, Chapter V. 

Suffice it then to say, with regard to too small a supply of protein in 
a diet otherwise sufficient, that, according to Rechenberg(ll) and von 
Noorden, it is certain that in cases where the diet is full a moderate 
diminution in the protein acts less harmfully than a free supply of pro- 
tein with a caloric deficit in the dietary. In the latter case, the body 
goes on losing fat continuously and finally also protein ; in the former the 
loss in protein does not go beyond a certain limit. The protein in 
requirements may be reduced to a comparatively marked extent without 
harm ; the caloric value of the diet, on the other hand, cannot be lowered, 
or only very slightly. Von Noorden goes on to say that it is by no means 
permissible to explain any lowering of nutrition or of muscular strength, 
such as may occur in certain classes or among people living under 
unfavorable social conditions, as exclusively brought about by the small- 
ness of the protein intake. Many, perhaps most, observers, do not agree 
with von Noorden as to this point, and Hutchison expresses the most 
widely held views when he says that an insufficient supply of protein 
leads to imperfect tissue repair, more especially, perhaps, of the muscles 
and blood; that it causes the body to become unduly watery, whence the 
pallor and puffiness of the underfed ; and that the combined effect of these 
results is to produce a lowering of the power of resistance to unfavorable 
influences, including disease. A daily ration of which the protein content 
is greatly below the standard of Chittenden (many are of the opinion that 
Chittenden's standard is too low), is much more injurious than a short- 
coming in respect to carbohydrates and fat. 

Maleficent Sequences of Underfeeding. — As the question of underfeed- 
ing with its maleficent sequence of untoward effects on body and mind, 
appears to hinge largely on the quantity of protein in the diet, and, as 
this is the phase of the subject which has given rise to the most strenuous 
arguments, protein in its relation to malnutrition, physiologically and 
pathologically considered, will be amply dealt with later. 

However, before going into the question of underfeeding from the 
more scientific point of view, and before attempting to sift the wheat 
from the chaff in the dicta of those who have experimented and made 
observations on the metabolism of underfeeding, it may be interesting 
and perhaps instructive to discuss these features from a wider aspect. 
The effects of insufficient and injudicious feeding are manifest on all 
hands. The mind, the body and, if the terra is allowable, the spirit, are 
injuriously influenced by innutritions and insufficient food. The person 



UNDERFEEDING 149 

who is ill-fed deteriorates in all respects. Underfeeding is not the sole 
cause, but it is an extremely powerful contributory cause. 

With regard to both mental and physical deterioration brought about 
by an insufficient and ill-balanced food supply, perhaps the most complete 
and convincing evidence was afforded by reports concerning prison expe- 
rience in this direction published in 1898 in England. An especial sting 
was given to these reports, because they were partially confirmed at the 
time by the gruesome and powerful "Ballad of Reading Gaol," written 
by that unfortunate genius, Oscar Wilde. The Parliamentary Committee, 
two of whom were in the prison service, who were appointed to report on 
the alleged insufficient feeding of prisoners and who were certainly not 
biased against the existing system, after a searching inquiry stated that 
the diet was inadequate for the labor on which the prisoners were 
employed, that the breakfast and supper meals of male convicts were 
insufficient, while the element of fat in the dietary M'as deficient and 
more variety of food was desirable. It will not be contended that ihe low 
diet was alone responsible for the breakdown of the health of many pris- 
oners. Other influences conducing to a lowering of physical and perhaps 
mental resistance must be taken into account, such as the probable physical 
and mental degeneracy of a large proportion of the inmates, their monot- 
onous and generally unhealthful mode of life, and so on, but it may 
certainly be asserted that a diet deficient in quantity and lacking certain 
essential nutritive elements was an important factor in rendering the 
inmates especially prone to disease. Phthisis in those predisposed to the 
disease — and according to the most recent views there are few of us who 
are not thus predisposed — is notorious for attacking those whose vital 
resistance is weakened ; and the records of prisons in which the inmates are 
habitually underfed fully bear out this universally accepted theory. The 
tubercle bacillus appears to find a specially favorable soil in ill-nourished 
individuals and the association between an insufficient diet and such 
diseases as phthisis and scrofula is so well established that the reiteration 
of the facts becomes almost tiresome. Perhaps this is why diabetics, who 
live in state of more or less chronic starvation, are so liable to tuberculosis. 

Some few years ago the Rt. Hon. Charles Booth and Mr. Rowntree 
inquired into and made a report upon the condition of the laboring popu- 
lation of England and found that very considerable numbers of unskilled 
laborers were poverty stricken and chronically underfed, not perhaps to 
such an extent as to cause immediate physical suffering from lack of food, 
but yet enough to diminish working power and to lead ultimately to 
impairment of health. The power of resistance to infection and to 

110 



150 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

mental and physical deterioration is sadlj impaired in these men and 
even more in their families, for it cannot be too strongly insisted upon 
that when a man earns woefully small wages, it is the wife and children 
who suffer the most, and therefore, in the long run, it is the race and 
nation who must bear the brunt of underfeeding. 

Large sections of the community in all countries are still habitually 
underfed. America, Canada and Australia compare very favorably with 
Euopean countries in this respect. The reports from the former lands 
with regard to the condition of their working population are not as precise 
or as voluminous as those from Great Britain, and consequently it is to 
Great Britain tliat we turn for accurate and full information respecting 
social, economic and public health conditions. 

Observations on the diet of laborers in Edinburgh showed that it con- 
tained an average of 107.7 grams, and an energy value of 3,228 calories, 
as opposed to the 3,500 believed to be necessary for a man doing a moder- 
ate amount of muscular work. Mr. Rowntree's inquiries into the diet 
of a corresponding class in York yielded somewhat similar results, the 
protein average being no less than 29 per cent below what is or used to 
be regarded as standard requirements. The Edinburgh investigators 
(quoted by Hutchison) held the view that in order to improve the dietary 
of the laboring classes, the following principles should be instilled into 
them: (a) That a diet of tea and bread or of tea, bread and butter i& 
faulty; (6) that the faults of the tea and bread diet can be corrected by 
the free use of meat, eggs, or other animal food, but that this mode of 
correction is expensive; (c) that the faults can also be corrected by the 
free use of oatmeal with milk, or of peas and beans, without extra cost. 

It has been mentioned once or twice before that the worst eflfects of 
underfeeding fall on women and children, and it is the children who are 
the least able to bear deprivation of food, not only from the personal point 
of view, but also, and this is the most essential feature, from the national 
outlook. Hippocrates was well aware that the lack of food affected the 
young most injuriously, as one of his aphorisms runs after this fashion, 
"Old men bear want of food best ; then those that are adults ; youths bear 
it least, most especially children, and of them the most lively are the least 
capable of enduring it." The young need plenty of nourishing food in 
order that they may grow up healthy and vigorous, for if a considerable 
proportion do not have a diet sufficient and well balanced, they, if they 
survive, will come to maturity stunted in physique. If not actually 
unhealthy, they will lack vitality and will be rendered peculiarly suscept- 
ible to infection, probably deficient in mental attributes and when not 



UNDERFEEDIIsTG 151 

already steeped in crime, at least generally lacking that moral sense 
which serves as a bulwark against crime. Snch as these fill our prisons 
and asylums; they are a menace to the community, and their very exist- 
ence approaches a national disaster ; they propagate their like and endan- 
ger the well-being of a nation. Underfeeding is a prominent factor in 
their production and development ; the remote results from the health 
aspect can only be touched upon. There is no need to elaborate on the 
fact already strongly emphasized that underfeeding lays the system open 
to the inroads of disease. 

Investigations of a searching and impartial character have taken 
place into the condition of elementary school children in various parts of 
the world, including those attending schools in parts of the Southern 
States of this country, and deplorable evidences of physical deterioration 
have been revealed. They provide conclusive proof of the hlighting 
influence of parsimony in nutrition while growth is going on, to say 
nothing of diseases and defects, mental and physical. Unfortunately, this 
does not only signify a temporary setback, but a lasting damage, for the 
manner in which a child is fed at the growth period determines all sub- 
sequent development. Dwarfing, permanent dwarfing of one kind or 
another, is the consequence of insufficient feeding in early life. 

Reference may be made to the effects of insufficient feeding in 
diminishing resistance to cold and exposure. Sir John Franklin, in 
describing his and his companions' journeyings in the Arctic regions, said 
that during the whole of their march they found that no quantity of cloth- 
ing could keep them warm while they fasted, but on those occasions on 
which they were enabled to go to bed with full stomachs, they passed the 
night in a warm and comfortable manner, which signified that the 
demand for heat in the body was so great that it could no longer be met 
by diminishing loss, but that the deficit had to be made up by an increase 
of heat production, that is, by a greater consumption of food. 

The influence that inadequate and unsuitable food exerts on the 
capacity of the system for withstanding the effects of cold was well 
exemplified by certain episodes of the American Civil War, an account 
of which has been given by Flint (12). 

Chronic underfeeding will sap the vital forces; the powers of resist- 
ance of the body will be so undermined that infection will be easily con- 
tracted and underfed people will be a danger to their fellowmen inasmuch 
as they will provide a fertile agency for the spread of infection. 

Its effects in producing liability to disease were illustrated in a strik- 
ing way by the outbreaks of relapsing fever and typhus which followed 



152 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

the potato famine in Ireland in the early part of the nineteenth century. 
Similar results have been observed to follow in the wake of famine 
everywhere, notably in India and in China where fever and plague 
invariably dog the footsteps of famine. It has also been pointed out by 
Hutchison that exposure to infection is specially apt to be dangerous on 
an empty stomach, as, for example, before breakfast, a fact which it is 
particularly important for members of the medical profession to bear in 
mind. 

Enough has been said as to the relationship of underfeeding to 
disease. The two are most intimately related, and it is an obvious fact' 
that the furnishing of cheap and good food is as much of an economic 
as it is a hygienic measure. 

There is one other phase of the subject in connection with individual 
and public health that is worthy of brief comment — the bad effect of 
chronic underfeeding on the digestive organs. In all cases of chronic 
underfeeding an impairment of organs concerned with the digestive pro- 
cess is observed. The truth of this statement may be partly verified in 
the case of dyspeptics. The less they eat the less they are able to digest 
and the more their nutrition fails. Frequently the most effective mode 
of curing their stomach troubles is to insist that they eat more. Unfortu- 
nately, so far as the poor are concerned, this remedy is impossible. But 
it is an interesting question whether the effect of town life, combined 
with poverty or merely ignorance or carelessness in impairing digestive 
power, may not be to a certain extent responsible for the habitual under- 
feeding so often found in the industrial section of urban districts. In 
other words, they may be instances of both cause and effect. A vicious 
circle has been established, and the town worker even when comparatively 
well-to-do may in many cases be incapable of digesting enough food to 
keep him in an ideal state 6f physical efficiency. This fact was forcibly 
emphasized in the early part of 1917 when the author was mustering 
officers for several National Guard regiments, passing on their fitness 
to enter the Federal service. It was observed that one-third of the young 
men coming from the industrial centers showed evidences of under- 
feeding. They were 33 per cent undersized, underfed and underweight. 

Diverging somewhat from the subject in hand, may not underfeeding 
also be a potent cause of drinking? The underfed man, even if he be 
poor, feels the want of some stimulating or perhaps narcotic action and 
he seeks and finds this spur or Lethe in alcohol. There is a definite 
relationship between underfeeding and the consumption of alcohol. 

Undoubtedly there is a close connection between underfeeding and 



UNDERFEEDING 153 

crime. The underfed individual, especially if he or she has been under- 
fed from childhood up, is a potential criminal. Again it may be said 
that there is no intention to aver that lack of food is the sole cause of 
crime, but, on the other hand, it is an always present spur to crime. 
Poverty and underfeeding are debasing influences, morally, physically 
and mentally, and in the words of Dr. King Chambers (13), "deficient 
diet, like all morbid conditions, both corporeal and mental, is a vitiating 
and degenerating influence. Famine is naturally the mother of crimes 
and vices, not only of such sort as will satiate the gnawing desire for food, 
but of general violence and lawlessness, ill temper, avarice, lust and 
cruelty." 

Underfeeding if not the mother of crime is at least a very near rela- 
tion, and if a nation is to be happy and prosperous it is a paramount 
necessity that its members shall be well fed. Ignorance has much to 
do with underfeeding, and in order to inculcate into the minds of the 
mass of the people some elementary truths concerning food values, a 
campaign of education should be inaugurated on these lines in every 
civilized country. This has been done in the large industrial centers of 
Great Britain and in some of the European countries. The Mothers' 
Welfare Associations, which have sprung up throughout the urban com- 
munities of Great Britain, due to the initiative of Dr. Eric Pritchard of 
London, teach mothers how to feed and bring up their babies and also 
how to feed and bring up their families, including their husbands. With 
regard to food values, absolutely exact and definite knowledge is still 
lacking, but quite enough is known to enable us to lay down rules as 
to the most nutritious and suitable foods for all sorts and conditions of 
men living in all sorts of conditions and in any climate. 

Metabolism of Underfeeding. — Some of the recent views dealing with 
the metabolism of underfeeding will now be presented. 

PROTEIN METABOLISM.— Minimum Protein Necessary to Maintain 
Nitrogen Equilibrium. — Views as to protein metabolism are conflicting, 
especially with regard to the question of how much protein is necessary 
to maintain health, or, in other words, to maintain nitrogen aquilibrium.. 
The opinions of von Noorden and Rechenberg on this much vexed point 
have been stated, and the following (taken from von Noorden) is a table 
in which certain experiments in this direction are noted : 



154 



OVEKFEEDING AND UNDEKFEEDING 



ds O »^ " aj 










00 00 lO »ooo o> 



00 CO 00 o 
1-1 CO 



CO 00 00 CO lO 



3 

I 



i.S fe ©"I 



Ph ■»^ 






-is c: § 
^ MO 



O 






o 
H 



2 



73 



i=! 3 



O 






OS 

c5 
+ 

TD .S 
9^ 



.a 

03 



73 
d 



03 
•a 

o 



11 

c3 "^ 



-^-g 






>^s 

•^ 5 -.S 



-a 



>> '53 






^» 


um 

(0.5 pe 
sses 

and bod 
inN 




N equilibr 
N retainec 
Small Nlo 
Gain in N 
Small gain 


t1 


>> 

Q 



.-H 00 lO Tj< 00 »o « OS 
iCiCt>»iOi— I 1— t iCOlOi-H 

c5oooi-5 T-J oo i-H 



O OO i-iO 



ifS IC l>- W5 1— I 



00 CO 00 b- o 



CO00 00<N »0 



o ocot^ >* 

00 00 <0 Tf< lO 



w ooor^io 



^ 



CO 



O O 05 10 M 
(N (M to •-< CO 
Q O lO t^ ■* 
»0 lO •* (N CO 



00 Q 0(N CO 

t^ O -H CO CO 

Tt< t>. t>. -^ 00 

(N CO (N CO (M 



Tt< O l^ CO T}< 

(N CO (N (N --H 






oo O OtJ< 



00 B o o c> ^ 

00 5 »o t^ CO t^ 
Ti< _g t-» »0 b- »0 



O p 00 (N «0 

OS CO >0 CO t>^ 
lO »>• CO CO CO 



: a 






3 
« 



O 

H -^ s w i 



cr ' 

It ^'^ 

COM 



«^ 



oc> 



OcO 
■'tl 00 



COO 

1— ( Tt< 

CO lO 



T3 

d 



J3 



0! 


. — . 4) 


* 


O 




(H 


is 


zl^ 


P5 


m 

ei 

0) 


OS ^a 


S 


h 
v 


B-^^ 


.£-§ 


is 


"^ ^'b 


-gOQ 


en 

a; 




. 0St3 




O 41 ^ 


o ~ 


B 


■^."S - 


o-s, 


" ' 


S^c- 


-o a 


> 


fi^O^ 


— 5 3 


-»J 


Cts C 


— -*^ •> 


a 


C a: ^ 


isj'o a 


(0 


a-ra 




4; t, .t: 


O-^ 3 


0) 

-M 


r: V- 43 eg — 5W 


















-«J 






1 










6 




« 






"(J 


4< 




c 




" ~ 


'^ 


o< 




c 








a 












4< 




-g 


o 


» S 


m 


Oi 














IB 






. a 


O 


- e8 




60 


& 


,S 


CO r^ 00 o o eq 



^ i i 11 I I 

_c »A ci t- oo OJ 1-1 
-S d d d © 6 i-i 



t 



UNDERFEEDING 155 

Von Noorden hedges somewhat with regard to the intake of protein 
necessary to maintain health and the nitrogen equilibrimn by giving, as 
his opinion, that in spite of the teaching of Chittenden and others their 
doctrines will not attract too many admirers, nor will these doctrines 
bring them many adherents, for the majority of men even with the alhir- 
ing prospect of a prolongation of life or rejuvenation prefer to enjoy the 
comforts of this mundane sojourn. 

The workman will still take a larger quantity of meat than the 
sedentary man. More protein is always taken during severe muscular 
work, and there must be a good reason for this. The Vienna scientist 
then proceeds to dissect the explanation brought forward by Voit and 
finishes by saying that while it is certainly true that, in passing to a diet 
poor in protein, the body loses nitrogen at the outset, nevertheless the 
total loss is small, and the functional capabilities may not be at all 
diminished. If the musculature is kept in good condition by continual 
exercise, even if the diet is lowered to less than two-thirds of Volt's 
standard, muscular strength and power of carrying out work may be 
actually increased. Von Noorden may be, therefore, taken as an advo- 
cate of a low protein intake. 

E. T. Spriggs(14), the British authority, who has given the question 
of diet the most thorough experimental study, sums up the relation of 
protein to activity by saying that the bulk of the caloric value required 
for muscular work should be supplied by carbohydrate or fat, but that it 
is an advantage also to increase the protein in food, and that a diet con- 
taining a fair amount of protein is likely to be favorable to an energetic 
existence. 

Another English authority, Sir James Crichton Browne (15), has 
pointed out that even if it should be fully established by experiments 
more extended and varied than those of Chittenden, that nitrogen 
equilibrium can be maintained on a much smaller amount of protein than 
has hitherto been supposed, there would still be a question as to whether 
it would be wise and prudent to adopt the minimum amount as the rule 
of life. With a low protein supply the organism may have to adapt itself 
to its situation under conditions of strain. It has a large power of 
adapting itself to circumstances, but that power may be overtaxed. Let 
it be granted that the average amount of protein food now habitually 
ingested does considerably exceed the quantity required to maintain at 
an exact point metabolic equilibrium, it does not follow that it should be 
lowered to the point at which, according to laboratory observations, 
metabolic equilibrium stands steady. Metabolic equilibrium is never 



156 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

steady or at a fixed point. It varies in different individuals and in the 
same individuals from hour to hour, and it is always safe to allow a 
margin, and a broad margin. 

This writer contends that not only is protein starvation manifested 
in diminished resistance to bacterial invasion, but in a general lowering 
of bodily tone, and in debility which may be traced to diminished metab- 
olism, owing to the withdrawal of the stimulus to it which alimentary 
principles of the protein class supply. Benedict (16), too, traverses 
Chittenden's results and concludes that permanent reductions of protein 
intake are decidedly disadvantageous, and not without possible danger. 
The relationship of a small protein intake, then, to underfeeding has 
been by no means made clear. Some assert and seem to have proved 
their assertion by careful experiments that a low protein intake has little 
to do with underfeeding. At least they state that a man can thrive and 
perform really hard labor on a diet the protein constituent of which 
would have been regarded only a few years ago as ridiculously inadequate. 
Others hold that, while most people were and are accustomed to ingest 
too much protein, the standard laid down by Chittenden and those who 
hold his views is too low. Still others, like Sir J. Crichton Browne, 
claim that a very considerable protein intake is necessary for the conser- 
vation of good health, and especially in the case of laborers and those who 
take a good deal of heavy exercise. 

The author is among those who are not extremists and is of the 
opinion that a fair amount of protein should be taken by persons who per- 
form manual labor and carry on their work in the open air. Therefore, 
a small protein intake is a factor of some moment so far as underfeeding 
is concerned. Underfeeding in the ordinary circumstances of life occurs, 
as a rule, from an insufficiency of nitrogen-free substances, generally 
associated with a diminution of protein. 

In all cases in which underfeeding is persisted in for long periods, 
it is associated with a smaller or greater loss of protein. Hirschfield (17), 
Kumagawa(18), R. O. Neumann (19). 

Neumann supplies the best example commencing with an insufficient 
diet. He very gradually raised the protein and energy intake until he 
arrived at nitrogen equilibrium. For thirty-five days or longer he kept 
on the insufficient diet. 

The following table, taken from von Noorden, showed the conditions 
that existed: 



UNDERFEEDING 



157 



TABLE SHOWING EFFECT OF INSUFFICIENT DIET WITH GRADUAL 
INCREASE IN ALIMENT UNTIL NITROGEN EQUILIBRIUM WAS 

ESTABLISHED 







Intake 




Nitrogen Balance 




Weight 




Dura- 
tion in 






Cal. 
per 




Differ- 
ence in 


Series 












at 
Outset, 
Kilo. 




Days 


N 


Pro- 


Cal. 


Ks. 


Daily 


Of the Whole 


Weight 








tein 








Series 




1 


10 


8.02 


51 


1,535 


23 


-2.81 


-28.1 




+0.0 


67.0 


2 


12 


9.07 


57 


1,599 


24 


-3.11 


-37.3 




-0.9 




67.0 


3 


8 


11.24 


70 


1,909 


29 


-2.11 


-16.9 -96.1 


-0.1 


-1.5 


66.1 


4 


5 


12.70 


79 


1,937 


30 


-2.76 


-13.8 


-0.5 




66.0 


5 


15 


12.23 


76 


2,659 


40 


+0.22 


+ 3.3 


+ 1.3 




65.5 




















66.8 


Aver- 


50 


10.56 




1,987 


30 




-92.8 (!) 


-0.2 (!) 


66.1 


age 





















The striking fact to be gathered from Neumann's experiments is that 
in the fifty days, with an average intake of 10.56 grams nitrogen and 
1,987 calories, he lost 93 grams nitrogen, and at the same time showed 
a loss of only 2 kilograms in body weight. 

The next table shows a series of experiments exhibiting the different 
amounts of protein requisite for the organism, as well as for the energy 
intake. G. Renvall(20), the results of whose experiments are here given, 
had a different end in view from Neumann, but used the same methods 
to carry out his experiments. His experiment was also of long duration : 

TABLE SHOWING EFFECT OF INSUFFICIENT DIET GRADUALLY IN- 
CREASED UNTIL BROUGHT UP TO BODY REQUIREMENTS! 









Intake 




NitrogenBalance 








Dura- 










Differ- 
ence in 




Series 












Weight 




tion in 


N 


Cal. 


Cal. 


Daily 


Of the 


Weight, 


Kg. 




Days 






per Kg. 




Whole 
Series 


Kg. 




1 


8 


12.1 


2,062 


29 


-5.34 


-42.7 


-1.5 


71.1 


2 


7 


13.7 


2,617 


37 


-2.66 


-18.6 


-2.0 


69.6 


3 


6 


16.1 


2,843 


42 


-2.74 


-16.4 


-0.4 


67.6 


4 


5 


22.7 


3,783 


56 


0.14 


0.7 


-0.0 


67.2 


5 


3 


21.2 


3,577 


53 


-2.47 


-14.8 


-0.0 


67.2 
67.2 


Average 


32 


16.5 


2,889 


46.2 


-2.9 


-91.8 


-3.9 


68.2 



1 Taken from von Noorden. 



158 OVEKFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

Neumann and Renvall each lost about 92 to 93 grams nitrogen in 
five to seven weeks, the former on a diet which would be considered barely 
sufficient under most circumstances, the latter upon one which would cer- 
tainly be regarded as rich, and yet the former maintained his weight 
almost unaltered. According to von Noorden, he must have stored water, 
because in his opinion he could not have stored before the beginning of 
the experiment quantities of intracellular protein to account for so slight 
a loss of weight. Kenvall lost flesh, some water and probably fat. 

In the table on the opposite page (taken from von Noorden) are in- 
cluded other series of experiments. 

All the experiments noted in the above table were carried out on the 
investigators themselves, who were working under practically identical 
conditions. The difference in the amount of nitrogen and in the protein 
and energy intake necessary to maintain equilibrium is remarkable and 
goes to show how greatly such variable results are due to the individual 
organism. 

Chemiral Decomposition of Protein Tissue. — It used to be the almost 
invariable custom to regard every sign of protein breaking down in 
disease as dangerous, and protein decomposition in the tissues as the 
origin of all grave symptoms. As a matter of fact, protein breaking down 
in disease is still looked upon as menacing. Von Noorden, however, 
thinks that in many cases this is a false conception. He is also of the 
opinion that the significance which is often attached to the products of 
the chemical decomposition of tissue protein is erroneous. There is no 
space to deal with the German authority's arguments against these long 
held beliefs, and it will be sufficient to say that in his opinion the strongest 
evidence against the doctrine that protein losses constitute a grave menace 
in disease is that in the most perfect health tissue protein breaks down. 

Pathology of Metabolism of Starvation. — It is very evident that a knowl- 
edge of the metabolism during fasting is of the first importance from the 
outlook of physiology and pathology. Experiments upon fasting animals 
and men have brought out many momentous facts, while pathology has 
to do with diseased persons who are starving or nearly so. There are 
two kinds of fasting: acute starvation and chronic starvation or mal- 
nutrition. The former type has been most extensively studied, but the 
pathology of its metabolism is still incomplete. 

To deal with the pathology of metabolism of starvation or chronic 
malnutrition exhaustively would take more space than can be given to it 
in this work. Nor, perhaps, would much be gained by so doing, since 
opinions on some of the more important points have not crystallized, and 



u:ndeefeeding 



169 







March to May 
Oct. to Nov. 


(?) 

April to May- 
March 
October 


Nos. 1 to 4: Variable amounts of nitrogen in the diet; in Nos. 1 and 2 (?) with sufficient caloric intake, in Nos. 3 and 
4 with sufficient caloric intake. 

No. 1: Experiment with an insufficient nitrogen and caloric intake at the beginning. At the beginning nitrogen losses, at 
the end a slight gain in nitrogen. 

No. 2: Similar to No. 1. 

No. 3: Sufficient caloric intake throughout. Nitrogen intake at outset insufficient, rising to a free supply. At the begin- 
ning loss in nitrogen, at the end a gain. 

No. 4: Sufficient caloric intake throughout. Nitrogen intake falling from a sufficient amount. In the beginning a gain in 
nitrogen, later a loss. 


be" 
a; « 


-C 
_bC 

'3 

^^ 

> 

< 


CO 00 OS O 00 (N* lO 
CO lO t^ t^ CO t^ CO 

^(N^oc^oooioeo^OrH 
CD 00 lo o ;5^' d (N 00 (N oc i 

COCOcOCOt^0000COt>.^iO 

t>. -<* O O lO lO t^ 

r+I 05 d >-< lO (M' 

CO >0 00 00 CO t^ 


a; 5 -^-' P bo 

3 1 sts 

.S a <" o 
.5 01 := -13 

O C . >H 73 
cS — I-, t» S "1 

^H"^ § * ? 
■e .^ be c Ts" 

2 > o £ §•« 
Sea o.S ® 






no 
<N05COOO'-|COiO'-HTt<0'-H 

d CO --i c<i "*' ^ CO d d d c 

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -h + + 


5 


2-2 03 


oqoqi>;CDCOQOcocoTt<coo 
(m' ^' ,_; o t^' r^ CO d d ■* co' 

OiC5--Hr-H.-H(M(MC^CO 

1 1 1 +++ 1 1 +++ 


^ 
^ 


Q 


lO lO t^ lO Tj< 00 

ooa)co(Nioo50cooO'— lo 

r-i (N d d d d T-i d d d d 

1 1 1 +4-+ 1 1 + + + 


^ ^ ^ S .2 

-r .2 £ <n OS 

t; c 03 CO 

c „. C c o ^- 
■^ ^ <« s 

22 *- § S S' 
•C 3 ^ -Cog 

X (u ^ X * 2 

£ o cS C o -w 
SOS oi «« 

0.=^ -3 § * 

".2 bcc-° '^-S 

<» !r, C a; c C . 

-g ^ 5: >.. o" .i: 

-*" 15 • r • - a; -3 .<-, 
bee !* ^:S « ° 


w 

1— I 

H 

O 

K 


6a 


ocoqqqcq^ oooo 

d (N r-l' --H ■* i-H t^ ai --H d CO 

CO'*l-*-<*<CO'*COCOTt<COCO 


03 

II 

^6 


8 

t^ 05 O ^t^ O CO 00 00 00 t- 
OOOOiOC^(M(MCOCOiOCOiO 
OOOCOj^iCCOOiCOOiCOCO 

r-H^c^Tc^'o c^fco'c^TiN^c-rc^fc^" 


> 
<I1 




CO t^ CO 

iOiOC0q<N'--i'--'(Nq(N(N 

d CO 00 1> d 5^, J (N oo' c<j '^fH 

I— (1—1 I— 1 ..1— It— I.— IrH 

CO .-1 

7—1 1—1 


Dura- 
tion 
in 
Days 


OlMCOOSCOOS-^iOCO-*-* 
iOCOCOCOCO(N<NCOCO(M<M 




o 












c 

a. 

> 


• 

i»0 


•"^ '— ' HH HH HH K> 

S 5 d ri c- c! 

g g S S S S 

S S s S S S 

Oj D R C g S 
^ 03 OJ S 3 3 S 

o o <u aj «j i> 


f-i K-" X X ^- o oi 

»o 'o 2 ;z; ^ ^ :^ 

»• aj . . ** "I .2 
O O O O t» g ^ 

+3 tw) 




03 


^(N 


CO 


■* iC 


COI>00 o o --< 

T— 1 1—1 



160 



OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 



experiments on chronic malnutrition have been inadequate for many 
obvious reasons. The object of this treatise will be to discuss some of 
the more salient points in regard to the subject. 

As to the consumption of energy on the complete withdrawal of food 
during the first days, according to most authorities, the general metab- 
olism suffers no diminution. The sum of the investigations gathered 
from experiments on fasting men give general values of 22 to 25 calories 
per kilogram per day as the mean minimum conversion of energy while 
fasting during complete bodily rest. The expenditure of energy during 
starvation diminished in the same proportion as the weight of the body. 
The fasting man lives upon protein and fat, except during the first few 
days, while his muscles and liver still contain glycogen. The respiratory 
quotient at times fell below the theoretical minimum O.Y. 

Pembrey and Sprigg8(21) record that in rats, during fasting, the 
respiratory exchange quickly reaches a minimum, and remains almost 
constant during the prolongation of the fast. 

CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY IN CHRONIC MALNUTRITION.— With regard 
to consumption of energy in chronic malnutrition, experiments are few 
and inconclusive. It seems that certain individuals are able to exist 
with a particularly low consumption of energy. Von Noorden believes 
that even in chronic malnutrition, the minimum amount of energy 
required by persons who are bedridden or who are indoors and do little 
bodily work does not fall below 30 to 32 calories per day per kilogram. 

The following are Rubner's figures for a dog whose consumption of 
energy was investigated for three years : 



TABLE SHOWING DIMINISHING CONVERSION OF CALORIES PER 
KILOGRAM ACCOMPANYING PROGRESSIVE LOSS OF FLESH 



Variations in 

Weight, 

Kilogram 


Mean Weight, 
Kilogram 


Average Conver- 
sion of Calories 


Average Conver- 
sion of Calories 
per Kilogram 


8.01-6.84 
6.66-6.33 
6.27-5.80 


6.94 
6.45 
6.09 


432.1 
371.8 
332.0 


62.3 
57.6 
54.7 



PROTEIN METABOLISM IN ACUTE STARVATION.— The protein metab- 
olism of man during acute starvation has often been investigated. 
Fasting persons habitually drink water in small quantities. After the 
first day, or perhaps after the first two days, the standard loss of nitrogen 



UNDERFEEDING 161 

may be taken as 10 to 13 grams for the next week or ten days. The loss 
of nitrogen according to Pransintz(22) is relatively greater in the thin 
than in the fat. The nitrogen excretion of fasting women is from 20 
to 30 per cent less than that of fasting men. The protein decomposition 
is relatively large at first, and usually sinks somewhat sharply as the 
starvation proceeds. 

Figures show how the organism spares its protein when it is ill fed. 
Chronic malnutrition is not characterized by a small nitrogen excretion, 
but the output of nitrogen depends essentially upon the preceding diet. 
In chronic malnutrition but little urinary nitrogen is usually found. 
Von Noorden is not an advocate of protein feeding and claims that pro- 
tein cannot prevent the loss of power in underfed people and he concludes 
that in heat-value starvation a protein-rich diet does not protect the tissue 
protein from being consumed. According to von Noorden our present 
knowledge of the decomposition of protein in chronic underfeeding is as 
follows : 

1. After prolonged malnutrition the decomposition of protein is grad- 
ually lessened ; more of the tissue protein is lost in the earlier than in the 
later stages. Analogous are cases where the demand for heat is met fully 
while only the protein intake fails to reach the required level. Loss of 
the body protein does not necessarily follow in such cases. Nitrogen 
equilibrium can be maintained upon a protein decomposition far smaller* 
than that which usually obtains, as, for instance, on a daily excretion of 
from 6 to 10 grams of nitrogen in the urine and feces. But generally it 
is only weak persons who illustrate this possibility, and the question 
may properly be asked whether a larger protein intake would not bring 
them more nearly to their optimum of nutrition and strength. 

2. Long continued underfeeding, apart, perhaps, from minute and 
hitherto unproven degrees of caloric deficiency, invariably leads to loss 
of body fat as well as to loss of tissue protein, whether the supply of 
food protein is large or small. Only the absolute extent of nitrogen 
excreted varies with the latter factor; the establishment of a nitrogen 
balance is independent of its duration. A diet of low heat value but rich 
in protein can diminish, or even for a time postpone, the loss of nitrogen, 
but in the long run the result for human beings will be the same as if 
all the components of the diet were diminished. If the heat value of the 
food be continuously inadequate, an increase of protein will perhaps put 
a stop to the loss of nitrogen from the body for the time being, but, in 
man, a moment comes when further increase of the food protein in the 
diet becomes impracticable. In these circumstances the tissue protein 



162 OVERFEEDIK^G AKD UKDERFEEDING 

can only be maintained by adding nitrogen-free constituents to the diet 
in order to satisfy the demand for heat. 

3. At present no exact quantitative measurements of the relations 
between the caloric deficit and the loss of body protein in chronic under- 
feeding are extant. The loss is unexpectedly small in some cases, in 
others surprisingly large. 

4. Whenever a poorly nourished individual receives an increased 
amount of food, so that the deficiency of heat is decreased, an effort is 
made to retain nitrogen and repair the loss of cellular material that has 
occurred. This retention of nitrogen goes on until the body has 
readjusted itself to its new conditions of nutrition. Then the loss of 
nitrogen begins anew unless the calories required have been adequately 
supplied. The influence of starvation or chronic malnutrition upon the 
digestive organs is that their activity is lowered although not uniformly. 
Malnutrition leading to extreme loss of body weight does not invariably 
stop the production of hydrochloric acid. 

SECRETION OF BILE.— There is less secretion of bile during fasting 
than when the diet is full, but it is never entirely absent. The quantity 
of bile secreted is diminished but it is usually more concentrated. The 
glycogen in the liver is consumed rapidly, at first, but more slowly as the 
fasting continues. F. Muller(23) found that during starvation the 
feces contained hardly any soluble protein, but a relatively large propor- 
tion of nuclein. The excretion of fat amounted to 1.21, 0.57, and 1.14 
grams a day. About half consisted of neutral fats and cholesterin, the 
other half being composed of free fatty acids and soaps. The absorbing 
power of the intestine, according to many German authorities, does not 
diminish in consequence of prolonged malnutrition. This is an important 
point with regard to dietetic treatment in connection with the evacuation 
of feces. A certain amount of putrefaction is said to go on in the 
intestine during the withdrawal of food despite the fact that no protein 
reaches the intestine. 

• THE BLOOD. — In chronic malnutrition the percentage of water in the 
blood is maintained approximately at the normal level. 

During starvation the leukocytes are diminished in number. 

THE URINE. — During starvation the average amount of urine remains 
sub-normal. In cases of chronic underfeeding the conditions vary greatly 
so that no fixed rules can be laid down. 

During acute starvation protein is often found in the urine, though 
mostly in minute quantities. Clinical experience shows that a moderate 
degrectof chronic underfeeding does not commonly lead to the appearance 



I 



UNDERFEEDING 163 

of more albumin in the urine than may be present normally. The case is 
altogether different when marked and protracted malnutrition is met 
with. In such instances, albuminuria, transient or lasting, is the rule. 
Mild glycosuria has been observed in a few fasting experiments and 
chronic underfeeding but is probably not directly responsible for any 
form of diabetes. 

Conclusions — The above brief review of the metabolism and patholog- 
ical metabolism of starvation and chronic underfeeding is necessarily 
incomplete and does not profess, as stated in the introductory remarks, 
to do more than give a few of the more important facts. From the 
experimental aspect of underfeeding, no very definite conclusions can be 
drawn, that is, conclusions of practical value. Among those who have 
studied the matter in laboratories somewhat wide difference of opinion 
exists with regard to important points. Animal experimentation is 
fallacious, or at any rate not to be entirely depended upon in drawing 
conclusions applicable to man. Experiments on those in a condition of 
chronic underfeeding are few and far between except in cases of disease, 
in which conditions are not analogous. Fasting experiments are valuable, 
but a person fasting is not in the same condition as one who is chronically 
underfed and consequently experiments as to metabolism on fasting per- 
sons are not wholly reliable. 

It is true that the application of the experimental method has yielded 
and will yield, as science progresses, some insight into the general prin- 
ciples which govern the nutrition of the body. 

Upon food depends not only life itself, but the power to work and 
to resist disease. An ill-fed people are a backward people, and an 
unhealthy and a degenerate people. From the vegetable world innumer- 
able examples can be gathered to illustrate the great effect of food 
variations upon growth and development. In a good soil a plant will 
evolve in a marvelous manner. On the other hand, a bad soil will yield 
a poor growth. The most striking example of the effect of food upon 
development in the animal world is afforded by the queen bee, which 
grows from a larva in all respects similarly to the working bee, but owes 
her superior growth to the fact that, different from the rank and file of 
the bee tribe, she is assiduously fed on a rich diet. 

There are two or three points which the author desires to emphasize 
with regard to underfeeding. The first is that chronic underfeeding is 
prevalent even in this country and that it is more due to ignorance than 
to poverty. The poor do not know anything about food values and, more 
often than not, buy foods which constitute not only a comparatively 



164 OVERFEEDING AND UNDERFEEDING 

innutritious but an ill-balanced diet. Education is needed in this 
direction. 

Another point is that scientific experiments cannot wholly determine 
food values. In the experience of mankind with regard to diet, there 
are spread out before us the results of the experiments of ages, and we 
must be quite as greatly influenced by such experiments as by laboratory 
investigations. The experiments of ages have demonstrated that man 
can live a healthy life under dietetic conditions of great variety. It is 
not wise to be bound by the teachings of one system or another. By 
studying in an open-minded manner the teachings of experience together 
with the results of scientific experiments, we shall be able to formulate 
dietaries suitable for conditions of health and disease. It is with these 
principles that the problem of underfeeding should be met. 



REFERENCES 

1. Thompson, Sir Henry. Food and Feeding, p. 64. 

2. ZuNTz. Sind Kalorisch Aquivalente Mengen von Kohlenhydraten 

und Fetten fiir Mast und Gutfettung Gleichwertig ? Therap. 
d. Gengenw., 1901. 

3. RuBNER. Gesetze des Energieverbranches, 1902. 

4. VON NooRDEN. Pathology of Metabolism. 

5. Howell. Handbook of Physiology, 1915. 

6. RosENFELD. Ergcbnissc der Physiologie, 1902, vol. i, part i. 
Y. ZuNTz, ScHUMBURG, U. I*hy8. des Marsches, 1901. 

8. Kraijs. von Noorden's Pathology of Metabolism, Fever and 

Infection. 

9. SvENsoN. StoiTwechselversuche an Rekonvaleszenten, Zeitsch. f. 

klin. Medi., 1901. 

10. Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

11. Rechenbero. Ernahrung der Handwiber, 1890. 

12. Flint. Physiology of Man, New York, 1867, p. 35. 

13. Chambers, Kino. Manual of Diet in Health and Diseases, 1876, 

2nd ed., p. 223. 

14. Spriggs, E. T. Sutherland's System of Diet and Dietetics. 

15. Browne, Sir James Crichton. Parsimony in Nutrition. 

16. Benedict. Am. J. Physiol., 1906, p. 409. 

17. HinscHFiELD, F. Zur Ernahningslehre d. Mensch., Arch. f. path. 

a/iat. u. Physiol., 114, 301, 1889. 



REFERENCES 165 

18. KuMAGAWA. Emahr. mit geniischt. u. rein vegetabilis — Rost. 

Arch. f. path. anat. u. Physiol., 116, 370, 1889. 

19. Neumann. Taglich Eiweissbedarf des Menchen, Arch. f. Heil- 

kunde, 45, 1, 1903. 

20. Renvall, G. Und Nig-TJmsatz beim erwaehsenen Mensch., Skan- 

dovischer Archiv. fal Physiol., 16, 94, 1904, p. 101. 

21. Pembkey and Spriggs. Metabolism in Fasting and Feeding, Jour. 

Physiol., vol. 31, p. 343, 1904. 

22. Prausintz . Zur Eiweissersetzung des hungernden Menschen, 

Miineh. med. Wchnschr., 1891, p. 319. 

23. MuLLER, F. Untersuchungen an zwei hungernden Menschen, Arch. 

f. path. anat. u. Physiol., 131, suppl., 1893. 



4? 



in 



CHAPTER VII 



PEOTEIN AND NUTRITIOI^' 

The discovery of a new dish does more for the happiness of humankind than 
the discovery of a new star. 

Nature of Protein; The Protein Poison. 

Metabolism cf Protein: Deaminization of Proteins in Amino-Acids ; Catab- 
olism of Proteins, 

Effect of Protein Diet on Health and Endurance: High Protein Diet; 
Low Protein Diet; Chittenden's Investigations, Fisher's Investiga- 
tions, Baeltz's Investigations among Japanese, Other Foreign Nations 
Non-Meat Eaters. 

Standard of Protein Requirement in Dietary. 

High versus Low Protein Diet: Protein Diet and the Nitrogen Equilibrium; 
Reduction of Protein Diet Necessary; Effect of Increased Nitrogen 
Diet on the Kidneys; Effect of Protein Diet on Strength and Endur- 
ance; Effect of Low Protein Diet on Animals; Protein Diet and 
Occupation; The Amino-Acid in Animal and Vegetable Proteins; 
Minimum Protein Requirement to Maintain Nitrogen Equilibrium; 
Safety Standard in Diet: Caution as to Protein Deficiency, Overfeed- 
ing, Underfeeding, Ill-Effects of Absorption of End.-Products of Pro- 
tein Digestion. 

Protein Structure and Properties: Chemical Formation of the Protein 
Fractions ; Quantitative Differences of Proteins, Qualitative Varia- 
tions in the Amino-Acids of Proteins; Physical Properties of Proteins; 
Relative Absorption of Proteins; Differences in Suitability for Tissue 
Construction. 

Theories of Protein Metabolism. 

Nature of Protein. — During the past few years a revolution has taken 
place in our conception of protein metabolism, and we should all be 
proud of the fact that our own country has furnished its full quota of 
newly discovered facts upon which our present knowledge is based. 

While studying the physiology of digestion (see Volume I, Chapter 
VII), we learned that, among the building material employed for the 
construction of the living organism, the proteins hold a place apart, and 
we also learned that protein is absorbed only after being largely or com- 
pletely broken down in amino-acids, which are then rebuilt into the 
protein organism. 

167 



168 PKOTEIN AND NUTKITION" 

The conception of the structure of a protein molecule is of special 
importance not only in the study of protein metabolism, for which we 
are to use it here, but also in enabling us to grasp the almost unthinkable 
varieties in which protein exists, without there being, in many instances, 
any outward chemical reaction or physical property by which one protein 
can be distinguished from another. It is interesting to note, however, 
that differences in structure which are too slight to be recognizable by 
any ordinary chemical tests may become very apparent upon minute 
biological examination when we proceed to observe the behavior of an 
animal into whose blood some of the protein is directly injected. It is a 
well-known fact that symptoms of varying severity develop, from the 
almost instantaneous death produced by snake venom to the slowly 
developing anaphylactic reactions which follow the injections into the 
blood of many proteins that are chemically indistinguishable from those 
of the blood itself. 

The Protein Poison (Protein Absorption). — Vaughan and Wheeler in 
1903 found that the cellular substance of the colon bacillus (1) contains 
a highly active poison and that a closely related or similar poison could 
be obtained from other pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria and from 
vegetable and animal proteins. It is not found in gelatin. The symp- 
toms induced by this poison in guinea pigs are, first, peripheral irrita- 
tion, such as an urticarial rash ; second stage, partial paralysis, with 
rapid and shallow breathing, and, third or convulsive stage, that which 
begins as isolated clonic movements and finally becomes general, involv- 
ing all the muscles of the body; with fatal doses there is a progressive 
fall of temperature. Kemp(2) points out that small doses administered 
subcutaneously in animals produce fever and that various types of fever 
may be stimulated by varying the size of the dose and the intervals of 
administration. When proteins are acted on by the digestive juices, the 
product becomes poisonous at the peptone stage, and if it were so 
absorbed into the circulation, it would be highly injurious, but with nor- 
mal digestion the peptone is broken up into harmless amino-acids. If 
proteins, however, enter the blood without being properly changed by 
the action of the digestive juices, then they must be digested in the 
blood and tissues (parenteral digestion), and during the process the 
protein poison is set free and exerts its deleterious effects on the body. 
It is suspected by some that protein has an influence in the production 
of the summer diarrheas of infancy, and studies of the protein poison 
and protein sensitization have demonstrated how the protein element of 
bacteria influences the nature and progress of the infectious diseases. 



METABOLISM OF PROTEIN 169 

Special idiosyncrasies to certain foods may he explained on the above- 
mentioned grounds, as, for example, urticaria, presenting the aspect of 
anaphylaxis from absorption of protein. In certain conditions, at least, 
protein absorption with parenteral digestion is a cause of protein 
poisoning. 

METABOLISM OF PROTEIN 

Deaminization of Proteins in Amino-Acids. — According to E. E. Smith 
(3), Folin and Dennis (25), Vanslyke and Meyer (49) and Underhill(3) 
— the simple amino-acids formed in the intestinal tract from protein break- 
down are absorbed as such and carried through the blood stream to the vari- 
ous tissues of the body, where they meet their fate. They are not absorbed 
with the same readiness, but there is apparently a decided selective action, 
both as to the particular amino-acids absorbed and as to the quantity. 
When they reach the tissues there is a recombination not to form the 
protein originally ingested, but rather to form the proteins of the par- 
ticular tissues. Protein resynthesis, not in absorption, but by the indi- 
vidual tissues to which the amino-acids are brought by the blood stream, 
must be regarded as sufficiently established to be accepted as a working 
hypothesis. In this way a certain portion of the absorbed amino-acids 
is utilized. A certain other, and usually a relatively large, portion, not 
needed for protein resynthesis, undergoes a different change. Instead 
of entering into constructive metabolic processes, it undergoes catabolic 
transformations. 

Catabolism of Proteins. — When proteins are introduced directly into 
the blood, parenterally, as we say, they act as a foreign substance and 
may be eliminated more or less unchanged by the kidneys, giving rise 
to albuminuria; may pass into the bile, thereby reaching the intestinal 
tract, where they are digested; may pass directly into the alimentary 
tract through the intestinal walls; or finally may be split by enzymes 
elaborated by body cells. 

Sensitization to a given protein is developed as the result of the 
introduction of the protein into the blood and is specific to each protein. 
When it has once been developed, the subsequent introduction of the 
particular protein into the system is followed by the phenomenon of 
anaphylaxis. 

EFFECT OF PROTEIN DIET ON HEALTH AND ENDURANCE 

High Protein Diet. — In overfeeding of a particular protein, a condi- 
tion may be produced that is entirely similar to the protein sensitization 



170 PKOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

that follows the introduction of protein parenterally. Perhaps this has 
been most clearly observed in the forced feeding of eggs, especially to 
the young, though it ig not uncommonly seen with a particular form of 
fish feeding, notably shellfish. Frequently, too, this has been observed 
with meats, and least commonly with vegetable proteins, presumably 
because of the less concentrated form of the latter and their slower 
transformation into soluble protein in digestion, though in individual 
instances particular vegetable proteins have produced the condition to a 
marked degree. Probably few physicians have failed to recognize at 
least some of the more marked cases of this kind, and probably few have 
often failed to overlook most of the less marked cases. 

Following an instance or period of overfeeding, there appears a con- 
dition of intolerance to the protein in question, which is manifest when 
the particular protein is again ingested by certain rapidly developing 
symptoms, perhaps the most constant of which is an urticaria, apt to be 
generalized in extent with intense itching, frequently dyspnea, sometimes 
muscular incoordination and often s^nnptoms of gastro-intestinal irrita- 
tion. It is probable that angioneurotic edema is in some instances, at 
least, a manifestation of protein sensitization. It is a question for con- 
sideration to what extent active protein is the absorbed material and to 
what extent the protein is absorbed as proteose. Where the urine 
shows the elimination of unchanged protein, we may well believe that 
the offending material is native protein ; and where the urine is found 
to contain the foreign protein as proteose, we must at least give serious 
consideration to the possibility of the protein having been absorbed as 
proteose, though even there it must be recognized that the native protein 
may have been transformed into protein after absorption, since it is the 
tendency of the tissues to bring about this change. 

We may well question whether urticaria following food ingestion is 
always to be regarded as an anaphylactic manifestation or whether it is 
not at times produced by a different type of gastro-intestinal toxemia. 
When, for example, we regard the toxemia following the ingestion of 
strawberries, we have a condition well explained from most points of 
view by the theory of protein sensitization ; but we have to face the fact 
that strawberries are not rich in protein and that, therefore, the sensi- 
tization, if present, has been produced without rich protein ingestion. 
Evidently some further knowledge is required before the pathology of 
susceptibility to strawberries can be unequivocally regarded as coming 
within this category. 

Eecently, the theory of protein sensitization has attracted attention 



EFFECT OF PROTEIN DIET in 

and in some instances is charged with the faults that have heretofore 
been explained by chronic intestinal toxemia of bacterial origin. It is 
a matter for the future to decide to what extent toxic manifestations are 
to be referred to the absorption of proteins, to products of bacterial 
synthesis of the digestive products of food proteins. At the present time 
the evidence already at hand as to the part played by bacterial decompo- 
sition is not to be ignored (4). 

Low Protein Diet — CHITTENDEN'S INVESTIGATIONS.— Prof. Chitten- 
den, of Yale University, in November, 1902, began an experiment upon 
himself which he has recorded. At this time he was forty-seven years 
of age and weighed 143 pounds (5). He says that, accustomed to eating 
daily an amount of food approximately equal to the prevailing dietary 
standards, he recognized that his habits of living should not be too suddenly 
changed, so a gradual reduction was brought about in the amount of pro- 
tein or albuminous foods he was accustomed to ingest. Within the course 
of a month or two this gradual decrease in proteins reached complete abo- 
lition of breakfast, except for a small cup of coffee. A light lunch was 
partaken of at the noon hour, followed by a heavier dinner in the early 
evening. Occasionally, however, the heartier meal was partaken of at 
the noon hour, as his appetite suggested. It should be added that the 
total intake of food was gradually diminished, as well as the protein 
constituents. There was not, however, a change to a vegetable diet, but 
a simple introduction of physiological economy. The goal to which his 
attention was directed was the exclusion of meat in some measure, the 
appetite not calling for this form of food in the same degree as formerly. 

At the beginning, he confesses that this change to a smaller amount 
of food daily was attended with some discomfort, but gradually passed 
away, and his interest in the subject was increased by the discovery that 
he was unquestionably in improved physical condition. A rheumatic 
trouble in the knee joint, which had persisted for a year and a half, and 
which only partially responded to treatment, entirely disappeared. Minor 
troubles, such as sick headaches and bilious attacks, no longer annoyed 
him periodically, as in the past. He experienced greater appreciation 
of such food as was eaten and possessed a keener appetite. A more acute 
taste appeared to be developed and a more thorough liking for simple 
foods. According to his report, by June, 1903, his body weight had 
fallen to about 128 pounds. 

In speaking further of his experience, he says that during this sum- 
mer the same simple diet was adhered to: a small cup of coffee for 
breakfast, a fairly substantial dinner at midday, and a light supper at 



172 PROTEIN AND NUTKITION 

night. The next two months he spent at a fishing resort in northern 
Maine. Part of the time he dispensed with a guide and rowed his own 
boat, frequently six to ten miles in the forenoon (against head winds), 
without breakfast, and with much greater freedom from fatigue and 
muscular soreness than previously on a fuller protein dietary. On his 
return home he weighed 127 pounds. From July 1st he remained con- 
stantly at this point, at which it would seem that the body had found 
and maintained its equilibrium. In order to determine his nitrogen 
equilibrium, he collected each day's output of urine for a period of eight 
and a half months. The urine was anal/zed every day and the contained 
amounts of nitrogen, uric acid and phosphoric acid recorded. 

The daily average was as follows : from October 13, 1903, to March 
12, 1904, the average volume of urine excreted was 468 grams; the 
nitrogen content was 5.G0 grams; uric acid, 0.392 gram, and phosphoric 
acid, 0.904 gram. It will be observed that the volume of urine excreted 
was small, though fairly constant for the whole period. The explana- 
tion offered is that on a low intake of protein there is less thirst and 
less desire to drink. When nitrogenous waste is reduced to a minimum 
there is no need on the part of the body for any large amount of fluid to 
flush out the kidneys, while with heavier eating — partaking of highly 
nitrogenous foods — an abundance of water is necessary to prevent the 
kidneys from becoming clogged, thereby explaining the frequent bene- 
ficial results of the copious drinking of mineral waters, spring waters, 
etc., frequently called for after or with heavy eating. It is obvious, 
therefore, that a small volume of urine each day means so much less 
wear and tear of the delicate mechanism of the kidneys. The low nitro- 
gen output of only 5.69 grams, equal to 35.56 grams of decomposed 
protein, is very remarkable. Prof. Chittenden afiirms that there could 
be little doubt that his body was in nitrogen equilibrium and that hia 
body weight was constant during the whole period. Chittenden, in sum-^ 
ming up his observations, says (6): 

Health, strength, mental and physical vigor, have been maintained unimpaired, 
and there is a growing conviction tliat in many ways there is a distinct improve- 
ment in both the physical and mental condition. Greater freedom from fatigue, 
greater aptitude for work, greater freedom from minor ailments, have gradually 
become associated to the writer's mind with this lowered protein metabolism and 
general condition of physiological economy. 

Chittenden was fully alive to the necessity of caution in the accept- 
ance of his feelings as a measure of physical or mental condition, but he 
was keenly watchful for any sign or svmptom during the course of his 



EFFECT OF PROTEIN DIET 



173 



experiments, and is still strongly of the opinion that there is much good 
to be gained in the adoption of dietetic habits that accord more closely 
with the true physiological needs of the body. Thus he asks: 

If a man of 154 pounds body weight can maintain a condition of equilibrium 
with continuance of health, strength and vigor (to say nothing of possible im- 
provement) with a daily consumption of, say, 60 grams of protein food, and suffi- 
cient non-nitrogenous food to yield 2,800 calories, why should he load up his 
system each day with twice this amount of protein food, with enough fats and 
carbohydrates to yield 3,500 calories plus? 

The result of Chittenden's researches demonstrates that the protein 
intake must be a little in excess of protein catabolism, as all of the pro- 
tein is not available and as this is a variable amount, depending on the 
proportion of animal and vegetable foods to their different degrees of 
digestibility and availability. Chittenden formulates the following table, 
showing the amount of food necessary to yield 60 grams of protein: 

CHITTENDEN'S TABLE 



Variety of Foods 


Protein Content 


Fuel Value 
in Calories 


^ lb. fresh lean beef (loin) 


60 grams 

60 

60 

60 « 

60 

60 " 

60 « 

60 « 

60 " 

60 

60 

60 « 

60 « 

60 " 

60 « 

60 

60 

60 

60 « 

60 « 

60 « 

60 

60 " 

60 « 

60 « 

60 « 

60 

60 « 


308 


9 hens' eggs 


720 


-f- lb. sweetbread 


660 


^ lb. fresh liver 


432 


-|- lb. lean smoked bacon 


1,820 
423 


^ lb. halibut steak 


3-^ lb. salt codfish (boneless) 


245 


2^ lbs. ovsters, solid 


506 


}/^ lb. American pale cheese 


1,027 


4 lbs. (2 quarts) of whole milk 


1,300 
1,550 
2,125 
1,665 
1,520 
2,381 
2,807 
963 


% lb. uncooked oatmeal 


lyi lbs. shredded wheat 

1 lb. uncooked macaroni 


1^ lbs. white wheat bread 


l}4: lbs. crackers 

1% lbs. flaked rice 


-f- lb. dried beans 


Ij4 lbs. baked beans 


1,125 


l-^ lb. dried peas 


827 


1}J lbs. potato chips 


5,728 
2,020 
1,138 
3,584 
4,600 
4 500 


^4 lb. almonds 


-^ lb. pine-nuts, pignolias 


12/^ lbs. peanuts 


10 lbs. bananas (edible portion) 


10 lbs. grapes 


11 lbs. lettuce 


990 


15 lbs. prunes 


5,550 
9,570 


33 lbs. apples , 





174 PKOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

Value of Meats as a Source of Nitrogen. — Chittenden, in discussing 
''the value of meat as food," after declaring that protein food is. the 
supply of nitrogen needed for the body, asks the question, ''What advan- 
tages do meats possess as a source of this nitrogen?" His answer v/as: 
"Meats represent a concentrated form of protein, their nitrogen is readily 
available, they are easily digestible, they have an agreeable flavor, they 
add variety to the diet, they contain extractives which have an exhila- 
rating and stimulating effect, they satisfy the pangs of hunger more 
completely and for a longer period than do the vegetable proteins. 

"There can be no question but that meats occupy a somewhat peculiar 
place in the category of dietetic articles. A close study of the dietetic 
customs of civilized people indicates that two distinct objects are ever 
kept clearly in view, viz. : the satisfying of the grosser needs of the body, 
the needs of general nutrition, and the satisfying of the needs of the 
higher functions of the central nervous system. Meats plainly share 
with foods derived from the vegetable kingdom the ability to minister 
to the former wants of the body, but in addition they have certain stimu- 
lating properties which distinguish them from the grosser vegetable foods. 
They might also in this respect be classed, perhaps, with such articles as 
tea, coffee, etc., in their power of ministering to the wants of the brain 
and nervous system. Sir William Roberts has well said that the strug- 
gle for existence, or rather for a higher and better existence, among 
civilized men, is almost exclusively a brain struggle; and that these 
brain foods, as they have been not inappropriately termed, must be 
regarded as a very important part of the equipment for that struggle, 
for if we compare, with our limited information, the general charac- 
teristics of the high-fed and the low-fed classes and races, we would no 
doubt perceive a broad distinction between them. In regard to bodily 
strength and longevity, the difference is inconsiderable, but in regard to 
mental qualities, the distinction is most marked. The high-fed classes 
and races display, on the whole, a richer vitality, more momentum and 
individuality of character and a greater brain power than their low-fed 
brethren, and they constitute a soil or breeding ground out of which 
eminent men arise." 

FISHER'S INVESTIGATIONS.— Prof. Irving Fisher, a co-worker of 
Chittenden's at Yale University, has conducted some interesting experi- 
ments emphasizing the effect of diet on endurance (7). In arranging 
the tests, a large variety of food and dishes commonly prepared in that 
locality was supplied, and the subjects were particularly enjoined to 
masticate thoroughly and even to keep liquid foods in the mouth until 



EFFECT OF PROTEIN DIET 



175 



well insalivated and to swallow only in response to almost compulsory 
inclination. The subjects for this experiment were nine in number and 
the experiment lasted four and a half months. The diet supplied at the 
beginning contained 28 grams of protein and had a fuel value of 2,830 
calories. ''The subjects were informed as to the protein content of the 
various articles of food and were requested to eat those foods poor in 
protein so long as the appetite evinced no disinclination to them. The 
exercises carried out as tests of physical endurance were as follows" : 

1. Rising on the toes as many times as possible. 

2. Deep knee bending as many times as possible. 

3. Raising the legs from the floor to a vertical position as many times 
as possible while lying flat upon the back. 

The following table will graphically present the mathematical result 
of these experiments: 

FISHER'S TEST DIET AND ENDURANCE 



I 





Calories 


Protein 


Strength 
Per cent 


Endur- 
ance 


Weight, 
Kilos 




Total 


Per cent 


Gr. 


Per cent 


At the beginning. . 
After 23^ months . 
After 41^ months . 


2,830 
2,670 
2,220 


100 
94 

78 


98 
82 
51 


100 
80 
52 


100 

104 

93 


100 
133 
189 


68.2 
67.3 
65.5 



Fisher's experimental findings are somewhat opposed to those of 
Chittenden. Chittenden's experiments evidenced an increase in strength; 
in the Fisher experiments it was endurance of the men which attracted 
attention and with proof that endurance was increased, while their 
strength varied very little either way. 

Fisher carried out some comparative endurance tests between sixteen 
meat eaters (students from Yale University) and thirty-two vegetarians 
connected with the Battle Creek Sanitarium. The latter had been vege- 
tarians from four to twenty years. They not only abstained from meat, 
but also from coflt'ee, tea and condiments, and they were also teetotalers 
and non-smokers. The endurance tests were as follows: 

1. Squatting on the heels and rising thence to upright position as 
many times as possible. 

2. Holding out the arms fully extended for as long a time as possible. 

The results are shown in the following table: 



176 PROTEIN AND NUTRTTTON 

FISHER'S COMPARATIVE ENDURANCE TESTS 



Meat Eaters 



Vegetarians 



Percentage of 
Difference 



Knee bendings 

Holding arms out (minutes) 



383 
10 



846 
49 



121% 
390% 



According to the result tabulated above, the standard of meat eaters 
is shown as 100, while the endurance of the vegetarians is from 121 to 
390, and we may therefore draw the conclusion that strength and endur- 
ance have nothing to do with the consumption of generous quantities 
of protein, as was formerly a matter of faith. Furthermore, it is an 
admitted fact that great endurance is possible on simple food of low 
protein value, in support of which we may cite the example of the 
Japanese and Arabs. 

BAELTZ'S INVESTIGATIONS AMONG THE JAPANESE.— Professor Baeltz,* 
a keen observer and one of the best authorities on the Japanese country 
and people, says ^ that the people of the lower classes in Japan who 
subsist almost entirely on carbohydrate foods are altogether of more 
powerful build than those of the upper classes who eat meat. It is well 
known to students of dietetics that the .Japanese for some thousand years 
past have been experimenting with vegetable and cereal foods, and at 
the present time the diet upon which the bulk of the Japanese people 
subsist is sufficient for the maintenance of an effective nitrogen equi- 
librium, as well as to keep them in a state of efficient nutrition. Pro- 
fessor Baeltz had two jinrikisha men in his employ, both powerful young 
fellows, aged twenty-two and twenty-five respectively, who had followed 
their calling for years. They were provided with an accurate amount 
of measured food, the chemical composition of which was ascertained by 
recognized men. These men received definite instructions: Every day 
for three weeks their duty was to drag a jinrikisha with Professor 
Baeltz, who weighed 176 pounds, a distance of twenty-five miles, run- 
ning all the time. This would seem to be an arduous task, but not more 
so than these men would willingly and readily undertake. Tt would be 
considered quite an undertaking to walk a distance of twenty-five miles 
every day for three weeks with an August sun at its best, but for these 

1 Baeltz was, for some years, body-physician to the late Mikado. 

2 Quoted bj' Dr. Albu in "Die Vegetarisclie Diilt." It should be observed that 
Dr, Albu writes against vegetarianism, but concedes that one may subsist on vegetarian 
diet, which is proved among other things by Baeltz's observations. 



I 



EFFECT OF PROTEIN DIET 177 

men to run this distance every day, and to drag a jinrikisha with a 
passenger weighing 176 poundsj is rather more than one would usually 
expect. 

During this experiment the men kept to their usual diet, which con- 
sisted of fats amounting to less than the proposed standard enunciated 
by Voit(8), while the contained protein fluctuated from between 60 to 
80 per cent of his postulate. Carbohydrates were provided in exceed- 
ingly large quantities in the form of rice, potatoes, barley, chestnuts, 
lily roots and other foodstuffs peculiar to the country. The men were 
weighed. One had gained half a pound and the other was the same as 
at the beginning. Professor Baeltz now told the men that they would 
be allowed a liberal allowance of meat, which quite delighted them, as 
meat to them was a luxury. The carbohydrate ration was cut down and 
a proportionate quantity of meat — not quite as much protein as the Voit 
standard, but a considerable amount — was allowed. The men ate with 
avidity, but after three days on the meat diet they importuned Professor 
Baeltz to discontinue the meat and to give it to them only upon con- 
clusion of their probation, because they felt fatigued and could not run 
so well as they did previous to taking meat. Baeltz then allowed them 
to return to their original carbohydrate dietary, with the same result as 
before — the one retained his weight, with perhaps a difference of 100 
grams, and the other gained about half a pound. 

Baeltz records an even greater feat of endurance on a smaller diet. 
Baeltz was driving from Tokio to Nikko, a distance of about sixty-eight 
and a half miles. It was midsummer and fearfully hot, and it took 
Baeltz from six o'clock in the evening until eight o'clock the following 
morning — fourteen hours — to make the distance. He says that, just as 
he was driving out of Tokio, he saw a Japanese sitting in a jinrikisha 
and asked him where he was going, l^ikko was likewise his destination 
and he was being pulled along by a man. He arrived in Kikko just half 
: an hour after Baeltz. Baeltz records that his driver had changed horses 
six times, and this Japanese jinrikisha man had dragged his compatriot, 
an adult weighing 119 pounds, a distance of sixty-eight and a half miles 
at a running pace in about fourteen and a half hours, and on a vegetable 
diet only. 

It is well known that the Japanese are physically a small people, yet 
they are capable of remarkable feats of strength and endurance, and as 
recent events have shown, they are full of courage and daring. A 
[Writer(9) in the British Medical Journal says: "The Japanese them- 
selves attribute their high average of physical strength to a plain and 



178 PEOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

frugal diet, and to a system of g;^Tnnastics, jiu-jitsu, -whicli includes a 
knowledge of anatomy, and of the internal and external use of water. 
In 1889 a commission was appointed to consider whether by a meat 
diet or by other means the stature of the Japanese race could be raised ; 
but the conclusion arrived at was that, seeing that their feats of strength 
and powers of endurance were superior to races much taller than them- 
selves, the lowness of their stature did not matter. Concerning the diet, 
they are frugal to a degree, partaking of rice at every meal. Japanese 
troops have often made record marches on diet consisting solely of a 
little rice. Vegetables and fruits are grown in abundance in Japan, 
and their value as a regular part of the dietary is realized with far more 
advantage than it is in this country. Indeed, a laborer is content to 
work a whole day on a dinner of tomatoes and cucumbers. Milk is 
scarce, because it does not pay to raise cows to produce milk alone, and 
the meat is not eaten." 

OTHER FOREIGN NATIONS NON-MEAT EATERS.— According to Sin- 
clair,^ the Hindu pattamars, carriers of dispatches, who eat only rice, 
run every day, passing from one to\vn to another, twenty leagues at 
least, and continue thus for weeks. Russian agriculturists, who live on 
vegetables, black bread, milk and garlic, work sixteen to eighteen hours 
per day, and their strength is said often to exceed that of the American 
sailors (10). The Norwegian peasants scarcely know of animal ali- 
mentation ; they cover, however, whilst accompanying the carriages of 
tourists, from three to four leagues, running without stopping. Modern 
Egyptian workmen and lx)atmen, who from time immemorial have fed 
almost exclusively on melons, onions, broad beans, lentils, dates and 
maize, have remarkable muscular strength(ll ). The miners of South 
America, very sober workmen, who do not eat meat, carry on their shoul- 
ders weights of 200 pounds, with which they mount twelve times a day, 
on an average, vertical ladders 60 to 80 meters high(12). According 
to H. Ranke, the woodcutters of Upper Bavaria feed almost exclusively 
on flour (1,100 to 1,200 grams per day) cooked with hogs' lard (90 
grams), without eggs or cheese; on Sundays only they have a little pork. 
They do, however, an enormous amount of work (13). The Turkish 
soldier is extraordinarily abstemious ; he drinks only water or lemonade, 
feeds on pillauf of rice and figs and scarcely touches meat. We know 
that his vigor is remarkable and his courage indomitable. 

We might learn a great deal from the Arabs with respect to those 

1 We extract the majority of the follcwing facts from the interesting work of 
Mrs. A. Kingsford (Thf^ses de Paris, 1880). 



I 



EFFECT OF PROTEIN DIET 179 

diseases which result from excessive meat eating. The French and 
Italians have long ago experienced the greatest difficulty in their attempts 
to subdue this brave and energetic people. They are of slender build, but 
their powers of endurance are remarkable. According to Auzimour(14) : 
*'They are slim and wiry people; their limbs are lithe and strong; their 
profile is more curved than straight. They live in tents which are far 
from sanitary. The frugality of the Arabs is just as far famed as that 
of the camel. Men often go on long journeys into the desert with only 
a bag of meal, some figs, a skin of water and some dates. With the meal 
the Arab makes his cakes, which, with his dates, are his provision for 
the day. They are hardy and resist disease." Dr. Auzimour says, "Ab- 
dominal wounds, with perforation of the intestines, heal without the 
use of antiseptics when the injured parts have been replaced. Wounds 
healing under such circumstances and without consequent blood poison- 
ing are a source of wonder to surgeons acquainted only with Euro- 
peans. Diseases of nutrition are almost unknown among them; ulcers 
and cancer of the stomach are very seldom met with, and if one comes 
across a case of summer diarrhea, it is generally because the sufi^erer has 
been eating too many melons. Appendicitis is very rare among the 
Arabs, and is entirely unknown among the vegetarian nomads." The 
experience of Dr. Auzimour is that Arabs who live in towns and who 
eat as Europeans do are no more resistant to these diseases than the 
Europeans. W^e are convinced that common stomach troubles and intes- 
tinal disorders quite often arise from fermentation caused by putrefying 
animal protein, as these complaints disappear like dew under the morn- 
ing sun on a low protein diet. 

Professor Maurel, of Toulouse, who served for thirty years as army 
surgeon in the French colonies, while in the tropics -made experiments 
in nutrition in consequence of which he has come to the conclusion 
that most of the so-called tropical diseases are caused through overeating, 
and particularly through excessive meat eating. In his work on nutri- 
tion (15) he arrives at the following conclusions: 

1. "That the majority of digestive disorders (dyspepsia, diarrhea, 
dysentery) which are so common in the tropics are partly to be ascribed 
to hypernutrition." 

2. "That overindulgence in animal foods is largely the cause of the 
liver disorders met with in the tropics." 

3. "That, finally, the increased richness of blood, which is due to the 
absorption of too large a quantity of food, particularly protein food — 



180 PEOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

which he has termed hypernutrition — constitutes a contributory cause of 
the fevers so prevalent in our colonies." 

STANDARD FOR PROTEIN REQUIREMENT IN DIETARY 

In attempting to formulate the standard for the requisite amount of 
protein in the dietary, we find no such definite and satisfactory basis for 
judgment as in the case of the total energy or fuel value of foods. Indi- 
cations are lacking that any kind of work necessarily increases the 
expenditure of fuel, or that the body can store up protein to anything 
like the extent that it stores up fuel in the form of fat; the feeding of 
protein above what is required for maintenance and body equilibrium 
increases only slightly the store of protein in the human economy. When 
one authority suggests an amount of protein but little above the mini- 
mum required for equilibrium, and another advocates a much higher 
amount, there is implied a difference of view regarding protein such as 
no longer exists with respect to the energy metabolism. The difference, 
it is true, is hardly so gi*eat as might appear from a casual examination 
of the proposed standards (16). According to the standard of Voit, 
Playfair and Gautier, protein contributes about 16 per cent of the fuel 
value of food; Atwater's experience suggests about 15 per cent; while 
Langworthy puts it at 12 per cent and Chittenden as low as 8I/2 per cent. 

Peschel undertook a personal experiment to determine the amount 
of protein necessary for his OAvn body; he weighed 169 pounds. He 
was guided by Rubner's work in nutrition which he considered of espe- 
cial value, and accepted his data as a working basis: 100 grams of fat, 
240 grams of starch, 249 grams of sugar, 770 grams of fresh muscle 
flesh free from fat, and that the nutrients could be substituted for one 
another for this purpose. Rubner teaches that "growth is a function of 
a cell ; it can be rendered latent by insufficient protein, but protein can- 
not raise the rapidity of growtli above the level set by nature." Peschel 
holds that a certain amount of protein is necessary to repair the waste 
of nitrogenous tissue which is continually going on, as well as to make 
up for the loss of portions of the epidermis, hair, nails, epithelial cells, 
etc His investigations were undertaken at the suggestion and under 
the direction of von Noorden to determine the exact amount of protein 
necessary fbr his body metabolism. He ingested a ration consisting of 
bread, rice, potatoes, butter, sugar, tea, etc., but no meat. The analysis 
of his ration showed that he was partaking of 40 grams of protein in a 
diet which yielded 3,640 calories. On the fifth day he reached his 



STANDARD FOR PROTEIN REQUIREMENT IN DIETARY 181 

nitrogenous equilibrium, that is to say, he was ingesting sufficient pro- 
tein for the needs of the bodj, and the organism was sufficiently supplied 
with carbohydrates and fats. He soon reduced the protein to 32 grams 
per day, the caloric value of his ration then being 3,600 calories, but 
the organism continued to lose nitrogen on a protein intake of only 32 
grams. He therefore concluded that Voit's standard for protein was far 
above the amount actually needed, provided the organism is well sup- 
plied with fats and carbohydrates: 

THE NITROGEN REQUIRED FOR MAINTENANCE 



Investigator 


Body 

Weight, 

Kilos 


Calories 
per 
Kilo 


Protein 

per Kilo, 

Grams 


Nitrogen 

in Food, 

Grams 


Protein 

in Food, 

Grams 


Chittenden's physiolog-| 

ical minimum J 

Voit's Standard 

Maurel's Standard 

Peschsel 


70 

70 
70 

77 


1 Varies 1 

jwith work] 

40 

46 


.50 

1.70 

1.50 

.50 


5.50 

19.10 

16.83 

6.30 


34 

119 

105 

40 



t 



Students who have carried out experimental researches to determine 
the amount of nitrogenous food necessary for body metabolism are 
agreed that individuals can live for some time with no nitrogenous food, 
and that they can live for a time with no food at all; but such experi- 
ments are of no especial physiological value, other than furnishing evi- 
dence to determine, from the metabolism of nitrogen, on a nitrogen-free 
diet or during starvation, the amount of protein needed daily to prevent 
the disintegration of the body tissues. The observations of Chittenden, 
Voit, Maurel, Peschel and others, with which Tibbies, who has given this 
subject much attention, is in complete accord, clearly demonstrate that it 
is possible to maintain life, keep the body in nitrogen equilibrium and 
to do a certain amount of work on a diet having the standard caloric 
value, but containing a very much smaller amount of protein than is 
usually given in standard dietaries. 

Jones closely followed an investigation in the case of Schmehl. This 
man walked 500 miles in six days, or an average of 83^ miles per day, 
and subsisted on a ration consisting of beefsteak, eggs, beef tea, cham- 
pagne and aerated waters. Tibbies says, "The severe and strenuous 
exertion caused an increased excretion of nitrogen, phosphoric acid and 
sulphuric acid. On the first day of the walk, the urea output amounted 
to 63 grams, on the last day to 39 grams, so that the excretion gradually 

diminished during the 500-mile walk. The fact should not be lost sight 
112 



182 PEOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

of that the diet influences the amount of urea excreted. A man of ordi- 
nary stature, in the state of equilibrium and partaking of an ordinary 
mixed diet, excretes daily from 5 to 40 grams, or an average of 33 grams 
of urea. When the diet is poor in protein, it may drop to from 15 to 
20 grams, but when it is rich in protein, the output may rise to 90 or 
100 grams per day." 

Atwater and Sherman record an investigation carried out upon 
Miller, who succeeded in riding 2,007 miles in six days without showing 
signs of physical or mental fatigue at the end of the journey. Miller 
was twenty-four years old and the fuel value of his ration was 50 per 
cent above that of the standard dietaries, showing from 169 to 211 grams 
of protein daily. Estimates were made of the food consumed. The 
urine and feces were analyzed and showed that the protein metabolized 
in his body was more than that contained in his food. 

Weston, the American pedestrian, was used for an experiment to 
determine his nitrogenous equilibrium. He consumed more protein per 
day than Miller. This investigation was studied by Flint (17) and 
Pavy(18), who arrived at different conclusions as to the results in this 
case. Flint avers that severe muscular exertion increases the excretion 
of nitrogen. 

The tables on p. 183, compiled by Flint, show the nitrogen income 
and outgo before, during and after the walk. 

In the study of this subject, the tabulated experiments of Atwater(19) 
and his associates are enlightening,^ These experiments were all carried 
on with the subject in the respiratory calorimeter. The table reports 
the amount of food ingested, i.e., the sum total of food available for tissue 
building and for the production of energy. In addition, the table shows 
the available energy of the food digested, i.e., the difference between the 
total heat of combustion and the heat of combustion of the unoxidized 
matter in feces and urine, and also the loss or gain of protein or fat 
to the body. 

Other data shown are the average daily amount of available protein 
and energy derived from the food, the amount required by the body, the 
amount required by the body when at rest, and again when engaged in 
vigorous muscular work. 

The dietary standards previously suggested by careful investigators 
have served their purpose, but they must of necessity undergo various 
changes as the subject becomes more accurately and scientifically studied. 

1 See Table, page 184. 



STANDARD FOR PROTEIN REQUIREMENT IN DIETARY 183 

FLINT'S OBSERVATIONS ON THE EFFECTS OF THE FIVE-DAY PEDES- 
TRIAN FEAT PERFORMED BY WESTON 

Before the Walk 





Weight 


Temper- 






Nitrogen 


Nitrogen 


Excess or 




of Body, 


ature, 


Pulse 


Miles 


m 


in 


Deficiency 




Nude, 


Deg. 




Walked 


Ingesta, 


Egesta, 


in Nitrogen 




Lbs. 


Fahr. 






Grains 


Grains 


Egesta, 
Grains 


First Day 


120.5 


99.7 


75 


15 


361.22 


323.26 


- 37.96 


Second Dav.. . . 


12L25 


98.4 


73 


5 


288.35 


301.18 


+ 12.83 


Third Day 


120 


98.0 


71 


5 


272.27 


330.36 


+ 58.09 


Fourth Day.. . . 


118.5 


99.1 


78 


15 


335.01 


300.57 


- 34.44 


Fifth Day 


119.2 


99.5 


93 


1 


440.43 


320.06 


-120.37 



During the Walk 





Weight 


Temper- 






Nitrogen 


Nitrogen 


Excess or 




of Body, 


ature, 




Miles 


in 


m 


Deficiency 




Nude, 


Deg. 


Pulse 


Walked 


Ingesta, 


Egesta, 


in Nitrogen 




Lbs. 


Fahr. 






Grains 


Grains 


Egesta, 
Grains 


First Dav 


116.5 


95.3 


98 


80 


151.55 


357.10 


+205.55 


Second Dav.. . . 


116.25 


94.8 


93 


48 


265.92 


370.64 


+ 104.72 


Third Day 


115 


96.6 


109 


92 


228.61 


397.58 


+ 168.97 


Fourth Day.. . , 


114 


96.6 


68 


57 


144.70 


348.53 


+203.83 


Fifth Day 


115.75 


97.9 


80 


40.5 


383.04 


332.77 


- 50.27 



After the Walk 





Weight 


Temper- 






Nitrogen 


Nitrogen 


Excess or 




of Body, 


ature, 




Miles 


in 


in 


Deficiency 




Nude, 


Deg. 


Pulse 


Walked 


Ingesta, 


Egesta, 


in Nitrogen 




Lbs. 


Fahr. 






Grains 


Grains 


Egesta, 
Grains 


First Day 


118 


98.6 


76 


2 


385.65 


295.70 


- 89.95 


Second Day. . . . 


120.25 


98.4 


73 


2 


499.10 


358.81 


-140.29 


Third Day 


120.25 


99.3 


70 


2 


394.83 


409.87 


+ 15.04 


Fourth Day 


123.5 


98.8 


78 


2 


641.71 


382.89 


-258.82 


Fifth Day 


120.75 


97.5 


76.5 


3 


283.35 


418.49 


+ 135.14 



184 . PKOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

INFLUENCE OF WORK ON THE FOOD REQUIREE (ATWATER) 



Character and Duration 
OF THE Experiment 


Nitrogen 
(Grams) 


Carbon 
(Grams) 


Energy 
(Calor.) 


Protein 
(Nx6.25) 
(Grams) 


Fat 
(Grams) 


(a) Rest Experiments 
E. 0. : Eleven experiments, aver- 
age of 37 days: 
In digested food 


17.7 
18.5 


231.5 

218.6 


2,459 
2,297 


111 
116 




In material oxidized 




Gain (+) or loss (— ) to 
the body 


-.8 


-1-12.9 




-5 


+20 






0. F. T. : One experiment, aver- 
age of 5 days: 
In digested food 


14.4 
13.7 


216.5 
219.9 


2,442 
2,505 


90 
86 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


+.7 


-3.4 




+4 


-7 


A. W. S.: Three experiments, 
average of 9 days: 
In digested food 


14.7 
13.7 


214.3 
229.1 


2,344 
2,293 


92 
86 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


-M.O 


-14.8 




+6 


-24 


J. F. S.r Three experiments, 
average of 9 days: 
In digested food 


15.4 
15.7 


228.7 
207.8 


2,381 
2,117 


96 
98 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


-.3 


+20.9 




-2 


+29 


Total: Eighteen experiments, 

average of 60 days' rest: 

In digested food 


16.6 
16.9 


227.3 

218.7 


2,428 
2,285 


104 
106 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


-.3 


+8.6 




-2 


+13 


(b) Work Experiments 
E. 0. : Two experiments, average 
of 8 days: 
In food digested 


17.6 
17.3 


326.2 
358.9 


2,462 
3,865 


110 
108 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


+.3 


-32.7 




+2 


-43 


A. W. S. : One experiment, aver- 
age of 3 days 


14.8 
14.1 


223.6 
371.5 


2 505 
4;225 


92 

88 




In food digested 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


+.7 


-147.9 




+4 


-196 



HIGH VERSUS LOW PROTEIN DIET 



185 



INFLUENCE OF WORK ON THE FOOD REQUIRED (ATWATER) 

Continued 



Character and Duration 
OF THE Experiment 


Nitrogen 
(Grams) 


Carbon 

(Grams) 


Energy 
(Calor.) 


Protein 
(Nx6.25) 
(Grams) 


Fat 
(Grams) 


J. F. S.: Four experiments, aver- 
age of 12 days: 
In food digested 


15.0 
16.0 


306.4 
330.4 


3,251 
3,547 


94 
100 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


-1.0 


-24.0 




-6 


-27 


Total: Seven experiments, 23 
• working days' average: 
In food digested 


15.9 
16.2 


302.5 
345.7 


3,227 
3,759 


99 
101 




In material oxidized 




Gain or loss to the body . 


-.3 


-43.2 




-2 


-55 



HIGH VERSUS LOW PROTEIN DIET 

We will now present, from Sherman's (16) summary of the subject, 
some of the arguments which have been advanced ip favor of a high pro- 
tein and of a low protein diet. 

"Liebig believed that fats and carbohydrates were turned in the body 
primarily to supply it with warmth, and that protein alone served as the 
source of muscular work and other forms of tissue activity. He there- 
fore classed the non-nitrogenous as "respiratory" and the nitrogenous as 
"plastic" foodstuffs, and treated the proteins as playing a "nobler" part 
in nutrition than can be accredited to either fat or carbohydrate. 
Although it was soon demonstrated that carbohydrates and fats as well 
as protein serve the body in the production of muscular energy, yet the 
influence of Liebig's teaching, and of the great attention given to pro- 
tein in Voit's classical researches on nutrition, together with the fact 
that protein is the most prominent constituent of protoplasm, has resulted 
in a strong tendency to associate high protein feeding with increased 
stamina and muscular power. 

The reasoning of those who appreciate the results of the more recent 
experimental work, and yet believe the general attitude of Liebig and 
Volt to have been largely sustained by experience, is well expressed by 
von Noorden, who wrote (20) : "The dietary habits of peoples are the 
results of biological laws, and it would seem that the action of these 
laws, extending through the thousands of years of existence of the species, 



186 PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

would have resulted in the establishment of suitable habits regarding the 
amounts of protein consumed. The data gathered by Voit may be taken 
as showing that this normal habit involves the consumption of about 
105 grams of digestible protein per day, a smaller protein consumption 
being usually associated with weak individuals or inactive peoples. 
While men can maintain equilibrium on less, still it can rightly be said 
that a liberal protein consumption makes for a full development of the 
man. A single individual may for years, or even decades, offend against 
this biological law unpunished. When, however, the small consumption 
of protein continues for generations, there results a weak race." Von 
Noorden, however, is careful to add: "On the other hand, the impor- 
tance of protein must not be overestimated. A diet is not necessarily 
good because the amount of protein is right; it must have the proper 
proportions of the non-nitrogenoiis nutrients as well, since the protein 
is not to be depended upon for the necessary fuel value. Better some- 
what less protein with a liberal amount of total food, than more protein 
with insufficient fuel value; the latter brings a rapid loss of strength, 
the former can be endured very well, at least for a long time, and very 
likely throughout the life of the individual." 

Hutchison(21) advances similar views in regard to the advantage of 
a liberal protein dief and definitely pointed out that generous protein 
feeding resulted in more vigorous health and increased resistance. 

Chittenden, in 1905(22), arrived at precisely the opposite conclu- 
sion: "The products of protein metabolism are a constant menace to 
the well-being of the body, and any excess of protein over what the 
body actually needs is likely to be directly injurious, and at best puts 
an unnecessary and useless strain upon the liver and kidneys." Chit- 
tenden has satisfied himself, by his numerous and long-continued experi- 
ments, that both physical and mental stamina are promoted by decreasing 
the amount of protein in the food. Greater freedom from fatigue, 
greater aptitude for work, greater freedom from minor ailments, have 
gradually become associated in the writer's mind with this lowered pro- 
tein metabolism and general condition of physiological economy. "The 
ordinary professional man who leads an active and even strenuous life, 
with its burden of care and responsibility, need not clog his system and 
inhibit his power for work by the ingestion of any such quantities of 
protein food as the ordinary dietetic standards call for." 

Although Hutchison (23) does not refute his early teaching in regard 
to the views of a high protein diet, he acknowledges the importance of 
Chittenden's work and states that such a diet cannot be advocated as 



HIGH VERSUS LOW PROTEIK DIET 187 

being entirely satisfactory. In his mor*) recent work he declares (24) that 
in a diet yielding 3,000 calories, the normal quantity of protein should 
be about 75 gi-ams. This is somewhat in excess of the results of Chit- 
tenden's experiments, but is in accord with the relation of protein to 
calories in mothers' milk. This proportion Hutchison considers nature's 
teaching concerning the normal balance of nitrogenous and non-nitrog- 
enous food for man. 

Folin(25) holds that the argument for a high protein diet, based on 
the fact that large amounts of protein are commonly eaten by those who 
can afford it, can be equally well applied to the dietetic use of alcoholic 
beverages and is no more convincing in one case than in the other; 
while, on the other hand, study of protein metabolism has given rather 
strong evidence that the body has no need of such amounts as are com- 
monly eaten, for when protein is fed the nitrogen which it contains is 
usually eliminated more quickly than the carbon, and further study indi- 
cates that a considerable part of the nitrogen absorbed from the ali- 
mentary tract never reaches the tissues at all, but is converted into urea 
on its first passage through the liver. 

Protein Diet and the Nitrogen Equilibrium. — The loss of body nitrogen 
which occurs in the early periods of restricted protein feeding, and which 
was not determined nor specifically discussed by Chittenden, is treated 
by Folin as follows : 

"All the living protoplasm in the animal organism is suspended in a 
fluid very rich in protein, and on account of the habitual use of more 
nitrogenous food than the tissues can use as protein, the organism is 
ordinarily in possession of approximately the maximum amount of reserve 
protein in solution that it can advantageously retain. When the supply 
of food protein is stopped, the excess of reserve protein inside the 
organism is still suificient to cause a rather large destruction of protein 
during the first day or two of protein starvation, and after that the pro- 
tein catabolism is very small, provided sufficient non-nitrogenous food is 
available. But even then, and for many days thereafter, the protoplasm 
of the tissues has still an abundant supply of dissolved protein, and the 
normal activity of such tissues as the muscles is not at all impaired or 
diminished." 

Wlien 30 or 40 grams of nitrogen have been lost by an average-sized 
man during a week or more of abstinence from nitrogenous food (but 
with an abundance of carbohydrate and fat), the living muscle tissues 
are still well supplied with all the protein that they can use. That this 
is so is indicated, on the one hand, by the unchanged creatinin elimina- 



188 PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

tion, and on the other by the fact that one experiences no feeling of 
unusual fatigue or of inability to do one's customary work. Because 
the organism at the end of such an experiment still has an abundance 
of available protein in the nutritive fluids, it is at once seemingly waste- 
ful with nitrogen when a return is made to nitrogenous food. This is 
why only gradually, and only under prolonged pressure of an excessive 
supply of food, protein again acquires its original maximum store of 
this reserve material. 

If the interpretation just given for the phenomenon of nitrogen 
equilibrium is correct, it constitutes at the same time a definite reason 
why the so-called standard diets are unnecessarily rich in protein. Nitro- 
gen enough to provide liberally for the endogenous metabolism and for 
the maintenance of a sufficient supply of the reserve protein is shown 
to be necessary; but it ought neither to be necessary nor advantageous 
for the organism to split off and remove large quantities of nitrogen 
which it can neither use nor store up as reserve material. In the case 
of carnivorous animals, the uncertainty of the food supply has evidently 
led to the development of a capacity to store a certain amount of pro- 
tein in the form of increased muscle substance, but in man this capacity 
seems not to exist. The slowness with which the normal human organism 
stores nitrogen after having lost only very moderate amounts does not 
mean that the human organism can replace lost muscle tissue only slowly 
and with difficulty. When the organism really has suffered a loss of 
such tissue, as, for example, during typhoid fever, we know that during 
convalescence there is an astonishingly rapid recovery of weight and a 
correspondingly extensive retention of nitrogen. 

In the light of the theory developed from Folin's teaching concern- 
ing the double nature of protein metabolism and the explanation of the 
phenomenon of nitrogen equilibrium, the following objection can perhaps 
be made to the use of large quantities of protein : the excess of nitrogen 
furnished with the food is normally quickly converted into urea and 
eliminated, and is therefore normally harmless. The continuous ex- 
cessive use of protein may lead, however, to an accumulation of a larger 
amount of reserve protein than the organism can with advantage retain 
in its fluid media. It is entirely possible that the continuous main- 
tenance of such an unnecessarily large supply of unorganized reserve 
material may sooner or later weaken one or another or all of the living 
tissues. At any rate, it seems scarcely conceivable that the human organ- 
ism, having all the time access to food, can gain in efficiency on account 
of such an excess of stored protein. The carrying of excessive quantities 



HIGH VERSUS LOW PROTEIN DIET 189 

of fat is considered as an impediment; the carrying of excessive quanti- 
ties of unorganized protein may be none the less so because more common 
and less strikingly apparent (26). 

Halliburton (27), in discussing the work of Chittenden and of Folin, 
concedes that '"the prevalence of dyspeptic troubles and uric acid disorders 
(among the English-speaking peoples) should make us hesitate before 
we conclude that our diet has reached the stage of perfection, and should 
rather lead us to admit that the majority of well-to-do people eat too 
much protein" ; but, he adds, "Any change in the practice of years and 
of generations should be accomplished gradually, not suddenly. It is 
well known that the liver is the largest organ we possess, and one of its 
functions is to convert nitrogenous metabolites, which may be harmful, 
into urea, which is harmless and easily disposed of, and one may gain 
comfort from the reflection that the organ is adequate in health to deal 
with large quantities of material. If all of us were immediately to 
reduce our diet to the Chittenden level, we might be living perilously 
near the margin; any unusual strain, such as privation or a severe ill- 
ness, would then find us without any reserve of nutrient energy, and 
we should probably suffer more severely in consequence." 

Benedict (28), after many years' experience in feeding, favors the 
use of liberal quantities of protein, and says, "While men may for some 
months reduce the proportion of protein in their diet very markedly 
and apparently suffer no deleterious consequences, yet, nevertheless, a 
permanent reduction of the protein beyond that found to be the normal 
amount for man is not without possible danger. The fact that a subject 
can so adjust an artificial diet as to obtain nitrogenous equilibrium with 
an excretion of nitrogen amounting to about two or three grams per day 
is no logical argument for the permanent reduction of the nitrogen in 
food for the period of a lifetime. Dietary studies, all over the world, 
show that in those communities where productive power, enterprise and 
civilization are at their highest, man has instinctively and independently 
selected liberal rather than small quantities of protein." 

A similar position is taken by Meltzer(29), who compares the appe- 
tite for a liberal surplus of protein with the liberal way in which the 
body is provided with organs and tissues for nearly all of its functions, 
and concludes that, "valuable as the facts which Chittenden and his 
co-laborer found may be, they do not make obvious their theory that 
the minimum supply is the optimum — the ideal." The bodily health 
and vigor which people with one kidney still enjoy does not make the 
possession of only one kidney an ideal condition. 



190 PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

"The finding that the accepted standard of protein diet can be reduced 
to one-half can be compared with the finding that the inspired oxygen 
can be reduced to one-half without aftecting the health and comfort of 
the individual, but no one deduces from the latter fact that the breathing 
of air so rarefied would be the ideal. The storing away of protein, like 
the storing away of glycogen and fat, for use in expected and unexpected 
exceptional conditions is exactly like the superabundance of tissues in 
an organ of an animal, or like an extra beam in the support of a building 
or a bridge — a factor of safety. We therefore believe that with regard 
to the function of supply of tissues and energy by means of protein food 
nature meant it should be governed by the same principle of affluence 
which governs the entire construction of the animal for the safety of its 
life and the perpetuation of its species." 

After considering the arguments of Benedict and of Meltzer, it is 
noteworthy that in his later book Chittenden (30) says: "It is certainly 
just as plausible to assume that increase in the consumption of protein 
food follows in the footsteps of commercial and other forms of pros- 
perity, as to argue that prosperity or mental and physical development 
are the result of an increased intake of protein food. Protein foods are 
usually costly and the ability of a community to indulge freely in this 
form of dietetic luxury depends in large measure upon its commercial 
prosperity." Moreover, Chittenden contends that his allowance of (»0 
grams of protein per day for a man of average size is a perfectly trust- 
worthy figure, with a reasonable margin of safety; that dietetic require- 
ments, and standard dietaries, are not to be founded upon the so-called 
cravings of appetite, but upon reason and intelligence reonforced by 
definite knowledge of the real necessities of the bodily machinery. 

"We must ever be mindful of the fact, so many times expressed, that 
protein does not undergo complete oxidation in the body to simple gaseous 
products like the non-nitrogenous food, but that there is left behind a 
residue not so easily disposed of, and that there are many suggestions 
of improvement in bodily health, of greater efficiency in working power 
and of greater freedom from disease, in a system of dietetics which aims 
to meet the physiological needs of the body without undue waste of 
energy and unnecessary drain Tipon the functions of digestion, absorp- 
tion, excretion and metabolism in general." 

Reduction of Protein Dietary Necessary. — The well-to-do families and 
those living in luxury should especially avoid the excessive and exclusive 
ingestion of foods from the animal kingdom. There are tables in some 
families from which vegetables are almost entirely excluded, because it 



HIGH VERSUS LOW PROTEIN DIET 191 

is said tliej are not sufficiently nourishing or because they do not make 
a big enough show, or because they do not satisfy palates accustomed to 
animal foods; sometimes because their preparation requires more pains- 
taking care and time than the housewife or cook, often from indolence, 
cares to give them. Again, some individuals seem to think that an 
excess of nitrogenous alimentation will make up for any deficiency, in- 
tentional or otlierwise, of vegetable foods. This is a very dangerous error. 

On such a dietary children are slow in development, nervous, caco- 
chymic and eczematous. In later life they will be subjects of rheumatism, 
gout, calculi and nervous disorders. There is no question in our mind 
but that the degeneracy noted in many well-to-do families is due wholly, 
or in part, to a dietary composed too exclusively of foods from the ani- 
mal kingdom. For this reason, which we cannot too strongly emphasize, 
we ought not to further encourage this tendency by replacing beef and 
mutton, roast or boiled, by pork, butcher's meat, hash, game, preserved 
fish, spiced stews, salt or smoked meats, by meat of animals too young 
and by fermented cheeses with the necessary accompaniment of bitters, 
stimulants, spices, wines, liqueurs, coffee, tea, etc. Such a dietary, 
beyond question, augments every sort of disorder of health, leads to race 
degeneracy and decimates families. 

It is beyond question that the dietary habit of well-to-do people, 
especially Americans, and the dietary standards which have been gen- 
erally accepted in the past, tend to be decidedly liberal with respect to 
protein. The custom of physicians and dietitians has been to prescribe 
protein in quantities which may be believed to be beneficial, but it is 
known to a certainty that it is not necessary in the amounts usually 
allowed. 

Effect of Increased Nitrogen Diet on Kidneys. — Careful observers have 
proved that half the standard allowance of protein has amply met the 
demands of the body for nitrogen, but it has also been shown that any- 
thing more than the amount necessary for the formation and repair and 
wear and tear of muscular tissues is rapidly disintegrated and the urea 
moiety thrown out of the body; and it is further claimed that the addi- 
tional amount which is usually consumed is harmful to the organism 
by throwing extra work upon the kidneys to excrete it. It is also claimed 
that this extra work thrown on the organs of elimination in turn is the 
cause of gout, migraine and kindred ailments. 

It is a physiological fact that nitrogen may be speedily eliminated, 
ai'.d it has been demonstrated that the amount of nitrogen metabolized 
is in proportion to the amount consumed. We have already shown that 



192 PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

the amount of urea excreted with an ordinary mixed ration varies from 
33 to 37 grams daily; but when an extra amount of protein is ingested 
the excretion of urea may rise to 50, 60 or even 100 grams per day. 
On a non-protein diet for several days' duration the excretion of urea 
may sink to 9 grams. On a diet poor in protein it may drop to 15 or 
'20 gTams. 

The function of the kidneys is that of elimination, so that the excre- 
tion of urea in moderate quantities is not injurious. It may be granted 
that if the function of the kidneys is defective, there will be a retention 
of urea or other nitrogenous waste products in the body and the organism 
will suffer accordingly. Yet, on the other hand, there are certain sec- 
tions of the earth where the inhabitants live for months upon flesh, fish 
and fowl, and they do not appear to suffer more than Americans or Euro- 
peans who live on a mixed diet. It is known that carnivorous animals 
subsist entirely on flesh, and there is no evidence that they suffer from 
disease of the kidneys, from the overwork of their organs. Moreover, 
it has been satisfactorily demonstrated that when the amount of protein 
in their food sinks below the normal level, they soon begin to suffer from 
digestive disturbances. 

Effect of Protein Diet on Strength and Endurance — effect of low 
PROTEIN DIET OX ANIMALS— Munk of Berlin (31) made a series of 
observations to determine the effects of a low protein diet on dogs; he 
observed that a ration poor in protein caused disturbances of the organ- 
ism, seriously interfering with assimilation; the absorption of fat was 
the most disturbed, that of protein next, and that of carbohydrates the 
least molested of all. The animals did not recover their nitrogenous and 
nutritional equilibrium until their protein ration was increased. Wlien 
they were allowed skim milk, beans or other nitrogenous food, a distinct 
improvement in their condition was noticeable. It is well known to the 
farmer that bacon from pigs fattened on a low protein diet is poor in 
quality. It is also well known that the milk of cows fed on a ration 
deficient in protein is poor in fat ; the cows become thin, their coats harsh, 
and they present an ill-fed and ill-kept appearance. 

Observations of the effects of the different food elements on man are 
confirmed by these experiments upon lower animals. Although it is 
known that individuals can live and continue to keep up both health 
and work for months on a diet poor in protein, nevertheless this course 
cannot be continued for an indefinite period. After a time vitality is 
lowered, resistance to disease is weakened, the activity of the body is 
lessened and the powers of endurance are stunted. Both careful obser- 



HIGH VEESUS LOW PR0TEI:N" DIET 193 

vation and experience point to the disadvantages of a low protein 
diet. 

The expenditure of energy is required by muscular work, and to this 
end more fuel must be consumed. It has been demonstrated that for the 
production of energy, protein, fat and carbohydrate can be interchanged 
in a definite proportion. It has also been demonstrated that the increased 
excretion of nitrogen during and after muscular work is not in propor- 
tion to the amount of work. On the contrary, the energy expended in 
doing work is derived in great part from non-nitrogenous foods. 

It is evident, therefore, to the careful student of dietetics that when 
extra work is to be performed a more liberal allowance of fat and carbo- 
hydrate must be added to the ration. But this point is not settled beyond 
dispute, since it has been the custom for ages past to increase the total 
food protein in proportion to the extra work to be done. However, from 
the viewpoint of endurance it is generally accepted as a fact that men 
who partake liberally of animal foods are more powerful and have 
greater staying qualities than those who consume little meat (32). The 
carnivora are more powerful and energetic than the herbivora. The 
lion or tiger is more vicious than the deer or elk. "Horses fed on beans 
or oats have more spirit and endurance than those fed on hay or grass." 
It is an indisputable fact, nevertheless, that feats of endurance can be 
performed on a purely vegetarian diet; but this may not necessarily be 
deficient in protein, so, after all, it makes no difference whether the pro- 
tein is taken from the animal or vegetable kingdom. 

The difference between an animal fed on a highly nitrogenous diet 
and one supplied with little nitrogen is the difference between a steam 
engine at half pressure and one which is producing its full horse power. 
It is the difference between a tiger pacing its cage and a cow lying upon 
the grass; both are healthy, but the type or degree of health is very 
different in the two animals. "A hunted deer," says Haughton, "will 
outrun a leopard in a fair and open chase, because the work supplied to 
its muscles by the vegetable food is capable of being given out continu- 
ously for a long period of time, but in a sudden rush at a near distance, 
the leopard will, without doubt, overtake the deer, because its flesh food 
stores up in the body a reserve or force capable of being given out 
instantaneously in the form of exceedingly rapid muscular action." 

PKOTEIN DIET AND OCCUPATION.— Before concluding this subject, 
we desire to call attention to the disadvantages of a purely vegetable 
diet, which affects the outdoor laborer much less than the one engaged 
in sedentary vocations. The laborer or lumberjack actually requires a 



194 PROTEIK AND KUTRITIOK 

large amount of carbohydrate food to enable him to perform his muscular 
work, and in partaking of large quantities of vegetable foods for this 
purpose he is pretty sure to get as much protein as his body requires. 
The free action of the skin, too, from his strenuous exertions carries 
off from the body the excess of water which his diet contains, while his 
active work in the open air induces an appetite for large meals. With 
the sedentary worker the case is different. He requires much less carbo- 
hydrate food than the laborer taking strenuous exercise in the open air, 
while his body demands considerable protein. In endeavoring to obtain 
from purely vegetable sources a sufficiency of nitrogenous food, he would 
inevitably overburden his diet with an excess of non-nitrogenous foods, 
which his comparatively feeble digestion would be unable to metabolize, 
while his skin would not act, as in the case of the laborer, to rid the 
body of the surplus water which such a diet would contain. For these 
reasons, a man of sedentary occupations is much less likely to be a suc- 
cessful example of vegetarianism than one who leads an active life. 

THE AMINO-ACIDS IN ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE PROTEINS.— In study- 
ing the physiology of absorption (Volume I, Chapter VI) we learned' 
that all proteins, whether from the vegetable or animal kingdom, consist 
of amino-acids(33). The amino-acids of animal proteins are identical 
with those of vegetable proteins, and therefore it would appear a priori 
that there can be little difference in their value upon the organism. It 
is a remarkable fact that the most valuable vegetable proteins are defi- 
cient in flavoring agents, while these bodies in meat, fowl and fish add 
to their palatability. 

Minimum Protein Requirement to Maintain Nitrogen Equilibrium The 

evidence advanced by some observers that the amount of protein pre- 
scribed in standard diet is injurious to the organism is not conclusive, 
but there is ample evidence of the bad effects of a long-continued diet 
of low protein value. Cohnheim holds that Chittenden's experiments 
do not prove that men eat too much protein, believing that they can live 
for a time upon a smaller amount of protein than usual. He believes 
that most men cannot continue to live upon an allowance of from 50 to 
60 grams of protein and keep in good health. With Caspari and Loewi 
he holds that a healthy, fiill-grown man requires at least 80 grams of 
protein daily, and this is a considerable reduction from the standard 
diet. We can safely take Chittenden's experiments as the protein mini- 
mum of the so-called standard dietaries which show that the customary 
or average protein consumption of the most successful nations represents 
the necessary amount or optimum protein consumption, but Folin holds 



HIGH VERSUS LOW PROTEIN DIET 195 

to the view that the protein optimum lies somewhere between these two 
points. 

The minimum ration of protein to secure nitrogenous equilibrium 
was fixed by Voit at 118 grams in tw^entj-four hours, while Miller 
asserts that the minimum nitrogenous ration has been fixed too high, 
and that 60 grams of protein should be considered the minimum. This 
coincides with the teaching of Chittenden, who agrees that 60 grams of 
protein are insufficient ; and again Rubner believes the daily necessary 
potential would be maintained by 35 grams of protein for an adult in 
whom growth was complete. Klemperer was able to maintain nitrogenous 
equilibrium on 33 grams of protein by giving at the same time a liberal 
allowance of fats and carbohydrates. 

Siven, in his interesting work(34), and Peschel, in his inaugural 
address (35), prove that nitrogenous equilibrium may be secured with 
an alimentation containing only 40 grams of protein, and that, under 
these conditions, the organism does not draw in the slightest manner 
upon its own protein, provided the quantity of calories lacking is made 
up by a liberal allowance of fats and carbohydrates. 

Hutchison (36), although acknowledging that Chittenden's results 
show what men can exist upon, holds that their general application would 
be attended with risk. In solving the problem of protein requirements, 
Hutchison makes an interesting comparison between the diet of an adult 
and that of a nursing infant. The daily supply of milk taken by an 
infant six months of age contains about 14 grams of protein, furnishing 
578 calories; the average energy value of the food of an adult, on the 
other hand, equals 3,000 calories, i.e., the standard of protein, in the 
same proportion, would be about 75 grams, the infant's growth being 
offset by the daily expenditure of energy in the routine life of an adult. 
Halliburton's results coincide with the results of Chittenden's experi- 
ments with metabolism and he points out the danger of living too near 
the protein minimum. 

Safety Standard in Diet. — It may be definitely concluded that the 
body must have the minimum of protein, an increased proportion being 
of value because of its action as a stimulant to metabolism and as an 
accessible source of energy ; that the ingestion of protein in larger amounts 
than Chittenden's standard is advisable, since it increases resistance to 
disease, probably due to the manufacture of antibodies resulting from 
the stimulation of the body to this end. The fact tliat those who are 
forced by their lack of means to live on a low protein diet are more sus- 
ceptible to disease has long been accepted. A definite quantity to be 



196 PEOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

known as the protein optimum cannot be fixed, for it is doubtless influ- 
enced in the case of every individual by the personal equation. The 
pivot on which the protein problem rests is the question of the desirabil- 
ity of storing proteins and of maintaining them on a high level or on a 
low level. For certain individuals a high level is better, for others a low 
level, on the condition that the alimentary organs are able to digest and 
assimilate proteins, and the kidneys are able to transform the nitrogenous 
waste into urea for ultimate excretion. The young thrive on protein 
food ; during the period of middle age, however, the metabolic processes 
are less active, and then protein ingested in amounts greater than the 
physiological requirements tends to a condition of obesity, and the urea 
is not eliminated with as much facility because of decreased hepatic 
efficiency and lessened activity of the renal excretory power. With these 
conditions present, the amount of protein in the dietary must be held 
down, so that the optimum at this epoch falls below that of youth and 
early adult life. 

CAUTION AS TO PROTEIN DEFICIENCY.— Before leaving this subject 
we desire to urge a word of caution against a deficiency of food in the 
diet — protein, being the most costly, is the principle most likely to be 
short in the diet. Of late, considerable discussion — as emphasized by 
experiences recorded in this chapter-^has arisen as to the exact amount 
of protein required daily by the adult after the period of growth is 
complete. For generations past it has been considered that protein 
starvation is the cause of much ill health and misery. In our own 
country, among the poorer classes in the South, particularly in the 
mountain districts and among the poorer children working in factories, 
it is not imcommon for individuals to live upon a diet in which "tea, 
bread and butter" figure prominently, with an occasional bloater or 
other appetizer. Wliile such a diet may yield sufficient heat to supply 
the demands of the body according to scientific requirements, it does 
not give the consumer strength and endurance. The general principles 
laid down in this chapter should guide us in directing a diet for people 
of this type, and especially where the cost of meat, fish, fowl, eggs or 
milk is prohibitive, to suggest and direct the freer use of beans, peas, 
lentils and nuts which would supply the necessary protein to make up a 
well-balanced ration without an excessive expenditure of money. 

UNDEREATINO.— Undereating is often coupled with indigestion in 
such a way that it is impossible to say which is the cause and which 
the effect. Within wide limits the digestive glands accommodate them- 
selves to the tax levied upon them, providing adequate amounts of their 



J 



I 



HIGH VERSUS LOW PROTEIN DIET 197 

juices for large or small meals. Low diet, therefore, may weaken the 
adaptability of the organs it is designed to spare (Howell). 

Benedict, of the Carnegie Nutrition Laboratory, has severely criti- 
cized those writers who go to extreme lengths in their championship of 
reduced feeding. He has shown that when the food supply is very small 
the absorption is often less complete than with a more liberal diet, 
indicating that the digestive system is not in such good working order 
as it might be with more to do. Chittenden, the foremost advocate of 
careful restriction, agrees with his critic to this extent at least — that 
he believes that an occasional big dinner is a valuable means of testing 
the canal to see whether it has retained the reserve power which it 
should have. We must admit, in spite of the scientific investigations 
laid down for the bodily requirements of persons in adult life, that these 
standards are subject to a personal equation which will upset the calcu- 
lation, and therefore the scientific figures can only be considered as 
general averages. 

OVERFEEDING. — Overfeeding, especially in youth and early adult 
life, may be disposed of by quick digestion and speedy assimilation, 
great metabolic activity and greater physical exercise, whereby the ex- 
cess of food consumed is rapidly used up and eliminated; but when the 
middle mile post in life's journey is reached, the body is less active 
and the same interest is not taken in cricket, football, golf and other 
outdoor games as in early life. Consequently, less food is metabolized 
and the "undesirable balance" remains as a "sin against Nature." It 
is quite true that a certain portion of this surplus may be stored up in 
the body as protein, glycogen and fat and may thereby lead to obesity. 
On the other hand, there are persons who "love to eat large meals," 
who lead an inactive life, follow sedentary occupations and live in warm 
rooms "lapped in luxury," who never put on flesh. Luxurious habits, 
especially overindulgence in meat, give rise to various stomach, kidney 
and arthritical complaints. Even though it may be taken into account 
that gourmands are the most frequent sufferers from the above disorders, 
this does not settle the matter, for he who "eats well" often "drinks 
well," and which of the two is the culprit, the protein or the alcohol? 
In the majority of instances it might be safe to assume that these boon 
companions share the responsibility between them. But this "unde- 
sirable balance" is the causative factor in a variety of ills, such as bilious 
attacks, migraine, headache, lethargy, diseases of the liver, kidneys, 
blood vessels, and favors the production of rheumatism and gravel and 

kindred affections, not to mention the various auto-intoxications and 
113 



198 protei:n^ and nutrition 

putrefactive stasis of. the alimentary canal. The decomposition of the 
end-products of protein digestion takes place in the colon; hence, in this 
region, products of decomposition develop, such as indol, phenol, skatol, 
volatile fatty acids, aromatic acid, ammonia, carbonic acid, methane, 
sulphuretted hydrogen and methyl mercaptan. 

The Greek and Spartan athletes of old were wholly or mainly 
abstainers from flesh foods, and won in all strenuous combats, until they 
began to eat flesh to make themselves "fierce," after which they began 
to lose in their conquests in the stadium. The diet of the country 
laboring classes, for half a century past, was almost wholly innocent of 
flesh meats and strong drinks, and it must be borne in mind that it is 
to this sober and temperate ancestry that the working powers of this 
present generation are owed. The use of flesh in the daily ration of 
food dates from hardly more than one quarter of a century among the 
peasantry of the most rural districts, and already they are beginning to 
degenerate. 

ILL-EFFECTS OF ABSORPTION OF END-PRODUCTS OF PROTEIN DIGES- 
TION.— Does muscular strength decline on a rich protein (meat) diet? 
Physicians are well aware of the weakening effect of a meat diet such 
as, in the past, has been prescribed for diabetics. If the lower protein 
estimate of Chittenden and others, say of 60 grams, be sufficient, is it 
not a question, then, of serious moment to tax severely the organs of 
digestion and assimilation with from 120 to 200 grams of protein ? 
The end-products of protein digestion which cannot be entirely con- 
sumed in the body leave behind a large proportion of incombustible 
waste material which the liver and kidneys are called upon to excrete, 
putting extra exertion on these organs. If this large amount of protein 
is unnecessary, it is not a very far step to the assumption that it must 
be injurious, because a considerable amount of energy must be devoted 
to catabolism in the cells and to the excretion of its waste products by 
the kidney, energy which might otherwise be utilized and assist in 
metabolism of the muscles. 

PROTEIN STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES 

Chemical Formation of Protein Fractions. — It is an established fact that 
proteins are the actual vehicles of life and upon their properties the very 
possibilities of life depend. The huge molecules of the proteins have 
been teased and torn out^ — to borrow a term of histology — and as a 
result the conception of an unwieldy group of atoms has been replaced 



PROTEIN STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES 199 

by that of an orderly structure composed of comparatively simple build- 
ing stones, forming a neatly constructed block of masonry rather than 
an amorphous mass of concrete. These building stones are now famil- 
iarly known as protein fractions. Some of them have long been known 
as rare ingredients of the excreta — such, for instance, as tyrosin, leucin 
and cystin — but whence they came and how they were formed in the 
body has been until recently unknown. Widely as the protein fractions 
differed in their structure, they have this in common: they are amino- 
or di-amino-acids, and share the properties of acids and bases. They 
are, furthermore, capable of combining with each other to form compli- 
cated chains or networks which constitute the protein molecules, and 
since they admit of combination into many different groupings there 
is a possibility of almost infinite varieties of protein structure. 

QUANTITATIVE DIFFERENCES OF PROTEINS.— A great deal of OUr 
newer information concerning the proteins we owe to Osborne and 
Mendel (37). They have experimented with pure proteins and they 
have shown definitely that certain amino-acids are indispensable in food. 
With certain proteins — lacking certain of the amino-acids — maintenance, 
but not growth, occurs. With other proteins deficient in certain other 
amino-acids, not even equilibrium can be maintained. For instance, 
they have shown that the protein of com (zein) is an inefficient protein, 
and that when zein serves as the sole source of nitrogen in the diet, 
nutritive failure results. It is a perfectly digestible protein, but lacks 
tryptophan and lysin. Likewise, gelatin does not contain tryptophan, 
an amino-acid, which is essential for the maintenance of the body nutri- 
tion. The addition of both of these latter to zein completes it. Add 
tryptophan alone, and equilibrium is maintained. Add both, and growth 
follows. Glutelin of corn is a complete protein, but it does not occur 
in sufficient quantity to balance the deficient zein, therefore corn is not 
a complete protein. Other proteins which are relatively poor, though 
not entirely lacking in certain amino-acids necessary for growth, are 
gliadin of wheat and hordein of barley. To this class also belong the 
protein of hemp seed, edestin, which is comparatively poor in lysin. 
Wheat gliadin will serve to maintain equilibrium, but will not permit 
of growth. Add lysin to gliadin, however, and growth results. Gliadin 
is evidently a better source of nitrogen than zein. Lysin is present in 
many foods; for instance, 9.6 per cent in lactalburain, 7.59 per cent in 
ox muscle, 4.81 per cent in the yolk of eggs, 4.98 per cent in peas, 4.58 
per cent in beans, 7.61 per cent in casein. The addition of any of these 
to a corn or wheat dietary adds to its efficiency and tends to insure 



200 PKOTEIiq- AND NUTEITION 

growth. These facts apply to adult animals, but, to be sure, they also 
apply more trenchantly to young animals. 

The energy value of gelatin is inferior to protein for growth and 
repair. It is, however, a true protein, though not complete, and, there- 
fore, gelatin alone cannot maintain protein equilibrium in nutrition. 
The "incompleteness" of food value is doubtless due to the absence of 
certain amino-acid radicals, conspicuously tryptophan, in the gelatin 
molecule. Gelatin alone would not supply the necessary protein content 
of a well-regulated dietary. If one were to rely largely on gelatin as 
a food it would be necessary to add other proteins, such as those of milk, 
rich in particular amino-acids which gelatin lacks. 

QUALITATIVE VARIATIONS IN THE AMINO-ACIDS OF PROTEINS.— 
In the table, Volume I, Chapter III, are clearly shown the variations to 
be found in several of the typical proteins. The most marked differences 
in amino-acids from a quantitative point of view are very definite. Again, 
considered from the qualitative standpoint, variations in nutritive value 
are very important. The mention of a few of the most striking variations 
may serve to make this point more clear. Albumin and casein contain 
no glycocoll ; gliadin derived from wheat is also glycocoll-free and contains 
only a negligible trace of lysin ; zein derived from corn contains neither 
lysin nor tryptophan; and gelatin has no tryptophan, tyrosin or cystin. 
Munk and Voit, in their well-known work, were the first to emphasize the 
bearing of the qualitative variations in protein from the viewpoint of 
nutritive value, especially as regards gelatin, which they proved could not 
sustain nitrogen equilibrium. Escher showed that the addition of tyrosin 
to gelatin increased its value to the point of establishing nitrogenous 
equilibrium. This work constitutes the introduction to a series of experi- 
ments which have done much to solve many puzzling problems associated 
with the metabolism of nutrition. It is not the purpose of this work to 
enter into the details of all these experiments, but a glance will be given 
to the more important. 

Kaufman demonstrated that gelatin with the addition of the missing 
amino-acids, tyrosin and tryptophan, is capable of maintaining nitrogen 
equilibrium for short periods in man and dogs. Willcock and Hop- 
kins(38) report most interesting experiments with zein, which, as has 
been said, is deficient in lysin and tryptophan. Light from new angles 
is thrown on the problem under consideration and the results accord 
perfectly with the most recent theories. According to these investigators : 

We are no longer bound to Liebig's view, or to any modification of it which 
implies that the whole of the protein consumed is utilized as intact protein; nor 



PROTEIN STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES 201 

are we even compelled to assume that the whole of what is broken down in the 
gut is resynthesized before utilization. Protein products may function in other 
ways than in the repair of tissues or in suppljdng energy. It is highly probable 
that the organism uses them, in part, for more specific and more immediate needs. 
The discovery of substances absolutely essential to life, highly specific, and elabo- 
rated in special organs, suggests that some part, at least, of the protein products 
set free in the gut may be used directly by these organs as precursors of such 
specific substances. In adrenalin, for instance, we have an aromatic substance 
absolutely essential for the maintenance of life, and it is probable that the supra- 
renal gland requires a constant supply of some one of the aromatic groups of the 
protein molecule to serve as an indispensable basis for the elaboration of adrenalin. 
If this be so, it is certain that the gland itself could not, in starving animals, 
supply sufficient of such a precursor to outlast the observed survival periods. 
Since adrenalin must be produced at all costs, the required precursor must, in 
starvation, be obtained by tissue breakdown outside the gland. We may be sure, 
however, that adrenalin is far from being the only substance elaborated to which 
such considerations apply. Similarly, in an animal upon a diet sufficient to supply 
energy, but lacking in some essential group, the minimal waste in the general 
tissues of the body will be determined by the special need of the organs for the 
missing group. On this basis we have a hypothesis to account for the special 
protein-sparing properties of gelatin. It shares with protein certain molecular 
groupings needed to satisfy specific needs, and is thus superior to fats and carbo- 
hydrates as a protein sparer; it lacks, on the other hand, certain necessary group- 
ings, fails therefore to supply all such needs, and thus cannot replace protein. 

Physical Properties of Proteins — In the process of metabolism, the 
role of the proteins is fast becoming the role of the amino-acids. The 
body metabolism makes use of amino-acids, but the human economy 
must be fed proteins from which the amino-acids are derived, and they 
depend in amount not only upon the chemical composition of the pro- 
tein, but upon its physical character and also upon other substances 
combined or mixed with the alimentation. It has long been thought 
that the proportion of ingested protein that is digested and absorbed 
from bread varies according to the amount of the outer cortex (bran) 
of the grain present in the flour, less being absorbed from bread made 
from the coarser meals and flours; that the percentage of cellulose in 
other foods also has a bearing on the absorption of protein. 

It has been shown by Hart and McCollum(39) that the inadequacy 
of corn as an exclusive food is due partly to the character of its proteins, 
partly to the deficient mineral content. When these deficiencies are sup- 
plied, normal growth is possible on a dietary composed largely of com. 

In order to understand clearly the role of proteins in growth from 
the standpoint of the sources of our food, it is necessary to appreciate, 
first, that the utilization of proteins depends on the characteristics of 



202 PROTEIl^ AND NUTRITIOI^ 

ihe proteins themselves or of the foods containing them, which make 
them resistant, and not to the digestive enzymes and hormones, which 
influence the rate of their passage through the alimentary canal; second, 
their digestion and assimilation: to what extent they can supply the 
essential amino-acids in the proportion in which the body requires them 
for the wear and tear and tissue building; and third, the physiological 
effect of individual amino-acids, especially, perhaps, those furnished by 
the proteins in question in excess of the body needs (40). 

RELATIVE ABSORPTION OF PROTEINS.— The experiments of Mendel 
and Fine (41), recently confirmed by the findings of Howe and 
Hawk (42), show that when fed in a more or less isolated form, the 
proteins of cereals are as completely digested and absorbed as the pro- 
teins of animal food — 91-97 per cent; but for the proteins fed in the 
natural food these values do not hold. Only 80-85 per cent of the nitro- 
gen of wheat bread is absorbed, 70 per cent of rye, 58 per cent of pum- 
pernickel, 40.76 per cent barley and 61-82 per cent of corn nitrogen. 
These percentage values, showing the amount of protein absorbed from 
whole grain cereals, were determined by methods less accurate than those 
now in use, but they serve to show the comparable absorption of proteins 
from different cereals, and show undoubtedly lower protein utilization 
in grains than in isolated grain proteins. 

DIFFERENCES IN SUITABILITY FOR TISSUE CONSTRUCTION.— 
**With equal digestion and absorption, proteins may still differ greatly 
in their suitability for tissue construction and otherwise in their physio- 
logical effect." According to Howe and Hawk: 

The proteins of meat and of the commercial wheat preparation, gliadin, are 
about equally well digested and absorbed, but when fed for a period of five days 
in equal quantity and in similar rations, gliadin gave a negative nitrogen balance 
of 1.3 grams, while meat gave a positive balance of 11.3 grams. 

Osborne and Mendel have shown that a large number of proteins 
contain all the amino-acids necessary for growth: ovo-albumin, ovo- 
vitellin glutenin, maize glutelin, edestin, casein, lactalbumin. Hart and 
McCollum(43) and their co-workers have found several natural mixtures 
of proteins occurring in wheat, com, oats and milk which furnish the 
amino-acids requisite for tissue construction. McCollum, in comparing 
the protein mixtures of the grains previously enumerated, with one 
another and with the protein mixture of milk to determine their avail- 
ability for growth, found the available nitrogen of cereals to be 23-24 
per cent, 45 per cent casein nitrogen and 63 per cent of milk nitrogen 



THEORIES OF PROTEIN METABOLISM 203 

fed as milk. It is evident, therefore, that the amino-acids resulting 
from the digestion and assimilation of milk proteins not only contain all 
the units necessary for tissue building, hut contain them more nearly 
in the proportion in which they can be used than is the case with the 
other foods considered. Wheeler says: 

If there is a shortage of one amino-acid essential to the building of body pro- 
tein, the amount of that acid present determines not only the amount of tissue 
construction, the rate of growth, but determines also the proportion of the food 
protein that can be used for growth. It has been found that the body metabolism 
can store very little reserve amino-acid — practically all of the amino-acid that 
cannot be built into protein is promptly deaminized and the nitrogen excreted. 

The investigations of Osborne and Mendel (44) have thrown light 
on the nutritive value of individual amino-acids : the aromatic amino- 
acids are essential to maintenance ; cystin, lysin, probably arginin, and 
histidin are essential for growth. Again Wheeler says: 

An understanding of the role exerted by the individual amino-acids in metab- 
olism suggests wonderful possibilities, for in the future it will be possible for 
the physician or dietitian to feed a frail, undersized child on just the right com- 
bination of milk, eggs and cereals to furnish the amino-acids he needs, in the right 
proportion, with no large excess of any one to overtax the excretory system or to 
overstimulate metabolism; a worn-out neurasthenic can be given just the right 
amino-acids to replace worn-out tissue and enough glycocoll to stimulate metabolism. 

Enough has been drawn from the writings of Osborne, Mendel, 
Howe, Hawk and others to make us feel the importance of knowing the 
protein composition of foods and how to mix them in order to obtain 
a sufficient quantity of complete protein. It is evident to the careful 
student of dietetics that there is but one general way in which to for- 
mulate the diet question, bearing in mind the fact that "a man who 
maintains his weight may be in excellent nutritive condition, but a child 
who does the same thing may be failing to grow" (45). 

THEORIES OF PROTEIN METABOLISM 

After weighing all the discussions pro and con as to the necessity 
for protein in the dietary, we come to the conclusion that a reasonable 
surplus of protein from suitable food materials can hardly be injurious, 
and may be advantageous. Whether such a surplus should be especially 
recommended or not is largely a question of economics. Where little 
money can be spent for food there is danger that too little food may be 
eaten, and it should be remembered in suggesting dietaries that protein 



204 PROTEIJs^ AND NUTRITION 

can be secured from beans, peas, etc., at about two-fifths the cost of 
obtaining it from porterhouse and sirloin cuts of steak. In considering 
this subject, we must not be misled by the popular statement that ''pro- 
tein builds tissue" into supposing that a liberal amount of protein can 
keep the body strong in spite of a deficiency in the total food. This 
impression is somewhat general, but is certainly incorrect. 

From investigations of Chittenden, Fisher, Peschel, Hindhede and 
others, coupled with our own personal experience, we find that physical 
strength and bodily health can be maintained on a low protein diet, but 
it is difficult for students following the teaching of the scientists of the 
old school to rid themselves of the idea that there must be "something" 
of especial value in meat. It would seem to be rather difficult to express 
the exact truth of what this "something" is. We know that this "some- 
thing" has nothing to do with health, with working ability, with strength 
and endurance; it is energy. 

According to Hutchison (46), it is undoubtedly possible to maintain 
a healthy life upon the protein contained in a moderate quantity of 
vegetable food, and the accumulated experience of vegetarian races fully 
bears this out: 

This, however, does not dispose of the question. There is such a thing as 
degrees of health. While one freely admits that health and a large measure of 
muscular strength may be maintained upon a minimum daily supply of protein, 
yet I think that a dispassionate survey of mankind will show that races which 
adopt such a diet are lacking in what, for want of a better word, one can only 
describe as enei^y. Now, energy is not to be confused with muscular strength. 
A grass- fed cart horse is strong; a corn-fed hunter is energetic. Energy is a 
property of the nervous system; strength, of the muscles. Muscles give us the 
power to do work; the nervous system gives us the initiative to start it. Muscles 
do their work upon carbohydrates, which are the characteristic nutritive con- 
stituent of vegetable foods; the brain appears to reqixire nitrogen, which can only 
be obtained in a concentrated form from animal sources. If protein food, there- 
fore, be regarded as a nervous food, a diet rich in it will make for intellectual 
capacity and bodily energy, and it is not without reason that the more energetic 
races of the world have been meat eaters. 

It should be stated that Hutchison's theorizing concerning protein 
versus nervous energy and brain work is, at present, simply his personal 
opinion, not formed on exact observations. Mental work exercises no 
direct influence on metabolism. The molecular changes which are char- 
acteristic and lie at the foundation of all mental processes are neither 
oxidation nor decomposition processes, or, if they are, they are too slight 
in degree to be calculated by our present methods. 



THEORIES OF PKOTEIN METABOLISM 205 

In order to maintain the blood and muscles in a good physical con- 
dition, an abundant supply of protein seems to be necessary, and by 
promoting oxidation, it increases vigor and diminishes the tendency to 
an undue accumulation of fat. The nervous system also requires a 
plentiful supply of protein, if those mysterious influences which emanate 
from the brain and spinal marrow are to be maintained with sufficient 
potency to enable the tissues to ward off the inroads of disease. It is 
claimed that persons who habitually live on a protein minimum con- 
valesce very slowly after an acute illness, for the reason that, when their 
tissues are broken down, they have no ready surplus of building mate- 
rial out of which to repair them. An increase in protein intake pro- 
duces a rise in protein metabolism. This occurs to such an extent that 
the organism is generally able to maintain itself in nitrogenous equi- 
librium on the most diverse amounts of protein. This coincides with 
the observation of von Noorden and others, that the body is unable to 
store any excessive amount of protein. 

These two observations are only two different ways of stating the same 
fact. At first sight, the fact that the organism is able to break down as 
much protein as is conveyed to it, appears not to agree with the law that 
the degree of protein metabolism varies with tissue requirements and not 
with the amount which is presented to the cells. The law is absolutely 
true so far as the consumption of oxygen- and nitrogen-free substances 
is concerned. The extraordinary variations in protein consumption, 
which may, with a rise in the intake, reach to ten or fifteen times the 
normal, have occasioned much uncertainty, so long as the degTee of the 
metabolism is regarded purely from the standpoint of protein metabolism. 

We all know the feeling of well-being which follows a meal containing 
meat. Physiologists tell us that this condition of well-being is due to the 
protein in the meat and not to its extractives, as it has been demonstrated 
that the addition of extractives of meat to foods, such as bread, will not 
produce this feeling of contentment and well-being. On the other hand, 
oatmeal, which is rich in protein, is capable of bringing about, to a cer- 
tain extent, this degree of well-being. A full meal of nitrogenous food 
is an actual stimulant to the tissues of the body. 

It has to be remarked concerning animal food that, while in the raw 
state, it may be readily digestible with little or no previous mastication, 
since massive pieces of it are readily attacked by the digestive juices, 
this is much less true of animal food the proteins of which have been 
coagulated and rendered less permeable by cooking. Yet the most indi- 
gestible form of egg white is the raw liquid albumen ; it resists digestion 



206 PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

so much that even a dog can utilize only 50 per cent of the nitrogen, the 
balance being excreted in the feces. Large lumps of hard-boiled egg or 
overdone meat may obstinately resist gastric digestion — indeed, the rela- 
tive digestibility of animal foods depends more upon physical consistence 
than chemical composition ; beef is generally more indigestible than mutton, 
and pork or veal than either, not so much by virtue of chemical compo- 
sition as of physical consistence. 

Americans are said to be the greatest meat eaters in the world. The 
average American feels that he must have meat at least twice a day, and 
not a few of them are dissatisfied if they do not have some form of meat 
at every meal. That this excessive meat consumption is injurious to a 
great many people, and especially to those living sedentary lives, is attested 
by the clinicians who are called upon to treat disturbances in nutrition 
and metabolism. That a heavy meat diet is not necessary is amply 
demonstrated by the experience of the Japanese soldiers in the war between 
Russia and Japan(47), and is being demonstrated at the present time in 
the European war, where the soldiers have been forced to accept a diet 
that is almost wholly vegetarian. The testimony of those who are familiar 
with conditions seems to indicate that the soldiers are much better off on 
the vegetable diet than they were when they obtained a liberal supply of 
animal food. ^lay we not learn a lesson from the experiences of the 
European soldiers which were brought about by force of necessity? 

We believe it good advice to direct a liberal allowance of meat up to 
middle life, or, to be more exact, to the thirtieth year, when it is no longer 
necessary to have an alimentation for building more tissues or to promote 
growth, but only to maintain an equilibrium of weight and strength. 
From thirty to the thirty-fifth year a man should begin to restrict his 
meats ; after thirty-five he should partake of meats less freely, more espe- 
cially the red meats ; after forty-five he should eat meats sparingly ; after 
fifty he should only eat very small portions of meat once a day. We are 
satisfied that the American people would be better off by far if they had 
50 per cent of the protein eliminated from the daily alimentation. 

Man at maturity — the thirtieth year — from habits formed in early 
life, habitually eats too much. The wholesome appetite of healthy child- 
hood is strongly established and the pleasure of eating has become a 
habit as fixed and inviolable as the "laws of the Medes and Persians." 
Therefore, most men and women are inclined to eat too much and too 
rich food that, although palatable, is indigestible. It is at this time 
that indiscretions of diet are most frequently the cause of disorders ol 
digestion and assimilation. It is without question that we would be 



THEORIES OF PROTEIN METABOLISM 207 

satisfied witli less aliment and more particularly much less protein than 
we have heen accustomed to ingest. 

At this time of life the habit of only eating what is needed should 
be acquired and the earlier habits of life should be broken. The average 
man should limit himself to small portions and should make it a rule 
not to have the second helping of any kind of food at a meal. This 
general rule is, of course, subject to modification, for individuals en- 
gaged in strenuous occupations require a somewhat more liberal dietary 
allowance containing the ternary food elements. General practitioners 
in agricultural districts frequently observe that farmers, during the 
summer, when their occupation is most strenuous, eat very heartily. 
Their work in the open enables them to consume and digest large amounts 
of food. Unfortunately, during the winter months, when their work is 
comparatively light, they continue the same habit and spend too much 
time at the table and consume an inordinate amount of food as com- 
pared with their activities. Such indiscretions at first cause slight gas- 
tric disturbances, but later on chronic digestive disorders will result. 

We have a suspicion that a vast number of ailments and disorders 
of the stomach, nerves, liver and kidneys, not to mention gout, are to 
be attributed simply to the overfeeding on meats. In the past, when 
these dyspeptic and nerve-weary patients presented themselves, complain- 
ing of drowsiness, debility, general disgust with life, etc. — all due to the 
ingestion of too much protein — ^liow often has the physician exhorted 
them to eat plentifully ! Worse advice could not have been given, Chit- 
tenden, formerly a believer in a high protein diet, and particularly in 
meat, has lately seen the error of the older views, and now believes in 
and teaches a low protein diet. Accordingly, body weight, health, 
strength, mental and physical vigor and endurance can be maintained 
with at least one-half of the protein food ordinarily consumed; a kind 
of physical economy which, if once entered into intelligently, entails no 
hardships, but brings with it an actual betterment of the physical 
strength, increased endurance, greater freedom from fatigue, and a con- 
dition of well-being that is full of suggestion for the betterment of 
health. 

Whether the fatigue poisons come from the excessive exogenous 
catabolism of proteins in general, or whether they are derived directly 
in a measure from flesh foods, need not be considered here; the main 
point is that by lowering the rate of protein catabolism, which neces- 
sarily compels a reduction in the amount of flesh foods, there is a 
diminished quantity of nitrogen waste floating about in the body. Eur- 



208 ■ PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

ther, we need not criticize too closely the method by which the reduction 
of food is accomplished : whether it be by encouraging prolonged mas- 
tication, with a view to better tasting and fuller enjoyment of the food, 
to the point of involuntary swallowing; or whether it be by advising 
our patients to follow natural impulses, mastication, taste and appetite 
reenforced by the use of reason with a full appreciation of the principle 
that the welfare of the body is best subserved by a quantity of food com- 
mensurate with true physiological needs. 

According to writers on dietetics, one principle in sitology which 
has not received adequate recognition may be summed up as follows: 
"The dietary standard varies not only with the condition of activity, 
but also with the nutritive plane at which the body is to be maintained." 
One may ask the question then, "What level of nutrition is most advan- 
tageous ?" The answer is not easy, and it must be sought in metabolism 
experiments and dietary studies; and it must also be sought in broader 
observations regarding bodily and mental efficiency, general health, 
strength and welfare. 

According to the earlier views, the protein is built up from peptone 
through synthesis in the wall of the intestine, since no other tissue in the 
body has the power of causing peptone to disappear. Conheim teaches 
that the peptone molecules vanish not because they are built up, but 
because they are broken down. The site of this synthesis, according to 
his opinion, is still uncertain, though he holds to the belief that the 
intestinal wall is where protein synthesis begins. If a complete syn- 
thesis of protein does take place in this intestinal wall, it must be a 
neutral protein, that is, one that is found in the blood. We can hardly 
conceive of the intestine synthesizing and delivering, in obedience to 
reflex demands of the various organs of the body, just the particular 
variety of protein (amino-acids) that is needed. 

Lewis once taught that protein was built up from the fragments of 
the food-protein molecule, not in the wall of the intestine, but in the 
various organs of the body. If his theory is correct, then the blood 
would carry molecular complexes of the lower orders from the intestine 
to the organs sufficient for their local necessities, where these complexes 
would be built up into the protein of the organs in situ, without having 
to pass through the preliminary stage of conversion into neutral protein. 
Von Noorden does not agree with this supposition, and holds that the, 
organism is certainly able to convert even specific varieties of the pro- 
tein of the organs into other kinds, and therefore would be able to build 
up organ-protein out of neutral protein. 



THEORIES OF PROTEIN" METABOLISM 209 

Beyond question, if the organism is able to interchange the proteins 
of the tissues, which are distinctly, though slightly, differentiated, one 
can well believe that it has the power to build up specific kinds of pro- 
tein out of the neutral protein of the blood. Through this physio- 
metabolic process, the intestine would then hand on just half -manufac- 
tured stuff made up out of the raw materials it received, but the organs 
would perfect the work and produce the finished article. 

We have seen, from the study of protein metabolism, that Tiydrolytic 
cleavage precedes every metabolic transformation of protein inside the 
body. This decomposition goes on in much the same way as it does in 
the protein of the nourishment in the intestine. In the metamorphosis 
of protein, decomposition would only be excluded supposing that it con- 
sisted exclusively in the annexing of new groups — in a growth of the 
molecule. ''The 'living molecule' of protein in protoplasm, as the bearer 
of life, the agent and instigator of all body chemical changes, has to 
enter into a temporary alliance with the lifeless combustible substances, 
the dispensers of energy, in order to initiate and carry through their 
oxidation, thus transferring to itself as living force their potential 
energy. Thus its composition must vary at different moments according 
to whether it has just annexed such combustible substances in order to 
oxidize them, or has just given them off again after the combination." 

If the accepted theory be that protein is not absorbed in the form 
of peptone or proteoses, the query arises, "In what form is it absorbed?" 
If it is admitted that protein invades the blood stream in the form of 
a molecule larger than the amino-acids, proteose or peptone molecule, it 
is self-evident, according to Underbill of Yale (48), that 

The intestine must be regarded as capable of synthesizing amino-acids into 
protein. On the other hand, if amino-acids are regularly present in the systemic 
circulation, the place of protein regeneration must be relegated to the cellular 
elements of the different tissues. 

Further : 

The belief now generally accepted, as regards the protein requirements of the 
organism, is that it is not so much the actual quantity as the quality of the pro- 
tein supplied in the food which is of importance. If the material supplied be 
uniform, it necessitates a fresh breakdown by each tissue, perhaps by each indi- 
vidual cell. Although the tissues all probably possess the power of breaking down 
protein material by means of their intracellular proteolytic enzymes, still the extra 
work involved seems to negative the immediate resynthesis hypothesis, especially 
when the hypothesis of the circulating digestion product postulates the presence 
of the individual food material in the blood. 



210 PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

The extensive researches of Folin, Denis, Van Slyke(49) and Myer, 
and later Abderhalden, have definitely proved the entrance into 
the blood stream of the amino-acids, which once for all definitely estab- 
lishes their function — i.e., of being absorbed by the tissues without 
undergoing any immediate chemical change. While this absorption is 
rapid, it is never complete, the blood always containing a small quantity 
of amino-acids. It would appear from this that there is an equilibrium 
between the amino-acids of the blood and of the tissues. The way in 
which the amino-acids are taken up by the tissues and held by them is 
still an unsettled point. 

These same investigators, in later researches, sought to determine 
the ultimate fate of the amino-acids after absorption by the tissues, and 
selected the changes occurring in the liver, where, after absorption, the 
amino-acids rapidly disappear. Underbill offers several explanations 
and suggests the following possibilities: (a) The amino-acids may be 
excreted through the bile; (6) they may be transferred to other tissues, 
though this is highly improbable, since none of the other large organs 
show any great avidity for amino-acids; (c) the absorbed amino-acids 
are synthesized into body protein in the liver, and (d) the amino-acids 
are deaminized with formation of urea or ammonia. 

The amino-acids disappear more rapidly and completely from the 
liver than from other organs, such as the kidney, spleen, pancreas and 
intestine. A most satisfactory summary of this whole subject has been 
made by Van Slyke and Myer (49), which we give below in their own 
words : 

The amino-acids, with perhaps some peptids from the intestine, enter the circu- 
lation from which they are immediately absorbed by the tissues. The power to 
take them up from the blood stream is common to all tissues, but is limited. The 
muscles of the dog, for example, reach the saturation point when they contain 
about 75 mgm. of amino-acid nitrogen per 100 grams. The liver, however, con- 
tinually desaturates itself by metabolizing the amino-acids it has absorbed, and 
consequently maintains indefinitely its power to continue removing them from the 
circulation so long as they do not enter it faster than the liver can metabolize 
them. When the entrance is unnaturally rapid, as in our injection experiments, 
or when the liver is sufficiently degenerated, as observed clinically in some patho- 
logical conditions, the kidneys assist in removing the amino-acids by excreting 
them unchanged. Death may result when the above agencies for preventing undue 
accumulation of protein digestion products are overtaxed. In regard to the syn- 
thesis' of tissue proteins, it appears reasonable to believe that, since each tissue 
has its own store of amino-acids, which it can replenish from the blood, it uses 
these to s>Tithesize its own proteins. 



THEORIES OF PKOTEIN METABOLISM 



211 



From the research experiments of Van Slyke and Myer it may be 
assumed, says Underhill, that 

(a) The amino-acids serve as a reserve energy supply, like glycogen, or as a 
reserve tissue-building material. In either case, the supply would fail unless con- 
stantly supplied from the absorption from the intestinal wall. (&) The amino- 
acids are intermediary products in both the anabolism and the eatabolism of the 
tissue proteins. In this case they could originate not only from absorbed food 
products, but also from autolized tissue protein; starvation would not result in a 
disappearance of the amino-acid supply of the tissues, and might even increase it. 

In order to determine the correctness of either of these assumptions, 
Van Slyke and Myer carefully analyzed the tissues of animals in vari- 
ous stages of nutrition and concluded that the presence of free amino- 
acids in the tissues hastened rather than retarded starvation. 

In further summarizing, the investigators express themselves as 
follows : 

The amino-acids appear, therefore, to be intermediate steps, not only in the 
synthesis, but in the breaking down of body proteins. Otherwise, in order to 
explain their maintenance in the tissues during starvation, one would be forced, 
contrary to the conclusions of all experimental work on the subject, to assume that 
they are inert substances lying unchanged for long periods, even when most 
urgently needed to build tissue or to supply energy. The maintenance of the 
amino-acid supply by synthesis, from ammonia and the products of fats or car- 
bohydrates, seems excluded. The supply of raw material in the form of fat and 
carbohydrate nearly disappears during starvation, and the ammonia could origi- 
nate only from broken-down protein, as the normal store of ammonia nitrogen is 
only a fraction of that of free ammonia acids. These considerations, and the self- 
evident wasting of starved tissues, point strongly to autolysis as the main source of 
the free amino-acids of the fasting body. 

The failure to increase the free amino-acid content of the tissues by high protein 
feeding indicates, furthermore, that when nitrogen is retained in the organism, it 
is not to an appreciable extent, as stored digestion products, but rather as body 
protein. 

From the foregoing it is no longer questioned that the amino-acids 
are normally absorbed directly into the blood stream from the intestinal 
epithelium and distributed to the tissues, and that each tissue rebuilds 
itself from the mixture of amino-acids thus conveyed to it. Any excess 
is changed into urea and carbonaceous residues by a process of deamina- 
tion. Protein material catabolized in the tissues undoubtedly undergoes 
a series of hydrolytic cleavages, resulting in the formation of amino- 
acids, and the latter meet the same fate as those produced direct from 
food protein. 



212 PKOTEIN AND NUTRITION 

Vegetable Protein — There is a prevalent belief that vegetable protein 
is far more difficult of complete digestion than are albuminous substances 
of animal origin, such as fish, flesh, fowl, milk and eggs. The popular 
belief of the small percentage of vegetable protein utilized, which is not 
without foundation, has furnished a strong argument against the vege- 
table propaganda. Numerous research workers have determined experi- 
mentally that the protein content of some vegetables, particularly the 
coarser cereals and most of the common legumes, is very poorly absorbed. 

Atwater and Bryant (50), experimenting along these lines, gathered 
the following data: 

CHARACTER OF THE DIET AND PROTEIN CONTENT UTILIZED 

Character of Dietary Percentage of Protein 

Utilized 

Animal Food 97 per cent 

Cereals 85 " 

Legumes- dried 78 " 

Vegetables 83 " 

Fruits 85 " 

Vegetable Food 84 " 

Total Foods 92 " 

There are several factors which might help to explain why the nutri- 
ents of certain vegetable foods are more difficult of utilization than the 
same elements from animal foods: (a) The low nitrogen content of 
most vegetable foods requires their ingestion in relatively large amounts ; 
(6) this increased bulk of vegetable food with its high cellular content 
tends to hasten its passage through the intestinal tract, and thereby, to 
a certain extent, reduce the chances for complete digestion and utiliza- 
tion. In comparison with animal foods the vegetable foods may present 
an unfavorable texture, especially in the older plants, in which the cell 
walls may be quite tough and even supplemented with lignin. 

There is abundant evidence that cellulose is not digested to any con- 
siderable extent by the higher animals. Again, the vegetable membranes 
are not always readily permeated by the digestive juices. Therefore it 
is readily understood that plant cells should be thoroughly and effectively 
comminuted and insalivated as a preliminary step to complete digestion 
and assimilation. 

We must not conclude from the foregoing that vegetable proteins 
possess any inherent resistance to complete digestion and utilization by 
the human organism. Mendel and Fine(51) have shown that the two 
characteristic proteins of wheat, gliadin and glutenin, are as completely 
absorbed and utilized as the nitrogenous components of fresh beef. The - 




THEORIES OF PROTEIN METABOLISM 213 

same probably holds true for the protein content of barley, and to a 
lesser degree for the proteins of corn. It is regrettable, however, that 
no such reports are at hand for the isolated proteins of the legumes, 
beans, lentils and peas. 

The newer knowledge of the physiology of the amino-acids empha- 
sizes the fact that each food product ought to be tested on its own merits 
before any final pronouncement as to its availability and utilization is 
made. Therefore it will be seen that a protein may be readily digestible, 
and its digestion products easily absorbed into the blood stream; and 
yet such a protein may be of inferior biologic value because of its failure 
to yield all the amino-acids necessary for the nutritive functions of tissue- 
growth and repair. The test, to be conclusive, must be furnished by a 
physiologic experiment rather than a mere chemical analysis. 

VALUE OF WHITE POTATO.— Hindhede( 52) of Copenhagen was the 
first to call attention to the physiologic value of the nitrogenous content of 
the white potato. Its richness in starch has been long recognized and 
has led to the inclusion of the potato in the group of carbohydrate foods. 
Hindhede's research experiments were conducted on men, and were of 
sufficiently long duration — weeks, rather than days — to give unusual sig- 
nificance to the data collected. He was able, with white potatoes and 
oleomargarin as the sole ingredients of the ration, to maintain a satis- 
factory nitrogen balance. 

The researches of Hindhede have recently been corroborated by Rose 
and Cooper (53) at the department of nutrition of Columbia University, 
The ration for their research experiments consisted of white potatoes 
and clarified butter. Sufficient quantity was allowed to furnish the 
requisite fuel value and the potatoes furnished all but 0.1 per cent of 
the total nitrogen. The nitrogen balance was maintained for seven days 
on a total nitrogen intake of 0.096 grams per kilogram. This report is 
in harmony with other experiments in which the nitrogen equilibrium 
has been maintained on potato nitrogen when the net available energy 
supply was from 0.04 to 0.08 grams per kilogram of body weight, and 
effectively demonstrates that the potato is a source of energy of high 
nutritive efficiency in spite of the fact that only 63 per cent of the potato 
nitrogen is reported to be in the form of protein. 

The unusual prominence of the potato as a food both in Europe and 
America is due to its palatable carbohydrate content. The researches of 
careful investigators now emphasize its base yielding inorganic compo- 
nents, and point out its useful function in maintaining the acid base 
equilibrium of the body (54). The climax is now reached by a most 

114 



214 PKOTEIK AND NUTRITION 

favorable report on the high biologic value of the nitrogenous components 
of a food that, heretofore, has rarely been regarded as having any sig- 
nificance whatever as a source of nitrogen. 



REFERENCES 

1. Vaughan and Wheeler. Ed., J. Am. Med. Assn., Nov. 15, 1913. 

2. Kemp, Robekt Coleman. Diseases of the Stomach, Intestines 

and Pancreas, 3d ed. 

3. Smith, E. E. Unpublished MSS. on Protein Poison ; see also The 

Physiology of the Amino-acids, by Frank P. Underbill, of Yale. 

4. Kendall, I. A. In vol. i, chapter vii ; see also I. A. Kendall's 

Bacteriology, General, Pathological, Intestinal, pub. by Lea 
and Febiger. 

5. Chittenden. Physiological Economy of Nutrition, New York, 

1905. 

6. . Ibid. 

7. Fisher, Prof. Irving. The Effect of Diet on Endurance, New 

Haven, 1907. 

8. VoiT. (Standard Table) Miinchen med. Wchnschr., vol. ix, 1807. 

9. Tree. Brit. Med. J., 1904, p. 622. 

10. Bremner and Howland. 

11. Lane and Catherwood. 

12. Head, F., Playfair, L., and Darwin. 

13. Ranke, H. Ztschr. f. Biolog., Bd. xiii, p. 130. 

14. AuziMouR. Resistance des Arabes, Moutpellier, 1905. 

15. Maurel. Traito do I'alimentation et de la nutrition, vol. i, p. 3, 

Paris, 1905. 

16. Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 

17. Flint. J. Anat. & Physiol., voL xii, p. 91. 

18. Pavy. Lancet, 1876. 

19. Atwater. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. 18, and U. S. Dept. of 

Agric. Exper. Sta., Bull. 109, pp. 29, 30. 

20. VON Noorden. Translated from the 1st ed. of von Noorden's 

Pathologic der Stoffwechsel. 

21. Hutchison. Food and Dietetics, Ist ed. 



KEFERENCES 215 

22. Chittenden. Physiological Economy in Nutrition, pp. 51, 127. 

23. Hutchison. Ibid., 2d ed. 

24. . Chem. News, pp. 94, 104. 

25. FoLiN. Am. J. Physiol., 1905, pp. 13, 117. 

26. . Ibid., pp. 13, 131-132-136-137. 

27. Halliburton. Ann. Rep. on Progress of Chem., ii, pp. 215-218. 

28. Benedict. Am. J. Physiol., pp. 16, 409. 

29. Meltzer. Science, pp. 25-481. 

30. Chittenden. The Nutrition of Man, pp. 160, 164, 227, 269. 

31. MuNK (of Berlin). Virchow's Archiv., cxxxii, 96-102. 

32. Hindhede (of Denmark). Protein and Nutrition, London, 1913. 

33. Underhill. The Physiology of the Amino-Acids. 

34. SiVEN. (In his standard work.) Skand. Arch. f. Phys., Bd. xi. 

35. Peschel. Dissertation, Berlin, 1890. 

36. Hutchison, Robert. Food and the Principles of Dietetics, Lon- 

don, 1905. 

37. Osborne and Mendel. J. Biol. Chem., 1914; Med, Rec, 1914; 

J. Am. Med. Assn., 1914. 

38. WiLLCOCK and Hopkins. J. Physiol., vol. xxxv, p. 88, 1916. 

39. Hart and McCollum. The Influence on Growth of Rations Re-' 

stricted to the Corn or Wheat Grain, J. Biol. Chem., 1914, 19, 
373-397. 

40. Wheeler. Proteins in Growth, Scientific Monthly. 

41. Mendel and Fine. Utilization of the Proteins of Wheat, J. Biol. 

Chem., 1912, 10, 303; Utilization of the Proteins of Barley, 
ibid., p. 345. 

42. Howe and Hawk. Utilization of Individual Proteins as Influ- 

enced by Repeated Fasting, Eighth Int. Cong, of Applied 
Chem., 19, 145. 

43. Hart and McCollum. Influence on Growth of Rations Restricted 

to the Corn or Wheat Grain, J. Biol. Chem., 1914, 19, 373-397. 

44. Osborne and Mendel. Comparative Nutritive Value of Certain 

Proteins in Growth, J. Biol. Chem., 1915, 20, 351. 

45. . Carnegie Inst. Pub., 1911, p. 156. 

46. Hutchison. Foods and Dietetics, p. 174, London, 1911. 

47. Lewis, H. Edwin. Editorial, Am. Med. 

48. Underhill. The Physiology of the Amino-Acids. 

49. Van Slyke and Myer. J. Biol. Chem., 1912, pp. 197 and 231. 

50. Atwater and Bryant. Rep. Storrs Agric. Exper. Station, 1899, 

p. 86. 



216 PROTEIN AND NUTRITION 

51. Mendel, L. B., and Fine, M. S. Studies in Nutrition — (a) The 

Utilization of the Protein of Wheat, J. Biolog. Chem., 1911 
vol. X, p. 303; (h) The Utilization of the Proteins of Barley 
ibid., p. 339 ; (c) The Utilization of the Protein of Corn, ibid. 
p. 345; (d) The Utilization of the Proteins of Legumes 
ibid., p. 433 ; (e) The Utilization of the Proteins of Cotton- 
seed, ibid., 1912, vols, i, ii and vi. 

52. HiNDHEDE, M. Untersuchungen liber die Verdaiilichkeit der Kor- 

toifeln, Ztschr. f. phys. u. diatet Therap., 1912, 16. 

53. Rose, Mary S., and Cooper, Lena F. The Biological Efficiency 

of Potato Nitrogen, J. Biol. Chem., 1917, 30, 201. 

54. Blatherwick, N. R. The Specific Role of Foods in Relation to 

the Composition of the Urine, Arch. Int. Med., Sept., 1914, 
p. 409. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Armstrong. The Simple Carbohydrate and the Glucosides. 

Atwater. Methods and Results of Investigations on the Chemistry and 
Economy of Food. 

and Benedict. Comparison of Fats and Carbohydrates as 

Protectors of Body Material, U. S. Dept. of Agric, Office of Exper. 
Stations, Bull. 136, pp. 176-187. 

Benedict. The Influence of Inanition on Metabolism, Carnegie Institu- 
tion of Washington, Publication No. 77. 

Cathcart. The Physiology of Protein Metabolism, 1912. 

Chittenden. Physiological Economy in Nutrition; The Nutrition of 
Man. 

. The Nutrition of Man. 

FoLiN. Am. J. Physiol., 1905, 13, p. 45. 

. Intermediary Protein Metabolism, J. Am. Med. Assn., 

1914, 63, p. 823. 
Glikin. Chemie der Fette, Lipoide, und Wachsarten. 
Hammarsten. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry, 1914. 
Harper and Peter. Protein Content of the Wheat Kernel, Kentucky 

Agric. Exper. Sta., Bull. 113, 1905. 
Kajiura. The Proteins of Rice, Biochem. J., 1912, vol. vi, pp. 171-181. 
Liebig. Complete Works on Chemistry, 1856. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES IN 
ANIMAL METABOLISF 

IN COLLABORATION WITH 

A. Beuce Macallum, A.B., M.D., Ph.D. 

Lipoids: Nitrogenous Importance of Lipoids; Lipoids in Metabolism; Bio- 
electric Potentiality of Lipoids. 

Vitamines: The Antineuritic " B " Vitamine; Properties, Preparation, Quant- 
itative Estimation, Possible Constitution, Physiology and Pharmacology; 
The Antirachitic "A" Vitamine; Properties, Separation, Quantitative 
Estimation, Relation to Plant Pigments, Formation in Plants, Physiolog- 
ical Action; The Antiscorbutic " C" Vitamine; Properties, Preparation, 
Quantitative Estimation, Formation and Physiological Action; Special 
Applications of the Vitamine Theory; Vitamines in Bread, in Milk, in 
Growth Processes, in Pellagra, in Rickets. 

LIPOIDS 

Nitrogenous Importance of Lipoids — Proteins and lipoids form the prin- 
cipal component parts of all living cells. Living protoplasm is a mixture 
of substances and solutions, of a non-homogeneous nature, slightly miscible 
with each other. Consequently there is a substratum of colloidal ma- 
terial, together with simpler substances of a water soluble nature with an 
affinity for the colloidal material. It is the oxidation of these substances in 
aqueous solutions, rather than the colloidal material itself, which liberates 
the energy manifested in the organism, but the colloidal material makes 
the conditions and supplies the enzymes which control the energy-yielding 
oxidations and other metabolic processes. The colloidal materials are pro- 
duced by polymerization from substances — fats, amino-acids and salts in 
solution supplied to the cells, but the lipoids are a sine qua non to enable 
most of these substances to enter the cells. Besides, the lipoids are of such 
importance in the process of nutrition, and together with protein exert 
such a prominent role in all life's processes, that we deem them of suf- 
ficient consequence to call attention to their essential activities in the sev- 

217 



218 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

eral phases in metabolism. They are absolutely indispensable "o man and 
a constant supply is essential to the organism. 

The lipoids (1) are a group of organic nitrogenous substances com- 
prising the phosphatids, cerebrosids and cholesterin. The phosphatids 
contain phosphorus, an organic base, and a fatty acid radicle in their 
molecule. The members of this series are lecithin, cephalin and cuorin. 
They are widely distributed in both animal and vegetable cells, but are 
especially abundant in the yolk of eggs, fish roe, brain tissue, yeast, blood 
and bile. They are also found to a lesser extent in cereal grains, legumes 
and beet root. The cerebrosids are isolated almost entirely from brain and 
nerve tissue. These do not contain phosphorus and yield galactose upon 
hydrolysis with dilute mineral acids. Cholesterin is an unsaturated sec- 
ondary alcohol, is universally present in animal and vegetable tissue, 
and is most abundant in bile, yolk of eggs, nerve tissue and wool fat, and 
found abundantly in wheat, barley, beans, peas, lentils, eariots, peanuts 
and beets. 

Lipoids in Metabolism. — The importance of the lipoids in mammalian 
nutrition is illustrated by the fact that the growth of the brain :8 directly 
proportionate to the lecithin content of the mother's milk. A number of 
investigators have asserted that the lipoids are essential for the main- 
tenance of life and growth, but when lipoids in a comparatively pure 
state are added to lipoid free diets, no beneficial results follow. In these 
cases where the lipoids were extracted from the food before feeding it to 
animals, the vitamine fraction was removed along with the lipoids and for 
this reason the purified lipoids gave no relief to the symptoms resulting 
from the use of the lipoid free diet. Cholesterol is also'an essential factor 
in metabolism, as Landers' (2) experiments prove that it cannot be syn- 
thetized by the mammalian animal tissue and it is promptly incorporated 
from the diet and tenaciously retained by the body when animals are on 
a lipoid free diet. He demonstrated anew that pure cholesterol added to 
a lipoid free ration resulted neither in increment of growth of the young 
nor maintenance of life. Fowls on the other hand can synthetize lipoids 
or tjieir mother substances from a lipoid free diet(3). The lipoid group 
in the normal diet, apart from its function as a source of absorbed vita- 
mines, is of importance in replacing the lipoid deficiency following the 
lipoid catabolism. 

Lipoids are easily permeable by substances soluble in fat, but it is with 
the greatest difficulty that they are permeated by solutions of salt, sugar 
and similar substances. The amino-acids are lipoid solvents(4) and their 
method of entering the cells is through the lipoid spaces in the outer layer 



VITAMIN.es 219 

of the plasma membrane of the cells. Meyer is the authority for the state- 
ment that these peculiar lipoids which intersect and surround the living 
protoplasm with walls of froth, so to speak, are of decisive importance in 
the life and functions of the cells. It is claimed that their presence pre- 
vents a fusion of the innumerable particles of the cell, and at the same 
time they protect it against a too rapid ingress and egress of water, as well 
as against invasion by salts and other substances dissolved in the blood 
and organic fluids. Besides this, they possess another function of acting 
as a sort of sieve for all the substances soluble in fat, and for those which 
dissolve in them more readily than water. 

Bio-electric Potentiality of Lipoids. — According to Loeb and Beutner(5) 
the lipoids confer on the cells the property of bio-electrical potentiality. 
Lillie(6) has shown that the cells owe the property of irritability, or the 
power of responding to the various stimuli, to the lipoids. Therefore, 
the great importance of the lipoids in the organic processes of the cells 
becomes apparent to the student of tropho-dynamics. Moreover, it is in 
accord with Schauman's phosphorus-deficiency theory of beriberi, pel- 
lagra and other deficiency diseases. 

THE VITAMINES 

The vitamines constitute a highly specialized group of substances 
whose identity and physiological importance remained undetected until 
a decade ago. This circumstance was due to two factors : (a) The influ- 
ence of the views of Atwater, Voit and Eubner had laid great stress 
upon the dynamic value of the constituents of the diet and thus the 
calorie became the unit of measurement in dietary values. The quality 
of the diet was also of importance as shown by the researches of Hen- 
riques, Osborne, Mendel and Hopkins in that certain amino-acids could 
not be synthesized by the animal cell and must be supplied from outside 
sources. The calorific value and the amino-acid supply, for a time, 
seemed to explain most of the results obtained by experiments with diets 
prepared from apparently purified substances. In these cases the vita- 
mines had been present, although unsuspected, owing to the minute 
traces necessary to produce their physiological effect. (h) Although 
Eykmann had shown the connection between the diet and the incidence 
of beri beri, in that the curative element existed in the rice millings, the 
clinical mind persisted in seeking for a solution of the problem in an 
infecting agency or a toxemia of chemical origin. 

The vitamines at the present time consist of three distinct substances 



220 SIGlsTIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

otherwise known as "Accessory Factors of the Diet": "Exogenous 
Hormones," "Advitants," and "Biocatalysts." These three compounds 
are known as the fat soluble "A" vitamine, so-called because it was dis- 
covered in association with certain fats ; the water soluble "B" or anti- 
neuritic vitamine ; and the "C" or antiscorbutic vitamine. They resemble 
the alkaloids to a certain extent in that an immeasurably small quantity 
is necessary to exert their characteristic activity in animal metabolism, 
while their reaction to certain precipitating reagents and adsorption 
media is also comparable to a moderate degree. They have as yet defied 
attempts to isolate in a pure crystalline state and one of their principal 
features is a reaction to various ranges of temperature, hydrogen, 
hydroxyl-ion concentration and oxidizing agents ; so that a fortuitous com- 
bination of these conditions can destroy their physiological action with- 
out any detectable change in chemical structure. There is no definite 
chemical reaction which is specific for all or any members of this group, 
either as regards the detection of their presence or absence ; or which will 
determine whether, when present, they are physiologically active or inac- 
tive. The metabolic role that these elements play is not definitely known 
and further research must show whether they exert an effect as a result 
of a chemical action or act as a catalyst. 

The accessory factors have a fairly wide distribution in the natural 
foodstuffs which are available to the average American of the working 
class. Only in cases where choice is limited by poverty, prevailing 
economic or geographical conditions, does a deficiency in the vitamine 
intake with its subsequent train of diseases ensue. In some cases where 
the accessory intake may be normal in ordinary dietary conditions, 
a relative deficiency may follow through an excessive administration of 
the particular component of the diet which the vitamine in question as- 
sists to metabolize. The following table (I) indicates the distribution and 
relative quantities of Vitamines "A," "B" and "C" in the foodstuffs men- 
tioned. This vitamine content has been ascertained by biological methods 
which consist in studying the effect of extracts of the various foodstuffs 
upon animals fed on basal diet plus the vitamine additions as in the 
case of the "A" and "B" substances, or by inducing the deficiency dis- 
ease and noting the curative effects of the concentrated preparation; a 
method applicable to the "B" and "C" accessory factors. These two 
methods constitute the only criterion for the qualitative and quantitative 
determination of these essential elements. 

The Antinenritic or **B" Vitamine — This member of the vitamine 
group is treated first for historical reasons. It was the first of this class 



THE VITAMINES 
TABLE I 



221 



Classes of foodstuff 



Fats and oils 

Butter 

Cream 

Cod-liver oil 

Mutton fat 

Beef fat or suet 

Peanut or arachis oil 

Lard 

Olive oil 

Cottonseed oil 

Cocoanut oil 

Cocoabutter 

Linseed oil 

Fish oil, whale oil, herring oil, etc 

Hardened fats, animal or vegetable origin 
Margarine prepared from animal fat . . . 



Margarine from vegetable fats or lard 

Nut butters 

Meat, fish, etc. 

Lean meat (beef, mutton, etc.) 

Liver 

Kidneys 

Heart 

Brain , 

Sweetbreads 

Fish, white 

" fat (salmon, herring, etc.) 

" roe 

Tinned meats 

Milk, cheese, etc. 

Milk, cow's whole, raw 

' ' skim, raw 

' ' dried whole 

' ' boiled whole 

' ' condensed, sweetened 

Cheese, whole milk 

' ' skim 

Eggs 

Fresh 

Dried 

Cereals, pulses, etc. 

Wheat, maize, rice, whole grain 

" germ 

" bran 



Fat-soluble A 

or antirachitic 

factor 



+ + + 

+ + 
+ + + 

+ + 

+ 







d 

Value in propor- 
tion to amount 
of animal fat 
contained 

+ 

+ 
+ + 
+ + 

+ 
+ 


? 

+ + 



Less than -|- + 

Undetermined 

+ 

+ 



+ + 
+ + 

+ 





Water- 
soluble B or 
antineuritic 
(anti-beri- 
beri factor) 



+ 

+ 

+ + 

+ + 

Very slight, 

if any 

Ditto 

+ + 

Very slight 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 



+ + + 
+ + + 

+ 
+ + + 
++ 



Anti- 

soibutic 

factor 



+ 

+ 





+ 

+ 

Less than -|- 



222 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

TABLE I— Continued 



Classes of foodstuff 



Fat-soluble A 

or antirachitic 

factor 



Water- 
soluble B or 
antineuritic 
(anti-beri- 
beri factor 



Anti- 
scorbutic 
factor 



Cereals, pulses, etc. — Continued 

White wheaten flour, pure cornflour, 

polished rice, etc 

Custard powders, egg substitutes, pre- 
pared from cereal products 

Linseed, millet 

Dried peas, lentils, etc 

Peaflour (kilned) ' 

Soy beans, haricot beans 

Germinated pulses or cereals 

Vegetables and fruits 

Cabbage, fresh 

" " cooked 

dried 

' ' canned 

Swede, raw expressed juice 

Lettuce 

Spinach (dried) 

Carrots, fresh raw 

dried 

Beetroot, raw, expressed juice 

Potatoes, raw 

' ' cooked 

Beans, fresh, scarlet runners, raw ...... 

Onions, cooked 

Lemon juice, fresh 

" " preserved 

Lime juice, fresh 

" " preserved 

Orange juice, fresh 

Raspberries 

Apples 

Bananas 

Tomatoes (canned) 

Nuts 

Miscellaneous 

Yeast, dried 

' ' extract and autolyzed 

Meat extract 

Malt extract 

Beer 





++ 



+ 
+ 



Very slight 



+ 
+ 







+ + 


++ 

+ 
+ 
+ 



+ 

4- 



-I- 



+ 

+ + + 


-|- in some 
specimens 












+ + 

+ + + 

+ 

Very slight 

+ + + 



+ 
Less than -f- 

+ 

+ + 

+ (at least) 

+ + + 

+ + 

+ + 

Very slight 

+ + + 

+ 

Very slight 

+ + 



to be definitely demonstrated as an individual compound and gave rise 
to a specific classification. Earlier clinical experience had given strong 
support to the theoi-y that beriberi was definitely of dietary origin, but 
Eykmann surmounted the principal obstacle to research in this case; by 



THE VITAMINES 223 

producing experimental beriberi upon fowls which were fed on diets of 
polished rice; and he was able to prove that this condition could be 
relieved or avoided by feeding with unmilled rice or polished rice plus 
the polishings(2). In subsequent research the pigeon has been found 
more useful and is now the only animal in general use for the induction 
of experimental neuritis. 

Properties — The curative substance is insoluble in ether or the usual 
fat solvents, since the usual procedure is to extract the fats before sepa- 
rating out or extracting it from rice polishings. It is soluble in water 
and dilute acids (3). Alcohol can extract it, especially when it has been 
made faintly acid in reaction with small quantities of glacial acetic or 
hydrochloric acid. While it is insoluble in absolute alcohol it can be 
separated by means of various mixtures of alcohol and water up to 95 
per cent, a method used by Osborne and Mendel to obtain a concentrated 
vitamine preparation (4). Aqueous solutions can be dialysed and the 
active principle found in the dialysate in the case of parchment mem- 
brane8(3). Semi-permeable membranes can be made from collodion 
tubes which are only very slightly permeable but which can be given 
\arious degrees of permeability by immersing in alcohol water mixtures 
of various strengths (80-100 per cent alcohol) (5). The higher the alcohol 
concentration the more permeable the membrane becomes. Membranes 
immersed in 95 per cent alcohol are sufficiently permeable to permit the 
passage of the antineuritic vitamine. This substance can be boiled in 
solution for 24 hours without losing its activity even in the presence of 
20 per cent sulphuric acid, and is unaffected by concentrated hydro- 
chloric acid at 98° C.(6). It is not stable in the presence of alkalies, 
although Steenbock(7) states that at room temperature these exert no 
deleterious effect even when concentrated. Dilute alkali at ordinary temp- 
eratures destroys its weight maintaining power but without affecting its 
activity towards beriberi (8). Baryta and ammonia used in concentrat- 
ing vitamine preparations have been found to depreciate its physiological 
effect in diseased animals(9). While resistant to temperature ranges 
up to 100° C. in neutral or acid media it can be rendered ineffective by 
heating for two hours or more at 120° C or above. Partial deterioration 
takes place at temperatures ranging from 100-115° C.(IO). It is also 
stable to the action of various enzymes, since it is obtained in solution 
in very active state when yeast is allowed to autolyse. This is the most 
popular method of preparation at the present time. 

Preparation — Various methods have been employed to attempt a 
separation and preparation in a highly concentrated form. Funk obtained 



224 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

it in the residue precipitated by phosphotungstic acid which he again 
fractionated and was able to finally precipitate it by means of baryta 
and silver nitrate. After removal of the silver a crystalline substance 
remained which had a melting point of 231° C.(ll). (From rice polish) 
230° C. (milk) 233° C. (yeast) 203° C. (or bran) (6). That it is 
present in only small quantities is indicated by the fact that 1.1 grm. was 
obtained from 54 kilo, of rice polish. The crystalline concentrate gave 
none of the typical amino-acid reactions, was soluble in 95 per cent 
alcohol, slightly soluble in hot water, and very slightly soluble in cold 
water. It gave no precipitate with picric acid and was partially thrown 
down by alcoholic mercuric chloride. The phosphotungstic acid precipi- 
tate contains large quantities of adventitious matter which can be removed 
by successive extraction of the phosphotungstates with acetone-water mix- 
tures of various proportions, leaving a residue which contains the vita- 
mine with a minimum of residual material from which it can be sepa- 
rated by means of the silver nitrate baryta method (12). Further attempts 
at the fractionation of the crystalline preparations yielded several com- 
pounds, all inactive, one of which was identified as nicotinic acid. Funk 
assigned the formula C17H20N2O to his active preparation(ll). 

Suzuki and his co-workers also obtained the active compound in the 
precipitated phosphotungstates. This fraction was again further sub- 
divided by treating with tannic acid which carried down the active prin- 
ciple with a quantity of inert material. The precipitate freed from 
tannic acid, dissolved in water, was treated with picric acid and an insol- 
uble crystalline picrate of the active principle separated(13). This has, 
however, not been confirmed by subsequent research. Hofmei8ter(14) 
treats the residue from the alcoholic extract from rice polish with a potas- 
sium biniodide solution made faintly alkaline with sodium carbonate. 
The iodide precipitate is removed and the filtrate concentrated and the 
precipitation with the iodide repeated. This latter precipitate is sepa- 
rated and ground up with silver carbonate f!.nd a soluble silver salt results, 
from which a base can be obtained by removing the silver with hydro- 
chloric acid and concentrating in vacuo. A hydrochloride of the formula 
CrHnNOa HCl was the final product. Moore and his assistants obtained 
a crystalline element by removing a large mass of inactive material with 
lead acetate and after removal of the lead acetate from the filtrate, sepa- 
rate the active principle with silver nitrate and baryta. They assigned 
the formula CrHuNaOs to their compound which they call "Torulin." 
Seidell(16) has also isolated a silver salt in the presence of ammonia 
which is extremely potent, since the crystalline base from the silver com- 



THE VITAMINES 225 

pound was able to prevent the onset of beriberi for six weeks where 
administered in quantities of .002 mg. per diem. All of the crystalline 
concentrates are equally potent, that obtained by Moore requiring 0.6 mg. 
to eifect a cure, while Funk's preparation was able to restore a beriberi 
pigeon to normal in 1-3 hours in quantities of 1-3 mg.(17). 

jS^umerous investigators have pointed out the capacity of various 
adsorbents to separate out, partially or almost completely, the curative 
agent from solution. Charcoal will remove part of it (18) while nearly 
all can be extracted by treatment with dialysed iron and fuller's 
earth (19). Fuller's earths and clays from diiferent sources have a vary- 
ing adsorption power, the best having a capacity forty times greater 
than the worst member of the group (20) and kieselguhr has no adsorp- 
tive action on vitamines(21). Lloyd's Reagent is the most active mem- 
ber of this group and is a standard compound which is employed for 
this purpose. It is a hydrated aluminium silicate and removes prac- 
tically all the antineuritic compound from autolysed yeast solutions when 
the mixture is rendered acid (% of hydrochloric acid) and agitated with 
the reagent for an hour. Fifty grams of the silicate per litre of solution 
removes practically all the curative element (22). Filtering off and shak- 
ing the precipitate with alcoholic soda will effect resolution of the active 
principle (23). 

Dialysis can also produce a concentrated preparation containing anti- 
neuritic properties. The solution is placed in a parchment bag and 
suspended in the air. The dialysate penetrates the pores and evaporates 
slowly on the external surface so that after several days a residue collects 
on the outer portion of the membrane which is often crystalline and can 
be easily removed by scraping (24). 

Osborne and Mendel effect a separation of the antineuritic element 
from autolysed yeast by taking the residue from a protein free extract 
of yeast and fractionating successively with alcohol water mixtures of 
various strengths. They obtain a mixture which retains nearly all of 
the water soluble vitamine and contains about 6 per cent of the extra- 
neous material in the original yeast extract (4). 

Various attempts have been made to ascertain the presence of the 
water soluble accessory by means of color reactions. Suzuki mentions 
the blue color developed by the action of phosphomolybdic acid upon 
ammoniacal solutions of the vitamine from rice polish (13). Funk also 
states that his solutions of purified vitamine gave blue color with the 
Folin phenol and uric acid reagents. The depth of the color also seemed 
to vary with the curative activity of the preparation(25). These dis- 



226 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

eoveries are confirmed by Eddy (26). The substances responsible for 
the color are probably not the accessory factor itself but compounds with 
which it is associated, since there is a large range of substances which 
yields these same color reactions, some of which have weak antineuritic 
powers but are not comparable in any great measure to that exhibited 
by the purified vitamine(27, 28). 

Quantitative Estimation — Various quantitative methods of estimating 
the antineuritic capacity by biological methods are in current use. 
Pigeons can be put on diets of polished rice or artificial food mixtures 
which are free of any water soluble vitamine (see section Vitamines and 
Growth) and the minimiim quantity of foodstuff or concentrated anti- 
neuritic compound required daily to prevent the onset of beriberi or to 
effect a cure when the disease appears. This method is cumbersome, 
expensive, time consuming and often uncertain. A later method depends 
upon the acceleration of the rate of growth of yeast cells grown in arti- 
ficial media (vitamine free). The rate of growth on media containing 
small additions of solutions of the water soluble accessory is much greater 
than that shown by the controls. Various methods of estimating the 
number of cells are current. Williams uses the hanging drop method, 
in which the rate of growth of single cells can be noted and counts 
made(29) ; latterly (30) the yeast is grown on larger quantities of culture 
media, filtered off, dried and weighed in a Gooch crucible. Variations 
of the method of cell counting have been elaborated by Eddy (31) and 
Fulmer(32). Funk (33) centrifuges the yeast cells in a centrifuge tube 
with a capillary at the base and measures the growth by the length of, 
the deposit in the capillary. Bachman measures the vitamine content 
by the rate of fermentation as indicated by the volume of gas formed 
in fermentation tubes (34). That other factors besides the vitamine 
content influence the yeast growth may be advanced as a criticism of this 
method and it is stated by several investigators that the accelerator for 
the growth of yeast may not be the antineuritic vitamine (32, 35). An- 
other method based on empirical experience uses the P2O5 content of the 
ash of the material in question as the vitamine index ; but the application 
of this princii)le in limited to cereals and foodstuffs prepared from them. 
Fraser and Stanton found that specimens of milled rice which produced 
beriberi had a P2O5 content averaging well below 0.5 per cent (36). This 
has also been shown to be the case with wheat and corn flour and bread- 
stuffs prepared from them. The fat content and the phosphorus content 
usually run parallel with each other and are indicative of the relative 
vitamine content (37, 38). In the case of the wheat flours 0.6 per 



THE VITAMINES 227 

cent is the minimum amount of P2O5 compatible with nutritional 
efficiency. 

Possible Constitution. — Since the behavior of the water soluble factor 
towards phosphotungstic acids and silver salts indicates a constitution of 
the purine or pyrimidine nature, many of these compounds have been 
tested to ascertain their antineuritic activity. A number of these have 
displayed slight curative powers but in no way comparable to the effect 
of the vitamine "B" itself (13, 39). Several attempts have been made 
to prepare a synthetical water soluble accessory and Williams (40) has 
prepared a -hydroxy pyridine in two crystalline forms, needle shaped 
and granular. The former displayed slight antineuritic powers but 
after standing a few days gradually changed to the granular condition, 
accompanied by deterioration and ultimate loss of its curative activity. 
This preparation has been repeated by Harden and Zilva, but these 
authors deny any curative power to either crystal form (41). The reported 
curative actions of the members of the hydroxypyridine group are usually 
associated to the stimulation they exert on the few healthy nerve cells 
in the cord of pigeons in the acute stage -of the disease(42). Thyroxin 
and Tethelin can also exercise a beneficial effect when administered to 
pigeons suffering from experimental beriberi, although in this case the 
response is also slower than in the case where the concentrated vitamine 
is used (43). 

Physiology and Pharmacology — The function of the accessory substance 
in the metabolic cycle is not definitely fixed. Studies upon animals in 
the acute stages of experimental beriberi show several striking features. 
There is usually extreme emaciation and serious loss in weight of all 
the organs and tissues with the exception of the brain and adrenal gland. 
The former increases very slightly in weight while the adrenal is en- 
larged and there is an increased supply of adrenalin in the gland. The 
intestinal tract is greatly degenerated both as regards the mucosa itself 
and the muscular layer, which is in an advanced state of atrophy. The 
ganglia are also shrunken and degenerated (44). Determination of the 
nitrogen-phosphorus ratio on the brains of beriberi pigeons gave results 
v/hich showed a loss of phosphorus as compared with the nitrogen so that 
evidently the lipoids of the brain had borne the brunt of the degeneration 
in this organ (39). Wallerian degeneration of some of the fibres of the 
various nerves is usual, the amount ranging up to 15 per cent of the fibres 
in the nerve on an average and the various ganglia show degenerative 
changes in the cells, while in the cord the degeneration is also confined 
to the cell elements. 



228 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

The concentrated antineuritic vitamine preparations when given per 
OS or parenterally in healthy animals canse a marked increase in the 
secretion of all the glands and mucosa of the whole gastro-intestinal tract. 
The liver and pancreas share in this exciting influence and increased 
peristalsis of the intestinal tract follows. The injection of such prepara- 
tions brings about a dilation of the blood vessels, accompanied by a lower- 
ing in pressure which subsequently returns to normal. Both smooth 
and striated muscle are increased in tone. The action of the accessory 
factor must be primarily upon the nerve centres since no effect is observed 
where these are inhibited by previous administration of atropine (45). 

Vitamines in Beriberi — Animals suffering from beriberi also have the 
catalase content of the tissues reduced as much as fifty per cent of the 
normal rate but after administration of the deficient accessory the enzyme 
action tends • towards the normal level. While the vitamine itself does 
not act as a catalase activator it apparently stimulates the production of 
this ferment by the tissue cells(46). This catalase content was consid- 
ered presumably a measure of the degree of activity of the metabolism, 
but lately it has been established that this is not the case since there is 
no appreciable difference in the catalase content of tissues of frogs when 
kept at room temperature or subjected to lower temperatures to effect 
a material diminution in the rate of metabolism (47). 

The glyoxalase content in the liver is diminished during the course 
of the polyneuritic attack and can be restored to normal by administra- 
tion of the water soluble factor(48). 

The proportion of the carbohydrate element to the rest of the diet 
is an important factor in the production of experimental beriberi. The 
acute stage appears at an earlier date when the starch and sugar factor 
in artificial vitamine free diets is at a high level while when these are 
diminshed and replaced by proteins the onset is delayed. Examination 
of the sugar content of the blood and liver in animals suffering from 
experimental polyneuritis show that the progress of this condition is ac- 
companied by the development of a hyperglycsemia and diminished 
glycogen content of the liver (49). The diastatic action of the blood is 
likewise diminished (50). Treatment with the antineuritic preparations 
in each case brought about a diminution of the sugar in the blood, the 
diastatic power approached the normal and the liver assumed its usual 
capacity for storing glycogen. 

The copious secretion of the pancreatic juice which follows the ad- 
ministration of various antineuritic preparations is similar to the action 
exerted on this gland by the duodenal hormone secretin. This has 



THE VITAMINES 



229 



brought about the investigation as to its antineuritic capacity. These 
experiments demonstrate that the vitamine preparations are active in 
secretory stimulation only so long as they possess curative capacity (51). 
Secretin preparations show some traces of curative capacity when pre- 
pared from healthy intestinal mucosa and loss of such power when ob- 
tained from that of polyneuritic animal ; yet this can doubtless be ascribed 
to the fact that the secretions of the normal animal contain a sufficient 
reserve of the antineuritic element, a factor which is absent owing to 
long continued deprivation in the pathological condition. It is not pos- 
sible to prepare a pure hormone without at the same time including some 
trace of the antineuritic compound from the secretion of the normal 
mucosa so that experiments of this type cannot be expected to be con- 
clusive. It is also impossible to produce a secretion preparation, vitamine 
free, from polyneuritic animals since the tissues contain a residuum which 
are insufficient to produce any effect against the disease. This is illus- 
trated by the fact that a pigeon which died of beriberi possessed a suf- 
ficient quantity of the accessory factor, which, when concentrated and 
administered to a polyneuritic pigeon, effected a cure (49). 

The Antirachitic or "A" Vitamine — This compound derives its nomen- 
clature from its discovery in association with butter fat used by Osborne 
and Mendel in feeding experiments with artificial diet mixtures. Subse- 
quent experiments showed that it was stored up in the animal body in 
the fat reserves of the tissues and could be separated along with the fats by 
any of the usual fat solvents. Early attempts to extract it from its original 
sources in the vegetable portion of the diet with ether, ligroin, etc., or by 
pressure, were unsuccessful and it was believed that it existed in plants in 
a combination which was only broken up by the digestive juices of the 
alimentary tract and stored up with the fats (42). 

Properties. — The "A" vitamine is soluble in alcohol, ether, ligroin, 
benzene and partially so in chloroform and carbon disulphide. Pro- 
longed storage of fats rich in this element ultimately produces a 
deterioration in the activity of the fat soluble factor. It can stand the 
action of live steam for several hours (52) and the autoclaving of vege- 
tables containing this element can be carried out without injury to the 
physiological power of the "A" vitamine. Molten butter fat shaken with 
distilled water for several times becomes inactive and no trace can be 
found in the washings. Recent work indicates that oxygen is the factor 
which is responsible for its destruction since it is still active where ex- 
posed to ultra violet rays, if protected from the ozone which is generated, 
but both ozone and aeration at temperatures above 100° C. destroy its 



230 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

activity(54) while even prolonged exposure to oxygen at 38° C. will 
ultimately bring about this condition (55), so that its deterioration in 
handling or storage can be ascribed primarily to oxidation by the 
atmospheric oxygen. Alkalies at ordinary temperatures and at the tem- 
peratures and conditions under which fat can be saponified produce no 
noticeable deterioration in its power (56) which is also not affected by 
freezing(57). 

Separation. — Early attempts at separation of the vitamine "A" 
from a mixture of animal fats gave evidence of its being closely associated 
with the olein fraction of butter and oleo oils used in the preparation of 
oleo margarine. When the stearin and palmitin were separated out by 
fractional crystallization, the olein retained all the physiological activity 
of the original mixture (57). Attempts to separate by hydrolysis of the 
fats and separation of the fatty acids, glycerol and unsaponifiable matter 
failed to show any relation of the fat soluble element with the first two 
groups while the portion constituting the third group gave fair evidence 
of possessing only slight traces of the accessory factor (59). 

A concentrated preparation of the fat soluble factor can be made by 
treating the vegetable mass with 50 per cent potassium hydroxide, and 
heating on the water bath for 14 hours. After letting stand for two 
weeks at room temperature, it is diluted with two volumes of alcohol and 
the hydrolysis completed by boiling for 24 hours. After removal of the 
alcohol the unsaponifiable matter together with the vitamine is separated 
by extraction with ether, and the ether removed by evaporation. The 
residue is usually a semi-solid mixture containing the fat soluble acces- 
sory in a highly concentrated form. The whole procedure of concentration, 
extraction and evaporation is carried on in an atmosphere of carbon 
dioxide (50). 

Quantitative Estimation. — The determinations are usually carried 
out on rats which are from 50 to 70 gm. in weight. These are 
placed on basal artificial diets (see vitamines and growth) which are 
vitamine free so that growth ceases after 10 to 15 days. After 25 to 28 
days on these diets the testing of the various fats and oils can be started. 
The material to be tested can be weighed out by delivering in drops of 
known weight from a pipette and can be incorporated into the daily ration 
or placed directly into the mouth of the animal. Solid fats can be melted 
first and then measured out as above. Oils and fats of high potency can 
be diluted first with inert fats like oxygenated olive oil. In this manner 
the smallest amount which will induce resumption of definite growth can 



THE VITAMINES 231 

be ascertained and a relatively exact standard of measurement be deter- 
n3ined(61). 

Eelation of the Antirachitc "A" Vitamine to Plant Pigments. — A glance 
at the list of substances containing the fat soluble factor in table 
I will indicate to the reader that the compounds which contain 
the yellow plant pigments are usually rich in this active substance. 
Experiments have been carried out by feeding hens carrotene free diets, 
thus obtaining eggs with a yolk almost free from coloring matter, and 
chickens have been raised to maturity on diets deficient in this coloring 
material. Butter can be rendered colorless by dissolving in alcohol and 
shaking with animal charcoal. This colorless fatty residue still retains 
its accessory factor in undiminished potency (63). There is often a varia- 
tion in the color of butters regardless of their vitamine content and some 
samples of beef fat may be more potent than many samples of butter (64) 
but depth of color is sometimes connected with the quantity of the fat 
soluble factor. Crystalline preparations of the yellow pigment obtained 
from carrots gave no indication of the physiological power of the fat 
soluble "A" vitamine when administered to rats suffering from a deficiency 
of the "A" vitamine and crude xanthophyll preparations had no definite 
effect upon such animals. While the pigments may be associated with the 
accessory factor in question they are apparently not identical (65). 

Formation of Fat Soluble Vitamine in Plants As in the case of other 

members of the vitamine series this element is not synthesized by 
the animal cell but its source is in the mechanism of plant metabolism. 
Frequent observations have been made pointing out the relation of this 
accessory factor with the chlorophyl in cabbage leaves while the leaves 
devoid of the green pigment have no activity when tested for the presence 
of the "A" vitamine(66). While seeds are deficient, this deficiency can- 
not be appreciably remedied by germination. Etiolated seedlings possess 
no superiority over seeds or germinated seeds and it is not until the seed- 
lings have developed a considerable amount of chlorophyl that any fat 
soluble accessory has been developed. Plants grown upon artificial water 
culture media can synthesize the vitamine even when the plants are 
trimmed down to the stalks and allowed to grow anew. Green seaweeds 
are equal to green cabbage in their physiological activity and the seaweeds 
or plants which possess a red pigment are usually deficient, and plants like 
mushrooms, which possess no chlorophyl, are also almost completely lack- 
ing in the activity manifested by the fat soluble "A" vitamine (60). 

Physiological Action. — The importance of this factor in the meta- 
bolic cycle can only be demonstrated by withholding it for prolonged 



232 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

periods in feeding experiments or by continued administration of natural 
food substances deficient in this element. Attention was first directed to 
this substance by the development of keratomalacia and acute infection of 
the eye in rats fed on synthetic dietaries. In this case the lard was 
replaced with butter fat and led to the extermination of the eye symp- 
toms(52, 58). The ocular disturbances are accompanied and more often 
preceded by cessation in growth which can only be resumed by adminis- 
tering substances containing the deficient vitamine. In the case of rats 
on artificial diets not all will develop this condition but a majority usually 
do. The age of the animal is usually a factor determining the appearance 
of the eye trouble, since the demand for the fat soluble factor is greatest 
during the period of rapid growth and it is in these cases that the kerato- 
malacia develops in greater proportion, while older rats whose major 
growth increment has been attained do not often display this pathological 
condition (67). This feature is also found in some cases in children and 
infants and Bloch reports that it appeared in Denmark during the war 
and disappeared after the Government rationed the butter supplies (68). 
The metabolism of the teeth and bones is connected in some manner with 
the action of the fat soluble accessory and inadequate supplies of this com- 
pound may possibly be connected with the development of phosphatic 
calculi in the "urine (69). Avitaminosis of the vitamine "A" accessory is 
one of the important factors in the production of malnutritional oedema 
of the body, as this condition was favorably influenced by administration 
of butter fat. The degree of activity displayed by the butter seemed to 
vary according to its content of the fat soluble element although it is not 
definitely claimed that this compound was responsible for the curative 
action resulting from the use of butter fats(44). 

The Antiscorbutic or "C" Vitamine — Although the etiology of scurvy 
has been definitely connected with a dietary deficiency for over two cen- 
turies, practically no serious research was attempted until the early years 
of the present century. The development of the vitamine theory renewed 
the interest of the nutrition expert in this particular condition with the 
result that a voluminous literature is now available and the etiology and 
treatment of scurvy placed on a satisfactory foundation. 

Properties. — The antiscorbutic factor is soluble in water and alco- 
hol water mixtures containing 66 per cent to 95 per cent alcohol and one- 
half per cent of aqueous acetic acid solutions. It is insoluble in petroleum 
ether (70, 71, 72) and ether (73). It is not possible to effect complete 
separation by dialysis through parchment membranes and the filter candles 
of the Berkfeldt or Chamberlin type retain only a small portion and in 



THE VITAMII^ES 233 

some cases permit the complete passage of this substance. The size of the 
pores in the filter are doubtless the factor which permit the variation in 
the retention. Adsorption media like animal charcoal may take up a 
portion of the vitamine but separation is never complete, and silicates, 
fuller's earth and dialysed iron have no capacity for removing it from its 
solutions (73, 74). 

The principal characteristic of the vitamine "C" accessory is its 
extreme sensitiveness to heat. Materials desiccated at temperatures as 
low as 38° C. have been found to be completely inactive (70) and even 
short periods of heating at temperatures from 70° to 100° C. will result 
in partial deterioration. Sterilization of milk by means of autoclaving 
processes at 120° C. for one hour is followed by complete loss of its 
antiscorbutic power (75). Oxidizing agents like oxygen, permanganates 
and peroxide of hydrogen can completely eliminate the physiological 
activity of solutions prepared from substances containing adequate sup- 
plies of this element(73, 76) and it is principally for this reason that 
desiccation is usually followed by depreciation in the protective power of 
the solution. Recently de Zilva has found that if air is excluded from or 
replaced by carbon dioxide gas in the container, solutions of the anti- 
scorbutic vitamine can be boiled for as long as two hours without appre- 
ciable damage to their curative power (77). The aeration factor is one 
which has been overlooked until quite recently and is responsible for the 
divergence of opinion that exists regarding the effect of heat and desicca- 
tion on the antiscorbutic properties of foodstuffs. 

The reaction of the solution is an important factor in the preservation 
of its antiscorbutic activity. If the reaction is acid this property is 
retained longer and resists the action of oxidation and heating more than 
when the reaction is neutral or alkaline. Hoist holds that the acid reaction 
of lime juice is responsible for the retention of its antiscorbutic activity 
over long periods. Milk, rendered slightly alkaline for feeding infants, de- 
teriorates more rapidly than usual when heated(78), and fruit juices, 
made alkaline to about .05/N soda after standing 24 hours had suffered 
practically complete loss of curative power. 

Prolonged storage of foodstuffs ultimately results in partial or com- 
plete destruction of the antiscorbutic factor, especially where preservatives 
have been used and the literature contains accounts of numerous experi- 
ments supporting this result. Lime and lemon juice is the principal 
exception to this and even here there may be partial loss but the acid 
reaction is the principal factor in keeping the curative properties intact. 

Fermentation processes which take place in the storage of ensilage 



234 SIGNIFICANCE ®F LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

where the temperature rises to 38° C. have been found to effect the 
destruction of the antiscorbutic action of the material stored in this 
manner (73). Ultra violet rays produced by the mercury vapor lamp 
exert no deleterious effect on the physiological activity of concentrated 
preparations which have been exposed to this action for periods of time up 
to eight hours in length (79). 

Preparation of Concentrated Antiscorbutic Mixtures. — The juice of the 
lemon or orange is the most suitable for making concentrated solid 
residues of high potency and permanency to storage conditions. In 
this connection it is interesting to note a variation in limes of different 
varieties. Early issues of fruit juices for antiscorbutic purposes in the 
British Navy were prepared from lemons and sweet limes up till 1875. 
The protective value of this preparation was proved by their use in the 
Arctic expedition of 1850. In 1875 shortly after the substitution of the 
lemon and sweet lime by the sour West Indian lime, Nares' polar 
expedition was equipped with juices from the latter fruit and eight months 
after the expedition set out scurvy broke out and persisted until the return 
of the expedition (80). 

A concentrated dried preparation can be made by shaking fresh lemon 
juice with excess of precipitated calcium carbonate. Then the suspension 
is treated with 2 volumes of alcohol, filtered by pressure, then rendered 
very slightly acid with solid citric acid and evaporated in vacuo at 35° C. 
to a solid residue. This compound is very active and keeps its properties 
for prolonged periods(81). A modification of this method can be used 
on large scale concentrations by evaporating the strained juices of oranges, 
lemons, apples, etc., in a Kestner evaporator at 15 lbs. steam pressure. 
The juice is passed rapidly through the apparatus (about one minute) 
and the temperature is usually below 50° C. It is necessary to pass the 
material through the evaporator three times to secure the maximum con- 
centration. The residue is a syrup which contains 68 per cent of total 
solids. This material is active for a period of two years(82). The juice 
can also be rapidly concentrated by mixing with com syrup and forced 
under high pressure through an atomizer into a chamber against a current 
of air at 80° C. In this case the exposure to the drying current is only a 
fraction of a minute (83). 

Quantitative Estimation. — The usual method is to ascertain the 
minimum quantity which will protect a guinea pig against the develop- 
ment of scurvy when fed on a diet deficient in antiscorbutic power. Ex- 
perimental scurvy has been produced by feeding these animals on a sole 
diet of oats and water and this procedure has been in vogue long before 



THE VITAMINES 235 

the advent of the vitamine theory. Subsequent experience has shown that 
in many cases, in the earlier researches, the scorbutic syndrome was often 
complicated by the development of pathological symptoms due to the 
deficiency of the fat and water soluble factors and doubtless this is respon- 
sible for the conflicting statements found in the literature. The most 
reliable method in use is that elaborated and used in researches carried out 
at the Lister Institute. The animals are given a standard diet of rolled 
oats and bran, water ad. lib. and a daily ration of 60 c.c. of milk, auto- 
claved for one hour. This latter feature furnishes the "A" and "B" 
accessory and improves the diet and promotes growth without influencing 
the development of the scorbutic condition. The antiscorbutic vitamine is 
administered in the form of the original foodstuff containing it or in the 
concentrated preparation and the minimum daily amount determined 
which will keep the animal in a condition where the growth curve paral- 
lels that of a young healthy animal on a fully adequate and normal 
diet (84). 

Formation and Physiological Action. — The antiscorbutic factor is 
formed in the vegetable cell which is undergoing active metabolism. 
This is one of the principal reasons why cereal grains are deficient, since 
they represent at this stage a state of dormant and suspended metabolism. 
Fuerst(85) made the original discovery in 1912 that cereal grains when 
soaked in water and allowed to germinate acquired antiscorbutic power. 
This is in contrast to the distribution of the water soluble factor which 
is found abundantly in dry cereal grains. Removal of the grains from the 
growing plant and the desiccation consequent upon storage results in 
loss of the antiscorbutic factor which can only be recreated by the vital 
activity of the germinating cell. It is not confined to any group or local- 
ized with any definite physiological function since it can be demonstrated 
in the roots of tubers both fresh and those which are stored in the moist 
state. In these cases the cells are turgid with absorbed water and this 
condition is essential for the preservation of this accessory when these 
foodstuffs are stored. 

The "C" vitamine accessory can only exert its physiological action 
when it is absorbed by way of the digestive system or blood stream. Un- 
like the antineuritic factor, intraperitoneal or intramuscular injections of 
the antiscorbutic element exert no effect on the course of the disease(70, 
72). When introduced direct into the blood stream it can exert its 
characteristic effect and several cases of advanced infantile scurvy have 
benefited by this method of administration. Lemon juice obtained under 
sterile conditions is boiled five minutes, cooled and rendered neutral or 



236 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAIIINES 

faintly alkaline with normal sodium hydroxide and immediately intro- 
duced into the vein. 

While the body normally possesses a reserve of this essential substance 
this storage power cannot be increased and built up by excessive adminis- 
tration of the antiscorbutic factor. It has been proved that an animal 
given an excess will develop scurvy within the same period as those who 
have had, at the onset of the investigation, only the normal supply (81). 
Animals which have been on a prolonged scorbutic diet still possess a 
demonstrable amount of the vitamine in the liver tissue so that, as in the 
case of the antineuritic factor, there is always an irreducible minimum 
present in tissues during a period of vitamine starvation. It is probable 
that the liver has a greater capacity for storing and retaining these factors 
than the other tissues or organs (87). 

SOME SPECIAL APPLICATION OF THE VITAMINE THEORY 

Vitamines in Bread — This article has formed the principal staple 
article of diet of the human race from the time when man became pastoral 
and cereal grains became universally cultivated. To render these more 
edible and digestible various procedures were resorted to to obtain a 
powdery meal which could be mixed with water and baked. The pre- 
historic and ancient flours thus obtained consisted of the whole grain with 
the exception of the husk or chaff. With the progress of civilization and 
the gradual development of the milling industry various refinements were 
introduced, leading to the elimination of more and more of the bran and 
giving a flour and bread of a lighter color but still containing a large por- 
tion of the germ and aleurone layer of the grain. In the last fifty years 
the milling industry developed from a local to a centralized industry, 
employing larger capital and greater mechanical plants which have con- 
stantly been improved upon. The coincident development of the commer- 
cial baking industry has also presented problems which have been solved 
by the production of the modem patent white fiour which practically con- 
sists of the starchy endosperm with but traces of the germ and aleurone 
layer of the original grain. 

Only two vitamines are present in the original cereal grain — the water 
soluble "B" localized in the germ and to a large extent in the aleurone 
layer and the fat soluble "A" factor confined to the germ of the wheat or 
corn grain. In the case of the modern patent white flours and breads only 
traces of either of these essential compounds would likely be present and 
clinical and experimental evidence proves that such is the case. Hol8t(88) 



THE VITAMINES 237 

foimd that a diet of white bread would ultimately bring on attacks of 
beriberi in pigeons, a fact which has had subsequent confirmation by other 
investigators (89, 90, 91). This is characteristic of the modern white 
flours while the whole wheat, graham flour and flours produced by the 
old fashioned buhr millstones possesses sufficient antineuritic power to 
protect animals against the onset of beriberi. 

Analysis of the ash of various samples of these flours shows that those 
exhibiting a vitamine deficiency were of low phosphorus content. Voegtlin 
and his collaborators have made exhaustive studies of the cereal grains 
with respect to the relation between the phosphates and the accessory fac- 
tors. Analytical data and biological experiment both prove that where 
the P2O5 content is less than 0.5 per cent there existed a deficiency of both 
the fat soluble "A" and antineuritic "B" vitamine. The meals and flours 
ranging from 0.5 to 0.9 per cent had excellent antineuritic properties 
and a relatively good supply of the fat soluble element, but were of the 
whole wheat class. In this connection it may be noticed that the P2O5 
content of the whole wheat grain itself is 1.1 per cent. An index of the 
fat soluble content of grains and flours is found in the analysis of the fat 
content as the two elements are closely interrelated. The fat content of 
corn and wheat ranges from 2.7 to 3.6 per cent but the fat is confined 
to the germ, which possesses as much as 15 to 23 per cent of fat. In 
actual experiment it was determined that where the fat soluble element 
was deficient the fat content was usually below 1.5 per cent. In all cases 
flours deficient in the antineuritic factor were likewise lacking in the fat 
soluble compound. In each case the P2O5 content and the fat percentage 
indicate the amount of milling the grain has received since the discarded 
portions in the production of white patent flours contain the major portions 
of the vitamine content of the original grain. Self-raising flours are an 
exception to this rule. 

In addition to the injurious factor introduced by the elimination of 
nearly all the accessory factors in the production of white flours certain 
conditions imposed by modern commercial and domestic baking practices 
tend to reduce the vital capacity of modern breads and pastry. Although 
the amount of yeast used theoretically should increase the accessory reserve 
in the bread, biological experiment indicates that it is practically negligible 
since the animals ultimately develop the characteristic deficiency disease 
at a later period than controls who do not get the yeast. In many cases 
casein and rice flour are used in the manufacture of bread, the former a 
vitamine deficient substance and the latter, as Eraser and Stanton 
state(36), deficient when the P205 content is less than 0.5 per cent, a 



238 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

condition found in commercial rice. Where baking soda is used as a 
leavening agent, even where the meal or flour possesses a relatively high 
vitamine index the bread obtained in this fashion has been shown to be 
deficient in its protective capacity. The heat of the oven converts the 
sodium bicarbonate into the alkaline carbonate with the evolution of car- 
bon dioxide, which "raised" the loaf, and the combination of the free 
alkali plus the high temperature of the oven resulted in the destruction of 
the vitamine. This was the case since pigeons developed beriberi on this 
type of bread while those fed on bread made from the same flour and milk 
but with salt in place of the baking soda remained healthy. This condition 
can be remedied by the use of suflicient sour milk or addition of enough 
tartaric acid to neutralize the free alkali formed. Many baking powders 
contain the requisite amount of acid to neutralize the alkali formed by 
the heat. 

In some cases low grade brown flours may be bleached to improve their 
selling properties. The agents usually used are chlorine and peroxide of 
hydrogen. Both of these are powerful oxidizing agents and would destroy 
any of the fat soluble element present. 

Clinical experience has always favored the use of whole wheat and 
brown breads. It has often been noted that in children's institutions that 
where brown breads were used the teeth were less subject to decay and 
better formed than was the case if white bread was consumed. This can 
be attributed largely to the action of the fat soluble factor and not as 
popularly believed, to the cleansing action of the coarser texture of the 
brown bread. The use of war bread was a step in the right direction but 
the public taste combined with the difiiculties it introduced into domestic 
baking practice rendered it unpopular In parts of Europe where black 
bread and coarser flours are almost universally used few, if any, of the 
pellagra like conditions are found which exist in American communities 
which are dependent upon white flours for their bread. 

Vitamines in Milk — Milk is the diet provided by nature for the nutri- 
tion of the young manunal and must therefore provide all the necessities 
for orderly metabolism. To be complete from the dietary standpoint it 
must contain the three members of the vitamine group. Since these must 
find their way to the mammary gland from the maternal diet the quantity 
of each will necessarily vary with the vitamine content of the original 
foodstuffs themselves. 

The water soluble accessory is always present in fresh milk and has the 
same stability to reagents, heat and storage that this element has in aqueous 
solution. Even when milk is desiccated by any of the commercial processes 



THE VITAMINES 239 

the presence of this element can be demonstrated in apparently undimin- 
ished activity. When the cream is removed by centrifuging, the major 
portion of the antineuritic vitamine will be removed with it, being adsorbed 
on the surface of the fat globule, and partly by solution in the fat itself. 
Various substances prepared from milk like casein, lactose, etc., used in 
feeding experiments with synthetic diets, have retained a sufficient quan- 
tity by adsorption or occlusion to exert an appreciable stimulus upon the 
growth of the young animal. 

The amount of the fat soluble "A" accessory in the milk will likewise 
vary with the intake of this substance in the diet and also possesses the 
same properties as indicated in the section on the fat soluble factor. A 
striking illustration of the variation that milk can show is given in a 
description of some clinical work done in Vienna by Chick (93) upon 
breast-fed infants which had shown a negligible growth increment since 
birth. In these cases addition of codliver oil and butter to the diet of the 
mother in quantities of 5 to 50 grams daily with 10 to 30 grams turnip 
juice brought about a remarkable change in the rate of growth of the 
infant. In every case the curve, previously almost horizontal, immediately 
became an ascending one, remaining so until the completion of the experi- 
ment. 

Cow's milk has been the principal reliance of the pediatrician in the 
dietary of children not yet having reached the age' of weaning. Its pro- 
tective capacity against scurvy has been the subject of much research as 
the voluminous literature indicates. As an ideal antiscorbutic it leaves 
much to be desired. There is a variation which may reach considerable 
proportions, dependant on the fodder of the animals in question. When 
given a ration of dried food adequate as respects the A and B accessories 
but deficient in antiscorbutic power, the milk produced was unable to pro- 
tect guinea pigs against scurvy (94). After three weeks' pasturage the 
milk had again become antiscorbutic and was able to exert its full pro- 
tective power against the onset of the disease. This has also been con- 
firmed by the investigations of Steenbock(95) on a group of cows which 
had been fed for years on a diet of dried roughages and grains. Here 
again the milk was distinctly below the protective level of that obtained 
from cows on summer pasture. Likewise the winter ration of cows in 
vogue in the American corn belt produced a milk distinctly inferior in 
antiscorbutic power to that obtained from cows on a diet of green fodder. 
Dutcher(96) reports that the milk from two cows fed on a diet of low 
vitamine content was markedly lower in antiscorbutic potency than that 
obtained when the diet was made adequate in its accessory content. 



240 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

The quantity of the milk consumed by the animal in question is also 
an important factor in determining the protective power of this substance 
against the development of scurvy. Guinea pigs on a basal diet of oats, 
bran, water and 60 c. c. autoclaved milk daily gave a normal growth curve 
until the onset of scurvy. Less than 50 c.c. fresh milk daily had no 
protective action over that exercised by the autoclaved milk ration. 
Amounts of from 50 to 100 c.c. fresh milk daily exercised a partial anti- 
scorbutic action varying directly with the quantity consumed in the daily 
ration and complete protection did not ensue until 100 to 150 c.c. per 
diem were included in the diet. For a guinea pig this amounts to a com- 
plete milk diet (97). Experiments with monkeys also indicate that rela- 
tively large quantities of milk are necessary to exercise the full protective 
effect against scurvy. Animals of this type, 2 to 3 kilos in weight, did 
not resist the onset of the disease unless the daily minimum was at least 
100 c.c. Hess and linger (94) found that the equivalent of 80 c.c. fresh 
milk per diem was required and Hart (95) and his co-workers state that 
50 c.c. of summer milk and 75 c.c. of winter milk are necessary to render 
the guinea pig safe from scurvy. That this question of quantity in rela- 
tion to the development of human scurvy is a moot one is borne out by 
clinical experience. Curran(98) recorded the development of scurvy in 
cases where the daily ration included 1 pint of milk for a period of over 
six months., Parkes also found that 500 to 750 c.c. of raw milk was 
insufficient as an antiscorbutic (99). According to Hess (86) the minimum 
for protection against infantile scurvy is 500 c.c. daily and quantities 
below this amount fail to exercise a complete defense. 

The treatment of milk by heat, pasteurization, and desiccation has an 
important bearing on its antiscorbutic potency. Hess and rish(lOO) 
record the development of subacute infantile scurvy in an infant asylum 
where pasteurized milk (63° for 30 minutes) had formed the diet. In 
this case the attack took seven months to develop. These investigators 
believe that pasteurization, combined with storage is the factor responsible 
for the outbreak and regard seventy-four hours' storage after pasteurization 
as the limit of safety to be observed in such cases. Scalding the milk to 
render it sterile has been found to effect little deterioration on the anti- 
scorbutic power. In one case milk was brought to a boil and allowed to 
cool spontaneously. The time during which this milk was exposed to tem- 
perature ranging from 70° to 100° C. was five and a half minutes. Two 
hundred c.c. of this milk, daily, effected a cure in a scorbutic mon- 
key(lOl). Autoclaving the milk for one hour at 120° C. effects a complete 
destruction of the antiscorbutic vitamine and this procedure is used in 



THE VITAMINES 241 

giving a guinea pig a ration containing the A and B vitamine factors in 
basal diets which regularly produce scurvy. The process of condensing 
milk does not appreciably affect its antiscorbutic capacity since monkeys 
consuming the equivalent of 150 c.c. fresh milk daily exhibited a marked 
resistance to the onset of scurvy (102). In this case the condensation was 
effected at 50° C. for three hours in a vacuum pan and the vitamine was 
therefore protected from oxidation. 

There are a number of commercial desiccated milk preparations on the 
market and the dehydration is carried out by two processes. The Just 
Hatmaker process dries the milk by means of steam heated rollers at about 
115° C. The time of exposure to this temperature is only a few seconds. 
The spray or Bevenot de Neveu process consists of forcing condensed milk 
through an atomizing jet at enormous pressure against an opposing air 
current heated to 70° C. In this case the desiccation takes place by the 
time the falling droplet has reached the bottom of the chamber and requires 
only a few seconds. Barnes and Hume found that milk dehydrated by 
the Just process had lost about fifty per cent of its antiscorbutic power. 
They found that the monkeys required the dried equivalent of 300 c.c. 
of fresh milk to exert any protective effect. Hess (103) sets the minimum 
of dried milk at that equal to 80 c.c. fresh milk for the adequate protection 
of scurvy in guinea pigs, but the basal diet that he used included a quan- 
tity of hay and this may have exerted a partial antiscorbutic effect, although 
they report the same effect when the guinea pigs are fed on a basal diet 
of oats and bran(94). Hart has carried out a number of experiments with 
respect to the action of the various desiccation processes in relation to 
antiscorbutic power and also states that the Just method is the more effect- 
ive in preserving the antiscorbutic vitamine. This procedure showed a 
superiority in this respect to powders prepared by the spray processes in 
commercial use. The dried milks also showed a variation in antiscorbutic 
power depending on the fodder of the cow and season of the year (95). 
In view of the fact that these dried products are defective in antiscorbutic 
power, it is necessary to supplement these products when used in infant 
feeding with an antiscorbutic ration. Raw orange juice, or even raw 
turnip juice has been found effective in supplying the deficiency and 
raw or canned tomato juice has been demonstrated to have a similar 
function. 

Vitamines in Growth Processes — The relation of the accessory factors in 
the metabolism of the adolescent animal has only been recently determined. 
The solution was reacted by means of the feeding experiments carried out 
with a basal diet composed of purified food substances. In these experi- 



242 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

ments diet mixtures are made up in various proportions as illustrated by 
the following: 

Casein . . 22 Fat . . 30 Starch . . 35 Sugar . . 10 Salt mixture . . 3 

These proportions are variable within fixed limits and these diet mix- 
tures have been used by various authors. The earliest recorded observation 
on the quality of the food mixture is that by Lunin(104). In his feeding 
experiments he had recourse to powdered milk which was subjected to 
analysis and the components determined. On the basis of this analytical 
data he experimented with artificial dried milk powder which, he stated, 
was not so effective as the natural milk residue in promoting the growth 
of the animals subsisting on it, as the animals did not live more than a 
month on the former mixture. He attributed the difference of the presence 
of some essential factors present in the natural milk residue and hazarded 
a supposition that the phosjjhates in the natural milk ration might be 
combined with some organic form which was more capable of utilization. 

Henriques and Hansen, and Osborne and Mendel used basal dietary 
mixtures of the type shown above but their interest was centered on the 
protein and amino acids, and purity of these elements was the principal 
consideration. In the experiments of the latter authors the diets consisted 
of 28 per cent of protein free milk powder, a compound later proven to be 
rich in the water soluble accessory. Stepp(105) carried out a number of 
experiments on mice and found that natural foodstuffs capable of main- 
taining life for several months lost this power when extracted with alcohol 
and ether and animals fed on the extracted material died within a month. 
Addition of the residue from the alcoholic extract restored to these mix- 
tures their original vital capacity. Fractionation of these residues elim- 
inated the ash as the active element and administration of purified neutral 
fats were likewise inert, but it was found that milk and egg yolk contained 
the factors indispensable for the continuation of the life of these animals. 
Stepp concluded that the lipoids were either this indispensable unit or were 
carriers of this important element. 

Hopkins (106), in a series of experiments extending over several years, 
fed animals on basal diets of the kind indicated in the opening paragraph. 
When the various substances employed in the mixture were used in the 
crude commercial state the animals could live and grow to a limited extent 
when utilizing this diet. Invariably decline and death ensued if the 
various elements had been carefully purified before being mixed. These 
purified dietary mixtures were again fully adequate for nutrition and 
growth if the animals were given in addition 2 to 3 cc. of milk per diem. 



THE VITAMINES 242a 

although the milk solids amounted at the most to not more than four per 
cent of the total daily intake. Withdrawal of the milk always resulted 
in cessation of the growth and decline in weight of the animal. Hopkins 
held that the vital factor was an organic complex which the animal body 
could not synthesize. Subsequent researches demonstrated the presence of 
the essential element in dried yeast, which could stimulate the normal 
growth of the animal when present to the extent of 2 per cent or less in 
the basal diet mixture(107) and even the liquor obtained from the autolysis 
of yeast cells. Later attempts to separate the active substance from the 
autolysed yeast liquors with various reagents were only partially success- 
ful. Phosphotungstic acid precipitated the major portion from solutions; 
but the residue, after separation of the phosphotungstic acid, had only a 
partial activity as compared with the original yeast and further fraction- 
ation of the phosphotungstic precipitates had effected complete destruction 
of the activity of the residue(108, 109). Lloyd's reagent could adsorb 
and retain nearly all the growth promoting factor from the yeast autolysate 
with little depreciation of its functional activity. It is now conceded that 
this substance in question is the water soluble vitamine, although a glance 
through the literature indicates the opinion in some cases, that the anti- 
neuritic and growth promoting properties may not be confined to one 
vitamine but embodied in two separate identities. 

McCollum and Davis(llO) in a series of feeding experiments on 
mixtures of casein, lard, lactose and salts found that such diets would per- 
mit the maintenance of life and normal growth for a period of eight weeks, 
after which growth ceased. It was resumed when the ether soluble fraction 
from egg yolk or butter fat was added to the above mixtures to the extent 
of 5 to 10 per cent of the total mixture. These additions would enable the 
animal to carry on and ultimately attain adult weight. Osborne and 
Mendel (111) were able to carry out successful growth experiments upon 
young rats for ninety days. They likewise found that at this period growth 
ceased and was often succeeded by the development of Xerophthalmia, 
When the lard in the diet mixture was replaced by the butter fat and the 
olein fraction (59) from highly purified butter fat, the eye infection dis- 
appeared and the growth curve resumed a normal upward trend till adult 
life was reached. These were the original discoveries of the fat soluble 
accessory and its effect on the rate of growth of adolescent animals. While 
the rate of growth responds more rapidly when the diet is deficient in the 
water soluble accessory, it is apparent from these two instances that 
adolescent animals can carry on for a much longer time in the absence of 
the fat soluble vitamine. In the case of adult animals the keratomalacia 



2426 SIGNIFICANCE ©F LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

is the principal symptom since the requirements of the fat soluble factor 
are not so great as during the period of adolescence. All the articles quoted 
indicate the effect on growth of the presence or absence of the fat soluble 
factor in the presence of the antineuritic vitamine, since the lactose used by 
McCollum had sufficient adsorbed water soluble factor to supply the ani- 
mals during the experimental period. In the diets used by Osborne and 
Mendel 28 per cent consists of the desiccated residue from protein free 
milk, which was fully adequate in respect of its antineuritic content. 

Rats do not develop a scorbutic syndrome like guinea pigs and it 
is not easy to get a sharp, clean-cut demonstration of the action or 
withdrawal of the antiscorbutic factor. Growth on artificial food 
mixtures is usually slower than the rate obtained when the subject of 
the experiment subsists on natural foodstuffs. Diets containing the anti- 
scorbutic and fat soluble factors produce practically no growth, as is also 
the case when the diet contains the water soluble factor alone, but when all 
these factors are present in the artificial diet mixtures the growth curve 
advances much faster and produce a greater body weight than controls 
who were supplied with the same basal diet but containing only the fat and 
water soluble elements(112). It would appear that rats are susceptible 
to a deficiency of the antiscorbutic element in so far as their growth rate 
is concerned. The effect of the antiscorbutic deficiency is more clearly 
indicated in studies upon experimental scurvy (see literature on antiscor- 
butic vitamine) since the basal diet of oats, bran, water and autoclaved 
milk, the latter containing the fat and water soluble factor, will speedily 
bring about a cessation in the rate of growth followed by loss and ulti- 
mately the development of scurvy and death of the animal (84). 

While nearly all the research upon the importance of vitamine to the 
animal metabolism has been performed on mammals some work has been 
carried out with the use of frogs as subjects for experimental work. Tad- 
poles show a response to the presence or absence of the A and B vitamine. 
When both were absent from the food supply the growth and development 
are letarded as compared with those getting an adequate supply. Like the 
mammals the response to the action of the antineuritic factor was more 
rapidly observed than when the fat soluble factor was added to or removed 
from the food supply, but on the whole the experience with tadpoles has 
not been satisfactory since the components, other than the vitamines in the 
basal diets in use, affect the rate of growth and their status in the reptilian 
metabolism has not been as clearly established as is the case with mammals. 
Adult frogs, where deprived of the A and B factors, usually die in four 
months, and the latter element is essential for the continuance of life of 



THE VITAMINES 242c 

the animal. The response to the deprivation of the A (the diet including 
the B factor) does not become apparent during the duration of the experi- 
ment. The antiscorbutic factor does not exercise any effect noticeable by- 
removal or addition to the diet (113, 114). 

Whether the vitamines are of importance in insect nutrition is a 
pertinent question. Drosophila, the banana fly, can be rendered aseptic 
and hatched out free from contamination by microorganisms by treating 
the eggs with bichloride of mercury. These aseptic larvae, grow^n on sterile 
banana cultures, did not thrive, grew very slowly and only a few reached 
the pupa stage, being at that time only one-fourth the normal size and even 
these did not give rise to second generation. Sterile eggs placed in a media 
containing sterilized dead yeast developed normally and several successive 
generations were hatched out. The difference between the two sets is 
striking and attempts at separating out the active substance from the yeast 
by means of alcohol resulted in loss of the essential factor. The number 
of flies that will develop on a sterile yeast banana culture depends on the 
proportion of yeast in the mixture, the most effective one consisting of 
one-third yeast. The bacteria and yeast cells are apparently necessary in 
the case of these insects to provide a sufficient supply of the water soluble 
vitamine to enable them to develop normally and become sexually mature 
(115, 116). 

When we consider the case of microorganisms it would be presumed 
that these forms, on account of their cyclopoietic activity, could synthesize 
their own supply of vitamine. Alcoholic extracts from typhoid bacilli 
grown upon Uschinsky's asparagin medium have been found to contain 
the water soluble vitamine (117). 

The presence of some vitamine-like compound can accelerate the growth 
of Pfeiffer's influenza bacillus. Extracts of yeast and fresh vegetables have 
a marked stimulating action upon the development of the colonies and the 
active substance is destroyed by heating in the autoclave (118). Agulhon 
states that these organisms could only be grown on media containing the 
vitamines. Meningococci can grow more readily upon media containing 
elements similar to the accessory substances, elements which are moderately 
heat stable, soluble in water and alcohol and capable of adsorption by filter 
paper. Lloyd(120) believes that the function of these essential factors 
increases the velocity of the proleolytic metabolism of the organism. On 
the other hand McLeod and Wyon(121) find that the staphylococci and 
meningococci do not show any reaction to the presence of the water soluble 
antineuritic factor when this is added to artificial media. 

Of all the microorganisms yeast lends itself most readily to culture 



242^ SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

upon artificial media. These consist of salt mixtures with ammonium 
salts, sugar, and in some cases, amino acids. It has been a common practice 
to grow yeast cells upon such media for many years. Wildiers in 1901(112) 
made the discovery that sterile aqueous extract of yeast cells could rapidly 
increase the rate of proliferation and fermentation of the yeast cultures on 
the artificial media. The essential element he termed "Bios." This factor 
was soluble in water, 80 per cent alcohol but insoluble in ether. It was 
stable in the presence of acids but rendered inactive when heated with 
alkali. Within recent years attention has become focused on the identity 
of this active substance. Williams has confirmed Wilders' statement 
regarding the essential nature of this compound and finds that material 
containing the water soluble vitamine can cause a very marked increase in 
the rate of proliferation, even when the concentration of the vitamine solu- 
tion was extremely low (about 1 to 60,000). 

That yeast can synthesize enough of the growth promoting substance 
from these accessory free media is shown by the fact that the yeast so 
produced can adequately replace the water soluble factor in artificial diet 
mixtures in experiments on rats (124, 125). Recently McCollum(126) 
and Fulmer(127) have questioned the identity of this "Bios" and state 
that yeasts will grow upon artificial media to which these extracts have 
been added, after inactivating any possible antineuritic vitamine by the 
action of heat and alkali and still yield the same rate of growth as upon 
the original untreated accessory solution, but Ide(128) still maintains 
that the "Bios" is an essential substance of the nature of the water sol- 
uble "B" but does not as yet believe that the two are identical. 

The higher botanical forms, although they can synthesize their own 
supply of accessory factors yet they will, like the yeast cell, respond to 
an external supply and show a definite increment in the rate of growth 
over control plants who have to depend on their own cyclopoietic power. 
Rosenheim (129) used primula seedlings grown in pots. One set were 
used as controls and the experimental group were treated with GO c. c. 
of an extract prepared from "rotted" peat. This was sufficient to enable 
them to grow to nearly half as large again as the controls in the same 
duration of time. The extract gave some of the qualitative reactions 
associated with the antineuritic vitamine while the extract of the unrotted 
peat gave only faint responses to these tests. The organisms necessary 
for the conversion of the peat from the original to the "rotted" form were 
responsible for the difference in the behaviour to chemical reagents and 
the increase in the production of the growth promoting factor. 

To any one who has seen the rate at which malignant forms of neo- 



THE VITAMINES 242e 

jilasms develop, often upon emaciated subjects, and the rapid development 
of strains of transplantable mouse tumors; it would seem probable that 
these cells had special properties v^hich were independent of the limita- 
tions of normal growing tissue, and could synthesize their own supply 
of vitamine. Funk(130) investigated the reaction of Kous chicken sar- 
coma to the presence or absence of the accessory factors in the diet. While 
the experiments were unsatisfactory, as a general rule the inoculations 
of the tumor developed more rapidly and gave a larger proportion of 
growths from transplants when the vitamine intake of the birds was at 
its maximum. In the case of rat tumors the vitamine ration can be more 
accurately regulated and Benedict and Rahe(131) found that the inoccu- 
lations grew more rapidly and reached a greater size when the accessory 
supply was abundant, than when it was barely sufficient to provide for 
the maintenance of the host. In this latter case a lower proportion of 
successful transplants followed and the tumors grew slowly at the expense 
of the vitamine supply of the host. Drummond's experiments on rat 
tumors demonstrated the fact that the tumors would only grow upon 
hosts with an adequate reserve of the water soluble and fat soluble factors 
and that the withdrawal of the former from the diet of the host was fol- 
lowed by a slowing in the rate of growth of the neoplasm, which, how- 
ever, could grow for a considerable time without decline, if the diet 
contained the water soluble factor alone, after elimination of the fat 
soluble substance from the food mixture (132). It is apparent that these 
neoplastic tissues obey the same laws as the tissues from which they 
originate. 

Vitamines in Pellagra — The brilliant results obtained by application 
of the knowledge of the vitamine group, in revealing the etiology of the 
deficiency diseases of the acute type, have led to the examination of the 
etiology of pellagra in regard to its relation with these all important 
compounds. The work of Goldberger and his associates have shown that 
the vitamines are in part related to the incidence of the disease. In their 
earlier experiments they selected two orphanages and a hospital for the 
insane where pellagra had been incident for a number of years. The 
diets in current use in these places were supplemented with the addition 
of milk, fresh meat, eggs and dried beans which effected a disappearance 
of recurrences, while none of the healthy individuals developed pellagrine 
symptoms (133). Later experiments on a prison farm on diets similar 
to those upon which pellagrins were known to subsist, proved conclusively 
that the dietary factor was responsible for the incidences of the dis- 
ease(134), but the conclusions arrived at indicated that the deficiency, 



242/ SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

while associated with the lack of fat and water soluble factors, was also 
related to the lack of suitable protein and salt. Biological tests of the 
pellagra producing diets on fowls confirmed the absence of the anti- 
neuritic factor and experiments with rats also showed a deficiency in the 
fat soluble element and confirmed the various conclusions as to the lack 
of salt, amino-acid and protein balance. 

Voegtlin(135) was able to derive definite improvement in cases of 
this disease where vitamine was prepared by extracting liver and thymus, 
but little or no benefit followed the use of these substances derived from 
yeast and rice polish. 

McCarrison,(44) in his studies of the pathology of monkeys fed on 
autoclaved food, presents a close analogy to the clinical picture found in 
the digestive tract of pellagrins. There was a close resemblance in the 
appearance and condition of the intestinal canal common in both cases. 
This author believes that the pellagrinous state may follow a low or defi- 
cient vitamine intake which produces the degenerated intestinal condition. 
This in turn leads to a faulty protein assimilation where the supply is 
adequate and the disease may be the combined result of the protein and 
vitamine deficiency, the former being due to a faulty assimilation or 
actual dietary deprivation of this element. 

Critical examination of the diets in regions in America where pellagra 
is endemic all show that these consist of highly milled cereals, corn and 
fat pork (usually salted) ; that the breads are derived from highly milled 
cereals and usually prepared with baking soda in such a manner as to 
inactivate their vitamine content. The proteins of these cereal grains in 
use are also as a rule deficient in certain amino-acids essential for the 
maintenance of normal metabolism. In these districts the population 
is on a low economic basis and cannot afford to purchase adequate sup- 
plies of animal protein such as fresh meat, milk, eggs, etc., and coinci- 
dently a sufficiency in vitamine in take which accompanies these high 
priced foodstuffs. In the above-mentioned districts the rising cost of 
foodstuffs of an essential nature has led to an elimination of these from 
the diet of the population in the affected area and followed by the spread 
of the pellagra outbreak. 

Vitamines in Rickets — The first definite relationship between this con- 
dition and dietary deficiencies was pointed out by Mellanby(136). He 
was able to produce a condition in pups resembling rickets by employing 
diets which developed this pathological picture and making such addi- 
tions to these which would be likely to influence the disease. Those 
materials which prevented the development of the disease consisted prin- 



THE VITAMINES 242^ 

cipally of fats, some rich in the fat soluble factor, while others from plant 
sources, deficient in this element, exercised a partial prophylactic effect 
directly proportional to their content of the "A" vitamine. The most 
potent antirachitic foodstuffs were milk and codliver oil. Radiographs 
of the long bones in the pathological cases showed the usual appearance 
associated with rickets. Analysis of the bones gave figures indicating 
a low content in calcium and it was also noticed that the normal develop- 
ment of the teeth was likewise associated with an adequate supply of 
the fat soluble "A" vitamine. This factor responsible for the development 
of the teeth has been termed the vitamine ''X" and its identity is still 
a matter for experiment to solve (137). 

One of the functions of the fat soluble "A" vitamine is the regulation 
of the calcium metabolism. Hart has shown that codliver oil can change 
the calcium balance from a negative to a positive one in goats, but butter 
fat is without this characteristic effect (138). The suggestion of Mel- 
lanby's that there might be an additional vitamine whose function was 
concerned with formation of teeth also finds a confirmation to a certain 
extent in the work of McCoUum who presents experimental evidence in 
favor of the theory that the fat soluble antixerophthalmic factor may be 
distinct from that concerned with the calcium metabolism. This latter 
element is present to the greatest extent in codliver oil (139, 140). When 
diets were used that were low in calcium but normal in phosphates these 
essential fat soluble factors were very effective in improving the condi- 
tion of the animals. The superiority of codliver oil was again demon- 
strated and was ten to twenty times more effective than butter fat. When 
the calcium factor in the diet increased, the differences in the activity 
of the codliver oil and butter fat were less noticeable and disappeared 
when the exogenous supply of lime was about half the normal requirement. 
These authors conclude that the codliver oil contains a factor, which 
regulates the lime metabolism, distinct in identity from the fat soluble 
"A" vitamine in butter fat; whose antixerophthalmic and growth proper- 
ties have been demonstrated in earlier research on the vitamines(140). 

The action of codliver oil in promoting the calcium metabolism and 
its resultant action on the development of bone is well illustrated by the 
radiographic experiments conducted by Park and Howland(141). They 
have proven the beneficial effect of the vitamines of codliver oil upon 
the bone metabolism. These cases showed, from the end of the first 
month, a marked change for the better and at the end of three months 
the X-ray appearances were similar to those obtained from normal sub- 
jects, with the exception of such deformities resulting from the disease. 



242/1 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

These authors also emphasize the superiority of codliver oil which, they 
state, is not replaceable by any other source of the fat soluble element. 

These experimental researches do not exclude the possibility of other 
factors such as the lack of light and unsanitary conditions being respon- 
sible for the production of rickets, as well as the dietary factor. There 
is abundant experimental evidence to justify such a conclusion, discus- 
sion of which is without the scope of this chapter. 



REFERENCES 
The Lipoids 

1. McCoLLUM and Davis. J. Biol. Chem., xv, p. 167. 

2. Landers. Biochem. J., vii, p. 78. 

3. McCoLLUM. J. Biol. Chem., xii, p. IL 

4. VoEGTLiN and Sullivan. Science, 1913, pp. 672, 964. 

5. LoEB and Beutner. Ibid., p. 672. 

6. LiLLiE. Ibid., p. 967. 

The Vitamines 

1. Eng. Med. Research Comm. Special Report, No. 38. 

2. Eykmann. Virchow's Archiv., cxlix, p. 187. 

3. . Archiv. d. Hygiene, Iviii, p. 150. 

4. Osborne and Mendel. J. Biol. Chem., xl, p. 383. 

5. ZiLVA and Miura. Biochem. J., xiv, p. 422. 

6. Funk. J. Physiol., xliii, p. 395. 

7. Steenbock. J. Biol. Chem., xxix, p. 27. 

8. Williams and Seidell. J. Biol. Chem., xxvi, p. 431. 

9. Vedder and Williams. Phil. J. Science, B., viii, p. 175. 

10. Shiga and Kusama. Arch. f. Schilf u. Tropen Hyg. Bei 3. 

11. Funk. J. Physiol., xlv, p. 75. 

12. . Biochemical Bulletin, v, p. 1. 

13. Suzuki Shimamura and Odake. Biochem. Zeit., xxii, p. 452. 

14. HoFMEisTER. Biochem. Zeit., ciii, p. 218. 

15. Eadie, Moore, Simpson, and Webster. Biochem. J., vi, p. 234. 

16. Seidell. U. S. Pub. Health Reports, xxxvi, p. 665. 

17. Funk. Brit. Med. J., April 19, 1913. 

18. Chamberlin and Vedder. Phil. J. Science, B., Hii, p. 175. 

19. Harden and De Zilva. Biochem. J., xii, p. 93, 



THE VITAMINES 242i 

20. Seidell. J. Am. Chem. Soc, xl, p. 315. 

21. Emmet and McKim. J. Biol. Chem., xxxii, p. 409. 

22. Seidell. J. Biol. Chem., xxix, p. 145. 

23. Williams and Seidell. J. Biol. Chem., xxvi, p. 431. 

24. SuGiURA. J. Biol. Chem., xxxvi, p. 191. 

25. Funk. J. Physiol., xlvi, p. 173. 

26. Eddy. Proe. Soc. Exp. Biol, and Med., xiv, p. 164. 

27. Funk and Macallum. Biochem. J., vii, p. 356. 

28. NicoLET and Lewis. J. Biol. Chem,, xvi, p. 369. 

29. Williams. J. Biol. Chem., xxxix, p. 235. 

30. . J. Biol. Chem., xlii, p. 259. 

31. Eddy and Stevenson. J. Biol. Chem., xliii, p. 295. 

32. Fulmer, et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc, xliii, pp. 186, 191 ; J. Biol. 

Chem., xlvi, p. 77. 

33. Funk and Dubin. J. Biol. Chem., xliv, p. 487. 

34. Bachmann. J. Biol. Chem., xxxix, p. 235. 

35. McCollum and Souza. J. Biol. Chem., xliv, p. 113. 

36. Eraser and Stanton. Studies Med. Inst. Malay States, x, p. 11. 

37. Voegtlin, Sullivan and Meyers. U. S. Pub. Health Reports, 

xxxi, p. 935. 

38. Voegtlin, Meyers and Lake. U. S. Pub. Health Reports, xxxiii, 

p. 647. 

39. Funk. J. Physiol., xlv, p. 489. 

40. Williams. J. Biol. Chem., xxix, p. 495. 

41. Harden and De Zilva. Biochem. J., xi, p. 171. 

42. McCollum, Simmonds and Pitz. J. Biol. Chem., xxxiii, p. 55. 

43. Dutcher. Proc. Xat. Acad. Science, vi, p. 10. 

44. McCarrison. Pathenogenesis of Deficiency Diseases, Oxford, 

1921. 

45. Ullmann. Beitrage z. Pharmakologie der Vitamine, Munich, 

191«. 

46. Dutcher and Adams. J. Biol. Chem., xxxvi, p. 63 and Collatz. 

J. Biol. Chem., xxxvi, p. 55. 

47. MoRGULis. Am. J. Physiol., Ivii, p. 125. 

48. FiNDLAY. Biochem. J., xv, p. 104. 

49. Funk. Zeit. f. Physiol. Chem., Ixxxix, pp. 373, 378. 

50. Fuji. Jap. Med. Lit., ill, p. 20. 

52. Osborne and Mendel. J. Biol. Chem., xvii, p. 421. 

53. ZiLVA. Biochem. J., xiv, p. 740. 

54. Hopkins. Biochem. J., xiv, p. 720. 



242; SIGNIFICAXCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

55. Deummond. Biochem. J., xiv, p. 734. 

56. Steenbock and Boutwell. J. Biol. Chem., xlii, p. 131. 

57. Repoet Food Investigation Boaed. London, 1920. 

58. OsBOENE and Mendel. J. Biol. Chem., xvi, p. 423. 

59. Deummond. Biochem. J., xiii, p. 91. 

60. CowAED and Deummond. Biochem. J., xv, p. 530. 

61. ZiLVA and Miuea. Biochem. J., xv, p. 654. 

62. Palmee and Kempsteeee. J. Biol. Chem., xxxix, p. 299. 

63. Stephenson. Biochem. J., xiv, p. 715. 

64. Steenbock, Sell and Buell. J. Biol. Chem., xlvii, pp. 89, 303. 

65. Rosenheim and Deummond. Lancet, 1920, i, p. 862. 

66. Hume. Biochem. J., xv, p. 30, 

67. OsBOENE and Mendel. J. Am. Med. Assn., Ixxvi, p. 905. 

68. Block. J. Hygiene, xix, p. 283. 

69. Osboene and Mendel. J. Am. Med. Assn., Ixix, p. 32. 

70. HoLST and Feolich. Zeit. f. Hyg. u. Infectionskrank, Ixii, p. 1. 

71. Hess and Ungee. J. Biol. Chem., xxxv, p. 487. 

72. Haeden and De Zilva. Biochem, J., xii, p. 259. 

73. Ellis, Steenbock and Habt. J. Biol. Chem,, xlvi, p. 367. 

74. Haeden and De Zilva. Biochem, J,, xii, p, 93, 

75. Feolich. Zeit. f. Hyg. u. Infectionskrank, Ixxii, p, 155, 

76. Hess and Ungee. Proc. Soc, Exp, Biol, and Med,, xviii, p. 143. 

77. De Zilva. Lancet, 1921, i, p. 478, 

78. Hess and Ungee. J. Am. Med. Assn., Ixxiii, p. 1353. 

79. De Zilva. Biochem. J., xiii, p. 164. 

80. Smith. Lancet, Nov. 30, 1918. 

81. Haeden and De Zilva. Biochem. J., xii, p. 259. 

82. Haeden and Robinson. Biochem. J,, xiv, p, 171, 

83. GrvENs and McCluggage. Am. J. Dis, Children, xviii, p. 30. 

84. Delf. Biochem. J,, xii, p, 416. 

85. FuEEST. Zeit. f, Hyg, n, Infectionskrank, Ixxii, p. 121. 

86. Hess. Scurvy, Past and Present, p, 238. 

87. Paesons. J. Biol, Chem,, xliv, p, 587. 

88. HoLST. J, Hygiene, vii, p, 629. 

89. Simpson and Eadie. Ann, Trop. Med, and Parisitology, v, p, 321. 

90. Little. J, Am, Med. Assn., Iviii, p, 2029; Ixiii, p, 121. 

91. Ohlee, J. Med. Research, xxxi, p 239. 

92. VoEGTLiN, Lake and Meyees. U. S. Pub. Health Reprint, 

No, 333, p, 47, 

93. Chick. Brit. Med. Journal. July 31. 1920. 



THE VITAMINES 242/. 

94. Hess, Unger and Supplee. J. Biol. Chem., xlv, p. 231. 

95. Hart, Steenbock and Ellis. J. Biol. Chem., xlii, p. 383. 

96. DuTCHER, et al. J. Biol. Chem., xlv, p. 119. 

97. Chick, Hume and Skelton. Biochem. J., xii, p. 131. 

98. CuRRAN. Dublin J. Med. Science, vii, p. 83. 

99. Parkes. Med. Chir. Keview, 1848, Art. viii. 

100. Hess and Fish. Am. J. Dis. Children, viii, p. 385. 

101. Barnes and Hume. Biochem. J., xiii, p. 307. 

102. Hume. Biochem, J., xv, p. 163. 

103. Hess and Unger. J. Biol. Chem., xxxviii, p. 293. 

104. LuNiN. Zeit. f. Physiol. Chem., xix, p. 36. 

105. Stepp. Biochem. Zeit, Ivii, p. 135 ; Ixii, p. 405. 

106. Hopkins. J. Physiol., xliv, p. 432. 

107. Funk and Macallum. J. Biol. Chem., xxiii, p. 413; xxvii, 

pp. 57, 63. 

108. Macallum. Trans. Royal Can. Inst., 1919, p. 175. 

109. Eddy. J. Biol. Chem., xxvii, p. 113. 

110. McCollum and Davis. J. Biol. Chem., xiv, p. 167. 

111. Osborne and Mendel. J. Biol. Chem., xv, p. 311. 

112. Harden and De Zilva. Biochem. J., xii, p. 408. 

113. Emmet and Allen. J. Biol. Chem., xxxviii, p. 325. 

114. Harden and De Zilva, Biochem. J., xiv, p. 263. 

115. LoEB and Northrop. J. Biol. Chem,, xxvii, p. 309. 

116. Northrop. J. Biol. Chem., xxx, p. 180. 

117. Pacini and Russel. J. Biol. Chem., xxxiv, p. 43. 

118. Thiotta and Avery. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol, and Med., xviii, p. 197. 

119. Agulhon and Legroux. Compt. Rend., Ixvii, p. 597. 

120. Lloyd. J. Path, and BacterioL, xxi, p. 113. 

121. McLeod and Wyon. Ibid., xxiv, p. 205. 

122. Wildiers. La Celhile., 1901, xviii, p. 313. 

123. Williams. J. Biol. Chem., xxxviii, p. 465. 

124. Harden and De Zilva. Biochem. J., xiv, p. 438. 

125. Nelson, Fulmer, Ellis and Cessna. J. Biol. Chem., xlvi, p. 77. 

126. McCoLLUM and De Souza. J. Biol. Chem., xliv, p. 113. 

127. Fulmer, Nelson and Sherwood. J. Am. Chem. Soc, xliii, p. 

186. 

128. Ide. J. Biol. Chem., xlvi, p. 521. 

129. Rosenheim. Biochem. J., xi, p. 7. 

130. Funk. Lancet, July 10, 1914. 

131. Benedict and Rahe. J. Cancer Research, ii, p. 159. 



24:21 SIGNIFICANCE OF LIPOIDS AND VITAMINES 

132. Drummond. Biochem, J., xi, p. 325. 

133. GoLDBEKGER, et eI. U. S. Pub. Health Reports, xxx, pp. 3111, 

3116. 
334. . u. S. Pub. Health Bulletin No. 120, 1920. 

135. VoEGTLiN, Neill, and Hunter. U. S. Pub. Health Bulletin No. 

116, 1920. 

136. Mellanby. Med. R. S. Comm. Special Report No. 38. 

137. Mellanby, N. Brit. J. Dental Sc, Ixiv, p. 70. 

138. Hart, Steenbock and Hoppert. J. Biol. Chem., xlviii, p. 33. 

139. Shipley, Park, McCollum and Simmonds. Am. J. Hyg., 1921, 

i, p. 512. 

140. McCollum, Simmonds, Shipley and Park. J. Biol. Chem., 1, 

p. 5. 

141. Park and Howland. Bull. Johns Hopkins Hosp., xxxii, p. 341. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Eddy. The Vitamin Manual, Baltimore, 1921. 

Funk. The Vitamins. Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore, 1921. 

Hess. Scurvy, Past and Present, Philadel})hia, 1920. 

Medical Research Committee. Special Report No. 38, London, 1919. 

McCarrison. The Pathenogenesis of Deficiency Diseases, Oxford, 1921. 

McClean. The Lethecins and Allied Substances, London, 1920. 

Sherman and Smith. The Vitamins, New York, 1922. 



CHAPTEK IX 

THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 
Wtnfield S. Hall, PhD., M.D. 



Every hill of fare should he hased upon calorimetric experimentation; the 
practical trophodynamic consideration of the foodstuffs; due cognizance of the ail- 
ment of the patient, and no hill of fare should ever he a theoretical prescription 
culled from lists. 

Food as a Source of Heat and Growth : Introductory ; Unit and Method of 
Measurement; Heat by Combustion of Various Substances and Foods; 
Standard and Sample Dietaries; Caloric Values of Ingested Foods; 
Constructive and Fuel Foods; Caloric Requirement of Man; Calorific 
Value of Excretorj' Products ; Physiological Food Value. 
■ Calculation of Fuel Values of Food: Chemical Analyses of Foods; Method of 
Reckoning the Protein, Fat and Carbohydrate Rations for Diets of 
Definite Energy Values. 

Factors Governing the Amount of Food Required: Amount of Heat Lost by 
Body ; Weight of Body ; Age ; Sex ; Kind of Work ; Choice of Food ; 
Intensity of Muscular Activity. 

Regulation of Body Temperature: Physical Heat Regulation; Chemical Heat 
Regulation; The Surface Areas of tlie Skin in Heat Regulation; Regu- 
lation of Heat Loss; Production of Heat during Rest; Resume. 



FOOD AS A SOURCE OF HEAT AND GROWTH 

Introductory. — Probably no single contribution to tropbodynamics has 
been more fruitful in its consequence than the calories idea. It was no 
small achievement to put the body's need for physiological fuel upon a 
definite basis and to give a concrete significance to the trophodynamic 
factor in nutrition. Possibly in the remote past, Nature's scheme for 
feeding man did not contemplate the accurate measuring of his food, 
other than to provide him with healthy, normal instincts. At the present 
age, however, food requirements have become a matter of accurate estima- 
tion rather than animal intuition. Under-nutrition can be demonstrated 
by direct dieting investigations, the increased demands for food — fuel for 

243 



244 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

the working man, as well as the relative abundance of the ration for the 
infant at different stages of growth, need no longer remain veiled in the 
mystery of uncertainty. 

The past two decades have witnessed the developments of scientific 
methods, rendered possible by really accurate investigations relative to the 
trophodynamics of foods. "They show," declares Prof. Armsby, "that 
the transformations of chemical energy into heat and work in the animal 
body take place according to the same general laws and with the same 
equivalencies as in our artificial motors and in lifeless matter generally. 
The great law of the conservation of energy rules in the animal mech- 
anism, whether in man, carnivora or herbivora, just as in the engine. The 
body neither manufactures nor destroys energy. All that it gives out it 
gets from its food, and all that is supplied in its food is sooner or later 
recovered in some form. We are fully justified, therefore, in speaking 
of the food as body fuel, and in our studies of its utilization we may be 
confident that any food energy which does not reappear in the form of 
heat or work has not been lost, but has been stored up in the body as the 
chemical energy of meat, fat, etc., which may later serve to supply food- 
energy to the human body." 

Atwater(l), Langworthy(2) and their coworkers have collected data 
and published a resume of almost all the known metabolism-experiments 
of value in determining the trophology, trophodynamics and tropho- 
therapy of foodstuffs. The results of their studies in metabolism exceed 
by far those of any other observers in any other country. The scope and 
importance of their experimental work, as stated by Atwater, the leading 
American authority on this science, is as follows : 

The science of nutrition must be studied from the standpoints of the metabolism 
of matter and energy, if its fundamental laws are to be thoroughly learned. The 
ideal experiment for the determination of metabolic balance would include, (a) a 
respiration experiment, (6) a dietary study, and (c) a digestion experiment in 
which the thermal values of food and excreta are determined. It would also in- 
clude a measurement, with a calorimeter or by other suitable means, of the heat 
produced in the oi^anism. If work is also performed, it must also be measured. 
No experiment has yet been made which reaches this ideal. More often special 
problems connected with metabolism have been the subject of investigation, such 
as the following: The functions of the nutrients of food; the formation of fat 
from protein and from carbohydrates; the digestibility of foods of various kinds; 
the isodynamic values of nutrients; the fuel value (potential energy) of food; the 
mfluence on metabolism of various diseases, of alcohol, drugs, condimentt, and the 
like, and of various forms of treatment, medical or otherwise, as for instance, hot 
water baths; the influence of prolonged hunger or thirst on metabolism; and tiie 
quantities of nutrients consumed and appropriate for people of different classes, 



FOOD AS A SOURCE OF HEAT AND GROWTH 245 

occupations, and conditions, and for animals of different kinds or animals fed for 
different economic purposes. 

The quality and quantity of diet exert a far-reaching influence upon 
the development of the race, an influence which is readily observed in the 
physical well-being associated with an adequate supply of suitable food. 
The problems of dietetics are of gTcat intricacy, for no definite food or 
combinations of foods, can be regarded as suitable for different people, or 
for the same individual under different circumstances. The application 
of experimental research in trophotherapy, as in other branches of science, 
has yielded some insight into the general principles which govern the 
nutrition of man. 

One may well ask the question, then: "Why do physicians take so 
much care in measuring the exact dosage of drugs which are administered 
only occasionally, and give such little attention to measuring their food 
prescriptions which are to be followed daily ?" A physician who instructs 
his patients to take "a little" strychnia or a "big dose" of calomel, etc., 
would be regarded as criminally negligent, yet, in prescribing diet, this 
is just the kind of advice that physicians usually give. It is rather para- 
doxical that a question which so intimately engages the attention of man- 
kind, like food and drink, has been given so little attention by the medical 
profession. The study of the therapeutic indications of food is a question 
which will demand the attention of the physician of the future. He will 
find specific medication — theoretically speaking — in the so-called "spe- 
cific values" of the articles of nutrition or aliments. It is no longer a 
question that certain diseases can be successfully treated by the adminis- 
tration of properly selected and prepared articles of diet which have a 
distinctively active or medicinal influence over certain pathologic condi- 
tions. In many instances a clear understanding of the proper kind and 
proper dosage of food is more important to the physician than any knowl- 
edge of the use of drugs. The appreciation of the physiological demands 
of the organism necessitates the recognition of both quantitative and quali- 
tative needs. If we would be able to give our patients the proper advice, 
we must carefully study foodstuffs, their composition, their preparation, 
their digestibility and their trophotherapeutic effects, which is the science 
that deals with the treatment of disease with food. Trophodynamics 
deals with the science of the powers and effects of foods Trophology is 
the science of the nature and properties of materials that are used as 
food. Since our knowledge of the pathogenesis of a large number of dis- 
eases is imperfect, we are not in a position at the present time to lay down 

definite rules for the treatment and cure of disorders that are due to a 
116 



246 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

constitutional or nutritional nature, except in a very limited number of 
cases. 

Unity and Method of Measurement. — The unit of measure to determine 
the fuel value of foods is the calorie.^ It may be defined as that amount 
of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water to 1 
degree Centigrade. To determine the fuel value of any food, that is, to 
calculate the amount of energy liberated by the burning of a given quan- 
tity of combustible material, we use the instrument called the calorimeter. 
Various forms of calorimeter have been devised, one of the best being the 
bomb calorimeter devised by Berthelot. This instrument and the method 
of its use have been fully described by Atwater and Snell(3). "In out- 
line, it consists of a heavy steel bomb with a platinum or gold-plated 
copper lining and a cover held tightly in place by means of a strong screw 
collar. A weighed amount of sample is placed in a capsule within the 
bomb, which is then charged with oxygen to a pressure of at least 20 atmos- 
pheres (300 pounds or more to the square inch), closed, and immersed in 
a weighed amount of water. The water is constantly stirred and its tem- 
perature taken at intervals of one minute by means of a differential ther- 
mometer capable of being read to one thousandth of a degree. After the 
rate at which the temperature of the water rises or falls has been deter- 
mined, the sample is ignited by means of an electric fuse, and, on account 
of the large amount of oxygen present, undergoes rapid and complete 
combustion. The heat liberated is communicated to the water in which 
the bomb is immersed and the resulting rise in temperature is accurately 
determined. The thermometer readings are also continued through an 
"after period," in order that the "radiation correction" may be calculated 
and the observed rise of temperature corrected accordingly. This cor- 
rected rise, multiplied by the total heat capacity of the apparatus, and 
the water in which it is immersed, shows the total heat liberated in the 
bomb. From this must be deducted the heat arising from accessory com- 
bustions (the oxidation of the iron wire used as a fuse, etc.) to obtain the 
number of calories arising from the combustion of the sample." 

Through the aid of the calorimeter we are able to determine not only 
the heat given oif by the combustion of any oxidizable material such as 
carbon, fat, starch, albumin, alcohol, sugar, etc., but also the amount 
radiated or conducted away from any body, for example, the living 
animal. Since the body gets its energy from the oxidation of the same 



1 When the term "calorie" is used in this work it is intended to refer to the 
greater calorie, i.e., the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of one 
kilogram of water one degree Centigrade. This is practically the same as the amount 
of heat required to warm four pounds of water one degree Fahrenheit. 



FOOD AS A SOURCE OF HEAT AND GROWTH 247 

kind of compounds which exist in foods, that is, essentially from carbo- 
hydrates, fats, proteins, and their cleavage products, if we know the 
kinds and amounts of foodstuffs eaten and the extent to which they are 




This is Atwater and Snell's modification of Berthelot's bomb calorimeter used mainly 
for determining the heat value of foods. It consists of steel bomb, with platinum top and 
rolled platinum plated lining, clamp for holding bomb, support for bomb whilst charging, 
pellet press and mould, calorimeter cylinder with water holder, stirrer and motor, mounted 
receptacles for lamp resistance with switch, special design thermometer reading glass. 



I 



oxidized in the body, we can estimate in calories the amounts of energy 
liberated. 

Heat of Combustion of Various Substances and Foods. — The average 

results of calorimetric combustion show for : 

Carbohydrates 4,1 calories per gram 

Fats 9.45 " " " 

Protein 5.65 " " " 

The heat of combustion of various substances as well as the relation 
between their elementary composition will be made clearer by the study 
of the table on page 248 from Sherman (4), which includes the number of 
typical compounds found in food or formed in the body: 



248 



THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDIJ^G 



HEAT OF COMBUSTION AND APPROXIMATE ELEMENTARY 
COMPOSITION OF TYPICAL COMPOUNDS 



Heat of 
Combustion, 


Carbon, 


Hydro- 


Oxygen, 


Nitro- 


Sulphur, 


Calories 
per gram 


per cent 


gen, 
per cent 


per cent 


gen, 
per cent 


per cent 


3.75 


40.0 


6.7 


53.3 






3.96 


42.1 


6.4 


51.5 






4.22 


44.4 


6.2 


49.4 






9.60 


76.5 


12.0 


11.5 






9.30 


75.0 


11.7 


13.3 






5.64 


51.4 


7.0 


22.1 


18.6 


0.9 


5.62 


51.7 


7.0 


22.9 


18.0 


0.4 


5.74 


52.7 


6.9 


21.7 


17.7 


1.0 


5.85 


53.1 


7.0 


22.5 


15.8 


0.8 


5.80 


52.5 


7.0 


23.0 


16.0 


1.5 


5.30 


50.0 


6.6 


24.8 


18.0 


0.6 


4.58 


42.5 


6.2 


14.1 


37.2 




2.53 


20.0 


6.7 


26.7 


46.6 





Phos- 
phorus, 
per cent 



Glucose 

Sucrose 

Starch I 

Glycogen. . . ) 

Body fat 

Butter fat ... . 

Edestin 

Legumin 

Gliadin 

Casein 

Albumin 

Gelatin 

Creatin 

Urea 



0.8 



The following table from Hall (5) graphicall;)' expresses the calories 
represented in different foods and other substances involved in the proc- 
esses of nutrition : 

TABLE SHOWING CALORIES PER GRAM OF DRY SUBSTANCE 



1 Gram dry substance 



Heat of combustion 
in calories 



Starch or glycogen 

Cane sugar 

Dextrose 

Lactose 

Carbohydrates, average; absorbed and available 

Fat (one form) 

Fat (another form) 

Butter 

Fats, average; 9 .4; absorbed and available 

Egg, white 

Egg, yolk 

Egg average, white and yolk 

Lean beef 

Casein 

Vegetable proteins 

Proteins, average ;•.•••• 

Protein, unavailable energy (unabsorbed or unoxidized) 

Proteins, available energy for use in body 

Carbon, per gram 

Hydrogen, per gram 



4.182 
4.176 
3.940 
4.162 

4.0 

9.686 
9.423 
7.264 

9.0 

4.896 
6.460 
5.678 
5.656 
5.849 
5.500 
5.650 
1.650 

40 

8.080 
34.662 



FOOD AS A SOURCE OF HEAT AND GROWTH 249 

Standard and Sample Dietaries. — We have just studied "heat of com- 
bustion and approximate elementary composition of typical compounds," 
together with the "calories represented in different foods involved in the 
process of nutrition," and, before entering upon a consideration of the 
theoretical requirements of individuals, some standard dietaries and a 
few examples of diets consumed by people of different classes such as rep- 
resented in the table ^ below should guide us in arranging a diet for groups 
of people in various circumstances and following varied occupations : 

STANDARD DIETARIES 



Standard dietaries and others 



Protein, 
Grams 



Fat, 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
Grams 



Energy, 
Grams 



Standard Diet: Ranke's 

Moleschott's 

Pettenkof er and Volt's 

Cornet's 

Playfair's 

Parke's 

The diet of Harvard University boat crew . . 
Harvard Freshman boat crew. . . 

Yale University boat crew 

Harvard University boat crew (2d 

observation) 

Harvard Freshmen boat crew (2d 

observation) 

Yale University boat crew (2d ob- 
servation) 

Captain of Harvard crew 



Average of above diets. 



Football team : Connecticut . 
Football team: California. . . 
Professional athlete 



Athletes at Helsingfors 

Brickmakers in Connecticut 

Mechanics in United States 

Lumbermen in Maine 

United States Army ration 

United States Navy ration 

English Royal Engineers in active 
work 



English soldiers on special duty. 

European soldiers in Batavia . . . 

Mechanics in Germany 

Farm laborers in Austria 

Factory operatives in Russia . . . 
Mechanics in Sweden 



100 
130 
137 
120 
119 
127 
162 
153 
145 

160 

135 

171 
135 



135 

181 
270 
244 
217 
182 
222 
154 
206 
164 
143 

144 
190 
145 
136 
139 
159 
132 
189 



100 

84 

117 

60 

51 

99 

175 

223 

170 

170 

152 

171 
181 



177 

292 
416 
151 
259 
204 
265 
227 
387 
98 
184 

83 
58 

150 
79 

113 
62 
80 

110 



240 
404 
352 
500 
530 
397 
449 
468 
375 

448 

416 

434 

487 



440 

557 
710 
502 
431 
392 
758 
626 
963 
600 
520 

631 
510 
450 
497 
677 
977 
584 
714 



2,310 
2,970 
3,113 
3,007 
3,025 
3,172 
4,130 
4,620 
3,705 

4,075 

3,675 

4,070 
4,315 



4,085 

5,470 
7,885 
4,460 
5,070 
4,254 
6,484 
5,275 
8,140 
4,061 
5,000 

3,950 
3,426 
3,503 
3,000 
4,395 
5,235 
3,680 
4,725 



1 From Bull. 4,5, U. S. Dept. Agric, and various other .sources. 



250 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

Caloric Values of Ingested Foods. — In the process of digestion atid 
absorption, the combustion of fats and carbohydrates yields products 
identical with those in the calorimeter, and gives out an equivalent 
amount of heat. This does not hold true with protein, however, which 
in the bomb turns to carbon dioxid, water and nitrogen, but in the body 
yields no free nitrogen, for here urea and other organic nitrogen com- 
pounds are excreted as end products of protein digestion (see Volume I, 
Chapter VII, Physiology and -Absorption). From this data it will be seen 
that these organic nitrogenous end products which are combustible result 
from a more incomplete oxidation of protein in the organism than that 
occurring in the bomb. The estimation of the loss of potential energy 
is based on the theory that the total quantity of nitrogen excreted from 
the body as urea would amount to about 0.9 calories per gram of protein. 
However, this problem is not as simple as would seem at first sight, for, 
owing to the excretion of other matter (creatinin, uric acid, and the like) 
of higher combustion, the real loss from end products is increased to the 
average of about 1.3 calories per gram of protein disintegrated in the 
organism. Therefore, it is correctly estimated that when the body bums 
material which it has previously absorbed it obtains: 

From carbohydrates 4.1 calories per gram. 

From fats 9.35 " " " 

From protein (5.65—1.30). 4.35 " " " 

An allowance must be made, however, when calculating the fuel value 
of food to allow for the fact that a part of each of the materials is lost 
in digestion, so that the approximate values of a mixed diet are: 

Carbohydrates ... 2 per cent lost, 98 per cent absorbed 

Fats 5- per cent lost, 95 per cent absorbed 

Protein 8 per cent lost, 92 per cent absorbed 

When allowance is made for the above losses, biological chemists have 
approximated the physiological fuel value of food constituents consumed 
to be as follows : 

Carbohydrates . . (4.1 X 98 per cent) yield 4. calories per gram 

Fats (9.45 X 95 per cent) yield 9. calories per gram 

Protein (4.35 X 92 per cent) yield 4. calories per gram 



FOOD AS A SOURCE OF HEAT AND GROWTH 251 

Riibner's calculation shows the energy values of foodstuffs to be as 
follows : 

Carbohydrates yield 4.1 calories per gram 

Fats " 9.3 " " " 

Protein "4.1 " " " 

Rubner's estimate was derived from experiments with dogs fed on 
meat, starch, sugar, etc., and made no calculation for the loss in diges- 
tion as has been found by other competent observers to occur with men 
living on an ordinary well-balanced ration. 

Food ingested represents potential chemical energy which is the source 
of all bodily energy. In order to arrive at a correct determination of the 
potential energy in food consumed, it is necessary to know how much food 
is consumed and the potential energy of the various foodstuffs. By refer- 
ring to page 258 will be found a table which graphically expresses the 
caloric value of different foods involved in the process of nutrition. The 
reader is also requested to consult The Analysis and Fuel Value of Foods, 
Volume I, Chapter XIX, which contains a list of all known American 
foods and graphically presents the analysis of foods, showing the percent- 
age of protein, fat, carbohydrate and mineral salts with the caloric value 
per pound and per portion. 

Constructive and Fuel Foods — "We have previously pointed out in this 
chapter, the methods for calculating the fuel value or potential energy of 
foods. It has been determined by means of calorimetric experiments that 
the amount of heat given off from a known weight of food substance is 
fairly constant and is called the heat value, or lieat of combustion, which 
is expressed in calories. The consideration of a large number of estima- 
tions of the heat value produced in the calorimeter and of the digestibility 
of foods led Rubner(6) to fix their value approximately, as graphically 
pointed out in table on this page. These figures are accepted by the ma- 
jority of observers as being approximately correct, and so have passed into 
common use. The experiments of Rubner, Atwater and other investiga- 
tors seem to show that the various foods may replace each other in exact 
ratio to energy derived from them which we have already discussed 
(Volume II, Chapter V, Various Factors Bearing on Diet, Digestion 
and Assimilation). Thus 100 grams of fat are isodynamic with 225 
of syntonin, 243 grams of dried muscle, 232 grams of starch, 234 grams 
of cane sugar and 256 grams of dextrose. In other words, 227 gTams of 
carbohydrates or protein are equal in isodynamic value with 100 grams 
of fat, because they yield 930 calories on combustion in the body. 



252 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

As shown in a previous chapter (Volume II, Chapter VII), a certain 
amount of protein is necessary to sustain life. It is not sufficient to say 
that a food to be able to maintain life and strength can furnish a given 
number of calories, since any number of calories can be obtained from 
fat, but fat will not maintain life nor promote growth of cells. Alimenta- 
tion must be estimated in terms of protein required and of calories 
required. A large proportion of the latter can be obtained from variable 
amounts of fats and carbohydrates, but such an alimentation would not 
build the body, though it would furnish the necessary fuel for body 
activities. 

Let us emphasize at this point the two clearly differentiated needs of 
the body: (a) for constructive material, and (h) material for fuel. The 
constructive foods are: proteins, salts and water. The fuel foods are: 
sugar, starch and fat. l^ote that the fuels are composed of carbon, hydro- 
gen and oxygen. They are, chemically, the carbonaceous foods, which 
oxidize to CO2 and H2O. The value of these fuel foods to the body is 
based wholly upon their fuel value, which is measured by the number of 
calories of heat which they liberate on oxidation. 

On the other hand, the value of the constructive foods cannot at all 
be measured by the number of calories which they represent. Salts, for 
example, are of inestimable value for body building, yet they have no 
caloric value — no fuel value. Water and the salts are just as truly foods 
as are the starches, sugars and fats ; but they are constructive foods of no 
fuel value. Similarly, the proteins bring C, H, N, S, P and Fe, to the 
body in combinations readily digested, absorbed and assimilated into 
living active tissues. These elements and combinations are absolutely 
essential to growth and repair. Their constructive value — their food 
value — is very great. The fuel value of proteins (5.6.5 calories per gram) 
is partly available eventually for fuel purposes when taken in minimal 
quantities, and immediately available to the extent of 4 calories per gram 
when taken in excess of the requirements for construction. This avail- 
able fuel value is its fuel value, not its food value. Fuel values are meas- 
ured in calories and may be estimated in cents per calorie. Constructive 
food values can no more be estimated in money units than can the value 
of a living, functioning nerve or muscle cell be estimated in dollars and 
cents. 

Caloric Requirement of Man. — The caloric requirement of an individual 
depends somewhat upon his weight and the amount of energy expended. 
As a result of much research and investigation, in order to establish a 
working standard, the weight fixed upon by various investigators has been 



FOOD AS A SOURCE OF HEAT AND GROWTH 253 

approximately 150 pounds. The caloric reqiiireineiit for a man of this 
weight leading a sedentary life can be determined by the following four 
methods, as determined by Sherman (4) : 

(a) By observing the amount of food ingested by many men in dif- 
ferent countries and under varying conditions. . 

(&) By determining the approximate amount of oxygen consumed. 

(c) By determining the equilibrium or balance of intake and output. 

(d) By direct calculation of the heat given off by the body. 

These various methods give approximately the same findings : a man 
at rest requires 2,000 calories, and one leading a sedentary life requires 
2,300 calories. 

The protein requirement for a man at work cannot be determined so 
accurately. It has been attempted by various observers with the following 
results : 

Voit in Germany fixed upon 118 grams of protein as the standard. 
Playfair in England fixed upon 119 grams of protein as the 

standard. 
Gautier in France fixed 107 grams as the standard. 
Atwater in this country fixed 100 grams of protein as the standard 

for a man of sedentary habits. 
Atwater also fixed 125 grams for a man at moderate work, 150 
grams for a man at hard work, 90 grams for one completely 
at rest. 
Chittenden decided upon 60 grams as the standard. His objection to 
the high protein ration, given by other workers in this field of research, 
is based, he says, upon evidence of self-indulgence and not upon the needs 
of an individual or upon the most profitable use of food. We give below 
the results of his experiments. For a man of average weight (154 
pounds), it is necessary to provide for the requisite quantity of food, 60 
grams of protein and a total caloric value of 2,800 calories. The follow- 
ing is a sample dietary suggested by Chittenden (7), showing the protein 
in gTams and the caloric value of each article : 

THE CHITTENDEN LOW PROTEIN DIETARY 

Breakfast: Protein, grams Calories 

1 shredded wheat biscuit (30 gm.) 3.15 106 

1 teacup of cream (120 gm.) 3.12 206 

1 German water roll (57 gm.) 5.07 165 

2 one-inch cubes of butter (38 gm.) 0.38 284 

H cup of coffee (100 gm.) with 0.26 

li cup of cream (30 gm.) 0.78 51 

1 lump of sugar (10 gm.) 38 

12.76 — 850 



254 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

THE CHITTENDEN LOW PROTEIN DIETARY— Continued 

Lunch: Protein, grams Calories 

1 teacup home-made chicken soup (144 gm.) 5.25 60 

1 Parker House roll (38 gm.) 3.38 110 

2 one-inch cubes of butter (39 gm.) 0.38 284 

1 shce lean bacon (10 gm.) 2.14 65 

1 small baked potato (2 oz,-60 gm.) 1.53 55 

1 rice croquette (90 gm.) 3.42 150 

2 ounces maple sirup (60 gm.) 166 

1 cup tea with 1 shce lemon 

1 lump sugar (10 gm.) 38 

16.10 928 

Dinner: 

1 teacup cream of corn soup (130 gra.) 3.25 72 

1 Parker House roU (38 gm.) 3.38 110 

1 one-inch cube of butter (19 gm.) 0.19 142 

1 small lamb chop broiled, lean meat (30 gm.).. . . 8.51 92 

1 teacup of mashed potato (167 gm.) 3.34 175 

Apple-celery lettuce salad with mayonnaise dress- 
ing (50 gm.) 0.62 75 

1 Boston cracker split, 2 in. in diameter (12 gm.). 1.32 47 

3^inch cube American cheese (12 gm.) 3.35 50 

3^ teacup of bread pudding (85 gm.) 5.25 150 

1 demi-tasse coffee 

1 lump sugar (10 gm.) 38 

29.21 — 951 

Total grams of protein 58.07 

Total calories 2729 

The total amount of protein in grama and the total calories in this 
dietary, as stated above, may be taken as approximately correct. It will 
be seen that he has reduced the protein to as low a point as is compatible 
with good health, mental and physical strength, but has allowed sufficient 
carbonaceous food to produce the requisite calories for normal energy. 
We have stated heretofore, and will reiterate again, that more protein is 
ordinarily consumed than is needed and often more than is good for one. 

Calorific Value of Excretory Products. — All non-nitrogenous foodstuffs 
which have undergone complete digestion and assimilation yield in our 
bodies the same amount of heat as in the calorimeter, the final products 
being the same. The nitrogenous foodstuffs are not so completely metab- 
olized; the oxidation of proteins in the body is not complete. We 
learned, when studying the Physiology of Digestion, that the protein 
molecule is made up of some twenty or more amino-acids. We also found 
that the protein molecule is split into a nitrogen-moiety and a carbon- 
moiety (8). The carbon-moiety is as completely oxidized in the body as 
in the calorimeter experiments. The nitrogen-moiety is not reduced in 
the animal body to ammonia and water — the ultimate products of nitro- 
genous decomposition — but it is excreted as an organic compound, which 



I 



rOOD AS A SOURCE OF HEAT AND GROWTH 255 

in man is chiefly urea, and a smaller proportion of quaternary substances 
(usually referred to as "meat bases") which have a calorie value but no 
food value. In order to arrive at the definite calorific value of the excre- 
tory products, they must be subtracted from the fuel value of nitrogenous 
foodstuffs as ascertained by calorimetric experimentation. The balance 
represents only the actvial energy yielded to the body and is known as the 
*^ physiological heat" value. It may be noted in passing that the unavail- 
able energy of the proteins is that represented by the urea, urates, nitrates, 
sulphates and other more or less complex substances excreted in the urine 
which are subject to further combustion, so that the animal body is able 
to extract from proteins only about four calories, while the calorimeter 
experiments in complete combustion is able to extract 5.65 calories. 

It may be safely stated as a general working rule, that each gram of 
protein consumed results in the excretion of about one-third of a gram 
of urea. 

Tlie factors of Rubner, as previously mentioned, are generally agreed 
upon as being approximately correct, but, in order to ascertain the physio- 
logical available energy, the food should be burnt in a bomb calorimeter 
already described, and the figure obtained will be the gross heat value. 
From this, as we have previously mentioned, must be subtracted the heat 
yielded by the urine and feces by combustion, and the net will show the 
physiological availability of the energy. In his physiological researches, 
Rubner (6) made man}'- such experiments, and the following is summed 
up from his results, to which Tibbies (9) refers: 

RUBNER'S TABLE SHOWING LOSSES AND AVAILABLE ENERGY 



Food 


Heat Lost, Per Cent 


Availability 

of Energy, 

Per cent 


In Urine 


In Feces 


Total 


Mixed diet: Poor in fat. . . . 

Rich in fat . . . . 

Meat diet 


4.70 
3.87 
16.30 
5.13 
2.40 
2.20 
2.00 


6.00 
5.73 
6.90 
5.07 
15.50 
24.30 
5.60 


10.70 
9.60 
23.20 
10.20 
17.90 
26.50 
7.60 


89.3 
90.4 
76.4 


Cow's milk 


89.4 


Graham bread 


82.1 


Rye bread 


73.5 


Potatoes 


92.4 







Physiological Food Value — The value of a fuel food to the body ia 
finally measured by the number of calories which it can yield when 
oxidized in the tissues — the physiological food value. But this value 
depends upon digestibility and absorbability. It was formerly considered 



256 THE CALORIC METHOD OE FEEDING 

that the measure of digestibility of any foodstuff depended upon the 
length of time it remained in the stomach and freedom from discomfort 
during the process of digestion. In normal individuals the process of 
digestion is unaccompanied by any feelings save that of satisfaction and 
well being. It is only under abnormal conditions that the presence of 
food in the stomach or alimentary canal gives rise to any other sensation. 
Beaumont (10), in a long series of experiments on Alexis St. Martin, who 
suffered from a gastric fistula, was able to determine exactly the length 
of time the food remained in the stomach. For many years his experi- 
ments were accepted as authoritative, but the science of nutrition has 
shown many errors in his reasoning and conclusions. 

Physiologists in recent years have conducted experiments with the 
object of ascertaining the period of time various foods remain in the 
stomach (11). Penzoldt, in working out this question, made observations 
on the gastric digestion in healthy men.^ He allowed his subjects to have 
a stated amount of certain foodstuffs, the exact amount and consistence of 
which he took careful note. He allowed this to remain in the stomach 
for a definite time and removed the contents with a stomach tube, and he 
found that the time it remained in the stomach had a marked influence 
upon it. Physiologists have definitely determined the fact that fluids pass 
out of the stomach more rapidly than solids. For instance, six to eight 
ounces of water or beverages pass out of the stomach during the course 
of 30 minutes. It was found that hot drinks did not pass out of the 
stomach any quicker than cold ones. Solid food substances in solution 
or suspension were somewhat delayed in leaving the stomach, thus it took 
two hours for eight ounces of milk to pass through the stomach. It is 
a well-known fact that the length of time food remains in the stomach is 
not a definite criterion of the ease or difficulty of its digestion. On the 
other hand, it would be an error to consider as "indigestible" those foods 
which remain in the stomach a longer time than others or to suggest that 
they should be avoided by healthy people. 

According to Tibbles(8) : 

The test of time occupied by its passage through the stomach refers only to 
the "apparent digestibility," while the test of "actual digestibility" is the amount 
absorbed. It has been truly said that "We live not upon what we eat, but upon 
what we digest." The term "digestibility," therefore, refers to the entire process 
of digestion, and not merely to that which occurs in the stomach. In this sense 
a "digestible food' is one of which the largest possible percentage is absorbed, 
and an "indigestible food" is one of which a considerable portion passes out of 
the system in the feces without being disintegrated and absorbed. 

1 See Volume III, Chapter T, for Penzoldt's observations. 



CALCULATlOiY OF FUEL VALUES OF FOOD 



257 



CALCULATION OF FUEL VALUES OF FOOD 

Chemical Analyses of Foods — To calculate the fuel values of food it is 
necessary to have hefore one tables showing the chemical analysis of the 
food in question. Taking from the tables the component parts of the 
aliment to be used, and multiplying by the factors representing the num- 
ber of calories per gram of carbohydrates, fats or proteins as the case 
may be, one can quickly determine the calories per 100 gram or the 
calories per pound in any given article of food. For assistance on this 
point the reader is referred to an abbreviated table given on the following 
page, containing the estimate of protein, fats, carbohydrates and caloric 
value for portions ordinarily served. For a more extensive table, see 
Volume I, Chapter XIX, where an accurate analysis of protein, fats, 
carbohydrates, mineral matter and caloric value per pound and per por- 
tion is given for the different American foods. A study of these tables 
will afford a basis for calculating the requisite number of calories con- 
tained in different foods for a well-balanced ration. 

From the following table compiled from the more extensive work by 
Locke (12) it will be easy to estimate the percentage of ternary food ele- 
ments contained in the common foodstuffs, together with the caloric value 
given for individual portions ordinarily served : 

COMPARATIVE EQUIVALENTS IN METRIC, AVOIRDUPOIS AND 
APOTHECARIES' WEIGHTS AND MEASURES* 















Metric 












Weights 








Weights 

AND 




Measures 














Measures 










Apothecaries' 


Avoirdupois 






Fluid 


Fluid 


Grains 


oz. 


gr. 1 


b. 


oz. 


gm. 


gm. or c.c. 


oz. 


minims 


ounces and 
fractions 


15432.4 


32 


72.4 


2 


3 


119.9 


1000 


33 


390.06 


33.814 


7000.0 


14 


280.0 


1 






453.592 


15 


162.1 


15.338 


1543.2 


3 


103.2 




3 


230.7 


100 


3 


183.1 


3.382 


480.0 


1 






1 


42.5 


31.1035 


1 


24.8 


1.052 


456.392 








1 


18.89 


29.5737 


1 




1 


437.5 








1 




28.350 




460.1308 


0.959 


15.4324 








, , 




1 




16.23 


0.0338 


1 












0.06479 




1.0517 


0.0022 


0.9508 












0.06161 




1 


0.0021 



1 From the United States Pharmacopeia. 



258 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

VALUES OF THE ORDINARY FOODS PREPARED TO SERVE 



Foodstuffs 



Quantity 



Weight 


Protein 


Fats 


Car- 


(Gms.) 


(Gms.) 


(Gms.) 


bohy- 
drates 


120 


5.88 


0.72 




100 


6.00 


1.90 


9.40 


100 


22.30 


28.60 




100 


23.50 


20.40 




80 


32.00 


0.45 




125 


16.26 


12.62 


21.76 


100 


32.10 


4.40 


2.10 


100 


21.70 


29.90 




75 


14.78 


9.53 




75 


23.18 


3.38 




100 


22.60 


4.50 




75 


18.75 


16.95 




33 


7.29 


6.80 




35 


7.77 


11.62 




35 


4.55 


15.47 


0.39 


100 


27.80 


18.40 




80 


22.82 


1.14 




75 


21.33 


1.00 




100 


25.90 


4.50 




100 


21.68 


0.27 


i.58 


100 


20.35 


4.04 




70 


11.73 


4.48 


2.62 


100 


19.65 


10.21 


5.36 


10 


2.30 


1.97 




50 


10.57 


1.17- 


.62 


150 


12.90 


1.5 


3.00 


100 


6.50 


0.4 


4.20 


245 


19.36 


2.21 


1.47 


105 


17.22 


1.89 


.42 


85 


5.27 


1.02 


3.15 


124 


6.07 


11.06 


10.53 


138 


8.06 


18.58 


11.98 


110 


28.20 


1.75 


6.02 


120 


3.84 


1.68 


11.28 


120 


12.60 


0.96 


2.88 


120 


4.56 


1.08 


5.64 


120 


2.16 


.96 


8.04 


120 


3.00 




0.48 


125 


3.44 


8.62 


4.87 


125 


3.00 


8.94 


5.01 


125 


3.75 


8.70 


10.66 


125 


6.29 


8.46 


14.07 


125 


2.99 


9.40 


6.36 


120 


6.24 


1.08 


3.36 


120 


4.80 


1.56 


5.16 



Total 
Calories 



Beef juice 

Corned beef hash 

Roast beef 

Steak, tenderloin beef, 

Sweetbreads 

Creamed chicken on toast 

Roast chicken 

Lamb chop with bone . 

Roast lamb 

Boiled mutton, lean . . . 

Mutton chop, lean 

Mutton, roast leg 

Ham, smoked, boiled, as 
purchased 

Ham, smoked, fried. . , 

Sausage, uncooked 

Roast turkey 

Veal cutlet 

Veal roast 

Bluefish 

Codfish 

Halibut 

Mackerel 

Salmon 

Sardines, canned 

Trout, brook 

Clams, long 

Clams, round 

Crabs, hard shelled, as 
purchased 

Lob.ster 

Oysters 

Oyster stew 

Scalloped oysters 

Scallops, fried 

Bean soup, home-made. 

Chicken soup, home- 
made 

Chicken gumbo soup, 
canned 

Clam chowder, home- 
made 

Consomm6, canned 

Asparagus, cream soup. 

Celery cream soup 

Com cream soup 

Pea cream soup 

Tomato cream soup .... 

Mock turtle, canned. . . . 

Oxtail soup, canned 



4 ounces 

2 heap, tblspoon. 

1 slice 

1 « 
2 

2 heap, tblspoon, 
1 slice 

1 chop 
1 slice 
1 " 
1 chop 
1 slice 

1 « 

1 « 

1 sausage 

1 slice 

1 cutlet 

1 slice 

Average helping 



1 fish 

Average helping 

6 clams 



1 crab 

6 oysters 

4 ounces 

6 large oysters 

3 heap, tblspoon. 

1 teacup 

1 



31 
81 
357 
286 
135 
273 
181 
367 
150 
126 
135 
234 

93 

140 

164 

285 

104 

97 

148 

98 

121 

104 

198 

28 

57 

79 

47 

106 

90 

44 

171 

255 

158 

78 

72 

52 

51 

14 

114 

116 

140 

162 

126 

50 

55 



CALCULATION" OF FUEL VALUES OF FOOD 259 
VALUES OF THE ORDINARY FOODS PREPARED TO SERVE— Continued 



Foodstuffs 



Vegetable soup, canned . 

Butter 

Average cream 

Thick cream 

American cheese, pale . . 

Camembert cheese 

Fromage de brie 

Full cream cheese 

Neufchatel cheese 

Roquefort cheese 

Swiss cheese 

Kumiss 

Buttermilk 

Whole milk 

Whey 

Hen's eggs, boiled 

Omelette, egg 

Ingredients: 3 tblspoon . 

milk, 3 eggs, 1 heap. 

teaspoon butter. . . . 

Asparagus, canned 

Baked beans, home-made 

Butter beans 

Lima beans 

String beans 

Beets 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery, uncooked 

Com, canned 

Corn, green 

Cucumber, uncooked. . 
Mushrooms, broiled . . . 

Onions 

Peas, green 

Potatoes, sweet, boiled . 

Baked potatoes 

Boiled potatoes 

Mashed and creamed 

potatoes 

Squash 

Spinach 

Tomatoes, canned. . . . 
Tomatoes, uncooked.. 

Turnips 

Apple 

Banana 

Blackberries 

Cantaloupe 



Quantity 



teacup 

ball 

tblspoon. 

cubic inch 
heap, tblspoon, 
cubic inch 



slice 

wineglass 

glass 



egg 
i omelette 



3 heap, tblspoon. 

4 « « 

2 " « 

2 " " 

2 « " 

3 « « 
3 " " 

2 « « 

3 small stalks 

2 heap, tblspoon. 

1 ear 

8 thin slices 

2 large, on toast 
1 

3 heap, tblspoon. 
Average size 
Medium " 



2 heap, tblspoon. 
2 « " 

2 « « 

2 « " 

Medium size 

2 heap, tblspoon. 

Average size 

« (( 

3 heap, tblspoon. 
}/2 melon 



Weight 
(Gms.) 



120 

15 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

130 

218 

220 

203 

50 

75 



125 

150 

180 

80 

60 

70 

100 

100 

120 

55 

100 

100 

50 

57 

100 

92 

100 

130 

150 

100 
100 
100 
70 
200 
140 
150 
194 
100 
465 



Protein 
(Gms.) 



3.48 
0.15 
0.74 
0.31 
5.70 
4.20 
3.18 
5.18 
3.74 
4.52 
5.52 
3.64 
6.54 
7.26 
2.03 
6.60 
9.80 



1.88 
10.83 
63.78 
6.40 
0.48 
1.61 
0.60 
0.53 
1.08 
0.50 
2.80 
3.07 
0.40 
3.52 
1.20 
6.16 
3.00 
3.77 
3.75 

2.60 
1.36 
2.10 
0.84 
2.40 
0.45 
0.45 
1.55 
1.30 
1.40 



Fats 
(Gms.) 



12.75 
5.14 

11.22 
7.18 
4.34 
4.20 
6.74 
5.48 
5.90 
6.98 
2.73 
1.09 
8.80 
0.61 
6.00 

14.01 



0.13 
12.76 
0.24 
0.54 
0.66 
0.07 
0.10 
0.17 
0.12 
0.05 
1.20 
1.10 
0.10 
8.94 
1.80 
3.13 
2.10 
0.20 
0.15 

3.00 
0.82 
4.10 
0.14 
0.40 
0.08 
0.45 
0.78 
1.00 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



Total 
Calories 



0.6 

0.71 

.46 

0.06 

0.28 

0.48 

.30 

0.36 

0.26 

7.02 

10.46 

11.00 

10.15 

1.55 



3.50 

32.84 

11.60 

23.60 

1.14 

5.18 

0.40 

3.39 

0.48 

1.43 

19.00 

18.78 

1.55 

12.85 

4.90 

13.43 

42.1 

32.07 

31.35 

17.80 

13.60 

2.60 

2.80 

8.00 

0.91 

16.22 

27.74 

10.90 

21.39 



17 

119 
54 

108 
91 
58 
53 
86 
68 
75 
89 
69 
80 

157 
56 
83 

177 



23 

298 
65 

128 

13 

29 

5 

18 



101 
100 
9 
150 
42 
110 
204 
149 
145 

112 
69 
57 
16 
46 
6 
72 

127 
59 
93 



260 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

VALUES OF THE ORDINARY FOODS PREPARED TO SERVE— Continued 



Foodstuffs 



Quantity 



Weight 
(Gms.) 



Protein 
(Gms.) 



Fats 
(Gms.) 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



Total 
Calories 



Cherries 

Currants 

Grapefruit 

Grapes 

Gooseberries 

Huckleberries 

Lemon 

Orange 

Peach 

Pear 

Pineapple, edible portion 

Plum... 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

Watermelon 

Apricots, dried 

Dates 

Figs 

Prunes 

Raisins 

Apple, baked 

Apple, sauce 

Cranberries, stewed 

Currant jelly 

Marmalade, orange 

Rhubarb, stewed 

Rye bread 

Graham bread 

Biscuits, home-made.. . . 

Biscuits, soda 

Rolls, French 

Whole wheat 

Zwieback 

Boston cracker (split) . . 

Graham cracker 

Oyster cracker. 

Pretzels 

Educators, soda cracker . 

Uneeda biscuits 

Chicken sandwiches .... 

Egg sandwich 

Ham sandwich 

Cream toast 

Ingredients: 2 slices 
toast; 5 tblspoon 
cream sauce. 

Grapenuts 

Cornmeal mush 

Ingredients: 2 table- 
spoons white corn 
meal; 2 cups milk. 



About ^ pound 

4 heap, tblspoon. 

}4 large 

1 bunch 

4 heap, tblspoon. 

4 « « 

Average size 



2 slices 
Average size 

3 heap, tblspoon. 

4 « 

Large slice 
10 large 

10 " 

10 " 

10 very large 

10 " 

1 large 

3 heap, tblspoon. 

2 " « 

1 u « 

IK tt 

2 « « 

1 slice 

1 " 

1 biscuit 

1 « 

IroU 

1 slice 

1 « 

1 cracker 

1 

10 crackers 

1 pretzel 

1 cracker 

1 

1 sandwich 
1 

1 

2 slices 



5 heap, tblspoon. 



100 

100 

300 

150 

90 

100 

130 

250 

128 

156 

100 

35 

82 

100 

300 

80 

83 

117 

200 

25 

120 

125 

100 

35 

30 

90 

39 

37 

35 

38 

39 

42 

15 

10 

8 

11 

6 

3 

6 

70 

100 

70 

136 



65 
115 



0.90 
1.50 
2.37 
1.50 
0.90 
0.60 

.91 
1.50 
0.64 
0.78 
0.40 
0.32 
0.82 
1.00 

.60 
3.76 
1.58 
8.38 
3.60 
0.57 
0.61 
0.25 
0.27 
0.36 
0.18 
0.40 
3.51 
3.29 
3.05 
3.53 
3.32 
4.07 
1.47 
1.10 
0.80 
1.24 
0.58 
0.97 
0.59 
8.61 
9.60 
7.28 
9.03 



7.78 
3.85 



0.80 

6.60 
1.80 

6.60 
.65 
0.25 
0.13 
0.62 
0.30 



0.60 
0.30 
0.80 
2.08 
0.58 

0.75 
0.58 
1.00 
0.41 

6.03 
0.47 
.23 
0.67 
0.91 
5.21 
0.98 
0.38 
1.49 
0.85 
0.75 
1.16 
0.23 

6.55 

3.78 

12.70 

10.07 

14.60 



0.40 
4.11 



15.90 

12.80 

30.27 

21.60 

11.79 

16.60 

7.67 

21.25 

9.86 

19.81 

9.70 

6.69 

10.33 

7.40 

8.10 

50.00 

58.60 

59.28 

124.40 

17.13 

29.30 

46.50 

36.00 

27.16 

25.35 

32.40 

20.74 

19.28 

19.36 

19.99 

21.72 

20.87 

11.03 

7.11 

5.9 

7.76 

4.37 

1.39 

4.38 

22.47 

34.50 

26.55 

37.15 



51.51 
9.52 



76 

59 

139 

112 

52 

76 

41 

96 

44 

90 

44 

29 

46 

40 

39 

228 

266 

633 

525 

80 

128 

201 

153 

113 

105 

139 

102 

99 

100 

145 

112 

106 

65 

42 

34 

48 

22 

10 

25 

163 

299 

233 

325 



247 
93 



CALCULATION OF FUEL VALUES OF FOOD 261 
VALUES OF THE ORDINARY FOODS PREPARED TO 8ERYK— Continued 







Weight 


Protein 


Fats 


Car- 


Total 


Foodstuffs 


Quantity 


(Gms.) 


(Gms.) 


(Gms.) 


bohy- 
drates 


Calories 


Hominy, boiled 


2 heap, tblspoon. 


100 


2.20 


0.20 


17.80 


84 


Indian meal mush 


3 " 


115 


2.10 


1.18 


18.50 


96 


Macaroni, boiled 


2 " " 


100 


3.00 


1.50 


15.80 


91 


Macaroni, baked with 














cheese 


2 « « 
2 " « 


140 
100 


19.06 
2.80 


20.46 
0.50 


43.44 
11.50 


447 


Oatmeal, boiled 


63 


Puffed rice 


5 " 

-I u u 


14 
100 


0.87 
2.80 


0.08 
0.10 


12.00 
24.40 


54 


Rice, boiled 


112 


Shredded wheat biscuit . 


1 biscuit 


29 


3.05 


0.41 


22.59 


109 


Spaghetti, baked with 














tomato 


3 heap, tblspoon. 


145 


4.52 


2.81 


25.76 


150 


Apple pie 


K pie 


126 


3.91 


12.35 


53.93 


352 


rr^ ^»v>. .• 

Custard pie 




133 
110 
113 


5.59 
3.96 
6.55 


8.38 
11.11 
13.90 


34.71 
41.14 
43.05 


243 


Lemon pie 


288 


Mince pie 


333 


Squash pie 


H " 


133 


5.85 


11.17 


28.86 


246 


Bread pudding 


2 heap, tblspoon. 


105 


5.52 


4.79 


38.48 


225 


Ingredients: 1 cup 












bread crumbs; 1 cup 














milk; 1 egg; >^ cup 














sugar; 34 cup raisins 














Baked custard 


2 " " 


134 


7.31 


7.42 


20.50 


183 


Ingredients : 2 cups 




milk; 2 eggs; }4 














sugar. 














Soft custard 


4 tblspoon. 


60 


4.39 


6.84 


12.12 


131 


Ingredients: Yolk 1 egg ; 














3^ cup milk; 1 heap. 














tblspoon. sugar. 














Snow pudding 


2 heap, tblspoon. 


80 


4.52 


0.03 


11.73 


67 


Ingredients: % cup 












water; 1 heap, tea- 














spoon gelatin; 2 h. 














tblspoon. sugar; 1 














teaspoon lemon j nice 














lemon rind; white 1 














egg. 














Tapioca pudding. ...... 


3 " " 


110 


5.85 


6.12 


22.25 


172 


Ingredients: 2 cups 














milk; 1 egg, 3 table- 














spoons tapioca; 2 














tablespoons sugar. 














Tapioca and apples 


2 « u 


100 


0.21 


0.22 


28.58 


120 


Ingredients: 9 small 














apples; 1 cup sugar: 














% cup tapioca; 2 














cups water. 















117 



262 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

VALUES OF THE ORDINARY FOODS PREPARED TO SERYFr-Continued 



Foodstuffs 



Quantity 



Weight 
(Gms.) 



Protein 
(Gms.) 


Fats 
(Gms.) 


Car- 
bohy- 
drates 


4.76 


4.91 


16.83 


2.48 
5.22 


7.77 
4.09 


19.65 
38.09 


5.21 


10.16 


17.73 


1.76 
0.65 
0.94 


1.00 
1.52 
0.23 


14.12 

6.52 

74.68 


3.31 


0.65 
8.00 


18.95 


0.2 


19.92 


0.05 




.1 
3.1 


2 
5 


8.23 


24.36 

7.00 

6.00 

10.00 

12.00 

82.80 

2.60 



Total 
Calories 



Blancmange 

Ingredients: 1 heap 
tblspoon. c o r n - 
starch; 1 heap 
tblspoon. sugar; 1 
egg; 1 cup milk; 
tblspoon. sherry 

Doughnuts 

Egg souffle 

Ingredients: 2 eggs; }/2 
cup sugar; 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice 

Ice cream 

Ingredients: 3 cups 
milk; 1 cup cream; 3 
eggs; H cup sugar; 
vanilla 

Ladyfingers 

Macaroons 

Orange ice 

Ingredients: 2}/^ cups 
orange juice; 3^ cup 
lemon juice; 13^ 
cups sugar; 1 cup 
water; rind 2 
oranges 

Prune souffle 

Ingredients: ]/2 cup 
stewed prunes (edi- 
ble portion), white 
1 egg. 

French dressing 

Ingredients : 4 tblspoon. 
olive oil ; 1 tblspoon. 
vinegar; ^ teaspoon 
salt; pepper. 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Ingredients: 2 eggs; 2 
cups olive oil; 1 
tblspoon. vinegar, 
or 1 tblspoon. lemon 
juice; salt, pepper, 
mustard. 

Honey 

Cube sugar 

Domino sugar 

Granulated sugar 

Powdered sugar. 

Maple sugar 

Almonds 



2 heap, tblspoon. 



90 



1 doughnut 
^ souffl6 



2 heap, tblspoon. 



1 
1 
2 heap, tblspoon. 



2 « 



1 dessert spoon 



1 tblspoon. 



1 " 

1 cube 

1 domino 

1 heap, teaspoon 

1 u u 

1 cake 
10 large 



37 
50 



100 



20 

10 

100 



85 



11 



21 



30 
7 
6 

10 

12 
100 

15 



134 



163 
216 



189 



74 

44 

312 



97 



74 



187 



101 
29 
25 
41 
49 
339 
100 



CALCULATION OF FUEL VALUES OF FOOD 263 
VALUES OF THE ORDINARY FOODS PREPARED TO SERYE— Continued 



Foodstuffs 



Brazil nuts 

Chestnuts, roasted, as 
purchased 

Cocoanut 

Filberts 

Peanuts, as purchased . . 

Pecans 

Walnuts 

Cocoa 

Ingredients: 1 heap, tea- 
spoon cocoa; 1 heap, 
teaspoon sugar; % 
cup milk; 1 tblspoon. 
cream. 

Coffee or tea 

Ingredients 34 cup 
milk; 1 tblspoon. 
cream; 2 cubes 
sugar; coffee or tea. 

Eggnog 

Ingredients: 1 egg; 1 
heap, tblspoon. 
sugar; ^ cup milk; 
1 tblspoon. sherry. 



Quantity 



10 large 

20 nuts 
1 slice 
10 nuts 
15 « 
10 large 
10 « 
1 cup 



1 glass 



Weight 
(Cms.) 



60 

50 
34 
10 
30 
30 
42 
227 



246 



270 



Protein 
(Cms.) 



10.20 

2.60 
1.94 
1.56 
5.85 
3.30 
7.73 
9.08 



2.80 



13.00 



Fats 
(Cms.) 



40.08 

2.25 
17.20 
6.53 
8.73 
21.36 
27.05 
15.53 



7.64 



12.85 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



4.20 

17.70 
9.49 
1.30 
5.55 
3.99 
5.46 

23.85 



17.83 



29.50 



Total 
Calories 



432 

104 
207 

72 
128 
229 
306 
279 



156 



294 



In discussing the energy obtained from different foods, it is important 
to distinguish between heat produced when substances are burned in the 
calorimeter and the heat that is available when used in the body, since 
it never happens that the combustible portion of a ration is entirely con- 
sumed in the body. The total food is never all digested, therefore it 
cannot all be absorbed and assimilated. Furthermore, the absorbed and 
assimilated proteins are never fully burned and there is usually an escape 
of unconsumed gases from the alimentary canal. As actual work is per- 
formed in the process of digestion, the term "net energy" has been intro- 
duced and applied to the amount of energy which is available after that 
used up in the digestion and preparation of the food for use in the body 
has been subtracted. 

In calculating the fuel value represented by a particular menu, one 
deals with several carbohydrates in various proportions; similarly with 
fats and proteins derived from both animal and vegetable foods. Instead 
of computing the different foodstuffs separately, it will be found more 
convenient to use the average value given in the table on page 248 and 



264 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

multiplying the total amounts of carbohydrate in the menu by this factor. 
The same may conveniently be done with the fats and proteins. The 
fuel value which any food represents is easily determined by using the 
factors in this table: Ascertain first the percentage of protein, fat and 
carbohydrate which the menu contains and multiply these several amounts 
by the factors given in this table; for example, oatmeal contains 7.6 per 
cent of water, 15.5 per cent of protein, 7.1 per cent of fat, 68.2 per cent 
of carbohydrates and 2 per cent of salts. One hundred grams of oatmeal 
represent energy, viz. : 

From protein 15.1 X 4.0 = 60.40 

From fat 7.1 X 9.4 = 63.90 

From carbohydrates 68.2 X 4.0 = 272.80 

Total 397.10 

The total fuel value of one pound of dry oatmeal ia obtained by multi- 
plying this quantity by 4.5, The heat energy or fuel value of almost 
every known food is given in the table on page 702 (Analysis and Fuel 
Value of Foods, Volume I, Chapter XIX). These figures are suf- 
ficiently accurate for determining the caloric value of dietaries for insti- 
tutional purposes or in private practice. 

Method of Reckoning the Protein, Fat and Carbohydrate Rations for Diets 
of Definite Energy Values. — Voit's dietary standard for a man at mod- 
erately hard work is calculated for 16 per cent of the energy to be fur- 
nished by protein, 18 per cent by fat, and 66 per cent by carbohydrate. 
Where the total fuel value of the ration represents 3,000 calories, 
according to Coleman, the calculation is made as follows : 

16 per cent of 3,000 =-^-77-= 120 grams protein 

18 per cent of 3,000 = ~~q~T ^^ ^'^ grams fat 

66 per cent of 3,000 = . q «= 495 grams carbohydrate | 

By the employment of Coleman's method the rations may be quite 
accurately determined for diets of any given energy value. 

With the above facts before us it is easy to determine the caloric value 
contained in any food, provided the percentages of protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate are known. These percentages multiplied by the figures given in 



I 
I 



FACTORS GOVERNING FOOD REQUIRED 266 

the table previously referred to and their results added will give the 
number of calories in 100 grams of food. It. will not be such an arduous 
task to calculate the caloric value of a meal if one will remember the 
fuel values of the ordinary portions, viz. : roast beef, 357 calories ; bread, 
100 calories; butter, 150 calories; rice croquettes, 128 calories; a medium 
baked potato, 150 calories; tapioca pudding, 120 calories; sugar and 
cream with coffee, 100 calories — which will total 1,105 calories for the 
meal, or about one-third of the day's requirements. 

FACTORS GOVERNING THE AMOUNT OF FOOD REQUIRED 

The amount of food required to keep any person in a normal state of 
health and bodily equilibrium differs according to various circumstances, 
such, for instance, as the condition of rest or work, the kind of work, the 
training, the age, sex, size and weight of the body, restlessness or placidity, 
and even the individual peculiarities of the person. As an illustration, 
we will consider the body as an engine and the food consumed as the fuel 
for the engine. It has been proved as far as possible that the laws of 
conservation of matter and energy are followed by the human organism 
as they are in the engine; the body loses matter and energy, but they 
undergo transformation and are not destroyed in the body. Reasoning on 
this analogy, it may be assumed that whatever material is used in the 
body and however much energy is exhibited or heat evolved by it, both 
matter and energy have been derived from the food consumed in the 
process of digestion and assimilation and stored in the tissues. 

Amount of Heat Lost by Body — ^It is known that the heat of the body 
is generated by the oxidation of food or tissue substances, and also that the 
food required is proportional to the extent of the surface of the body. 
For instance, a small animal gives off, weight for weight, more heat 
than a large one. A large animal has a smaller cutaneous surface in pro- 
portion to size and weight than a small one, and a small animal a rela- 
tively larger surface area than a large one. For these reasons, it will 
be seen at a glance that a thin, angular, lean, lanky person loses more 
heat, according to weight, than a larger and more rotund person, a thin, 
premature infant more than a plump and well-developed child. After 
a consideration of many experiments on animals and human beings, 
Camerer came to the conclusion that an infant expendc 100 calories, a 
child of 4 years expends 91.3 calories, a child of 12 years expends 57.7 
calories and a man of 30 years expends 42,4 calories per kilogram of 
body weight. Consequently, the amount of heat lost by the body is an 



266 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

important factor in the regulation of food, and to a great extent tliis is 
governed by the area of the body surface. 

Weight of Body. — The amount of food required by the body, other 
things being equal, must be proportional to the weight of the body. The 
bodily heat is produced by the oxidation of food consumed or stored in 
the tissues. In a condition of rest, the tissues of the body are not called 
on for the production of heat and energy, but still there must be a mini- 
mum of food consumed to supply the energy utilized by, and the heat 
radiated from, the body. In a state of rest, a man of 154 pounds weight 
gives off 15 cubic feet of carbon dioxid in a period of 24 hours. The 
production of 1 cubic foot of carbon dioxid by combustion is accompanied 
by a liberation of heat equivalent to 160 foot-tons of energy, therefore 
15 X 100 ^ 2,400 foot-tons of energy which are necessary to the main- 
tenance of the body temperature and the performance of bodily functions 
during the state of rest. Therefore 1 calorie is equal to 1.54 foot-tons 
of energy, and 2,400 foot-tons is equal to about 3,696 calories for a person 
weighing 154 pounds. 

Age. — According to Huebner(13), the younger the animal organism, 
the more rapid is the rate of growth. For instance, a child's body grows 
seven times more rapidly from one to three months than from six to 
nine months of age. It is correctly asserted that a child commonly loses 
a little weight for a few days after birth; but the average increase of 
weight up to three months is 3.6 pounds; from the third to the sixth 
month, 3.6 pounds; from the sixth to the ninth month, 3.4 pounds; and 
from the ninth to the twelfth month, 3 pounds. So the amount of food 
required by a normal child is in proportion to its rate of growth. Further 
consideration of food in childhood will be found in Volume II, Chap- 
ter XI. 

Sex — In anthropometric tables (14) that have been carefully com- 
piled, the following data appear: (a) The most rapid growth occurs dur- 
ing the first five years after birth. In the first year the weight is trebled, 
in the second year it is nearly doubled. During this period the rate of 
growth is nearly identical in both sexes, only that boys are a little taller 
and heavier than girls, (b) During the next period, from five to ten 
years, the growth of boys is more rapid than that of girls, the weight of 
the former being from 2 to 3 pounds more, on the average, (c) During 
the third period, from ten to fifteen years, conditions are changed, the 
growth of girls taking the lead. From the age of twelve and a half to 
fourteen and a half years girls are taller than boys, and from the age of 
twelve and a half to fifteen and a half years their weight exceeds that 



FACTOKS GOVEKNING FOOD REQUIRED 267 

of boys of the same age by 3 or 4 pounds, (d) During the period from 
fifteen to twenty years, boys again come to the fore, and grow more 
rapidly than girls; the weight of boys increases yearly at the rate of 
6.9 pounds, while that of girls is 2.75 pounds, (e) At the age of twenty- 
three years, boys have attained the limit of growth in height, but in 
breadth and weight they continue to increase. Girls, on the other hand, 
at about twenty years of age have attained their full height and weight, 
the latter remaining practically stationary until the age of twenty-five 
or even thirty years. (/) In general, adults begin to increase in weight 
after thirty-five years of age at the annual rate of three-quarters of a 
pound, a change most often unwelcome and not of advantage. The rela- 
tive weights of men and women of the same age vary with the height, up 
to the height of 07 inches, men as a rule weighing more than women ; 
but when over 67 inches in height, women are generally heavier than 
men of the same height and age, and especially after middle life the 
weight of women may greatly increase. 

The generally accepted statement that the quantity of food ingested 
should be regulated by the size and weight of the body, offers no excep- 
tion as regards the food of individuals of different sexes; the normal 
height and weight of a woman being less than those of a man, a smaller 
quantity of food than that required by a man should meet the needs of 
the average woman. An important point to note is that this smaller 
metabolism of food should be looked at from the standpoint of the per- 
sonal equation relating to the sex of the individual, rather than the nor- 
mally lower average size and weight of a woman. The following table 
illustrates this fact by showing the difference in the quantity of food 
taken daily by an active man and woman of identical age and height 
who were able to maintain their nutritive and nitrogenous equilibrium 
upon the amounts here designated: 

Protein 

Man . 100 gm. 

Woman 60 gm. 

Atwater established the principle that the daily ration for a healthy 
woman should be 0.8 of that of a man. As a general rule, it is usually 
held that a woman requires about the same amount of protein and energy, 
weight for weight, as a man under similar circumstances. The amount 
of energy required to execute a definite amount of work is the same, 
whether it is performed by a woman or is done by a man ; consequently, 
the supply of food should be the same. Tibbies says : "On the other hand, 



Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Cal. 


70 gm. 


400 gm. 


2,700 


67 gm. 


340 gm. 


2,263 



268 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

it frequently happens that the expenditure of energy on the part of a 
woman to produce a definite amount of work is greater than that ex- 
pended by a man doing the same identical work." 

Food Requirements as Influenced by the Internal Secretions 
OF Woman. — It is claimed that the internal secretion of the ovaries facili- 
tates the oxidation of carbohydrates and the organized phosphorus of the 
food. There are other circumstances in the life of a woman which influ- 
ence the demand for food. We know that their sex is subject to a wave 
of metabolic activity which is at its highest just before each menstrual 
period. During this metabolic disturbance the organism calls for an 
increase in the nitrogen metabolism, and a decrease in the carbon metab- 
olism. There also appears at this time the formation of new blood cells, 
with an increasing amount of nerve force and general vigor. During the 
menstrual epoch there is a small loss of weight due to the increased excre- 
tion of carbonic acid and water, although the protein metabolism is 
diminished. There is an increase in weight during pregnancy, notwith- 
standing the increased combustion of non-nitrogenous elements; there is 
usually an increase in the size of the organs of lactation and parturition 
and a deposition of fat in the adipose tissue. These metabolic changes 
call for an increased amount of food to the daily ration, which practically 
means that the woman should consume about double the ordinary amount 
of protein, and have a greatly increased amount of the fuel foods. 

Kind of Work. — The quantity of food necessary for an adult must be 
regulated rather by the amount of work performed than by the size, 
weight or other characteristics of the body. These requirements of the 
body are analogous to those of a machine, and well they may be, as the 
body itself is a living machine. It is a truism that the greater the expen- 
diture of energy hy a machine in the performance of work, the more fuel 
it will demand for the generation of that energy. 

The human machinery performs work of two types, internal and 
external work. The internal work consists of that done by the organs 
of digestion, respiration and circulation, by the neuro-muscular system 
which maintains the body temperature, and muscle tone; and by the 
glandular system in keeping up the supply of the secretions and excre- 
tions. The external work includes the activities of the voluntary mus- 
cular system and the process of heat radiation from the body. According 
to Atwater's experiments, a man at rest in the respiratory calorimeter 
liberated during two hours 150 calories; while working a stationary 
bicycle for two hours, 500 calories ; and while working the same machine 
against resistance for a period of two hours, 1,000 calories. It follows, 



FACTORS GOVERNING FOOD REQUIRED 269 

therefore, that the supply of food must keep pace with the amount of 
work to be done, or else the body tissues themselves will be used up as 
fuel for the generation of the energy expended. 

Choice of Food. — The necessity for increasing the allowance of food 
in proportion to the amount of work the body is expected to do has always 
been recognized. Many research workers have made observation upon 
the food consumed by individuals who were allowed a free choice of food, 
and found that, with diets having the fuel values in "Standard Die- 
taries," nutrition of such individuals was fairly normal and the nitrogen 
balance in the state of equilibrium. They concluded, therefore, that the 
menus given fairly well represented the aliment required by these persons. 

A close study of the table ^ on page 270 shows that when Americans and 
Europeans are free to choose their own food, they seldom select that which 
will yield less than 100 grams of protein per day. 

When the choice of food rests with the individual, it is often found 
upon observation that a male rarely consumes less than 90 grams of protein 
per day. For economic and other reasons, there are many thousands who 
necessarily consume a much smaller quantity, because meat, fish, fowl, 
milk, eggs and cheese are dearer than bread, potatoes, rice, oatmeal, etc. 
Maurel(15), who has devoted much attention to the subject, claims that, 
"to maintain the body in nitrogen equilibrium when no muscular work is 
being performed, an adult in full health and vigor weighing 154 pounds 
requires for maintenance 105 grams of protein in a ration yielding about 
2,600 calories of energy; a woman weighing 132 pounds requires 90 
grams of protein in a ration yielding about 2,200 calories of energy." 
Our experience leads us to assert that these figures are probably very 
near the mark. 

Rubner, in studying the specific dynamic action of foodstuffs, came 
to the conclusion that each type of food seemed to exert a more or less 
specific action upon the energy yielded ; "so that, when the foodstuffs were 
fed separately, somewhat different energy values were required for the 
maintenance of body equilibrium." He observed a man who metabolized 
in fasting 2,042 calories; and when fed, 2,450 calories; in the form of 
sugar alone he metabolized 2,08Y calories ; when fed 2,450 calories in the 
form of meat alone, he metabolized 2,566 calories. This experiment 
clearly shows that the eating of protein increased the metabolism far 
more than could be done by eating the same number of calories in the 
form of carbohydrate and fat. Rubner believes that this specific dynamic 
action of protein involves the liberation of energy which has not come to 

1 Bulletin No. 52, p. 24, U. S. Dept. of Agric, and other sources. 



270 



THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 






C t^ »o O O 



lOOOQO 
I lO lO O O -— I 



) O CO O IM O 
> C^ CC O lO t^ 



O •-< «0 O O CO i-i ■* (N O 

00 «o c^ ic oo <M lO 'r'P^ca 



t- t^ »0 O O Q lO lO O O — I Q C^ CO O lO t^ O 00 'W C^ lO 00 <M lO »-• 05 W 
.2 -^^O^N^^iq^p^OO^^O^OO^C^^^OO^^O O_C^^00^00_^'-*^00_^O^O 0_0^»0 t>._^»-J^ C5 (N^-^ 

"^ CO'co'co'cO^TjTcvf Tir,-r(N"'-H"(>f N"co'(N"^"Tireo'^Tjrco"(N~»o"c^"c^''co'' (N'-H'cf 



Oh 



o 



T-< ^ O O O a>(N <0 O O O lO t^ O (N CO O ^ CO -H 00 OHO CO t^ ■>* t>. 

lo CO (N •* -^ «o i^ »o oj CO 00 00 o t^ cs -^ Tt< o ^ t>. lo ic a> i>. cotj*oo 

1— li— It— II— ll— ( J— ( t— ( I— tl— (1— tl— I f-S 



■% 









e § 2 

P " s 

fe O '1 

_ 03 



- 08 



5 z: '^s -g -^ 8 =2 



J3 O 5 



^ 






d 

c» 45 c5 O fe 02 c5 



C r< S -fci (13 « 5j 



^1 

eJ.S 



C -^ O « OJ S 

S5 ^= WJ^S 



o '^'' to Q o OJ 3 



*J *^ ii 

o 



.2!»0Q©)Q»CC^C0C^<©OO>f5 

b-^ooco«0'n'— "^'oos-^ — CO 
^ lO CS_^ (M_^ »q^ "t i^. ^ °C_ "^^ '". ^_ <^^ 
08 co'co'-^'co'-^'m cf i-Tc^'oi^fco 



O »f5 >f5 »<5 »0 O O >0 iC O 

SCO IM 00 •^ CO C^ CO "-H O 
_ M Tl»^ W t>._ CO_ -^^ (M_ 

CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 



a 

I 



S <N ^-^CO £2^ MC^ iCC Q O COOOSQ^^cpO t*"^ OOb- 

oSOiO iM V I* C^ 0^00 '^O O O O — 1 O O O O C5 o-^ ow 






c 



5 



3 
CO 




c c S 



Hoi^l^W 



..s il^ >;o "^ -s «2 

c . 2 - S -5 ... 



•- o 



gc3 



E 2 

.So 

go 
o> 



FACTORS GOVERNING FOOD REQUIRED 271 

the surface of the tissues and which does not directly contribute to the 
support of their activities, although it aids in the maintenance of the 
body temperature. This apparent loss of a part of the fuel value of protein 
of an ordinary mixed diet is not a very important factor in the total body 
metabolism, since this specific dynamic action and the work of digestion 
and assimilation together make the total daily metabolism of energy only 
about one-tenth higher on a maintenance ration than when no food is 
eaten (Sherman). 

Intensity of Muscular Activity. — In practice, it will often be diificult 
to estimate the mechanical equivalent of muscular work performed and 
still it is often necessary to make use of such indefinite terms as "active," 
"severe," etc., to describe the intensity of the exertion, and thus indicate 
in a general way the amount of work performed. 

Atwater and Benedict (16), after a great deal of research and experi- 
mentation, epitomized the results of many work experiments with vigor- 
ous young men in the respiratory calorimeter, and have derived the follow- 
ing estimates of the average rates of metabolism, under different condi- 
tions of activity : 

Man sleeping 65 calories per hour 

Man sitting at rest 100 " " " 

Man at light muscular exercise 170 " " " 

Man at active muscular exercise 290 " " " 

Man at very severe muscular exercise . . 600 " " " 

From these estimates the requisite rations may be calculated as fol- 
lows: 

8 hours of sleep at 65 calories equal 520 calories 

2 hours' light exercise at 170 calories equal .... 340 " 

8 hours' active exercise at 290 calories equal. . 2,320 " 

6 hours' sitting at rest at 100 calories equal. . . 600 " 



Total food requirement for the day 3,780 calories 

If the working day be spent in severe muscular exertions, the day's 
ration would be estimated at 5,060 calories. The requisite amount of 
calories for one in sedentary occupation, such as sitting at a desk, would 
require only 2,260 calories. 

Tigerstedt(17) gives the following estimates of food requirements for 



272 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

different occupations, indicating the intensity of work performed and the 
caloric needs: 

2,001-2,400 calories suffice for a shoemaker 

2,401-2,700 " " for a weaver 

2,701-3,200 " " for a carpenter or mason 

3,201-4,100 " " for a farm laborer 

4,101-5,000 " " for an excavator 

Over 5,000 " " for a lumberman 

Graham Lusk(18) gives the following estimate of food in calories for 
the requisite occupations of women : 

1,800 calories suffice for a seamstress using a needle 
1,900-2,100 calories suffice for a seamstress using a machine 
1,900-2,100 " " for bookbinders 

2,300-2,900 " " for household servants 

2,600-3,400 " " for washerwomen 

Food requirements for occupations of men : 

2,400-2,500 calories suffice for a tailor 
2,700-2,800 " " for a bookbinder 

3,100-3,200 " " for metal workers 

3,200-3,300 " " for a painter 

4,300-4,700 " " for stonemasons 

5,000-5,400 " " for wood-sawyera 

The estimated amount of food in calories for wood-sawyers emphasizes 
the fact that "wood-sawing is a strenuous occupation." This proverbial 
occupation has a scientific verification in the above statement and explains 
the disinclination of the hungry to engage in this useful occupation as 
well as the unpopularity of charitable wood yards. 

On page 273 we give a table, taken from Lu8k(19), of food values with 
cost per 1,000 calories for various fundamental foodstuffs and the per- 
centage of protein contained in 1,000 calories. 

The foods in the following table were purchased on the New York mar- 
kets at the prices named. If the expense of cooking and serving and other 
overhead charges be included, the cost somewhat increases. Thus, at 
Childs' and other similar restaurants in New York, a portion of pork and 
beans served with three slices of bread and a pat of butter costs 20 cents, 
representing a well-balanced ration of 1,000 calories. The same could be 



FACTOES GOVEENING FOOD EEQUIEED 



273 



FOOD VALUES WITH COST PER 1,000 CALORIES 



Foods 



Cost in cents per 


Per cent of 


1,000 calories 


calories in protein 


IVs 





2 


8 


2K 


12 


2V6 


13 


3H 





4 


19 


4K 


1 


5 


7 


5H 


12 


7H 





7M 


8 


10 





10 


17 


lOM 


34 


11% 


25 


12M 


18 


16M 


30 


24 


37 


40M 


37 



Glucose 

Corn meal. . . . 
Wheat flour. . . 

Oatmeal 

Cane sugar . . . 
Dried beans . . 
Salt pork (fat) 

Rice 

Wheat bread. . 
Oleomargarine 

Potatoes 

Butter 

Milk 

Smoked ham. . 

Cheese 

Loin pork . . . . 
Leg of mutton 
Sirloin beef. . . 
Turkey 



served in the home at a cost of about 10 cents, and most people, after 
ingesting such a repast would feel comfortably satisfied. Of course, it is 
understood that this menu would not satisfy everybody, especially not 
those in the upper classes who demand the luxuries of the world without 
rendering to the world an equivalent therefor. 

Before leaving the subject of the relation of muscular activity to 
metabolism, it may be well to point out that the expenditure of energy 
in the muscular system does not depend simply upon the muscular move- 
ments performed, but to a considerable extent upon the degree of tension 
or tone maintained in the muscle while in a condition of rest. It is 
obvious to the surgeon that every living muscle is always in a state of 
tension from the fact that it gapes when its muscular sheath is cut. It is 
equally true that the degree of tension varies greatly under different con- 
ditions. Atwater and Benedict observed the differences between the 
metabolism of sleeping hours and that of the hours spent sitting up with- 
out muscular movements which are due largely to the more complete 
relaxation of the muscles during sleep. From this we find that there 
is in the resting muscles continual expenditure of energy which takes the 
form of muscular tension or tone, but ultimately appears as heat, so that 
the heat production or energy metabolism of the body in a condition of 
rest depends largely upon the degree of tension which normally exists 
in the muscle. 



274 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

REGULATION OF BODY TEMPERATURE 

The regulation of body temperature has been most ably discussed 
by Lusk(19), who avers that the maintenance of body heat beyond that of 
its usual environment requires a continual output of energy. This outgo 
of heat is controlled by mechanisms which permit of {a) variations in 
the reduction of temperature due to the quantity of blood Drought to the 
surface of the skin — radiation, conduction and sweating — which is termed 
physical regulation; and (6) by variations in heat production brought 
about by an increase in the rate of oxidation in the body in response to 
the stimulus of external cold, which is termed chemical regulation. The 
increase in heat production following the ingestion of food (already con- 
sidered in the previous pages of this work) may take the place of "chem- 
ical regulation" and thereby aid in the protection of loss of body tempera- 
ture. The presence of a cushion of adipose tissue under the skin, together 
with suitable clothing for the external surface of the body also helps to keep 
down the loss of heat to the minimum of "physical regulation." 

A sudden change downward in the external temperature increases 
the heat formation, augments the excretion of carbon dixoid, and the 
consumption of oxygen in warm blooded animals. A sudden change 
upward in the atmospheric temperature increases metabolism in warm- 
blooded animals, and this change is greater if the animal be placed in 
hot or cold water than if it be merely subjected to the influence of hot 
or cold air. 

Von Noorden(20) explains the significance of an increase in heat 
production in cold weather, as due to extra precautions — food, clothing, 
etc. — to offset the increased heat losses incidental to the external tempera- 
ture. Senator was the first to offer an explanation of this phenomenon. 
He held that the increased excretion of carbon dioxid was due to active 
muscular movements. No one at present questions but "ihat there is an 
increase of about 100 per cent in carbon dioxid excretion after a cold 
bath, which is due, no doubt, to active muscular movements. It may be 
questioned that there may be a slight rise in carbon dioxid excretion 
without any visible movement or alteration in the tension of the muscles. 

The question of an involuntary heat regulation has been definitely 
settled by Voit's animal experiments and also confirmed by Rubner's 
studies. The latter studied the metabolism of a man who was kept in the 
same cold room with different amounts of clothing, and he observed that 
when the subject was clothed sufficiently to be comfortable the "chemical 
regulation" was eliminated. Rubner emphasized the fact that suppres- 



REGULATION OF BODY TEMPERATURE 275 

sioii of shivering aud tlie inhibition of muscular activity when subjected 
to external cold is an unnatural condition for a person subjected to great 
cold, and one that never occurs normally. 

Physical Heat Regulation — ^An increase in heat dissipation by means 
of conduction, radiation and evaporation comes into play as Nature's 
means of avoiding overheating; a diminution, on the other hand, pre- 
vents lowering of the body temperature. The amount of heat present 
in the body falls under the influence of cold, and it does not rise, even 
when the individual is placed in a warm bed, until active movements 
again furnish the necessary amount of heat to raise the temperature 
to normal. (Johansson.) 

Chemical Heat Regulation — Chemical heat regulation, like physical 
heat regulation, reaches a limit below which it cannot go. According to 
von Noorden, "The chemical energy set free in vital processes which is 
inseparably associated with the development of heat, cannot go below a 
certain limit. Only that form of heat production previously referred to 
as being associated with increased functional capacity of working organs 
can be excluded." 

The extra heat required during cold weather is, in all probability, 
derived in most part through the activity of the muscles. It is a matter 
of every-day occurrence, in cold climates during winter weather, to see 
a man, a wagon-driver, for instance, stop and strenuously exercise his 
arms — if he did Jiot do this, he would sit on the driver's box and shiver — 
a peculiar form of voluntary muscular activity whose function seems to 
be to increase heat production through increasing the internal work of the 
body. After all, it will be seen that the regulation of body temperature, 
even under exposure to cold, is brought about by the activity and tension 
of the muscles, the relation of which to metabolism and food requirement 
has just been considered. 

Voit, in a discussion on the "heat balance" in warm and cold climates 
during both winter and summer, says that involuntary chemical heat 
regulation in the cold, which he admits exists within certain limits, is 
insufficient in the frozen, zone. Here the inhabitants in addition to being 
clothed in furs, are driven to strenuous exercise in order to maintain body 
temperature. Only in so far as the movements increased are the food 
requirements augmented in the Arctic regions. The same law holds good 
in tropical countries — the food is lessened and the inhabitants move along 
the lines of least resistance. The enormous amount of food which the 
Eskimo can ingest with impunity has already been referred to, and 
emphasizes the point of the greater functional capacity of the alimentary 



276 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

canal in the natives of cold countries, as compared with the abstemious- 
ness of the Arab and his ability to greater endurance of hunger and' 
thirst. Our digestive system and nervous mechanism which controls it 
are affected both by heat and cold, and as a result most people consume 
more food in winter than in summer, although the body requirements 
remain practically the same all the time. 

The Surface Areas of the Skin in Heat Regulation. — The greatest loss of 
heat is from the body surface. Fully 90 per cent and upward of the 
whole amount takes place by radiation, conduction and evaporation from 
the skin. The actual figures are given in a tabulation on the next page. 
The reason the skin is able to act as one of the most important organs for 
regulating body temperature are: (a) that it offers a large surface for 
radiation, (6) it contains a large amount of blood, and (c) the quantity 
of the circulating fluid is greater under the circumstances which demand 
a loss of heat and vice versa. The effects of a hot atmosphere on the skin 
surface, through the nerve fibers, causes a relaxation of the muscular 
fibers of the blood vessels ; and, as a result, the skin becomes full-blooded, 
hot and sweating — leading to much loss of heat. 

On the other hand, with a low temperature, the blood vessels shrink, 
the skin becomes pale and cold and dry ; thus by means of a self-regulating 
apparatus, the skin is the most important organ for the regulation of body 
temperature. 

It is a recognized fact that size, height and weight are important 
factors in heat regulation. Actual experiments upon animals, says 
Howell, "show that small animals produce more heat in proportion to their 
weight than larger animals of the same species, owing to the relatively 
larger surface, and, therefore, greater loss of heat." This point was first 
emphasized by Rubner and, according to his law, the metabolism is pro- 
portional to the surface area of the body, or, in other words, for the same 
amount of surface area there will be the same production of heat. On 
the following page will be found a table giving the surface area in square 
meters of people of different heights and weights, showing the requisite 
calories during a 24-hour period, to which we will refer later. 

Regulation of Heat loss — The regulation of heat loss is the most 
important problem which the physiologists of to-day have to elucidate(21). 
Experiments plainly show that heat regulation is very complex; the body, 
as we have just emphasized, possesses a means of controlling heat loss as 
well as the production of heat, and under normal conditions both func- 
tions are in active use. 



kegulatio:n^ of body temperature 



277 



Q 

< 

1-3 

o 
<^ 



CS3 

H 
Q 

o 



§ o 



Ph 

l-I 



o 

I— ( 

H 

o 

Q 

o 

Ph 

H 

<< 







bC 
§ 






V. 


les, 
les, 
hly 


^ 

2 








> 


»H ;=:: 




,bC 


00 


1 

il 




M 


3 S 3 -£3 


Ic 


Ol 




-g .s g 

3 c3 -^^ S 


03 2 S S 
<» « 


oT 


-g 1 
■3 a 


"S is 


^ 


=3 M 2 

S ?: M . bC .3 
« >;> T3 T3 a 

g ;3 ^ S.£f)S.bc;S 


03 

13 


^ a 


li 
5 


+3 

o 

% 
a 

02 


t5 g cj 0) .bC 
02 ^ 02 


S --^ ..2 

§ B s a 

3 .-3 S ..^ 

■2 +^ 'S -^^ -^^ .2 -*^ 

s3j:3 C3j::3j^;3j5 rj 

■J2.S°-^.^.^ a^.£P2 


«^ -fj 












Number o 
days dur- 
ing which 
experimen 
continued 












(N 


1-H lO ■^ 1-H GO 


1-H (N 1-H CO CO ■* 


05 


I-H 1-H 10 <N 1-H 






CO 
















alories 
ler sq. 
eter of 
body 
arface 


lO 


O 05 Tj< 05 05 


CO"* »0 »0 -.^ (M 


CO 


»0 t^OO CO 


1-H 


1— 1 CO i-H lO >o 


IXM ■* t^ 05 rj< 


(N 


CO (N CO 10 05 


t^ 


t^ 00 OO t^ t^ 


t^I> 00 t^ t^ t^ 


t^ 


t^ t^ t^OO 00 


O » S CO 












"tJ oS ^ 


05 


CO 0:1 C5 ^ O 


10 (N to 1—1 1-H 00 





0005COO 


l^ 


10 00 10 


^ Tf ,-H 05 0> 00 





10 10 CO CO 00 


o«S . 


-* 


CO (N (M <M i-H 


1— ( 1-H 1-H 05 


05^ 


O5_O5^Oi^00__t^_^ 














(N 


<N (M (M (N (N 


(N (N (M (N (N T-H 


i-T 




<1> 3 bC 












•c O^ 


(N 


CO iM OS (N CO 


»o 05 >or^ 05 »o 


CO 


OS-* 10 ■* 1-1 


Caloi 
perh 

and '. 


00 


00 Oi Oi 


05 00 Oi 05 05 


05 


05 05 05 1-H (M 


c5 


d 1-i odd 


d d r-i d d d 


d 


d d d 1-H rH 












m 












.^Tt^ M 


CO 


COOOO(N 


t^ t^ T-H 10 


10 


(N 00 1^ 00 


ialor 
in 2 
houi 


t^ 


t^ 10 05 t^ CO 


10 lOOO (N <0 l^ 


■* 


05 i-H CO CO 05 


t^ 


cD^ oo^i>._^o^cq^ 


co^ic^r^_^co_ cq_ -^^ 


TjH^ 


■* Tjl T}< 10 10 


1-H 


1-H 1-H 1-H 1-H 1-H 


1-H 1-H 1-H 1-H 1-H 1-H 


i-T 


r^ 1-^ 1-^ 1-^ -^ 


o 






















1000 


bC bi) 


Tt^ 


10 qqcqq 


t^ (N 05 





q q 10 rH q 


■S/»< 


d 


CO d d 10 CO 


(N c<i 1-H d d ->*' 


10 


CO 00 C<J t^ ■'ti 
CO CO CO 10 lO 


^ 


05 


00 t^ t^ t^ t^ 


t^t^ t^t^ t^ <n 


CO 


:S . 






10 10 




10 10 




00 


'^ 00 00 «o 


1-1 CO d CO CO "^ 


T-l 


e^-"* (N (N 


00 


■^^ t^lr^t^OO 


t^ t^ 05 t^ t^ -— ' 


t^ 


^-^t^ CO t^ 10 


w 


1-H 


1-H 1-H 1-H i-H 


J-H rH 1-H 1-H 1-H 


1-H 


1-H I-H rH 1-H 




fl 






2 










: : :a 




i 


o 

VI 

<D 
PI 


< 

i ^ 


^^ 


CO 
M 






m 




02 


|g4 




< 


p: ^h^c^q 




^ 


-^" P5 CB P3 - . 

S t; ^h' t-'Q 




Q 


t-s 


UQQQ^ 


is 


rH 




lOCO t^OO T-H 


(N 


CO-* >oco t^ 


1-° 














I-H 


1-H 


I-H 1—1 I-H 1-H t-H 





118 



278 THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

As we have already seen, heat loss from our bodies is accounted for as 
follows : 

(a) From expirations from the lungs. 

(6) By evaporation of sweat from the skin. 

(c) By conduction and radiation from the skin. 

(^d) Through the excreta, urine, feces, saliva. 

The approximate percentages of heat lost in this manner, according 
to Vierodt, are as follows: 

(a) From expirations from lungs 3.5 per cent or 84 cal. 

(6) Vaporization of water from lungs 7.2 " « « 182 " 

(c) By evaporation from the skin 14.5 « « « 364 " 

(d) By conduction and radiation from skin 73.0 " " "1,792 " 

(e) By urine and feces 1.8 « " « 48 « 

Total daily loss 2,470 cal. 

Howell, in commenting on this observation, says the relative import- 
ance of these factors will, of course, vary with conditions; for instance, 
a high external temperature will aid in the diminishing loss from radia- 
tion, while increasing that from evaporation, owing to the greater pro- 
duction of sweat. 

]Many examples may be given of the power which the body possesses 
of resisting the effects of a high temperature, in virtue of evaporation 
from the skin. Blagden and others supported a temperature varying 
between 92°-100° C. (198°-212° F.) in dry air for several minutes; 
and in a subsequent experiment the former remained eight minutes in a 
temperature of 126.5° C. (260° F.). According to Carpenter: 

The workmen of Sir F. Chantrey were accustomed to enter a furnace, in 
which his molds were dried, while the floor was red hot, and a thermometer in 
the air stood at 177.8° C. (350° F.), and Chabert, the fire-king, was in the habit 
of entering an oven, the temperature of which was from 205°-315° C. (400°- 
600° F.) (Carpenter.) 

But such heats are pot tolerable when the air is moist as well as hot, 
though this condition;- prevents evaporation from the body. C. James 
states that, in the vapor baths of Nero, he was almost suffocated in a tem- 
perature of 44.5° C. (112° F.), while in the caves of Testaccio, in which 
the air is dry, he was but little incommoded by a temperature of 80° 0. 
(176° F.). In the former, evaporation from the skin was impossible; 
in the latter it was abundant, and the layer of vapor which would rise 
from all the surface of the body would, by its slowly conducting power, 



REGULATION OF BODY TEMPERATURE 279 

defend it for a time from the full action of the external heat. (Kirk's 
^'Handbook of Physiology.") 

Under ordinary conditions we are able by suitable clothing to increase 
or diminish the amount of heat lost by the skin. The ways by which the 
skin may be rendered more efficient as a cooling apparatus, too, by ex- 
posure, by baths, and by other means which man instinctively adopts for 
lowering his temperature when necessary, are too well known to require 
more than passing mention. 

Production of Heat During Rest — The production of heat during rest 
varies in different individuals according to height, weight, to the super- 
ficial area of their bodies, and to their condition of health. 

In the following table is reproduced the metabolism of adult males 
per minute — worked out according to Zunt's method. The subjects of 
these experiments were in absolute muscular rest during the observation. 
The age, height and weight are recorded, the respiratory quotient ascer- 
tained, and the total calories for the twenty-four hours estimated and the 
calories per hour per kilogram of body weight. The minimum resting 
metabolism is estimated by measurement of the gaseous interchange during 
sleep or during fasting, at least twelve hours after the ingestion of food. 
Von ]^oorden(20) in his research on this point "replaces the quantity 
of carbon dioxid excreted by the heat factor which can be deduced from 
the ratio existing between the quantity of carbon dioxid eliminated and 
the amount of heat formed during twenty-four hours." Atwater's calori- 
metric experiments are especially valuable, both on account of the care 
with which they were carried out and by reason of their repeated 
repetition. 

The table on the following page shows height, weight and the area 
of body surface in square meters, the calories per hour per kilogram of 
body weight and total calories for the twenty-four hour period. Even 
these numbers derived from resting metabolism, possibly do not represent 
the minimal metabolism during rest, since deep sleep does not usually 
extend over more than from six to eight hours. 

Resume — From previous discussion of this subject, it will be observed 
that although individuals of excessive weight have a greater metabolism 
than those of slighter build, yet the metabolism, according to von N^oorden, 
does not increase in direct proportion to weight, but less rapidly. There- 
fore, when considering the unit of weight to metabolism, it is well to recol- 
lect it is usually smaller in the case of heavy than of light individuals. 
It will be seen, from carefully studying the table, that absolute metabolism 
does not run parallel with body weight, but more nearly proportionally 



280 



THE CALORIC METHOD OF FEEDING 



Wrt 



o 
O 












o 



OS 



o 



o 



P4 












bO 
-Si 






o 

^2; 




a ^ > 

O oj +* 



,2 ^ S3 .^ ^ ^ 



g.S 03 



„, rt 3 C! 3_ 
OJ- ^--^ S^^ 



C 3 3 S 



oi" 
C 3. 






05 >0 GO Q I— I 00 t>. «0 05 
MO O W ^ O O Ci Oi 

^* ^" ^ ^" ^ ^ ^ o c5 



CO Tj^ 
CO (M 



"5 t>. OS O «0 00 00 

^H M I— I 1— ( »f5 CS O 

ec >o lO lo «o •>* «o 






oqc^ompioio M «ow 

(N 00 00 <N' 00 (N M Q >d 00 

00 iX> 00 <r> QC CO o> O N-t^ 

I-Hi-Hi— li— li-H-Hi— ( C^ I-H»H 



oi 05 C^i ^ ■ O 'H 



.CO 

•cd 

• (N 



^§8 



OO »0 00 Q Tt< Q CO t^ ^ t>. 

p •^ 05 p 05 »o 00 OS "^ ■-; 
eo CO c^ c^ N c4 <N (N c^ ?i 



CO ^ CO CO 



§ 00 



■oo 

• -^ CO 

• t^OO 



00 



p : p »o : p 






wp oqp»«ppp>o lo pp 
CO 00 Q CO CO 00 •^" in t>^ t^' CO ci 

•«!t< Tt< lO lO lO »0 CO CO CO CO t>. 00 



CO CO o — < c^ -< t>. r>- 

ifJ»Ot>.COb-COCO CO 



c5q ►JcS^dQCuQ Q 



N3, 



a* 

'-s'-s 



QQ 



T-(C^ CO -^ »r3 CO t>. 00 OS O i-H (M 



5 S 

o '^ 
Oh 



O OS (M 

osr^ o 



o 



c4 



gs s 



ii 

o 



O OS 
CO ^ 

o o 



M CO 



t^ — I 

OS OS 



t^ 00 



OS 
CO 






/^H 



REGULATION OF BODY TEMPERATURE 281 

with the surface area of the body. Bergman was convinced of this fact 
several decades ago, and Rubner and von Noorden have confirmed it by 
numerous experiments. 

Again we reiterate that a tall thin man has a greater area of body 
surface for a given weight tlian a short stout man. "Besides, normal men 
may vary as much as 10 per cent from the average in relation of surface 
area to body weight. The spare thin man, besides having a greater surface 
area, also differs from the stout short man in that he has a greater per- 
centage of actual protoplasm." Now, since the metabolism of the body 
depends upon its weight of protoplasm (active tissue) rather than total 
corporeal weight, we have here, according to Sherman (4), an important 
reason for assuming that the food requirement will be greater in the tall 
than in the short individual of the same weight. Von Noorden tested this 
question by observing two individuals of the same weight but different 
build for a period of one day. His results were as follows : 

Thin man Weight, 71.0 kilo., 2,392 cal., 33.6 cal. per kilo. 

Stout man Weight, 73.6 kilo., 2,136 cal., 29.0 cal. per kilo. 

Finally, for the majority of individuals, it will be safe in calculating 
a dietary to proceed as if the form, height, weight and body surface area 
were constant without falling into serious error. 

REFERENCES 

1. Atwater. Methods and Results of Investigations on the Chemistry 

and Economy of Food, Office of Exper. Sta., U. S. Dept. Agric, 
1895, Bull. No. 21; Neue Versuche ueber Stoff- und Kraft- 
wechsel, Ergebn. d. Physiol., vol. iii, 1904. 

2. Langworthy. Digest of Metabolism, U. S. Dept. of Agric, 1898, 

Exper. Bull. No. 45. 

3. Atwatek and Snell. J. Amer. Chem. Soc, July, 1903. 

4. Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 

5. Hall, Winfield S. Nutrition and Dietetics, New York, 1913. 

6. RuBNER. Ztsch. f. Biol., 1885, vol. xxi, pp. 250-257. 

7. Chittenden. The Nutrition of Man. 

8. Tibbles, William. Food in Health and Disease. 

9. RuBNER. Ztsch. f. Biol., vol. xlii. 

10. Beaumont. Physiology of Digestion, pp. 9-115, Plattsburgh, 1833, 
Amer. J. Physiol. 1, p. 374, 1898. 



282 THE CALOEIC METHOD OF FEEDING 

11. Cannon, W. B. The Mechanical Factors of Digestion, New York, 

1911. 

12. Locke, E. A. Food Values, pub. by D. Appleton & Co., 1915. 

13. HuEBNER. Deutsch. med. Wochenschr. 

14. TiBBLES. Loc cit., p. 86. 

15. Maurel. Rev. Soc. scient d'hyg. aliment., 1906. 

16. At WATER and Benedict. Exper. Sta., U. S. Dept. Agric, Bull. 

Nos. 44, 63, 69, 109, 136. 

17. Tigerstedt. Text-book of Physiology. 

18. LusK, Graham. Med. Rec, April 25th, 1914. 

19. . The Elements of the Science of Nutrition. 

20. VON Noorden. Metabolism and Practical Medicine. 

21. Howell, W. H. Text-book of Physiology. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Abderhalden. Handbuch der biochemischen Arbeitsmethoden, 1910, 

Bd. IIL 
Armsby. Principles of Animal Nutrition, Chaps. 7 to 10. 
At water. Methods and Results of Investigation on the Chemistry and 

Economy of Food, Office of Exper. Sta., U. S. Dept. of Agric, 

1895, Bull. No. 21. 

. Ihid. 

. Neue Versuche ueber Stoff- und Kraftweclisel, Ergeb. d. 

Physiol. 3, 1904. 
and Langworthy. A Digest of Metabolism Experiments, U. S. 

Dept. of Agric, 1898, Bull. No. 45, Office of Exper. Sta. 
and Benedict. A Respiration Calorimeter with Appliances for 

the Direct Determination of Oxygen, Carnegie Institution of 



Washington, 1905, Pub. No. 126. 

Benedict and Carpenter. The Metabolism and Energy Transforma- 
tions of Healthy Men During Rest. Ihid. 

Fisher. A New Method for Indicating Food Values, A. J. Physiol., vol. 
XV, 417. 

LusK. Elements of the Science of Nutrition, 2d ed., 1909, pp. 17-45. 

Mendel and Swartz. The Physiological Utilization of Some Complex 
Carbohydrates, A. J. Med. Sci., March, 1910. 

MuRLiN. The Nutritive Value of Gelatin, Am. J. Physiol., xix, 285-313 ; 
XX, 234-258, 1907-1908. 



I 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 283 

N"agel. Handbuch der Physiologie des Menschen, 1909, pp. 331-375. 

Oppenheimer. Handbuch der Biochemie, II, 1-92. 

Reitz and Mitchell. On the Metabolism Experiment as a Statistical 

Problem, J. Biol. Chem., 8, 297-326, 190. 
Rubneb. Der Energiewert der Kost des Menschen, Ztsch. f. Biol. (n. f.), 

24, 261-308 (901). 
. Die Gesetze des Energieverbrauches bei der Ernahrung 

(1902). 
Tallqvist. Zur Frage des Einflusses von Fett and Kohlenhydrat auf 

den Eiweissumsatz. 
Tigeestedt. Text-book of Physiology, 1906, Chapter 4. 
VoiT. Arch. f. Hyg., 41, 1902, 177-189. 
and ZisTERER. Bedingt die verschiedene Zusammensetzung 

der Eiweisskorper anch einen Unterschied in ihrem ISTahrwert ? 

Ztschr. f. Biol. (KF.) 
voT«- !N"ooRDEN. Metabolism and Practical Medicine, vol. i, pp. 185-207. 
Watsoi^ and Hunter. Observations on Diet. The Influence of Diet on 

Growth and !N"utrition, J. Physiol., vol. xxxiv, pp. 111-132, 

1906. 



CHAPTER X 



GENERAL NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

General Considerations. 

Metabolism: Anabolisra and Catabolism. 

Metabolism Experiments: Balance of Income and Outgo; Respiratory 
Quotient. 

Factors Which Affect Metabolism: Consumption of Food; Fasting; Effect 
of Nitrogenous Diet on Metabolism; Carbohydrates as Protein 
Sparers; Fat Versus Carbohydrates as Protein Sparers; Gelatin as a 
Protein Sparer; Alcohol as a Protein Sparer; Metabolism of Water; 
Metabolism of Mineral Substances; Acid-Forming and Base-Forming 
Elements. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

In the study of metabolism, we become acquainted with the exchanges 
of material by which vital phenomena are produced, and the conversion of 
chemical force into "living energy." The various metabolic processes 
are not the same in all organs and tissues. Eor instance, the functions of 
the liver and of the pancreas are distinctly different. Valuable data have 
been obtained by physiologists who have painstakingly studied the meta- 
bolic changes in isolated parts of the body. By the maintenance of arti- 
ficial circulation through "surviving" organs, completely severed from 
their normal relations, the life of the cells may be continued for many 
hours. Chemical examination of such tissues has thrown light on their 
metabolic processes ; under such conditions changes in the composition of 
the nutrients in the circulating medium point to the nutrient demands, 
the waste, or the specific elaborations of the cells. Furthermore, by the 
exclusion of individual organs, their normal activity may be inferred from 
the absence of certain functions. The metabolic work of the spleen, 
kidneys and thyroid has been studied by observations on individuals who 
have in whole or in part, been deprived of these organs through surgical 
intervention. Moreover, the changes in metabolism which go hand-in- 
hand with diverse pathological conditions of the body have also con- 
tributed to our understanding of the subject. 

285 



286 NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

It is readily understood that many difficulties beset the path of the 
investigator who studies the metabolism of individual organs, although 
the problems involved are of the greatest importance in physiology. Pro- 
fessor Lafayette B. Mendel, in discussing this question, says : 

The income (food and oxygen) and the outgo (excretions, urine and feces) 
have been determined with accuracy, under the most varied conditions, while the 
understanding of the intermediate processes is still largely a matter of "gaps and 
guesses." The body is constantly undergoing losses, which must be made good 
sooner or later. New material must be contributed to replace the wear and tear 
of the body. Certain losses may only be temporary, as in the secretion of milk, 
the production of eggs, the ejection of semen, and the menstrual flow, all of which, 
however, are relatively of little importance. The lungs give off carbon dioxid and 
water, the kidneys water, inorganic salts and nitrogenous compounds. The skin 
eliminates water and inorganic salts and traces of nitrogenous compounds, and 
with the feces there is excreted a residue of the digestive secretions, waste from 
the alimentary canal and indigestible particles of food. 

METABOLISM 

In the study of the intricate processes of digestion, assimilation and 
absorption, we traced the food through the digestive tract, and we come 
now to a consideration of those processes which are fundamentally im- 
portant ones — the fate of the foodstuffs in metabolism, all others being 
only means leading toward the end. During digestion, assimilation, res- 
piration and excretion, the food ingested undergoes many and various 
changes, breaking down into simpler compounds or undergoing transmu- 
tation into more complex substances. This change(l) of matter into 
potential and dynamic energy is termed metabolism. The body converts 
potential into kinetic energy by metabolism in the body. The potential 
energy of the aliment, through the processes of digestion, is transformed 
into the actual energy of heat and mechanical labor. There is no dif- 
ference in these changes between man and other vertebrates, though there 
may be slight variations in details ; the end products are the same. It is 
admitted that there may be slight differences in the nervous and intel- 
lectual processes, though at present this is "seen through a glass darkly." 

Anabolism and Catabolism — For the sake of clearness, these chemical 
changes are classified as follows : 

First, there are certain chemical processes in the animal economy 
where simpler substances are converted into more complex ones, which is 
constructive metabolism, i.e., the process of the assimilation of nutritive 
material from the alimentary canal and its conversion into the living 
substance. This process is called anabolism. An example of this upbuild- 



METABOLISM 2S7 

ing metabolic change is found in the first change which the fats undergo 
after saponification. This change has already been explained (in Vol- 
ume I, Chapter VII, The Physiology of Absorption, to which the reader 
is referred). In this anabolic change the fatty acids combine with 
glycerin to form molecules of neutral fat. The latter molecule contains 
three parts of fatty acid to one of glycerin, and is therefore much more 
complex than the molecules from which it is built up. 

Second, the complex food materials or tissue constituents are oxidized 
and broken down into simpler materials, and finally excreted. Preceding 
this oxidative change, the energy of the complex material is given up in 
the form of heat, motion, etc. The body is never stable ; while growth and 
nutrition progress, destruction or demolition constantly go on. This 
retrograde metabolism is called cataholism, and most of the chemical 
changes taking place in the animal body belong to this group. 

It is readily seen that analysis and synthesis play their part coinci- 
dently or successively in the variovis phases of the activity of the living 
substance; and when the effects of destructive or catabolic change are 
no longer offset by appropriate anabolic processes, the functions may be- 
come impaired or may cease altogether. It will be seen^ therefore, that 
the continuity of life depends upon perfect metabolism. Indeed, it is 
well said that "metabolism, in its entirety, is made up of a series of 
processes both catabolic and anabolic. In vegetable life the synthetic 
changes predominate, and highly complex compounds are built up, one 
might say, directly from the elements" (2). In animal life, on the other 
hand, cataholism prevails to a large extent, so that in these late years 
physiologists are accustomed to point out quantitative rather than quali- 
tative differences between animal and vegetable life. Foodstuffs, for 
instance, are ingested in the form of complex molecules of carbohydrate, 
fat and protein, and during the varied processes of digestion, absorption 
and assimilation undergo more or less complete combustion. Oxygen 
unites with carbon to form carbon dioxid and with hydrogen to form 
water; the nitrogen of the highly complex protein substances reappears 
in combination with carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, as urea, uric acid, 
hippuric acid, etc., and the sulphur and phosphorus of organic compounds 
are eliminated after oxidation to sulphuric acid. It is through these 
catabolic processes that the potential energy of the foodstuffs is ultimately 
transformed to maintain body temperature, nitrogen equilibrium, and 
furnish the necessary energy for the wear and tear of the body. In the 
cleavage of complex compounds to simpler ones, a portion of the potential 
energy of the ingested food, perhaps stored up temporarily in the form 



288 



KUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 



of glycogea or tissue fat, becomes kinetic. In some cases the combustion 
proceeds to the same end-products which rise by oxidation outside of the 
body, or, again, the compounds which are discharged by the elimination 
of the products of catabolic changes may be completely oxidized or even 
undergo subsequent synthesis, as is true of such substances as urea and 
hippuric acid. 

METABOLISM EXPERIMENTS 

Balance of Income and Outgo. — A balance sheet of the anabolic income 
and the catabolic outgo will graphically show the exact amount 
of matter and energy used daily in the body. According to Tib- 
bles(l), the income consists of (a) matter: food, drink and oxygen of 
the air; (6) energy: the potential energy of food and drink. The outgo 
consists of (a) matter: in the iirine, feces, perspiration and breath: (b) 
energy: the potential energy of urine, feces, products of perspiration and 
respiration. A scientific balance sheet of this process would graph- 
ically "show the amount of C, N, H, O, P, S, CI, K, Na, Mg, and Fe in 
the income and outgo, and it would also show the compounds in the ex- 
creta, including proteins, fats, carbohydrates, water and carbon dioxid." 

Many observers have worked over this problem. Two of the most 
explicit results are the following, given below. The first of Ranke(3), 
the second by Pettenkofer and Voit(4), as shown in the following tabu- 
lation from Tibbies (1) : 

EXCHANGE OF MATERIAL WITH STANDARD DIETS 



Income 


Expenditure 


Food 


Amount 

in 

Gms. 


Nitro- 
gen 
(Gms.) 


Carbon 
(Gms.) 


Excretions 


Nitro- 
gen 
(Gms.) 


Carbon 
(Gms.) 


Water 
(Gms.) 


Protein 


100 
100 
250 


15.5 


53.0 
79.0 
93.0 


Urine 

Feces 

Respiration 
(CO3) 

Total 


14.4 
1.1 


6.16 

10.84 

208.00 




Fat 




Carbohydrate 




Total 




15.5 


225.0 


15.5 


225.00 




Protein 


137] 
117 
352 J 
2016 


19.5 


315.5 


Urine 

Feces 

Respiration.... 

Total 


17.4 
2.1 


12.70 

14.50 

248.60 


1279 


Fat 


83 


Carbohydrate 

Water 


^ 828 






Total 




19.5 


315.5 


19.5 


275.80 


2190 



METABOLISM EXPERIMENTS 



289 



The researches and results of these men, now classical, have never 
been assailed ; but they are not so complete as the researches conducted by 
Atwater(5) and his coworkers. Few investigators have carried out their 
experiments with the completeness of those conducted by Atwater from 
1897 to 1907. Atwater and his colleagues selected for their observations 







Fig. 5. — General View op the Respiration Calorimeteb. 

A, Opening serving as door and window to chamber. B, Food aperture. C, Tank to 
catch water coming from the heat absorber in the chamber. D, Observer's table, with 
devices for measuring and regulating temperatures. Other temperature measuring and 
regulating apparatus pertaining to the calorimeter are not shown in this view. E, Thin 
rubber bag, resting on shelf, to serve as air-tension equalizer. F, Table on which are motor 
and blower for maintaining circulation of air through chamber, and absorbers for purifying 
the air. 



a man in normal health, with good digestion. A well-balanced palatable 
dietary was provided; it was well cooked, accurately sampled, and care- 
fully analyzed. The quantities of nitrogen and carbon were sufficient to 
maintain equilibrium during work or rest. Four days before the experi- 
ment was begun a preliminary digestion experiment was made to determine 
the requisite food for equilibrium maintenance. 



290 



NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 



H 



O 50 

«3 



o 
n 

< 



CO 

o 



o 



03 



+ I 

OS O 

Oh-; 






03 G, "^ 



id 

•s 



a 
•E 



1 






«0 CO O 00 

lO lO (N •^' 

I I I I 



I— I O 05 00 

^' (N d c> 

i-H (N (M .-H 

+ I + + 



00 rtj 00 —< 

00 r^ t>^ d 
(N (N (N (N 



O5 00 OtJ^ 

(N d ^ (H 



«q p t>. CV3 
d oicJ d 



CC »0 O 05 

lO -H lO Tt< 

(N (N (N (M 



<n" d cc 



CO(M (N 

dd(N 



OS 05 fS 00 

dddd 
I I I I 



lO Tt| t>. p 
00 ui »6 1>^ 



(M O <-i (N 



00 X3 «0 p 

00 lO d oo' 




OJ oco 



IC 1-H C^ 

OS d t>^ 



!>. i-H 05 ,— I 

(N TjH d 1-! 

(ro(N (N 

III I 



00 O Ci lO 

lO CC CO lO 

coecco (N 



«0 <N l>. (M 
(N 'H ^ cA 



d 



1-H t>.oq (N 
>o t>^ d r^' 

PO CC CO c^ 



CO o »c t^ 
(^■^(^i d 
+ 11 I 



CO prj; <N 

r>^ d d t>^ 






^3 r-H G, G 
..Q0«« >^ % 
*J «*S ,, i^ X 

Ji a> 5^ o K> 

•2 ^ ^ "^ o 

S<1 






'73 
03 



a> <a 
&£ bO 

a, 0) « 
> > ^ 



METABOLISM EXPERIMENTS 



291 



o 

O 

'>> 

o 

P5 

o 

o 
o 

H 

O 

O 



03 



Oi 



<D 



a. 

.^ O 



T3 



flip's 

<V ^ (V ■_^ 






\^ 



"t3 
-if o 

o3 O 



« 




K 


r/? 


pi 


H 




S5 


I? 


M 




151 


Q 




W 


f^ 


tf 


s 


tJ 


X 


<5 


w 








o 


H 


n 


<1 


< 


W 





g »0 i-t 05 i-t 

« CO f-I c5 o 
fe I I + I 

PL, 



-111 + 

o 



(M 05 <X! -— I 
t^ r^ CO ■<:t< 
(M (N '-H (N 



o -^ t^ -* 

00 O r-l -41 

(N_CO_^i-t^(N^ 



28: 



1— I O i— < CO 
■* 00 CO CO 
lO -^ CO CO 



„ CO t»> OJ 

tS o a> « t^ 

S Si ^ g ^ 

fl bC (L, tn 

S oj (U 0) CO 

t, f;f > > ^ 

>i<i .. .. ° 



• c» 



02 






05 

d 



CO (N 

c>d 



CO 1-H O CO 
CO 1—1 

I + I I 



o o r^ (N 

M TfH CO 00 

00 iC CO CO 



»0 05 t-» 00 
CO CO -^ 00 
00 lO CO CO 



O — I -^ CO 
r^ 05 00 (M 

co''oo"co'~im'' 



03 t» 

03 (N.S S 



: 00' 



<u 



^^ ° X s 
a o 0) "^ i^ 

a> Sr; > p o3 






:of^ 



o o 

b£ bO 












bo 

S 
u 

S 



0.01 "3 

•« « -. s 



p, OS 'd 

<D _, C 



o ;^ Q 






(N .s o 
I— 1 o 

. c (^ 



'^ bo 

"-I .5 



S-i O ^ ••!* 1^ 



!<<; 



3 o :S 
M > H 



" * o rt: si es 

w M > H a tf 



292 NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

During these preliminary digestion experiments the man was ordered 
to work and rest just as he was to do while in the respiratory calorimeter, 
shown in the accompanying illustration (6). 

The results of some of these calorimetric investigations are given in 
the following tables, a study of which will show that the body has con- 
siderable power of adjusting the expenditure of nitrogen to the income. 
The catabolized protein cannot be calculated as an exact measure of per- 
manent demands of the body, nor as a measure of the usual requirements 
of a man at work ; but experiments of this type show that the body re- 
quires a specific quantity of energy-producing foodstuffs for sustenance, 
and an additional amount to supply the demands for bodily wear and 
tear. 

According to Atwater, the results of a rest experiment during a period 
of 45 days were as follows: Net income, 2,255 calories; net expenditure, 
2,255 calories. During a period of light work lasting for 65 days, the 
net income amounted to 2,690 calories, the net expenditure to 2,628 calo- 
ries. During the 45 days of rest the elimination of energy was estimated 
to be: By the skin and lungs, 1,669; in the evaporation of water from 
the lungs, 550; in the urine and feces, 31 ; total, 2,250 calories. During 
a period of 20 days of work the heat eliminated by means of radiation 
and conduction from the skin and air in the lungs amount to 2,777 ; in 
the evaporation of water from the lungs, 1,126; in the urine and feces, 
19; ])v muscular work, 234; total, 3,656 calories. 

The Respiratory Quotient. — It has always been held that the energy 
expended by the body is measured by the quantity of carbon dioxid ex- 
creted. Parkes determined that during rest a man of 150 pounds ex- 
creted daily 15 cubic feet of carbon dioxid; that 1 cubic foot of gas re- 
sulting from combustion meant the expenditure of 160 foot-tons of energy, 
and 15 cubic feet 2,400 foot-tons of energy, the equivalent of about 1,560 
calories. He estimated the amount of carbon dioxid excreted hourly dur- 
ing a period of rest to be 0,62 cubic feet ; during a period of hard work, 
1.66 ; and during lal>oriou8 work, 2.75 cubic feet. Atwater and Benedict 
proved that carbon dioxid excretion varies with the condition. The aver- 
age daily amount during rest and fasting Avas 676 grams; during rest 
with food, 812 grams; during work with carbohydrate diet, 1,820 grams; 
during work with fat diet, 1,665 grams; and during work with mixed 
diet, 1,475 grams. Parkes estimated the daily expenditure of energy dur- 
ing rest to be 1,600 calories; during moderate work, 2,600; and during 
Tiard work, 3,200 calories. 

The significance of the respiratory quotient in metabolism has been 



METABOLISM EXPEEIMENTS 



293 



studied extensively by Zuntz(7) of Germany and Atwater(5) in this 
country. The respiratory quotient is the most delicate test of the car- 
bonaceous metabolism of the organism ; it is the ratio of the carbon dioxid 
exhaled to the oxygen consumed. Correct values for the gaseous inter- 
change and for the respiratory quotient can be obtained only when delicate 
technical precautions are observed — with the Atwater-Rosa calorimeter, 
or by Zuntz's method. Atwater at the beginning of each experiment 
directs (for a period of from three to ten minutes, varying with practice 
and with the capability of control on the part of the individual examined) 
that the ventilation is to be slightly increased, and as a result of the greater 
activity of the respiratory muscvilature, the consumption of oxygen is 
raised somewhat above the amount consumed during rest. Von Noorden 
says, "As a result of the forced respiration, too much carbonic acid is with- 
drawn from the bloody and so the respiratory quotient is found to be too 
high. Subsequent to the period of forced respiration, there follows for 
some minutes one of quieter respiration, during which there is a com- 
pensatory diminution in the carbon dioxid ovitput, below the amount that 
is formed, with the result that the respiratory quotient is too low. Only 
after these two periods are passed does the gaseous exchange become 
regular and the normal values for Oo, CO2, and the respiratory quotient 
can be determined." 

The respiratory quotient is affected by numerous other, frequently 
accidental, influences, apart from the purely mechanical ones associated 
with respiration, and so conclusions can be drawn only when the results 
obtained by numerous experiments are found to agree. 

The tabulation below from the experiments of Atwater and Benedict ^ 
shows : 

EFFECTS OF FOOD AND WORK ON RESPIRATION 



Conditions 


Heat 
measured 
(Calories) 


CO2 

exhaled 
(Liters) 


Oxygen 

consumed 

(Liters) 


Respiratory 
quotient 


Rest: Fasting 

" Ordinary mixed diet . . 
Moderate work : 

Fat diet 


2,197 

2,287 

3.570 
3,699 

5,128 
5,142 


342.2 
404.5 

613.9 
655.1 

856.6 
929.2 


473.6 
469.4 

737.5 
757.1 

1,058.9 
1,025.9 


.727 
.862 

.832 


Carbohydrate diet 

Hard work : 

Fat diet 


.865 
.809 


Carbohydrate diet 


.906 



1 Bull. 109, U. S. Dept. Agric. 
119 



294 NUTRITIOK AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

The respiratory quotient is calculated as follows : Divide the amount 
of carbon dioxid exhaled by the amount of oxygen consumed ; one liter 
of carbon dioxid weighs 1.9642 grams, and one liter of oxygen 1.42S6 
gTams, and the corresponding factors are 1 -^ 1.9642 = 0.5091, and 
1 -^ 1.4286 = 0.7. The amount of carbon dioxid exhaled by a man in 
one experiment lasting several days was 3,248.3 grams and oxygen con- 
sumed 2,755.3 grams. 

The values of the respiratory quotient, i.e., the proportion of the Og 
intake to the O2 output in the form of COg — 

Gram Oo in COo c.c. CO., 



'2 ^" '^'-'2 



Gram O2 c.c. Og 

on a fat and carbohydrate dietary can easily be calculated from the ele- 
mentary composition of these food principles. 
According to von Noorden(8) : 

In the case of these two foodstuffs, decomposition products of different ele- 
mentary composition, which would require to be taken into consideration, do not, 
as a rule, appear either in the urine or in the feces in appreciable quantities. It 
is quite different in the case of protein, where the amounts of C, H, 0, and S ap- 
pearing in the urine and feces must be deducted in order to ascertain the quan- 
tity of oxygen required for the formation of H.,0 and CO,,. As its amount varies 
in different experiments, and as the nature of the calculations differs not only for 
different proteins, but also as carried out by different authors, so the statements 
vary as to the amount of oxygen requisite for the combustion of the protein, and 
also as to the amount of CO, expired. For these reasons the respiratory quotient, 
as well as the physiological and physical heat values, vary in the case of a protein 
dietary. 

The amount of the respiratory quotient for the most common sub- 
stances, according to von Noorden, is as follows: 

Starch, etc 1 .00 , 

Fat 0.707 

Protein 0.809 

Alcohol 0.667 

"The calculated theoretical limiting values of the respiratory quotient, 
in the case of the exclusive combustion of the carbohydrates, or of fats, 
are usually not attained within the organism, since protein is invariably 
oxidized along with these bodies. If we take for the fasting state (the 
individual being in fair average condition) the proportion on the part of 
the protein in the total energy exchange of the organism as 15 per cent 



FACTOES WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 295 

of the latter, then the limiting values of the respiratory quotient, with a 
distribution of the energy exchange, are as follows: 

With 15 per cent (energy value) protein, 85 per cent (energy value) 

carbohydrate = 0.971 respiratory quotient, 
^ith 15 per cent (energy value) protein, 85 per cent (energy value) 
fat = . 722 respiratory quotient. 

"Under normal nutritive conditions these values neither rise above this 
level nor fall below it, provided that the oxidation of the foodstuffs to 
their end-products is complete, and that no intermediate products appear." 

If the experimental technic be correct, and the analysis accurate, the 
height of the respiratory quotient gives us an idea as to the nature of the 
matter which has undergone metabolism in the organism. The course of 
the respiratory quotient has thus given definite information as to the 
rapidity with which carbohydrate and other food materials introduced 
into the body have undergone metabolism (9). The respiratory quotient 
is always increased after a hearty meal. All foodstuffs rich in carbon 
augment the outgo of carbon dioxid. 

According to William Tibbles(l), "A strictly carbohydrate diet is 
possible only for short periods during which the respiratory quotient rises 
to unity or nearly so." A dietary consisting largely of fat lowers the 
respiratory quotient, but increases the expenditure of carbon dioxid, 
while, on the other hand, alcohol and the ethereal oils diminish the outgo 
of carbon dioxid. Again the respiratory quotient falls in the formation 
of sugar from protein, for which considerable oxygen intake is necessary 
without corresponding quantities of carbon dioxid being expired, if the 
glucose formed is either stored as glycogen or excreted in the urine. "Eest 
causes a fall in the respiratory quotient to about 0,7 or 0.8, but muscular 
activity causes an increase in the intake of oxygen and the output of 
carbon dioxid, especially the latter, and the respiratory quotient rises to 
0.8 to 0.9." 

FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 

According to Sherman (10) : 

The calorimetric method of studying total metabolism permits of experiments 
being carried out very quickly, and is therefore especially useful for the direct 
investigation of conditions which affect metabolism at once, e.g., muscular work^ 
work of digestion, etc. Moreover, the apparatus can be made portable and thus 
be carried by the subject like a knapsack in experiments on marching, mountain 
climbing, or bicycling. The observations cannot be made continuous, but the 
probable results for the 24 hours' metabolism can be estimated by the data ob- 
tained during frequent short periods at different times of the day and night. 



296 



:n^utrition and mineral metabolism 



Assuming that the total nitrogen and carbon of the absorbed food existed in 
the form of protein, fat and carbohydrates, and that the amount of carbohydrates 
in the body is constant from day to day, it is only necessary to determine the car- 
bon dioxid of the expired air and the carbon and nitrogen of the waste products 
in order to calculate the amounts of material oxidized and of energy liberated in 
the body. Experiments of this sort have played a most important part in the de- 
velopment of our knowledge of nutrition. The calculations are usually based on 
the following average analyses of protein and body fat: 



Carbon. . . 
Nitrogen. . 
Hydrogen 
Oxygen. . 
Sulphur. . 



Protein 



53 
16 

7 
23 

1 



100 



Fat 



76.5 

12 
11.5 



100 



The following table shows the income and outgo of nitrogen and car- 
bon and was obtained by Atwater in one of bis respiration experiments, 
from a man on ordinary mixed diet: 

CALCULATION OF ENERGY METABOLISM FROM CARBON AND 
NITROGEN BALANCE. MAN OF 64 KILOGRAMS AT REST 
IN ATWATER RESPIRATION APPARATUS 







Income 


: Grams per Day 






Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Nitrogen 


Carbon 


Total in food 


94.4 
5.4 


82.5 
3.7 


289.8 
3.2 


15.1 
0.9 


239.0 


Lost in digestion 


7.4 


Absorbed 


89.0 


78.8 


286.6 


14.2 


231.6 









Outgo 


By lungs 


16.2 


207.3 


By kidneys 


12.2 






Metabolized 


16.2 
-2.0 


219.5 


Balance 


-H12.1 







The above experiment shows a loss of 2 . grams of body nitrogen phis 
the factor x 6.25 equals 12.5 grams of body nitrogen consumed. The in- 
take of nitrogen was 89.0 grams from foodstuffs absorbed, and in all there 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 297 

were burned 101.5 grams of protein. The respiratory quotient in this 
experiment at the commencement of each experiment day was in equili- 
brium, therefore the conclusion is drawn that the amount of carbohydrate 
burned equaled the intake of 286.6 grams per day. Therefore, after mak- 
ing due allowance from this balance sheet of the carbon balance, Sher- 
man(lO) estimates the amount of fat burned was as follows: 

SHERMAN'S ESTIMATES OF ATWATER'S EXPERIMENT 

12.5 grams body protein yield (12.5 x 53 per cent) . . 6.6 grams carbon 

And there were in the absorbed food 231.6 " " 

.-. Total available was 238.2 « 

But total catabolized was only 219.5 " " 

The body stored in the form of fat 18.7 



fat, 



Since fat contains 76.5 per cent carbon, 1 gram carbon = 1.307 grams 
. • . 18.7 grams carbon = 24.4 grams fat. 

The body therefore absorbed 78.8 grams fat 

stored 24.4 " 

burned 54.4 " « 

In all, the body burned per day: 

101.5 grams protein, jdelding (101.5 x 4.35^) 442 calories 

54.4 « fat, « (54.4x9.450 515 

286.6 " carbohydrate, « (286.6 x 4.1 i) 1,175 



Total 2,132 calories 

Consumption of Food — Many suggestions have been advanced in 
explanation of the increased metabolism following the consumption of 
food. Mangus Levy (11), Zuntz and others think the increase due to 
intestinal and glandular work, that is, to the expenditure required for the 
enlarged demands upon the muscular system, and for the work of secre- 
tion carried out by the numerous glands present in the alimentary canal. 
Rubner(12) assumes, in addition to the glandular work proper, a specific 
action on metabolism is produced by the excess of protein. He holds that 
every foodstuff possesses a "specific dynamic" action. He also believes 
that the protein molecule is decomposed in all cases into a nitrogenous com- 
ponent and a non-nitrogenous component of a carbohydrate nature. 

Von l^oorden(8) recognizes a specific action of protein nutriment 
without adapting Rubner's explanation. He asserts that the increased oxi- 
dation occurring after the consumption of fats and carbohydrates, as well 
as that following the ingestion of protein, is due in the main to intestinal 
and glandular work. 

1 Here the factors for fuel value are not reduced to allow for loss in digestion, 
because this loss has already been deducted in computing the amount of each nutrient 
actually absorbed and rendered available. 



298 



nutritio:n" and mineral :^^ETABOLISM 



Fasting. — The effect of fasting on metabolism has been studied in 
great detail by Atwater and Benedict (13), who were able to determine 
by means of the respiration calorimeter the heat production of the same 
(control) man during five-day fasting experiments of one or two days 
each, and during a four-day experiment with food about sufficient for 
equilibrium maintenance. They found a total metabolism on fasting days 
to be 9 per cent lower than on the days when food was taken. Later, 
Benedict(14) found, after an extensive research, that if the fast was suf- 
ficiently prolonged, there would be a decrease in heat production. He 
conducted an experiment on a man during a seven days' fast, "while 
the man was living on his own flesh and fat," and found the loss to be : 
protein, 69.5; fat, 139.6; glycogen, 23 grams per day; total, 1,597 
calories. The protein loss equaled 347 grams of flesh ; the actual loss of 
energy measured by the calorimeter was 1.696 per diem, or 100 grams 
more than the estimated cost. The heat of combustion can be arrived at 
from the known caloric value of the substances ; for example, 1 gram of 
body protein yields 5.65 calories, and 1 gram of fat, 9.54 calories, and the 
total when fully oxidized in the human economy would aggregate 1.734 
calories. 

The Swedish investigator Tigerstedt made a careful study of the car- 
bon and nitrogen balance, the metabolism of a man who abstained from 
food for five days, following this period with a liberal diet for the next 
two weeks. The production of heat during the first two days of fasting 
could not be as definitely determined as in the last three days because of 
the loss of an nnkno^vn quantity of glycogen during the first days. 

The following data was obtained, which we take from Sherman and 
append below: 

METABOLIC CARBON AND NITROGEN BALANCE DURING FASTING 





Body weight 
icilos 


Calculated total 

metabolism, 

calories 


Calories 
per kilo 


First fast day 


67.0 
65.7 
64.9 
64.0 
63.1 
64.0 
65.6 


2220' 
2102' 
2024 
1992 
1970 
2437 
2410 


32.2» 


Second « " 


32.01 


Third " " 


31.2 


Fourth " " 


31.1 


Fifth " " 


31.2 


Fed 4141 calories 


38.1 


" 4141 " (second day).. 


36.8 



1 These fij^ures are slightly too high, because the loss of carbon on these days was 
due in part to combustion of glycogen, but is calculated as if duq simply to protein 
and fat. 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 299 

These tabulated results clearly show that during a period of fasting 
the metabolism remains fairly constant, notwithstanding the fact that 
energy is generated at the expense of the tissues. In this experiment 
4,141 calories of energy were produced by the food eaten — twice the 
amount that would have been necessary for mere maintenance. Conse- 
quently the work of digestion and assimilation was doubled. It appears 
then that as a result of fasting the entire metabolism of an individual 
at rest remains fairly constant, and the body possesses but little capacity 
for the adjustment of its energy metabolism to its food supply. 

Effect of Nitrogenous Diet on Metabolism. — The effect of nitrogenous 
diet on metabolism has been studied extensively by von Noorden(8), who 
holds that the most striking effect of a purely nitrogenous diet is a large 
increase in the nitrogenous metabolism, but at the same time it also 
increases the metabolism of the non-nitrogenous elements of the body. 

As the amount of protein ingested is increased, a rise in protein metab- 
olism is produced. This sequence occurs to such a degree that nitrogen 
equilibrium can generally be maintained on the most varied quantities 
of protein, which goes to prove that the body is not able to store up any 
excess of protein. At first glance, the fact that the body has the power to 
break down as much protein as is given to it would not appear to be in 
accordance with the law that the extent of protein metabolism is governed 
by the tissue requirements, not by the quantity that is offered to the cells. 
This law is absolutely true so far as the consumption of oxygen- and nitro^ 
gen-free substances is concerned. Usually when there is an increased 
consumption in protein, there is also a lessened consumption of other 
foodstuffs, so that with the increased proportion of protein there is a les- 
sened intake of other material. Thus the total energy metabolism is 
raised, to proportionately a small extent, only when nitrogen-free sub- 
stances are replaced simply by protein. Perhaps the difficulty of explana- 
tion might be made plainer if the hypothesis were found to be correct 
that the food protein is actually only in small part transformed into true 
protein within the body, or that it plays the part of protein within the 
organism only to a small extent. 

The statement that the body can consume all protein ingested within 
a period of twenty-four hours exceeds definite knowledge of the condi- 
tions. It is known that the nitrogen and sulphur are eliminated within 
this period. But whether the carbon that is eliminated during this period 
is derived from the protein or from other sources, and if from the latter, 
whether the carbon derived from the protein is stored up in any special 
form in the body — these are problems yet to be solved, 



300 NUTBITIO^ AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

According to von Noorden's reasoning it is probable that the former is 
correct, because, as a rule, bodies of small molecular weight, such as amino 
acids, etc., are completely burned up as soon as decomposition and oxida- 
tion have once commenced. 

In order to learn how the body attempts to adapt the combustion of 
protein to its intake, it is well to observe conditions in instances in which 
different amounts of protein are added to a dietary which is nearly enough 
for the requirements of the body. If the increase or decrease is not ex- 
treme, the nitrogen equilibrium of the organism will not be reestablished 
for several days. In the ordinary daily routine when the intake of food 
varies with the appetite and other influences, the intake and elimination 
of nitrogen often take place at very short intervals, and so in general, 
nitrogen equilibrium is kept up on a sufficient diet for long periods. In 
many instances, individuals during hot weather or when in tropical re- 
gions cannot take enough food to supply the needs of the body, and in 
consequence lose both protein and fat. Von Noorden(8) proved this to 
be true by experimenting upon himself. He determined that the main- 
tenance of weight was regulated by the fact that the amount of food in- 
gested as governed by the appetite meets on the whole the definite needs 
of the body. In prolonged experiments on man it has been found that 
nitrogenous metabolism is not by any means as uniformly maintained on 
an unvaried protein and caloric intake as is the case in experiments on 
dogs. Rosemann in one experiment found a daily variation of 10 grams 
of nitrogen. He points to temporary retention and subsequent washing 
out of the end-products of nitrogenous metabolism as accounting for these 
variations. But this explanation has not sufficient foundation. 

Atwater and Benedict (15) note the frequent occurrence of similar 
irregularities. In one of their experiments, variations in nitrogen elimi- 
nation on a constant diet were 17.2, 17.6, 14.2, 23.8, 20.3, 17.4, 17.2 and 
17.4 grams. Psychical conditions were cited as the cause of those varia- 
tions. The individual in question was so anxious about going into the 
respiration calorimeter chamber that the mental disturbance brought about 
a rise in protein metabolism. If, as sometimes happens on the last day 
of an experiment, protein metabolism is strongly influenced by certain 
external conditions, the result of the entire series is apt to be markedly 
affected. This result is naturally exaggerated in shorter series. 

Carbohydrates as Protein Sparers — Carbohydrates as protein sparers 
have of late received marked attention by research workers on metabolism. 
It has been observed that, where there is a deficiency of protein in the food 
supply, tibe metabolism of nitrogen will be spared and the tissues pro- 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 301 

tected if the food contains a liberal allowance of carbohydrate and fat. 
Lnsk(16) has fully investigated this subject, and found that, when the 
aliment contained an abundance of protein, fat and carbohydrate, the 
organism would gain a little nitrogen ; when the ration contained the same 
amount of protein, but no carbohydrate, the body lost nitrogen. On the 
other hand, when the ordinary dietary contained only a sufficiency of 
energy, but was of a low protein content, the excretion of nitrogen was 
normal. Lusk, therefore, concluded that carbohydrate acted as a sparer 
of protein. 

The protein-sparing action of carbohydrates is now well known (edi- 
torial, Jour. A. M. A., 1917), and they are by far more efficient protein- 
sparers than fats. "The starvation output of nitrogenous waste products, 
especially urea, can be materially lessened by the ingestion of either fats 
or carbohydrates, though the superiority of the latter non-nitrogenous 
foodstuffs in lessening nitrogen waste is always greater. If the carbo- 
hydrates are omitted from the dietary or even replaced by fats, the effect 
on the amount of nitrogen excreted is promptly perceptible. 

"Various theories have been proposed to explain this unique function 
of the carbohydrates in nutrition. One view has maintained that a certain 
concentration of blood sugar is always necessary for proper maintenance 
of physiological activities. This sugar can be produced from proteins if 
carbohydrates are not directly available, and since, in the absence of car- 
bohydrates, under physiologic conditions, fat cannot well supply this 
want, proteins are broken down to yield the sugar that is lacking. The 
result is an increase in the nitrogen output in carbohydrate starvation." 

Another view lately championed by Cathcart(l7), of Glasgow, and 
Janney(18), of 'New York, postulates that carbohydrate is essential to 
protein synthesis. "There is no doubt at present that sugar is not oxi- 
dized directly in the metabolism of the organism, but is rather dissociated 
in a definite way into simpler derivations, of which methyl glyoxal, 
CH.3CH.CHO, lactic acid, CH3CHOH.COOH, and pyruvic acid, 
CH3CO.COOH, are the most interesting possibilities. There is evi- 
dence that these compounds derived from sugars can in turn be converted 
into sugar in the diabetic individual. They may, accordingly, be con- 
cerned in the synthesis as well as the disintegration of the sugar molecule. 
But there is also some evidence now available, largely from perfusion 
experiments on surviving isolated organs, that both pyruvic and lactic 
acids can be converted into the amino-acid alanin ; that is, they can add 
nitrogen under conditions approximating physiologic possibilities." 

Kocher(19) has recently reminded us that, if this process of retaining 



302 NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

nitrogen by dissociation products of sugar to form new amino-acids, and 
hence proteins, occurs on a large scale in the body, it will explain why 
ingestion of carbohydrates spares body protein. To test this point, he has 
undertaken a comparison of the sparing effects of ingesting lactic and 
pyruvic acids in contrast with equivalent amounts of undissociated carbo- 
hydrates, like sucrose, on the nitrogen output. The outcome of these ex- 
periments, conducted at the George W. Hooper Foundation for ]\Iedical 
Research of the University of California (Jour. A. M. A., 1917), indi- 
cates that lactic acid exerts practically the same sparing action on protein 
metabolism as do carbohydrates. "The sparing action of pyruvic acid also 
is very distinct, but less marked than that following sugar. In view of 
what has already been mentioned regarding the possibility of adding am- 
monia to the structures of the sugar derivatives to form alanin, it is readily 
conceivable that, when this process is operative, nitrogen arising from the 
catabolism of body proteins, instead of being promptly excreted, is util- 
ized to synthetize new protein. This is not a new conception of metab- 
olism ; but Kocher's work gives added support to the possibility that the 
fixing of catabolized nitrogen by the dissociation products of glucose to 
form new proteins is the true mechanism of the sparing effects of feeding 
carbohydrates on the nitrogen output." 

Fat versus Carbohydrates as Protein Sparers — The subject of fats versus 
carbohydrates as protein sparers has been studied exclusively by Kayser 
and Landergren(20). They believe that fat quite as well as the carbo- 
hydrates protects protein not only in nitrogen hunger but in nitrogen 
abundance. According to Landergren, in certain instances, fat alone as 
compared with carbohydrates seemed to exert half the protective power 
of the latter as a protein sparer. This he attempted to substantiate on 
the ground of the demand of the body for carbohydrates ; and that when 
deprived of this food element, the glycogen formed in the tissues from 
protein is accepted as a substitute for combustion. The role of protein 
in this process cannot be taken by fat. It follows that as soon as the sup- 
ply of glycogen in the body is exhausted, fat has less protective power 
than carbohydrate as a protein sparer. 

Atwater(21) concluded from his experiments that the total available 
energy remaining uniform, protein protection by carbohydrates (largely 
cane sugar) is slightly superior to an isodynamic amount of fat; this fact 
may possibly be due to the "personal equation" of the control. 

Kayser (22), in a series of experiments, compared the efficiency of car- 
bohydrates and fats as sparers of protein by carefully determining the 
nitrogen balance and substituting the carbohydrates of the ration by an 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 



303 



amount of fat which would furnish the same fuel value in calories. The 
control who served as his subject for this experiment was a man 23 years 
old, of good physique, weighing 67 kilograms, with a small store of body 
fat. During the first and third periods of observation, his alimentation 
consisted of meat, rice, butter, eggs, sugar, oil, vinegar and salad. During 
the second period, his dietary consisted of meat, eggs, oil, vinegar and 
salad, all of the carbohydrates being practically withdrawn and replaced 
by fat. The two rations had practically the same fuel value and protein 
percentages. The results of this study are tabulated below : 

KAYSER'S TABLE SHOWING NITROGEN BALANCE WHEN FEEDING 
ISODYNAMIC QUANTITIES OF CARBOHYDRATE AND FAT 



Day 


Intake 


Output, 

Total 

Nitrogen 


Nitrogen 
Balance 


Total 
Nitrogen 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Fuel 

Value 


1 


Grams 
21.15 
21.15 
21.15 
21.31 
21.51 
21.55 
21.55 
21.10 
21.10 
21.10 


Grams 

71.1 

71.8 

71.8 

71.8 

221.1 

217.0 

215.5 

70.4 

70.4 

70.4 


Grams 
338.2 
338.2 
338.2 
338.2 






338.2 
338.2 
338.2 


Grams 
2590 
2596 
2596 
2600 
2607 
2570 
2556 
2581 
2581 
2581 


Grams 
18.66 
20.04 
20.59 
21.31 
23.28 
24.03 
26.53 
21.65 
19.20 
19.65 


Grams 
2.46 


2 


1.11 


3 

4 


0.56 
0.00 


5 


1.77 


6 

7 


2.48 
4.98 


8 


0.55 


9 


1.89 


10 


1.45 







On carefully examining this table it will be seen from the nitrogen 
balance of the first period that the amount of protein in the food was more 
abundant than was necessary; however, the nitrogen equilibrium was 
established on the fourth day. When fat was substituted for carbohy- 
drate, there was a marked increase in protein catabolism with correspond- 
ing loss of nitrogen from the body. On the other hand, the loss of nitrogen 
increased daily while the fat diet was continued, but, upon resuming 
the mixed diet, not only was the loss of protein stopped, but the body im- 
mediately began replacing the protein it had lost, although the nitrogen 
and the calories of the food remained practically the same. 

Kayser found that "the nitrogen intake remaining constant, the sub- 
stitution of isodynamic amounts of fat for all the carbohydrates of the 
diet resulted within three days in a total loss of 9.2 grams of nitrogen. 
The loss on the first day was 1.77 ; on the second day, 2.48 ; and on the 
third day, 4.98, while during the periods before and after, one gram of 



304 



NUTEITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 



nitrogen dailj^ was retained. Landergren, wlio holds that the variation 
between carbohydrates and fats as protein sparers is not dependent upon 
the difference in their physical and chemical properties, advances the 
foUov/ing explanation as a possible solution of the problem. If there 
are no disposable carbohydrates present, either in the food or in the 
storehouse of the body, then the organism must itself produce carbo- 
hydrate in order to satisfy its requirements. As, according to this investi- 
gator, a formation of sugar from protein may take place, but never one 
from fat (at least, under physiological conditions), then, in the absence 
of carbohydrate, a certain additional amount of protein must break down, 
in order to furnish the necessary carbohydrate requirements of the 
organism." This investigator finds the absolute daily carbohydrate re- 
quirement of the adult to be 40 to 50 grams. In his opinion, 30 to 40 
grams of protein will be sufficient to furnish this amount if no preformed 
carbohydrates are present. 

Atwater(23), in* one of his researches, compared the protein-sparing 
power of carbohydrate and fat in an experiment in which his subject was 
an athletic young man weighing 67 kilograms, who was accustomed to 
perform a considerable amount of work. The fifteen-day experiment was 
conducted in the respiration calorimeter, and the subsistence, rich in 
carbohydrates, was arranged in four periods which were alternated 
with four equal periods in which the diet was rich in fat. The change 
from carbohydrate to fat and vice versa involved about 2,000 calories or 
nearly half the fuel value of the diet. The average results per day for this 
experiment were tabulated as follows : 

SPARING POWER OF CARBOHYDRATES AND FAT IN CALORIMETRIC 
EXPERIMENTS (ATWATER) 



On Diet Rich in 
Carbohydrates 



On Diet Rich in 

Fat 



Available calories in food 

Heat equivalent of work performed, calories 
Nitrogen in food, grams 

« « feces, " 

" « urine, « 

" balance, " 



4532 

558 

17.5 

2.5 

16.6 

-1.6 



4524 

554 

17.1 

1.7 

18.1 

-2.7 



The difference here is in favor of the carbohydrate, but this is so small 
as to be of no practical significance. 

It appears that the carbohydrates of the dietary cannot be entirely 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 305 

replaced by an equal number of calories in the form of fat without jeop- 
ardizing the nitrogen balance. 

Gelatin as a Protein Sparer — Gelatin as a protein sparer has been 
studied extensively by Voit, Wilcock, Hopkins, Kauffmann, Kolpakcha 
and others. According to Voit (24), it would seem that the high nitrogen 
content of gelatin and the fact that it is soluble led to a tendency to 
attribute to it an unusual nutritive value. The fact, too, that gelatin could 
be obtained from bones, which otherwise were burned or thrown away, 
was important in suggesting it as a means for the economical feeding of 
the poor. The history of gelatin as a food is very interesting, and indeed 
instructive, since it serves as a warning against a premature application 
of the results of scientific investigation. 

A committee of the Paris Academy of Medicine investigated gelatin 
as a food and recommended it as a most nutritious and healthful foodstuff 
when its natural insipidity was corrected by the addition of salts and 
savory herbs. On the basis of this report, gelatin was generally used in 
the nourishment of hospital patients, but in the course of time, complaints 
were made and doubt raised as to its real food value. The true value of 
gelatin as a food, as we understand it to-day, was established by Voit's 
experiments, still it is evident that something remains to be explained. 
It is not clear why it cannot be better borne in a diet when used in larger 
quantities. Wilcock and Hopkins (25), after an extended study of this 
subject, conclude that the special protein-sparing properties of gelatin 
are due largely to the abundance of glycocoll in its composition, and aver 
that it shares with protein certain molecular groupings necessary to satisfy 
specific needs and is thus superior to fats and carbohydrate as a protein 
sparer. It lacks, on the other hand, certain necessary groupings, there- 
fore failing to supply all such needs, and thus cannot replace protein. It 
is a well-known fact that gelatin as a sole protein food does not suffice for 
the maintenance of nitrogen equilibrium. Recent study of protein chem- 
istry has shown that gelatin differs from most other proteins in yielding 
on hydrolysis no tyrosin nor tryptophan and little if any cystin. 

Kauffmann(26) personally experimented with a diet in which these 
three amino-acids were ingested along with gelatin to the exclusion of 
other protein, and found that nitrogen equilibrium was maintained 
throughout the entire five days' fast on this aliment. Von !N"oorden(8), 
after many qualitative analyses of gelatin, is certain that it contains much 
glycocoll and very little leucin and aromatic amino-acids. He believes the 
variable composition of gelatin is but one of the reasons why it is so ill 
adapted for the building up of protein. He arrives at this conclusion 



306 NUTKITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

after an experiment, and says a considerable quantity of gelatin in the 
food effects the economy from 20 to 30 per cent in the protein decomposi- 
tion of starvation, but quantities three or four times as great increase the 
economy to only 40 per cent instead of trebling or quadrupling it as 
might be expected. The loss of body protein cannot be prevented by add- 
ing much non-nitrogenous food to even the largest gelatin diets. A few 
years ago there was prevalent a popular idea that jelly was strengthening. 
Physicians concluded this to be erroneous and averred that jelly was of 
no use. Both were wrong. Gelatin undergoes catabolism, being 
changed into urea, and is a protector of protein, not by lessening the 
amount of material oxidized in the same way as carbohydrate and fat, 
but by being directly substituted for the nitrogenous elements of the body. 
The addition of gelatin to the dietary aids in establishing nitrogenous 
equilibrium on a smaller amount of protein than when gelatin is with- 
held, and even the consumption of fat is lessened by the allowance of 
gelatin in the aliment. This is all the plainer when we consider that 
gelatin in the process of catabolism is split into a urea moiety and a fatty 
moiety, like proteins. The important point in this connection is that 
gelatin, alone or with carbohydrates or fats, does not suffice to maintain 
the nitrogen equilibrium. It does not supply the nitrogenous material 
requisite for the repair of tissue. This deficiency is explained by the fact 
that in the composition of gelatin certain important amino-acids are lack- 
ing — tryptophan, tyrosin and cystin. 

Howell (27) states that "if a dog is fed upon a diet in which the nitrog- 
enous material is represented only by the split products of a gelatin 
hydrolysis, he will show a nitrogen loss. If the above named amino-acids 
are added, particularly the tryptophan, he will be maintained in nitrogen 
equilibrium. It is at present conceded that gelatin takes the place of 
stored or circulating protein, but not of tissue proteins, and therefore it 
will be seen that it does not serve the purpose of replacing the wear and 
tear of tissue." Nevertheless, gelatin is a more valuable foodstuff than it 
was formerly considered to be. 

Alcohol as a Protein Sparer — "Alcohol as a protein sparer has been the 
subject of much discussion among physiologists. It would be impossible 
to summarize the evidence on each side of the question here, but, in brief, 
the results of the latest and most trustworthy researches show that alcohol 
undoubtedly possesses a limited power in restricting nitrogenous waste." 
Alcohol is unquestionably a fat-sparer, though with greater difficulty is 
it able to spare carbohydrate. But while sparing fat, and sometimes 
carbohydrates, it is itself consumed — yielding heat and energy to the 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 307 

body. This was once a mooted point with physiologists, but there is no 
longer any doubt that alcohol is a food, but a very expensive food. Care- 
ful research has shown that the complete combustion of one gram of alco- 
hol in the body will yield 7 calories of heat energy; so that 131 grams of 
alcohol will yield as much fuel to the body as 100 grams of fat, which 
means that one ounce of alcohol is equal in energy or fuel value to one 
ounce of butter (80 per cent fat). While this statement is a recorded 
fact, we do not intend to convey the idea that we hold that alcohol is as 
good a source of energy in the diet as fat. Quite the contrary is tlie case, 
for, as we have already seen (see Volume I, Chapter XVI, page 578), by 
dilating the blood vessels alcohol may cause more heat dissipation than 
it is itself capable of producing. 

Besides, the energy which alcohol yields is very quickly dissipated, 
owing to tlie rapid oxidation of alcohol in the body, while fat produces 
energy in a slower and more equable fashion. 

Hutchison (28) thinks that larger doses of alcohol cause a general 
paralysis of cellular activity, so great that heat production is diminished 
and heat loss increased, with the final result of great lowering of the body 
temperature. If it be granted, for sake of argument, that alcohol is oxi- 
dized in the tissues with the liberation of energy, any value which it may 
possess in virtue of such metabolic action is seriously counterbalanced by 
its paralyzing and anesthetizing action on cellular activity. This causes 
the cells, for the time being, to lose their power of breaking down those 
compounds, such as fat, which it has, even under normal conditions of 
full activity, most difficulty in handling. Moreover, this dulling of the 
senses and inhibition of cellular activity is quite in accord with our present 
understanding of the effects of other cell poisons; and this knowledge 
should be accepted as Nature's warning, for, as experience has shown, 
the consumption of alcohol during muscular work augments rather than 
delays fatigue (29). 

Furthermore, a9 previously stated, it is believed that to a limited 
extent alcohol may lessen nitrogenous waste; however, its action in this 
respect is much less than that of carbohydrates, and less even than that of 
fats, and in addition there seems to exist some subtle influence of conditions 
not clearly understood, which depend, in certain instances (at least to some 
extent), upon personal peculiarities of the subject. 

Habit, also, undoubtedly is an important factor (30), as, with those 
who are accustomed to alcohol, the initial loss in nitrogen is less marked 
than in the case of total abstainers. In the case of fever patients who 
have been previously accustomed to the consumption of alcohol, even large 



308 



NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 



quantities do not give rise to nitrogen losses. Practically all physiologists 
agree that alcohol spares less protein than do carbohydrates when both are 
given in isodynamic quantities, but in practical therapeutics this is really 
of little importance. The physician does not desire to make use of the 
protein-sparing properties of alcohol, but instead he does endeavor by its 
use to spare the fat of the organism. 

In the experiments of Atwater and Benedict (31) it was found that 
the utilization of the difterent foodstuffs was not affected by the adminis- 
tration of alcohol, as shown in the following table : 

UTILIZATION OF DIFFERENT FOODSTUFFS WITH AND WITHOUT 

ALCOHOL 





Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrates 


Energy 


With alcohol 

Without alcohol . . . 


93.7 
92.6 


94.6 
94.6 


97.8 
97.9 


92.1 
9L8 



This tabulation shows the extent to which the food material was metab- 
olized when alcohol was administered. 

It has been held by some observers that the administration of alcohol 
exerted a favorable action in retarding tissue waste which accompanies 
prolonged pyrexia, but unless its metabolic action is very different in fever 
from its action under normal healthy conditions, and there seems to be 
little affirmative evidence, we are not justified in granting it any such 
favorable action. 

Einally, in summing up the influence of alcohol on metabolism, we 
are safe in concluding that it is burnt up in the body, sparing fat and car- 
bohydrates, and, to a very limited extent, it may spare protein, but the 
weight of evidence is against the conclusion that it exerts any important 
action tending to inhibit nitrogenous waste (32). 

Metabolism of Water — The metabolism of water in the human econ- 
omy has been worked over by many serious investigators. Bischoff, Foster 
and Hennenberg held that the "flushing" of the system with water 
hastened the breaking down of protein substances. Voit(24), in particu- 
lar, was the first to make any trustworthy experiments upon this question. 
He found that the rise in the excretion of nitrogen was 25 per cent, with 
an increase of the total urinary sulphur compounds from the tissues, and 
in any case it falls far short of the amount of the increase of the nitrogen 
excretion (33). 

Bidder, >Schmidt, Murck and Meyer(34), on the other hand, believe 
that the urinary nitrogen increases because the tissues are more thor- 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 



309 



oughly flushed or washed out and thereby lose their nitrogenous end- 
products. 

The human body consists of 630 parts per 1,000 of water, and it is of 
the greatest importance as a component of the tissues to assist in the 
exchange of nutritive substances, the discharge of the products of metab- 
olism, the regulation of temperature and other vital functions. If the 
supply of water be cut off, the body will die, and it will succumb sooner 
from deprivation of water than by starvation. A restriction of the water 
supply consumed hastens the decomposition of protein and fat to replace 
the water essential for the body functions. 

Atwater and Benedict, as a result of a 49-day experiment with a 
control in repose, showed that the' average income of water was 2,290 c.c. 
and the excretion 3,700 c.c, so that at the lowest estimate about 250 c.c. 
of water was formed in the tissues by the oxidation of hydrogen in the 
food, while in the tissues and during ordinary work they found that from 
510 c.c. to 540 c.c. of water was excreted daily in excess of the amount 
consumed in the food and drink. The amount of water ingested with 
food and drink varies according to position, life, habits and environments 
of the individual, but the above figures give a fair idea of the amounts of 
water taken with a mixed diet under comfortable circumstances (17). 

Von E^oorden holds that, in addition to the fluid drunk, the body has 
at its disposal the "oxidation water," resulting from the combustion of 
the hydrogen of the food. The amount of this varies but little, depending 
less upon the nature of the food oxidized than upon its quantity, in 
other words, upon the absolute extent of metabolism. 

The following table graphically emphasizes this point : 



'OXIDATION WATER" RESULTING FROM THE COMBUSTION OF 
HYDROGEN IN THE FOOD 



Foods 


Contains 
grams H 


Contains 
grams H2O 


Yields 
calories 


100 calories 
yields grams H2O 


100 grams fat 


11.9 
6.78 
4.59 

13.4 


107.1 
55.5 
41.3 

117.4 


9,461 

4,181 
4,442 
6,981 


11.31 

13.3 ni.3 

9.3 J 
16.6 


100 " starch 

100 " protein 

100 « alcohol 



A careful study of the above tabulation shows that, for each 100 
calories developed, the ternary food elements produce approximately the 
same amounts of water, 11.3 grams. On a mixed dietary, where fifty 
per cent of the potential energy is derived from the carbohydrates and 

120 



310 



NUTKITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 



one-sixth from the protein, and the remaining from the fat, each 100 
calories correspond to about 12 grams of water, so that we have: 
2,000 2,500 3,000 



From. . . 
About. . . 



240 



300 



360 



4,000 calories 
420 "oxidation" water 



The approximate figures from von Noorden, just given, agree fairly 
well with the quantities determined experimentally by Voit, which were 
as follows: 

During starvation 32 gm. H equals 288 H2O, with an exchange of about 

2,300 calories. 
With average diet and lightl40 gm. H. equals 360 H2O, with an exchange of about 

work I 2,600 to 2,800 calories. 

With hard work 52 gm. H. equals 468 H2O, with an exchange of about 

3,600 calories. 

Atwater and Benedict (35) observed that: 

During rest 30 gm. H equals 270 H2O, with an exchange of about 

2,209 calories. 
During hard work 50 gm. H equals 451 H2O, with an exchange of about 

3,630 calories. 

Neumann (36) conducted an ideal experiment upon himself, subsist- 
ing upon a regular and constant dietary, the chief results of which are 
tabulated below: 

NEUMANN'S DIETARY EXPERIMENT 





H=Oin 
drinks 


Nitrogen Balance 


Total 
for 




Day 




1st 


2nd 


3rd 


4th 


5th 


6th 


7th 


8th 


9th 


Entire 
Period 


1 


970 
3,000-3,900 

600- 900 
3,100-3,700 

700-1,700 


+0.42 

-3.8 

+3.35 

-3.16 

+2.91 


+0.19 

-2.4 

+1.92 

-1.51 

+0.72 


+0.16 

-0.1 

+0.78 

+0.59 

+0.42 


-0.06 












+0.4 


? 












-6.3 


3 














+6.1 


4 
5 


+0.51 
+0.88 


-0.23 


+0.19 


+0.59 


+1.0 


+1.23 


-0.89 
4.9 

















In studying this table it will be seen that his consumption of water 
increased from 970 c.c; the first day of first period to 3,900 c.c. the last 
day of the second period and 3,700 c.c. the last day of the fourth period. 

The urinary nitrogen was increased during only the first two days. 
On and after the fourth day he remained in nitrogenous equilibrium, 
although he continued to drink abnormally large quantities of water. Dur- 
ing this experiment Neumann was punctiliously careful as to details and 
noted when he returned to the small consumption of water, as in the third 
period, or after he had flushed out his system for a long period, as in the 
fourth period, that his initial loss of nitrogen was fully compensated by 
the retention of corresponding amounts of nitrogenous substances. 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 311 

Von Noorden, in commenting upon this experiment, emphasizes the 
facts as tabulated, and says : "For the adult healthy man the question has 
been answered once for all." It will be seen, therefore, that "flushing 
out" the system removes the end-products of nitrogenous metabolism with- 
out any abnormal breaking up of protein. 

In summing up the results of Neumann's experiment, von Noorden 
concludes as follows : 

The amount first washed out and then retained was about six grams of nitro- 
gen. One might be tempted to regard this quantity as the maximum "excess of 
extractives loosely retained in the system," and to base other calculations upon it 
as such in other investigations of the metabolism. Were this justifiable, one would 
be able to set down any further excess of nitrogen lost with some certainty to the 
decomposition of protein. But this view is not justifiable, since such consumption 
of water produces no more than a mechanical flushing of the tissues. Under dif- 
ferent circumstances, it is quite possible that perhaps amounts of extractives 
might leave the tissues; yet it is most important that conclusions drawn from the 
action of the healthy body should not be applied to diseased tissues. And there is 
one thing that these experiments bring out very clearly, and that is the tenacity 
with which the organism holds on to its extractives. With but few exceptions, 
these bodies should not be regarded as the valueless decomposition products des- 
tined for excretion only. They must rather have definite functions — of which we 
know nothing for the most part — to perform in the economy of the body. 

Metabolism of Mineral Substances. — The metabolism of mineral sub- 
stances, from a strictly chemical viewpoint, is of small moment, since 
they undergo only minor chemical changes, and play even a less important 
role in the transformation of energy ; they are not sources of energy and 
it is questionable even if they have any part in its development. Indeed, 
their exact significance in the organism is only partially understood, but at 
the same time it is a well-known physiological fact that life cannot be sup- 
ported on foods deficient in inorganic salts. Beyond question they serve 
most important functions in maintaining a normal composition and 
osmotic pressure in the fluids of the body, and, by virtue of their osmotic 
pressure, they play an important part in the ingress and egress of water 
to and from the tissues. Besides, the inorganic salts constitute an essen- 
tial part of the composition of all living matter. 

Howell says: 

In some way they are bound up in the structure of the living molecule and are 
necessary to its normal reactions or irritability. Even the proteins of the body 
liquids contain definite amounts of ash, and if this ash is removed, their properties 
are seriously altered, as is shown by the fact that ash-free native proteins lose 
their property of coagulation by heat. The globulins are precipitated from their 



312 



NUTRITIO:^^ AND MINERAL METABOLISM 



solutions when the salts are removed. The special importance of the calcium salts 
in the coagulation of blood and the curdling of milk has been referred to, as also 
the peculiar part played by the calcium, potassium and sodium salts in the 
rhythmical contractions of heart muscle, the irritabihty of muscular and nervous 
tissues, and the permeability of the capillary wall and other membranes. The spe- 
cial importance of the iron salts for the production of hemoglobin is also evident 
without comment. There can be no doubt, in fact, that each one of the salts of 
the body has a special nutritive value and a special metabolic history. The time 
will doubtless come when the special importance of the potassium, sodium, cal- 
cium and magnesium will be understood as well, at least, as we now understand the 
significance of iron, and quite possibly this knowledge will find a direct therapeutic 
application, as in the case of iron. 

In the human body the mineral salts exist partly in combination 
with organic substances and partly in solution in the body fluids. In- 
organic substances, when burned with access of air, set free the mineral 
substances which exist therein; likewise, when foodstuffs containing the 
inorganic salts are metabolized in the body, they are (with the exception 
of iron) given off chiefly in the form of mineral matter. These elements 
and their compounds are therefore usually referred to as ash constituents, 
and their metabolism as mineral metabolism. 

The table given below shows tlie most important of the inorganic 
salts and the percentage found in bone, muscle and the various organs of 
the body. The inorganic salts found in the body are either eliminated 
from the body by the urine and other excretions, or they may be retained 
and recombined with freshly absorbed organic substances from the ali- 
mentary canal. 

THE PERCENTAGE OF ASH IN BONES, MUSCLES, AND VARIOUS 

ORGANS 





si 




Liver 
(Oidt- 
mann) 


Spleen 
(Oidt- 
mann) 


Is 

mm 


m£ 


Lymph 
(Dahn- 
hardt) 


Milk 
(Wilder- 
stein) 


Sodium chlorid . . 
Potassium chlorid 
Soda 




10.59 

" 2.35 

34.40 

1.99 

1.45 

48!l3 
' ' .81 


14.53 

25.23 

3.61 

.20 

2.74 

2.58 

5b! 18 
.92 

"!27 


44.33 
9.60 

7.48 
.49 

7.28 
.54 

27! lb 

2.54 
' ' !l7 


4.74 

ib!69 

34.42 

.72 

1.23 

5b!l8 
.92 

"!27 


58.81 

'4! 15 

11.97 

1.76 

1.12 

8.37 

ib!23 

1.67 
1.19 


74.48 

ib!35 

3.25 

.97 

.26 

.05 

'i!b9 
■8!2b 

.42 


10.73 
26.33 


Potash 




21.44 


Lime 


37.58 
1.22 

"i!66 
53.31 

'5!47 


18.78 


Magnesia 

Ferric oxid 

Chlorin 

Fluorin 


.87 
.10 


Phosphoric acid. . 
Sulphuric acid . . . 
Carbonic acid — 
Silicic acid 


19.00 
2.64 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 313 

Von N^oorden says : 

Extract experiments have proven, once for all, the indispensable importance of 
the inorganic salts to the organism, and the amounts in which they are required 
during growth has been repeatedly investigated, while only a few serviceable de- 
terminations have been made upon the adult. 

It is known that the body takes up the organic foodstuffs to supply 
it with energy, in response to a definite demand. The inorganic material 
in the food is on a different plane ; like water, it is absorbed in excess, or, 
more phiinly speaking, in quantities far surpassing the normal physio- 
logical minimum. The requisite amount of the daily decomposition under 
definite conditions of life and nutrition, calculated on the basis of the 
urinary salts, is stated by von Noorden(l7) in the following approximate 
figures : 

Gram Gram 

CI 6-8 NasO 4-6 

P.Os 2-3.5 FesOs Traces 

SO3 2-3.5 CaO 0.15-0.35 

K2O 2-3 MgO 0.2-0.3 

The physiological minimum intake of inorganic matter has not been 
..extensively investigated. Indeed, its determination is beset with diffi- 
culties, since the same differences obtain as in the case of the demand for 
protein and water, and these depend upon individuality, personal idio- 
syncrasies and upon variations of the organic constituents of the dietary. 
It is difficult, therefore, to arrive at a "physiological optimum." This 
much is certain, a marked decrease in the amount of mineral salts must 
take place before any impairment of mineral metabolism is noticeable. 
At any rate, no scientific proof of its importance is available, and beyond 
question there is an absence of accurate information of the physiological 
conditions involved. 

From the foregoing discussion of mineral metabolism, we learn that 
the salts of the body are partly bound up with inorganic substances and 
partly in solution in the body fluids, and are considered as ash. The 
prevalent custom of speaking of ash as a food is incorrect; properly 
speaking, ash is the term applied to the residue remaining after the incin- 
eration of food products in the air at a low temperature, until the carbon 
has disappeared. Ash is rather an indefinite term and is applied to that 
residual material of a mineral nature composed of sand or silica and the 
carbonate* or oxids of alkalies or alkaline earths. The ash contains the 
principal percentage of phosphorus present in food products along with a 
small portion of sulphur. These bodies exist as phosphoric and sulphuric 



314 



miTKITlON AND MINERAL ^^lETABOLISM 



acids or their salts. Elements so closely related to chemical properties 
as sodium, potassium or calcium and magnesium are not only not inter- 
changeable, but in some of their functions are diametrically opposed. 
Calcium seems to bear a special affinity for, and to exert a favorable 
influence upon, the efficacy of iron in body metabolism, since it appears 
to be possible to maintain iron equilibrium upon a smaller amount of this 
latter element when the ingested food contains an abundance of the 
calcium salts. 

The relative quantities of water, organic matter and inorganic residue 
(ash) in some of the tissues and body fluids is shown in the following 
table : 

TABLE SHOWING PERCENTAGE OF WATER, ORGANIC MATTER AND 

INORGANIC RESIDUE (ASH) PRESENT IN CERTAIN TISSUES 

AND BODY FLUIDS 





Water 


Organic and 
volatile matter 


Inorganic resi- 
due (ash) 


Blood corpuscles 


54.60 
90.50 
95.70 
22.10 
10.00 
0.40 
79.50 
86.80 
87.00 
91.80 
91.80 
85.92 
90.97 
99.43 
99.50 


44.68 

8.68 

3.00 

26.00 

25.00 

3.60 

19.75 

12.85 

12.20 

7.40 

7.40 

13.30 

8.18 

0.33 

0.32 


0.72 


Blood serum 


0.82 


Urine 


1.30 . 


Bone 


52.00 


Dentine 


65.00 


Enamel 


96.00 


Blood 


0.80 


Human milk 


0.35 


Pus 


0.80 


Ljonph 


0.80 


Chyle 


0.80 


Bile 


0.78 


Pancreatic juice 


0.85 


Gastric juice 


0.24 


Saliva 


0.18 







Acid-forming and Base-forming Elements — The acid-iorm'mg and hase- 
forming elements of the aliment are interesting from a clinical point of 
view. For example, a dietary of proteins, fats and carbohydrates which 
has been demineralized and leaves no ash residue after incineration, will 
introduce no fixed bases jn the body, but, on the other hand, will introduce 
sulphuric acid from the metabolism of sulphur contained in the ingested 
protein. Such a dietary would be "acid-forming." 

Doctor Taylor (37), of the University of California, subsisted for a 
period of nine days upon a practically ash-free aliment made up of 70-75 
grams of purified egg albumin, 120 grams of washed olive oil, and 200 
grams of cane sugar. He describes his symptoms as essentially those of 



FACTORS WHICH AFFECT METABOLISM 315 

acidosis, similar to that produced from the want of base-forming elements 
in the diet. Later Goodall and Joslin(38) carried out experiments 
similar to Taylor's without obtaining confirmatory evidence, which would 
suggest considerable differences between persons in reference to suscepti- 
bility of the acids elaborated in the metabolic processes. 

Deprivation of the organic acids leads to a peculiar disturbance of the 
system resulting in the development of scurvy. Of the inorganic salts 
sulphur is essential to growth. The chlorids keep the globulins in solu- 
tion, and are the source of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice. The 
phosphates are essential for the growth of bone and to the nervous system. 
Deficiency of calcium and magnesium leads to rickets and other abnormal 
conditions. 

Gout has been termed the disease of luxury. On the other hand, 
scurvy is the disease of privation or penury. Funk and other writers hold 
that scurvy is a deficiency disease due to lack of vitamines in the food- 
stuffs. Gautier held that the class of vegetables containing a liberal 
amount of alkaline ash acts as an antiscorbutic. 

Sherman (39) avers that: 

If susceptibility to scurvy and the injurious results from an ash-free diet are 
even partly due to the disturbances of the balance of acid-forming and base-form- 
ing elements in the food, it would seem to follow that the normal dietary should 
be so chosen as to furnish the body enough base-forming elements to neutralize 
the mineral acids produced in metabolism. 

This author determines the balance of acid-forming and base-forming 
elements in foodstuffs by ascertaining the presence of chlorin, sulphur, 
phosphorus, sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium, computing the 
equivalent in acid of the first three elements, the equivalent in alkali of 
the last four, then determining the excess of acid or base, as the case may 
be, which would result from the complete oxidation in the blood. He holds 
that : 

While in actual metabolism all of the sulphur of the food is not oxidized to 
sulphate and the ammonia is not quite all converted into urea, yet the method is 
fairly satisfactory as a means of comparing foodstuffs in respect to their metabolic 
acid-forming and base-forming properties. 

For tables graphically showing the relative preponderance of acid- 
forming and base-forming elements in some typical foodstuffs, as worked 
out by Sherman, consult the following (Volume II, Chapter XI, page 357). 

From a study of these tables, it will be learned that lean beef and 
round steak, bacon and ham possess a high percentage of acid-forming 
elements. It will also be seen that the cereal grains show a slight prepor- 

122 



316 NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

derauce of the acid-forming elements. While, in the second table, it will 
be seen that milk, fruits and vegetables show an excess of base-forming 
elements. 

The blood is physiologically and chemically an alkaline medium and 
upon its alkalinity depends its power of transporting carbonic acid, and 
upon this fact as well depends the power of the blood to take up, at certain 
times, organic acids without itself becoming acid. When large doses of 
alkalies are administered, the economy at once begins preparing for their 
excretion, so that a short while after absorption only a small portion can 
be found present in the organism. 

Just how alkali is retained in the blood, how much of it at any stated 
period is present in the blood and lymph, what quantities pass into the 
different tissues and various organs, is not definitely known. And yet 
an accurate understanding of this interesting phenomenon would be of 
great practical significance for the scientific medical man. The great 
variation in the alkalinity of the tissues, though often challenged by thera- 
peutics, is at present an admitted fact Still their percentage and extent 
are as yet "seen through a glass darkly." 

A dietary in which the acid-forming elements are present in excess 
calls for a withdrawal of the fixed alkalies from the tissues and circulating 
fluid on the one hand, or, on the other, for an increase of ammonia salts 
in the body, neither of which is desirable. Carnivorous animals habitually 
ingest foods with an excess of acid-forming elements without harmful 
effects, and while in man it might not be dangerous, yet it must put an 
extra tax upon a constitution accustomed to a mixed dietary which might 
better be avoided, especially, as Sherman thinks : 

"We have no reason to anticipate any disadvantages from a preponderance of 
base-forming elements, which, if not used to neutralize stronger acids, would take 
the form of bicarbonates and thus aid in the maintenance of the normal and neces- 
sary neutrality or faint alkalescence of the blood and tissues. It would be a good 
practice, therefore, when formulating a dietary in which the foods contain acid- 
fonning elements, to be fairly well balanced by other foods in which the base-form- 
ing elements predominate, so that the diet as a whole may yield sufficient fixed 
bases to neutralize any excess of mineral acids evolved during the processes of 
metabolism. 

If all the available information could be collected, with the opinions 
of critics added thereto, it would make a volume in itself. Therefore, we 
present only a brief prologue to mineral metabolism and the reader is 
referred to the succeeding chapter for value uses and sitology of the 
inorganic salts. 



KEFERENCES 317 



REFERENCES 

1. TiBBLES, W11.LIAM. Food in Health and Disease. 

2. Hall, W. S. Nntrition and Dietetics. 

3. Ranke. Einwirk. des Tropen klimas auf die Ernalirung des 

Menschen, 1900. 

4. Pettenkofer and Voit. Respirations Versuclie am Hungernden 

Pflanzenfresser. 

5. Atwater. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. No. 109, pp. 126-127. 

6. and Rosa. U. S. Dept. of Agric., 1899, Bull. 63. 

7. ZuNTZ. Nahrungszufuhrtierische Oxydations-prozesse, Arch. f. d. 

ges. Physiol., vol. xv, p. 634. 

8. VON Noorden. Metabolism and Practical Medicine, Physiology. 

9. Benedict. For description of a new form of apparatus for study- 

ing respiratory exchange. See Am. J. Physiol., 1909, vol. xxiv, 
p. 545. 

10. Sherman, Henry C. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, pub. by 

Macmillan Co., 1914. 

11. Levy, Mangus. Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol. 

12. RuBNER. Die Gesetze des Energieverbrauches bei der Ernahrung, 

1902. 

13. Atwater, Benedict, et al. Respiration Calorimeter Experiments, 

Office of Exper. Sta., U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. Nos. 44, 63, 
69, 109, 136, 175. 

14. Benedict. The influence of Inanition on Metabolism, Pub. No. 77, 

Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1907. 

15. Atwater and Benedict. The Nutritive Value of Alcohol, Memoirs 

Nat. Acad, of Sciences, 1902, p. 394. 

16. LusK. The Science of Nutrition. 

17. VON NooRDEN. Loc. cit., 6th ed., 1912, p. 121. 

18. Janney, N. W. J. Biol. Chem., 1916, vol. xxiv, p. 30. 

19. KocHER, R. A. The Mechanism of the Sparing Action of Carbo- 

hydrates on Protein Metabolism, J. Biol. Chem., 1916, vol. xxv, 
p. 571. 

20. Kaysee and Landergren. Skand. Arch. Physiol., 1903, p. 112. 

21. Atwater. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. No. 136, p. 197. 

22. Kayser. Einfl. von Fett und Kohlenhydrat, 1902. 

23. Atwater and Benedict. Metabolism of Matter and Energy, U. S. 

Dept. of Agric, Bull. No. 176, p. 136. 



31S NUTRITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

24. VoiT. Herman's Handbuch der Physiologic, vol. vi, p. 396. 

25. WiLLCocK and Hopkins. J. Physiol. 

26. Kauffmann. Tigerstedt's Physiology, p. 109. 

27. Howell. Text-book of Physiology. 

28. Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

29. Destkee. Quart. J. Inebr., Jan., 1899. 

30. ScHNYDEK. Piiuger's Archiv., 1903, vol. xciii, p. 451. 

31. Atwater and Benedict. An Experimental Inquiry Regarding the 

Nutritive Action of Alcohol, Nat Acad, of Sci., 1902, vol. viii. 
Memoir 6. 
GoDDABD. Lancet, Oct. 22, 1904. 

32. Antsie. Practitioner, 1874, vol. xiii, p. 15. 
Atwater and Benedict. Loc. cit. 

33. TsTJBAi. Zeitschr. f. Biol., 1904, vol. xliv, p. 377. 

34. Bidder and Schmidt. Die Verdauungssafte und der Stoffwechsel, 

1852. 

35. Atwater and Benedict. Experiments on Metabolism, U. S. Dept. 

of Agric, 1903, Bull. No. 136. 

36. Neumann, R. O. Der Einfluss grosserer Wassermengen auf die 

Nieren-Austeichung, Arch. f. Heilkunde, 1899, vol. xxxvi, p 248. 

37. Taylor. Pub. in Pathol. Univ. Cal., vol. i. No. 7, pp. 71-86. 

38. GooDALL and Joslin. Trans. Assn. Am. Phys., 1908, 23-92-196. 

39. Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Abderhalden. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry. 
Armsby. Principles of Animal Nutrition, chap, vii to x. 

. Ihid., chap, vi and xi. 

. Ihid. 

Atwater. Methods and Results of Investigations on the Chemistry and 

Economy of Food, Office of Exper. Sta., U. S. Dept. of Agric, 

1895, Bull. No. 21; Neue Versuche ueber Stoff- und Kraft- 

wechsel, Ergeb. d. Physiol., 1904, p. 3. 
Atwater and Benedict. A Respiration Calorimeter with Appliances 

for the Direct Determination of Oxygen, Pub. No. 42, Carnegie 

Instit. of Washington, 1905. 
, et al. Respiration Calorimeter Experiments, Office of Exper. 

Sta., U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. Nos. 44, 63, 69, 109, 136, 175. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 319 

. Comparison of Fats and Carbohydrates as Protectors of Body 

Material, Office of Exper. Sta., U. 8. Dept. of Agric, Bull. 136, 
pp. 176-187. 

Benedict and Carpenter. The Metabolism and Energy Transforma- 
tions of Healthy Man During Rest, Pub. 'No. 126, Carnegie 
Instit. of Washington, 1010. 

. The Influence of Muscular and Mental Work on Metabolism 

and the Efficiency of the Human Body, as a Machine, Office of 
Exper. Sta., U. S. Dept. of Agric, 1909, Bull. No. 208. 

BuNGE. Physiological and Pathological Chemistry, chaps, vii and viii. 

Chittenden. The Nutrition of Man, chaps, i and ii. 

Fisher. A New Method for Indicating Food Values, Am. J. Physiol., 
vol. XV, p. 417. 

FoLiN. A Theory of Protein Metabolism, Am. J. Physiol., vol. xiii, pp. 
117-138. 

. A Theory of Protein Metabolism, Am. J. Physiol., vol. xiii, 

pp. 117-138. 

Forbes. The Balance between Organic Acids and Bases in Animal Nu- 
trition, Ohio Exper. Sta., 1909, Bull. No. 213. 

Hammarsten. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry. 

Hart, McCollum and Fuller. The Role of Inorganic Phosphorus in 
the Nutrition of Animal Research, Wisconsin Exper. Sta., 1, 
1909, Bull. No. 1. 

Henderson. Das Gleichgewicht zwischen Basen und Sauren im Their- 
ischen Organismus, Ergebn. d. Physiol., 1909, vol. viii, pp. 254- 
325. 

Hill. Recent Advances in Physiology and Biochemistry, chaps, xi and xii. 

. Ibid., chaps, viii, ix, x, xv. 

Howell. Text-book of Physiology, chaps, xlvii and xlviii. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics, chaps, ii and iii. 

Jordan, Hart and Patton. Metabolism and Physiological Effects of 
Phosphorus Compounds of Wheat Bran, Technical Bull., No. 1, 
New York Exper. Sta. and Am. J. Physiol., 1906, vol. xvi, p. 24. 

LusK. Elements of the Science of Nutrition. 

. Ibid., 3rd ed., 1909, pp. 17-45. 

. The Fate of the Amino Acids in the Organism, J. Am. Chem. 

Soc, 1910, vol. xxxii, pp. 671-680. 

Osborne. Sulphur in Protein, TJ. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. 227. 

Paton. On "Folin's Theory of Protein Metabolism," J. Physiol., 1905, 
vol. xxxiii, p. 1. 



320 NUTEITION AND MINERAL METABOLISM 

Sherman and Sinclair. The Balance of Acid-forming and Base-foi*ming 
Elements in Food, J. Biol. Chem., 1907, vol. iii, p. 307. 

VON NooRDEN. Mctabolism and Practical Medicine, vol. i, pp. 185-207. 

. Ihid., vol. i, pp. 208-282. 

. Metabolism and Practical Medicine, vol. i, pp. 64-127, 

153, 168. 

WiLLCocK and Hopkins. The Importance of Individual Amino Acids in 
. Metabolism, Ihid., 1906, 35, 88-102. 



CHAPTER XI 



SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITEOGEN FOODS 



"Man begins to die as soon as he is born," but a competent physician who under- 
stands the science of trophotherapy will be able to pilot his patient through the 
rocks and shoals of diet and land him in a haven of safe and enjoyable life. 

Nitrogen in Diet: Nitrogen Equilibrium; Nitrogen in Feces; Low Protein 
Diet; High Protein Diet; Nitrogen-free Diet. 

Protein Metabolism: Urea; Ammonia; Creatinin; Uric Acid; Purin Bodies 
— Source, Chemistry, Occurrence in the Body, Purin Bodies in Food, 
Effect of Purin Foods on Uric Acid, Excess of Purin Diet, Purin-free 
Diet, Low Purin Diet; Fat-free Diet; Carbohydrate-free Diet; Cellu- 
lose Diet. 

Mineral Metabolism: Electrolytic Properties of Salts; Sodium Chlorid; 
Salt- free Diet; Potassium Chlorid; Calcium Diet; Magnesium Salts; 
Phosphorus; Iron Salts; Sulphur Salts; Acid-forming and Base-form- 
ing Elements of Diet; Resumg. 



NITROGEN IN DIET 

The great attention that food both in health and disease has received 
in recent years has yielded to the profession of medicine valuable infor- 
mation concerning trophodynamics. We have considered experimental 
researches in regard to dietetics conducted largely with a view of ascer- 
taining the nutritive value of food material in regard to the requisite 
quantities for supporting life and maintaining bodily equilibrium in all its 
phases and activities. We know, too, that the earliest views so ardently 
promulgated by von Liebig — that there is a direct utilization of particular 
kinds of food constituents for particular purposes — do not strictly hold 
true ; that the use made of the food constituents in the body is determined 
not alone by the nature of the constituents, but to a certain extent by the 

321 



322 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITEOGEN FOODS 

relative quantities of the various constituents on the one hand and by the 
particular needs of the body on the other ; that, for example, while protein 
is essential in food for construction of protoplasm, either in growth or 
repair, when it is ingested in amount greater than is required, the 
excess is utilized for other purposes — as in oxidation to yield energy or 
heat, or in storage as glycogen or fat, as the case may be. Indeed, it must 
be clearly recognized that the knowledge of the food constituents as they 
enter the body and the end-products of metabolism as they leave the body, 
yields inadequate information as to the intervening processes of metab- 
olism which may or may not follow along given lines. It is the knowl- 
edge that we are to-day gaining of processes of intermediary metabolism, 
that is shedding new light on phases of nutrition, that heretofore have 
been merely conjectured or even altogether unknown to us. 

For a given individual, exercise governs largely variations in the 
amount of food required. Within certain limits, it is not so much wliat 
form the food is in, so long as it can be utilized. Protein metabolism does 
not depend so much on the amount of exercise as it does on the amount 
and proportion of protein food ingested. Nitrogen equilibrium in nor- 
mally healthy individuals may be maintained on various amounts of pro- 
tein. It is determined by comparing the total nitrogen intake with the 
total output. If the amount corresponds, or nearly so, the body is said to 
be in a state of nitrogen equilibrium. Equilibrium may be established 
at a low level on partaking of small amounts of protein and larger amounts 
of non-protein food, or on the other hand, it may be maintained on a high 
level by partaking more freely of protein with correspondingly less non- 
protein. Chittenden maintained health, strength and bodily vigor on 50 
grams of protein daily. On the other hand, nitrogen equilibrium has been 
established on as much as 1.50 to 200 grams of protein daily. The human 
economy in normal conditions regulates the amount of protein metabol- 
ized to both the amount and, as well, the total food ingested. 

Nitrogen Equilibrium. — ;\rajor Charles E. Woodruff,^ in discussing the 
nitrogen equilibrium in the tropics, says : 

All natives of the tropics (where civilization causes over-population) are in a 
condition of nitrogren starvation and need much more nitrogen than they can pos- 
sibly get. The old standards of teaching that we should eat as the natives is most 
vicious. They do not eat meat because they cannot get it. They crave it, need it, 
and eat it when they can. On account of the destructive effects of the concen- 
trated tropical actinic rays on protoplasm, we need more nitrogen than at home. 
Please do not copy the old falsehood that we need less. It is also true that we 



1 Major Charles E. Woodruff, Surgeon, U. S. Army. 



I 



NITKOGEN m DIET 323 

need fat, as it furnishes energy better than carbohydrate. It is eaten in prefer- 
ence to starches and sugars for this purpose by workers when they can afford it, 
but they take to starch (rice) because it is cheaper. It is incorrect to say that it 
overheats. It does not overheat us, and it is false to say that fat is not needed in 
the tropics. 

Nitrogen equilibrium is best maintained on a mixed diet, containing 
in addition to the protein both fat and carbohydrate. If the non-protein 
portion of the diet is reduced, other things being equal, there will be a 
nitrogen loss, owing to the fact that more protein is used to supply the 
heat and energy that formerly was supplied by the greater amount of non- 
protein food. It takes some days to establish a nitrogen equilibrium when 
the usual diet of an individual is changed. Say that the ordinary dietary 
contains 16 grams of nitrogen and the diet is suddenly changed. It will be 
several days before equilibrium will be established on a new level, whether 
it be above or below the amount usually metabolized. A slight loss of a 
transient character will be noted when the intake is lessened, but, if the 
loss persists, it means that either too little protein is being taken in the 
food, or that the total caloric value of the food is below the normal amount 
required, or the body is affected with some wasting disease attended with 
nitrogen loss. 

Nitrogen in Feces — In determining the available nitrogen in food, 
attention must be given to the nitrogen of the feces. The feces consist of 
the undigested residue of the food, together with nitrogen from mucus, 
worn out epithelial cells from the walls of the alimentary tract, bacteria, 
coloring matter, bile and other residue. Therefore, the contention that all 
the nitrogen in the feces is derived from the food is erroneous. That 
which is derived from the bile, mucus and debris of broken-down epithelial 
cells is body waste, and has already been added to the nitrogenous content 
of the organism. During a fast, when no food is consumed, bile and mucus 
are still secreted, and the epithelial cells continue to break down and bac- 
teria continue to flourish, and are expelled with the feces. Reider con- 
ducted experiments with a nitrogen-free food, which he previously ascer- 
tained to be readily digestible. The subject was a man of medium height 
and weight. The ration was a cake made from starch, sugar, fat and a 
little salt leavened with cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda. White 
wine and water in small quantities were the only beverages and were 
free of nitrogen. This ration was ingested, he believed, in sufficient 
quantities to secure normal secretion of the digestive juices. On such a 
diet, the inference is that any nitrogen found in the feces could be attrib- 
Tited to body sources only. The average amoimt of nitrogen in the feces 



324 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

during this experiment was 0.5 grams per day, which may be taken to 
represent fairly the amount of nitrogen in the feces arising from body 
waste ; any amount above this figure ordinarily may be attributed to resi- 
due from the food. 

Low Protein Diet. — The low protein diet of Chittenden has been re- 
ferred to above and in Volume II, Chapter V. He and his followers 
urge but little protein above the minimum, together with the requisite 
amount of fat and carbohydrates to make up the needed calories. They 
urge that on this diet health and weight may be maintained and that the 
mental and physical efficiency is greater than when more liberal diets are 
allowed. 

The experiments of Chittenden are of enormous practical value in 
showing that a low protein diet can be used for a long period of time with- 
out danger (see table. Volume II, Chapter IX, p. 254). Low protein 
diets are of value in gout and all gouty affections, in diseases involving the 
tegumentary system, more particularly when accompanying disorders of 
metabolism, in treating the ill effects of habitual overeating and arterio- 
sclerosis, and in fevers and other affections. Brain workers and others 
following sedentary vocations will no doubt do better on diets lower in 
protein than usually advised. After carefully considering all the points 
of a low protein diet, we are led to the conclusion that it is, at the same 
time, a low-purin diet; and many authorities believe that the beneficial 
effects are due in part to the freedom of a low-protein diet from purin 
bodies. Many clinicians find there are only a few cases of gout where 
a moderate quantity of animal food does harm, and many where it exerts 
a beneficial effect. As a matter of fact, the major portion of the human 
race will go on eating and drinking and "making merry,", according to 
their appetites and their ability to gratify them. Still, on the other hand, 
the problem is one of the highest human interest, particularly in refer- 
ence to the "dietary in disease," and in preventing disease when danger 
signals loom in the distance. It is interesting to compare the navy diets 
(see Volume IT, Cliapter XVTTI), which are essentially high protein diets, 
for the reason that the sailor prefers it, and is more contented and does 
better work than when on perhaps a more healthful protein, but for him 
less appetizing, diet. 

Below we append a standard for a low protein diet : 

LOW PROTEIN DIETARY 

In the morning upon waking 5 to 10 ounces of hot water containing 10 to 20 
grains of sodium bicarbonate or potassium citrate. Half an hour later: 



NITROGEN IN DIET 325 

Breakfast: 

A large plate of fruit and milk or cream, followed by abundant cereal and milk 
with bread and butter. No meat, eggs or fish. Wait five hours. 
Dinner: 

Not more than four ounces of meat or fish, which must be quite fresh; a very- 
large plate of green vegetables, potatoes sparingly, and nothing more than a 
taste of sweets. Five hours later: 
Supper: 

May be a repetition of breakfast, but succulent vegetables may replace the fruit, 
and macaroni or a similar dish may be substituted for the cereal. 

Thirst and hunger between meals may be satisfied by water and fruit about one 

hour before a meal or during the night. 
Abstain from meat juices (gravy and soup), gelatin, coffee, tea, cocoa, salt and 

strong condiments, alcohol, pastiy. 
All starches and meats must be well cooked. 

High Protein Diet — A high protein diet, according to Voit's standard 
from 118 to 120 grams of protein daily, may be of use in certain condi- 
tions — during pregnancy, lactation, in convalescing from wasting diseases, 
in the beginning of physical training when muscular growth is great, and 
in combating certain diseases like tuberculosis, etc. During growth the 
protein requirements are higher than in adult life, but, on the other hand, 
high protein diets are objectionable for individuals who follow sedentary 
occupations, and for all of those conditions benefited by a low protein diet. 
When studying the subject of Protein and Nutrition in Volume II, Chap- 
ter IX, we learned the minimum amount of low-protein diets to be 60 
grams, and for a high-protein diet, 120 grams; this leaves rather a wide 
range, and it is safe to say that the optimum lies between these two. We 
do not believe that any standard will ever be definitely fixed that will be 
of universal application, but we are inclined to believe that future stand- 
ards will be worked out to cover the various classes and normal condi- 
tions, as well as in different disturbances of metabolism. To-day the 
standards that are being put into practical use for tuberculous patients, 
contain 30 per cent of protein above the normal. In nephritis 60 to TO 
grams are allowable; in fevers, TO grams, etc. 

Nitrogen-free Diet — A nitrogen-free diet can be made from starch, 
sugar, salt and almond oil or other fat. This material can be made pala- 
table and baked into a cake, with baking powder for leavening. There is 
no very great therapeutic use for a nitrogen-free diet nor is it conceivable 
that an individual would be satisfied with it for very long. Its 
principal use seems to be chiefly for experimental purposes, especially 
when it is desired to make observations on the metabolism of nitrogen. 



326 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

Lehman observed that when a man consumed a nitrogen-free diet for a 
period of three days, he excreted daily 7.4 grams of nitrogen. Reider, 
in a similar experiment, found that the average excretion of nitrogen by 
the kidneys was 8 . 7 grams and the feces contained . 9 grams, which was 
equivalent to a loss of 56 grams of protein daily. Physiologists have not 
yet determined just how much "floating protein," or more correctly 
amino-acids, there is in the human organism. It varies daily; but it is 
safe to say that all the floating protein could be consumed in a very few 
days. If, for any reason, it should be determined to rid the system of 
"floating protein," it may be done by giving a comparatively free nitrogen 
aliment for a short period of time. This diet may be selected from the 
foods given in the table below, showing the percentages of protein in 
foods : 

PERCENTAGES OF PROTEIN IN PROTEIN-POOR FOODS 



Foods containing 


Foods containing 


Foods containing 


Foods containing 


0.5 per cent or 


0.5 to 1.0 per cent 


1 to 1.5 per cent 


more than 2 per 


less protein 


protein 


protein 


cent protein 


Arrowroot starch, 


Manioc starch, ar- 


Grapes, bananas, 


Potatoes, string 


cornstarch, sugar, 
honey, cottonseed 


rowroot, sago, 


leeks, onions, 


beans, artichokes, 


tapioca, apples. 


cabbage, celery. 


lard, thick cream, 


oil, almond oil. 


pears, plums, 


squash, parsnips. 


fat salt pork, fat 




rhubarb, toma- 


cauliflower. 


ham, bone mar- 




toes, cucumbers, 


sauerkraut. 


row. 




radishes, turnips, 


horseradish, to- 






oranges, lemons. 


mato catsup, 






raspberries. 


butter. 






gooseberries, 








strawberries. 







After taking a diet consisting of the foregoing fruits and vegetables 
for four days, some bread, rice, oatmeal, milk pudding or soup may be 
added to the list. The amount of protein in these foods is as follows: 
Beef soup, .4 per cent; meat stew (when meat is taken out), 4.6; oxtail 
soup, 4.0 ; chicken broth, 3.6 ; tomato soup, 1.8 ; vegetable soup, 2.8 ; milk, 
3,5 ; boiled rice, 2.8 ; boiled oatmeal (thick), 2.8 ; brown bread, 5.5 ; white 
bread, 8 or 9 ; zwieback, 9.8 per cent. The return to the ordinary diet, 
or one containing at least 55 grams of protein daily, should not be deferred 
longer than the eighth day. 

Spirits contain no protein. The amount in wine is practically negli- 
gible, and an infusion of cereal coffee (1 in 20) contains only 0.2 per cent 



PROTEIN METABOLISM . 327 

of protein. The choice of foods is larijc, and such a diet, while yielding 
sufficient energy, would speedily result in a clearance of superfluous pro- 
tein materials. 

We have learned that cell metabolism is attended by changes of a 
destructive nature. Carbon is oxidized, yielding carbon dioxid ; hydrogen 
unites with oxygen and forms water. Nitrogen is burned oif, but only 
partially reduced, urea being the chief product of protein metabolism. 
It is formed largely in the liver, but it is very probable that other cellular 
organs, such as the spleen and lymphatic glands, participate in its 
formation. 

RROTEIN METABOLISM 

In the study of the Physiology of Enzymes and Hormones as Applied 
in the Process of Digestion (Volume I, Chapter VI), we learned that the 
protein molecules, on being metabolized in the body, yield varying amounts 
of arginin, which ultimately undergoes hydrolysis into ornithin and urea. 
In this way it is possible to trace an appreciable part of the nitrogen of 
protein to the urea stage through a series of direct cleavages. The protein 
in digestion and in catabolism is split into attiino-acids, which are even- 
tually deaminized, the nitrogen of the amino-group being split off as am- 
monia. This, with carbonic acid, forms ammonium carbonate or car- 
bamate which is transformed into urea by various organs of the body, 
notably by the liver, as stated above. 

The important nitrogenous end-products of protein metabolism other 
than urea, are ammonium salts, purin bodies and creatinin. 

Urea. — Protein metabolism has heretofore been considered to be quali- 
tatively better, in proportion as a larger percentage of the urinary nitro- 
gen is eliminated as urea and a smaller moiety in other forms. This, 
however, is not always the case, since this may be largely a matter of the 
amounts of protein consumed. 

According to Folin, who made a careful and extended study of urines 
of healthy men partaking first of a high and then of a low protein diet, 
the distribution of nitrogen between urea and other nitrogenous end-prod- 
ucts depends very largely upon the absolute amount of nitrogen metab- 
olized. He observed a man who was fed on a high protein diet (free 
from meat) for one day and at the end of the week was partaking of a 
diet composed of starch and cream, which furnished in all about 6 grams 
of protein per day. The end-products of his protein metabolism are 
shown in the following table from Sherman: 



328 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 



END PRODUCTS OF PROTEIN METABOLISM ON BOTH HIGH AND 

LOW PROTEIN DIET 



Nitrogenous end products 
of protein digestion 


On high protein diet 
(free from meat) 


On low protein diet 
(starch and cream) 


Grams 


Per cent 


Grams 


Per cent 


Total nitrogen 


16.8 
14.7 
0.49 
0.18 
0.58 
0.85 


87.5 
3.0 
1.1 
3.6 
4.9 


3.6 

2.2 

0.42 

0.09 

0.60 

0.27 




Urea nitrogen 


61.7 


Ammonia nitrogen 


11.3 


Uric acid nitrogen 


2.5 


Creatinin nitrogen 


17.2 


Undetermined nitrogen 


7.3 



An examination of this table shows there was a marked decrease in 
both the absolute and relative amounts of urea, as well as a decrease in 
the absolute, but an increase in the relative amount of uric acid excreted, 
while the absolute amount of creatinin remained stationary. 

Regarding the urea of the circulating blood, Dr. Denis, of the Massa- 
chusetts Hospital, ifound that the intake of ordinary protein may be in- 
creased from the amount sufficient to give from 6 to 8 grams of urea in 
the 24rhour urine, to that sufficient to produce a daily urea excretion of 
from 30 to 50 grams without producing any material increase in the cir- 
culating urea. Until recently, we depended entirely upon the analysis of 
the urine to determine the metabolism of any dietary regimen. The toler- 
ance of the human economy for carbohydrate food was ascertained by 
examination of the secretion from the kidneys for sugar after an ingestion 
of varying quantities of this type of foodstuff. The ability of the kid- 
neys to excrete the wa.ste products of inorganic salts was likewise ascer- 
tained by urinary analysis and the efficiency of the renal functions was 
judged on this basis. The more advanced methods for the analysis of 
very small quantities of blood — so-called micro-analysis — ^has transformed 
the seat of observation to the circulating fluid in the vascular system. To- 
day blood analysis for clinical purposes is making rapid strides, not only 
so far as qualitative tests are concerned, but for quantitative tests. At 
the present time, methods for the determination of the sugar content of 
the blood are in use ; likewise, the estimation for non-protein nitrogen, 
urea, creatinin, uric acid, fats and lipoids has been brought within the 
scope of a feasible determination on small samples of blood. 



1 Editorial, J. Am. M. Ass,, 1917. 



PROTEIN" METABOLISM 329 

Ammonia. — As previously stated, ammonia is evidently a normal pre- 
cursor of urea, being changed into the latter during its passage through 
the liver. According to this assumption the elimination of nitrogen as 
ammonia may be notably increased at the expense of urea: (a) by the 
ingestion of mineral acids, or of food yielding unusual amounts of such 
acids by oxidation in the body; (h) in cases yielding an excess of acids in 
metabolism, as the acidosis of diabetes, fevers (inanition) and pregnancy; 
(c) in structural diseases of the liver (acute yellow atrophy). It will be 
seen that the first and second methods increase the ammonia by "fixing" 
it as salts, thus preventing its transformation into urea, while the third 
diminishes the ability of the system to effect such transformation. 

Creatinin. — Normal urine contains about 1.5 grams of creatinin per 
day. The origin and significance of endogenous creatinin and especially 
its physiological relations to creatin (of which it is chemically the anhy- 
drid) is still unsettled, despite much clinical research. It seems to depend 
on the musculature of the individual. The amount excreted is not gov- 
erned by the amount of protein consumed, therefore the percentage of 
urinary nitrogen appearing in this form tends to increase as the total 
nitrogen diminishes and vice versa. Sherman and Lusk agree with the 
above statement, but Folin, after an extended study of the urines of 
healthy men partaking first of a high and then a low protein dietary, con- 
cluded that the nitrogen excretion depended largely upon the amount of 
nitrogen metabolized. 

Uric Acid. — The former theory as to the production of uric acid in 
the body was that it represented protein imperfectly oxidized into urea 
and that the uric acid diathesis was a condition of suboxidation in which 
the uric acid acted directly as a toxic agent. Of late, researches of physio- 
logical chemists have considerably modified this view, and it is now held 
that uric acid and allied purin bodies are entirely independent of the 
general catabolism of protein matter. It is a product of the final stage 
of catabolism of the purin bodies that in Volume I, Chapter III, we have 
seen enter into the construction of the nuclein and nucleoproteins. There- 
fore, the general clinical conception of the uric acid diathesis might be 
better termed "purinemia," Benedict(l). 

Purin Bodies — SOURCE.— Purin bodies are nitrogenous substances con- 
structed on the purin framework, C5!N"4. They include uric acid, xanthin, 
hypoxanthin, adenin and guanin, and closely related are methylxanthin 
and theobromin. Fischer has shown the relation of all these bodies to 
purin. They contain a central chain of three carbon atoms to which is 
attached on each side a urea group, so that they may be regarded as 



330 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

diureids. These bodies arise from niicleoprotein, the components of 
which are normal constituents of the nucleus and protoplasm of cells. In 
the human economy the nucleoproteins are split into nuclein and protein, 
and finally the nucleic acid into purin bodies, pyrimidin bases, phosphoric 
acid and sugars. This is the normal order of the metabolic breakdown of 
nucleoproteins, and it occurs in some animals as well as in human beings. 
As a group the purin bodies are said to raise blood pressure and tend to 
produce angiosclerosis and various sclerotic changes in the viscera. 

In studying the characters of the proximate principles of foodstuffs 
(Volume I, Chapter III), we considered at some length the chemistry of 
purins and purin compounds, as also the pyrimidin bases to which the 
reader is referred. 

CHEMISTRY. — Although current text-books on dietetics barely mention 
the chemistry of the individual purins, yet we consider them of sufficient 
importance to state some of the principal facts which underlie their gi-oup 
reactions in order to delineate the several phases of nuclein metabolism. 
According to Hall (2), the purin compounds crystallize easily, are more 
or less soluble in the usual solvents, and can now be oxidized and reduced. 
Hypoxanthin yields small crystalline scales with sharpened extremities 
almost like grains of wheat. Xantbin may be distinguished by its thin, 
flat, glistening rhombic plates, guanin by small prismatic crystals or 
amorphous masses, adenin by long needle-shaped prisms, and uric acid 
by rhombic plates. Rarer forms have been demonstrated by variations in 
the media and rapidity of crystallization. 

Their solubilities present the following remarkable differences: 

SOLUBILITY OF PURIN COMPOUNDS 



Water 


Hypoxanthin 


Xanthin 


Adenin 


Uric Acid Guanin 


Cold 


1:300 


1:13000 


1:1086 


1:16000 Insoluble 


Hot 


1:78 


1:1300 




1:1600 


Alkalies 










Weak 


Soluble 


Soluble 


Soluble 


Soluble Slightly soluble 


Acids 


a 


« 


u 


Insoluble Soluble 



From a itynthetic standpoint the purin bodies are exceedingly interest- 
ing. About twelve different derivatives of the purin nucleus are known 
to exist in nature, but not less than 146 have been produced in the labora- 
tory. The closely related caffein and theobromin are largely used as 
medicaments for their stimulative and diuretic properties, and it is possi- 
ble that in the near future these may be made synthetically. Trichlor 
purin, obtained by the action of phosphorus chlorid upon uric acid, occu- 
pies a position midway between uric acid and the methylxanthins, caffein, 



PROTEIN METABOLISM 331 

theobromin and theophjlin. Emil Fischer, in his lucid and interesting- 
address given in 8tockhohn in November, 1902, after the distribution of 
the Nobel prize, draws a picture of the time when the present coffee 
adulterants — chicory and coffee surrogate — will be superseded by syn- 
thetically made caftein, and suggests a period when coffee beans and their 
roasting will be unnecessary, since the solution of a small powder in hot 
water will give a well flavored, refreshing drink at a much lower cost and 
with much less trouble than the present conditions necessitate. 

OCCURRENCE IN THE BODY.— Purin bodies exist ready formed in 
many of our foods, especially those in the animal kingdom; but on the 
other hand, the system can produce its own nuclein and the higher com- 
pounds of nuclein on a diet free from purins, though, of course, containing 
proteins. Further, the elimination of purins is somewhat increased by 
increasing the intake of proteins, about half of the elimination of purins 
on an ordinary mixed diet being accounted for by the ingestion of more 
or less combined purins, and about half by the metabolism of nuclein- 
containing structures, such as white blood cells and the cells of viscera, 
namely, the kidneys, liver, pancreas, spleen and thjonus. The old theory 
that no purin bodies are formed except from purins is false, while the 
older view that uric acid is a precursor of urea is true in a limited sense 
only. Lusk, referring to the successive steps in purin metabolism, states 
that deamination is brought about through the action of specific enzymes 
as follows : "Summarizing these results, it may be said that nucleic acid 
may be broken up by nuclease, a ferment found in all tissue. On the lib- 
eration of the purin bases, guanin and adenin are deaminized by guanase 
and adenase wherever these enzymes are found. Oxidizing enzymes, the 
xanthin oxidases, now convert hypoxanthin and xanthin into uric acid, 
while a uricolytic ferment of varying potency in different tissues in dif- 
ferent animals may break up and destroy the uric acid." 

Purins occur in both animal and vegetable nitrogenous bodies, in 
greater abundance in the former and obviously in still greater abundance 
in glandular viscera and white blood cells than in muscle and connective 
tissues, on account of the relative preponderance of nuclei, while vege- 
table nuclein occurs richly in yeast cells. The purins which are con- 
sumed with the food are termed exogenous purins, and those excreted by 
a healthy normal individual independent of his food — the result of the 
metabolism of his own tissues — endogenous purins. 

The daily "wear and tear" on metabolism of cell constituents leads to 
the production of a certain amount of purin bodies. These substances con- 
stitute the "endogenous" purins of the excreta. When tissues containing 



332 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITKOGEN FOODS 

nucleins or free purins are eaten, the "endogenous" purins of the food 
ingested become "exogenous" to the system which absorbs them. As "en- 
dogenous" purins are practically waste products on their way to excretion, 
when they become "exogenous" to another organism they have little nutri- 
tive value and demand early and rapid elimination. This is generally 
effected by deaminization of guanin and adenin and the oxidation of the 
oxypurins, hypoxanthin and xanthin to uric acid, and then the purin ring 
or chain in the uric acid is in the system, probably chiefly in the liver, 
partially split off and a portion of the uric acid excreted as urea. The 
course followed in the case of the nucleins is not quite clear, as a smaller 
percentage appears in the urine as uric acid. 

The amount of purins excreted in the urine due to endogenous forma- 
tion may be estimated after taking a purin-free diet for a few days, and 
the amount varies from 0.1 to 0.2 grams per day (3). The exogenous 
purins are principally transformed in the body, 50 per cent being ex- 
creted as urea and the remaining portion being eliminated by the kidneys 
as uric acid with some xanthin and hypoxanthin. 

We can apply the term "free-purins" to purin bodies, and "bound- 
purins" to the purins of nucleic acid, nuclein and nucleoproteins. The 
process of purin formation goes on throughout life as a part of the cell 
metabolism, but the transformation of purin, likewise, goes on constantly. 
A number of enzymes cooperate in the transformation of purin-containing 
materials, for instance, nucleases liberate guanin and adenin from nucleic 
acid, these aminopurins being converted by the enz;)Tnes guanase and 
adenase into xanthin and hypoxanthin respectively, and oxidases trans- 
form hypoxanthin to xanthin and then to uric acid. The latter is finally 
to a certain extent decomposed and destroyed by uricolytic enzymes of 
varying potency present in the various organs. 

Hypoxanthin and xanthin are often obtained as products of decompo- 
sition of nucleic acid, but are generally formed by the deaminization and 
oxidation of guanin and adenin. 

It is now generally conceded that certain purin bodies are constantly 
being produced wherever cellular processes are in active operation, and 
although normally these are largely converted into other materials which 
are more easily excreted, practically all nitrogenous animal foods contain 
some of them. Lean meat, the flesh of mammals, birds and fish, contains 
xanthin, hypoxanthin and uric acid, besides urea, creatin, creatinin and 
other extractives. Liver is rich in nuclein, xanthin, hvpoxanthin, urio 
acid, urea and other nitrogenous extractives. Spleen (milt) also is rich 
in nuclein, xanthin, hypoxanthin, uric acid, as well as lecithin, creatinin, 



PROTEIN" METABOLISM 333 

leiicin and tyrosin. Thymus (chest sweetbread) contains niiclein, xanthin, 
hjpoxanthin, guanin and adenin in large amounts. Pancreas (belly 
sweetbread) contains the same kinds of purins, besides leucin, tj'^rosin and 
other amino-acids. Kidneys contain uric acid, xanthin, hypoxanthin, as 
also urea, tuarin, leucin, creatin, creatinin, etc. Beef-tea, soup and gravy 
contain the same kinds of purins and extractives as the substances from 
which they are derived. Vegetable foods, especially seeds, contain, nucleo- 
proteins, nuclein, nucleic acid, and purin bodies, with amino-acids, such 
as asparagin, leucin, tyrosin, etc. Tea, coffee and kola contain caffein 
or trimethyl-xanthin — that is, xanthin with three methyl groups in its 
molecule; cocoa contains theobromin or dimethyl-xanthin ; and guarana 
contains both caffein and theobromin. 

As already stated, according to Burian, all of the exogenous purins 
are not excreted ; a small fraction remains in the organism or becomes 
entirely disintegrated by the oxidases of the various organs. Therefore, 
on ordinary diets, while the excretion of purin is necessarily increased by 
the exogenous or food purin, not all that is ingested is eliminated as such. 
The amount of exogenous purin. excreted in the urine is scarcely influenced 
by the individuality of the subject, usually the purin excretion in normal 
individuals being practically the same ; but it must be borne in mind that 
its excretion is largely influenced by certain foods. For instance, in beef 
and veal, the purin content is 0,16; calf's liver, 0.12; calf's spleen, 0.16; 
calf's thymus, 0.4, and in coffee, 0.2 per cent. When these organs are 
largely partaken of or eaten alone, they lead to excretion of exogenous 
purin in the following proportions: beef and veal, 0.03; liver, 0.06; 
spleen, 0.8; thjonus, 0.1; coffee, 0.075. Burian and Schurr as a result 
of their researches conclude that with the identical kind and same pro- 
portion of food the exogenous purin in the urine is virtually the same 
in all persons. According to Walker Hall, there is no personal equation 
in this metabolic process. It is known, however, that all purins in the 
food are not absorbed. There is a normal daily excretion of purin bodies 
in the feces referred to as fecal purin, to distinguish it from that ex- 
creted by the kidneys called urinary purin. Of course, the amount of 
fecal purin varies with the kind of food, and is greater where substances 
are eaten which are rich in nuclein and purin derivatives. Ordinarily, 
60 per cent of the purin bodies are absorbed and 40 per cent excreted 
with the feces. 

PURIN BODIES IN FOOD.— The chief fluctuation in the amount of 
tiric acid in the urine can be explained by variations in the amount of uric 
acid yielders (purins) contained in the food. The endogenous fraction. 



334 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITKOGEN FOODS 

on the other hand, seems to be thoroughly fixed, but as to its exact seat 
and mode of formation and the precise conditions which control it, we still 
have much to learn. It is obvious that we have at hand an important 
means of regulating the amount of uric acid liberated in the body, namely 
by controlling the amount of purins in the dietary. As stated, the foods 
which yield much uric acid are the cellular organs of animals. We have, 
then, a clear dietetic indication if we wish to lessen the liberation of uric 
acid in the body. The diet recommended is one composed largely of 
vegetables with the exception of oatmeal, beans, peas, onions and asparagus. 
Below we append a table from Tibbies (4) of the various foodstuffs, 
showing the percentage of purins contained, which are to be tabooed if 
we wish to lessen the manufacture of uric acid in a patient. 



THE 


QUANTITY OF PURINS IN FOOD 




Varieties 


OF Food 


Purins, grain.s 
per pound 


Percentage 
of purins 


Codfish 


4.07 
5.56 
7.14 
8.15 
4.00 
6.75 
8.14 
8.49 
3.97 
8.08 
7.96 
9.13 
■ 14.45 
19.26 
70.43 
9.06 
8.82 
6.31 
3.45 
2.54 
4.16 
.14 
.26 
1.50 
1.09 
1.27 
1.35 


.058 


Plaice 


.079 


Halibut 


,102 


Salmon 


.116 


Tnpe 


.057 


Mutton 


.096 


Veal : Loin 


.116 


Pork : Loin 


.121 


Neck 


.056 


Ham (fat) 


.115 


Beef: Ribs 


.113 


Sirloin 


.130 


Steak 


.206 


Liver 


.275 


Sweetbread 


1.006 


Chicken 


.129 


Turkey 


.126 


Rabbit 


.097 


Oatmeal 


.053 


Peameal 


.039 


Haricot beans 


.063 


Potatoes 


.002 


Onions 


.009 


Asparagus 


.021 


Lager beer 


.012 


Pale ale 


.014 


Porter 


.015 







EFFECT OF PURIN FOODS ON URIC ACID.— The effect of purin 
foods on the uric acid content of th? blood has recently been studied at 
length by W. Denis(5), who concludes that "in normal individuals no 



PROTEIK METABOLISM 



335 



increase in the circulating uric acid is produced by the ingestion of even 
hirge quantities of purins. The ingestion of purins, either free as they 
occur in meats, or in the form of nucleoproteins of glandular tissues like 
liver, sweetbread, etc.," is followed by a decided increase in the urinary 
output of uric acid. Denis concludes that the normal kidney reacts to an 
excess of uric acid in a way essentially similar to that which it conducts 
itself to an excess of urea, and is able to excrete the excess of uric acid 
presented to it when a diet high in purins is fed, thereby keeping the cir- 
culating uric acid at the same level as that obtained when only endogenous 
uric acid is to be excreted. When, the kidney has been damaged, even 
before certain damage has reached the point where nitrogen retention is 
apparent, as shown by the non-protein nitrogen values, an accumulation 
of uric acid takes place in the blood after a short period of purin feeding. 
This phenomenon is interesting, not alone from the evidence that it brings 
of the importance of the renal efficiency for the level at which uric acid 
circulates in the blood, but also for its value to diagnostic procedures. 
Denis suggests that when the determination of uric acid in the blood is 
undertaken for diagnostic purposes, the insistence for a short period of 
purin-free foods is unnecessary, except in cases in which kidney insuf- 
ficiency exists, or perhaps in the case of persons who habitually consume 
extremely large quantities of foods of a high purin content. 

There are two views as to the origin of uric acid: (a) that it is formed 
in the kidneys; (h) that it is formed in the tissues. The view that uric 
acid is formed in the kidneys as well as excreted by them was taught by 
Garrod as early as 1848, who was able to show that the blood of gouty 
persons contained abnormal quantities of uric acid, which observation has 
since been confirmed by many observers. 

EXCESS OF PURIN DIET.— The continuous consumption of food con- 
taining purin bodies in large percentage ultimately leads to their accumu- 
lation and retention in the organism, when renal insufficiency supervenes. 
The normal liver can transform and the kidneys can excrete purin bodies 
so long as these organs are executing their normal functions, and no 
accvimulation will result, but there is always danger that the constant irri- 
tation of the kidneys by the excess of purin, more especially uric acid, 
may result in chronic nephritis of the gouty type. Renal insufficiency, 
with the retention of purins in the system, it is thought, may be the cause 
of gout, but its etiological relation to so-called rheumatic gout, uric acid 
gravel, uric acidemia, migraine, neuralgia, sciatica, epilepsy, vascular dis- 
eases and many other conditions of ill health in which it has been put forth 
as a causative factor, is very doubtful. 



336 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

PURIN-FKEE DIET. — Purin-free diet is indicated in gout and wherever 
it is desirable to reduce renal irritation. The foods enumerated in the table 
on page 334 should be interdicted and the following foods, which contain 
practically no purin, advised: milk, cheese, cream, butter, eggs, white 
bread, macaroni, rice, sago, tapioca, cabbage, cauliflower, lethice, water- 
cress, fruit, sugar, honey, marmalade, jam, jelly, sherry, port, volnay and 
claret. Four articles of diet — milk, butter, eggs and cheese — form 
together our most valuable means of witliholding purin substances from the 
body and yet allowing the intake of a diet at once digestible, easily ab- 
sorbed and capable of maintaining nitrogenous equilibrium. It is a milk 
and fruit diet with bread and butter, milk puddings and salads added to 
it. ]\Iilk and milk products contain only traces of purin. Potatoes and 
onions contain very little, and are allowed. Oatmeal, peameal and malted 
lentils contain from 2l/> to 31/4 grains of purins per pound, and should 
not be allowed. Asparagus contains very little purin, but much asparagin, 
which is a valuable protein-sparer. The following articles should be alto- 
gether forbidden : tea, coffee, cocoa, kola, guarana, fish, fowl and butcher's 
meat, brown bread, peas, beans, asparagus, ale, stout and lager beer. 
Cider, perry and a small quantity of spirits, claret, sherry or volnay, may 
also be allowed. Wines do not appear to contain any purin bodies and 
their harmful properties in gout must be due to some other constituent. 

The purin bodies in coffee, tea and chocolate are largely methyl-purin, 
and do not undergo the same metabolic changes as other purins, so they 
need not be excluded from the diet of the gouty or rheumatic as rigorously 
as other purins. 

Dr. Alexander Haig is authority for the following purin-free diet, 
which yields about 90 grams of protein, enough to meet the daily re- 
quirement: 

PURIN-FREE DIET TO SUPPLY PROTEIN 

12 ounces of white bread contain 372 grains 25 grams 

4 « « oatmeal " " 208 " 14 « 

2 " " rice « 86 " 5.6 " 

3 pints of milk " 572 " 38.1 " 

16 ounces of vegetables and fruit contain 140 " 9.3 " 

LOW-PURIN DIET. — A low-puriu diet consists of the same articles of 
food mentioned in the purin-free diet, with the following additions: tripe, 
codfish, potatoes, onions and particularly all fruits and green vegetables. 
Puddings may be made of milk, sugar, eggs, rice, sago, tapioca and maca- 
roni or flour, and custard, junkets, jellies and suet may be used. 



PEOTEIN METABOLISM 337 

One of Haig's disciples suggests the following for puriu-f ree meals : 

First Day 
Lunch: 

Green vegetables, baked potatoes, butter, stewed figs, 3^ pint of junket, 2 ounces 
of pine nut kernels (grated), with whipped cream. 

Dinner: 

Biscuits and butter, 1 ounce of grated cheese or some milk curds, light pudding, 
stewed fruit and cream. 

Second Day 
Lunch: 

Green vegetables, potatoes with butter, cheese sauce and dry toast, fruit tart 
with cream, 3^ pint of milk. 

Dinner: 

Two boiled eggs, biscuits and butter, milk pudding containing 3^ pint of milk, 
stewed fruit and cream with biscuits. 

Third Day 
Lunch: 

Potatoes and butter, green vegetables or salad, pudding or "cutlet" made of two 
ounces of ground nuts, stewed fruit and cream with biscuits. 

Dinner: 

Biscuits and butter, with cheese souffle or omelette, stewed fruit and cream with 
biscuits, roasted chestnuts. 

It must be realized that a purin-free diet is only a temporary measure. 
A purin-free diet is at best only a low protein diet, and the physician 
must see that the proteins consumed do not fall below 60 or YO grams 
per day. This diet should not be continued longer than two or three 
months before fish, tripe, pork and ham are allowed. Part of the 
meat bases and purins will be washed out during the boiling of these 
foods. It is claimed by some dietitians that the first meat allowed should 
be sweetbread, because the purins in it are "bound-purins." Equally 
competent observers. Walker Hall, Burian and Schurr, and Tibbies, do not 
favor the allowance of sweetbread for the reason that, on analysis, it shows 
a very high percentage of purins. These observers find that from 60 to 
TO per cent of those purins are absorbed and, at the most, only 40 per cent 
escape absorption. It is advisable, when an ordinary diet is resumed, to 
make additions gradually. First allow boiled leg or loin of mutton, boiled 
rabbit or boiled fowl, as the breast of fowl contains less extractives than 
the other portions. The physician can conservatively allow pigeon, breast 
of turkey or other fowl, well roasted rib of beef, sirloin of beef and steak, 
the latter being added last. The following articles of food should be per- 
manently excluded: veal, pork, except the neck, goose, duck, high game 
and greasy foods. The question has been asked : "Is a purin-free or a low- 
purin dietary useful in the treatment of gout ?" Most certainly it is. If 



338 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITKOGEN FOODS 

gout be due to the defective metabolism of uuclein or accumulation of 
purin bodies from renal insufficiency, these substances should certainly 
be excluded from the diet until the organism recovers its powers of elimi- 
nating them. The diet doubtless has its limitations. It is not a panacea, 
and in gout its use is limited by the nature of the disease. 

Fat-free Diet. — A fat-free diet is of value in hypochlorhydria, catarrh, 
atony and dilatation of the stomach and in carcinoma of the stomach. 
For some time it has been known that the presence of an excess of fat, 
particularly of butter, in the contents of the stomach, will check the secre- 
tion of gastric juice, and advantage has been taken of this fact in the 
treatment of hypochlorhydria. On this account, the absence of fat from 
food allows a more generous secretion of gastric juice, including hydro- 
chloric acid. In various disorders of the stomach, a condition of hypo- 
chlorhydria exists, where the normal proportion of hydrochloric acid is 
absent, in consequence of which the mucous membrane of the stomach may 
become infected by microorganisms, which give rise to catarrh, organic 
acidity, atony of the muscular coat, and dilatation. In carcinomatous 
conditions of the stomach, near the pylorus, there is likewise a diminu- 
tion of free hydrochloric acid, and some authorities consider the cachexia 
produced by this disease a consecjuence of the subnutrition resulting from 
hypochlorhydria. It is argued that the elimination of fat from the di- 
etary encourages a freer secretion of gastric juice with a larger projwr- 
tion of free hydrocliloric acid, and tlie normal (nascent) hydrochloric 
acid comes into direct contact with the crypts of the mucous membrane, 
which it slowly but effectively disinfects, and at the same time gives tone 
to the muscular coat. A fat-free diet is of value in such conditions. On 
the opposite page we give a table of fat-free foods, foods containing 0.5 
per cent, foods containing less than 1 per cent of fats, and foods with 1 to 
2 per cent of fat. 

It is practically impossible to provide an absolutely fat-free diet. 
However, we can get near enough to a fat-free diet by removing as much 
fat as possible from the meat and milk and avoiding the use of butter, 
suet and other fats and oils. The table will serve as a guide to the phy- 
sician or dietitian in directing a practically fat-free diet which would 
consist largely of bread, marmalade, white of eggs, meat extracts, soups, 
broths, oysters, light fish, lean meat and the breast of fowl, potatoes, 
vegetables and fruits. 

Carbohydrate-free Diet — A carbohydrate-free diet is one practically 
consisting of meat, green vegetables and hot water. A diet free from 
starch, sugar and other carlx)hydrates is recommended in the treatment 



PEOTEIN METABOLISM 
PERCENTAGES OF FAT IN FOODS 



339 



T<^fl+-frpp ^^*^^Hcl 


Foods containing 0.5 


Foods containing less 


Foods with 1 to 2 


X t*u 41 CC X \J\J\i.iJ 


per cent or less 


than 1 per cent of fat 


per cent of fat 


Sugar 


Skim milk 


Fine white flour 


Sole, plaice 


Honey 


Casein powders 


White bread 


Smelt 


Treacle 


Sugar, pears 


Ryemeal 


Sturgeon 


Starch 


Corn-starch 


Rye bread 


Weakfish 


Dextrin 


Arrowroot, sago 


Beef tea 


Skate 


Beef tea 


Apples, tapioca 


Meat extracts 


Bluefish 


Meat extracts 


Green peas 


Beef broth 


Blackfish 


Casein preparations 


String beans 


Meat stews when 


Kingfish 




Potatoes, Litchi nuts 


skimmed 


Venison 




Parsnips, muskmelons 


Tomato soup 


Partridge 




Carrots, turnips 


Oxtail soup 


Breast of boiled fowl 




Radishes,watermelons 


MuUigatawny soup 


Wheat 




Beetroot, salsify 


Pea soup, Gumbo soup 


Brown bread 




Scorzonera 


Turtle, frog's legs 


Wholemeal bread 




Cabbage, plums 


Oysters, clams 


Buckwheat flour 




Cauliflower 


ScaUops 


Macaroni 




Brussels sprouts 


Crab, Crayfish 


Vermicelli 




Spinach, currants 


Shrimps 


Haricot 




Vegetable marrow 


Fish: 


Navy beans 




Squash, lettuce 


Bass, cod 


Dried peas 




Asparagus, oranges 


Cusk, flounder 


Frijoles 




Tomatoes, peaches 


Haddock, hake 


Green com 




Mushrooms, truffles 


Yellow perch 


Grapes 




Onions, melons 


Perch-pike 


Bananas 




Leeks, cucumbers 


Gray pike 






Celery, rhubarb 


Pickerel-pike 






Strawberries 


Pollock 






Raspberries 


Red grouper 






Gooseberries 


Red snapper 






White of eggs 







of certain gastric ailments, rheumatism, gout, diabetes and uric acidemia. 
Dr. Salisbury first recommended this form of diet, and according to his 
directions it consists of from two to four pounds of beef freed from fat, 
gristle, connective tissue and bone. It is chopped very fine, made into 
patties about three inches in diameter and one inch thick, and fried in 
a pan w^ithout fat or water. These are heated rapidly on one side and 
then on tbe other to coagulate the albumin, after which the process of 
cooking is allowed to proceed very slowly, and they are served while 
slightly underdone. (8ee Volume II, Chapter XII.) 

Cellulose Diet. — The cellulose diet furnishes nutritive subsistence for 
the lower animals, the herbivora being able to digest from 60 to 70 per 
cent of the crude fiber of dried grasses (hay) and cereals; 4Y to 62 per 
cent of that in carrots, cabbage and celery, and 25 per cent of that in 



340 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

lettuce. It is witliiu the bounds of probability that primitive man pos- 
sessed this faculty in common with, herbivorous animals. It is stated by 
competent authority that at the present day some of the existing primitive 
races, the Bushman, Nilotic negro, and others, possess a very large cecum, 
and that their colon secretes an enzyme which dissolves the outer covering 
of vegetable cells, and the fluid from the vermiform appendix digests 
cellulose. The civilized races of mankind have lost the power of digesting 
cellulose material. Bunge is authority for the assertion that "the epi- 
thelium of the colon secretes an enzyme which has a slight action on the 
cellulose coverings of cells" ; notwithstanding, he practically agrees with 
the majority of clinicians that putrefaction is practically the only change 
which cellulose, or crude tiber, undergoes in the intestines of man, and 
that its principal and only use in the human economy is a mechanical 
stimulus to peristalsis. Cellulose undoubtedly possesses irritating quali- 
ties which it is necessary to minimize in cases of chronic gastric and in- 
testinal catarrh, ulcer of the stomach, cancer or stricture of the 
pylorus. Physiologists tell us that the presence of cellulose acts as a 
stimulant, and as a result the food is hurried along in the alimentary 
canal more rapidly than when this substance is absent. This irritating 
effect is desirable in eases of atony of the intestinal canal, and advantage 
should be taken of it in prescribing, while the conclusion to be drawn 
from the observations of Bunge and others is that the advantages arising 
from the presence of cellulose in the food of the average individual will 
far outweigh its disadvantages. 

Von Noorden prescribes a whole-meal Graham bread, all sorts of 
legumes, including the skins, coarse oatmeal and vegetables containing a 
high percentages of cellulose, fruits having thick skins and large quantities 
of butter, bacon and ham. In cases of chronic constipation, and especially 
those complicated with mucous colitis, he claims that this diet permanently 
cures 50 per cent of all cases and that 28 per cent are probably improved 
or partially cured. 

The following foods contain considerahle cellulose and are recom- 
mended as adjuvants to the diet for the relief of chronic constipation: 
wholemeal bread of any description, eaten with plenty of butter, fat ham, 
bacon, treacle or marmalade; fat meat, bacon or ham for dinner, with a 
large proportion of dried peas, cabbage, savoy, lentils, Brussels sprouts, 
cauliflower, one or two eggs daily, poached, buttered or scrambled in pref- 
erence; turnips, parsnips, onions, okra, swedes, scorzonera and leeks. 
Dessert should consist of raw or cooked fruit, pears, strawberries, cut^ 
rants, apples, grapes, raspberries, gooseberries, loganberries, blackberries, 



MINERAL METABOLISM 341 

whortleberries and cranberries. Plenty of cream should be taken with 
cooked fruit. Sugar is allowed. Apples, apricots, plums, peaches and 
acid fruits in general also stimulate peristalsis by means of their organic 
acids. Oatmeal is of great value. The coarse meal is the best form, but 
oat-cakes and groats may also be eaten. Barley bread, pearly barley, 
buckwheat cakes and rye bread are useful. 

MINERAL METABOLISM 

The salt metabolism of disease is a most important subject. Few 
studies of the balances of the various salts in disease have as yet been 
made at the hands of biochemists, but the therapy of the future will un- 
doubtedly include the practical application of salt metabolism to the prin- 
ciples of nutrition. Wellman, who has given some thought to this sub- 
ject, finds that there was a greater loss of salts in fasting than was 
accounted for by the metabolism of the fleshy portion of the body. The 
principal loss was phosphorus pentoxid and calcium and magnesium oxids, 
in about the same proportion as contained in bone; and the skeletons of 
animals were found to have actually lost from 6 to 7 per cent of their 
weight. In many diseased conditions, there was present a lowered 
calcium excretion; for instance, in pleurisy with effusion, pneumonia, 
delirium tremens, and in typhoid and malarial fevers. Senator, in writ- 
ing on this subject, said that there was in pulmonary tuberculosis an excess 
of calcium excretion. In osteomalacia the calcium balance is also dis- 
turbed, more being excreted than is taken into the body. The calcium 
excretion is lessened by phosphoric acid, which fact might be of use in 
experimental therapeutics. It is said that castration restores the CaO 
equilibrium, which also influences the restoration of sulphur equilibrium. 
In myostitis ossificans, on the other hand, the calcium output is less than 
normal. In arthritis deformans there is a retention of lime salts. Also 
in endarteritis the excretion of calcium is hindered and one observer even 
claims to have obtained good results by the administration of salts, inz., 
lactic acid, sodium lactate, sodium citrate, sodium carbonate and sodium 
chlorid, which, according to his contention, aid in the excretion of calcium. 
It is probably unsafe to assume that a diet containing sufficient protein 
and energy necessarily furnishes sufficient calcium and other salts for the 
metalx)lism of the body. This point can only be settled by metabolism 
experiments in which a balance is made between the intake and the output. 
The most recent investigation and thorough research into this subject has 
been made by Sherman, Mettler and Sinclair (6). Space forbids an 

122 



342 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

extended review of their interesting experiment, but the table below ^ 
shows the average amount of calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and iron 
consumed daily in the various dietaries. 

THE MINERALS IN TYPICAL DIETARIES: DAILY QUANTITIES PER MAN 



Subjects of the Study 



Fuel 




Iron 

(Fe) 
(Gms.) 


Phos- 


Cal- 


Value 


Protein 


phoric 


cium 


(Calo- 


(Gms.) 


acid 


oxid 


ries) 




(Gms.) 


(Gms.) 


6,780 


179 


.035 


5.88 


1.27 


3,260 


123 


.021 


3.97 


1.09 


3,595 


123 


.019 


4.05 


1.22 


3,305 


112 


.019 


3.44 


.90 


3,545 


108 


.021 


3.53 


1.15 


2,780 


106 


.016 


3.64 


1.42 


3,180 


102 


.017 


3.92 


1.69 


4,060 


97 


.017 


3.58 


.90 


2,820 


95 


.019 


3.56 


.83 


3,085 


94 


.016 


2.73 


.49 


3,280 


91 


.015 


2.82 


.83 


3,330 


85 


.015 


2.88 


.97 


2,325 


84 


.014 


2.41 


.47 


2,525 


83 


.013 


2.40 


.50 


4,955 


80 


.012 


3.25 


.21 


2,440 


77 


.012 


1.52 


.40 


2,430 


71 


.012 


2.27 


.50 


3,560 


66 


.011 


2.08 


.46 


1,500 


54 


.009 


1.84 


.68 


2,240 


44 


.007 


2.05 


.08 



Mag- 
nesium 

oxid 
(Gms.) 



Maine lumbermen 

School superintendent's family, 
Chicago 

Students' Club, University of Ten- 
nessee 

Decorator's family, Pittsburgh 

Farmer's family, Connecticut 

Teacher's family, Indiana 

Teacher's family. New York City . 

Mechanic's family, Tennessee 

Farmer's and mechanic's families, 
Tennessee 

Glass-blower's family, Pittsburgh. 

Lawyer's family, Pittsburgh 

Women Students' Club, Ohio 

Lawyer's family. New York City.. 

Laborer's family, Pittsburgh 

Negro family, Alabama 

Laborer's family, Pittsburgh 

Laborer's family. New York City.. 

Farm Students' Club, Tennessee. . 

Sewing-woman's family, New York 
City 

Very poor negro family, Alabama . 



1.21 

.55 

.63 
.48 
.55 
.44 
.54 
.72 

.59 
.36 
.40 
.67 
.30 
.34 
.74 
.19 
.29 
.34 

.23 

.52 



Tachau(7), who has done much experimental work in salt metabolism, 
holds that the catabolism of easily burned carbohydrates often furnishes 
too much heat. Then, unless the "windows are opened, the house may get 
too warm," or they may, in too large quantities, be incompletely burned 
and thereby produce substances which will seriously interfere with the 
protoplasm (cellular) chemical processes (cellular asphyxia). The split 
products of both fats and carbohydrates may indeed menace the body, and 
the lack or overabundance of the mineral salts may surely tend to change 
the reactions of the living cells. 

If the results of experiments are correctly interpreted, we find that 



From Bull. 227, Exp. Sta., U. S. Dept. Agric. 



MINERAL METABOLISM . 343 

the ''living organism may be regarded as a highly unstable chemical sys- 
tem which tends to increase itself continuously under the average of the 
conditions to which it is subject; it undergoes disintegration as a result 
of any variation from this average" (8). With the lights before us, there 
is no reason to charge any harmful results to starch itself. "It is only 
when ingested in excessive amounts for long periods of time that harm 
results, and this is due not so much to the starch as to the attendant depri- 
vation of other foodstuffs, protein, hydrocarbons and orgraiic mineral 
matter" (9). If an animal is allowed a liberal, well-balanced dietary, con- 
sisting of protein, fats, carbohydrates and water with no organic mineral 
salts, it will die more quickly than if it received no food at all (10). For 
this reason, the importance of salts has been extensively dwelt upon (see 
Volume I, Chapter IX, Volume II, Chapter VIII) by various workers, 
but no one has shown in simpler way, or a more convincing form, the 
reasons for the value of salts in the economy than Fischer (11). "The 
great importance of the organic mineral salts in the human organism is 
due to their effects upon the physical condition of the proteins of the 
body. It is true they furnish practically no energy and yet are essential." 
Schaefer(12) has said that "the chemistry and physics of the living 
organism are essentially the chemistry and physics of the nitrogenous 
colloids," and Guyer(13) voiced the opinion that what we call protoplasm 
is really an aggregate of colloids, holding water for the most part, in 
which are contained certain salts and non-electrolytes. 

Electrolytic Properties of Salts. — Water forms a large percentage of the 
substance of the cell, and is essential for its existence as providing the 
medium wherein those chemical processes which constitute metabolism 
take place. This medium is a dilute solution of sodium chlorid in which 
the molecule of the salt has become dissociated into its free constituents 
or ions — sodium and chlorin. These, charged respectively with negative 
and positive electricity, are what are termed cath-ions and an-ions. 

These ions act as independent particles and by means of their powers 
of electric attraction and repulsion are the forces which directly cause 
bodily chemical changes. The presence of salts in the cells and their con- 
dition of dissociation or ionization are matters of great practical interest, 
because, in the first place, as regards the very ordinary salts, the phe- 
nomena of endosmosis and exosmosis are largely due to their presence in 
the cell, and also because the protein molecules only manifest their activity 
in a dilute saline solution under the conditions of ionization therein. 

These salts, it seems, are of inestimable value, because they change the 
affinity of the protoplasm for water, so that at one time when there is 



344 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

relative lack of salts the protoplasm loses water and at another time it 
absorbs water and with it food materials. Without doubt, the salts of the 
foods are the agents which control to a large extent the secretion and 
absorption, but it must not be forgotten that the formation of salts enters 
into the regulation of neutrality in the body ; but that is only a part of 
the problem of secretion and absorption, which was fully considered in 
Volume I, Chapters VI and VII. 

Sodinm Chlorid. — The importance of sodium chlorid in the diet was 
considered in Volume I, Chapter XI, where we learned that it "protects 
protein substances from disassimilation," i.e., it produces assimilation, 
and its use from this viewpoint is economical. The sodium chlorid con- 
tent of the body is of great importance and what might be tenned sodium 
chlorid equilibrium is maintained. In normal individuals, if sodium 
chlorid is partaken of too liberally, there is an increase in the elimination, 
and if the amount is partaken of sparingly there is a diminution in the 
output; but a certain amount, about 2 gi*ams per day, must be partaken 
of to make up for the daily loss. Bunge considers the presence of sodium 
chlorid essential to prevent the toxic effects of potassium. There is no 
» question but that it plays an important part in the nutritive exchange 
between the cells and the plasma and stimulates the f^xeretion of waste 
products by the kidneys. Exclusion of common salt from the food leads 
to dehydration of the tissues, and this is the basis of the salt-free dietary. 
Salt is found in varying quantities in all foodstuffs, and the daily require- 
ment is from 15 to 20 grams. The presence of an abnormal amount of 
sodium chlorid in the blood and tissues is one of the causes of edema. 

The amount of salt consumption per capita per diem for the Ameri- 
can people is more or less an unsettled question, since medical literature 
contains no statistics on the question. According to Archard the average 
consumption of salt by the French people is 300 grains per day. 

According to United States Army regulations, the allowance for the 
soldier is about 300 grains daily, which is practically a large heaping table- 
spoonful. We may, therefore, take the soldier's allowance as a criterion 
for the amount used by the American people. Physiologists tell us that 
95 per cent of the salt ingested is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. 
Then, of the 300 grains consumed daily by the average American, 285 
grains are excreted and cast out of the body as foreign material as rapidly 
as the organs of excretion can accomplish the task. Can this large excre- 
tion of salt be carried on daily for years with impunity? The history of 
salt-using nations leads us to ask the question : If something is transpiring 
that may make them the unhealthiest animals in iexistence, since daily 



MINERAL METABOLISM 345 

repeated exliaustion of glandular organs hy exosmosis tends to, logically, 
and practicallv does produce the very condition of glandular torpidity that 
alllicts mankind ? 

The retention of sodium chlorid in the tissues is due to one of the 
following causes: (a) the kidneys may be unable to excrete it, or (&) it 
forms chemical combination with the cells. According to some authorities, 
this combination occurs in the preliminary stages of edema when the cells 
become saturated with water and the chlorid begins to accumulate in the 
surrounding fluids. Whether this explanation is satisfactory or not, this 
much is known. Marie argues that, when water is retained in the tissues, 
it requires the presence of sodium chlorid to balance the osmotic pressvire 
of the salt in the blood (see Volume I, Chapter VII, Osmosis and Diffu- 
sion). The greater the amount of water retained in the tissues the more 
sodium chlorid will be accumulated therein, and the less will be excreted 
by the kidneys. In Bright's disease, for instance, where the kidneys are 
unable to excrete salt even when diuresis has been established, it has be- 
come the custom of clinicians to reduce the intake of common salt with a 
view of relieving the kidneys of the extra work of excreting it. The indica- 
tion, then, for a salt-free diet is where there is failure of compensation 
characterized by diminution in the excretion of water. The diseased con- 
ditions in which it has been found beneficial and practical to withhold 
sodium chlorid are dropsy from cardiac, renal or hepatic diseases, obesity, 
diabetes insipidus and epilepsy. A salt-free diet is also useful in chronic 
parenchymatous nephritis with edema or dropsy, and granular kidney 
when there is a failure of compensation. 

SALT-FREE DIET. — In selecting foods for salt-free diet, it is unneces- 
sary that it should be absolutely salt-free, besides it is almost impossible 
to prepare food quite free from it. The table on page 346 shows the per- 
centage of sodium chlorid in raw and cooked foods, taken largely from an 
article by H. Strauss (14) on the best method of reducing the amount of 
salt in the diet : 

In selecting articles of food for a rigid salt-free diet, an attempt 
should be made to keep the amount of sodium chlorid down to between l^/o 
to 2 grams per day, which will mean the exclusion or reduction of the 
allowance of meat, fish and meat broths. According to Tibbies (4) : 

The proteins should be derived from milk, eggs, chicken cooked without salt, 
tripe, fresh-water fish, cheese made without salt, and bread made without salt. 
Milk can be taken alone or with eggs, in the form of custard, in puddings with 
rice, sago, oatmeal, etc. Eggs can be taken in many ways without the addition of 
salt — e.g., custards, milk puddings, poached eggs, boiled eggs, omelettes; the latter 



346 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

can be seasoned with sugar instead of salt. Eggs can also be taken in "cream," 
souffles and sauces. Jellies made of gelatin or isinglass and meat jelly are permis- 
sible. The fats should be derived from milk, eggs, unsalted butter, fat meat eaten 
without salt, cheese made without salt, cream cheese and salad-oil. Carbohydrates 
may be obtained from sugar, treacle, golden sirup, jam, marmalade, bread made 
without salt, milk puddings without butter, blanc mange, jelly, milk sauces, fruit 
and vegetables. Bread and pastry made without salt are not unpleasant when 
eaten with stewed fruit, jam, marmalade and unsalted butter. Vegetables should 
be allowed ad libitum, because they can be made the vehicle of flour and fat in the 
form of "white sauce." It is recommended that all vegetables should be cooked in 
plenty of water, with a minimum of salt, thereby reducing the proportion of in- 
organic constituents. No salt must be used when cooking or eating- the food, except 
the small amount absolutely necessary to give flavor to potatoes, cabbages and 
other green vegetables, and the salt must be put into the process of diffusion. The 
absence of flavor may be obviated to a great extent by a careful employment of 
spices, condiments such as mint, thyme, parsley, marjoram, savory, bay-leaf, chut- 
ney, horseradish sauce, tomato sauce, mustard, nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, va- 
nilla, lemon, cocoa, chocolate and coffee, and in some cases a small amount of 
pickles, such as red cabbage, onion or cauliflower. The liquids allowed are milk, 
whey, buttermilk, weak tea, cereal or fig coffee, lemonade, fruit juice and aerated 
waters, or a small amount of wine or spirit and water. 

THE PERCENTAGE OF SODIUM CHLORID IN FOODS 



Raw food 



Per cent 



Cooked foods 



Per cent. 



Unsalted butter 

Yolk of eggs 

Fruit, not more than . 

Meat, unsalted 

Vegetables and salads 
Cereals and legumes. . 

Milk 

Eggs 

White of eggs 

Salted butter 

Cheese 

Caviar 



.02 

.02 

.06 

.10 

.10 

.01-. 10 

.15-.18 

.14 

.19 

1.00 

1.5-2.5 

6-7 



Poached eggs 

Fruit, usually less tlian 

White bread 

Brown bread 

Cauliflower 

Cabbage 

Mashed potato 

Roast beef 

Beef steak 

Buttered eggs 

Omelettes 

Asparagus 



.5 

.5 

.48-.07 

.75 

.5-.9 

.5-.9 

.5-1.0 

1.9-2.8 

3.0 

2.4 

2.7 

2.7-3.5 



Moderate variations in the amount of salt ingested have no significant 
effect upon the protein metabolism. Large amounts increase the quantity 
of protein catabolized, and, through overstimulating the digestive tract, 
may alsc interfere with the absorption and utilization of the food. 

Below we append a few examples of diets containing not more than 
two grams of salt (Tibbies) ; 



MINERAL METABOLISM 347 

(a) Balint prescribed: Milk, IJ^ to 2% pints; butter, 13^ ounces; three eggs; salt- 

less bread, 93^ to 123^ ounces, and weak tea or coffee. Calories, 2,300 to 2,400. 

(b) Archard and Widal drew up the following series of diets : 

(1) Potatoes, 35 ounces; meat, 10^ ounces; butter, 1^ ounces; rice, 43^ 

ounces; protein, 98 grams. Calories, 2,295. 

(2) Saltless bread, 7 ounces; meat, 14 ounces; butter, 3 ounces; sugar, 33^ 

ounces; protein, 117 grams. Calories, 3,037. 

(3) Saltless bread, 7 ounces; potatoes, 103^ ounces; rice, 33^ ounces; sugar, 

33^ ounces; butter, 1 ounce; protein, 33 grams. Calories, 1,891. 

(4) Milk, 2 pints; two eggs; meat, 10 ounces; flour, 2 ounces; sugar, 1^ 

ounces; butter, 1^ ounces; protein, 125 grams. Calories, 2,292. 

From the above table it will be seen that the dietary can be varied so 
that the consumption of protein will vary but little from the standard 
advocated in these pages. The following dietary will possibly be accept- 
able by most Americans : 

Breakfast: 

Oatmeal porridge; saltless bread and butter; one or two eggs (poached or but- 
tered); raw egg-and-miUc; fresh- water fish, eaten with lemon juice or vinegar. 
Jam, marmalade, tomatoes, or other fresh fruit; tea or cereal; coffee made 
with water or milk. 

Midday Meal: 

Vegetable soup; saltless bread; cow-heel, tripe, unsalted tongue, fresh meat or 
fowl. Fish may be taken once or twice a week, with mayonnaise sauce, white 
sauce, or bread sauce. Milk puddings; cream; custard, junket; blanc mange; 
jelly, stewed fruit, salt-free biscuits, or crackers. Salt-free cheese. Green 
vegetables, kidney or snap beans, vegetable marrow, spinach, scorzonera, 
celery, cauliflower, and potatoes, all cooked without salt, or the minimum 
required to give flavor. 

5 ■p.m.: 

Tea; with salt-free bread and butter; cakes, honey, marmalade, and other con- 
fections. 

Evening Meal: 

Any article from list for the midday meal or breakfast. 

Bunge(15) records extended and interesting observations and discus- 
sion upon the relation of diet to the craving for salt, and concludes that 
it is possible for one to live on a diet largely vegetarian, without the addi- 
tion of salt, yet on such a diet one should have a strong disinclination to 
partake freely of vegetables rich in potassium, such as potatoes. 

The use of salt enables us to employ a greater variety of the earth's products 
as food than we could do without it. 

But according to Bunge : 

We are accustomed to take far too much salt with our viands. Salt is not only 
an aliment; it is also a condiment and easily lends itself, as such things do, to 
abuse. 



348 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

Sodium and chlorin equilibriuiii can apparently be» maintained on 
less than one-fourth the amount of salt ordinarily consumed. Sodium 
chlorid partaken of with the diet passes out of the body through the 
kidneys without undergoing any chemical changes ; the rate of excretion 
adapts itself to the rate of intake within wide variations. 

According to Goodall and Joslin(16), when no salt is taken, the rate 
of excretion falls rapidly to a point where the daily loss is extremely 
slight. In one of their experiments upon a salt-free diet, the chlorin 
excretion upon successive days was as follows: 

1st day 4.60 grams chlorin 7th day 0.46 grams chlorin 

2nd day 2.52 « « 8th day 0.40 « 

3rd day 1.88 " " 9th day 0.26 « 

4th day 0.87 « « 10th day 0.22 " « 

5th day 0.69 " " 11th day 0.22 « 

6th day 0.48 « " 12th day 0.17 « « 

13th day 0.17 grams chlorin 

Potassium Chlorid. — Potassium chlorid is next in importance to sodium 
chlorid. It is a predominant salt in the muscular tissues, and, like sodium 
chlorid, is a common ingredient of nearly all the tissues and fluids of the 
body. The acid and neutral carbonates and phosphates of sodium and 
potassium exert their greatest importance in regulating the reaction of 
the digestive secretion and of the urine. Sodium is required in the body 
for the proper constitution of its fluids, potassium for the construction of 
cells and especially, perhaps, of the red blood cells and the muscles. 

Clinical experimentation has emphasized the fact that young animals 
and children deprived of potassium salts in the foods do not develop good 
muscles. Foods derived from the vegetable kingdom furnish the richest 
supply 0^ potassium-bearing salts, by three or four times, while foods from 
the animal kingdom contain a larger percentage of the sodium salts. If 
potassium chlorid is substituted for sodium chlorid in the food, various 
disturbances arise, owing to the deficiency of the sodium salt. The tissues 
of the body retain common salt most tenaciously, and when food is ingested 
which is low in this element, it gradually disappears from the urine. 
When the supply of common salt is below the body requirement, the 
elimination of chlorid in the urine decreases. When there is a lack of 
sodium chlorid as compared with potassium chlorid in the food, potassium 
combinations replace sodium combinations in the body and new combina- 
tions of sodium and potassium are formed and excreted in the urine. 
Human beings who consume a large amount of potatoes or other vegetables 
rich in potassium salts should of necessity partake freely of common salt, 
not merely as a condiment, but as an essential part of the food. 



MINERAL METABOLISM 349 

Low Calcium and High Calcium Diets. — We learned, when studying 
mineral salts in the bodj and in foods (Volmne I, Chapter XI), that 
the calcium salts are of value chiefly from their importance in the com- 
position of the bones and teeth, as well as in many of the tissues of the 
body, more particularly with cell grow^th and development. The bones 
and tissues of young growing animals, and children as well, require and 
contain a larger percentage of earthy salts than older ones. 

Calcium is taken into the body in organic forms through the ingestion 
of milk, yolk of egg, and cereals, and in inorganic forms chiefly in drink- 
ing water, such as the carbonates, sulphates and phosphates. Both forms 
are more or less readily absorbable, depending in a measure upon what 
salts are taken with it. The minimum amount of lime by which calcium 
equilibrium may be maintained ranges from 1 to IY2 grams per day for 
the average sized adult. There seems to be great variation in the quanti- 
ties by which a calcium diet may be established ; 5 to 10 per cent of that 
ingested is excreted in the urine, while the remainder is found in the feces, 
whether unabsorbed or absorbed and then eliminated in the intestine. 
The amount of lime eliminated through the kidney varies greatly — prob- 
ably does not average much over one-tenth of that taken in the food. The 
fact that the greater part of the calcium ingested in food reappears in the 
feces has often been interpreted as meaning that the requirement of the 
body for calcium is low, and the absorption of calcium from the food is 
poor. It must not be lost sight of, however, that the calcium found in the 
feces comes from the various organs and tissues of the body as well as from 
the food. The elimination of calcium from the food through the intes- 
tinal wall has been proved. The elimination of lime salts through the 
intestinal wall continues in fasting, and constitutes the principal way in 
which lime is lost from the body whenever the food supplies contain 
insufficient lime for equilibrium. The calcium excretion in the urine 
may be increased by the ingestion of large quantities of water, and by 
the administration of dilute hydrochloric acid ; and again, it may be in- 
creased by the administration of lactic acid and sodium lactate. There is 
a loss of lime over that taken into the body in such diseased conditions as 
osteomalacia, pernicious anemia, advanced tuberculosis and in diabetes. 
This is to some extent associated with phosphate elimination. On the 
other hand, in arteriosclerosis, the excretion of lime is deficient. If, on a 
given diet, the calcium is low, the loss will greatly exceed the intake. If, 
on the other hand, the diet contains excessive amounts of calcium, some 
of the lime will be retained in the body and apparently stored up in the 
bones, though it may not produce symptoms. 



350 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

Voit experimented on a pigeon for a period of twelve mouths, giving 
it a diet poor in calcium, vi^ithout observing any deleterious effects attrib- 
utable to the diet. But when the bird was killed and dissected, there was 
found marked wasting of lime salts from the bones of the skull and 
sternum, which were so soft as to be perforated with ease. However, the 
long bones, those concerned in locomotion, were still sound. The injuri- 
ous effect of foods containing insufficient lime is more noticeable in grow- 
ing than in full grown animals. Abnormal weakness, flexibility of the 
bones will be noticed (like rickets in children). Puppies fed with lean 
and fat meat only develop rickets, while control puppies from the same 
litter receiving the same food with an additional allowance of bones to 
gnaw upon develop normally. 

From the above, it is apparent that the growing skeleton needs an 
abundance of calcium. Before birth the lime requirement of the child is 
satisfied through the maternal blood, and for many months afterward, 
through the mother's milk, which is relatively rich in calcium. The 
weakening of the bones and the disintegration of the teeth during preg- 
nancy and lactation is largely due to the amount of calcium going to 
the child in utero and during lactation in the secretion of milk. After 
weaning and throughout early childhood, there are apt to be frequent dis- 
turbances of the absorption and metabolism of lime, due, in some in- 
stances, to disorders of digestion, in other cases, to deficiency of lime in 
the nutrients ingested by the child. To prevent this fluctuation, so as 
not to interfere with the steady growth of the child, it is imperative that 
the food furnish a liberal supply of calcium. Under the most favorable 
conditions, a rapidly growing child will need and consume more bone- 
making material in proportion to its total food than is required by men 
who serve as subjects for metabolism experiments. For this reason, among 
others, lime water is added to the various artificial foods given during 
infancy and early childhood. Unless a very "hard" water is used for 
drinking purposes, it is unlikely that the lime from this source will sup- 
ply more than a very small part of the calcium required, so that there 
should be great attention given to the choice of such foods as will increase 
the calcium content of the dietary. 

The table on page 351 gives the calcium content of a number of staple 
articles of food. 

A study of the table on page 353 will show that there are enormous dif- 
ferences in the calcium percentage of different food products, milk being so 
rich in calcium that the quantity necessary to produce 400 calories contains 
1 gram of lime. In order to get the same amount of lime from round steak 



MINERAL METABOLISM 



351 



and white bread, it would be necessary to consume enough to furnish 
10,000 calories. 

A low calcium diet is recommended in many cases of arteriosclerosis, 
exerting, as is claimed, a beneficial effect by checking alimentary toxeraia, 
reducing blood pressure and increasing diuresis. The idea is, that to keep 
blood pressure low, lime salts should be eliminated from the diet as far as 
possible. In conditions of cardiac failure, lime salts are allowed, but 
when compensation is reestablished, their use should be discontinued. It 
should be pointed out, however, that it has not been proved that blood and 
tissues retain calcium during the course of arteriosclerosis. If at any 
time it is desirable to give a calcium-poor diet, it can be arranged from the 
following table : 

CALCIUM IN FOODS ^ 

Vegetables (Continued): Per cent 

Pumpkins 032 

Radishes 025 

Rhubarb 060 

Ruta baga (swedes) 103 

Spinach 064 

Tomato 019 

Turnips 0.87 

Vegetable marrow.. 0.32 

Watercress 259 



AL Foods: 

Meat 


Per cent 
002 


Eggs 


100 


Cream 


147 


Milk 


172 


Cheese 


1.240 


Bread 


021 


Flour: Fine 

Entire wheat. . . , 


028 

037 



Cornmeal : . . .009 

Rice 012 

Pearl barley.. 0.25 

Macaroni, vermicelli 028 

Oatmeal 078 

Vegetables: 

Asparagus 038 

Beans: Dried 215 

Fresh, string 073 

Beetroot 019 

Cabbage 058 

Carrots 077 

Celery 094 

Cucumber 028 

Greens, turnip tops 508 

Lettuce 425 

Onions 040 

Parsnips 076 

Peas, dried 137 

Potatoes 0.16 

Sweet 025 



Fruits: 

Apples Oil 

Apricots 021 

Bananas 009 

Blackberries 099 

Bilberries 045 

Cherries 026 

Cranberries 021 

Currants 046 

Dried 169 

Grapes 014 

Grapefruit 029 

Huckleberries 037 

Oranges 043 

Peaches 0.15 

Pears 018 

Pineapple 008 

Plums. 022 

Raspberries 072 

Strawberries 057 

Water-melons 018 



Magnesium Salts. — Magnesium is usually present in foods in much the 
same proportion as calcium. There are exceptions, however, to this rule, 



1 Bull, of Exper. Sta. No. 45, U. S. Dept. of Agric. 



352 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

for in milk, magnesium is less and in meat considerably more abundant 
than calcium, while in bread there is actually five times as much mag- 
nesium as calcium. Magnesium, however, is of much less importance to 
the body than calcium. Very little magnesium is absorbed from the food, 
and one-third of the intake is excreted in the urine and about two-thirds 
in the feces. 

The bones contain 99^ per cent of the entire calcium content of the 
organism, but only 71 per cent of the magnesium. On the other hand, 
the muscles contain more magnesium than calcium, but again there is in 
the blood more calcium than magnesium. The solubility of magnesium 
salts in the body fluids is greater than that of lime. Absorption of mag- 
nesium both in organic and inorganic combinations takes place from the 
intestinal canal. Experiments in which animals are given food with 
scanty lime content, but rich in magnesium, have demonstrated that while 
the bony structure resulting from such diet contains twice the normal 
amount of magnesium, the development of the osseous system is stunted. 
These data offer practical proof that lime cannot be replaced by mag- 
nesium. Since the magnesium salts are more soluble than the lime salts, 
they are eliminated in greater proportion than the latter by the kidneys. 
As a matter of fact, most of the absorbed magnesium is excreted in the 
urine, while the unabsorbed magnesium salts in the form of insoluble 
soaps are eliminated in the feces. The table on the opposite page shows 
comparative amounts of the lime and magnesium salts. 

Phosphorus — Phosphorus is essential for all cell life and its impor- 
tance as a building material in the body can scarcely be overrated. Wher- 
ever growth is most active, there ahso most phosphorus is found. It is a 
component part of all cell nuclei and is found abundantly in the boneS 
and in the central nervous system. "NMierever the building up of such a 
tissue is going on rapidly, a large supply of phosphorus in thei food is 
required. It is not surprising, therefore, to find that the development of 
young animals which are deprived of phosphorus is apt to be seriously 
impaired. The importance of a sufficient amount and a proper form of 
phosphorus in the food of growing children is to be emphasized ; and it is 
essential for the growth of new tissues that phosphorus should be stored 
in the body as well as nitrogen. Whenever there is a storage of nitrogen 
a corresponding storage of phosphorus is also found. The importance of 
phosphorus as a building material was shown by Bunge Avhen he dis- 
covered that the proportion of phosphorus, calcium and protein in the 
milk of animals is directly proportionate to their growth. The table given 
on page 354 very graphically emphasizes Eunge's discovery. 



MINERAL METABOLISM 



353 



APPROXIMATE AMOUNTS OF MAGNESIUM AND CALCIUM OXID IN 

FOOD MATERIALS^ 



Vegetabud Foods 


Ash 

in per cent 

of substances 


Magnesium 
in per cent 
of the ash 


Calcium 
in per cent 
of the ash 


Millet 


5.1 
4.9 

'6.67 

'2.3 

'2.5' 

0.27 

3.4 

2.6 

1.97 

2.3 

3.1 

5.0 

2.25 

0.4 

0.31 

6.4 

0.2 

2.03 

'8.8' 
11.6 
8.9 
6.4 
4.8 

0.4 ~ 
2.1 
3.1 
0.7 

0.4 
'5.4' 


25.8 

15.9 

14.9 

13.4 

13.0 

10.9 

10.3 

9.6 

8.7 

8.6 

8.1 

7.9 

7.0 

6.8 

2.5 

8.8 

5.5 

4.7 

6.3 

3.3 

8.8 

5.3 

2.9 

Trace 

3.7 

3.2 

3.5 

3.0 

5.8 

1.9 

6.5 

6.3 

4.8 

9.5 

8.3 

5.2 

Trace 

2.3 




Cocoa 


2.8 


Cornmeal 


6.3 


Rice 


0.8 


Nut kernels 


8.6 


Wheat flour 


2.2 


Buckwheat 


6.6 


Barley 


3.5 


Apples 


4.0 


Coffee extract 


3.6 


Peas 


5.1 


Rye flour 


1.02 


Oatmeal 


3.0 


Tea extract 


1.2 




0.8 ■ 


Grapes 


36.9 


Cherries 

Plums 


7.5 

4.9 




15.9 


Lemon juice .' . 


7.9 




12.5 


Spinach 


13.1 




27.9 


Cauliflower 


21.7 




12.6 


Kohlrabi 


10.2 


Radish 


8.8 


Cucumbers 


6.9 




12.2 


Lentils 


5.1 




8.6 


Schoten 


7.8 




36.1 


Poppy seeds 


35.1 




31.6 


Pears 


7.9 




14.2 


Carrots , 


5.6 



Animal Foods 








Beef 




15.2 

13.0 

5.0 

6.0 

20.0 


2.9 


Albumin of hens' eggs 


13.0 


Woman's milk 


24.3 


Yolk of egg 


38.0 


Cow's milk 


151.0 







1 From von Liebig and other sources. 



354 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 
IMPORTANCE OF PHOSPHORUS AS A BUILDING MATERIAL (Bunge) 





Time required 
to double the 
weight of a 
new born 
animal (Days) 


Milk of Mother Contains 




Protein 
per cent 


Ash 
per cent 


Lime 
per 1,000 


P2O. 
per 1,000 


Man 


180 
60 
47 
17 
10 
8 


1.6 
2.0 
3.5 
4.3 
6.5 
7.1 


.2 
.4 
.7 
.8 
.9 
1.3 


.328 
1.240 
1.600 
2.100 
2.720 
4.530 


.473 


Horse 


1.310 


Cow 


1.970 


Goat 


3.220 


Sheep 


4.120 


Dog 


4.930 







Rohmann(17), in studying this subject, asks the question; "What in- 
fluence have the inorganic phosphates on the construction of phosphorized 
proteins in the body?" In an experiment to answer this question, says 
Tibbies, he fed animals on a diet containing earthy phosphates and diets 
consisting of (a) phosphorized proteins (casein and vitellin), (6) non- 
phosphorized protein (edestin). In animals which subsisted on the 
former diet, there was a retention of .nitrogen and phosphorus in the body, 
while in animals fed on the latter no retention occurred. Ilis conclu- 
sion from these observations is that the body does not appear to have the 
power of building up the phosphorized proteins of the cells from the 
non-phosphorized proteins and inorganic phosphates. On the other 
hand, he concluded that the phosphorized proteins are built up from 
lecithin and non-phosphorized protein. From his observations, we m\ist 
look to the phosphorized organic constituents of the food for our supply 
of phosphorus, viz., nucleoproteins, phosphoproteins, nuclein, lecithin, 
phosphocarnic acid and glycerophosphoric acid found in the cellular ele- 
ments, particularly in the yolk of eggs, sweetbread, fish roe, the germ of 
cereals and legumes, and in casein. (For the amount of phosphorus con- 
tained in foods, see Volume I, Chapter XI, pages 271-272.) 

Bunge(18) has demonstrated the content of phosphorus pentoxid 
(PoOr) in 100 grams of dried food to be: egg yolk, 1.90 ; cow's milk, 1.80 ; 
beef, 1.83 ; peas, 0.90 ; wheat, 0.94 ; potato, 0.64 ; egg albumin, 0.20 grams. 
In his work along this line, Voit gives the following estimate of the 
amount of phosphorus in the various structures of a human body weigh- 
ing 154 pounds: 1,400 grams in the bones; 130 grams in the muscles, 
and 120 grams in the nervous system. The determination of the exact 
phosphorus requirement of the human organism is not an easy problem. 
Available data on this subject are even fewer than those dealing with 



MINERAL METABOLISM 355 

nitrogen. Sherman and Sinclair (19) have pointed out that the daily 
amount of phosphorus received by the body varies from 0.9 to 1.5 grams, 
this variation depending upon the amount of phosphorus in the food in- 
gested. Interesting and instructive as this work is, it is not exhaustive. 
But from these studies it may be inferred that a normal individual by 
training himself to exist on a low protein diet, or on a diet whose phos- 
phorus content exists almost exclusively in organic combination, may 
maintain phosphorus equilibrium on food containing about 0.9 grams of 
phosphorus or 2 grams of phosphorus pentoxid. But to maintain a nor- 
mal phosphorus equilibrium on an average unrestricted diet, it would 
seem that a daily intake of about 1.5 grams of phosphorus or 3.5 grams 
of phosphorus pentoxid is required. 

Iron Salts. — Iron is one of the mineral constituents of the diet which is 
always present in an organic form. It is largely excreted in the feces, 
which fact has led to great difficulty in attempting to estimate the usual 
amount of iron required. Roughly speaking, there are about 10 milli- 
grams of the metal contained in an ordinary mixed diet (15). This quan- 
tity may therefore be taken as sufficient to meet all physiological demands. 
It is difficult to estimate correctly the amount of iron contained in the 
different articles of food. In foods derived from the animal kingdom 
much depends on whether the animal was bled when slaughtered or not, 
while, with foods derived from the vegetable kingdom, it varies very 
greatly, depending largely upon the amount of iron in the soil in which 
the foods were grown. For the estimated amount of iron contained in 
different vegetable and animal foods, the reader is referred to Volume I, 
Chapter XI, page 269. Physiological chemists estimate that the blood (4) 
of an adult contains 3 grams of iron ; the liver, spleen, skin and hair con- 
tain smaller amounts. According to Nasse, the conglomerate masses in 
the spleen pulp of old horses contain about 5 per cent of iron, while 
Oidlmann estimated that the ash of the spleen contains from Y to 16 per 
cent of iron. The iron content of the blood in the form of hemoglobin 
amounts to about 0.04 per cent. The iron of the liver is stored in the 
cells as compounds of iron in nuclein and protein. Physiologists desig- 
nate two of these compounds as hepatin and ferratin, and the iron is 
either the ferric or ferrous oxid. The iron in the liver of a new-born 
animal is greater than that in the adult of the same species. Bunge 
teaches that the liver acts as a storage house for iron, which is subse- 
quently used to form the hemoglobin of the red blood corpuscles, Dele- 
piene coincides with this view. He even considers the liver as not only 
the storehouse of the nucleoprotein compounds containing iron, but that 



356 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 

the liver cells are capable of elaborating these compounds into new hemo- 
globin for the young red blood corpuscles, which he describes as the 
ferrogenic function of the liver and which he believes persists throughout 
life. The bile pigment is derived from hemoglobin, but is free from iron. 
Tibbies thinks this pigment is split off from the hemoglobin, while the 
iron-bearing nucleoproteins are stored in the cells of the liver. 

Considerable variations in professional opinion have arisen as to 
whether inorganic iron given as a drug for the cure of anemia and 
chlorosis is absorbed. Von Noorden and others believe that inorganic 
iron is absorbed and they hold that it is very efficiept in the treatment 
of these maladies. Hamburger and !Mordeu, on the other hand, believe 
that little or none of the inorganic preparations of iron is absorbed from 
the alimentary canal. Bunge believes that iron is of therapeutic value in 
the treatment of anemia and chlorosis. As Tibbies puts it: "Chlorosis is 
attended by considerable fermentation in the alimentary tract, whereby 
much sulphuretted hydrogen is evolved, and this gas fixes and prevents 
the absorption of organic compounds in the food which are normally 
made use of in the manufacture of hemoglobin." Should there be 
an excess of inorganic iron present, a large ]iroportion of the sul- 
phuretted hydrogen evolved will combine with such iron to form 
sulphid, and in this manner protect the organic iron combinations from 
destruction by the hydrogen sulphid (HoS). If a condition arises wherein 
the blood is deficient in iron it will scarcely be possible or practicable to 
make good such deficiency by ordering inorganic salts in the food. There 
are very few foods which contain much inorganic iron, although Stock- 
man and von Noorden believe that the inorganic iron contained in the 
food is absorbed and utilized in the production of hemoglobin. If for any 
reason the food is deficient in iron, it necassarily leads to a condition of 
anemia, which conclusion is supported by various experimental observa- 
tions. It is known that the blood of dogs fed with bread contains less iron 
than the blood of the same animals when they are fed upon meat; or 
even children, when they receive only the same proportion of iron per 
kilogram of body weight as is necessary for an adult. These tend to 
become anemic. 

Sulphur Salts. — Sulphur is present in foodstuffs almost entirely in 
organic combination, chiefly in proteins. The amount ])resent varies 
considerably, as shown in Volume II, Chapter IX, page 272. Sulphates 
are derived from sulphur contained principally in fibrin, egg albumin, 
the casein of milk, and from such vegetables as corn, turnips, cauliflower 
and asparagus. The knowledge at the present time of the advantages 



MINERAL METABOLISM 



357 



or otherwise of an increase or diminution of sulphur in the food is want- 
ing. Where food prepared with so-called alum baking powder is eaten, 
considerable sulphate may appear in the urine from this source. 

The inorganic constituents of food are of importance from the point 
of view, not alone of the individual ingredients, but of their relations to 
one another as well. As we have seen, even such elements as sodium and 
potassium, or calcium and magnesium, that are closely related in chemical 
properties, are not interchangeable in the animal economy, and, more- 
over, in some physiological functions are actually antagonistic (20). On 
the other hand, in some instances certain elements do to a degree replace 
other elements, as, for example, the sparing influence of calcium on iron 
metabolism as a result of which an abundance of calcium renders less the 
amount of iron necessary to maintain iron equilibrium. 

Acid-forming and Base-forming Elements of Diet. — ^Another important 
relation is that of the acid-forming and base-forming elements of the 
diet. It appears important that the base-forming elements of the 
food should be sufficiently abundant, largely, if not wholly, to neutralize 
the acids formed in catabolism, since otherwise there is a tendency to the 
production of a condition of acidosis, with the withdrawal of fixed alkalies 
from the blood and tissues and an increased fixation of ammonium salts 
whereby the ammonium is not transformed into urea. While it is not 
absolutely demonstrated that these conditions are immediately productive 
of disease, it must be regarded as physiologically wrong for man and 
correspondingly disadvantageous. Moreover, it is quite likely that in cer- 
tain pathological conditions {see Gout, Volume III, Chapter XII) the 
lack of base-forming elements is actually harmful. Sherman gives the 
following tables : 

FOODS IN WHICH ACID-FORMING ELEMENTS PREDOMINATE 



Estimated excess acid-forming 
elements equivalent to c.c. 
normal acid per 100 calories 



Beef, free from visible fat 

Eggs 

Round steak 

Oatmeal 

Wheat flour 

Wheat, entire grain 

Rice 

Bacon 

Com, entire grain (high protein) 



10 
9 

6.7 
3.2 
2.7 
2.6 
2.4 
1.0 
0.1 



123 



358 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN FOODS 
FOODS IN WHICH BASE-FORMING ELEMENTS PREDOMINATE 



Estimated excess base-forming 
elements equivalent to c.c. 
normal alkali per 100 calories 



Celery 

Cabbage 

Potatoes 

Prunes. 

Turnips 

Apples 

Milk 

Beans 

Peas 

Corn, entire grain (low protein). 



40 
10-13.6 
9-12 

7.9 
6.6-12.5 

5 

3.3 
2.9- 6.8 

1.9. 

0.8 



Starch, sugars, fats and oils do not ordinarily contain acid- or base- 
forming elements. 

Resume. — The older view of Wright (21), as to the relation of the diet 
to scurvy, is probably correct, so far as concerns its following a withhold- 
ing of a base-yielding diet, but, in view of the recent works on vitamines, 
it appears that it is not the mere absence of bases but of vitamines that is 
the causative factor. 

From the foregoing pages, the reader is able to gi'asp the great impor- 
tance of the functions of the mineral elements in the processes of metab- 
olism. Viewing their nature and importance, it is at once obvious that 
life could not endure if its complex mineral requirements were not auto- 
matically and constantly maintained in a proper adjustment. 

While highly developed processes of food manufacture and efficient 
world-wide transportation facilities give us the greatest opportunities for 
correct dietetics, yet there are important facts bearing on the relation of 
food materials and the metabolism of mineral nutrients which open the 
way to greater injudiciousness and positive abuse in dietetics than could 
have been possible in our more primitive days. The net result emphasizes 
an obligation on our part to prepare a defense of knowledge against the 
misfortunes of plenteous prosperity. In order to emphasize sufficiently 
the importance of mineral metaholism in the processes of nutrition just 
considered in the preceding pages, we will outline briefly some of the 
functions of the mineral elements in animal metabolism : 

The ash constituents enter the body and take part in metabolism as 
essential constitutents of organic material, and become inorganic only as 
the organic matter is oxidized. 

They conduct nerve impulses, and play a leading role in the general 
process of cell stimulation. 



MINERAL METABOLISM 359 

They govern the coutraction of the muscles, including those of the 
heart. 

Thej compose the central agency for the maintenance of neutrality 
in the blood. 

They enter into the composition of every living cell. 

They compose supporting structures. 

They assist in the coordination of the digestive processes. 

They activate enzymes, and through their control of the chemical 
reaction of the blood and tissues they govern enzyme action. 

They unite with injurious products of metabolism and render them 
harmless or useful. 

As catalyzers they may alter the speed of reactions, and the rate of 
metabolism generally, as measured by oxygen consumption. 

Through their effects on osmotic pressure they govern the movement 
of liquids, and maintain the proper liquid contents of the tissues. 

Through their control of the imbibition of water by the colloids they 
govern absorption and secretion. 

Through their control of the affinity of the blood for gases they govern 
respiration. 

Finally, they control the state of solution, precipitation, mechanical 
aggregation, chemical association and ionization of the colloids which 
compose living tissue. 



REFERENCES 

1. Benedict, A. L. Golden Rules of Dietetics. 

2. Hall^ I. Walker. Chemistry and Physiology of Food Purins. 

3. BuRiAN and Schurr. Pfluger's Archiv, 1900. 

4. TiBBLES, William. Food in Health and Disease. 

5. Denis, W. The Effect of Ingested Purins on the Uric Acid Con- 

tent of the Blood, J. Biol. Chem., 1915, vol. xxiii, p. 147. 

6. Sherman, Mettler and Sinclair. Exper. Sta., U. S. Dept. of 

Agric, Bull. No. 22Y. 

7. Taciiau. Biochem. Ztschr., 1914, vol. Ixvi, p. 253. 

8. Starling. Human Physiology, 1912, p. 5. 

9. Abt. J. Am. Med. Assn., 1913, vol. Ixi, p. 1275. 
GifAFE. Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med., vol. cxiii, p. 1. 

10. Starling. Human Physiology, 1912, p. 724. 

11. Fischer. Edema and Nephritis, 1915. 



360 SCIENTIFIC FEEDING OF NITROGEN GOODS 

12. ScHAEFER. Science, 1912, vol. xxxvi, p. 289. 

13. GuYEB. Tr. Amer. Micros. Soc, 1911, vol. xxx, p. 145. 

14. Strauss, H. Zschr. f. phys. «. diatet. Therap., April, 1908. 

15. BuNGE. Physiological and Pathological Chemistry, chap. vii. 

16. GooDALL and Joslin. Tr. Assn. Am. Phys., 1908, vol. xxiii, pp. 

92, 106. 

17. RoHMANN. Pfliiger's Archiv, vol. Ixvii. 

18. BuNGE. Loc. cit., p. 84. 

19. Sherman and Sincla^ib. Exper. Sta., TJ. S. Dept. Agric, Bull. 

No. 227. 

20. Sherman, H. C. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 

21. Wright. ■ On the Pathology and Therapeutics of Scurvy, Army 

Med. Reports, 1895. 



CHAPTEK XII 

DIET IN HEALTH 
WiNFiELD S. Hall, Ph.D., M.D. 

The destiny of nations depends upon the character of their diet. 

Dietotherapy — General Principles: Amount of Food Required; Distribu- 
tion of Meals; Composition of Meals; Influence of Diet on Constitu- 
tion and Health ; Influence of Diet on Character ; Influence of Diet on 
Races; Occupation and Diet; Climate and Diet. 

Diet Studies: Students' Clubs; Mechanics and Laborers; Standard and 
Actual Dietaries Compared; Negroes and Poor Mexicans. 

Use of Alcohol. 

Diet in Tropical Climates: General Considerations; Fruits and Vege- 
tables; Milk; Meats; Sweets; Diet and Disease; Conclusions. 

Alcohol and Beverages in the Tropics. 

DIETOTHERAPY— GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

Dietotherapy is the proper application of suitable food elements to 
secure a well-balanced alimentation necessary for the preservation of 
health and the maintenance of bodily strength and energy, or for their 
restoration during convalescence after having been impaired by disease. 
It goes without saying that the value of foods in health must be under- 
stood in order properly to appreciate their relative dietetic value in 
disease. 

When studying "The Chemical Constituents of the Body and of 
Foods" (Volume I, Chapter II), we learned that the human organism is 
composed of some twenty different universally distributed chemical ele- 
ments, of which the following are most essential : C, H, O, IST, S, P, CI, 
N^a, K, Fe, and Mag, combined in the most complex molecules, some 
of which contain many hundreds, even thousands, of atoms. We also 
learned, when studying the "Characters of the Proximate Principles of 

361 



362 DIET IN HEALTH 

Foods" (Volume I, Chapter III), that the chemical composition of the 
human body is not always an adequate guide to the selection of the essen- 
tial food elements, though it is an indisputable fact that food that is to 
nourish an infant's body and sustain it through childhood and puberty 
must contain these elements. However, it is quite impossible to feed 
human beings upon chemical elements — to be useful these must be fur- 
nished in certain suitable combinations. The table in Volume I, Chapter 
II, grai)hically shows the composition of foods. Many of these com- 
pounds during the process of digestion and assimilation (Volume I, 
Chapter VII) are transformed into other compounds which are peculiar 
to the human body. Even when food material has been adapted to the 
needs of the body by digestion, it still undergoes further chemical modi- 
fication before it can be taken up by the cells for their repair, or stored 
by them, or, by contact with them, be transformed into heat or muscular 
power. 

Thus we see that the human economy requires foods similar in com- 
position to its own substance for growth, development and repair, while 
it needs fuel foods from which to produce active energy for the work of 
the body. We have already studied these two phases of body require- 
ments — growth and repair on one side, and work on the other — and find 
that they make the basis for the classification of foods, as outlined in 
Volume I, Chapter IX. 

Man is an omnivorous animal and can subsist on either animal or 
vegetable foodstuffs, and derive force and bodily heat from any of them, 
and, as the body soon adapts itself to its food, very few rules need be 
formulated. People in the upper walks of life, as a rule, consume more 
protein and ingest less carbohydrates than do the working classes. The 
dietaries of public institutions are more liberal with allowances of carbo- 
hydrate foods than with protein, on account of economic advantages, but, 
as stated elsewhere (Volume II, Chapter IX), the protein from vege- 
tables, especially from beans, peas or lentils, can be secured at very reason- 
able prices and ought to be more universally used, especially when the 
prices of meats are prohibitive. 

Amount of Food Required — The amount of food necessary for a healthy 
individual depends upon his age, the amount of muscular activity he ex- 
pends, the climate (or the weather"), and certain other factors, such as the 
activity of one or more of the ductless glands, as well as on certain indefi- 
nite and little understood factors which we group together as "inherited." 
All physicians called upon to treat disorders incident to childhood are well 
aware of the enormous appetites of normal children who are active; but 



DIETOTHEKAPY— GENERAL PRINCIPLES 363 

they sometimes lose sight of the fact that the dosag© of milk, which is 
accepted for a six-months' child, is for the average hospital child and not 
for the normal, healthy, active child, which would grow faster on a more 
liberal allowance of food. Students of dietetics understand that what is 
needed during hot weather is sufficient food with a liberal allowance of 
water to counteract the heat liberated in burning the food. The value of 
peppers and other condiments in the tropics is that, given water enough, 
perspiration is stimulated and the more it is stimulated the more rapidly 
the body is cooled. 

The Relation of Height to Weight. — This is by no means a fixed 
ratio, as considerable variations may exist without indication of disease; 
on the other hand, any great disparity, other things being equal, shows 
that the balance of nutrition is disturbed, and in consequence the chances 
for longevity are lessened. Height is qualified by the adjectives : dwarf- 
ish, short, medium, tall; while the patient is described, from the weight 
point, as emaciated, thin, spare, medium, stout or obese. Insurance com- 
panies have adopted a general ratio of height to weight for different ages — 
with a minimum, average and maximum weight^ — which is graphically 
illustrated in the table on pp. 364-5. Changes in body weight varying 
from the normal, form, in most instances, a reliable index to the tendency 
of the malady ; progressive loss indicates an advance of the disease, while 
progressive increase in weight suggests a lessened activity of the disease. 
As a rule, individuals of moderate height and weight are best adapted to 
pass successfully through the ordinary trials of life and the extraordinary 
ordeals of disease, but the thin, "wiry" person may accomplish an enor- 
mous amount of work without excessive fatigue, and emerge triumphantly 
from a severe attack of illness. On the other hand, there are stout, hale 
and hearty individuals who refuse to grow thin, be worn out, or to degen- 
erate, but who hang on to .life in spite of serious, acute or debilitating 
disease. 

The food requirements for adults living under similar environments 
vary with the weight of the individual. The larger the body the more 
food will be required (see Volume II, Chapter IX), for, as has already 
been pointed out, the extent of the body surface influences in a measure the 
radiation of heat or energy, and the larger the surface the more food per 
kilo will be consumed. This has been tested experimentally, both in man 
and animals, and the conclusions reached are that the food must be pro- 
portional to the weight of the body and area of body surface. 

The dissipation of heat varies with the condition of rest or work. 
While at rest an individual weighing 154 pounds (70 kilos) during a 



364 



DIET IN HEALTH 



TABLE OF STANDARD HEIGHT AND WEIGHT AT VARYING AGES 

{Based upon an analysis of 74,162 accepted male applicants for life insurance, as reported 
to the Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors, 1897) 

(The figures above and below are 20 per cent over and under the average) 



Ages 


15-24 


25-29 


30-34 


35-39 


40-44 


45-49 


50-54 


55-59 


60-64 


65-69 






5 feet inches 


96 
120 
144 


100 
125 
154 


102 
128 
154 


105 
131 
157 


106 
133 
160 


107 
134 
161 


107 
134 
161 


107 
134 
161 


105 
131 
157 




5 « 1 « 


98 
122 
146 


101 
126 
151 


103 
129 
155 


105 
131 
157 


107 
134 
161 


109 
136 
163 


109 
136 
163 


109 
136 
163 


107 
134 
161 




5 " 2 « 


99 
124 
149 


102 
128 
154 


105 
131 
157 


106 
133 
160 


109 
136 
163 


110 
-138 
166 


110 
138 
166 


110 
138 
166 


110 
137 
164 




5 « 3 « 


102 
127 
152 


105 
131 
157 


107 
134 
161 


109 
136 
163 


111 
139 
167 


113 
141 
169 


113 
141 
169 


113 
141 
169 


112 
140 
168 


112 
140 
168 


5 « 4 « 


105 
131 
157 


108 
135 
162 


110 
138 
166 


112 
140 
168 


114 
143 
172 


115 
144 
173 


116 

145 
174 


116 
145 
174 


115 
144 
173 


114 
143 
172 


5 « 5 « 


107 
134 
161 


110 
138 
166 


113 
141 
169 


114 
143 
172 


117 
146 
175 


118 
147 
176 


119 
149 
179 


119 
149 
179 


118 
148 
178 


118 
147 
176 


5 « 6 « 


110 
138 
166 


114 
142 
170 


116 
145 
174 


118 
147 
176 


120 
150 
180 


121 
151 
181 


122 
153 

184 


122 
153 
184 


122 
153 
184 


121 
151 
181 


5 « 7 « 


114 
142 
170 


118 
147 
176 


120 
150 
180 


122 
152 

182 


124 
155 
186 


125 
156 

187 


126 
158 
190 


126 
158 
190 


126 
158 
190 


125 
156 
187 


5 « 8 « 


117 
146 
175 


121 

151 

181 


123 
154 
185 


126 

157 

188 


128 
160 
192 


129 
161 
193 


130 
163 
196 


130 

163 
196 


130 
163 
196 


130 

162 
194 


5 « 9 « 


120 

150 
180 


124 
155 
186 


127 
159 
191 


130 
162 
194 


132 
165 
198 


133 

166 
199 


134 

167 
200 


134 

168 
202 


134 

168 
202 


134 
168 
202 


5 « 10 « 


123 

154 
185 


127 
159 
191 


131 
164 
197 


134 
167 
200 


136 
170 
204 


137 
171 
205 


138 
172 
206 


138 
173 
208 


139 

174 
209 


139 
174 
209 


5 « 11 « 


127 

159 
191 


131 

164 
197 


135 

169 
203 


138 
173 
208 


140 
175 
210 


142 
177 
212 


142 

177 
212 


142 
178 
214 


144 

180 
216 


144 
180 
216 



DIETOTHERAPY— GENERAL PRINCIPLES 365 

TABLE OF STANDARD HEIGHT AND WEIGHT AT VARYING AGES— Con. 



Ages 


15-24 


25-29 


30-34 


35-39 


40-44 


45-49 


50-54 


55-59 


60-64 


65-69 








132 


136 


140 


143 


144 


146 


146 


146 


148 


148 


6 " inches 


165 


170 


175 


179 


180 


183 


182 


183 


185 


185 




198 


204 


210 


215 


216 


220 


218 


220 


222 


222 




136 


142 


145 


148 


149 


151 


150 


151 


151 


151 


6 " 1 « 


170 


177 


181 


185 


186 


189 


188 


189 


189 


189 




204 


212 


217 


222 


223 


227 


226 


227 


227 


227 




141 


147 


150 


154 


155 


157 


155 


155 


154 


154 


6 " 2 " 


176 


184 


188 


192 


194 


196 


194 


194 


192 


192 




211 


221 


226 


230 


233 


235 


233 


233 


230 


230 



period of twenty-four hours gives off 15 cubic feet of COg. Since 1 cubic 
foot of CO2 produced by combustion involves an expenditure of heat 
equivalent to 160 foot tons of energy, it follows that 15x160 (2,400) 
foot tons are required for the maintenance of normal temperature and 
the ordinary functions of the organism while the body is at rest. And 
since one calorie equals 1.54 foot tons of energy, 2,400 foot tons are 
equivalent to about 1,550 calories, i.e., 22.3 calories for each kilo of body 
weight. Playfair and Parkes conducted studies to determine the minimum 
food requirement and concluded that this amount of heat and energy 
would be furnished from the combustion in the body of dry albumin, fat 
and carbohydrate — barely yielding the "sustenance diet." 

Later investigations show that the amount of food required to supply 
the heat expended per kilo of body weight by an adult under various 
conditions, from absolute rest to strenuous activity or laborious work, 
ranges as follows : 

TABLE OF ADULT REQUIREMENTS PER KILO 

For sustenance only 23.0 calories 

During rest in bed 25.0 " 

Sedentary occupations 35.0 " 

Very light work 40.0 « 

Moderate work 42.0 " 

Laborious work 60.0 " 

Extra strenuous labor 120.0 " 

A normal individual free from digestive disturbances and physically 
lit, who ingests a well-balanced ration scientifically calculated according 
to his age, height, weight and area of body surface will, without question, 
maintain the normal ratio of weight for his age and height. 



366 DIET IN HEALTH 

AVhen the normal amount of food is consumed by a healthy individual, 
other things being equal, physiological growth will occur, but if food is 
ingested in too large quantities, or if the body is inactive, food above the 
actual requirements will be stored in the form of fat. Lack of exercise 
in such a case will tend to stoutness, for the "contented" person, as a rule, 
moves along the lines of least resistance ; his mind and muscles are oftener 
at ease, and so he burns less of his food and stores more than an active, 
energetic person. "Laugh and grow fat" is a physiologic truth, but, on the 
other hand, many adipose persons are impetuous, impatient and discon- 
tented, and, again, many are strenuously active. In such cases one of two 
things has happened : either they have inherited a type of metabolism which 
is not normal for the race, or something is wrong with the internal secre- 
tory organs, especially the pituitary, the thyroid, or the sex glands. The 
thin, lean, lanky individual is one who eats too little or exercises too much 
for the diet consumed, is nervous from some ductless gland disorder, or 
is just naturally "skinny." 

Distribution of Meals. — The early founders of this country, like the an- 
cient Greeks, partook of three meals daily: two light repasts, breakfast 
in the early morning, and supper at the close of the day ; and the principal 
meal, dinner, at mid-day, usually followed by an hour or two of rest. This 
custom still prevails in most agricultural districts. In the busy metro- 
politan centers the needs of modern activity have changed the distribu- 
tion of meals, and the full mid-day repast is now replaced by a light lunch, 
which allows, without the rest of the old regime, intellectual or muscular 
work almost immediately following, but which necessitates a substantial 
meal or dinner at six o'clock in the evening, several hours before retiring. 
This arrangement of meals, without being absolutely hygienic, appears 
fairly suitable. According to Gautier(l), the well-to-do English families 
of what is termed the middle class, and the German families in easy cir- 
cumstances, have breakfast at nine o'clock, dinner at two (this is the prin- 
cipal meal), tea at five, consisting of tea, coflFee, cocoa or beer, with bread, 
butter and cheese or ham, and lastly a light supper just before retiring. 

.Composition of Meals. — The composition of the meals, as pointed out in 
Volume II, Chapter VII, should vary with the nature of the occupation. 
A light but sufficient repast at the noon hour suits those who are occupied 
chiefly with office work or business activities; but for the workman or 
peasant who from six or seven o'clock in the morning to mid-day or one 
o'clock, has been engaged in strenuous, tiring exercise, the noon repast 
should be sufficiently liberal to allow him, not only to make good his losses, 
but also to provide him afresh with expendable energy. According to 



DIETOTHERAPY— GENERAL PRINCIPLES 367 

Pavlov, it is necessary to normal digestion, that food should be taken at 
regvilar intervals. He cautions against the ingestion of too large a meal 
at one time, which overloads the stomach and hinders digestion. 

Recent physiological experiments emphasize the fact that meat remains 
in the stomach several minutes (15 to 45) before pepsin is secreted, w^hich, 
without doubt, is a provision of Nature to allow the ptyalin of the saliva 
to transform some of the cooked starches into sugar, as well as to make 
an alkaline coating to the bolus of starchy food. Later the acidity of the 
gastric juice produced must be sufficient to excite, in the duodenum, the 
pancreatic and intestinal secretions. 

The inhabitants of the Polar regions subsist almost entirely upon 
food from the animal kingdom, which is rich in fat, the dwellers on the 
borders of the Frozen Sea — Laplanders and Greenlanders — feeding almost 
entirely on fish and the flesh and fat of seals, probably as much from in- 
stinct as from the impossibility of securing other food. The Arab, on the 
contrary, is satisfied with a few dates and a little couscous (2), the latter 
a kind of food used by the natives of Northern Africa, made from flour 
cooked with flesh and other ingredients, as the leaves of baobab. The 
Italian finds his macaroni quite sufficient, while the inhabitants of the 
intermediate zone use a ration well balanced with nitrogenous, fatty and 
carbohydrate foods. 

The annual consumption of meats in different countries may be of 
interest to the reader. In the United States the annual consumption per 
capita per annum is 172 pounds, or about one-half a pound per day for 
each individual, man, woman or child. As many women and children 
consume very little, there must, therefore, be a large number of men who 
ingest enormous quantities of meat. Gautier(l) points out that the Eng- 
lishman consumes 130 pounds per capita ; the Frenchman's annual con- 
sumption of meat is 86 pounds ; while the dweller in the City of Paris 
consumes 207 pounds ; the average consumption per capita in the larger 
towns in France is 158 pounds, while the peasantry can scarcely afford 
42 pounds per annum. According to this figure, the peasantry are com- 
pelled to subsist on about 26 grams of fresh meat per meal. The Aus- 
tralian is the greatest meat consumer of all, the annual consumption per 
capita being in the neighborhood of 240 pounds. 

When studying the subject of "Protein and Nutrition," * we found that 
the lowest protein demand was about 65 grams per day ; the quantity that 
the French peasant consumes, therefore, is insufficient for the workman 
and laborer who have most need of it. Gautier states that "even at the 

1 See Volume II, Chapter VII. 



368 DIET IN HEALTH 

present time meat is only, so to speak, a relish for the countryman. A 
townsman, on the other hand, generally eats more meat than agrees with 
him. We have seen that in Paris the alimentary principles of animal 
origin exceed 480 grams per day, 260 grams of which are meat, and this 
figure must at least be doubled for many unemployed townsmen." 

As the opium smoker feels the need of the drug when he does not have 
it, so the individual who accustoms himself to partaking excessively of 
animal foods misses them when he fails to consume the usual excessive 
quantity. In contrast with the large meat eater of easy circumstances, 
the peasant does not eat enough meat. His dietary is too exclusively 
vegetable and forces upon him a regular digestion of dishes of great 
volume — potatoes, green vegetables, fruits, etc. — which bring him only 
an insufficient supply of nitrogen. In this class it is common to find 
gastralgia, dyspepsia and enteritis. This unbalanced diet is fortunately 
offset, to a large extent, by strenuous exercise in the open air, ventilated, 
isolated, sunny dwellings, good rest at night, and sometimes in the summer 
months a siesta at noonday, with the minimum of inducements to intem- 
perance and vices which beset the city dweller ; but in spite of the great 
and many advantages of living in the open, the average life of the coun- 
tryman, according to Gautier(l), is shorter than that of a man in the 
middle class in the towns. Gautier's statement may be correct for French 
peasants, but the agricultural classes in this country outlive by many 
years the working men of the cities. 

Influence of Diet on Constitution and Health The influence of standard 

dietaries on constitution and health has been referred to already when 
considering the subject of "Protein and Nutrition." There was outlined 
the standard dietary for different occupations, founded principally on the 
experiments of Chittenden and other workers in this field of research. 
This dietary provides for the physiological needs and losses of the system 
in quantities and kinds of foods best suited for a healthy adult whether 
engaged in strenuous exercise or living a more or less inactive life. On 
the other hand, a careful examination of the tables in Volume II, 
Chapter V, will show the quantity of protein, fat and carbohydrate 
necessary to provide for the requirements of calorification, which 
varies greatly according to the temperature of the surrounding atmos- 
phere. Gautier estimates that a Frenchman, in relative repose, 
needs from 80 to 82 grams of protein (one-half of whicli should be 
furnished by animal food and the other half by vegetable food). 
He considers this sufficient, and if the daily diet is increased, as 
often happens in Paris, to 102 grams of protein, the difference of 20 or 



DIETOTHEKAPY— GENERAL PRINCIPLES 369 

more grams constitutes a reserve supply. The day laborer who lives from 
hand to mouth, for economic reasons, receives only the necessary amount 
of food for daily wear and tear, and, as a consequence, is constantly in 
danger of a deficiency. If he happens to be called upon to carry out a 
strenuous task, if any of the bodily functions be slightly disturbed, and if 
his sleep is not sufficient for repair, these causes, and many others besides, 
by diminishing the receipts or increasing the expenditures, will augTnent 
the deticiency, and if there are no storage reserves to meet this condition, 
it will have to be supplied by combustion of the substance of the organs. 
Henceforth, a part of the mechanical work, or even the maintenance of 
animal temperature, will be affected. If the store of fats is exhausted, 
the bodily functions will destroy some portion of the proteins of the tissues 
in place of the sugars or the defaulting fats. In order to prevent such 
deficiencies and losses — and not to be driven to heat the house by burning 
the furniture-^the system must have a reserve at its disposal, namely that 
created by ingesting slightly more at each meal than is required for body 
metabolism. The old adage, that we should "lay by something for a rainy 
day," is as true in nutrition as in finance. It is necessary that the gain 
of to-day should suffice to compensate for the loss of to-morrow, and that, 
by means of a sufficient surplus beyond the daily requisite allowance, it 
should be possible to provide not alone for mobile equilibrium, but to pre- 
pare the system so that the losses will never exceed the supply. This is 
especially important with reference to proteins and organic mineral salts. 

From the above it may be seen how important it is to eat slightly more 
than the minimum requisite daily ration. At the same time it must be 
borne in mind that this excess may in turn become dangerous if carried 
beyond certain limits. The proteins, if not utilized by means of mechan- 
ical labor, by powerful work of the lungs and skin, by a sufficient combus- 
tion and normal radiation of heat, will, when all their waste accumulates in 
the organism, accentuate a predisposition to obesity, arthritis, and diseases 
of the skin, and augment visceral congestion and neuropathic conditions. 

A well-balanced dietary for the working man engaged in strenuous 
occupations in the open air would be a dangerous ration for the sedentary 
citizen who expends but little muscular energy, or for the artist and stu- 
dent who devote themselves entirely to intellectual occupation (3). lu 
young people during adolescence, or in those individuals whose organs, 
whatever be their age, have largely preserved their normal activity, a 
slight indulgence beyond the normal requirements of a well-balanced 
dietary will exert no other effect than necessitating a greater activity of 
the excretory organs — lungs, liver, skin and kidneys. But this will not 



370 DIET IN HEALTH 

apply to those whose constitution or bodily habits are defective to begin 
with. In such individuals a dietary in excess of actual requirements will 
daily accentuate decay; hepatic or pulmonary congestion, arteriosclerosis, 
degenerative conditions of the kidneys and of various other organs will in- 
crease, and there will be eventually established, little by little, if not dis- 
ease, at any rate a predisposition to it(l). It will readily be seen, there- 
fore, that the ingested aliment should be well balanced and in proportion 
to our needs, and regulated not by natural appetite alone, but by reason, 
aided, when necessary, by the advice of those who have devoted much time 
and energy to working out these intricate problems. 

Influence of Diet on Character.- — The character of individuals is un- 
doubtedly more or less influenced by diet. If a certain alimentation 
influences the general health by reason of its abundance or insufficiency, 
why may it not act still more by its nature ? It is a universally accepted 
fact that the most robust, active and aggressive people are great meat 
eaters. People whose chief subsistence is composed largely of carbohy- 
drate foods — ^vegetables and fruits — are nearly always peaceful, as, for 
instance, the inhabitants of Central Asia, with whom rice and vegetables 
with a little pork or fish form the principal articles of diet (4). We cannot 
help coupling these facts with the statement previously made that carniv- 
orous animals are generally fierce and savage, while the herbivora, on the 
contrary, are easy to tame and domesticate. Excessive or exclusive flesh 
diet plays even a greater role than racial peculiarities in influencing the 
temper of an individual. Gautier(l) is authority for the statement that 
white (laboratory) rats are manageable and easy to tame as long as they 
are fed on bread or grain, but when fed on flesh they become snappy and 
aggressive — given to biting. Liebig relates that a bear kept in a museum 
at Giessen was a gentle, docile animal when fed exclusively on bread and 
vegetables, but a few days on animal diet caused it to become fierce and 
dangerous, even to its keeper. 

We may, then, safely adduce the theory that diet influences tempera- 
ment. An exclusive animal diet makes one more aggressive, pugnacious, 
determined and self-willed ; while an exclusive vegetable diet depletes and 
enfeebles the violence of temperaments and softens and subdues manners. 
This fact has long been understood by the founders of religious orders in 
Europe, India and Asia, who have, accordingly, limited or prohibited the 
allowance of animal food in the dietary. 

In studying the "Processes of Digestion," we learned that vegetable 
food is less completely assimilated than animal food, imposing greater 
exertions on the part of the intestine, thereby diverting part of its energy 



DIETOTHERAPY— GENERAL PRINCIPLES 371 

to the accomplishment of these lower functions; it introduces into the 
system far less nutrition than meats, and far less of those sapid extractive 
matters which stimulate the heart, prod the muscle, and augment mechan- 
ical energy (1). It is, therefore, plain that an exclusively vegetable diet 
perceptibly weakens and softens the will. The wolf and wild cat — speci- 
mens of the most dangerous carnivorous animals — ^have been domesticated 
by a change of diet into docile, peaceable, friendly household pets — dogs 
and cats. 

Influence of Diet on Races — If we accept the theory that diet affects 
the development of the organs and character, we can hardly deny that it 
also modifies races. Darwin voiced the opinion that alimentation which 
creates internal conditions is, with the influence exercised by external con- 
ditions and selection, the preponderant cause of the variations observed in 
animals. Gautier believes that the qualities peculiar to each individual 
and each race are perceptibly influenced by the continuous action of diet, 
and that, reciprocally, when habits are contracted and temperaments 
created by long heredity, a special diet often becomes necessary. He says 
an Englishman or Dutchman will become weakened on being deprived of 
meat far more quickly than the Spaniard, Southern Frenchman or Italian, 
and that the latter races, when fed on the same food, if almost entirely 
vegetable, will be able to perform much more work than a member of the 
Northern races. Beyond doubt diet influences the physiological vigor and 
character of races. As a consequence, it must also have a bearing on 
intellectual aptitudes. 

Occupation and Diet — We know that a man doing mechanical work re- 
quires a dietary abundant in ternary principles — carbohydrates, hydro- 
carbons and meat, especially the latter. Such a dietary, we have seen, 
develops muscular force, energy, vigor and even violence, while on the 
contrary, it is not very favorable to the culture of the artistic or scientific 
temperament. According to Gautier, those who would give themselves up 
to speculation and thought, to the exercise of their powers of observation 
or generalization, the development or expression of their artistic senti- 
ments, the cultivation of the abstract sciences, etc., require bread, gi-een 
vegetables, ripe fruits, and, for nitrogenous food, 150 to 200 grams (5 to 
6 ounces) of meat, fish or poultry per day, eggs, milk and other foods 
easily digested (rice, carrots, cauliflower, asparagus, mushrooms, a small 
quantity of potatoes, etc. ) , and finally a few aromatic condiments, together 
with a little coffee or tea. Such a diet is far more suitable than one rich 
in animal proteins and fats, and the more so because those who devote 
themselves to exercising the mind or imagination generally take insuf- 



372 DIET IK HEALTH 

ficient physical exercise, thus constituting themselves candidates for 
arthritis, gout, hepatic, cerebral and renal congestions. Such predisposi- 
tions are often increased by the abuse of coffee or tea, sometimes of alcohol 
or tobacco, and the desire for condiments which momentarily excite the 
appetite which sedentary work tends to weaken. For them the dishes to 
avoid are those which are difficult to digest or which require to be taken 
in a great quantity, too abundant meats and too starchy vegetables. 

For individuals who devote their energies to intellectual research, in 
whom artistic impressions predominate, the dietary allowance should be 
that which corresponds to their vocation as well as to the climate in which 
they live. Beyond doubt, all brain work consumes energy corresponding 
to the effort expended. Moritz Schiff has "demonstrated that every im- 
pression heats the brain and the organism and causes as a consequence an 
expenditure of energy." Physiologists have pointed out the fact that intel- 
lectual fatigue does not increase the quantity of the total urinary nitrogen 
and consequently the amount of protein broken up or the combustion of 
fats (5) or even the amount of phosphorus excreted in a given period of 
time. When considering the subject of "Hygiene of Eating," we empha- 
sized the point that intellectual effort should never be undertaken imme- 
diately after or following a large meal, when the organs of digestion are 
most active and require that the blood should not flow to the brain, but 
to the stomach. During sleep, the destruction of the nitrogenous principles 
of our tissues does not appear to vary ; but that of the fatty bodies becomes 
greatly enfeebled without the amount of oxygen absorbed always diminish- 
ing in proportion. There is often an accumulation of oxygen in the system 
during the night's rest, especially in the case of young children(6). 

Climate and Diet.- — Climate and season beyond question have an im- 
portant bearing on the necessary dietary. In cold climates and seasons 
more heat is radiated from the body, and the loss from breathing is much 
greater ; therefore a richer dietary for the same amount of work becomes 
necessary, and, similarly, a poorej* dietary will suffice in a warm country. 
As will be seen further on in this chapter, when considering diet in the 
tropics, it is obvious that more heat is radiated by evaporation of the 
water from the lungs or in the form of perspiration in hot climates, which 
diminishes the proportion of energy otherwise capable of being trans- 
formed into muscular exertion. It is apparent, therefore, that this loss by 
cooling is slight, and the individual will be able to discharge his functions 
and allotted tasks equally well on a smaller diet. Gautier records an in- 
stance where Catalonians lived on a dietary which provided them with 
no more than 1,900 to 2,000 calories, yet they were none the less good- 



DIETOTHERAPY— GENERAL PRINCIPLES 



373 



tempered, healthy and muscular, and capable of executing a great amount 
of work. This author also quotes Maurel of Toulouse, who has done some 
interesting research work along this line(Y). Below is inserted a table 
worked out by Prof. Maurel for the maintenance allowance in hot seasons 
and hot countries, cold seasons and cold countries, and finally the inter- 
mediate climates for normal individuals from twenty to thirty: 

MAINTENANCE ALLOWANCE ACCORDING TO CLIMATES 





Number of 


Calories per 24 Hours 










Climate and Seasons 


Calories per 


Man 


Man 


Man 




kilogram 


weighing 


weighing 


weighing 






60 kilograms 


70 kilograms 


80 kilograms 


Hot season of hot countries. . 


30 


1800 


2100 


2400 


Cold season of hot countries 










and summer of temperate 










countries 


35 


3100 


2450 


2800 


Intermediate season of tem- 




perate countries and sum- 










mer of cold countries 


40 


2400 


2800 


3200 


Cold season of temperate 










countries and intermediate 










season of cold countries . . . 


45 


2700 


3150 


3600 


Cold season of cold countries 


50 


3000 


3500 


4000 



In the beginning of this chapter we referred to diet in cold climates 
and to the enormous amount of meats and fats consumed by the inhabi- 
tants of the Polar and Arctic regions. Wherever muscular exercise be- 
comes a necessity, animal food should form a large part of the dietary, 
and the allowance should be relatively more liberal in proportion to the 
degree of work to be performed. Explorers have given us the advantage 
of their experiences in the Arctic regions in allowing a certain propor- 
tion of alcoholic beverages with meals (8). During a cold season or in 
the Arctic regions the question of resisting cold is a vital one. AVe have 
seen that the ingestion of large quantities of fat and flesh, with this object 
in view, is of the utmost importance. The Eskimo and Greenlander when 
exposed to the cold will drink and relish several pints of fish oil per day. 
On the other hand, in tropical climates and hot seasons, fats, the great 
producers of heat, should naturally form only a small part of the daily 
ration, and soft drinks, lemonades, etc., should take their place. This 
point will be further elaborated on in the section on "Foods in Tropical 
Countries." 

124 



374 



DIET IN HEALTH 



DIET STUDIES 

The dietaries of the inhabitants of the United States vary with differ- 
ent classes and in different sections of the country. Numerous investiga- 
tions upon nutrition have been made in the various parts of the United 
States under the auspices of the Department of Agriculture(9). The 
table on page 249 shows the dietaries of various classes of laborers, students 
and professional men. This table contains facts and figures with reference 
to the diet of students' clubs and colleges and contrasts them with the diet 
of professional men and mechanics. It must be borne in mind that the 
dietaries contained in this table (10), giving the protein, fat, carbohydrate 
and energy content of the various standard diets and of the diet in the 
principal universities and for mechanics and other day laborers, does not 
portray accurately the dietary of the people of the different sections of the 
country. It is evident from the facts and figures in these statistics that 
people eat what their markets provide, except when poverty prevents pur- 
chasing. For instance, the family of a sewing woman in New York 
City (11) averaged for one person a day: 

DIETARY OF A POOR PERSON IN NEW YORK CITY, SHOWING THE 
FOOD ELEMENTS AND CALORIES 





Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Energy 
Equivalent 


Animal food 


Grams 
26 
31 


Grams 
34 

7 


Grams 

15 

222 


Calories 
485 


Vegetable food 


1,100 


Total 


57 


41 


237 


1,585 



Or a total of 57 grams of protein and 1,585 calories, this being less than 
a mere subsistence. The articles of food consumed by this family were 
beef shank, pork chops, sardines, eggs, butter, milk, barley, wheat flour, 
rye bread, wheat bread, rolls, cakes, crackers, sugar, beans, potatoes, rad- 
ishes, rhibarb and tomatoes. The principal quantities of animal food 
consumed were in the form of eggs and milk; of carbohydrate, bread, 
sugar, potatoes and canned tomatoes. 

Students' Clubs — The table below outlines the various articles of food 
comprising the dietary, of students' clubs in four different states, as men- 
tioned in the table on page 249, Volume II, Chapter IX. 



DIET STUDIES 



375 



WEIGHT OF DIFFERENT CLASSES OF FOOD PURCHASED PER MAN 

PER DAY(16) 





Tennessee 


Missouri 


Connecticut 


Maine 


Beef, veal, mutton 


Grams 

187 

89 

28 

12 

32 

39 

7 

97 

108 

564 

250 

50 


Grams 

160 

113 

12 

6 

55 

27 

7 

680 

524 

266 

51 


Grams 
245 
91 
6 
24 
35 
60 

457 

361 

189 

89 


Grams 
231 


Pork 


98 


Poultry 


100 


Fish 


77 


Eggs 


53 


Butter 


52 


Cheese 




Milk 


910 


Buttermilk 




Cereals, sugar, etc 


835 


Vegetables 


530 


Fruits 


48 







A study of this table reveals the fact that the greatest quantities of 
animal foods were consumed by the students' clubs in Maine, Missouri 
and Connecticut, and the least in Tennessee. The consumption of carbo- 
hydrate foods was largest in Maine and least in Connecticut. It will be 
noticed also that the students in Connecticut and Maine consumed a larger 
proportion of beef than was used by the students in Tennessee or Missouri. 
In the latter state the students consumed a noticeably large amount of 
pork. While in Maine poultry and fish comprised a large part of the 
animal food, these were little used in the colleges in Tennessee and Mis- 
souri. Milk formed a conspicuous percentage of the diet in the schools 
of Missouri, Connecticut and Maine, while in Tennessee it was used spar- 
ingly. The dietary of the student clubs in Maine seems to be much more 
generous in all respects than the others. In Tennessee the average of five 
student clubs was 92 grams of protein, yielding 3,545 calories of energy; 
38 per cent of the food value was obtained from animal food and 62 per 
cent from vegetable food. In Missouri the average of three student clubs 
was 96 grams of protein, the menu yielded 3,560 calories of energy, and 
the food value was about equally divided between the animal and vegetable 
kingdoms. In Connecticut, of 5 student clubs the average was 106 grams 
of protein, the ration yielding 3,280 calories of energy, 53 per cent of 
which was furnished by animal food and 4Y by vegetable food. In Maine, 
the average of 5 student clubs was 121 grams of protein, the menu yield- 
ing 4,269 calories of energy, 40 per cent of which was furnished by animal 
food and 60 per cent by vegetable food. Although these dietaries do not 
portray the actual dietaries of the people in the sections of the country 



376 DIET IN HEALTH 

where these schools are located, yet they may be accepted as an approximate 
criterion of the usual dietary of the inhabitants of the various sections. 

Mechanics and Laborers. —The dietary of most mechanics in the United 
States affords them from 100 to 150 grams of protein, and yields from 
3,000 to 5,000 calories of energy. A list of occupations requiring a great 
expenditure of energy and the necessary energy required expressed in 
calories will be found by referring to previous pages in this chapter. 
It is not, after all, such a formidable task to reckon the caloric value of a 
meal. For instance, take the principal meal (dinner) of a laborer or 
mechanic: roast beef, 100 calories; bread, 150 calories; butter, 150 
calories; rice, 128 calories; baked potato, 100 calories; bread pudding, 
128 calories ; sugar and cream with coffee, 100 calories ; total, 960 calories, 
about one-third of the day's requirements. A meal of this composition is 
over-rich in protein, but the balance would be restored by lack of protein 
and an excess of green vegetables and fruits at the other two meals. It 
will be taken into consideration that the ordinary portions of these sub- 
stantial foods average about 100 calories. When extra strenuous effort 
is put forth in an occupation, the portions of bread and potatoes, butter 
and rice can be increased and easily raise the meal to the energy require- 
ment without adding to the main protein ration, whatever it may be — 
meat, cheese, chicken or fish. If a laborer has been subjected to strenu- 
ous exercise and is hungry, allow him to fill up on non-protein elements of 
the meal, help him to more potatoes and vegetables or simple p\idding, 
instead of increasing the animal foods. 

It has been found in the South that cornbread and molasses will fur- 
nish the necessary energy to carry a negro through a cold day. If he 
works hard, he will burn it up completely, and there will be no ashes as 
would be the case if he overate of meat or other protein. Late researches 
tend to prove that the protein elements can be stored, at least for a short 
period of time, in the tissues; but such a storage is more or less dangerous 
from the extra strain put on the liver and kidneys to excrete the waste. 
Carbonaceous foods — sugar, starches and fats — can be stored in the form 
of tissue fats. 

The average human body weighing 154 pounds should have about six- 
tenths of its heat or fuel units supplied from carbohydrates, sugar, pota- 
toes, bread, cereals and vegetables; three-tenths should be supplied by 
fats, butter, oils, cream or meat fats — the last being the least desirable 
form in which this element may be supplied. These energy or fuel foods 
should be increased in quantity in proportion to the energy expended in 
strenuous exercise or in the performance of hard work. 



DIET STUDIES 



377 



It has always been recognized by scientific men that the allowance of 
food should be in proportion to the work the body is expected to do. Play- 
fair (12), who has given this subject a great deal of attention, has worked 
out a table with the corresponding amounts of matter and energy iji grams 
and calories, estimated by Rubner's factors. 

PLAYFAIR'S TABLE OF REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK 



Subject and 
Condition 



Subsistence diet 

Model ate work 

Soldiers: During peace 

Infantry in the field . 

Royal Engineers in 

the field 

English sailors 

Navy 

Prisoners : Under 7 days 

Under 21 days 

Light labor 

Industrial labor .... 

Hard labor 

Undergoing punish- 
ment 



20 



2.230 
4.075 
4.215 
5.410 

5.080 
5.000 
5.640 
1.800 
2.448 
3.508 
3.710 
4.075 

1.296 






.840 
1.557 
1.397 
2.410 

2.910 

2.370 

2.340 

.480 

.608 

.315 

1.562 

1.557 

.256 



o - 



11.69 
18.80 
18.69 
17.92 

22.25 
14.39 
20.41 
10.71 
14.80 
16.72 
17.31 
18.80 

8.16 






1.963 
.714 
.680 

.930 



1.715 
1.616 
1.963 

.368 



> 



2,453 
4,072 
4,026 
4,458 

5,232 
3,911 
4,839 
1,938 
2,650 
3,577 
3,787 
4,072 

1,541 



1^ 
Pi 



63.25 
115.00 
120.00 
154.00 

144.00 
142.00 
160.00 
51.00 
68.00 
100.00 
105.00 
116.00 

36.00 






22.0 
44.0 
40.0 
68.0 

82.5 
65.0 
67.0 
14.0 
17.0 
9.0 
44.0 
44.0 

7.1 



-go 



330 
534 
510 
610 

610 
410 
578 
304 
425 
470 
495 
534 

230 



CO 73 

^ a 



14.00 
19.25 
19.07 

26.36 



50.00 
46.00 
14.00 

10.60 



WO 



1,820 
3,070 
3,037 
3,374 

3,858 
3,067 
3,650 
1,626 
2,179 
2,420 
2,870 
3,075 

1,154 



Many physiologic investigators have devoted considerable time and 
research to determine the alimentation consumed by individuals who were 
allowed a "free choice of food," and have come to the conclusion that the 
dietaries having the food value given in Playfair's table would furnish a 
nutrition that was fairly normal and that the nitrogen balance would be 
kept in a fair state of equilibrium. The conclusion is that the Playfair 
dietaries represent fairly well the amount of food required by persons 
studied in these tables, which we will now compare with the alimentation 
outlined in the table given on page 270. The list of examples of food con- 
sumed is compiled from data collected by Tibbies (13) in Europe, Asia 
and America, and shows that when Europeans or Americans are free to 
choose their own food they seldom select what will yield less than 100 
grams of protein per diem. Wlien the choice of food rests with the indi- 
vidual (American), he seldom partakes of less than 90 grams of protein- 
per day. In this country there are many thousands of individuals who, 
from force of circumstances, are necessarily compelled to subsist on a 



378 



DIET IN HEALTH 



dietary with a much smaller quantity of protein, because eggs, meat, fish, 
fowl, milk and cheese are more expensive than bread, potatoes, rice, oat- 
meal, etc. 

Standard and Actual Dietaries Compared. — We will now study the fol- 
lowing standard daily dietaries as suggested by Hutchison (14), all con- 
taining a high protein content, founded on the investigations by At- 
water(15) : 

DAILY STANDARD DIETARIES 

(Food materials furnishing approximately the 0.28 pound = 125 grams of protein and 
3,500 calories of energy of the standard for daily dietary of a man of moderate 

muscular work.) 



Food Materials 


Amount 


Total 
Organic 
Matter 


Protein 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Fuel 
Values 


I 

Beef, round steak 


Ounces 

13 

3 

6 
22 


Pounds 

0.26 
0.16 
0.17 
0.89 


Poimds 
0.14 

6m 

0.12 


Pounds 

0.12 
0.16 

6.02 


Pounds 

6.15 
0.75 


Calories 
695 


Butter 


680 


Potatoes 


320 


Bread 


1760 






II 
Pork, salt 


44 

4 

2 

16 

8 


1.48 

0.21 
0.11 
0.84 
0.33 


0.28 

6.23 
0.04 


0.30 

0.21 
0.11 
0.02 
0.01 


0.90 

6.59 
0.28 


3455 

880 


Butter 


450 


Beans 


1615 


Bread 


640 






Ill 
Beef, neck 


30 

10 
1 

16 

16 
4 

16 
3 


1.49 

0.19 
0.05 
0.13 
0.17 
0.23 
0.67 
0.19 


0.27 

0.10 

0.04 
0.02 
0.04 
0.09 


0.35 

0.09 
0.05 
0.04 

6.02 
0.02 


0.87 

6.05 
0.15 
0.17 
0.56 
0.19 


3585 
550 


Butter 


255 


Milk, one pint 


325 


Potatoes 


320 


Oatmeal 


460 


Bread 


1280 


Sugar 


345 






-- IV 

Beef, upper shoulder 

Ham 


66 

10 
6 
3 
2 
16 
12 
9 
1 


1.63 

0.22 
0.19 
0.05 
0.11 
0.13 
0.12 
0.44 
0.06 


0.29 

0.09 
0.06 
0.03 

6m 

0.01 
0.05 


0.22 

0.13 
0.13 
0.02 
0.11 
0.04 

6.01 


1.12 

6.05 
0.11 
0.38 
0.06 


3535 

800 
650 


Eees, two 


135 


Butter 


450 


Milk, one pint 


325 


Potatoes 


240 


Flour 


825 


Suear 


115 








59 


1.32 


0.28 


0.44 


0.60 


3540 



DIET STUDIES 



379 



DAILY STANDARD BIET ARIES— Continued 



Food Materials 


Amount 


Total 
Organic 
Matter 


Protein 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Fuel 
Values 


V 

Sausage 


Ounces 

4 
14 

2 
16 

5 

2 
16 

9 

3 


Pounds 

0.14 
0.07 
0.11 
0.13 
0.26 
0.11 
0.24 
0.33 
0.19 


Pounds 

0.03 
0.07 

6.04 
0.07 
0.01 
0.01 
0.04 


Pounds 

0.11 

6.11 
0.04 
0.01 

6.01 


Pounds 

0.05 
0.18 
0.10 
0.23 
0.28 
0.19 


Calories 
510 


Codfish 


140 


Butter 


450 


Milk, one pint 


325 


Beans 


505 


Rice 


205 


Potatoes 


420 


Bread 


640 


Sugar 


345 






VI 

Beef 


71 

8 
4 
3 

1 
16 
8 
2 
9 
IK 


1.58 

0.18 
0.08 
0.05 
0.13 
0.04 
0.13 
0.09 
0.11 
0.38 
0.69 


. 0.27 

0.08 
0.04 
0.03 

0.02 
0.04 
0.01 
0.01 
0.05 


0.28 

0.10 
0.04 
0.02 
0.13 
0.02 
0.04 

6.01 


1.03 

6.05 
0.08 
0.10 
0.32 
0.09 


3540 
560 


Mackerel, salt 


230 


Two eggs 


135 


Butter 


565 


Cheese 


130 




325 


Potatoes 


160 




205 


Bread 


720 


Sugar 


175 








55 


1.88 


0.28 


0.36 


0.64 


3205 



The standard daily dietaries given are constructed from theoretical 
data taken from. Hutchison on this and the preceding page. It will now be 
interesting to make a comparative study of these dietaries with the com- 
position of ordinary daily dietaries actually consumed by individuals of 
different countries, of different social rank, following various and sundry 
occupations. In the table on pages 378-9, modified from Atwater(16), 
studies are compiled from a large number of actual dietaries. 

On careful study of the tables (pages 380-1) of actual dietaries, it will 
be observed that they conform closely to the ideal standard dietary on the 
preceding page. Discrepancies of course will be noted here and there. For 
instance, the diet of the sewing girl in London is altogether insufficient for 
bodily requirements, while, on the other hand, the diet of some well-to-do 
American families, bricklayers, and teamsters is needlessly liberal, espe- 
cially with the protein allowance (compare low protein allowance sug- 
gested by Chittenden (17) in his standard dietary table given in Volume 
II, Chapter YII). Taking the preceding table as a whole, it is gratifying 



380 



DIET IN HEALTH 



ACTUAL DIETARIES 



Classes 



Nutritive Constituents 


Protein 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Total 


Grams 

127 

95 


Grams 
186 
132 


Grams 
• 531 
481 


Grams 
844 
708 


114 


150 


522 


786 


129 
128 


183 
177 


467 
466 


779 
771 


161 
138 
115 
104 
181 
182 
222 


204 
184 
163 
136 
292 
254 
263 


680 
622 
460 
421 
557 
617 
758 


1,045 

944 

738 

661 

1,030 

1,053 

1,243 


254 
180 
120 
143 
103 


363 
365 
161 
184 
138 


826 
1,150 
454 
520 
486 


1,443 

1,695 

735 

847 
677 


104 


125 


423 




101 


139 


414 




105 


147 


465 




109 


109 


527 


745 


118 


204 


549 


871 


107.7 
115 

63 

73 
100 


88.4 
113 
3 
30 

84 


479.4 

289 

481 

472 

264 


675.5 


155 
53 

52 
60 


177 
33 
53 

28 


440 
316 
301 
398 


402 
406 
486 



Potential 
Energy 



United States Dietaries 
Factory operatives, mechanics, etc., Mass. 

Glass-blowers, E. Cambridge, Mass 

Factory operatives, dressmakers, clerks, 

etc., boarding-house 

Well-to-do private family, Connecticut: 

Food purchased 

Food eaten 

College students from Northern and East- 
ern States; boarding club, two die- 
taries of the same club: 

Food purchased 

Food eaten 

Food purchased 

Food eaten 

College football team, food eaten 

Machinist, Boston, Mass 

Brick-makers, Middletown, Conn 

Teamsters, marble-workers, etc., with hard 

work, Boston, Mass 

Brick-makers, Cambridge, Mass 

U. S. Army ration 

U. S. Navy ration 

Average of 53 American studies 

Professional men in America (average of 

14 studies) 

Average of 4 women students* clubs in 

America 

Average of 16 men students' clubs in 

America 

Canadian Dietaries 
French Canadians, working people, in 

Canada 

French Canadians, factory operatives, 

mechanics, etc 

European Dietaries 

Average diet of laborer's family in Edin- 
burgh 

Chinese dentist's family 

Japanese professional man 

Malays (professional men) 

Europeans in Java (professional men). . . . 

University boat crews (average of 7 
studies) 

London, sewing girl, wages 3s. 9d. per week 

Leipsic, Germany, factory girl, 5s. per week 

England, weaver, time of scarcity 



Calories 
4,428 
3,590 

4,002 

4,146 
4,082 



5,345 

4,827 
3,874 
3,417 
5,742 
5,638 
6,464 

7,804 
8,848 
3,851 
4,998 
3,500 

3,325 

3,405 

3,705 



3,622 
4,632 



3,228 
2,705 
2,258 
2,512 
2,470 

4,085 
1,820 
1,940 
3,138 



DIET STUDIES 
ACTUAL DIETARIES— Conimwed 



381 



Classes 



European Dietaries — Continued 

Lombardy, Italy, laborers; diet mostly 
vegetable 

Trappist monk in cloister; very little ex- 
ercise, vegetable diet 

Japan, students 

Munich, Germany, university professor, 
very little exercise 

Munich, lawyer 

Munich, physician 

Leipsic, Germany, painter 

Leipsic, Germany, cabinet-maker 

England "fully fed" tailors 

Munich, Germany, "well-paid" mechanic. 

Munich, Germany, carpenter 

England, " hard- worked " weaver 

England, blacksmith 

Germany, miners at very severe work. . . . 

Munich, brick-makers (Italians at con- 
tract work) 

Munich, brewery laborer, very severe 
work, exceptional diet 

Gennan soldiers, peace footing 

German soldiers, war footing 

German soldiers, Franco-German War, ex 
traordinary ration 

Russian workmen 

Swedish workmen (moderate labor) 

Swedish workmen (hard labor) 



Nutritive Constituents 



Protein 



Grams 

82 

68 
97 

100 

80 
131 
87 
77 
131 
151 
131 
151 
176 
133 

167 

223 
114 
134 

157 
132 
134 

189 



Fats 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Grams 
40 

11 

16 

100 

125 
95 
69 
57 
39 
54 
68 
43 
71 

113 

117 

113 
39 

58 

285 
80 
79 

110 



Grams 

362 

469 
438 



240 
222 
327 
366 
466 
525 
479 
494 
622 
667 
634 

675 

909 
480 
489 

331 
583 
523 

714 



Total 



Grams 

484 

548 
551 



440 
427 
553 
522 
600 
695 
684 
693 
816 
914 
880 

959 

245 
633 
681 

733 



Potential 
Energy 



Calories 

2,192 

2,304 
2,343 

2,324 
2,401 
2,762 
2,500 
2,757 
3,053 
3,085 
3,194 
3,569 
4,117 
4,195 

4,641 

5,692 
2,798 
3,098 

4,652 
3,675 
3,436 
4,726 



to observe the closeness with which the actual dietaries correspond to the 
standard. We must not overlook the fact that the standard dietaries such 
as we have been considering have only a limited range of usefulness. It 
would not be wise to apply them rigidly in any particular case, since they 
have been formulated to meet the demands of typical vocations living 
under well-known and regulated conditions and engaged in occupations 
calling for only a moderate amount of muscular work. Still they are of 
value in guiding us to formulate well-balanced rations for persons who 
have no decided choice in their alimentation, and who are living under 
fairly imiform regulations^ — such as soldiers, inmates of prisons, homes 
and workhouses. Besides, these studies furnish us with standard infor- 
mation by which to regulate well-balanced rations for any collection of 
individuals. 



382 DIET IN HEALTH 

Col. Melville, in discussing "The Food Requirements for Sustenance 
and Work"(18), reported before the British Medical Association his 
studies on the observation of men doing a measured amount of work with a 
measured quantity of food. 

Twenty soldiers walked for periods of five and six days an average of twelve 
to thirteen miles, carrying their kit, the weight of which averaged 54 pounds 
(24.5 kilos). The average weight of the men was 141 pounds (64.15 kilos). The 
expenditure of enei^ was calculated from Zuntz's factors: For every kilo trans- 
ported horizontally at the rate of 94 meters (102 yards) per minute the expendi- 
ture was 0.0006 calorie ; and for every kilo raised 1 meter vertically the expenditure 
was 0.0075 calorie; whence it was determined that the average expenditure in 
walking one mile and carrying 54 pounds over an ordinary give-and-take road 
was 90 calories, and the total daily expenditure in external or mechanical work 
amounted to 1,034 calories. 

According to the above, it will be readily seen that the total energy 
expended by these men was as follows : 

ENERGY EXPENDED BY MARCHING SOLDIERS 

(a) Energy spent in sedentary occupation (Zuntz) 2,200 calories 

(b) Energy spent in work to camp life, and in playing quoits and foot- 

ball 800 

(c) Energy spent in walking and carrying load 1,034 " 



Total average daily expenditure 4,034 " 

The march was done on six days continuously, then one day's rest in- 
tervened before the second period of five days' walking completed the 
work done. The food consumed was as follows : 

FOOD CONSUMED BY EACH SOLDIER PER DAY 

First Week Second Week Average 

Proteins 190 grams 145 grams 168 grams 

Carbohydrates 510 " 450 « 480 " 

Fat 58 « 110 « 84 « 

Calories 3,426 « 3,503 " 3,481 " 

Unavoidable waste, 10 per cent: net calorific value, 3,140. 

A careful examination of the above tabulation by Melville(19) em- 
phasizes the fact that there was a deficiency of 890 calories in the 
alimentation. 

Negroes and Poor Mexicans — Atwater and Wood (20) call special at- 
tention to the fact that "our dietary is out of balance," and aver that "the 
one-sidedness is greater in the South than in the North," by which they 
mean that the ratio between protein and calories is greater than it should 
be. The table on page 384 gives data with reference to the protein require- 
ment of the diet of both men and women in various occupations. Hoff- 



DIET STUDIES 383 

man, in writing on the diet of the Southern negroes (21), emphasizes the 
point that the negroes of the Southern States subsist on an unvaried diet, 
consisting eithei of staple foods of fat, salt pork, corn meal and molasses, 
and that with them cooking is most primitive. The following from Hoff- 
man's views on the subject is of interest : 

The daily fare is prepared in very simple ways. Corn meal is mixed with 
water and baked on the flat surface of a hoe or griddle. The salt pork is sliced 
thin and fried nntil very brown and much of the grease fried out. Molasses 
from cane or sorghum is added to the fat, making what is known as "sop," which 
is eaten with the corn bread. Hot water sweetened with molasses is used as a 
beverage. This is the bill of fare, three times a day during the year, of most of 
the cabins on the plantations of the "black belt." It is, however, varied at times; 
thus, collards and turnips are boiled with the bacon, the latter being used with the 
vegetables to supply fat, "to make it rich." The corn-meal bread is sometimes 
made into so-called "cracklin bread," and is prepared as follows: A piece of 
fat bacon is fried until it is brittle; it is then crushed and mixed with corn meal, 
water, soda and salt and baked in an oven over the fireplace. Occasionally, the 
negroes may have an opossum. To prepare this for eating it is first put into hot 
water to help in removing a part of the hair, then covered with hot ashes until 
the rest of the hair is removed; thereupon it is put in a large pot, surrounded 
with sweet potatoes, seasoned with red pepper, and baked. One characteristic 
of the cooking is that all meats are fried or otherwise cooked until they are crisp. 
Observation among these people reveals the fact that very many of them suffer 
from indigestion in some form. 

Arthur Goss(22), in writing on the dietary standards of the Alabama 
negroes, makes a comparison of their diet with that of the Mexicans of New 
Mexico, and the following from his observations is of interest in this 
connection : 

Mexicans of the poorer class raise the greater part of their food, which is 
almost entirely of vegetable origin. Flour and corn are used, the relative amounts 
depending upon the amount of money available. If it is necessary to reduce the 
cost of living to the minimum, as is often the case, more corn and less flour is used. 

Probably the next article in amount, and a very important one, is the native 
bean or "frijole" (Phaseolus sp.), which, together with peas and lentils, is used 
to supply the protein necessary in the absence of meats and other nitrogenous 
foods of animal origin. 

Another universal article in the Mexican diet is red pepper, or "chili," which, 
while it constitutes comparatively a rather small proportion by weight of the 
total food, is still consumed in enormous quantities as compared with the use of 
such material by the people of the eastern states. Chili is probably used more 
for its stimulating effect on the digestive organs than for the actual amount of 
nutrients which it furnishes. 

In point of cost, probably the most important article used by the Mexicans 
not home produced is coffee. Lard is another very important article which is 
usually purchased, and which is used in considerable quantities. As the vege- 



384 



DIET m HEALTH 



table foods used contain very little fat, it is necessary to increase the amount of 
this substance by addition from outside sources, usually either lard compound or 
beef tallow, which are the cheapest forms of fat in this region. 

In the houses of the poorer class the cooking is done in an open fireplace, 
usually located in one comer of the room. 

The "tortillas" (23), or cakes made from flour or ground com, are one of 
the most generally and extensively used foods. When the tortillas are made from 
com, the kernels are first boiled w^ith lime, which softens them. The skin is 
then usually, though not always, removed, and the grain is ground in a crude 
stone grinding apparatus, or "metate," consisting of a concave slab of stone and 
a smaller convex piece, which is held in the hands and which serves as a pestle. 
The grinding is not rotary, however, as in an ordinary mortar, but up and down, 
toward and from the body. The com used is usually a small blue kind, rather 
soft, which seems to contain somewhat more than the average amount of fat. 
After the corn has been ground into a mush on the metate, it is patted out in 
the hands into the tortillas. Com tortillas are never rolled, as is the case with 
those made from flour. If flour is used, it is mixed into a dough with water and 
the cake rolled out from it. The flour used is not ground in the metate, but in 
the ordinary flouring mills. It is usually of poor quality, coarse and dark colored. 
After being worked into the proper form, the tortilla is baked on a flat piece of 
iron, supported directly over the fire in the open fireplace, the iron being first 
greased with lard. As soon as it is done on one side the tortilla is turned by 
pressing the moistened fingers against the upper side of it, thus causing it to 
adhere to the fingers, whereupon it is deftly turned and the opposite side is 
browned. 

The frijoles, or beans, are cooked in small, home-made earthenware pots, and 
are. almost invariably combined with a very liberal proportion of chili and also 
with a considerable amount of lard. 

DAILY DIETARY OF NEGRO FARMER AND POOR MEXICAN 



Protein 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrate 



Calories 



Negro farmer: Animal . . . 

Vegetable. 
Same: Animal. . . 

Vegetable. 
Same: Animal... 

Vegetable. 
Poor Mexican: Animal . .. 

Vegetable. 
Same: Animal. . . 

Vegetable 
Same: Animal... 

Vegetable 
Same: Animal... 

Vegetable 



Grams 
52 
40 
2 
42 
26 
33 

107 

93 
4 

82 
29 

72 



Grams 
119 

5 
41 
16 
74 
11 
56 
19 
61 
19 
49 
23 
60 

7 



Grams 

65 
360 

372 

26 

403 

713 

644 

571 

572 



1585 
3270 

395 
1845 

900 
1890 

520 
3540 

565 
3200 

470 
2890 

680 
2705 



I 



USE OF ALCOHOL 385 

The chili is cooked alone, and also with various other articles of food. It is 
prepared by first removing the stems and seeds of the pods, which constitute 
somewhat more than half of the total weight, after which it is sometimes ground 
in the metate, but is usually soaked in water and the inner or edible portion 
separated from the outer skin by squeezing in the hands. Owing to the extremely 
strong irritating effect on the hands, this operation cannot be performed by an 
amateur. The Mexican women, however, become so accustomed to it that it seems 
to have no effect on them. 

Among the poor families the meals are served on the floor in the middle of 
the room, the family sitting on the ground around the food and eating without 
knives, forks or plates. 

The exceedingly small amount of animal food consumed by some of 
the negro families studied by Hoffman, and its entire absence, except as 
represented by lard, in some of the Mexican families as studied by Goss, 
are shown in the table on the preceding page. This research shows a suf- 
ficient source of heat units obtained from vegetable fuel foods, but at the 
same time it shows an insufficiency of protein, most of which is derived 
from vegetable foods and in some instances altogether so. For the sake 
of comparison, consult the Standard Dietary as outlined by Chit- 
tenden (17). 

USE OF ALCOHOL 

A healthy normal individual does not need alcohol. As a beverage 
it undoubtedly exerts harmful influences upon the human economy. It is 
absolutely unnecessary in. health, but it is so extensively employed in all 
parts of the world either to produce fictitious exhilaration or, by lessening 
sensibility, to mitigate fatigue and discomfort, sorrow and suffering, and 
it has been so largely and so injudiciously used in disease, that it demands 
some consideration. {See also Volume I, Chapter XVI, "Beverages 
and Stimulants"). Its habitual use prods the heart to greater activity. 
Richardson, writing on the subject, says : "One ounce of alcohol daily will 
increase the heart beats 430 ; 2 ounces, 1,872 ; 4 ounces, 12,960 ; 6 ounces, 
30,670." But while increasing the rate of the heart, it weakens the force 
so that the final result is to lower the blood pressure. In other words, 
while the heart seems to be stimulated, it is really weakened. It is not 
surprising therefore that a period of enfeeblement of this organ follows 
the habitual use of alcohol. 

The use of alcohol does not increase muscular energy, but on the other 
hand fatigue is hastened by it. Its effect on individuals varies greatly; 
some show ill effects on small doses and others are seemingly resistant to 
large ones. Some people are stimulated by it to eat more heartily and to 



386 DIET IN HEALTH 

put forth less muscular exertion, and since oxidation goes on more slowly 
in these individuals, they easily accumulate fat, but, although they may 
appear plump and full fed, they are not, as a rule, resistant to disease nor 
capable of prolonged, strenuous, muscular exertion. Its habitual use is of 
no advantage in normal health, while those who are not strong-willed or 
self-controlled, and those who inherit a love for liquor or have a tendency 
to inebriety, gout, arteriosclerosis, or other degenerative changes, will be 
far better without it. It is true, many persons can use it in strict modera- 
tion without apparent harm ; the majority, however, sooner or later awake 
to the realization that even with moderation they are not so well when 
they use it habitually. The continued and habitual use of alcoholic bev- 
erages invariably exerts a harmful influence on the human organism. 
The wisdom or folly of their use in health is not a question that the 
physiologist alone can determine. The ease with which the habit of im- 
bibing spirituous liquors grows to an excess, and the harmful influences 
exerted by them on the body politic, make the desirability of their use a 
social problem as well as a physiological one. 

Since alcohol is really a narcotic and not a stimulant at all, and since 
it is not a food in any real scientific sense, it need not, therefore, be 
further discussed under the present caption : "Diet in Health." 

DIET IN TROPICAL CLIMATES (24) 

It has been generally taught that in tropical climates a smaller amount 
of nitrogenous food is required than in the temperate zones. Of course, 
it must be premised that the natives of tropical lands are better fitted 
physically and physiologically to withstand excessive heat and the actinic 
rays of the sun in hot climates than are the white men who, as a rule, are 
only sojourners. But even in the case of natives, the long-held ideas that 
"they should eat the kind of food which is habitual with them because it 
best suits their requirements," are lapsing into something like disrepute. 
In fact, within recent years opinions as to diet in the tropics both for 
natives and for white men have changed very considerably. 

General Considerations. — ^We will present herewith the views of various 
authorities on the subject, and then endeavor to sift the evidence or leave 
it to our readers to form their own opinions. The late Dr. Charles Wood- 
ruff (25), a man of very decided views and one who was not afraid to 
express them, however much they might clash with those of other observ- 
ers, delivered himself somewhat as follows with respect to diet in hot 
climates. "It used to be an article of faith in physiology, that wherever 



I 



DIET IN TROPICAL CLIMATES 387 

we go in the world we should imitate the natives in food, clothing, houses 
and methods of work. Upon acquaintance with the native we found him 
poverty stricken, weak, undersized, even half starved, badly housed, filthy, 
diseased, and of such lack of vitality as to average less than fifteen years of 
life. To imitate him, as our physiologists taught, was merely to die twenty 
or twenty-five years before our time." According to Woodruff, false notions 
are now gradually disappearing in the light of new facts. Take, for exam- 
ple, the matter of meat in the tropics. The orthodox theory was that we 
must cut down animal foods below the limit found necessary at home, 
because, forsooth, the native dying of nitrogen starvation could not get as 
much as he should. The theory was put into practice with disastrous 
results, and nowadays every army officer knows that to avoid the awful 
exhaustions caused by tropical climates and the consequent infections, 
such as tuberculosis, etc., we must have as much animal food as we have at 
home, or even more. 

Perhaps Woodruff was inclined to exaggerate the value of nitrogenous 
food in the tropics, but there are many who have had experience in the 
Philippines and in India who hold views very much to his way of think- 
ing. At any rate, the old-time conception that nitrogenous food was con- 
tra-indicated in the tropics has been almost exploded. 

Lukis and Blackham(26) uphold the teaching that in cold climates 
the fats should be increased and in warm climates the carbohydrates. Yet 
they do not insist on a vegetarian diet for white men or natives. They 
point out in support of the argument, that fats are not suitable for con- 
sumption in hot climates, that, while butter is eaten with avidity in the 
temperate zone, butter or fats of any description are regarded with dis- 
taste in the plains of India. These same authorities, are not in accord 
with Chittenden's views, that the current estimations of the amount of 
protein and total fuel value necessary for hard work are excessive, and 
they draw attention to the fact that the most recent researches fail to 
agree with these opinions. 

In any climate, the body seeks to maintain a reserve svipply of nitrog- 
enous food for its cells. Consequently, a man having a small reserve 
supply may be considered on a low plane of nutrition, and, per contra, one 
with a large reserve supply may be regarded as on a high plane of nutri- 
tion. It also stands to reason that those on a high plane are better able 
than those on a low plane to resist those infectious diseases which are more 
or less prevalent in the tropics, as bubonic plague, cholera, tuberculosis, 
pneumonia, typhoid fever, typhus, relapsing fever and plague. It would 
seem to follow, in the regular order of things, that white men in the 



388 DIET IX HEALTH 

tropics not well fed on nitrogenous food should readily fall victims to 
infectious diseases. And this is exactly what happens. They have placed 
themselves from the dietetic standpoint on a level with the natives, and 
like them suffer from a lowered vitality, which renders them exceedingly 
susceptible to infection and liable to succumb to the same, while their wiser 
or more fortunate meat-eating brothers are easily able to resist. 

The argument, then, that, because the natives of the tropics eat little 
nitrogenous food, white men should follow suit, will not bear close dissec- 
tion. The natives do not consume nitrogenous food for the very sufficient 
reason that, as a rule, they are not able to procure it. As referred to 
previously, a large proportion of the natives are in a state of chronic star- 
vation, and it would be the height of folly, in the opinion of Lukis and 
Blackham(26), to place white men in a similar position. These writers 
claim, and doubtless with good reasoning, that the comparative immunity 
of Englishmen to the infectious diseases that decimate the natives of India 
is due, in part at least, to their being better fed on nitrogenous food. 
Major McCay^ has been engaged during the past few years in experi- 
mental research into the question of the effect of a nitrogenous diet, and 
in his final report shows in a decisive manner that, other things being 
equal, diet is an all-important factor in determining the degree of physical 
development and general well-being of a people, and that with a low level 
of nitrogenous interchange, deficient stamina morally and physically must 
be expected. 

It is obvious that in the performance of manual labor the same expen- 
diture of energy is required in every climate, but, as Tibbies (13) points 
out, because the climate influences the radiation of heat from the body, 
and that this radiation is greater in a cold or wet climate and less in a hot 
than in a temperate climate, more food is needed in a cold than in a hot 
climate. However, this is considerably modified by circumstances. In 
civilized countries, and especially in America, the greater loss of heat in 
a cold climate is prevented by heating the houses and by wearing warm 
clothes, and the radiation of heat and evaporation from the body in a hot 
climate is promoted by wearing thin clothing. Although body metabolism 
is slightly decreased by the greater heat of tropical climates, the produc- 
tion of heat is really not much less than in a temperate climate. Where- 
fore the conclusion has been reached that it is well not to take less food in 
hot climates, but to increase slightly the intake of carbohydrates in order 
to supply the heat radiated from the skin, and with the special object of 
promoting perspiration. Tibbies, however, doubts whether it is good ad- 

1 Professor of Physiology at Calcutta Medical College. 



DIET IX TROPICAL CLIMATES 389 

vice for white men who make their home in the tropics to follow the 
dietetic habits of the natives and eat a comparatively very small quantity 
of animal food and large amounts of vegetables and fruits. From long 
centuries of usage in hot climates, the natives are accustomed to consume 
such large quantities of rice, pulse and other vegetables as a person unused 
to such food would be positively unable to take and to digest. The fact 
must also be taken into account that there should be a fairly definite ratio 
between the proportion of nitrogen and carbon in the alimentation. The 
natives of India are not influenced by poverty alone in their choice of 
food. Not only does necessity impel very large numbers of them to con- 
sume materials from the vegetable kingdom, but many are bound by 
religious scruples to avoid meat. To most of the millions of India the ox 
is sacred. The hog is anathema maranatha to the Hindus and the Mo- 
hammedans, as it was to the Egyptians of old and to the Hebrews of the 
present day (27). Some Hindus are strictly vegetarians, some take no 
animal food but a little milk and ghee, while others indulge in eggs, fish 
and game. The Sikhs eat mutton and goat flesh. The Hindus of Punjab 
eat no meat, but the Mohammedans living in the same region eat meat 
to a certain extent. 

It may be said that evidence seems to show that those natives who eat 
meat are finer and stronger specimens of humanity than those who desist 
from flesh consumption. Indeed, the Sikhs, who eat mutton and goat's 
flesh, are models of good physique and are easily the most vigorous race 
physically of the inhabitants of India. Nevertheless, it may be pointed 
out that the variations of climate in India are considerable and, as Sir 
Havelock Charles aptly says, "it is impossible to formulate exact rules for 
dietary in the tropics generally because the differences of climate entail 
modifications." While the same authority says nothing with regard to 
limiting the consumption of meat, he does say that "no cold meat whatever 
should come on the table," and that it is important that everything should 
come straight from the fire to the table, for then it cannot serve as a carrier 
of disease germs or parasites, and there need be no fear of cholera or dys- 
entery. Boiled water only should be drunk, and no salads of any kind 
should be used except with the greatest moderation. 

Fruits and Vegetables — As for fruit, that kind which possesses a rind 
that can be removed may, according to Tibbies, be eaten with impunity 
by a healthy man at any time of the year. On the other hand, fruits 
without a rind or peeling are incapable of being thoroughly cleansed and 
in consequence may be contaminated and dangerous to the consumer unless 
cooked before eating. Eollowing this rule, oranges, grapefruit, pears, 

125 



390 DIET IN HEALTH 

apples, bananas, mangoes, pineapples, custard apples, mangosteen, toma- 
toes, etc., may be eaten raw after having been peeled, but grapes, currants, 
strawberries and those fruits which cannot be peeled are on the taboo list 
until they have been cooked. Vegetables, such as cabbage, cauliflower, 
kidney beans, green peas, pumpkins and vegetable marrow, should be eaten 
fresh boiled. 

It can be stated, broadly speaking, that the alimentary principles are 
the same in the tropics as elsewhere, and, according to Simpson (28), the 
simple and for the most part vegetable diet of the indigenous inhabitants 
of the Tropics contains the same nutrient principles as the more complex 
and varied admixtures of animal and vegetable foodstuifs which form the 
ordinary diet of races living in colder climates under a modern civiliza- 
tion. In Europe, meat chiefly supplies the protein in the food ; bread, po- 
tatoes, etc., the carbohydrates ; and butter the fat ; while in tropical lands, 
the protein in the food is supplied mainly by fish, peas, beans and other 
legumes ; the carbohydrates by millet, cereals, manioc, yams, etc., and the 
fat by vegetable oils such as ground nut and olive oil. Butter ghee, of 
animal origin, is clarified butter made from the oil from the liver of fish 
and the fat of beef and mutton. It is a good butter, but its peculiar flavor 
renders it distasteful to a European palate. The vegetable oils are ex- 
pressed from various seeds and are used either for cooking purposes or in 
place of butter. 

Vegetable foods are represented by cereals, pulses, tubers, herbaceous 
vegetables and fruits. Of roots and tubers, the chief are the sweet potato, 
the yam, the tars and the cassava or manioc. According to Simpson, there 
is in the roots less than 1 per cent of protein and of fat, and their food 
value consists in the potash salts and the amount of starch which they con- 
tain, the latter constituent varying from 15 to nearly 30 per cent; tapioca 
contains about 86 per cent of starch. Rice, ragi, millet, maize, and other 
cereals form, as a rule, the staple foods of the tropics. They contain too 
small proportions of protein and oil to furnish sufficient protein by them- 
selves, and consequently their deficiencies are made up by an admixture 
of a small quantity of legumes. The pulses or peas and beans are particu- 
larly rich in nitrogenous, starchy and phosphorated principles. They 
contain, at least, 20 per cent of proteins. But, after all, for the great 
mass of the people of India — in fact, for the vast majority of the inhabi- 
tants of tropical Asia — rice is the staple food. There are two principal 
varieties, Burma and country rice. Burma rice, being highly milled, has 
the husk, pericarp and outer layer removed by machinery, stripping it of 
its protein, phosphorus and vitamines. Country rice is soaked in water 



DIET IN" TROPICAL CLIMATES 



391 



TABLE L— PROTEIN AND STARCH EQUIVALENTS IN CEREALS AND 

BUCKWHEATS (Church) » 
(The figures represent ounces and decimals of an ounce) 





1 oz. 


2oz. 


3oz. 


4 oz. 


5 oz. 


6oz. 


7 oz. 


8oz. 


9oz. 


Ragi: 

Protein 


.059 
.764 

.07 

.82 

.073 

.797 

.084 
.794 

.091 
.773 

.095 
,790 

.093 
.769 

.096 
.757 

.104 
.791 

.108 
.801 

.115 
.730 

.126 

.777 

.143 
.760 

.135 
.712 

.152 
.714 

.192 

.578 


.118 
1.528 

.14 
1.64 

.146 
1.594 

.168 
1.588 

.182 
1.546 

.190 
1.580 

.186 
1.538 

.192 
1.514 

.20a 
1.582 

.216 
1.602 

.230 
1.460 

.252 
1.554 

.286 
1.520 

.270 
1.424 

.304 
1.428 

.384 
1.156 


.177 
2.292 

.21 
2.46 

.219 
2.391 

.252 
2.382 

.273 
2.319 

.285 
2.370 

.279 
2.307 

.288 
2.271 

.312 
2.373 

.324 
2.403 

.345 
2.190 

.378 
2.221 

.429 
2.280 

.405 
2.136 

.456 
2.142 

.576 
1.734 


.236 
3.056 

.28 
3.28 

.292 
3.188 

.336 
3.176 

.364 
3.092 

.380 
3.160 

.372 
3.076 

.384 
3.028 

.416 
3.164 

.432 
3.204 

.460 
2.920 

.504 
3.108 

.572 
3.040 

.540 

2.848 

.608 
2.856 

.768 
2.312 


.295 
3.820 

.35 
4.10 

.365 
3.985 

.420 
3.970 

.455 
3.865 

.475 
3.950 

.465 
3.845 

.480 
3.785 

.520 
3.955 

.540 
4.005 

.575 
3.650 

.630 

3.885 

.715 
3.800 

.675 
3.560 

.760 
3.570 

.960 
2.890 


.354 
4.584 

.42 

4.92 

.438 
4.782 

.504 
4.764 

.546 
4.638 

.570 
4.740 

.558 
4.614 

.576 
4.542 

.624 
4.746 

.648 
4.806 

.690 
4.380 

.756 
4.662 

.858 
4.560 

.810 
4.272 

.912 
4.284 

1.152 
3.468 


.413 
4.348 

.49 
5.74 

.511 
5.579 

.588 
5.558 

.637 
5.411 

.665- 
5.430 

.651 
5.383 

.672 
5.299 

.728 
5.537 

.756 
5.607 

.805 
5.110 

.882 
5.439 

1.001 
5.320 

.945 
4.984 

1.064 
4.998 

1.344 
4.046 


.472 
6.112 

.56 
6.56 

.584 
6.376 

.672 
6.352 

.728 
6.184 

.760 
6.320 

.744 
6.152 

.768 
6.056 

.832 
6.328 

.864 
6.408 

.920 
5.840 

1.008 
6.216 

1.144 
6.080 

1.080 
5.696 

1.216 
5.712 

1.536 
4.624 


.531 


Starch 


6.876 


Koda: 

Protein 


.63 


Starch 


7.38 


Rice: 

Protein 


.657 


Starch 


7.173 


Sanwa: 

Protein 


.756 


Starch 


7.146 


Gundi : 

Protein 


.819 


Starch 


6.957 


Maize: 

Protein 


.885 


Starch 


7.110 


Joar: 

Protein 


.837 


Starch 


6.921 


Shama: 

Protein 


.864 


Starch 


6.813 


Bajra: 

Protein 


.936 


Starch 


7.119 


Kangni: 

Protein 


.972 


Starch 


7.209 


Barley: 

Protein 


1.035 


Starch 


6.570 


Chena: 

Protein 


1.134 


Starch 


6.993 


Amaranth : 

Protein 


1.287 


Starch 


6.840 


Wheat: 
Protein 


1.215 


Starch 


6.408 


Buckwheat : 

Protein 


1.368 


Starch 


6.426 


Quinoa: 

Protein 


1.728 


Starch 


5.202 







1 Simpson in "Tropical Hvgiene." 



392 



DIET IN HEALTH 



TABLE II.— PROTEIN AND STARCH EQUIVALENTS IN PULSE (Church) > 
(The figures represent ounces and decimals of an ounce) 





1 oz. 


2oz. 


3oz. 


4 oz. 


5 oz. 


6oz. 


7 oz. 


Soy Beans: 
















Protein 


.353 


.706 


1.059 


1.412 


1.765 


2.118 


2.471 


Starch 


.694 


1.388 


2.082 


2.776 


3.470 


4.164 


4.858 


Vetchlings: 
















Protein 


.319 


.638 


.957 


1.276 


1.595 


1.914 


2.233 


Starch 


.521 


1.042 


1.563 


2.084 


2.605 


3.126 


3.647 


Lupines: 
















Protein 


.317 


.634 


.951 


1.268 


1.585 


1.902 


2.219 


Starch 


.452 


.904 


1.356 


1.808 


2.260 


2.712 


3.164 


Vetches: 
















Protein 


.315 


.630 


.945 


1.260 


1.575 


1.890 


2.205 


Starch 


.497 


.994 


1.491 


1.988 


2.485 


2.982 


3.479 


Guar: 




* 












Protein 


.298 


.596 


.894 


1.192 


1.490 


1.788 


2.086 


Starch 


.494 


.988 


1.482 


1.976 


2.470 


2.964 


3.458 


Lentils: 
















Protein 


.249 


.498 


.747 


.996 


1.245 


1,494 


1.743 


Starch 


.595 


1.190 


1.785 


2.380 


2.975 


3.570 


4.165 


Peanuts: 
















Protein 


.245 


.490 


.735 


.980 


1.225 


1.470 


1.715 


Starch 


1.267 


2.534 


3.801 


5.068 


6.335 


7.602 


8.869 


Moth: 
















Protein 


.238 


.476 


.714 


.952 


1.190 


1.428 


1.666 


Starch 


.580 


1.160 


1.740 


2.320 


2.900 


3.480 


4.060 


Peas: 
















Protein 


.236 


.472 


.708 


.944 


1.180 


1.416 


1.652 


Starch 


.575 


1.150 


1.725 


2.300 

• 


2.875 


3.450 


4.025 


Catiang-beans: 




Protein 


.231 


.462 


.693 


.924 


1.155 


1.386 


1.617 


Starch 


.578 


1.156 


1.734 


2.312 


2.890 


3.468 


4.046 


Haricots: 
















Protein 


.230 


.460 


.690 


.920 


1.150 


1.380 


1.610 


Starch 


.576 


1.152 


1.728 


2.304 


2.880 


3.456 


4.032 


Mung-beans: 
















Protein 


.227 


.454 


.681 


.908 


1.135 


1.362 


1.587 


Starch 


.608 


1.216 


1.824 


2.432 


3.040 


3.648 


4.276 


Horsegram: 
















Protein 


.225 


.450 


.675 


.900 


1.125 


1.350 


1.575 


Starch 


.603 


1.206 


1.809 


2.412 


3.015 


3.618 


4.221 


Lablab-beans: 
















Protein 


.224 


.448 


.672 


.896 


1.120 


1.344 


1.568 


Starch 


.574 


1.148 


1.722 


2.296 


2.870 


3.444 


4.018 


Pigeon-peas: 




Protein 


.203 


.406 


.609 


.812 


1.015 


1.218 


1.421 


Starch 


.596 


1.192 


1.788 


2.384 


2.980 


3.376 


4.172 


Chick-peas: 
















Protein 


.195 


.390 


.585 


.780 


.975 


1.170 


1.365 


Starch 


.643 


1.286 


1.929 


2.572 


3.215 


3.858 


4.501 


Inga-beans: 
















Protein 


.176 


.352 


.528 


.704 


.880 


1.056 


1.232 


Starch 


.807 


1.614 


2.421 


3.228 


4.035 


4.842 


5.649 



1 Simpson in "Tropical Hygiene." 



MET IN TROPICAL CLIMATES 



393 



for at least a day and niglit, and then strained and dried in the snn, after 
which the husk is roughly removed. It therefore retains most of its peri- 
carp and outer layers, which contain protein, phosphates and vitamines. 
Rice is the poorest of the cereals in protein and mineral" matter. On the 
other hand, it has the advantage of occurring in small and easily digested 
grains. Boiled rice swells and absorbs nearly five times its weight of 
water, while some of its mineral constituents are lost by solution. Rice, 
being largely starch, is only in very small part digested in the stomach, 
but Lukis and Rlackham state that its solid constituents, being quite com- 
pletely digested in the small intestine, enter the blood almost as completely 
as those of meat — two and one-half ounces cooked by boiling requiring 
three and a half hours for disposal. Practically none of the starch is 
lost, whereas the waste of protein foods amounts to about 19 per cent. 
It follows from this that rice is one of the foods which leaves the smallest 
residue in the intestine, a property which gives it a considerable value in 
some cases of disease. 

As Simpson points out, in the construction of European standard diets 
the basis has generally been a person weighing 154 pounds and doing a 
day's work of 300 foot-tons, or about 2 foot-tons per pound of body- 
weight. In Indian and Japanese dietary tables the lesser body-weight 
of 105 pounds has usually formed the basis, the 2 foot-tons of work being 
retained. 

Church gives the following standard diets for Indians weighing 105 
pounds, expressed in avoirdupois ounces and decimals of an ounce: 



CHURCH'S STANDARD DIET FOR INDIANS 



Ration 


Protein 


Oil 


Starch 


Starch 
equivalent 


Nutrient 
ratio 


Bare sustenance 


2.1 

2.954 

3.635 


0.752 
1.412 
2.506 


7.520 
12.531 
11.190 


9.250 
15.779 
16.954 


1 :4.34 


Moderate work 


1:5.34 


Hard work 


1 :4.66 







Lukis and Blackham give the following as the scale in a Bengal jail: 

Burma or country rice 20 ounces 

Different dais 6 " 

Vegetables 6 " 

Flour, Wheat or Indian Corn 10 or 12 ounces 

These amounts represent only what is absolutely essential. Perhaps 
a better standard is furnished by the war ration of the Indian sepoy, 



394 DIET IN HEALTH 

■which generally consists of atta or rice, 2 pounds, or sometimes meat or 
fish, 2 pounds; ghee, 2 ounces; dal, 4 ounces; salt, % ounce; also meat 
and condiments on payment. In some expeditions onions and dried man- 
goes have been issued. The following ration has been suggested for Aden 
camel drivers: Biscuit or rice, 1^2 pounds; dates, wet, 1 pound; ghee, 2 
ounces ; sugar, 2 ounces ; coffee, ^ ounce ; salt, y-2, ounce ; onions, 2 ounces, 
or dal, % ounce. 

Church, quoted by Simpson, gives several examples of rations, viz.: 
A dietary for moderate work, according to this author, calls for 2.954 oz. 
protein, 1.412 oz. oil, and 12.531 oz. starch, the starch equivalent of which 
is 15.779. Soy beans, 5 oz., furnish protein 1.765, starch 3.470. Rice, 16 
oz., furnishes protein 1.163, starch 12.752. Total protein 2.928. Total 
starch 16.222. As the oil, however, in this ration is but 1 oz. and should 
be 1.4 oz., it will be necessary to add the lacking four-tenths. To do this 
without disturbing the ration, IVo oz. of rice should be withdrawn, and 
1/4 oz. of soy beans added. Then the amounts will be, soy beans, 51/^ 
oz., furnish protein, 1.942, starch 3.817. Rice, 141/0 oz., furnishes pro- 
tein .954, starch 11.552, oil .4 oz., the oil being equal to starch .920. This 
ration has, therefore, 2.896 oz. protein and the equivalent of 16.289 
starch. 

Church lays down two guiding principles, one is to keep down the 
legume constituent to an amount not exceeding 7 ounces per diem, and 
if possible not more than 5 ounces per diem ; the other is to ensure the 
presenceof a sufficiency of protein (or albuminoids, as he calls them) by 
increasing the cereal constituents of the ration, even if in so doing the 
quantity of starch required be raised above the necessary amount. 

Milk. — Manson(29), referring to the milk supply in tropical coun- 
tries, says, in part, "that in many tropical countries, such as West Africa, 
milk cannot be obtained except in preserved form. In other countries, as 
India, cow's, goat's or buffalo's milk can be readily procured. Buffalo's 
milk is very rich in fat, there being nearly twice as much as in cow's 
milk. It is also richer in proteins, though not so rich in lactose. It is 
less digestible, has a peculiar smell and flavor, and, as a rule, is not suited 
for invalids. Goat's milk differs less from cow's milk; but as the goat is 
susceptible to Malta fever, and the Micrococcus melitensis is discharged 
in the milk of infected animals, it is better not to use the milk unless 
efficiently pasteurized or well boiled." The Board of Agriculture and 
Fisheries of Great Britain published, in the early part of February, 1916, 
a circular relating to goat's milk, in which it was stated that it is, as a 
rule, a most wholesome milk, and that its flavor, if the food of the animal 



DIET m TEOPICAL CLIMATES 395 

is regulated, is not any real drawback to its employment. Moreover, goat's 
milk is easily digested by children, and is far less likely than cow's milk 
to contain tubercle bacilli. The composition of cow's milk and goat's mi)k 
is much the same, although goat's milk is superior as regards fat, which is 
an advantage. 

Where cow's milk is available it should be used in preference to pre- 
served milk. In the tropics, as stated previously, unless milk can be con- 
sumed fresh from the cow, it must be boiled, or efficiently pasteurized, 
and thus rendered slightly less digestible and deprived of certain of its 
nutritive properties. Manson states that it is necessary to boil milk in 
the tropics, ''because (a) under tropical conditions, the multiplication of 
bacteria is so rapid that milk quickly turns sour; (h) the natives fre- 
quently add water to the milk and are apt to be careless as regards the 
washing and scalding of the utensils used; (c) the water used for such 
dilution and for washing utensils is usually drawn from shallow pools or 
wells liable to contamination, especially as inspection and regulation of the 
milk supplies in the tropics are very lax; (d) obvious impurities are 
strained off with old rags or articles of clothing actually in use; (c) 
cattle are often fed on garbage of all kinds." 

The alternative to boiling milk, when it is intended for consumption 
by Europeans, or for use in hospitals, is to keep the cows under the best 
sanitary conditions possible and to be sur^ that they are milked under 
strict sanitary precautions. It is patent that the difficulties in the way 
of insuring a comparatively pure milk are so great in tropical countries 
as to be nearly insuperable. Moreover, in many districts fresh milk is not 
available. It therefore follows that canned milk is largely used. Manson 
is of the opinion that the sweetened milks should be avoided for the use of 
invalids, and thinks that the best tinned milks are those in which the milk 
is not reduced to a paste but merely concentrated and is still in fluid form. 
The can must be carefully examined to see that there has been no previous 
puncture or bulging, and the milk must be odorless. A can once opened 
must be used quickly. 

Meats. — Simpson, unlike Lukis and Blackham, is inclined to agree 
with the views of Chittenden that most people eat more protein food than 
is requisite to preserve health and maintain energy. But it must be taken 
into consideration that, since Simpson wrote his work on diet in the 
tropics, the investigations of other workers appear to have demonstrated 
with greater or less certainty that Chittenden's views are not altogether 
borne out by facts, and are in some degree misleading. Simpson draws 
from a study of Chittenden's experiments the conclusion that not only 



396 DIET IN HEALTH 

does the European standard of diet err in the direction of allowing too 
great an amount of proteins, but argues that greater efficiency in working 
power, and a better feeling of well being and health are attained by a 
smaller amount of proteins than with the excessive amounts taken in ordi- 
nary diets, which, as a rule, contain even more than outlined in the 
standard diets. He thinks that the evidence put forward in favor of these 
views is strong, and is supported by the fact that nations such as the 
Japanese or Indians, living a simpler life, and more given to vegetarianism 
than the Europeans or Americans, are maintained in health on a much 
smaller amount of protein food than these standards indicate is necessary. 
According to Simpson, although man requires a mixed diet, with some 
reservations relating to custom and climate, it is a matter of indifference 
whether the mixed diet is obtained wholly from vegetable products, or 
partly from animal and partly from vegetable products, and it is further 
his opinion that whether grains or meat shall enter most largely into the 
diet depends a great deal on climate, on the habits of the people, whether 
indolent or active, and on other circumstances. 

However, although this authority seems to favor a vegetarian diet for 
natives and a diet for white men in the tropics in which the carbohydrates 
preponderate, the force of his argument is somewhat lessened, so far as the 
natives are concerned, by the following statement made by him. The 
inhabitants of hot climates are generally content with milk products, 
legumes, fruits and sugars, but though cereal grains, as a rule, form the 
chief food of such people, rice being the staple wherever there is plenty 
of water and rain, still there are considerable numbers whose food is 
largely from the animal kingdom. Thus, the Arabs of East Africa, the 
Pampas Indians, and the Abyssinians are often quoted as instances of 
consumers of large quantities of meat. They are all very active races. 
Indeed, as pointed out before, the mass of the inhabitants of India who 
exist mainly on rice and some other cereals are, generally speaking, miser- 
able specimens of humanity, exceedingly prone to infection, and so de- 
ficient in vitality that when attacked by disease they die like flies. The 
vigorous races of India are those who eat flesh, not to excess, but still suf- 
ficient in amount to supply the protein needs of the organism. It is also 
worthy of notice that the Japanese, who of all the Asiatic peoples are 
especially capable, physically and mentally, do not, by any means, restrict 
themselves to a vegetarian diet. It is true, though, that at one time the 
Japanese might have been termed a vegetarian people, but this was more 
from necessity than choice, and they have always been great fish eaters. 
During the Kusso-Japanese war, when the Japanese soldiers were justljj 



DIET IN TKOPICAL CLIMATES 397 

landed for their remarkable powers of endurance, their capabilities in this 
direction were attributed to their being vegetarians. When, however, the 
matter was more closely investigated, it was found that the Japanese 
doldiers' rations comprised a certain amount of meat. 

A point, too, to which attention is not sufficiently paid, is that while 
diet must be modified to some extent to adapt it to the physiological re- 
quirements of varying climates, to insist that a white man in the tropics 
must eat the same food as the native is carrying this principle to absurd 
lengths. Evidence, and recent evidence in particular, would seem to go 
to show that even the native who has been so long accustomed to a carbo- 
hydrate diet that it has become a i&xed habit, is all the better for some meat. 
Simpson takes the stand that the most probable defect in the diet of a 
European in the tropics is that it is too nitrogenous and fatty, and illus- 
trates this contention by an instance drawn from history or tradition. 
When the Aryans first descended into the plains of India they were meat 
eaters, but the experience of the centuries evidently taught them to be 
vegetarians, or to be very sparing in the amount of meat they ate, and at 
the same time to become total abstainers. This, says Simpson, is an expe- 
rience and a lesson which Europeans who go to the tropics are inclined to 
ignore. Accustomed to living well in their own country, on large quanti- 
ties of meat, fats and rich foods, to which wines and spirits are added 
in considerable quantities, they are tempted to follow, as closely as possible, 
a similar diet in the tropics. This procedure is generally followed by 
injurious results due to want of adjustment of the diet to the new con- 
ditions, and is often disastrous to the health, as attested by the history of 
the British occupation of India. Within recent years an adjustment has 
taken place, and the health and mortality of Europeans have undergone 
a great change for the better. Emphasis may again be laid on the point 
that the present inhabitants of India eat mainly carbohydrate food simply 
from economical reasons or because their religion forbids them to consume 
meat, and, as stated before, those of the natives who eat meat in India are 
greatly superior in physique and in powers of endurance to the vege- 
tarians. 

With regard to the too indulgent habits of the white men who come 
to the tropics, it is no doubt true that they eat and drink more than is 
good for them, though this was more frequently the case in former times 
than at the present. But as Sir Patrick Manson(29), who is probably 
the greatest living authority on such matters, says, the effects of dietetic 
errors In Europeans in the tropics are, on the whole, more marked than 
would be the case from similar errors in temperate climates. This is 



398 DIET IN HEALTH 

especially so as regards the abuse of alcohol and condiments, and also as 
regards the deficiency of fresh vegetables, of fruits and occasionally of 
meat. Manson has at once placed his finger on the dietetic error of the 
European in the tropics which most tends to injure his digestive organs, 
upset his nervous system, impair his health generally, and sap his vital 
. forces. This is the too great consumption of alcohol and condiments. It 
must be borne in mind that the meat one gets in the tropics is not like the 
meat of temperate climes. The animals there are not well fed, and their 
meat is usually stringy, tough and of an insipid flavor. The consequence 
is that more thorough cooking is resorted to. This in itself destroys or les- 
sens the already somewhat meager nutritive properties of the meat, and, in 
addition, to give some zest to the food the dishes are frequently highly 
spiced and a larger variety of methods of preparation are employed. The 
result is that, while the bulk of the food taken is as much or even more 
than in Europe, the good effects of the protein material are greatly de- 
creased by its being taken in indigestible forms. In fact, food so cooked 
and spiced often does more harm than good. Again, the fruits are some- 
times comparatively dry and tasteless, as is apt to be the case in all tropical 
climates where they mature quickly, and the vegetables are liable to be 
indigestible and of inferior quality. 

It must, then, be taken into consideration that in the tropics neither 
meat nor foods from the vegetable kingdom are of the same high standard 
as in temperate climes. When injudicious cooking and the too liberal use 
of condiments are added to these drawbacks, it may be well understood 
why digestive disorders prevail. Nevertheless, with all dietetic and culi- 
nary obstacles with which the white man has to contend, the fact stands 
out clearly that he possesses a resisting power to infection and disease 
which is absent from the native. Moreover, it may be once again 
insisted upon that the meat-eating native has a superior vitality to the 
vegetarian inhabitant of tropical Asia, which goes to show that the ma- 
jority of the indigenous population of the tropics do not eat enough pro- 
tein material. 

Sweets. — A very interesting and instructive feature in connection with 
diet in the tropics is that Europeans born and bred in tropical lands have 
less desire for meat and a special predeliction, sometimes amounting to a 
craving, for sugar. Inhabitants of the Far East and the dwellers in hot 
climates generally exhibit an excessive desire for sweet things. When 
presents are made in Asia, they usually take the form of sweetmeats, and 
the ladies of the harem are depicted, as a rule, lolling on couches and for- 
ever eating sweets. No doubt this craving has a physiological basis. 



DIET IN" IKOPICAL CLIMATES 399 

Sweets take the place to some extent of protein material, or rather are 
protein sparers, being rapidly oxidized. In the Boer war the British 
soldiers were supplied with a daily ration of chocolate, for it is known 
to liberate energy rapidly with the least possible strain upon the digestive 
system. Sugar, an almost pure soluble carbohydrate, is perhaps the best 
food for this purpose. Mosso first demonstrated that sugar lessened 
fatigue, while Vaughan. Harley showed that it was an excellent spur to 
energy with which extraordinary muscular exertion could be made. 

Simpson mentions that among the troops engaged in Porto Rico and 
in the Philippines whose appetites had become impaired, there was a 
craving for candy and sweets which was relieved by a supply of these 
Articles. Numerous experiments have demonstrated that fatigue is more 
quickly relieved by sugar than by any other kind of food, and in the 
tropics, where exhaustion, by reason of the heat and the actinic rays of the 
sun, is most likely to occur, the value of sugar can scarcely be over- 
estimated. 

Diet and Disease. — When writing or speaking of diet in the tropics one 
must be careful to avoid the faults of exaggeration. To assert that a white 
man should eat as much meat or more than in a temperate climate would 
be, perhaps, to sin in this direction. On the other hand, to aver that a 
strictly carbohydrate diet was the one most suitable for the white dweller 
in a hot climate would be to err even more grossly. Although white men 
have dwelt in the tropics for generations, scientific men still agree to 
differ as to the form of diet best adapted to the climate. Recent investi- 
gations appear to prove that a mixed or modified diet is not only the best 
for white men but for the natives themselves. It is absolutely certain that 
rice, and especially milled rice, the form of food most largely eaten by the 
natives, is deficient in nitrogenous matter and over bulky in carbonaceous 
matter. The best rice is also deficient in phosphoric acid, lime and other 
mineral matters. As a matter of fact, the diet of the natives is responsi- 
ble for lowered vitality and is directly responsible, according to many 
authorities, for beriberi. 

Accordingly, diet may be a direct cause of disease. Excess of protein 
material in the diet of the European, and deficiency of proteins in that 
of the poorer classes of natives, and in some institutions, are instances 
of this. 

In the prevention of disease, it goes without saying that diet plays a 
role of the utmost importance. Putting on one side the chronic diseases 
which are likely to occur in the tropics from errors of diet more quickly 
than in colder lands, it must be remembered that food contamination is 



400 DIET IN HEALTH 

rife in hot climates. Flies in sncli countries are indeed a veritable plague, 
and if extreme care be not taken to protect food, epidemics will be spread 
far and wide. Human excreta are less thoroughly dealt with and provide 
a remarkably favorable means by which flies may convey disease. Cholera, 
as well as typhoid fever, has been shown to be carried in this manner, 
and flies are under suspicion of being concerned in the dissemination of 
other diseases. 

Canned Foods. — Before leaving the subject of diet in the tropics, it 
may not be out of place to consider briefly the question of canned foods. 
In the torrid lands, for obvious reasons, canned foods are largely con- 
sumed. Of course, they are more frequently used than they should be, 
for their nutritive value is less than that of fresh meat and their vitamine 
content is practically entirely destroyed. There is a certain amount of risk 
of metallic poisoning, but the gravest charge that can be brought against 
the indiscriminate use of canned meat is that it is always difficult to deter- 
mine how long the food has been tinned. The temptation to send abroad 
tins already old is too great for some unscrupulous dealers. In any event, 
tins of meat which have been kept for a considerable period are retailed 
in all parts of the tropics with the result that serious digestive disorders 
are fre(]uent, and even ptomaine poisoning is by no means rare. 

Conclusions. — In the light of the most recent researches, it would seem 
to have been demonstrated that a goodly amount of protein material should 
be eaten by the white dwellers in the tropics, and that it is not in the 
interests of health that the protein part of the diet should be unduly de- 
creased. It would be manifestly unwise for the white man to endeavor to 
subsist on the form of food eaten by the native. A modified diet is best 
suited to the bodily and mental requirements of the white man in the 
tropics, but as in temperate climates he must be largely guided by his 
mode of life. Such a diet should not contain so much protein matter as 
in colder climates, but the carbohydrates and proteins should be judiciously 
distributed in proportion to the individual's needs. In the case of white 
men, at any rate, most of the protein material should be supplied by meat. 
Meat should not be cooked too long nor should condiments be added to any 
great extent. Great care should be exercised in protecting foodstuffs, and 
especially meat and milk, from contamination or infection, and milk and 
meat should be consumed as fresh as is possible. Moderation in eating 
should be the slogan of the white man in the tropics, and if the above rules 
are carefully observed, there is no reason, at least so far as diet is con- 
cerned, why he should not enjoy good health. It must be remembered, 
however, that he must accommodate his diet, to a certain extent, to the 



ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGES IN THE TROPICS 401 

variations of climate, which are more frequent in tropical than in tem- 
perate zones. 

Into the question of the diet of the natives, it is superfluous to enter 
at length. Sufiice it to reiterate that investigations seem to show that those 
who eat meat are more vigorous than those who are vegetarians. It will 
be observed that in this section the diet of India has been mainly discussed. 
This is because more is accurately known of the diet question in India 
than in other tropical parts of the world. Still it is known that, in Africa 
and in other tropical climates, those natives who eat meat are stronger 
than those who subsist solely on vegetable foods. The subject has been 
treated in a broad way and only general principles have been laid down, 
and while the authors are conscious that the matter has been dealt with 
somewhat discursively, it is hoped that the information given may prove 
of some practical value. 

ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGES IN THE TROPICS 

The question of alcohol as a beverage or as a medicine is a vexed one 
among scientific and medical. men, and has been the cause of a good deal 
of acrimonious discussion. There are those who, like Sir Victor Horsley, 
hold that it is a poison in any circumstance, and contend that its value as 
a medicinal remedy is nil. Again there are those like Karl Pearson, At- 
water and others, who deny that alcohol is absolutely useless, and argue that 
it has a food value and that, when taken in discretion, it by no means 
always does harm, and may, on occasions, do good. Pearson appears to 
have proved that the sins of the fathers are not visited on the children, that 
is, so far as the hereditary influence of alcohol is concerned. He made a 
series of careful investigations and seems to have demonstrated that the 
children of habitual drinkers differ but little, if at all, from those of the 
abstainer or from the ordinary moderate drinking individual. However, 
this assertion and the investigations upon which it was based were severely 
criticised by Horsley and his followers, and it does appear probable that 
the offspring of drunkards exhibit certain inherited physical and mental 
characteristics of an abnormal nature. They have handed down to them, 
as a rule, a somewhat unstable nervous system, which renders them more 
prone to the effects of stimulating drinks than their fellows v^ho have not 
had as their progenitors those addicted to the excessive use of alcohol. 
However, alcohol and its effects have been exhaustively discussed from the 
scientific standpoint in the chapter on "Stimulants," and, as recapitulation 
is a weariness of the flesh, we will refrain from offending our readers in 
this respect. 



402 DIET IN HEALTH 

The subject of the use of alcohol in the tropics will be gone over 
briefly, and its pros and cons considered impartially. For some time now, 
it has been taught by the majority of medical men who have had such a 
varied and lengthy experience of life in the tropics as to warrant them to 
speak with authority, that alcohol wreaks more injury on the human 
organism than in temperate climes. This may be so, but the evidence 
forthcoming does not appear to be entirely convincing. It is assuredly 
true that in bygone days both meat eating and heavy drinking were the 
custom in the tropics, as elsewhere, and that the consequences were in a 
high degree injurioiis. Even now it is said that in some tropical lands, 
East Africa, for instance, the white men eat unsuitable food, drink to 
excess, and suffer accordingly. In India this is the exception rather than 
the rule. There the white man is generally absteminous with correspond- 
ingly good results. Exactly the same thing, however, has occurred in 
J]urope, and especially in Great Britain. It is not so very many years 
ago, in fact, almost within the memory of the older members of the com- 
munity, that gross feeding and heavy drinking were habitual with a large 
proportion of the prosperous and well-to-do in the United Kingdom. In 
recent years such habits have fallen into disrepute, and, although spirit 
and beer drinking have prevailed in the British Isles, members of the pros- 
perous and well-to-do class, from which the white civil officials of India 
and the officers of the Army are drawn, no longer gorge themselves with 
food and drink. As said before, both in India and Europe the results of 
this moderation have been exhibited in superior efficiency of mind and 
body. 

However, the point is as to whether alcohol is more harmful in tropical 
climates than in temperate countries. Manson says that the abuse of 
alcohol and condiments is a fniitful cause of digestive derangements 
and of various diseases in tropical climates, but so is the abuse of 
alcohol and of indigestible foods in colder lands. The majority of authori- 
ties are of the opinion that alcohol is more injurious in the tropics or, at 
any rate, they strongly urge against the use of alcohol and usually advise 
white men sojourning there to l>e abstainers. 

The late Dr. Charles Woodruff, who, as mentioned previously, com- 
bated the crystallized view that the meat part of the white men's dietary 
should be decrease<l in the tropics, also stoutly defended the use of alcohol 
in strict moderation in both the tropics and in other portions of the ulobe. 
Among the numerous statistics he brings forward and the many authori- 
ties he cites, is a statement marie by Dr. Leon Meunier of Paris, published 
in the Cosmos, July 14th, 1903, that with regard to small amounts of 



ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGES IN THE TROPICS 403 

alcohol the experience of centuries was to the effect that such an amount 
is not only harmless, but is a beneficial food, which can take the place of 
an equal energy in butter and similar fuels, irrespective of the state of rest, 
work or any circumstance relating to the consumer. Woodruff goes on 
to say that the great majority of the medical profession have reached the 
decision that alcohol is like every other chemical, whether it be a poison 
like strychnin or a food like protein; that is to say, there is an amount 
below which it is not a poison and above which it is poisonous. Wood- 
ruff's array of figures and authorities seems to bear out his own view, that 
in the terribly depressing, anemic conditions brought about by living in a 
tropical climate, against whose onslaughts he has no protection like the 
dark-skinned native, a white man who is not assisted by a little alcohol is 
more harmed by the climate than the man who is so aided. 

Simpson does not commit himself to the expression of any very decided 
opinion on the subject, but gives this guarded statement, that it is safest 
for the newcomer to abstain from alcoholic beverages, especially so if much 
exposure to the sun is to be endured. Tea and cofFee are the customary 
drinks of many of the inhabitants of the tropics, and where these are not 
in use, water is generally the only beverage. He thinks it is well to 
follow the custom of the country in this respect. Wlien alcoholic drinks 
are used — and they are often found necessary to the European after he 
has been some years in the tropics — they should only be taken at meals, 
preferably with the dinner in the evening, and then in extreme mod- 
eration. 

Lukis and Blackham are of the opinion that "a certain amount of 
alcohol may be safely consumed as a heat-producing»food." This amount 
is certainly very limited, not more than one or, at the outside, two ounces 
in twenty-four hours. Its unsuitability as a food is shown by its other 
effects on the body which are so well known as to need no description, and 
which, in fact, have been fully described in the section of this book dealing 
with stimulants. It is allowable in some cases when, for some reason, in- 
sufficient food is taken. When sufficient food is taken, alcohol is unneces- 
sary, and when excess of food is taken the addition of alcohol may do 
serious harm. It may also be said — and this point has' been elaborated in 
the section on alcohol — that this stimulant is exceedingly valuable in 
cases of exhaustion arising from sickness or fatigue, because of its anes- 
thetic effect. This property of alcohol would seem to have been proved 
times without number. When very hard work has been done under ad- 
verse climatic conditions, and when extreme fatigue supervenes as a result 
of the excessive expenditure of muscular energy, and the vital forces are 



404 DIET IN HEALTH 

brought to a very low ebb, alcohol acts as an anesthetic and one forgets 
his depression. 

However, the present tendency perhaps of scientific and military 
authorities is to frown upon the habitual use of alcohol in the tropics and 
to deprecate even its use as a spur in cases of exhaustion. Kitchener, it is 
said, would not permit soldiers under his command in the Soudan cam- 
paign to take alcohol, and substituted tea, coffee or cocoa. Sir R. Have- 
lock Charles, a soldier of wide tropical experience, recorded his opinion 
in The Practitioner, 1910, that alcohol is absolutely unnecessary, and if 
taken at all should be as a luxury. Tibbies says that it is admitted by all 
authorities that the use of alcohol in the tropics is a matter requiring 
grave consideration, and that men are better in health and can perform 
their duties more satisfactorily without it. Cantlie wrote that the natives 
of warm climates, both by their religion and their habits, shun alcohol. 
This statement must be taken with a certain amount of reservation. The 
Mohammedan religion is against the use of alcohol, but in India and else- 
where many Mohammedans drink when they can afford to do so, and pos- 
sibly the chief deterrent to the use of alcohol is the extreme poverty of 
the mass of the tropical population. 

All those who have studied the question either from the practical or 
scientific standpoint are agreed on the point that if alcohol be taken at all 
in the tropics, it should be drunk in moderation and even sparingly. 
Lukis and Blackham say that in hot, moist (that is, tropical) climates, 
beer can rarely be taken with impunity, but that wo harm is done by light 
wines (white or red), champagne and good whiskey well diluted and 
taken either with meals or after excessive fatigue in small quantities. On 
the contrary, it is evident that a weak "peg" or glass of wine witli the 
evening meal is beneficial to the harassed Indian official at the end of a 
strenuous day's work. It promotes digestion and has a soothing effect on 
the nerves. What does most harm in India and in other parts of Asia 
where white men congregate is the practice of "pegging," or of taking 
"short drinks" at the club bar before dinner. It is obvious that spirits, 
if as harmful as many scientists say, are less harmful when freely diluted. 
Therefore, when drunk customarily, and not wholly employed as a spur 
in cases of exhaustion, they should be well diluted and taken in strict 
moderation. Tibbies says "that al)ont half a pint of red wine or one pint 
of beer daily is considered a fair allowance, but he is of the opinion that 
even such a modicum is better replaced by tea, coffee, cocoa or their sub- 
stitutes, caffer tea, dorn-the, gooranut, kola, kat, mote, guarana, and other 
native beverages." Natives in all tropical climates, when not debarred by 



ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGES IN THE TROPICS 405 

poverty or restrained by religious scruples, drink spirituous beverages of 
domestic manufacture. These are made from any article of food which 
will ferment. Whether made in South America, in Asia, or in Africa, 
they are, generally speaking, deadly to the natives and more deadly to the 
white men who are foolish enough to partake of them. This has been 
proven by the disastrous experience of American soldiers in the 
Philippines. 

Native drinks are many and various. Doasta distilled from rice liquor 
is sold in Calcutta. Mann states that it is 20 degrees under proof, but 
contains 0.56 per cent of higher alcohols or 31.1 grams per gallon. Sugar 
refuse yields a liquor known as Shajehanjur rum, which is sold 53 to 56 
degrees under proof. In Bengal and Assam, the flowers of Bassia latifolia 
contribute a spirit named Mahua. It is sold 22 to 50 degrees under proof, 
and contains 0.004 to 0.33 per cent of higher alcohols and is a very poi- 
sonous and deleterious concoction even to the natives. The notorious 
arrack is distilled from the sap of the palm tree in India and Ceylon, but 
the characteristic which has given it its evil name is the fact that it is 
frequently drugged. Other vile beverages are fairly common among the 
inhabitants of Asia and other tropical countries. Some of these native 
drinks are less harmful than the European spirits, but some of them are 
most pernicious. 

It is difficult, indeed impossible, to write dogmatically with regard to 
the effects of the imbibing of alcohol in the tropics, or to state definitely 
that it is more injurious to the human being there than in temperate 
climates. Drinking to excess is harmful everywhere, and its baneful 
effects are too plainly evident in every civilized land. Two reasons, .and 
these not scientific ones, why white men should be abstemious as regards 
alcohol, in the tropics, are that by so doing they set a good example to the 
natives and that if they drink more than is good for them they are apt 
to deteriorate more quickly in the tropics than in a colder climate. 

While the last word has not been said on the question of alcohol as 
a beverage, it must be confessed that the weight of scientific evidence is 
on the side of those who contend that the use of alcohol is almost always 
contra-indicated. Some, like Horsley, say always. Nevertheless, there is 
a large number of men, few of whom perhaps are of so high a scientific 
caliber as the opponents of alcohol, but who have had more practical expe- 
rience, who hold that alcohol has its value and that its use as a beverage 
should not be entirely barred. Problems of this kind cannot be wholly 
solved in the laboratory. The argument that, because an undue proportion 
of a population undergoes deterioration,' mental and physical, through 

126 



406 DIET IN HEALTH 

drink, it should be abolished, may be good and sound from the scientific 
point ol view, but it may not be an altogether practical position to take. 

There is one feature in connection with the consumption of alcoholic 
beverages in the tropics of which little notice seems to have been taken. 
This is, that, owing to the heat, elimination and excretion are more pro- 
fuse and rapid by far than in cold climates. Consequently it is reasonable 
to suppose that alcohol will pass out of the system more quickly and do 
less harm than in more frigid lands. It is acknowledged that the most 
injurious effects of alcohol are on the nervous system, rendered possible 
by prolonged poisoning. 

Dr. Winfield Scott Hall points out (30) that the theory that alcohol is 
a food is disproved by recent researches. All life activity is accompanied 
by oxidation, and all oxidation by waste. Any sparing action which alco- 
hol may possess is easily accounted for as being in harmony with its gen- 
erally accepted narcotic action. Narcotic action is followed by decreased 
activity, therefore decreased oxidation, therefore "sparing." Nobody has 
contended, much less proven, that this so-called sparing action is an econ- 
omy of food material in connection with activity. With the influence of 
alcohol as without it, a given amount of life activity is accompanied by a 
given consumption of body substance, and it is inane and foolish to con- 
tend that the sparing action of alcohol, due to its narcotic effect, should 
be accepted as an argument proving its food value. 

The oxidation of alcohol liberates heat energy, but this energy cannot 
be utilized by the body, even for the maintenance of body temperature. 
If a food is defined as a substance which, taken into the body, is assimi- 
lated and used either to build up or repair body structure, or to be 
oxidized in the tissues to liberate the energies used by the tissues in their 
normal activity, then alcohol is not a food. If alcohol is not a real food, 
what is the significance of its oxidation ? It has long been known that 
the liver produces oxidases, and that it is the site of active oxidation of 
mid-products of catabolism, of toxins, and of other toxic substances. 
Alcohol, while usually formed as an excretion of the yeast plant, is also 
found as a mid-product of tissue. It belongs clearly, then, to the group of 
excreta. Experiments conducted by Dr. Reid Hunt and other experi- 
ments carried out by Dr. Beebe prove with sufficient clearness that alcohol 
is a toxic substance and not a food in any sense. With regard to alco- 
holic beverages. Hall has this to say : 

Alcoholic beverages contain from 3 per cent to 40 per cent of ethyl alcohol. 
Beers and ales contain the lower percentages of alcohol; whiskey, rum and brandy 
the higher percentages, while wines are about midway between. 



ALCOHOL AND BEVEKAGES IN THE TROPICS 407 

No alcoholic beverage has so low a percentage of alcohol as to be with- 
out danger. The amount imbibed by the addict is usually so much that 
the alcohol taken exceeds the ' 'physiological limit," that is, there is more 
alcohol taken than can be oxidized in the liver, so that there is an escape 
into the general system not only of deleterious toxins, which should have 
been oxidized in the liver, but also of the excess of alcohol, which is car- 
ried to brain and to muscles, seriously disturbing their normal activity 
and decreasing their efficiency. 

The evidence, on the whole, gathered from the views of authorities on 
tropical hygiene, appears to point in the direction of abstinence from 
liquor or strict moderation in its use in the tropics. The arguments, how- 
ever, in support of complete abstention from alcoholic beverages are no 
more decisive as regards the tropics than they are with respect to temper- 
ate climates. It is true that scientific and public opinion are veering 
towards the view that alcohol is unnecessary and ofttimes very harmful; 
therefore, it may be stated that when the opinions of various authorities 
on the subject of alcohol in the tropics have been carefully considered, the 
preponderant view, at any rate, from the scientific standpoint, seems to 
be that its use is unnecessary, and, when it is recognized that its abuse is 
injurious, the best means of avoiding harm is to abstain from it entirely. 

Among other beverages largely used in the tropics, tea is the most 
popular, but coffee, cocoa and aerated drinks are consumed largely. The 
properties of all these beverages have been amply discussed in the section 
dealing with beverages. 

EEFERENCES 

1. Gautier. Diet and Dietetics, tr. by A. J. Rice-Oxley, 2nd ed., 

Lippincott, 1906. 

2. Hutchison. Food and the Principles of Dietetics, 4th ed.. Wood, 

1917. 

3. Chittenden. Physiology of Man. 

4. Benedict, A. L. Golden Rules of Dietetics. 

5. Speck. Arch, f, exp. Pathol, u. Pharm., Bd. xv, p. 81. 

6. Voit, C. Ztschr. f. Biol., Bd. xiv, p. 57. 

7. Maurel (of Toulouse). Influence des climats et des saisons sur les 

depenses de I'organisme chez I'homme. 
Arch, de med. nav., vol. Ixxiv, p. 366 ; voL Ixxv, pp. 5, 81, 

8. De Long, George W. Voyage of the Jeannette. 



408 DIET IN HEALTH 

1). Bull. 'No. 227, Exper. Station, U. S, Dept. of Agric. 

10. . Ibid., No. 27. 

11. Davis. Foods in Health and Disease. 

12. Playfaik. Text-book of Physiology. 

13. TiBBLES, Wii-LiAM. Food in Health and Disease. 

14. Hutchison. Food and the Principles of Dietetics. 

15. Atwatee. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. No. 38. 

16. . Report of U. S. Commisisoner of Fish and Fisheries. 

17. Chittenden, R. H. Nutrition of Man. 

18. Melville, Col. Brit. Med. J., 1910, vol. ii, p. 1337. 

19. TiBBLES, William. Food in Health and Disease. 

20. Atwater and Wood. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. No. 38. 

21. Hoffman. Food of the Negro in Alabama, IT. S. Dept. of Agric. 

Bull. No. 38. 

22. Goss, Arthur. Dietary Studies in New Mexico, U. S. Dept. of 

A^ic, Bull. No. 40. 

23. Davis. Food in Health and Disease. 

24. Manson. Tropical Diseases. 

25. Woodruff, Charles. American Medicine, 1914. 

26. LuKis and Blackham. Text-book Tropical Hygiene, 2nd ed. 

27. Holy Bible. Ist Cor., 16th chap., 22nd verse. 

28. Simpson. Principles of Hygiene as Applied to Tropical and Sub- 

Tropical Countries, Wood, 1908. 

29. Manson. Sutherland's System of Diet and Dietetics. 

30. Hall, Winfield S. Med. Times, Feb., 1916. 



CHAPTEK XIII 
DIET m CRITICAL PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

Old men bear want of food bjst; then those that are adults; youths hear it 
least, most especially children, and of them the most lively are the least capable of 
enduring it. 

Diet in Childhood: Early Childhood; Diet for School Children. 

Diet during Puberty. 

Diet in Sedentary Occupations. 

Diet during Menstruation. 

Diet during Pregnancy. 

Diet during the Puerperiura. 
Diet during Lactation. 
Diet during the Menopause. 
Diet in Old Age. 

DIET IN CHILDHOOD 

In this chapter no reference will be made to the alimentation for the 
infant, as this will he fnlly discussed in subsequent chapters. We will 
begin with early childhood (from the third to the sixth year before school), 
during which time the child should have four meals each day and a nap in 
the afternoon. There should be no sudden change of diet during this 
period, but the proportions of milk should be gradually decreased and 
mushy cereals increased, and a greater proportion of breadstuffs, cookies, 
etc., should be allowed. According to the researches of Atwater, at the 
end of the second year the child weighs about one-fifth as much as the 
adult, and requires three-tenths of the standard adult ration, the relative 
excess being due to the fact that the child is growing and depositing tissues 
and fat. From the third to the fifth year the growing child requires four- 
tenths of the adult ration ; from the sixth to the ninth year one-half, and 
from the tenth to the thirteenth year six-tenths. From this age on much 
depends upon the habits and life. For instance, a girl from fourteen to 
sixteen requires seven-tenths of the adult ration, and a hoy of the same 

age requires a full adult ration. 

409 



410 



DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 



Early Childhood. — Dr. M. Allen Starr (1) has worked out the accom- 
panying table of the dietetic needs in childhood collected from the actual 
food consumption by large groups of healthy children. 

STARR'S TABLE OF DIETETIC NEEDS IN CHILDHOOD 





2-3 years 
(28 cases) 


3-6 years 
(12 cases) 


4-10 years 
(24 cases) 


Bread 


7.5 ounces 

.98 « 
4.6 
3.9 
32.6 


10.3 ounces 

1.08 " 
12,1 
13. 
48.6 


10.23 ounces 


Butter 


.99 " 


Beef 


12.46 « 


Potatoes or rice 


10.23 " 


Milk 


38.5 







Cereals, fruits and eggs should enter largely into the composition of 
the alimentation of the growing child, and there is no objection to an allow- 
ance of a minimum amount of meat. During this period of development, 
from the third to the sixth year, the child is building up tissue, muscle, 
brain, bone and gland, and must, therefore, have plenty of protein. Milk, 
eggs and cereals will furnish these in abimdance. At this time, also, the 
child is acquiring habits, and it should be impressed upon him that the 
habit of proper mastication is an important acquisition. This can only 
be attained by necessity. The mother should be instructed not to feed 
the child on a diet consisting too largely of pultaceous foodstuffs of a semi- 
liquid character, as these will be swallowed without chewing and thereby 
become a hindrance to dental development and a possible detriment to the 
development of the digestive organs. Such a diet leads, in the first place, 
to imperfect development of the muscles of mastication and the jaws, with 
the result that the post-nasal space is small and liable to be encroached 
upon by adenoids, with unfavorable effects upon growth and general nutri- 
tion, while in the second place the particles of carbohydrate food will lodge 
around the teeth and undergo acid fermentation with resulting dental 
caries. The great necessity for giving the child food that requires chew- 
ing cannot be too strongly emphasized. The healthy growing child will 
get hungry between meals, and if he is doled out soft bread with jam he is 
pretty certain first to swallow the food with inadequate chewing and, sec- 
ond, to eat more than he needs, overloading his stomach, overtaxing his 
digestive activities, and perhaps retarding his appetite for the next meal. 
This point is particularly emphasized by Watson (2), who urges that a 
child be taught early to develop the art of mastication, which favors the 
normal development of the nasal and nasopharyngeal cavities which are of 



DIET IN CHILDHOOD 411 

so much importance, for the purpose of respiration and general nutrition. 

The cereal foods are of first importance — oatmeal, hominy and samp, 
thoroughly cooked and served with butter, cream, milk or sirup. Well- 
cooked farinaceous puddings of all kinds are wholesome and readily taken 
by children. 

Of fresh vegetables the potato is the most popular, and one of which 
young children will not tire. It may be served boiled, baked or mashed 
and creamed, but never fried. Fresh cauliflower, cabbage, spinach, 
asparagus, beans and peas may be allowed, but canned vegetables should 
never be used when fresh ones can be had. 

We fully appreciate the craving of the growing child for sugar, candy 
and sweets, a demand which must be satisfied. It is far better to do this, 
however, by the use of sugar in the food than by allowing the artificially 
colored sweets of the candy manufacturer, which are often taken in ex- 
cess apart from the meal. Many fruits contain a considerable amount of 
sugar in an assimilable form, as well as certain mineral properties which 
are of inestimable value and importance in maintaining a healthy condi- 
tion of the blood. Apples, peaches, pears, plums, grapes, oranges, bananas, 
cherries, etc., are suitable wholesome fruits, and some of these, according 
to season, should form a part of the child's dietary each day. 

The first permanent molar teeth appear about the sixth year, while 
the deciduous incisors are already undergoing decay. Children at this 
stage require careful preparation of food by fine cutting, scraping, etc. 
At this time, also, the child should be initiated into the use of the tooth- 
brush, and if necessary the dentist should be consulted as to the preserva- 
tion even of the deciduous teeth by means of temporary soft fillings. I^ot 
only are these deciduous teeth more valuable for mastication than parents 
sometimes think, but with cavities they furnish a home for the colonization 
of bacteria, which hasten the early loss of the permanent teeth. 

The normal day's ration for a healthy child of four to six years, ac- 
cording to Hall, may be as follows (3), necessary variations being made 
in accordance with the season, climate, etc. : 

Breakfast — 7 a.m. 

A glass of whole milk; small portion of thoroughly cooked oatmeal with cream 
and sugar; baked apple; small piece of buttered toast. 

Lunch — 10 A.M. 

A small portion (equal to a heaping tablespoon) of parched sweet corn, or two 
graham crackers; glass of water. 

Dinner — 1 p.m. 

Cup of cambric tea (hot water and cream sweetened) ; bread and butter; creamed 
potatoes; fruit, stewed or fresh. 



412 



DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PEEIODS 



Tea — 4 p.m. 

A dry crust or a piece of cold, dry toast, or a pretzel, or two graham crackers. 
8upper — 6 p.m. 

Glass of milk; soft-boiled egg; shredded-wheat biscuit with cream; fruit (apple, 
grapes, banana or orange). 

There are several points in reference to a child's diet which should be 
sj^ecially emphasized, as pointed out by Hall. First, his food should be 
dry and hard to chew. Second, one meal each day should be rich in pro- 
teins. Third, any lunches partaken of in the midforenoon or midafter- 
noon should be small in volume and should always be dry, requiring very 
slow mastication, which will insure the ingestion of small quantities and 
rapid digestion. Furthermore, such a repast will not interfere with the 
full meal which is to follow some two hours later. A normal child of two 
years and upwards has a well-developed digestive apparatus and a keen 
appetite, and is well able to digest most foodstuffs if given in moderate 
quantities. 

Watson has compiled a very practical table of average weights and 
heights of children at different ages. The averages in these tables were 
calculated from weights and measurements taken from a large number of 
observations, and, though fairly accurate, are not necessarily true in all 
eases. The discrepancy, however, will not vary more than 15 per cent 
either way. The point of greatest importance is the proportion between 
height and weight. To be exact in recording observations in weight, the 
periodical weighing should be done under precisely corresponding condi- 
tions, the same clothes, same scales, etc. 

COMPARATIVE HEIGHTS AND WEIGHTS OF CHILDREN 





Males 




Females 


Age last 






Age last 
birthday 






birthday 












Height 


Weight 




Height 


Weight 


1 


2 ft. 5H in. 


WA lbs. 


1 


2 ft. 3H in. 


18 lbs. 


2 


2 « 8H " 


S2\i « 


2 


2 " 7 " 


251^ « 


3 


2 « 11 


34 


3 


2 « 10 


31H " 


4 


3 « 1 


37 


4 


3 " " 


36 


5 


3 " 4 


40 


5 


3 " 3 


39 


6 


3 « 7 


44H " 


6 


3 " 6 " 


41^ « 


7 


3 " 10 


49^ « 


7 


3^8 


47H " 


8 


3 " 11 


55 


8 


3 " lOH " 


52 


9 


4 « 1^4 " 


60H " 


9 


4 « O^A " 


531^ « 


10 


4 « 334 « 


67H " 


10 


4 « 3 


62 


11 


4 « 5H " 


72 


11 


4 « 5 " 


68 


12 


4 " 7 


76K " 


12 


4 « 7H " 


761^ « 


13 


4 « 9 u 


821^ « 


13 


4 « 9M " 


87 



DIET m CHILDHOOD 413 

A point, emphasized by Watson, and often overlooked at this period 
of life, is the necessity for adapting the alimentation to the diathesis of 
the child. For instance, the needs of a child of tuberculous parents, say, 
at the fifth year, are different from those of a gouty child- of the same 
age. The child of a tuberculous diathesis is usually of comparatively 
feeble development, shows little muscular activity, is slightly anemic and 
possibly under size. The principal point in arranging the diet in such 
cases is to provide the necessary increase in the amount of animal pro- 
tein, more particularly meat and raw meat juice. The great benefit de- 
rived from a properly planned alimentation in these cases is little less than 
remarkable, but to secure lasting results, the dietary must be religiously 
continued for many months, sometimes for as long as two years. The 
following diet list will be found of practical importance and suitable for 
a child of five or six years, with a tuberculous diathesis. It contains a 
more liberal supply of animal proteins in the form of milk, eggs, meat, 
and soup than an ordinary diet, including two pints of milk, and meat 
foods at least three times daily. This point should be insisted on and 
continued during the gTowing period. 

DIETARY FOR TUBERCULOUS CHILDREN 

First Breakfast — 6.30 a.m. 
Milk; biscuit and butter. 

Breakfast: 

Milk; butter; bread; egg; fish or bacon. 

Lunch: 

Cup of soup (meat stock), or egg flip. 

Dinner: 

Soup with raw meat; curds and cream; glass of milk; pounded meat and vege- 
table; stewed fruit cream; glass of milk. Fish, with sauce; potato; custard 
pudding; glass of milk. Chicken, bread sauce; vegetable; blancmange; cream; 
glass of milk. 
Tea: 

Milk; bread and butter. 

Supper: 

Good meat soup, thickened with milk; or egg; or meat pur^e; or lentil pur^e. 

The diet for a child of the gouty diathesis should be most carefully 
regulated, since it is without question that proper alimentation will do 
much to eradicate the tendency to disease. "The special features in the 
dietary treatment are (a) the necessity of bringing the child np on a 
strictly lacto-vegetarian diet, red meats of all kinds to be forbidden, or, 
at most, only allowed occasionally, and very sparingly; (h) the importance 
of a restricted allowance of sugar and of foodstuffs rich in sugar. If a 



414 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

child with a gouty tendency is dieted along these lines during the period 
of growth and development, he will be much less prone to develop gouty 
symptoms in later life." 

Diet for School Children. — Growing boys and girls during school life 
from the sixth -year until puberty require a large amount of wholesome, 
nutritious food (4). During this stage of life the rapid growth and inces- 
sant activity of the child continue, and to these is now, added the mental 
work of laying the foundation for an education. In a child that has been 
wisely brought up under normal conditions and has had a due amount of 
work, play and sleep, the appetite will be the best guide for the amount of 
food required. On the other hand, the appetite of a child who has been in- 
dulged with too many sweets and highly seasoned dishes, to the exclusion 
of the plainer, more wholesome foods, and who has been petted, pampered 
and brought up like a hothouse plant, will not be a trustworthy guide to 
the food requirements. Children with a debased appetite of this sort, 
which is, of course, due to faulty feeding at home, had better be sent to 
a boarding school at once, where the social customs will soon effect a per- 
fect, if at first a somewhat painful, cure. It is not uncommon at this age 
to have the parent tell us that "Johnny cannot take this and cannot take 
that food at home," although on physical examination no defects will be 
found. It cannot be too strongly impressed on parents that the inability 
of healthy children to take ordinary food is imaginary, brought about 
largely by previous erroneous feeding and fostered by paternal weakness, 
proof of which is furnished by the fact that when the child is placed 
among other children who are eating ordinary food this inability at once 
passes away. It must not be lost sight of, however, that we not infre- 
quently meet with a neurotic boy or girl with personal idiosyncrasies to 
certain articles of diet. Such children require special study and special 
treatment. 

The greater the amount of exercise a child takes in the open air, the 
greater will be his appetite, which will directly influence the quantity of 
food he should take. Strenuous exercise up to the moment of coming to 
meals should not be allowed, as such exercise is liable to produce exhaus- 
tion, which will affect both appetite and digestion. The normal adult likes 
to indulge in a short rest after meals, but the healthy child will be eager 
for exercise, which should not be forbidden, provided it is the nature of 
the child to be active in play and not easily tired. Still, it is well to re- 
member that a strenuous game of football immediately after dinner is 
distinctly injurious. 

In estimating the requisite caloric value of the dietary of children 



DIET m CHILDHOOD 4l5 

some formiilse will have to be followed as a guide. Children of normal 
size, development and activity Sherman thinks require the following 
calories per kilogram of body weight. 

REQUISITE CALORIES PER KILOGRAM FOR VARIOUS AGES 

From 1 to 2 years 100-90 calories per kilogram 900 to 1200 calories 

2 " 6 " 90-80 " " " 1200 " 1500 " 

6 " 9 " 80-70 " " " 1400 « 2000 " 

10 « 13 " 70-60 « " " 1800 " 2200 " 

Girls 14 « 17 " 65-45 " " " 2200 « 2600 « 

Boys 14 « 17 « 60-40 « " " 2500 « 3000 " 

In calculating a dietary for children the factors of growth and devel- 
opment must always be taken into consideration. The child needs pro- 
tein for the ordinary wear and tear and also requires an additional amount 
for the production of bone and muscle. The child has an intense metab- 
olism, more general than the adult; owing to the period of growth the 
food must supply material to be added to the body in the form of bone 
and brawn in addition to that which is oxidized for normal metabolism. 

In selecting the proper alimentation of young subjects, the most im- 
portant consideration is that of not starving the child on any one food- 
stuff (5). A requisite amount of protein, fats and carbohydrates is abso- 
lutely essential. ' To stint is very often to starve ; therefore, in arranging 
the diet, the meals should be at regular intervals, at least three good meals 
being given daily. The chief difference from the feeding in the early 
years is that a large amount of beef and mutton is now demanded. Meat 
should be given twice a day, once to provide for the wear and tear of the 
body, and once to "supply the means for growth," as Dr. Clement Dukes 
rather quaintly expresses it. It is needless to say that the freshness of the 
food is a most important consideration. Salted meats and canned meats 
are useful in supplying variety in the dietary, but if used too frequently 
they fail to supply the proper amount of nutrition and their continued use 
becomes monotonous, leading to loss of appetite. Likewise, canned 
vegetables and fruits are to be considered as inferior to fresh ones for 
regular use. The question of hours for meals is important. Breakfast 
should be punctual to allow the child time to eat a good hearty meal, to 
masticate its food properly, and to have time before starting for school to 
attend to the bowels. School children are often upset through neglect of 
this wholesome rule. 

The value of a liberal diet during school life cannot be too strongly 
emphasized. Dr. Watson (2) speaks with authority on the subject, and 



416 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

the following articles of food are selected from those given by him as 
suitable at this age: ^ 

SUITABLE DIETARY FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN 

Breakfast: 

This should be the heartiest meal of the day. Begin witii a small plate of por- 
ridge and glass of milk; follow by an egg or fish, bread and butter, or toast and 
butter, and tea or coffee, largely made with hot milk; jam or marmalade and 
oatcake. 
Lunch — 1L30 a.m. 

A dry biscuit and a drink of milk (not hot scones, buns, or pastry); a little fresh 
fruit, apple, orange, or banana. 
Dinner — in the middle of the day: 

This should coasist of soup, meat, vegetables, and pudding. The soup does not 
require to be made of rich meat stock — lentil, pea, broth, or rice soup are all 
excellent, giving a good foundation for the meat course. Roast, boiled meat, 
and stews are the best, served always with potatoes and a vegetable. I*ud- 
ding should be varied: suet pudding with fruit or jam, milk puddings, or stewed 
fruit. A glass of milk may be given with this meal, and as much bread as the 
child wishes to take. 
Tea, not later than 5.30 p.m. 

Beverage, milk or cocoa (not tea as a rule) ; as much plain bread and toast as the 
child can eat; plain cake; sometunes an egg, or fish, or potted meat, marma- 
lade, jam, or honey. 
Supper: 

A drink of milk and a biscuit is all that is necessary; a large supper is not advisable. 
It is better for all children to go to bed with the stomach comparatively empty. 

Weak tea and coffee, well diluted with milk, may be added to the 
dietaries given, but should not be taken in excess. Milk at this age will 
be made much more palatable and attractive to the palate if flavored with 
tea or coffee. The question of an allowance of alcohol for schoolboys may 
be answered by asking the question : "Is it necessary, and is it beneficial ?" 
The consensus of opinion of both physicians and dietitians has decided 
both questions in the negative. If, then, the use of alcohol by the school- 
boy has been considered unnecessary on physical grounds and not bene- 
ficial on normal grounds, one can safely assert with confidence that alcohol 
should not form a part of the youth's diet during school life. {See section 
on Alcohol, Volume I, Chapter XVI, page 568.) 

The chief meals of the day should be three in number; breakfast, din- 
ner and supper. The first two should be the substantial meals, while sup- 
per should consist of less stimulating food. Under no consideration should 
schoolboys and girls have a heavy meal of stimulating food a short time 
before retiring. Neither should they be set to the task of doing lessons in 
the morning before partaking of food, but should spend a half hour in the 
open air, after which a substantial meal should be served, with plenty of 
time for thorough mastication. The dinner hour usually follows four or 

1 For additional dietaries see Vohime III, Chapter XXVIII. 



» 



DIET IN CHILDHOOD 417 

five hours after breakfast. For some children this may prove too long an 
interval without food. If so, a piece of bread with an apple or some light 
food may be allowed in the midforenoon. The supper should be a light 
repast, as outlined above, and should be taken, some two or three hours 
before retiring. 

It will be admitted that a diet selected from the above list proves 
amply sufficient, liberal and varied. It should meet all the requirements 
of the growing body and even the special weakness of the schoolboy or 
girl in the matter of sweets. Although no mention is made of fresh fruit, 
this is to be regarded as an essential part of the daily diet, for though its 
nutritive value is not gTeat, the carbohydrate matter, which is abundant, is 
in a form which appeals to the youthful palate. The action of fresh fruit 
on the bowels and the blood renders this food material specially desirable 
and suitable for growing boys and girls. 

The medical inspection of school children has been the means of detect- 
ing and remedying many defects which hamper the child in his studies, 
and it may be safely stated that a child who cannot easily and without 
physical detriment keep up with his class is defective, due to imperfect 
vision or hearing, to sluggish respiratory changes due to adenoids, etc., 
to imperfect nutrition at home, or to some other remediable condition that 
is more likely to be detected by regular school inspection than by the ob- 
servation of ignorant and careless parents. With three good meals daily 
from the above dietary, no boy or girl should suffer from hunger or from 
failure of nutrition from lack of food. 

The superintendent of schools should see that the hygienic condition 
of the building is such as to favor the working of a pupil without undue 
fatigue, which might lessen appetite and thereby interfere with nutrition. 
Tasks should not be imposed that would be arduous for the average child 
to perform, for the most part during school hours. IvTeither should the 
discipline be such as to overtax the child or interfere with his meal hours. 
If gi'eediness in partaking of food is observed in a youth, it must be dis- 
couraged and checked, as it breeds physical ills if tolerated. However, 
one must not allow a healthy appetite to remain unsatisfied on the ground 
that moderation is a desirable virtue. Some parents and the heads of 
boarding schools consider that the minimum allowance of food compatible 
with health is all that is desirable, and in many such cases children are 
kept in a chronic state of starvation. It is true that certain children with 
strong constitutions, ruddy, rugged and robust, might stand this without 
ill health accruing, but there are instances where the future growth and 
development of a child have been permanently stunted by a scanty allow- 



418 



DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 



ance of food. If at this period of growth and development there must be 
error, let the error be on the side of allowing the maximum rather than 
the minimum amount of food. 



DIET DURING PUBERTY 

The period of pubescence begins in the girl usually about the thirteenth 
year and the boy about the fourteenth year. This period in both sexes is 
marked by great physical growth and development, and the dietary, to 
meet these new demands, should be rich in easily digested proteins. There 
is no time in man's existence when there is greater need for wholesome, 
suitable, nutritious food — ^that which will build up good rich, red blood — 
than at this period. The adolescent should have liberal allowances of 
bread, eggs, meat and foods of every kind, provided he digests them well, 
but highly spiced dishes and wine should be tabooed. 

The paucity of reliable statistics on the normal consumption of food 
in adolescence is a serious drawback to the dietary guidance in the feeding 
of young boys and girls. It is difficult and unusual to collect the basic 
facts regarding the functional needs and performances in this period of 
youth. A recent investigation by Gephart(5) gives an idea of the actual 
amounts of nourishment ingested by more than 300 boys in one of the 
largest private boarding schools in the L^nited States. 

The total animal supply for such an institution containing 355 boys 
was computed as follows, in metric tons : 





Protein 


Fats 


Carbohydrates 


Food supply. 


20.5 
3.8 


25.6 
5.4 


60.5 


Waste 


4.2 






Food fuel 


16.7 


20.2 


56.3 







The quantity of food computed on the basis of the individual meal 
served, appears as follows: 





Pounds 


Grams 


Calories 


Calories 
(Per cent) 


Protein 


0.1107 
0.1332 
0.3717 


50.2 

60.4 

168.8 


206 
562 
692 


14' 


Fat 


39 


Carbohydrates 


47 












1,460 





I Seventy per cent of this was in cininial protein. 



DIET DURING PUBERTY 419 

The food was of the best quality, and included 193 separate varieties. 
The cost per meal was 20 cents, or 13.8 cents per thousand calories. This 
is twice what the poor man in New York City pays for his food. But 
these growing athletic boys were not satisfied with the conventional 3,000 
calories per day. The investigator of their dietary ascertained that beside 
the 4,350 calories which they consumed daily at the table, they bought 650 
additional calories in food at a neighboring store, the principal item being 
chocolate. 

Graham Lusk(6) has pointed out the fact that the 5,000 calories con- 
tained in the daily alimentation of active American boys of school age 
are half again as much as a farmer at strenuous work is thought to require. 
The total fuel intake of the boarding school just mentioned was three 
times that necessary for the heat production of boys from 13 to 16 years 
of age when asleep and resting. As previously emphasized, these findings 
serve in a way to explain the ravenous appetite of growing boys and girls. 
Lack of appreciation of this factor and lack of provision for it are a fre- 
quent cause of much under-nutrition in children. 

The adolescent girl in particular needs good wholesome rich foods, 
more especially those containing iron. We have already called attention 
to the iron content of many foods. Lean meat, eggs, and the dark green 
leaves of vegetables, as spinach, are all rich in iron. A well-balanced 
rational menu for a fourteen-year-old girl or her sixteen-year-old brother 
would be somewhat like the following(Y) : 

SUITABLE MENU FOR A EOURTEEN-YEAR-OLD GIRL OR HER 
SIXTEEN-YEAR-OLD BROTHER 
Breakfast: 

Oatmeal with cream and sugar; buttered toast; one or two boiled eggs; fruit 
(grapes, apples, bananas, oranges or berries) ; coffee, with cream and sugar. 

Lunch: 

A pur^e of cream soup with crackers or croutons; bread and butter; fruit; rice 
pudding or custard. 

Dinner: 

An ample portion of meat; potatoes (baked or boiled); side dish of vegetables; 
fruit, stewed or canned, with graham wafers; bread and butter. 

This dietary is rich in protein, sufficient to nourish an adult at mod- 
erate work. But we must remember that the adolescent has need for a 
great excess of meat, and, as a matter of fact, the pubescent boy or girl, 
in school, office or factory, will eat quite as much and often even more 
than an adult, and will be far more seriously injured if he does not get 
the requisite alimentation. If a boy or girl craves a light lunch in the mid- 
afternoon, it should be allowed. A young girl, especially, if she begins to 



420 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

show signs of pallor, as is f requeutlj noticed in high school girls, may be 
directed to prepare for herself an egg lemonade, using two yolks instead 
of the yolk and white of one egg. Such a lunch will not interfere with 
the dinner later on. The best stimulants of the appetite at this age are 
fatigue for the boy, from swimming, walking in the open air, and moderate 
exercise for the girl, tennis and golf, which ought to hasten the return of 
color to her cheeks. 

The craving for sweets by the adolescent boy or girl is a natural one, 
and should be satisfied. Fudge and other sweets should be allowed, but 
as a rule it is preferable for these to be eaten iumaediately following meal 
time. When partaken of in this manner they serve an important purpose 
in the alimentation and seldom give rise to any disturbance of digestion. 
As sweets are the most condensed sources of carbohydrates and per volume 
are great sources of energy, the insatiable desire for them seems to be 
more or less instinctive. A few generations back, it was thought and 
taught that the consumption of sweets had a tendency to produce decay of 
the teeth, but at the present time the toothbrush brigade has robbed them 
of any bad reputation which they have possessed in this connection. 

The present curriculum in most high schools and girls' colleges is 
faulty and could be greatly improved upon. Long sessions impose too 
long and severe a strain on the boy or girl, more particularly if they 
happen to be puny and with little or no desire for breakfast. A more 
sensible plan would be to arrange the courses of instruction so that no 
piipil would be required to attend more than four consecutive periods 
without a recess. An insufficient breakfast, hastily ingested, due to late 
rising or to late hours the evening before, either on the part of the pupil 
or family, so that breakfast is not served in due time, is frequently a cause 
for digestive disturbances on the part of the pnpil, besides furnishing in- 
sufficient: nutrition. The adolescent attending high school should have a 
well-balanced midday meal, consisting of good wholesome food. Such an 
arrangement need not in any way interfere with the full evening dinner 
with the family. Pupils of this age should be restrained from social dissi- 
pation during school sessions except on Friday and Saturday evening. 

About this time of life the question of the proper allowance of alcohol, 
tea, coffee or tobacco, etc., is one that will have to be met and answered. 
Abstinence from alcoholic liquors is desirable even for the adult, and 
almost imperative for the adolescent if health is to be maintained. Strong 
coffee and tea likewise should be shunned. Weak cocoa will afford an 
excellent substitute for both. 

According to Benedict (8), "It should be impressed on the boy or girl 



DIET IN SEDENTARY OCCUPATIONS 421 

that there are purely physical conditious during the period of growth, as 
well as ditterences in the business and social demands upon the adoles- 
cent and the adult, which render abstinence necessary in the former, and 
indulgence comparatively harmless in the latter. If the appeal to judg- 
ment based on these grounds is not sufficient, parental discipline may be 
necessary, and it is even worth considering whether the health of the 
youth is not worth the argument of example as well as precept. The 
prejudice against cigarettes, as compared with stronger forms of tobacco, 
is due almost entirely to their premature use by boys too young to tolerate 
tobacco in other forms." 

DIET IN SEDENTARY OCCUPATIONS 

Persons engaged in sedentary occupations which confine them indoors, 
and whose work is largely mental rather than muscular, require a diet 
suitable to their needs rather than one adapted to the requirements of a 
laborer or "lumber jack." Sedentary workers sooner or later realize from 
experience that they must give attention to their diet if they would remain 
in good health. If a man whose vocation does not permit of any physical 
exercise indulges in a heavy diet in which meat is ingested two or three 
times a day, he is almost certain, sooner or later, to suffer from serious 
nutritional disturbances. First, he is apt to put on an excess of flesh; 
second, his excretory organs, more especially the kidneys, will suffer from 
the extra strain in eliminating waste products of protein metabolism, 
with the result that at first he will be annoyed with occasional and later 
almost continuous disabilities of a rheumatic or a lithemic character; 
third, his digestive organs will sooner or later fag under the burden of 
overeating, especially of foods from the animal kingdom. As a result he 
will suffer from constipation, which, if prolonged, will lead to an altered 
bacterial activity resulting in auto-intestinal intoxication with accompany- 
ing stasis and putrefaction. The injurious effects of over-indulgence at 
the table by the sedentary, are of far-reaching importance, and are claimed 
to be the chief factor in the development of many serious diseases. There 
can be no question that the excessive ingestion of protein food induces a 
temporary albuminuria, similarly glycosuria, pentosuria, etc. The great- 
est danger from the excessive ingestion of proteins, and more especially 
animal protein, is due to the fact, as previously pointed out, that they are 
incompletely oxidized, which tends to the accumulation of waste products 
in the- blood — protein poisons acting injuriously in different directions 
already mentioned ; all of which may easily be avoided by proper alimen- 
tation. 

127 



422 DIET m PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

Energy diverted for mental work is apt to be at the expense of the 
digestive process; consequently, it is highly important that the alimenta- 
tion should be closely studied, so as to exactly meet the requirements of 
the case, and not unduly tax the organs of digestion nor overvvoric the 
organs of excretion. As a rule, meat should bo indulged in but once a 
day, and then only in moderation, while individuals of slender physique 
and frail constitution will do well occasionally to replace meat by other 
animal foods, as ^gs and fish. Persons engaged in literary pursuits, 
writers and brain workers, often suffer from lithemia, which in many cases 
is unquestionably due to other causes tlum errors in diet — such as anxiety, 
worry or overwork, "burning the candle at both ends." This class of 
patients do better on a full diet of good, wholesome, well-cooked food, 
which is nourishing, light and digestible. They should be instructed to 
avoid fatty and purely starchy dishes, but they need meat, and it may be 
allowed in moderate amoimt. Variety in fruits and fresh green vegetables 
is also desirable. The following aliments should be rigidly restricted: 
rich gravies, sauces, custards, patties, lean meat in made dishes, pastry, 
highly seasoned or fried entrees. The menu for the sedentary, whether 
professional, literary or business man, should be somewhat as follows 
(Hall) : 

SUITABLE DIETARY FOR THE SEDENTARY 
Breakfast: 

Fruits, preferably a baked apple; breakfast bacon; buttered toast; muffins or 
gems; coffee with cream and sugar. 

Lunch: 

A cream soup or pur6e with crackers, or sandwich and fruit, with a cup custard. 
Dinner: 

Meat, white bread, potatoes; vegetables; salad; fruit; a light, easily digestible 
pudding, such as rice, chocolate, or bread pudding with fruit sauce; gelatin or 
tapioca with fruit; coffee or tea with cream and sugar. 

By some this dinner may be thought to be rather heavy, but we will 
assume that the sedentary gentleman will partake of the different courses 
rather sparingly ; that he will linger long at the table in a social hour with 
the family in regular deipnosophistic fashion, with quip and repartee, 
keeping the whole dinner circle in good spirits, which will give him suf- 
ficient time to thoroughly masticate his food. 

The brain tissue is composed very largely of fat — three times as much 
as in muscular tissue, while the nerves contain an even greater percentage. 
Non-lithemic brain workers may advantageously partake of fats and car- 
bohydrates — foods which may be supplied in the form of cream, butter 



DIET IN SEDENTARY OCCUPATIONS 



423 



and well-cooked bacon, bread, potatoes and vegetables. The reason that 
some writers land fat as a food for brain workers is the ease with which 
it is metabolized into energy. The popnlar idea that fish, owing to the 
large percentage of phosphorns contained in it, possesses some specific 
action as a brain food is now an exploded theory. Fresh fish is, however, 
very wholesome, and by replacing meat in the menu is more easily metab- 
olized by the digestive organs. The sedentary brain worker who desires 
to keep in a fit condition should have a light lunch and dine late in the 
day. It is desirable during the active hours of close mental application 
to supply only the food actually necessary for the prompt production of 
the requisite energy without borrowing, so to speak, or drawing upon the 
digestive organs for the expenditure of energy in elaborating food which is 
only needed for storage. 

A tour of inspection of the downtown metropolitan district of any 
large city at the noon lunch hour reveals two sharply-defined classes of 
patrons: (a) Those who believe in steaks and chops as the best brain and 
nerve food, and with whom economy is of no moment, and who spend a 
dollar or a dollar and a half for luncheon; (&) those who believe in stay- 
ing the pangs of hunger for the least money. Members of this class spend 
ten cents for a piece of pie and some cheese and five cents more for a cup 
of coffee or a glass of milk, and get just as much fuel value or force and 
energy as the former — provided, of course, the ingested food is assimi- 
lated. 

COMPARATIVE LUNCHES 





Proteins 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Calories 


(a) Chops 


15 grams 
2.1 
.5 " 


20 grams 

.1 « 

1.6 « 


17.7 grams 

1.4 
12 


247.5 


Potatoes 


82 


Salad 

Orange ice 


23 

49 








17.6 grams 


21.7 grams 


31.1 grams 


401.5 


(6) Mince pie (slice) 

3^ oz. cheese 


6 grams 
3.5 « 
8.3 " 


15 grams 
4.1 
10 


66 gramis 
0.3 " 
12.5 " 


436 
53.7 


3^ pt. milk 


178 








17.8 grams 


29.1 grams 


78.8 grams 


668.7 



Mrs. E. H. Richards (9) has worked out a daily ration for the seden- 
tary business man, professional man or literary worker, but in our 
opinion, the protein allowance is entirely too liberal. We give the table 
below : 



424 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

RICHARDS' RATION FOR SEDENTARY OCCUPATIONS 



Food 



Amount 



Proteins 



Fats 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Calories 



Bread 

Meat 

Butter 

Sugar 

Milk 

Oysters 

Soup 

Potatoes 

Eggs 

Oatmeal 

Cream 

Fruit 

Additional liquid — tea, 
coffee or water 

Total 



16 oz. 

16 « 

1 « 
4 « 
8 « 
4 " 
4 " 
6 " 
3 " 

2 " 
1 " 



30 « 



32.0 grams 
50.0 " 



18.0 grams 

7.0 « 

4.0 « 

3.0 « 

10.0 " 

1.0 « 

1.5 " 

0.5 " 



3.0 grams 
30.0 "« 
25.0 " 

18.0 grams 
1.0 " 
3.0 " 

9.0 grams 
0.5 " 
6.5 " 



258.0 grams 



110.0 grams 
22.0 « 



38.0 grams 

4.0 grams 
1.0 « 
50.0 " 



1,216.6 

481.0 

230.0 

451.0 

329.6 

37.8 

44.0 

168.1 

123.8 

25.1 

70.1 

207.1 



77 oz. 



127.0 grams 



96.0 grams 



483.0 grams 



3,384.2 



Contented should be the man whose digestive organs are functionating 
normally, who is so well balanced that he takes his breakfast, as his news- 
paper, as a matter of course, and who is no more perturbed by the fraction 
of variation in the stiffness -of his boiled egg than by the rumor of an out- 
burst of Mt. Vesuvius. Happy is he who sits down to the dinner provided 
for him without thought of what he must partake of and what he must 
not, with a mind free for social pleasure, secure in the skill and exercise 
in the culinary department of his household. Who would not strive to 
have this feeling of self-assurance? And yet how few are willing to pay 
the price ! A little thought, a little self-control, and then forget that there 
is such a thing as digestion. Blessed be the man whose organs — and espe- 
cially the organs of digestion — are functionating normally and properly 
without his being conscious of it. Only in such cases is he a whole man. 

Overeating should be religiously avoided by the sedentary individual. 
We have already emphasized this point (Volume II, Chapter VI), but 
again we caution against overloading the system with incompletely as- 
similated foods which obtund intellectual activity and lead to exhaustion 
of the nervous system. If some arduous task requiring long hours and 
absorbing concentration and painstaking care is imposed, it will be better 
to take two light lunches during the day. If the task proves fatiguing, a 
little Burgundy or white wine may be taken with the lunch. It may, 
according to Chambers, "stay the weariness of the system and allow the 
nerve force to be diverted to the digestion of the meal, but to labor on and 



DIET DURING MENSTRUATION 425 

%. 

continue to take this anesthetic between meals is inconsistent," and "when 
extraordinary mental toil is temporarily imposed, extreme temperance or 
even total abstinence should be the rule, for mental activity makes the 
brain bear less alcohol than rest and relaxation." 

The sedentary person who remains muqh indoors should have frequent 
week-end outings of two or three days when all the cobwebs may be blown 
away and all his arterioles flushed out with ozone from the ocean breezes 
or mountain blasts. The stimulus of change, even if the food is only mod- 
erately good, is invaluable. 

DIET DURING MENSTRUATION 

A perfectly well woman whose menstrual periods recur with clock- 
like precision need not be treated as an invalid during menstruation, and 
her alimentation need not be other than usual. Of course it is understood 
that during the catamenial period she should avoid very cold or very hot 
baths, and should also shun excessive physical exertion or severe mental 
strain. 

Absence of the menstrual function is a frequent accompaniment of 
mental disturbance due to great grief, fright or anxiety, while an exces- 
sive development of fat may prevent the flow appearing even in persons 
whose general health appears to be excellent. Here proper dieting will 
be beneficial. Menstruation may be absent without causing the slightest 
inconvenience or perturbation ; on the other hand, there may be present, 
coincident with the menstrual period, a feeling of general disturbance 
accompanied by headache, flashes of heat, nervousness, nausea and 
vomiting, due largely, if not altogether, to a run-down condition of health, 
both mental and physical, which appropriate, wholesome, nutritious, 
nitrogenous diet will greatly benefit. 

Various menstrual disturbances may be expected in a certain percent- 
age of young girls, especially during the first year or two following the 
appearance of the catamenia, which indicate rest, confinement to the room 
or to bed, and a dietary corresponding to the physical condition of the 
patient, and to her relative quiescence and environment. Anemia, 
chlorosis and thyroid disturbances depending on menstruation will receive 
attention elsewhere. 

DIET DURING PREGNANCY 

A good, simple, well-balanced dietary is best adapted for the normal 
pregnant woman, and unless complications arise it is not customary to 
direct any definite system of alimentation. 



426 DIET m PHYSIOLOGICAL PEEIODS 

As soon as pregnancy is positively determined, tlie hygienic and 
dietetic care of the woman should be outlined. First, she should take daily 
the requisite amount of exercise in the open air; second, too much im- 
portance cannot be laid upon the necessity of preventing constipation; 
third, her alimentation should be regulated to fit her requirements and 
environment; fourth, gastric disturbances, usually termed "morning sick- 
ness," which may or may not be a harassing symptom, must receive atten- 
tion. If serious vomiting occurs in the early months, the most careful and 
painstaking attention should be given the dietary. The first principle in 
the dietetic treatment of vomiting, according to Watson, is to give the 
stomach a rest. Then the dietetic substances usually prescribed for the 
relief of nausea and vomiting and for nourishment are indicated, among 
which may be suggested cracked ice ; pancreatized milk, milk with sodium 
bicarbonate (ten grains) ; milk and lime water, milk and vichy, soda, 
seltzer, or carbonic acid water ; wliey and kumiss ; beef extracts and pepto 
noids; raw meat juice; raw meat pulp; scraped meat; clam broth; dry 
toast, etc. 

The "longings" of pregnant women for various indigestible articles, 
such as dill pickles, etc., so far as they are kept within reasonable bounds, 
may be gratified, but there seems to be no reasonable evidence that the 
refusal to satisfy such caprices has any effect upon the physical or mental 
development of the child. These "longings" are largely mythical and 
occur, if at all, only as an accompaniment of a general hysterical condition, 
and not as a peculiarity of the period of pregnancy. 

Albuminuria and dropsy are serious symptoms complicating pregnancy, 
and their presence demands the most careful attention to the dietary. 
In these complications the lightest possible diet should bo outlined, throw- 
ing the least strain upon the kidneys and other glandular organs. In very 
severe cases it may be necessary to prescribe an exclusive milk diet ; in less 
severe cases a diet of milk, bread, farinaceous foods, and simple fruits 
may suffice; while in the milder forms of derangement all that is necessary 
will be to avoid red meats and richer dishes of all kinds and subsist on the 
lacto-vegetarian diet described in Volume II, Chapter XV. 

The quantity of food during pregnancy should not exceed what is 
usually required by a healthy woman, the meals should be taken at regular 
intervals, and those articles of food known to disagree should be avoided. 
The diet throughout the period of gestation should be simple and whole- 
some but varied. Tea, coffee and alcoholic beverages should be allowed 
with caution. The vulnerability of the liver raises the question of doubt 
as to whether ale, beer or stout should be permitted. Large amounts of 



DIET DURING PREGNANCY 427 

meat — more particularly canned meat, canned vegetables, sea food at a dis- 
tance from the ocean, undrawn ponltry and stale eggs, in which decompo- 
sition may have already begun, should be avoided also, as should liver, 
thymus and kidney on account of extractive waste and excessive amounts 
of pnrins. Animal foods, even when sparingly taken, force the already 
congested liver to supplementary work in eliminating toxins arising from 
muscular tissue, and should be entirely stopped if even traces of albumin 
appear in the urine. Milk should be discontinued altogether if there are 
any symptoms of eclampsia. In general, however, cereals, milk, cream 
and butter, fresh eggs, small amounts of fresh meat — especially poultry 
and fresh fish, fresh (pod) vegetables, sweet and white potatoes and other 
vegetables rich in nutriment and with only a small percentage of indiges- 
tible residue, and fresh fruits, omitting strawberries, blackberries, blue- 
berries, etc., should be the mainstays of the pregnant woman's dietary. 

The idea, formerly prevalent among the laity and to some extent among 
medical men, that pregnant women should partake largely of foods con- 
taining abundant phosphates and lime salts to furnish the embryo with 
material for the production of bone, is now an exploded theory, since the 
organic salts in question are plentifully "supplied in an ordinary mixed 
diet. 

Another fallacious theory, equally as ingenious, though directly op- 
posed to the foregoing, is interesting only historically. It was once claimed 
that the agonies of labor would be less severe if the pregnant woman lived 
upon a diet composed largely of fruits and meat, avoiding fresh vegetables, 
on the assumption that the lime salts contained in them would favor early 
ossification of the infant's skeleton and thus add to the difficulties of par- 
turition. It is so well known that Nature is abundantly competent to 
regulate this process unaided that this theory, like the first, is no longer 
accepted. However, the size of the child can be, to some extent, regulated 
by diet. The trend of modern thought, experience, and to a certain extent, 
scientific research, according to Watson (2), tend to show that scientific 
alimentation can influence material and fetal tissues in such a way as to 
make labor more easy and to increase the chances for a viable child being 
born. This is of special moment to the physician who has under his care 
a woman with a small or contracted pelvis who has, in consequence of the 
dangers associated with labor under these anatomic conditions, given birth 
to one or more still-born children. 

Watson records the claims of Prochownick(lO) and other investigators 
who prescribe a diet deficient in carbohydrates and fluids that result in a 
sm.all child which, in every other particular, is well developed. The 



428 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

claims of Prochownick are that with a conjugate diameter of 8 cm. a diffi- 
cult labor can be obviated and the induction of premature labor rendered 
unnecessary. He suggests that the following dietary should be prescribed, 
beginning from ten to twelve weeks before labor is expected, and rigidly 
adhered to, more particularly during the last two months of parturition : 

PROCHOWNICK'S ORIGINAL DIET 

Breakfast: 

Small cup of coffee, 3 ounces; breadstuff, 1 ounce, with a little butter. 
Dinner: 

Meat, eggs, or fish, with a little sauce; green vegetables, prepared with cream; 
salad; cheese. 
Supper: 

Much as dinner — 1 to 1^^ ounces of bread with butter (water, soups, potatoes, 
sugar, and beer are strictly withheld). 
This average diet consists of: 

Protein 140 to 160 grams 

Fat 80 to 130 " 

Carbohydrates 100 to 110 « 

Fluids, about 500 c.c. daily 

Altogether a fuel value of 1800 to 2000 calories 

According to Watson, polydipsia is complained of during the first few 
days of this dietetic regimen, but it soon passes off. He also records that 
some patients complain of the large amount of animal food. 

"All the confinements reported were much easier than on former occa- 
sions, even when the child was large and fat. All the children were born 
alive. The children were usually lean at birth, with the bones of the head 
unusually mobile. They were apparently mature in every way, and in the 
majority of cases the child gained normally after birth, and the diet had 
apparently exercised no injurious effect whatever on the child, or on the 
mother during pregnancy or the period of lactation. On such a diet, it is 
essential that the condition of the urine should be carefully observed, the 
amount of urea and the presence or absence of albumin in the urine being 
specially noted. Unlike what might have been expected, it was found 
that this diet did not apparently favor the onset of eclampsia." In the 
majority of instances it has been observed that the child thrived normally 
after birth, and the diet had no bad effects on lactation. 

DIET DURING THE PUERPERIUM 

The dietary of the puerperal woman has undergone a revolution dur- 
ing the past few decades. She is no longer kept for ten days upon a diet 
of toast, weak teas and other "slops," with the idea that semistarvation 
would lessen the chances of puerperal fever and "milk fever." These 
changes are largely due to modern obstetric teaching, and to the applica- 



DIET DURING LACTATION 429 

tion of antiseptic and aseptic precautions during labor. Immediately after 
delivery, a woman may be allowed a cup of warm tea or warm milk. 
Later she may be fed milk, soft-boiled eggs and dry buttered toast; the 
next few days bread, milk, soup, chops or steaks in limited quantities. 
She can then gradually return to the diet which she naturally prefers, 
avoiding, of course, indigestible dishes, as cabbage, fried foods, seed 
vegetables and, above all, dried beans and other legumes. 

Immediately after a prolonged labor the woman is left so exhausted 
by excessive muscular effort and agonizing pain that she is too tired to 
eat, and is more thirsty than hungry, so she may have a glass of milk and 
vichy at this time. As many of the complications of labor, as mania, are 
favored by exhaustion and inanition, a sustaining and stimulating diet is 
of the greatest importance. The nursing woman, moreover, requires 
a more liberal diet than other patients, as her mammary excretion, to 
furnish the requisite food for the child, must contain a large percentage of 
protein and fat, and, since she is constantly losing a protein substance in 
the lochia, she must be full fed or her milk will be poor and insufficient. 
It is a bad practice to allow a healthy lying-in woman to fast too long. 
She needs to be well and full fed and will sleep better and feel better 
than if she receives too little food. While the patient's own appetite is a 
better guide for feeding than any hard and fast rule that may be formu- 
lated, she should be urged to take food unless greatly exhausted, but care 
must be exercised not to overload the stomach. After the milk secretion 
has been established and the bowels regulated, she may be allowed a rea- 
sonable quantity and variety of food, though while in bed she requires 
less than later when up and about. Any complication with a rise in tem- 
perature is a contra-indication for allowing much animal food, except 
milk, but extreme exhaustion without febrile action demands it. 



DIET DURING LACTATION 

The period of lactation usually lasts for about one year, though towards 
the end of the seventh' or eighth month the quality and quantity of the 
milk secreted begin to fall off. Some mothers nurse their children far into 
the second year, but the nutritive properties of the milk are, of necessity, 
very poor. 

The diet of the nursing mother must be regulated to prevent noxious 
substances from passing into the breaSt milk and to keep her in the best 
possible condition of health, so that she does not suffer from digestive 
disturbances. Edgar says (11) : "If milk is readily assimilated and does 



430 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

not tend to constipation, she may drink it abundantly. She may also be 
allowed gruels, meat broths, meat, eggs, vegetables, and other simple nour- 
ishing food. Fruits, even if acrid, are not objectionable if they do not 
react unfavorably through the breast milk upon the child, and if the 
mother's digestion is good they serve to keep the child's bowels active. A 
nursing woman should be given meat as lamb chops, beef and bacon — 
fish, beans, etc. A reasonable amount of fatty foods in all forms if they 
are well digested, and cheese, potatoes, bread, rice, green and dry peas and 
lentils, which excite mammary secretion (but not dry haricot beans). 
Green vegetables are also allowable, with the exception of cabbage, cress, 
garlic, leaks, onions, mushrooms, salads and sorrel, which permit noxious 
substances to pass into the mammary secretion. Rich and indigestible 
foods and alcoholic drinks, beyond a glass of white wine and a pint of beer 
or cider, should be avoided." While malt liquors sometimes cause an in- 
creased secretion of milk, this is because more fluid is drunk and is not 
due to any specific action of the drink, and the breast milk is not improved. 
A reasonable quantity of fluids is beneficial and is necessary to maintain 
the mammary secretion, but milk broths, soups and plain vichy water are 
far preferable to beer, ale or porter. Weak tea and coffee in small quan- 
tities are not objectionable if the mother craves them. As already stated, 
a nursing woman should be full fed, but not "stall fed," that is, to excess. 
Her daily alimentation should furnish her with : 

Protein 150 grams 600 calories 

Fat 100 « 900 

Carbohydrates 500 « 2000 " 

Total 3500 « 

Below is given an allowance for one day's ration as calculated by 
Gautier (12). The weight of the constituent alimentary principles of the 
allowance is as follows: 

A DAY'S RATION FOR A NURSING WOMAN 



Kinds of Food 


Weight 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Bread.*. 


600 grams 
400 « 
100 « 
150 " 
65 « 


50 grams 

80 

23 « 

2.4 « 



7 


5.1 grams 
28 

2 

0.5 « 
60 




300 grams 
2 " 


Meat 


Beans, peas, lentils 


59 " 


Potatoes 


30 " 


Butter 


" 


Beer. 1 Vo nt 


20 " 








1,315 grams 


162.4 grams 


95.6 grams 


411 grams 



DIET DUEING LACTATION 431 

This ration will furnish fuel energy to the extent of 3,150 calories. 
The beer may be replaced with a pint of milk, and the meat may be 
reduced and eggs and fresh vegetables substituted. After all has been said, 
the best galactagogue is good, nourishing, wholesome, simple food, espe- 
cially rich cow's milk, not so much because it is milk, but because, on the 
whole, it is easily digested and readily assimilated and furnishes approxi- 
mately the right proportion of solids and water needed in the secretion, 
of the mother's milk. Benedict advises withholding all drugs during 
lactation, more especially laxatives, iodids, mercury, etc., unless there is 
special indication to medicate the child. In cases where opium, alkaloids, 
atropin, bromids or any "strong" medicines which act directly upon the 
nervous system, must be given, nursing should be suspended, and the child 
fed artificially for the time. The breasts, in the interval, should be evacu- 
ated by means of the breast pump, and a twenty-fo.ur or forty-eight hour 
interval should elapse after medication is suspended. Foods which con- 
tain volatile substances, onions, garlic, or hypnotic substances, such as let- 
tuce, hops or beer, or meats or fowl that is "high," should not be per- 
mitted. 

To a limited extent the quantity of the mammary secretion can be 
increased by the allowance of liquid foods and more water than is habitu- 
ally taken. On the other hand, it can be reduced by withholding water, 
or by withdrawing serum from the blood, as, for instance, by purgation. 
The ingestion of more carbohydrates and hydrocarbons does not modify 
the milk, but an abundant consumption of proteins increases the percentage 
of fat, which is the only ingredient of milk that can be influenced by diet. 
The protein content can be lessened to some extent if the mother is en- 
gaged in any occupation which calls for strenuous daily exercise to the 
point of moderate weariness. 

The influence of diet and exercise upon the secretion of the mammary 
glands has led Rotch(13) to formulate the following rules : 

To increase the total quantity of milk: (a) Increase proportionately 
the amount of liquids in the mother's diet; and (h) encourage her to be- 
lieve that she can nurse her infant. 

To decrease the total quantity: Decrease proportionately the amount 
of liquids in the mother's diet. 

To increase the total solids: (a) Shorten the nursing intervals; (&) 
decrease the mother's exercise; (c) decrease the proportion of liquids in 
her diet. 

To decrease the total solids : (a) Prolong the nursing intervals ; (h) 



432 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

increase the mother's exercise ; (c) increase the proportion of liquids in her 
diet. 

To increase the fat : Increase the proportion of meat in her diet. 

To decrease the fat : Decrease the proportion of meat. 

To decrease the proteins : Increase exercise up to the limit of fatigue. 

A nursing mother should cancel social obligations so as not to interfere 
with the nutrition of her child, and all excessive physical strain and ex- 
citement are to be avoided. No engagements which conflict with the regu- 
lar times of nursing should be made, and only the most pressing demands 
for recreation or important business transactions should excuse the nursing 
of an infant in public places. 

DIET DURING THE MENOPAUSE 

The menopause climacteric, or ''change of life," in females is attended 
by marked disturbances of the nervous system, the precise nature of which 
is not thoroughly understood, but which are beyond doubt influenced by 
the functions of the ovaries. The reproductive organs are undergoing a 
complete change. The caliber of the vessels is shrinking, the blood supply 
is lessened, and atrophy of the ovaries, tubes and uterus is slowly taking 
place ; even the breasts become flat and shriveled, and other parts lose the 
form and appearance characteristic of the reproductive period (14). 

The menopause(15) occupies about five years — two or three from the 
commencement of irregularity to the cessation of the menstrual function, 
and a similar period during which time involution becomes complete and 
the normal activity of the body is established. 

An important point in the management of women at this period of 
their lives is to forcibly impress upon them the fact that they have no 
definite disorder, but are merely undergoing a perfectly normal physio- 
logical cessation of a function(8), and that, while they are likely to be 
annoyed with various manifestations of physical and psychic disturbances, 
they will in all probability pass through the "change" without serious 
consequences. Even in a normal menopause a multitude of symptoms may 
be present, such as headache, trembling, flashes of heat, palpitation and 
shortness of breath, insomnia, nervoiisness, irritability, nervous depression 
and "nagging." During its course all physiological functions are weak- 
ened, and all pathological conditions aggravated (16). If, however, a 
woman presents a train of svmptoms indicating distinct pathological 
changes, she should be examined and treated appropriately. 

There is usually a marked derangement of the nervous system at this 



DIET IN OLD AGE 433 

period, in some instances even affecting the mentality of the patient. The 
patient may present slight vagaries, a loss of interest in the affairs of life, 
and in extreme cases melancholia or other forms of a loss of mental bal- 
ance may be observed. During the "change" the excretions and secretions 
should be watched; the nutrition should be carefully looked after; waste 
and repair should balance; dietetic excesses and irregularities should be 
avoided, and care should be exercised in the preparation and serving of 
meals so as to appeal to the ffve senses. The diet should be simple, un- 
irritating and easily digested and assimilated. Meats should be restricted 
and fresh vegetables liberally consumed. As sugar is apt to set up fermen- 
tation in the stomach, candies, preserves, jellies and sweet puddings are to 
be taken in moderation. Pastry, hot breads, fried foods and rich dishes 
must be interdicted. The patient should imbibe freely of good spring 
water, drinking three or four pints daily. Stimulants are to be taken very 
sparingly and alcohol in any form is prohibited. The patient should lead 
a regular and careful life, taking gentle exercise in the open air. She 
should be kept as free from worry, anxiety and mental strain as possible, 
should be instructed to rest in bed during the menstrual period, and to 
observe early hours, bathe regularly and keep the skin and bowels active. 
It must not be overlooked that certain diseases have a predilection for 
development at the menopause, such as thyroid disturbances, diabetes, 
hepatic and renal degenerations. The use of ovarian extracts, after or 
(during the climacteric, is now thought to be of doubtful propriety, yet 
^ome clinicians claim good results from the administration of corpus 
luteum products. If the health is carefully looked after during this period, 
the pathological conditions will subside, but, according to Tibbies (15), 
"Negligence and disregard of the physician's advice may result in a serious 
breakdown from nervous or other causes, and may lead to permanent im- 
pairment of the health. Due care as to the alimentation, proper attention 
to the functions of the skin, kidneys and bowels, a careful mode of life, 
proper rest and freedom from worry and excitement, will lead to the re- 
establishment of health and formation of mens sana in corpore sano." 

DIET IN OLD AGE 

Before discussing the question of diet in old age, it may be well to 
attempt a definition of old age. By no means can this be reckoned by the 
number of years a man or woman has attained. There are old young men 
and young old men. Premature senility overtakes some individuals, gen- 
erally of the male sex, at middle age or even before, while, on the other 



434 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

hand, there are men old in years who retain the physical and mental char- 
acteristics of healthy middle age. What then constitutes old age ? What 
are the physical and physiological criteria that go to mark the failing of 
the bodily powers ? For in the case of premature senility it is the bodily 
powers that have lapsed or are lapsing and not, as a rule, the mental fac- 
ulties. A philosopher once said that a woman was as old as she looked 
and a man as old as he felt. While this aphorism is true, old age is per- 
haps most aptly defined by the statement that "a person is as old as his 
arteries." This would seem to be a correct explanation of the term old 
age, for when the arteries have hardened, or are becoming hardened, the 
"decensus Averni" has commenced. As Allbutt states in his work on 
arteriosclerosis, we recognize now, all of us, that in the lapse of man's 
years, one long reckoning of his mortality is, and from all known ages 
has been, written on the walls of his vessels. We may assume that in 
primitive man, by external conditions, if not by innate capacity, life was 
of comparatively brief duration. Domestic animals seem, as a rule, not 
to live long enough to use up their arteries — or not to live long enough to 
abuse them — and among tlieae creatures atheroma, although not unknown, 
has not been commonly observed. 

Arteriosclerosis, then, may be taken as the sign manual of decaying 
physical powers(17), that is, of old age, and the person who has hardened 
arteries may be termed old. Premature senility is far more frequent 
under the trying conditions of civilized life than when life is passed under 
natural conditions. The artificial life of cities, sedentary occupations, 
the stress and strain of business, and, above all, unhygienic habits of living, 
of which the most harmful are overeating, errors of diet and too groat 
indulgence in spirituous beverages, combine to place old arteries in young 
bodies and to shorten greatly the normal span of life. One cannot "burn 
the candle at both ends" with impunity. 

First, it may be as well to deal with the means for preventing old age, 
and, as it appears to have been decided that diet is the prominent factor in 
its production, the attempt will be made to show how this is so. According 
to Allbutt, one form of arteriosclerosis is due to the excessive or relatively 
excessive consumption of meat and wine, and this form is accompanied 
by a persistence of high arterial pressure. Conheim recognized high blood 
pressure and big heart in gluttons. Traube was one of the first in recent 
times to marshal clinical evidence on "Inxus consumption" and to argue 
the question on scientific lines. Frantzel followed him, with the theory 
that with gluttony arose an overcharge of the veins and a fall of centrifu- 
gal velocity, which propagated a rise of pressure backwards to the capil- 



DIET IN OLD AGE 435 

laries and arteries. The fact must not be forgotten that the arteries of the 
alimentary tract are among the most muscular in the body and have a very 
complex nervous endowment — a mingled vasoconstrictor, vasodilator and 
vagus supply; and in no arteries is medical hypertrophy without calcifi- 
cation so well marked and so palpable. This change, even when absent 
elsewhere in the system, may be found here. Stengel emphasizes as causes 
overfeeding and hereditary predisposition, and says that regulation of diet 
and habits, if it cannot cure, may alleviate the malady even in its ad- 
vanced stages. Sir Lauder Brunton, Dr. W. Russell and many others are 
of the same opinion. Allbutt(18) says that we, as other engines, differ 
widely among ourselves, not only in the quantities of food we need for 
given work, but also in our capacity for dealing with it economically. For 
example, a small eater may be a bad metabolizer. He would, therefore, 
urge that while one man can be gluttonous with impunity, and another 
on a moderate diet become "plethoric," nevertheless, the average man who 
indulges his appetite for food and drink, especially if his habits be seden- 
tary, runs no little risk of high arterial pressure and of imperiling the 
integrity of his arteries. Huchard attributes the spread of arteriosclerosis 
to the increased use of meat during the nineteenth century. As Fanny 
Burney neatly put it, "Tharle's miscalculation of his digestive powers 
ended in apoplexy." Another witty person remarked that a good cook is 
more to be feared when one is in perfect health than a bad doctor when 
one is ill. However, whether mere overfeeding apart from a toxemia can 
raise the blood pressure, as if by a parenchymatous surfeit, is a question 
as yet unanswered. But wo do know that overeating and overdrinking 
frequently bring about chronic constipation and intestinal stasis, which 
result, more often than not, in alimentary toxemia. The blood becomes 
surcharged with the end products of protein digestion — toxic materials — 
and if this condition be allowed to persist, blood pressure is raised, the 
arteries begin to harden, the natural powers of the body abate, and, in 
short, the individual is on the high road to old age. 

Wlien discussing overeating and injudicious diet as factors in bringing 
about untimely senility, it should be well understood that these are by no 
means the only causes. There are persons who, no matter how much they 
may abuse their bodies in this direction, still live to be old in years, whose 
arteries do not harden prematurely, and who, although gross eaters and 
drinkers, continue to enjoy life. On the other hand, there are spare people 
who do not eat or drink to excess, yet their arteries harden, they exhibit 
the symptoms of senility before their time, and become old prematurely. 
Their metabolism is probably defective. In spite of such exceptional 



436 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

cases, there is little doubt that errors of diet, in the direction chiefly of 
self-indulgence, are largely responsible for the great increase of chronic 
diseases — more frequently than not accompanied by arteriosclerosis — so 
melancholy a feature of modern life, and that diet does play a part, the 
importance of which can scarcely be overestimated, in the causation of 
certain conditions distinguished by hardening of the arteries. Theognis, 
an old Greek writer, said: "Surfeit has killed more men than famine," 
and perhaps this saying is even truer to-day than when it was penned. 
Surfeit helps to bring on old age, and to prevent this occurrence, food and 
drink should be taken sparingly. As the diet calculated to prevent old 
age is much the same as that best suited to those .who have become prema- 
turely old or who are old, that question will be dealt with when diet for 
the aged is discussed. 

The warding off of old age is obviously of greater concern than its 
treatment when it has come(19), for after the arteries have become hard- 
ened there is no means, medicinal or dietetic, which will bring back their 
pristine softness and flexibility. Remedial treatment by diet and drugs, 
mainly by diet, may greatly prolong life, but will not cure the condition. 
For these very substantial reasons those who are young, and those who 
lead an indoor life, in particular, should see to it that they exercise a wise 
moderation as regards food and drink and a due discretion as to the kind 
of food. Observe a dictum of Hippocrates that "everything in excess is 
unusual to nature." 

With regard to diet in old age, the consensus of opinion of those who 
have studied the subject is that less food is needed than at other periods 
of life. In fact, this is not a matter of opinion, but of exact knowledge. 
In youth we are going uphill, in old age downhill. In childhood and in 
early youth the physiological powers are concerned with building up the 
organism and developing its various functions, and an ample supply of 
food is required to further these operations. In these days the supply 
exceeds the losses and acts in developing the organism, and the body 
increases in height and weight. The child or youth can eat, and indeed 
needs, an amount of food which the ordinary adult would find beyond his 
requirements. Also during this most active physiological period of life 
the impaired cells are regenerated rapidly and with ease, and new cells 
spring r.p like flowers in the spring and more than counterbalance the 
decay of the affected ones. Nevertheless, the time comes when the proc- 
esses of decay and repair are exactly balanced, and the body has reached 
its full growth or maturity. 

On reaching manhood the individual generally acquires the prevailing 



I 



DIET IN OLD AGE 437 

dietetic habits of his associates, with little disposition to question their 
suitability to himself. If he leads an active life and has plenty of exercise 
in the open air, he may largely exceed, both in quantity and variety of 
food, what is necessary to supply the demands of his system without pay- 
ing a very exorbitant price for the indulgence. A ^'bilious attack" at in- 
tervals affords a safety valve and gets rid of the undesirable balance which 
remains in the case of every hearty eater. In the normal condition of 
things this state of affairs is maintained for many years. After the first 
half or so of life has passed away, however, instead of producing these 
periodical attacks of sickness, the unemployed material may be relegated 
in the form of fat to be stored on the external surface of the body or to be 
packed among the internal organs, producing obesity to a greater or less 
extent. There are some individuals who do not seem to be able to store 
fat, however rich their diet may be or however inactive their habits. In 
such persons, and on occasions in those who do store fat, the excess of food 
material ingested must go somewhere to produce disease in some other 
form, probably at first interfering with the action of the liver, the next 
appearing as gout or rheumatism, or as the cause of fluxes and obstruc- 
tions of various kinds. Gout is, to some extent, a safety valve in the same 
way as bilious attacks in youth, except that it is really damaging to the 
constitution and materially injures it. Up to the time of middle age, if a 
person be robust and vigorous, and possesses a strong digestion, he can con- 
vert a large mass of food into fluid aliment suitable for absorption into the 
system. Moreover, his eliminating powers are active and can pass out of 
the body superfluous material otherwise destined to produce mischief in 
some form. As he advances in years, however, his powers of elimination 
diminish proportionately; less nutriment should therefore be taken, and 
the kind of food in many cases should be different. A due relation should 
be preserved between the "income" and "output," and if this be neglected 
for any considerable time, injury will be done to some of the organs or 
functions of the body. 

It must be remembered that, even if the body be in a healthy condition 
in normal old age, there is a great difference between the health of youth 
and that of age. In youth vitality is strong and the recuperative powers 
are great, the abundant vital forces render the organism elastic so that 
severe illness does not unduly drain the system, and there is a reserve of 
energy which can be called upon, and which is generally equal to the 
demands. In old age there is not this reserve force, the constitution is en- 
feebled and has lost much of its resiliency, vitality is weak, the spring 
of youth is lacking and no longer acts with a force equal to that with which 

128 



438 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PEEIODS 

it is expended — in short, the body cannot respond to the demands made 
upon it as of yore. As Tibbies points out, slight deviations from the 
normal performance of function occur, which may, however, for a long 
time be imperceptible. These gradually increase in extent until they 
become manifest indications of a failure of the bodily powers or of dis- 
ordered health. Exertion produces results which formerly would not have 
been noticeable and exhaustion is out of all proportion to the work per- 
formed. Among the most marked indications of failing metabolism and 
consequent disturbance of the functions are symptoms of disorder of the 
alimentary system. With old age and approaching old age the muscular 
power of the whole system wanes. The muscular fibers of the stomach and 
bowels participate in this decline. But, although the digestive powers and 
those of assimilation diminish, the appetite often remains good, or in some 
persons the custom of eating and drinking freely is so ingrained that it 
has become a habit. ]\Iore food is therefore consumed than can be digested 
or absorbed, md, as mentioned previously, the unabsorbed portion prob- 
ably undergoes putrefaction, and in the end produces that condition known 
as alimentary toxemia ; high blood pressure ensues, and arteriosclerosis is 
aggravated. 

The pathological changes incident to age have been simmied up by 
Metchnikoff as a sclerosis which may affect the brain, liver, kidneys and 
other organs, but is mostly seen in the blood vessels. There are many 
other degenerative changes, but to mention all of these would be superflu- 
ous. Arteriosclerosis is tlie most important. 

Perhaps too great emphasis has been laid on, the point that arterio- 
sclerosis is synonymous with old age. We intend to convey by this state- 
ment that thickening of the arteries may be considered as physiological 
old age. It may occur prematurely, when it is termed premature 
senility, and to a greater or less extent it is generally an accompaniment 
of advanced years, though by no means always. However, whether the 
condition be that of physiological old age or of old age without obvious 
injury of the arteries, the question of diet is all important. In healthy 
old age, where the organs and functions show only the normal and some- 
times but comparatively few degenerative changes, there is, nevertheless, 
always a certain failing of the bodily powers. There are variations and 
changes accompanying the progressive deterioration of the organism in 
which all the organs and functions participate more or less, although it is 
doubtful, except in the case of definite disease of the excretory organs, 
whether the aged suifer in any marked degree from their inefficiency. 
Constipation is usually the most troublesome affliction of senility and the 



» 



DIET IN OLD AGE 439 

phagocytes are particularly active. The object, then, should be to discover 
a means to strengthen the most valuable cellular elements on the one hand, 
and weaken the phagocytosis on the other. The elixir of life is yet to be 
found and, therefore, other and more prosaic methods must be sought to 
achieve this end. While the problem of how to effect this is still far from 
solution, the consensus of opinion is that judicious eating, combined with 
hygienic modes of life in other respects, will do most in this direction, and 
that diet is the main staff upon which to lean. 

All are agreed that in old age the diet should be lighter than in younger 
years, and that the amount of food eaten should vary with the needs of the 
individual. The food should be of an easily digestible kind, and, accord- 
ing to Friedenwald and Ruhriih, it should be given in smaller quantities 
at a time, and the intervals between meals should be shortened. 
Nascher(19), on the other hand, says that the oft-repeated advice that the 
aged should eat little and often is irrational, for digestion is naturally 
slower in old age and frequent feedings keep the stomach constantly at 
work, there being always a mass of food in the stomach in different stages 
of digestion. This, he thinks, is the most common cause of flatulence, 
heartburn and senile gastric catarrh, with its attendant pyrosis and gas- 
trodynia. In old age, according to this writer, food should not be taken 
oftener than once in five- or six-hour intervals, at fixed hours each day. 
The number of meals, like the time of day at which the principal meal is 
taken, is a matter of habit, often of nationality, and does not affect the 
rule. 

As at all adult periods of life, if there be a tendency to obesity, food 
that is apt to be converted into fat should be given in diminished amounts. 
The proteins should be somewhat lessened from time to time. Some 
authorities, including Sir Henry Thompson, advocate a vegetarian diet 
for the old, believing in the proverb, "Much meat, many maladies," but 
others see no valid reason why animal proteins should not be given in 
moderation, especially if the subject has been a consistent meat eater. 
There are those who regard heavy suppers as an abomination. Possibly 
such meals are blazing indiscretions at any period of life, and certainly 
in old age they should be most severely condemned. Likewise eating be- 
tween meals is a habit that is discountenanced, although it is probably less 
harmful than is supposed. The personal equation with regard to diet and 
particular kinds of food holds good just as much with the aged as with the 
person in the prime of life. When an individual has reached the age of 
60 years he ought to have learned which articles of food disagree with him, 
and should refrain from these. A diet laid down on strictly scientific lines 



440 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

will not suit all old people, and a fairly widelatitude should be allowed for 
personal likes and dislikes and for individual idiosyncrasies. Especially 
should monotony in diet be avoided, no matter how perfectly adapted it 
may seem to be from the laboratory standpoint. Cowper's saying, that 
'Variety is the spice of life and gives it all its flavor," applies with as 
much truth to food as to other things. 

Now it is allowed that food is perhaps the most essential factor in 
warding off old age, or rather in avoiding many of the disagreeable accom- 
paniments of old age which are certain to occur if the habit of indulging in 
food to excess or of eating unsuitable viands is persisted in. Dr. Harry 
Campbell (20) states that in his opinion the most suitable dietary for the 
aged is that which constitutes the ideal diet for many in general. Such 
a dietary demands (a) moderation in quantity, (b) simplicity in quality, 
and (c) the avoidance of those starchy foods which are apt to slip into 
the stomach without having first been adequately insalivated. A moderate 
diet is one just sufficient — supposing the various foodstuffs, fats, proteins, 
etc., to be properly balanced — to maintain a person at the slightest weight 
consistent with the most perfect healtli of which he is capable. Simplicity 
is constituted by such items as bread, plain biscuits, plain puddings, 
plainly cooked vegetables, fruit, meat, fowl, fish, milk, Cheddar cheese, 
tea, coffee, cocoa, salt. Dishes calculated to tickle the palate are not in- 
cluded in the simple diet; neither are alcohol nor condiments other than 
salt and, occasionally, pepper and mustard. Avoidance of soft starchy 
foods is essential. All through life, starch should, as far as possible, be 
taken in a form compelling mastication. Soft starchy foods such as pud- 
dings are only admissible on condition that they be thoroughly masti- 
cated. 

The diet of early man conformed to these three requirements. It was 
simple, consisting as it did of unprepared animal and vegetable substances. 
The quantity was not, on the whole, in excess of physiological needs ; and 
all the starchy food, being raw, had to be abundantly masticated in order 
to break up the non-digestible cellulose framework and thus liberate the 
contained foodstuffs. Wlien we come to compare the ideal with the actual 
in the present day, the contrast is discouraging. Too often the stomach 
and bowels are burdened with an excess of food and harassed by a too 
great variety. Efficient digestion is rarely possible under these circum- 
stances, and the blood is surcharged with nutrient matter, much of which 
is in an imperfectly digested form. The tissues being thus bathed in an 
overrich and perverted plasma, metabolism fails to proceed normally and 
health suffers. 



DIET IN OLD AGE 441 

Inasmuch as after early adult life there is a steady waning in the 
ability of the organism to digest and metabolize the food taken, it follows 
that tlie need to conform to the requirements of the ideal dietary becomes 
increasingly pressing with advancing years. 

Campbell elaborates the points which we have touched upon, with re- 
gard to the capacity of the organism to cope with different kinds of food, 
the influence of custom and idiosyncrasy, as well as of age, and his remarks 
are so instructive that it will be fitting to refer to them at length. As to 
the first of these influences, while one should be cautious in recommending 
to an aged person a diet very different from that to which he has for years 
been accustomed, the experience derived from prisons, workhouses and 
similar institutions shows that the ability of the aged to adapt themselves 
to novel kinds of diet is by no means small. It is indeed astonishing what 
can be achieved in this direction if the necessary pressure be brought to 
bear. 

The factor of idiosyncrasy is important. Individuals differ greatly, 
quite irrespective of age, in their digestive and metabolic capacities. We 
meet with children who are unable to tolerate foods which old people can 
digest quite easily, and with others who are made ill by even a slight ex- 
cess, while their grandfathers can, perhaps, consume large quantities with 
comparative impunity. Some old people have, in fact, prodigious powers 
of digestion and metabolism, and we may look upon them as corresponding 
in the physiological sphere to the Shakespeares and ISTewtons in the realm 
of mind. They are physiological geniuses. Most of these old people 
would, however, doubtless enjoy better health, be more amiable and have 
greater consideration for others, on a more abstemious diet ; nevertheless, 
in regulating their food, we must make due allowance for their prodigious 
powers, though not infrequently, by the gratification of their inordinate 
appetites they are paving the way for many and diverse complications. 
If they have high blood pressure and exhibit any of the symptoms of apo- 
plexy, the amount of the food they take should be limited. 

According to Friedenwald and Ruhrah(21), milk may be taken in all 
forms when easily digested, and when it is not well borne the addition of 
warm vichy or warm water will often prove helpful, or the milk may be 
diluted with cereal gruels, or have sodium citrate, one grain to the ounce, 
added to it. Beef tea is often useful, and beef juices may be used if de- 
sired. Eggs, lightly cooked or beaten up with milk are very good, as are 
nutritious soups, such as chicken or fish purees, mutton, beef or chicken 
broth. Young and tender chicken, game and other tender meats and good 
quality potted chicken or other potted meats may be taken. Sweetbreads 



442 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

are easily digested if fresh and properly prepared, but may be contra- 
indicated on account of the purin nitrogen contained. White fish, such as 
sole, whiting, smelts and the like, are all suitable, and are best when, 
boiled. Crisp grilled bacon is relished by many. 

The following foods are also suitable : bread and milk made with the 
crumbs of stale bread and without lumps; porridge and oatmeal gruel; 
puddings of ground rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago or macaroni, with milk 
or eggs, and flavored with spices or served with fruit jelly ; bread and but- 
ter, the latter at least a day old ; rusk, to be soaked in tea or milk and 
water; prepared foods, consisting of predigested starches. At this age 
digestive ferments are scantily provided by the digestive organs, and 
soluble carbohydrates are valuable for maintaining the body heat. All 
farinaceous foods should be subjected to a high temperature for some time 
during the cooking process, so as to render the starch granules more di- 
gestible. Vegetable purees of all kinds may be taken in moderation, e.g., 
potatoes, carrots, spinach and other succulent vegetables. Potatoes and 
fresh vegetables are a necessity ; if omitted, a scorbutic state may be en- 
gendered. Stewed celery and stewed Spanish or Portugal onions lend 
variety to the diet, and stewed or baked fruits, fruit jellies, and the pulp 
of perfectly ripe raw fruits may be taken in small quantity. 

With respect to a diet for old age based on scientific investigations, 
Voit(22), who founded his conclusions on researches made by Forster, 
considered that the conditions of old age indicate a ration of 0.8 the value 
of that for men and women of mature age, in good health and doing mod- 
erate work, as follows : 

VOIT'S DIETARY STANDARD FOR AGED PERSONS 



Protein 



Energy 



Old man, no work 

" « light work . . . 

Old woman, no work. . . 

« light work. 



90 grams 


2,116 calories 


00 « 


2,689 


80 « 


1,831 


85 " 


2,096 



In this standard, as Tibbies points out, no age is stated, and the amount 
of protein is considered by some authorities to be too great. 

Maurel(23) points out that, as age increases, the amount of external 
muscular work becomes smaller, internal muscular work becomes less, 
and therefore the nutritive requirements of the body are correspondingly 
decreased. 



DIET IN OLD AGE 443 

MAUREL'S MAINTENANCE RATIONS FOR OLD PEOPLE 



Age 

Adult 

Fifty to seventy years 

Seventy years and over . . 
Extreme old age 




Energy per Kilo 



35 to 38 calories 
30 " 35 
25 « 30 
20 " 25 



Langworthy(24), by using Maiirel's maximum factors and taking the 
average weight of old men and women to be the same as found by 
Quatelet(25), has framed the following table to show the estimated re- 
quirements of aged people : 

LANGWORTHY'S DIETARY STANDARD FOR THE AGED AND INFIRM 



Subjects 


Age 


Average 


Weight 


Protein 
required 


Energy 
required 


Men 


Years 
60 
70 
80 
90 
60 
70 
80 
90 


Kilos 
65.50 
63.03 
61.22 
57.83 
56.73 
53.72 
51.51 
49.34 


Pounds 
144.1 
138.7 
134.7 
117.2 
124.8 
118.2 
113.3 
108.5 


Grams 
81.9 
78.8 
45.9 
43.4 
70.9 
67.2 
38.6 
37.0 


Grams 
1,965 


u 


1,891 


u 


1,531 


u 


1,446 


Women 


1,702 


a 


1,612 


u 


1,288 


u 


1,234 







Kosevi(26) found that the food consumed by women aged seventy- 
six and seventy-eight years was as follows : 

KOSEVI'S MAINTENANCE RATION FOR THE AGED 



Protein 



Calories 



Woman, seventy-six years, 45 kilos, first diet 

« 45 " second diet . . 

« 45 " third diet. . . . 

Woman, seventy-eight years, 61 kilos, first diet. . . 

"61 " second diet 

" 61 " third diet. . 



77 


grams 


1,361 


66 


u 


1,361 


66 


u 


1,165 


41 


li 


1,275 


41 


u 


1,575 


67 


u 


1,207 



Guriev of Petrograd undertook some experiments to ascertain the 
amount of protein required by old people, and to study the metabolism of 
nitrogen. Five men were selected fi-om sixty-eight to eighty-eight years 
of age. The three younger were hale and hearty, the two elder somewhat 



444 



DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 



decrepit. The dietaries were given in each case, the first including meat 
and milk, the second beef tea, but no meat or milk. The dietaries and 
nitrogen balance are given below : 

NITROGEN METABOLISM IN OLD AGE 



First diet (a) . . 
Second diet (6) . . 



Protein 
90 grams 
55 « 



Fat 
42 grams 

87 " 



Carbohydrate 
372 grams 
385 « 



Calories 
2.296 
2,615 



Age 



Man, 
68 years 



Man, 
74 years 



Man, 
75 years 



Man, 
88 years 



Man, 
88 years 



Dietary 



(a) Meat 100, milk 250, bread 600, 
butter 20, sugar 60 grams; 
tea 1,800 c.c 

(6) Beef tea 500, tea 1,800 c.c. ; po- 
tatoes 600, bread 400, butter 
70, sugar 60 grams 

(o) Meat 142, milk 500, bread 600, 
butter 22, sugar 60 grams; 
tea 1,200 c.c 

(6) Beef tea 500 c.c. ; potatoes 300, 
bread 500, butter 90, sugar 60 
grams; tea 1,200 c.c 

(o) Meat 100, milk 250, bread 55, 
butter 20, sugar 60 grams; 
tea 2,100 c.c 

(6) Beef tea 500 c.c. ; potatoes 600, 
bread 400, butter 90, sugar 60 
grams; tea 2,160 c.c 

(a) Meat 100, milk 500, bread 600, 
butter 30, sugar 60 grams; 
tea 1,530 c.c 

(6) Bread 340, butter 120, sugar 60, 
potatoes 400 grams; tea 1,530 
c.c 

(a) Meat 100, milk 250, bread 600, 
butter 20, sugar 60 grams; 
tea 2,200 c.c. 

(6) Beef tea 500 c.c; potatoes 600, 
bread 400, butter 90, sugar 60 
grams; tea 2,200 c.c 



Days 



5 
5 
10 
8 
5 
7 
5 
5 
5 



Nitrogen 



Grams 

in 
Food 



12.7 

8.9 
17.4 
10.9 
13.0 

8.9 
15.1 

6.7 
13.7 

8.9 



Grams 

in 
Urine 



8.4 
6.5 

14.6 
7.7 
9.0 
6.7 

10.7 
4.3 

10.9 
8.1 



Grams 

in 
Feces 



1.0 
.9 
1.2 
.8 
1.2 
1.8 
1.2 
1.1 
1.8 
.14 



Gain 

or 

Loss 



+4.3 
+2.5 
+1.6 
+2.4 
+2.8 
+ .4 
+3.2 
+1.3 
+ 1.0 
+ .6 



The conclusions drawn from the observations were: (a) The amount of 
protein ordinarily consumed by old men may be diminished if an abun- 
dance of fat and carbohydrate is taken to replace it. (&) The assimilation 
of nitrogen by old men is somewhat less than normal. During the first 



DIET IN OLD AGE 445 

dietary the assimilation of nitrogen averaged 91.15 per cent; in the sec- 
ond diet period, 86.17 per cent. The assimilation of nitrogen by yonng 
men on a similar diet was found to be 94 per cent. In the first, or meat 
period, the ratio of incompletely oxidized products to urea in the urine 
was greater than normal; therefore, the metabolism was inferior to that 
of young men on a similar diet. In the second, or non-meat period, this 
ratio decreased somewhat. When the diet contained less protein, but an 
abundance of fat, the subjects maintained their usual weight and health. 

The recent researches of Schlesinger and Keuman upon the digestive 
functions of thirty healthy individuals over sixty years of age have demon- 
strated that while starch and fat are thoroughly digested, the digestion of 
meat is, as a rule, imperfect. 

According to Munk and Ewald(27), a man doing no work requires 
the following amount of food : 

Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

Man 90 grams 40 grams 350 grams 

Woman 80 " 35 « 300 « 

If this be translated into ordinary articles of diet, it would mean : 
Meat, 80.3 grams; milk, ^ pint; bread, 10 oz. ; biscuit, 2 oz. ; butter, 1 
oz. ; potatoes, ^ lb. ; sugar, f oz. ; wine, 6f oz. ; coffee, 14 oz. 

Von Noorden(28) has suggested the following scale for the reduction 
of the fuel value of the dietary of the aged : 

Age in Years Percentage of Reduction 

60-70 10 

70-80 20 

80 30 

Saundby, in his book on "Old Age, Its Care and Treatment," says that 
the diet of the aged should be reduced in amount in proportion to their in- 
activity. So long as they can work, or take active exercise, they may enjoy 
the diet of adult life, 35 calories per kilogram of body weight, but they 
should be careful to avoid large meals and indigestible food. On account 
of their defective teeth all food should be easily masticated, as, for ex- 
ample, minced or pounded meat and vegetables in puree. The diet should 
contain few toxins, especially purins; a little meat once a day may be 
allowed, preferably at the midday meal, while eggs may replace meat at 
the evening meal. But little alcohol is required, but plenty of water 
should be taken. Little salted food should be given, as we are ignorant 
of the conditions in which chlorids are eliminated. 



446 



DIET m PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 



Old persons leading more or less vegetative lives require a smaller 
amount of food than active adults. We may take it that 30 calories per 
kilo is a sufficient basis for their dietaries, and if they are obese they 
should do with less, as fat ought not to be reckoned in estimating the fuel 
requirements. Saundby thinks these 30 calories might be made up by 
1 gram per kilo of protein, 1 gram per kilo of fat, 4 grams per kilo of 
carbohydrates, so that an old person weighing 70 kilos or 140 poimds 
might be allowed 70 grams of protein, 70 grams of fat and 280 grams of 
carbohydrates, which would give a little over 2,000 calories as against 
2,450 calories for an adult of the same weight leading a moderately active 
life. Thus the daily dietary might be composed of the following articles : 

SAUNDBY'S DAILY DIETARY FOR THE AGED 



Amount of Food 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Calories 


Bread. 250 grams (8 oz.) 


22.08 
17.9 
0.3 
0.0 
1.8 
27.0 
2.6 
0.21 


3.12 

19.6 

0.0 

0.0 

0.12 

7.0 

20.75 

24.3 


127.4 

26.88 

36.0 

29.2 

24.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.15 


640 


Milk, 568 grams (1 pt.) 


375 


Tapioca, 45 grams (1 oz.) 


150 


Sugar, 30 grams (1 oz.) 


120 


Potatoes, 120 grams (4 oz.) 

Lean meat, 100 grams (3^ oz.) .... 

Fat bacon, 30 grams (1 oz.) 

Butter, 30 grams (1 oz.) 


105 
185 
187.5 
270 






Total 


71.89 


74.89 


243.63 


2032.5 







Tea and coffee, beef tea and bouillon, green vegetables and fruit 
in moderation contain so little heat-forming substances that they may be 
left out of account, but may be added to the diet. 

It will be pertinent to the subject in hand to interpolate some rules 
as to the feeding of the aged, and a diet table compiled by Dr. Reynold 
Webb Wilcox (29). 1. Never less than five hours Ix^tween meals. 2. No 
solid food between meals. 3. Principal meal near midday. 4. All meals 
to be as dry as possible. 5. Avoid food likely to cause flatulence. 0. Not 
more than 5 oz. of fluid with each meal. Alcohol only for those who are 
accustomed to its use — J oz. of brandy or whiskey in three or four ounces 
of water, a single glass of port or sherry. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m.: 

Small slice of toast, IJ^ oz., with butter; one soft-boiled or poached egg, or 
half a small haddock or other white fish; 3 to 5 ounces of tea or coffee with 
cream and sugar; tea may be replaced by cocoa or milk with hot water; well- 
boiled oatmeal, 3 to 4 ounces with 4 to 5 ounces of milk may be substituted 
for tea. 



DIET i:Nr OLD AGE 



447 



Dinner, 1 p.m.: 

Two courses fish or meat; pudding or fruit; white fish, short fiber, boiled, steamed 
or broiled half; small chicken, white meat or sweetbreads; game, lamb, small 
potato boiled or baked or a small portion of spinach; pudding, a simple milk 
pudding, or rice, sago, tapioca or suet; fruit, as ripe pears, apples, grapes, 
4 to 6 ounces; hot water to be taken if desired. 
Tea, 5 p.m.: 

Tea with cream and sugar but no food; in place of tea, a teaspoonful of solid 
beef extract in hot water may be taken. 
Supper, 7 p.m.: 

White fish and one potato or toast with butter. Milk pudding or bread and 
milk. 
10 P.M.: 

Five ounces of hot water to be sipped. For the relief of thirst, beef tea or hot 
water, to be sipped four hours after each or the principal meal. 

Saundbj, in order to illustrate the distribiTtion of the amount of food 
in his table still further, suggests the following arrangement of meals : 

SAUNDBY'S DAILY DIETARY FOR THE AGED SHOWING DISTRIBU- 
TION OF MEALS 



NO. I 



Breakfast 
]/2 pint of tea 
3 oz. milk 
]4: oz. sugar 
3 oz. bread 
3^ oz. butter 
1 oz. bacon 



Dinner 
Z\io7,. meat 
4 oz. potato 
1 oz. tapioca 
4 oz. milk 
3^ oz. sugar 
1 oz. bread 



Tea 
}/2 pint of tea 
3 oz. milk 
}/i oz. sugar 
3 oz. bread 
3^ oz. butter 



Supper 
10 oz. milk 
1 oz. bread 



NO. II 



}/2 pint coffee 
1 oz. oatmeal 
6 oz. milk 
]4: oz. sugar 
]/2 oz. butter 
3 oz. bread 



6 oz. fish 
4 oz. potato 
1 oz. milk 
1 oz. butter 
Stewed fruit 
]/2 oz. sugar 
1 oz. bread 



}/2 pint tea 
3 oz. milk 
}4: oz. sugar 
3 oz. bread 
]/2 oz. butter 



10 oz. milk 
1 oz. bread 



Another dietary for an old person of seventy, weighing from 120 to 140 
pounds, affording 1,950 calories, would contain: 

47 grams albumin 
314 " carbohydrates 
54 « fat 
20 « alcohol 



448 DIET m PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

Such a diet may be thus distributed : 

Morning meal: 

Milk 8 oz. 

Sugar % oz. 

Bread 2 oz. 

Butter H oz. 

Midday meal: 

Bread 3 oz. 

Meat or fish 2 oz. 

Vegetables or fruit 2 oz. 

Beer 3^ pint 

Evening meal: 

Bread 3 oz. 

Eggs 2 oz. 

Light pudding 4 oz. 

Whiskey K oz. 

The caloric value of a diet may be raised easily by adding to the fat 
in the form of butter, cream, fat bacon, suet pudding or cheese. With re- 
gard to cheese, it may be said that a plain, good, wholesome cheese is 
peculiarly well adapted as a food for the aged. It is palatable and nutri- 
tious and, while it requires sufficient mastication to produce insalivation, 
it can be readily masticated by the toothless or by those who lack their 
full quota of teeth. Cod-liver oil, when it can be taken, is useful, as half 
an ounce of oil daily will afford approximately 150' calories. After fat 
come the starches and sugars. Cane sugar, as almost pure carbohydrate, 
can be tolerated in only small quantities. Old men who have been meat 
eaters, drinkers and smokers, have lost their taste for sweet things, and, 
in fact, often have a distaste for them, but this aversion can be overcome. 
Cane sugar is nourishing and by some British authorities is highly lauded 
in the treatment of arteriosclerosis. It is better assimilated if cooked, as 
in milk puddings or added to fruit well stewed. Raw sugar should be 
viewed somewhat askance, as it is likely to upset the digestion, but small 
quantities will do no harm. Perhaps as much milk as can be digested 
without discomfort may be taken, but a pint daily is sufficient. Sour 
milk of late has been given great prominence by Metchnikoff, and is 
undoubtedly useful in old age. If too sour for the palate, it may be 
sweetened with sugar, honey, jam or treacle, and may be added to por- 
ridge, hominy, boiled rice, or to any breakfast food. It is especially val- 
uable, being slightly laxative, in cases of chronic constipation, the greatest 
bane of old age. Metchnikoff recommended its use on accoimt of its 
power of diminishing the toxicity of the bowel contents, and thereby pre- 



DIET IN OLD AGE 



449 



venting those senile degenerative changes which he deems largely the result 
of intestinal intoxication. Buttermilk is also valuable when whole milk 
cannot be properly digested. The casein it contains furnishes its nutritive 
value, but its caloric value is on the average only about half of that of 
milk. Kumiss or kefir when fresh acts as a laxative. It is easily digested 
and highly nutritious in large quantities from a pint and a half to three 
pints daily. 

Campbell (30), who is the chief prophet of thorough mastication and 
spare living, points out that the appetite for plain food may continue to 
extreme old age. At one of the large London workhouses the daily diet 
for men over 60 years of age is as follows : Bread, 20 oz. ; margarin, 1 oz. ; 
sugar, 1 oz. ; meat, 4 oz. ; potatoes, 8 oz. ; greens, 4 oz. ; pudding, once 
weekly; stewed fruit, once weekly; tea, 2 pints; salt and pepper daily; 
mustard once a week; no alcohol. Campbell says that the inmates con- 
sume it all and enjoy it thoroughly, complain very little of indigestion, 
and, what is more surprising, suffer little from constipation. 

The alimentary pastes have high food value and are easily digested 
if cooked simply. Thus they are eminently suitable as a diet or part of the 
diet of old people. According to Combe, they are corriposed of the gluten 
of wheal with a considerable proportion of starch, and are of especial value 
in the dietetics of intestinal diseases. Not only is the nutritive value 
of these foods high, hut they are cheap. They cost but little more than 
rice, sago and tapioca, and have at least double the nutritive value. 



ALIMENTARY PASTES: FOOD VALUE 





Protein 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Fat 


Calories per 
300 Grams 


Macaroni 


12.15 

12.82 

12.31 

2.77 

5.40 


74.58 
70.78 
75.16 
27.33 

87.18 


0.78 
0.74 
1.95 
0.07 
0.19 


340 


Vermicelli 


335 


Italian Paste 


345 


Rice, boiled 


119 


Tapioca 


350 







With regard to the question of allowing old people tea, coffee or cocoa, 
opinion is divided. Coffee and tea are barred by some authorities as pos- 
sessing no food value and as containing a poisonous principle — caffein, 
theobrorain and, on occasion, a considerable amount of tannin. They 
delay digestion, and when tannin is present in relatively large quantities 
they tend to irritate the mucous membrane of the alimentary tract. They 
stimulate to some extent the heart and nerve centers. Thus, the case 



450 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PEKIODS 

against the use of such beverages for the old would seem at first thought to 
be very strong, yet when we look at the other side of the mirror and con- 
sider that the drinking of tea or coffee is a life-long habit and, like all 
habits, hard to discontinue, our view is somewhat modified. However, 
there are many harmful habits which it is wise and expedient to break, and 
if it were proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that either tea, coffee or 
cocoa drinking really injured old people, then our advice would be not to 
take any of these infusions or mixtures. But when these beverages, are 
of good quality (in the case of tea that variety which contains the least 
amount of tannin) and prepared with care, we are of the opinion that the 
harm done, in the majority of instances, is counterbalanced by their pleas- 
ure-giving physiological effect. They are indulgences, it is true, and 
stimulants in a slight degree, and should only be taken in strict modera- 
tion by those elderly people who have been accustomed to their use all 
their lives, and who suffer no inconvenience from their use. 

The condition of the teeth of the aged is a matter of much importance 
and is not infrequently responsible, to some extent, for some of the digest- 
ive troubles from which they suffer. This loss or partial loss of the me- 
chanical means provided to man for masticating his food is regarded in 
different lights by different authorities. Sir Henry Thompson is of the 
opinion that the disappearance of the masticating powers is mostly coinci- 
dent with the period of life when that species of food which most requires 
their action — namely, solid animal fiber — is little if at all required by the 
individual. It is during the latter third of his career that the softer and 
lighter foods, for which teeth are barely necessary, are particularly valu- 
able and appropriate, and the man with imperfect teeth who conforms to 
nature's demand for a mild non-stimulating dietary in advanced years 
will mostly be blessed with a better digestion and sounder health than the 
man who, thanks to his artificial machinery, can eat and does eat as much 
flesh in quantity and variety as he did in the days of his youth. 

Campbell takes an opposite view. He points out that people who have 
no teeth at all are often better able to masticate than those with a few only, 
for in the former case the gums are allowed to come together and harden, 
enabling them to cope with many kinds of food, whereas if the mouth 
is furnished with teeth, no two of which are opposed, they are useless for 
purposes of mastication. He says that though the former argument seems 
plausible enough, prima facie, when examined critically, it will be found 
to have no basis in fact. If senile edentation has any biological meaning 
at all, it indicates not that nature desires a return to the diet of infancy, 
but rather that the time has come to cease eating altogether and to lie down 



DIET m OLD AGE 



451 



aud die, for under natural primitive conditions the lack of teeth implies 
death from starvation. Consequently, properly fitting teeth cannot but be 
of very great advantage to the aged. 

The latter argument seems to us stronger by far than the assertion that 
because in old age teeth come out it signifies that they are no longer 
needed. Mastication, if not so essential in old age as in the adult period, 
is yet a valuable power to possess. If food, carbohydrates in particular, 
is not masticated, it is not sufficiently insalivated, and digestion thereof 
is hindered and stomach and intestinal troubles are certain to ensue. 
Moreover, a mainly pap diet, consisting largely of soft starchy food, is not 
the kind of diet to suit a healthy or, indeed, even a somewhat feeble old 
person who has been in the custom of eating heartily of more substantial 
fare. We agree with Campbell that thorough mastication is good for the 
old, for, be the diet mainly protein or carbohydrate, mastication and in- 
salivation are aids to proper digestion the importance of which can scarcely 
be overestimated. We agree, too, with Thompson (31) that the old do not 
require their teeth to consume as much animal protein as they were accus- 
tomed to when in full vigor of manhood, for they most assuredly need, as 
a rule, but a limited amount of animal food. Campbell, however, is in 
favor of a simple diet with not a large amount of animal protein through- 
out life, and indeed sees no reason to differ the dietary of healthy old age 
and adult life to any great extent. 

The consumption of meat in old age is still in some degree a mooted 
question. There are many of the opinion of Sir Henry Thompson, 
who hold that at any period of life the use of meat should be 
limited, and others, like Campbell, who believe that to be full fed 
throughout life is in the best interests of good health. There are yet 
others, like Woodruff, who think that no particular stint of animal 
food is necessary. As a matter of fact, it is impossible and would be pre- 
sumptuous to lay down any rigid rules of diet in order to prolong life. 
Heredity is one of the most important factors in the attainment of this 
consummation, while diet undoubtedly is of the first significance and of 
special import in advanced age. Scientific investigations and observations 
and practical experience have both taught that less food is needed after a 
certain age has been reached and that the ingestion of meat should be 
diminished. Nevertheless, a great deal depends on what kind of life is 
led. If active and fairly strenuous, a person, although old, requires a suf- 
ficiently generous amount of food, and if he is accustomed to eating meat, 
the amount should not be unduly restricted. In most cases it is advisable 
to reduce the amount of animal food to one-half of that consumed by people 



452 DIET IN PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

in middle life. Certain it is that, if arteriosclerosis has made much head- 
way, very little meat should be eaten. Allbutt says on this point that the 
sum of the argument is, so far as butcher's meat and arteriosclerosis are 
concerned, that certain observations which we owe to Abelous and others 
offer evidence with some clearness to show that one or two definite and 
separable crystalline products produced by bacteria, especially by a specific 
bacillus of the colon group, can affect the blood pressure. 

Dietetic restrictions are obviously indicated in the bronchitis of the 
aged. Many of such patients are allowed to die through carelessness in 
diet. As Campbell shows it is not merely that overeating begets bron- 
chitis. The bronchitis and the emphysema that goes along with it curtail 
the respiratory capacity, and so prevent the excess of food from being 
burned off. In fact, the only hope of saving the obese bronchitic patient 
is by a systematic semistarvation. 

Campbell (30) thinks that for elderly and aged gourmands it is gen- 
erally even more necessary to cut down the allowance of starch and sugar 
than animal food, although this should also be curtailed if excessive. All 
appear to be agreed that alcohol in any form is of little value in the diet 
of the aged, and should never be taken when a high blood pressure exists. 

The warding off of old age, and more particularly the warding off of 
premature old age, can perhaps in the majority of cases be effected by care- 
ful diet. But it must ever be remembered that as there are all sorts and 
conditions of men, so there are all sorts and conditions of constitutions and 
idiosyncrasies. Some, whether they eat sparingly or profusely, suffer 
from digestive troubles and are apt to grow old prematurely. They are 
bad metabolizers. This class is not a very large one, and even with them 
life may be prolonged by paying extreme attention to their alimentation. 
Again there are those who possess sensitive stomachs and whose digestive 
processes are easily upset, albeit they may be sound in constitution. These 
are generally persons of nervous temperament, who, if they exercise care 
in their dietetic regimen, may live to be very old. This type, like creak- 
ing gates, lasts longest. Then there are the hale and hearty individuals 
who by reason of their robustness and strong digestive and assimilative 
powers, eat and drink to excess, and who frequently by so doing bring 
their lives to an abrupt end. As a rule, the moderate eaters and drinkers 
live the longest. 

Yeo(32) gives the following useful suggestions in regard to the diet of 
the aged : 

Any sudden changes in diet should be avoided, and the intervals between the 
ingestion of food should not exceed six or eight hours. 



DIET IN OLD AGE 453 

It is very common for elderly people to awaken early in the morning, at three 
or four o'clock, and to be unable to drop off to sleep again, but if they have some 
light form of nourishment at the bedside, such as a glass of milk or a little gruel, 
which they can take at that time, they will often continue their sleep. 

The acidity of certain stewed fruits may be advantageously neutralized by 
the addition of a' little bicarbonate of soda, so as to avoid the use of a large 
quantity of cane sugar, as this is apt to cause gastric fermentation and acidity. 
In stewing fruit, about as much soda as will cover a shilling should be added to 
each pound of fruit. 

Aged persons often require their food to be accompanied with some kind of 
condiment, which promotes their digestion and prevents flatulence. Caviare and 
the roes of smoked and salted herrings are of this nature. 

For sweetening food, milk sugar is much less prone to excite acid fermentation 
than cane sugar. 

A very digestible form of fat — when it is needed — is cream, mixed with an 
equal quantity of hot water and about ten drops of sal volatile to each fluid ounce. 

KEFERENCES 

1. Stare, M. Allen. Diseases of Infancy and Childhood. 

2. Watson. Foods and Feeding. 

3. Hall, Winfield S. Nutrition and Dietetics. 

4. Fitch, W. E. Eations for Yonng Boys' Military Training Camp, 

Mil. Surgeon, April, 1917. 

5. Gephart. Russell Sage Institute of Pathology; Editorial, J. Am. 

Med, Assn. 

6. LusK, Graham. Food Economics, J., Washington Academy of Sci- 

ence, 1916, vol. vi, p. 390. 

7. Hall, Winfield S. Nutrition and Dietetics, pub. by D. Appleton 

& Co., 1913. 

8. Benedict, A. L. Golden Rules of Dietetics. 

9. Richards. A Study in Dietaries, 1901. 

10. Prochownick. Zentralbl. f. Gyniik., 1899, p. 33. 

11. Edgar, J. C. Practical Obstetrics, pub. by Blakiston, 5th ed. 

12. Gautier. Diet and Dietetics. 

13. RoTcii, T. M. American Text-book of Pediatrics, W. B. Saunders, 

Philadelphia. 

14. Tilts. Change of Life, London. 

15. TiBBLES. Food and Hygiene, published by Rebman Co. 

16. Thoburn. Diseases of Women. 

17. Bishop, L. Fatjgeres. Arteriosclerosis, Oxford Med. Publication, 

London, 1915. 

18. Allbutt. System of Medicine. 
129 



454 DIET m PHYSIOLOGICAL PERIODS 

19. Naschek, I. L. Geriatrics — Diseases of Old Age, pub. by Blakis- 

ton, 1916. 

20. Campbell. Sutherland's System of Diet and Dietetics. 

21. Fkiedenwald and Ruhrah. Diet in Health and Disease. 

22. VoiT. Zschr. f. Biol., 1876, p. 32. 

23. Maurel. Rev. Soc. scient. d'hyg. aliment., 1906, p. 763. 

24. Langworthy. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. 22. 

25. Quatelet. Landois and Stirling's Human Physiology, 1891. 

26. KosEVL Centralbl. f. inn. Med., 1901, p. 121. 

27. MuNK and Ewald. Diseases of the Stomach. 

28. VON NooRDEN. Metabolisui and Practical Medicine. 

29. Wilcox, R. W. Tlie Treatment of Disease, pub. by Blakiston. 

30. Campbell. Brit. Med. J., May, 1907, p. 1229. 

31. Thompson, W. Gilman. Practical Dietetics. 

32. Yeo, Burney. Text-book of Physiology. 



CHAPTEK XIV 

HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 
William P. Cuxningham, A.M., M.D. 

General Considerations. 

Chronic Intestinal Stasis; Diseases Due to Chronic Intestinal Stasis; 

Considerations of Diet in Chronic Intestinal Stasis; Hygiene of the 

Intestinal Canal, 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

The subject of this chapter has a great deal broader scope than would 
appear upon cursory examination. The hygiene of the intestinal tract 
has a deeper significance than the relief of certain local disturbances, de- 
pendent upon the imperfect evacuation of the lower segment. It has to 
do with problems of a grave and far-reaching character. To appreciate 
this, it will be necessary to recall the construction of the abdominal viscera 
with especial reference to the matter of drainage. 

We shall content ourselves by simply recalling that the human being 
is a hollow organism from the mouth to the anus. There exists, then, a 
continuous membranous tube with dilatations and constrictions demanded 
by the exigencies of the situation. The pharynx, the esophagus, the stom- 
ach, the small and the large intestine vary in size, but constitute one con- 
tinuous canal. Anything that enters at the mouth, must exit at the anus 
unless absorbed in transit. It is obvious that for the proper functioning 
of such a tubular organ, there must be an unobstructed right of way. Any 
unusual constriction anywhere in its course may convert it into "no thor- 
oughfare" and induce a train of consequences of the most surprising and 
deplorable kind. The numberless evil things that accumulate in the prog- 
ress of a more or less thoroughly digested mixture from the stomach to 
the rectum, may be detained by abnormalities of the channel, until they 
have accomplished various toxic reactions and been absorbed into the gen- 
eral circulation. Locally also they produce irritations of a serious nature. 

455 



456 



HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 



An uninterrupted fair way would in all likelihood have been main- 
tained had man not risen from the posture for which he had originally 
been designed. Going on all fours, his intestines swung free from their 
mesenteric attachments to his spine. There was no danger of kinking, 
fouling or jamming of the various loops. The chylous tide swept on with 
perfect freedom to its destination. But when in the assumption of his 
new-found dignity he proudly drew himself erect, the relation of the gut 
to its attachments was entirely altered. It now dragged upon a mesentery 
clinging to a perpendicular support and was thrown into unpremeditated 
disarray. It sustained "strained relations" with its environment 

As the advance of man in the refinements of civilization entailed in- 
creasing impairment of the muscular energy of his aboriginal forbears, he 
began to experience the inevitable results of the faulty position of his ab- 
dominal contents. Debility, disease, corsets, gluttony, sloth, obesity, 
caused the prolapse of the imperfectly secured intestines, and they sagged 
into feeble pouches, incapable of adequate peristalsis, and making a con- 
stant traction on the contiguous sections. Nature, ever conservative, 
strove to offset this injurious derangement by passing supporting bands 
under the dragging loops. As frequently happens, nature overreached her- 
self. The new supports became added elements of danger and distress. 

The weight of the prolapsed 
portion caused an angular 
distortion at the site of the 
supplementary slings, for 
all the world as if one hung 
an empty hose over a fence. 
Against this added obstruc- 
tion the already fatigued 
intestine struggled with di- 
minishing success. The ac- 
cumulation behind the ob- 
struction steadily increased, 
while the gut in front was 
empty and collapsed. Here 
was established what Sir 
Arbuthnot Lane has so 
aptly termed a cesspool, and 
in that cesspool are gen- 
erated, as in the most pro- 
ductive culture medium, a 




Fig. 6. — Case X. Inflammatory, Superimposed 
UPON Evolutionary Stasis. Lane's band, 
with potential kink; prolapsed transverse 
colon, ascending colon, and sigmoid; Jon- 
nesco's fold; Jackson's membrane. Three sets 
of firm fibrous bands, just below ileocecal 
valve, extend from ileum to right iliac fossa, 
one to right ovary. 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 



457 



I 



host of microbial invaders whose varied activities are responsible for 
most of the ills that flesh is heir to. This is no overdrawn or fanciful 
picture. It is a plain statement of truth susceptible of the completest 
corroboration. 

No fact in medical practice is of more ancient usage than the effort 
to overcome constipation. The evil of the inactive bowel has ever been 
recognized. ''Make a hole through" was the homely dictum of the old 
schoolmen. In this injunction they epitomized the whole question of in- 
testinal stasis and adequate drainage. They did not comprehend the 
causes at work in preventing this essential function. They attributed to 
many agencies, conditions which we have found largely confined to one. 
They talked of diet and torpid liver and insufficient exercise and defective 
innervation, and they some- 
times cured a case where such 
factors had brought about a 
fecal blockade in the rectum. 
But they realized that the 
failure of the bowel to empty 
itself created a pathological 
situation of serious import 
which demanded all their sci- 
ence to remove. It consti- 
tuted the stopping of a sewer 
with a backing up of its dele- 
terious contents. No discrim- 
ination was made between the 
massing of dried effete detritus 
of a comparatively harmless 
character in the part of the. 
tract least provided with ab- 
sorbents, and a fluid compound of putrescent material stagnant at the 
gaping mouths of numberless lymphatics. The lower bowel could be 
emptied; its repacking could be prevented. Diet, exercise and laxatives 
were all-sufficient here. Just a little care and watchfulness achieved the 
desired result and made the reputation of some wonderful cathartic. 

But of the organic barrier above, of the angular kink, of the saccu- 
lated cesspool, they had no glimmering, and consequently could not intelli- 
gently direct their therapeutic fire. It remained for the adventurous 
English surgeon. Sir Arbuthnot Lane, to discover the obstructing abnor- 
mality, and boldly proclaim it to a skeptical profession. So ill was his 




FlG. 7. — E. B., Female, 30, Single. Lane's band; 
ileal stasis; appendix and ovary caught in 
band; caecum dilated. 



k 



458 



HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 



evangel received by rock-ribbed couservatism that be was booted out of bis 
scientific societies. He was tbrust outside tbe breastworks by bis English 
confreres, and stigmatized as something uncanny and unclean. It was 
only when he appealed to the surgeons of America that he began to make 
impression on the general incredulity. He proved his case and the repute 
of bis success traveling back to the slower innovators at home, rehabili- 
tated him in the good opinion of his own people. The doubt, reproach 
and derision with which he had been originally received gave place to 
confidence and respect. 



CHRONIC INTESTINAL STASIS 

Chronic intestinal stasis due to mechanical obstruction was firmly 
planted in the pathology of advanced medical thought. Not that all oppo- 
sition to the idea has been 
overcome. While man has 
]>ower of cerebration, differ- 
ences of opinion will persist. 
It is impossible to break 
down tbe adamantine resist- 
ance of prejudice and con- 
ceit. Both will hold out 
against the plainest evidence 
of their erroneous attitude. 
But men of ordinary sober 
judgment, comprising as they 
do the great majority of our 
confraternity, are susceptible 
to conviction and ready to 
yield assent upon presenta- 
tion of the facts of the case. 
So while we occasionally hear a protesting note from some lofty pin- 
nacle, while some eagle flaps his wings and declines to see anything but 
his own reflection in tbe sun, while some bird of lesser quality croaks 
his envious disapprobation, the dissonance is swallowed in the chorus of 
approval arising from the level-headed searchers after truth. True to 
its etymology, stasis has come to stay; we mean only in the etiological 
sense and not in the sense of an incurable condition. 

In order to intelligently treat an anatomical distortion of this charac- 
ter, thus mischievously situated, it is incumbent to grasp clearly not only 




Fi(i. 8. — J. S. Chronic Intestinal Stasis, with 
Vkby Hroai) Band Anculatino Dtodkno- 
Jh:jUNAi. Junction. Dilated duodenum; band 
angulating duodeno-jejunal junction; col- 
lapsed jejunum. 



CHKONIC INTESTINAL STASIS 



459 



all the demonstrated consequences but also the inferential and rationally 
deducible conclusions in the premises. Before we may suggest measures 
of relief, we must be able to show wherein the economy is at fault. Hav- 
ing established the fact of chronic intestinal stasis, it was necessary to 
associate it with degrees of disability and danger sufficient to warrant rad- 
ical interference. This has been accomplished. It is maintained by emi- 
nent authorities that intestinal putrefaction conduces to brevity of exist- 
ence. Where actual disease is produced thereby, this is undeniable. 
Where no such disease is definable, we must rely upon our reason to sup- 
ply the explanation. 

It is unquestionable that the constant absorption of poisonous elements 
into the general system must put upon it a Sisyphus' task of elimination. 
This taxes the arterial capacity to the 
utmost. The vessels are working at 
high pressure all the time and eventu- 
ally undergo permanent changes for the 
effectual performance of the exaggerated 
function. The kidneys respond to the 
increased demands of the throbbing ar- 
teries by a temporarily raised efficiency, 
which is followed as a matter of course 
by a steadily growing deficiency and 
a speedy termination of the career of 
the organism. This is deduction, and 
seems to be borne out by numerous 
observations. 

We are quite persuaded also that 
many of the maladies for which we have 
no satisfactory etiology can be traced to 
the pestilential puddle in the sacculated 
gut. No man knows the extent of the 
chemical combinations therein effected. 
All the circumstances are favorable for 

the unimpeded development of deleterious bacteria and alkaloidal poisons 
of variable virulence. Shortly after eating clams, men have died with 
symptoms of acute toxemia. Here the poison was undoubtedly introduced 
with the clams. But such an article eaten fresh and coming partly digested 
into a prolapsed, distended and disabled intestine (to fester and rot in 
the heat and moisture), would be perfectly capable of achieving the same 
appalling result. Steadily surging forward through an unobstructed chan- 




FiG. !).-(. ". Chronic iMi:,sri.\AL 
Stasis, with Marked Duodeno-Je- 
JUNAL Kink, Causing Distention 
OF Duodenum. Bands, causing duo- 
deno-jejunal kink; jejunum; stom- 
ach; dilated duodenum. 



460 HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 

nel, the putrefiable matter would have quickly reached a region where 
absorption was tardy and the danger practically negligible. The plumbers 
put "traps" in the course of their waste pipes to prevent the ascent of 
poisonous gases from the sewer. This word might be fairly applied to the 
fallen sections of hollow viscera constituting the pathology of stasis. They 
are veritable "traps" for the retention of the deadly excrement seeking 
an avenue of escape. This slight play upon words will serve to impress 
the real conditions back of most of the cases of intestinal putrefaction. It 
is doubtful whether putrefaction of any considerable degree could take 
place in an intestine operating with unhindered peristalsis. Nature is 
able to take care of much excessive material if she is not crippled or de- 
formed. 

Diseases Due to Chronic Intestinal Stasis. — The great English surgeon 
who blazed the trail that has brought us to such a land of hope and prom- 
ise, claimed to have proved the causation of many grave affections in the 
toxic reactions of the delayed ileal effluent. Diabetes mellitus, rheumatoid 
arthritis, tuberculosis, epilepsy, ulcerative endocarditis, nephritis, pyelitis, 
cystitis, salpingitis, cholecystitis, Raynaud's disease and cancer of the in- 
testines are all the direct or indirect result of mechanical interference 
with body drainage. This is a fearsome list and a bold challenge! But 
the quality of its sponsor should curb the tongue of impetuous distrust. 
Men of that stamp do not idly maintain untenable opinions. They speak 
with conviction. The presence of a low-grade inflammatory focus near 
the head of the pancreas, permeated with bacteria and sodden with toxins, 
supplies a plausible explanation of the disturbance of that associated organ 
in our conception of the pathogenesis of diabetes. In view of the inade- 
quacy of every other hypothesis, it is judicious to accord this one careful 
consideration. Operation has resulted favorably in this notoriously un- 
promising metabolic anomaly. 

RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS.— Rheumatoid arthritis, inexorable as fate 
in the cumulative crippling of its miserable victim, has baffled the pa- 
tience and ingenuity of our ablest investigators. Etiology and therapeu- 
tics alike have been barren. Absurdity has distinguished some of the 
suggestions offered. This is likely to happen in conditions of great ob- 
scurity. So little light is available that any flicker is noticeable. Even 
Riggs' disease has had its passing vogue in this etiological relation. But 
now comes Lane with a causative factor big enough to fit the conditions. 
Instead of a few bacteria emerging from the depths of an alveolar abscess, 
and furnishing to the imagination an altogether insufficient explanation 
of such tremendous consequences, we are asked to observe a mighty incu- 



CHRONIC INTESTINAL STASIS 461 

bator reeking with the pestilential products of decomposing nitrogenized 
compounds. Here is a source worthy of respectful attention. It is obvi- 
ous that here could originate any conceivable assault, no matter how 
deadly, upon the integrity of the organism. Our sense of proportion is 
satisfied, and when by brilliant surgical intervention the progress of the 
disease is halted and ankylosis limbers up, we are confronted with a situ- 
ation summarized in the wise old aphorism about the proof of the pudding 
being in the eating. The startling improvement in cases of epilepsy 
treated with reference to intestinal incitation is a remarkable testimonial 
to the genius of men who have had the courage of their unusual convic- 
tions. 

ULCER OF THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM.— Ulcer of the stomach 
and duodenum is doubtless due to the irritation resulting from angular 
obstruction of the latter by the downward pull of the rest of the small in- 
testine. The stomach becomes secondarily dilated from the constant py- 
loric contraction maintained to resist the regurgitation of the duodenal 
contents. Present now are the factors favorable to the development of 
cancer ; local irritation ; local interference with circulation ; the swarming 
microbes indigenous to decomposing tissue. Infection of the gall bladder 
and liver may take place through their ducts, and so-called primary can- 
cer of the liver may be a consequence of this invasion. 

The appendix may be involved in the band extending from the cecum 
upwards and outwards and producing a kink or some other obstruction to 
its lumen. The appendix may be otherwise affected by its fixation, 
through acquired bands, to the under surface of the ileum. The large 
bowel may be attached on the left side to the pelvic brim, greatly impeding 
the descent of fecal matter. The false membrane here may enclose the left 
ovary, with the ultimate result of a cystic tumor. In short, adventitious 
bands may appear at any point demanding additional support and may 
interfere in many ways with the activity of the whole tract, or may exert 
damaging pressure on structures in their neighborhood. The serious con- 
sequences sometimes attendant on the position of these bands have been 
rapidly recited. Others less menacing but nevertheless trying and objec- 
tionable extend the evil influence of this abnormality to an immense 
degree. 

The ductless glands are coming into their own as important factors in 
the elucidation of many physical disorders. We have long known of the 
affection of the thyroid and the suprarenals. We are familiar with ex- 
ophthalmic goiter and myxedema. We are as well acquainted with Addi- 
son's disease and its tell-tale bronzing of the skin, but we could not here- 



462 



HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 




tofore account for the perversion of glandular activity. We are acquiring 
illuminating information with regard to the attributes of the pituitary, 
the thymus, the testis and the ovary. We perceive that many disturb- 
ances of metabolism are connected with their derangement, but that is 
only a partial solution of the problem presented, for what is responsible 

for the derangement? 
Lane has succeeded in 
associating degenera- 
tion of the thyroid 
with chronic intestinal 
stasis and has made 
out a very reasonable 
case in the matter of 
the suprarenals. It is 
fully in accord with 
the best thought of 
modern medicine that 
these ductless glands 
should suffer from mi- 
crobic incursions; and 
where should be the 
most likely breeding place but this very cesspool seething within the 
patient's abdomen ? 

EFFECT OF STASIS ON THE INTERNAL SECRETIONS.— The study of the 
internal secretion is progressing with great diligence and success and we 
may expect to find therein the explanation of many perplexities. But 
hand in hand should go the inquiry into the state of the internal secre- 
tions as the cause of disease, dyscrasia or disorder, and as the pathological 
consequences of a previously existing infection. The last word has not 
been said when we cry out "internal secretions." We may show them as 
the cause of acromegaly and scleroderma and osteomalacia, and a growing 
list of obscure maladies, but only a part of the work is done; we must 
link them with the reason of their seemingly erratic action. Feeding 
pituitary extract will be incomplete and indecisive therapeusis compared 
with the removal of the glandular irritant. The dermatoses dependent 
upon or aggravated by intestinal putrefaction are many and various. It 
is generally conceded that any retardation of peristaltic action tends to the 
development of acne, eczema, urticaria, toxic erythema, erythema multi- 
forme, bromidrosis and pruritus. The foul breath, apathy, headache and 
sallowness establish the identity of the suspected agency. The sweeping 



Fig. 10. — Case V. Dilated ileum proximal to Lane's hand; 
Lane's band; ileopelvic band; angulated appendix 
caught in hand; Jackson's membrane. 



CHRONIC INTESTINAL STASIS 463 

out of the bowels, if complete, has a pronounced effect upon the cutaneous 
manifestations. But frequently the most vigorous campaign will fail to 
give us satisfactory evacuations, and the skin will resist our rilost intensive 
medication. Here we have to deal undoubtedly with a blocking of the in- 
testinal lumen by mechanical obstacles. The cathartics are unable to 
force the straits and the stretched and straining gut retains its poisonous 
fecundity. 

ACIDOSIS. — The interpolation of acidosis adds a word to the etiological 
hypothesis without detracting from its credibility. We accept the fact of 
acidosis just as we accept the fact of the internal secretions. It may be 
admitted that the skin eruptions enumerated above are fairly attributable 
to acidosis. It is certain that alkalies play a large part in the reputedly 
effective medical treatment, but acidosis is a terminal or intermediate con- 
dition, and invariably dependent on some other disturbing factor. Acido- 
sis kills the victim of diabetes, but it does not constitute nor originate dia- 
betes. All toxemias include an acidosis, hence the transition is easy from 
intestinal putrefaction to acidosis; to irritative skin diseases. 

CUTANEOUS LESIONS, — There are many cutaneous lesions to which we 
have no etiological clue. Most of them are due to circulatory disturb- 
ances. Note the cold and waxy fingers of the "bilious" crisis. The lag- 
gard gut is responsible for them. How far a cry is it from an acute claudi- 
cation to a chronic claudication and the establishment of Raynaud's dis- 
ease ? Circulatory anomalies underlie scleroderma. With or without the 
intervention of the pituitary gland, the infiltration may be ascribed to the 
same agency as Raynaud's disease. Of infinite variety are the germs of 
intestinal origin. Of infinite variety are the toxins there elaborated. How 
various, then, may be the manifestations in the skin or otherwise of 
their vicious versatility ! 

A normal individual gives no more heed to his intestinal canal than 
to respond to impulses for evacuation. There is no question of hygiene 
involved in such a case. The management of the bowel comes into debate 
only when it is manifestly unable to manage itself. We are all taught the 
detriment of chronic constipation. Hence, many of the results of chronic 
intestinal stasis are forestalled by the persistent efforts made to overcome 
this conspicuous symptom. This is part of the hygiene of the intestinal 
canal, and obviously a most important part. If the drainage from the 
whole tract can be effectually maintained, then, despite the narrowing at 
any point, constitutional disturbance will be avoided. This is the pivot 
on which revolves the whole discussion of intestinal stasis. If tliere is 
adequate drainage there is no stasis. If there is stasis there cannot be 



464 HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 

adequate drainage. Adventitious bands may exist without choking the 
channel to a serious degree, and passage is maintained for the excrementi- 
tious tide. This is a fortunate conjunction of circumstances. If the pres- 
sure is slightly increased and the channel is a little further contracted, 
there will be suiRcient slowing of the aforesaid tide to constitute a patho- 
logical state. There may be colicky pains and headache and perhaps 
vomiting; the well-known "bilious" attack. Cathartics usually prove suf- 
ficient correctives for the occasion. If sanely administered in advance, 
they may prevent much of the mischief. 

Considerations of Diet in Intestinal Stasis. — ^Here is a condition where 
Dr. A. Everett Austin's masterly chapter on "Diet in Intestinal Stasis" 
will apply with peculiar aptness. The regulation of the diet along the 
lines of reducing bulky detritus and avoiding undue flatulence will con- 
tribute markedly to the well-being of the patient. Attacks will certainly 
be less frequent and more readily controlled. Apertures patulous to the 
passage of fluids become occluded by undigested masses such as fruit skins, 
lettuce leaves, nuts and slow-melting fats. Apertures competent under 
ordinary conditions may be occluded by the ballooning of the adjacent 
bowel with gas. The constriction is increased by the impediment to the 
venous circulation and the swelling of the tissues. 

A happy termination of such a threatening episode is favored by total 
abstinence from food and the administration of brandy and ice as indi- 
cated for thirst and exhaustion. Situations fraught with such imminent 
possibilities of disaster, where sudden total obstruction may occur upon 
the slightest deviation from a rigid regimen, where the inclination to 
safety or peril is poised upon the most delicate balance, belong properly 
to the province of surgery. A section of drain-pipe in a house continually 
getting out of order through the inadequacy of its bore, would not be judi- 
ciously handled by seeing that only the thinnest fluids were allowed to 
enter it. The plumber would be called in and a new section substituted. 
So should it be with the plumbing of the human body. The intestines 
in addition to being organs of digestion are drain-pipes for ref\ise. In- 
adequacy of bore can be met only by enlarging the bore. Other methods 
of relief are temporary makeshifts trifling with the danger. 

Surgery does not always mean the knife. Orthopedic surgery often 
operates with bloodless manipulation. As already explained, the incom- 
petency of the canal in these intestinal conditions may be due to the sag- 
ging of prolapsed portions over new-formed bands. The raising of these 
portions may be followed by a straightening of the angular deformity and 
the enlarging of the opening. A properly fitting belt with spring support 



CHRONIC INTESTINAL STASIS 



465 




pressing on the abdomen below the umbilicus is sometimes effectual in 
cases of moderate ptosis. The simultaneous administration of mineral oil 
lubricates the points of possible resistance and eases the jam around the 
corners. 

In conjunction with these measures it is wise to limit the ingestion of 
animal foods in order to offset the likelihood of toxic absorption. On the 
other hand, we must be pru- 
dent in selecting alternative 
nutriment, as carbohydrates 
have a tendency to produce 
excessive flatulence. We are 
between the devil and the 
deep sea, and must steer our 
course with the greatest cir- 
cumspection. Some flatulence 
is necessary for the propul- 
sion of the intestinal con- 
tents ; excessive flatulence de- 
feats this object, but the 
decomposition of nitrogenous 
foods affords the elements that 
poison the system, whereas the 
decomposition of the carbohydrates results only in local distress and 
possible edematous obstruction. 

We must choose with an eye to all eventualities. There is little advan- 
tage in experimenting with lactic acid and the Bulgarian bacillus for the 
prevention of fermentation. There is no doubt of the tendency of these 
agents to act as indicated, but it is a faulty mode of procedure to seek 
simply to mitigate the symptoms while permitting the permanence of the 
ascertained and removable cause. After the removal of the cause, both 
these palliatives may be freely employed to assist the intestine in its re- 
adjustment to more normal conditions. 

The cases of real severity threatening life by the provoking of organic 
diseases, rendering existence a burden by the acuity of its sufferings, baf- 
fling ambition by persistent incapacity, these incontestably belong to the 
surgeon and can only be aggravated by futile attempts at medical manage- 
ment. The young woman with the muddy complexion, the offensive 
breath, the thinning hair, the loss of weight, the aching head, the colicky 
bowels, sometimes constipated, sometimes malodorously loose, will never 
react to the Bulgarian bacillus or any system of dietary. She is poisoned 



Fig. 11. — Band in which Stump of' Tube 
AND Ovary is Caught. (From Medical 
Record, Sept. 27, 1913.) 



166 HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 

from the never emptied cloaca within. Until proper means are taken to 
drain it effectually, nothing may be looked for but an augmentation of 
the evil consequences. The means described as proper are the cutting of 
constricting bands and the reestablishment of the patency of the drainage 
system. 

If this proves impossible by any other course than the removal of the 
large intestine and the discharge of the ileal effluent directly into the 
pelvic colon (the procedure known as "short circuiting" the bowel), this 
should be done without trepidation, since it sometimes effects a miracle 
approaching resurrection. Patients for whom life holds no allurement, 
who feel that death would be surcease of suffering, whose throbbing nerves 
are continually at odds' with their environment, who consent to exist only 
because "the Everlasting has fixed His canon against self-slaughter," are 
brought back to a world of sunshine and promise of efficiency and pur- 
pose. They have been practically snatched from the grave. They have 
been resurrected from a living death. This is not the rant of romance ; it 
is the experience of the least romantic of men, the hard-headed English sur- 
geon and his American disciples. Rhetoric cannot do the subject justice. 

The man 'of brilliant parts whose career is threatened with premature 
extinction because of the increasing effort required to concentrate his at- 
tention on his work; who is becoming dull and slow and unimaginative; 
whose body is subject to pains and paresthesias and overmastering weari- 
ness ; who has dyspepsia and neuralgia and depreciating vision ; who is 
listless and excitable by turns; whose rest is broken, urine high colored, 
and bowels constipated — had better resort to an abdominal surgeon with 
strong convictions on chronic intestinal stasis. Hygiene any less radical 
than that of the knife will bo of no avail. Cathartics of every description, 
clabbered milk, Bulgarian bacillus, bran bread, dieting, exercise, mas- 
sage, will make no appreciable impression upon the progress of events. 
It is likely that if he has not developed cancer, or tuberculosis, or chronic 
nephritis, operation — the highest form of hygiene under the circumstances, 
since it does at once and completely what other methods slowly and halt- 
ingly attempt — operation will clear his system of the intoxication due to 
defective drainage. When you take the load off a spring it resumes its 
elasticity and power. When you rid the blood of its taint, it races to re- 
trieve the mischief of which it was the carrier. 

Some diseases of the skin create a therapeutic dilemma. We are per- 
fectly aware of their putrefactive origin. We locate the putrefaction with 
admirable precision. Then we essay every mode of elimination and dis- 
infection with which we are acquainted. We find out what the patient 



CHRONIC INTESTINAL STASIS 467 

likes to eat and stop it. We diet along the best approved scientific lines, 
and the disease persists in apparent indifference to onr ministrations. 
What are we to do? We are progressive practitioners and anxious to 
give the patient the benefit of the most advanced methods. Shall we open 
the abdomen for acne ? for eczema ? for pruritus ? What a tremendous dis- 
proportion between a trivial affection and a dangerous remedy ! At first 
glance this stricture would seem entirely justified, but go a bit deeper and 
ask if acne is always a trivial affection ? Are there no circumstances 
under which it rises to the dignity of a serious disease ? Perhaps it never 
threatens life, but it does threaten the things that make life valuable; it 
threatens ambition, happiness and success. On the face of a sensitive 
woman, it is an almost unbearable disfigurement. It embarrasses, shames 
and tortures her ; it sends her shrinking from assemblages where she might 
otherwise shine; it debars her often from profitable employment; it de- 
prives her of love and marital happiness. It is a conspicuously nasty and 
repellent affliction. 

We know the role played by constipation in its evolution. The acne 
bacillus enters little into our therapeutic calculations. We actually ignore 
it in striving to overcome the obstinacy of the intestine. We realize that 
no vaccine can wipe out the lesions if the body is not sluiced clear of its 
offal. If we can achieve satisfactory elimination at the anus we are far 
forward on the road to a favorable resvilt. The bacillus, genuine, legiti- 
mate and trustworthy, is nevertheless incapable of fruitful insemination 
without the existence of a responsive soil. If the skin is defended by an 
uncontaminated circulation, the bacilli may rage about in ceaseless as- 
saults, but they will never find a substantial foothold. Hence, in acne, 
hygiene is of more practical importance than vaccine. 

DIET IN ACNE.— A properly adjusted diet, properly activated bowels, 
properly graduated exercise, ought to be sufficient for the successful man- 
agement of the usual run of cases. If the bowels are obdurate and will 
not respond to vigorous urging, it behooves us to consider the likelihood 
of a mechanical obstacle and the existence of intestinal stasis. This con- 
firmed, what to do ? If the disadvantages of the eruption are great enough 
to constitute a serious menace to happiness or success, then the sugges- 
tion of operation does not violate our sense of proportion. It resolves 
itself into a consideration of relative values. Is a clear complexion worth 
to the patient the risks of laparotomy? Vanity need not be a factor in 
the decision. To pander to such a vice at such a price would be inde- 
fensible. But self-respect is another quality entirely and may be bound 
up with problems of a grave social or economic nature. If the acne is 



468 HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 

accompanied by other symptoms of stasis, it simply adds weight to the 
argument in favor of surgical intervention. 

TREATMENT IN ITCHING DERMATOSES.— The itching dermatoses fre- 
quently get beyond the pale of annoyance and into that of intolerable suf- 
fering and loss of health. Insomnia, anorexia, constant irritation and em- 
barrassment furnish material for eventual nervous breakdown. If on ex- 
posed situations the eruption brings upon the sufferer the additional tor- 
ment of popular suspicion and avoidance, such embarrassment is empha- 
sized to the limit of endurance. How far may distress of this kind be 
borne before invoking the aid of radical hygiene, the hygiene that cleans 
out with one move the objectionable conditions that might resist inter- 
minably the more conservative measures ? The answer lies in the com- 
parison of the suifering with the magnitude of the remedy. Everything 
is relative. "Laparotomy for eczema" might sound like the irresponsible 
proposal of an unbalanced mind, but "laparotomy for intolerable anguish" 
sounds perfectly coherent and rational. Yet the two may on occasion be 
interchangeable expressions. 

We have developed the question of intestinal hygiene from the broad 
standpoint of securing results in specified conditions by the most effectual 
means, rather than from the narrower standpoint of dieting and coaxing 
and coddling a recalcitrant organ. AVe have intimated that the use of the 
knife is the most hygienic procedure possible under certain circumstances. 
Its work is rapid, complete and permanent. It drains or cuts out the 
offending cesspool. It restores the relations of the various sections, or 
removes what cannot be improved. 

If the large intestine is so out of plumb that it cannot be retained in 
the drainage scheme, it may be fearlessly set aside and the ileum inserted 
into the pelvic colon. Less sweeping measures than this are ordinarily 
indicated. The release of encompassed gut is the object of the operation. 
The least mutilation consistent with its proper performance is the rule 
to be adhered to. If the kinks can be straightened out by the cutting of 
constricting bands and the tide set fairly in the direction of the anus, the 
pathological situation has been relieved and all the symptoms dependent 
thereon should speedily disappear. 

Repetition serves to inculcate more forcibly the truth of any proposi- 
tion. We shall therefore venture to reiterate the sometimes forgotten fact 
that orthopedic surgery is bloodless on occasion, that corrective achieve- 
ments are possible without the intervention of the knife; thus a case of 
moderate ptosis may be materially relieved by the abdominal bandage 
below the umbilicus and the administration of mineral oil. 



CHRONIC INTESTINAL STASIS 469 

The limitation of nitrogenized food will add to the security of the 
patient. The omission of foods with bulky residue tending to aggravate 
the ptosis and also to constrict barely adequate openings will contribute 
largely to tlie same end. 

Hygiene of the Intestinal Canal — The great demand to-day is not for 
the cure, but the prevention of disease. Scientific observation is directed 
to the discovery of the causes of the graver maladies with the view of 
eliminating them, so with regard to intestinal stasis, the greater art would 
be in preventing its occurrence. To do this we must hark back to infancy 
and regulate the intestinal hygiene along enlightened lines. The baby 
must be fed and not overfed. That is imperative. ]\Iost infants are glut- 
tons who will gorge themselves far beyond their ability to assimilate. 
This excess must be controlled ; after nursing they should not be dandled 
or even set upright. They must be laid down and let alone. Constipa- 
tion should be combated without cessation. Flatulence and colic distend 
the delicate viscera and stretch the feeble attachments. Improper ali- 
ment such as "a little bit of everything off the table," and most of the 
baby foods on the market contribute to this occurrence. A diet on which 
the baby thrives with no colicky interludes and with perfect evacuations 
will minimize the chances of faulty structural change. 

As childhood advances, sports beyond the strength of boys, and tight- 
fitting apparel for girls should be interdicted ; especially should boys be 
warned against the detrimental effect of blows in the abdomen. The fool- 
ish desire for a pretty figure denied by nature and induced by art, has 
been the cause of many an operation for stasis. This will arouse unani- 
mous disapproval among the devotees of fashion, but it is nevertheless the 
surest fact in connection with the etiology. Patients who are convalescing 
from prostrating illnesses are prone to the development of enteroptosis 
because of the weakening of the visceral supports. Obesity interlarding 
the viscera with inert masses of functionless fat, and coincidentally reduc- 
ing the muscular tone of the abdominal and intestinal walls, creates ideal 
conditions for the production of stasis. Gluttony overtaxes the propulsive 
powers of the overloaded intestine, and ptosis is a natural consequence. 

Hygiene of the intestinal canal then practically resolves itself into the 
prevention of chronic intestinal stasis and the removal of this abnormality 
after its unfortunate development. Transient disturbances may demand 
attention, such as the acute diarrhea from over-ripe fruit or the jamming 
of the rectum with undigested casein. Tubercular diarrhea may be cited 
as an episode in the course of a fatal disease and requires medicinal treat- 
ment. The diarrhea of typhoid fever is an incident calling for alteration 

130 



470 HYGIENE OF THE INTESTINES 

in the feeding. These are not included in the broad consideration of hy- 
giene of the intestinal canal. 

The latter has to do with conditions that will not pass away with time 
or with the cessation of an acute process. They are deep-rooted in the 
mechanism of fecal drainage. They are structural defects whose evils 
may be palliated in favorable cases by careful scrutiny of the nutritive 
intake and vigorous enforcement of a corresponding output. 

Palliation exhausts the possibilities of hygiene in the usual sense. 
But in the wider sense of the utilization of every means for the restoration 
of the normal function of the part, the surgeon with his knife is as much 
a hygienist as the physician with his computed calories and mineral oil. 
The plumber who takes out a length of occluded pipe is as much an agent 
of sanitary science as the housewife who takes pains to prevent its occlu- 
sion. The surgeon who repairs our human plumbing is the most com- 
manding factor in the hygiene of the intestinal canal. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Bainbridge, William Seaman. The Significance of Intra-abdominal 
Bands, Folds and Veils, Boston M. & S. J., Feb. 19, 1914. 

. Chronic Intestinal Stasis, Am. J. Obst., 1916, vol. Ixxiii, 

No. 2. 

. Oration on Surgery before the Annual Meeting of the Med- 
ical Association of Alabama, April 20 to 24, 1915. 

. Chronic Intestinal Stasis, Fluoroscopic and X-Ray Diagnosis 

in the Light of the Operative Findings, J. Mich, S. M. Soc., 
March, 1915. 

. Some Practical Points on Human Plumbing, Internat. J. 

Surg., November, 1916. 

Jordan, Alfred C. Radiography in Intestinal Stasis, Proc. Roy. Soc. 
Med., vol. V, 1911. 

Lane, Sir Akbuthnot. Proc. Roy. Soc. Med., vol. iv, March, 1913. 



CHAPTER XV 

PHYSIOLOGICAL REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

IN HEALTH 

William C. Hollopeteb, A.M., M.D., LL.D. 



Breast Feeding: Relative Frequency of Breast Feeding; Microorganisms 
in Breast Milk; Colostrum; Quantity of Breast Milk; Constituents 
of Breast Milk; Galactagogues ; Necessity for Intelligent Mothers; 
Nursing; Consideration of Breast Milk; Mixed Feeding; Contra-Indi- 
cations to Breast Feeding. 

Artificial Feeding of Infants; Certified Milk; Composition of Cow's Milk; 
Condensed Milk; Buttermilk; Peptonized Milk; Sterilized Milk; Pas- 
teurized Milk; Proprietary or Patent Foods; Home Modification or 
Adaptation of Milk; Clinical Application of Artificial Feeding; Home 
Modification of Cow's Milk. 

Summary of Rules to be Observed in Artificial Feeding. 



BREAST FEEDING 

Breast feeding has been regarded by many writers on pediatrics as 
a lost art. Fortunate indeed is the young mother who can supply her 
child with a full amount of well-balanced nutritious food. The high phys- 
ical and mental tension forced upon most of us to-day calls for an evenly 
poised nervous mechanism, and as a result, we find many who fall below 
this standard. Among the well-to-do it was, until a few years ago, the 
exception that the young mother could acceptably nurse her child wholly 
for six months. 

Ten to fifteen years ago, fully 75 per cent of the young mothers were 
unable to nurse their offspring, but now, thanks to a growing spirit of 
maternal pride, associated with sounder physiological knowledge and the 
increasing tendency towards outdoor education, this difference is passing 
away and to-day we see more mothers proud and willing to nurse their 
offspring. The young mother of to-day is better equipped physically and 

471 



472 KEQUIKEMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

mentally to nurse her offspring than was her sister of twenty years ago. 
This is due to the fact that she has had a better all-around education, is 
a better type of animal — more vigorous by reason of outdoor life — than 
the woman of two decades ago. Still, we have too many sentimental young 
mothers who will not, or can not, nurse their offspring, due probably, in 
part, to faulty parental training. On the other hand, it is all wrong to 
accuse the young mother of inability to nurse her child without careful 
study of existing conditions. A child may be of low vitality with sensi- 
tive digestive powers and will feel the slightest abnormality in the 
mother's milk. And all mothers' milk at first may lack the proper pro- 
portion of food elements due to fear of pain and general discomfort of 
the parturient act. In many cases, this enfeebled digestive power in the 
child, associated with slight abnormality in the maternal supply, is the 
cause of the nursing being discontinued. 

Many mothers do not secrete the requisite supply of milk until two 
or three weeks after confinement. This variation of supply should be 
recognized both by the physician and mother and carefully studied before 
any radical changes are suggested. Frequently we have found a high 
fat, sugar or protein content which corrected itself within a few weeks. 
This condition ordinarily warrants a discontinuance of nursing of a feeble 
infant, while in a vigorous infant it would be a matter of small moment. 

While we have just cause to rejoice in the increasing number of nurs- 
ing mothers by reason of better physique and more general knowledge, 
iue in part to the increasing number of young women who play golf, ride 
horseback, or play tennis, and the progressive use of the automobile, we 
still have too many of the nervous type — the neurotic mother — in spite of 
outdoor exercise. The neurotic mother is the stumbling block to the pedia- 
trician's success — she makes a poor nurse, her milk constantly varies in 
compositiou, and she cannot be depended upon to produce regularly. The 
neurotic mother has been the means, however, of the great advance in 
careful feeding, even if she is responsible for so many delicate children. 
At the present day, the decline of neurasthenic mothers is strongly in 
evidence; they are less numerous, not popular, and will further decrease 
in the next ten years, because the great outdoors has lately become the 
fashion. 

Relative Frequency of Breast Feeding. — The relative frequency of breast 
feeding varies with different countries. In Japan, all mothers nurse their 
offspring. Among the Eskimos, artificial feeding is unknown. At the 
Woman's Dispensary in Munich, an investigation revealed the fact that 
only 3.6 per cent of women examined nursed their offspring longer 



BREAST FEEDING «73 

than three months. Davis(l), studying this question in the city of Boston, 
in 1911, found that 68 per cent of babies between the ages of two weeks 
and one year were breast-fed, while in the city of New York the estimates 
of the Board of Health (2) record that 85 per cent of the infants in New 
York City are breast-fed. Koplik(3) investigated 1,007 infants in pri- 
vate practice in the city of New York and found only 10 per cent exclu- 
sively breast-fed, while 30 per cent were exclusively bottle-fed, 60 per cent 
breast- and bottle-fed, and 40 per cent were weaned before the fourth 
month. 

Dr. Eric Pritchard(4) of London, through "mothercraft societies" 
first instituted at the Marylebone Street Hospital, has started an edu- 
cational propaganda of enlightenment on the subject of infant feeding 
that is spreading throughout the British Isles and beyond like a fierce and 
living contagion. Since the inception of these infant consultations, or 
schools for mothers, the death rate has fallen from 155 per 1,000 births 
to 95 per 1,000, and in the city of London to 91. In Berlin(5), where 
infant feeding is under government control, reports show that from 1900 
to 1904 only 9 per cent of infantile deaths occurred in breast-fed children. 

The Health Department of the city of New York concludes from the 
statistics gathered by the Commissioner of Health that fully 85 per cent 
of the infant mortality occurred in infants artificially fed (6). In the 
city of Boston, in 1911, the mortality of infants over two weeks old 
reached 74 per cent in the artificially fed, and Davis(7) concludes that 
the bottle-fed is six times as likely to die as the breast-fed infant. Luling 
of Paris(8), in a study of 13,952 children born in Baudelocque's Clinic, 
reports a mortality of 14 per cent in breast-fed babies, and 31 per cent in 
babies who were bottle-fed by their own mothers, and 50 per cent in babies 
who were bottle-fed by strangers. 

In the city of Liverpool, Armstrong(9) reports in a study of 1,000 
infants in 1903, that of the breast-fed babies 8.4 per cent died in the first 
year against a mortality of 22.8 per cent among the artificially fed. The 
Health Department of the city of New York investigated the cause of 
diarrheal disorders occurring in 1908 and found that only 9.0 per cent 
had been previously breast-fed. 

"As a twig is bent, so the tree is inclined," applies with especial em- 
phasis to the nutrition of the young child. Success in infant feeding 
demands the careful observance of little details ; it is not possible to feed 
carefully for one or more weeks and then grow careless for even a few 
days, for by so doing, we will either fail to gain that daily advance in 
development which is so essential in infancy, or possibly even precipitate 



474 REQUIREMENTS OF IKFANT FEEDING 

an acute illness. The young mother left to her own devices will make 
changes 'in diet not warranted by the child's condition, but largely at the 
suggestion of poorly informed friends. 

This fact is well illustrated by the comparison of private cases with 
dispensary cases; fully forty per cent of the out-patient dispensary cases 
are below the average in weight and development, in contra-distinction 
to the private cases, less than ten per cent of whom fall"' below this aver- 
age. These dispensary children are the offspring of day laborers, me- 
chanics, waiters, and other small wage earners; they are fed coiTectly 
at times, and again incorrectly, not because of poverty, but because their 
mothers do not know the very important principle of regularity; neither 
do they understand the value of food nor the necessity for giving it at 
regular specified intervals. The children are not hungry; they are fed 
to satisfy the appetite, and not to nourish the body. To feed their chil- 
dren to encourage a definite purpose — the proper physical development — 
has never entered their minds. It is for this reason that breast feeding 
must be vigorously encouraged and rigidly supervised ; otherwise we will 
soon be a race of physical defectives. 

Microorganisms in Breast Milk The breast-fed infant receives its 

food direct from nature's fountain, and, because it comes direct, it is re- 
garded as sterile. The truth is, however, that organisms from the breast 
gland itself get into the milk (10). Careful investigation shows that the 
milk of healthy women, whose breasts are free from pathologic condi- 
tions, contains microorganisms. In the majority of instances, the staphyl- 
ococcus aureus is found. It is believed that the bacteria enter the breast 
from the outside. Milk carefully drawn is usually found sterile. This 
question of sterile human milk remains to be settled, but for all practical 
purposes we, as pediatricians, feel that breast milk is sterile. Syphilis has 
been induced in rabbits by inoculating them with milk from a syphilitic 
woman, although the woman's milk was sterile and on examination no 
spirocha3t8e pallidse were found (11). 

Typhoid bacilli were found by Lawrence in the milk of a woman suf- 
fering from typhoid fever (12). Bacteria, unless present in unusual num- 
bers, ordinarily produce no ill effects in breast-fed children, because the 
germs found in human milk have no pathological significance for a healthy 
infant. It has been shown, however, that this is not the fact in infants 
with an injured digestion. Moro has recently ascribed to the staphylo- 
cocci in human milk an etiologic factor in the dyspeptic conditions of 
breast-fed infants (13). 

The taste and appearance of human milk is practically the same as 



BREAST FEEDING 



475 



that of cow's milk. Human milk has no odor, and tastes sweeter than 
cow's milk; it may look paler or bluish. When cool, small white flakes 
cling to the side of the vessel ; these disappear when the milk is warmed. 

The microscopic appearance of human milk reveals it as a permanent 
emulsion containing many fat droplets. It also contains a few leukocytes 
and epithelial cells. 

Colostrum — The milk excreted during the first few days postpartum 
and known as colostrum, differs materially from that after lactation is 
fully established. Colostrum is as sweet as milk; of a deep lemon yellow 
tint — due to a coloring matter contained in the fat drops. The percentage 
of cholesterin and lecithin is greater than in milk. The fat of colostrum 
contains less of the volatile fatty acids than does normal milk. The spe- 
cific gravity of colostrum ranges from 1.028 to 1.072, the average being 
about 1.040. 

Konig gives the following analysis as an average composition of colos- 
trum: water, 86.4; nitrogenous substances, 3,07; fat, 3.34; lactose, 5.27; 
salts, 0.40. We give below a table from Czerny and Keller,^ graphically 
showing the composition of colostrum according to various investigators : 

COMPOSITION OF COLOSTRUM 





Day 


Fat 


Lactose 


Protein 


Nitrogen 


Ash 


Solids 


Author 


postpartum 


% 


% 


% 


% 


% 


% 


Pfeiflfer 


1 


2.59 


2.76 


9.75 




0.408 




Pfeiffer 


2 


2.17 


3.50 


7.45 




0.340 




Adriance.. . . 


2 


3.77 


5.39 


3.31 




0.27 


12.48 


Camerer and 


(26-51 
156-61 


4.08 


4.09 




0.928 


0.48 


16.04 


Saldner . . 


3.92 


5.48 




0.508 


0.41 


14.12 


Camerer and 


(26-48 
[48-69 


1.67 


5.20 




.336 


.36 


10.32 


Saldner. . . 


2.02 


5.08 




.226 


.40 


10.12 



Pfeiffer after repeated examinations concludes that the nitrogenous 
substances in human milk ordinarily range as follows: first day, 8.6 per 
cent; third day to tenth, 3.4 per cent; at end of second week, 2.28 per 
cent; in the second month, 1.84 per cent; in the seventh month, 1.52 per 
cent. The percentage of sugar increases in human milk while the protein 
decreases. The mineral content of colostrum and of breast milk after 
lactation is established is essentially different. 



1 Quoted by Morse and Talbot, "Diseases of Nutrition and Infant Feeding," p. 94, 
pub. by the Macmillan Company, 



476 



KEQUIKEMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 



Specific gravity is usually given as 1.030-1.032. It may fall as low 
as 1.020 or go as high as 1.036(14). 

The reaction of human milk is amphoteric. It is acid to phenolphtha- 
lein, and alkaline to litmus. The reason for the double reaction is the fact 
that human milk contains both mono- and diphosphates. The former are 
weakly acid, while the latter react as a base. 

Quantity of Breast Milk. — The amount of human milk secreted by a 
healthy mother greatly depends on the demands of the child. The size, 
weight and vigor of the infant will indicate the exact amount of milk 
extracted from the breast in each twenty-four hours. It is natural, there- 
fore, to conclude that a weak, immature child would not demand the same 
amount as a lusty, vigorous infant. What would be a normal quantity 
for one child would not be normal for another ; therefore averages are not 
of any special value. 

The exact amount of milk extracted at each nursing is obtained by 
weighing either mother or child before and after each nursing. Cra- 
mer (15) shows that multiparae secrete a third more than primiparsB.^ 

QUANTITY IN SECRETION OF MILK BY PRIMIPARA AND MULTIPARA 



Day 




TWENTY-FOUR-HoUR AMOUNT 


OF Milk in 


Grams 


Postpartum 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


Nine Babies Primipara — 
Wt. at Birth 3.290 
grams 


4 
6 


78 
129 


183 
238 


199 
324 


236 
344 


299 
324 


303 
361 


274 
365 


362 

384 


384 


Seven Babies Multipara 
— Wt. at Birth 3.348 
Grrams 


415 







The average daily quantity of milk secreted by healthy young mothers 
under normal conditions has been approximately determined as follows: 



Period of Lactation 


Approximate Quantity in Grams 




Ounces 


Grams 


At the end of 1st week 


10 to 16 

13 to 18 

14 to 24 
16 to 26 
20 to 34 
24 to 38 
30 to 40 


300 to 500 


At the end of 2nd week 


400 to 550 


During 3rd week 


430 to 720 


During 4th week 


500 to 800 


From 5th to 13th week 


600 to 1,030 
720 to 1,150 
900 to 1,220 


From 4th to 6th month 


From 6th to 9th month 





1 Quoted by Morse and Talbot, "Diseases of Nutrition and Infant Feeding." 



BREAST FEEDING 



477 



Czerny and Keller (16) give more details as to the amount of breast 
milk secreted by the average mother.^ They show that the activity of the 
maternal breast may be greatly increased if the mother nurses one or 
more babies, as is found in a wet-nurse. They refer to a wet-nurse whose 
amount of milk secreted in ten days increased from 720 grams when she 
nursed two infants, to 1,750 grams when she nursed five infants. 

AVERAGE DAILY AMOUNT OF MILK DRAWN BY A BABY 

(Czerny and Keller) 



Age 

in 

Weeks 


Average weight 

of breast-fed 

babies given in 

grams 


The calculated 
days — amt. of 
milk in grams 


Age 

in 

Weeks 


Average weight 

of breast-fed 

babies given in 

grams 


The calculated 
days — amt. of 
milk in grams 


1 


3.410 


291 


14 


5.745 


870 


2 


3.550 


549 


15 


5.950 


878 


3 


3.690 


590 


16 


6.150 


893 


4 


3.980 


652 


17 


6.350 


902 


5 


4.115 


687 


18 


6.405 


911 


6 


4.260 


736 


19 


6.570 


928 


7 


4.495 


785 


20 


6.740 


947 


8 


4.685 


804 


21 


6.885 


956 


9 


4.915 


815 


22 


7.000 


958 


10 


5.055 


800 


23 


7.150 


970 


11 


5.285 


808 


24 


7.285 


980 


12 


5.455 


828 


25 


7.405 


990 


13 


5.615 


852 


26 


7.500 


1,000 



Constituents of Breast Milk — Coagulation has been more carefully 
studied by means of the ultramicroscope. The essential differences in the 
coagulation of human and cow's milk are as follows (17) : The casein 
of human milk is precipitated with greater difficulty with acids or salts 
and it does not coagulate uniformly after the addition of rennet, while 
the clot that forms does not appear in such large coarse masses as the 
casein from cow's milk, hut is more loose, feathery and flocculent. 

ALBUMINOUS BODIES. — The albuminous bodies in human milk are 
classed under two groups: (a) casein, which is insoluble in water, and (&) 
lactalbumen and globulin, which are also insoluble in water. The separa- 
tion of these bodies in human milk is more difficult than in cow's milk, 
because of the difficulty in precipitating the casein. There is on this ac- 
count much opportunity for further investigations to add to our knowl- 
edge of the proteins of human milk. The figures which are most generally 
accepted are those of Schlossman(18), who found that about 41 per cent 
of the total nitrogen is in the form of casein. 

1 Quoted by Morse and Talbot, "Diseases of Nutrition and Infant Feeding." 



478 KEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

CASEiJf. — Casein is difficult to precipitate from hiiman milk. It re- 
quires a large amount of human milk to conduct an analysis, and this 
has retarded our knowledge of the subject. We know more about cow's 
casein than human casein. As casein is insoluble in water, we must add 
an alkali, such as sodium citrate. On adding acid to this alkaline solu- 
tion, the casein will again be precipitated. 

FAT. — The fat in human milk is in a very fine emulsion. When the 
number of drops are counted in a counting chamber, more will always 
be found in human milk than in cow's milk (19). The figures as to the 
percentage of fat and the total amount of fat in human milk vary accord- 
ing to the various investigators and the methods pursued. Engel's(20) 
monograph on human milk gives the most complete summary of the 
knowledge on this subject, and is quoted freely in this article. He says 
the percentage of fat is smallest at the beginning of nursing and largest 
at the end of nursing, the steepness of the curve depending on the total 
amount of milk taken at a nursing. When a small amount is taken, there 
is a sharp rise in the percentage of fat, and when a large amount of milk 
is taken, there is a more gradual rise. The percentage of fat in the first 
milk drawn varies between 1 and 3 per cent, and that in the last milk 
taken between 6 and 10 per cent. These figures may occasionally be even 
higher. In pathological conditione the extremes of the percentage of fat 
are 0.1 per cent(21) and 13.7 per cent(22). 

The average fat content of the milk of ten wet-nurses (German) ex- 
amined by Engel was 4.5 per cent, and of 119 women (Russian) exam- 
ined by Skvorlzov(23), 3 per cent. The amount of fat in the milk of the 
same women may vary from 25 to 100 per cent in the same day at differ- 
ent nursings. When the intervals of emptying the breasts are long, there 
is more milk and less fat. When all the milk of a woman is collected 
each day, the average daily percentage is constant. This is true even 
if the total amount of milk is considerably increased. 

LACTOSE. — ^Milk sugar is found only in the milk of mammals. It is 
essentially the same in the milk of woman, the cow, ass, rabbit, dog and 
horse(24). There is evidence which suggests strongly that lactose is 
formed from the dextrose in the blood (25). The quantity of lactose 
varies the least of all the elements of human milk. The amount of lactose 
in human milk is almost twice that in cow's milk, being on the average 
about 7 per cent. The lowest percentage which has been found is 
4.22(26), and the highest 10.9 per cent(27). A few instances have been 
recorded in which the addition of sugar to the diet of the mother has 



BREAST FEEDING 479 

increased the amount of sugar in the milk. This, however, is by no means 
the nile(28). 

FERMENTS (ENZYMES).— Many pediatric writers place much impor- 
tance on the ferments or enzymes of milk, especially in the discussions as 
to whether raw or boiled milk is the more digestible for infants, and in 
3onnection with the diseases of metabolism, such as scorbutus and rachi- 
tis. The study of the ferments is open to error because of the presence 
of bacteria in milk. It is almost impossible to obtain a truly sterile sam- 
ple of milk or to keep that milk sterile for any length of time. The use 
of toluol or chloroform to keep the milk sterile may modify or destroy the 
enzymes, while sterilization by heat always destroys them. As the action 
of bacteria may cause all the phenomena produced by the ferments in 
milk, the presence of bacteria must always be excluded. 

Galactagogues. — In many nursing mothers who do not secrete sufficient 
milk to ensure the gradual physiological growth of the child, it becomes 
of practical importance to know if we possess means of any value to 
stimulate the lacteal secretion. Hence a few words on the value of galac- 
tagogues may be instructive. Schafer and MacKenzie(29) found that 
the posterior lobe of the pituitary body of the ox and the corpus luteum 
of sheep both act as galactagogues when injected into cats and dogs. 
Hammond (30) found that the injection of pituitary extract into lactating 
goats increased the amount of milk for twenty-four hours. However, the 
amount secreted during the next twenty-four hours decreased below the 
normal, so the average of the two days was the normal amount, 
Gavin (31) did not find that the pituitary extract affected the quantity of 
milk in cows. 

MacKenzie and others (32) believe that the mammary gland can be 
stimulated by the administration of the posterior lobe of the pituitary 
body, the pineal body, and the corpus luteum. The action of the former 
is supposed to be the most powerful. Inhibitory substances are said by 
some observers to be produced by the fetus, placenta, spleen, pancreas, 
adrenals and thyroid. Aschner and Grigori(33), on the other hand, found 
that the pulp of placenta or its watery extracts caused a true secretion of 
milk in virgin animals and that the body which causes this secretion is de- 
stroyed by alcohol and heat. Basch(34) reports that substances present 
in the placenta when injected into animals will bring back the secretion 
of milk after it has stopped. 

Wolf (35) injected milk into nursing women and found that there was 
an increase in the amount of milk secreted. Chatin and Rendu (36) re- 
peated Wolf's work with eight women, giving thirteen injections of milk 



480 EEQUIKEMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

with the result that in eight instances the curve of milk secretion re- 
mained stationary or became slightly lowered. In the five remaining 
instances there was a slight increase in the amount of milk secreted after 
the injections of milk. This increase was, however, always in association 
with other factors, such as a change in the number of nursings, or a 
greater demand on the part of the infant. They believe that the latter 
was the cause of the increase and not the former (37). 

There is much evidence to show that substances secreted in the ovary 
cause the growth of the breast gland at puberty. Cramer (38) believes 
that it has no influence on the hyperplasia of pregnancy, while Basch(39), 
on the other hand, attributes the increase in size of the breast glands to a 
secretion in the ovary. The blood of a pregnant animal injected into a 
lactating animal has no influence on the secretion of milk (40). Engel 
after considerable investigation concludes that there are no artificial 
means of increasing the secretion of milk. 

Herbert Spencer has said, "The first requisite for success in life is 
to be a good animal" ; and to be a country or nation of good animals is 
the first essential of national prosperity. To approach this essential or 
national prosperity in the right direction is the establishing of training 
schools for teachers and a department of dietetics and food economics in 
the various cities. This has been accomplished in many of our larger 
towns and with wonderful success. The students are taught food values, 
food preparation, the way to provide the most nutritious food in its most 
attractive form for a given sum of money. 

Necessity for Intelligent Mothers — Of the hundreds of teachers sent 
out from their dietetic departments of instruction every year to assume 
responsibility over children in all parts of the country, each and every 
one has learned something of dietetics and food values and will impart 
this knowledge and point out the great importance of correct feeding. 
The teachers will impress on the growing child the value of good food, 
without which the very best type of adult possible cannot be realized. 
More members of our profession should be interested in the support of 
dietetics and more departments of the same be firmly established m every 
high school for girls throughout our land. This may not seem to apply 
especially to maternal nursing, but I have not forgotten its application. 
The food and hygiene of the growing girl have the closest bearing upon 
her future life, and when she is called upon to perform her most impor- 
tant duty, motherhood, she certainly has the right and privilege to receive 
during her girlhood proper instructions, proper food, and normal devel- 
opment This right has been too long denied the girl. 



BREAST FEEDIi^G 481 

Preparedness seems to be the watchword of our nation in every de- 
partment of industry, since we have been watching the holocaust in Eu- 
rope, yet I fear many young struggling physicians have not fulfilled this 
mission as thoroughly as their opportunities would permit. The family 
physician has the rare chance of moulding the family tree as no other 
individual can ; too frequently he limits his care to the ill ones alone. His 
function should be enlarged to include personal hygiene of the young. 
I feel that my work is not properly done when I neglect careful instruc- 
tion as to habits and feeding of the growing child or the prospective 
mother. Unfortunately, it is found in almost every instance, according 
to my observations, that errors in child-management are due to ignorance, 
so I feel that it should be a part of our professional duty to take the par- 
ents into our confidence and explain why we wish certain rules and direc- 
tions to be followed. In this way we avoid "bending the twig" and pro- 
duce a normal mother. The ideal mother is one who is mentally normal 
as well as physically normal ; otherwise the product will be uncertain and 
unbalanced. 

Breast milk is variable and uncertain because the function is variable. 
Yet breast milk is one of the most valuable substances — it is human life, 
and we must know its value. 

Nursing. — The nursing age is between twenty and forty; yet I have 
seen a girl of fifteen and a woman of fifty-five successfully nurse their 
offspring. I have seen the society girl succeed when the conditions all 
seemed to be against her ; nothing is impossible to well-directed effort. 
Mothers vary greatly in the duration of nursing ; some can nurse for two 
months, others five, seven or nine months. It is unusual for both mother 
and child to remain well after ten months of breast nursing. The best 
index of a nursing mother's success is her own child ; if it is content and 
shows the usual gain, the mother has succeeded. Kerley gives the follow- 
ing nursing axioms: 

A diet similar to what tlie mother was accustomed to before the advent of 
motherhood shoi;ld be taken. 

There should be one bowel evacuation daily. 

From three to four hours daily should be spent in the open air, fn exercise 
which does not fatigue. 

At least eight hours out of every twenty-four should be given to sleep. 

There should be absolute regularity in nursing. 

There should be no worry and no excitement. 

The mother should be temperate in all things. 

DIET DURING LACTATION.— The diet of a nursing mother should be 
nearly the same as the one she has been accustomed to have, proyided it 



482 EEQUIKEMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

has sufficient variety and is nutritious and digestible. I have found mothers 
attempting to nurse their children while following a restricted diet, omit- 
ting most vegetables, for fear of creating colic in the infants; this is 
frequently a mistake. A robust young mother who has been accustomed 
to indulge in a full, generous diet cannot supply her child on a restricted 
diet without one or the other suffering by so doing. The withdrawal of 
a number of vegetables from a nursing mother's diet can be made only 
on account of their indigestibility, and if she could digest them be- 
fore she was a mother, she should be allowed them during her nursing 
period. 

Nursing is a perfectly normal function, and every woman, with her 
own child, should be influenced to carry it out along natural lines; the 
only thought she should magnify is that two lives are to be provided for 
in the place of one ; therefore more food should be taken to gain this end 
successfully. The food in excess should be fluids, as milk in some form, 
soups and broths. The necessity of crowding food into the mother varies 
according to the age of the child. The first month, while the child is 
young, a restriction of all fluids may be found necessary, while in a few 
months it will be found expedient to feed the mother between meals. 
After the third month, in many cases I find the mother will take eight 
ounces of milk, or the same quantity of oatmeal gruel or cornmeal gruel 
between breakfast and dinner, the same in the mid-afternoon, and on 
retiring at night. 

It is due to Dr. Southworth's careful study that we have come to ap- 
preciate the value of cornmeal in the form of gruel or as cornmeal mush. 
I have found it of considerable value and insist upon its liberal ingestion 
by every nursing mother when her supply of milk seems to be diminish- 
ing. The forced feeding of nursing mothers is only limited by her power 
of digestion, and if any article seems to disagree, it is well to discontinue 
the same. 

BOWEL MOVERfENT.— The bowel movement is a part of the digestive 
function and should be most carefully watched. One free evacuation 
daily should be insisted upon. 

The treatment of constipation in nursing mothers — a type of indiges- 
tion-v-is surrounded with difficulties. The dietetic method offers us little 
aid, because it interferes with the milk production. Usually, cooked 
fruit and gruels serve to keep up peristalsis. Abdominal massage is of 
some value. It is my request that every nursing mother receive an enema 
before retiring if no evacuation has occurred during the day. If the pre- 



BREAST FEEDING 483 

ceding methods have not succeeded, I have found the following pill valu- 
able and I doubt that any harm has occurred to the child: 

Ex. Khannius Pursli gr. iii 

Ex. Belladonna gr. ^ 

Ex. Nux Vom gr. ^ 

One at night ; possibly another may be indicated at noon the following 
day, if no action has taken place. The pill is a very good tonic to the 
intestinal canal, a peristaltic persuader. 

REGULARITY OF NURSING.— Regularity of nursing is of vital impor- 
tance, for the child as well as the quality and quantity of the lacteal secre- 
tion. The breast that is emptied regularly contains a better quality as 
well as a larger quantity of milk. 

System and regularity are as important in milk production as is di- 
gestion. If the gradual growth of the child is in keeping with the age 
and weight, as proved by the happy child, I begin with a bottle of water 
night and morning, a very necessary part of the feeding. This I continue 
during the first year. I have found many infants cross and unhappy be- 
cause the mothers had neglected to give them water at regular intervals. 
Between the third and fourth month, I begin with one bottle feeding 
daily. This is very essential. In case of illness of the mother, or if she 
is called away from the child by an unexpected emergency, the child is 
provided for, and at the same time conditions are arranged for a very 
gradual change from the breast to the bottle. This can be accomplished 
within one year. 

DURATION OF WEANING.— The average duration of weaning from 
breast to bottle is about three months. I am generally influenced by the 
health and temperament of the mother in this matter ; commencing at the 
sixth month with two bottles daily, I add a bottle every month until the 
ninth or tenth month, when I have the child wholly fed by bottle. In 
addition to the bottle I commence at the third month to give orange juice 
daily. The juice of one-half of a large sweet orange is given daily 
throughout the year. By the time the child is six months old, I give in 
addition to the orange one-half ounce of beef juice daily. This I con- 
tinue also throughout the year, increasing in quantity if I find it de- 
sirable. 

It is usually regarded as physiological that the new-born child should 
lose at least one-half a pound before breast feeding is fully established. 
This is unnecessary if the nurse and physician are in accord in the care- 
ful management of the child. If one-half to one ounce tepid sugar water 



484 REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

(one per cent) be given every two hours from birth up to the time the 
milk supply is established, this loss does not take place. This method 
carefully carried out will not only guard against loss of weight, but will 
also anticipate the febrile state of the new-born, recognized as inanition 
fever. 

SUCCESSFUL NURSING. — The evidences of successful nursing are 
many and should always be looked for. The child should be quiet, con- 
tented, and sleep most of the time. The gain in weight should not be less 
than four ounces per week and frequently over eight ounces per week, 
which is nearer the standard gain than four ounces per week. Where the 
gain is less than four or remains at four ounces, I suspect something 
wrong with the nursing, possibly irregular nursing, but more probably 
the fault is in the supply. An analysis of the milk will give the answer. 
After nursing from ten to fifteen minutes, the child should fall asleep and 
remain asleep imtil the approach of the next period, when he is again 
ready for feeding. Regularity enforced on the child soon establishes reg- 
ularity in its demands, and the mother will soon govern herself accord- 
ingly. The stools under this carefully regulated feeding are from two to 
three per day, smooth, yellow, soft, and almost devoid of odor. 

UNSUCCESSFUL NURSING.— Evidence of imsuccessful nursing is too 
frequently accounted for on the grounds of some trifling cause, such as 
"colds," fatigiie, or defects in diet in mothers, while the real cause may 
be deficient lacteal secretion. Wlien the standard established for a normal 
well-nursed baby falters, it must be investigated and corrected in order 
to maintain good results. Wlien the maternal supply is defective, either 
as to quantity or quality, the child soon makes it known to the mother 
and physician by becoming troublesome, by crying long before the nursing 
period, or lingering imduly at the breast, endeavoring to extract its meal 
in thirty minutes that should satisfy it within half that length of time. 

The most prolific cause of failure in breast feeding is naturally a 
scanty breast supply, and this is influenced by many factors outside of 
the mother herself. The nearer the supply is to the nutritional standard, 
the more satisfactory will be the progress of growth and develojiment of 
the child. It should contain three to four per cent fat ; protein one to two 
per cent, and sugar six to seven per cent. Failure may be due to any 
marked deviation of any one of the above. It has been my experience 
that some babies will grow irritable and lose weight while the mother is 
producing milk in abundance, but containing eight per cent sugar. This 
is not, however, the usual order of things, as most babies have, a good 
tolerance for sugar. The same thing occurs when the fat is unduly de- 



BREAST FEEDING 485 

fective. In cases where we find greeu watery stools, the cause is most 
probably due to a high fat content; live or six per cent fat will always 
induce green watery bowel movements. In such cases, the milk should be 
examined; especially should this be done if the child shows effort in 
defecation or vomiting. 

Low fat content usually brings about constipation and defective nour- 
ishment. The protein of breast milk has been regarded as the most im- 
portant element to consider and the one requiring the most careful study, 
irregularities being sure to bring about some gastric or intestinal trouble. 
Increase of protein will cause colic and constipation. In such cases we 
will find curds, pain associated with gas, and frequently with fever, and 
occasionally vomiting. The mother may produce a normal amount of 
fat, sugar and protein, but not sufficient to satisfy the child's hunger. 
The child may require four or five ounces and the breast may only pro- 
duce half the quantity. The only trustworthy guide in this condition 
is to weigh the child before and after each nursing for at least twenty- 
four hours. One ounce of breast milk weighs nearly one ounce avoirdu- 
pois. This method gives us the quantity but not the quality. Mistakes 
in quantity are frequently made by faulty weighing. The child should 
be most carefully weighed in the same clothing, or, better, with as little 
clothing as possible, to insure accuracy. 

Consideration of Breast Milk. — The quality of the mother's milk is of 
vital moment. It should be determined at regular intervals, (This will be 
discussed later on.) It is interesting to observe that children gain after 
each meal from one ounce in weight up to eight or nine ounces, according 
to the age — thus a child under one week will gain from one to one and a 
half ounces per meal of fifteen minutes ; four to eight weeks old, a gain of 
two to three ounces ; sixteen to twenty-four weeks old, four to six ounces ; 
and nine to twelve months of age, eight to nine ounces. This is not an ab- 
solutely fixed quantity, nor do we find many mothers producing so large a 
quantity at the end of the year. When a child is unhappy, unsatisfied, and 
no other physical reasons to be found, I generally institute a milk analy- 
sis ; this is especially indicated when the weight is slowly gained or if it 
remains stationary. Weighing the baby once a week is the only true 
method of procedure. Ofttimes a child is unhappy from excess of good 
milk; usually it is taken too fast, when it is regurgitated or produces 
colic. It is more frequently tolerated for a long time. 

In the presence of dilated stomach, habitual vomiting (ofttimes re- 
garded as a healthy sign by mothers) and constipation, the child loses in 
weight and may be weaned from a good breast to the bottle. This unfor- 

131 



486 EEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

tunate result could be avoided if the physician were consulted early and 
proper feeding rules established. 

The rule in such cases is to weigh the baby before and after feeding, 
and have the milk carefully examined. A nursing infant may suffer 
from habitual indigestion, while its mother may have unusually good 
breast milk; here the child can be greatly benefited by shortening the 
time at the breast. Weighing the baby at intervals of three to five min- 
utes and recording the gain, reveals an intake of three to four ounces, 
which may represent the capacity of the child's stomach, the excess which 
the child obtains over this amount being the cause of the trouble. From 
a free full breast a vigorous nurser will take one ounce in one minute. 
Some infants completely fill the stomach within five miiuites, and will 
safely hold its contents, but they must not be handled after the meal, if 
we wish them to retain the food ; this rule is a personal equation. 

When we fear the child's "speed," we must adjust the environments 
accordingly. Mothers must be informed that their babies cannot nurse 
as long as they wish, or as often as they cry. Such habits encouraged 
early are certain to ruin the strongest digestion later in the child's life. 
Fretjuently a mother may have sufficient quantity of milk, the child 
thrives, may not vomit or show any signs of indigestion, yet not continue 
to put on weight. 

Only repeated examinations will finally show that the mother's milk 
lacks either fats or proteins. This may occur frequently and is best 
explained by finding the mother irregular in her own feeding, or person- 
ally neglectful in some other way. Strenuous personal hygiene on the 
mother's part may prevent the irregularity, and if the fats and proteins 
cannot be increased, the bottle must come to the rescue. 

This failure on the mother's part leads us to mention the signs of 
insufficient nursing, as revealed when the child lingers long at the breast, 
perhaps for thirty minutes or more, and cries or shows signs of discom- 
fort when removed. Within an hour the child cries and shows all the 
evidence of hunger. He will also demand frequent nursing during the 
night. If this condition continues, the child will not gain, but actually 
lose in weight. The remedy for insufficient milk must be given before 
the failure takes place, that is, every physical condition of the expectant 
mother must be carefully inquired into, examined and corrected before 
the baby comes, and after its arrival, every unfavorable condition must 
be carefully ascertained and removed. Emotional women are prone to 
irregularity in their milk supply, hence prospective mothers of this class 
should be most carefully watched. 



BREAST FEEDING 487 

LACK OF UNIFORMITY IN BREAST MILK.— We are frequently con- 
fronted with irregular or abnormal milk production in the nursing 
mother. JSTo mother has a uniform milk ; it varies from day to day, and 
from month to month, rich in fats and proteins at one month and less in 
another ; these variations do not affect the child unless they are continuous 
and most marked. When it is found that the milk is too strong in fats 
and proteins, or when the ratio is not maintained, it is possible, by care- 
ful dieting, to diminish the milk strength, or, if it is found necessary, 
to increase the fat or protein content. The richer milk is usually found 
in young mothers who are athletic and robust, who eat well and whose 
digestion is normal. In nursing mothers of a sedentary type, a daily 
bath and massage, with restriction of the rich food, cutting out red meats, 
or, at best, allowing but a small quantity daily, and the withdrawal of 
all forms of wines or alcohol, will accomplish much good. The mother 
should be directed to walk from two to three miles daily to bring her milk 
to the proper digestible condition for her infant. If the dieting and walk- 
ing fail to adjust the milk output, it has been my practice to order the 
child to have one ounce of boiled water containing a small quantity (one 
dram) of soda mint, immediately before each nursing. Ofttimes I find 
it well to give in the place of the boiled water the same quantity of barley 
water. 

Giving barley water, boiled water or lime water — one-half ounce to 
one ounce — is a frequent procedure in my practice, often leading to good 
results. This simple dietetic advice is too frequently neglected, and 
should be more generally known and practiced. This easy rule has been 
the means of saving many lives in my hands, for it has made breast feed- 
ing possible. 

DEFICIENCY IN PROTEINS AND FATS.— When the milk is deficient in 
fats and proteins, we must push a full diet of more concentrated food. 
In these cases I find Dr. Southworth's methods of feeding cornmeal mush 
or cornmeal gruel, to the mother, of value. This procedure is especially 
valuable, and readily available, when the patient is fond of corn prod- 
ucts, which so many patients dislike, so that we fail to gain good results 
because the mothers do not willingly partake of the corn in any form 
sufficiently to gain an increase in their milk. I have seen a number 
of mothers, however, who have been most decidedly benefited by this ad- 
dition to their dietary. In addition to the cornmeal gruel and mush, I 
urge the free taking of meat, fish, whole wheat bread, oatmeal, and plenty 
of milk in a variety of forms, junket, custard, etc., which will insure an 
increase of both fat and protein. The use of malt liquors in a moderate 



488 KEQUIKEMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

quantity, as porter sangaree, or brown stout, will increase the fat content 
of a mother's milk. However, after all, we are frequently disappointed 
in our very best efforts to improve the quantity or quality of breast milk. 

Mixed Feeding. — All breast-fed infants must be taught to take the 
bottle by the third month ; the bottle must be familiar to the child by this 
time, or we will fail in our efforts. It is absolutely necessary for success 
later in the first year. It may contain nothing but water, yet the bottle 
must be given early in life. Even with the best nursing breasts, I find 
it necessary to commence with a bottle of modified milk by the sixth 
month, sometimes waiting till the seventh or eighth month. 

By this time the vigor of the child demands more protein and the 
mother usually possesses less, so that the modified bottle is a welcomed 
necessity. From this time on, I increase the bottle by one per week until 
the tenth month, when the child is wholly weaned from the breast to the 
bottle. Few women can produce sufficient nourishment for a growing 
child after ten months, hence I find the best of mothers are willing to 
wean their child by this time. All children should be on the bottle from 
the tenth or at most the twelfth month, until they learn to chew food, 
that is, until they are two or three years old. Sucking is to the infant 
what chewing is to the adult, a necessary requisite to good digestion. I 
never deprive the infant of the bottle ; indeed many of my children have 
found comfort and food in this way until they are five and even six years 
old. 

All nursing infants, in addition to the first bottle at three months of 
age, can also be given one tablespoonful of orange juice per day, with 
or without water. At the sixth month, in addition to this orange juice, 
beef juice in the same quantity can be given. This is continued daily 
until weaning occurs. When a mother fails to give her infant two com- 
fortable feedings per day, it is time to wean the child, and further nurs- 
ing by the mother is forbidden. 

Contra-Indications to Breast Feeding. — A mother must not nurse her 
infant when she has a fever from any cause. She cannot nurse if she 
shows any manifestation of active tuberculosis. Few mothers will be 
found entirely free from tubercular implantation, yet so long as it is not 
active, we cannot deprive them of this important duty. If any form of 
glandular or joint infection should exist, we must prevent nursing. 

Syphilis and epilepsy also counterindicate maternal nursing. In ad- 
vanced nephritis or any malignant growth, the breast is withheld ; the 
same is also true in acute diseases, such as pneumonia and typhoid fever 
or diphtheria. 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 489 

ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 

Inasmuch as the milk of the cow is the most convenient and cheapest, 
it is usually selected as the food for the infant when the mother's breast 
fails to sustain it. Cow's milk should not he selected, however, until 
every effort on the part of the mother has been exliausted. The most 
important consideration in the selection of cow's milk for the infant is 
certainly its cleanliness. This factor, fortunately, has been thoroughly 
impressed on the public. In the country and small towns there is no 
difficulty in obtaining clean milk, provided the ordinary rules of stable 
hygiene and cleanliness on the part of milkers and handlers of the milk 
are observed. The personal attention of the physician must be directed 
to this side of the milk problem if he is to hope for success with his young 
charges. In large cities the milk question becomes more difficult, as the 
milk has to be carried long distances, pass through several hands, and the 
time is much longer between the milking and the time the child receives 
the milk. Clean raw cow's milk is the best food (next to the mother's 
breast) for the child. In recent years, the superiority of clean raw milk 
to any other artificial food is being more fully recognized by all pediatri- 
cians, so that a most strenuous effort has been made to obtain it in all 
our larger cities. Through the teaching of the late Dr. Rotch of Harvard, 
the Walker Gordon Laboratories became the pioneer for the use of clean 
raw milk. 

Certified Milk. — To the late Dr. Coit of New Jersey is due the per- 
fection of methods to produce certified milk as now furnished to the 
public in most of the larger cities. The education of the public along 
these lines for a pure clean milk has resulted in the establishing of model 
dairy farms near all cities, so that the transporting of the milk can be 
effected promptly. 

The rules that should prevail and must be recognized by the public 
are as follows: 

The cows must be kept clean and healthy, especially free from tuberculosis; 
the stables must be clean and sanitary, free from flies; the stable yards free from 
manure or stagnant water; the water supply for dairy purposes should be clean 
and pure; the food for the cows should be free from noxious weeds or distillery 
slops. The cows should be cleaned by daily grooming, and the milking should be 
done with clean hands, from clean udders into clean pails, thus using every effort 
to prevent the early contamination of the milk. The first flow of milk from the 
udder should be discarded as unsafe. After milking, the milk should be immedi- 
ately removed to a separate or adjoining building, strained and cooled, bottled 
and placed in a refrigerator, retained here until it is sent to the consumer. In 



490 



REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 



transporting the milk it should be kept cool and should reach the consumer with 
a bacterial content not above 10,000 to the c.c. 

If milk can be furnished to the home in the above condition, it is per- 
fectly safe to feed the infant in a raw state. In this way the vital prin- 
ciple of the milk is retained, and this is the ideal food, retaining the vita- 
mines, of which further mention will be made. 

COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF WOMAN'S AND COW'S MILK 



Constituents 


Average Woman 


Average Cow 


P*rotein 


1.50 
3.50 
7.00 
0.20 

87.80 


3.50 


Fats 


4.00 


Sugar 


4.50 


Salts 


0.75 


Water 


87.25 







There are decided differences in mother's and cow's milk which are 
not apparent. Mother's milk contains ferments which stimulate digestive 
secretions in the infant, while those of cow's milk stimulate tlie digestion 
in the calf, not the infant. 

COMPARATIVE COMPOSITION OF MILKS OF DIFFERENT ANIMALS 

(Voltz) (41) 



Milk 



Water 



Solids 



Fat 



Casein 



TotalN 



Sugar 



Ash 



Human 

Cow 

Buffalo 

Zebu (1 analysis). . . 

Llama (3 analyses) . 

Camel (7 analyses) . 

Goat 

Sheep 

Reindeer 

Mare 

Donkey 

Elephant 

Hippopotamus (1 
analysis) 

Rabbit (1 analysis) 

Guinea pig (1 an- 
alysis) 

Dog (8 analyses) . . . 

Cat 

Pig 

Blue whale 



87.58 
87.80 
82.30 
86.13 
86.55 
87.60 
86.30 
81.50 
67.70 
90.58 
90.12 
67.85 

90.43 
69.50 

41.11 
77.00 
81.64 
82.37 
50.47 



12.42 
12.20 
17.70 
13.87 
13.45 
12.40 
13.70 
18.50 
32.30 
9.42 
9.88 
32.15 

9.57 
30.50 

58.89 
23.00 
18.36 
17.63 
39.53 



5.38 
4.00 
7.00 

17.10 
1.14 
1.37 

19.57 

4.51 
10.45 

45.80 
9.26 
3.33 
6.44 

20.00 



0.80 
2.70 



3.00 

2.98 
3.60 
4.30 



0.79 



4.15 
3.11 



2.01 
3.40 
4.80 
3.03 
3.90 

"4.60 
5.60 
10.90 
2.50 
1.85 
3.09 



15.54 

11.19 
9.72 
9.53 
6.09 

12.42 



6.37 
4.70 
4.40 
5.34 
5.60 
3.26 
4.30 
5.00 
2.80 
5.87 
5.19 
8.84 



1.95 

1.33 
3.11 
4.91 
4.04 
5.63 



0.3 

0.7 

0.8 

0.7 

0.8 

0.7 

0.8 

0.9 

1.50 

0.36 

0.47 

0.65 



2.56 

0.57 
0.91 
0.59 
0.59 

1.48 



(42) 
(43) 
(43) 
(42) 
(42) 
(44) 
(43) 
(43) 
(45) 
(43) 
(43) 
(46) 



(42) 

(42) 
(42) 
(47) 
(46) 
(48) 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 



491 



Health boards of some cities, stimulated by our medical societies, now 
have chemists and bacteriologists whose duty it is to make frequent ex- 
aminations of the milk supply as it is delivered to the consumer. These 
examinations are for the determination of the bacterial contents of the 
milk, the amount of butter-fat, the relative percentage of its various in- 
gredients, the possible presence of chemical preservatives, or possibly 
any foreign matter. 

When a milk dealer continues to furnish his customers with this ideal 
standard, he is entitled to receive labels from the board of health contain- 
ing the words "Certified Milk." These labels, "certified milk," when 
placed on a bottle, are his guarantee to the consumer that the contained 
milk conforms in all respects to the standard laid down by the medical 
or health authorities. This "certified milk," which is sold in nearly all 
our cities, conforms to the following standard : 

Free from pathogenic bacteria, or a bacterial content not exceeding 10,000 to 
the c.c. ; freedom from dirt and all foreign organic matter; freedom from chemical 
preservatives; and, most important, a constant nutritional value with about four 
per cent of fat and a full average of protein and carbohydrates. 

With this medical supervision of our milk supply, we have a nearly 
certain food for children compelled to be fed artificially. This careful 
precaution necessarily demands an unusual outlay of money by every 
city, and as a result such milk must be sold at a price to warrant the 
dairyman to continue his high standard. The price of "certified milk" 
is therefore prohibitive to the very poor of our large cities. 

For this reason a second grade of milk is furnished in many of our 
cities by the same dairies and under the same supervision of milk inspec- 
tors known as "inspected milk," and it bears a label testifying to its rela- 
tive cleanliness. "Tested milk" difPers from "certified milk" only in 
the bacterial content. During the winter months the "tested milk" must 
not contain more than 60,000 bacteria to the c.c, and during the summer 
months not more than 100,000 to the c.c. In all other bacteriological and 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF COW'S MILK 



Cow's Milk 


Specific 
Gravity 


Water 


Casein 


Albumin 


Total 
protein 


Fat 


Lactose 


Ash 


Min 

Max 


1.026 
1.037 
1.031 


80.32 
90.32 

87.27 


1.79 
6.29 
3.03 


0.25 
1.44 
0.53 


2.07 
6.40 
3.20 


1.67 
6.47 
3.64 


2.11 
6.12 

4.88 


0.55 
1.21 


Aver 


0.71 



I 



492 



KEQUIKEMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 



chemical standards, it is of the same vahie as "certified milk" and sells 
a few cents cheaper by the quart. The chemical quantitative and quali- 
tative difference between human and cow's milk has already been empha- 
sized. The table on page 491 from Leach shows the composition of cow's 
milk. 

The following table shows how much the composition of the morning 
and evening milk may vary. These figures are the average from 29,707 
tests of milk made by Droop Richmond in England: 

VARYING COMPOSITION OF MORNING AND EVENING MILKS 



Milking 


Fat 
per cent 


Lactose 
per cent 


Protein 
per cent 


Ash 
per cent 


Solids 
per cent 


Morning 

Evening 


3.44 
3.90 


4.71 
4.69 


3.43 
3.39 


0.74 
0.73 


12.34 
12.71 



Composition of Cow's Milk — Cow's milk is never uniform in its com- 
position. It differs even in the same cow morning and night, winter and 
summer. {See table.) The composition of the milk of a single cow may 
differ considerably from that of an entire herd. It is for this reason that 
the milk of a herd of cows is to be preferred for general purposes to that 
of a single cow. However, when it comes to the recognition of tubercular 
infection, we can detect it in one diseased cow much sooner than in a herd. 
The composition of milk varies in different types of cows, some cows being 
better providers for human infants than others; but all cows have milk 
for calves, not for children. The Guernsey and Jersey cows furnish a 
milk richer in fat, frequently over five per cent. The Holstein breed fur- 
nishes a less perfect emulsion of fat. The Durham and Devon cows yield 
a good rich milk, and when properly cared for provide good safe food for 
the young infant. 

Cow's milk is an opaque emulsion of fat in solution. The vehicle is 
albuminous, containing lactose and mineral matter. The color is yellow- 
ish white. The odor is not strikingly characteristic, unless the cow has 
been feeding on rank weeds or garlic, or is suffering from disease. The 
specific gravity at 60° F. varies from 1,029 to 1,034, the difference de- 
pending on the composition of the milk. The reaction is amphoteric 
when the milk is strictly fresh. It becomes acid by exposure and the mul- 
tiplication of the lactic acid bacillus, and the acidity increases with age. 
The addition of preservatives increases the alkalinity. 



AKTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 493 

FAT.— The fat of cow's milk contains stearin, olein and palmitin, 
which are volatile and readily decomposed. When milk stands for a short 
time, the fat, being the lighter, comes to the surface and is known as 
cream. The fact that about four per cent of fat is found in human and 
cow's milk requires us to analyze the two forms of fat more closely. 
Cow's milk contains a greater percentage of volatile fatty acids, and a less 
percentage of oleic acid than human milk, and the fat in the former is in 
a coarser emulsion and separates more easily than in human milk. The 
difference in the composition of the fats of the two milks may, in part, 
explain the fact that the human infant can digest and assimilate four per 
cent of fat in woman's milk, and yet fail to digest two per cent of fat in 
cow's milk, and it may also explain why cow's milk, with its excess of 
volatile fatty acids, may predispose to acid intoxications in infancy, since 
these acids are readily converted by hydrolysis into acetic acid and acetone. 

PROTEINS.— The chief proteins of milk are casein and lactalbumen; 
lactoglobulin, lacto-protein and nuclein occur in smaller quantities. Whey 
protein contains all the proteins of milk, except the casein. In woman's 
milk, the whey protein exceeds the casein in the proportion of two to one, 
but in cow's milk the proportion is as one to six. Chemistry has not as 
yet established any difference between the whey proteins of cow's milk 
and woman's milk, but these two milks are entirely different in the quan- 
tities of casein and soluble albumins they contain. The difference most 
important to the clinician is the chemistry of the two caseins. This dif- 
ference is practical and concerns the manner of their reaction to the same 
ferments and reagents. 

In the stomach of the human infant, the calcium casein of cow's milk 
(the form in which casein exists in cow's milk) is readily precipitated 
by rennet, in the presence of a slight amount of acid, into a clot of calcium 
paracasein, and later, as the hydrochloric acid is secreted in larger quan- 
tities, into hydrochlorate of paracasein and calcium, the calcium being 
separated from the paracasein clot by the hydrochloric acid. This clot is 
larger and tougher than the clots which occur in the infant's stomach from 
the action of the same reagent on human milk. 

In human milk the paracasein clots and the hydrochlorate of para- 
casein clots are softer and lighter — more flocculent, as compared with 
those of cow's milk. In artificial feeding, casein is most frequently 
blamed for disturbing the child's digestion. To increase or diminish the 
percentage of casein content in the bottle of an infant was supposed to 
alter the digestive injury. This practice has been discovered a griev- 
ous mistake, as the casein is very rarely the cause of intestinal trouble. 



494 KEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

The most frequent types of food injury are due to the sugar or fat con- 
tent. 

Finkelstein and Meyer have demonstrated that intestinal indigestion 
may be improved, if not controlled, by increasing the casein content and 
diminishing the fat and sugar in the milk. The digestibility of the casein 
of cow's milk depends largely on the presence or absence of the condition 
of the child's stomach which causes its precipitation in small or large 
clots. Casein is very easily digested and assimilated if large clot forma- 
tion can be prevented. 

If an alkali be added to the cow's milk before it enters the stomach, 
such as sodiiim citrate, sodium bicarbonate, or even lime water, large clot 
formations may be avoided. Hydrochloric acid or lactic acid will also 
accomplish the same result. The alkali or the acid combines with the 
casein and breaks up large clot formations. This it does by interfering 
with the action of the rennet; rennet can only act in the presence of a 
slightly acid medium. 

The value of boiling milk, as is frequently necessary during hot 
weather, is clearly seen by this formation of small clots ; hence its double 
value by killing bacteria and rendering the milk more digestible. It may 
be necessary to reduce the fat in the milk temporarily, so as to prevent 
its entanglement in the meshes of the clot. The danger, therefore, in the 
high pcrcontago of casein feeding is that we may not be able to control the 
cause of clot formation. 

The human infant may digest the various food elements of cow's milk 
when they are held in the whey of human milk and may fail to digest 
them in the whey of cow's milk. Any food for the young infant that 
does not maintain the usual casein content is absolutely wrong. The 
casein of cow's milk contains 53 per cent of carbon, 16.65 per cent nitro- 
gen, 7.08 per cent of hydrogen, and 0.85 per cent of phosphorus. This 
composition of proteins with the large per cent of nitrogen content makes 
them actually necessary for all growth and all life. 

CARBOHYDRATES.— The carbohydrate content in cow's milk is 4 per 
cent; in human milk it is 7 per cent. Lactose is the only carbohydrate 
found in milk. The variation in quantity of this sugar from day to day 
and with the age of the infant is surprisingly small. Fats and proteins 
vary from day to day and according to the condition of the mother, but 
the sugar scarcely changes. Milk sugar in human milk is especially ad- 
justed to supply carbohydrate food to the young infant. It does not easily 
ferment and is quickly converted into dextrose in the intestines. German 
pediatricians, however, regard milk sugar as the most common cause of 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDIKG OF IKFANTS 495 

intestinal fermentation. It seems that milk sugar when held in the whey 
of cow's milk is less rapidly absorbed and more frequently augments fer- 
mentation than maltose or dextrin. The majority of normal infants can 
readily digest sugar. 

Sugar next to albumins is the most important food of the infant. 
Like the fats, sugar serves as a fuel for the production of heat, and sup- 
plies the food which furnishes energy to the growing cells. In their heat- 
forming capacity, carbohydrates are second to "the fats, but in their energy 
power they are most important. It is an interesting physiological fact 
that the oxygen contained in the carbohydrates is not only sufficient to 
oxidize their own hydrogen, but to aid materially in oxidizing the waste 
products of the fat and protein molecules as they are broken down in the 
body, thus preventing an auto-intoxication. This is a beautiful fact 
pressed home on us all as an illustration of the interdependence of the 
protein, fat and carbohydrate molecules in serving the nutritional de- 
mands of the body, and makes very plain the truth that we act wisely and 
according to nature's lead when we imitate nature in making an infant 
food by combining these food elements in proper proportions. 

Clinically the physician soon expects trouble when the food elements 
are not kept in their natural proportion ; thus an excess of carbohydrates, 
with other food elements, especially the fats, in normal proportions, may 
result in diarrhea, loss of weight, fever, and generally a catarrh of the 
digestive tube. An excess of carbohydrates with other food elements bo- 
low the normal may result in anemia, rickets and malnutrition. A severe 
food injury may arise by overtaxing the digestive capacity when we have 
a deficiency in carbohydrates with the other food elements in excess. 

INORGANIC CONTENTS.— The ordinary inorganic constituents of milk 
are calcium, sodium, potassium, magnesium, phosphorus and iron. All 
of the above, except iron, are present in both human and cow's milk in 
sufficient quantities to meet the nutritional demands of the growing in- 
fant. The hemoglobin contains iron as a very necessary constituent to 
the oxidation process which underlies body metabolism. The deficiency 
of iron in milk, which gradually increases as lactation proceeds, is made 
up in the first year of life from the iron found in the liver and other 
organs of the new-born infant. It is found that at birth there exists as 
much iron in proportion to body weight as in adults. The partial iron 
starvation which necessarily occurs on a milk diet is not, therefore, of 
material consequence during the first year of life. As the child grows 
older, the storehouse of iron becomes exhausted and it is necessary to 
supplement the milk diet by such iron-containing foods as fruit juices, 



496 



EEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 



eggs, purees of vegetables and broths ; otherwise anemia and malnutrition 
may result. 

It is true that the other inorganic constituents play a no less important 
role than iron in the body metabolism of the human infant. All those I 
have mentioned are found in such organic combination in human milk 
as to be readily assimilated in sufficient quantities to meet nutritional de- 
mands. A healthy infant can usually assimilate a sufficient quantity of 
the inorganic constituents of cow's milk. The fact that a smaller quantity 
by percentage of the salts of cow's milk is assimilated is ottset by the fact 
that they occur in larger quantities in cow's milk than in human milk. 

In certain pathological conditions, however, the failure of the human 
infant to assimilate the salts of cow's milk produces serious disorders of 
nutrition and frequently becomes a factor in the production of wasting 
or atrophy. The frequent practice of adding lime water, sodium bicarb, 
or sodium chlorid, or better, sodium citrate to cow's milk, not only pro- 
motes the digestion and absorption of casein, but also facilitates the ab- 
sorption of the mineral salts of the milk, this being especially truo of 
calcium. The following table is taken from various sources: 

PERCENTAGE OF SALTS IN COW'S MILK IN 100 PARTS OF ASH 





Bwnge 
(49) 


Abder- 

halden 

(50) 


Schloss 
(50) 


Soldner 
(51) 


Pelka 
(49) 


Richmond 

(52) 


K20 


22.14 
13.91 
20.05 
2.63 
0.04 
24.7.'i 
21.27 


22.40 

12.25 

21.07 

2.91 

24.10 
17.25 


24.74 

10.79 

21.35 

2.71 

29.54 
13.63 


24.96 
6.16 . 

22.25 
2.71 

32.27 
10.86 


23.75 
15.36 
20.37 

27.13 
14.67 


28.71 


Na,0 


6.67 


CaO 


20.27 


MeO 


2.80 


FejO, 


.40 


P,0s 


29.33 


(CD 


14.00 



One Liter of cow's 


milk contains in grams: 






Soldner (51) 


Schloss (50) 


K,0 


1.72-1.885 

0.51-0.465 

1.98-1.72 

0.20-0.205 

1.82-2.437 

9.98-0.82 


1.849 


Na,0 


0.861 


CaO 


1.650 


MeO 


0.215 


P,0j 


2.183 


CL 


1.091 



100 grams of the Ash of Cream contains in grams (53) : 



K,0. . 
Na,0. 
CaO.. 
MgO.. 
P,0». , 
CL. . 



25.97 
9.86 

20.54 
4.20 

30.23 

16.15 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 497 

It would be trifling for me to point out the value of mineral salts to 
the infant body; they are very essential for the proper balance, growth 
and functional activity of all its cellular elements. They enter very 
largely in the construction of the bony framework of the infant's growing 
body, and for symmetrical development larger quantities are required. 
They also maintain normal irritability of nerve and muscle elements; a 
lack of calcium or phosphorus in the growing infant will produce abnor- 
malities in the bony framework and will greatly exaggerate the irritabil- 
ity of nerve and muscle. 

The mineral salts and their combinations are a very essential part of 
the infant's food. They must be present in proper relative proportion, 
but also in such a form that they can be easily absorbed and appropriated. 
This absorption of mineral salts so essential to the proper growth of the 
young infant can only be accomplished during the first few months of life 
by the administration of milk as a medium which holds the nicely 
adjusted balance. Human milk is the ideal food for this purpose, and 
next to that is some adaptation of cow's milk to meet the same require- 
ments. Water is an important constituent of the food of an infant. 
About 68 per cent of the infant's body is composed of water, and about 
87 per cent of its natural food — milk — is water. 

This indicates the great importance water has in the physiological pro- 
cess necessary to maintain the health and life of the infant. An infant 
requires four or five times as much water in proportion to body weight as 
an adult. Water is the great solvent which brings into solution the food 
of the infant so as to present that food in such a form that it can be read- 
ily cared for by the digestive organs. It carries the digested food through 
the blood and lymph channels to every part of the body. This common 
carrier makes up about 78 per cent of the blood and 96 per cent of the 
lymph, and becomes the circulating medium of the body, carrying the 
important elements of the blood and lymph to every cell in the body and 
carrying away from the cells, to be excreted, the waste materials of retro- 
grade tissue metamorphosis. This excretion of body waste prevents auto^ 
intoxication and is effected by the elimination of the water carrying this 
waste through the kidneys, the intestines, the skin, and the lungs. This 
elimination is much more active during infancy, hence the supply must 
be constantly renewed. 

DIASTATIC FERMENT.— It is believed by many physiologists that there 
exists a diastatic ferment in human milk which transforms starch into 
maltose and dextrose. It has been demonstrated by a number of observers 
that it can be developed in cow's milk and goat's milk by feeding them on 



498 KEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

germinating barley. This would indicate that this ferment serves an 
important physiological purpose in the human infant, which is met in 
some other way in the young of the cow and the goat. The purpose 
served is perhaps to supplement the feeble digestive power for starch in 
the young human infant, and as the starch digestive capacity of the young 
of the cow and the goat is greater, it is not necessary to provide this fer- 
ment in their milk. 

VITAMINES IN COW'S MILK.— Long before we read of Casimir 
Funk(54) and his studies, we knew that whole clean milk is next to the 
mother's breast the very best food for the growing infant. We knew that 
the child is better nourished and happier on whole clean milk, that diges- 
tion is easier and development more regular tlian when the child receives 
boiled or sterilized milk. We knew whole milk is milk with the life in 
it, not boiled milk with the life boiled out of it. Funk tells us that vitam- 
ines or certain vital "accessory substances" exist in whole milk tliat serve 
to prjtect the child from deficiency diseases, such as beriberi, scorbutus, 
pellagra, and rickets. He thinks these diseases are due to the absence of 
certain vital substances in the milk which he calls "vitamines." He 
shows in his article that milk contains a considerable number of these 
antiscorbutic substances as well as substances which materially favor the 
growth of young infants. The vitamines are, in general, very sensitive to 
heat. Those in milk are relatively stabile. They are, however, partially 
destroyed by heating milk for a short time, and totally destroyed by long 
boiling as in sterilization. 

The development of scurvy in babies taking heated milk and the 
greater frequency of the disease when the food is boiled or sterilized than 
when it is pasteurized, may be explained by assuming that the vitamines 
are partially or wholly destroyed by heat, the destruction being more or 
less complete according to the degree and duration of the heating. It is 
true scurvy sometimes develops in babies taking raw milk or eyen in 
babies fed at the breast. This explanation of the development of scurvy 
on a diet of raw milk is that in such instances the milk is deficient in 
vitamines. 

In support of this explanation he brings forward evidence to show 
that the amount of vitamines in the milk varies with the amount of vitam- 
ines in the food of the cows. An example of the influence of the food of 
the cows upon the amount of vitamines in the milk, is the fact that tlieir 
milk contains less vitamines in the winter, when they are eating dry food, 
than in the summer, when they are eating green food. The development 
of scurvy in infants at the breast may be explained in a similar way. He 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 



499 



calls attention to the fact, moreover, that the vitamines are diminished in 
the milk of women who are underfed. 

Many objections can be raised to Funk's arguments, and it may be 
urged that his premises are incorrect and his conclusions consequently 
not justified. Still, his proposition that scurvy is caused by the diminu- 
tion or absence of certain essential vital elements, or vitamines in the food, 
reconciles and explains the clinical facts and experimental evidence as to 
the etiology of this disease better than any other which has been advanced. 

Condensed Milk. — This type of milk is frequently used as food for 
young children during an emergency, as in traveling or before the breast 
milk has been fully established. It is prepared by evaporating cow's 
milk about one-fourth in volume and adding cane sugar as a preservative ; 
this is added — five to six ounces of sugar to the i^int. The composition of 
condensed milk is shown by Holt in the following table : 

TABLE SHOWING COMPOSITION OF CONDENSED MILK 





Con- 
densed 
Milki 


With 

6 parts of 

Water 

Added 


With 

12 parts of 

Water 


With 

18 parts of 

Water 


Fat 


per cent 
6.94 
8.43 

50.69 

1.39 
31.30 


per cent 
0.99 
1.20 

7.23 

0.17 
90.49 


per cent 
0.53 
0.65 

3.90 

0.10 

94.82 


per cent 
0.36 


Proteins 


0.44 


o jCane, 40.441 


2.67 


ouj,di -iMiik, 10.25 J 

Salts 


0.07 


Water 


96.46 







1 Analysis of Borden's Eagle Brand of Condensed Milk made by E. E. Smith, Ph.D., 
M.D. 

An examination of the percentages given in this table shows that con- 
densed milk is not a proper food for young or older infants, inasmuch as 
it does not contain the proper balance of food contents, fats, protein and 
sugar. It is deficient in fats and proteins and too rich in sugar. Infants 
fed on condensed milk must sooner or later suffer from some form of 
nutritional disturbance. Condensed milk is a very dangerous food if 
long continued, as it is prone to give parents a false sense of security; it 
makes fat babies, but they are flabby and anemic. Infants fed on con- 
densed milk have weak powers of resistance, they are likely to chill easily, 
suffer from bronchitis, and drift into rickets. We consider the early 
and prolonged use of condensed milk as the most prolific means of adenoid 



500 EEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

formation by devitalizing the mucous membrane of the nasopharynx. As 
a proof of this, the teeth are generally defective and erupt late and slowly, 
the bony skeleton is more slowly and generally imperfectly developed. 
Although condensed milk long continued almost invariably produces more 
or less serious malnutrition in some form, it is a very valuable temporary 
food for infants under certain conditions. Its advantages are quickly 
recognized by the poor mother in crowded hot cities. It is cheap, easily 
digested, sterile, easily prepared, and easily manipulated. It appeals, 
therefore, to the poor who cannot afford to buy clean cow's milk. 

Thousands of infants in our larger cities are carried through the 
summer months on condensed milk, who would have died from some gas- 
tro-enteric trouble if their mothers had been compelled to feed them upon 
such cow's milk as they could procure, and these rachitic malnourished 
infants, who have passed through the crisis of their existence on condensed 
milk, may with the approach of the cooler weather, gradually overcome 
this malnutrition by the addition of more wholesome food to their diet. 
The difficulty of changing the diet of an infant kept on condensed milk to 
properly adapted cow's milk is found in the fact that the infant's digestive 
tube has not been properly unfolded, or more properly speaking, devel- 
oped, and the substitution of cow's milk involves the danger of adding 
gastro-intestinal injury to malnutrition. Great care is necessary on the 
physician's part in adding very gradually the correctly adapted cow's 
milk to the condensed milk feedings. 

Buttermilk — Buttermilk has been used as an infant food for many 
years. It had its origin in Holland, where many of the leading physi- 
cians depend on it and obtain remarkable results. It deserves more 
attention in America than it has received. In recent years, the experience 
of able physicians the country over has demonstrated that it may become 
a valuable substitute for cow's milk in infants suffering from various 
forms of gastro-intestinal troubles. The buttermilk used in infant feed- 
ing is usually made from cream or milk that has soured naturally. The 
souring process in the milk, however, may be started by inoculation with 
sour milk, or with lactic acid bacilli from a culture. The last is not usual' 
for the physician. 

Unfortunately, the composition of buttermilk is so variable that results 
are uncertain. The average, however, contains about one per cent of fat, 
four per cent sugar, and three per cent of proteins. It, therefore, should 
have a food value of about 400 calories to the quart. Physicians differ 
somewhat in their methods in its preparation for infant feeding. It is 
usually prepared as follows: to one quart of buttermilk are added two 



AETIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 501 

level tablespoonfuls of wheat flour and one level tablespoonful of cane 
sugar. This mixture is, with constant vigorous stirring, slowly brought 
to the boiling point and kept there for twenty minutes, and then allowed 
to cool. The constant stirring prevents the coagulation of casein. 

Buttermilk prepared in this way has the same percentage of fat and 
protein as above given, but the carbohydrates have been increased to ten 
per cent, and the food value of the mixture has been increased to 600 
calories per quart. This buttermilk mixture, when considered from the 
standpoint of infants, contains a low percentage of fats and a compara- 
tively high percentage of proteins and a very high percentage of carbo- 
hydrates. The casein is very finely divided, separated from its calcium 
base, and appears in the form of the lactate of casein which cannot be 
acted upon by rennet, but which is readily digested by the intestinal fer- 
ments. The acidity varies in the neighborhood of 0.5 per cent. 

The chief value of buttermilk, therefore, is the larger quantity of 
easily digested casein which it contains, the small amount of fat, and the 
large quantity of easily digested carbohydrates, which substitute the fat 
in serving the nutritional demands of the body. 

Buttermilk, notwithstanding the fact that it may be used in the feed- 
ing of well infants for some months at a time without apparently produc- 
ing, nutritional disturbances, is an ill-balanced food mixture, not capable 
of satisfying the full nutritional demands of the rapidly growing infanti 
It can only be used, therefore, as a food for normal infants when properly 
modified cow's milk cannot be obtained. 

The ideal field of usefulness for buttermilk is found in that class of 
infants deprived of the maternal breast in whom the improper adapta- 
tion of cow's milk has produced some form of food injury, a gastro-intes- 
tinal disturbance, and who are, therefore, temporarily, unable to digest 
cow's milk. I have used it in beginning atrophy and acute gastro- 
intestinal indigestion. It goes without saying that this buttermilk 
formula may be so modified by the addition of sterile water as to suit the 
age and digestive capacity of the infant. 

Peptonized Milk, — In the artificial feeding of premature or malnour- 
ished infants, the milk used (cow's milk) may be partially or wholly 
peptonized. In the management of this class of infants there frequently 
arises a period where wholly peptonized milk is necessary. This period, 
however, must not be prolonged or we fail in developing the infant's 
digestive capacity. The moment we find the infant is gaining daily it 
is our duty to lessen the length of time the milk is peptonized. With this 
fact firndy in our minds, we may use with great advantage partially or 

132 



502 REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

wholly peptonized milk in feeble or immature infants until we gain con- 
trol of the digestive tube, for bj so doing we not only save the child from 
atrophy, but we may also prevent its drifting into rickets. The rule, 
therefore, in using a peptonized milk formula is to administer it until 
the infant's stomach has regained sufficient power to assimilate the proper 
cow's milk adaptation. The infant's stomach not only requires proper 
food, but it also requires the chance to digest milk, which is its proper 
function. If we fail to unfold the digestive function by withholding 
proper food, we seriously handicap the infant's progress. Peptonizing 
tubes are on the market rendering the procedure very convenient for the 
physician and the mother, one tube containing enough for a pint of milk 
— usually associated with a little bicarbonate of soda to prevent 
coagulation. 

The milk is peptonized at a temperature of 110°F. for ten to fifteen 
minutes, when it is immediately placed on ice to arrest the further pep- 
tonization. Care must be exercised not to push the process too far or the 
milk will acquire a bitter taste and the child will refuse to take it. Cane 
sugar can be added if necessary to overcome the bitter taste. I have 
found in my work that keeping the milk at a temperature of 110°F. for 
six to ten minutes is usually sufficient. This is a decided advantage for 
the infant in many ways and is much better when we commence to with- 
draw the peptonized milk. 

Sterilized Milk — Sterilized milk is still used by a very large propor- 
tion of the city's poor. With all the combined efforts of health boards 
and medical societies it has been found impossible to furnish clean whole 
milk at a price within the reach of the poor. The "certified" and 
"inspected" milk, owing to its prohibitive price, can be utilized in the 
feeding of only a comparatively small percentage of the infant popula- 
tion of our larger cities. For this reason, sterilization and pasteurization 
of milk still remain most important life-saving measures in the feeding 
of infants during the summer months; it is the only reasonable method, 
when, by reason of the heat, milk contamination increases rapidly. It is 
well^or us to remember that we cannot sterilize unclean milk, milk con- 
taining large numbers of micro-organisms, without impairment of its 
nutritive value. ]\Iilk which has undergone fermentative changes and 
which may produce poisonous irritating bodies, is a dangerous food for 
infants. Milk thus exposed and contaminated cannot be made wholesome 
by sterilization. If we wish to sterilize as a means of preventing bacterial 
contamination, it is necessary to start with the cleanest milk that is 
obtainable. 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 503 

Cow's milk is sterilized bj heating to 212° F. for twenty minutes. 
This is what is usually known as sterilized milk; the heat destroys the 
vitamines and all the developed bacteria, but does not destroy the spores ; 
thus the milk is not actually sterile, for the spores after a time develop 
into bacteria. The sporulated bacteria are not of sufficient importance 
to justify the additional application of heat. Sterilization of milk is best 
accomplished by placing the milk bottles in boiling water for twenty min- 
utes, boiling hard and filling the tops with sterile cotton and then placing 
on ice for use. The Arnold Stearns Sterilizer is a convenience and of 
great practical value for the poor of large cities. It is cheap and its 
simplicity is apparent to all. 

ADVANTAGES OF STERILIZED MILK.- The advantages derived from 
sterilized milk must be mentioned. There is a loss of acidity on the 
part of the milk which causes a retardation in the rennin coagulation and 
thereby causes the casein to be precipitated in finer flakes, so that it is 
more readily acted upon by digestive ferments ; large casein curds never 
form in sterilized milk. The fermentative processes are stopped and the 
milk is not further contaminated by bacteria. This is the important 
object of the work and greatly reduces the dangers of milk poisoning. 
Sterilization is a cheap method of preserving milk and is practically the 
only way for the poor to keep milk wholesome for their children. The 
poor can neither keep nor handle clean raw milk ; they cannot afford to 
do so, even if they knew how. Sterilized milk is better than the patent 
foods or condensed milk for the very poor. If the infant is capable of 
digesting sterilized milk, this serves nutritional purposes much better 
than the proprietary foods. 

DISADVANTAGES OF STERILIZED MILK.— The disadvantages of steri- 
lized milk, unfortunately, are many. The decomposition of nuclein, a sep- 
aration of the phosphorus from its organic union ; partial destruction of 
the fat emulsion ; increased difficulty in the digestion of casein ; partial 
separation of the lime salts from the combination with calcium, which 
renders them less easily absorbed; complete destruction of ferments, 
alexins, agglutinins and other vital principles in the milk. The loss of 
vital principle (vitamines) is the most important. The radical change 
in the milk, converting a living vital element into a dead product means 
a great nutritional loss to the infant. Sterilized milk being hard to 
digest constipates the infant, who as a result frequently faces intestinal 
intoxication with all its constitutional depreciation. 

Pasteurized Milk — Physicians actively engaged in infant feeding soon 
realized the defects of sterilized milk and began to try milk treated at a 



504 EEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

lower temperature. This was done with the hope of destroying the 
bacteria without producing important chemical and biological changes in 
the milk. Koplik first suggested heating the milk and Monti recom- 
mended a temperature of 180°F. ; Freeman has insisted on a still lower 
temperature and his apparatus has done much to popularize the method. 
This process aims at killing the greater part of the developed bacteria 
without producing serious chemical or biological changes in the milk. 
The procedure is called pasteurization to distinguish it from sterilization. 
Pasteurized milk is very generally used in this country, especially in our 
larger cities during the- summer months, and when properly used becomes 
a most important means of saving young infants. 

Freeman's conclusions on the subject are as follows : "Milk for infant' 
feeding should be pasteurized so as not to interfere with its biological 
properties or chemical composition, but at a sufficient temperature to 
destroy the bulk of the bacteria present, including the tubercle bacilli. 
A temperature of 140°F. continued for forty minutes would seem to fulfil 
these indications." Freeman also says the question concerning the effect 
of heat on ferments has been carefully worked out by Hippins. The salol- 
gplitting ferment found only in mother's milk was weakened by a tem- 
perature of 131°F. and destroyed at 149°F., while the amylolytic fer- 
ment found only in mother's milk was weakened by a temperature of 
158°F. and destroyed at 167°F. 

It seems evident, therefore, that the careful pasteurization of mill£ 
may serve the purpose of checking the fermentation process without 
materially changing its chemical composition or biological properties. 
Clinical experience strengthens this opinion, for milk pasteurized at low 
temperature may be fed for a long time with practically the same results 
as are obtained from fresh clean raw milk. The preparation of pasteur- 
ized milk, however, requires time, care and intelligence; moreover, a sub- 
sequent refrigerator temperature is necessary in order to prevent bacterial 
contamination. The method is, therefore, not commonly available for use 
among the poor of our large cities. It has, however, a large field of use- 
fulness among those city dwellers who have the time and intelligence to 
prepare pasteurized milk and the facilities to care for it after its prepar- 
ation, as in our large cities even the best available milk is rendered safer 
during the hot summer months by pasteurization. 

Proprietary or Patent Foods — The market is full of convenient foods 
to feed the baby when the maternal breast fails to furnish the natural 
supply. These foods are attractively placed before the public and are 
convenient to use, hence young mothers are readily induced to resort to 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 505 

them without proper regard to their real value. All these foods possess 
some nutritive properties, and may prove useful in an emergency. It is 
well, however, to remember that infant foods, to be of any value, must 
possess fats, sugar and protein in certain definite proportions, associated 
with mineral matters. Any proprietary food that does not contain tlie 
above elements in proper proportions can do but little good. The elements 
of infant food are easily procured and can be obtained in modified milk. 
We do not understand why so many young mothers imder the close obser- 
vance of their physician are allowed to resort to many of the proprietary 
foods. Inasmuch as they all possess some value while lacking some of the 
essential elements, it is not desirable to encourage their use, unless it is 
to bridge over a passing difficulty. A very brief outline of a few of these 
foods seems desirable. 

NESTLE'S FOOD.— Nestle's Food is one of the most convenient and 
easily digested of the proprietary foods. It is found to be a convenient 
and valuable substitute for cow's milk in infants suffering from gastro- 
intestinal troubles, especially during the hot weather, yet if long contin- 
ued, it is disastrous in its results. Its indefinite employment will most 
certainly produce rickets or scorbutus. Chittenden's analysis of Nestle's 
Food prepared for infants of six months, shows that this food prepared for 
this age contains only 0.81 per cent of albuminoids and 0.36 per cent fat. 
This marked deficiency in fat and protein renders it quite unfit to serve 
the nutritional demands of the infant for any length of time. 

When it is found necessary to use Nestle's Food it should only be 
allowed until acute symptoms have been controlled, after which small 
quantities of cow's milk should be added, and as the child continues to 
convalesce, additions of milk should be gradually made and Nestle's Food 
mixture likewise diminished, until a modified milk formula replaces the 
proprietary food. If, however, it be found necessary for some time to 
continue Nestle's Food, or any other patent food, by reason of digestive 
weakness, the infant should be given supplemental foods in form of 
orange juice, pineapple juice, or that which is more valuable, beef juice. 
This addition to a weak infant's diet very frequently prevents scorbutus 
or rickets which frequently follow in the wake of ill-balanced feeding. 

MALTED MILK. — Malted milk is a proprietary milk food which, like 
condensed milk and all the proprietary foods, is very poor in fat and 
protein. It is unsuitable as an exclusive food for infants. It is safe, 
however, for a brief period as a substitute for milk in traveling or when, 
for any other reason, cow's milk is not obtainable. It is, like condensed 
milk, very extensively used among the poor of our cities, because it is 



506 requiiieme:n^ts of infant feeding 

easily digested, easily prepared, and serves the purpose of tiding the 
infant over the hot summer months. 

Home Modifications or Adaptation of Milk — This is seemingly a most 
difficult topic to adjust in many physicians' minds, and the study of the 
subject must be based upon the elements of nutrition themselves. A few 
essentials from Cheadle, written nearly thirty years ago, may be of value 
in crystallizing in our minds the principles of cow's milk feeding as out- 
lined in the preceding pages. 

(a) The food must contain the different elements in about the same 
jyroportions as found in human milk, viz., proteins, one to two per cent ; 
fats, three to four per cent; carbohydrates, six to seven per cent; salts, 
two-tenths per cent ; water, eighty-eight per cent. This represents theoret- 
ically the ideal food for a balanced nutrition. The chemist can readily 
produce a mixture which duplicates breast milk in the nutritive value 
of its constituents and even resembles somewhat closely that emulsion in 
its physical appearance, but the dismal array of failures to reproduce 
mother's milk by a synthetic arrangement of apparently similar constitu- 
ents obtained from other sources, is an emphatic reminder of the limita- 
tions of both chemical and physiological knowledge. 

(b) It should not he purely vegetable, hut must contain a large pro- 
portion of animal matter. Most vegetable substances are deficient iii 
available proteins and yield but a small quantity of fat. Moreover, it is 
known that the infant docs not assimilate them as easily and fully as 
those derived from animal sources, even though these ingredients be sup- 
])]ied in the proper percentage. 

(c) It must be in a form suitable to infantile digestion. The digest- 
ive organs have only recently assumed their function, and are designed to 
deal solely with the bland, dilute, and easily dissolved nutriment of 
mother's milk. In the natural method of feeding the infant gets his 
nourishment in the same form at every meal ; so in artificial feeding, 
variety is not desirable. It is presumed that infants under six months 
are unable to digest much starch from the paucity of ptyalin and amy- 
l()])sin ; hence, for this age any great amount of starch in a food is enough 
to condemn it. As the walls of tiie stomach are lacking in muscular power 
and the secretions are feeble, it is evident that this organ is unable to 
deal with laVge masses of solid matter. Solids can be digested only in a 
state of minute subdivision. 

(d) The total quantity in twenty-four hours must represent the equiv- 
alent, in nutritive value, of from one to three pints of hitman milk, 
according to the infant's age. No fixed rule can be given for all children. 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 507 

Careful observation of the infant as to whether he rejects some of his 
food soon after ingestion, or seems hungry half an hour after feeding, 
may serve as a guide. The best indication that he is receiving his full' 
equivalent is a steady weekly gain of from two to five ounces — or more 
in the early months. 

(e) It must possess the antiscorbutic property. It is not yet known 
in what this consists, but it is known that infants at the breast very rarely 
suifer from scurvy, and that the disease is found among those fed upon 
condensed or sterilized milk, or upon desiccated milk preparations. 
Prompt recovery, with food unchanged (except the discontinuance of 
sterilization), has been reported by several observers. Fresh milk, there- 
fore, possesses, in addition to the important principles, this antiscorbutic 
element (vitamines), but not in large proportion, for milk in extreme 
dilution will not prevent the development of this disease. 

(f) It must he fresh, clean and free from excessive bacterial content. 
It is true that hydrochloric acid has antiseptic properties, but the stom- 
ach secretes only a limited quantity of it during the first half year. 
Hence, infants are extremely susceptible to gastro-enteric disorders, hav- 
ing little resistance to bacterial invasion. The deadly toxins which 
develop in old milk may resist all efforts at sterilization. 

(g) Another essential, voiced by Chapin, may well be added, viz., in 
feeding young animals it is not only necessary to supply the proper quan- 
tities of nutritional elements, but they must be in such form as normally 
to develop the digestive tract. 

This writer calls attention to the physical and chemical differences in 
the milk of various mammals, and shows that each is especially adapted 
not only to the nutrition but to the digestive development of its particular 
young — as, for instance, the bovine calf, which, doubling its birth weight 
in forty-seven days, attains pubescence in one year with a ruminant 
digestive tract twenty times the body length that must be fitted quickly 
to obtain food elements from coarse herbage. The calf needs a dense, 
quickly curdling, rich protein milk for early development of both muscular 
and secretory functions in his stomach, which constitutes seventy per cent 
of the digestive tract. The human infant, on the other hand, who doubles 
weight in one hundred and sixty days and attains puberty in fourteen 
years, finds only in his mother's milk the ingredients suitable for the de- 
velopment of the digestive tract, which is only six times his body length, 
and of which only twenty per cent is stomach. Hence, the early feeble 
gastric digestion must be slowly cultivated by gradually increasing density 
of the flocculent curds characteristic of human milk alone. 



508 REQUIREMENTS OF INEANT FEEDING 

PROPRIETARY FOOD PERCENTAGES 



Name of Food 



Percentages 



Condensed Milk, Eagle Brand 
Condensed Milk, St. Charles. 

Ramogen 

Mammal a 

Horlick's Malted Milk 

Mellin's Food 

Mead's Dextri-Maltose: 

No. 1 

Laiboee 

Allenbury's Foods: 

No. 1 Milk 

No. 2 Milk 

No. 3 Malted 

Eskay's Albuminiied Food. . . 

Nestle'a Food 

Ridge's Food 

Benger's Food 

Im|>erial Granum 

Wheat Flour 



Fat 



9.61 54.94 

8.70 10.95 

16.50 34.65 

12.12 55.34 

8.78 67.95 

0.16 79.57 



93.00 
17.00 55.00 



18.60 66.55 



15.88 70.90 

1.05 25.11 

3.52 55.82 

S.50 58.03 



0.28 
0.92 



7.80 
3.34 



1.04 1.80 



1.00 



Sugar 



Cane 42.91 

Milk 12.03 

MUk 



Cane 20 

Milk 13 

Milk 24 

Milk ..49 

Malt 

Dextrose 18, 

Malt 58. 

Dextrins. . .20. 

Malt 52. 

Dextrins. . .41. 

Milk 25. 

Malt 25. 

Dextrins. . . 5. 

Milk 42. 

Malt 14. 

Dextrins ... 10. 



Pro- 
tein 



8.01 
8.80 

7.00 



91 
74 
35 
15 

16.35 
80 
88 10.35 



Milk 36.00 

Malt 20.00 

Dextrins.... 13.00 

Malt 16.50 

Dextrins. . . 8.50 

Milk 54.12 

Dextrins... 1.70 

Milk 6.57 

Cane 25.00 

Malt 

Dextrins.. .27.36 

Milk 

I^argely dextrins 

and sugars. . . . 

Dextrose... 0.42 

Dextrins 1.38 



18.00 



10.66 



9.90 
10.23 



6.70 

14.34 

12.50 

12.12 
14.00 

11.40 



Starch 



60.01 

29.00 

15.39 

73.67 

77.02 
73.54 

75.10» 



Ash 



1.78 
1.40 

1.50 
4.93 
3.86 
4.30 

2.00 
4.00 

3.95 



3.71 
0.60 



0.99 

2.03 

0.61 

0.97 
0.39 

0.50 



Source of Analysis 



Own advertisement 

Jordon & Mott, Am.- 
Jour. Public Hygiene, 
1910, XX, 391 

Own advertisement 

Mellin's Food Co. 
Own advertisement 
Own advertisement 

Own advertisement * 
Own analysis 



Own advcrtisomonts, ex- 
cept proportions of 
sugars. These given 
approximately from 
analyses made by 
Mellin's Food Co. 



Own analysis 
Own advertisement 

Own analysis ' 

Own analysis • 

Holt, Diseasre of * In- 
fancy and Childhood, 
1911, p. 162 

Bulletin No. 28, U. S. 
Dcpt. of Agric. 



1 Proprietors state that this analysiH is only approximate, that the percentages of 
maltose and dextrin vary from I per cent to 2 per cent and that many samples show 
traces of prot^'in and fat. "No. 2" la the game as "No. 1," except that it does not 
contain the 2 per cent of salt. 

2 Proprietors wi.sh to emphasize the fact that the directions call for boiling, which 
"gelatinizes the stareh in the form of colloids." 

8 Proprietors wish to call attention to the fact that the food contains active amy- 
lolytic and tryptic ferments whicli. wlion tlie f<)<Ml is prepared according to the direc- 
tions, "convert the .starch into subtle sugars and modify the casein." 

* Proprietors wish to direct attention to the fact that Imperial Granum is intended 
to be used with milk. 

6 Total carbohydrates. 

It has been stated tliat the substitute feeding of infants is a broad 
subject. If the breadth of this subject is indicated by the number and 
apparent variety of infant foods on the market, a student may well quail 
before it. To the query why such a large number of foods and prepara- 
tions, the reply has been made that commercial enterprise is responsible 
for this, as it is also for the innumerable foods and preparations for adult 



AKTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 509 

use ; also that manufacturing ingenuity is stimulated to furnish presumed 
nutriment in a great variety of forms by the whims, caprices, and tastes 
of individual appetites. 

A list of proprietary foods (see opposite page) is briefly outlined as 
given by Morse and Talbot, with short criticisms of a few of the more 
popular brands. 

Man is an animal with educated or perverted tastes which result in 
a demand for variety in his viands. The adult is capable, also, of deter- 
mining, to some extent, the nutriment derived therefrom. At any rate, 
he may recognize some of the more immediate effects following the inges- 
tion of different foods. The infant, on the other hand, is but slightly 
conscious of food effects, either immediate or remote. Rarely in early 
life has he tastes, either acquired or perverted. Instinctively he craves 
nourishment, and is almost invariably satisfied with that furnished nor- 
mally by the breast. Variety in form or flavor is neither desired nor 
desirable. Reference to the essentials above enumerated will show that 
uniformity of food, containing the five constituents, is what the infant 
requires and with which he is satisfied. The great variety of baby foods 
on the market is partly the result of prejudice and ignorance. 

The average mother's withdrawing her breast from the infant is 
likened to a vessel at anchor in a safe roadbed, slipping the cable in the 
absence of the pilot, chart or compass. The baby knows not what he 
needs, the mother knows little more^ but she can read, and the claims of 
the enterprising food agents attract her attention. Too often physicians, 
also, derive their supposed knowledge of infant dietetics from the same 
source. 

The Clinical Application of Artificial Feeding. — It is well to keep in 
mind the six rules of Dr. Cotton if we would have the infant develop 
physiologically. 

(a) That the long-continued vise of food deficient in fat and lecithin tends to 
the production of malnutrition and rickets. 

(&) Deficiency in soluble proteins retards all development. It is slow 
starvation. 

(c) The use of cooked foods may result in scorbutus, hence even sterilized 
milk should not be administered continuously. 

(d) Food which would not meet the requirements of nutrition for a long- 
continued period, because deficient in some essential constituent, may be used 
temporarily, as in traveling, weaning, or temporary removal from breast. 

(e) Gastric digestion must be developed by some substance which furnishes 
soft coagula, for which purpose nothing is known to equal milk. 

(/) It is not sufficient merely to correct dyspepsia, the infant must be 
nourished and show a gain in weight and strength. 



510 



requireme:n^ts of infant feeding 



With the essential elements of cow's milk well understood and not 
forgetting Dr. Cotton's six rules for artificial feeding, we must remember 
that success in infant feeding depends, not upon the particular method 
used, but upon the intelligence, the experience and the knowledge of the 
working principles of infant feeding which the physician possesses. 
Every infant is a law unto itself, and the essential law of success is the 
discovery of the infant's strength or weakness toward some one of the 
various ingredients of the milk. Clean milk is, of course, absolutely 
necessary to success in infant feeding. Infected or unclean milk cannot 
be made safe for feeding even if it is pasteurized. This knowledge is of 
more importance than the method of feeding. Cream is more easily con- 
taminated than milk, and when over twenty-four hours old unsafe for 
infant feeding. If it is found necessary to increase the percentage of 
fat in an infant's formula, it should be done by taking it off the top of 
clean milk. Healthy common cows are safer than the Alderney or Jersey, 
in which the fat percentage is too high and the fat difficult to digest. 
Accordingly, the common cow is best for infant feeding. 

Overfeeding, not only in calories, but in the number of ounces, is 
frequently disastrous to the child, no matter what formula is used. It is 
very important to respect the child's capacity; if we do not bring on 
digestive disturbances of an acute nature, we will eventually induce a 
dilatation of the stomach with chronic indigestion, which years of careful 
feeding will fail to overcome. To give an infant all he will take is a 
very common practice. We must remember the gastric capacity of 
infancy and feed accordingly. I have never given over eight or nine 
ounces at one feeding while the child was under one year. If we give 
more, we should increase the quality and not the quantity. 



PROPER FEEDING INTERVALS FOR INFANTS OF VARIOUS AGES 
(MORSE AND TALBOT) 



Age 


24 hour Amount 


Number of Feedings, Amount and Intervals 


1 week 

4 weeks 

4 months 
6 " 

9 " 


10-12 oz. 

20 

32 " 
36-40 " 

48 


10 feedings of 1 oz. at 2 hour intervals 
8 " " IH « « 2H "• 
8 « «2H " "21^ « 

7 « « 41^ « « 3 « « 
6 « "61^ ""3 " " 

a u «Q ««Q a a 

5 « « 91^ " " 3-4 « 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 511 

Artificially fed infants, like the breast-fed, should be given their 
food at regular intervals. This is important in order to obtain good 
results. The intervals may be one, two, three, four or five-hour periods 
to suit digestive capacity as well as age and weight of the child. Usually 
night feeding can be omitted after the fourth month. The feedings 
between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. must be observed with the strictest regu- 
larity. When the child is about eight months old four feedings in the 
twenty-four hours are enough, beginning at 6 or 7 a.m. and finishing at 
6 or 7 P.M. 

While the infant is taking his food, he should be quiet, free from light 
and excitement. Food given while the child is surrounded by noise, light, 
and various members of the family,' creates irritability and disturbs diges- 
tion, laying the foundation for many ills later in life. Infants should be 
taught to lie quietly and their surroundings should be quiet to secure pro- 
found sleep. The rapidly growing nervous system of the infant is easily 
excited by an outside factor, exerting an unfavorable influence on the 
digestive organs. 

Good air is as important to the infant as clean milk, and as early as 
the first week in summer, provided the weather permits, the child should 
sleep out of doors during the day. Diaring winter the first outings shouldf 
consist in widely opening all windows. By the time the child is two 
months old, most of the sleeping during favorable weather should be in 
the open. Undue light and drafts can be controlled by the proper adjust- 
ment of couch, carriage or hammock. 

The infant's food should contain the necessary elements, fat, protein 
and sugar, in reasonably accurate percentages in order to maintain good 
health. If fever occvirs, as a result of improper food or feeding, or by 
reason of any acute infection, then the withdrawal of the milk-formula 
is necessary. As Jacobi well states, "Milk is food for infants when well, 
but food for bacteria when sick." After an illness has subsided, the 
gradual return of the whole formula is necessary — not omitting protein 
and fats, as so many do. Barley water, orange juice, or plain water will 
tide an infant over an illness lasting one week or more before milk can 
be resumed with safety. 

It is a well-known fact that the fat of cow's milk is not easy to digest. 
It is necessary to remember this and to place the percentages of fat in 
modified milk-mixtures for young infants much lower than found in 
human milk. The excess of fat which is usually used too freely, is one 
of the most common causes of indigestion in young infants. When the 
child is restless, colicky, and has loose stools, the first correction in the 



512 REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

food formula to be made in the trial change should be a reduction of fat 
and a corresponding increase in calories, namely sugar. The further 
indications for this change in the food formula are, viz., (a) if the infant 
regurgitates its food; (&) or is constipated, with gray dry stools, and 
(c) if it voids irritating urine which stains the napkin with uric acid 
constituents. 

The management of the casein of cow's milk usually causes the least 
trouble in our milk formula. Cow's milk casein may, however, be a cause 
of indigestion. After a reduction of the fat has failed to improve condi- 
tions, we are called upon to prevent the coagulation of casein in tlie 
stomach by adding a diluent or some alkali that will split up the coagu- 
lated casein. Sodium citrate in solution, a grain to one grain and a half 
for each ounce of food, is sufficient. Barley water may have to be used 
as a diluent, or it may prove necessary to boil the milk. Sodium citrate 
in solution is perfectly reliable and long experience has proven its value. 

If, however, these measures fail and casein indigestion continues, we 
may reduce the casein content of our food formula and make up the 
deficiency by the addition of whey proteins. When this trouble is cor- 
rected, we can slowly increase the fat and ])rotcins to the original formula. 
Casein indigestion is revealed by large tough curds, loose alkaline stools, 
fever, and irritability; the latter will be found a constitutional symptom. 

The sugars are the most easily digested of the food ingredients of the 
modified milk mixtures, and for this reason are frequently increased at 
the expense of the fat and protein. For this reason we frequently find 
sugar intoxication in young infants. These cases are associated with a 
watery acid diarrhea, producing irritation of the buttocks. Fever, general 
constitutional symptoms, much gas formation and intestinal catarrh are 
usually present. When these symptoms occur, it is necessary to withdraw 
the sugar entirely, or what is possibly the best procedure, to substitute 
another sugar. Theoretically, milk sugar should be the first choice, but 
practical experience has demonstrated that cane sugar is better than 
juilk sugar and that malt sugar is superior to both, so we use malt sugar 
in all of our artificially fed children. 

HOME MODIFICATION OF COW'S MILK.— In feeding infants in the 
home under the physician's care, some modification or adjustment of 
cow's milk must be made to suit the individual infant — this is called 
''home modification" and does not refer to any exact changes to be made 
in the milk, except rendering it more suitable to the baby's digestive 
capacity and nutritional demands. Every physician of experience has 
worked out, for himself, a plan for modifying milk, which his clinical 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 



513 



experience has taught him will serve his purpose better than any other 
tliat he has been able to find, and nearly every writer offers his own 
formula for home modification of milk by which a certain degree of 
accuracy in percentage feeding may be obtained. This is a true state- 
ment, and is proof that there is no single method superior to all others. 
The infant is a changeable factor, as much as the milk ingredients — 
and the infant must be modified as well as the milk. 

The prime object of these methods is to give the physician certain 
rules so he may arrange milk formulas containing definite percentages of 
protein, fat, sugar and salts. Nearly all existing methods of feeding are 
more or less complicated in the sense that they strive to give very exact 
percentages of protein, fat and sugar, in the idea that the exact percentage 
is necessary to success in feeding. This is not true for the formula, nor 
is it true for the infant. Very few physicians work out the exact per- 
centage, nor is it necessary. While there can be no objection to accurate 
percentages in infant feeding, yet the experience of the world has demon- 
strated that these accurate percentages are not absolutely necessary to suc- 
cess, and that on the whole, infants thrive just as well upon a milk 
mixture which is intelligently modified so as to contain protein, fat, sugar, 
and salts in fairly definite percentages, and in such quantities that the 
infant will not suffer from starvation in any one of these important 
ingredients. By reason of the many complicated methods given in our 
text-books, most physicians resort to the use of whole milk and a diluent 
in the form of some malted sugar food. These simple mixtures appeal to 
the young mother and the result is that most of our infants are thua 
reared. The following table is taken from Morse and Talbot : 

ANALYSIS OF WHOLE MILK VARYING CREAM PERCENTAGES 
SKIMMED AND SEPARATED MILKS 



Fat 


Milk Sugar 


4.00 


4.50 


7.00 


4.45 


10.00 


4.40 


16.00 


4.20 


32.00 


3.20 


1.00 


5.00 


0.25 


5.00 


0.25 


5.00 



Protein 



Whole Milk... 
7% Cream... 
10% « ... 
16% « ... 
32% « ... 
Skimmed Milk 
Separated " 
Whey 



3.50 
3.40 
3.25 
3.05 
2.50 
3.55 
3.65 
0.90 



While the simplicity of the whole milk method of modifying infant 
feeding has made it popular, there is no question that much better results 



614 EEQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

can be obtained by a method which uses top milk as well as whole milk 
in the preparation of infant foods. In this way the fat percentages can 
be better adapted to the nutritional demands of the infant. 

Feeding may be greatly simplified and its efficacy not materially 
diminished by making all food formulae from three ingredients, viz., 
1, whole milk, which to simplify computations one may assume contains 
4 per cent fat, 4 per cent protein and 4 per cent of sugar ; 2, top milk, 
containing 7 per cent cream — this is obtained by taking the top half of 
the milk after it has stood for two hours ; this contains very nearly 7 per 
cent fat, 4 per cent protein and 4 per cent sugar ; 3, a carbohydrate solu- 
tion made of sugars or starches containing one-half ounce of carbohydrate 
to the pint 

In infants under six months of age, because of the great dilution of 
the milk, the 7 i>er cent top milk should be used, so as not to get a too 
low |)ercentage of fat. In infants over six months of age whole milk may 
be used. 

In making modified milk mixtures from these ingredients the physi- 
cian should be guided by the principles underlying the artificial feeding 
of infants, as pointed out in the earlier portion of this chapter. 

In the table it is shown how the ingredients may be combined in the 
production of an infant food which will answer all practical purposes. 
It possesses the proper number of calories, and contains the important 
per cent of protein, fat, sugar and salts in such relative quantities that 
the infant will be satisfied. After all, the true test of feeding is the child 
itself. If the infant gains in weight, six to eight ounces per week wliile 
under four months ; sleeps well from twelve to fifteen hours in the twenty- 
four; doubles its birth-weight at six months and triples it at one year, 
we may well feel that the food is meeting all requirements. 

Between the sixth and twelfth month the food of the average well 
infant should be supjdemented by the addition of orange juice, raw egg 
albmnen, thick cereal gruels, meat juice and meat broths. All this addi- 
tional food should precede or follow the bottle, except orange juice, which 
should be given at least one hour after the bottle. 

Milk should always remain the chief food of the infant and can be 
continued until the third year, or until the child has been taught 
to chew thoroughly the food suitable for its age. 

After nursing, any food remaining in the bottle must be thrown away. 
Flies should never be allowed to touch the baby, food, or utensils. It 
should be understood that the mother or nurse will never touch the nipple 
with their lips. 



AETIFICIAL FEEDING OF INFANTS 515 

The temperature of the milk may be tested before giving it to the 
baby by allowing a few drops to fall on the back of the hand. 

The bottle must be held inverted by the mother or nurse during the 
feeding, so that the child will not suck air. 

If the milk flows too freely, ofttimes a most perplexing problem in 
artificial feeding, the nipple needs changing, or possibly, a light gauze 
packing is required. 

The time required to take six to eight ounces of food should not 
exceed twenty-five minutes of continuous nursing. This is necessary to 
develop the salivary glands and promote good digestion. 

Regularity is of prime importance. The number and length of inter- 
vals should be about the same as those given for infants at the breast. 

Water is of vital necessity and must be given at least three times a 
day ; this is best done from a bottle, two to three ounces at a time. I am 
in the habit of ordering a small quantity of sugar or soda mint, or both, 
in the bottle. This is of value if the child is constipated. 

It is a good rule to start with formulas of low percentages in com- 
mencing artificial feeding in normal babies. This is true of fats and 
proteins. Taking the mother's milk as a standard, the percentage of sugar 
and protein may be about the same, but the fats should be about one-half, 
remembering that temporary error on the side of underfeeding is much 
easier of correction than the more common mistake of overfeeding. 

The final rule is to keep the child in a cool, quiet, and dark room 
where all external irritations are reduced to a minimum. 

Summary of Rules to Be Observed in Artificial Feeding 

The aseptic care of the bottles, nipples and utensils, including the 
person of the nurse or mother, cannot be over-emphasized. This rule is 
as important as clean milk, and without clean milk the first and most 
important link in the chain is broken. The once familiar death-trap 
known as the long-tube nursing bottle, still frequently seen in children's 
dispensaries, has at last attracted the attention of legislators, so that in 
many localities not only the use, but even the sale is prohibited by law. 

In the home modification of milk the mother or nurse must be care- 
fully instructed by the attending physician in regard to all details. All 
the necessary utensils should be on hand for the proper and scientific 
preparation of the baby's aliment. These include a good medium sized 
ice box, two siphons, sterilizer, or pasteurizer, thermometer registering 
to 212° F., a dozen graduated feeding tubes or bottles (large mouth with- 
out shoulder with small lip), bottle brushes, absorbent cotton, straining 



516 REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

gauze, non-absorbent cotton for use as stoppers, mixing pitcher, glass 
funnel, tall cup for warming bottle, six black rubber nipples (reversible 
for cleaning), package of bicarbonate of soda and boric acid. 

Lime water should be kept in a well-corked bottle. The sugar (malt 
or cane) solution should be prepared fresh for each day's use. 

The supply of food should be prepared once or twice in the twenty- 
four hours, dependent upon the time of the milk delivery, and the number 
of tubes to be used. The milk should always be kept on ice before and 
after preparation. 

All bottles and utensils should be washed with hot soap-suds, then 
boiled and rinsed. The feeding tubes, after boiling, should be filled with 
hot boric acid or soda solution and left covered until used again. The 
tubes, when filled, should be stoppered with non-absorbent cotton so that 
in cooling the air may pass through. After warming to about 100° F. 
by standing the bottle in a cup of hot water, the cotton in the bottle is 
replaced by the nipple. The nipples must be boiled daily and then kept 
dry in a closed box. 

REFERENCES 

1. Davis. Am. J. Dis. Child., 1913, vol. v, p. 234. 

2. Holt. J. Am. Med. Assn., 1908, vol. li. 

3. KoPLiK, Henky. Ibid., 1912, vol. Iviii, p. 76. 

4. Pritciiakd, Eric. Infant Nutrition and Management, 1914. 

5. Graham. J. Am. Med. Assn., 1908, vol. liv, p. 1045. 

6. Holt. Ibid., 1910, vol. liv, p. 682. 

7. Davis, A. J. Dis. of Child., 1913, vol. v, p. 234. 

8. LuLiNo. These de Paris, 1900. 

9. Armstrong. British J. Dis. of Child., 1904, vol. i, p. 115. 
10. EscHERiCH. Fortschr. d. Med., 1885, vol. iii, p. 231. 

CoHN and Newman. Virchow's Arch. f. path. Anat., 1891, vol. 

cxxvi, p. 391. 
Palleske. Virchow's Arch., 1892, vol. cxxx, p. 185. 
Honigmann. Ztschr. of Hyg. u. Infect., 1893, vol. xiv, p. 207. 
RiNOEL. Miinch. med. Wchnschr., 1893, vol. xl, p. 513. 
Genond. Sur la presence du staphlocoque dans le lait des accou- 

chees bien portantes. These de Lyon, 1894. 
Knochenstiern. Hyg. Rundschau, 1894, vol. iv, p. 231. 
Halleur. Inaug. Diss., Leipzig, 1893. 
Brumm. Arch. f. Gynaekol., 1886, vol. xxvii, p. 461. 



EEFERENCES 517 

Merit. These de Paris, 1887. 

JoHANNESSEN. Jahrb. f. Kinderh., 1895, vol. xxxix, p. 398. 

RoEPER. Inaug, Diss., Marburg, 1896. 

KoESTLiN. Arch. f. GynaekoL, 1897, vol. liii, p. 201. 

11. Uhlentruth and Mulzer. Med. Wchnschr., 1913, vol. xxxix, 

No. 19. 

12. Lawrence. Boston Med. and Surg. J., 1909, vol. clxi, p. 152. 

13. MoRO. Jahrb. f. Kinderh., vol. lii, p. 542. 

14. Engel. Sommerfield's Handbueh der Milchkunde, Wiesbaden, 

1909, p. 774, Konig, Note 9. 

15. Cramer. Klinische Beitrage zur Frage der Kiinstlichen Erniih- 

rung des Neugeborenen, Inaug. Diss., Breslau, 1896 ; taken from 
Czerny and Keller, Des Kindes Erniihrung, Ernahrungs- 
storungen und Ernahrungstherapie, Leipzig u. Wien, 1906, vol. 
i, p. 356. 

16. CzERNY and Keller. Ibid., p. 353. 

17. . Ihid., p. 458. 

18. EiETSciiAL. Jahrb. f. Kinderh., vol. Ixiv, p. 125. 

19. . Loc. cit, p. 407. 

20. Engel. Sommerf eld's Handbueh der Milchkunde, Wiesbaden, 

1909. 

21. . Arch. f. Kinderh., 1906, vol. xliii, p. 181. 

22. Moll. Ihid., 1908, vol. xlviii, p. 161. 

23. Skvorlzov. Russki Vratch, vol. ii, p. 1392, Ref. Chem. Abstract, 

1913, vol. vii, No. 18. 

24. Deniges. Contribution a I'etude des lactoses, Paris, 1892. 
BoMMARTiNi. Rev. gen. du lait, 1896, vol. ii, No. 1. 

25. PoRCHER. Biochem. Ztschr., 1909-10, vol. xxiii, p. 370. 
Paton and Cathcart. J. Physiol., 1911, vol. xliii, p. 179. 

26. Pfeiffer. Verb. II. Versamml. d. Gesellseh. f. Kinderh., Wien, 

1894, p. 131. 

27. Schlossmann. Arch. f. Kinderh., 1900, vol. xxx, p. 324. 

28. Lust. Monatschr. f. Kinderh., 1913, vol. xi, p. 236. 

29. Schafer and MacKenzie. Proc. Roy. Soc, London (B), 1911, 

vol. Ixxiv, p. 16. 

30. Hammond. Quart. J. Exper. Physiol., 1913, vol. vi, p. 311. 

31. Gavin. Ihid., 1911, vol. vi, p. 13. • 

32. Mackenzie. Ihid., 1911, vol. iv, p. 305. 

Ott and Scott. Therap. Gazet., 1911, vol. xxxv, p. 689. 

33. Aschner and Grigori. Arch. Gyn., vol. xciv. No. 3. 
133 



518 REQUIREMENTS OF INFANT FEEDING 

34. Basch. Miinch. ined. Wchnschr., 1911, vol. Iviii, p. 2261. 

35. Wolf. Zentralbl. f. Biochem. u. Biophjs., 1913, vol. xiv, p. 224. 

36. Chatin and Rendu. Lyon med., 1912, vol. cxvii, p. 161. 

37. MoKSE and Talbot. Diseases of Nutrition and Infant Feeding. 

38. Crameb. Miinch. med. Wchnschr., 1909, vol. Ivi, p. 1521. 

39. Basch. Ibid., 1911, vol. Iviii, p. 2266. 

40. D'Errico. La Pediatria, Abstr. in Jahrb. f. Kinderh., 1910, vol. 

xxii, p. 504. 

41. Oppenheimek's Handbuch der Biochemie, Jena, 1910, vol. iii, p. 

403. 

42. KoNio, J. Des Menschen Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, IS! 04, Ber- 

lin, vol. ii, p. 598. 

43. KiRSCHNEE. Handb. d. Milchwirtschaft, Berlin, 1907, pp. 7, 40. 

44. Bartiie. Quoted in Maly's Jahres, 1906, p. 230. 

45. Fleischmann. Lehrbuch der Milchwirtschaft, 3rd ed., Leipzig, 

1901, p. 57. 

46. Hammarsten. Text-book of Phys. Chemistry, New York, 1912. 

47. Camaille, C. R. 63, 692. 

48. Backiians. Quoted in Mal/s Jahres, 1906, p. 299. 

49. BuNGE. Ztschr. f. Biol., 1874, vol. x, p. 309. 

50. Abderiialden. Ueber Siiuglings-Erniihrung, Berlin, 1912, p. 55. 

51. SoLDNER. Die Landwirthsch. Versuchsstat., 1888, vol. xxv, p. 361 ; 

quoted from Voltz in Oppenheinier's Handbuch, vol. iii, i, 
p. 398. 

52. Richmond. Dairy Chemistry., Phila., 1899. 

53. SciiLoss. Loc. cit.. Dairy Chemistry, Phila., 1899. 

54. Funk, Casimir. Die Vitamin etc., Wiesbaden, pub. by J. F. 

Bergman, 1914. 



CHAPTER XVI 



SPECIAL DIETS 



H. Lyoxs Hunt, M.D., L.R.C.S. and P. (Edinburgh), L.F.P. and S. 

(Glasgow) 



Food, and only food, makes blood, and hlood, as we know, makes body; so that 
our body structure is dependent upon, and only upon, the food we eat. 



Vegetable Diet: Vegetable Diet and Energy; Vegetable Diet and Health; 

Vegetable versus Animal Protein; Summary. 
Meat Diet: The Salisbury Diet; Zymotherapy. 
Fruit Diet: Fruit Diet in Disease; Lemon Cure; Grape Cure. 
Tufnell and Bellingham Diets. 
Weir Mitchell Diet. 
Training Diet- 
Reducing Diet. ' 
Diet for Professional Singers and Lecturers. 
The Dry Cure. 
The Yolk Cure. 
Milk Cures: Kumiss Cure; Matzoon Cure; Buttermilk; Cure; Sour Milk 

Cure; Milk Cure; Skim Milk Cure; Whey Cure; Karell Cure. 

From time immemorial man has fed on the fruits of the earth and 
the flesh of animals. At certain epochs in his history, under the sway 
of philosophic speculation or religious tenets, sometimes on account of 
careful hygienic considerations, or even under force of necessity, he has, 
voluntarily or not, subjected himself to special forms of diet, sometimes 
eating only fruits and herbs, sometimes adding milk to his fruits and 
vegetables. At other times, on the contrary, his alimentation has been ex- 
clusively from the flesh of animals, and again he has seen fit to subsist 
upon a mixed diet, to the rigid exclusion of all meat. These exclusive 
methods of alimentation have led to favorable hygienic and dietetic re- 
sults which find ready application in trophotherapeutic treatment. 

619 



520 SPECIAL DIETS 

Various systems of special diets and diet cures have been devised to 
meet the requirements of disease or the fancies of the faddist. Some of 
these consist solely in the elimination of certain articles of food from the 
dietary, due to esthetic tastes or humanitarian principles. In some in- 
stances the particular modification is based on trophotherapeutic reason- 
ing with a view of economic simplicity, the desire to give the digestive 
apparatus a complete rest from some particular food constituent, or the 
necessity of curtailing the amount of nutrients in the dietary without 
reducing the actual quantity of the diet or of limiting the total caloric 
value. Many of the special diets and diet cures which embody this object 
are outlined in the present chapter; and those prescribed in obesity are 
referred to in the section dealing with Diet in Diseases of Metabolism 
(Volume III, Chapter XII). The dietaries here considered are of prac- 
tical use in various conditions of health and disease, in diiferent indi- 
viduals in diiferent climates, or in the same individuals under different 
environments. 

VEGETABLE DIET 

Vegetariani8m(l), or a vegetarian diet, will be the first of the special 
diets and diet cures to receive attention, because, in one form or another, 
it is, and has long been, the alimentation of entire races of people 
numbering many millions, and of late years has become a fad with many 
Americans and Europeans, who find it more economical to patronize the 
green grocer than the butcher, and who believe, in many instances, that a 
vegetable dietary is conducive to health, longevity, good temper and a 
mildness of disposition which a carnivorous dietary obliterates. Often, 
too, believers in this special form of dietary object to the flesh of animals 
for esthetic or religious reasons, since they consider the slaughter of ani- 
mals unjustifiable to furnish food for man. 

A dietary which excluded the flesh of all animals was at first a re- 
ligious practice. The Hindoos, followers of Brahma and Buddha, believ- 
ers in the doctrine of the transmigration of tlie soul, still hold to the teach- 
ing that the spirit can migrate from man to animals, which are our in- 
ferior brothers. It has, therefore, always been repugnant to followers of 
this cult even to think of eating the flesh of an animal, which to them is 
a kind of sacrilegious cannibalism. For a similar reason the religious be- 
liefs of the ancient Egyptians forbade the use of meat, this doctrine hav- 
ing been brought by Pythagoras (2) from that country into Greece, whence 
it has been transmitted to us by time. The human race is omnivorous by 
instinct, by its dentition, by its digestive secretion, and by its need of ac- 



VEGETABLE DIET 521 

tivity. To work quickly and well, the modern man, especially, must have 
a stimulating dietary which will furnish him with the most active and 
most digestible plastic matter in the smallest volume. A diet of meat and 
vegetables seems to agree with him from every point of view. 

The strict vegetarian partakes of no animal food, and no tubers nor 
foods grown under ground, limiting his alimentation entirely to fruits 
and vegetables grown in the sunlight. Many vegetarians, however, in 
addition to vegetables, consume milk, butter, cheese and eggs, and are 
classed as lacto-vegetarians. In reality they are no more vegetarians than 
the man who eats meat, hsh or fowl. The alimentation of the lacto-vege- 
tarian, consisting of milk, cheese, butter, eggs, cereals, legumes, fruits, 
nuts and other vegetables, is advantageous to many people and more par- 
ticularly in the trophotherapeutic treatment of certain types of disease. 
Vegetarianism has its advantages in that its supporters do not overeat 
while getting a fairly bulky meal; the amount of protein consumed is 
smaller and the proportion absorbed is less from a vegetarian diet than 
from a mixed diet, which is of great advantage to many patients. A lacto- 
vegetarian dietary, such as the following from Tibbies (3), is valuable in 
the dietetic treatment of high arterial tension, the forerunner of arterio- 
sclerosis, of some forms of renal disease, as albuminuria, and of Graves' 
disease, gout, calculi, hepatic troubles, rheumatism, intestinal toxemia and 
intestinal fermentation, chronic skin diseases and chronic nervous affec- 
tions. 

LACTO-VEGETARIAN DIET 

Breakfast: 

Milk, whole meal bread, butter, one egg. 

Lunch: 

Baked beans and tomatoes, potatoes, cabbage, stewed fruit, bread, cheese, and 
salad. 
Dinner: 

Lentil soup or oatmeal porridge, bread and butter, dates and walnuts, or grapes 
and bananas. 

This dietary can be varied in many ways. The use of sauces, such 
as walnut and mushroom ketchup, or ripe tomatoes, added to beans or 
macaroni, makes them more palatable and gives zest to the appetite and 
at the same time provokes the stimulation of the secretion of gastric juice. 
Beans and peas boiled with savory herbs — mint, thyme, savory, marjoram, 
etc. — are more palatable and better flavored than when cooked without 
them. Lunch is generally more difficult to provide than the other meals. 
The following dietaries outline lacto-vegetarian lunches for a week: 



522 SPECIAL DIETS 

LACTO-VEGETARIAN LUNCHES 

Monday: 

Steamed rice and tomatoes, with grated cheese; boiled cabbage or other green 
vegetables; whole meal biscuits; custard pudding. 

Tuesday: 

Steamed broad beans and macaroni, with parsley sauce; steamed green vege- 
tables; potatoes cooked in their skins. 
Wednesday: 

Nut-roast, mushroom gravy; steamed vegetables; plain steamed pudding with 
jam or syrup. 
Thursday: 

Macaroni and cheese, with apple sauce and steamed potatoes; ginger pudding; 
fruit. 
Friday: 

Baked Irish stew containing nut-meal or peas or beans in place of meat; milk 
pudding; unfermented bread; cheese. 
Saturday: 

Lentil-roast with apple sauce or gravy; boiled cabbage; baked or steamed 
potatoes; maizene pudding; nuts and fruit. 
Sunday: 

Savory pie, consisting of steamed haricot beans and vegetables; or macaroni 
and eggs, moistened with milk and seasoned; baked potatoes; tomatoes and 
salad; groimd rice, blanc mange; fruit. 

It is no longer questioned that a dietary composed entirely of vege- 
tables will supply all the food constituents, carbohydrates, fats and pro- 
teins. A menu can be planned so as to supply all the necessary food ele- 
ments requisite for body metabolism. The nitrogenous matter obtained 
from vegetables, however, is less easily digested than that from animal 
foods, and a much larger percentage passes from the alimentary tract 
unutilized. Individuals subsisting entirely on a strict vegetarian diet for 
any prolonged period of time are apt to lose strength as well as physical 
and mental vigor and endurance and show languor and disinclination for 
work, and they become less able to resist disease(4, 5). Laborers are 
unable to perform the same amount of work they could accomplish on a 
dietary containing animal food. As previously stated, the animal king- 
dom supplies man with protein food, and the vegetable kingdom provides 
carbohydrates except honey; fats being derived about equally from both 
sources. The percentage of starch in different vegetables varies greatly, 
being highest in tubers. Green vegetables are practically fat-free, con- 
taining a very small percentage of protein, one-tenth of which is lost in 
cooking, and from two to eight per cent of starch, of which one-third is lost 
in cooking. They possess the advantage of being able to take up a great 



VEGETABLE DIET 523 

deal of fat during the process of cooking. Eats are negligible constituents 
of vegetables, but are apparently quite as nutritious and even more di- 
gestible than animal fats. A careful consideration of the elementary con- 
stituents of a vegetable dietary shows that the principal advantage of a 
strict vegetable diet is the reduction of all protein, notwithstanding a large 
bulk of vegetables may be taken. The exclusion of animal foods, with the 
exception of eggs, milk and milk products, from the diet is strenuously 
advocated by certain sentimentalists who are opposed to slaughtering ani- 
mals for food. 

According to Edmund Caultey(6), universal lacto-vegetarianism is an 
impossibility. 

Carried out thoroughly to its logical conclusion it would have a most pro- 
found effect on life generally. Under such a scheme of diet all animals except 
those used for draught purposes and pleasure would gradually be abolished. 
Were fowls only kept to supply eggs and feathers, the price of eggs would rise 
considerably. So, too, the supply of milk would be insufficient and its price 
prohibitive, for cattle could not be kept profitably for the supply of milk and 
leather alone. Woolen clothing would become the luxury of the rich. The bulk 
of the grass grown would be absolutely wasted unless the science of the vege- 
tarian were able to prepare from it a food for man. 

The productive value would be, however, increased if the grass plains were 
converted into arable land for the growth of cereals and sugar beets and into 
orchards for fruits and nuts. We should have an insufficient and expensive sup- 
ply of milk, milk products, and eggs, wool and leather. We should be dependent 
on cotton and linen for clothing and on compressed cellulose for boots and many 
other purposes. 

But although universal vegetarianism is opposed to the scheme of na- 
ture, there are cases in which the diet, or one modified by the addition 
of milk and eggs, is particularly suitable. As has been stated above, its 
advantage largely depends on a relative starvation, when compared with 
the previous mixed diet. The patient no longer overeats. Vegetarians 
claim that they live longer and are healthier, physically and morally, than 
flesh-eaters, and it is true that they may be healthier, physically, if they 
have been subject previously to ailments due to an excess of nitrogenous 
food or overeating generally. The diet is more suited to those engaged 
in hard physical work, for they sweat freely and get rid of the excess of 
water in the diet, and they require much carbohydrate food to provide for 
muscular energy. A sedentary person on a vegetarian diet is liable to 
develop a distended, flatulent abdomen, watery blood, and diarrhea from 
the excessive peristalsis set up, while the excess of waste products puts 
extra work on the organs of excretion. 



524 SPECIAL DIETS 

Tibbies (3) does not agree with the assertion that vegetarianism leads 
to mildness of temper or to gentleness of disposition. He points out that 
the buffalo, the rhinoceros and the Chinese pirate, all vegetarians, are 
equally remarkable for their cunning and ferocity. It is universally 
known that the carnivora are more active, more alert and more powerful 
than the herbivora, while the meat-eating races of man are physically supe- 
rior to those who subsist entirely on a vegetable diet. He also calls atten- 
tion to the superior physique of the American or European soldier over 
that of the Japanese or Chinese. Again, the races of mankind who subsist 
on a mixed dietary are more progressive and more alert than the vege- 
table-eating races. We learned when studying Protein and Nutrition that 
the Japanese as a race have made wonderful progress since the adoption of 
a larger protein ration and especially since eating animal food. This 
same statement applies equally to the Chinese, Siamese and Burmese. 

Vegetable Diet and Energy. — The principal influence of a vegetarian 
diet on metabolism is a lessening of many of the vital forces. According 
to Tibbies, "The influence of vegetarian diet is to slow down many of the 
vital processes, to make the person, if anything, less energetic, or of a 
quieter disposition only in proportion as all his functions become some- 
what more languid. That animal food is proper for children is suggested 
by the fact that milk is the natural food of infants and young children. 
It may be admitted that less animal food than the amount usually con- 
sumed is quite sufficient, and it is probable that two-thirds of the amount 
of protein required might be derived from vegetable sources." Hueppe 
is the authority for the statement that "man was originally a mixed 
feeder, but evolved into a flesh-eater, and lastly into a vegetarian; but 
vegetarianism only became possible after the introduction of fire and dis- 
covery of the art of cooking. Man has neither the teeth nor the gut of a 
vegetarian animal, or he would naturally graze in the fields in the sum- 
mer, and in winter eats oats from a manger." 

As a source of energy, there can be no possible advantage in adhering 
to a vegetable dietary, but on the other hand, there is a decided disad- 
vantage owing to the vegetarian diet being more difiicult of digestion. The 
amount of energy expended in the performance of bodily functions and 
the amount expended under various conditions and circumstances has been 
fully discussed in a previous chapter. It has already been stated that the 
required energy can be obtained from a purely vegetarian diet provided 
the amount consumed is sufficient, but a strict vegetarian diet does not 
appear to give the amount of strength obtained from a mixed diet. This 
view is generally held and is well expressed by Tibble8(3) : 



VEGETABLE DIET 525 

No vegetarian animal can lift the weight of his own body, not even the horse, 
ox, camel, or elephant. On the other hand, the carnivorous lion, gripping a calf 
his own weight, can jump a hurdle six feet high. The lifting power of man, the 
mixed feeder, exceeds that of any other mammal. It is recorded of Louis Cyr 
that he lifted 2,672 pounds; of Little, that he carried 1,560 pounds for fifteen 
steps ; of a Tyrolese, that in six hours he carried a load weighing 262 pounds up 
an ascent 5,000 feet high. A laborer weighing 165 pounds, working around the 
New York docks, will many times a day carry a sack weighing 220 pounds. A 
negro heljjer on the freight trains in the South will carry a 500-pound bale of 
cotton and think nothing of such a feat. The street porters of Salonica and 
Constantinople, who feed on pillaf of rice and figs, with a little meat, are noted 
for their proverbial strength. It is not at all unusual to see one of them carrying 
a grand piano about the streets on his back. Hence the saying, "As strong as 
a Turk." 

Vegetable Diet and Health — Vegetarian faddists claim that a strict 
vegetable diet is more healthful than a mixed diet, also declare that 
it tends to health and longevity, but statistics show that the vegetarian is 
just as liable to disease, and possibly more so, through his food than the 
flesh eater. Vegetarians also claim that meat causes diseases of the liver, 
gout, stone, gravel, chronic rheumatism, skin diseases, disturbances of the 
vascular system, arteriosclerosis, and other similar diseases ; that pto- 
maine poisoning may follow the ingestion of animal food ; that the animal 
whose flesh is consumed may have been the subject of anthrax, glanders, 
foot-and-mouth disease, or some of the various other maladies communi- 
cable to man. They also assert that oysters and other shellfish are a 
causative factor in outbreaks of typhoid fever. Many instances, however, 
can be cited to show that a vegetable diet may also be the means of dis- 
seminating diseases. Bread and other starchy foods from the vegetable 
kingdom taken in excess lead to indigestion, flatulence, acidity, congestion 
of the liver, and hemorrhoids, and tend to obesity, while overmilled rice 
is the cause of that scourge of the East known as beriberi, or kakke. 
While sugar possesses enormous value as a provider of energy, if ingested 
in excess it will produce evils similar to those following an excess of 
starchy foods, especially catarrh of the stomach. Again, the ingestion of 
hard fruit, nuts and fibrous vegetables may be a contributing cause to 
digestive difiiculties. Animal foods are by no means the only source 
through which disease may be transmitted. Practitioners in the tropics 
invariably give this advice, "Eat no uncooked vegetable, nor any raw 
fruit, unless you can pare it or peel it." Outbreaks of typhoid fever, 
dysentery, cholera, diarrhea and various other diseases have often spread 
from disregard of this warning, and the consumption of imported raw. 



526 SPECIAL DIETS 

unripe or over-ripe fruit is frequently a cause of tropical diseases in tem- 
perate countries. Xor is it safe to eat any variety of fruit purchased from 
the fruit stands of our northern cities, without peeling, as the fruit vender 
often has the industrious habit of polishing his apples with a rag on which 
he frequently spits. Again many diseases are communicated from the 
ingestion of green vegetables, more especially that class of diseases pro- 
duced by animal parasites. Hydatid disease, one of the most terrible of 
this type, is caused by the Taenia echinococcus, a small tapeworm which 
is taken into the body in the form of ova or partially developed Taenia on 
green vegetables, such as watercress, celery, lettuce, etc. Actinomycosis 
also enters the organism with green vegetables and cereals, while ergotism 
is a disease common among consumers of rye bread. Pellagra and beri- 
beri are deficiency diseases due to vegetable foods, which will be consid- 
ered elsewhere in this work.^ 

Tibbies coincides with Hueppe's opinion that the supposed health- 
giving properties of a strictly vegetarian diet are questionable. ''The vege- 
tarians of our time," Hueppe avers, ''belong to the class of neurotic men 
who, failing to meet the strain of town life, ever seek for a *heal-all' in 
one or another crank. Their doctrines, pushed with fanatic zeal, make 
no impression on the healthy, and only tend to overthrow the balance of 
others, who, like themselves, are the victims of unnatural modes of exist- 
ence." Waylen(7), himself a believer in this cult, and one who had inti- 
mate acquaintance with many vegetarians, in writing on this subject says 
that for eight years he was a vegetarian, wore sandals and went without 
a hat ; but it gradually dawned upon him that man is somewhat different 
from the beasts ; that if a monkey can do something, it does not follow 
that a man should do likewise. He says: "Vegetarians as a rule are not 
healthy folks. They present either a wizened and emaciated appearance 
or a tendency to flabbiness. They have a poor circulation, and are liable 
to chills. They suffer from dyspepsia, flatulence, bad breath and anemia. 
Their liver and kidneys are commonly affected, and altogether there is a 
want of vitality among them. They burden their stomachs with masses 
of crude stuff, and practically deprive themselves of fat and oil ; and 
while they daily grow thin and nervous, they think they are improving in 
health." Waylen in summing up this question says that when the human 
body is starving, it begins to feed upon itself, and vegetarians may be 
charged with being guilty of a species of cannibalism. 

We have already showTi in "Feeding in Health," ^ what the influence 

1 Volume TTT, Chapter XVII. 

2 Chapter X, this volume. 



VEGETABLE DIET 627 

of flesh food is on the character of animals, and this we will supplement 
by the opinions of two celebrated men who were keen observers of them- 
selves : 

Porphyre(2), a philosopher who gave up the Pythagorean doctrine 
to eat meat, in writing to his friend Firmus, says : 

It is not amongst the eaters of simple and vegetable foods, but amongst the 
eaters of flesh, that assassins, tyrants and thieves are met with. I cannot believe 
that your change of diet is due to reasons of health, for you yourself have con- 
stantly affirmed that vegetable diet is much more suitable than any other, not 
only to give perfect health, but even a philosophic and balanced judgment, as a 
long experience had taught you. 

And Seneca, who, preoccupied with the same considerations, had 
slowly adopted vegetarianism, writes : 

Struck by such arguments, I also have given up the use of the flesh of ani- 
mals, and at the end of a year my new habits have become not only easy to me, 
but delicious; and it even seems to me that my intellectual aptitudes have been 
more and more developed. 

We learned when studying foods from the vegetable kingdom that 
green vegetables and fresh fruit are absolutely necessary to the well-being 
of mankind, but particularly for the inhabitants of the cities and towns. 
Scurvy, which once was a scourge, is now rarely seen, due largely to the 
fact that all people realize the necessity for adding fresh vegetables and 
fruits to the dietary. As previously stated, fresh vegetables, potatoes and 
fruit contain certain salts which are absolutely essential to the proper 
constitution of the blood and other fluids of the body. "If these salts are 
withheld from the dietary," according to Tibbies, "the blood becomes im- 
poverished, and scurvy results" (3). The necessity for vegetables and 
fruit in the diet, therefore, cannot be denied, but, at the same time, we 
must insist that an exclusive vegetable diet is inconsistent with the ability 
of man to live upon all kinds of food ; that vegetable foods alone entail a 
laiger amount of work on the digestive organs; and that they do not fur- 
nish sufficient stimulating energy for our present mode of civilization. 
It is an admitted fact that some people feel better on a vegetarian diet than 
one containing meat. Plethoric individuals often complain of physical 
hebetude and want of energy after a heavy dinner of hot meat with the 
usual accompaniments, but are free from these symptoms after partaking 
of a vegetarian meal. We have shown in a previous chapter that the 
wealthy classes, who have the opportunity and can afford the luxury, dine 
too often and partake too freely of meat and game, and as a consequence 
they are troubled with disorders little known among vegetarians. How- 



528 



SPECIAL DIETS 



ever, a vegetarian diet, as a rule, is not more healthy than a mixed dietary, 
nor does it give an assurance of a longer life. Moreover, insurance statis- 
tics place less value on the life of a vegetarian than on the life of the aver- 
age American or European who subsists on a mixed ration. According to 
Tibbies, there are large numbers of people who live on a more or less vege- 
tarian diet. "The peasantry of Ireland subsist upon a dietary consisting 
largely of potatoes with a little milk, eggs and pork, occasionally replacing 
potatoes by oatmeal. This dietary is also that of the poorer classes in 
Scotland. The lower classes of Germany and Russia live largely upon 
rye bread, potatoes and fat. The Italians subsist upon cornmeal, chest- 
nuts and acorn meal. In India and China the poor live largely on rice, 
millet and vegetables, with more or less pulse and other legumes." 

Wait(9), of the United States Department of Agriculture, reports an 
investigation of the dietary consumed by a subject under a two weeks' 
observation. A small amount of meat was added, as a seasoning to the 
peas, the digestibility of which was the main object of the research. 



WAIT'S VEGETARIAN AND FAT DIETARY 



Ration 


Total 
Food for 
Four Days 


Contents of 


Food: G 


RAMS 


Energy, 
Calories 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Bread 


Grantis 

1,170 

2,600 

130 

78 

910 

130 

1,100 


112 
81 

. 2 

4 

11 

219 


11 

138 

116 

71 

7 

16 


679 
132 

"183 
130 
684 


11 

18 
4 
2 

7 

39 


3,600 


Milk 


2,182 


Butter 


1,048 


Pork 


670 


Bananas 


817 


Sugar 


515 


Peas 


4,299 


Total 

Daily average 

Proportion digested: 

per cent 

Proportion digested: 

cent 


total food 
peas, per 




420 
107 

78 

67 


359 
90 

97 

94 


1,808 
452 

94 

85 


81 
20 

64 

49 


13,131 
3,283 

88 

75 



Vegetable versus Animal Protein — In studying the subject of protein 
and nutrition(l), we found that the protein of vegetables is not so readily 
digested, absorbed and assimilated as the proteins from animal food. 
During the process of digestion a much larger proportion of nitrogenous 
compounds escapes the influence of the digestive ferments and hormones, 
principally due to the difference in the solubility of the connective tissue 



VEGETABLE DIET 529 

enveloping the animal cells and the cellulose surrounding the vegetable 
cells. It is easily understood, therefore, that, in order to secure from a 
purely vegetarian dietary the amount of protein usually considered neces- 
sary for the organism, a great deal more labor is demanded on the part 
of the digestive organs than is required in the digestion of animal pro- 
tein from an ordinary mixed diet. We have previously pointed out the 
fact that it is more economical to secure protein from legumes than from 
meat, milk or eggs, and for this reason, the use of legumes should be en- 
couraged where the diet is deficient owing to a limited income. 

The question whether vegetable protein has the same physiological 
value when absorbed as animal protein is a debatable one. Vegetarians 
claim that vegetable proteins are specifically different in their action from 
animal proteins. They go so far as to make the statement that they have 
a different effect on the body, and also on the character and morale. Our 
present knowledge of the demolition of the protein molecule is such as to 
lead us to question that any specific difference exists. Moreover, we do 
not think the point a good one for vegetarians to raise, for it is barely 
possible that animal protein requires a less complete deamination than 
vegetable protein prior to assimilation. We all know that the protein 
molecvile is composed of twenty or more amino-acids and that the proteins 
of animal foods have been constructed out of vegetable proteins eaten by 
an animal. Physiologists tell us that the same kind or the same proportion 
of amino-acids is not contained in all proteins, the principal difference 
being one of percentage or proportion. We believe the consensus of opin- 
ion at the present time is that it matters little whether the amino-acids are 
obtained from the animal or vegetable foods, that whatever their source 
they have practically the same value. 

At best, a vegetable diet furnishes a low protein alimentation, and this 
deficiency is one of its greatest disadvantages, especially among the poorer 
classes, in the case of growing children, who are so much in need of a 
bountiful supply of protein to build up their tissues. As we have previ- 
ously recorded, it is possible to maintain the nitrogen balance in equilib- 
rium when the amount of protein actually absorbed is around 56, 58 or 
60 grams daily. An adult can maintain this equilibrium on a low protein 
diet, but this cannot be done in the case of a child. Physiologists who 
have given this subject great attention claim that a low average of protein 
in the food is one of the chief causes of the high mortality among the chil- 
dren of the poor (10). It has been stated by competent authority that "the 
protein of vegetables is not as valuable from a nutritive standpoint as the 
protein from animal foods." But protein is protein, whatever be its ori- 



630 SPECIAL DIETS 

gin; albumin or globulin is of the same nutritive value whether it be 
obtained from animal or vegetable foods. It has been well said by Tib- 
bies, however, that we cannot get away from the practical fact that meat 
gives a greater degree of energy than peas or beans. Vegetarians may 
deny this, but it is founded on general experience that a man has a more 
buoyant feeling when living on an ordinary mixed diet than when living 
on a strict vegetarian diet. It has been authoritatively stated that most 
vegetarians are neurotics. They do not possess the energy, activity and 
endurance of an ordinary individual. Tibbies explains this as fol- 
lows(3): 

Given an equal amount of protein from the two sources, they have an equal 
value so far as anybody can tell. The proteins in animal foods are albumins and 
globulins; tbose in vegetables belong chiefly to the class of globulins. There are 
nucleo-proteins in both animal and vegetable foods. The non-protein nitrogen 
of animal foods consists chiefly of the extractives, creatin, creatinin, xanthin, 
hypoxanthin, carnin, urea and uric acid; that of vegetables is chiefly in the form 
of amides and amino-acids — leucin, tyrosin, asparagin, etc. Herein lies the chief 
difference in the properties of animal and v^etable protein foods. The extractives 
of animal foods are more stimulating than those of vegetable foods. It is not con- 
tended that they give greater bodily strength. Energy is not to be confounded 
with muscular strength; energy is the property of the nerves, strength of the 
muscles. Physical work is done by the muscles, but it is initiated and controlled 
by the nervous system. The extractives of meat are valuable nerve stimulants. 
Leucin, tyrosin, and other amino-acids of a like character are not stimulants, and, 
unless they are utilized by the cells of the intestinal mucosa in the construction 
of proteins, they pass on to the liver, where they are broken down into urea, 
uric acid, and ammonia. If they are too abundant to be broken down by the 
liver, they affect the organism adversely and give rise to some of the symptoms 
of intestinal toxemia. The last argument has been applied with equal force to the 
extractives and purin bodies in meat. But the display of energy by the camivora 
is very much greater than that exhibited in general by the herbivora, and this is 
accounted for not only by the greater consumption of protein, but by the different 
character of the associated non-protein nitrogen compounds. 

The question has l)cen asked, "Has the character of the protein any 
influence upon the development of organs and the performance of their 
functions?" This subject was alluded to when studying the section on 
Protein and Nutrition(l). The great importance of protein in the ali- 
mentation cannot be too strongly emphasized. In a previous chapter, we 
stated that during the period of growth and development of the body an 
abundance of protein was necessary. It is generally acceded to by physi- 
ologists that a low protein diet is unsuitable for growing children and 
young adults. Notwithstanding this fact, there are many thousands of 



VEGETABLE DIET 531 

growing children in the East Side districts of New York, for instance, 
who subsist on a diet very low in protein. The question before us is, 
however, "Does the hind of protein influence this period of growth?" 
Tibbies points out that the consumption of meat in England at the present 
time is seventeen times greater per person per annum than it was in 1850. 
During the intervening period he declares there has been a very marked 
decline in the birth rate. He also records that this decline is most marked 
in the classes of society who have an unrestricted allowance of the more 
expensive proteins of meat, game, fish and fowl. In our own country, 
and especially in !New York City, the most fertile families are the poorest 
classes in the East Side tenements, whose consumption of animal protein 
is restricted for economic reasons and naturally whose proteins are chiefly 
derived from the vegetable kingdom. It has been pointed out by some 
authorities . that the increasing consumption of animal foods affects the 
development of the organs of generation, "acts prejudiciously upon repro- 
duction and lactation, and is thereby an important factor in the causation 
of the declining birth rate and diminishing power of lactation." This 
opinion, it is claimed, has been confirmed by experiments on animals (3). 
Tibbies, in discussing this subject, says : 

The fecundity of the poor and comparative sterility of the rich in highly 
civilized communities is a matter of common knowledge, but to claim that one 
condition is due to a vegetarian or low protein diet and the other to animal pro- 
teins or a high protein diet, is at present beyond our power of conception. There 
is in fact very good evidence that a flesh diet does not diminish fecundity when 
the consumers live a normal life. The Eskimo women are not sterile, and the 
Indian women who subsist largely on a flesh diet are fertile. The Boer women 
eat meat at every meal, new vegetables and potatoes being seldom seen on their 
tables; nevertheless they are most prolific and feed their children at Nature's 
fountain. 

Summary. — By way of conclusion, we will summarize the main points 
in this section in favor of and against vegetarianism. 

(a) Foods from the vegetable kingdom are rich in carbohydrates and 
poor in protein and fat. They are bulky from their richness in starch, 
from the presence of cellulose, and from the large amount of water. 
(h) The foods from the animal kingdom are rich in protein and fat, and, 
with the exception of milk, poor in carbohydrates. They occupy little 
hulk in the raw state, and even less after cooking, (c) Foods from the 
vegetable kingdom are less easily digested and on the whole less completely 
absorbed than foods from the animal kingdom ; owing to their bulkiness 
and the indigestible cellulose which invests their nutritive constituents 



532 SPECIAL DIETS 

thej are prone to fermentation in the alimentary canal, with the produc- 
tion of acids which tends to augment peristalsis. The protein constituents 
of vegetable foods are more difficult of absorption than protein from ani- 
mal food, (d) A strictly vegetarian diet is apt to be deficient in protein, 
due to its imperfect absorption, so the qviestion of vegetarianism becomes 
a question whether it is advisable to live on a low protein diet or not. 
(e) The strict vegetarian*, who subsists entirely iipGn foods grown in the 
sunlight, must either live upon a diet relatively poor in protein or else 
consume an excessively large amount of food. (/) Statistics seem to em- 
phasize the point that a strict vegetarian aliment tends to diminish energy, 
both mental and physical, as well as the power of resisting disease, and 
if a. vegetarian attempts to consume sufficient food to yield the required 
amount of protein, the bulkiness of the diet is apt sooner or later to lead 
to derangement of the stomach and bowels, (g) Both of these results 
may be overcome by supplementing the vegetable part of the diet with 
animal substance rich in protein, but a large part of the necessary protein 
can be safely taken from the vegetable kingdom. (Ji) Milk and milk 
products, eggs, fish and meat may be used as protein carriers, but for per- 
sons in a normal condition of health the moderate use of meat and fish 
is advantageous. For the individiuil of a gouty diathesis, possibly milk 
and cheese are preferable, while skimmed milk or buttermilk and the 
cheaper kinds of cheese will be found more economical, (i) From an 
economical standpoint, there is no doubt that it will pay to patronize 
the green grocer instead of the butcher in purchasing the necessary food 
elements for subsistence. Vegetable foods can be purchased to better ad- 
vantage both as sources of building material and energy than animal foods, 
so that vegetarianism may be recommended on the grounds of financial 
economy, (j) It is a fact that vegetable foods are less highly flavored 
and less appetizing than some of the animal foods, but they have the ad- 
vantage of not being liable to undergo putrefaction and of rarely produc- 
'ng disease. 

MEAT DIET 

An exclusive alimentation from the flesh of animals is sometimes ac- 
capted through necessity. There are certain individuals who think that 
meat forms the most nourishing and most fortifying food. In fact, some 
men who are obliged to live a very fatiguing life, as the northern trappers 
and hunters, and the inhabitants of excessively cold climates, such as the 
fishermen living on the banks of the frozen seas, can subsist almost en- 
tirely upon enormous quantities of meat or fish without suffering any 



MEAT DIET 533 

untoward effects. Two conditions are, however, essential: The meat must 
be ingested with its fat, and the individuals partaking of such a diet must 
lead a very active life in the open air. 

There is no evidence to lead us to believe that the primitive peoples 
of antiquity were vegetarians, for the adaptability of the human body to 
the use of animal foods, as well as our earliest historical records, disproves 
this; while some of the most savage peoples of the present time subsist 
almost exclusively on fish and game. Darwin records that the gauchos of 
the American pampas can sustain themselves for whole months on the 
fat meat of the oxen over which they watch. The Eskimos can devour 
five to six pounds of reindeer meat per day and almost twice that amount 
of the fat and flesh of the seal, concerning which we have already made 
mention. This diet of animal food becomes unbearable if the meat is 
all lean. Gautier has made some experiments on dogs with a lean meat 
diet. A dog weighing 40 pounds required 1,500 grams of lean meat as 
the necessary requirement to keep its weight constant, whereas 400 grams 
of meat, 200 grams of fat or 100 grams of meat, 100 grams of milk and 
300 grams of bread were amply sufficient to obtain the same result. The 
findings from this experiment hold good in the case of man. In order to 
secure the 280 grams of carbon necessary for the repair of his organs and 
the discharge of his functions, 1,600 grams of lean meat would be essen- 
tial for the average man. This quantity would introduce as pure waste 
four times more protein than could be metabolized. Such enormous quanti- 
ties of meat from the point of view of hygiene and economy could only 
lead to unfavorable conditions ; besides, no one could for any length of time 
consume such enormous quantities of meat without suffering from symp- 
toms of auto-intestinal intoxication. A mixed alimentation composed of 
a rather larger percentage of meat than the standard requirement permits 
of furnishing the system, in the least bulk, with the greatest amount of 
the most nitrogenous, stimulating and useful food principles. 

However, it would be erroneous to conclude that an alimentation en- 
riched in meat to the point of being exclusively carnivorous would in- 
crease the physical power of the subject. Although a dietary taken ex- 
clusively from the animal kingdom raises the nitrogenous coefficient in 
comparison with a mixed or vegetable alimentation, a meat diet acidifies 
the blood and hinders oxidation. It overburdens the organs of excretion 
with a superabundance of nitrogenous waste, urea, uric acid, etc. ; it con- 
gests the liver ; it causes obstinate constipation ; it brings on dyspepsia, 
gastric disturbances and enteritis; it induces intestinal putrefaction and 
intestinal stasis; it brings about rheumatic, arthritic, gouty and nervous 

134 



534 SPECIAL DIETS 

tendencies. A dietary not exclusively meat but only too rich in meat 
could not be borne for long. According to Huchard, such a diet would 
produce arterial hypertension and heart fatigue, and sooner or later be- 
come an active predisposing cause of arteriosclerosis. Houssaye has 
shown that in the case of fowls, an exclusive meat diet produces sterility 
and causes an arrest of development with an excessive proportion of males. 

In view of the foregoing facts, then, an exclusive diet of flesh, or even 
a mixed diet wherein meat is liberally ingested, is not looked upon favor- 
ably from any point of view. A dietary composed too largely of meat 
tends to make individuals more aggressive, more headstrong, and the in- 
telligence less keen. The well-to-do classes are too carnivorous. Accord- 
ing to Herbert Spencer(ll), there is a marked contrast between the chil- 
dren of families where the diet is largely animalized and those where the 
diet is largely potatoes and bread. From both points of view, that of 
physical and that of intellectual vivacity, the peasant's' child is far inferior 
to that of the gentleman. From the point of view of physical health and 
strength in actual life, Spencer's dictum does not appear to hold good; 
as to the intellectual vivacity of the child in the well-to-do classes of so- 
ciety, it is far more influenced by heredity — the selection of progenitors — 
and by educational advantages. 

An exclusive meat diet has long been used in the dietetic treatment 
of tuberculosis, on the assumption that the association of gout with high 
living is largely due to the free ingestion of animal food ; that a gouty 
condition can be artificially brought about through a dietary consisting 
largely of flesh foods ; and, as is held by some, that there is an antagonism 
between a gouty diathesis and a tuberculous tendency. The main object, 
therefore, of an exclusive carnivorous diet is to induce that condition 
which is believed to be antagonistic to the growth of Bacillus tuberculosis 
or its toxins(l). When a meat diet is ordered, the meat must be freed 
from bone, gristle and connective tissue, and only slightly cooked. It 
must be taken in quantities sufficient to yield energy or fuel value to sup- 
ply the heat expended by the body — 2,000, 2,700 calories or more, depend- 
ing upon the condition of the patient. An exclusive diet of flesh of ani- 
mals, fowls and fish is also recommended for obesity — setting up a species 
of starvation, and for dyspeptic ailments, because of its simplicity and 
freedom from carbohydrate fermentation. 

It is necessary for a patient on a meat diet to consume from two to 
two and a half pounds of the edible portion of average beef or mutton to 
supply the body with the requisite amount of nutriment to meet the de- 
mands of the organism. One pound of beef or mutton freed from bone, 



MEAT DIET 



535 



gristle and connective tissue equals 453 grams. Rubner conducted a 
series of experiments with an exclusive carnivorous diet upon healthy 
medical students. The alimentation consisted of from 738 to 884 grams 
of the edible portion of beef. It was prepared with a little butter, onion, 
salt and pepper. The beverage prescribed was water or aerated water. 
After being cooked, specimens of the food were analyzed to determine 
the percentage of protein and fat. The students' digestion was normal 
in every particular, the feces containing only 1.2 grams of nitrogen or 
about 7 grams of protein. The nitrogen balance was maintained in a 
state of equilibrium with a slight gain in weight. 

Solntzer conducted experiments with beef and mutton, and Atwater 
experimented with both beef and fish. The results of some of these ex- 
periments recording the nitrogen equilibrium are graphically set forth 
in the following table from Tibbles(3) : 

METABOLISM WITH MEAT DIET 



Food per Diem 


Days 


Nitrogen 


Au- 
















Grams 


Grams 


Grams 


Gain or 


thority 






in Food 


in Urine 


in Feces 


Loss 




Beef, 884 grams 


3 


48.8 


47.2 


1.2 


0.4 \ 
1.1/ 
1.7] 
27.4 




« 738 " 


3 


39.8 
31.9 
90.9 


37.6 
25.6 

58.5 


1.1 
4.6 
5.0 


Rubner 


« 715 " 




Mutton, 1,671 grams 




1,336 « 




56.4 


50.5 


3.9 


2.0 [ 


Solntzer 


Canned beef, 895 grams.. . . 




43.9 


27.8 


7.5 


8.6 




" mutton, 1643 grams. 




75.2 


65.3 


8.6 


1.3 J 




Beef 1,200, butter 30. wine 














367, beer 1,250 grams.. . . 


3 


38.5 


37.2 


1.0 


0.3 1 




Fish 1,549, butter 50, wine 












Atwater 


700, beer 1,250 grams.. . . 


3 


45.6 


44.1 


0.9 


0.6 J 





The value of an exclusive meat diet in the treatment of tuberculosis, 
obesity, dyspepsia, and gout has already been pointed out, and will be 
further elaborated upon when these different ailments are discussed. 
It also has been recommended in chronic dyspepsia, especially in a 
condition of atony and in dilatation of the stomach, and its value 
is unquestioned in hyperchlorhydria. The fact must not be lost sight of, 
however, that sufficient nutriment must be consumed to meet the demand 
of the body, which will require from two to three pounds of the edible 
portion daily. The quantity of meat should never be less than six ounces 
of thoroughly minced meat, slightly cooked, ingested at least three times 
per day, the intervals being from 4^/2 to 5 hours. 



L 



536 SPECIAL DIETS 

Salisbury Diet. — The Salisbury diet (12) is a typical meat diet con- 
sisting of from 2 to 4 pounds of beef and 3 to 5 pints of hot water daily 
for from 4 to 12 weeks. It has been recommended as a means of treating 
certain diseases of the skin, as psoriasis (13), which have resisted the usual 
forms of medication. 

It is also recommended by Dr. Salisbury for the dietetic treatment of 
gout, obesity, chronic intestinal derangements, and disorders of nutrition 
which aro attributed to abnormal carbohydrate fermentation. The treat- 
ment aims at the thorough cleansing of the stomach before eating, by giv- 
ing a pint of hot water an hour and a half before each meal and at bed- 
time. If the water is drunk slowly, the patient will not experience any 
sense of discomfort nor will the stomach become distended. The slightly 
nauseating taste of plain hot water may be overcome by the addition of 
ginger, lemon juice or weak tea, and in cases where intense thirst is pres- 
ent, the cddition of a little nitrate of potash makes the water a more effi- 
cient thirst quencher. If constipation is present, a teaspoonful of mag- 
nesium sulphate may be added to the water. The urine should be exam- 
ined frequently to obtain the specific gravity, and the amount of water 
should be regulated accordingly. If the specific gravity falls below 1.010, 
the patient may become asthenic and the amount of water may be con- 
siderably reduced. The specific gravity of the urine should be kept be- 
tween 1.012 and 1.015. 

Caultey(14) gives the following directions for the preparation of the 
Salisbury diet: "The meat is chopped up quite fine with an American 
chopper, and all gristle, bone, fat and visible connective tissue are re- 
moved. It is made into patties, sufficiently firm to hold together, three 
to stand near it until of a drab color. Salisbury recommends that they 
in a frying pan, without fat or water, and rapidly heated, first on one 
side and then on the other. On removal from the fire they are allowed 
to stand near it until of a drab color. Salisbury recommends that they 
should be broiled slowly and moderately well. Butter, pepper, salt, 
Worcestershire sauce, mustard, horseradish, celery salt and lemon juice 
may be added as condiments. Advocates of this diet have recommended 
three pounds of rump steak and one of codfish, with six pints of hot water 
daily, for two weeks. For the next three weeks the hot water is reduced 
to four pints, and other kinds of meat are allowed, with a little green vege- 
table and unsweetened rusks. During the next four weeks the hot water is 
further reduced to two pints ; hock and claret with seltzer are permitted, 
as are grilled meat, poultry or game, crusts of stale bread and captains* 
biscuits. The meat must not be raw and must be quite fresh. 



MEAT DIET 537 

"The hot water should be given in doses of one-half to one pint, four or 
more times a day, say at 6 and 11 a.m.^ and 4 and 9 p.m., one or two hours 
before meals and half an hour before retiring. It should be of a tempera- 
ture of 110° F. to 150° F. and should be sipped slowly in one-fourth to 
one-half hour." 

There are obvious objections to this diet. It is absolutely unphysio- 
logical, being a starvation diet in respect of fat and carbohydrates. The 
quantity is much too large for most people. It throws a great strain on the 
organs which have to do with the metabolism of protein, as well as on the 
organs of excretion. It is essential to be sure that the kidneys are sound 
before adopting this treatment. 

Oysters are a welcome addition to the monotony of a meat diet and 
may be prepared as follows (15) : 

Panned Oysters: 

Take 6 deep-sea oysters, place them in a colander, and pour cold water over, 
them. Drain for ten minutes. Place the oysters in a very hot iron pan, add salt, 
pepper, a small piece of butter, and a teaspoonful of meat stock. Cook for a few 
minutes, and serve the oysters garnished with a thin slice of lemon. 

Broiled Oysters: 

Take 6 large oysters. Lay them on a board and dry, then season with salt and 
cayenne pepper. Have a gridiron thoroughly heated, place the oysters on the 
gridiron and brown them on both sides. Place the oysters on a very warm plate, 
and pour round them a little heated beef juice and a httle melted butter. 

Watson (15) considers the Salisbury diet seldom necessary or advis- 
able, but he recommends a modified Salisbury dietary as of great value 
in some cases of indigestion and chronic auto-intoxication associated with 
it. His modification of the Salisbury diet given below, while rather low 
in nitrogenous material, is amply sufficient for the short period of time 
in which the diet is necessary. Its use exerts a profound improvement 
in the state of intestinal excretions and a corresponding improvement in 
the digestion as a whole. 



MODIFIED SALISBURY DIET 

7 A.M.: 

K pint or more hot water. 

Breakfast, 8.30 a.m. : 

4 to 6 oz. meat rissoles; 2 Kalari biscuits with a little butter; small cup of very 
weak tea. 

Forenoon Lunch, 11.30 a.m.: 

3^ pint or more of hot water, flavored with lemon if desired. 



538 SPECIAL DIETS 

Dinner, 1 p.m.: 

Breakfastcupful of beef tea with }4 lb. scraped meat: thin slice of baked bread 
or dinner toast; half a dozen oysters as above; consomm6 with custard or 
consomm6 with egg, with baked bread or toast. 
3 p.m.: 

3^ pint or more of hot water. 

Afternoon Lunch, 4 p.m. : 

Breakfastcup of skimmed milk, to which is added a full tablespoonful of Carnine 
Lefranc or other meat juice; or plain egg flip flavored with cinnamon in place 
of sugar; unsweetened rusk or crisp biscuits. 
6 p.m.: 

^2 pint hot water. 

Supper, 7.30 p.m.: 

4 to 6 oz. meat rissoles or mince, followed by an egg jelly in which the sugar ia 
reduced in amount; or a blanc mange made with milk in place of cream. 

The above alimentation should be maintained for ten days to a fort- 
night, after which additions in the form of steamed fish, chicken, green 
vegetables, malted breads, jellies and fruit may be allowed. The return 
to ordinary carbohydrate foods must be made gradually. 

Zymotherapy — Zymotherapy is the name given to the treatment of 
disease by the administration of muscle juice or raw meat. This method 
of treatment is in contradistinction to the meat or Salisbury diet just de- 
scribed, which includes the entire edible portion of the meat. The raw 
meat diet is an ancient remedy ; in recent times it was first recommended 
for phthisis, empyema and pyogenic infections by Fuster of Montpellier, 
in 1865. Richet and Hericourt(16), in a series of experiments carried 
out in 1889 on tuberculous dogs, determined the value of raw meat and 
subsequently showed that the benefit was derived from the muscle juice 
and not from the muscle fiber deprived of its juice by expression. They 
reported that this method of feeding is not a matter of hyperalimentation, 
for only 50 to 100 c.c. of the muscle juice is suggested as the' daily dosage 
which was sufficient to cure the dogs, whereas hyperalimentation with the 
washed muscle fibers exerted no beneficial effects. The juice contained 
2^2 per cent of protein. "Its administration produces an increase of vigor 
and muscular power, the proportion of hemoglobin is increased, blood 
pressure is raised, digestion is improved, weight is increased, and the 
physical signs of phthisis pulmonalis or tuberculosis are abated." 

If we accept the theory that tuberculosis is due to an infection in early 
life through tuberculous cow's milk, it is reasonable then to assume that 
undercooked or raw meat should enter largely into the diet of young chil- 
dren. Meat juice and raw meat are prescribed in anemia, dyspepsia, neu- 



MEAT DIET 539 

rasthenici, debility, convalescence from typhoid fever, and after hemor- 
rhage. 

Hericourt, following the publication of his initial observations (17) 
on the value of raw meat juice in tuberculous dogs, recently published 
another paper on the subject, from which we quote the following: "It is 
probably no exaggeration to say that the raw meat treatment in pulmonary 
phthisis yields results not approached by any other means at present 
available." Eichet coincides with his associate's observations, and to- 
gether they undertook researches to determine which constituent in the 
muscular tissue possesses antagonism to the progress of tuberculosis. 
After much experimentation they came to the conclusion that the solid 
constituents of the flesh had no therapeutic action ; "tuberculized animals 
fed on flesh from which the muscle plasma had been expressed, died in 
approximately the same lapse of time as the control animals who were fed 
with ordinary food. The deduction drawn from the above experiment 
is that the agent of raw meat which produces this effect is contained in the 
muscle plasma, i.e., the meat juice." 

The muscle or meat juice must be prepared from perfectly fresh meat, 
soon after the animal dies and before rigor mortis has set in ; the muscle 
that has undergone rigor mortis loses its glycogen and contains lactic acid 
and more or less toxic products of decomposition. Hence the juice should 
be prepared as soon after death as possible. If meat or muscle juice is 
prepared from commercial or cold storage meat, it is less beneficial, more 
toxic and possibly infective. The animal whose muscle is to be used 
should neither be overworked nor underfed before death. 

According to Caultey(14) : "The meat must be finely minced, wrapped 
in stout linen, put in a sieve, and subjected to slow pressvire. Small house- 
hold presses will yield about 20 and larger presses 30 to 60 per cent of 
juice. If one-fourth the weight of sterilized water is added and the meat 
allowed to stand for an hour or two before compression, more fluid is ob- 
tained, but the bulk and the increased decomposition are disadvantages. 
Presses, mincer and linen should be well boiled or washed in boiling water 
before use. In hot weather the juice should be collected in a vessel sur- 
rounded by ice. Even in winter the juice should be taken at once, because 
of its liability to decomposition. As it is repulsive to the patient, it should 
be given in a colored glass or with warm beef tea. Intestinal disorders 
are due to neglect of some detail in the technique, generally to the impos- 
sibility of getting the meat sufficiently fresh, and unless great care is exer- 
cised, it is liable to set up alimentary, hepatic or renal troubles. 

"The dose should be 9 to 15 ounces daily, with or between meals, in 



540 SPECIAL DIETS 

water, aerated water, or tepid beef tea, with or without salt or sugar. 
Three to six ounces is sufficient for early cases. If raw meat is given, as 
much as a pound a day can be ordered, but few patients can take more 
than one-fourth to one-half pound. Raw meat and muscle juice can be 
combined in the dietary. No cooked meat should be allowed. 

"Possibly the muscle juice contains a substance which is antagonistic 
to the tubercle bacillus and its toxin, for muscle fibers are not invaded by 
the organism, and during the course of the disease they waste, perhaps 
being sacrificed in the defense of the body. More probably the good 
effects depend on the nutritive value of the fluid as a stimulant of the 
nervous system or of thyroid activity." 

According to Galeotti and Lindermann, raw meat and milk stimulate 
thyroid activity and they also are of the opinion that the decomposition 
products of raw meat increase the colloid material of the thyroid. It is 
known that defective thyroid activity and predisposition to tuberculous 
affections are apt to follow rapid growth at puberty, infectious diseases, 
prolonged lactation, sexual excess and alcoholism, in all of which the thy- 
roid secretion is liable to be used up and the gland to atrophy from over- 
stimulation. It is believed that human milk contains some of the internal 
secretion of the thyroid gland, for iodin can reach the infant through the 
breast milk. Infantile myxedema is rarely observed imtil after weaning, 
and moreover the infant's thyroid gland contains little colloid material. 

Caultey, in summing up the advantages of zymotherapy, says: "Im- 
provement in a tuberculous patient fed on raw meat and muscle 
juice is noticed, (a) by increased muscular power, (h) by the increased 
hemoglobin, (c) by rise of blood pressure, and (d) by better diges- 
tion and improvement in the physical signs. In the very young the 
prognosis varies according to the loss or gain in weight, especially during 
the first month. The treatment should be continued for a varying period 
depending upon the extent of the disease and the improvement following 
its administration. It may be resumed at intervals depending on the 
condition of health. 

FRUIT DIET 

The fruitarian diet is an aliment composed exclusively of fruits and 
nuts. Of late years many experiments in metabolism have shown that it 
is possible for individuals to maintain a nitrogen equilibrium on such a 
diet. M. E. Jaffa^ has thoroughly investigated the fruitarians in Cali- 



1 Professor of Nutrition, Univ. of California. Bui. 132, U. S. Dept. of Agric. 



FKUIT DIET 541 

fornia. His reports are interesting and valuable, and from them we have 
drawn largely in preparing this section. 

It is not questioned that an alimentation composed of fruits and nuts 
is pleasant and agreeable. At the same time, it is, at best, only a low pro- 
tein diet, rarely containing more than 50 to 60 grams of protein. It is 
unnecessary to refer to the arguments for and against a low protein 
dietary, as this subject has already been fully considered. Chittenden and 
other physiologists have found 50 to 60 grams of protein in the daily food 
sufficient for physiological needs, and many people have maintained their 
health and vigor for years on a fruit and nut or other low protein aliment, 
yet they seldom look rugged or robust. The fruit and nut diet, like the 
more common vegetarian diet, must be considered of questionable value 
and unlikely to become popular as a regular method of feeding, with peo- 
ple who have an inborn taste and desire for animal foods. 

We have already shown that, as compared with the so-called standard 
dietaries, the vegetarian and fruitarian are lamentably poor in protein 
and fat, and in some instances deficient in caloric value. See also the fol- 
lowing tables abstracted from the excellent study of Fruitarianism by 
Professor Jaffa (8). Below are appended the records (taken from Voit 
and Alba) of three subjects who subsisted on fruits, as recorded by 
Tibbies : 

Man, twenty-eight years old; height, 5 feet 5 inches; weight, 125 pounds. 
His daily diet consisted of: rye bread (pumpernickel), 131 grams (41/2 ounces); 
graham bread, 438 grams (nearly 1 pound) ; apples, 777 grams {1% pounds) ; 
dried figs, 114 grams (4 pounds) ; dried dates, 247 grams (8 ounces) ; oranges, 
66 grams (2 ounces); olive oil, 21 grams (% ounce). It contained: protein, 54 
grams; fat, 22 grams; carbohydrates, 573 grams; and had a heat value of 2,775 
calories. (Voit's observation.) 

Man, forty-eight years old; height, 5 feet 8 inches; weight, 153 pounds. He 
consumed daily: potatoes, 1,000 grams (2^4 pounds); hazel nuts, 166 grams (6 
ounces) ; peanuts, 12.5 grams (y2 ounce) ; plums, 83 grams (3 ounces) ; sugar, 
71 grams (21/2 ounces) ; raisins, 93 grams (31/2 ounces) ; apples, 354 grams (% 
pound); oranges, 63 grams (2^/2 ounces); olive oil, 50 grams (1% ounces). It 
contained : protein, 63 grams ; fat, 66 grams ; carbohydrates, 593 grams ; and had 
a fuel value of 3,302 calories. (Alba's observation.) 

The following example of a moderate vegetarian diet is outlined by 
Jaffa. His subject was a man, aged sixty-four years, height 5 feet 8 
inches, weight 136 pounds; he had been a vegetarian for eleven years. 
The total food consumed by him during a period of twenty-four days was 
as follows: 



542 



SPECIAL DIETS 
JAFFA'S VEGETARIAN DIETARY 



Cereals: 

Granose. . . . 

Gluten flour . 

Flaked rice . 

Honey 

Vegetables: 

Baked beans 
Dried fruits: 

Dates 

Figs 

Prunes 

Raisins 



2,155 grams 

454 " 

1,673 " 

1,985 « 

1,021 « 

425 " 

28 « 

794 « 

255 « 



8,790 grams 



Carried forward 
Fresh fruit: 

Apples 

Bananas 

Grapes 

Raspberries 

Nuts: 

Almonds 

Brazil nuts 

Pine-nuts 

Walnuts 

Total 



8,790 grams 

5,585 " 

2,722 " 

3,317 « 

397 « 

907 " 

1,361 " 

198 « 

907 « 



24,184 grams 



These items furnished an average weight of 2^/4 pounds of food daily 
at a cost of ISy^ cents, containing: protein, 53.5 grams; fat, 76.9 grams; 
sugar and starch, 301.8 grams; crude fiber, 10 grams. The fuel value 
was 2,043 calories. The man was healthy and well, and lived on a dietary 
containing 50 to 60 grams of protein, or about half the amount commonly 
accepted as being necessary for a man having a sedentary occupation. 

It is unquestioned that a fruit diet in certain diseased conditions is a 
valuable trophotherapeutic measure. The subject of Professor Jaffa's 
investigation was a healthy, vigorous university student, aged twenty-two, 
well set up, and prominent in athletic sports. 

For the first week he ate his ordinary mixed" food ; the next nine days he con- 
sumed a diet in which fruit replaced a large proportion of the meat, eggs, fish, 
milk and cereals; finally he consumed for eight days a diet consisting entirely of 
fruit and nuts. 

An examination of the urine and feces of other consumers showed that in 
many instances, although the diet was of a low protein character, the amount of 
protein digested and absorbed from the food was enough to maintain the nitrogen 
balance in equilibrium during the experiment. When the amount consumed daily 
consisted of 5^2 pounds of grapes, 6 ounces of walnuts, and a little granose, there 
was an actual gain of 1.29 grams of nitrogen, equal to 8 grams of protein. In 
another instance the average daily consumption consisted of 4Vi pounds of apples, 
8 ounces of dried figs, and 4% ounces of walnuts, which also resulted in a gain 
of 1.28 grams of nitrogen, or 8 grams of protein. With a diet averaging 3V2 
pounds of apples, 9 J ounces of dates, 6 ounces of peanuts, a little granose, milk, 
olive oil, and tomato, the gain of nitrogen was 2.26 grams, equal to 14.13 grams 
of protein. With 5^2 pounds of pears, 7 ounces of walnuts, a little granose and 
milk, there was a gain of 4.25 grams of nitrogen, equivalent to 26.5 g^rams of 
protein; and with a diet averaging 16 ounces of walnuts, I8V2 ounces of dried 
prunes, and 18 ounces of oranges, there was a gain of 3.42 grams of nitrogen, or 
21.38 g^ams of protein. 



FRUIT DIET 543 

The experiments in feeding with bananas did not give such good results. 
Bananas, dates, and walnuts resulted in a loss of 1.82 grams of nitrogen, or 11.38 
grams of protein; bananas, oranges and walnuts gave a deficiency of 1.89 grams 
of nitrogen, or 11.8 grams of protein. The consumption of 5 pounds of bananas 
a day resulted in a loss of 1.34 grams of nitrogen, or 8.38 grams of protein; 
4 pounds of bananas and 41/2 ounces of almonds daily gave a deficiency of 0.86 
grams of nitrogen, or 5.38 grams of protein; 2V2 pounds of bananas, 21 ounces 
of oranges and 5 ounces of pecan nuts gave a deficiency of 1.69 grams of nitro- 
gen, or 10.56 grams of protein. A diet of 22 ounces of dates, 2% ounces of 
almonds and 12 ounces of olives gave a deficiency of 2.06 grams of nitrogen, or 
12.88 grams of protein. A diet of pears and eocoanut gave a loss of 1.57 grams 
of nitrogen and 8.8 grams of protein. The deficiency is not great in any of these 
cases, but the continued daily loss of 1 or 2 grams of nitrogen by the body is 
deleterious and must ultimately result in ill health. It is possible, as we have 
seen, to prevent such a loss by means of a carefully regulated diet; but it is 
difficult for the non-scientific subject to adjust his diet so carefully to the needs 
of the body. In this respect, therefore, we are bound to state that very few 
fruitarian diets contain enough protein to maintain the nitrogen balance in equi- 
librium, and still fewer contain the amount of protein required by the standards 
set up by numerous authorities. The amount of fat in the food is also almost 
always below the standard required, and only reaches the standard when the food 
contains a large proportion of nuts, olives or olive oil. The nutriment in fruit 
consists chiefly of carbohydrates, the digestibility of which compares very favor- 
ably with the carbohydrates in a mixed diet. Respecting the heat value of the 
food, the following table shows that the amount of energy yielded by the food 
is greater in proportion to the amount of fat; it is low with bananas, but better 
when bananas and nuts are consumed together; it is also low with apples, pears 
or grapes as a diet, but is considerably improved by the consumption of half a 
pound of brazil nuts, pecans or walnuts. A diet of apples, figs and walnuts, or 
of pears, figs and walnuts, is capable of supplying enough protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate for the use of the body, and sufficient energy for a man doing moderate 
work. 

Carefully recorded studies of persons subsisting upon fruits and nuts 
are scarce; therefore, the observations of Jaffa(18) are of special interest. 
The instructive table on page 544 contains a summary of the food elements 
contained in the dietary which each individual, described by Jaffa, ate. 

The first six of these people lived on apples, dates, figs, peaches, apri- 
cots, bananas, grapes, oranges, pears, plums, raisins, olives, almonds, pig- 
nolia, pine nuts, brazil nuts, walnuts, sometimes tomatoes, celery and 
honey. 

The individuals comprising the subjects for Jaffa's studies were all 
vigorous and healthy people. The six-year-old girl had subsisted on a fruit 
diet since infancy. She was undersized, but this may have been from in- 
heritance. During the ten days that she was under observation she gained 



544 



SPECIAL DIETS 
FRUITARIANS STUDIED BY JAFFA 



Age in 
Years 


Weight 

in 
Pounds 


Protein : 
Grams 


Fat: 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate: 
Grams 


Crude 
Fiber: 
Grams 


33 


90 


33 


59 


110 


40 


30 


104 


25 


57 


72 


27 


13 


75.5 


26 


52 


111 


46 


9 


43 


27 


56 


102 


50 


6 


30.5 


24 


58 


97 


37 


7 


34 


40 


72 


126 


8 


63 


124 


40.3 


53.7 


286.3 


24.6 


64 


136 


53.5 


76.9 


301.8 


10 


10 


58 


48.4 


67.7 


246.7 


13.4 


8 


37 


32.3 


81.7 


155 


10.7 


34 


93.5 


42.5 


81.1 


156.8 


9.8 


22 


170 


85 


158.7 


. 366.3 




25 


152 


68 


103 


550.1 


64.7 


48 


153 


63 


98 


401 




28 


125 


54 


22 


573 




64 


136 


54 


77 


312 


.... 



Calories 



Woman 
Woman 
Girl. . . . 
Boy.. .. 
Girl.... 
Girl. . . . 
Man. . . 
Woman 
Boy.. . . 
Girl. . . . 
Woman 
Man. . . 
Man. . . 
Man. .. 
Man. .. 
Man. . . 



1,300 
1,040 
1,235 
1,255 
1,190 
1,385 
1,713 
2,043 
1,729 
1,403 
1,432 
2,936 
3,305 
2,493 
2,775 
2,004 



a pound, and her brother, aged nine, gained a pound in a period of twenty- 
two days. The thoroughness of digestion and absorption was comparable 
with that of an adult on a mixed diet, 80 per cent of the fibrous cellulose 
being completely digested. The fourth study of tliis table was a boy aged 
nine, who first subsisted on bananas, oranges and pecan nuts. This same 
boy was studied a few months later, and during the observation he sub- 
sisted on pears and walnuts, granose and milk. Some of the other persons 
in this study ate cereals to a limited extent. The twelfth individual sub- 
sisted on grapes, brazil nuts, tomatoes, granose and olive oil. He was 
not accustomed to a fruitarian diet, but tried it at the time of the experi- 
ment. A striking feature of these fruitarian dietaries is the small amount 
of protein and the low caloric value of the diets. However, they approach 
very closely to what Chittenden has shown is all that is needed to maintain 
health and strength. 

Fruit Diet in Disease. — The value of a fruit diet is especially marked 
when employed as a temporary measure in those instances of illness or 
poor health in which the protein intake must be diminished, particularly 
when the necessity arises for cutting down the purin bodies to the lowest 
possible point. When the ordinary diet is confined to fruits and nuts, the 
latter should be ground in a mill, mastication should be thorough, only 
a moderate quantity of food should be allowed, and the daily meals should 



FKUIT DIET 545 

not exceed three. The best subjects for the ''fruit cure" are those who 
habitually overindulge in food and drink, and whose systems become 
choked with the "clinkers" of imperfectly oxidized food. Symptoms com- 
monly complained of in this condition are a foul tasting mouth after the 
night's sleep, early morning headache and lassitude. This cure is often 
useful in intestinal fermentation and putrefaction ; in albuminuria, gout, 
obesity, hemicrania, and other disturbances common to individuals and 
families originally accustomed to plain and wholesome country living. 
The attempt of an organism with such a background to adapt itself to the 
modern demands of city life, often results in disaster to the bodily mech- 
anism. The "fruit cure" in such instances is often beneficial. The low 
protein intake allows an increased alkalinity of the blood and decreased 
acidity of the urine; in addition, its action is laxative and diuretic, and 
the liver cells are stimulated to greater activity, and hinders intestinal 
fermentation. In the dietetic treatment of acute nephritis, fruits, such 
as oranges, raisins, pears, etc., will augment the carbohydrates of the 
milk. This mixed treatment of milk and fruits diminishes the 
albuminuria, encourages diuresis, and drives away edema. If a pa- 
tient has lost weight, raisins or raisin juice, added to a diet rich in 
fat and albumin, will help to regain the loss. If, on the other hand, it 
is thought wise to decrease the patient's weight, increase the raisins and 
decrease the fats and albuminoids, other fruits and vegetables being par- 
taken of at the same time. The fruit diet is useful when occasionally it is 
thought wise to institute a fast day, when the only food should consist 
of apples, grapes, pears, bananas, or some other variety of fruit. 

In some sections, "apple-fasts" have been very popular with many 
persons, especially society matrons who have become "fair, fat and forty" 
and are anxious to reduce their weight. They are also recommended 
in gouty diathesis, chronic rheumatism and chronic disturbances of the 
liver, Bright's disease, and in the condition of high blood pressure pre- 
ceding the development of arteriosclerosis, and in intestinal fermentations 
and putrefaction, etc. "Fasts" on apples alone do not agree with all pa- 
tients, and there are some individuals who believe they cannot abstain 
from their ordinary dietary for a period of twenty-four hours, even though 
they may consume large quantities of fruit. 

The partaking of fruit in acute febrile conditions is a very ancient 
practice. Fruits such as grapes, strawberries, oranges, bananas and baked 
apples may be taken with impunity in many febrile affections. Wlien 
studying the various fruits we learned that the fruit juices are of consid- 
erable dietetic value in the treatment of diseases. The trophotherapeutia 



546 SPECIAL DIETS 

action of fruit juices increases the secretion of urine and its alkalinity, 
and stimulates the kidneys and indirectly the skin; at the same time 
these juices act as thirst quenchers. The juices of grapes, oranges, pine- 
apples, currants, gooseberries, raspberries and strawberries are freely 
used for this purpose. The juice of the lemon is one of the commonest 
articles in the sick room in the form of lemonade. The many recipes for 
its use in the sick room will be found elsewhere in this volume.^ The 
juice of the orange is also as useful in illness as it is palatable in health. 
Various recipes for using orange juice will also be found in the reference 
just cited. 

LEMON CURE. — The "lemon cure" is a very ancient practice in the 
treatment of obesity and the gouty diathesis and is highly recommended 
when combined with thermotherapy. The usual method is to take the 
expressed juice of three fresh lemons in sweetened water three times a 
day with tlie exclusion of milk and fatty foods. Preserved lemon juice 
is not as eifective as that of the fresh fruit. It is questionable, however, 
if there is any scientific basis for the consumption of lemon juice as an 
anti-fat. The manufacturer of quack remedies for obesity uses a large 
percentage of citric acid in his remedies which are practically worthless. 
The effect of lemon juice upon the food seems to exert an inhibitory power 
over steapsin and amylopsin, which retards the digestion of fat and carbo- 
hydrates. 

GRAPE CURE.— Ampelotherapy, or "grape cure," is probably the best 
known of the fruit cures. It is usually carried out in southern Europe 
at places like Meran and Montreux, but is available wherever grapes can 
be obtained. The grape cure depends largely for its good effects on change 
of diet and manner of life, the climate and surroundings, and the aperient 
action of the grapes. When aided by a simple supporting aliment, it is 
a suitable dietary for the overworked, the weak and the convalescent. It 
is recommended in conjunction with the spare diet limited particularly 
as to hydrocarbons and carbohydrates, in cases of abdominal plethora, 
chronic bronchitis and emphysema, chronic constipation, and chronic 
gastro-intestinal catarrh. Its use is also valuable in the dietetic treatment 
of obesity. When the grape cure is taken in Germany, from one to eight 
pounds of grapes are. eaten daily and little or no other food allowed. 
Those who take the cure are expected to pick the grapes for themselves, 
which insures exercise in the open air. This method is particularly 
adapted to the obese and to those who lead a sedentary life. The treat- 
ment ordinarily consists in taking one pound or more of grapes three 

1 Volume II, Chapter XVII, page 679. 



TUFNELL AND BELLINGHAM DIETS 547 

times daily fiom half to one hour before meals, the meals consisting of 
light, easily digested foodstuffs, for example, fish, chicken, milk puddings, 
stewed fruit, toasts or rusks, and green vegetables, avoiding all rich made 
dishes, rich sauces, pickles, potatoes, lentils, pastry, cheese and sweets. 
The duration of the course is from four to six weeks. The chief effect 
of this alimentation is a laxative one, which renders it suitable in hepatic 
ailments, chronic constipation and hemorrhoids. For the analysis of 
grapes, see Volume I, Chapter XIX, page 752. 

Caultey(14) recommends the following mode of treatment: "Begin 
with half a pound of grapes when fasting, an hour or two after a light 
breakfast, and again at 5 p.m. In three days give a third half-pound at 
noon, or after the midday meal if there is dyspepsia. Gradually increase 
the dose to one pound at a time. The aperient effects are manifest in a 
few days. It is rarely advisable to give more than two pounds in lung 
cases ; three pounds in gastric and intestinal catarrh, the diet being care- 
fully regulated at the same time; and four pounds in other conditions; 
but the amount may be increased to five to six pounds for abdominal 
plethora, hepatic constipation and chronic constipation. Figs and prunes 
can be added to relieve the monotony of the diet. The course of treat- 
ment lasts for six weeks. Small quantities of white bread may be eaten 
after the grapes to remove acids from the teeth, and if the gums become 
irritated, the mouth should be rinsed out with bicarbonate of soda solu- 
tion." 

TUFNELL AND BELLINGHAM DIETS 

Tufnell's diet for the treatment of aortic and other aneurisms is a 
modification of the methods formerly employed by Albertini and Val- 
salva (19) in cases which could not be treated surgically. The plan of 
treatment was to "detain the patient in bed for forty days, and during 
this period to subject him to repeated bleedings, while at the same time 
the diet and drink were carefully ordered, so that the daily allowance ad- 
ministered in three or four meals should never be such as to fill up the 
blood vessels. The practice formerly was to diminish the quantity of meat 
and drink gradually every day, until it was cut down to about half a 
pound of pudding in the morning and in the evening half that quantity 
and nothing else except water, and this also within a certain measure. 
After having sufficiently reduced the patient by this method so that by 
reason of weakness he could scarcely raise his head from the bed in which 
he lay, the quantity of aliment was increased again by degrees until the 
necessary strength returned sufficiently to allow him to rise in bed." 



548 SPECIAL DIETS 

Bellingliani in 1852 omitted the blood-letting and devised a method 
which was continued by Tufnell, who in 1875 published a monograph on 
the subject, the principal aim being the reduction of the force and fre- 
quency of the heart's action and to favor the deposition of fibrin on the 
. wall of the aneurismal sac. The treatment is very debilitating and "only 
suitable for cases of saccular aneurism unassociated with disease of the 
aortic valve, aiid for patients who are sufficiently intelligent to understand 
the importance of carrying it out strictly and who have sufficient will 
power to put up with its discomforts." 

Bellingham's dietary is very much the same as Tufnell's, both of 
which are given below. They are modifications of the methods adopted 
by Albertini and Valsalva, who treated their patients by bloodletting, rest 
and modified diet. 

Bellingham Tufnell 

Breakfast Milk or tea 2 oz. Milk or cocoa 2 oz. 

Bread 2 oz. Bread and butter 2 oz. 

Dinner Liquid 2-4 oz. Water or light claret 4 oz. 

Bread 1-2 oz. Bread or potato 3 oz. 

Meat 1-2 oz. Boiled or broiled meat 3 oz. 

Supper Liquid 2 oz. Milk or tea 2 oz. 

Solid 2 oz. Bread and butter 2 oz. 

Tufnell's diet contains eight ounces of fluid and ten ounces of solids. 
It is true that this dietary, or one quite similar, though not so severe, has 
often modified pain or caused it to disappear entirely, while the aneurism 
has become smaller and pulsated less ; but many patients refer to the cure 
as worse than the disease. The method of treatment as outlined by Caul- 
tey(14) directs that the "patient should rest on a water bed and remain 
absolutely still, doing nothing whatever for himself, a restriction which 
few people have the strength of will to adhere to. The moiith may be- 
come so dry and parched that even the limited amount of solids cannot be 
taken. Sucking a pebble or button will relieve the thirst a little. An- 
other great trial to the patient is painful micturition,, because of the ex- 
treme acidity of the urine. It can be reduced by alkalies. Constipation 
must be relieved by oil enemata if necessary. There is so little waste 
matter in the food that an action of the bowels once a week is sufficient. 
The heart and aneurism must be carefully watched. If the pulse becomes 
more and more frequent, the patient restless, and the dryness of the mouth 
so great that he is unable to take food, the treatment must be modified." 

Such a restricted diet is no longer believed by able clinicians to be 



WEIR MITCHELL DIET 649 

essential to good treatment, while an abstemious, nutritious diet is. This 
starvation treatment is only advisable in well-nourished subjects, espe- 
cially those with a plethoric temperament. It is, on the other hand, al- 
together unsuitable in weak or debilitated subjects. In the latter class 
there is more often than not an enfeebled digestion and it may be advis- 
able in the beginning to resort to a milk or lacto-vegetarian dietary. Rest 
in bed or in mild cases gentle exercise should be insisted upon. To-day 
the iodids are almost universally relied upon. In recent years the sub- 
cutaneous or intravenous injection of gelatin has been used with some 
success. Of course, the gelatin should be sterilized and the strictest care 
taken to prevent sepsis. 

The important points to keep in mind in prescribing a dietary in all 
cases are, according to Watson (15), the following: 

(a) Restriction in the amount of fluids of all kinds. Not more than from 
20 to 30 ounces in the twenty-four hours. 

(6) Meats and meat foods to be given in very sparing amount, the stimulating 
effects of these foods on the circulation being prejudicial. 

(c) A light, simple, nutritious diet, given thrice daily, with no food between 
meals.* The meals should be much on the lines of the diet laid down on page 548. 

(d) Alcohol in all its forms is inadvisable, excepting in cases of feeble diges- 
tion, where its use in small doses may prove beneficial. 

WEIR MITCHELL DIET 

The Weir Mitchell diet(20) is recommended by the author for the 
dietetic treatment of neurasthenia and disorders of malnutrition independ- 
ent of organic disease. The principal points in carrying out this method 
of treatment are isolation, massage and forced feeding. The isolation 
from friends, callers and the family exerts a beneficial and moral effect. 
Massage and electricity aid in promoting digestion and the nutrition of 
the muscles. A good nurse is essential. She must be kind, bright, sen- 
sible, and able to make a favorable impression on the patient. 

The patient should be kept in bed for at least six weeks, leaving it only 
to go to the toilet. Mitchell recommends that the milk diet should be 
instituted gradually, especially if the patient has an aversion for milk. 
It shoukl be given in doses of one or two ounces every two hours and 
gradually increased until as much as two quarts are drunk in the twenty- 
four hours. In some cases Mitchell recommends that the milk should be 
given even at night as often as every three or four hours. At the end of 
the tenth day an egg or chop should be eaten at noon in addition to the 
usual allowance of milk. Often earlier than this Mitchell prescribes 

135 



550 SPECIAL DIETS 

meat juice once or twice a day. A day or two later bread and butter are 
given and an egg or some meat at breakfast as well as at dinner. By 
degrees the patient is placed upon a diet of three simple but generous 
meals daily, and in addition, three or four pints of milk are consumed, 
the latter being administered partly with the meals and partly between 
meals. 

The following is a synopsis of the management of an individual case 
of Weir Mitchell's and is appended to illustrate the practical application 
of his rest cure : 

WEIR MITCHELL'S DIETARY 

Mrs. C, kept in bed, fed by an attendant, rise only to relieve bladder and rectum. 

First Day: One quart of milk in divided doses every three hours. 

Second Day: Cup of coffee on awakening. Two quarts of milk in divided doses every 
two hours. Aloetic pill at night. 

Third to Sixth Day: Same diet. 

Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Days: Same diet, with a pint of raw soup in three portions. 
This is made by chopping up one pound of raw beef and placing it in a bottle with 
a pint of water and five drops of strong hydrochloric acid. The mixture stands 
in ice all night; in the morning the bottle is put into a pan of water at 110° F., 
and kept two hours at about that temperature. This mixture is then thrown into 
a stout cloth and strained until the mass that remains is nearly dry. If the raw 
taste proves very objectionable, the beef to be used is first quickly broiled on 
one side and then the process is completed in the manner previously described. 

Tenth Day: 7 a.m.. Coffee; 7.30 a.m., 10 a.m., 12 m., 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 p.m., Half a pint of 
milk; 11 a.m., 5 and 9 p.m.. Soup. 

Fourteenth Day: Eggs, and bread and butter added. 

Sixteenth Day: Dinner added and iron. 

Nineteenth Day: The entire diet was as follows: 7 a.m., Coffee; Breakfast, 8 a.m., Iron 
and malt extract, chop, bread and butter, a tumbler andahalf of milk; Lunch, 
11 A.M., Soup; Dinner, 2 p.m.. Anything liked, with six ounces of Burgundy or 
dry champagne, and at the end one or two tumblers of milk. Iron and malt; 
Tea, 4 p.m.. Soup; Supper, 7 p.m.. Malt, iron, bread and butter, usually some 
fruit, and two glasses of milk; Late Supper, 9 p.m., Soup; 10 p.m., Aloetic pill. 
At 12 noon, massage for an hour. At 4.30 p.m., electricity applied for an hour. 

Sixth Week: Soup and wine were dropped, iron lessened one-half; massage and elec- 
tricity only on alternate days; 1/30 of a grain of strychnin sulphate thrice a 
day at meals given (continued for several months). 

Ninth Week: Milk reduced to a quart. All mechanical treatment ceased. 

Result: Gain in flesh about face in second week. Weight rose in two months from 
96 to 136 pounds; gain in color equally marked. On thirtieth day patient had 
normal catamenial flow after five years of failure to menstruate. Ninth week, 
drove out. Cure complete and permanent. 



WEIR MITCHELL DIET 551 

By the end of the sixth week of this treatment, the patient may be 
returned to a full diet and in addition take at least from 00 to 80 ounces 
of milk per day. 

FULL NEURASTHENIA DIETARY (Weir Mitchell) 

Early Breakfast, 7 a.m. : 
10 ounces of milk. 
Breakfast, 8.30 a.m. : 

Plate of porridge or gruel, or hominy; or bowl of bread and milk with a gill of 
cream; fish, bacon, eggs, or kidney; cocoa or coffee; bread or rolls; butter or 
marmalade. 
Lunch, 9 A.M. : 

10 ounces of milk. 
Second Lunch, 11 a.m.: 

Cup of beef tea with 2 teaspoonfuls of beef peptonoids. 
Dinner, L30 p.m.: 

Fish, tripe, sweetbread, cutlets, game or poultry, served with one vegetable, with 
a sweet such as stewed fruit; 10 ounces of milk to be sipped slowly during this 
meal. 
Afternoon Lunch, 4 p.m. : 

10 ounces of milk with sponge cake; bread and butter, or rusk. 
Supper, 6.30 p.m. : 

A three-course meal. Soup or fish; joint or poultry; sweet or savory, or dessert; 
taking with meal 10 ounces of milk. 
Late Supper, 8.30 p.m. : 

Beef tea and 2 teaspoonfuls of peptonoids. » 

10 p.m.: 

10 ounces of milk. 

Occasionaily a physician is called upon to attend a stout patient with 
flabby muscles presenting the usual symptoms of neurasthenia. In the 
successful handling of this type of patients, a mild starvation is a neces- 
sary preiiminary for a few days prior to beginning the Weir Mitchell 
treatment. This method of treatment is recommended by Playfair as fol- 
lows: 

Confine patient strictly to bed; diet with skimmed milk, at first two quarts 
per diem, given in small quantities every two hours; after a day or two lessen 
this gradually till not more than a pint per diem is taken. If the patient's strength 
fail unduly under this, some beef tea or soup may be temporarily substituted for 
the milk. Under the minimum diet the weight gradually loses about ^2 pound 
per diem (the patient should be weighed every second day), and when some 14 
to 20 pounds have been taken off, pure milk may be substituted for skimmed, 
and the treatment as detailed above pursued. 



552 SPECIAL DIETS 

TRAINING DIET 

The training diet is a question which has been agitated during recent 
years bj the leaders in Held athletics at the greater schools and universities 
both of this country and Europe (21). Of late, a great deal has been 
written pertaining to the diet best adapted for athletes, both amateur and 
professional, when training for a contest, in order to have them physically 
lit for feats of endurance. The necessity of this training is fully recog- 
nized by all athletes, and while opinions may dilfer as to the methods, 
there is more or less accord in the ideal that is sought. The object of 
training is to put a man in condition to execute a large amount of work, 
and sometimes skilled work, in a very short period of time, which is quite 
a different problem from feeding a laborer or artisan. The latter re- 
quires an alimentation which will enable him to do a large amount of 
work daily, continuing over a long period of time. 

The usual training diet has been based on a liberal allowance of meat, 
on the assumption that the wear and tear of muscular tissue is great and 
that meat is the greatest source of strength and less fattening than other 
foods. The great nervous and muscular energy of carnivorous animals 
is often quoted to substantiate this assumption. We know that the race 
horse is the fastest animal for a reasonable distance, but certain species of 
the carnivora can maintain a short burst of speed which will exceed that 
of the race horse. It is not questioned that a liberal supply of animal 
food is suitable for a short distance runner, but it certainly is not a suit- 
able diet for prolonged exertion, as may be seen in- the case of the Japan- 
ese, who on a vegetable diet are able to run continuously for hours at a 
time and drag a jinrikisha occupied by a passenger. 

The general principles of training are: (a) the reduction of weight 
by the removal of superfluous fat; (6) the improvement of the tone of the 
muscles and heart, inducing long "wind" and endurance. During the 
period of preparation for an athletic test, muscles must be made to grow 
and the waste caused by trial tests of strength be repaired. Proteins are 
necessary for cell growth and repair, as well as to furnish nervous energy. 

Although carbohydrates are an economical source of a large number 
of calories or units of energy, so that muscular work can be performed 
on such a diet, nevertheless rapid and accurate muscular work, that 
entailing correct correlation of movements, demands much nervous energy, 
and for this type of work proteins are necessary. Tender conditions re- 
quiring the ingestion of large quantities of food, a generous proportion of 
proteins should be furnished on account of their ease of digestion. The 



TRAINING DIET 553 

carbohydrate intake should be carefully chosen and skillfully prepared, 
so that this part of the diet may also be easily digested. Professional 
athletes recognize the importance of keeping ''fit" and being in perfect 
trim in order to perform feats of strength and endurance. In a well- 
trained athlete the muscles are hard and firm., the fat is reduced to a 
minimum, the skin is clear, the eyes bright, the expression indicative of 
perfect health, the body is active and the "wind" good. 

The length of time necessary to train varies with the previous habits 
and mode of life of the individual. Ordinarily, the average college youth 
of the athletic type can be put in fit condition in six weeks, and it must 
be borne in mind that the transition from ordinary habits to those of train- 
ing should be gradual both as to the regulation of the alimentation and 
of exercise. 

Practice and experience have emphasized the advisability of a gener- 
ous mixed, liberal, full diet as the one calculated to put an athlete in the 
best trim. At the training tables of the Harvard and Yale crews such 
food as the following is eaten : Good lean beef or mutton, best given under- 
done, toast made from stale bread, and potatoes and green vegetables of 
all kinds. Fruits, beef, lamb, mutton, chicken, fish, bacon and eggs, and 
simple puddings are allowed, but no highly seasoned food is permit- 
ted(22). The following articles are prohibited: entrees, rich puddings, 
pastries, sauces, pickles, spices, appetizers, and all fanc;^ and complex 
dishes. Made dishes or dishes made from twice-cooked meats, all spirits 
and strong alcoholic drinks, as well as tea, cofFee and nerve stimulants are 
prohibited. Tobacco, in all forms, is strictly forbidden. Water is allowed 
in liberal quantities, but if there is a tendency to obesity, the amount is 
somewhat limited, the quantity being gradually reduced and only sufii- 
cient quantity allowed to allay thirst. We have already referred to carbo- 
hydrates as producers of strength. In this connection it is interesting to 
note the experiences of the Holland oarsmen, who, according to 
Davis (23), "while in training began to show signs of overwork, loss of 
flesh, a lack of ambition and energy, and a disinclination for study and 
work. By eating sugar as freely as they wished, sometimes as much as 
one-third of a pound a day, they were refreshed and able to win the race 
against the antagonists who did not believe in its use." Sugar, a crystal- 
lized carbohydrate, is permitted as an adjunct to the dietary of the athlete 
in training, but pies, cakes and other sweets and more or less indigestible 
dishes, as already pointed out, should be forbidden (2 4). 

Atwater and Bryant(25) conducted experiments on this particular 
question, from which we cite the following : 



554 SPECIAL DIETS 

Two young men, with only two hours a day for practice, at the end of two 
months entered for the race. No change had been made from their usual diet, 
except that they ate as much sugar as they wished, sometimes as much as a third 
of a pound at the time of their daily exercise. One of them, however, did not 
make this addition to his diet until the third week, when he began to show all the 
signs of overtraining — loss of weight and a heavy, dull feeling, with no desire 
for study. On the third day after beginning the use of sugar these symptoms 
disappeared. At the time of the race both youths were victorious over their 
antagonists, who did not believe in the use of sugar. No bad effects were observed. 

An athlete in training must ingest more food and in larger amounts 
than a person of the same physique following an ordinary vocation, 
but care must be taken not to overeat and thereby derange digestion ; nor 
must the meals be eaten at too long intervals. 

The following report of the Yale crew, on the authority of Dr. Hart- 
well, formerly a captain of the University crew and of the University 
football team, is quoted from Thompson (26) : 

The training covered a period of ten and one-half weeks. 

DIETARY, YALE TRAINING CREW 
Breakfast, 7.30 a.m. : 

Fruits (oranges, tamarinds, figs, and grapes); cereals with rich milk and sugar, 
etc.; beefsteak, usually rare; chops, stews, hash, with once or twice a week 
some salt meat, as bacon or ham, usually accompanied by liver; stewed, 
browned, or baked potatoes; eggs served in different ways; oatmeal-water and 
milk as beverage, with tea on special occasions for some particular individual. 
Dinner, 1 p.m.: 

Soups, meats, fish, vegetables, with a simple dessert, such as rice, bread, or tapioca 
pudding, some fruit, and the same beverages a.s at breakfast were also used. 
The meats included roast beef, mutton, or chicken, two kinds being always 
served. But little gravy was used. Fish was served twice a week. The vege- 
tables included potatoes, mashed or boiled; tomatoes, peas, beans, and com. 
Two vegetables besides potatoes were usually served. 
Supper, 8 to 8.15 p.m.: 

Cereals, as at breakfast; chops, stews, or cold meat from dinner; rarely beef- 
steak; potatoes, stewed or baked; and eggs about three times a week, usually 
not on the same days that they were served for breakfast. Sometimes ale was 
permitted to some individual. 
After the crews were in final preparation for the race at New London the diet 
varied somewhat : Breakfast and dinner remained about the same, but a light luncheon 
of cold meat, stewed or baked potatoes, milk and toast was served at 4.30 in the after- 
noon. After this the evening exercise was engaged in for about two hours. Forty- 
five minutes after this was completed cold oatmeal or other cereal with milk and toast 
was served. A light supper was served at 9.30, just before the men retired. This 
diet was much more liberal than that served ten years before. The men were allowed 
as much food as they desired. 



TEAINING DIET 



555 



The table of dietary studies incorporated herewith is taken from the 
extensive studies of Atwater and Bryant, giving the summary of results 
of dietary studies of university boat crews, football teams, and of pro- 
fessional athletes, and compares them with the standard dietaries of men 
engaged in various occupations. 

DIETARY STUDIES OF UNIVERSITY BOAT CREWS 

Nutrients Actually Eaten per Man per Day 



Crews 


Protein, 
grams 


Fat, 
grams 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
grams 


Calories 


Harv'ard University Crew 


162 
153 
145 
160 
135 
171 
155 


175 
223 
170 
170 
152 
171 
181 


449 

468 
375 
448 
416 
434 
487 


4,130 


Harvard Freshman Crew 


4,620 


Yale University Crew 


3,705 


Harvard University Crew (Gales Ferry) . . 
Harvard Freshman Crew (Gales Ferry) . . 

Yale University Crew (Gales Ferry) 

Captain Harvard Freshman Crew 


4,075 
3,675 
4,070 
4,315 


Average. . , 


155 


177 


440 


4,085 



It is interesting to note that these dietaries for the university crews 
are very similar to that advised for Americans during a period of hard 
work. They are a little fuller than the English and German standards. 
Football teams lead in the quantity of food ingested. Relative to the 
other carbonaceous foods, the proportion of protein is markedly increased. 
Comparing the dietary of college students in training with that of an 
ordinary college club, the excess of proteins in the former is very notice- 
able. The average diet of a training crew contains 155 grams of protein 
and yields 4,085 calories, making a difference in fuel energy between the 
two of about 400 calories. The diet furnished the oarsmen at Gales Ferry 
yielded the oarsmen one-ninth more energy than that of the men not en- 
gaged in athletic work. In other terms the difference amounted to 48 
grams or an increase of nearly one-half of protein. 

Atwater and Bryant (27) outlined the following account of the dietary 
of the Harvard boat crew at Cambridge : 

The diet was simple, and consisted of roast and broiled beef and lamb, 
fricasseed chicken, roast turkey and hroiled fish. Eggs, raw, poached or boiled 
in the shell, were used plentifully. Large amounts of milk and cream were also 
consumed. Oatmeal, hominy and shredded wheat were eaten extensively, and 
com cakes were served occasionally. Bread was almost always taken in the form 
of dry toast. Potatoes were served twice a day, either baked or boiled and 
mashed, with the addition of a little milk and butter; occasionally they were 
Qreamed. Boiled rice, prepared with a little cream and sugar, wag served instead 



556 



SPECIAL DIETS 



of potatoes at some meals. Beets, parsnips, green peas and tomatoes were used 
to furnish a variety of vegetables. Macaroni was occasionally served. For des- 
sert, apple, tapioca, custard, or other pudding containing a large proportion of 
milk and eggs, was served. The members of the crew were allowed beer once a 
day. Milk was obtained from one of the large creameries supplying that vicinity, 
and was of unusually good quality, containing 5.8 per cent of butter fat. A very 
thick, heavy cream was also used, diluted about one-half with milk. This mixture, 
or thin cream, contained about 16 per cent of butter fat. 

The animal food consumed during this studj' was entirely from the loin of 
the beef. Occasionally the roasts were from the fillet, and at other times the 
ordinary loin roast with the bone was used. The meat was sliced in liberal por- 
tions, being previously practically freed from all the clear fat and tissue, and 
sent to the table on a lai^e platter from which the men were served individually. 
The beef was cooked underdone and served rare. When the beefsteak was served, 
it was freed from the bone, nearly all of the visible fat being removed. Lamb 
chops were served with the bone. Lamb and mutton roasts were all taken from 
the leg, and were also clear meat, trimmed free from visible fat. The turkey 
used was shipped from a distance and had been in cold storage. It was baked 
with stuffing and dressing, although very little of the latter was served to the 
crew. Chicken was always prepared fricasseed and sen-ed free from bone, except 
the leg and wing. Fish was usually served for breakfast, bluefish and Spanish 
mackerel, broiled. Eggs, either raw or poached, were also allowed. No pastry 
was permitted, and puddings, as previously stated, were composed largely of eggs 
and milk. No fresh fruit except oranges for breakfast was permitted. Stewed 
prunes, rhubarb, or apples were eaten most abundantly. No beverages other 
than water or beer were allowed. 

Yeo(28) gives the dietary of the English boat crews at Oxford and 
Cambridge. It may be interesting in this connection to compare the 

A DAY'S TRAINING FOR THE STJMMER RACES 



Oxford 
7 A.M.: 

Rice; a short walk or run. 
Breakfast, 8.30 a.m.: 

Underdone meat; crust of bread or 
dry toast; tea (as little as possi- 
ble). 
Dinner, 2 p.m. : 

Meat (as at breakfast); bread; no 
vegetables (not strictly adhered 
to); 1 pint of beer. 

5 or 5.30 P.M. 

Rowing exercise. 
Supper, 8.30 or 9 p.m. 

Coldmeat or bread; sometimes jelly 
or water-cress; 1 pint of beer. 
10 P.M.: 

Retire to bed. 



CAMBRmGE 

A run of 200 yards as fast as possible. 

Underdone meat; dry toa.st; tea, 2 
cups (later only 1^2); water-cress 
(occasionally). 

Meat (as at breakfast); bread, pota- 
toes, and greens; 1 pint of beer. 
Dessert: oranges, biscuit, or figs; 2 
glasses of wine. 

Rowing exercise. 

Cold meat; bread; lettuce or water- 
cress; 1 pint of beer. 



TRAINING DIET 557 

A DAY'S TRAINING FOR THE WINTER RACES 

Oxford Cambridge 

7.30 a.m.: 7 a.m.: 

Rice. A short walk or run. Exercise as for summer races. 

Breakfast, 9 a.m.: Breakfast, 8.30 a.m.: 

As in summer. As in summer. 

Luncheon, 1 p.m.: 

Bread or a sandwich and 3^ pint of A little cold meat; bread and ]/2 pint 

beer. of beer, or biscuit and glass of sherry 

(sometimes yolk of egg in the sherry). 
2 p.m.: 

Rowing exercise. Rowing exercise. 

Dinner, 5 p.m.: Dinner, 5 to 6 p.m.: 

Meat as in summer; bread; same As in summer, 

rule as in summer as to vegeta- 
bles; rice pudding or jelly; 3^ pint 
of beer. 
10 P.M.: 

Retire to bed. 

Water strictly forbidden. As little 
liquid to be drunk as possible. 

English dietaries with the dietaries at Yale and Harvard. Maclaren gives 
the following schemes of training as carried out at Oxford and Cam- 
bridge : 

In making a resume of the results of their observations, Atwater and 
Bryant state that, in a "general way, the difference between the food of 
the athletes and that of other people represents a difference in actual phys- 
ical need even if neither is an accurate measure of that need." The prin- 
cipal difference in the food of athletes as compared with that consumed 
by ordinary working people or college men is that the dietary of the 
former, owing to the large percentage of protein, is productive of a larger 
amount of energy. An increase of protein is necessary, not so much to 
provide additional energy as to make good the wear and tear of the strain 
on muscular tissue expended in the performance of strenuous exercise or 
laborious work, as well as in certain cases to enable the muscle to add sub- 
stance to its bulk. The daily excess of the athletic diet over ordinary diet 
is about 400 calories or 10 per cent. The amount of protein consumed in 
the Atwater experiments was about 45 per cent above standard dietaries. 
"In other words, the difference in protein was four and one-half times as 
great as the difference in fuel value, and the excess in protein would ac- 
count for a considerable part of the excess of energy of the diet of the 
athletes as compared with men in ordinary occupation." 

In the final summing up of their research and experiments, Atwater 
and Bryant record the following interesting observations : 



558 SPECIAL DIETS 

In this connection it is interesting to observe that many physiologists are 
coming to entertain the view that tiie amount of metabolism in the body is regu- 
lated not simply by the muscular work, but also by the nervous effort required in 
the performance of this work. The especially large proportion of protein ob- 
served in the dietary studies of the university boat crews, of football teams, of the 
professional athlete and of the pugilist, as compared with the dietary studies of 
college men with ordinary exercise, and with ordinary faraiilies of workingmen and 
professional men, accords well with a view not uncommon of late among physi- 
ologists. According to this view, men who perform continued muscular labor, 
even if it is active enough to make the total amount large, do not require espe- 
cially large amounts of protein in their food so long as they undergo no especial 
mental strain or muscular fatigue, the principal requirements being an abundant 
supply of easily digested food material. On the contrary, when a man or animal 
must perform intense muscular work for a short period of time, and is, there- 
fore, under more or less nen-ous as well as muscular strain, a considerably larger 
supply of protein seems to be required than under normal conditions of slow, 
long-continued work. In other words, if a large amount of work must be done 
in a short time, a considerable excess of protein is required in the food. This 
view, which has been especially advocated by Zuntz(29), seems to be favored by 
the results of dietary studies above discussed. 

Recent experiments made by Dunlop, Paton, Stockman and Mac- 
adam (;^0) have to do with the amount of protein required wlien severe 
muscular work is performed. The results are discussed with especial ref- 
erence to training, and are believed to "show the importance of two points 
long known to athletes and others doing excessive muscular work." 

The one is the importance of proper training, for by it an abstraction of 
protein matter from tissues other than muscle can be avoided; the other is the 
importance of there being a sufficiency of protein in the diet to compensate for 
the loss which occurs. An abundance of protein in the diet of an athlete has 
other functions to fulfill besides this. It is required during training for building 
up the energy-liberating mechanism — the protoplasm of muscle; and it is also 
required after work to repair that mechanism. The benefits of training are well 
known in other ways, such as preparing the heart for suddenly increased duty 
and limiting the after fatigue effects. 

The power of the body to perform the maximum of muscular work within a 
comparatively short time and with a minimum amount of fatigue is secured by 
means of training. Of course, skill in application of muscular strength is as 
essential as is the amount of power exerted. The skill is sought by exercise and 
practice. The object of regulating the diet in training is not only to furnish the 
material to supply the power, but also to put the machine in the best condition 
for developing as well as applying the power. In other words, the man is to be 
subjected for a short time to intense muscular strain and considerable nervous 
effort. This he is to bear with a maximum of result and the minimum of fatigue. 
For this he needs practical training, on the one hand, and proper diet, on the 
other. If the views above presented are correct, the diet for men from whom 



REDUCING DIETARY 559 

intense muscular effort is required for short periods should supply liberal amounts 
of energy and especially large amounts of protein. 

REDUCING DIETARY 

A reducing dietary may be so planned that one may dine both well 
and wisely, omitting the fat-forming foods. Of late, the slim, sylph-like 
tigure has become fashionable, and the physician is daily importuned 
with : "Doctor, what shall I do to reduce ?" When a society matron be- 
comes "fair, fat and forty," she is desperate to reduce and will rigidly 
adhere to any dietary her physician will outline. Lately both men and 
women of the first "four hundred" have fasted and fumed, boiled in 
Turkish baths, and rolled the floor in various gyratory calisthenic con- 
tortions, strenuously fighting the tragedy of fat. 

We have previously pointed out that everyone, as a rule, and more 
especially the corpulent individual, eats too much and sleeps too much. 
In the majority of instances, corpulency is due directly to overeating, and 
the average dietary consists largely of fat-making foods, from soups to 
nuts. It follows then that the natural cure for corpulency is to restrict 
the ingestion of fat-producing foods — carbohydrates and hydrocarbons. 
Of the former, Mahdah advises the elimination from the dietary of the 
following : bread, biscuits, crackers, and anything made from wheat, corn, 
rye, barley, oats, cereals and breakfast foods; rice, macaroni, potatoes 
and dried legumes ; pies, cakes, puddings, pastries and custards ; candies, 
bonbons and all sweets, including ice cream and sirup-sweetened soft 
drinks. Of the latter class, we would advise the total abstinence from 
pork, ham, bacon and the fat of any meat; milk, cream, cheese, butter, 
olive oils and any foods seasoned with grease (Mahdah menus). 

At first glance, it would seem that there is little left to eat, but one 
may dine well and wisely from a menu made up of the following: All 
kinds of meat except swine flesh ; all kinds of game, including fowls ; all 
kinds of sea food, fish, lobsters, clams and oysters; all fresh and dried 
fruit with the exception of grapes and bananas ; all varieties of salad made 
from fresh vegetables and served with dressings free from olive oil ; all 
types of meat jellies; cucumbers, celery, mushrooms, tomatoes, olives, 
pickles and chili and Worcestershire sauce. Of green vegetables, any of 
the following are permissible: Brussels sprouts, string beans, cauliflower, 
beets, spinach, lettuce, beet-tops and turnip-tops cooked as purees, carrots, 
squash, celery root, salsify, cabbage, endives, artichokes, radishes, par- 
snips, eggplant, onions, asparagus (Vance Thompson, Mahdah). 

From the foregoing, a menu can be made up that will be satisfying 



560 SPECIAL DIETS 

and contain sufficient food value for healthful maintenance. In Mahdah's 
"Eat and Grow Thin" ^ will be found menus especially calculated to get 
rid of excess fat. By following these menus religiously, it is believed 
that corpulent individuals, without question, lose from fifteen to thirty 
pounds within a period of three months. It will be noted that these menus 
do not provide for breakfast. This meal consists largely of fresh or 
stewed fruit and twice a week boiled or poached eggs may be served ; tea 
or coffee is allowed without cream or milk; other than this, no fluids are 
to be taken with the meals. Of course, between meals sufficient water to 
quench thirst may be taken with impunity. 

DIET FOR PROFESSIONAL SINGERS AND LECTURERS 

Beyond question diet exerts more or less influence on the fullness and 
richness of the voice. A hearty meal interferes with full, free respiration 
to the extent that singing is practically or even entirely impossible. The 
vocal cords may become congested following the ingestion of food or drink, 
and smoking often exerts an injurious effect upon the voice. Alcoholic 
drinks imbibed to excess, as well as irritating articles of food, may, and 
often do, impair the tone of the voice and should be omitted. 

Opera singers possess peculiar and curious idiosyncrasies. Certain 
articles of alimentation exert a deleterious effect upon the voice of some, 
while the same food will have just the opposite effect on others. Ruh- 
rah(31), quoting Russell in "Representative Actors," delineates an inter- 
esting list of foods and beverages partaken of by prominent stage folk 
prior to appearing before the footlights. He states that "Edmund Kean, 
Emery and Reeve drank cold water and brandy; John Komble took 
opium ; Lewis, mulled wine and oysters ; Macready was at one time accus- 
tomed to eat the lean of a mutton chop previous to going on the stage, but 
subsequently lived almost exclusively on a vegetarian diet ; Oxbury drank 
tea ; Henry Russell ate a boiled egg ; W. Smith drank coffee ; Brahara 
drank bottled porter ; Miss Catley took linseed tea and Madeira ; G. F. 
Cook would drink anything; Henderson used gum arable and sherry; 
Incledon drank Madeira; Mrs. Jordan ate calves'-foot jelly and sherry; 
C. Kean took beef tea ; Mrs. Wood sang on draught porter ; Harley took 
nothing during a performance. Malibran, it is said, ate a lunch in his 
dressing-room half an hour before singing. This consisted of a cutlet and 
half a bottle of white wine, after which he smoked a cigarette until it was 
time to appear." 

1 Volume TTI, Chapter XXVTT, "Mahdah's Menus," '^at and Grow Thin," by Vance 
Thompson, pub. by E. P. Dutton, N. Y. 



_- ^jj^ j^j^Y CURE 561 

While discussing food and drink for actors and their peculiar idio- 
syncrasies, we will relate the dietary habit of Mr. Edmund Kean, who, 
according to Smitli,^ "was in the habit of adapting the kind of meat he ate 
to the part he had to play, choosing pork for tyrants, beef for murderers, 
and lamb for lovers." This may seem a stretch of the imagination, ''but 
it may indicate that there are subtle differences in the different kinds of 
meat which chemistry has not enabled us to detect, but which are yet not 
without influence upon the body." 

Ordinarily, no food should be partaken of immediately before singing 
or speaking, but a good meal should be ingested some three hours before, 
which should be somewhat lighter than usual. It is the habit of many 
singers and speakers to refrain from food prior to their performance or 
lecture, and to partake of a good full meal soon after. According to Ruh- 
riih, the food much used by singers is the so-called "Jenny Lind soup," 
which is a very bland potion, and does not impair the voice. "It is made 
of bouillon and sage, to which are added the yolks of two eggs and half 
a pint of cream before serving; sugar and spices are added according to 
taste. Many prominent singers suck an orange, while others chew dried 
plums immediately preceding their performance." During the interval 
between performances, a singer, like any other professional person, should 
subsist on a well-balanced general diet, of course avoiding irritating foods. 
Singers W'ho have a tendency to obesity should follow the dieting and exer- 
cise laid down in Volume III, Chapter XII, for the treatment of this 
condition. Alcoholic liquors and strong beverages do not in any way im- 
prove the voice, but on the other hand may exert a deleterious effect, and 
should therefore be avoided. Light wines and beer in moderation may 
usually be taken with impunity. They are best avoided, however, as their 
continual use may possibly lead to the formation of a drinking habit. 
Many of the best singers are of the opinion that smoking is injurious to 
the voice ; on the other hand, many famous male singers are habitual users 
of tobacco and are rarely seen without a cigar in their mouth. 

THE DRY CURE 

The dry cure consists in withholding fluid from the diet, giving less 
and less each day, until the patient takes the least possible amount that 
will sustain life. If carried to this extreme, the thirst becomes both in- 
tolerable and practically unbearable, and as a result, patients strenuously 
rebel. It has been found from actual experiment that the minimum 

' Dr. Smith in his work on Foods. 



562 SPECIAL DIETS 

amount of water, aside from that contained in the food, which patients 
can bear is about 15 ounces per diem, which should be taken during the in- 
tervals between meals. For the relief of the insatiable thirst in these cases, 
various measures are employed. It is said that shipwrecked sailors in 
open boats have relieved their thirst by immersing their bodies in salt 
water. Under ordinary conditions, however, the skin is not capable of 
absorbing fluid to any appreciable extent, but, on the other hand, im- 
mersion in water prevents evaporation from the surface of the body, 
which to some extent saves a loss in this direction and thereby satiates 
thirst. Sucking a slice of lemon or drinking water acidulated with a 
few drops of lemon juice or vinegar is said to allay thirst better than 
plain water. Barley and oatmeal waters are occasionally used as thii'st 
quenchers. 

A dry ^iiet has been extensively tried by German clinicians, especially 
in cases of gastric dilatation and in chronic effusion in the joints and 
in peritoneal cavity. Many types of disease are benefited by a temporary 
restriction in the daily amount of fluids consumed, but it is hardly ever 
justifiable to resort to the extreme degree recommended by enthusiastic 
devotees of the dry cure. Thompson says that patients in charge of 
advocates of the dry cure have developed fatal cases of scurvy, as well 
as cases of fever with a temperature running sometimes as high as 104° F. 
A temporary restriction in the quantity of fluid is of dietetic value in 
gastric dilatation, chronic serous effusion, flatulent dyspepsia due to 
ingestion of sweets, coffee and tea in too large amounts. It is also ad- 
visable in some cases of obesity and aneurism to withhold fluids. Con- 
sult the Bellingham and Tufnell Dietary, previously outlined {see page 
547). 

The "dry diet cure," says Albu(32), "is as old as the Greeks, but was 
revived by Schroth in his so-called semmelhur, and has achieved some no- 
toriety in Europe, where several institutes' have been established for its 
practice." The alimentation consists of the consumption of five or six 
dry rolls in the course of a day, while liquids are entirely restricted for 
a period varying from five to six days. The method is so rigorously dry 
that many patients find it difiicult to endure, saying the "cure is worse 
than the disease." Boiled vegetables are allowed for dinner, othenvise 
nothing is given but dried bread. Thirst becomes so extreme after three 
or four days that the patient is allowed hot wine freely as a thirst 
quencher, after which the quantity of fluid is again cut down to two 
glasses a day until the patient is again obliged to have more fluid. Jergu- 
son found Schroth's diet useful in the treatment of plethora and perito- 



THE YOLK CURE 563 

neal effusions. He observed that abstinence from fluid caused great dis- 
tress, so he modified the diet by giving from one-third to two-thirds of a 
pound of lean beef with bread and light red wine. Sweiten found the dry 
diet useful in the treatment of dilatation of the stomach. Albu(32) found 
the dry diet valuable in the dietetic treatment of renal and cardiac dropsy. 
The patient on returning to the accustomed diet must be cautioned to do 
so with great care, taking food only in very small portions, a very little 
at a time. A rapid gain in weight will be noted, which is attributed in 
part to tlie restoration of water to his tissues. Bartels observed an increase 
in urea which was gTcatest immediately after the treatment. The high 
temperature accompanying this method of treatment is explained by the 
fact that but little water is evaporated from the lungs and skin, causing 
the body heat to be retained. As has been suggested, the dry diet cure 
has in many instances been carried to the verge of starvation with extreme 
prostration, fever and fatal cases of scurvy, and has little or nothing to 
recommend it. 

THE YOLK CURE 

Egg yolks as an addition to the diet of the underfed and badly nour- 
ished are often of the greatest service in a variety of forms of faulty 
nutrition. In certain instances in which there is inability to assimilate 
the entire egg, the yolks are of great value. A daily portion of from ten 
to forty yolks may be added to the customary diet. The white of 
the egg consists of a solution of protein shut up in the interior of many 
millions of cells. The protein of the white of egg is called "egg-albumin." 
The yolk is a storehouse of nutriment for the young chick, and conse- 
quently has a very different composition from the white.^ It contains 
much less water and more solids, among the latter being a large proportion 
of fat. The general composition of the white and yolk is contrasted in 
the table on page 351, to which the reader is referred. The palmitin, 
stearin and olein are simply fats such as we have already encountered 
in butter and have the same nutritive value as these. Their presence in 
the form of an emulsion in the yolk makes them more easily digested, 
which renders the yolk particularly suited to individuals whose nutrition 
is below par and who do not do well on ordinary diets. 

Stern (33) gives the following simple dietary for a patient whose nor- 
mal weight should be 140 pounds, but who, owing to debilitation, weighs 
only 110 pounds: 



1 See Analysis of Eggs, Volume T, Chapter XTI, p. 351. 



564 



SPECIAL DIETS 
DIETARY FOR DEBILITY 





Number 
of yolks 


Calories in 
the yolks 


Total num- 
ber of calories 


Breakfast: 

250 c.c. skim milk with 4 yolks; 
30 grams wheat toast 


4 

2 
4 

3 

1 

1 


200 

100 
200 

150 
50 

50 


200 
75 


Forenoon Lunch: 

Cup of coffee, 2 yolks 


100 


Dinner: 

One plate of soup, 4 yolks; 
beef (very lean), 150 gra,ma; 
30 grams wheat toast 


225 

125 

75 


Afternoon Lunch: 

25 c.c. skim milk, 30 c.c. whiskey, 3 
volks 


370 


Supper: 

Porridge of farina or rice, 100 grams; 
1 yolk, skim milk; 
apple sauce, 75 grams 


350 
30 


At Bedtime: 

Night cap (90 c.c. hot water, 10 c.c. 
whiskey, 1 yolk, teaspoonful gran- 
ulated sugar) 


110 








15 


750 


1660 



If it should be deemed expedient to continue this dietary over any 
great period of time, the dishes in which the yolks of eggs are incorporated 
should be varied as much as possibla The great richness of yolk of egg 
in fat and lime salts and in organic compounds of phosphorus and iron 
make it peculiarly valuable as an adjunct to the dietary of infants and 
young children, especially those which are suffering from rickets, mal- 
nutrition, athrepsia, etc., for it is these very compounds which the child 
needs, especially the rickety child. 



MILK CURES 

Kumiss Cure. — Kumiss is an agreeable milk preparation readily 
digested and easily absorbed. It has been made for many hundreds of 
years by tribes of nomadic Tartars in eastern Europe from mare's milk. 
A substitute for it made from cow's milk is called 'Tcephir," but this is not 
genuine kumiss. The general properties of kumiss and kephir are given 
in Volume I, Chapter XII. The so-called kumiss in this country is really 
kephir. Kumiss contains from 1 to 2 per cent of alcohol and effervesces 
on opening the bottle. It is more easily digested and more completely ab- 



MILK CUKES 565 

sorbed than ordinary milk and can be taken in large amounts. It is mildly 
diuretic and gently laxative, and like other milk cures, lessens intestinal 
putrefaction by virtue of the lactic acid which it contains. As a cure, on an 
average from two to four quarts are taken daily, but much larger quantities 
are taken in Kussia at resorts where this method is in vogue. Ordinarily, 
kumiss is ordered in combination with nourishing food of a protein nature, 
carbohydrates, fruits and saccharine foods being specially restricted. If 
diarrhea becomes annoying, it is well to add lime water to the kumiss. In 
Kussia, kumiss is largely employed in the treatment of pulmonary tuber- 
culosis, but its principal value in this country lies in the fact that it is a 
valuable liquid food which many patients can take, with whom plain milk 
and its other modifications disagree. The peculiar qualities of kumiss ren- 
der it a most useful foodstuif in the dietetic treatment of many stomach 
and bowel derangements. In the section dealing with milk will be found 
a complete description of the kephir granules and directions for making 
kephir. The analytical table, page 568, gives the analysis of genuine 
kumiss and kephir from mare's milk and the home-made product from 
cow's milk, as well as Egyptian youghourt and old-fashioned buttermilk. 
It will be observed that the total protein is slightly less in kumiss and 
kephir than in mare's and cow's milk respectively. In kumiss, the fat 
is practically the same as in mare's milk. On the other hand, the per- 
centage of fat in kephir is naturally lower than cow's milk, owing to its 
partial removal before fermentation is begun. 

Considering kephir in the light of what we have already learned as to 
the digestibility of cow's milk, we will easily perceive that the process of 
fermentation must render the latter much more easily digested and ab- 
sorbed than it is in its natural state. The casein of cow's milk is the great 
obstacle to easy digestion, but in kephir it is readily attacked by the di- 
gestive juices ; in fact, it is already partly digested when ready to serve. 
In the light of the facts before us, it is not difficult to understand why 
enormous quantities of kumiss and kephir can be disposed of in the process 
of metabolism without difficulty. We read, for instance, that the healthy 
dweller on the Steppes is capable of consuming from three to four gallons 
of kumiss on a hot summer day, while a debilitated consumptive can take 
with impunity the contents of ten large champagne bottles in twenty-four 
hours (34). 

Kumiss and kephir are practically identical in composition, but in 
each the actual percentages depend somewhat on the duration of the fer- 
mentation process. 

136 



566 SPECIAL DIETS 

COMPOSITION OF SOUR MILK: PERCENTAGES' 



Composition 


Butter- 
milk 


Kephir: 

Goat's 

Milk 


Kumiss: 

Mare's 

Milk 


Egyptian 

Youghourt: 

Cow's 

Milk 


Home-made 

Kumiss: 

Cow'sMilk, 

Sugar, and 

Yeast 


Home-made 
Youghourt: 
Cow's Milk 
and Cul- 
tures of 
BaciUi 


Water 


90.93 

3.01 

1.2 
3.3 
0.0 
0.3 

6!6 


87.33 

2.75 

.46 

.26 

3.08 

2.56 

1.75 

1.25 

.65 

.56 


89.19 
1.73 
.55 \ 

.25 ; 

2.05 
2.25 
1.50 
1.15 
.75 
.26 


47.44 
16.00 

3.76 

16.00 
14.00 

2.25 

2.80 


88.00 
2.56 \ 

.32 / 

.25 
1.25 
3.67 
1.60 

.61 
1.50 

.75 


89.00 


Casein ] 

Albumin 

Peptones J 

Fat 


3 to 3.25 

.25 to .46 
3.0 to 3.5 


Sugar 


1.25 to 2.0 


Alcohol 


.21 


Lactic acid 

Carbonic acid gas 
Salts 


.5 to 1.0 

1.0 to 1.25 

.20 







1 Tliis table is derived from analyses by Atwater, Hammarston, Fleisehmann, 
Hartier, Sharp, Stange, Dujardin-Beaumetz, Wanklyn, Richmond, etc. 

The kumiss cure is suitable for gastric and pulmonary catarrh. Some- 
times it is beneficial in anemia, malnutrition and convalescence from ill- 
ness; mental hebetude and bodily languor and excitement of the sexual 
organs have been observed as sequels of the treatment. 

Matzoon Cure. — Matzoon is a fermented milk product manufactured 
with the aid of a lactic acid ferment obtained from Syria. It is a sour, 
thick substance, more of the consistency of cream than kumiss. Unlike 
kumiss, it does not contain alcohol or carbonic acid gas, and is taken in 
smaller -amounts. It is very agreeable, very readily digested and highly 
nutritious. 

Buttermilk Cure — This cure depends chiefly on two considerations: 
first, the low fat content, which makes it of great value where fat is not 
well borne; second, the presence of lactic acid bacilli. The lactic acid 
bacilli contained in buttermilk seem to possess the properties of driving 
out offending bacteria, especially those causing fermentative and intes- 
tinal conditions, and to reestablish a more or less bacterial flora in the in- 
testinal tract. Of late years whole milk which has been inoculated with 
lactic acid bacilli is frequently substituted for buttermilk, but it should 
be borne in mind that this artificial preparation should not be used in 
diseased conditions due to fat indigestion. 

Of late years buttermilk and similar preparations have been very ex- 
tensively used by the laity in the treatment of a great many different 



MILK CURES 567 

ailments. Buttermilk as an aliment has certain uses in the dietary, and 
the following conditions, in which it is of practical value, are worthy of 
note: 

(a) In conditions where fat is not metabolized, especially in acute or 
chronic fat diarrhea. 

(6) In infants and children suffering from marasmus or general mal- 
nutrition due to fat diarrhea or indigestion. 

(c) In chronic dyspepsia accompanied by constipation. 

(d) In the fermentative diarrheas. 

(e) In typhoid and other debilitating fevers where ordinary milk is 
not well borne. 

(/) As an adjunct to the diet after surgical operations, especially if 
the patient does not bear plain milk well. 

There is no beverage so wholesome as good buttermilk fresh from the 
churn. Its nutritive value is considerable, an ordinary glassful yielding 
about as much nourishment as two ounces of bread. It is chiefly worthy 
of notice as being an economical source of protein. In respect to this con- 
stituent, it is not one whit inferior to ordinary milk, and yet buttermilk 
in agricultural districts is usually fed to pigs. There can be no question 
that this is a deplorable waste of a very valuable food. When used in 
large quantities, buttermilk possesses diuretic properties which may be a 
slight disadvantage in health, but would rather enhance its value than 
otherwise in many diseased conditions. The chief point in which butter- 
milk differs from whole milk is its poverty in fat. In this respect it re- 
sembles skim milk. The loss of milk sugar from the formation of lactic 
acid is so small as to be of no significance. The ease with which butter- 
milk can be digested has led to its being recommended as a food for in- 
fants (35). 

Sour Milk Cure. — Many changes take place in milk during the process 
of souring. The sugars to a large extent are replaced by- lactic acid, alco- 
hol and carbonic acid gas ; the casein is partly broken down and precipi- 
tated to a very fine division and partly predigested while the fats and salts 
remain practically unchanged. 

The analyses on page 568 give a pretty fair summary of the changes 
that occur during the process of souring. 

When the fermentation process of kumiss and kephir is allowed to go 
for only twelve hours, it is slightly sour and somewhat resembles milk in 
taste and appearance. When fermented for twenty-four hours, some of 
the casein will be dissolved, and as a result, the kumiss will be thinner 
but sourer. If the fermentation process is allowed to continue another 



568 



SPECIAL DIETS 



ANALYSES OF CHANGES OCCURRING IN THE FERMENTATION 

OF MILK 



Lactic 

Acid, 

Per cent 



Kumiss (1) 

Kephir (2) 

Mare's Milk (3) 
Cow's Milk (4) . 
Buttermilk (5).. 



Protein, 


Sugar, 


Fat, 


Salts, 


Alcohol, 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


2.2 


L5 


2.1 


0.9 


1.7 


3.1 


1.6 


2.0 


0.8 


2.1 


2.6 


5.5 


2.5 


0.5 




3.3 


4.8 


3.6 


0.7 




3.8 


3.3 


1.2 


0.6 





0.9 
0.8 



0.3 



day, it will be still thinner and sourer, and more thoroughly charged with 
carbonic acid gas. The percentage of alcohol varies from 1.5 at the end 
of 12 hours to as much as 3.0 per cent at the end of 36 hours. 

The sour milk cure is extensively used in Turkey, Servia, Bulgaria 
and neighboring countries. The Bacterium caucasicus, or Bulgarian 
bacillus, is the most active of the lactic acid ferments, and in these coun- 
tries it is extensively used to sour milk for a beverage. This Bacillus bul- 
garicus when introduced into the intestinal tract in large numbers will 
check the growth of oflFending bacteria and greatly lessen the number of 
other organisms. 

During recent years, a valuable method of treatment by means of 
soured milk and other methods of administering selected lactic germs has 
been brought to the notice of the profession by the distinguished French 
bacteriologist, Eli Metchnikoff, of the Pasteur Institute, Paris. The 
Metchnikoff method has of late years become a fashionable craze, and, as 
is usual when a new therapeutic method is introduced, exaggerated claims 
have been made in its favor. Wliile our knowledge of this method of 
treatment is by no means complete, yet clinical experience has abun- 
dantly proven that it is a real advance in trophotherapeutics, and we will 
therefore give a short account of it as laid down by Metchnikoff. It is 
unnecessary to state here that this food exerts an influence on the normal 
bacterial content present in the intestinal canal. 

This dependence of intestinal microbial gnrowths on the nature of food is due 
to the fact that certain haeilli secrete substances which render the soil unsuitable 
for others, so that by selecting an oi^anism which is innocuous to human beings, 
we are enabled to destroy active germs productive of injurious effects. In order 
to attain this, we must secure, if possible, an antiseptic mechanism which, once 
started, will maintain its effect, and this can only be accomplished by the services 
of a living organized ferment. It is well known that lactic acid is a powerful 
anti-putrefactive agent. When milk turns sour, that is to say, when the milk 



MILK CURES 569 

sugar has undergone lactic fermentation with the formation of lactic acid, it can 
then resist putrefaction for a long time. 

The knowledge of the action of lactic acid in souring milk induced 
Metchnikoif to employ cultures of the lactic germs in order to produce 
nascent lactic acid just where its action is most needed. The culture prod- 
uct bj which these results were secured is known as "lacto-bacilline." 

During the ingestion of meals, fresh microorganisms attached to un- 
cooked food find their way into the intestinal tract, and these invaders 
intensify the effect of preexisting colonies in inducing putrefaction of the 
intestinal contents and noxious fermentations, particularly butyric acid 
fermentation. The lactic acid content in sour milk can prevent butyric fer- 
mentation and putrefaction, both of which are capable of causing various 
disorders in the human organism, and sour milk finds its greatest efficacy 
in hindering decomposition changes in the alimentary canal. In endeav- 
oring to combat intestinal putrefaction, instead of prescribing lactic acid, 
which is oxidized or excreted by the kidneys, it is better to introduce the 
fresh living lactic germs into the digestive tract, either in the form of but- 
termilk, lacto-bacilline powder, tablets or soured milk. The lactic germs 
on reaching the intestines multiply with great rapidity, and, depending 
upon the supply of sugar, which is necessary for their maintenance, they 
set free lactic acid that permeates the intestinal contents, inhibiting putre- 
faction and all irregular fermentation. Milk, in order to undergo thor- 
ough lactic acid fermentation, must have planted in it the organized fer- 
ments — the living microbes — cultures of the Bulgarian bacillus, which 
may be added in the form of lacto-bacilline powder or tablets, which is a 
most active producer of lactic acid, coagulating milk within a few hours 
and curdling it without the assistance of any other organism. When milk 
is treated by this method a very large proportion of the casein is rendered 
soluble and a still greater percentage of the phosphate of lime has its solu- 
bility similarly increased. 

Lactic acid therapy is indicated in certain cases of chronic intestinal 
catarrh, pernicious anemia, subacute and chronic nephritis, rheumatism, 
gout and diabetes. This treatment is especially indicated and of great 
value in cases of intestinal toxemia, intestinal intoxication resulting from 
the abnormal putrefaction of proteins,; but it is of little value in putre- 
factive conditions resulting from carbohydrate fermentation. 

Milk Cure. — The milk cure, or an exclusive milk diet, has been 
recommended for various diseased conditions. It is carried out systemat- 
ically at certain health resorts in different countries, more especially in 
Switzerland and Germany. The cure consists of the consumption of ordi- 



570 SPECIAL DIETS 

nary milk in its pure, undiluted, uncooked condition. To obtain the best 
results, the milk should be fresh and warm, just as it is drawn from the 
cow, since in this condition it is almost entirely free from bacteria and 
contains the greatest proportion of enzymes, and possesses the highest bac- 
tericidal capacity. The milk cure is exceedingly ancient and is of great 
value in the treatment of tuberculosis, nervous disorders and many condi- 
tions of debility and malnutrition. Its peculiar value lies in that milk 
is easily digested, comparatively unirritating, and, when used exclusively, 
tends to lessen abnormal fermentation in the intestinal tract. It is the 
food par excellence for the infant, as it supplies the precise need for 
growth and development. 

The application of the milk cure is carried out with the best results 
in rural districts or places where cattle are kept for the purpose. The 
milk should be raw or at a temperature of the atmosphere, and, whenever 
possible, it should be conveyed direct from the cow to the patient in the 
shortest possible time to avoid the loss of enz\Tnes and anti-bodies con- 
tained in it. Even in the winter months, it should not be heated above 
140° F. because lecithin, the vitaminea, and other important bodies are 
destroyed by a temperature beyond this degree. The vitamines contained 
in milk are of the greatest importance. This subject has already been 
covered in the section dealing with milk in the chapters on Animal Foods, 
to which the reader is referred.* Too much emphasis cannot be laid on 
the fact that milk should be taken raw and as soon after being drawn 
from the cow as circumstances will permit. It should not be forgotten 
that the bactericidal power of milk diminishes very rapidly after it is 
drawn, and a few hours after milking it is practically nil. It is true that 
boiling milk destroys bacteria, and until a few years ago it was customary 
to recommend that all milk should be boiled for two or three minutes 
before being ingested. In the light of recent knowledge, it is considered 
that pure and wholesome milk should not be subjected to heat, for, as just 
pointed out, a temperature beyond 140° F. destroys lecithin and other 
important bodies, including the vitamines. 

In order to supply the economy with sufficient protein to yield the 
requisite amount of energy, a considerable quantity of milk must be con- 
sumed. Good whole milk of average quality has a heat value of 325 calo- 
ries per pint. If milk is taken in large quantities, digestive derangements 
are liable to occur from the formation of large curds in the stomach ; if 
these pass into the small intestines they are apt to be matted and as a 



1 .Sfrr Vohime I, Chapter XIT ; Volume II, Chapter TX. 



MILK CUKES 571 

result offer much resistance to the digestive enzymes and may cause diar- 
rhea, on the one hand, or constipation with dry feces on the other. 

When milk is used as the only article of diet, it should be given at 
first in quantities not to exceed half a glass every second hour ; after two 
or three days two-thirds of a glass may be given at a time, and later, a 
whole glass or eight ounces. The milk should be drunk very slowly, in fact 
it should be sipped ; it should be taken at regular intervals during the day 
and two or three times at night. As many as twelve glasses, eight ounces 
each, should be prescribed during the twenty-four hours. Constipation 
is not an unfavorable indication when taking the milk cure, but means 
that the milk is well digested and well absorbed. It can be counteracted 
by mild laxatives. On the other hand, vomiting and diarrhea indicate 
digestive disturbances and malassimilation. At the beginning of the milk 
cure, patients often lose flesh, but when taking the maximum quantity, 
they hold their own, or may even gain in flesh. Milk is one of the most 
digestible foods. Three liters, equal to about five pints, should be taken 
daily. This amount would supply an adult with sufficient energy for the 
performance of light work, yielding about 2,050 calories, which is neces- 
sary for the maintenance of nitrogen equilibrium. When less than this 
quantity is consumed, most people show loss of nitrogen. 

The milk cure is recommended by physicians for several reasons: 
(a) , to maintain the nitrogen balance; (6) to sustain the patient's 
strength; (c) to produce gain in body weight, and (d) sometimes to 
unload the system of superfluous weight, water, purins, complex amides, 
extractive nitrogenous matter, etc., which are considered deleterious to 
health. The object of Weir Mitchell's treatment(36) of forced feeding 
is to cause a gain of protein for the benefit of enfeebled, nervous and mus- 
cular systems, which is supplied from a milk diet slowly increasing from 
two to as much as five pints of milk by the end of the eighth day. This 
subject has already been considered in the present chapter (page 549). 

When a milk cure is prescribed, nothing but milk is allowed for the 
first two weeks, unless it becomes necessary to alter ^the flavor or modify 
the constituents of milk, The flavor may be varied by adding small quan- 
tities of salt, celery salt, burnt sugar or extract of malt. If there is a 
tendency to form large curds, this may be prevented by the addition of 
lime water, barley water, oatmeal water or malt extract. If there is a 
tendency to nausea, it may be prevented by the above modifications. If 
flatulence becomes annoying, it can be prevented by the addition of Vichy 
water, a little salt or bicarbonate of soda. A patient on a strict milk diet 
may complain of a thick, white-yellowish pasty coat on the tongue, and 



572 SPECIAL DIETS 

a disagreeable mawkish taste in the mouth. As previously stated, the 
beginning of the milk cure is in reality a period of starvation or under- 
feeding, as a patient in bed at absolute rest requires 1,600 calories of 
energy daily, which would require the ingestion of four pints of milk. 
Underfeeding may cause restlessness and insomnia. Casein indigestion 
from excess of fat or want of freshness in the milk may lead to diarrhea. 
The urine is increased in quantity, while the excretion of uric acid and 
purin bodies is lessened ; but the quantity of urea is in proportion to the 
digested casein, and the urine ofttimes has a greenish tinge. Indican and 
similar compounds disappear from the urine. As the quantity of milk 
consumed increases, the system becomes satisfied, insomnia complained of 
at the beginning is replaced by drowsiness, which is a hopeful sign when 
the tongue is clear and the pulse good. At the beginning of the third 
week, or after, the patient should be gaining in flesh, the appetite will 
return, and a desire for solid food will be increased. In another fort- 
night a little fish or fowl may be allowed in the middle of the day, and 
at the end of one month a gradual return to the ordinary diet is advised. 
Skim Milk Cure. — The skim milk cure is employed in the dietetic 
treatment of valvular disease, nephritis, gout, obesity, chronic bronchitis 
and emphysema. It must not be overlooked that skim milk as an aliment 
only partially supplies the energy expended by the body, that it in reality 
is a system of underfeeding, and where it is the only aliment, its continued 
use will reduce the strength, weight and vitality of the patient. One 
author * reports 200 cases in which he employed skim milk as a diet for 
unloading the system generally, more especially the vascular system. AVhen 
this method of treatment is instituted, it is recommended that the quantity 
allowed should be from one-fourth to one-half a pint of skim milk three 
or four times a day, sipped slowly. The milk should be fresh and ob- 
tained twice daily. Donkin is quoted as having had considerable experi- 
ence in the treatment of dise^ise by the skim milk diet and highly recom- 
mends it in diabetes, beginning with four pints daily and increasing some- 
times to a maximuip of twelve pints. T^enhartz has systematically em- 
ployed the skim milk diet for many years past in the treatment of heart 
disease with failure from compensation. Under his method, the patient 
is placed in bed absolutely at rest for the first five days and is allowed 
seven ounces of milk four times a day. During the next six days he is 
allowed one egg, some zwieback in addition to his daily allowance of milk, 
and a little later some minced meat and vegetables are added, so that 



1 Carcll, in 1865, quoted by Tibbies. 



MILK CUKES 573 

about the twelfth day there is a gradual return to a full mixed diet. Len- 
hartz claims that the failure of relief with this treatment is to be regarded 
as a sign of advanced degeneration of the cardiac tissue. 

Whey Cure. — The whey cure has been extensively used at the various 
springs and baths in the mountainous districts of Germany and Switzer- 
land, notably Ems and Reichenhall and those of the alkaline waters, which 
are frequently mingled with the whey and drunk either warm or cold. 
The treatment, like that of the dry diet previously described, is rigorous 
and consists in confining the patient's daily alimentation largely to the use 
of twenty or more ounces per diem of fresh milk whey. 

The principles of this method of treatment are quite similar to those 
of the milk cure, but in whey the casein of the milk has been artificially 
removed by the precipitation of casein by rennin, as in cheese making. 
Whey is a thin semi-transparent liquid of a pleasing sweetish taste. Ac- 
cording to Atwater it has the following percentage composition : 

Per cent 

Protein 1 to 1.25 

(Casein, Albumin) 

Fat 0.3 to 0.5 

Sugar 3.5 to 5.0 

Mineral matter 0.103 

Lactic acid 0.33 

Fuel value, 145 calories per pint. 

Whey is a nutritious beverage useful in the dietetic treatment of dis- 
ease, particularly as a diluent of cow's milk for feeding infants. It is 
easily digested, is bland and unirritating to the stomach, but it may cause 
flatulence and acidity in people who are subject to these troubles. 

By referring to the section dealing with milk in the chapter on Animal 
Foods,^ a full and explicit consideration of this subject will be found. 
The whey cure is advocated in some cases of chronic indigestion and ab- 
dominal plethora. It is also used in the treatment of Bright's disease and 
.chronic catarrhal conditions of the alimentary canal. Thompson (37) rec- 
ommends it particularly for chronic dyspepsia and chronic irritable cough 
accompanying catarrh of the respiratory mucous membranes. In abdom- 
inal plethora as much as eight to ten tumblerfuls may be added daily to 
a diet of fruit and vegetables. It is often combined with the grape diet, 
described on page 546. When taken in large amounts, whey has a tend- 
ency to produce diarrhea. 

1 See Volume I, Chapter XII, p. 307. 



574: SPECIAL DIETS 

Karell Diet or "Milk Cure." ^ — Karell recommends this treatment of 
particular value in the dietotherapy of cardiac, renal and hepatic dropsies ; 
in disorders of the liver; in disturbances of the gastro-intestinal tract, 
more particularly those associated with defective nutrition, viz., chronic 
indigestion, chronic colitis and vagotonia; and in functional nervous con- 
ditions accompanied by lowered nutrition. He also advocates the admin- 
istration of the *'milk cure" in organic disease of the heart and circulatory 
system, in the rheumatic and gouty diathesis and in advanced renal dis- 
orders. 

Soon after publishing his views on this subject in 1866(37) Russian 
physicians made extensive use of his method, while the German profes- 
sion accepted the Karell method with more tardiness, but Wier Mitchel 
in this country became an enthusiastic advocate of the Karell cure and 
reported most favorable results. The cure itself is exceedingly simple 
and offers no difficulty in its employment, yet it has not attained the 
popularity with the profession which its great usefulness portends. It 
must be admitted, however, that the patient may find the dietary irksome 
and after a time will tire of the monotony without the constant encour- 
agement of a tactful physician and a prepossessing nurse. 

The patient should be put to bed and isolated from friends and visitors 
as recommended by Wier Mitchel in his "rest cure." The alimentary 
canal should be kept open with salines, castor oil or an enemata. Karell 
allows at the beginning, 200 c.c. of raw or boiled milk taken either warm 
or cold as the patient may prefer at 8 a.m., 12 m., 4 p.m., and 8 p.m. This 
plan he particularly advises in cases with dropsy and disorders of the 
gastro-intestinal tract. Wier MitchePs plan of administering the "milk 
cure" (see page 550) may, in some cases, be found more agreeable to the 
patient. If the thirst is intense, he allows water to rinse the mouth and 
if the pangs of hunger are annoying he permits a small amount of milk 
toast or zwieback with each glass of milk. This indulgence may be 
permitted until the edema begins to subside, after which the dietary may 
be cautiously increased; but ordinarily a week or ten days will elapse 
before the patient has lost sufficient fluid to justify an increase in the 
dietary. 

When the physician, guided by the patient's condition, deems it advis- 
able to augment the "milk cure" a soft-boiled egg, without anything else, 
may be ordered at 10 a.m., and zwieback at 6 p.m., if this seems to go 
well with the patient, then the dietary may be cautiously increased by 
allowing small amounts of a salt poor foods (see pages 345 to 347), 



» See Karell cure, page 339, Vol. III. 



MILK CURES 575 

until the patient is receiving a suitable dietary for his condition. The 
foods recommended are meats, fresh eggs, fresh-water fish, etc., as out- 
lined on page 346. During this period of treatment usually extending 
over two or four weeks after the disappearance of the edema the fluid 
intake should not exceed 800 c.c. 

By closely adhering to this plan of treatment some very extraordinary 
cures or improvements have been reported. The patient's general condi- 
tion is very much ameliorated with abatement of the nausea and vomiting 
with a disappearance of insomnia, and with marked improvement of the 
distressing dyspnea. If heart symptoms prevail, digitalis is recommended 
as may be necessary, but the condition of the heart usually improves and 
the blood pressure becomes lower and the excretion of urine becomes 
greater in volume. The chloride output is soon noted to exceed the in- 
take, and loss in weight may be surprisingly great — Goodman reports a 
loss of 30 pounds in three days and another author records a loss of 54 
pounds in ten days. 

The Karell cure is not without value from a prognostic viewpoint. 
Wittich considers a chloride equilibrium, persistence of edema, stationary 
or diminishing urine excretion of grave import. He regards a positive 
chloride equilibrium a grave prognostic symptom. He warns against the 
administration of the "cure" when symptoms of uremia are present. 
When there is a return of salt retention, he advises the "cure" to be 
repeated before there is a break in compensation. 

In the other disorders mentioned above, viz., gastric and intestinal 
disturbances associated with defective nutrition, and in functional nervous 
conditions in which nutrition is greatly lowered, the Wier Mitchel "milk 
and rest cure" combined will be found to be of a great trophotherapeutic 
value (see pages 549, 550, and 551). 

REFERENCES 

1. HuPE, Ferdinand. Modern Vegetarianisms, Berlin, 1900. 
Albu, Albert. Die Vegetarische Diat, Leipzig, 1902. 

2. PoRPHYRE. (Really named Malk, born Tyre, in 233 a.d.j taught 

philosophy at Rome, where he died in 304. ) Published Life of 
Pythagoras. 

3. TiBBLES, William. Food in Health and Disease. 

4. Neumann, W. Essays on Diet, p. 64. 

5. Hutchison. Food and Dietetics, p. 109. 

6. Caultey, Edmund. Sutherland's System of Diet and Dietetics. 

7. Waylen. Brit. Med. J., 1900, vol. i, p. 37. 



576 REFERENCES 

8. Jaffa, M. E. U. S. Dept. of Agric. Exper. Sta. Bull. No. 132. 

9. Wait. U. S. Dept, of Agric, Bull. No. 187. 

10. RoTCH, T. Morgan. Practical Pediatrics. 

11. Spencer, Herbert. Education, Intellectual, Physical and Moral, 

p. 156. ■ 

12. Salisbury. The relation of Alimentation to Disease, New York, 

1895. 

13. Parkes. Lancet, 1874. 

14. Caultey, Edmund. Sutherland's System of Diet and Dietetics. 

15. Watson. Food and Feeding. 

16. Hericourt. Lancet, 1911, vol. i, p. 22. 

17. RicHET and Hericourt. Ibid., 1889. 

18. Jaffa. TJ. S. Dept. of Agric. Bull. No. 107. 

19. Chambers, King. Lectures Chiefly Clinical, Lecture xxiv. 

20. Mitchell, Weib. Fiat and Blood, Philadelphia. 

21. Dukes, Clement. Diet in Training for School Games. 

22. Langworthy and Beale. Starr's Agricultural Experiment Sta- 

tion, Ninth Annual Report, 1896, part ii, chapter xi. 

23. Davis. Food in Health and Disease. 

24. Atwateb and Bryant. Dietary Studies of University Boat Crews. 

25. . TJ. S. Dept. of Agric. Bull. No. 75. 

26. Thompson, W. Gilman. Practical Dietetics, p. 726. 

27. At water and Bryant. U. S. Dept. of Agric. Bull. No. 75. 

28. Yeo, I. BuRNEY. Food in Health and Disease, p. 281. 

29. ZuNTz. U. S. Dept of Agric. Exper. Sta. Rec, vol. vii, pp. 538- 

550. 

30. Stockman and Macadam. Jour. Phys., 1897, vol. xxii, p. 69. 

31. Friedenwald and Ruhrah. Diet in Health and Disease. 

32. Albu. Dentsch. med. Wochenschr., 1907. 

33. Stern. Med. Rec, Dec 31, 1904. 

34. Strange. (On Kumiss Cures). Zeimssen's Hand Book of Gen- 

eral Therapeutics. 

35. Tibblks, William. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 6, 1902. 

36. Mitchell, Weir. Treatment, Philadelphia, 

37. Karell, Phillip. Archives General de Medicine, viii, p. 513, 1866. 

38. Thompson^ W. Gilman. Practical Dietetics, pub. by D. Appleton 

&Co. 



CHAPTER XVII 
PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

WITH 

Directions for Their Preparation 



General Considerations; Beverages; Peptonized and Predigested Foods; Beef 
Teas; Meat Juices; Broths; Bouillon; Vegetable Soups; Meat Soups; 
Farinaceous Foods; Bread; Cereal Foods; Gruels; Eggs; Fish; Poultry; 
Meats; Vegetables; Purees; Fruits; Nuts; Jellies; Custards; Puddings; 
Ice Cream; Recipes for Diabetic Foods. 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

In the chapter on the Hygiene of Eating, the necessity for making 
foods as palatable and as attractive as possible was emphasized. The 
appetizing preparation of food for the sick is jnst as important as the 
careful compounding of a prescription containing medication. Convales- 
cent patients, as well as patients ill with gastric disturbances, can easily 
be nauseated by the repugnant appearance of a dish, while, on the other 
hand, the appetite may be stimulated by food of an inviting attractive 
appearance. The tray on which it is served should be covered with pure 
white linen without a crease or wrinkle, the best that the home of the 
patient can afford. The silver should be spotless ; the china, the daintiest, 
and the glassware, the clearest; all arranged neatly and conveniently. 
This arrangement of the tray is of the utmost importance, and the 
slightest departure from regularity and immaculate cleanliness should 
be avoided. 

Foods should never be served too hot, lest the patient be tempted to 
partake of it in that condition in spite of the physician's or nurse's warn- 
ing. On the other hand, it should not be served too cold. For this reason 
it is advisable to serve such dishes as are liable to cool off rapidly in ves- 

577 



578 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

sels of a double bottom, the interspace being filled with hot water. Condi- 
ments have no place in the dietary of the invalid or convalescent. Spices, 
however, may be used with caution, but only with permission of the 
physician. A tray with food should always be carried into the sick-room 
covered with a clean napkin or tray cover. When the dietary ordered is 
limited in variety, the patient is often gratified by having his food served 
in courses, and will eat more than if given everything at once. A patient 
suffering with bowel disorder should never be offered food until some time 
has elapsed after using the bed-pan. Needless to state, the diet of a 
patient should be under the supervision of the physician and his direc- 
tions followed implicitly, for much unnecessary suffering and even death 
has followed the ingestion of forbidden food. 

BEVERAGES 
PLAIN BEVERAGES 
Lime Water — Place a handful of fresh unslaked lime in an earthen 
jar containing hot water ; stir, pour off, and throw away the water as soon 
as it has settled. This first water contains the soluble potash salts which 
may be present in the lime. Add more water ; allow it to settle, then de- 
cant the clear fluid and bottle it. Water may again be added to the lime, 
and the mixture covered and allowed to stand to be decanted as needed. 

Apple Water. — 

Water (boiling) 1 cupful 250 c.c. 

Apples 2 mashed baked 150 gm 144 calories 

Pour the boiling water over the apples ; cool, strain and sweeten. Serve 
with shaved ice if desired. 

Tamarind Water 

Boiling water 1 cupful 250 c.c. 

Preserved tamarinds 1 tablespoonful 20 grams 100 calorics 

Pour the boiling water over the preserved tamarinds; allow this to 
stand until cool, then strain and serve with shaved ice. 

Gnrrant Juice (Fitch). — 

Currant juice 1 ounce 30 c.c 25 calories 

or 

r'urrant jelly 1 tablespoonful 35 grams 113 " 

Boiling water 1 cupful 250 c.c. 

Over the currant jelly pour the boiling water (use cold water with 
the juice) and sweeten to taste. 



BEVERAGES 579 

Lemonade No. 1 (Thompson). — 

Lemon juice 3 tablespoonfuls 45 c.c. 

Sugar 3 " 30 grams 123 calories 

Cold water 1 cupful (6 ounces) 250 c.c. 

To the juice of the lemon add the sugar and the cold water. Serve 
with cracked or shaved ice if desired. 

Lemonade No. 2 (Pavj). — • 

Rind of lemon 1 3 grams. 

Boiling water 1 pint 480 c.c. 

Sugar 1 ounce 30 grams 114 calories 

Pare the rind from the lemon, cut the lemon into slices, and place both 
in a pitcher with the sugar. Over this pour the boiling water and let it 
stand until cool. Strain and serve with cracked ice. 

Effervescent Lemonade — This may be made by using a carbonated 
water or by adding half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or potash to 
a glassful of either of the foregoing lemonades. 

Albuminized Lemonade (Watson). — 

Water 1 cupful 250 c.c. 

Lemon juice 2 teaspoonfuls 30 " 

Sugar 2 " 20 grams 82 calories 

Egg 1 white 32 « 30 « 

Shake all the aboA^e ingredients together. Serve at once. 

Orangeade (Ruhrah). — 

Rind of orange 1 3 grams. 

Boiling water 1 cupful 250 c.c. • 

Juice of orange 1 45 " 60 calories 

Sugar 1 tablespoonful 20 grams 82 " 

Cut the rind from the orange ; over this pour the boiling water, then 
add the juice of the orange and, the sugar; cool, strain and serve with 
shaved ice if desired. If this is too sweet, a teaspoonful of lemon juice 
may be added. 

Imperial Drink (Gautier). — 

Cream of tartar 1 teaspoonful 4 grams. 

Boiling water 1 pint 480 c.c. 

Juice of lemon 3^ 15 " 

Add the cream of tartar to the water. Into this squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon, or more if desired, sweeten to taste and serve cold. This 
drink is most useful in fevers and in nephritis. 



580 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Barley Water (Caultej)(l). — 

Thin: Put a teaspoonful of prepared or pearl barley, previously 
washed in cold water, into a jug; pour half a pint of boiling water on it, 
and add a pinch of salt. Stand it by the fire for an hour, stirring occa- 
sionally, and then strain through fine muslin. Similar thin cereal decoc- 
tions may be made from rice, arrowroot or oatmeal. 

Thick: Put a heaping tablespoonful of washed, prepared or pearl bar- 
ley into a clean saucepan, and add a quart of water and a pinch of salt. 
Boil slowly until it has evaporated down to about two-thirds of a quart, 
and strain. It may be flavored as desired. The addition of a little lemon 
peel, while boiling, is best. 

The composition of barley water is 0.09 per cient protein, 0.05 per 
cent fat, 1.6 per cent carbohydrate. It furnishes 14 calories to 100 c.c. 

Toast Water (Caultey). — Pour a pint of boiling water over two or 
three slices of well-toasted bread. Let it stand until cool ; strain. 

Linseed Tea (Yeo). — 

Water 1 pint 480 c.c. 

Linseed 2 tablespoonfuls 60 ^ams 60 calories 

Juice of lemon ^ 15 c.c. 

Bruised licorice root (or a 

piece of licorice the size of a 

filbert) J^ ounce Sgrams 10 " 

To the water add the linseed, the juice of the lemon, the licorice root, 
and rock-candy to taste. Boil for one and one-half hours and strain. 

Orgeat (Pavy). — 

Sweet Almonds 2 ounces 32 grams 200 calories 

Almond seeds (bitter) 4 1 gram. 

Orange-flower water a little 30 c.c. 

Milk Ipint 480 « 350 • 

Water 1 • 480 « 

Blanch the sweet almonds and bitter almond seeds. Add the orange- 
flower water and pound into a paste. Rub this with the milk, diluted 
with the water, until it forms an emulsion. Strain and sweeten with 
sugar. (A demulcent and nutritive drink.) 

NUTRITIOUS BEVERAGES 
Albumin Water (Friedenwald and Ruhrah). — 

Egg 1 ounce 50 grams 80 calories 

Water 6 ounces 180 c.c 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 10 grams 41 " 

Lemon juice 1 * 4 c.c 



BEVERAGES 681 

Beat the white of the egg until very light and strain through a clean 
napkin. Add the water. If intended for an infant, a pinch of salt may 
be added. The sugar and lemon juice, or sherry wine, may be added to 
enhance its palatableness. This drink may also conveniently be made by 
placing all the ingTcdients in a lemonade shaker, shaking until thoroughly 
mixed and then straining. Serve cold. 

Egg Albumin Water (Watson). — Take the white of an egg (30 calo- 
ries) and to it add twice its own volume of water and strain through 
muslin. This gives about three ounces of a clear solution, containing as 
much protein as is found in the average sample of commercial beef juice. 
This fluid, added to home-made beef tea, makes a nutritive solution almost 
indistinguishable from beef juice and at a fraction of the cost. 

Egg Albumin Water (Caultey). — Take the white of a fresh egg (30 
calories) and cut it in numerous directions with scissors. Shake it up in 
a flask with a pinch of salt and six ounces of cold water. Strain through 
muslin. 

It can be made with thin barley water, and cream or sugar added. 

Egg Broth (Drexel Institute). — 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 grams 80 calories 

Sugar }/2 teaspoonful 5 " 20 " 

Salt a pinch 1 " 

Hot milk 1 glass 250 c.c 180 « 

Beat up the egg, and add to it the sugar and a pinch of salt ; over this 
pour the milk and serve immediately. Hot water, broth, soup, or tea may 
be iised in place of milk. 

Egg Cordial. — 

Egg 1 white 32 grams 30 calories 

Cream 1 tablespoonful 50 " 54 « 

Sugar }4 " 20 « 82 " 

Brandy 1 " 16 c.c 65 « 

Beat up the white of the egg until light; add the cream and beat up 
together ; then add the sugar and the brandy. 

Caudle 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 grams 80 calories 

Sherry wine 1 wineglassful 30 c.c 38 " 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 10 grams 41 " 

Gruel barley 3^ pint 120 c.c 130 « 

Beat up the egg to a froth, add the wine, and sweeten with the sugar ; 
if desired, flavor with lemon peel. Stir this mixture into the gruel, over 
this grate a little nutmeg, and serve with hot toast. 

137 



582 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Cocoa with Milk 

Cocoa 1 rounding teaspoonful. . 4 grams 50 calories 

Milk-sugar 2 ounces 60 " 240 

Milk 4 " 120 c.c 80 

Cream 2 « 60 « 120 

Mix the sugar and cocoa; cook in the milk until dissolved. Serve 
with the cream. 

Cocoa. — 

Cocoa 1 heaping teaspoonful. . . 4 grams 50 calories 

Milk-sugar 2 ounces 60 240 « 

Water J^ cup (4 ounces) 125 c.c. 

Cream 3 ounces 90 « 180 " 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the water, and boil for four or five 
minutes. Then add the cream, or use less and serve with whipped cream. 

Coffee. — 

Milk-sugar 2 ounces 60 grams 200 calories 

Strong coffee 4-5 " 120-150 grams. • 

Cream 2 " 60 c.c 120 " 

Milk-sugar may be used likewise to sweeten tea, which may be served 
with or without cream. 

Almond Milk (Wegele).— 

Almonds, sweet 1 pound 453 . 5 grams. . . . 3,030 calories 

bitter 2 pounds 1,000 " ....6,060 " 

Milk 8 ounces 250 c.c 165 " 

Blanch the almonds that have been soaked in cold water for twenty- 
four hours. This is done by pouring boiling water over them, when, 
after a few minutes, they can easily be pressed out of their hulls. Grind 
the almonds in a mill or pound them in a mortar; mix with a half-pint 
of warm milk or water, and allow the mixture to stand two hours, after 
which strain through a cloth, pressing the juice out well Thirty grams 
of almonds yield 200 calories of heat; 250 grams of milk yield 170 
calories. 

Lemon Whey. — ' 

Lemon juice 3 tablespoonfuls 45 c.c. 

Milk sugar 2-4 ounces 50-100 grams 200-400 calories 

Kumiss No. 1 (Drexel Institute). — 

Skim milk 1 quart 1,000 c.c 340 calories 

Cake of yeast '/* 3 grams. 

Sugar 2 tablespoonfuls 80 " 328 * 



BEVERAGES 583 

Heat the milk. Dissolve the jeast in a little water and mix it with the 
sugar and lukewarm milk. Pour the mixture into strong bottles, stopper 
them tightly with new corks, and tie down the corks with stout twine. 
Shake the bottles well and place in a refrigerator. This will allow the 
mixture to ferment slowly. After three days lay the bottles on their sides, 
turning them occasionally. Five days are required to complete the fer- 
mentation ; the kumiss is then at its best. 

Kumiss No. 2 (Holt).— 

Fresh milk 1 quart 1,000 cc 650 calories 

Sugar ■ 3^ ounce 15 grams 62 " 

Yeast cake piece 3 " 

Pour into wired bottles the fresh milk, sugar and fresh yeast cake 
(half an inch square), and keep at a temperature between 60° and 70° F. 
for one week, shaking five or six times a day ; then put upon ice. 

Further directions for preparing kumiss and kephir with kefilac tablets 
will be found in the section on Milk, in the chapter on Animal Foods 
(Volume I, Chapter XII, page 338). For the analytical value, see Vol- 
ume II, Chapter XVII, pages 566-568. 

Milk Mixture (A. V. Meigs). — 

Cream 2 pints 1,000 cc 1,820 calories 

Milk Ipint 500 «..: 325 " 

Lime Water 2 pints 1,000 « 

Sugar water 3 " 1,500 " 512 " 

For the sugar water use seventeen and three-fourths drams of milk 
sugar to a pint of water. 

Milk and Cinnamon Drink (Ringer). — 

Add a small amount of cinnamon to the desired quantity of milk and 
boil it. Sweeten with sugar and add brandy if desired. 

Albuminized Milk 

Milk 1 cupful 250 cc 170 calories 

Lime water 1 tablespoonful 15 " 

Egg 1 white 32 grams 30 " 

Shake in a covered jar or lemonade shaker the milk, lime water and 
white of the egg. Sweeten, flavor as desired, and serve at once. 

Irish Moss and Milk. — 

Irish moss 1 tablespoonfuls .... 28 grams. 

Milk 1 cupful 250 cc 170 calories 



584 PEEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVEKAGES AND FOODS 

Soak the Irish moss for five minutes and wash thoroughly in cold 
water. Add the milk and soak for half an hour; then heat slowly, stir- 
ring constantly, and boil for ten minutes, preferably in a double boiler; 
strain, and pour into cups to cool. This may be served while hot, and 
may be rendered more nutritious by the addition of the white of an egg 
stirred into it just before serving. 

Egg and Buttermilk Mixture — 

Egg 1 white 32 grams 30 calories 

Cream 2 ounces 80 « 216 " 

Buttermilk 1 glass 250 c.c 78 " 

Beat the egg and cream lightly. Pour into a glass and fill with fresh 
buttermilk. Stir well. 

Milk and Other Diluents — Milk may be diluted with advantage in 
many cases by adding lime water, or vichy, apollinaris, or some other 
sparkling table water. From one-half to one-eighth the total volume may 
be added. 

Orape Juice (Drexel Institute) (2). — Pluck Concord grapes from the 
stem. Wash and heat them, stirring constantly. When the skins have 
been broken, pour the fruit into a jelly bag and press slightly. Measure 
the juice and add one-quarter the quantity of sugar. Boil the juice and 
sugar together and then pour into hot bottles ; cork and seal with paraffin 
or equal parts of shoemaker's wax and resin melted together. Less sugar 
may be used. 

Vanilla, Bitter Almond or Strawberry Junket. — 

Vanilla or bitter almond extract.^ teaspoonful 2 c.c, 

or 
Pure concentrated strawberry 

sirup 1 tablespoonful 15 " 88 calories 

Whole milk ^ pint 250 " 170 « 

Add the flavoring extract to the cold milk and then prepare in the 
usual way. The vanilla or bitter almond extract or the strawberry sirup 
should be allowed to a half-pint of milk. 

Milk Lemonade (Ruhr ah). — 

Sugar 2 ounces. . 56 grams 224 calories 

Boiled milk 5 " 150 c.c 115 " 

Lemon i^ " 65 grams 20 " 

or 

White Wine 2 " 120 c.c 83 « 

Boiling water 5 " 150 " 

Rind of lemon ^ " 5 grams. 



BEVERAGES 585 

Pour the boiling water over the peel and the sugar; allow it to cool, 
add the milk, and then the lemon juice or wine. Strain after ten minutes. 

Milk Porridge (Drexel Institute). — 

Flour 1 tablespoonful 50 grams 85 calories 

Cold milk M cupful 63 c.c 45 « 

Hot milk M " 63 « 45 " 

Salt M teaspoonful 1 gram. 

Mix the flour with the cold milk and stir into the hot milk ; if desired 
add two raisins cut into quarters. Cook over boiling water for one hour, 
and add the salt just before serving. 

Plain Egg Flip (Watson). — 

Milk 1 teacup 250 c.c 150 calories 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 10 grams 41 " 

Egg 1 white 32 « 30 " 

Boil the milk or make it thoroughly hot ; beat up the white of egg to 
a stiff froth. Pour the boiling milk over the white of egg, stirring all the 
time. Add sugar to taste, and serve. 

BEVERAGES WITH EGG AND ALCOHOL 

Rich Egg Flip (Watson). — 

Egg 1 white 32 grams 30 calories. 

Cream 1 tablespoonful 20 " 54 " 

Brandy 1 " 15 c.c 58 « 

Sugar to taste 1 teaspoonful 10 grams 41 " 

Beat up the white of egg stiffly ; add to it the brandy and cream, with 
a little sugar if wished. Mix very thoroughly and serve. 

Egg-nog (Fitch). — 

Egg 1 (freshly laid) 50 grams 80 calories 

Powdered sugar 1 tablespoonful 40 " 160 " 

French brandy 1 ounce 30 c.c 105 " 

Santa Cruz rum 2 drams "^5 " 25 " 

Fresh milk 1 glassful 250 « 170 « 

Cream 1 wineglassful (2 ounces) .... 64 " 225 " 

Break the egg, separating the white from the yolk, and beat the yolk 
slowly, adding the sugar until it is thoroughly dissolved; then add the 
brandy, at first drop by drop, vigorously beating the mixture all the time 
until one-half is added, then increase the flow until all the brandy is 
added. !Now add the milk, pouring very slowly, beating the mixture all 
the while. Continue beating while the rum is being slowly added. An 



586 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

assistant should have the white of egg beaten to a froth, which is now 
dropped on top of the mixture. Add a small pinch of gi'ated nutmeg, 
dusting over the frothy whites, and set mixture on ice for an hour, when 
it will be ready to serve. 

Cold Egg-nog (Watson). — 

Egg 1 whole 50 grams 80 calories 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 20 " 80 « 

Milk 1 glassful 250 c.c 170 • " 

Brandy or good whiskey 1 tablespoonful 15 " 55 " 

Beat up the egg, add the sugar and milk and then the brandy or 
whiskey ; mix thoroughly. 

Hot Egg-nog — 

Egg 1 yolk 18 grams 68 calories 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 20 « 180 « 

Hot milk 1 glassful 250 c.c 170 « 

Brandy or old whiskey 1 tablespoonful 15 " 55 " 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and milk, and then the brandy or whiskey ; 
mix thoroughly. 

Brandy-and-Eg^ Mixture (Stokes). — 

Eggs 2 yolks 36 grams 138 calories 

White sugar H ounce 20 " 80 " 

Cinnamon water ".4 ounces 120 c.c. 

Brandy 4 " 120 « 468 « 

Rub the yolks of the eggs with the white sugar, add the cinnamon 
water and then the brandy. Dose: One or two teaspoonfuls every two 
hours, according to age. 

Brandy-and-Egg Mixture for Infants (Louis Starr). — 

Egg 1 yolk 18 grams 68 calories 

Brandy }/2 ounce 15 c.c 60 " 

Cinnamon water 1 teaspoonful 4 " 

White sugar 1 coffeespoonful 20" 80 * 

Beat all these ingredfents up well. 

Egg-nog (Ruhriih). — 

Egg 1 large 60 grams 80 calories 

Sugar 1 tablespoonful 30 " 120 " 

Whiskey 2 tablespoonfuls 30 c.c 90 « 

Cream 7 " .... 140 grams 210 « 

Add the sugar to the yolk of egg and beat until very light. Whip 
the white of the egg and then the cream until very stiff. Add the whiskey 



BEVERAGES 587 

to the yolk of egg and sugar. Mix well. Add one-half the cream to this, 
then one-half the beaten white of egg, then the remaining cream, and 
finally the remaining white of egg. Mix lightly. This recipe makes a 
glass and a half. 

Egg-nog (Bartholow)(3). — Scald some new milk by putting it, con- 
tained in a jug, into a saucepan of boiling water ; it must not be allowed 
to boil. Beat an egg with a fork in a tumbler with some sugar ; add a des- 
sertspoonful of brandy, and fill the tumbler with the scalded milk when 
cold. This egg-nog will furnish about 300 calories. 

Beef -tea Egg-nog (Davis). — 

"Soluble Beef" J4 teaspoonful 0.5 grams 20 calories 

Hot water 3^ cupful 125 c.c. 

Brandy 1 tablespoonf ul 15 " 60 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 grams 80 " 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 20 « 85 " 

Salt a pinch 1 " 

Beat the egg slightly, and add the salt and sugar. Dissolve the 
"Soluble Beef" in the hot water, add to the egg, and strain. Mix thor- 
oughly, adding wine, and serve. 

Grape Juice and Egg. — 

Egg 1 white 32 grams 30 calories 

Grape juice 2 tablespoonfuls 30 c.c 20 " 

Beat the egg lightly, strain through a napkin, and add to it the grape 
juice. Fill a large wineglass half full of cracked ice. Pour the egg and 
grape juice over this, sprinkle sugar over it, and serve. 

Milk Punch 

Milk 1 glass 250 c.c 170 calories 

Rum 1 tablespoonful 15 " 45 " 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 20 grams 81 " 

Shake together in a lemonade-shaker the milk, rum, brandy or good 
old whiskey, and the sugar. After it has been poured into a glass, a little 
nutmeg may be grated over the top. 

Egg Flip. — Boil or heat thoroughly a teacupful of milk, beat the 
white of one egg to a froth. Pour the milk over the egg, stirring con- 
stantly. Add sugar to taste. This will furnish 230 calories. 

Caudle (Yeo). — Beat an egg to a froth; add a glass of sherry and 
half a pint of gruel. Flavor with a lemon peel, nutmeg and sugar. This 
will furnish 120 to 150 calories, according to the consistency of the gruel. 
If milk is used to make the gruel it will have a higher value. 



588 PKEPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AKD FOODS 

Wine Whey 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 calories 

Slierry wine Yt " 60 " 76 « 

Cook the milk and sherry wine together. As soon as the curd sepa- 
rates, strain and sweeten. This may be eaten hot or cold. 

Mulled Wine (Drexel Institute). — 

Hot water M cupful 30 c.c. 

Stick cinnamon Yi inch 2 grams. 

Cloves 2 whole 0.5 « 

Nutmeg tiny bit 05 " 

Port (heated) Yi cupful 60 c.c 106 calories 

Sugar 2 tablespoonfuls 28 grams 112 " 

Boil all the ingredients except the wine and sugar for ten minutes; 
then add the wine and sugar, strain, and serve very hot. 

PEPTONIZED AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 

Predigested protein, in the form of peptone and albumose, is of value 
principally in increasing the nutritive properties of liquid foods. Its 
principal value as an aliment is in its nutritive property in long-continued 
wasting diseases. It also has some value as an appetizer when there is 
diminished secretion of the gastric juice, and is of use where gastric mo- 
tility and secretion are low, on account of its being a concentrated food. 
It is useful in artificial feeding by the stomach tube or for rectal alimen- 
tations. 

Peptonized Beef (Fairchild). — 

Finely minced lean beef ^ pound 100 grams 255 calories 

Cold water J^2 pint 250 c.c. 

Extract of pancreas 20 grains 1 . 25 grams 2 " 

Bicarbonate of soda 15 " 1 " 

Egg 1 white 30 « 30 « 

Salt and pepper 1 saltspoon 1 " 

Cover the lean beef (or beef and chicken mixed) with the cold water. 
Cook over a slow fire until it has boiled for a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Pour off the broth and rub or pound the meat to a paste. Put 
meat and broth and half a pint of cold water in a glass jar, and add the 
extract of pancreas and bicarbonate of soda. Mix well and keep in a 
warm place — at about 110°-115° F. — or place it in warm water and 
allow it to stand three hours, stirring or shaking occasionally. Boil 
quickly ; strain or clarify with the egg, and season with salt and pepper. 



BEVERAGES 589 

If desired, it need not be strained, as the small particles of meat are 
usually easily digested. Cereals may be added, boiling with half the 
amount of water previously directed, and mixing all together before pep- 
tonizing. At the end of three hours the mixture must be boiled or it 
will spoil. 

Peptonized Oysters (Fairchild). — 

Oysters 3^ dozen 85 grams 44 calories 

Water 3^ pint 250 c.c. 

Extract of pancreas 15 grains 1.4 grams 2 " 

Bicarbonate of soda 15 " 1 " 

Milk J^pint 250 c.c 170 " 

Salt 1 saltspoon 1 gram. 

Pepper 1 " 1 

To the oysters with their juice add the water, and boil for a few 
minutes. Pour off the broth and set it aside. Mince the oysters, and 
with the aid of a potato-masher reduce to the consistence of a paste. 
Place this with the broth in a glass jar and add the extract of pancreas and 
the bicarbonate of soda and mix. Allow this to stand in hot water 
(115° F.) for one and one-half hours. Pour into a saucepan and add the 
milk ; heat over a slow fire to boiling point. Flavor with salt and pepper 
and serve hot. Let the heating be done gradually, and be careful to bring 
the mixture to a boil before taking it from the fire. 

Partially Digested Cereals Prepared at the Table. — To a saucer of well- 
cooked oatmeal, wheaten grits or rice, at the customary temperature, add 
one or two teaspoonfuls of Fairchild's Diastasic Essence of Pancreas, or 
fifteen grains of Fairchild's Dry Extract of Pancreas. Stir for a few 
minutes before eating. When the ferments are added to the very hot 
foods their power becomes impaired. About 100 grams, energy value 
about 200 calories. 

Partially Peptonized Milk (Ruhrah). — 

Milk 1 pint 500 c.c , 325 calories 

Water 4 ounces 120 " 

Fairchild's peptonizing tube 1 1 gram 2 " • 

or 

Pancreas extract 5 grains 0.33 " 

Bicarbonate of soda 15 " 1 " 

Into a clean granite-ware or porcelain-lined saucepan place the milk, 
water and the contents of the tube, or the pancreas extract, and bicar- 
bonate of soda. Heat gradually until it boils, stirring constantly. Boil 
gently for ten minutes, strain into a clean bottle, cork and keep in a cool 



590 PREPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

place. Before using, shake the bottle well ; serve hot or cold. Prepared 
in this way it will not become bitter. 

Peptonized Milk — 

Cold Process. — Mix milk, water and peptonizing agents as directed in 
the preceding recipe, and immediately place the bottle on ice. Use when 
ordinary milk is required. This is particularly suited for dyspeptics and 
individuals with whom milk does not, as a rule, agree. The flavor of the 
milk remains unchanged. 

Warm Process. — 

Milk 1 pint 500 c.c 325 calories 

Cold water 4 ounces 120 " 

Extract of pancreas 5 grains 0.33 gm 2 " 

Bicarbonate of soda. 15 " 1 " 

Put the milk and cold water in a glass jar, add the extract of pancreas 
and the bicarbonate of soda. After mixing thoroughly, place the jar in 
water as hot as can be borne by the hand (about 115° F.). This should be 
heated for from six to twenty minutes. At the end of this time it may be 
placed upon ice until required. The contents of one of Fairchild's pep- 
tonizing tubes may be used in place of the pancreas extract. If the milk 
is to be kept for any length of time, it should be brought to a boil, to pre- 
vent the formation of too much peptone, which renders the milk bitter. 

Hot Peptonized Milk — Mix together the usual peptonizing ingredients 
and add a pint of fresh cold milk. After thoroughly shaking the bottle 
place it on ice. When needed, pour out the required amount, heat it, and 
drink it as hot as it can agreeably be taken. If required for immediate 
use, the ingredients may be mixed together in a saucepan and slowly 
heated to the proper temperature. 

Effervescent Peptonized Milk — Put some finely cracked ice in a glass, 
fill it half full of Apollinaris, vichy or siphon water, and immediately add 
the peptonized milk. Drink while effervescing. Brandy may be added 
if desired. 

Specially Peptonized Milk. — This is to be used in the preparation of 
jellies, punches and all recipes where the milk is to be mixed with fruit 
juices or acids. Prepare according to the hot process; keep the milk at a 
temperature of 115° F. for one hour; pour into a saucepan and bring to a 
boil. If required hot, this may be used immediately, or it may be set aside 
on ice, to be used later. If not heated for an hour, the milk will curdle 
on being mixed with an acid. If not boiled, the peptonizing ferment will 
digest gelatin and prevent the formation of jelly. 



BEVERAGES 591 

Peptonized Milk Jelly (Friedenwald and Ruhrah). — 

Cox's gelatin 3^ box 

Water 4 ounces 120 c.c. 

Hot specially peptonized milk ... 1 pint 500 " 325 calories 

Sugar 4 ounces 112 gm 410 " 

Fresh lemon 1 whole 130 « 41 « 

Orange 1 « 250" 96 " 

St. Croix rum or brandy 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 50 c.c 245 " 

Soak the gelatin well in the water. Take the peptonized milk and add 
the sugar. Put in the gelatin and stir until it is dissolved. Pare the 
lemon and orange, and add the rinds to the mixture. Squeeze the lemon 
and the orange juice into a glass, strain and mix with the rum or brandy 
if preferred. Add the juices to the milk, stirring constantly. Strain, 
and allow it to cool to the consistence of sirup. When almost ready to 
set, pour into cups and set in a cold place. Do not pour the milk into 
moulds until the mixture is nearly ready to set, otherwise it will separate 
in setting. 

Peptonized Milk lemonade. — 

Cracked ice ]4 glass 80 c.c. 

Juice of 1 lemon 20 " 

Sugar 3 teaspoonfuls 30 gm 100 calories 

Squeeze into the cracked ice the lemon juice, and add the sugar dis- 
solved in water. Fill the glass with fresh specially peptonized milk and 
stir well. If preferred, equal parts of milk and of an eifervescent mineral 
water may be used. Pour the water on the lemon juice and ice, and im- 
mediately fill the glass with milk. 

Peptonized Milk Punch — 

Finely crushed ice \i goblet 80 c.c. 

Rum 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 " 50 calories 

Curacao a dash 5 " 15 " 

Nutmeg a pinch 

In the usual milk punch recipes the specially peptonized milk may be 
used in place of ordinary milk. Take the ice, pour on it the rum and 
Curacao, or any other liquor agreeable to the taste. Fill the glass with 
peptonized milk; stir well, sweeten to taste, and grate a little nutmeg 
on top. 

Peptonized Milk Gruel. — 

Wheat flour 1 teaspoonful 

Cold water K pint 250 c.c. 

Cold milk 1 pint 500 « 340 calories 



592 PREPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND POODS 

Mix the wheat flour, arrowroot flour or Robinson's barley flour with 
the cold water. Boil for five minutes, stirring constantly. Add the cold 
milk and strain into a jar; add the usual peptonizing ingredients; place 
in warm water (115° P.) for twenty minutes and then upon ice. 

Junket, or Curds and Whey — 

Fresh milk 3^ pint 250 c.c 180 calories 

Fairchild's essence of pepsin 1 teaspoonful 

To the milk add the essence of pepsin and stir just sufficiently to mix. 
Pour into custard cups, and let it stand until firmly curdled. It may be 
served plain or with sugar and grated nutmeg. It may be flavored with 
wine, which should be added before curdling takes place. 

Junket with E^. — 

Egg 1 whole 50 gm 80 calories 

White sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 20" 42 " 

Warm milk i/^ pint 250 c.c 180 " 

Essence of pepsin 1 teaspoonful 4 " 

Beat the egg to a froth, and sweeten with the sugar; add this to the 
warm milk, and then add the essence of pepsin and let it stand until 
curdled. 

Cocoa Junket (Fairchild). — 

Cocoa 1 even tablespoon- 

ful 16 gm 100 calories 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 20 " 82 « 

Boiling water 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c. 

Fresh, cool milk y^ pint 250 « 180 « 

Fairchild's essence of pepsin 1 teaspoonful 4 " 

Put the cocoa and sugar into a saucepan ; scald with the boiling water 
and rub into a smooth paste ; then stir in thoroughly the milk ; heat this 
mixture until it is lukewarm — not over 100° F. ; add the essence of pep- 
sin, and stir just enough to mix ; pour quickly into small cups or glasses, 
and let it stand until firmly curdled, when the junket is ready for use. 
It may be placed on ice and eaten cold ; as a dessert it may be served with 
whipped cream. 

Coffee Junket 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 20 gm 82 calories 

Clear, strong coffee 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c. 

Fresh, cool milk i^ pint 250 " 180 " 

Fairchild's essence of pepsin 1 teaspoonful 4 " 



BEEF TEAS 593 

Dissolve the sugar in the coiTee; mix this thoroughly with the milk; 
add the essence of pepsin as directed above, and serve in the same way. 

Iodized Junket. — 

Milk ^ teacupful 120 c.c 85 calories 

Pepsin 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls 

Prescribe a saturated solution of potassium iodid and also a bottle 
of essence of pepsin. Take the milk and add the required number of 
drops of the iodid solution. Heat the milk lukewarm and add the two 
teaspoonfuls of pepsin and let it stand until curdled. This will be found 
useful where it is difficult to administer the iodid by ordinary methods. 

Whey.— 

Fresh milk J^ pint 250 c.c 180 calories 

Essence of pepsin 1 tablespoonful 

Heat the milk lukewarm (115° F.), add the essence of pepsin, and 
stir just enough to mix. When this is firmly coagulated, beat up with a 
fork until the curd is finely divided and then strain. For flavoring pur- 
poses lemon juice or sherry wine may be added. 

Grape Juice Whey 

Orange 1 , juice of 60 c.c 45 calories 

Grape juice ^ pint 120 « 180 « 

Make whey as in the above recipe. To this add the juice of the orange 
and the grape juice. Strain again if necessary. This may be served hot 
or on cracked ice. It may be sweetened if desired. Energy about 225 
calories. 

Cream-of -Tartar Whey (Pavy). — 

Cream of tartar 1 heaping teaspoonf ul 

Boiling water 1 pint 

Milk 1 cup 250 c.c 180 calories 

Add the cream of tartar to the boiling water. Strain, sweeten to taste, 
and serve cold. Energy about 180 calories. 

BEEF TEAS 
Beef Tea (Pavy).— 

Finely minced beef 1 pound 454 gm 1,000 calories 

Cold water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Salt J^ teaspoonful 2 gm. 

Put the beef with the cold water into a suitable vessel. Let it stand 
for an hour, stirring occasionally. Put the vessel containing the beef into 



594 PKEPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVEKAGES AND FOODS 

a saucepan of water, place it over the fire, and allow the water to heat 
gently for an hour (or the vessel containing the beef tea may be put into 
an ordinary oven for an hour). Pass the beef tea through a strainer. A 
fine sediment appears in the fluid, and this should be drunk with the 
liquid. Flavor with salt. At no time should the beef extract be exposed 
to a temperature of more than 170° F. 

Beef Tea (Bartholow). — 

Beef 1 pound 454 gra 1,000 calories 

Cold water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Chop the beef fine, free from fat, tendons, etc., and soak with the cold 
water for two hours. Let it simmer on the stove for three hours at a tem- 
perature never above 160° F. Replace the water lost by evaporation by 
adding cold water, so that a pint of beef tea shall represent a pound of 
beef. Strain and carefully express all fluid from the beef. 

Beef Tea with Oatmeal (Yeo). — 

Groats 1 tablespoonful 30 gm 104 calories 

Cold water 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c. 

Boiling beef tea 1 pint 500 " 150 « 

Mix thoroughly the groats and cold water ; add to this the boiling beef 
tea. Boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain through a coarse 
sieve. 

Beef Tea (Caultey). — 1. Mince one pound of lean beef, and add to 
it one pint of cold water and ten drops of dilute hydrochloric acid. Let 
it stand for two or three hours, with occasional stirring, and then simmer 
for ten to twenty minutes. Do not let it boil. Skim well. Energy value 
25 calories to 100 c.c. 

2. Mince one pound of lean beef as fine as possible, and pound it in a 
mortar with a small teaspoonful of salt. Add the meat and its juice to 
one pint of water at 170° F. in an earthen vessel, and stand it for an hour 
by the fire, stirring at times. Then strain it through muslin, taking 
care to squeeze all the juice out of the meat. It furnishes 25 calories 
to 100 c.c. 

The composition of beef tea, Nos. 1 and 2, is 92.9 per cent water, 4.4 
per cent protein, 0.4 per cent fat, 1.1 per cent carbohydrate. 

Beef Tea, Flavored (Yeo). — Beef tea may be flavored agreeably by 
boiling in it a pinch of mixed herbs, a bay-leaf or a bit of onion, carrot, 
turnip or celery and a few peppercorns. The roots should either be 
chopped small or be scraped to a pulp before being added to the broth. 



MEAT JUICES 595 

Thick Beef Tea, No. 1 (Watson). — 

Beef tea (made) 3^ pint 250 c.c 75 calories 

Egg 1 yolk 18 gm. 68 « 

Tapioca grout 1 teaspoonful 5 " 15 " 

Warm the beef tea and sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring all the time. 
Let it simmer slowly by the side of the fire until the tapioca turns quite 
clear. This will probably take about fifteen minutes. Beat up the yolk 
of an egg in a cup, pour the beef tea gi-adually over it, stirring all the 
time. It is now ready for serving. 

Beef Tea, No. 2 (Watson). — 

Beef tea (made) 3^ pint 250 c.c 75 calories 

Arrowroot 1 teaspoonful 5 gm 15 " 

Cold water 1 " 4 c.c. 

Mix the arrowroot and the water in a small basin until qviite smooth. 
Then add it to beef tea that is being warmed in a pan ; stir well for a few 
minutes to prevent it from becoming lumpy. Then simmer slowly for 
fifteen minutes. 

MEAT JUICES 

This variety of food differs greatly in nutritive value from the beef 
teas and essences previously mentioned. The meat juice is extracted with- 
out any heat and under strong pressure, and thus a large portion of the 
albumin is present. 

Home-made meat juice is cheaper than the proprietary preparations, 
and is more valuable on accoimt of its freshness, and the absence of pre- 
servatives. It contains a relatively small quantity of extractives, and can 
be given in considerable amounts without causing diarrhea or thirst. The 
great drawback to the home-made product is its red color, which is de- 
cidedly objectionable. This can be partially overcome by serving in a red 
glass or a cup. 

Home-made Meat Juice (Watson). — 

Rump steak (best) ^ pound 115 gm 330 calories 

Cold water 1 gill 125 c.c. 

Pinch of salt or sugar to taste. 

Wipe and shred the meat very finely, pound it well, and rub it through 
a fine wire sieve. Place in a basin with water and salt, and let stand, 
stirring occasionally, for a couple of hours. The liquid will then be a 
bright red color. Strain through a fine strainer, pressing the meat with 



596 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

the back of a spoon. The fluid obtained will contain 4 to 5 per cent of 
protein. 

Meat juice should be made in very small quantities, as it very soon be- 
comes rancid. Another method, such as squeezing the meat in a lemon 
squeezer, may be tried, but this is wasteful, as the pressure is not suf- 
ficiently powerful to extract all the juice. 

Meat-Juice Mince (Watson). — 

Rump steak (best) \^ pound 230 gm 660 calories 

Butter 1 small piece 15 " 123 " 

Pepper and salt K teaspoonful each . 2 " 

Rub the meat through a hair sieve until all the red juicy part has gone 
through ; scrape the bottom of the sieve. Melt a very little piece of the 
butter in a small frying-pan ; toss the meat juice in it for three or four 
minutes, until it loses its red color. Flavor and serve with toast This 
looks just like mince, but as none of the fiber is present, it is very digesti- 
ble. This meat-juice mince can be made more easily digestible by omit- 
ting the butter, and adopting the following method: Add to the scraped 
meat a teaspoonful of beef tea or simple stock, and stir in an iron pan for 
three or four minutes, when the juice granulates and becomes brown in 
color. If an enamel pan is used, the meat has a very unappetizing 
appearance. 

Beef Juice (Bartholow). — Broil quickly some pieces of round or sir- 
loin steak, of a size to fit in the cavity of a lemon squeezer previously 
heated by dipping in hot water. The juice should be received into a hot, 
colored (preferably red) wine glass, seasoned to taste with salt and 
cayenne pepper, and taken hot. 

Beef Juice (Caultey). — Chop lean beef fine, or scrape with a fork or 
meat scraper to separate the connective tissue, and put it in a jar or cup 
with a pinch of salt and enough cold water to cover it. Allow it to stand 
from one to six hours, and then squeeze well through coarse muslin. It 
may be given alone or mixed with other foods, warm or cold, but not hot. 
It should be warmed by heating the vessel in hot water. 

Beef Juice (Ringer). — Take one ounce of fresh beef, free from fat, 
chop fine and pour over it eight ounces of cold water ; add five or six drops 
of dilute hydrochloric acid and fifty to sixty grains of common salt, stir it 
well, and leave for three or four hours in a cool place. Then pass the 
liquid through a hair sieve, pressing the meat slightly, and adding grad- 
ually toward the end of the straining about two more ounces of water. 
The liquid thus obtained is of a red color, possessing the taste of soupj 



J 



BROTHS 697 

It should be taken cold, a teaspoonful at a time. If preferred warm, it 
must not be put on the fire, but heated in a covered vessel placed in hot 
water. It furnishes 25 calories to 100 c.c. 

The composition of beef juice is 90.6 per cent water, 5 per cent pro- 
tein, O.G per cent fat. 

Beef Essence (Yeo). — 

Lean beef 1 pound 460 gm 1,320 calories 

Salt a little 

Chop the lean beef very fine, free from fat and skin ; add the salt and 
put into an earthen jar with a lid ; fasten up the edges with a thick paste, 
such as is used for roasting venison in, and place the jar in the oven for 
three or four hours. Strain through a coarse sieve, and give the patient 
two or three tablespoonfuls at a time. Energy value 25 calories to 100 c.c. 

Cold Beef Juice. — 

Finely chopped lean beef 1 pound 452 gm 1,000 calories 

Cold water 8 ounces 250 c.c. 

Cover the beef with the cold water and allow it to stand for eight or 
ten hours. Squeeze out the juice by means of a muslin bag ; season with 
salt or sherry wine, and drink cold or slightly warmed. It may be added 
to milk, care being taken that the milk is not too hot before the juice is 
added. 

Iced Meat Extract (v. Ziemssen). — 

Fresh beef 2 pounds 1 kilo 2,000 calories 

Sugar K pound 250 gm 1,000 " 

Freshly expressed lemon juice ... 7 ounces 200 " 50 " 

Cognac containing vanilla extract^ ounce 20 " 5 " 

Eggs 3 yolks 54 " 204 " 

Cut the fresh beef into pieces the size of a hand; wrap in a coarse, 
lattice-like linen bag, put under a lever press, and press slowly. The 
juice should be caught in a porcelain dish. This is best done by a drug- 
gist. By this method about 500 grams of juice are obtained. Mix the 
juice with the sugar and lemon juice (this last is best omitted in the case 
of dyspeptics) and the cognac ; stir in well the yolks of the eggs, and place 
the entire mixture in a freezer. Energy value 25 calories to 100 c.c. 

BROTHS 

Broths, beef teas, etc., are home-made infusions of beef, mutton, veal 
or chicken, and are always in demand for the sick-room. They are to be 
138 



598 PREPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

regarded, however, more in the nature of pleasant, palatable and stimu- 
lating beverages than as foods. Their nutritive value depends entirely on 
the method of preparation. If the process of cooking is carried to the 
point that the infusion contains a portion of the protein of the meat, then 
there is some nutritive value ; but, on the other hand, if prepared after the 
ordinary routine, only the extractives and salts of the meat are dissolved 
out and, from the point of view of nutrition, the value is practically 
negative. 

Meat Broth (Beef, Veal, Mutton or Chicken) (Sutherland). — - 

Chopped lean meat 1 pound 450 gm 1,000 calories 

Water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Cover the meat with the water and allow it to stand for from four to 
six hours. Then cook over a slow fire for an hour until reduced to half 
the quantity. Cool, skim, pour into jar and strain. 

Chicken Broth (Bartholow). — Skin and chop fine a small chicken or 
half a large fowl, and boil it, bones and all, with a blade of mace, a sprig 
of parsley and a crust of bread, in a quart of water for an hour, skim- 
ming it from time to time. Strain through a coarse colander. It fur- 
nishes 56 calories to 100 c.c. 

The composition of chicken broth is 84 per cent water, 10.5 per cent 
protein, 0.8 per cent fat, 2.4 per cent carbohydrate. 

Veal Broth 

Water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Lean veal H pound 225 gm 500 calories 

Pour the water on the finely chopped lean veal and allow it to stand for 
three hours. Boil for a few minutes, strain and season with salt. 

Clam or Oyster Juice (Drexel Institute). — Cut the clams or oysters 
into pieces and heat for a few minutes in their juice. Strain through 
muslin and serve while hot. In straining great care must be taken that 
sand does not pass through the muslin. The juice should be diluted and 
may be frozen. 

Clam Broth (Drexel Institute). — 

Clams 3 large 75 gm 40 calories 

Cold water H cupful 125 c.c. 

Wash the clams very thoroughly, using a brush for the purpose. Place 
in a kettle with the cold water. Heat over the fire. As soon as the shells 
open, the broth is done. Strain through muslin, season and serve. 



BROTHS 599 

Mutton Broth with Vegetables — 

Neck mutton 1 pound 450 gm 1,375 calories 

Water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Carrots 2 whole 200 gm 36 " 

Turnips 1 " 200 " 54 « 

Onions 3 " 200 " 18 « 

Barley 4 tablespoonfuls. . . 75 " 40 " 

Allow one pound of neck mutton to each pint of water ; add the above 
ingredients. Let all simmer together for three hours. 

Mutton Broth without Meat — 

"Shankends" 2 bones 1,000 gm 200 calories 

Cold water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Cook the "shankends" in the cold water, add vegetables as directed 
in the foregoing recipe ; simmer for three hours and strain. 

Invalid Broths (Thompson) (4). — To one pound of chopped lean meat 
— chicken, mutton or beef — add one pint of cold water ; let stand in a 
covered glass fruit jar from four to six hours; cook for three hours in a 
closed jar over a slow fire, strain, cool, skim off the fat, clear with egg, 
season, and use warm or cold. 

These broths, except the chicken broth, possess essentially the same 
fuel value as beef tea. 

Beef Broth with Poached Eggs. — Prepare the broth in the proportion 
of half a teaspoonful of "Soluble Beef" to one cupful of hot water and 
add a poached egg. 

A Nutritive Drink for Delicate Women and Children. — 

"Soluble Beef" 3^ teaspoonful 2 gm 30 calories 

Boiling water 5 ounces 150 c.c. 

Cream 3^ ounce 20 gm 72 " 

Mix the "Soluble Beef," water and cream, season with salt and pepper 
to suit the taste. 

Beef Broth and Grain. — 

" Soluble Beef" 1 teaspoonful 2 gm 30 calories 

Water 1 quart 1,000 c.c. 

Rice 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 20 " 

Take the above ingredients and add salt to taste. Dissolve the "Solu- 
ble Beef" in the hot water, and add the well-washed rice. Simmer 
slowly until dissolved and absorbed by the rice, adding more beef broth 
if too much boils away. If not entirely dissolved, the broth should be 
strained before using. 



600 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

BOUILLON 

Plain Bouillon (Wegele). — 
Lean beef M kg. (1 lb.) 453 gm 1,086 calories 

Cut the beef into small pieces and put same in a vessel holding about 
3 pounds (6 pints) and having a well-fitting cover (or use a double boiler). 
Fill vessel with cold water and allow it to cook for 3 to 4 hours. According 
to the strength required, it is better to add boiling water afterward, mak- 
ing the bouillon stronger or weaker, as desired. This makes about 2 
pounds (4 pints) of bouillon — ^meat not to be used again. To obtain a 
better taste and color, one can brown the meat iu a hot dry pan before 
putting the meat into the 6 pints of water. 

Clam Bouillon (Pattee). — 

Cold water ^ cupful 187 c.c. 

Clam broth >^ « 125 " 42 calories 

Scalding milk ^ « 30 " 45 

Butter 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 120 " 

Salt, pepper each ^ teaspoon ... 4 * 

Celery sauce 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 * 48 " 

Whipped cream 1 " ....30 " 81 

Blend the water and clam broth, heat to the boiling point, then add 
the scalding milk, the butter and stir well ; season with salt, pepper and 
celery sauce to taste. A small quantity of cracker crumbs may be added 
to thicken it. Serve in heated bouillon cups and garnish with the whipped 
cream. 

Clam Bouillon Bisque (Pattee). — 

Butter 14 tablespoonful ... 8 gm 60 calories 

Chopped onion 1 " .... 5" 15 " 

Chopped carrot H « .... 80 " 38 

Clam broth 1 cupful 250 c.c 84 " 

Flour \^ tablespoonful. ... 20 gm 15 " 

Boiling water 1 cupful 250 c.c. 

Egg 1 yolk 18 gm 68 

Cream J^ cup 40 « 120 " 

Melt the butter, add the finely chopped onion and carrot; cover and 
cook until the onion and carrot are tender, stirring occasionally. Add 
the flour, blending well ; then pour on gradually the boiling water and the 
clam broth. Cook five minutes, strain and return to saucepan. Mix the 
yolk of ef^^ with the cream, and add it slowly to the bisque. Pour into 
heated bouillon cups and serve with small oyster crackers. 



VEGETABLE SOUPS 601 

American Bouillon, American Broth (Yeo). — Place in a tin vessel that 
can be sealed hermetically alternate layers of finely minced meat and 
vegetables. Seal it, and keep it heated in a water bath {hain marie) for 
six or seven hours, and then express the broth. 

Bottle Bouillon (Uffelmann). — Cut beef, free from fat, into squares. 
Place these in a stoppered bottle, put the bottle in a basin of warm water, 
heat slowly, and boil for twenty minutes. There will be about an ounce 
of yellowish or brownish fluid for each three-quarters of a pound of meat 
used. The flavor is that of concentrated bouillon. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Soups without Meat (Drexel Institute). — These soups are thickened 
by using butter and flour. This prevents a separation of the thicker and 
thinner parts of the soup. The butter should be heated until it bubbles, 
the flour and seasoning added, and enough of the hot liquid to make a 
smooth sauce thin enough to pour easily. This should be poured into the 
rest of the hot liquid and cooked in a double boiler until the soup is of the 
proper consistence. In soups made of dried peas and beans, soda is used 
to soften the casein. It is also used in tomatoes to neutralize the acid. 
These soups must be served in hot dishes as soon as ready. Crisp crackers, 
croutons, or soup sticks may be served with them. 

Crisp Crackers. — Split and butter thick crackers and brown in a hot 
oven. 

s»^ Cream-of-Tomato Soup 

Tomatoes 1 can 450 gm 105 calories 

Soda ^ teaspoonful 1 " 

Butter K pound 183 « 1,000 

Flour 14 " 183 « 500 « 

Salt 3^ teaspoonfuls 12 « 

White pepper 3^ teaspoonful 2 " 

Milk 1 quart 1,000 c.c 720 " 

Stew the tomatoes slowly one-half to one hour, strain and add soda 
while hot; make a white sauce and add the tomato juice. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Vegetable Soup. — 

Spinach 1 handful 200 gm 16 calories 

Beet 1 large 200 " 29 

Carrots 2 small 200 " 18 " 

Chop the vegetables fine and add to one qviart of water. Boil two 



602 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

hours, add water to make quantity up to one quart and strain. Add salt 
if desired. This contains a large amount of inorganic salts. 

Cream-of -Celery Soup (Ruhrah). — 

Celery 13^ cupfuls 250 gm 45 calories 

Water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Milk 1 cupful 250 " 170 « 

Cream 1 " 250" 440 " 

Butter 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 gm 240 

Flour y^ cupful 140 « 400 

Salt Yi. teaspoonful 2 « 

White pepper >^ « .... 2 « 

Cook the celery in the boiling water until very soft ; strain and add the 
hot liquid ; make a white sauce and cook until it is thick cream. 

Cream-of -Potato Soup (Wegele). — 

Potatoes, white 3 whole 300 gm 450 calories 

Milk 2 cupfuls 500 c.c 340 

Cream Y^ cupful 125 « 220 « 

Eggs 2 yolks 54 gm 204 " 

Salt 1 teaspoonful 4 " 

Pepper M " 1 « 

Onion juice H " 2 " 

Cook the potatoes until soft, drain, mash, add the hot liquid and strain ; 
add the beaten yolks and seasoning. Cook in a double boiler until the 
egg thickens, stirring constantly. Serve immediately. 

Tapioca Soup (Yeo). — 

Meat broth or stock 1 pint 600 gm 454 calories 

Previously washed tapioca ^ ounce 21 " 21 " 

Boil the broth or stock, and, while stirring constantly, sprinkle in the 
tapioca. Cover the saucepan, and let it stand until the tapioca is quite 
soft. Skim and serve. 

Julienne Soup (Vegetarian) (Watson). — 

Vegetable stock (clarified) 1 quart 1,000 c.c 360 calories 

Mushroom ketchup 2 tablespoonfub. . . 30 " 

Salt and pepper ^ teaspoonful 2 gm. 

Turnip, carrot, celery, onion .... 4 ounces, each .... 400 " 160 * 

Walnut ketchup 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c. 

Sherry ^ cup 120 « 160 « 

Cut the vegetables into fine strips about the size and shape of a small 
match, and boil them separately until tender but not broken. Have the 



VEGETABLE SOUPS 603 

stock ready boiling; add salt, pepper, a very little ketchup and sherry to 
taste; put in the prepared vegetables, cook for fifteen minutes and serve. 

White Soup (Watson). — 

Onions 2 small 200 gm 84 calories 

Celery 1 head 200 « 32 

Milk K pint 250 c.c 170 

Turnip 1 whole 560 gm 24 

Artichokes 2 French 720 « 194 « 

Flour 1 dessertspoonful . . 15 " ' 15 " 

Potatoes (white) 1 pound 550 « 385 « 

Water 3 pints 1,500 c.c. 

Butter 1 ounce 30 gm 240 

Cut about 2 pounds weight of any wliite vegetables, wash and peel and 
cut in pieces and boil until soft in the water ; salt and butter. Rub them 
through a sieve or colander, put them back in the stewpan with the milk, 
and let it boil. Put in the flour, mixed smoothly with cold water, let the 
soup boil for ten minutes and serve with slices of fried bread. 

Clear Soup or Consomm6 (Watson) (5). — 

Soup stock 1 quart 1,000 c.c 360 calories 

Lean, juicy beef K pound 260 gm 700 " 

Sugar 1 lump 10 " 41 

Egg 1 whole 50 " 80 « 

The stock should be in the form of a good jelly. 

Method: Carefully remove all fat from the top of the stock, and put 
it into a clean lined saucepan. Wipe the beef with a damp cloth, and 
shred it finely as you would for beef tea, removing all fat and skin. Add 
this to the stock, with the white of the egg and the shell, well washed and 
crushed. Whisk these over the fire with a wire whisk until the soup just 
comes to the boiling point. Then remove the whisk, and let the soup boil 
up. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, where the soup will keep warm 
but not simmer, and cover it with a plate. Let it stand there from ten to 
fifteen minutes. Tie a clean cloth on to the four legs of a chair turned 
upside down, letting it fall slightly in the middle so as to form a bag. 
Pour some boiling water through the cloth into a basin to heat the cloth 
thoroughly. Then strain the soup. It will not be clear the first time, so 
change the basin and pour the soup through again, repeating this process 
until it is quite clear. In repeating, add a lump of sugar, which makes 
the soup sparkle. 

This soup can be varied by the addition of different garnishes, e.g.. 



604 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Consomme and Egg (Watson). — 

Consomm6 1 quart 1,000 gm 110 calories 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 " . .'. 86 « 

Put the clear soup into a saucepan, and bring it to the boil. Beat up 
the egg in a small cup or basin with a fork, and pour it slowly into the 
boiling soup, stirring all the time with a spoon. The egg will curdle in 
the soup, and look like threads of yellow. 

Lentil Sonp (Watson). — Wash the lentils thoroughly in cold water, 
and add them to water in the proportion of % pound lentils to a gallon of 
water or of second stock. Add pepper, salt, onion, turnips, carrot and 
celery. Boil all for three or four hours. Pass through fine wire sieve or 
colander, put on a few minutes to heat, and send to table with toast cut in 
dice. A little curry powder may be added if desired. This soup is some- 
what apt to cause flatulence in those of weak digestion, but if made with 
Benger'? pancreatized lentil flour and without the additional vegetables, 
it will be found very acceptable to the most delicate stomach. Pea soup 
served with dried mint, and haricot bean soup can be made in the same 
way. Fuel value, 100 grams, 130 calories. 

Bmnoise Soup (Watson). — 

Carrot, young 1 (whole) 100 gm 18 calories 

Turnip, young J^ 140 " 6 

Celery 2 leaves 20 " 3 

Flower of small cauliflower 1 small 10 " 1 " 

Onion 1 (whole) 100 « 42 « 

Butter 1 ounce 30 « 240 " 

Milk 1 pint 500 c.c 350 « 

Water 1 « 500 « 

Salt 1 teaspoonful 4 gm . 

Pepper H « 1 " 

Stale bread, toasted 2 ounces 60 " 200 * 

Stew the ingredients together, except the toast, for one hour, then 
break the toast in pieces, add it to the rest, and stew all together for 
another hour. Pass all through a sieve and return to the stewpan to heat. 

Potato Soup (Watson). — 

Potatoes 1 pound 550 gm 385 calories 

Leek 1 (medium) 100 " 40 

Onion 1 " 100 « 42 

Butter 1 ounce 30 " 240 « 

Milk 1 pint 500 c.c 340 « 

Water 1 « 600 " 



37 « 


99 


200 « 


84 


550 « 


145 


300 « 


304 


200 « 


36 


280 « 


12 



MEAT SOUPS 605 

Stew the potatoes, put them with leek, onion and butter into a pint 
of boiling water in a stewpan. Boil until the vegetables are soft, then 
pass them through a sieve, adding a pint of hot milk. Put the mixture 
into the stewpan until it boils. Serve with dice of fried bread. 

Brown Vegetable Soup (Watson). — 

Water 2 quarts 2,000 c.c. 

Butter 1 ounce 30 gm.. 240 calories 

Bread 1 slice 

Onions 2 (whole) , 

Cabbage 1 pound 

Potatoes 2 (whole) 

Carrots 2 " 

Turnip 1 (large) 

Parsley, salt and pepper. 

Fry a slice of onion in a large saucepan. When it is brown, but not 
burned, add water, salt and pepper, bread toasted and vegetables cut into 
small pieces. Boil three or four hours, then rub the vegetables through 
a colander and boil again for ten minutes, when the soup is ready. If 
too thick, add a little more water. 

MEAT SOUPS 

All soups, bouillons and broths consist principally of salts and ex- 
tractive substances. They merely serve as appetizers by exciting the gas- 
tric secretions, and have very little nourishing or caloric value. In atony 
of the stomach, hypersecretion and general hyperesthesia, bouillon is 
contra-indicated, as it increases gastric secretion. During hot weather, 
on account of its tendency to fermentation, bouillon should always be 
freshly prepared. Beef tea is much more nutritious than ordinary 
bouillon, and freshly made beef juice is much more nourishing than any 
of the other preparations. 

General Directions for Soupmaking — In order to expose as large a sur- 
face to the water as possible, the meat is cut up into pieces, while the 
solvent power of the water is increased by the addition of a little vinegar. 
The temperature is kept at a little below 160° P. for several hours. As 
vegetables require a very much greater heat than this to soften them, 
they should either be first boiled, and then the meat should be added, or 
the vegetables can be cooked separately, and only added to the soup when 
it is almost ready. This preserves the color best. Flavoring herbs should 
be put in at the last moment. In all soups made from meat, great care 
should be exercised in the removal of the fat. This is done by making the 



140 " 


6 


4 « 




200 " 


84 


55 « 


101 


4 " 


8 


2 « 


2 


12 " 


2 


12 " 


2 


100 « 


4 



606 PKEPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

soup the day before it is required, putting aside in a basin to cool, and 
when it is quite cold carefully skimming the fat from the top. 

First Stock for Clear Brown Soup (Watson). — 

Shin of beef 1 pound 550 gm 600 calories 

Knuckle of veal 1 « 550 " 615 « 

Cold water 3 quarts 3,000 c.c. 

Carrot 1 (whole) 100 gm.. 18 

Turnip 1 " 

Mixed herbs 1 teaspoonful . . . 

Small onions 2 (whole) 

Celery, or 2 or 3 stalks ... 

Celery seed 1 teaspoonful . . . 

Peppercorns 2 dozen 

Cloves 8 seeds 

Mace 1 blade 12 

Parsley A few stalks 100 

Salt 1 dessertspoonful . . 8 " 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and remove all marrow from the 
bona Take a very sharp knife and cut the meat into small pieces, keeping 
back any fat, but using the skin. Put the bones and meat into a stock pot 
with the cold water and salt, and let them soak for half an hour, then put 
the pot on the fire, and bring the contents slowly to the boil. Simmer for 
half an hour, and then remove any scum that may be on the top. Add 
.the vegetables, prepared and cut rather small, and the herbs, celery seed, 
and peppercorns, etc., tied in a small piece of muslin. Simmer slowly 
from four and a half to five hours, never letting it go off the boil. Then 
strain through a hair sieve or cloth stretched over a colander, and let stand 
until cold. A darker colored stock may be obtained by frying the meat 
in a little dripping or butter before pouring on the water. 

Do not throw away the meat or vegetables left after straining, but put 
them on again with the same quantity of water as before, and boil again 
for second stock. 

Fish Soup (Watson). — 

Small haddock or whiting, or piece 

of cod 4 ounces 100 gm 108 calories 

Butter 14 ounce 15 " 120 

Flour ^ « 15 " 15 " 

Cold water 1 pint 600 c.c. 

Milk 1 gill 166 « 120 

Egg 1 yolk 18 gm 68 " 

Cream }4 gill 80 c.c 139 

Finely chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful 4 gm 2 " 



MEAT SOUPS 607 

Wash and scrape the fish very clean. See that there is no black skin 
lining the inside parts. Remove the eyes. Cut the fish across into several 
pieces, and put them in a lined saucepan, cover with cold water and add 
the salt. Bring to the boil and skim. After the fish has boiled for a few 
minutes, pick out a few of the best pieces of fish, free them from skin and 
bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup. Allow the rest to simmer 
from three-quarters to one hour. Then strain through a wire sieve, and 
rub some of the white pieces through. Rinse out the pan the soup was 
cooked in. Melt in it the butter, add the flour, and mix these two 
smoothlv together, being careful they do not brown. Then pour on the 
soup and stir until boiling. Beat the yolk of egg and cream and milk 
together, and, when the soup is off the boil, beat these ingredients into it. 
Strain through a fine strainer, stirring all the time. Do not let the soup 
boil after the egg is added, or it will curdle. The pieces of fish that were 
reserved and the chopped parsley are now added. 

Egg Dumpling Soup (Wegele). — 

Eggs 2 (whole) 100 gm 160 calories 

Flour (Mounce) 7 " 6 

Thoroughly mix the yolk of the eggs with the flour. Beat stiff the 
whites of two eggs and add to above. Drop the dumplings into the soup 
with a teaspoon, and allow the soup to boil up once or twice. Take out 
the dumplings carefully with a skimmer, so they will not break, put into 
the soup plate and then add the soup. 

Oyster Stew (Fitch).— 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 calories 

Oysters 1 pound 453 gm 230 " 

Salt }4 teaspoonful 1 " 

Butter 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 " 120 '* 

Pepper ^ saltspoon 

Heat the milk. Cook and strain the oyster juice. Add the oysters, 
which have been rinsed, and cook until the edges curl. Add seasoning, 
butter and hot milk. Serve at once. This soup may be thickened with a 
tablespoonful of flour cooked in the butter. 

Sweetbread Soup (Wegele) (6). — The sweetbread is soaked in cold 
water for one hour, the water being renewed frequently during this time. 
It is then boiled for one hour in slightly salted water or beef broth, to 
which may be added one teaspoonful of julienne to improve the taste. 
After it is soft, the sweetbread is taken out of the broth and all blood 
vessels and skin are removed. It may then be cut into pieces the si;^e of 



608 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

a walnut and put on a plate, over which the broth is poured, or the sweet- 
bread may be forced through a sieve, the beef broth poured over this, and 
the whole put on the fire again until it boils, after which the soup may be 
served. This latter process is to be recommended in the case of dyspep- 
tics. One hundred drams of raw sweetbread generate about 90 calories 
of heat. 

Oyster Soup (Watson). — 

Oysters 1 dozen 170 gm 88 calories 

Fish stock or white stock 1 pint 250 c.c 100 " 

Butter 1 ounce 30 gm 240 , " 

Flour 1 " 30 " 30 ' « 

Cayenne a pinch 0.2 " 

Cream 4 tablespoonfuls. ... 160 c.c 278 « 

Egg 1 whole 50 gm 80 « 

Anchovy essence a few drops 

Lemon juice a squeeze 

White pepper and salt 

Place the oysters in a small saucepan with their own liquor, bring 
them almost to the boil, then strain. Beard the oysters (that is, remove 
the piece like a fringe that encircles them), cut them in two, and put them 
aside for stewing in the soup. Put the beards into a saucepan with the 
liquor and the stock, and let them simmer for half an hour to extract all 
the flavor from them. If the stock is not previously well flavored, small 
pieces of the different flavoring vegetables * should also be cooked in 
it. Strain through a fine hair sieve or piece of muslin, and rinse out 
the saucepan ready for use. First melt in it the butter, being careful 
it does not brown, add to it the flour and mix together until quite smooth. 
Pour on the stock, and stir constantly over the fire until boiling. Skim 
if necessary. Season to taste with a little white pepper, salt, anchovy 
essence, and pinch of cayenne. Beat up the yolk of eggs in a basin with 
the cream and strain into the soup. Wlien off the boil, stir all the time. 
Place oysters in the soup tureen, pour the soup over them and serve. 

FARINACEOUS FOODS 

Boiled Rice (U. S. Army Hospital Recipe). — 

Rice 1 ounce 30 gm. 

Salt 20 gm. 

Water 4 ounces 

Put the salt and water into a stewpan. When boiling add the rice, 
previously washed thoroughly. Boil for ten minutes, or until each grain 

1 Volume I, Chapter XVII, page 640. 



FARINACEOUS FOODS 609 

becomes soft. Drain it on a colander. Grease the stewpan with clarified 
drippings or lard. Put back the rice. Let it swell slowly near the fire, 
or in a slow oven, for about twenty minutes, until the grains are well 
separated. 

Boiled rice furnishes 60 calories to 1 tablespoonful. 

Cornmeal Mush (Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Cornmeal 1 ounce 30 gm 100 calories 

Flour ^2 tablespoonful. ... 15 " 40 

Salt H teaspoonful 1 " 

Cold milk H cupful 30 c.c 40 « 

Boiling water 3^ " 125 « 

Mix the meal, flour and salt with the cold milk or water ; when smooth, 
stir into the boiling, water. Cook in a double boiler one hour or more, or 
over direct heat one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. If wanted 
for sauteing turn into tins to cool. Cut into slices, dip in flour and 
saute in drippings or butter. 

Hominy Mush (Pattee). — 

Fine hominy }4 cupful 30 gm 100 calories 

Salt }4: teaspoonful 1 " 

Boiling water IM cups 333 c.c. 

Put all the ingredients together in a dovible boiler and cook two hours. 
Add more water if mush seems stiff and thick. All preparations of corn 
absorb a great deal of water in cooking, and hominy usually needs a little 
more than four times its bulk. 

Note. — Hominy is exceedingly indigestible unless well cooked, but 
sweet and nutritious when subjected to a high temperature for a long time. 

Oatmeal Mush for Children and Invalids (Pattee). — 

Granulated oatmeal 1 cupful 453 gm 380 calories 

Salt 1 teaspoonful 1 " 

Boiling water 1 scant quart 1,000 c.c. 

Put the oatmeal and salt in a double boiler, pour on the boiling water, 
and cook three or four hours. Remove the cover just before serving, and 
stir with a fork to let the steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler 
be strongly salted, the oatmeal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar 
or salt and cream or milk. 

Note. — Baked sour apples, apple sauce and apple jelly are delicious 
eaten with oatmeal. They should be served with the mush, and sugar and 
cream poured over the whole. They give the acid flavor which so many 



610 PKEPAEATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

crave in the morning. Coarse oatmeal is not advisable in any form of 
water brash, acidity or bowel irritations. It often causes eruptions on 
the skin in warm weather. 

Rice and Macaroni (Watson). — These carbohydrates are the basis of 
many nourishing and easily digested Italian dishes. In cooking, the 
directions for boiling rice and macaroni should be closely followed. 

Plain Boiled Rice (Watson). — Wash well some Patna rice in several 
waters until the last water looks quite clean. If there is a pot for steam- 
ing the rice in it is best to use this, but if not, boil the rice in a saucepan 
of boiling water containing salt, which is in the proportion of one tea- 
spoonful to the quart. Boil quickly with the lid off, stirring it frequently 
with a fork to prevent it sticking to the pan. Cook from ten to fifteen 
minutes until the grain will rub down easily when tested between the 
finger and thumb. Strain through a sieve or strainer, and dry the rice 
either by putting it into the saucepan by the side of the fire, or putting it 
on a plate in a moderate oven. While drying, stir lightly with a fork 
every now and then to keep the grains separate. The water in which the 
rice has been boiled contains the best part of the rice, so it should not be 
thrown away, but kept for the stock pot. 

Italian Rice (Cheese and Rice) (Watson). — Boil the rice as directed 
above, strain and pour back into a pan. Put a sufficient quantity of butter 
into a frying pan ; when the butter is melted add the rice, and mix well 
together for two or three minutes. Place the rice in a dish and cover with 
grated Parmesan cheese. 

Boiled Macaroni (Watson). — Break the macaroni into short lengths, 
and throw it into a saucepan of freshly boiling water with salt in it. Boil 
quickly, with the lid off, until it has thoroughly swelled and is tender. 
Stir occasionally, to prevent it sticking. The time depends on the variety 
of the macaroni — the large pipe will take about half an hour, the small 
much longer. Keep it well covered with water. When done, drain. 
Boiled macaroni may either be served plain with meat, or it may be put 
back into the saucepan with enough stock to cover it and allowed to stew 
for half an hour. The pulp of a fresh tomato rubbed through a sieve may 
also be added. 

Farina Dumplings (1) (Wegele). — 

Farina 2 ounces 60 gm 200 calorics 

Boiling milk ^ pound (IH pint8).750 c.c 510 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 « 

Butter bounce 15 « 120 * 



FARINACEOUS FOODS 611 

Pour the farina slowly into the boiling milk to avoid its getting lumpy. 
When thick, take off the fire, add the egg, and put back on the fire, but do 
not let the farina get too hot. Dip a flat spoon into the melted butter, and 
with this drop the farina into the hot milk a spoonful at a time. Place 
the dumplings on a dish and serve at once. 

Farina Dumplings (2) 

Butter 1^ ounces 50 gm 384 calories 

Boiling milk 2}4 pints 1,250 c.c 850 « 

Salt a little 1 gm. 

Farina }4 pound 260 « 800 « 

Eggs 5 (whole) 250 " 400 " 

Put the butter into the boiling milk, add a little salt and the farina. 
Boil until stiff. Let the mixture cool off and add the eggs. Drop the 
dumplings into boiling water with a spoon, and let them boil for about 
one-quarter hour. This portion is large enough for four persons. 

Farina Dumplings (3) — 

Farina 3^ pound 260 gm 800 calories 

Milk 1 pound (2 pints) . 1,000 c.c 680 « 

Eggs 6 (whole) 300 gm 480 " 

Salt aUttle 1 « 

Bread or rolls ...2 slices 75 « 200 « 

Hot butter 

Boil the farina in the milk until soft. Let it cool off, and add the 
eggs and the salt. Cut the bread or rolls into small squares, roast in hot 
butter, add to the farina and mix well. Put everything into a pudding 
dish and let it steam for one hour. 

Potato Dumplings (Pattee). — 

Grated potatoes 20 tablespoonfuls . 1,000 gm 1,120 calories 

Butter ..IM ounces 50 " 384 

Eggs 3 (whole) 150 « 240 « 

Salt a little 1 " 

Farina IH ounces 50 « 180 « 

Boil the grated potatoes the day before using and mash thoroughly. 
Add the butter, mixing thoroughly ; also the yolks of the eggs, stirring in 
one after the other with a little salt. Previously boil the farina in milk 
until it thickens ; let cool a little. Beat the whites of the eggs, mix and 
finally add the grated potatoes. Dip the hands into flour and form length- 
wise dumplings ; boil in salt water for 15 to 20 minutes. 



612 PREPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

BREAD (7) 

Drexel Institute Bread Recipe. — 

Warm milk or water 2 cupf uls 500 c.c 340 calories 

Salt 2 teaspoonfuls. .... 8 gm. 

Sugar 2 " 20 " 82 " 

Lard or butter 1 tablespoonful. . . . 15 " ., 120 

Compressed yeast ]/2 cake 4 " 

Flour 4 pounds 2,000 " 6,500 

Put the water or milk, salt, sugar and fat into a bowl. Gradually add 
the yeast, dissolved in warm water, and the flour. When stiif enough to 
handle, turn the dough on a floured board and knead until soft and elastic. 
Put it back into the bowl, and let it rise in a warm place until it is double 
its bulk. Then divide it into loaves or shape into biscuits. Put these 
into the pan in which they are to be baked, cover them and again allow 
the bread to rise to double its bulk. Bake loaves one hour in a hot oven. 
The large amount of yeast allows the bread to be made and baked in three 
hours. This recipe makes two loaves. 

Brown Bread. — 

Scalded milk Yi. cupful 125 c.c 85 calories 

Water H " 125" 

Salt 1 teaspoonf ul 4 gm. 

Butter )/^ tablespoonful. . . 

Lard H " 

Molasses 2 tablespoonfuls. . 

White flour 3^ cupful 

Graham flour 1 " 

Yeast 5i cake 

Lukewarm water \i cupful 60 c.c. 

Take the above ingredients and sufficient Graham flour to knead, dis- 
solving the yeast in the lukewarm water. Prepare the same as white 
bread. Instead of Graham flour, equal parts of Graham flour and white 
flour may be used in kneading. 

Nut Brown Bread. — The same as preceding, with one cupful of nuts 
chopped and added. 

Whole-wheat Bread. — 

Yeast ^ cake 1 gm. 

Lukewarm water 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 c.c. 

Hot water J^ cupful 125 " 

Milk H " 125 « 85 calories 

Salt y^ teaspoonful 2 gm. 

Whole-wheat flour 1 cupful 553 " 1,624 « 



7 « 


65 


7 " 


65 


30 « 


148 


275 « 


800 


553 " 


1,600 



BEEAD 613 

Dissolve tlie yeast in the lukewarm water. Pour the hot water over 
the milk, and when lukewarm add the yeast and salt. To this add the 
flour, and beat for five minutes. Cover and allow this to stand in a warm 
place for two hours and a half. Then add the whole-wheat flour gradually, 
mixing the mass until it can be kneaded. Knead until elastic ; shape and 
place in baking pans. Cover and allow to stand in a warm place until 
it doubles its bulk. Prick the top with a fork, and bake for one hour. 
The oven should not be hot as for white bread. 

Fulled Bread. — Use bread made with water. Make into long loaves, 
and as soon as baked take off the crust. Pull into stick-shaped pieces and 
brown slightly in a slow oven. 

Zwieback. — Cut stale bread in slices and place in the oven and allow 
to remain until the slice is colored golden brown. Zwieback is a particu- 
larly desirable food for infants and invalids. 

Bran Muffins for Constipation (Musser and Piersol). — 

Bran flour 2 cupfuls 500 gm 100 calories 

Wheat flour 2 " 1,000 " 3,200 " 

Buttermilk 1 cupful 250 c.c 80 " 

Molasses 4 tablespoonfuls. ... 60 gm. 200 " 

Salt a little 

Bake in muffin pans (one to be taken at each meal). 

Graham Bread (Pattee)(8). — Make the same as whole-wheat bread, 
adding two tablespoons of sugar or molasses. Make a batter with white 
flour, using three or four cups, then use whole wheat or graham flour. Let 
rise longer than for white bread, and put immediately into pans without 
second kneading. Bake in a hot oven from forty-flve minutes to one hour, 
depending upon size of loaves. If hard crust is desired, remove from pans 
and cooi in a draft of air. Por soft crust, before bread cools, roll it in a 
clean cloth. 

Note. — Omit sweetening if desired. 

White Gems (Pattee). — 

Flour 2 cups 550 gm 1,600 calories 

Salt 1 teaspoonful . . . 

Rumford baking powder 4 teaspoonfuls. . . 

Butter 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Sugar 2 

Eggs 2 (whole) 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c , 

139 



4 « 
16 " 
30 « 


240 


40 " 


160 


50 " 


160 


550 c.c 


170 



614 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add melted butter, and rub it 
in with tips of fingers. Add the well-beaten eggs and the milk gradually 
and beat all well together. Have gem pans well greased and heated; fill 
two-thirds full, and bake in a very hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Put a little melted butter on each gem before putting it into the oven. 
They are sufficiently cooked when, if tested with a fine washed knitting 
needle, it comes out dry. 

Commeal Gems (Pattee). — 

Flour 1 cupful 265 gm 800 calories 

Cornmeal 3^ " 130 « 380 

Sugar }4 " 100 « 400 

Rumford baking powder 4 teaspoonfuls 16 " 

Salt J^ teaspoonf ul 2 « 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 " 80 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 

Melted butter 1 tablespoonful 15 gm 120 " 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and well-beaten 
egg and the melted butter. Put into well-greased hot gem pans and cook 
in a quick oven. 

TOAST (Pattee) 

In the ordinary cooking of a loaf of bread, the starch, in the outer 
layer, is changed into dextrin, which gives the crust its sweet flavor. 
Slices of bread toasted undergo a similar change. Bread is toasted not 
merely to brown it, but to take out all the moisture possible, so that it may 
be more thoroughly moistened with the saliva, and thus easily digested ; 
also to give it a better flavor. The correct way to make toast is to use 
stale bread cut in uniform slices, and to dry it thoroughly before brown- 
ing. Toast which is prepared in this way, even if moistened with milk 
or water, may be very easily and thoroughly acted iipon by the digestive 
fluids. 

Milk Toast (Pattee). — Put a cup of rich milk in a saucepan and 
place it on the stove. Wliile it is heating, toast three slices of bread to 
a delicate brown, and put them into a covered dish. Wlien the milk is 
scalding hot, season it with a saltspoon of salt, and pour it over the toast. 
This furnishes 388 calories. 

Note. — A little butter may be spread on each slice before the milk is 
added, but it is a more delicate dish without it. 



CEREAL FOODS 615 

Cream Toast (Pattee). — 

Butter 3^ tablespoonf ul. ... 7 gm 80 calories 

Flour H " •••• 7 « 50 « 

Salt Y2 saltspoon 1 " 

Cold water 1 tablespoonf ul. ... 15 c.c. 

Milk. Yi cup 125 " 80 « 

Toast I3^slices 37 gm 75 

Scald milk. Mix flour and salt and add the cold water gradually, 
making a smooth, thin paste. Add to scalded milk; cook in double boiler 
twenty minutes, stirring constantly until it thickens. Add butter. Pour 
over toast and serve hot on hot platter. 

CEREAL FOODS 

Either the gi*ain itself or the specially prepared flour may be used. 
When the grains are used they should be spread on a clean table and all 
foreign substances removed. If the whole grains be nsed, it is well to 
wash them after picking them over, with two or three changes of cold 
water. 

Cereals are best cooked in a double boiler. The lower part should be 
filled about one-third full of water, and, if more is added during the 
cooking, it should always be boiling hot. The cereal should be cooked 
over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. The water should be boiled first 
and then salted. The cereal is added gradually, and the whole stirred to 
prevent it from burning. It should then be placed in a double boiler and 
steamed until thoroughly cooked. Cereals, like other starchy foods, re- 
quire thorough cooking. Most recipes allow too short a time. Oatmeal, 
especially, develops a better fiavor if cooked for three hours or more, and 
it is better when it is prepared the day before and reheated when used. 
It should be just thin enough to pour when taken out of the boiler, and 
when cooled should form a thin jelly. 

Any cereal mush may be thinned with water, milk or cream and made 
into a gruel, or the gruel may be made directly from the grain or flour. 
Gruels should be thin, not too sweet nor too highly flavored, and served 
very hot. Milk gruels should be made in a double boiler. Gruels may 
be made more nutritious by the addition of whipped ^^g, either the white 
or yolk or both, and the various concentrated food products. 

When cereal flours are used the flour should be rubbed to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water and added slowly to boiling water, stirring 
constantly until it is thoroughly mixed. 

Cereals supply actual digestible nutriments to the body more cheaply 



616 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

than any other class of foods, except the dried legumes. All animal 
foods, especially meats, are more expensive, even as sources of protein, 
than cereals. A glance at their composition shows that they are chiefly 
fuel foods, because of their high carbohydrate content. Their cost varies 
with the cost of labor and fuel in preparing the foods. The compara- 
tively expensive ready-to-eat breakfast foods do not yield any extra nutri- 
tive value. Their only advantages are pleasant flavors and ease of serving. 
Cereal products yield on the average between 1,600 and 1,700 calories 
per pound. 

LENGTH OF TIME TO COOK CEREALS 

Commeal mush Boil 10 minutes, then steam for 3 hours or more 

Oatmeal "10 " « « " 4^ " " « 

Irish oatmeal "10 « " " "8 " " " 

Wheatena "10 « « « « 2^ " " " 

Gluten mush " 30 " 

Steamed rice " 1 hour 

Boiled rice " 20 minutes, or until soft. 

GRUELS 

Oatmeal Gruel 

Granulated oatmeal 2 tablespoonfuls. ... 45 gm 184 calories 

Table salt 1 saltspoonful 2 " 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 10 " 41 " 

Water (boiling) 1 cup 250 c.c. 

Milk 1 « 300 " 216 " 

Mix the oatmeal, salt and sugar together, and pour on the boiling 
water. Cook for thirty minutes, then strain through a fine wire strainer 
to remove the hulls. Place again on the stove, add the milk and heat just 
to the boiling point. Serve hot. This gruel furnishes 425 calories. 

Flour Gruel. — Proceed as in making oatmeal gruel, using, instead, 
two tablespoonfuls of wheat flour. Flavor with lemon juice, cinnamon, 
nutmeg or vanilla. Energy value about 400 calories. 

Farina Gruel. — Proceed as in making oatmeal gruel, using, instead, 
two tablespoonfuls of farina, and boil but ten minutes before adding the 
milk. Energy value about 275 calories. 

Imperial Granum Gruel. — As in the preceding, but use Imperial Granum 
instead of farina. Same caloric value. 

Cracker Gruel No. 1 

Cracker crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls. ... 45 gm 175 calories 

Use the cracker crumbs and proceed as above. Cook only two or three 
minutes and do not strain. 



CEREAL FOODS 617 

Cracker Gruel No. 2 (Drexel Institute). — Brown the crackers, and 
reduce to a powder by means of a rolling pin. Add three tablespoonfuls 
of the powdered crackers to half a cupful of milk and half a cupful of 
boiling water. Cook for ten minutes, then add one-fourth of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and serve. Energy value about 250 calories. 

Racahout des Arabes (Gautier) (9). — This is a French preparation 
with a chocolate flavor which makes a most delicious gruel. A home- 
made racahout may be made as follows : 

Cocoa 1 pound 453 gm 2,320 calories 

Confectioner's powdered sugar. .1 " 453 " 1,875 " 

Rice flour 1 « 453 «. 1,630 

Arrowroot flour 2 ounces 56 " 60 " 

Sugar of milk 2 « 56 « 224 

Mix the above ingredients thoroughly. Follow the directions given 
for farina gruel. 

Flour Ball — Tie half a pint of flour in a square of fine cheesecloth, 
making a very tight ball. Place this in a pot of boiling water and cook 
for four or five hours. After taking out of the cloth, peel off the outside 
and grate the hard ball. Dry in the oven and keep in a covered jar. 
This is useful for making gruels for diluting milk for infants. 

Flour Ball Gruel. — Proceed as for oatmeal gruel, using two teaspoon- 
fuls of the above grated flour rubbed up in one-half cup cold water, and 
stirring into a pint of boiling water. Cook this for ten minutes. This 
will furnish 15 calories to 100 c.c. 

Meal Soup — 

Wheat flour 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 60 gm 45 calories 

Water 3^ pint 250 c.c. 

Milk 3^ " 250 " 170 " 

This is prepared by browning the v/heat flour in a clean frying pan, 
stirring continuously. The water and milk are brought to a boil, and a 
heaping tablespoonful of the browned flour is blended with water and then 
stirred into the mixture. 

Commeal Gruel No. 1 (Pattee). — 

Cornmeal 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 60 gm 45 calories 

Flour 1 " ... 30 « 25 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 10 " 41 " 

Salt 1 tablespoonful ... 4 " 

Hot water 1 quart 500 c.c. 

Milk 1 cupful 250 « 170 " 



618 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Proceed as in making oatmeal gruel, cooking in a double boiler for 
three hours. 

Commeal Gmel No. 2. — Take a tablespoonful of cornmeal and moisten 
with a little cold water. Stir this into a pint of boiling water to which 
a pinch of salt has been added. Cook for three hours in a double boiler, 
or for thirty minutes directly over the fire. In the latter case it must be 
stirred constantly. 

Gluten Gruel (Drexel Institute). — 

Gluten flour 1 tablespoonful. ... 30 gm 30 calories 

Cold water \i cupful 125 c.c. 

Boiling salted water 1 « 250 " 

Mix the gluten flour with the cold water and stir this into the boiling 
salted water. Cook directly over the fire for fifteen minutes, then add one 
clove and cook over boiling water for a half hour. 

Barley and Oatmeal Jelly 

From the Grain. — Prepare the grain as directed for barley water. 
Use from four to six tablespoonfuls of grain to the quart of water. Boil 
thoroughly for several hours until the grain is thoroughly cooked. Strain 
and cool. The jelly, when hot, should be just thick enough to pour. This 
furnishes about 28 calories to 100 grams. 

From. Prepared Flours. — Use two tablespoonfuls of the flour to a pint 
of water. Boil from fifteen to thirty minutes and strain. 

Egg Gruel. — 

Hot beef broth 1 cupful 250 c.c 36 calories 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 

Salt }4 teaspoonful 2 " 

Take the beef broth made with "Soluble Beef," the egg and salt. Beat 
the white and the yolk of the egg separately, add the hot beef broth gi'ad- 
ually to the yolk, stirring continually. Whip the white to a stiff, dry 
froth with the salt, and beat it into the hot broth. Return to the double 
boiler and reheat. Serve very hot. 

Barley Gruel with Beef Extract. — 

" Soluble Beef " 3^ teaspoonful 2 gm 20 calories 

Hot water 2 cupfuls 500 c.c. 

Barley flour 1 tablespoonful. ... 20 gm 22 " 

Salt 1 saltspoonful 2 « 

Dissolve the beef in the hot water, and mix the flour and salt together 
with a little cold water. Pour the boiling stock on the flour and cook for 
ten minutes. Strain and serve verv hot. 



CEKEAL FOODS 619 

Barley Meal Gruel (Watson). — 

Barley meal 1 dessertspoonful . . 10 gm 15 calories 

Milk 3^ pint 250 c.c 170 

Butter Small piece 15 gm 120 « 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 10 " 41 " 

Salt M " 1 " 

Mix the milk very gradually with the meal, stirring until quite 
smooth. Take a small lined saucepan, and after rinsing with cold water 
pour the barley and milk into it. Stir constantly over the fire until boil- 
ing, let it boil ten minutes, season and serve very hot. 

Port Wine Gruel (Watson). — Make a gruel with oatmeal or barley 
meal and water, then thin it down with a glass of port wine; heat thor- 
oughly, but do not boil again. 

Arrowroot Gruel (Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Arrowroot 2 teaspoonfuls 25 gm 26 calories 

Cold water 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 15 c.c. 

Boiling milk 1 cupful 250 " 170 " 

Salt a pinch 1 gm. 

Sugar (lemon j nice, wine or brandy 
as required) K teaspoonful 10 "..... 20 " 

Blend the arrowroot and cold water to a smooth paste. Add to the 
boiling water or milk. Cook in double boiler two hours. Add salt. 
Strain and serve hot. Arrowroot is the purest form of starch, and bene- 
ficial in cases of diarrhea if not given too hot. 

Barley Gruel (Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Barley flour 1 tablespoonful. ... 30 gm 40 calories 

Cold milk 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c 24 « 

Scalded milk 1 cupful 250 " 170 

Salt. 

Blend the barley flour with the cold milk and stir into the scalding 
milk. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. Season with salt to taste, 
and add sugar if desired. Strain. 

Flour Gruel or Thickened Milk (Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Scalded millc ^ cupful 188 c.c 128 calories 

Cold milk H " 62 " 42 " 

Flour ^ tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 20 " 

Salt speck 1 " 

Raisins 1 dozen 8 « 20 

Mix the flour with the cold milk to make a smooth mixture, and stir 
into the scalding milk. Cook in a double boiler one-half hour or on back 



620 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

of stove in a saucepan. Stone and quarter the raisins, then add water 
enough to cover. Cook slowly until water has all boiled away. Add to 
gruel just before serving. Add salt Strain and serve, or it may be e^ten 
with the raisins in it. This gruel may also be made without the raisins. 
Never use raisins in bowel troubles. 

Oatmeal Gmel (Watson). — 

Coarse oatmeal K cupful 100 gm 201 calories 

Water 2 cupfuls 500 c.c. 

Salt Yi. teaspoonf ul 2 gm. 

Milk y2 cupful 125 c.c 85 « 

Pound the oatmeal in a mortar until it is mealy, then put it into a 
tumbler and fill it with cold water. Stir, and pour off the mealy water 
into a saucepan. Fill tumbler again, stir and pour off, and repeat until 
the above quantity of water is exhausted. Boil the oatmeal water thirty 
minutes, stirring frequently. Season with salt to taste. Thin with milk 
or cream to desired consistency. 

EGGS 

Eggs are a very concentrated food, one ^^'^ being equal in nutriment 
to 40 grams, 1^ ounces of fat; or two eggs, equal to about 5 ounces of 
cow's milk. The digestibility of eggs is influenced by the mode of prepa- 
ration. They are a rather fatty food and contain fat and albumin in 
about equal proportion, 5 to 6 per cent. Egg albumin is almost entirely 
peptonized in the stomach, and the fat of the yolk is almost completely 
split up before reaching the small intestine. Hard-boiled eggs are dif- 
ficult to digest by weak stomachs, and may even be the cause of painful 
sensations for the reason that the coarse albumin, which is not readily 
dissolved, irritates the sensitive mucous membrane of the stomach ; if 
taken in pulverized form they will cause no disturbance. Omelet .souffle 
and fried eggs are difficult of digestion, while soft-boiled eggs and 
poached eggs are more easily and readily digested. Eggs for the invalid 
or convalescent, whether partaken of raw or cooked, should be perfectly 
fresh. Eggs are a very nourishing food for children on account of the 
lecithin and phosphates. 

Eggs are exceedingly valuable as a food for invalids. They should 
not be kept with any article of food having an odor, as they absorb such 
odors and the taste is thereby impaired. Stale eggs will not sink, and if 
held to a bright light they show a dark spot. The yolk of an egg that has 



EGGS 621 

been broken may be kept fresh by placing it (unbroken) in a cupful of 
cold water. This should be set in a cool place. This will keep it fresh 
for twenty-four hours or more. Eggs and all other albuminous food 
should be cooked at as low temperatures as possible, in order to avoid 
rendering them tough. 

Eggs are best cooked in the shell as follows : 

Soft-cooked Eggs — Place in a pint of boiling water, remove from the 
fire, and allow to stand for eight or ten minutes. If the egg is very cold 
to start with, it will take a little longer. 

Hard-cooked Eggs. — Place in water, bring to a boil, and then set on 
the back part of the stove for twenty minutes. Eggs should be served 
as soon as cooked, and the dishes should be warmed and ready. One 
ordinary egg, 50 grams, 80 calories. 

How to Make an Omelet (Watson). — Break the eggs into a bowl, add 
salt and pepper, and beat them with a fork for about a minute, not longer 
as a rule. When the eggs are sufficiently beaten they "run" off the fork 
in a homogeneous liquid, without any glutinous appearance. It is not 
necessary to beat for several minutes, with the idea that the more the 
eggs are beaten the lighter the omelet. This is a great mistake, as too 
much beating causes eggs to lose their consistency. It is, however, better 
to beat too much than too little. Place the pan on the fire to warm it, and 
put in a small piece of butter — about the size of a hazel-nut for an omelet 
of 2 or 3 eggs. Add the contents of the bowl when the butter steams. If 
this precaution is taken, the omelet will not catch, as the high temperature 
of the butter isolates the eggs. It is, therefore, a mistake to shake the 
eggs directly they are poured into the pan.. But a second or two later, the 
fork must be passed round the sides of the pan to loosen the eggs, and 
then they are worked in all directions with the back of the fork as if they 
were scrambled. When they are sufficiently cooked, they look, in fact, 
almost like scrambled eggs ; but now the omelet is shaken on to one side 
of the pan, and with the fork one-half is folded on the other and slid on 
to the dish. The shape of the omelet is thus obtained without difficulty, 
and the heat of one-half just finishes the cooking of the other as it rests 
upon it. 

Omelet Souffle (Sweet) (Watson).— 

White sugar 1 tablespoonful. ... 40 gm 160 calories 

Salt a pinch 1 " 

Eggs 2 (whole) 100 " 160 

Powdered vanilla a little ^4 " 



622 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Take two bowls; put into one of them 1 teaspoonful of white sugar, 
into the other a pinch of salt. Break 2 eggs, separate the yolks, and drop 
one yolk at a time into the bowl containing the sugar ; whip them well with 
a wooden spoon until they become creamy like mayonnaise. Add a little 
powdered vanilla to another one-half teaspoonful of sugar, and mix with 
the yolks. Put the whites of the eggs into the bowl containing the salt, and 
whip into a stiff froth. Mix with the yolks as lightly as possible, and 
pour the contents into a buttered dish in the shape of a pyramid. Cover 
it with sifted sugar and leave it for three or four minutes on the side of 
the 8to\e. Then put it into the oven for ten to twelve minutes, turning 
the dish occasionally to color it on all sides. Make two or three incisions 
with a knife, and serve immediately. This omelet must be eaten as soon 
as it is cooked, or it loses both its shape and its delicacy. 

Snowball Eggs (Watson). — 

Eggs 3 (whole) 150 gm 240 calories 

Powdered white sugar 1 tablespoonful. ... 40 " 160 " 

Milk 1 pint 250 c.c 170 

Rind of lemon or vanilla 
Sugar to taste 

Place 1 pint of milk in a saucepan on the fire with the rind of a lemon 
or a little vanilla, and sufficient white sugar to sweeten. Break 3 eggs, 
separating the white from the yolk. Beat the whites of the eggs into a 
stiff froth, adding a small pinch of salt. When sufficiently stiff, add the 
sugar and mix briskly. Take a teaspoonful of this mixture and throw it 
into the boiling milk in the saucepan ; turn it three minutes later, remove 
it with a skimmer. Take as many spoonfuls of white of egg as remain 
and cook them in a similar manner, three or four at a time. (If the white 
has been beaten sufficiently stiffly, when cooked each spoonful will be a 
compact mass.) Arrange the snowballs in a pyramid on a dish. Pour the 
remainder of the milk from the saucepan into the yolks of the eggs ; put 
this mixture into another saucepan on the fire, stir it constantly with a 
spoon, and let it thicken without boiling. Pass it through a strainer, and 
when cold pour it over the snowballs in the dish. 

Prairie Oyster (Watson). — 

Fresh egg 1 (whole) 50gm 80 calories 

Vinegar 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 c.c. 

Put the vinegar into a small cup and break the egg into it. Serve at 
once. This is a very digestible way of serving an egg, and it is very cool 
and refreshing. 



EGGS 623 

Egg Drink (Watson). — 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 calories 

Milk 1 teacup 250 c.c 170 

Sugar 1 teaspoonf ul 10 gm 41 " 

Sherry wine 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 c.c 21 " 

Beat up the egg, add to it the wine and sugar, beat together with a 
fork slightly, and strain through a fine wire strainer. Heat the milk in 
a small saucepan, and when almost boiling pour it on to the egg, stirring 
all the time. Serve hot. This can be made without wine, flavoring with 
cinnamon or lemon juice. The yolk of the egg only may be used, and soda 
water may take the place of milk. 

Poached Egg (Watson). — 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 calories 

Boiling water 1 cupful 250 c.c. 

Lemon juice 1 teaspoonful 15 " 

Salt a pinch 1 gm. 

Toast }4 shce 10 " 31 

Break the egg into a cup, keeping the yolk whole. To a small sauce- 
pan of boiling water add a pinch of salt and a squeeze of lemon juice. 
Draw the water to the side, and when just off the boil slip the egg care- 
fully into it. Cook slowly for three minutes, when the white should be 
quite set. Lift it out with a small fish slice or perforated spoon, and trim 
off any ragged edges of white. Place on a square of newly-made toast, 
and serve at once. 

If required, this egg can be made richer by being served on buttered 
toast, or by having a little hot cream poured over it. A poached egg 
served on 2 tablespoonfuls of carefully prepared spinach is also a very nice 
dish. 

Rumbled Egg (Watson). — 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 calories 

Milk 1 tablespoonful 15 c.c. 15 " 

Pepper and salt a pinch of each .... 1 gm. 

Butter 3^ ounce 7 « 60 " 

Toast (dry) a piece 10 " 31 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan. Pour into the hot milk the egg 
beaten up in a cup with pepper and salt. Stir quickly over the fire until 
it begins to thicken, then remove it from the fire and continue stirring 
until it forms a creamy mixture. Put on a piece of newly-made toast, 



624 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

and serve at once. If cooked too long, or allowed to stand, it becomes 
leathery and indigestible. 

Poached Eggs with Cheese (Watson). — 

Eggs 4 (whole) 200 gm 320 calories 

White sauce 1 gill 

Butter 7 ounces 30 " 240 

Breadcrumbs 3 tablespoonfub. . . 65 " 250 " 

Pepper and salt a pinch of each ... 1 " 

Grated cheese 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 60 " 273 « 

Butter a flat dish and sprinkle it with half the breadcrumbs and 
cheese. Poach the eggs and place them on the top. Then pour over the 
sauce, and put the rest of the cheese and breadcrumbs on the top. Lay on 
a few small pieces of butter, and place in a hot oven to melt the cheese 
and lightly brown the top. 

FISH 

Fish contains a large quantity of protein and gelatinous substances. 
In the dietary of patients suffering from gastric disturbances, fish such 
as eel, salmon and herring should be excluded, the first two on account 
of the excess of fat contained, and the last on account of its excess in 
salts. The nutritive value of fish, generally speaking, is about equal to 
that of veal, and in the uric acid diathesis, fish is better borne than meat. 
Oysters are less digestible than is commonly believed (10). 

Baked Fish (Watson).— 

Uncooked butterfish \i pound 113 gm 200 calories 

Breadcrumbs 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 45 " 175 " 

Pepper, salt and a little lemon 
juice 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 « 80 " 

Milk H gill 125 c.c 85 « 

Butter J^ ounce 15 gm 120 " 

Grease a small pie dish with a little of the butter. Have the fish free 
from skin and bone, and cut it into neat pieces. Lay half of these pieces 
in the bottom of the pie dish, sprinkle over them a little white pepper, 
salt and a squeeze of lemon juice, and then put on a layer of breadcrumbs. 
Next, put in the rest of the fish, seasoning and more crumbs. Beat up 
the egg; in a basin, add the milk to it, and strain this into the dish. Put 
the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top and wipe round the edges 
of the dish. Bake in the oven until nicely browned. 



FISH 625 

Steamed Sole or Whiting (Watson). — 

Whiting 1 pound 453 gm 700 calories 

Butter 1 ounce 30 " 240 

Flour 1 " 30 " 22 

Milk 1 gill 125 c.c 85 « 

Lemon slice 

Skin and fillet the fish, wash and dry the fillets, and put them in a jam 
pot which is placed in a saucepan half full of boiling water. Cover tightly 
and let boil for ten minutes. Mix the butter with the flour in a saucepan 
over the fire. Add the milk and liquor from the fish, and cook for ten 
minutes, stirring well. Pour this sauce over the fillets and garnish with 
the lemon. 

Steamed Fish (Watson). — 

Haddock, whiting or sole 1 pound, filleted. . . . 453 gm 340 calories 

Salt and white pepper a pinch of each. .... 1 " 

Butter bounce 15 " 120 « 

Lemon juice a squeeze 

This is the lightest and simplest mode of cooking fish for an invalid. 
Cut the fillets of fish into neat-sized pieces ; grease a soup plate or muffin 
dish with a little butter, and place the fish on this. Sprinkle it with a 
little salt and white pepper if this is allowed, and squeeze over it some 
lemon juice, which helps to keep the fish firm and white. Cover with a 
piece of greased white paper, and then with a lid or basin. Place this 
over a pan half full of boiling water, seeing that the plate fits well on the 
pan. Keep the water in the pan boiling, so that there may be plenty of 
steam, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, until the fish loses its 
clear, transparent appearance and looks quite white. If the pieces are 
thick, it is better to turn them while cooking. The liquid that is on the 
plate when the fish is cooked is the juice from the fish, and should be 
served with it. Serve with a little plain cold butter and a piece of plain 
bread or toast. 

Stewed Fish (Watson).— 

Filleted fish, whiting, haddock, 

sole, plaice 1 (whole) 2 pounds. . . 1,000 gm.. ... . . 1,400 calories 

Breadcrumbs 1 tablespoonful 22 ** 80 " 

Chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful 4 " 5 " 

Milk 1 gill 125 c.c 85 « 

Butter 1 ounce 30 gm 240 « 

Pepper (white) a pinch" 0.5 " 

Cold water, 1. gill 125 c.c. 



626 PEEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Wipe the fish with a damp cloth and cut it into small, neat pieces. 
Rinse out a lined saucepan with water, and place the pieces of fish in the 
bottom. Sprinkle over them a little salt and white pepper, pour in the 
milk and water, put the lid on the pan, and let the fish cook slowly by the 
side of the fire until it is ready, which will be in about fifteen minutes. 
Do not overcook, or the fish will be hard. Lift out the pieces of fish on 
to the plate on which they are to be served, and keep them hot. Add the 
breadcrumbs and the butter to the water and milk in the pan. Stir over 
the fire for a few minutes until the breadcrumbs swell and thicken the 
sauce. Sprinkle in the minced parsley, and then pour this sauce over the 
fish. 



Fish are allowable for old people. The oily fishes — such as salmon, 
herring, mackerel — are the only ones that are apt to disagree with diges- 
tion, xmless taken in small quantities. In addition to the usual methods 
of boiling, frying and baking fish already described, a variety of dishes 
may be made from this class of food that are found to be appetizing as 
well as quite satisfying. 

Fish Baked in Batter (Watson). — 

Uncooked fish, haddock or sole. . 3^ pound 113 gm 90 calories 

Flour 1 ounce 28 " 240 

Milk H gill 65 c.c 45 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 « 

Butter y^ ounce 15 " 120 « 

Pepper, salt and lemon juice 

First make the batter, rub the flour through a wire sieve, to free it 
from lumps, and put it into a basin. Beat up the ^^f^ with a fork and add 
it to the flour ; beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth and free from 
lumps. Then add the milk and beat for a few minutes longer. The more 
the batter is beaten the lighter it will ba 

Have the fish free from skin and bone, and cut into small pieces. Lay 
these in the bottom of a small greased pie dish, and season with pepper, 
salt and a squeeze of lemon juice. Pour the batter over them, and put 
the butter in small pieces on the top. Allow this to stand for a few 
minutes before cooking, as this gives time for the flour in the batter to 
swell, and makes it lighter when baked. Bake in a quick oven from 
twelve to fifteen minutes until well risen and nicely browned. Serve at 
once, as the batter quickly falls. 



FISH 627 

Fish Souffle (Watson). — 

Uncooked fish \i pound 113 gm 90 calories 

Butter 3^ ounce 15 " .120 

Flour K " 15 " 10 « 

Fish stock or milk H giU 65 c.c 45 " 

Eggs 2 (whole) 100 gm 160 

Pepper, salt and lemon juice. . . .a pinch of each 

First make a panada with the butter, flour and fish. This is done by 
melting the butter in a small saucepan, adding the flour and mixing until 
it is smooth with a wooden spoon. Then pour on the milk or fish stock, 
and stir nntil the mixture is thick and free from lumps and leaves the 
sides of the pan quite clean. 

Scrape the fish down finely with a knife. Put the panada into a 
mortar with the fish, seasoning and yolks of eggs. Pound well together 
and rub through a sieve. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiif froth, and 
stir lightly into the fish mixture with an iron spoon. Pour into a greased 
basin, which should be only half full. Cover with a greased paper. Steam 
for twenty minutes. When firm, lift it out and turn out on a hot plate. 

Panned Oysters (Watson). — 

Oysters (deep-sea) 6 (whole) 90 gm 44 calories 

Salt, pepper a pinch of each ... 1 " 

Butter 3^ ounce 15 « 120 « 

Meat stock 1 teaspoonf ul 4 c.c 4 " 

Lemon thin slice 

Place the oysters in a colander and pour cold water over them. Drain 
for ten minues, then place in a very hot iron pan, add the salt, pepper, 
butter and meat stock. Cook for a few minutes and serve the oysters 
garnished with the lemon. 

Broiled Oysters (Watson). — 

Oysters (large) 6 (whole) 90 gm 44 calories 

Salt and cayenne pepper a pinch of each. . . 1 " 

Heated beef juice Y2 ounce 15 c.c 15 " 

Melted butter K " 15 " ....120 

Lay the oysters on a board and dry them, season with the salt and 
cayenne pepper. Have a gridiron thoroughly heated, place the oysters 
on the gridiron, and brown them on both sides. Serve on a very warm 
plate with the beef juice and melted butter poured around them. 



628 PEEPABATIOK OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AKD FOODS 

POULTRY 

The flesh of poultry or barnyard fowls is characterized by short mus- 
cular fibers and a minimum amount of fat. The birds coming under this 
classification have already been referred to at length in the chapter on 
"Animal Foods" (Volume I, Chapter XII, page 296). They have an 
abundance of white flesh, which is most easy of digestion, being tender 
and of a delicate flavor. A young, well-fed chicken is the most digestible 
of all animal foods. Short-legged fowls are more delicate in flavor. As 
for age, a one-year-old cock will be found too tough for roasting or braiz- 
ing, and only suitable for stews or soups. The flavor and tenderness of 
the young cockerel are greatly improved by caponizing, which has already 
been described in the reference just given. 

Chicken Salad (Pattee). — 

Cut chicken ]/2 pound 225 gm 465 calories 

Cut celery 1 cup 250 « 85 

Nicelle olive oil 1 ounce (2 table- 
spoonfuls) 28 « 121 « 

Salt 1 saltspoonful 1 " 

Pepper ]4 « 0.5" 

Vinegar 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 c.c. 

Mayonnaise 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 42 gm 187 " 

Cut the cold chicken into small dice and cut the cleaned celery into 
small uniform pieces. Mix these together and pour over the oil. Mix 
well, then sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste; add the vinegar; blend 
and put in colander to drain ; set in a cold place for two or three hours. 
Just before serving add the mayonnaise, put on a bed of lettuce and 
garnish. The above quantity is sufficient for six servings. Use mayon- 
naise, olives, celery leaves or white lettuce for garnishing. 

Note. — Do not mince chicken. 

Broiled Chicken (Watson). — 

Small chicken 1 pound 453 gm .890 calories 

Butter 1 ounce 30 « 240 " 

Pepper and salt \^ teaspoonf ul of each 2 " 

Prepare a young chicken for roasting, split it down the back, lay it 
open, and take only half at a time. Rub the piece of chicken over with 
a little butter to keep the skin from cracking, and season with pepper and, 
salt Grease the gridiron and make it thoroughly hot. Lay the chicken . 
on it with the cut side down. Broil either on the top of or before a clear 



POULTRY 629 

fire for about Kalf an hour. When cooked, lift on to a very hot plate and 
rub the rest of the butter over it. Serve with rolls of bacon round it. If 
broiling an older fowl it must be partially cooked first, either by boiling or 
roasting. It may be eaten with or without bread sauce. 

Stewed Partridge (Watson). — 

Partridge M pound 225 gm 465 calories 

Butter M ounce 15 " 120 

Flour 1 teaspoonful 45 « 150 " 

Mace 1 blade 0.5" 

Lemon Y^ with rind 

Pepper and salt 3^ saltspoonf ul 

Cut the partridge into joints and take out the largest bones. Put the 
butter into a small stewpan. When it gets hot put in the best parts of the 
partridge and dry very carefully. Add to this a small bit of lemon 
peel, mace, pepper and salt, then add the flour and 1 teacupful of water, 
and the bones that were removed. When this boils up put on the lid, and 
let it stew slowly for three-quarters of an hour, or until tender. Take up 
the best bits on a dish and strain the gravy over them. All game is easily 
digested when cooked in this way. 

Roast Poultry (Wegele). — It is best to buy fresh-killed poultry. Clean, 
remove feathers and hang in a cool place for at least one day; in the 
winter for 2 to 3 days. The roasted skin of poultry should never be 
served to those having stomach trouble, as it is very indigestible. A 
pound will contain about 890 calories. 

Capons (Wegele). — Capons and pullets should be roasted with very 
little butter, as they contain a great deal of fat. Baste constantly and 
roast about one and one-half to two hours. A pound capon will yield 
about 1,465 calories. 

Boiled Broilers and Squabs (Wegele). — Prepare the same as for roast- 
ing. Put into slightly salted, boiling bouillon with a handful of dry 
vegetables, and boil about one to one and a quarter hours. Very young 
pigeons or squabs will be done in three-quarters of an hour; also very 
young chickens or broilers. A pound broiler or squab yields about 1,430 
calories. 

Stewed or Potted Broilers and Squabs (Wegele). — Prepare broilers or 
squabs as for roasting. Cut into four equal parts, add a little salt, and 
stew exactly like stewed veal for about three-quarters of an hour. Sauce 
to be prepared the same as for stewed veal. Medium size average a pound. 
Caloric value about 1,290 calories. 

140 



630 PEEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

MEATS 

General Rules for Preparing Meat. — Meat must be weighed, trimmed, 
and wiped with a damp cloth. It should be removed immediately from 
the paper in which it has been wrapped and placed in a cool place. Only 
tender cuts of meat should be broiled, pan-broiled or roasted. When meat 
is to be cooked by any of these methods, it should first be seared, and then 
the temperature slightly lowered. By searing, the albumin on the outer 
surface of the meat is hardened, and the meat is thus cooked in its own 
juices. 

Tough meat should be cooked in water. Boiling water hardens the 
albumin on the outer surface of the meat and prevents the juices from 
escaping. Meat should be put in boiling water and the water allowed to 
boil for ten or fifteen minutes, then the cooking should be allowed to pro- 
ceed at a low temperature until the meat is tender. If the water bubbles 
it is too hot. Cooked in this way tough meat will become tender. The 
time required for roasting or cooking in water varies with the weight 
and quality of the meat (see Volume II, Chapter III). 

Roast meat is more easily digested than boiled meat, provided the 
connective tissue has been made more soluble by hanging the meat up in 
the refrigerator for a few days before cooking, thereby bringing about a 
post-mortem lactic acid process. Meat rich in fat is acted upon with 
greater difficulty by the gastric juice than lean meat. For instance, calf's 
brain, although very soft, contains much fat and is not well tolerated by 
the invalid or convalescent. Venison, hare and deer meat have a less fat 
content than beef, but the disadvantage of tougher muscular fiber. Meat 
of young animals is more tender than that of old ones, and hence prefer- 
able. Mild smoked ham is very nourishing, and if there is no danger of 
trichinsB may be eaten with impunity uncooked. 

Roasting. — Skewer the meat into shape. Place it on a rack in a meat 
pan, in the bottom of which pieces of fat from the meat have been 
placed. Put in a hot oven on the grate for ten minutes to sear the meat 
If desired, it may be seasoned with salt and pepper. Then remove to the 
floor of the oven and baste every ten minutes until it is done. 

Broiling. — Remove extra fat from the meat and grease the broiler 
with a part of the fat. Broil over a clear fire ; sear, and then turn every 
ten seconds. Chops one inch thick should be cooked for five minutes. A 
steak two inches thick should be cooked for ten minutes. Season and 
serve on a hot platter. 



MEATS 631 

Pan-broiling (Drexel Institute). — Remove all the fat from the meat. 
Heat a frying-pan very hot, but use no fat. Sear the meat on both sides, 
and then cook more slowly until it is done. Stand chops up on their 
edges to brown. Keep the pan free from fat. The time required for pan- 
broiling is the same as that required for broiling. 

Beef Pulp (Caultey). — Scrape a piece of raw lean rump or sirloin 
steak with a fork or meat scraper until as much as possible of the muscu- 
lar tissue has been obtained, separated from the tendinous parts. Pound 
it in a mortar to a pulp, and then rub it through a fine sieve. Season with 
pepper and salt. It may be taken in the form of sandwiches, or rolled 
up into small rissoles and lightly grilled or fried. 

Very little of the nutriment of the meat is lost in this process. 

Beef Quenelles (Watson). — 

Beefsteak 1 pound 453 gm 1,130 calories 

Breadcrumbs 4 tablespoonfuls 32 " 45 " 

Salt and pepper to taste. . . -M teaspoonful of each. . . 1 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 " 80 « 

Stock 2 tablespoonfuls 30 c.c 20 

Pound the beefsteak, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, egg and stock well 
in a mortar, rub through sieve, shape with tablespoons and poach in 
shallow pan for ten minutes in boiling water. Pour a gravy made of 
thickened beef tea round the quenelles and serve with sippets of toast. 
This is a very digestible dish, nutritious and readily absorbed. 

Roast Veal (Wegele). — 

Loin of veal 6 pounds 3,000 gm 4,540 calories 

Fresh pork 1 pound 450 « 2,780 

Hot butter or hot beef fat . .a little less than ^ pound 200 « 1,590 

In summer veal must soak in sweet milk for one or two days, in winter 
about 2 to 4 days, to make it soft and tender. Before preparing the meat 
it must be thoroughly washed, the skin removed and the meat well salted. 
Lard the meat with fresh pork and roast in hot butter or hot beef fat, 
using the above number of grams. The roasting is the same as for other 
meats, but it must be well done and will take one and one-quarter to two 
hours. 

If the bone is not removed, a good juice will come forth, and after the 
fat has been removed the addition of a little bouillon (no flour) will give 
a nice sauce. 

Ordinary serving — 100 grams, 174 calories. 



632 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Boast Venison (Wegele). — Roast in hot butter and baste frequently; 
one hour required for roasting, except for loin of venison, which is not so 
tender and will take two and one-half hours to roast. Sauce to be pre- 
pared same as the roast fillet sauce. Sour cream can be added to the 
sauce. 

Ordinary serving, 100 grams, 240 calories. 

Hamburger Steak (Wegele). — 

Beef Yi pound 250 gm 660 calories 

Cold salted bouillon 4 tablespoonfuls. . . 120 c.c 13 " 

Take a nice piece of beef, chop about 250 grams (a tumblerful), and 
add the bouillon. If bouillon is not available, use salted water. Fry the 
meat about ten minutes. Chopped veal can be prepared in the same way. 

Stewed Sweetbreads (Wegele). — Cook the sweetbreads until very soft, 
remove skin, cut in halves, and put into hot butter sauce for 10 minutes 
before serving. The sauce is prepared in this way : Take a piece of butter, 
put it into a saucepan and let it melt, but not get brown. Add one table- 
spoonful of flour, stir, add enough cold bouillon and a little white wine so 
that after boiling there will be a thick sauce. The sauce will be easier to 
digest if, instead of butter, gravy from any roast meat is used, but the fat 
must be taJcen off first. Before serving, an egg can be added to the sauce. 

Ordinary serving — 80 to 100 grams, 135 to 150 calories, 

RAW BEEF 

General Method of Preparing Raw Beef — Raw meat forms an excellent 
aliment, although it seldom appears on our tables in this form. Fick has 
shown that raw meat is digested three times more easily and quickly than 
cooked or even underdone roast meat. Raw meat is the food which agrees 
best with very delicate stomachs, with tuberculous individuals, tabetics, 
chlorotics and even with many children who are obliged to be weaned pre- 
maturely, but it is necessary to know how to choose and to use it method- 
ically. Great care should be exercised in the selection of meat to be in- 
gested in its raw state. The flesh of pigs should be avoided altogether, 
as it is too firm, and may transmit various parasites. Meat intended to 
be eaten raw should be freed of all fat, scraped and reduced to a pulp 
with the edge of a knife or a spoon handle, but not chopped. By scrap- 
ing, the muscle fibers are separated from the tendons and aponeurosis. 
This scraping results in little balls of pulp which should be rolled into 
boluses about the size of a nut without other addition than a little salt or 



MEATS 633 

perhaps a little cognac, rum, sugar or the gravy of meat roast. These balls 
of meat pnlp ought to be swallowed by the individual without chewing. 

Raw Meat with Milk and Sugar (Ringer). — 

Rump steak 3^ pound 250 gm 660 calories 

Sugar 2 lumps 12 « 50 

Brandy 4 teaspoonfuls 60 c.c 200 " 

Milk K glass 250 « 170 " 

Scrape the steak with a knife until all the pulp is removed, sweeten 
with sugar, breaking the lumps of sugar with the meat in a basin with a 
small wooden spoon. Add slowly as much milk as will make it about the 
thickness of arrowroot; flavor with brandy. If any fiber of the meat re- 
mains, strain through a gravy strainer. The mixture should be perfectly 
smooth. 

Raw-meat Juice (Cheadle). — Add to finely minced rump steak cold 
water in the proportion of one part of water to four parts of meat. Stir 
well together, and allow it to stand for half an hour. Forcibly express 
the juice through muslin, twisting to get the best results. 

Raw Beefsteak (Wegele). — Take a good piece of steak, cut a square 
piece the thickness of a thumb. Pound the meat well, salt on one side 
only. Put into frying pan, fry in fresh butter for one minute. Turn 
and baste with the juice of the meat and again fry only one-half minute. 
Serve at once on a hot plate; 100 grams (3^ ounces) furnish about 130 
calories. 

Raw-beef Soup (Weir Mitchell). — 

Raw beef 1 pound 450 gm 1,200 calories 

Water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Strong hydrochloric acid 5 drops 0.35 c.c. 

This is made by chopping up the raw beef and placing it in a bottle 
with the water and hydrochloric acid. This mixture is allowed to stand 
on the ice over night, and in the morning the bottle is placed in a pan of 
water at 110° F., and kept at about this temperature for two hours. The 
soup is then placed in a stout cloth and strained until the mass that re- 
mains is almost dry. The filtrate is given in three portions daily. If the 
taste of the raw meat is objectionable, the meat may be roasted quickly on 
one side and the process completed in the manner previously described. 

Succus Camis (Meat Juice) (Pettenkoffer and Voit). — Cut up the 
meat into small bits, arrange in layers separated from one another by 
coarse linen, and then place in a powerful press. From each kilogram of 



634 PREPARATION^ OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

meat about 230 grams of a blood-red juice are obtained. This coutains 
about 6 per cent of albuminates. Its taste is similar to that of raw meat ; 
its flavor may be improved by the addition of salt and beef tea not hot 
enough to coagulate the albumin. 

VEGETABLES 

General Rules for Cooking Vegetables — Wash thoroughly ; pare or scrape 
if skins must be removed. Stand in cold water until cooked to keep them 
crisp and prevent their being discolored. Cook in boiling water; the 
water must be kept at the boiling point. Use two teaspoonfuls of salt 
with two quarts of water ; put the salt into the water when the vegetables 
are partially cooked. The water in which vegetables are cooked is called 
vegetable stock. 

Fresh green vegetables require less water than others. Cabbage, cauli- 
flower, onions and turnips should be cooked uncovered in a large amount 
of water. 

All vegetables must be drained as soon as tender. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve hot with butter or sauce. The color may be kept in 
green vegetables, such as spinach, by pouring cold water through them 
after draining. 

Vegetables, according to analysis, are known to possess various min- 
eral matters and the green vegetables more especially contain iron. For 
analysis and the mineral content of vegetables the reader is referred to 
the section of the book dealing with this subject (Volume T, Chap- 
ter XTX). 

Cold vegetables may be used for salads or may be placed in a baking 
dish with one-half the quantity of sauce (2 cupfuls vegetables and 1 cup- 
ful sauce), covered with buttered crumbs and browned in a hot oven. 

TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES IN WATER 
(Drexel Institute) 

Potatoes 25-30 min. Spinach 30-45 min. 

Carrots 35^5 " Celer>' 20-30 « 

Turnips 45 " Parsnips 30-45 « . 

Beets (young) 45 " Green peas 30-40 " 

" (old) 3-4 hrs. String-beans 1-3 hrs. 

Tomatoes 1-3 " Lima beans 1 hr. or more 

Onions 45-60 min. Green com 12-20 min. 

Cabbage 45-60 " Rice 20-45 " 

Cauliflower 20-30 " Macaroni 45-60 " 

Asparagus 20-30 " 



VEGETABLES 635 

Sauce for Vegetables. — : 

Butter 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 45 gm 360 calories 

Flour 3 « ... 45 " 150 

Salt 1 teaspoonful 4 " 

White pepper a pinch 0.5 " 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 

Stock 1 " 250 " 36 « 

Asparagus (Wegele). — 

Asparagus 1 pound 453 gm 52 calories 

Salted water 1 pint 500 c.c. 

Butter sauce 8 tablespoonfuls. . . 120 " 240 " 

Egg 1 yolk 18 gm 68 

Clean asparagus, remove skin, cut off the hard parts. Boil in the 
salted water for about one-half to one hour. Use enough water, otherwise 
the asparagus will lose its color. Serve with a butter sauce, adding the 
yolk of the egg. For sensitive stomach use only asparagus tips. One 
hundred grams (a little less than 1^ ounces) furnish about 20 calories. 

Spinach (Wegele). — 

Spinach 1 pound 453 gm 110 calories 

Butter a lump 15 " 120 

Flour and bouillon a tablespoonful ... 47 " 

Clean and wash spinach thoroughly, remove the stems and rinse in 
water several times. Put the spinach into boiling water and boil quickly. 
When soft, pour into a sieve and allow it to drain, then mash through the 
sieve. Put the butter into a saucepan. When dissolved, add the flour 
and bouillon, making a thick sauce. Keep it on the fire, stirring con- 
stantly. Add the spinach and boil all for about one-quarter hour. 

Oyster Plant (Wegele).— 

Oyster plant 1 pound 453 gm 100 calories 

Flour 1 teaspoonful 4 " 5 " 

Water 1 pound (2 pints) . . 1,000 c.c. 

Vinegar 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 " 

Butter, salt and bouillon 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 " 140 " 

Clean and wash the oyster plant thoroughly, cut into pieces the length 
of a finger. To the flour add the water and vinegar, stir until smooth and 
add the oyster plant. Put all into a colander, pour cold water over it and 
let drain. Put into a cooking vessel containing some butter, cover tight, 
add a little salt and a little bouillon from time to time while cooking. It 
takes three-quarters to one and a half hours to cook oyster plant until soft. 
One hundred grams (a little more than 1^ oz.) furnish about 120 calories. 



636 PEEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Green Peas (Wegele). — It is best to use canned peas of the very best 
quality. Empty the peas into a sieve, pour cold water over them and 
strain. Prepare with a little butter and salt and let them boil for about 
one-quarter hour, adding strong bouillon and a little sifted flour. The 
peas can also be mashed through a sieve. Split peas can also be used for 
this purpose. Puree of peas is considered best for those having stomach 
trouble. Let the dry split peas boil for about one-half hour. Two hun- 
dred and eighty grams furnish about 1,000 calories. 

Carrots (Wegele). — Only small carrots should be used. Clean and 
wash them and cut them into lengthwise pieces; prepare like peas or 
oyster plant. The carrots can be served mashed. After they have been 
boiled, mash them through a hair sieve, dust with a little flour and boil 
until they become a thick mass. One hundred grams (a little less than 
^ pound) furnish about 120 calories. 

String Beans (Wegele). — Young string beans are the best to use. 
Clean and wash them, break into inch lengths, and prepare like peas in 
butter and beef soup. If fresh beans are not in season, canned string 
beans can be used. One hundred grams {^ pound) furnish about 40 
calories. 

Cauliflower (Wegele). — Clean and wash the cauliflower and cook like 
asparagus. Time required, about ^ hour. For those with stomach 
trouble use only the upper part, not the stems. One hundred grams (less 
than I pound) furnish about 60 calories. 

Mashed Potatoes (Wegele). — 

Potatoes 1 pound 453 gm 385 calories 

Butter (fresh) K ounce 20 " 150 

Salt a little 1 " 

Hot milk 21^ ounces 90 c.c 52 * 

Peel and wash the potatoes, cut into 4 parts, boil in a double boiler 
until soft. Put into a hair sieve, mash thoroughly, add the butter, salt 
and hot milk, put back on the fire and stir constantly until smooth and 
thick. Serve at once. Clear beef soup may be added instead of butter if 
so desired. One hundred grams (3^ ounces) furnish about 125 calories. 

Cauliflower k Tlndienne (Watson). — 

Cauliflower 1 pound 453 gm 140 calorics 

White sauce H pint 250 c.c 256 

Grated cheese 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 20 gm 150 " 

Cocoanut 1 tablespoonf ul . ... 32 « 200 « 

Curry powder 1 dessertspoonful. . 



VEGETABLES 637 

Boil cauliflower twenty to thirty minutes until the stalk part is tender. 
Drain and place on a fireproof dish. Add the curry powder and the white 
sauce, cooling the cauliflower well. Sprinkle the cheese and cocoanut on 
top, and brown quickly in a good oven. Cauliflower au gratin can be 
made by increasing the amount of cheese and omitting the curry powder 
and cocoanut. 

Tomato Savory (Watson). — 

Tomatoes 6 small 600 gm 138 calories 

Tomato sauce 1 gill 125 c.c 60 

Curry powder 1 teaspoonful 

Red-currant jelly 1 " 8 gm 28 

Breadcrumbs 2 tablespoonfuls 30 « 60 

Grated cheese 2 " 28 « 200 

Butter 14 ounce 15 " 120 

Pepper and salt ^ teaspoonful of each. . . 1 " 

Choose small firm tomatoes. Put into boiling water for a minute or 
two, lift them out, dry and peel them. Then grease a fireproof dish and 
place the tomatoes in it. Sprinkle them with half the crumbs and cheese, 
and a little pepper and salt. Add the curry powder and the red currant 
jelly to the tomato sauce, and pour this over the tomatoes. Put the re- 
mainder of crumbs and cheese on the top, then the butter in small pieces 
and bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

Mayonnaise Dressing (Pattee). — 

Mustard 1 teaspoonful 4 gm 100 calories 

Powdered sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 24 " 

Salt 1 teaspoonful (level) ... 4 " 

Speck cayenne. 

Eggs 2 yolks 36 " 136 

Nicelle olive oil ij^ cups 316 " 2,900 " 

Vinegar 2 tablespoons 30 c.c. 

Lemon juice 2 " 30 « 

{Individual Ride, ^ of a recipe.) 

Mix dry ingredients, add to yolks and mix thoroughly. Add a few 
drops of oil at a time until one-half cup is used, beating with egg beater 
or wooden spoon. Then add alternately a few drops of vinegar and 
lemon juice and the remainder of the oil, using care not to lose the stitf 
consistency. It should be a thick dressing and should not be added to 
food until just before serving. A tablespoonful represents about 190 
calories. 

Notfl. — Have all ingredients and utensils thoroughly chilled and place 
mixing bowl in a pan of crushed ice while blending. 



638 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Cream Dressing (Pattee). — 

Butter ]/i pound (^ cup) . . 116 gm 900 calories 

Flour 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 « 30 

Scalded milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 

3 yolks 54 gm 204 

3 whites 96 " 54 « 

Mustard 1 teaspoonful 4 " 

Cider vinegar 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 c.c. 

Salt 1 teaspoonful 4 gm. 

Vinegar 3^ cupful 120 c.c. 

Sugar y^ « 116 gm 465 " 

(a) Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour and pour on gradually the 
scalding milk, cook thoroughly, stirring constantly. (6) Beat yolks in top 
of double boiler, add the mustard (dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar), 
salt and vinegar. Pour (a) gradually on. the q^^, mixture and cook over 
hot water until it thickens like soft custard, remove from fire, add the 
sugar, and fold in the stiffly-beaten white of eggs. Pour into glass fruit 
jar, cool and cover, and keep on ice. This dressing will keep a long time 
and is especially delicious to serve with fruit salads. 

PUREES 

Chicken Piir6e (Watson). — 

Roast chicken (whole) 4 pounds .2,000 gm 3,500 calories 

Onion, carrot 1 pound 453 " 217 « 

Celery 2 leaves . 

Cream >^ gill 125 c.c 227 « 

Lemon juice a few drops 20 " 

Sugar small lump 10 gm 41 " 

Remove all the skin and bones from a roast chicken. Chop the meat 
and pound it in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Take the bones of 
the chicken, boil for several hours with onion, carrot, celery and enough 
water to cover them. Strain through a sieve, and remove all the fat» Add 
the pounded meat and simmer until it is sufficiently thick. Add the 
cream, lemon juice and sugar. 

lettnce Pnrle (Wegele). — 

Salad (Romaine preferred) . . 1 pound (2 or 3 heads) . . . 453 gm 60 calories 

Butter a piece 15 « 120 

Flour a little 15 " 15 

Beef soup ^ cup 125 c.c 25 " 

Take the salad, using only the hearts. Separate the leaves, rinse in 
cold water, scald with boiling water, and let boil in salted water until soft. 



FRUITS 639 

Put into a colander and let drain, then mash thoroughly. Melt the butter, 
add the flour, not allowing it to brown, stir well, add the salad, also a little 
beef soup, and boil all for a few minutes. A little sweet or sour cream 
may be added, if permitted. 

Endive Puree (Wegele). — 

Endive salad ]/2 pound 225 gm 45 calories 

Butter a piece 15 " 120 

Flour ; small spoonful 15 " 15 " 

Salt a little 1 « 

Clear soup ^ cup 125 c.c 25 " 

Use the tender stalks of endive salad, scald them two or three times 
with boiling water, so they may lose their bitter taste. Boil quickly in 
salted water until soft. Pour off the water and put cold water over it, 
drain again and squeeze the endive thoroughly. Chop the stalks and mash 
through a sieve. Melt the butter, add the flour, and allow it to brown. 
To this add the mashed endive, salt, and soup, and stir until it becomes 
a thick mass. 

Red Cabbage Puree (Wegele). — Slice the cabbage on a slicing machine. 
Stew in butter and beef soup about 1 to 2 hours, until soft. Mash thor- 
oughly and stew again, adding a little wine and a lump of sugar ; also a 
pinch of flour. 

FRUITS 

Baked Apples (Pattee). — ^Wipe and core apples. Put in a shallow 
dish with one tablespoon water to each apple. More may be added during 
cooking if necessary. Put into the center of each apple two teaspoons 
of sugar. Bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft; 
baste with the sirup every ten minutes. A little nutmeg may be added to 
the sugar, and a few drops of lemon juice to each apple. Care must be 
taken that apples do not lose their shape and break. One medium apple, 
150 grams, furnish 70 calories. 

Apricot and Prune Sauce (Pattee). — 

Prunes 5 large (3^ cup) . . . 100 gm 265 calories 

Dried apricots ^ cup 40 " 114 " 

Cold water 1 cup 

Sugar to taste 

Wash fruit carefully, soak over night, and cook slowly for two hours. 
If cooked properly the fruit will need very little sugar, as the sugar in 
the fruit is developed by this method of cooking. 



640 PREPABATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Orange (Pattee). — Select a large, firm orange, wash, cut and peel 
skin down in eight parts, leaving them connected to stem end of orange 
to form petals, and folding them under the pulp. Separate pulp in sec- 
tions and put ice between petals before serving. One medium orange, 
250 grams, furnishes 96 calories. 

Pineapple (Pattee). — 

Hawaiian pineapple 2 slices 100 gm 44 calories 

Cherry 2 Maraschino 

Serve pineapple on small tea plate with cherry in center. To eat a 
slice of pineapple after a meal is quite in accordance with physiological 
indications, as pineapple juice contains a remarkable digestive principle 
similar to pepsin. It aids the work of digestion in the stomach, also in 
the intestinal tract. The Hawaiian pineapple comes in three forms — 
sliced, crushed and grated. The sliced pineapple is usually served just 
as it comes from the can. The crushed and grated are used like apple 
sauce and also in delicious made desserts and beverages. 

Stewed Prunes (Pattee). — ^Wash and look over the prunes, cover with 
clear cold water, and allow them to stand on the back of the range over 
night. In the morning put the saucepan where they will cook slowly for 
four hours. 

Note. — !N"o sugar is needed as prunes are 18 per cent sugar, and by 
this manner of cooking are made very sweet. This simmering process 
renders them rich and juicy, while boiling toughens the skin. A little 
lemon juice is a pleasant addition. Prunes are a valuable nutrient, and 
their use as a laxative is scarcely second to figs. Three prunes, 60 grams, 
furnish 125 calories. 

Stewed Figs (Pattee).— 

Figs ^ pound 275 gm 737 calories 

White sugar. ..." J^ cup 30 " 120 

Cold water 1 " 250 c.c. 

Juice of lemon ]/2 15 " 

Wash figs. Dissolve sugar in water, add figs and bring slowly to boil- 
ing point. Stew two and one-half hours. When tender, add lemon juice. 

Note. — Cut figs in small pieces, cook very slowly so as not to add more 
water. 



NUTS 641 



NUTS 



Cooking of Nuts (Pattee). — Nuts are more often eaten raw than 
cooked. But the peanut is not considered palatable when raw, and the 
chestnut is indigestible unless the starch is cooked, when it becomes very 
easily digestible. Almonds are widely used in confectionery. Nuts may 
be used as staple articles of diet, in salad, soups, desserts, etc. 

To insure the best utilization of nuts they must be thoroughly pre- 
pared for digestion by grinding or mastication. Nut butters offer much 
less resistance to digestion than raw nuts hastily eaten. On account of 
the high fat content, these products must be fresh, or the fat is likely to 
decompose (become rancid) and be irritating. 

Digestibility — Nuts have been considered very indigestible. This is 
due largely to improper mastication or other preparation for digestion; 
to the fact that they are a very concentrated food, and are often eaten 
when not needed. While nvit protein, as nuts are ordinarily eaten, is not 
so easily nor completely digested as meat protein, there are experiments 
showing that, on the whole, they are as thoroughly digested as an ordinary 
mixed diet. No experiments have been reported on the ease or rapidity of 
nut digestion. 

Nutritive Value. — Nuts are a concentrated food. This is clearly shown 
by the following figures : 

1 pound of Almonds yield 2,895 calories 

1 " « BrazU nuts yield 3,120 

1 « « Filberts yield 3,100 

1 « " Hickory nuts yield 3,345 

1 " " Peanuts yield 2,610 « 

1 « « Walnuts yield 3,075 

The high fuel value is due to the absence of water and the large 
amount of fat present. Nuts can be most advantageously used along with 
bulky foods, such as fruits and vegetables, and those lacking in fat, such 
as bread. In a vegetarian diet they become a valuable source of protein. 

Chestnut Puree (Wegele). — 

Chestnuts 1 pound 553 gm 1,125 calories 

Butter 3 ounces 90 " 675 " 

Salt a little 1 " 

Sugar a little 10 " 41 " 

The chestnuts are peeled and boiled in water until the second (inside) 
skin comes off easily. They are then placed in a sieve until all the water 



642 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

drains off, washed, and afterward pressed through a sieve. Melt the but- 
ter in a stewpan on the fire, add the salt and sugar — enough to cover the 
point of a knife — and then the chestnuts. Stew them for half an hour, 
stirring frequently; pour in enough bouillon so that the mush does not 
get too thick. 



JELLIES 

Gelatinous articles of nutrition are made from cartilage, tendons, con- 
nective tissue and bone. The gelatin is rapidly and completely decom- 
posed ill the alimentary canal and quickly reaches the tissues and serves 
as a preserver of protein and fats. Gelatinous food aids the coagulability 
of the blood and when taken in excess may cause diarrhea. 

Chicken Jelly (Adams). — Clean a fowl that is about a year old, remove 
skin and fat, chop bones and flesh fine, place in a pan with two quarts of 
water; heat slowly; skim thoroughly; simmer five or six hours; add salt, 
mace or parsley to taste; strain, and cool. When cool, skim off the fat. 
The jelly is usually relished cold, but may be heated. Data for estimat- 
ing the caloric value of this preparation are not available. 

Veal-bone Jelly. — 

Veal bones 10 pounds 5,000 gm. ...... 1,615 calories 

Water 10 quarts 10,000 c.c. 

Barley 2 pounds 1,000 gm 3,300 " 

Salt a little 3 " 

Eggs yolks 72 « 272 « 

Place the veal bones and water or weak bouillon over the fire and just 
bring to a boil. Skim and add the barley and a little salt. Simmer for 
five or six hours and then strain. If too thick, dilute, before serving, with 
bouillon. Stir in the yolk of an egg for each cup and serve. Each cup 
will represent in full value about 100 calories. 

Meat Jelly (Hepp). — This is made by cooking good boneless, lean 
beef on a water bath with a little water for sixteen hours or until it be- 
comes gelatinized. Of the artificial preparations on the market for mak- 
ing bouillon, the most reliable is Liebig's Extract of Meat (10:250 
grams), or Cibil's Bouillon (1 teaspoonful to 250 grams). Inaglio's 
bouillon capsules are also very convenient. If it is desired to make the 
bouillon more nutritious, one teaspoonful of meat peptone may be 
added. 



JELLIES 643 

Jelly for Dyspeptics (Weil). — 

Calf's foot 1 pound 553 gm 250 calories 

Beer or 3^ kilo 275 " 800 

Hen (old) K fowl 1,000 « 1,800 

Water ^ liter 250 c.c. 

Salt 1 hp. teaspoonful. . 5 gm. 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 " 80 " 

Cornstarch a little 30 « 100 " 

Extract of meat 1 tablespoonful. ... 5 " 20 " 

Remove the skin and meat from the calf's foot; wash the bones and 
place in cold water on the stove; when it begins to foam, skim off the 
refuse which gathers on top. After rinsing off the scum with cold water, 
put the bones into a pot with the beef or hen, water and salt, and boil 
slowly for from four to five hours. Pour the jelly thus formed through 
a fine sieve, and place overnight in a cellar. ]^ext morning remove the 
fat, and clarify the cold jelly by adding the beaten egg with its shell 
mashed, and stirring steadily. Then, with the addition of a little corn- 
starch, subject the whole to a temperature not over 168° F., or the white 
of the egg will curdle. Constantly beat and stir. If the jelly begins to 
get grainy, cover and let it cool until the white of the egg becomes flaky 
and separates. Then strain again several times until it becomes perfectly 
clear ; add the extract of meat, pour the jelly into a mold, and let it cool 
again. The gravy from a roast may be utilized and is very palatable. It 
must be stirred in while the mass is still warm and liquid. This jelly is 
usually relished with cold fowl, but spoils easily in summer; it must, 
therefore, be kept on ice. One hundred grams contain about 20 calories. 

Calf's Foot Jelly (Sweet) (Watson).— 

Ox foot, or 1 pound 553 gm 250 calories 

Calf's feet 1 pound 553 « 250 " 

Sugar }4 pound 276 « 930 « 

Eggs 4 (whole) 200 " 320 

Lemons 4 (whole) 520 " 205 « 

Mace 1 blade 1 " 

Cinnamon stick 1 inch 1 " 

Cloves 4 seeds 1 " 

Sherry wine '. 2 glasses 60 c.c 76 " 

Water 2 quarts 2,000 « 

Two calf's feet are equal to one ox foot, and make the same quantity 
of jelly; they are prepared in the same way as the ox foot, but need not 
be boiled quite so long. Get the ox foot broken across several times ; split 
it up between the toes ; take out the piece of fat between the toes and all 



644 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

the marrow from the bones. First blaueh the foot by thoroughly washing, 
covering with cold water and bringing it to the boil. Now place it in a 
basin of cold water, and scrape well. 

After again rinsing in cold water, put it on in a clean pot with two 
quarts cf cold water, bring it to the boil, skimming it well, and boil very 
gently for about eight hours. If very gently simmered by the side of the 
fire, the stock does not reduce too much. Strain it into a basin, either 
through a towel or a sieve, and stand aside to get quite cold. There should 
be six breakfastcupfuls of stock. When quite cold, remove all the fat 
from the top ; this must be done very carefully. Now put the stock into a 
clean saucepan, add the sugar, the flavorings broken into small pieces, the 
lemon rind very thinly pared oif, the juice strained, two eggs and the 
whites of the other two eggs beaten up, and a little crushed eggshell. Put 
this on the fire and whisk briskly until it comes to boiling point. Allow 
it to boil very gently about seven minutes. Withdraw from the fire, cover 
it with the lid, and allow it to settle for five or ten minutes. 

Have a flannel or felt jelly-bag hanging up. Poiir a good deal of boil- 
ing water through the bag to warm and cleanse it. When the water has 
all run out, put a clean basin under the bag and pour the jelly twice 
through the bag, when the jelly should be clear and a brilliant color. This 
jelly is excellent without wine. If wine is used, it is best put into the 
saucepan just before the jelly is poured into the bag. 

Milk JeUy (Wegele).— 

Milk 2 liters (4 pints) . . .2,000 c.c 1,360 calories 

Sugar lineups 250 gm 1,000 

White gelatin 1 ounce 30 " 100 

Water 1»^ cups 250 « 

Good white wine 3 wineglassf uls .... 400 " 229 " 

Boil the milk for five to ten minutes with the sugar and let cool. Make 
a solution of the white gelatin, add water and the white wine. Stir all 
slowly. Add to above. Pour into a mold and let cool. One hundred 
grams (one-half cup) are equivalent to 250 calories. 

General Directions for Dishes Made with Gelatin. — Gelatin should be 
soaked in cold water for about half an hour to soften it. It may then be 
easily dissolved by adding boiling water. If it is desired to soften gelatin 
quickly, it should be placed in cold water and gradually heated over boil- 
ing water until it dissolves. If a jelly is to be strained, a wet cloth should 
be used for the purpose. Jelly molds should be wet with cold water before 
being filled. When granulated gelatin is used, much smaller amounts are 
required than when the ordinary form is used. 



JELLIES 645 

Wine Jelly (Drexel Institute). — 

Granulated gelatin 1 teaspoonful 4 gm , 25 calories 

Cold water 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c 

Hot water. . K cupful 125 " 

Sugar 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 40 gm 160 " 

Lemon juice H teaspoonful 5 c.c 

Wine 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 " 50 " 

Soak the gelatin in the cold and hot water. Add the sugar and lemon 
juice, and when cooling add the wine. 

Lemon Jelly. — Lemon jelly is made in the same manner as wine jelly, 
just described, using a tablespoonful of lemon juice in place of the quan- 
tity directed. 

Orange Jelly. — 

Lemon juice 2 teaspoonfuls 15 c.c 

Orange juice 4 tablespoonfuls. . . 60 " 40 calories 

Sugar 3 « . . . 60 gm 240 

The above is made in a similar manner as the previous recipe, using 
the lemon juice, orange juice and sugar, but a little less of the boiling 
water. 

Wine Jelly (Sweet Wine Jelly from Gelatin) (Watson). — 

French sheet gelatin 13^ ounces 37 gm 222 calories 

Cold water 3 gills 360 c.c. 

Lemon juice H gill 60 " 

Sherry wine 3^ " 60 « 65 " 

Brandy 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 " 40 " 

Loaf sugar 3 ounces 90 gm 360 " 

Lemon 1 rind 2 " 

Cloves 2 or 3 1 " 

Cinnamon stick 1 inch 1 " 

Egg 1 white 32 " 18 

Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan ; whisk until they boil ; 
remove to the side of fire when the scum begins to rise in the top. Cover 
the top of the pan with a plate, and allow it to stand fifteen minutes. 
Strain through a hot jelly cloth three or four times till clear; when cold, 
mold in a scalded wet mold. 

Cream Jelly or Blancmange ("Watson). — 

Milk 1 gill 60 c.c 45 calories 

Cream .1 « 60 « 120 

Isinglass ^ ounce 7 gm 42 " 

Lemon 1 rind 4 " 

Sugar 1 ounce 30 « 120 " 

141 



646 PEEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Rinse out a small saucepan and put into it the milk, isinglass and 
thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Let this stand by the side of the fire 
until the isinglass is dissolved and the milk well flavored with the lemon. 
Stir occasionally to prevent boiling. Add the sugar, and strain into a 
basin to keep back the lemon rind. Add the cream, and stir occasionally 
until nearly cold. If not stirred, the milk and cream will separate. Pour 
into a small basin that has been rinsed out with cold water, and place in 
a cool position to set. Turn out and serve with a little red or black cur- 
rant jelly. 

Nutritious Coffee Jelly (Thomas). — 

Isinglass or gelatin a little 2 gm 12 calories 

Freshly ground coffee 3^ ounce 15 " 

New milk 1 pint 500 c.c 340 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 « 

Dissolve the isinglass or gelatin in water, put the coffee into a sauce- 
pan with the new milk, which should be nearly boiling before the coffee 
is added ; boil together for three minutes ; clear it by pouring some of it 
into a cup and dashing it back again ; add the gelatin, and leave it to set- 
tle in a warm place for a few minutes. Beat up the egg in a breakfast 
cup, and pour the coffee upon it ; if preferred, drink without the egg. 

Milk Jelly (Schlesinger). — 

Milk 2 quarts 2,000 c.c 1,360 calories 

Sugar \i pound 275 gm 930 

Gelatin 1 ounce 30 " 108 « 

Cold water 1 cupful 250 c.c. 

Juice of lemons 2 or 3 40 " 

Good Bordeaux wine 3 glasses 90 " 135 " 



To the milk add the sugar. Boil for five or ten minutes. Cool and 
add the gelatin dissolved in the cold water. Flavor with the juice of the 
lemons and wine. 

Irish-moss Blancmai^e (Drexel Institute). — 

Irish moss 1 tablespoonful. ... 8 gm 30 calories 

Milk H cupful 175 c.c 85 

Salt a little 1 gm. 

Wash the moss in several changes of water, and pick it over carefully. 
Place it in a double boiler, together with the milk. Cook until it thickens 
when dropped on a cold plate. Add salt, strain and flavor. Pour into 
a custard cup that has first been rinsed in cold water. 



CUSTARDS 647 

Meat Jellies with Gelatin. — 

Meat broth 1 pint 500 c.c 52 calories 

Granulated gelatin 1 teaspoonful 4 gm 25 " 

Use any kind of meat broth desired, but always one with appetizing 
flavor. Add the gelatin to enough broth to cover it, and allow the gelatin 
to soak for a few minutes. Then add the remainder of the broth very 
hot, and stir until the gelatin is dissolved. Strain and pour into molds 
to cool. 

Meat Jellies with Tapioca — 

Broth 1 cupful 250 c.c 26 calories 

Powdered tapioca 4 level tablespoonfuls . . 60 gm 90 " 

Salt a pinch 1 " 

Mix the broth as above with the powdered tapioca. Heat until quite 
clear, stirring constantly. Add salt and season as desired. Pour into 
molds and cool. 

Meat Jellies with Irish Moss. — 

Irish moss 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 8 gm 25 calories 

Hot broth 1 cupful 250 c.c 26 

Wash the moss thoroughly. Add this to the hot broth and allow it to 
stand for half an hour ; then heat slowly, stirring constantly, and boil for 
ten minutes, preferably in a double boiler. Strain, pour into molds, and 
cool. 

CUSTARDS 

Rules for Custards (Drexel Institute). — The eggs should be thoroughly 
mixed but not beaten light, the sugar and salt added to these, and the hot 
milk added slowly. Custards must be cooked over moderate heat ; if a cus- 
tard curdles, put it in a pan of cold water and beat until smooth. Cus- 
tards should always be strained. 

Soft Custard 

Milk 1 pint 500 c.c 345 calories 

Eggs 2 yolks 36 gm 130 

Sugar 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 « 120 

Salt a pinch 1 " 

Vanilla 2 teaspoonfuls 4 c.c. 

Sherry 4 " 30 « 38 

Mix the yolks of eggs, sugar and salt in a bowl. Heat the milk to the 
boiling point and add to the eggs, sugar and salt, stirring constantly. As 
soon as mixed, pour into the saucepan in which the milk has been heated. 



648 PEEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVEKAGES AND FOODS 

and cook from three to five minutes, stirring constantly until it thickens. 
Strain, and pour into a cold bowl, and flavar with vanilla, sherry or other 
flavoring material as desired. Custards may be cooked to advantage in 
a double boiler. 

Savory Custard (Anderson). — Add the yolks of two eggs to a cupful 
of beef tea, with pepper and salt to taste. Butter a cup or a jam pot; 
pour the mixture into it, and let it stand in a pan of boiling water till the 
custard is set. 

This will furnish 150 calories. 

Custard Sauce (Watson). — 

Eggs 2 yolks 36 gm 135 calories 

Egg 1 white 32 " 18 

Sugar 1 dessertspoonful . . 8 « 32 « 

Milk y2 pint 250 c.c 170 « 

Flavoring a few drops 1 * 

Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water, put the milk into 
it, and let it heat over the fire. Put the yolks and white of egg into a 
basin with sugar, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. Then 
pour the hot milk gradually onto them, stirring all the time and mixing 
thoroughly. Return all to the saucepan, and stir very carefully over the 
fire imtil the sauce thickens. On no account must it be allowed to boil, 
or it will curdle. Have ready at hand a clean basin and strainer. As 
soon as the sauce shows signs of thickening, and it is almost boiling, re- 
move the pan from the fire, continue stirring for a few moments, and then 
strain into a basin. Add flavoring to taste — lemon, vanilla, nutmeg or 
cinnamon. This can be made richer by increasing the proportion of yolks 
to white. It can be served as sauce, or in a custard glass, with flavoring 
grated on the top. 

Baked or Cup Custard (Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Milk 1 cup 250 c.c 170 calories 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 

Sugar V/i tablespoons 6 " 24 " 

Salt J^saltspoon 1 « 

Flavoring to taste: nutmeg, cin- 
namon, vanilla, or lemon ex- 
tract. 

Scald the milk ; beat the egg, add sugar and salt, and pour onto it 
gradually the scalded milk. Flavor to taste and pour into custard cups; 
place in deep pan and pour boiling water around until it almost reaches 



CUSTARDS 649 

the top of cups. Bake in moderate oven about twenty minutes. If cinna- 
mon is used for flavor, put one-half square inch into the milk when scald- 
ing. 

Note. — To test, dip a pointed knife into water and plunge into the 
middle of the custard. If it looks set and the knife comes out clear, the 
custard is done; if milky, it is not cooked enough. If cooked too long 
the custard will curdle. 

Chocolate Custard {Individual Ride) (Fitch). — 

Walter Baker's chocolate 2 teaspoonfuls 15 gm 89 calories 

Milk 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c 42 

Rich milk 6 >" ... 90 " 160 

Eggs 2 yolks 36 gm 130 

Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 8 " 32 

Salt a speck 1 " 

Grate chocolate and mix with the two tablespoons of milk; stir over 
the fire until smooth, add the rich milk, the well-beaten egg yolks, sugar 
and salt. Pour into custard cups set in pan of hot water (nearly to the 
top). Cook until custard is set. Serve hot or cold. 

Custard Souffle {Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Butter 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 120 calories 

Flour T 13^ tablespoons 37 " 118 

Scalded milk M cup 60 c.c 40 

Egg 1 yolk 18 gm 65 

Sugar 13^ tablespoons 20 " 80 

Egg 1 white 32 « 18 

Melt butter, add flour, and then gradually the scalding milk. Cook 
thoroughly, pour into the well-beaten yolk, add sugar, and cool. Fold into 
mixture the well-beaten whites. Turn into buttered custard cups and bake 
about fifteen minutes, until firm — determined by pressing with the finger. 
Take from oven and serve at once, or it v/ill fall. Serve with foamy sauce. 

Peach Meringue {Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Yellow peaches 1 cup 253 gm 58 calories 

Sugar to taste 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Egg 1 yolk 

Bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful. . 

Egg 1 white 

Powdered sugar 1 tablespoon .... 

Stew peaches in a very little water, sweeten to taste, and stir in the 
well-beaten yolk. Butter a pudding dish and cover bottom with fine bread 
crumbs; put in the peaches and bake fifteen minutes. Cover with 



30 « 


120 


18 « 


65 


15 " 


15 


32 « 


18 


16 « 


64 



650 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

meringue made of white of egg and the powdered sugar; brown slightly 
in the oven. Serve cold. 

Cocoa Junket 

Cocoa 1 teaspoonful 4 gm 50 calories 

Milk sugar 1 ounce 30 « 120 " 

Milk 5 ounces 150 c.c 100 « 

Junket tablet 34 0.25 gm. 

Cold water 1 ounce : . . . 30 c.c. 

Dissolve the junket tablet in the water. Mix the cocoa and sugar, 
add the milk, and heat lukewarm, stirring constantly; add the dissolved 
junket tablet, stir thoroughly, and leave in a warm place to set. ' 

Soft Custard — 

Milk 1 cup (8 ounces). . .250 c.c 160 calories 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 « 80 

Milk sugar 2 ounces 60 gm 240 " 

Salt a speck. 

Vanilla 2 to 3 drops. 

Caramel, made of granulated 

sugar 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 45 " 180 « 

Beat the egg slightly ; add the sugar, salt and hot milk slowly. Cook 
in a double boiler, stirring constantly, until it thickens a little (if cooked 
too long the custard will curdle, but may become smooth again if set in a 
dish of cold water and beaten at once). Flavor and cool. 

To make caramel : Put the sugar in a pan directly over heat and burn 
until a very dark brown. Dissolve in hot water or milk. 

Plain Junket or Rennet Custard. — 

Milk sugar 1 ounce 30 gm 120 calories 

Milk 6 ounces 150 c.c 100 

Junket tablet }i 0.25 gm. 

Cold water 1 ounce 30 c.c. 

Vanilla few drops. 

See directions for Cocoa Junket. 

Baked Custard. — 

Milk sugar 1 ^ ounces 40 gm 160 calories 

Milk 6 ounces 180 c.c 120 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 « 

Nutmeg or vanilla. 

Salt a speck. 

Beat the egg slightly; warm the sugar and milk, stirring constantly; 
add to the egg, strain into a custard cup, and flavor. Bake in a pan of 



PUDDINGS 651 

water In a moderate oven until a knife, when cut into it, will come out 
clean (one-half to one hour). 

PUDDINGS 
Bread Pudding — 

Milk sugar 1^ ounces 45 gm 180 calories 

Milk 6 ounces 180 c.c 120 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 « 

Bread 1 slice %" thick. . . 20 " 60 « 

Butter 3^ ounce 15 « . '. 120 « 

Spread the bread with butter, and cut into squares. Beat the e^g 
slightly; heat the milk and sugar, stirring constantly; mix with the egg 
and pour over the bread. Grate nutmeg over the top, and bake the same 
as custard. 

Rice Pudding. — 

Rice 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 100 gm 360 calories 

Milk 1 quart 500 c.c 700 " 

Salt a pinch 1 gm. 

Sugar 1 cup 280 « 1,148 « 

Butter 1 hp. teaspoonful. .15 " 120 " 

Cinnamon, nutmeg, or vanilla to taste. 

Wash the rice with water. Add to the milk and cook slowly on top 
of the stove for one hour, or a little longer, until the mixture becomes 
creamy. Add the sugar, butter and cinnamon. Put into a dish to set, 
and bake in an oven until the top is browned. The whole pudding fur- 
nishes five to six portions. 

Rice and Egg Pudding (Caultey). — 

Rice 3 ounces 90 gm 315 calories 

Milk 1 pint 500 c.c 350 

Butter 1 ounce 30 gm 240 

Powdered sugar 2 ounces 60 " 240 " 

Eggs 3 yolks 54 « 180 « 

Lemon peel 1 grated 2 " 

Eggs 3 whites 96 " 54 " 

Powdered sugar 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 45 " 185 " 

Take the rice and swell it gently in the new milk. Let it cool, and 
stir well into it the fresh butter, powdered sugar, the yolks of the eggs, 
and some grated lemon peel. Pour into a well-buttered dish and put on 
the top the whites of the eggs beaten with the powdered sugar. Bake for 
twenty minutes until lightly browned. The whole pudding furnishes six 
portions. 

Arrowroot (Pavy). — Mix thoroughly two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot 
with three tablespoonfuls of cold water, and pour on them half a pint 



652 PKEPAKATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

of boiling water, stirring well meanwhile. If the water is boiling, the 
arrowroot thickens as it is poured on, and nothing more is necessary. If 
only warm water is used, the arrowroot must be afterward boiled until 
it thickens. Sweeten with loaf sugar, and flavor with lemon peel or nut- 
meg, or add sherry, port wine or brandy, if required. Boiling milk may 
be employed instead of water, but when this is done no wine must be 
added, as the milk would curdle. 

Cornstarch Pudding {Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 calories 

Cornstarch 1^ tablespoons .... 28 gm 90 " 

Sugar VA " ....28 « 112 « 

Salt a speck 1 " 

Egg 1 white 32 « 18 

Vanilla extract a few drops. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt 
thoroughly; add slowly the scalded milk, stirring constantly. Keturn to 
top of boiler and cook twenty minutes, stirring constantly for the first five 
or six minutes, then occasionally. Remove from fire, and while very hot, 
fold in lightly, but thoroughly, the well-beaten white of egg. When par- 
tially cooled add flavoring to taste; put into wet cups or molds, cool, and 
then stand for several hours on ice. Remove from molds. Serve with a 
soft custard, mashed fresh berries, or whipped cream. Vary the pudding 
by adding a little Walter Baker's chocolate, melted. 

Pineapple Cream {Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 calories 

Cornstarch 114 tablespoons .... 28 gm 90 " 

Sugar VA " ....28 « 112 « 

Salt a speck 1 " 

Egg 1 white 32 « 18 « 

Grated pineapple 2 tablespoons 50 * 22 " 

Follow directions for Cornstarch Pudding, adding the pineapple in- 
stead of vanilla. Pour into individual molds and serve cold with cream. 

Plain Rice Pudding {Individual Rule). — 

Steamed rice 1 cupful 300 gm 300 calories 

Scalded milk 1 « 250 c.c 170 

Butter 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 120 « 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 « 80 « 

Sugar 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 « 120 « 

Salt A saltspoon 1 " 

Raisins (stoned) M cup 100 « 320 « 



PUDDINGS 653 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat egg, add sugar and salt, and pour on 
slowly the scalding milk. Put in pudding dish with rice and raisins. Put 
bits of butter on top, and bake in a moderate oven until custard is set. 
Serve with hard sauce. Do not use raisins in cases of bowel trouble. 

Chocolate or Cocoa Blancmange (Pattee). — 

Minute tapioca \i cupful 30 gm 45 calories 

Sugar M " 30 « 120 « 

Salt 3^ teaspoonful 1 " 

Hot chocolate or cocoa IH cups 340 " 418 " 

Vanilla ^ teaspoonful. 

The above quantity is sufficient for three servings containing 195 
calories each. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt ; pour on gradually the hot cocoa, and cook 
in double boiler about twenty minutes. Remove from heat, add vanilla, 
and pour into cold, wet molds. Serve cold, plain or with whipped cream 
or soft custard. 

Plain Bread Pudding (Pattee). — 

Stale bread 1 cupful 120 gm 120 calories 

Milk 1 " 250 c.c 170 

Butter 1 tablespoonful 15 gm 120 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 " 80 " 

Sugar to taste 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 « 120 « 

Salt K saltspoon 1 " 

Seeded raisins M cup 100 " 320 « 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the ^^^^^ and add sugar and salt ; pour 
on gradually the scalding milk. Cut the bread into one-half inch cubes 
and add with the raisins. Pour into well-buttered pudding dish, put bits 
of butter on top, and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 
Serve with hard sauce or cream and sugar. Do not use raisins in bowel 
trouble. The above quantity is sufficient for two servings and contains 
930 calories. 

Tapioca and Sago Pudding (Watson). — 

Tapioca or sago ^ ounce 30 gm 48 calories 

Cold milk J/^ pint 250 c.c 170 

Egg 1 (whole). 50 gm 80 " 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 5 " , 20 " 

Flavoring to taste. 

If small crushed tapioca or sago is used, the directions are the same 
as for semolina pudding. If not, the recipe is as follows : 



654 PKEPAEATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Cover the grain with milk, and soak for an hour. Rinse out a small 
lined saucepan, turn the tapioca and milk into it, and stir over the fire 
until it comes to the boil. Then simmer slowly until it turns clear, stir- 
ring every now and then. This takes from twenty to thirty minutes. If 
it becomes too thick while cooking, add a little more milk. Then finish 
off the pudding with eggs, etc., as in semolina. 

Baked Bread and Butter Pudding (Watson). — 

Thin bread and butter 2 slices ( %" thick) ... 40 gm 120 calories 

Sugar 1 teaspoonful 5 " 20 

Milk y2 pint 250 c.c 170 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 

Grated nutmeg to suit. 

Cut some bread and butter rather thin, remove the crusts, and cut into 
pieces about an inch square. Lay these into a small greased pie-dish, mak- 
ing the dish just about half full; beat up the egg in a small basin, and 
add the nutmeg, sugar and milk. !Mix well together and pour over the 
bread in the pie-dish. Allow the pudding to stand about ten minutes until 
the bread gets thoroiighly saturated, then bake in a moderate oven from 
ten to fifteen minutes until nicely browned on the top. Sprinkle with 
sugar. 

Sponge Pudding (Wegele). — 

Butter ^ ounce 20 gm 170 calories 

Flour l^ounces 50 " 180 " 

Milk H pint (M pound) . . .250 c.c 170 « 

Egg 1 yolk 18 gm 65 

Butter ^ ounce 20 " 160 " 

Eggs 2 yolks 36 " 130 « 

Sugar 1 tablespoonful 15 " 60 

Vanilla a little. 

Eggs 3 whites 96" 54 « 

Melt, the butter in a saucepan. Thoroughly mix the flour and milk, 
boil in the saucepan containing the melted butter. Let the mixture cool 
off, and then add the yolk of the one egg. Beat to a cream the butter and 
yolks of two eggs, add sugar and vanilla, and add to above. Beat stiff 
the whites of three eggs and add. Butter a pudding dish, dust same with 
bread crumbs, put the entire batter into the pudding dish and allow to 
steam for one hour. One hundred grams (314 oz.) are equivalent to 
about 220 calories. 

A vanilla or wine sauce may be served with this pudding. The pud- 
ding can be baked, if so desired. 



ICE CREAM 655 

ICE CREAM 

Chocolate Ice Crean* (Pattee). — 

Thin cream 3^ cup 80 gm 216 calories 

Walter Baker's chocolate 1 ounce 30 « 180 

Sugar IH tablespoonfuls. .15 " 60 " 

Boiling water 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 c.c. 

Vanilla }/i teaspoonful 1 " 

Salt a speck 0.5 gm. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling water, sugar and 
hot cream. Cool, add vanilla and salt, and freeze in small pail. 

Junket Ice Cream (Pattee). — 

Cream 3^ cup 80 gm 216 calories 

Milk y^ " 125 c.c 85 

Sugar 2>^ tablespoons 25 gm 100 

Hansen's junket tablet \i tablet 

Cold water 2 teaspoonfuls 15 c.c. 

Vanilla % " 25 « 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the sugar and vanilla ; when sugar 
is dissolved, add the tablet dissolved in the cold water. Allow it to stand 
in warm room until firm, then beat thoroughly and turn into small pail 
and freeze. The above quantity is sufficient for two servings. 

A variety may be made by adding two teaspoons cocoa dissolved in a 
little boiling water. Add to mixture before adding the tablet. Serve the 
cream plain or with whole strawberries, etc. The junket improves the 
body or consistency of any cream. 

Strawberry Ice Cream (Pattee). — 

Thin cream or rich whole milk . .3^ cup 80 gm 216 calories 

Milk M " 125 c.c 85 « 

Strawberries M " 200 gm 60 

Sugar 2 tablespoons 20 " 80 « 

Salt a speck 1 " 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar, and allow them to stand five 
minutes. Add the cream and milk and freeze in small pail. The berries 
may be mashed and strained through cheesecloth. 

Peach Ice Cream (Pattee). — 

Thin^cream or rich whole milk . . Y2 cup 80 gm 216 calories 

Milk Yi " 125 c.c 85 « 

Peaches \i " 256 gm 85 

Sugar 2 tablespoons 20 « 80 



656 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Mix peaches and sugar and press through a potato ricer or sieve. 
Scald cream and milk. Cool, and add peaches and sugar. Freeze in 
small pail. 

Caramel Ice Cream (Individual Rule) (Pattee). — 

Thin cream or rich whole milk . . 3^ cupful 80 gm 216 calories 

Milk y2 " 125C.C 85 " 

Sugar 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 « 80 « 

Boiling water 2 « ... 30 « 

Vanilla \i teaspoon 20 " 

Salt a speck 1 gm. 

Into saucepan place the sugar and stir constantly until melted. Add 
water and boil until reduced to one and one-half tablespoons. Add cream 
very slowly, vanilla, salt, and freeze. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. — 

Cream 4 ounces 120 c.c 240 calories 

Milk 2 " 60 « 40 

Milk-sugar 2 " 60 gm 240 " 

Vanilla a few drops 1 c.c. 

Mix the cream, milk and sugar, and heat, stirring constantly, until 
the sugar is dissolved. Then flavor, cool and freeze. 

RECIPES FOR DIABETIC FOODS 

Oum Gluten Bread. — 

Gum gluten flour 4 cups 553 gm 1,160 calories 

Scalded milk 1 cup 250 c.c 170 " 

Cold water 1 « 250 « 

Butter 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 120 " 

Fleischmann's Yeast H cake 2 " 

Salt Hteaspoonful 2 « 

Put the hot water or milk in the mixing bowl. Add the butter, and 
when melted, add the salt and cold water. Dissolve the yeast in a little 
lukewarm water, and add to the above mixture, being careful that the 
liquid is not too warm. Stir in the flour, and knead thoroughly in the 
bowl. Set to rise in a warm place, having the bowl well covered and 
away from draughts. When doubled in bulk, cut down, and knead again 
in the bowl. Cover and let rise the second time. When light, cut it down, 
turn onto a well-floured board, knead into shape, and place in a greased 
bread pan. Cover and let rise to top of pan. Bake in a moderate oven 
one hour and a half. Turn out on a wire sieve to cool. 



EECIPES FOR DIABETIC FOODS 657 

Gum Gluten Muffins. — 

Gum gluten flour 1 cup 140 gm 290 calories 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 " 80 

Milk 1 cup 250 c.c 170 « 

Butter, melted 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 120 " 

Baking powder 2 teaspoonfuls 8 " 

Salt }/i teaspoonf ul 1 " 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder together. Beat the ^^.^^^ to which 
add the milk, and beat in the flour gradually, using Dover egg beater. 
Now add the melted butter, and when the mixtvire is smooth and light, 
drop in smoking hot, greased iron gem pans, and bake forty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Aleuronat Bread (Ebstein). — 

Ordinary wheat flour 6 ounces 180 gm 600 calories 

Aleuronat powder 6 « 180 " 576 

Butter (best) 5 « 150 " 1,220 « 

Salt 1 teaspoonful . . . 1 " 

Baking powder M of ounce 22 " 

Milk 2 ounces 60 « 85 « 

Mix the flour and the aleuronat in a warm dish, and add gradually the 
melted butter and milk (made lukewarm), followed by the salt, and finally 
by the baking powder (one part of sodium carbonate and two parts of 
cream of tartar). The dough is well mixed, then molded into two loaves, 
and haked at a good heat. 

Bran Bread. — 

Bran 3^ pound 280 gm. 

Almond flour 2 ounces 60 " 375 calories 

Butter 3 « 90 « 720 

Eggs 6 (whole) 300 " 480 « 

Milk ^ pint 250 c.c 170 " 

Bicarbonate of soda 2 teaspoonfuls. . . 8 " 

Tartaric acid 1 teaspoonful ... 4 " 

Place the butter in a basin and beat it to a cream, then add the al- 
monds and beat well ; add the eggs one at a time. Partly mix in the b^an 
before adding the milk. Mix the whole together, place it in a well-but- 
tered tin, and bake for an hour in moderate oven. 

Camplin's Bran Cakes. — 

Wheat bran 1 quart. 543 gm. 

Eggs 3 (new laid) 150 " 240 calories 

Butter 2 ounces 60 « ^480 " 

Milk K pint 250 c.c 170 « 

Soda-bicarbonate 1 teaspoonful 4 gm. 



658 PKEPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Take a sufficient quantity of wheat bran, boil it in two successive 
waters for a quarter of an hour, each time straining it through a sieve; 
then wash it well with cold water (in the sieve) until the water runs off 
perfectly clear; squeeze the bran through a cloth as dry as possible, and 
spread it thinly on a dish ; place it in a slow oven ; if put in at night, let 
it remain until the morning, when, if perfectly dry and crisp, it will be 
ready for grinding. The bran thus prepared must be ground in a mill 
and sifted through a wire sieve that has so fine a mesh that a brush must 
be used to pass it through; that which remains in the sieve must be re- 
ground until it becomes quite soft and fine. Take of this bran powder 
three ounces (some persons use four ounces). Mix the eggs with a little 
of the milk, and warm the butter with the remainder; add the bran, and 
stir the whole well together, adding the soda and a little nutmeg or ginger 
or any other agreeable spice. Bake in small tins (patty pans), which 
must be well buttered, in a somewhat quick oven for about half an hour. 
When baked, the cakes should be a little thicker than a captain's biscuit ; 
they may be eaten with meat or cheese for breakfast, dinner or supper. 
At tea they require a somewhat liberal allowance of butter, or they may 
be eaten with curd or with any soft cheese. It is important that the flour 
be prepared as directed above. If the cakes do not keep well or if they 
have not been well prepared, place them before the fire for ten minutes 
every day. 

Wafaes 

French gluten flour 1 cup 140 gm 290 calories 

Eggs 2 (whole) 100 " 160 

Milk 1 cupful 250 c.c 170 

Butter 1 tablespoonful. ... 15 gm 120 

Baking powder l}/^ teaspoonfuls 6 " 

Salt li teaspoonful 1 " 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder together. Rub in the butter. Beat 
the eggs, to which add the milk, and stir in the flour gradually. Beat 
well, and bake on a hot, well-greased waffle iron. Serve hot, with butter 
or cream. 

Almond Cakes No. 1 (Saundby). — 

Almonds (ground) 1 pound 553 gm 3,030 calories 

Eggs 4 (whole) 200 « 320 

Milk 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c 40 « 

Salt a pinch 1 gm. 

Beat up the eggs, add the milk, stir in the almond flour and salt ; place 
in twelve flat tins and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. 



90 " 


720 


100 " 


160 


54 « 


195 


1 « 




92 " 


54 



RECIPES FOR DIABETIC FOODS 659 

Almond Cakes No. 2 (Seegen). — 

Sweet almonds \i pound 250 gm 757 calories 

Butter 3 ounces 

Eggs 2 (whole) 

Eggs 3 yolks 

Salt. a little 

Eggs 3 whites 

Break up the almonds in a stone mortar (or almond flour may be used). 
Put the flour thus prepared into a linen bag, which should then be im- 
mersed for one-quarter of an hour in boiling water, acidulated with a 
little vinegar, to remove the small amount of sugar from the almonds. 
Mix well with the butter and two eggs. Then add the three yolks of eggs 
and the salt, and stir the whole briskly for some time. Beat the whites 
of eggs to a fine froth and add to the mixture. The paste is then made 
into biscuits, smeared with butter, and baked with a gentle fire. 

Cocoanut Cakes. — 

Desiccated cocoanut powder. ... 1 pound 553 gm 3,000 calories 

Yeast 1 cake 30 " 

Warm water 2 ounces 60 c.c. 

Eggs 2 (whole) 100 gm 160 « 

Milk 2 ounces 60 c.c 80 « 

Salt 1 saltspoonful 1 gm. 

Mix water and yeast into a paste ; add to cocoanut powder, if neces- 
sary using more water. After thoroughly mixing, leave in a warm place 
for thirty minutes. Beat up the eggs and milk, add salt, then put into 
mixing bowl with the cocoanut powder and yeast; heat again and mix 
thoroughly. Then place into a well-greased gem pan containing sixteen 
compartments. Bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty minutes. Al- 
mond cakes may be made in the same way. 

Aleuronat and Almond Cakes (Williamson). — 

Aleuronat 3 ounces 90 gm 288 calories 

Almond flour 3 « 90 « 561 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 « 80 « 

Cream 2 teaspoonf uls 30 c.c 108 " 

Water a little 30 « 

Moisten the aleuronat with a little water containing saccharin and 
let it stand for a few minutes; then add the almond flour, the q^'^, the 
cream, and the water just as required to make a light paste. Spread on 
a tin. Cut into squares, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 



660 PREPARATION^ OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Almond Biscuit (Mrs. Hart). — 

Almond flour 1 pound 553 gm 3,030 calories 

Eggs 2 whites 64 « 36 " 

Salt to taste ^ teaspoonful 1 " 

To the flour add the whites of the eggs and salt. Whip the whites 
to a stiif froth, add the almond flour, and beat well together. Put in but- 
tered patty pans and bake in a moderately quick oven for from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. The whole must be done quickly, and baked as soon as 
the ingredients are mixed. This biscuit is a useful substitute for bread. 

Alenronat Pancakes (Williamson). — 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 calories 

Water and cream a little 30 c.c 54 " 

Aleuronat powder 2 teaspoonfuls 30 gm ". . . . 187 " 

Baking powder J^ teaspoonful 2 " 

Salt a little 1 « 

Beat up the egg in the water and cream; mix the aleuronat powder, 
baking powder and salt, and then add gradually to the egg and cream and 
beat into a batter; allow it to stand for five minutes. If it is too thick, 
add a little more cream and water. Fry in an ordinary frying-pan 
greased with a little lard. At the end of about eight minutes, when the 
under surface is browned, turn it over and continue to bake for five min- 
utes longer. 

Aleuronat and Suet Pudding (Williamson). — 

Aleuroiiat flour 2 ounces 60 gm 374 calories 

Suet 2 « 60 « 540 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 « 80 « 

Salt a pinch 1 " 

Baking powder \^ teaspoonful 2 " 

This is a palatable and cheap dish. Sprinkle a little aleuronat flour 
on a chopping-board and chop the suet on this part of the board. Then 
mix the remaining aleuronat with the suet in a pan. Add the salt and 
the baking powder. Beat up the egg in about three tablespoonfuls of 
water to which a little saccharin has been added. Add the egg gradually to 
the suet mixture, rubbing the whole mass well into a paste. It may be nec- 
essary to add a little more water. Drop into a tin pudding mold smeared 
with butter or lard, float it in a pan of water, and boil for two hours, tak- 
ing care that the l)oiling water does not get into the mold ; or, better still, 
the pudding may be baked in the oven. Its taste is improved bv the addi- 



RECIPES FOR DIABETIC FOODS 661 

tion of half an ounce of almonds. A small quantity of red wine may 
serve as a sauce. 

Cocoanut Pancakes (Williamson). — 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gin 80 calories 

Milk 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 c.c 25 " 

Salt a pinch 1 gm. 

Cocoanut powder 2 tablespoonfuls. . . 30 " 187 " 

Beat up the egg in the milk, or, better, in a little cream and water, 
and add the salt. Then add the cocoanut powder (freed from sugar). Al- 
low this to stand from five to ten minutes. Add a little more cream 
and water. Mix well until it is a little thicker than ordinary pancake 
batter. Put a little lard in the frying-pan and heat until the lard is just 
melted; then drop in half of the mixture^ Allow this to remain over a 
moderate fire for a few minutes — about five — until the under surface is 
brown; then turn the cake over and heat for another five minutes. The 
other half of the mixture may be used for the second pancake. 

Cocoanut Cakes (Williamson). — 

Cocoanut powder 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 45 gm 250 calories 

German yeast a little 1 " 

Water q. s. 

Solution of saccharin small quantity 0.5 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 « 80 " 

Cream 2 teaspoonfuls 30 c.c 60 " 

Mix the cocoanut powder into a paste with the yeast and water. The 
mixture should be allowed to remain by the fire or in a warm place for 
about twenty minutes, or until fermentation occurs and it becomes 
"pufi^y." Then add the watery solution of saccharin. Beat up the egg, 
and add this with the cream and a little water to the cocoanut paste. The 
whole should be well mixed, dropped into small tins, and baked in an oven 
for about thirty minutes. 

Cocoanut and Almond Cakes (Saundby). — 

Cocoanut powder (finest) ^ pound 277 gm 2,250 calories 

Ground almonds H " 138 « 760 

Eggs 6 (whole) 300 " 480 

Milk H cupful 125 c.c 85 

Beat up the eggs and stir in the cocoanut and almond flour. Divide 
into sixteen flat tins, and bake for twenty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

142 



662 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL BEVERAGES AND FOODS 

Cocoanut Pudding (Williamson). — 

Cocoanut powder 3 tablespoonfuls. . . 45 gm 275 calories 

Water a little 30 c.c. 

German yeast a little 1 gm. 

Cream 4 tablespoonfuls. . . 60 c.c 120 " 

Egg 1 (whole) 50 gm 80 « 

Salt a little 1 « 

Water sweetened with saccharin . 3^ pint 

Mix the cocoanut powder with a little water and German yeast, and 
keep for twenty minutes in a warm place, so as to allow the small quantity 
of sugar present to decompose ; add the cream, egg, a little salt, and water 
sweetened with saccharin. Mix into a paste. Place in a dish greased with 
butter. Cook like rice pudding, in a slow oven for thirty minutes. 

Almond Pudding (Mrs. Hart). — 

Eggs 2 (whole) 100 gm 160 calories 

Almond flour % pound 138 " 760 

Butter ]4 " 140 « 900 « 

Saccharin 3 tabloids 1 * 

Brandy 1 tablespoonful. . . . 15 « 100 « 

Warm thp butter, beat in the almond flour and the yolks of the eggs, 
and add the saccharin dissolved in the brandy. Whip the whites into a 
stiff froth, and beat all together. Put into dariole molds and bake in a 
quick oven. Serve with a little hot sauce made with dry sherry and sac- 
charin. 

REFERENCES 

1. Caultey. Sutherland's System of Dietetics. 

2. Friedenwald and.RuHRAii. Diet in Health and Disease. 

3. Bartholow. The Practice of Medicine. 

4. Thompson, W. Oilman. Practical Dietetics. 

5. Watson. Foods and Feeding. 

6. Wegele. Gastro-intestinal Tract, pub. by Rebman Co., New York. 

7. Atwater, H. W. Bread and Breadmaking, U. S. Dept. of Agric, 

1910, Bull. No. 389. 

8. Pattee. Diet in Disease. 

9. Gautier. Diet and Dietetics, Paris, Franca 
10. Chittenden. Am. J. Med. Sci., vol. vi. No. 6. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

AEMY AND NAVY RATIONS 
George N. Kkeider, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.S. 

U. S. Army Rations: Garrison Ration; Field Ration; Haversack Ration; 
Travel Ration ; Filipino Ration ; Emergency Ration ; Savings ; Con- 
centrated Food; Company Dietaries; Tropical Dietaries; Army Ra- 
tions Past and Present. 

Rations for Boys' Military Training Camps: Menu, Boys' Military 
Training Camp, Fort Terry, N. Y. ; Properly Balanced Dietaries for 
Boys' Military Training Camps. 

Rations of Foreign Armies : Germany ; Russia ; Japan ; France ; Great 
Britain; Systems of Supply; Comparative Rations of the Armies of 
the World. 

Diet in Prison Camps. 

Conclusions Regarding the Composition and Food Value of the Military 
Ration. 

Navy Rations. 

U. S. ARMY RATIONS 

The best ration for a soldier is a subject which has held the attention 
of army officers for many decades. An army is a collection of active, 
disciplined, healthy men in the prime of life, to be nsed as a fighting force 
in the service of the nation, and it is the prime object of military admin- 
istration so to govern and train such men that they shall be fit when 
fighters are needed. 

Unless a man is maintained in a good physical condition, he is use- 
less for military purposes. For this reason the utmost care and attention 
should be given by commanding officers to every detail which pertains 
to the health of the soldier. Improper clothing, food, shelter and exercise 
are all sure to result in a loss of efficiency, but it is without question that 
insufficient food, improper food, or food improperly prepared will lead to 
damage or disaster more quickly than any other cause. A well-balanced 
ration, therefore, is the first and foremost question to be considered if the 
individual soldier's efficiency is to be maintained. 

The quantity of each kind of foodstuff the soldier shall have usually 
rests, when the law allows a choice, with the department commander. It 

663 



664 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



has been the usual custom to order a ten days' ration in which there are 
seven issues of beef, two of bacon, and one of pork. If the soldier can, 
with the help of outside purchases, manage to subsist for ten days on the 
beef allowed for seven, he saves the money value of one day's pork ration 
and two of bacon, and these savings are usually turned into a company 
fund from which extra food can be purchased on holidays, when there 
is a convenient market, as, for instance, turkey on Thanksgiving and 
Christmas and eggs at Easter. This fund is considered of the highest 
importance, and new restrictions are constantly being thrown around it 
to prevent the savings from the ration being diverted to other purposes. 



TEN DAYS* RATION UNCXX)KED FOOD FOR AN AVERAGE DAILY OF 440.4 MEN (WOOD- 

RUFF(l) 



■- 


Gross 
Weight 


Waste 


Net 
Weight 


Weighta 


n Pounds 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Salts 


Calories 




Water 


Protein 






273H 
428H 
343Ji 
731 
4.379 
5,025 
5,116 
700 
44 
85 
10 
183 

39 

58 
165 
107H 

26 

63 
332 

S2M 

31 

31 

lOH 

35 

250 

32 

20 

5 

14 
3 


3N 
"si" 

■ i28^ 
1.131 
1,386 
150 

50 

4 

""■»■ 


270 

312>i 

731 

4.252 }{ 

3.894 

2.730 

550 

44 

85 

10 

183 

39 

58 
165 
107 >i 

26 

63 
332 

52H 

31 

31 

10 

15 

200 

28 

20 

5 

,S« 

3 


54.00 

54 .a5 

37.85 

21.93 

531.56 

2.196.70 

2.043.00 

481.80 

3.34 

12.76 

8.32 

46.86 

0.78 

6.09 

70.60 

12.90 

3.22 

51.22 

318.72 

6.88 
25.61 
7.75 
3.60 
10.00 

182.00 
11.63 
13.50 

0.65 
6.45 
0.48 


21.60 

09.10 

2.82 

467.78 
682.97 
78.33 
7.70 
6.65 
7.82 
0.02 
1.65 

6.68 

6.66 
1.92 
1.77 
2.66 

4.73 
1.68 
5.27 
3.30 
0.75 

4.20 
4.68 
0.40 
0.65 
1.20 
0.05 
0.60 


187.65 

8.57 

259.00 

'46.78 
978.38 
3.73 
1.65 
3.13 
3.23 
0.04 
3.30 

49.30 

89.66 
0.14 
0.70 
1.33 

0.15 
1.60 
3.41 
2.20 

0.60 
11.00 

6.14 
0.08 


253'.86 

3. 185. 12 

667.67 

65.55 

30.01 

60.01 

1.59 

130.85 

38.14 

0.29 

90.60 

20.66 
8.32 
8.30 

40.32 
2.00 

13.64 
0.50 
4.00 

11.00 

'6.66 

380 
2.64 
3.60 
0.30 


6.76 

13.29 

13.14 

3.66 

21.26 

35 95 

37.30 

3.30 

0.88 

1.19 

0.03 

2.67 

0.08 
1.74 
3.80 
4.30 
0.14 
0.38 
1.00 

0.42 
0.31 
0.93 
0.50 
0.26 

2.20 
0.76 
0.12 
0.15 
0.12 
0.08 
0.12 


831,600 




691,228 


Pork 


1,097,753 


Sugar, brown 

Flour 


1,312.081 
6,991,110 


Beef 


6.409,392 


Potatoes 


1,398,750 




123.750 


Oatmeal 


81,400 




139,825 


Apples, canned 

Apples, dried 

Tapioca (26) and 

cornstarch (13) . . . 

Butter 


3,150 
259.494 

70,980 
209,670 




168,795 


I^td 


383,775 


Rice 

Com. canned 

Tomatoes, canned . . . 

Macaroni (51) and 

vermicelli (l^)-. . 

Milk, fresh 


42,380 
21,7.35 
26,560 

73,816 
12,552 


Milk, condensed .... 
Cheese 


49,442 
16,000 




3,500 


Cabbage and sauer- 
kraut 


31,000 


Ham 


54.880 




9.200 


Barley 


9.000 


Peas 


7.043 




6.153 


Chocolate 


7.950 






Totals 


18.598 


2,908^ 


16.689H 


7.120.50 


1.413.21 


1.667.17 


6..343 66 


154.82 


19.446.960 







Daily average per 

man 

Counting flour as 
bread, amount eat- 
en is 4 lb. per man. 
Per cent of amount 
eaten 

Including Table V 
(salts only) {cms. . . 

Including estimated 
amounts in Tables 
VI and VII 



4.22 



Pounds 
66.15if 



H 



3.66,84)t 



4^,(2.8 

lb.) water 

free 



733 



45 
733 



145 



171 



11 



Grams 

550 



34 



16 



4,416 



U. S. ARMY RATIONS 



665 



PERCENTAGE OF WASTE 



Bacon 


1.40 
8.00 

3.30 
22.50 
27.09 
21.04 
33.00 
45.00 
12.00 




Pork 


Only 9 pounds were reported, but this was in- 
creased in 31 pounds, to include bones, etc. 
Crusts and small unavoidable wastes 


Bread 


Beef 


19^ bone, 2^^ fat, and other wastes 


Potatoes 


Parings and defective ones 


Onions 


Parings and defective ones 


Prunes 

Cabbage 

Ham 


Stones and other wastes 
Estimated 







ADDITIONAL ARTICLES CONSUMED 





Daily per 
man 


Allowance 


Remarks 


338 lbs. green coffee . . . 


1.23 ounces 


1.60 ounces 




8 lbs. tea 


0.03 ounce 


0.32 ounce 






[■Allowance is large to allow of a 








saving to be used in making 


20 gallons vinegar. . . . 


0.14 gill 


0.32 gill 


sauerkraut and pickles in the 
I fall 


10 lbs. pepper 


0.036 ounce 


0.04 ounce 




11 bott ed flavoring ex- 








tracts 








3 lbs. mustard 








24 lbs. baking powder. 








6 lbs. currants 








5 gallons pickles 






rThough containing much energy, 


4 kegs pickled pigs' 






it is omitted because composi- 


feet 






tion is unknown, and the actual 








amount per man is very small 



CONSUMPTION AND ALLOWANCE PER MAN 



Daily per 
man 



Allowance 



Remarks 



4 379 lbs. flour. . . . 
4,946H lbs. bread . 

343^ « pork.. 

273^ « bacon. 

5,025 lb.s. beef 

5,116 " potatoes. 

700 " onions. . 

428J^ lbs. beans. 

763 lbs. sugar. . . 
64 " butter. . 

137 " lard.... 
15 gallons sirup. 



15.91 

17.97 

1.34 

1.00 

18.30 

18.50 

2.50 

1.50 

2.70 

2.00 

0.50 

0.40 



ounce 
ounces 



giU 



18 ( 

18 
1.2 
2.4 

18.0 

12.8 
3.2 
2.4 
2.4 



Includes purchases 



80 per cent of vegetables 
20 per cent vegetables 



666 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

A ration (2) is the allowance for the subsistence of one person for one 
day and varies in components according to the station of the troops or the 
nature of the duty performed. The garrison ration is for troops in gar- 
rison or in permanent camps ; the field ration is for troops in the field with 
sufficient transportation; the haversack ration for troops in the field in 
active campaign, when transportation is limited ; the travel ration for 
troops traveling otherwise than by marching and separated from cooking 
facilities; the Filipino ration for use of the Philippine Scouts, and the 
emergency ration for troops in active campaign for use on occasions of 
emergency. The commanding officer will determine which of the several 
prescribed rations is appropriate for the particular service to be per- 
formed, and will direct the use of the same, Army Regulations, 1913, p. 
1202. 

When it becomes necessary to supplement the haversack ration in the 
exigencies of forced service, by local purchase or by shipments, the com- 
manding general may direct in written orders the issue in kind, to sup- 
plement the haversack ration, of such available articles of food as are 
actually necessary, not in excess of the amounts allowed of corresponding 
articles in the garrison ration. 

The tables on pages 667-668 are taken from the United States Army 
Regulations, p. 1202(3), which read: "The kinds and quantities of the 
component articles of the ration and the substitutive equivalent articles 
which may be used in place of such components shall be as follows" : 

Colonel Harvard, Medical Corps, U. S. A., in his splendid work on 
Military Hygiene (4), describes the various rations for the soldier, from 
which, with his permission, several sections are quoted herewith: 

"The garrison ration, as may be seen, admits of many combinations 
which insure variety. It is comprehensive and elastic, and can be ad- 
justed to any climate. By selecting the most nutritive articles, such as 
bacon, hard bread or cornmeal, beans, potatoes, dried fruit, butter and 
sirup, we can obtain from it a maximum fuel value of 5,378 calories, 
according to Langworthy, or 5,674 calories, according to Wiley. On the 
other hand, by using such articles as dried fish, soft bread, rice, potatoes, 
canned tomatoes and dried fruit, the fuel value can be reduced to 2,500 
calories. The average garrison ration, habitually consisting of fresh beef, 
soft bread, beans, potatoes and onions, dried fruit, butter, sirup and 
sugar (or their nutritive equivalents), weighs 65 ounces and contains 99 
grams of fat, 481 of carbohydrates and 157 of proteins, with total fuel 
value of 3,536 calories (4). 



U. S. ARMY EATIONS 
GARRISON RATION ' 



667 



COMPONENT ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 



Beef, fresh 20 



ounces 



Flour 18 



Baking powder. 
Beans 



0.08 
2.4 



Potatoes" 20 



SUBSTITUTIVE ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 



Mutton, fresh 20 ounces 

Bacon* 12 

Canned meat, when imprac- 
ticable to furnish fresh 
meat 16 " 

Hash, corned beef, when im- 
practicable to furnish 
fresh meat 16 " 

Fish, dried 14 " 

Fish, pickled 18 « 

Fish, canned 16 " 

Chicken or turkey, dressed, 
on national holidays when 
practicable 16 " 

Soft bread 18 « 

Hard bread, to be ordered 
issued only when im- 
practicable to use flour or 
soft bread 16 « 

Corn meal 20 « 

Rice. 1.6 « 

Hominy 1.6 " 

Potatoes, canned 15 " 

Onions, in lieu of an equal 
quantity of potatoes, but 
not exceeding 20 per cent 
of total issue. 

Tomatoes, canned, in lieu of 
an equal quantity of 
potatoes, but not exceed- 
ing 20 per cent of total 
issue. 

Other fresh vegetables (not 
canned) when they can be 
obtained in the vicinity or 
transported in a whole- 
some condition from a dis- 
tance, in lieu of an equal 
quantity of potatoes, but 
not exceeding 30 per cent 
of total issue. 

Apples, dried or evaporated . 1 . 28 " 

Peaches, dried or evaporated 1 . 28 " 



1 Food for troops traveling on United States Army transports will be prepared from 
the articles of subsistence stores which compose the ration for troops in garrison, 
varied by the substitution of other articles of authorized subsistence stores, the total 
cost of the food consumed not to exceed 24 cents per man per day. 

2 In Alaska, 16 ounces bacon, or, when desired, 16 ounces salt pork, or 22 ounces 
salt beef. 

3 In Alaska the allowance of fresh vegetables will be 24 ounces instead of 20 ounces, 
or canned potatoes, 18 ounces instead of 15 ounces. 



668 



AKMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



COMPONENT ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 

Prunes* 1 . 28 ounces 

Coffee, roasted and ground. 1.12 " 

Sugar 3.2 

Milk, evaporated, unsweet- 
ened 0.5 

Vinegar 0. 16 gill 

Salt . 64 ounce 

Pepper, black 0.04 " 

Cinnamon 0.014 " 

Lard 0.64 " 

Butter 0.5 « 

Sirup 0.32 gill 

Flavoring extract, lemon. . . 0.014 " 



SUBSTITUTIVE ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 



Jam, in lieu of an equal quan- 
tity of prunes, but not ex- 
ceeding 50 per cent of total 
issue. 
Coffee, roasted, not ground . 1.12 ounces 

Coffee, green 1.4 " 

Tea, black or green 0.32 « 

Pickles, cucumber, in lieu of 
an equal quantity of vine- 
gar, but not exceeding 50 
per cent of total issue. 



Cloves . 014 ounce 

Ginger 0.014 " 

Nutmeg 0.014 " 

Oleomargarin 0.5 " 

Vanilla 0.014 « 



1 At least 30 per cent of the issue to be prunes when practicable. 



"Fresh meats are ordinarily issued seven days in ten, and bacon three 
days. 

"The garrison ration is often supplemented by articles obtained from 
the post garden or purchased from the company fund, which largely con- 
tribute to give it variety and appetizing value. 

"In order to facilitate the supplying of troops and the keeping of ac- 
counts, the former system of issue has been replaced by that of purchase. 

"All articles of the garrison, travel, or Filipino ration due a company 
or other military organization, will be retained by the Quartermaster 
Corps, and credit given to the organization for the money value of these 
articles at the current price of the articles. 

"The stores required by the organization will be purchased from the 
Quartermaster Corps, and the latter will pay as savings to the organiza- 
tion commander any excess in value of the stores retained over those 
purchased. At the end of the month, or whenever necessary, the organiza- 
tion commander will settle the account with the Quartermaster Corps, 
when the savings to the organization, or the amount due to the Quarter- 



U. S. ARMY RATIONS 669 

master Corps, as the case may be, will be paid, and the account certified 
as required. 

"The price of bread, as charged against organizations, is determined 
by adding together the cost of flour and other ingredients used, the extra- 
duty pay of the bakery personnel, the cost of the power used in operating 
the baking machinery, and then dividing by the total number of pounds 
of bread baked. It follows that the organizations are thus given the bene- 
fit of whatever savings accrue from the conversion of flour into bread after 
deducticHi of all expenses. 

"Money accruing from the 'ration and savings account' of an organi- 
zation will be spent only for food. 

"All articles of the ration required for the supply of troops will be 
obtained from the Quartermaster Corps when on hand, but should any 
organization want more of any article than is allowed by regulation, the 
excess may be purchased elsewhere ; or if any article is not in stock, it can 
likewise be bought elsewhere. 

"When necessary to renew reserve rations, or to avoid loss of ration 
article^ that have accumulated, the commanding general or commanding 
officer, as the case may be, may order the issue of such supplies to troops, 
not to exceed the ration allowance and only for such time as the interest 
of the Government requires. 

"The value of the garrison ration is estimated at twenty-five cents ; the 
Filipino ration at twenty cents, and the travel ration at forty cents. 

"Under circumstances when enlisted men or nurses cannot be furnished 
with rations in kind, or it is impracticable to carry them, commutation 
may be allowed at rates ranging from twenty-five cents to $1,50 a day. 

"The ration of enlisted men sick in hospital, and of female nurses 
while on duty in hospital, is commuted at the rate of thirty cents per 
ration, except that aj^ the general hospital at Fort Bayard, 'N. M., fifty 
cents per ration is authorized for enlisted patients therein. 

"Other issues of stores, not components of rations, may be authorized 
when necessary for the public service and made on ration returns ap- 
proved by the commanding officer, such as soap, candles, matches, toilet 
paper, towels and ice. 

"Ice is issued by the Quartermaster Corps to organizations of enlisted 
men as follows : for each ration, four pounds, the maximum allowance to 
any organization or detachment of less than 100 men to be 100 pounds 
a day, and to organizations of 100 men or more to be one pound a day, 
per man. The full allowance may be issued for the entire year to troops 



670 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



stationed south of the 37th parallel. To troops stationed north of the 
37th parallel, and where from any cause it is impracticable to cut and 
store ice for their use, the allowance will be only for the summer months, 
from April 1 to October 31. A special allowance is provided for States 
on the Pacific Coa8t(4)." 

FIELD RATION 



COMPONENT ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 



Beef, fresh, when procura- 
ble locally 20 

Flour 18 

Baking powder, when ovens 

are not available . 64 

Yeast, dried or compressed, 

when ovens are available . . 04 
Beans 2.4 



ounces 



Potatoes, when procurable 
locally 16 

Jam 1.4 " 

Coffee, roasted or ground ... 1.12 " 

Sugar 3.2 

Milk, evaporated, unsweet- 
ened 0.5 

Vinegar 0.16 gill 

Salt 0.64 ounce 

Pepper, black 0.04 



SUBSTITUTE ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 

Mutton, fresh, when pro- 
curable locally 20 ounces 

Canned meat 16 " 

Bacon 12 « 

Hash, corned beef 16 * 

Soft bread 18 « 

Hard bread 16 « 

Rice 1.6 « 

Potatoes, canned 12 " 

Onions, when procurable 

locally, in lieu of an equal 

quantity of potatoes, but 

not exceeding 20 per 

cent of total issue. 
Tomatoes, canned, in lieu of 

an equal quantity of pota- 
toes, but not exceeding 20 

per cent of total issue. 

Tea, black or green 0.32 « 



Pickles, cucumber, in lieu of 
an equal quantity of vine- 
gar, but not exceeding 50 
per cent of total issue. 



The field ration is the ration prescribed in orders by the commander 
of the field forces. Tt consists of the reserve ration in whole or in part, 
supplemented by articles of food requisitioned or purchased locally, or 
shipped from the rear, provided such supplements or substitutes corre- 



tJ. S. ARMY BATIOKS 



671 



spond generally with the component articles or substitutive equivalents 
of the garrison ration (Army Regulations, 1913, par. 1205). 



HAVERSACK RATION 



COMPONENT ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 

Bacon 12 ounces 

Hard bread 16 

Coffee, roasted and ground .1.12 " 

Sugar 2.4 

Salt 0.16 " 

Pepper, black 0.02 « 



SUBSTITUTIVE ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES! 



1 We would recommend the use of malted milk tablets as an addition to the haver- 
sack field and travel ration of the soldier. We have personally used these and feel 
assured that they would be a valuable addition from the viewpoint of compactness, 
solubility and the nutrient energy contained. 

"The haversack ration is issued to troops in the field when beyond the 
advance supply depots. It contains about 218 grams of fats, 489 of carbo- 
hydrates and 113 of proteins, with total fuel value of 4,448 calories. 
Should it be found practicable to supplement it by local purchase or other- 
wise, the commanding general may direct the issue in kind of such addi- 
tional articles of food as are available, at whatever cost, but not in excess 
of the amounts allowed of corresponding articles in the garrison ration. 

''The bacon is contained in a rectangular tin can with capacity for two 
rations. The sugar, coffee and salt are contained in another rectangular 
tin can, two and one-half inches square, five inches long, and with rounded 
corners ; a cross partition divides it in two compartments, for three days' 
rations of coffee and sugar; the ends are closed with screw covers. The 
screw cover on the sugar compartment has a round receptacle two inches 
in diameter, one-half inch deep, closed with a compression friction top, 
for carrying three days' rations of salt. 

"In the field, bacon, in the absence of fresh meat, becomes an invalu- 
able component of the ration, easily kept and transported, readily digested 
when well cooked, and furnishing abundant energy for severe muscular 
work. A quarter ounce of soap per ration is also issued (in ounce cakes). 

"Existing orders prescribe that one day in each alternate month of the 
season of practical instruction, not exceeding three days in each year, the 
use of the haversack ration, with individual mess-kit, will be required of 
all troops in the field for purposes of instruction (4).'* 



672 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

TRAVEL RATION 



COMPONENT ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 



Soft bread 18 ounces 

Beef, corned 12 

Beans, baked 4 " 

Tomatoes, canned 8 " 

Jam 1.4 

Coffee, roasted and ground. 1.12 " 

Sugar 2.4 

Milk, evaporated, unsweet- 
ened 0.5 " 



SUBSTITUTIVE ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 



Hard bread 16 ounces 

Hash, corned beef 12 " 



The fuel value of this ration is about 2,735 calories. 
FILIPINO RATION 



COMPONENT ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 



Beef, fresh 12 ounces 

Flour 8 

Baking powder, when in 

field and ovens are not 

available. 

Rice 20 

Potatoes 8 

Coffee, roasted and ground . . 1 " 

Sugar 2 

Vinegar 0.08 gill 

Salt . 64 ounce 

Pepper, black 0.02 " 



SUBSTITUTIVE ARTICLES AND 
QUANTITIES 

Bacon 16 ounces 

Canned meat 8 " 

Fish, canned 12 " 

Fish, fresh 12 « 

Hard bread 8 « 

Onions 8 " 



"The components of the ration yield a maximum fuel value of 3,980 
calories. As is well known, Filipinos, like other Oriental races, manifest 
a marked preference for rice, to the exclusion of more nutritious food, 
thereby rendering themselves liable to beriberi. To guard the scouts 
against such possibilities, it is prescribed that only unpolished rice be 
issued to them and that no more than sixteen ounces per day be used. 
They are also required to use the entire meat allowance. For the portion 
of the rice ration not drawn, 1.6 ounces of beans are substitued, while 
native products, such as camotes, mangoes and squash, are utilized to as 
large an extent as possible(4)." 

Savings. — All articles of the garrison and travel ration due a company 
or other organization, will be retained by the quartermaster and credit 



U. S. ARMY RATIONS 673 

given to the organization for the money value of these articles at the cur- 
rent price of the articles ; and the quartermaster will pay as savings to the 
organization commanders any excess in value of the stores so retained 
over those purchased by the organization. Such savings shall be used 
solely for the purpose of articles of food. 

In time of peace the ration savings privilege, with the exception here- 
inafter noted, will be suspended for troops on the march. The ration to 
be issued to troops on the march in time of peace will be prescribed by 
the commander and will not exceed the allowances prescribed for the gar- 
rison ration. When so ordered by such commander, the savings privilege 
on certain specified articles of the ration will be allowed (5). 

EMERGENCY RATION 

An emergency ration, prepared under the direction of the War De- 
partment, will be issued, in addition to the regular ration, as required for 
troops on active campaign or in the field for purposes of instruction, and 
will not be opened except by order of an officer or in extremity. Company 
and detachment commanders are responsible for the proper care and use 
of emergency rations carried on the person of the soldier. 

"The emergency ration used in our service, prior to 1910, weighed 
twelve ounces net and consisted of wheat, meat, chocolate and seasoning. 
Its preparation was so elaborate as to require special plants, so that, in 
case of mobilization on a large scale, the supply would have been inade- 
quate. The components of the present ration are such as to be readily 
obtained and prepared to any extent needed (4). They are as follows: 

Chocolate liquor 45 . 45 per cent 

Nucleo-casein 7.25 " " 

Malted milk 7.25 « « 

Egg albumin 14.55 " " 

Powdered cane sugar 21 . 82 " " 

Cocoa butter 3.64 « « 

The chemical analysis shows: 

Protein 25 . 24 per cent 

Amino-bodies. .88 « « 

Fat 28.05 « « 

Carbohydrates 39.11 " « 

Caffein and theobromin 17 " " 

Ash 3.27 " " 

"Each ration weighs eight ounces net and is put up in three cakes of 
equal size, each cake wrapped in tinfoil, and all three inclosed in a her- 



674 AEMY AND NAVY KATIONS 

metically sealed and lacquered round-cornered tin, with key-opening at- 
tachment. Its fuel value is 1,272 calories, and its cost forty cents. 

''From previous experiments it is believed that this ration can be kept 
in store, even in the tropics, for several years without loss or deteriora- 
tion. As a compact and portable food preparation, intended to tide over 
a day or two iintil regular supplies are available, it is undoubtedly well 
adapted to its purpose. However, there is serious doubt of its necessity, 
and the Infantry Equipment Board of 1912 recommended that it be abol- 
ished and replaced by the haversack ration, a recommendation that has 
not yet been approved (4)." 



SELECTION OF RATIONS 

Concerning the selection of a ration, Woodruff says: 

An army must be fed at a great distance from the market, and it is, there- 
fore, evident that the chief objects in view in the selection of the soldier's food 
must be facility of transportation and ease of preservation in all climates. Arti- 
cles that are bulky or easily damaged by rough handling, and those that are not 
easily preserved from decay, are at once ruled out. It need scarcely be men- 
tioned that the articles must be produced in abundance throughout the country, 
neither imported nor the particular preparations of a few manufacturers. Couple 
with this the fact that the articles must be so inexpensive as to refute any charges 
of extravagance, and it will be readily understood that with a few exceptions 
the ration contains about all the articles that it is possible to put in at present 
without calling on foods that are preserved, canned, or otherwise specially pre- 
pared. 

Concentrated Foods. — The one great objection to prepared foods is the 
ease with which adulterations and other frauds can be perpetrated. Qual- 
ity of foods can be easily determined if seen in the natural state, but let 
them be ground up and mixed with other things, and fraud will be diffi- 
cult to detect. It is a fact that contractors for army food, knowing that 
the lives of the soldiers and the safety of the nation may depend on the 
character of the army supplies, will yet jeopardize the lives of thousands 
of men by fraudulently supplying inferior articles. The military history 
of the United States furnishes a host of illustrations. Operations and 
even campaigns have been hampered or made disastrous by faulty food. 

Another objection to concentrated foods as a sole and continuous diet 
is the fact that they do not furnish sufficient bulk. They may contain 
the proper amounts of energy and alimentation, yet they can never be 



U. S. ARMY RATIONS 675 

used exclusively. They are not intended to be so used except in emergen- 
cies and for short periods. 

Company Dietaries. — We give below a week's bill of fare furnished 
by two different company commanders. The first is very liberal, and the 
latter far below the normal standard. In contrast, they exemplify in the 
most fortunate way some of the remarks previously made as to the con- 
ditions of service varying the bill of fare : 

COMPANY DIETARY AT A WESTERN FORT 

Monday 
Breakfast: Beef stew; fried potatoes; corn bread; sirup; bread; butter; coffee. 
Dinner: Meat pie; mashed potatoes; turnips; cabbage; pickled pork; bread; 

coffee. 
Supper: Beefsteak with onions; squash pie; bread and coffee. 

Tuesday 
Breakfast: Roast beef; fried potatoes; bread; butter; coffee. 
Dinner: Pea soup; roast beef; baked potatoes; stewed onions; cauliflower; 

tapioca pudding; bread and coffee. 
Supper: Meat stew; fried carrots; apple pie; bread; coffee. 
Wednesday 
Breakfast: Oatmeal; milk; meat hash; bread; coffee. 

Dinner: Sauerkraut; pickled pork; mashed potatoes; pickled beets; rice pud- 
ding; bread and coffee. 
Supper: Fried sausage meat; fried potatoes; green corn; blancmange pudding; 
bread and coffee. 

Thursday 
Breakfast: Beefsteak with onions; fried potatoes; bread; coffee. 
Dinner: Roast beef; mashed potatoes; stewed onions; pickled beets; plum 

pudding; bread and coffee. 
Supper: Fried liver and bacon; fried carrots; squash pie; bread; coffee. 

Friday 

Breakfast: Beefsteak; fried potatoes; bread; butter; coffee. 

Dinner: Pork and beans; peach pie; bread; coffee. 

Supper: Cold beef; corn bread; sirup; apple sauce; bread; coffee. 
Saturday 

Breakfast: Meat hash; oatmeal; milk; bread; butter; coffee. 

Dinner: Vegetable soup; mashed potatoes; roast beef; pickles; tapioca pud- 
ding; bread; coffee. 

Supper: Beef stew; green-apple pie; bread; butter; coffee. 
Sunday 

Breakfast: Roast beef; baked potatoes; hot rolls; sirup; bread; butter; coffee. 

Dinner: Sauerkraut; pickled pork; mashed potatoes; roast beef ; bread; coffee. 

Supper: Meat pie; rice pudding; bread; butter; coffee. 

(Gravy always served with meats, and sauce with puddings.) 



676 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



Irish stew; bread; coffee. 

Pea soup (with toasted bread); roast beef; boiled potatoes; bread. 

Beef; pancakes; sirup; bread; coffee. 



COMPANY DIETARY AT A SOUTHERN POST 
Monday 

Breakfast: Beef hash (with onions and potatoes); bread; coffee. 

Dinner: Rice and tomato soup; roast beef; roasted potatoes; bread 

Supper: Beef (same as dinner); bread; coffee. 
Tuesday 

Breakfast 

Dinner: 

Supper: 
Wednesday 

Breakfast: Meat hash (with potatoes and onions); bread and coffee. 

Dinner: Roast beef; mashed potatoes; plum pudding; bread and coffee 

Supper: Fried Hver and bacon; bread and coffee. 
Thursday 

Breakfast 

Dinner: 

Supper: 
Friday 

Breakfast: Irish stew; bread and coffee. 



Beef hash; bread and coffee. 

Baked fresh pork; baked beans; bread and coffee. 

Beefsteak; fried potatoes; bread and coffee. 



Dinner: 
Supper: 
Saturday 
Breakfast: 
Dinner: 



Supper: 
Sunday 
Breakfast 
Dinner: 
Supper: 



Rice and tomato soup; roast beef; boiled potatoes; bread. 
Beef; fried potatoes; bread and coffee. 

Beef hash; bread and coffee. 

Rice and tomato soup; roast beef; boiled potatoes; spiced bread dress- 
ing; bread. 
Meat pot-pie; bread and coffee. 



Fri^d pork; fried potatoes; bread and coffee. 

Pea soup, with toasted bread; roast beef; boiled potatoes; bread. 

Beef; fried potatoes; bread; coffee. 

(Gravy always served with meats, and sauce with puddings.) 

Tropical Dietaries. — There has been but little change in the army 
ration during recent years, except when controlled by climatic conditions; 
the army in a cold climate cannot thrive on the same diet that an army 
in the tropics would do well on, and vice versa. In a cold climate articles 
of the dietary, subjected to extreme temperatures, will be spoiled by 
freezing and must be eliminated from the ration. This will exclude 
potatoes, fresh vegetables, and canned goods that are in liquid form. On 
the other hand, in the tropics food that excessive heat would spoil or that 
cannot be safely preserved must be avoided. The ration under such cir- 
cumstances will have to be so arranged that it may be readily suitable for 
climatic changes. 

It is well known that our army in the Philippines lived on less food 
than they would require in a cold or temperate climate. This difference 
is marked, more especially, in the consumption of meat and fatty foods. 
Of course, if an army is undergoing active service on prolonged marches, 



U. S. ARMY RATIONS 677 

the meat allowance will have to be correspondingly increased to make up 
for the wear and tear of the muscular system. In the Surgeon-General's 
Report of the United States Army for 1900, Major Kean is quoted. 

He premises that a tropical dietary, as compared with one suited to 
a colder climate, should have less fat and more carbohydrates, less stim- 
ulating proteins in the form of meat, a greater variety of diet both of 
meats and carbohydrates in the form of fresh vegetables and fruits, and, 
lastly, a fairly liberal supply of ice. His argument for the substitution 
of carbohydrates for fats is that the digestion is weakened in hot climates 
and the liver is inclined to torpidity, while ingested fats are prone to 
split up into butyric, caproic, and other irritating acids, which the dimin- 
ished secretion of the liver is unable to neutralize. As intestinal digestion 
cannot proceed in the presence of acidity, the condition known as bilious- 
ness is established, with putrefaction of the intestinal contents and the 
production of various harmful alkaloid substances. A catarrhal in- 
flammation of the bowel results, with diarrhea, which is at first of 
advantage in eliminating the harmful substances, but which under the 
continued irritation of unsuitable diet is liable to continue and become 
aggravated. As to a lessened use of meat, he cites the dietary customs 
of the inhabitants of hot climates, who get their proteins less from meat 
than from the leguminosse. The appetite is lessened by long and contin- 
ued heat and becomes capricious. It craves variety, especially in vege- 
tables and fruits, and these he claims cannot be had on the basis of our 
present ration. The need of ice to furnish a cool drinking water and to 
preserve the perishable constituents of the ration is regarded as obvious. 

In a previous chapter (Volume II, Chapter XII) we have discussed 
the subject of diet in tropical countries and to this the reader is referred. 
From what has been advanced in this section, it will be seen that the pro- 
portionate composition and fuel value of the proposed standard dietary 
for troops serving in the tropics should be about as follows: 

Protein 100 grams 

Fats 65 " 

Carbohydrates . . 650 " 
Fuel value 3,491 calories 

This would give a nitrogen content of 16 grams and a nutrient ratio of 
protein energy, 1.8. The proximate alimentary principles whose quan- 
tities and relative proportions are represented in the above nutrient stand- 
ard for the tropics can be properly apportioned in the ideal ration for hot 
climates, only as a result of an accurate knowledge of the percentage com- 
143 



678 



AKMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



position of such articles of food as may be selected to enter into its 
composition. 

According to Mimson(6), the determination of these foodstuffs for the 
American soldier is an easy task. The present United States army 
ration is made up of admirably selected articles, in more than sufficient 
variety. It is, therefore, not only wholly unnecessary, but quite inadvis- 
able, to consider in this connection any nutritive substances outside those 
articles legally established as components of food for the United States 
soldier. 

Munson suggests the following tables for tropical dietaries. These 
tables show the nutrient value of a proposed dietary for the tropics con- 
taining the greatest amount of food material which can be drawn by the 
soldier : 

Table I 
TROPICAL DIETARY 



Articles 


Quantity: 
Ounces 


Fats: 
Grama 


Carbo- 
hydrates: 
Grams 


Protein: 
Grams 


Nitrogen: 
Grams 


Fuel 

Value: 

Calories 


Fresh beef 


10 
18 

2.4 
16 

3 

3.5 


44.75 

5.60 

1.22 

.45 

1.53 


380.46 
40.18 
81.70 
33.80 
94.25 


41.68 

55.08 

15.16 

9.50 

1.77 


6.67 
7.90 
2.42 
1.52 
.27 


590 


Plour 


1,850 


Beans 


240 


Potatoes 


380 


Dried fruit 


220 


Sugar 


397 






Total 


52.9 


53.55 


630.39 


123.19 


18.78 


3,677 





Total carbon, 395.14 grams; nitrogen to carbon, 1:19.6. 
The following table shows a dietary proposed by Munson, especially 
applicable to tropical field service, in which the fatty constituents attain 
their maximum and the potential energy is high: 

Table II 
TROPICAL DIETARY 



Articles 


Quantity: 
Ounces 


Fats: 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrates: 
Grams 


Protein : 
Grams 


Nitrogen: 
Grams 


Fuel 

Value: 

Calories 


Bacon 


6 
18 
2.4 
3 
3.5 


105.06 
6.63 
1.22 
1.53 


371.81 
40.18 
50.70 
94.25 


15.64 

73.12 

15.16 

1.77 


3.49 

11.74 

2.42 

.27 


1,042 


Hard bread 

Beans 


1.926 
240 


Dried fruit 


220 


Sugar 


397 






Total 


32.9 


114.44 


556.94 


105.69 


16.92 


3,825 









Total carbon, 328.76 grams; nitrogen to carbon, 1:23. 



U. S. ARMY RATIONS 



679 



The following is an outline of the ordinary dietary, which Munson 
proposes for garrison duty in the tropics : 



Table III 
TROPICAL DIETARY 



Articles 


Quantity: 
Ounces 


Fats: 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrates : 
Grams 


Protein: 
Grams 


Nitrogen : 
Grams 


Fuel 
Value: 
Calories 


Fresh beef 


10 
20 
16 

3 

3.5 


44.75 

6.80 

.72 

1.53 


299.20 
73.09 
50.70 
94.25 


41.68 

53.83 

8.60 

1.77 


6.67 

8.61 

1.40 

.27 


590 


Soft bread 


1,506 
340 
220 


Potatoes and onions . 
Dried fruit 


Sugar 


397 


Total 


52.5 


53.80 


517.24 


105.88 


16.95 


3,053 



Total carbon, 328.76 grams; nitrogen to carbon, 1.18. 

In the following dietary have been selected the components most 
closely approximating the character of the foods usually consumed by the 
natives of tropical countries, proportioned in the ternary food elements 
common to hot climates : 

Table IV 

TROPICAL DIETARY 



Articles 


Quantity: 
Ounces 


Fats: 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrates: 
Grams 


Protein: 
Grams 


Nitrogen: 
Grams 


Fuel 
Value : 
Calories 


Fresh fish (cod) whole 
Soft bread 


14 

20 

4 

16 
3 
3.5 


.79 

6.80 

.45 

.54 
1.53 


299.20 

88.87 

65.80 
50.70 
94.25 


31.73 
53.83 

8.75 

8.17 
1.77 


5.07 
8.61 
1.40 

1.36 
.27 


120 

1,506 

407 


Rice 


Potatoes and toma- 
toes 


297 


Dried fruit 


220 


Sugar 


341 






Total 


64.5 


10.11 


598.82 


104.25 


16.71 


2.947 







Total carbon, 327.50 grams; nitrogen to carbon, 1:19.6. 



The average of the four dietaries in the mean nutrient composition 
is outlined below, showing the composition and proportion of the ternary 
food elements, the nitrogen content and fuel value: 



680 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

AVERAGE NUTRIENT COMPOSITION 



Dietary 


Quantity: 
Ounces 


Fats: 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrates: 
Grams 


Protein: 
Grams 


Nitrogen: 
Grams 


Fuel 
Value : 
Calories 


No. I 


52.9 
32.9 
52.5 
64.5 


53.55 

114.44 

53.80 

10.11 


630.39 
556.94 
517.24 
598.82 


123.19 
105.69 
105.88 
104.25 


18.78 
16.92 
16.95 
16.71 


3,677 


No. II 


3,825 


No. Ill 


3,053 


No. IV 


2,947 






Average 


50.7 


37.97 


560.85 


109.06 


17.34 


3,375 



Total carbon, 350 grams; nitrogen to carbon, 1:20. 

It will be observed, from a careful study of Munson's tropical dieta- 
ries, that while they differ considerably, yet on the average they do not 
vary greatly from the nutritive standard of ordinary tropical dietaries, 
which is an additional reason for varying the articles of the ration from 
day to day. Even this average dietary, as compared with nutrient stand- 
ards, is still slightly deficient in fats and fuel value and a trifle low in 
protein. These defects, if they are so considered, may be corrected by 
rotating their order, so that Dietary II is used twice where Dietaries I, 
III and IV are each employed but once. The results of this change are 
as follows: 



Dietary 


Quantity: 
Ounces 


Fats: 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrates: 
Grams 


Protein: 
Grams 


Nitrogen: 
Grams 


Fuel 
Value: 
Calories 


No. I 


52.9 
32.9 
52.5 
64.5 


53.55 

114.44 

53.80 

10.11 


630.39 
556.94 
517.24 
598.92 


123.19 
105.69 
105.88 
104.25 


18.78 
16.92 
16.95 
16.71 


3,677 
3,825 
3,053 
2,947 


No. II 


No. Ill 


No. IV 




Average 


47.1 


69.43 


572.06 


108.38 


17.26 


3,465 



Total carbon, 363.33 grams; nitrogen to carbon, 1:21. 

From a study of the above tables, it is apparent that certain changes 
are advisable in the adaptation of the United States army ration to trop- 
ical conditions. The change could be admirably made by reducing the 
allowance of potatoes, fats and bread, and substituting succulent vege- 
tables and fruits. The sugars and starches might be slightly augmented, 
but their increase is small when compared with the considerable redue- 



U. S, AEMY EATIONS 



681 



tlon of nitrogenous and fatty material which is proposed. Many of the 
components of the present ration, as is seen by the following table, require 
no change in the consideration of the tropical dietary, being not only 
admirably selected but also properly proportioned. 

It is true that the needs of the economy, as shown by appetite, are 
subject to wide variation. Hence it may be accepted that slight, but care- 
fully considered changes in the constituents of the daily dietary, far from 
being detrimental, are productive of actual benefit. It is also obvious 
that the soldier will require less nutriment in garrison than is necessary 
to furnish the energy for the greater labors of campaign, and hence the 
several components of the ration should be proportioned to furnish dieta- 
ries properly varying in potential and nitrogenous value. This is accom- 
plished in the foregoing modifications of the dietaries shown in tables 
I to IV: 



COMPONENT PARTS UNITED STATES ARMY RATION 



Articles 



Quan- 
tity per 
Ration : 
Ounces 



Pro- 
tein: 
Grams 



Nitro- 
gen: 
Grams 



Fats: 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrates : 
Grams 



Fuel 
Value: 
Calories 



Fresh Beef (quarters) 

Or Fresh Mutton 

« Pork 

" Bacon 

« Salt Beef 

« Dried Fish (cod) 

" Fresh Fish, average (whole) . 
Flour 

Or Soft Bread 

" Hard Bread 

" Corn Meal 

Beans 

Or Peas 

" Rice. 

" Hominy 

Potatoes 

Or Potatoes 80 per cent and 
Onions 20 per cent 

" Potatoes 70 per cent and 
Carmed Tomatoes 30 per 

cent 

Dried Fruit (average) 

Sugar 

Or Molasses 

" Cane Sirup 



10 
10 

6 

6 
10 
10 
14 
18 
20 
18 
20 

2.4 

2.4 

4 

4 
16 

16 



16 

3 

3.5 
Igill 



41.68 
46.20 
27.54 
15.64 
40.27 
45.37 
31.73 
55.08 
53.83 
73.12 
50.40 
15.16 
16.38 
8.75 
9.20 
9.50 

8.60 



8.16 
1.77 



6.67 
7.35 
4.40 
2.49 
6.44 
7.26 
5.07 
7.90 
8.61 
11.74 
7.99 
2.42 
2.62 
1.40 
1.47 
1.52 

1.40 



1.30 
.27 



44.75 

62.90 

112.54 

105.06 

64.68 

1.13 

.79 

5.60 

6.80 

6.63 

12.40 

1.22 

.75 

.45 

.67 

.45 

.72 



.58 
1.53 



1 



380.46 

299.20 

371.81 

425.80 

40.18 

41.80 

88.87 

88.75 

81.70 

73.09 



62.59 
33.80 
94.25 
56.05 
56.25 



590 

720 

1,093 

1,042 

688 

197 

120 

1,850 

1,506 

1,926 

1,986 

240 

246 

407 

430 

380 

340 



297 
220 
397 
269 
269 



Army Rations Past and Present — In the past, when army rations were 
planned, it was with a view of keeping the soldier on the smallest amount 



682 AKMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

of food with the least expenditure of money. In fact, military author- 
ities of the last century believed that to keep a soldier up to a proper 
discipline he should be clothed roughly, given the simplest kind of over- 
crowded barracks, and fed like a hog, every modern improvement being 
considered enervating. Could any of these dead officers see the dining 
rooms of some of our modern barracks, they would surely think that the 
service was going to the dogs. It has been elsewhere remarked that when 
hardships slowly reduce vitality, the man is made less able to exist under 
more privation in the field. When there are no luxuries and everything 
has to be plain in order to be durable and serviceable, it is utter nonsense 
to talk of the enervating effects of luxuries. The present policy of improv- 
ing the soldier's table service certainly improves the ration on principles 
known to every physiologist. 

The smallest amount of food that will keep a man alive has been 
approximately known for centuries, and though modern experiments make 



Fio. 12, — Component Parts of a Day's Ration of the Unitkd States Soldier, Which 
Represents a Food or Fuel Value of 4,199 Calories. (Courtesy of tlie Ameri- 
can Museum of Natural History, N. Y.) 

our knowledge vastly more detailed, accurate and scientific, they have 
added little to the knowledge tliat a man can subsist on one pound of 
bread and 1^ pounds of meat daily for quite a long period. When we 
come to discuss the amount and kind of food necessary to keep him in 
health, we are on debatable ground. We all know men whose usual daily 
food is even more simple than the army ration, but we know, also, that 
there are times, as during occasional visits from home, when they eat 
other tilings that perhaps restore the balance. Patients have often been 
restored to health by a change of diet made necessary by a recommended 
change of scene. The soldier's diet should be such as will maintain him 
in the best physical condition regardless of the varied circumstances under 
which he may be compelled to live. There never was economy in under- 
feeding soldiers. In all the wars of the past, the number of sick and 



U. S. ARMY EATIONS 683 

those dead from disease due to improper food has been larger than the 
mortality due to the enemy's bnllets. Underfeeding or improper feeding 
undoubtedly leads to excessive use of liquor and consequent dissipation, 
which is disastrous to the health and efficiency of the troops. My observa- 
tion^ is that many soldiers of the Civil War formed habits of dissipation 
from which they suffered until death. These bad habits, I am quite sure, 
result only from poor food. 

The enormous number of cases of rheumatism in veterans occurring 
during and after the late war may not be due entirely to exposures from 
army life, as popularly supposed. These men were hardened to exposure, 
and should never have had more rheumatism than hunters, trappers and 
the aboriginal Indians. The limited and insufficient ration, and the 
absence of fresh articles of food, were, no doubt, etiological factors of 
importance. Indeed, new facts are continually being brought forward, 
showing new relations between disease and the habitual diet of a patient. 
Diet in its relation to diseased states is now an all important item of 
therapeutics. It is seriously questioned whether the bare, unadorned and 
unvaried ration, as issued, will tend towards the maintenance of perfect 
health and the greatest efficiency in the soldier. 

During our Civil War the ration was largely increased, and among 
other components thirty pounds of fresh potatoes were added to every 100 
rations "where practicable" to issue same. The reports of general officers 
during the war indicated that with this increased ration the men were 
overfed, and the law authorizing the issue of potatoes was repealed in 1864, 
and the ration reduced practically to what it was at the commencement of 
the war. In 1890, one pound of "fresh vegetables" was added to the 
ration by law. The experience of the Spanish War indicated that the 
regulation ration, made up of many substitutive equivalents, was not suit- 
able for the field, and in 1901 it was changed, a special ration being 
prescribed for the field. Unquestionably this special ration is in excess 
of requirements, and it is doubtful if sufficient transportation can be pro- 
vided to carry it in a modern war. 

The quantity of stores required for one day's subsistence of 150,000 
men in the field is: hard bread, 150,000 lbs.; bacon, Y8,750 lbs.; canned 
beef, 45,000 lbs. ; sugar, 30,000 lbs. ; desiccated vegetables (potatoes and 
onions), 11,250 lbs.; roasted and ground coffee, 12,000 lbs.; tomatoes, 
15,000 lbs.; beans, 22,500 lbs.; jam, 13,125 lbs.; vinegar, 1,500 gals.; 
salt, 6,000 lbs.; soap, 6,000 lbs.; candles, 2,250 lbs.; pepper, 375 lb§. 



1 G. A. Kreider, 



684 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

The total net weight of this amounts to 405,750 lbs., the gross weight to 
520,140.23 lbs., and it would form a pyramid 30.58 feet square at the 
base and 43.75 feet high. To transport the stores would require approx- 
imately 15 freight cars of 40,000 lbs. capacity, or 214 army wagons. 

Practically all the armies of the world, in the past, have been fed on 
the same general principles. There is little doubt that the dryness and 
sameness of the ration is a great factor in the production of the tendency 
of drunkenness proverbial among soldiers and sailors. 



RATIONS FOR BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS » 

Statistics of normal food consumption in the adult are readily avail- 
able, particularly so during the past few decades, in which a far reaching 
interest in the problem of human nutrition has engrossed the attention of 
physiologists and biological chemists. 

The rapid progress which has recently been made in infant feeding 
has thrown light upon the dietetic needs of the human individual in early 
life. In fact, pediatric literature abounds in well established facts per- 
taining to the caloric requirements of the infant ; but there is, on the con- 
trary, a singular dearth of statistical information pertaining to the actual 
food requirements and dietary habits of the young adolescent. In fact, 
both the physiology and pathology of the adolescent period offer a fertile 
field with abundant opportunity for research to extend this knowledge. 

Dubois has done some splendid work in this particular field, having 
shown by calorimetric experiment at tlie Russell Sage Institute of Pathol- 
ogy, that the actual food requirements of young boys is twenty-five per 
cent above that of the adult. The pubescent period in both sexes is 
marked by great physical growth and development. 

The alimentation, at this period, to meet the demands for wear and 
tear, growth, and development, should be very rich in easily digested 
proteins. There is no period in man's existence when there is greater 
need for suitable, wholesome, nutritious alimentation — tliat which will 
supply the necessary energy for the daily wear and tear of the body, 
together with the requisite elements for growth and development — than 
at this period. 

The adolescent youth should have a lilx^ral allowance of whole wheat 
bread, fresh eggs, wholesome meat and fresh vegetables, and fruits of all 



1 Published by the author in "Military Surgeon," May, 1917(14). 



KATIONS FOR BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS 685 

kinds, provided he digests them well, but highly spiced food should be 
restricted. 

A recent investigation by Gephart(7) affords an insight into the 
actual amount of nourishment taken by more than 300 boys in one of 
the largest private boarding schools in the United States. The total 
animal supply for such an institution, containing 355 boys, was computed 
as follows, in metric tons (2,200 lbs.) : 



Protein 



Fat 



Carbohydrate 



Food supply 
Waste 

Food fuel . . . 



20.5 
3.8 



16.7 



25.6 
5.4 



20.2 



60.5 
4.2 



56.3 



The quantity of food, computed on the basis of the individual meal 
served, appears as follows: 





Pounds 


Grams 


Calories 


Calories 
(per cent) 


Protein 

Fat 


0.1107 
0.1332 
0.3717 


50.2 

60.4 

168.8 


206 
562 
692 


141 
39 


Carbohydrates 


47 








1,460 


100 



1 Seventy per cent of this was in animal protein. 



The food was of the best quality, and included 193 separate varieties^ 
The cost per meal was 20 cents, or 13.8 cents per thousand calories. 

This is twice what the poor man in New York pays for his food. But 
these growing athletic boys were not satisfied with the conventional 3,000 
calories per day. The investigator of their dietary ascertained that beside 
the 4,350 calories which they consumed daily at the table, they bought 
650 additional calories in food at a neighboring store, the principal item 
being chocolate. 

From the tables in Volume II, Chapter XII, we see that a patient in 
hospital requires a minimum of 1,840 calories if the diet is to maintain 
the metabolic balance. If he should not be confined to bed, he will require 
a minimum of 2,168 calories ; and these estimates do not take into account 
any unusual demands made because of the increased wear and tear caused 
by the disease process. A California farmer's family requires a daily 



686 



AKMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



ration yielding 3,515 calories, while the farm laborer requires 4,100 cal- 
ories; a mechanic 3,500 calories; a ploughman, 4,000; a boy on a 
Connecticut college football team requires 5,740 calories ; on the Harvard 
boat crew, 4,620 calories; on the Yale boat crew, 4,070, while a man 
sawing wood needs 5,700 calories. The fuel to furnish the required 
energy may be derived from the consumption of proteins, fats or 
carbohydrates. 

Lusk(8) points to the fact that 5,000 calories is the amount of 
energy a real live American boy needs. A dietary furnishing only 2,800 
or 3,000 calories will not sustain the growing youth, as evidenced by the 
"ravenous" appetite of boys. Lack of appreciation of this fact and fail- 
ure of providing for it are the contributing causes of undernutrition in 
young boys. 

The facts presented above, based on a liberal series of investigations 
and observations, rather than a few sparsely scattered data, deserves the 
attention of all medical men, and, in these days of military preparedness, 
particularly of the army officer who has charge of rationing boys' military 
training camps. The author has had some experience with boys in camp 
and realizes the necessity for a well-balanced ration for these youngsters, 
particularly with a liberal protein content which is easily digested and 
readily assimilated. 

It was the privilege of the author to be ordered to Fort Terry in 
Augiist, 1910, for service with the Boys' Military Training Camp. It 
was part of his duty to inspect daily the kitchens and the cooking and 
serving of food for the boys. He soon became convinced that the officers 
who planned the rations, while they did remarkably well under the cir- 
cumstances, were lacking in experience in rationing young and growing 
boys. Herewith are produced the menus for the first week of the camp: 

BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMP, FORT TERRY, NEW YORK 
DIETARY FOR WEEK 





Serving 


Grams 


Calories 


Total 
Calories 


Breakfast, July 7, 1916: 
Com flakes 


5 tablespoonfuls 

2 

2 slices 

1 large square 

1 cup 


65 

100 

60 

15 

240 c.c. 


81 
160 
160 
120 

279 




Eees. boiled 




Bread 




Butter 




Breakfast cocoa | 

Milk and sugar | 


800 



RATIONS FOR BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS 687 

BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMP, FORT TERRY, NEW YORK 
DIETARY FOR WEEK— Continued 



Serving 



Grams 


Calories 


125 


140 


30 c.c. 


25 


92 


111 


150 


145 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


100 


258 


50 


290 


100 


120 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 



Total 
Calories 



Dinner: 

Roast beef 

Brown gravy 

Stewed peas 

Boiled new potatoes 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee 

Milk and sugar 

Supper: 

Fried bologna 

Fried potatoes 

Stewed apples 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee } 

Milk and sugar J 



Liberal helping 

2 tablespoonfuls 

3 heaping tablespoons 
3 medium-sized 

2 slices 

1 large square 

1 cup 



Liberal helping 

« u 

3 heaping tablespoons 

2 slices 

1 large square 



— 857 



1 cup 



1,204 



Total Calories for Day 2,861 



Breakfast, July 8: 
Oatmeal and milk . . . 
Fried pork sausage , . 

Boiled potatoes 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee, tea and sugar 

Dinner: 

Pork and 

Beans 

Pickles 

Catsup 

Stewed tomatoes . . . . 

Vegetable soup 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee...., 

Milk and sugar 

Supper: 

Creamed cheese 

Potato salad 

Queen olives 

Stewed peaches 

Iced tea 

Bread 

Butter 



3 heaping tablespoons 
2 links 

1 large 

2 slices 

1 large square 
1 cup 

1 slice 

4 heaping tablespoons 



2 heaping tablespoons 
6 ounces 

2 slices 

1 large square 

1 cup 

Liberal helping 

3 tablespoonfuls 
3 large 

3 tablespoonfuls 

1 glass 

2 slices 

1 large cube 



100 


201 


70 


328 


150 


145 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


30 




80 


294 














100 


16 


180 c.c. 


35 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


80 


364 


100 


123 


30 


60 


100 


228 


240 


40 


60 


160 


15 


120 



1,110 



— 781 



1,095 



Total Calories for Day. 



2,986 



688 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMP, FORT TERRY, NEW YORK 
DIETARY FOR WEEK— Continued 



Serving 



Grams 


Calories 


100 


56 


100 


160 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


100 


210 


100 


101 


100 


112 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


33 


93 


100 


112 


125 


201 


240 c.c. 


100 


60 


180 


15 


120 







Total 
Calories 



Breakfast, July 9 : 

Farina 

Fried eggs 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee ) 

Milk and sugar J 

Dinner: 

Roast pork loin 

Stewed corn 

Mashed potatoes 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee 

Milk and sugar 

Supper: 

Cold sliced ham 

Potato salad 

Jelly fruit, pure 

Iced tea and sugar 

Bread 

Butter 



Liberal helping 

Two 

2 slices 

1 large square 

1 cup 



Liberal helping 

2 heaping tablespoons 

2 heaping tablespoons 

2 slices 

1 large square 

1 cup 



1 slice (small) 

2 heaping tablespoons 



— 652 



— 859 



2 slices 

1 large square 



806 



Total Calories for Day 2,317 



Breakfast, July 10: 
Oatmeal and milk . . , 

Pork sausage 

Bread 

Butter 

Cocoa and sugar . . . . 

Dinner: 

Corned beef 

Cabbage 

Boiled potatoes 

Bread 

Butter 

Supper: 
Macaroni and cheese 
Stewed tomatoes ... 

Assorted cakes 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee 

Milk and sugar 



3 heaping tablespoons 
2 lengths 

2 slices 

1 square 
1 cup 

1 large slice 

3 heaping tablespoons 

1 medium size 

2 slices 

1 square 

2 heaping tablespoons 

2 heaping tablespoons 

3 cakes 
2 slices 

1 square 

1 cup 



100 


201 


70 


328 


60 


180 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


279 


501 
100 


145 


150 


145 


60 


160 


15 


120 


140 


477 


70 


16 


150 


300 


60 


160 


16 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 







1,088 



560 



1,229 



Total Calories for Day 2,877 



RATIONS FOR BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS 689 

BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMP, FORT TERRY, NEW YORK 
DIETARY FOR WEEK— Continued 



Serving 



Grams 


Calories 


115 


93 


100 


160 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


125 


140 


120 


30 


150 


145 


70 


16 


60 


160 


15 


120 


110 


172 


100 


357 


100 


100 


60 


160 


15 


120 


35 


113 


240 c.c. 


80 



Total 
Calories 



Breakfast, July 1 1 : 
Corn flakes and milk. 

Boiled eggs 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee 

Milk and sugar 

Dinner: 

Roast beef 

Fresh stringless beans 

Boiled potatoes 

Stewed tomatoes .... 

Bread 

Butter 

Tapioca pudding .... 

Supper: 

Beef pot roast 

Stewed sweet corn. . . 

Bread 

Butter 

Jelly 

Iced tea, sugar 



4 heaping tablespoons 

2 

2 slices 

1 square 

1 cup 

Liberal helping 

u u 

1 large 

2 heaping tablespoons 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 heaping tablespoons 

Large slice 

1 ear 

2 slices 

1 square 

1 heaping tablespoon 

1 glass 



689 



— 783 



930 



Total Calories for Day 2,402 



Breakfast, July 12: 

Sliced orange 

Milk toast 

Butter 

Cocoa 

Dinner: 

Roast mutton 

Gravy 

Stewed peas 

Mashed potatoes 

Bread 

Butter 

Supper: 

Frankfurters 

Potato salad 

Bread 

Butter 

Stewed apples 

Coffee, milk and sugar 



1 good sized 

2 slices 

2 squares 
1 cup 

1 large slice 

2 tablespoonfuls 

3 tablespoonfuls 
2 tablespoonfuls 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 large 

3 tablespoonfuls 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 tablespoonfuls 
1 cup 



250 


96 


180 


240 


30 


240 


240 c.c. 


279 


75 


234 


30 c.c. 


25 


92 


110 


100 


112 


60 


160 


15 


120 


100 


258 


100 


123 


60 


160 


15 


120 


80 


200 


240 c.c. 


156 







855 



761 



897 



Total Calories for Day 2,413 



690 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMP, FORT TERRY, NEW YORK 
DIETARY FOR WEEK— Continued 



Serving 



Grams 


Calories 


35 


140 


100 


201 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


30 




80 


294 


240 c.c. 


35 


60 


160 


15 


120 


110 


179 


240 c.c. 


157 


100 


198 


100 


123 


240 c.c. 


80 


30 


60 


60 


160 


15 


120 


85 


308 



Total 
Calories 



Breakfast, July 13: 

Fried bacon 

Oatmeal 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee, milk and sugar 

Dinner: 

Pork and 

Beans 

Vegetable soup 

Catsup 

Bread 

Butter 

Rice pudding 

Milk 

Supper: 

Pink salmon 

Potato salad 

Iced tea 

Queen olives 

Bread 

Butter 

Fig newtons 



2 slices 

3 tablespoonfuls 
2 slices 

1 square 
1 cup 



1 slice 

4 heaping tablespoons 
4 ounces 

2 slices 

1 square 

2 heaping tablespoons 
1 glass 



2 tablespoonfuls 

3 tablespoonfuls 

1 glass 
3 large 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 cakes 



777 



— 945 



989 



Total Calories for the Day 2,711 



The menus have been amplified by showing the quantity of the serv- 
ings in grams, giving the fuel or energj' value of each article of food in 
calories, and the total calories for each meal, and for each day, averaging 
in a week 2,652 calories a day. Students of trophodynamics who have 
given much thought to the dietary requirements of a young American boy 
know that the above ration is lacking in fuel value, especially so when we 
remember that the boy requires one-half as much more than a farmer at 
his occupation, which is strenuous. 

Various authorities have estimated the protein requirements as rang- 



RATIONS FOR BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS 691 

ing from GO to 150 grams. Voit's standard was 118 grams; Chittenden 
thinks 60 grams sufficient; while Atwater's standard at moderate work is 
125 grams and at severe work 150 grams. As previously stated, the grow- 
ing hoy needs a larger percentage of available protein in his dietary than 
the adult. He not only needs it for the necessary wear and tear upon 
the tissues the same as the adult, but in addition for growth and develop- 
ment. Moreover, the satisfaction of bodily needs does not depend upon 
protein, but upon useful protein. A complete protein contains about 
twenty amino-acids, and while most animal protein is complete, many 
vegetable proteins are not. 

Therefore, depending upon the variety of protein furnished, it will 
appear that it may become necessary to consume several times the amount 
of protein actually catabolized in order to obtain sufficient useful protein. 
Since we cannot consult a chemist daily with regard to the amino-acid 
components of various proteins, we will err on the side of safety if we 
ingest slightly more than is absolutely necessary. 

Careful experimental research has emphasized the fact that each indi- 
vidual needs a different amount of food, according to his structure and 
surroundings; he requires protein, carbohydrates, fats and water in addi- 
tion to mineral salts. It is absolutely essential that certain types of 
proteins, certain types of fats, and certain salts be included in the dietary. 
It is recognized at the present time that something more is essential for 
the maintenance, growth, development, and well being of man than the 
ternary food elements just mentioned. Foods contain a minute propor- 
tion of "accessory substances," generically called vitamines, and when 
these are deficient or absent from the dietary, the immature body does 
not grow, while the mature body does not maintain a normal healthy con- 
dition and manifestations of disease soon appear. 

Unless food contains sufficient. vitamine principles, no matter how well 
balanced the ration may be in the ternary food elements, nor how large 
quantities are consumed, nor how high the caloric value may be, there 
will be malnutrition. This is frequently the case among the poor, who 
consume large quantities of food which is neither proportionately bal- 
anced nor sufficiently varied to furnish the requisite vitamine con- 
tent, and for this reason diseases of malnutrition are common among 
them. 

Below we append a daily menu for one week of what we consider a 
well balanced ration for a growing boy; this ration will furnish about 
125 grams of protein daily and an average of about 4,300 calories. 



692 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



PROPERLY BALANCED DIETARIES FOR BOYS' MILITARY 
TRAINING CAMPS 

REQUISITE AMOUNTS OF THE TERNARY FOOD ELEMENTS AND FUEL 
OR ENERGY VALUE IN CALORIES 





Serving 


Grams 


Calories 


Total 
Calories 


Monday Breakfast: 
Orange 


1 medium 

3 tablespoonfuls 

2 boiled 
2 slices 
2 " 

1 square 
1 cup 

6 ounces 

1 slice 

2 heaping tablespoons 

« u 

Hhead 

1 ounce 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 heaping tablespoons 

1 cup 

1 

2 heaping tablespoons 

1 medium size 

2 sUces 

1 square 

1 glass 


250 

100 
100 

35 

60 

15 
240 c.c. 

180 c.c. 
100 

80 
100 
200 

31 

60 

15 

155 

240 c.c. 

100 

140 

200 

60 

15 

126 

240 c.c. 


96 
201 
160 
140 
160 
120 
156 

243 
343 

128 
112 
10 
136 
160 
120 
338 
279 

200 
477 

46 
160 
120 
352 

80 




Oatmeal, milk and sugar 

EcfiTS 




Fried bacon 




Bread 




Butter 




Coffee, milk and sugar 

Salt, pepper 

Dinner: 
Creamed pea soup 


1,033 


Roast beef 




Brown gravy 




Lima beans 




Mashed potatoes 




Lettuce 




American cheese 




Bread 




Butter 




Bread pudding 




Cocoa 




Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 

Supper: 

Lamb or pork chop 


1,863 


Macaroni and cheese 




Sliced tomatoes 




Bread 




Butter 




Peach pie 




Iced tea 




Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 


1,425 



Total Calories for the Day 4,321 



Tuesday Breakfasts 

Stewed prunes 

Shreaded wheat, milk and sugar, 

Scrambled eggs 

Baked hash 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee, milk and sugar 

Salt, pepper 



6 
1 

2 

2 heaping tablespoons 

2 slices 

1 square 

1 cup 



120 


312 


69 


205 


100 


160 


100 


140 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 







1,253 



RATIONS FOR BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS 693 



REQUISITE AMOUNTS OF THE TERNARY FOOD ELEMENTS AND 
FUEL OR ENERGY VALUE IN CALORIES— Continued 





Serving 


Grams 


Calories 


Total 
Calories 


Dinner: 
Tomato soup 


6 ounces 

1 slice 

3 heaping tablespoons 

1 large 

1 ounce 

2 slices 

1 square 

2 heaping tablespoons 
1 cup 

1 medium slice 

3 heaping tablespoons 
8 thin sHces 

1 ear 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 

1 glass 


180 c.c. 

100 

115 

150 

31 

60 

15 

164 

240 c.c. 

100 
145 

50 
100 

60 

15 

15 
240 c.c. 


186 
200 
152 
160 
136 
160 
120 
324 
279 

300 
350 
9 
100 
160 
120 
75 
150 




Roast lamb 




Baked beans 




Baked potatoes 




American cheese 




Bread 




Butter 

Indian meal pudding 




Cocoa, milk and sugar 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 

Supper: 

Cold roast beef 


1,817 


White potatoes 




Cucumbers 




Green corn 




Bread 




Butter 




Sugar cakes 




Lemonade 




Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 


1,264 



Total Calories for the Day 4,334 



Wednesday Breakfast: 

Cantaloup 

Oatmeal, milk and sugar. . . . 

Eggs 

Broiled ham 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee, milk and sugar 

Salt, pepper 

Dinner: 

Creamed corn soup 

Roast ham 

Boiled cabbage 

Lettuce 

Baked beans, home made. . . 

American cheese 

Creamed potatoes 

Olives 

Bread 

Butter 

Rice pudding 

Cocoa, milk and sugar 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 

144 



3^ medium 
3 tablespoonfuls 
2 soft boiled 

1 slice 

2 slices 

1 square 
1 cup 



6 ounces 
1 large slice 
3 heaping tablespoons 
J4 head 

3 heaping tablespoons 

1 ounce 

4 heaping tablespoons 
3 medium 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 heaping tablespoons 
1 cup 



465 


93 


100 


201 


100 


160 


35 


140 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


180 c.c. 


150 


100 


210 


100 


5 


200 


10 


115 


298 


31 


136 


115 


140 


30 


60 


60 


160 


15 


120 


165 


257 


240 c.c. 


279 







1.030 



1.925 



694 



AKMY AND NAVY EATIONS 



REQUISITE AMOUNTS OF THE TERNARY FOOD ELEMENTS AND 
FUEL OR ENERGY VALUE IN CALORIES— Continued 



Serving 



Grams 


Calories 


100 


185 


50 


295 


40 


180 


100 


125 


60 


160 


15 


120 


126 


352 


240 c.c. 









Total 
Calories 



Supper: 

Steak 

Potato chips 

Cream cheese 

Creamed onions 

Bread 

Butter 

Apple pie 

Water 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 



1 medium sUce 

3 heaping tablespoons 

2 cubic inches 

3 small 
2 slices 

1 square 
J^pie 
1 glass 



1,465 



Total Calories for the Day 4,320 



Thursday Breakfast: 

Stewed prunes 

Force 

Eggs 

Bacon, fried 

Bread 

Butter 

Orange marmalade 

Coffee 

Salt, pepper 

Dinner: 

Potato and meat soup 

Roast beef 

String beans 

Baked potatoes 

Sliced tomatoes 

American cheese 

Bread 

Butter 

Ice cream 

Chocolate cake 

Cocoa 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 

Supper: 

Pork chop 

Macaroni and cheese 

Sliced beets 

Green com 

Sliced cucumbers 

Bread 

Butter 

Peach pie 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 



6 medium 

5 heaping tablespoons 

2 soft boiled 

2 slices 

2 « 

1 square 

1 heaping tablespoon 

1 cup 



6 ounces 

1 slice 

4 heaping tablespoons 

1 medium size 

1 u « 

1 ounce 

2 slices 

1 square 

2 heaping tablespoons 
1 medium slice 

1 cup 



1 chop 

2 heaping tablespoons 
2 

1 ear 

8 thin slices 

2 slices 

1 sc|uare 
J^pie 



120 


312 


18 


66 


100 


160 


60 


140 


60 


160 


15 


120 


30 


115 


240 c.c. 


156 


180 


210 


100 


357 


120 


26 


130 


149 


200 


46 


31 


136 


60 


160 


15 


120 


100 


190 


70 


258 


240 


279 


70 


113 


140 


470 


70 


29 


100 


100 


50 


9 


60 


160 


15 


120 


126 


360 







— 1,219 



— 1,929 



Total Calories for the Day 4,509 



KATIONS FOR BOYS' MILITARY TRAINING CAMPS 695 

REQUISITE AMOUNTS OF THE TERNARY FOOD ELEMENTS AND 
FUEL OR ENERGY VALUE IN CALORIES— Continued 



Friday Breakfast: 

Peaches 

Oatmeal, milk and sugar. . . . 

Eggs 

Bread 

Butter 

Toasted cheese 

Coffee, milk and sugar 

Salt, pepper 

Dinner: 

Creamed pea soup 

Fresh haddock or white fish 

Lima beans 

Creamed mashed potatoes . . 

Sliced tomatoes 

American cheese 

Bread , . . . . 

Butter 

Bread pudding 

Queen olives 

Cocoa 

Cakes 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 

Supper: 

Vegetable soup 

Baked beans 

Cheese and macaroni.. . . . . . 

Sliced tomatoes 

Bread 

Butter 

Lemon pie 

Lemonade 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 



Serving 



1 average size 

3 heaping tablespoons 

2 soft boiled 
2 slices 

1 square 

2 ounces 
1 cup 



6 ounces 
Liberal helping 

3 heaping tablespoons 

4 « « 

1 medium sized 

1 ounce 

2 sUces 

1 square 

3 heaping tablespoons 
3 medium sized 

1 cup 
2 



6 ounces 

4 tablespoonfuls 

3 heaping tablespoons 

1 medium sized 

2 slices 

1 square 
Kpie 
1 glass 



Grams 


Calories 


128 


44 


100 


201 


100 


160 


60 


160 


15 


120 


50 


250 


240 c.c. 


156 


180 c.c. 


243 


100 


108 


120 


200 


115 


141 


200 


46 


31 


136 


60 


180 


15 


120 


155 


337 


30 


60 


240 c.c. 


279 


22 


94 


180 c.c. 


24 


200 


400 


140 


441 


200 


46 


60 


160 


15 


120 


110 


288 


250 c.c. 


174 







Total 
Calories 



1,091 



1,929 



Total Calories for the Day 4,345 



Saturday Breakfast 
Stewed prunes. . , 
Shredded wheat 

Eggs 

Baked hash. . . . 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee 

Salt, pepper 



6 

1 biscuit 

2 boiled 

2 tablespoonfuls 
2 slices 
1 square 
1 cup 



120 


312 


69 


205 


100 


160 


100 


140 


60 


160 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 



1.253 



696 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



REQUISITE AMOUNTS OF THE TERNARY FOOD ELEMENTS AND 
FUEL OR ENERGY VALUE IN CALOmES— Continued 



Serving 



Grams 


Calories 


180 


160 


100 


310 


180 


12 


90 


18 


145 


350 


60 


160 


200 


47 


15 


120 


165 


257 


30 


60 


240 c.c. 


279 


100 


135 


50 


295 


100 


100 


200 


.9 


31 


136 


60 


160 


15 


120 


126 


352 


250 c.c. 


150 







Total 
Calories 



Dinner: 

Creamed com suet 

Roast beef 

Cauliflower. 

String beans 

White potatoes 

Bread 

Sliced tomatoes 

Butter 

Rice pudding 

Olives 

Cocoa 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 

(Supper: 

Mutton chop 

Potato chips 

Green corn 

Sliced cucumbers 

American cheese 

Bread 

Butter 

Peach pie 

Lemonade 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 



6 ounces 

1 slice 

3 heaping tablespoons 

3 " 

3 " " 

2 slices 

1 medium sized 
1 square 

3 heaping tablespoons 
3 medium 

1 cup 



1 chop 

3 heaping tablespoons 

1 ear 

8 thin slices 

1 ounce 

2 slices 

1 square 
Hpie 
1 glass 



— 1,743 



— 1,564 



Total Calories for the Day 4,560 



Sunday Breakfast: 

Cantaloup 

Oatmeal, milk and sugar 

Eggs 

Breakfast bacon 

Bread 

Currant jelly 

Butter 

Coflfee, milk and sugar.. . 
Salt, pepper 

Dinner: 

Watermelon 

Bean soup 

Ohves 

Roast chicken 

Baked potatoes 

Radishes 

Sliced tomatoes 



J^ medium 

3 heaping tablespoons 
2 boiled 
2 slices 
2 " 

1 heaping tablespoon 
1 square 
1 cup 



1 large slice 

6 ounces 

3 medium 

Liberal helping 

1 large 

6 

1 medium sized 



465 


93 


100 


201 


100 


160 


35 


140 


60 


160 


35 


113 


15 


120 


240 c.c. 


156 


300 


40 


180 c.c. 


70 


30 


60 


100 


273 


150 


160 


50 


8 


200 


46 



1,143 



RATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 



697 



REQUISITE AMOUNTS OF THE TERNARY FOOD ELEMENTS AND 
FUEL OR ENERGY VALUE IN CAhOmES— Continued 



Serving 



Grams 


Calories 


92 


110 


50 


160 


15 


120 


155 


337 


100 


189 


240 c.c. 


279 


180 c.c. 


78 


200 


400 


100 


300 


200 


46 


100 


100 


30 


80 


15 


120 


126 


252 







Total 
Calories 



Dinner: — Continued. 

Green peas 

Bread 

Butter 

Bread pudding 

Ice Cream 

Cocoa 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 

Supper: 

Chicken soup 

Baked beans 

Baked macaroni and cheese. 

Sliced tomatoes 

Green corn 

Bread 

Butter 

Peach pie 

Salt, pepper, pickles, catsup 



3 heaping tablespoons 

2 slices 

1 square 

3 heaping tablespoons 

2 " « 
1 cup 



6 ounces 

4 heaping tablespoons 
2 " « 

1 medium sized 
1 ear 
1 slice 
1 square 
Mpie 



1,852 



1,476 



Total Calories for the Day 4,471 



RATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 



Colonel Woodruff, writing on this subject(9), worked out a table of 
comparison of eight countries. He reduced all weights to grams ; the 
amounts of the chemical constituents were calculated, and the results 
tabulated as given below. Space will not permit an accurate comparison 
of the analyses given of the rations supplied to the armies of the various 
European countries, nor the vastly different systems in vogue for supply- 
ing the food. 

In European countries, fresh meat is expensive ; therefore, from econ- 
omy, the nitrogen in the ration is supplied principally in the form of peas, 
beans, cheese, etc. In Russia, the meat ration is low, and the deficiency 
of protein is made up by free allowances of pulses and bread. The Amer- 
ican soldier, from custom, requires the stimulating effects of an abundance 
of good, wholesome, fresh meat, and the United States is the only country 
which furnishes its soldiers with the whole ration. Other countries fur- 
nish part, and the soldier purchases an additional aliment from his pay 



698 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



or from allowances for this purpose. In England, bread and meat in 
moderate quantity are supplied, but the soldier must pay for the rest and 
as much as twenty-five per cent of his pay may be thus deducted. In 
Germany, he is furnished only bread and must find the rest of his ration, 
but if the portion is supplied officially, the cost up to three and one- 
quarter cents is charged against his pay ; anything over this is paid by the 
government. 



COMPARATIVE 


TABLES OF FOREIGN 


' ARMY RATIONS 


(Woodruff) 


Nation 


Ration 


Pro- 
teins 


Fats 


Car- 
bohy- 
drates 


Cal- 
ories 


Re- 
marks 


1. England 


1 . Home 


Gm. 
93 

111 
120 
165 
133 


Gm. 
61 

80 

80 

128 

92 


Gm. 
244 

244 
324 
425 
425 


1,938 

2,175 
2,550 
3,634 
3,204 
175 






2. Foreign station or under 

canvas at home 

3. March 


(a) 




4. War: Maximum 

Minimum 

Sometimes 2 oz. of rum . 


(b) 


2. Spain 


1. Peace: Maximum 

Minimum 

2. War, on march or in the 

field: Maximum 

Minimum 

Sometimes 1.7 oz. of 
brandy 


147 
120 

131 
113 


87 
62 

94 
55 


588 
500 

522 
485 


3,729 
3,421 

3,327 
2,550 

150 


) (c) 
(d) 










3. Austria 


1 . Peace 


155 
165 


125 
130 


504 
504 


3,865 
3,952 






2. War 


(e) 








4. Italy 


1. Garrison 


111 
115 
125 


130 
133 
143 


600 
600 
600 


4,129 

4,163 

4,307 

250 






2. Camp 






3. Marching 


(0 




Usually wine added 




5. Germany 


1. Small rations and por- 
tions in garrison and 
cantonments: 

Maximum 


150 
99 

172 
138 
195 

78 


40 
40 

62 

57 

151 

75 


703 
502 

915 
644 
703 
515 


3,947 

2,827 

4,961 
3,744 
4,786 
3,413 

268 


(g) 




Minimum 




2. Large rations and por- 
tions on march or in 
maneuvers: 
Maximum 




Minimum 






3. Field: Maximum 

Minimum 

Commanding general may 
add 3 Ji oz. of whiskey 





ratio:n^s of foreign armies 



699 



COMPARATIVE TABLES OF FOREIGN ARMY RATIOI^S— Continued 



\ 



Nation 


Ration 


Pro- 
teins 


Fats 


Car- 
bohy- 
drates 


Cal- 
ories 


Re- 
marks 


6. United States . . 


1. By law: Maximum 

Minimum 

2. Usually in field (by law) : 

Maximum 


183 
105 

106 
64 

85 

155 


260 
103 

320 
240 
280 

180 


621 
500 

540 
460 
500 

597 


5,368 
3,712 

5,166 
4,722 
5,000 

4,907 


(h) 




Minimum 






Average 






3. Food actually eaten in 
cold climate, moderate 
work, including all ex- 
tras from garden and 
purchases 










7. France 


War: Maximum 

Minimum 

Add 2 1-10 oz. of brandy 


183 
146 


300 
127 


690 
520 


5,455 
4,015 

184 


1 




1 ^'^ 


8. Russia 


1. Peace: Maximum 

Minimum 

Add 3 oz. of wine 

2. War: Maximum. ...... 

Minimum 

Add 4^ oz. of wine 


233 
165 

174 
149 

. . . 


114 
65 

'62 
50 


976 
746 

805 
640 


5,884 
4,450 

223 
8.583 
3;307 

362 


1 




!(i) 

J 

, (k) 



(a) This is starvation diet, and the extra food needed for health is purchased 
and charged against the soldier (about six cents a day), increasing, perhaps doub- 
ling, the food value. 

(&) Can be greatly changed to suit climate. 

(c) Sufficient for such a mild climate and very moderate work. 

(d) Varies enormously according to class of rations issued. Very many 
extra allowances of money for food. 

(e) This is augmented by four cents a day for vegetables, etc. On the 
march a limited emergency ration is used. The war ration is so insufficient that 
commanders of armiies or smaller forces may change, supplement, or even 
double it. 

(/) Allowances' of one-fifth of a cent a day for condirnents; occasional extra 
money allowances for food. Excepting the protein, it is a very liberal diet for 
so mild a country. 

(^f) This is what the government may supply. Usually the soldier feeds 
himself and is given seven cents a day or more to reimburse him for the outlay. 
The food eaten is more than this deficient diet allows. 

(h) Maximum due to fats if all the bacon is used and no meat. The entire 
ration is supplied and intended to be eaten. 



700 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

(j) Peace ration not stated. It is purchased as needed and charged against 
the soldier. War ration is subject to great augmentation for increased work or 
cold climate. The commanding officer may augment ration on the march. 

(j) Also allowed money to buy one-half to one and one-half ounces extra 
meat, and one to one and one-half cents for vegetables, salt, butter, lard, and 
groceries. 

{k) Extra meat and spirits may be ordered by the commander-in-chief. 

All foreign armies have a so-called emergency ration, but, with the 
exception of England, it is nothing else but a field ration in a more con- 
densed and portable form, consisting of hard bread, and preserved meat 
and vegetables in cans. 

Oermany. — "In Germany, four types of rations are also provided, two 
for peace time and two for the field. The large peace ration, such as 



1^ 

RUSSIAN I' .f 

**^' JUCRICAN 

CAL. ..„- 




3340 

CAL. 



3292 3147 'AUSTRW 

CAL. CAL. 2620 




Fio. 13. — Comparative Fuel Value of the Food Rations ok the Soldikbs of the 
Leading Armies of the World. (Courtesy of the American Museum of Natural 
History, N. Y.) 

issued during maneuvers, consists of 750 grams of bread, or 500 of field 
biscuit or 400 of egg biscuit; 250 grams of fresh meat, with 60 of kidney 
fat, or 200 of smoked bacon, or 200 of canned meat ; and vegetables. 
According to Bischoff, its composition is: Protein, 89.9 grams; fats, 80.75 
carbohydrates, 514.8; with fuel value of 3,230 calorie8(13). 

"The other peace ration is somewhat smaller and, in certain garrisons, 
has to be supplemented from the private means of the soldier. The small 



RATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 701 

field ration averages 141 grams of protein, 51 of fat, and 458 of carbo- 
hydrates, with fuel value of 2,929 calories; the large field ration, 181 
grams of protein, 64 of fat and 558 of carbohydrates, with fuel value of 
3,625 calories. The commissary furnishes bread and meat, most of the 
other articles being purchased out of a daily allowance of 4 cents per 
man." 

The German soldier takes a cup of black coffee, or coffee with milk, 
and bread in the morning, dinner at noon, and a light supper in the even- 
ing. During maneuvers, or in the field, he may also receive one quart of 
beer, one pint of wine, or about three ounces of spirits (14). 

Russia. — "The Russian soldier (4) in the field receives 2^ ounces of 
black bread (from unbolted rye flour), 14^ ounces of fresh meat or 11 
of preserved or salt meat, 9 ounces of green vegetables or the equivalent 
in compressed vegetables, 1 to 2 ounces of suet or butter for cooking, 
together with 4 to 5 ounces of grits, tea, sugar and condiments. Accord- 
ing to Bischoff, its composition is: Protein, 120.7 grams; fat, 39.2 grams; 
carbohydrates, 628 grams; with fuel value of 3,147 calories." 

Most of the articles of the ration (bread excepted) are boiled together 
in a large wheeled kettle and served as soup. 

Japan. — "The Japanese ration, in the field, consists of: 

Rice, uncooked 30 ounces 

Or steamed and dried 25 " 

" fresh bread 20 " 

" hard bread 13 " 

Meat, canned 10 " 

Or fresh (with bones) 13 " 

(which may be increased to 20 if procurable) 

" salt, dry or smoked meat 8 ounces 

« fish 2 

Vegetables, dry 8 " 

Or green 32 « 

Pickles, sauces and condiments 

Tea and sugar 

Sake (beer made from rice) 

"The Japanese soldier does not take readily to bread, either fresh or 
hard. During the Russo-Japanese War, the meat component was scant 
and issued irregularly ; rice, fish and vegetables formed the staple ration. 

''The Japanese medical regulations provide that the nutritive value of 
the ration shall never fall below 2,580 calories." 



702 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 



France. — "In France, four types of rations are provided, two for peace 
(garrison ration and maneuver ration), and two for war (ordinary and 
large field rations). 

"The components of the garrison and field rations are as follows: 



Articles 



Garrison 
ration 



Ordinary 
field ration 



Large 
field ration 



Soft bread (brown) 
Soup bread (white) 

Fresh beef 

Rice 

Or pulses 

Lard 

Or beef suet 

Salt 

Sugar 

Coffee 



Kg. Grams 
0.750 
0.250 
0.320 
0.030 
0.060 
0.030 
0.040 
0.015 
0.021 
0.016 



Kg. Grams 
0.750 

6.400 
0.060 
0.060 
0.030 
0.040 
0.020 
0.021 
0.016 



Kg. Grams 
0.750 

6.500 
0.100 
0.100 
0.030 
0.040 
0.020 
0.031 
0.024 



"The soft bread {'pain de munition') is a leaven-made bread from 
flour bolted to 20 per cent; it may be replaced by pain hiscuite, or by 
hard bread and partly by Italian pastes and flours or cereals; the beef,' 
by any kind of fresh or preserved meat, fish, cheese or milk ; the rice and 
pulses, by any available dry or green vegetables. 

"In bivouac, or whenever ordered by the commanding general in the 
field, a liquid ration is issued of either wine (one-half pint), beer (one 
pint), or brandy (two ounces)." 

The garrison ration contains, according to Rouget and Dopter: 

Proteins 125.06 grams, yielding 513 calories 

Fats 60.46 " " .562 « 

Carbohydrates 673.52 « « 2,351 " 

Total 3,426 " 



The maneuver ration contains less protein and fat, having a fuel value 
of 3,164 calories. 

The ordinary field ration contains: 

Proteins 123.60 grams, yielding 507 calories 

Fats 64.74 « « 602 « 

Carbohydrates 476.99 " « 1,956 « 

Total 3,065 " 



RATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 703 

Soup bread may be added if available (which is seldom the case), 
increasing the total calories to 3,687. The fuel value of the large field 
ration (without soup bread) is 3,383 calories. 

The French soldier takes two meals a day, breakfast at 10 a.m. and 
dinner at 5 p.m.^ besides black coffee at reveille. 

In time of peace, the commissary department supplies only hard 
bread, sugar and coffee, as well as wine and brandy when authorized. 
The rest of the ration is purchased by the company messes (ordinaires) 
from special money allowances (about 10 cents per man), under the 
supervision of a council appointed by the commanding officer (commis- 
sion des ordinaires). Money allowances remaining unexpended, that is, 
resulting from savings on the ration, as well as proceeds from fines, sale 
of wastes, etc., are used in purchasing such additional articles of food as 
are deemed desirable. 

In war, the men carry two days' rations in the haversack ; two more 
are carried in the regimental trains, and four on the administrative trains. 

The following three or four pages are taken largely from a report on 
the "Medico-Military Aspects of the European War," by Surgeon A. M. 
Fauntleroy(ll), U. S. Navy (Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Navy De- 
partment, Washington, D. C.).^ Surgeon Fauntleroy had an excellent 
opportunity to study conditions in the French lines, many courtesies being 
extended him in France by Dr. Joseph Blake, formerly of the New York 
Presbyterian Hospital, and Dr. Alexis Carrell, formerly of the 
Rockefeller Institute, New York City. 

Among other conditions, he investigated the methods of cooking in the 
trenches. He says: "Each company of about 100 men has its field 
kitchen, and each man carries with him a tin cup, plate, knife, fork and 
spoon. For some months after the outbreak of the war the French armies 
were not supplied with regular field kitchens, but were dependent upon 
improvised means of cooking food." At the present time, however, a 
field kitchen of the same type as the English kitchen is in general use. 
These field kitchens are augmented by improvised ovens, situated as close 
to the entrance of the hoyau as is compatible with military conditions. 
From this situation food is served hot to the men in the trenches, and the 
efficiency of the commissary department is a large factor in promoting 
general contentment throughout the French army. 

The French ration is an exceedingly liberal one in every way, and no 
form of wholesome and suitable food is denied the French soldier. Men 
of all ranks and grades are apparently supremely content with this branch 

1 Used by permission of the Secretary of the Navy. 



704 



ARMY AND NAVY EATIONS 



of the service. Hot coffee and bread are served in the early morning, and 
hot coffee is also prepared in large quantities, and served throughout the 
day. This latter is encouraged by the officers, as it not only guarantees 
the sterility of the water thus boiled, but reduces the necessity of drinking 
unboiled water. 

The principal meal, dejeuner, is served in the middle of the day and 
every precaution is taken to make it a complete and satisfactory repast. 
In the late afternoon, the evening meal is prepared, and in general, while 
a little less substantial than the midday meal, it is still quite sufficient. 
As is well known, the Frenchman has a light breakfast — coffee and rolls. 

There are three rations authorized in the French army: The reserve 
ration, the strong ration, and the normal ration. 

COMPOSITION OF THE RATION OF THE FRENCH ARMY 



Articles 



Bread : 

Soft 

Field 

Hard '. 

Meat: 

Fresh 

Canned (seasoned) 

Dried vegetables or rice 

Small store: 

Salt 

Sugar 

Coffee, roasted, in tablets 

Coffee, roasted, in tablets or loose . . . 

Coffee, green 

Lard (when fresh meat is issued) 

Potage sal6 (when canned meat is issued) 

Brandy 

To each man in bivouac or when spe- 
cially ordered: 

Wine 

Beer 

Brandy 

Tobacco: 

"Caporal," for officers 

"Cantine," for enlisted men 



Reserve 
ration 



0.66 lbs.i 



.66 lbs. 



.176 lbs. 
.0792 « 



.11 qts. 
.055 " 



.044 lbs. 
.033 " 



Strong 
ration 



1.65 
1.54 
1.32 

1.10 
.66 
.22 

.044 
.0704 



lbs. 



.0528 lbs 


.0627 


u 


.066 


« 


.11 


« 



.2641 qts. 
.5282 " 
.055 " 



.033 
.033 



lbs. 



Normal 
ration 



1.65 
1.54 
1.32 

.88 
.44 
.132 

.044 
.0462 



lbs. 



.0352 lbs 


.0418 


« 


.066 


« 


.11 


u 



.2641 qts. 
.5282 « 
.055 « 



.033 
.033 



lbs. 



1 Six pieces, or crackers. 

2 Twelve pieces, or crackers. 



The greatest possible latitude is allowed in making substitutes with 
supplies procured by exploiting tlie local resources. This authority is 



KATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 



705 



vested in all division generals and subordinate commanders. The sub- 
stitutive articles and quantities of each authorized to be issued in lieu of 
a ration component are given below: 



AUTHORIZED SUBSTITUTIVE EQUIVALENTS 



Strong 


Normal 


ration 


ration 


1.10 


lbs. 


0.88 lbs. 


1.10 


" 


.88 « 


.825 


(( 


.66 " 


.66 


u 


.55 " 


.66 


u 


.55 " 


.55 


u 


.44 « 


.55 


u 


.44 " 


.44 


u 


.33 « 


.33 


u 


.22 « 


.275 


u 


.22 « 


2.6412 qts. 


2.201 qts 


.22 


lbs. 


.132 lbs. 


1.65 


u 


.99 « 


2.2 


u 


1.32 " 


1.32 


u 


.792 « 


.264 


u 


.154 " 


.22 


u 


.132 " 


.22 


u 


.132 « 


.22 


u 


.132 " 


.154 


u 


.088 « 


.242 


u 


.132 « 



Substitute for one ration of fresh meat (beef) 

Veal, mutton, pork, rabbit, horse, or fresh fish 

Meat pudding, eggs, soft cheese 

Codfish, salted 

Bacon 

Smoked meat, herring, salted, or salted sardines . . . . 

Cheese (Gruyere, Holland, Chester, Roquefort) . . . . 

Sausage, small and large, smoked, herring, smoked . . 

Sardines, in oil 

Codfish, dried, meat powder 

Cow's milk 

Substitute for one ration of dried vegetables or rice . . . . 

Potatoes 

Turnips, carrots, or cabbage 

Sauerkraut 

Canned vegetables 

Wheat flour 

Italian pastes (noodles, vermicelli, etc.) 

Corn meal 

Cheese, Gruyere, or Holland 

Cheese, soft 



The list gives the substitutes that were in force prior to the commence- 
ment of the present war, and it has been greatly augmented since. There 
is practically no limit to the articles that may be substituted by higher 
commanders as long as common sense is displayed both in the dietetic 
properties of the food and the cost to the Government. This matter is 
regulated in orders issued by army and corps commanders. In these 
orders the prices of different foodstuffs are fixed, and the farmer or mer- 
chant in the theater of operations is given the chance to sell these supplies 
at or below these figures ; otherwise the supplies are formally requisitioned 
and paid for at the rate stated in the order. 

The "extraordinary supplements authorized" can only be authorized 
by army and corps commanders or by commanders of independent forces. 
In this case the supplies must be furnished from the chain of supplies 
moving from the base depot forward, and these are the only commanders 



706 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

who are in a position to make the arrangements to meet this situation. 
The extraordinary supplements are as follows: 

EXTRAORDINARY SUPPLEMENTS AUTHORIZED 

1. One ration of wine, beer, or brandy, 

2. Additional : One-third ration of bread. One-fifth ration of meat. 

3. Increase of one-half, one-third, one-fourth of the complete "strong" 

or "normal" ration. 

In the first instance, it must be remembered that the substitutes 
authorized are obtained locally, and therefore no additional drain is made 
on the regular chain of supplies coming forward. Under "the automatic 
food supply" system in the French army, one day's complete food supply 
for the entire army goes forward daily from the regulating station to the 
railhead, and from that point forward until it arrives at the ration wagon 
of the organization. If the organization has procured a substitute for 
one of the component articles locally, it follows that it will not need cer- 
tain articles carried by the train and about to be issued. It, therefore, 
does not draw these supplies. The latter train has then a surplus, and' 
when it is subsequently refilled at the railhead, it leaves undrawn at that 
point a corresponding quantity. Similarly, the railroad train has a sur- 
plus, which it carries back to the regulating station, where the general 
readjustment is made. 

In addition to the ration, commanders of organizations and detach- 
ments are given a daily allowance of twenty centimes (four cents) per 
day per man, with which they are authorized to purchase locally additional 
food supplies. This fund corresponds to the United States army company 
fund. 

In times of peace, in garrison, the French ration is largely commutecj 
at prices fixed by corps commanders and based on the local market prices. 
In time of war this system is not used except in the case of very small 
detachments (principally cavalry), chauffeurs, and other individuals who 
cannot be conveniently rationed by organizations. In the latter case the 
commutation rate is fixed in army orders. In the positions occupied by 
the French army during 1917 it has been comparatively easy to supply 
the men and animals, the utmost advantage having been taken of the elas- 
ticity allowed" for substitutions and additions to the ration. 

The entire French army in the zone of the armies had a most trying 
time during the winter, due to cold and the water in the trenches. 
Roughly speaking, from one-third to one-half of the time they have been 
in the first-line trenches, the remainder of the time they have spent 



EATIONS OF FOEEIGN ARMIES 707 

either in supporting trenches or in towns more or less subjected to Ger- 
man artillery fire. In the first-line trenches the quarters or dugout 
shelters of the men are heated with coke or charcoal fires, which give out 
no smoke. Food is cooked in large kettles and field kitchens behind the 
trenches and is subsequently taken out to the front-line trenches and dis- 
tributed. The men eat a hot, cooked meal at night and save the rest of 
the food for the next day's lunch, when it is heated before eating over the 
fires in the dugout shelters. Men and officers say they have all fared better 
under these trying conditions than they usually fare in barracks in peace 
time. The result of this good feeding is apparent in the physical condi- 
tion of the men and in the astonishingly low sick reports. The Govern- 
ment and the army commanders have realized the importance of keeping 
the men fit during all this period of more or less enforced stationary siege 
fighting. They have thoroughly realized that it is very poor economy to 
restrict the food when there is no necessity for it, as there may be later 
on if a forward movement is undertaken in a country with all the rail- 
roads destroyed. 

The reserve ration is the ration that is carried on the man or horse. 
Within the last few years an effort has been made to reduce the load car- 
ried by the man, and a portion of this reserve ration is now carried in the 
combat train. The reserve ration carried by divisional cavalry, and that 
carried by all elements of a cavalry division, is one day's hard bread, 
three days' coffee and sugar, and one day's" canned meat and potage sale. 
The total gross weight of these components of the reserve ration is 2.53 
pounds. In addition, one day's brandy per man is carried. The reserve 
ration carried by all other troops and elements of the army is a straight 
two days' ration, except that only one day's brandy is included. One-half 
of this reserve ration is carried on the man, the other half plus the brandy 
is carried on the baggage wagon attached to the combat train. 

The reserve ration is, in general, only consumed when so ordered by 
corps or division commanders, when contact cannot be made with the 
ration wagons. In rare cases, where there are no other means of feeding 
the men, organization commanders may, on their own responsibility, 
authorize its consumption. In this latter case a full written explanation 
of the reason must be submitted. 

The normal ration is that prescribed for troops in time of peace in 
barracks, or in time of war when comfortably quartered, out of the pres- 
ence of the enemy. 

The strong ration is that usually supplied daily in the field to French 
troops, and it is on the weight of this ration that transportation allowances 



708 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

are based. It is realized by the French that troops in the field are sub- 
jected to much more severe physical effort than troops in garrison. To 
provide this additional energy, additional food is given in the shape of a 
strong or increased ration. As already explained, the strong ration is very 
elastic and supple. Almost any condition can be met without the fear 
of violating regulations. 

In principle the French soldier (not including the cavalryman) 
receives each night from the ration wagon the supplies that he is to con- 
sume at his two meals the following day. It will be remembered that, 
with the exception of coffee early in the morning, Frenchmen only eat 
two meals per day, one before noon and one in the late afternoon. These 
supplies he carries in a light canvas bag {musette), swung with a loop 
on his right shoulder. At the same lime he receives one day's ration of 
fresh meat, which is issued him from the voiture de viande (meat wagon), 
which is attached to the combat train. One-half of this is eaten the night 
on which it is issued and one-half, after cooking, is put in the musette to 
be eaten cold the next noon. We thus find that every morning, upon leav- 
ing camp or bivouac, the French soldier has with him (independently of 
the reserve ration) one day's supply of field bread, one-half day's supply 
of fresh meat (cooked), one day's supply of dried vegetables to be cooked 
for the evening meal, one day's supply of salt, and one day's coffee and 
sugar, with the exception that some of this coffee and sugar is used in the 
morning. As before explained, these supplies may be varied by substitu- 
tions and additional purchases made from the four cents allowed to each 
man over and above the ration. 

In the cavalry every effort is made to reduce the weight carried by 
the horse, and, in consequence, rations are issued theoretically, every 
evening before supper. The evening meal and a cooked cold luncheon 
for the next day are prepared for the same evening. We therefore find 
that in the morning, ujwn leaving camp, the cavalry has, in addition to 
its reserve ration, only the food necessary for one meal. Under this sys- 
tem it may be readily seen that the evening meal of the regular rations 
(the strong ration) is dependent upon the ration wagons making contact 
with the troops in time for the preparation of the meal. It will, of course, 
be remembered that so long as the cavalry is inactive it will probably be 
kept near a place where rations can be readily supplied, and if active, it 
will be in a better position than other troops to secure its supply locally. 
This system of issuing rations is called by the French "au cheval." Pre- 
viously it had been used with all troops, and it is still used by such of the 



KATIONS OF FOKEIGK ARMIES 703 

French organizations as are equipped with rolling kitchens. However, 
with infantry troops not equipped with rolling kitchens, it has been found 
not to be practicable, owing to the delay of the ration wagons in making 
contact with the troops. 

TRAINS.— Each organization, including division and corps headquar- 
ters, has a combat and a regimental train (field train). To the corps are 
also attached a corps supply train and a corps meat train (auto trucks). 
In addition, there is a corps cattle park. 

The combat train is divided into two echelons, called the first and sec- 
ond, respectively. For purposes of clearness, the combat train of an 
infantry regiment, as laid down in the French regulations, will be 
explained. The same principles apply to the other combat trains, though 
they differ considerably in details in the different armies. The strength 
of an infantry regiment is 3,000 men, and this strength is maintained by 
reserves sent forward to replace all losses. 

The first echelon remains with or in the immediate rear of the organ- 
ization to which it belongs when on the march or during combat. It 
includes one-horse sanitary carts carrying equipment for first-aid stations, 
two-horse carts for ammunition for companies, four-horse wagons or 
caissons for machine-gun ammunition, and two-horse carts carrying 
entrenching and other tools. 

The second echelon, while on the march out of the presence of the 
enemy, usually accompanies the first echelon. When contact with the 
enemy is expected, it is detached and grouped with other second echelon 
combat trains, either in brigade or division groups, depending upon the 
orders issued. During this period of grouping, its movements are con- 
trolled by the headquarters ordering the grouping. The grouped second 
echelons are usually held well in the rear under cover and "out of the 
road." This echelon includes two-horse wagons (on these wagons are 
also carried a portion of the reserve rations previously referred to), a 
two-horse forage wagon, and three two-horse meat wagons (one per bat- 
talion). In addition, the regulations provide that the two-horse rolling 
kitchen (when organizations are equipped with the same) will form part 
of the second echelon of the combat train. 

The regimental train (train regimentaire) corresponds exactly to the 
ration section of the field train of the United States army. All field 
units, including the different headquarters and trains, with the exception 
of the corps supply train, have a regimental train. The regimental trains 

145 



710 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

of all units, except that of the cavalry division, carry the following sup- 
plies (on the basis of the strong ration) : 

Bread (generally field bread) 2 days 

Salt 2 « 

Lard 2 " 

Rice or dried vegetables (1 day of each) 2 " 

Canned meat with potage sale 1 day 

Coffee (1 day's supply is on the basis of the reserve 

ration) 2 days 

Sugar (1 day's supply is on the basis of the reserve 

ration) 2 " 

Brandy 1 day 

Oats 2 days 

The regimental trains of the cavalry divisions carry the following 
supplies (on the basis of the strong ration) : 

Field bread 1 day 

Salt 1 « 

Canned meat with potage soli 1 " 

Coffee (on the basis of the reserve ration) 1 " 

Sugar (on the basis of the reserve ration) 1 " 

Brandy 1 " 

Oats 1 " 

The foregoing figures are based on the load at the time the troops start 
out, which, of course, clianges as soon as issues begin. It is not safe, 
therefore, to count on having on hand more than one day's supply. 

The regimental trains of all units are usually kept grouped at all 
times when the troops are on field service. This grouping is almost 
invariably by divisions, the group being under the orders of a single offi- 
cer, who moves the grouped trains in accordance with orders received from 
division headquarters. When the troops have halted, orders are issued 
from division headquarters to send forward one day's supply of food, and 
men from the different organizations go to the grouped trains and conduct 
the loaded vehicles to the troops. The issues are made, and the empty 
vehicles are at once sent back and grouped again. If any supplies are 
obtainable locally, and their substitution is desired by the troops in place 
of what is carried in the wagons, the substitution is made, and the corre- 
sponding ration articles remain unissued in the wagon. 

From time to time the division headquarters is notified of the point 
selected as the "distributing point," and it in turn notifies the officer in 
command of the grouped train, who sends the empty wagons to that point 
at the hour fixed for reloading. As soon as they are reloaded they rejoin 
the grouped train. 



KATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 711 

MEAT SUPPLY. — The system of fresh-meat supply in the French army 
has been materially changed in recent years. Formerly each division had 
a cattle park, where the cattle were butchered and from which the dressed 
meat was sent forward in wagons, their loads being transferred to the 
meat wagons of the second echelon of the combat train. This was found 
to be very cumbersome. To-day the division cattle park has been sup- 
pressed and replaced by the corps cattle park, where the slaughtering is 
now done. The fresh meat is loaded in the army corps meat train, which 
is pushed forward close to the point where the grouped second echelon 
of the combat train is halted, and the organization meat wagons are filled 
at these places. 

The meat supply of the French soldier has always been a most difficult 
question, because of the national prejudice in France against refrigerated 
meat. This prejudice is somewhat on the wane to-day, owing to a lack of 
cattle in France, and a great quantity of Argentine beef is now being 
received. There is some trouble in handling this beef, due to the fact that 
refrigerator railroad cars are hardly known in France, and to the further 
fact that there are not many cold-storage plants for the reception of the 
meat. Of course, most of the big cities have these plants, but none are 
found in the small towns as in America. To-day an effort is being made 
to use the refrigerated meat in the zone of the interior and as far as pos- 
sible to reserve the live cattle for use in the zone of the armies. The 
Frenchman does not like our cured bacon nor does he like canned meats. 
His wants, therefore, so far as meat is concerned, are much more difficult 
to satisfy than is the case with our troops. 

With a view to the simplification of the entire fresh-meat supply, a 
number of different methods have been and are being tried in France. 
One method by which the fresh meat was thoroughly salted (viande demi- 
sale) was tried out, but has been practically abandoned to-day. This sys- 
tem had the advantage that the meat could be slaughtered and treated 
well to the rear, even back of the zone of the interior, and could be sent 
forward in the regular trains through the regulating station. If success- 
ful, it would have done away with the corps cattle park and the corps 
meat train. The disadvantage was due to the fact that, while the center 
of the meat so treated was perfectly good, the exterior surface became 
discolored and somewhat decayed and smelly. 

To-day a new scheme is being tried by which the fresh meat is first 
cooked and boned, then wrapped in cheesecloth, and the moisture pressed 
out. If this is successful, it will greatly simplify the problem of meat 
supply, particularly if the war lasts long, and if refrigerated beef has to 



712 AEMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

be resorted to entirely. If, after cooking and treatment in the manner 
indicated, meat will keep for five or six days, the plan will be successful. 

The autotruck made it possible for the French to do away with the 
division cattle park and to do their slaughtering at the corps cattle park, 
well in the rear. All the autobuses in Paris were requisitioned for deliv- 
ery purposes, and these are to-day distributed between the different army 
corps, forming the corps meat trains. These autobuses have somewhat the 
appearance of one of our street cars in America, having a platform on the 
rear and windows on either side. The glass in the windows has been 
removed and replaced by fly screens with cotton bunting behind to keep 
out the dust. The meat is suspended from hooks placed on the rods run- 
ning along the ceiling of the ear, which previously furnished the supports 
for the hand straps. Each autobus will carry approximately 4,000 pounds 
of beef. Approximately fifteen of these autobuses are assigned to each 
corps. The maximum distance to the front which they are able to supply 
is seventy-five kilometers. It, therefore, follows that the corps cattle 
park can be no further than this to the rear. 

Corps cattle parks are usually situated near the railroad, where cattle 
on the hoof are delivered by train. Their equipment is the simplest pos- 
sible, notwithstanding the fact that the daily requirements of a corps 
necessitate the slaughter of from 100 to 120 head of cattle a day. Usually 
barns and stables are used for this purpose. The equipment in general 
consists of large wooden tripods or derricks, about eight feet high. After 
the animal has been hit on the head, he is pulled up by the hind legs, the 
throat arteries are cut, and the meat is dressed. The hides are all most 
carefully saved and shipped back to the rear. The meat when cut up is 
at once loaded into the autobus, where it cools. A veterinary surgeon is 
always present during the slaughtering to pass on the quality of the meat. 

Slaughtering is usually done in the late afternoon, the autobuses or 
corps meat train being sent forward the following morning to make con- 
tact with the organization meat wagons (attached to the second echelon 
of the combat train). Tlie meat is then transferred, and the autobuses 
return to receive their new leads during the slaughtering in the afternoon. 
Effort is always made to counteract, so far as possible, the slowness in 
movement of beef on the hoof (about four kilometers an hour). As has 
been shown, the park with the meat train can be operated seventy-five 
kilometers behind the troops. This is about three days' march under the 
most favorable conditions for the troops. When a rapid advance is under- 
taken a portion of the personnel of the cattle park is sent forward to a 
point farther advanced, and cattle are shipped in and held in anticipation 



RATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 713 

of the arrival of the remainder of the personnel. When all the cattle have 
been slaughtered at the first place, the tools and equipment are loaded in 
an autotruck and sent forward to the new position. Thus, within a few 
hours the park can be advanced, if necessary, three days' march. The 
corps meat train is the only corps train to which autotrucks are regularly 
assigned. The autotruck in this case is a "transportation unit" pure and 
simple and does not provide the means for transporting a "rolling 
reserve." The rolling reserve of meat is carried in the corps supply train. 
The corps supply train carries two days' strong ration and two days' 
oats. The load consists of the following supplies : 

Salt 2 days 

Dried vegetables 1 day 

Rice 1 " 

Sugar (1 day's strong and 1 day's reserve ration) . . 2 days 

Coffee (1 day's strong and 1 day's reserve ration) . . 2 " 

FIGURES UPON WHICH ALLOWANCES OF TRANSPORTATION FOR 

RATIONS ARE BASED 

The net weight of the reserve ration, not including brandy, is 1.6852 ponnds. 
The net weight of the strong ration, with field bread, canned meat, potage sale, 

and not including spirits, is 2.6972 pounds. 
The net weight of the strong ration without meat and spirits, and including lard, 

is 1.9932 pounds. 

Great Britain. — "The ration of the British soldier, in garrison, consists 
of 16 ounces of bread, 12 ounces 'of meat, and such additional articles 
(vegetables, groceries) as are purchased out of a daily allowance of seven 
cents. During maneuvers the meat is increased to 16 ounces. 

"In the field, his ration varies according to climate and the character 
of his work ; it generally consists of 16 ounces of salted or preserved meat, 
or 16 to 20 ounces of fresh meat; 20 ounces of fresh bread or 16 ounces 
of hard bread or flour; 1 ounce of compressed vegetables, or 8 ounces of 
.potatoes (or other fresh vegetables), or 2 ounces of rice (or split peas), 
or 4 ounces of onions ; cofi^ee, tea or chocolate, sugar and the usual condi- 
ments. Two ounces of spirits and some tobacco may also be allowed" (4). 

An emergency ration is provided in the British army, for use only 
when no other food is procurable and when authorized by the command- 
ing officer. It is contained in a flat can and consists of chocolate, sugar 
and protein in the form of "plasmon," weighing G^ ounces net. Accord- 
ing to Langworthy, its proximate principles average: protein 59 grams, 
fat 50 grams, and carbohydrates 65, grams, with fuel value of 973 cal- 



714 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

ories. This ration, like the United States emergency ration, is relatively 
too rich in protein and deficient in carbohydrates. 

According to the "Times History of the War," the ration of the Eng- 
lish soldier at the beginning of the present war was: 

1}4 pounds biscuit 

1 pound fresh meat or 1 pound tinned meat 

4 ounces jam 

3 ounces sugar 

3 ounces desiccated vegetables 

14 ounce tea 

14 ounce coffee 

J^ ounce pepper 

14 ounce salt 

At the outbreak of the war, the ration was increased by an addition of 
good bacon, 4 ounces, and cheese, 3 ounces ; six months later, the meat' 
ration was increased to 1| pounds of fresh meat and a more liberal allow- 
ance of tea was permitted ; occasionally, | of a tin of condensed milk is 
given in place of the extra ^ pound of meat. 

Systems of Supply — In France, the bread and a trifle of sugar and 
coffee are supplied in kind, the rest being supplied by the war depart- 
ment, and gardens are an essential part of the scheme. In Italy the food 
is supplied on the same basis as the clothing allowance in the United 
States army — that is, so much money per day is allotted to each soldier, 
and if he is supplied in kind, so much money is deducted from his 
account. In Austria only, bread is supplied in times of peace, and a daily 
allowance of money given to purchase the rest, somewhat as in France. 
In Russia, bread and meat are supplied in kind, but a money allowance 
is given for other things and for extra meat. In Spain, bread only is 
supplied, as in Germany, and the rest is charged up against the soldier's 
pay, as in England. These systems are all very well in countries where 
the soldiers live in thickly settled districts, where they have opportunities 
to buy such things as they want, but would be totally unsuitable for the 
frontier in our country ; hence, the United States is the only nation com- 
pelled to supply the soldier's whole food. 

At the commencement of the United States Civil War the supplies 
to be carried by the troops were prescribed in General Orders, which pro- 
vided that in ordinary marches, where the men could receive daily issues 
from the trains, they should carry only two days' rations ; but in the 
immediate vicinity of the enemy, and where the exigencies of the service 
rendered it necessary to move without ba^age or trains, they were 
required to carry from eight to twelve days' rations. In the Spanish- 



KATIOXS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 



715 



American War, the General Orders did not prescribe the number of days' 
rations to be carried by the men. 

In the German army, foot troops, horse and field artillery, and train, 
carry three days' "iron" rations, the cavalry one day's. The German 
"iron ration" consists of hard bread, 9 ounces ; preserved meat or bacon, 
1 ounces ; vegetables, 3^ ounces ; coffee, ^ ounce. Total weight, including 
packing, 1 pound, 10 ounces; three days' rations, 4 pounds, 14 ounces. 

In the French army the cavalry carry one day's bread, preserved meat 
and groceries, and all other troops two days'. This ration consists of 
bread, about 33 ounces ; preserved meat, about 9 ounces ; groceries, about 
5^ ounces. Total weight, 47^ ounces, or about 3 pounds. 

In the Russian army the infantry carry 2^ days' hard bread in their 
haversack ; the cavalry and horse artillery, 1^ days' ; field artillery and 
sappers, 3 days'. The hard bread ration consists of 1 pound 13 ounces ; 
2^ days', therefore, would be about 4^ pounds. 

The United States Field Service Regulations, provide for the min- 
imum to be carried on the man or horse — 1 emergency ration and 1 field 
ration. Weight: 1 field ration, 2.92 pounds net, 3.64 pounds gross; 
1 emergency ration, 1 pound net, 1.25 pounds gross; total, 4.89 pounds 
gross, or nearly 5 pounds. 

COMPARATIVE RATIONS OF THE ARMIES OF THE WORLD 

Below are given the rations of the soldiers of the leading armies of 
the world, both in times of peace and war. According to Colonel Wood- 
ruff, when these are compared with the ration of the soldier in the United 
States army, it will be seen that our men are better fed than men in any 
other army of the world: 

COMPARATIVE RATIONS OF THE LEADING ARMIES OF THE WORLD 

DAILY RATION OF THE AUSTRIAN SOLDIER 



Peace 


Ounces 


War 


Ounces 


Meat 


65i 

30M 

17^ 

6^ 

6^ 

20 

3M 

5J^ 


Meat 


9M 


Bread 


Or salt meat or bacon. . . 
Biscuit 


6 


Or biscuit 


3K 


Flour 


Flour. . . . '. 


26 M 


Or groats or barley 


Vegetables 


5 


Or potatoes 


Potatoes 


9 


Rice 


Peas or beans 


5M 


Sauerkraut 


Or potatoes 




Butter or fat 


Butter or fat 


If 




Sugar 


M 




Coffee 


H 









716 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

COMPARATIVE RATIONS OF THE LEADING ARMIES OF THE 

WORLD— Continued 

DAILY RATION OF THE ENGLISH SOLDIER 



Peace 



Meat, fish, bacon, or liver. 

Bread 

Vegetables 

Potatoes 

Milk 

Sugar 

Butter 

Peas or beans, in lieu of 

vegetables 

Lime-juice 

Salt, j^; tea, H or coffee. 



Ounces 



12 
16 

4 
12 

5 

2 

1 

1 

'A 



War 



Meat, fresh 

Or preserved 

Bread 

Or biscuits 

Vegetables, fresh 

Or compressed 

Peas or beans in lieu of 

vegetables 

Sugar 

Cheese 

Tea, H; coffee or cocoa. . . 
Pickles, occasionally 
Rum, when necessary. . . . . 



Ounces 



16 or 20 
20 
20 
16 
16 
1 

3 
3 

2 to 3 

2H 



DAILY RATION OF THE FRENCH SOLDIER 



Peace 



Meat 

Bread 

Or biscuits 

Vegetables, fresh 

Butter 

Other articles are paid for 
by men out of their allow- 
ance. Laveran estimates that 
the ordinary peace ration 
contains 124 grams protein 
and 764 grams carbohydrate. 



Ounces 



lOJ^ 
26 >i 
21 
3H 

2H 



War 



Meat 

Bread 

Or biscuits 

Vegetables, compressed 

Butter 

Rice 

Sugar 

Soup, condensed 



Ounces 



14H 

2m 

21 
1 
1 

2H 
H 
H 



DAILY RATION OF THE GERMAN SOLDIER 



Peace 



Meat 

Or bacon.. . 
Bread 

Or potatoes 

Oatmeal 

Rice 

Coffee 

Butter 



Garrison 
Ounces 



5H 

26^ 
53 

3H 



Field 
Ounces 



17^ 

6 

35 H 
71 

^'A 

'in 



War 



Meat 

Or sausage 

Bread 

Or potatoes 

Vegetables 

Rice or ground barley 

Coffee 

Brandy 

Or wine 

Or beer 



Ounces 



Wa 
2%A 
52 

6 

4H 

1 

3>4 

35 



1 In lieu of potatoes, 12 ounces of peas or beans. 



RATIONS OF FOREIGN ARMIES 717 

COMPARATIVE RATIONS OF THE LEADING ARMIES OF THE 

WORLD — Continued 

ITALIAN RATION 



Peace 



Meat 

Bread, flour, or biscuit . . . 

Bacon 

Rice 

Sugar 

Coffee 

Winei 



Ounces 



7 to 11 
32 K 



War 



RATION OF THE JAPANESE SOLDIER 



Peace 



Rice 

Money allowed for other 
necessaries. 



Ounces 



36 



War 



Meat (periodically) 

Fresh fruit 

Rice (daily) 

Vegetables. . , 

Bean sauce 

Pickles or fruit. . . . 

Sugar 

Tea 

Japanese cake 

Sake (spirit) 

Cigarettes 



Ounces 



16 

20 

36 

4 

2 

2 

8 

6J^ 
20 



DAILY RATION OF THE RUSSIAN SOLDIER 



Peace 



Meat 

Flour or biscuit 

Groats 

Or peas or beans. . . . 

Or potatoes 

Or turnips or carrots 
Or cabbage 



Ounces 



7J€ 
26 

4 

141^ 
21 H 
35 
50 



War 



Meat 

Or ham 

Flour 

Sugar 

Tea 

Butter 

Peas or beans 

Groats 

Variable as in peace 
ration. 



Ounces 



7M 
3^ 
29 

5 



1 See footnote, page 683. We do not think it wise to allow whiskey, beer, wine or 
brandy as a component of the soldier's ration. Certainly no man having indulged in 
alcoholic drinks should be permitted to engage in the work of aviation, nor allowed to 
participate in the handling of large and expensive guns. There has been a great 
revolution of sentiment regarding the use of alcohol since the betrinaing of the Great 
European War. 



718 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

DIET IN PRISON CAMPS 

Dr. B. W. Caldwell, of the American Red Cross/ after an investiga- 
tion of European prison camps, in writing on the subject in The Military 
Surgeon{12) , says that the only emergency not carefully thought out and 
for which every detail of preparation was not arranged by the General 
Staffs of the belligerent armies was the treatment of the prisoner of war. 
After describing the conditions of the prisoners and the prison camps and 
the precautions taken to put both in a sanitary condition, he describes the 
kitchens attached to the camps as well constructed and well equipped and 
in excellent condition of cleanliness. He observed that the food furnished 
the prisoners was limited in variety and insufficient in quantity and 
largely vegetable in character, consisting of potatoes, carrots, cabbage, 
turnips, beans, peas, lentils and other dehydrated vegetables; of meals 
made from corn, soy beans and peas, of dried fruits and salt fish and small 
rations of meat. Each prisoner was allowed coffee, and 300 grams of 
bread per day. The unprepared food was found to be of very good qual- 
ity, containing nothing deleterious. Necessity has always been the mother 
of invention, and as the prisoners were without knives and forks, it 
became necessary to prepare the ration in such a manner that it could be 
served in large bowls and eaten with spoons. The Germans solved this 
problem by cooking the different articles of the ration together, in large 
cylindrical cookers, heated with coal, the cooking process being continued 
until the whole mass was soft and in a condition to be eaten with a spoon. 
It was well seasoned and fairly palatable, but did not afford the variety 
in preparation or ingredients, nor was the quantity sufficient, for a well- 
balanced diet, as will be seen by examining the following actual dietaries 
at different prison camps: 

TRANSLATION FROM ORIGINAL MENU OF THE PRISONERS' 
KITCHEN AT CAMP MUNSTER 
(November IBM to 28th, 1915) 
Monday 
Breakfast: Com mush, 100 grams; evaporated milk, 10 grams; sugar, 10 grams; 

bread, 100 grams. 
Dinner: Beans, 200 grams; potatoes, 600 grams; lard, 10 grams; bread, 100 
grams. 

1 Dr. Caldwell, at the request of the Ambassador of the United States at Berlin, 
with the official approval of the German Government, made a thorough inspection 
of the Prison Camps at MUnster, Wittenberg, Altdam and Gfiterslohe during the 
month of November, 1915. He was at that time Director of the Red Cross Sanitary 
Mission to these Prison Camps. The facts here so clearly and dispassionately set 
forth are thus at once authentic and official. 



DIET IN PRISO]!T CAMPS 719 

Supper: Potatoes, 400 grams; Swedish turnips, 400 grams; lard, 5 grams; 

bread, 100 grams. 
Tuesday 
Breakfast: Coffee as on Sunday; bread, 100 grams. 
Dinner: Carrots, 500 grams; pptatoes, 600 grams; beef, 120 grams; bread, 

100 grams. 
Supper: Potatoes, 400 grams; chestnuts, 150 grams; sugar, 10 grams; bread, 

100 grams. 
Wednesday 
Breakfast: Barley, 50 grams; meal of rolled potatoes, 50 grams; lard, 5 grams; 

bread, 100 grams. 
Dinner: Swedish turnips, 500 grams; potatoes, 500 grams; corned beef, 100 

grams; lard, 5 grams; bread, 100 grams. 
Supper: Potatoes, 400 grams; sausage, 100 grams; sauerkraut, 300 grams; 

bread, 100 grams. 
Thursday 
Breakfast: Coffee as on Sunday; bread, 100 grams. 
Dinner: Codfish, 200 grams; cabbage, 400 grams; potatoes, 600 grams; potato 

meal, 10 grams; oleomargarine, 10 grams; onions, 10 grams; spices 

as needed; bread, 100 grams. 
Supper: Potatoes, 400 grams; carrots, 500 grams; bread, 100 grams. 
Friday 
Breakfast: Rolled potato meal, 100 grams; evaporated milk, 10 grams; bread, 

100 grams. 
Dinner: Flour, soy bean, 120 grams; potatoes, 600 grams; onions, 10 grams; 

lard, 10 grams; bread, 100 grams. 
Supper: Potato salad and potatoes, 500 grams; oil of soy bean, 500 grams; 

vinegar, according to need; one herring; bread, 100 grams. 
Saturday 
Breakfast: Coffee as on Sunday; bread, 100 grams. 
Dinner: Dried peas, 150 grams; potatoes, 600 grams; bacon, 30 grams; bread, 

100 grams. 
Supper: Potatoes, 400 grams; dried vegetable, 30 grams; lard, 5 grams; bread, 

100 grams. 
Sunday 
Breakfast: Coffee, 5 grams; coffee substitute (Zusatz), 3 grams; sugar, 30 grams; 

bread, 100 grams. 
Dinner: Potatoes, 600 grams; cabbage, 500 grams; Cassel spare ribs, 100 

grams; lard, 5 grams; bread, 100 grams. 
Supper: Potatoes, 400 grams; cheese, 80 grams; bread, 100 grams. 

MENU OF THE WAR PRISONERS' KITCHEN, OFFICERS' SECTION 

AT GUTERSLOHE 
{November 22d to 28th, 1915) 
Monday 
Breakfast: Coffee, 20 grams; coffee substitute (Zusatz), 10 grams; milk, 60 
grams; bread, 100 grams; marmalade, 50 grams. 



720 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

Dinner: Barley (soup), 150 grams; potatoes, 750 grams; beef (boiled), 125 
grams; bread, 100 grams; lard and flour each, 20 grams. 

Supper: Oat-flake porridge with prunes, 500 grams; tea, 5 grams; sugar, 25 
grams; bread, 100 grams. 

Tuesday 
Breakfast: Same as Monday. 
Dinner: Carrots, 150 grams; potatoes, 750 grams; pork (roast), 110 grams; 

bread, 100 grams; lard and flour each, 20 grams. 
Supper: Liver sausage, 90 grams; tea, 5 grams; sugar, 25 grams; bread, 100 

grams. 
Wednesday 
Breakfast: Same as Monday. 
Dinner: Swedish turnips, 150 grams; potatoes, 750 grams; veal (roast), 125 

grams; bread, 100 grams; lard and flour each, 20 grams. 
Supper: Porridge with milk, 500 grams; tea, 5 grams; sugar, 25 grams; bread, 

100 grams. 
Thursday 
Breakfast: Same as Monday. 
Dinner: Cabbage, 150 grams; potatoes, 750 grams; mutton, 125 grams; bread, 

100 grams; lard and flour each, 20 grams. 
Supper: Salt herring with boiled potatoes in jackets, 500 grams; tea, 5 grams; 

sugar, 25 grams; bread, 100 grams. 
Friday 
Breakfast: Same as Monday. 
Dinner: Meat, 125 grams; potatoes, 750 grams; mustard gravy, 100 grams; 

bread, 100 grams; mustard, 10 grams; lard and flour each, 20 grams. 
Supper: Liver sausage, 90 grams; tea, 5 grams; sugar, 25 grams; bread, 100 

grams. 
Saturday 
Breakfast: Same as Monday. 
Dinner: Red cabbage, 150 grams; potatoes, 750 grams; bologna sausage, 125 

grams; bread, 100 grams; lard and flour each, 20 grams. 
Supper: Pea soup with boiled pig's ears, 500 grams; tea, 5 grams; sugar, 25 

grams; bread, 100 grams. 
Sunday 
Breakfast: Same as Monday. 
Dinner: Roast of veal, 125 grams; potatoes, 750 grams; compote, 100 grams; 

bread, 100 grams; lard and flour each, 20 grams. 
Supper: Holland cheese, 90 grams; tea, 5 grams; sugar, 25 grams; bread, 100 

grams. 

Alonzo E. Taylor, M.D., writing in the Journal of the American Med- 
ical Association, Nov. 10, 1917, on the "Diet of Prisoners of War in Ger- 
many," says that early in the war prisoners subsisted on rations furnished 
on contracts. The contract system was later abandoned and the German 
government regimen was issued in the spring of 1915. The ration pro- 



DIET IN PEISON CAMPS 



721 



vided German prisoners contained protein, 85 grams ; fats, 40 grams ; and 
carbohydrates, 475 grams ; with a total fuel value of 2,700 calories. In 
June, 1916, the ration was as follows: protein, 89 grams; fat, 30 grams; 
and carbohydrates, 510 grams ; with a total fuel value of 2,700 calories. 

WEEKLY DIET SHEET TYPICAL OF PERIOD PRIOR TO STRINGENCY 

IN FOODSTUFFS! 



Bread 2,100 

Flour 270 

Meat 300 

Fish 300 

Herring 150 

Potatoes 9,000 

Vegetables 1,800 

Skim milk 400 

Sausage 200 

Cheese 100 

Nutrient yeast 40 



Gm. Ounces. Gm. Ounces. 

75 Sugar 200 7.1 

9.6 Legumes 150 5.3 

10.7 Fat 70 2.5 

10.7 Maise grease 180 6.4 

5.3 Pearl barley 100 3.5 

321 Dried fruit 50 1.8 

65 Marmalade 100 3.5 

14 Tea 16 0.5 

7 Spices, herbs 30 11.1 

3.5 Cocoa 40 1.4 

1.4 



1 Per diem: protein, 89 gm.; fat, 30 gm.; carbohydrate, 510 gm.; calories, 2,740. 

WEEKLY DIET SHEET TYPICAL OF PERIOD OF STRINGENCY IN 

FOODSTUFFS ^ 



Gm. Ounces. 



Gm. Ounces. 



Bread 2,100 

Flour 50 

Meat 200 

Sausage 200 

Fish 325 

Potatoes 3,500 

Vegetables 1,650 

Skim milk 500 

Cheese 100 

Nutrient yeast 20 

Sugar 130 

Mustard 



75 Legumes 



150 



1.7 

7 

7 

11 
125 

59 

17 
3.5 
0.7 
4.8 



Fat 65 

Maise grease 100 

Pearl barley 60 

Fruit 300 

Marmalade 100 



Tea 

Coffee 

Chicory 

Cocoa 

Spices and herbs. . 
50 1.7 



4 

6 

15 

40 

20 



5.3 
2.3 . 
3.5 
2.1 
10.7 
3.5 
0.15 
0.21 
0.5 
1.5 
0.7 



2 Per diem: protein, 57 gm.; fat, 21 gm.; carbohydrate, 310 gm.; calories, 1,720. 



The above two diet sheets, says Taylor, serve to illustrate the sub- 
sistence in the German prisoner of war camps. The first is typical of the 
beginning of food stringency, and the second serves as a contrast of the 



722 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

present deplorable shortage of foodstuffs. Taylor points out from these 
figures the necessity of our government taking cognizance of the food 
conditions in Germany, and suggests that steps be taken to organize ways 
and means to feed Americans who may be taken prisoners of war by 
Germany. 



CONCLUSIONS REGARDING THE COMPOSITION AND FOOD 
VALUE OF THE MILITARY RATION (HARVARD) (4) 

"We have previously stated, on good grounds, that an adult man weigh- 
ing 154 pounds is in better physical condition, stronger, and capable of 
greater endurance, with a ration yielding 2,800 calories, especially if the 
proteins are kept within a maximum of 60 grams, than with one greatly 
exceeding this value. But we have seen that in our service, as in all other 
leading countries, the soldier's ration exceeds these limits in the number 
of calories, which range from 3,000 to 5,000, but especially in the amount 
of proteins (Japanese excepted), which hardly ever fall below 100 and 
often range up to 160 or more grams. There is no indication, therefore, 
that in this country or in Europe the soldier is underfed, provided he 
actually receives the ration called for by military regulations. 

"Much has been written on the necessity of feeding the soldier well and 
much attention and study have been devoted to the composition of ade- 
quate rations. That he should be sufficiently and properly fed, needs no 
discussion, but the belief generally entertained that the more he eats the 
greater is his energy and efticiency is groundless and mischievous. The 
danger of overeating has been too much overlooked, or else esteemed a 
negligible factor. It is the opinion of many careful observers that the 
American soldier is much more likely to be overfed than underfed, and 
that his health and efficiency stand in greater peril from excess than from 
lack of food. As a general rule, the soldier does not know how to regu- 
late his appetite, nor does he appreciate the necessity of doing so. He eats 
what is allowed him hurriedly and often without proper mastication, and 
between meals frequently patronizes the lunch counter of the post 
exchange or the outside shop where pies and other tempting pastry are 
displayed. This is characteristic of the soldiers of all countries, particu- 
larly of those who receive the most liberal rations. Thus, the remarks of 
Rouget and Dopter, in their 'Hygiene Militaire,' although aimed at their 
countrymen, are of very general application. 'Many Frenchmen, espe- 
cially in the country, have the pernicious habit not to cease eating until 



CONCLUSIONS EEGARDING MILITARY RATIONS 723 

they experience a sensation of fullness in the stomach. Little do they care 
about the nutritive value of the food ingested. Their conviction is that, 
so long as this abdominal repletion is not distinctly felt, they have not 
been sufficiently fed. This is particularly observed each year at the time 
of the incorporation of the new contingent. The amount of bread in the 
ration, although considerable, is not enough to satiate these young sol- 
diers ; they buy more from outside bakeries.' 

"It should be remembered that within an hour or two after taking a 
full meal, at least a pint of gastric juice is poured into the stomach and 
added to its contents, so that what was at first mere repletion may become 
uncomfortable distention. Soldiers should be advised that a sensation of 
fullness or distention following a meal is a clear admonition that they 
have eaten too much, and that if such excess is kept up, as a habit, they 
will surely suffer in health and efficiency. Such advice may do good, but 
more practical results will follow if the food, especially the meat, as 
served in the mess-room, is simply sufficient and not wastefully abun- 
dant. 

"Experience shows that it is while actively engaged in the field, when 
the rations are reduced and the cooking simple, that the men enjoy the 
best health and show most endurance, provided, of course, there is no 
actual lack of food. Thus, during the active part of the Santiago cam- 
paign in 1898, there was but little sickness in spite of the trying climate 
and of short commissary supplies, but as soon as the work was over and 
rations became abundant, the morbidity began to rise and before long 
exceeded seventy-five per cent of the command. It is hard to resist the 
conviction that injudicious feeding was responsible for many of the cases 
of 'undetermined fever,' and prepared the way for much of the malaria 
which prevailed in our camps near Santiago, as well as of the typhoid 
fever which decimated our troops in the United States. It is noteworthy 
that the Spanish soldiers in Santiago, although reduced to very scant 
rations of poor quality, had a much smaller proportion of sick than the 
American troops. 

"During the Boer War in South Africa, the English troops besieged 
in Ladysmith were fed for several months, according to Dunlop, on a 
ration of 73 grams of protein, 69 of fat, and 141 of carbohydrates, with 
fuel value of only 1,52Y calories, but which, as remarked by Munson, fur- 
nished energy enough for a stout and successful resistance. The Russo- 
Japanese War has taught us an important lesson in dietetics. Both 
Russians and Japanese had meat rations much smaller than those pro- 
vided for American, English and French soldiers ; the meat ration of th(,' 



724 ARMY AND NAVY EATIONS 

Japanese, in particular, was decidedly meager and often lacking altogether. 
Yet we know that no armies, during an arduous war of twenty months, 
ever suffered so little from infectious diseases and had fewer men inca- 
pacitated from sickness. To what extent this immunity is due to the 
food can only be conjectured. It certainly cannot be attributed exclu- 
sively to the sanitary measures taken, for it was the opinion of the Amer- 
ican and English attaches with both armies, that had their own troops 
been placed under similar conditions, but fed with their own. rations, 
typhoid fever would undoubtedly have prevailed among them in an epi- 
demic form.^ It is true that the Japanese suffered much from beriberi 
during this war, a disease known to be due to an excess of rice combined 
with a deficiency of protein, but there is no doubt that it would have been 
entirely prevented had the Japanese soldier received one-half of the pro- 
tein component called for by the ration of the United States soldier. 

"Surgeon Tsui of the Chinese army (13) states that, in Northern 
China, the country laborers from whom the army is mostly recruited, men 
of fine physique and moat remarkable power of endurance, live almost 
exclusively on a vegetable diet. The Chinese soldier receives meat only 
twice a month. The rates of sickness and death in the Chinese army, 
according to this trustworthy authority, are much lower than in our 
army. 

"Formerly, the price of savings made from the ration and paid by the 
Quartermaster Corps to the organization commander, could be expended 
by the latter in any way deemed most advantageous to the organization, 
that is, not only in the purcliase of other kinds of food, but of any arti- 
cles intended for the comfort and enjoyment of the men, such as games, 
sporting goods, etc. Under existing regulations, money received as bal- 
ance of the 'ration and savings account' can be spent only for food. It 
follows that the company commander has no longer any discretion in regu- 
lating the amount of food consumed by his men, but is expected to expend 
the entire money value of the ration in the purchase of foodstuffs." 
Colonel Harvard (4) cannot commend this change. He believes that the 
former system, whereby the company commander was allowed discretion 
in regulating the quantity as well as the quality of the food, was better 
calculated to safeguard the health and comfort of his men. 

NAVY RATIONS 
During recent years much attention has been given to the selection and 
preparation of the ration for the United States sailor. In former days, 
1 1 question this statement. — G. N. K. 



NAVY RATIONS 725 

it was a notorious fact that the character of the food on board ship was 
monotonous, uninviting and led to nutritional disorders. In the present 
navy ration, according to the Revised Statutes, ^ the following allowances 
of provision constitute the daily ration: 

1 pound hard bread (biscuits); or IJi pounds fresh bread; or IJ^ pounds flour 

1 pound tinned meat; or 1^ poiuids of salt meat; or 134 pounds smoked meat; 

ox \% pounds fresh meat; or 1^ pounds fresh fish; or 8 eggs; or 1% pounds 
poultry 
% pound tinned vegetables; or 1^ pounds fresh vegetables; or 3 gills beans or 
peas; or 3^ pound rice or other cereal 

2 ounces coffee; or 2 ounces cocoa; or H ounce tea 

1 ounce evaporated milk; or Vi« quart fresh milk 

Vi6 pound dried fruit; or ^ pound tinned fruit; or Vie pound fresh fruit (one 
ration of fruit is allowed with each ration of beans, peas, rice and other starch 
foods and canned vegetables issued) 

2 ounces butter 
4 ounces sugar 

7 ounces lard for every 100 pounds flour used as bread 

The weekly ration consists in addition of the following: 

yi pound cheese ]4 pound salt 

yi " macaroni J^ pint sirup 

V32 " pepper V128 pound spices 

Ji " pickles ]4 pound tomatoes (canned) 

V32 " mustard 3^ pint vinegar or oil 

Yeast, baking powder and flavoring extracts as required 

In addition to the foregoing, the following issues are allowed to men 
of the engineer and dynamo force standing watch under steam between 
the hours of 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. 

4 ounces hard bread or its equivalent 

1 ounce coffee 

4 ounces tinned meat or its equivalent 

2 " sugar 

The following substitution for the components of the ration may be 
made when deemed necessary by the senior officer present in command. 
Articles of combined ration components will be regarded as ration equiv- 
alents and issued in accordance with the followins; table ^ : 



1 Naval Act of June 29, 1906, and March 2, 1907. 

2 Memo. No. 74, Navy Dept., Sept. 1, 1915. For the guidance of officers, beginning 
with the second quarter of the year 1916. 

146 



726 



ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 
NAVY RATIONS AND COMPONENTS 



Components 



Bread: 

Biscuit 

Crackers: 

Soda 

Oyster 

Bread, fresh: 

Wheat 

Graham 

Rolls 

Flour: 

Wheat 

Graham 

Buckwheat 

Com meal 

Meat: 
Preserved: 
Turned: 

Bacon 

Corned beef 

Chipped beef .... 

Codfish and haddock 

Salmon 

Sardines 

Sausage (Vienna). 

Luncheon meat 

Salt: 
Corned beef, fresh. . 

Salt pork 

Salt mackerel 

Smoked: 
Bacon, sugar cured and 

smoked 

Ham, sugar cured and 

smoked 

Shoulder, sugar cured 

smoked 

Sausage, frankfurters. 

Sausage, bologna 

Tongues, beef 

Fresh: 

Beef 

Mutton 

Pork 

Veal 

Sausage, pork 

Liver, beef 



Ration 
allowance 



1 pound 

1 « 
1 " 

1 M pounds 

IV% " 
IH " 
IVs " 



1 pound 
1 « 
1 " 
1 « 
1 « 
1 " 
1 « 
1 « 

1^ pounds 



Wa 

\y* 

IVa 
Wa 

Wa 
Wa 

IH 
Wa 
IH 



Components 



Meat: {Continued) 
Fresh: {Continued) 

Hamburger steak. 

Chicken 

Fowl 

Turkey 

Fish, fresh 



V^etables: 
Dried: 
Beans: 

Navy 

Lima 

Kidney 

Peas, spUt 

Canned: 
Beans: 

Lima 

String 

Com 

Peas 

Tomatoes 

Pumpkin 

Beets 

Fresh: 

Turnips 

Carrots 

Tomatoes 

Beets 

Onions, green 

Squash 

Pumpkin 

String beans 

Peas, green, in pod. 
Corn, green, sugar, on 

cob, in husk 

Spinach 

Cauliflower 

Lettuce 

Cucumbers 

Celery 

Radishes 

Rhubarb 

Parsnips 



Ration 
allowance 



1 5i pounds 
IK " 
IH " 
IH " 
IH " 
8 (number) 



3 gills 



H pound 
H " 



H 
Va 
Va 
Va 
Va 



1 % pounds 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 

Wa " 



NAVY KATIONS 
NAVY RATIONS AND COMPONENTS— Con^tnwed 



727 



Components 



Vegetables: {Continued) 
Fresh : ( C ontinued) 

Eggplant 

Peppers, green and red 

Asparagus 

Parsley 

Potatoes: 

Irish 

Sweet 

Onions 

Cabbage 

Cereals and starch foods : 

Rice 

Cornstarch 

Barley 

Hominy 

Oats, rolled 

Tapioca 

Fruit: 
Dried: 

Apples 

Citron 

Currants 

Cocoanut, shredded . . 

Peaches 

Raisins 

Canned : 

Apples 

Apricots 

Peaches 

Pears 

Pineapple 

Prunes 

Preserved: 

Jams 

Apple butter 

Mincemeat 

Fresh: 

Peaches 

Pears 

Cherries 

Grapes 

Berries, all kinds 

Cranberries 

Watermelon 

Cantaloupe 



Ration 
allowance 



1 M pounds 

m " 



y2 

'A 
'A 
A 
A 



% 



% 
% 
% 
% 
%. 
% 
% 



pound 



Components 



Fruit: {Continued) 
Fresh: {Continued) 

Plums 

Grapefruit 

Pineapple 

Apples 

Bananas 

Lemons 

Oranges 

Beverages: 

Coffee 

Cocoa 

Tea 

Milk: 

Evaporated 

Fresh 

Extracts, flavoring: 

Vanilla 

Lemon 

Vinegar and sauces: 

Vinegar 

Oil, salad 

Sauce, Worcestershire 

Catsup 

Butter 

Cheese 

Baking powder 

Baking soda 

Hops 

Lard 

Oil, cottonseed 



Macaroni and vermicelli . . 

Mustard 

Pepper, black and cayenne 
Pickles and sauerkraut. . . . 

Salt 

Syrup 

Spices, assorted 

Sugar 

Yeast 

Tomatoes 



Ration 
allowance 



% pound 

% « 

% « 
% « 

% " 

1/ « 



Xe quart 
As needed 



^4 pt. weekly 



A lb. daily 
As needed 



7 lbs. to every 
100 lbs. flour 
as bread 

As lard sub- 
stitute in the 
proportion 
of 1 gal. to 
10 pounds 
lard 

A lb. weekly 

V32 " 
V32 " 
H " " 

H " " 
H pt. " 

/l28 lb. « 

H " daily 
As needed 
}4 lb. weekly 



728 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

The extra allowance of 

2 ounces sugar 

4 ounces hard bread or its equivalent 

1 ounce coffee or cocoa 

4 ounces preserved meat or its equivalent • 

is allowed to enlisted men of the engineer and dynamo force who stand 
night watches between eight o'clock p.m. and 8 o'clock a.m., under steam. 

According to provisions promulgated by the Secretary of the Navy^ 
any article comprised in the navy ration may be issued in excess of the 
authorized quantity provided there is an under-issue of the same value 
in some other article or articles of food. 

Gatewood, in discussing navy rations, says : 

Contentment in naval service in relation to food and water makes for good 
discipline, and work without contentment is impossible. Contentment facilitates 
voluntary enlistment, and a service that supplied protein food in amounts exactly 
to meet the requirements of the body as evolved from tlie mathematics of nitro- 
genous equilibrium would not secure contentment. That is the basis of the daily 
amounts of food in the navy ration, the amounts depending essentially not upon 
what it is thought men ought to eat, but upon what experience has demonstrated 
they desire to eat. 

The navy ration has been particularly studied and carefully arranged 
from the point of view of efficient service. The variety and components 
permit of sufficient elasticity to prevent monotony in the dietary. The 
selection of food is of great moment and with the aid of preserved and 
canned meats, fruits and vegetables, quite a variety in the dietary can 
be furnished aboard ship. The ration aboard ship will vary according to 
climatic conditions. The dietary in tropical countries will be different 
from that in cooler regions. Appetite and digestion are influenced more 
or less by changing temperatures and humidity. It is also quite probable 
that the efferent nerve supply on the surface of the body reacts to external 
climatic influences and exerts a retarding effect upon metabolism. Pre- 
cise information as to the energy or nutritive value of the navy ration is 
not readily obtainable without carefully taking into account whether the 
energy or fuel value should be reckoned on the ration as issued, or as con- 
sumed. Surgeon Gatewood, U. S. N., worked out a table showing the 
comparative average energy values of the ration of the United States navy 
as contrasted with those of the navies of other nations. He summed up 
the subject in the following table, showing the various percentage 



1 Naval Act, March 2d, 1907. 



NAVY RATIONS 



729 



elements of the dietary ingested and digested and the actual energy or 
caloric values of each : 

COMPARATIVE NUTRITIVE ENERGY OF AMERICAN AND FOREIGN 

NAVY RATIONS 



Naval Dietaries 



Eaten 



Pro- 
tein 



Fat 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



Digestible 



Pro- 
tein 



Fat 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



Utiliz 

able 

energy 



Nutri- 
tive 
ratio 



1. U. S. Navy (sea ration) . 

2. U. S. Navy (fresh pro- 

visions) 

3. U. S. Navy (usual) 

4. U. S. Navy (engineer 

force) 

5. Japanese Navy (average) 

6. French Navy (average). 

7. French Navy (engineer 

force) 

8. British Navy (average). 

9. British Navy (engineer 

force) 



Gm. 
138 

145 
142 

182 

126 
170 

184 
127 

175 



Gm. 
269 

135 
192 

218 

56 
34 

35 
110 

149 



Gm. 
556 

444 

492 

624 

607 
524 

608 
601 

728 



Gm. 
127 

134 
131 

168 

116 
156 

169 
117 

161 



Gm. 
256 

129 
183 

207 

53 
32 

33 
104 

141 



Gm. 
540 

431 

478 

606 

589 
508 

590 
583 

706 



Gals. 
5,180 

3,563 
4,256 

5,174 

3,430 
3,078 

3,407 
3,891 

4,938 



1 

8.7 

5.3 
6.7 

6.3 

6.1 
3.7 

3.9 

7.2 

6.6 



The estimates in Gatewood's table concerning the percentage elements 
of the ration of the French navy must be accepted with a little reserva- 
tion, since it is not clear whether all the necessary factors have been 
included or whether correct allowance has been made for waste. It may 
be that the ration is given as issued and not as consumed. The percentage 
elements recorded for the Japanese navy seem to be rather low, but it 
must be taken into consideration that the weight of the average enlisted 
man in the Japanese navy is only about 129 pounds. It will be seen from 
the examination of this table that the average sailor in the United States 
navy consumes daily, 142 grams of protein, 193 grams of fat, and 492 
grams of carbohydrates, yielding a fuel value of 4,256 calories. The 
engineer force receives an additional issue of 42 grams of protein, 24 
grams of fat, and 122 grams of carbohydrates. This allowance gives the 
engineer force more protein than is given in Atwater's Standards for a 
man at hard muscular labor. 

In arranging the navy ration, several points of view must be taken 



730 AEMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

into consideration. First, the ration must be what the sailor should have, 
and second, it ought to be what he wants. The availability of the ration, 
its keeping qualities and its storage are also matters to be carefully con- 
sidered. Again, the all important question of securing an aliment which 
will yield the proper amount of nutriment within a fixed daily cost per 
capita must be taken into consideration. These and many other pertinent 
questions have been very carefully and satisfactorily considered in an 
excellent article by Surgeon J. D. Gatewood of the United States navy in 
his work on "Naval Hygiene." 

The United States navy, by authority of its secretary, has issued a 
"General Mess Manual and Cook Book"^ for use on board vessels of the 
United States navy, which gives much interesting data concerning the 
organization and administration and general management of the Commis- 
sary of the United States navy. 

PART I. THE GENERAL MESS 

Organization and AdministratioiL — 1. The general messing system is, by 
regulations, obligatory on board of all vessels of the Navy. The mess must 
include all enlisted men of the Navy and Marine Corps, except chief petty offi- 
cers and officers' servants, and its members are to be divided into messes of about 
twenty men each, and as nearly as possible messed by divisions instead of by 
rations, as has heretofore been the custom. By this method the petty officers will 
be scattered among the messes and there can be no complaint on account of dis- 
crimination — all faring alike. 

2. A messman is to be detailed for each mess, and he is to receive the food 
from the cooks at the galley, serve it at the mess table, and is responsible for the 
care and the cleanliness of the mess gear and mess tables. 

3. The chief commissary steward, or commissary steward, the cooks and 
bakers, together with tlie storekeeper (when a store is establislied on the ship), 
form the enlisted force of the commissary department. They are the assistants 
of the pay officer and belong to the pay division. 

4. The responsibility of the commissary and his assistants ceases with the 
delivery of the food to the messman at the galley. 

5. The established rate of pay being sufficient to secure the services of com- 
petent and experienced men, the payment of any gratuity, either by the com- 
missary or by the men themselves, to any person employed in the service of the 
general mess is forbidden by the regulations. 

6. The commanding officer should see that proper facilities, including such 
boats and men as may be necessary, are afforded the commissary for getting mess 
stores on board and stowing them. 



1 Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C, 1904. 



NAVY RATIONS 731 

7. It should be thoroughly understood that the general mess is not an organ- 
ization managed by its members, as was the "berth-deck mess." 

8. In addition to the pay provided for enlisted men, the Government under- 
takes to subsist them, and this it does at whatever expense may be necessary. 
The fixed value of commutation for one ration is, by law, 30 cents, but the com- 
mutation of rations is a privilege, not a right, and the idea prevalent among 
enlisted men that they are entitled to receive just 30 cents' worth of food each 
day or 30 cents in money, is erroneous. While the regulations limit commuta- 
tion to one-fourth the total number of rations, they do not require any commuta- 
tion at all, this being purely a question of desirability and business expediency 
to be decided by the pay officer with the approval of the commanding officer. 

9. Under the general messing system the Government subsists the men 
entirely, and they have no more voice in the management of the commissary 
department than in any other department of the ship. The Government, through 
its authorized officer, provides them with the ration allowed by law. The food 
is purchased, cooked, and served entirely at the Government expense, and its 
value, whether it be more or less than 30 cents per diem per man, is a matter with 
which the men themselves have nothing to do. 

10. In case any man considers that he is improperly subsisted, he has the 
right, which all persons in the Navy have, to state his grievance at the proper 
time and place to his commanding officer, who should then cause the commissary 
to investigate the matter, and, if the complaint is well founded, to take steps to 
place the resi^onsibility and to prevent a recurrence of the fault complained of. 

11. The men are entitled to the full benefit of the money and stores allowed 
for their subsistence, and no expenditure can be made from the general mess 
fund, except for the benefit of the mess; nor can any of this money or these stores 
be withheld (when they can be used to advantage) and allowed to accumulate as 
a surjDlus. In cases, however, where a surplus of either money or stores does 
unavoidably exist when a ship is placed out of commission, the members of the 
mess have no claim whatever to any part of it and it reverts to the Government, 
the stores being taken up as a gain on issues and the money being credited to 
the appropriation "Provisions, Navy." 

12. Subsistence of enlisted men absent from the ship on duty will, when 
practicable, be furnished by the general mess. When men are landed in large 
numbers for an expedition or for going into camp with the expectation of being 
absent from the ship for more than twenty-four hours, the paymaster's clerk or 
the commissary steward, or both, according to the proportion of the ship's com- 
pany landed and the importance of the expedition, together with such cooks and 
bakers as may be necessary, and a sufficient number of messmen, should consti- 
tute the commissary corps. 

13. Special attention is invited to Articles 387, 391, 392, 753, and 1402, Navy 
Regulations, as amended by General Orders 68, 105, and 119. It will be noted 
that the board of audit is required to make its report to the commanding officer 
monthly and in writing; its recommendations being based upon facts adduced in 
the audit of the mess accounts, and confined to its financial feature alone. 



732 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

The Gommissary. — 14. The pay officer of the ship, or, in ships having no 
pay officer, an officer designated by the captain is the commissary, and is solely 
responsible for the purchase and preparation of the food for the general mess, 
the care of the stores, and the judicious expenditure of mess funds, keeping the 
accounts of the mess and administering all its affairs except the serving of the 
food at the mess table. 

15. His authority in the performance of these duties is commensurate with 
his responsibility, and all persons employed in the service of the general mess 
are subject to his orders. 

16. The commissary should frequently inspect the storerooms allotted to 
the general mess and see that the stores are properly stowed and that the rooms 
are dry and well ventilated. Any deterioration in the stores being a direct loss to 
the mess, g^eat care should be exercised in their selection, and no greater quantity 
should be bought at one time than can be used within the period they may be 
expected to keep in good condition. 

17. The commissary should not permit any stores to be purchased until a list 
of them has been submitted to him and carefully examined and approved. No 
stores should be received on board unless accompanied by a bill or memorandum 
by which they can be checked off; and before being stowed away all stores 
should be carefully inspected by the commissary or the commissary steward. No 
bills should be contracted that can not be paid from the funds in hand or by the 
ration money that will accrue to the mess during the current month. All bills 
should be settled at the end of each month, and always before the ship sails 
from port. 

18. The commissary should keep the cash accounts of the mess so that they 
can be conveniently audited by the general inspector of the pay corps, the pay- 
master of the fleet, or by the board appointed for the purpose. All expenditures 
must be substantiated by vouchers, which are to be exliibited when the accounts 
are inspected. 

19. He should cause the commissary steward to keep a stock account which 
should embrace all stores and all property of the general mess. The value of the 
balance shown upon this stock account should be taken into consideration in mak- 
ing up the statement of the financial condition of the mess. 

20. The commissary should, when he deems it advisable, submit written re- 
ports and recommendations to the captain regarding the general mess, and he 
must do so wlienever the interests of the mess require any change which he, him- 
self, is not authorized to make. 

21. The commissary should mark the enlisted men of his department in 
proficiency in rating and should immediately report any inefficiency or careless- 
ness in their performance of duty. 

22. He should frequently inspect the food before it is delivered to the mess 
men at the galley, and in case he finds it improperly prepared, should take steps 
to prevent any further occurrence of the kind. If cooks are not thoroughly com- 



NAVY KATIONS 733 

petent, they should be made to follow strictly the recipes in this book, and fla- 
grant cases of incompetency should be reported. 

The Commissary Stewards. — 23. The chief commissary steward or commis- 
sary steward is the chief petty officer in charge, under the commissary, of the 
general mess. He is entitled to respect and obedience from all persons of inferior 
rating while in the performance of his duties, and he is responsible for the proper 
execution of the orders of the commissary. The daily bill of fare should be made 
out by the commissary steward and submitted to the commissary, and the neces- 
sary stores issued to the cooks at the galley. He should direct the manner of its 
preparation and shall be in charge of the galley and the men employed at it, and 
should frequently inspect the food before it is delivered to the messmen to be 
served. He should see that the galley and all the galley utensils are kept in proper 
condition, giving particular attention to their cleanliness. 

24. He should report to the commissary daily, in writing, all purchases made 
and debts contracted, and keep that officer advised of the needs of the mess. He 
is to draw from the pay department, at the appointed time, such government 
stores as are due the mess, and must keep an account of these stores for the veri- 
fication of the provision return at the end of each quarter. When fresh provisions 
are issued he should be on deck, when practicable, to receive them from the repre- 
sentative of the pay department as soon as they have been received on board and 
inspected. In case these fresh provisions, or any other stores issued to the mess 
by the pay department are, in the opinion of the commissary steward, of inferior 
quality and unfit for issue, he should report the matter to the commissary, who 
shall make a personal investigation, and, in case he finds the objection well 
founded, should take the necessary steps to provide other stores, as prescribed by 
the regulations. An issuing book should be kept by the pay yeoman and signed 
daily by the commissary steward, in order that no question may arise at the end 
of the quarter as to the stores drawn by the general mess. The commissary 
steward may, with the authority of the commissary, draw from the pay dej^art- 
ment such government stores as are required in excess of the allowance, and 
these stores shall be paid for from the mess fund at the end of each month. 

The Cooks. — 25. The senior cook, or, if there are two or more of the same 
rating, one selected by the commissary, should be in immediate charge of the 
galley and act in the capacity of head cook. He should be held strictly respon- 
sible for the cleanliness of the galley and the utensils pertaining to it, for the 
maintenance of discipline among his assistants, for the proper preparation of the 
food, and for having the meals ready at the prescribed hours. He should per- 
sonally superintend the cooking of all meals, and should carefully inspect all 
food before it is delivered to the messmen. It is his duty to report to the com- 
missary any inefficiency or neglect on the part of his assistants; otherwise the 
entire blame for poor cooking or any other delinquency at the galley should rest 
upon him. The head cook should keep the commissary steward informed as to 
the requirements of the galley, and should from time to time prepare lists of arti- 
cles required by him in his cooking, which are not included in the Navy ration. 
He is responsible for the galley utensils and will report immediately when they 
are lost or damaged. 



734 ARMY A:N^D NAVY RATIONS 

26. The other cooks should, as far as possble, be assigned specific duties at 
the galley in order that the responsibility for any neglect may readily be placed. 
One should be detailed as "meat cook/' another as "vegetable cook," and one man 
should, in addition to other duties, be held responsible for the preparation of the 
coffee and tea. 

27. The cooks in the lower ratings should be detailed for starting fires, clean- 
ing the galley and utensils (regular cleaning stations being assigned them) and 
for preparing the food for cooking. 

28. The organization of the force at the galley should be as complete and 
efficient as that of a gun division. 

The Bakers. — 29. The commissary steward should issue to the baker such 
quantities of flour and other ingredients as may be necessary for making bread 
for the mess and keep him advised of the amount of bread required from day to 
day. 

30. The baker, or, in ships which are allowed two bakers, the baker first class, 
is to be held responsible for the proper baking of the bread and for its delivery to 
the messmen at the appointed times. He is also responsible for the condition of 
the bake ovens and the utensils used by him. 

PART II. THE COMMISSARY STORE 

Establishment and Administration. — 31. There being no public funds avail- 
able for the establishment of a store on board ships of the Navy, such establish- 
ment is not made compulsory, but is left to the discretion of the commanding 
officer. The advantages of such a store are, however, so obvious and so great that 
provision is made in the regulations for its administration in ships where it 
exists, or may be established. 

32. The objects of a commissary' store are: 

(1) To enable the men to purchase a better quality of the articles 

usually obtained from bumboat men, and at a lower price. 

(2) To return directly to the men all profits from their purchases not 

needed for carrying on the business. 

(3) To bring under official control the sale of all merchandise on 

board ship, and thus do away with bumboat men and peddlers, 
and reduce the chances of liquor or other unauthorized articles 
being brought on board. The sale of any merchandise on board 
ship, except by the store, should be prohibited as far as prac- 
ticable. Tailors, persons doing repairing, and those selling spe- 
cial articles which cannot conveniently be handled by the store, 
may be exempt from this prohibition, but dealers in milk, pies, 
fruit, and such articles should not be allowed to sell to the men. 

33. The commissary should make agreement with reliable merchants to sup- 
ply to the store, while the ship is in port, such stores as are salable but cannot 
be carried in stock, and these articles should be delivered to the storekeeper and 



NAVY RATIONS 735 

by him sold to the men at a very small advance. For example, if it be thought 
advisable to have milk for sale in the store when the ship is in port, the commis- 
sary should arrange with a dealer to place on board, at a specified time each day, 
a quantity of milk at a fixed price, such quantity as may be sold to be paid for, 
and the balance to be taken away by the dealer. 

34. The stock being purchased from reliable firms at wholesale prices, will be 
better in quality and lower in price than that usually carried by bumboats or 
itinerant merchants. The greater part of the retail dealer's profit should revert 
directly to the purchaser at the time he buys the article — that is, the price charged 
should be very little, if any, above the wholesale price. Such small profits as 
may from time to time accrue shall be expended by the pay officer in such man- 
ner as the commanding officer deems most conducive to the pleasure and comfort 
of the enlisted men. No part of these profits, however, is under any circumstances 
to be transferred to the general mess for the purpose of supplementing the 
authorized ration. 

35. In ships where the men desire to subscribe for the original stock of a 
commissary store, and the commanding officer authorizes its establishment, the 
commissary is, by the regulations, placed in charge of it. This officer is to re- 
ceive voluntary subscriptions from the crew, giving them receipts (stated to be 
not negotiable) for the amount subscribed, with the agreement that these receipts 
may be surrendered and the amount of the subscription refunded after the 
original stock has been paid for and the business is on a good financial basis. 
The original subscribers, after they have been paid the amount of their subscrip- 
tions, have no further claim upon, nor interest in, the store. 

36. During this period it is advisable to make the prices correspond with 
those of retail dealers in order that the store may be independent as soon as possi- 
ble, but when all indebtedness has been discharged and the store is self-support- 
ing, the profits should be reduced to a minimum, it being always borne in mind 
that making money is not one of the objects of the store. The injustice of mak- 
ing profits from sales to one set of men to be divided among another set at the 
expiration of a cruise is manifest, and for this reason the regulations provide 
that such profits be used to improve the bill of fare of the general mess, but 
with tile present ample ration no addition to the mess fund should be necessary; 
and by reduction in prices from time to time, as experience dictates, the monthly 
surplus should be reduced to a minimum, thus disposing of the regular retail 
dealer's profit in the most equitable manner possible, i.e., by giving the benefit 
of it to each purchaser in the form of a discount. 

37. It is impracticable to operate a store unless a suitable room, used for 
no other purpose and to which only the storekeeper has access, is available for the 
purpose. 

38. The commissary of the ship has charge of the ship's store. He is allowed 
the services of a yeoman for duty as storekeeper. The commissary should give his 
personal attention to the purchase of stock for the store, should fix the prices at 
which the articles are sold, establish a businesslike system for the operation of 



736 ARMY AND NAVY RATIONS 

the store, and direct all its affairs. He shall keep the cash account and cause the 
storeman to turn in daily all money not required for making change. 

39. All the accounts of the commissary store should be kept in such manner 
as to admit of ready inspection by the general inspector of the pay corps, the 
paymaster of the fleet, or by the board appointed for that purpose. 

40. The storekeeper should be responsible to the commissary for the proper 
conduct of the store. He is to keep the account of the stock, and of the sales, and 
submit to the commissary from time to time lists of articles required. 

41. In order to protect the store from any loss, either through carelessness or 
dishonesty, the following method of keeping the accounts should be employed: 

At the end of each month an account of stock should be taken, and the arti- 
cles found to be on hand entered in a book similar to the return of clothing and 
small stores. (This blank may conveniently be used for the purpose, the head- 
ings of the columns being changed.) These quantities represent the stock on hand 
at the beginning of the new month and to them should be added all stores 
received from purchase. At the end of the month the quantities found to be on 
hand should be entered in the proper line and subtracted from the total receipts 
and the diflference entered as "sales." By multiplying the number of each article 
sold by its selling price and taking the total of that line in the return will be 
found the amount which the storekeeper sliould have received, and this amount 
be should be required to turn in or account for. 

42. If no prices are changed except at the beginning of a month, and if the 
established prices are displayed on the store bulletin board so that no over- 
charges can be made, this system will be a simple and absolute check on the 
storekeeper. 

43. The man selected for this responsible duty should first of all be entirely 
trustworthy. He must be quick and accurate at figures and write legibly. It is 
his duty to receive such stock as may be delivered for the store, conveniently 
arrange it in the storeroom, and keep the latter clean and see that it is ready for 
inspection at the appointed time. He is to open the store for the sale of mer- 
chandise to the men at such times as may be appointed by the commissary, with 
the authority of the captain. He should keep a small memorandum book in 
which to enter the amounts turned in daily to tlie commissary, and when that 
oflicer receives the money, he should initial the amount in the book. 

PART III. THE PREPARATION OF FOOD 

The Ration. — 44. The dietary of the enlisted men of the Navy must neces- 
sarily be based upon the ration provided by law. In general messes, where the 
circumstances are favorable, provisions which are not a jiart of the ration may 
at times be purchased, but articles of which there is a supply already on board 
in the pay department should not be bought unless the government stores shall 
have deteriorated, in which case they should be surveyed and a new stock 
obtained at the first opportunitj. 



NAVY RATIONS 7C7 

45. Unless there be some good reason for not doing so, the official issuing 
table should be strictly adhered to, it having been arranged to give the necessary 
variety. 

The Galley. — 46. The ship's galley (or that part of it used by the general 
mess), together with its appurtenances, is under the charge of the commissary. 
That officer should see that the galley and its utensils are properly cared for and 
are ready for inspection at the appointed times. He should himself frequently 
inspect this part of his department and advise the equipment officer of any re- 
pairs or alterations needed, and should, when occasion demands it, furnish that 
officer with a list of galley utensils requiring a survey. 

Cooking. — 47. On board ship, where the facilities are necessarily restricted 
and the food lacking in variety compared to that obtainable on shore, it is of the 
highest importance that the verj' best results possible under the circumstances 
should be obtained. With a liberal allowance of cooks and bakers, and a judi- 
cious selection of the men for these rates, the Navy ration should be so prepared 
as to give the enlisted men three nourishing and palatable meals each day, and 
it should be the duty of the commissary department to see that this is' done. 
Frequent inspections of the food by the commissary and the commissary steward, 
and efficiency on the part of the cooks alone can insure this. 

REFERENCES 

1. Woodruff, Maj. Chas. E. J. Am. M. Assn., Dec. 3, 1892, p. 651. 

2. U. S. Army Regulation, 1913, par. 1202. 

3. War Dept., Edition of 1913, par. 1205, General Orders, No. 15 ; 

War Dept., 1913, Bull. 28. 

4. Harvaed, Col. Valrey. Military Hygiene, Wm. Wood and Co. 

5. War Dept., Bull. No. 21, Executive Order, May 28, 1914, William 

Wood and Co. 

6. MuNsoN, Ed. L. Boston Med. & Surg. J., May 24, 1900. 

T. Gephart. In the Laboratory of the Russell Sage Institute of 
Pathology, Ed. J. A. M. A. 
Davis. Food in Health and Disease, p. 62. 

8. LusK, Graham. "Food Economics," J. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 

6, p. 340, 1916. 

9. Woodruff, Maj. Chas. E. Med. Rec, May 20, 1899. 

10. Woodruff, Major. Med. Rec, N. Y., May, 1899, p. 701. 

11. Fauntleroy, a. M. Med. Corps, U. S. N, Medico-Military As- 

pects of the European War, Bureau of Med. and Surg., Navy 
Dept. 

12. Caldwell, W. B. Mil. Surgeon, March, 1916, vol. 38, No. 3. 

13. TsuL Mil. Surgeon, Nov., 1909. 

14. Fitch, W. E., Maj. M. R. C, Military Surgeon, May, 1917. 



CHAPTER XIX 



EOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

Food Situations in Countries at War: Germany, Great Britain. 

Use of Certain Foodstufts in War : Bread and Cereal Foods ; Milk, Sugar ; 

Alcohol in War Economies; the Food Situation in the United States. 
Summary. 

Out of evil good may come, and, of course, this saying is as true of 
war as of any evil thing. So far as the food question is concerned, many 
valuable lessons have been learned with respect to food values, and al- 
though at the time of writing, the war is still in progress, with no signs 
of a speedy end, it has been felt by the author that a work on diet written 
at such a period would not be complete unless the matter of feeding 
populations shut off from most or many of their ordinary sources of sup- 
ply was at least discussed. Perhaps no really definite lessons as to food 
can be learned until the conflict is over, but, on the other hand, a good 
deal of valuable information has already been collected, and some of the 
facts brought out should not be passed over. 

For example, it has been proved beyond peradventure that not only 
can the physical equilibrium be maintained without luxuries — this was 
known before — but that, if a diet is well balanced, the energy and heat 
necessary to keep the human machine in good working order can be pro- 
vided by a quantity considerably less than would have been considered 
adequate in the piping days of peace. The lesson has been fairly well 
learned by the inhabitants of some of the countries at war that food can 
be reduced to the exact requirements of the human machine, with much 
benefit to the smooth working of that machine. The members of the med- 
ical profession have long preached — and their preaching has been as the 
voice of one crying in the wilderness — the doctrine of self-control in the 
matter of food. The evils of gluttony or of eating to excess have been 
enlarged on in Volume II, Chapter VI, and the fact that governments, 
for the purpose of high politics, have had to step in to heal, in spite of 

739 



740 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAE 

themselves, many unsuspected victims of gluttony,^ possesses a decidedly 
ironical aspect. The experience of the war has proven, once and for all 
time, that the majority of well-to-do persons persistently eat more than 
is good for health, and has clearly demonstrated that the diet to which 
an individual has become addicted by custom, and which he has brought 
himself to believe the most nutritious, is often surpassed by articles of 
diet which he has been wont to despise as cheap and lacking in strength 
and energy-giving properties. 

FOOD SITUATIONS IN COUNTRIES AT WAR 

Germany. — The European war aflForded an unique opportunity, 
though an unsought one, to study the relation of the food supply to un- 
expected economic and territorial conditions. In Germany, in particular, 
the situation was unparalleled owing to the exclusion of the greater part 
of the food which in normal times was obtained from abroad. Germany 
had been in the custom of procuring most of her wheat, rice and other 
foods from Kussia. This source of supply was completely ciit oif. From 
the Scandinavian countries she had obtained a large proportion of butter, 
eggs and lard, and from America both foods and crude materials which 
were applied to animal production. With all these external sources of 
supply threatened or wholly cut off, the question presented itself, how 
were the inhabitants, civil and military, to be fed, relying, perhaps, 
mainly on internal resources. 

With the organizing ability and scientific acumen with which the 
Germans have long been credited, their professors and business men pro- 
ceeded to attack the problem, and in the early days of the war Dr. Paul 
Eltzbacher, acting Rector of the Berlin High School, edited a pamphlet 
in which leading experts discussed the problems of the food supply in 
Germany and the means to be taken for assuring adequate provision for 
all the inhabitants. According to this pamphlet, the export of native 
products, such as sugar and rice, was to be restricted ; the feeding of ma- 
terials suitable for human consumption to cattle was to be greatly de- 
creased. Conservation of food values ordinarily lost in the processes of 
conversion into animal tissue was to be brought about ; unjustifiable waste 
was to be avoided not only on a large scale but even in the individual 
kitchen. The minuteness and the elaborate nature of the study were 
indicated by such details as reminders that twenty grams of fat per capita 



1 The evils of gluttony or of eating to excess have been enlarged upon in Chapter 
VI of this volume. 



FOOD SITUATIONS IN COUNTRIES AT WAR 741 

were lost in the sewage waste of Berlin every day, and that this ought to 
be prevented. 

The inhabitants, on the authority of well-known scientific men, were 
assured that changes of dietary regimen intelligently carried out need 
cause no alarm, as the public health would not suffer thereby. Pamphlets 
were widely distributed in which the laws governing nutrition were pro- 
claimed and suitable dietetic advice was given. It was urged that plant 
products, rich in carbohydrates, should be more liberally used and that 
the consumption of meat, rich in proteins and fats, should be restricted. 
The substitution of the regimen of South German households in the place 
of the excessive meat diet of the northern provinces was strongly recom- 
mended. Even a cook book for war time was freely distributed, and the 
services of German chemists were requisitioned to supply by the aid of 
their science substitutes for some of the lacking food products. 

Another pamphlet was issued in the early part of 1916, the authors 
of which were Professors Kuczynski and Zuntz of Berlin. On Jan. 25, 
1915, the German government took the supplies of wheat and rye into 
its own hands and decreed that those engaged in agriculture should have 
an allowance of 7.2 kilogi-ams of flour per month per head, and the rest 
of the population 225 grams daily per head. In February, the allow- 
ance of 225 grams was reduced to 200. In time of peace the average 
consumption per head was 340 grams, so that the people as a whole had 
to deny themselves 14 per cent of their accustomed nourishment, and the 
poor, with whom bread is a more important item, 25 per cent. 

For the first six months of the war, the condition of the food supply 
was not less favorable than in time of peace. Food prices had risen 
steadily, although in many trades wages had risen correspondingly. Later 
on, as the cereal supply began to run short and a bread ration was fixed, 
the poorer classes lost about 20 per cent to 25 per cent of their staple 
diet. The price of rye bread in January, 1915, had risen 33 per cent, 
and in May, 53 per cent; while wheat bread had advanced 26 per cent 
and 35 per cent as compared with prices in January, 1914, and May, 
1914. With other foods, prices had risen on an average of 81 per cent 
from May, 1914, to May, 1915. This great rise in prices forced the 
mass of the people to buy the cheaper kinds of foods and also to buy 
smaller quantities. A great deal of the difference was accounted for by 
more careful cooking and usage, as cooking potatoes in their skins; but 
in such foods as meat, milk, etc., such a saving was not possible. Briefly, 
the situation from February or March, 1915, onwards, was one of en- 
forced moderation, with health-giving results to hundreds of thousands 

147 



742 



FOOD ECO:^OMICS IK WAR 



of over-fed people, but implying for the masses a weakening of their 
working capacity by hardships which amounted to actual want. 

The second chapter of the Kuczynski and Zuntz pamphlet dealt with 
the right division of food between man and beast, into which there is no 
space to enter at length. The importance of sugar as a foodstuff was 
dwelt upon, not only as a food, but as a means of preserving large quan- 
tities of fruit and vegetables. 

The finding of new fodder, consequent upon the reservation for the 
use of man of foodstuffs which used to be employed for animal-feeding 
purposes, was a feature of the situation. In the search for new fodder 
it was recommended that the forests of leafy trees might supply nutri- 
ment for pigs and cows. The comparative luitritive value of the various 
leaves is shown in the following table, giving the amount of protein and 
starch obtained from 100 kilograms of each raw material : 

COMPARATIVE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF VARIOUS LEAVES 



Species op Fodder 


Digestive Protein 


Starch 


Elm leaves (young) 


Kg. 

11.7 
9.7 

26.6 

11.3 
6.0 
0.9 
6.7 
5.5 
5.5 
1.3 


Kg. 
50.0 


« (old) 


38.8 


Acacia leaves 


54.0 


Horse-chestnut leaves 


41.7 


Poplar leaves in October 


26.7 


Copper beech leaves in August 

Vine leaves in autumn 


16.7 
42.5 


Acacia brushwood in winter 


12,6 


Good meadow hay 


31.8 


Oat straw 


17.4 







In order to make the best possible use of leaves, it must be borne in 
mind that during the day the action of light draws considerable quanti- 
ties of starch and sugar into the leaves, some of which returns during the 
night into the woody parts, so that the leaves are of the most nutritive 
value towards evening, when they should be gathered. Towards autumn 
the leaves are less nutritious as well as less digestible, but, on the other 
hand, they contain less water and are more easily dried. This use of 
leaves especially should meet the case of the poorer people in town and 
country who keep one cow or a few goats. This is a lesson that has been 
learned from the war. 

Haberlandt was quoted by the authors as having revealed another 



FOOD iilTUATIONS IN COUNTRIES AT WAR 743 

source of supply in the woods, the sapwood of trees in early spring, with 
its high content of starch and fat. To obtain nutritive matter from straw 
and wood, certain methods are available. The most recent method is the 
use of organic acids which are in themselves of value as fodder, as lactic 
acid. The significance of this method lies in the fact that not only is 
much cellulose converted, into digestible carbohydrate, but the remaining 
nutriment in the cellulose coverings is exposed at the same time to the 
action of the digestive juices of the animal. 

In the search for new fodders, heather was not overlooked, especially 
as it contains very little water, and is therefore easy to dry. Of the 
highest importance in storing foodstuffs is the question of drying, not 
only for animals, but as a means of preserving food in concentrated form 
for man also. The drying of turnip scraps and turnip leaves, of the leav- 
ings of the malt in beer brewing, of the distiller's and other waste prod- 
ucts from various industries, has long been practiced to a large extent, 
sometimes by means of gas, sometimes by steam heating. The hay crop 
can be increased by 20 per cent or 30 per cent by increased facilities for 
drying. 

The following table shows the percentage loss in nutrient material 
by the tardy drying of hay : 





LOSS FROM TARDY CURING OF 


HAY 




Time taken 
for drying 


Protein 


Fat 


Nitrogen-free 
extractives 


Fiber 


Mineral 
salts 


10 days 
20 " 


9.9 
45.8 


49.5 
72.9 


16.3 
46.6 


2.5 

27.7 


12.8 
48.6 



The authors were of the opinion that the drying process was not only 
useful for fodder but also for foodstuffs. In the household it could be 
done on the hearth, in the oven, or in the open air. Not only the usual 
fruits, such as plums, apples, cherries, bilberries, etc., should be pre- 
served by these means, but also potatoes, either raw or in slices, or boiled 
in their skins and then mashed. Further, since drying factories could 
not be built fast enough, pickling methods must be improved by the em- 
ployment of the culture of bacilli. Even in the case of withered turnip 
tops the Institute of Fermentation Industries at Berlin found that by 
placing them in large quantities in cemented pits and treating them with 
a culture of lactic acid, loss by fermentation was considerably reduced. 



744 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

Among the many lessons which the war has taught in the matter of 
diet is that when woman works at manual labor in the open air, cultivat- 
ing the fields, for example, as she has in England and Germany, she needs 
a ration liberal in proportion to the expenditure of energy. This was a 
matter that was somewhat overlooked in the calculations as to economizing 
the food supply. 

Another important lesson that has been learned is that fat is a factor 
of more prominence than was generally believed in the scheme of nutri- 
tion. While fat formed a fair proportion of a German diet in the ordi- 
nary way, the production of fat has not been encouraged or stimulated by 
the German agricultural system. As early as the autumn of 1915, in 
addition to two meatless days in the week, the German regimen ordered 
the introduction of two fatless days. German writers generally, follow- 
ing Voit, have rated the desirable amount of fat in the daily ration at 
56 grams, almost 2 ounces to 100 grams, for men at hard manual labor 
in the open air. It has been taught by them that with increase in the 
body's demand for available food fuel, it is preferable not to increase too 
largely the carbohydrate intake, which is usually put at about 500 grams, 
but rather to add to the quota of fat in about the proportion indicated 
by the above quoted figures. It must be borne in mind that an increment 
in fat can be obtained with far less increase of bulk than a comparable 
augmentation of carbohydrate-containing foods will permit. A gram of 
fat yields more than twice the energy that is yielded by the same unit 
weight of the other available nutrients. 

Dr. Alonzo E. Taylor, who was in Germany during a part of the war, 
and was afforded special facilities for studying the food question at first 
hand, gave the results of his experiences and deductions drawn therefrom 
in a series of exceptionally able articles contributed to the Saturday Even- 
ing Post in the early part of 1917, from which the author has drawn 
largely in the preparation of this section. He stated that in 1915 the fat 
intake in Germany was not more than 20 grams, animal and vegetable, per 
capita per day. While this is certainly more than enough to cover the needs 
in fat soluble vitamines and is twice the intake of fat of the Japanese, the 
fact remains that the people were hungry. The consumption of fat in 
Germany prior to the war was about Si/o ounces per capita per day, of 
which nearly half was obtained by importation, directly or indirectly. 
As the cultivation of fat-producing materials had not been encouraged, 
and as the partial blockade to which Germany was subjected very greatly 
restricted the importation of fat upon which the country largely de- 
pended for its supply, the inhabitants had to go without a good deal of 



FOOD SITUATIONS IK COUNTRIES AT WAR 745 

the fatty ingredients of diet to which they were accustomed. Fat being a 
fertile source of energy, they suffered much from this deprivation. 

The following table culled from Taylor's paper (1) contains the esti- 
mates of four different calculations as stated for protein, fat, carbohydrate 
and calories per head per day of the food consumption of Germany based 
on official data for the years 1912 and 1913. 

CONSUMPTION OF FOOD UNITS IN GERMANY, 1912-1913 





Total 


Imported 


Domestic 


Observer 


1 


1 


St 


1 


! 


^ 

fe 






1 




1 


.1 


Balled 


oz. 

3.10 

3.30 

3.70 

3.25 


oz. 

2;15 

3.75 
3.11 
2.33 


oz. 

14.5 

18.7 

20.1 

16.0 


2,708 
3,642 
3,550 
2,790 


oz. 

0.85 

0.90 

1.13 

0.90 


oz. 

0.88 

1.60 

1.06 

1.06 


oz. 
0.8 
1.5 
1.4 
1.4 


450 
715 
473 
550 


oz. 

2.25 

2.40 

2.57 

2.35 


oz. 

1.30 

2.10 

2.05 

1.27 


oz. 

13.5 

17.2 

18.7 

14.6 


2 480 


Eltzbacher 


2,927 
3,077 
2 204 


Kuczynski and Zuntz. 
Taylor 







In the Eltzbacher report the German population was put down as 
68,000,000. The number of children of each year and the number of 
adult males and females were known. The figure for the number of 
children of each year of age was multiplied by the figure for the food 
need of that year. The number of adult females and the number of 
adult males were multiplied respectively by 85 and 100. The final figure 
for the needed food units, a compromise between several standards, was 
51,822,908. 

This means that the population of 68,000,000 would be nourished if 
it received the ration of 51,822,908 adults. Three thousand calories was 
the figure set for the adult need. The caloric needs of the German people 
were, therefore, determined by the simple multiplication — 3,000 x 365 x 
51,822,908 = 56,750,000,000,000 calories. When this figure for total 
calories, determined on the basis of man ration, was divided by the figure 
for the population, the result was 2,280 calories a day. The protein needs 
of the people were also calculated. Children under six years of age were 
allotted 1.4 ounces a day ; from six to twelve, about 1.75 ; from twelve to 
eighteen, about 2.3. Adult men were allotted 2.9 ounces; adult women, 
2.4. 

Taylor, taking into consideration that all work harder in war time, 
especially women, and further considering that the estimate for children 



746 



FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 



from 12 to 18 was too low, calculated the protein aud calorie needs of the 
German people in war time as follows: protein, 1,524,000 tons; calories, 
63,000,000,000,000. 

The protein needs as set forth by figures supplied by Eltzbacher, Tay- 
lor and Chittenden are as follows : 





PROTEIN NEEDS IN OUNCES 








Per Capita 


Man Ration 


Eltzbacher 


2.30 oz. 
2.15 war-time 
1.5 


2.83 oz. 


Taylor 


2.5 " 


Chittenden 


1.8 " 









CALORIC NEEDS 



Eltzbacher. 

Taylor 

Chittenden 



Per Capita 



2,380 peace-time 
2,510 war-tune 
2.030 



Man Ration 



3,000 
3,300 
2,600 



The peace-time consumption of protein in Germany, according to the 
Chittenden standard, was 50 per cent in excess of requirements, and the 
domestic production of protein was just large enough to cover the need. 
It seemed also apparent from the data that the fat consumption in peace- 
time was too large, and that the fat of domestic origin should be enough 
to satisfy normal requirements. Consequently, it appeared evident to the 
German scientists, at any rate, that if the German people would reduce 
their consumption to the plane of physiological needs, that is, physiolog- 
ical needs chiefly computed by means of lalwratory experiments, and 
maintain the domestic production on the peace-time basis, they would 
not experience much harm by a blockade. 

When one compares what has been achieved in production with what 
the commission of German scientists believed could be attained, the re- 
sults are not creditable to the agricultural classes, even when the influ- 
ences of unfavorable weather are fully allowed for. The Eltzbacher 
Commission made the following estimates: (a) peace-time use: protein, 
2,261,000 tons, and calories, 88,694,000,000,000, including protein of 
domestic origin, 1,650,000 tons, and calories, 71,282,000,000,000. (h) 
physiological need: protein, 1,605,000 tons; calories, 56,750,000,000,000. 
(c) attainahle production under blockade: protein, 2,022,000 tons; calo- 
ries, 81,250,000,000,000. Actual production in 1014-15 in foodstuffs 



FOOD SITUATIONS IN COUNTRIES AT WAR 747 

was: protein, 1,510,000 tons; calories, 63,410,000,000,000. Actual pro- 
duction in 1915-16 was: protein, 1,100,000 tons; calories, 57,000,000,- 
000,000. 

The dietary of the industrial classes of Germany was from March to 
September, 1J)16, reduced to the physiological minimum. This diet was 
low in animal protein, very low in fat, and low in calories, and when the 
. work that had to be done was considered, manifestly insufficient. A sur- 
vey of the chief manufacturing cities of the empire carried out during 
the late months of 1916 indicated that the average intake for adults varied 
from 1.6 to 2 ounces of protein and from 1,800 to 2,500 calories per day. 
As Taylor remarked, since this was not sufficient to maintain the physical 
labor that was being done, this was accomplished by utilization of the 
body fat of the workers. 

Food Situation in Great Britain. — It was not until the early part of the 
year 1917 that the British Government took any very definite steps lead- 
ing to a control of the food supply, though a ban had been placed on some 
articles of food and, of course, advice had been given as to the need for 
economy of food and warning against waste had been freely tendered. 
The report on the food supply of the United Kingdom, drawn up by a 
committee of the Royal Society, was published in the first week of Feb- 
ruary, 1917, and provided some very interesting information. The first 
part contained an estimate of the annual food supply of Great Britain, im- 
ported and home-produced, in the period before the war, 1909-1913. 

It may be said here that, according to Taylor (2), in the year before 
the war, about 13,750,000 tons of foodstuffs and feeding stuffs were im- 
ported into the United Kingdom, nearly ten millions of which were food- 
stuffs. It was not possible to give more than approximate figures, since 
there was overlapping, as, for example, between food fat and industrial 
fat. The total food consumption for Great Britain was probably about 
twenty million tons. To make the gross figure for importation of food- 
stuff more concrete, it may be stated that in 1914 the importation per 
capita was: wheat, 250 pounds; flour, 23.9 pounds; potatoes, 8 pounds; 
sugar, SO pounds; rice, 14.2 pounds; ham and bacon, 14.2 pounds; beef, 
20 pounds; mutton, 12.4 pounds; other meats, 8.4 pounds; butter, 9.46 
pounds ; cheese, 5.75 pounds, and eggs, 46 per head. 

To turn again to the Committee's report, it is there stated that, after 
consideration of the dietary requirements of a nation for the most part 
engaged in active work, the Committee was convinced that they could not 
be met satisfactorily on a less supply in the food than 100 grams pro- 
tein, 100 grams fat, and 500 grams carbohydrates, yielding approximately 



748 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

3,400 calories per man per day, a *^man" being an average workman doing 
an average day's work. The Committee adopted this as the minimnm 
standard. Generally speaking, a woman or child requires less food than 
a man, and to convert the population of men, women and children into 
units, or "men," as defined above, the total number must be reduced by 
23 per cent. In reckoning diet, 100 men, women and children equal 77 
units, that is to say, men. 

The total quantities of foodstuffs available during the period 1909-13 
provided 4,009 calories per "man." There had been a certain margin, 
and the Committee calculated, taking the minimum physiological stand- 
ard mentioned above, that there had been either wasted, or consumed in 
excess of requirements, of proteins 11 to 14 per cent, of fats 25 to 30 per 
cent, of carbohydrates 10 to 14 per cent. It should be noted that the fig- 
ures for quantities of food are for weights as purchased, no attempt hav- 
ing been made for loss during distribution, nor for digestibility. 

The second part of the report dealt with the food supply in 1916. 
The Committee stated that down to the end of July in that year, the 
supply of food had provided a general margin of about 5 per cent above 
the minimum necessary for proper nutrition and rather more as regards 
the supply of energy, so that a reduction to this extent would still furnish 
amounts of the essential food constituents conforming to the standard 
adopted. Such a reduction could be borne without serious injury to the 
community, provided steps were taken to ensure the equitable distribu- 
tion of the available food throughout the population. Speaking as physi- 
ologists, the members of the Committee laid stress on the fact that in buy- 
ing food the laboring population was buying energy. If rising prices 
curtailed for any class of the community its accustomed supply of food, 
its output of work would of necessity be reduced, and it was important 
to remember that a slight reduction of food below the necessary amount 
caused a large diminution in the working eificiency of the individual. 

In an appendix to the report, some particulars were given of army 
rations. The weekly rations issued to the army at home in England were 
as follows: beef, 84 ounces; bacon, 14 ounces; bread, 112 ounces; sugar, 
14 ounces, and in addition, the men were in the habit of purchasing vari- 
ous articles of food from a long list yielding on an average 1,510 calories 
a day, giving a total energy value for the diet of a man in the British 
home army of 4,031 calories a day. The civil population at a similar 
rate, but with a reduction of 23 per cent for women and children, would 
be entitled to a diet yielding an energy value of about 2,667 calories a 
day. 



FOOD SITUATIONS IN COUNTRIES AT WAR 749 

The following are figures estimating the food consumption of Great 
Britain during the first year of the war compiled by a German statisti- 
cian, Ballod, a British physiologist, Thompson, and Dr. Alonzo E. 
Taylor. 

FOOD CONSUMPTION PER HEAD PER DAY IN UNITED KINGDOM 





Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Calories 


Thompson 


2.70 oz. 
3.75 " 
3.25 "' 


3.60 oz. 

2.58 " 
3.18 " 


15.5 oz. 

15.6 " 
15.1 " 


3,100 
2 900 


Ballod 


Taylor 


3 000 







According to Thompson for Great Britain, and the Eltzbacher Com- 
mission for Germany, the subsistence of one hundred inhabitants would 
be about covered by the food required by seventy-five adult males, and the 
man rations of the three estimations would be as follows, in ounces and 
calories : 

FOOD REQUIRED 





Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Calories 


Thompson 


3.59 

5.0 

4.38 


4.81 
3.45 
4.24 


20.7 
20.8 
20.1 


4,130 


Ballod 


3,860 


Taylor 


4,000 





The caloric need of the adult man was put by the Eltzbacher Com- 
mission at 3,000 calories, somewhat low for the extraordinary work of 
war time, lower by 400 calories than that set as a minimum by the Com- 
mittee of the Royal Society of Great Britain. However, reckoning it at 
this figure, 40,240,000,000,000 calories would be required to maintain 
the bodily heat and energy of the 45,370,000 inhabitants of the British 
Isles for a year. 

The protein requirements calculated in similar fashion, on the com- 
putation of the Eltzbacher Commission, 80 grams per day for an adult 
man, would work out at 1,130,000 metric tons. The British Committee 
considered that the minimum protein requirement for an adult man was 
100 grams, while Chittenden and other physiologists have contended that 
this amount could be greatly reduced without injury to the public health. 
The German experience during the war seems to lend some support to the 
view that Chittenden and his followers were correct, but until more is 



750 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

known concerning conditions in Germany than is known at the time of 
writing, it will not be discreet to be dogmatic on this point. There is lit- 
tle doubt that the Germans concealed the true state of affairs to a large 
extent. Probably much more food was imported than was believed, and 
also it is not unlikely that the condition of their industrial classes was 
worse than it was credited to have been. Little bad news was allowed to 
leak out, and it must be borne in mind that the main — almost sole — object 
of the German rulers was to feed their army and workers directly con- 
nected with military supplies and to pay much less attention to the other 
members of the community. The fact must also be taken into considera- 
tion with respect to protein ingestion that the British have always been 
heavy meat eaters, and that inherited and ingrained habits count for a 
good deal when the nutritive value of a diet is concerned. 

Nevertheless, we will take it for granted that the British consumption 
of protein was larger than physiological requirements. Taking the physi- 
ological requirements of protein daily for an adult man at eighty grams 
a day and the caloric need at 3,000 calories, the amount of waste in a 
year would read somewhat as follows: 

Protein Tons Billion Calories 

Consumption 1,660,000 53,900 

Need 1,130,000 40,240 

Waste 530,000 13,660 

According to the Eltzbacher Commission, the waste of the German 
people was: protein, 650,000 tons, and calories, 31,899,000,000,000. 
The per capita waste was thus greater in protein in Great Britain, greater 
in calories in Germany. 

From all available data, one might adjudge seven hundred thousand 
tons as a reasonable figiire for domestic production of protein in Great 
Britain. This leaves a deficit of nearly 500,000 tons. In other words, 
the domestic production of protein was about 55 per cent of the require- 
ments. According to Taylor'^ estimate, the following figures show ap- 
proximately the situation in Great Britain in the early part of 1917 as 
regards protein and calories : 

Protein Tons Billion Calories 

Consumption 1,660.000 53,900 

Requirements 1,130,000 40,240 

Domestic production. . . 700,000 19,000 

Deficit 430,000 21,240 



FOOD SITUATIONS m COUNTRIES AT WA?. 751 



In Taylor's papers on the food situation in Germany, which have 
been largely employed as a basis for this chapter, the lack of sugar was 
referred to and attention was drawn to the fact that saccharin was used 
as a substitute. In a report which the same author wrote for the Amer- 
ican Embassy at Berlin, he gave a detailed analysis of the food of the 
civil prisoners at Ruhleben Camp. But before giving a part of this 
report and the references therein to saccharin, a few comments will be 
made on the feeding of military prisoners. The ration established for 
military prisoners in Germany in the month of June, 1916, contained 
2,700 calories a day, made up of 80 grams of protein, 29 of fat, and 500 
of carbohydrate. This, though not plentiful, was adequate as regards its 
caloric value for average men not doing much muscular work. The pro- 
portion of fat is low, but such a diet need not endanger nutrition in adults, 
provided the requisite food value is made up by other foodstuffs. The 
diet, however, for certain prisoners at Ruhleben Camp, and concerning 
which Taylor wrote, was indeed sparse — in fact, a starvation diet. In 
the following table the Ruhleben diets are compared with ordinary stand- 
ards of living: 

RUHLEBEN DIETS COMPARED WITH STANDARD DIETARIES 



Calories 



Protein, 
gms. 



Fat, 
gms. 



Carbo- 
hydrate, 
gms. 



English laborer 

German farm laborer (Ranke) 

Standard diet for a man of moderate 

activity 

Military prisoners of war in Germany. 

Ruhleben diet before reduction 

Diet actually taken when increased by 

food left by other prisoners 

Ruhleben diet since reduction 

Reduced diet when increased by food 

left by others 



3,655 
4,696 

2,820 
2,700 
1,580 

2,725 
1,220 

1,930 



184 
143 

100 
80 
59 

98 
39 

55 



71 
108 

100 
29 
12 

24 
6 

10 



570 

788 

360 
500 
308 

523 
255 

410 



The substitution of saccharin for sugar in the diet of the Ruhleben 
prisoners was commented upon in the Journal of the American Medical 
Association, Aug. 12, 1916, as a war food abuse. When sugar became 
scarce in Germany, the law prohibiting the use of saccharin was abro- 
gated. Two months later its use was made compulsory in certain direc- 
tions. However, as Taylor points out, saccharin can never be termed a 
substitute for sugar from the gustatory or any other point of view. Cer- 
tain articles of food containing saccharin have the normal taste ; to other 



752 FOOD ECONOMICS m WAR 

articles of food, however, an abnormal after-taste is given, a condition 
particularly noticeable in beer. 

Before food regulation was introduced into Great Britain, the diet 
of the munition workers had been regulated with surprisingly good re- 
sults. It must be borne in mind that an immense army of such workers, 
a large proportion of whom were women and children of over twelve 
years of age, had been organized. It was incumbent on the state from 
every point of view that their health should be carefully safeguarded, and 
naturally a sufficiently nutritious diet was a sine qua non in the achieve- 
ment of this object. The soldier and the sailor expected that their diet 
would be arranged to meet their particular needs, and when the great rise 
in the price of food occurred, it was found that, in order to supply the 
munition workers with food of a character calculated to enable them to 
fulfill their important duties with efficiency, they must be dieted accord- 
ing to their special requirements. 

Dr. Leonard Hill was chosen to make an investigation into the mat- 
ter, so that he might supply data upon which improvements in diet might 
be based. He laid down the principle that the amount of food taken 
should be regulated solely by the loss of energy it was required to replace, 
and pointed out that fortunately the chief foodstuffs really provided all 
the nourishment that was requisite for and consistent with health, better 
probably than the more highly flavored and expensive foods which artifi- 
cially stimulate the appetite. Of such foods, Dr. Hill gave the following 
list: bread, margarin, porridge, milk, herrings, cheese, beans, cabbages, 
oranges, and the cheaper kinds of meats. 

Under his direction the canteen meals for munition workers who came 
from some distance were analyzed after the following method : The in- 
gredients were all thoroughly mixed, after weighing each separately, so 
that dietaries could afterwards be constructed from the weights. An ali- 
quot part of the intimate mixture was thoroughly dried and weighed. In 
the dry material protein was determined from a nitrogen estimation, the 
fat by ether extractions in a Soxhlet's apparatus, the ash by burning and 
weighing, and the carbohydrate by difference. In this way the amounts 
of dry protein, fat and carbohydrate respectively in the meal were ob- 
tained, and from these the caloric value was determined. An analysis 
of twelve canteen meals showed that they afforded on an average, protein, 
42.43 ; fat, 36.7 ; carbohydrate, 146.9 grams, yielding 1,114 calories per 
capita. The average canteen dinner was found to be good, containing an 
energy value of 1,114 calories well distributed among the amounts of 
protein, fat and carbohydrate. 



FOOD SITUATIONS IN COUNTKIES AT WAR 753 

The meals brought from home by the workers were also submitted to 
analysis. The workers whose meals were thus obtained were not asked 
beforehand to bring a sample meal, but were interrogated at the entrance 
gates and asked to exchange the contents of their basket for a sum ample 
to buy a meal at the canteen. In the case of men, these meals were found 
to be adequate, but in the case of girls there was a very wide variation., 
from 300 up to 1,100 calories. As for the latter, the breakfast meal be- 
fore starting work was often found to consist of white bread and boiled 
tea. Although there was nothing in the investigation which was very 
new, it showed that a valuable degree of practical certainty was being 
reached in regard to the minimum adequate diet required for a certain 
type of manual labor. 

The following table (3) may be of interest as showing the diet during 
the war, but before voluntary restriction, of three middle class families 
in England. The families consisted of 16 persons, 3 men (sedentary), 
9 women and 4 children: 

DIETARIES FOR THREE MIDDLE-CLASS FAMILIES, SIXTEEN PE BISONS, 
IN ENGLAND BEFORE VOLUNTARY RESTRICTION 





Weekly 
Weight 

in 
Ounces 


Daily Yield in 


Grams 


Energy 


■ 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Value 

in 

Calories 


Meat, sausages, bacon 


50.5 

58.0 

8.9 


28.8 
18.7 


52.4 

2.8 


1.1 

123.1 

36.3 


663 


Bread 


580 


Sugar 


145 






Total 


117.4 


47.5 


55.2 


159.5 


1,388 




Cheese 


4.0 
13.2 
32.0 

7.0 
11.6 

3.8 


4.5 
0.5 
2.27 
16.2 
1.6 
3.7 


4.9 
43.3 
0.13 
2.3 
0.7 
0.2 


0.4 

27.2 
21.3 
24.3 

8.7 


63.4 


Butter, etc 


424.0 


Potatoes.. 


122.0 


Flour and Oatmeal , 


103.0 


Rice, lentils, etc 


270.0 


Jam and dried fruits 


37.8 






Total 


71.6 


28.77 


53.53 


81.9 


1,020.2 







Total ration of restricted articles 


47.5 
28.77 


55.53 
53.53 


159.5 
81.9 • 


1,388 
1,020.2 


Total of extras 






76.27 


108.73 


241.4 


2,408.2 



754 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

So far as this examination went, it appeared to show that the mem- 
bers of middle-class families in England during the war, when left to 
their own devices, received rather less protein, somewhat more fat, and 
considerably less carbohydrates than the standard per head of the whole 
population, and that the yield in calories was about 15 per cent less, 
waste not being reckoned. 

From the above table, the average weekly consumption of milk was 
omitted. This reached the amount for the three families of 4.8 pints 
per week, or 0.7 pints a head, bringing up the energy value of the diet 
per capita per day to 2,910. 

Voluntary Rationing Scheme in Great Britain — A voluntary rationing 
scheme liad been initiated in Great Britain, and was favorably commented 
upon in an editorial which appeared in the Lancet, November 17, 1917. 
It was pointed out that while a faithful adherence to the limited amounts 
of the staple foods outlined in the scheme would save a grave situation, 
no hard dietetic or physiological sacrifice was called for. The staple foods 
named were bread, flour and other cereals, meal, butter, margarin, lard 
and sugar. Outside this list no rationing Avas suggested. Potatoes were 
not included and therefore, as a valuable carbohydrate supply, might be 
largely employed to eke out the stock of scheduled foodstuffs, and so save 
the staples. In addition an exchange could be made in certain cases, 
notably with regard to bread and meat. Thus any person might take half 
a pound of meat over and above his meat ration in exchange for half a 
pound of bread to be deducted from his bread ration and vice versa. The 
Lancet thought that the scheme bears evidence of being well thought out 
from the economic point of view, while it provided a physiological suffi- 
ciency for all. The public of the United States would do well to boar this 
in mind, for it is important to remember that a voluntary rationing 
scheme which provides amply for all physiological needs is much less a 
hardship than actual famine, while its adoption means the releasing of 
so much tonnage, and adding to the efficiency of transport service. In 
plain words, the individual who loyally enters into the spirit of the scheme 
will be helping to win the war, and is doing so in contradiction to no law 
of physiology or of medicine. 

The English scheme applies with force to the food situation in Amer- 
ica. The people must cooperate in thrift so far as food is concerned and 
especially with respect to the staple foods. However, the food situation 
in the ^nited States will be dealt with at some length further on. 

The following table gives at a glance the new rations proposed in 
Great Britain in November, 1017: 



FOOD SITUATIONS IN COUNTRIES AT WAR 755 
ADULT RATIONS IN GREAT BRITAIN, PER HEAD PER WEEK 



Occupations 


Bread 


Other 

Cereals, 

Oz. 


Butter, Fats, 

Margarine, 

Lard, Oil, 

Oz. 


Meat, 
lb. 


Sugar, 
oz. 


1. Men on very heavy industrial 

or on agricultural work 

2. Men on ordinary industrial or 

other manual work 


Slb.Ooz. 
7 " " 

4 " " 

5 " " 
4 " " 
3 " " 


12 
J 


10 


2.0 




3. Men unoccupied or on seden- 

tary work 

4. Women on heavy industrial 

work or on agricultural work 

5. Women on ordinary industrial 

work or in domestic work . . 

6. Women unoccupied or on sed- 

entary work 


8 







The bread rations included all flour, whether used for bread or for 
cooking. Flour might be taken instead of bread at the rate of % lb. of 
flour for every pound of bread. 

The other cereal rations included oatmeal, rice, tapioca, sago, barley 
meal, corn flour, maize meal, dried peas, beans and lentils, and all cereal 
products except bread and flour. The weight given was the weight of 
the dry article, as bought. If the full bread ration was not used, the 
amount saved could be taken in other cereals. The "meat" rations in- 
cluded the average amount of bone, which might be taken as one quarter 
of the weight of the actual meat. Any parts of meat, such as rump steak, 
bacon or suet, which were bought without bone, must count for one- 
quarter more than their actual weight On the other hand, any bone 
in excess of a quarter of the actual meat bought might be deducted. 
Poultry and rabbits might be counted at half their actual weight. The 
meat rations included suet. 

Sir Arthur Yapp, who outlined the scheme, divided the population 
into six sections, three for men and three for women. Children were to 
receive their reasonable ration of essential foods, and as their needs differ 
so widely, a definite ration was omitted for them. Broadly, the scheme 
provided more bread but less meal aiid sugar. 

A very pertinent table on the unrestricted diet of a sedentary worker 
was published by Dr. A. D. Waller, F.R.S. (4), a v^^ell-known physiologist 
and the author of a standard text-book on physiology. The following table 
gives the constituent parts of Dr. Waller's meals on three successive days, 
and it will be gathered from this table that his average caloric consump- 



756 



FOOD ECOIs^OMICS IN WAK 



tion for the three days was 2,471, inclusive of 227 calories of claret and 
whiskey, of which the caloric value is not undisputed. Of the total 2,471, 
breadstuffs constituted 840 calories, which is equivalent to 334 grams of 
breadstuffs; of the 334 grams of breadstuffs, 200 grams were loaf bread 
and 134 grams were puddings, etc. ; 100 parts of his bread material, there- 
fore, were made up of 60 parts of loaf bread and 40 parts of other farina- 
ceous materials. 



THE UNRESTRICTED DIET OF A SEDENTARY WORKER 

October 3rd, 1916 

1. Early Tea 



8 

1 

3.5 
10 
12 

6.5 



c/o assumed 




Grams 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Calories 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 




8 


1 

80 

4 


60 

5 
100 


Bread 


20 

6 

20 

10 


1.6 

0.05 

0.7 


0.2 
4.0 
0.8 


10.0 

1.6" ■ 

10.0 


49.42 
37.405 
14.41 
41.0 




1 


Butter 




3.6 


Milk 


















2.35 


5.0 


11.0 


142.235 





2. Breakpabt 



1 
80 

4 
50 
12 

6.1 



50 
5 



100 
50 



Bread 

Butter 

Milk 

Bacon 

Egg 

Sugar 

Marmalade. 



75 


6.0 


0.75 


37.6 


185.325 


30 


0.3 


24.0 




224.43 


300 


10.5 


12.0 


15.0 


216.15 


20 


2.0 


10.0 




101.20 


60 


6.0 


6.0 






26 






25.0 


102.50 


60 


0.26 


6.8 


25.0 


103.09 


25.05 


62.8 


102 5 


1.013.995 



3. Lunch 



8 


1 


1 


80 


15 


5 


26 


25 



6% Ale. 



2.5 
100 



Bread.. 
Butter.. 
Meat... 
Cheese. 
Sugar. . 
Wine... 



60 
15 
25 
16 
10 
(150) 


4.8 
0.15 
3.76 
3.76 


0.6 
12.0 
1.25 
3.75 


30.0 

0.375 
10.0 


148.26 
112.215 

27.0 

51.7875 

41.0 


12.46 


17.6 


40.375 


380.262 



(52.5 cals.) 



AmcRNooN Tea 

Nil. 
5. Dinner 



2 


2 

2 

6 

1 

2 

0.1 
80 
25 

1.0 




'50 
40 
20 

2.5 
85 

100 




160 
40 
60 
30 
50 
SO 
5 
10 
26 

(300) 
15 


3.0 

4.0 

9.0 

2.4 

1.0 

1.0 

0.05 

2.5 

2.5 


3.0 

0.8 

3.0 

0.3 

1.0 

0.05 

4.0 

2.5 

0.25 


9.0 

15.6' 
20.0 
10.0 

'6.i25 
21.25 

16.6 


77.1 

23.84 

64.8 

74.13 

95.4 

45.566 

37.405 

34.525 

99.7 

' 61.5 




10 


Fish 




15 


Meat 




8 


Bread 




2 


Pudding 




2 


Potatoes 




1 


Butter 




25 


Cheese 




10 






5% Alo. 


Wine 


(105 cals.) 














26.46 


14.0 


00.5 


613.966 













6. SCPPER 










60% Ale. 


1 


86 


Whiskey 


(30) 
25 


2.6 


6.25 


21.25 


'i99.7 


(105 cals.) 


10 








ToUl 






2.6 


0.26 


21.25 


99.7 






67.8 


99.65 


230.625 


2.270 657 


+Total (262.5) 




Total calories 












2.533.167 





FOOD SITUATIONS IN COUNTRIES AT WAR 757 

THE UNKESTRICTED DIET OF A SEDENTARY WORKER— Continued 

October 4th, 1916 



1. Early Tea 



c/o assumed 



Protein Fat 



1 
3.5 



1 

80 

4 



Carbo- 
hydrate 



50 



5 
100 



Bread . 
Butter. 
Milk.. 
Sugar . 



Grains 



20 

5 

20 

10 



Protein 



1.6 

0.05 

0.7 



Fat 



0.2 
4.0 
0.8 



5.0 



Carbo- 
hydrate 



10.0 



1.0 
10.0 



21.0 



Calories 



49.42 
37.405 
14.41 
41.0 



142.235 



2. Breakfast 



15 

8 

1 

3.5 
10 
12 

0.5 



1 
80 

4 
50 
12 

0.1 



60 
50 



50 
100 



Porridge (20 dry) 

Bread 

Butter 

Milk 

Bacon 

Egg 

Marmalade 

Sugar 



100 


3.0 


1.6 


12.0 


76.38 


60 


4.8 


0.6 


30.0 


148.26 


30 


0.3 


24.0 




224.43 


400 


14.0 


16.0 


20.0 


288.20 


20 


2.0 


10.0 




101.20 


50 


6.0 


6.0 




80.40 


50 


0.25 


0.05 


25.0 


103.99 


25 






25.0 


102.0 


30.35 


58.25 


112.0 


1,125.36 



3. Lunch 



8 
1 


1 

80 

2 

2 


50 
40 


Bread 

Butter 


45 
10 
60 
60 

(150) 


3.6 
0.1 
6.0 
1.2 


0.45 

8.0 

1.2 

1.2 


22.5 
24.6' 


111.195 
74.81 
35.76 

114.48 




10 


Fish 




2 






5% Ale. 


Wine 


(52.5 cals.) 








10.9 


10.85 


46.5 


336.245 





4. Afternoon Tea 



1 
3.5 



1 


50 


80 






100 


4 


5 



Bread . 
Butter 
Sugar . 
Milk.. 



40 


3.2 


0.4 


20.0 


98.84 


10 


0.1 


8.0 




74.81 


5 






5.0 


20.50 


10 


0.35 


0.4 


0.5 


7.205 


3.65 


8.8 


25.5 


201.355 



5. Dinner 



15 


5 




8 


1 


50 


2 


2 


40 


2 


0.1 


20 


1 


80 




25 


25 


2.5 


10 


1 


85 
100 


5% Ale. 







Meat 

Bread . . . 
Pudding . 
Potatoes. 
Butter. . . 
Cheese. . 
Biscuits. . 
Sugar ... 
Wine 



40 


6.0 


2.0 




43.2 


45 


3.6 


0.45 


22.5 


111.195 


80 


1.6 


1.6 


32 


152.640 


80 


1.6 


0.08 


16 


72.904 


5 


0.05 


4.0 




37.405 


10 


2.5 


2.5 


0.25 


34.525 


12.5 


1.25 


0.125 


10.625 


49.850 


I 5 






5.0 


20.500 


(100) 










16.6 


10.755 


86.375 


522.219 



(35 cals.) 



148 



6. Supper 



8 


1 
25 


50 
2.5 


Bread 


15 
20 

(30) 


1.2 
5.0 


0.15 
5.0 


7.5 
0.5 


37.065 
69.050 




25 






50%Alc 


Whiskey 


(105 cals.) 




Total calories = 






6.2 


5.15 


8.0 


106.115 






70.05 


98.805 


299.375 


2,433.529 


+ (192.5) 










2,626.029 





758 



FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 



THE UNRESTRICTED DIET OF A SEDE>rTARY WORKER— Continued 

October .5th, 1916 
1. Early Tea 



c/o assumed 



Protein Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrate 



Grams 



Protein 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrate 



Calories 



8 
1 
3^ 



1 

80 
4 



50 



6 

100 



Bread.. 
Butter. , 
Milk... 
Sugar . . 



30 
5 

30 
5 



2.4 

0.05 

1.05 



0.3 
4.0 
1.2 



15.0 



1.5 
5.0 



74.13 
37.405 
21.615 
20.5 



3.6 



5.5 



21.5 



153.65 



2. Breakfast 



15 
8 


8 

1 

80 

4 

2 

'6.1 


60 
60 

■5' 

106 ■ 
50 


Porridge (20 dry) . . . 
Bread 


100 
60 
15 

400 
65 
10 
SO 


3.0 
4.8 
0.15 
14.0 
6.6 

0.26 


1.6 

0.6 

12.0 

16.0 

1.3 

'o'.s' 


12.0 
30.0 

26.0 ■ 

id.o" ■ 

26.0 


76.38 
148.26 
112.215 
288.2 

38.74 

41.0 
103.99 




1 


Butter 




3.8 


Milk 




10 


Fish 






9ugar 




0.5 


Marmalade 






28.7 


31.55 


97.0 


808.788 













3. 


LCHCM 










8 
15 


1 
5 

0.1 
80 


50 
20' 


Bread 

Meat 


40 

30 

30 

5 

(150) 


3.2 
4.5 
0.6 
0.05 


0.4 
1.5 
0.03 
4.0 


20.0 
6.0 ■ 


98.84 
32.4 
27.339 
37.405 




2 


Potatoes 




1 


Butter 




6% Ale. 


Wine 


(52.5 cals. 








8.35 


5.93 


26.0 


195.984 











4 


Afternoon Tea 








3.5 


4 


5 
100 


Milk 


16 
5 


0.825 


0.6 


0.76 
6.0 


10.8075 
20.5 






















0.526 0.6 


5.75 


31.3075 





6. Dinner 



2 
16 

8 

2 

2 
26 

1 

0.5 
8% Ale. 



2 


6 


5 




1 


50 


0.1 


20 


2 


40 


25 


2.5 


80 




0.1 


50 



Soup . . . . 
Meat.... 
Bread... 
PotatoeBc 
Pudding, 
CheeBc. . 
Butter... 

Jam 

Wine.... 



200 


4.0 


4.0 


85 


12.75 


4.25 


eo 


4.8 


0.6 


eo 


1.2 


0.06 


80 


1.6 


1.6 


15 


3.76 


3.75 


10 


0.1 


8.0 


20 


0.1 


0.02 


(200) 






28.3 


22.28 



12.0 

30.6 " 
12.0 
32.0 
0.876 

16.0 " 



96.375 



102.8 

91.8 
148.26 

64.678 
152.64 . 

61.7875 

74.81 

41.596 



718.3716 



(70 cals.) 











6. 


Sdppkb 










50% Ale 
10 


1 


85 


Whiskey 


(30) 
30 


3.6' 


olsi 


25.is 


119.64 


(105 cals.) 


Biscuits 






ToUl 

ToUl calories - 






72.875 


66.10 


272.126 


2,027.738 


+(227.6:cals.) 










2,255.238 





ScifMABT 





Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drates 


Calories 


Calories 
(Ale.) 


October 3rd 


67.8 
70 05 
72.375 


90.55 

98.805 

66.16 


281.625 
299 375 
272.125 


2,270.657 
2,433.529 
2,027.738 


262.5 


October 4th 


192.5 


October 5th 


227.5 






Total for 3 days 


210.225 
70.076 


255.515 
85.1717 


852.125 
284.0417 


6,731.924 
2.243.975 


682.5 




227.5 








2,471.478 





USE OF CEKTAIN FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 759 

Of course, Dr. Waller's case was not representative. He was 60 years 
of age, weighed 190 pounds, and belonged to the class of sedentary- 
workers whose caloric requirements are considerably lower than those of 
the manual worker. Still it is a matter for some surprise that his calories 
should be as low as 2,244. It is interesting to note that Waller in his 
^'Text-book of Physiology" has given 3,000 as the average calorie re- 
quirement per working man per day for food as eaten, and that this should 
have as its foundation 1 pound of bread per day. 

USE OF CERTAIN FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 

Bread and Cereal Foods. — With regard to the value of bread as a staple 
diet, it is instructive 'to note that the ordinary prison diet in an English 
jail, adopted in 1889, contains 3,040 calories, of which the bread, inclusive 
of flour and oatmeal, amounts to 2,378 calories, of which 1,715 calories 
are afforded by 22 ounces per day of actual bread. On this diet it was 
found that 82 per cent of the prisoners gained weight, while 18 per cent 
lost weight. This brings us to the question of bread and its value as a 
food. 

One of the most valuable, perhaps the most valuable, lesson that the 
war has taught us, or rather has emphasized, is that highly milled bread 
is less nutritious than whole-meal bread. It is now known that the con- 
sumption of cereals from which the husks have been removed, when used 
as a sole or main means of nutriment, is responsible for disease.^ Beri- 
beri, pellagra, scurvy and probably rickets have all been traced more or 
less to this cause. Bread made from highly milled flour when constituting 
but a part of the diet, is not directly responsible for diseased conditions, 
but from the outlook of health is not to be recommended. It tends to con- 
stipation, because it requires little mastication and also requires little ex- 
ercise by the organs of digestion; it is smooth and does riot irritate the 
digestive organs, or induce internal secretions to exertion, and conse- 
quently it is apt to take an undue time for assimilation and absorption, 
and for its waste products to pass through the intestinal tract. Moreover, 
according to the most recent views, the very part of the cereal that is 
milled or taken away is that which contains food elements which are 
indispensable for growth and the maintenance of life. These have been 
termed "accessory diet factors" or "vitamines." They may be conceived 
of as stimulating certain physiological processes and as essential to cer- 
tain functions. 



See also Volume II, Chapter VIII; Volume III, Chapter XVII. 



760 FOOD eco:nomics in war 

As Mendel (5) has pointed out, the lubricant is quite as important to 
a machine as the energy-furnishing fuel. In a similar way these diet ac- 
cessories or "vitamines" may possess peculiar usefulness. Some of them 
are believed to be easily impaired by heat ; in the language of the chem- 
ist, they may be thermolabile. Hence the use of heat for preserving or 
sterilizing foods suggests new difficulties. They may be lost in the wastes 
of the modern technical processes, as in the milling of cereals. Wheat, 
for example, by modern milling is denuded of its pericarp. A beauti- 
fully smooth white flour results which has been deprived of a considerable 
amount of its nutritive virtues and is hardly suitable as food for a human 
being, supplied with a strong jaw and teeth intended to be employed in 
mastication. 

The food orders in Great Britain, promulgated chiefly with the view 
of economizing food, although, of course, distasteful to the mass of the 
population, have proved with regard to the preparation of bread, a bless- 
ing in disguise. Bread in all countries, and in Great Britain in particu- 
lar, is the chief means of sustenance of the working classes, and it is 
somewhat curious that the necessities of war should have brought into 
force a measure which, regarded from the public health standpoint, is as 
important as any measures which have been brought forward in modern 
times. Wlieat, of all the cereals used for the manufacture of bread, is, 
perhaps, the most nutritious. At any rate, it has the most delicate flavor, 
it contains a large amount of gluten, and for making bread is, on the 
whole, the most popular product of the earth. In addition, wheaten 
flour, unlike the flour of other cereals, is readily kneadable, and can 
therefore be made into bread, macaroni, vermicelli, pastry, and all kinds 
of puddings and cakes. 

The first food orders issued in England called for the extraction of 
Tfi per cent from the total grain ; a few weeks later the extraction of a 
further 5 per cent was ordered; and it may be said that, after the early 
summer of 1917, the wheaten bread consumed in Great Britain was to 
all intents and purposes whole-grain bread. An option, however, was 
given to millers to mix with the wheat, flour derived from barley, maize, 
rice or oats, to the extent of 10 per cent. This meant that the miller need 
not mill his wheat further than the original allowance of 76 per cent, 
provided he added a proportion of other flours. It is possible to add to 
flours rich in gluten a proportion of starch, as for example, flour made 
from corn, without materially reducing the nitrogen value when compared 
with a low-grade wheaten flour. The energy value of a loaf from such 
flour would be quite high, while its nourishing properties would be little 



USE OF CERTAIN FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 761 

impaired. Corn flour and rice, however, would somewhat detract from 
its protein value, while barley and oats would add proteins and fat. The 
loaf containing an addition of barley and oats would, from a dietetic point 
of view, likely enough, have a superior value to the loaf made with a 
similar proportion of corn or rice. 

To those who hold that bread is primarily eaten not so much as a 
source of protein, but as an easily digestible, attractive form of starch, it 
matters little which flour is employed. Obviously, however, in war time, 
the question of cost is predominant and the wheat substitutes can be used 
for no good purpose unless they are cheaper than wheat flour itself. It 
may be pointed out that in America, from this standpoint, corn particu- 
larly commends itself as a food. Apart from this point, the physical 
qualities of a loaf of bread must be considered, texture for one thing being 
an important property. The characteristics which formerly chiefly com- 
mended a loaf of wheaten bread were that it was light and spongy, easily 
masticated and digestible. It goes without saying that the lumpy, sodden 
loaf is unattractive and indigestible, and its food value may be largely 
discounted owing to its causing gastric troubles. On the other hand, 
while a loaf should be light, it is an advantage that it should be so baked 
that externally it is hard and crusty, affording plenty of work for the 
jaws, teeth and salivary glands. 

Nearly all the vegetable foods which invite mastication are crusty 
bread, dry toast, hard biscuits, salads, nuts and apples. Our staple vege- 
table food — wheaten bread — is almost invariably eaten in a spongy form. 
The loaves are shaped so as to afford a minimum of surface for crust, and 
are lightly baked so that the crust shall be as thin as possible. In fact, 
the prejudice that the majority of people have against crust is such that 
the most crusty loaves, those which have rested on the floor and against 
the sides of the oven, fetch a lower price than the others. 

The more thoroughly a farinaceous food, as bread, is chewed, the 
more intimately will it be mixed with the saliva, and the more efficiently 
is it likely to be digested. It is certain, furthermore, that when food is 
well digested, it will go further, and less of it will be required than when 
it is not well digested. Thus, a piece of crusty bread well masticated 
will go a longer way to satisfy the appetite and the nutritive requirements 
of the system than an equivalent of pudding or of some of the soft mushy 
food which has such a vogue in this country. While by no means a dis- 
ciple of Fletcher, who unduly exalts the merits of mastication, and who 
advocates its practice to absurd lengths, the author is convinced that it 
would be in the best interests of the health of the community at large if 



762 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

more mastication were practiced, particularly with regard to the carbo- 
hydrates — in short, if less soft food were eaten. 

The best way to secure adequate mastication is to select foods which 
invite or even compel it. It is chiefly in regard to wheateu flour, oatmeal 
and rice that reform is most needed. Many people in England, at the 
time of writing, are wondering, now that war bread has made its appear- 
ance, why they ever preferred the bread made from highly milled "flour. 
The ideal loaf of wheaten bread from the nutritive standpoint is the 
crusty one made from whole-meal, which needs more mastication than 
the spongy loaf, promotes good digestion, excites peristaltic action, and, 
above all, contains those food elements known as vitamines, which stimu- 
late certain physiological processes and are essential to the perfect well- 
being of the organism as a whole. 

Of other cereal foods than wheat, oats in the form of oatmeal, corn 
and rice occupy the first places. From the aspect of protein value, oat- 
meal is the most nutritious, containing as it does more protein than wheat 
and considerably more fat. Rice is less nutritious than wheat or oats, 
and inasmuch as it is polished rice which is imported, and which, eaten 
solely, constitutes the deficiency diet par excellence, its employment as a 
staple of diet is not indicated. 

With regard to oatmeal as a war food, it may be recommended both 
on the grounds of economy and nutritive properties. It is in itself a 
valuable food, but in the form of porridge does not conduce to mastica- 
tion. Aloreover, the oatmeal flour sold nowadays is made from oats which 
have been denuded of their husks, and is, when made into porridge, an 
especially soft and pappy article (ff diet. The good, coarse Scotch oat- 
meal porridge of yore, which required a certain amount of mastication, 
and which contained the husks of grain in which were the vitamines, is 
no longer seen in this country. In its place is offered a smooth bland sub- 
stance, wholly devoid of the irritating, health-giving elements referred to 
and affording not the slightest exercise to the jaws, teeth or the salivary 
glands. From the point of view of mastication, oatmeal biscuits are pref- 
erable to oatmeal porridge, but the latter is so popular and valuable a 
food that it may be pemiiti^ed in war time with the proviso that it is made 
from whole-meal and that it is subjected to some sort of chewing. 

While the good influence of protein consumption on health may have 
l)een exaggerated, and while the need for a large protein intake may have 
hceii overestimated, it is still allowed on all hands that a certain amount 
of protein is necessary for the maintenance of the bodily powers at a high 
standard. Many even hold that a considerable protein intake is benefi- 



USE OF CERTAIN FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 763 

cial, and the author is one of these. It must be remembered that the pro- 
tein molecule is composed of a group of dissimilar chemical units, many 
of which appear to be indispensable for the nutritive functions. As the 
animal body cannot construct all of these synthetically, it is dependent 
for a supply thereof upon the diet. The proteins of foods commonly 
eaten provide these essential units in unlike yields. Accordingly, the 
view is gaining ground that an adequate ration must furnish these units 
in amounts sufficient quantitatively and qualitatively. 

Corn possesses satisfactory nutritive properties in many directions, 
but is somewhat lacking in its protein contents, or perhaps it would be 
more correct to say that corn and the by-products of the corn kernel are 
considered as a result of laboratory analysis, inadequate for good feeding 
purposes unless they are supplemented by other protein-containing food. 
It has been suggested by scientific authorities that the addition of supple- 
mentary proteins — perhaps those which are present in dried milk prod- 
ucts — might render such a food as corn, which in this country is plentiful 
and inexpensive, but to some extent possibly inefficient from the protein 
standpoint, considerably more valuable as a staple article of diet. By 
many it is argued, however, that the slight lack of protein in corn, com- 
pared with wheat and oats, detracts little if any from its nutritive value. 
Practical experience has demonstrated that it is a wholesome food, and, 
after all, it is experience that is, taking everything into consideration, the 
surest guide. 

According to Dr. Haven Emerson, Health Commissioner of New 
York, corn meal afforded the same amount of nourishment as wheat flour 
and was, at any rate, in April, 1917, 25 per cent cheaper. No doubt, 
from several points of view this statement is correct, and corn meal is a 
nourishing form of food and one considered from the outlook of food 
economies in war time, to be advocated as a staple diet. Yet, as in the 
case of wheat, oats and rice, in fact of all cereals, corn deprived of its 
husks is a less nutritive aliment by far than when these are allowed to 
remain. More than a strong suspicion has been aroused, approaching 
indeed conviction, by the researches of Voegtlin and others, that pellagra 
is a deficiency disease, and that its prevalence in the Southern States is 
largely if not entirely owing to the manner in which corn, which is the 
staple diet of the population, is milled. It is, then, as obvious in the 
instance of corn as in that of rice, wheat, oats and other cereals, that it 
should not be highly milled in order to obtain the greatest nutritive 
benefit from its consumption. The war has taught and emphasized the 
point that all cereals regarded from the health and economical aspects 



764 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

should be so milled or prepared for human consumption that the coarser 
parts should be left for reasons which have been fully explained in differ- 
ent portions of this work. 

A great advantage possessed by corn as a food is that it is pleasant 
to the palate and that it may be cooked and prepared in a variety of ways, 
while above all it is cheap. Our readers may be reminded of the fact that 
during the Civil War soldiers subsisted for considerable periods of time 
almost wholly upon corn, employing it even as a vehicle for making a 
substitute for coffee. 

Potatoes. — It is hardly necessary to dwell upon the fact that potatoes 
are factors of much importance in war-time feeding. A bountiful potato 
crop probably saved Germany at a very critical period. Potatoes, how- 
ever, do not provide such reliable crops as the cereals, and if a potato 
crop fails, it usually fails wholly. It may be pointed out that, as a rule, 
there is gross waste in the preparation of potatoes for food. There is no 
need — indeed, in war time, the custom should be strongly discountenanced 
if not prohibited — of peeling potatoes before cooking them. A useful 
part of the potato is removed with the skin, and the majority of people 
can eat potato skin with advantage. Special care should be taken not to 
waste the highly nutritious potato. Potato bread is a pleasant and sat- 
isfying food, and it is a good plan to make it of cooked potatoes which 
might otherwise be wasted. 

Milk. — The question of milk is a very obtrusive one in war time. It 
has become almost an article of faith that a large supply of milk is indis- 
pensable to the maintenance of good health, and that, if a milk supply 
failed wholly or in part, the consequences would be disastrous. In time 
of war, foodstuffs and feeding materials must be economized. To find 
feeding material sufficient to maintain cows in such a condition that they 
will provide a good supply of milk, implies a great deal of labor and also 
the importation of an amount of feeding material which is inconvenient 
when not impossible under war conditions. It is assuredly true that to 
conserve infant life, a certain supply of cow's milk is necessary, that is, 
in the existing state of affairs, when so many women do not suckle their 
offspring. But that, after the baby age is passed, milk is an absolutely 
essential article of diet is strongly combated by many authorities. Camp- 
bell (6) went so far as to declare that the child, as distinguished from the 
babe, does not need milk and would not suffer greatly if the supply of 
dairy milk suddenly failed. He argued, in the first place, that milk, 
affording as it does a peculiarly favorable soil for the growth of disease 
germs, has carried disease and death to hecatombs of children. It has 



USE OF CEKTAIN FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 765 

further acted injuriously by favoring the consumption of soft, pappy 
foods. It is obvious that the infant, like the young of other mammals, 
requires milk for the first period of its life, and that the proper milk for 
it is that of its own mother. When this source of supply fails or is not 
available, as so frequently occurs in these days, resort must be had to the 
milk of other animals, cows or goats. This has not proved an unmixed 
blessing, but the question has been so thoroughly covered in Volume II, 
Chapter XV, and Volume III, Chapter XXIV, that it would be super- 
fluous to lay further stress on this phase of the matter. 

According to Campbell, while the infant needs milk of some kind 
during the first nine or ten months of life, it does not need any after that 
period. Why should the young of man any more than the young of other 
mammals require milk after it has left the breast ? It is only since man 
first domesticated the cow and goat — and this from the point of view of 
his evolution was but as yesterday — that he has been svipplied with any 
milk other than human, and it is absurd to suppose that before that time 
his health suffered from the lack of cow's or goat's milk. The pre-agri- 
cultural tribes to this day are without any, and until civilized man de- 
teriorated them by the introduction of alcohol and European vices, they 
were magnificent physical specimens of manhood. 

The argument is not made that dairy milk is a useless food for man, 
but merely that it is not essential to him after the nursing period. Its 
chief value to the human race is as a source of butter and cheese, two 
highly concentrated and agreeable foods, admitting of prolonged storage, 
as not only cheese but salt butter may be kept for many months. Un- 
doubtedly cheese is a very valuable form of food in war time, on account 
of the large amount of protein that it contains. The manufacture of milk 
into butter and cheese rather than its use in the form of milk, especially 
into cheese, is prompted by considerations of health and economy alike. 

Sugar. — Another article of food which has given rise to violent and 
persistent discussion, and the use of which has been the most vexed ques- 
tion of all with regard to food economics in Great Britain and Germany, 
is sugar. In Germany sugar was consumed in immense quantities, 
mainly, perhaps, because that country produced it on the largest scale. 
Now so short is the supply there that, as noted previously, saccharin has 
been substituted. It was not long ago that sugar was lauded as an essen- 
tial. Now neither scientific men nor practical observers speak so de- 
cidedly in favor of sugar as a necessary ingredient or part of a diet. 
Mendel says that, although sucrose, the form in which it is generally used, 
has a considerable fuel value in the organism, its dietary use is primarily 



766 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

dictated by considerations of flavor. Opinions are occasionally divided 
as to the place of this sngar in the dietary. Mendel is of the opinion that 
the artificially colored white sngar has nothing except a false standard to 
recommend it in place of the natural cream-colored sugar. It will be ob- 
served that Mendel appears sceptical as to white sugar being of any great 
nutritive value, but does not comment on the cream-colored product. 

Campbell, referred to above, propounded as iconoclastic opinions with 
regard to the food value of sugar as he propounded concerning milk. He 
stated that we could get on very well without sugar at all. Primitive man 
had none but the limited quantity furnished by wild honey. War prices 
are exorbitantly high, and it consequently behooves everyone to be eco- 
nomical. He maintained that all money spent on candy is worse than 
wasted, and recommended that none should be so spent, that the money 
saved in this way should be loaned to the state, and that the multitude 
of persons engaged in the sweet industry should be transferred to occupa- 
tions more profitable to the country. 

^More than one well-known physiological authority has stated that 
sugar is not a natural food, inasmuch as the human economy is con- 
structed to convert carbohydrate, e.g., starch, which they claim to be a 
natural foodstuff, into sugar. It is certain that if sugar were tasteless 
or not sweet, it would not be so popular as it is, and thus it must rank as 
a condiment as well as a food. It is interesting to recall that sugar was 
scarcely a commercial commodity a little over a century ago, and that 
before that our ancestors got on very well without it, while, as a matter 
of fact, a big section of the community consumes nowadays very little or 
none of it. The history of starch in the dietary, on the other hand, goes 
back to the very beginning of things, and there was a supply of starches 
long before sugar was thought of in its present form. 

Custom and cheapness have brought sugar into wide use, but in time 
of war its employment in many extraneous and totally unnecessary ways 
should be prohibited. After all, diet is largely ruled by custom, and war 
has gone to show that many customary articles of food which were con- 
sidered essential by the public cannot only be dispensed with, but be dis- 
pensed with to the benefit of the general health. 

Alcohol in War Economics — The war in Europe has had a great effect 
on the consumption of alcohol. It need hardly be pointed out that in the 
economics of war the question of alcohol stands out most prominently. 
The value of alcohol as a food or even as a fuel may be dismissed as 
trivial in comparison with the harm that it does, and the waste of men 
and food and feeding material in its manufacture. 



USE OF CERTAIN FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 767 

The food or fuel value of alcohol is so slight as to be a negligible quan- 
tity. It has been established that about one ounce of absolute alcohol 
is the limit which can be burned up in the body within a period of twenty- 
four hours without paralyzing or narcotic effect, and without the appear- 
ance of unchanged alcohol in the excreta, and one ounce of alcohol sup- 
plies about as much fuel as one ounce of margarin, 200 calories. Now 
one ounce of alcohol costs in the form of cheap spirit not more than four 
cents; in the form of beer less; in the form of heavy wines, 8 to 12 cents; 
in the form of light wine, 24 cents ; while to these prices must be added 
some 40 or 50 per cent during war time. One ounce of margarin costs 
about 2 cents.. Therefore, even if alcohol is regarded as a food, it is an 
extremely wasteful and expensive one. 

Perhaps the sudden withdrawal of alcohol in any form from those with 
whom its use has been habitual may be followed by injurious effects on 
muscular and nervous energy. It is conceivable that men who for years 
have been accustomed to taking some form of alcoholic beverage as a part 
of their diet after a hard day's labor, might be affected by its sudden and 
complete withdrawal. Possibly in any regulations drawn up for the re- 
striction or prohibition of the manufacture or sale of alcohol, it might 
be deemed wise to make allowance for the cases of those in whom total 
abstinence produces ill effects. There are other difficulties in the way of 
enforcing prohibition, such as the probable development of an illicit traffic 
in alcohol and the introduction of substitutes for alcohol which might be 
infinitely more detrimental to public health and order. 

When all is said that can be said in favor of alcohol and of the dis- 
advantages of its total withdrawal, these will weigh almost as nothing 
against the obvious manifest advantages of prohibition as a war-time 
measure. When food is scarce and the food situation serious, the question 
of the control of the liquor traffic becomes insistent from the point of view 
of national efficiency. To this argument may be added the further con- 
tention that the loss of energy value involved in the conversion of the 
carbohydrate of grain and sugar into alcohol represents in itself a serious 
leakage in food supplies. It must be remembered that there is an in- 
evitable loss of energy in the conversion of these more highly organized 
bodies into the simpler alcohol ; only some 60 per cent of the energy in 
the barley grain or the potato flour remains in the resulting beer or spirit. 
In itself brewing or distilling is a gross waste of food products. 

By the enforcement of total abstinence at a stroke, the consumption 
of the thousands of tons of grain employed in the manufacture of beer 
and spirits would be saved, a vast amount of energy now employed in 



768 



FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 



brewery, distillery and saloons would be diverted into more profitable 
channels, and the health and morals of the nation would be raised. By 
the cessation of the manufacture of alcohol, and the utilization of its raw 
materials, especially of potatoes and grain, as immediate sources of food 
supply, the strain of providing the population with nutriment will be, to 
that extent, relieved. 

For industrial and scientific purposes, alcohol is valuable, and to sup- 
ply the needs in this direction, the manufacture, perhaps, of a limited 
amount should be permitted. But so far as beverage is concerned, the 
war has taught the lesson that human eificiency can be maintained at a 
higher standard without alcohol than with it. 

The Food Situation in the United States. — ^More food is produced in this 
country than in any one country of the world, and yet at the present time 
there is a food shortage. This shortage is due to many causes: (a) Food 
production has not kept pace with the growth of population and has been 
giving alarm to agricultural experts for several years. During the past 
three decades Americans have been forsaking the farms for city life, and 
as a consequence agricultural labor has been becoming more and more 
difficult to obtain. Thus the food problem has been greatly hampered by 
the lack of agricultural workers, and this has been especially noticeable 
since the outbreak of the great European War, (h) The opportunity for 
securing employment in manufacturing establishments, the consequent 
high rate of wages and the inducements of city life have enticed many 
agricultural workers to forsake the farm, which has seriously interfered 
with the necessary labor for agricultural work and has added much to 
the serious phases of agricultural pursuits. 

Since 1884 the production of wheat in this country has dropped a 
very considerable extent, due to the inability of the farmer to procure the 
necessary help. Farmers are now killing their live stock and as a conse- 



CEREAL PRODUCTION OF THE UNITED STATES IN 1915 



Cereal 


Acreage 


Bushels 


Corn 


108,321,000 

59,898,000 

40,780,000 

7,565,000 

2,856,000 

806,000 

694,000 


3,054,535,000 


Wheat 


1,011,505,000 


Oats 


1,540,362,000 


Barley 


237,009,000 


Rye 


49,190,000 


Buckwheat 


15,769,000 


Rice 


65,691,700 







USE OF CEKTAIX FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 769 

qiience supplies of meat in cold storage liaA^e fallen off enormously. The 
high prices of all kinds of foodstuff since the beginning of the European 
War, have resulted in a very marked increase in the export of all food- 
stuff, which unfortunately does not signify an increased ability to produce 
food, but on the other hand means rather that we are depleting our exist- 
ing stock of supplies. 

In 1916, harvest conditions in the United States were much below 
normal production and, in short, it has been plainly demonstrated that our 
reserves in cereal grains are being rapidly exhausted. It has been com- 
puted that our Allies' cereal crop this year has shrunk to about 525,- 
000,000 bushels below normal, and if consumption in the allied coun- 
tries is to be maintained at or near normal no less than 1,250,000 bushels 
of grain must be exported by the United States. The cattle and hogs in 
the allied countries are diminished in number by something like 30,- 
000,000 head, and these reductions will continue with increasing severity 
for the reason that animals must be slaughtered on account of shortage 
in food supplies. We have not only to feed the people of our own coun- 
try, but we are also expected to make up the food deficiency of our 
Allies, and thus the burden of the war, so far as supplying subsistence 
to the Allied armies is concerned, falls most heavily on the United 
States. 

If this war is to be won by our Allies, food must be strictly conserved 
by the American people. We shall consider briefly the food problem from 
an economic viewpoint. It may be safely said that our own people, up 
to the present time, seem to have failed to realize adequately the all- 
important role that food will play in this war and there is grave danger 
'in the fact that the necessity for economy in diet is not sufficiently appreci- 
ated. It has been pointed out in a previous section of this chapter, that 
under the compelling stress of circumstances, the nations at war in 
Europe have restricted and regulated the consumption of food, and 
avoided waste in every possible way, and, moreover, that up to a certain 
point, this has been done with correspondingly decided benefit to the 
public health. As a matter of fact, economy in diet in this country, if 
arranged on sensible and scientific principles, should be attended with 
little or no injurious effects on the health of the population. Such econ- 
omy may be uncomfortable for a time, but man is extraordinarily adapt- 
able, and in a short time, provided he gets a sufficient quantity of fat and 
energy-producing foods in well-balanced proportions to keep the human 
machine working, it does not matter much whether his subsistence is 
derived mainly from the vegetable or animal kingdom. As previously 



770 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

pointed out in this work Americans are large meat eaters but so were 
the Germans and British before the war. 

The Germans and, to a lesser extent, the British, have denied them- 
selves meat with a good deal of philosophy and with benefit rather than 
harmful results. Educational propaganda with regard to food economy in 
this country should not only dwell on the need for economy and self- 
denial, but should lay special stress upon the point that comparative de- 
privation of meat and the substitution of nutritious articles of food for 
those to which the population has by long use become accustomed, invokes 
no special hardships, while in many instances a restricted diet may be 
beneficial. 

In the first place the foodstuffs exported by us must be of a most con- 
centrated kind, as for example, wheat, beef, pork, dairy products, fats 
and sugar. Although we have a surplus of potatoes, vegetables, fish and 
poultry, these, with the exception of vegetables in dehydrated form, do 
not lend themselves to shipment. 

As said before, the wheat supply is short and the food administrator 
has requested the population of this country to eat corn bread and conserve 
the wheat for our Allies. Corn meal, when properly prepared, can be 
made as nutritious, as wholesome, and as palatable as wheat bread. We 
are the largest corn growing nation in the world and our people, unlike 
the Frenchmen and Englishmen, are not averse to eating corn bread. 
Accordingly the first logical step in adapting our food supplies and con- 
sumption to the needs of our Allies is to substitute, as far as possible, corn 
for wheat on our own tables. Furthermore, when wheat bread is placed 
upon the table it should be baked from whole wheat meal. The bread 
on which our sturdy grandsires throve was made from the whole wheat 
berry and the ingenuity of man has never devised a more wholesome, more 
palatable nor more nutritious bread than that made from the whole wheat 
grain. This point has been previously dwelt upon in other portions of 
this work. The reasons why whole wheat flour should be used are as fol- 
lows: When properly made and baked, bread made from whole wheat 
flour is more nutritive and digestible than bread made from highly milled 
and finely bolted white flour; besides it contains all of the cereal salts 
(1.75 per cent), while highly bolted white flour is deficient in cereal salts 
(only .44 per cent). Moreover, the modem patent roller process flour 
is deficient in vitamines, while the whole wheat flour contains all of the 
vitamines which nature grew into the wheat berry. 

Graham Lusk, who has devoted much research to the subject of scien- 
tific nutrition, advocates the consumption of graham (whole wheat) bread. 



USE OF CERTAIN FOODSTUFFS IN WAR 771 

and several authorities on nutrition, both in this country and in Europe, 
are enthusiastic over the nutritive properties of whole wheat bread. In 
fact, just a few months ago an edict went forth in Great Britain that all 
flour should be ground from the whole wheat grain. A feature in favor 
of whole wheat meal is that bread made from it requires more mastication 
and exerts a considerably more laxative effect than bread made from 
highly bolted patent roller process flour which predisposes to constipation 
and intestinal stasis, complaints which are widely prevalent in this coun- 
try. However, the advantages of whole wheat bread have been sufficiently 
emphasized. 

The question of protein consumption has given rise to considerable 
discussion, or, perhaps, it is more correct to say that the discussion has 
hinged on the point as to which form of protein should be taken as food. 
There is virtually no difference of opinion with regard to the need of 
protein. To a greater or lesser extent, it is known, that on the whole, 
more protein in the form of meat is eaten than is physiologically required. 
It certainly is a fact that owing to the false teaching and long held beliefs 
of the strengthening effects of meat, too much meat is consumed by both 
young and old with harmful results to both. This subject has been previ- 
ously considered and we will not enter into a dissertation here regarding 
protein as a food ; it will suffice to say that the protein of meat can be re- 
placed by vegetable protein, such as that from the legumes, whole wheat 
flour, and various vegetables. These are cheaper by far, more easily and 
economically produced, and will maintain the body at a high standard of 
efficiency and health; therefore, the next step in the direction of food 
economy is to substitute, as far as possible, protein from the vegetable 
kingdom. Moreover, fish can be largely used as a substitute for meat and 
we have fish in great abundance. 

Unfortunately the fat content of a well-balanced ration is not trans- 
mutable. No substitute can be offered in the place of fats, but some very 
useful advice can be tendered. A large reduction in the ordinary con- 
sumption of fat by the well-to-do citizen will be helpful to the nation and 
to the individual. Graham Lusk, writing in the Scientific Monthly, 
October, 1917, draws attention to the fact that it is not at all difficult 
to reduce the body weight by reducing the consumption of fats and 
starches and cutting down the energy value of their ration from 2,800 
calories to about 2,200 calories. The fuel foods for the human machine 
are principally made from wheat, corn, rice and the sugar cane. 

The average American consumes more sugar than is necessary or 
beneficial and if we are to be able to export any sugar to our Allies the 



772 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAE 

per capita consumption must be reduced in this country. This is one 
aspect of the food situation in this country which has not been met as it 
should have been met. 

The author, at the outbreak of the war, suggested that the use of 
grains for the manufacture of intoxicating beverages should be stopped. 
The grain that is now being used for the manufacture of intoxicating 
drinks, if employed for human consumption or for fodder for animals, 
would relieve the present stress to an unbelievable degree. The employeeo 
thrown out of work by prohibition would soon find other spheres of human 
endeavor in which they would be much more useful to the community. 
The gi'eatest source, perhaps, for the inflation of the prices of foodstuifs 
is the present manipulation of the food markets by speculation. And 
another point in the present high cost of living and bad food preparation 
is a want of knowledge in the culinary department. For a couple of 
decades past the science of cookery has not been taught in the home as it 
should be, and as a result the daughters, with the exception of a few who 
have been trained in domestic science schools, are unacquainted with the 
uses of the culinary utensils of the modern household. 

Lusk, referred to previously, formulates the following propositions, 
which are so apropos to the subject that no. excuse for quoting them is 
necessary: "(a) Eat corn bread and save the wheat for France and our 
other Allies; (h) Let no family of five persons buy meat until it has 
bought three quarts of milk ; (c) Save the cream and butter and eat vege- 
table oils and oleomargarin ; (d) Eat meat sparingly, rich and poor, 
laborer and indolent alike; {e) Be a prohibitionist for the j)eriod of the 
war; (/) Save everything that can be used for food, because food is 
precious; (g) Finally, remember that the whole world is seeking for 
food with which to work and although our wheat crop is short, still we 
are the nation most richly endowed with fuel food. It remains to be 
seen whether we have the intelligence to fitly utilize for the welfare of 
•mankind the resources which God and nature have placed in our hands." 

The only solution of the food problem is to eat more of the foods which 
can be easily raised and less of those which are so urgently needed by our 
Allies. As our food dictator has stated, "There is no real conservation 
without reduction in consumption, and the elimination of personal waste." 

If the people of this country will heartily cooi)erate with the food 
conservator in the endeavor to conserve the food supply, and will endure 
for a while some discomfort, there will be no difficulty regarding the food 
problem. Sufficient food can be produced to keep the population supplied 
with a well-balanced dietary with sufficient to export for the Allies. The 



SUMMARY 773 

case of Germany has plainly demonstrated this fact, but in this country 
the populace must be educated with respect to scientific nutrition and 
must come to realize that personal selfishness must be subordinated to the 
national interest. 

SUMMARY 

As remarked in the introductory sentences of this chapter, the author 
is of the opinion that in a work on diet, notice should be taken of the food 
question in war, and that an attempt should be made to extract whatever 
lessons in this direction might seem apposite. 

The conclusions to be drawn as the result of this survey — for it can 
hardly be termed a close study — are: That the limitation of food conse- 
quent upon a short supply brought about by war conditions is beneficial 
to a certain proportion of the population, further demonstrating the fact 
that in the ordinary way the majority of persons eat more than their phys- 
iological requirements call for. On the other hand, a restricted food sup- 
ply presses heavily on those least able to bear the pressure, that is, on those 
who, on account of the greatly enhanced price of food, are unable to obtain 
the kind of diet to which they are accustomed and indeed suffer from a 
paucity of nutritive elements. It seems to have been proven that over- 
feeding is injurious, but that underfeeding is worse. 

So far as the different essential constituents of the food are concerned, 
at the time of writing it is impossible to speak dogmatically. It appears 
to have been demonstrated that more protein is generally eaten than is 
needed, and not enough fat. The Germans, according to Taylor, suffered 
from the limitation of fat in their diet, and it may be stated that fat is 
a more important factor in the promotion of physical efficiency than hith- 
erto has been believed. One of the chief lessons learned from the war 
so far has been the great economical and nutritive value of whole-grain 
bread. The proven dietetic value of whole-grain bread, and of cereals 
from which the husks have not been removed, suggests the reflection that 
possibly the value of food, after all, depends no more on its protein, fat 
or carbohydrate content, as the case may be, than on the possession of those 
food elements termed vitamines. Certain it is that when these are absent, 
ill health and disease are generally the sequence. 

In this chapter some opinions have been expressed with regard to milk 
which do not seem to be in accord with the views of authorities. The opin- 
ions propoimded here, while not entirely those of the author, still are his 
to this extent, that he does believe that milk jier se is not an indispensable 
article of diet except for infants, and that the best use that can be made 

149 



774 FOOD ECONOMICS IN WAR 

of milk, in war time at any rate, is its conversion into cheese, one of the 
most wholesome and nutritive foods known. A good hunch of crusty 
bread, with butter and cheese or fat bacon, followed by a little raw fruit, 
such as an apple, constitutes a well-balanced meal. 

It has been pointed out that the question of sugar is a vexed one. In 
England it appears to have been concluded that its dietetic virtues have 
been exaggerated, and that in war time its consumption, with great benefit 
to all concerned, might be very considerably restricted. With regard to 
the liquor traffic in war time, there is and should be very little difference 
of opinion. The grain, potatoes, etc., that are employed in the manufac- 
ture of alcohol in war time should be utilized for feeding men and animals 
and in every respect the manufacture of alcohol to be used as a beverage 
should be restricted to a minimum or wholly interdicted. 

Finally, there are at least four ways of reducing the consumption of 
food : 1. By preparing the food in the most economical way. 2. By mini- 
mizing waste. 3. By selecting the right kinds of food and in the right 
proportions. 4. By limiting to a sufficiency the quantity of food con- 
sumed. 

REFERENCES 

1. Taylor, A. E. Saturday Evening Post, F«b. 17, 1917. 

2. . Ibid., Apr. 14, 1917. 

3. British Medical Journal, Feb. 17, 1917. 

4. Wallek, a. D. Lancet, Feb. 17, 1917, p. 273. 

5. Mendel. Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutri- 

tion. 

6. Campbell. Lancet, Apr. 1, 1916. 



INDEX 



Absorption, of end products of protein di- 
gestion, ill-effects of, 198. 
Acid-forming and base-forming elements, 

314. 
Acid-forming elements of diet, 357. 
Acidosis, due to chronic intestinal stasis, 

463. 
Acne, diet in, 467. 
Aerophagy, treatment of, 122. 
Akoria, 121. 

Albumin, purin-free diet to supply, 336. 
Albumins, coagulation point of, 57. 
Albumin water, preparation of, 580. 

egg, preparation of, 581. 
Albuminized lemonade, preparation of, 

579. 
Albuminized milk, preparation of, 583. 
Albuminous bodies, in breast milk, 477. 
Albumiruria, in pregnancy, diet in, 466. 
Alcohol, as a beverage or as a medicine, 
401. 
effect of, 385. 
as a food, 406. 
as a protein sparer, 306. 
use of, 385, 401. 
in puberty, 420. 
in tropical climates, 401. 
in war, 766. 
utilization of different food stuffs with 
and without, 308. 
Alimentary hygiene. See Eating, hygiene 

of. 
Alkali, added to milk, to prevent clotting, 

494. 
Allotriophagia, 119. 
Almond milk, preparation of. 582. 
Amino-acids, deaminization of proteins in, 
169. 
in proteins, 194. 

qualitative variations of, 200. 
as reserve energy supply, 211. 
ultimate fate of, after absorption by 
tissues, 210. 
Ammonia, in protein metabolism, 329. 
Anabolism, definition of, 286. 
Aneurisms, Bellingham's diet for, 548. 

Tufnell's diet for, 547. 
Animal protein, vegetable protein versus, 

528. 
Anorexia, 120, 



Appetite, loss of, 120. 

perversions of, akoria, 121. 
anorexia, 120. 

bulimia, or hyperorexia, 120. 
parorexia, 119. 
polydipsia, 121. 
polyphagia, 121. 
rumination, 121. 
seasickness, 122. 
"Apple-fasts," 545. 
Apples, dried, 25. 
Apple water, preparation of, 578. 
Apricots, dried, 24. 

Army rations, foreign. See Rations, of 
foreign armies. 
U. S. See Rations, U. S. Army. 
Arteries, hardening of, sign of old age, 

434. 
Arteriosclerosis, and old age, 439. 

as sign of old age, 434. 
Arthritis, rheumatoid, due to chronic in- 
testinal stasis, 460. 
Ash, percentage of, in bones, muscles and 

various organs, 312. 
Atwater's experiment for calculation of 

energy metabolism, 296. 
Austria, army daily ration of, 715. 

B 

Baeltz's investigations among the Japan- 
ese, in regard to diet and endur- 
ance, 176. 
Baking of meat, comparison of, with 
roasting, 60. 
mechanical and chemical changes in, 60. 
as practised by savage tribes, 60. 
process of, 60. 
Banana figs, 27. 
Bananas, dried, 27. 

dried products of, 27. 
Barley water, preparation of, 580. 
Base-forming and acid-forming elements, 

314. 
Base-forming elements of diet, 357. 
Beans, dehydrated, 41. 
cooking of, 43. 
food value of, 44, 
dried, 41. 

composition of fresh and, 41. 
lima, dehydrated, 42. 
soy, dehydrated, 42. 
Beef broth, preparation of. See Recipes, 
broths. 



775 



776 



INDEX 



Beef, dried, 2. 

Beef essence, preparation of. See Recipes, 

meat juices. 
Beef juice, preparation of. See Recipes, 
meat juices, 
peptonized, preparation of, 589. 
Beef tea egg-nog (Davis), preparation of, 
587. 
preparation of. See Recipes, beef teas. 
Beets, dehydration of, 36. 

advantages of, 37. 
Beet-sugar industry, 36. 
Bellingham's diet for aneurisms, 548. 
Beriberi, due to lack of vitamines, 230. 
Berries, drying of, 27. 
Bevenot de neveu process of desiccation of 

milk, 13. 
Beverages, preparation of. See Recipes, 
beverages, 
in tropical climates, 405. 
Bile, secretion of, in underfeeding, 162. 
Biliousness, due to overeating, 135. 
Biltong, or dried beef, 2. 
Blood, effect of underfeeding on, 162. 
Body weight, protein minimum necessary 

to, table showing, 154. 
Boiling of fish, 66. 
of meat, 55. 

action of salt in water, 57. 
for broth or bouillon, 56. 
correct procedure for, 56. 
difference between stewing and, 57. 
effect of, 55. 
primitive method of, 55. 
Borax, use of in preservation of meats, 7. 
Bouillon, proccflure for making, 66. See 

also Recipes, bouillons. 
Boys' military training camps, rations 
for. See Rations, for Boys' Mili- 
tary Training Camps. 
Bradyphagia, 82. 

advocates of, Fletcher, 82. 

Gladstone, 83. 
definition of, 83. 
ill effects of, 84, 85. 
Braising of meat, 64. 
Brandy and egg mixture, preparation of, 

586. 
Bread, advantages of wholemeal over high- 
ly milled, 749. 
use of, in war, 759. 
Bread-making, hi.story of, 49. 

See Recipes, breads. 
Bre&.st feeding, age for, 481. 
axioms for, 481. 
colostrum, 475. 
contra-indications to, 488. 
daily bowel movement during, 482. 
diet during period of, 481. 
duration of weaning, 483, 
gain in weight after each meal, 485. 
galactagogues, 479. 

importance of weighing baby during 
period of, 485, 486. 



Breast feeding, increased percentage of 
mothers capable of, 471. 

indications for discontinuing, 485, 486. 

micro-organisms in milk, 474. 

necessity for intelligent mothers, 480. 

a normal function, 482. 

regularity of, 483. 

relative frequency of, 472. 

stimulation of lacteal secretion, 479. 

successful, 484. 

unsuccessful, 484. 

women of to-day better fitted for, 472. 
Breast milk, coagulation of, 477, 

comparative analysis of cow's milk and, 
490. 

consideration of, 485. 
constituents of, albuminous bodies, 477. 
casein, 478. 
coagulation, 477. 
fat, 478. 

ferments (enzymes), 479. 
lactose, 478. 
deficiency in proteins and fats, 487. 
indications for analysis of, 485, 
lack of uniformity in, 487. 
micro-organisms in, 474. 
nitrogenous substances in, 475. 
quality of, 485. 
quantity of, 476. 

daily average drawn by baby, 477. 
daily secreted by healthy young 

mothers, 476. 
in secretion by primipara and multi- 
para, 476. 
Broiling of meat, 63, 
Bronchitis, of the aged, diet in, 452. 
Broth, procedure for making, 56. See also 

Recipes, broths. 
Bulimia, 120. 

Butter-fat, and vitamines. 228. 
Buttermilk, in infant feeding, chief value 
of, 501. 

class of infants benefited by, 501. 

composition of, 500, 

origin of, 500. 

preparation of, .500. 
Buttermilk cure, 566. 
Buttermilk and egg mixture, preparation 
of, 584. 



Cabbage, dehydrated, 40. 
Cactus fruit, dried, 28. 
Calcium content of foods, 350, 351. 
Calcium excretion, 349. 

lowering of, in disease, 341. 
Calcium oxid, in foods, approximate 

amounts of, 353. 
Calcium salts, importance of, 349. 
in infancy and childhood, 350. 

ingestion of. 349. 



INDEX 



777 



Caloric method of feeding, calculation of 
fuel values of food, 257. 
comparative equivalents in metric, 
avoirdupois and apothecaries' 
weiglits and measures, 257. 
heat produced from substances burned 
in calorimeter distinguished from 
heat available when usetl in body, 
263. 
represented by a particular menu, 263. 
table of, 258-263. 
caloric requirement of man, 252. 
caloric values of ingested foods, 250. 
calorific value of excretory products, 

254. 
constructive and fuel foods, 251. 
food requirement, factors governing, 

265. 
heat of combustion of various sub- 
stances and foods, 247. 
introductory, 243. 

method of reckoning the protein, fat 
and carbohydrate rations for 
diets of definite energy values, 
264. 
physiological food value, 255. 
regulation of body temperature, 274. 
standard and sample dietaries, 248. 
unit 'and method of measurement, 246. 
Caloric requirement of man, 252. 
Calories, income and outgo of, in meta- 
bolism experiments, 291. 
Calorific value of excretory products, 254. 
Rubner's table showing losses and avail- 
able energy, 255. 
Calorimeter, forms of, 246. 

use of, 246. 
Calorimetric combustion, average results 
of, 247. 
heats of, and approximate elementary 
composition of typical com- 
pounds, table of, 249. 
Canned foods, in diet of tropical climates, 

400. 
Canning, chemical agents used in, 7. 
process of, for preservation of food, 6. 
other foreign nations, 178. 
Carbohydrate difet, people subsisting al- 
most entirely on, Japanese, 176. 
Carbohydrate and fat, Kayser's table 
showing nitrogen balance when 
feeding isodynamic quantities of, 
303. 
sparing power of, in calorimetric ex- 
periments ( Atwater ) , 304. 
Carbohydrate-free diet, 338. 
Carbohydrates, amount of, contained in 
vegetables, before and after cook- 
ing of, 69. 
contained in cow's milk, 494. 
easily burned, catabolism of furnishing 

too much heat, 342. 
excess of, in metabolism of overfeeding, 
138. 



Carbohydrates, fat versus, as protein 
sparers, 302. 
function of, in nutrition, 301. 
as protein sparers, 300. 
transmutability of, 101. 
Carbon, income and outgo of nitrogen and, 
in metabolism experiments, 290, 
296. 
Carrots, dehydration of, 37. 
Casein, in breast milk, 478. 
in cow's milk, 493. 
dehydration of, 17. 
Catabolism, definition of, 287. 
Candle, preparation of, 581, 587. 
Celery, dehydration of, 40. 
Cellulose diet, 339. 
Cellulose, foods containing, 340. 
Cereal foods, preparation of. See Recipes. 
Cereal grains, exhaustion of reserve in, in 

U. S., 769. 
Cereals, partly digested, prepared at 
table, 589. 
protein and starch equivalents in buck- 
wheat and, in diet of tropical 
climates, table of, 391. 
use of, in war, corn, 763. 
oatmeal, 762. 
wheat, 759. 
Certified milk, 489. 
Character, influence of diet on, 370. 
Chemical agents, antiseptic, treatment 
with, in preservation of food, 7. 
Chemical elements, composing human or- 
ganism, 361. 
Chestnut, dried, 28. 
Chicken broth, preparation of, 598. 
Childhood, diet in, 409. See also Diet in 

Childhood. 
Chinese raisins, 28. 

Chittenden's experiments in low protein 
diet, 171. 
conclusions of, 186, 190. 
Chittenden's low protein dietary, 253. 
Chittenden's table, 173. 
Chlorin equilibrium, maintenance of, 348. 
Church's standard diet for Indians, 393. 
Climate, and diet, 372. 

maintenance allowance according to 
climates, 373. 
tropical, diet in. See Diet in Tropical 
Climates. 
Cocoa, preparation of, 582. 
Coffee, preparation of, 582. 
Cold storage, preservation of meat by. 3. 
prolonged, effect of, 4. 
requisite temperatures for preservation 
of certain animal foods, 5. 
Colostnmi, appearance of, 475. 
coinposition of, 475. 
specific gravity of, 476. 
Concentrated proteins, 70. 
Condensed foods, as means of food concen- 
tration, 70. 
Condensed milk, in infant feeding, 409. 



778 



INDEX 



Constipation, ancient usage of medical 
practice for overcoming of. 457. 
Constitution, influence of diet on, 368. 
Convalescents, exchange of energy in, 141. 
flesh formation in, 141. 
interchange of nitrogen and storage, 
protein and fat, absolute and per- 
centage, in overfeeding, table 
showing approximate values of, 
143. 
nitrogen increase in, due to overfeed- 
ing, table emphasizing, 142. 
nitrogen retention in. 141. 
Cookery, varieties of, .54. 
Cooking, changes produced by, 53. 

coagulation point of different albumins, 

57. 
difference between French, English and 

American, 53. 
of dried beans, 43. 
of fish, 66. 

history of, ancient British, 50. 
berries, fruit, etc., 50. 
as branch of woman's education in 

this country, 51. 
bread-making, 49. 
fish, 50. 
French, 50. 
meats, 50. 
of meat, baking, 60. 
boiling, 55. 
braising, 64. 
broiling, 63. 
comparative composition before and 

after, 65. 
comparative composition of water-free 

substance before and after, 66. 
frying, 58. 
grilling, 63. 

"high" or slightly tainted, 62. 
losses in, 65. 
roasting, 61. 
steaming, 65. 
stewing, 57. 
poor, evil effects of, 54. 
principles of, changes produced by, 53. 
digestibility, 51. 
foods requiring, 51. 
knowledge of, necessary to phvsician. 

51. 
scientific application of heat, 51. 
scientific application of heat, to animal 
foods, 52. 
coagulation of proteins, 52. 
dextrinization of starch, 52. 
to fats, 52. 

gelatinization of starches, 52. 
to sugar, 52. 
to vegetable foods, 52. 
of vegetable foods, objects to be achieved 

in. 67. 
of vegetables, action of. 67. 

amount of carbohydrates contained, 
before and after, 69. 



Cooking, of vegetables, deficiency of fat in 
vegetables made up in prepara- 
tion of, for table, 69. 
gain of water on, (i8. 
lengths of time required for, 69. 
Corn, dehydration of, 44. 
protein of, 199. 
relation of, to pellagra, 44. 
use of, in war, 763. 
Cornmeal mush, preparation of, 609. 
Creatinin, in protein metabolism, 329. 
Crime, relation of underfeeding to, 152, 

153. 
Curds and whev or junket, preparation 

of. 592.' 
Cures, buttermilk, 566. 
dry, 561. 
grape, 546. 
kiuniss, 564. 
lemon, 546. 
matzoon, 566. 
milk, 569. 
skim milk, 572. 
sour milk cure, 567. 
whev, 573. 
yolk, 563. 
Currant juice, preparation of, 578. 
Custards, preparation of. See Recipes, 

custards. 
Cutaneous lesions, due to chronic intes- 
tinal stasis, 463, 466. 
acne, 467. 
itching dermatoses, 468. 



Dates, curing of, 27. 
Debility, dietary for. 564. 
Decomposition of food, causes of, 1. 
Deficiency diseases, due to lack of vita- 
mines, 230. 
Dehydration, advantages of, 9. 
economic, 46 
of casein, 17. 
of eggs, 17. 
of fish, 20. 

of foods used in the army, 37. 
of fruits, advantages of, economic, 30. 
analysis and caloric value of dried 

fruits, per pound, 29. 
as an ancient procedure, 20. 
apples, 25. 
apricots, 24. 

by artificial drying, 21. 
bananas, 27. 
cactus fruit. 28. 
chestnut, 28. 

comparative cost of total nutrients 
and fuel value of some fresh and 
dried fruits, 31. 
dates, 27. 
litchi nut or Chinese raisin, 28. 



INDEX 



779 



Dehydration, of fruits, methods of, 24. 

old-fashioned, or houseliold method, 
24. 
olives. 28. 
peaches. 24. 
persimmon, 2S. 
preparation of fruit for, 23. 
proper storage of, 26. 
prunes, 22. 
raisins, 26. 

small fruits and berries, 27. 
by sun drying, 21. 
unusual, 28. 

in Germany, 10. 
of meat, ancient and modern methods 
of, 18. 
as a concentrating and preserving 

process, 71. 
powdered meats, 20. 
disadvantages of, 20. 
Italian method for making, 20. 
Tellier method of, 19. 
of milk. See Desiccated Milk; also 
Desiccation of Milk, 
success of, 46. 
value of, 9. 
of vegetables, 11, 32. 

advantages of kiln method for, 41. 
beans. 41. 

cooking of, 43. 
lima, 42. 
soy, 42. 
beets, 36. 
cabbage, 40. 
carrots, 37. 
celery, 40. 
corn, 44. 

importance of, as food, 32. 
as means of food concentration, 70. 
methods of, 32. 
onions, 40. 
potatoes, 33. 

composition of, 34. 
composition and fuel value of, un- 
der various methods of prepara- 
tion, 34. 
methods of, 33. 
potato flour, 35. 
relative weights of green and kiln- 
evaporated, 40. 
salsify, 37. 

starch-yielding tubers, 36. 
sweet potato, 35. 
turnips, 37. 
used in the army, 37. 
vegetable flours, use of, 44. 
of yeast, 45. 
See also Desiccation. 
Dehydrator, most efficient form of, for 

home use, 45. 
Denutrition, temporary, benefit of, 115. 
Dermatoses, itching, treatment of, 468. 
Desiccated eggs, 71. 



Desiccated milk. 71. 
advantages of, 16. 
comparison of kinds of, 15. 
reconstruction of. for infants, 15. 
Desiccation, as means of food concentra- 
tion, 70. 
of milk, from which fat has been re- 
moved, 15. 
historical development of process of, 

12. 
present methods of, Bevenot de neveu 
process of, 13. 
Ekenberg process, 13. 
Just-Hatmaker process, 13. 
Stauf process, 14. 
as recent discovery, 12. 
of vegetables, as means of food concen- 
tration, 70. 
Diabetic foods, recipes for. See Recipes, 

diabetic foods. 
Diastatic ferment, in milk, 497. 
Diet, acid-forming and base-forming ele- 
ments of, 357. 
in acne, 467. 
army. See Rations. 
Bellingham's, for aneurisms, 548. 
carbohydrate-free, 338. 
cellulose, 339. 

character of, and protein content, 212. 
in childhood, adaptation of, to diathesis 
of child, 413. 
comparative heights and weights of 

children, 412. 
early, 410. 
factors of growth and development, 

415. 
for gouty diathesis, 413. 
greediness discouraged, 417. 
important points, 412. 
rations required, 409. 

from four to six years, 411. 
requisite amount of all foodstuffs, 415. 
requisite calories per kilogram for va- 
rious ages, 415. 
for school children, 414. 
arrangement of meals, 416. 
suitable dietary, 416. 
Starr's table of dietetic needs, 41C. 
for tuberculosis, 413. 
Church's standard table of, for Indians, 

393. 
climate and, 372. 

maintenance allowance according to 
climates, 373. 
drv cure, 561. 
fat-free, 338. 
fruit. See Fruit Diet, 
high protein, 325. 
importance of caloric value of, 148. 
influence of, on character, 370. 
on constitution and health, 368. 
of, on races, 371. 
in intestinal stasis, chronic, 464. 
after labor, 429. 



780 



INDEX 



Diet, during lactation, 429, 481. 

day's ration for nursing women, 430. 

decrease or increase of quantity of 
mammary secretion, 431. 

rules formulated by Rotch, 431. 
lacto vegetarian, 521. 
low protein, 324. 
meat. See Meat Diet, 
during menopause, 432. 
during menstruation, 425. 
in military prison camps, 718. 
milk cure, 569. 

buttermilk cure, 566. 

kumiss cure, 564. 

matzoon cure, 566. 

skim milk cure, 572. 

sour milk cure, 567. 

whey cure, 573. 
navy. See Rations, 
nitrogen. See Nitrogen Diet, 
nitrogen in. See Nitrogen in diet, 
nitrogen-free, 325. 
non-meat eating, Japanese, 176. 

other foreign nations, 178. 
and occupation, 371. 
in old age, according to Dr. Harry 
Campbell, 440. 

according to Friedenwald and Ruhriih, 
441. 

alimentary pastes: food value, 449. 

in bronchitis. 452. 

and condition of teeth, 450. 

idiosyncrasy a factor in, 441, 

Kosevi's maintenance ration, 443. 

Langworthy's dietary standard, 443, 

Maurel's maintenance rations, 443. 

meat consumption, 451. 

nature of, 439. 

and nitrogen metabolism, 444. 

for the obese. 446. 

quantity of food, 436, 439. 

raising caloric value of, 448. 

reduction of fuel value in, 445. 

Saundby's daily dietary, showing dis- 
tribution of meals, 447. 

suggestions of Yeo, 452. 

for tiiose leading vegetative lives, 446. 

Voit's dietary standard, 442. 
during pregnancy, 425. 

to insure small but well-developed 
child, claims of Prochownick, 427. 

"longings" for various indigestible ar- 
ticles, 426. 

in presence of albuminuria and 
dropsy, 426. 

Prochownick's. 428. 

quantity of fond, 426. 

theory of abundant phosphates and 
lime salts. 427. 

theorv of avoiding fresh vegetables, 
427. 
for professional singers and lecturers, 

560. 
protein. See Protein Diet. 



Diet, during puberty, 418. 

craving for sweets, 420. 
during puerperium, 428. 
purin, excess of, 335, 

low, 336. 
purin-free, 336, 

dinners suggested by Haig's disciple, 

relation of, to craving for salt, 347, 

of to scurvy. 358, 
safety standard in, 195, 

caution as to protein deficiency, 196. 

overfeeding, 197. 

undereating, 196. 
Salisburv, 536. 

modified, 537. 
salt-free, 345. 
in sedentary occupations, 421. 

comparative lunches, 423. 

Richards' ration, 424. 

suitable dietary, 422. 
training, 552. 

in tropical climates, alcohol and bev- 
erages, 401. 

amount of, required, 388. 

canned foods, 400. 

cause of digestive disturbances, 398. 
Church's standard diet for Indians, 393. 

conclusions on, 400. 

and disease, 399, 

fruit, 389, 

Indians, 393, 394. 

meat eating, effect of, in, 389. 

meats, 395. 

milk, 394. 

of natives and whites, 397. 

nitrogenous foods, comparative im- 
munity of white men due to feed- 
ing on, 388. 
lack of, among natives, 388. 

protein and starch equivalents in ce- 
reals and buckwheats, table of, 
.391. 

in pulse, table of, 392, 
sweets, 398, 
vegetables, 390. 
views on, changes in, 386, 
Lukis and Blackham. 387. 
Woodruff's. Dr. Charles, 386. 
Tufnell's for treatment of aortic and 

other aneurisms, 547. 
variety in, necessity for, 94. 
ve2etal)|p. See Vegetable Diet. 
Weir Mitchell, in treatment of neu- 
rasthenia and disorders of nutri- 
tion independent of organic dis- 
ease. 549. 
yolk cure, 563. 
/yniotherapy. 538. 
Dietaries, actual. 3H0. 

actual and atanrlard, compared, 378. 
company, in V. S. army rations, 675, 
of individuals allowed a "free choice of 
food," 377. . 



INDEX 



781 



Dietaries, of inhabitants of United States, 
374. 
Playfair's table of requirements for 

work, 377. 
standard, 248. 

standard and actual, compared, 378. 
standard daily, 378, 379. 
tropical, in U. S. army, 676. 
typical, minerals in, daily quantities per 
man, 342. 
Dietary, in boys' military training camp. 
Fort Terry, New York, for one 
week, 686-690. 
showing requisite amounts of ternary 
food elements and fuel or energy 
value in calories, 692-697. 
for debility, 564. 
fat and vegetarian. Wait's, 521. 
of laborers, in United States, 376. 
low protein. Chittenden, 253. 
of marching soldiers, 382. 
of mechanics, in United States, 376. 
of Mexicans, 383, 384. 
of negroes, 382, 384. 
in old age, 440. 

of poor person in New York City, show- 
ing food elements and calories, 
374. 
in puberty, 419. 
reducing, 559. 
for school children, 416. 
for the sedentary, 422. 
of students' clubs, 374. 
for tuberculous children, 413. 
of University boat-crews, studies of, 555. 
vegetarian, Jaffa's, 542. 
vegetarian and fat, Wait's, 528. 
well-balanced, vitamines in, 224. 
of Yale training crew, 554. 
Dietary experiment, Neumann's, 310. 
Dietotherapy, alcohol, use of, 385. 
definition of, 361. 
diet studies, 374. 
general principles of, 361. 
amount of food required, 362. 
climate and diet, 372. 
influence of diet on character, 370. 
on constitution and health, 368. 
on races, 371. 
meals, composition of, 366. 

distribution of, 366. 
occupation and diet, 371. 
Diets, of definite energy values, method 
of reckoning protein, fat and car- 
bohydrate rations for, 264. 
special, 519. 

standard, exchange of material with, 
288. 
Diet studies. See Dietary and Dietaries. 
Digestibility of foodstuffs, 104. 
comparison as to, 106. 
fats, 105. 

the finer the subdivisions of food in- 
gested, the larger the proportion 
of nutriments assimilated, 105. 



Digestibility of foodstuffs, fruits, 108. 
proteins, 107. 
utilization of some of staple foodstuffs, 

104. 
vegetable foods, 107. 
Digestion, effect of manner of eating on, 
bradyphagia, 82. 
euphagia, 78. 

rapidity of mastication, 86. 
tachyphagia, 84. 
occupation and, 94. 
salivary, manner and time of, 85. 
sleep and, 93. 
and variety in diet, 94. 
See also eating, hygiene of. 
Digestive disturbances, in tropics, cause 

of, 398. 
Digestive glands, action on, of emotional 

excitement, 81. 
Digestive organs, evil effects of underfeed- 
ing on, 152. 
Digestive process, first stages of, started 
by pleasurable smell and sight 
and taste of food, 80. 
Dry cure, 561. 
Drying of food, 2. See also Dehydration, 

and Desiccation. 
Dyspepsia, meat diet in treatment of, 535. 

E 

Eating, abnormally slow, or bradyphagia, 
82. 
effect of manner of, on digestion, brady- 
phagia, 82. 
euphagia, 78. 
food and emotions, 79. 
food and work, 79. 
rapidity of mastication, 86. 
tachyphagia, 84. 
hasty, or tachyphagia, 84. 
hygiene of, 77. 

and appetizing ailments, 78. 

effect of manner of, on digestion, 78. 

meals, order and frequency of, 90. 

regularity of, 92. 
occupation and digestion, 94. 
personal idiosyncrasies, 89. 
principles involved in, 78. 
relation of medication to meals, 96. 
and sacrifices in food, 88. 
sleep and digestion, 93. 
variety in diet, 94. 
water drinking with meals, 88. 
personal idiosyncrasies in, 89. 
proper, or euphagia. 78. 
role of senses in pleasure of, 75. 
Egg dumplings, preparation of, 607. 
Eggs, cold storage, 5. 
dehydration of, 17. 
desiccated, 71. 
dried, 17. 71. 

preparation of. See Recipes, eggs, 
preparation of beverages with. See 
Recipes, beverages. 



782 



INDEX 



Eggs, preservation of, by drying, 17, 71. 
Ekenberg process of desiccation of milk, 

13. 
Emotions, food and, 79. 
Endurance, Baeltz's experiments in diet 
and, among the Japanese, 176. 
effect of protein diet on, 192, 
Fisher's experiments on eflfect of diet 

on, 174. 
Fisher's test diet and, 175. 
Flint's observations on effects of five- 
day pedestrian feat performed by 
Weston, 183. 
Endurance tests, comparative, Fisher's, 

176. 
Energy, consumption of, in chronic mal- 
nutrition, 160. 
expended by marching soldiers, 382. 
and vegetable diet, 524. 
Enzymes, in breast milk, 479, 
Epicures, 131. 
Euphagia, 78. 
Evaporation in preservation of food. See 

Dehydration. 
Excretion of fat, in stools, percentage of, 

106. 
Excretory products, calorific value of, 254. 
RQbner's table showing losses and 
available energy, 255. 



Farinaceous foods, preparation of. Bee 

Recipes. 
Farina dumplings, preparation of, 610. 
Fasting, as ancient religious rite, 112. 
as cure for disease, 113, 114. 
effect of, on metabolism, 117, 298. 
forced, ravenous hunger result of, 113. 
long-continued, 115. 
metabolic carbon and nitrogen balance 

during. 298. 
no-breakfast plan, 113. 
in religion, 112, 117. 
Fasting experiments, 116. 

metabolic, 118. 
Fat, in breast milk, 478. 
in cow's milk, 493. 
excretion of, in stools, percentage of, 

105. 
percentage of, in foods, 339. 
perversion of appetite for special or pe- 
culiar kinds of, 119. 
versus carbohydrates as protein sparers, 
302. 
Fat and carbohydrate, Kayser's table 
showing nitrogen balance when 
feeding isodvnamic quantities of, 
303. 
sparing power of, in calorimetric experi- 
ments (Atwater), 304. 
Fat and vegetarian diet, Wait's, 528. 
Fat consumption in United States, 771. 
Fat-free diet, 338. 



Fatless milk, desiccation of, 15, 
Fatigue poisons, due to meat eating, 207. 
Fats, action on, of heat, 52. 

deficiency of, in breast milk, 487. 
Feces, nitrogen in, 323. 
Feeding, caloric method of. See Caloric 
Method of Feeding, 
of infants. Sec Infant Feeding. 
Ferment, diastatic. in milk, 497. 
Fermentation of milk, analysis of changes 

occurring in, 508. 
Ferments, in breast milk, 479. 
Fcrratin. 355. 
Fish, cooking of, 66. 
history of, 50. 
dried, 20. 

preparation of. See Recipes, fish, 
preservation of, by chemical agents, 7. 
by drying, 20. 
by freezing, 3. 
by salting. 3. 
by smoking, 2. 
Fish soup, preparation of, 606. 
Fisher's comparative endurance te-sts. 176. 
Fisher's experiments in effect of diet on 

endurance, 174. 
Fisher's test diet and endurance, 175. 
Fletcherism. See Bradyphagia. 
Folin's views on protein diet, 187. 
Food, decomposition of, causes of, 1. 

effects of work and, on respiration, 203. 
and emotions, 79. 
purin, effect of, on uric acid, 334. 
purin bodies in. 333. 

quantity of, 334. 
as a source of heat and growth. See 

Caloric Method of Feeding, 
substitutes for, 108, 
weight of different classes of, purchased 

per man per day, 375. 
and work, 70. 
Food concentration, basis of, 70. 

composition of components of ration of 

United States soldier, 72. 
composition of emergency ration of 

German soldier, 72. 
concentrated proteins, 70. 
condensed foods, 70. 
desiccated eggs, 71. 
desiccated milk, 71. 
desiccated vegetables, 70. 
desiccation, 70. 
dried meat, 71. 
dried vegetables, 70. 
Food economics in war, 739. 

food situations in countries at war, 740. 
summary of, 773. 

use of certain foodstuffs in war. See 
Foodstuffs, use of, in war. 
Food economy, dehydration as factor in, 10. 

necessity for, 10. 
Food material, amount required, 129. 

dependent on idiosyncrasy and cus- 
tom, 137. 
dependent on individual capacity, 138. 



INDEX 



783 



Food material, amount required, in early 
life, 137. 
influence of work on, 184. 
reserve supply of. desirable, 120. 
Food preservation, basis of, 1. 
methods of, 1. 

canning, or exclusion of air, 6. 
classification of, 2. 
cold storage or refrigeration, 3. 
dehydration. See Dehydration, 
drying, 2. 
freezing, 3. 
salting, 3. 
smoking, 2. 
sterilization, 6. 

treatment with antiseptic chemical 
agents, 7. 
Food requirement, 12. 

adult, per kilo, table of, 365. 
dependent on idiosyncrasy and custom. 

137. 
dependent on individual capacity, 138. 
in early life, 137. 
examples of food actually consumed, 

270. 
factors governing, 265. 
age, 266. 

amount of heat lost by body, 265. 
choice of food, 269. 
intensity of muscular activity, 271. 
kind of' work, 184, 268. 
sex, 266. 

influence of internal secretions of 
woman, 268. 
weight of body, 266. 
necessary for healthy individual, 362. 
relation of height to weight. 363. 
storage of food ingested above, 366. 
Foods, in which acid-forming elements 
predominate, 357. 
in which base-forming elements predomi- 
nate. 358. 
calcium content of, 350, 351. 
calcium oxid in, approximate amounts 

of, 353. 
canned, in tropical climates, 400. 
Foods, chemical analysis of, 257. 

choice of, as factor in food requirement, 

269. 
constructive and fuel, 251. 
consumption of, actual, table of. 270. 
increased metabolism following, 297. 
by marching soldiers per day, 382. 
containing cellulose. 340. 
containing potassium chlorid, 348. 
containing vitamines, and their anti- 
neuritic and antiscorbutic quali- 
ties, 228. 
butter fat, 228. 
rice, 228. 
fat in, percentage of, 339. 
fuel and constructive. 251. 
fuel values of, calculations of, 257. 
table of. 258-263. 



Foods, fuel values of, unit and method of 
measurement of, 246. 
included in training diets, 553. 
ingested, caloric values of, 250. 
inorganic constituents of, importance 

of, 357. 
iron salts contained in, 355. 
magnesium salts in, 351. 

approximate amounts of, 353. 
palatable preparation of, general con- 
sideration, 577. 
phosphorus content of, 354. 

relation of vitamines to, 233. 
preparation of. See Recipes, 
reservation of, 102. 
sodium chlorid in, percentage of, 346. 
sulphur salts in, 356. 
transmutability of, carbohydrates, 101. 
hydrocarbons, 100, 101. 
proteins. 101, 102. 
salines, 99. 
used in the army, dehydration of, 37. 
used in the army and navy. See Ra- 
tions, 
vitamine content of, 226. 

physiological estimation of, 232. 
Food situation, in countries at war, Ger- 
many, 740. 
agricultural classes, 746. 
caloric needs, 746. 
consumption of food units, 1912- 

1913, 745. 
dietary of industrial classes, 747. 
drying process, 743. 
fat a prominent factor, 744. 
feeding of military prisoners, 751. 
finding new fodder, 742. 
liberal rations for women engaged 
in manual work in open air, 744. 
peace-time needs, 746. 
population of, and caloric needs for, 

745. 
protein needs in ounces, 746. 
use of leaves, 742. 
Great Britain, adult rations in, per 
head per week, 755. 
caloric needs, 749. 
diet of munition workers, 753. 
dietaries for three middle-class 
families, sixteen persons in Eng- 
land before voluntary restriction, 
753. 
dietary requirements, 747, 749. 
during first year of war, 749. 
during year 1916, 748. 
first definite steps to control of 

supply. 747. 
importations of food supplies before 

the war, 747. 
particulars of army rations. 748. 
protein requirements. 749. 
total quantities of foodstuff's avail- 
able during 1909, 1913, 748. 



784 



INDEX 



Food situation, in countries at war, Great 
Britain, unrestricted diet of a 
sedentary worker, 756-758. 
voluntary rationing scheme in, 754. 
Ruhleben diets compared with stand- 
ard dietaries. 751. 
sugar situation, 751. 
in United States, causes of food short- 
age, 768. 
cereal grains, 769. 

concentrated nature of our food ex- 
ports, 770. 
economic viewpoint. 769. 
fat consumption, 771. 
propositions for food conservation, 

772. 
protein consumption. 771. 
sugar consumption, 771. 
use of grains for manufacture of al- 
cohol, 772. 
wheat production. 768. 
Foodstuffs, digestibility of. Bee Digesti- 
bility of Foodstuffs, 
staple, percentage of utilization of, 104. 
use of, in war, alcohol, 766. 
bread, 759. 
cereals. 749. 
corn, 763. 

extraction from total grain, 760. 
oatmeal, 762. 
milk, 764. 
potatoes, 764. 

requiring mastication, 761. 
sugar, 765 
utilization of, with and without alco- 
hol, 308 
Food values, with cost per 1,000 calories, 
273. 
of fruits, comparison of fresh and dried, 

28. 
physiological, 265. 
Food waste, from economical standpoint, 
103. 
fats, 105. 
nutrient, percentage of, in ordinary 

mixed diet. 106. 
physiological, 104. 
France, armv rations of, 702. 

daily, 7115. 
Freezing of food, as agency of preserva- 
tion, 3. 
Fruit, in diet of tropical climates, 389. 
digestibility of, 108. 

dried, analysis and caloric value of, per 

pound, 20. 

comparison of ffKxl value of fresh 

and. 28. 

drying of. .sVf Dehydration of Fruits. 

fresh, comparison of food value of dried 

and, 28, 
necessity of, in diet, 527. 
preservation of, by dehydration. 9. dec 
also Dehydration of Fruits, 
by drying, 2. 



Fruit, preservation of, by sugar, 7. 

waste of, in America, 10. 
Fruit cure, 545. 
Fruit diet, apple-fasts, 545. 
in disease, 544. 
experiments with various fruits, 542 

543. 
grape cure, 546. 
Jaffa's observations on fruitarians, 543. 

544. 
Jaffa's vegetarian dietary, 542, 
lemon cure, 546. 
low in protein. 541. 
low in protein, fat and sometimes caloric 

value, 541. 
nitrogen equilibrium maintainable on. 

540. 
records of three subjects subsisting on, 

Fruits, comparison of food value of, fresh 
ami dried, 28. 
cooked, preparation of. See Recipes, 

fruits, 
dried, comparative cost of total nu- 
trients and fuel value of some 
fresh and. 31. 
economic advantages of, 30. 
fresh, comparative cost of total nu- 
trients and fuel value of some 
dried and, 31. 
Frying of fish. 66. 

of meat, definition of process, 58. 
mediums suitable for, 59. 
proce<Jure for. 59. 
temperature of fats in, 59. 
Fuel foods, 251. 

Fuel values of foo<l, calculation of, chem- 
ical analyses of foods, 257. 
comparative equivalents in metric, 
avoirdupois and apothecaries' 
weights and measures, 257. 
heat produced and substances burned 
in calorimeter distinguished from 
heat available when used in body, 
263. 
represented by a particular menu, 

263. 
table of values of ordinary foods pre- 
pared to serve, 258-263. 
unit and method of measurement of, 
246. 

G 

Game flavor, cause of, 63. 
Gastric peristalsis, inhibition of, by sen- 
sory stimuli, 81, 
Gelatin, as a protein sparer, .305. 
Gernuinv, army rations of, 700. 
daily. 716! 
food situation in, 740. 
Gluttons, differentiat«'d from- epicures or 
gourmets, 131. 
from large eaters, 132. 
of history, 132, 1.33, 1.34. 



INDEX 



785 



Gluttony, 132. 

chronic, 131. 
Gourmand, 132. 
Gourmandizing, chronic, 131. 
Gourmets, 131. 

Gouty diathesis, in children, diet for, 413. 
Grape cure, 546. 
Great Britain, army rations of, 713. 

food situation in, 747. 
Gustation, scat of, 76. 

Gustative bulbs, veritable savors recog- 
nizable through, 77. 
Gustative sense, 76. 



H 



Health, influence of diet on, 368. 
and vegetable diet, 525. 

Heat, destructive action of, on vitamines. 
222. 

Heat of body, loss of, amount of, 265. 
regulation of, 276. 
production of, during rest, 279. 

Heat energy, liberated by oxidation of al- 
cohol, 406. 

Heat production in twenty-four hours and 
gaseous exchange per minute, 
during absolute muscular rest in 
fasting condition, 280. 

Height and weight, comparative, of chil- 
dren, 412. 
relation of, 363. 
at varying ages, standard, table of, 364. 

Hepatin, 355. 

Home modification of cow's milk, 506, 
512. 

Hominy mush, preparation of, 609. 

Human economy, foods required \>y, 362. 

Hutchinson's views on protein diet, 187. 

Hydrocarbons, transmutability of, 100, 
101. 

Hydrolytic cleavage, preceding every 
metabolic transformation of pro- 
tein, 209. 

Hyperorexia, 120. 

Hypozanthin, formation of, 332. 



Ice cream, making of. See Recipes, ice 

cream. 
Idiosyncrasies, personal, in eating, 89. 
Inanition, causes of. 111. 

death from, in relation to body weight, 

147. 
definition and symptoms of. 111. 
Indians, diet of, 393. 

Infant feeding, artificial, addition of al- 
kalines, to prevent clotting, 494. 
analysis of whole milk varying cream 
percentages skimmed and sepa- 
rated milks, 513. 



Infant feeding, artificial, buttermilk, 500. 
certified milk, 489. 
Cheadle's principles of, 506. 
clinical application of, 509. 
condensed milk, 499. 
difficulty of digestion of cow's milK, 
511. 

failure to assimilate salts of cow's 

milk, 496. 
and good air, 511. 
home modification or adaptation of 

milk, 506, 512. 
importance of mineral salts, 497. 
importance of sugar, 495. 
importance of water, 497. 
important rules to be followed in, 514, 

515. 

summary of, 515. 
making all food formulae from three 

ingredients, 514. 
management of casein of cow's milk, 

512. 

necessary elements, 511. 
overfeeding, 510. 
pasteurized milk, 503. 
peptonized milk, 501. 
proper intervals for infants of vari- 
ous ages, 510. 
proprietary or patent foods, 504. 

percentages, 508. 
quiet in, 511. 

selection of cow's milk for, 489. 
sterilized milk, 502. 
success in, 510. 
sugars in, 512. 

supplementary articles of diet be- 
tween sixth and twelfth month, 
514. 
breast feeding, 471. See also Breast 

Feeding. 
mixed, 488. 
Infants' milk, desiccated, reconstruction 

of, 15. 
Insalivation, in process of digestion, 85. 
Intestinal canal, hygiene of, 469. 
Intestinal stasis, chronic, constant ab- 
sorption of poisonous elements in, 
459. 
diet in, 464. 
diseases due to, 460. 
acidosis, 463. 

cutaneous lesions, 463, 466. 
acne, 467. 

itching dermatoses, 468. 
of internal secretions, 462. 
rheumatoid arthritis, 460. 
ulcer of stomach and duodenum, 461. 
due to mechanical obstruction, 458. 
maladies without satisfactory etiology 

traceable to. 459. 
treatment of, by diet, 464, 465. 
by manipulation, 464. 
by surgery, 465, 466. 



786 



INDEX 



Intestinal toxemia, due to overeating, 

135. 
Intestines, construction of abdominal vis- 
cera with especial reference to 
drainage, 455. 
faulty position of abdominal viscera due 
to refinements of civilization, 456. 
hygiene of, and effort to overcome con- 
stipation, 457. 
general considerations, 455. 
intestinal canal, 469. 
intestinal stasis, chronic, 458. 
Invalid broths, 599. 
Iron, inorganic, given as drug, 366. 
Iron salts, compounds of, 355. 
contained in body, 355. 
contained in foods, 355. 
excretion of, 355. 
Italy, army ration of, daily, 717. 
Itching dermatoses, treatment of, 468. 



Jaffa's vegetarian dietary. 542. 
Japan, armv rations of, 701. 

daily, 717. 
Jellies, making of. See Recipes, jellies. 
Julienne soup, 602. 

Just'Hatmaker process of desiccation of 
milk, 13. 



Kayser's table showing nitrogen balance 
when feeding isodynamic quan- 
tities of carbohvdrate and fat, 
303. 

Kosevi's maintenance ration for the aged, 
443. 



Labor, diet after, 429. 
Laborers, dietary of. 376. 
Lactalbumen. in cow's milk, 493. 
Lactation, daily bowel movement during, 
4S2. 
diet during, 429, 481. 

day's ration, calculated by Gautier, 

430. 
in regard to quantity of mammary 

secretion. 431. 
rules formulated by Rotch, 431. 
influence of diet and exercise on, 431. 
period of, 429. 
Lactic acid, in souring of milk, 569. 
Lactic acid therapy, 569. 
Lacto-vegetarian diet, 521. 

an impossibility, according to Caultey, 
523. 
Lactose, in breast milk, 478. 
Langworthy's dietary standard for aged 

and infirm, 443. 
Lecturers, diet for, 560. 



Legumes, composition and fuel value of 
fresh and dried 42. 

dehydrated, 42. 
Lemon cure, 546. 
Lentil soup, preparation of, 604. 
Lipoids, bio-electric potentiality of, 221. 

in metabolism, 220. 

nitrogenous importance of, 219. 

substances comprised under, 220. 



M 



Magnesium salts, 351. 
in body, 352. 
in food, 351. 

approximate amount of, 353. 
Malacia, 119, 120. 

Malnutrition, chronic, consumption of 
energy in, 160. 
Weir Mitchell diet in treatment of, 549. 
Malted milk, in infant feeding, 505. 
Mastication, act of, 83. 

foods requiring, and greater nutritive 

value of, 761. 
of meat, 87. 

moderate, necessity for, 83. 
prolonged, overdoing of. See Brady- 

phagia. 
rapidity of, 86. 
Matzoon cure, 566. 

Maurel's maintenance rations for old peo- 
ple, 443. 
Meals, composition of, 366. 
distribution of, 366. 
drinking of water with, 88. 
order and frequency of, in diseased con- 
ditions, 90, 
in normal health, 90. 
for- persons engaged in commercial 

life, 91. 
for persons engaged in manual labor, 

90. 
for persons engaged in night work, 91. 
for persons engaged in professional 

vocations, 91. 
for persons engaged in skilled labor, 

91. 
for persons leading life of leisure, 91. 
regularity of, 92. 
relation of medication to, 96. 
Meat, baking of, 60. 
boiling of, 55. 
braising of, 64. 
broiling of, 63. 
comparative composition before and 

after cooking of, 65. 
comparative composition of water-free 
substance of meats, before and 
after cooking, 66. 
concentration of, by drying, 71. 
consumption of, in America, 206. 
in different countries, 367. 
in old age, 451. 
in tropical climates, 395. 



INDEX 



787 



Meat, cooking of, history of, 50. 
Sec also Cooking, of Meat, 
digestion of, and bolting of, 88. 

and mastication, 87. 
eating of, direction of allowance of, 20G. 
and fatigue poisons, 207. 
restriction of, 206. 
frying of, 58. 
grilling of, 03. 
mastication of, 87. 

effect of bolting, 88. 
need of, felt by those accustomed to, 

368. 
overfeeding on, ailments and disorders 

due to, 207. 
powdered, 20. 

disadvantages of, 20, 
Italian method for making of, 20. 
preparation of. See Recipes, meats, 
preservation of, by antiseptic chemical 
agents, 7. 
by canning, 6, 
by cold storage, 3. 
by dehydration. See Dehydration of 

Meat, 
by drying, 71. See also Dehydration 

of Meat, 
by freezing, 3. 
by smoking, 2. 
by sterilization, 6. 
roasting of, 61. 
as a source of nitrogen, 174. 
steaming of, 65. 
stewing of, 57. 

tropical disorders due to eating of, 170. 
Meat diet, amount necessary to supply re- 
quisite nutriment, 534. 
effects of, 534. 
exclusive, 532. 
metabolism with, 535. 
peoples subsisting on, 533. 
and physical power, 533. 
Salisburv diet, 536. 

modifiied, 537. 
in treatment of dyspepsia, 535. 
of gout, 535. 
of obesity, 535. 
of tuberculosis, 534. 
zymotherapy, 538, 
Meat extract, iced, preparation of, 597. 
Meat juices, preparation of, 595. 
Meat soups, preparation of. See Recipes, 

Soups, 
Meat supply, of French army, 711. 
Mechanics, dietary of, 376. 
Medication, relation of, to meals, 96. 
Menopause, derangement of nervous sys- 
tem during, 432. 
diet during, 432. 
diseases developing at, 433. 
period of, 432. 
Menstruation, diet during, 425, 

disturbances accompanying, and diet, 
425. 



Mental powers, effects on, of overeating, 
135. 
of underfeeding, 149. 

Metabolic carbon and nitrogen balance 
during fasting, 298. 

Metabolism, chemical changes of, classi- 
fied, 286. 

constructive, or anabolism, 286. 
definition of term, 286. 
dependence of life on, 287. 
effect of fasting on, 117. 

experiments in, 118. 
energy, calculation of, from carbon and 
nitrogen balance, Atwater's ex- 
periment, 296. 
factors affecting, acid-forming and base- 
forming elements, 314. 
alcohol as a protein sparer, 306. 
calorimetric method of studying, 295. 
carbohydrates as protein sparers, 300. 
consumption of food, 297. 
fasting, 298. 
fat versus carbohydrates as protein 

sparers, 302. 
gelatin as protein sparer, 305, 
metabolism of mineral substances, 
311. 

metabolism of water, 308. 
nitrogenous diet, 299. 
functions of different organs and tissues 
in, 285. 

general considerations on, 285. 
lipoids in, 220. 
with meat diet, 535. 
mineral, 311. 

acid-forming and base-forming ele- 
ments of diet, 357. 
calcium diets, low and high, 349. 
in disease, 341. 

electrolytic properties of salts, 343, 
importance of, in processes of nutri- 
tion, 358, 
iron salts, 355. 
magnesium salts, 351. 
minerals in typical dietaries, daily 

quantities per man, 342. 
percentage of ash in bones, muscles 

and various organs, 312. 
phosphorus, 352. 
potassium chlorid, 348. 
salt-free diet, 345. 
sodium chlorid, 344. 
sulphur salts, 356. 

and variations in amount of salt in- 
gested, 346. 
nitrogen, in old age, 444, 
nitrogen balance, Neumann's dietary ex- 
periment, 310, 
of overfeeding, excess of proteins and 

carbohydrates, 138. 
"oxidation water" resulting from com- 
bustion of hydrogen in the food, 
309. 



788 



INDEX 



Metabolism, processes of, series of, 287. 
various, 285. 
protein, 327. 
ammonia, 329. 
carbohydrate-free diet, 338. 
catabolism of proteins, 169. 
cellulose diet, 339. 
creatinin, 329. 
deaminization of proteins in amino- 

acids, 169. 
end products of, on both high and low- 
protein diet, 328, 
fat-free diet, 338. 
purin bodies, 329. 
urea, 327. 
uric acid, 329. 

retrograde, or catabolism, 287. 
salt, in disease, 341. 
of starvation, acute, protein, 160. 

pathologj' of, 158. 
of underfeeding, acute, protein, 160. 
in the blood, 162. 
pathology of, 158. 
protein, 153. 
secretion of bile, 162. 
Siven's table showing gradual rise in 
protein intake but with a con- 
stant and sufficient energy intake, 
159. 
in the urine, 162. 
vitaniine rAle in, 224, 229. 
of water, 308. 
Metabolism experiments, balance of income 
and outgo, 288. 
effects of food and work on respiration, 

293. 
exchange of material with standard 

diets, 288. 
respiratory Quotient, 292. 
summary of, income and outgo of 
energy: calories, 291. 
income and outgo of nitrogen and car- 
bon, 290, 296. 
Mexicans, dietary of, 383, 384. 
Miorotirganisms in breast milk, 474. 
Military training camps for boys, rations 
for. Sec Rations, boys' military 
training camos. 
Milk, analysis of changes occurring in fer- 
mentation of, 568, 
boiling of, value of, 493. 
breast. See Breast Milk, 
certified, 489. 

clots of, in cow's and human, 493, 
prevention of, by addition of alkali, 
494. 
coagulation of, 477. 
comparative analysis of human and 

cow's, 490. 
comparative composition of, from dif- 
ferent animals, 4flO. 
composition of, carbohydrates, 494. 
chemical, 491. 
diaatatic ferment, 497. 



Milk, composition of, fat, 493. 
inorganic contents, 495. 
lack of uniformity, 492, 
proteins. 493. 
salts, 496. 
vltamines, 498. 
condensed, in infant feeding, 499. 
description of, 492, 
desiccated, 71. 

desiccation of. See Desiccation of Milk, 
in diet in tropical climates, 394. 
fatless, desiccation of, 15. 
heme modification or adaptation of, in 

infant feeding, 500, 512. 
for infants, reconstruction of desiccated 

milk into, 15. 
malted, in infant feeding, 505, 
pasteurized, in infant feeding, 503. 
sour, composition of, percentages, 566, 
souring of, by lactic acid, 669. 
sterilized, in infant feeding, 602. 
use of, in war, 764. 

varying composition of morning and 
evening, 492, 
Milk cure, 569. 

application of, 570. 
buttermilk cure, 566, 
indications for, 571, 
kumiss cure, 564. 

matzoon, 506. ' 

quantities administered, 571. 
skim milk cure, 572. 
sour milk cure, 567. 
whey cure, 573. 
Mineral metabolism, 311. 

acid-forming and base-forming elements 

of diet, ."^57. 
calcium diets, low and high, 349. 
in disease, 341. 

electrolytic properties of salts, 343. 
importance of, in processes of nutrition, 

358. 
iron salts, 355. 
magnesium salts, 351. 
minerals in typical dietaries, daily quan- 
tities per man. 342. 
percentage of ash in bones, muscles and 

various organs, 312, 
phosphorus, 352. 
potassium chlorid, 348. 
salt-free diet, 346. 
sodium chlorid, 344. 
sulphur salts, 356. 
Minerals in typical dietaries, daily quan- 
tities per man. 342. 
Mitchell, Weir, diet in treatment of neii- 
rasthenia and disorders of mal- 
nutrition independent of organic 
disease. 549. 
Modification or adaptation of milk, home, 

in infant feeding. 506, 512. 
Muscular activity, as factor in food re- 
quirement, 271. 
Glutton broth, preparation of, 598. 



INDEX 



789 



N 



Negroes, dietary of, 382, 384. 
Nestle's food. 50.5. 

Neumann's dietary experiment. 310. 
Neurasthenia, Weir Mitchell diet in treat- 
ment of, 549. 
full dietary, 551. 

synopsis of management of individual 
case, 550. 
Nitrogen, in diet, 321. 
in feces, 328. 

income and outgo of carbon and, in 
metabolism experiments, 290. 296. 
requirement of, for maintenance, 181. 
value of meats as a source of, 174. 
Nitrogen equilibrium, Kayser's table 
showing, when feeding isodyna- 
mic quantities of carbohydrate 
and fat, 303. 
maintenance on fruit diet, 540. 
maintenance of, 323. 
minimum protein necessary to main- 
tenance of, 153. 
Neumann's dietary experiment, 310. 
and protein diet, Benedict on, 189. 
Folin's views on, 187. 
Halliburton on, 189. 
Meltzer on, 189. 
protein requirement, minimum, for 

maintenance of, 194. 
table showing effect of insufficient diet 
with gradual increase in aliment 
until establishment of, 157. 
in tropics, 322. 
Nitrogen-free diet, 325. 
Nitrogen increase in convalescertts, due to 
overfeeding, table emphasizing, 
142. 
Nitrogen metabolism in old age, 444. 
Nitrogenous diet, effect of, on metabolism, 
299. 
increased, effect of, on kidneys, 191. 
Nitrogenous importance of lipoids, 219, 
Nursing, See Breast Feeding. 
Nutrition, disorders of. Weir Mitchell diet 
in treatment of, 549. 
function of carbohydrates in, 301. 
importance of mineral metabolism in 

processes of, 358. 
importance of protein in, 530. 
Nutritive drink for delicate women and 

children, 599. 
Nuts, cooking of, 641. 
digestibility of, 641. 
nutritive value of, 641. 







Oatmeal, use of, in war. 762. 

with beef tea, preparation of, 594. 
Oatmeal mush, preparation of, 009. 
Occupation, and diet, 371. 

and digestion, 94. 

150 



Occupation, protein diet and, 193. 
Oils, use of in preservation of food, 7. 
Old age, and arteriosclerosis, 438. 
arteriosclerosis as sign of, 434. 
cause of, 434, 435. 
definition of, 434. 

diet in, according to Campbell. Dr. 
Harry, 440. 
according to Friedenwald and Ruh- 

riih, 441. 
alimentary pastes: food value, 449. 
in bronchitis, 452. 
caloric value of, 448. 
and condition of teeth, 450. 
idiosyncrasy a factor, 441. 
Kosevi's maintenance ration, 443, 
Langworthy's dietary standard, 443. 
Maurel's maintenance rations, 443. 
meat consumption, 451. 
nature of, 439. 
quantity, 436, 439. 
reduction of fuel value, 445. 
Saundby's daily dietary, 446. 

showing distribution of meals, 447. 
suggestions of Yeo, 452. 
Voit's dietary standard, 442. 
diet for prevention of, 434. 
eliminating and storage powers in, 437. 
exceptions to general rules regarding, 

435. 
means of preventing, 434. 
nitrogen metabolism in, 444. 
pathological changes incident to, 438. 
Olives, dried, 28. 
Onions, dehydrated, 40. 
Osmozone, 62. 

Overeating, in the aged, 137. 
in children, 136. 
chronic, 130. 
in early life, 137. 
effects of, biliousness, 135. 
intestinal toxemia, 135. 
on mental powers, 135. 
habitual, 136. 

individual capacity to cope with, 138. 
meaning of, 127. 
men conspicuous for, in history, 132, 

133, 134. 
moderate, 129. 
occasional, 129. 
tendency to, 128. 
Overfeeding, acute, 128. 
in children, 136. 
chronic, 128. 
of convalescents, 141. 
argument against, 144. 
conclusions on, 145. 
interchange of nitrogen and storage, 
protein and fat in, table showing 
approximate values of, absolute 
and percentage, 143. 
nitrogen increase due to, table empha- 
sizing. 142. 
dangers of, 197. 



790 



INDEX 



Overfeeding, definition of, 138. 
of infants, 510. 
of meats, ailments and disorders due to. 

207. 
metabolism of, excess of proteins and 

carbohydrates, 138. 
prevalence of, 128. 
in youth and early adult life, 197. 
Overmastication. See Bradyphagia. 
"Oxidation water," resulting from com- 
bustion of hydrogen in the food, 
309. 
Oyster juice, preparation of, 598. 
Oyster soup, preparation of, 608. 
Oyster stew, preparation of, 607. 



"Palatability," use of term, 77. 
Parorexia, 119. 

Pasteurized milk, in infant feeding, 503. 
Patent foods. See Proprietary or Patent 

Foods. 
Peaches, dried, 24. 
Pellagra, due to vitamine deficit, 232, 237. 

relation of spoiled corn to, 44. 
Peptonized beverages and foods, prepara- 
tion of. See Recipes, beverages 
and foods. 
Peptonized milk, in infant feeding, 501. 
Persimmon, dried, 28. 
Perversions of appetite. Bee Appetite, per- 
versions of. 
Phosphorus, importance of, 352. 

as building material, 354. 
Phosphorus content of foods, 354. 

relation of vitamines to, 233. 
Pica, 119. 
Playfair's table of requirements for work, 

377. 
Poison, protein, 168. 
Poisoning, from canned goods, 6. 
Polydipsia, 121. 
Polyphagia, 121. 
Potassium chlorid, foods containing, 348. 

importance of, 348. 
Potato flour, 35. 

Potato soup, preparation of, 604. 
Potatoes, dehydrated, 33. 
composition of, 34. 
composition and fuel value of, under 
various methods of preparation, 
34. 
method of dehydration, 33. 
potato flour, 35. 
sweet, dehydration of, 35. 
use of, in war, 764. 
white, value of, 213. 
Poultry, preparation of. Bee Recipes, 

poultry. 
Pregnancy, albuminuria and dropsy com- 
plicating, 426. 
diet during, 425. 

longings for various indigestible arti- * 
cles, 426. 



Prochownick's diet for pregnancy, 428. 
Proprietary or patent foods, 'in infant 
feeding, 504. 
in infant feeding, list of, 508. 
malted milk, 505. 
Nestle's food, 505. 
percentages, 508. 
Protein consumption in United States, 771. 
Protein content, character of diet and. 212. 
Protein deficiency, caution as to. 196. 
Protein diet, efl"ect of, on health and en- 
durance, high protein diet, 169. 
low protein diet, 171. 
on strength and endurance, 192. 
end products of protein metabolism on, 

328. 
high, 169, 325. 

versus low, 185. 
low, 324. 
Baeltz's investigations among the Jap- 
anese. 176. 
Chittenden's investigations, 171. 
,; eff"ect of, on animals, 192. 
Fisher's investigations, 174. 
high versus, 185. 
and nitrogen equilibrium, Benedict on, 
189. 
Folin's views on, 187. 
Halliburton on, 189. 
Meltzer on, 189. 
and occupation, 193. 
reduction of, necessary, 190. 
value of meats as a source of nitroeen. 
174. ** 

Protein digestion, 107. 

ill-effects of absorption of end-products 
of, 198. 
Protein fractions, chemical formation of, 

198. 
Protein metabolism, 327. 
ammonia, 329. 
carbohydrate-free diet, 338. 
catabolism of proteins, 169. 
cellulose diet, 339. 
creatinin, 329. 
deamini/.ation of proteins in amino 

acids, 169. 
end products of, on both high and low 

protein diet, 328. 
fat-free diet, 388. 

governed by tissue requirements, 299. 
purin bodies, 329. 
revolution in conception of, 167. 
of starvation, acute, 160. 
theories of, 203. 
of underfeeding, 153. 
urea, 327. 
uric acid, 329. 

and variations in amount of salt in- 
gested, 346. 
Protein molecule, structure of, 168. 
Protein poison, 168. 

Protein-poor foods, percentages of protein 
in, 326. 



INDEX 



791 



Protein requirement, Chittenden low pro- 
ten dietary, 253. 

determinations of, 253. 

for growing boy, 690. 

minimum to maintain nitrogen equi- 
librium, 194. 

standard for, 180. 
Proteins, amino-acids in, 194. 

animal versus vegetable, 528. 

building up of, 208. 

catabolism of, 169. 

coagulation of, 107. 
by heat, 52. 

combustion of, adapted to intake of, 300. 

concentrated, 70. 

in cow's milk, 493. 

deaminization of, in amino-acids, 169. 

deficiency in, in breast milk, 487. 

differences in suitability for tissue con- 
struction, 202. 

excess of, in metabolism of overfeeding, 
138. 

form of absorption of, 209. 

importance of, in alimentation, 530. 

minimum, necessary to maintain nitro- 
gen equilibrium, 153. 

nature of, 167. 

necessity of, to blood and muscles, 205. 

percentages of, in protein-poor foods, 
326. 

physical absorption of, differences in 
suitability for tissue construction, 
202. 

physical properties of, 201. 
relative absorption, 202. 
qualitative variations in amino-acids of, 
200. 

quantitative differences of, 199. 

relative absorption of, 202. 

relative values of Meat and vegetables, 
204. 

surplus of, from suitable food mate- 
rials, 203. 

of the tissues, interchange of, 209. 

transmutability of, 101, 102. 

vegetable, 212. 

vegetable versus animal, 528. 
Protein sensitization, attention given the- 
ory of, 170. 

condition similar to, produced by over- 
feeding of a particular protein, 
169. 

Protein sparers, alcohol as, 306. 
carbohydrates as, 300. 
carbohydrates and fat in calorimetric 

experiments ( Atwater ) , 304. 
fat versus carbohydrates as, 302. 
gelatin as, 305. 

Protein and starch equivalents, in cereals 
and buckwheats, table of, 391. 
in pulse, in diet of tropical climates, 
table of, 392. 

Protein starvation, effects of, 156. 



Protein structure and properties, chem- 
ical formation of protein frac- 
tions, 198. 
qualitative variations in the amino- 
acids of proteins, 200. 
quantitative differences of proteins, 199. 
Protein tissue, chemical decomposition of, 

158. 
Primes, dried, 22. 

Ptomaine poisoning, from canned goods, 
6. 
due to "high" or slightly tainted game 
or meat, 63. 
Puberty, beginning of period of, 418. 
diet during. See Diet during Puberty, 
improvements desirable in present cur- 

liculum of schools, 420. 
question of stimulants in, 420. 
Puddings, preparation of. See Recipes, 

puddings. 
Puerperiura, diet during, 428. 
Purin bodies, in animal and vegetable ni- 
trogenous bodies, 331. 
chemistry of, 330. 
in food, "^333. 

quantity of, 334. 
occurrence in body, 331, 
production of, in presence of cellular 

processes, 332. 
in protein metabolism, 329. 
source of, 329. 
Purin compounds, solubility of, 330. 
excess of, 335. 
low, 336. 
Purin foods, effect of, on uric acid, 334. 
Purin-free diet, 336. 

dinners suggested by Haig's disciple, 

337. 
indications for, 336. 
to supply albumin, 336. 
Purins, bound, 332. 
endogenous, 331. 
exogenous, 331. 

excretion of, 333. 
free, 332. 

Raisins, methods of preparing, 26. 
Ration, definition of, 666. 
emergency, 666. 
field, 666. 
Filipino, 666. 
garrison, 666. 
haversack, 666. 
supplementing of, 666. 
travel, 666. 
Rations, army, 663. 

for boys' military training camps, 684. 
dearth of statistical material on, 6^4. 
dietary for one week, Fort Terry, New 
York, 686-690. 
showing requisite amounts of ter- 
nary food elements and fuel or 
energy value in calories, 692-697. 



m 



INDEX 



Rations, for boys' military training camps, 
importance of sutticient vitamine 
principles, 691. 
protein requirement, 690. 
for boys' private boarding school, 685. 
of foreign armies, 697. 

comparative, Austrian, 715. 
English, 716. 
French, 716. 
German, 716. 
Italian, 717. 
Japanese, 717. 
Russian, 717. 
comparative tables of eight countries, 

698. 699. 
emergency ration, 700. 
of France, 702. 

amount given out and carried at 

one time, 708. 
authorized extraordinary supple- 
ments, 706. 
authorized substitutive equivalents, 

705. 
in the cavalry, 708. 
commutation of, in times of peace, 

706. 
components of garrison and fleld 

rations, 702. 
composition of, 704. 
dailv allowance for additional sup- 
plies, 706. 
meat supply, 711. 
methods of cooking in the trenches, 

703. 
normal, 707. 

in peace and in war, 703. 
reserve, 707. 
strong, 707. 
trains, 709. 
in the trenches, 706. 
of Germany, 700. 
of Great Britain, 713, 748. 

during Boer War, 723. 
of Japan, 701. 
meat allowance aa compared with 

that of U. S. army, 697. 
of Russia, 701. 
systems of supply, 714. 
of French navy, 729. 
military, conclusions regarding compo- 
sition and food value of (Har- 
vard), 722. 
in military prison camps, 718. 
menu taken from Camp Guterslohe 
for one week, officers' section, 
719. 
menu taken from Camp Munster for 

one week, 718. 
weekly diet sheet typical of period 
prior to stringency in foodstuffs, 
721. 
typical of period of stringency in 
foodstuffs, 721. 
navy, comparative nutritive energy of 
American and foreign, 729. 



Rations, U. S. army, additional articles 
consumed, 665. 
allowance and consumption per man, 

665. 
company dietaries, 675. 
company dietary at a southern post, 
676. 
at a western post, 675. 
component parts of, 681, 726, 727. 
concentrated foods, 674. 
dehydration of foods, 37. 
emergency, 673. 
field ration, 670. 
Filipino ration, 672. 
garrison ration, component and sub- 
stitutive articles and quantities, 
667. 
Colonel Harvard on, 666, 668, 669. 
haversack ration, 671. 
ordering of, 664. 
past and present, 681, 

amount and kind of food, 682. 
cases of rheumatism among veter- 
ans, 683. 
during the Civil War, 683. 
present policy of improvement, 682. 
percentage of waste in, 605. 
quantity of stores required for one 
dav's subsistence of 150,000 men 
in fleld, 683. 
savings, 672. 
selection of, 674. 
ten days' ration uncooked food for an 

average daily of 440.4 men, 664. 
travel ration, 672. 
in tropics, 676. 
tropical dietaries, 676. 

average nutrient composition of, 

680. 
tables of, 678, 679. 
U. S. navy, 724. 
commissary store, establishment and 

administration, 734. 
daily and weekly, 725. 
e.xtra allowance, 723, 728. 
general mess, bakers, 734. 
commissary, 732. 
commissary stewards, 733. 
cooks, 733. 

organization and administration, 
730. 
preparation of food, cooking, 737. 
galley, 737. 
ration, 736. 
study and arrangement of, from point 
of view of efficient service, 728. 
Recipes, beverages, with egg and alcohol, 
brandy and egg mixture, 586. 
caudle, 587. 
egg flip, 587. 
egg-nog, 585. 586, 587. 
egg-nog, beef-tea, 587. 
egg and grape juice, 587. 
milk punch, 587. 
wine, mulled, 588. 



INDEX 



793 



Recipes, beverages, with egg and alcohol, 
wine whey, 588. 
nutritious, albumin water, 580, 581. 

albuminized milk, 583. 

caudle, 581. 

cocoa, 582. 

coffee, 582. 

diluents, various, 584. 

egg and buttermilk mixture, 584. 

egg broth, 581. 

egg cordial, 581. 

egg drink. 623. 

egg flip, 585. 

grape juice, 584. 

junket, vanilla, bitter almond or 
strawberry, 584. 

kumiss, 582, 583. 

milk, albuminized, 583. 
almond, 582. 

and cinnamon drink, 583. 
and other diluents, 584. 
and Irish moss, 583. 

milk lemonade, 584. 

milk mixture, 583. 

milk porridge, 585. 

whey, lemon, 582. 
plain, apple water, 578. 

barley water, 580. 

currant juice (t'itch), 578. 

imperial drink, 579. 

lemonades, 579. 

lime water, 578. 

linseed tea, 580. 

orangeade, 579. 

orgeat, 580. 

tamarind water, 578. 

toast water, 580. 
blancmange, 645. 

chocolate or cocoa, 653. 
Irish-moss, 646. 
bouillon, American, 601. 
boiling of meat for, 56. 
bottle, 601. 
clam, 600. 

clam bouillon bisque, 600. 
general procedure for, 56. 
plain, 600. 
bread, aleuronat bread, 657. 

bran muHin for constipation, 613. 

brown, 612. 

cornmeal gems, 614. 

for diabetics, almond biscuit, 660. 

bran, 657. 

bran cakes, Camplin's, 657. 

gum gluten, 656. 

gum gluten muffins, 657. 

waffles, 658. 

Drexel Institute recipe, 612. 
graham, 613. 
nut brown, 612. 
pulled, 613. 
toast, 614. 

cream. 615. 

milk, 614. 



Recipes, white gems, 613. 
whole-wheat, 612. 
zwieback, 613. 
broths, 597. 
American, 601. 
beef, 598. 

with egg gruel, 618, 

and grain, 599. 

with poached eggs, 599. 
boiling of meat for, 56. 
cliicken, 598. 
clam, 598. 
clam juice, 598. 
egg, 581. 
in general, 56. 
invalid, 599. 
mutton, 598. 
mutton, without meat, 599. 

with vegetables, 599. 
nutritive drink for delicate women 

and children, 599. 
ovster juice, 598. 
veal, 598. 

cakes, for diabetics, aleuronat and al- 
mond, 659. 

almond cakes, 658. 659. 

bran, Camplin's, 657. 

cocoanut, 659, 661. 

cocoanut and almond, 661. 
cereal foods, flour ball, 617. 
general, 615. 
gruels, arrowroot, 619. 

barley, 619. 

with beef extract, 618. 

barley meal, 619. 

barley and oatmeal jelly, 618. 

cornmeal gruel, 617, 618. 

cracker gruel, 616, 617. 

egg, 618. 

farina, 616. 

flour, 616. 

flour, or thickened milk, 619. 

flour ball gruel, 617. 

gluten, 618. 

imperial granum, 616, 

meal soup, 617. 

oatmeal, 616. 

oatmeal, 620. 

oatmeal and barley jelly, 618. 

port wine, 619. 

Racahout des Arabes. 617. 
length of time for cooking. 616. 
for constipation, bran muffins, 613. 
custards, baked, 650. 
baked or cup, 648. 
chocolate, 649. 
cocoa junket, 650. 
peach meringue, 649. 
rennet, or plain junket, 650. 
rules for, 647. 
sauce, 648. 
savorv, 648. 
soft. 647, 650. 
souffle, 649. 



794 



INDEX 



Recipes, desserts. See Blancmange, Cus- 
tards, Ice Cream, Jellies, Junkets, 
Puddings, 
for diabetic foods, aleuronat bread, 657. 

aleuronat pancakes, 660. 

aleuronat and almond cakes, 659. 

aleuronat and suet pudding, 660. 

almond biscuit, 660. 

almond cakes, 658, 659. 

almond pudding, 662. 

bran cakes, Camplin's, 657. 

cocoanut and almond cakes, 661. 

cocoanut cakes, 659, 661. 

cocoanut pancakes, 661. 

cocoanut pudding, 662. 

gum gluten bread, 656. 

gum gluten muifms, 657. 

waffles, 658. 
dressings, cream, 638. 

mayonnaise, 637. 
dumplings, egg, 607. 

farina, 610, 611. 

potato, 611. 
for dyspeptics, jelly, 643. 
eggs, cooking and digestibility of, 620L 

egg drinks. See Beverages, nutritious, 
and Beverages, egg and alcohol. 

egg gruel,- 618. 

hard-cooked, 620. 

omelet, 621. 

omelet souffle, 621. 

poached, 623. 
with cheese, 624. 

prairie oyster, 622. 

rumbled,' 623. 

snowball, 622. 

soft-cooked, 621. 
farinaceous foods, cornmeal mush, 609. 

farina dumplings, 610, 611. 

hominy mush, 609. 

macaroni, boiled, 610. 
and rice, 610. 

oatmeal mush for children and in- 
valids, 609. 

potato dumplings, 611. 

rice, boiled, 608. 

Italian (with cheese), 610. 
and macaroni, 610. 
plain boiled, 610. 
fish, baked, 624. 
in butter, 626. 

dietary value of, 624. 

frying of, 66. 

oysters, broiled, 627. 
panned, 627. 

sole or whiting, steamed, 625. 

souffle, 627. 

steamed sole or whiting, 625. 

stewe^, 625. 
fruit ice creams. See Ice Cream, 
fruits, apples, baked, 639. 

apricot and prune sauce, 639. 

flgi^ stewed, 640. 

orange, 640. 

peach meringue, 649. 



Recipes, fruits, pineapple, 640. 
pineapple cream, 652. 
prunes, stewed, 640. 
gruels, egg, 618. 

See also Cereal Foods, 
ice cream, caramel, 656. 
chocolate, 655. 
junket, 655. 
peach, 655. 
strawberry, 655. 
vanilla, 656. 
jellies, 642. 

calf's foot, 643. 

chicken, 642. 

coffee, nutritious, 646. 

cream, or blancmange, 645. 

for dyspeptics, 643. 

general directions for dishes made 

with gelatin, 644. 
Irish-moss blancmange, 646. 
lemon, 645. 
meat, 642. 

with gelatin, 647. 
with Irish moss, 647. 
with tapioca, 647. 
milk, 644, 646. 
orange, 645. 
veal-bone, 642. 
wine, 645. 

sweet, from gelatin, 645. 
junket ice cream, 655. 
junkets, cocoa, 650. 

plain, or rennet custard, 650. 
vanilla, bitter almond or strawberry, 
584. 
meat juices, 595. 
beef essence, 597. 

beef juice (Bartholow, Cautley and 
Ringer), 596. 
cold. 597. 
beef teas, 593-595. 

meat extract, iced (Ziemssen), 597. 
meat- juice mince (Watson), 596. 
Watson's home-made, 595. 
meat jellies. See Jellies, 
meat soups. See Soups, 
meats, baking of, 60. 

beef, Hapiburger steak, 632. 
beef pulp, 631. 
beef quenelles, 631. 
raw, beefsteak, 633. 

general method of preparing, 632. 
juice, 633. 

with milk and sugar, 633. 
soup, 633. 

8UCCUS carnis (meat juice), 633. 
boiling of, 56. 
braising of, 64. 
broiling of, 63, 630. 
frying of, 59. 

general rules for preparing, 630. 
grilling of, 63. 
pan-broiling of, 631. 
roasting of, 630. 
sweetbreads, stewed, 632. 



INDEX 



795 



Recipes, meats, veal, roast, 631. 
venison, roast, 632. 
meringues, peach, 649. 
mush. See Farinaceous Foods, 
nuts, chestnut puree, 641. 
cooking of, 641, 
digestibility of, 641. 
nutritive value of, 641. 
pancakes, for diabetics, aleuronat, 660. 

cocoanut, 661. 
peptonized and predigested foods, 588. 
cereals partially digested, prepared at 

table, 589. 
grape juice whey, 593. 
junket, or curds and vi'hey, 592. 
cocoa, 592. 
coffee, 592. 
with egg, 592. 
iodized, 593. 

milk, partially peptonized, 589. 

peptonized, 590. 
milk gruel, peptonized, 591. 
milk jelly, peptonized, 591. 
milk lemonade, peptonized, 591. 
milk punch, peptonized, 591. 
peptonized beef, 588. 
peptonized oysters, 589. 
whey, 593. 

grape juice, 593. 
poultry, broilers, boiled. 629. 

stewed or potted, 629. 
capons. 629. 
chicken, broiled, 628. 
chicken puree, 638. 
chicken salad, 628. 
flesh of, 628. 
partridge, stewed, 629. 
roast, 629. 
squabs, boiled, 629. 
stewed or potted, 629. 

puddings, aleuronat and suet, for dia- 
betics, 660. 
almond, for diabetics, 662. 
arrowroot, 651. 
bread, 651. 

and butter, baked, 654. 
plain, 653. 
chocolate or cocoa blancmange, 653. 
cocoanut, for diabetics, 662. 
cornstarch, 652. 
pineapple cream, 652. 
rice, 651. 

and egg, 651. 
plain, 652. 
sponge, 654. 
tapioca and sago, 653. 
purees, chicken, 638. 
endive, 639. 
lettuce, 638. 
red cabbage, 639. 
salads, chicken, 628. 
sauces, custard, 648. 

for vegetables, 635. 
soups, egg dumpling, 607. 



Recipes, soups, fish, 606. 
oyster soup, 608. 
oyster stew, 607. 
meat, 605. 

first stock for clear brown soup, 

606. 
general directions for, 605. 
raw-beef, 633. 
sweetbread soup, 607. 
vegetable, 601. 
brown, 605. 
Brunoise, 604. 
clear, or consomme, 603. 
consomme and egg, 604. 
cream-of-celery, 602. 
cream-of-potato, 602. 
cream-of-tomato, 601. 
Julienne, 602. 
lentil, 604. 
without meat, 601. 
potato, 604. 
tapioca, 602. 
white, 603. 
toast, 614. 
cream, 615, 
milk, 614. 
vegetables, asparagus, 635. 
carrots, 636. 
cauliflower, 636. 
cauliflower a I'Indienne, 636. 
dressings, cream, 638. 

mayonnaise, 637. 
endive puree, 639 
general rules for cooking, 634. 
lettuce puree, 638. 
oyster plant, 635. 
peas, green, 636. 
potatoes, mashed, 636. 
red cabbage puree, 639, 
sauce for, 635. 
spinach, 635, 
string beans, 636, 

time-table for cooking, in water, 634, 
tomato savory, 637. 
Reducing dietary, 559. 
Refrigeration. See Cold Storage. 
Reservation of foods, 102. 
Respiration, effects of food and work on, 

293. 
Respiratory quotient in metabolism, 292. 

calculation of, 294. 
Rheumatoid arthritis, due to chronic in- 
testinal stasis, 460. 
Rice, and vitamines, 228, 
Richards' ration for sedentary occupa- 
tions, 424, 
Roasting of meat, comparison of, with 
baking, 60. 
process of, 61. 
temperature for, 62, 
Rubner's table showing losses and avail- 
able energy, 255, 
Rumination, 121. 
Russia, army rations of, 701. 
daily, 717. 



796 



IXDEX 



s 



Salines, transmutability of, 99. 
Salisbury diet, 536. 

modified, 537. 
Salivary digestion, time and manner of, 

85. 
Salsify, dehydration of, 37. 
Salt, abuse of, 347. 

action of, in water, in boiling of meats 

and fish, 57. 
craving for, relation of diet to, 347. 
Salt-free diet, 345. 
Salt metabolism, in disease, 341. 
Salting of food, as agency of preservation, 

3. 
Salts, calcium, 349. 
in cow's milk, 496. 
electrolytic properties of, 343. 
exchange of, in body, sodium chlorid 

and potassiiuu chlorid, 348. 
iron, 355. 
magnesium, 351. 
phosphorus, 352. 
potassium chlorid, 348. 
sodium chlorid, 344. 
sulphur, 356. 
Saundby's daily dietary for the aged, 446. 

showing distribution of meals, 447. 
School children, diet of, 414. 416. 

and hvgienic condition of buildings for, 

417. 
medical inspection of, 417. 
Scurvy, due to deprivation of organic 
acids, 315. 
in infants, due to destruction of vita- 
mines in food, 498. 
relation of diet to, 358. 
Seasickness, 122. 

Secretions, internal, effect on, of chronic 
intestinal stasis, 462. 
of woman, as influencing food require- 
ment, 268. 
Sedentary occupations, diet in, 421. 
Senility, premature, 433. 
Sense, of taste, 76. 

and associated senses, 77. 
Senses, rfile of, in pleasure of eating. 75. 
Sherman's estimates of Atwater's experi- 
ments for calculation of energy 
metabolism, 297. 
Singers, diet for, 560. 
Skim milk cure, 572. 
Sleep, and digestion, 93. 
Smoking of food, process of, 2. 
Sodium chlorid, consumption of, 344. 
importance of, in diet, 344. 
percentage of, in foods, 346. 
retention of, in tissues, 345. 
See also Salt. 
Sodium equilibrium, maintenance of, 348. 
Soldiers, marching, energy expended by, 
382. 
food consumed by, per day, 382. 



Soldiers' rations. See Rations. 

Soups, value of, in dietary, 605. 

Sour milk, composition of, percentages, 
566. 

Sour milk cure, 567. 

Souring of milk by lactic acid, 569. 

Soy bean flour, 43. 

Soy beans, dehydration of, 42. 

Starch and protein equivalents, in cereals 
and buckwheats in diet of trop- 
ical climates, table of, 391. 
in pulse, in diet of tropical climates, 
table of, 392. 

Starches, dextrinization and gelatinization 
of, by heat, 52. 

Starr's table of dietetic needs in child- 
hood, 410. 

Starvation, account of miseries of, 110. 
acute, protein metabolism of, 160. 
death from, in relation to body weight, 

definition and process of, 109. 

duration of life under, 109, 147. 

metabolism of, pathology of, 158. 

percentage of loss of body weight and of 
loss in fat, 111. 

period of time during which difi"erent 
individuals can subsist witliout 
food, factors influencing, 109. 

sensations during, 147. 
Stauf process of desiccation of milk, 14. 
Steaming of meat, 65. 
Sterilized milk, advantages of, 503. 

disadvantages of, 503. 

in infant feeding, among the poor, 502. 

process of, 503. 
Sterilization of food, as means of preser- 
vation, 6. 
Stewing of meat, difference between boil- 
ing and, 57. 

procedure for, 58. 
Stimulants, in puberty, 420. 
Strength, effect of protein diet on, 192. 
Substitutes for food, 108. 
Sugar, action on, of heat, 52. 

consumption of, in United States, 771. 

use of, in preservation of food, 7. 
in war, 765. 
Sulphur salts, 356. 

in foods, 356. 
Sun-drying of fruit, 21. 
Superalimentation, acute, 128. 

in children, 136. 

chronic, 128. 

prevalence of, 129. 

See also Overfeeding. 
Sweets, craving for, by adolescents, 420. 

in diet of tropical climates, 398. 



Tachyphagia, definition .of, 84. 
ill effects of, 84, 85. 



INDEX 



797 



Taste, associated senses, 77. 

use of term, 76. 
Teeth, condition of. in old age, 450. 
Tellier method of dehydration of meat, 10. 
Temperature of tiie body, heat production 
during rest, 279. 
in sleep calculated for twenty-four 
hours, table of, 277. 
regulation of, 274. 
chemical, 275. 

gaseous exchange per minute and heat 
production in twenty-four hours, 
during absolute muscular rest in 
fasting condition, 280. 
involuntary, 274. 
physical, 275. 
resume of, 279. 
surface areas of skin in, 276. 
regulation of heat loss, 276. 
Thirst, excessive, or polydipsia, 121. 
Thirst quenchers, 562. 

Tissue construction, differences in suitabil- 
ity of proteins for, 202. 
Toast, preparation of. See Recipes. 
Toxemia, intestinal, due to overeating, 

135. 
Training, general principles of, 552. 

length of time necessary for, 55-3. 
Training camp, boys' military, rations for. 
See Rations, for boys' military 
training camps. 
Training diet, basis of, 552. 

dietary studies (fi university boat crews, 

555. 
food included in, 553. 
general difference between food of ath- 
letes and other people, 557. 
necessity and object of, 552. 
for one day for summer races, Oxford 

and Cambridge, 556. 
for one day for winter races, Oxford 

and Cambridge, 557. 
summing up of researches and experi- 
ments of Atwater and Bryant, 
557, 558. 
of Yale training crew, 554. 
Transmutability of foods, carbohydrates, 
101. 
hydrocarbons, 100, 101. 
proteins, 101, 102. 
salines, 99. 
Tropical climates, alcohol in, 401. 
beverages in. 405. 

diet in. See Diet in Tropical Climates. 
Tropical dietaries, in U. S. army, 676. 
Tropical dieases, due to meat eating, 179. 
Tuberculosis, meat diet in treatment of, 
534. 
treatment of, by zymotherapy, 538. 
Tuberculous children, dietary for, 413. 
Tubers, starch-vielding, dehydration of, 

36. 
Tufnell's diet for treatment of aortic and 
other aneurisms, 547. 



Turnips, dehydration of, 37. 
Typhoid bacilli, in breast milk, 474. 

U 

Ulcer of stomach and duodenum, due to 

clironic intestinal stasis, 461. 
Undereating, caution against, 197. 

coupled with indigestion, 196. 
Underfeeding, acute, protein metabolism 
of, 160. 
caloric deficit of gravest import in, 148. 
cause and prevalence of, 145, 146. 
chronic or habitual, 146. 
conclusions on, 163. 
consumption of energy in, 160. 
and crime, 152, 153. 
maleficent sequences of, 148. 
crime, 152, 153. 
on digestive organs, 152. 
in diminishing resistance to cold and 

exposure, 151. 
drinking, 152. 

increased liability to disease, 151. 
mental and phjsical deterioration, 

149. 
sapping of vital forces, 151. 
in women and children, 150. 
metabolism of, in the blood, 162. 
consumption of energy in, 160. 
pathology of, 158. 
protein metabolism, 153, 
secretion of bile, 162. 
Siven's table showing gradual rise in 
protein intake but with a con- 
stant and sufficient energy intake, 
159. 
in the urine, 162. 
prevalence of, in all countries, 150. 
in laboring population of England, 

149. 
in laboring population of Scotland, 
150. 
relationship of, to disease, 151, 152. 
Undernutrition, long-continued, 115. 

temporary, 115. 
Uric acid, effect of purin foods on, 334. 
origin of, 335. 

in protein metabolism, 329. 
Urine, effect of underfeeding on, 162. 



Vegetable diet, disadvantages of, low pro- 
tein alimentation, 529. 

and energy, 524. 

all food constituents contained in, 522. 

and health, 525. , 

history of, 520. 

indications for, 523. 

Jaffa's vegetarian dietary, 542. 

lacto vegetarian diet, 521. 

opinions of Porphvre and Seneca on, 
527. 



798 



iKDEX 



Vegetable diet, opposed to scheme of diet, 
523. 
partial, necessity of, 527. 
and question .of fecudity or sterility, 

531. 
reasons for, 520. 
summary of main points in favor of and 

against, 531. 
vegetable versus animal protein, 528. 
Wait's vegetarian and fat dietary, 528. 
Vegetable foods, cooking of, 67. See also 
Cooking of Vegetables, 
digestibility of, 107. 
Vegetable flours, use of, 44. 
Vegetable protein, 212. 
Vegetable protein, versus animal protein, 

528. 
Vegetable soups. See Soups, vegetable. 
Vegetables, dehydration of, 11. 

See also Dehydration of Vegetables, 
desiccation of, as means of food concen- 
tration, 70. 
in diet of tropical climates, 390. 
drying of, as means of food concentra- 
tion, 70. 
necessity of, in diet, 527. 
preparation of. See Recipes, vegetables, 
preservation of, by dehydration, 9. 

by drying, 2. 
waste of, in America, 10. 
Vegetarianism. See Vegetable Diet. 
Vinegar, use of, in preservation of food, 7. 
Vitamine content of foods, 226. 
phvsiological estimation of, 232. 
refative, table of, 226. 
Vitamines. antineuritis, 223. 231. 
beri-beri due to lack of, 230. 
in cow's milk, 498. 
destructive action of heat on, 222. 
isolation of, 221. 
in metabolism, 224, 229. 
nature of, 221. 
and pellagra, 232, 237. 
pharmacological properties of, 222. 
physiological properties of, 222. 
relation of, to phosphorus content of 

foods, 233. 
scurvy in infants due to destruction of, 

498. 
tables showing effect of whole grain and 
of highly milled cereals on fowls, 
235. 
in well-balanced dietary, 224. 
Voit'a standard dietary for aged persons, 
442. 



W 



Wait's vegetarian and fat dietary, 528. 
War, food economics in. See Food Econo- 
mics in War. 
food situation in countries at. iSee Food 
Situations. 
Waste of foodstuffs, economically, 103. 
fats. 105. 

physiologically, 104. 
nutrient, percentage of, in ordinary 
mixed diet, 106. 
Water, drinking of, witli meals, 88. 
importance of, to infants, 497. 
metabolism of, 308. 
Weaning, duration of, 483. 
false indications for, 485. 
Weight of body, food requirement propor- 
tionate to. 266. 
Weight and height, comparative, of chil- 
dren, table of, 412. 
relation of, 363. 

at varying ages, standard, table of, 364. 
Weir Mitchell diet in treatment of neu- 
rasthenia and disorders of mal- 
nutrition independent of organic 
disease, 549. 
Wheat, production of, in United States, 
769. 

use of, in war, 759. 
Whev cure, 573. 

Work, effects of food and, on respiration, 
293. 

and food, 79. 

influence of, on food required, 184. 

Playfair's table of requirements for, 377. 



Xanthin, formation of, 332. 



Yeast, dehvdration of, 45. 
Yolk cure,*563. . 



Zymotherapy, 538. 



(2) 




GO U 

00 o 

I 



• 



CM 



o 



03 



« 



5 ? 



University of Toronto 
Dbrary 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index FUe" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



HilMiii il 






HO 



.CO 



M'.X 



hiiil 



c 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dietotherapychem01fitcuoft 



DIETOTHERAPY 



I « 



DIETOTHERAPY 



CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 
CLASSIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF FOODS 



BY 

WILLIAM EDWARD FITCH, M.D. 

MAJOR MED. RES. CORPS, U. S. A. 

FORMERLY LECTURER ON SURGERY, FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE; 

ASSISTANT ATTENDING GYNECOLOGIST PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL DI.SPEN- 

SARY; ATTENDING PHYSICIAN TO THE VANDERBILT CLINIC, 

COLLEGE PHYS. & SURGS., NEW YORK CITY 



AND 

FORTY CONTRIBUTORS 



VOLUME I 




V. 



I 50077. 



g-. 5. 5 3 



PUBLISHED WITH THE PERMISSION OF THE 
SURGEON GENERAL OF THE ARMY 



SECOND EDITION, REVISED 

« 

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 



NEW YORK 



LONDON 



1922 



Copyright, 1918, 1922, by 
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 



Printed in the United States of America 



PREFACE 

While much has been written of late on the subject of nutrition and 
dietetics, it is widely scattered through various books, journals, pamphlets, 
and government and scientific reports, which are not readily accessible 
nor sufficiently comprehensive to furnish the physician with a foundation 
upon which to build a practical working knowledge of the scientific ap- 
plication of foods in either health, or diseased conditions. Besides, much 
of this matter is too ultrascientific to be of practical value to the busy 
physician. !^Ioreover, in actual practice the physician is often confronted 
with many cases where a knowledge of the approximate caloric value 
of foodstuffs, as well as of the proper kind and dosage, will be of far 
greater value to him than any knowledge of the therapeutic action of 
drugs. This knowledge is beginning to sprinkle down upon the students 
of nutrition like the plenteous showers from Heaven — too fast, indeed, 
for assimilation — but the excess is being collected in the reservoirs of 
trophotherapeutic knowledge from which only those who understand may 
drink intelligently. 

In order to understand the rationale of nutrition, a working knowl- 
edge of the chemical changes which the foods undergo in the body is 
necessary. Therefore the body must be regarded as a human laboratory 
of nicely balanced chemical reactions. This knowledge of physiological 
chemistry is so essential that much space is devoted to the subject in Vol- 
ume I, embracing a concise presentation of the fundamental principles, 
including the most essential facts of physiological chemistry, with a brief 
but succinct description of the digestive organs, explaining the special 
functions of each in the process of digestion, and graphically describing the 
physiology of the absorption of foods. Without such a knowledge of the 
chemistry and physiology of digestion, many of the statements with regard 
to nutrition would convey but the most vague ideas to the reader. 

Life can proceed in a normal manner only when the body cells are 
supplied with a well-balanced dietary suitable for their needs. This de- 
mands a certain number of heat units or calories daily, supplied from the 
ternary food elements in the proper proportion of protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate. To enable each cell in the body to maintain its proper place in 

V 



vi PREFACE 

the human edifice according to its architectural specification, it must be 
supplied with building stones of a proper pattern. These building stones 
are the amino-acids contained in all protein foods, whether from the vege- 
table or animal kingdom, although the kind and proportion are not always 
the same. Biological experiment has once for all definitely shown that 
life, growth and health cannot be maintained when certain of these amino- 
acids are lacking. It is also a well-known physiological axiom that life 
cannot be supported on foods deficient in inorganic salts. It is recognized 
at the present time that something more is essential for the maintenance, 
growth and well-being of man than protein, fat, carbohydrate, mineral 
salts, etc. Foods must contain a minute proportion of certain accessory 
substances, which Funk and his followers have described as '' vitamines." 
When these are deficient, or absent from the dietary, the immature body 
fails to grow, the mature body does not maintain its normal state of health, 
and in any stage of growth, manifestations of disease soon appear. 
We know, for instance, that fresh milk prevents scurvy, and that boiled 
milk will produce this disease ; that oatmeal causes more rapid and greater 
growth than bread made from the patent roller process flour ; that whole- 
meal bread causes a greater growth than white bread; and that deficiency 
of vitamines in the foodstuffs causes beriberi, scurvy and some other 
diseases. Vitamines are beginning to be regarded as a sine qua non of 
proper nutrition. The subject is at present little understood, but it is 
so far-reaching that it involves a large proportion of the foods of civilized 
man. The lipoidal constituents of the diet, and the role these substances 
play in the life and metabolism of the cells, brings into prominence certain 
groups of disease due to phosphorus deficiency. Enzymes and the striking 
specificity of the lipoids have been studied of late by eminent physiolo- 
gists, and the insufficiency of certain proteins has been pointed out by 
Osborne and Mendel, while the vitamines have been most carefully studied 
by Funk, Macallum and Vedder during the last few years, all of which 
investigations have added to the advancement of dietetics. Since these 
discoveries are so important, and since as much seems to depend upon 
these accessory bodies — the vitamines, enzymes and lipoids — as on the 
primary elements of the diet, an attempt has been made in Volume II 
to give an account of the researches into these subjects, and to place the 
results in a proper light. 

The subject of dietotherapy has not received the attention in medical 
literature it deserves, neither has it been accorded the prominence in the 
curriculum of medical schools which its importance demands; therefore, 
the subject has been and still is sadly neglected by the medical profession. 



PREFACE vii 

Indeed, it is one of the most deplorably neglected subjects in the whole 
domain of medicine. While it is true that the question is more widely 
appreciated than formerly, yet the average practitioner is unable to tell 
the exact fuel value of a glass of lemon jelly or the definite amount of the 
various elements of food substances contained in a pound of beef; he 
might not be able to recognize the necessity for maintaining a carbo- 
hydrate, fat and protein balance, nor how to do it ; he might not clearly 
understand how the metabolism in certain diseases differs from that of a 
healthy individual, nor appreciate what pathological processes take place 
in the alimentary canal and other parts of the body, that may render 
digestion and assimilation of particular foodstuffs difficult or impossible. 
Functional pathology has supplied the information required in the latter, 
while the actual, calorimetric study of metabolic processes in disease is 
illuminating the former. 

I have undertaken the preparation of the present work with the pur- 
pose of overcoming these shortcomings, and of supplying the needs of the 
practitioner of medicine, the dietitian, the hospital interne and medical 
student, as well as of furnishing a reference work for the Domestic Sci- 
ence and l^urses' Training Schools. 

This work is the outcome of nearly two decades of laboratory research 
and clinical investigation of the practical application of the principles 
of trophotherapy to the science of nutrition in both health and disease. 
The purpose of the work, from a purely therapeutic standpoint, is to 
awaken in the mind of the general practitioner the great importance for 
a biochemic study of nutrition, and to encourage in him a line of inquiry 
leading to a thorough understanding of the subject of tropholog\', tropho- 
dynamics and trophotherapy. 

My aim in presenting a work on this subject in extenso is to produce 
a book so complete that few questions which may confront the physician 
or dietitian, pertaining to trophology, trophodynamics and trophotherapy, 
will remain unanswered. Recently, nutrition and dietetics have been 
placed upon a scientific basis, and in the future the thoughtful physician 
will realize that a knowledge of the proper kind and dosage of foods is 
of as great importance as any knowledge of therapeutics. 

I long since realized that, to produce a work of this kind, compris- 
ing all that is known or worth knowing, I must invite the cooperation of 
specialists in the science of nutrition. The authors who have honored 
me by collaborating and by writing certain chapters were selected be- 
cause I considered them thoroughly equipped and able to write authori- 
tatively upon the subjects assigned them. Their names, their reputations, 



viii PREFACE 

and their literary productions are a guarantee for the quality of their 
contributions. My best thanks are due to all of these men for their ready 
cooperation, for the manner in which they have carried out the plan of 
the work, and for the time and labor they so cheerfully gave, often at great 
personal inconvenience. The readiness with which they complied with 
my request for assistance has rendered my own task an easy and pleasant 
one. 

It is with grateful appreciation that I extend thanks to Prof. W. B. 
Cannon for reading the chapters, ^^The Mechanical Processes of Diges- 
tion" and "The Hygiene of Eating," and to Professor Donald D. Van 
Slyke for reading the chapters, "Protein and Nutrition" and "General 
Sitologic and Mineral Metabolism." I acknowledge special obligations 
to Prof. Carl Voegtlin for many valuable suggestions concerning the 
vitamine content of foodstuffs and its bearing on pellagra. Moreover, I 
also desire to express my obligations to Dr. Harvey W. Wiley for care- 
fully reading and improving the chapter on Vegetable Foods. 

The citation of authorities for facts that are universally established 
is not considered necessary. It may seem to appear, in some instances, 
that scant credit is accorded to many workers from whose writings I have 
borrowed thoughts, results, sometimes words or even sentences to bridge 
the gap in my own knowledge, but at the end of each chapter will be found 
a numbered list of references in loco; this is followed by a bibliography 
for the convenience of those who may wish to go deeper into the subject. 
In every case I have endeavored to make suitable acknowledgment to the 
proper source, and if this has not been done in any instance, it is a lapsus 
valami, and not intentional. 

W. E. Fitch. 

New York City. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

During recent years no subject in medicine has received the same 
amount of considerate attention as dietetics and the study of nutrition. 
Laboratory research and clinical investigation have placed Dietotherapy 
upon a scientific basis, and the thoughtful physician must, now, realize 
that a thorough understanding of the proper kinds, and dosage of foods 
will be of as great value to him as any knowledge of therapeutics. 

The rapid progress of the newer knowledge of nutrition, since the ap- 
pearance of the first edition, has made it necessary to entirely recast and 
rewrite the chapter on Vitamines; their necessity in the dietary; their 
classification ; the foodstuffs in which vitamines A, B and C prevail, and 
the peculiar action of each in the intricate process of nutrition; and to 
rewrite anew the entire chapter on Deficiency Diseases, including Beri- 
beri, Scurvy, Rickets, and Pellagra, incorporating the latest findings of 
research workers and nutrition laboratories of this and other countries. 
A number of new additions have been made to the text, among which are 
Food Preservation, Dehydration, The Karell Cure, Oxaluria and numer- 
ous minor changes and emendations, throughout the work, to bring it 
abreast with the recent advances in the science of nutrition. The oppor- 
tunity has been taken to eliminate typographical errors, and to change 
the wording in certain paragraphs where there was ambiguity of statement. 

The cordial reception of the first edition of this work has been particu- 
larly gratifying to the author, indicating that the results of his efforts to 
awaken in the minds of the general practitioner the great importance for 
a biochemic study of nutrition, has met with the approval of the profession. 
This evidence of appreciation has added greatly to the endeavor to make 
this edition of more scientific interest and practical value than the first, 



X PKEFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

and if this work should by chance stimulate further research into the 
science of trophologj, trophodynamics and trophotherapy, the author's 
most cherished wish will have been attained. He also avails himself of 
the opportunity to thank his colleagues for many valuable suggestions and 
for their encouraging commendation of the work. Acknowledgment is 
also made to Doctors A. B. Macallum and Casimir Funk for their valued 
collaboration in this revision. 

W. E. Fitch 
New York City 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS 



J. W. AMESSE, M.D. 
Denver 

A. EVERETT AUSTIN, A.B., A.M., M.D. 
Boston 



E. H. S. BAILEY, Ph.B., Ph.D. 
U. S. Dept. Agriculture 



ELIAS H. BARTLEY, B.S., M.D., A.M., F.A.C.P. 

Brooklyn, N. Y. 



A. L. BENEDICT, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P. 

Buffalo, N. Y. 



GEORGE FRANK BUTLER, Ph.G., A.M., M.D. 
Mudlavia, Ind. 



JOHN H. CARROLL, M.D. 
New York City 



GEORGE W. CRILE, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.S. 
Cleveland, Ohio 



ALFRED C. CROFTAN, Ph.G., M.D. 
Chicago 



WILLIAM P. CUNNINGHAM, A.M., M.D. 
New York City 



W. A. NEWMAN DORLAND, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.S. 

Chicago 



WILLIAM EDWARD FITCH, M.D. 
New York City 



CASIMIR FUNK, D.Sc, Ph.D. 
New York City 



DAVID GEIRINGER, M.D. 
New York City 



H. S. GRINDLEY, B.S., Sc.D. 

Urbana, 111. 

xi 



xii LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS 

WINFIELD S. HALL, B.S., M.S., M.D., Ph.D. 
Chicago 



GRAEME M. HAMMOND, A.M., M.D. 

New York City 



HENRY R. HARROWER, M.D., F.R.S.M. (Lond.) 
California 



JOHN C. HEMMETER, M.D., Ph.D., Sc.D., LL.D. 

Baltimore 



J. ALLISON HODGES, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P. 
Richmond, Va. 



WILLIAM C. HOLLOPETER, A.M., M.D., LL.D. 

Philadelphia 



H. LYONS HUNT, M.D., L.R.C.P. (Edin.) 
New York City 



M. E. JAFFA, M.D. 
Agri. Exp. Station, Berkeley, Cal. 



RICHARD A. KEARNY, M.Ph., M.D. 
Surg. U.S.P.H. Service 



ROBERT COLEMAN KEMP, A.B., M.D. 
New York City 



ARTHUR I. KENDALL, B.Sc, Ph.D., Dr.P.H. 

Chicago 



LE GRAND KERR, M.D., F.A.C.P. 

Brooklyn, N. Y. 



GEORGE N. KREIDER, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.S. 

Springfield, 111. 



CLAUDE H. LAVINDER, M.D. 
Surg. U.S.P.H. Service 



H. EDWIN LEWIS, M.D. 

New York City 



A. BRUCE MACALLUM, A.B., M.D. 
Toronto, Ont., Can. 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS xiii 

GEORGE M. NILES, M.D. 
Atlanta, Ga. 



S. J. NILSON, M.D. 
New York City 



EDWARD C. REGISTER, M.D. 

Charlotte, N. C. 



E. E. SMITH, Ph.D., M.D. 
New York City 



FREDERICK J. SMITH, A.M., M.D. (Oxon.) 

F.R.C.P. (Lond.), F.R.C.S. (Eng.) 

London 



FRANK SMITHIES, M.D. 
Chicago 



THOMAS P. SHUPE, M.D. 
Cleveland, Ohio 



SAMUEL W. S. TOMS, Ph.G., M.D. 
New York 



JOHN W. TORBETT, B.S., M.D. 
Texas 



EDWARD B. VEDDER, A.M., M.D. 
Lt. Col. M.C., U. S. A. 

KARL VON RUCK, B.S., M.D. 

Asheville, N. C. 



ARTHUR W. WEYSSE, A.M., M.D., Ph.D. 
Boston 



TOM A. WILLIAMS, M.B.C.M. (Edin.) 
Washington, D. C. 



CONTRIBUTORS TO VOLUME I 

E. H. S. BAILEY, Ph.B., Ph.D. 

Professor of Food Chemistry, and Director of Chemical Laboratories, 

Univ. of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas; Collaborating Chemist 

U. S. Department of Agriculture 

A. L. BENEDICT, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P. 

Capt. Med. Res. Corps, U. S. A.; Consulting Gastro-Enterologist Buffalo 

Hospital, Buffalo, New York 



WILLIAM E. FITCH, M.D. 
Major Med. Res. Corps, U. S. A., New York City 

JOHN C. HEMMETER, M.D., Ph.D., ScD., LL.D. 
Professor of Physiology, Maryland University and College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, Baltimore, Md. 



M. E. JAFFA, M.D. 

Professor of Nutrition, University of Cahfornia, College of Agriculture, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Berkeley, Cal. 



ARTHUR I. KENDALL, B.Sc, Ph.D., Dr.P.H. 
Professor of Bacteriology, Northwestern University Medical School, 

Chicago, 111. 



E. E. SMITH, Ph.D., M.D. 

President Academy of Sciences, New York City 

Formerly Professor of Physiology and Biological Chemistry, Fordham 

University Medical School, New York City 



S. W. S. TOMS, Ph.G., M.D. 

Capt. Med. Res. Corps, U. S. A.; Member Visiting Staff Nyack Hospital; 

Vice-President Medical Society of New York, Nyack, New York 



ARTHUR W. WEYSSE, A.M., Ph.D., M.D. 
Professor of Exper. Physiology, Boston University School of Medicine, 

Boston, Mass. 



X? 



I 



CONTENTS 



VOLUME I 

CHAPTER I 
THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

rAQM 

General Introduction 1 

Diet Epochs 8 

Precookery Period 10 

Simian Period 10 

Homosimian Period 10 

Precibicultural Cookery Period 13 

The Development of Cookery 14 

Systematic Use of Fire 14 

Discovery of Cooking 14 

Evolution of Cookery 14 

Fire Applied to Meat 15 

The Food of Precibiculturists 21 

Cibiculturist Period . 32 

Domestication of Animals 32 

Introduction of Agriculture • • . ; ; 33 

Changes in Bodily Structure and Function Due to Evolution 40 

Modification Due to Variation of Diet 40 

Modification Due to Evolution from an Arboreal Ancestor 42 

Changes in Digestive Organs 43 

Evolution of the Teeth 45 

Changes in the Mammary Function Due to the Artifieial Feeding of Children 48 

General Summary 49 

CHAPTER II 
CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 

Chemical Elements in the Human Body 53 

Organic Compounds 54 

Fats 55 

Carbohydrates 55 

Proteins 55 

Albumins 55 

Proximate Principles 55 

Inorganic Compounds 55 

Water 55 

Acids 55 

Salts 55 

Scientific Classification of Foods 56 

Nitrogenous 56 

Non-nitrogenous. . 56 

Test to Determine Food Value 58 

Chemical 58 

Physical 58 

Physiological w 60 

Economic - • 61 

xvii 



xviii CONTENTS 

CHAPTER III 

CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROXIMATE PRINCIPLES OF 

FOODSTUFFS' 
E. E. Smith, Ph.D., M.D. 

PAGE 

Vitamines 64 

Hormones 65 

Enzymes 65 

Proteins 65 

Protein Amino- Acids 67 

Chemical Classification of Proteins 73 

Simple Proteins 75 

Conjugated Proteins 80 

Derived Proteins 82 

Carbohydrates 84 

Classification of Carbohydrates 84 

Monosaccharids 84 

Disaccharids 87 

Trisaccharids 89 

Polysaccharids . 89 

Hydrocarbons 92 

Terpenes 93 

Aldehyds 94 

Acids 94 

Esters 97 

Pigments 101 

Inorganic Salts 102 

Water 103 



CHAPTER IV 

DESCRIPTION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS 

- S. W. S. Toms, Ph.G., M.D. 

Alimentary Tract 108 

Mouth 108 

Pharynx 110 

Esophagus 110 

Stomach Ill 

Small Intestine Ill 

Large Intestine 113 

Sigmoid Rectum 115 

Digestive Glands 115 

Duodenal Glands 115 

Salivary Glands 116 

Parotid Glands 116 

Pancreatic Gland 117 

Spleen 118 

Liver 118 

CHAPTER V 

MECHANICAL AND CHEMICAL PROCESSES OF DIGESTION IN THE 
ALIMENTARY TRACT 

Mastication of Food 121 

Insalivation 123 

Deglutition 126 

Nerve Action in Digestive Processes 127 

Secretion and Action of Digestive Juices 130 



CONTENTS xix 

PAGB 

Functions of the Stomach 133 

Stomach as Reservoir 133 

Maceration of Food in the Stomach 134 

Sterilization of Food 140 

Regulation of Temperature 140 

Absorption of Food 141 

CHAPTER VI 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HORMONES AS APPLIED IN 
THE PROCESS OF DIGESTION 

Arthur W. Weysse, Ph.D., M.D. 

Ferments 145 

Nature of Enzymatic Processes 146 

Classification of Enzymes 148 

Proteolytic Enzymes 148 

Amylolytic Enzymes 148 

Fat-splitting Enzymes 148 

Sugar-splitting Enzymes . 148 

Peptolytic Enzymes 148 

Coagulating Enzymes 148 

Oxidizing Enzymes 148 

Specific Action 150 

Temperature Control 150 

Reversibility 150 

Gastric Digestion 159 



CHAPTER VII 

PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

John C. Hemmeter, M.D., Ph.D., Sc.D., LL.D. 

Absorptive Powers of the Digestive Organs 163 

Absorption in the Stomach 163 

Absorption in the Small Intestine 169 

Absorption in the Large Intestine 174 

Absorption of Foods 177 

Fats 178 

Carbohydrates 184 

Protein Absorption 188 

The Role of the White Blood Corpuscles in the Absorption of Food 203 

Dialysis and Diffusion 204 

Filtration 207 



CHAPTER VIII 

BACTERIAL DECOMPOSITION OF FOOD IN THE GASTRO-INTESTINAL 
TRACT DURING THE PROCESS OF DIGESTION 

Arthur I. Kendall, B.S., Ph.D., Dr.P.H. 

Experimental Observations of Bacterial Metabolism 211 

Nature of Bacterial Metabolism 214 

Gastro-Intestinal Bacteriology 223 

Normal Infants 224 

Adolescents 225 

Adults 225 

Regional Bacteriology 226 



XX CONTENTS 

CHAPTER IX 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 

PAOB 

Nitrogenous and Non-Nitrogenous Foods 231 

Definition of Food 232 

Classification of Foods 232 

Foodstuffs 233 

Combinations 233 

Chief Elements 234 

Accessory Substances 234 

CHAPTER X 
WATER IN THE BODY AND IN FOODS 

Composition of Water ' 238 

Physical and Chemical Properties 238 

Substances in Suspension and Solution 239 

Sources of Water 244 

Uses of Water in the Human System 248 

Elirainative Function 248 

Function as Food 248 

Aid in Digestion 249 

Diuretic and Diaphoretic Function 250 

CHAPTER XI 
THE MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND OF FOODS 

General Considerations 255 

Utilization of Mineral Substances 259 

Form of Mineral Salts in the Body 259 

Function of Salts in the Body 262 

Mineral Content in Foods 265 

Calcium 265 

Magnesium 265 

Iron 266 

Sodium and Potassium 269 

Sulphur 272 

lodin 273 

Fluorin and SiUca 274 

Bromin 274 

OxaUc Acid . 274 

Manganese 275 

I 

CHAPTER XII 

ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 
E. H. S. Bailey, Ph.B., Ph.D. 

Meats 277 

Meat Extracts 287 

Gelatin and Gelatin Foods 293 

Animal Viscera as Food 294 

Domestic and Wild Fowl 296 

Fish and Shell Fish 300 

Milk and Milk Products 307 

Eggs and Egg Products 349 



CONTENTS xxi 

CHAPTER XIII 

VEGETABLE FOODS 

vxau 

General Considerations. 365 

C^heniical (Characteristics , 365 

Food Value 367 

Nutritive Substances 367 

Digestion and Absorption 371 

Varieties of Vegetable Foods 375 

Cereals 375 

Breakfast Foods 404 

Roots and Tubers 409 

Green Vegetables 430 

Dried Legumes or Pulses 441 

Fungi, Lichens, Algae 447 

CHAPTER XIV 
FATS AND OILS 

General Considerations 457 

Importance of Fats 459 

Animal Fats 461 

Butter 461 

Lard 465 

Suet 466 

Tallow . 466 

Oleomargarin 466 

Vegetable Fats 467 

Value of Vegetable Fats 467 

Absorption of Vegetable Oils 467 

Almond Oil 469 

Olive Oil 469 

Peanut Oil 469 

Cottonseed Oil 470 

CHAPTER XV 

FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 
M. E. Jaffa, M.D. 

General Considerations 475 

Classification of Fruits 476 

Composition of Fruits 477 

Importance of Fruits 479 

Digestion and Absorption of Fruits 479 

Tree Fruits 480 

Ampelidaceous or Vine Fruits 496 

Small Bush Berries 498 

Herb-like Fruits 502 

Nuts 504 

Garden Fruits 512 

Preservation of Fruits by Cold Storage 515 

CHAPTER XVI 

WATER, BEVERAGES, MALT LIQUORS, STIMULANTS, WINES, CIDERS 

AND VINEGARS 

Waters 519 

Classification of Waters 521 

Drinking of Water at Meals 538 



xxii CONTENTS 

PAOB 

Beverages 539 

Tea 540 

Cofifee 545 

Cocoa 551 

Chf)Colate 555 

Nutritive Value of Beverages 558 

Deleterious Effects ol Their Use 559 

Malt Liquors 559 

Preparation of Malt Liquors 560 

Composition of Malt Liquors 561 

Action of Malt Liquors on Digestion 566 

Stimulants 568 

Effects of Alcohol on the Body 570 

Whiskey 582 

Brandy. 585 

Gin 587 

Liqueurs 587 

Use of Al(!ohol 592 

Wine. 594 

Preparation of Wine 595 

Varieties of Wines 596 

Effects of Wine on Digestion 600 

Wine as Source of Nutriment 601 

Use of Wines 601 

Cider, Perry 602 



CHAPTER XVII 
SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

Sugar 609 

Sugar Cane 609 

Beet Root Sugar 614 

Sorghum Sugar 616 

Palm Sugar 618 

Principles of Sugar Refining 620 

Molasses 622 

Sirup 622 

Confectionery 627 

Honey 628 

Digestibility of Sugar 631 

Value of Sugar as Food 635 

Spices and Condiments 638 

Value of Spices and Condiments 639 

Sources of Condiments and Spices 640 

Stems and Leaves 640 

Buds and Flowers 642 

Barks 643 

Roots or Rootstalks 644 

Immature, and Ripe Fruits 645 

Seeds 647 

Pickles and Salads 651 



CHAPTER XVITI 

TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS— SOME CONSEQUENT DISEASES 
A. L. Benedict, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P 

Source in Vegetable Foods of Toxic and Medicinal Substances 657 

Caused by Various Food Poisons 662 



CONTENTS xxiii 

CHAPTER XIX 

ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS— FUEL VALUE PER POUND AND PER 

PORTION 

PAOB 

Meaning of Protein 693 

Sources and Methods of Computing Food Analysis Tables 694 

Composition of Food Materials 695 

Atwater and Bryant's Average Chemical Composition of American Food Mar 
terials 702 



CHAPTER XX 

UNUSUAL ANIMALS, BIRDS, REPTILES, ETC., SOMETIMES USED FOR 

FOOD 

Alphabetical List of Unusual Animals 763-775 

Index 781 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 
VOLUME I 

FIGURE PAGE 

1.— Stone-Boiling. Lifting the Hot Stones into the Food Basket 18 

2. — Stone-BoiHng. Removing the Stones from the Boiling Basket 18 

3. — Pueblo Indians Planting Corn 23 

4. — Chart illustrating the Pecuniary Economy of Various Meats, Milk and 

Other Foods 59 

5. — Eso})hagus, Curvatures of the Stomach and the Situation of the Pars 

Pylorica, the Descending and Inferior Duodenum 109 

6.— The Normal Stomach 110 

7. — The Longitudinal Fibers of the Musculature of the Stomach Ill 

8. — Orifices of the Peptic Glands of the Stomach 112 

9. — The Greater and Lesser Curv^atures of the Stomach 112 

10. — The Duodenum in its Anatomical Relations 133 

11. — Diagram of the Alimentary Canal, Stomach, Liver, Pancreas and the 

Large Intestine 114 

12. — The Duodenum Opened, Showing the Valvulae Conniventes, and the Open- 
ing of the Common Bile-Duct 117 

13. — Circular Fibers of the Musculature of the Stomach 123 

14. — Series of Radiographs Showing the Diastole and the Systole in the Me- 
chanical Movements of the Stomach 135 

15. — View of the Interior of the Stomach 105 

16. — Stomach, Intestines and Mesentery; Vessels and Lacteals 170 

17. — Lymphatics of the Trunk, Including the Thoracic Duct 173 

18. — Chemical Composition of Poultry in Comparison with Steak or Chop 298 

19. — Correct Anatomy of the Oyster 306 

20.— Interior of a Complete Milk Plant 320 

21. — Straus Home Pasteurizer 321 

22. — Percentage Composition of Foods 329 

23. — Percentage Composition and Fuel Value per Pound of Whole Milk and 

Some Milk Products 335 

24. — Percentage Composition and Fuel Value per Pound of Butter, Cheese and 

Other Milk Products 342 

25.— Appearance of Different Grades of Eggs before the Candle 350 

26.— Egg Candling Chart 352 

27. — Chemical Composition of Eggs as Compared with Milk, Beefsteak, Cream 

Cheese and White Bread 354 

28.— Chemical Composition of Whole Egg, Egg White, Egg Yolk, Desiccated 

Egg and Egg Substitute .> 357 

29.— Cereal Starch Granules • 368 

XXV 



xxvi LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

FIGURE PAGE 

30. — Diagrammatic Section of a Grain of Wheat 377 

31. — Diagrammatic Section of a Grain of Corn 393 

32. — Transverse and Longitudinal Sections of the Potato 411 

33. — Composition of the Potato 412 

34. — Composition of Common Starchy Root Vegetables 415 

35. — Composition of Some Succulent Vegetables as Compared with Milk 419 

36. — Composition of the Carrot and the Loss of Nutrients when Boiled 421 

37. — Percentage Composition of Carrot, Onion, Beet and Other Root Vegetables 

Compared with Each Other and with Bread 424 

38.— Dasheen Plant at Brookville, Florida 426 

39. — An Eleven-Pound Hill of Dasheen Corms and Tubers, with Soil and Roots - 

Removed, in Actual Position of Growth ! 427 

40. — Dasheen Cormels, or "Tubers" 427 

41. — Composition and Fuel Value of the Tomato 437 

42. — Composition of the Apple 480 

43.— Composition of the Fig 488 

44. — Composition of the Banana 502 

45. — Composition of the AA^alnut 511 

46.— Diagrams of Cuts of Beef 698 

47.— Diagrams of Cuts of Veal 699 

48. — Diagrams of Cuts of Lamb and Mutton 700 

49.— Diagrams of Cuts of Pork 701 



DIETOTHERAPY 

VOLUME I 



CHEMISTEY AISTD PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 
CLASSIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF FOODS 

CHAPTER I 
THE EVOLUTION OF MAN^S DIET 

Adam — the father of mankind — came into life fasting, and the newborn babe 
comes into the world crying and is calmed only at its mother's breast. Eating is 
a necessity which has led to cookery — an art that has rendered the most important 
service to society, for it has brought into play the application of fire by which man 
has subjugated Nature. 

Diet Epochs: Precookery Period; Precibieultural Cookery Period; Cibi- 

cultural Period. 
Changes in Bodily Structure and Function due to Evolution: Modifications 

due to Diet; Modifications due to Evolution from an Arboreal 

Ancestor j Teeth, Digestive Organs, Mammary Glands. 
Summary of Dietary Influence upon Man's Evolution. 

GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

The evolution of man's diet is part of his general evolution, and diet 
has had considerable influence on this evolution. A work on nutrition 
and dietetics, therefore, should deal with the changes of man's diet from 
early times, in so far as this knowledge may be of value for the prevention 
of disease, and may afford the physician an intelligent insight into the 
many and diverse disorders which proceed from the consumption of un- 
suitable food. This will be the object of the following resume of the chief 
facts known concerning the evolution of man's diet. 

In so far as diet is concerned, the mammalia may be divided into 
three classes : the carnivora, the herbivora, and the f rugivora. 

1 



2 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

As the name implies, the carnivora are flesh eaters solely. Since a 
meat diet is concentrated to a high degree, the capacity of the digestive 
system of the carnivora is, accordingly, small in proportion to the body 
weight. 

On the other hand the herhivora, which maintain life by eating 
grasses, leaves, and the like, must eat large quantities in order to obtain 
sufficient nutriment. Their food is bulky, the reverse of concentrated, 
and their digestive system is of capacious character. They eat no animal 
food. The horse, ox and rabbit are examples of the herbivora. 

The frugivora, to which group man belongs, also include the more 
intelligent of the animals, for example, the squirrel, rat, monkey, lemur 
and ape. Not only have these animals more acute and superior reasoning 
faculties than herbivora, but owing to their prehensile powers, they are 
better adapted bodily to select their food. They exhibit their superiority 
by their cleverness in obtaining food in more concentrated forms; conse- 
quently their digestive apparatus is much less bulky. Agile in brain and 
limb, they are able to procure animal food which, according to Dr. Harry 
Campbell (1), is "of air foods the most nutritious.'' Squirrels eat eggs 
in addition to nuts, and several members of the monkey tribe, as well as 
the great apes, not only consume fruits, but also small birds, eggs, lizards, 
grubs, insects and honey. West African monkeys are fond of shellfish 
and oysters. Probably our Pliocene ancestors lived upon the same sort 
of food. 

One condition may be deduced from a study of the evolution of man 
and of his diet : namely, that in the early stages of alteration of food and 
habits he must have been accustomed to a congenial climate and an abun- 
dance of the food. The climate suited to the race in its infancy was 
tropical or semi tropical and the food of primeval man was easy to obtain. 
Man was then an arboreal creature. 

DIET OF PRIMATES BELOW MAN.— In considering the evolution of 
man's diet as a phase of the evolution of man, it will be apposite to dis- 
cuss the diet of those animals nearest to man, from anatomical and physi- 
ological points of view as well as habits. Such animak and man are 
known to zoologists as coming under the order Primates, and include the 
lemur-like animals and the Anthropoidea or manlike apes. 

It appears likely that the first Primate originated in North America. 
The great group of monkeys also appeared in the Eocene era of North 
America, and later, in South America. Scott Elliott (2) has pointed 
out that one of the South American apes enjoys the name of Homunculus 
patagonicus. According to Macnamara, even at and before the beginning 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 3 

of the Miocene period certain apes had no less than 170 structural char- 
iictcrs in common with man; the giant apes of the early Miocene j)ori«Ml 
had 150 of these common characters, amounting to over 300 in the mid- 
pliocene chimpanzee-like form. Anion*;" the s])ecics of anthropoid apes 
now extant, the great tailless apes, including the gorilla, the chimpanzee 
and the gihbon, are the most similar to the human species. The monkeys 
are likewise members of this family. The baboons are the highest repre- 
sentatives of these and the marmosets the lowest. Nuttall has shown that, 
tested by the blood precipitin test, tlie i^reat apes are the most closely allied 
to man, the baboons standing next, while the lemuroids give no indication 
of blood relationship. 

It is more than likely that our Pliocene ancestors ate very much the 
same kind of food as the lemurs, the anthropoid apes and the forest pyg- 
mies of the present day. With respect to the diet of monkeys, in the 
main it is frugivorous, but partly animal, as was the diet of prehistoric 
man in his early stages. ^^Their animal food comprises birds, birds' eggs, 
mice, lizards, frogs, shellfish, grubs, scorpions, centipedes and insects"(l). 
Honey is eaten by some of the baboons, and indeed honey appears to 
have been essentially a simian food and was a valuable source of nutri- 
ment to our early forebears. Gum constitutes an article of diet of the 
baboons and of other monkeys. The vegetable foods of the monkeys in- 
clude fruit, seeds, roots, tender shoots and leaves. 

There is a certain general similarity between men and monkeys, both 
anatomically and in dietetic inclinations. 

Ordinarily in his quest for food the monkey exhibits a certain 
degree of intelligence, a high degree, judged from the standard of the 
lower animals. Baboons will dig up roots and lift up stones in the 
search for insects, which seems to indicate that the early use of their 
hands is an hereditary trait which they have handed down to man. More- 
over, some monkeys fight in the same way as primitive man by hurling 
stones and other missiles at their enemies; baboons throw stones for the 
same purpose; while evidence goes to show that pitched battles occur 
among certain species of langurs for the possession of feeding grounds, — 
a fruitful and, perhaps, the most common cause of war among men 
through all the ages(3). A great number of observers have reported that 
in the early Spanish days in South America the Mycetes monkey used 
to defend itself by throwing stones. Wafer and Yves d'Evreux have 
reported that they saw monkeys break oyster shells and crack fruit with 
stones. 



4 THE EVOLUTION OF MA:N''S DIET 

The great apes feed, on the whole, in the same way as the monkeys. 
They are chiefly frugivorous, subsisting also on a vegetable diet in con- 
centrated forms, and are animal feeders to a small extent, when vegetable 
food is difScult to procure. In addition to the forms of vegetable food 
eaten by monkeys, the great apes will, in stress of circumstances, devour 
rats, mice and other small animals and even birds. There appears to be 
no record of their consuming shellfish, nor is there evidence that they eat 
honey, but in view of the fact that monkeys appreciate both shellfish and 
honey, it would seem quite within the nature of things that the great apes 
should also do so on occasion. 

To sum up the diet of the animals most closely allied to man as rep- 
resented by that of the monkey and great apes, we find that it consists 
mainly of concentrated vegetable foods and of highly concentrated anjmal 
foods taken in much smaller quantities. Much of the food of the primates 
below man is, from its character, unsuitable for human consumption, show- 
ing that the evolution of man progressed pari passu with his diet. 

The Food of Evolving Man. — The food of the evolving man was mainly 
of a vegetable nature. He could obtain but little animal food, chiefly in 
the form of fish, birds and birds' eggs, shellfish, lizards, snakes, frogs, 
grubs, worms, snails, insects and caterpillars. But, notwithstanding the 
fact that it was extremely difficult for our prehistoric ancestor to procure 
animal food, it must yet be borne in mind that the food supplied by the 
vegetable kingdom was inadequate for his subsistence. He had a very 
limited choice; the vegetables from which he could choose were woefully 
lacking in nutritive properties. Seeds supplied the most important con- 
stituent of his diet, because they contained the largest amount of protein. 
Under this heading are included fruits, seeds contained in a brightly 
colored, fleshy envelope. When the fruit is ripe the majority of these 
envelopes consist for the most part of dilute solutions of sugar and salts, 
which furnish little energy. The inner portion, the seeds, unless thor- 
oughly masticated, are indigestible to the mammalia. 

Roots formed a staple of the diet of primitive man, owing to the com- 
parative ease with which they could be secured. Many of these roots 
afforded scant nourishment, their nutrient value depending chiefly upon 
the richness of their starch content. The fleshy roots were the only ones 
of value, and their value was in more or less exact relation to their rich- 
ness in starch. 

ROOT FOOD OF THE NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS.— In this connection 
it is both interesting and instructive to note that the North American 
Indians largely used roots as food. Plants of the lily family furnished 



GENERAL INTR0DUCTI0:N" 5 

the most abundant and useful root food of the Indians throughout the 
Western Hemisphere. The Eskimos of Kowakar ate roots of the wild 
parsnip, which they secured from the caches in the nests of field 
mice. The Indians of Cape Flattery ate camas bulbs, as well as 
equisetum roots, and roots of fern, grass, water plants, clover, cinquefoil 
and eelgrass. Equisetum tubers and eelgrass roots were eaten raw ; other 
roots were boiled by means of hot stones or baked in pit ovens. Camas 
was a staple root food from the Wasatch Mountains in Utah, northward 
and westward. It was an article of widespread commerce, influenced the 
migration of tribes, and might have become in time the basis of primitive 
agriculture, notably in the valley of Columbia River. Leiberg said, 
"Every meadow was a camas field." The plant was so plentiful in many 
places that it is no exaggeration to say that in the Upper St. Mary basin 
more than half of the total herbaceous vegetation in the lowlands was 
composed of this one species. The Skitswish people congregated here in 
the summer to dig camas and to hunt deer. The root was dug with a 
sharp pointed stick. In part of this area, the kouse root, second only in 
importance, was dug in April and May, before camas was in season. This 
root is the racine blanche of the Canadian voyageurs. It was pounded 
and made into thin cakes a foot wide and three feet long. 

The tubers of the arrowhead plant were widely used in the Northwest 
for food. The Chippewa and Atlantic Coast Indians also made use of 
them. The roots of the cat-tail and bur reed were eaten by the Klamath 
of Oregon, who used also the roots of carum, calochortus and valerian. 
The Nez Perces of Idaho also ate balsam root. 

The pomme blanche, Indian turnip, or prairie potato, was prized by 
tribes living on high plains from the Saskatchewan to Louisiana and 
Texas. The Sioux varied their diet with roots of the Indian turnip, two 
kinds of water lily, the water grass and the ground nut. To these may 
be added the tuber of milkweed and the root of the Jerusalem artichoke 
eaten by the Dakotas of St. Croix River. Other tribes of the plain gath- 
ered esculent roots to eke out their food supply, among them the immense 
roots of the wild potato. The Miami, Shawnee and other tribes of the 
Middle West ate the "man of the earth" and the Jerusalem artichoke. 
As a result of the universal habit among Californian tribes, especially the 
Paiute, of gathering food roots, the name "Diggers" was applied to them 
by the early settlers. 

The esculent roots growing in great variety in California were a con- 
siderable addition to the Indian larder. Among the plants thus utilized 
were the brake, tule, calochortus, camas and various lilies. Calochortus 



6 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

bulbs, called wild sago, were eaten also by the tribes of Utah and Ari- 
zona. The bulbs were starchy and palatable, and it is said that the Mor- 
mons during their first few years in Utah consumed this root extensively. 
In the Southwest few edible roots are found. The Hopi, Zuni, and other 
tribes eat the tubers of the wild potato. The Pinia, Hopi, and other 
Arizona tribes habitually chewed the roots of certain plants having sweet 
or mucilaginous properties. The Seminole of Florida possessed a valu- 
able plant called coontie, the bulbous starchy root of which was converted 
into flour. Although the use of edible roots by the Indians was general, 
they nowhere practiced root cultivation, even in its incipient stages. 

SUPPOSED DIET OF PEIMITIVE MAN.— Some writers and most poets 
have depicted in glowing words the happy lot of early man. This 
Utopian view pictures him as having lived in a lovely warm climate, 
in which nature exhibited herself in the utmost luxuriance. He 
dwelt in a land "flowing with milk and honey," metaphorically speak- 
ing, with no need to exert himself to obtain his daily bread. A pro- 
fusion of products of the vegetable world surrounded him on all 
sides and he merely had to lift up his hand to gather the most deli- 
cious food imaginable. The reality was far from this Utopian concep- 
tion, which was a product of a vivid or fevered imagination. The food 
which he was able to obtain easily was scarcely worth the gathering, and 
in order to satisfy the pangs of hunger and to sustain existence, he was 
compelled to put himself to much trouble and to undergo many dangers. 
This is known from the fact that certain races, whose mode of life approxi- 
mates most closely that of the primitive dwellers on earth, have the greatest 
difiiculty in eking out a miserable existence. The impossibility of modern 
civilized man leading a vigorous life on vegetable food alone is also shown 
by the experiences of those who, despite the vastly improved methods of 
preparing and enhancing the nutritive value of such food, are unable even 
to subsist on a vegetable diet solely. 

THE INFLUENCE OF CULTIVATION ON NUTRITIVE PROPERTIES OF 
VEGETABLES.— One can hardly conceive to how great an extent cultiva- 
tion has increased the nutritive value of the products of the vegetable 
kingdom. Fruits which grow wild are seldom highly nutritious. In their 
natural state, as a rule, they are small, shriveled and acrid, and, as a 
source of energy and nutriment, almost a negligible quantity. A striking 
evidence of this deterioration is afforded when a cultivated fruit, as the 
apple, is allowed to revert to a wild state. It will not be long before the 
formerly luscious, sweet tasting fruit becomes a meager, hard, sour and 
disagreeable article of diet. The truth is that fruits and vegetables, as sup- 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION' 7 

plied to the modern markets, are highly finished products- of civilization, 
as Ciunpbell puts it, ^^Dating back into an impenetrable past and scarcely 
to be identified with their wild and barely edible congeners." Wihl fruits 
afford but a scant and inadequate supply of nourishment to man, and it 
may be accepted as an axiom that fruits of every description owe their 
present state of perfection to centuries of the most careful cultivation. 

FACTORS WHICH HAVE DETERMTNED THE CHOICE OF FOOD.— 
The food of an evolving species is necessarily determined and regu- 
lated by environment, that is by the llora and fauna of the locality in 
which it lives, by the attractiveness of certain kinds of food and by the 
ability to procure such food. The kind of food available is almost wholly 
a question of climate and need not be discussed here. With regard to a 
man's predilection for certain kinds of food, it is a fact, as Campbell has 
pointed out, that the tendency of every animal is to seek food of the most 
concentrated and of the most digestible and palatable kind. Of vegetable 
foods, seeds and roots best fulfill these requirements. The ideal vegetable 
food is that which contains the most starch, sugar, proteins and fats and 
the least indigestible cellulose and other unpalatable ingredients. Such 
vegetable foods are most nutritive and agreeable, and consequently the 
most popular, and offer a sufficient explanation why, in the course of his 
evolution, man has discarded certain products of the vegetable world from 
his dietary. However, according to Campbell, of all natural food, animal 
tissue is at once the most concentrated and, by those possessed of the 
proper digestive organs, the most easily digested. Given favoring circum- 
stances, all animals tend to become carnivorous. The reverse is scarcely 
ever the case. 

Palatability of food varies with the species. Force of habit neces- 
sarily wields a certain amount of influence. A food to which an animal 
has become accustomed by generations of use becomes the natural diet, 
and even highly cultivated man is influenced in the same direction. A 
Scotchman "swears by'' oatmeal, a Japanese by rice, an Italian by spa- 
ghetti, and an Englishman or an Australian by beef or mutton. Man's 
tendency to favor concentrated, digestible and nicely flavored food in pref- 
erence to the coarse, bulky, sour and indigestible food that is consumed 
by the primates below him is strikingly shown by the manner in which he 
has cultivated his foodstuffs. Among highly cultivated races with whom 
cooking has become a fine art, this tendency may have been carried to 
excess and the pendulum has swung too far in the opposite direction, so 
that too much delicately flavored and predigested food is eaten. This 
criticism api^lies more to the preparation of food, especially cereal foods, 



8 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

than to its cultivation. For many and obvious reasons, coarse cereals — 
those which are not highly milled — are better on the whole than the 
smooth decorticated preparations. 

The ability to secure the wished for food is one of the most important 
factors in the evolution of man's diet. Intelligence and bodily equipment 
count for much in the successful quest. A stupid animal with weak 
physical powers must be content with a bulky, unpalatable, monotonous 
food supply; whereas, to a large extent, an agile, acute animal, like the 
fox, is able to procure a diet to its taste. 

SUMMARY.— The evolution of man's diet has been influenced chiefly 
by the above considerations. We have seen that the diet of the great apes 
and monkeys is mainly a coarse food, mostly vegetable but also partly 
animal. The configuration of the digestive organs of many of these ani- 
mals is an evidence that they are descended from animals with large ceca 
and shows that these ancestors consumed a much more bulky diet. The 
tendency of the evolving primate then is to abandon the herbivorous for 
a frugivorous diet and to eat some flesh. 



DIET EPOCHS 

The plan of this chapter dealing with the evolution of man's diet is 
arranged in a similar manner to the chapter on the same subject con- 
tributed by that very able medical writer, Dr. Harry Campbell(l), but 
before discussing the diet epochs, it may not be out of place to make some 
remarks on the evolution of man. 

Evolution of Man — It has been suggested by Scott Elliott that the 
primates had a common Eocene ancestor whose descendents had adopted 
four distinct and different modes of life. ^'One group remained noc- 
turnal, fruit and insect eaters who lived in trees ; these are now rep- 
resented by the lemurs. Others, now monkeys, went about in troops, feed- 
ing by day upon nuts, fruits and birds' eggs. A third group had special- 
ized on the lines which led to the modern gibbon, orang, gorilla and chim- 
panzee ; they were animals of the tropical jungle with powerful jaws and 
muscles, as well as with sufficient strength and ferocity to keep at bay any 
ordinary enemy. These also lived in trees." 

"The question is, was there a fourth group which contained our special 
ancestor. If so, it seems likely that he lived also more or less in tho 
branches, and there is some anatomical evidence which points to this con- 
clusion. If he used eoliths, he must have hunted in the daytime ; he may 



DIET EPOCHS 9 

have frequented those woods which were near the seashore or on the mar- 
gin of great lakes, since suitable stones for eoliths are more numerous by 
far on the shores of seas or lakes than in dense forests." Moreover, if ho 
lived on oysters and shellfish, eoliths would be invaluable. It is held by 
some that these eoliths or flints of various ages which have been struck 
or chipped in an unusual way were the handiwork of Ilomosimius pre- 
cursor, the scientific name for Oligocene man. This hypothetical man as 
well as the flints he is supposed to have shaped are but interesting specu- 
lations. The more common belief which rests on the most secure founda- 
tion is that which traces the ascent of man by a series of evolutionary 
processes from a primate. 

SHAPE AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL.— "The mOst remarkable 
of all the differences between man and his presumably nearest of 
kin in the animal world lies in the shape and extraordinary develop- 
ment of the s]culV\l). Although this matter has no direct bearing on 
the evolution of man's diet, it has a certain indirect interest. As 
Campbell has shown in discussing the diet epochs of man, it should be 
borne in mind that his dietetic career has been signalized by three great 
advances, each of wbich has markedly augmented his supply of food. 
These advances have been made possible by his increase in brain power, 
and a convenient mode of denoting these successive grades in man's evo- 
lution from his simian ancestors is by reference to his cranial capacity. 
Proceeding then on the assumption that the great apes are man's common 
ancestors, and the cranial capacity of the great apes 300 c.c, and assum- 
ing that the capacity of the average European of today is 1,500 c.c, or 
striking out noughts, from 3 to 15. By this method of computation Camp- 
bell traces the ascent of man from the great ape thus : a third, fourth and 
fifth grade in the simian period ; a sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth grade 
in the homosimian period ; and a tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, four- 
teenth and fifteenth grade in the period where we designate the animal as 
''man." This method of classification is simple and provides an easy 
means of following the dietetic progress of evolving man. According to 
this grading, the first important dietetic advance occurred, say at the 
tenth grade, when the hunting and fishing stage was entered upon. The 
second advance took place soon after the eleventh stage, when he began to 
prepare his vegetable food in various ways, the grand climax being 
reached when by the employment of cookery he was able to convert in- 
nutritious into nutritious food, thereby adding to his supply of vegetable 
food and opening the way to the cultivation of grain and roots, which 
would be of little use without the aid of cooking. 



10 THE EVOLlTTIOlSr OF MAN'S DIET 

The third and in many respects the greatest advance came when he 
commenced to cultivate plants and to breed animals. At this period he 
also learned to store food — a measure which in these days by the aid of 
refrigeration has been brought to perfection as well as to abuse. 



PRECOOKERY EPOCH 

The simian period, the homosimian period and the early hunting 
period may be termed the precookery epoch, or, the epoch from the ape 
stage to the invention of cookery. Then came the precibicultural cookery 
epoch, the epoch from the invention of cookery to the introduction of agri- 
culture and the breeding of animals for food, and lastly the cibicultural 
epoch, from the time man began to produce his food artificially to the 
present time. 

The Simian Period. — Descendants of animals of herbivorous habits, the 
primates, became frugivorous. Assuming that man Is of simian origin, 
and consequently that our simian precursors were akin to the great apes, 
deductions drawn from a study of the food of the primates are of value 
in discussing the evolution of man. Since authorities have shown that 
the diet of the great apes Is similar to that of the lowest order of men, 
forest pygmies, living under like conditions at the present time, the sup- 
position that man has a simian ancestry is largely borne out from the 
viewpoint of diet. 

The Homosimian Period. — The homosimian period witnessed the up- 
ward trend of the simian precursor of man. His Intelligence was devel- 
oping, quickened no doubt by stress of adverse circTimstances. Although 
his food still consisted to a great extent of raw vegetables, he gradually 
became more of a flesh eater. As yet, however, lacking the appliances of 
the chase except of a primitive nature, he had, as a rule, to be content 
with fish and the smaller animals. These he was able to secure by the 
exercise of a brain more agile than the other animals, and by the aid of 
his highly developed physical powers. The addition of even this small 
amount of animal food marked an Important phase of man's dietetic and 
general evolution, for he gradually came to discard the coarser and more 
indigestible kinds of vegetable foods. 

THE EARLY HUNTING PERIOD.— The early hunting period signified 
another definite step in advance, for, with the employment of weapons and 
means for hunting animals and catching fish, the quantity and choice of 
foods were greatly enlarged. Up to this time the larger animals were more 



DIET EPOCHS 11 

or less beyond his reach, although doubtless throughout mo&t of the homo- 
simian period he was a skillful hunter and had fashioned weapons and 
otlicr implements with which to supply himself with a certain amount of 
animal food. 

Earliest Weapons of Man. — Wliether the earliest weapons of man 
were of flint or other stone is a mooted question. It is certain that the flint 
weapons are the only ones that have been found, but this does not prove 
that these were the only weapons employed. Taking into account the 
fact that the homosimians were forest dwellers, it appears plausible that 
they used wood — bamboo in particular — for their weapons of the chase. 
Obviously these wooden weapons could not be handed down. 

By a stretch of imagination one might fancy that our Pliocene ances- 
tor, in that part of his evolution just before he became a man, could hurl 
stones with accuracy, could crack shellfish or hard fruits with a stone, and 
twine creepers or twigs together with which to make snares or other con- 
trivances for increasing his store of provisions. But this would, perhaps, 
be crediting him with too high a grade of intelligence. If we wished to 
carry this supposition further we might imagine that if his brain had 
been capable of conceiving the idea, he could have made a rude club, split 
off a bamboo splinter, shaped a stone, and so on. But, as he had not 
reached the level of intelligence of the most primitive "human," all these 
ideas were impossible both of conception and execution. 

So far, however, as the early homosimian is concerned, it is not be- 
yond the bounds of reason to imagine that he did make weapons of an 
extremely rude and primitive kind, scrapers and coups de poings and vari- 
ous implements of wood. Indeed, it may be taken for granted that the 
early homosimian possessed intelligence suflicient to conceive and the pa- 
tience to make weapons and implements by the aid of which he occasion- 
ally succeeded in killing or ensnaring large animals or catching fish, and 
that the true early hunting period commenced when, with the develop- 
ment of brain power, he was able to invent and devise special weapons and 
appliances for hunting and fishing, such as are employed by the most 
backward extant precibiculturists. These special weapons were probably 
made of wood. The Tasmanians had spears which they could throw sixty 
yards with surprising accuracy and force. They also possessed formi- 
dable clubs, wooden chisels and the like. Stone implements are by no 
means characteristic of most pygmy tribes, and are diflicult to obtain in 
forest countries where there is no flint. The most attractive supposition 
then is that the weapons used in the early hunting period were mainly of 
wood, stone and shell, and resembled in many respects the implements 



12 THE EV0LUTI0:N' OF MAWS DIET 

employed for the same purpose by certain primitive races of the present 
day. 

To a limited extent the life of the E^orth American Indian may be 
cited as an example of the manner in which our homosimian ancestors 
lived. When the homosimian became an expert hunter his diet became 
more animalized and, perhaps, he ate more flesh than vegetable food ; the 
^N'orth American Indian before the coming of the white man was a hunter 
and largely a meat eater. 

Although the dietetic and other customs of the Indian have been 
greatly changed by contact with the white man and his so-called civiliza- 
tion, yet he is by heredity a nomad and a hunter. The capture of animals 
devolved upon the man; the preparation of food upon the woman. She 
often added vegetables to the diet. When the precibicultural cookery 
period is discussed the diet of the Indians will be considered at length. 

DIET OF THE HOMOSIMIAN.— To proceed with the discussion of the 
diet of the homosimian in the early hunting period : it is assumed on suffi- 
ciently clear evidence that the homosimian was more carnivorous than 
vegetarian. His intelligence and the pressure of circumstances impelled 
him to invent appliances to procure animal food in large quantities. The 
present-day precibiculturist, as the North American Indian for example, 
eats about equal parts of animal and vegetable food. But if he did not 
know how to cook, and thus make the vegetable world contribute largely 
to his sustenance, he would perforce be more carnivorous. With this anal- 
ogy before us, it is fair to conclude that the homosimian of the early 
hunting period was more a flesh eater than a vegetarian. 

LATEK HUNTING PERIOD.— Many of our early ancestors were "mighty 
hunters before the Lord." They esteemed delicacies when they could 
obtain them, as has been proved by the fact that in the Grotto of the Ehi- 
noceros near Schwarzfeld, about 1,000 bones of the cave bear have been 
found. These were split to extract the marrow, and also showed the 
marks of fire. At San Giro near Palermo, there is evidence that they 
feasted habitually on hippopotami as is shown by the remains of some 
2,000 of these animals (Scott Elliott). 

The weapons of the homosimian continued to improve and his skill to 
increase, so that he was able to migrate to other lands — a necessity, in 
fact, as the supply of wild animals in the regions he had long occupied 
was insufficient to provide him with food. The hunting instincts together 
with the need for food gave the stimulus to our homosimian forefathers 
.to travel and were potent factors in the population of the earth. The 
question of the food supply rather than the climate was the cause of man's 



DIET EPOCHS 13 

spreading himself over the earth. But for many thousand years he could 
be no more than a lonely hunter as the Fuegan, the Tasmanian, the 
Bushman or the Veddah. Purely hunting savages can increase in num- 
bers to a very slight extent only. Lord Avebury, better known as Sir 
John Lubbock, gave 6,471 acres as the area required for a single red 
Indian living almost wholly on wild animals. 



PRECIBICULTURAL COOKERY PERIOD 

The discovery of cookery, by means of which the supply of vegetable 
food was immensely augmented and bettered, was a long step forward. 
The domestication of animals and the cultivation of plants were also very 
important advances. With these steps taken, man rapidly increased, mul- 
tiplied and inhabited the earth. Cooking preceded the cultivation of 
vegetable plants, and its effect was to increase and improve the supply of 
vegetable food. Before the invention of cookery man had to laboriously 
masticate his food to obtain all the nutriment contained therein. Con- 
sequently our ancestors in the precookery period were compelled to use 
their jaws and teeth in the most strenuous manner, with the result that 
the starch taken into the stomach was thoroughly masticated. Further, 
as the starch content of the coarse vegetables, eaten before cookery was 
invented or plants cultivated, was small most of it was digested in the 
form of dextrin and maltose in the mouth, and little passed into the stom- 
ach as crude dextrin. Campbell has drawn attention to this important 
point that, until the invention of cookery the stomach of evolving man had 
but little acquaintance with undigested starch. 

Early Preparation of Food. — Before the era of cookery, it appears prob- 
able that other means were used to prepare his vegetable food and render 
it more palatable and digestible — by sun drying, grinding, burying and 
maceration — all methods used by primitive races of the present time. 

PKESEEVATIVE METHODS.— Among the Iroquois and other eastern 
tribes vegetable foodstuffs were preserved by drying; among the less 
sedentary tribes, they were strung or tied in bundles for facility of trans- 
portation or storage. The preservation of maize, mesquite beans, acorns, 
etc., gave rise to granaries and other storage devices. In order to preserve 
animal food it was often dried or frozen. Dried meat was sometimes 
pulverized and mixed with berries. Fruits were pulped and dried for 
preservation. Tubers were frequently stored in the ground. The Vir- 
ginian tribes preserved tubers for winter use in this way. 



14 THE EVOLUTIOI^ OF MAN'S DIET 

The Development of Cookery 

The Systematic Use of Fire.— The aid of artificial heat opened up a 
new vista, so that many vegetables which in their raw state were unpal- 
atable and highly indigestible were, by the agency of fire, converted into 
nutritious articles of diet. How to make a fire was one of the greatest 
discoveries made by our simian ancestors. The various ways in which 
fire may be made have been described by other authors, perhaps most 
fully in Mason's ^'Origin of Invention." Wood friction was the most 
common mode. The use of fire in cooking food was indeed epoch-making, 
for, as the art of cookery improved, man was less dependent on hunting 
for his food. The supply of vegetables increased in proportion to the 
advances in the art of cookery, and the hunter was able to release him- 
self, to some extent, from the chase, and devote a considerable part of his 
time to other pursuits. In the course of time one-half or more of his 
dietary consisted of vegetable food. 

The Discovery of Cooking.— Cookery is the art which has rendered the 
most important service to humanity, for it has brought into play the ap- 
plication of fire, by the use of which man has subjugated nature. In all 
probability cookery is nearly as old as fire. It is almost certain that one 
of the earliest uses to which man put heat by fire was to cook his food. 
The antiquity of fire-making, of cookery, are matters of conjecture. At 
first, the cooking of food was done in a haphazard fashion. Cookery 
could not be termed an art nor could a period be referred to as the cookery 
period until it was applied systematically to both flesh and vegetables. 

Cooking rendered the indigestible cellulose content of raw vegetables 
more digestible, and improved the digestibility of the starch. At the same 
time, less mastication was required, and gradually the power of digesting 
the more indigestible and unpalatable raw vegetables was lost entirely. 
The most backward peoples now living cook their food, and that they have 
done so for ages, seems to be demonstrated by the fact that although 
widely separated by race and distance, the means they employ for this 
purpose are very similar. All evidence points to the fact that the methods 
of cooking now practiced by the most primitive races, as the nati^^e Aus- 
tralians, Californians, Pygmies and Andamanese, were handed down from 
the earliest times, probably from those times when cookery was first prac- 
ticed, and began to take its place as one of the arts. 

The Evolution of Cookery. — It may be assumed that as soon as man 
discovered how to make a fire, instinct impelled him to apply it to food, 
first to dry it, then to cook it by placing it on hot embers. 



DIET EPOC^nS 15 

Fire Applied to Meat. — Flesh thus prepared was found to taste better ; 
it was inoro wholesome, and was more easily masticated. The essence of 
the meat becoming fluid gave a savorv flavor which rendered it more 
gratifying to the palate. It was quickly discovered that this method pos- 
sessed some disagreeable drawbacks. Meat grilled on hot embers both 
burns and soils, while vegetable food will burn too readily. Meat was 
then in all likelihood stuck on skewers, which were placed on stones raised 
to a sufHcient height to prevent contact with the embers. Thus was the 
gridiron evolved. 

EVIDENCES OF COOKING OF MEAT AMONG PHTMITIVE MEN.— Refer- 
ence has been made to the discovery of the remains of hippopotami 
at San Giro near Palermo, which had been killed and eaten by 
the Neanderthal race — a race which probably included the later stages of 
the River Drift man and the early stages of the Cave Man of English an- 
thropologists. (1) Judging from the remains found at San Giro, *^it seems 
likely that they grilled their meat over a fire, and sometimes boiled it, for 
certain stones found in some caves seem to have been used as pot boilers. 
Perhaps a hollow w^as dug in the cave, or near it, and a skin, filled with 
the flesh and water, placed over the hollow. Then stones heated red-hot 
were dropped into the water to make it boil. This theory is uncertain, 
for it involves the assumption that they possessed a vessel in which water 
could be carried. It is true that water might have been carried in skins, 
but it would have been difficult ; therefore it is unlikely that they boiled 
their game. Moreover, it is not a usual form of cooking among races w^ho 
live in much the same manner at present." It appears certain that this 
Xeanderthal race used iron pyrites and flint to strike a light. It was no 
doubt the custom of' all primitive people, to whom it was a task of infinite 
patience and toil, and who were dependent upon the fire continually burn- 
ing in their caves for protection from wild beasts, for warmth and for 
cooking. The Neanderthal race were essentially meat eaters and big 
game eaters, for no small bones were in their caves, only those of the 
mammoth, rhinoceros, cave bear, the urus, deer and bison. 

It is important always to bear in mind that, although animal food 
is not so difl[icult to cook, raw meat was and is often used. In this form 
it is not unpalatable, and is more easily digested. While the connective 
tissue is softened by cooking and muscular fibers loosened, proteins 
are coagulated and, on the whole, most cooked meat tries the organs 
of digestion as much or more than meat in a raw state. Perhaps the 
warmth imparted to food by the process of cooking is a slight aid to 
digestion, and man at the present time has become accustomed by genera- 



16 THE EVOLUTIOlsr OF MAN'S DIET 

tions of use to cooked meat, which is a point in its favor. Early man was 
carnivorous by heredity and had not acquired the taste for cooked meat. 
Raw meat is assimilable and is eaten nowadays with gusto by some savage 
tribes. Some raw meats are even more palatable than cooked, and many 
highly civilized persons, notably the Germans and other European peo- 
ples, eat considerable quantities of raw meat, especially pork. 

Raw oysters and other shellfish are esteemed delicacies by the most 
civilized of people. Raw ham is largely consumed by Germans and other 
European peoples. Raw meat is given to consumptives as a part of treat- 
ment and is eaten by them with avidity. It is not the intention to argue 
that raw meat is better adapted, from the point of view of health, to 
civilized people than cooked meat, but rather to show that raw meat was 
in the precibicultural period the common diet of man, and that even after 
the discovery of cooking, meat was for a long time eaten raw. 

COOKING OF VEGETABLES.— The point on which it is intended to lay 
stress is that whereas animal food may be consumed in a raw state, vege- 
table food almost invariably requires the agency of fire to render it fit 
for human digestion. This is a truth of great significance in the evolu- 
tion of man and in the evolution of man's diet. By the aid of cooking, 
the stiff cellulose content of vegetables is rendered easily digestible, and 
the starch is more accessible to the salivary and other digestive fluids. 
Hence the use of cooked foods has altered man's organs of digestion and 
has played a part in his evolution. 

The Underground Oven. — ^While it was a comparatively simple 
matter to devise means to cook meat, it was altogether different when the 
cooking of vegetables was in question. This was solved by the invention 
of the underground oven. A hole was dug in the ground into which the 
food was placed and a fire was then made over or around it. The prin- 
ciple of this method is applied in various ways at the present time in out 
of the way parts of the world, and it can be asserted with emphasis that 
it is a most excellent way of preparing food for human consumption. 

The most advanced mode of underground oven-cooking is by heated 
stones. Alternate layers of hot stones and food are placed in the oven, 
and covered with matting, leaves or grass. This is a baking system. 
More frequently, the oven is lined with some vegetable substance, which 
may also be employed to separate the layers of food and stones. Steam 
is generated, and the eatables are most efficiently steamed. Both of these 
methods are admirable, and better in some respects than any of the mod- 
em civilized ways. Most of those who have eaten food prepared after 
this fashion are loud in its praise, and declare that it is superior in its 



DIET EPOCHS 17 

results to those attained by the most scientific and artistic French chef. 
The method is now practiced at the modern clam bake. 

BOILING OF WATER.— How to boil water was for long an insur- 
mountable obstacle to our prehistoric forefathers. The boiling of water 
as an ordinary branch of cooking is a discovery of comparatively recent 
origin, when the antiquity of the human species is taken into considera- 
tion. Natural hot-water springs and pools exist in- some parts of the 
world. Those in New Zealand are the most extensive and certainly the 
best known. Such opportunities no doubt were not neglected ; the Maoris 
of the present day use the boiling pools of New Zealand for cooking pur- 
poses. Again, stones were hollowed out by some of the more ingenious 
early savages, but this method involved a great deal of hard work, and 
also the possession of certain implements which only the most hardy, 
adaptable and intelligent of the cave men were able to manufacture, and 
therefore was not widely employed. As a matter of fact, there are tribes 
yet existing who do not know how to boil food. The Fuegans, the Bush- 
men and the Australian aborigines are all said to be unacquainted with 
this method, emphasizing the fact that boiling as a means of cooking was 
discovered, in the manner described above, long after baking or steaming. 
The Greeks at the time in which Homer wrote were not very highly 
skilled in the art of cookery. His description of how Achilles received 
three noble Greeks, one of whom was a king, shows that their manner of 
feasting was rude and unrefined. The meat — pork, mutton and goats' flesh 
— was grilled in a brazen vase over a blazing fire; the only other food 
served was bread and the beverage, wine. It has been observed that Homer 
never refers to boiled meat in any of his poems. The Egyptians, at the 
period in which Homer lived, were the most civilized people and were 
further advanced in cookery than any of the contemporary races. Even 
the Hebrews, owing to their sojourn in Egypt, had made more progress 
in the art of cookery than the Greeks. They had cooking utensils which 
they placed on the fire ; they boiled a good deal of their food, and it w^as 
in vessels made for the purpose of boiling that the wily Jacob prepared 
from red lentils the mess of pottage with which he maneuvered the un- 
suspicious Esau out of his birthright. 

The great obstacle to the boiling of water which was encountered 
by early man, was the lack of vessels which would resist the action of 
fire. The introduction of pottery, or was it of metal vessels, revolution- 
ized every detail of the entire science or art of cooking. No true cooking 
was known until cooking pots came into general use. Wliere roasting on 
a rough grill would be possible, a kind of spatchcock might be used. 



18 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 



How, then, did man boil water prior to the discovery of earthern or metal 
vessels? This question is impossible to answer except by an intelligent 
surmise. In the first place, the remains of prehistoric times must be 
searched. But these sources of information cannot be relied upon to any 
extent, because most of the appliances were probably made of easily de- 
structible material which would have utterly disappeared in a relatively 
short space of time. Hollowed stones were employed by the most hardy 
and practical of our savage ancestors for this purpose, but these were not 
in common use. 

For holding water primitive man no doubt used the shells of shellfish 
and egg shells of birds like the auk and other immense birds which inhab- 
ited the earth at different early periods of man's evolution before the 

making of pottery or metal vessels. 
The bamboo cane also was utilized, 
and there is little doubt that in the 
latter part of his hunting stage man 
learned to make vessels of skin and 
of plaited rushes. The only way of 
boiling food, especially meat, would 
be to stretch a hide over a hole in the 
ground, fill it with water, and then 
heat stones red hot and drop them in 
until the water boiled. Any non-fire- 
proof, water-tight vessel might be used 
in a similar way. Of course, this 
operation is extremely tedious and would hardly be likely to commend 
itself to the hunter. It may be taken for granted that the hunter did not, 
as a rule, boil his food, and that boil- 
ing meat and vegetables did not come 
into general use until the invention of 
the art of making pottery or of forging 
metal had been consummated. 

The customs of existing precibicul- 
turists must be looked into in order to 
obtain a likely solution of the problem 
as to how food was boiled before the 
age of pottery. The method of drop- 
ping heated stones into a water-tight 
vessel made of skin, bamboo or plaited 
rushes, is still in use among such ex- 




FiG. 1. — Stone-boiling. J^iftiiNg the 
Hot Stones into the Food Basket; 
California Indians. (Holmes.) 
( Courtesy of Smithsonian Institute. ) 




Fig. 2. — Stone - boiling. Removing 
THE Stones from the Boiling 
Basket; California Indians. 
(Holmes.) (Courtesy of Smith- 
sonian Institute.) 



DIET EPOCHS 19 

taut primitive people as the (^iliforiiiaii I iidians, the Eskimo and the Anda- 
inanese. The methods of cooking among the meat-eating Indian tribes of 
this continent were broiling, roasting and boiling. The last named process, 
known as ''stone boiling/' was done in plaited rnsh baskets. The tribes 
whose diet was approxinuitely vegetarian practiced all these methods, and 
the vessels most widely employed were constructed from closely plaited 
rushes. 

Utilization of tue Discovery of Pottery. — It is not definitely 
known whether the first cooking pot for boiling fluids was made of metal 
or earth. Campbell says that pottery which is of (juite recent introduc- 
tion was not employed by the precibiculturists. It is unknown to present- 
day precibiculturists, and belongs to the cibicultural period. This au- 
thority undoubtedly refers to '^recent introduction'' in a relative sense, 
the sense in which the vast antiquity of the world and of man is consid- 
ered, for he conjectures that the cibicultural period began a mere matter 
of some 30,000 years ago. 

How and where the first earthern pot was made is a mystery and 
must remain a mystery. We know that the art of making adobe bricks 
is of hoary antiquity, but according to many authorities that of molding 
clay into vessels is yet more ancient. Scott Elliott hypothesizes as fol- 
lows with regard to this discovery, which was pregnant with far-reaching 
effects in the evolution of man's diet: 

It is possible that a woman once took a basket to the riverside to bring home 
the fish that she hoped to catch. Laying it accidentally in the mud, the outside 
became plastered with sHme. When the fish were taken home she may have noticed 
til at some water remained in the basket. So she was led to experiment and perhaps 
carefully plastered the inside with mud and then burnt off the basket. 

It may then have been the natural curiosity of w^oman, handed do\vn 
to her from her original progenitor (we had almost said Eve, although 
to a believer in the Darwinian theory of the evolution of man, this would 
be a rank scientific heresy), to which we owe this epoch-making discovery 
of pottery. To carry this ingenious hypothesis to its legitimate conclu- 
sion, it may be inferred that the mud with which the basket w^as plas- 
tered was potter's clay. In any event, ever since that hypothetical but 
extremely likely happening, the handling of pots and pans has been 
severely left to the weaker sex. It may be further remarked that in sav- 
age communities, at least in most of such communities, it is the woman 
who makes the pots. It may be stated here, although the question is not 
particularly relevant to the matter in hand, that the earliest record of 
glass vessels seems to have been in Egypt about 4000 B. C. 



20 THE EVOLUTIOISr OF MAN'S DIET 

Application of Art of Boiling Water to Cookery. — ^When the 
boiling of fluids became not only possible but easy, cookery made a great 
advance. It was chiefly employed in the culinary preparation of vege- 
table products. Boiling softens their consistency and thus allows them 
to be more readily masticated. It loosens their intercellular structure, 
and, in consequence, facilitates the penetration of digestive juices into 
their substance. The action of boiling on the starch granule, the con- 
stituent which enters most largely into the composition of vegetable food, 
is most essential to good digestion. It causes the granule to swell and its 
outer envelope to burst. The digestive fluids are therefore permitted to 
come into direct contact with the central part of the starch granule. 

COOKING AMONG THE AMERICAN INDIANS.— With the discovery of 
vessels which resisted the action of fire, the art of cookery advanced by 
leaps and bounds. Among the Pueblo Indians, cooking is carried to a 
remarkable degree of proficiency, approaching in variety of methods the 
art among civilized peoples. Most Indian tribes have long known how 
to prepare savory and nourishing dishes, some of which have been adopted 
by civilized people. From the Indians have been derived ash cake, hoe 
cake, succotash, hominy and samp. 

The preparation of maize as food involved almost numberless proc- 
esses, varying with the tribes. In general, when maize reached the edible 
stage, the ears were roasted in pit ovens, and, after the feasting, the sur- 
plus of roasted ears was dried for further use. The matured grain was 
milled or parched, the meal entering into various mushes, cakes, pones, 
wafers and other bread. The grain was soaked in lye obtained from wood 
ashes to remove the horny envelope, and was then boiled and known as 
hominy. This was often dried, parched and ground, r^parched and re- 
ground, making a concentrated food of great nourishing power in small 
bulk, and was consumed dry or in water as a gruel. 

Pinole, which consists of ground parched corn, formed the favorite 
food of the Southwest Indian tribes. The fermentation of corn to make 
beer was not generally practiced among the American Indians, and it is 
doubtful if the process was known in America before its introduction by 
the white man. The Iroquois and other eastern tribes cooked maize with 
beans, meat or vegetables. The Pueblos added wood-ash lye to their 
"paper bread," and prepared their bread and mushes with meat, greens 
or oily seeds and nuts, besides using condiments, especially chile. 

Infusions of leaves, roots, etc., of various herbs were drunk by the 
Indians as medicine, but there is no record that they drank any stimu- 



DIET EPOrilS 21 

lating beverage such as tea or coffee. Drinks made from fruit, as cider 
from niaiizaiiita berries, and a beverage made from cactus fruit by the 
Tina and neighboring tribes of Arizona, are the Indian fermented drinks 
best known. 

METHODS USED BY OTHER PRIMITIVE PEOPLES.— Many of the 
modes of cooking meat which prevailed, and are still customary 
among primitive peoples, are excellent. In a recently published work 
of fiction written by the late Jack London is a description of 
the manner in which a native of one of the British Solomon Islands 
cooked a pigeon. Upon a clear burning fire of wood he placed many 
stones. He then wrapped a plump wood pigeon in leaves and surrounded 
it with heated stones and finally covered both pigeon and stones with 
earth. When after a time he removed the pigeon and stripped from it the 
scorched wrappings of leaves, it gave forth a scent so savory as to set the 
nostrils quivering. Gypsies generally use this style of cooking. A very 
delicious dish — an epicurean delicacy — is a fat hedgehog, which is cov- 
ered with clay and then placed in the hot embers of a wood fire for some 
time. When the hedgehog is removed from the fire and the caked clay 
is scraped off, it brings away with it the quills of the animah The meat 
is found to be done to a nicety, greatly resembling that of a suckling pig. 
Similar methods of cooking are employed by primitive people now extant. 

The Food of Precibiculturists. — Keference has been made in a general 
way to the diet of people who lived or are now living to all intents and 
purposes in much the same manner as our precursors lived. Some of 
these peoples, more backward than the others, live in a way similar to our 
homosimian progenitors. The measurements, contours and markings of 
the skulls of native Australians, Tasmanians, some Eskimos and a few 
members of other existing primitive races differ but little from those of 
apes, orang-outangs and of very early man. They live in a state of 
nature, go naked or nearly so. Their knowledge of everything is of the 
most elementary character; they know nothing of the arts, and their 
main concern is to satisfy the cravings of their appetites. The aborigines 
of Australia, the Californian Indians, the Bushmen of South Africa, the 
Veddahs of Ceylon and the Hairy Ainus are the most conspicuous exam- 
ples extant of men and women following a mode of life almost identical 
with many of our earliest ancestors, while other races more advanced in 
civilization still retain many of the primitive habits. 

The diet of our far-away progenitors has been discussed more or less 
fully, and it will be interesting to trace the connection between their 
dietetic habits and those of the races referred to above. 



22 THE evolittio:n" OF ma:n^'s diet 

THE DIET OF THE NOKTH AMERICAN INDIANS.— But before doing 
this, the food of the Indians of this continent before their range of 
land had been restricted will be considered. In general, in the northern 
portion of the continent, the diet was three-fourths animal food; in 
the southern part, it was three-fourths vegetable, while among the tribes 
of the coast, mountains, lakes and plains, it varied according to the food 
supply. The absence of dairy food limited the natural increase of popu- 
lation. The food supply changed with the seasons, causing the diet at 
different periods of the year to vary in its ratio of animal to vegetable 
constituents. Diet was also regulated or modified by religious customs. 
For example, the Apache and Navajo would not eat fish or the flesh of 
bear or beaver, and other tribes possessed taboo or totemic animals which 
though useful for food were not eaten. 

In inhospitable regions, inland from the Texas coast, in the sixteenth 
century, the natives subsisted on whatever they could find. Cabez de 
Vaca wrote of the Yquazas : 

Their support is chiefly roots, which require roasting two days; many are very 
bitter. Occasionally they take deer, and at times fish, but the quantity is so small 
and the famine so great that they eat spiders and the eggs of ants, worms, lizards, 
salamanders, snakes and vipers; and they eat earth and wood. They save the 
bones of the fishes they consume, of snakes, and other animals, that they may beat 
them together and eat the powder. 

Almost the same may be said of the Maidu of California, who, in 
addition to consuming every edible product, eat badgers, skunks, wild- 
cats and mountain lions, practically all birds except the buzzard, yellow- 
jacket larvae, grasshoppers, locusts and crickets, and even salmon bones 
and deer vertebrae. 

Vegetable food comprised a vast array of the products of plant life, 
of which roots and seeds were the most valuable. The most important 
food plant possessed by the Indians was maize, which formed and still 
forms their principal means of subsistence. Uncultivated plants, as seeds, 
roots and flowers of grasses and other plants, or parts of plants used for 
flavoring, etc., also entered into the dietary. In numberless cases wild 
plants have preserved tribes from starvation. In the southwest of the 
continent, cactus and yucca fruits, mesquite beans and the agave were 
most important elements of the food supply. As in Mexico, the roasted 
fleshy leaves and leaf matrix of the agave were prized as sweet, nourish- 
ing food. Tuckaho and other fungi were used for food by the eastern 
Indians. The north Pacific tribes made much use of the sweet inner 



DIET EPOCHS 



23 



bark of the lieinlock and spruce. Salt was tabooed by the Onondaga, and 
lye substituted by some of the southern Indians. Chile, which is of 
Mexican origin, became known throughout the Southwest, and saffron, an 
introduced plant, is still in use there to Havor and color food. Through- 
out xSew England and southeast Canada sugar was produ(!ed by the evapo- 
ration of the maple sap. In the Southeast it was derived from the willow 
and agave. In some localities clay was eaten, either alone or mixed with 
food or taken in conjunction with wild potatoes to mitigate the griping 
effects of the acrid tuber. 

In general, buifalo, the deer family and fish were the animals most 
useful for food. Some woodland tribes depended on deer, while the coast 
and river tribes usually made special 

use of fish and other products of lakes 2a«-^^ — '^^^r ■-, .- r - _ . ' 
and rivers. The porcupine is said to 
have been the chief food animal of the 
Montagnais. All the edible portions of 
the animal were put to use. In many 
cases both animal and vegetable sub- 
stances advanced toward putrefaction 
were preferred, as salmon eggs which 
were stored in sand by the Alaskans, 
and immature corn in the ear w^hich 
the Hurons are said to have soaked in 
water until it became putrid, when soup 
was made of it. 

The description of the manner in 
which these Indians were accustomed to 
procure their food supply, before their 
hunting grounds were taken from them 
and the buffaloes disappeared, has been 
introduced because it referred to the 

original inhabitants of the land, and because the food of some of the 
tribes was similar to that now eaten by existing primitive people. With 
few exceptions, the Indians of North America and Canada were of a 
higher type than the Australians, Bushmen of South Africa and the 
Veddahs, but some, notably the Maidu of California, may be placed 
in the same category. Moreover, according to some authorities, it was 
in North America that the very first primate originated, and perhaps, 
although this may be considered a far-fetched view, the Indian is un- 
doubtedly the descendant of the North American primate. 




^^fJTf^r. 



Fig. 3. — Pueblo Indians Planting 
Corn. (Courtesy of Smithsonian 
Institute.) 



24 THE EVOLUTIOX OF MAX'S DIET 

DIET OF BACKWARD PRECIBICULTURISTS.— In a summary of the 
diet of the most backward of existing precibicultural people, which is 
practically the same as that of our remote hunting ancestors, it may be 
said that ''all is game that comes to their net'' — large animals, when they 
can be caught or killed; and when these are not available, the smallest 
and most humble specimens of the animal world are not despised, 
such as grubs, worms, scorpions, grasshoppers, centipedes, crickets, 
locusts and hoc omnia genera. White ants are considered a delicacy, 
while as mentioned before, frogs, toads, lizards and snakes are consumed 
with the greatest appreciation. The Veddah pygmies of Ceylon up to a 
short time ago lived in rock shelters and caves and subsisted on honey, 
grubs, bats, pythons, lizards and an occasional larger animal. 

Human Elesh. — Some of the extant savage tribes are cannibals, but 
cannibalism is more of an incident than a custom, for reasons into which 
it would be superfluous to enter. A strong suspicion of cannibalism rests 
upon the Neanderthaler, but judging from the evidence of remains, can- 
nibalism was uncommon among early races, and all evidence is against 
the theory that they ate one another habitually. Big game is the food of 
choice, and many of those races who inhabit the immense forests and 
other inaccessible parts of the world are uncanny in their skill in track- 
ing, entrapping and killing animals even of the largest size. 

Big Game. — Big game supplies the bulk of the animal food supply 
of the extant precibiculturists. The Andamanese or Semangs of the 
Malay Peninsula have the hunting instinct so abnormally developed that 
they are able to track a snake by smell and are quite extraordinary hunters 
of big game. It is related that when they see elephants ascending a hill, 
small parties of two or three will lie in wait armed with splinters of bam- 
boo, which have been hardened in the fire and tipped with poison. The 
elephant descends the hill slowly, the Semang steals behind it and seizing 
bis opportunity, drives the poisoned splinter into the sole of the elephant's 
foot. These same men are also said to kill the rhinoceros by placing tiny 
strips of poisoned bamboo in the jungle path frequented by game. They 
are amazingly clever in the manufacture of snares, nooses and traps of all 
kinds. Like their simian precursors, they make use of the almost endless 
varieties of creepers with which the jungle abounds, some of which rival 
steel in elasticity and strength, while others may be compared with the 
finest wire for flexibility and toughness (4). 

The mode of life of the pygmies is nearer to that of the living anthro- 
poid apes than in the case of any other group of mankind. They were 
and are still, to some extent, the neighbors of elephants, rhinoceri, hip- 



DIET EPOCHS 25 

popotami, as well as of the anthropoid apes. Indeed, they represent the 
earliest type of lone hunters of the jungle, inhahiting their depths on 
inaccessible and remote hills. The native Australians who live inland 
are also expert hunters, but are not so acute of brain as the pygmies. 
Nevertheless, they nuinage to subsist mainly on the kangaroos and other 
marsupials which they ensnare or kill. 

Fish Food. — The Eskimos depend for their food supply chiefly on 
the seal, walrus and whale; the Fuegans live mainly on seal and por- 
poises; other tribes, inhabiting the vicinity of the sea, catch turtles, 
sw^ordfish, salmon and other fish to augment their limited larder. In this 
connection, it is interesting to note that a harpoon, identical in make and 
composition to that employed by men many thousand years ago, is used 
at the present time by the Eskimo for seal, and the Andamanese for spear- 
ing turtle. Similar harpoons are used by the American Indians, Ainus, 
Kurile Islanders and Yahgans. Polybius has described an exactly similar 
method of fishing for swordfish as in use during his day in the Mediter- 
ranean, that is, from 135 to 50 B. C.(5). 

All maritime tribes, whether living on the shores of oceans or seas, 
or inhabiting the neighborhood of lakes or rivers, subsist largely on fish 
which they catch and eat in the same manner as in prehistoric times. 
There is some difi^erence of opinion as to whether the races referred to at 
the beginning of this section eat flesh raw or cooked. Some authorities 
assert that, contrary to popular belief, the Indians, as a rule, prefer cooked 
food, and that the Eskimos, whose name signifies "eaters of raw flesh," 
eat uncooked meat only when absence of fuel prohibits cooking, or as a 
side dish. Campbell states that the Eskimo never hesitates to devour 
frozen flesh raw, and considers the raw viscera of the ptarmigan a great 
delicacy. Even when these primitive people cook food it is only sub- 
jected to heat for a short time and is seldom more than partially cooked. 
Sun drying is largely resorted to in the case of insects, flesh food and fish 
by primitive people, after which process it is stored. The Boers of South 
Africa sun dry meat, which is known as biltong. 

VecxEtable Foods. — It has been sufliciently emphasized that roots 
formed the staple aliment of precibiculturists, and that to women fell the 
lot of digging this food. 

Small Seeds. — Payne holds that the cultivation of cereals paved the 
way to civilization, but the truth is rather that it was to no one form of 
food to which civilization may be ascribed. The cereals are easily the 
most important products of the vegetable world, owing to their nutritive 
properties and to the fact that they can readily be preserved by storage 



26 THE EVOLUTIOISr OF MAWS DIET 

and other means ; on the other hand, it must not be forgotten that there 
are other vegetable foods which are highly nutritious, among which the 
pulses occupy a foremost rank. It has also been pointed out that of the 
small seeds, the grass seeds were the most important, for it was owing 
to these seeds that the cultivation of cereals was initiated. Whatever may 
have brought about the beginnings of cultivation, it is enlightening to 
find that many primitive people, who lived chiefly on seeds and fruit, 
never discovered how to improve the wild, rudimentary seeds and fruits 
by cultivation. ^This is the case with the Luiseno Indians, who divided 
up the land among the various families, and lived on the seeds of wild 
oats, clover, sage and chenopodium as well as on acorns, berries and bulbs, 
but planted nothing." The Kivakiuti Indians in North America collected 
berries and roots, drying them for use in winter, and eating them with 
fish oil (3). ^The Australian women regularly collected wild rice, millet 
and leguminous seeds, which they ground into a sort of meal. In 
Selangore, Malaya, the natives were accustomed at certain seasons to go 
to those parts of the jungle where there were many fruit trees. They ate 
fruit in small shelters erected for the purpose. Having noticed that there 
were more young trees near these huts, they made fresh shelters in various 
places, and even went so far as to clear away the jungle around the young 
trees, but they never planted a single tree" (4). There are several primi- 
tive races now extant who do not cultivate the land and others who only 
cultivate it slightly. They collect the seeds of various grasses which they 
store and eat, but go no further. 

Larger Seeds and Nuts. — The acorn, cactus, watermelon and so on 
were largely consumed by the precibiculturists. Acorns, wherever the oak 
tree flourishes, were a favorite food of the early European races as they 
are still of some of the primitive people of the earth. In the brushwood 
of the temperate climes and on river sides, besides the acorn will be found 
hazel-nut, hawthorn, w^alnut and edible chestnut. 

Fruits and Berries. — Many luscious fruits and berries were and still 
are eaten. Among the fruits in tropical or semitropical climates, the 
banana and breadfruit are the most nutritious and agreeable to the taste. 
Ancestral forms of both of these fruits were flourishing as far back as the 
Eocene period. If it were not for the banana and the breadfruit, many 
of the precibiculturists of the present day, notably those of the Pacific 
Islands, would be forced to starve or learn to work. The banana is one 
of the most nutritious foods, because of its considerable carbohydrate and 
small protein content, and also because it can be made into flour and 
cooked as bread. It is closely followed by the fig, the grape and the date, 



DIET EPO("IIS 27 

the last named coustituting the staple diet of the Arab raees. Green vege- 
tables are eaten by the native Australians and by the Californians, espe- 
cially clover in the spring. 

Honey. — The anticjiiity of honey is not known; there is nothing to 
show whether the honey ant, termites and the honey bee existed in the 
Eocene, period, but it is known that in the Pliocene period, in Mesopo- 
tamia, for example, honey was eaten by the lemurs, anthropoid apes, and 
by our precursors. The Australian aborigines are large consumers of 
honey. In fact, wherever the climate is propitious and the honey makers 
can live, honey is a favorite article of diet of primitive people. 

Condiments. — The subject of condiments will be exhaustively consid- 
ered in this volume/ and the matter perhaps has no influential l)earing 
on the evolution of man's diet. Nevertheless, the question of rendering 
food which is naturally insipid and unpalatable, appetizing, by the addi- 
tion of savory substances known as condiments, has from certain points 
of view a relation to dietary evolution. 

Appetizing food, even while it is still in the mouth, and before 
entering the stomach, excites the secretion of the gastric and pan- 
creatic juices and that of the saliva, so that a food that is unpalatable and 
indigestible may be readily digestible if it is rendered appetizing by the 
agency of a condiment. The Hindoo adds curry to his tasteless rice and 
the Spaniard onions to his bread. For a similar reason, condiments are 
added to palatable food in order to heighten its appetizing qualities, as 
for instance, mustard, caper sauce, apple jelly and last but not least, salt, 
for salt is essentially a condiment, since the daily food ingested by the 
civilized man provides sufficient sodium salts for the body needs, although 
such food is not salty to the taste. 

The action of salt as a condiment deserves further study (see Chapter 
XI of this Volume) because the development of flavor, which the addition 
of salt induces, is due to increased osmotic action. The addition of salt 
conspires to produce an isotonic fluid with more rapid traveling activi- 
ties, stimulating salivary flow and subsequently the secretion of the gas- 
tric fluid. The evidence in favor of the use of salt and of other condi- 
ments is that the palatability of food is increased, and probably also its 
absorption value. It must be borne in mind that saliva digests starchy 
material and stimulates the secretion of gastric juice, which stimulates 
the intestine when the gastric juice enters the duodenum. An enzyme is 
produced in the mucous membrane to which Bayliss and Starling have 



1 Chapter XVII. 



28 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

given the name of secretin. This in turn is absorbed and carried by the 
blood to the pancreas, to which it acts as a stimulant and causes it to 
secrete an active digestive juice. It is therefore a desirable object to 
increase the flow of the saliva by means of condiments added to otherwise 
unpalatable food. 

Man used condiments ages ago, probably when he first became gre- 
garious. He did this first by coction, not long after he had learned the 
art of roasting flesh. He found that such meat was palatable and easily 
digested on account of its sodium chlorid content. He then learned the 
habit of smearing his cooked vegetables with drippings of fat from the 
roasted meat. Salt was the condiment next employed, and for many cen- 
turies, condiments too numerous almost to name have been used. 

Precibicultukists as Botanists. — But the use of this wide variety 
of foods came about after centuries of small advances. ^'Necessity is a 
hard master, but whoever fully graduates in this school has thoroughly 
learned his lesson.'' This saying applies with great force to the precibi- 
culturists in their search for and preparation of food. With them it was 
■ a case of the survival of the fittest, for those who did not learn which 
vegetables or plants were good to eat or how to prepare them in the best 
way, did not survive. By generations of this striving with nature to 
wrest from her a living, these people developed a marvelous instinct as to 
which plant was nutritious and which poisonous, and this instinct has 
been handed down to the present generation of primitive men. This 
^'handing down" from generation to generation may also be rightly 
termed the reeducation of each generation in the judicious selection 
and preparation of vegetable foods. Knowledge of this character ac- 
quired through enormous toil and pain is one not likely to be lost. 

All the precibiculturists are practical and sound botanists, and they 
not only have learned to choose plants best adapted to nourish them, 
but also how to prepare these natural products in the most eftective and 
suitable manner possible. They are versed in the best modes of gathering 
and hulling the wild cereals, how to dry, grind and store berries and 
roots, and to make biscuits and cakes, and they are able to distinguish be- 
tween a poisonous and innocuous plant with unerring accuracy. The 
pygmies were the very first race to acquire a thorough knowledge of bot- 
any and to realize its importance. If a pygmy is of the opinion that a 
fruit may be poisonous, he will soak it for two or three days, and then 
give it to one of his dogs, and if the animal does not become ill, he will 
eat it himself. Even from unpleasant tasting and poisonous vegetable sub- 
stances pygmies will prepare wholesome and palatable foods by maceration 



DIET KPOCHS 



29 



and the application of 1 



are excellent botanists, and on occasions 



icat. it is well known that many American tribes 
good h(U'balist doctors. As strik- 
ing evidence of their knowledge of herbs, Raffour(r)) states that the very 
first botanic garden in which medical herbs were grown for the use of 
medical students and thoir teachers seoms to have been in Mexico. 

The Beverages of Precibicultural Man. — The beverages used by ancient 
races are — (a) water, (h) milk, (c) oil, {d) the juices of fruits and 
sap of trees, (e) fermented liquors, (/) distilled liquors, (g) tea infu- 
sion, (h) coffee infusion, (i) chocolate and broths. Blood was occasion- 
ally used as a beverage in days long past. The Huns are said to have 
been in the habit of drinking the blood of their horses, and it is also 
stated that the Ostjaks of the Obi valley were very fond of reindeer and 
bear blood, which they drank while warm. The blood of human victims 
was at one time drunk by some cannibals and savage warriors. 

WATER.— Water is the natural drink of the races who have advanced 
little in development. The animal or man who drinks only to quench his 
thirst, does so v^^ith the means by which this aim can be most effectually 
attained. It was an instinct with primeval man, as with the rest of the 
brute creation, to assuage his thirst v^ith water, which is still an instinct 
with the precibiculturist. It is true that many of them rapidly develop 
a taste for alcohol, but this is an acquired taste, an abnormal appetite. 
However, in their wild state they know nothing of fermented beverages, 
which belong more or less essentially to the agricultural period. 

Water is the main and universal drink of precibiculturists, and the 
water which they use for drinking purposes is procured from lake, pool, 
spring or stream. In dry, sandy countries, in lands in which droughts 
are long continued and frequent, as in parts of Australia, the aborigines 
have been known to dig wells to a depth of several feet. But this is very 
seldom done, for two reasons : first, because it entails too much hard work 
w^hen they lack the appliances requisite for digging; second, because most 
primitive people are nomads, and whenever possible choose sites for an 
encampment where water is easily available. Furthermore, on account of 
the wandering habits of precibiculturists, and also because they travel in 
small numbers, the water they drink is, for the most part, free from con- 
tamination and infected matter, and therefore water-borne diseases are 
practically unknown to them. 

Primitive man, in the majority of instances, drinks in the same man- 
ner as his ancestor, the anthropoid ape. He bends down and applies his 
mouth directly to the liquid and sucks it up, or he may make use of his 
hands as a receptacle. Mr. Hillier, quoted by Campbell, says that certain 



30 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

Australian tribes employ a method of drinking which may be described 
as '^hand lapping." The water is shot with remarkable accuracy from 
one hand into the mouth, which is held from twelve to eighteen inches 
above the pool, the hand traveling to within about six inches of the mouth. 
Drinking vessels of any description are only quite occasionally used. It 
is an interesting fact, and one which may be recommended to the attention 
of the medical profession, that, like the lower animals, primitive man 
seldom, if ever, drinks with his meals. 

But although it is probably blind instinct which prompts primitive 
peoples not to drink with their meals, not the knowledge that the habit is 
not conducive to good health, they are not entirely ignorant of the fact 
that water possesses medicinal properties. Some savage races, notably the 
native Australians, drink large quantities of water for the relief of dys- 
pepsia. It is possible that the imbibing of considerable quantities of hot 
water, which was prescribed by many physicians not long ago in the treat- 
ment of indigestion, may have had its origin in the practice of these sav- 
age tribes. The cold bath is also occasionally recommended by those 
versed in medical lore among primitive people. The Fuegans, when suf- 
fering from certain complaints of a feverish character, in the endeavor to 
promote perspiration, imbibed copious draughts of water, presumably 
hot, and the northern California Indians employ a Turkish bath to open 
the pores of the skin freely, with the view of relieving or curing various 
infections. 

MILK.— The ancients — by these we mean the Greeks, Eomans and per- 
haps the Egyptians — did not drink animal milk to any extent as a bever- 
age, but converted it into cheese. Dogs' and cows' milk was used; the 
milk of the former is not much used nowadays, but the milk of the cow, 
ewe, goat and ass in Europe and America, of the buffalo in Africa, of the 
camel in Persia, of the mare in Tartary, of the reindeer in Lapland, of 
the llama and vicuna in South America, and of the yak in the Pamirs and 
Tibet, has been and is still used largely for drinking purposes, as well as 
for making cheese and butter. 

OIL. — Oil was and is still used by some of the northern races, although 
more with the view of maintaining their animal heat than as a beverage. 
The drinking of oil dates back to the period when man first lived in Arctic 
regions. It was an instinct with him, as much as drinking water to 
quench thirst was with the savage. The amount of oil and blubber in- 
gested each day by an Eskimo is prodigious. However, all people who 
live in very cold climates imbibe oil and oleaginous food as necessities. 
It is related that after Napoleon was finally beaten, and there was a large 



DIET KPOCHS 



31 



gathering of allied troops in London to (ciebrate this event, the Siberian 
Cossacks, who were among these troops, swarmed around the street lamps, 
which at that time were lighted by moans of oil, and eagerly consumed 
the oil contained therein. Also not long after this peaceful incursion of 
the Cossacks from the Don, London experienced a dearth of tallow can- 
dles. 

JUICES OF FRUITS.— It is reasonable to suppose that the cocoanut 
flourished countless ages ago. Indeed, palm trees are known to have ex- 
isted in the Eocene age. This being the case, there can be little doubt 
that the abundant juice of the cocoanut furnished milk even before agri- 
culture and the domestication of animals was practiced. This milk was 
without doubt the most ancient of lacteal ihiids, and was used by the mefi 
of those times to quench thirst when cool water was not accessible, in the 
same manner as the primitive races of such regions employ this juice at 
the present time. 

It may also be assumed that in tropical and warm climates our ances- 
tors took advantage of the juices of some of the fruits and employed them 
as cooling beverages. 

FERMENTED LIQUORS.— With regard to the drinking of alcohol in any 
form among primitive men, little, perhaps none, was consumed. The 
same may be asserted of existing precibiculturists, but with a certain 
amount of reserve. 

According to Giradin, the Araucanians before having had relations 
with other nations, made the fermented drink, now called chica, of maize. 
The Chinese almost from time immemorial have drunk a liquor made 
from rice fermentation. Beer is supposed to have been invented in 1996 
B. C. Herodotus and other historians state that beer was the most com- 
mon drink among the Egyptians, who called it hekt. From the results of 
an investigation as to the use of fermented drinks by prehistoric peoples, 
M. G. de Mortillet concludes that the lake dwellings of CTlairv^aux in the 
Jura, and of Switzerland, show that the neolithic people of Central 
Europe had a wine made from raspberries and mulberries, and the dwell- 
ings of Bourget in Savoy and various stations in the Alps appear to tes- 
tify that the use of this wine continued through the Bronze Age. On the 
southern slope of the Alps, the relics of the dwellings built between the 
prehistoric and protohistoric ages reveal the use of another fermented 
liquor prepared from the dogw^ood. Traces of the use of grape wine are 
found in the terra mares of the plain of the Po, going as far back as the 
earliest Bronze Age (13). 

The precibiculturists of the present time make some artificial drinks 



32 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

on a small scale. The native Australians make a beverage by dissolving 
manna, a sweet substance which exudes from the leaves of certain gum 
trees, and gum acacia in water. Reference has already been made to a 
kind of cider made from manzanita berries by the California Indians. 
Referring to this beverage, Campbell does not seem to regard it as an 
alcoholic beverage, although he calls it a liquor. He says, ''The precibi- 
culturists are wholly ignorant of the art of making alcohol, and that dis- 
covery belongs to the agricultural period.'' It undoubtedly is true, in the 
main, that the ancient precibiculturists were probably entirely ignorant 
of how to make alcohol. I3r. Charles Rice (16) in a private letter re- 
ferred to by an anonymous author said that while he supposed it was 
quite possible that the Hindoos knew distilled spirits quite early, it has 
been found that we cannot go back beyond about 910 A. D. for any 
positive evidence. The precibiculturists who live at the present time are 
for the most part ignorant of that art, but not entirely so. Further valu- 
able information with respect to the history of distillation is given by 
Dr. C. E. Pellew(15) and Babcock(14). 



CIBICULTURAL EPOCH 

The discovery or invention of cookery, especially of that branch which 
rendered the boiling of liquids feasible, was the first and perhaps the most 
important factor in the evolution of man's diet. The introduction of 
agriculture and the domestication of animals led to a further advance. 
Whether or not agriculture preceded the domestication of animals is of 
small consequence. Scott Elliott (2) seems inclined to think that domes- 
tication of animals was brought about first, while Campbell is of the 
opinion that agriculture had its beginning before the herdsman came into 
being. Campbell says that it is certain that in the New World, at any 
rate, plants were cultivated before animals were domesticated. Scott 
Elliott and most writers on prehistoric times regard Asia as the original 
home of the human species. 

Domestication of Animals. — The taming and subjection of wild animals 
was an immense advance in civilization. From remains it appears prob- 
able that almost all our domestic animals were first brought under human 
control in Asia. The dog was the first animal to be domesticated, but as 
he was not eaten, except under unusual circumstances, it will be unneces- 
sary to consider the manner in which his progenitor, the wolf, was sub- 
dued and trained. The reindeer affords a good example of the way in 



DIET EPOCHS 33 

which animals are domesticated. The Tschuktchi, a tribe who live in a 
cold and inhospitable part of northeastern Asia, possess half wild herds 
of these animals. They are only half taniod and are liable to stampede 
at any time. These tribesmen have faint ideas of breeding, but the ani- 
mals are only used for food and clothing. The Lapps have herds of rein- 
deer, which are much more domesticated ; these animals supply them with 
flesh and clothing, milk and cheese, and in addition do draught work. 

Cows seem to have been first domesticated some twelve thousand years 
ago, probably at Anan in Turkestan. The history of the sheep is even 
more difficult to trace, hut the goat is said to be descended from the wild 
species of Asia Minor and the Grecian Islands. Swine flesh as a food 
was of greater importance in prehistoric times than now. In Caesar's 
time, pork with milk was the main diet of the Celts and their hams had 
a wide reputation in the Roman world. The history of the common hog 
resembles in most respects that of other animals. The greater part of our 
modern breeds are descended from the almost universally distributed 
wild boar. 

Introduction of Agriculture.— Campbell puts the commencement of the 
agricultural period at 30,000 years ago, and if this conjecture is correct, 
then that period began some thousands of years before the domestication 
of animals. 

It is certain, however, that both of these forward steps greatly mul- 
tiplied man's opportunities to ascend in the scale of development, and 
solidified his position as the undisputed ruler of the animal kingdom. 
Before these times he was compelled to spend most of his time hunting 
for food. His brain power was encouraged to develop in one direction 
only. When he was able to cultivate the greater part of his food supply, 
and raise animals of many kinds as well as build vessels to catch fish, his 
position was assured. He was no longer at the mercy of the elements or 
of chance, but could train them in many and diverse directions. Diet, 
therefore, has had a preponderating influence upon the evolution of man, 
and he has ascended largely by means of this evolution. Again, so long 
as cooking, in all its branches, was unknown ; cultivation of plants undis- 
covered and domestication of animals not practiced; man was unable to 
rise much above the level of brute creation. 

At first, agriculture w^as carried on in a desultory manner. The 
ground was not actually cultivated, but areas of virgin soil were utilized 
for raising crops and then abandoned for some other location of a like 
character. Man was still more the hunter than the farmer ; the habits of 
generations could not be given up at once, and for a long period he hunted 



34 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

and fished and lived chiefly on flesh. At hest, his methods of cultivation 
were elementary. 

As agriculture developed, he began to obtain the bulk of his animal 
food from domesticated animals and fishing, and his vegetable food was 
supplied chiefly by his farming activities, although he still ate small 
amounts of uncultivated vegetable food. His progress in the methods 
of cultivating land and of breeding animals was necessarily slow. Certain 
races of men were better adapted for what may be termed stationary 
agriculture than others. To the long-headed Mediterranean races may 
be credited the beginnings of agriculture, and to the brachycephalic type 
of mankind, inhabitants of Asia, may be attributed the domestication of 
animals. 

STATIONARY AGRICULTURE.— It is a fascinating study to try to trace 
the origin of any happening which has conduced to the betterment of the 
race, and naturally the question of the beginnings of stationary agricul- 
ture are of supreme interest. At best, it is largely guess work and the 
nearest guess as to the date of the first harvest is between 15000 B. C. 
and 10000 B. C. A few thousand years, when considering the evolution 
of man's diet, is of no especial moment. Campbell puts the commence- 
ment of stationary agriculture at 15,000 years ago. Our cultivated plants 
should supply some sort of an explanation of this puzzle. If most of them 
are found wild in one district, the likelihood is that the first harvest field 
was in this section. However, it is obvious that there must have been two 
centers, one of which was in the Old World and the other in the New 
World. According to Herodotus, at the time the pyramids were built in 
Chaldea, 6000 B. C, onions, leek, garlic, carrot, parsnip, turnip, beet 
and lettuce were cultivated, while wheat, barley, rye, oats and rice had 
been used for 5,000 years. 

Earxy Agriculture in America. — In America, in Mexico and Peru, 
about the same time, agriculture, including methods of manuring, 
irrigation, was as well understood as in Egypt or Mesopotamia. Of the 
American plants the following are the most important : maize, scarlet run- 
ner and vegetable marrow, which appear to be natives of Mexico or Cen- 
tral America. Constantin and Bois(6) found in Peruvian tombs at 
Ancon four kinds of maize. Ground nut, manioc, potato, canavali, kid- 
ney bean, phaseolus lunatus and tomato came from Peru or Chile. In 
fact, the Jerusalem artichoke is the only American plant which has not 
been traced to Mexico or Peru. 

Indeed, an American work dealing with the relation of the develop- 
ment of agriculture, to the evolution of man's diet, would not be complete 



DIET EPOCHS 35 

without a summary of early American agriculture, and of the mode in 
which the aborigines of this continent raised their crops. 

It is erroneous to believe that when America was first discovered by 
the white man, the Indian inhabitants were mere hunters. Of course, 
they depended largely upon the bison for their animal food, but according 
to the records of the early discoverers, a considerable proportion of the 
Indians from the border of the western plains to the Atlantic dwelt in 
settled vilhiges and cultivated the soil. De Soto found all the tribes that 
he visited, from the Florida peninsula to the western part of Arkansas, 
cultivating maize and other food plants. The earliest voyagers found the 
same thing true along the Atlantic shore from Florida to Massachusetts. 
Capt. John Smith and his Jamestown Colony depended at first for sub- 
sistence largely upon the products of Indian cultivation. Jacques Car- 
tier had the same experience, while Champlain and La Salle found 
Indians in the parts of the continent through which they traveled, cul- 
tivating and subsisting on maize. "Indian corn, the great American 
cereal," said Brinton(7), "was found in cultivation from the southern 
extremity of Chile to the 50th parallel of K latitude." Du Pratz(8) 
remarked, "All the nations who inhabit from the sea as far as the Illinois, 
and even further, carefully cultivate the maize corn, which they make 
their principal subsistence." 

The great length of the period during which maize had been in cul- 
tivation previous to the discovery of America is proved by its differentia- 
tion into varieties and by the fact that charred corn and impressions of 
corn on burnt clay have been found in the tombs and in the ruins of pre- 
historic Pueblos in the Southwest. Delaware traditions and proofs found 
among the remains of the oldest mounds also show that the Indians must 
have been tillers of the soil in very early times. 

^N'ot only are we indebted to the Indians for the maize itself, but also 
the methods of planting, storing and using it. Bancroft (9) says that 
"from the earliest information we have of the Pueblo Indians, they are 
known to have been tillers of the soil, and though the implements used and 
their methods of cultivation were both simple and primitive, cotton, corn, 
and wheat after its introduction, beans, with many varieties of fruit, were 
raised in abundance." It has been mentioned that the very early in- 
habitants of Mexico comprehended the art of cultivating the soil by means 
of irrigation and manuring. The same so far as irrigation is concerned 
may be said regarding the Indians of "New Mexico and Arizona. 
Hodge (10) says, "In the valleys of the Salado and Gila, in South Ari- 
zona, however, casual observation is sufficient to demonstrate that the 



36 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

ancient inhabitants engaged in agriculture by artificial irrigation to a vast 
extent." 

There is evidence also to show that the early Indians used fertilizers. 
The Plymouth colonists were told by the Indians to add fish to the old 
grounds (Bradford, 11). The implements they employed in cultivating 
the ground are described as "wooden howes" and "spades made of hard- 
wood.'' Mention is also made of shells used as digging implements. Cer- 
tain stone implements found in vast numbers are generally conceded to 
have been used in breaking up the soil. 

Primitive Milling. — It will be in place to refer briefly to the primi- 
tive ways of grinding corn. In Chile within recent years, Scott Elliott (2) 
has witnessed threshing of corn by driving a herd of brood mares round 
and round in a circle, and in so doing hammering out the corn with their 
hoofs. In Palestine oxen were used for the same purpose. It is possible 
that at first corn was simply steeped in water and not ground at all (12). 

The first mill was obviously any convenient flat rock, upon which the 
ears of corn were spread and crushed and bruised by a stone. The quern 
was the most effective early appliance for grinding grain into meal or 
flour, and consists of two circular stones, the lower firmly placed in a 
wooden frame. Through the upper stone is pierced a small hole, in which 
a short stick is tightly fixed. A woman turns this stick in the same way 
as a millstone and thus grinds the grain. Such mills date back to the 
Copper Age, and have survived up to recent times in civilized countries. 

But to return to the general discussion on the development of agricul- 
ture, it is evident that the establishment of a system of stationary agricul- 
ture meant the establishment of what we know as civilization. So long 
as man was wholly or mainly concerned in searching for and preparing 
food, his aims were wholly materialistic, for he could not give the time 
to any other employment. After the domestication of animals, the culti*- 
vation of the land and the practice of cooking had been placed on a sound 
basis, man was comparatively free to launch out in new fields of endeavor. 
By the planting of the first seed or by the placing in the ground of the 
first kernel, the possibilities for human development were immeasurably 
advanced. Crops yielded twenty or thirty fold in a good fertile soil, 
therefore sufiicient food for a large family could be raised on a small 
area. 

INFLUENCE OF AGRICULTURE UPON CIVILIZATION.— This state of 
affairs rendered possible the forming of communities where men could 
permanently enjoy the society of their fellow men. By such means a new 
type of man was evolved, and instead of being the bond-servant of nature, 



DIET EPOCHS 37 

he became in some degree its master. As cultivation improved, it was 
found that only a small proportion of the population was required to raise 
crops, fruits and cattle, and the remainder were released to use their 
brains and brawn in other channels. 

First villages sprang up, then towns and cities. Industrialism was 
initiated, the arts had their disciples, and finally that complex division 
of labor and of occupations which marks the social progress known as 
modern civilization was gradually evolved. All this wonderful progress 
was due to the cultivator of the soil and the breeder and rearer of domes- 
ticated animals termed the farmer. The farmer who tills the soil and 
raises flocks and herds, and the fisherman who reaps the harvest of the 
seas, are still the most necessary members of the community, for by the 
labor of the farmer and fisherman, especially the farmer, sufficient food is 
produced to maintain a vast population whose energies are released for 
specialized work. Consequently, up to a certain point diet has played the 
principal part in the evolution of man. 

Relation of Climate to Diet. — But although agriculture, man's own in- 
vention, has varied and amplified the food supply, it is necessary to em- 
phasize the natural features which affect diet. A direct relation exists 
between climate and the consumption of food. In cold climates, exercise 
and cold sharpen the appetite, and therefore more food is consumed. On 
the other hand, in a warm climate leading to a state of inactivity, there 
is less inclination to eat. 

Not only is there a correspondence between the amount of food in- 
gested and the inclination for taking it, but probably, from the exercise 
of instinct supplemented by experience, the nature of the food selected, 
in different climes, is found to vary, and to constitute that which is most 
in conformity with what is needed. Moreover, the various climates pro- 
duce in a large degree the kind of food best suited to keep the inhabitants 
in health. Vegetables which produce carbohydrates will not grow in very 
cold climates, and, even if they could be grown, they could not be con- 
sumed in sufficient quantities to yield the necessary amount of heat. The 
dwellers in the arctic regions consume prodigious amounts of heat-gen- 
erating material, fatty matter procured from the bodies of seals and 
whales which abound in that part of the world. Conversely, the inhabi- 
tants of the torrid zone subsist chiefly on vegetable products highly 
charged with carbohydrate material in place of fat. The vegetables and 
fruits which grow in the tropics are exactly adapted to the bodily needs 
of the inhabitants. The succulent fruits and vegetables upon which the 
natives of very hot countries prefer to feed, contain little carbon, whereas, 



38 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

the oil and blubber which enter largely into the diet of those who live in 
the extreme north, contain a very large proportion of carbon. 

A temperate climate lends itself more to an omnivorous diet, some- 
thing between the two extremes of far north and far south. Custom in 
such climates has led to the selection of a mixed diet, which furnishes the 
combination of the two heat-producing principles. The diet should be 
made to conform to the principle of adaptability to the particular re- 
quirement existing. It should be pointed out that in discussing the ques- 
tion of the evolution of man's diet, the dwellers in the temperate climates 
are almost invariably referred to. Most of what has been said does not 
apply at all, or only partly, to the inhabitants of the arctic regions and 
of the tropics. 

In order to give emphasis to these statements, it will be of interest to 
quote from various authors describing the kind of food consumed by the 
inhabitants of different parts of the globe. 

Lubbock (17) reports that "the Eskimos are mainly an animal-feeding 
people, and their food consists of reindeer, musk-ox, walrus, seals, birds 
and salmon. They will, however, eat any kind of animal food, and are 
fond of fat and marrow." 

Simmond(18) says: "The choicest dish of the Greenlanders is the 
flesh of the reindeer. But as these animals have now become extremely 
scarce, they are indebted to the sea for their permanent sustenance — 
seals, fish and sea fowl. The heads and fins of the seal are preserved 
under the grass in summer, and in winter a whole seal is frequently 
buried under the snow. The flesh, half frozen, half putrid, in which state 
the Greenlanders term it mikiak, is eaten with the keenest appetite." 

Mackenzie(19) says: "The diet of the Icelanders consists almost 
solely of animal food, of which fish, either fresh or dried, forms by far 
the largest proportion. During the summer they have milk or butter in 
considerable abundance ; but of bread and every other vegetable food, there 
is the utmost scarcity. As an effect of these circumstances, cutaneous dis- 
eases are exceedingly frequent. Scurvy and leprosy are common in the 
island. Scurvy is observed to occur with the greatest frequency at those 
periods when there has been a deficiency of food among the inhabitants 
or when the snow and frost of the winter succeed immediately to a wet 
autumnal season. Eor its cure, a vegetable diet is employed, in as far as 
the circumstances of the Icelanders will allow of such means." 

Wrangell(20) writes that "the food of the Jakuts of northern Siberia 
consists of sour cow's milk and mare's milk, and of beef and horseflesh. 
They boil their meat, but never roast or bake it, and bread is unknown 



DIET EPOCHS 39 

iinioiig them. Eat is their greatest delicacy. In general, they regard 
quantity more than quality in their food. They grate the inner bark of 
the larch, or sometimes of the fir, and mix it with fish, a little meal and 
milk, or by preference with fat, and make it into a sort of broth. They 
prepare from cow's milk what is called the Jakut butter. It is more like 
a kind of cheese or curd, and has a sourish taste; it is not very rich and 
is a good article of food eaten alone." 

F. B. Head (21) says: ^'The Indians of whom I heard the most wcro 
those who inhabit the vast unknown plains of the Pampas and who pass 
their lives on horseback. In spite of the climate, which is burning hot 
in summer and freezing in winter, they have neither bread, fruit nor 
vegetables, but subsist entirely on the flesh of their mares." Head said 
of himself that when he had been riding across the Pampas for three or 
four months and had lived on beef and water, he found himself in a con- 
dition which he could only describe by saying that he felt no exertion 
could kill him (22). Eef erring to the Gauchos of the Pampas he stated : 
"These people live entirely on roast beef, with a little salt, scarcely ever 
tasting farinaceous or other vegetable food, and their sole beverage is 
mate, or Paraguay tea, without sugar." 

It is said of the Otaheite Islanders (23), "Their common diet is made 
up of at least nine-tenths of vegetable food." 

In China any kind of food is eaten, while in Japan a multiplicity of 
food is found. In all parts of the Far East, rice is the staple of diet. 

According to Johnston (24), the Abyssinians eat the flesh of animals 
raw when they desire to enjoy themselves particularly. 

Simmond(18) says that "the principal diet of the Kaflir is milk, 
which he eats rather than drinks, in a sour and curdled state. One good 
meal a day taken in the evening, consisting of the curdled milk and a 
little millet, is all that he requires, and with this he is strong, vigorous 
and robust." 

It would seem from a perusal of the observations of the travelers 
quoted above with regard to the diet of people in various climes, that no 
hard and fast rule can be laid down as to the kind of food to be eaten. 
Still in a broad way the statement may be reiterated that instinct and 
experience are generally the best guides as to the form of food best 
adapted to the individual. Animal food is mainly indicated for cold 
climates, vegetable food for the tropics, and a mixed diet for the temper- 
ate zone. Food adapted to the inhabitants is, as a rule, that which can 
be procured in the neighborhood. 



40 THE EVOLUTION OF MAWS DIET 

Seasonal Variation of Diet. — The change of seasons exerts some influ- 
ence on the diet of man. Before agriculture, domestication of animals 
and cooking came to pass, the influence thus exerted was greater. This is 
shown by the diet of the primitive races of the present day, which is al- 
most entirely regulated by the seasonal occurrence of vegetable and animal 
foods. Among civilized communities independence of and indifference 
to the seasons have been brought about by the elaborate and effective 
means which have been devised for preserving, storing, and to a less ex- 
tent for artificially producing food. 

Among modern communities an article of food is never out of season. 
Food of every description, which can be raised and brought to maturity 
in one or other part of the world, is, owing to the facilities for rapid 
transit on sea and land, and more especially to the perfection of the 
methods of preservation and storage, conveyed at any season of the year 
to the very doors of those who can afford to pay for it. All kinds of food, 
even highly perishable vegetable foods, are available at all seasons. Al- 
though this system has its advantages, unfortunately it lends itself to 
abuse. Speculators have been quick to seize upon the opportunities af- 
forded for making money at the expense of the pockets and health of the 
community. Also when food material is preserved and stored for a 
long period, the continued freezing deteriorates the quality of the food 
and this system becomes a menace to health. Animal food preserved for 
a protracted period is not nearly so nourishing as fresh meat, and when 
preserved too long may be absolutely injurious. However, preservation 
of food when properly employed is a great boon to the race. 



CHANGES IN BODILY STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION DUE TO 

EVOLUTION 

MODIFICATIONS DUE TO VARIATION OF DIET 

It is self-evident that changes in function and structure have accom- 
panied or followed evolutionary dietetic progress. The faculty of digesting 
both animal and vegetable food has varied in the periods of man's evolu- 
tionary progress. So far as animal food is concerned, this faculty waxed 
and waned in proportion to the quantity consumed during the various diet 
epochs, and was most in evidence when man depended chiefly upon animal 
food for his subsistence. 

The capacity of men of those times to digest immense quantities of 
food material may be surmised from the fact that certain peoples of the 



CHANGES DUE TO EVOLUTION 41 

present era consume and digest enormous amounts of animal food. Of 
these the Eskimos, who perhaps may be regarded as being in the same 
stage of evolution as the men of the early hunting period, are the most 
conspicuous examples. It appears certain that the capacity of the Eskimo 
to digest animal food greatly exceeds that of the ordinary civilized indi- 
vidual ; and it seems even more certain that the capacity in this direction 
of the man of the early hunting period was still greater. 

Our ancestors of the simian stage possessed the power to digest coarse 
vegetable foods to an extent unknown to the present day inhabitants of 
the earth. Like the apes, to which they were very nearly akin in those 
days, their jaws and teeth were formed to masticate cellulose, and their 
digestive organs were of a character to deal effectively with it and the 
other constituents of the vegetables, which they were compelled to eat in 
order to live. Also, and this is an important point, since cookery has 
done away with the necessity for the prolonged mastication of vegetable 
food which was naturally accompanied by excitation of the salivary 
glands, it may be taken for granted that the salivary glands of primitive 
man possessed more amylolytic power than those of neo-man, who, owing 
to the softness of his food, masticates little. The development of agricul- 
ture and the advance of cookery have had the effect of greatly diminish- 
ing the consumption of raw vegetables ; consequently the power of digest- 
ing this form of food has waned until, at the present time, very few un- 
cultivated vegetable foods are eaten raw, with the exception of a few of 
the cultivated varieties of fruits. Further modifications in the digestive 
organs were brought about by an increase in the supply of sugar and 
starch. The cultivation of sugar canes and other sugar-producing plants 
increased man's previous supply of sugar immensely, and the ability to 
extract sugar from the cane, and especially from the beet root, augmented 
it beyond conception. Long ago cookery and agriculture added to the 
quantity of starchy material available for food, and in recent years cook- 
ery has added to the supply of soluble saccharids. As always, in utilizing 
this additional food supply, man's digestive organs have become more tol- 
erant of starch and sugar. 

Natural selection has played the great part in all these adaptations. 
Those who could not adapt themselves to this kind of food were weeded 
out in infancy, and a type of the human species has been, and is being 
evolved, whose digestive organs are able to cope with very large amounts 
of starch and sugar. The great personal adaptability of man to the vari- 
ous kinds of food must be taken into consideration. Of the animals the 
frugivorous mixed feeding type is the most adaptable to diet, M&n has 



42 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

evolved from this frugivorous stage to that of the most omnivorous of 
animals, and this readiness of adaptation to almost any form of diet is a 
significant feature of his evolution. Some persons have individual idio- 
syncrasies to certain kinds of food, which are probably atavistic in char- 
acter. This hypothesis may explain, in some degree, the distaste exhib- 
ited towards animal food by numerous persons. 

MODIFICATIONS DUE TO EVOLUTION FROM AN 
ARBOREAL ANCESTOR 

Professor F. Wood Jones, in the early part of 1917, gave a series of 
lectures before the Royal College of Surgeons of England, in which he 
analyzed the various features of the human body which must be attributed 
to an arboreal lineage. All are familiar with the manner in which the 
mammalian body has been modified and adapted to changing conditions. 
Those which live in water have been closely studied, and their structural 
adaptations investigated by John Hunter, Knox, Turner, Struthers and 
others. It follows that an arboreal existence has had a profound in- 
fluence on the structure of the body, but this seems to have escaped the 
attention of, or has been neglected by, the anatomist, despite the universal 
opinion of all serious students that man is the descendant of an arboreal 
stock. 

Professor Jones emphasizes the point that the effect of this descent 
is still plainly evident in the structure of certain human limbs and organs. 
He pointed out particularly the limbs, the organs and functions of which 
will be discussed later ; but his observations and analyses were of so fasci- 
nating and instructive a character that no excuse is needed for giving 
here a condensed account of his lectures. 

The professor asked the question. Why is it that the arm and hand 
of man and of man's congeners retain so many primitive structural fea- 
tures — features which are sought for in vain in the higher order of mam- 
mals, but found paralleled in the very lowest mammals and in reptiles 
and in amphibia ? The answer is to be found in the various functional 
phases in the evolution of limbs. In the lowest land-living forms of ver- 
tebrate animals, limbs are purely propelling organs, and are incapable of 
sustained support of the body. When the limbs become capable of sus- 
tained support, as in mammals with hoofs and claws, they become pro- 
foundly altered in structure, and lose their primitive characteristics. In 
tree-living animals, however, the primitive features are retained, for in 
climbing, the limbs must still serve as propelling rather than as support- 
ing organs. 



CHANGES DUE TO EVOLUTION 43 

Professor Jones drew the following deduction, a most important point 
in the evolution of man, that the climhing stock, the primates, must have 
heen evolved at the very dawn of the mammalian type of animal, other- 
wise these primitive features of the limhs could not have heen retained. 

Stress was laid on the adaptation of the hand and foot for grasping 
purposes in climbing animals. It was shown that it was because the hand 
could grasp, that it was able to replace functions which are performed 
by the jaws and teeth of other mammals. The retrogression of the jaws, 
the crowding of the teeth, the coming forward of the eyes, and binocular 
vision, are direct results of an exchange of function from jaws to head. 
The climbing and grasping habit has led directly to the carrying and 
nursing of the young. The climbing habit brought about an alteration 
of the uterus and the production of only single offspring at a birth, for 
an actively climbing mother could not protect and carry more. 

In terrestrial mammals, smell is the dominant sense ; the brain is built 
up round the olfactory centers. In tree-climbers, scent glands disappear; 
the sense of smell loses its acuity ; the eye, the ear and touch become the 
master senses; the parts of the brain connected with these sense organs 
undergo a corresponding development; the human brain can be observed 
being built up stage by stage, as the various primate forms are traced 
towards the human end of the phylum. 

Changes in the Digestive Organs — It must always be borne in mind in 
tracing the evolution of diet that the organs of digestion in animals adapt 
themselves to the food to which they are accustomed. Hence our progeni- 
tors, preceding the early hunting period, had developed digestive organs 
which could deal with the coarse, dense, cellulose-containing vegetables 
which comprised their food. Man, in his simian stage, had organs of 
digestion, assimilation and excretion very similar to those of his im- 
mediate animal progenitors. With the introduction of meat diet as a 
result of his prowess in hunting, the organs of digestion were further 
modified to handle both animal and vegetable diet. Through the dis- 
covery of the art of cooking, man has now become omnivorous, or nearly 
so, which has resulted in a subsequent modification of the digestive system. 

The structural changes in the digestive system of evolving man, due 
to alterations and modifications of diet, are considerable. But these 
functional changes have not produced such great structural changes as 
might have been expected. 

The erect posture and gait had more to do with the alteration of the 
entire skeleton than any other cause. Standing and walking had a great 
influence upon the digestive organs, although there is a general resem- 



44 THE EVOLUTIOIsr OF MAN'S DIET 

blance between the digestive organs of man and the great apes. When 
compared with other animals, the size of man's stomach is quite extraor- 
dinarily small, and supplies the most obvious reason why his food must 
be of a concentrated character. 

In the simian period, the Liliputian dimensions of his stomach must 
have been a serious disadvantage, although it is likely that for some time 
after he had been wont to walk upright, his stomach was more capacious 
by far than in the man of today. When, however, he was a wandering 
hunter, his stomach must have been of a reasonably small size, as a large 
paunch would have greatly militated against his success in the chase. An 
early hunter with a too generous waist line would have been an anach- 
ronism. The gorilla, using all four feet to support his weight, is able to 
retain an enormous abdomen, but the upright habit of our ancestors for- 
bade this. One of the most marked anatomical differences in the digestive 
organs of man and the great apes is in the valvulce conniventes of the 
small intestine, which, in the apes, are only rudimentary. Again, a 
notable difference is that the stomach of the ape and his kin is more mus- 
cular, making it better adapted to deal with the coarse vegetable food 
which constitutes the principal part of their diet. 

Campbell suggests that it seems probable that a type of individual is 
being evolved capable of coping with an excess of soft food. At present 
a goodly part of the bowel, notably the large intestine, is rendered super- 
fluous and may be the most prominent factor in the causation of that form 
of intestinal toxemia known as intestinal stasis. Among the factors 
that bring about intestinal stasis in infancy, Sir Arbuthnot Lane includes 
unsuitable diet and too frequent feeding, which causes an abnormal dis- 
tention of the intestine. In later life, according to Lane's theory, the 
condition is produced or aggravated by the habitual assumption of the 
erect posture, which causes delay of fecal matter in reaching the large 
bowel or cesspool of the gastro-intestinal tract, or, as best described, the 
"general drainage system of the body." The resulting pressure and 
strain may produce distinct changes, and these alterations may take the 
form of evolutionary bands, which are practically without blood supply. 
There is no intention to enter into the question of intestinal stasis, but 
the matter is referred to in order to point out that Metchnikoff, Lane, 
Bainbridge, Murray, Leslie and others have considered unsuitable feed- 
ing and overfeeding when young, and the erect posture in later life, as a 
contributary cause not exactly of structural changes which are handed 
down, but mechanical changes in the alimentary tract, which produce 
disorders and diseases. 



CHANGES DUE TO EVOLUTION 45 

The Evolution of the Teeth.— In the evolution of man's diet the teeth, 
naturally, play a prominent role. The teeth of primates are shaped in 
the best and most convenient manner for dealing with the diet which 
these animals have to subsist upon. In the early days, the teeth of man 
were stronger and lasted much longer because the vegetable food, which 
was the staple of diet, needed abundant chewing and thus kept the teeth 
in exercise. Atrophy of the alveolar process was then probably unknown. 
Before dealing with the degeneration of the teeth of man, it may be well 
to compare them with the teeth of very early man and of some other 
primates. 

If the mature gorilla skull is compared with that of an adult human 
being, two differences are especially marked. The forward projection of 
the face is enormously massive in the adult male gorilla, the lower jaw 
is heavy and the molar teeth are very large, adapted for coarser and 
more vigorous work than those of man. When man stood erect and when 
the teeth ceased to be used for aggressive purposes or as prehensile organs, 
the skull began to change in shape, and the greatest effect of these changes 
was manifested in the jawbone (inferior maxilla). After a time, man 
commenced to develop a chin. At first, as in the Ice Age, the chin was 
very small, the jawbone massive and the teeth very large. Just after the 
Ice Age, another race is found with a magnificent chin, but the jawbone 
is still massive and teeth large. So long as man had to break up the cellu- 
lose framework of his vegetable food by his teeth, it followed as a matter 
of course, that his teeth must be massive and strong. 

The human canine tooth is nearest to the earliest type of tooth. "Our 
incisors," according to Scott Elliott, ''do not differ to any great extent 
from very early forms. The premolars and molars exhibit the re- 
mains of the primitive three-peaked arrangement. The first simple cone- 
like tooth developed two or three cones or peaks, two on the outside in 
the upper, and two on the inside in the lower jaw. The resulting tri- 
angles of three peaks gave the teeth the exact shape required for a perfect 
shear and were most admirably adapted to tear flesh from the bones or to 
crush the beetles and grasshoppers, which were a part of the diet of all 
the early primates. The carnivora still preserve this trituberculate type 
because they still have need of adequate means for tearing flesh from 
bones, but the primates below man and man himself evolved crushing 
teeth, and consequently the basal part of the tooth, the plane, out of which 
the peaks rose, expanded into cusps. Even the Eocene lemurs, such as 
Miacis, show this development." Chimpanzees and other apes have five 
and even six cusps, and when man ate the same coarse vegetable food with 



46 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

a large cellulose content as these apes, he, too, had the same number of 
cusps. Indeed, the fifth cusp is still present in Tasmanian and Negro 
teeth, but has disappeared in modern Parisians and in many persons 
whose ancestors have been accustomed for generations to eat cooked food 
which required little or no mastication. 

It is a law of nature that any organ of the body which is not used, 
atrophies and finally disappears, and this law is well exemplified in the 
evolution of the teeth of man. The teeth of certain primeval men, as 
shown by their skeletons, resemble those of some existing primitive races 
in that they are large and much worn and exhibit signs of laborious 
mastication. While the evolution of diet may have been to man's benefit 
or may have added to his comfort and pleasure, it is certain that his teeth 
have not been improved. The evolution of his teeth has been a deteriora- 
tion. A writer has referred to the romance of the teeth; a more apt ex- 
pression would have been the tragedy of the teeth, for with the invention 
of the cooking pot, degeneration set in, and the evolution of the teeth 
proceeded in conformity with the nature of the task required of them. 

Before the introduction of cookery, total absence of teeth was almost 
unknown, for most vegetable food in the raw state required strenuous 
mastication; hence man rarely, if ever, was toothless. His teeth were 
ground down to the very gums by long and vigorous chewing of thick 
and coarse vegetable substances. 

With the advent of cookery all this was changed. Man was no longer 
so entirely dependent upon the soundness and sharpness of his teeth nor 
upon the strength of his jawbone, because cooking rendered the hard, in- 
digestible cellulose fibers of some kinds of vegetable food soft and pliable, 
so that but a small amount of work was placed upon the teeth. Cookery, 
to use a somewhat vulgar expression, "cut both ways." It had its great 
advantages and countervailing drawbacks. By primitive agriculture the 
supply of soft vegetable food was increased to an almost unlimited extent, 
and cooking rendered it yet softer. But although these two agencies com- 
bined, made man less dependent on his teeth, at the same time, through 
disuse or insufficient use, they indirectly brought about a change in the 
form of the jaw and teeth, with a tendency in the latter to decay. 

As agriculture progressed, further reducing the cellulose constituents 
of vegetable food, and grinding and other artificial means for performing 
this service came into common use, chewing was in some measure no 
longer the chief function of the jaws and teeth. Accordingly, these grew 
smaller, altered considerably in type, and the teeth frequently decayed. 

The condition of the jaw and teeth did not reach their acme of de- 



CHANGES DUE TO EVOLUTION 47 

terioration until the neo-agricultural period was far advanced — that is, 
until the present time. Nowadays, because food is so soft, mastication is 
to a great extent unnecessary ; consequently the teeth are growing smaller 
and weaker. The third molar is '^practically always degenerate," and 
not infrequently absent. The jaw, also, does not grow to its pristine or 
even to what may be termed its normal size. In fact, the teeth which have 
diminished in size cannot find room in the diminutive jaw to take up 
their natural anatomical positions. This deterioration, accompanied by a 
tendency to decay, has of recent years gone on apace. 

Dietary dental diseases are now extremely prevalent among the most 
civilized or among those living under the most highly civilized condi- 
tions, as is also dyspepsia, largely due to improper mastication. Nowhere 
is so much soft pap food eaten and consequently so little mastication 
and insalivation required as in America. In fact, cereals and many 
other foods in this country are offered for sale partially predigested; 
they neither give the teeth work, nor do they excite the salivary 
glands or the digestive functions to activity. May not this be a chief 
reason for the prevalence of digestive troubles and for the dental caries, 
pyorrhea alveolaris and other diseases of the teeth among Americans? 
It is true that the teeth of Americans compare favorably with those of 
the inhabitants of other countries, but this is due to art and not to nature. 
The American dentist is the most ingenious and, on the whole, the most 
efficient in the world. But his numbers, his skill and his prosperity all 
show that his services are continually in demand, and that he has gained 
his proficiency chiefly because he has been given every opportunity to 
keep in constant practice. Moreover, since the conditions which are 
bringing about the degeneration and deterioration of the teeth and the 
subsequent disorders of the digestive system are growing steadily more 
prevalent, the future in this respect is threatening. 

SUMMARY OF THE EVOLUTION OF THE TEETH AND DIGESTIVE 
SYSTEM.— The situation may be summed up as follows: The teeth of the 
primates closest to man, and of very early man himself, were sounder 
than at the present time because they were kept in constant use. With 
the coming of agriculture and cookery, the teeth lost a good deal of their 
importance. Before this time they were absolutely essential to life ; after 
this period, although it might be extremely inconvenient and prejudicial 
to a good state of health to be without teeth, they were not absolutely 
essential. As time went on, teeth lost more and more of their importance 
as a means of sustaining life until, at the present time, food is so pre- 
pared and cooked that the teeth are not called upon to exert any strenuous 



48 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

action. Grinding mastication is unknown. Generally speaking, our food, 
including meat, is soft; consequently the teeth tend to decay, from lack 
of exercise and from other causes, at an early age. Therefore, it is true 
that although we have gained much by agriculture and cookery, we have 
lost much. 

We now eat a large amount of food which is not good for us, simply 
because it is agreeable and can be eaten without mastication; we eat too 
much food and a considerable quantity of unsuitable food. Our teeth go, 
and we suffer from indigestion, especially from that form known as in- 
testinal stasis. No kind of food predisposes to and causes intestinal stasis 
to such an extent as soft, partially digested, unmasticated food. The out- 
standing features of the existing dietary is the concentration of diet, and 
the soft forms of food ingested. These lead to constipation and indiges- 
tion, the curse, it may almost be said, of modern life and especially of 
life in cities. Overeating is also encouraged. Moreover, if this sort of 
soft diet is indulged in for any length of time, the digestive organs de- 
teriorate like the teeth from lack of use, and a thoroughly vicious circle is 
established. 

Changes in the Mammary Function Due to the Artificial Feeding of Chil- 
dren. — The artificial feeding of children will be mentioned here, but as 
the subject of bringing up infants on the bottle is adequately considered 
in Volume HI/ it will be superfluous to dwell on the matter at length. 
In the precibicultural period, and among precibiculturists now extant, the 
theory of the survival of the fittest is an actuality. In former times, if a 
mother could not suckle her child, it was inevitably doomed to death. 
If a mother died during childbirth, the infant was deliberately destroyed. 
Consequently, by the elimination of those unfit to bring up children, the 
women remaining were in every respect admirably adapted for the pur- 
pose. After the domestication of lactating animals, mothers who for one 
cause or another were unable to nurse their childreif could rear them by 
artificial feeding. A beginning was thus made of the lowering of the 
standard of mammary function, which has now approached a serious con- 
dition. The civilized woman of the present day is less well equipped by far 
than her primitive sister, so far as her maternal functions are concerned. 

A distaste to or even aversion to the nursing of children is also becom- 
ing more and more evident among ail classes of society. In view of these 
facts it appears within the bounds of reason to foresee a time when the 
mammary function will atrophy and the majority of women will be 
physically incapable of feeding their progeny at the breast. 

1 Chapter XXV. 



GENERAL SUMMARY 49 

GENERAL SUMMARY 

The chief fact taught by an investigation of man's dietetic past is 
that food has been a most important factor in the evolution of man. 
Three events mark the dietary influence on this evolution— the discovery 
of cooking, the advent of the agricultural era, and the domestication of 
animals. All of these innovations, by profoundly influencing the diet of 
man, have changed his manner of life in all respects. In fact, food 
brought about the ascent of man to a certain level upon which his present 
lofty position has been built. 

While civilization, based upon the results of cookery and cultivation, 
has been a blessing to mankind, it has not been an unmixed blessing re- 
garded from the standpoint of health. In early times, the food of our 
ancestors was such that much of it required vigorous mastication, with 
the consequence that little starch was taken into the stomach in a crude 
form. At the present time, the reverse is the case; a very large amount 
of practically pure starch is ingested, and owing to its soft consistency and 
the consequent lack of mastication and insalivation, slips down into the 
stomach in a state totally unprepared for digestion, giving rise to various 
disorders and to malnutrition. This condition is particularly true in the 
case of infants. The supply of sugar has also increased and is eaten to 
an inordinate extent. This, taken in connection with the augmented con- 
sumption of vegetable food, gives rise to the conclusion that the present 
generation is liJcely to suffer from the undue consumption of both' starch 
and sugar. 

No dogmatic statement can be made as to the relative values of animal 
and vegetable food as articles of diet. Since men have lived in good 
health as vegetarians or nearly vegetarians, and also solely upon meat, 
these examples do not prove the point. Climate has a great influence on 
the nature of a diet ; occupation is a factor that must be considered, and 
heredity is not a wholly negligible quantity. In a general way, it may 
be said that animal food appeases hunger more thoroughly than a vege- 
table diet, and satisfies it for a longer time. It gives more stay to the 
stomach and has a more stimulating eifect upon the system generally. 
In spite of the fact that man is descended from the ape, and that the ape 
is more frugivorous by far than carnivorous, the fact remains that the 
small size of man's stomach, due possibly to his erect posture, demands 
a concentrated diet, and this diet would seem to be best supplied by meat. 
Cookery affects the relative values of animal and vegetable foods in oppo- 



50 THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 

site ways, with regard to mastication. Cooking coagulates the albumen 
of animal tissues, hardening it so that mastication may be necessary; 
cooking of vegetables does away with the need for mastication. It cannot 
even be argued that either animal or vegetable food is the natural diet of 
man, for while his ape ancestors did not eat much flesh, at one time of 
his early career as a human, man was more carnivorous than frugivorous. 
Tlie present conformation of his jaws and teeth, the result of an evolu- 
tionary process, does not single him out as especially adapted for a vege- 
table or an animal diet. Whatever primitive man may have been con- 
sidered from the dietetic standpoint, he is now a mixed feeder in tem- 
perate climates. Descending from ancestors whose diet for long ages has 
varied in the temperate zone, man would naturally find a varied diet best 
suited to his needs and to his taste. His anatomical history also shows 
that his digestive system is highly adaptable to these variations, and is 
capable of being modified to almost any extent. 

His adaptability aifords an explanation of why he has fallen into the 
routine of the existing civilized mode of diet. Eating food of soft con- 
sistency, which is the universal habit, has had and is having an injurious 
effect upon his jaws and teeth, upon his salivary secretions, and upon his 
digestive system. He should revert to some extent to the food of his 
simian ancestors — raw vegetables and fruit — which w^ould afford plenty 
of exercise to his masticatory, salivary and digestive organs. A sim- 
ple diet is in the main the ideal one. If he continues to eat soft, 
cooked foods — and it does not seem very likely that he will not — then in 
the course of time it may be expected that a type of person will be evolved 
capable of dealing with the quantity and kind of food which our ultra 
refined civilization has decreed that we shall consume. 

Perhaps it is possible that we have come to the end of our progress 
in the direction of diet, and that the human race will be the better for 
going back to the simple diet of our ancestors. It must be borne in mind 
that extreme luxury in diet has been noted more than once in the history 
of the world — with the Persians and Romans, for example. Afterwards 
a period of comparative simplicity has ensued, until a climax has been 
again reached. 

The acme of dietary excellence was attained not long after the age of 
agriculture, cooking, and domestication of animals came in. Since then 
the increase of population, industrialism and other concomitants of ad- 
vanced civilization have made further dietetic changes necessary. At the 
present time, the situation must be met in the best ways possible. The 
chief object of this chapter has been to point out and lay stress upon the 



GENERAL SUMMARY 51 

fact that man's evolution has heen greatly dependent upon the evohition 
of his diet, and it is to be hoped that this object has been fairly well at- 
tained. 

REFERENCES 

1. Campbell, Harry. Sutherland's System of Diet. 

2. Scott Elliott. Prehistoric Man. 

3. Holmes. Convolution of Animal Intelligence. 

4. Skeat and Blagden. Pagan Races of the Malay Peninsula. 

5. TozER. History and Geography. 

6. Constantin and Bois. Rev. Gen. Bot. 

7. Brusttoi^. Myths of the New World, 1868. 

8. Du Pratz. Hist. La., 1763. 

9. Bancroft. Nat. Rac, 1882. 

10. Hodge. Am. Anthrop., 1893. 

11. Bradford. Hist. Plym. Plant., Mass. Hist. Soc. Coll., 1856. 

12. EiscHER. Arch. f. Anthrop., 1909. 

13. Popular Science Monthly. April, 1898. 

14. Babcock. Historical Notes on Alcohol. 

15. Pellew, Dr. C. E. Appleton's Popular Science Monthly, June 

and July, 1893. 

16. Rice, Chas. Dining and Its Amenities. 

17. Lubbock. Pre-Historic Times, 1869. 

18. SiMMOND. Curiosities of Eood, 1859. 

19. Mackenzie. Travels in Iceland, 1811. 

20. Wrangell. Expedition to the Polar Sea, 1844. 

21. Head, F. B. Journeys Across the Pampas, 1828. 

22. Head. Odontological Society's Transactions, ii. New Series. 

23. Cook. First Voyage. Hawkesworth's Voyages, Vol. ii. 

24. Johnston. Travels in Abyssinia, 1844. 



CHAPTER II 

CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 

CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BODY AND OF FOOD 

Chemical Elements in the Human Body. 

Organic Compounds: Fats, Carbohydrates, Proteins, Albumins; Proxi- 
mate Principles. 

Inorganic Compounds: Water, Acids, Salts. 

Scientific Classification of Foods: Nitrogenous, Non-nitrogenous. 

Tests to Determine Food Value: Chemical, Physical, Physiological, 
Economic. 

Of the eighty-three elements known to the chemist but twenty are 
found in the body. They are: carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, sul- 
phur, phosphorus, fluorin, chlorin, iodin, silicon, sodium, potassium, cal- 
cium, ammonium, magnesium, lithium, iron and occasionally manganese, 
copper and lead. These elements are rarely found in the pure state, 
being present in the form of chemical compounds which, as they occur in 
the structure of the various tissues, are very complex in arrangement. 
These compounds are comparatively unstable, and are readily converted 
in the body, or changed into other forms, which may be easily shown by 
chemical analysis. 

The elements of both animal and vegetable foods are derived from 
the earth, air and water. We know that animal life could not subsist 
upon inorganic substances nor derive nutriment from them alone, not- 
withstanding the great importance ascribed to the inorganic materials 
for the vital processes of the human body. 

Other combinations of chemical derivatives are also required, which 
come under the head of plant and animal life, and are known as organic 
substances. All food is composed of many combinations of these simpler 
chemical elements, which, for the most part, must be subjected to altera- 
tions in the body itself by digestion, before they are ready for assimilation 
by the tissues. ISTutrition of the body, therefore, involves several distinct 
metabolic processes, viz. : 

I. The secretion of digestive fluids and their physiological action 
upon food in the alimentary tract. 

II. The absorption of .food ingredients when digested into the lym- 
phatic and circulatory systems. 

53 



54 CHEMISTKY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTIOiY 

III. The assimilation of the absorbed nutrition products by the 
tissues. 

IV. The elimination of the waste material. 

Elements and Their Compounds. — The analysis given below will show 
the relative predominance of the elements of which the human body is 
composed. 

Elementary Composition of the Human Body 

Height, 5 feet 8 inches Weight, 148 pounds 

Per cent Pounds 

Oxygen 62432 92.4 

Hydrogen 09864 14.6 

Carbon 21351 31.6 

Nitrogen 03108 4.6 

Phosphorus 00945 1.4 

Calcium 01891 2.8 

Sulphur 00162 .24 

Chlorin 00081 .12 

Sodium 00081 .12 

Iron 00031 .02 

Potassium 00229 .34 

Magnesium 00027 .27 

Fluorin 00013 .02 

Silicon trace 

lodin 

Ammonium " 

Lithium " 

JNIanganese " 

Copper " 

Lead " 

Total 1.00197 148.30 

All these elements are derived from the food plus the oxygen, either 
inhaled from the air or liberated within the body as a molecule of oxygen, 
when food particles are broken down. 

Oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon are the three principal elements of the 
human body (as well as in all our foodstuffs), being the great force 
producers of the body, and at the same time the tissue builders. 

E^itrogen, when present, is capable of acting in a dual capacity; it 
either accommodates itself to the process of cell and tissue formation, or 
is broken down from the completed molecule and thrown off when mus- 
cular energy is manifested or when cellular disintegration occurs. 

Foodstuffs, to play an important part in tissue production, and at the 
same time stimulate bone formation, must contain sulphur, phosphorus, 
iron, sodium, potassium, and calcium phosphate. If these elements and 
compounds are deficient in the food of a growing infant, softening of 
the bones will follow. Bone cells contain 50 per cent calcium phosphate, 
and this element is absolutely necessary for normal osseous development. 

Food without iron salts will cause a change of the hemoglobin content of 



CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BODY 



55 



the red blood cells and a diminished oxidation, resulting in anemia. The 
potash salts, especially potassium carbonate and chlorid, if absent or 
found in insufficient quantities, lead to scurvy — which condition is 
aggravated by the use of conmion table salt, sodium chlorid. A diet of 
salt meat and bread, excluding potatoes, fresh fruit, and vegetables, will 
j)roduce scurvy. 

Sodium chlorid is an important constituent directly concerned in nu- 
trition. Its absence interferes with many of the functions of the body, 
such as absorption, and materially alters the density and reactions of the 
different fluids. 

PROXIMATE PRINCIPLES.— Chemical elements are rarely found in a 
pure state, but are present in diverse combinations, or, as they are some- 
times termed, ^^proximate principles," which may be divided into the fol- 
lowing groups: (1) mineral, or inorganic compounds; (2) organic com- 
pounds, or compounds of carbon. The organic compounds may again be 
divided very conveniently into two groups: the nitrogenous and non- 
nitrogenous compounds. The inorganic compounds, comprise water and 
the various acids ; for example, the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice 
and numerous salts. 

Since the same elements in varying proportions are to be found in 
both foodstuffs and the human body, the various compounds of these ele- 
ments may be termed ^^proximate principles." As pointed out by physi- 
ologists, "proximate principles" are chemical compounds of which the 
body is composed and into which it is theoretically, but not analytically, 
separable without chemical change. They may be classified as follows : 



Organic 



Nitrogenous 



Non -nitrogenous 



r Protein 

\ Albuminoids 



Carbohydrates 



Fats and Oils 



Organic Modified by Inorganic Combination 



r CHON Protein 
CHONSP Protein 
Purin compounds 

fPolysaccharids 
Disaccharids 
Monosaccharids 

fOleate of glycerol 
Palmitate of glycerol 
Stearate of glycerol 

{Hemoglobin 
Lecithin 
lodothyrin 



Inorganic 



Water 



Salts 



Ammonium 

Calcium 

Magnesium 

Potassium 

Sodium 



NaCl, KCL 

NajCO,, MgCO, 

Na2S04, K2SO4, MgS04 

NajHPO*, K,HP04, MgHPO^, CaHPO* 

Na, K, Ca, etc., combined with fruit acids (tar- 
taric, citric, malic, etc.) 

Fe combined with animal products (hemoglobin) 
and with vegetable compuuuds (chlorophyl) 



56 CHEMISTEY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 

All of these elements are present, yet all are not of equal importance, 
nor do they occur in the same proportions. Among the inorganic group, 
water and the salts are preeminent. Among the organic group, protein, 
fats and carbohydrates are most numerous. 

Inorganic compounds act medicinally and aid in the formation of 
inorganic constituents of bone, and in osmoses. Oxygen is regularly in- 
troduced into the body in large amounts both as an essential constituent 
of organic foods and as an element by respiration. In the latter form, 
probably by the assistance of enzymes, it oxidizes all forms of organic 
components of the body, acting, as a rule, destructively rather than con- 
structively. Most of the other elements (excluding corrosive action) 
might be administered in the elemental state, and would sooner or later 
form inorganic or organic combinations while in the alimentary tract. 
We know that iron in its elemental form can be assimilated as such, 
though not as readily as from organic compounds. In most instances, all 
the elements give better physiological results when administered as salts 
or as organic compounds. 

Scientific Food Classification. — Of the chemical classification of foods 
the one advocated by Baron von Liebig is the simplest and best. He was 
the first to suggest a real scientific division, viz. : (a) Nitrogenous, (b) 
Non-nitrogenous. 

"Each of these classes contains food materials derived from both the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms, although the majority of the animal sub- 
stances belong to the nitrogenous, and the majority of vegetable sub- 
stances to the non-nitrogenous group. 

(a) von Liebig regarded the nitrogenous group as containing 
plastic elements — i.e., they are essentially tissue builders or flesh form- 
ers. Nitrogenous foods are sometimes called azotized foods or albumi- 
noids — that is, substances resembling albumin. They consist chiefly 
of the four elements, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen, to which 
a small proportion of sulphur and phosphorus is usually joined. The pro- 
teins and their immediate derivatives constitute practically all of the nitro- 
genous material involved in the processes of nutrition. They are ferment- 
able, and under some conditions will putrefy. This group comprises all 
forms of animal food, except fats and glycogen. It includes, therefore, 
albumins and gelatins. Its chief representatives are milk, eggs, crusta- 
ceans, fish, flesh and fowl. It also contains such nitrogenous substances 
as occur in the vegetable kingdom, or vegetable albuminoids. 

(b) The second or non-nitrogenous group von Liebig called respiror 
tory or calorifacient foods, because their function in the body is to 



CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BODY 57 

furnish fuel or maintain animal licat. Since this original classification 
was suggested, it has been established that the non-nitrogenous elements 
supply energy as force, manifested through muscular action ; hence they 
are also called force producers, in distinction from the nitrogenous tis- 
site f<)rm('rs.''\l) 

The non-nitrogenous group contains only the three elements, oxygen, 
hydrogen and carbon, together with various salts found in both animal 
and vegetable foods. This group comprises all varieties of vegetables, 
fruits, cereals, starches, sugars and gums, the fats and oils, which are de- 
rived both from the animal and vegetable kingdom, and organic acids. 
!Meat, vegetables, and the starch molecules of cereals contain a certain 
proportion of nitrogenous material which is chiefly found as an outside 
envelope for protection, affording firmness of resistance to the softer pulp 
within. This material contains "vitamins," essential for the mainte- 
nance of health. 

Animal food is not strictly nitrogenous because of the fact that it 
contains fat and glycogen, while on the other hand, vegetable food is not 
absolutely non-nitrogenous since it contains albuminoids and other forms 
of protein. Yet this classification is a very convenient and simple one, 
and its general acceptance has met the approval of most writers on chem- 
ical and physiological subjects. 

It is therefore permissible to classify the nutritive constituents of 
food, in accordance with their functions in the body as follows: 

TISSUE FORMERS WORK AND HEAT PRODUCERS 

Protein Protein 

Mineral matter Albuminoids 

Waters Carbohydrates 

Fats 

Mineral matter 
Water 

This is a convenient distinction to adopt, but it will be observed that 
proteins are able to fulfill both functions of a food, as force producers 
and heat givers. "It is this physiological omnipotence which gives to pro- 
teins their vast importance in the diet, and justifies the proud title of 'pre- 
eminence,' which the name implies. Without protein, life is impossible, 
since the breaking down of tissues must be replaced. With protein plus 
water, and the mineral salts, life can be healthily maintained for a long 
period of time, as is proven by the experience of savage tribes, Indians 



58 CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 



of the Pampas, wlio live year in and year out on practically nothing but 
lean meat and water." (2) 

Tests of Food Value.— Such being the use of foods. in the body, the 

question arises: how is one to judge of their relative value? By what 

precedent or authority is one to decide whether any special article of 

diet is good for food or contains food value ? The answer is to be given 

only after submitting the food under consideration to the following tests : 

I. Chemical. — What percentage of each nutritive constituent does 

the food contain? 

11. Physical. — How much potential energy is it capable of yielding ? 

III. Physiological. — How does it behave in the stomach and intes- 

tines ? Is it easily digested and to what extent absorbed ? 

IV, Economic. — Are the nutritive constituents which the food con- 

tains obtained at a reasonable cost? (See Fig. 4, page 59.) 
THE CHEMICAL TEST. — Chemical analysis reveals the quantity of each 
nutritive constituent (protein, fat, carbohydrate) in one hundred parts of 
foodstuffs. From this information we can arrive at a conclusion as to the 
exact value of a food as a source of building material or energy. In sub- 
sequent chapters the percentage composition of all the chief articles of 
food will be recorded in detail. 

THE PHYSICAL TEST.— Lavoisier was the first to demonstrate the pre- 
cise changes which food underwent in the body. He proved that the 
changes were essentially due to oxidation resulting from the combustion 
of certain foodstuffs. This combustion may be taken as a measure to de- 
termine the value of a certain food as a source of energy for heat and 
work, which are convertible terms. The question may arise in the minds 
of some as to whether these results, which may hold good for laboratory 
experiments, are equally true for combustion in the body. "This suspi- 
cion is strengthened when one remembers that many of the waste products 
of metabolism, such as urea, are by no means completely oxidized. The 
body does not reduce all its fuel to ashes; some of it is only charred." (3) 
Rubner and other careful observers have shown conclusively that if allow- 
ance is made for these incompletely oxidized products, combustion, that 
is, the amount of energy liberated within the body, is precisely the same 
as the equivalent laboratory experiments. 
One gram of Carbohydrates oxidized in the body yields 4.1 Calories 



(( 


u 


a 


Protein 


a 


u 


u 


i( 


u 


4.9 


a 


(( 


a 


(( 


Fats 


u 


u 


u 


a 


a 


9.3 


{< 


a 


u 


cc 


Alcohol 


i( 


u 


a 


u 


<( 


Y.l 


a 


a 


(( 


a 


Gelatin 


a 


u 


i( 


a 


u 


4.1 


u 



CHEMIOAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BODY 



59 



PRorsiN. 



rjtr. 



C/tRBO»yDRAT£S. 



FUEL \C4Ll/£ 



FOODAMTER/^L 



PP/CE 
PER 

potm 



WNOLEMlLK 

m C ENTS PER or 



WHOLE M/LK 
8 CENTS PER Or. 



kf//¥OLE M/LH ^ 

y CENTS PEP or. 



WHOLEM/LK ^ 
6 CENTS PEP Or. 



WHOLE MILK ^ 
S CENTS PER Or. 



6K/M M/LK ^ 

3 CENTS PER Or. 



SK/MM/LK ^ 
2. CENTS PER OT. 



TEN 
\CEAf7S 

mu 

BUY 



Crs.lBS. 



poums OF/vc/r/?/£/vrs/fw Cj4io/?/£S 

//V TEN C£A/rS 'tVOHTH 



~2dd0Cai. 



_ 2 /6s. _ 37Ss~_ 

4000 Ca/7~60O0 Ca/. 




BUTTER 



CHEESE 



BEEF, POUHD 



BEEF, S/RLO//S/ 



MUTTON, LEG 



PORK, LO/N 



PORK, SALT, E4T 



HAM, SMOKED 



CODF/SH, ^5f I5j 



DRESSED 



CODF/SH, SALTED 



OYSTERS 
35 CENTS PER QU/tRT 



EGGS 

24- CENTS PER DOZEN 



WHEATFLOUR 



CORN MEAL 



OAT MEAL 



BEANS,WH/TE,DR/ED 



R/CE 



POTATOES 

€0 CENTS PER BUSHEL 



SUGAR 



YiQ. 4. — Chart Illustrating the Pecuniary Economy of Various Meats, Milk 
AND Other Foods. (Amount of actual nutrients, obtained in different foods for 
an outlay of 10 cents at certain assumed prices per pound.) (Farmers* Bulletin 
363, U. S. Department of Agriculture.) 



60 CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 

These figures represent the average calorie of the nutritive constituents as 
contained in an ordinary mixed diet, and often allowance has been made 
for the defective absorption and for the excretion of imperfectly oxidized 
residues by the kidney. They may therefore be accepted as an indication 
of the true worth to the body of the different nutrient constituents as 
sources of potential energy required for the normal individual. 

THE PHYSIOLOGICAL TEST.— This test alone is not sufficient to deter- 
mine a wholesome food, which not only should contain a considerable pro- 
portion of protein, fat and carbohydrate, but should be capable of yield- 
ing energy on oxidation and at the same time be of such nature as to be 
readily digested in the stomach and easily assimilated. Such substances 
as sawdust, petroleum or cattle-hoof parings might pass the chemical and 
physical tests and still be useless as a food, because they cannot be di- 
gested or absorbed. For these reasons the digestibility of food in the 
stomach and intestines must be taken into consideration before venturing 
an opinion as to its value in a diet. 

THE ECONOMIC TEST.— Having determined the richness of a food in 
nutritive derivatives, the amount of energy which it is capable of yield- 
ing, and the readiness with which it can be digested, assimilated and ab- 
sorbed, there is still an important question to determine — whether the 
nutriment which it yields is obtained at a reasonable cost. For this an 
economic test is required, which is furnished by applying a knowledge of 
the caloric method, to determine how much energy (in calories) and how 
much building material (in protein) one can procure for a particular 
sum, when invested in the food under consideration. 

The question of the "high cost of living'' has become one of momentous 
importance in this country during the past decade ; therefore the economic 
value of foods is of special importance to the student, physician and dieti- 
tian. Often it is necessary to see that the diet of a patient is enriched 
in special directions, most commonly, perhaps, in fat or protein. It is 
useless to recommend to a poor man chicken, duck and cream, which he 
cannot afford to buy. It is worth while, however, to know that these ele- 
ments can be furnished economically by buying the cheaper grades of 
foods, such as skim milk, fish, cheese, beans, peas and the cheaper cuts 
of meat, since these furnish the desired quantity of protein. Economical 
forms of fat may be had in margarine and pork drippings, which are 
Avithin the reach of all. 

It must be remembered that the cost of living takes about 50 per cent 
of a laborer's wages, and that the poorer a man is the greater is his pro- 
portionate expenditure for food. 



CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BODY 61 

Another point which concerns the economy of food values is the waste 
and cost of cooking. Of avoidable waste there is no need of complaint ; 
but of unavoidable waste there is room for discussion. Much of the food 
"as purchased" (see Chapter XIX, Food Analysis) is not in edible form, 
such as the skin and skeleton of fish, the bone of meat and some parts of 
green vegetables. In the ordinary cuts of butchers' meats, the waste is 
safely calculated at 15 per cent; in fish the waste may be as high as TO 
per cent, which must be taken into account in buying food. The cost of 
cookery is an economic question exceedingly difficult to estimate (see 
Volume II, Chapter I), as this question depends upon the cook. The gen- 
eral value of the results will be seriously impaired by careless handling. 

It will be observed that it is by no means an easy matter to pronounce 
an opinion as to the caloric value of a food or arrive at an intelligent con- 
clusion offhand in estimating its fuel value. Each test must be applied 
in turn, as it is only upon the foods which stand a satisfactory scrutiny 
of all tests, that a favorable opinion can be rendered. In other words, 
a food is only to be adjudged good when it contains an ample proportion 
of nutritive material readily digested, easily assimilated, and rapidly 
absorbed, at a reasonable cost. 

REFEEENCES 

1. Thompson. Practical Dietetics, p. 5. 

2. Hutchinson. Food and Dietetics, 1907, p. 6, 

3. . Ibid., p. 8. 



CHAPTER III 



CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROXIMATE 
PRINCIPLES OF FOOD 



E. E. Smith, Ph.D., M.D. 



Vitamines; Hormones; Enzymes. 

Proteins: Protein Amino-acids; Simple Proteins — Albumins, Globulins, 
etc.; Conjugated Proteins — Chromoproteins, Glycoproteins, etc.; De- 
rived Proteins — Proteins, Metaproteins, Coagulated Proteins, Peptones, 
Peptids, etc.; Nuclein and Purin Bases. 

Carbohydrates: Monosaccharids — Pentoses, Dextrose, Levulose or Fruit 
Sugar, etc.; Disaccharids — Saccharose, Maltose, Lactose; Trisac- 
charids — Melitose, etc.; Tetrasaccharids — Stachyose, etc.; Polysac- 
charids — Starch, Dextrin, Glycogen, Cellulose, etc. 

Hydrocarbons: Terpenes; Alcohols — Glycerol; Aldehyds; Acids — Organic; 
Esters — Volatile Esters, Oils, Fats, Waxes, Phospho-esters, etc. 

Pigments. 

Inorganic Salts. 

Water. 



In Chapter II we studied the chemical elements of the body and of 
foods. We learned that all material things of the universe are composed 
of eighty more or less simple elements, namely, substances incapable of 
being divided into different or simpler substances. They exist in innu- 
merable combinations, as compound substances, or compounds as we call 
them, that make up all known material things. We learned that the body 
and foods are thus made up of definite chemical units, so that the ultimate 
composition is expressed in terms of the simple elements — carbon, hydro- 
gen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, etc. In animals and vege- 
tables these elements exist combined to form chemical compounds — e.g., 
albumin, gelatin, fat, sugar, starch — these are termed proximate princi- 
ples. Generally, several of these exist together, making up the compli- 
cated materials of a simple structure, though there may be storage of 
particular proximate principles, as of albumin in white of egg or starch in 

63 



64 PROXIMATE PEINCIPLES OF FOODSTUFFS 

particular proximate principles, as of albumin in white of egg, starch in 
seeds. The proximate composition is the composition expressed in terms 
of such proximate principles, which for convenience are arranged in Rye 
groups, the "five food principles" ; 

Proteins Inorganic Salts 

Carbohydrates Water 

Hydrocarbons 
In addition we have accessory food constituents: 

Vitamines Lipoids 

In the vegetable kingdom proximate principles are built up from the 
elements or from simple compounds. To the animal body they are sup- 
plied as food. Hence, in order that the nutrition of the body may pro- 
ceed normally, the food should contain these principles in certain quan- 
tities and proportions. A proper diet for man is one containing proxi- 
mate principles of certain kinds and in certain proportions, the value 
depending not alone upon essential constituents, but also upon various 
accessory principles that combine to make the food fully adapted to the 
needs of the body. 

Vitamines. — Besides the classical "Five Food Principles" just enu- 
merated, mention must be made of certain substances of unknown nature 
termed "vitamines/' that are essential to body nourishment. The quali- 
ties of food are in many ways determined by the nature of the known 
carbohydrates, the proteins, the fats and the mineral salts. These proxi- 
mate principles play an important part in supplying energy and repair- 
ing tissue waste, furnishing the materials for construction and use of the 
body. Yet the vitamines, occurring apparently in very small quantities, 
are also of vital importance. While as yet opinion is not unanimous in 
regard to their nature, it seems probable that they contain basic nitrogen, 
and that they are of such importance that their absence produces certain 
diseases aptly called deficiency diseases. 

Among these is beri-beri, a nervous affection supposedly caused by a 
diet composed largely or exclusively of rice from which the bran has been 
removed by polishing, thus depriving the rice of its vitamines. Likewise 
pellagra, a disturbance of the peripheral and central nervous system, oc- 
curring generally among those partaking largely of maize and having a 
very restricted diet, may point to vitamine deficiency, although this view 
was not entirely borne out by the findings of the Pellagra Commission, 
1914. Again, scurvy, a disease of malnutrition which may be cured by 
a diet of anti-scorbutic foods, such as limes, lemons and oranges, may 
prove to be caused by vitamine deficiency. 



PROTEINS 65 

Vitamines, or other substances the nature of which is quite obscure, 
seem likewise essential to growth and maintenance of normal nutrition. 
Aiiiinals may be maintained for a very considerable length of time on 
chemical mixtures of the ''live principles/' but eventually these unknown 
substances contained in milk fat, and in certain other foods, become nec- 
essary or normal nourishment and growth cease. However, it is possible 
and even probable that these unknown substances differ from the true 
vitamines, the absence of which causes the deficiency diseases. 

Hormones. — Mention should be made of '^hormones" (see Chapter 
VI), substances of physiological rather than food interest, since they are 
formed and exert their action in the living body. Examples are the 
gastrin, formed in the stomach, which rouses to activity the gastric-secre- 
tory processes, and secretin, an active secretory hormone of the intestine. 
These substances are probably basic and are heat stable. They are not 
contained in food but are formed in the body. 

Enzymes (See Chapter VI).-T-The catalyzers of the body, by whose 
action various chemical reactions are hastened, are likewise of physiolog- 
ical rather than immediate food interest, though they play an all-impor- 
tant part in the transformation which food undergoes in the body. Their 
occurrence in food is ordinarily merely incidental. 

PROTEINS 

The proteins include all the organized nitrogenous substances which 
occur in animal or vegetable tissues, excepting the nitrogenous fats(l). 
They contain an average of 16 per cent nitrogen; hence the protein sub- 
stances are usually estimated by multiplying the quantity of the nitrogen 
by the factor 6.25. 

Proteins are necessary constituents of all animal and vegetable cells; 
therefore, they are an indispensable principle of our diet. In fact, they 
are the actual vehicles of life, and upon their properties the very possi- 
bility of life depends. 

Proteins are colloidal substances whose molecules are exceedingly 
large, it being estimated that the molecular weight of individual proteins 
is 10,000-15,000 or even more. Bunge recoOTiized that they never occur 
pure in nature, but are combined with mineral substances. Moreover, it 
is known that mineral matter is essential to the physiological activity of 
protein, a fact which emphasizes the interrelation of the proximate prin- 
ciples of the living cell. 

It is not strange that proteins combine with mineral substances, since 



66 



PROXIMATE PRINCIPLES OF FOOD 



w 




cog 






.S a 4.S 

-^ s Sis 



OQ . 05 lO -^ lO t^ i-H -OOSJ -lO -"SCJ • 
g • t^ lO O u:i rH t* -ooo • »o -iCOO • 

O . 05 OS 05 «0 CO '-• • i-H .-H -co .1-1 
^ fH (M 

03 lO »0 00 »0 C^ »0 (N051040 • 

S cCT-Hr-ic^ »CcO'-i»-i • 

O "-^ rH • • 

o^Tt^OOOQQO • -O -00 -kO • • 
gCOOlCCCOOOiO • -t^ -co -(N • • • 

O i-i 00 CO CO CO CI • • lO • • (N • • 

en ^ 00 00 -^ C: CO • -Q • • -^ -O • • 
G t^ »0 CO t^ 00 1^ . .^ . -CO -CO ; ; 

niCCO'-H^C0*--'-i--'- 

ajQOOOOOOcO • • -O • lO (N O • 
giOOO^(M'*OOuo • • -O -t^OTj^ • I 

Qco"(Nio'" .•••CO-(Ml>'- 

aJOOOOOOOuO • CO Q CO Q O Q g 
g 00 CD 05 t^ "^ CO iO (N -COO^-iOOOOm 

OC0C0d^(MCOTjH '(N(MC^^'t-h2^ 

tn -OiOOOiOOS • 0»OCOOiO'-i O O O 
g • ^ CO t>. <M »0 CO • (N • (N lO 05 00 iO lO t^ 

O • i-t Oi CO CO >o »H -t^l " TjH CO CO ci 1-H 

02 (N (M OCO Tf OTjHt^ g 

g iO (M t^ l> OO (N »0 CO ••;••;;» ; 

Owcooo(n'co(NC^ ' 2:^ 

1-1 p^ 

g ;COqOOiO^CO -co • ; • • -^ ; 

O • (N d'H CO T-i CO (N • * *• • • '• U • 

CSI pu, 

03 • 05 ^ ^-^COCOi-t • CO Tt< CO 00 (M CO S 

S-r-HOCO<Nt^Tt<CO • IOOCO(N Tt<05 M 

O- • • c; 
• •'tlOS C^ rji 1-1 Tj< . 1-1 1-1 rt lO O t^ 
<N i-hCW 



(nOC0O»0OOO -Og -lO 

S CO CO lo c^ c<i 00 ci • i-h ^ -co 



c S^ S^ 

d O SJ 3 P-S?'-5'C r^H ca 



8 
8-a 



■i 



PROTEINS 67 

they themselves have both acid and basic properties. This is attributable 
to the fact that they are combinations of amino-acids. Some twenty or 
more of these acids have been isolated from proteins in vv^hich they are 
linked together in various combinations, forming complicated chains or 
networks, in this way making up the giant protein molecule. 

Protein Amino-acids. — Abderhalden estimates that the number of the 
possible combinations of twenty known protein amino-acids (2), in which 
each individual amino-acid is present once and only once, is represented 
by a number composed of thirteen digits. With this possibility, it is easy 
to comprehend how different classes of proteins present differences in 
internal structure, even though by ordinary methods they are regarded as 
identical. Proteins of different animals may present less evident differ- 
ences. Such differences have in recent times been demonstrated biolog- 
ically in proteins heretofore regarded as identical. That is to say, the 
very proteins which perform identical functions in different animals are 
not themselves identical, but differ from genus to genus, from species to 
species ; and the more widely separated from each other in the evolution- 
ary scheme the greater the differences of such proteins. The effect of this 
conception upon physiological thought has been and must continue to be 
far reaching. 

The part played by the amino-acids is most interesting and instruc- 
tive, and an endeavor will be made to further elucidate this phase of the 
question. Before dealing more closely with the amino-acids^ it will be 
pertinent to discuss their nature. Since all the known disintegration 
products of the simple proteins belong to the class of the amino-acids, it 
may be of use to point out some of their distinguishing features. 

An amino-acid is derived from an organic acid by the replacing of 
one atom of hydrogen by the amino group NH2. Thus from the acids, 

Acetic Acid Propionic Acid 

CH3 CH3 

I I 

COOH CH2 

I 
COOH 

we may obtain the mono-amino-acids, 

Amino-acetic acid Alanin or a-aminopropionic acid 

CH2NH2 CH, 

I I 

COOH CH.NH, 

I 
COOH 



68 PKOXIMATE PKINCIPLES OF FOOD 

It will be noticed that in the fatty acids with more than two atoms of 
carbon the position of the NHo group may be varied. Thus instead of 
alanin we may have another aminopropionic acid, namely: 

CH2NH2 

I 
CH2 

I 
COOH 

This acid would be referred to as yS-^niinopropionic acid, alanin 
being a -aminopropionic acid. This nomenclature is always employed to 
distinguish the position of the NH2 group, so that we may have mono- 
amino-acids, a, )8, y, 8, e, etc. Practically all the amino-acids which 
occur as constituents of the protoplasm molecule belong to the a group. 

On inspection of the formula of glycin it is evident that only one 
isomer of this body is possible. In alanin, however, the carbon atom to 
which NH2 is attached is asymmetric, since its four combining affinities 
are each attached to different groups, thus : 

CHs 

I 
H— C— NH2 

I 
COOH 

In this case, therefore, there is a possibility of stereo-isomerism, and 
alanin must have an influence on polarized light. If the compound 

CH3 

I 
HCNH2 

I 
COOH 

is dextrorotatory, then its stereo-isomer 

CH3 

I 
H2NCH 

I 
COOH 

will be levorotatory and it will be possible to obtain a racemic modifica- 
tion without any influence on polarized light by mixing equal molecules 
of these isomeric forms. All the amino-acids derived from proteins are 



PROTEINS 69 

optically active, whereas those obtained by synthesis are inactive, and 
special means have to be devised in order to obtain from the artificially 
formed racemic amino-acid either the 1- or d-amino-acid. 

If more than one hydrogen atom in an organic acid be replaced by 
NHg we obtain diamino- and triamino-acids. Thus ornithin obtained by 
the splitting up of arginin, one of the commonest disintegration products 
of protein, is an a 8 diaminovalerianic acid, 

CHoNH 



2±y XX2 



CH2 

I 
CH2 

I 

CH. NH2 

I 
COOH. 

The presence in the ami no-acids of the basic radical NH^ and of the 
acid group COOH lends to these bodies a double character. In them- 
selves devoid of strong chemical qualities, possessing neither acid nor 
alkaline reaction, they are able in the presence of strong acids or bases 
to act either as base or acid. When in solution by themselves it is possible 
that there is an actual closing of the ring by a soluble union between the 
XHo group and the COOH group, so that, e.g., the formula of glycin 
may be 

CH2— NH3 

I I 

CO — o. 

When such a neutral compound is treated with acid, this bond is 
loosed and we have the salt of the amino-acid. Thus, with hydrochloric 
acid, glycin forms glycin hydrochlorate, 

CH2NH2HCI 

I 
COOH 

a salt which still possesses an acid group and which is, therefore, capable 
of combining with ethyl to form the hydrochlorate of the ester of the 
amino-acid, thus: 

CH2NH2HCI 

I 
COOCHs. 



70 PKOXIMATE PEINCIPLES OF FOOD 

With bases, the amino-acids form salt-like compounds such as potas- 
sium amino-acetate, 

CH2NH2 

I 
COOH. 

With neutral salts crystalline compounds may also be formed. With 
sodium chlorid glycin will form the double salt CgHgNOaNaCl. 

Not only do the amino-acids form compounds with salts, but they also 
combine with one another. This power of combination greatly increases 
the difficulty of separating the constituents from a mixture of amino- 
acids. Amino-acids which singly are extremely insoluble are readily solu- 
ble in the presence of other amino-acids. On account of the dual nature 
of the amino-acid molecule, these substances act as feeble conductors of 
the electric current, i.e., as electrolytes. 

METHODS OF SEPARATING AMINO-ACIDS.— By the hydrolysis of pro- 
tein by means of acid or of trypsin, a complex mixture of amino-acids is 
obtained(3). From this mixture certain amino-acids are separated with 
ease. Thus, tyrosin, which is extremely insoluble, crystallizes out on con- 
centrating the fluid, and further concentration leads to the separation of 
leucin. The other acids which keep each other mutually in solution are, 
however, very difficult to isolate. Fischer was the first to devise a general 
method for their separation. 

The Disintegration Products of the Proteins. — By Fischer's 
method among the substances isolated from proteins are the following: 

Fatty Series. 

(1) Mono-amino-acids (Monobasic). 

Glycin or Glycocoll. This, the simplest member of the group, is 
amino-acetic acid, 

CH2NH2 

I 
COOH 

which occurs in considerable quantities among the disintegration products 
of gelatin and to a less extent among those derived from certain of the 
other proteins. 

Alanin is an a-amino-propionic acid, 

CH3 

I 
CH.NH2 

I 
COOH. 



PKOTEINS 71 

It is optically active, the alanin derived from protein being dextrorota- 
tory. 

Closely allied to alanin is the amino-acid serin which was first ob- 
tained by the hydrolysis of silk and has since been found as a constituent 
of a large number of proteins. Its formula is : 

CH2OH 

I 
CH.NH2 

. I . 

COOH. 

It is an amino-oxypropionic acid. Its special interest lies in the fact that 
it was one of the first of the amino-oxyacids to be isolated, and it is pos- 
sible in these acids that we must seek the intermediate stages between 
carbohydrates and proteins. 

Aminovalerianic acid has the formula : 

CH3CH3 

v 

CH 

I 
CH.NH2 

I 
COOH. 

It occurs only in small quantities in the protein molecule. 

Leucin, one of the oldest known members of the group of amino-acids, 
is obtained in large quantities from the disintegration of nearly all the 
animal proteins, of which in some cases it may form as much as 20 per 
cent. It has the formula : 

CHaCHs 

\/ 

CH 

I 
CH2 

I 
CH.NH2 

I 
COOH. 

It is an amino-isobutyl acid. On evaporating a tryptic digest of protein, 
impure leucin crystallizes out in the form of imperfect crystals, the so- 
called leucin cones. 

There are also mono-amino derivatives of dibasic acids, di amino-acid s, 



72 PKOXIMATE PKIJSTCIPLES OF FOOD 

amino-acids containing an aromatic nucleus, amino-acids of heterocyclic 
compounds, sulphur-containing amino-acids. 

Thus all the proximate constituents of simple proteins, as far as is 
known, are amino-acids. Of these the acids mentioned in the table, page 
66, have been isolated. 

These results show that all the proteins contain a very considerable 
proportion of the total number of amino-acids which have as yet been 
isolated from acid digests of proteins. The differences in various pro- 
teins cannot therefore be determined by qualitative diiferences in their 
constituent molecules, but must depend on the relative amounts of the 
amino-acids which are present and on their arrangement in the whole 
molecule. 

Deaminization^. — This process involves the splitting off of an NH2 
group from an amino-acid as ammonia, and its replacement by H or OH. 
Many tissues of the body appear to have this power. In most cases 
the nature of the change in the remaining moiety of the molecule has 
not yet been ascertained. If, for instance, some amino-acid, such as gly- 
cin, alanin or leucin, be added to a mass of liver cells, ammonia is set free 
in proportion to the amount of amino-acid which was added. The am- 
monia, therefore, is assumed to be derived from the amino-acid. 

Certain investigations of !Neubauer tend to show that deaminization 
is accompanied in the first place by oxidation, so that the first intermedi- 
ate product formed is not an oxyacid but a ketonic acid. A second atom 
of oxygen is then taken up, and carbon dioxid is split off, with the pro- 
duction of the next lower acid of the series. 

However, it would be superfluous to elaborate further the principle 
of deaminization. It will be sufficient to restate the hypothesis that prac- 
tically all the proteins of the body are absorbed by the blood stream, re- 
moved from it by the tissue cells and dealt with either for the purpose 
of assimilation into protoplasm, or for the discharge as waste material 
by the kidney. Deaminization is essential to bring about the end. The 
arguments in support of this line of reasoning are as follows : In the first 
place there has been the discovery of erepsin, which assists the pancreatic 
juice in cleaving proteins into their simple crystalline products; in the 
second place, there are the experiments of Loewi and Abderhalden and 
of others which have shown that animals maintain their nitrogenous 
equilibrium and health when fed exclusively upon these simple materials ; 
thirdly, there are the experiments of Schryver, of Leathes and of Howell, 
who have shown that the non-protein nitrogenous constituents of the blood 
and liver increase after the taking of a protein meal ; and they have been 



PKOTEINS 73 

sucessful in the difficult task of detecting in the blood stream some of the 
individual amino-acids. Lastly, there has been the discovery of Vernon 
and others, of intracellular enzymes in the various tissues which render 
the cells capable of dealing with these substances which reach them via 
the blood and lymph. 

Chemical Classification of Proteins. — The present chemical classification 
of proteins {see table on page 75) is based upon gross differences in 
structure, differences in solubility, etc., and does not recognize the subtle 
differences just described that have been demonstrated by biological 
methods. Nevertheless, the chemical classification is helpful and impor- 
tant. !N^ative proteins are divided into simple and compound. The 
former include albumins, which are apparently soluble in water alone and 
are less easily precipitated than most proteins; and globulins, which re- 
quire the presence of neutral salt to keep them in solution. While at one 
time it was thought that these made up a considerable amount of the cyto- 
plasm of the cells, it is now recognized that they form a relatively insignifi- 
cant part, the chief mass of the protein substances consisting of the more 
complex compound proteins, the albumins and globulins being nutritive 
materials for the cells or destruction products in the chemical transforma- 
tions of the protoplasm. 

ACTION OF PEOTEINS.— The recent work of Abderhalden and the 
study of cytolysins afford evidence that the proteins of the liver, spleen, 
pancreas, and possibly other organs have their special peculiarities. Each 
kind of foodstuff, and indeed each individual protein fraction, follows 
its own special metabolic path. Moreover, there are paths for fats and 
paths for carbohydrates, and it is evident that even dextrose and levulose 
are dealt with in different manners, for a patient whose power of burning 
dextrose is grossly impaired, might deal with levulose with far better suc- 
cess. In the same way the power of catabolizing a single protein fraction 
might be lacking in an individual who was able to dispose of other protein 
fractions in a normal manner. It is believed that these changes are 
wrought by specialized enzymes, many, if not all, of which are capable of 
reversed action. 

The most prominent compound protein of the cell is nucleoprotein, a 
compound of simple protein with nucleic acid; this latter being a phos- 
phoric acid compound of purin bases, pyrimidins and sugar. In the cell, 
nucleoprotein exists in the acid condition in the chromatin structure of 
the nucleus, while in the cytoplasm the acid is quite saturated with pro- 
tein. 

The solution of a protein is in some respects hardly more than a sus- 



74 PKOXIMATE PKINCIPLES OF FOOD 

pension, so that relatively slight changes suffice to throw it out. Thus, 
many proteins may undergo changes whereby they lose their solubility 
and become inert masses. This state of ^ 'coagulation" may be brought 
about outside the body in the presence of water by the action of heat, of 
chemicals or of enzymes ; it also may occur spontaneously within the body 
probably from enzyme action when the life of the tissue is extinguished. 
Certain natural changes are thus explained, such as coagulation of blood 
and rigor mortis. 

DIGESTION OF PROTEINS.— The digestion of proteins, that is to say 
their preparation in alimentation for absorption, has long been a matter 
of investigation. The change is at first one of hydration and cleavage 
whereby soluble and slightly diffusible products are formed, namely, pro- 
teoses and peptones, and it was long thought that it was in this form that 
proteins were absorbed. It is now believed that the end accomplished by 
protein digestion is the breaking down of the complex protein molecule 
into its simple constituent amino-acids, or at least into relatively simple 
combinations of amino-acids, by which change the protein character is 
entirely lost. According to this conception, the reconstruction of the pro- 
teins in the organism starts from the simple amino-acid fractions, a view 
that furnishes an adequate explanation of how the transformation of the 
foreign food proteins into proteins that are specific for the individual 
organism, or at least for the species, is accomplished. 

The protein breakdown in digestion is brought about by enzymes of 
the digestive juices. The reconstruction of tissue proteins after absorp- 
tion is likewise accomplished by enzymes which are now working in a 
reverse direction, taking the simple blocks liberated by the digestive proc- 
esses and recombining them into structures, that is to say protein mole- 
cules, of the nature that constitutes the particular tissues of the indi- 
vidual. There is thus the explanation of individuality in chemical com- 
position as in structural morphology. Applied to germ plasm, it is readily 
seen how this conception bears upon the problem of hereditary transmis- 
sions. 

Fischer has thrown much light on the structure of proteins by the 
experimental joining of amino-acids into combinations, so-called peptids, 
of greater or less complexity. Molecules have thus been synthesized that 
present many of the characters of native proteins. 

The mechanism by which the regulation of the intricate metabolic 
changes are maintained, and the work of the regulating mechanism in the 
animal body, are made manifest in a variety of different ways. Thus we 
know that internal secretions are implements rather than originators of 



PROTEINS 75 

control. The hormones are themselves but chemical products of certain 
specialized cells, and the activities of the glands which produce them are 
under the control of the vegetative nervous system which transmits to 
them impulses in response to the chemical demands of the tissues. 

Thus we sea that proteins are of very complex constitution, occurring 
in both animal and vegetable foods, and that chemically they may be re- 
garded as peptids or combinations of amino-acids and their derivatives. 
They are colorless, odorless, in general tasteless, non-volatile and of vary- 
ing degrees of solubility; they are putrefiable and readily undergo chem- 
ical change under the influence of the digestive ferments. 

Proteins^ as Classified by American Biochemists (4) 

I Simple Proteins II Conjugated Proteins III Derived Proteins 

A Albumins A Chromoproteins A Primary Protein Derivatives 

B Globulins B Glyco- or glucoproteins a Proteans 

C Glutelins C Phosphoproteins b Metaproteins 

D Prolamins D Nucleoproteins c Coagulated proteins 

E Albuminoids E Leeithoproteins B Secondary Protein Derivatives 

F Histones a Proteoses 

G Protamins b Peptones 

c Peptids 

SIMPLE PEOTEINS.— These are native proteins that apparently are 
made up entirely of amino-acids, or at least contain no distinct moiety 
capable of being split off as such. 

Coagulable proteins are the typical simple proteins. They are the al- 
bumins and globulins and occur together in most tissues and fluids of 
animals, as also in various parts of plants, especially fruits and seeds. 
They are changed into insoluble modifications when they are heated to 
boiling in a very slightly acid solution. They are built up of a rather 
large proportion of mono-amino-acids, in distinction to histon and espe- 
cially protamin, in which the diamino-acids are conspicuous. Moreover, 
the mono-amino-acids include at least eight varieties. The important 
chemical distinction is that while albumins are soluble in water, globu- 
lins are only soluble in dilute salt solutions. Further, albumins are less 
readily salted out of solution than are globulins. 

Albumins. — Albumins are widely distributed. The molecule is 
highly complex and within certain limits varies greatly in different or- 
gans and conditions. The chief examples of albumins are serum albumin, 
eg:g albumin, myo-albumin, lactalbumin, vegetable albumin. The serum- 
albumin of the blood serum, plasma, lymph and other tissue fluids is 
probably a mixture of two albumins, from one of which amino-sugar was 
obtained by Langstein. 



I og 



05 S >i <u eS. 
aj*^ « 3 (O'Z ~ 

■""•■- -3 2 
^.2 b ? £ ^ 

tUTS (UT! eS-i, 



QD i« cn CO aa cQ 

0) S 4) S aj S « 
en CO 5 oj 2 to 2 
0050502 ^^_= 

'C-Oaj'OoScS 'Ogj 2 



O 01 

o 




;t5 



■ II 



» 



i ^ 

I i 






05 2 a; o 



v3!-a M C 00 



- * a 

ill 



« >> .2 ^ a 



« 'Si 












o ~ 
> O 



< oa o Q w 



^•1 
-c a. 



a 
d 'S. 
a o 
I 1 

£ o 



s i 



O W 




d 

Z 3 

If 
I' 



77 



78 PKOXIMATE PKINCIPLES OF FOOD 

Globulins. — Globulins are quite abundant and may be present with 
an appreciable amount of sodium chlorid. The chief examples are serum- 
globulin, paraglobulin, myoglobulin, myosinogen (myosin), fibrinogen 
(fibrin), vegetable myosin, legumin or vegetable casein, vitellin, etc. 
While albuinins are only sparingly present among vegetable proteins, the 
globulins are common. Serumglobulin, paraglobulin, or fibrinoplastin is 
abundantly present in blood serum, plasma, lymph, red blood corpuscles, 
leucocytes, and also probably in the cells of many tissues. Fibrinogen 
occurs in blood, lymph, chyle and certain transudates, and possibly is 
formed from a destruction of leucocytes. Vitellin is the globulin of egg 
yolk, which is not precipitated by sodium chlorid. 

In the pea, horse bean, lentil and vetch the globulin legumin is abun- 
dant; in the first three mentioned, vicilin is also present. These seeds 
contain small quantities of the albumin, legumelin. 

In the oil seeds (nuts), globulins are the principal protein, as excelsin 
in Brazil nuts and edestin in hempseed. When properly separated from 
solution, many of these proteins present a crystalline form. 

The chief protein constituents of the seeds of cereals form a distinct 
group not represented in other plants nor in animals. In wheat these are 
gliadin, belonging to the prolamins, and glutenin, a glutelin. The gluten 
of dough is a mixture of gliadin and glutenin in roughly equal propor- 
tions in which the gliadin forms a sticky mass with water and binds to- 
gether the particles of glutenin. 

Glutelins. — Glutenin is insoluble in water and salt solutions, but 
soluble in dilute acid or alkali. It gives most of the general reactions for 
proteins. 

Prolamins. — Prolamins, of which gliadin is an example, are insolu- 
ble in water and in absolute alcohol, but dissolve in alcohol of 80 per cent. 
They give most of the general reactions for proteins. Besides their pe- 
culiar solubility, they differ in composition from other proteins in that 
they contain a large amount of prolin and also amido groups, hence the 
designation prolamins. There is also a large amount of glutamic acid. 
Zein of maize and hordein of barley are other prolamins. 

Albuminoids. — Albuminoids, designated scleroproteins in the Eng- 
lish classification, constitute the chief protein constituents of the support- 
ing tissues of the animal body, in marked distinction to plants in which 
these tissues are carbohydrate in nature (cellulose, etc.). However, 
chitin, which makes up the hard parts of the arthropoda and is usually 
designated an albuminoid, is believed to be a polymerized mono-acetyl 



PKOTEINS 79 

glucosamin and is llius chemically related to the carbohydrates. Its rela- 
tion to the glycoproteins is indicated below. The keratins, the albuminoid 
basis of hair, nails, feathers, horn, epidermis, etc., are ordinarily incapa- 
ble of digestion and so present no food interest. Elastin, the chief con- 
stituent of elastic tissue, is very resistant. While under some circum- 
stances it is easily digested by pepsin and is said to be actually digested 
in dogs, it is believed to be only partially digested by human beings. Col- 
lagen, which forms the most abundant nitrogenous constituent of the 
ground substance of connective tissue of bone and of cartilage, is converted 
into gelatin by boiling with water and is thus of considerable food inter- 
est. The aromatic amino-acids do not enter into the composition of this 
protein, so that it is sometimes referred to as an incomplete protein. On 
this account it does not fulfill the protein requirements of the body, though' 
in conjunction with complete proteins it reduces the quantity of the lat- 
ter which is necessary for sustenance. It is also on account of the absence 
of aromatic amino-acids that under bacterial growth it does not undergo 
putrid decomposition, which fact renders it of great service when this 
process is to be avoided in alimentation. Chondro-albuminoid of cartilage 
and osseo-albuminoid of bone are present in relatively small amounts and 
are so resistant that they probably yield little or no protein nourishment 
to the body. 

HisTONs. — Histons are basic proteins occupying a place midway 
between protamin and typical protein, and in some instances, at least, 
seem to be intermediate products in the formation of protamin. On hy- 
drolysis they yield a larger proportion of arginin than albumins and 
globulins, but less than protamins. Examples are the histons from blood 
corpuscles and from thymus, as well as from the unripe testicles of fish. 
Globin, the protein moiety of the conjugated protein hemoglobin, has 
been considered to be a histon. However, in its properties it has many 
points of diiference, most important of which is that while 29 per cent 
of its nitrogen is in the form of diamino-acids, the chief acid is histidin, 
not arginin. 

Protamins. — Protamins, sometimes called basic proteins, are the sim- 
plest of all proteins, and probably form the base or nucleus of all typical 
protein. Prominent examples of protamins are salmin and sturin, ob- 
tained from the corresponding fish sperm in which they are present as 
salts of nucleic acid. They differ from the more familiar proteins, being 
composed chiefly of diamino-acids, and especially arginin, and seem to 
be derived from the diamino-acid portion of muscle protein during 
growth in the spawning season. 



80 PEOXIMATE PEINCIPLES OF POOD 

CONJUGATED PKOTEINS.— These are composed of a protein moiety in 
conjunction with a so-called prosthetic group, usually acid in nature, 
which determines the class to which they belong. 

Chromoproteins. — Chromoproteins have prosthetic groups that are 
colored. The iron-containing hematin of hemoglobin is a familiar exam- 
ple. Chlorophyll, whose composition is not yet known, probably belongs 
to this class, as do the crystalline conjugated proteins, phycoerythrin and 
phycocyan, closely associated with chlorophyll in plants. That chloro- 
phyll contains a prosthetic group similar to hematin is suggested by the 
fact that, like hematin, on decomposition it yields pyrrol derivatives. 
However, it contains no iron, but, instead, magnesium. 

Glyco- or Glucoproteiis^s. — These are characterized by having 
prosthetic groups that are carbohydrates. The group in most cases is 
glucosamin or a polysaccharid composed of glucosamin units, such as 
chondroitic acid. The particular examples are the mucins and mucoids, 
the former yielding slimy or gummy solutions while the latter do not. 
Mucins occur in saliva, the prosthetic group making up 36.9 per cent of 
the salivary mucin and 26 per cent of the submaxillary. This radical is 
probably in part and perhaps wholly glucosamin. Moreover, it is prob- 
ably a monoacetyl hexosamin, which fact relates it to chitin, which is a 
polymer of an acetylated glucosamin. The carbohydrate group separated 
from mucin by boiling with alkali, the animal gum of Landwehr, has a 
reducing action only after hydrolysis, which further relates it to chitin 
and to chondroitic acid. This latter in the prosthetic group of mucoids, 
whether chondromucoid, tendomucoid or osseomucoid substances, occurs 
in the corresponding tissues. Chondroitic acid is the sulphuric acid com- 
pound of chondroitin which on decomposition yields acetic acid, glycu- 
ronic acid and glucosamin. It is the formation from the prosthetic group 
by hydrolysis of these carbohydrate radicals that justifies the classification 
of the mucins and mucoids as glucoproteins. 

Phosphoproteins. — These are of considerable importance in food 
chemistry because being present in milk, in the eggs of birds and frogs 
and fish they constitute the greater part of the protein present in the food- 
stuffs of young mammals and of embryo birds. They contain phosphorus, 
but their prosthetic group has not been identified; hence they are regarded 
as simple proteins in the English classification. They were formerly 
called nucleo-albumins, but they yield neither nucleic acid, purins nor 
pyramid! ns on hydrolytic decomposition. Casein of milk, termed caseino- 
gen by the English, is the most familiar example, while vitellin of egg 
yolk, occurring in loose combination with lecithin, is another. It is the 



PROTEINS 81 

casein of milk that separates as a curd under the enzyme action of rennin. 
The presence of calcium salts is essential to this process. 

NucLEOPROTEiNs. — They are characterized by the prosthetic group 
nucleic acid. In typical nucleoproteins this is a combination of ortho- 
phosphoric acid with (a) a carbohydrate, either a hexose or pentose, 
which in turn is combined in part with (b) the purin bases guanin and 
adenin and in part with (c) two of the three pyramidin bases, cytasin, 
thymin and uracyl. A single grouping of a phosphoric acid, carbohy- 
drate and purin or pyramidin base, is called a mononucleotid. Nucleic 
acid is a tetranucleotid, in which two are purin and two pyrimidin. The 
carbohydrate and purin or pyrimidin combination is a nucleosid. When 
nucleoproteins are hydrolyzed through the action of pepsin-hydrochloric 
acid, the action does not proceed to complete hydrolysis, but part of the 
protein remains combined with the nucleic acid as an insoluble compound 
termed nuclein. Since nucleoproteins are regularly important constitu- 
ents of cell nuclei and occur as well, though with a lesser proportion of 
nucleic acid, in the cytoplasm, it will be appreciated why cellular food 
is the source of exogenous purins, and that a purin-free diet may not in- 
clude these nucleoprotein-containing tissues. 

Purin Bodies 

Purin C5H4N4 

Hypoxanthin, 6 — mono-oxy purin C5H4N4O 

Xanthin, 2, 6 — dioxypurin C5H4N4O2 

Uric acid, 2, 6, 8 — trioxypurin C5H4N4O3 

Adenin, 6 — aminopurin C5H3N4 . NHj 

Guanin, 2 — amino — 6 — oxypurin C5H3N4O.NH2 

Theobromin, 3, 7— dimethyl— 2, 6— dioxypurin C5H2N4O2 ( CH3 ) , 

Theophyllin, 1, 3— dimethyl— 2, 6— dioxypurin C5H2N4O2 ( CH3 ) , 

Caffein, 1, 3, 7— trimethyl— 2, 6— dioxypurin C5HN402(CH3)3 

These compounds are closely related in chemical structure and are 
found more or less closely associated in both animals and plants. They 
have the following heterocyclic ring structure; for convenience the posi- 
tions are given fixed numbers : 

IN— 6C 

I I 
2C 5C— 7N. 

I I >C8 

3N— 4C— N9^ 

In purin, hydrogen enters into the 2, 6, 7 and 8 positions. In the 
various purin bodies, the particular groups enter into the positions indi- 
cated in the names designated above. In the various organs of the body, 



82 PEOXIMATE PKINCIPLES OF FOOD 

enzymes tend to transform the purin bodies to other members of the 
group. Thus, guanase hydrolyzes guanin with the formation of ammonia 
and xanthin ; adenase hydrolyzes adenin into ammonia and hypoxanthin ; 
hypoxanthin passes by oxidation into xanthin, which, in turn, through 
the agency of xanthinoxidase is transformed into uric acid. Finally, the 
uricolytic enzymes transform uric acid into allantoin, though this destruc- 
tive power seems to have been largely or wholly lost in human beings. 

Guanin and adenin preexist in nucleic acid. Among the products of 
hydrolysis, xanthin and hypoxanthin are apt to be produced. Such 
change may also be brought about by the enzymes in the tissues. 

Caffein is the familiar constituent of coffee beans (0.8 — 1.7 per cent), 
cocoa beans (0.1 — 0.8 per cent), cocoanuts (1.2 per cent), and tea leaves 
(2 — 5 per cent). Two and one-half to 5 per cent is present in guarana, 
the roasted fruit of Paullinia, which is eaten in South America. Theo- 
bromin is present to the extent of 1.5 — 2.4 per cent in cocoa beans and 
in smaller amounts in Kolo nuts and tea leaves. It is not present in cof- 
fee beans. Theophyllin has been isolated from the extracts of tea. 

Pyrimidin Bases 

Pyrimidin C4H4N2 

Uracil, 2, 6 — dioxypyrmidin C4n4N202 

Cytosin, 6 — amino — 2 — oxypyrimidin C4H3N2O . NH3 

Thymin, 5 — methyl — 2, 6 — dioxypyrimidin C4H3N2O2.CH3 

These are heterocyclic compounds presenting the following structure: 

IN— C6 

I I 
2C C5 

I I 
3N— C4 

Because this ring is a portion of the purin structure, it has been sug- 
gested that the pyramidins are purin decomposition products, but such 
proves not to be the case. At least two of them preexist in nucleic acid, 
but it is probable that uracil is formed from cytosin during the hydrolysis. 

Lecithoproteins. — Lecithoproteins have lecithin or a phospholipin 
as the prosthetic group. Their existence in cytoplasm is probable but 
they have not yet been isolated. The globulin vitellin is believed to exist 
in egg yolk either wholly or in part as lecithovitellin ; likewise, a lecitho- 
protein has been described as present in the gastric mucosa. 

DERIVED PROTEINS. — These are the transformed proteins, including 
proteins that have undergone decomposition, or synthesized compounds 
resembling such products. 



PROTEINS 83 

Primary Protein Derivatives are certain transformed proteins that 
have not been changed to the state of hydrolytic decomposition. 

Proteans. — These are the first products of the action of acids, en- 
zymes or water. They are insohible in water. 

Metaproteins. — The proteins in this group are formed by the fur- 
ther action of acid or alkalies and include acid albumin and alkali albu- 
min. 

Coagulated Proteins. — These are the insoluble modifications pro- 
duced by the action of heat and alcohol. The coagulated Q^g white is a 
familiar example. 

Secondary Protein Derivatives present varying stages of hydrolytic 
decomposition. 

Proteoses. — These proteins are soluble in water, not coagulated by 
heat and precipitated by saturation of their solution with ammonium sul- 
phate. The individual members are designated by their particular name, 
e.g., albumoses, globuloses, gelatoses, etc. 

Peptones. — These products of further hydrolysis are soluble, non- 
coagulable by heat and are not precipitated by saturation of their solution 
with ammonium sulphate. They are somewhat more diffusible and give 
the biuret reaction, though with a decidedly more pinkish hue than the 
native proteins or even the proteoses. 

Peptids. — These are relatively simple compounds of the amino-acids, 
either products of hydrolytic decomposition or of synthetic origin, whose 
exact composition is known. The amino-acids combine through the amino 
and carboxyl groups. Peptids may or may not give the biuret reaction. 
They are designated di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-peptids, etc., according to the 
number of amino-acids that enter into their composition. Where this is 
large, the designation polypeptid is employed. 

NITROGENOUS EXTRACTIVES.— More or less closely related to the 
amino-acids of proteins are certain nitrogenous substances that are fre- 
quently found associated with them and which, together with nonprotein 
amino-acids, go to make up what were formerly known as nitrogenous 
extractives. 

Amids. — These, found in both animals and plants, are derivatives of 
the fatty acids in which the hydroxyl of one or more carboxyl group is 
replaced by an amino (NH2) group. Thus asparagin of plants is an 
amid of aspartic acid. 

Betain. — This compound, which occurs in both animals and plants, 
is a trimethylamin derivative of acetic acid. 

GuANiDiN. — These derivatives, notably methylguanidin of meat, the 



84 PROXIMATE 1^RI:N^CIPLES OF FOOD 

diamino-acid arginin and creatin, a constituent of meat, are of wide oc- 
currence. These substances must all be recognized as food constituents 
in small quantities. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

Of the constituents of an ordinary mixed diet, the carbohydrates are 
usually the most abundant, and, from the standpoint of cost, the most 
economical. They are found more especially in the various vegetable sub- 
stances and are of exceedingly varied structure and composition, as a rule 
containing in the molecule 6 atoms of carbon (or a multiple of 6) in com- 
bination with hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion to form water as 
shown in the following formulae, grape sugar CgHigOe, cane sugar, 
C12H22O11, etc. 

The carbohydrates include the sugars which are aldehyd or ketone al- 
cohols having the following common properties: (a) they have a sweet 
taste, (h) optically active, (c) may or may not reduce alkalin metallic 
solutions, (d) and yield characteristic crystalline compounds with phenyl- 
hydrazin. 

Classification of Carbohydrates. — Those containing multiples of three 
carbon atoms are fermentable by yeast, and yield alcohol. Others when 
heated with strong acids yield characteristic derivatives, i.e., the pentoses 
yield furfurol ; the hexoses yield levulinic acid. We recognize the follow- 
ing classification according to whether one, two or more sugar molecules 
enter into the formation of the molecule: Monosaccharids, Disaccharids, 
Polysaccharids. 

THE MONOSACCHAEIDS.— Under this classification belong the grape 
sugar group, comprising those which cannot be split by hydrolysis into 
sugars of lower molecule weight. They are white, odorless, sweet, crys- 
tallizable substances, readily soluble in water, sparingly soluble in alcohol, 
insoluble in ether. Like all aldehyds and ketones they are easily oxi- 
dized, acting as reducing agents. They are unaffected by digestive en- 
zymes, and if not attacked by bacteria in the digestive tract, they are 
absorbed and enter the blood current unchanged. In order to show in 
its name that a substance belongs to the carbohydrates, the ending ose is 
used to distinguish these bodies from the members of other groups. Ac- 
cording to the number of carbon atoms present, the monosaccharids are 
again subdivided into classes called, viz. : 

Trioses CgHgOg — glycerose an alcoholic aldehyd. 
Tetroses C^HgO^ — erythrose. 



CARBOHYDRATES 85 

Pentoses C5H10O5 — arabinose, ribose, rhamnose and xylose. 
Hexoses CQH.i2^e — dextrose, fructose, galactose, sorbinose. 
Heptoses C7H14O7 — niannoheptose, friictoheptose, glucoheptose. 
Octoses CgHigOg — mannoctosc, glucoctose. 
Nonoses C9Hi809 — mannonose, glucononose. 

The monosaccharids are converted into corresponding alcohols by nas- 
cent hydrogen, and conversely, the alcohols into monosaccharids by the 
loss of hydrogen. The more abundant ones are readily susceptible to alco- 
holic fermentation and are utilized for the production of glycogen in the 
animal body and in the maintenance of the normal glucose content of the 
blood(5). 

Pentoses. — These substances, C5H10O5, occur in many foods and 
vegetables as complex carbohydrates known as pentosans. When taken 
into the body pentosans are split off by hydrolytic cleavage, and pentose 
is excreted in the urine; considerable pentosans are found in the urine 
of persons addicted to the use of morphin. Pentoses are of great impor- 
tance, as they are constituents of certain nucleic acids and are contained 
in the nuclei and cytoplasm of cells (6). As pentosans they are widely 
distributed throughout the vegetable kingdom, where, particularly as 
xyla7i and arabin, they form a considerable proportion of the building 
material for the human economy. Pentosans are found in the juice of a 
large variety of green plants, being more abundant in the morning than 
in the evening. They occur to a considerable extent in the seeds of cereals 
and legumins, straws, grasses, etc. Water-free cassava contains 3.96 per 
cent, and eleven kinds of gum reveal its presence. They are not very 
digestible. The pentoses are converted into furfurol during the manufac- 
ture of alcohol. Experiments have been made to ascertain if the pentoses 
might be taken in diabetes as a substitute for other sugars; the results 
have shown that although the pentoses are soluble, they are not readily 
digested or assimilated by human beings, and that the portion which is 
absorbed readily passes into the urine. 

Hexoses. — These substances, CgHiaOe, are the most important of the 
aldoses and ketoses, both from a practical and physiological standpoint. 
The chief examples are dextrose and levulose, but there are two groups : 
(a) aldoses comprise dextrose, mannose, galactose, gulose, formose, acrose, 
talose; (h) ketoses comprise levulose and sorbinose. 

Dextrose or glucose is also called "grape sugar'' and "diabetic sugar." 
This is physiologically the most important sugar occurring in an impure- 
state in sweet fruits, such as grapes, also in seeds, roots and honey. It is 



86 PKOXIMATE PKII^CIPLES OF FOOD 

also obtained from other carbohydrates by hydrolysis either by acids or 
enzymes, and thus becomes the principal form of the carbohydrate after 
the food enters into the animal economy. In the animal economy of a 
healthy individual, the glucose of the blood is constantly being burned 
and replaced. In diabetes, the system loses to a greater or less degree the 
power to burn glucose; it then accumulates in excessive amounts in the 
blood, from which it escapes through the kidneys. A temporary loss of 
glucose in the urine may occur as the result of feeding large quantities 
of sugar at a time. This condition is known as alimentary glycosuria. 
Under ordinary circumstances in a healthy individual any surplus of 
glucose absorbed from the digestive tract is converted into glycogen and 
stored in the liver. 

Levulose, fructose, CgHigOe, or fruit sugar, occurs with glucose in 
sweet fruits and honey. It resembles glucose in most of its chemical and 
physical properties, but does not crystallize from an aqueous solution. It 
may, however, be obtained in white silky needles from an alcoholic solu- 
tion. It is met with generally as a thick syrup, is about as sweet as cane 
sugar and turns the plane of polarized light to the left; it is formed to- 
gether with glucose by the action of dilute mineral acids or ferments on 
cane sugar (7). Fructose may occur in normal blood, but probably only 
in insignificant quantities. It serves, like glucose, for the production of 
glycogen; and the fructose which enters the body either through being 
eaten as such or as the result of the digestion of cane sugar is mainly 
changed to glycogen on reaching the liver, so that it does not enter largely 
into the blood or the general circulation. It may be readily understood, 
however, that fructose shovild be converted in the liver into glycogen, 
which on hydrolysis yields glucose. 

The sugar of fruit is usually an admixture of dextrose and levulose, 
and is called invert-sugar. It is uncrystallizable and forms granular 
masses in dried fruit — it consists of 4 parts of levulose and 3 parts of 
hydrated dextrose, some of which arise by inversion of saccharose. 

Galactose, CgHioOe, is not found free in nature, but results together 
with glucose from the hydrolysis of milk sugar, either by acids or by di- 
gestive enzymes, and appears to have the same power as glucose and fruc- 
tose to promote the formation of glycogen in the animal body. It is also 
formed together with dextrose when gum arable is boiled with dilute sul- 
phuric acid. Galactose does not ferment with yeast. The anhydrids of 
galactose, known as galactans, occur quite widely distributed in plant 
products. The galactans of certain legumes are found to be readily di- 
gested. 



CARBOHYDRATES 87 

Sorbinose is the sugar in the fruit of the service tree and mountain 
ash, and appears to arise from the hydrolysis of a glucosid or, according 
to Freund, from the oxidation of a gelatinous substance in service 
fruit (8). 

Inosite, CoHigOe (muscle-sugar), is classed with the carbohydrates 
on account of its sweet taste, its readiness to undergo lactic and butyric 
fermentation, and the identity of its molecular formula with that of the 
hexoses. It occurs somewhat abundantly in unripe beans and peas, and 
sparingly in the liquid of muscular tissue ; traces are found in urine, the 
quantity increasing in certain diseases. It does not ferment with yeast 
and is optically inactive. 

Glucosamin, CflHigNOg, is an amino-sugar. It is derived from one 
of the hexoses, probably dextrose or mannose, being an intermediate sub- 
stance between the glucoses and amino-acids. It is to be regarded as a 
bridge between carbohydrates and proteins in the development process of 
matter. It has been obtained from glucoproteins, such as mucin, and also 
from chitin, the shells of lobsters, crabs, and other invertebrates. 

DISACCHARIDS.— Disaccharids, Ci2ll220ii> form the cane sugar 
group(9). They are also called bioses, di-hexoses and sucroses. The 
chief members of the group include ; 



Saccharose 


cane sugar 


Lactose 


milk sugar 


Maltose 


malt sugar 



They differ from monosaccharids by not fermenting directly and by 
not forming ozazones, and are sparingly soluble in alcohol. They are im- 
portant constituents of food and are changed to monosaccharids during the 
digestive process. In reality they are condensed glucoses formed by two 
molecules of any of the grape sugar group becoming joined together with 
the loss of a molecule of water. They are capable of hydrolytic cleavage 
into two molecules of monosaccharid. 

Saccharose, CJ2II22O11, is the chief member of the cane sugar group, 
and is more largely used for domestic sweetening than any other sub- 
stance. Chemically, it is a combination of the monosaccharids dextrose 
and levulose. It is very widely distributed throughout the vegetable 
kingdom in the juice of plants and fruits, but is especially abundant in 
the stalk of sugar cane, sugar-millet, roots of beet, carrot, and other vege- 
tables. Many of the common fruits and vegetables contain notable 
amounts of sucrose. Sucrose is said to constitute at least half the solid 
matter of pineapples. As a food it occupies a very high position, as will 



88 PEOXIMATE PKINCIPLES OF FOOD 

be seen by referring to Chapter XV, Sugar, Spices and Condiments. 
Physiologists have found an enzyme called invertase in the intestinal 
secretions which hydrolyzes cane sugar; the slight amount of hydrolysis 
which takes place in the stomach is believed to be due simply to the pres- 
ence of hydrochloric acid. 

Maltose, C12H22O11, is obtained by the action of diastase on starch. 
Diastase is an enzyme formed during the germination of various seeds 
(rye, wheat, barley, etc.), and it is for this reason that grain used for 
alcoholic liquors is converted into malt. It allows germination to proceed, 
during which process diastase is formed, which acts upon the starch to 
convert it into maltose and dextrin. Maltose is also formed as an inter- 
mediate product when starch is hydrolyzed by boiling with dilute mineral 
acids, as in the manufacture of commercial glucose. In animal digestion 
maltose is formed by the action of the ptyalin of the saliva or the amy- 
lopsin of the pancreatic juice upon starch or dextrin. The maltose split- 
ting enzyme of the intestinal juice readily hydrolyzes maltose to glucose. 
It also occurs in leaves of plants as a product of assimilation. It forms 
as much as 51 per cent of the dry matter of malt. In the process of di- 
gestion of starch in the alimentary canal maltose is formed, but the blood 
of the mesenteric vessels contains only dextrose, wherefore, it must be still 
further split before it is assimilated either previous to its absorption by 
the enzyme maltase in the succus entericus, or in its absorption in the 
cells of its intestinal mucosa. Therefore, it is not likely that any maltose 
as such is absorbed from the digestive tract under ordinary conditions, 
though the possibility cannot be denied that such absorption may occur 
and that maltose may play a part in the normal carbohydrate metabolism. 
Abderhalden(lO) found that when he injected maltose into the blood it 
appeared to be utilized to better advantage than either lactose or sucrose. 
He found that it could be obtained from glycogen by the action of dias- 
tatic enzymes in much the same way as from starch and dextrin. 

Lactose, Ci2ll220ii> saccharum lactis, or milk sugar, is found almost 
exclusively in milk of the mammalia. It is obtained by freeing milk 
from casein and fat, and evaporating the remaining liquid to a small bulk, 
when the milk sugar crystallizes on cooling. It may also be obtained by 
hydrolysis of certain carbohydrates and other vegetable substances by 
enzymes or acids. It is a combination of dextrose and galactose, and can 
be split into these monosaccharids. When hydrolyzed either by heating 
with acids or by the lactase of the intestinal juice, each molecule of 
lactose yields one molecule of glucose and one of galactose. In normal 
digestion probably none of the lactose eaten is absorbed as such, for 



CARBOHYDRATES 89 

lactose injected into the blood is eliminated quickly and almost com- 
pletely through the kidneys, but large quantities of lactose can be taken 
by the mouth without any such loss. 

TKISACCHAKIDS.— Under this heading are classified the rafRnose group 
of sugars, CigHgaOie, formed by the linking together of three molecules 
of the monosaccharids, with the loss of water. The chief members of 
this group are, viz. : 

Melitose, which occurs in manna and beet root molasses 
Melizitose, a sugar forming 20 per cent ^ 'honey dew." 

Melitose occurs in Australian manna and is a combination of one 
molecule each of dextrose, levulose and galactose, into which it can be 
separated by hydrolysis. 

Melizitose is a sugar which forms 20 per cent of ''honey dew" secreted 
on the leaves of various trees and also occurs in larchmanna. 

Tetrasacchaeids. — Stachyose, C24H42O20, is a very sweet sugar. It 
is a dextrorotatory, and can be hydrolyzed into dextrose, levulose and 
galactose. It is obtained in abundance from the tubers of Stachys 
tuberifera, which is made up of from 14 to 19 per cent. Further infor- 
mation pertaining to roots and tubers will be found in Chapter XI. 

COLLOIDAL POLYSACCHAEIDS. — Under this classification belongs the 
amylose group w^hich consist of carbohydrates with more than three mole- 
cules of monosaccharids or hexoses linked together into a condensation 
product. They are all uncrystallizable, nondiffusible and insoluble in 
alcohol ; some dissolve in water, others swell and become gelatinous, while 
a few are unchanged. The members of this group which are of the 
greatest importance in nutrition are: 



Starch 


Malto Dextrin 


Dextrin 


Cellulose 


Glycogen 


Inulin 


Lichenin 


Pectose bodies 



On hydrolysis polysaccharids split forming dextrins, disaccharids and 
monosaccharids; their general composition is indicated by (CeHjoOg)!!, 
which means that the molecules are made up of an unknown multiple of 
(CgHioOg), the constitution being unknown. 

Starch, (CqK-^o^o)^) which is very widely distributed in the vegetable 
kingdom, is found chiefly in the seeds of cereals and leguminose, as weU 
as in the roots, stems and seeds of nearly all plants. It is of great impor- 
tance as a constituent of many food materials, and as the source of dex- 
trin, maltose and commercial glucose, and many fermentation products. 



90 PKOXIMATE PKINCIPLES OF FOOD 

Starch is found stored in the seeds, roots, tubers, bulbs, and sometimes in 
the stems and leaves of plants. It constitutes nearly three-quarters of the 
solid matter of the ordinary cereal grains and at least three-fourths of the 
solids of mature potatoes. Starch occurs in distinct unchanged granules 
which differ in structure and size so that in most cases the source of 
starch may be determined, as different plants furnish different forms and 
sizes of granules. Starch granules are scarcely affected by cold water; 
on warming they absorb water and swell, finally passing into a condition 
of colloidal solution or ^ ^starch paste.' If cereal flour be made into a 
dough, the softened mass may now be rubbed on a sieve under a current 
of cold water which washes out the starch, while cellular fibrous matter 
remains on the sieve; the starch deposits slowly from the washings, and 
is further purified by treating it with water containing a small amount 
of caustic alkali. Starch forms white, amorphous, tasteless masses, which 
are peculiarly slippery to the touch and easily converted into a powder; 
it is insoluble in cold water, alcohol and ether ; when boiled with water it 
yields a white jelly which cannot be broken up as a true solution, but is a 
suspension of the swollen starch particles. When treated with hydro- 
chloric acid in strength of from 7 to 10 per cent, in cold water or 
very moderate heat more or less hydration occurs with the production 
of soluble starch. On further hydration, starch gives, first, mixtures of 
dextrin and maltose, and finally glucose only as an end product. When 
brought into contact with the saliva, the starch of foods is hydrolyzed by 
the ptyalin with the formation of dextrin and maltose ; a similar hydroly- 
sis is effected by amylopsin, the starch-splitting enzyme of the pancreatic 
juice. 

Dextrin, (CgHioOg)!!, is formed by the hydrolysis of starch. Small 
amounts of dextrin are found in resting and larger amounts in germinat- 
ing cereals. Malt is made by seeping barley in water until it germi- 
nates, and then drying it. During acid hydrolysis, dextrin is formed as 
an intermediate product between starch and maltose. Dextrin is a color- 
less or slightly yellowish, amorphous powder resembling gum-arabic in 
some respects ; it is soluble in water, does not reduce alkaline copper solu- 
tion, and the erythrodextrin is colored light wine red by iodin. It is 
extensively used in mucilage as a substitute for gum-arabic. According 
to one observer, the complete hydrolysis of dextrin yields glucose as the 
sole product. 

Glycogen, (C6Hio05)n, or animal starch, is found exclusively in ani- 
mals. It occurs in the liver, the white blood corpuscles, in many embry- 
onic tissues, and in muscular tissue. In addition to its occurrence in ani- 



CARBOHYDRATES 91 

mills, it takes the place of starch as reserve carbohydrate in fungi and 
other forms of plant life not provided with chlorophyll apparatus. Pure 
glycogen is a white, starch-like, amorphous substance insoluble in alcohol. 
It forms an opalescent solution with water, gives a port wine color with 
iodin, and by hydrolysis is converted into glucose. 

Glycogen occurs in the lower as well as in the higher animals, and in 
all parts of the body, but is especially abundant in the liver, where it is 
found deposited in the cell substance but not in the nucleus. It is dis- 
tinguished from starch by the property of swelling up and being appar- 
ently dissolved in cold water. The solution, however, is never clear, but 
is opalescent and indilfusible. In this respect it resembles the gummy 
colloid carbohydrates, such as dextrin, arabin and bassorin. It is, 
however, more complex than the dextrin, as the latter is obtainable by 
the decomposition of glycogen. The storage of glycogen in the body is 
promoted by rest as well as by liberal feeding. The stored glycogen is 
used up rapidly during active muscular work. The amount of glycogen 
in the liver depends to a great extent upon the condition of nutrition of 
the animal. 

Lichenin, (C6Hio05)n+H20, is a peculiar starch found only in Ice- 
land moss and algae. It is not soluble in cold water, but, like ordinary 
starch, it swells up in hot water, and forms a jelly on cooling. It is im- 
pervious to diastatic ferments, such as ptyalin and amylopsin; but it 
yields dextrose when boiled with dilute acids. 

Maltodextrins exist in malted cereals and other food substances, being 
produced from starch by the action of malt enzyme. Maltodextrins are 
more soluble in alcohol than dextrin, and they have an apparent composi- 
tion of maltose, 34.6 per cent, and dextrin, 65.4 per cent. Maltodextrin 
is very slowly diffusible, but passes through a septum unaltered. Accord- 
ing to Herzfeld, the maltodextrins are intermediate substances between 
achroodextrin and maltose, the latter being fermentable by ordinary 
yeast, while the maltodextrins are not fermented by it. 

Cellulose, {QJl-^ff)^)n, is a carbohydrate or a group of carbohydrates 
of complex character. It constitutes the fundamental material of which 
the cellular membrane of vegetables is built up, and forms, therefore, the 
largest portion of the solid parts of every plant ; it is well adapted to this 
purpose on account of its insolubility in water and most other solvents, 
and its tough and flexible nature. Some parts of vegetable matter, for 
instance, cotton, hemp and flax, are nearly pure cellulose. Cellulose is 
insoluble in water, ether, alcohol and dilute acids and alkalies, but dis- 
solves in an ammoniacal solution of cupric oxid. In the alimentary 



92 PROXIMATE PRI:N^CIPLES OF POOD 

canal of man it resists the action of ptyalin and amylopsin, but undergoes 
partial decomposition under the influence of bacterial enzymes with the 
production of methane and carbon dioxid. 

Inulin (C36H62O31) is a starch-like substance in solution in the sap 
sap of many plants, but especially in tubers of dahlia, Jerusalem arti- 
choke and potato, roots of chicory, dandelion and lichens. It is obtain- 
able from these sources as a white powder consisting of spheroidal crys- 
tals, soluble in hot water, sparingly soluble in cold water. It stands in 
the same relation to levulose as starch does to dextrose. Inulin is not 
readily acted upon by the enzymes; diastase has little influence over it; 
ptyalin and amylopsin do not convert it into sugar; it is, however, con- 
verted into sugar by the action of dilute acids and is probably digested. 
Although inulin is readily hydrolyzed to levulose by acids, it is not at- 
tacked by the saliva or pancreatic juice. Sandmeyer(ll), after feeding 
80 grams of inulin to a diabetic dog, recovered 46 grams in the feces, and 
Mendel and E'akaseko(12) found that little if any glycogen resulted from 
feeding inulin to a rabbit. Mendel and Mitchell (13) injected inulin in 
the peritoneum of a rabbit and recovered most of it in the urine. 

Pectose Bodies are found in most fruits, in a few roots, and in some 
vegetables. They are peculiar substances which under certain conditions 
cause fruit juices to gelatinize. Their constitution and composition can- 
not very well be ascertained because they cannot be separated from the 
associated cellulose without disorganizing them or changing their sub- 
stance. The subject has been treated at some length in Chapters XI and 
XIII, to which the reader is referred. Pectose is insoluble in water, 
alcohol and ether, but it is converted by the digestive juices and acids 
into pectin, which is soluble in water. Pectin is the chief substance in 
fruit and vegetable jellies. The nutritive value of pectin and pectose 
bodies is probably about the same as that of starch. The pectins are con- 
sidered by some authorities to bear the same relation to pentoses as dex- 
trins do to hexoses. 

HYDROCARBONS 

Hydrocarbon derivatives of various kinds occur in foodstuffs. They 
contain carbon, hydrogen, usually some oxygen, but ordinarily no nitro- 
gen, phosphorus or sulphur as essential ingredients, though, as we shall 
see, they enter into various combinations with compounds of these ele- 
ments. The amount of oxygen in the fats which make up an important 
portion of this group is relatively small, leaving their combining capacity 
with oxygen high. This fact gives them a fuel value double that of 



HYDKOCAKBONS 93 

either proteins or carbohydrates and enables them to supply a correspond- 
ingly large energy vahie to the animal economy. 

Classification of Hydrocarbons. — ^Hydrocarbon derivatives form the bulk 
of fat, butter, suet, oils and other fatty substances. While carbohydrates 
are chemically hydrocarbon derivatives, their distinctive chemical com- 
position and their physiological importance render it convenient to de- 
scribe them as a distinct group. 

TERPENES. — Relatively few of the compounds of carbon and hydrogen 
without oxygen appear in foods. Among the volatile or essential oils, 
however, are found a number of terpenes of the composition CioH^y. 
These include <i-limonene, in lemon, kiimmel (caraway), dill and celery; 
Or and (f/-terpinenes in cardamon; phellandrene in. fennel; carvone in 
kiinunel and dill; and camphene in ginger. 

ALCOHOLS. — When one or more of the H atoms of the hydrocarbon 
molecule is replaced by OH radicals, we have an alcohol, the particular 
alcohol being determined by the nature of the original hydrocarbon, as 
well as the number and position of the replacing hydroxyls. Ethyl alco- 
hol (C2H5OH) occurs in small quantities in muscle and other organic 
substances, but is chiefly the product of alcoholic fermentation of sugars. 

It has been well said that the chief effect of food is nutritive, while 
the most important action of ethyl alcohol is pharmacodynamic. Never- 
theless, alcohol so resembles food in its nutritive effects and is so com- 
monly ingested as a dietary ingredient and as a beverage, that we must 
include it here. Whether it is in fact a food depends upon the definition 
of food. Under the definition laid down by the Federal Food and Drugs 
Act, June 30, 1906, it is so classified. Aside from ethyl alcohol we must 
mention the higher alcohols which are more toxic the higher we ascend in 
ihe series. Fusel oil includes propyl, butyl, amyl and hexyl alcohols and 
is a common accompaniment of ethyl alcohol when the sugar used for 
fermentation is derived from starch. Amylic alcohol is an important con- 
stituent of the oil of mustard and horseradish. 

Triatomic Alcohols. — Glycerin is a triatomic alcohol which, being 
joined to fatty acids, forms neutral fats such as stearin, olein, etc. Glyc- 
erin is a product in the digestion of fat and a by-product in the manu- 
facture of soap. There is no satisfactory evidence of the value of 
glycerin as a foodstuff, but there is evidence to show that any excess of 
glycerin, which is consumed for therapeutic purposes, is not utilized in 
the system, but is decomposed into propionic and formic acids. 

Cyclic Alcohols. — This classification includes the sterols. These, 
in general, belong to the terpene group, are solid at ordinary temperature 



94 PKOXIMATE PKINCIPLES OF FOOD 

and yield terpenic acids on oxidation. They include cholesterol, isocholes- 
terol, stercorin (koprosterin), phytosterol, cetyl alcohol, myricyl alcohol, 
etc. Menthol may well be included in this group. In all probability 
some of the cholesterol of food is absorbed, but whether it is of service to 
the body is not clear. Since herbivora contain cholesterol, not phytosterol 
which they ingest, it seems that the body has the capacity of forming its 
own cholesterol, leaving it uncertain whether that absorbed from food 
furnishes any of the body supply. 

Inositol^ a hydroxy-derivative of hexahydrobenzene, is included with 
the cyclic alcohols as a matter of convenience and is mentioned because 
it is found in heart muscle. 

ALDEHYDS. — Acetic aldehyd occurs in new spirits, especially when 
distillation is intermittent. Citrol, an acylic terpene of the formula 
C9H15.CHO, is of food interest because of its presence in the oil of 
citrous fruits, such as lemon, lime, orange, etc. Cyclic aldehyds are 
found in essential oils, as cinnamic aldehyd in oil of cinnamon. Furfurol 
and possibly other aldehyds of this type appear in pot-still spirits, being 
formed by the action of the fire (and possibly also by the acid) on the 
pentose of the woody fiber and gum contained in the husks, etc., sus- 
pended in the mash. They do not exist, except possibly in the minutest 
traces, in "patent spirits," which is a point of distinction. Benzaldehyd 
is formed from the glucosid amygdalin in bitter almonds, in cherry laurel 
and in fruit kernels. Vanillin, the active constituent of the vanilla bean, 
is methyl protocatechuic aldehyd. 

ORGANIC ACIDS.— Organic acids arise by oxidation from both simple 
and complex compounds of carbon and hydrogen. Those derived from the 
alaphatic series, formula CnH2n+2> have the general formula CnHonOs; 
those derived from the olefins, CnH2n, have the general formula 
CnHgn-sOg. A list of the usual acids follows: 

CnHzn+iCOOH CnHznOHCOOH 

Formic HCOOH Glycollic CH2OHCOOH 

Acetic CH3COOH Lactic C2H4OHCOOH 

Propionic CzHgCOOH CnH2n(COOH)2 

Butyric C3H7COOH Oxalic acid (C00H)2 

Valeric C4H9COOH Succinic acid C2H4(COOH)2 

Caproic CfiHiiCOOHi CnH2n-i(OH) (COOH)2 

Caprylic CyHieCOOHi Malic C2H30H(COOH)2 

Capric C9H19COOH1 CnH2n-2(OH)2(COOH)2 

Laurie CnH23COOH Tartaric C2H2(OH)2 (C00H)2 

Myristic C13H27COOH CnH2n-20H(COOH)3 

Palmitic CisHsiCOOH Citric C3H4(OH) (C00H)3 

Stearic C17H35COOH Aromatic acids 

CnHjn-iCOOH Benzoic CeHsCCOOH) 

Oleic CnH33COOH Salicylic C6H4(OH) (COOH) 

Erucic C21H41COOH Gallic C6H2(OH)3(COOH) 

Tannic C14H10O9 



HYDROCARBONS 



95 



Organic acids are found as constituents of various foodstuffs. Some 
of these acids are formed by fermentation. Others are present in fruits, 
and in the process of ripening are progressively utilized in the forma- 
tion of ethers, aldehyds and carbohydrates. Others are combined to 
form salts of potassium, sodium, calcium, and are mingled Avith their 
phosphates, sulphates and carbonates. 

Formic /I ci<^ occurs in small proportions in honey. It is miscible with 
water and alcohol, possesses a pungent odor and piquant taste. It decom- 
poses carbonates and forms salts called formates. 

Acetic Acid occurs in combination with alcohols in the esters of essen- 
tial oils in many plants and is formed in the fermentation of many sub- 
stances by the enzyme of mycoderma acetic, as in the manufacture of 
vinegar, which is discussed in the chapter on beverages and stimulants. 
It forms salts or acetates with sodium, potassium and other metals. The 
acetates occur normally in certain vegetable juices. 

Butyric Acid is formed by the fermentation of lactic acid, a process 
known as butyric fermentation, and to some extent by the putrefaction of 
proteins. It exists as butyrin in butter to the extent of 6 per cent, but 
was not obtained in a recent investigation by distillation in vacuo, for 
which reason it has been suggested that its occurrence is due to decompo- 
sition of protein matter remaining in the butter. The acid possesses a 
pungent and disagreeable smell. 

Gly collie Acid occurs in unripe fruits as the result of the oxidation 
of acetic acid and is in turn converted into glycollic aldehyd, which forms 
carbohydrates by polymerization. 

Lactic Acid occurs in many plant juices. It is formed from sugar by 
what is known as lactic fermentation, which causes the presence of this 
acid in sour liquids and many sour fermented substances, as in sauer- 
kraut, etc. It arises in consequence of the fermentation of lactose, as in 
the souring of milk in cheese-making, and ripening of cream; from the 
fermentation of various sugars, starch and othcv substances in the pres- 
ence of nitrogenous animal matter. It is a thick, sour, hydroscopic, 
colorless, strongly acid liquid and mixes in all proportions with water and 
alcohol. 

Oxalic Acid is widely distributed throughout the vegetable kingdom 
either as oxalic acid or oxalate. In the chapter on vegetable foods will 
be found a table giving the percentage of oxalic acids in a great many 
fruits and vegetables. It is formed from the oxidation of many sub- 
stances such as glycerol, glucose, sucrose, alcohol and fats. It is also of 
considerable physiological interest in its origin and destination. When 



96 PKOXIMATE PEINCIPLES OF FOOD 

ingested in food, it circulates into the animal tissues either as a free acid 
or salt. It undergoes oxidation to carhon dioxid and water. It is a ques- 
tion, however, whether the oxalic acid taken into the food is all excreted 
as carbon dioxid and water, or whether any of it is normally excreted 
unchanged. 

Succinic Acid is a normal constituent in unripe fruits, especially in 
grapes, lettuce and other vegetables, and occurs in some animal secre- 
tions. It likewise is formed in the bacterial decomposition of carbo- 
hydrates and proteins, and as one of the metabolic products of yeast dur- 
ing alcoholic fermentation of sugar. 

Malic Acid occurs in the juices of many fruits, as apples, currants, 
cherries, grapes, pineapples, blackberries, etc. It may be extracted from 
these fruits or it can be prepared synthetically. In combination with 
bases as malates, it occurs in sweet cherries, apples, rhubarb, gooseberries, 
grapes and strawberries. 

Tartaric Acid occurs in the vegetable kingdom, especially in grapes, 
and some other fruits, largely as acid potassium tartrate. During the lat- 
ter stages of the fermentation of grape-juice a considerable quantity of 
"argol" or crude cream of tartar is deposited, since it is no longer soluble 
in the alcohol-containing liquid. 

Citric Acid occurs in the free state in many fruits, especially in 
lemons and tomatoes. It also occurs as citrates in lemons, limes, oranges, 
quinces, currants, gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, cherries, cran- 
berries, and other sour fruits. Citric acid is also constantly present in 
the milk of man and other mammals. Citric acid is absorbed from the 
alimentary canal and partly decomposed and excreted by the kidneys as 
sodium carbonate. 

Benzoic Acid occurs as the free acid in cranberries and some other 
fruits. 

Salicylic Acid is reported to occur as a methyl-ester in currants, cher- 
ries, plums, grapes, crabapples, strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, 
mulberries, peaches, apricots, pineapples and oranges. 

Gallic Acid is widely distributed in vegetables, especially in the form 
of compounds of tannins with glucosids. It occurs in tea leaves, nutgalls, 
claret, etc. 

Tannic Acid occurs in gallnuts and in all kinds of bark, in coffee, tea, 
etc. All tannins are amorphous and possess strongly astringent proper- 
ties. Some are probably ester compounds of gallic acid with glucose. 

The acids of oils and fats will be described under their esters. 

ESTERS.— Chemically these are combinations of alcohol and acid and 



HYDROCARBONS 97 

may be viewed as salts of the acids in which the alcohol radical occupies 
the position of the metal or base of inorganic salts. 

The Volatile Esters. — These include some of the most delicate 
substances, such as fruit essences and flavors; also some of the essential 
oils which give odor, flavor and pungency to plants, flowers and seeds. 
Of the volatile esters, or compound ethers, which also are used for artifi- 
cial flavors, we may mention ethyl acetate, amyl acetate (pear oil), ethyl 
butyrate (pineapple oil), amyl butyrate, ethyl valerate, amyl valerate 
(apple oil), ethyl caprate (enanthic ether) (grape oil, wine oil, cognac 
oil), ethyl pelargonate (quince oil), ethyl benzoate, methyl salicylate 
(wintergreen oil, birch oil), and ethyl salicylate. 

Most imitation flavors are a mixture of such esters made synthet- 
ically. Thus, an imitation raspberry flavor may contain ethyl acetate 5 
parts, amyl acetate 1 part, ethyl butyrate 1 part, amyl butyrate 1 part, 
ethyl benzoate 1 part. Such mixtures as these constitute the flavors of 
many imitation beverages. Among the natural esters are also to be men- 
tioned allyl sulphid, which gives the odor to garlic^ and allyl isothiocya- 
nate, a constituent of black mustard seeds, known as oil of mustard. 

Oils and Fats. — These constituents are very extensively distributed 
throughout both the animal and vegetable kingdoms. 

Fats exist as a definite group of chemical compounds. The name ap- 
plies equally to the solid and liquid fats. However, for convenience we 
will refer to fats that are liquid at 20° C. as "fatty oil" or "oils," some- 
times called "fixed oils" in contradistinction to volatile or essential oils. 
All the fats are practically insoluble in water, and all except those of the 
castor oil group are sparingly soluble in cold alcohol, but dissolve readily 
in petroleum ether and mix in all proportions with light petroleum oil. 
All pure fats are colorless, tasteless and odorless substances, which ab- 
sorb on paper, forming a permanent grease spot. The taste and color of 
fats are frequently due to foreign substances, often produced by slight 
decomposition which has taken place in the fat. 

The fatty bodies are found sparingly in seeds, fruits, and sometimes 
in the leaves and roots of plants; abundantly in all animal tissues and 
organs, especially in bone marrow, subcutaneous and intermuscular tis- 
sues, around the various organs, and in the omentum of the abdominal 
cavity. 

All true fat^ are esters of the triatomic alcohol glycerin C3H5(OH)3> 
in which the three hydrogen atoms of the hydroxyl are replaced by three 
univalent radicals of the higher members of the fatty acids, whose com- 
position has been indicated above. Thus palmitic acid exists in the fat 



98 PKOXIMATE PEINCIPLES OF FOOD 

ester tripalmatin, C3H5(OCi5H3iCO)3, stearic acid in tr'istearin, 
C3Hg(OCi7H35CO)3, and oleic acid in triolein, €3115(0017113300)3, 
these being the glycerids that make up the bulk of animal fats. The 
acids higher in the acid series yield triglycerids that are harder and with 
a higher melting point. 

Mixed triglycerids, that is, compounds of different acids with the 
same molecule of glycerin, have been separated from natural products. 
Thus, from mutton and beef fat a distearopalmitin, a dipalmitostearin 
and a dipalmito-olein have been separated; also similar mixed glycerids 
from olive oil. From butter the mixed triglycerid oleopalmitobutyrin has 
been obtained, and from cocoa butter mixed triglycerids of oleic and pal- 
mitic with stearic or myristic acids, respectively. 

Natural fat contains more than a single glycerid. In lard and tallow 
the glycerids are chiefly those of stearic and palmitic acid, but some olein 
is also present. Thus, cooling lard to the point of crystallization and ex- 
pressing the mother liquid yields lard oil, consisting largely of triolein. 
Also from beef tallow oleo oil is similarly obtained and constitutes the 
oleomargarin of artificial butter. Natural fats are not pure glyceride, 
but hold in solution sterols such as cholesterol, phospholipins such as 
lecithin, and other constituents in small amounts. 

Animal fat consists both of fat absorbed from the food ingested, and 
also of that formed from carbohydrates and from proteins of the food. 
The character of the fat of warm-blooded animals appears to vary with 
its position in the body. One observer concludes from experiments with 
pigs "that the thick layer of subcutaneous fat on the back, where it was 
not thoroughly warmed by the blood and therefore had an average tem- 
perature considerably below that of the interior of the body, was richer 
in unsaturated compounds, and had a lower melting point than the fat 
of the body as a whole ; while the fat from animals which has been grown 
in a warm room or which had been heavily jacketed so that the skin was 
not exposed to the air, contained nearly the same composition as in the 
interior of the body." 

Fat from herbivora as a rule is much harder than fat from carnivorouf 
animals, and land animals have a harder fat than the marine animals, 
and as a rule all warm-blooded animals possess fats which are decidedly 
harder than those found in fish. Butter fat differs from body fat in con- 
taining fat acids of lower molecular weight, especially those fairly char- 
acteristic of butter. 

The acids entering into the formation of glycerin esters of oils and 
fats present the following features : 



I 



HYDROCARBOlSrS 99 

Caproic acid occurs as a glycerid to the extent of about 1.2 per cent 
in butter, and also in cocoanut and palmnut oils. 

Caprylic and capric acids are in the gljcerids of cow's and goat's 
milk, and also of cocoanut and palm oil. 

Laurie acid abounds as a glycerid or fat in the seeds of the spice bush. 
It is sparingly present in butter, cocoanut fat, palm fat and some other 
vegetable oils. 

Myristic acid is obtained from nutmeg butter, cocoanut oil, and oc- 
curs in traces in butter, lard, wool-fat and cod-liver oil. 

Palmitic acid occurs abundantly in most fats, both animal and vege- 
table, including many fatty oils. It is also found in several waxes, for 
instance, beeswax and spermaceti. The general properties of palmitic 
acid are nearlv identical with those of stearic acid, but it has a lower 
melting point. 

Stearic acid occurs as a glycerid most abundantly in the solid fats, 
chiefly tallow, and especially in vegetable fats having high melting 
points, such as shea butter and cocoa butter. It is hard, white, somewhat 
glossy, solid, without odor or taste. 

Salts of the various acids described may be found by saponification 
of the fats with caustic alkali. These constitute the soaps. The alkali 
palmitates and stearates are soluble in water, but on dilution of their 
solution undergo hydrolytic dissociation. It is the liberation of alkali by 
this action that gives to these soaps their particular cleaning value. In 
the presence of calcium and magnesium salts in water (hard waters), the 
formation of the insoluble calcium and magnesium soaps occurs and the 
cleansing action of the soaps is not realized. 

Hypogeic acid occurs in peanut and in maize oil as a glycerid. Its 
isomere, palmitoleic acid, forms about 6 per cent of the acids of cod-liver 
oil. These are unsaturated acids, and accordingly their glycerids are not 
as hard as the corresponding saturated compounds. Like oleic glycerids, 
at ordinary temperature they are oils. 

Oleic acid is unsaturated, in virtue of which it is oxidized more read- 
ily than the corresponding saturated acids. It also readily forms addi- 
tion products. It is a constituent of most fats, especially of fat oils, 
and as a rule is in larger quantities than any other fatty acid. Olive oil, 
for instance, is mainly oleate of glycerin. Pure oleic acid is colorless and 
odorless, insoluble in water, and soluble in alcohol to a greater extent than 
the saturated acids. It crystallizes near the freezing point. 

Erucic acid has been found to be present in cod-liver oil. 

Waxes. — These are esters of sterols and fatty acids, the natural wax 



100 PEOXIMATE PRINCIPLES OF FOOD 

frequently containing more or less free sterols. They contain no glycer- 
ids. Beeswax, carnauba wax, spermaceti and sperm oil are familiar ex- 
amples. They saponify with difficulty and have little food value. 

Esters of cholesterol and isocholesterol occur in certain fats of animal 
origin, but they have been little studied. They are believed to exist in 
wool-fat, while a silicic ester has been found in the feathers of birds. 

Phospho Esters. — Phytic acid. This is a phosphoric acid ester of 
i-inositol and occurs in the outer covering of various cereals, usually as 
the calcium and magnesium salts, known by the name phytin. It is this 
substance which gives to whole cereals their laxative action quite as much 
or more than the mere mechanical or frictional effect of the bran. The 
presence of sufficient phytin in food does much to prevent the develop- 
ment of the constipation habit. It is not a lipin. 

PhospJiolipins.- — These are esters that on hydrolysis yield both phos- 
phoric and fatty acids. The most important substances, from the point 
of view of food, are the lecithins. These are glycerids in which two of the 
hydroxyl hydrogens are replaced with fatty acid radicals, and the third 
with phosphoric acid, which in turn has one free acid hydroxyl and has 
the hydrogen of the third replaced by the base cholin. It will be seen 
that in this complicated structure different lecithins exist according to the 
nature of the fatty acids entering into the composition. 

Lecithins are important ingredients of egg yolk, and, indeed, occur 
in every living cell. These substances play an important part, together 
with certain sterols, in determining the physical processes of cells, thus 
contributing in an important way to vital phenomena ; and they are fur- 
ther concerned in the phenomena of immunity, so they are of considerable 
importance in the dietary. Other phospholipins are cephalin of brain 
tissue, cuorin of beef -heart, sphingomyelin of brain tissue, and jecorin 
of liver. 

GlycoUpins. — These substances, also termed cerebrosids, yield on hy- 
drolysis fatty acids and a carbohydrate, generally glucose or galactose. 
They contain nitrogen but no phosphorus. Cerebrin of nerve tissue is a 
familiar example. They are, of course, of particular physiological value 
to the function of animal tissues in which they exist, but it is not known 
that they add to food value or are of any food importance other than their 
small energy equivalent. 

SulphoUpins. — These are fatty substances that yield on hydrolysis 
fatty acids and sulphuric acid; the term is applied to little understood 
substances of brain tissue. It is not known that they have any particular 
food value. 



i 



PIGMENTS 101 

Aminolipins. — These substances contain aminonitrogen and fatty 
acids but no phosphorus. Krinosin and bregenin are names applied to 
substances of this nature obtained from brain tissue, but their exact com- 
position and their physiological or possible food importance remain to be 
investigated. 

The terpenes, sterols, fatty acids, volatile esters, oils, fats, waxes, and 
the various lipins above indicated have been grouped under the term 
lipoids, on account of their solubility in alcohol-ether and their greasy 
feel and insolubility in water. Owing to the evident unsuitability of this 
term, the name lipins has been recently proposed. While this grouping 
is convenient, the properties enumerated do not aiford any fundamental 
basis for classification, and the grouping based upon chemical structure 
as employed in this chapter, we believe is on the whole to be preferred. 

It is, of course, recognized that any classification of substances that 
present so many structural features as the organic foodstuffs is somewhat 
arbitrary, since the same substance will present features that justify its 
inclusion under more than one head. If this is kept in mind and it is 
recalled that the position of particular substances may be on this account 
to some extent optional, much confusion will be avoided. 



PIGMENTS 

We have not attempted to include the food pigments in the scheme of 
classification, since their diversity of composition would compel us to dis- 
tribute them rather widely. However, hemoglobin is mentioned under 
the chromoproteins and it is suggested that chlorophyll is closely related 
to it. The work of Willstatter and his pupils confirms the close analogy 
between hemoglobin and chlorophyll, though differences are found in de- 
tails. Four pigments are found in the chloroplasts of the leaf; 



Chlorophyll (a) 


C,,-E,,0,-N,-Mg 


Chlorophyll (b) 


C,,H,„0,N,Mg 


Carotin 


04oH5e 


Xanthophyll 


C40H56O2 



To this may be added lycopin, a pigment which is isomeric with carotin 
of the tomato. 

The former term anthroxanthins has been recently reapplied to pig- 
ments, usually called flavones and xanthones, that constitute the yellow 
pigments of plants. Of these, apigenin occurs in parsley and celery in 



102 PEOXIMATE PRINCIPLES OF POOD 

the form of the glucosid, apiin, and quercitin is present in the skin of 
onions. 

Closely related are the anthocyans, red, violet and blue pigments of 
blossoms and fruits. Chemically, these are glucosids. The pigments of 
cranberry and blue grapes belong to this class. 

In the animal kingdom the yellow or orange-red pigments are grouped 
under the term lipochromes. These, however, are closely related to the 
vegetable pigments. Thus lutein of egg yolk is isomeric with xantho 
phyll. The yellow pigment of butter fat is mainly carotin, though xan- 
thophyll is also present. These pigments are taken up from the food of 
those animals, the cow eating the green grass, absorbing the carotin and 
xanthophyll, holding the former by its combination with albumin in the 
blood serum while the latter is eliminated through the bile, the carotin 
together with a little xanthophyll eventually finding its way into the milk. 



INORGANIC SALTS 

Foodstuifs contain a notable quantity of mineral matter which re- 
mains as ash when the foodstuff is burnt. It is to be understood, how- 
ever, that within the vegetable and animal tissues the salts are to a con- 
siderable extent in some form of association with the organic constituents, 
such as loose protein salt combinations or existing as a part of the organic 
constituents, as sulphur and phosphorus of the protein molecule and 
bases combined with organic acids. The ash, therefore, does not ade- 
quately indicate the food contents of saline matter simply as such. These 
very associations indicate how valuable the ash constituents are to the 
system and hence what actual importance they are in the dietary. 

Eight elements, namely, sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, 
iron, chlorin, sulphur and phosphorus, remain either wholly or in part 
in the ash of foodstuifs. Of these, sodium and chlorin exist in the food 
largely as sodium chlorid. By the use of salt it seems that the variety of 
food products that may be eaten is extended. Potassium occurs in animal 
food largely as phosphate and in vegetables in organic combination. 
Magnesium and calcium occur in both animal and vegetable food both in 
organic combination and as phosphates. Sulphur in food is found very 
largely as a constituent of organic compounds, especially certain proteins, 
as egg albumin, myosin of muscle, and gliadin, although sulphates are 
found, particularly in certain waters. Phosphorus occurs as phosphates 
and in a considerable variety of organic combinations of which we have 



INORGANIC SALTS 103 

elsewhere noted nucleic acid of the cell nucleoproteins, phytin or bran and 
lecithins of cellular tissue in general and the tissues of the nervous sys- 
tem in particular. Iron is an important constituent of food, appearing 
chiefly in organic combinations. Milk contains iron, but in insufficient 
amounts for a growing body, while it is relatively abundant in lean beef, 
eggs, oatmeal, whole wheat, beans, cabbage, spinach and some other foods. 
The average dietary contains from 12 to 19 milligrams per person per 

day. 

An important phase of the inorganic foodstuffs is the balance of acid- 
forming and base-forming elements in the dietary. This is determined 
by calculating the equivalent in acid of the chlorin, sulphur and phos- 
phorus of the diet and the equivalent in alkali of the sodium, potassium, 
magnesium and calcium; the excess of acid or alkali indicating whether 
the food is an acid-forming or a base-forming diet. Acid-forming foods 
are meats and eggs and to a lesser extent grains, while base-forming foods 
are the vegetables. A diet in which the acid-forming elements predomi- 
nate is less desirable than one in which there is a balance or even a pre- 
dominance of base-forming elements. 



WATER 

For the value of water and its uses in human economy, see Chapter 
X ; for the value of water as a beverage and its various classifications, see 
this Volume, Chapter XYI, Beverages and Stimulants. 

EEFEREIsrCES 

1. Mantt. Chemistry of the Proteins, 1906. 

2. Abderhalden. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry, Lectures 

2 to 13, 1908. 

3. Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, 1914. 

4. American Physiological Society and American Society of Biological 

Chemists. 

5. Bailey. Source and Chemistry of Foods. 

6. Bunge. Text-book of Organic Chemistry. 

7. Simon, Wm. Manual of Chemistry. 

8. Chemical l^ews, 1891, ii, 260. 

9. Tibbles^ Wm. Origin and Manufacture of Foods. 

10. Abderhalden. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry. 



104 PROXIMATE PRINCIPLES OF FOOD 

11. Sandmeyer. Ztschr. f. Biol., 1895, K F. xiii, 32. 

12. Mendel and Nakaseko. Am. J. Physiol., 1900, iv, 246. 

13. Mendel and Mitchell. Am. J. Physiol., 1905, iv, 245. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Armstrong. The Simple Carbohydrates and the Glueosids. 

Atwater. Methods and Results of Investigations on the Chemistry and 

Economy of Food. 
Cathcart. The Physiology of Protein Metabolism, 1912. 
Chittenden. The Nutrition of Man.^ 
Cohen. Organic Chemistry, 1907. 
Dakin. Oxidations and Reductions in the Animal Body, 1912. 

. J. Biol. Chem., 1913, xiv, 321. 

Fischer. Untersuchungen liber Aminosauren, Polypeptide und Pro- 

teine, 1906. 
FoLiN. Am. J. Physiol., 1905, xiii, 45. 
. Intermediary Protein Metabolism, J. Am. M. Ass., 1914, 

Ixiii, 823. 
Hammarsten. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry, 6th American 

Edition, 1911. 
HoLLEMAN. Text-book of Organic Chemistry, 3rd English Edition, 

1910. 
Howell. Text-book of Physiology. 
KossEL. The Chemical Composition of the Cell, The Harvey Lectures, 

1911-1912. 

. The Proteins, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., 1912, xxiii, 65. 

Lewkowitsch. Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils, Fats, and 

Waxes. 
LiEBiG. Complete Works on Chemistry, 1856. 
. Theorien des Eiweisstoffwechsels nebst einigen praktischen 

Konsequenzen derselben, Ergebn. d. Physiol., 1911, xi, 418. 
LusK. Elements of the Science of E'utrition. 

. J. Am. Chem. Soc, 1910, xxxii, 671. 

. Phlorhizin Glycosuria, Ergebn. d. Physiol., 1912, xii, 315. 

Mann. Chemistry of the Proteids, 1906. 

Mendel. Nutrition and Growth, Harvey Lectures, 1914-15. 

. J. Am. M. Ass., 1915, Ixiv, 1539. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 105 

Osborne. The Vegetable Proteins, 1909. 

. Die Pflanzenproteine. Ergebn. d. Physiol., 1910, x, 47 

to 215. 

. Chemistry of the Proteins, The Harvey Lectures, 1910-1911. 

and Mendel. Feeding Experiments with Isolated Food Sub- 



stances. 
Plimmer. Chemical Constitution of the Proteins, 1908. 
Rose. Laboratory Handbook of Dietetics. 
Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Stiles. Nutritional Physiology. 
Van Slyke. The Proteins, New York M. J., 1912, August 10 and 17, 

xcvi, 257; 329. 



CHAPTEE IV 

DESCRIPTIO]^ AND rUNCTIO:N^S OF THE DIGESTIVE 

OKGANS 

S. W. S. Toms, Ph.G., M.D. 



The Alimentary Tract: Mouth — Palate, Teeth; Pharynx; Esophagus; 

Stomach; Duodenum; Small Intestine; Large Intestine. 
Digestive Glands: Salivary Glands — Parotid, Submaxillary, Sublingual; 

Pancreatic Gland; The Spleen; The Liver; The Gall-bladder. 



Primarily, digestion has for its aim the separation of the elements of 
growth and repair from the aliments and their preparation for absorption 
into the circulation. The process is very complex, and is both mechanical 
and chemical; it is accomplished mainly through the action of certain 
soluble ferments known as enzymes. 

Digestion is an essential factor in the life of every form of animal 
organism, no matter how low we descend in the zoological scale. Some 
form of digestion is essential in all, since they must be able to take from 
their environment those elements that are requisite for their maintenance. 
They must give off those substances termed waste products that are no 
longer fit for use, for only by this exchange of elements outside of their 
own organisms are they able to live, grow, and reproduce their kind. 

In the higher grades of animal life, as in the articulata, the number 
of organs concerned in the process of digestion is increased, and in direct 
ratio the various stages and acts in the whole process are multiplied. In 
their bodies is a long tube-like canal, in some parts much folded on itself, 
containing along its course, both inside and out, numerous glands which 
pour out secretions into the canal to aid in the process of digestion. At 
the beginning of this tube there is an apparatus for crushing or grinding 
the solid parts of food. Closely associated with this apparatus are the 
terminal or absorbing structures of the system of blood-and-chyle vessels 

107 



108 ru:N^CTiois^s of the digestive orgai^s 

which assimilate and absorb the digested food products, thus permitting 
them to circulate throughout the entire body, carrying energy and nutri- 
tion to every part of the organism. 

In the vertebrata are found modifications and many forms of devel- 
opment dependent upon the class of animal, and even in mammalia there 
are distinct differences, as the animal may belong to one of the following 
classes — insectivorous, carnivorous, herbivorous, or omnivorous. 



THE DIGESTIVE APPARATUS OF MAN 

Man is the highest in the scale of mammals. He is omnivorous, and 
his digestive apparatus is adapted to disintegrate and prepare for diges- 
tion, assimilation and absorption all kinds of food. In man the digestive 
apparatus, termed the alimentary tract, includes the mouth, teeth, stom- 
ach, duodenum, the small and large intestine and the glands of the ali- 
mentary system. 

THE ALIMENTARY TRACT 

The alimentary tract in man is a convoluted tube beginning at the 
mouth and ending with the anus, composed of mucous membrane, muscu- 
lar tissue and serous membrane. The first lines the canal throughout its 
entire length, giving to the interior its characteristic smoothness and red- 
ness. In this lining membrane, in the submucosa, are located some of the 
glands whose secretion aids digestion. The alimentary canal measures 
from thirty to thirty-two feet in length and may be divided into several 
parts; (a) the mouth, including the teeth, (b) the pharynx, (c) esopha- 
gus, (d) stomach, (e) duodenum, (f) jejunum, (g) ileum, (h) colon, 
(i) anus. 

The Mouth. — The mouth is an oral cavity situated at the beginning of 
the alimentary tract. This cavity is formed by the lips in front, the pharynx 
behind, and the cheeks at the sides. The roof of the mouth is formed by 
the hard palate; below is the floor of the mouth upon which rests the 
tongue. The cavity of the mouth, excepting the teeth, is everywhere in- 
vested with a highly vascular mucous membrane, composed largely of 
squamous epithelium. Conical papillae are for the larger part very 
minute and concealed beneath the epithelium. The lips are separated by 
an oval fissure. They are composed of various muscles converging to and 
surrounding the oval fissure. The cheeks have a corresponding composi- 
tion, the principal muscles being the buccinators. 



THE DIGESTIVE APPARATUS OF MAN 



109 



Beneath the mucous membranes of the cheeks and lips there are a 
number of racemose glands, communicating with the mouth through their 
respective ducts. In the lips they are called labial glands ; in the cheeks 
buccal glands. Their function is to secrete mucus and an enzyme. 

THE PALATE. — There are two parts of the palate — a hard and a soft^ 
The hard palate is deeply vaulted and lined with smooth mucous mem- 
brane, except anteriorly, where it is roughened by a series of transverse 



Thyreoid cartilai 
Trachea 



Left flexure of oesophagus 
Aortic arch 



Right flexure of oesophagus 



escending aorta 



Hiatus oesophagus 
(Esophagus, pars alTd. 

Lesser curvature 

Pars pylorica 

Descending duodenum 

Inferior duodenui 




Fundus of stomach 



Greater curvature 



Bifurcation of aorta 



Fig. 5. — Esophagus, Curvatures of the Stomach and the Situation of the Pars 
Pylorica, the Descending and Inferior Duodenum. 



ridges. The soft palate is a reduplication of the mucous membrane en- 
closing a fibromuscular layer, containing racemose glands. The soft pal- 
ate hangs obliquely from the posterior portion of the hard palate and 
forms a freely movable partition between the mouth and the posterior 
nasal orifices. 



110 



FUNCTIOJSrS OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS 



(Esophagus 



THE TEETH.— The teeth, in form, structure and number, vary in dif- 
ferent animals; this is markedly shown in the carnivora and herbivora. 
Among mammalia, and particularly, in man, the teeth are developed in 
two sets; (1) called the temporary or milk teeth, 20 in number, 10 in the 
upper and 10 in the lower jaw; (2) the second set or permanent teeth, 
32 in number, 16 in each jaw, viz : 4 incisors, 2 canines, 4 bicuspids and 
6 molars. The main body of a tooth is composed of dentine, a hard sub- 
stance resembling bone, physically and chemically. This encloses the 
pulp cavity and gives shape to the tooth. It consists of about 28 parts of 
organic matter and 72 parts of earthy material. The surface of a tooth 
is covered with enamel, the hardest of all organized substances known. It 
consists of 3 parts of organic matter and 97 of earthy matter, principally 
calcium phosphate. 

The Pharynx. — The pharynx is a funnel-like cavity, running from the 
base of the skull to the level of the fifth cervical vertebra, where it ends 
in the esophagus. There are 7 openings communicating with the 

pharynx; the 2 posterior 
nares; the 2 eustachian 
tubes, the mouth and the 
esophagus. The walls of 
the pharynx are musculo- 
membranous. The interior 
is lined with a soft, red, 
mucous membrane contain- 
ing many glands. 

The Esophagus. — The 
esophagus is a continuation 
of the digestive tract, of 
w^hich the pharynx is the 
upper part. It is 9 inches 
long, an inch in diameter. 
Fig. 6.— The Normal Stomach. This illustration and extends from the lower 
(from Gray's "Anatomy"), though too short in end of the pharynx to the 
its long axis, is a fairly good diagrammatic out- cardiac end of the stomach 
line of the normal stomach. That part of the ,-rp. „v ^pi i 

stomach above where the esophagus enters is )^^^' ^)' -L tie esopliagUS 
almost always filled with gas when the stomach is a nearly straight canal, 
is viewed on the fluoroscopic screen. The relative narrowest at its commence- 
lengths of the curvatures, the shape and position ^^^^ ^^^ gradually en- 
of the pars pylorica, the pyloric sphincter and t -l i 

the dilated first portion of the duodenum, which larges. It has three coats : 
forms the cap. are fairly well represented. an outside muscular, a 




THE DIGESTIVE APPARATUS OF MAN 



111 



Circular layer 



Longitudinal layer 



\ 



fibrous, and an inner or mucous coat. The inner coat contains minute 
papillir and is covered by sqiiamous epithelium. 

The Stomach — The stomach is a pyriform dilatation of the alimentary 
canal and forms a pouch, lying in the epigastric and hypogastric regions, 
about five-sixths being in the median line. It is approximately twelve 
inches long, four in vertical diameter, and somewhat less anteropos- 
teriorly, weighing about five 
ounces and hohling normally 
from five to eight pints. It 
has two orifices, cardia and 
pylorus; two surfaces, an- 
terior and posterior; and 
two borders, the greater and 
lesser curvatures (Fig. 8). 
Its large end is called the 
fundus, the small end the 
portio pylorica. In this 
organ some of the most im- 
portant chemical changes in 
the food take place; it is 
here converted into a gray- 
ish brown soup-like mass. 
From the stomach the food 
passes into the small intes- 
tine, where the nutrient ma- 
terials are separated from 

the waste residue, the latter passing on into the large intestine to be 
expelled from the body (Fig. 9). 

The stomach and the large and small intestines are located below the 
diaphragm in the abdominal and pelvic cavities, differing from that part 
of the digestive tube above the diaphragm, which is practically a straight 
tube, while the intestine is much folded and convoluted. 

The Small Intestine. — The small intestine is about twenty-five feet 
long ; the short first or upper portion is the duodenum, the next two-fifths 
form the jejunum, and the rest the ileum. The wall of the gut is very 
thin, and is composed of four layers or coats. The serous coat (external) 
is peritoneum, and surrounds the jejunum and ileum completely, except 
along its narrow mesenteric border. The muscular coat consists of two 
layers; externally longitudinal fibers and internally circular fibers, the 
latter being three times the thicker. The submucous coat consists largely 




Fig. 7. — The Longitudinal Fibers of the Mus- 
culature OF the Stomach. (Morris' "Hu- 
man Anatomy.") 




Fig. 8. — Orifices of the Peptic Glands of the Stomach. (Flint's "Physiology.") 
A — Peptic gland from the middle portion of the stomach: 1, excretory canal; 2, 2, 2, 

the three principal branches of the gland; 3, 3, 3, secondary branches filled with 

rounded cells. 
B — Peptic gland from the pyloric portion: 1, excretory canal; 2, 2, the two principal 

branches; 3, 3, terminal culs-de-sac. 
C — Mucous gland from the pyloric portion: 1, excretory canal; 2, 2, the two branches; 

3, 3, 3, 3, 3, secondary branches; 4, 4, 4, small, terminal racemose glands. 




Fig. 9. — The Gbeateb and Lesser Curvatures of the Stomach. 
(Morris' "Human Anatomy.") 

112 



THE DIGESTIVE APPARATUS OF MAX 



113 



of areolar tissue and is more closely connected with the muscular coat; 
in it are found the lymphatics, blood vessels and nerve plexuses. 

THE DUODENUM.— The duodenum is an inverted U-shaped tube, ten 
or twelve inches long and from an inch and a half to two inches in diame- 
ter. It begins at the pyloric end of the stomach and describes a loop 
ending at the duodeno-jejunal angle, where it becomes the jejunum. In 
direction it follows one of three types: (1) angular or circular, peculiar 
to infants less than seven years old, in which the terminal part rises as 
high as the origin; (2) and (3) U-shaped or V-shaped, found in adults. 
The first portion, known 
as the hepatic curvature, 
is about an inch and a 
half long, movable at its 
origin, but firmly fixed 
at its end. The hepatic 
curvature is on the level 
of the upper edge of the 
body of the first lumbar 
vertebra; its general di- 
rection is upward and to 
the right and backward, 
being nearly horizontal 
and transverse when the 
stomach is empty, but 
nearly anteroposterior 
when it is full. It passes 
under the quadrate lobe 
of the liver and neck of 
the gall bladder, where 
it bends downward, be- 
coming the second or descending portion, which lies to the right of the 
first two or three lumbar vertebrae, then crosses the fourth lumbar verte- 
bra. It lies to the left of the spinal column, but in front of the great 
vessels. The duodenum is held in place by its peritoneum and ligaments, 
but chiefly by the ducts — from the gall bladder and pancreas, together 
with its arteries and their fibronervous investments — and by the muscle 
of Treitz. 

The Large Intestine. — The large intestine is five or six feet long and 
extends from the end of the ileum (cecum) to the anus ; its capacity is 




Fig. 10. 



The Duodenum in its Anatomical Rela- 
tions. (Allan's "Anatomy.") 



114 



ru:N"CTioNS or the digestive OKGAiirs 



about four quarts and its diameter varies from one inch to two and a half 
inches. It is differentiated from the small intestine by its larger size, 



NASAL CAVITY 

PALATE'--u^vi7/ 
MOUTH CAVrnf^M^. 

TONGUE 



NASAL PHARYNX 

ORAL PHARYNX. 
LARYNGEAL PHARYNX 



^SPLEEN 



BILE AND 

PANCREATIC 

DUCTS 



RIGHT COLIC 
FLEXURE 



DUODENUM 




LEFT COLIC? 
FLEXURE 



Fig. 11. — Diagram of the Alimentary Canal, Stomach, Liver, Pancreas and tub 
Large Intestine. (Morris' "Human Anatoin3\") 

sacular form, the presence of the appendices epiploicse, and by the longi- 
tudinal muscular bands. It begins in the right iliac fossa and passes 



"\ 



THE DIGESTIVE APPARATUS OF MAN 115 

upward to the under surface of the right lobe of the liver; this part is 
eight inches long and is known as the ascending colon. Here it bends 
(hepatic flexure) sharply forward and to the left to become the transverse 
colon. This portion is about twenty inches long. From the hepatic flex- 
ure it passes transversely to the left in an arch whose convexity is down- 
ward and forward, and ends in a sharp bend downward, making what is 
known as the splenic flexure. The descending colon, eight and a half 
inches long, begins here, and becomes the sigmoid flexure at the crest of 
the ilium. The sigmoid colon begins at the upper crest of the ilium and 
passes down into the left iliac fossa and ends at the brim of the pelvis, 
becoming the rectum. The rectum passes down on the posterior wall of 
the pelvus and bends backward around the coccyx to end at the anus. Its 
total length is about eight inches. 

The larg'e intestine has four coats ; the serous coat is external, and is 
formed by peritoneum. The muscular coat is next, consisting of two 
layers of fibers ; externally the fibers run lengthw^ise of the gut. The next 
layer is formed of the circular constricting transverse bands or tenia coli. 
The submucous coat is next and also has a bed for the mucosa. It consists 
of areolar tissue, and contains blood vessels, nerves and lymphatics. The 
mucous coat is the internal lining membrane of the gut. 

The mucous coat is thick and red at the upper part of the gut, but 
paler and thinner below; on its outer surface is the muscularis mucosae, 
a layer of unstriped muscle fibers. The inner surface presents a shaggy 
appearance, owing to the presence of the intestinal villi. In its different 
parts are found villi, valvulse conniventes, lymph follicles and true glands. 

DIGESTIVE GLANDS 

Outside of the intestinal canal, but connected with it, are a number 
of glands emptying their secretions into the canal by small ducts; the 
larger of these glands are the salivary, opening into the mouth, and the 
liver and pancreas, opening into the first fold of the small intestine. 

The true intestinal glands are of two kinds : Lieberkiihn's follicles or 
crypts are small tubes formed everywhere in the mucous membrane. 
Bruno's (or duodenal) glands are small, compound, tubular glands found 
usually in the submucosa, and limited to the duodenum and upper part of 
the jejunum. They are possibly a continuation of the more highly spe- 
cialized pyloric glands. 

The intestinal lymph follicles occur in tw^o forms as follows : the Soli- 
tary Glands, resembling lymph nodes, found chiefly in the lower ileum; 



116 FUNCTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE OKGANS 

they are small, whitish in color, or very vascular and filled with lymph cor- 
puscles. Each is surrounded by the crypts of Lieberklihn. The Peyer's 
patches are aggregations of solitary glands which make up the circular 
or oval patches, between twenty or thirty in number, an inch and a half 
to two inches wide, and from a half to four inches long. They are largest 
and most numerous in the lower two-thirds of the ileum. 

Although digestion in its entirety, as it occurs in the alimentary canal, 
is in its nature very complex, yet there are three natural divisions of the 
process based upon the changes as they occur in the (a) mouth, (b) in 
the stomach and (c) in the intestines respectively. 

For the sake of a clearer understanding of the physiological change': 
and alterations in foodstuffs, whether mechanical or chemical, it will be 
well to refer briefly to the anatomy of the organs of the different parts 
of the digestive tube, explaining the function they fulfill in the process 
of digestion. The fact must not be lost sight of, that these divisions of 
the digestive system are arbitrary and that no sharp line can be drawn a;, 
the various stages, since all parts, structures and functions work in har- 
mony and have one common goal — the dissolving of the food so that it 
can be absorbed into the circulation. 

Glandular Organs of Digestive Tract — The most important glandular 
organs of the digestive tract are as follows : 



I. 


The salivary glands: 




parotid, 




submaxillary, 




sublingual. 


11. 


The pancreatic gland. 


III. 


The spleen. 


lY. 


The liver. 



THE SALIVAEY GLANDS.— The largest of the salivary glands is the 
(a) parotid, weighing from a half an ounce to one ounce. It is named 
from its position near the ear, lying just below and in front of this organ. 
It extends upward as far as the zygoma, downward as far as the angle 
of the lower jaw, and inward between the ramus of the jaw and the mas- 
toid process. The duct of the parotid, called Stensen's duct, has the diam- 
eter of a crow-quill, is two inches in length, and runs forward across the 
masseter muscle to open in the mouth opposite the second molar tooth. 

(b) The submaxillary gland weighs about two drams, and is separated 
from the parotid by a layer of deep cervical fascia. It lies beneath the 
mylohyoid muscle, below the digastric muscle, and is covered by the sub- 



THE DIGESTIVE APPARATUS OF MAN 



117 



cutaneous cervical muscle and skin. It is about one-third the size of the 
parotid, and its duct (Wharton's) is about two inches in length. The 
duct opens on the side of the lingual frenum, under the tip of the tongue. 

(c) The sublingual gland, the smallest of the three, is almond-shaped 
and weighs about a dram. It lies under the mucous membrane and at the 
side of the frenum linguae in a depression on the inner side of the lower 
jaw close to the symphysis. This gland has from eighteen to twenty 
ducts, called Rivinian ducts, opening separately on either side of the fre- 
num. Two or more of these unite to form the duct of Bartholin, which 
then joins Wharton's duct. 

THE PANCEEATIC GLAND.— The pancreatic gland — the pancreas — is 
a long gland of a reddish cream color, situated behind the stomach. 
It resembles somewhat in 
structure the parotid 
gland, though softer, is 
about six inches long, an 
inch to one and a half 
inches wide, and half an 
inch to an inch thick. It 
lies transversely across Py^ 
the posterior abdominal 
wall at the level of the 
first lumbar vertebra, 
stretching from the duode- 
num to the spleen, and is 
divided into a head, neck, 
body and tail. The duct 
of Wirsung, or the pan- 
creatic duct, the size of a 
goose-quill, runs the en- 
tire length of the gland. 

Upon leaving the pancreas, the duct penetrates the wall of the duodenum 
to unite with the common bile duct, about three inches from the pylorus. 

The pancreas is an acinotubular gland, resembling the salivary 
glands. Indeed, it has frequently been called the abdominal salivary 
gland. The lobes are composed of convoluted ducts which terminate in 
alveoli or sacs which unite with other tubules and communicate with the 
main duct. The secretory cells of the pancreas are large and rounded. 
They possess an outer portion which is nearly or quite homogeneous, 
staining readily with dyes; and an inner portion, very granular, which 




Fig. 12. — The Duodenum Opened, Showing the 
Valvule Conniventes, and the Opening op 
THE Common Bile Duct. The duct of the pan- 
creas is also represented in greater part of its 
course, a, duodenum; ft, pancreas; c, common 
bile duct; d, pancreatic duct; e, opening of the 
common duct in the intestine. 



118 FUISTCTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE OEGAISTS 

does not stain easily. When the pancreatic gland is inactive, its cells are 
heavily charged with granules. When active, the cells swell and press 
outward against the basement membrane; later they diminish in size as 
the granules pass out through the now opened lumen and so leave a large 
clear zone. The presence of these numerous small granules marks the 
presence, in the cells, of a zyniogen, termed trypsinogen, which is the pre- 
cursor of trypsin, the active digestive ferment of the pancreatic juice. 

THE SPLEEN. — The spleen is the largest ductless gland and lies ob- 
liquely in the left hypochondrium between the fundus of the stomach and 
the diaphragm ; above and to the left of the kidney and above the splenic 
flexure of the colon, and opposite (with its long axis nearly parallel to) 
the ninth, tenth and eleventh ribs. In shape it is half -ovoid. Its con- 
sistency is comparatively soft, and its color is purplish. It is ^ve inches 
in length, four inches in breadth, and from one to two and a half inches 
in thickness. Just what role the spleen plays in metabolism is as yet 
undetermined. It is supposed by some workers to originate the leuko- 
cytes, and this manufacture reaches a pronounced activity when the or- 
gan is hypertrophied, as in leukocythemia. The spleen, from its power 
to dilate, serves as a reservoir of blood for the portal system, especially 
for the blood vessels of the stomach. Many of the purin bodies are found 
in the spleen, as xanthin, hypoxanthin and uric acid. jTones of Baltimore 
has shown that the spleen contains a digestive ferment adenase, the fer- 
ment which converts adenin into hypoxanthin. Ott, in his text-book on 
physiology, says he has demonstrated experimentally that an extract made 
from the spleen when injected into an animal will excite active peri- 
staltic movements. 

THE LIVER.— The liver is the largest gland in the body. Its shape is 
ovoidal or that of a triangular prism, with its long diameter transverse. 
Its convex surface is against the diaphragm ; its concave surface is in con- 
tact with the stomach and right kidney. It is held in place by the left 
and right lateral ligaments, together with the suspensory ligament. The 
organ weighs from three to four pounds, and is a dark reddish-brown. 
It is composed of ^yq lobes, five fissures and fi\Q ligaments. The right 
portion of the liver is much larger than the left. It is also thicker and 
extends lower in the abdomen and higher in the thorax. The liver has 
been termed the storehouse for the human body. Its excretory apparatus 
includes the bile canaliculi and ducts, hepatic and cystic ducts, gall-blad- ' 
der and common bile duct. The bile canaliculi begin between the liver 
cells and unite into larger ducts, which finally unite into two main ducts 
for the right and left lobes respectively; they emerge at the transverse 



THE DIGESTIVE APrAKATUS OE MAiSl 119 

fissure. The hepatic duct is formed by the union of the right and left 
bile ducts at the right end of the transverse fissure. Then, descending in 
the right margin of the lesser omentum, in front of the vena cava and to 
the right of the hepatic artery, it joins the cystic duct, forming the com- 
mon bile duct. 

THP] GALL-BLADDER.— The gall-bladdei* is pear-shaped, three or four 
inches long and over an inch wide; it presents a fundus, body and neck, 
and acts as a natural reservoir for storage of bile. The hepatic duct by 
joining the cystic duct forms the common bile duct knov^^n as the ductus 
communis choledocus. This is the largest of the three, and is three inches 
long with the diameter of a goose-quill. It joins the pancreatic duct, and 
empties its secretions into the duodenum through a common opening. 
The composition of human bile is approximately as follows : 

Water 982 

Solids : Mucin and pigments 1.5 

Bile-salts Y.5 

Lecithin and soaps 1.0 

Cholesterin 0.5 

Inorganic salts 7.5 — 18 

TOTAT. 1,000 



The normal color of bile is due to two bile-pigments: hiliruhin and 
hiliverdin, which give a range of color from reddish-brown to grass-green. 
Bile does not contain either bilirubin or biliverdin in a free state, but 
combinations of these two substances: as salts, bilirubinates, and bili- 
verdinates of the alkalies. 

THE USES OF BILE IN THE INTESTINES.— During the fasting state not 
a drop of bile enters the intestine. Meat extractives, fat and the products 
of digestion of egg albumin set up a free excretion of the fluid. The 
presence of bile in the intestine stimulates the active excretion of the 
pancreatic enz^nnes, especially the fat-splitting ones, the action of which 
is increased fifty per cent. 

Bile is principally an excrementitious waste from the liver. It aids 
in the emulsification of fats and contributes to their solution by saponi- 
fication brought about by the alkalies of the biliary fluid. Another 
property of this excrementitious biliary fluid is a regulator of intestinal 



120 ru:N"CTiONS of the digestive oegae^s 

putrefaction and due to its power of dissolving cholesterol serves as an 
excretory vehicle for ridding the body of toxins and metallic poisons. 

Bile renders the chyme alkaline, and aids the action of the pancreatic 
juice which is most effective as a digestive agent in an alkaline medium. 
It also favors absorption, by its alkalinity permitting of more ready 
osmosis. 



I 



CHAPTEK V 

MECHANICAL AND CHEMICAL PKOCESSES OF DIGESTION 
IN THE ALIMENTAKY CANAL 

Mastication. 

Insalivation: Stimulation and Action of Enzymes in the Mouth. 

Deglutition. 

Nerve Action in Digestive Processes. 

Secretion and Action of Digestive Juices: Saliva; Juices of the Stomach 
and Intestine — Secretion, Quality and Quantity of Secretion, Cor- 
relation of Functions by Chemical Action of Juices. 

Functions of the Stomach: The Stomach as a Reservoir; Maceration 
of Food in the Stomach — Movements of the Stomach, Action of the 
Pylorus; Sterilization of Food; Regulation of Temperature; Absorp- 
tion of Food. 

To make food of use in the body it must be digested, and the process 
of digestion is a very complicated one. It has been said that digestion 
is augmented by good food skillfully prepared, pleasant to look upon, 
inviting to the taste and smell, ingested in comfortable surroundings 
among pleasing, cheerful companions. Under adverse conditions, pure 
food improperly prepared will cause digestive disturbances. 

Mastication of Food. — Mastication of food is a voluntary act whereby 
the food is ground up by the teeth, aided by the tongue, palate, cheeks 
and lips. The bulk of the work is accomplished by the biting and 
grinding movements of the lower teeth against the upper. 

From the peculiar articulation of the lower jaw with the skull, it 
is capable of performing three primary movements, together with com- 
binations of same: upward and downward, side to side, forward and 
backward. The muscles concerned in these movements are the masseter, 
temporal, and internal pterygoids which raise the jaw. The inferior 
maxillary division of the fifth nerve innervates them. The depression 
of the lower jaw is brought about mainly through the action of the 
digastrics. The side to side movements are produced by the separate 
action of the external pterygoids. Their united contraction permits the 

121 



122 PEOCESSES OF DIGESTION' 

forward and backward movement of the lower mandible. The up and 
down biting movement is necessary for the front teeth; the side to side 
motion is a necessary process of chewing. The tongue and cheeks act 
like the hopper of a mill and force the food between the grinding facets 
until it is properly comminuted for swallowing. 

Mastication is of prime importance when solid and fibrous foods 
are eaten, to prepare them by comminution for the fermentative action 
of the various digestive fluids. When foods are improperly masticated, 
severe forms of dyspepsia are likely to follow. 

^*The time consumed in mastication," says Cannon, "varies with the 
appetite, with the age, the demands of business, the quantity of food in 
the mouth, and especially with the nature of the food — whether gummy, 
moist or dry, crisp or tough (1). The amount of mastication given to 
any food is related to the readiness with which a mass is comminuted, 
insalivated and formed into a bolus, and is not related to the degree 
of salivary digestion. For this reason soft, starchy food is little chewed, 
whereas hard or dry food, which is usually not starchy in nature, 
requires much chewing to be ready for swallowing" (2). 

The secretion of saliva, which softens the hard particles in food, is 
promoted by the movements of the jaws in chewing the food. Ptyalin, 
a constituent of saliva, starts the digestion of starches. The weight of 
a bolus of food in the mouth when ready to be swallowed varies in man 
between 3.5 and 6.5 grams, and of this, 1.5 grams will be saliva(3). 
The mass suitable for normal mastication has an average volume of 
about 5 c.c. Not all animals chew the food as finely as man commonly 
chews it. The dog, cat, and other carnivorous animals swallow pieces 
of meat so large that the esophagus seems to have difficulty in accom- 
modating them, and yet these animals seem to have no instinct to divide 
their food into smaller and more readily manipulated fragments. It 
would seem, therefore, that nature intended meats to be bolted. The 
large lumps are merely moved about the mouth of carnivorous animals 
until they are coated with saliva and are then forced backwards into 
the gullet. In man, also, the food may be swallowed in such haste that 
it is barely covered with the saliva which usually lubricates the passage 
of food through the esophagus. Masses of food from 10 to 12 milli- 
meters in diameter may thus enter the stomach with scant evidence that 
the teeth have in any way afPected them. The ability to bolt food in 
unbroken masses can doubtless be cultivated. 

The thorough comminution of food into fine fragments and the 
process of mixing it thoroughly with saliva so that it might be sufii- 



ITsTSALIVATIOK 



123 



ciently moist to be swallowed were formerly considered the most impor- 
tant results of mastication. Recent researches have revealed less obvious 
results. According to Pavlov and Cannon, the voluntary act of chewing 
has been found to have much significance for the proper initiation of 
gastric digestion. "During mastication substances of pleasant taste are 
brought in contact with the gustatory organs of the tongue and cheeks, 
and odors released from the separated food rise to the olfactory region 
of the nose. Through the pleasurable sensations aroused by these stimuli 
the gastric juice is retlexly started flowing in preparation for gastric 
digestion. Not only in laboratory animals, but also in human beings, 
this remote effect of pleasurable sensation in the taking of the food has 
been demonstrated" (4). Hornborg(5) and other research students report 
cases of gastric fistulse in children in which the secretion of gastric juice 
was observed when agreeable food was chewed, whereas the chewing of 
indifferent material was without influence. Pavlov and Edkins have 
definitely proved by experimentation that this initial "psychic juice" 
may be a prime condition 
for continuance of gastric 
secretion. According to 
Cannon (6), another remote 
effect which may result 
from the chewing of agree- 
able food is the develop- 
ment in the stomach of a 
condition of tonic contrac- 
tion — a state of sustained 
shortening of the circular 
muscles which nicely adapts 
the capacity of the organ to 
the contents, whatever 
amount is swallowed. The 
churning movement of the 
stomach mixes the food with 
the gastric juice and pushes 
the ch^Tne onward into the 

duodenum. This movement is dependent on the tension developed in the 
muscular wall as a result of its tonic state. 

Insalivation. — Insalivation is a separate and distinct act, performed 
during mastication, whereby the food is mixed with the secretions of 
the salivary glands. By this means, the dry, hard portions of food are 



Oblique fibres 




Tela submucosa 



Fig. 13. — Circular Fibers of the Musculature op 
THE Stomach. 



124 PEOCESSES OF DIGESTION 

moistened and softened, the better to fit them for swallowing; at the 
same time the mucous membrane is moistened and lubricated, allowing 
free movement of the food during the chewing or grinding act. A fever 
patient attempting to swallow a dry cracker affords an ample illustration 
of the mechanical value of saliva during the act of mastication. 

Saliva is a mixed secretion, a slightly alkaline, viscid and frothy fluid. 
It is derived from the parotid, sublingual and submaxillary salivary 
glands and the mucous glands of the oral cavity. Among the formed 
elements are epithelial cells, salivary corpuscles and bacteria. The pres- 
ence of mucin is responsible for its stringy and turbid consistency. 
Saliva has a specific gravity of 1.002 to 1.006. 

STIMULATION AND ACTION OF ENZYMES DUEING INSALIVATION.— 
The function of the saliva in the process of digestion has of late received 
considerable attention at the hands of physiological chemists. Max- 
well (Y), writing from the physiological laboratory of Melbourne Uni- 
versity, suggests that colloidal starch solutions might absorb pepsin in 
the same way as charcoal and other powders, and hence inhibit the 
activity of this enzyme. On the other hand, saliva, by hydrolyzing 
starch, might prevent this absorption of pepsin by the colloidal carbo- 
hydrate, serving thus as a material aid to digestion. Maxwell's experi- 
ments support this view. He finds that peptic digestion is delayed in 
the presence of colloidal starch solutions through absorption of the 
enzyme. 

Between the amylodextrin and erythrodextrin stage in the disruption 
of the starch molecule the absorption of pepsin is lost. Unboiled starch 
does not hinder the action of pepsin; this is a significant fact in connec- 
tion with the dietetics of herbivora. Further, cooked farinaceous foods, 
as rice, potato, bread and porridge, inhibit peptic digestion if not first 
subjected to salivary digestion. It seems clear, therefore, that ptyalin 
in human saliva plays a considerable part in aiding gastric digestion by 
hydrolyzing colloidal starch, which otherwise would absorb pepsin. 
These observations are of great interest, as they may throw light on the 
value of active malt extracts and malted foods in dietetics, and particu- 
larly in the feeding of infants. It certainly seems an odd physiological 
fact, as Maxwell points out, that an enzyme should be secreted in the 
mouth only to be presently destroyed in the stomach, and furthermore, 
that a more efficient diastase is present in the secretion of the pancreas. 
The experiments, too, would appear to afFord further evidence of the 
undesirability of the presence of unaltered starch in the infant's diet. 

The term "ase" is applied to an enzyme of colloidal structure and is 



INSALIVATION 125 

suffixed to the name of the substance upon which the enzyme exerts its 
specific action. Accordingly the word amylase denotes a starch splitting 
enzyme, while a fat splitting enzyme is known as a lipase. Invertase, 
found in the small intestine, splits saccharose into glucose and fructose. 
Moreover, the large intestine contains the Bacillus coli communis which 
splits up lactose. Lipase or steapsin converts fats into fatty acid and 
glycerin. 

The proteoses are intermediate products between native proteins and 
peptones. They are only slightly diffusible; they are not coagulated by 
heat, but can be precipitated. A characteristic of their precipitation is 
that they can be dissolved by heating, but reappear when the solution 
cools. They are all soluble in weak salt solutions or dilute acids or 
alkalies. They are slightly diffusible through animal membranes. 

The proteases break up proteins and convert them into peptones and 
the peptones into amino-acids. The proteases are pepsin, trypsin, erepsin 
and enterokinase. 

According to Ott(8), the stereo-isomeric form of an enzyme is re- 
sponsible for the manner in which it hydrolyzes the sugar Alpha-methyl- 
glucosid and Beta-methylglucosid which are products of glucose and 
methyl-alcohol. If these two compounds are tested by the enzyme of 
yeast only the Alpha modification is hydrolyzed, while the Beta modifi- 
cation remains in statu quo. Hence, as Emil Fischer has stated, there 
must be a special ^^key to each lock," the ferment being the lock, and its 
substrate the key. For if the key does not fit exactly to the lock no 
reaction is possible. The process of hydrolysis is quickened by the 
working in unison of the ferments. 

Temperature greatly influences the amylolytic action of saliva. A 
low temperature checks or completely arrests its action, while an increase 
of temperature greatly accelerates its activity. However, after 40° C, 
which is considered the optimum point, has been reached, a further rise 
of temperature becomes injurious. The action of saliva is physical and 
chemical. Its physical action has been discussed. To ptyalin is due 
its chemical or amylolytic action, for ptyalin belongs to the amylolytic 
or starch splitting enzymes. When mastication or insalivation of food 
is going on, the starch is first split into dextrin and maltose, while the 
dextrin is subsequently converted into maltose; erythrodextrin is acted 
upon more quickly than the other kind of dextrin termed achroodextrin. 
The conversion of erythrodextrin into maltose gives a red color reaction 
with iodin ; if achroodextrin is used no color with iodin results. 

The amylolytic action of saliva is most effective at about the tern- 



126 PKOCESSES OF DIGESTION 

perature of the body; its action most thorough in a neutral medium. 
Alkali present in a small amount does not deter its action to any appre- 
ciable extent, but a relatively very small quantity of free acid will abso- 
lutely inhibit its action. It may be stated that the normal condition of 
the mouth is, to a slight extent, alkaline or neutral. Swallowed saliva 
converts starch into sugar in the stomach and this process continues for 
a certain time, the time ranging perhaps from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
The transformation then ceases, owing to the fact that the amylolytic 
action of ptyalin of the saliva is stopped by the hydrochloric acid secreted 
by the peptic glands of the stomach. The acid which is at first poured 
out neutralizes the alkalinity of the saliva which is combining with the 
protein of the food. When free acid appears in excess, as has been said 
before, ptyalin is destroyed and the amylolytic action is arrested alto- 
gether. Recent researches have proved that the transforming continues in 
the stomach for some time after its entry, the time ranging from fifteen to 
thirty minutes — that is, until (a) the alkalinity of the saliva has been 
neutralized and (h) until a trace of free hydrochloric acid remains in 
excess. Free hydrochloric acid does not occur in the stomach until about 
three-fourths of an hour after a meal. 

The researches of Pavlov have made clear several mooted points. He 
has demonstrated by practical experiments on the submaxillary ducts of 
the dog that the secretion of saliva is a reflex action. He found that the 
sight of food, its smell, the chewing of meat or acid, or even the intro- 
duction of sand into the mouth, caused such a reflex action as ^^the mouth 
to water." Similar experiments on the parotid secretion gave very dif- 
ferent results. These showed that the parotid reacts to some extent when 
dry meat or bread is offered or placed in the mouth. Dry food in the 
form of meat powder was found to stimulate a free flow of parotid 
secretion in a hundred dogs, while moist food excited but little secretion 
of saliva. The importance of the psychical element with respect to the 
secretion is shown by observation of the gastric juices, as is also the 
adaptive capacity of the secretory process to the character of the food 
masticated and to the requirements of the animal. 

Deglutition. — Swallowing occurs in the pharynx and esophagus. Here 
the masticated mouthful is formed into a large moist bolus. The sym- 
metrical contraction of the musculature of these parts aids in the rapid 
passage of the food downward into the stomach. This act is usually 
said to comprise three stages. 

In the first stage, in which the act is voluntary and usually uncon- 
scious, the masticated food passes between the tongue and palate and is 



DEGLUTITION 127 

forced backward through the fauces to the entrance of the pharynx. The 
second act of swallowing is the most complicated, because the food must 
pass the posterior opening of the nasal cavity and the upper opening of 
the larynx without entering these orifices. The three constrictors by 
their contractions are the chief means by which the necessary motive 
power for the execution of the act is supplied. Thus the temporary 
closure of the nasal and laryngeal openings is effected. The elevation 
of the soft palate and uvula in combination with the contraction of the 
posterior pillars of the fauces occlude the nasal openings; the contrac- 
tion of the aryteno-epiglottic folds performing a similar service for the 
laryngeal opening. In the third act an undulatory or peristaltic con- 
traction of the esophagus occurs. The second and third acts of degluti- 
tion are involuntary. The movement through the esophagus is termed 
peristaltic or vermicular. 

From the anatomical description of the organs of digestion given in 
the preceding chapter, and from what has been said above, it would 
appear that the act of swallowing of solid and of liquid foods is muscular 
and not governed by the law of gravity. Many animals drink ^^up-hill," 
so to speak, and some jugglers can drink when standing on their heads. 
The fact is well known that a thirsty hunter will lie flat on his stomach, 
head down, with his mouth in the water of a stream many inches lower 
than his stomach and satisfactorily quench his thirst. 

On the other hand. Cannon (9) agrees with the conclusions aimed at 
by Kronecker and Meltzer as the result of their observations. These 
were to the effect that water, holding bismuth of subnitrate in suspension, 
was drunk by the subject and at each swallowing the liquid was projected 
rapidly through the pharynx and well down into the thoracic esophagus 
before being lost to view. 

Hertz, quoted by Cannon, has recorded that he was able, in fourteen 
normal persons, to trace the passage of bismuth salt, suspended in milk, 
all the way to the stomach. After having been "shot rapidly down the 
greater part of the esophagus," the food was forced slowly into the stom- 
ach. Hertz went on to say that in the head-down position fluids ascended 
the esophagus at approximately one-third the rate of their descent in 
the upright position. So far as food is concerned, few will be found to 
disagree with the conclusion of Cannon "that the act of swallowing varies 
in different animals and with different consistencies of food." With 
regard to the swallowing of liquids, the suggestion of Meltzer, with which 
Cannon agrees, appears to meet the situation. That is whether liquids 
invariably descend at a rapid rate depends on the amount swallowed, the 



128 PEOCESSES OF DIGESTION 

force of the swallowing movement and the degree of contraction of the 
gullet. 

The act of swallowing inhibits the vagus center, for deglutition 
increases the pulse rate. The influence upon the heart beat is dependent 
upon neither the amount, character, nor temperature of the food swal- 
lowed; it is influenced only by the reflex act and the consummation of 
other acts. Likewise, it also exerts an inhibitory influence upon respi- 
ration. This is very evident during rapid drinking, in an animal with 
a tracheotomy tube. 

Nerve Action in Digestive Processes. — The reflex center for the salivary 
secretion is situated in the medulla oblongata, near the origin of the 
ninth and seventh cranial nerves. The afferent nerves are the iierves of 
taste — the chorda tympani and the glossopharyngeal and sensory branches 
of the trigeminus; the efferent nerves are the auriculotemporal and chorda 
tympani, 

Marckwald(lO), referred to by Cannon, is of the opinion that the 
part of the nervous system to which the afferent impulses travel is placed 
in the floor of the fourth ventricle, above the center of respiration. Howell 
points out that "it is assumed that there is a special nerve center, the 
swallowing or deglutition center, which has been located in the medulla 
at the level of the origin of the vagi.'-' However, this writer is somewhat 
skeptical as to the definite existence of such a center. If we agree with 
Marckwald and others that the center of deglutition is in the medulla, 
and there are many and strong points in favor of the theory, we may also 
assume with Cannon "that from this center the motor impulses pass out, 
which, distributed by a variety of nerves, produce the remarkably rapid 
and orderly sequence of movements that give the bolus its initial push 
and continue it on its course." 

The motor fibers concerned in this perfectly coordinated and complex 
mechanism comprise the hypoglossal, the trigeminal, the glossopharyngeal, 
the vagus and spinal accessory. 

Wassilieff(ll) made an observation upon himself to determine the 
most sensitive areas for inducing a deglutition reflex and to ascertain, 
if possible, the location of special spots in the mouth and pharynx. Was- 
silieff "swallowed a small sponge moistened in cocain solution and im- 
mediately withdrew the sponge by means of a thread attached to it. He 
found that his ability to swallow was for some minutes entirely lost, and 
the saliva which was abundantly secreted had to be expectorated." Many 
observers have endeavored to determine the exact area or areas in the 
pharyngeal membrane from which the sensory impulses liberating the 



SECRETION AND ACTION OF DIGESTIVE JUICES 129 

reflex usually start. Kahn is of the opinion that the location of the most 
effective areas from whose stimulation the reflex may be produced varies 
in different animals. The conclusions reached as the result of these 
experiments were that, under normal conditions of ingesting food, the 
^^sensitive spof ' can be stimulated either by liquid, buccal contents flow- 
ing back upon it when involuntary swallowing occurs, or by the more or 
less solid food masses being voluntarily pushed over the base of the tongue 
and back into the pharynx. 

Two mechanisms are necessary to control the course of a bolus of 
food along the gullet; one requires only a single afferent impulse to 
start it, the other consists of a succession of reflexes, each provided with 
an afferent path, leading to a motor discharge; thus the bolus by its 
very presence causes a contraction which forces it downward towards 
the stomach. This accessory mechanism depends on the integrity of the 
esophageal tube, and has been called the loiver reflex mechanism, and its 
activity secondary peristalsis (12). 

Secretion and Action of the Digestive Juices — We are indebted to 
Pavlov (13) and Beaumont for original researches into the physiology 
of the digestive process. It was the former who established the fact of 
psychic secretion, which we now know to be a most important factor in 
digestion. It was Beaumont who established the fact that gentle exer- 
cise aided the digestive process. 

SALIVA. — The process of digestion really begins as soon as the food 
enters the mouth, and comes in contact with the first digestive fluid — 
saliva, which exerts a mechanical chemical action, moistening and 
softening the food to render easier the task of swallowing it in the form 
of a bolus. Under insalivation the action of the enzymes found in the 
saliva have already been carefully discussed. The chemical changes 
occurring in the mouth during digestion are well worth further careful 
study. As already stated, the chief aim of digestion in the animal econ- 
omy is the reduction of the ingested food substances into a soluble and 
absorbable condition so that they can pass through the intestinal mucosa 
after terminal digestion has completed the breaking down of the protein 
and carbohydrate molecules with the saponification of the fats, ready to 
replace the cellular waste throughout the body. . 

The salivary juice also has the power to break up materials, as 
starches, into maltose, a form of sugar. The active transforming prin- 
ciple in saliva is an unorganized ferment or enzyme, to which the name 
ptyalin has been given. The conversion of starch into dextrin and 
maltose by the saliva is known as the amylolytic action. Its action is by 



130 PEOCESSES OF DIGESTION 

mere contact, as no appreciable change in quality or character is noted 
in it after its functions are performed, and so active is it that it is able 
to convert two thousand times its own weight of starch into dextrin and 
maltose. 

Juices of the Stomach and Intestines. — Secretion. — The first 
stimulus of gastric secretion originates in the mouth, causing a flow of 
gastric juice in the stomach; while the furtherance of the flow depends 
upon the action of what are known as secretagogues. 

Howell (14) holds that there are three steps in the mechanism of 
the secretion of gastric juice: (a) psychical secretion; (&) secretion 
from secretagogues contained in the food; (c) secretion 'from secreta- 
gogues contained in the products of digestion. Other physiologists hold 
to the opinion that the secretagogues, whether present in food or formed 
during digestion, act upon the pyloric mucous membrane, stimulating 
the production of a substance which they desigiiate as gastrin, and that 
this substance, after absorption into the blood, is carried to the gastric 
glands, stimulating them to greater secretion. 

Until recent years it was held that the secretion of the gastric juice was 
chiefly brought about by the mechanical stimulation of the mucous mem- 
brane of the stomach by the particles of food introduced into it. The 
elaborate and ingenious experiments of Pavlov (15), however, have 
shown that this is an error and that the chief factors concerned in bring- 
ing about the secretion of gastric juice are psychical and chemical, and 
that the mechanical action plays quite a secondary part, if indeed any 
part at all. 

It was shown later, however, independently by Popielski — a pupil of 
Pavlov — that the injection of acid into a loop of small intestine was 
followed by secretion of' pancreatic juice even after the section of both 
vagi and destruction of the sympathetic ganglion at the back of the 
abdominal cavity. 

Bayliss and Starling, experimenting along these lines, found that a 
secretion of juice was produced, even when the acid was introduced in 
a loop of the intestine entirely free from any possible nervous connec- 
tions with the rest of the body. It was evident, therefore, that the 
stimulus or message from the intestine to the pancreas which causes 
secretion of the latter must be carried, not by the nervous system, but 
by the blood stream. After repeated experimentation Starling was con- 
vinced that something must be produced in the epithelial cells of the gut 
under the influence of acid, and that this product of the epithelial cells 
was absorbed in the blood stream and was the active agent in exciting 



SECRETION AND ACTION OF DIGESTIVE JUICES 131 

the pancreas. He secured several duodeni from pigs, the mucous sur- 
faces of which were severely scraped and the scrapings pounded with 
dihite hydrochloric acid. After filtering, he injected the filtrate, pro- 
ducing a copious flow of pancreatic juice. This chemical messenger, or 
hormone, he called secretin. 

Quality and Quantity of Secretion, — Certain foods contain substances 
that apparently have the power to augment the secretion of gastric juice 
— for example, meat extract and meat juices. The various foods also 
produce gastric secretion of varying digestive qualities; for instance, 
that produced by bread is less in quantity but of greater digestive power 
than that produced by meat. The power of producing secretion is 
entirely wanting in the white of egg. The gastric juice produced by 
psychic stimulation is always of the same quality. Water constitutes 
the largest proportion of gastric juice and the daily secretion of gastric 
juice amounts to one-tenth of the weight of the body. There is little 
solid matter in the gastric juice of man and animals, considering the very 
large amount of work done by solid materials in the digestive processes. 
Of the solids present, about one-half is composed of inorganic salts ; the 
remaining portion comprises the organic fermentj or enzyme, present 
in gastric juice — pepsin. 

A normal gastric secretion, according to Howell, is a clear, thin, almost 
colorless liquid with a strong acid reaction and a characteristic odor. 
Starling, however, says the gastric juice taken from' a fasting animal is 
a pure specimen. This is quite clear, strongly acid and without smell. 
When free from admixture with food, the acid of gastric juice is entirely 
hydrochloric. Human gastric juice contains probably about 0.2 per cent 
of the hydrochloric acid. The presence of this acid is essential to diges- 
tion, because pepsin, the active enzyme of the gastric juice, requires an 
acid medium in which to act. It further contains one, and possibly two, 
enzymes, renin and lipase. Lactic acid occurs or may occur. According 
to Ott, "during digestion, lactic, acetic, butyric, and other acids are often 
present, due to putrefactive changes and the presence of bacteria." 

The following analysis of the composition of gastric juice is accepted : 

Water 9,994.40 

Organic matter 

Pepsin 3.19 

Inorganic matter 

Chlorid of sodium 1.46 

Chlorid of potassium 0,55 

Chlorid of calcium 0.06 

Free hydrochloric acid 0.20 

Phosphate of calcium ^ 

Phosphate of magnesium i 0.12 — 5.60 

Phosphate of iron ) 10.000.00 



132 PROCESSES OF DIGESTION 

'No reliable estimates of the exact quantity of gastric juice or, in 
fact, of any of the digestive fluids are obtainable and the best approxi- 
mate estimates vary greatly, according to different authorities. The 
quantity of gastric juice is sometimes estimated by the amount of pepsin 
and acid which, outside of the body, are required to digest any measured 
bulk of food. 

Lethby, in carrying out experiments along this line, estimated that 
in a twenty-four hour period the human stomach secreted 14.11 pounds 
of gastric juice and 0.44 pound of pancreatic juice. Competent physi- 
ologists regard this estimate as wholly fallacious, for the pancreatic 
juice is much more active than the gastric juice, having ten times the 
work to do, and the pancreatic gland cells outnumber the gastric cells. 
Moreover, we know that in the entire human body there are about four- 
teen pounds of blood, and it does not seem reasonable that a quantity 
of secretion equal to the whole volume of blood should be formed by a 
single organ, the stomach. If this were so it would require very rapid 
reabsorption from the stomach, otherwise it would be a continuously 
overflowing reservoir. 

Correlation of Eui^tctigns by Chemical Action of Juices. — 
According to Starling (16) a very striking correlation exists between 
the activities of the body effected by chemical means. The strongly 
acid chyme enters the first part of the duodenum. The epithelial cells 
in the mucous membrane, stimulated by the acid, immediately produce 
a certain amount of "secretin," which is carried by the blood stream to 
the cells of the pancreas and excite there the secretion of strongly alka- 
line pancreatic juice. Starling points out that as soon as sufficient juice 
has been secreted to neutralize the acid chyme, both the formation of 
secretin and the further secretion of pancreatic juice comes to an end. 
So long as the stomach contains food, the process is renewed by virtue 
of the local reflex mechanism which we have alluded to and which will 
be explained in greater detail in this chapter. So long as the contents 
of the duodenum are acid, the pylorus remains firmly closed ; as soon as 
these are neutralized the pylorus relaxes and allows the entrance of a 
further portion of chyme. Thus the secretion of secretin continues 
afresh, and the whole chain of processes goes on uninterruptedly until 
the stomach is empty and all the chyme has passed into the intestine. 

In studying the process of gastric digestion we have learned that, 
(a) the chief object of digestion in the mouth is to protect and assist 
the stomach, and (h) that the function of the stomach is to protect the 
intestine. Observations upon the results of complete removal of the 



FUNCTIONS OF THE STOMACH 133 

stomach in animals as well as in man have shown that its cooperation 
with the other organs of digestion cannot be regarded as completely 
essential to the perfect digestion and absorption of an ordinary mixed 
diet, provided the food be administered in a suitable form. 

Functions of the Stomach. — The stomach serves to perform five 
important functions; 

To act as a receptacle for the chymification of food. 
To churn the chymiiied food to a semifluid consistency. 
To partially sterilize the macerated pultaceous mass. 
To regulate the temperature of the stomach contents. 
To bring about some slight degree of absorption. 

THE STOMACH AS A RESERVOIR.— As a reservoir the stomach is indis- 
pensable, for it allows of the digestion and storing of a considerable 
quantity of food at a time. That is, it renders meals possible, obviously 
a great practical convenience. At this point the question of the length 
of the intervals between meals arises. Hutchison asks: ''Is it better to 
partake of several small meals or to consume one's daily supply of food 
at one sitting?" He answers that undoubtedly several small meals are 
far preferable to one or two very large meals and goes on to point out 
the ''one meal a day man" is at a disadvantage, because he is apt in this 
w^ay to so overburden the mechanical powers of the stomach that some of 
the constituents of the food are partially wasted ; the assimilative powers 
of the tissues being overworked to keep pace with the flood of nutriment 
which reaches them at the same time. The chief danger, then, of eating 
too much at a meal lies in overtaxing the digestive powers of the stomach. 
In the second place, the habit of eating large quantities of food at a meal 
is apt to cause dilatation of the organ. 

Hutchison emphasizes the fact that in the case of persons of feeble 
digestive powers the limitation of the quantity of food digested is of even 
greater importance. For them little and often should be the golden rule. 
The same author draws attention to the fact that there is evidence 
to show that more food is wasted by being used at once than when it 
is spread over considerable time. "The waste chiefly affects the pro- 
teins, which are the most rapidly digested of the constituents of the 
food, and is partly due to defective absorption and increased oppor- 
tunity for intestinal putrefaction. Ranke, for instance, found that if 
he ate 1,800 grams of meat at one time, the loss by the bowel amounted 
to 12 per cent, but if he ate this same amount in three meals the waste 



134 PROCESSES OF DIGESTION 

was only 5 per cent. The loss of protein must be attributed in part to 
defective assimilation." The meal hours vary greatly in different parts 
of the same country, depending largely upon convenience and habits in 
regard to work; but it is conceded that it is best to have dinner, the 
principal meal of the day, at the end of the day's work, so that compara- 
tive repose may be enjoyed after it. As a matter of actual observation, 
Voit found that 50 per cent of the day's protein, CI per cent of its fat, 
and 32 per cent of its carbohydrate was taken at dinner. 

MACERATION OF FOOD IN THE STOMACH. — The second function of 
the stonuu'h is to uuicerate the food to a semifluid form. This is partially 
accomplished by the solvent action of the gastric juice, and partly by 
the mechanical movements of the stomach walls. In stiidying the move- 
ments of the stomach one must distinguish quite sharply between the 
cardiac and pyloric ends of the organ. There is no doubt that this dis- 
tinction is not grasped as clearly as it should be. The two ends are 
distinct, both anatomically and functionally. The cardiac end secretes 
both pepsin and hydrochloric acid, the pyloric end pepsin alone; the 
former has but feeble motive power; the movements of the latter are 
frequent and powerful. 

The experiments of Beaumont(lY) confirm the above statement. 
According to this investigator the result of his experiments upon a 
human stomach as stated by Ott(8) was to ascertain that a very feeble 
peristaltic condition begins at the cardiac orifice, and proceeds towards 
the pylorus by way of the greater curvature, for only along it is any 
movement apparent. The wave grows stronger until the special band 
separating the .antrum from the fundus is reached, when the contraction 
becomes so strong that the stomach presents an hour-glass appearance. 
Immediately the entire antrum contracts at one time as a unit; so that, 
if the contents are properly acted upon by the gastric secretion, they are 
propelled by this movement through the pylorus into the duodenum. 

MovKMKNTS OF THE Stomach.— With regard to the movements of 
the stomach it must be borne in mind that the stomach not only acts as 
a resen^oir, but, as Cannon has pointed out, is also the seat of important 
preparatory stages of digestion. In fact, the movements of the stomach 
are best studied by Cannon's method of direct observation of the move- 
ments in a living unanesthetized animal by means of the Rontgen rays. 
Of course, to entirely comprehend the movements of the stomach one 
must be familiar with the anatomy of the organ. Cannon quotes from 
a paper on the subject oontributed by Cunningham to the Transactions 
of the Boynl Society of Edinhimjh in 1900. It, 1898, Williams and 



FUNCTIONS OF THE STOMACH 



135 



Cannon made observations 
on the changes of form of 
the normal human stomach 
during digestion. ''They 
found that while early in 
the process of gastric diges- 
tion, when the subject was 
standing, the grciiter curva- 
ture might reach several 
centimeters below the um- 
bilicus — the pylorus being 
then considerably below this 
level — in the later stages, 
as the stomach shortens, the 
pylorus becomes the lowest 
point The changes sug- 
gested that the contraction 
of the longitudinal and 
oblique fibers between the 
two fixed points — cardiac 
and pylorus — resulted in a 
tendency for the lumen to 
take a more nearly straight 
course between the two 
orifices." 

That the normal stomach 
is a reservoir with the py- 
loric outlet its lowest 
point, is held by some. 
This view is in keeping 
with a conception that has 
prevailed among surgeons 
who assume that, with the 
relative positions of the 
stomach and pyloric outlet 



Fig. 14. — Series of Radiographs 
Showing the Diastole and 
Systole in the Mechanical 
Movements of the Stomach. 
(Morris' "Human Anatomy.") 




136 PROCESSES OF DIGESTION" 

as stated above, the stomach is emptied by gravity drainage. Camion 
contends that this view is fallacious, pointing out in support of his 
assertion that in the "obviously normal stomach of the dog or cat the 
pylorus is at nearly the highest point when the animal is in the stand- 
ing position, and that the so-called ^normaF human stomach could 
remain satisfactory for gravity drainage only so long as a person 
held the upright position or lay on his right side." Hence the theory 
that the emptying of the stomach is regulated by gravity may be con- 
sidered erroneous. 

It has been mentioned that observation of these movements is ren- 
dered possible by the use of the x-ray. This is known as Cannon^s 
method. Bread and milk, mixed with a quantity of bismuth subnitrate 
or bismuth oxychlorid, is given to a cat in such a way as to make the 
shape of the stomach visible. When the stomach of a cat, which has 
just taken such a meal, is examined by this method, the whole of the 
food is seen to be lying in the fundus. The "transverse band" marks 
it oif from the pyloric portion. As digestion proceeds, the change of 
form in the pyloric portion is relatively slight. The first region to 
decrease in size is that part of the body of the stomach over which these 
waves are passing. As food is discharged into the intestine, the circular 
muscle of this middle region of the stomach contracts tonically until a 
tube is formed, with the full cardiac pouch at the upper end and the 
active pyloric portion at the other. Along the tube shallow peristaltic 
waves still continue. At this point the radiating fibers at the cardiac 
end begin to squeeze the contents into the tubular portion. This process, 
accompanied by a slight shortening of the tube, continues until the 
shadow cast by the contents is almost obliterated. The waves of con- 
striction moving along the tubular portion press the food onward as fast 
as they receive it from the contracting cardiac pouch, and when the 
pouch is at last emptied they sweep the contents of the tube into the 
vestibule. There the operation is continued by deeper constrictions, 
until finally nothing but a slight trace of food is to be seen in the 
cardiac end. The changes in the human stomach, as revealed by x-ray 
and post-mortem examinations, are very similar to these. 

Regarding gastric peristalsis, two views have long been held. One 
is that the stomach is completely divided at the transverse band by each 
recurrent wave; the vestibule then contracts simultaneously in all parts 
m a systolic manner. The other and newer view is that the waves sweep 
from their origin to the pylorus, and do not partition the stomach into 
two chambers. 



FUNCTIONS OF THE STOMACH 137 

Cannon presents and examines the evidence for and against these 
views, and after a careful analysis of these arguments, sums the subject 
up thus: he acknowledges that the evidence does definitely prove that 
the circular muscle at the commencement of the pyloric portion would 
be capable of powerfully contracting and completely dividing the gastric 
lumen; but he argues that what the stomach might be capable of doing 
is no proof of normal functioning, and after carefully weighing the 
evidence and judging from his o^vn observations he concludes that no com- 
plete division of the stomach at the transverse band normally exists, and 
that when it does occur it is produced as the result of unnatural stimulation. 

Stress is laid by Cannon on the importance of a correct conception 
of the movements of the pyloric portion because of its significance for 
our understanding of the functions of this part of the stomach. "If the 
transverse band completely closes the lumen, and the vestibule then 
undergoes a systolic contraction, the function of this portion must be 
mainly one of expelling the food into the duodenum. On the other 
hand, if the waves swetep without interruption over this region, deep- 
ening as they go, they may have two functions — that of expelling the 
food if the pylorus opens, and that of mixing the food with the gastric 
juice if the pylorus remains closed.'' Cannon also believes that we are 
justified in concluding that the vestibule has a more important function 
than that of merely expelling gastric contents into the intestine. Ewald 
is of the opinion that the plain fact — "that the pyloric portion secretes 
a strong digestive fluid — proves it to be an important part for the pep- 
tonizing portion of the stomach." 

Pyloric Action. — It will be apropos to introduce here the manner in 
which the pyloric portion performs this function. Cannon holds that 
absorption is concerned with the function of the churning action in the 
vestibule brought about by the activity of the vestibular mucosa aroused 
by the presence of acid, peptone or sugar solutions. While water is not 
absorbed in the stomach, glucose in concentrated solutions and proteins 
which have been exposed to gastric digestion may be absorbed in consid- 
erable amount. Owing to the fact that the mucosa of the vestibule has 
many less glands than the mucosa of the cardiac end, the absorption that 
occurs in the stomach probably takes place in the vestibule, for the epi- 
thelial surface there is most favorable to the process. Also gastric diges- 
tion is there most advanced and consequently the food is most ready for 
passage through the mucosa. Moreover, in the vestibule the mechanical 
conditions favor absorption, for the reason that the digested food is repeat- 
edly brought into very close contact with the mucous lining. 



138 PROCESSES OF DIGESTION 

In case the pylorus does net relax before an approaching wave, the 
food cannot escape and is squeezed back into a fluid, contractile pouch, 
forming an axial reflex stream towards the cardiac end. Cannon, at a 
meeting of the Boston Society of Medical Sciences, May 20, 1902, 
demonstrated a method of showing the churning action of the stomach 
and the activities of other parts of the alimentary canal by means of 
the zoetrope. lie is inclined to agree with the older writers on physi- 
ology who attributed to the pylorus a selective action. According to 
their views, the region of the sphincter was supposed to possess a peculiar 
sensitiveness which caused it to prevent the passage of undigested 
material into the duodenum. More modern investigators — Hofmeister, 
Schutz, and !Moritz — have denied the existence of any such function, 
and have asserted that antiperistaltic waves carried solid particles from 
near the exit of the stomach back to the cardiac end. However, from 
observations made by Cannon, it appears that the old writers were cor- 
rect, for the action at the pylorus as viewed by him was similar to that 
described in the older works on physiology. 

So far as he was able to judge ^'there was no antiperistalsis and the 
sphincter separating the fluids from the solids caused the solids to remain 
and undergo a tireless rubbing. The presence in themselves of peristaltic 
waves on the right half of the stomach and their absence from the left 
half indicate two separate parts of the stomach." The evidence now 
before us — and Cannon emphasizes this point — shows that these two 
parts have distinct functions. The left half is a reservoir in which the 
food is not mixed with the gastric secretion. "From this side the con- 
tents are slowly pressed out into the active half.'' The peristaltic waves 
coursing over the right half mix the food with the gastric juice, expose 
it to the mucosa of the vestibule for absorption and for the continuance 
of gastric secretion, churn the unbroken particles of food until they are 
triturated and, Anally, expel the chyme into the duodenum. 

With regard to the opening of the pylorus, Starling(18) states that 
"this depends not only on intragastric events, but also on the condition of 
the duodenum." It has been shown by Serdjukow "that the pylorus re- 
mains firmly closed so long as the contents of the duodenum are acid. If 
alkaline fluid is introduced into the stomach, this is rapidly passed into the 
duodenum. If at the same time, however, some acid is introduced into 
the duodenum by means of a duodenal flstula, the pylorus remains firmly 
dosed and no fluid passes into the duodenum until the acid which was 
placed there has been neutralized by the secretion of pancreatic juice 
and succus entericus." From this fact Starling premises that we have 



FUNCTIONS OF THE STOMACH 139 

probably in the walls of the alimentary canal a local nervous mechanism 
for the movements of the pyloric sphincter, whicii may be played on by 
impulses starting either in the stomach or in the .duodenum, probably 
by the contact of acid with the mucous membrane. Increasing acidity 
on the side of the stomach causes relaxation of the orifice, whereas 
acidity on the duodenal side causes contraction of the pyloric sphincter. 
Starling confesses that the exact parts played in this mechanism by the 
local system and by the central nervous system respectively have not yet 
been thoroughly interpreted, although there is no doubt that these move- 
ments may proceed independently of any connection with the central 
nervous system. 

Cannon has confirmed, by numerous observations, the conclusions 
reached as the result of his first observations on the stomach, namely, 
that in normal conditions gastric peristaltic waves are continuously run- 
ning, so long as food remains in the organ. 

As to the appearance of gastric peristalsis, it may be noted that this 
part of the stomach movements has received but little attention. In the 
experiments of Hedbloom and Cannon(19), *'the feeding of acid food 
was attended by especially deep and rapid peristaltic waves, while the 
feeding of fatty food which inhibits gastric secretion was usually 
attended by relatively shallow gastric waves. Although there is this 
evidence of concomitant variation of acid gastric contents and peristalsis, 
according to Cannon's views, it is not proof that the waves are the result 
of an acid stimulation. He is disposed to believe that the causal relation 
does not exist between secretion and peristalsis, but between those two 
and a common antecedent factor." So far as the movements of the 
stomach are concerned these points stand out somewhat prominently: 
first, the stomach is not merely a reservoir, but is in itself a place of 
active digestion; second, it is not emptied by gravity drainage; and 
third, the stomach is only completely divided at the transverse band 
when unnatural stimulation is exercised. It may be pointed out that 
the cardiac sac is an active reservoir which presses out its contents little 
by little as the churning mechanism in the pyloric end is ready to 
receive it. 

There is a good deal yet to be learned concerning the movements of 
the stomach and, perhaps, especially with regard to gastric digestion. 
Opinions of investigators by no means coincide on this point, or rather, 
it might be more correct to say, with regard to certain details. On the 
whole, the views of Cannon are regarded as most worthy of respect 
because he was a pioneer in methods of observing the stomach movements 



140 PROCESSES OF DIGESTION 

with accuracy. It has not been the intention of the author to deal with 
the movements of the stomach exhaustively or very closely, but rather 
to discuss the matter in a broad way, drawing attention to points which 
he has considered of the greatest importance and to the opinions of the 
best known authorities. 

STERILIZATION OF FOOD.— "Another function of the stomach is that 
of partially sterilizing the food by the antiseptic action of the hydro- 
chloric acid and the gastric juice. This action, however, is not a power- 
ful one and some organisms, such as those that form acids, seem to 
escape it altogether. There is reason to believe that the same is true 
of at least some of the commoner pathogenic organisms — notably the 
tubercle bacillus." Hutchison further states: 

"The sterilizing power of the stomach must vary greatly according 
to the period of digestion and the nature of the food. It probably 
reaches its maximum towards the later period of digestion when hydro- 
chloric acid is present in the free state, while it is much less, or even 
absent altogether, in the earlier stages when all the hydrochloric acid is 
in a combined form. Food rich in protein, by fixing the hydrochloric 
acid, must greatly lessen the germicidal power of the gastric juice. Over 
the growth of organisms in the intestine the stomach seems powerless 
to exert any control. Even in cases in which the secretion of hydro- 
chloric acid is entirely arrested, or in which the stomach has been com- 
pletely removed, no increase in the amount of intestinal putrefaction 
was found to occur." 

REGULATION OF TEMPERATURE.— The stomach exercises the func- 
tion of regulating the temperature of food and drink, thus serving as a 
protector of the intestine, which appears to be more seriously affected 
by extremes of temperature than the stomach itself. 

The activity of the peristaltic movements of the stomach may be 
controlled by chemical messengers, hormones, in the circulation, although 
the temperature of the ternary food elements may also either inhibit 
or augment gastric peristalsis. Even mere mechanical contact seems to 
exercise some little stimulating effect Hot food is more agreeable and 
stimulates the frequency and vigor of gastric peristalsis ; cold food excites 
gastric activity much less. 

The local effects of extremes of temperature in the stomach are very 
much the same, whether the extreme be one of heat or of cold. In each 
case there is danger of exciting gastric catarrh. Very hot foods seem 
to he specially dangerous in stomach bleedings— e.gr., ulcer; and some 
authorities say that the special liability of cooks to suffer from gastric 



FUNCTIONS OF THE STOMACH 141 

ulcer is to be attributed to their constantly tasting very hot foods. On 
the other hand, it is claimed that very warm fluids may relieve pain in 
the stomach by abolishing pyloric spasm. 

ABSORPTION OF FOOD.— Hutchisou points out that the powers of ab- 
sorption of the stomach are notoriously and surprisingly small. This 
may be a provision of nature designed for the protection of the body. 
The stomach, in addition to its digestive functions, acts as a testing 
laboratory for food, as, owing to its extremely deficient absorptive powers, 
it has time to neutralize or to reject injurious substances before they can 
enter the blood. Alcohol is the substance which the stomach absorbs 
most readily, a fact which partially explains its stimulating action. Most 
of the authorities on the subject are of the opinion that the process of 
absorption by the stomach is rather of the character of a physical osmosis 
than it is in the case of the intestine. A large quantity of secretion is 
poured out during the process, which Hutchison suggests may account 
for the fact that a mixture of alcohol and sugar, such as is found in 
sweet wines and some malt liquors, may cause "acidity" of the stomach. 

The question of absorption, from its physiological standpoint as well 
as its practical bearing on dietetic treatment of disease, will be fully 
considered in Volume III of this work. 

EEFERENCES 

1. Cannon, W. B. The Mechanical Processes of Digestion. 

2. Fermi. Arch. f. Physiol., 1901, 98. 

3. Gaudenz. xA.rch. f. Hyg., 1901, xxxix, 231. 

4. Pavlov, Ivan Petrovich. The Work of the Digestive Glands, 

London, 1902, 50. 

5. HoRNBORG. Skandin. Arch. f. Physiol., 1904. 

6. Cannon. The Mechanical Factors of Digestion, Edward Arnold, 

London, 1911. 

7. Maxwell. Bio-Chem. J., Liverp. 

8. Ott, L Text-book of Physiology. 

9. Cannon, W. B. The Mechanical Factors of Digestion. 

10. Marckwald. Ztschr. f. Biol., 1889, xxv, 46. 

11. Wassilieff. Ztschr. f. Biol., 1888, xxiv, 39-40. 

12. Meltzer. Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. & Med., New York, 1907. 

13. Pavlov, Ivan Petrovich. The Work of Digestive Glands, trans- 

lation by Thompson, London, 1902; Ergebn. d. Physiol., 1904, 
Part I ; Arch, internat. de physiol., 1904, i, 119 ; Am. J. Phys., 
1906, xvii, 142. 



142 PKOCESSES OF DIGESTION 

14. Howell, W. H. Text-book of Physiology. 

15. Pavlov. Die Arbeit der Verdauungsdriisen, Wiesbaden, 1898, 6. 

(Pavlov's chief results have been confirmed, in the case of the 
human subject, by Schuler's article, ''In wie weit stimmen die 
Experimente von Pavlov am Hunde mit den Befunden am nor- 
malen menschlichen Magen iiberein?" Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med., 
1901, Ixxi, 111.) 

16. Starling. Recent Advances in the Physiology of Digestion, Chi- 

cago, 1906, 132. 

17. Beaumont. Physiology of Digestion, Plattsburgh, 1833, 110. 

18. Starling. Principles of Human Physiology. 

19. Hedbloom and Cannon. Am. J. M. Sc, 1909, cxxxviii, 518. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Bayliss and Starling. J. Physiol., 1899, xxiv, 103, 142; ibid., 1901, 
xxvi, 127, 134; ibid., 1902, xxviii, 325; Centralb. f. Physiol., 
1901, XV, 682. 

Beaumont. Physiology of Digestion, Plattsburgh, 1833, 110, 115. 

Cannon, W. B. The Mechanical Factors of Digestion. 

. The Correlation of the Digestive Functions, Boston M. & 

S. J., 1910, clxii, 97. 

. Am. J. Physiol., 1898, i, 367, 374, 377, 379; ibid,, 1902, 

vi, 262; ibid,, 1902, vii, 22; ibid., 1903, viii, 21, 22; ibid., 1904, 
xii, 392, 393; ibid., 1905, xiv, 344; ibid., 1906. 

and Day. Am. J. Physiol., 1903, ix, 396. 

and Hedbloom. Am. J. M. Sc, 1909, cxxxviii, 518. 

and Moser. Am. J. Physiol., 1898, i, 440. 



Chittenden, Mendel, and Jackson. Am. J. Physiol., 1898, i, 207. 

Edkins. J. Physiol., 1906, xxxiv, 133. 

Ellenberger and Goldschmidt. Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem., 1886, 

X, 384. 
Ellenberger and Hofmeister. Arch. f. wissensch. u. prakt. Thierh., 

1882, viii; 1883, ix; 1884, x, 6; and 1886, xii, 126. 
Elliott. J. Physiol., 1904, xxxi, 157. 

and Barclay-Smith. J. Physiol., 1904, xxxi, 272. 

Ewald and Boas. Arch. f. path. Anat, 1885, ci, 365. 

Eykmann. Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol., 1903, xcix, 521. 

Falk and Kroneckee. Arch. f. Physiol., 1880, 296. 

FiscHEB and Abdeeiialden. Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem., 1903, xl, 216. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 143 

Henderson. Am. J. Physiol., 1009, xxiv, 71. 

HoBNBORG. Skandin, Arch. f. Physiol., 1904, xv, 248. 

Keith. Sys. of Med., 1907, iii, 860. 

KuiiNE, W. Lehrb. d. physiol. Chem., Loipzif^, 1868, 53. 

Lang. Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem., 1905, xlvi, 225. 

London and Sulima. Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem., 1905, xlvi, 215. 

MacFadyen, Nencki, and Siebee. J. Anat. and Physiol., 1891, xxv, 
393. 

May. J. Physiol., 1904, xxxi, 270. 

McClure and Derge. Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bui., 473, 1907, xviii. 

Mering. Verhandl. d. Cong. f. innere Med., 1897, xv, 433. 

Mueller. Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol., 1907, cxvi, 253. 

MuNK. Centralbl. f. PhysioL, 1902, xvi, 33. 

Openchowski. Centralbl. f. PhysioL, 1899, iii, 4. 

OsER. Ztschr. f. klin. Med., 1892, xx, 288. (He states that vagus stimu- 
lation completely closes the open pylorus.) 

Pavlov. The Work of the Digestive Glands, London, 1902, 50, 97, 103; 
Fermi, Arch. f. PhysioL, Suppl., 1901, 76. 

. Am. J. Physiol., 1902, vi, 36-100. 

ScHiFF. Physiologie de la Digestion, Florence and Turin, 1867, ii, 326. 

Sherrington. Schafer's Text-book of Physiology, Edinburgh and Lon- 
don, 1900, ii, 851. 

Starling. Kecent Advances in the Physiology of Digestion, Chicago, 
1906, 132. 

. Schafer's Text-book of Physiology, Edinburgh and London, 

1900, ii, 329. 

ToBLER. Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem., 1905, xlv, 195. 
VoLKMANN. Wagner^s Handworterb. d. Physiol., 1844, ii, 586. 
Williams. The Eoentgen Eays in Medicine and Surgery, New York, 

1901, 360, 365, 370. 



CHAPTER VI 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HORMONES AS AP- 
PLIED IN THE PROCESS OF DIGESTION 



Arthur W. Weysse, Ph.D., M.D. 

Ferments. 

Nature of Enzymatic Processes: Specific Action; Temperature Control; 
Reversibility. 

Classification of Enzymes: Proteolytic enzymes — Trypsin, Pepsin; Amylo- 
lytic enzymes — Amylopsin; Fat-splitting enzymes — Lipase; Sugar- 
splitting enzymes — Invertase, Lactase; Peptolytic enzymes — Erepsin; 
Coagulating enzymes; Oxidizing enzymes; Hormones — Secretin, Gas- 
trin. 

Gastric Digestion. 

As pointed out in the previous chapter, the digestion of food takes 
place through a number of complex chemical changes brought about in the 
alimentary canal by the action of certain unorganized ferments referred 
to physiologically as enzymes. These chemical changes give rise to altera- 
tions in the physical properties of food. The two combined permit the 
assimilation of the true food substances with the rejection of the waste 
products as refuse. Enzymes are products of protoplasmic changes ; they 
are complex substances, the exact nature of wliich has not been deter- 
mined. 

Ferments. — The term fermentation was applied first to the change of 
sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid by the agency of yeast. A common 
definition of a ferment is that of a body which when added to a chemical 
system is capable of bringing about changes in that system, without 
either imparting energy to the reaction, being consumed itself or having 
any share in the formation of the end products. 

According to Starling, minimum quantities of ferment can induce 
chemical changes involving almost indefinite quantities of other siib- 

145 



146 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HORMONES 

stances, the only result of increasing the quantity of ferment being to 
quicken the rate of change. Since ferments are effective in minimum 
doses, they occur in living tissues in minute quantities, and it is due 
partly to this fact that up to the present time it has proved impossible to 
procure any preparation of a ferment which could be regarded as a pure 
substance. Moreover, the difficulty of isolating them is increased by the 
fact that all of them are colloidal or semi-colloidal in character, and con- 
sequently present the tendency common to all colloids of adhering to other 
colloidal matter as well as to surfaces such as those presented by a precipi- 
tate. 

Referring again to the term fermentation, it may be pointed out that 
the evolution of carbonic acid causes frothing and bubbling, hence the 
name fermentation; yeast, the agency which brings this about, was de- 
nominated the ^^ferment." 

APPLICATION TO THE "GERM THEORY."— It is interesting in this 
connection to note that the ^'germ theory" of disease offers an explanation 
of the origin of infectious diseases by considering that the change in the 
system is of the nature of fermentation, enzyme action produced by mi- 
crobes. Infection is caused by the direct conveyance of living pathogenic 
microorganisms or their products from individual to individual. 

It is only within recent times that it has been known how chemical 
changes were effected by the germ action. It is, however, now a matter 
of common knowledge that they do so by producing agents of a chemical 
nature which are termed enzymes. Pasteur showed in his now classical 
researches that the activity of living organisms was the cause of fer- 
mentative action, that is, in the former sense of the word, alcoholic, acid, 
and putrefactive, and he demonstrated the point just touched upon that 
many diseases are likewise due to the activity of minute living organisms. 
Nature of Enzymatic Processes — It has been shown that there is no 
essential difference between the activity of living, or organized, and non- 
living, or unorganized, ferments. As Howell points out, the so-called or- 
ganized ferments probably produce their effects not by virtue of their 
specific life metabolism, but by the manufacture within their substance 
of specific enzymes. If this conclusion can be accepted, then the general 
e.xplanation of fermentation is to be sought in the nature of the enzymatic 
processes. The usual standpoint nowadays from which the mode of action 
of enzymes is regarded is that advocated chiefly by Ostwald. He assumes 
that the enzyme actions are similar to those of catalysis. A catalyzer may 
be defined as a substance which alters the velocity of a reaction, but does 
not mitiate it The subject of enzymic action is so nearly analogous to 



NATURE OF ENZYMATIC PROCESSES 



147 



that of inorganic catalytics that the general opinion considers the former 
action a catalytic one. 

Already, although perhaps it may seem somewhat like putting the 
cart before the horse, the catalytic theory appears to have most of the 
weight of evidence on its side. Nevertheless it may still be termed a 
theory. 

ACTION OF ENZYMES.— According to Starling, it may be concluded that 
in the action of enzymes on the food substances, whether fat, carbohydrate 
or protein, an essential factor is the combination of the enzyme with the 
substrate, the substance upon which the enzyme acts. Only that part of 
the substrate which is thus combined with the enzyme can be regarded as 
the active mass and as undergoing the hydrolytic change. What is the 
nature of this combination ? Enzymes, which are all of a colloid or semi- 
colloid character, cannot be dealt with in the same way as the catalysts 
of definite chemical composition, such as molybdic acid or nitrous oxid. In 
many cases the substrate, e.g., starch or protein, is also colloidal, and the 
combination therefore falls into the class of combinations between col- 
loids. In this w^ay we have an interaction between tw^o substances in 
which the absorption by the surfaces of the molecules of one or both sub- 
stances plays an important part, although this absorption is itself deter- 
mined or modified by the chemical configuration of the molecules. In the 
opinion of Starling, therefore, the combining of ferments with their sub- 
strates belongs to that special class of interactions not entirely chemical 
and not entirely physical, but depending for their existence on a co- 
operation of both chemical and physical factors. The combinations 
formed may be denominated as absorption compounds. 

Enzymes are active and inactive. A large number of enzymes exist 
inactive wdthin the cell, and even when contained in secretions are still 
inactive. Other enzymes are in a constant state of preparedness for 
immediate action. The inactive ones are spurred into activity by sub- 
stances known as activators or co-enzymes. The essential facts regarding 
enzyme action may be tabulated in the following way: 



Living Cell 
Yeast cell 
Salivary cell 
Gastric cell 


Enzyme Produced 


Substrate 


Products of the 
A ction 


Zymase 
Ptyalin 
Pepsin 


Dextrose 
Cooked starch 
Protein 


Alcohol and carbon 

dioxid 
Dextrin and maltose 

Proteoses, peptones 
and amino-acids 



148 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HOKMONES 

Classification of Enzymes According to Their Activity. — The 
enzymes which play a part in the digestion and absorption of food may 
be grouped somewhat roughly as follows ; 

(a) Proteolytic enzymes ^ those which, acting upon proteins, split 
them into proteoses, peptones and polypeptids, and finally into amino- 
acids. Examples in animals are pepsin, of the gastric, and trypsin, of the 
pancreatic, juice. In plants a like enzyme exists: bromelin in the pine- 
apple and, finally, papain in the pawpaw. 

(b) Amylolytic enzymes, those which convert starches (polysaccha- 
rids) into sugar with intermediate dextrin. Thus, ptyalin found in the 
saliva of animals is an example, while the diastase of vegetable seeds is 
the corresponding enzyme in plant life. 

(c) Lipolytic enzymes, or fat-splitting enzymes, those which split 
neutral fat into glycerol and fatty acids. Lipase found in the pancreatic 
juice is an example from the animal species. Many seeds contain 
enzymes of a similar nature. 

{d) Sugar-splitting or inverting enzymes, those which convert disac- 
charids into monosaccharids. Examples are invertase of yeast cells and 
invertase of the intestinal juice, Avhich convert sucrose (cane sugar) 
into equal parts, glucose and fructose, otherwise known as dextrose and 
levulose. Invertase is also found in the small intestine. Other enzymes 
split the monosaccharids by hydrolysis. 

(e) Feptolytic enzymes, those which split proteoses and peptones into 
polypeptids and amino-acids. An example is trypsin of the intestinal 
juice. 

(/■) Coagulating enzymes, those which convert soluble into insoluble 
proteins. Thrombin, which converts the soluble protein fibrinogen into, 
fibrin and rennin, the milk-curdling ferment, are examples of the coagu- 
lating ferments. 

(^f) Oxidizing ferments or oxidizing enzymes, those which produce 
oxidation and are mainly found as intracellular enzymes. 

The following list is by no means complete, but includes most of the 
more important enzymes, the existence of which has been definitely estab- 
lished in the human body. It will be observed that the majority of them 
are involved in the processes of digestion in the alimentary canal. This 
preponderance of enzymes concerned in the digestive and absorptive proc- 
esses is merely due to the fact that more is known regarding digestion 
than about other chemical processes which take place within the cells of 
the body. Some of these individual enzymes will be considered later, 



NATURE OF ENZYMATIC PROCESSES 



149 



PARTIAL LIST OF THE 



Amylase (pancreatic diostaie) Pancreatic aecretion 



Act on Carbohydrates 



ENZYMES CONCERNED IN 
AND NUTRITION* 

Where Chieflt Found 
Salivary aecretion 



THE PROCESSES OF DIGESTION 



Enzyue 

Ptyalin (salivary diatttaae) 



liver glycoicenase 

(dia^itase) 

Muscle glycogenaiie 
(diastase) 

Invertase (sucraae) 
Maltase 

Lactase 
Glycolytic (?) 



Act on Fats [^^^^ (ateapsia) 

Pepsin 



Act on Proteins . 



Trypsin 
Ere[>sin 



Liver 
Muscles 
Small intestine 



Small intestine, salivary 
and pancreatic secre- 
tion 

Small intestine 



Muscles (?) 

Pancreatic secretion, fat, 
tissues, blood, etc. 

Gastric juice 



Pancreatic juice 
Small intestine 



Group of autolytic enzymes Tissues generally 



Deaminizing Enzymes. 



Nucleases 



Guanase 



Adenase 



Pancreas, spleen, 
mus, etc. 



thy- 



Thymus, adrenals, pan- 
creas 



Spleen, [>ancreas, liver 



Deaminase (?) 



Oxidase 



Tissues p'enerally 



Lungs, liver, muscles, etc. 







Reductase 


Tissues geneially 




Catalase 


Many tissues 




Arginase 


Liver, spleen 






Hormones 
Secretin 


Duodenum 


Act on Proteins 




Gastrin 


Pyloric mucous 
brane 


> Howell, W. H. 


"Text-book of Physiology." 





Action 
Converts starch into sugar 
(maltose) 

Converts starch into sugar 
(maltose) 

Converts glycogen into dex- 
trose 

Converts glycogen into dex- 
trose 

Converts cane sugar into 
dextrose and levuloec 

Converts maltose into dex- 
trose 



Converts lactose into dex- 
trose and galactose 

Splits and oxidizes dextrose 

Splits neutral fats into fatty 
acids and glycerin 

Converts protein into pep- 
tones and proteoses 

Splits proteins into their 
constituent amino-acids 

Splits peptones and pro- 
teoses into their con- 
stituent amino-acids 

Splits proteins into nitrog- 
enous bases 'and amino- 
bodies 

Splits nucleic acid with for- 
mation of purin bases, 
etc. 

Converts guanin into xan- 
thin by splitting off an 
NHj group as ammonia 
(NH3) 

Converts adenin to hypo- 
xanthin by splitting off 
an NHi group as ammo- 
nia (NH3) 

Splits off the NHi group 
from the amino-acids with 
the formation of non-ni- 
trogenous organic acids 

Causes oxidation of organic 
substances, as in the con- 
version of hypoxanthin to 
xanthin and of xanthin to 
uric acid 

Causes reduction or deoxi- 
dation as, for example, 
the reduction of oxyhem- 
oglobin to hemoglobin 

Decomposes hydrogen per- 
oxid 

Splits arginin with produc- 
tion of urea and ornithin 
(diaminovalerianic acid) 



Stimulant to 
secretion 



pancreatic 



mem- Stimulant to gastric glands 



150 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HOKMONES 

but for the present the question of the enzymes will be only dealt with 
in a general way. 

Specific Action of Enzymes. — According to Halliburton, the spe- 
cific action of enzymes is as a rule remarkably definite and narrow. 
The hydrolysis of the three principal disaccharids, cane sugar, lactose 
and maltose, is effected by three separate enzymes, none of which will 
hydrolyze the remaining two sugars. For example, arginin is split by 
arginase into ornithin and urea, but arginase will then act on arginin 
alone. As Halliburton has pointed out, the simile of the "lock and key,'' 
first introduced by Eniil Fischer, will enable us partly to comprehend 
this action. There must be a special key to each lock ; in a similar way 
the chemical configuration of an enzyme must be in certain respects 
related to the configuration of the substrate to allow it to enter and 
unlock its parts so that they are loosened from one another. 

Temperature. — Halliburton has drawn attention to the optimum 
temperature of enzyme action which is as follows. He states that, "With 
the rising of the temperature the velocity of the action increases, until a 
temperature is reached at which the activity is greatest. Most enzymes act 
best at 40° C, but there are exceptions. For instance, malt diastase acts 
best at 60° C. Beyond the optimum temperature a further rise inhibits 
activity, until a temperature is reached which destroys the enzyme. This 
fatal temperature, as a rule, is in the neighborhood of 50° C. The effect 
of a rise of temperature is complex. At the beginning of the action be- 
tween certain limits, the law of Arrhenius is followed, that is, a rise of 
10° doubles or even trebles the velocity of the action of the enzyme, as it 
acts upon other chemical reactions. But as the temperature rises, the 
velocity of disintegration of the enzyme also increases. The optimum 
temperature is that at which the enzyme work is best done — a tempera- 
ture at which the accelerating effect is strong enough to finish the reaction 
quickly, and the retarding effect due to enzyme destruction is not so great 
as to neutralize the accelerating effect." An enzyme is practically inex- 
haustible. He further states that a small amount of enzyme will act on 
an unlimited amount of substrate, provided sufficient time be given, and 
provided also that the products of action be removed. The enzyme ap- 
pears to take a share in intermediate reactions, and there is evidence that 
in some stages it combines with the substrate ; subsequently, however, when 
the substrate breaks up into simpler materials, the enzyme is liberated 
unchanged, and is ready to act in a similar manner on a fresh quantity 
of substrate. 

Reversibility. — A very important part of enzyme action is its re- 



NATURE OF ENZYMATIC PROCESSES 151 

versibility. It is well known that under favorable conditions many chem- 
ical reactions are reversible. If, for example, as pointed out by Starling, 
maltase obtained from yeast, or from the so-called takadiastase, be added 
to a solution of maltose, the latter is hydrolyzed to glucose. The process 
of hydrolysis stops short of complete inversion at a point varying with 
the concentration of the sugar solution. Thus in a 10 per cent solution of 
maltose, inversion proceeds until 1)8 per cent of the maltose is converted 
into dextrose, whereas in a 40 per cent solution the change stops short 
when 85 per cent sugar has undergone inversion. Croft Hill showed that 
if the maltase was added to a 40 per cent solution of dextrose, a change 
took place in the reverse direction, which proceeded until 85 per cent of 
the glucose was left. "This phenomenon is due to the fact that two re- 
actions are always taking place in opposite directions. Simultaneously 
with the splitting up, the synthetical reaction begins and synthesis or 
building up increases in proportion as the splitting of the compound ad- 
vances. The velocity of the splitting process decreases at the same rate 
as the velocity of the synthetic process increases. At a certain point both 
have the same velocity, and therefore no further change occurs in the 
mixture when this condition of equilibrium is reached. This rule may 
be expressed by writing the chemical equation connected by a double 
arrow instead of the sign of equation. 

C2H5.OH + CH3.COOH <> CH3.COOC2H5 + H2O 

(Ethyl-alcohol) (Acetic acid) (Ethyl-acetate) (Water) 

CeHioOe + CeHi^Oe <> C,^B.,,0,, + H^O 

(Dextrose) (Levulose) . (Cane Sugar) (Water) 

"This phenomenon is termed ^reversibility,' and as mentioned previ- 
ously was first demonstrated by Croft Hill in his experiments with cane 
sugar and invertase." 

Howell has pointed out and emphasized the carefully conducted ex- 
periments of Kastle and Loewenhart, who have obtained an excellent 
example of this double effect in experiments upon lipase, the enzyme 
which in the body acts upon the neutral fats, converting them into fatty 
acids and glycerin, a process which takes place as a usual, if not neces- 
sary, step in the digestion and absorption of fats. These investigators 
employed a simple ester analogous to the fats, ethyl-butyrate, and demon- 
strated the fact that lipase caused not only a hydrolysis of this substance 
into ethyl-alcohol and butyric acid, but also a synthesis of the two last 
named substances into ethyl-butyrate and water. Consequently, the reac- 



152 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HOKMONES 

tion effected by the lipase is reversible and as a chemical equation may 
be expressed as follows: 

CsH.COOC^H, + H^O ^± CsH.COOH + C,1I,0K 
Ethyl-butyrate Water Butyric Acid Ethyl-alcohol 

Howell thinks that lipase is capable probably of exerting a similar 
reversible reaction on the fats in the body. Acting on the assumption 
that such is the case, it is possible to explain not only the digestion of 
fats, but also their formation in the tissues and their absorption from the 
tissues during starvation. That is, according to the conditions of concen- 
tration, etc., one and the same enzyme may cause a splitting up of the neu- 
tral fat into fatty acids and glycerin or a storing up of neutral fat by the 
synthesis of fatty acid and glycerin. Arguing from the results of ex- 
periments, it would therefore appear that fat may be stored, to a certain 
point, or if the conditions are altered, that the fat which is in the tissues 
may be changed into the fatty acids and glycerin and be oxidized in the 
body as food. 

As Halliburton shows, in intracellular action, this reversibility of en- 
zymatic action is a factor of importance, for the same enzyme can, in the 
presence of different proportions of the substrate and its cleavage prod- 
ucts, both tie the knot in anabolism and untie it in katabolism. It should 
also be noted that hydrolytic actions are isothermic, that is, the total 
energy of the products is equal to that of the substance broken up. 

A similar reversibility has been exhibited by some of the other en- 
zymes of the body. In fact, what Halliburton aptly terms the simpler 
logarithmic law of enzyme action has been demonstrated for the major- 
ity of enzymes, invertase, trypsin, erepsin, etc. Also the eifect in a given 
time is directly proportional to the quantity of enzyme present. Pepsin, 
however, is an exception to this so-called logarithmic law of enzyme ac- 
tion, a fact to which Schultz first drew attention in 1885. It was discov- 
ered by this investigator that peptic activity is proportional to the square 
root of the amount of pepsin present. 

Action of Specific Enzymes. — As mentioned before, it would be 
impossible and even unnecessary in a work of this nature to discuss at 
length each and every enzyme or ferment, therefore only some of the 
more important involved in the processes of digestion and absorption will 
be briefly described. 

Trypsin. — Of the proteolytic enzymes, those which act on proteins, 
trypsin is of the greatest moment. Corvisart was the first to point out the 
digestive action of pancreatic juice on proteins, but it was reserved for 



JSTATURE OF ENZYMATIC PROCESSES 153 

Kiihne to subject the action of the extracts of the gland to a thorough 
investigation. Finally it was demonstrated that pancreatic juice as se- 
creted is free from proteolytic effects, and that this power can only be 
developed by bringing about some change in the juice itself, a conversion 
of trypsinogen into tryj)sin. Under normal conditions this change is 
induced immediately by the action of a substance, enterokinase, after 
the juice pnters the gut. According to Starling, the pancreatic juice 
thereby acquires a proteolytic activity superior to that of any other 
digestive juice, so that the proteins of the food undergo a very thorough 
disintegration. ^'Trypsin acts in an alkaline medium; pepsin, the gastric 
enzyme, in an acid medium. Try])sin acts more rapidly than pepsin, and 
more powerfully upon certain proteins which are difficult of digestion 
in gastric juice. Acting on solid proteins, such as fibrin, it eats them 
away from the surface to the interior.'' Trypsin acts further than pepsin, 
and rapidly splits up the proteose and peptone which have left the stom- 
ach into simpler substances, the polypeptids. In their turn the polypep- 
tids are resolved into their constituents, amino-acids. In addition there 
is a certain amount of ammonia, when once the peptone stage is passed, 
and the products of further cleavage no longer give the biuret reaction. 
Accordingly, they are frequently termed abiuretic. Two important dif- 
ferences are to be noted between trypsin and pepsin : trypsin is by far the 
more powerful and rapid catalyst; pepsin cannot cleave polypeptids into 
amino-acids as trypsin can. They both work together in normal condi- 
tions in perfect harmony. The preliminary action of pepsin is beneficial, 
as trypsin cleavage occurs more readily after pepsin has acted on a pro- 
tein. 

Pepsin. — Although a typical proteolytic enzyme, pepsin is distin- 
guished from the others in that it acts on acid media only. The combined 
action of pepsin and hydrochloric acid results in peptic digestion. The 
effects of its action are mainly exhibited on the protein of the food. 
Temperature has an influence on its action, low temperature retardijig 
and a high temperature increasing it. Pepsin may be extracted from 
the gastric mucous membrane by a variety of methods. 

But while trypsin and pepsin are the direct activators of digestion 
and absorption of proteins in the intestine, these must be activated or 
brought into action by some other agent or agents. It was believed up 
to a comparatively short while ago that it was solely due to the acid 
reflex that the pancreatic gland was spurred into action. 

. The Hormones: Secretin and Gastrin, — Bayliss and Starling and 
their co-workers state that the activation of the pancreas is not due to an 



154 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HORMONES 

acid, which reflexly inhibits the secretion of the pancreas, but is induced 
by some unknown substance acting either through the circulation or by 
reflexly stimulating the nerve centers, and thus producing an increase in 
the flow of pancreatic juice. Pavlov(l) was the first to suggest this the- 
ory as the result of experiments made by himself and co-workers ; but he 
was uncertain whether this activating agent wielded its power through 
the medium of the nervous system or through the blood stream. To Ba}^- 
liss and Starling belongs the honor of clearing up this matter and of dem- 
onstrating by careful investigations that the stimulus or message from 
the intestine to the pancreas which accelerates the secretion of the latter 
must be carried, not by the nervous system, but by the blood stream. 
Therefore the messenger is a chemical one and was termed by the dis- 
coverers "secretin" or "pancreatic secretin'^ to differentiate it from other 
possible members of the same class. The general appellation for such 
chemical messengers is hormone, from the Greek, opfxaveiv, to excite. 

As Beveridge has pointed out (2), chemically no proof has as yet 
been adduced to show exactly what secretin is. It is not a ferment but a 
protein substance of low molecular weight, the activity of which is greatly 
impaired by boiling. Secretin exerts a distinct physiological action upon 
the pancreas, augmenting its secretions. This action is not a reflex one, 
as for instance stimulating the nerve supply by a chemical irritation, but 
a direct one conveyed through the blood stream. In all probability it 
acts upon the secretory cell itself. In addition to stimulating into activity 
the pancreatic gland, secretin possesses other functions. These functions 
have been demonstrated by Delezenne and Frouin, working at the Pasteur 
Institute in Paris. They were able to show that secretin is capable of 
exerting a physiological action which undoubtedly increases the supply 
of 8UCCUS entericus. Finally it remained for Hallion to show that secretin 
possessed the property of increasing the peristalsis of the small and the 
large intestines. 

Starling(3) lays down the following characteristics of hormones if 
they are to fulfill the part of chemical messengers. 

(a) In the first place, they must not be antigens, i.e.y their injection 
into the blood stream must not evoke the production of an antibody. If 
this were the case, the hormone on entering the blood stream would meet 
its antibody and would be unable to exert any effect upon the appropriate 
reacting organ. Practically all the complex colloid bodies allied to the 
proteins, e.g., ferments, egg albumin, peptone and sera of different ani- 
mals, when injected into the blood stream cause the production of a cor- 
responding antibody. The hormones must be simpler in character than 



NATURE OF ENZYMATIC PROCESSES 155 

such substances and probably have a precise and comparatively simple 
chemical or molecular constitution. 

{h) Since they must be carried by the blood stream to the reacting 
organ they must in most cases be susceptible to easy passage through the 
walls of the blood vessels if they are to excite a reaction within a fairly 
short space of time. 

(c) As a rule, the chemical messenger must excite a state of activity 
in response to a change in some other part of the body. When the pri- 
mary change passes away, the action of the hormone should also dis- 
appear. On this account it is necessary that the hormone should either 
be susceptible of easy destruction by oxidation or otherwise in the fluids 
of the body, or be readily excreted so that its action may not be continued 
indefinitely. 

As stated, it is more than likely that hormones are the activating 
agents which impel all secreting glands to perform their normal functions. 

In 1906 Edkins expressed the belief that a hormone excited gastric 
secretion in the same way that secretin acted upon the pancreatic gland. 
This investigator showed that decoctions of the pyloric mucous mem- 
brane, made by boiling in water, acid or peptone solutions, when injected 
into the blood cause a marked secretion of gastric juice. These substances 
when injected alone into the blood cause no such effect, and decoctions 
of the mucous membrane of the fundic end of the stomach are without 
action on the gastric secretion. He therefore suggested that the secre- 
togogues, whether preformed in the food or formed during digestion, act 
upon the pyloric mucous membrane and form a substance which he terms 
gastrin or gastric secretin, and that this substance after absorption into 
the blood is carried to the gastric glands and stimulates them to secre- 
tion (4). 

Howell, in commenting upon the chemical action of the hormones, 
points out that, leaving aside for the moment the way in which the 
secretogogues excite" the secretion, it is important to emphasize the 
fact that in the normal secretion of gastric juice, that is to say, in the 
secretion which takes place during an ordinary meal, a distinction must 
be made between a nervous secretion due to the action of the secretory 
fibers in the vagus and a chemical secretion due to the chemical stimula- 
tion of the secretogogaies or of the hormones produced by them. The same 
authority further points out that "the researches of Pavlov and his fellow 
workers seem also to indicate that the quantity and properties of the secre- 
tion vary with the character of the food. The quantity of the secretion 
varies, also, other conditions being the same, with the amount of food to be 



156 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HOEMONES 

digested. The apparatus is adjusted in this respect to work economically. 
Diiferent kinds of food produce secretions varying not only as regards 
quantity but also in their acidity and digestive action. The secretion 
produced by bread, though less in quantity than that caused by meat, 
possesses a greater digestive action. On a given diet the secretion assumes 
certain characteristics, and Pavlov is convinced that further work will 
disclose the fact that the secretion of the stomach is not caused normally 
by general stimuli all affecting it alike, but by specific stimuli contained 
in the food or produced during digestion, whose action is of such a kind 
that it arouses reflexly the secretion best adapted to the food ingested." 

With regard, then, to the secondary secretion of gastric juice, Pavlov 
and Popeilski were of the opinion that it was excited by a local stimu- 
lation of the reflex nervous apparatus in the gastric wall. Edkins came 
to the conclusion that it was caused by a chemical mechanism produced 
in this manner. The pyloric mucous membrane is acted upon by the 
first products of digestion, thereby producing in the membrane a sub- 
stance which, absorbed into the blood stream and conveyed to all the 
glands of the stomach, excites them to secretory activity; hence the hor- 
mone, gastrin. This point has been referred to already, but it is of such 
importance that it seems wise to lay especial stress upon it again. A 
phase of the question to which attention is drawn by Starling(4) is that 
gastrin (i.e., the gastric hormone) is produced in that portion of the 
stomach in which the process of absorption is most pronounced. 

Two factors, therefore, enter into the production and excitation of 
the flow of normal gastric secretion. The most important is of nervous 
origin, and the second, which has just been discussed, is of chemical 
origin. It has not been decided yet whether gastrin is secreted in the 
pyloric mucous membrane only, or whether its production goes on in the 
lower gut Recent researches appear to uphold the belief that the dis- 
tribution of gastrin is uniform throughout the gastric mucosa. It is 
said to have been found in small concentrations in the duodenum; and 
it has been said that its presence has been demonstrated, although with 
some difficulty, in the esophagus. 

The problem of gastric digestion has greatly occupied the attention 
of research physiologists. Keeton and Koch hold the view that gastrin 
causes a true gastric flow rather than a simple vasomotor response. Ex- 
periments appear to show that this view is logical. These investigators 
also conclude that gastrin is of a chemical nature different from that of 
pancreatic secretin and that it is a specific substance. 

There is yet a great deal to be learned concerning the hormones. In 



NATURE OF ENZYMATIC PROCESSES 157 

fact, knowledge regarding them and their action is still in its infancy 
and the results recorded from the various investigations may seem some- 
what inchoate and confusing to the practical man. However, a founda- 
tion has been laid upon which may be and probably will be built a super- 
structure of amazing proportions. It would seem to have been proven 
conclusively that pancreatic secretin is the activator of the pancreatic 
gland and that its action is chemical. Surely this is a beginning which 
opens a vista of immense possibilities not only for successful treatment 
but for the prevention of various chronic diseases. According to 
Starling(3), secretin (a) increases pancreatic secretions if true organic 
changes have not occurred, (/;) aids protein digestion, (c) stimulates a 
low urea output, (d) exerts no favorable action in the digestion or break- 
ing down of the carbohydrate molecule, and (e) increases peristalsis. 

Amylase. — Of the amylolytic enzymes, amylase contained in the 
pancreatic juice may be taken as the most conspicuous example. This 
enzyme converts starch into maltose more rapidly than the other enzymes 
perform their several duties. Amylase will even act on unboiled starch. 
The absence of the enzyme in the pancreatic juice of infants is an indi- 
cation that milk, and not starch, is their natural diet. 

Lipase. — Of the fat-splitting enzymes lipase contained in the pan- 
creatic juice splits fats into glycerol and fatty acids. The fatty acids 
unite with the alkaline bases present to form soaps. Halliburton points 
out that "when a glycerin extract of pancreas is filtered the filtrate has 
no lipoclastic action and the material deposited on the filter is also in- 
active; but on mixing it with the inactive filtrate once more, a strongly 
lipoclastic material is obtained. In this fashion lipase may be separated 
into two fractions: the material on the filter is inactive lipase; the ma- 
terial in the filtrate is its co-enzyme which is not destroyed by boiling. 
The salts of the bile also stir to action the inactive lipase, which explains 
the fact that bile exerts an action in fat-splitting. Because of its alkaline 
properties pancreatic juice assists in the emulsification of fats. It like- 
wise possesses the power of liberating fatty acids, which form soaps with 
the alkali present." It is held by some that the presence of protein in the 
pancreatic juice renders it especially adapted to the purpose of emulsifi- 
cation, but we cannot agree with this teaching. 

Invertase. — Of the sugar-splitting enz\Tnes invertase may be taken as 
a type. As mentioned previously, the inverting enzymes capable of con- 
verting the disaccharids into the monosaccharids are three in number. 
As a matter of fact, it is the succus entericus which possesses this pow^r, 
but it owes it to three enzymes; invertase which inverts cane sugar or 



158 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HOKMONES 

lather converts cane sugar into dextrose and levulose; maltase which con- 
verts maltose into dextrose ; and lactase which acts upon lactose, converting 
milk sugar into dextrose and galactose. This inverting action is neces- 
sary to prepare the carbohydrate food for nutritive purposes. 

Interaction of the Enzymes in the Succus Entericus. — The in- 
testinal juice and its action were up to a few years ago, comparatively 
speaking, a terra incognita. It was known that the enzymes referred to 
possessed the above mentioned powers, but beyond this it was a blank. 
Since then more light has been thrown upon the subject and it is now 
freely recognized that the succus entericus is a juice of the first impor- 
tance. As Pavlov has demonstrated, one of its main actions is to rein- 
force and intensify the proteolytic power of the pancreatic juice. A mix- 
ture of pancreatic and intestinal juice is remarkably powerful. If, as 
Starling has shown, secretin is administered to a fasting animal, the juice 
secreted having no food to act on will produce erosion and inflammation 
of the intestinal walls. Dixon's and Hamil's work has greatly elucidated 
the question of the mechanism of pancreatic secretion. As Halliburton 
shows, according to these investigators, there are in the pancreas three 
precursors of enzymes, to wit, protrypsinogen, proamylase and prolipase. 
Secretin combines chemically or at any rate acts chemically on all three ; 
it liberates amylase and lipase from their precursors and these two active 
enzymes pass into the pancreatic juice. Further, it sets trypsinogen free 
from protrypsinogen, and trypsinogen passes into the juice, and lastly 
trypsinogen is converted into the active enzyme trypsin by the entero- 
kinase of the succus entericus. 

How then does enterokinase perform its activating functions ? It may 
be explained by the fact that it is capable of transforming the zymogen, 
trypsinogen, into the powerful enzyme trypsin. J. Mellanby and Wooley 
explain how this is. brought about, thus : trypsinogen is a complex con- 
sisting of trypsin united to a protein moiety, and, so long as the enzyme 
is combined in this way, it is inactive. Enterokinase is the proteolytic 
enzyme which absorbs and then digests this protein moiety, thus liberating 
the trypsin. Otto Cohnheim made another discovery with respect to sue- 
cwi entericus. The juice has no action on native proteins such as fibrin 
and white of e^g, but it does act on proteoses and peptones. Cohnheim 
termed the enzyme to which this is due erepsin. The discovery has been 
confirmed by other observers, but it has also been found that erepsin or a 
similar enzyme is present in most of the tissues, and, according to Vernon, 
it is most abundant in the kidney. 



SUMMARY 159 

Gastric Digestion. — The problem of gastric digestion has greatly occu- 
pied the studious attention of research physiologists for several decades. 
Especial interest has been taken and numerous investigations have been 
nuule to determine the extent and manner of the participation of the 
stomach in the essential processes of digestion and the role played by 
the intestinal tract in this all-important function. It is now believed 
by many that the stomach is unimportant as a digestive organ, and that 
its main, if not only, purpose is to serve as a receptacle for the masti- 
cated foodstuffs. It is argued that the small intestine, on account of the 
various juices which are poured into it, is easily capable of acting as 
the digestive agent of the entire body. 

The wonderful digestive properties of the body have been amply 
demonstrated experimentally by excising the stomachs of dogs and by 
uniting the esophagus with the small intestine. This radical operation 
in no way impaired the activity of their digestive functions. It is even 
stated that dogs which had undergone this operation were able to digest 
putrefying meats without the aid of the antiseptic action of the gastric 
juice. At any rate, recent physiological investigations have proven that 
the digestion in the stomach is by no means so complete as was formerly 
thought. However, the stomach in its capacity is a digestive organ and 
does perform at least one important function, that of partially digesting 
protein. The small intestine can not only digest protein, but also fats, 
starches and sugars. The stomach does the preliminary work of warm- 
ing, maceration and chymification of the food, and thus relieves the small 
intestine of a good deal of work in the final processes of digestion. (See 
Volume I, Chapter V.) 

Summary. — The paramount importance of enzymes and hormones in 
the physiology of digestion and absorption is now completely evident. In- 
deed, so far as intestinal digestion and absorption are concerned, the en- 
zymes stimulated by the hormones are doubtless the main factors. When 
the work of these internal secretions becomes impeded the entire ma- 
chinery of the alimentary tract gets out of order and disease and ill health 
are the result. 

KEFERENCES 

1. Pavlov, Ivan Petrovich. The Work of Digestive Glands, trans- 

lated by Thompson, 1902. 

2. Beveridge. :Nr. Y. Med. J., vol. ci, June 26, 1915. 

3. Starling. Text-book of Physiology. 

4. Howell, W. H. Text-book of Physiology. 



160 PHYSIOLOGY OF ENZYMES AND HOEMONES 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Atwater. Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Foods. 

Farmer's Bull. 142, U. S. Dep. Agric. 
and Bryant. The Chemical Composition of American Food 

Materials. Bull. 28, Revised, Off. exper. stations, U. S. Dep. 

Agric. 
Bayliss. The Nature of Enzyme Action, 1908. 
Bbedio. Die Elemente der chemischen Kinetik, mit besonderer Berlick- 

sichtigung der Katalyse und der Fermentwirkung. Ergebn. d. 

Physiol., i, 134-212. 
Cohen. Organic Chemistry, 1007, chap. ix. 
Green. Soluble Ferments and Fermentation, 1904. 
Howell. Text-book of Physiology. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics, 1907. 

KoNio. Chemie der menschlichen Nahrungs- und GenussmitteL 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis, 2nd ed., 1909. 
Oppenheimer. Ferments and Their Actions, 1901. 
Ott. Text-book of Physiology. 
Starling. Text-book of Physiology. 
Vernon. Intracellular Enzymes, 1908. 
Wiley. Foods and Their Adulteration, 1907. 



CHAPTER VII 

PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 
John C. Hemmeter, M.D., Ph.D., Sc.D., LL.D. 

Absorptive Powers of the Digestive Organs: Absorption in the Stomach; 

Absorption in the Small Intestine; Absorption in the Large Intestine; 

Absorption in the Rectum. 
Absorption of Food: Absorption of Fats; Absorption of Carbohydrates; 

Absorption of Proteins — Amino-acids. 
Role of White Corpuscles. 
Diffusion; Dialysis and Osmosis. 

In previous chapters the chemical and physical processes, by which the 
food taken into the digestive apparatus is gradually transformed into 
such chemical substances as are suitable to become integral constituents 
of the body, have been described. 

These transformations constitute what is usually referred to as "diges- 
tion," and the average practitioner thinks no further of this process. But 
it is clear that the significance of the digestive process for the welfare 
of the organism does not depend so much upon what is ingested nor 
upon what is digested as upon the quality, quantity and chemical consti- 
tution of the end products of digestion that are permitted to enter that 
large cell state, designated as the living body. The study of absorption, 
therefore, is more essential to a correct understanding of human dietetics 
than the chemistry of digestion. 

Quantity and Quality of Food Ingested. — An important factor to be taken 
into consideration is the quantity and quality of food that is ingested. 
Excesses of food are as injurious as unsuitable food. The object of the 
dietitian should be to ascertain the character and quantity of food best 
adapted to conserve the physical powers and mental faculties of the indi- 
vidual and to instruct him to partake of such food with due discretion. By 
following this path diseases may be avoided and happy and healthy old 
age reached. 

161 



162 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTIOIs" 

Physiological Test. — What then constitutes a food regime which will go 
far to ward oif ill health and be an important factor in the conservation of 
the physical and mental capacities at their highest point? In order that 
a food should supply the necessary energy or driving power, as well as 
sustaining power, Hutchison, when discussing the ternary food elements, 
points out that "it is not enough that it should contain a considerable pro- 
portion of protein, carbohydrates and fat, and should be capable of yield- 
ing energy on oxidation." The caloric value of a food is of the utmost 
moment, but food must also be of such a nature that it can be easily di- 
gested in the stomach and more or less completely absorbed into the blood. 
A great many substances might readily pass the chemical and physical 
tests and yet be of no value as food if they could not be digested and 
absorbed. Hence, the manner in which food behaves in the stomach and 
intestine must be taken into consideration before any opinion can be pro- 
nounced upon its value as an article of diet. 

This then may be termed the 'physiological test. The expression di- 
gestihility is employed in a different sense by the physiologist, by the 
layman and, indeed, by the physician. When the physiologist applies 
the term "indigestible" to an article of diet, he means that such food is 
imperfectly absorbed into the blood. To avoid confusion, however, we 
will adhere to the popular usage of the expression "digestibility," and 
employ the term "absorbability," as suggested by Hutchison, to indicate 
the ease with which the constituents of a food can pass from the stomach 
and intestine into the circulation. 

The ease with which food is or is not absorbed Is a fairly accurate crite- 
rion of its value. If it is absorbed with difficulty it is not a suitable food. 
A number of experiments have been carried out in recent years with the 
view to ascertaining the degree to which the different constituents of 
various foodstuffs are absorbed into the blood and lymph. The majority 
of these were conducted in Europe. A few have been done in this 
country. 

The following table, from researches by Rubner and Atwater, sum- 
marizes the results in round numbers. 

The mode of experiment consists in analyzing the food to be inves- 
tigated, and then, from an examination of the feces, ascertaining the pro- 
portions of its protein, carbohydrate and fat which escape absorption. 
An analysis of this kind does not reveal accurately the proportion of 
nitrogen and fat of the feces which is derived from other sources than 
the food ingested. However, the important point is this : by some diets 
more nitrogen and fat are excreted from the body than by others. Irre- 



ABSORPTIVE POWERS OF DIGESTIVE ORGANS 163 



Percentage of Protein, Fat and Carbohydrates Absorbrd from Dry Substances 

IN Vakiois Foods 



Meats and Fish 

K^'Jis 

Milk 

Hutter 

MarjiJirine 

Fine Wlieat Bread.. . . 

Mai/e ^leal 

Macaroni 

Rice 

Peas 

Beans 

French Beans 

Potato puree (in sma 

quantities 

Potatoes in general. , . 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Beet Root 



Dry 
Substance 



05 
91 



05 ;i 

03 

95 

96 

99 

82 

85 



80i 

85 

79 



Protein 



I'ractieally all 

Practically all 

SS to 100 



HI to 100 

89 

81 

84 

82i 

70 



80i 

70 

8U 

61 

72 



Fat 



70 to 02 

96 
93 to 98 

08 

90 
? 

? 

7 
9 
? 



Carbohydrates 



00 
97 
97i 
99 

96i- 
? 



Practically all 
92* 

84i 

82 

82 



spective of the source, loss to the body is equally indicated. Therefore, 
each constituent of the food material should be considered separately. 
But before going into this phase of the subject the question of food 
absorption will be considered at greater length. 

Digestion means that food material is converted into an absorbable 
form. If foods are not absorbed, they cannot be assimilated and thus 
become in fact an integral part of the body, nor can their products be 
utilized for body energy. It follows then that digested food must dimin- 
ish in quantity as it passes along the alimentary tract, and that the feces 
contain only the undigested or indigestible residue. 



ABSORPTIVE POWERS OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS 



ABSORPTION IN THE STOMACH 

Absorption of food in the mouth and esophagus is very slight, if any, 
owing to the fact that the epithelium is thick and that the food passes 
quickly through these parts. In the stomach, absorption is also slight. It 
is possible that there may be absorption of the following substances : water ; 
salts, sugars and dextrins that may have been ingested as such ; the prote- 
oses and peptones formed in the peptic digestion of proteins or albuminoids. 
In addition absorption of soluble or liquid substances, drugs, alcohol, etc., 
may occur. The most recent observations seem to show that alcohol is 



164 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

absorbed to some extent. It was formerly assumed without definite proof, 
that the stomach absorbed easily such things as water, salts, sugars and 
peptones. Nevertheless, actual experiments made under conditions as 
nearly normal as possible have demonstrated that absorption in the 
stomach does not readily take place, at least not with the ease that it 
takes place in the intestine. 

Experiments Showing the Actual Course of Digestion. — Methods of 
various kinds have been employed in such experiments, but the classical 
one and that most productive of results was the establishment of a fistula 
immediately beyond the pylorus. When a fistula in this situation has 
been made, food may be given to the animal and the contents of the 
stomach extracted and examined as it passes out through the pyloric 
opening. 

In a series of Dapers published by London a few years ago and 
referred to by Starling, the course of digestion for various kinds of meals 
was observed in dogs which had been provided with fistula? in one of the 
following places: (a) gastric fistulse (into the fundus of the stomach); 
(h) pyloric fistula? (on the duodenal side of the pylorus) ; (c) duodenal 
fistulse (on the duodenal side of the pylorus; (d) duodenal fistulse (about 
one foot below the pylorus) ; (e) jejunal fistulse (about the middle of the 
small intestine) ; (/) ileum fistulse (just below the cecum). A meal com- 
posed of 200 grams of bread which the animal ate and swallowed, mixed 
with saliva, was used for the experiment. Previous to the arrival of the 
food in the stomach, the psychic secretion of gastric juice had been started 
by the vagi ; the food hormones and gastric hormones continued the secre- 
tion and formed a series of special experiments in which the average 200 
grams of bread were found to excite the secretion of 20 grams of saliva, 
about 10 grams of mucus from the coats of the stomach and about 315 
grams of gastric juice. 

COURSE IN THE STOMACH.— According to London's researches, quoted 
by Starling, "the secretion of gastric juice was continuous during the 
entire time that the food remained in the stomach. In the animal with 
a pyloric fistula, one or two minutes after the meal had been given, a 
few drops of alkaline fluid were extruded from the opening. From 
three to eight minutes after the conclusion of the meal small quanti- 
ties of clear acid gastric juice were repeatedly extruded. The first 
admixture of the food with the outflow from the fistula occurred at 
eight or twelve minutes after the completion of the meal, and after this 
time the pylorus continued to open at regular intervals of ten to forty 
seconds, discharging each time a small amount of fluid composed of par- 



ABSORPTIVE POWERS OF DIGESTIVE ORGANS 165 

tides of undigested bread mixed with gastric juice. One and a half 
hours later the pylorus began to open less regularly and the fluid became 
of a more pasty consistence, devoid of lumps of undigested bread. In 
the fourth, fifth and sixth hours after the meal, the pylorus opened only 



Vundus of stomach 



(Esophagus (pars abdominalis) 



Cardia 



I 



Sphincter pylori, 
Pyloric valve 




Tunica mucosa 



Tela submucosa 



Tunica 
muscularia 



Tunica serosa 
Plicae mucosa 



Duodenum 
(pars superior) 



Pars pylorica 



Fig. 15. — View of the Interior of the Stomach. The tunica mucosa, tunica mus- 
cularis, tunica serosa, tela submucosa and plicae mucosae. (Allen's "Anatomy.") 



once every two or three minutes, and towards the end of this period, the 

fluid extruded was clear. The following table shows the percentage of 

food ingested which left the stomach at the end of each hour after the 

meal: 

First hour 32.6 per cent 

Second hour 17.0 per cent 

Third hour 29.5 per cent 

Fourth hour 187 per cent 

Fifth hour 6.66 per cent 

Sixth hour 4.21 per cent 



166 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

The large proportion of the ingested food leaving the stomach during the 
first two or three hours can hardly be regarded as normal. Since in these 
experiments there was a free outflow from the pylorus and the food was 
not allowed to enter the duodenum, the local reflex evoked by the pres- 
ence of acid in the duodenum was absent. The gastric contents obtained 
in this way were analyzed in order to find what changes had been wrought 
upon the food by the gastric juice. It was found that 32 per cent of the 
bread had been brought into solution. This solution had affected the 
proteins more than the carbohydrates. Thus 67 per cent of the proteins 
had been brought into soluble form, consisting chiefly of albumoses and 
peptones. No amino-acids were found. Only 25 per cent of the starch 
of the bread had been rendered soluble, and of this, 21 per cent was in 
the form of dextrin and 4 per cent in the form of sugar. Tobler, who 
worked with exact physiologic conditions, found that 20 to 30 per cent 
of the nitrogen of meat is absorbed from the stomach ( 1 ) . 

DUODENAL DIGESTION.— "The influence exerted by the pancreatic 
juice, bile and succus entericus, poured out on the food in the duodenum, 
was studied by analysis of the intestinal contents leaving the intestine 
through a fistula, either at the lower end of the duodenum, in the jeju- 
num, or in the ileum. Prom the duodenal fistula the expulsion of food 
occurred at repeated intervals, but in a somewhat irregular fashion. Its 
movements were- determined partly by the contractions of the stomach 
and partly by those of the duodenal wall. Usually a large gush was fol- 
lowed by a series of small gushes. Although only a foot intervened be- 
tween the duodenal and the pyloric fistulse, a great difference was ob- 
served in the character of the intestinal contents obtained in the two cases. 
The outflow from the duodenum, being mixed with the pancreatic juice 
and the bile, was yellow in color and increased in amount. With a meal 
of 200 grams there was secreted on the average 130 grams of bile and 
140 grams of pancreatic juice. During the passage of the meal through 
the duodenum the carbohydrates of the food underwent considerable 
changes, so that even one foot below the pylorus we found that one-half to 
three-fifths of the carbohydrates had been converted into dextrin and 
sugar. A further digestion of the proteins also took place, amounting to 
about one-tenth of the whole protein taken with the food. On deducting 
the amount of juices which had been added to the food, it was found 
that even over this short length of intestine absorption of about one-sixth 
of the ingested food had taken place — about one-fourth of the carbo- 
hydrates and about one-eighth of the proteins. 

LOWER INTESTINAL DIGESTION.— 'In a dog with a fistula about the 



ABSORPTIVE POWERS OF DIGESTIVE ORGANS 167 

middle of its small intestine, the outtiow began six to fifteen minutes after 
the meal, and lasted six or seven hours. The outflow was by small gushes 
repeated at intervals of five to ten seconds, separated by intervals of one 
to five minutes, during which nothing appeared at the orifice of the can- 
nula. The material obtained was cpiite different from that which fiowed 
from the duodenal fistula ; the pasty consistency had disappeared and the 
material formed a frothy, orange-yellow, jelly-like mass with practically 
no trace of undigested bread." 

DIGESTION IN THE ILEUM.— "From a fistula in the ileum the outflow 
occurred at long intervals of three to fifteen minutes, was much scantier 
than that obtained from the jejunal fistula, and consisted of a thick 
jelly-like, orange-colored mass. Both proteins and carbohydrates were 
entirely digested, and in the case of the former the chief products of diges- 
tion consisted of amino-acids. Thus in one experiment, after four large 
meals of 500 grams of meat each had been given in order to obtain suffi- 
cient quantity for analysis, 175 grams of soluble substances were ob- 
tained. From this were isolated tyrosin, leucin, alinin, aspartic acid, 
lysin, and traces of arginin and histidin." 

DIGESTION IN THE CECUM.— "From a fistula in the cecum there was 
no outflow until four or five hours after the meal had been taken. The 
material from the gut was then expelled in fecal-like masses at long inter- 
vals of one-half to one hour. The regular outflow lasted for about six 
hours. The reaction of the contents was strongly alkaline, with no food 
particles, and the material contained merely debris of cells, with small 
traces of sugar, dextrin and unaltered starch. The absorption of the 
foodstuffs was practically complete by the time the food had reached the 
lower end of the small intestine." 

The foregoing account of investigations to determine the actual course 
of digestion and absorption is somewhat premature, as it treats of the 
small intestine as well as of the stomach. Still although anticipating the 
trend of this chapter, it introduces the whole question of absorption from 
the point of view of experimental research. 

Absorption of Water. — To revert again to absorption in the stomach in 
particular, experiments have shown that water when taken alone is prac- 
tically unabsorbed in the stomach. It has been demonstrated that as soon 
as water is introduced into the stomaeli it commences to pass into the in- 
testine, being forced out in a series of spurts by the contractions of the 
stomach. Within a comparatively short time practically all the water 
can be recovered in this way, very little having been absorbed. J. von 
Mering was the first to prove experimentally that water is not absorbed 



168 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

from the stomach. Starling in his "Human Physiology" accepts the 
fact that the absorption of water in the stomach may be regarded as nil. 
Although from this viscus, alcohol and possibly peptone and sugar may 
be absorbed to a slight extent, water or saline fluids introduced into it 
are passed through the pylorus either without change or are increased 
by the secretion of fluid from the gastric glands. Howell holds that 
alcohol is absorbed readily from the stomach and Hutchison, Chittenden, 
Mendel and others are in agreement with the view. Starling and Halli- 
burton, however, state that alcohol may be absorbed by the stomach to a 
slight extent. 

Absorption of Salts. — The question of the absorption of salts from the 
stomach has not been thoroughly investigated. Brandl is authority for 
the statement that sodium iodid is absorbed very slowly and that dilute 
solutions of it are not absorbed at all. Its absorption becomes important 
only when its solutions reach a concentration of three per cent or more. 
Howell is of the opinion that this result, if applicable to all the soluble 
inorganic salts, would indicate that under ordinary conditions they are 
practically not absorbed in the stomach, since it may be supposed that 
they are not normally swallowed in solutions as concentrated as 3 per 
cent. Solutions of strychnin are absorbed with difliculty from the stom- 
ach, as compared with the intestines, rectum, or even the pharynx. It is 
said that the absorption of sodium iodid is greatly facilitated by the use 
of condiments — such as mustard, pepper or alcohol — which act either by 
causing a greater hyperemia of the mucous membrane or perhaps by 
directly stimulating the epithelial cells. Salts do not appear to be ab- 
sorbed in the stomach unless present in great concentrations such as do 
not occur in normal diets. 

Absorption of Sugar and Peptones.--Although the absorption of sugars 
and peptones in the stomach is accomplished with difliculty, experiments 
by the more recent methods have shown conclusively that sugars and pep- 
tones may be so absorbed. In the course of the investigations different 
forms of sugar — dextrose, lactose, saccharose (cane sugar), maltose and 
dextrin — were tested with the result that it was found they were all sus- 
ceptible of absorption ; but the more concentrated the solutions the greater 
was the absorption. Brandl has reported that dextrose and peptone are 
not sensibly absorbed until the concentration has reached 5 per cent. 
With these substances also the ingestion of condiments or of alcohol in- 
creases distinctly the absorptive processes in the stomach. Examination 
of the mucous membrane of a stomach in full digestion shows that it con- 
tains albumoses (Glaessner) — a fact that indicates some absorption. Di- 



r 



ABSORPTIVE POWERS OF DIGESTIVE ORGANS 169 

rect examination of the stomach contents demonstrates that the products 
of peptic action beyond the albumose stage — namely, the peptones, pep- 
tids and amino-bodies — are absorbed. On the whole, however, it would 
seem that sugars and peptones are absorbed with difficulty in the stomach. 

Absorption of Fat — So far as is known at present, fats are only 
absorbed after they have reached the small intestine and mainly by the 
agency of the lymphatic vessels. Fats must be emulsified and saponified 
before they can be absorbed, and, as said before, the process is not under- 
gone until the small intestine is reached. Accordingly, fats undergo no 
digestive changes in the stomach except when eaten in the emulsified 
form, as in milk. It is probable that the gastric fat hydrolysis described 
by Volhard was due to a liapase as it regurgitates from the duodenum. 

There is a histologic reason for the incapability of the stomach to 
function as an organ of absorption. The oxyntic, parietal cells and the 
chief central cells of the peptic ducts stand so closely packed in the greater 
part of this organ that little epithelium is left for absorption. Only in 
the pyloric antrum are there surface cells in sufficient number to effect 
absorption. It is believed by some that the process of absorption by the 
stomach is much more in the nature of a mere physical osmosis and dialy- 
sis than is the case in the intestine, and that the process is accompanied 
by the pouring out of a good deal of secretion. Perhaps it is in this way 
that a mixture of alcohol and sugar such as is found in sweet wines and 
some malt liquors may cause acidity. 

ABSORPTION IN THE SMALL INTESTINE 

The small intestine, with the folds and villi that increase its surface, is 
the main place for absorption. The superficial area of the small intestine, 
if it were flat, would be about 115 square meters. By the presence of 
the villi this is increased about 42 square meters. Absorption begins in 
the duodenum, and the products of digestion have largely disappeared 
by the time the intestinal contents reach the ileocecal valve at the com- 
mencement of the large intestine. 

Absorption of Saline Solutions and Water. — Absorption takes place 
very rapidly in the small intestine and naturally the chief absorption 
of water and saline fluids occurs in the viscus. A striking example of 
this fact is afforded by the production of dilatation of the stomach w^ith 
stenosis of the pyloric orifice by water-starvation of the body. While 
this condition can frequently be relieved by introducing water subcuta- 
neouslv or bv the rectal route, water given by the mouth only increases 



170 



PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTIO:^' 



the dilatation and does not quench the intense thirst of the patient. The 
explanation of this is that the water administered subcutaneously or by 




Fio 16.— Stomach, Ixtkstixes and Mesentery; Vessels and Lacteals. A, mesen- 
teric arteries and veins; B, lacteals; C, mesentery; D, stomach; E, pylorus; F, 
duodenum; G, jejunum; H, ileum; I, artery of Fundus; K, omentum. (Flint's 
•Thysiology.") 

the rectum reaches the parts of the body where absorption is possible; 
whereas, if introduced into the stomach, it must get into the intestine 



\ 



AB80KPT1VE TOWEKS OK DTCKSTIVK ORGANS 171 

before it is absorbed. It must bo borne in luind that almost all the water 
taken by the mouth is absorbed in the small intestine, and that but a 
very small quantity remains to bo absorbed in the large intestine, and, as 
said before, the amount absorbed in the stomach is so small as to be almost 
a negligible quantity. Thus the point may be again emphasized that in 
the absorption of water the small intestine is not only the chief agent, 
but practically the sole means by which water taken by the mouth is 
absorbed. 

COURSE OF WATER IN THE SYSTEM— INTRODUCTION. — Water is in- 
troduced into the body by three methods — by drinking, by eating foods 
which contain water, by receiving water into the system through oxida- 
tion of the hydrogen of food substances — for example, the end products 
of carbohydrate metabolism, COo and HoO. 

The problem of exactly how absorption in the small intestine is 
brought about is one that has not been wholly solved and during recent 
years physiologists have investigated the subject very closely. 

It is knov^Ti that the mucous membrane of the small intestine absorbs 
rapidly, but the means whereby this process is effected still remains, to 
a great extent, an unsettled physiological problem. 

Howell has drawn attention to the fact that physiologists were wont 
to assume that absorption took place exclusively through the central lac- 
teals of the villi, hence these vessels were described as the absorbents. 
It is now known that the digested and resynthesized fats are absorbed 
by way of the lacteals, but that the other products of digestion are ab- 
sorbed mainly through the blood vessels and therefore enter the portal 
system and pass through the liver before reaching the general circulation. 

The mechanism of absorption, as now understood, and as stated by 
the foremost physiologists, will be somewhat briefly described. 

LYMPHATIC ABSORPTION.— First, the mechanism of absorption of 
water will be entered into. The villi, of course, are the processes con- 
cerned in the absorption that goes on in the small intestine, and in lym- 
phatic absorption it is the lacteals of the villi that do the work. The villi 
are main organs of absorption. It is said that the total number of villi 
in the whole of the small intestine may be computed at four to five 
million; owing to the fact that the villi project, each square centimeter 
of the intestine gains about twenty-three times in area. The villi then 
are special structures for absorption purposes situated on the mucous 
membrane of the small intestine (it may be termed a basement mem- 
brane) ; they project as finger-like processes, presenting a striated basilar 
border on the side towards the lumen of the intestine. Each villus is 



172 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTIOE" 

made up of loose lymphoid tissue containing leucocytes, and is covered 
Avith and separated from the gut by columnar epithelial cells. It con- 
tains in its interior a plexus of blood capillaries and some commencing 
lymphatic or lacteal vessels^ placed in a central position. One of these, 
situated in the middle of the villus, is known as the central lacteal. 
The central lacteal and lymphatics which are in proximity to it are 
located superficially to the muscularis mucosae. These possess no valves. 
Those in the deeper plexus are provided with an abundance of valves. 
Fluid, therefore, can flow in one direction only from the superficial 
lacteals to the deeper plexus. Unstriated muscular fibers pass up through 
the villus and are partly adherent to the outer surface of the central 
lacteal and partly by their extremities to the membrane covering the sur- 
face of the villus. When these muscles contract, the central lacteal is 
emptied into the deep plexus of the lymphatics, whence it is unable to 
return, and the contraction of these fibers may also cause a flow into the 
central lacteal. It has been demonstrated repeatedly by experiments on 
dogs that the formation of lymph is constantly going on in the alimentary 
tract, even when at rest. 

ABSORPTION BY CAPILLARY BLOOD VESSELS OF THE VILLUS.— The 
capillary blood vessels supply the other means by which the small intes- 
tine is enabled to exercise its great absorbent properties. The villi have 
a dense network of blood capillaries immediately underneath their epi- 
thelial covering. All the blood capillaries of the intestinal tract are 
radicals of the portal vein, while the lacteal ducts ar^ radicals of the 
abdominal lymphatics. There are some difficulties in the way of a clear 
and cogent explanation of absorption by these blood vessels. However, 
it has been shown that salt solutions introduced into the small intestine 
are absorbed rapidly. This rapid absorption does not produce a corre- 
sponding rapid rate of increase of lymph flow from the thoracic duct. 
Conversely, when large amounts of fluids are absorbed an actual diminu- 
tion of the solids of the plasma may be caused. Consequently, there is 
justification for the belief that the dense network of blood capillaries 
underneath their epithelial covering are the agents solely responsible for 
the absorption. 

For a long time the theory that osmosis provided a sufficient expla- 
nation of all the phenomena of absorption was generally accepted, mainly 
perhaps because it was such a delightfully easy mode of getting over 
the difficulty. According to Dr. Julius Pohlmann, writing in the Refer- 
ence Handbook of the ^ledical Sciences, 1913, the work assigned to the 
cells of the different parts of the digestive tract concerned in absorption 



ABSOKPTIVE POWERS OF DIGESTIVE ORGANS 173 

is first to keep themselves in good condition. Secondly, to pick out from 
the contents of the tract such suhstances as the body wants and pass them 
into the circulation. It is safe to assert that normal absorption is a 



Teritt'^orr^^ 



^.V^^^A 



JiSuMaviiot-Veut, 



'^V.^yos 



^^9^ 



IfL. 



"horadcDiLci 




lit o ixm^ 
I'eiro 



'tacC/u/li 



Fig. 17.— Lymphatics of the Trunk, Including the Thoracic Duct. 
(Allen's "Anatomy.") 



174 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTIOX 

living, not a mechanical, act, and that osmosis, as a factor in these phe- 
nomena, must not alone be taken into account. However, the question 
of osmosis will be considered at some length in a later part of this 
chapter. The villi, therefore, in conjunction with the blood capillaries 
lying under the basement membrane of the villus, are the main factors 
promoting absorption of water and saline fluids in the small intestine. 
Kegarding the absorption of food in the small intestine, Howell 
records observations made by Macfadden, ]S[encki and Sieber upon a 
patient with a fistula at the end of the small intestine. In a patient in 
this condition food begins to pass into the large intestine in from two 
to five and a quarter hours after eating and it requires nine or more 
hours before the last of the meal has passed the ileocecal valve. This 
estimate includes the time in the stomach. During this passage absorp- 
tion of the digested products takes place almost completely. This, how- 
ever, does not necessarily signify that all individuals require this length 
of time for complete digestion, as observations made by the radiograph 
ofttimes indicate that it may be reduced by over seven hours. After 
referring to the point as to whether the known physical laws of diffusion, 
osmosis, dialysis and imbibition are sufficient to effect the absorption or 
whether seme unknown activities of the living epithelial cells are re- 
sponsible for the process, Howell concludes that absorption as it actually 
takes place is not governed simply by known physical laws. The villi, 
then, in conjunction with the blood capillaries lying under the basement 
membrane of the villus, are the main factors promoting absorption in 
the small intestine. Pohlmann puts the absorbing power of the small 
intestine at about equal to the task of taking up the quantity of fluid 
formed by the action of the digestive ferments plus the quantity of fluids 
secreted by the pancreas, liver and intestinal glands, and thus, as these 
quantities combined do not represent the total amount of fluid present, 
the contents of the small intestine remain fluid throughout its entire 
length. 

ABSORPTION IN THE LARGE INTESTINE 

Experiments on dogs have demonstrated that after the contents 
of the small intestine have passed the ileocecal valve, they still contain 
an amount of unabsorbed food. It is a matter of common knowledge 
that the material remains for a long time in the large intestine, and 
seeing that this contains the digestive enzymes received in the duodenum 
it may be taken as proven that the digestive and absorptive processes 
continue in the large intestine. Halliburton states that absorption in 



ABSORPTIVE POWERS OF DIGESTIVE ORGANS 175 

the large intestine, mainly of water, occurs, but to a less extent than in 
the small intestine. Starling holds that as an absorbing organ the human 
large intestine is of little ini|><)rtan('e. 

Absorption of Water. — An interesting feature of the large intestine 
is the marked absorption of water therein. It has been shown that water 
is absorbed in large quantities in the small intestine, but this is due to 
osmosis or secretion. As Howell states, the absorption of water in the 
large intestine is not compensated by secretion; the material loses water 
rapidly while in the ascending colon, and before it reaches the descend- 
ing colon it has acquired the consistency of the feces. 

Halliburton says that foods such as water and soluble salts are ab- 
sorbed unchanged, and it has been calculated from observations on fistulse 
in man that about 500 c.c. of water pass the ileocecal valve during the 
twenty-four hours and of these 400 c.c. or thereabouts are absorbed in 
the large intestine. Starling and Halliburton regard the absorptive 
powers of the large intestine as slight, except with regard to water and 
salt solution. Howell thinks that absorption continues in the large intes- 
tine, while Pohlmann refers to the well-known high absorbing powers of 
the large intestine. There is little doubt, however, that absorption is 
very considerably slower in the large than in the small intestine. This 
fact appears to have been shown by observations made with regard to 
the absorption results from feeding by the rectum. 

It is, however, well known that salts and water are freely absorbed 
from the large intestine, and the advantages claimed for rectal feeding 
may be largel}^ due to these ingredients. Langdon Brown, whose viewe 
on the subject were published in the proceedings of the British Royal 
Society of Medicine, points out that the body can stand deprivation of 
food for a considerable time if salts and water are supplied. W. Pasteur 
advocated the administration of 10 oz. enemata of plain water at a 
temperature of 100° P. every four or six hours. He claimed that the 
results were as good as with the nutrient enemata. ' 

As to the absorption of protein as evidenced by the results of rectal 
feeding, Voit and Bauer found it advisable to add sodium chlorid to 
assist absorption of albumin protein, though Ewald and Czemy dispute 
this conclusion. Leube stated that he had been able to maintain life for 
six months on a mixture of meat and pancreas. Edsall and Miller, using 
milk and eggs with pancreatic extract, found that from 40 to 47 per cent 
were absorbed. Sharkey, using milk and powdered casein, found an 
absorption of 50 to 75 per cent. These figures seem to indicate that pro- 
tein is absorbed with considerable freedom from the large intestine. 



176 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTION 

Langdon Brown thinks there is an important fallacy in these tests, becavise 
they are based on the amount of protein which could be recovered from 
the bowel on washing it out. It is notoriously difficult, however, to remove 
the bowel contents completely in this way, and in any event some of the 
protein which disappears may have been reduced by putrefactive changes 
into a form in which it has no nutritional value. According to Boyd, 
absorption of protein material in the large intestine seems to depend 
more on the patient's individual capacity than on the amount given. 
Normally carbohydrates are absorbed as dextrose by the bowel, and this 
fonn of food appears to be the most fully utilized in the large intestine. 
Starling has stated that the isolated large intestine of man is able to 
absorb only about six grams of dextrose per hour and about 80 c.c. of 
water. On the other hand, that dextrose is definitely absorbed from the 
bowel is proved by the following facts : Reach found that the respiratory 
quotient was raised by rectal feeding of dextrose, a sure sign that this 
was being utilized by the tissues, and the acidosis of delayed chloro- 
form poisoning or of inanition in esophageal stricture has been reduced 
or abolished by this procedure. It is well known that acidosis is pro- 
duced quickly by deprivation of carbohydrates, and it is just as well 
known that the assimilation of carbohydrates rapidly abolishes the 
condition. 

With regard to the absorption of fats from the large intestine, opin- 
ion seems to be greatly divided. It must be borne in mind that even the 
finest emulsion of fat is only absorbed by the action of a fat-splitting 
ferment. In a normal state of the body the pancreatic juice supplies 
this ferment and in its absence reliance must be placed upon bacterial 
decomposition. Of course the ferment can be provided by liquor pan- 
creatitis, but it does not follow then that absorption will be satisfactory. 

Langdon Brown refers to observations made by Munk and Rosenstein 
on a patient with a fistula of the thoracic duct. He was first put on a 
diet very poor in fat, and the enemata of fat and salt were given. In 
one experiment 3.7 per cent and in another 5.5 per cent were absorbed. 
Boyd thinks that a considerable amount of fat may be absorbed from 
the large intestine, while Langdon Brown expresses himself as skeptical 
with regard to the absorption of fat from the bowel. Both he and Starling 
are of the opinion that the disappearance of proteins, emulsified fats and 
boiled starch, that is, when such disappearance from the large intestine 
is genuine, is due largely to the action of bacteria and as a reliable tes- 
timony to the absorptive powers of the large intestine carries little weight. 
Pohlmann characterizes the absorbing power of the large intestine 



ABSOKPTION OF FOOD 177 

as not limited to substances prepared by the action of the digestive fluids, 
but holds that it can absorb undigested food, such as white of egg, 
altliough it is probable that even here there is a splitting up of the pro- 
tein molecule into smaller molecules before absorption takes place. There- 
fore he asserts that nutrient enemata based uikju the knowledge have 
saved many lives. The opinions of eminent physiologists diverge con- 
siderably with respect to the absorptive powers of the large intestine. 
The whole matter is in a somewhat confused state. It is, however, likely 
that the powers of absorption of the large intestine have been unduly 
minimized by some physiologists. The fact must not be lost sight of 
that in the small intestine the villi are especially adapted for absorptive 
purposes, and that in the large intestine there are no villi. In the large 
intestine there are some solitary glands which perform as much absorp- 
tive work as can be expected from their limited number, but in the 
opinion of Pohlmann the mucous membrane of the large intestine is an 
important factor in absorption. 

As an excretory organ the large intestine of carnivora and civilized 
man plays a prominent role and perhaps its main value lies rather in its 
excretory functions than in its absorptive powers. 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 

[N'ow that the absorptive powers of the alimentary tract and the means 
or most probable means by which this process is accomplished have been 
considered, the next obvious subject for discussion is the absorption of 
the various kinds of foodstuffs. The substances to be absorbed are pep- 
tones, glucose and emulsified fats — the products of digestion ; in addition 
to water and various salts. It may be stated in a general way that foods 
such as water and soluble salts are absorbed unchanged. On the other 
hand, the organic foods are changed considerably. As pointed out pre- 
viously, absorption occurs mainly through the blood vessels by way of 
the portal tributaries, and through the lymphatic vessels or lacteals. 
Speaking broadly, the proteins and carbohydrates are absorbed by the 
blood capillaries of the villi and the fats by the lacteals. 

Halliburton, in common with all modern physiologists, does not 
attribute to known physical laws a complete explanation of the absorp- 
tion of food material in the body. It has been definitely proven that 
diffusion and osmosis occur in the intestine, but this does not mean that 
absorption proceeds solely from mechanical action. Such action plays a 



178 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

part, but in all likelihood a small part, in the absorption that goes on in 
a healthy human being. 

Much has yet to be learned regarding absorption, and as mentioned 
before the energy that controls absorption is doubtless some form of 
imbibition. Halliburton lays stress on the fact that a marked feature 
during absorption is the increased activity of the lymphocytes which lie 
beneath the epithelium; the number of these cells increases conspicu- 
ously. The surmise has therefore been advanced that these cells share 
in the work of transporting absorbed materials. 

ABSORPTION OF FATS 

Theories of Fat Absorption. — The manner in which the fats are ab- 
sorbed has long been a stumbling block to physiologists and numerous 
theories have been brought forward to explain the mode of fat absorp- 
tion. According to most recent views set forth by Howell, the emulsified 
neutral fat is either ingested directly by the epithelial cells, the fat drop- 
lets enter between the epithelial cells in the so-called cement substance, 
the fat droplets are ingested by leukocytes that lie between the epithelial 
cells or, lastly, that the fat is first split into fatty acid and glycerol and 
is absorbed in the epithelial cells in these forms. The last theory is that 
most greatly favored. While allowing that during digestion the epi- 
thelial cells contain fat droplets, Howell is of the opinion that these 
droplets are formed in situ by a synthesis of the absorbed glycerol and 
fatty acids. Even granting that the fat is absorbed in solution as fatty 
acids and glycerol, Howell still thinks that the mechanism of fat absorp- 
tion remains unexplained. The most favored theory of the mechanism of 
fat absorption, restated clearly, is that the emulsified fats are split into 
fatty acids and glycerol which are taken up by the epithelial cells and 
passed into the stroma of the villi, there to be reconverted into minute 
fat globules. 

Halliburton points out that in explaining the mechanism of fat 
absorption, the difficulty was to show how the fat first entered the col- 
umnar epithelium. Munk and, later, Moore and Lockwood, have demon- 
strated conclusively that fat is completely broken down in the intestine 
into glycerol and fatty acids. Preliminary emulsification is advantageous 
for the formation of these substances, but not essential. According to 
Halliburton, then, not only is fat entirely absorbed as glycerol and fatty 
acids, but the latter, in great measure, are first converted into soaps; 
that is, compounds of the fatty acids and alkalis. As Pohlmann remarks, 
it is a moot point as to whether fatty acids and glycerol pass directly 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 179 

into the lymph channels which traverse the villus and finally unite to 
form tlie lacteal, or whether the lymphocytes, so abundantly found in 
the stroma, carry the small fat globules from the epithelial cells directly 
into the lacteal. 

JMunk found out that the soap compounds of the fatty acids and 
alkalis pass readily through the striated borders of the intestinal epi- 
thelial cells; and these cells perform the synthetic act of building them 
into fat once more, the fat so formed appearing in the form of small 
globules, surrounding or becoming mixed with the protoplasmic granules 
that are ordinarily present. Munk also discovered as a result of his 
investigations that on feeding an animal on fatty acids the chyle con- 
tains fat, showing that the necessary glycerol must have been formed 
by protoplasmic activity during absorption. 

A chapter dealing with absorption of foodstuffs would be obviously 
incomplete without reference to the views of Starling, and attention may 
be drawn here to certain of that distinguished physiologist's statements 
concerning the absorption of fat. Arguing from the postulate that the 
fats eaten by an animal in excess of its daily requirements are stored up 
in the body in the form in which they are ingested, and that each cell of 
the body probably possesses in itself the mechanism for the utilization 
of these neutral fats and for effecting in them the various changes in- 
volved in the successive stages of their disintegration and oxidation 
through which they are finally converted to COg and water. Starling 
contends that the problem of fat absorption is ultimately one of the 
simplest with which we have to deal. It merely involves the transference 
of the neutral fat of the food to the circulating fluids in such a form 
that it can be carried by them to the place where it is required for the 
metabolism of the body or where it may be stored up as a reserve sub- 
stance. Wherever it is present in health fat should be regarded as food 
reserve, whether in the subcutaneous or intramuscular tissue, within the 
bones, or the cells of the cartilage, or of glandular, organs. In its wide 
distribution fat in the animal tissues may be compared to that of starch 
in the vegetable kingdom, though the glycogen of liver and muscle bears 
the closer resemblance. Yet fat and starch are physiologically inter- 
changeable. 

It may be further stated that after the removal of storage fat, its 
utilization, according to the hypothesis of Leathes, is brought about 
through the agency of the liver, in which such fat is transformed by a 
process of "desaturation" into fat-like bodies or lipoids, which are thence 
distributed in a utilizable form to the important organs of the body, 



180 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOEPTION 

including, of course, the liver itself. There is no space in this chapter 
to discuss at any length the elaborate and carefully-thought-out presen- 
tation of Starling's views. Among other salient points to v^hich refer- 
ence is made is the description by Brlicke of the muscular mechanism 
of absorption. This mechanism was commented on in an earlier part of 
the chapter when considering the manner in which absorption by the 
small intestine was carried out; namely, that repeated contractions of 
the muscle fibers of the villus would tend to empty the spaces into the 
central lacteal, and this in turn into the submucous plexus of lymphatics, 
so that the lymph in the spaces is constantly renewed and passes laden 
with absorbed fat particles into the valved lymphatics of the mesentery. 
Starling thinks it probable that the muscular mechanism of absorption 
plays an important part in the absorption of fat, although it is difficult 
to furnish any experimental proof of the manner in which this mech- 
anism works. 

An extremely important part is played by the bile as well as by the 
pancreatic juice in the process of absorption of fats. Bile aids the diges- 
tion of fat, the bile salts acting in the same way as the co-enzyme of 
pancreatic lipase. Bile is also a solvent of fatty acids and Halliburton 
suggests that it probably assists fat absorption by reducing the surface 
tension of the intestinal contents. Membranes moistened with bile allow 
fatty materials to pass through them more readily than would be other- 
wise the case. 

According to Moore and Lockwood, quoted by Howell, the reason that 
the bile salts aid the absorption of the split fats is probably because the 
bile salts dissolve the fatty acids readily and then bring them into con- 
tact in soluble form with the epithelial cells. If the intestine be deprived 
of its bile contents by drainage by means of a fistula from the gall bladder 
or duct, a great deal of the fatty food is not absorbed and can be found 
in the feces. It is easy by direct observation to prove that the lymphatic 
vessels take up the greater part of the fat ingested. To demonstrate this 
it is only necessary to examine the lymphatics of the intestine of an ani- 
mal after the administration of a meal rich in fats. These vessels are 
distended with milky chyle, while, according to Starling, the same fluid 
is found filling the cisterna lymphatica magna (receptaculum chyli) and 
the thoracic duct. It has been conclusively shown that a part, probably 
the greater part, of the fat absorbed from the intestine is conveyed thence 
by the lymphatic vessels to the venous circulation by which it is dis- 
tributed to the various tissues of the body. It has not been determined 
fts yet how it leaves the blood stream. 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 181 

But many experimeuts have shown that some of the fat which is 
absorbed does not travel by the way of the lymphatics and tlie thoracic 
duct. In fact, after deducting the amount of fat tliat escapes absorption 
and is lost in the feces, the amount that may be recovered from the 
thoracic duct is less than that taken in the food. 

Frank, referred to by Howell, has advanced the theory that some of 
the fat is absorbed directly by the blood vessels of the villi. The portion 
thns absorbed enters the portal vein and i)asses through the liver before 
reaching the general circulation. The liver holds back more or less of 
the fat taking this route, as it is found that during absorption the liver 
colls show an accumulation of fat droj)lets in their interior. Starling 
says that it is not known what happens to the fat that is not taken uj) 
by the lymphatics and holds that it is difficult to imagine that "any large 
proportion of this lost fraction is absorbed into the blood stream in the 
form of soaps," pointing out that Munk has shown soaps injected into 
the blood act as potent poisons. Emphasis may be laid upon the point 
that if absorption is active, the meshes of the villus contain a number 
of free fat granules and the leukocytes in these meshes are also generally 
found full of these granules. 

Function of the Leukocytes — Zawarykin and Schafer, referred to by 
Starling, impute an importance to the leukocytes in the transference of 
the granules from epithelial cells to the central lacteal. It was supposed 
that the leukocytes took up the fat granules extruded* by the epithelial 
cells at the base of the villi and thence found their way into the central 
lacteal, where they broke down, in this manner furnishing the molecular 
basis of the chyle as well as its protein constituents. Heidenhain was 
strongly opposed to the view and pointed out that many of the granules 
staining darkly with osmic acid were not necessarily fat and that the 
number of leukocytes within the villi were hardly sufficient to account 
for the amount of material observed. Renter is of the opinion that the 
epithelial cells take up fat in a dissolved condition through the striated 
border, and deposit it as granules of neutral fat in the inner portion of 
the protoplasm. From here the fat is passed on by the protoplasm by the 
side of the nucleus and extruded in the form of very fine granules in 
the deeper parts of the interepithelial clefts, which thus function as true 
excretory organs for the epithelial cells. 

The view is still held that the fats are taken up by the epithelial cells 
from the intestine as fine particles of neutral fat, the chief use of the 
pancreatic juice being to aid the formation of an emulsion of fat in the 
intestines. Starling does not agree with, this conception of the manner 



182 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

in which fats are absorbed and thinks there is little doubt they are ab- 
sorbed and dissolved in the bile either as soap or fatty acids; he states 
the objections to the former theory at some length, the chief of which is 
that bile does not dissolve neutral fats, but does exercise a strong solvent 
action on fatty acids and on all kinds of soaps. Therefore, fats to be 
fully absorbed must be broken up into fatty acids and soaps. It has 
been demonstrated by experiment that if bile be cut off by occlusion of 
the bile duct or by means of a biliary fistula, that only a small proportion 
of the fat is absorbed ; the larger unabsorbed portion is mostly found in 
the feces. This supplies conclusive evidence that the presence of bile 
in the intestine is essential for the normal absorption of fat. Ligature 
of the pancreatic duct also interferes with absorption. In all likelihood 
this result is due to the absence of the ferment of the pancreatic juice or 
lipase from the intestine. 

Extent of Fat Absorption. — It is interesting to note that the amount 
of fat that may be absorbed from the intestines varies with the nature of 
the fat, Howell points out that experiments show that the more fluid 
fats, such as olive oil, are absorbed more completely, that is, less is lost 
in the feces, than in the case of the more solid fats. Comparative experi- 
ments have given such results as the following: olive oil, absorption 
97.7 per cent; goose and pork fat, 97.5 per cent; mutton fat, 90 to 92.5 
per cent; spermaceti, 15 per cent. The amount of fat that may be lost 
in the feces varies also with other conditions. If, for instance, an excess 
is taken with the foods, or if the bile flow is diminished or suppressed, 
the percentage in the feces is increased. The usual amount of fat 
allowed in dietaries is from 100 to 120 grams daily. 

Hutchison has this to say regarding the absorbability of fat, that one 
generalization can be made with a fair amount of certainty. The loAver 
the melting point of the fat, the more completely is it absorbed, due to 
the fact that a fat which is fluid at the body temperature is more easily 
taken up into the blood than one which remains more or less solid. The 
following are illustrative examples: 

Melting Percentage 

Fat Point Unabsorbed 

Butter 37° C. 2% 

Bacon 48° C. 8^ 

Mutton fat 52° C. 10 

The total amount of fat which can be absorbed in one day is also a 
matter of some interest. It has been found by experiment that 150 grams, 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 183 

about 5l^ ounces, can be absorbed without appreciable loss. Above this 
point the waste increases considerably, but even when twice that quantity 
is taken the loss is less than 45 per cent. The practical deduction from 
these facts would seem to be that one need have no hesitation in ordering a 
patient, say a diabetic, to consume one quarter of a pound of butter every 
day. There is no likelihood of this quantity surpassing the absorptive 
powers of the intestine. 

Summary 

The processes involved in digestion and absorption of fat may be 
summed up as follows: hydrolytic cleavage of the neutral fats into 
fatty acids and glycerol is initial to absorption and combustion. In this 
process the gastric juice, the pancreatic juice and the succus entericus 
are all concerned. Also in those hydrolytic cleavages, in the velocity in 
which they occur in the body, the lipolytic action of the pancreatic juice 
and succus entericus is greatly aided and reinforced by the synergetic 
action of bile. Moore has shown that the solvent action of the bile is 
mainly owing to the bile salts and the presence therein of lecithin and 
cholesterin. The action of these strengthens the activity of the pancreatic 
juice, dissolves the fatty acids readily, and brings them in soluble form 
into contact with the epithelial cells. This lipolytic action forms glycerol, 
also fatty acids and soaps, in accordance with the acid or alkaline reac- 
tion of the medium. The alkaline soaps being soluble in water, the soaps 
of magnesium or calcium in bile and free fatty acids being soluble in 
bile acids, the fat is reduced to a condition rendering it soluble in the 
contents of the intestine, whatever their action may be. The fatty con- 
stituents are then taken up by the cells of the intestinal mucosa and 
synthesis takes place. Cleavage of the soaps ensues, fatty acids are set 
free, and after ridding themselves of water and combining with glycerol, 
form neutral fats which take the shape of small globules, becoming mixed 
with or surrounded by protoplasmic granules. As explained in an earlier 
part of the chapter, by active excretion these are pushed into the inter- 
cellular clefts and into the spaces of the villus; they are then expelled 
by the contractions of the muscle fibers of the villus into the central 
lacteal and finally to the thoracic duct by way of the mesenteric l^^m- 
phatics. Sixty per cent of the fat absorbed is accounted for in this 
manner. As to how the remaining 40 per cent is dealt with in the body 
there is no accurate means of finding out. It may enter the blood stream 
or it may be broken down in the tissues. At any rate, as Starling states, 



184 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

"under normal circumstances the utilization of fat is almost complete. 
By the time the intestinal contents have arrived at the lower end of the 
ileum 05 \)oy cent of the fat has been absorbed." Vaughan Harley found 
that the removal of the whole intestine did not affect fat absorption. 
Bayliss briefly summarizes the process of fat absorption as follows: 

Fats are hydrolyzed in the small intestine by the pancreatic juice and absorbed 
as glycerol and fatty acids, the latter for the most part in solution in bile. In 
the epithelium of the villi they are resynthesized to neutral fats, which pass into 
the lymph of the lacteal system and thence to the blood in a freely emulsified state. 

In a broad way this concise description is sufficient, but it hardly ex- 
plains all that is known concerning the absorption of fat in the body. In 
order to gain an accurate view of the present situation, so far as the 
opinions of authorities founded upon careful research are concerned, 
the description given here almost in full may be submitted for earnest 
consideration. 

ABSORPTION OF CARBOHYDRATES 

There is no doubt that the carbohydrates are more completely absorbed 
than any other nutrient material. For the most part carbohydrate food 
is absorbed as simple sugars, monosaccharids. All the sugar ingested 
finds its way into the circulation, and starch is only detected in the feces 
when eaten in a form notoriously difficult of digestion — green vegetables, 
or masses of coarse food, for instance. Vegetable food yields a much 
larger percentage of indigestible residue than animal food, and is in 
itself much less easily digested owing to the fact that it is more or less 
enclosed in cellulose, which is difficult to bring into solution, while ani- 
mal food is free. In addition, vegetable food, as a rule, is less easily 
absorbed, and, as it contains usually a less percentage of nitrogen, a much 
larger quantity is needed to furnish a certain amount of this element 
than in the case of animal food. Comparatively little sugar is absorbed 
in the stomach, and, as said before, the small intestine is the main 
absorbing organ for all classes of foodstuffs. Practically the whole of the 
carbohydrate constituents has been absorbed by the time the food has 
reached the ileocecal valve. However, views as to the absorptive powers 
of the stomach have changed and are changing considerably as the result 
of modern experiments. Pohlmann, referred to previously, draws atten- 
tion to the fact that although the stomach has no specialized organs of 
absorption, its whole mucous membrane may, under certain conditions, 
absorb some materials digested, such as peptones and glucose. So f&- 
as the absorptive powers of the stomach are concerned, neither of the 



ABSOJiPTION OF FOOD 185 

extreme views taken is correct. It is not merely a temporary receptacle 
for food, but can absorb peptones and glucose to a limited extent. It 
certainly does not possess the great absorptive properties that were 
formerly attributed to it. On the other hand, some absorption of the 
carbohydrates takes place in the stomach; dextrose, lactose, maltose, and 
saccharose and even dextrin may be absorbed by the mucous membrane 
of the stomach, and the more concentrated the solutions the more marked 
is the absorption. Glucose is absorbed mostly in the small and to some 
extent in the large intestine. 

Cane sugar and milk sugar are inverted in the small intestine by 
invertase and lactase, the first being converted to dextrose and levulose, 
the second to dextrose and galactose. Both of these are converted from 
disaccharids to monosaccharids before absorption. If an excess of these 
substances be taken they are partly absorbed without being inverted to 
simple sugar, and may be eliminated in the urine. The greater part of 
our carbohydrate food is eaten in the form of starch and the time required 
for the digestion and inversion of the starch involves a slower and more 
complete process of absorption. 

Course of Carbohydrates in the System. — On hydrolysis, saccharose 
yields dextrose plus levulose; maltose yields dextrose plus galactose. 
The process of hydrolysis takes place along the enteric tract, so that all 
disaccharids ingested as food are absorbed in the blood stream as mono- 
saccharids. 

As the result of numerous experiments it is generally held by physi- 
ologists that the carbohydrates pass into the body by the route of vessels 
of the portal system. As a seemingly convincing proof of the statement 
it may be mentioned that no more sugar is detected in lymph from the 
thoracic duct than is contained in arterial blood taken at the same time. 
On the other hand, an increased percentage of sugar in the portal blood 
during the absorption of a large carbohydrate meal has been observed 
by several investigators. An abundant quantity of carbohydrate food 
may be digested and absorbed in the course of a day and all of this may 
be found in the blood in the form of dextrose which enters the portal 
vein and is distributed to the liver. This food which enters the blood 
as dextrose is stored up in the liver as glycogen, a store of carbohydrate 
held in reserve for the future needs of "the body. By this means the 
amount of sugar in the general circulation is kept quite constant, accord- 
ing to Howell about 0.15. However, when a very large amount of carbo- 
hydrate food has been eaten it happens occasionally that the liver is 
unable to perform its functions of removing the excess completely. The 



186 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTION 

condition known as hyperglycemia may be brought about by an increased 
amount of sugar above the normal in the general circulation. The excess 
may be excreted in the urine and the condition denominated "alimentary 
glycosuria" will ensue. 

Starch may be eaten in greatly larger amounts than sugar and the 
percentage of sugar in the blood will not be raised thereby beyond the 
nonnal level. This is accounted for by the digestion of starch and sugar, 
that is, so far as is known concerning this matter. Dextrose is absorbed 
as such without being subjected to digestive processes, and cane sugar 
only requires conversion into dextrose and levulose before absorption. 
The action of ptyalin or amylase, and inversion subsequently by maltase, 
is needed before starch can be absorbed, and therefore, as pointed out 
previously, its absorption will be slower by far than that of the sugars. 
During this period, in the words of Howell, "The entire quantity of 
blood in the body is passed through the mesenteric arteries over and 
over again, and it is probable that even in the portal vein the quantity 
of sugar at any one moment rises but little above the normal level, and 
this small excess is held back by the liver cells, so that the systemic cir- 
culation is protected from becoming hyperglycemic. 

The behavior of the intestinal wall to the absorption of disaccharids 
and monosaccharids is a question of interest. According to Starling, some 
of the carbohydrates of food are colloidal and indiffusible. How these 
substances, with respect to the mechanism of the process, pass across the 
intestinal wall may be explained in the same way as the absorption of 
water and salts. But the behavior of the intestinal wall enters into the 
problem to some extent, for it is relatively impermeable to the disaccha- 
rids as compared with the monosaccharids. 

The absorption of certain disaccharids, especially of cane sugar and 
lactose, on account of the relative impermeability of the intestinal walls, 
proceeds more slowly by far from the intestine than that of the mono- 
saccharids, the process of absorption being always dependent upon 
hydrolysis. This is no doubt the reason why large, even immense, 
amounts of cane sugar can be taken with impunity without causing the 
appearance of cane sugar in the blood or urine, while the ingestion of a 
comparatively small quantity of dextrose may bring about glycosuria. 
The mechanism of the absorption of the carbohydrates still requires a 
good deal of elucidation, especially perhaps as regards the behavior of 
the intestinal wall to sugar, and to nonassimilable artificial sugars in 
particular. However, with regard to the course of the carbohydrates 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 187 

in the system it may be definitely stated that they pass into the body by 
way of the vessels of the portal system. 

FERMENTATION OF CARBOHYDRATES.— Tho various carbohydrates 
taken in the diet can be broken down by the fermentation in the ali- 
mentary canal into various acids, such as acetic, lactic and butyric acid, 
as well as the volatile fatty acids. A certain amount of carbonic acid and 
alcohol are also formed during this fermentation. In connection with 
that condition known as auto-intoxication, these facts are interesting. 
Beyond giving a certain amount of discomfort to the patient by the dis- 
tention of the intestines, carbonic acid formed in fermentation cannot be 
considered as toxic, and the alcohol in all cases is probably so small in 
amount that it can hardly have any effect on the organism. Marsh gas 
has also been demonstrated in the gases of the alimentary tract, but little 
is known of its toxic enects in the quantities which could thus be formed. 
The acid products of the carbohydrate and the fat fermentation have a 
certain amount of significance, since the acid reaction of the feces, when 
it occurs in disease, is due to these products of fermentation, the normal 
stools being alkaline. Apparently all these acids are easily absorbed into 
the general circulation, and are as rapidly oxidized under ^ordinary con- 
ditions. In cases of excessive formation of these acids, or where there 
is an excessive absorption from the alimentary tract, it may be that the 
quantities in the circulation are too great to be rapidly broken up ; in such 
cases they are found in the urine, and may have some toxic significance. 
The condition of increased intestinal fermentation of fat and carbohy- 
drates is most commonly present in children, and is frequently accom- 
panied by vomiting or diarrhea, undoubtedly due to the action of fatty 
acids as irritants. Where this condition persists, anemia is found, which 
may result in increased destruction of red blood corpuscles caused by 
oleic acid. 

The acids, when not broken down in the blood stream, may contribute 
to acidosis by fixing some of the alkali of the blood. In the consideration 
of the absorption of carbohydrates, the significance of the absorption of 
acids in the production of disease is a very important point. This leads 
to the consideration of auto-intoxication from the intestines. It is doubt- 
ful whether such a process occurs as long as intestinal digestion proceeds 
normally. As far as the fermentative products of carbohydrates and fats 
— the gas COoH and the volatile fatty acids (lactic, butyric and acetic) — 
are concerned, they are either harmless or produced from foods in such 
minute quantities that an effect on the remote organs and tissues has not 
been satisfactorily demonstrated. 



188 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

The theory of Czerny and Keller, that these end products of fermen- 
tation could lead to acidosis (especially in children) in spite of the dem- 
onstration of increased amounts of NH3 in the urine, cannot yet be 
regarded as sufficiently well founded. 

Borger and Teuchiya's investigations lead them to a different view in 
explanation of the anemias of gastro-intestinal origin. They assume that 
lipoid substances exist in the intestinal mucosa which are capable of ex- 
erting hemolytic effects. It must not be overlooked that many human 
beings habitually ingest more of the organic acids in their regular food 
than the most exact chemical determinations have discovered to be present 
normally in weighed amounts of intestinal chyme. Before attributing 
pathologic effects to the much smaller amounts of these substances pro- 
duced in normal digestion, one should realize how much vinegar (acetic 
acid) is taken into the gastro-intestinal tract in the form of pickles, cat- 
sup, pickled fruits, condiments and salads; how much lactic acid in 
buttermilk, etc. 

PROTEIN ABSORPTION 

Manner of Absorption. — The views of physiologists, as to the manner 
in which protein is absorbed, have undergone a remarkable change since 
the question has been carefully and scientifically investigated. This revo- 
lution of ideas has been particularly manifested with regard to the form 
in which protein is absorbed from the alimentary canal and to its fate 
after absorption. There is, however, but little difference of opinion as 
to the channel by which it obtains entry into the circulation. Most of the 
experimental work recorded shows that the digested proteins are absorbed 
by the blood vessels of the villi, although, according to Mendel, excessive 
feeding of protein may result in absorption through the lymphatics also. 
All physiologists interested in the investigation of the lymph flow from 
the thoracic duct are satisfied that the variations in the amount of lymph 
bear no relation to the condition of the animal's digestion. 

The accepted belief that protein is entirely absorbed by the medium 
of the blood vessels rests mainly upon two facts: (a) Schmidt-Mulheim 
demonstrated that if the thoracic duct and right lymphatic duct are 
ligated, so that the h^nphatic circulation is shut off, an animal will absorb 
and metabolize the usual amount of protein, as is shown by the urea ex- 
creted during the period. This experiment proves that the absorption 
of proteins is not interfered with as the result of ligature of the thoracic 
duct. The conclusion, consequently, seems to be that the products of 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 189 

protein digestion are taken up by the epithelial cells and by these passed 
on into the blood vessels. (6) Munk has shown that if a fistula of the 
thoracic duct be established and the total lymph flow from the intestines 
be collected during the period of absorption of a protein diet, it will be 
found that there is no increase in the quantity of lymph or in its protein 
contents. These two facts appear to demonstrate that the avenue by 
Avhich protein reaches the circulation is by way of the blood vessels. 

Accompanying Changes of Villus and Epithelium. — Various observers 
have described certain structural changes in the villi during the absorp- 
tion of a protein meal. According to Starling, in nearly every case there 
is marked increase in the number of mitotic figures in the epithelium 
lining the follicles of Lieberkuhn. , With regard to an increase of leuko- 
cytes in the villi during the absorption of protein, there is some differ- 
ence of opinion. Hofmeister states that such is the case, and he believed 
leukocytes exerted an important function in the absorption of protein. 
Heidenhain ascribed but little importance to this occurrence, maintain- 
ing that in all animals such increase was constant, that the amount of 
absorption taking place was not influenced to any extent thereby, and 
that, so far as the total absorption was concerned, it was a wholly inade- 
quate explanation. Other observers, however, have noticed changes in 
the epithelium after protein digestion. Renter has described these 
changes, and has propounded the theory that these signify that proteins 
are taken up in a dissolved form and converted into coagulable proteins. 
The evidence is not sufficient to place the theory on a sound basis. 

Form of Protein Absorbed. — According to Halliburton, it is possible 
for the alimentary canal to absorb soluble protein in an unchanged con- 
dition. For instance, after eating a large number of eggs, egg albumin 
is found in the urine. The authority argues from this that patients fed 
per rectum derive some nourishment from protein food, although pro- 
teolytic enzymes are absent from that part of the intestine. Such 
occurrences are exceptional and are merely illustrations of the fact that 
under unusual conditions the digestive system can rise to the occasion 
and perform unusual feats contrary to the normal course of events. 
According to Halliburton, the food proteins are broken up into their 
constituent amino-acids and in this form are absorbed. Howell holds 
that the form in which protein is absorbed and circulates in the blood 
has not been satisfactorily determined. Physiologists are agreed that, 
under normal conditions, the proteins of the food are resolved by the 
action of the gastric juice into albumoses and peptones while in the 
stomach. Another step in the process of hydration takes place in the 



190 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

stomach when the trypsin of the pancreatic juice conducts the proteins 
through the stage of secondary albumoses and peptones and converts them 
into amino-acids and polypeptids. Erepsin of the intestinal wall exerts 
an action on the albumoses and peptones produced by gastric digestion, 
which also has the result of converting these into amino-acids and 
polypeptids. Finally, by the action of the digestive juices the proteins 
are reduced to a mixture of amino-acids and polypeptids which undergo 
no further disintegration. 

EXTENT OF KEDUCTION BEFOEE ABSOKPTION.— It is important to 
determine to how great an extent the proteins are reduced to their ulti- 
mate hydration products before absorption. Evidence has been adduced 
that protein may be absorbed by the small intestine without having under- 
gone any hydration whatever. Friedlander made a series of experiments 
in which the absorptions of various proteins were compared after their 
introduction into loops of the small intestine which had been previously 
washed free from ferment. He found that during a period of four hours 
21 per cent of the proteins of white of egg or blood scrum was absorbed. 
Of alkali-albumin which had been introduced into the loops during the 
same period, 69 per cent was absorbed; per contra^ when syntonin and 
casein were introduced into the intestine, no absorption of any descrip- 
tion was observed. 

FOREIGN PROTEINS.— Our knowledge is by no means definite as to 
the manner in which unchanged protein reaches the blood stream. For- 
eign protein, when introduced into the blood stream, may produce poi- 
sonous effects and bring about conditions of disease. It is found that 
in the majority of cases, however great an amount of protein is admin- 
istered in soluble form, none of it appears in the urine. As noted 
previously, Halliburton has alluded to the occurrence and Aescoli has 
observed that if the white of egg is administered in large amounts, albu- 
min may be found in the urine. 

Relation to Infant's Diet. — It has been demonstrated that at 
the birth of an animal and during the first few days of life the cellular 
lining of the alimentary canal is permeable to foreign proteins, whereas 
later on in life any protein which is taken up unchanged from the gut 
does not arrive in the same unchanged condition in the blood stream. 
The protein bodies in the colostrum — according to Starling, colostrum 
contains about 3 per cent of protein — the sole food of infants for the 
first week or so of life, pass into the intestine practically unchanged. If 
soluble proteins are introduced into the stomach of the infant, a certain 
proportion will be absorbed ; if these are foreign, as, for instance, those 



ABSORrXION OF FOOD 191 

contained in cow's milk or in the white of egg, they will excite bio- 
chemical reaction, and, in the opinion of Dr. Eric Pritchard, will lead to 
the production of specific precipitation in the blood. Consequently they 
will not subserve the functions of ordinary nutrition, and are thus not 
only useless but may be actually dangerous. It is often claimed, and 
seems to have been proved to a very limited extent, that a certain amount 
of protein, such as white of egg or lacto-globulin, can be absorbed into 
the circulation from the intestinal tract without being broken down into 
its component amino-acids by pancreatic digestion. While this may be 
so, it is known that foreign protein, if absorbed, can only act as foreign 
bodies, which are of no nutritive value to the organism. On the other 
hand, if proteins, as, for example, those contained in the colostrum of 
the child's mother, are introduced into the system of the infant and 
happen to be identical with its own specific circulating proteins, the case 
is quite different; such proteins are not foreign bodies and are available 
immediately for the purpose of nutrition. Pritchard further points out 
that these facts have an important bearing on maternal feeding. The 
colostrum of a wet nurse does not contain exactly the same proteins as 
the colostrum of the mother, and consequently is not so well suited to the 
requirements of the infant. It may then be safer to feed the newborn 
babe with the colostrum of a wet nurse than with the milk of some 
foreign species of animal, as the cow, but there are dangers attaching 
to the procedure and wet nursing should not be attempted during the 
first few days of life. The fact must be emphasized that the main pur- 
pose of digestion and absorption is not so much to effect the solution of 
solid articles of food as to split up foreign materials into their component 
elements. Foreign proteins are split up by the processes of gastric and 
intestinal digestion into their constituent amino-acids and from these 
new proteins are built up by synthetic processes on an entirely new 
architectural plan, and of a type which is suited to the specific require- 
ments of the individual in whom they circulate. 

Pritchard then lays down the dictum, 'The whole question of the 
resolution of foreign proteins into their component elements or amino- 
acids is of immense importance in infant dietetics, for unless foreign 
proteins can be so resolved in the processes of digestion they cannot be 
utilized for the purpose of synthetically compounding the specific pro- 
teins, which are essential for the nutrition of the growing baby." 

Lastly, these conclusions may be made that it is quite useless, or 
even dangerous, to supply the newborn infant with any variety of for- 
eign protein unless or until the digestive functions have been established. 



192 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

It is possible, thinks Pritchard, that a great number of the troubles of 
digestion and nutrition in infants and young children may be traced to 
the improper administration of cow's milk. before the gastric and pan- 
creatic functions have been developed. 

The chief protein of cow's milk is caseinogen, belonging to the class 
of phosphoproteins. Though young infants possess at first no powers of 
digestion, these are soon acquired by proper training, always provided 
that the food is suitable. Caseinogen, the protein of milk, is acted upon 
by the ferment rennin in the stomach and converted into an insoluble 
casein. It is acted upon further by lactic acid, or by hydrochloric acid 
and pepsin, and, like all proteins, is converted into albumoses and pep- 
toses. These, to be utilized for nutritional purposes, must be broken 
down still further into amino-acids by the processes of pancreatic digestion. 

However, a very important point made by Pritchard is not to strain 
the digestive and absorptive powers of an infant too greatly by giving 
it cow's milk in any form until the digestive functions have been suffi- 
ciently developed to deal with this kind of food. It may be weeks or 
even months before the gastric or intestinal functions become thus devel- 
oped. Pritchard, therefore, is of the opinion that if an infant cannot 
digest or break up foreign food into those elementary fragments out of 
which it can synthesize its own specific nutritive material, we ought 
wholly or in part to perform its digestive functions for it. In other 
words, we ought to predigest any artificial food which is given to the 
newborn baby. 

Causation of Protein Poisoning and Auto-intoxication. — ^With- 
out unduly digressing from the subject in hand, the question of poisons 
derived from proteins which may be found in the alimentary canal and 
which may possibly enter the circulation, may be considered here with 
advantage. The proteoses and simpler products, when injected directly 
into the circulation, can be eliminated rapidly by the kidneys, but are 
apparently toxic, since they tend to exert a lymphagogue effect, inhibiting 
the coagulation of the blood. They also cause a fall in arterial pressure 
and a febrile reaction. Large doses in animals may even cause death. In 
cases of ulceration or other lesions of the alimentary canal, it is conceiv- 
able that the proteoses and end-products of protein digestion may reach 
the general circulation, and — if the quantity absorbed is larger than the 
liver can deal with — their presence may explain many of the toxic symp- 
toms which are periodically observed. 

Albumosuria is known to occur when any considerable amount of tis- 
sue or extensive exudate is being autolyzed and absorbed. The products 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 193 

thus formed, reaching the general circulation, are readily eliminated in 
the urine. In children and in elderly people the epithelial cells of the 
alimentary canal are apparently thin, which mtiy explain the fact that 
toxic attacks are more frequently observed among them. After a too 
copious protein diet probably no actually abnormal products are formed 
in the intestines, but, since the wall of the bowel has become permeable 
to the normal end-products of protein digestion, a greater amount may 
reach the circulation than can be grappled with by the organism. Ac- 
cordingly, the albumosuria occurring in childhood and old age may be 
due in some cases to the arrival of these proteoses in the general circula- 
tion from the bowel itself. 

It is alleged that toxic substances from a protein diet may be absorbed 
into the circulation and produce that condition known as alimentary tox- 
emia or auto-intoxication. Harley states that among other products 
formed from protein in the alimentary canal and absorbed into the circu- 
lation, the sulphur of the protein can readily form sulphuretted hydrogen 
when there is putrefaction going on. Under pathological conditions, such 
as catarrh of the intestines, or when large quantities of protein have been 
taken in the diet, large amounts may be formed in the intestines. Ac- 
cording to Senator, sulphuretted hydrogen, when absorbed into the blood, 
may be held responsible for various symptoms which vary from simple 
headache to absolute collapse. Herter has demonstrated the toxic effects 
of sulphuretted hydrogen when given to dogs per rectum. Cyanosis has 
been described by Stockvis and Talma and is considered to be due to the 
presence of methemoglobin in the blood, while Van der Bergh has ap- 
parently demonstrated the presence of sulphemoglobin. In 1886 it be- 
came a clinical practice to treat phthisic patients with large colon injec- 
tions of HgS (Bergeron). Cyanosis and other toxic effects described by 
Herter resulted. Harley thinks that it is difficult to determine to how 
great an extent one may consider sulphuretted hydrogen responsible for 
the symptoms occurring when this substance is demonstrated as present 
in the alimentary canal, as he has found it generally accompanied with 
some increase of indican in the urine. In those cases in which he had 
an opportunity of making a more complete metabolic analysis, indcl, 
skatol, phenol and cresol were also increased in the stools. He has found 
that when sulphuretted hydrogen is very markedly increased, or when the 
sulphuretted hydrogen is persistently found on analysis of the feCes, the 
headaches often complained of by these people seem to be constant and 
accompanied with greater depression. 

There are many other substances, derived from the protein by putre- 



194 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTION 

faction in the alimentary canal, which can be isolated and which, under 
certain instances — such as when the wall of the intestine is thin or 
abraded — may be absorbed into the blood stream and give rise to auto- 
intoxication. Alien proteins may be toxic and are sometimes highly so. 
The normal processes of digestion break down the foreign protein into 
somewhat simpler, though still complex, atom groups, which, after ab- 
sorption, are carried to the liver. It is the function of the latter to re- 
constitute the protein in a form adapted for human' needs. One of the 
primary functions of the liver is to act as a shield against the toxicity of 
foreign proteins, and there is evidence that when by the formation of an 
Eck's fistula this function is eliminated, serious toxic results occur. In 
short, auto-intoxication caused by the absorption of alien proteins into the 
circulation may be traced to a defect in the liver, which, if functioning 
properly, ought to shield the body from their effects. 

NORMAL FORMS OF PROTEIN WHEN ABSORBED.— In a normal con- 
dition, the absorption of unchanged proteins is a matter of little signifi- 
cance, regarded from the standpoint of the assimilation of protein as a 
whole. Practically all the proteins of food ingested by man are either 
insoluble or cooking has made them insoluble. Absorption, then, cannot 
take place until these proteins are rendered soluble. This end, as well 
as hydration, is reached by the action of the gastric and pancreatic juices. 
It is the chief object of these ferments to bring about this result. 

Kuhne and Schmidt Miilheim both knew of the production of amino- 
acids as a result of the process of digestion, and yet they regarded their 
production as evidence of a waste of material. 

Albumoses and Peptones. — Physiologists for many years were 
somewhat at sea as to what happened to the albumoses and peptones, 
which are soluble and diffusible, after they had been taken up by the 
absorbing membrane of the alimentary canal. They do not enter the 
blood stream as such. That they do not seems to have been proved by 
experiment and observations. Hofmeister and Neumeister concluded 
otherwise, and Salvioli made experiments in the same direction, which 
were interpreted as follows: that the result of the observations pointed 
to a regeneration in the intestinal wall of coagulable protein from the 
albumose and peptone taken from the intestines. The debated question, 
then, was whether the views of Hofmeister were correct in ascribing to 
the leukocytes of the villi the greater part of the regeneration, or whether 
such regeneration might rather be attributed to the epithelial cells of the 
mucous membrane. 

In analyzing these experiments. Starling records his opinion that 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 195 

the experiments did not justify the conclusion reached, but merely 
showed that the albumoses and peptones disappeared. Starling draws 
attention to the fact that Conheim repeated the experiments of Hof- 
meister in order to put their conclusions to the test, Conheim found 
that while the statement was accurate that peptone and Kinger's fluid 
applied to intestinal mucous membrane together caused the disappear- 
ance of albumose and peptone, this was not owing to a regeneration of 
coagiilable protein, as claimed by Neumeister, but because hydrolysis 
was advanced by the erepsin of the mucous membrane, the albumoses 
and peptones being by this action converted into the ultimate product of 
protein hydrolysis. Kutscher and Seemann, as the result of experi- 
mental w^ork, came to similar conclusions. They demonstrated that at 
any time after a protein meal the end-products, especially leucin, tyrosin, 
lysin and arginin, were to be found in the contents of the small intestine. 
Cathcart and Leathes repeated Salvioli's experiment and came to con- 
clusions greatly at variance with those of Salvioli. It was found by them 
that the artificial circulation, though sufficient to maintain the activity 
of the muscular wall of the intestine, as proven by the peristaltic move- 
ments, was insufficient to keep the mucous membrane alive. An hour's 
experimental work showed that the loop contained a mass of epithelial 
cells mixed w^ith the products of the action of erepsin on the introduced 
peptone solution. In none of the experiments was there any decrease 
in the amount of incoagulable protein, and the processes of absorption 
had been brought to a standstill by the desquamation. 

Amino-acids, Resulting fkom Hydrolysis of Complex Proteins. 
— The experiments of Cathcart and Leathes considerably changed the 
attitude of physiologists with regard to the problem of protein absorp- 
tion. These experiments tended to prove that protein, in whatever form 
introduced, underwent hydrolysis in the gut before entering the blood 
stream. 

To Emil Fischer's brilliant investigations and to other organic chem- 
ists of the same school we owe the possession of more exact knowledge 
concerning the molecular constitution of protein bodies than we possessed 
but a few years ago. It is known, for instance, that complex bodies of 
that nature consist of long chains of relatively simple atomic-complexes, 
fatty acids and amino-acids linked or combined together in ester group- 
ings. 

The exact chemical constitution of the amino-acids which are thus 
synthesized is also known. It has been discovered that while all the 
proteins when hydrolyzed yield the same kinds of amino-acids, there is 



196 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTION 

a great deal of diiTerence in the relative amounts of these amino-acids 
contained in different proteins. At least twenty separate and independent 
amino-acids have been isolated by chemical tests and have been recog- 
nized as taking part in the composition of the various protein bodies. 
It is easy enough to separate the various forms of proteins into groups 
or classes, as serum albumins, globulins, nucleo-albumins, caseinogens, 
albumoses, peptones or collagens. However, there are slight specific dif- 
ferences in the "make-up" of each representative of each class, and, 
according to Pritchard, these specific differences unquestionably depend on 
the number and the grouping of the component amino-acids. The serum- 
albumins or globulins of no two animals are exactly alike from the bio- 
chemical standpoint. This is evidenced by the fact that if the serum of 
a horse is transfused into the blood stream of a human being, it acts like 
a foreign body and leads to the production of specific precipitins. 

Two deductions are set down by Starling with regard to the relation 
of amino-acids to protein absorption. The first is that ^'the energy of 
the protein as evolved in the body lies not in the coupling of the amino- 
acids with one another, or indeed in the coupling of the nitrogen to the 
carbon, but, as in the case of other foodstuffs, in the carbon itself. The 
energy is derived from the combustion of the carbon in the molecule 
under the influence of the oxidizing processes of the body into carbon 
dioxid. Certain experiments seem to show that the theory has much in 
its favor. The second deduction made by Starling is "that while a cer- 
tain proportion of the proteins of the food may be absorbed unchanged, 
a larger proportion by far is taken up as albumoses and peptones or 
amino-acids." Halliburton states "that when protein material is sub- 
jected to hydrolysis in the alimentary canal, it is finally resolved into 
the numerous amino-acids of which it is built. But before the ultimate 
stage is reached it is split into substances of progressively diminishing 
molecular size, which still retain many of the protein characters." 

The product may be classified in order of formation as follows: 
(1) Meta protein s ; (2) Proteoses; (3) Peptones; (4) Polypeptids; (5) 
Amino-acids. 

According to a very large number of physiologists, perhaps the ma- 
jority of them, practically all the protein of the body is presented to the 
alimentary canal for absorption and for passing into the blood stream 
in the form of amino-acids. 

Amino-acids and Peptids vs. Blood Protein. — Alonzo E. Taylor, 
in his very excellent text-book on "Digestion and Metabolism," concludes 
that the problem of resorption of the products of digestion resolves itself 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 197 

into two possibilities. Either the amino-acida and peptids are resorbed 
unchanged and transported to tlie tissues in that state for utilization or 
as far as is needed by the cells; or blood protein is formed in the intes- 
tinal wall by synthesis, and the blood protein carried to the cells for utili- 
zation. To attempt to occupy a middle ground — that only so much pro- 
tein is synthesized in the intestine as may be needed in the tissues, the 
excess of amino-acids deaminated there and the products carried to the 
liver to be converted into sugar and urea — is only to confuse the situation. 
Should all the amino-acids be built back into protein in the intestinal wall 
when only a fraction thereof will be needed by the tissues ? How should 
the intestinal wall know how much synthesized protein will be needed by 
the tissues ? Either there is total synthesis, except for superfluous amino- 
acids, or there is no synthesis in the intestinal wall. To Taylor, sound 
reasoning favors the theory of synthesis of protein from amino-acids in 
the intestinal wall. The deviation and utilization of the blood proteins 
are incomprehensible on any other hypothesis. 

Reasoning from the above hypothesis, Taylor thinks it probable that 
the products of the digestion of protein, whatever the type, are resorbed 
in the form of peptids and amino-acids. When these have passed through 
the free surface of the epithelial cells of the intestinal mucosa and have 
been incorporated with the protoplasm of the cells, what occurs? The 
older view was that they were transported in this state to the liver, there 
to be largely converted into protein, the remainder to be burned. It was, 
of course, recognized that these end-products might pass through the liver 
and be utilized directly in other tissues of the body ; but the larger utiliza- 
tion was localized in the liver. For this view, held generally for many 
years, there was no direct evidence ; it simply appeared to be the natural 
inference. 

Taylor somewhat discredits the views held by Starling and the most 
recent investigators — that practically all the protein of the body is pre- 
sented to the absorbing mechanisms of the alimentary canal for absorp- 
tion and for passing on into the circulating fluids. He points out that the 
positive chemical demonstration of amino-acids in the portal blood or in 
the general circulation with the Ev-k fistula, or in the normal circulation, 
has n^ver been accomplished. Within recent years, moreover, the inves- 
tigations wdth the Eck fistula have shown that the results of this operation 
properly performed have been greatly exaggerated, and the dependence of 
the symptoms upon the amount of protein in the diet greatly overrated. 

Indirect evidence and general considerations seem to lead to the view 
that the synthesis of protein from the end-products of digestion occurs 



198 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTIOlSr 

in the protoplasm of the epithelial cells of the intestine. Howell con- 
cludes that under normal conditions the protein of the food is split into 
its constituent amino-acids by the successive action of the pepsin, trypsin 
and probably erepsin. It seems probable, or even certain, judging from 
the results of experiments, that during the digestion of proteins amino- 
acids are taken up by the blood flowing from the intestines. It is only 
recently that methods have been devised for the purpose of recognizing 
amino-acids in such fluids as blood. Alanin and valin have been obtained 
from the blood in crystalline form and histidin has been recognized by 
its reaction. Van Slyke and Meyer have shown that in the blood of dogs 
amino-acids are constantly present in small amounts, and that after a 
meal this concentration is definitely increased. 

In the light of recent work it may be supposed that the normal course 
of events in regard to the absorption of proteins is as follows: the di- 
gested proteins are absorbed as amino-acids and distributed to the tissues 
by means of the blood. The tissues select and store certain of these 
bodies, and probably in each organ subsequent use is made of them to 
build up new tissue or to repair the wastes of metabolism. Ther.e is prob- 
ably no especial form of circulating protein which serves as a pabulum 
for tissue repair and growth, but the amino-acids themselves constitute 
the form in which nitrogen food is presented to the different tissues, just 
as dextrose constitutes the circulatory form of carbohydrate food. Each 
tissue, from the amino-acids offered to it, builds up its own form of pro- 
tein, and the amino-acids not used for this synthesis may be deaminized 
and then employed for energy purposes. There is evidence that in the 
liver especially many of the amino-acids arising from the digested food 
undergo deaminization, the nitrogen being eliminated as urea. During 
starvation the amino-acid content of the blood is maintained probably 
because the tissues themselves or some of them undergo self -digest ion or 
autolysis, and thus furnish food material for the active tissues. 

Leathes, Howell, and later Folin, have succeeded in demonstrating 
that during absorption the non-protein — that is, the amino-acid nitrogen 
of the blood — increases, and, as Halliburton points out, we have now a 
rational explanation of why it is that the organism can construct the pro- 
teins peculiar to itself and maintain its chemical individuality, although 
the food taken varies so widely in composition. Halliburton describes the 
absorption of protein by this ingenious metaphor : If a man wants to build 
a house from the bricks of another house previously built, he naturallv 
takes the latter to pieces first, uses the bricks most suitable for his pur- 
pose, and arranges them in a new way. The Germans have recently 



ABSORPTIOlSr OF FOOD 199 

coined the expression ''Bausteine** or building stones, for the final prod- 
ucts of proteolysis with the same underlying idea. This idea explains 
why we speak of the ajnino-acids as the final chjavage products of pro- 
tein digestion. These fragments are rearranged by the tissue cells into 
tissue protein, which is different architecturally from the food protein. 
However, enough has been written to expound and explain the latest 
views. Although the opinions here set down are those which carry the 
most weight, since they are the outcome of the careful and painstaking 
investigations of scientists who have specialized in the question of food 
absorption, yet the problem is by no means completely solved. Most of 
the salient facts are known, but there are still weak links in the chain. 
Starling's views are widely held by the majority of investigators, in 
spite of some differences of opinion, namely, that proteins are practically 
entirely converted into amino-acids and absorbed as such in the small 
intestine. 

These amino-acids — recently termed the units, or '^ Bausteine'* — form 
the component parts of the protein molecule, and, as pointed out in Chap- 
ter II, it is known that they are the ultimate products of hydrolysis of 
proteins by acids or by the actions of certain ferments. The amino-acids 
have one peculiar characteristic: they all contain the basic radical NH2 
in their formula, which is graphically outlined in Volume I, Chapter II, 
explaining the chemistry of the amino-acids. 

Course of the Amino-acids in the System. — The amino-acids are ap- 
parently absorbed by the intestinal epithelium, and observations made 
during a condition of starvation appear to show that the normal protein 
requirements of the body, or of the active tissues, are met at the expense 
of the less active tissues. As Halliburton points out, the body is remark- 
able for its economical use of the tissue proteins, and quite a small quan- 
tity relatively is used up in our daily activities, so that repair is neces- 
sary only to the same small extent. The theory that the amino-acids 
were decomposed in the intestinal wall into ammonia and non-nitrogenous 
residues, as well as the theory that the amino-acids are at once synthesized 
into blood proteins, can be finally disposed of as incorrect. 

Van Slyke, in discussing the "Present Significance of the Amino- 
acids in the Physiology of Digestion," has shown experimentally that 
the amino-acid concentration in the portal blood shortly after a meal may 
be double the normal concentration of these acids in the blood. And the 
vividiffusion experiments of Abel, Rowntree and Turner have proved the 
presence of several of these acids in the circulating blood of dogs. It has 
been proved, therefore, that amino-acids are absorbed and circulate in the 



200 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTION 

blood as such, and recent experiments at the laboratory of the Eockef eller 
Institute have shown that peptids and albumoses are not absorbed from 
the intestine. Practically all the nitrogen derived from ingested and 
digested proteins is found in the portal blood stream in the form of 
ultimate amino-acids. 

Van Slyke's recent investigations qualify him to write authoritatively 
concerning the ultimate fate of the amino-acids after they have entered 
the blood stream. His analyses of tissues of dogs after intravenous injec- 
tions of known amounts of amino-acids have shown that the several organs 
and tissues promptly remove all excess above the normal concentration. 
The liver is the first and most active organ in this function of removal, 
but the muscles, the kidneys, and other organs also remove considerable 
amounts. The removal by these several organs and tissues does not follow 
any physical or chemical law, for the acids are not found in the tissues, 
in even loose chemical combination, and are not present in a concentra- 
tion equal to their concentration in the circulating blood. 

Having traced the amino-acids from their original formation by hydrolysis of 
food proteins, through the intestinal wall, into the circulation and out of the 
circulation, into the tissues, we must determine their ultimate fate. It has been 
shown that the greater portion of the daily intake of protein nitrogen is elimi- 
nated within twenty-four hours in the form of urea. It is evident, therefore, 
that the amino-acids find but temporary lodgment in the tissues by which they 
are absorbed and are, for the most part, rapidly destroyed and excreted. It is 
probable the liver is the most active organ, both in the absorption and in the 
destruction or preparation of the amino-acids for elimination or for storage as 
reserve protein. By experiment it was shown that the liver does not store amino- 
acids to any appreciable extent, but converts almost all of the amino-acids reach- 
ing it into urea as fast as they arrive. It is probable, however, that the liver 
is not the only tissue capable of converting them into urea, but it is certain that 
it is the most active normally. The liver does not wait until the tissues of the 
body have been saturated with amino-acids after a protein meal before destroying 
them, but begins their destruction at once as they reach it after absorption, and 
within a very few minutes after the ingestion of meat. Whether or not the liver 
destroys all of the amino-acids which reach it, and whether it converts a certain 
proportion of them into reserve protein which it stores, are points which have 
not yet been proved, and upon which we cannot therefore speak. 

A considerable store of free amino-acids is always to be found in the 
muscles and other tissues, and this cannot be reduced in amount even by 
prolonged fasting. Chemical incorporation of the amino-acids into re- 
serve or tissue protein does not take place rapidly after absorption of the 
acids from the blood stream. So far, we know but little as to which of 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 201 

the amino-acids can hv synthesized hy man and wliich nmst be taken 
already formed from his food. It is known, however, that lysin, tryp- 
tophan, cystein, and probably fyrosin, are essential and must be obtained 
already formed. We know, further, that the higher animals can syn- 
thesize some of the simpler amino-acids, such as ylycocott. 

The amino-acids which are not incorporated into the body are broken 
down by splitting of the amino-group with the formation of ammonia and 
a hydroxyl acid. The ammonia is converted into urea and eliminated. 
The fatty acid left is, in the case of half of the amino-acids, then con- 
verted into ghicose. 

Lusk points out that the amino-ncids are absorbed by the blood, ar> 
first indicated by the work of Howell, ''The Science of Nutrition," 
American Journal of Physiolnyy, r.)()(), page 273, who dialyzed dogs* 
blood both before and after giving meat, and in the latter instance recov- 
ered more material on adding naphthalene sulphochlorid to the diffusate 
than in the former. The precipitate, however, being an oil, its quantity 
could not be measured accurately. Folin and Denis made experiments 
on animals, the results of which indicate that absorbed amino-acids cir- 
culate in the blood stream, are retained in the muscle tissue, and that 
after an hour urea rises in the blood in response to the increased pro- 
duction of urea in the tissues. They found no increase in the quantity 
of urea or of ammonia in the blood of the portal vein after introducing 
glycocoll or alanin into a loop of the intestine, and by the experiment 
demonstrated that the amino-acids were absorbed unchanged without 
deamination, which would have involved ammonia or urea production. 
Lusk, in summarizing the pros and cons of a discussion regarding the 
course of the amino-acids in the blood, is of the opinion that "it becomes 
clear that though the body is built up of proteins ^vhich are aggregates 
of amino-acids, these same amino-acids occur free in only minimal 
amounts, 4 parts in 100,000 in blood, for example, and 40 to 80 parts 
in 100,000 of muscle. These small amounts are constantly present, and 
apparently are the precursors of urea. After giving meat in large quan- 
tity the amino-acid concentration rises in the blood, but not in the tissues, 
for in the tissues the amino-acids are either destroyed with the produc- 
tion of urea or they are reconstructed into body protein, thus becoming 
'deposit protein.' When starvation takes place it is obvious that the 
quantity of protein destroyed may depend upon the protein condition 
of the cells themselves, and that in the presence of much 'deposit pro- 
tein' this may be metabolized in large quantity during the first few days, 
as is indicated by a high nitrogen elimination in the urine." 



202 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTION 

Starling holds that although the experimental proof of the conclu- 
sion that the blood carries the protein from the alimentary canal by 
means of amino-acids is beset with many difficulties, there is a prior 
reason to believe that such is the case. Experiments in this direction 
are somewhat confusing. Starling, therefore, submits three possible 
processes which may take place. 

At the present time it is impossible to decide with any certainty as to 
which of these views of the fate of the ingested protein is correct. It is 
possible that all three processes may take place: 

(a) A proportion of the protein may be built up in the cells 
lining the alimentary canal to form blood protein, so that this 
organ would have to be regarded as an important blood-forming 
organ. 

(h) Another portion, representing the amount required to 
replace the tissue waste of the body, is absorbed into the blood 
stream as amino-acids, in which form it is carried to the tissues 
and reintegrated into the protein characteristic of each tissue. 

(c) A third portion, probably the major portion of the pro- 
tein, does not reach the tissues at all as a nitrogenous compound, 
but undergoes deaminization in the intestinal wall, the nitrogen 
being carried rapidly to the liver and converted into urea and 
then excreted by the kidneys, while the non-nitrogenous moiety 
is carried to the tissues, to which it serves as a ready and im- 
portant source of energy. 

Some of the matters discussed in the foregoing paragraphs reiterate 
the views of the most prominent authorities on the question of food ab- 
sorption, but it is emphasized in this manner in order to drive home 
the fact that the modem theory of the absorption of food rests mainly 
upon the supposition that this process is one with which the amino-acids 
are chiefly concerned. As to the exact manner in which the amino-acids 
act, definite knowledge is lacking, but the recent investigations of the 
leaders of research in this direction tend to prove that they pursue the 
course which has been already clearly stated — that proteins are split by 
the digestive juices into their constituent amino-acids, and that these sub- 
stances pass as such into the blood stream. 



ROLE OF WHITE CORPUSCLES 203 

THE ROLE OF THE WHITE BLOOD CORPUSCLES IN 
THE ABSORPTION OF FOOD 

When food is in the course of absorption the leukocytes accumulate 
in the mucous membrane of the gut After a meal has been absorbed 
they are found in the blood in very large quantities. Schiifer describes 
them as loading themselves with fat and carrying the fat to the chyle 
where the fat is set free by tlie dissolution of the leukocyte. 

Leukocytosis is said to be most pronounced during the digestion of 
proteins. These leukocytes that ingest bacteria are termed ''phagocytes." 
The "phagocytosis tlieory of Metchnikotf" assumes that the functions of 
the leukocytes is to ingest foreign particles, including bacteria with 
which they come into contact, in the manner that the ameboid leukocytes 
are known to do. This function was the foundation for Wright's opsonic 
theory, which was to the effect that the power of the leukocytes to ingest 
bacteria depends upon the presence in the plasma of certain substances 
to which the name of opsonin was given, which render the bacteria in such 
a state that they are particularly susceptible or sensitive to attacks by 
the leukocytes. Howell states that they also aid in the absorption of fats 
from the intestine. They aid in the absorption of peptones from the 
intestine. They take part in the process of blood coagulation. They 
are held to maintain the normal protein composition of the blood 
plasma. 

Howell further comments "that the blood proteins are peculiar, and 
they are not formed directly from the digested food. It is possible that 
the leukocytes, which are the only phagocytic cells in the body, aid in keep- 
ing up the normal supply of proteins. From this standpoint they might 
be regarded, in fact, as unicellular glands, the products of their metab- 
olism serving to maintain the normal composition of the blood plasma. 
When the products of digestion of proteins are in the capillary tubes the 
leukocytes are chemotactic towards them, and as they exliibit the same 
tendency towards decomposing tissue, Hofmeister has suggested that most 
of the proteins are absor'bed by uniting with the leukoc>i^ body. Decom- 
position of the whole or part of the cell is supposed to set them free. 
As the agreement among physiologists appears to be general that proteins 
are absorbed as amino-acids, and enter the blood stream as such, and, 
moreover, when the rapidity and volume of absorption and the relatively 
small number of leukocytes found in the blood are considered, this theory 
will hardly bear close analysis. However, there are still some indica- 
tions that blood proteins may be formed by leukocytes and that they busy 



204 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

themselves in securing sufficient protein to supply the needs of the blood 
tissue alone. 

Perhaps most writers on physiology have reached the conclusion that 
the work of the leukocytes is limited to the removal of dead or injured 
tissue. At any rate, much further investigation is called for before any 
positive statement is made concerning the role of the leukocytes during 
absorption. 

OSMOSIS, DIALYSIS AND DIFFUSION 

At one time certain known physical and chemical energies were con- 
sidered to be sufficient to explain the facts of absorption, namely, osmosis, 
dialysis, diffusion, and imbibition, which consists in the passage of fluid 
under pressure through a membrane. These were thought to be the 
principal means of absorbing food material. These factors undoubtedly 
play an important role in the passage of solutions through the alimentary 
mucous membrane and the walls of the blood vessels. The part which 
the physical factors play is probably most pronounced in the absorption 
of water and crystalloids. The nature of the fluid within the digestive 
tract, and the movements of the walls of the stomach and intestines by 
means of which the material to be absorbed is brought into intimate con- 
tact with the absorbing membrane, are additional factors which influence 
absorption. 

But before dealing with this phase of the question it may be as well to 
define the terms diffusion, dialysis and osmosis. 

Definition of the Terms — According to Howell, "When two gases are 
brought into contact a hemogeneous mixture of the two is soon formed. 
This interpenetration of gases is spoken of as diffusion, and is due to the 
continual movement of the gaseous molecules to and fro within the limits 
of the confining space. So also when two miscible liquids or solutions 
are brought into contact a diffusion occurs for a similar reason, the move- 
ments of the molecules finally effecting a hemogeneous mixture. If the 
two liquids happen to be separated by a membrane, diffusion will still 
occur, provided the membrane is permeable to the liquid molecules, and 
in time the liquids on the two sides will be mixtures having a uniform 
composition. Not only water molecules, but the molecules of many sub- 
stances in solution, such as sugar, may pass to and fro through mem- 
branes so that two liquids separated from each other by an intervening 
membrane and originally unlike in composition, may finally,' by the act 
of diffusion, come to have the same composition." Dialysis refers more 



OSMOSIS, DIALYSIS AND DIFFUSION 205 

strictly to the passage of substances dissolved in water through animal 
membranes — osmosis, to the passage of water alone. 

^^In the body we deal with aqueous solutions of various substances that 
are separated from each other by living membranes, such as the walls of 
the blood capillaries or of the alimentary canal. The laws of diffusion 
through membranes are of importance in explaining the passage of water 
and dissolved substances through these living septa. In aqueous solutions, 
such as are found in the body, the movements of the molecules of water, 
as well as of the substances in solution, must be taken into account. 
These latter may have different degrees of diffusibility as compared with 
one another or with the water molecules, and it frequently happens that 
a membrane which is permeable to water molecules is less permeable or 
even impermeable to the molecules of the substances in solution. For this 
reason the diffusion stream of water and of the dissolved substances may 
be differentiated to a greater or less extent." In recent years it has becom.e 
customary to limit the term osmosis to the stream of water molecules 
passing through a membrane, while the term dialysis or diffusion is ap- 
plied to the passage of the molecules of the substances in solution. The 
osmotic stream of water under varying conditions is especially important. 

Osmotic Pressure — In connection with this process it is necessary to 
define the term osmotic pressure as applied to solutions. A perfectly sat- 
isfactory explanation of the nature of osmotic pressure has not yet been 
furnished. According to Halliburton, "The following simple explanation 
is the best. Suppose we have a solution of sugar separated by a semi- 
permeable membrane from water; that is, the membrane is permeable to 
water molecules, but not to sugar molecules. The streams of water from 
the two sides will then be unequal ; on one side we have water molecules 
striking against the membrane in what we may call normal numbers, 
while on the other side both water molecules and sugar molecules are 
striking against it. On this side, therefore, the sugar molecules take up 
a certain amount of room, and do not allow the water molecules to get to 
the membrane; the membrane is, as it were, screened against the water 
by the sugar, therefore, fewer water molecules will get through from 
the screened to the unscreened side and vice versa — in other words, the 
osmotic stream of water is greater from the unscreened water side to the 
screened water side than it is in the reverse direction. The more sugar 
molecules that are present, the greater will be their screening action ; thus 
we see that the osmotic pressure is proportional to the number of sugar 
molecules in the concentration of the solution." According to Van't HofT's 
hypothesis the osmotic pressure is equal to that which the dissolved sub- 



206 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSORPTION 

stance would exert if it occupied the same space in the form of a gas. The 
nature of the substance makes no difference; it is only the number of 
molecules in it which causes osmotic pressure to vary. 

PRESSURE EXERTED BY CRYSTALLOIDS.— From Halliburton's re- 
searches concerning osmosis, dialysis and diffusion he thinks, 'The 
osmotic pressure exerted by crystalloids is very considerable, but their 
ready diffusibility limits their influence on the flow of water in the body. 
Thus if a strong solution of salt is injected into the blood, the first effect 
will be the setting up of an osmotic stream from the tissues to the blood. 
The salt, however, will soon diffuse out into the tissues, and will then 
exert osmotic pressure in the opposite direction. Moreover, both effects 
will be but temporary, because excess of salt is soon eliminated by the 
excreting organs." 

OSMOTIC PRESSURE OF PROTEINS.— It has been generally assumed 
that proteins, the most abundant and important constituents of the blood, 
exert little or no osmotic pressure. According to Starling, they have a 
small osmotic pressure. As Halliburton points out, if this be so, even a 
slight pressure is of importance, for proteins, unlike salt, do not diffuse 
readily, and their effect therefore remains as an almost permanent factor 
in the blood. Starling places the osmotic pressure of the proteins of the 
blood as equal to 30 mm. of mercury. Halliburton is of the opinion ''that 
from the theoretical standpoint we would find it difficult to imagine that 
a pure protein can exert more than a minimal osmotic pressure. It is 
made up of such huge molecules that, even when the proteins are present 
to the extent of 7 to 8 per cent as they are in blood-plasma, there are com- 
paratively few protein molecules present, and these are in a state of col- 
loidal solution, not true solution. Still by means of this weak but con- 
stant pressure it is possible to explain the fact that an isotonic or even a 
hypertonic solution of a diffusible crystalloid may be completely absorbed 
from the peritoneal cavity into the blood. The pressure obser\^ed may 
be due to saline materials, from which it is difficult to separate proteins. 
The functional activity of the tissue elements is accompanied by the 
breaking down of their protein constituents into such simple materials as 
urea, and its precursors, sulphates and phosphates. These materials pass 
into the lymph, and increase its molecular concentration and its osmotic 
pressure; thus water is attracted from the blood to the lymph, and so 
the volume of lymph rises and its flow increases. On the other hand, 
as these substances accumulate in the lymph they will in time attain there 
a greater concentration than in the blood, and so they will diffuse towards 
the blood, by which they are carried to the organs of excretion. However, 



OSMOSIS, DIALYSIS AND DIFFUSION 207 

this difficulty exists. The proteins which are most important for the 
nutrition of the tissues are practically indiffusible. Therefore, it must 
be assumed that their presence in the lympli is due to filtration from the 
blood." The plasma in the capillaries is under a somewhat higher pres- 
sure than the lymph in the tissues, and this tends to squeeze the con- 
stituents of the blood, including the proteins, through the capillary walls. 
Waymouth Iveid finds that absolutely pure proteins exert no osmotic 
pressure; the pressure observed is due to saline and other materials from 
which it is difficult to disentangle the proteins. Imbibition is the absorp- 
tion of fluid by a solid body without resultant chemical changes in either. 
All colloids are subject to imbibition, which in many cases is impossible 
to distinguish from the processes of solution. 

As noticed before, the processes of osmosis and diffusion are most im- 
portant from the physiological standpoint. There are aqueous solutions 
of various substances in the body separated from one another by mem- 
branes : the endothelial walls of the capillaries separating the blood from 
the lymph ; the epithelial walls of the kidney tubules separating the blood 
and lymph from the urine; epithelium in all secreting glands; and lastly 
the wall of the alimentary canal separating the digested food from the 
blood vessels and lacteals. Hence, in problems such as lymph formation, 
the formation of urine and other excretions and secretions, and absorption 
of food, the laws which regulate the movements both of water and sub- 
stances which are held in solution by water must be taken into account. 

Filtration. — Osmosis is not the only force at work. Filtration must 
be considered — that is, the forcible passage of materials through mem- 
branes, due to differences of mechanical pressure. That osmosis is not 
sufficient to account for the absorption of food is clearly shown by the 
fact which Keid has pointed out, namely, that if the living epithelium of 
the intestine is removed, absorption comes very nearly to a standstill, 
although from the purely physical standpoint removal of the thick 
columnar epithelium would increase the facilities for osmosis and filtra- 
tion. 

Consequently, mechanical and physical factors supply no wholly ade- 
quate explanation of the observed facts of the absorption of food. There 
is some hitherto unexplained factor bound up in the characteristics of the 
living protoplasm of the epithelial cells themselves. If isotonic blood 
serum be introduced into the intestine the salts and water are at once ab- 
sorbed, also the albumins, but more slowly. When this occurs the osmotic 
conditions are in balance and the pressure is greater on the side of the 
blood vessels so that absorption takes place with the actual expenditure 



208 PHYSIOLOGY OF ABSOKPTION 

of energy. The really important fact remains that the absorption through 
a living membrane is influenced by the membrane in ways that as yet 
have not been tlioroughly made plain. This is the factor that determines 
the different rate of absorption and the so-called selective absorption in 
various regions of the alimentary canal. 

The object of this chapter is to show as far as possible how absorp- 
tion of food in the body is carried on. 'No absolutely definite conclusion 
has been reached on this point, but the majority of those who have been 
engaged in physiological investigations and observations are of the opin- 
ion that it is a living and not a mechanical action. In a healthy body 
the skin as an organ of absorption may be excluded as a negligible 
quantity. The views of authorities on physiology have been largely 
drawn upon. 

BIBLIOGKAPHY 

Abderhaldew. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry. 

Cannon. The Movements of the Stomach Studied by Means of the 
Roentgen Rays, Am. J. Physiol., 1, 259. The Movements of the 
Intestines Studied by Means of the Roentgen Rays. Am. J. 
Physiol., 6, 261. Salivary Digestion in the Stomach, Am. J. 
Physiol., 9, 396. 

. The Passage of Different Foodstuffs from the Stomach and 

through the Small Intestine. Am. J. Physiol., 12, 387. The 
Acid Control of the Pylorus, Am. J. Physiol, 20, 283. 

Chittenden. The jSTutrition of Man, chaps. 1 and 2. 

Fischer. Physiology of Alimentation, 1907. 

FoLiN. A Theory of Protein Metabolism, Am. J. Physiol., 13, 117-138. 

Gerhardt. Ueber Darmfaulniss — Ergebnisse der Physiologic, 3, I, 107- 
154, 1904. 

Hammarsten. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry. 

Herter. Chemical Pathology, 1902. Bacterial Infections of the Di- 
gestive Tract, 1907. 

Howell. Text-book of Physiology, 2nd ed., 1907. 

. Text-book of Physiology, chaps. 47 and 48. 

LusK. The Fate of the Amino Acids in the Organism, J. Am. Chem. 
Soc., 32, 671-680, 1910. 

Oppenheimer. Handbuch der Biochemie, vol. iii, part 2, 1909. 

Pavlov. The Work of the Digestive Glands, 1910. 

SciiAEFKii. Text-book of Physiology, 1898. 



BTHLIOGKAPIIY 



209 



Schmidt and Strassbuegek. Die Faezes der Menschen im iiormaleu 

und krniikhaften Zustaiulo, 2ii(l cd., 1905. 
Starling. Kccont Advances in the PliVHioio^y of Digestion, 1907. 
Von Noorden. Metabolism and Practical Medicine, vol. i, pp. 64, 127, 

163-168. 



CHAPTER VIII 

BACTERIAL DECOMPOSITICK OF FOOD IN THE GASTRO- 
INTESTINAL TRACT DURING THE PROCESS OF 
DIGESTION * 

Arthur I. Kendall, B.S., Ph.D., Dr.P.H. 

Experimental Observations of Bacterial Metabolism: Relation to Human 
Metabolism. 

Nature of .Bacterial Metabolism; Anabolic and Catabolic Activity; Spe- 
cificity of Microbic Action; Influence of Utilizable Carbohydrates 
upon the Formation of Proteolytic Enzymes. 

Gastrointestinal Bacteriology: In Normal Infants; Adolescents; Adults. 

Regional Bacteriology. 

Experiments to Determine the Nature of Bacterial Activity Direct ob- 
servations relating to bacterial decomposition of food in the gastro-intes- 
tinal tract are few in number and, for the most part, these observations 
have been but incidental details in studies of material obtained from 
natural or artificially produced fistulse in the human being or the experi- 
mental animal. As a general rule such material is small in amount, dif- 
ficult to obtain and not collected primarily for bacteriological purposes. 
It is obviously impossible to reproduce experimentally, at the present time 
at least, those complex intestinal conditions in which alimentary enz^Tnes, 
bacterial symbioses and antibioses, absorption of products of digestion 
and of bacterial excretion and other factors mutually react as in a normal 
digestive system. Relatively simple observations in vitro, where intes- 
tinal organisms are grown in the products formed from the digestion of 
mixtures of proteins and carbohydrates and fats by gastro-intestinal en- 
zymes, are unrecorded. 

It will be seen, therefore, that available evidence relating to the bac- 
terial decomposition of foods in the gastro-intestinal tract must be largely 
circumstantial; it is drawn chiefly from two sources, — first, the changes 
induced in sterile foods by various extracts of the gastro-intestinal tracts 

1 A bibliography covering the subject matter presented herein will be found in 
Kendall's "Bacteriology, General, Pathological and Intestinal," published by Lea and 
Febiger, 1916. 

211 



212 DECOMPOSITION OF FOOD IN DIGESTION 

of different animals containing enzymes in varying states of activity, and 
second, the changes induced by different types of bacteria in various foods 
ordinarily sterile. It is frankly admitted that there are inherent fallacies 
in generalizations drawn from experiments of this kind which must be 
considered and evaluated before their relation to the living organism is 
computed. Nevertheless certain outstanding features of the general prob- 
lem appear to be so well substantiated that they can be regarded tenta- 
tively as fixed points around which concomitant complex and individual 
details may be ultimately grouped. 

A dynamic acquaintance with the underlying principles governing 
microbic activity in the gastro-intestinal tract and of the relation of this 
activity to the economy of the host, can hardly be realized from a purely 
botanical consideration of the various species of microorganisms that 
may be detected in the alimentary contents. If, on the contrary, intes- 
tinal microbes be regarded, as indeed they are, as "living chemical re- 
agents," an important avenue of approach to the problem is opened, be- 
cause these bacteria in the last analysis are digestive systems working 
within a digestive system. In other words, bacteria are important from 
the viewpoint of "what they do rather than what they are.'' What bac- 
teria are, is a problem in protistology; what bacteria do, is clearly a rec- 
ord of those activities which collectively comprise their metabolism. 

Certain fundamental characteristics are discernible in the metabolism 
of host and microbe alike; — digestion, through which potential food 
is prepared for assimilation; the ultimate intracellular utilization of 
foods thus prepared; and assimilation for the growth and repair of the 
tissues and for conversion into energy to maintain the activities of the 
organism. Bacteria within the alimentary canal of a host perform their 
entire metabolic activities there, whereas only the digestive phase of the 
metabolism of the host takes place within this restricted field ; the intra- 
corporeal utilization of assimilated digestion products by the host is nor- 
mally beyond the range of microbic activity, although the latter may at 
times exert a distinct influence upon the process. 

Relation of Bacterial Activity to Food Metabolism. — ^In general, there- 
fore, bacterial activity in the intestinal tract (which may be more cor- 
rectly termed "bacterial development" and "bacterial metabolism") takes 
place at the expense of food in the process of digestion by the host. If 
the products of bacterial growth within the gastro-intestinal tract are in- 
nocuous for the host, a slight diminution in the total food ingested results ; 
if the products of this microbic activity, as, for example, lactic acid, are 
utilizable by the host after assimilation from the alimentary canal, the 



EXPEKIMKNTS ON BACTEKTAL ACTIVITY 213 

loss to the host is mininml. In the latter case the loss is limited prac- 
tically to the actual elements which enter into the suhstance of the bac- 
terial bodies and waste therefrom.^ This nWirht loss is more tlian com- 
pensated for probably thr()ii«»;h the formation of lactic acid within the 
alimentary canal by normal intestinal bacteria. The presence of lactic 
acid would create conditions which would be more or less inimical to the 
development of extraneous microbes whose activities might be in opposi- 
tion to the well-being of the host. The development of adventitious types 
of bacteria within the alimentary canal may affect the host adversely, not 
so nuich by a reduction of food leading to partial starvation, as by the 
foruuition of products of metabolism which even in small amounts may 
immediately or mediately create conditions leading to the arrest of the 
normal digestive processes because of greatly increased peristalsis, or to 
the rapid or slow poisoning of the host. 

It is important to realize that the products of metabolism even of the 
same organism are, or may be, greatly influenced by the nature of the diet 
of the host. The diet of the host, of course, contributes largely to the 
normal nutritional environment of intestinal organisms in the last analy- 
sis. In referring thus to the diet of the host, it is tacitly understood that 
differences in the rate of digestion and assimilation of the various com- 
ponents of the diet, the integrity of various gastro-intestinal enzymes and 
the proper progressive movement of food through the alimentary canal, 
are ancillary factors which collectively influence the nutritional environ- 
ment of intestinal microbes. 

The normal digestive processes in the alimentary canal as the food 
proceeds from the mouth to the anus result in a progressive simplification 
of those complex organic compounds, proteins, carbohydrates and fats 
which comprise the food of the host to simpler compounds through hydro- 
lytic cleavages initiated by the various proteolytic, amylol^i;ic and lipo- 
lytic enzymes of the gastro-intestinal tract. It may be confidently antici- 
pated, therefore, that the normal resident bacterial population at a given 
level will consist largely of organisms which can utilize the average pabu- 
lum at a particular site more advantageously than their fellows, as well 
as bacteria which have been transported mechanically in the intestinal 
contents from higher levels. Experience has shown that the lower levels 
of the intestinal tract, at least to the transverse colon, exhibit a greater 
density of bacterial types than higher levels. This is partly due to a 



lit has been conservatively estimated that a normal healthy Adult on a normal 
diet eliminates daily about thirty-nine trillion bacteria in the feces. About 0.5 gram 
nitrogen is contained in the dried bodies of these bacteria. 



214 DECOMPOSITIO]^ OF FOOD m DIGESTIOIT 

greater intensity of microbic development at lower levels, and to the ac- 
quisition of organisms which are mechanically transported from higher 
levels. The fecal mass resting in the rectum, therefore, contains repre- 
sentatives of the entire intestinal fecal flora; a great majority of these 
are either dead or of low viability. This rather general reduction in 
viability is due to the relative desiccation of the feces, the accumulation 
of waste products and the generally unfavorable character of the medium. 
It is worthy of note that the bacterial flora at a given level may be 
urihomogeneous ; experience has shown that the bacteria of the alimentary 
canal, which are in contact with the intestinal wall, may differ rather 
markedly in type from the flora in the center of the intestinal contents at 
the same level. It is not improbable that mechanical protection afforded 
by the depths of the folds of the walls of the intestinal canal from the 
general progressive downward movement of the mass in the alimentary 
canal, permits of a relative stagnation in this area. A careful study of 
this highly important phenomenon is yet to be made. 



THE NATURE OF BACTERIAL METABOLISM 

Phases of Bacterial Activity — Two quite distinct phases may be de- 
tected in the life history of a bacterial cell; an anabolic or constructive 
phase (protoplastic) which comprises the phenomena of growth and main- 
tenance of structure (including the replacement of losses incidental to 
the formation and excretion of soluble enzymes, the production of cap- 
sules, etc.) and a cataholic or vegetative phase (protoclastic) during 
which the mature organism reacts chemically with its nutritive environ- 
ment in such a manner as to provide the energy necessary for the per- 
formance of its various normal functions. Chronologically, the anabolic 
phase, as a whole, precedes the cataholic phase, although the two may 
appear to overlap somewhat. The prominent features of the metabolism 
of bacteria may be summarized as follows: 

1. The structural phase or anabolic phase is essentially the phenomena 
associated with the preparation, assimilation and intracellular transfor- 
mation of organic substances, among which amino-acids in various de- 
grees of complex combinations are prominent, into the cytoplasm of the 
cell, its appendages, secretions and enzymes. 

2. The energy phase or cataholic phase which comprises the prepara- 
tion, assimilation and internal transformation of organic substances to 
furnish the forces requisite to maintain the vegetative activities of the 



THE NATURE OF BACTERIAL METABOLISM 215 

mature cell; the latter substances, unlike those required for structure, 
need not be nitrogenous. 

The metabolism of the bacterial cell, therefore, consists in general of 
the preparation, assimilation and internal utilization or transformation 
of nutrient substances for the construction and support of the organism. 

PRELIMINARY TRANSFORMATIONS.— The nature of the preliminary 
transfornuitions which various types of nutrient substances undergo, 
varies greatly with different kinds of organisms; some bacteria, as, for 
example, Bacillus proteus, the spirillum of Asiatic cholera and Bacillus 
pyocyaneus, growing in protein media that contain no utilizable carbo- 
hydrates,^ secrete soluble (exo) proteolytic enzymes. These exo-enzymes 
effect a non-specific hydrolytic cleavage of the various proteins or protein 
derivatives to simpler compounds which are then assimilable. The me- 
chanics of secretion of these soluble proteolytic enzymes and their action 
are in general analogous to the secretion of pepsin or trypsin in the human 
alimentary canal. Many anaerobic bacteria (1) secrete exo-enzymes which 
are far more active under favorable conditions than the exo-enzymes of 
aerobic bacteria which have been studied to date(2). A sharp distinc- 
tion must be drawn between the non-specific cleavage of protein by these 
exo-enzymes and the substances arising from the intracellular utilization 
of these products of cleavage by the bacterial cell after they are assimi- 
lated. Deaminization is a feature of the latter phase, but it is no more 
associated with the former than it is with the action of pepsin or trypsin 
in the alimentary canal of man. The non-specificity of the simpler prod- 
ucts of hydrolytic cleavage of various proteins by the exoproteolytic bac- 
terial enzymes is in striking contrast to the specificity of products result- 
ing from the intracellular digestion of these products of hydrolysis; the 
former (before assimilation by the microbe) are analogous to those 
formed by enzyme action within the intestinal tract of man, the latter 
(transformed intracellularly by the microbe) are specific for the organ- 
ism, and they may be innocuous to the host, harmful or even acutely toxic. 
The extent to which soluble, bacterial proteolytic enzymes may be a factor 
in the economy of the alimentary tract of man is as yet unanswered. In 
addition to these soluble, non-specific, proteolytic enzymes, certain types 
of bacteria secrete soluble carbohydrolytic enzymes, which effect a cleav-. 
age of polysaccharids or in some instances even bioses to simpler com- 



iThe effect of utilizable carbohydrate in suppressing the formation of these exo- 
proteolytic enzymes, at least in an active state, is worthy of note. Space does not 
permit of a discussion here. 



216 DECOMPOSITION OF FOOD m DIGESTION 

poun(ls(3), and soluble lipolytic enzymes and esterases(4). The latter 
split fats or esters into their component parts. 

FINAL TRANSFORMATIONS.— The final transformations which nutri- 
ent substances undergo within the body of the bacterial cell (after pre- 
liminary extracellular hydrolytic cleavage and assimilation) bear the 
same general relation to the life of the microbe that the utilization of 
nutrient substances which pass from the intestinal tract to the tissues 
bears to the life of man. 

Specificity of Microbe Action. — This brief discussion of the more gen- 
eral phenomena of bacterial nutrition is an essential introduction to the 
real problem of the formation and elimination of the waste products aris- 
ing from bacterial metabolism. In the final analysis it is the waste from 
this internal utilization of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, or their deriva- 
tives, that is important in evaluating the function of the specific microbe 
in nature, since specificity of action upon the environment determines the 
dynamic individuality of unicellular organisms. The specificity of mi- 
crobic action furthermore is associated with the catabolic rather than the 
anabolic phase of metabolism, as the following considerations will indicate. 

The weight of a single bacterial cell is very little indeed ; an ordinary 
bacillus, as, for example, B. coli, weighs about 0.000,000,0016 milligrams. 
It follows that the actual amount of material required to build such a 
complete cell, even with a liberal allowance for waste, is extremely small. 
In spite of the minuteness of bacterial cells, however, many kinds effect 
a rapid and material transformation of their nutritive environment. This 
disproportion between the chemical activity of the organism and its size 
is partly attributable to the relatively large surface area of the cell in pro- 
portion to its volume. In general, a parallelism -exists between the sur- 
face area and energy requirements rather than between the volume and 
energy requirements in living things; such a parallelism would afford a 
possible explanation of this phenomenon in bacteria. Thus a million 
spherical organisms, each one micron in diameter (assuming the specific 
gravity to be 1.030, which is very nearly correct), would weigh about 
0.00054 milligrams, while their combined surface area would be approxi- 
mately 3.1410 square millimetres. The ratio of energy to weight is, 
therefore, very large indeed. Such reasoning must not be regarded as 
more than suggestive, however, because bacteria of approximately equal 
size vary greatly in the nature and extent of their energy transforma- 
tions. Thus Bacillus typhosus and Bacillus proteus are about equal in 
volume and surface area, but the latter exceeds the former many times 
in the extent of its chemical activity. Generally speaking, pathogenic 



THE NATURE OF BACTERIAL METABOLISM 217 



bacteria are decidedly less active chemically than saprophytic organisms. 
From a chemical standpoint, the strnctural phase of bacterial growth 
and activity appears to be largely a series of syntheses. Relatively sim- 
ple derivatives of proteins, carbohydrates (and probably fats) are trans- 
formed through reactions, in which condensations and reductions are 
prominent, into those complex proteins, fats and carbohydrates (together 
with salts) which collectively comprise the mature bacterial cell. Many 
of these syntheses are probably hydrogenic in character, that is, two or 
more simpler molecules unite to form one of greater complexity, with a 
coincident elimination of hydrogen and oxygen in the proportions to form 
water. Thus : 

H,0 



CeHiiOe + CeHijOa = CijHmOu 

Dextrose Galactose Lactose 



Schematic synthesis of polysaccharids 



NH2CH2COOH-HHNHCHjCOOH=NH2CH,CONHCHjCOOH(+H,0)l^^^^"?**!^ 



GlycocoU 



Glycylglycin 



(synthesis of 
protein 



HOOC.CH, 

I 
HOOC.CH, 

I 



CHjOOCCH, 

I 
CHOOCCH, 

I 



o u r\ f Schematic synthe 
^^'^ \ of fat 



GlycocoU 

CH2OH 
I 
CHOH 

I 
CH2OH J [ HOOC.CH, J [ CHjOOCCH, 

Glycerin Acetic acid ^ Tri-acetin 

NECESSITY OF NITROGENOUS D1F:T.— Again, bacteria like all living 
things are nitrogenous bodies, hence they need nitrogen-containing sub- 
stances in their dietary. In other words, bacteria cannot thrive in a ncn- 
nitrogenous environment, but the form in which nitrogen must be united 
with other elements to be utilizable for structural purposes varies with 
the kind of organism under consideration. It is worthy of note that the 
state of aggregation of nitrogenous compounds in the alimentary canal of 
man varies from great complexity in the proteins as taken into the mouth 
to relative simplicity as intestinal digestion proceeds. It is not difficult 
to conceive of a succession of intestinal organisms from above dowTiwards 
whose nitrogenous requirements are correspondingly graded. 

PREPARATION AND UTILIZATION OF ENERGY.— The energv or vegeta- 
tive phase of bacterial activity, like the energy phase of other living 
things, is largely a series of oxidizations of carbon and hydrogen. Nitro- 
gen plays but little part in the process, because the oxidization of this ele- 
ment appears to yield little or no energy to a great majority of bacteria. 
When proteins or protein derivatives are utilized for energy by ordinary 
bacteria, therefore, the elimination of nitrogen as ammonia (deaminiza- 
tion) is usually a concomitant phenomenon to the partial or complete 
oxidization of the carbon and the hydrogen moieties of the protein or 



218 DECOMPOSITIOJSr OF FOOD IN DIGESTION 

protein derivatives for energy requirements.^ It is not surprising to find 
that certain carbohydrates, which contain no nitrogen and in which the 
carbon is already in a state of partial oxidization, are more readily util- 
ized for energy than protein derivatives. In the latter, the carbon is in 
combination with hydrogen alone, except for the carboxyl group. Fur- 
thermore, utilization of amino-acids for fuel appears to presuppose the 
elimination of the amino-nitrogen as ammonia, in order that the reactions 
yielding energy may go on. This sparing action of carbohydrate for pro- 
tein, in relation to the production of energy, is well known in the economy 
of the human body, as well as in bacteria, as is evidenced by the well- 
known expression that "carbohydrate spares body protein." 

Utilization of Peotein Derivatives. — A series of reactions indica- 
tive of some of the more important changes in protein derivatives inci- 
dental to their preparation and utilization for energy, appears to be 
fairly definitely established, and inasmuch as they illustrate the probable 
mode of formation of products of importance in the gastro-intestinal 
tract, they are appended : 

1. RCH2CHNH2C00H+H2 = RCH2CH2C00H = NH3— Reductive deamini- 
zation of an amino-acid to a fatty acid with the same number of carbon atoms. 

2. RCH.CHNH^COOH + H.O = RCH^CHOHCOOH + NH3— Hydrolytic 
deaminization of amino-acid to an oxyacid with the same number of carbon atoms. 
(Illustrates the possible formation of lactic acid from protein.) 

3. RCH,CHNH2C00H + = RCH2C0C00H + NH3— Oxidative deaminiza- 
tion of amino-acid to a Keto acid with the same number of carbon atoms. 

4. RCH.CHNH^COOH— >RCH2CHNH2 -f CO^— Carboxylic decomposition of 
amino-acid to primary amin with one less carbon atom. 

The formation of beta-iminazolylethylamin from histidin, of cadaverin from 
lysin, and of putrescin from ornithin are excellent instances of this carbox3dic 
decomposition resulting in the formation of a primary amin. 

5. RCH2CH,COOH->RCH2CH3 + CO^— Carboxylic decomposition of fatty 
acid — (Compare Reaction No. 1) to a compound with one less carbon atom. 

6. RCH3CH2COOH -f 30 = RCH^COOH + CO^ + H,0— Carboxylic decom- 
. position of fatty acid to a fatty acid containing one less carbon atom. 

Illustrations — Formation of indol from tryptophan. — Indol is a sub- 
stance found in the human intestinal tract in varying amounts ; it is pro- 

1 A precisely analogous deaminization takes place in the animal body when a pre- 
dominatingly protein diet is administered. The increase in the output of urea in 
this case has its origin largely in intracorporeal deaminization, the ammonia resulting 
therefrom being transformed to urea prior to its elimination. The ammonia which 
results from the deaminization of protein derivatives within the bacteria cell (and 
which is excreted as such, since bacteria, so far as is known, are unprovided with livers) 
is justly to be regarded as "bacterial urea." 



THE NATURE OF BACTERIAL METABOLISM 219 

duced from the mother substance, tryptophan (an amino-acid found in 
proteins), by the action of Bacillus coli, Bacillus proteus and certain 
other intestinal microbes. The exact process is not known, but the steps 
indicated may be regarded as possible : 



^« 



CHo CHNH, COOH rr—l CH2 CH2 COOH 



CC 



+ H.- NH -t-NH, 

(Reaction I) , , , „ , , a ,a 
Tryptophan Indol Propionic Acid 



Q-^CH3 CH. COOH ^^_ Q-^ 



CH2 COOH 

+ CO2 + H2O 
NH (lUacUone) NH 

Indol Acetic Acid 



r'^^yn CH2 COOH ^ 1^"^ 

^nA^_ (Reaction 5) ^-A/. 



CH 



NH (Reactions) ^-^Yh "^ ^^^ 

Skatol 



NH NH 

Indol 



+ C0o+ HoO 



Indol is not utilizable for energy (or structure probably) by those 
bacteria which are responsible for its production from tryptophan. The 
energy that is available in the latter compound appears to be the alanin 
radical, CH3 CHNHo COOH, which, when added to indol in the beta 
position, forms tryptophan. The human body likewise can hardly utib'ze 
indol for structure or for energy ; however, when indol as such is absorbed 
from the intestinal tract, it is changed to indoxyl in the liver and excreted 
in the urine as a potassium sulphonate derivative known as indican, thus : 



CD -Co -Co 



1-0, 

o • 



NH NH NH 

Indol Indoxyl Indican 

Formation of Phenol and Paracresol from Tyrosine — Similarly tyro- 
sin is acted upon by Bacillus coli and other organisms, ultimately util- 
izing the alanin radical of the tyrosin molecule for energy, leaving a 
residue of paracresol (or phenol) which is not a source of energy either 
to bacteria or to the human body. When paracresol or phenol is absorbed 



220 



DECOMPOSITIO:Nr OF FOOD m DIGESTION 



from the alimentary tract, it is transformed (detoxicated) in the liver 
and excreted as an ethereal sulphate in the urine. The hypothetical steps 
in the formation of paracresol and of phenol follow ; 

OH OH 

• o -. - o 

CHa CHNHs COOH (Reaction 1) CH2 CHo COOH 



NH; 



6 



Tyroain 



Para-oxyphenylpropionic Acid 
OH 



CHo CHo COOH 
OH 



O * 



+ 30 = K^ + CO2+H2O 

(Reaction 6) CHo COOH 

Para-oxyphenylacetic Acid 



OH 



O 



CH2 COOH 
OH 



O^ 



CO, 



» o 



(Reactions) CH3 

Paracresol 
OH 



30 



CH- 



( Reaction 6 ) 







+ CO 2 +H2O 
Phenol 



FORMATION OF BETA-IMINAZOLYLETHYLAMIN FROM HISTIDIN 



H— C— N 

I > 

C N^ 

I 

CH2 

CH NH2 

I . 

COOH 



(Reaction 4} 



H — C 



\ 



CH 



r 



CH2 

CH2 NH2 



Histidin 



Beta-iminazolylethylamin 



FORMATION OF CADAVERIN FROM LYSIN 



CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH COOH 

NH2 



-> CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 



I (Reaction 4) 

NH2 NH2 



-CO. 



NH2 



Lyain Cadaverin 

FORMATION OF PUTRESCIN FROM ORNITHIN 



CH2 CH2 CH2 CH COOH 



NH2 NH2 

Ornithin 



»- CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 

(Reaction 4 ) | - CO2 

NH2 NH2 

Putrescin 



THE NATURE OF BACTERIAL METABOLISM 221 

Reactions of Bacteria in Media Containing Both Utilizable 
Nitrogenous Substances (Proteins and Protein Derivatives) and 
Carbohydrates. — The foregoing obsen'ations indicate that proteins or 
protein derivatives may be utilized by bacteria both for their structural 
requirements and for their energy. Inasmuch as bacteria in common with 
all living things are nitrogenous orgnnisnis, at least some nitrogenous sub- 
stance is necessary for their structure; the energy, on the contrary, ap- 
pears to be a phase characterized by the oxidization of carbon and hydro- 
gen. Nitrogen, as it exists in the amino-acids and protein molecule — 
amino-nitrogen — not only is not a source of energy to the ordinary types 
of saprophytic, parasitic and pathogenic bacteria, but it is even removed 
(deaminization) prior to the utilization of the carbon and hydrogen of 
this group of nitrogenous substances by transformation into energy. In 
this sense deaminization is a very good measure of the rate of utilization 
of proteins and protein derivatives when they are oxidized for energy by 
the bacteria. 

Action of Carbohydrates in Media. — The addition of utilizable carbo- 
hydrates to nitrogenous media for bacterial cultures exercises a very pro- 
found influence upon the character and physiological effects of the prod- 
ucts formed. Of the carbohydrates, those containing six carbon atoms 
are most commonly adaptable to bacterial needs ; bioses and polysaccharids 
appear to be commonly hydrolyzed to hexoses prior to assimilation. 

The products resulting from the utilization of carbohydrates (for 
energy) are quite commonly acids, particularly lactic and to a lesser de- 
gree acetic and formic acids. Those bacteria which produce gas during 
the fermentation of carbohydrates are said to decompose formic acid, 
through the activity of a special enzyme, formiase, to carbon dioxid and 
hydrogen. According to this hypothesis, the typhoid bacillus, which does 
not produce appreciable amounts of gas from the simple sugars, does not 
produce this enzyme; the paratyphoid bacillus and Bacillus coli, on the 
contrary, do produce formiase. 

Space does not permit of an intimate discussion of the great difference 
in the nature and extent of the products resulting from the utilization 
of carbohydrates and proteins respectively for the energy requirements 
of bacteria. A few typical illustrations, however, will indicate the para- 
mount importance of the subject in a discussion of the effects of microbic 
growth and development in the gastro-intestinal tract. 

Certain bacteria, as Bacillus proteus, the spirillum of Asiatic cholera. 
Bacillus mesentericus and many anaerobes, produce soluble proteolytic 
enzymes which are extracellular and liquefy or peptonize a variety of 



222 DECOMPOSITION OF FOOD IN DIGESTION 

proteins. These exo-enzymes are produced in an active state only in 
media free from utilizable carbohydrates (2). Bacillus diphtherise and 
Bacillus tetani produce extremely potent toxins when grown in appropri- 
ate protein media free from carbohydrates. Bacillus coli, Bacillus pro- 
teus, the spirillum of Asiatic cholera and other organisms form indol in 
protein media (provided, of course, tryptophan either alone or in com- 
bination is present) ; no indol is formed by them in similar media con- 
taining utilizable carbohydrates. Even the composition of the bacterial 
cell itself is materially influenced by the presence or absence of utilizable 
carbohydrates; in media containing the latter, in addition to protein de- 
rivatives, nearly twenty per cent less of nitrogen occurs in the organisms 
than is the case when they are grown in carbohydrate-free media which is 
of the same composition and reaction otherwise. The part played by 
fats and by lipoidal substances in general in bacterial metabolism is not 
well understood at the present time. 

To summarize, — soluble proteolytic enzymes, soluble toxins, putrefac- 
tive products such as indol and other conspicuous and distinctive evidences 
of the decomposition of proteins or protein derivatives, characteristic of 
various specific bacteria grown in carbohydrate-free media, are not pro- 
duced when the same organisms are grown in the same nitrogenous media 
to which are added utilizable carbohydrates. The carbohydrate, in other 
words, protects the protein constituents of the media from bacterial break- 
down in a manner analogous to that in the animal body where "carbo- 
hydrate spares body protein." The products arising from the utilization 
of carbohydrate (for energy) are chiefly organic acids irrespective of the 
organism under consideration.^ Thus Bacillus diphtherise. Bacillus coli, 
the spirillum of Asiatic cholera. Bacillus typhosus and many other bac- 
teria form qualitatively about the same kind of acid products from the 
fermentation of utilizable carbohydrates that the Bulgarian bacillus and 
other so-called sour milk bacilli produce in corresponding media. This is 
true, of course, only as long as carbohydrate in utilizable form is continu- 
ally available; if the supply of carbohydrate fails, the bacteria at once 
turn of necessity to protein or protein derivatives for their energy and 
again form their characteristic products, as toxin, indol, etc. 

Summary. — The important generalization which develops from a con- 
sideration of these facts may be stated thus : a large group of bacteria, 
comprising a great majority of well-known saprophytic, parasitic and 
pathogenic forms, can utilize carbohydrate for their energy requirements 

1 Exception is made of bacteria, as B. alcaligenes, which do not appear to utilize 
carbohydrates. The group of obligately carnivorous bacteria, however, is quite limited. 



GASTROINTESTINAL BACTERIOLOGY 223 

and of necessity require protein or protein derivatives for their structural 
needs; these bacteria produce varying amounts of relatively simple acid 
substances such as lactic, formic, acetic and butj'ric acid as conspicuous 
but not distinctive products when they are grown in nitrogenous media 
containing utilizable carbohydrate. The same organisms, grown in the 
same nitrogenous media in the absence of utilizable carbohydrate, produce 
the various nitrogenous substances indicated above, which are the con- 
spicuous and specific products of their metabolism. In other words, many 
pathogenic and saprophytic bacteria produce substances which are poten- 
tially akin to buttermilk from the fermentation of utilizable carbo- 
hydrates; the decomposition of proteins in the absence of utilizable carlxh 
hydrates, on the contrary, leads to the formation of the specific and 
frequently injurious substances as indol, toxins, etc., which largely deter- 
mine the specificity of the action of these bacteria in a practical way. 

This striking relation of the products of bacterial metabolism to the 
nutritive environment is significant in any discussion of the products aris- 
ing from the growth of bacteria in the gastro-intestinal tract. Indeed, an 
interpretation of the effects upon the host of normal and abnormal bac- 
terial development within his alimentary canal depends, in the last analy- 
sis, largely upon an intimate knowledge of this phenomenon. 

GASTRO-INTESTINAL BACTERIOLOGY OF NORMAL INFANTS, 
ADOLESCENTS AND ADULTS 

A discussion of gastro-intestinal bacteriology must be prefaced by a 
consideration of those factors which play a prominent part in evaluating 
the results sought for. 

It is self-evident that at one time or another an indefinite variety of 
microbes must reach the alimentary canal, since our food and all else that 
enters the mouth may carry organisms from many sources. Among these 
heterogeneous microbes will be a variable number that run the gauntlet of 
oral and gastric digestion and reach the intestines in a viable state. Here 
they enter into competition with the normal intestinal types. Generally 
speaking, the result of this competition will be either the gradual or rapid 
elimination of the intruder, or its establishment at some level where its 
adaptability to intestinal conditions transiently or permanently ap- 
proaches or exceeds that of previously established organisms. Repeated 
invasion may succeed even if a single invasion does not result in coloniza- 
tion ; seasonal distribution of microbes in foods or water may lead to sea- 
sonal variations in the intestinal flora. 



224 DECOMPOSITION OF FOOD IN DIGESTION 

It is important to realize that a sample of intestinal contents planted 
on artificial media may and very often does fail to furnish descendants 
of the viable types in numbers proportionate to those present in the sample 
as it originally existed; many adventitious types accidentally present in 
the intestinal contents (which are not, strictly speaking, normal inhab- 
itants of the alimentary canal) grow under such artificial conditions with 
a rapidity which completely overwhelms the normal forms. 

GASTRO-INTESTINAL BACTERIA IN INFANTS 

This disproportion between the growth of normal and adventitious 
bacteria in artificial cultivations of material taken from the intestinal 
tracts of infants is momentous. Failure to recognize the change in intes- 
tinal environment which is produced by artificial media has led many ob- 
servers into the serious error of emphasizing the variety of intestinal 
microbes in the normal infant, whereas, in reality, the relative homogene- 
ity of the normal infantile flora is both chemically and morphologically 
the significant circumstance. The importance of this relative homogene- 
ity in the chemical and morphological study of the intestinal flora of the 
normal nursling possesses more than scholastic importance; the direct 
relationship between diet and flora is particularly well exemplified at this 
stage of the development of the individual. Escherich(5) recognized the 
limitations of cultural methods in studying intestinal bacteriology and 
clearly pointed out the pitfalls three decades ago. Bessau(6) and espe- 
cially those who have attempted to amplify his rather extensive compila- 
tion of bacterial "species" of gastro-intestinal origin have very naturally 
missed the main issue by following a mass of unrelated and uncoordinated 
details. A sweeping assertion of this kind requires proof. Fortunately 
impressive evidence in favor of this view is readily obtained. The fecal 
flora of a normal nursling, as Escherich pointed out long ago, is composed 
of rather long, slender, Gram-positive bacilli, together with much smaller 
numbers of Gram-negative rods, and cocci, when viewed under the micro- 
scope.^ It is obvious that such an examination, properly made, will be a 
definite graphic image of a small proportion of the fecal flora. Artificial 
cultivation from the very same specimen will result in almost exclusive 
growths of Gram-negative rods and cocci ; the Gram-positive forms do not 
appear at all, or at best in isolated instances. Fortunately the use of very 



1 A flimilar examination of a "hanging drop" preparation of the actual living intes- 
tinal bacteria presents a precisely similar picture aside from the tinctorial differentia- 
tion which the stained specimen exhibits. 



GASTKO-INTESTINAL BACTERIOLOGY 225 

specialized methods permits of the cultivation of the Gram-positive rods 
iu approximately their proper numerical relation to the Gram-negative 
rods and cocci, as shown hy the stained specimens, thus indicating that 
observations based upon the ordinary methods of cultivation cannot be 
regarded as reliable in a discussion of the intestinal bacteria in a broad 
way. 

The gastro-intestinal tract of the newly bom infant is sterile, but ad- 
ventitious bacteria appear after a few hours. These come largely through 
the mouth, although some may conceivably enter through the anus from 
the bath water. This initial flora of varied composition soon gives way 
to a fairly definite and lasting one which is characterized morphologically 
by a dominance of rather long, thin. Gram-positive rods together with a 
smaller number of Gram-negative rods and cocci ; small but variable num- 
bers of short, thick Gram-positive bacilli, some of which contain central 
or polar spores ; and relatively thin Gram-negative rods of medium length. 
Chemically these organisms growing in a medium closely duplicating that 
of the normal intestinal contents exhibit a rather remarkable monotony 
of products formed ; these products, so far as available evidence collected 
from appropriate experiments shows, are largely acid in character. 
Prominent among these acid products are lactic and acetic acids, together 
with smaller amounts of other lower products and derivatives of the fatty 
acid series. Broadly speaking, there is a somewhat remarkable parallel- 
ism between the monotonous diet of the nursling (breast milk, which is 
practically sterile at the time of administration) ; the monotonous flora 
evidenced by appropriate, direct microscopical examination and cultural 
methods ; and the monotony of substances formed by the flora, chiefly acid 
in nature and closely related in their general properties. 

BACTERIOLOGY IN ADOLESCENTS AND ADULTS.— As the nursling grows, 
the necessity of adding to the normal sterile diet of breast milk becomes 
urgent, and experience shows that this transitional period is frequently 
characterized by nutritional disturbances. During this interval, there is a 
change in the nature and composition of the food ; this change is essentially 
an increase in the protein constituents, and a relative diminution in the 
proportion of carbohydrate and fat. In addition, the ingestion of various 
kinds of miroorganisms becomes a factor, inasmuch as the new regimen 
is rarely sterile. This change in diet is closely followed by pronounced 
changes in the prominent types of bacteria of the intestinal flora — a de- 
cided increase of the Gram-negative bacteria of the colon group at the 
expense of the Gram-positive members of the bifidus-acidophilus group ; 
the appearance of small numbers of spore-forming bacilli of various types; 



226 DECOMPOSITION OF FOOD IN DIGESTION 

and increased numbers of spherical organisms and of bacteria which are 
more proteolytic than those considered above. This process of replace- 
ment which accompanies a change in regimen usually reaches a state of 
comparative stability during adolescence and, depending somewhat upon 
individual dietary habits, persists throughout life. Accompanying this 
change in diet there is a concomitant substitution of products of microbic 
activity for the acid products indicative of the carbohydrate fermentation 
which is characteristic of the activity of the normal nursling flora. 

In the large intestines these products are varied in character, largely, 
however, those resulting from the decomposition of protein derivatives. 
The antecedent causes for this striking change are: first, a relative defi- 
ciency in the proportion of carbohydrate to protein in the diet ; second, a 
practically continuous influx of various types of bacteria in the varied 
regimen of the individual. Among these bacteria are organisms that are 
particularly adaptable to intestinal conditions, as they prevail under the 
new regimen, as, for example, Bacillus coli. These organisms are more 
plastic in their dietary requirements, thriving equally well in the presence 
or relative absence of carbohydrate. These- types are in distinct contrast 
to the obligately fermentative organisms so characteristic of the intestinal 
flora of the normal nursling, where the diet is monotonously replete in 
carbohydrate. It is worthy of note that starches and other slowly hydro- 
lyzed carbohydrates probably have a relatively minimal action in aug- 
menting the available supply, because the products of hydrolysis, never 
great in amount at a given time, are absorbed practically as fast as 
formed. The duodenum, on the contrary, frequently contains consider- 
able amounts of carbohydrate, and in general putrefaction is relatively 
at a low ebb at this level. Bacteriologically considered, this striking mi- 
crobic response to a definite change in regimen is the most noteworthy 
and significant indication of the change from the nursling stage to that 
of the adolescent. 

A brief survey of the distribution of microorganisms at various levels 
of the alimentary canal of the adult will illustrate at least the more gen- 
eral features of the relation of microbic activity to the nature of the 
products formed. 



REGIONAL BACTERIOLOGY 

Bacteria of the mouth, so far as the normal flora is concerned, are usu- 
ally of little importance in the decomposition of food, although the pro- 
duction of dental caries, and a subsequent disturbance of the digestive 



REGIONAL BACTERIOLOGY 227 

processes, in part at least attributable to this factor, may justly be re- 
garded as within the scope of this field ; also an occasional si^radic diar- 
rhea reasonably ascribed to a discharge of considerable numbers of strep- 
tococci or allied organisms from oral abscesses through the stomach into 
the intestines, may likewise fall within the province of this subject, al- 
though these are considered more properly from the viewpoint of 
pathology. 

The stomach under normal conditions is quite free from micro- 
organisms. Conditions that lead to achlorhydria may and frequently do 
lead to lactic acid fermentation within the stomach, and partial occlusion 
of the pylorus may lead to stagnation of the gastric contents and various 
local types of fermentation or putrefaction. 

The upper parts of the small intestine, which ordinarily exhibit a 
decided fluctuation in the amount of material, contain considerable num- 
bers of bacteria at the height of duodenal digestion, and comparatively 
few organisms when the interdigestive period is reached. The greater 
part of the bacteria which appear during the digestive period are trans- 
ported mechanically to lower levels with the duodenal contents. The 
actual number of types of bacteria found in the duodenal contents may 
appear to be considerable. Many appear to be swept into the duodenum 
from the stomach. The varieties which grow more luxuriantly in the 
duodenum, however, are relatively few in number. Their activities, de- 
pending somewhat upon the relative amounts of proteins and carbohy- 
drates, are expended chiefly upon the sugars and upon the intermediate 
products of protein digestion, as the albumoses and peptones. Ordinarily 
the products formed appear to be comparatively small in amount and 
innocuous. The relatively feeble development of bacteria at this level, 
and the somewhat intermittent character of their growth due to the ebb 
and flow of food at this point, are in harmony with this view. Vincent 
and others have shown, however, that occlusion of a loop of intestine at 
this level may lead to the production of substances of unknown nature and 
origin, which are very poisonous for the organism under these conditions. 
At the lower levels of the small intestine, where the passage of food is 
more nearly continuous, bacterial development and bacterial activity in 
the chemical sense are decidedly greater than at the higher levels. The 
products formed are partly determined by the rapidity of passage of food 
to the level under consideration, a slow movement being attended by in- 
creased hydrolysis of proteins, fats and carbohydrates and a differential 
rate of absorption from the tract in favor of the latter substances. When 
the carbohydrate moiety is reduced to nil, the protein residue is vigorously 



228 DECOMPOSITION OF FOOD IN DIGESTION 

attacked by the bacteria present, and a variety of products, among which 
indol, phenolic bodies as cresols and phenols, HgS and NH3, and rarely 
products like beta-iminazolylethylamin, which even in very small amounts 
may have a material pressor effect upon blood pressure, may be found. 
It is worthy of note that these products of protein putrefaction are not 
produced when the normal intestinal flora at this level is growing in a 
medium containing carbohydrate. 

Bacterial activity in the alimentary canal is most intense in the cecum 
and ascending branch of the large intestine. The relatively slow move- 
ment of the feces, the abundance of unassimilated food, the accumulation 
of organisms from higher levels, and the relative absence of products of 
bacterial activity inimical to their unrestrained development, all tend to 
create conditions favoring luxuriant growth of these microbes. Here 
again the products formed depend in considerable measure upon the rela- 
tive proportions of protein derivatives, fats and carbohydrates. If the 
former predominate, intense putrefactive changes, resulting in the forma- 
tion of putrefaction products similar to those mentioned above, take place ; 
if the latter are present, even in relatively small amounts, putrefactive 
activities are reduced to a minimum. 

The desiccation of the fecal mass as it passes through the lower levels 
of the large intestine causes a rather abrupt decrease in bacterial activity ; 
the fecal mass as it is voided is estimated to be made up of nearly fifty 
per cent of bacteria. Probably over eighty per cent of these are either 
dead or so reduced in viability that they fail to develop in artificial media. 

It would be difficult indeed to prepare a detailed statement of the 
effects of various abnormal conditions in the intestinal tract upon the 
products of bacterial development in the intestinal contents. In general, 
diarrhea, hastening the passage of food, tends to flood the lower levels of 
the tract with bacteria from above, thus causing abnormal extension down- 
wards of the activities of bacteria normally found in upper levels. (Diar- 
rheas in the upper levels may not necessarily be accompanied by corre- 
spondingly rapid peristalsis at lower levels.) This rapidity of passage 
naturally tends to reduce somewhat the amount of bacterial activity at a 
given level, but the reduction is probably slight. 

Stasis of the intestinal contents, particularly above the ileocecal valve, 
usually causes an extension upwards of bacteria normally found at lower 
levels. This is probably due in part to the gradual digestion of the food 
by the intestinal enzymes at higher levels corresponding in actual hydro- 
lytic cleavage to compounds normally found at lower levels. Those bac- 
teria which are best adapted to the new conditions grow by extension to 



REGIONAL BACTERIOLOGY 229 

the upper layers of the tract where the dietary environment is most suited 
for their development. There is a decided tendency towards a differential 
loss of carbohvdrato bv assimilation under sucli i'onditions, because carbo- 
hydrates (of the sugar series at least) appear to Ikj more (piickly diffusible 
than protein derivatives. Under these conditions the differential accumu- 
lation of protein tends to increase tlie putrefactive products. 

Cathartics and so-i*allcd intestinal antiseptics do not appear to de- 
crease the bacterial popuhition materially except as they promote rapidity 
of peristalsis and consequent mechanical voiding of those organisms thus 
removed. The reduction is usually transient and may be followed by a 
greater bacterial proliferation. 

There is no sharp line of demarcation between a normal and an ab- 
normal bacteriological flora in the alimentary canal. An overgrowth of 
normal flora leading in general to abnornuil putrefaction or fermentation 
may cause as nmch discomfort or even danger to life as the purely exoge- 
nous infections. This phase of the problem, however, is beyond the scope 
of the subject under immediate discussion. 



REFERENCES 

1. Kexdall, Arthur I. Unpublished observations. 

2. and Walker. J. Infect. Dis., 1915, xvii, 442. 

3. and Lewis. Unpublished note. 

4. , Day and Walker. J. Infect. Dis., 1914, 451. 

5. EscHERiCH. Darmbakterien des Siiuglings, Stuttgart, 1886. 

6. Bessau. Referred to in Tobler's Allgemeine Pathologic und Phy- 

siologie der Ernahrung und des Stoffwechsels im Kindesalter. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

BiENSTocK. Arch. f. Hyg., 1899, vol. xxxvi, p. 335. 
Heeler. Untersuchungen iiber pathogene Anaeroben, Jena, 1908. 
Herter and Kendall. J. Biol. Chem., 1908, vol. v, p. 293. 
JuNGANO ET DisTASO. Lcs Anacrobics, Paris, 1910. 
Kendall. J. Biol. Chem., 1909, vol. vi, p. 499. 

. Boston M. & S. J., 1910, vol. clxiii, p. 398. 

. Thid., 1911, vol. clxiv, p. 288. 

. J. Am. M. Ass., 1911, vol. Ivi, p. 1084. 



230 DECOMPOSITION^ OF FOOD 11^ DIGESTION 

Kendall. J. Med. Research, 1911, vol. xxiv, p. 411. 

. Ibid.y 1911, vol. XXV, p. 117. 

, Day and Walker. J. Am. Chem. See. 

and Smith. Boston M. & S. J., 1911, vol. clxv, p. 306. 

Metchnikoff. Prolongation of Life, 1908. 

Ratie. J. Infect. Dis., 1914, vol. xv, p. 141. 

Rettger. Centralb. f. BakterioL, 1914, vol. Ixiii, p. 362. 

RoTCii and Kendall. Am. J. Dis. Child., 1911, vol. ii, p. 30. 



CHAPTKK IX 



GENERAL CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 



Necessity of Mtrogeiious KcmhIs: Nitrogen Cycle; Plants, Animals, Man, 

Bacteria. 
Definition of Food. 
Working Basis of Classification: Inorganic — Water, Salts; Organic — 

Animal Foods, Vegetable Fo<><ls. 
Foodstuflfs: Combinations; Chief Klements; Accessory Substances — 

Vitamines. 

Man is an omnivorous animal, deriving his food from both the ani- 
mal and vegetable kingdoms. The elements of all foods are derived from 
the inorganic earth, air and water, and every quarter of the globe con- 
tributes its portion to the food of civilized man. 

Nitrogenous Foods. — The elements which enter into the composition of 
the human body are precisely the same as those which compose the struc- 
ture of the lower animals and the various plants of the vegetable king- 
dom. Like all other animals, human beings are unable to assimilate these 
elements in their inorganic condition, and therefore the principal ele- 
ments must be organized before they can be of use to the body as a food. 
This is brought about through the animals which derive their sustenance 
from the vegetables which they consume; the vegetables, in turn, derive 
them at first hand from the earth, air and water. This is a law of nature. 
Nitrogen chemically pure cannot be assimilated by animals. They must 
obtain this important and indispensable element of life through the vege- 
table kingdom either directly or indirectly, for there is no other possible 
way to obtain it in a form ready for assimilation. We are therefore at 
the mercy of the vegetable kingdom for our supply of nitrogen, without 
which life in any form is impossible. 

The amount of nitrogen required daily by an adult varies according 
to circumstances, but it averages about 20 grams. The mechanism of 
the human economy undergoes unceasing changes, owing to wear and 
repair of the structures which consist mainly of nitrogenous elements: 
80 constantly is this change going on that no part of the body remains 

231 



232 GENERAL CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 

the same after six or seven years. The materials for the growth and 
repair of the tissues are derived from the flesh-forming principles of the 
food. All animals obtain their nitrogen from plants, and the plants in 
turn derive it from the soil, partly from ammonia and its salts and partly 
from nitrites and nitrates, and a little from the air. 

The foodstuffs of animals are, therefore, complex substances built up 
by the vegetable kingdom usually for its own use. For instance, the 
cereals are simply seeds of cultivated grasses. The legumes are the 
seeds of the cultivated members of the leguminosse. Nuts are the seeds 
of certain treds and shrubs. Nature in her wisdom grew these and other 
seeds for the propagation of new plants, but they are gathered by man for 
food, and eaten by animals the world over. The herbivorous animals 
crop and browse the tender green herbage of plants, thus living upon 
plant tissues direct. The carnivorous animals, cannibalistic in taste and 
habit, kill other animals and consume them for food. Thus the carniv- 
orous animals subsist directly upon animal'tissue, and get their nourish- 
ment indirectly from the vegetable kingdom. 

Definition of Food — A food is any substance which will supply the 
material needs of the body. The material needs must be supplied by 
foods that are both constructive and energy-producing. The constructive 
need of the body calls for material for growth and repair, while the 
energy need must have fuel-producing foods, whose oxidation furnishes 
the heat which maintains body temperature, and the energy — motor, 
glandular, or nervous — ^peculiar to the active tissues of the human 
economy. 

Purpose of Eating — It has been tersely said that we should "eat to live 
and not live to eat." The statement that far more people die from eating 
too much than too little is not far from the truth, and yet food is a nec- 
essary requirement of all organisms for their development and growth, 
to supply them with heat and energy, to keep them in a state of efficiency 
and to make good the losses resulting from wear and tear of the mechan- 
ism. The Romans had a very appropriate proverb covering this point 
which ran, "Omne quod est nimium, vertitur in vitum" — "Everything 
in excess becomes a vice." It is surprising to know upon how little food 
animals and human beings can exist and remain in good health. In fact, 
the foundations of certain diseases are laid in excessive eating. This is 
emphasized by the writer who said, "We Americans dig our graves with 
our teeth." 

Classification of Foods.— The object of food classification is to obtain 
a working basis of subdivision, and the less complex this is made the 



FOODSTUFFS 233 

better. The simplest chemical classification is that tiiught by Baron von 
Liebig and referred to in Chapter 1. Foods may also be classified in 
various ways, according to (a) their physical properties, (b) tlieir source, 
(f ) their composition, and (rl) the rule which they perform in the animal 
body. Under the first heading foods may Ik) classified as solid, semi- 
solid, liquid, or as fibrous, gelatinous, starchy, oleaginous and albuminous. 
Some use the classification of '^complete" foods, such as eggs and milk, 
which in a single article comprise all the necessary ingredients and ele- 
ments to support life, and ^'incomplete" foods which are only capable of 
maintaining life for a short time. 

Another classification is that of Prout, who grouped foods as (a) 
aqueous, (h) saccharine, (c) oleaginous, and (d) albuminous. Liebig^s 
classification was (a) nitrogenous and (6) non-nitrogenous foods. Foods 
may also be classed according to their source, animal or vegetable. AnU 
vial foods consist of meats, fish, fowl, eggs, milk and its products, animal 
fats and gelatin. Vegetable foods are subdivided into cereals, vegetables 
proper, fruits, nuts, sugars and vegetable oils. 

For convenience, simplicity and accuracy, the following classification 
is adopted in this work: 



Foods 



, . -r . (I. Water 

(a) Inorganic j ^^ ^^^^^ 

. (III. Animal Foods 

(6) Organic | j^ Vegetable Foods 



The above classification seems to be the most satisfactory, as it is in 
harmony w^ith the chemical composition and dietetic use of the several 
foods. 

Foodstuffs. — FoodstuflFs — food materials — are usually taken in com- 
bination by man to sustain life. Starch, sugar, fat, protein and certain 
mineral salts are foodstuffs. Bread, for instance, is a combination of all 
of these foodstuffs, and perhaps for this reason it has been termed "the 
staff of life," since it supports the needs of the corporeal body. Certain 
foods are composed of only one foodstuff, for example, cane sugar, olive 
oil, egg albumin and corn starch. 

Constructive foodstuffs are principally derived from animal foods, the 
most important constituents of which are proteins, without which life is 
impossible. They (constructive foodstuffs) contain nitrogen, carbon, 
hydrogen, oxygen, sulphur, and some contain phosphorus and iron. The 
starches, fats and sugars contain no nitrogen, sulphur or phosphates, but 
are rich in carbon. 



234 GENEKAL CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 

All foods are in reality mixtures of foodstuffs, as bread, for instance, 
is a combination of all the foodstuffs. Milk has been termed a complete 
food, as it contains all- the elements (sugar, fat, protein, salts and water) 
necessary to sustain life. Fresh vegetables usually represent combina- 
tions of sugar or starch, or both, with a cellulose matrix. Fruits, again, 
represent mixtures of sugar solutions with vegetable acids, and mineral 
salts, contained in a cellulose matrix. 

ELEMENTS OF FOOD. — The chief elements of foodstuffs are made up 
of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and salts. By referring to the table in 
Chapter III, illustrating the proximate principles of food, we shall see 
that foods contain something more than albumin, globulin, glutelin, 
casein, stearin, palmitin, olein, sugar, starch and dextrin. 

ViTAMiNEs. — Quite a number of food materials contain an infinitesi- 
mal but very important percentage of ^'accessory substances," which have 
recently been found to be very essential for the normal development 
and health of the organism. Clinical experimentation has established 
the fact that when these substances are excluded from foodstuffs, the 
body suffers, with the ultimate development of some type of deficiency 
disease. Just what these substances are, and the role they enact in the 
body metabolism, is at present the subject of research and investigation. 
In nutrition, they play a role which might be likened to that of the hor- 
mones in cellular activity or the opsonins and other antibodies in the 
infections. 

This much is known concerning these substances: they possess cura- 
tive properties, they are not protein, carbohydrate, fat, or inorganic salt. 
They are nitrogenous bodies of definite chemical composition — first iso- 
lated and described by Casimir Funk(l), for which he gives the formula 
C17II20N2O7, and to this he gives the name of vitamines. 

These remarkable substances exist in exceedingly minute quantities, 
and may act like enzymes catalytically, changing a large amount of food. 
It is an established fact that when people are fed on a monotonous diet 
for a long time — principally upon rice foods, corn meal, white wheat 
bread, pickled meat and canned foods — that their body nutrition suffers, 
and certain diseases are liable to be developed. In the past, it was 
thought that these diseases were due to the absence of acids or fresh fruita 
and vegetables, but it is now believed that these diseases are due in a 
large measure to the absence of vitamines, and that they are cured by the 
administration of substances which contain them. 

The labor of Osborne, Mendel, IIopkins(2), McColluin and 
Davis (3), Funk and others shows that there is a specific growth-pro- 



FOODSTUFFS 235 

ducing vitamiiie in fresh railk, eggs, meat, yeast, meat extract, yeast ex- 
tract, in growing grain, and in all grains wliich have not been deprived 
of their pericarp (wheat, cats, barley, red rico ahd corn), and in the sub- 
stances which have been removed from them (wheat bran, rice bran, corn 
bran, the germ of wheat and other cereals), and in all rapidly growing 
green vegetables. 

Funk and his followers have isolated other vitamines which may with 
propriety be called "curative," found in eggs, meat, tish, bran, cereals, 
legumes, fresh vegetables and yeast. The value of tliesc substances has 
been shown by ill effects resulting from the absence of fresh foods and 
the beneficial effects which follow their use. 

Recent experimentation has shown that most fresh animal and vege- 
table juices contain minute quantities of vitamines. They are of definite, 
organic, chemical composition, 'easily destroyed by exposure to heat, and 
soon perish if the foods containing them are preserved by drying. Their 
precise chemical composition has not been worked out in definite detail, 
but they are known to be derivatives of nuclein and nucleic acids. Prof. 
Leonard Hill, in discussing their importance in the dietary, says, "Foods 
contain a number of vitamines, and white bread does not contain those 
vitamines. In the milling process the outer layers of the wheat berry are 
removed and the vitamines taken away. That does not matter to people 
who get meat and eggs and vegetables. But it does matter to people whose 
principal diet is bread. If one saw children having tea and white bread 
with a smear of jelly, called jam, there would be no vitamines in that. If 
whole meal bread or black bread were substituted, they would have vitam- 
ines." Professor Hill, in further discussing this subject, says that in 
the processes of milling or canning these are often destroyed or removed, 
as when rice is polished, or in the preparation of white flour. When foods 
are stewed and the liquids thrown aw^ay, vitamines, being soluble, may be 
lost. Boiling diminishes the rice vitamines, but those in w^hole wheat 
flour are not destroyed by baking. The addition of a very little raw milk 
to white bread gives the necessary vitamines. 

Condensed milk and canned foods have to be sterilized as a part of 
the process to secure preservation. The heat necessary for sterilizing 
foods deprives them to a greater or less extent of their vitamines, so that 
when one gets an abundance of milk, eggs, etc., with white bread, the 
ration is fairly well balanced ; but the poorer classes, among whom white 
bread forms the principal part of the dietary, with perhaps a little oleo- 
margarin and tea added, fare badly and are undernourished and subject 
to the deficiencv diseases. 



236 GENERAL CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 

REFERENCES 

1. FuNK^ Casimir. The Probable Role of Vit amines in the Digestion 

and Application of Food, Pub. Proc. Physiol. Soc, Dec. 13, 
1913. 

2. Osborne, Mendel and Hopkins. Feeding Experiments Illustrat- 

ing the Importance of Accessory Factors in Normal Dietary, 
J. Physiol., 1912. 

3. McCoLLUM and Davis. The Necessity for Certain Lipins in Diet 

during Growth, Bio-Chem. J., 1913. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Abderhalden. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry, Lectures 2 to 13, 

1908. 
Attfield. Chemistry. 
Gangee. Physiological Chemistry. 
Halliburton. Physiology. 
Hammarsten. Text-book of Physiological Chemistry, 6th American ed., 

191L 
Hartley. On the Nature of the Fat Contained in the Liver, Kidney 

and Heart, J. Physiol., 1909, vol. xxxviii, 353-374. 
Hawk. Practical Physiological Chemistry, 2nd ed., 1909. 
HoLLEMAN. Text-book of Organic Chemistry, 3rd ed. (English), 1910. 
Mann. Chemistry of the Proteids, 1906. 
Osborne. The Vegetable Proteins, 1909. 
Power. Human Physiology. 
RoscoE and Schlorlemmer. Chemistry. 
ScifRYVER. The General Character of the Proteins, 1909. 
Vine. Botany. 
Watt. Dictionary of Chemistry. 



CHAPTER X 
WATER IN THE BODY AND IN FOODS 



The greatest influence on health is exerted by those things which we most 
freely and frequently require for our existence, and this is especially true of water 
and air. (Aristotle.) 



Composition of Water. 

Physical and Chemical Properties: Color, odor, taste. 

Substances in Suspension and Solution: Organic Matter — Sewage Pollu- 
tions, Ammonia, Nitrites and Nitrates, Bacteria; Chlorin and Chlorids. 

Sources of water supply: Rain water; surface water; ground water; 
spring, well and river water. 

The uses of water in the body: Eliminative Function; Function as Food; 
Aid to Digestion; Diuretic and Diaphoretic. 

General Considerations — Absolutely pure water, composed wholly of 
hydrogen and oxygen, as represented by the symbol HoO, is never found 
in nature and is never seen except in small amounts as a laboratory curi- 
osity. Broadly speaking, pure water signifies wholesomeness and suitabil- 
ity for drinking purposes and for use in the preparation of food. The 
^erm also implies freedom from pathogenic bacteria and other harmful 
ingredients. In nature, all water contains more or less gases and solid 
substances in solution and suspension; provided that these are not pres- 
ent in such amounts as to be injurious, and that bacteria dangerous to 
health are absent, the term ''pure water" is appropriate. 

Although water is essentially an article of diet, yet it cannot be tech- 
nically classed as a food. From the remotest antiquity the highest value 
has been placed upon an abundant supply of pure water. In ancient 
times, places where good water was abundant became the centers of popu- 
lation. Great expenditures of labor, time and treasure were made to 
carry it to places where it was not naturally plentiful. The Appian aque- 
duct carrying water to Rome is said to have been constructed about 312 
B.C. Eighteen other Roman aqueducts were built at various times until 

237 



238 WATER IN THE BODY AND IN FOODS 

as late as the year 226 a.d. The great aqueduct commenced by Emperor 
Caius and completed by Claudius, according to Pliny, cost 350,000,000 
sesterces, or translated into American currency, $12,700,000. 



COMPOSITION OF WATER 

As late as the beginning of the nineteenth century water was re- 
garded as an elementary substance. Cavendish in 1781 discovered that 
when an electric current was passed through a mixture of two parts of 
hydrogen and one part of oxygen, these gases combined to form water. 
Since that time water has been made in the laboratory synthetically and 
separated into its elements by analytical methods. 

From a sanitary viewpoint, water is either good or bad. Water is 
commonly referred to as pure or impure — wholesome or unwholesome. 
However, in the present state of our knowledge ( 1 ) , it is not possible to 
draw any sharp line of distinction. A normal water is free from any 
direct or indirect pollution by waste products from human life or indus- 
tries. Under this classification water may differ widely in color, taste, 
odor and composition, and may be unsuited for household consumption. 

Physical and Chemical Properties of Water. — Water is a clear, trans- 
parent, tasteless and odorless fluid, colorless in small quantities, pale blue 
through a deep column. At a standard barometric pressure of 76^ mm., 
or 29,922 inches, water boils at 100° C. or 212° F., and freezes at 0° C. 
It is practically incompressible, having the greatest density at 4° C. 
When water freezes it expands almost 9 per cent of its volume, and there- 
fore acquires a specific gravity less than that of unfrozen water in which 
it floats. Water is the most remarkable solvent known. Few substances 
are not acted upon by it to some extent. It takes up all known gases, its 
solvent power increasing in proportion to the fall in temperature and the 
rise in pressure. 

APPEARANCE. — Pure water is clear, bright and sparkling in propor- 
tion to the air and CO2 dissolved in it. However, brilliancy of appear- 
ance is not conclusive evidence of purity as some badly contaminated 
waters show remarkable brightness. Turbidity in water signifies that 
organic and mineral matters are in suspension ; the former may be dead 
vegetable or animal substances or microscopic living plants and animals. 
Turbidity of a milky or opalescent nature is commonly due to infinitesi- 
mal particles of clay which remain in suspension for a long time. Sewage 
in solution may also present this appearance. 



COMPOSITION OF WATER 239 

COLOR.— Water in its pure Htate is colorless. Surface waters may de- 
rive color from contact with grasses, leaves and woody matters in general. 
The reaction of water is slightly acid, but most potable waters are faintly 
alkaline to delicate indicators owing to minute amounts of alkaline car- 
bonates in suspension. 

ODOR.— As previously stated, pure water is odorless, but good sur- 
face waters containing coloring matters have more or less odor, which is 
especially brought out by heating. If due to vegetable matter, it may 
remain after long boiling, but if due to dissolved gases, it rapidly disap- 
pears on being heated. Water sometimes contains sulphuretted hydrogen 
from reduction of sulphates by bacterial action, and sometimes mixtures 
of products of organic decomposition which suggests the gas. Odors in 
water do not always indicate danger to health. As in the case of color, 
absence of odor must not be accepted as an indication of purity, since 
dangerous waters may often be inodorous. 

TASTE.— Pure water has no taste. Whatever taste may be detected is 
due to dissolved gases. This is most evident when aerated water is heated 
to the boiling point, allowed to cool and the taste compared with the 
unboiled water. Saline matters impart no distinct taste unless present 
in large amounts. The only substance which imparts taste when it is 
present in small quantities is iron. Organic matter in solution, unless 
present in large quantities, imparts little taste to the water. Water con- 
taining only slight coloring matter may seem to have a distinct taste, 
but it should be mentioned that the senses of taste and smell are often 
unconsciously influenced by the sense of sight. Often water with both 
odor and taste may give no impression of either if drunk in the dark. 

Substances in Suspension and Solution — NITROGEN' AND OXYGEN.— 
Substances normally found in water are (a) gases in solution, (h) organic 
matters in solution and in suspension, (c) mineral matter in suspension. 
The gases of first importance are those found in the air. Water contains 
no air as such; only its constituents, oxygen and nitrogen, are dissolved 
by water, not, however, in the same proportions in which they exist in 
the atmosphere. In salt water the variations in the proportions are less 
restricted. The dissolved oxygen is, however, the important element. 
One hundred volumes of water at 15° C. will dissolve nearly three vol- 
umes of oxygen (2.99), and at 20° C, 2.80 volumes, but boiling 
increases its solvent properties. The quantity of oxygen in solution is 
fairly constant in waters of uniform composition freely exposed to the 
atmosphere; but when exposed to sewage, contamination and other oxi- 
dizable matters, the oxygen content diminishes in proportion to the per- 



240 WATER IN THE BODY AND IN FOODS 

centage of the sewage content. This progressive diminution is due to the 
constant access of organic matter, which undergoes oxidation at the ex- 
pense of the dissolved oxygen. Water from deep wells is very commonly 
free from dissolved oxygen, because it is abstracted by compounds of iron 
or manganese, organic matters and other substances. Spring water con- 
tains more dissolved oxygen than water from any other source (see direc- 
tions for making tea or coffee by aerating hydrant water with the atmos- 
phere. Volume I, Chapter XVI). The presence in water of considerable 
dissolved oxygen, derived from the atmosphere, leads to beneficial changes 
in the organic matter present. On the other hand, a diminished oxygen 
content permits the development of low forms of vegetable life which 
frequently give rise to unpleasant tastes and odors. Their growth is 
inhibited by a large degree of aeration, and these disagreeable effects are 
thereby prevented. 

CARBON DIOXID.— The carbon dioxid contained in water is derived 
largely from the atmosphere, and from the soil where it is present in 
abundance. The percentage of CO2 in water depends upon the character 
of the soil and the extent of oxidation of organic matter occurring in the 
interstices ; the amount is also regulated to some extent by the percentage 
carried in by rain and dust. It is present in greatest amounts at great 
depths, and may constitute almost the entire amount of dissolved gases. 
It is alleged that sea water contains about 10 times as much CO2 as the 
entire atmosphere (2). 

ORGANIC MATTER.— The organic matters in water are of both animal 
and vegetable origin, and consist of organisms and products of organic 
life resulting from disintegration and decomposition. The animal mat- 
ters include living and dead organisms and dissolved and suspended prod- 
ucts of animal life and decay, such as albuminous substances, urea and 
tissues. The vegetable organisms include species of numerous micro- 
scopic plants, which under certain conditions act beneficially by absorbing 
the products of organic decomposition for their growth, but which may, 
under favorable conditions, cause much annoyance by over-abundant 
growth, disintegration and decay. The organic matters — animal and 
vegetable — which are of prime importance to the physician consist of 
carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and, in many cases, small amounts of 
phosphorus and sulphur. 

The inception, progress and completion of the process of decomposi- 
tion is due to bacterial activity, wherein the carbon combines with oxy- 
gen to form carbon dioxid, and the hydrogen unites, in part, with nitro- 
gen, liberating ammonia. The presence of the latter in water always 



COMPOSITION OF WATER 241 

indicates that the process of decomposition is under way. In its turn 
the ammonia is converted eventually into nitric acid, which unites with 
bases to form nitrates. 

Ammonia. — Ammonia in water is of importance from the stand- 
point of saniiaiion. It most often occurs in the form of hydrate, hut 
occasionally as a chlorid or carbonate. If, on boiling, the salts decom- 
pose and the ammonia escapes in the steam, it is referred to as free am- 
monia. The most direct source of ammonia in water is rain water. The 
showers bring it down from the atmosphere in varying amounts, accord- 
ing to location. Under ordinary conditions the ammonia in surface 
waters after conversion to nitrates is absorbed very rapidly by growing 
vegetation, and the more active the conversion and growth, the greater the 
appropriation on the part of growing vegetation. 

If free ammonia exists in water to any marked extent, it may be meas- 
ured directly by using the Nessler reagent. If the amount is compara- 
tively small, as is usually the case, the ammonia must first be concen- 
trated by distillation and condensation. Ammonia is always characteristic 
of sewage pollution, the oxidation of which yields it in abundance under 
conditions which do not permit it to be rapidly oxidized into nitric 
acid. Ammonia in drinking water produces, 'per se, no harmful effects. 
The amount present, however, is of more or less importance. In clean 
and properly stored rain water it is of little moment ; in other waters it 
is usually evidence of the decomposition of organic matter. Its content 
in potable water is not large, and on account of oxidation and absorption 
by growing vegetation, it does not accumulate, even in sewage-polluted 
waters. 

Nitrites. — Nitrites in water are regarded as a special danger signal, 
the presence of which indicates that active putrefaction of nitrogenous 
organic matter is under way as a result of bacterial activity, and their 
presence, therefore, at once suggests organic pollution. Small amounts 
of nitrites in water may be derived from the air by absorption, or by the 
cleansing action of rain showers. In some instances they may be due to 
water coming in contact with metallic surfaces, brick work and new ma- 
sonry with nitrites in solution. But in the largest majority of instances 
the presence of nitrites may be traced to sewage contamination. Nitrites 
are present only in small amounts, since they are rapidly oxidized to the 
higher and more stable nitrates, which represent the final stage of com- 
plete oxidation. Nitrates do not undergo further change and, being per- 
manent in character, accumulate in the water unless withdra>vn by vege- 
table life or reduced. 



242 WATER IX THE BODY A^B m EOODS 

Nitrates. — Nitrates in water, like ammonia, are not in any way 
harmful in the amounts usually present in potable waters. They only 
represent what was once organic nitrogen, but now rendered harmless by 
being completely mineralized. The presence in water of nitrites is of far 
greater importance than that of nitrates; the presence of the former 
means that fermentative changes are in active progress, and that oxidiza- 
tion is not complete. 

CHLORINS AND CHLORIDS.— Sodium chlorid is a normal constituent 
of all waters. Rain water takes it up from the air in small traces, par- 
ticularly near the sea coast. The amount of chlorin normally present 
in water depends principally on location and other conditions. An in- 
crease over the normal is always indicative of pollution, mostly due to 
the presence of urine. Chlorin increases directly with the population; 
the amount present is also influenced very greatly by proximity to the 
ocean, since the air above the sea necessarily contains more chlorin than 
the air inland. For instance, a polluted water may have its organic 
nitrogen converted into nitrates, and these in turn may be absorbed by 
vegetable growth; it may be clear, colorless, odorless and palatable, free 
from pathogenic bacteria, and in every way suitable for drinking pur- 
poses, but, nevertheless, the chlorin remains as a mute witness of remote 
or passed pollution. The percolation of sea water into wells near the 
ocean renders the water hard, salty and undesirable for domestic use. 
Magnesium chlorid also renders water unsuitable for use in boilers. 
Wells driven near the sea frequently become mixed with sea water, par- 
ticularly if the quantity drawn is sufficient to cause suction. When this 
happens it may be a difficult problem to operate the well without draw- 
ing in sea water. This sea water question has been more scientifically 
studied in Holland than elsewhere. 

Bacteria. — Bacteria in water may be of the harmless and beneficial 
kinds, depending upon dead organic matter for sustenance, thereby bring- 
ing about its complete conversion into simple chemical substances. Prac- 
tically all natural waters contain bacteria — rain water, surface water, 
water of rivers and lakes and ocean water. The number and variety of 
the bacteria vary greatly in different places and under different condi- 
tions. Bacteria are washed into the water from the soil and from almost 
every conceivable source. The excretions from animals pollute waters 
with enormous numbers of microorganisms, but infection from certain 
species of bacteria found in the intestinal tract of man makes water most 
dangerous for consumption. The bacterial content of surface waters 
varies with conditions which favor or retard growth and accessions. Sun- 



CO]\IPOSITION OF WATER 243 

shine, influx of food material or of substances inimical to bacterial life, 
sedimentation and growth of higher organisms act for or against in- 
crease. Matters suspended in the current of a flowing stream carry 
down with them the bacteria that have gatlierod upon them or have been 
entangled by contact. The diminution of their numlxjr by this means 
is more marked in sluggish streams and still waters than in rapidly flow- 
ing brooks, rivulets and large water courses. The growth of algoe and 
other aquatic plants causes diminution to a greater or less degree by 
appropriating the nutrient materials upon which they subsist, and pos- 
sibly through other influences yet unknown. Certain bacteria whose 
natural habitat is the intestinal canal of man and animals find their way 
into surface waters and pollute them. These forms are pathogenic. 
Probably they do not increase in water, but retain their virulence in 
undiminished degree for definite periods of time, and then tend to be- 
come modified in this respect and rapidly to disappear. Cholera germs 
have been found in the Seine river in an active state after seven days 
and in ordinary drinking water for as long as twenty days. Typhoid 
bacilli remain virulent for longer or shorter periods; they have been 
found in very pure water after more than seven weeks, while in badly 
polluted water their life is very short. 

Bushner(3) has shown that the rays of the sun kill cultures of 
typhoid bacillus at a depth of five feet in about four and one-half hours, 
while at double that depth their effects are practically nil. It is true that 
this organism survives longer in cold than in hot weather. A probable 
explanation is that in warm weather the conditions may be more unfa- 
vorable to the destruction of the organism than in cold weather. 

Concerning the Bacillus coli communis, Kruse(4) in 1894 asserted 
that this organism is so ubiquitous that it cannot be regarded as charac- 
teristic of sewage, and in this position he has received the support of a 
number of other investigators who have succeeded in isolating the organ- 
ism from waters examined. In spite of the fact that numerous investi- 
gators have found the organism where it could not be traced directly to 
fecal pollution, the Committee of the American Public Health Associa- 
tion(5), on carefully examining this subject in all its phases, reports that 
the preponderance of evidence suggests that their mere presence rather 
than their number should be the criterion of recent sewage pollution. 
Clark and Goge(6), as a result of the examination of some 16,000 sam- 
ples of water and more than 2,000 specimens of shellfish, sea water, ice, 
milk, dust and excrement, conclude that the colon bacillus occurs more 
frequently in sewage than all other bacteria. 



244 WATER m THE BODY AND m EOODS 

Sources of Water We can safely assert that all water comes to us 

from the aqueous vapor condensed in the form of rain or snow. Of this 
a certain percentage returns to the atmosphere hy evaporation (7) ; the 
balance collects upon the surface of the earth or soaks into the ground. 
Some of it flows oif in the direction of lakes, ponds or rivers. The sources 
of water may, therefore, be said to be (a) rain water, (h) surface water, 
(c) ground water, including springs and wells. This classification is a 
convenient one, but there is no sharp line of demarcation between rain, 
surface and ground water. Rain water, once it falls, becomes surface 
water, and surface water quickly passes into the earth, becoming ground 
water. Ground water in time becomes spring and well water. 

ICE AND SNOW WATER. — In freezing water becomes purer, losing a 
large portion of its saline content. Even the calcium carbonate and sul- 
phate content is materially lessened after freezing. Thus ice water may 
be tolerably pure, but the air being expelled it is heavy and non-aerated. 
Snow water contains the salts of rain water; rather less ammonia is 
present, however, and the percentage of carbonic acid and air is infinites- 
imal ly small. 

Upland surface water most nearly approaches rain water in all its 
characteristics. The dissolved matters are present in greater volume, the 
percentage depending somewhat upon the soil over which the water flows, 
and therefore it is customary to subdivide this class of water according 
to the geological character of the ground from which the upland water is 
obtained. Upland water does not contain any considerable amount of 
dissolved matters unless they be derived from calcareous strata. The 
organic substances present are chiefly vegetable. The chlorin content is 
low and the water soft. 

SPRING AND WELL WATER.— Rain falling on the earth is partly ab- 
sorbed and partly evaporated into the atmosphere, the relative amounts 
varying with the configuration and density of the ground, and with the 
circumstances impeding or favoring evaporation, such as temperature, 
movements of the air, etc. Springs are merely local outcroppings of 
the water table and are subject to variations in the volume of outflow. 
During a drouth the flow of water from a spring may cease altogether 
because of a fall in the level of the ground water ; this may also happen 
in the case of springs located at the foot of hills or mountains. The 
laity look upon spring water as the purest from nature's water fountain, 
but they share with other waters the same chances of becoming polluted. 
Wells may be classed as dug, driven and bored ; again, they are sometimes 



COMPOSITION OF WATER 245 

classified according to depth. A well r>0 feet or less is termed shallow, 
and 100 feet or more, deep. 

RIVER WATER.— Kiver water comes from a variety of sources, and is 
even more complex in its constitution than spring water. The Schuyl- 
kill River rises in the anthracite coal regions of i^ennsylvania and, receiv- 
ing much refuse mine matter, becomes impregnated with iron salts and 
froo mineral acids, which render it quite unsuitahle for domestic or 
manufacturing purposes. In its course of about 100 miles it traverses an 
extensive limestone district and receives several large streams heavily 
charged with calcium carbonate. River water is also influenced by sea- 
sons and by circumstances connected with seasons, such as the melting of 
snow, freshets and Hoods. Even samples of water taken on opposite 
biuiks of a river may vary in composition. 

Drinking Water— DISTILLATION.— Distillation is now largely used, and 
affords an easy way of securing safe, potable water; besides, boiling effec- 
tively frees the water from its impurities. On board ships distillation 
of sea water is resorted to in order to free it from salts and to render it 
fit for drinking purposes (8). Although the w^ater thus obtained is pure, 
yet all the gases have been driven off from it by the boiling; it is of 
course unpalatable, and by some supposed to be indigestible. It may be 
aerated by allowing it ip slowly trickle down through a long column of 
wood charcoal, or by filtration through animal charcoal or other porous 
substances. 

CHEMICAL AND BACTERIOLOGICAL ANALYSIS.— The chemical and bac- 
teriological analyses of drinking water are of great value. Chemical 
analysis will reveal the presence of organic and mineral impurity, such 
as accompanies infectious matters from the intestines and bladder. 
Though it cannot give grounds for a positive assertion that the use of 
water thus polluted will inevitably cause disease, it can and does point 
out possible danger. Bacteriological analysis differentiates between 
pathogenic and iion-pathogenic contamination. Only rarely, however, 
does it serve to point out danger in advance. 

According to Professor Frankland, who has had a large experience in 
the(9) detection of specific pathogenic bacteria in drinking water: 

Their detection is now known to be practically impossible, and the search for 
such bacteria is, in general, only carried on in deference to the special request of 
the layman, the uninitiated, or the hopelessly ignorant, since it cannot be repeated 
often enough; so that any feeling of security which may be gathered from an unsuc- 
cessful search for pathogenic bacteria is wholly illusory, and in the highest degree 
dangerous. By far the most important service which has been rendered by bae- 



246 



WATER m THE BODY A:N'D II^ FOODS 



teriology is the means which it affords of controlling the efficiency of filtration 
and other purification processes. The slightest irregularity or defect in the process 
of filtration is at once laid bare. Bacteriological purity of well water can also be 
satisfactorily controlled. 

Horrocks(lO), who has had a large experience in this particular Held, 

says: 

If a considerable time has elapsed since the occurrence of pollution, the bac- 
teriological detection of same, especially when waters of great original purity are 
concerned, becomes more and more difficult ... it is, therefore, evident that a 
bacteriological examination has its limits of usefulness, and a slavish adherence 
to it under all conditions, combined with neglect of the hints to be obtained by 
chemical means, may lead to a perfectly erroneous judgment. Still, there is one 
branch of hygienic study in which bacteriology must always reign supreme; it is 
now acknowledged on all sides that the working of sand filters for public water 
supplies cannot be properly kept under control except by appealing to bacterio- 
logical methods of examination. 

Mayer (11) claims to have isolated typhoid bacilli from well water, 
and Jackson found, by the use of lactose bile media, that he was able to 
isolate the typhoid bacillus (a) from Grass River, a source of water 
supply for Canton, New York; (h) from a pond or stream used as a 
private water supply at Hastings-on-the-Hudson ; and (c) from two points 
on the Hudson River. Nevertheless, it is very rare that the isolation of 
the typhoid organisms from suspected water supplies is ever accomplished. 

With this data before us, it may be safely said that neither chemical 
nor bacteriological analysis is infallible. Each method has its uses, and 
each may be helped by the other. The value of either lies largely in the 
skill of the investigator in correctly interpreting the results of his find- 
ings. This requires as much knowledge as the minutiae of the examina- 
tion itself. 

Below we append a table of qualitative tests for the chemical examina- 
tion of water: 

Table Showing Reagents Necessary for Qualitative Examination of Water i 



Substance sought 
for 


Reagents to be used, and 
eflfects 


Remarks 


Reaction 
Lime 


Litmus and turmeric pa- 
pers; usual red or 
brown reactions 

Oxalate of Ammonium 
White precipitate 


Usually neutral. If acid, and acidity 
disappears on boiling, it is due to car- 
bonic acid. If alkaline, and alkalinity 
disappears on boiling, to ammonia 
(rare) ; if permanently alkaline, to 
sodium carbonate 

Six grains per gallon (9 per 100,000) 
give turbidity: sixteen grains (23 per 
100,000) considerable precipitate 



1 Notter and Firth in "Treatise on Hygiene." 



COMPOSITION OF WATER 



247 



Reagents Necessary for Qualitative Examination or Water — Continued 



Substance sought 
for 



Chlorin 



Sulphuric acid 



Nitric acid 



Ammonia 



Iron 



Hydrogen sulphid 



Lead or copper 



Lead 



Zinc 



Reagents to be used, and 
effects 



Nitrate of Silver and di- 
lute nitric acid 

White precipitate, becom- 
ing leud color 



Remarks 



One grain per gallon (1.4 per 100,000) 
gives u ha/.e; four grains per gallon 
(0 per 100,(M)0) give a marked turbi- 
dity; ten grains (14 per 100,000) a 
considerable precipitate 



Chlorid of Barium and One and a half grains (2 per 100,000) of 



1 i 1 u t e hydrochloric 
acid 
White pi-ecipitate 



Bruoin solution and pure 

sulphuric acid 
A pink and yellow zone 



Nessler's solution 
A yellow color or a yel- 
low brown precipitate 

Red and yellow prus- 
siates of potash and 
dilute HCl 

Blue color 

A salt of lead 
Black precipitate 

Ammonium sulphid. 
Dark color, not cleared 
up by HCl 



Small crystals of potas- 
sium bichromate give a 
turbidity 



Render water slightly 
ammoniacal ; boil ; fil- 
ter; a few drops of 
potassium ferrocyanid 
give a haze to white 
precipitate 

Hydrogen sulphid gives 
a while precipitate 



sulphate gives no precipitate until 
after standing; three grains (4 per 
100,000) give an immediate haze, and, 
after a time, a slight precipitate 

The sulphuric acid should be poured 
gently down to form a layer under the 
mixed water and brucin solution ; half a 
grain of nitric acid per gallon (=0.7 
per 100,000) gives a marked pink and 
yellow zone; or, as recommended by 
Nicholson, 2 c.c. of the water may be 
evaporated to dryness, a drop of pure 
sulphuric acid and a minute crystal of 
brucin be dropped in; 0.01 grain per 
gallon (=0.0143 per 100,000) can be 
easily detected 

If in small quantity, several inches in 
depth of water should be looked down 
through on a white ground 

The red for ferrous and the yellow for 
ferric salts 



When the water is heated the smell of 
hydrogen sulphid may be perceptible 

Place some water (100 c.c.) in a white 
dish, and stir up with a rod dipped in 
ammonium sulphid; wait till color 
produced, then add a drop or two of 
hydrochloric acid. If the color dis- 
appears, it is due to iron; if not, to 
lead or copper 

One-tenth grain per gallon gives an im- 
mediate turbidity; one-twentieth grain 
per gallon after one minute; one- 
fiftieth grain per gallon after half an 
hour 

The filtrate must be quite clear before 

the ferrocyanid is added 
This reaction is not available if iron be 

present or if the water be acid or 

alkaline 



248 WATER IN THE BODY AND IN FOODS 



THE USES OF WATER IN THE HUMAN SYSTEM 

Eliminative Function — It was once taught that increased consumption 
of water was accompanied by an increased waste of nitrogenous tissues, 
but this erroneous belief is no longer given credence. Any increased 
excretion of nitrogen with a free consumption of water does not entail 
an increased breaking down of body substance, only a washing or flush- 
ing out of the tissues with the elimination of waste matters loitering in 
them. 

This important eliminative function of water is one of great thera- 
peutic value. It indicates the necessity for a generous supply of water 
at all times and places, in such diseased conditions as gout, diabetes, con- 
tinued fevers, and in cases where the excretory power of the kidneys is 
retarded by disease. 

Function as Food. — Of the inorganic substances water may well be 
taken up first in our discussion, because about sixty-six and two-thirds 
per cent of the weight of the body is made up of water. The importance 
of water as a true food is at once apparent from this statement. Water 
is absolutely essential for the physiological performance of every bodily 
function, and each living cell of the body requires water for a continua- 
tion of its life processes. 

About four and a half pints of water are given off from the body 
daily in the various excreta and exhalations. About one-sixth of this loss 
is replenished by the combination of oxygen and hydrogen in the tissues. 
The remainder is replaced most conveniently from foods, beverages, and 
lastly from the drinking of water in a pure state when it retains all of its 
solvent properties. If one reckons that about half of the whole weight of 
solid food taken consists of water, then the amount required to be added 
to the diet in an actually fluid form varies from four to six glasses, de- 
pending somewhat upon the season, amount and variety of food and exer- 
cise taken. The age, sex and size of the individual are factors to be con- 
sidered in the total daily consumption of water. In very warm weather, 
under exceedingly strenuous exercise, great quantities of water will be 
lost in the form of perspiration, that would not be lost on a cold day and 
must be compensated for. 

As previously stated, the nature of the diet has an important influence 
on the amount of water consumed. On this point some interesting obser- 
vations have been recorded by Voit as contained in the following table • 



USES OF WATER IN THE HUMAN SYSTEM 249 



Food ConsunuMl 

800 grains of bread . 

500 grains of nu'ut uiul JtMi <•! fat . . 

500 «;ram8 of meat and *200 of Htarch 

1,500 grams of meat 



Water CoMHumt'd Water in Feces 



1.151 grams 
7«{0 grams 
<iM{ graiiiH 

1 . J.{H grams 



212 grams 
25 grams 
1(( grams 
10 grams 



Aid in Digestion. — Water })liivs an iiui)()rtant rolo in the digestion of 
foods. While the water of digestion is most frecjuently taken during 
meals, it ought to be largely secreted by the salivary glands during the 
process of masticating the food. In order that the glands may secrete 
freely and copiously bathe the bolus of food before swallowing, one 
should drink freely water, milk or other beverage an hour after each 
meal. Water is also of use during the process of absorption of the di- 
gested foods. It is in the small intestine that water is chiefly absorbed. 
Only a very small amount is al)sorbed by the stomach and a trifling 
amount possibly in the mouth. Water absorbed in the intestine is rapidly 
passed into the lymphatics and carried into the circulation, of which it 
makes up about ninety per cent of the circulating fluid of the body. 
From the circulation the water is removed by sending it through the kid- 
neys into the bladder, making space in the circulatory apparatus for the 
entrance of more fluid from the alimentary tract. This use of water in 
digestion makes possible the easy distribution of food materials from the 
point where they are absorbed to the various parts of the body where they 
are assimilated by the tissues. It is well to remember that ninety-five 
and one-half per cent of the saliva and gastric juice and ninety-eight per 
cent of the pancreatic juice is water. 

NECESSITY OF WATER.— One may do without organic foods for many 
days, or even weeks, but twenty-four hours without w^ater will cause one 
to experience a thirst which soon becomes a torturing madness. After a 
day or so this thirst merges into a suifering which dethrones the mind. 

Continued deprivation of water causes the blood, by virtue of its 
self-regulating power, to withhold fluid from the kidneys and digestive 
glands. As a result the digestive secretions become more concentrated 
and more intense in reaction and greatly diminished in amount. The 
mucous surfaces become dry and parched, especially in the mouth, which 
is the first part of the organism to suffer because of the passage of the 
air and the consequent evaporation. The diminution and altered strength 
of the digestive secretions greatly interfere with and lessen their nor- 
mal action upon the ingested food. The peristaHic movement of food in 
the stomach and intestines is retarded and the absorption of fluid through 
the walls of the alimentary canal is lessened and nutrition retarded. The 



250 WATER IN THE BODY AND IN FOODS 

muscles and other structures dry up and diminish in volume and emacia- 
tion is rapid. 

Diuretic and Diaphoretic Function. — Water is a diuretic and diapho- 
retic. In conditions where it cannot be retained by the stomach it may 
be advantageously administered by the use of a rectal tube. All the 
water so administered will be absorbed if the rectum has been previously 
evacuated and washed out. A half or even a pint of salt solution may be 
introduced subcutaneously, where it will be promptly absorbed and quite 
rapidly eliminated. This method of flushing the kidneys is often resorted 
to in certain diseased conditions where rapid elimination through the 
kidneys is desired. 

Recent experiments by Falck (Archiv fur Physiologic) have shown 
that if the water of the diet be reduced twenty-seven per cent there is 
unmistakable evidence that the blood becomes more concentrated and 
that the solids of the plasma rise from 4,800,000 to 5,580,000 per cubic 
millimeter, and the specific gravity of the blood serum from 1027.4 to 
1033.4. At the same time, the arterial tension and volume of the pulse 
is diminished as the blood becomes more concentrated. This is the usual 
result when water is restricted. Water passes from the tissues into the 
circulation to make good the deficiency. The tissues, therefore, become 
dryer. Hence in cardiac dropsy where the tissues become water-logged 
good results may be secured by restricting the amount of fluid in the diet. 
The tissues then will drain themselves into the blood vessels. 

One or two tumblerfuls of cold water taken on an empty stomach 
in the morning on arising favors the evacuation of the bowels. The 
water, moreover, is quickly absorbed and temporarily increases the fulness 
of the blood vessels, which promotes intestinal secretion and intestinal 
activity. Increased activity of the bowel is explained in this way rather 
than by the idea that the water itself reaches the colon and flushes out 
its contents. 

The temperature of drinking water is a matter of some importance. 
Iced water will stimulate a more rapid and greater secretion of gastric 
juice, but iced water in excess is injurious, as it lessens the motility of 
the stomach, and should not be taken when one is overheated. Hot water 
has a very beneficial effect on an irritated stomach, as in some forms of 
gastritis. 

Pure water is by far the safest of all beverages. A moderate amount 
of water, drunk slowly at the end of each meal, is a valuable aid to di- 
gestion, since it stimulates contractions of the stomach, dispersing wind, 
or diluting any undue acidity, and thereby promoting digestion. A 



USES OF WATER m THE HUMAN SYSTEM 251 

tumbler full of warm or preferably bot water taken just before a meal 
removes mucus and refreshes the gastric mucous membrane. Taken 
three or four hours after a meal, it assists in the final stages of gastric 
digestion, dilutes any undue acidity, and frequently leads to the eructa- 
tion of gas. Thin persons may encourage their appetite by drinking 
frequent sips of water during a meal. They eat more by its aid. The 
water, by its ease of absorption, fills out the intercellular spaces, increas- 
ing the bulk and weight of the body and improving the general condition. 

Water taken in moderate quantities acts as a diluent of the blood, as 
a solvent of waste material, promotes metabolic changes and assists in the 
excretion of waste substances. 

In diseases of the kidney water is of great value, by flushing these 
organs, dissolving and washing the waste materials of metabolism and 
thereby assisting in the prevention or cure of gout, rheumatism, gravel, 
liver and other diseases. 

The vises of water are summarized by Thompson somewhat as follows : 

1. It acts as a diluent of the blood. 

2. It acts as a solvent of waste material. 

3. It promotes metabolic changes. 

4. It assists in the excretion of waste substances. 
6. It serves as a distributor of body heat. 

6. It regulates body temperature through the physiological process 
of absorption and evaporation. 

7. It forms the chief ingredient of all the fluids of the body and 
maintains their proper degree of solution. 

8. It furnishes in the blood and lymph a fluid medium by which 
food may be taken to remote parts of the body. 

9. By moistening the various mucous and serous membranes of the 
body it prevents friction and the uncomfortable symptoms which would 
result from their drying. 

REFERE:^rCES 

In the preparation of this section the author has derived much help 
and drawn largely from the following published works, particularly from 
Practical Hygiene by Harrington; Preventive Medicine and Hygiene 
by M. J. Rosenau ; Treatise on Hygiene by Notter and Firth ; Text-book 
of Physiology by Isaac Ott; Text-book of Physiology by W. H. 
Howell, etc. 



252 WATER m THE BODY AKD IN FOODS 

1. Harrington^ Charles H. Practical Hygiene, 5th revised ed. 

2. RosENAU^ Milton J. Preventive Medicine and Hygiene, 2nd ed., 

p. Y96. 

3. BusiiNER. Centrlbl. f. Bakteriol. u. Parasitenk., xi, p. 781. 

4. Kruse. Ztschr. f. Hyg. und Infectionskrankh., xvii, p. 1. 

5. . Public Health Reports, xxix, p. 356. 

6. Clarke and Goge. Public Health Reports, xxix, 386. 

T. RosENAu, Milton J. Preventive Medicine and Hygiene, 2nd ed. 

8. NoTTER and Firth. Treatise on Hygiene. 

9. Frankland, Prof. Percy. J. of the San. Inst., Oct., 1899, 393. 

10. HoRROCKs, W. H. Bacteriological Examination of Water, London, 

1901, 3. 

11. Mayer, G. Centrlbl. f. Hyg. u. Infectionskrankh., 1899, xxi, 133. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Don, T., and Chisholm, J. Modern Method of Water Purification, 2nd 
ed., New York, 1913, Longmans, Green & Co. 

Hazen, a. Clean Water and How to Get It, New York, 1907, Wiley 
& Sons. 

Mason, W. P. Water Supply, 3rd ed., ISTew York, 1902, Wiley & Sons. 

Prescott, S. C, and Winslow, C. E. A. Elements of Water Bacteri- 
ology, 3rd ed., New York, 1913, Wiley & Sons. 

Report of the Committee of the American Public Health Ass'n. Stand- 
ard Methods of Water Analysis, 2nd ed., 1912. 

Savage, W. G. The Bacteriological Examination of Water Supplies, 
Philadelphia, 1906, Blakiston's Son & Co. 

Thresh, J. C. The Examination of Waters and Water Supplies, 2nd 
ed., Philadelphia, 1914, Blakiston's Son & Co. 

Turneaure, F. E., and Russell, H. L. Public Water Supplies, New 
York, 1907, Wiley & Sons. 

Whipple, G. C. The Microscopy of Drinking Water, 3rd ed., New 
York, 1914, Wiley & Sons. 

For typical and- composite analysis, see 
Annual Reports of the Massachusetts State Board of Health. 
Bulletin of the Illinois State Board of Health. The Municipal Water 

Supplies of Illinois, Tune, 1908, iv, 6. 
Bulletins of the United States Geological Survey Water Supply Papers. 

Some Working Analysis. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 253 

Clarke. The Data of Geochemistry, Chemistry and Physics, 54, U. S. 

Geological Survey, 1908, Bull. No. 330, Series E. 
Da VIES. On the Connection between Milk Supply and Disease, Provi- 
dence Med. J., 1889. 
Deacon. The Constant Supply and Waste of Water, J. Soc. Arts, 1882, 

XXX, 738. 
De Rance. Wator Siip})ly of Enp^land and Wales, London, 1882. 
DovvNEs, A. Diphtlieria Communicated by Drinking Vessels, San. Kec, 

1879-80, xi, 51. 
. Enteric Fever Caused by an Overflow of Non-enteric Sewage 

into a Well, Lancet, April 27, 1872. 
Drown. Interpretation of the Chemical Analysis of Water, Report on 

Water and Sewage to the Massachusetts State Board of Health, 

1890. 
Dunbar. Ueber den Typhus Bacillus und den Bacterium coli communis, 

Ztschr. f. Hygiene, 1892, xii, 485. 
DupuiT. Etudes sur le mouvement des eaux, Paris, 1875. 
Ekin. Potable Water, London, 1890. 

Evans. Our Homes, Cassell & Co., London, 1883, 807, 809. 
Fanning. On Hydraulic and Water Supply Engineering, New York, 

1889. 
Farlow. Supplement to First Annual Report of State Board of Health, 

Mass., 1877, p. 143. 
Farr. Report on the Cholera Epidemic of 1866 in England, Supplement 

to the 29th Annual Report of the Registrar-General, 1868. 
Field. Pollution of Well Water from Cemeteries, Trans. San. Inst., 

viii, 254. 
Flugge. Micro-organisms, New Syd. Soc., London, 1890. 
Frankel. Ueber den Bakteriengehalt des Eisens, Ztschr. f. Hyg., Bd. I. 
Frankland^ E. Water Analysis for Sanitary Purposes, London, 1880. 
Frankland, p. Third Report to the Royal Society Water Research 

Committee, November, 1894. 
. Multiplication of Micro-organisms, Proc. Roy. Soc., London, 

1886. 
. Recent Bacteriological Research in Connection with Water 

Supply, J. Chem. Industries, 1887. 
. Hygienic Value of the Bacteriological Examination of 

Water, Trans. Intemat. Cong. Hyg. & Demog., London, 1891. 
. Experiments on the Vitality and Virulence of Sporiferous 



Anthrax in Potable Water, London, 1894. 



254 WATEK IN THE BODY AND IN FOODS 

Freundenreich. Ueber die Durchlassigkeit der Chamberlandschen Fil- 
ter fiir Bakterien, Centralbl. f. Bakteriol, 1892, vii, 240. 

Fuller. Differentiation of the Bacillus of Typhoid Fever, Kep. State 
Board of Health, Mass., 1891. 

GiBB. Pollution of Cisterns by Sewage, Brit. Med. J., Oct., 1870. 

Gore. Diarrhoea Caused by Impure Water, Army Med. Eep., v, 428. 

Grange. On Analysis of Water, Ann. de chim. et phys., xiv, 364. 

Greenbow. Diarrhoea Caused by Water Which Had Absorbed Sewer 
Gases, 2nd Report Med. Off. of the Priv. Council, 1860, 153. 

GuNTHER. Cholera in Saxony or Die Indische Cholera in Sachsen im 
Jahre 1865, 125. 

Harvey. Food, Water, and Air, London, 1872, 68. 

Hawsley. Report of the Rivers Pollution Commissioners, vi, 233. 

Hirsch. Geographical and Historical Pathology, translated by C. 
Creighton, M.D., 1886, iii, 340-343. 

HocHSTETTER. Ucber Mikro-organismen im kiinstlichen Selterswasser, 
Arbeiten aus dem Kais. Gesundheitsamt, ii. 

Leffmann and Beam. Examination of Water for Sanitary and Tech- 
nical Purposes, London, 1895. 

Musgrave and Clegg. Bull. 18, Bur. Gov. Lab., P. I., No. 93. 

Nichols, A. H. The Contamination of Drinking Water with Impure 
Ice, Seventh Ann. Rep., S. B. H., Mass., 1876, p. 467. 

Parkes, L. C. Moorland Waters, Trans. Chem. Soc, 1899, Ixxv, p. 196. 

Prescott, S. C, and Winslow, C.-E. A. Elements of Water Bacteriol- 
ogy, 3rd ed., pub. by Wiley & Son, New York, 1913. 

Russell, H. L. Public Water Supplies, New York, Wiley & Son, 1907. 

Savage, W. G. The Bacteriological Examination of Water Supplies, 
pub. by Blakiston's Son & Co., Philadelphia, 1906. 

Sedgewick and Winslow. Experiments on the Effects of Freezing and 
Other Low Temperatures on the Viability of the Typhoid Bacillus, 
Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., Aug., 1902, vol. xii, No. 5. 

Thresh, J. C. The Examination of Waters and Water Supplies, 2nd 
ed., pub. by Blakiston's Son & Co., Philadelphia, 1906. 

Whipple, G. C. The Microscopy of Drinking Water, 3rd ed., pub. by 
Wiley & Son, New York, 1914. 

Whitelegge, a. B. Hygiene and Public Health. 

Wood, Harold B. The Economic Value of Protecting Water Supplies, 
J. Am. Med. Assn., Oct. 2, 1909, p. 1093. 



CHAPTER XI 



THE MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND OF FOODS 



General Considerations: The Importance of the Mineral Salts; Mineral 
Matter Contained in the Excretions; Mineral Content of Organs. 

Utilization of Mineral Substances: Form of Mineral Content in Body; 
Function in Body as Regulators of Osmosis; The Metabolism of the 
Inorganic Salts ; The Various Uses of the Mineral Salts. 

Mineral Content of Foods ; Calcium ; Magnesium ; Iron ; Sodium and Potas- 
sium; Phosphorus; Sulphur; Chlorin; lodin; Fluorin; Silica; Bro- 
min; Oxalic Acid; Manganese. 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

Importance of Mineral Salts. — The human hody contains about seven 
pounds of mineral matter, of which five-sixths is in the bones. It is obvi- 
ous from this that the mineral ingredients of the diet are important as 
building material for the human economy and are, therefore, to be 
regarded as foods. The principal minerals required in the food are 
sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron, with phosphorus, chlorin, 
sulphur, and traces of silica, fluorin, iodin and others. 

The mineral salts are indeed so necessary for maintaining the general 
metabolic balance of the body, that death would ensue within thirty days 
if the supply were stopped, even if all the other constituents of a normal 
diet were provided.. 

The inorganic salts of the food are important as tissue builders, but 
of no consequence as sources of heat or energy because the salts in the 
foods enter the body in a form too highly oxidized to be capable of yield- 
ing any heat to the body tissues. 

The mineral salts are quite essential to nerve and muscle reaction, 
and it is due, directly, to their action that a well-balanced osmotic pres- 
sure is maintained. Their action favors absorption by increasing endos- 
mosis of the tissues, thereby assisting metabolic processes. 

255 



256 MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

The metabolism of salts of the body plays a constructive part in the 
physiology of niitrition, and disturbances of this salt metabolism may be 
the cause of disease. Indeed Bunge has shown that the nitrogenous prod- 
ucts of metabolism cannot be eliminated from the body unless mineral 
salts are present. 

The normal human body contains about 200 grams of sodium chlo- 
rid. The body requires daily about ten grams of this element and some- 
thing like 12 grams is excreted daily through the urine, sweat, feces 
and tears. 

A practical illustration of the value of salt to animal life is observed 
by the regularity with which wild animals travel, sometimes great dis- 
tances, to the so-called ^^salt licks.'' It is also interesting to note that 
among animals the herbivora require salt in their food, while the car- 
nivora do not. Domestic animals will allow themselves to be caught for 
the sake of a handful of common salt. Whenever a high tax has been im- 
posed on salt and its use restricted, the health of the people has suffered. 
In writing on this subject Bunge says : "Most vegetables are rich in potas- 
sium, which is ultimately eliminated in the form of mineral salts, largely 
as sulphate. Potassium sulphate in the blood reacts to some extent with 
sodium chlorid, forming potassium chlorid and sodium sulphate, both of 
which are rapidly eliminated by the kidneys. Hence the greater the 
amount of potash in the food, the greater the loss of sodium and chlorin 
from the blood, and the greater the necessity for salt to keep up the nor- 
mal sodium chlorid content of the body." 

Bunge also believes that while man might live without the addition 
of salt to the food, even on a diet largely vegetarian, nevertheless, without 
salt he would soon experience a disinclination to eat much of the vege- 
tables rich in potassium, such as potatoes, so that the use of salt tends to 
enable us to utilize a more varied selection of the earth's food products. 
Excessive use of salts probably acts injuriously by overstimulating the 
digestive tract, and may overtax the organs concerned in its elimination 
and thereby cause untoward symptoms. Under certain conditions even 
small amounts may be excreted in such quantity in the urine that they 
cannot be held in suspension and as a consequence are deposited in the 
urinary tract and cause the formation of concretions — "stones." 

Mineral Matter Contained in Excretions.— The average amounts of the 
various mineral compounds excreted in the urine, feces and sweat are 
shown by the following table worked out by Gautier and other physiolo- 
gists: 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIOKS 



257 



Mineral Matter Contained in the Urine, Feces, and Sweat op Man (Gau- 

TIER, APrER BiSCHOFF, VoiT, WeHSARQ, MaGNIER, AND LaPICQUE) 



Water 

Saline material 

These salts comprise: 

Chlorin 

Phosphoric anhydrid (PaOs) (pentoxid). 

Sulphuric anhydrid (SO3) (trioxid) 

Silicic anhydrid (SiOa) (dioxid) 

Carbonic anhydrid (CO2) (dioxid) 

Potassium oxid (K2O) 

Sodium oxid (NaaO) 

Calcium oxid (CaO) 

Magnesium oxid (MgO) 

Ferric Oxid (FezOa) 



Urine of 
24 hours 


Fecal 

material of 

24 hours 


Sweat of 
24 hours 


Grains 


Grams 


Grams 


1220-1350 


100-119 


750-850 


17.3-22 


4.35-6 


1.6-2.4 


4.9-7.2 


0.015-0.035 


1.12 


1.6-3 


0.76-0.82 


Traces 


1.4-2.26 


0.06-0.17 


0.005 


0.003-0.004 


0.17-0.35 


0.005 


0.003-0.004 


0.05 


0.005 


1.6-3.1 


0.75-0.30 


0.178 


4.16-5.9 


0.25-0.35 


0.80 


0.24-0.36 


0.65-0.70 


Traces 


0.56-0.36 


0.65-0.70 


Traces 


0.004-0.013 


0.023-0.04 


Traces 



Mineral Content of Organs. — The following table shows the mineral con- 
tent of specific organs : 

Mineral Matter Contained in the Principal Organs — fgr 1,000 Parts 
OF THE Fresh Organs (Gautier) 



Mineral mat- 
ter per 1000 

grams of 
fresh sub- 
stance 


Muscles 

of 
Mammals 


Nervous 
Tissue 


Bone 


Liver 


In 1,000 Parts of 
Blood 


Lymph 


Cor- 
puscles 


Plasma 


Chlorin 

P2O6 


Grams 

9-12 

0.5-0.7 

3.4-5 

2.2 

2.2 

3-3.9 

0.4-0.7 

0.9-0.18 

0.4 
0.03-0.02 
0.03-0.02 


Grams 

2-17 

0.4 
0.85-1.4 

0.14 

0.14 
0.71-2.12 
0.75-1.3 

0.03 
0.065-0.75 
0.04-0.12 
0.21-0.33 


Grams 

620-690 

0.6-0.7 

196-247 

0.20 

0.20 

0.20 

0.20 

270-500 

4-6 

4-6 

3.2-4.5 


Grams 
9 to 11 
0.25-0.42 
5.02^.27 
0.09-0.092 
0.027-0.018 
2.52-3.47 
1.45-1.13 
0.36-0.03 
0.02-0.007 
0.27-0.17 
0.27-0.17 


Grams 
6.5 to 0.0 
0.36-0.9 
0.69-0.65 
0.69-0.65 
0.69-0.65 

1.6-1.4 
0.24-0.65 
0.19-0.25 

0.07 

0.77 

0.77 


Grams 
7.1 

1.7 .1-4 
0.71-2.2 
0.71-2.2 
0.71-2.2 
0.15-0.20 
1.66-1.9 
0.06-0.08 
0.02-0.05 
0.006 
0.006 


Grama 
7.47 
3.08 
0.18 


SO3 


0.09 


Si02 

K2O 


0.09 
0.16 


NaaO 

CaO 


3.07 

ki5 

0.15 
0.50 


MgO 

Fe^Os 

CO2 ... 







258 MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

Bunge in his admirable work has tabulated the composition of some 
of the commoner food materials in respect to the salt content which is 
shown in the following table : 

Salt Content in 100 Parts by Weight op Dried Substance (Bunge) 

K.O Na^O CaO MgO F^Og P^OS CI 

Beef 1.66 0.32 0.029 0.152 0.02 1.83 0.28 

Wheat 0.62 0.06 0.065 0.24 0.026 0.94 ? 

Potatoes 2.28 0.11 0.100 0.19 0.042 0.64 0.13 

White of egg 1.44 1.45 0.130 0.13 0.026 0.20 1.32 

Peas 1.13 0.03 0.137 0.22 0.024 0.99 ? 

Human milk 0.58 0.17 0.243 0.05 0.003 0.35 0.32 

Milk of egg .....0.27 0.17 0.380 0.06 0.040 1.90 0.35 

Cow's milk 1.67 1.05 1.510 0.20 0.003 1.86 1.60 

We now understand the great importance of, and the absolute neces- 
sity for, the mineral salts in our foodstuffs. We cannot know how much 
of these substances is required for healthy nutrition in as precise a man- 
ner as we can calculate the need for carbon or for nitrogen. This is be- 
cause many of the waste mineral matters of the body are excreted by the 
intestine, and we have no exact means of calculating just the proportion 
which escapes absorption, and how much has been excreted from the blood 
after playing a part in metabolism. It is safe, however, to assert that the 
amount of mineral matter in an ordinary, well-balanced diet is quite suf- 
ficient for all the needs of the body. 

The mineral salts required daily for the average adult, showing a daily 
requirement of about 24 grams of the inorganic salts, and their combina- 
tion with certain acids, are summarized by Gautier as follows: 

Bases Acids 

Grams Grams 

K2O 3.22 P2O5 3.9 

NasO 7.70 SO3 2.03 

CaO 1.47 SO, 0.25 

^fgO 0.56 CI 8.50 

Fe20, 0.04 CO2 0.05 

Many, if not indeed most, of the various mineral constituents which 
enter into a well-balanced diet are in a state of organic combination. Thus 
we find calcium and phosphorus organically combined in milk, iron in 



UTILIZATlOISr OF MINEKAL SUBSTANCES 259 

the yolk of eggs and in meat, magnesium in bread, sulphur in the pro- 
tein-containing foods, and so on. 

It has been ascertained from analyses of hnman milk that an infant 
reqnires about five grains of lime daily. The adult, owing to cessa- 
tion of the growth of the bones, requires less. Insulticient lime in an in- 
fant's diet leads to softening of the bones; but it must be remembered 
that though an element of rickets, this softening is not really the root of 
the disease, for it is too well known that an infant may suffer from the 
disease even though there may be an actual excess of lime salts in the 
food. On the other hand, in old age, various pathological conditions have 
been ascribed to the excessive consumption of calcium in the food. It 
must be admitted, however, that there is but little real evidence for such 
views. It is also questionable whether the intestine ever absorbs more 
of any mineral substance than the tissues actually require, and even if 
there is a tendency to the accumulation of such substances in any par- 
ticular situation, the fault is possibly due to some local tissue change 
rather than to any undue increase of absorption. 

There is a lowered calcium excretion in many diseased conditions, 
among which may be mentioned pleural effusion, delirium tremens and 
pneumonia. On the other hand, in osteomalacia, the calcium balance is 
disturbed and more is excreted than is taken into the body. In myositis 
ossificans, the amount of calcium excreted in the urine is lower than nor- 
mal. There is also a retention of lime salts in arthritis deformans. 



UTILIZATION OF MINERAL SUBSTANCES 

Form of Mineral Salts in the Body. — The mineral constituents of the 
body are found not only in combination with the organic constituents, 
but also partly in solution — in the fluids of the organism. The method 
of determining the condition of the mineral constituents of any substance 
consists in dissolving out the inorganic salts, burning the organic part 
remaining, and then estimating the inorganic material in the ash. In 
the human body, for instance, the ash content of the mineral matter, 
including the bones, which are rich in calcium, is about 4.3 to 4.4 per 
cent of the body weight. The bones, however, in the adult contain most 
of this ash (five-sixths). The soft tissues, like the muscles, constitute 
about 0.6 to 0.8 per cent of the moist weight. 

Organic bodies subjected to high degrees of heat with the access of air, 
liberate and set free the mineral matter. The same process takes place 



260 MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

when foods are oxidized in the tissues of the body. The liberated min- 
eral substances form new combinations, chiefly inorganic salts. The in- 
organic salts formed in the body in this manner are largely excreted in 
the urine and other excretions, or they may be retained and recombine 
with freshly absorbed organic food materials from the digestive system. 
The latter view is upheld by Forster(l) ; if correct, it would appear that 
a constant supply of salts in the food is unnecessary, or, at any rate, that 
the necessary amount is small. 

According to Hammarsten(2), man needs very little mineral matter, 
and this in general is to be obtained from the daily food, since the latter 
usually contains a greater quantity than is required by the human body. 
The daily excretion of mineral matter is not an index of the require-, 
ments of the body for its mineral constituents. Finally, this investigator 
holds that since the mineral salts are a part of the ingested food they 
must be excreted when they cease to be of use to the organism. In the 
present state of our knowledge, however, these statements cannot be 
accepted without reserve, for further investigation is necessary to deter- 
mine the definite requirements of the human body for its mineral con- 
stituents. But it has been demonstrated that the organism cannot exist 
on food that contains no mineral matter. 

Numerous laboratory experiments have been made upon growing rats 
fed upon artificial diets (8). These have shown that if the necessary pro- 
teins, fats and carbohydrates are supplied, but the inorganic salts omitted, 
the animal promptly loses weight and dies. 

It is known at the present time that life cannot be maintained on foods 
deficient in inorganic salts. It is also recognized by research workers that 
something more is essential for the maintenance, growth and well-being 
of man than protein, fat and carbohydrate. Unless food contains suffi- 
cient mineral matter, no matter how well balanced the ration may be, in 
the ternary food elements, nor how large quantities are ingested, nor how 
high the caloric value, there will be malnutrition. In Forster's experi- 
ments, dogs and pigeons fed on demineralized food died earlier than 
those that were entirely deprived of food. In these animals disturbance 
of the functions of various organs, especially the muscles and nerves, 
was noted before death occurred. From this he concluded that the 
full-grown animal requires a considerable quantity of inorganic salts. 
Bunge also held to the theory that the constant renewal of the inorganic 
portion of our body was not necessary, and that when the body once 
reached maturity, it would last indefinitely. Unfortunately this is not so. 

The following table, taken from Tibbies, graphically shows the per- 



UTILIZATION OF MINERAL SUBSTANCES 



261 



centage present in the various parts and organs of the body of the prin- 
cipal inorganic salts: 

Composition of Ash— Percentages 





Bone 
(Heintz) 


Muscle 
(Staffel) 


Liver 
(Oidtmann) 


Spleen 
(Oidtmann) 


Sodium chlorid 


37.58 
1.22 

1.66 
53.31 

5.47 


10.59 

2.35 

34.40 

1.99 

1.45 

48.13 

' .81 


14.33 

25.23 

3.61 

.20 

2.74 

2.58 

50.18 
.92 

".27 




Potassium chlorid 




Soda 


44.33 


Potash 


9.60 


Lime 


7.48 


Magnesia. . . 


49 


Ferric oxid 


7.28 


Chlorin 


54 


Fluorin 




Phosphoric acid . . . . 


27 10 


Sulphuric acid 


2.54 


Carbonic acid 




Silicic acid 


17 







Composition of Ash — Percentages 





Brain 
(Breed) 


Blood 
(Verdell) 


Lymph 
(Dahnhardt) 


Milk 
(Wilderstein) 


Sodium chlorid . 


4.74 

10.69 

34.42 

.72 

1.23 

50.18 
.92 

".27 


58.81 

4.15 
11.97 
1.76 
1.12 
8.37 

10.23 
1.67 
1.19 


74.48 

10.35 

3.25 

.97 

.26 

.05 

1.09 

8.20 
.42 


10 73 


Potassium chlorid 


26.33 


Soda . 




Potash 


21.44 


Lime 


18 78 


Magnesia 


.87 


Ferric oxid 


.10 


Chlorin 




Fluorin 




Phosphoric acid 


19.00 


Sulphuric acid 


2 64 


Carbonic acid 




Silicic acid 









The ash of the body consists of chlorids, phosphates, sulphates, carbo- 
nates, fluorids, and silicates of potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium 
and iron; iodin occurs also in the thyroid gland. In the body fluids the 
principal inorganic salts are sodium chlorid, sodium carbonate, sodium 
phosphate, potassium and calcium chlorid and phosphate. In the chapter 
dealing with organic foodstuffs, stress is laid upon their value as sources 



262 MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

of energy as well as their function in the repair of and in constructing 
tissue. The mineral salts are of importance as tissue builders. Their 
chemical changes taking place in the body are not attended by any 
liberation of heat or energy — at least, not of enough importance to be 
considered here. This does not mean that they do not exercise important 
functions in the human economy. 

Function of Salts in the Body. — In studying the subject of osmosis and 
diffusion, we learned that they maintain the normal composition of the 
body fluids by regulating the osmotic pressure, and so playing an impor- 
tant role in the control of the flow of water to and from the tissues. For 
the body consists largely of water, which is an essential element for the 
removal of effete products arising from the various processes of metab- 
olism, cell growth and disintegration. 

According to Howell (4) these inorganic salts constitute an essential 
part of the composition of all living matter. They are an integral part 
of the structure of the living molecule, and are vitally necessary to its 
normal reactions or irritability. "Even the proteins of the body fluids 
contain definite amounts of ash, and if this ash is removed, their proper- 
ties are seriously altered, as is shown by the fact that ash-free native pro- 
teins lose their property of coagulation by heat. The globulins are pre- 
cipitated from their solutions when the salts are removed." The special 
importance of the calcium salts in the curdling of milk receives attention 
in the section dealing with this foodstuff. The action of the salts of iron 
in the production of hemoglobin has received attention elsewhere. It is 
an accepted fact that all the salts of the body possess no nutritive value. 

Year by year our conception of the metabolism of the mineral con- 
stituents of the body broadens and ^'the time will doubtless come when the 
special importance of the potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium' 
will be understood as well, at least, as we now understand the significance 
of iron, and quite possibly this knowledge will find a direct therapeutic 
application, just as in the case of iron" (5). 

According to the teachings of Bunge the proteins contain from 0.5 to 
1.5 per cent of sulphur, which during metabolism is transformed into sul- 
phuric acid. Under normal metabolic conditions, the sulphuric acid aris- 
ing in this manner combines with the inorganic salts contained in animal 
or vegetable foods. The acid, being neutralized, is removed from the body 
by the organs of excretion. If there are no salts or bases at hand to neu- 
tralize the acid so evolved, it seizes upon the salts or bases of the body 
tissues, and, as has been picturesquely said, it wrenches from their places 
the bricks of the structure, thus bringing about a catabolic destruction of 



t 



UTILIZATION OF MINERAL SUBSTANCES 263 

the organism. This statement may be met by a description of the pro- 
tective agency of the organism in its ability to split off ammonia from 
the nitrogenous organic compounds, thus neutralizing the injurious effect 
of free acids. But this power has its limitations. Furthermore, it is 
not certain that ammonia is always present in these special cells from 
which the sulphuric acid originates to start its catabolic process (6). 
Lunin writing on this subject coincides with the views of Bunge. In 
a series of experiments he fed animals on practically an ash-free diet, 
adding only enough sodium carbonate to neutralize acidity. They were 
kept viable twice as lo'ig as the control animals subsisting on the same 
food, minus the sodium carbonate. Sodium chlorid did not answer the 
same purpose, nor did the carbonate of the same base indefinitely prolong 
life, death eventually resulting from the want of the proper inorganic salts 
in the food. The haphazard addition of mineral substances to the ration 
will not satisfy the' system. Animals fed with normal milk will live, but 
the same animals will die when given an artificial milk even though it 
contains the exact percentage of casein, fat, sugar and the salts of milk. 
The reason is not explainable, though it is probable that the mineral 
constituents of normal milk are chemically combined with its inorganic 
constituents. It is known that the ions of inorganic materials enter into 
combination with protein. We may assume, too, that at least some of 
the inorganic constituents of foodstuffs form with organic substances a 
loose combination, thus influencing the assimilation and value of the latter. 
Sodium chlorid, calcium and the ferrugenous salts are of special im- 
portance to the organism. Sodium chlorid occupies a peculiar place 
among the inorganic constituents of our diet, and according to 
Howell (7) it is the only one which we deliberately add to our food. The 
other inorganic material is taken unconsciously in our diet — but although 
sodium chlorid exists also in our food in relatively large quantities, we 
purposely add more. Bunge has pointed out "that among men and ani- 
mals the desire for salt is limited, for the most part, to those who partake 
largely of vegetable food. This writer also calls attention to the fact 
that in the use of a strictly animal diet, craving for salt is not felt. In 
the use of vegetable diet, on the other hand, the craving for salt becomes 
so marked as to constitute a serious inconvenience when for any reason 
it cannot be added to the diet. It may be that this longing for salt by 
vegetarians is governed by the high percentage of potassium salts in all 
vegetables, the potassium salts reacting with sodium chlorid during the 
process of digestion. For, as Howell says, potassium sulphate added to 
the blood reacts with sodium chlorid, resulting in the formation of 



264 MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

potassium chlorid and sodium sulphate. These two salts, except in neg- 
ligible quantities, being foreign to the blood, will be excreted by the 
kidneys, thus the blood will lose some of its sodium chlorid (8). 

The subject of salt-poor and salt-free diets is discussed at length in 
the following volume of this work.^ It cannot be doubted but that we 
habitually, under ordinary conditions, use sodium chlorid in much larger 
amounts than is necessary to maintain the normal sodium chlorid content 
of the blood. Its universal use, as a condiment by all classes, uncon- 
sciously leads to the habit of using it in excess of normal requirements. 
The continuous ingestion of excessive quantities of sodium chlorid will 
eventually produce a condition of anasarca, owing to the fact that the 
physiological action of the salt increases osmotic pressure in the tissues. 
Likewise in conditions of edema or of "water-logged" conditions the re- 
striction of table salt from the foods will give a contrary result and aid 
in the restoration of the parts to a normal condition, so far as the water 
in the tissues is concerned. 

The importance of the calcium salts has been clearly demonstrated by 
feeding experiments. Howell concludes that when young dogs are given 
a diet poor in calcium salts, they fall into a condition closely resembling 
rickets in children, owing to deficient growth of the bones. Pigeons when 
fed on a calcium-free diet, soon exhibit a condition of atrophy and fragil- 
ity of the bones due in all probability to the lack of calcium in the food. 
As in the case of other food materials, there must be maintained a calcium 
metabolism in the body. There is some evidence that the calcium content 
of the body increases with age, as the bones are exceedingly brittle in the 
aged, and become more fragile and more liable to break than in youth, 
and furthermore, in advanced life elasticity of the arteries diminishes as 
the calcium salts are deposited in their walls. 

The ferruginous salts are constantly necessary for the production of 
new hemoglobin; the requisite amount is supplied normally in our food 
in which they exist in organic combination. (See analysis of iron content 
of various foods in a subsequent page of this chapter.) 

The uses of the mineral salts derived from food have been summarized 
by Thompson as follows: 

1. To regulate the specific gravity of the blood and other fluids of the 
body. 

2. To regulate the chemical reaction of the blood and the various se- 
cretions and excretions. 



1 Volume TT, chapter on Scientific Feeding. 



MINERAL CONTENT IN FOODS 265 

3. To preserve the tissues from disorganization and putrefaction. 

4. To control the rate of absorption by osmosis. 

5. To enter into the permanent composition of certain structures, 
especially the bones and teeth. 

6. To enable the blood to hold certain materials in solution. 

7. To serve special purposes, such, for example, as the influence of 
sodium chlorid on hydrochloric acid formation, and that of lime salts in 
favoring coagulation of the blood. 



MINERAL CONTENT IN FOODS 

Calcium. — We will now pass on to the consideration of the amount 
and kind of mineral salts met with in different articles of food and will 
first take up calcium, because it is one of the important salts of the body. 
The following table by Hoobler(9) shows the calcium percentage in the 
following foods : 

Calcium-containing Foods with Content Estimated as CaO 

Fruits, 30 to 7 per cent. — Citron, oranges, pineapples, figs, pears, cherries, olives. 

Berries, 14 to 8 per cent. — Strawberries, gooseberries, currants, huckleberries. 

Nuts, 9 to 8 per cent. — Almonds, walnuts. 

Cereals, 8 to 7 per cent. — Oatmeal, commeal, wheat flour. 

Vegetables, 27 to 5 per cent. — Savoy cabbage, cauliflower, onions, lettuce, radishes, 
celery, cabbage, endive, spinach, asparagus, carrots, kohlrabi, turnips, 
rhubarb, artichokes, pumpkin, lentils, cucumbers, tomatoes, beans. 

Milk, eggs, cheese, 35 to 8 per cent. — Cheese, milk, egg yolks, eggs. 

Meat and fish, 18 to 7 per cent. — Oysters, salmon, pickerel, pork. 

Magnesium. — We will next consider magnesium, which is usually 
present in foodstuffs in about the same proportion as calcium. There are, 
however, exceptions to the rule. In milk, for instance, magnesium is less, 
while in meats it is rather more abundant than calcium, and in bread there 
is actually five times as much of the former as the latter. The following 
table from Hoobler gives the magnesium content of the following foods. 

Magnesium-containing Foods with Content Estimated as MGO 

Fruits, 8 to 5 per cent. — Apples, pineapples, oranges, figs, pears, citron, cherries, 

plums. 
Berries, 6 to 5 per cent. — Currants, huckleberries, gooseberries. 
Nuts, 18 to 6 per cent. — Almonds, walnuts, chestnuts, cocoanuts. 



266 MINEKAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

Vegetables, 9 to 5 per cent. — Tomatoes, sugar beets, peas, cauliflower, kohlrabi, 
lettuce, spinach, celery, carrots, onions. 

Cereals, 16 to 5 per cent. — Com, cornmeal, wheat, wheat flour, barley, meal, buck- 
wheat, rice, rice flour, rye flour, oatmeal, rolled oats, graham bread. 

Meats and fish, 9 to 5 per cent. — Salmon, pork. 

Iron. — Iron, although one of the most widely distributed elements, 
occurs in the uncombined state only in small quantities, and as such is of 
no use in organic nature. It occurs in the earth in combination with 
oxygen, and is taken up by plants as an inorganic oxid. There are two 
forms : ferric oxid, which is a weak base, unable to fix carbonic acid ; and 
ferrous oxid, a strong base which forms neutral salts with all acids. Iron 
is of extreme value as a carrier of oxygen, especially in organic life. It 
is concerned in the production of chlorophyll; without it the plant be- 
comes pale and etiolated. As a part of vegetables it is consumed by ani- 
mals and utilized in the construction of hematogens (iron-containing com- 
pounds of nucleo-albumin) and hemoglobin (the oxygen carrier of the 
blood). 

The most important inorganic salt to which the dietitian needs to give 
special attention is iron. This substance is absolutely essential in the 
making of rich red blood. In certain diseased conditions it sometimes 
happens that more iron is excreted from the body than is assimilated from 
the food. This disturbed metabolism is the result of some disturbance of 
nutrition either in the digestion, the absorption or the assimilation; but 
whatever the disturbance is, the blood-making organs do not receive the 
necessary amount of iron. The blood becomes nearly destitute of hemo- 
globin; the pallor of the patient becomes extreme, until it reaches a 
condition of waxy etiolation. 

It is difficult to give precise figures as to the amount of iron present 
in different articles of diet. In animal foods it depends very largely on 
whether the animal was bled, or not, when killed. In vegetable foods it 
varies very greatly with the amount of iron in the soil. 

Another source of iron is to be found in the chlorophyll or green pig- 
ment of plants and vegetables, usually served in the menu in the form of 
greens, as spinach, turnip tops, celery, cabbage and chard. It is interest- 
ing to note in passing that the highly colored, deep red meat of the better 
cuts of steak or mutton, or the breast of wild game, as well as the highly 
colored plant green, owes this coloring to a pigment rich in iron. The 
dietitian seeks this pigment to bring back to the blanched cheek of his 
anemic patient the ruddy flush of health, which is maintained by a blood 
rich in iron. 



MINERAL CONTENT IN FOODS 



267 



The following table of Boussinganett showing the percentage of iron 
in various food materials is approximately correct; 

Iron in Fresh Substances 



Blood of pig 0.06340 

Blood of ox 0.03750 

Oats 0.01310 

Lentils 0.00830 

Haricots 0.00740 

Egg 0.00570 

Beef 0.00480 

Wheaten bread 0.00480 

Spinach 0.00450 



Maize 0.00360 

Veal 0.00270 

Apples 0.00200 

White fish 0.00150 

Potatoes 0.00150 

Milk 0.00180 

Rice 0.00150 

Carrots 0.00090 

Burgundy 0.00190 



Cabbage 0.00390 Beer 



0.00040 



Bunge gives the following order of foods containing iron, the ash of 
spinach containing most, and milk least: spinach, 0.045; yolk of egg, 
0.04; beef, 0.02; apples, 0.02; lentils, strawberries, white beans, peas, 
0.024; egg-white, 0.026; wheat, 0.026; potato, milk, 0.003 per cent. 
Stockmann estimates that the average adult diet contains 10 milligrams of 
iron per diem. One pint of milk contains 2.2 milligrams of iron; 100 
grams of oatmeal contain 3.1 milligrams of iron; 300 grams of fine bread 
contain 1.8 milligrams of iron; 280 grams of common bread contain 1.1 
milligrams of iron, and 120 grams of beefsteak contain 4.7 milligrams of 
iron. 

Among animal foods, therefore, there is most iron in heef and yolk of 
egg, and least in milk. Oatmeal and lentils are the vegetables which con- 
tain most iron ; but spinach, strawberries, white beans, peas, potatoes and 
apples contain a good deal. Food is the chief and only natural source 
of iron in the animal world. It should be noted here that iron contained 
in hemoglobin and its derivatives is very sparingly absorbed. It is all the 
more necessary to point this out as hemoglobin preparations are being 
advocated in the treatment of anemia. 

It is possible that the habitual consumption of foods which are poor in 
iron may eventually lead to anemia, though it is difficult to conceive a diet 
that would not contain the small amount of this element required daily. 
Verdell and Subbotin declare, however, that the ash of the blood of dogs 
fed on meat contained much more iron than that of animals nourished on 
bread. Hoesslein has shown that if young animals receive only as much 



268 MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 



iron as adults they become anemic. The table from Hoobler gives the 
percentage of iron contained in the following foods: 

Iron-containing Foods with Content Estimated as FegOg 

Fruits, 2 to 1 per cent. — Figs, pineapples, apples, pears, plums. 

Berries, 5 to 1 per cent. — Strawberries, gooseberries, huckleberries. 

Nuts, 1.8 to 1.3 per cent. — Cocoanuts, walnuts. 

Cereals, 2 to 1 per cent. — Rye, flour, barley meal, barley flour, rice, buckwheat 
flour, cornmeal, corn flour, rice flour, wheat, wheat flour, graham flour. 

Vegetables, 5.3 to 1 per cent. — Lettuce, onions, asparagus, spinach, endive, kohl- 
rabi, pumpkins, artichokes, tomatoes, lentils, black radishes, celery, rhubarb, 
potatoes, mushrooms, beets. 

Bulletin No. 185, Experiment Station, United States Department of 
Agriculture, shows the amount of iron contained in the following foods: 
Proportion of Iron in Food Materials 



Food material 



Meats 

Fish and shellfish 

Eggs, edible portion 

Milk 

Cream , 

Cheese 

Corn meal 

Oatmeal and other breakfast 
cereals 

Rice 

Wheat breakfast food used in 
dietary study No. 486 

Wheat flour, crackers, and mac- 
aroni 

Bread 

Whole-wheat flour 

Whole-wheat bread 

Green vegetables (asparagus, 
cabbage, celery, collards, 
greens, lettuce, onions, rhu- 
barb) 

Roots (beets, carrots, parsnips, 
radishes, sweet potatoes, tur- 
nips) 

Pumpkins 

Squash : 

Beans, string 

Beans, Lima, dried 

Beans, pea, dried 



Per cent 
of iron 



(1) 

(1) 
0.0030 
.0024 
.0002 
.0015 
.00115 

.0036 
.0008 

.0057 

.0015 
.0010 
.0020 
.0013 



.0008 



.006 

.0006 

.0006 

.0016 

.0072 

.0067 



Food material 



Corn, canned 

Corn, dried 

Cucumbers, as purchased. . . . 

Peas, fresh 

Peas, dried 

Peas, canned 

Potatoes, as purchased 

Potatoes, edible portion 

Spinach 

Tomatoes, fresh or canned. . . 

Vegetable soup, canned, con- 
densed 

Apples, fresh 

Apples, evaporated 

Bananas, edible portion 

Bananas, as purchased 

Grapes 

Lemons, as purchased 

Oranges and lemons, edible por- 
tion 

Prunes, edible portion 

Prunes, as purchased 

Raisins 

Strawberries 

Canned and preserved fruit 
jellies, jam 

Peanuts 

Chocolate 



Per cent 
of iron 



0.0007 
.0029 
.0001 
.0015 
.0056 
.0008 
.0010 
.00125 
.0030 
.0004 

.0005 
.0003 
.0014 
.0008 
.0005 
.0013 
.0001 

.0002 
.0029 
.0025 
.0036 
.0009 

.0003 
.0020 
.0020 



iln meats 0.015 gram iron per 100 grams protein, and in fish and shellfish 0.005 
gram iron per 100 grams protein. 



MINERAL CONTENT IN FOODS 269 

Milligrams of Iron in 100 Grams of Dried Substance (Bunge) 



Blood serum 

White of hen's eggs 

Rice 

Pearl barley 

Wheat flour (sifted) 

Cows' milk 

Human milk 

Dogs' milk 

Figs 

Raspberries 

Hazel-nut kernels 

Barley 

Cabbage (inside yellow leaves) 

Rye 

Peeled almonds 

Wheat. 

Bilberries 

Potato(>s 

Peas 




Trace 
1.0-20 
1.4-1.5 

1.6 

2.3 
2.3-3.1 

3.2 

3.7 

3.9 

4.3 

4.5 

4.5 

4.9 

4.9 

5.5 

5.7 

6.4 
6.2-6.6 



Black cherries, without stones 

White beans 

(varrots 

Wheat bran 

Strawberries 

Linseed 

Unpeeled almonds 

Red cherries, without stones . 
Brown skinned hazel nuts — 

Apples 

Dandelion leaves 

Cabbage (outer green leaves). 

Beef 

Asparagus 

Yolk of egg 

Spinach 

Pigs' blood 

Hematogen 

Hemaglobin 



7.2 
8.3 
8.6 
8.8 
8.6-9.3 
9.5 
9.5 
10 
13 
13 
14 
17 
17 
20 
10-24 
33-39 
226 
290 
340 



Sodium and Potassium. — The sodium and potassium salts will be con- 
sidered together. The former is required in the body for the proper con- 
stitution of its fluids, the latter for the construction of cells, especially of 
the red blood cells and the muscles. In fact young animals deprived of 
potassium do not develop good muscles. 

The vegetable group is richest in potassium; animal foods contain a 
larger amount of the sodium. Bunge gives the following table of propor- 
tions : 

To one equivalent of sodium there is : in yolk of egg, 1 equivalent of 
potassium; in milk, 0.8 to 6 equivalents of potassium; in veal, 4 equiva- 
lents of potassium; in wheat, 12 to 24 equivalents of potassium; in pota- 
toes, 31 to 42 equivalents of potassium; in peas, 44 to 50 equivalents of 
potassium. 

Early physiologists and clinicians taught that a deficiency of potash 
salts was the main cause of scurvy. This is now discredited. However, 
potash is useful not alone for its action as an element, but for the vege- 
table acids with which it is combined, and which, by oxidation, assist in 
maintaining a proper degree of alkalinity of the blood. Green vegetables 
and wholesome fruits are a valuable source of these salts. 

Sodium is taken chiefly in the form of sodium chlorid, common table 
salt. The amount of sodium chlorid contained in natural form in ordi- 
nary foods is quite suflicient for health. On the other hand there is no 
proof that an extra addition of salt in the form of a condiment is in any 



270 MINERAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

way injurious. We do not yet know whether the addition of salt to food 
is of benefit or not. 

If sodium chlorid be entirely eliminated from the diet, the secretion 
of hydrochloric acid is lessened, or even arrested. Upon this basis it has 
been proposed to limit the use of salt in hyperacidity, and hyperchlor- 
hydria of the stomach. Concerning the action of salt upon the general 
processes of nutrition of thie body, the latest and most conclusive experi- 
ments of Straub show that any action salt may have is in the direction 
of lessening nitrogenous waste, provided enough water is supplied at the 
same time. 

The craving for salt as an addition to the diet is strongest among 
vegetarians, which is ingeniously explained on the lines that the larger 
proportion of potassium in vegetable food would tend to drive all the 
sodium out of the body where the latter was not constantly reinforced by 
addition of salt to the food. 

The following tables from Hoobler give the percentage content of 
sodium and pot-assium found in various foods: 

Sodium-containing Foods with Content Estimated as NagO 

Fruits, 26 to 7 per cent. — Apples, oranges, apricots, pineapples, pears, olives. 

Berries, 28 to 9 per cent. — Strawberries, gooseberries. 

Cereals, 40 to 14 per cent. — Macaroni, barley, flour, brown bread, white bread, 
graham bread. 

Vegetables, 48 to 7 per cent. — Blood beets, spinach, carrots, pumpkin, radishes, 
asparagus, tomatoes, lentils, endive, cauliflower, turnips, sugar beets, arti- 
chokes, lettuce. Savoy cabbage. 

Milk, eggs, cheese, 31 to 8 per cent. — Egg whites, eggs, milk. 

Meats and fish, 30 to 8 per cent. — Oysters, pickerel, salmon. 

Potassium-containing Foods with Content Estimated as KgO 

Fruits, 81 to 35 per cent. — Olives, plums, apricots, figs, pears, cherries, pineapples, 
citron, oranges, apples. 

Berries, 57 to 21 per cent. — Huckleberries, currants, gooseberries, strawberries. 

Nuts, 56 to 28 per cent. — Chestnuts, cocoanuts, walnuts, almonds. 

Cereals, 38 to 14 per cent. — Rye flour, wheat flour, cracked wheat, rolled oats, 
commeal, cornmeal flour, hominy, barley flour, barley meal, oatmeal, buck- 
wheat flour, oatmeal flour, rice flour, graham bread. 

Vegetables, 60 to 16 per cent. — Potatoes, rhubarb, cucumbers, mushrooms, cabbage, 
turnips, celery, beans, peas, tomatoes, endive, lettuce, carrots, kohlrabi, 
lentils, radishes. Savoy cabbage, onions, artichokes, asparagus, cauliflower, 
pumpkins, blood beets, spinach. 

Milk, eggs, cheese, 31 to 13 per cent. — Egg whites, milk, eggs, cheese. 

Meats and fish, 48 to 24 per cent. — Beef, pork, veal, salmon, pickerel. 



MINERAL CONTENT IN FOODS 271 

Phosphorus. — This element is present in large quantities in the human 
body. Voit concludes that a man weighing 154 pounds should have 1,400 
grams in the bones, 180 grams in the muscles, and 12 grams in the brain 
and nerves. Phosphorus is also present in the body fluids, and enters into 
the composition of all cell nuclei. One would naturally expect, therefore, 
that wherever growth is active, much phosphorus is required in the food, 
and it is not surprising to find that the development of young animals 
which are deprived of it is seriously impaired. Hence the great impor- 
tance of furnishing a plentiful supply of foods containing phosphorus in 
the dietary of the growing child. 

Organic phosphorus is present in all the cellular elements of food — 
in the yolk of egg^ sweetbread, fish roe and in the germ of cereals and 
legumes. The amount of phosphorus in various foods, reckoned as phos- 
phoric acid, is shown in the following tables (10) : 

Per Cent of PgO^ in Fresh Foods 

Animal Vegetable 

Pork 0.160 Carrot 0.036 

Milk 0.220 Turnip 0.058 

Beef 0.285 Cabbage 0.089 

Effffs 0.337 Potato 0.140 



'o& 



White cheese 0.374 Chestnuts 0.200 

Mutton 0.425 Barley 0.230 

Gruyere cheese 1.350 Haricot beans 0.924 

Per Cent of P2O5 in Water-free Substance 

Wheat flour 0.357 

Haricot flour 1.077 

Camembert cheese 1.102 

Brie cheese 1 .272 

Cabbage 1.625 

Lean beef .. •. 1.894 

Gruyere cheese 2.475 

Yolk of egg 2.843 

The phosphorus contained in foods is, for the most part, present in an 
organic form of combination, sometimes of a very complex sort. It is also 
present in inorganic form as phosphates of the alkalies or alkaline earths, 
in the form of organic derivatives of phosphoric acid and phosphates, etc., 
and in the form of phosphorized proteins, as nucleo-albumins, etc. The 
organic forms are more valuable, since they contribute to the growth and 
repair of tissues. Examples of these are the chemical substances nuclein, 
lecithin, glycerophosphoric acid, and phosphocarnic acid, all of which are 
probably valuable dietetic sources of the element. 



272 MINEKAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

The following table from Hoobler gives the percentage of phosphorus 
contained in the following foods : 

Phosphorus-containing Foods with Content Estimated as PgOg 

Fruits, 15 to 12 per cent. — Pears, apples, citron, cherries, plums, apricots, oranges, 
figs. 

Berries, 20 to 13 per cent. — Gooseberries, currants, huckleberries, strawberries. 

Nuts, 43 to 18 per cent. — Almonds, cocoanuts, chestnuts. 

Cereals, 54 to 17 per cent. — Rice flour, rice, wheat flour, buckwheat flour, oat- 
meal, oatmeal flour, barley meal, barley flour, rye flour, cornmeal, cornmeal 
flour, rolled oats, pearl barley, macaroni, brown bread, white bread. 

Vegetables, 41 to 10 per cent. — Black radishes, artichokes, beans, peas, lentils, 
pumpkins, kohlrabi, cauliflower, asparagus, potato, cabbage, Savoy cabbage, 
mushrooms, onions, rhubarb, cucumbers, turnips, celery, carrots, sugar 
beets, radishes, spinach. 

Milk, eggs, cheese, 65 to 26 per cent. — Egg yolk, eggs, cheese, milk. 

Meats and fish, 48 to 20 per cent. — Veal, pickerel, pork, beef, oysters, salmon. 

Sulphur. — Sulphur is present in the food almost entirely in a state 
of organic combination, chiefly in proteins. The amount present in dif- 
ferent proteins varies considerably as shown in the following tabular 
analysis of dry proteins (11) : 

Per cent Sulphur 

In dried egg white 1.80 per cent 

In syntonin 1.80 per cent 

In albumin of wheat 1.55 per cent 

In albumin of peas 0.40 per cent 

In gluten O.YO per cent 

Four-fifths of the sulphur taken into the body is oxidized and excreted 
in the urine, either as sulphates or phenol sulphates; the remainder en- 
ters into compounds of more complex composition. About one gram of 
sulphur is excreted daily by a healthy adult. 

Physiologists can tell us nothing of the advantages or otherwise of an 
increase or diminution of sulphur in the food. The table below from 
Hoobler contains the percentages of sulphur in the following list of food- 
stuffs: 

Sulphur-containing Foods with Content Estimated as SO, 
Fruits, 6 per cent.— Apples, pears. 
Berries, 6 per cent. — Gooseberries. 

Cereals, 14 to 13 per cent.— White bread, brown bread. 
Vegetables, 30 to 5 per cent.— Black radishes, mushrooms, cauliflower, turnips, 

kohlrabi, cabbage, spinach, carrots, cucumbers, potatoes, asparagus, onions, 

celery, endive, artichokes. 



MINERAL CONTExXT IN FOODS 273 

Chlorin is taken into the system almost entirely in the form of sodium 
chlorid or common salt. Except an a source of hydrochloric acid, but lit- 
tle is known of its uses in the body. The behavior of the chlorids in some 
acute fevers would suggest that they may perform some special rule in 
metabolism. The following table from Hoobler gives the chlorin per- 
centage in the list of foods enumerated below : 

Chlorin-containing Foods with Content Estimated as CI 

Fruits, 10 per cent. — Pineapples. 

Nuts, 14 per cent. — Cocoanuts. 

Cereals, 30 to 5 per cent. — White bread, brown bread, macaroni, oatmeal. 

Vegetables, 16 to 5 per cent. — Celery, potatoes, cucumbers, radishes, Savoy cab- 
bage, lettuce, asparagus, tomatoes, cabbage, spinach, beets, rhubarb, turnips, 
kohlrabi, carrots. 

Milk, eggs, clieese, 28 to 7 per cent. — Egg whites, milk, eggs, cheese. 

Meats and fish, 21 to 5 per cent. — Salmon, oysters, pickerel. 

lodin. — lodin is present in small quantities in fish. In the human 
being it is found in the thyroid gland. The significance of its presence 
in food is quite obscure, though it may prove to be of utility to the dietary. 
Gautier gives the following tables showing the iodin content of various 

foods : 

Iodin per Kilogram op Fresh Material 

Green beans 0.32 Green peas 0.80 

Bananas 0.31 Tomatoes 0.23 

Asparagus 0.24 Grapes 0.02-00 

Garlic 0.21 Artichokes 0.017 

White cabbage 0.21 Pears 0.017 

Mushrooms 0.172 White dried beans 0.014 

Strawberries 0.17 Lettuce 0.012 

Rice 0.17 Potatoes 0.01 

Carrots 0.134 Oatmeal 0.009 

Sorrel 0.12 Wheat flour 0.007 

Leeks '. 0.12 Bread 0.000 

Iodin per Kilogram in Some Animal Foods 

Gray shrimp 5.91 Breme 1.25 

Crabs 182 Fresh cod 1.32 

Lobster 1-78 Archovies 0.95 

Smoked herring 1.57 Tunny, fresh 0.88 

Fresh salmon 1.40 Eel 0.80 

Roach 1.38 Whiting 0.31 

Oysters 1.32 Trout 0.08 



274 mi:n^ekal content of the body and foods 

Fluorin and Silica. — Fluorin and silica are present in the body in 
small quantities, chiefly in the teeth, and bones. Vegetable foods, and 
especially the cereals, are their most abundant source in the diet. 

Bromin. — Bromin is present in the nuclear proteins, and is excreted 
in the sweat. Foods containing iodin also have this element in combina- 
tion. Fluorin is present in drinking water. 

Oxalic Acid. — While not strictly speaking a mineral substance, oxalic 
acid may be conveniently considered here, for it is usually present in the 
diet in the form of oxalate of lime. Esbach gives the following table of 
the amount of oxalic acid in different articles of food ; 

Per 1,000 

Black tea infused 5 minutes 2.060 

Cocoa-powder 3.520 to 4.500 

Pepper 3.250 

Coffee 0.127 

Parsley 0.006 

Haricots 0.312 

Common beans 0.158 

Potatoes 0.046 

Good bread 0.047 

Crust 0.130 

Crumb 0.120 

Buckwheat flour 0.171 

Barley meal 0.039 

Maize flour 0.033 

Sorrel 2.740 to 3.630 

Spinach 1.910 to 3.270 

Ehubarb 2.466 

Brussels sprouts 0.020 

Cauliflower 0.003 

Beetroot 0.390 

French beans 0.060 to 0.212 

Salsifies 0.070 

Tomatoes 0.002 to 0.052 

Carrots 0.027 

Chicory 0.103 

Endive 0.017 

Lettuce 0.016 

Dried figs 0.270 



MINERAL CONTENT IN FOODS 275 

Per 1,000 

Currants 0.130 

Prunes 0.120 

Gooseberries 0.070 

Plums 0.070 

Raspberries 0.062 

Oranges 0.030 

Lemons 0.030 

Cherries 0.025 

Strawberries 0.012 

It will be observed from study of this table that oxalic acid occurs in 
relatively large amounts in tea, coffee, spinach, rhubarb, sorrel and pep- 
per. Tomatoes are sometimes claimed to be rich in it, but it would appear 
that this is an error, since the sour taste is due to citric acid. A diet of 
animal foods diminishes oxalic acid, owing to its low content in ani- 
mal foods. There seems to be little doubt but that the consumption of 
foods rich in oxalic acid may be the cause of oxalate calculi. 

Manganese. — Manganese is found in the body in minute quantities, 
and small amounts are detected in some food materials. The ash of le- 
gumes, asparagus, cauliflower, lettuce, grapes and various grains contain 
varying amounts of this element. 

Generally speaking, fruits and nuts contain the least quantity of salts, 
meats rank next, after them vegetables, and pulses and cereals contain 
most of alL 

REFERENCES 

1. FoRSTER. Physiology. 

2. Hammarsten. Physiological Chemistry, page 634. 

3. OsBORN and Mendel. J. Biol. Chem., 1912, xiii, 233. 

4. Howell, W. H. Text-book of Physiology, 6th ed., page 921. 

5. Albu and Newberg. Physiologie und Pathologic des Mineral- 

stoffwechsels, 1906. 

6. BuNGE. Physiological and Pathological Chemistry, pages 87-88. 

7. Howell, W. H. Text-book of Physiology, 6th ed., page 922. 

8. BuNGE. PhysiologiederMenschen, 1901, ii, 103. 

9. HooBLER. Arch. Pediat, March, 1912. 

10. TiBBLES. Foods, Origin and Manufactura 

11, RiCHET. Dictionary of Physiology. 



276 MINEKAL CONTENT OF THE BODY AND FOODS 

BIBLIOGKAPHY 

Abderhalden. Physiological Chemistry, chap. 16. 

Albu and Newberg. Physiologic und Pathologic dcs Mineralstoffwech- 
sels, 1906. 

BuNGE. Physiological and Pathological Chemistry, chaps. 7 and 8. 

Forbes. The Mineral Elements in Animal Nutrition, 1909, Bull. 201, 
Ohio Experiment Station. 

. Specific Effects of Eations on the Development of Swine, 

1910, Bull. 213, Ohio Experiment Station. 

. The Balance between Inorganic Acids and Bases in Animal 

Nutrition, 1909, Bull. 207, Ohio Experiment Station. 

Hart, McCollum and Fuller. The Bole of Inorganic Phosphorus in 
the Nutrition of Animals, 1909, Research Bull. No. 1, Wiscon- 
sin Experiment Station. 

and Humphrey. The Role of the Ash Constituents 

of Wheat Bran in the Metabolism of Herbivora, 1909, Research 
Bull. No. 5, Wisconsin Experiment Station. 

Henderson. Das Gleichgewicht zwischen Basen und Sauren im thier- 
ischen Organismus, Ergebnisse der Physiologic, 1909, 8, 254- 
325. 

Jordan, Hart and Patten. Metabolism and Physiological Effects of 
Phosphorus Compounds of AVheat and Bran, Technical Bull. 
No. 1, New York State Experiment Station; also Am. J. 
Physiol., 1906, 16, 268. 

Osborne. Sulphur in Protein Bodies, J. Am. Chem. Soc, 24, 140. 

Sherman, Mettler and Sinclair. Calcium, Magnesium and Phospho- 
rus in Food and Nutrition, Bull. 227, Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions, U. S. Dept. Agric. 

and Sinclair. The Balance of Acid-forming and Base-form- 
ing Elements in Food, J. Biol. Chem., 1907, 3, 307. 



CHAPTER XII 

ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 
E. H. S. Bailey, Ph.D. 



Blessed art thou, land, when thy King is the son of Nobles, and thy Princes 
mt m due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness. — Ecclesiastes x, 16-17. 



Meats; Meat Extracts; Gelatin and Gelatin Foods; Animal Viscera as 
Food; Domestic and Wild Fowl; Fish and Shellfish; Milk and Milk 
Products ; Eggs. 



MEATS 

Importance of Meat. — Meat is one of the most important foods, and 
aifords, in general, more concentrated and readily available nourishment 
than vegetable substances, and is the chief source of our protein supply. 
Fats, carbohydrates, water and mineral salts are other constituents of 
various meats. This class of food is easily digested, either cooked or in 
the raw state, after thorough mastication. Meat mixes readily with all 
other foods and leaves but a small residue in the intestinal canal. 

COMPOSITION OF MEAT.— On close inspection, a piece of boiled meat 
will be found to be made up of bands of muscle fibers held together by 
connective tissue. These muscle fibers may be short, as in the breast of 
a chicken, or they may be much longer, as in the leg of a crab; the 
shorter they are, the more tender and easily digested the meat is. Meat 
should always be canned at right angles to the long axis of the fibers. It 
is then masticated with greater ease. The contents of the muscle fibers 
are more readily brought into contact with the grinding surface of the 
molars, the taste and flavor are increased and the digestive juices stimu- 
lated, facilitating the process of digestion. 

277 



278 ANIMAL A:N"D FISH FOODS 

Fat. — The walls of the muscle fibers consist of an albuminoid sub- 
stance, elastin, while the connective tissue which holds them together is 
composed chiefly of a material called "collagen," which yields gelatin on 
boiling. Imbedded in the connective tissue between the fibers is a va- 
riable amount of fat. It is almost entirely absent in most kinds of game 
and in the breast of chicken. On the other hand, in pork and fattened 
mutton, in swimming birds (such as the duck and goose, which require 
a large store of fat both to lighten the body as well as a source of animal 
heat), the amount of fat may be large. A large amount of fat tends to 
diminish the digestibility of meat; apparently the fat forms a kind of 
waterproof coating around the muscle fibers, hindering their rapid dis- 
integration in the gastric juice. 

Under ordinary conditions meat contains muscle tissue, connective 
tissue, blood vessels, nerves and lymphatics, together with a varying 
amount of fat. The greater the amount of fat there is in the meat, the 
less water and nitrogenous matter does it contain, and vice versa. 

Muscle Tissue. — As we have already learned, muscle tissue is made 
up of minute thread-like cells that lie side by side and are so small that 
the individual cells may be seen only by the microscope. In the living 
animals the contents of these muscle cells are soft and tender. After 
death a change takes place in the muscle substance, which causes it to 
become rigid. This hardening of the muscle is known as rigor mortis, 
or death stiffening. It is due to myosin, which has the property of clot- 
ting after death. Meat in this condition is tough. If tenderness is de- 
sired the meat should be immediately cooked after the animal is killed, 
before this condition of rigor mortis has had time to set in. If, how- 
ever, the animal is allowed to hang for a time, this rigor passes off. Its 
disappearance is due to a resolution of the myosin by the development of 
sarcolactic acid and acid phosphates in the tissues, as well as to a partial 
digestion of it by traces of pepsin, which all muscle fiber contains. This 
process must be regarded, however, as an early stage of putrefaction, and, 
as is well known, if meat is allowed to hang for some time it becomes 
high. 

Acids. — The acids which develop in meat after the disappearance 
of rigor mortis aid the gelatinization (which occurs in boiling) of the 
connective tissue, and also improve its flavor by changing the rather in- 
sipid taste, which characterizes very fresh meat, to one more palatable. 
Animals which have undergone very great muscular exercise immediately 
before killing develop a considerable quantity of these acids, hence the 
flesh of hunted animals is of a superior flavor. Another means of pro- 



MEATS 279 

ducing these effects artificially is by soaking the meat in vinegar and 
water for a short time. This improves the flavor of fresh meat, as well 
as its tenderness. It is on this same theory that the use of vinegar favors 
the digestibility of the hard muscles of the crab and lobster. 

Muscle Juice. — The contents of the microscopic muscle fibers con- 
sist of water, holding in solution, proteins, salts and substances known as 
vieat extractives^ the whole constituting muscle juice. The younger the 
animal the more water does its flesh contain, and likewise the lower its 
nutritive value. This is explained by the saying that '^calf meat is half 
meat." 

Mineral Substances. — We learned when studying mineral salts that 
the red coloring matter of the meat was due to the presence of hemo- 
globin, which varies greatly in different kinds of meat. Its greatest im- 
portance is that it contains iron. In the small blood vessels of animals 
which have bled to death, hemoglobin may be found much diminished in 
amount or altogether removed. 

The chief mineral substances found in the juice of meat are phos- 
phoric acid and potash. Meat is one of the principal sources of these 
valuable building materials in the diet. Wlien these are not supplied in 
sufficient amount, the muscles become flabby and poorly developed. 

Accessory Substances — Vitamines. — Besides protein, fat and min- 
eral substances, fresh meat contains certain accessory substances which 
are of importance to the animal organism. Cured and dried meats are 
deficient in these substances. Casimir Funk described them first and 
gave them the name vitamines. The leading investigators are of the 
opinion that meat vitamines are contained in the plasma or muscle juice, 
and that they form the preventative and curative agents in raw meat and 
raw meat juice. Xo doubt the efficacy of raw meat juice as a curative 
agent in tuberculosis lies in the vitamines of the muscle plasma. This 
curative property is not due to proteins, for it has been shown that mus- 
cle plasma contains very little nitrogen. Whatever the organic princi- 
ple may be, it is destroyed by prolonged cooking, for neither cooked meat 
nor cooked meat juice possesses the therapeutical effects of raw meat juice. 
The destruction of vitamines by heat depends on the height of the tem- 
perature to which the meat is subjected. It is generally believed that a 
temperature of 120° C. destroys vitamines, but at this temperature the 
interior of a cut of meat weighing 5 or 6 pounds never reaches more 
than 60° C. during ordinary cooking. The vitamines contained in the 
meat juice of fresh meat are a protection ag^iiist scurvy and beri-beri. 



280 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

Grijns(l) was an early worker in this field, and his conclusions are that 
the vitamines of meat are destroyed when heated to 120° C. It was due 
to his research that the deficiency theory of beri-beri was adopted. He 
believes that the disease breaks out when this substance, necessary for the 
metabolism of the nervous system, is lacking in the food. Grijns avers the 
condition frequently alluded to as nitrogen starvation may exist even when 
the vitamines are abundant, and has no relation whatever to the condi- 
tion that Funk refers to as deficiency diseases. Yet individuals in a 
condition of nitrogen starvation are likely to suffer from deficiency of 
vitamines and therefore furnish a large percentage of cases of scurvy, 
beri-beri and pellagra. They are cured by any food containing vitamines. 
Their nitrogen defect is not relieved unless proteins are also adminis- 
tered. It is believed that a diet defective in vitamines weakens our ac- 
quired immunity to tuberculosis and that the rich diet prescribed of late 
years cures by reason of the excess of vitamines, rather than solely by 
the nitrogen administered. 

Extractives. — The principal substances contained in a solution of 
meat juice are the extractives. They are so called because they may be 
extracted from meat by boiling it in water. We shall have much to learn 
about these extractives later on, but it may be stated here that their exact 
chemical nature is not definitely known, neither have they any nutritive 
value. They are of importance only because they give the agreeable and 
characteristic taste to meat. Meat from which these extractives have been 
removed by prolonged boiling becomes flavorless and insipid. 

The flesh of adult animals is richer in extractives, has a richer flavor 
than the flesh of those which are immature. This explains why we eat 
lamb with mint sauce and add spices to veal. The influence of feeding 
and pasturage is well illustrated by all forms of game. The flesh of 
wild rabbits, which eat aromatic herbs, for instance, has a much finer 
flavor than that of rabbits fed in captivity. For this same reason a por- 
tion of wild turkey or wild duck is admitted to be a more tasty morsel than 
the flesh of birds reared in a farmyard. Everyone knows the fishy taste 
of sea birds, and that mutton raised in the hills is superior to its turnip 
fed substitutes. 

Chemical Composition of Meat. — The chemical composition of 
meat varies somewhat with the particular cut and the degree to which it 
has been fattened. The ordinary butcher's meat does not consist entirely 
of edible matter. In an average piece of meat the waste may be safely 
reckoned at fifteen per cent of the whole and the proportions of the con- 
stituents of the edible part are about as follows (Konig) : 



MEATS 281 

Water 74 to 76 per cent 

Muscle fibers II to 19 " 

Connective tissue 2 to 5 " 

Fat 0.5 to 3 " 

Ash 8 to 1.8 " 

Extractives » 0.5 " 

Other analyses represent the proportions of the chemical substances 
present, thus: 

100 Parts of Lean Beef without Visible 100 Parts of Dry Substance 

Fat (Voit) (Rubner) 

Protein 19.27 Syntonin, myosin, and gelatin. . . . 68.9 

Gelatin 1.73 Hemoglobin and serum albumin. . 9.57 

Fat 0.90 Muscle albumin 3.16 

Extractives 1.89 Extractives 13.68 

Ash 1.30 Ash 4.69 

Water 74.91 

The effects of fattening are shown in the following table, in which 
the composition of lean, medium and very fat beef is stated in round 
numbers : 

Nitrogeneous 
Water Matter 

Lean 76.5 21 

Medium 73 20.5 

Very fat 53 17 

I^ote the high percentage of water in meat as compared with the other 
constituents, the weight of the water contained is three times that of 
the nutritive parts. In other words, each pound of meat consists of three- 
quarters pound of water and one-quarter pound of nutritive material. 
The meat from young animals contains the highest percentage of water. 
Another interesting point shown by the above table is the relation be- 
tween water and fat. These constituents vary in inverse ratio, the more 
fat there is, the less water is present. To sum up: fat replaces water 
in muscular tissue, the protein elements being unaffected. Therefore, 
by the fattening process the nutritive value of the meat is absolutely 
increased. The above analyses refer especially to beef; the composition 



Fat 


Ash 


1.5 


1 


5.5 


1 


29 


1 



1 "Nitrogenous matter" is the figure obtained by multiplying the amount of 
nitrogen in 100 parts by 6.25; i.e., it is assumed that it is all protein. In reality, 
15 per cent of the total nitrogen is present in the form of extractives, the amount of 
which can be calculated by multiplying their nitrogen by 3.12. 



282 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



of the other commoner sorts of meat and some varieties of game may be 
graphically represented as follows : -^ 

ANALYSIS OF MEATS 



Variety of Meats 


Water 


Protein and 
Gelatin 


Fat 


Mineral 
Matter 


Beef (medium fat) 

Mutton Hean) 


77.5 

75 

65.2 

46 

71 

63 

60.9 

44.4 

22.3 

74 

66.8 

75.7 

70.0 

70.8 

37.0 

75.1 


19 
18 
14.5 
10.2 
17 
18.5 
12.3 
9.7 
8.1 
22.3 
21.4 
19.7 
23.3 
22 
14.9 
22 


1.4 

' 5.7 

19.5 

43.2 

11 

16.5 

26.2 

45.5 

65.2 

1.1 

9.7 

1.9 

3.1 

3 

45.6 

1.0 


1.4 
1.3 


Mutton (medium fat) 

Mutton (^verv fat) 


0.8 
0.6 


Veal 


1 


Lamb (medium fat) 

Pork (medium fat) 

Pork fverv fat) 


1.1 
0.6 
0.4 


Bacon 


4.4 


Hare 


1.1 


Rabbit (fat) .* 


1.1 


Venison 


1.1 


Fowl 


1.0 


Wild duck 


1.0 


Goose 


0.3 


Pigeon 


1.0 







COMPARATIVE COST OF NUTRIENTS AND ENERGY IN THE 
MEATS AND FISH 



Food 



Price 
per pound 



Cost of 
1 pound 
protein 



Cost of 
1,000 units 
of energy 



Energy 
units for 
10 cents 



Beefsteak 

Beef, roast 

Beef, dried 

Lamb, leg of. . . 

Lamb chop 

Pork chop 

Smoked ham. . . 

Fowl 

Cod, fresh 

Cod, salt 

Halibut steak . . 
Salmon, canned 
Oysters 



Cents 
20 
16 
25 
20 
22 
20 
22 
20 
10 
7 
18 
12 
18 



Dollars 

1.28 

.87 

.98 

1.37 

1.72 

1.60 

1.60 

1.65 

.93 

.45 

1.22 

.57 

3.10 



Cents 
20 
18 
32 
22 
17 
15 
13 
16 
46 
22 
38 
13 
80 



Calories^ 

515 

560 

315 

445 

890 
1,035 

735 

820 

220 

465 

265 

760 

125 



VARIETIES OF ANIMAL FLESH — Beef. — The flesh from fat young 
animals is tender, while the meat from old and lean animals is tough. 



1 Most of the analyses from which the diagram is constructed are by Honig and 
Stutzer. The analysis of lamb is from Atwater, that of bacon from Church. 
' See Chapter XIX. 



MEATS 283 

This is explained by the fact that in the older animal the connective 
tissue becomes progressively more and more dense. The older the ani- 
mal, the more work its muscles have had to perform and therefore the 
thicker and denser the walls of its muscle fibers. 

For this reason old work oxen do not make tender beef nor do old 
milch cows, for both age and muscular work have a bearing on the ten- 
derness of beef. Therefore the choicest animals for food are naturally 
young ones. An ox from three to five years old, which has been kept 
plump and fat on good pasturage, supplies the choicest beef, bright red 
in color and rich in hemoglobin. It is a well-known fact that the flesh 
of animals, which have roamed the field and forest in search of food, is 
of finer flavor than that of stall-fed animals or those confined to limited 
enclosed areas. 

The quality of beef is influenced by various factors, such as age, sex, 
food and breeding. The most agreeable to the taste is heifer beef. Bull 
beef, which is of a very dark red color, is usually dry and tough, requir- 
ing a long time for cooking. Although not very agreeable to the palate, 
it is preferable to cow beef for making beef tea. Cow beef is of a 
lighter shade. It is not specially agreeable. As to breeding, the small 
breeds yield meat far sweeter than that of large breeds. The influence 
of age varies with the breed, the small breed when about three years old 
yielding excellent meat, while the flesh of the larger breeds is more 
palatable when these animals are mature, i.e., when four or ^ve years 
old. Care must be taken not to slaughter cows that are too young. Veal 
is at its best when the calf is about two and one-half months of age. 
When too young, the meat does not compare with beef in wholesomeness. 
Even at its prime, veal requires a long period for digestion. It is not 
a very nutritious food, for, when taken from very young animals whose 
muscular fiber has not had time for development, the meat is inclined 
to flabbiness, nor does it contain the juices so essential to flavor and 
nutrition (2). The butchering of calves less than two and one-half to 
three months of age is prohibited by law in certain states. The former 
prejudice against the use of very young veal is lessening, due to recent 
research which seems to indicate that the flesh may be just as easily 
digested as that of more mature calves or even beef. It is by no means a 
suitable food for the sick or invalid, as it is hard to digest and often 
causes diarrhea, with symptoms which indicate the absorption of albu- 
minoses or proteoses into the system. 

Mutton. — Mutton is the flesh of the sheep. The domestic sheep, of 
which there are several varieties, is a grazing and cud-chewing animal. 



284 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

Sheep are useful animals to man. Clothing is made from the wool, and 
the flesh is an agreeable article of diet, perhaps more often eaten than 
any other meat. It is a first favorite on account of its flavor, digestibility 
and wholesomeness. 

Sheep are best for food at the age of two to three years. The flesh 
of the wether (castrated male) is in perfection at three to four years. 
It is by far sweeter and more digestible than ewe mutton, which is at its 
best at not more than two years old. 

There are many varieties of sheep. The difference in the quality 
of the flesh as food, shown by its flavor and tenderness, depends largely 
upon the variety. Equally important are the pastures and breeding 
grounds. The muscle fiber of mutton is finer than that of beef and car- 
ries more fat. Mutton fat contains a larger proportion of glycerids and 
of stearic acid, which make it more compact but no less digestible than 
the fat of beef. 

Lamb. — Lamb is the flesh of a sheep killed at twelve to fourteen weeks 
of age. The tissues of young animals contain a larger amount of moisture 
and are more apt to decompose than those of more mature animals which 
are closer grained and drier. The freshness of lamb may be determined 
by brightness of the eye and dilatation of the pupil, by muscular rigidity 
and by firmness of the kidneys. These signs indicate wholesomeness, 
freshness and death at the hands of the butcher. 

Goat. — Goat meat as a food is not used extensively in the United 
States, but we venture the opinion that a great deal of what is sold on 
the New York markets as "spring lamb" is nothing more nor less than 
Canadian goat. The goat is about the size of the sheep and subsists on 
the scanty and coarser pasturage of hilly or mountainous regions. It is 
valuable for its milk, its skins and its flesh, which is used as food by those 
who live in mountainous regions. The flesh, with the exception of the 
Angora goat, is not as palatable as that of the sheep. 

Venison. — Venison is the flesh of the deer, which are ruminant ani- 
mals, existing in many parts of the world. The flesh is dark in color, 
wholesome and delicious. A barbecued saddle of venison is the most 
savory of meats. Unless obtained from a young animal, when it is ten- 
der and highly flavored, venison is apt to be difficult of digestion. It 
should be avoided by dyspeptics. 

The process of barbecuing or roasting of meats was worked out and 
perfected in the days when pains were taken not to spoil good meat with 
poor cooking. In those days a saddle of venison, a haunch of mutton or 
a stuffed turkey were not baked to insipidity in an oven meant for other 



MEATS 285 

purposes, but they were carefully turned about on an iron spit over a 
bed of red hot coals. The rich aroma was preserved by constant basting. 

Pork. — Pork is the flesh of the ho^. It is eaten fresh, salted, smoked, 
or cured as bacon, ham and sausage. The fat of pork is lard, a soft neu- 
tral, white, fatty substance, which contains olein^ stearin and palmitin. 
Hog fat or lard is the most important representative of the hydrocarbons 
in our foodstuffs. 

The young pig roasted is a dainty dish and highly prized by epicures. 
The animal should not be more than five or six weeks old. There is no 
meaty flavor better than that of the crisp, tawny, well-watched and not 
over-roasted crackling. Pork is the most indigestible of all meats, owing 
to the large percentage of fats that it contains. This fat consists chiefly 
of the glycerids of palmitic and oleic acids and may be present in the 
proportion of 37 per cent or more. Although many believe that pork is 
not as desirable as some other meats, it is very extensively used the world 
over. When hogs are raised under sanitary conditions upon good whole- 
some food, there is less objection to the use of the meat than when they 
are fattened in filthy surroundings and fed on brewers' slops, swill or other 
refuse. The best grade of pork with the choicest flavor is from young 
hogs about one year old that fatten upon the mast from forest trees and 
are then confined and fed on grain for six weeks. Hogs fattened in this 
way have firm flesh of a decided gamy flavor. 

Ham and Bacon. — Ham and bacon are more easily digested than 
fresh pork. Bacon is used largely as an army ration. Broiled crisp, 
thin slices of bacon are easily digested. The fat of bacon seems to be 
of a granular form, which is not difficult to digest and it can often be 
eaten with impunity by persons to whom other forms of fat are intol- 
erable. For this reason bacon is an invaluable aid in feeding delicate 
children and diabetic or phthisical patients in whose diet the free use of 
fat is indicated. 

Ham contains in 100 parts 29 per cent of albuminates, 33 per cent 
of fat and a salt content of between 8 and 11 per cent. In Germany ham 
is much prescribed in invalid dietaries, but in England and America it is 
seldom so prescribed. Bauer, in Dietary of the Sick, says, "The flesh of 
the hog seems to be better adapted for smoking than that of other ani- 
mals and long experience compels us to recognize smoked ham as one of 
the most wholesome forms of meat. Wliether boiled or eaten raw it 
seems, as a rule, to be more easily digested by weak organs than almost 
any other." 

Ham is easy of digestion when thoroughly boiled, cut in thin slices 



286 AJSriMAL AND FISH FOODS 

and served cold. For invalids it should never be fried. The best hams 
offered for sale in this country are from small animals, the sugar-cured 
hams weighing from 10 to 12 pounds being preferable. The finest fla- 
vored hams offered on the markets in the United States are cured in 
Virginia and North Carolina. They are famous and are known as the 
"Smithfield" hams. 

Horseflesh. — ^Horseflesh is rarely used for food in the United 
States and not at all in England. In France, Germany and some other 
European countries it is used more or less extensively. 

Hare and Eabbit. — The meat of these two animals is quite similar ; 
botli live entirely upon vegetable matter. The flesh of the former is dark 
and dry in comparison with the latter, which is in some respects superior, 
being more savory and of higher flavor. The rabbit occurs both wild 
and domesticated. 

Raccoon. — The raccoon is a small carnivorous animal about the size 
of a large house cat. In the late summer and early fall this animal shows 
a special fondness for ripening corn ; at this season, also, frogs, crayfish 
and wild oysters form a part of the raccoon's food, imparting to the flesh 
a peculiar gamy flavor. The hunting of raccoons, usually done with 
dogs, is one of the favorite southern sports. The flesh, dark and juicy, 
is highly prized as a game food by the southern negro. 

Opossum. — The opossum belongs to the marsupial family of mam- 
malia. It is insectivorous, carnivorous and herbivorous. The flesh of 
the opossum is a dainty dish, highly prized by epicures. The animal, 
after being caught, should be confined and fattened on wholesome food for 
from four to six weeks, then slaughtered like a pig, dressed and roasted 
whole. Its flesh is not as dark as pork; contains considerable fat and is 
very tasty and juicy. 

GENERAL SUMMARY 

It IS generally conceded that the flesh of animals which roam in search 
of food is of finer flavor and more toothsome than the flesh of domestic 
animals which are confined. Mutton is the most tender of butchers- 
meats. Beef, of firmer texture, is somewhat tougher and not so readily 
digested. Pork is the most difficult of all to digest, due to the saturation 
of its fibers with fat and frequently to fatty degeneration when the hog 
is overfed. Chicken, pheasant, rabbit, etc., are the most easily digested, 
largely due to the absence of fat from their tissue. 

The flesh of mature animals contains more meat or protein than that 
of the young, the male more than the female and the well fed more than' 



MEAT EXTRACTS 287 

the poorly fed animals. Castration greatly improves the flavor of the 
meat of the male and the flesh is also more tender. Every day the testes 
are allowed to remain in an animal intended for food injures the quality, 
delicacy and flavor of the flesh of a male animal. Even the flesh of the 
female is improved hy spaying. The flesh of an animal which is not cas- 
trated or spayed until after puberty retains a certain coarseness and 
strong flavor. A notable example of the efl'ects of castration in birds is 
seen in caponized fowls, the flesh of which is tender and juicy. 

MEAT EXTRACTS 

Beef Extract. — There are numerous meat preparations, both liquid and 
solid, offered for sale, the idea being to furnish a concentrated and easily 
digested food." Baron von Liebig was the pioneer in making beef ex- 
tract. He chopped up fresh beef very fine and heated it under pressure 
with a little water. The extract was filtered and evaporated in vacuum. 
The product was a golden brown liquid with a strong, agreeable meaty 
odor. He calculated 34 pounds of good beef would yield one pound of 
extract, and this would make 70 pints of beef tea, each pint representing 
the strength of 1/4 pound of beef extract. Beef extracts are, therefore, 
really concentrated bouillons that are to be diluted before being taken. 
The table on page 288, taken from Chittenden, gives the percentage 
composition of a few beef products. 

It must be admitted that we have only meager information as to the 
chemical properties of extractives of meat. Most of them are basic sub- 
stances, a few are amids. Creatin, xanthin, carmin and the peculiar and 
interesting substance, carnic acid, which is very similar to "antipeptone," 
are a few of the better known component parts. 

NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MEAT EXTRACTS.— These substances are some- 
what related to protein, but under no conditions are they of any use as 
tissue builders. Liebig himself once said, ^^Meat extract cannot make us 
strong, but it makes us aware of our strength." If meat extracts are 
taken dissolved in hot water and the solution slowly sipped, they produce 
a stimulating effect on the circulation. There is no proof that the extrac- 
tives of meat act as brain stimulants in the same way as tea and coffee 
do, but there is positive evidence that they remove the apparent effects 
of muscular fatigue. This, perhaps, explains the beneficial action often 
noticed after administering beef extracts. 

Hutchison (3), in speaking of the meat extractives, says: 

The recent experiments of Pavlov have shown that they are the most powerful 
exciters of gastric secretion that we possess. They are thus eminently calculated 



288 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



to rouse appetite, and aid digestion of any food with which they may be taketV 
This is indeed their true role, both in health and disease. They are flavoring 
agents, and their proper place is in the kitchen and not at the bedside. 

The meat from which the extractives have been removed is tasteless 
and difficult to digest. The small quantity of nutrient material in beef 
extract may be of value in some cases, where it is of great importance to 
have a little nutriment, even if the amount is very small, which can be 
readily absorbed. 

CONSTITUENTS OF MEAT EXTRACTS.— In the preceding pages direc- 
tions were outlined for making beef extracts, and their basic substances, 
creatin and creatinin, described. Besides these there is found leucin, 
tyrosin, xanthin, hypoxanthin and adenin. Kutscher(4) has recently 
isolated various other bodies from meat, i.e., ignotin, novain, carnitin, 
oblitin, vitiatin, etc. Besides the above constituents of meat and meat 
extracts, the researches of Casimir Funk and Grijns have demonstrated 
the presence of certain accessory bodies which they call vitamines, else- 
where fully dealt with. 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF BEEF PRODUCTS (ANALYZED 1891) 



Constituents 






« 0) 
03 « 

am 



<w 



>^ 



09 



a <u 

II 



?, 6 Loi 

•2et3g 



2*^ 

2.^ 



Water (at 110° C.) 

Solid matter (at 110° C.) . . 

Soluble in water 

Insoluble in Water 

Inorganic constituents 

Phosphoric acid (PjOs) .... 

Fat, ether extractives 

Soluble in 80% alcohol .... 

Total nitrogen 

Nitrogen of insoluble mat- 
ter 

Insoluble protein matter. . . 

Soluble albumin (coagula- 
tive by heat) 

Soluble albumoses 

Peptone 

Total protein matter avail- 
able as nutriment 

Nutritive value as com^ 
pared with fresh lean beef 
(lean beef, 100) 



20.06 
79.94 
79.94 



14.03 

85.97 
85.97 



60.31 
36.69 
36.69 



57.88 
42.12 
42.12 



81.09 
18.91 
18.91 



83.09 
16.01 
16.01 



24.(^4 
9.13 
0.91 

55.72 
9.52 

9.52 
9.52 

0.06 



28.29 
7.28 
1.27 

67.92 

8.80 

8.80 
8.80 

0.68 



11.30 
4.00 
0.78 

29.15 
2.68 

2.68 
2.68 

0.55 



17.52 
3.94 
0.85 

35.08 
3.25 

3.25 
3.25 

0.47 



1.02 
0.03 
1.49 
1.49 
2.43 

2.43 
2.43 

13.98 



0.66 
0.09 
0.27 
0.27 
2.29 

2.29 
2.29 

14.29 



39.58 

60.42 

50.40 

10.02 

13.52 

3.91 

1.29 

34.10 

7.38 

1.46 
9.12 



0.06 



0.30 



0.68 
3.15 



0.55 
2.80 



0.47 



2.40 



13.98 



72.40 



14.29 



74.00 



9.12 



6.80 

93.20 

48.12 

45.06 

5.08 

1.40 

2.95 

2.95 

4.42 

3.25 
20.30 



5.44 
1.87 

27.61 



6.68 
93.32 
31.26 
62.06 
4.23 
1.71 
13.60 
13.60 
12.36 

7.65 
47.81 



47.20 143.00 



11.09 
18.34 

77.24 



400.00 



MEAT EXTRACTS 289 

CANNED MEATS.— It has been shown that some canned foods can only 
be preserved by sterilization at a temperature of 248° F. for not less 
than 60 minutes. This degree of heat would certainly destroy vitamines. 
Perfectly fresh meat shows an acid reaction ; pickled meat, due to chemi- 
cals used in the process, shows an alkaline reaction. The Bacillus 
putrificus coll is present in the colon of animals and contaminates all 
meats. The spores of this bacillus are killed by exposure to a tempera- 
ture of 224° F. for 15 minutes; 230° F. for 10 minutes; 240° F. for 5 
minutes. In the process of canning meats, if these temperatures are not 
maintained, the meat in the interior of the can is not sterilized. This 
gives the bacilli an opportunity to develop and decompose proteins and 
other organic compounds. The sulphur generated by decomposed pro- 
teins forms a sulphid of iron which blackens the tin, while the generated 
gas may cause the end of the can to be "blown" or "swollen." 

BEEF JUICE. — Beef juice consists of the fluid substance contained in 
the muscle fibers. These products are prepared by subjecting the meat 
to strong pressure, and are subsequently concentrated by evaporation in 
vacuum. The use of heat is painstakingly avoided, as it would coagulate 
the soluble proteins contained in the juice. Reliable beef juice must be 
manufactured by the cold process, and have salt or another harmless pre- 
servative added to prevent putrefaction after manufacture. 

RAW BEEF JUICE.— Raw beef juice may be made at home with an 
ordinary lemon squeezer. If sufficient pressure is exerted the juice will 
exude as it would from an orange. Perhaps the best method is to chop 
the meat very fine, add cold water and let it stand in a cool place. The 
soluble proteins and other constituents are gradually dissolved out and 
are obtained by squeezing the pulp in muslin. 

The table on page 290, taken from Hutchison, shows the composition 
of r.nw beef juice obtained by different methods. 

Use of Raw Beef Juice. — Fresh beef juice is serviceable for feed- 
ing the sick in many severe cases of gastric disorders, in typhoid fever 
and in the diet of infants at the beginning of the second year. It is 
much to be preferred to any of the foregoing beef extracts and other 
preparations. 

BEEF TEA.— Beef tea can be readily prepared for domestic use. Al- 
low meat, finely chopped and with a little salt added, to stand in cold 
water for half an hour, then heat it for some time in a double boiler at a 
temperature always below 160° F. Pour off liquid and press the meat 
to remove as much of the remaining juice as possible. 

Preparation of Beef. — If it is desired to prepare a beef tea which 



290 ANIMAL Al^J) FISH EOODS 

COMPOSITION OF NATURAL RAW BEEF JUICE 



Method of Preparation 


Water 


Coagu- 

lable 
Protein 


Extract- 
ives 


(1) Meat from round slightly broiled and pressed (5) . . 

(2) Meat from neck slightly broiled and pressed (5) . . . 

(3) Chopped beef heated in corked bottle (5) 

(4) Lean steak shghtly broiled and juice expressed 

with lemon-squeezer (1 lb. yielded 2^ oz.) . . • • 

(5) 1 lb. beef and 8 oz. water stood on ice for six 

hours; then twisted in coarse muslin (yield) =- 
81^ oz. (6) 


88.1 
90.1 
92.1 

92.9 

94.9 
91.1 


6.97 
5.18 
2.19 

2.90 

3.0 
5.1 


3.97 
3.56 
2.09 

3.40 
1.90 


(6) 4 oz. minced steak soaked for an hour in 1 oz. 
water, then forcibly expressed. (7) 


3.1 







will contain real nutriment, Hutchison advises that one should proceed 
in the following way: 

Procure some good lean beef, trim off with a knife any gristle or fat adhering 
to it and then scrape the meat thoroughly with the back of the knife so as to 
tear it into shreds. In this way, all the fibers of the meat are removed from the 
connective tissue which holds them together. It is these fibers which contain the 
most nourishing part of the meat. Having placed the fragments of the meat in 
a jar, add water and mix thoroughly. How much water should be added is a 
matter of taste. Obviously, if a small quantity of water is taken, the beef tea 
will be stronger than if much is used. As a rule, one pint of cold water to one 
pound of beef is the proportion recommended. If the mixture is now set aside 
in the cold for some time, most of the soluble proteins of the meat will be dis- 
solved along with the extractives and salts. A little salt is sometimes added to 
the water under the belief that its solvent powers are thereby increased. It is 
doubtful, however, whether such is really the case. By the end of half an hour 
or so of standing in the cold, the preparation is practically a more or less dilute 
raw beef juice. 

The jar should now be tightly covered, placed in a saucepan of water and 
gradually heated. The temperature for at least the first hour should be kept 
below the coagulating point (167° F.). From time to time the mixture should 
be stirred with a fork and the lumps of meat squeezed against the sides of the 
jar. During this time any remaining soluble protein is dissolved out. At the 
end of the hour the tea must be cooked, i.e.^ its raw appearance and taste taken 
away by heating it to above the point at which the red coloring matter coagulates. 
The simplest plan is to bring it to a boil and then remove it from the fire imme- 
diately. Prolonged boiling must be avoided, as it tends to render the coagulated 
protein indigestible. The beef juice should then be poured from the residue of 
beef, not strained.^ When this has been done, the residue should be squeezed 

1 The nutritive value of the preparation can be immensely increased by grating 
down the residue of the meat into fine particles and adding these to the tea. This, 
however, is not always permissible. 



MEAT EXTRACTS 291 

very hard with the back of a spoon through a coarse strainer or sieve and the 
juice which comes out added to the tea. The latter may then be set aside to 
cool. When cold, it will be found to have settled into two layers: a lower layer 
composed of flocculcnt particles and nn upper layer of brown fluid. The fat on 
the top should be removed with a boated spoon. 

Attention must now be directed to the two layers in the beef tea. Tlie lower, 
flocculent one consists of the nutritive part of the preparation, namely, the pro- 
tein. It has been coagulated, by bringing the tea to the boiling point, but the 
coagulation has occurred in the form of very fine light particles. Had the tea 
been passed through a fine strainer or through muslin, as is sometimes recom- 
mended, these particles would have been kept back and the value of the tea pro- 
portionately lessened. The upper or fluid layer corresponds to what is the whole 
tea, wlien the latter is imperfectly prepared; in other words, it consists of a 
solution of the extractives and salts of the meat. 

Albuminoid Material in Beef Tea. — It must be admitted that the 
total quantity of albuminoid material which can be obtained in the man- 
ner above described is very small, but in febrile states it is good for the 
patient to ingest large quantities of water and there can be no objection 
to a part of the fluid being taken in the shape of beef tea. When pa- 
tients suffer from great thirst they soon become tired of swallowing, and 
it is then well to give nitrogenous food in some concentrated form. In 
wasting fevers, albuminoid and gelatinous fluids aid in sustaining 
strength and relieve exhaustion. For this purpose beef tea and beef 
essence are valuable. It may be improved by adding a crushed cracker, 
a little butter, salt, sago or chocolate. 

Prepared Beef Teas. — In earlier times nearly all beef tea was 
prepared by the housewife; now, however, numerous preparations are 
manufactured, some of which offer good substitutes for the domestic 
article. The following table from Hutchison gives the composition of a 
few of these prepared beef teas: 

Fibrous Strong Vril Albuminous 

Beef Tea Beef Tea Beef Tea 

(Brand's) (Mason's) (Bovril Co.) 

Water 83.21 89.02 84.00 

Extractives 4.52 2.47 4.17 

Proteins 11.40 6.86 10.17 

Mineral matter 0.86 1.65 1.66 

BEEF BOUILLON.— Beef bouillon is prepared by cutting meat into 
small bits, heating it slowly in water for some minutes and then sud- 
denly bringing it to the boiling point. The fluid so produced has a very- 
acceptable flavor and contains very little nutriment, other than the meat 



292 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



extractives and salts and some slight amount of gelatin. Bouillons in- 
crease the flow of saliva and can be rendered more nutritious by adding 
an egg. Bouillon cubes often contain from 50 to 72 per cent of com- 
mon salt. 

MEAT POWDERS.— Meat powders, such as Mosquera's beef meal, Soma- 
tose and "Beef meal," are tolerated by some stomachs and have the 
advantage of being less disagreeable than some home-made beef prepa- 
rations. Meat powders are manufactured from dried lean beef reduced 
to a powder. It is a highly concentrated food and an excellent product 
for those who go beyond the reach of fresh food, or who need to carry 
their sustenance in a small bulk. 

BEEF PEPTONES.— Beef peptones consist of digested or partly di- 
gested meat containing albuminose and peptones. These products are 
useful in cases of feeble stomach digestion and in other forms of illness. 
The following table from Tibbies shows that some of these preparations 
contain very little albuminose and peptone, but a considerable quantity 
of extractives of the same character as those in beef extracts. They have 
slight nutritive value: 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF PEPTONE PREPARATIONS 



*Namf. 


1 






Ml 


1 




is 
U 




1 


1 


Authority 


Antweiler's peptone. . . . 
Armour's peptone wine . 


6.92 
83.00 

89.68 
89.19 
84.60 

5.50 

6.75 
25.71 
78.45 
81.00 
20.95 
40.16 


12.85 


3.22 


14.54 
3.00 

2.41 

'7.00 

24.00 


60.15 
3.00 

4.75 
6.05 


1.74 
12.90 

2.27 
.15 





.54 


13.31 
1.10 

.89 
1.31 
1.40 

5.20 

5.50 
13.50 

2.54 

1.00 
18.24 

6.89 


Konig 
Hutchison 


Benger's peptonized beef 
jelly 


1.55 

1.48 


■2.'25 






Konig 


Brand's essence of beef . 






Stutzer 


Brand's beef peptone. . . 






Hutchison 


Carnrick's peptonoids 
(liquid) 




- 


6.93 
30.60 

'3.60 
32.57 
16.83 

'.'23 

2.66 
3.06 

4.87 


65.401 
.10 








Carnrick's peptonoids 
(solid) ; 


10.49 
8.06 


56.25 


13.41 


10.67 




Darby's fluid meat 


Konig 
Leyden 


Demayer's peptone 




12.15 


4.32 
15.002 

6.16 
15.96 
13.003 

1.87 

7.47 

2.62 

22.73 

Trace 






Fairchild's panopeptone 










Kemmerick's peptone . . 


9.72 
7.80 


7.86 

1.42 

48.00 

25.23 
'2.24 


14.56 
15.96 
29.00 
12.91 

5.43 

33.96 

1.81 

1.76 






Stutzer 


Koch's peptone 

Mosciuera's beef meal . . 





.79 


Konig 


Murdoch's fluid meat. . . 


83.61 

27.01 
14.24 
59.07 
87.50 


2.29 
8.76 
2.50' 






.56 

12.10 

5.30 

11.52 

.72 


Stutzer 


Savory and Moore's 
fluid beef 






Stutzer 


Somatose 






Tankard 


Valentine's meat juice. . 






Konig 
Tibbies 


Peptonized milk 


4.50 


4.00 



1 Chiefly .sugar. 

2 Mostly sugar. 
8 Mostly fat. 



GELATIN 



293 



GELATIN 

Preparation of Gelatin. — Gelatin, another moat product which of late 
years has come into common use, is prepared from l>one, tendons, horns, 
hoofs and hides by boiling under pressure. The potential energy of this 
product is calculated to be even more than that of some fats and albu- 
minates and yet in the body it is very inferior in the production of 
energy. It cannot, therefore, take the place of proteins for growth and 
repair and must be regarded solely as an albumm sparer. Neither can 
it replace albumin, the loss of which still goes on to some extent even 
when gelatin is eaten in large quantities. Home-made meat jellies may 
be made by taking any meat in which there is a large proportion of con- 
nective tissue. Put the meat in a pot with cold water, slowly bring to a 
boil and let it simmer for six or seven hours. This slow cooking of the 
connective tissue gelatinizes it. When cooled the gelatin may be sepa- 
rated from the fat, bones and lean meat. This home-made meat jelly 
possesses a pleasant flavor and is relished as an invalid diet. It is used 
in the body very much like the carbohydrates and fats, i.e., not as a tissue 
builder but as a fuel food. In this it acts differently from other fuel 
foods. The waste materials resulting from its oxidation are similar to 
the ^vaste materials from the oxidation of protein and must therefore be 
eliminated by the kidneys. Calfs-foot jelly, calfs-head jelly, hog's-head 
jelly, if not made too rich by added ingredients, are suitable for invalid 
diet, especially when flavored with sherry or Rhine wine. 

AKAL^/SIS AND FUEL VALUES OF GELATIN.— The following table from 
Bulletin No. 28, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, shows the analysis and fuel 
value of gelatin and jelly preparations: 

COMPOSITION OF GELATIN 





Nutrients, Per Cent 


Calories 




Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drates 


Ash 


per 
pound 


Gelatin 


13.6 
19.0 
77.6 


91.4 

89.3 

4.3 


0.1 
1.6 


17.4 


2.1 
2.0 
0.7 


1,705 

1,730 

405 


Isinglass 

Calfs-foot jeUy 



DIGESTIBILITY OF JELLIES.— Jellies are easily digested, complete 
peptonization occurring in one hour. Jelly stimulates the flow of gas- 
tric juice, but at the same time fixes a good deal of acid. It is for this 
reason a useful food in hyperacidity. 



294 



AOTMAL A:N'D fish FOODS 



PUREST FORM OF GELATIN.— The purest form of gelatin is isinglass, 
a substance obtained from the swim bladder of fish, especially the stur- 
geon. Chemically it is richer than ordinary gelatin, as is shown in the 
table above. 

CHIEF PECULIARITY OF GELATIN.— The chief pecularity of gelatin is 
that it dissolves in boiling water and settles into a jelly when cool. It is 
remarkable how weak a solution is capable of setting. Even when one 
per cent is present the solution sets. 

ANIMAL VISCERA AS FOOD 

Definition of Animal Viscera. — Animal viscera are certain organs other 
than flesh, that are sometimes used for food. Some of the viscera are quite 
digestible, although none is equal to or as nutritious as good meat. The 
sweetbreads and thyroid gland are delicacies which an invalid may have. 

COMPOSITION AND DESCRIPTION OF VISCERA.— The general composi- 
tion of these articles is shown in the following table compiled by Hutchi- 
son, from Atwater and from our own findings: 

COMPOSITION OF ANIMAL VISCERA 



Marrow 



Water 



Nitrog- 
enous 
matter 



Fat 



Carbohy- 
drates 



Ash 



Kidney (ox) 

Kidney (sheep) 

Liver (ox) 

Liver (sheep) 

Heart (ox) 

Heart (sheep) 

Lung (ox) 

Lung (sheep) 

Sweetbreads 

Blood 

Tripe 

Tongue (ox), fresh 

Tongue, smoked and salted 

Brain 

Liver (pig) 

Liver (chicken) 

Liver (goose) 

Liver (turkey) 

Tongue (sheep) 

Tongue (lamb) 

Spleen 

Marrow 



76.7 
78.7 
71.2 
61.2 
62.2 
69.5 
79.7 
75.9 
70.9 
80.8 
74.6 
63.8 
35.7 
80.6 
71.2 
69.3 
62.6 
69.6 
47.6 
67.4 
69.0 
8.56 



16.9 
16.8 
20.7 
23.1 
16.0 
17.0 
16.1 
20.2 
16.8 
18.1 
16.4 
17.1 
24.3 
8.8 
21.3 
22.4 
16.6 
22.9 
24.4 
13.9 
17.5 
1.87 



4.8 

3.2 

4.5 

9.0 

20.4 

12.6 

3.2 

2.8 

12.1 

0.2 

18.5 

18.1 

31.6 

9.3 

4.5 

4.2 

15.9 

5.2 

24.0 

17.8 

12.00 

88.04 



0.4 

1.5 
5.0 



1.4 
2.4 
3.7 
0.6 
0.6 
0.6 
0.6 
0.6 



1.20 

1.30 

1.60 

1.70 

1.00 

0.90 

1.00 

1.20 

1.60 

0.85 

0.50 

1.00 

8.50 

1.10 

1.4 

1.7 

1.2 

1.7 

4.8 

0.5 

1.5 

1.53 



Kidneys. — The kidneys are indigestible, chiefly by reason of the 
closeness of their texture. The nitrogenous extractives or meat bases are 



ANIMAL VISCERA AS FOOD 295 

urea, uric acid, creatin, purin bases. If cooked too long they become very 
hard and tough. 

LivEU. — Tlio liver is more often eaten perhaps than any other organ. 
Calf's liver is the best flavored and most tender variety. When liver is 
boiled in water a liquid is obtained containing nucleoproteins, which has 
been termed ferraiin. It also yields important nitrogenous extractives. 
Tender liver is more easily digested than kidney and is fairly nutritious. 
Liver should never be allowed to diabetics. The Scotch people under- 
stand the art of cooking liver. It is chopped very fine and mixed with 
oatmeal in making the national dish, ^^Haggis." 

Heart. — The heart is sometimes used as a food, but the meat is hard, 
tough and stringy, containing but little nutrition. 

Lungs. — Lungs of animals are not regularly used for food, though 
they are sometimes eaten in prisons. 

Sweetbreads. — Sweetbreads are either the thymus gland, sometimes 
called "neck" or "throat" sweetbread, or the pancreas, called the "belly 
sweetbread." These two sets of glands, both very similar in composi- 
tion, consist of a mass of cells held together by loose connective tissue; 
they are very rich in nuclein and nucleoprotein, but poor in albumin and 
globulin. They are rich in the salts of calcium and magnesium, potas- 
sium and phosphates. The sweetbread is a useful adjunct to the invalid 
dietary; it is very tender, has an agreeable flavor, is easily digested. 
Butchers often substitute the pancreas or "belly sweetbread" for the bet- 
ter th^^Tnus or neck sweetbread. The former may be recognized as being 
larger and coarser than the "neck sweetbread." The "belly sweetbread" 
is harder to digest. 

Blood. — Blood as a food is chiefly used in the form of black pud- 
dings, which contain rice and other ingredients sterilized by boiling. 
This compound is nutritious, and if eaten while fresh is quite free from 
danger. 

Tripe. — Tripe is the name of the stomach and intestines of the ox or 
hog after being properly cleaned and cooked by prolonged boiling. It 
consists largely of involuntary muscular fibers. The chief protein is 
globulin. It contains five times as much nucleoprotein. as striated mus- 
cular tissue. It also contains a small amount of glycogen, sarcolactic acid 
and mineral salts, in which sodium is in excess of the potassium. When 
properly prepared, while somewhat flavorless, it is easy to digest and must 
be regarded as a suitable food, especially in cases where purins are not 
wanted. 

Tongue. — The tongues of oxen and sheep are used as food, and a 



296 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

large industry is carried on by canning these organs, which sell as potted 
meat. Tongue consists of muscle fibers, which are fairly free from con- 
nective tissue. 

Braix. — The brain of animals is not very commonly eaten as a food. 
The substances which make up the complex composition of the brain tis- 
sue are varied and of great importance when the organ is regarded as a 
foodstuff. Hammarsten gives the following composition of the brain: 

COMPOSITION OF BRAIN 

Water 732.66 

Solids 267.34 

Proteins : Protagon 17.96 

Insoluble proteins and connective tissue 55.40 

Nuclein 2.47 

Neurokeratin 14.68 

Fats: Cholesterin 34.48 

Lecithin and other phosphorized bodies 136.92 

Extractives 

Mineral Substances 2.95 to 7.08 

In the class of proteins are found albumin, globulin, nucleo-albumin 
(phosphoprotein), nucleoprotein, and lecithalbumins, i.e., compounds of 
lecithin, albumin and phosphoprotein. Adrenin and guanin are derived 
from the nucleoproteins. Nuclein is found in large proportion in the 
gray matter, and neurokeratin in the neuroglia. Lecithin, either alone or 
combined with albumin or fatty acids, is found in both the gray and the 
white brain matter. Cholesterin, either alone or combined, is found in 
greater quantities in the white matter. The fatty acids exist in combi- 
nation with lecithin, cholesterin and protagon. 

It might be inferred that brain is a very proper food for persons 
whose occupation is chiefly intellectual, but observations do not confirm 
this supposition. 

DOMESTIC AND WILD FOWLS 

DOMESTIC FOWLS: ENUMERATION AND DESCRIPTION.— Poultry or barn- 
yard fowls include the following varieties of domestic birds : cJiichen, iur- 
Jcey, peacock, ducTc, goose, guinea fowl and pigeon. Generally speaking, 
the flesh of all birds is edible. Occasionally the flesh of some birds is 
rendered poisonous by foods which they eat; thus, the pheasants and 
partridges of America, especially the former, who eat the buds of the 
calmia latifolia, are considered poisonous in the winter and spring. 

Chicken. — Chicken is among the most digestible of all meats, 
whether cooked by broiling, by roasting or by boiling. The white meat 



I 



DOMESTIC AND WILD FOWLS 297 

is more easily digested than the dark. Even a typhoid convalescent may 
eat a small piece of chicken breast with impunity. A convalescent re- 
covering from any severe illness may be allowed chicken days before it 
would 1)0 safe to order beef or mutton, (chicken broth is almost univer- 
sally liked, and when served with rice and an egg forms a tempting and 
tasty invalid food. 

There are many varieties of the domesticated chicken. Some are 
prized for their tendency to grow large and fatten rapidly, others for 
their egg-producing qualities. In temperate regions the chickens lay best 
in the spring and early summer. "Spring*' chickens are ready for the 
table at two to four months old. Older chickens are killed all the year 
round. 

The flesh of the mature cock is too tough and too highly flavored to 
be palatable and is only fit for stewing. Young cockerels, however, are 
killed and sent to the market as spring chickens. The older cockerels are 
eaponized(8)^ ^.e., castrated, after which they grow to a good size and 
fatten readily. The white meat develops more than in ordinary fowls, 
while they retain the tenderness and sweetness of a spring chicken. The 
French have practiced spaijhig of hens to a small extent. Such birds they 
call poulards. While it is admitted that they fatten more readily than 
ordinary hens, it is questionable whether the flesh of the poulard is better 
or finer flavored than that of the ordinary hen. 

Turkey. — The turkey (9) is a native of North America. Raleigh's 
first emigrants to. the New World found this "grand" bird roaming the 
forests of eastern North Carolina. There are many varieties, but the 
two principal breeds are the American Bronze and the White Holland. 
Both are large species, sometimes reaching a weight of forty to forty- 
five pounds. The turkey is highly esteemed for the excellence of its 
flesh and its large size. Turkey chickens are not much in demand. They 
are thin and scraggy; when two or three months old they weigh from 
2 to 3 1/2 pounds and are sold as broilers. Turkey meat when properly 
fattened and cooked is tender, delicate and nourishing and of most excel- 
lent flavor. The flesh is grayish white, free from excessive fat, and there- 
fore much to be preferred to that of the goose. 

Peafowl. — This bird belongs to the pheasant family and is the com- 
mon peacock of Great Britain and America. The peacock has a larger 
amount of flesh in proportion to bone than most fowls. Young peahens 
are as delicate and toothsome as pheasants, but mature ones are dry and 
not as tasty as the flesh of the young pheasant. The older peacock is not 
held in high esteem for its flesh but only for its ornamental plumage. 



298 



AmMAL AND FISH FOODS 



Ducks and Geese. — Ducks and geese are indigestible, unless young 
and tender. There are several varieties of the former, weighing from two 



DUO/< Z.SG .^WO 



/.O <yc^sz/ 







S'£'C0A/O tyO/A/7^ 



0///0/<'£rA/ 




/^<?6,<5// 






/./<y<?y^szz 




<ff.9 9^^7-^ 






C^A/^^s/y 










/:>/?orr/A/ 

^/?Z?C?7-£yAA 







/.O^y^S// 



Fig. 18.— Chemical Composition of Poultry in Comparison with Steak and Chop. 
(Bull. 467, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



DOMESTIC AND WILD FOWLS 299 

to seven pounds. The flesh of the duck is dark and juicy and not as hard 
to digest as the goose flesh. There are several varieties of geese, some 
weighiii<»: from 24 to »38 pounds. (loose flesh is highly prized in Ger- 
many, where it is eaten in every conceivahle form. Goose fat is eaten 
by orthodox Hebrews. They consider it an excellent constituent for many 
dishes. 

PCiie de Fo'ie Gras is made l)v fattening fxcoHo in such a manner as 
to induce fatty infiltration of the liver. This has long been an industry 
in 1^'rance and Germany. These livers sometimes develop to an enormous 
size, weighing two to three pounds. 

Guinea Fowls. — Guinea fowls are domesticated African pheasants. 
Their flesh is tender and very well flavored. The hens are preferred for 
the table. Both the flesh and the eggs are considered a delicacy. The 
young caponizcd birds have flesh like that of the partridge and the older 
ones like that of the pheasant. The meat is dark but highly nutritious. 

Pigeons. — Pigeons are more sought after as a food in Europe than in 
America. They are classed among the domestic white-fleshed birds. The 
young birds, squabs, are best for eating. The cultivation of squabs is 
quite an active industry in this country, because the demand exceeds the 
supply. The squab is a delicacy for both the invalid and epicure. The 
adult pigeon is not so well flavored and requires long cooking to make it 
palatable. 

^MLD FOWL.— Some birds, such as wild turkeys, geese and ducks, 
pigeons, quail, partridge, snipe, grouse, woodcock, pheasants, rice birds 
and prairie chickens, when "high" are preferred by many persons to the 
domestic fowls. 

The wild turkey, goose and duck are like the domesticated birds of the 
same species. The available energy of the edible portions is about the 
same as in domesticated birds. The flavor, however, of the wild birds is 
better. 

The meat of game birds, like that of all wild animals, is rather harsh 
and tough and their fat more strongly flavored. The flesh of the smaller 
game birds, as quail, partridge, snipe, grouse, w^oodcock and rice birds is 
considered a delicacy; the meat of the breast is best adapted for invalids, 

DANGER OF "HANGING" GAME.— The habit of hanging game until it 
gets high is quite objectionable and decidedly unhygienic. When it is 
hung up for this purpose and allowed to become malodorous, putrefaction 
is already well under way. This process of decay not only rapidly leads 
to decomposition and the development of toxins, but is a genuine hotbed 
for microorganisms, which may cause gastric troubles and enteric dis- 



300 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

orders. Such practices, which are bound to endanger the health even of 
the most robust, should be condemned. 

High game, on account of the toxic substances it contains, is even 
dangerous to the circulatory system; the toxins contract the small blood 
vessels and thereby put extra work upon the heart. For this reason, in 
critical cases of cardiac aifection and high blood pressure and in Bright's 
disease, it should not be eaten. 

When meat is stale or game high it is positive evidence that putrefac- 
tive changes have taken place by bacterial action, whereby certain alka- 
loidal substances of the nature of ptomains and leucomains of an exceed- 
ingly poisonous nature are formed. When such food is ingested and ab- 
sorbed, serious and even fatal results often follow. 

Analyses of Meat. — For analyses, comparative nutritive and fuel 
values of butchers' meats, consult Volume I, Chapter XIX, page 693. 
For analyses, comparative nutrition and fuel value of poultry and game, 
consult Volume I, Chapter XIX. 

FISH AND SHELLFISH 

Fish — The flesh of fish is another important source of protein food. 
It is, as a rule, delicate and tender. Fish possesses a peculiar flavor com- 
mon to all fish, but different from the meat flavor of mammals and 
birds. Fish flesh is less stimulating and sustaining and not so satisfy- 
ing as that of birds and mammals. Fish is abundant in both salt and 
fresh water and has always been a favorite food. It forms the staple 
protein food of a large number of the earth's inhabitants. The Japanese 
live almost entirely on fish and rarely, if ever, eat meat. The inhabitants 
of distant islands, as well as the residents of the metropolitan centers, 
have learned the value of fish as a cheap and wholesome source of nour- 
ishment. In fact, in many countries fish is used exclusively as a nitrog- 
enous food. The readiness with which the flesh of fish undergoes de- 
composition changes makes it necessary to use this food fresh from the 
water, or to subject it to some method of preservation, either salting, 
drying, smoking or refrigeration. All methods of preserving fish m.odify 
its flavor and detract from its nutritive value. 

For different varieties of fish, their chemical composition, their nutri- 
tive value, consult tables on fish. Volume I, Chapter XIX. 

FISH AS SEASONABLE FOOD.— All fish are best in season, as out of 
season they lose their flavor, their nutritive value is lessened, and in 
some species an offensive odor is developed, due largely to the food on 
which they subsist or other causes. Fish are in best condition for eating 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



301 



I 



just before spawning; after this period they become thin and unfit for 
food. The popuhir fallacies that because fish have a large percentage of 
phosphorus thov therefore constitnte a good "hrajn food" and that they 
possess aphrodisiac properties, are erroneous theories. It is now well 
known that many fish contain less of this element than meat. 

MOST DIOESTIBLK FISH.— The most digestible fish are sole, whiting, 
butter fish, blue fish, codfish, vjhitefish, flounder, bass, mountain trout, 
fresh haddock, red snapper, perch, shad and smelt. Pavy says, "Of all 
fish, the whiting may be regarded as the mast delicate, tender, easy of 
digestion and least likely to disagree with digestion." 

Fish as Invalid Food. — Fish having white Hesh constitute an excel- 
lent food for invalids and convalescents. Fish intended for the sick 
should be cooked by broiling or boiling f not frying). 

The exact chemical composition of cooked fish, of the more common 
varieties, is shown in the following analysis by ^liss Katherine Williams, 
published in the Journal of the Chemical Society, LXXI, page 049: 

ANALYSIS OF COOKED (BOILED) FISH AS SERVED AT .TABLE 



Fish 


Part Analyzed 


Waste 

(Bones, 

etc.) 


Gelatin 


Water 


Nutrients 


Herrings 


Whole 


11.74 

17.90 

4.91 

5.99 

8.23 

11.66 

10.51 

15.99 

6.13 

35.10 

21.50 

31.20 

6.84 

22.02 
26.17 

18^86 
24.28 
24.37 
46.30 

'7:84 

20.91 

8.19 


0.63 

6.90 

6.53 
0.55 
1.09 
0.25 
0.43 
0.33 
0.80 
0.86 
0.59 
0.03 

0.74 
1.42 

6.38 
2.41 
0.65 
0.65 

0.26 
0.98 
0.19 


52.99 

46.03 

61.50 

42.17 

61.06 

67.12 

53.29 

65.21 

63.78 

67.68 

46.46 

61.29 

53.09 

69.35 

79.86 

61.18 

56.56 

77.71 

65.20 

50.05 

56.52 

39.13 

63.49 

78.01 

60.82 

57.49 


34.54 


Salt Herrings 

Sprats 


Flesh 


53.97 


Whole 


19.70 


Sardines . 


(< 


52.92 


Salmon 


Section 


32.02 


Trout 


Whole 


24.10 


Eels 


Heads removed. . . 
Whole 


33.96 


Mackerel 


24.03 


Cod 


Section 


19.79 


Salt Cod. 


(( 


25.86 


Haddock 


Whole . . 


17.64 


Whiting 


li 


16.35 


Turbot 


Anterior and head. 
Section 


15.12 


Halibut 


23.78 


Plaice 


Flesh 


20.14 


Soles 


Whole 


16.06 


Lemon Soles 

Oysters 


Shell contents. . . . 
Whole 


15.85 
22.29 


Smelts 


15.56 


Red Mullet 


<< 


23.26 


Roach 


u 


18.46 


Gurnet 


i( 


13.92 


Tunny 


Flesh from section 
Section 


36.51 


Hake 


13.89 


John Dory 

Brill 


Whole 


17.29 


Section 


34.13 









302 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



ANALYSIS OF COOKED FISH 



Fish 


Water 

in 
Flesh 


Reducing 
Substances 

in Dry 
Matter as 

Glucose 


Ash in 
Dry 
Sub- 
stance 


Solids in Dry Substances 




N. 


Fat 


Protein 


Herrings 

Salt Herrings . 

Sprats 

Sardines 

Salmon 

Trout 

Eels 


60.54 
46.03 
75.77 
44.35 
65.32 
73.58 
61.08 
73.13 
76.32 
72.35 
72.37 
78.78 
77.84 
74.47 
77.86 
79.20 
78.11 
77.71 
80.73 
68.26 
75.37 
73.77 
63.49 
84.88 
77.89 
62.74 


17.59 

9.88 

14.89 

4.68 

8.91 

13.93 

6.67 

7.14 

13.15 

17.54 

11.81 

11.56 

11.87 

14.80 

18.32 

2.17 

9.79 

6.28 

14.77 

13.64 
14.29 


5.56 

19.69 
6.42 

12.03 
4.94 
6.60 
2.11 
4.07 
3.31 

14.26 
3.28 
1.92 
2.41 
4.11 
4.06 
3.47 
4.42 

12.16 
4.73 
5.42 
1.08 
3.53 
5.52 
3.90 
3.06 
4.42 


11.11 
7.12 
9.26 
8.54 
10.70 
11.96 
7.36 
10.46 
15.30 
12.41 
13.11 
13.28 
13.76 
13.32 
13.02 
14.00 
11.04 
11.85 
11.61 
11.59 
13.03 
14.24 
10.55 
12.86 
13.32 
15.49 


25.25 

21.90 

27.37 

33.49 

29.43 

8.84 

44.68 

25.73 

1.15 

0.94 

1.29 

1.86 

4.75 

15.81 

9.84 

1.71 

12.96 

7.77 

9.76 

24.52 

15.03 

1.81 

30.68 

5.67 

8.52 

1.62 


67.07 
38.88 
57.94 
55.44 
56.65 
80.00 
42.88 


Mackerel 

Cod 


62.32 
91.55 


Salt Cod 

Haddock 

Whiting 

Turbot 

Halibut 

Plaice 

Soles 


76.06 
79.57 
79.55 
84.71 
76.67 
75.16 
86.71 


Lemon Soles.. 

Ovsters 

Smelts 

Red Mullet... 

Roach 

Gurnet 

Tunny 

Hake 

John Dory. . . 
Brill 


69.88 

65.42 . 

82.59 

66.26 

79.14 

89.16 

66.08 

81.36 

79.53 

93.95 



FISH AND DISEASE.— It is a well known fact that the flesh of birds 
which live largely upon a fish diet have a peculiar fishy odor. It is also 
said that people who subsist largely upon a fish diet have a peculiar 
rancid odor. Some skin diseases may be caused and others aggravated 
by a prolonged fish diet. The impression that fish eating produces a 
tendency to leprosy is not, in the opinion of the authors, well founded, 
for leprosy often occurs in places where fish is not a common article of 
food and even in places where fish is difiicult to obtain. 

USE OF FISH AS FOOD IN COAST C0UNT:RIES.— In all countries which 
have extensive coasts, fish is an important article of diet. From the 
earliest times the Greeks and Romans highly esteemed fish as food and 



FISH AND SHKLLFISH 303 

oven placed extravagant value upon certain varieties as a nitrogenous 
food. The inhabitants of the British Isles, according to Tibbies, *'have 
always had an abundance of fish and have eaten of the best varieties. 
The J^riton of today who desires light and nourishing food has plenty 
of fish on the table, most of which is a valuable source of nitrogen and 
phosphorus and easy of digestion." 

Fish ix Ameuica. — Reliable information collected by the U. S. Fish 
Commission places the total weight of fish produced annually in America 
at 2,160,000,000 pounds and its value at $58,000,000. The greater part 
of this is consumed in the United States, although a considerable cpuin- 
tity is canned for export. This estimate does not include the hundreds 
of thousands of pounds caught by sportsmen. 

TREATMENT OF FISH FOR PRESERVATION.— Fish should be killed tho 
moment they are taken from the water, for when allowed to die by slow 
degrees, in or out of the water, they undergo decomposition more quickly 
than if killed at once. The preservation of fresh fish during transpor- 
tation to market is best attained by chilling or freezing. Recent obser- 
vations have demonstrated the fact that when meat is stored at 32^ F., 
the activity of the microorganisms is checked. The action of certain fer- 
ments normally present in meat, however, is not checked and this explains 
why meat may undergo a ripening in cold storage without decaying. The 
deductions reached with regard to fish are that, although a temperature 
of 32° F. effectually checks the action of microorganisms and hinders 
putrefaction, yet the enzymes normally present in the flesh of fish act 
prejudicially and produce bodies emitting unpleasant odors, so that, 
although the fish is not actually decayed, it is far from tasty and 
palatable (10). 

VALUE OF FISH ROE. — Fish roe ordinarily possesses very little nu- 
tritive value and serves principally as a relish. Shad roe, thoroughly 
cooked, is very nutritious. Sturgeon roe, or caviare, which is principally 
used as an "appetizer," is difiicult of digestion, especially when old, black 
or slightly rancid. Good caviare should be of a grayish color and the 
separate eggs easily perceived. The proteins of fish roe contain a good 
deal of nuclein. Fatty fish is contra-indicated in all cases of dyspepsia, 
arthritis, obesity, Bright's disease and cardiac ailments. To the list may 
be added liver complaints, uremia and gout. 

Composition of Fish and Meat. — The following table, from Tib- 
bies' "Foods and Their Manufacture," shows the comparative value of 
fish and meat: 



304 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 
COMPARATIVE VALUE OF FISH AND MEAT 



Variety 


Refuse 


Nutrients, 

PER CENT 


Calories 

per 
pound 


Cost 

per 

pound 


Cost of 
Protein 

per 
pound 


Cost of 

1,000 

Calories 

of energy 




Protein 


Fat 


Codfish Steak 

Bluefish 


9.2 
48.6 
17.7 
24.9 
19.7 
14.2 

13.0 


17.0 
10.0 
15.3 
19.0 
13.9 
19.5 
25.0 
24.6 
16.0 
20.3 
19.8 


.5 

.6 

4.0 

.4 

21.4 

7.5 

3.5 

4.5 

33.0 

19.0 

20.8 


327 

204 

454 

363 

1,107 

658 

615 

605 

1,695 

1,180 

1,245 


12 
12 
18 
7 
10 
12 
20 
14 
20 
12 
22 


.71 

1.20 

1.18 

.44 

.61 

.62 

1.52 

.74 

1.48 

.90 

1.55 


38 
58 


Halibut 


40 


Codfish (salt dried) 
Mackerel 


23 
10 


Salmon (canned).. . 
Beef: Sirloin steak. 

Round 

Mutton chop 

Pork: Loin 

Smoked ham 


18 
21 
16 
14 
10 
14 



Shellfish or Sea Foods. — Shellfish or sea foods most commonly used 
for food may be divided into two groups — crustaceans and mollusks. 

CRUSTACEANS.— The crustaceans include the lobster, crab and shrimp. 
These animals, when alive, are greenish in color, but on boiling turn a 
bright red. It is the skeleton that turns red, as the animal meat is on 
the inside of the shell or armor. 

Lobster. — The lobster varies in length from ten to fifteen inches and 
is found abundantly along the 'New England coast. They are esteemed 
as a rich and nourishing aliment when fresh, but are dangerous when 
out of season or when not cooked alive. They are highly poisonous to 
some persons, even when fresh and properly served. They may excite 
nausea, vomiting and even gastro-enteritis, especially if eaten with other 
foods. In other individuals they sometimes cause urticaria and aggra- 
vate existing skin affections. 

Chemical Analysis of Shellfish. — For the chemical analysis of 
shellfish consult Volume I, Chapter XIX. 

Crabs. — There are several species of crabs, including the hard and 
soft shell crabs, along the Atlantic and Pacific shores of America. The 
most highly appreciated crab is found along the middle and southern 
Atlantic shores. The flesh of the crab is neither so delicate nor so diges- 
tible as that of the lobster. The soft shell crabs are those which are 
caught just after shedding. The hard shell crabs are sea scavengers, and 
when not thoroughly cleaned or imperfectly cooked may be poisonous 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 305 

from contamination with putrid matter, although their own flesh may be 
wholesome. 

SiiKiMPs, Prawns and Cahmotes. — Shrimps are abundant all along 
the sandy shores of America. Prawns are somewhat larger and inhabit 
the deeper waters near land in the vicinity of rocks. Carmotes are lar^r 
shrimps, common in ^Mediterranean waters. They are all tasty morsels, 
with a fair amount of nutrition. The flesh of shrimps and prawns is 
less dangerous than that of lobster and crabs. It is more delicate and 
rather rich in mineral matter. Moreover, they are eatable without sauce 
or other bothersome additions. 

Turtles. — Turtles, inhabiting both fresh and salt water, are impor- 
tant foods. The green turtle, sometimes weighing hundreds of pounds, 
is used chiefly for making green turtle soup, which is a highly esteemed 
luxury as well as a stimulating, nutritious food. The fresh-water tor- 
toises constitute a large family, of which the chicken tortoise is most 
esteemed, its flesh having the flavor of chicken. It is nutritious and a 
highly prized luxury. 

Terrapin. — The diamond hack terrapin is cultivated for the markets 
in the regions of the Chesapeake Bay, Charleston, S. C, and Savannah, 
Ga. The flesh is liked by epicures for its digestibility and agreeable 
flavor. 

Frogs' Legs. — Frogs' legs are now a standard food on the market. 
The hindquarters are the desirable portions. They are in best season in 
the autumn and winter. The flesh has an extremely delicate flavor, tastes 
something like chicken and is easily digested. 

MOLLUSKS.— Mollusks include oysters, clams, mussels, scallops and 
snails. 

Oysters — Their Food Value and Culture. — Oysters are grown in 
shallow salt waters in numerous localities throughout the temperate zone. 
They thrive best near the mouths of rivers where the water is brackish. 
Kaw oysters are very digestible. When properly cooked oysters are often 
recommended as a food for the invalid. There are many varieties of 
oysters on the market, but the most appreciated are the Blue points, from 
the Long Island waters; the Lynhavens, from Chesapeake Bay; Rocka- 
way oysters, from Rockaway, on Long Island, and the Shrewsbury, from 
the New Jersey coast. 

The oyster has never fully come into its own, possibly because of 
prejudice and partly because the people of the interior have not been able 
until recently to get it at its best. The average quality of oysters has 
been greatly improved during recent years as a result of oyster culture, 



306 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



which sprang from the demand on the part of the luxurious few in the 
larger cities for ^^fancy" oysters. 

It can he truly said today that oysters are very sanitary and better 
than ever before and that there is as good a guarantee of their whole- 
someness as there is of milk, strawberries or fresh vegetables not usually 
cooked before consumption. If oysters are cooked there is a double 
guarantee. 

The United States and many municipal governments have realized 
the advisability of supervision and inspection, and there is now exercised 




Fio. 19. — Correct Anatomy of the Oyster. This photograph was taken by Dr. Hugh 
Smith, who says: "It is an astonishing biological fact that in some species of 
oyster each sex is represented by a different individual, as in the oyster of the 
Atlantic coast of North America; while in other species, both sexes are united in 
one individual — the male stage alternating with the female, as in the common 
oyster of the Atlantic coast of Europe." 

close scrutiny of the sources of oysters which are offered on the markets. 
Oyster culture has gradually developed in the United States until at the 
present time nearly half of the oysters produced in the country and about 
two-thirds of the total value of the product are derived from artificial 
beds, privately owned or leased by the states. Beginning in shoal waters 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 307 

along shore, the oyster growers have extended tlieir operations into the 
deep open waters of Long Island Sound, the Chesapeake Bay, and to 
every coastwise state from Maasachnsetts to Texas and from Washing- 
ton to lower California. The few small hoats first employed, propelled 
by sails or oars, have given place to fleets of motor boats and steamers. 
In 1911 oyster planters spread 17,000,000 bushels of young oysters, shells 
and gravel over tlioir 500,000 acres of oyster farms and harvested a crop 
of 15,000,000 bushels of oysters worth approximately $10,000,000. 

Clams. — Clams, like oysters, are found along the coast, and are most 
commonly used at the seashore. In composition they are very similar to 
the oyster. There are three principal varieties, the soft, hard and little 
neck clams. All are used for food. The soft clam is the favorite for 
*^clam bakes," the little necks are eaten raw, like oysters, while the hard 
clam is used for broth or chowder. They have a pleasant flavor and their 
nutritive value is well established, but they are not as easily digested as 
oysters. 

Scallops. — Scallops belong to the oyster family and are obtained 
along the New England coast. They are in season from September to 
March. The flesh of the scallop is very nutritious. Their use is contra- 
indicated in diabetes, since they contain much glycogen. 

Mussels. — Mussels are bivalve mollusks. The common mussel is to 
be found in both salt and fresh water. Although used as food to a con- 
siderable extent, they do not, like oysters, form a dainty dish. Economic- 
ally they are of more value for the pearls found In them than for their 
flesh. 

Snails. — Snails deserve mention, as in some countries they are con- 
sumed as food in great quantities. They are hard, tough and indigestible, 
and must be made appetizing by the use of spicy condiments. They are 
unfit for the sick-room and have nothing in their favor for the hale and 
hearty. 

MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 

Milk — Milk is the secretion of the mammary gland and is confined to 
the mammalia. It is intended for the nourishment of the young animal 
whose mother secretes the fluid and contains all the ingredients needed 
for complete nourishment in just the right proportion which science and 
experience show should be contained in a well balanced ration. 

Milk contains proteins, which furnish the building material for the 
wear and tear of the body ; fats and carbohydrates, which are the fuel to 
keep the body warm and furnish it with energy and power to do its work, 



308 AmMAL AND FISH FOODS 

and the necessary amount of water required by the body, all combined 
with the inorganic salts, without which life cannot continue. 

COMPOSITION OF MILK. — The composition of milk has been studied 
possibly more than that of any other food product. As a result, a large 
amount of reliable information is available. Milk is an opaque fluid, 
containing fat, 4 per cent ; casein and various other proteins, 4 per cent ; 
milk sugar, 4.5 per cent; mineral salts, 0.6 per cent; and water, 87 per 
cent. These are not filtered from the blood by the mammary gland, for 
milk sugar and casein do not exist in the blood. They are products of 
metabolism in the cells of the gland itself. These cells are rich in pro- 
teins and nucleoproteins, one of the latter yielding pentose and guanin. 

Casein. — Casein arises by the union of the nucleic acid from the cell 
nucleus and serum albumin, thereby forming a nucleo-albumin, or, ac- 
cording to more recent classifications, a phosphoprotein. 

Fat. — Fat is a normal constituent of the protoplasm of cells. Dur- 
ing the period of lactation the cells undergo a rapid fatty metamorphosis 
and the globules of milk are derived in this manner, being liberated by a 
destruction of cells. It is an unsettled question whether the fat of milk 
is set free, but it is probable that fats which have been assimilated from 
food are taken up by the cells. It is known that cattle secrete more fat 
than is contained in the food which they consume and it is evident, there- 
fore, that it is produced by the metabolism of proteins and carbohy- 
drates. 

Milk Sugar. — Neither is the origin of milk sugar clearly under- 
stood. We know that lactose is a disaccharid consisting of a molecule 
of dextrose and galactose, probably formed in the glands by a synthetic 
process. A large number of vegetables contain both these sugars. Phys- 
iology teaches us that the animal body is capable of transforming one 
kind of carbohydrate into another and we believe that some of the lactose 
may arise from the transformation of dextrose into galactose. 

Salts and Suspended Matter. — The salts are derived from the 
blood. The suspended matter is milk fat and a small proportion of casein 
in particles too fine to be arrested, except by stone filtration. 

Comparison of Milk. — The following table, taken principally from 
Konig, gives the comparison of the milk of different animals. 

A study of the above comparative table shows woman's milk to be 
richer in sugar, but poorer in protein, than cows' milk, yet the fuel value 
is about the same. Dogs' milk appears to be the richest, whereas that of 
the mare is exceedingly poor. Not only is there a wide variation in the 
milk of different animals, but cows' milk, as we all know, is subject to 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



309 



COMPARATIVE COMPOSITION OF MILK OF VARIOUS ANIMALS 





Water 


Total 
Solids 


Casein 


Protein 


Mineral 

Matters 

(Ash) 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
pound 


Kind of 
Milk 


Albu- 
min 


Total 
Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carl)o- 

hydriitea 

(Milk 

Sugar) 


Woman . 
Cow .... 

Dog 

Ewe 

Buffalo. . 

Cat 

Goat. . . . 
Llama. . . 

Ass 

Mare.. . . 


% 
87.4 
87.2 
75.4 
80.8 
81.4 
82.1 
85.7 
86.5 
89.6 
91.5 


% 
12.6 
12.8 
24.6 
19.2 
18.6 
17.9 
14.3 
13.5 
10.4 

8.5 


% 
1.0 
3.0 
6.1 
5.0 
5.8 
3.1 
3.2 
3.0 
0.7 
1.2 


% 
1.3 
0.5 
5.1 
1.5 
0.3 
6.0 
1.1 
0.9 
1.6 
0.1 


% 
2.3 
3.5 
11.2 
6.5 
6.1 
9.1 
4.3 
3.9 
2.3 
1.3 


% 
3.8 
3.7 
9.6 
6.9 
7.5 
3.3 
4.8 
3.2 
1.6 
1.2 


% 
6.2 
4.9 
3.1 
4.9 
4.1 
4.9 
4.4 
5.6 
6.0 
5.7. 


% 
0.3 
0.7 
0.7 
0.9 
0.9 
0.6 
0.8 
0.8 
0.5 
0.3 


Calories 
319 
313 
671 
503 
506 
400 
365 
312 
222 
180 



great variations in the percentage composition of its component parts. 
As a rule, a young cow produces better milk than an old one and a well 
fed animal with free pasturage yields richer milk than one poorly fed, 
or one well fed and confined in a stall. 

THE FOOD VALUE OF MILK.— L^nless otherwise stated our present 
studies refer to cows^ milk. Federal government experts estimate that 
about sixteen per cent of the ordinary American diet consists of milk or 
milk products. These figures attest the value of milk and the very im- 
portant place it has in the diet even for adults. The milk of the cow, 
therefore, is a very important foodstuif, being of a superior nutritive 
character. It is adaptable for combination with a large variety of other 
articles of food. 

Milk Not a Perfect Food. — The statement, without qualification, 
that milk is a perfect food is somewhat misleading, for while it may be 
a perfect aliment for the suckling, it does not necessarily meet all the de- 
mands of the adult. Besides milk contains more protein than is required 
by an adult. Again, it is rather too dilute a food for adiilt consumption, 
as it would require from four to five quarts daily to furnish sufficient 
nourishment, which would be about equal to six ounces of bread or three- 
fourths of a pound of beef. While it is quite true that it contains all the 
required elements for growth and development of the young mammal, yet 
it lacks certain properties which would make it suitable as a well balanced 
ration for the adult individual. It may be said, however, that it is too 
perfect a food for ordinary adult consumption, as every particle of it is 
assimilated, leaving no indigestible residue necessary for the normal action 
of the alimentary canal. 



310 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



Organic and Inorganic Constituent?' of Milk. — The chief or- 
ganic and inorganic constituents of milk and their percentages are graph- 
ically shown in the schemes of Van Slyke(ll) and Babcock, Bulletin No. 
41, Hygienic Laboratory: 

VAN SLYKE 



Milk, 100 



Water, 87.1 

/Fat, 3.9 

Solids, 12.9 I solids, not fat, 9.0 



100.0 

{Carbon dioxid 
Nitrogen 
Oxygen 



12.9 < 



f Nitrogen com- 
pounds, 3.2 
Milk Sugar, 5.1 
, Ash (salts), 0.7 

9.0 



Casein, 



2.5 



Albumin, etc., 0.7 
3.2 



By this it will be seen that the average percentages of food elements 
in cows' milk is more nearly fat 4, proteins 3.5 and carbohydrates 5, than 
the 4, 4, 4 percentages usually calculated, in top milk formulas, or even 
4, 3.5 and 4.5, as often followed. 

DIGESTION OF MILK.— Digestion of milk in the stomach is not accom- 
plished as quickly as might be supposed. While milk is a fluid outside of 
the body, yet, when it enters the stomach, it is immediately coagulated by 
the hydrochloric acid and rennin of the gastric juice. These curds or co- 
agula set into a hard clot formed by the precipitation of casein and a por- 
tion of the fat that has become entangled in the curd. Since the gastric 
juice is an acid fluid, it is surprising at first thought that curdling does 
not take place instead of clotting. That this does not happen can be ex- 
plained by the fact that the alkaline salts of the milk neutralize the acid 
first secreted by the stomach, and gives the rennin time to act before the 
mixture has become acid in reaction. 

Milk Clots. — These clots vary in size and consistence, depending 
somewhat on the quantity and dilution of the milk ingested. The casein 
is soon converted into some form of peptone and the fat is again set free. 
The albuminous covering of the fat globules is dissolved, coalesces and 
forms drops, iii which L'hape it passes into the duodenum. A portion of 
the water and inorganic salts is absorbed by the stomach. 

After the clot of casein has once formed in the stomach it shrinks into 
a hard leathery mass, which offers great resistance to the digestive efl'orts 
of the organ. If the milk merely curdled, the act of digestion would be 
less difficult, for the particles of precipitated casein would be digested 



Fat, 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 

BABCOCK 

Milk, 100 

Butter fat, 3.6 

Glycerids of insoluble and non-volatile 

acids 3.3 

Olein 
Palmitin 
Stearin 
Myristin 
Butin (trace) 
Glycerids of soluble and volatile acids... 0.3 

3.G 



Butyrin 
Caproin 
Caprylin (trace) 

Milk Serum, 96.4 

Containing nitrogen 3.8 

Casein 3.0 

Albumin 0.6 

Lactoglobulin "j 0.2 

Galactin I — 

Fibrin (trace) J 3.8 

Milk Sugar 4.5 

Citric acid 0.1 

Potassium oxid 0.175 

Sodium oxid 0.070 

Calcium oxid 0.140 

Magnesium oxid 0.017 

Iron oxid 0.001 

Sulphur trioxid 0.027 

Phosphoric pentoxid 0.170 

Chlorin 0.100 



311 



3.6 



Ash, 0.7 
9.1 



Solids, 
not fat, 9.1 

12.7 J 



Total 
solids, 12.7 



0.7 
Water .' 87.3 



100.0 



with comparative ease. Tliis is one of the reasons why buttermilk is more 
easily digested than ordinary milk. 

The density of the clot which milk forms in the stomach depends, on 
the one hand, upon the amount of casein and lime salts which it contains, 



312 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

and, on the other hand, upon the degree of acidity of the gastric juice. 
The richer the milk is in casein and lime salts, and the more acid the gas- 
tric juice, the tougher is the clot. By reducing the proportion of these 
different factors, therefore, the clotting of the milk can either be pre- 
vented altogether or made to take place in such a way that the clot is not 
of great toughness and density. 

Boiling Diluents to Prevent Clotting. — Boiling lessens the di- 
gestibility of the milk, causing the precipitate to be finer and in a more 
flocculent condition. The mere dilution of milk with water lessens the 
percentage proportion of lime salts and casein, making it more easily di- 
gested. The dilution must, however, be at least half and half if any great 
benefit is to be obtained from it. Lime water, as a diluent, is by far more 
efficacious than ordinary water. Barley ivater is a favorite diluent, and 
while it has in itself no gTcater power of preventing clotting than ordi- 
nary water, it seems to some extent, by its slight degree of viscidity, to 
prevent the clot from shrinking into such a hard mass. 

ABSORPTION OF MILK.— Absorption of milk yields from 400 to 450 
calories per pint according to its quality. The protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate content is almost completely absorbed. Rubner in his observa- 
tions on the absorption of milk arrived at the following conclusions: if 
four pints of milk be absorbed daily, the loss of dry substance amounts 
to only 5.7 to 7.8 per cent. If six pints be consumed, the loss amounts to 
10.2 to 11.16 per cent. Wait (Bui. No. 35, U. S. Dept. Agriculture) 
found the absorption of milk to be more complete as a mixed food than 
when taken alone: 

Milk Digested as Milk Digested as 

Exclusive Food Bread and Milk 

Protein 92.1 per cent 97.1 per cent 

Carbohydrates 86.3 per cent 98.7 per cent 

The absorption of milk takes place after it leaves the stomach. Milk, 
like soup and a few other articles of diet, seems to produce a secretion of 
gastric juice independently of reflex nervous influences. It is, therefore, 
as sure to be digested if poured into the stomach through a tube, as if 
slowly swallowed in the ordinary way. As soon as it leaves the stomach 
and is poured into the duodenum, its digestion is completed by the pan- 
creatic juice. This digestive ferment from the pancreatic gland is alka- 
lin in reaction and acts very powerfully on milk, much more so than the 
acid gastric juice. The casein of milk is the best absorbed of all proteins, 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 313 

while the fat of milk enters the blood q\iite as readily as that of beef. It 
has been demonstrated that the fat of aerated milk is absorbed more read- 
ily than that of milk which has not boon so troatod. It is an interesting 
and roniarkablo fact that milk is nnich hotter absorlK'd by yonng children 
than by adnlts. In the case of babies, tlu; absorption is even more com- 
plete. The possible explanation for this nuiy l)e a ^eater demand for the 
lime salts by the infant and a more complete absorption of the mineral 
constitnents of the milk, which react favorably on the absorption of fat of 
the milk. Unabsorbed lime salts are apt to form insoluble soapy com- 
pounds with fat and so hinder its absorption. The comparative absorp- 
tion of raw and boiled milk has been the subject of a good deal of experi- 
mental investigation. One observer found that dogs did not absorb the 
casein of boiled milk quite so well as that of raw milk, while the absorp- 
tion of fat was the same in botli cases. 

Boiling of !Milk. — The bad effects of boiled milk have been strik- 
ingly indicated by an interesting observation made upon calves by Jensen, 
quoted by Czerny and Keller in Des Kindes Erndhrung: "A feeding of 
boiled milk to calves as the first meal will, in most cases, call forth a se- 
vere, and, sometimes even, hemorrhagic diarrhea, which as a rule ends 
in death and presents the same picture both pathologically and bacterio- 
logically as the typical acute dysentery of calves. This observation was 
first made at several farms where there had been no severe diarrheal trou- 
bles, until, with the introduction of tubercular testing, the custom arose 
of feeding the calves from birth on boiled milk. Between eighty and 
ninety per cent of the calves thus fed died." 

Taking the whole of the evidence, the conclusion seems to be justified 
that just as boiling does not appreciably diminish the digestibility of milk 
in the human stomach, so it does not to any important extent interfere 
with its absorption in the intestine. 

There is no question but that milk is absorbed in the intestine with 
far less expenditure of energy than any other food, and again, milk seems 
to exercise a restraining influence upon putrefactive processes in the in- 
testine. There is reason to believe that much of the value of milk diet and 
"milk cures" is the diminished absorption of putrefactive products from 
the intestine. 

PERFECT FOOD.— It is frequently alleged that milk is a perfect food. 
This claim can only be justified, according to Hutchison, in the case of 
any food when it fulfils the following conditions : 

"(a) It must covtain all the nutritive constituents required by the 
body: proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter and water. 



314 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

"(&) It must contain these in their proper relative proportions. 

^\c) It must contain the total amount of nourishment required daily 
in a moderate compass. 

^\d) The nutritive elements must he capable of easy absorption and 
yet leave a certain hulk of unahsorhed matter to act as intestinal ballast. 

^'(e) It must be obtainable at a moderate cost.^^ 

When compared by weight and cost with other articles of food, tlie 
food value of milk is found to be reasonable, yet when the ordinary por- 
tions usually served are considered, the high worth of milk is clearly 
shown. 

The food value of one-half pint of milk equals approximately two, 
large eggs, a large serving of lean meat, or two moderate sized potatoes. It 
is commonly stated that one quart of milk is about equal in food value to 
any one of the following (Rosenau) : 



2 pounds 


of salt codfish 


f pound of lean round beef 


3 " 


^^ fresh codfish 


8 eggs 


2 " 


" chicken 


2 pounds of potatoes 


4 " 


" beets 


6 " " spinach 


5 " 


" turnips 


7 " " lettuce 


i " 


" wheat flour 


4 " " cabbage 


i " 


" cheese 





These comparisons are misleading in a way, for we cannot consider 
foods alone upon their total caloric value, since digestibility and assimila- 
tion as well as the chemical composition and fuel value must be carefully 
taken into consideration. The table on the following page gives instruc- 
tive comparisons between the fuel value and cost of milk and a few other 
standard foods.^ 

Milk Not a Perfect Food. — The claim that milk is a perfect 
food has already been discussed, but we will again briefly refer to this point. 
There is no question but that milk contains all the nutritive constituents 
required by the body, but it is too rich in protein and fat, and too poor 
in carbohydrates, to be a perfect food. The requisite 3,000 calories of 
daily energy would require about 8 pints of milk, which would furnish 
140 grams of protein when 125 is all that is necessary. Again, milk is 
too expensive to be a perfect food. Compare table above for actual cost 
of milk and other foods. 



1 Rosenau's Table on "Comparative Analysis and Energy Value of Milk and Other 
Foods." 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



315 



COMPARISON OF FUEL VALUE AND COST OF FOODS 



Kind of Food 



Ikvf 

Oj'sters 

Butter 

F.RKs 

Milk 

Cheese 

Oatmeal 

Wheat bread 
Beaiis, dry . . 
Potatoes . . . . 
Sugar 



Priec 

per 

pound 



$0.25 
.25 
.20 
.24 
.035 
.16 
.04 
.06 
.05 
.015 
.06 



Cast 
of 1 lb. 
Protein 



$1.60 

4.30 

20.(K) 

2.09 

1.09 

.64 

.29 

.77 

.29 

1.00 



Cast 
|K;r 1(X) 
Calories 



$0.25 
1.11 
.06 
.39 
.11 
.08 
.02 
.05 
.03 
.05 
.03 



Amount for 10 Cents 



Weight, 
lbs. 



.40 

.40 

.50 

.42 

2.85 

.63 

2.50 

1.67 

2.00 

6.67 

1.67 



Protein, 
lbs. 



.06 
.02 
.01 
.05 
.09 
.16 
.34 
.13 
.35 
.10 



Fat, 
lb6. 



!46 

.04 
.11 
.20 
.16 
.02 
.03 
.01 



Carbohy- 
drates, 
lbs. 



.01 



.14 

.02 
1.66 

.87 
1.16 

.93 
1.67 



Energy 
Calo- 
ries 



410 

90 

1,705 

260 

885 

1,18.5 

4,500 

2,000 

3,040 

1,970 

2,920 



Advantages of Milk. — The tendency to regard milk as a beverage 
rather than as a food is to be deplored. This is a great mistake, in the 
correction of which the author cannot do better than quote an extract 
from the valuable publication on Millc as a Food, issued by the U. S. 
Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. The following extract states 
succinctly the advantages which are obtained from the liberal use of milk 
as a food: 

A very interesting experiment was recently made at the University of Maine, 
in co-operation with this department, in which the effect of a limited and an 
unlimited amount of milk was tried at the University boarding-house or "com- 
mons." From these studies the following conclusions were drawn: (a) The 
dietaries in which milk was more abundantly supplied were somewhat less costly 
than the others and at the same time were fully as acceptable; (h) the increased 
consumption of milk had the effect of materially increasing the proportion of 
protein in the diet; (c) the milk actually supplied the place of other food mate- 
rials, and did not, as many suppose, simply furnish an additional amount of food 
without diminishing the quantity of other materials; {d) the results indicate that 
milk should not be regarded as a luxury, but as an economical article of diet 
which famiHes of moderate income may freely purchase as a probable means of 
impro\ing the character of the diet and of cheapening the cost of the supply of 
animal foods. 

Fluidity. — One advantage of milk as a food is that, being fluid, it is 
easily swallowed. This is of considerable importance in the case of weak- 
ened or debilitated patients. Again, the quantity administered can be 
very simply regulated and measured. Its liquid state also permits it to 



316 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

be used as a substitute for beverages. It can be used at meals instead of 
water, as a means of increasing the amount of nourishment. Milk is a 
valuable adjunct w^here a stuffing diet is prescribed. 

Advantages in Disease. — The large amount of water contained in 
milk serves to quench thirst as well as, at the same time, to supply suit- 
able nourishment to fever patients. On account of this same property 
milk may act as a diuretic, a function which is of great moment in the 
dietetic handling of certain forms of heart disease accompanied with 
dropsy. 

The high percentage of water as one of the component parts of milk 
is no serious drawback to milk as a food in most cases of illness. A con- 
valescent patient quietly at rest in a warm bed requires much less nour- 
ishment than an active man and will often gain weight on three or four 
pints of milk per day, notwithstanding the fact that twice this quantity 
is needed by a healthy adult. 

As an article of diet in disease milk occupies an unique position. It 
can be safely said that no other article of food is of so much value, or can 
take its place. The use of milk in the dietetic treatment of various dis- 
eases will be considered at length in subsequent chapters. 

ACCESSORY SUBSTANCES OR VITAMINES OF MILK.— Besides casein, 
albumin, protein, fat and other constituents, milk contains certain acces- 
sory substances too minute for analysis, yet quite necessary for nutrition 
and growth. Hopkins (12) reported the results of his feeding experi- 
ments, illustrating the necessity for certain accessory substances in normal 
dietaries, which he called vitamines. In the feeding experiments he put 
a number of young rats on a diet of casein, fat, carbohydrates and salts. 
To another group he allowed the same ration plus a minute quantity of 
fresh cows' milk. The amounts of food consumed by the two groups 
were practically identical. The first class of rats did not appear to 
thrive; the second class grew normally; so the small addition of fresh 
cows' milk made up a deficiency wanting in the diet of the first class. 
Just what is the nature of the substances in fresh milk, which so mark- 
edly affected the growth of the rats of the second class, is not yet known. 
Boiling milk destroys its vitamines. The addition of peroxid of 
hydrogen as a preservative to milk also destroys its vitamines and de- 
prives the milk of its antiscorbutic properties. 

Importance of Vitamines. — If a nursing mother suffers from a 
deficiency disease like beri-beri, the child will also develop the disease 
because the mother's milk is deprived of its vitamines. Andrews (13) 
says: 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 317 

Half the mortality of Manila consists of infants under one year of age; 
and lialf the infants who die show some sijjn of beri-beri. As three-fourths of 
the infants are breast fed, there is an undeniable relationship between the milk 
and the absence of growth, development and sound health. Manila infants fed 
by a healthy mother, or with fresh cows' milk, do not develop beri-lK»ri, but grow 
normally. This sliows that the milk of healthy women contains vitamines; that 
of unhealthy women does not. Heri-beri is also cured by feeding the infants with 
fresh cows' milk or other substances which are proved to contain vitamines. 

Osborne and Mendel (14) conducted e.xpcrinients in feeding animals 
with isolated proteins and discovered their deficiency as a food material. 
They fed rats with this material: fat, sugar, starch and salts. The fact 
that the animals failed to grow was evident that the food was deficient 
and they supplemented a diet with a preparation of protein-free milk. 
This contained the milk sugar, salts and unknown components of milk. 
Rats which were under-nourished and had failed to grow on the former 
diet, at once resumed their growth on this diet and in due time repro- 
duced their kind. The rats which were under-nourished and showed 
marked symptoms of decline on the isolated proteins, revived so rapidly 
on protein-free milk that the improvement was little short of marvellous. 
It was concluded by the investigators that there are in milk traces of 
essential compounds which promote growth, and these compounds in 
milk are called vitamines. 

Where Vitamines Are to be Found: Chemical Nature. — Fur- 
ther observations are recorded by Osborne, Mendel, Ferry and Wake- 
man (15). They severally concluded that the vitamines of milk 
are to be found in the butter-fat fraction, but that at present 
their chemical nature is unkno^vn. In the first place, in the ex- 
perimental work of Osborne and Mendel, it was found that perfectly 
normal growth was obtained when any one of a large number of 
proteins was used alone with the protein-free milk. Among those 
that have given this result may be mentioned casein, edestin, excelsin, 
glutamin, ladalbumin, egg albumin, egg vitellin, globulins from cu- 
cumber and cotton seed, and corn glutelin. Xot only did each of these 
proteins when fed alone with the protein-free milk give the nor- 
mal curve of growth, but after completion of growth, the normal body 
weight was maintained throughout the normal period of life of the rat, 
which is approximately 1,000 days. Also reproduction and lactation 
took place in these animals in a perfectly normal manner. Certain pro- 
teins, however, when fed alone with the protein-free milk, failed to ac- 
complish one or more of these results. The four most conspicuous exam- 
ples of this class are the gliadin of wheat, the hordein of barley, the zein 



318 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

of corn and gelatin. The insufficiency of gelatin in meeting the nitrog- 
enous demands of the diet is of course well known and led dietitians to 
create for it the special class of albuminoids, although physiological 
chemists have for several years recognized that, chemically, gelatin is a 
true protein and have so classified it in common with the other proteins 
of skeletal tissue. 

Casimir Funk fed chickens on casein, fat, carbohydrate and salts. 
The fowls ceased to grow and developed polyneuritis, which he called 
the beri-beri of birds. After which clinical investigation he arrived at 
the conclusion that this disease in chickens was due to the absence of 
vitamines in the food. He demonstrated this by feeding a coop of 
chickens on ordinary food and they grew normally. He then fed a coop 
of chickens with polished rice ; they ceased to grow and in time developed 
beri-beri and died quickly. He then fed another coop of chickens on 
unpolished rice ; these birds also ceased to grow, but did not develop beri- 
beri. Another coop of chickens w^ere fed on unpolished rice and yeast. 
They grew slowly. His conclusions from these observations is that nor- 
mal food contains a growth vitamine, but it is not the same as in the beri- 
beri vitamine. For further information see Volume III, chapter on "Diet 
in Deficiency Diseases." 

CERTIFIED MILK.— Certified milk is the very best, the very freshest, 
the very cleanest, the very purest and the very safest raw milk that it is 
possible to produce. It is a product which has been drawn from tested 
cows, and handled and marketed in a most painstakingly careful man- 
ner — according to rules and regulations formulated by the proper author- 
ities of the community where it is sold and as originally taught by the 
late Dr. Henry L. Coit, of Newark, N. J., the pioneer in producing cer- 
tified milk and the prime organizer of the American Association of 
Medical Milk Commissions, through whose influence valuable legisla- 
tion for pure milk has been promulgated in a few states, as New York, 
New Jersey, Ohio, Massachusetts and Kentucky. Certified milk, except 
in these states (certified, as originally used), means nothing, as it may 
be certified by interested parties. Certified milk should be of uniform 
composition and of the highest quality, obtained by cleanly methods, from 
healthy cows, under special sanitary precautions prescribed by a medical 
milk commission. The production of certified milk represents the highest 
ideals in milk dairying. 

New York Medical Society Eegulations. — The regulations of 
the milk commission of the Medical Society of the County of New York 
require that there shall be less than 30,000 organisms of all kinds per 



\ 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 319 

cubic centimeter in ccrtitied milk. It must average 4 per cent of butter 
fat and must be sold on the day it reaches tlie city. Certified milk is 
often found t6 contain only 8,000 bacteria to the cubic centimeter while 
an ordinary milk may contain as umuy as 50,000 or more(in). In Bos- 
ton, New York, riiiladclphia and other largo centers of population the 
amount of certified milk sold is less than one per cent of the total supply. 
Standards of the American Association of Medical Milk Com- 
missions. — The ^^American Association of Medical Milk Commissions" 
has just published Methods and Standanh for the Distribution of Certified 
]\i ilk (17), "These standards represent the highest quality of milk pos- 
sible to produce. It is the ideal to which all milk production should aim. 
The rules laid down in this ])ul)lication are given herewith, representing 
the highest ideals in dairy practice: 

REQUIREMENTS 
General Requirements 

"(a) Certified milk shall be produced by a trustworthy dairyman in 
accordance with a code of requirements prescribed by a medical milk com- 
mission. The dairyman shall enter into a legal contract with the com- 
mission, in which he shall agree to comply with all its requirements. 

"(&) Certified milk shall be obtained from healthy, tuberculin tested 
cows under veterinary inspection; all persons who directly or indirectly 
come in contact with the milk shall be under medical supervision and the 
milk itself shall be subjected to periodical bacteriological, chemical and 
other tests. 

"(c) Certified milk should be free from harmful germs and shall con- 
tain relatively few of the common bacteria. It should not contain more 
than 10,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter; this average should be based 
upon bacteriological examinations covering a period of ninety days, and 
the counts should be made at least once a week during this time. 

"(cZ) Certified milk must be bottled at the point of production, rapidly 
chilled, kept cold and delivered promptly to the consumer. After it is 
once chilled, the temperature of certified milk should at no time go above 
45° F., or below 32° F. 

"(e) Certified milk shall be normal milk'; that is, neither heated, 
frozen nor altered in any way except strained and cooled. 

"(/) Certified milk shall be of uniform quality and contain not less 
than 3.8 per cent, nor more than 4.2 per cent, of fat, unless it is labeled 
otherwise, in which case it shall not vary more than 0.2 per cent from 
the amount stated on the label. 



320 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



^'{g) Certified milk shall not be subjected to the action of heat; shall 
not be subjected to the action of any preservative whatever except cold; 
shall not be subjected to the action of light, electricity, pressure, or any 
special force or agency of any kind for any purpose; no substance of any 
hind shall be added to the milk for any purpose; and no part of the milk 
chall be removed. 



Special Conditions 

"Pastures or paddocks to which cows have access shall be: 

"(o) Free from marsh or stagnant pools. 

"(&) Crossed by no stream which might easily become dangerously 
contaminated. 

"(c) At sufficient distance from offensive conditions to suffer no bad 
effect from them. 

"((^) Free from plants which affect the quality of the milk dele- 
teriously." 

Pasteurized 
Milk. — Pasteurized 
milk was first ad- 
vised in 1886 by 
Soxhlet, who lauded 
the procedure, de- 
scribing an apparatus 
for pasteurizing milk 
in the home. Pas- 
teurized milk, at best, 
only means heated 
milk, and does not 
necessarily mean 
clean or good milk. 
On the other hand, 
it often means bad 
milk. Unfortunately 
the pasteurization of 
milk lulls one into a 
false feeling of se- 
curity in regard to it 
as a food for infants. 
Pasteurization kills 
all pathogenic bac- 




FiG. 20.— Interior of a Complete Milk Plant. The illus- 
tration shows (a) milk clarifier, (b) pasteurizing and 
milk holding tanks, (c) milk cooler, (d) storage tanks 
for cold milk, (e) bottle filling and capping machine. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



321 



O 



teria and from Ji8 to 9!) per cent of the other bacteria. After pas- 
teurization there is less inhibition to bacterial growth than in raw milk. 
l*asteiirized milk will not keep more than three or four days, for the 
acid-fonninc: bacteria are still i)resent, nor ran a guarantee Im giv(m that 
tho taste will not change. 

Boiled Milk. — The boiling of milk produces partial fixation of tho 
calcium phosphate and the precipitation of nuigncsium salts. This lK)il- 
ing also precipitates the citric acid of milk to a tri-calcium-citrate and 
the soluble albumins are completely precipitated. The boiling is kept 
up for thirty minutes at 
a temperature of 140° 
to 150° F., which elim- 
inates any danger, di- 
rect or indirect, from 
bacterial action. 

There is another 
method for the preser- 
vation of milk which is 
of considerable interest. 
The milk is first heated 
to 150° F. and then 
aerated with a mixture 
of oxygen and carbonic 
gas. Then the milk is 
again twice heated to 
a temperature of 150° 
F., each time for a 
period of thirty min- 
utes. Milk so treated keeps quite good for an indefinite period and 
shows no alteration in taste. 

Home Pasteurization. — Milk may be satisfactorily pasteurized in 
the home by the use of a Freeman or Straus pasteurizer. This simpli- 
fies the procedure and at the same time secures perfect pasteurization of 
the milk. Imperfect pasteurization is worse than none, for the reason 
that it gives a false sense of security while the danger of further con- 
tamination of the milk remains. 

The home pasteurizer devised by Mr. Tfathan Straus is a modi- 
fication of the Freeman pasteurizer and is shown in the accompanying 
illustration. Straus gives the following directions for using the home 
pasteurizer : 




Fig. 21. — Straus Home Pasteurizer. (Courtesy of 
the New York Healtli Department.) 



322 A:NriMAL AND FISH FOODS 

Emphasis is laid on the fact that only fresh, clean milk, which has 
been kept cold, should be used. 

^'After the bottles have been thoroughly cleaned they are placed in 
the tray (A) and filled to the neck. The corks or patented stoppers are 
then put on without fastening them tightly. 

"The pot (B) is now placed on the wooden surface of the table or 
floor and filled to the supports (C) with boiling water. 

^'Place the tray (A) with filled bottles into the pot (B) so that the 
bottom of the tray rests on the supports (C) and put cover (D) on 
quickly. 

"After the bottles have been warmed up by the steam for five minutes, 
remove the cover quickly, turn the tray so that it drops into the water, 
replace tiie cover immediately. This manipulation is to be made as rap- 
idly as possible to avoid loss of heat. Thus it remains for twenty-five 
minutes. 

"Now take the tray out of the water and fasten the corks or stoppers 
airtight. Cool the bottles with cold water and ice as quickly as possible 
and keep them at this low temperature until cold. 

"Use the milk from the bottles and do not pour it into another vessel. 

"The milk must not be used for children later than twenty-four hours 
after pasteurization." 

The attempt is frequently made to pasteurize milk in the home by 
simply placing the bottles of milk in a pot of water and boiling for a 
variable length of time and finally cooling. If the bottles were completely 
submerged in water, or if the bottle had a reasonably well fitting cover, 
the process might be fairly satisfactory in the hands of a competent 
nurse, but as usually done the necks of the bottles bob about above the 
surface of the water and the top layers of the milk escape tlie proper 
heating, more especially if the contents of the bottles are not well shaken 
before commencing, as the top layers of thick cream would prevent cir- 
culation in the liquid. 

General Summary of Pasteurization. — Rosenau(18), after con- 
sidering the subject of pasteurization at great length, concludes as follows : 

Pasteurization means "parboiling." 

The heat kills the harmful germs, too often found in milk, such as produce 
tuberculosis, typhoid, diphtheria, scarlet fever and the summer complaints of 
infants. 

Pasteurization is not ideal, but at best only a temporary expedient; it is the 
simplest, cheapest and least objectionable method of rendering infected milk 
reasonably safe. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 323 

It has only one object — to destroy genus. There can l)e no more objection to 
pasteurized milk for the use of adults and children over two years of age than 
there can be to the broiling of a beefsteak. 

Babies should have motlier's milk, for which there is no adequate substitute. 
If mother's milk is not available they are entitled to the very best and freshest 
cows' milk obtainable. Whether such baby's milk is to be modified, pasteurized 
or otherwise treated, is a (juestion for the attending physician to decide in each 
individual case. Paoteurized milk is just as (ligestiblc an<l just as nutritious as 
raw milk. The correct temperature to heat the milk is 140" F. for 20 minutes. 
Higher heat or longer time is not necessary. Anything less is not effective, and 
gives a false sense of security. Pasteurization should never be ustnl as a redemp- 
tion process, nor as a preservative, nor to atone for HItli, nor to make good milk 
out of bad milk. All that pasteurization of milk does is to destroy certain of the 
dangerous germs in milk. 

All milk. that cannot be certified as clean, fresh and safe, should be pasteurized. 
Pasteurization sliould always be done under the supervision of the health officer. 
It is too important a measure to leave to the caprice of individuals. The bottle 
sliould bear a label with the time, temperature and date of pasteurization. Pure 
milk is always better than a i)uritied milk, but until the milk is safe, the only 
protection is through pasteurization which will prevent sickness and save lives. 

STERILIZATION OF MILK.— Sterilization of milk consists in boiling 
the milk for from five to twenty niinntes. This destroys all bacteria and 
their spores. At the same time, however, the power of the milk to inhibit 
their growth is destroyed and any contamination will be followed by a 
marked increase of the number of bacteria in a few hours. The bac- 
teriology of milk has been the subject of an enormous amount of research 
during recent years, but space is too limited to deal with the subject ex- 
tensively here. (See Bulletin No. 25, L". S. Dept. of Agriculture.) We 
can safely assert that the accusation, that milk is not an infreqlient cause 
of disease, has been satisfactorily proven. 

Milk as it comes from the udder of a perfectly clean cow may be 
safely regarded as a sterile fluid; not only is it sterile, it even seems to 
be possessed of feeble germicidal properties. These ideal conditions are 
impossible to maintain after the milk reaches the milk pail. 

Process of Sterilizatiox. — There are so many conditions favoring 
contamination that it is difficult to produce a milk without it literally 
swarming with bacteria. Roughly speaking, the microorganisms met 
wath in milk are: (a) those which produce souring; (h) the pathogenic 
bacteria. The former are probably harmless, the latter are bearers of 
disease. The disease germs are more easily destroyed than those which 
produce souring. A temperature of 165° F. for a few minutes is suffi- 
cient to destroy them. If the milk is to be preserved for a long time this 



324 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

is not sufficient and the temperature must be raised to 230° F. and kept 
there for some time. This is the process of sterilization. The chemical 
changes produced by sterilization are very marked. Czerny and Keller 
enumerate them as .follows : 

(1) The milk sugar is carameHzed under the formation of acid (lactic acid). 

(2) The coagulated casein and albumin are brought by the acid to an early 
precipitable condition. 

(3) The rennet action on milk is very much impaired through the fact that the 
calcium salts are in part rendered insoluble. 

(4) The milk gases, especially carbonic acid, are expelled. 

(5) The ferment action of the milk is destroyed. 

(6) The fat in part separates from its emulsified state. 

(7) The lecithin is split up and the more organic phosphorous combinations of 
the milk are more or less changed into inorganic. 

(8) Boiled milk undergoes putrefaction, raw milk does not. 

(9) The taste of the milk is disagreeably changed. 

(10) The antiseptic and antitoxic properties of the milk are lost. 

(11) Hydrogen sulphid is recognizable if the milk is boiled longer than five 
minutes. 

DESICCATED MILK.— Desiccated milk is easily made by the Just-Hat- 
maker process, which consists of passing a thin layer of ordinary milk be» 
tween two steam-heated cylinders revolving in opposite directions and 
having a surface temperature of 212° F. This process dries the milk 
in about thirty minutes and completely desiccates the milk to a fine solu- 
ble powder which merely requires the addition of water to bring it back 
again to ordinary milk. The powder so prepared contains all the solids 
of the original milk in a. sterile and soluble form, .and consequently is 
of the highest nutritive value. (See Volume II, chapter ^^Dehydrated 
Foods.") There is every reason to predict that desiccated milk will be in 
great demand in the future. 

Methods of Desiccating Milk. — Another method of making desic- 
cated milk is as follows : The milk is placed in a tank heated by a water 
jacket ; heated air is driven through the liquid until it is reduced to con- 
densed milk. It is then transferred to a rolling drum and more hot air 
driven through it until it is of a semi-solid consistency. The mass is now 
reduced to small lumps and passed through a sieve to make it granular. 
The next step consists of reducing the granules to a fine pow^der. 

Probably the best method of desiccating milk is a process of spraying 
the fresh milk into a warm vacuum chamber where the mist is almost 
immediately deprived of its water and the resulting powder falls to the 
floor of the oven. Just as in the Hatmaker process, the proper quantity 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



325 



of water added to this powder produces a mixture closely resembling 
ordinary milk. This last pro(;e88 yields a desiccated milk which will 
keep in all climates and at the same time be conjplctely soluble in water. 

Use of Dksiccatkd ^Milk. — Desiccated milk is an article of great 
utility, especially when fresh milk is unobtainable or when from some 
peculiar idiosyncrasy sick persons arc unable to retain fresh milk. It is 
extensively used as a food for infants and enters into the composition of 
various proprietary foods. 

Composition of Desiccated Milk. — The following table from Tib- 
bies, with additions, gives the composition of dried milk preparations 
with nutrient percentages: 

CCMPOSITION OF CASEIN AND DRIED MILK PREPARATIONS, 
NUTRIENTS, PER CENT 





1 


1 


1 


1 


r/i 


Other 
Substances 


Remarks 


Casein Preparations: 
Plasmon . . . 


10.50 
3.75 

10.00 
7.00 

8.51 
(95 p 


80.00 
80.00 

78.75 
86.47 

76.37 
er ce 


.34 




7.00 
4.37 
4.73 
2.93 

9.25 


Soda bicarb. 

Soda bicarb. 

4.04 

5.70 

5.0 sodium, 
glycero- 
phosphates 
20.0 albumose 
Soda bicarb. 
Ammonia 


Obtflinpd from slcim 


Proteins 


milk by acetic acid 
Almost identical 


Biogen 


1.58 
3.60 

.17 

nt ca 


sein) 


with plasmon 
Casein ' free from 


Casumen 

Tilia 


starch and sugar 

Casein in flake-like 

powder; free from 

starch and sugar 

Contains 1.83 PjOj 


Sanatogen 

Sanose 


and 1 1.97 N.pr.ct. 

Excepting for the 
addition named, 
they are similar to 


Nutrose 












plasmon, casumen, 


Eucasein 












etc. 


Dried Milk: 

Lacvitum 

Galak 


5.34 


28.04 


29.40 


31.36 


5.96 


Dried whole milk 
Similar to lac^^tum 


Trumilk 


.77 
9.00 


26.44 

40.00 
95.00 
24.00 


28.00 
2.00 


38.92 
39.00 


5.84 
6.25 


Dried whole milk 


Lacumen 

Albulactin 


without starch or 

preservatives 
Dried skim milk 
The albumin of milk 


Mammala 


5.00 


12.00 


.54.00 


5.00 


Dried whole milk 







MODIFIED MILK.— By careful examination of the comparative anal- 
yses given in Konig's table on page 309, it will be seen that hunmn milk 
is not as rich in solids as cows' milk, and although it contains an equal 



326 Al^IMAL AND FISH FOODS 

amount of fat, there is more sugar and less protein. In human milk' one- 
half of the protein content consists of albumin, while in cows' milk only 
one-fifth of the protein consists of albumin. 

Cows' milk is intended to develop the digestive tract of the calf for 
its future task of digesting tough and fibrous food, while human milk is 
intended to develop the digestive tract of the infant for its future work 
of digesting food of an entirely different physical character. 

Cows' milk in the human stomach curdles into large, tough, leathery 
masses and is much harder to digest than the coagula of human milk. 
Furtliermore, the fat globules are much smaller in human milk than in 
cows' ndlk. 

Cows' milk contains more nitrogenous material, but less fat and much 
less sugar than woman's milk. Undue attention has been given to the 
organic constituents of milk and too little to the mineral contents. Cows' 
milk contains twice as much phosphorus as woman's milk. When cows' 
milk is substituted for woman's milk, chlorid of sodium should be added. 
The salts of calcium are present in greater proportions in cows' milk, 
but this difference can be safely neglected, as nature permits of a more 
generous variation in the feeding of infants than do laboratory tyrants. 
Woman's milk and cows' milk differ in specific gravity and reaction. 
There are, therefore, many points of difference between the two kinds 
of milk. In infant feeding especially an effort should be made to imitate 
human milk as much as possible by modifying cows' milk. 

Ingredients Used in Modification. — The ingredients most com- 
monly used to modify cows' milk are cream, containing 16 per cent of 
butter fat, shimmed milk (from the separator), milk sugar and starch, 
usually harley water. These should always be mixed according to the 
formula prescribed by a physician. The proportion of each ingredient 
depends upon the age and condition of the child. Since cream is usually 
rich in microorganisms, infants often thrive as well or better when cream 
is omitted from the modified formula. The aim to have uppermost in 
modifying milk is to bring the proteins and mineral constituents to the 
right proportion by dilution with w^ater; to add lactose to increase the 
sugar and finally cream to increase the fat.^ 

VARIATION IN COMPOSITION OF MILK.— ISTo other foodstuff except 
milk shows such a marked variation except meat. The greatest variation 
in the component parts of milk is shown in the butter fat. The proteins 
and sugars are more constant. The variation in composition of pure 

1 Recent experiments on mice show that sucrose produces less disiurbnnce than 
lactose. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



327 



milk is due to many and varying factors. Certain breeds of cows as the 

Channel Island breeds produce a milk rich in fat. (5 per cent.) The 
llolstein breed furnishes a milk poor in butter fat. (*i per cent.) Young 
cows generally yield a richer milk than older ones. A well fed cow gives 
more and richer milk than a poorly fed animal. Again the quantity of 
milk is more readily influenced by the amoimt and charactcT of the food 
than are the relative proportions of fat, protein and milk sugar. The 
How of milk is usmilly greatest soon after calving. As the period of lac- 
tation advances, the amount of milk gradually grows less, while the milk 
grows richer in solids. It is generally considered that cows which give a 
large quantity, yield milk poor in (piaiity, but this is not always the case. 
It is possible to have a large yield and at the same time have milk of a 
superior quality. 

TiBBLEs' Table on the Composition of Various Milks. — The fol- 
lowing table from Tibbies throws light on this point The table shows 
a difference of 3 per cent in total solids, 2.15 per cent of fat between the 
highest and lowest. This table also shows the variation in the yield of 
milk, as well as the difference in the composition of various breeds of 

cows: 

COMPOSITION OF MILK 



I 







1- 


1. 


-tj 


^+3 




.«^ 


c *=> 


>d 


li 




o fl 


^ a 


a 


fi C3 


M) C! 


^ a 




t, c 




Breed of Cattle 


ft 


13 in 


§8 












^5 


• 


1^ 


1 


^ 


U^ 


1^ 


K 


g^ 




Jersey 


238 
112 

72 
252 
124 


15.40 
14.60 
13.77 
13.06 
12.63 


9.80 
9.46 
9.60 
9.35 
9.08 


5.61 
5.12 
4.15 
3.57 
3.55 


3.91 
3.61 
3.76 
3.43 
3.39 


5.15 
5.11 
5.07 
5.33 
5.01 


.743 
.753 
.760 
.698 
.698 


.618 
.570 
.595 
.543 
.535 


86.40 
85.39 
86.36 
86.95 
87.37 


14.07 


Guernsey 


16.00 


Devon 


12.65 


Ayrshire 


18.40 


American Holdemess . . 


13.40 


Holstein Friesian 


132 


12.39 


9.07 


3.46 


3.39 


4.84 


.735 


.540 


87.62 


22.65 





FRACTIONAL COMPOSITION 


OF MILK 










Stages of Milking 


First 
Milk 


Strip- 
ping 


First 
quart 


Last 




First 


Second 


Third 


Fourth 


Fifth 


Sixth 


quart 


Total solids. . . . 
Fat. 


10.47 
1.70 

8.77 


10.77 
1.76 
8.99 


10.85 
2.10 

8.75 


11.23 
2.54 
8.69 


11.63 
3.14 
8.49 


12.67 
4.08 
8.59 


13.15 

1.32 

11.83 


28.81 

9.63 

19.18 


12.04 

1.22 

10.82 


25.72 

8.48 


Solids, not fat . . 


17.24 



328 



AN^IMAL A:N'D fish FOODS 



NUTRIENTS AND ENERGY IN THE MILK FOODS 




Foods 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel 
Value 
per lb. 


Energy 

Units 

for 10 c. 


Whole Milk 

Skim Milk 

Buttermilk 

Cream cheese .... 
Butter. . . . 


per cent 

34.2 
11.0 


per cent 
25.0 
36.0 
33.0 
25.9 
1.0 


per cent 
31.0 

3.0 

6.0 
33.7 
85.0 


per cent 

39.0 

55.0 

53.0 

2.4 


per cent 
5.0 
6.0 
8.0 
3.8 
3.0 


Calories 
2,475 
1,855 
1,845 
1,950 
3,605 


Calories 
740 
860 

1,185 
1,705 





BACTERIAL CONTENT OF MILK.— Milk is rendered impure by adul- 
teration with water, addition of materials to increase the specific gravity, 
preservatives, dirt and bacteria. The number of bacteria in a given sam- 
ple of milk is evidence to a limited extent of the quality and purity of 
the milk. But the kind and quantity of bacteria present is of greater 
importance. Milk numbering 100,000 bacteria to the cubic centimeter 
is certainly not fit to use in nourishing an infant. A count below 10,000 
is desirable. 

Classes of Bacteria. — The bacteria of milk are divided into two 
classes, pathogenic and non-pathogenic. The former group includes such 
organisms as the tubercle bacillus, the typhoid bacillus and the diphtheria 
bacillus. Milk containing these organisms is a direct source of danger 
to the child or individual who drinks it, hence their presence is absolutely 
detrimental to health and should positively be prevented in all milk sup- 
plied to infants. Kosenau (Bui. ]Sro. 42, Hygienic Laboratory) has de- 
termined that a temperature of 140° P., maintained for twenty minutes, 
will destroy these and other pathogenic bacteria. The pathogenic bac- 
teria, the staphylococci, streptococci, do not appear to be a source of great 
danger in milk. Lactic acid bacilli, etc., are a source of danger, how- 
ever, not because of their direct action upon the human organism but be- 
cause of their decomposing action on the milk itself, which renders it 
unfit for use. Immediately after milking, the number of bacteria varies 
from none to 10,000,000 in a cubic c.c. of milk. They begin to multiply 
as soon as the milk reaches the milk pail, and continue to do so with the 
most marvelous rapidity. Miguel found that milk brought to his labora- 
tory had bacteria as follows : 

Bacteria in Milk 

Immediately after milking 9,000 per c.c. 

One hour after milking 31,750 " " 

Nine hours after milking 120,000 " " 

Twenty-four hours after milking 5,600,000 " " 



MILK AND MILK rUODUCTS 

itage composition and fuel value of nUlk, i 
some other foods. 

(The constituents ore expressed In per cent, the fuel values In colorles per pound.) 



329 



Percentage composition and fuel value of nUlk, milk products, and 
some other foods. 



Protein. Fats. Carbo- Mineral 
hydrutcs. matters. 



Water. Kcfuso. 



Fuel value. 



Nutrients, etc., p. ct. 



10 



20 



30 



40 



SO 



60 



70 



80 



90 



400 6 00 1200 1600 2000 2400 2800 3200 3600 400 



Fuel VRlue of 1 Ib- 




FiG. 22.— Percentage Composition of Foods. (Bull. 363, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



330 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



Tibbies believes this to be a common experience and a moderate esti- 
mate of the bacteria in milk, for other observers have recorded 60,000 to 
100,000 per c.c. immediately after milking and from 2,000,000 to 6,000,- 
000 in six hours. The temperature at which the milk is kept influences 
the development of these bacteria considerably. Conff found that a sam- 
ple of milk kept in a cold cupboard for four days had only 10,000 bac- 
teria per c.c. ; but a sample of the same milk left in a warm room for only 
one hour had 1,000,000 bacteria per c.c. The rate of increase of the 
bacteria in milk kept at 12.5° C. (54.5° F.) and at 34° C. (93° F.) 
was estimated by Conff and is given in the following table : 

MULTIPLICATION OF BACTERIA IN MILK 



Time since Milking 


Temperature 12.5° C. 


Temperature 34° C. 


1 hour 

2 hours 

3 " 

4 " 

5 " 

6 " 


nil 

4-fold 

6 " 

8 " 

26 " 

435 " 


7.5-fold 
23 " 

64 " 

215 " 

1,830 " 

3,800 " 



However, the actual number of bacteria in milk is of little impor- 
tance, so long as they are not pathogenic. Still some species of bacteria 
are of great value to the dairyman and are by no means injurious if con- 
sumed with the milk. This refers to the rapidly developing group of lac- 
tic acid bacteria and others which are of considerable importance in 
cheese and butter making. 

Source of Milk Bacteria. — The source of bacteria is of interest as 
normal milk from a healthy cow is considered practically sterile. It is 
possible that small wounds, cracks or fissures on the teats may lead to 
bacterial invasion ; also germs may invade the mouths of the teats, so that 
the first milk drawn is infected. It is possible also for later drawn milk 
to be infected by bacteria extending up the milk ducts, or invading the 
deeper portions of the gland even to the alveoli. 

There are various other sources of bacteria, such as dust that may 
settle on the milk; again hairs from the cow's hide or bits of dirt or 
manure rich in bacteria may be flicked into the milk pail by the switch- 
ing of the cow's tail. The hands of the milker and the milk utensils 
are fruitful sources of bacteria. It has been shown that the bacteria 
increase with each handling of the milk, whether this be pouring the 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 331 

milk from one container to another, straining, ^lin•illf(, or any one of 
the routine measures eonunon in the care of milk. The (jnlinary fanner 
does not know that the common fly carries with him an average popu- 
lation of from 550 to 155,000,000 bacteria. A fly clropj)ing int^j the 
milk introduces into it not only objectionable parasites, but also quite 
possibly pathogenic organisms. It can be seen from the above outline 
how essential to health is the most painstaking and intelligent care of 
milk. 

MacConkey, who has made a detailed study of many samples of milk, 
has found in some of these about thirty-six varieties of the Bacillus coli 
and Bacillus enteriditis sporagenes. In others he discovered the Staphylo- 
coccuc i)yogenes aureus and the Staphylococcus albus. The existence in 
the milk of the first two varieties affords proof of the presence of either 
cow dung or human feces. As the Bacillus enteriditis does not multiply 
in milk, its presence is evidence of original pollution. In case of the 
presence of streptococci in milk, inflammation of the udder or teats is 
to be inferred. The drinking of milk so contaminated is not infrequently 
followed by an epidemic of sore throat. 

CHANGES IN MILK.— The first change that takes place in milk after 
being strained and set aside is the separation of the fats as cream, which 
rises more readily if the milk is kept at a low temperature. The second 
change is souring, which is hastened by warmth and by storing in unclean 
vessels or filthy surroundings. 

The Souring of Milk. — Although the reaction of milk when freshly 
drawn is slightly alkalin (amphoteric) ^ with a specific gravity of from 
1.029 to 1.033, the reaction soon changes, becoming more and more acid 
as the milk gets older, due to exposure to the air and to the transforma-* 
tion of the milk sugar (C10H22O11) into lactic acid (CaHyO^). In the 
course of time the development of lactic acid is so great that the milk 
will coagulate on boiling. The coagulation results in the formation of a 
solid mass of casein which slowly contracts so tightly as to force out a 
greenish yellow fluid, whey. Huppe was the first to describe the lactic 
acid bacillus. According to his teaching it develops rapidly and multi- 
plies freely at a temperature between 50° and 113° F. The production 
of lactic acid from milk sugar is effected by quite a number of micro- 
organisms, including bacilli, micrococci, streptococci and other bacteria. 

Bitter Milk. — Bitter milk is the result of the cow's feeding on such 
herbs as lupin, wormwood, turnips, cabbage, etc. A bitter taste, which 
develops in the milk some hours after it is drawn, is due to certain bac- 
teria in the milk. When milk putrefies it is usually referred to as the 



332 AOTMAL AND FISH FOODS 

alkaline fermentation of milk. Such milk has a bitter taste and a slimy 
curd. The principal cases of putrefaction in such milk are due to spore- 
bearing bacilli belonging to the haj bacillus group. 

Slimy or Kopy ]\Lilk. — The cause of so-called slimy or ropy milk 
is the presence of the Bacillus lactis viscose, which brings about fermen- 
tation. This very resistant organism is introduced into milk through 
the water supply. Once infected by this microbe, a dairy must have the 
most careful attention before the source of contamination can be ban- 
ished. Experiments with ropy milk have shown in some instances the 
attainment of such a degree of viscosity that a thread of the milk could 
be stretched to a length of ten feet. Although in Norway slimy milk is 
considered a delicacy, it is held in this country to be most undesirable. 

Colored Milk. — Various changes in the color of milk are not un- 
common. Eed milk may be due to blood. A reddish tint in milk may 
also result from feeding cows on plants containing much red pigment, 
such as madder root. Again a red color will also be produced by the 
Bacillus erythrogenus, which is without sanitary significance. 

Milk Flavor. — Flavors in milk vary from time to time, due largely 
to the food the cow eats. Wild onions even in very small quantities mark- 
edly afi'ect the flavor of the milk. This effect may last for some days. 
It is also well known that the flavor of milk is readily affected by tur- 
nips, garlic, mouldy hay, damaged ensilage and distillery waste. Cows 
are usually good botanists and rarely eat wild onions, garlic, etc., but 
they cannot always be relied upon, so far as food is concerned. Cows 
grazing in pastures where poisonous herbs and weeds grow are liable to 
feed upon these objectionable plants, the poisonous odors of which pass 
into the milk. Herds producing certified milk are not allowed to graze 
at large. 

It is generally held that the milk from cows fed upon mouldy grain 
and damaged ensilage will cause gastro-enteric disorders in persons who 
partake of the milk. It is well known that mother's milk contains cer- 
tain protective antibodies. Infants reared on mother's milk are supposed 
to have more resistance to certain diseases than infants raised on cow's 
milk. 

PRODUCTION OF CLEAN MILK.— The production of clean milk is a 
comparatively simple matter, but it requires painstaking care and con- 
stant supervision and is best undertaken by persons trained in dairying. 
The first consideration is a healthy cow which must be kept clean and fed 
upon good, wholesome, nutritious food. The entire herd should be semi- 
annually tested for tuberculosis and no cow should be added to the herd 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 333 

which has not successfully passed the tuberculin test within the preceding 
three months. Long hair on the udder and surrounding parts should be 
removed. The cows should be well groomed an hour before milking. 
The udder and surrounding parts should be thoroughly washed with 
clean water and clean cloths just before milking. ]So employee suffer- 
ing with a sore throat or any infectious or contagious disease should be 
allowed about the stables or dairy building. The stables should be clean, 
light and airy. No dogs, hogs, fowls or other animals should be allowed 
about the cow barn. Nothing that would tend to stir up dust, such as 
sweeping, should be allowed. The water supply should be absolutely 
pure. The drainage of the cow barn floors should be perfect and the 
daily removal of waste should be carefully attended to. The milkers 
should wear clean clothes and their hands should be scrupulously clean 
and kept dry while milking. The milk pails and other vessels should be 
scalded with boiling water before use. While engaged in handling milk 
no employee should use tobacco or intoxicating liquors. They should also 
keep their hands away from the mouth and nose. 

THE HANDLING AND CARE OF MILK.— In order to produce clean, 
wholesome milk, the main question is cleanliness of barns, of cows, of 
attendants, healthy cows and good, wholesome food. The question of 
handling is reduced to cleanliness of milk vessels and protection of the 
milk from contamination by dust and dirt and to keeping the milk cool. 
The milk should be immediately cooled after milking and kept cool until 
used. This can best be accomplished by using some of the modern milk 
coolers. 

According to the Creamery Journal, the best method of preserving 
milk in hot weather is as follow^s: 

When the milk is drawn from the eow, it should at once be cooled down by 
means of a circular capillary cooler in which there is cold water or brine. The 
best temperature to attain is 38° F., obtained by means of the refrigerator or ice. 
The latter method is expensive and the treatment can only be done in a large 
dairy. When the proper temperature is reached the milk is ready for the road. 
Upon arrival in town it should be pasteurized by heating it to 140° F. for twenty 
minutes and then promptly placed in bottles which have been washed and dried. 
The bottles should be closed by a stopper and cooled to 38° F. by water or in a 
cold room before being sent out to the consumer. 

TRANSPORTATION OF MILK.— At no time between the cooling of the 
milk and its delivery should its temperature be allowed to go much below 
the freezing point, 32° F. The dispensing of milk from open cans in 



334 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

shops or wagons should not be allowed. The safest method of marketing 
milk is in bottles sealed from dust and contamination. 

ADULTERATION OF MILK.— Adulteration of milk is accomplished in 
many ways, usually (a) by adding water, (6) by removing the cream 
without the addition of water, (c) by adding preservatives. The adding 
of water was formerly detected by the use of the lactometer, an instru- 
ment for determining the specific gravity of milk. The instrument sinks 
to a definite point in pure milk of a specified temperature. However, the 
lactometer is not of much use if the cream has been removed. If the 
cream is removed it can be detected by the Bah cock tester, a simple in- 
strument; it is a centrifugal machine, containing a bottle with a long 
neck graduated to show percentages of fat. Machines of this type are 
in use at all dairies and milk factories. 

The Use of Preservatives. — The use of preservatives is often re- 
sorted to, to prevent the souring of milk. Sodium bicarbonate (ordinary 
baking soda) was formerly used to neutralize the lactic acid; more re- 
cently boric acid, peroxid of hydrogen and formalin have been used as 
preservatives. The addition of any preservative to milk cannot be too 
strongly condemned. The practice is rightly forbidden in many cities 
and states. A food of such great importance, frequently the sole depend- 
ence for the nourishment of infants and invalids, should be kept free from 
adulteration. 

MILK PRODUCTS 

SKIM MILK.— Skim milk is that milk which remains after removal 
of the cream by hand or machine. It contains the proteins and carbo- 
hydrates of the milk and is an excellent food substance. In reality, it is 
whole milk deprived of its fat. It still contains the valuable proteins, a 
little fat, the milk sugar and most of the mineral salts. When the fat 
is removed by hand the milk is put aside to "set," for the cream to rise. 
During this period the milk undergoes changes, owing to the develop- 
ment of bacteria, which more or less impair its freshness. As a result, 
hand-skimmed milk is not so desirable and is usually fed to pigs and 
poultry. 

However, with the improved centrifugal separators the fat can be 
removed immediately after it is drawn, leaving a shim milk — a food of 
no mean value, which can be used in cooking as a substitute for whole 
milk. Skim milk is of course not a suitable food for infants. 

Composition of Skim Milk. — The amounts of fat in hand-skimmed 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



335 



milk and separator-skimnicd milk arc graphically given in the tahlo below, 
from Tibbies: 

COMPOSITION OF SKIM MILK, PERCENTAGES 





Hand skimmed 


Machine skimmed 


Water 

Casein and Lactalbumin 


89.73 
3.95 

.89 
4.62 

.81 


90.25 
4.02 


Fat 


.25 


Lactose 


4.65 


Ash 


.85 







CREAM. — When milk is allowed to stand in shallow pans for some 
hours in a cool place, at a temperature of about 00" F., the fat globules 
and some little adhering substance rise to the surface and give us what in 



WHOLE M/LH 



S/f/M M/LK 




FUEL VALUE. 



C 



C/IRBOHYOR/ITESS. O 



UA/SIA/££T£NED 
CONDENSED MiLK 




^'ROTE'/A/ : 3.4- 



FUEL value: 



3tO CALORIES PER POUND 



BUTTERM/LK 



rAT:9. 




j4SH:f.7 




□ 



165 CALOR/ES PER POUAU>. 



'0TE/N:9.6 
carbohydrates: /f. 2 



CRE/fM 



FUEL value: 



780 CALORIES PER POUND 



PR0TE//V:30 

RBOHyDRAT£S:4^ 




^^PRcrE//\/:2.S 

C^RBORYDRATSS'^S^ 



FUEL value: 



FUEL value: 



□ 



ISO CALORIES PER POUND €65 CALORtZS PER POUND 

Fig. 23.— Percentage Composition and Fuel Value Per Pound of Whole Milk and 
Some Milk Products. The constituents are expressed in per cent and the fuel 
values in calories per pound. (Bull. No. 363, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



336 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



dairying is termed cream, which in reality is butter fat. This fat is in 
the form of an emulsion; that is, the small fat globules do not coalesce 
to make a clear, oily liquid, due to some special viscosity of the liquid. 
One reason for this is believed to be the fact that each fat droplet in milk 
is surrounded by an albuminous envelope. So long as this envelope is in- 
tact, the emulsion is secure; but as soon as this is broken by agitation, 
or softened and dissolved during the process of souring, the fat droplets 
readily run together and destroy the emulsion. For this reason it is much 
easier to make butcer from cream that is '^ripe" or partly fermented. 

Devonshike Cream. — Devonshire cream is a cream product some- 
times termed dotted cream and is very popular in Great Britain. It is 
made by allowing pans of milk to stand undisturbed in a cool place until 
cream rises and then scalding, care being taken not to disturb the cream 
on top of the milk. When this is properly done and the pans allowed to 
cool, the cream may be taken off in a thick, clotted condition ready for 
use. It has a peculiar, nutty flavor, which most persons relish. 

Comparative Analysis of Mii.k and Milk Products. — The com- 
parative analysis of milk and milk products is graphically expressed in 
the following table from Hall on "Nutrition and Dietetics" : 

MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 





Water 


Proteins 


Fats 


Sugar 


Salts 


Lactic Acid 


Milk 


86.8 
88.0 
90.6 
66.0 
36.8 
6.0 


4.0 
4.0 
3.8 
2.7 
33.5 
0.3 


3.7 

L8 

L2 

26.7 

24.3 

91.0 


4.8 
5.4 
3.3 

2.8 


0.7 
0.8 
0.6 
L8 
5.4 
2.7 




Skim milk 




Buttermilk 

Cream 


0.3 


Cheese 




Butter 









BUTTERMILK.— Buttermilk differs from whole milk and from skim 
milk. It contains very little fat. It is as rich in protein (casein) as 
milk, and since this is in a finely divided condition, buttermilk is quite 
readily digested. Buttermilk contains very nearly as much milk sugar 
as whole milk, as the loss due to lactic acid fermentation is very small. 
The presence of lactic acid in buttermilk makes it an excellent diet in 
the treatment of certain diseases. Buttermilk is often used as a bever- 
age and has practically the same food value as skim milk. It is easily 
digested and very nutritious. An ordinary glass contains about as much 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 337 

nourishment as two ounces of bread, a good sized potato, or a half pint 
of oysters. To many individuals buttermilk is quite as palatable, or 
even more so, than whole or skim milk, but some find the sour taste un- 
inviting. Its casein forms a more tlnky curd than that of ordinary milk. 
Duttcrmilk is frequently fed to bahic^s, especially in Holland, and is 
especially valuable when the protein of ordinary milk interferes with the 
digestive process. 

UsK OF BuTTKKMiLK. — Tho goHcral uso of buttcmiilk in this coun- 
try is rapidly increasing, so much so that it is freijuently made from 
whole milk by inoculating it with la(;tic acid bacilli. This is a pleasant, 
wholesome, nutritious drink much in vogue at the present time. It con- 
tains the casein of the milk in a finely coagulable form, has a pleasant 
acrid taste and contains lactic acid bacnlli and the fat of the whole milk. 
It is useful in feeding invalids, especially those suffering from certain 
forms of gastric and intestinal disorders. 

Analysis of Buttermilk. — Ordinary buttermilk, according to Wiley, 
shows the following, analysis : 

From Sweet From Sour 

Cream Cream 

Water 89.74 90.93 

Fat 1.21 0.31 

Milk Sugar 4.98 4.58 

Protein 3.28 3.37 

Ash 0.79 0.81 

Acidity 0.80 



WHEY.— Just as buttermilk represents the residue of milk from butter 
making, so whey represents what is left from cheese making. It con- 
sists mainly of water, milk sugar and mineral matters. Whey is decidedly 
less nutritious than skim milk or buttermilk, but is occasionally useful 
as a mild laxative drink for invalids. The so-called luliey cure is a means 
of treatment sometimes resorted to in continental Europe in cases of dys- 
pepsia, especially when occurring in gourmands. Its range of usefulness 
is much the same as the grape cure. As in the grape cure, large allow- 
ance must be made for the favorable influence of the open air and exer- 
cise which form a part of the regimen. 

Home-made Whey. — Whey may be made at home by cooking sweet 
milk with some acid material, such as vinegar, lemon juice, sour wine or 



338 ANIMAL Al^B FISH FOODS 

cream of tartar, or even with sour milk. Such whey differs but little in 
composition from regular cheese whey. ^Tresh curds and whey" is an 
old-fashioned dish still used to some extent, though less common than it 
was when cheese making was regularly carried on as a home industry. 
According to Hutchison, whey has the following composition: 

Water 93.64 per cent 

Protein 0.82 '' " 

Fat 0.24 " " 

Sugar 4.65 " " 

Mineral Matter 0.65 " " 



BONNYCLABBER. — Bonny clabber is soured milk, in which the curd and 
whey are served in the same dish and usually eaten with the addition of 
sugar. Curds and whey and junket are milk, coagulated by the addition 
of rennet. Sometimes the whey is removed and used as a food for inva- 
lids and children. 

JUNKET.— A favorite dish for invalids and for general use is prepared 
by adding rennet to milk and allowing it to stand undisturbed until it 
thickens or coagulates- — that is, until the casein is precipitated. If the 
process is carefully carried out, a thick, custard-like product results. If, 
however, it is stirred, the casein readily breaks up and separates from the 
whey. There are a number of preparations of rennet on the market de- 
signed especially for making junket, all of them giving satisfactory re- 
sults. 

KUMISS. — Kumiss is a milk preparation of considerable antiquity. 
Books written early in the thirteenth century hint of its existence almost 
as far back as the dawn of Christianity. Kumiss is made by fermenting 
mare's milk. The home of kumiss is in the steppes of European Russia 
and of central and southwestern Asia. It is made by tribes of nomadic 
Tartars from the milk of the hardy mares of the steppes. They add spe- 
cial yeast ferments to the milk, which liberate carbon dioxid, which gives 
to kumiss its sparkling or effervescent qualities. The flavor differs with 
the process of manufacture. This beverage contains. from one to two per 
cent of alcohol and less than one per cent of lactic acid. The casein is 
somewhat modified during the process of fermentation. 

KEPHTR.— Kephir(19) is, as it were, a spurious kumiss and was first 
produced in the Caucasus Mountains from cow's milk, fermented with 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 339 

kepliir grains* which contain a special ferment. The mode of prepara- 
tion is somewhat as follows: Cow's or goat's milk is put into a container 
and coagidated with a piece of calf's or sheep's stomach. The container 
is agitated from time to time, more milk being added as the former co- 
agulates. In the process of time, yellowish bodies of a seed-like character 
mid about the size of a small pea are formed in the mass. These small 
bodies arc the result of tlie fungus-like kephir grains which were orig- 
inally added to the milk and which are essential for the production of the 
beverage. When ready to make kephir one of these small grains is soaked 
in a small quantity of milk until it swells up or is "ripe." The ripened 
grain is then put into the milk, previously warmed, which is to be fer- 
mented. Lactic and alcoholic fermentation begins in a few hours and is 
allowed to proceed from one to three days. Kephir, as previously stated, 
is not kumiss. It may be regarded as bearing much the same relation to 
kumiss as margarin does to butter. Kephir contains nearly two per cent 
alcohol and probably has, for all practical purposes, the same nutritive 
qualities and value as knmiss, but it is not genuine kumiss. 

Double Fermentation in Kumiss and Kephir. — A double fermen- 
tation takes place during the brewing of kumiss and kephir. The sugar 
of milk is partly converted into lactic acid by lactic fermentation. In 
part a vinous fermentation takes place similar to that which occurs in the 
making of wine. 

The lactic fermentation begins first and lasts longer. It is the aim of 
the kumiss maker to retard the lactic fermentation as much as possible 
and to promote the vinous fermentation. 

It has been found that mare's milk is a much better medium for this 
double fermentation than is the milk of the cow, and this is so, oddly 
enough, for the very reasons which make mare's milk a poorer food than 
cow's milk. Mare's milk contains less casein and fat than cow's milk, 
but has more sugar. The sugar of mare's milk lends itself more readily 
to lactic acid fermentation than the sugar of cow's milk does. That cow's 
milk is richer in fats is a disadvantage to the process of fermentation, 



1 Kephir grains resemble little fragments of cauliflower. Their fermentative power 
appears to be entirely due to the saccharomyces mycoderma. In addition to this, they 
contain lactic acid producing organisms. The so-called bacterium dispora Caucasica, 
which they contain, does not appear to play any essential rftle in the process, unless, 
perhaps, it helps to liquefy the precipitated caseinogen. For a full account of the 
history of kephir and mode of preparation see "Le Kephir," by Padwyssotsky (Paris: 
C. Naud, 1902). This monograph contains a full bibliography. 



340 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

since there is apt to be produced from it small quantities of butyric acid, 
which is extremely irritating to the stomach. 

Hutchison's description of the chemical changes taking place in milk 
during the process of double fermentation is worth consideration. Part 
of the sugar is changed by the lactic ferment into lactic acid. A very 
little of the protein is eaten up by the vinous ferment; and simulta- 
neously this ferment acting on the sugar creates from the latter a small 
quantity of alcohol and a large quantity of carbonic acid gas. Through 
this process the milk sours and becomes effervescent with a small alco- 
holic content. Moreover, the lactic acid precipitates the casein in flocculi 
just as in the ordinary souring of milk. 

A most important factor in the process of making kumiss is the neces- 
sity of constant stirring. By this agency, oxygen is given access to the 
liquid, and in addition the precipitated casein is broken up by this agi- 
tation into very minute particles (20). To this condition of the casein 
is due in large part the ease with which this beverage can be digested. 
In the process of fermentation at least a small proportion of the casein 
seems to be changed into soluble products by means of what may be 
termed spontaneous (21) digestion, for it is known that a little peptone 
exists in ordinary kephir. 

The maker of kumiss is familiar with the gradual nature of the fer- 
mentation processes. Even after the liquid has been fermenting for 
twelve hours, the kumiss still lacks the agreeable twang; it is still weak 
and has just turned. But after the lapse of twenty-four hours, or even 
longer, nearly all of the sugar has been changed, and the appetizing 
kumiss, thin, sour, with lively effervescence, has been evolved. After 
reaching this stage, kumiss can be stored for indefinite periods and can 
be relied upon not to change to any appreciable extent. 

YOGHOORT.— Yoghoort (or Janert lactic acid bacteria), which is found 
in the market as a material for making a milk beverage, consists of three 
bacteria, viz. : Bacillus hulgaricus, which produces lactic acid, a lactic acid 
streptococcus and Bacteria lactii acid guntheri. Skim milk is boiled 
or pasteurized, cooked and inoculated with these bacteria and allowed to 
stand for some time in a warm place to facilitate their growth. Later it 
is cooled and will keep for some time on ice. 

Composition of YoGirftoRT. — The composition of yoghoort is: 

Protein T.40 Salts 1.38 

Sugar 9.40 Alcohol 0.20 

Fats Y.20 Lactic Acid 0.80 



MILK AND MILK rUODUCTS 341 

Yoghoort is very digestible, inasmuch as the caseiu and albumin con- 
tained therein are rendered soluble as peptones and albumoses, and the 
lime salts are in solution to the extent of OS per. cent 

it has been claimed by Metchnikotl" that the great age attained by the 
Bulgarian peasants is due, in part, to the long and continued use of sour 
milk products. 

MATZOON. — Matzoon is another sour milk product, introduced into this 
country from Armenia. This product is fermented by lactic acid fermen- 
tation and enriched by the addition of cream. *' 

LEBEN OR YAOURT.— Leben or yaourt is the product of milk coagu- 
lated by moya, a special ferment. The following process is used: The 
desired quantity of cow's milk is boiled down to one-half its volume. 
After being cooled to 113° F., the moya ferment is added. The con- 
tainer is kept at a uniform temperature of about 68° F. for from eight 
to ten hours. During this time it should be protected from draughts. 
At the end of this period the fluid is cooled and is then ready for use. 
In consistence it is thick and creamy, having masses of coagulated 
casein. It is agreeably acid to the taste and many people find it a most 
desirable food. 

BUTTER.— Butter is an animal food of very great importance. It is 
the most easily digested and assimilated of all animal foods. The reason 
why it is so easily digested is because its melting point is low as com- 
pared with other animal fats. It is an exceedingly valuable food and a 
source of fuel value in debilitating diseases such as phthisis, diabetes, etc. 
The trophodjTiamic and trophotherapeutic value of butter is fully con- 
sidered in Volume I, (chapter XIV. The production of butter in the 
United States, according to Census in 1909, was 1,994,650,610 pounds, 
valued at $422,861,790. 

CHEESE. — Cheese is a very ancient form of food. In fact, its origin 
and mode of manufacture are lost in the mists of antiquity. Cheese as 
a foodstuff was used by the Israelites, Greeks and Romans thousands of 
years prior to the Christian era. Back and beyond these early days the 
stomach of various animals was, and in some countries still is, used as a 
container for the storage and transport of liquids. It is within the bounds 
of a possibility that the discovery of cheese was an accident arising out of 
the storage of milk in stomachs which were too fresh or were not properly 
freed of mucous membrane containing rennin. A small piece of veil or 
rennet (which is contained in the fourth stomach of the calf^ about one 
and one-half inches in diameter is said to coagulate enough milk to make 
sixty pounds of cheese. 



342 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



The Making of Cheese. — It will be unnecessary to repeat here all 
that has been said in the preceding pages concerning the action of rennin 
upon milk. Cheese making, however, depends upon the activity of ren- 
nin, chymosin or labferment, as the enzyme is frequently called. A milk 
rich in fat requires more rennet than a poor milk. An excess of rennet 



BUTTER 



VA TER: II. . FAT: 650 




CREAM CHEESE 



IV/"^^ ...^^^ ^PROTEIN: 25.9 



.CARBO- 
HYDRATES: 2.4 



fiROTEM./.O^ ^ASH:3.0 

FUEL VALUE: FUEL VALUE: 



B4I0 CALORIES PER POUND ^^^^'^^ARBOHYDRm^ : 4 3 ^^SO CALORIES PER POUND 



ASH-I.e- 





^ INFANT FOODS fat:i.o-^ ■^protein : 20.9 Mil k powder 

(MILK AN^DJTARCHES) FUEL^ALUE: ^^^^^ SHIM MILK 




TEIN:B.6 



n 



HEATER :3.0^,(C:' 



510 CALORIES PER POUND 

FAT: 3.1 



ARBO- 
HYDRATES: 60.2 



ASH: 2.1 



ASH:e.O 




PROTEIN: 34.0 



CARBO- 
HYDRATES: 51.9 



1780 CALORIES PER POUND 



47/5 CALORIES PER POUND 



Fig. 24. — Percentage Composition and Fuel Value Per Pound of Butter, Cheese 
AND Other Milk Products. The constituents are expressed in per cent, the fuel 
values in calories per pound. (Bull. No. 363, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



causes the curd to be less adhesive, tougher and drier, communicating an 
unpleasant flavor and delays the ripening of the cheese. 

Cheese is manufactured through the precipitation by the rennet of the 
casein and cream of milk as a curd. It may be made from the milk of 
any animal, but fresh cow's milk is chiefly used. 

The precipitate contains most of the casein and fat, besides some milk 
sugar, sodium chlorid, alkalin and earthy phosphates. The whey or 
liquid is strained off; the curd is pressed into shapers in moulds and the 



MILK AND MTIVK PRODUCTS 343 

cheeses are frequently turned over at stated periods to facilitate the com- 
plete drainage of the whey so that the moisture may be evenly distributed 

and «::radiiully (n-aponited. 

In the ordinary process of cheese making in the United States, the 
casein is coagulated by the addition of rennet to fresh cow's milk brought 
to a temperature of about 106° F. The batch, while still warm, is beaten 
with a mechanical stirrer to break the chnnks of the curd into small 
pieces. It is then transferred to cloths often contained in moulds, and 
when pressure is applied the whey is squeezed out in a press. 

When the cheese has become solid it is removed from the moulds, 
stored in well aired rooms and allowed to season while the flavor develops 
under the action of bacteria. During the process of ripening, the flavor 
is greatly improved and there is also an increased solubility of the pro- 
teins with the formation of aromatic compounds. 

Milks must be ripened before the rennet will act. This is brought 
about by an addition of a certain amount of lactic acid which later assists 
in the ripening of the cheese. Some cheese experts claim that the fat test 
is not a good basis upon which to purchase milk for cheese factories as 
the cheese-making value of milk depends largely upon the amount of 
casein ; but it has been shown that milk which is high in fat is also, as a 
rule, high in casein. 

Varieties of Cheeses — Soft Cheeses. — Cheeses are made soft or 
hard according to temperature and pressure used in their manufacture. 
Soft cheeses are made by precipitating the curd at a low temperature and 
using very slight pressure in the after treatment. 

Good examples of soft cheese are: 

English cream cheese, which contains 50 to TO per cent of fat and 
20 to 30 per cent casein. 

Cottage cheese (pot cheese, green cheese) is the simplest form of 
cheese. It consists simply of a fresh coagulum of the milk, made with or 
without the addition of cream and forms a very nutritious and palatable 
food. Composition water, 40 per cent ; protein, 25 per cent ; fat, 28 per 
cent ; sugar, 2.5 per cent ; ash, 5 per cent. 

Neufchdtel has about 41 per cent fat and 17.5 casein. 

Camemhert is a soft cheese of a buttery consistency covered wnth a 
reddish brown mould which is usually associated with excellence of flavor 
and texture. The composition of this variety of cheese is as follows: 
Water, 48 per cent ; casein, 25 per cent ; fat, 21 per cent, and mineral mat- 
ter, about 5 per cent. 



344 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

Brie is a French cheese, quite similar to Camemhert in its consistency 
and composition. It has a strong odor suggestive of decomposition. 

Limburger was first made in Belgium. Most of this variety sold in 
the United States is made in New York and Wisconsin. It has a very 
disagreeable putrefactive odor. It has the following composition : Casein, 
25 per cent; fat, 34 per cent; water, 35 per cent; sugar, ash, etc., 5 per 
cent. 

Hard Cheeses. — Hard cheeses are made by precipitating the casein 
at a high temperature, 106° F., and subjecting the cheese to greater pres- 
sure in the after treatment. There are many varieties of hard cheese. A 
good sample is Stilton, made from new milk with cream added. This 
variety shows, upon analysis, casein, 20 to 35 per cent; fat, 42 to 45 per 
cent. It is similar to ripened Roquefort in food value and composition. 

Cheddar is a hard cheese made from the entire milk. It contains 
casein, 27 per cent, and fat, 25 per cent. It was first made at Cheddar, 
England. The successive steps in making this cheese are : setting, cutting, 
heating, cheddaring, grinding, salting, pressing and curing. This cheese 
is ripened at a temperature of 70° F., requiring from four to six weeks. 
When made from whole milk it is called full cream cheese. If part of the 
cream is removed it is termed Cheddar cheese. Our American factory 
cheese is of the English Cheddar type. American cheese made from whole 
milk contains casein, 20 to 36 per cent ; fat, 20 to 35 per cent. 

Gorgonzola is an excellent Italian cheese manufactured in the north 
of Italy. It has a rich, pungent flavor. It is streaked with white, bluish 
veins, from the mold penicillium glaucum, which penetrates the mass. 
Gorgonzola contains about 26 per cent of casein ; the same amount of fat. 

Roquefort is a peculiar hard cheese made from the milk of ewes and 
contains about 85 per cent casein and 2 to 3 per cent of fat. A great 
change takes place during the process of ripening, which occurs in cold 
cellars where it is kept for some eight to ten weeks — the fat percentage 
increases to 32 per cent and the casein diminishes to 43 per cent. 

Fresh, Cooked and Skim-milk Cheeses. — The average fresh cheese 
contains about the same ratio of protein and fat as are found in milk. 
More than one-fourth is protein and one-third fat. 

Comparative Food Value of Cheeses. — For the purpose of show- 
ing the comparative ^ood value of different varieties of cheese, we give 
the table of analysis prepared by Pearmain, Chattoway and Moor : ^ 



iThe Analyst, July. 1804, p. 146. 



MILK AND MILK PKODUCTS 



345 



THE COMPOSITION OF CHEESE. PERCENTAGES 



Name 



Water 



Nitrogen 



Casein 



Fat 



Aah 



Valenta 
Test 

C.C.J5 



Reichert 
C.C.yV 



Knplisli duHldjir. . 
Canadian Cheddar 
American Cheddar 

Gorgonzola 

Dutch 

Gruyere 

Stilton 

Cheshire 

Double Gloucester 

Camembert 

Parmesan 

Roquefort 

Double Cream 

York Cream 

Bondon 

Cheddar, average. 
American, average 



33.S 
33.3 

29.8 

40.3 

33.9 

41.8 

37.6 

(28.2 

\35.7 

19.4 

21.2 

37.8 

31.6 

33.1 

37.4 

1 47.9 

U3.4 

29.6 
57.6 
63.1 
39.5 
33.5 
27.5 



4.20 
4.34 
4.76 
4.36 
4.06 
5.11 
4.58 
4.93 
4.49 
4.73 
4.14 
4.03 
4.16 
4.99 
4.50 
3.43 
3.83 

4.45 
3.14 
2.76 
1.48 
4.30 
4.60 



26.7 
27.6 
20.3 
27.7 
25.8 
32.5 
29.1 
31.3 
28.7 
21.1 
36.3 
25.7 
26.5 
31.8 
28.3 
21.8 
24.4 

28.3 
19.0 
17.9 
9.4 
27.4 
29.7 



30.5 
30.6 
33.9 
26.1 
26.7 
10.6 
22.5 
28.6 
31.8 
42.2 
45.8 
31.3 
35.3 
23.5 
28.1 
41.9 
22.6 

30.3 
39.3 
6.5 
24.4 
29.0 
30.4 



4.1 
3.6 
2.7 
5.3 
4.6 
6.3 
6.5 
4.7 
3.7 
2.6 
2.9 
4.2 
4.4 
5.0 
4.6 
4.7 
3.8 

6.7 
3.4 
1.4 
.7 
4.0 
4.5 



31.0 
41.5 
47.5 
26.5 
25.0 
40.0 
49.0 
37.5 
41.0 
38.5 
45.5 
43.0 
47.0 
38.0 
41.0 
32.0 
33.0 

i9.0 
40.0 
41.0 
42.0 



26.4 
24.0 
26.2 
22.1 
23.6 
27.0 
23.0 
30.0 
31.1 
29.0 
32.0 
31.6 
31.8 
31.4 
32.3 
31.0 
35.0 

36.8 
31.3 
29.0 
29.4 
25.9 



Cooked cheeses {Emmenthal or Gruyere, ordinarily known in this 
country as Swiss cheese, Parmesan) are excellent foods. 

Albumin Fats Carbohydrates Ash Calories 

Emmenthal .... 28.37 28.49 1.43 3.69 400 

Parmesan 39.34 18.97 1.95 4.72 357 

The percentage of albumin is exceptionally high, which makes these 
varieties the most nitrogenous foods known, meats and vegetables being 
outdistanced. Fats are very abundant, for which reason the food value 
of the Emmenthal variety, being made of whole milk, exceeds that of the 
Parmesan. 

Skim-milh cheeses are made from skimmed milk, or a mixture of 
whole and skimmed milk. There is no legal standard for such cheeses, 
although they contain less fat than cheese made from whole milk. The 
difference is not so great when partly skimmed milk is used. In Edam, 
Gloucester or Cheshire cheese the fat in a ripened cheese amounts to 25 
or 30 per cent. Cheese made from machine skimmed milk may contain 
no more than 5 per cent fat. Such cheese is usually dry and tough or 
crumbly, instead of being soft, smooth and velvety to the feel. The table 



346 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



of analysis by Bell shows the proportion of contents of various substances 
not contained in the foregoing table, e.g., lactic acid, fatty acids and com- 
mon salt : 

COMPOSITION OF CHEESE, PERCENTAGES 



Variety 



Stilton 

American Red . . . . 
American Pale . . . . 

Roquefort 

Gorgonzola 

Cheddar (medium) 

Gruyere 

Cheshire. 

Gloucester (single). 
Dutch 



23.57 
28.63 
31.55 
32.26 
31.85 
35.60 
33.66 
37.11 
35.75 
41.30 



39.13 
38.24 
35.93 
34.38 
34.34 
31.57 
30.69 
30.58 
28.35 
22.78 



32.35 
29.64 

28.83 
27.16 
27.88 
28.16 
30.67 
26.93 
31.10 
28.25 






1.24 



0.27 
1.32 
1.35 
.45 
.27 
.86 
.31 
.57 



3.51 
4.49 
3.42 

4.88 
4.58 
4.22 
4.71 
4.42 
4.49 
7.10 



J=! O o 

^(5 



pin 



51.19 
53.57 
52.49 
50.75 
20.39 
49.02 
46.26 
48.78 
44.12 
38.80 



52.50 
52.12 
53.34 
54.24 
53.09 
50.49 
47,07 
50.84 
45.24 
42.41 






.67 
.72 
0.82 
3.04 
2.11 
1.43 
.81 
1.69 
1.28 
4.45 



Fatty Acids 
IN THE Fat 



Solu- 
ble 



4.42 
4.26 
4.81 
4.91 
4.40 
4.55 
4.41 
5.55 
6.68 
5.84 



Insol- 
uble 



88.96 
89.65 

88.49 
88.70 
89.18 

88.75 
88.97 
87.76 
86.89 
87.58 



Flavor of Cheeses. — The flavoring of cheese depends largely upon 
the particular species of germ which has found access to it during the 
process of ripening, each particular variety producing definite chemical 
bodies which impart to it its peculiar characteristics. It is well known 
that by the employment of a variety of yeasts, an equal variety of wines 
can be made from the same kind of grapes. The bouquet and character 
of the resulting wines differ widely. Turning to account the principle 
analogous to that made use of by wine makers, the manufacturers of 
cheese will in future doubtless discard their old-fashioned rules. Hutchi- 
son writes that various European countries, including England, have 
already instituted the new regime. 

This would best be carried on by means of a laboratory equipment 
for each factory. Then, instead of a special cheese coming from a cer- 
tain locality. Brie, Neufchdtel, Limhurger, Gorgonzola and other varieties 
will all come from the same factory, the characteristic taste and odor of 
each variety depending upon the individual culture that produces them. 
It can be easily imagined that cheeses not now in the market may in the 
future be made by the elaboration of this method. 

General Chemistry of Cheese. — Whether Dr. Hutchison's fore- 
cast will ever be verified or not, there is little doubt that the gross chem- 
istry of cheese will ever be much altered. After a careful study of the 
tables showing analyses and composition, we conclude that cheese is a food 
compound consisting essentially of protein and fat, and one will not be 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 347 

far wrong in estimating cheese as one-third water, one-third fat and one- 
third nitrogenous matter. There is eonsiderahle mineral matter present 
in cheese, consisting principally of the salts of lime. In some cheeses we 
find a small amount of milk sugar. 

The nitrogenous matter consists principally of proteins, but by no 
means entirely so. Stutzer estimates the following different forms in 
which nitrogen occurs in Camemhert: 

Total N —2.9 per cent 

N as annnonia — 0.386 " " 

" amids —0.117 " " 

" albnmoses and peptone. . . . — 0.885 " " 

" casein and albumin — 0.307 " " 

" indigestible forms —0.115 " " 

The exact proportions of these different nitrogenous bodies will vary 
considerably in different cheeses, but it is well to note the large amount 
of non-protein nitrogen present, which must be allowed for in an estimate 
of the nutritive value of cheese. 

Nutritive Value aisd Digestive Qualities of Cheese. — Cheese is 
a most valuable storage food, rich in flesh-forming and energy- producing 
material. In fact, it is so rich in nitrogen and fat that a meal of bread 
and cheese supplies the needs of the system as well as an elaborate meal 
from soup to nuts. Cheese is a highly nutritious foodstuff. An infiltra- 
tion of cheese with the fat which it contains must always render it an 
article of diet not easily digested, for the fat forms a water-proof coating 
which prevents the contact of the digestive juices with the casein. There 
are many people with delicate stomachs who cannot digest cheese at all. 
It is, on the other hand, a most valuable diet for people who lead an active 
outdoor life, or those whose digestive organs are healthy. With others, 
especially those who lead sedentary lives, a small piece of cheese at the 
end of a meal acts as a stimulant to the digestive organs, calling forth the 
muscular activity of the stomach, stimulating an increased flow of the 
gastric juice ; to this extent it is an aid to digestion. To individuals who 
suffer from digestive disorders cheese is an enemy like any other indi- 
gestible article of food, and should be rigidly avoided. 

Another reason, probably, for the disagreeable effects which cheese is 
apt to produce in the stomach is that, in the process of ripening, small 
quantities of fatty acids are produced, which are always very irritating. 
The stomach is the only digestive organ where difficulty is experienced. 
Once in the intestine, it is absorbed as easily and completely as meat. 



348 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

For ease of digestion, cheese should be well chewed before being swal- 
lowed. It is a well-known fact that a hard mor§el of food is more easily 
pulverized than a soft one, and for this reason a hard piece of cheese is 
more easily digested than a moist piece. The best way to serve Cheddar 
and American cheese is to cook it with macaroni or some carbohydrate 
food which will facilitate its proper mastication and prompt digestion. 
Williams, on the "Chemistry of Cookery," alludes to the chemistry of 
casein and the solubility of its compounds with alkalies, averring that the 
bicarbonate of potash seems to combine with the casein of the cheese, 
bringing the latter into a soluble state. The amount of bicarbonate of 
potash which will cover a dime is sufficient to dissolve a quarter of a 
pound of cheese, if the latter be first chopped into fragments. By adding 
milk and eggs to the grated or chopped cheese, with which the bicarbonate 
of potash has been added, a very savory and highly nutritious and easily 
digested pudding can be prepared. 

There can be no doubt of the high nutritive value of cheese when one 
recalls that a pound of Cheddar cheese represents the total casein and 
most of the fat of a gallon of milk. We have already learned that cheese 
contains moisture one-third, nitrogenous matter one-third and fat one- 
third, in fairly equal proportions. The amount of moisture in lean beef 
is two-thirds, the balance being protein and fat, the former largely pre- 
dominating. Beef, as will readily be seen, contains less than half as much 
nourishment as the same weight of cheese. Williams fathers the asser- 
tion that from a caloric point of view 20 pounds of cheese contains as 
much nutriment as a sheep's carcass of 60 pounds. 

The fuel or caloric value of cheese as a foodstuff is high. A pound 
yields fully 2,000 calories of energy, which is more than three times the 
fuel value of a pound of moderately lean beef. Besides, a pound of 
cheese can be purchased at one-third the cost of three pounds of beef, 
which is its nutritive equivalent. 

Use of Cheese in the Invalid Diet. — Cheese has its place even in 
the sick room. It renders good service in all cases requiring a strong con- 
centrated nutriment, as in tuberculosis, neurasthenia, diabetes, convales- 
cence, etc. By its savory, piquant flavor it lends itself charmingly as a 
means of modifying the milk diet in an acceptable and effective manner, 
except in Bright's disease and cardiac disturbances. 

In dyspepsia, especially in the hyposthenic form, in enteritis and in 
enterocolitis, the easy assimilation of a certain quantity of the soft un- 
salted cheeses and their peptogenic and antiputrefactive elements is of 
decided value from a dietotherapeutic viewpoint. 



EGGS AND EGG rUODUCTS 349 

Subjection to Moulds — Resulting Flavor. — The types of cheese 
represented by the Cheshire, Canadian, American, English Cheddar, are 
subject to the action of certain yeast nionhls and fungous growths, the 
nature and intensity of behavior of which vary witli eacli particular 
brand. Their casein content is partially peptonized and partly trans- 
formed into a series of products more or less noxious, such as leucin, tyro- 
sin, amino-acids and ammonia, whence they derive their odors and savory 
qualities that give each cheese its peculiar taste. Thus modified, cheese 
preserves the qualities of its peptogenic and assimilable substances, i.e., 
diastase, secreted by the yeast, seems to continue within the intestines, 
aiding the digestion of casein, and thereby losing completely its character 
of an antifermentative and slightly toxic food. Such cheeses are not 
advisable as a food in dyspepsia, enterocolitis, arthritis, heart and liver 
troubles and in Bright's disease. 

Manufacture of Cheeses in America. — Of the cheeses manufac- 
tured in the United States, at least three-fourths are the ordinary Amer- 
ican cheese, while among other varieties are the types of foreign brands, 
such as Neufchdtel, Stilton, etc. New York and Wisconsin together pro- 
duce three-fourths of the entire output of this country. The 1909 census 
shows that not less than 320,532,000 pounds of cheese is made yearly in 
the United States. In 1910 Canada exported 186,000,000 pounds. 

EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS 

Varieties of Edible Eggs. — Eggs of birds are used for food in all parts 
of the world, and so far as is known, the eggs of every species of bird may 
be safely consumed for food. The eggs of domesticated birds are used 
for food to a very great extent, especially those of the barnyard fowls: 
chicken, guinea foivl, duchs, turkeys and geese. Pheasants and guinea 
hens' eggs are considered a delicacy. Turkey eggs are as mild as hens' 
eggs. The gminea fowl's e^g; is smaller but more delicate than the hen's 
Qgg. Goose eggs are well flavored, l^uck eggs arc very rich and both are 
heavy and oily. The eggs of wild birds, such as the woodcock, plover and 
partridge, are especially sought after. 

Besides the eggs of fowls and wild birds previously mentioned, the 
eggs of the turtle and terrapin are prized as a food as well as the eggs of 
fish. Shad roe, especially, and the eggs of the sturgeon, preserved in 
salt and known as caviare, are considered a delicacy in some countries {see 
page 303). As may be assumed, the eggs of the heron and other sea fowl 
have a fishy taste. 




Fig. 25. — Appearance of Different Grades of Eggs before the Candle. The illus- 
tration shows (a) fresh egg, (b) s^ale egg, (c) fungous spots" egg, (d) black 
rotten egg. These are enlarged one-third. (Yearbook U. S. Dept Agric 1911 
Plate XLIX.) ^ '' ' 

350 



EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS 



351 



Eggs, like milk, form a cumpleto food, that is, they contain tlic proper 
proportion of each of the fundamental food elements necessary to sustain 
and preserve life. Eggs and milk are the only examples of a complete 
food furnished by the animal kingdom. 

COiMPOSiTlON OF ECiGS,— Ilen.s' eggs are more largely consumed than 
those of other barnyard fowls and for this reason they will be referred 
to as the ''type" under discussion. A hen's egg of average size weighs 
about two ounces, the weight being distributed as follows: the shell 11 
parts, the white 58 parts, and the yolk 30 parts. The following table 
taken from Langworthy(22) shows the composition of the eggs of various 
fowls, both cooked and raw, and of white- and brown-shelled eggs, etc. 
AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF EGGS 





Refuse 


Water 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Car- 
bohy- 
drates 


Ash 


Fuel Value 




Calo- 
ries 
per 

pound 


Calo- 
ries 
per 100 
grams 


Hen: 
Whole egg as purchased . 
Whole egg, edible portion 
White 


Per ct. 
11.2 


Per ct. 
65.5 
73.7 
86.2 
49.5 

73.3 

65.6 

64.8 

60.8 
70.5 
87.0 
45.8 

57.7 
69.5 
86.3 
44.1 

63.5 
73.7 
86.3 
48.3 

60.5 

72.8 
86.6 
49.7 


Per ct. 
11.9 
13.4 
12.3 
15.7 

13.2 

11.8 

11.9 

12.1 
13.3 
11.1 
16.8 

12.9 
13.8 
11.6 
17.3 

12.2 
13.4 
11.5 
17.4 

11.9 
13.5 
11.6 
16.7 


Per ct. 

9.30 
10.50 

0.20 
33.30 

12.00 

10.80 

11.20 

12.50 

14.50 

0.03 

36.20 

12.30 

14.40 

0.02 

36.20 

9.70 
11.20 

0.03 
32.90 

9.90 
12.00 

0.03 
31.80 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 
0.9 
1.0 
0.6 
1.1 

0.8 

0.6 

0.7 

0.8 
1.0 
0.8 
1.2 

0.9 
1.0 
0.8 
1.3 

0.8 
0.9 
0.8 
1.2 

0.8 
0.9 
0.8 
1.2 


635 

720 

250 

1750 

765 

675 

695 

750 

860 

210 

1840 

760 

865 

215 

1850 

635 

720 

215 

1710 

640 

755 

215 

1655 


141 

160 

55 


Yolk 




378 


Whole egg boiled, edible 
portion 

White-shelled eggs as 
purchased 


10.7 
10.9 

13.7 


170 
150 


Bro^vn-shelled eggs as 
purchased 


154 


Duck: 
Whole egg as purchased . 
Whole egg, edible portion 
White 


166 

191 

46 


Yolk 




408 


Goose: 

Whole egg as purchased . 
Whole egg, edible portion 
White 


14.2 


164 

142 

47 


Yolk 




411 


Turkey: 
Whole egg as purchased . 
Whole egg, edible portion 
White 


13.8 


141 

160 
47 


Yolk . 




380 


Guinea Fowl: 
Whole egg as purchased . 
Whole egg, edible portion 
White 


16.9 


142 

167 

47 


Yolk 




367 









i52 



ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 



White of Egg. — A study of the above table will show that the egg 
consists mainly of protein and fat, besides water and some mineral mat- 
ter. The white of the egg consists of a solution of protein shut up in the 
interior of millions of cells. When the whites of eggs are beaten up, the 
walls of these cells are destroyed and the protein escapes. The digesti- 
bility of the egg white is increased thereby, in proportion as these cell 
walls are destroyed, since they offer a slight hindrance to the digestibility 
of the protein which they envelop. The protein of egg white is called egg 
alhumiriy but it would be an error to consider it a single substance, since 
it is a mixture of different proteins, some of which are compounds con- 
taining a carbohydrate group in their molecules (23). This has some 



mTjL. ^.€^lk. Jky4L. JL 





m 





i 




c 




f 



o 






BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE ^ 



Fig. 26.— What the Candle Shows.— Upper— (a) fresh egg, before the candle and 
out of the shell; (b) slightly stale egg, showing evidence of incubation, before 
the candle and out of the shell; (c) stale egg, showing a settled, flattened yolk and 
a thin white, before the candle and out of the shell; (d) egg with yolk beginning 
to adhere to shell, before the candle and out of the shell. 

Lower— (a) Qgg showing blood ring, before the candle and out of the shell; (b) cracked 
egg invaded by mold, before the candle and out of the shell; (c) white rot or 
addled egg, before the candle and out of the shell; (d) egg with a green white, 
before the candle and out of the shell. 



EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS 



353 



bearing on the use of eggs as a food in diabetics, which will be cnosidered 
in the dietotiierapy of this malady.* 

Yolk of Ego. — The yolk of the egg is the storehouse of nutriment 
for the young chick and has a different composition from the white. It 
contains less water and more solid matter of which fat predominates. 

General Percentage Composition of White and Yolk(24). — 
The general composition of the white and yolk is graphically contrasted 
in the following table ^ from Konig: 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF THE WHITE AND YOLK OF AN EGG 





Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Other 

Non Nitrogenous 

Matter 


Mineral 
Matter 


White. 


85.7 
50.9 


12.6 
16.2 


0.25 
31.75 


o;i3 


59 


Yolk 


1.09 



It will be readily observed that the yolk of the egg is the most nour- 
ishing. 

In discussing the composition of eggs, Power (Human Physiology) 
gives a separate analysis for each part. 

The white consists of albumin, 13 per cent; globulin, 0.134; salts, 
etc., 0.766; water, 86. The yolk contains vitellin (protein), 14.0 per 
cent; fat and lecithin, 30; nuclein, 1.5; cholesterin, 1.75; salts and color- 
ing matter, 0.75 ; water, 52. The average egg contains about 0.045 per 
cent of phosphorus; the white has only 0.031 ; the yolk 1.279 per cent in 
vitellin, lecithin, nuclein, phosphates and glycerophosphates. 

According to Konig one hundred parts of the ash of the white and 
yolk of egg have the following composition, viz. : 
Composition Yolk 

Potassium 9.29 

Sodium 5.87 

Lime 13.04 

Magnesium 2.13 

Oxid of Iron 1.65 

Phosphoric Acid 65.46 

Sulphuric Acid 

Fluorin 0.86 

Chlorin 1.95 



White 

31.41 

31.57 

2.78 

2.79 

0.57 

4.41 

2.12 

1.06 

28.82 



1 There are apparently four different proteins in e^jj white — Ovalbumin, con- 
albumin, ovomucin, and ovomucoid. The ov-albumin makes up the greater part of the 
white. Ovomucin and ovomucoid are glycoproteins and are only present in small 
amounts. 

2 For more recent analyses, which, however, do not differ essentially from the above, 
see a paper by Lebbin on the Nutritive Value of Eggs in the Therap. Monat«hefte, 
November, 1901. 



354 



a:n^imal and fish foods 



The yolk of the egg contains phosphorus in an organic state ; the same 
is true of iron. It also has an abundance of calcium, more than any other 
food except milk.. The great richness of the yolk in fat, together with 
phosphorus, iron and lime salts, makes it a peculiarly valuable food for 
young infants, particularly those suffering from rickets and malnutrition, 
for it is just these very compounds which such a child needs. 



ZS.7X ^^^725^5* azo^ 


















vs'^^/^r 







^.2'X i^^T-^^ ^S^y 



33.7X ^"^^ /-^X 
7X ^^^ "^^^ ^^ 




L'C/r'^/^A^C//J^^S£' 



ty///r£'^/P£4D 



Fig. 27. — Chemical Composition of Eggs as Compared with Milk, Beefsteak, 
Cream Cheese and White Bread. (Bull. 471, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



Eggs contain no free purin or purin-yielding substances and are there- 
fore a valuable dietetic adjunct where a purin-free diet is to be recom- 
mended in gout. 

There is no difference in the composition of eggs with a brown and 
eggs with a white shell. There is positively no ground for the belief that 
the former (25) are richer than the latter. 



EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS 355 

Comparative Nutritive Value of Eckjs and Mkat. — From the 
analysis table by Langworthy, it will be seen at a glance that eggs contain 
iilmost the same total of nutritive matter as meat, but at the same time 
they are relatively richer in fat and ])ooror in protein. Eggs are admira- 
bly adapted to chemically suppknnent a food rich in carbohydrate, of a 
fair protein content, but poor in fat. Such a food is found in rice and 
many of the cereals. The addition of eggs to these in the form of pud- 
dings makes a well-balanced complete food. 

DIGESTIBILITY OF EGGS.— The digestibility of eggs in the stomach 
depends largely upon the manner of cooking and the form in which they 
are ingested. In point of nutriment and digestibility, eggs rank very 
high indeed, yet it does not follow that they are good for everybody; on 
the contrary, some persons cannot digest them and they cause biliousness 
in another class. The digestibility depends largely upon the cooking. 
Kaw eggs are not so easily digested as when the white albumin is slightly 
coagulated. Some experiments have been conducted upon a healthy man 
to throw light upon this subject. Penzoldt(2G) ordered two eggs cooked 
in different ways and portions of the stomach contents were withdrawn 
at intervals and examined, with results given below taken from Hutchi- 
son, "Foods." 

2 eggs lightly boiled have left the stomach in 1% hours 

" raw have left the stomach in 2^4 " 

" poached — 5 grams of butter have left the stomach in. . 21/2 " 

" hard boiled have left the stomach in 3 " 

" as an omelette have left the stomach in 3 " 

This experiment of Penzoldt carries a convincing argument. It is 
surprising to find that slightly boiled eggs are more quickly disposed of 
by the stomach than raw eggs, but one must not jump at the conclusion 
that lightly boiled eggs are better suited to the stomach requiring rest than 
raw eggs; as a matter of fact, it is a question whether raw eggs are di- 
gested at all in the stomach, or are passed on to and through the duodenum 
to a large extent unchanged. Busch in "Virchow's Archives" reported 
the case of a woman who as the result of disease had an opening in the 
intestine a few inches from where the small intestine joins the duodenum. 
He found that when a raw egg was given by the mouth more than half of 
it escaped by this opening unchanged. 

Cooking of Eggs. — Eggs may be cooked in a great variety of ways, 
but in general the simplest methods of cooking are the best. If an egg 
is boiled two minutes the albumin next to the shell will l)e coagidated 



356 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

while the yolk will remain fluid. If it is boiled three minutes it will be 
termed soft boiled ; if boiled ten minutes it is hard boiled. The custom 
of some cooks of plunging an egg into boiling water and allowing it to 
remain for three minutes is not to be recommended. Eggs are much more 
evenly cooked if put into a vessel of boiling water (three eggs to a quart), 
covered and allowed to stand (not over a source of heat) for five minutes. 
The eggs will then be found soft boiled. A fried egg is hardest of all to 
digest, the undigestibility being increased by the frying in fat. Eaw eggs 
are laxative. Hard boiled eggs are constipating. 

A poached egg^ or one which is boiled until the white is just set, is 
easiest of digestion. The digestibility of an egg diminishes in proportion 
to the hardness to which it is cooked. To properly poach an egg, a small 
quantity of vinegar should be added to the salt water in which they are 
cooked, in order to assist in the coagulation of the albumin, thereby pre- 
venting loss. 

ENERGY PROPERTIES OF EGGS— The analysis by Langworthy, quoted 
on a previous page, graphically shows the chemical elements of an egg and 
demonstrates that their nutritive value is due almost entirely to protein 
and fat. One egg contains enough of these to yield seventy calories of 
energy, equal in fuel value to half a tumbler of good milk or one and one- 
half ounces of fat meat. The absence of carbohydrates prevents eggs from 
being a complete food, therefore the combination of ham and eggs, both 
lacking in sugar and starch, is not a well-balanced ration; but French 
toast or egg on toast are much nearer to a satisfactory food. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS.— The preservation of eggs by cold storage 
will be found under ''Cold Storage.'' See Volume II, chapter on "The 
Preservation of Foods." 

EGG PRODUCTS. — There are only a few artificial egg preparations. 

Ova. — Ova consists of eggs dried at a low temperature so that they 
are capable of being redissolved. The compound consists of solids, 90.5 
per cent, and ash, 4.1 per cent. It is put up in packets, each representing 
one egg. 

Desiccated Eggs. — Desiccated eggs are prepared by spreading the 
eggs over the surface of a slowly revolving cylinder heated with a current 
of warm air. The semi-liquid eggs can be dried in vacuum. From the 
standpoint of wholesomeness and healthfulness there is no objection to 
desiccated eggs if made from fresh, wholesome eggs. The product is used 
largely by bakers and has the advantage of keeping, under conditions 
where fresh eggs are not available. 

Egg Substitutes. — Egg substitutes are manufactured from the 



EGGS AND EGG PKODUCTS 



357 



casein and albumin of milk mixed with flour to form a paste or powder. 
These substitutes are used chieHy by confectioners. Some of the egg sub- 
stitutes are made from conunercial albumin, which is obtained from the 
blood of slaughtered animals. When collected, the albumin is precipi- 
tated, washed and refined. It is a fair substitute for the white of an egg, 
but as it contains no cellular membranes, such as occur in eggs, it does 
not, when beaten, make a good foam. 




/ 



\ 



\ 






//X^-5-^Y^^/ 
















y 



y^.y^ l^^^Tl^/? 










su^ST/Tur£: 



^^.^/^/^^7-^^/V 73Sf^ 



3S,0^ /^y^r 0.3^ 

s:3^ 



^ o^/^ao/iy^o/f*/iT^ 



l^.tS-^y^S/f 



»p./X/-/^/ 




Fig. 28.— Chemical Composition of Wholk Egg, Egg White. Egg Yolk, Desiccated 
Egg AM) Egg Substitutk. (Bull. No. 471, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



358 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

Casein is also used by confectioners as a substitute for eggs. It is pre- 
cipitated from skim milk, by acetic acid; dried, washed and powdered. 
A solution of casein can be whipped into a foam like the white of an egg, 
but it does not make a stiff foam and consequently has little aerating 
power. 

PiDAN — Chinese Presekved Eggs. — The Chinese and other Orien- 
tal people preserve eggs, not necessarily to keep them unchanged, but to 
make various new substances — a process analogous to the production of 
cheese from milk. The products have been little studied and the litera- 
ture on the subject is therefore limited. The following changes have 
been shown to take place during the formation of pidan from fresh ducks' 
eggs: (a) water in large quantities has been transferred from the white 
to the yolk, and water has been lost from the white to the outside; (h) the 
ash and the alkalinity of ash have increased in a way similar to that of 
other eggs preserved in alkali; (c) the ether extract has decreased and 
its acidity become high ; (d) both total and lecithin phosphorus have de- 
creased; (e) the non-coagulable nitrogen has increased and also the am- 
moniacal nitrogen, the latter to an extraordinary degree, and the amino- 
nitrogen is high. From these changes the conclusion is drawn that de- 
composition of the egg protein and of the phospholipoids has taken place. 
The production of pidan from the fresh eggs is probably brought about 
through the agency of the alkali, bacteria and enzymes. 

Recently the Department of Home Economics of the University of 
Chicago conducted an extensive research into the merits of this method of 
preserving eggs. According to extensive examination conducted by Blunt 
and Wang (27), ^^pidan is made on a factory scale from ducks' eggs. The 
latter are kept in an infusion of black tea, lime, salt and wood ashes, obvi- 
ously an alkaline solution, for nearly half a year, much as eggs are pre- 
served in solutions of sodium silicate in this country. They are then 
drained and coated with rice hulls, whereupon they are ready for the 
market. The taste of the pidan is characteristic and the odor markedly 
ammoniacal. There is a tendency for uninformed persons to class such 
products unreservedly with what are commonly termed rotten eggs. This 
may not be justifiable. Pidan has no odor of hydrogen sulphid and we 
are assured does not closely resemble so-called decomposed eggs. Note- 
worthy chemical changes do, however, attend the long storage process in 
the formation of pidan. The Chicago investigators state that water in 
large quantities has been transferred from the white to the yolk and water 
has been lost from the white to the outside. The ash and the alkalinity 
of ash have increased in a way similar to that of other eggs preserved in 



EGGS AND EGG niODUCTS 359 

alkali. The ether extract has decreased and its acidity is high. Both 
total and lecithin phosphorus have decreased." 

KEFEKENCES 

1. Wktseller and Gieben. Gen. Tydsch. voor Nederl. Indie, 1901, 

xli, p. 270. 

2. Bailkv, E. II. S. Source and Cheniisiry ul" Kuods, HIakiston, 

Pliila., ,1. of A. M. A. Assn., vol. Ix, p. 8'J4. 
Fisii. Am. Vet. Rev., 41, p. 178. 

3. Hutchison. Foods and Dietetics, p. J)'5. 

4. KuTsciiKR, F. Ztschr. Nah. Genussniittel, x, 528. 

5. U. S. Dep. Agi-ic, Bull. 21, p. 96. 

G. Holt. Diseases of Children, 1899, p. 153. 

7. Cheadle. Artificial Feeding of Infants, 2nd ed., p. 115. 

8. U. S. Dep. Agric, Farmers' Bull. 452. 

9. Fitch. Some Neglected History of North Carolina. 

10. Bailey, E. H. S. Source, Chemistry and Use of Food Products. 

11. Van Slyke, Lucius L., Chemist of N. Y. Agric. Exper. Sta. 

(Average analysis of cow's milk based on 5,552 analyses of 
American cov^^'s milk.) 

12. Hopkins, F. Gowland. Paper" read before the Royal Soc. Med., 

October, 1913. 

13. Andrews. J. Trop. Med., 1913, p. 370. 

14. Osborne and Mendel. Science, 1911, pp. 722-730. 

15. , Ferry and Wakeman. J. Biol. Chem., 1913. 

16. Bailey, E. H. S. Source and Chemistry of Foods. 

17. Am. Assn. Med. Milk Com., Pub. Health Rep., vol. xxvii. No. 24. 

18. Rosenau, M. J. On the Milk Question. 

19. Rothschild. L'Allaitement, Par., 1898. 

Struve, H. Nature, xxx, 216 (from Deutsche chem. Gesellsch. zu 
Berl., 1884). 

20. Hutchison. Food and Sanitation, May 22, 1897. 

21. . Food and Sanitation, May 27, 1897. (Acid albumin, 

albumose and peptone.) 

22. Langworthy. U. S. Dep. Agric, Farmers' Bull. 128. 

23. EicHHOLZ. J. Physiol., 1898, xxiii, 163. 
. U. S. Dep. Agric, Farmers' Bull. 128. 

24. Langworthy, C. F. Eggs and Their Uses as Food, U. S. Dep. 

Agric, Farmers' Bull. 128. 

25. . Ibid. 



360 AKIMAL A:N"D FISH FOODS 

26. Penzoldt. Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. 

27. BiiUNT, Katharine, and WaKg, C. C. Chinese Preserved Eggs — 

Pidan, J. Biol. Chem., 1916, 28, 125. Abstr. J. A. M. A., Jan. 
6, 1917, p. QQ, Ed. J. A. M. A., Feb. 10, 1917. 

BIBLIOGKAPHY 
Meats 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Materials, 

U. S. Dep. Agric, Off. Exper. Sta., Bull. 28, revised. 
Emmett and Grindley. A Preliminary Study of the Effect of Cold 

Storage upon Beef and Poultry, J. of Indust. & Engin. Chem., 

1909, vol. i, pp. 413-436, 580-597. 
Grindley. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking upon 

the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat, U. S. Dep. 

Agric, Off. Exper. Sta., Bull. 193, 1907. 
Leighton and DouGiiAS. The Meat Industry and Meat Inspection. 
Egberts. Annual Production of Animals for Food and Per Capita 

Consumption of Meat in the U. S., U. S. Dep. Agric, Bur. of 

Animal Indust, 22nd Annual Keport, 1905, pp. 277-290. 
Trowbridge and Grindley. Proteins of Beef Flesh, J. Am. Chem. 

Soc, 1906, vol. xxviii, pp. 469-505. 
Wilder. The Modern Packing House. 
Wiley and Bigelow. Preserved Meats, U. S. Dep. Agric, Bur. Chem., 

Bull. 13, Part 10. 

Poultry and Game 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Materials, 

U. S. Dep. Agric, Off. Exper. Sta., Bull. 28, revised. 
•MiLNER. Experiments on the Digestibility of Fish and Poultry, Storrs 

(Conn.) Agric Exper. Sta., Seventeenth Annual Report, 1905, 

pp. 116-142. 
Pennington. Studies of Poultry from the Farm to the Consumer, U. S. 

Dep. Agric, Bur. Chem., Circular 64, 1910. 
. The Hygienic and Economic Results of Refrigeration in the 

Conservation of Poultry and Eggs, Am. J. Pub. Health, 1913, 

vol. ii, pp. 840-848. 
- — — • . The Handling of Dressed Poultry a Thousand Miles from 

the Market, U. S. Dep. Agric, Yearbook for 1912, pp. 285, 

292, 1913. 



BIBLIOGRAPnY 361 

TiBBLEs. Foods; Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 
Wiley, et al. A Preliminary Study of tho Effects of Cold Storage on 

^ggs, Quail and Chickens, U. S. Dep. Agric., Bur. Chem., Bull 

115, 1008. 

Fish and Shellfish 

GoBHAM. Sanitary Eegulation of the Oyster Industry, Am. J. Pub. 
Health, 1912, vol. ii, pp. 77, 85. 

Lanqworthy. Fish as Food, U. S. Dep. Agric, Farmers' Bull. 85, re- 
vised. 

Millard. Salmon Fishing in Pacific Waters, Outlook for February, 
1910, pp. 171-181. 

MiLNEB. Digestibility of Fish and Poultry, Storrs (Conn.) Agric 
. Exper. Sta., Seventeenth Annual Keport, 1905, pp. 116-142. 

Smith. Oysters; The World's Most Valuable Water Crop. National 
Geographic Magazine, vol. xxiv, 1913, pp. 257-281. 

. A Study of the Influence of Cold-Storage Temperatures upon 

the Chemical Composition and Nutritive Value of Fish, Bio- 
chemical Bull., 1913, vol. iii, pp. 54-68. 

Stiles. Sewage-Polluted Oysters as a Cause of Typhoid and Other 
Gastro-Intestiual Disturbances, U. S. Dep. Agric, Bur. Chem., 
Bull. 156, 1912. 

. The Value of the Shellfish Industry and the Protection of 

Oysters from Sewage Contamination, U. S. Dep. Agric, Year- 
book for 1910, pp. 371-378. 

. The Bacteriological Examinations of Shucked and Shell 

Oysters, J. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 1911, vol. i, pp. 623-631. 

Milh and Milk Products 

CoiT. The Origin, General Plan and Scope of the ^Medical ^Milk Com- 
mission, Proc of the Am. Assn. of Medical Milk Commissions, 
1908, vol. i, pp. 10-17. 

Conn. Exper. Station, Bacteria in Milk and Its Products. 

Excel. Yoghoort or Sour !Milk and Its ^Method of ^Manufacture, Molke- 
rei-Zeitung, 1908, vol. xxii, pp. 1461-1463. 

Farrixgton and Woll. Testing Milk and Its Products. 

FiTCH. Modified Cows' ^filk as a Substitute Food in Infant Feeding, 
Pediatrics, October, 1912. 



362 ANIMAL AND FISH FOODS 

Heinemann. Lactic Acid as an Agent to Keduce Intestinal Putrefac- 
tion, J. Am. Med. Assn., 1909, vol. xxv, pp. 372-376. 

Herschell. On the Use of Selected Lactic Acid Bacilli and Soured 
Milk in the Treatment of Some Forms of Chronic Ill-Health, 
Lancet, 1908, vol. clxxv, pp. 371-374. 

Herter. On the Therapeutic Action of Fermented Milk, Popular Sci- 
ence Monthly, 1909, vol. Ixxiv, pp. 31-42. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

LuERSSEN and Kuhn. Yoghoort, the Bulgarian Sour Milk, Centralblatt 
fiir Bakteriologie, Parasitenkunde und Infectionskrankheiten, 
1908, ii Abtheil., vol. xx, pp. 234-248. 

Metchnikoff. The Utility of Lactic Microbes with Explanation of the 
Author's Views on Longevity, Century Magazine, 1909, vol. 
Ixxix, pp. 53-58. 

KosENAu. Milk in Its Kelation to the Public Health, U. S. Pub. Health 
Service, Hygiene Lab., Bull. 56. 

. The Milk Question. 

Savage. Milk and the Public Health. 

Stanislaus. Kefir and Its Preparation, Am. J. Pharm., 1908, vol. Ixxx, 
pp. 20-26. 

Van Slyke. Modern Methods of Testing Milk and Milk Products. 

. Conditions Affecting the Proportions of Fat and Proteins in 

Cows' Milk, J. Am. Chem. Soc, 1908, vol. xxx, pp. 1166-1186. 



Cheese 

DoANE. The Cold Curing of American Cheese (with digest of previous 
work on the subject), U. S. Dep. Agric, Bureau Animal Indust., 
Bull. 85, 1906. 

■ . Development of Lactic Acid in Cheddar Cheese Making, U. 

S. Dep. Agric, Bureau Animal Indust, Bull. 110, 1908. 

and Lawson. Varieties of Cheese: Descriptions and Anal- 
yses, U. S. Dep. Agric, Bureau Animal Indust, Bull. 105. 

IssAJEFF. Directions for Making Camembert Type of Cheese, U. S. 
Dep. Agric, Bureau Animal Indust., Bull. 98, 1907. 

Langworthy and Hunt. Cheese and Its Economical Uses in the Diet, 
U. S. Dep. Agric, Farmers' Bull. 487. 

Rogers. The Relation of Bacteria to the Flavors of Cheddar Cheese, 
U. S. Dep. Agric, Bureau Animal Indust., Bull. 62, 1904. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 363 

Russell and Hastings. A Swiss Cheese Trouble Caused by a Gas- 
Forming Yeast, Wisconsin Agric. Exper. Sta., Bull. 128, 1905. 

TiiOM. Fungi in Cheese Ripening; Camenibert and Rotjuefort (with 
bibliography), U. 8. Hep. Agric., Jiureau Animal Indust, Bull. 
82, 11)00. 

V/is Slykk and Hart. Conditions Affecting Chemical Changes in 
Cheese Ripening, New York State Agric. Exper. Sta., Bull. 230, 
1J)03. 

and PuBLow. The Science and Practice of Cheese-making. 

, Smith and IIakt. Experiments in Curing Cheese at Differ- 
ent Temperatures, New York State Agric. Exper. Sta., Bull. 
234, 190^. 

Washburn. Principles and Practice of Ice-cream Making, Vermont 
Agric. Exper. Sta., Bull. 155. 

Wiley. Foods and Their Adulterations. 



Eggs 

Berger. Preservation of Eggs, J. Tndust. and Engin. Chem., 1911, vol. 
iii, pp. 493-495. 

Hastings. The Egg Trade of the United States, U. S. Dep. Agric, 
Bureau Animal Indust., Circular 140, 1909. 

Lamon. The Handling and Marketing of Eggs, U. S. Dep. Agric, 
Yearbook for 1911, pp. 407-478. 

Langwortiiy. Eggs and Their Uses as Food, U. S. Dep. Agric, 
Farmers' Bull. 128. 

Osborne and Campbell. Proteins of Egg Yolk and Egg White, J. Am. 
Chem. Society, 1900, vol. xxii, pp. 413-450. 

Pennington and Pierce. The EflFect of the Present ^Method of Han- 
dling Eggs on the Industry and on the Product, U. S. Dep. 
Agric, Yearl)ook for 1910, pp. 461-476. 

Slocum. Marketing Eggs Through the Creamery, U. S. Dep. Agric, 
Bureau Animal Indust., 20th Annual Rep., 1909, pp. 239-246. 

Taylor. The Prices of Farm Products, Wisconsin Agric. Exper. Sta- 
tion, Bull. 209. 

TiBBLES. Foods; Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 

Wiley, Pennington, Stiles, Howard and Cook. Effects of Cold Stor- 
age on Eggs, Quail and Chickens, U. S. Dep. Agric, Bureau 
Chem., Bull. 115, 1908. 



CHAPTER XIII 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb hearing seed, which in upon 
the face of the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding 
seed, to you it shall be for meat. — Genesis 1, 29. 



General Considerations: Chemical Characteristics of Vegetables; Food 
Value of Vegetable Foods ; Nutritive Substances in Vegetables : Carbo- 
hydrates, Fats, etc.; Digestion and Absorption of Vegetable Foods. 

Varieties of Vegetable Foods: Cereals: Wheat (Flour, Bread), Rice, Corn, 
Oats, Rye, Barley, Millet, etc.; Breakfast Foods; Roots and Tubers: 
Potatoes, Beets, Carrots, etc.; Green Vegetables: Cabbage, Spinach, 
Lettuce, Celery, etc.; Dried Legumes or Pulses: Beans, Peas, etc.; 
Fungi, Lichens and Algee. 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

We come now to the study of that large and varied class of foodstuffs 
which we obtain from the vegetable kingdom. In the beginning it will 
be profitable to consider, in a general way, the chemical composition, 
digestibility and nutritive value of vegetable foods in general, comparing 
them in these respects, as well as in their economic aspects, with foods 
derived from the animal kingdom. Then we shall take up a detailed 
study of the different groups of vegetable foods, as well as the proximate 
chemical and physiological principles composing the substance of vege- 
table tissues which are isomeric with similar principles in animal tissue 
in such form as to be readily assimilable by the human organism. 

Chemical Characteristics of Vegetable Foods. — Chemically considered, 
vegetable foods are strikingly different from animal foods. Vegetable 
foods have a large percentage of carbohydrates in comparison to the high 
protein and fat content of animal foods. This peculiarity differen- 
tiates them, for animal foods, with few exceptions, such as milk, contain 
little or no carbohydrate. Eichness in sugar and starch is the charac- 
teristic, then, of vegetable foods; abundance of protein and fat that of 
foods derived from the animal kingdom. 

365 



366 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



CONSTITUENTS OF VEGETABLE FOODS VS. THOSE OF HUMAN BODY.— 
A comparison of the chemical elements in vegetable substances and those 
in the human body shows them to be quite similar, if not the same. All 
plants upon examination will be found to contain carbon (a) derived 
from the air by the aid of chlorophyll; hydrogen (h) absorbed as water, 
ammonia, or other compounds; oxygen (c) in combination, as carbonic 
acid, water and many salts; nitrogen (d) in the proteins and salts ab- 
sorbed chiefly in the form of nitrates and ammonia compounds; sul- 
phur (e), a constituent of the proteins and other tissues, is derived from 
the sulphates in the soil; phosphorus (/), mainly in the proteins, but also 
in seeds and other vegetable tissues, is obtained from the phosphates of 
the soil; iron (g) is the substance which gives the green color to plants 
and seeds. It is derived as a salt from the soil, and is absolutely neces- 
sary for the formation of chlorophyll; potassium (h) salts, derived from 
the soil, are abundant in all plants which are rich in carbohydrates, such 
as sugar and starch, also in the green parts of plants ; sodium (i) is found 
abundantly in all plants; calcium (j) and magnesium (k) salts are 
also important constituents necessary for the normal growth of plant life ; 
silicon (I) is found in the cell walls of various fibrous tissues, being 
taken up from the soil in the form of silica; iodin (m) and hromin (n) 
occur in marine plants. They are accidental constituents and of no 
physiological value; lithium (o) is found in tobacco; zinc (p), copper 
(q) and boron (r) in other plants in small but appreciable quantities. 

INORGANIC SUBSTANCES IN VEGETABLE FOODS.— The inorganic sub- 
stances found in vegetable life consist chiefly of chlorids, sulphates and 
carbonates of iron, silicon, magnesia, lime, soda and potash. The fol- 
lowing table, quoted from Vine's botany, gives an example of the inor- 
ganic constituents, showing the percentage amount in 1,000 parts of dry, 
solid matter in the vegetable foods enumerated therein : 

TABLE SHOWING PERCENTAGE OF INORGANIC CONSTITUENTS IN 

VEGETABLE FOODS 



Wheat grain. . 
Potato Tubers 

Apples 

Peas (seeds). . 





1 


^ 


B 


c3 


1-1 


C3 


1:2 

CO 


1 


19.7 


6.14 


0.44 


0.66 


2.36 


0.26 


9.26 


0.07 


0.42 


37.7 


22.76 


0.99 


0.97 


1.77 


0.45 


6.53 


2.45 


0.80 


14.4 


5.14 


3.76 


0.59 


1.26 


0.20 


1.96 


0.88 


0.62 


27.3 


11.41 


0.26 


1.36 


2.17 


0.16 


9.95 


0.95 


0.24 



0.04 
1.17 

0.42' 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 367 

ORGANIC SUBSTANCES IN VEGETABLE FOODS.— The organic constitu- 
ents of plants, as in animals, are composed of cells which have a cell wall 
consisting of cellulose CallxoOg, a carbohydrate substance surrounding 
the cell contents. The cell contents are composed of living and non-living 
substances. The succulent parts of plants, as tlie leaves, fruit, seeds and 
stems, compose the living tissues, containing a quantity of living proto- 
plasm ; a viscid substance of a tenacious character and protein nature. 
The non-protoplasmic or non-living contents of plant cells consist of sap, 
starch grains, protein granules, sugars, fats, oils, salts and water, which 
are of great importance as elements of our foods. 

FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES VS. MEAT.— Vegetable foods, whib 
possessing an abundance of carbohydrates, also contain a certain amount 
of proteins and fats; while the seeds of the leguminous plants are rich 
in protein, certain of the edible nuts are rich in fats. Vegetable foods 
as a whole, more than the animal foods, contain representatives of all 
three groups — protein, fat and carbohydrates — of nutritive substances. 
In consideration of this fact, the vegetable kingdom must be looked upon 
with more favor as a source of human food supply than the animal king- 
dom, and if one were to select the one or the other for an exclusive 
dietary, it would be the part of wisdom to patronize the green grocer and 
the miller rather than the butcher and fishmonger. It is possible to sub- 
sist on vegetables alone, whereas it would be a hardship to live for any 
lengthy period of time on an exclusive meat diet. The better plan, how- 
ever, is to partake of a well-balanced diet obtained from the resources of 
both the animal and vegetable kingdoms. 

NUTRITIVE SUBSTANCES OF VEGETABLE FOODS.— In studying the 
nutritive substances of vegetable foods we will first take up the carbo- 
hydrates, already mentioned, as the source of sugar and starch. 

Carbohydrates. — Sugar is the circulating carbohydrate, starch the 
stored-up energy of plant life. When a plant, from good seasons or fer- 
tile earth, manufactures more carbohydrate than is required, it stores 
the surplus in the shape of starch, to be drawn upon in case of necessity. 
If not used by the plant to maintain its life, some of this surplus is con- 
verted into sugar by help of the ferment diastase and again circulates 
throughout the plant. Sugar, therefore, is the soluble form of carbo- 
hydrate; starch is the carbohydrate in reserve, like the glycogen of the 
liver energy in storage. 

The liver is referred to as the "storehouse" of the human economy, 
and the carbohydrate in reserve in plants is precisely an analogous 



368 



VEGETABLE FOODS 





WHEAT 



BARLEY 





Kx^^ 





RYE 



OATS 



^ 



9 

^ 








CORN 









RICE 



STARCH GRANULES, MAGNIFfEO. 

Fig. 29.— Cereal Starch Granules. (Bull. No. 13, U. S. Dept. Agric, Div. Cheoj.) 



GEIfERAL CONSIDKRATIONS 369 

process. All the starch in the foods we eat must first be converted into 
sugar or dextrin before it can circulate through our bodies and be avail- 
able as enefgy. Starch is a more concentrated form of carbohydrate 
than sugar and packs into smaller bulk. The granules are very minute, 
and can only be viewed with a microscope. When so examined they will 
be found to have various shapes, round, oval or polyhedral, depending 
on the variety of plant from which the starch is derived. These minute 
starch grains, surrounded by a protecting envelope of cellulose, are not 
affected by cold water, otherwise in continued rainy weather the starch 
would be washed away and the plant die of starvation. Boiling water, 
on the other hand, causes the starch to swell, rupturing the cellulose cov- 
erings, and the true starch escapes between the layers of cellulose and 
forms with the water a colloid, which every laundress understands and 
appreciates. 

During the process of cooking vegetables the starch granules are rup- 
tured, broken up and brought into a colloid state so as to be more easily 
attacked by the digestive juices. As a result, they are more readily con- 
verted into sugar than w^ien ingested in their raw and unruptured state. 
When starch is subjected to dry heat, say at about 300° F., it is con- 
verted into soluble starch and dextrin. The caramel-like crust of a loaf 
of bread, for example, is carbohydrate converted into soluble starch and 
dextrin. 

We learned when studying meat that the nutritive ingredients (pro- 
teins) were contained in minute tubes held together by fine connective 
tissue bands, which on boiling yield gelatin. In the study of vegetable 
foods we also find that the chief nutrient ingredient (starch) is held in 
a vast number of minute compartments or cells, surrounded by a pro- 
tecting covering of cellulose, which is especially characterized by its 
extraordinary insolubility. It is not affected by either hot or cold water 
and only gives way w^hen boiled in a dilute acid. Owing to the peculiar 
insolubility of cellulose it is readily seen that this cell wall must present 
a formidable barrier to the free penetration of the nutritive ingredients 
by the digestive juices, which is of momentous importance to the nonnal 
process of digestion. 

Besides starch and cellulose there is another and interesting group of 
carbohydrates met with in vegetable foods, referred to by some writers 
as pectin, hy others under the general term pectose bodies. Their con- 
stitution and composition cannot very readily be ascertained because they 
cannot be separated from the associated cellulose without disorganizing 
them or changing their substance. Pectose bodies are found in most 



370 VEGETABLE FOODS 

fruits and sparingly in some vegetables. These bodies impart to fruits 
the power of forming jelly when boiled, the pectose being converted into 
pectin, which is the chief substance in fruit and vegetable jellies. They 
appear to be converted into a special kind of sugar (pentose), which is 
not easily assimilated by the human organism.^ 

The most important group of carbohydrates met with in vegetable 
foods are the sugars, which we have casually referred to already; but 
since they merit a more detailed consideration, they were taken up at 
length in Chapter III and are mentioned in Chapter 11. 

Proteins. — The nitrogenous substances contained in vegetable foods, 
like those found in meats, are proteins, therefore vegetable foods may be 
divided into those which contain protein and those which do not. The 
vegetable proteins belong almost entirely to the globulin class. It should 
be remembered that vegetable foods are poorer in nucleoproteins than 
animal foods. Vegetable proteins are poorer in carbon and richer in fat 
than animal proteins ; both varieties are readily coagulable by heat, which 
renders them less digestible. 

The digestibility of animal foods is lessened by cooking, because they 
are composed largely of protein. On the other hand, cooking increases 
the digestibility of vegetable foods, since the latter contain, as a rule, 
very little protein, with an abundance of starch, which cooking prepares 
for ease in digestion. 

Inferior Substances. — Vegetable foods, like animal foods, contain 
a number of nitrogenous substances inferior to proteins. They are in no 
sense comparable to the albuminoids, found so abundantly in the animal 
kingdom. On the other hand, extractives are well represented, belonging 
to a group of chemical substances called amids. 

Fats. — Fats found in vegetables are of a negligible quantity, other 
than that in chemical composition they are similar to animal fats. As a 
rule, they are of a more oily consistency (olein), and have less of the 
more solid components (stearin and palmitin) than the animal fat. This 



1 Some of these bodies appear to be of the nature of dextrins, while others, perhaps, 
stand nearer to starch. It might be well to restrict the term "pectins" to the former 
group; they probably bear the same relation to the pentoses, or sugars with five 
carbon atoms, that dextrin does to the six-carbon-atom sugar, dextrose. The other 
group may be spoken of as pentosans. The sugars to which they give rise are also 
found in many ripe fruits and are certainly not easily assimilated by the cells of the 
body. They are apt to appear in the urine if the fruits containing them are eaten in 
excess. (Hutchison.) 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 371 

difference increases rather than diminishes their digestihility, while their 
nutritive or fuel value is on a parity with the more solid animal fats. 

Watkr and ^IiNKKAL Salt8. — Wc havc miw conHidcTcd all the con- 
stituents of vegetable foods except water and certain mineral salts. Water 
is present in large quantity ; in some vegetables the percentage is as high 
as 78 to 00 per cent. This superabundance of water is one of the essen- 
tial properties of certain vegetables and is largely responsible for the low 
nutritive value of nuuiy of them when compared with their bulk. Such 
vegetables when cooked become even more watery, and so their last state 
is worse than the first. On the contrary, just the opposite is the case 
with animal foods. 

The mineral constituents of vegetable foods are numerous and impor- 
tant as we found when studying the Mineral Salts in the Body and in 
Foodfi in (^hapter XT, and to which further reference will be made when 
the different groups of vegetables are separately considered. The mineral 
ingredients of vegetable foods unite with the organic acids to form bases. 
These when burnt up, either outside or inside the' body, yield alkaline 
salts, which are turned to therapeutic account in those who are suffering 
from calcareous deposits. 

Digestion and Absorption of Vegetable Foods The digestion and ab- 
sorption of vegetable foods have already been considered at length in Chap- 
ters V, VI and VII. As a class, vegetable foods like peas, beans and beets, 
are not to any appreciable extent acted upon by the gastric juice, because 
starch, their chief ingredient, is entirely unaffected in an acid medium. 
We learned in Chapters VI and VII that the digestion of starch began 
in the mouth by the action of the ptyalin of the saliva and was continued 
in the duodenum, where the reaction was again alkaline from the admix- 
ture of the bile and pancreatic secretions. Only vegetables which are 
particularly rich in protein, such as the pulses, are chemically acted upon 
in the stomach. The reduction of the bulky vegetable masses into a fine 
state of subdivision entails a large amount of mechanical effort on the 
part of the stomach in passing the food through the pylorus into the 
small intestine. As a consequence, since animal foods require more 
chemical action on the part of the gastric juice and less mechanical work 
on the part of the stomach, the former instead of the latter are suggested 
for persons of enfeebled digestive power. 

Many writers hold that vegetable foods are not as readily digested 
and absorbed in the intestine as animal foods ; the table on the next page 
is taken from Voit, and will show the percentages of absorption in the 
foods enumerated: 



372 VEGETABLE FOODS 

RELATIVE ABSORPTION OF SOME ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOODS 

Dry Substance Dry Substance 

Food not Absorbed Food not Absorbed 

White Bread 4 per cent Milk 9 per cent 

Macaroni 4 " Peas 9 " 

Rice.... 4 " Potatoes 11 " 

Meat ^ " Black Bread 15 " 

Eggs ^ " Cabbage 15 " 

Maize 7 " Turnips 20 " 

FACTORS CONCERNED IN DIGESTIBILITY AND ABSORPTION.— Digesti- 
bility and absorption of vegetable foods in the intestine are governed 
by two factors : first, the bulk, and second, the amount of cellulose which 
they contain. If the former be small and the latter scanty, digestion is 
very complete, as will be observed from a glance at the above table, where 
bread, macaroni and rice were almost completely digested and absorbed. 

Digestion and Absorption of Bulky Vegetable Foojis. — The 
contrary is the case where the food is bulky and full of cellulose. The ma- 
jority of vegetable foods correspond more or less to this description, hence 
the dictum ^S^egetable foods are not so completely digested as animal 
foods." When we stop to consider that four-fifths of the weight of green 
vegetables and fruits is due to water, and that even the drier vegetables, 
such as legumes^ take up three times their weight of water in the process 
of cooking, it will be readily seen that vegetable foods must be bulky out 
of proportion to their nutritive value. This bulkiness of vegetable foods 
retards digestion (a) by hindering the free admixture of the digestive 
juices with the food mass, thereby lessening the conversion of the nutrient 
constituents for ease of absorption; (h) the bulky mass in the intestine 
stimulates contractions, which hasten the contents along, allowing less 
time for absorption. 

Cellulose as a Factor in Digestion and Absorption of Vege- 
table Foods. — Another obstacle to digestion and absorption of vegetable 
foods in the alimentary canal is the presence of cellulose and the for- 
midable barrier which it presents to digestion. (Reference has already 
been made to cellulose and its extraordinary insolubility pointed out.) 
Indeed, it is only when the plant is very young and tender that it is at 
all possible for cellulose to be successfully attacked by the digestive appa- 
ratus of man or other carnivorous animals. 

While the insolubility of cellulose presents barriers to the digestive 
process, it serves a valuable purpose to the human economy by adding 



GENERAL CONSIDERATrONS 373 

to the biilkiness of the unwicldv mass which vegetable foods form 
in the intestine and thereby stiniuhitcs the movements of the bowel. For 
this reason foods rich in celhiloso, siicii as whole wheat bread, fniits and 
^reen vegetables, are prescribed as iiscfnl adjuvants in the dietetic treat- 
ment of those who suffer from slu^^j^ish actions of the bowels. 

A moderate amount of celluloses in the dietary of healthy persons is 
advisable for its stimulating action on the alimentary canal. Strictly 
carnivorous animals have little use for it, while in the herbivora, owing 
to their long and sluggish intestine, its presence is a necessity. 

Effect of Incomplktenkss of Ahsokption ox Nitkitivb: Value. 
— The incompleteness of absorption, characteristic of most vegetable 
foods, affects in different measures their varied nutritive elements. The 
vegetable fats, such as cocoa buttcM- and olive oil, seem to be as readily 
absorbed as butter and cod liver oil. Starch and sugar are readily di- 
gested and carried into the circulation almost to the last atom. It is only 
when enormous quantities of green vegetables or other carlx)hydrates of 
the leguminous variety are ingested that undigested starch is found in 
the excreta of healthy persons. It is a well-known physiological fact that 
a larger amount of nitrogen is excreted by the bowel on a vegetable diet 
than when animal foods are ingested. Just why vegetable protein should 
be less completely absorbed than the other nutritive constituents of vege- 
table foods is hard to explain. The following table from Hutchison 
gives a resume of a series of experiments carried out on healthy indi- 
viduals, showing the percentage of protein which escaped in the excreta, 
the loss of protein from meat being remarkably less than the protein 
^vaste from vegetable foods: 

RELATIVE ABSORPTION OF PROTEIN IN VARIOUS FOODS 

Protein not 
Diet Absorbed 

Meat 2.3 per cent 

Lentil Flour (218 grams daily) 10.5 " 

Dried Peas (600 grams daily) 17.0 " 

Beans (500 grams) 1 ,, 

Flour (17 grams) j '^ 

Potatoes (3,000 grams) 32.0 " 

Carrots and Fat (412 grams dried) 39.0 " 

Lentils (250 grams, simply soaked and boiled till soft) 40.0 " 

It is difficult to account for the large amount of vegetable protein 
which escapes in the excreta. Doubtless, the effects of cooking are less 
favorable to the digestion and absorption of vegetable protein than to that 



374 VEGETABLE FOODS 

of starch. The effects of heat and moisture cause the starch grains to 
swell, rupture and burst through the cell walls composed of cellulose 
which enclose them, but this same heat and moisture cause the protein 
in the vegetable cells to coagulate and shrink away from its wall of cellu- 
lose and in this way, possibly, remain unruptured. 

Some authorities hold that the large amount of nitrogen found in the 
intestinal excreta on a vegetable diet does not come from unabsorbed pro- 
tein, but rather from the residue of the digestive juices. Eeasoning on 
this analogy, it will be seen that vegetable foods must require a more thor- 
ough admixture and a larger amount of digestive juices for their break- 
ing down than is required by animal foods. This explanation, plausible 
at least in part, does not satisfactorily explain why more nitrogen is lost 
from the bowel on a vegetable than on an animal diet. 

The Nutritive Value of Vegetable Foods. — After considering the chem- 
ical constituents of vegetable foods — the proteins, carbohydrates and fats 
— severally and collectively, we may safely assert that they are equal in 
fuel value to the corresponding food elements obtained from the animal 
kingdom. We have already learned that vegetable protein contains a 
smaller amount of carbon than animal protein and, according to some 
investi'gators, the former is therefore of less nutritive value than the lat- 
ter. The high energy value of starch and sugar is without question. They 
are fuel foods, and have no nutritive value as tissue formers. Vegetable 
fats, such as olive oil and cocoa butter, which form a large part of the 
diet of the inhabitants of some of the southern European countries, are 
also fuel foods. Fats to some extent are tissue formers of high nutritive 
value. 

PROTEIN VALUE: THE VEGETARIAN QUESTION.— After all is said and 
done, there remains the fact that the vegetarian question is a question of 
protein alone. Protein may be obtained from either the animal or vege- 
table kingdom. Shall we eat our protein in an animal or vegetable form, 
taking it for granted that the vegetable foods are relatively poorer in 
this element than the animal foods ? Typical examples of both kingdoms 
will show beyond question that even the fattest meats contain more pro- 
tein than the most nitrogenous forms of vegetable foods. 

It is therefore beyond question that vegetable foods, unless eaten in 
very large quantities, will not yield a sufficiency of protein for the wear 
and tear of the human body. This brings us to the question: how much 
protein does a healthy man require in his food daily ? 

This most important and momentous question will he elaborated on in 
Volume II, in the chapter on ^^ Protein and Nutrition.^^ 



VAKIETIKS OF VKGETAHLE FOODS 375 

RELATIVE COST OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOODS.— The relative 
cost of animal and vegetable foods is an economic question in which the 
vegetarian has the best of the argument. Although succulent vegetables 
are expensive, there is no doubt that cereals are cheap. Then, too, while 
the nutritive substances in vegetables are not quite so abundant as in ani- 
mal foods, yet vegetables play an important part in the nourishment of 
the body, due in part to their attractive Havor, their freshness and the 
variety they add to the dietary. Personal experiment at the market will 
show that one dolhir expended for bread, peas or potatoes yields a far 
larger amount of fuel for the body than a dollar invested in eggs, fish, 
beef, or oven in cheese and milk, which are coniparatively cheap animal 
foods. 

VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 

For convenience of description, we will consider vegetable foods in 
the following order: 

Cereals : 

Wheat (Flour, Bread), etc. 
Breakfast Foods. 
Roots and Tubers. 
Green Vegetables. 
Dried Legumes or Pulses. 
Fungi, Lichens and Algge. 

CEREALS 

Cereals. — Cereals belong to a type of grasses of the natural order 
Graminacia?. They are cultivated at the present time in all parts of 
the world, but it is questionable whether the cereals so much esteemed 
at the present day have been evolved by natural selection and cultiva- 
tion from wild grasses now known, or whether they are distinct species, 
having their origin in grasses which no longer exist The term cereal 
dates back to mythological times. The goddess Ceres is supposed to 
have been the first to cultivate these wild grasses and gather their seed 
for food. We gather from the Holy Writ the fact that cereal had been 
(ised as a foodstuff many centuries before Joseph, under Pharaoh, 
secured his famous "corner on wheat" and for seven years monopolized 
the grain market of the world. In fact, we may safely say that man\s 
use of cereals as a foodstuff antedates history and that its origin is lost 
in the mists of antiquity. 



376 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



Among the (grass) cereals, wheat, rice, com, oats, rye, harley and 
millet are the most important, and are named in the order of their im- 
portance. Other cereals, although not grasses, may be mentioned here as 
buckwheat and quinoa. As a rule, these grains are ground into meal or 
flour. However, rice and barley are usually offered in the markets with 
the hulls removed, though rice flour and barley meal are also used to a 
limited extent. 

COMPOSITION OF FLOUR AND CEREALS.— The following analysis, taken 
from Lawes and Gilbert and quoted by Tibbles(l), shows the relative 
percentage composition of flours made from the principal cereals: 

COMPOSITION OF FLOUR AND OF CEREALS 





Old Wheat 


Barley 


Oats 


Rye 


Corn 


Rice 


Water 


10.00 
70.00 
1.75 
2.40 
1.85 
12.25 
1.75 
0.0 


12.0 
52.7 

2.6 
11.5 

4.2 
13.2 

2.8 

1.0 


10.06 
52.23 

4.33 
12.05 

5.7 
12.5 

3.46 

0.2 


10.50 
70.10 
1.50 
2.10 
1.60 
12.25 
1.90 
0.5 


11.5 

67.30 

5.25 

1.75 

3.00 

10.00 

.5 

0.7 


12.40 


Starch 


76.00 


Fat 


0.40 


Cellulose. . . 


0.40 


Gum and Sugar — 
Protein 


1.40 
6.90 


Ash 


.50 


Loss, etc 


.4 







WHEAT. — Wheat is by all odds the most important cereal used in 
American and European countries, where it occupies the same position 
as a dietetic article that rice fulfills among Oriental peoples. It grows 
readily, producing beautiful crops thrpughout the temperate zone, where 
the active peoples of the earth reside. Its origin as a foodstuff is un- 
known, but profane history tells us of its cultivation by the ancient 
Egyptians and Chinese. It was grown in Mesopotamia 2,000 years B. C. 
The present varieties of wheat are, no doubt, the result of careful selec- 
tion extending for centuries back. Possibly, the modern wheat may be 
derived from a wild plant, some varieties of which, improved by cultiva- 
tion, are still found. Wheat as we know it today was introduced into 
Britain by the Romans. The wheat crop of the United States in 1915 
was 1,011,280,000 bushels. 

Elements of the Component Parts of Wheat Grains. — The 
grain of wheat consists of various parts arranged in concentric layers. 
Since these are important from a dietetic point of view, we shall briefly 
consider the elements forming the component parts of the grain. The 
wheat berry has an external covering or skin, an internal substance or 
kernel and a germ. The external covering, skin or hull, consists of five 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



377 



layers, (a) e pi carp, (6) mesocarp, (c) endocarp, (d) testa, and (e) 
cerealin envelope. The first three of these layers form the bran, to which 
are added the hyalin and cerealin coats. The testa is the true envelope 
coverin<2; the grain. It consists of long, narrow cells, containing the col- 
oring matter which distinguishes red wheat from white wheat. The 
cerealin layer or envelope consists of a single layer of polygonal cells im- 
mediately beneath the testa. It contains aleuron grains enclosing cells 
containing vi famines. The vitamines are complex crystalline substances 
belonging to a chemical group hitherto unknown. 







omoim 




A 

Fig. 30. — Diagrammatic Section of a Grain of Wheat. A. — (a) skin and testa, 
(b) mehibrane, (c) embryo, (d) flour cells, (e) cereal or aleurone layer, (f) 
scutellum. 

B. — Cellular structure of the grain; (a) skin and testa, (b) membrane, (d) endo- 
sperm, (e) starch cells. (Bull. No. 295, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 

The average composition of whole wheat, according to Wiley, is as 
follows : 

Weight of 100 kernels 3.85 grams 

Moisture 10.60 per cent 

Protein 12.25 

Ether extract 1.75 " 

Crude fibers 2.40 

Ash 1.75 " 

Carbohydrates other than crude fiber 71.25 " 

Dry Glutin 10.25 

Moist Glutin • 26.50 " 



378 VEGETABLE FOODS 

Importance of Vitamines. — Vitamines are essential for growth de- 
velopment and life. They are of vital importance to the thyroid 
and other ductless glands. Vitamines occur in plants, and more especially 
in their seeds, in whole wheat, whole corn, unpolished rice, fresh toma- 
toes, fresh legumes, most fresh fruits and their juices. Yeast is also 
rich in vitamines. Human milk, cow's milk, butter, cheese, eggs and 
beef contain vitamines. So far as is known at present, animals are in- 
capable of producing vitamines, but they obtain them by feeding on plants 
containing them. 

The cerealin layer is really the outer portion of the endosperm or 
kernel, which contains the starch. Its cells are rich in fat, containing 
amorphous protein granules, which are believed to exert an influence upon 
the process of leavening, more or less deleterious to the quality of the 
bread. The fat in this layer also tends to become rancid and gives a bad 
flavor to flour, especially when it has been ground for a long while. These 
facts are considered a sufiicient reason for the removal of the cerealin 
layer with bran. 

According to some investigators, the amount of bran varies from 13 to 
38 per cent of the entire grain, according to the quality. In blasted grain 
it is very high, but in grain of an average quality the bran percentage 
usually runs about 13^/^ per cent of the total weight. 

The internal substance of the wheat berry referred to as the hemel 
contains the endosperm, and forms about 85 per cent of the total sub- 
stance of the w^heat berry. It is this portion which is ground into flour. 
It contains a large number of compartments filled with starch grains, 
soluble and insoluble protein, a nitrogenous substance called gluten, some 
sugars and salts. The walls of these compartments are made up of cel- 
lulose. 

The germ, or emhryo, represents about 1^/2 per cent of the whole 
grain. The germ is composed of cells which are rich in enzymes that 
aid in the transformation of the insoluble starch and protein and change 
'•.he endosperm into sugars, dextrins and amids. The nitrogenous matters 
or proteins of the wheat berry vary from 10 to 14 per cent. The germ 
of the wheat berry is particularly rich in nitrogen. 

Gluten. — The term gluten is an expression used to designate the 
proteins, glutenin and gliadin, of wheat. It is obtained by kneading flour 
into a paste with water and afterward washing away the starch with a 
running stream. The remnant remaining is gluten. It is a yellowish- 
gray or grayish-brown substance, very elastic and adhesive, insoluble in 
water and in saliva, and tasteless. 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 379 

Gluten does not exist as such in wheat or flour but is formed when the 
flour is mixed with water out of two proteins, gliadin and glutenin, 
which to'jjcthcr comprise all the protein of the wheat berry except 1.5 
per cent (as worked out by Osborne in the table below from Tibbies) : 

Composition op Gluten in tub Kkrnel op Wheat 

, , T , , , X . I Gliadin 4.25 per cent 

(a) Insoluble proteins | q,^j^,_,._^ 4 3^ ., 

I Albumin 50 " 

(5) Soluble proteins «j Globulin 70 " 

[ Proteose 30 " 

"lOOO 
Gliadin, an albuminoid substance, is soluble in dilute acids, alkalies, 
70 per cent alcohol, and slightly soluble in a solution of sodium chlorid. 
It gives to gluten its property of tenacious elasticity. Glutenin is not 
dissolved in either alcohol or saline solution, but yields to dilute acids and 
alkalies. It is not a single or simple substance, but, according to Mann, 
a combination of gluten fibrin and gluten casein. 

Composition of Wheat Grain. — The following tables, given by Pro- 
fessor Church, graphically portray the proportion and composition of 
the bran, endosperm and germ of wheat grains : 

A— COMPOSITION OF THE PARTS OF WHEAT GRAIN, PERCENTAGES 





Proportion 
of Grain 


Water 


Nitrog- 
enous 


Fat 


Starch and 
Sugar 


Cellu- 
lose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Bran 

Endosperm . . 
Germ 


13.5 

85.0 

1.5 


12.5 
13.0 
12.5 


16.4 
10.5 
35.7 


3.5 

.8 
13.1 


43.6 
74.3 
31.2 


18.0 

.7 

1.2 


6.0 

.7 

5.7 



B— COMPOSITION OF ENTIRE 


WHEAT GRAIN, PERCENTAGES 




Pro- 
por- 
tion of 
Whole 
Berry 


Mois- 
ture 


Ni- 
trog- 
enous 
Mat- 
ter 


Carbohydrate 


Fat 


Lig- 

nin 

or 

Fiber 


Min- 
eral 

Mat- 
ter 




Sugar 


Starch 


Cellu- 
lose 


Cuticle (epidermis 
endocarp and epi- 


4.2 
1.1 
8.2 
1.5 
85.0 


.475 

.131 

1.115 

.173 

11.050 


.362 
.178 

2.048 
.538 

8.925 










3.309 


.080 






.723 






.060 


Aleurone Layer. . . . 
Germ 


3.997 
.144 
.590 


.748 
.187 
.680 




452 


.332 

1.506 


61.635 


.070 


Endosperm 


.590 


Total 


100.0 


12.944 


12.051 


1.838 


62.358 


4.731 


1.615 


1.615 


1.252 







380 VEGETABLE FOODS 

The percentages of the composition of the entire wheat grain are given 
in Table B, from Tibbies, showing more fully the proportion of con- 
stituents which is contributed by each part in the formation of the entire 
grain. It will be noticed by studying these tables that the germ is char- 
acterized by the protein and fat, the endosperm by an abundance of 
starch, and the bran by a preponderance of mineral matter and cellulose. 
It should be added that the germ is further peculiar in both its protein 
and its carbohydrate contents, chiefly present in a soluble form. 

FLOUR.— Flour is made by grinding the grain of various cereals. 'No 
doubt from eating the green heads of wheat, man came gradually to store 
the dried grain for winter use. It is within the bounds of possibility 
that in time he was not long in perceiving that he might reduce the work 
of his teeth by triturating or beating the grains of wheat between two 
stones. There are to be found in archeological collections rounded pieces 
of sandstone which were evidently used for breaking up the seeds of 
grasses and grain used by man for food ; not by rubbing or rotary motion, 
but by pounding with a round- ended stone the seeds laid out upon a flat 
stone. There are said to be still in Ireland and other places rocks which 
give evidence of being used for that purpose. 

Methods of Making Flour. — From the primitive methods of pow- 
dering wheat upon a flat stone with mortar-like depression came the quern 
or handmill, formerly used in the British Isles. This may be roughly 
described as an inverted mortar with a hole in the center, closely fitted 
over a stationary stone (pestle), which had grooves cut on its rounded 
surface. The grain was poured in through a small hole in the top of the 
quern just referred to. The next advance in grinding grain was the 
huhr millstone, which consists of a fixed nether millstone upon which the 
upper millstone is made to revolve. The motive power from the earliest 
times was furnished by slaves, cattle and water. After watermills came 
windmills, then steam and electricity. 

The modern process of milling wheat is done by crushing the clean 
dried berry between steel rollers. This is termed the patent roller process. 
In the old method of milling wheat, the bran was removed but the germ 
was left, the meal or flour consisting of the products of the germ and 
endosperm together. In the elaborate process of the modern roller mill, 
however, the germ also is removed. It is found that the oil which is 
contained so abundantly in the germ is apt to become rancid, spoiling 
the flour. The soluble proteins which are present in that part of the 
grain are apt to act upon the starch of the flour, converting part of it 
into soluble forms, dextrins and sugar. These darken in color in the 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



381 



oven and detract from the appearance of the bread. During the process 
of milling;, to which the whole grain is subjected, its component parts 
are broken up and various niillinfj^ product.s produced. The outer coat 
yields bran, fine pollards and middlings, which represent different frag- 
ments of it from without inward. The germ is removed as refuse, while 
the flour is derived solely from the endosperm, or center of the wheat 
grain. 

To such flour is applied the term straight run. The yield is about 
seventy per cent of the weight of the original grain. By mechanical 
processes this is further subdivided into patents and a large quantity of 
bakers' or household grades. The former is derived from the central 
part of the endosperm, and as prepared from ordinary wheat is rather 
poor in protein but rich in starch. 

Household flour is subdivided further into (a) second patents, or 
whites; (&) first households; (c) second households, or "seconds.'^ 

Relative Composition of Flours. — The following table, from Bul- 
letin 'No. 13, Division of Chemistry, United States Department of Agri- 
culture, shows the relative composition of various grades of flours and 
milling products manufactured in America : 

ANALYSES OF WHEAT AND THE PRODUCTS OF ROLLER MILLING 





Water 


Pro- 
teid 


Fat 


Carbohydrates 


Ash 




Starch, 
etc. 


Crude 
Fiber 


Wheat as it enters the mill 

First break 


% 

9.66 

8.23 

7.66 

10.91 

12.12 

8.75 

11.4 

11.3 

11.9 
12.8 
12.4 
12.0 


% 
14.18 
14.18 
16.28 
16.28 
16.63 
33.25 
13.8 
13.3 

13.3 
10.8 
11.2 
14.0 


% 
2.61 
2.68 
5.34 
5.03 
3.85 
15.61 
1.9 
2.2 

1.5 
1.1 
1.0 
1.9 


% 
69.94 
71.56 
59.42 
56.21 
63.93 
35.19 
71.0 
70.5 

72.0 
74.6 
74.7 
70.4 


% 
1.70 
1.62 
5.60 
5.98 
1.18 
1.75 
0.9 
0.6 

0.7 
0.2 
0.2 
0.8 


% 
1.91 
1.73 


Sixth breaJs ... 


5.68 


Bran 

Tailings from reduction No. 5 . . 
Second Germ 


5.59 
2.29 
5.45 


Entire Wheat Flour 


1.0 


Graham Flour. . 


1.8 


Patent Roller Process Flour: 

Bakers' grade 

Family and straight grade.. . . 

High grade 

Low ffrade . . . 


0.6 
0.5 
0.5 
0.9 







The Flour Best for Food. — From what has been said concerning 
flour and the various analyses of different grades of flour, it may be 
readily understood that "whole wheat flour," "household flour" and "pat- 
ent flour" have a superiority over the so-called "patent roller flour" both 



382 VEGETABLE FOODS 

for digestibility, and availability for bread making. Dr. Hamill(2) 
examined the evidence published with regard to the nutritive value of 
various kinds of flour and arrived at the following conclusions — ^^that 
whole wheat flour, both stone ground and so-called 'standard/ or eighty 
per cent flour, contains less available protein than patent or standard 
patent flour." He says ^'there is a difference in entire wheat flour and 
eighty per cent flour owing to the presence of small particles of bran and 
the germ of wheat, which contain additional constituents and possess a 
value of their own in nutrition. Among the component constituents are 
phosphorus containing organic compounds and other substances, which 
may prove to be of importance in nutrition." 

Tibbies (3) believes that a vast difference exists in the effect on ani- 
mals of entire wheat meal flour and ordinary wheat flour. This differ- 
ence, he holds, is neither due to protein nor phosphates, but he alleges 
that it has been shown that the value of different parts of the grain for 
nutritive purposes cannot be determined merely by an estimation of the 
protein, fat and carbohydrates. The entire wheat grain when it leaves 
the harvest contains all of the elements necessary for the growth and de- 
velopment of a wheat plant, and there is nothing in the wheat berry 
which is not of use for the proper growth of the young sprout. Vari- 
ous feeding experiments have been conducted to determine the value of 
whole wheat flour and standard or patent flour. Hill and Flack (4) have 
conducted a series of experiments with rats fed on whole wheat flour, 
standard flour and Hovis flour (5). The rats grew normally on whole 
wheat flour and produced young; but another cage of rats fed on white 
flour did not thrive and failed to produce young or, w^hen they did, the 
young did not thrive. It was shown by Tibbies that the nutrition of rats 
fed on white flour was likely to suffer from the absence of cellulose, this 
element being necessary for the nutrition of animals possessing a long 
intCotinal canal. Dogs fed exclusively on bread baked from patent roller 
flour die within eighteen to twenty-five days, whereas dogs fed exclusively 
on whole wheat flour at the end of thirty days were hearty and thriv- 
ing. Edie and Simpson (6) fed cages of pigeons on white bread, whole 
wheat bread and standard bread. Those fed with standard bread main- 
tained their weight, paired and laid eggs ; those fed with white bread im- 
mediately began to lose weight and manifested illness, developing poly- 
neuritis, the beri-beri of fowls. Some of the latter died, others were cured 
and recovered their weight and fitness when fed on whole grain or whole 
grain and yeast. 

As a result of these experiments it was concluded that the outer por- 



\ 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 383 

tions of tlio grain of wheat which were removed in the milling process 
included substances which are necessary for growth, maintenance of nu- 
trition and even life itself. These substances arc important both for the 
growing and adult animal. The milling of wheat, then, is a question 
of national importance. The flour from which the bread was made that 
nourished our sturdy forefathers was not made in a patent roller process 
mill but was ground on an old-fashioned buhr millstone. The finished 
flour contained all of the starch and cereal salts that nature grew into 
the wheat berry. An old English author in writing on this subject says: 
"Whatever mixtures of grain or qualities of bread might be the food of 
some of our ancestors, the common standard of bread from Alfred the 
Great's time down to the time of Queen Anne was three-fourths of the 
wheat which represented all of the flour." The writer says that all went 
well for eight hundred years, but in the time of Queen Anne it was 
thought proper to have three sorts of bread, "so that instead of flour for 
bread, and bran that remained, assize bread became a mystery, and we 
no longer knew what we were eating.'' Tibbies (7), in summing up this 
writer's views, says : 

The miller divided the flour, but in the attempt to prepare one for white, 
another for wheaten and the third for household bread, the inferior kind became 
disagreeable to the taste of those accustomed to finer bread. The inferior bread 
contained the pollard and fine bran, which few people chose to eat if they could 
obtain the finer kind, and so the people, rejecting what they called "brown" bread, 
took to the wheaten, which they called "white" bread, and from that day to the 
present the greatest attention has been paid to the production of the finest and 
whitest bread. But to obtain the finest flour and whitest bread it has become 
necessary to remove all the bran and the germ. By so doing, however, the miller 
and baker have impoverished the flour and bread of some of the most important 
constituents of the wheat grain, viz., the vitamines, enzymes, activators, amino- 
acids and lipoids, which only exist in the germ and subpericarpal layers of the 
bran of wheat. The removal of these substances does not matter very much in 
the case of well-to-do families, where fresh milk, animal foods and vegetables 
containing vitamines are constantly a part of the daily diet. But it matters 
greatly to the children of the poor, whose chief diet is white bread. 

Whole Wheat Flour. — ^Whole wheat flour is the product of the 
entire wheat grain as it leaves the harvest field and contains absolutely 
everything within the epidermis of the wheat berry — the whole gluten, 
the germ with its rich protein and oils and all of the salts and all of the 
starches. Whole wheat flour is the most perfect wheat product that the 
ingenuity of man has devised. It is practically wheat meal containing 
all the proteins, fat, carbohydrates and minerals which nature grew in 



384 VEGETABLE FOODS 

the wheat berry. No sieves, bolters or dressers are used in its manufac- 
ture. The presence of bran prevents the product from being very fine, 
consequently many coarse particles of bran and unpulverized kernel can 
be detected in the finished product. Ordinary white flour produced by 
the patent roller process contains 44 per cent of mineral matter, while 
whole wheat flour contains 1.75 per cent mineral matter. 

BREAD.— Bread, ordinarily made from a mixture of "whites" and 
"households," is derived most commonly from a blend of different wheats. 
The best blends for this country are made up from admixtures of hard 
winter wheat with white spring wheat. The advantage of blending is 
that the deficiencies of one kind of gluten are made up for by the ex- 
cesses of another. Gluten is a composite substance, and since some wheats 
are richer in some constituents and other wheats in others, by suitable 
blending a fiour can be produced, which is not only "strong," but has also 
a good color and flavor. 

Historical Tracings of Bread Making. — Bread making is an an- 
cient art, and, like the origin of grinding grain, antedates history, Ching- 
Nong, 1998 b. c, is reputed to have been the first who taught men (the 
Chinese) the art of husbandry and the science of making bread from 
wheat. The Greeks attributed the discovery of bread making to the god 
Pan, but bread was in use among the Chaldeans and Egyptians before 
the Greek gods had their inception. Its earliest form was probably un- 
leavened bread, consisting of bannocks, made from bruised and broken 
cereals, mixed with water or water and oil. 

In the days of the patriarch Abraham cakes were made which were 
thought to be a fit offering for the angels. His wife Sarah mixed flour 
and water together, kneaded it and baked bread, using the hearth for an 
oven and hot ashes for heat. Prior to the bondage of the Israelites in 
Egypt baking had become a highly perfected art. The Egyptians used 
several varieties of flour and made cakes of many kinds and shapes. 

According to profane history, one of the most important of servants 
in the service of Pharaoh during Joseph's regime was a professional 
baker. The staple product of the country seems to have been a cereal 
(com in the British sense, not maize, Indian or American corn), which 
Joseph gathered and stored away during the seven years of plenty and 
sold during the seven years of famine. 

From Eg}'pt the art of baking spread to Greece, thence to Eome, 
where the bakers formed a guild or a kind of trades union. In Europe, 
however, the art of baking antedated the knowledge of the Egyptians, 
for excavations made in Switzerland at the site of the prehistoric lake 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 385 

dwellings not only revealed grinding stones for milling purposes but also 
revealed evidence of the baking art in the presence of charred loaves of 
bread. It would seem that not infrequently these pile dwellings, like 
those of modern man, would catch tire. The charred bread, still retaining 
the form of the grains, cooking utensils, etc., would drop from the burn- 
ing building and sink to the bottom of the lake, to remain a mute but 
sure witness to the customs of those remote days, for charcoal is not sus- 
ceptible of decay and is practically everlasting when once burned. 

The cakes were round, an inch or an inch and a half thick, flat or 
slightly concave on the bottom, giving evidence of having been baked by 
placing them on heated rocks and covering them with hot ashes. The 
material of which the loaves were made was not flour or meal as we 
understand the terms, but grains of cereal broken up into larger and 
smaller particles. 

Process of Home Baking. — Bread is the most widely used product 
of wheat and is made in many different forms and varieties. As made 
in the home, bread is usually prepared by mixing yeast with a flour bat- 
ter and leaving it to ferment for several hours. During this process 
alcohol and carbonic acid gas are produced which make the mass vesic- 
ular and cause the dough to "rise." Gluten, a mixture of proteins, has 
the peculiar property of becoming viscid when mixed with water. The 
yeast causes a liberation of gas that blows up the viscid mass, which yet 
possesses sufficient coherence to remain in the form of a honeycomb or 
sponge. Without this coherence, light bread could not be made. The 
manufacture of good bread depends largely upon whether the flour con- 
tains a fair percentage of gluten or not. It is the proportion of gluten 
rather than starch which determines the character of the bread, and the 
character of the gluten is even more important than its proportion. The 
right proportions of glutenin and gliadin, the component parts of gluten, 
affect the stability of the latter, so necessary for the production of a 
porous spongy bread that will retain its moisture. In the making of 
bread, alcohol forms in the sponge or dough, incident to the yeast fer- 
mentation. 

Sour Bread. — In the process of baking, the alcohol is almost entirely 
driven off and the yeast germs killed. If the bread be not thoroughly 
baked some of the alcohol may be retained in the loaf and the life of the 
yeast may not be completely destroyed. This will cause the bread to sour 
when it is a day or two old. 

Hot Bread. — While it is true that hot bread forms larger doughy 
masses in the stomach than stale bread and resists the action of the 



386 VEGETABLE FOOD 

digestive juices a little longer, yet in healthy persons the digestive 
process is not materially prolonged. A well-baked loaf should have 
a bottom, top, side and end crust which is hard and resonant, while the 
crumb is elastic and spongy. Such a loaf when stale and slightly dried 
should be prescribed for dyspeptics, because it crumbles into fine particles 
and is more easily mixed with the salivary juices during mastication. 
Hot bread can be made without the aid of yeast; its ^'rising" proper- 
ties are conferred upon it by the chemical action of soda or baking 
powder. 

Bread Leaveners. — Bicarbonate of soda is an alkali. If great care 
is not used, some of it will remain unneutral ized on account of the insuffi- 
cient acid in the product. In making biscuit, cream of tartar and bicar- 
bonate of soda are usually used, in the proportion of two and one-quarter 
level teaspoonsful of cream of tartar and one level teaspoonful of soda to 
one pint of flour. During the kneading and baking a chemical reaction 
takes place, and Rochelle salt is the product which is left in the batch 
of biscuits to the amount of two and one-half teaspoonsful. Rochelle 
salt and many other chemicals in food are not food, cannot be used by the 
body, and must be eliminated. This puts extra and uncalled-for work 
upon the organs of elimination, especially those whose function it is to 
destroy poisons. When soda is used with milk, sodium lactate is left in 
the bread; when combined with vinegar or molasses, sodium acetate is 
left behind. All these chemicals interfere with digestion and with the 
life processes of the body, and affect chiefly those who are not vigorous 
and who, from their vocations, are kept indoors. 

Alum is also used as a leavener in bread making. It lessens the nu- 
tritive value of the bread by converting the phosphates into aluminum 
phosphate. In excess, .this is a prolific source of dyspepsia and con- 
stipation. 

Aerated Bread. — Aerated bread is made without the aid of yeast. 
By this means fermentation is avoided and some of the starch saved. 
Such bread is usually made by machinery, no human hand ever touching 
the flour, dough or finished loaf. The process is this: ''Flour is poured 
into the machine; the atmospheric air is abstracted and its presence re- 
placed by carbonic acid gas; the dough is made with aerated water; 
the kneading is done by a machine, which turns out the dough into tins, 
which are kept moving over the fire until the loaves are done to a turn." 
Such bread is light and spongy and has the advantage of cleanliness, be- 
sides being free from sources of overfermentation. With the use of 
aerated bread heartburn, indigestion and flatulence become less frequent. 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 387 

Yeast bread, however, hy reason of its liigh vitaiiiiiie (•((ntciit, is more 
wholesome than aerated bread. 

CiiARACTKRisTics OF GooD Bread. — No niBtter by what process a 
loaf of bread is made, it should ])osses8 certain characteristics: (n) it 
should be well "risen"; (h) it should jmssess a thin, llinty crust, neither 
very light nor dark in color, and sufficiently brittle to break easily; (c) 
the crumb should be elastic, of uniform texture without large holes, and 
of a smooth and silky ''pile"; (d) it should have a sweet nutty flavor and 
odor; (e) in color it should be neither light nor dark; (/) the crumb 
should be of a creamy whiteness when made from white patent flour. 

Digestibility and Absoiiptiox of Bukad. — The digestibility of 
bread has been casually referred to and the notorious indigestibility of 
new bread pointed out. The more thoroughly bread is chewed and ground 
into fine particles by the teeth, the more complete will be the transforma- 
tion of the starch. It is due to the greater ease with which they can bo 
pulverized by the teeth that dry toast and ordinary stale bread are more 
easy to digest than newly baked loaves. The dryness of the toast enables 
the bolus to become more thoroughly insalivated during mastication. As 
a result, it is readily converted into soluble forms. For this reason the 
crust of bread is more easily digested than the crumb. From the action 
of saliva on breadstuffs digestion continues sparingly in the stomach. 
When it reaches the intestine the final digestion of the starch and pro- 
tein takes place and absorption begins. When properly digested bread 
is almost entirely absorbed. 

Some of the most conclusive experiments in the absorption of bread, 
made from the three following grades of flours, were made by Rubner 
and are quoted here : 

1. Finest white "patent roller'' 

2. Middle quality "seconds" 

3. Whole wheat flour. 



The amount of nutrients contained in the loaves made from each 
grade was as follows : 

ABSORBABILITY OF BREAD MADE OF VARIOUS GRADES OF FLOUR 

Carbo- Mineral 

Nitrogen Fat hydrates Matter 

No. 1 10.20 6.69 528.8 2.39 

No. 2 13.19 5.65 507.9 2.85 

No. 3 12.45 12.65 504.5 8.54 



388 VEGETABLE FOODS 

Bread No. 1 contained 68.5 per cent water; Xo. 2 had 69.4 per cent; 
Xo. 3, 62.4 per cent. The percentages of loss from non-absorption were 
these : 

Quantity Per cent Per cent Per cent 

of Dry Dry Per cent Per cent Carbo- Ash 

Substance Substance N. Lost Fat Lost hydrate Lost 

Eaten Lost Lost 

No. 1 .... 615.3 grams 4.03 20.07 44.69 1.10 19.28 

No. 2 .... 612.6 " 6.66 24.56 62.83 2.57 30.35 

No. 3 ... . 617.1 " 12.23 30.47 51.14 7.37 44.98 

The absolute losses were: 

Fresh Carbo- 

Feces Dried N. Fat hydrates Ash 

No. 1 132.7 24.8 2.17 2.99 5.83 2.39 

No. 2 252.8 40.8 3.24 3.55 13.10 3.90 

No. 3 217.8 75.7 3.80 6.47 37.23 8.34 

He draws especial attention to the great absolute loss of carbohydrate 
in the whole wheat bread. 

More recent experiments have been made in this country (8), in which 
the absorption of bread made from patent and bakers^ flour, respectively, 
was studied, 672 grams (24 ounces) of bread being taken daily. The 
results were: 

ABSORBABILITY OF BREAD FROM BAKERS' AND PATENT FLOUR 

Per cent Digested 



Bread 
"Bakers' " 
"Patents" 



Dry Matter 


Protein 


94.2 


91.0 


94.4 


90.5 



Fat 


Carbohydrates 


94.6 


96.8 


94.7 


96.9 



'No difference was found in this case between the two kinds of bread. 
In another set of experiments white bread, entire wheat and graham 
bread were compared, with the following results(9) : 

100 GRAMS OF BREAD YIELD IN THE BODY 

Calories Protein 

White bread 269 8.6 grams 

Entire wheat bread 235 8.6 " 

Graham bread 218 8.3 " 

"Taking the results as a whole, it may fairly be concluded that the 
protein of whole wheat bread is not so well absorbed as that of white 
bread. Even bread made from decorticated wheat does not offer the 
advantages often ascribed to it, for exact experiment has shown that it is 
not much better absorbed than ordinary whole wheat bread." 

Two-thirds of a loaf of bread is made up of gas and the solid part, 



VAKTETTES OF VEGETABLE FOODS , 389 

about 30 per cent to 35 per cent by weight, consists of water, so that 
bread is one of the least watery of vegetable foods, relatively much less 
so than raw meat. 

Nutritive Value of Bread. — Taking weight for weight, though by 
no means bulk for bulk, bread can bo regarded as one of the most nu- 
tritious of our ordinary foods. It contains most of the chemical constit- 
uents necessary for proper nutrition. It yields a large proportion of 
carbohydrates, a moderate amount of protein and mineral matter, but 
scarcely any fat. For this reason it cannot be regarded as a perfect food. 

From an economic point of view bread is not only the most nutritious 
but it is also among the cheapest of oiir foods, both in regard to the actual 
weight of nourishment obtained and in regard to the variety of nutrient 
constituents. 

Sawdust and Woody Fiber Bread. — In Sweden and Norway saw- 
dust is sometimes converted into bread, for which purpose beech or some 
wood which does not contain turpentine is repeatedly macerated and 
boiled in water to remove soluble matters and then reduced to powder, 
heated several times in an oven and ground. In this state it is said to 
have the smell and taste of corn flour. (Tomlinson's "Cyclopedia of 
Useful Arts," vol. ii, p. 926.) 

Bread has been made in times of famine of a variety of substances; 
thus, in the years 1629, 1630 and 1693, very good, wholesome, white 
bread was made from boiled turnips in England. The moisture was 
pressed out of the turnips, and they were then kneaded with an equal 
quantity of wheaten flour. (Becknian's "History of Inventions,'^ vol. i, 
p. 349, 1846.) 

During the late siege of Paris the bread served out constituted a very 
coarse and mixed article. In Sheppard's "Shut Up in Paris," p. 309, 
it is stated to have been found by analysis to be comprised of one-eighth 
wheat, four-eighths potatoes, peas, oats and rye, two-eighths water, and 
the remaining one-eighth straw, hulls of grain and the skins of vegetable 
products. 

During the present European war it is claimed that Germany has 
resorted to the use of sawdust in bread making. A friend of the author, 
traveling in Germany and Switzerland in 1916, was presented with a 
loaf of this bread which was being used as food for the English and 
French prisoners. 

RICE.— Rice is more widely used for food than any other cereal ex- 
cept wheat. It is the staple cereal in Oriental countries, where hundreds 
of millions of people depend upon it as their chief source of starchy foods. 



390 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



Cultivation of Rice. — Rice is grown in low alluvial lands, and re- 
quires in the early part of its production that the fields or squares on 
which it is growing be actually flooded with water. '^During germination 
and growth of the crop, water is allowed to flood the field several times; 
between times the earth is allowed to dry while the young rice is hoed 
or worked." When rice is threshed it contains a brown husk, which is to- 
day removed by a hulling machine. In former days it was removed by 
means of a large mortar and pestle worked by hand. Until recent years 
the simple process of hulling rice was considered satisfactory, but a de- 
mand for a whiter and a more highly polished rice has brought about the 
perfection of elaborate machinery, in which, by means of leather belts, 
the outer layer of the grain is rubbed off, and with it most of the nutritive 
material of the grain is lost. The practice of polishing rice continues, 
and as a result the best of this important food is separated, to be used as 
a food for stock, instead of remaining with the grain to enrich the food 
of human beings. 

Composition of Rice. — The average composition of rice, as har- 
vested, hulled and polished, is shown in the following table (10) : 

COMPOSITION OF RICE 





In the Husk 


Hulled 


Polished 


Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Starch, Sugar and Gum 


10.50 
6.80 
1.60 

68.10 
9.00 
4.00 


12.00 
7.20 
2.00 

76.80 
1.00 
1.00 


12.40 
6.90 
0.40 

77.40 


Cellulose 

Ash 


0.40 
0.50 



From a study of this analysis it will be seen that rice is poor in pro- 
teins (6 per cent) and fat, and is, therefore, not a suitable form of food 
for any individual or nation, unless served with eggs or milk, as in pud- 
dings, or with meat, fish or peas, to furnish a well-balanced ration. 

Digestion and Absorption of Rice. — Rice is only moderately easy 
of digestion, but is absorbed with very great completeness in the intes- 
tine; indeed, its solid constituents enter the circulation almost as com- 
pletely as those of meat. This ease of absorption is due to the small 
amount of cellulose. The fact that rice leaves very little residue in the 
intestine is of value in certain cases. Its nutritive value is reduced by 
its deficiency in protein and fat as well as by its impoverished condition 
due to the process of polishing the gram. 



VAKTETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 391 

Polished Rice: Its Insufficiency. — The insufficiency of white or 
polished rice as a food has heen studied hy |)]iyHi<)h)gists, dietitians and 
physicians, and the reports of researches along this line are numerous. 
Kajiura, in collaboration with Rosenheim ( 1 1 ) , published the resultr, of 
their researches concerning the proteins of rice. This does not appear 
to have been as thoroughly accomplished by any previous workers in 
this field. They established the fact that rice is wholly lacking in pro- 
tein soluble in alcohol, such as gliadin in wheat and hordein in barley. 
They were convinced that the lack of such a protein in polished rice 
might account for its insufficiency as a food. They fed groups of birds 
on rice plus gluten, rice plus hordein and rice plus calcium carbonate 
and phosphate. In all cases the birds died after varying lengths of time. 
Control birds fed on whole barley grew normally and were maintained in 
a good condition of health. These various observations were not sufficient 
to prove that the lack of gliadin or hordein was directly accountable for 
the different effects of barley and polished rice. 

Polished rice is rice which, in the process of milling, has been deprived 
of its husk or shell, pericarp, subpericarpal layers and the germ. From 
the thresher the rice is sent to the mills in barrels holding about 162 
pounds each. From this quantity of rough rice the mills secure 95 
pounds of clear rice, 8 pounds of polished rice, 30 pounds of bran and 
29 pounds of waste. The rice polish and the rice bran are mixed and sold 
as a foodstuff under the name of rice food or rice meal. It is very nu- 
tritious and is largely employed as a food for pigs. After the process 
of milling and polishing the end of each grain shows a depression which, 
in the entire grain, contained the minute yellowish embryo. The re- 
moval of these structures leaves a grain composed of cells packed with 
starch. The substances removed during polishing are driven off by cen- 
trifugal force through the meshes of a wire cloth. They form rice polish- 
ings, rice bran or meal. This material contains the embryo, the amino- 
acids, the vitamines and other substances contained in the outer layers 
of the rice. Fraeser and Stanton (12) carried on a series of investiga- 
tions and were convinced that the deeper layers of the pericarp, removed 
in polishing rice, contain a substance or substances essential to the organ- 
ism. These results agree with many observations since made on the 
subject. An alcoholic extract has been made from rice polishings and 
administered to birds and human beings suffering from beri-beri caused 
by eating "white rice." This has effected a cure. Simpson, Webster and 
others (13) confirm the discovery that rice bran and its alcoholic extracts 
contain substances of a protective and curative nature. Their method of 



392 VEGETABLE FOODS 

securing this curative was by concentrating the extracts under a fan in- 
stead of on a water bath, thereby showing that the protective substances 
are destroyed by moderate heat. Casimir Funk, in a long research at 
the London Lister Institute, has done a vast amount of work in connec- 
tion with the '^protective substances," to which he gave the name of 
vitamines. These are nitrogenous substances, probably amins, and higtily 
essential to life. The important truth learned from the researches of 
these investigators is that we seem here to be dealing with a compound or 
with compounds which cannot be classified under any of our accepted 
foodstuffs, protein, fat, carbohydrate or inorganic salts. Small quanti- 
ties only are needed for health, and the organism may be deprived of 
them without serious consequences for considerable periods of time. Con- 
tinued deprivation, however, leads inevitably to death. 

CORN.— Corn is a cereal peculiar to this country, unknown until the 
discovery of America. The progenitor of our Indian corn (according to 
the Popular Science Monthly) was a plant of the grass family, growing 
wild on the plateaux of Mexico and Central America thousands of years 
ago. It was originally, no doubt, a tropical or subtropical plant, but the 
Indians, though unconscious of the trend of their attempts to extend 
corn growing, nevertheless succeeded in evolving varieties which would 
ripen as far north as Canada. The desire to produce corn crops was 
probably the incentive which led the Indians to abandon nomadic life and 
to form settlements. After the discovery of America the use of corn and 
its cultivation spread rapidly to other countries, and it is now very exten- 
sively cultivated in all regions of the earth where it will grow. 

So generally has it come into use that it now ranks with wheat, rice, 
rye, barley and oats as one of the food grains of the world, and it may be 
called the American Indians' gift to modern civilization. 

Parts of the Corn Grain. — The grains of corn grow in double rows 
along a woody cob, from which they are easily shelled when ripe and 
dry. The seed or grains are not inert but living things, which under 
favorable circumstances will produce a new plant. Koughly speaking, the 
seed consists of three main divisions : the shin, the germ and the endo- 
sperm. The outer skin composes about six per cent of the entire weight 
of the grain and serves as a protection to the delicate interior parts. It 
is made up principally of a tough cellulose or crude fiber, containing some 
mineral matters embedded in it. The germ in corn is larger than in 
most cereals and forms, in average corn, about ten per cent by weight of 
the grain. 

The germ contains the embryo, from which a new plant will develop 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



393 



under favorable circumstances. The endosperm constitutes about 84 per 
cent by weight of the grain and represents the food which the parent 
plant has stored for the early growth of its offspring. It has been deter- 
mined by analyses that 51 per cent of the eelluh)se of the grain is formed 
in the skin or husk; 65 per cent of tlie fat and about 10 per cent of the 
protein are found in the germ ; 90 per cent of the starch and 84 per cent 
of the protein in the endosperm. 




Fig. 31. — Diagrammatic Section of a Grain of Corn. A. — (a) skin and testa, (b) 
membrane, (e) embryo, (d) endosperm, (f) scutellum. 

B. — Cellular structure of the grain; (a) skin and testa, (b) membrane, (d) endo- 
sperm, (e) starch cells. (Bull. No. 295, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 

On the basis of numerous studies it can be stated that the different 
varieties of corn differ little among themselves in nutritive value, and 
that when matured and ripened the corn crops of various parts of the 
world are practically identical in composition. The fuel value, or, as it 
is often called, the energy value, is 1,795 calories per pound. This cereal 
is used to a large extent as a food for both man and animals in various 
parts of the world. As stated above, corn contains proteins which main- 
tain weight and promote growth and development. The growth of ani- 
mals fed on corn progTCSses normally, and it appears that the effective 
protein is maize glutelin. Osborne and !Mendel carried out a series of 
feeding experiments and found that animals fed on zein, the chief protein 
of corn, did not thrive ; animals fed on maize glutelin, however, did well. 
Casimir Funk (14) has come to the conclusion that the pericarp or outer 
layers of the grain of corn contain vitamines. 



394 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



Corn Milling. — The method of grinding corn meal varies in differ- 
ent countries. The primitive methods of gTinding corn on revolving mill- 
stones retain in the meal the principal part of the salts, protein, fat and 
lipoids; this so-called water-ground corn meal was a very nutritious, 
wholesome product, but the modern methods of milling corn deprive the 
meal of much of its salts, a considerable proportion of its protein and a 
large part of its fat and lipoids. The ancient method of milling corn 
between revolving stones is still prevalent in this country and more 
particularly in the South. Meal so prepared makes the most palatable 
bread. Such meal having only the coarse bran removed has nearly the 
same composition as the entire grain. 

Water-ground corn meal has the disadvantage of being hydroscopic, 
and its higher fat content makes it apt to become musty, especially in the 
summer months. This makes no difference in the South, where mills are 
convenient and where one can have fresh water-ground corn meal with- 
out trouble. The tendency to become musty is remedied by the modern 
milling methods, which substitute steel rollers for stones. The rollers 
flatten the germ without breaking it, thus making it possible to remove 
it in its entirety. The fat in the germ, when separated, is called corn 
oil, and is used in many ways in the arts and for culinary purposes. It 
is also likely to become rancid. The removal of the germ and the kiln- 
drying of the meal lessen the probability of the meal becoming musty 
and at the same time, on account of the removal of the germ, reduce ma- 
terially the percentages of fat, cellulose, mineral matter and protein. 
The water-ground corn meal then contains a larger percentage of vitam- 
ines than corn meal made according to the new process. 

Analyses of Corn. — Below is a table giving the comparative cost of 
nutrients and the fuel value from the principal cereal grains : 

COMPARATIVE COST OF NUTRIENTS AND ENERGY IN THE 
GRAINS AND FLOURS 



Food 


Price 
per pound 


Cost of 
1 pound 
Protein 


Cost of 

1,000 

Units of 

Energy 


Energy 
Units for 
10 cents 


Wheat Flour 


Cents 
3 

4 
8 
6 
5 


Dollars 
.31 
.32 
.29 
1.18 
.77 
64 


Cents 
2 
2 
2 
5 
5 
4 


Calories 
5,440 
5,540 
4,500 
2,025 
2,000 
2,400 


Com Meal 


Oatmeal 


Rice 


Wheat Bread 


Rye Bread 









VAETETTES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



395 



From the preceding table the relative economy of com meal is apparent. 
1'lie smaller cost of rye among the breads is also noticeable. However, 
the relative differences are not great and appetite may well be consulted 
in choosinu: between them. 

A further analysis of corn, taken from Farmers* Bulletin 298, United 
States Department of Agriculture, shows the average composition of corn 
and corn products: 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF CORN AND CORN PRODUCTS 



Kind of Material 





Pro- 




Water 


tein 


Fat 


% 


% 


% 


10.8 


10.0 


4.3 


10.5 


6.0 


3.8 


10.5 


12.9 


4.4 


11.4 


10.8 


5.0 


11.9 


10.7 


4.8 


8.8 


11.6 


8.1 


10.7 


11.2 


5.2 


11.0 


9.4 


.7 


10.8 


8.3 


.5 


12.0 


8.7 


4.7 


12.0 


8.9 


4.9 


12.5 


9.2 


1.9 


12.6 


7.1 


1.3 


16.6 


.... 


100.0 



Carbohydrates 



Starch, 

Sugar, 

etc. 



Crude 
Fiber 



Min- 
eral 
Mat- 
ters 



Fuel 
Value 

per 
pound 



Com, whole grain, average 

Com with low protein content . 
Corn with high protein content. 

Corn, white 

Corn, yellow 

Sweet Corn (matured) 

Pop Com 

Hominy, fine 

Samp, coarse 

Corn Meal (whole grain ground), 

unbolted 

Corn Meal (whole grain ground) 

bolted 

Com Meal, granulated 

Corn Flour, i.e., finely ground 

and bolted corn 

Corn Starch 

Liquid Glucose (for table use) 
Com Oil 



% 
71.7 



% 
1.7 



78.5 
70.8 



68.8 
68.9 
66.8 
69.6 
78.2 
79.4 

71.1 

72.0 
74.4 

77.5 
90.0 
83.5 



2.2 

1.2 
1.0 



% 
1.5 
1.2 
1.4 



1.3 

1.0 
1.0 

.6 

.5 



Cal. 

1,795 

1,685 

1,695 

1,690 

1,690 

1,750 

1,710 

1,810 

1,770 

1,850 

1,765 
1,770 

1,645 
1,675 
1,120 
4,040 



Fuel Value of Corn. — Chemical analysis shows that corn is high 
in fuel value, somewhat deficient in protein and mineral matter, slightly 
below the average for the cereal group. Its energy or fuel value, how- 
ever, is highest of all the cereals in the list, being approximately 1,800 
calories per pound, or about 100 calories above the average. Its high 
caloric value is due in part to the percentage of fat, which is 4.3 per cent, 
while the average of other cereals is 2.5 per cent. 



396 ^ VEGETABLE FOODS 

ISToRMAL Crop. — It is estimated by the Department of Agriculture 
that the normal crop of corn exceeds 3,000,000,000 bushels. There are 
regions in the South and West in which corn is not only the principal 
cereal product but also the most important of all articles of diet. In cer- 
tain sections of this territory, wheat flour is of secondary importance and 
in some places is used but little. 

In many Southern families, even in the cities, corn meal in some form 
is eaten three times a day and in most families at least once a day. These 
facts have been given some significance in recent years by those who re- 
gard corn as an etiological factor in the production of pellagra (15). 

Corn Meal. — Corn meal is the chief product manufactured from 
maize. In the early days the methods were crude. The Indians ground 
corn between two flat stones or pounded it to a powder and removed the 
bran by winnowing in sieves and similar devices. The old process meal 
was ground on buhr millstones. The new process uneal is produced by 
improved machinery, and the character of the meal is influenced by the 
amount of the different elements of the grain retained in the finished 
meal. The difference in chemical variation between whole corn (unbolted) 
meal old process and corn meal bolted new process is the loss in the latter 
of about one-eighth of the grain. This loss consists chiefly of the cellulose 
of the skin. The removal of this material increases the proportion of the 
other materials present, leaving the neiv process meal richer in nutrients 
other than crude fiber than unbolted meal. 

Spoiling of Corn Products. — The spoiling of corn products is 
most common at the season when the whole kernel is ready to germinate 
and the germ tissue is active. This occurs in the spring, during the 
germinating season, as a result of moisture and high temperature. A con- 
trol of these factors offers the hope of checking spoiling. Meal, to be 
kept through the germinating season, should be kept in cold storage. 
Water-ground corn meal is likely to spoil, even during the winter months, 
if it contains an excess of moisture or is stored in a warm place. This 
is one feature in the manufacture of corn meal which increases the pos- 
sibility of spoiling(16). 

It has long been understood by the miller that the presence of the 
germ in meal increased the tendency to spoil. Grits keep better than 
meal from whole corn. Recent examinations made by the Bureau of 
Chemistry of the United States Department of Agriculture show that, 
in comparison with whole-kernel meal prepared from corn, degerminated 
bolted meal, both dried and undried, has better keeping qualities. Meal 



VAKIKTIES OF VKGETABI.K FOODS 397 

ground from whole grain, even when thoroughly kiln-dried, is likely to 
develop acidity in so short a time as to demand immediate consumption. 
Meal of this type is of greater nutritive value, is more oily in flavor and 
moro palatable. It should be milled locally and in small quantities and 
consumed at once. 

White and Yellow Corn Meal. — A study of the table given on 
page 395 shows that there is no appreciable difference in the composition 
of white and yellow corn meal so far as the nutritive value is concerned. 
The ''nutty" flavor of the white and the peculiar flavor of the yellow 
meal are due to the presence of certain volatile bodies retained in the fat. 
Hominy, samp and granulated corn meals resemble each other in compo- 
sition. Such differences as those indicated in the table are no greater 
than might be expected iu a number of individual samples of either food 
material. 

Corn Breads and Puddings. — Since corn does not contain a true 
gluten like wheat, it cannot be used for baking ordinary bread with yeast, 
as the protein of corn is lacking in the quality of tenacity. Corn breads, 
therefore, though of great variety, fall into three classes : Those "raised" 
by air beaten into them, those "raised" by baking powder, and those 
"raised" by soda and sour buttermilk. The granular character of the 
meal favors the making of the first class; the second class is made light 
by the carbon dioxid of the baking powder or through the action of sour 
milk or soda. The simpler breads, like ash cahe, hoe cake, johnny cake, 
com dodgers, com pone, crackling com bread, are very old types, resem- 
bling the bread of the primitive peoples. 

Some of the modern methods of preparing com meal have resulted in 
a variety of foods which are both palatable and nutritious, viz. : corn 
meal muffins, corn meal rolls, soft corn bread, spoon corn bread and many 
others. 

Corn meal mush, or hasty pudding, is prepared as follows: Place 
three and one-half times as much water as meal into a double lx)iler and 
bring slowly to the boiling point, constantly stirring the mixture. Boil 
for three or four hours. When served hot with cream and milk it makes 
a nutritive diet. It is often eaten with syrup, molasses, honey and 
butter. 

Little is known regarding the change which takes place in the protein 
and fat content of corn meal during cooking, but they are doubtless much 
the same as with other cereal foods. The protein is coagulated by heat 
and the fat broken down to some extent into simpler bodies. 



398 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



The composition of corn breads, Indian pudding or "mush" and other 
cooked corn products has been worked out by Woods (17) as follows: 

COMPOSITION OF COOKED CORN PREPARATIONS, CORN MEAL, 
AND WHEAT BREAD 



Kind of Material ' 



Hominy, boiled 

Hoe Cake 

Johnny Cake 

Indian Pudding 

Parched Com 

Pop Corn 

Hulled Corp 

Granulated Corn Meal 
Wheat Bread 





Pro- 




Water 


tein 


Fat 


% 


% 


% 


79.3 


2.2 


0.2 


52.8 


4.0 


.6 


29.4 


7.8 


2.2 


60.7 


5.5 


4.8 


5.2 


11.5 


8.4 


4.3 


10.7 


5.0 


74.1 


2.3 


.9 


12.5 


9.2 


1.9 


35.3 


9.2 


1.3 



Carbohydrates 






Min- 
eral 






Starch, 




Mat- 


Sugar, 
etc. 


Crude 
Fiber 


ters 


% 


% 


% 


17.8 


0.5 


40.0 0.2 


2.4 


57.5 .2 


2.9 


27.5 


1.5 


72.3 


2.6 


77.3 1 1.4 


1.3 


22.2 


.5 


74.4 


1.0 


1.0 


52.6 


.5 


1.1 



Fuel 

Value 

per 

pound 



Cal. 

380 

885 
1,385 

815 
1,915 
1,880 

490 
1,655 
1,205 



Green Corn. — Green corn furnishes an excellent food product in the 
milky stage and during the growing season. During this time the ker- 
nels are sweet and tender and possess a pleasing flavor. Green corn is 
gathered from the fields and gardens in July, August and September. In 
chemical composition and in fuel value it compares favorably v^th the 
potato as a food, having 73 per cent water, to 75 per cent in the potato. 
Sweet corn contains 13.5 per cent starch, 6 per cent sugar and 5 per 
cent protein. Green corn may be prepared by boiling ^^on the cob,'' or 
it may be cut from the cob and boiled in milk, mixed with snap beans or 
tomatoes, or boiled with lima beans, making the well-known dish succotash. 
The green ears in their shucks as they come from the stalk may be roasted 
in the fire. These are called "roasting ears," and are delicious. 

OATS.— Oats were defined by the lexicographer Johnson as "food for 
horses in England and men in Scotland." A canny Scotchman, reading 
the definition, remarked: "Hoot, mon! there are no such horses as they 
have in England nor such brawny men as in old Scotland." 

In the ordinary process of harvesting and threshing oats the outer 
husk or hull is not removed, and so oats, unlike other cereals, comes to 
the market with the chaff still attached. 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



399 



Composition of Oats. — The composition of oats according to the 
analysis of one thonsand samples by Ballard (from Tibbies) and of oat- 
meal by Dyer, same source, shows the following percentage of the various 
elements entering into its composition ; 

COMPOSITION OF OATS AND OAT PRODUCTS 



Oats 

Oatmeal, fine.. . 
Oatmeal, coarse 
Crushed Oats . . 



Water 



9.8 to 17 
8.2 to 9.5 

7.9 to 9.1 
8.1 to 8.9 



Fat 



2.8 to 6.83 
8.0 to 12.33 
8.7 to 10.32 
7.5 to 9.3 



Nitrog- 
enous 
Matters 



7.1 to 14.3 
12.9 to 18.1 
13.0 to 15.4 
12.6 to 15.1 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



55.69to64.3 
54.0 to65.6 
64.5 to65.2 
65.2 to67.0 



Cellulose 



7.0 to 12.2 



Ash 



1.5 to 3.9 
1.7 to 4.0 
1.7 to 1.9 

1.6 to 1.9 



From a study of this table it will be noted that oats contain more fat 
than wheat or barley, and that the protein content is high. The starch 
grains are small, compressed, faceted and tend to adhere in masses. The 
value of oatmeal as an energy provider, according to Parkes, may be 
understood by considering the energy in foot tons of work developed by 
the complete oxidation of an ounce of the following foods; 

Potato 33 foot tons per ounce 

Eggs 68 " " " " 

Bread 88 " " " 

Cooked Meat 106 " " " " 

Pea Flour 119 " " " 

Oatmeal 130 " " " 

Cheese 150 " " " " 

Butter 339 " " " " 



Oatmeal. — Oatmeal, like other cereals, contains valuable cereal salts. 
The proportion of these ingredients, according to Blythe's analysis, is as 
follows: In one hundred parts of salts potassium constitutes 17 per 
cent; sodium, 2.24 per cent; calcium, 2.74 per cent; magnesium, 7.6 per 
cent; ferric oxid, 0.67 per cent; phosphoric acid, 23.03 per cent; sul- 
phuric acid, 1.36 per cent; silica, 44.73 per cent, and chlorin, 0.58 per 
cent. Of all grains oats are the richest in phosphates, giving them addi- 
tional value as a food in cases where phosphates are indicated, as in 
struma, tuberculosis and rickets. It is one of the most valuable foods we 



400 VEGETABLE FOODS 

possess and ranks very high both as a flesh former and energy producer. 
At the same time it is one of the most economical of foods. 

Oatmeal is rich in heating and fattening principles. With milk, 
cream or butter it forms an ideal porridge. Its stimulating properties 
render it a highly useful nutriment for persons engaged in mental work. 

In order to be digested with ease, oatmeal should be thoroughly 
cooked, longer than the thirty or forty minutes usually suggested. Ex- 
periments (made at the Minn. Exper. Station, Bull. ]^o. 74, U. S. Dep. 
Agric.) show that when oatmeal is cooked for four hours or longer the 
diastase ferment acts on it more readily and as a result it is more easily 
digested than when cooked for one-half an hour. Since there is no gluten 
in oatmeal, ordinary bread cannot be made from it. The Scotch people 
make bread from oatmeal by the aid of fermentation. This produces a 
bread soft in texture and wholesome. Scotch cakes are made unfermented 
and are either baked or roasted flat. They are hard to digest. Oatmeal 
is one of the few vegetable foods which contains appreciable quantities of 
uric acid formers (purin bodies). Therefore, it will be well to forbid 
its use in cases of gout. 

RYE.— Rye is extensively used for breadmaking in many European 
countries, especially France, Germany and Russia. It is not a very an- 
cient cereal and was unknown before the Christian era. Rye is grown 
in the United States and is used mainly as a food for stock and for 
making whiskey. The rye grain has a structure similar to that of wheat. 
It is clean and free from husks when threshed. 

Component Elements of Rye. — In composition it has the following 
percentages of its component elements, viz. : water, 8.7 per cent ; protein, 
11.30 per cent; fat, 1.90 per cent; carbohydrates, 74.50 per cent; cellu- 
lose, 1.50 per cent, and ash, 2.10 per cent. The starch is similar to that 
of wheat flour. The grain is only slightly larger than wheat. The pro- 
teins average about 11 per cent of the weight of the flour. Rye bread is 
usually made from a straight grade of flour, although white, intermediate 
and dark flours are manufactured. It is estimated that 20 per cent of the 
protein in rye bread escapes digestion. Rye bread somewhat resembles 
whole wheat bread in color and texture, but is less nourishing. In Ger- 
many the black bread made from rye and known as pumpernickel is the 
common food for the working people. This is a sour dough bread in 
which fermentation is started with a piece of dough left over from a pre- 
vious batch. It is not a very nourishing food as far as protein digesti- 
bility is concerned. Sometimes the loss of protein during digestion is as 
much as 42 per cent as compared with 20 per cent loss in the case of 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 401 

wliite wheat bread. The malted and fenneiited rye is a common source 
for the manufacture of alcoholic liquors, more especially in the manufac- 
ture of rye whiskey. In Kussia the national drink, vodka, is made from 
rye. 

BARLEV.— -Barley is one of the most ancient of cultivated plants and 
is chieliy characterized by its richness in mineral matter. It contains 
more fat than wheat, but is poorer in protein. The percentage of starch 
varies in different samples from 3U per cent to .57 per cent. 

Composition of Barley. — According to Wynter and Blyth its com- 
position is as follow^s: water, 15. OG per cent; protein, 11.75 per cent; 
fat, 1.71 per cent; carbohydrate, 70.9 per cent; fiber, 0.11 per cent, and 
ash, 0.47 per cent. The principal cereal salts in barley are the phosphates 
of potassium, iron and silicon. The character of barley starch is almost 
identical with that of wheat. Barley meal was formerly (1626) exten- 
sively used for making bread by the peasants or serfs of England. In 
early times a fairly good bread was produced by the addition of a small 
amount of wheat flour. This was a common foodstuff of the peasantry 
down to the reign of Charles I. It was also the principal bread food 
among the poor population of the mountainous districts of Sweden, 
Switzerland and Scotland. Since barley contains no gluten it does not 
make good bread. Barley meal makes an excellent demulcent drink for 
invalids and children. As a dietetic article in the sick room, barley finds 
its chief use as barley water, a product which contains but little nutri- 
ment as shown by the following analysis by Wynter and Blyth : 

Water 99.27 per cent Starch 0.39 per cent 

Fat 0.22 " Sugar 0.05 " 

Protein 0.03 " Mineral matter 0.03 " 

Pearl Barley. — Pearl barley is the whole grain polished by attri- 
tion after removal of the husk. IluUed harley looks not unlike rice, and 
may be used in a similar way, though in this shape its most general use 
is as an adjunct to soups. 

MILLET.— Millet is the smallest of the cereal grains. It is not used as 
a cereal food for man in the United States, although it is produced as a 
food for stock. It is grown extensively in Africa, India, China, Japan 
and Korea, where it is made into bread. The millets are an important 
source of food for man. It is estimated that this cereal is a source of 
food for one-third the inhabitants of the earth. It is the commonest 



402 VEGETABLE FOODS 

grain food of Africa, where it is the staple diet of the negroes of the 
upper Nile. 

Varieties of Millet. — There are several varieties of the grain. Its 
cultivation is prehistoric; the evidences of its existence have been found 
in lake dwellings of the Stone Age. There is evidence that it formed one 
of the chief foods in China 2700 b. c. Some of the varieties were grown 
4,000 years ago by the Greeks and Eomans. The principal varieties are : 
(a) foxtail millet, (h) barnyard millet, (c) broom corn millet, (d) Indian 
millet, (e) sweet sorghum millet. Many other varieties are grown in Asia 
and Africa. 

Composition of Millet. — An analysis of millet by Professor Church 
shows the foHowing: 

Water 12.2 per cent Carbohydrate 70.5 per cent 

Protein 8.2 " Cellulose 3.1 " 

Fat 4.2 " Mineral matter 1.7 " 

The starch is similar to that of wheat, but the protein content does not 
include the whole nitrogen content of the grain. Millet bread is not so 
good as wheaten bread, but is very nutritious. Its flour makes excellent 
puddings and is largely used in combination with milk in countries where 
it is extensively cultivated. As a source of nitrogen it occupies a place 
second to wheat and rice. 

pROSO Millet. — Proso millet is a hardy cereal grain milled like the 
other cereals. The peculiar agricultural advantage of this cereal is that 
it is drouth resistant. Proso will grow where the staple small grains which 
require a moist soil fail. The seed of proso millet, although practically 
unknown in America as a food for human consumption, is a familiar arti- 
cle of diet in Russia and India. It is said that during the Russian famine 
of 1890 proso millet bread was for a long time the only food remaining 
between the peasantry a,nd starvation. The grain can be milled and 
cooked in the same way as are other cereals. The composition of hulled 
proso is much like that of patent flour, being even richer in protein. The 
grain can be used whole, ground like corn meal and thus made into pal- 
atable dishes or used as flour. The lack of gluten makes it necessary to 
combine proso with wheat flour if it is to be converted into a good bread. 

A public test of proso as a table cereal was oflicially made by Nan- 
sen (18) at the South Dakota State College of Agriculture early in 1915, 
so that it has already had an official introduction. From the standpoint 
of practical agriculture proso deserves consideration because, like kafir 
com, it represents a crop which can be produced in a dry season or in arid 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 403 

regions where the attempt to raise the more popular cereals is often dis- 
couraging. 

KAOLINCJ.— Kaoling is a droutli-reHiHtant grain of the sorghum family, 
long used in Africa, India and Asia (10) as a foodstuff. Kaoling can 
be grown in any climate where Indian corn is indigenous, and can by care- 
ful selection be extended as far north as Canada on this continent. Speci- 
mens of hardy kaoling from (liina reached America as early as 1800, 
but were discarded because they seemed of no value for sugar making. 
This was the sole use to which the sorghum plant was put at that time. 
Sorghum seed can be milled; when mixed with gluten-yielding flours 
kaoling contributes to the production of palatable baked products as does 
kafir flour, lately exploited as a human food(20). The proso and kaoling 
flours are the newest cereal flours for bread making in this country. Even 
cottonseed flour has been used in an attempt to make bread. \Vlien glu- 
tinous adjuvants are supplied to cereals poor in them, and when science 
becomes engaged in the art of bread making, new bakery products are 
likely to arise. 

QUINOA.— Quinoa (hi-no-a) or "petty rice" is the seed of cTienopodhim 
quinoa. There are two varieties : one colored, with a green leaf, the other 
with green leaves and white grain. Both are of American origin and are 
very ancient. These seeds form one of the staple foods of New Granada, 
the table lands of Mexico, Chili and Peru, where its cultivation was car- 
ried on for many centuries before the Spanish conquest. The plant is an 
annual herb which grows from four to six feet in height. It will flourish 
on an elevation 13,000 feet above the sea level. The white grain quinoa 
is the most farinaceous. The grains are eaten in soup and the flour is 
made into unleavened cakes. 

Composition of Quinoa. — The starch granules are the smallest of 
any known cereal. The protein percentage is high, with a moderate 
amount of fat. The ash is said to contain more iron than any other vege- 
table. The leaves of the green plant are eaten as spinach. Voelcker gives 
the following composition of quinoa : 

COMPOSITION OF QUINOA, NUTRIENTS, PER CENT 

Dry Seeds Flour 

Nitrogenous matters 22.86 19 

Starch 58.60 60 

Fat 5.74 5 

Celhilose 9.74 

Water 16 



404 VEGETABLE FOODS 

BUCKWHEAT.— Buckwheat is a native grain of Manchuria and Cen- 
tral Siberia. Its cultivation is not ancient, for the Chinese author who 
first mentioned it lived in the tenth century of the Christian era. It was 
certainly unknown to the ancient Greeks and Romans, ^ot until the 
middle ages was it grown in Europe and Russia. Buckwheat is now cul- 
tivated extensively in the New England States, New York, Pennsylvania 
and in New Brunswick. The buckwheat grain is a brown-colored, three- 
sided seed. The flour is dark in color and is made by grinding the grain 
between stones and separating the principal part of the hulls by bolting. 
A finer grade of flour may be produced by the use of more elaborate ma- 
chinery. Flour made in the old-fashioned way is not so white, but is more 
nutritious and palatable than the new product. 

Use of Buckwheat Flour. — Buckwheat flour is used, especially in 
Holland and the United States, for pan cakes and griddle cakes. The 
batter is raised with yeast, for the flour contains enough of a glutinous 
substance to entrap the bubbles of gas, and is usually allowed to stand 
over night. The ^'leaven'' left over from one batch will be quite sufficient 
to start the next. Buckwheat cakes are served hot and eaten with syrup 
or honey and butter. 

Composition of Buckw^heat Flour. — Buckwheat flour, according 
to Atwater, has the following composition: water, 13.9 per cent; protein, 
6.4 per cent; fat, 1.2 per cent; carbohydrate, 77.00 per cent, and mineral 
matter, .60 per cent. This analysis shows it to be a highly nutritious 
food. 

CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS 

Cereal Breakfast Foods. — During the past twenty years the ^^hurry up'' 
American breakfast has created a demand for a concentrated form of 
nourishment easily prepared or ready to serve. 

IMPORTANCE OF CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS.— The cereal breakfast 
foods commonly used in the United States are manufactured principally 
from wheat, corn, oats, barley and rice, with occasional additions from 
other sources. In other parts of the world millet, rye, buckwheat, kafir 
corn and other cereals, cooked into porridge, are extensively used. An 
idea of the importance of cereal breakfast foods may be obtained from 
Bulletin No. 13, part ix, p. 1345, United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Bureau of Chemistry. Vegetable foods, including flour, bread 
and other cereal foods, furnish 55 per cent of the total food; 39 per cent 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 405 

of the protein ; 8 per cent of the fat and 95 per cent of the total carbo- 
hydrates of the American diet. The percentage amounts which cereal 
foods aloiio supplied wen? 22 per cent of tlie total food; 'M per cent of the 
protein; 7 per cent ol' the fat and 55 per cent of the total carbohydrates — 
that is, about 75 per cent of the vegetable protein, 50 per cent of the car- 
bohydrates and 78 per cent of the vegetable fat was supplied by cereals. 
Their number is legion, and no class of foodstuffs has been more exten- 
sively or ingeniously advertised than the cereal breakfast foods. The 
majority of these fall into one of three groups, (a) those which are pre- 
pared by simply grinding the grain, (h) those which have been steamed 
or otherwise partially cooked and then ground or rolled, and (c) those 
which have been acted upon by malt which induces more or less chemical 
change in the starch present. 

Uncooked and Partially Cooked Cereaxs. — The use of cereals as 
porridge is of special interest, as it was the forerunner of cereal break- 
fast foods and until recently cereals intended for porridge were simply 
husked and more or less crushed. Such products required long, slow 
cooking. The earliest of the cereal breakfast foods which came into gen- 
eral use in the United States were of this class. Oats coarsely ground 
are the most commonly eaten. Uncooked wheat does not seem to be gen- 
erally used for preparing a breakfast dish, though corn meal porridge 
and hominy have long been and still are popular. The old-fashioned 
hulled corn, sometimes called lye hominy, is still a popular dish in some 
sections of the country. It is prepared by steeping the grains of corn in 
a solution of lye made by percolating water through wood ashes. This 
loosens the skin or hull of the grain. When these drop off, the skinned 
grains are soaked in fresh water, which must be repeatedly changed. This 
process produces a hominy of a peculiarly attractive and inviting flavor. 

When the use of cereal breakfast foods became general the raw prod- 
ucts were largely replaced by partially cooked cereals. Of these the so- 
called raw oats and wheat are typical examples. In these products more 
or less of the cooking is done at the factory. They are alleged to surpass 
the simpler or raw products in food value. The manufacture of malted 
and otherwise specially prepared cereal foods is a later development. 
The manufacturers claim that they are an improvement over the so-called 
rolled products. 

The Health Department of the City of New York has recently issued 
a bulletin showing the cost of cereal foods, the price per pound and cost 
of 1,000 calories, which is included herewith: 



406 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



COST OF CEREALS 

Cost of 1,000 Price per 

Calories, Pound, 

Cents Cents 

Com meal, in bulk 3.6 6 

Hominy, in bulk 3.6 6 

Broken rice, in bulk 3.7 6 

Oatmeal, in bulk 3.8 7 

Samp, in bulk 4.2 7 

Quaker Oats, in package 4.4 8 

Macaroni, in package 4.5 13 

Wheat flour, in bulk 4.6 8 

Malt breakfast food, in package 4.8 14 

Pettijohn, in package 5.3 12 

Cream of wheat, in package 5.7 10 

Farina, in package 5.9 12 

Cracked wheat, in bulk 5.9 10 

Pearl barley, in package 6.0 10 

Barley flour, in bulk 6.1 10 

Whole rice, in bulk 6.1 10 

Wheatena, in package 8.1 14 

COST OF READY-TO-SERVE CEREALS 

Cost of 1,000 Price per 

Calories, Pound, 

Cents Cents 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 7.8 13 

Grape Nuts 8.6 15 

Force 9.4 16 

Com Flakes 11.7 20 

Puffed Rice 23.5 52 

Manufacture of Eeady to Eat Cereals. — The "ready to eat" 
preparations are manufactured in many ways. Some are cooked in water 
and then dried and crushed; some are made of a mixture of different 
grains; some have common salt, malt, sugar, molasses or other carbo- 
hydrate material added ; some products have a flake-like appearance, while 
others have the appearance of dried crumbs. The shredded preparations 
are made with special machinery which tears the steam-cooked kernels 
into shreds and deposits them in layers or bundles. Many of the "ready 
to eat" breakfast cereals are parched or toasted before packing. This 
gives them a darker color and makes them crisp. In the malted or pre- 
digested preparations, malt or some similar enzyme is added during the 
process of manufacture. This ferment has under certain conditions a 
power of changing starch into various soluble forms such as dextrin and 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



407 



maltose. How inuch of the starch is actually changed in the malted 
cereals, and whether it is desirable to have it so changed outside of the 
body, are debatable questions. Some of the cereal foods are prepared by 
being subjected to dry heat. This is the case with puffed wheat, rice and 
other products of this class. Briefly speaking, the breakfast cereal f(X)ds 
contain about the same amount of nutriment as the cereals from which 
they are made. 

The following table (taken from Farmers' Bulletin No. 219, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture) shows the average composition of the various sorts 
of cereal breakfast foods: 

TOTAL NUTRIENTS AND FUEL VALUE OF CEREAL BREAKFAST FOOD 



Kind of Food 



Water 


Protein 


Fat 


% 


% 


% 


11.0 


11.8 


5.0 


7.3 


16.1 


7.2 


8.2 


16.1 


7.4 


7.9 


16.2 


5.2 


10.5 


11.9 


2.1 


10.1 


11.1 


1.7 


10.6 


10.2 


1.8 


9.4 


12.2 


1.4 


9.0 


12.1 


1.4 


5.6 


12.2 


1.0 


10.9 


11.0 


1.4 


11.6 


10.6 


1.7 


11.1 


10.0 


1.4 


10.9 


12.4 


1.8 


11.5 


8.5 


1.1 


13.6 


6.4 


1.2 


11.3 


3.3 


.3 



Carbohydrates 


Ash 


Nitro- 




gen- 
Free 
Extract 


Fiber 




% 


% 


% 


59.7 
66.5 


9.5 
.9 


3.0 
1.9 


65.2 
66.7 


1.3 
1.6 


1.8 
2.4 


71.9 

73.8 


1.8 
1.7 


1.8 
1.6 


74.1 


1.8 


1.5 


72.7 


1.9 


2.4 


73.0 
77.6 
75.9 


1.8 

1.7 

.4 


2.7 

1.9 


72.5 
71 


1.7 
5.8 


1.9 
1.7 


69.8 
77.5 


2.7 
.3 


2.4 
1.1 


77.5 

84.6 


.4 
.1 


.9 
.4 



Fuel 
Value 

per 
pound 



Oats: 

Whole grain 

Oatmeal, raw 

Rolled oats, steam- 
cooked 

Flaked and malted oats 

Wheat: 

Whole grain 

Cracked wheat 

Rolled wheat, steam- 
cooked 

Flaked and crisped, 
ready to eat 

Flaked, crisped and 
malted, ready to eat. . 

Crumbed and malted . 

Farina 

Rye: 

Whole grain 

Flaked, to be eaten raw 

Barley: 

Whole grain 

Pearled barley 

BuckwJieat: 

Flour 

Farina 



Cals. 



1,767 

1,759 
1,709 



1,501 

1,541 

1,500 

1,526 
1,623 
1,609 

1*526 

1,514 



1,471 
1,480 



408 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



It may be said in defense of the general use of prepared breakfast 
foods sold in packages that they are cleaner, less liable to accumulate dust 
and dirt than cereals sold in bulk. On account of the general use of these 
"easy to prepare" breakfast cereal foods in the United States, the ques- 
tion of economy is to be considered. When you compare the prices of 
food sold in bulk with the price of the package product, it will be found 
that the consumer is paying luxury prices for the latter. 

The following table from Bailey summarizes the percentages of con- 
stituents contained in some of the more popular advertised American 
breakfast cereal foods: 

TOTAL NUTRIENTS AND FUEL VALUES OF POPULAR BREAKFAST 

FOODS 



Name 



Moisture 



Protein 



Total 
Carbo 
hydrates 



Crude 
Fiber 



Fat 



Ash 



Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 

Ralston 

Cracked Wheat 

Quaker Oats 

Bulk Oats 

Cerealine (from corn) 

Cream of Wheat 

Vitos (Pillsbury's) 

Wheatena 

Zwieback 

Grape Nuts. 

Toasted Corn Flakes. . . . 

Shredded Wheat 

Puffed Wheat Berries 

Holland Rusk 

Egg-0-See 

Grape Sugar Flakes 

Tryabita Food 



7.51 
9.72 
9.30 
7.40 
8.07 
9.55 

10.69 
8.74 
8.41 

10.64 
8.00 
9.63 
9.45 

10.19 
7.59 
8.24 
8.13 
9.69 



10.56 
15.10 
12.60 
17.20 
17.74 

9.90 
11.75 
12.69 
11.50 
14.31 
12.73 

9.21 
11.06 
13.06 
12.44 
10.87 
10.27 
11.81 



76.96 
71.75 
74.42 
66.65 
65.89 
78.75 
76.17 
76.56 
75.23 
68.87 
73.78 
78.31 
76.41 
73.72 
72.87 
76.15 
75.87 
72.47 



2.01 

1.55 

1.49 

1.40 

0.99 

0.72 

76.17 

76.56 

1.03 

4.21 

2.02 

0.57 

76.41 

73.72 

0.32 

1.36 

2.28 

2.57 



1.45 
1.90 
2.22 
6.08 
6.52 
1.24 
0.95 
0.98 
2.10 
0.49 
1.57 
0.54 
1.42 
1.63 
5.88 
1.18 
1.76 
1.08 



1.52 
1.53 
1.46 
1.67 
1.78 
0.56 
0.64 
1.03 
1.73 
1.48 
1.90 
1.74 
1.66 
1.61 
0.90 
2.12 
1.69 
2.77 



Differences in Composition of Breakfast Foods. — In comparing 
the chemical composition of different cereal foods it is apparent that 
while they resemble each other closely (all are rich in carbohydrates), 
still there are certain differences between them which are quite character- 
istic; thus corn is characterized by a relatively high proportion of fats; 
oats are relatively rich in both protein and fat ; wheat and rye have a high 
proportion of protein with a moderate amount of fat, while barley and 
rice products contain about the average proportions of all the nutritive 
ingredients. 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 409 

Prepared Cereal Foods. — Many of the cereal breakfast foods whicli 
are sold under various names and extravagantly advertised, are artificial 
preparations of these cereals, in the manufacture of which the cereals are 
subjected to heat and otherwise treated, so that the preparation undergoes 
certain changes intended to save labor in c(K)king and to spare the diges- 
tive organs a part of their normal work. The idea of having part of the 
process performed outside of the body is not a new one. Physicians have 
used predigcsted foods of different sorts for their patients for many years. 
Since the diastase of malt imitates the work of the diastase of the saliva 
and the pancreas so well, it is the common means of predigesting carbo- 
liydrates. It is a grave question, however, as to whether it is good for the 
hunum race to have its food partially digested before it is consumed. "It 
is not beneficial to the teeth to have only soft food to masticate, and on 
the other hand it cannot be beneficial to the stomach to have constantly 
such foods to work upon. Wliat the stomach is relieved from doing by 
choice may later become a matter of necessity." If an athlete does not 
use his muscles they will soon degenerate, become flabby and unable to do 
laborious work. In a similar way the stomach which is given labor-saving 
foods may in time be unable to perform the normal functions of diges- 
tion. Therefore a large consumption of the prepared cereal foods should 
be deprecated, since it is generally believed that the digestive organs, as 
all other organs of the body, are normally prepared to perform to advan- 
tage their several functions. We believe a well man has no more need for 
predigested food than a sound man has for crutches. 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Roots and Tubers. — From our study of cereals, we learned that the 
bulk of the grain furnished a storehouse of nutriment for the use of the 
young plant. We now turn our attention to the consideration of the roots 
and tubers which on examination may be regarded in like manner, as 
reserves of nourishment for the use of the adult plant itself. The reserve 
nutriment so laid up is almost entirely in the form of carbohydrates, 
chiefly starch. Protein and fat are only infinitestmally represented. This 
fact must not be lost sight of in estimating the value of this class of vege- 
table foods. The plants belonging to this group have different habits and 
are varied in appearance, but from the standpoint of food value their com- 
mon characteristic of producing underground parts filled with nutritious 
material, makes it convenient to group them together. In some instances 



410 VEGETABLE FOODS 

it is a true root, such as the beet, in which the plant lays up its store ; in 
others it is an underground stem, as in the case of potatoes, and again it 
is a bulb, like the onion. 

CLASSES OF ROOTS AND TUBERS.— The^e edible tubers, roots and bulbs 
naturally divide themselves into three main classes: (a) those in which 
the plant stores a comparatively large proportion of food in the form of 
sugar or other soluble carbohydrates, as the yam and sweet potato; (b) 
those in which the plant stores its food principally in the form of insoluble 
starch, the most important of the starch-bearing tubers, the white potato, 
cassava, tare tubers and yantia tubers; (c) the succulent roots containing 
a large proportion of water, such as beets, carrots, parsnips, turnips, rad- 
ishes, salsify, horse radish, onions and garlic. The tubers and root vege- 
tables contain from 70 to 90 per cent of water and from 10 to 30 per cent 
solid material, the greater part of which is some form of carbohydrate. 
They also contain a small amount of nitrogenous substance and, compared 
with other vegetables, considerable quantities of mineral matter, especially 
in the succulent roots. 

White Potato. — The potato, called in different sections white potato, 
Irish potato, English potato or round potato, was first introduced into 
England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth. A cargo of this vegetable 
was carried from Koanoke Island, Colony of I^orth Carolina, to England 
by one of Sir Walter Raleigh's ships in 1586. The American Indians 
were cultivating this tuber when the English discovered America (21). 
In former times the top of the potato blossomed and bore seeds, which pro- 
duced new varieties. The potato, modified by cultivation, has lost this 
power of bearing seeds. !N'ow the "eye" of the old tubers is planted to 
produce a new crop. 

Structure. — In structure the potato may be said to be a modified 
shortened, thickened stem which serves as a storehouse for the reserve 
material for the new young plant. The outer skin consists of a thick, 
grayish-brown, corky substance. If a cross section is made of a raw po- 
tato, three distinct parts besides the skin may be seen. The outermost 
known as the cortical layer, which is slightly colored, and denser than 
other parts of the potato; the interior or fleshy part is made up of two 
layers known as the inner and outer medullary areas. 

Composition. — In composition the potato contains the following per- 
centage of nutrient chemical elements: water, 62.6 per cent; protein, 1.6 
per cent; fat, 0.1 per cent; carbohydrates, 22.8 per cent, and mineral mat- 
ter, 0.8 per cent. The carbohydrates are by far the most abundant of the 
nutrients, with less than 5 per cent of cellulose. Other carbohydrates of 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



411 



the potato are the so-called pectose bodies. When the tubers are large and 
bulky, pectose bodies make up al)out 4 per cent of the weight of the tuber. 
Fat appears in such small quantities that it may practically be ignored in 
discussing the food value. The proteins are rather scanty as compared 
with the elements in cereals, and only about 60 per cent of the total 
amount present is true protein. The non-protein forms of nitrogenous 





Fig. 32. — ^Transverse and Lonoitudixal Sections of the Potato, (a) skin, (b) 
cortical layer, (c) outer medullary layer, (d) inner medullary area. (Bull. No. 
2d5, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 

substances in the potato are asparagin and small quantities of amino-acids 
occurring more particularly in the juice. The most important mineral 
matters found in the potato are potash and phosphoric acid compounds. 
The potato as purchased contains about 20 per cent nutritive matter, while 
rice contains about 88 per cent. In the process of cooking rice water is 
added, so if we compare four pounds of potatoes with one pound of rice 
we shall find that they are about equal in nutritive value. Four pounds 
of potatoes cost about twenty-five cents, while a pound of rice costs 
about ten cents, so there is no decided advantage in the cost of rice over 
28 



412 



VEGETABLE FOODS 




potatoes. The potato contains but little iron, calcium and phosphorus, 
the elements too often lacking in the food of children. 

Cooking of Potatoes. — Cooking improves the taste of the potato and 
at the same time prepares the starch for more complete digestion. The 
process of cooking breaks up the lamellae which hold the starch cells to- 
gether. Thus the action of the saliva on the unbroken cells, swollen by the 
process of cooking, is facilitated. The granules are rendered permeable 
by the digestive enzymes, and digestion and absorption readily take place. 
From numerous tests (22) it has been determined that 8.2 per cent of pro- 
tein is lost when the 
PR 0TEiN2.2% peeled potato is plunged 

CRUDEFiBER^Tcm^^y^ ' ^.^^^^^^^ directly into boiling wa- 

ASHiOio;^^^^ / ^""^--v^ ^^^ Whereas, if soaked 

for several hours before 
cooking, at least 25 per 
cent of the protein is 
wasted. If plunged into 
cold water and brought 
to the boiling point, 
15.8 per cent of the pro- 
tein is lost. When po- 
tatoes are boiled in 
their "jackets," the loss is only 1 per cent of protein and a little over 
3 per cent of mineral matter. 

In a series of tests made it was observed that if the nutritive material 
was to be retained in potatoes they should be boiled with their " jackets'' 
on, and removed immediately from the water to prevent them from be- 
coming water soaked. In baking potatoes very little of the nutritive ele- 
ments are lost. The starch is thoroughly cooked, since the temperature 
necessary for baking is several degrees above the boiling point. Immedi- 
ately upon its removal from the oven the baked potato should have the 
skin broken so as to allow the steam to escape and prevent the tuber from 
becoming soggy. The potato so cooked will be mealy, attractive and in a 
proper condition to be readily acted on by the digestive enzymes. 

Desiccated potatoes are prepared by slicing and drying the contents 
at not too high temperature. When dry they contain about the same con- 
stituents as the fresh potato, minus the water. They are extremely useful 
for camping parties, or at sea, or whenever it is impracticable to transport 
fresh potatoes. 

Potatoes are hy no means a perfectly well-balanced ration. In fact. 



rATOJ<^ 



Fig. 33. — Composition of the Potato. The shaded por- 
tion represents the average loss of nutrients when 
boiled. (Bull. No. 295, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 413 

they are not as satisfactory as bread, if one would live on a single food. 
As ordinarily used in conjunction with meat, milk, eggs and other varie- 
ties of food containing fat and protein in proper quantities, they are an 
extremely valuable food. They rank next to breadstuffs in Europe and 
America as a source of carbohydrate foods. The potato crop of the United 
States in 1912 was 420,(547,000 bushels. In addition there were 2,500,- 
000 bushels imported from foreign countries. 

Sweet Potato. — Sweet potatoes are grown largely in North and 
South America, Spain, Portugal, China and the East and West Indies. 
In countries where they are most abundantly grown, they provide a large 
proportion of the food for the natives. The plant belongs to the Mominrj 
Glory family ; it^ botanical name is Ipomopa batatus. It is probably a 
native of tropical America. The sweet potato grows best in loamy, sandy 
soil, in a climate where there are at least four and one-half months with- 
out frost. Each year sweet potatoes are becoming of greater importance 
as a commercial truck crop in the United States. They rank third in the 
list of the five greatest vegetable truck crops. 

Sweet potatoes do not keep as well as white potatoes and are subject 
to various diseases : black rot, soft rot, dry rot and white rot. For keeping 
they require a warm, dry atmosphere. In the South they are kept in pits 
out of doors, which must be well ventilated and protected from north- 
westerly winds. The temperature should be from 50° to 54° F. The sweet 
potato is propagated from "sets" which are grown from the mother potato. 
In the spring they are bedded in a location which will have protection 
from north winds. The bed is a manure-heated hotbed and insures quick 
propagation of the plants. 

Varieties of Sweet Potato, — There are many varieties of sweet pota- 
toes, w^hich differ in color, size and other characteristics. In the Southern 
States the sweet potato plays almost as important a part as a foodstuff 
as white potatoes do in other parts of the country. The Jersey varieties 
are very popular ; among them are the hig stem Jersey, yellow Jersey and 
red Jersey. These varieties when cooked present a dry, mealy-fleshed 
substance. In the South the most popular variety belongs to the yam 
group. This is a moist, fleshy, yellowish colored potato. Among the varie- 
ties of this latter group are the Southern Queen, the pumpkin yam, Geor- 
gia yam, the Florida yam and the red Bermuda. Of these varieties there 
are a large number of special strains known under many local names. 
The Jersey varieties are inclined to grow rather large and are poor 
keepers, becoming "punky" toward the spring. The Southern varieties 
are large, thick and blunt at the ends, the color varying from white or light 



414 VEGETABLE FOODS 

cream to an orange yellow. The Southern varieties are the most agreeable 
as food and are prepared in a variety of ways. They are made into pies, 
puddings, etc., baked or boiled or candied. The sweet potato is highly 
prized as an article of food in North and South America, China, and in 
the East and West Indies. The annual crop in the United States is 
50,000,000 bushels. 

Composition. — In composition the sweet potato is unlike the white 
potato, since it contains sugar. Sweet potatoes are wholesome and possess 
slightly laxative properties. Owing to their sweet taste they do not form 
such an appropriate accompaniment to meat as the ordinary potato. The 
varieties most esteemed for the table by those who eat freely of them are 
the varieties which contain the largest proportion of sugar. The amount 
of protein and fat is small. When cooked the carbohydrate consists of 
from 13 to 18 per cent of starch in granules. The sugar varies from 4 to 
10 per cent and is nearly all cane sugar or sucrose. Of 26 samples ana- 
lyzed by Atwater in the United States Government Laboratories there 
was found an average of only 2^/2 per cent cane sugar and 3 A per cent 
invert sugar. The total fermentable matter contained in the sweet potato 
varies from 23 to 30 per cent. They yield also a corresponding propor- 
tion of alcohol and are much used for the production of alcoholic drinks 
in the Azores. 

Digestibility, — !N^o very extensive experiments have been made with 
the sweet potato to determine its digestibility, except in Japan. Judging 
from the conclusions arrived at by the Japanese investigations, 98 per 
cent of the carbohydrates of sweet potatoes are digested. The values for 
protein were variable, but on the whole were lower in protein than white 
potatoes. It may be said of sweet potatoes that they are wholesome and 
well digested by the average man. The distress many persons suffer from 
eating the dry, mealy varieties is overcome by using large quantities of 
butter. 

Presence of Sugar.. — More than twenty-five years ago Stone (23) dem- 
onstrated the presence of sucrose or cane sugar in sweet potatoes. This is 
one of the more complex sugars in which the molecules are so bound that 
they do not reduce Fehling's solution. On the contrary, later observers 
have found reducing sugars present. 

Interesting experiments have proven that in the tuberous root of the 
sweet potato, as in the resting storage organs of other plants of temperate 
regions, starch is transformed into sugar. In most plants the transforma- 
tion of starch into sugar ceases at a few degrees above the freezing point. 
The sweet potato is an exception to this rule. Soon after the tuber has 



f>07:4ro . 







s3 o^^/?or^//v. 



^J^ 233% 










y.jt^^s/y 



(^o/ai£ 







^0/?T/0/Vj 









O.P^^j^Ti 



32.0% 09/Fso/yyo^/97'^ 27:-^% 



0-7^^S/y 



C/ISS/1K4 



/./^/9s/y 







Fig. 34. — Composition of Common Stabchy Root Vegetables. These outline figures 
show diagrammatical ly the proportion of nutrients present. Plain white indicates 
water and the differently shaded portions protein, fat, carbohydrates and ash re- 
spectively. (Bull. No. 468, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 

415 



416 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



been gathered, transformation of starch into sugar takes place at mucli 
higher temperatures (86° E.). 

Two competent observers, Hasselbring and Hawkins (24), record an- 
other interesting peculiarity of the sweet potato. Except in soft-wooded 
trees reducing sugars have been observed as the usual and most abundant 
products of starch transformation in resting storage organs. On the con- 
trary, little reducing sugar results from this transformation in the sweet 
potato, the principal product being sucrose. 

It would be pleasant to believe that all these researches might have a 
practical, a gastronomic, outcome. At its best and rightly cooked (baked 
"in its jacket," so that the rich, black, syrupy juice is incrusted wherever 
the cook's fork has pricked it), this vegetable is a unique delicacy. As it 
reaches our JSTorthern markets, or at any rate, our Northern tables, how- 
ever, it is too often dry and insipid. 

Composition of Sweet and White Potatoes. — Considering both 
composition and digestibility it may be said that the nutritive value of 
the sweet potato is much the same as the white potato, although there are 
important differences between them. The average composition of sweet 
potatoes raw and cooked is given in the following table by Lang- 
worthy (25) : 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF SWEET AND WHITE POTATO 



Kind of Potato 



Sweet potatoes (edible por- 
tion) 

Sweet potatoes (as pur- 
chased) 

Sweet potatoes (cooked) . . 

Sweet potatoes (canned) . . 

White potatoes (edible por- 
tion) 

White potatoes (as pur- 
chased) 



Ref- 
use 



% 



20.0 



20.0 



Water 



% 
69.0 

55.2 
51.9 
55.2 

78.3 

62.6 



Pro- 
tein 



% 
1.8 

1.4 
3.0 
1.9 

2.2 

1.8 



Fat 



Sugar, 

Starch, 

etc. 



% 
0.7 

.6 

2.1 

.4 

.1 

.1 



Carbohy- 
drates 



% 
26.1 



Crude 
Fiber 



21.9 
42.1 



40.6 
18.0 



% 
1.3 

.8 
.4 



14.7 



Ash 



% 
1.1 

.9 

.9 

1.1 

1.0 



Fuel 

Value 

per 

pound 



Cals. 

570 

460 
925 

820 

375 
310 



Jerusalem Artichoke. — The Jerusalem artichoke is a tuber of the 
sunflower family. It was introduced into Europe in 1616. Indigenous 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 417 

to Canada and the upper Mississippi Valley, artichokes were cultivated 
by the American Indians before the discovery of America. Although the 
tubers contain no starch they possess a considerable amount of sugar, esti- 
mated by Wiley at 1().!)3 per cent. They contain 2 per cent of inulin, 
which is not very soluble, but is isomeric with starch ; also pcctose bodies, 
1.3 per cent, which cause them to be mucilaginous when boiled. \Vlien 
Ix^iled in water or milk and eaten with white sauce, pepper and salt, they 
are tasty and nutritious. They may also be cooked with meats and stews, 
and in various highly seasoned dishes in which condiments counteract the 
griping tendency of the tuber. They are wholesome, nourishing and fat- 
tening, and are recommended by von Noorden in diabetes, since they are 
better borne than any other carbohydrate. 

Taro Tubers. — Taro tubers have from time immemorial been an im- 
portant foodstuif for the natives of various countries. They are at present 
one of the most commonly cultivated tuber crops in the tropics, in Japan, 
China, Austria, Hawaiian Islands, Asia, India and Africa. Their culti- 
vation is very ancient. They were grown in China 100 b. c. They con- 
tain a large amount of starch, some cane sugar and protein of an albu- 
minoid nature. The roots are tuberous, varying in shape and appearance 
from a yam to a sweet potato, which they resemble in nutritive value. 
Although they make a good substitute for them, taro tubers are in no way 
superior to the more familiar vegetable, the sweet potato. The Hawaiians 
eat them in the form of a sticky, doughy-like dish, which ferments and is 
called poi. It is pinkish lavender in color. The taro tuber is said to be 
a suitable aliment for persons suffering with gastric ailments. 

The Yautia. — The yautia botanically is closely related to the taro, 
though it belongs to a different group. It is a very important starchy food 
in the West Indies, where it is known by a variety of names, as taniers, 
cocoes, laye, etc. The cultivated varieties do not produce seed, although 
they put out abortive blossoms. The plants grow luxuriously in any moist 
region free from frost and produce bountiful crops in return for compara- 
tively little labor. In Porto Rico every small farmer has a small plot 
planted in yautias, and next to sweet potatoes and yams they are the most 
important native food crop. The vegetable may be prepared like sweet 
potatoes in a number of appetizing ways. For their chemical composition 
and fuel value see table on page 418. 

Stachys. — Stachys is a small perennial belonging to the mint family 
and produces just below ground a multitude of small \vhite, crisp, edible 
tubers varying in size from an inch to two and a half inches long and one- 
half an inch in thickness, having an irregular corkscrew form. They are 



418 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



prepared for the table like other vegetables or may be eaten raw like 
radishes. 

Composition' of Starch-Bearing Roots. — The percentage composi- 
tion of cassava, taro, yautia, etc., is given in the following table (26) to- 
gether with that of potatoes for comparison: 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF SOME TROPICAL STARCH-BEARING ROOTS 





Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Total Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
pound 


Kind of Food 


Sugar, 

Starch, 

etc. 


Crude 
Fiber 


Sweet cassava 


% 
66.0 
10.5 
10.5 
10.3 
70.9 
72.9 
70.0 
91.6 
78.6 
78.3 


% 
1.1 
.5 
9.1 
1.1 
1.8 
1.8 
2.2 
1.8 
2.7 
2.2 


% 
0.2 

.1 

.3 

.2 

.2 

.2 

.2 
0.08 
0.01 

.1 


% 
30.2 


% 
1.8 


% 
0.7 

.1 
1.1 
1.6 
1.2 

.9 

.9 
0.61 
1.2 
1.0 


Calories 
610 


Cassava starch. 


88.8 
79.0 


1,625 


Cassava bread 


1,650 


Cassava cakes or wafers . . 
Taro 


85.2 
23.2 
23.2 
26.1 
4.6 
17.0 
18.0 


1.6 
.8 
.6 
.6 
0.9 
0.4 
.4 


1,670 
475 


Yams 


475 


Yautia tubers 


535 


Artichokes. . . 




Stachys 




Potatoes 


375 







COMMON SUCCULENT ROOT VEGETABLES.— There are a number of 
common succulent root vegetables which resemble each other in so many 
points that they may be conveniently grouped together for consideration 
as to their value as nutrient vegetable foods. The following is a list named 
in the order of their prominence, viz. : heets, carrots, parsnips, turnips, 
radishes, etc. In some instances the leaves and stems when young and 
tender are used as pot herbs or "greens." 

There are quite a number of these roots, closely resembling one another 
in general character, grown for the table in European countries and often 
seen in the United States. With the varieties named above, parsnips, 
chervil, Spanish salsify and Tettow turnips may be cited as examples. 
Among the succulent roots used in Oriental countries, but rarely used by 
the western races, are the following: arrowhead, sacred locust and water 
chestnut. 

Of the bulbs used as foodstuffs in the United States, various members 
of the onion family are the only ones which deserve special mention, 
though lily bulbs of different varieties are eaten by the Chinese. 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE iOODS 



419 



lettuce: 

AS Type c^if>^ y^GST/iBLe, 



CAUU^LOWEf? 

^5 Typf or rLoy^s^^ /y£>iO. 




VATER -34.7 '^ 

:'PR07TW /,2% 

F/\T' 0.3% 

CAPBO- 

MyD/^477ES—2.9 
W5^ 0.9 % 

f(ja. y^Ci/e P£P PCXJA/O: 90 C4LOP/£->S, 




\PROT£/f^-'-/. e% 

^^FAT- O. sin 

"CAPBO- 

HyOMr£S-4. 7% 
ASH O. 796 

FUet VAlue /3Se PO</A^D: /40 CA10P/£S. 



FOP coA^/='^/?/^o/v: 




WATFP 87. 0<^, 

PPOTF/Af- -—3.3%\ 

L.^F/iT- 4.0 J^ 

Y-~CAPBO- 

HyDPATFS- --5.0% 
ASH- 0.7<J^ 



FUFL VALOF PFP POUAfO: 32S CALOP/FS. 



^S TYPF OF Sr^L/f I^FGFT^IBLF''. 



AS rypF oFFPu/r lABserABiF, 




WATEP 94.34> 

-PP07E/H— -0.9^0 

FAT- 0.4*^^ 

CAPBO- 

HyV/347rS-3.9 96 
,4S//— o.sj(> 

Fl/FL \/ALUFFE/? POUA/B: /O^ CALOP/FS. 




■94.0<^ 
'TF/H—/.&^ 

T- 0.2% 

PAF^O- 

//yz?p>A7Fs-3.39i 

/fSH- C?.7^ 



FUEL MlUE PEP fiO(/A//): /CI5 CALOP/ESs 



Fig. 35. — Composition of Some Succulent Vegetables as Compabed with Mil^ 
(From Yearbook of Dept. Agric, 1916.) 



420 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



Composition of Succulent Roots. — The following table (27) shows 
the composition of the nutritive elements of the succulent roots, tubers and 
bulbs in common use as foodstuffs, as well as the composition of potato, 
which is included for purposes of comparison : 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF SUCCULENT ROOTS, TUBERS, AND BULBS 



Root, Tuber or Bulb 



Beets, fresh 

Beets, cooked 

Celery 

Carrots, fresh 

Carrots, desiccated 

Parsnips 

Salsify "Oyster Plant"... 

Black Salsify 

Radishes 

Turnips, white 

Turnips, yellow (ruta-ba- 



Kohl-rabi 

Onions 

Gadic 

Potatoes 

Arrowhead Tubers. 



Ref- 
use 



% 
7.0 



20.0 
20.0 

20.0 
24.0 
20.0 



10.0 

10.0 
20.0 
30.0 



20.0 



Water 



% 
87.5 
88.6 
84.1 
88.2 

3.5 
83.0 
85.4 
80.4 
91.8 
89.5 

88.9 
91.1 
87.6 
64.7 

78.3 
66.88 



Pro- 
tein 



% 
1.6 
2.3 
1.5 
1.1 
7.7 
1.6 
4.3 
1.0 
1.3 
1.3 

1.3 
2.0 
1.6 
6.8 
2.2 
8.42 



Fat 



% 
0.1 

.1 

.4 

.4 

.6 

.5 

.3 

.5 

.1 

.2 

.2 
.1 
.3 
.1 
.1 
1.22 



Edible Por- 
tion Carbo- 
hydrates 



Sugar, 

Starch, 

etc. 



% 



Crude 
Fiber 



7.4 

11.8 

8.2 

80.3 
11.0 

6.8 
17.1 

5.1 

6.8 

7.3 

4.2 

9.1 
27.9 
18.0 
22.19 



% 
0.9 

1.4 
1.1 

2.5 
2.0 
2.3 

.7 
1.3 

1.2 
1.3 



.4 

.98 



Ash 


% 


1.1 


1.6 


.8 


1.0 


4.9 


1.4 


1.2 


1.0 


.1 


.8 


1.1 


1.3 


.6 


1.5 


1.0 


2.04 



Fuel 
Value 

per 
pound 



Gals. 
215 
185 
285 
210 

1,790 
300 
250 
390 
135 
160 

185 
145 
225 
650 
375 



Nutritive Food Value. — In common with other starchy vegetables 
this class of foodstuffs contains large quantities of water and consequently 
has a low nutritive food value. The proportion of protein which it 
contains is low. Of this small amount not more than a third and fre- 
quently not more than a fifth is in a form of albumin or similar com- 
pounds. There are sugars, pectose bodies, andJn some cases pentosans. 
These constitute the reserve material which the plants have stored up in- 
stead of the starch characteristic of such roots as the white potato and 
sweet potato. These succulent vegetables differ from the white and sweet 
potato in that they possess marked flavors and odors, imparted to them 
by the small amount of volatile oils which the;^ contain. 

The succulent roots, tubers and bulbs, when considered from a stand- 
point of the nutrient elements, protein, fat and carbohydrates entering 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



421 



into their composition, are of much less impor- 
tanco to the diet than the concentrated cereal 
foods or even the starchy roots and tidKjrs. It 
may he said of them that they do furnish some 
nutritive material and are appetizing and gener- 
ally relished, while furnishing a considcrahle hulk 
to the diet, which is an important consideration 
from the standpoint of normal digestion. One of 
the most important functions of these vegetables is 
the amount of mineral salts needed for the up- 
building and repair of tissue, as well as for im- 
parting alkalinity to the blood, which they supply. 

Beets. — Beets are chiefly of value for their 
carbohydrates, consisting of sugar, starch, muci- 
lage and alkaline salts. A glance at the preceding 
table will give the percentage of their chemical 
elements. This vegetable when young and tender 
is used in its entirety. The leaves are boiled for 
^'greens." Of the total nitrogenous matter a small 
portion is protein. There are several varieties, 
varying in color from a light red or yellow to a 
deep or blackish red. Beets are extensively grown 
as a food for man and beast. The boiled roots 
form an appropriate accompaniment of roast meat. 
They may also be served cold, cut into slices, made 
into salads or pickles. They are readily digested 
by most people. Beets are more nutritious than 
turnips, parsnips or carrots. Cane sugar (see 
Volume I, Chapter XVII) constitutes a consid- 
erable portion of the carbohydrate content. Some 
reducing sugar is present. Beets are often served 
after being boiled and sliced and soaked in vine- 
gar, which assists in softening the fiber and does 
not interfere with the digestion of the other 
constituents. 

Carrots. — Carrots are grown in many vari- 
eties and vary greatly in size, color, flavor and 
other characteristics. They are a common vege- 
table all over Europe and Western Asia, where 
they have been cidtivat^d for more than 2,000 




Fig. 36. — Composi- 

TIOX OF THE CaBROT 
AND THE Loss OP 

Nutrients Whex 
Boiled. The illus- 
tration shows — (a) 
fiber, starch, fat, 
etc., (b) sugar, (c) 
nonproteid nitro- 
genous matter, (d) 
proteid nitrogenous 
matter, (e) mineral 
matter. The batched 
portion represents 
the loss when medi- 
um - sized pieces 
were boiled. (Bull. 
No. 295, U. S. Dept. 
Agric.) 



^ 



422 VEGETABLE FOODS 

years. It is alleged by Church that this vegetable was introduced into 
England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth. Those commonly raised 
are of medium size, deep yellow color, tender and have a delicate flavor. 
Young carrots are more edible and tasty than old ones. When fully 
matured they tend to become hard and woody. A glance at the table on 
page 418 shows their composition does not differ materially from other 
similar roots, carbohydrates constituting the principal nutritive material. 

Sugar is the next element of importance ; it ranges from 7 per cent or 
more. The coloring matter of carrots is due to the presence of carotin. 
This is sometimes extracted with their juice and used for coloring butter. 
Carrots resemble parsnips in composition, but they are richer in sugar 
and poorer in starch. 

Cooked carrots lose a considerable portion of their nutriment, espe- 
cially the soluble protein and carbohydrates, of which they retain little 
more than 4 per cent. It is alleged by a European investigator that when 
carrots are steamed they become soft more quickly than when cooked in 
hot water. The loss of nutrient elements is much less by the former 
method. Carrots are considered a wholesome and valuable addition to the 
diet, and as a seasoning vegetable they may be cooked in a great variety 
of ways. When the foliage of carrots is wet it gives off a poisonous 
substance, perhaps an essential oil, which produces an eczema similar to 
that produced by poison ivy. 

Parsnips. — Parsnips belong to the same botanical order as carrots and 
resemble them in form and general habit of growth. The flesh of the 
root, however, is paler, being a light cream color. The flavor is quite dis- 
tinct and well pronounced. The parsnip root is found wild in the 
meadows of Great Britain and all over Europe. It was a common garden 
vegetable among the Eomans and probably was cultivated by them more 
than 2,000 years ago. It figures in the ancient frescos of Pompeii, being 
mentioned by Dioscorides. In times of scarcity it has been used for mak- 
ing bread. This vegetable may be cooked and served in a variety of ways. 

Composition. — In composition parsnips are much like the other roots 
and tubers, but contain rather high quantities of cellulose. The amount 
of total nutritive material lost in boiling is not definitely known. The 
parsnip contains considerable nutritive material of the sugar, starch group 
and about 80 per cent of water. It is unique in containing more fat than 
other vegetables of this class. The parsnip is therefore a somewhat better 
food vegetable than a turnip or carrot. Pectose and cellulose are abun- 
dant in parsnips. The carbohydrate content averages from 13 to 14 per 
cent. It has a strong flavor which is not attractive to many people. An 



VAUIETIKS OF VKGETABLE FOODS 423 

excellent wine is made from the roots and also a fermented liquor which 
yields a spirit resembling. Aladeira in Ihivor. In Great Britain the juice 
of the parsnip is used for wine and the ferment distillation yields a po- 
table spirit. 

TuuNiPs. — Turnips are grown in great variety throughout temperate 
climates. The turnip has been cultivated in Greece since the earliest days 
of history. Tt f!:rows wild in many countries. In Uiissia it is classed as a 
luxury and is soiiietimcs eaten raw as a relisli. T\u> Laplanders are said 
to be exceedingly fond of this vegetable. 

Varieties. — There are numerous species. Special varieties of turnip 
are known as white and yellow turnips and Swedes, There is cx)nsiderable 
variation in the color, flavor and composition of the turnip. Yellow flesh 
varieties as a group are common and are distinguished from the white by 
the name of rutabagas. Solid as the turnip root appears, it contains an 
average of 89 per cent of water, a trifle more than is found in whole milk. 
Carbohydrates are the principal nutritive material ; glucose, cane sugar, 
pectose or jelly-yielding bodies, pentosans and crude fiber are the charac- 
teristic carbohydrates present. The turnip is best eaten boiled and 
mashed or made into a puree. They are also used in soups and stews. 
The turnip contains no starch and is therefore a valuable vegetable in the 
diet for diabetics. The turnip is considered a wholesome, palatable and 
useful addition to the diet. In the early spring the tender tops are much 
prized as greens or turnip salad. These young tender tops when boiled 
with a hog's jowl make an appetizing, wholesome addition to the dietary. 

Radishes. — Radishes are probably a development of the wild char- 
lock, which is an aimual weed of the old world and has been cultivated in 
gardens from the earliest historic times. There are a great number of 
varieties, varying in shape and color : white, yellow, red, black or purple. 
Some of the roots have a very fine flavor and when young are crisp, juicy 
and tender, but when old they contain much woody fiber and are diflicult 
to digest. 

Composition^ — According to analysis containe<l on page 420 it will be 
observed that the radish contains even more water than the turnip. The 
characteristic pungent flavor is due to organic compounds similar to the 
essential oil of mustard. Radishes are almost always eaten raw and are 
so succulent and tender that they are doubtless rather thoroughly assimi- 
lated. Especially when tender they are stinuilating to the stomach and 
produce a flow of saliva and gastric juice, their pungency and warmth 
encouraging appetite. This pimgency of radishes adds to their value as 
an antiscorbutic. 























ot/iscwyzi^/trs .63./ 



fZf/sz^ /»o/?r/oA/ 





/Poor C£rz.sypy^ 



/=>/?ors//\/ /.s\ 



OA//OA/ 



f!^ro.3^ 








Fig. 37. — Percentage Composition of Carrot, Onion, Beet and Other Root Vege- 
tables Compared with Each Other and with Bread. These outline figures rep- 
resent diagrammatically the proportion of nutrients present. Plain white imlicates 
water and the differently shaded portions protein, fat, carbohydrates and ash 
respectively. (Bull. 503, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 

424 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 425 

Salsify. — Salsify or oyster plant rcscinhlfs the carrot in appearance. 
It grows wild in the south of Europe and in Algeria. When tender the 
roots are considered a delicacy similar to asparagus and are eaten with 
white sauce or Icnion juica They have a flavor of oysters which has 
gained for them the name vegetable oyster. The leaves or tops are eaten 
as a salad. They may be cooked and served with sauce in the same way 
as asparagus. The principal carl)ohydrate stored in black salsify is inulin 
rather than starch, so that this vegetable is often used in the diet of dia- 
betics. 

IIoKSE Radish. — Horse radish is the root of a plant which is a native 
of Western Europe. It is extensively grown on l)oth sides of the Atlantic. 
The horse radish has a warm taste and a pungent odor which tends to 
promote appetite and the secretion of saliva. It increases gastric secre- 
tion and motility, thereby acting as a stimulant to the alimentary func- 
tions. At the same time it is a carminative and antiseptic all along the 
intestinal tract. Its antiseptic properties are due to the presence of a 
volatile oil contained in the root. This oil is obtained by distillation. It 
is pale yellow and nearly colorless, heavier than water, but very volatile, 
having a pungent, acrid taste. Horse radish contains a large amount of 
sulphur in an organized form and is a most valuable antiscorbutic condi- 
ment. In addition to its useful qualities already mentioned, it is valuable 
in the dietotherapy of cbronic rheumatism, sciatica and various dropsical 
conditions. 

Kohlrabi. — Kohlrabi, or turnip cabbage, represents a curious vari- 
ety of the turnip and cabbage families in which the reserve material of 
the plant is stored in a tuber-like enlargement of the stem just above the 
surface of the soil rather than beneath. While, strictly speaking, it does 
not belong to the class of roots and tubers, yet it is so similar to them that 
it is included in this study of succulent roots and tubers. Although it re- 
sembles them in flavor, kohlrabi is more delicate than either the turnip 
or the cabbage. As a vegetable it is at its best in the early summer, when 
it is young and tender, although it is commonly found in the markets until 
late autumn. Its chemical composition may be seen in the table on 
page 420. 

Skirret. — Skirret is a root vegetable grown in Europe, America, 
Asia, China and other countries. When boiled the roots resemble the 
parsnip and are eaten with white sauce; half boiled they are fried and 
eaten with pepper and other condiments. This vegetable was known to 
the Romans and Greeks of the middle ages. It contains considerable cane 
sugar. The roots are sweet after boiling and a fine white sugar can be 



426 



VEGETABLE EOODS 



obtained from them. Thej are esteemed for this property by some people 
who consider them the finest, whitest and pleasantest roots grown. 

Arrowhead Tubers. — Arrowhead tubers are common articles of food 
in some countries. The American Indians called it wappato. The tubers 
are small, the interior yellow, farinaceous and of the consistency of the 
potato. The high percentage of protein proves their superiority to pota- 
toes, sweet potatoes and yams. Starch is the most important carbohy- 
drate, although cane sugar is present. Their percentage composition may 
be studied on page 420. 

Dahlias. — Dahlias are more appreciated for their flowers than for 
their tubers, notwithstanding attempts have been made to introduce this 




Fig. 38. — Dasheen Plant at Brooksville, Florida. Hills as they appear at the 
time of harvest, early in November, 7^2 months after planting. One of these hills 
produced 26 pounds of corms and tubers. A good average yield, however, in rich 
soil is from 6 to 8 pounds, or 360 to 475 bushels per acre. (Yearbook for 1916, 
U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



tuber as a succulent vegetable food. The tubers are rich in carbohydrate, 
especially inulin, and contain little or no starch. They are recommended 
as an addition to the dietary for diabetics. 

Water Chestnuts. — Water chestnuts grow wild in swampy ground. 
The tubers are sweet, juicy and resemble the chestnut in flavor. They 
have a brown skin and white interior. 

Upon examination their composition has been found to be as follows : 
water, 77.29 per cent; protein, 1.53 per cent, including albuminoid, 1.16 
per cent; amids, 0.37 per cent; fat, 0.15 per cent; starch, 7.34 per cent; 
cane sugar, 6.35 per cent; reducing sugar, 1.94 per cent; fiber, 0.94 per 
cent, and ash, 1.19 per cent. The striking feature is the high proportion 
of sugars, which gives them a sweet taste and makes them of value as a 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



427 




Fkj. 39. — An Klkvkx-Poini) Hill of Dashekx C'okms and Tcijkhs, with Soil and 
IvooTS Kkmovei), in Actual Position of CIbowtii. (Yearbook for 1910, U. S. 
Dept. Agric.) 



raw food. The protein is principally albumin. The principal element in 
the ash is manganese. (Analysis by Blaisdale in Bull. 68, U. S. Dept. 
Agric. ) 

Celeriac. — Celeriac is closely related to ordinary celery. It is a cul- 
tivated variety, sometimes known as turnip-rooted celery. The roots are 



Fig. 




40. — Dasheex Cormet.s, or "Titters." Tiibers of the prade here shown are re- 
ferred to as first-grade tubers and are about two-thirds natural size. With many 
of smaller size or irregular shape, they grow clustered around one or more large 
corms. Under proper soil conditions they are of excellent quality and command a 
much better price than the smaller and irregularly shaped ones. (Yearbook for 
1916. U. S. Dept. Agric.) 
29 



428 VEGETABLE FOODS 

white, more or less globular in shape and closely resemble turnips in ap- 
pearance. This vegetable has a pronounced celery flavor and when cooked 
does not differ greatly from ordinary stewed celery. 

As will be seen by consulting Eig. 37, page 424, they have much the 
same composition as other succulent roots. 

Dasheen. — Dasheen is a vegetable of the tuber variety readily grown 
in semi-tropical climates. It is a staple food for millions of people in 
tropical countries. They have a flavor when boiled or baked simulating 
that of boiled chestnuts. Dasheens have been successfully grown in South 
Carolina and Florida. (See Figs. 39 and 40, page 427.) 

Dasheen roots are similar in composition to the potato, but contain 
more starch and protein. 

Lily Bulbs. — Lily bulbs have long been used as articles of food by 
the Orientals of several Asiatic races. They are more of a delicacy than 
a standard article of diet. The bulbs are prepared for eating by boiling 
or they may be slightly roasted and served with sugar. Prepared in this 
way, they are considered a desirable food for invalids and convalescents. 
The tuber is nourishing and wholesome, and is believed by the Asiatics 
to be of value to people suffering from pulmonary complaints. 

In composition they contain a small amount of protein, more than that 
found in potatoes. The chief carbohydrate is starch, but cane sugar is also 
found. There is an abundance of pectose-like substances. 

The Lotus. — The lotus of Asia belongs to the family of water beans 
and has been used from time immemorial as a food material by the Hin- 
doos, who regard the plant with much veneration. The lotus occupies a 
prominent place as a food in Japan, China, Indo-China and other Asiatic 
countries. There are several varieties. The roots consist of yellowish 
nodular stocks with a firm, reddish, fleshy interior. They contain an 
abundance of starch, while the amount of nitrogenous material is small, 
one-half of which is albuminoid. The roots are boiled and eaten like pota- 
toes, pickled in salt and vinegar and eaten with rice, or dried and pow- 
dered and added to soups. The lotus has a seed which when dried is eaten 
as we eat filberts or other nuts. They are also used in soup in China and 
Japan, while in Egypt they are roasted and ground into meal. The seeds 
compare favorably with beans and peas, some of which they resemble in 
flavor. They are equally nutritious. 

Sago. — Sago is the starchy substance obtained from the pith of various 
palms growing in the tropics, and while not a tuber or root it is included 
in this section for the sake of convenience. Sago starch is obtained from 
the sago palm. It is the inner pith. Each tree yields about five hundred 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 429 

pounds of this material. The pith is removed by scraping, reduced to a 
pulp, mixed with cold water and agitated until the starch falls otf. The 
starch granules of the finished product arc sago grains of large and irregu- 
lar shape, often nearly spherical. Thv grains are classed as medium and 
bullet sago. The latter is used principally for making puddings to which 
milk, eggs, butter and sugar are added. In fuel value such puddings com- 
pare favorably in nutritious value with rice pudding and are etjually suit- 
able for food. They are very easily digested and in absorption very little 
residue is left. 

TAriocA. — Tapioca is a species of manioc cassava and is derived from 
a tuberous root. Its cultivation and use are of great antiquity. The roots 
of this vegetable grow from ten to twelve inches in length and three to 
four inches in thickness, usually in clusters of three to eight in number. 

Tlie}^ are so similar to cassava in chemical composition and nutritive 
value that the reader is referred to this vegetable, described on page 418. 

Onions. — Onions, while most commonly used for flavoring purposes, 
are also used as a food. There are said to be some seventy-eight varieties of 
onions, man}^ of which are used as vegetable foods. They may be described 
as bulbs growing under ground; characterized by their strong flavor and 
odor, due to the presence of allyl sulphide a characteristic organic com- 
pound of sulphur. The common onion in its many varieties is best known 
and most used in the United States. As with most vegetables, the young 
and somewhat immature onion is preferred to the fully matured bulbs. 
The white varieties are milder in flavor than the red and yellow, and are 
generally preferred as table vegetables. 

Onions are succulent and tender and are as thoroughly digested and 
as freely absorbed as other similar vegetables. They are considered 
wholesome and have been prized since the earliest times as a valuable addi- 
tion to the diet. Their peculiar characteristic, sulphur compound, is be- 
lieved to stimulate the flow of digestive juices and to act as a mild laxa- 
tive. They impart an unpleasant odor to the breath. Since onions con- 
tain no appreciable amount of starch and an infinitesimal amount of 
sugar, they are usually allowed to diabetics. 

Their chemical composition is somewhat similar to other succulent 
roots, as will be observed by referring to Fig. 37, page 424. They contain 
rather large quantities of cellulose, more particularly in the outer layers. 

Garlic. — Garlic belongs to the onion family and is more of a condi- 
ment than a food. Its use stimulates appetite and promotes digestion, 
expelling flatus. Garlic quickens the circulation, excites the nervous sys- 
tem and acts as a tonic and carminative. In this country it is little eaten 



430 VEGETABLE FOODS 

save by the foreign population. This is perhaps unfortunate, for if rightly 
used, garlic undoubtedly adds to the palatability of salads, meats and 
other dishes. 

Shallot. — Shallot is a variety of the onion family and is much es- 
teemed in European countries for its flavoring qualities. 

GREEN VEGETABLES 

Green Veg^etables. — The leaves of green vegetables consist of a frame- 
work of fibro-cellular tissue upon which the chlorophyl-bearing protoplas- 
mic plant cells are spread out to the air and light. This breadth of sur- 
face of the green leaves is for the respiration and nutrition of the plant. 
Since respiration is the chief function of the leaves, they contain only a 
limited amount of nutriment. Green vegetables are, in no sense, like the 
roots and tubers, reserve storehouses of nutritive food elements. 

COMPOSITION OF GREEN VEGETABLES.— Green vegetables are rather 
poor in solid material, owing to the fact that water forms a high per- 
centage of their composition. The nitrogenous matters in the leaves of 
green vegetables do not exceed 2 or 3 per cent, one-half of which is pro- 
tein. The remainder consists of amids, ammonia salts,- including nitrates 
and other bases. The non-nitrogenous materials include 2.5 per cent of 
sugars, besides starch and pentosans, making a total carbohydrate content 
of 2 to 10 per cent and about 2 per cent of fibro-cellulose. 

FOOD VALUE OF GREEN VEGETABLES.— The food value of green vege- 
tables is not very great, as proven by chemical analysis, which shows them 
to be defective as a source of nutriment for man. While the value of vege- 
tables to mankind cannot be estimated in terms of protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate, yet aside from the small amount of energy they furnish, their 
chief importance is not alone the pleasing variety and palatability they 
add to the dietary, but they are a source of supply of organic acids and 
mineral salts. These ingredients render green vegetables an absolute 
necessity for our well-being. Their bulk stimulates peristalsis and main- 
tains a healthy activity of the alimentary tract. 

Travelers and sailors who go beyond the reach of fresh green vege- 
tables suffer from scurvy or other signs of ill health, due to the fact that 
they are deprived of the organic acids and vitamines contained in this 
class of food. There is no question but that many forms of ill health are 
fostered if not created by the absence of such vegetables from the dietary 
of people living both in town and country. "All vegetables contain impor- 
tant salts and mineral matter in the forms of oxalates, citrates, phosphates 
and sulphates, besides free organic acids, which play an important role in 



VARIET1P:S of vegetable foods 431 

our physiological economy." Such salts are just as important a necessity 
for our blood and secretions as the proteins for renewing our tissue and 
carbohydrates for producing? energy. Tibbies believes that these salts 
enter the vegetables from the earth by way of the vegetable roots, in the 
form of ions and circulate as ions through the plant fluids and tissues, 
and that such ionized salts are the prime sources of the great value of 
fresh vegetables to the human economy. 

Composition of Green Vegetables. — The table on page 432, taken 
partly from Hutchison, gives the composition of the various chemical 
elements found in green vegetables and the energy or fuel value in 
calories per pound. 

A well-balanced dietary contains a liberal allowance of fresh vege- 
tables, such as cabbage, cauliflower, potato, lettuce, tomatoes, celery, tur- 
nip, cucumbers, asparagus, etc., or other salads or fruits. One or more 
of these vegetables should constitute a portion of at least one meal each 
day. The mineral salts from such vegetables render the blood and urine 
more alkaline and the indigestible fiber or cellulose by its bulk acts as a 
stimulant to the movements of the alimentary tract, promotes secretion of 
the intestinal fluids and thereby counteracts a tendency toward constipa- 
tion. Fresh vegetables play an important role in the treatment of disease 
and are of especial value to people who suffer from constipation, liver dis- 
ease, gout, gravel, rheumatism, diabetes, scurvy, purpura, anemia and 
various disorders of the integumentary system. 

COOKING OF VEGETABLES.— Vegetables may be cooked by boiling, 
roasting or baking; some are equally palatable cooked either way. In 
boiling vegetables it is well to advise that they be boiled in soft water, for 
the reason that when hard water is used, a layer of lime or magnesia salts 
is deposited upon them, preventing the free penetration of heat into the 
interior. This delays the process of cooking and often spoils their ap- 
pearance. Some vegetables lose a considerable part of their nutrient com- 
pounds, especially the soluble materials, by being boiled. In these steam- 
ing is a better method. 

DIGESTIBILITY OF VEGETABLES.— Regarding the digestibility of vege- 
tables much depends upon the amount and character of their cellulose 
cjiitent. Young and tender vegetables contain very little cellulose. Slow 
growth, on the other hand, favors the formation of fibrous tissues. Per- 
sons in robust health, leading active out-of-door lives and having normal 
healthy stomachs, are able to digest vegetables easily, but in aged persons, 
in those who follow sedentary occupations, in invalids and in young chil- 
dren, the digestive functions v.re neither so powerfid nor so energetic. 



432 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



COMPOSITION OF GREEN VEGETABLES 



Vegetable 



Water 



Protein 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrate 


Ash 


% 


% 


5.8 


1.30 


0.4 


0.13 


4.7 


0.80 


3.8 


0.60 


0.3 


0.20 


3.8 


1.70 


2.6 


0.50 


0.2 


0.05 


3.4 


1.30 


5.0 


0.70 


5.0 


0.70 


8.9 


3.50 


2.6 


1.00 


0.5 


0.40 


5.8 


0.70 


3.3 


0.90 


0.8 


0.50 


7.1 


1.50 


2.3 


0.60 


4.5 


1.00 


3.7 


1.30 


2.1 


0.40 


0.7 


0.20 


2.9 


0.90 


9.0 


0.30 


3.0 


0.80 


6.0 


1.60 


5.8 


0.70 


2.9 


1.70 


7.20 


2.50 


6.30 


1.20 


9.90 


3.50 


10.60 


4.60 


3.80 


1.60 


6.30 


2.40 


5.60 


2.10 


7.10 


1.70 


6.30 


2.20 


3.80 


1.80 


4.30 


1.80 



Fiber 



Fuel 
Value 

per 
pound 



Cabbage 

Cabbage, cooked 

Cauliflower 

Sea-kale 

Sea-kale, cooked 

Spinach 

Vegetable Marrow. 

Vegetable Marrow, cooked 

Brussels Sprouts 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes, cooked 

Greens 

Lettuce. , 

Lettuce, cooked 

Leeks 

Celery 

Celeiy, cooked 

Turnip Cabbage. 

Rhubarb 

Macedoine (tinned) 

Water Cress 

Cucumber 

Cucimiber, cooked 

Asparagus 

Salsify, cooked 

Endive 

Savoys 

Red Cabbage 

Sauerkraut 

Carrot-tops 

Colewort or Collards 

Curly-kale or Greens 

Dandehon leaves 

Marigold leaves 

Parsnip leaves 

Turnip Cabbage, Kohl-rabi 

Tumip-tops 

White 

Swede 



% 
89.6 
97.4 
90.7 
93.3 
97.9 
90.6 
94.8 
99.2 
93.7 
91.9 
94.0 
82.9 
94.1 
97.2 
91.8 
93.4 
97.0 
87.1 
94.6 
93.1 
93.1 
95.9 
97.4 
91.7 
87.2 
94.0 
87.0 
90.0 
91.0 
84.00 
87.10 
82.90 
81.40 
90.00 
85.70 
87.30 
87.10 
86.70 
88.00 
86.50 



% 
1.80 
0.60 
2.20 
1.40 
0.40 
2.50 
0.06 
0.09 
1.50 
1.30 
1.00 
3.80 
1.40 
0.50 
1.20 
1.40 
0.30 
2.60 
0.70 
1.40 
0.70 
0.80 
0.50 
2.20 
1.20 
1.00 
3.30 
1.80 
1.40 
3.20 
4.50 
3.80 
2.40 
2.00 
2.00 
3.90 
2.60 
4.20 
2.50 
3.20 



% 
0.40 
0.10 
0.40 
0.40 
0.07 
0.50 
0.20 
0.04 
0.10 
0.20 
0.20 
0.90 
0.40 
0.16 
0.50 
0.10 
0.06 
0.20 
0.70 
0.70 
0.50 
0.10 
0.02 
0.20 
0.08 
0.08 
0.70 
0.19 
0.70 

.60 

.90 

1.00 



1.50 
.20 
.60 



% 
1.10 
1.30 
1.20 
0.90 
1.10 
0.90 
1.30 
0.37 
0.37 
1.10 
1.50 
1.50 
0.50 
0.90 
0.90 
0.90 
1.00 
1.30 
1.10 
1.10 
0.10 
0.50 
0.90 
2.10 
2.20 
0.60 
1.20 
1.20 
0.90 
3.10 

1.50 

2.60 
2.60 

1.30 

3.90 
4.20 



Cals. 
165 
165 
175 
175 
175 
120 
120 
120 
95 
105 
105 
275 
105 
105 
105 
85 
85 
145 
105 
110 
110 
70 
70 
110 
110 
110 
110 
110 
110 



These classes of individuals do not digest all kinds of vegetables well. 
Their digestion is slower and the motor power of their stomachs more 
feeble, so that vegetable matter may remain longer in the stomach, causing 



I 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 433 

pain or generating flatus, perhaps giving rise to other unpleasant symp- 
toms. 

Digestibility of Cooked Vegetables. — Science has established the 
fact that a well-balanced diet is composed of the proper combination of 
animal and vegetable food ; nevertheless there are individuals who cannot 
eat vegetables in their ordinary form after cooking, without suffering 
from discomfort for a longer or shorter time. For such persons vegetables 
should be prepared in the form of a puree or served in a consomme. The 
preparation of vegetable dishes for invalids requires some skill. The 
cooked vegetable should be phiced in a mortar and pounded until reduced 
to a pulp. It should be rubbed through a sieve to remove the cellular 
liber and other refuse. It should then be warmed in a stew pan with a 
little milk or cream and flavored with pepper and salt. Persons who suf- 
fer from indigestion, flatulence, gastric or intestinal disorders will be able 
to digest most vegetables with impunity if so prepared. 

The effect of cooking upon green vegetables reduces largely their 
present poor stock of nutrients. They gain water and lose part of their 
carbohydrate and protein content. Much of their mineral matter as well 
as the principal part of their non-albuminoid, nitrogenous constituents 
are lost, including the non-protein nitrogen, 30 to 50 per cent of the 
carbohydrates, 50 per cent of the inorganic salts and at least one-third of 
the total nutrients. This happens when they are boiled, but not so when 
stewed or baked. 

Digestibility of Raw Vegetables. — Some vegetables are eaten raw, 
such as celery, lettuce, water cresses, tomatoes, cucumbers, or cabbage 
made into cold slaw, etc. Usually raw vegetables are prepared by the 
addition of salt, olive oil, vinegar, pepper and other condiments. Wlien 
these vegetables can be secured crisp and fresh there is no reason why 
they should not be thus served; the only caution to be observed is that 
they should be scrupulously clean and thoroughly masticated. The chew- 
ing should be continued until they are reduced to a creamy pulp, when 
they will be easily taken care of by the digestive system and seldom give 
rise to any discomfort. 

VARIETIES OF VEGETABLES: CABBAGE.— Cabbage belongs to the N. O. 
of Cruciferce. This plant was probably first cultivated by the Saxons and 
early Germans. Its cultivation as a foodstuff was begim, probably, before 
the Aryan invasions. Cabbages are used as food on account of their agree- 
able flavor and succulent character. They are also important on account 
of their antiscorbutic properties. They seem to have been evolved by 
natural or artificial selection from the wild coleworts or collards that grow 



434 VEGETABLE FOODS 

wild on the seashore in many countries. The leaves rising from the root 
stalk are gathered together to form a compact head, and in this way the 
light is excluded. They become white from want of chlorophyl and are 
crisp and tender. Cabbages contain a considerable quantity of sulphur 
and on this account are apt to cause flatulence. Where digestion is good, 
however, they are a wholesome vegetable. Cabbage is eaten boiled or raw. 
After cooking it contains more water than in the green state. When eaten 
raw the cabbage contains more nutrients than after boiling, since a certain 
percentage of the nutrients is lost in the water. 

By referring to the table on page 432 it will be noted that in composi- 
tion there will be found some sugar and starch with a rather high con- 
stituent of protein. The calcium content should not be overlooked, as it 
probably gives the cabbage antiscorbutic and bone-building properties. 

The varieties of the cabbage family are so similar in composition and 
food value that we need do no more than mention them. Starting with 
the simplest form of the cabbage plant, we have the collard. Kale or hore- 
cale has two varieties — the "curly kale" and "asparagus kale'' ; the former 
is very tender when cooked and of mild flavor ; the latter is a dwarf vari- 
ety, which throws out long shoots. These when properly cooked are as 
tender and delicious as asparagus. 

Cauliflower was known to the Greeks and Romans, but was not much 
cultivated in Europe until after the sixteenth century. It is the most 
digestible member of the cabbage family. It is much more delicate in 
flavor and more digestible than the ordinary cabbage, and is wholesome 
when boiled and served with a milk sauce. The edible portion consists of 
the inflorescence altered by cultivation. 

Brussels sprouts is a variety of cabbage having blistered leaves. The 
stem of the plant is covered with small miniature heads of cabbage, which 
are the edible portion of the plant. 

Broccoli sprouts embrace many strains of the cabbage family. The 
leaves of this variety resemble the cauliflower; they are the part used 
for food. 

Sealcale is a native of the cliffs of the shores of England. It is a 
green vegetable with young and tender shoots and is held in special regard 
by the inhabitants of Great Britain. It has been brought to a high state 
of perfection by cultivation, and when properly cooked is easy to digest 
and very nutritious. 

Spinach. — Spinach is a green vegetable said to have been cultivated 
in the ancient empire of the Medes and Persians. It was grown exten- 
sively as early as the sixteenth century. There are two varieties of the 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 435 

j)laiit, one winter or perpetual spinach having small prickly leaves, the 
other a smooth leaf variety having thick, fleshy and crimped leaves. It 
is of special value as a green vegetable owing to.the very small amount of 
cellulose which it contains. 

Lettuce. — Lettuce is one of the most important of all the succulent 
vegetables. It was introduced into Kngland from Flanders in 1520. 
There are many varieties, some of which are spreading and have large 
succulent leaves, while others are drawn together like the cabbage and are 
very crisp and nearly white in color. There are several species and about 
one hundred varieties, of which Cos or leaf lettuce from the Island of 
Cos and cabbage lettuce are the two most important. Lettuce is usually 
eaten raw as a salad, but is sometimes boiled and eaten as a vegetable. 
There is very slight food value in lettuce, although its mineral salts are of 
use in the processes of metabolism. It is a wholesome, digestible, cooling 
and agreeable vegetable, chiefly valuable for its juice, which is bland, 
pellucid, has little taste or smell and is cooling and soothing. The juice is 
milky and possesses mild soporific properties. When the plant is matured 
the juice is collected, inspissated and forms lettuce-opium, lactucarium. 
The principal salts are the oxalate, malate, nitrate and sulphate of potash, 
chlorid of potash, and phosphates of lime and magnesia, oxids of mag- 
nesia, iron and silica. The plant also contains traces of hyoscyamin. 

Celery. — Celery grows wild in damp and marshy places in Europe, 
Asia and Africa. Its cultivation is very ancient and is spoken of in the 
Odyssey under the name of selinon. There are about forty varieties and 
many more sub-varieties. It was brought from England to the United 
States and gradually has come into common use. At present it is consid- 
ered a valuable addition to our supply of foods and condiments. The long 
blanched leaf stalks are the result of cultivation, which with careful selec- 
tion and development have lost their rank odor and the coarse taste of the 
wild plant. Some of the varieties of superior quality are large compact 
plants, crisp and juicy and have a fine nutty flavor. The entire plant, 
stems and seeds possess stimulating, carminative and diuretic properties. 
Celery is especially recommended for rheumatics. Its peculiar odorifer- 
ous principle is due to an essential oil which is found in very small quan- 
tities and regarded by some as of therapeutic importance. Celery salt is 
made by grinding celery seed with sodium chlorid. It is used as a flavor- 
ing for soups and salads. Turnip celery has already been considered on 
page 427. 

RiTUBAjiB. — Rhubarb is a valuable article of diet, rich in vegetable 
salts. It is in season when fruits are scarce. The plant belongs to the 



436 VEGETABLE FOODS 

buckwheat family and is often called pie plant. Rhubarb is used for mak- 
ing pies and sauce. The thick petioles or foot stalks of the leaves are used 
for this purpose. Rhubarb occupies the same place in the dietary as fruit, 
but is uneatable in its raw state. Wine and other beverages are made 
from it. Its use as a food or beverage is contra-indicated in persons of a 
gouty diathesis and those with oxalate of lime, also in some forms of rheu- 
matism, owing to the presence of calcium oxalate in its content. In 
medicine this plant is appreciated for its slightly laxative action. 

Below is appended a table, showing cost per pound and cost of 1,000 
calories of some of the common vegetables, from the publication of the 
Health 'Department of ^ew York City, 1917: 

COST OF VEGETABLES 

Cost of 1,000 Price per 

Calories, Pound, 

Cents Cents 

Turnips 20.0 2.5 

Sweet potatoes 21.8 10.0 

White potatoes 25.8 4.0 

New beets 27.6 5.0 

Onions 29.3 6.0 

Spinach 30.0 3.3 

Green peas 39.2 10.0 

Lima beans 39.2 10.0 

Cauliflower 42.9 6.0 

Carrots 50.0 8.0 

String beans 55.6 10.0 

Squash 76.2 8.0 

Lettuce 89.4 7.0 

Celery 214.0 15.0 

Water Cress. — Water cress grows in rivulets, clear ditches and 
ponds. It is cultivated in Europe, Asia and N^orth Africa. Its origin is 
obscure, but probably the plant came from Persia. The leaves have a 
moderately pungent taste and are highly esteemed as a salad, especially 
for their antiscorbutic properties. There are several varieties of plants 
called cress. The garden cress, of which there are "curly" and "broad" 
leaved varieties, is also a valuable antiscorbutic. 

Asparagus. — Asparagus, sometimes called sparrow grass, has been 
prized by epicures from the earliest Roman times. More than four hun- 
dred and fifty years ago asparagus was grown and relished in nearly every 
part of Europe. The plants are best raised in well-drained, fertile soil. 



VARIETIKS OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



437 



It is a wholesome and nutritious vegetable and one of the great delicacies 
of the garden. It is a very early vegetable. Asparagus should be cooked 
fresh by boilinj^ twenty inimitos. When wilted, the flavor is injured. 
Asparagus contains cellular tissue which encloses a substance similar to 
sago, besides albumin, or glutin, asparagin, mannite, malic acid, car- 
bonates and phosphates of calcium, and other salts. Its nitrogenous sub- 
stance is only half protein. The chief non-protein, nitrogenous substance 
is asparagin, which acts as an aperient and quickly passes out of the sys- 
tem through the urine. Its odor* is characteristic. Asparagus is credited 
with being of value to persons sutFering from nervous affections, palpita- 
tion and heart neuroses. 

Endive. — Endive, sometimes called white chickory, is a plant grow- 
ing wild in all the countries surrounding the Mediterranean sea. The 
blanched leaves are the portions used, and although they would be acrid 
and tough if exposed to the air, the blanching makes them crisp and ten- 
der. The green tops are eaten as a salad. This vegetable is believed to 
be of value in the dietotherapeutic treatment of indigestion. 

ARTTCiroKE Greens. — Artichoke greens are the immature flower buds 
of a kind of cultivated thistle, and is a well-known garden plant. It is a 
native of Southern Europe. The flower head is gathered before the flower 
expands. The succulent base together with the central disc and leafy scales 
furnish a delicious and most delicately flavored vegetable. Artichoke is 
boiled in plain water or milk and eaten with white sauce, pepper and salt, 
or other condiments. They are diuretic and as they contain no starch 
may be eaten by diabetics. The active principle of artichoke greens is 
inulin. The entire plant, as well as the edible portion, contains a bitter 
juice, which when mixed with an equal quantity of wine, is reputed to 
be of great service in the relief of 
dropsical conditions. 

Tomatoes. — Tomatoes were for- 
merly grown for ornamental pur- 
poses and by the French were 
termed pomme d'amour. The to- 
mato is a native of America, either 
Mexico or Peru. It was not ex- 
tensively grown until after 1850, 
when it was introduced into Eu- 
rope. Tomatoes contain one per 
cent of protein, very little carbo- 
hydrate, including sucrose, dextrose. 







WATT/?-— 3^.3 
y^T- o.^j(> 

HXD/3^7FS-3.9 ^ 
/IS//- o.sj(> 

^c/£l i//u.o^/v/? POi/A/o: /OS c>i/.o/?/£S. 

Fig. 41. — Composition axd Fuel Value of 
THE Tomato. (Bull. No. 363. U. S. Dept. 
Agric.) 



438 VEGETABLE FOODS 

levulose and some resinous matter. They are free from oxalic acid, but 
contain citric acid. Green tomatoes are used for pickles, chow chow, 
etc., while the ripe tomato is eaten raw or as a salad. They are used 
largely in sauces, soup, ketchup, preserves and confectionery. Since much 
of the nutritive material is in the juice, this should be utilized. 

Okra. — Okra or gumho belongs to the N. O. Malvacece and is of Afri- 
can origin, where its propagation seems to have begun at the beginning of 
the Christian era. The parts used are the long pyramidal seed pods which 
are gathered while green. They are boiled and eaten with butter and 
spices. In the process of cooking no copper, brass or iron vessels should 
be used, or the pods will be discolored. The young green pods are often 
stewed and served like asparagus. The young seed pods are mucilaginous 
in substance and contain pectose, which forms a jelly of the water in which 
they are cooked. Owing to this special mucilaginous property, okra has 
become popular with cooks in the South, who use it in preparing chichen 
gumbo; not only is the soup flavored with this product, but a mucilaginous 
consistency is imparted to the product. 

Chickoky. — Chickory is closely related to the endive. The leaves 
have a rather bitter taste but are used in salads. It grows wild through- 
out Europe, Africa and Asia. Its cultivation is ancient, for it is men- 
tioned in the writings of both the Greeks and Romans. 

. Dandelion. — Dandelion leaves, when young and tender, are highly 
prized as a salad by many people, who regard them much the same as tur- 
nip tops, chickory or endive. A wine is also made by fermenting the 
roots of the plant. Young dandelion leaves form an agreeable accom- 
paniment to pork, veal or duck. They are stomachic, mildly laxative, 
and indirectly increase the action of the liver and kidneys. 

Sorrel. — Sorrel is a common garden vegetable somewhat similar to 
dandelion and endive. When cooked with the two latter it makes an agree- 
able accompaniment to veal, pork or duck. This vegetable is stomachic, 
mildly laxative and is said to increase the activity of the liver and kid- 
neys. It should not be eaten by persons suffering from gout, rheumatism 
or gravel. Sorrel has an agreeable acrid taste and makes a pleasant 
inviting addition to salads and sauces. 

Oraciie. — Orache belongs to the spinach family and is sometimes 
called winter spinach. It is a native of Tartary, introduced into Europe 
in 1584. There are several species of this vegetable cultivated for the 
table. The leaves have a slightly acid flavof, for which they are esteemed. 
The vegetable is cooked and served the same as spinach. 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 439 

Turnip Tops. — Turnip tops or turnip greens are the young and ten- 
der leaves of the vegetahle turnip. They are hi^lily prized for their in- 
viting flavor, They are carefully picked, washed and In^iled with hog's 
jowl and served hot. They furnish ahundant mineral salts and are of con- 
siderable importance in the animal metabolism by furnishing an agree- 
able variety to the food in the early spring. 

Otiiek Gkkens. — Other greens that may be mentioned here, which 
are often called ''pot herbs/* are: hcet tops, narroiu leafed dock, stinging 
nettle, Swiss chard, plantain leaves, purslane (lettuce) ^ mustard leaves, 
poke sprouts, pig weed and chick weed. These greens are usually pre- 
pared by being boiled in water to v.'hich a piece of bacon has been added, 
and sometimes after being cooked they are chopped fine and served with 
hard-boiled eggs. Some of these green vegetables are of positive value in 
the relief of chronic constipation and indigestion and all are highly rec- 
ommended as furnishing an agreeable addition to the dietary, especially 
in the early spring, when green vegetables are scarce. They stimulate the 
appetite, distend the alimentary tract and make the blood alkaline which 
winter foods tend to make acid. 

GREEN PEAS AND BEANS.— Green beans, string beans, or snap beans 
are the whole bean, pod and contents. The crisp succulent pod is tender 
and luscious after brief boiling and may be served as a side dish with but- 
ter or cream sauce. The young bean may be boiled with bacon and served 
as a regular vegetable dish. Young, absolutely fresh string beans can be 
thoroughly softened in from one to two and a half hours' boiling. There 
are several edible varieties of beans which are suitable for eating in the 
young and immature condition. They are of importance in the order 
mentioned : the kidney bean, the dwarf bean, French beans, string beans, 
stringless beans, snap beans and wax beans. The American Indians were 
cultivating beans when the white man first came, for Ave see from the 
writings of Champlain that the Algonquins planted two varieties of 
pole beans. 

Chemical CoArposiTiON^ of Beans and Peas. — The chemical compo- 
sition of green peas and beans is given in the table on next page. (28) 

Shelled Beans. — At a later stage in their development beans are 
greatly increased in size at the expense of the pod, the latter becoming 
thin and leathery. When the beans have reached this stage in their de- 
velopment they should be shelled. The shelled green beans may be pre- 
pared and served like green peas. 

Shelled beans, which must also be fresh, should not be overcooked, or 
they will lose their fine flavor and become yellowish brown in color. The 



440 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



COMPOSITION OF GREEN PEAS AND BEANS, NUTRITIVE 
PERCENTAGE 



Material 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
pound 


Fresh Legumes: 
Strmg Beans 


% 
89.2 

71.9 
81.9 
58.9 
68.5 
74.6 
65.9 


% 
2.3 

4.5 
3.4 
9.4 
7.1 
7.0 
9.4 


% 

0.3 

0.5 
0.4 
.0.6 
0.7 
0.5 
0.6 


% 
7.4 

13.9 
13.7 
29.1 
22.0 
16.9 
22.7 


% 
0.8 

1.2 

0.7 
2.0 
1.7 
1.0 
1.4 


Cals. 
195 


Whole pods of Dolichos 
sesquipedaUs 


365 


Sugar Peas or String Peas 
Shelled Kidney Beans.... 

Shelled Lima Beans 

Shelled Peas 


335 
740 
570 
465 


SheUed Cow Peas 


620 



addition of butter, after the vegetable is cooked, improves the flavor and 
greatly increases the food value of the vegetable. The addition of a little 
cooking soda (bicarbonate) to the water in which beans are cooked enters 
into combination with the legumin, rendering the beans more digestible. 

Broad or Windsor Bean. — The broad or Windsor bean is eaten 
either in the fresh or dry state. This bean is sometimes referred to as a 
butter bean and is a very nutritious vegetable, a favorite in the dietary on 
account of its size and flavor. They are especially sought after in making 
the well-known N'orth American Indian dish known as succotash. 

Green Peas. — Green peas and beans in their unripe and immature 
state are used extensively as vegetables. This vegetable was known to the 
Greeks and Romans and was introduced into England by the Aryans. 
Green peas are frequently referred to as French peas. They are tender 
and sweet and contain a fair amount of nourishment, which is a forecast 
of their great value in the matured and ripened state ; but they are never 
of 'the same nutritive value as the ripe peas. They are, with the excep- 
tion of the sugar peas, removed from the pod to be cooked, since the tough 
cellular shells are uneatable. The young peas become soft and tender 
when boiled, and are more digestible than are the dried peas. They 
contain a considerable amount of sugar, which greatly improves their 
flavor. 

The dried pea contains more nitrogenous material than the dried 
bean. The protein of peas consists chiefly of legumin, a globulin not 
coagulated by heat, and vicilin. 



VAIUETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 441 

DRIED LEGUMES OR PULSES 

Dried Legumes or Pulses — The pulses or seeds of the legumes N. O. 
Lcijununosd' and their allies contain a large store of nutriment, designed 
by nature for the use of the i)lant in its early growth. They have been 
used as a food from time immemorial by various races and pcoi)le8. In 
fact their origin is lost in the mists of antiquity. 

PECULIAR CHARACTERISTIC OF LEGUMES.— It may be interesting to 
note in passing that a peculiar characteristic of this family of vegetables 
is that the plants not only furnish a valuable foodstuff for man and ani- 
mals, but at the same time the roots of the plants have the peculiar prop- 
erty of fertilizing the earth by sending nitrogen into the soil. This is 
accomplished by the bacteria working in the laboratories of the roots. 

These vegetables, beans, peas and lentils, grow^ rapidly, maturing in 
from three to four months. ThOy are cultivated both as garden crops 
and field vegetables. Another advantage of this family of vege- 
tables is that they grow well in most any kind of soil, producing fair 
crops. This is due largely to the fact that they can avail themselves of a 
double supply of nitrogen ; that which is contained in the soil, as nitrites, 
nitrates and ammonia, and that which is absorbed from the air through 
the green leaves (lungs) and carried to the root nodules. These root nod- 
ules possess the remarkable power of fixing the free nitrogen of the atmos- 
pheric air and passing it on for the use of the plant. 

CHIEF NUTRIENT VALUE.— The chief nutrient value of this group of 
vegetable foods is the richness of its members in nitrogen, in virtue of 
which fact they have been termed "the poor man's beef." The entire total 
nitrogen, with the exception of from 3 to 5 per cent, is in the form of pro- 
tein. The chief protein found in pulses is legumin, sometimes called 
vegetable casein, owing to its resemblance to the principal protein of milk. 
Legumin unites freely with salts of calcium, resulting in a compound 
which is not soluble in water. For this reason peas and other pulses do 
not readily soften when soaked in water containing lime salts (hard 
water). This should be remembered when cooking legumes or pulses. In 
soaking these vegetables it is important to add bicarbonate of soda if the 
water is hard. Water containing magnesia has no effect upon pulses, nor 
upon legumin, 

ABSORPTION OF LEGUMES.— Since the purchase of protein foods 
usually adds to the high cost of living, it would seem that in beans, peas 
and lentils we have a cheap and abundant source of this food element. 
This is true to a certain extent. They are extensively utilized for this 



442 VEGETABLE FOODS 

purpose. It happens, however, that the protein of the legumes exists in 
the form of legumin, containing but little albumin, which, according to 
Voit and others, is hard to digest. Legumin, like the vegetable proteins, is 
not so well or completely digested as the proteins of animal foods. It is 
also a fact that this legumin is attacked mainly by the ferments and en- 
zymes in alkaline solutions, principally present in the lower part of the 
alimentary tract. "On this account beans, peas and lentils are not readily 
acted upon by the acid gastric juices: Thus 150 grams of lentils in the 
form of a mash remained in the stomach four hours, and 200 grams of 
peas in a similar form remained in the stomach four and a quarter hours, 
an equal weight of French beans remained even longer" (29). 

If properly prepared the pulses will be readily absorbed in the intes- 
tine. They are more easily digested when soaked over night and boiled 
with bacon for some five or six hours, placed in a mortar and pounded into 
a mass; then pressed through a fine sieve and made into a puree. Pre- 
pared in this way the protein of the pea or lentil is all taken up, except 
8 or 9 per cent. This shows that the protein of the pulses, if given in a 
state of fine division, is capable of very good absorption, almost as good 
indeed as that of gluten when taken in the form of macaroni. Macaroni 
suffers a loss of 11.2 per cent; gluten ingested in the, form of white 
bread suffers a loss of about 20 per cent ; if beans, peas or lentils, on the 
other hand, are simply boiled soft and eaten with broth, the loss of pro- 
tein will be about 40 per cent. Therefore it is absolutely necessary to pre- 
pare the legume in the finest state of subdivision possible to secure diges- 
tion and the greatest possible amount of absorption. 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITION: EESULTING UTILIZATION.— The pulses are 
well supplied with carbohydrates, but very poor in fat {see analysis, page 
443). For this reason they should always be boiled with bacon. They are 
very much improved by being served with sauces containing butter and 
oil. It is also well to remember that they contain a bitter principle which 
renders them unpalatable to many persons. Since they contain quanti- 
ties of purin bodies, larger amounts of uric acid are excreted ; they conse- 
quently are sometimes forbidden in the dietary of the gouty or rheumatic. 

The proportion of water in the soaking and boiling rises from 14 to 73 
per cent for beans and for peas from 9.7 to 86.9 per cent. This increase 
in water means a corresponding increase in the weight and bulk of the 
food, which must be considered when comparing the relative nutritive 
values of the pulses and meat. The table on page 443 (analysis by Abel) 
shows that the nutritive value of beans and peas is high, due to their 
high protein content. 



VAKIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 



443 



COMPOSITION OF DRIED LEGUMES 



Material 



Dried legumes: 

Lima beans 

Navy beans 

Frijoles 

Lentils 

Dried peas 

Cowpea;5 

Soy beans 

Chick-peas 

Peanuts 

St. John's bread (earob 
bean) 



Water 



Per cent 
10.4 
12.6 

7.5 

8.4 

9.5 
13.0 
10.8 
14.8 

9.2 

15.0 



Protein 



Per cent 
18.1 
22.5 
21.9 
25.7 
24.6 
21.4 
34.0 
12.4 
25.8 

5.9 



Fat 



Per cent 
1.5 

1.8 

1.3 

1.0 

1.0 

1.4 
16.8 

6.7 
38.6 

1.3 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
65.9 
59.6 
65.1 
59.2 
62.0 
60.8 
33.7 
63.3 
24.4 

75.3 



Ash 



Per cent 
4.1 
3.5 
4.2 
5.7 
2.9 
3.4 
4.7 
2.8 
2.0 

2.5 



Fuel 

value f)er 

pound 



Calories 
1,625 
1,605 
1,695 
1,620 
1,655 
1.590 
1,970 
1,690. 
2,560 

1,565 



The nutritive value of the pulses is undoubtedly high. Kumerous ex- 
periments have been made to determine to what extent the protein ot 
beans, peas and lentils, etc., is actually utilized as a nutrient in the system. 
It is also a fact tliat, when combined with other foods, the nutriment is 
much more completely utilized than when they form the bulk of the meal. 

FLATULENCE.— The flatulence that is often attributed to this class of 
vegetables is probably caused by the decomposition by bacteria of the 
germ of the bean in the intestine, giving rise to more or less of the hydro- 
carbon methane (CH4). The abundant sulphur in beans and peas evolves 
sulphuretted hydrogen gas. This also explains the tendency of these 
vegetables to produce flatulence. Beans are richer in sulphur than peas. 
The ash of the pulses is poorer in phosphorus than that of cereals, but 
richer in potassium and calcium salts. The legumes contain a very small 
amount of fat with some cholesterin and lecithin. The carbohydrates are 
fairly high, but their proportion is smaller than in the cereals, the amount 
varying from 25 to 60 per cent, including sugar, dextrin and gum. In 
India the bean is highly esteemed by rich and poor alike. They are 
even given to the sick, but "always with a seasoning of asafoetida to 
prevent flatulence." 

VARIETIES OF LEGUMES.— The bean on account of its numerous vari- 
eties and the many ways in which it can be prepared for food and because 
it is so easily grown is one of the most important of the legumes. Beans 
were cultivated by the !N'orth American Indians. It is recorded that the 
Algonquin Indians cultivated two varieties of pole beans. Snap and 
string beans may be grown as well as fresh or green beans, which have al- 
ready been considered. 



444 . VEGETABLE FOODS 

Broad Beans. — Broad beans, more commonly known as Windsor 
beans, are fully an inch in diameter. This particular bean has been culti- 
vated in Europe since prehistoric times. The Greeks were well acquainted 
with it and it is mentioned in the Iliad. The Hebrews were acquainted 
with it at least 1000 b.c. The principal variety grown in America and 
Europe for human food is the Windsor bean, which is eaten while young 
and tender as a green bean as well as when dried. 

Kidney Bean. — The kidney bean is referred to as the French or hari- 
cot bean. There are many varieties of this bean which comprise nearly 
all the kinds of beans which are ripened and dried, such as the white hari- 
cot bean, navy bean, red hidney bean. It is thought to be a native of 
South America, introduced into Europe in the sixteenth century. The 
common haricot bean is a plant of ancient civilization, being found in the 
remains of Troy as well as in the remains of the lake dwellings of Italy 
and Switzerland. .The sub-varieties are divided into those which include 
the string and snap or stringless beans eaten in the green state; those 
which are shelled and eaten while young and tender, and those allowed to 
mature and then dried. 

Lima Beans. — Lima beans consist of a small short pod having flat 
kidney-shaped seeds and sometimes called sugar bean. It is a favorite 
shelled, both green and dry, in the United States. There are a number of 
varieties. The lima bean has been cultivated in American gardens since 
the beginning of the last century. 

Butter Beans. — Butter beans are much used as a food in Southern 
Europe, India and the United States. They are eaten stewed or baked 
and have a pleasant flavor. The fat content is high. The beans are of a 
greenish yellow color, resembling mutton suet. 

BoLicoHS Beans. — There are two popular varieties of this group, 
which difl'er slightly from the common bean and are known as the hyacinth 
bean and the asparagus bean. 

Soy Beans. — The Soy or Soja bean, while for generations known and 
much appreciated in Japan, is a comparatively recent production in the 
Ignited States. In Japan it is a valuable food for man as well as for stock. 
In the United States it has received little attention for purposes other 
than the production of forage crops for cattle and swine. It is destined, 
however, to become a very important agricultural product, both as grain 
food for man and as forage crop for beasts. 

Composition of the Soy Bean. — There are variations in the composi- 
tion of difi^erent varieties of the beans. This bean has a remarkably 
high per cent of protein and a liberal fat content, as shown by the follow- 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 445 

iuf^ analysis. The yellow beans produced in the United States have the 
following analysis : 

Water 9.80 per cent 

Protein 37.13 " " 

Carbohydrates 24.40 " " 

Fat 18.36 " " 

Lecithin 1.60 " " 

Crude fiber 4.47 " " 

Ash 4.30 " " 

Eiihrah of Baltimore has studied this bean extensively and is of the 
opinion that soy bean flour contains no starch or reducing sugar, and 
recommends it as a valuable adjunct in the dictotherapy of diabetes and 
of great importance in infant feeding. 

Preparations Made from Soy Beans. — In the recent war between 
Russia and Japan soy beans were the chief foodstuff upon which de- 
pendence was placed. The Oriental races generally eat the bean after it 
has been prepared in more or less cheesy-like foods. The most common 
of these are natto, tofu, miso, yuha and shoyu, Natto is a sort of cheese, 
made from the boiled beans packed in rice straw and allowed to fer- 
ment. The mass becomes white and mucilaginous by the development 
of bacteria and the straw flavors the product. Miso is a fermented prod- 
uct made from the beans, barley and salt. Tofu is made by crushing 
and boiling the beans and filtering the mass through cloth. Two per 
cent of concentrated sea brine is added to this, which, probably on account 
of the calcium and magnesium present, precipitates the plant casein, 
which is then pressed into tablets. 

Soy hean sauce, having a pungent and agi-eeable taste, is also made 
by fermenting for several months with a special ferment, a mixture of 
cooked soy beans, roasted with wheat flour and salt Soy milk is made 
by boiling the beans and beating to a pulp, when some of the vegetable 
casein passes into solution, resulting in a milky looking solution. 

All soy bean products are high in fuel value and supplement very 
well the rice diet of the natives of China, Japan, Korea and Manchuria, 
as they furnish both protein and fat, in which the rice is so deficient. 
Soy bean food products will, no doubt, eventually be largely used for food 
purposes in the United States, much the same as cottonseed oil has come 
into extensive use within the past two decades. Soy bean oil is now 
mixed with cottonseed oil and used as a salad oil. It also forms the 
basis of the soy sauces and condiments used the world over. 

Peas : Field Peas. — The field pea grows wild in Italy in hedges, for- 



446 VEGETABLE FOODS 

ests and mountainous regions. It is probably a progenitor of the garden 
pea, but the date of its cultivation is unknown. The Canadian field pea 
is used in its immature condition when about two-thirds grown as a shelled 
green pea. 

Garden Pea. — The garden pea is supposed to have come from West- 
ern Asia, but this is doubtful, as it is found in many countries growing 
wild. It is, however, an ancient food, being found among the remains of 
the lake dwellings in Savoy and Switzerland. There is no indication, 
however, of its being cultivated in ancient Egypt or India. Garden peas 
by cultivation and hybridization have been developed into many varieties. 
The more popular are those divided into shelling peas and edible podded 
peas. The latter are called sugar peas and are little known in the United 
States. The former consists of two varieties, (a) the smooth round- 
seeded variety and (h) the wrinkled kind, of .which marrowfat peas is 
the chief. Some of the special strains were mentioned under green peas. 
There are records of green peas being eaten in the I^orman times and 
later at the time of Henry VIII. The choice varieties of garden peas 
were brought from Holland. 

Chick Pea. — The chick pea has not been found wild, but many spe- 
cies are known in Western Asia which were cultivated by the Greeks in 
the time of Homer. They are eaten boiled in soup or roasted. In Spain 
and Oriental countries the leaves of this plant during the hot summer 
months exude a viscous limpid liquid which on examination, according to 
Hogg, consists almost entirely of oxalic acid. 

Cow Peas. — Cow peas belong properly to the bean group, but the 
name has long passed into common use, especially in the United States. 
There are several varieties, as the round lady peas, the mottled and 
speckled whip-poor-will peas, the hlach and red peas, the hlach eye, purple 
eye and other varieties. These beans were originally brought from India 
or China, where their use is very common. Considerable quantities are 
eaten green, shelled like kidney beans. The dry ones are cooked like other 
beans. They have an agreeable flavor. The plant is indigenous to equa- 
torial Africa. 

COMPARISON OFI PEAS AND BEANS.— Comparing the analysis of peas 
with that of beans, it is evident that peas, especially when dried, are 
even more nitrogenous than beans. Another advantage of the pea over the 
bean is that the nitrogenous material of the pea is said to exist in the form 
of proteins. The protein of the pea consists chiefly of legumin globulin, 
not coagulated by heat and vicilin. The unripe or green peas are more 
digestible than the dry peas and contain considerable sugar which greatly 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 447 

improves their tlavor. The field pea is often grown to furnish the split 
pen of commerce. In preparing these for the market the outer skin is re- 
moved, which increases the digestibility of the product. 

CANNED PEAS.— Canned peas are a very important addition to the 
dietary, especially in this country. The peas are collected green and 
shelled. If the process is well conducted and the peas young and imma- 
ture, an extremely edible product is available for use throughout the year. 
It is to be regretted that canned peas are sometimes subject to several 
methods of adulteration. They are sometimes colored green by the use 
of the salts of copper.^ They are sweetened by the use of saccharin. 
Old or dry peas are sometimes soaked for a long time and then canned 
and put on the market as fresh green peas. 

LENTILS.— Lentils are mentioned in most of the ancient writings and 
were no doubt among the earliest food cultivated by man. The Bible tells 
us of their use in Egypt, Asia and Mediterranean countries. The mess of 
red pottage for which Esau sold his birthright to Jacob was composed 
largely of red lentils. There is little doubt but that lentils were cultivated 
in Egypt before history began; at a less remote period, but hardly in his- 
toric times, their cultivation appears to have extended east and west into 
India and Europe. Lentils are consumed by Catholics during Lent in 
place of meat. Lentil flour or meal is eaten by the Hindoos and other 
Orientals in addition to rice when engaged in laborious work. The lentil 
is much richer in protein than either the bean or the pea, and as a rule 
the smaller varieties are richer in this constituent than the larger. Lentils 
contain no sulphur and are more digestible and less apt to cause flatulence 
than either beans or peas. 

Composition of the Lentil. — In composition the lentil is one of the 
most nutritious of all the legumes and contains tlie highest percentage of 
protein. According to analysis by Church it contains 25 per cent of al- 
buminoid, 56 per cent of starch, 2 per cent of fat. Its mineral content is 
particularly high in iron. The favorite method of serving lentil is in the 
form of a puree and in soups and stews. 

FUNGI, LICHENS, ALG-ffi 

Fungi, Lichens, Algae. — The classification of fungi by various writers 
is so diverse that we will only attempt to group the families which include 
the edible varieties. The common classification of edible fungi, as mush- 
rooms, and the inedible ones, as toadstools, is not in accordance with fact, 

iLate Federal legislation has prevented the use of both copper for coloring and 
saccharin for sweetening. 



448 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



since all of the fleshy fungi are toadstools and probably most of them are 
edible. The poisonous properties of fungi are due to the presence in them 
of alkaloids. The nature of these differs in different species, so that the 
symptoms of toadstool poisoning are varied. 

EDIBLE FUNGI.— It is erroneous to say that all poisonous fungi are 
toadstools and that the only edible varieties are mushrooms. Fungi have 
been used as foodstuffs since the earliest times. They are a low form of 
vegetation. Fungi contain no chlorophyll as they cannot utilize the car- 
bon dioxid of the air to build up carbohydrates. They form no starch, 
although glycogen, sometimes called animal starch, is found in truffles, and 
they take up carbon from previously organized carbon. There are some 
10,000 kinds of fnngi, of which comparatively few are edible. The three 
edible varieties most commonly used are mushrooms, truffles and morel. 
There are several varieties common in the United States (30), among 
which we will mention (a) orange milk mushroom ; (h) French chan- 
terelle; (c) fairy ring champignon; (d) spine mushroom; (e) meadow 
mushroom; (/) Maned Agaric; (g) Morchella esculenta; (h) Claviria 
cinera Bull; (i) Claviria rugosa Bull; (;) Boletus edulis Bull; (k) 
Lycoperdon giganteum puffball ; (I) liver fungus (31). 

Composition of Edible Fungi. — The chemical composition of some 
of the more edible fungi is given in the following table [Tibbles(l)] : 
THE COMPOSITION OF FUNGI, PERCENTAGES 







Nitrogen 


1 

PL, 


1 






3 
o 






'^ 

1 


< 


O c! 


j3 


Common Mushroom. . 


/91.30 
193.70 

92.19 
89.08 
90.93 

84.19 
[90.70 

89.54 
190.00 

73.00 

72.00 
/72.34 
172.50 

62.50 


.60 


.36 


.24 


3.75 
2.20 

2.81 
1.88 
1.19 

3.70 
3.49 
3.06 


1.30 

' '.9l' 
.64 

2.60 
3.59 


.20 
.30 

.26 
.54 
.64 

.40 
.25 
.50 
.56 
.60 
.56 
.44 
.64 

17.00 


3.50 
1.20 

1.40 
4.49 
5.09 

4.65 

.73 

1.60 

3. 
6.02 

7. 


.80 
1.20 

.57 
.32 
.33 

.74 

.67 

.91 

58 

6.40 


.30 
.30 


Shaggy or Maned 
Mushroom 


.45 


.15 


.30 


98 


Milky Agaric 




Chanterelle 








1.20 


Boletus (Boletus edu- 
lis) 










Morel (Morchella es- 
culenta) 










.49 


.37 


.12 


1.08 




4.4U 

6.10 1 1.40 

8.76 

9.96 


1.36 


Truffles 








2.00 


Black Truffles 








2.07 


White Truffles 








15.16 
7.9.^ 


2.10 








8.91 
19.50 


7.52 




Beef Steak, for com- 
parison 












1.00 

















VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 449 

General Considerations to Obskuve. — It is difficult to give specific 
directions for the recognition of the haiiuless fungi. Unfortunately some 
of the most dangerous are found in greatest abiindance. There are cer- 
tain general indications which it is always safe to observe: ^^All fungi 
should be avoided when overripe or at lacked by slugs. Those thai soften 
readily are usually dangerous, and the same is true of fungi growing in, 
on or near dunghills, for this plant has a great tendency to absorb poisons 
from the medium on which it happens to be growing.''^ 

Description of the Edible ^Iusiiroom. — Mushrooms are found in 
pastures and open spaces. The young fungus consists of a small spherical 
growth of a white or fawn color growing up from the earth by a solid stem 
or stalk. As it grows, the cap expands into an umbrella shape, exposing 
the stalk. The cap varies from one and a half to three inches in diameter. 
The flesh is white, of brittle texture, delicious odor and flavor, forming a 
tasty, appetizing and agreeable addition to other food. This mushroom 
is extensively cultivated and consumed in Great Britain. It is a common 
article of consumption in France and Germany. It is never poisonous, 
and if it be remembered that the spores are purple, the gills at first pink 
and afterwards purple, that there is a permanent collar or ring about the 
stalk, and that they are never to be looked for in the woods, few accidents 
will occur. 

VARIETIES OF EDIBLE FUNGI: The Meadow Mushroom. — Meadow 
or horse mushroom is similar to the former, but larger, ranging from 
three to six inches in diameter. It sometimes weighs several pounds. As 
its name indicates, it grows in meadows and pastures. Some persons pre- 
fer it to the common mushroom; it has a stronger flavor, but otherwise 
there is very little difference. It is preferred in France, where it is con- 
sidered a delicacy. There are many other edible varieties known, as St. 
George's mushroom, the oyster mushroom, the snail fungus and blewits, all 
very similar in composition and much alike in their uses. 

The Parasol Mushroom. — The parasol mushroom is much in de- 
mand in France, Spain and Italy. There are many varieties, some species 
growing very large. They produce best in old mushroom beds and fir 
plantations and are usually crisp and very good and wholesome. 

Truffles. — Truffles are subterranean fungi, cultivated extensively in 
France and Italy. There are about fifty varieties of this fungus. They 
grow in woods or forests, especially in the vicinity of oaks and nut trees, 
on fir plantations and under beech trees. Their development is slow; the 
mycelium does not produce truffles for several years after it begins to 
grow, but when once they begin they continue for years. Truffles grow 



450 VEGETABLE FOODS 

underground and are of various sizes, from two to three ounces in weight. 
In color they are red, white and black ; the latter are held in high esteem 
and have great repute for making gravy, soups, entrees and garnishing 
dishes. They are used both fresh and dried, and are highly stimulating. 

Truffles, owing to their nitrogenous constituents, are highly stimulating 
and heating. They should be eaten in moderation ; their digestion is diffi- 
cult and their wholesomeness is not without question. 

The Morel. — The morel is a fungus having a hollow stalk and a 
conical pitted cap. There are various species, growing plentifully in Ger- 
many. They are sold in the dry state and used principally for making 
gravy, ketchup, sauces and entrees. In France the term champignon is 
applied to the morel as well as to mushrooms in general. 

Boletus Edulis. — Boletus edulis is an edible fungus very common in 
the beech woods of South England. It is grown extensively in Austria and 
Germany, where it is cut into slices, dried and sold in the shops as a fari- 
naceous food. The pileus grows to the size of from four to six inches in 
diameter, light brownish color above and white underneath. The flesh is 
firm when young and softens with age. !N^early all boleti are edible. The 
soft ones are yellowish white on the under surface of the pileus. 

LICHENS. — Lichens grow abundantly in the Arctic regions. Iceland 
moss is the most important edible lichen. The Laplanders use it as a 
breadstuff and also boil it with the milk of the reindeer. It contains two 
carbohydrates: liclienin, moss starch (CgHioOg), which yields dextrose 
on hydrolysis, but is not affected by digestion and probably does not form 
glycogen, a mucilage; and isolichenin, which resembles starch, but on di- 
gestion yields only dextrins, no sugar. Bread made from Iceland moss 
is recommended for diabetics. From the chemical nature of Iceland moss 
and from its resistance to the process of digestion, also from the small 
amount of it ever present in jelly, it is safe to say that its nutritive value 
is not worth consideration. 

According to Church's analysis its chemical composition is about as 
follows: water, 10.0 per cent; proteid, 8.Y per cent; lichen starch, 70.0 
per cent; lichen acids, etc., 6.3 per cent; cellulose, 3.5 per cent; mineral 
matter, 1.5 per cent. 

ALG^.— Algae include a variety of fungi seaweeds of which laver, 
dulse and others are occasionally used for foods. The only one which de- 
mands serious consideration here is the Irish or Carraigeen moss which 
is used both as an ordinary article of diet and as a delicacy for the sick 
room. It grows abundantly on the rocky shores of Iceland and is usually 
under the surface of the water, from three-quarter tide to below low water 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLE FOODS 451 

mark. Tlioro are several species of this seaweed used for food. They are 
boiled for several hours until reduced to a slimy pulp which is sometimes 
made into cakes with oatmeal and fried in butter. Other edible algae are 
the alar la or miirliiis of the north coasts, which fonn a welcome addition 
to the potato diet of the ])easauts, and the a (jar nrjar or Chinese gelatin of 
the Orient. The edible birds' nests which are popular as a food with the 
Chinese are formed by the swallow from gelatinous seaweeds, which are 
disgorged by the birds in building their nests. 

AcjAR Agar. — Agar agar, called Beiujal isinglass, is a fungi seaweed 
imported from Singapore. It occurs in thin transparent strips which 
readily dissolve in hot water, forming a gelatinous, tasteless and odorless 
jelly. The dried seaweed is sometimes called Ceylon moss. Some species 
of this fungus are favorite additions to soups and for jellies and blanc- 
mange. 

Summary 

Fungi are difficult of digestion, owing to the large percentage of cellu- 
lose in their composition and to the shrinkage and greater compactness 
which result from the process of cooking. The pain and discomfort which 
they are apt to produce in the stomach have often been wrongly attributed 
to poisons. In consequence fungi which are merely indigestible have been 
classed as inedible. The absorption of fungi is also very imperfect. One 
observer who consumed large quantities of fresh mushrooms daily found 
that 19 per cent of the dry substance, 37.7 per cent of the protein, escaped 
absorption. On the whole, mushrooms and other fungi must be classed 
with such substances as green vegetables, carrots and black bread as among 
the wasteful foods. The nutritive value of fungi has been very much over- 
estimated: thus the Patagonians have erroneously described them as 
"vegetable beefsteaks," which has caused the poorer classes to use them 
extensively as a food. Their nitrogenous content is in a form which is 
useless for the purpose of nutrition, owing to the very imperfect degree 
to which this element is capable of being absorbed. Further, the carbo- 
hydrate content is very uncertain in nutritive value and cannot be re- 
garded as food of any greater value than fresh green vegetables. 

REFERENCES 

1. TiBBLES. Origin and Manufacture of Foods. Bailliere, Tindall 
and Cox, London. 



452 VEGETABLE FOODS 

2. Hamill. Food Eeports, E'os. 11-12, Local Gov. Bd., 1911. 

3. TiBBLEs, William. Food in Health and Disease. 

4. Hill and Flack. Brit. Med. J., 1911, vol. i, p. 311; vol. ii, Sep- 

tember, 1911. 

5. McCallum. McCallum (of Yale) has shown that rats do not 

thrive and bear young when fed on wheat alone. 

6. Edie and Simpson. Brit. Med. J., 1911, vol. i, p. 1151. 

7. TiBBLES, William. Ibid. 

8. U. S. Department of Agriculture, Experimental Station, Bull. 67. 

9. Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

10. United States Department of Agriculture, Bull. No. 45. 

11. Kajiura and Rosenheim. Proc. Physiol. Soc, 1908; also J. 

Physiol., 1908. 

12. Fraeser and Stanton. J. Trop. Med. & Hyg., 1911. 

13. Simpson, Webster, et al. Philippine J. Med., 1912. 

14. Casimir Funk. J. Physiol., 1913, pp. 389-392. 

15. Silver, F. J. ; Garrison, P. E. ; and MacNeal, W. J. Pellagra, 

J. Am. Med. Assn., Jan. 3, 1914, p. 8. 

16. WiNTON, A. L. ; Burnet, W. C. ; Bornmann, J. H. Information 

in respect to this problem will be found in the paper : Composi- 
tion of Corn (Maize) Meal Manufactured by Different Proc- 
esses and the Influence of Composition on the Keeping Quali- 
ties, U. S. Dept. Agric, May 21, 1915, Bull. 215. 

17. Woods. U. S. Dept. Agric, Far. Bull. 298. 

18. I^ANSEN, ^N". E. Proso and Kaoling as Table Foods, South Dakota 

Agric. Exper. Sta., Bull. 'Eo, 158, March, 1915. 

19. Ball, C. K. The Importance and Improvement of Grain Sor- 

ghums, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bureau Plant Industry, Washing- 
ton, 1911, Bull. 203. 

20. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 

559, 1913. 

21. Fitch, W. E. Some Neglected History of North Carolina. 

22. United States Department of Agriculture, Bull. No. 43. 

23. Stone, W. E. Berliner Deutsch. chem. Gesellsch., 1890, xxiii, 1, 

1896. 

24. Hasselbrino, H., and Hawkins, L. A. Physiological Changes in 

Sweet Potatoes During Storage, J. Agric Research, January, 
1915, p. 331. Ripening and Storage of Certain Foods (edito- 
rial), J. Am. Med. Assn., April 3, 1915, p. 165. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 453 

25. Langwoethy. U. S. Dept Agric, Farm. Bull. No. 295. 

26. . Ibid, 

27. -. Ibid, 

28. U. S. Dept. Agric, Farmers' Bull. No. 121. 

29. Hutchison. Food and Dietetics, p. 230. 

30. Report Microscopist, U. S. Dept. Agric., Cir. No. 13, Div. Botany. 

31. Bulletin United States Department of Agriculture. (Principally 

from this source.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Cereal and Cereal Foods 

Amos. Processes of Flour Manufacture. 

Akon and Hocson. Rice as a Food — Nitrogen and Phosphorus Metab- 
olism with Rice and Other Foods, Biochem. Ztschr., 1911, vol. 
xxxii, pp. 189-203. 

Chamberlain and Yedder. Second Contribution to the Etiology of 
Beri-beri, Philippine J. Sc, 1912, Series B, vol. vi, pp. 395- 
404. 

and Williams. Third Communication on 

the Etiology of Beri-beri, Philippine J. Sc, 1912, Series B, 
vol. vii, pp. 39-52. 

DuNNiNGTON. The Grinding of Cornmeal for Bread, Original Commu- 
nications, 8th Internat. Cong. Applied Chem., 1912, vol. xviii, 
pp. 119-127. 

DuvALL and Duvall. Shrinkage of Shelled Corn while in Cars in Tran- 
sit, U. S. Dep. Agric, Bull. 48, 1914, pp. 1-21. 

Funk. Chemical Nature of the Substance Which Cures Polyneuritis in 
Birds Induced by a Diet of Polished Rice, J. Physiol., 1912, 
vol. xliii, pp. 395-400. 

. Effect of a Diet of Polished Rice on the Nitrogen and Phos- 
phorus of the Brain, J. Physiol., 1912, vol. xliv, pp. 50-53. 

. Substance from Yeast and Certain Foodstuifs Which Pre- 
vents Polyneuritis, Brit. Med. J., 1912, ii, p. 787. 

. Influence of the Milling of Maize on the Chemical and Nu- 
tritive Value of Maize Meal, J. Physiol., 1914, vol. xlvii, pp. 
389-392. 



Geant. The Chemistry of Breadmaking. 



454 VEGETABLE FOODS 

Gkeig. Kice in Kelation to Beri-beri, Scientific Memoirs of the Med. and 

Sanitary Depts. India, 1911, New Series No. 45, pp. 1-43. 
Hunt. The Cereals in America. 
. The Effects of a Kestricted Diet and of Various Diets upon 

Kesistance of Animals to Certain Poisons, Hyg. Lab. of U. S. 

Pub. Health Service, 1910, Bull. 69. 
Jagg. The Technology of Breadmaking. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It, 

U. S. Dept. Agric, 1914, Farmers' Bull. 131, p. 565. 
Mendel and Fine. Utilization of the Proteins of Barley, J. Biol. 

Chem., 1911, vol. x, pp. 339-343. 
Merrill. Indian Corn as Food for Man, Maine Agric. Exper. Sta., 

1906, Bull. 131, pp. 133-145. 
Osborne. The Nutritive Value of the Proteins of Maize, Science, Jan. 

31, 1913, vol. xxxvii, pp. 185-191. 

. The Proteins of the Wheat Kernel. 

Smith. The Sulphur Bleaching of Commercial Oats and Barley, U. S. 

Dep. Agric, Bureau of Plant Industry, 1911, Circular 74. 
Trier. Phosphatids of Oatmeal, Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem., 1914, vol. 

Ixxxvi, pp. 153-173. 
Watson. Oatmeal in the Dietary of Children, Brit. Med. J., 1907, pp. 

985-986. 
Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bur. Chem., 

Bull. 13, Part 9. 
. Analyses of Cereals Collected at the World's Columbian Ex- 
position, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bur. Chem., Bull. 45. 



Wheat and Flour 

Bailey. Minnesota Wheat Investigations, Minn. Agric. Exper. Sta., 

1913, Bull. 131. 
Ladd and Stallings. Bleaching of Flour, North Dakota Agric Exper. 

Sta., 1906-1907, Bull. 72, pp. 219-235. 
Osborne and Voorhees. The Proteins of Wheat, J. Am. Chem. Soc, 

1894, vol. xvi, pp. 524-535. 
Snyder. Wheat and Flour Investigations, Minn. Agric. Exper. Sta., 

1904, Bull. 85. 
and Woods. Wheat Flour and Bread, U. S. Dep. Agric, 

Yearbook for 1903, pp. 347-362. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 455 

Teller. The Carbohydrates of Wheat and Wheat Products and Changes 
in the Same during Development of tlie Grain, Orig, Commu- 
nications, 8th Internat. Congress of Applied C'hemistry, 1912, 
vol. xiii, pp. 273-278. 

Thatcher, Olson and Hadlock. Wheat and Flour Investigations, 
Washington Agric. Exper. Sta., 11)11, Bull. 100. 

Wood and Haudy. Physical State of Gluten, Proc. Koyal Soc. London, 
1909, Series B, vol. Ixxxi, pp. 38-43. 



Bread Making 

Graham. Chemistry of Bread-making, London, 1880. 

Harcourt and Purdy. Flour and Breadmaking, Ontario Agric. College, 

Dept. Agric, 1910, Bull. 180. 
Hill. Nutritive Value of White and Standard Bread, Brit. Med. J., 

1911, ^o. 2627, pp. 1008-1069; (discussion) No. 2628, pp. 

1151, 1911. 
Jagg. Science and Art of Breadmaking, London, 1895. 
Kghman. Salt-rising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread Made 

with Yeast, J. Indust. & Engin. Chem., 1912, vol. iv, pp. 20-30, 

100-106. 
Ladd and Bailey. Wheat Investigations ; Milling, Baking and Chemical 

Tests, North Dakota Agric. Exper. Sta., 1911, Bull. 89. 
Snyder. Studies in Bread and Breadmaking, U. S. Dept. Agric, Office 

of Exper. Sta., Bulls. 67, 101 and 126. 
Wardall. Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread, .1. Home Economics, 

1910, vol. ii, pp. 75-91. 
WiLLARD and Swan SON. Influence of Certain Substances upon the Bak- 
ing Qualities of Flour, Kansas Agric Exper. Sta., 1914, Bull. 

190, pp. 237-285. 

* Vegetables 

Abel. Beans, Peas and Other Legumes as Food, IT. S. Dep. Agric, 
1900, Farmers' Bull. 121. 

Dubois. Analyses of Canned Peas and Beans, F. S. Dep. Agric, Bu- 
reau Chem., 1910, Circular 54. 

GiLMGRE. A Study of Quality in Potatoes, Cornell Agric Exper. Sta., 
1905, Bull. 230. 



456 VEGETABLE FOODS 

HiNDHEDE. The Digestibility of Potatoes, Skandin. Arch. f. Physiol., 
1912, vol. xxvii, pp. 277-294. 

Langwokthy. Potatoes and Other Koot Crops as Food, U. S. Dept. 
Agric, 1907, Farmers' Bull. 295. 

. Green Vegetables and Their Uses in the Diet, U. S. Dept. 

Agric., Yearbook for 1911, pp. 439-452. 

WiNTERSTEiN and Eeuter. The Nitrogenous Constituents of Mush- 
rooms, Centrlbl. f. Bakteriol. u. Parasitenk., ii. Abth., vol. xxxiv, 
pp. 566-572; Chemical Abstracts, 1912, vol. vi, p. 3279. 



CHAPTER XIV 



FATS AND OILS 

General Considerations: Fat and Oil Substances; Sources of Fats; Chem- 
ical Characteristics of Fat; Fatty Bodies; Imi^rtance of Fats and 
Oils. 

Animal Fats: Varieties: Butter, Lard, Suet, Oleomargarine, etc. 

Vegetable Fats: Value of Ve«rotable Fats; Absorption of Vegetable Oils; 
Varieties: Palm Oil, Almond Oil, Peanut Oil, etc. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

Fats and oils may be divided into two general classes: (a) fixed oils 
and fats, (h) essential or volatile oils. The former are derived from 
two sources, i.e.y the animal and vegetable kingdoms; the latter are 
volatile constituents of plants and may be obtained unchanged by the 
application of heat. They are important constituents of spices and a 
fuller consideration will be found under the chapter "Spices and Con- 
diments." 

Fat and Oil Substances. — Fats and oils contain substances of an 
extremely varied nature. They are devoid of nitrogen and consist almost 
entirely of three elements, viz., carbon, hydrogen and oxygen; the latter 
in small proportion, but so combined that they readily undergo oxida- 
tion, during which they give out considerable heat. The sugars and 
starches contain oxygen and hydrogen in such proportions that when 
their molecules are split up, water (HgO) is formed. In the group of 
fats oxygen is present in insufficient quantity to produce water with all 
of the hydrogen atoms, so that combustion takes place with the liberation 
of heat. It is the peculiar property of hydrocarbons to unite readily with 
oxygen. and it is the consequent development of heat that renders them 
so exceedingly valuable as a source of fuel for the animal economy. 

Sources of Fat. — Fat forms the bulk of butter, fat meat, suet, lard, 
oils and other fatty substances. About one-sixth of the entire body weight 
is composed of fat, while only about one-quarter of an ounce is con- 
tained in the blood. In a prolonged fast or death from starvation ninety 
per cent of the body fat is consumed. The chief sources of this supply 

457 



458 FATS AND OILS 

of fat in the human body are starches and sugars, but not all, as some 
of it, as Monk has demonstrated, is undoubtedly derived from fatty food. 
Many of the fatty substances are important constituents of foods, while 
others, differing only very slightly in chemical composition, are of value, 
from a commercial standpoint, in the manufacture of soap, candles and 
paint. Fat is a source of energy, as is evident in the inhabitants of Polar 
regions, whose aliment is almost entirely fat and oils. 

Many of the animal oils, such as whale oil, seal oil and jish oil, are 
obnoxious to the taste of civilized peoples. For the most part the vege- 
table oils when properly refined make wholesome, palatable food products. 
Vegetable oils are derived, principally, from the seeds of plants, extracted 
by pressing the ground or mashed seeds. Animal fats are secured from 
animal tissues by a process of "rendering" which consists in placing the 
fatty substances in a large vessel and applying heat until the fat is 
melted, so that it can be separated from the animal tissues. The animal 
tissues containing the greatest proportion of fat are the bone marrow, 
subcutaneous and intermuscular tissues around the various internal 
organs and the omentum of the abdominal cavity. 

Chemical Characteristics. — Chemically considered, fats are glyceryl 
esters of fatty acids. The fatty acid radical replaces the OH in the 
alcohol molecule (glycerin) and joins the alcohol radical C3H5 or allyl, 
which is a trivalent ion, whereby fats are formed. By some authorities 
fats are considered salts of the higher saturated or unsaturated fatty 
acids in which the glyceryl acts as the base. Just as nitric acid when 
acted upon by caustic soda forms water and sodium ^nitrate, so stearic 
acid will theoretically combine with glyceryl, producing glyceryl stearate, 
that is, ordinary stearin. Stearin is abundant in hard fat ; it is a 
stearopten solid at ordinary temperature. 

Fatty Bodies. — Fatty bodies are component parts of the cells of ani- 
mals and plants, more particularly in animal fat, though to some extent 
in the seeds of vegetables and fruit. The most common are palmitin, 
olein and stearin and the most common fatty acids are palmitic, oleic, 
stearic, butyric, caproic, caprylic, erucic smd valeric, but there are others. 
Fat is formed by their union with glycerin. 

FLUID AND SOLID FATTY BODIES.— The three fatty bodies, olein, 
palmitin and stearin, form the fat of animal tissues. Olein and stearin 
are in such proportion that the fat remains fluid if kept at the tempera- 
ture of the human body. The physical condition of fat or oil, i.e., 
whether it is a solid or a liquid at ordinary temperatures, depends largely 
upon the proportion of saturated or unsaturated glycerids present. Fats 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 459 

predominating in a greater ])r(>|)orti()n of palinitate an<l stearate are 
solid, while those predominating in oleate are liquid. 

Ivecently a process has been commercialized for saturating unsatu- 
rated glycerids by merely heating them with hydrogen in the presence 
of a catalyptic agent, nickel. Instead of having a white solid similar to 
tallow, we bave a liquid cottonseed oil which is high in glyceryl oleate 
and low in stearate. This process changes a large portion of the oleate 
to stearate, tliereby solidifying the H(inid product. 

Importance of Fat. — Fat is the most im])ortant representative of the 
hydrocarbon group of foods ; common forms are fat meat, butter, cream, 
a part of milk and cheese. Fat meat, such as beef, mutton and pork, 
are important ingredients of our diet. As a rule the fat is so closely 
associated with the lean that it is taken more or less incidentally along 
with the proteins of the lean meat. The quantity of fat ingested can be 
regulated by inspection and more accurately determined by the actual 
separation and weighing of the fat. Meat fats should be thoroughly 
cooked in the presence of moisture, if they are to be easily digestible 
{see Volume II, chapter on Scientific Cooking). 

ASSIMILATION OF FATS.— Fats are comparatively easily assimilated. 
They pass through the mouth and stomach unchanged. During the 
digestive process the slight framework of the connective tissue of meats 
and the protoplasm of cells are peptonized. The enclosed fat or oil 
globules are liberated and later on emulsified and saponified by the action 
of the mild but copious carbonates in the small intestine, together with 
the ferment action of lipase (steapsin). The combined action of these 
digestive agents changes the fat into an emulsion and eventually saponi- 
fies it, thus releasing the glycerin of the fat molecule and reducing the 
fat to soluble components, soap and glycerin. Other portions of the fat 
are converted into forms of soap by the action of the pancreatic fluid, a 
solution of which is quite readily absorbed. A large proportion of the 
digested fat is absorbed by the lacteals and gains an entrance into the 
blood by way of the thoracic duct. After a full meal the fluid in 
the lymphatic vessels, of which the thoracic duct is the largest, is milky 
from the presence of fat. All the fat does not reach the blood in this 
manner. A large amount is absorbed directly into the blood vessels in 
the form of the soluble and insoluble soaps which are manufactured in 
the bowels. Research experiments have proved that 150 grams of fat 
(about five and one-half ounces) can be easily absorbed and assimilated 
with only an infinitesimal loss. As a result it wnll be good practice to 
prescribe one-quarter of a pound of fat daily for a diabetic. 
31 



460 FATS AND OILS 

On watching the blood stream after a meal fat globules can be 
observed, but after a time the blood resumes its usual appearance. The 
white blood cells are said to carry these minute fat globules all over 
tlie body, distributing them to the working tissues for the production of 
heat and energy and other current expenditures. The fat itself is reduced' 
to carbonic acid and water which are excreted by the skin, lungs and 
kidneys. When more food is consumed than is necessary for the imme- 
diate needs of the body, fat is stored up in the subcutaneous and other 
cellular tissues. It is a well-known fact that animals often put on more 
fat than their food contains. Pigs accumulate much more fat in the 
body and cows give more fat in their milk than exists in the food which 
they consume. It is therefore assumed that additional fat is derived 
from the conversion of proteid and carbohydrate elements, which have 
already been shown to cause an accumulation of fat, when there is 
greater consumption of them than is necessary. 

FAT AS NECESSARY TO HEALTH.— The consumption of fat is required 
to promote the earlier stages of growth and repair of the organism. 
There are also many diseased conditions and degenerative changes which 
are accompanied by increased accumulation of fat in and between the 
tissues and cells of the body. Therefore it is quite impossible to live 
very long in perfect health without fatty food. It is equally impossible 
to live very long upon fatty food alone, since its prolonged use upsets 
the digestive processes and causes an absolute repugnance for fat. 

Dependence of Muscular Action on Fat. — The expenditure of 
muscular action is more or less intimately dependent upon fat combus- 
tion. It was formerly taught that the force of the body was supplied 
by the oxidation of nitrogenous materials, for instance, fat eaten with 
food was believed to be deposited again as fat in the tissues. Of recent 
years this theory has been exploded and the primary value of fatty foods 
has been established beyond question as a contributing force in saving 
other tissues, especially the albuminous, from destruction by oxidation; 
whereas its secondary use is in connection with tissue formation. Fats 
do form a part of many different tisues of the body, even those of the 
nervous system. 

FAT9 VS. OILS.— Both fats and oils employed as food serve essentially 
the same purpose and may, therefore, be grouped together and considered 
as a class. Their physical properties are identical, although they differ 
considerably in their melting points. Fatty bodies and fatty acids vary 
in chemical composition, but after being absorbed they are recognized 
mainly in one or two simple forms, chiefly as stearin and olein. 



ANIMAL FATS 461 

While the various fats and oils, of both animal and vegetable origin, 
have the same beneficial effect upon nutrition, there is considerable dif- 
ference in their fuel value, and in the facility with which one variety 
or another may be assimilated in individual cases. Animal fats have a 
higher nutritive power than those derived from the vegetable kingdom, 
and of the former, liver fat, butter and cream are the most easily digested, 
assimilated and absorbed of all fats. 

The use of fats and oils should be restricted or forbidden in all forms 
of acute gastro-enteric intestinal disorders, chronic gastritis, dilatation 
of the stomach, chronic diarrhea, obesity, fatty and waxy liver, gallstones, 
acne and urticaria. 

Economy of Fats and Oils. — Below is given a table showing cost 
of 1,000 calories and cost per pound of some of the more common fatty 
food products. Prices were obtained in New York City in the fall of 
1917: 

COST OF FATS 

Cost of 1,000 Price per 

Calories, Pound, 

Cents Cents 

Cottonseed oil 7.3 31 

Oleomargarin 8.5 30 

Peanut butter 8.8 25 

Butter 11.9 43 

Olive oil 12.1 51 

Bacon 13.8 37 

Cream (extra heavy, 40 per cent) 19.8 65 (pint) 

Bacon, sliced, in jars 22.2 65 

ANIMAL FATS 



Animal Fats. — Animal fats are obtained from fatty foods, including 
butter, cream, suet, lard, oleomargarin, the fat of beef, mutton, pork and 
bacon, bone marrow, pemmican, fish and cod liver oil. Oil is also 
obtained from the yolJc of eggs. 

BUTTER.— Butter is one of the most ancient articles of food. It was 
written of in the Vedas 2000 to 1400 b.c. It is made by churning whole 
milk, which causes the fat globules of "ripened" cream to coalesce, 
breaking up the emulsion of cream and forming the butter fat into a 
solid mass. When cream is designed for the manufacture of butter a 
''ripening" process is required to bring the cream to a suitable condition. 
No special precautions are necessary where the shallow pan system at a 



462 FATS AND OILS 

low temperature is used, but this system requires time for the cream to 
^'ripen." With the employment of the ''separator" the period of time 
is shortened somewhat. The best butter is made from cream that has 
ripened in shallow pans from twelve to twenty-four hours and churned 
at a temperature of between 65° and 70° F. In this way butter may 
be made in twenty to thirty minutes. Standard butter should contain 
82.5 per cent of milk fat and not more than 16 per cent water. 

Chemical Characteristics of Butter. — From a chemical stand- 
point, one is impressed by the large content of fatty acids contained in 
butter fat. The acids butyric, caproic, capric and caprylic are soluble 
in water. (See table below.) 

Butyric acid is present in the proportion of about 7 per cent. The 
most abundant of the insoluble fatty acids in butter is oleic, olein being 
present in the proportion of 40 per cent. This fact points to the low 
melting point (31-34° C.) of butter, and consequently its ease of diges- 
tion and assimilation. For ease of digestion, butter stands at the head 
of the list of fatty foods. Human fat is also rich in olein and has a lower 
melting point (25° C.) than butter. A plausible explanation of the 
digestibility of butter is the similarity between butter fat and human fat 
in their proportion of olein. 

THE FATTY ACIDS IN 100 GRAMS OF BUTTER FAT 

Analysis hy Hehner and Mitchell Analysis hy Bell 

Per cent Per cent 

Stearic Acid 1.83 Volatile or Soluble : 

Distearic Acid 1.00 Butyric Acid 6.13 

OJ^i<' 32.50 Caproic ) 

Pa^°^iti« 38.50 CapryHc } 2.09 

Myristic 8.89 Capric ) 

Laurie 2.57 { 

Capric 32 

^^P^^^« 49 Nonvolatile or Insoluble : 

^^P^^^*' 2.09 Oleic Acid 36.10 

^"^y"*' • • 5.45 Palmitic, Stearic, Laurie 



8.22 



Total Acids per cent 94.50 



and Myristic Acids. . . 49.46 

85.56 



Total Acids per cent 93.78 



To the trace of casein found in butter is due the disagreeable rancidity 
which often develops in butter kept for a while. The casein decomposes 



ANIMAL FATS 



463 



in time, tins process being hastened ])y the jjreseiiee of water. In order 
to keep butter sweet indefinitely, it is melted and bcnled until all the 
water is expelled. This product in its melted state is strained through 
a muslin cloth to separate the casein. It is then poured into a container, 
cooknl and securely corked, when it will keep sweet indefinitely. 

Cream KRY Butter. — Creamery butter is made in a creamery from 
cream obtained by a centrifugating machine or separator. The cream- 
ery is supplied every morning with fresh cream from the dairymen or 
farmers in the surrounding district. This is the chief system in this 
country as well as in Holland, Ireland and other European countries. 
In England there are many factories in successful operation where the 
whole milk is received, the cream being separated at the factory anff 
butter manufactured after the same process as at creameries in this 
country. The Department of Agriculture estimates that the yearly but- 
ter product of this country aggregates 1,621,796,475 pounds, valued at 
$648,718,590. 

Imitation Creamery Butter. — Imitation creamery butter is made 
by farmers or dairymen on a small scale in the same manner as creamery 
butter. Such butter is purchased by dealers from the farmers before 
it is washed, salted, or worked, the dealers having supervision over this 
part of the butter-making process. Their attention to the details of 
washing, salting and kneading and mingling together butters from vari- 
ous sources produces a more uniform butter of a superior quality than 
butters made by individuals. 

Dairy Butter. — Dairy butter is butter, salted, kneaded and packed 
by the dairyman and sold in print packages. Such butter is usually 
made by old-fashioned methods, i.e., the cream is ripened in shallow pans, 
etc. This method produces a pure and wholesome product. 

Factory Butter. — Factory butter is produced from butter sorted 
into salt and saltless butter and sold by the farmers to factories. It is 
sent in rolls, baskets or boxes to the factories, where it is washed by a 
powerful butter working machine and then packed into firkins for the 
market. 

Renovated butter is usually stale, rancid or otherwise unsalable fac- 
tory butter, derived from many sources. It may be purified by steril- 
ization, clarified, melted down, refined and deprived of deleterious odors 
and more particularly of its rancid odor. 

Causes of Rancidity of Butter. — The causes of rancidity in butter 
have frequently been investigated by chemists and bacteriologists. The 
cause of rancidity of butter and other fats is not thoroughly understood, 



464 



FATS AND OILS 



but light, heat and moisture may play a part in the transformation. Re- 
cently the causes for the undesirable flavors sometimes present in cold 
storage butter have been sought by dairymen, storage men and hygienists. 

It has been generally supposed that rancidity is due to changes taking 
place in the fats of v^^hich butter is principally composed and that the 
"off flavors" are merely mild forms of rancidity. After a series of 
studies on butter which had been prepared under widely varying condi- 
tions and stored at 0° F. for varying lengths of time, Dyer(l) concludes 
that (a) "the development of undesirable flavors in storage butter is not 
dependent on an oxidation of the fat itself, but that (h) it is attributable 
to a slow process of oxidation progressing in the non-fatty constituents 
of the buttermilk, and that (c) the extent of this change is directly pro- 
portional to the amount of acid present in the cream from which the 
butter has been prepared." 

In other words, the buttermilk supplies the substances which decom- 
pose during cold storage. This decomposition is proportional to the 
amount of acid present in the cream before churning. The experiments 
showed that butter made from sweet cream had a very mild flavor and 
kept in good condition almost indefinitely in storage, while the butter 
from highly acid cream had a high flavor and would not keep well. The 
remedy consists in preventing the cream from ripening too much, i.e., 
producing too much acid before churning or, if that has occurred, in 
washing out the buttermilk from the freshly churned butter with fresh 
water. 

Chemical Composition of Butters. — The following tables, taken 
from Tibbies' "Origin and Manufacture of Foods," will serve to illus- 
trate the chemical composition of various grades and makes of butter : 

A— COMPOSITION OF BUTTER— PERCENTAGES 



Nutrients 



<i :0 



1^ 






CO -(J 



GO 



pq 






a:5 

-^ o 



pq 









pq § I, 



^^ 



Water 

Fat 

Casein and Albumin . 

Lactose 

Salt 

Mineral ash 



11.7 
87.0 

.5\ 
.3/ 



■.a) 



12.0 
84.0 

1.0 
3.0 



14.50 

83.38 

.80 

1.12 

.20 



12.80 

84.06 

.67 

.69 

" V.78 



9.3 

82.7 

I 5.1 



2.9 



9.7 

84.7 

3.5 

2.1 



8.6 
85.5 

2.8 
3.1 



8.6 
87.2 

2.1 
2.1 



14.1 
83.1 

1.6 
1.2 



ANIMAL FATS 



465 



B— COMPOSITION OF BUTTER-Pl':iU'KNTAGES 



Samples From 
Various Sources 


Water 


Salt 


Curd 


Butter 
Fat 


S|)ecifi(r 
CJravity 

at mr 

F. 


Fixed 
Acid 


Soluble 
Acid 


Melting 
Point 


No. 1 


7.55 
11.71 
16.89 
16.28 
11.42 
12.55 
12.96 
13.40 
12.05 
14.62 


1.03 
3.60 
8.56 
3.32 
1.29 

.80 
2.43 
1.39 

.96 
1.48 


1.15 
.95 
1.23 
1.56 
1.12 
.74 
1.25 
2.03 
1.95 
1.88 


90.27 
8.3.74 
73.32 

78.84 
86.15 
85.82 
83.36 
83.18 
85.04 
82.04 


913.89 
911.45 
911.48 
912.79 
910.47 
910.20 
912.51 
911.67 
911.04 
910.70 


85.56 

88.24 
88.22 
86.00 
88.53 
89.00 
88.25 
88.72 
87.51 
89.00 


7.41 
5.41 
4.64 
7.00 
8.44 
4.57 
5.45 
5.07 
5.28 
4.50 


85.0** F. 


No. 2 


90.0° F. 


No. 3 


89.5" F. 


No. 4 


88.5° F. 


No. 5 


90.0° F. 


No. 6 


90.0° F. 


No. 7... 


89.0° F. 


No. 8 


90.0° F. 


No. 9 


88.0° F. 


No. 10 


91.0° F. 







According to Hutchison, the percentage of fat in butter varies within 
fairly wide limits, but the average is about 82 per cent, or twice as much 
as the amount in cream. ^'An ounce of butter may therefore be reckoned 
as the equivalent of four-fifths of an ounce of pure fat." Butter contains 
twelve to fifteen per cent of w^ater and about two per cent of non-fatty 
organic matter, casein and milk sugar. 

Digestion of Butter. — The value of butter as a source of fat in 
the dietetic treatment of various diseases is very great. It is so easily 
digested that it may be ingested freely by those suffering from consump- 
tion, dyspepsia of various forms and diabetes. A daily ration of one- 
quarter of a pound may be eaten with impunity, and the nutritive value 
is great. It is a well-known fact that butter used in cooking not infre- 
quently causes indigestion, doubtless due to the liberation of the fatty 
acids by the heat. 

It has been determined that with the daily ration of one-quarter of 
a pound the excretion of waste from it does not reach five per cent. No 
other form of fat is so thoroughly assimilated and this fact should em- 
phasize the dietetic value of butter as compared with cod liver oil and 
other similar medicinal fats, a large number of which prove indigestible 
and difficult to assimilate. 

LARD.— Lard is hog fat separated by melting from the areolar con- 
nective tissue. There are several grades of hog fat. The highest grade 
is known as leaf lard, which comes from the fat surrounding the kidneys. 
Refined lard is a second grade, and the two lower grades are called 



466 FATS AND OILS 

respectively, steam rendered lard and prime steam lard. Lard is fre- 
quently stiffened by the addition of lard stearin. Lard thus treated 
keeps better in warm climates and is, therefore, more satisfactory. Lard 
oil is obtained by subjecting lard contained in woolen bags to hydraulic 
pressure. The expressed oil is chiefly olein, of a pale yellow color and 
a peculiar bland taste. The principal use of lard from a culinary stand- 
point is for "shortening," to diminish the adhesiveness of flour in making 
bread and cakes and for preventing the pastry from being tough. 

TALLOW.— Tallow is beef fat obtained from the different tissues of 
cattle. 

SUET.— Suet is mutton fat or that part of the fat surrounding the 
kidney of the sheep. 

OLEOMARGARIN.— Oleomargarin is a compound of beef fat with 
mutton fat, lard oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, corn oil, sesamine 
oil, cocoanut oil, stearin and other oils and fats, which are ground to- 
gether by specially designed machinery and subjected to steam heat under 
pressure. The wholesomeness of the product is regulated by act of Con- 
gress. It is a good substitute for butter and is more palatable than poor 
butter. There is some demand for it as a food product, as 50,000,000 
pounds of it are sold annually. 

BUTTERINE.— Butter ine has largely replaced oleomargarin. It is 
made in a similar manner, only the ingredients differ in proportion and 
the leaf lard of the hog is added during the process of manufacture. 

BONE MARROW.— Bone marrow is an easily digested and wholesome 
form of fat which has long been used as a food. The marrow of the 
young animals, such as the calf and lamb, is supposed to contain more 
tissue-building elements than the marrow of mature animals. This should 
be borne in mind, particularly if an anemic or chlorotic patient is to be 
treated. It is a very soft, rich fat. 

PEMMICAN.— Pemmican is made of meat cut in slices and dried in 
the sun, to which fat, sugar and dried fruit, such as raisins and currants, 
are added. It is used on long voyages, especially in the Arctic regions, 
where a fatty diet is essential to produce heat and force. 

OTHER FATS.— The fat of a good roast of beef is very nutritious. 
A very digestible variety of fat is good breakfast bacon, thinly sliced 
and broiled. This form of crisp fat is often digested by invalids who 
cannot tolerate other fats. Ham fat and pork fat are usually very di- 
gestible, especially when ingested hot. 

Brains and liver of animals contain considerable quantities of fat, 
and when taken as a food furnish fat in an agreeable form. 



VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS ^4^7 

FISH FATS.— The foiniiKin li«h which cMjiitain hirge amounts of fat are 
the eel, salmon, herring and niackerel. Sardines contain some fat, but 
no doubt the oil in wliich they are preserved exceeds the fish oil in fuel 
value. ^Many species of fish are rich in oil. The Eskimo eats whale 
blubber (fat). The oil of the slunjron is extensively employed to pre- 
serve caviare. 

Cod Livkr Oil. — Cod liver oil is nuinufactured from the fresh raw 
livers of the codfish by subjecting tlicni to heavy pressure. It is one of 
the most easily absorbed of all the oils. Its taste is objectionable to most 
people. Cod liver oil is much used as a therapeutic agent, and the reader 
is referred to text-books on materia tnedica and therapeutics for further 
information on this product. 



VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS 

Vegetable Fats and Oils — Vegetable fats and oils are derived in great- 
est abundance from the seeds of plants and are extracted by pressing the 
crushed seeds. Most of the cold drawn vegetable oils from seeds and 
fruits are suitable for culinary purposes or for the preservation of food- 
stufTs. The elimination of all fatty acids from edible oils is a very im- 
portant process, brought about by the use of alkalies or alkaline earths 
during the process of manufacture. These oils should not congeal at tem- 
])eratures near the freezing point. Olive oil does not congeal, but some 
other oils, such as cottonseed oil and peanut oil, which contain stearin, 
have to be demargarined to prevent congealing. To prevent this the oils 
are stored for the winter months in large tanks to allow the stearin to 
settle or crystallize out. The clear oil may be withdrawn from this, or 
the stearin may be removed by filtering or by centrifugalization. 

VALUE OF VEGETABLE OILS AND FATS.— Vegetable fats and oils are 
very valuable for the production of heat and energy for the body. Com- 
pared with sugar, vegetable fats are about two and a half times as effective 
and are to be regarded as a very concentrated form of nutriment. 

ABSORPTION OF VEGETABLE FATS.— Unless fats and oils are well 
emulsified and saponified they will be decomposed in the intestines into 
fatty acids and glycerin, which recombine when passing through the intes- 
tinal wall. 

Since vegetable oils are readily absorbed after proper emulsifica- 
tion and saponification, they may be ingested in relatively large quanti- 
ties, and are extremely useful for the diet in the treatment of certain 



468 



FATS AND OILS 



diseases. The principal uses of vegetable oils and animal fats like lard 
are for "shortening" pastry and for frying foods. Fried foods, however, 
are difficult to digest, because the material becomes saturated with fat, 
which acts as a barrier to the free penetration of the digestive enzymes. 
This prevents ready contact with the carbohydrates and proteins of the 
food substance. If food is to be cooked in "deep fat," the process used 
in cooking doughnuts, it is important that the heat should be sufficiently 
high so that very little of the fat is absorbed. 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF OIL-BEARING VEGETABLES.— The fol- 
lowing table, from Professor A. A. Church, contains a list of oil-bearing 
vegetable products, with the percentage composition present in each: 



Palm Nut (pulp) 


contains 72 


per cent oi 


Brazil Nut (seeds) 




i 


67 


(( ct 


Almond (kernels) 




i 


54 


il it 


Ground Nut (peanut) 




i 


52 


(( It 


Sesame (seeds) 




i 


51 


u u 


Poppy (seeds) 




I 


45 


u u 


Olive (pulp) 




u 


39 


il 11 


Olive (kernels) 




\i 


44 


a it 


Cacao (seeds) 




u 


44 


U (( 


Cocoanut (meats) 




u 


36 


(( (t 


Hemp (seeds) 




u 


32 


il ft 


Walnut 




t 


32 


11 it 


Cotton (seeds) 




t 


24 


It it 


Sunflower (seeds) 




( 


22 


11 it 


Oatmeal 




I 


10 


it It 


Com (maize) 




i 


5 


u u 



This may be supplemented by the following, which are of less com- 
mercial importance : rape seed, mustard seed, tomato seed, raisin or grape 
seed, apricot and peach kernels, which are all of some commercial value. 
Flaxseed, from which linseed oil is made, is of great commercial im- 
portance. 

Palm Oil. — Palm oil is obtained by cold pressing the soft part of 
the fruit of numerous varieties of palm trees in many tropical countries. 
It is semisolid at ordinary temperatures and has an agreeable taste. Palm 
oil is extensively used for food purposes. Its chief constituent is pal- 
mitin. The palm nut, from the kernels of which palm nut oil is manu- 
factured, is obtained from the same tree. This product is used in the 
manufacture of butterine and other Ijutter substitutes, and is sold as vege- 



VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS 469 

table butter under various trade-marked names. Palm oil or butter is 
used extensively by the natives in districts where it is produced. 

Almond Oil. — Almond oil is obtained from either the bitter or sweet 
almond. The former contains a greater percentage of oil and is more 
generally used. This almond nut is grown extensively in countries around 
the ^lediterranean Sea. Almond oil is sometimes adulterated with 
cheaper oils made from apricot and })cach kernels. Almond oil is of a 
clear yellow color and a bland taste. 

Peanut Oil. — Peanut oil is obtained by the cold hydraulic pressing 
of peanuts. The best quality of peanut oil, called cold drawn oil, comes 
from the first pressing. Subsequent pressings and pressing with 'leat 
yield oil of a lower grade. The residue left is rich in proteins and starch 
and is valuable as a stock food. The principal use of peanut oil is for a 
salad oil, either alone or mixed with other oils. Recently it has been 
largely used as an adulterant for olive oil and is itself sometimes adul- 
terated with cottonseed or poppy seed oils. Peanut oil is an excellent 
substitute for lard in "shortening" or in other culinary uses. It is supe- 
rior to most oils for the "deep frying" of foods. 

Sesame Oil. — Sesame oil is obtained by pressing the seeds of the 
sesamum orient ale ^ a native plant of southern Asia. The best grades of 
this oil are a golden yellow, free from any disagreeable taste or odor, and 
may be used in place of olive oil for salads. Cold drawn sesame oil is 
considered quite equal to olive oil as a salad oil. It has a slight amber 
color, a grain-like odor and a pleasing, bland taste. 

Poppy Seed Oil. — Poppy seed oil is made from the seeds of the black 
and white poppies. These are grown extensively in Europe, Turkey, 
Persia, India, China and Germany, to extract the oil made from the seeds, 
as well as the inspissated juice of the same, which supplies the opium of 
the world. The better grades of poppy seed oil are of a light color and 
have an agreeable taste. This oil is also much used in foreign countries 
as salad oil. 

Olive Oil. — Olive oil is obtained from the pulp and sometimes from 
the kernels of the olive fruit. The better grade of olives produce from 
40 to 60 per cent of oil. It is called virgin oil when taken from the first 
pressing. The poinace, then taken from the press, reground, mixed with 
water and repressed, produces a second grade of oil in the process of 
manufacture. After the high grade oils are extracted, they are further 
purified by being placed in tanks and washed with water, then allowed to 
stand until the pulp and gummy material settle to the lx)ttom, when the 
oil is carefullv drawn off. Olive oil is frequently adulterated by the addi- 



470 FATS AND OILS 

tion of cottonseed oil and peanut oil. Kape seed oil and poppy seed oil 
are frequently used as adulterants of olive oil in Europe. This can be 
readily detected by chemical analysis. When pure olive oil from the 
first pressing leaves the press it is of a dark green color from the pres- 
ence of chlorophyl, but most of this is deposited in the tanks. Olive oil 
has a peculiar faint odor and a bland, pleasant taste. 

Mustard Seed Oil. — Mustard seed oil is produced in Switzerland 
and Italy and commonly used in those countries as a substitute for olive 
oil. 

Caca.o Fat. — Cacao fat or oil of theohroma is one of the few vege- 
table oils that is solid at ordinary temperatures. It is prepared by pres- 
sure of roasted and crushed cacao beans or nibs. This oil is obtained dur- 
ing the manufacture of chocolate. Cacao butter has a pleasant odor and 
flavor faintly suggestive of chocolate. It is extensively used in pharma- 
cies and in the manufacture of perfumes. On account of its high price 
it is frequently adulterated with cocoanut oil, palm oil, beeswax and 
paraffin. 

CocoANUTS. — Cocoanuts have long been a source of fat. There are 
several names for the oil made from this nut, dependent upon the country 
in which it is made. The meat of the cocoanut includes the milk which 
is gradually absorbed as the nut reaches maturity. The milk is used by 
the natives in the same way as cow's milk. The oil is obtained from the 
sun-dried kernels. This is prepared by the natives by boiling the kernels 
in water and removing the fat by skimming. 

Cocoanut oil is semi-solid at ordinary temperatures, keeps well and is 
free from fatty acids. It is seldom adulterated on account of its cheap- 
ness. It is extensively used for culinary purposes. This oil must not be 
mistaken for salad oil, to which it is inferior. Cocoanut oil is a fat of 
moderate consistency, nearly as hard as lard, and has an agreeable flavor, 
pleasant taste and aroma. 

Cottonseed Oil. — Cottonseed oil is manufactured from the seed of 
the cotton plant. The seed is passed through machines which remove the 
linters, when they are transferred to a shelter where the hull is broken 
and separated from the kernels in a winnowing machine. The kernels 
are then crushed between massive steam rollers and put into steam- 
jacketed kettles, where they are cooked, with constant agitation. The 
mass is then shaped into cakes surrounded by cloth and subjected to from 
3,000 to 4,000 pounds hydraulic pressure to the square inch. This process 
yields about 45 gallons of cottonseed oil from a ton of cottonseed. The 



VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS 471 

oil obtained is purified and the residue from the seed is broken up and 
ground to a meal and put on the market as a stot^k food. The process of 
purifying the crude cottonseed oil is an intricate one. Purified cottonseed 
oil as u food product has become popular in the last dec-ade. It is prac- 
tically tasteless and odorless and is as wholesome as animal fat. It is 
admirably adapted to many culinary uses. 

Sunflower Seed Oil. — Sunflower seed oil has not been utilized to 
much extent in the United States, although the seeds contain considerable 
oil. In some European countries sunflower seeds are eaten as an ordinary 
food. The plant is extensively cultivated in Russia, Hungary, India and 
China for food purposes. The oil made from the seeds is palatable and 
needs no refining to make an excellent salad dressing. The best grade of 
oil is obtained by cold pressure of the whole seeds. 

Corn Oil. — Corn oil is manufactured from the germs of the grains 
of Indian corn or maize. The germ contains more than 20 per cent of oil, 
the odor and taste of which are agreeable. This oil is frequently mixed 
with other vegetable oils and used largely in the manufacture of oleomar- 
garin and lard substitutes. Corn oil is a by-product of starch and glu- 
cose factories and contains stearic, palmitic and oleic acids. 

Rape Oil. — Rape oil is made from the rape seed, which produces an 
excellent oil for culinary purposes. The "cold drawn" oil is of the best 
quality. The plant is grown extensively all over Europe, also in India 
and China. Fresh rape seed oil has an agreeable taste and odor, but on 
long standing it becomes rancid. The oil is frequently adulterated with 
cheaper oil, such as cottonseed and hemp seed and poppy seed oil. 

Mustard Oil. — Mustard oil is an excellent bland oil, sometimes used 
in place of animal fat for culinary purposes. This oil as extracted by 
pressure is a by-product in the preparation of mustard as a condiment. 

Tomato Seed Oil. — Tomato seed oil is employed especially in Italy 
as a salad oil. 

Apricot Kernel Oil. — Apricot kernel oil and peach kernel oil are 
both edible oils and important articles of commerce. They are princi- 
pally used as an adulterant to almond oil. 

Soy Bean Oil. — The soy bean oil contains from 18 to 19 per cent of 
oil which is of such good quality that it will in time no doubt come into 
general use. 

Linseed Oil. — Linseed oil is manufactured from flaxseed. It is some- 
times used as a substitute for olive oil, but is not very digestible. Its prin- 
cipal use from a commercial point of view is in the painter's trade. 



472 FATS AND OILS 

Summary 

The use of fatty foods, fats and oils may be briefly summarized as fol- 
lows, viz. : 

1. They yield force for energy and work. 

2. Their consumption supplies heat. 

3. They yield more heat than the other classes of food. 

4. They accumulate in the body as a storage of reserve force. 

5. They furnish protection to many important tissues and organs. 

6. They serve to lubricate and make more plastic various structures 
of the body. 

7. They give to the surface of the body rotundity and contour of curve 
which is in the line of beauty. 



EEFEKENCES 

1. Dyee, D. C. Progressive Oxidation of Cold Storage Butter, J. 
Agric. Research, 1916, vol. vi, 927. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Amberger. Influence of Eood on Composition of Butter Fat, Ztschr. f. 

Untersuch. d. ^N^ahrungs- u. Genussmittel, 1907, vol. xiii, pp. 

614-621. 
Behrend and Wolfs. Butter Fats from Individual Cows, Ztschr. f. 

Untersuch. d. E'ahrungs- u. Genussmittel, 1902, vol. v. pp. 689- 

719. 
Browne. A Contribution to the Chemistry of Butter Fat, J. Am. Chem. 

Soc., 1899, vol. xxi, pp. 612-633, 807-827, 975-994. 
GiBBS and Agcaoili. Lard from Wild and Domestic Philippine Hogs 

and the Changes Effected by Feeding Copra Cake, Philippine 

J. Sc, 1910, series A, vol. v, p. 33. 
Klein. The Olive Oil Industry in Portugal, J. f. Landwirtschaft, 1911- 

1912, vol. Ix, pp. 31-73. 
Lindsay, et al. Effect of Feed on Butter Fat, Mass. Agric. Exper. Sta. 

Rep. for 1908, pp. 66-110; Chemical Abstracts, 1910, vol. iv, 

p. 1774. 
McCoLLUM and Davis. The N'ecessity of Certain Lipins in the Diet 

during Growth, J. Biol. Chem., 1913, vol. xv, pp. 167-176. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 473 

Osborne and Mendel. The Influence of Butter Fat on Growth, J. Biol. 
Chem., 1913, vol. xvi, pp. 423-437. (See also 1914, vol. xvii, 
pp. 401-408.) 

Rogers and Gray. Influence of Acidity of Cream on Flavor of Butter, 
U. S. Dept. Agric, Bureau Aninuil Indust., 1013, Bull. 114. 

Shaw. A New Method for Determining Fat and Salt in Butter, Espe- 
cially Adapted for Use in Creameries, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bu- 
reau Animal Indust., 1912, Circular 202. 

Simmons and Mitchell. Edible Fats and Oils. 

SwAViNG. Influence of Feeding Cottonseed and Sesame Meal on the 
Properties of Butter Fat, Ztschr. f. Untersuch. d. Nahrungs- u. 
Genussmittel, 1903, vol. vi, pp. 97-115. 

ToLMAN and Munson. Olive Oil and Its Substitutes, U. S. Dept. Agric, 
Bureau Chem., 1902, Bull. 77. 

Walker. Coconuts and Coconut Oil, Philippine J. Sc, 1906, vol. i, 
pp. 58-117. 

Wesson. Bleaching of Oil with Fuller's Earth, J. Indust. & Engin. 
Chem., 1911, vol. iii, p. 126. 

. The Chemist and the Cottonseed Oil Industry in America, J. 

Indust. & Engin. Chem., 1912, vol. iv, pp. 64-65. 



CHAPTER XV 

FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 
M. E. Jaffa, M.D. 



General Considerations : Fruits in Relation to Climate; Classification of 

Fruits; Chemical Composition of Fruits; Importance of Fruits; 

Digestion and Absorption of Fruits. 
Tree Fruits: Pomaceous, Citrus, Moraceous, Anonaceous, Myrtaceous, 

Sapotaceous, Anacardiaceous, Ebenaceous, Leguminous, Palmaceoua 

Fruits and Miscellaneous Tree Fruits. 
Ampelidaceous or Vine Fruits: Passifloreous Fruits. 
Small Bush Berries. 
Herb-like Fruits. 
Nuts. 

Garden Fruits. 
Preservation of Fruits by Cold Storage. 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

Fruits in Relation to Climate. — Edible fruits show the greatest range 
in form, color and appearance, and are found in almost countless varie- 
ties the world over. This is more or less nature's index for man's neces- 
sity. 

That fruits grow in greatest abundance in hot climates and are less 
profuse in the cold regions of the earth, emphasizes the fact that in warmer 
climates, fruits and non-stimulating vegetables are better suited for foods, 
while the more stimulating animal foods are better suited for the inhab- 
itants of the colder climates. This teleological argimient favors more 
fruits and vegetables and less animal foods in the summer and the reverse 
in the winter months, even in the temperate regions. 

The number of kinds of fruit indigenous to the temperate region is 
very small compared with the great number of varieties in the tropics. 
Some of the native fruits of the temperate zone still grow wild ; but the 
32 475 



476 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

cultivated varieties of apples, pears, plums, strawberries and raspberries 
and other fruits have been greatly improved by cultivation, in size, taste 
and appearance. The cultivated varieties of apple are a superior fruit to 
their original parent, the crabapple, while the delicious cultivated plum 
shows a great contrast to the parent sloe. 

RECENT PROGRESS IN FRUIT TRANSPORTATION.— Though the variety 
of fruits grown in temperate climates is small, the rapid methods of trans- 
portation and storage have placed the superabundance of the tropics and 
the delicate fruits and vegetables of the whole world within our reach. 
Apples, pears, plums, oranges, lemons, grapefruit, pineapples, mangoes, 
sapodillas, mangosteens, persimmons, alligator pears and various other 
fruits are brought from many parts of the world. Many of these formerly 
were rarely seen on fruit stands. Now they are never absent. 

Classification of Fruits. — The following classification of fruits most 
cultivated is taken in part from Bailey's(l) ^'Principles of Fruit Grow- 
ing." While completeness is not claimed, yet it will serve as an inventory 
of the more staple fruits grown in the temperate and subtropical climates. 
For convenience we divide fruits into the following: 

CLASS I, TREE FRUITS 

Classification Varieties 

1. Pomaceous Fruits Apple, pear, quince and medlar. 

2. Drupaceous Fruits Plum, peach, apricot and cherry, 

3. Citrous Fruits Orange, lime, lemon, grapefruit and kumquat. 

4. Moraceous Fruits Fig, mulberry and bread fruit. 

5. Anonaceous Fruits . ; Sour apple, sugar apple and pawpaw. 

6. Myrtaceous Fruits Guava, rose apple and Surinam cherry. 

7. Sapotaceous Fruits Sapodilla, marmalade and star apple. 

8. Anacardiaceous Fruits Mango and Jew plum. 

9. Ebenaceous Fruits Persimmon and Japan persimmon. 

10. Leguminous Fruits St. John's bread and tamarind. 

11. Nut Fruits Walnut, butternut, chestnut, pecan, almond, chin- 

quapin, filbert, hickory nut, etc. 

12. Palmaceous Fruits Dates and cocoanuts. 

13. Miscellaneous Tree Fruits. . . Olive, pomegranate, alligator pear and Mammee 

apple. 

CLASS II, VINE FRUITS 

14. Ampelidaceous Fruits Fox grape, muscadine, scuppemong. 

15. Passifloreous Fruits Granadilla, Passiflora edulis and others. 



GENEIUL CONSIDERATIONS 



477 



CLASS III, SMALL BUSH FRUITS 

16. Bush Fruits Haspborry, blackberry, wineberry, dewberry, cur- 

rant, fi:<M>8eberry, June berry, huckleberry, 
loganberry. 

17. Strawberry Common strawlM'rrj', wild Htrawberr>', Virginian 

strawberry, Alpine strawberry and others. 

18. Cranberries 

19. Herb-like Fruits Banana, pineapple, prickly pear, Barbadoes goose- 

berry. 



Chemical Composition of Fruits. — Fruit contains, besides sugar, salts 
and organic acids, a vegetable substance called pectin^ ^A2^^A%^z2y which 
has already been described. The nutritive value of fruit depends xx^m 
its percentage of sugar. Fruit sugar, or grape sugar, is glucose or dex- 
trose CeHjaOg. It is found in large quantities in such fruits as grapes, 
which contain from 10 to 25 per cent; dried figs, 60 to 70 per cent; cher- 
ries, 11 per cent; mulberries, 9 per cent; currants, strawberries and whor- 
tleberries, each 6 per cent, and raspberries, 4 per cent. Fruit also con- 
tains an uncrystallizable invert sugar, levulose, CgHigOe- When pure, 
levulose is a sirup; it exists in combination with dextrose in many 
fruits and vegetables, notably in grapes, figs, cherries, gooseberries, straw- 
berries, peaches and plums. In dried fruits the levulose increases at the 
expense of the dextrose, which is inverted by means of a ferment or en- 
zyme as in raisins. 

ACIDS IN FRUIT.— The organic fruit acids are citric, malic, acetic, 
tartaric, oxalic, salicylic and boric acids alone, or combined with bases, 
to form salts of potassium, sodium, calcium, etc., or they may be com- 
mingled with phosphates, carbonates, sulphates and chlorids of such bases 
in smaller proportion. 

Malic acid (II3C4II4O5) is present in generous quantity in apples, 
pears, red and white currants, blackberries and raspberries, quinces, pine- 
apples and cherries. Citric acid (H3C6H5O7) is found in lemons, limes, 
oranges, gooseberries, strawberries and raspberries, and tartaric acid 
(H2C4H4O6) predominates in grapes, though it exists also in other fruits. 
Salicylic acid is sparingly present, probably in the form of methyl ester, 
in plums, cherries, currants, grapes, strawberries, raspberries, etc. Boric 
acid is said to be present in oranges and lemons. The flavor and aroma 
of fruits are due to the various ethers of the particular variety of fruits. 

The above acids are present in varying proportions in fruit juices 
where they occur usually as acid salts of potassium, sodium or calcium, 



478 FKUITS, NUTS AND GAKDEN FKUITS 

imparting an agreeable flavor to the fruit and adding a wholesome and 
stimulating variety to the food. The flavor and aroma of the fruit are 
due to various ethers and essences which have been prepared in imitation 
in the chemical laboratory by mixing ethereal salts and oils with each 
other until the odor of every fruit has been imitated. 

CARBOHYDRATES.— The carbohydrates, such as cane sugar, grape 
sugar, fruit sugar, include the principal nutritive constituents. The 
special kind of sugar present depends upon the stage of ripeness of the 
fruit, as many chemical changes occur during the ripening and maturing 
process. The amount of the different sugars and of the acid in various 
fruits, according to Leach, is about as follows (2) : 

ACID AND CARBOHYDRATE CONTENT OF FRUITS 

Cane Sugar Reducing Sugar Acid 

Apricots 6.04 2.74 1.864 

Pineapples 11.33 1.98 0.547 

English Cherries 0.00 10.00 0.661 

Lemons 0.41 1.06 4.706 

Figs 0.00 11.55 0.057 

Strawberries 6.33 4.98 0.550 

Raspberries 2.01 5.22 1.380 

Gooseberries 0.00 6.40 1.574 

Oranges 4.22 4.36 0.448 

Peaches (green) 0.92 1.07 3.900 

Pears (Madeleine) 0.36 8.42 0.115 

Apples 2.19 5.45 0.633 

Prunes 5.24 2.43 1.288 

Grapes (hothouse) 0.00 17.26 0.345 

Grapes (green) 0.00 1.60 2.485 

Bananas 20.00 20.00 0.300 

Apples 5.28 8.72 1.148 

VARYING COMPOSITIONS.- The composition of fruits of the same fam- 
ily, even of the same garden or tree, varies. These variations will be re- 
ferred to in the following paragraphs. The average composition in carbo- 
hydrates, protein, fat and inorganic constituents will be found in Chapter 
XIX — "Analysis of Foods," to which the reader is referred. The protein 
and fat content is so small as to be negligible in all calculations on dietet- 
ics. Since the starches and sugars of various kinds possess the same nutri- 
tive value, this analysis shows the food and fuel value of fruits fairly 
well. 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ^79 

Importance of Fruits. — The great importance and therapeutic value of 
fresh fruits, more partic.uhirly for the inhahitants of towns and cities, can- 
not be too strongly emphasized. The organic acids in fruit arouse the 
appetite, and, by increasing the flow of saliva and indirectly the flow of 
the gastric juice, materially aid digestion. When the friiit first reaches 
the intestines, its acids increase the acidity of the chyme and stimulate the 
secretions of the liver and pancreas, the intestinal glands and muscula- 
ture; their influence upon the blood is peculiar; by combining with a por- 
tion of the alkaline salts of the blood scrum the blood is rendered less alka- 
line, hut never acid. The action of the phosphoric acid is to augment the 
phosphates of the red blood cells; hence fruits are antiscorbutic and of 
great value in anemia, general debility, and convalescence from acute ill- 
ness. 

Tomatoes, gooseberries and strawberries, on account of the oxalates 
contained in their chemical content, are of value for persons suffering from 
amenorrhea, bronchitis and asthma. 

Strawberries, raspberries, currants, oranges and blackberries contain 
salicylic acid and are a valuable addition to the dietary of rheumatics. 

Digestion and Absorption of Fruits — The digestibility of fruit in the 
stomach and intestine depends largely on the nature of the fruit and its 
degree of ripeness. Two small apples require about three hours for diges- 
tion by the stomach. On the other hand, if the fruit is unripe, the 
cellulose is greater and digestion will be more difficult Unripe fruits 
containing an excess of acids may be irritating to the intestine and are 
frequently the cause of colic and diarrhea, more especially in young 
children. On the other hand, in ripe fruits the cellulose and acids excite 
only gentle stimulation and may be very useful. Owing to their liberal 
cellulose content and the acid salts contained in fruits they stimulate 
intestinal activity and relieve constipation. 

The absorption of fruits corresponds very closely with the absorption 
of fresh vegetables. The final stage in the digestion of fruit is the conver- 
sion of the fruit acid salts into alkaline salts, chiefly carbonates. They are 
therefore valuable adjuvants to the diet in scurvy, rheumatism, gout and 
other diseases of the uric acid diathesis. They increase the secretion of 
the urine and its alkalinity. Indeed fruits are the most certain agents to 
render the urine alkaline, to stimulate the kidneys and indirectly the skin, 
thereby increasing the total excretion of salts and other materials. 



480 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

TREE FRUITS 
POMACEOUS FRUITS 

Varieties of Pomaceous Fruits — APPLE.— Apples (Pyrus malus) come 
under the first class of fruits. They are essentially a fruit of the tem- 
perate regions of the earth. Apple trees are indigenous to most parts of 
the world and thrive wherever the oak grows. All the cultivated varieties 
of apples have been derived from the crab or wild apple, and its cultiva- 
tion is prehistoric. Apples were introduced into England by the Romans, 
who highly appreciated the excellent edible qualities of the fruit. 



P£ras£r\ 

25<fo 

I I s/r/o/v o/^ £:o/BL£ 

I I PO/RT/ON 

ED/BLE \ ] .6^0 i^T£/? 

Fig. 42. — Composition of the Apple. ( Bull. No. 293, U. S. Dept. Agric. ) 

Apples for dessert should be characterized by a firm, juicy pulp, 
piquant flavor, regular form and beautiful coloring. Such apples are the 
Baldwin, Banana, Bellflower, Ben Davis, Codlin, Fallawater, Hubbard- 
ston, None-Such, Greening, King Pippin, Northern Spy, Newtown Pip- 
pin, Winesap, Norton Melon, Spitzenburg, Roxbury, Russet, McCrosky 
and Opalescent apples. Red Astrachan, Yellow Bell Flower and others. 
Apples for cooking are characterized by the property of forming, by the 
aid of heat, a jelly-like mushy mass of even consistency, commonly termed 
apple-sauce. 

Chemical Compositioi^ of Apples. — The pectin bodies contained in 
apples are substances which give the fruit juice the property of forming 
a thick mass or jelly, especially by boiling, in cooking, and often by con- 
tinued exposure to sunlight. Pectin is present in nearly all fruits, al- 
though some are better adapted to jelly making than others. Fruits 
yield this gelatinous material best by being cooked with water. In the 
case of berries and very juicy fruits but little water is needed. Pectin is 
precipitated or thrown out of solution by such substances as alcohol, sugar. 



TREE FKLITS 481 

salt, etc. Therefore hard water should not bo used in attempting to make 
jelly from raw fruit. 

Pectin yields reducing sugars, furfural and mucic acid in vary- 
ing quantities. It is now held by the Department of Agriculture (Bulle- 
tin 41)) tliat pectin bodies are produced by chemical treatment from a 
combination of simple carbohydrates. The a])plc is a nmch used and 
highly prized fruit. The dietetic value of apples is very great, q&\^ 
oially as an antiscorbutic and laxative when taken on an empty stomach. 
The trophotherapeutic value of this fruit in regulating the constipation 
of dyspeptics is very great. 

Richards gives the following as the average composition of apples: 
Total solids, 13.65 per cent; ash, 0.288 per cent; acidity expressed as 
sulphuric acid, 8.73 per cent; cane sugar, 1.53 per cent; crude fiber, 
0.96 per cent Sugar is the most valuable and abundant nutrient present 

Wholesomeness of Apples. — Apples are a wholesome food either 
raw or cooked. They exert a mildly aperient action. Dyspeptics should 
not eat too freely of raw apples, but an abundance of cooked apples is not 
only pleasant but curative. Individuals of sedentary habits, whose livers 
are sluggish, will be benefited by the use of ripe apples, which will assist 
in eliminating noxious matters from the body. 

Apple Cider. — Apple cider is a fermented liquor made from the 
juice of apples and is not inferior to some wines when due attention is 
paid to the selection of the fruit and its manufacture into cider. It con- 
tains the acids and salts of the fruit, the acidity being sometimes increased 
by the acetous fermentation. 

THE PEAR. — The pear is a native of temperate Europe, Asia and 
Great Britain. All cultivated varieties are derived from the wild pear, 
with possibly some crossing with the snow pear — so called because it is 
eaten in the winter — of Austria and Italy. Of the numerous varieties, the 
most delectable are as follows: Bartlett, Bockworth, Flemish Beauty, 
Columbia, Kieffer, Lawrence, Manning, Mt. Vernon, Pound, Seckle, Ty- 
son and Winter Nele^s. Pears are not so commonly used for food as 
apples, because they are not so well adapted for cooking Good ripe pears 
are a delicious dessert fruit. They are characterized by a saccharin aro- 
matic juice, a soft, pearly, liquid pulp, which readily melts in the mouth 
in some varieties, principally the summer ones, but is firmer in most win- 
ter varieties. The Bartlett and Seckle varieties are especially adapted for 
canning. 

Perry. — Perry is a strong fermented beverage similar to cider, made 
from the juice of pears. It contains about the same percentage of alcohol. 



482 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

In some parts of England pears are grown for this purpose and the 
beverage is equal to champagne cider. 

QUINCE.— Quince grows freely wherever apples grow. It was known 
to the ancient Greeks and Romans and formed an important element in 
their religious rites and civil ceremonies. It is mentioned by Pliny and 
Plutarch as a deterrent against evil influences. It was naturalized at an 
early period in Persia and in the countries surrounding the Mediter- 
ranean. There are several varieties of the fruit. It is a handsome 
yellow pome, a hard, austere fruit, and is not edible in the raw state, but 
is much used for preserving in marmalades or jelly form. The quince 
has a fine flavor, which is communicated to any other fruit with which 
it is cooked. 



DRUPACEOUS FRUITS 

Varieties of Drupaceous Fruits — the plum.— The plum belongs to the 
drupe fruits, which have one or more stones or "pits" surrounded by an 
edible fleshy layer. Inside the stone or pit is a kernel which is also in 
some cases edible. There are about a dozen species of this fruit found in 
the north temperate zone of the globe. They are much used for tarts, jams 
and jellies. Plums are an agreeable, refreshing fruit containing about the 
same amount of nutriment as apples and pears; they are apt to cause 
diarrhea and should therefore be eaten sparingly by weak and delicate 
persons. 

PRUNES. — Prunes are a variety of plums which are largely preserved 
by drying. They are ovoid in shape, their exterior black and wrinkled, 
their pulp brownish. They contain a purgative principle which makes 
them of value as an aperient. They are grown extensively in Spain, 
France, California and other fruit-growing countries. It is estimated 
that California produces 150,000,000 pounds annually. The method 
of drying and preserving is outlined in the chapter on dehydration in 
Volume 11. 

Proper Method of Cooking Dried Fruits. — The proper way to 
cook prunes or other dried fruit is as follows : wash in warm water to re- 
move any grit ; drain ; cover with cold water and allov/ to stand for twelve 
hours ; let simmer slowly until cooked, but do not boil. 

DAMSONS.— The damson is a species of prune, of which there are many 
varieties. It was introduced from Damascus. The fruit grows on a tree 
not unlike the sloe. It is small and oval, of finer quality than the ordinary 
plum, and has more astringency. The favorite American varieties are the 



TUEE FKUITS 483 

bluish aiul dark purple damsons, which arc excellent for preserves and 
uiarinalades. 

THE PERSIMMON.— The persimmon (Diospyros virginiana), or date 
plum, came ()rii:;iiuilly from China. The fruit is succulent and of a red- 
dish yellow color when ripe. It contains eight or ten seeds. The green 
fruit is very astringent, but when ripened after frost it is sweet and 
palatable. The persimmon grows wild extensively, especially ill the 
Southern states. A beer is nuule by fermenting the ripe fruit with dried 
apples and locusts. The American persimmon contains 14.5 j)er cent of 
sugars, of which 13.5 per cent is glucose and the rest cane sugar. The 
pulp of the wholly ripened fruit is sweet and has an inviting flavor. 
Many excellent varieties of large size are now produced from the Amer- 
ican persimmon. 

THE PEACH. — The peach is a drupe of the genus prunece, introduced 
into fCurope from Persia. It is extensively cultivated in the semi-tropical 
regions of Europe, Africa and Asia and in many localities of the United 
States. The fruit is large and downy, with a kernel which contains a 
large proportion of amygdalin, which produces prussic acid. There are 
two sorts, one in which the flesh clings to the stone, and the other in 
which the ripened flesh freely leaves the stone. The flesh of the peach is 
well flavored, depending upon the presence of a small quantity of hydro- 
cyanic acid and fruit ethers. As peaches ripen, the reducing sugars de- 
crease in quantity while sucrose increases. It is well known that peaches 
picked before they are ripened and shipped to market in cold storage do 
not develop that fine peachy flavor which is found in peaches that reach 
maturity and ripen on the tree. 

Peaches are regarded as among the most delicious and valuable of all 
orchard fruits, for eating raw, for evaporating, preserving or canning. 
Lemon and orange "clings" and Crawfords are the most popular varieties 
for canning purposes. The nectarine is a variety of peach having a 
smooth skin and a reasonably firm pulp. There are two varieties, "free- 
stone" and "clings." 

Peach Brandy. — Peach brandy is a delicious alcoholic beverage made 
from fermented peach juice distilled. The product is very tasty and con- 
tains about 50 per cent absolute alcohol. 

APRICOTS.— Apricots, of delicious flavor, are cultivated extensively in 
China, Japan, Syria and California. This fruit belongs to the peach fam- 
ily and grows readily in warm and temperate climates. It is supposed to 
have its origin in Armenia. It was introduced into England about the 
sixteenth century. Unlike the peach, the skin of the apricot is not downy. 



484 FEUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

Analyses of ripe apricots show saccliarose, 3.8 per cent; invert sugar, 2.25 
per cent, and dextrose, 0.35 per cent. 

THE CHERRY.— The cherry has been improved from the wild cherry of 
Great Britain and Europe. Its origin appears to have been in the Cau- 
casus of Asia. It is said that when Lucullus returned to Rome after his 
victory over Mithri dates in the province of Pontus, he brought with him 
to adorn the triumph of his victory a cherry tree laden with fruit. There 
are more than two hundred and fifty varieties of cherries, some sweet and 
some sour. This fruit is extensively grown for the market in the United 
States. Some of the sweet varieties, like the red heart, black heart, white 
heart and ox heart, are admirably adapted for eating, while the sour cher- 
ries, like the Morello, Montmorencies and Dukes, are used for canning and 
for pies, tarts, brandied cherries and for making "cherry bounce." 

The Maraschino Cherry. — The Maraschino, grown in Italy, is 
largely used to decorate salads and cocktails. This cherry is prepared by 
bleaching the fruit in a solution of salt, washing thoroughly and then satu- 
rating with sugar or glucose and dyeing red or any desired tint with coal 
tar dyes and preserving in alcohol. They are sometimes flavored with 
almond oil. Large quantities of Maraschino cherries are shipped packed 
in brine to the United States from the province of Dalmatia in Austria. 
They are processed in this country. No matter where treated, very little 
of the original acids remains in the processed product. 

Cherry Brandy. — Cherry brandy is made by expressing the juice of 
ripe cherries and allowing it to undergo fermentation. It is then distilled, 
producing a brandy of piquant flavor and taste. 

Cherry Bounce. — Cherry bounce is made from sugar and brandy in 
which cherries have been soaked. This concoction is a tasty, pleasing bev- 
erage. 

Composition of Cherries. — Cherries are extensively cultivated in 
the most temperate climates of the earth. Their chief value lies in the 
fact that they are among the earliest fruit of the season. They contain 
cellulose, pectose, sugars, protein, acids, ethereal oils and salts and an 
unfermentable sugar sorhile. The cherry contains more than 20 per cent 
of solids, considerably more than apples, and 11 per cent of sugars. 
They are a most delicious, tasty fruit, raw or cooked. 

CITROUS FRUITS 

Description and Varieties of Citrous Fruits. — Citrous fruits include a 
number of botanical species, such as the orange, lemon, lime, mandarin, 



TREE FRUITS 4^5 

gi'apefruit, citron and kumcpiat. Tliese fniits were indi|;^nou8 to China 
and Asia, but were introduced very early into the countries surrounding 
the Mediterranean Sea and suhsetjuently into North America. These 
fruits are extensively grown in Southern (^ilifornia and Florida. They 
thrive where there is moisture and where the temperature does not fall 
below 18° F. or go above 95° F. These fruits are characterized by a thick 
])eel or rind which is not edible, but is used for the production of a volatile 
oil. The i)rincij)al acids of these fruits are citric acid (('flllsOT II2O), 
})hosphoric acid (II3PO4) and a little malic acid. The sugars, which are 
of both the cane and invert varieties,, range from 1 to 10 per cent. 

THE CITRON.— The citron is the fruit of the citron tree, a native of 
the warm parts of Asia. The fruit has nine loculi or cells forming a 
white pulp which is said to be less acid than the lemon. It is seldom eaten 
raw, being usually preserved. Tlie rind is the part used for confectionery, 
for instance in crystallized fruit. The citron is thick and spongy and has 
a fragrant aroma and an inviting taste. This fruit should be distin- 
guished from another fruit, or more properly a variety of watermelon of 
the sam.e name, which also has a pulp used as a confection. The sweet 
citron is a hybrid product of the citron and the orange and is a very 
delicious fruit. 

LIMES.— Limes grow in any region where the orange and lemon thrive. 
They are extensively cultivated in Italy, Florida and the West Indies. 
The fruit is oval, pale yellow and not suitable for eating. It is even 
sourer than the lemon. The principal varieties are: (a) the sweet lime, 
cultivated in gardens; (6) the lemon lime or sweet lemon, cultivated in 
Leguria; (c) the bergamot lime, grown in Calabria. The juice is ex- 
pressed and exported; the rind is very fragrant and yields an oil known 
as "essence of bergamot." Lime juice is not a medicine, but is valuable 
as an antiscorbutic. 

THE LEMON.— The lemon is a native of India, but is cultivated in 
most warm countries, especially Italy, Spain, Sicily, Florida and Cali- 
fornia. There are many varieties. Those most in demand are: (a) the 
Genoa lemon, oval in shape, skin thick and rough, with an abundance 
of sour juice; (h) the lustrato, or thin-skinned lemon, having a smooth, 
fragrant rind, delicate pulp, acid juice but agreeable taste and fragrant 
aroma, gro^vn to perfection only around Rome; (c) the sweet lemon; (d) 
the citron lemon, having a pulp like an orange, a peel like a lemon, and 
a rough, warty exterior, grown in Florida and California. This last is 
one of the most delicate of citrous fruits. 

CoMPOsiTioi?^ OF THE Lemois^. — ^When the lemon is allowed to ripen 



486 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FEUITS 

on the tree it becomes coarse and of an inferior quality. The choicest 
fruit, therefore, is picked green when it reaches marketable size. The 
lemon contains less than one-half of one per cent sugar and over five per 
cent of citric acid, H3C6H5O7. It is characterized by an essential oil, 
which is abundantly found in the rather thick rind. The oil of lemon 
contains citral (CioHigO), nonylaldehyde, acetylaldehyde, citronal, dex- 
trolimonene, cymen phellandrene and pinem(3). It is obtained by pres- 
sure of the fresh rind of ripe lemons by distilling it with water. 

The acids of the lemon occur both free and combined with a base, usu- 
ally potassium. On account of its composition, piquant acidity, low sugar 
content and the protection due to the hard rind of the fruit, it bears trans- 
portation and storage exceedingly well. The lemon is used the world over 
for flavoring, as a relish and for making cooling, refreshing beverages. 
Lemonade is an exceedingly piquant, pleasant, refreshing drink suitable 
for the use of people of a bilious temperament. The alkaline citrates of 
the juice enter the blood and undergo partial oxidation in the system into 
carbonic acid and water and partly to carbonates. Essence of lemon, a 
flavoring extract, is an alcoholic solution of the oil. The best fruit is 
gathered while still green after reaching a marketable size and allowed 
to ripen in open sheds. Lemons ripened on the trees are of a coarse 
quality. 

THE ORANGE.— Oranges are cultivated in all the warm countries of 
the world, in tropical and subtropical islands and archipelagoes. The 
orange is a globular golden-yellow fruit divided into eight or ten loculi or 
cells, each filled with a juicy and delicious pulp made up of a mass 
of oblong vesicles, containing seeds. When ripened on the tree, the 
orange has an extremely juicy pulp, which is sufficiently tender to be 
eaten with a spoon. It is one of the most fragrant, delicious and 
palatable fruits provided by nature; it is not very nutritious, but has 
valuable antiscorbutic and other salutary properties. Oranges are useful 
in feverish conditions, illness or convalescence, when fruit is not entirely 
forbidden. 

CoMPOsiTioisr OF THE Oeange. — The orange contains from 5 to 10 per 
cent of sugar, a part of which is sucrose or invert sugar. The percentage 
of acid reckoned as citric acid varies from one to two per cent. The pulp 
contains about 85 per cent of water ; the nutritive value, therefore, of the 
orange is not very high. It is a valuable fruit from a dietetic standpoint 
on account of its palatability, its mineral and organic salts and its general 
salutary influence on other food in the alimentary tract. 

The Chief Varieties of Oranges. — The chief varieties of oranges 



TREE FRUITS 487 

aro the folluwing: (a) Bitter Seville oranges, not very edible and used 
largely for inarinalade; (6) Sweet or China oranges, distinguished by a 
smooth, thin skin scarcely separable from the frUit. They are the finest 
edible oranges, excelling all others by the delicacy of the flavor and per- 
fume, and by an abundance of sugary juice; (c) the Portugal orange has 
a deep color and inviting aroma; (d) the navel orange is a large rounded 
oval fruit, receiving its appellation from its characteristic appearance. 
They are sweet, delicious and much prized. The navel orange is grown 
in the United States, Brazil and other countries; (e) the blood orange 
is the product of an orange tree grafted upon a pomegranate tree and is 
characterized by a change in color during ripening. Streaks of red ap- 
pear in the flesh as the fruit reaches maturity. This grows deeper in color 
until, when well ripened, the whole fruit, including the skin, is influenced 
by the coloring; (/) the tangerine orange is a small flat, highly perfumed 
fruit with agreeably flavored flesh; (g) the Mandarin orange, grown in 
Italy, Spain and Algeria, has a sweet and edible rind which is often easily 
separated from the fruit. It is red without and within and has a fine 
perfume. The Japanese or Satsuma orange is similar to the Mandarin 
and tangerine oranges. 

The Kumquat. — The kumqnat is a dwarf orange about the size of a 
large plum. The pulp is agreeably acid and the skin aromatic. It is a 
native of China, but is grown in many other countries. 

GRAPEFRUIT AND SHADDOCK.— The grapefruit and shaddock are the 
largest fruits of the citrus family. They are natives of Southern China 
and are very popular in the United States. According to some authori- 
ties the grapefruit and shaddock are two difl'erent varieties or species 
of citrus. The shaddock, named after Captain Shaddock, who introduced 
it into England, is the larger of the two. It often weighs ten or twelve 
pounds. The grapefruit is smaller and has a finer flavor. Grapefruit 
is now grown extensively in California, Florida and Cuba, and the Isle 
of Pines. The fruit is more sour than the orange but less sour than the 
lemon. The Cuban fruit is less acid and devoid of the bitterness which 
to some extent characterizes the Californian and other varieties. It has 
come to be regarded as a valuable addition to the American breakfast 
menu. 

MORACEOUS FRUITS 

Varieties of Moraceous Fruits — THE FIG.— The ^gy the fruit of the 
!N"atural Order of Moracece, is quite different in nature from the apple, 
orange or other seed-bearing fruit. It has a large receptacle containing 



488 FEUITS, NUTS AND GAEDEN FRUITS 

numerous very small flowers. The ripe carpels, which are called seeds, 
are imbedded in a saccharated pulp. They are eaten green, while they 
are fresh, or dried. Figs are very nutritious (4). 

The ^g has been cultivated from the remotest antiquity, as shown by 
ancient historic and sacred writings. It is mentioned in the Iliad as 
growing near Troy, and the sweet fig is mentioned in the Odyssey. Romu- 
lus and Remus according to tradition were nursed at the foot of a fig tree. 
The ^g grows chiefly over vast areas of Syria and Persia. There are 
numerous species, but the most noted is the common i^g. This is a native 
of Persia and adjacent countries.. The quality of preservation by means 
of drying early revealed its importance as a storage food of great value. 
It is very prolific, producing three crops each season in the Levant and in 

, -^.jo^ p/for£-//\f 

£D/BL£ POR770N { \ ^o.s</o r^r 

wo.oYq ro7>/£. 
Fig. 43. — Composition of the Fig. (Bull. No. 293, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 

Spain. A fig tree in its prime will produce from 100 to 200 pounds of 
figs at a bearing. The fruit grows to perfection in some southern states 
and in lower California. 

Fertilization of the Fig. — The male and female flowers of the fig 
grow upon separate trees. Fertilization is brought about by means of in- 
sects, notably by the fig wasps. The process is called caprification and has 
been studied alike by botanists and by entymologists. To fertilize the 
blossoms of the cultivated fig it is customary in eastern countries to hang 
upon the ^g trees branches of the wild fig-bearing fruit or capri figs. 
It has been observed that only by so doing can the cultivated fruit reach 
perfection in development and flavor. 

Botanists have found that capri figs or wild goat figs contain the male 
flowers, while the cultivated figs contain only female flowers. The 
flowers of the wild ^g contain numerous eggs of the ^g wasp. This in- 
sect when it has escaped from the staminate or male flower with her body 
covered with pollen, instinctively seeks a place for laying her eggs and 
finding the Smyrna figs near by, forces her way into the flower-bearing 
receptacle and thus fertilizes the pistillate flowers — that is, the wasp 




TREE FRFTTS 489 

carries the pollen from the male to the female flowers and thereby secures 
fertilization. 

NuTKiMENT OF Dried AND Frksh Figs. — ^I'resh green figs are a 
wholesome and agreeable fruit. Dried figs are nutritive by virtue of 
(10 to 70 per cent of sugar. They contain pectoral and liave demulcent 
and laxative properties. If eaten in excess they cause pain, flatulence 
and diarrhea. As a source of heat and energy they ha^e a very high 
fuel equivalent. One pound of figs will produce 1,475 heat units or 
calories of energy. Weight for weight, figs contain more nutrient prop- 
erties than bread. One-half pint of milk and six ounces of figs make a 
good meal. 

THE MULBERRY.— The mulberry consists of a collection of small 
drupes. It was introduced into England about the sixteenth century and 
is now cultivated in most countries of Europe, Asia and America. The 
fruit is agreeable and succulent. It has a characteristic flavor, is cooling 
and laxative. The tree is cultivated chiefly for its green leaves, as a food 
for silkworms. A wine is made from the juice and a vinegar from the 
wine. The fruit is of a deep red color, has a sweet flavor and piquant 
acidity. Mulberry and apple juice combined make a cider of port wine 
color. 

BREAD FRUIT. — Bread fruit is a large spurious fruit or sorosis (cov- 
ered with hooks) like the pineapple. It consists of a somewhat rounded 
fleshy mass six inches or more in diameter, greenish in color, and con- 
tains a white fibrous pulp Avhich becomes yellow and succulent during 
maturation. The taste of the pulp is somewhat similar to the cabbage. 
It is roasted before being eaten or made into bread. It is indigenous 
to Java and Ceylon, w^hose natives make favorite dishes from it. It has 
been cultivated from great antiquity. There are many varieties. Bread 
fruit forms the principal foodstuff of the Malay and South Sea Islands. 

ANONACEOUS FRUITS 

Varieties of Anonaceous Fruits — the sour apple.— The sour apple 
or sour sop is grown abundantly in Jamaica. It is a large conical or pod- 
like fruit from five to twelve inches long, about two-thirds as broad, taper- 
ing at the top to a rounded point. The pod may w^eigh as much as two 
pounds. It has a thick greenish-yellow skin, covered with hooks (sorosis). 
A fibrous core runs through the center surrounded with a white pulp, 
w^hich is pleasantly acid. It is used for making preserves and beverages. 
The trees grow wild in the West Indies and South America. 



490 FEUITS, NUTS AND GAKDEN FRUITS 

THE CUSTARD APPLE.— The custard apple is a native of the West 
Indies, but grows in all tropical countries. It is called bullock's heart in 
the East Indies. The fruit is the size of a tennis ball, spherical and of a 
greenish or dark brown color. The peculiarity of the fruit is that the 
edible pulp forming almost the entire mass is of the consistency of a cus- 
tard. The pulp tastes like clotted cream and sugar and has a pleasing 
odor simulating rose water. It surrounds a black seed and the whole is 
enclosed within a tough skin. It is delicious eaten raw. 

SUGAR APPLE.— The sugar apple is a West Indian fruit closely allied 
to the custard apple. It is heart shaped or ovoid, greenish yellow in color, 
covered with scales like tLe pineapple, and has a thick, sweet, luscious 
pulp. It is also called "sweet sop,'' and in British Indies "custard apple." 

THE PAWPAW.— Pawpaw fruit grows on small trees throughout the 
central United States. In size it resembles a large pear. The pulp has an 
odor and taste simulating bananas. The pawpaw has not been received 
with favor as a fruit on account of its peculiar taste. The pulp which 
surrounds the numerous large seeds is mucilaginous in character. This 
variety of pawpaw is an entirely different fruit from the tropical fruit of 
the same name. 

THE PAP AW.— The papaw is a native of Central America and of the 
East and West Indies. There are male and female papaw trees. The 
fruit grows on the female tree and reaches the size of a large muskmelon, 
deep green in color, becoming red as it ripens. The fruit consists of a soft 
yellow, sweet pulp, which contains numerous black seeds. The ripened 
fruit has a peculiar flavor. Papaw is eaten raw with salt or boiled as a 
vegetable. When mixed with lime juice it has a flavor resembling apples 
and is much used as a substitute for them. The juice of the unripe fruit 
is of a milky acrid character and acts as an efficient vermifuge. The 
juice also exerts an emmenagogue action, therefore neither the fruit nor 
the juice can be safely taken by pregnant women. The juice of the leaves 
contains fibrin, which, with this exception, is only found in the animal 
kingdom and in certain fungi. It also contains a proteolytic enzyme, 
papain, which exerts a powerful influence upon proteins. The fruit or 
its active principle promises to have a wide sphere of usefulness. 

Papaw Action on Tough Meats. — An infusion of the leaves will 
render tender the toughest meats. A gentleman residing in I^ueva Gerona, 
Isle of Pines, West Indies, states that boiling fresh killed beef in water 
with some of the infusion of papaw leaves will render it very tender in a 
short while. He also says that an old fowl killed and hung to the limb 
of a papaw tree overnight will become as tender as a freshly killed young 



TItEE FKUITS 491 

capon. Tho same effect may be obtained by wrapping the dressed fowl 
or cut of meat in the leaves of the tree. The dried extract of the leaves, 
called papayotin, is used commercially in the pr<^partion of meat extracts 
and other prepared foods. This extract as well as the fresh fruit is useful 
in the treatment of gastric disorders, ulcers of the stomach and duodenum, 
atony and other disorders of tho gastric mucosa. 

MYRTACEOUS FRUITS 

Varieties of Myrtaceous Fruits — THE (JIAVA.— The guava is a native 
of America, growing wild in the West Indies and Central America. There 
are several varieties. The fruit of the two principal ones resembles an 
apple or pear in shape. The common or white guava is a pear-shaped fruit 
about the size of a tennis ball, with a russet colored rind. The fruit grows 
on a small tree of the N. O. Myrtacece. The pulp is pink or white and of 
a sweet agreeable flavor. The red guava is apple shaped, the pulp is yel- 
lowish red, very acid, and is inferior to the white variety. The guava is 
not eaten raw, but as a jelly. As a marmalade it has a unique flavor. The 
composition of guava is 20 per cent solid material, including 1 per cent 
protein ; the remainder is chiefly invert sugar and organic acids. 

THE ROSE APPLE.— The rose apple is cultivated in the East Indies and 
all tropical countries for its fruit, which is of the size and shape of a small 
pear, rose scented and tasting like an apricot. There are several varieties. 

THE SURINAM CHERRY.— The Surinam cherry, sometimes called the 
Barhadoes cherry, is a red fruit the size of a drupe cherry and has an 
abundant sweet and agTeeable juice. 

SAPOTACEOUS FRUITS 

Sapotaceous Fruits — the sapodilla.— The sapodilla is a drupaceous 
plant of the West Indies, Central America and Cuba. It is one of the 
best tropical fruits of the order of Sapoiacece. It is a small brown or 
greenish fruit resembling in size and shape a bergamot pear. It weighs 
about two ounces, has a sweet characteristic odor and a soft core which 
contains five or six brown seeds. "A fully ripened sapodilla," says Dis- 
courtalz, "is melting and has the sweet perfume of honey, jasmine and 
lily of the valley." They are eaten raw and presented. The fruit is 
sweeter than the custard apple. It is about five inches long, covered by 
a rusty colored skin. The pulp is very agreeable. 

THE MAMMEE- SAPOTA.— The Mammee sapota is a native of the West 
Indies and South America. It contains a thick agreeable pulp having the 
33 



492 FEUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

flavor and appearance of quince marmalade. The pulp surrounds a single 
seed, one side of which is attached to the flesh, while the other side is free, 
smooth and highly polished. The fruit is about five inches long and has 
a rusty, greenish colored skin. 

THE STAR APPLE. — The star apple is a large purple or rose colored 
drupe of the N. O. Sapotacece, The interior consists of an outer purple 
portion which is fibrous and not edible. The inner portion is white and 
glutinous and divided into ten compartments, each containing a seed en- 
closed in a gelatinous pulp of characteristic flavor. 



ANACARDIACEOUS FRUITS 

Varieties of Anacardiaceous Fruits — THE mango FRUIT.— Mango fruit 
is a native of Asia, held in high esteem in tropical climates and cultivated 
in all Oriental countries. The fruit is flat or kidney shaped, reddish 
brown or like an apricot in color. It is about the size of an apple and has 
a most agreeable juice. The mango cuts like an apple but is much more 
agreeable ; the pulp has a pleasant acid taste and sweet, aromatic perfume. 
It is eaten raw, cooked in pies or tarts, in preserves, jelly and chutney. 
It is a very welcome addition to the dietary during the summer. The 
mango is held sacred in India and references to it are interwoven in 
their folklore writings. 

Mais^go Chutney. — Mango chutney is a well-known sauce imported 
from India. The mango is now successfully grown in Florida. 



EBENACEOUS FRUITS 

Varieties of Ebenaceous Fruits — the persimmon.— The persimmon or 
date plum is the fruit of the N. O. Ehenacece. The Japanese variety is 
the most highly prized, reaching a size of from two to three inches in diam- 
eter. It is the most esteemed fruit of the Japanese Empire. There are 
many varieties grown in China, Japan and India. The Japanese ripen 
persimmons artificially by placing them in casks, from eight to fifteen 
days, from which the native beer called saM has been emptied. Persim- 
mons are dried like figs and exported in large quantities from China and 
Japan. The Japanese persimmon is like a yellow plum in appearance. 
When ripened it has a soft, gelatinous pulpy flesh. The American per- 
simmon, according to Atwater, contains 14.5 per cent sugars. The fruit 
also contains both malic and tannic acids. 



THKK FRUITS 493 

LEGUMINOUS FRUITS 
Varieties of Leguminous Fruits— TliK TAMA KIND.— The tamarind is 
the fruit of the N. O. Leguminosew, It is a ptid of a leguminous tree, 
of from one to six inches long, dark brown color, a thin, brittle exte- 
rior when dry, and contains a dark, fleshy pulp which is used for both 
food and medicine. Tamarinds are preserved by placing them in jars 
with layers of sugar between them, or by pouring boiling syrup over the 
ripe fruit. They are laxative and refrigerant; an infusion is grateful to 
patients suffering from fevers and intlammation. The fruit has a sweet- 
ish, sour taste. It is said to contain more sugar than the sweetest fruit 
and more acid than the sourest. Analysis shows 85 per cent solids, 40 
per cent reducing sugar and 15 per cent acids. 

ST. JOHN'S BREAD.— St. John's bread, sometimes called locusts or 
caroh hearis, comes originally from Syria and the shores of the Mediter- 
ranean. The fruit grows on a large tree of the N. O. Leguminosece, In 
America the tree sometimes attains an enormous size, three feet in diam- 
eter and from sixty to seventy feet in height. The pods sometimes grow 
ten or twelve inches in length, having as many seeds. When ripe — after 
frost has bitten them — the seeds are surrounded by a sweet mucilaginous 
mass of honey-like substance having a pleasing acrid, piquant taste. The 
dried pod contains 50 per cent sugar. Its generic name is derived from 
John Robin, who introduced it into France about the year 1000. It is 
much prized as a food for man and beasts in the hotter countries. Its 
cultivation began in historic times. The Greeks knew and appreciated its 
food value. The pods of the honey locust are eaten raw and sold in con- 
fectioner's shops. A delightful beverage, loctist beer, is made by breaking 
up the dried pods, adding dried American persimmons and dried apples, 
placing the whole in a barrel and pouring boiling water on the mass and 
allowing it to undergo fermentation. When three or four days have 
elapsed^ a beautiful port wine colored "beer" is produced, possessing an 
alluring piquant taste with some '^kick" in it. 

PALMACEOUS FRUITS 
Varieties of Palmaceous Fruits — DATES.— Dates grow in abundance in 
the region between the Euphrates and the Nile. In Babylonian times, in 
the fifth century B.C., Herodotus mentions "the dates of Babylon," and 
Egyptian monuments contain drawings of the fruit and of the tree. The 
fruit is gro\vn extensively in all Oriental countries. The Persian Gulf 
region is the center of the date-growing industry of the world. There are 
said to be no less than 20,000,000 date-bearing palms in this territory. 



494 FRUITS, NUTS AND GAEDEN FEUITS 

There are many varieties of date trees. It is said that date trees are 
sometimes prolific for 200 years. The tree is dioecious, i.e., the male and 
female flowers, the pistillate and staminate, like those of the fig tree, 
grow on different trees and fertilization is brought about by means of 
pollen-bearing insects and currents of air. In some countries the growers 
plant one male tree to every thirty female trees. In times of war, the 
Arabs destroy the male trees in the enemy territory, in order to cause date 
famine. The fruit is gathered just before it is ripe, dried in the sun or 
in ovens, and carefully packed. Dates should be washed before eating, as 
the Arabs who gather the fruit are not a very cleanly race. The fruit 
forms an important article of food in the country where it is cultivated 
and is a considerable source of income to growers. Dates are a whole- 
some and nutritious fruit. When dried without the pits, they contain 
about 7 per cent protein, 54 per cent sugar, as levulose, dextrose and 
some sucrose, and 11 per cent of pectose and gum. It is claimed that 
half a pound of dates and a half a pint of milk will make a sufficient 
meal for a person of sedentary habits. 

Date Palm Wine. — The date palm is extensively cultivated by the 
Hindoos for the sap, from which they make palm wine or joggery wine. 
Each tree is said to yield one hundred and eighty pints of sap, twelve 
pints of which produce one pint of joggery ; four pints of joggery yield one 
pound of good brown sugar, so that from the annual sap yield about seven 
pounds of sugar is produced. The palm wine when distilled yields a 
spirit called tody. The fruit is a source of sugar, honey, spirits and vine- 
gar. The unopened fresh leaf buds are a tender succulent vegetable, 
which may be prepared and eaten like cabbage. 

COCOANUTS.— Cocoanuts are the fruit of the cocoanut palm, grown 
largely in the East and West Indies, Indo-China, China and Japan. This 
fruit is a staple food product for the inhabitants in countries where it is 
grown. Without it the Pacific Islands would be uninhabitable and the 
natives would die of hunger and thirst. The fleshy part of the fruit is 
white and tasty, nutritious and wholesome. As the fruit reaches maturity 
the flesh hardens from the circumference towards the center, and on the 
inside is the milJc which is used like cow's milk. It is a pleasant beverage, 
milky, sweet and slightly acidulous. For analysis of the component parts 
of the nut see Volume I, Chapter XIX. 

MISCELLANEOUS TREE FRUITS 

OLIVES.— Olives are mentioned in the earliest Hebrew writings as one 
of the trees of the land of Canaan. The Bible records the return of the 



TKEE FUUITS 495 

dovo briii^ring an olive branch to Noah in the Ark. Tlio olive is l)eli('vod 
to have cunio originally from Asia. It has Ixfcn naturalized in Spain, 
Italy, France, Greece, California, Central and South America, where it 
is an important source of income. The tree is a snuill gmirled evergreen, 
of which there arc numerous varieties, long leaved and short leaved. The 
finest oil is produced from the long leaved variety. The edible olive is 
picked while young and placed in lye 1 to 2 per cent for some hours, 
which removes the bitter taste; they are then soaked and washed in fresh 
water several times, pickled in brines of varying but increasing strength, 
and finally packed in sterilized brine for shipment. Ripe olives are of 
more value for food purposes; the green olives for pickles and relishes. 
The olive contains one of the chief principles of food which the average 
vegetarian diet lacks — fat — for which they are extremely valuable. Kipe 
olives are of a purplish black tint. They are v/holesome, readily digested, 
slightly laxative and highly nutritious. 

POMEGRANATE.— Pomegranate fruit is one of the earliest known in the 
history of the world. It is indigenous to Persia and is grown throughout 
tropical countries. Mention is made of it in ancient religious and myth- 
ological writings. It has been cultivated from time immemorial. It was 
known to the Greeks of Homeric times and entered into the ceremonies of 
the ancient Romans. The cultivated varieties, which are scarcely thorny, 
have coral red wax-like terminal flowers. 

The fruit is as large as an orange, with a leathery-like, yellow-tinted, 
rosy skin. Each of the many seeds is enclosed in a sweet or sub-acid, sepa- 
rate, reddish, edible pulp, surrounded by a thin membrane. The pulp 
when macerated, mixed with water and honey or sugar, makes a delicious 
cooling, acidulous beverage. The South Americans macerate the pulp and 
by a process of fermentation produce a wine called "Aguardiente," which 
is quite intoxicating. The rind is also used for tanning morocco leather. 
The expressed pomegranate juice contains 13.6 per cent sugar and 0.51 
per cent of organic acids. 

THE ALLIGATOR PEAR— The alligator pear, or avocado pear, is a 
fruit of the 'N. O. Lauracew. It is a native of Mexico and is cultivated in 
the West Indies and tropical America. It is a pear shaped fruit from 
four to six inches long, of a green or brownish color, weighing from one to 
two pounds. It is highly prized as a salad fruit. The pulp, which is of 
a yellow, buttery consistency, is dipped out with a spoon and is eaten 
Avith salt, vinegar and other condiments. It may also be prepared as a 
soup, to which it imparts an agreeable odor. The fruit is rich in fat, 
10 to 20 per cent, and has a starch and sugar content of 6.8 per cent 



496 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

MAMMEE APPLE.— The Mammee apple is grown extensively in South 
America, Cuba, West Indies, as well as in the United States, where it is 
highly esteemed. It is a large fruit of a baccate character, two to nine 
inches in diameter, weighing from eight to twenty ounces. It has an outer 
brownish yellow, leathery rind and a thinner internal rind closely cover- 
ing the flesh. The flesh of the Mammee apple is firm, bright yellow, 
with a sweet aromatic perfume, an acidulous sweetish juice in abundance, 
a peculiar piquant taste. It can be eaten raw, but is principally used for 
preserves and marmalades. 

AMPELIDACEOUS OR VINE FRUITS 

Varieties of Ampelidaceous Fruits — GRAPES.— Grape vines are found 
growing wild throughout the temperate and parts of the torrid zone of 
both hemispheres. From these the cultivated varieties of the present day 
have been propagated. The cultivation of the grape and the making of 
wine are of the most remote antiquity, as appears from the scripture his- 
tory of Noah and other Bible characters and from many passages of the 
most ancient authors, for example, Virgil and Columella. The grape was 
probably introduced into the south of France and into Italy by the Phoe- 
nicians about 600 years b.c. 

There are many varieties of grapes indigenous to America, particu- 
larly the Scuppernong, the Catawba, the Isabella, the Concord and the 
Fox grape, which are all described by the historian of Sir Walter Raleigh's 
voyages to Carolina in 1584. 

During Colonial times many attempts were made to grow European 
varieties of grapes in the United States, but the experiment was not a 
success, owing to various pests and to certain mildews which did not affect 
the hardy native vines but which infested the foreign importation. The 
European grapes have a higher sugar content than the American species 
and are better adapted for wine making, especially champagnes. They 
also keep better and make better raisins. The American table grapes, 
however, are more refreshing and make a better unfermented drink than 
the imported varieties. 

As a fruit, grapes are delicious, nourishing and fattening; in large 
quantities they are diuretic and of value in the dietetic treatment of con- 
stipation and some gastric disorders. The grape cure {see Volume II, 
Chapter XVI, on "Cures") consists of eating many pounds of grapes daily. 
The value of grapes is due especially to the large proportion of sugar. 
In certain wasting diseases care must be exercised not to eat too freely, 



AMPELIDACEOUS OR VI\K FHTMTR 497 

or diarrhea may be produced, wliith would \ms\vu t\w end. Sweet grapes, 
when they do not purge, are exceedingly valuable an a food and exert 
a curative action in bronchitis, gastric and inlestinal atony. Even in 
Bright's disease they may, with favorable climatic conditions, contribute 
to a restoration of health. 

Composition of Grapes. — Grapes contain from 12 to 26 per cent 
sugar, about 2 per cent non-nitrogenous and 0.(5 per cent nitrogenous mat- 
ter, besides gum and mucus, with salts, chiefly hydropotassic tartrate or 
"cream of tartar" phosphates, sulphates and chlorids of calcium, magne- 
sium, sodium and potassium, and traces of iron, aluminium and silica. 
The acidity of the grape is due to tartaric and malic acids, and depends 
somewhat upon the period of development and upon the seasons, whether 
it be good or bad. As ripening proceeds, the malic acid disappears. The 
sugar of grapes (see analysis. Volume I, Chapter XIX) consists of 
dextrose or glucose, 12 to 25 per cent, besides levulose or invert sugar and 
malic and tartaric acid. 

Utilization of Grapes. — Grapes are principally utilized in some one 
of the following ways: (a) for eating; (b) for making raisins; (c) for 
making grape juice; (d) for making wine; (e) for making brandy. The 
fruit is readily and safely shipped over long distances if carefully packed 
in small baskets. 

Raisixs. — Raisins are the dried fruit of many varieties of the grape. 
They are principally produced in Southern Europe, France, Spain, Italy, 
Greece, Turkey and California. They are sold under various names, as 
Muscatels, or raisins dried on the vines, which include Malaga and varie- 
ties of muscatels and Valencids, or dipped raisins, which include Lexias 
and Denias from Turkey and California raisins. The Sultana raisins are 
made from the small seedless grapes of Greece, Turkey and Persia. 

In the process of drying the genuine muscatels, ripe white Malagas 
are used. The stem is partially cut or twisted, to interfere with the circu- 
lation of the vine sap, and the fruit is allowed to hang on the vine and 
dry. The raisins are then ready to pack for shipment without further 
treatment. "Dipped" raisins are prepared in the following way: ripe 
grapes, with the stems twisted, are allowed to ha»g on the vines for a day 
to facilitate evaporation. They are then pulled and dried in the sun for 
another day, rinsed in water and dried in the sun for twenty-four hours ; 
then they are dipped in boiling potash lye, flavored with rosemary and lav- 
ender, and covered with a layer of olive oil. This treatment sterilizes the 
fruit and shortens the period for drying the grape, which is accomplished 
by exposing them to the sun with frequent turning. When dry they are 



498 FKUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

piled in heaps to "sweat.'' This softens the skins and distributes the 
moisture more evenly. 

Currants. — Currants are the dried fruit of the small black Corinth 
grape, grown in the Levant and Morea. The grapes are small, round, 
thick-skinned and seedless. They are plucked when slightly overripe, 
dried in the sun, afterwards removed from the stalks, cleaned and packed. 
Currants contain two and one-fourth per cent malic acid and six and 
seven-tenths per cent of sugar. A wine is made by fermenting the juice 
and is a very useful beverage in levers and inflammations. 

The important constituents of raisins and currants are sugars — dex- 
trose and levulose — and potassium acid tartrate in the pulp, tannin and 
fixed oil in the seeds. Raisins and currants are used largely in cooking. 
Their chief value is in the carbohydrates they contain. They are also a 
convenient food for pedestrians and travelers, who have long held them in 
high esteem. Of small compass, they are easily carried and contain much 
sustaining nutriment. In addition to their demulcent properties they pre- 
vent excessive thirst. These fruits possess the protein-sparing properties 
of carbohydrates. They are demulcent, balsamic and increase the flow of 
urine, diminishing the excretion of urea and uric acid. They slightly 
stimulate the hepatic function and promote the flow of bile. 

PASSIFLOREOUS FRUITS 

The granadilla or Passiflora edulis is the fruit of the sweet calabash or 
apple fruited granadilla. When eaten with wine and sugar, the pulp is 
agreeable. The common granadilla has a purple pulp which is also very 
agreeably pleasing to the palate. 



SMALL BUSH BERRIES (5) 

Berries consist of a mass of small seeds surrounded by a pulp which 
is often quite watery, as in the raspberry, although sometimes firm, as in 
the gooseberry. The juice of berries consists principally of sugars, pec- 
tin, mineral salts, acids and flavoring ethers which are frequently highly 
colored. The pulp is the principal portion of the berry, since the small 
seeds have no food value. Berries act as an irritant to the alimentary 
tract and are a frequent cause of constipation when consumed too freely. 
There is no great improvement in the cultivated over the wild varieties. 

Varieties of Berries — THE WHORTLEBERRY.— The whortleberry, blue- 
berry or bilberry, is found growing wild throughout the north temperate 



SMALL Jil'Sll J5ERKIES 499 

zone on bushos from one to three feet in height. There are many varieties 
of related shrubs bearing' these berries, but tliey are rarely cultivated. The 
fruits are subacid, moderately astringent, and contain nnicilage, sugar, 
niiilic and citric acids and an astringent substance which exercises a tonic 
effect. These berries grow in immenso (piantitics on waste lands all over 
the Northern United States and in Canada, where they arc gathered by 
the native berry ''pickers." The fruit bears shipping to distant cities. 
Some varieties are large and juicy and very palatable. It contains from 
7(3 to 80 per cent of water; 5 per cent sugar; some pectin and from 1 to 
1.6 per cent of malic and citric acid. 

HUCKLEBERRIES.— Huckleberries may with care be dried for winter 
use. They may also be preserved by canning. Some varieties make excel- 
lent jellies and jam. Huckleberries are also highly prized for making 
pies. The big blue huckleberry is similar in comjwsition to the whortle- 
berry; it is larger and less juicy, but not so agreeable nor wholesome. 

SERVICE BERRY.— The service berry, also known as the June berry 
or shad berry, varies in color from red to black. It grows on a medium 
size tree in the eastern United States as far south as Florida. The service 
berry is sometimes eaten raw, sometimes used in making sauces. The fruit 
is largely consumed by birds and squirrels. 

ELDERBERRIES.— Elderberries are drupe fruits of the Sambuctts 
Niger. They are chiefly used for making cordials and the "elderberry 
wine" used in adulterating port wine. The ripe berries are sometimes 
made into pies. 

BARBERRY.— The barberry, of which there are many species, grows 
wild all over the north temperate zone, in the Andes of South America, 
and along the Atlantic Coast. The shrub is cultivated chiefly for orna- 
mental purposes. It bears an elongated, red, acid berry, utilized in mak- 
ing pickles and preserves. The fruit possesses astringent properties, an 
inviting, pleasing taste, grateful and refreshing to the palate. 

BLACKBERRY.— The blackberry is borne on second year twigs which 
spring from the roots of the common bramble briars, growing luxuriantly 
in wild hedgerows. The cultivated berry is a great improvement over the 
wild variety, both in size and appearance, but not always in flavor or 
sweetness. The berries when matured are red, turning black when fully 
ripened. They are used for making pies, jams, jellies, preserves and 
wine. They are also dried for winter use. The fresh berries are canned. 

Blackberry wine is produced by the fermentation of the berry macer- 
ated w^ith sugar. Blackberry brandy is manufactured by distilling the 
wine. Blackberry cordial is the juice strained and preserved by the addi- 



500 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

tion of whiskey or brandy. All three products are of value from a dietetic 
standpoint. 

THE RASPBERRY.— The raspberry is a native of Great Britain and 
Europe. It grows on a tall, slender briar or bramble thoughout the 
northern United States from the Atlantic to the Rocky Mountains. It 
is much improved by cultivation. It has a delicate and agreeable flavor. 
The two varieties are the red and the white. They contain 0.53 per cent 
nitrogenous matter; 4 per cent sugar; 1.50 per cent other nitrogenous 
substances ; 1.38 per cent of free acid, and organic salts. They are not 
as nutritious as strawberries or blackberries. Raspberries are used in 
cooking and confectionery. Various liqueurs and cordials are made from 
the juice. The fruit is also used to make raspberry vinegar. They are 
useful in relaxed conditions of the bowels. 

THE CLOUDBERRY.— The cloudberry is a yellow raspberry, and its 
active principle is diuretic. It has a sub-acid taste somewhat like that 
of the tamarind. It grows wild on the Atlantic coast, and is cultivated 
in the interior. 

LOGANBERRIES.— Loganberries are the product of a hybridization of 
the blackberry and raspberry briar and are now cultivated. Some of the 
fruit is very fine, superior in flavor and taste to either the blackberry or 
the raspberry. The fruit is large, luscious and reddish black in color. 
This berry grows very luxuriantly in some of the Western states, more 
particularly in Montana. 

DEWBERRIES.— Dewberries grow wild on a running briar in the south- 
ern portion of the United States. They are large succulent drupes, black 
in color, and covered with a bluish bloom of dew-like appearance. The 
fruit is sweet but more acidulous than the blackberry, and possesses astrin- 
gent and tonic properties. Many species are cultivated in the United 
States. The fruit juice when fermented with sugar makes an excellent 
wine of some dietetic value. The fresh berries are much prized for pies, 
tarts, jellies and jams. 

THE ROEBUCK BERRY.— The roebuck berry is an edible fruit found 
in Great Britain, but more abundantly in Russia. It is also an important 
fruit in Norway, where it is held in high esteem. In Stockholm it is 
prized as a dainty of the rarest and most delicate kind. In Russia the 
inhabitants eat the fruit and also make a wine and a distilled spirit 
from it. 

THE GOOSEBERRY.— The gooseberry grows wild in Europe and Amer- 
ica. It has been much improved by cultivation. Some of the cultivated 



SMALL HUSir TiKlMMFS 601 

berries now grow very large. Then- .in- mnu^ varieties, differing from 
one another only in size, color and hardiness. The American variety of 
the cultivated fruit is smooth. The goosclwrry is sometimes eaten raw, 
but is more commonly used for making jam, either alone or mixed with 
other fruit. It contains very little |)rotcin and consistH largely of invert 
sugar. Its abundant pectose and acid make it valuable for many culinary 
purposes. In the process of boiling, all the cane sugar is inverted by the 
acid present, so it is found as invert sugar in the janj. G<M>8el)errie8 are 
a wholesome, agreeable fruit. They are in season when other fruits 
are scarce. 

CURRANTS.— Currants are the fruit of a small shrub tree which grows 
best in temperate climates in a strong, moist, loamy soil with a northern 
exposure or partial shade. It has been cultivated from the middle ages 
and the fruit is used for puddings, pies, wine and jelly. Currant wine 
made from the fresh berries is a refreshing drink, useful in fevers and 
inflammations. There are two varieties, red and black. The black wine 
is better than the red. 

The composition of currants includes 6.5 per cent sugars; 0.9 per cent 
of other non-nitrogenous constituents; 2.25 per cent of free acid; 4.5 per 
cent pectose, cellulose and seeds, and .75 per cent salts. The black currant 
is valuable on account of its medicinal properties. It is diaphoretic and 
soothing to inflamed mucous surfaces and quenches thirst. 

STRAWBERRIES.— The strawberry,amli^e ,most berries, is in reality a 
sycouy or receptacle, which bears the achenes, or true fruit, upon its outer 
surface. As it ripens it becomes succulent and its outer surface is beauti- 
fied with a variety of pleasing tints, varying from a scarcely perceptible 
pink to a blushing dark red. It grows wild over a large area of the semi- 
tropical regions of Europe, Asia and America. Its cultivation began ii^ 
the fifteenth century. The finest cultivated fruit today is a cross between 
the common Virginia and Chili strawberries. The plant is propagated 
by "runners," which readily take root. Some varieties are propagated by 
seeds. The plant requires careful cultivation and is usually mulched with 
straw before the buds start. Though much care has been taken to in- 
crease the size and improve the appearance of the native strawberry by 
cultivation, the aroma and flavor of the wild strawberry are superior. 
The Carolina strawberry was introduced into English gardens in 1629. 

Strawberries contain 90.4 per cent water ; 1 per cent protein ; 7.4 per 
cent sugar; 1.4 per cent pectose, and 1.4 per cent of acids, principally 
malic. The berry is highly esteemed not only for eating as a dessert, but 
for making jams and preserves. The fresh fruit is most agreeable to 



502 



FKUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 



invalids and convalescents. It is cooling, diuretic and laxative, and is 
thought to be helpful in gout and in rheumatic affections. 

CRANBERRIES.— Cranberries grow in mountainous regions, in peat 
bogs and in swampy areas in Europe and America. The fruit grows on a 
low bushy vine, some varieties near the seashore, others in uplands and 
on mountain tops. The fruit is about double the size of a currant, of a 
crimson red color, and contains a very acid juice. Analysis shows its 
composition to be as follows: 2.31 per cent free acids, principally malic 
and sulphuric, including 0.05 per cent benzoic acid. A liberal amount 
of pectose makes the cranberry of value in making tarts, jams, jelly, and 
particularly as a sauce for meats and poultry. 



HERB-LIKE FRUITS 

Varieties of Herb-like Fruits— bananas.— Bananas, of which there are 
several varieties, were known and appreciated by the ancient Greeks, 
Romans and Arabs. They are not mentioned by the Egyptians or He- 






eD/BLEPORTiON^ 




P£RC£N7>96E COA^PO* 
^/T/O/V C7A- £^0/SLE 

75.S<fo H^ref? 
.3^ P/?OT£/AI 

/.oYo c^o£ienff£» 



Fig. 44.— Composition of the Banana. (Bull. No. 293, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 

brews. The banana is believed to have had its origin in Asia, and from 
there to have been introduced into America and the East and West Indies. 
The plants are herbaceous perennials or biennials, which die down after 



IIERB-LTKE FRUITS 503 

fruitage, after which new stalks spring up from the old parent roots. The 
fruit is a herry, without an endosperm, but has a large perisperm. It is 
gathered before the fruit is ripe. The plant is a marvel of productive- 
ness ; often as many as two hundred bananas grow in one bunch. It is esti- 
mated that a greater quantity of food may Ik) pnxluced per acre from the 
growth of bananas than from wheat, potatoes or any other foodstuff. The 
banana is too bulky, however, to serve as the main constituent of a healthy 
diet. Assuming that an average banana weighs two ounces, it would re- 
quire about eighty of these to yield the amount of energj' daily needed by 
the human system and nearly double that number to supply the requisite 
amount of protein. No wonder, then, that in tropical countries where 
bananas form the principal food staple, the inhabitants become "pot bel- 
lied" from chronic abdominal distention. 

There are more than one hundred and fifty varieties of bananas, some 
red and some yellow. All are used for food. The banana is too well known 
and appreciated to need much detailed description. The pulp is soft, of 
delicious and luscious flavor, and contains a goodly portion of nitrogenous 
and carbohydrate material. They may be eaten raw, or cut in slices and 
fried in butter. The pulp is also dried and ground into a flour that is 
used in invalid foods. The flour can be made into bread upon the addi- 
tion of wheat flour. Analysis shows the banana to be deficient in fat 
and protein. The fruit is, however, a food of much value on account of 
its high carbohydrate content. 

THE PINEAPPLE.— The pineapple is indigenous to America. It grows 
well in Central America, the West Indies and Hawaii. The cultivated 
form has no seeds. In temperate climates it must be protected by sheds, 
as is done in Florida. The green fruit is not edible. It is almost caustic 
in taste and action ; but the ripe, soft, luscious, pulpy fruit forms one of 
the most fragrant and delicious desserts. The juice is very sweet and 
agreeable. The pineapple contains a proteolytic ferment capable of pep- 
tonizing albuminoids, for which reason it is used to a considerable extent 
in the preparation of various artificial foods. This proteolytic ferment 
furnishes a very suitable accompaniment to a repast as an aid to diges- 
tion. It is appropriate at the end of a hearty meal. The juice has a 
therapeutic value in bronchitis, attended by a tenacious sputum. The 
composition of the total solids in the pineapple is 14.17 per cent cane 
sugar; invert sugar, 11.00 per cent; acids, 0.60 per cent without the skin. 

The flavor and odor of the pineapple are due to the essential oils and 
ethers which are present in small quantities. Canned pineapples are pre- 
pared in Singapore, the Bahamas, Hawaii and in Florida. If carefully 



504 FEIIITS, NUTS AND GAEDEN FKUITS 

sterilized during the canning process no sugar is needed. The nutritive 
value of the fruit depends entirely upon the natural sugars contained in 
the juice and pulp. The pineapple is a valuable food. It is useful as an 
aid to digestion, owing to the presence of its proteolytic enzyme hromeliriy 
which is closely related to trypsin. This ferment converts albuminoids 
into peptonates and proteoses, and exerts its full physiological action in 
acid, alkaline or neutral media. Wiley found that the sugar content of 
pineapples was 60 per cent sucrose and 40 per cent invert sugar. 

THE PRICKLY PEAR.— The prickly pear, tuna or Indian fig, is the 
edible fruit of a cactus indigenous to Mexico and southwestern United 
States. It is much prized by the natives where it grows. The fruit is 
covered with bunches of fine spines and is of a reddish-yellow, purple 
color. The outside rind is readily removed and the pulp has a subacid 
taste suggesting that of the cucumber. It contains about 11 per cent 
sugar and small quantities of other nutrients. The Mexicans make a 
fermented spirituous beverage from it called colonche. 

NUTS 

Nuts. — Unlike the seeds of cereals, nuts are rich in protein and fat 
and are highly nutritious. Some nuts have such a high fat and protein 
content that they are of practically the same food value as meat. Bulk for 
bulk, dry nuts are among the most nutritive foods which we possess. 
Hutchison estimates that 100 grams of shelled walnuts, averaging thirty 
in number, contain as much fat as 2.75 pounds of lean beef, but 2.6 ounces 
of such beef would equal them in protein; so it would be necessary to 
consume 700 walnuts daily in order to obtain the requisite amount of pro- 
tein required by the body. 

In many countries nuts have long been used as a food ; but until recent 
years they have been regarded rather as a luxury than as a real food in the 
United States. If the prices of domestic nuts and the more expensive 
breakfast foods are compared, it will be found that nuts are not an expen- 
sive food. Our native nuts, such as hickory nuts, w^alnuts, butternuts, 
chestnuts, hazel liuts and pecan nuts, may be had for the gathering by 
anyone in the rural districts, and in the shops they may be purchased at 
reasonable prices. Professor Jaifa of the California Agricultural Ex- 
periment Station has carefully studied the value of nuts from the point 
of view of nutrition. He says if the true composition of nuts were 
more generally appreciated and their appetizing qualities and food value 
better understood, they would lose their reputation for being indigestible. 



NUTS 505 

Digestion of Nuts. — Nuts contain a fibrous or celiiilar Htronia snrroiind- 
ing ilie oily meat or kernel (protein, fat and Htarch eelln;, all enclosed in 
a hard shell. The greater portion of cellulose consumed leaves the body 
unchanged; therefore the nut requires the most thorough and careful mas- 
tication in order that the digestive secretions may readily act upon the 
really nutritious portion of the nut. Since nuts must pass through the 
pylorus before they can be digested, a considerable proportion of protein 
and fat may be lost from nonabsorption, unless they are thoroughly masti- 
cated. The fact that nuts are such a concentrated food, with only 3 to 5 
per cent water, as compared with meat, which has 50 to 70 per cent water, 
may serve to explain their indigestibility. No doubt, if proper attention 
were directed to this point and the proper use of nuts as a food were forci- 
bly emphasized, less \infavorable comment would be heard in regard to 
them. We should regard nuts as a food, just as we look upon sugar as a 
food, and if we used them as such, in proper quantities and at the right 
time, they would cause no discomfort. 

Although nuts alone do not form a well balanced diet, there are numer- 
ous faddists who endeavor to live upon them. Even if they did furnish 
an ideal well balanced diet, the amount of nuts in the world is insufficient 
to supply any large proportion of mankind with the quantity necessary for 
their support. It is true that a diet composed exclusively of fruits and 
nuts contains a sufficiency of the component nutrients in the right propor- 
tion to support life, but experience proves that the protein from a mixed 
diet is more economically utilized. On this account persons who use nuts 
in the place of meat should not depend on them alone for a food supply, 
but should at the same time consume more bulky foods with a low protein 
and fat content. 

Because they are hard to digest, causing indigestion, dyspepsia, heart- 
burn, constipation and other annoying symptoms, many people cannot eat 
nuts in any form. Nuts should not be eaten by persons with feeble di- 
gestive power, nor by those subject to constipation or chronic diarrhea. 
They are when well masticated suitable foods for the corpulent and for 
those suffering from Bright's disease and diabetes. In fact diabetics act- 
ing under their physicians' advice may partake very freely of walnuts, 
almonds, Brazil nuts, butternuts, hickory nuts and pignolia nuts. 

Nuts are, for the most part, heat producing foods, due to their large 
fat content, and are tissue or energy- builders by virtue of their contained 
protein. It should be remembered that nuts are prone to become rancid 
in a few months, and their palatability and value is thereby diminished. 
Various fats and oils are manufactured from nuts (see Chapter XIV, Fats 



506 FRUITS, JSrUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

and Oils). These are quite as easy to digest as butter, and some of them 
are used as shortening and are found to be quite economical. 

Increased Appreciation of Food Value of Nuts. — From available statis- 
tics it appears that in 1905 the total quantity of nuts of various kinds, 
shelled and unshelled, imported into the United States was, in round num- 
bers, 86,238,000 pounds. In the same year the California almond crop 
was 4,200,000 pounds; the walnut crop was 12,800,000 pounds, and the 
peanut yield in three Southern states was 225,000,000 pounds. These fig- 
ures augur well for a better appreciation of nuts as a food in our country. 
The increased demand for nuts is due in the main to two causes, namely, 
a better appreciation of their appetizing qualities and the numerous ways 
in which they form a palatable addition to the diet of the average family, 
and secondly, to their use by the vegetarians and persons of similar be- 
lief, who use nuts, and more particularly the peanut, as a substitute for 
meat and other nitrogenous and fatty foods — a group small in proportion 
to the total population, but still fairly large numerically. 

Varieties of Nuts — ACORNS.— Acorns, the fruit of various species of 
oak, Quercus, consist of a single seeded oval nut in a fixed cap or cup. 
They were formerly much used as a human food; now, although in this 
country they are chiefly used to fatten swine, they are still consumed as 
food in breadmaking in some parts of the world. They contain a large 
percentage of carbohydrate and about 14 per cent of extractive matter, 
including tannin and a bitter principle. In Turkey acorns are buried in 
the ground, during which time they undergo various changes. It is 
thought that some enzyme is formed while undergrovind, which causes the 
bitterness to disappear. When taken from the earth they are sweated, 
dried and ground into a fine meal to which sugar and spices are added. A 
beverage called roccabout is made from this mixture for the ladies in the 
harem. 

ALMONDS.— Almonds, the fruit of the Amygdalis communis, are culti- 
vated throughout the countries of the Mediterranean basin, Persia and 
Palestine and other oriental lands. The almond also flourishes in Cali- 
fornia and moderately in Florida (6). There are two varieties, the hitter 
and sweet. Of the sweet almonds the Jordan almond is the best in quality. 
Its shell is thick and hard, long and narrow ; the kernel is flat, rather tough 
but sweet and covered with a cinnamon-colored cuticle. The almond 
contains a large percentage of nitrogenous matter and is a noteworthy 
form of concentrated food. "No man," it has been said, "need starve 
on a journey when he can fill his waistcoat pocket with almonds." 

Bitter Almonds. — Bitter almonds (7) are grown chiefly in Sicily, 



NUTS 507 

^loroeco and Barbary. The pit of the hitter almond, like that of the peach 
and apricot, contains a ghicosid, aniygdalin. The kenielH are shorter than 
the sweet variety and have a bitter taste. When f;ronnd to a i)owder and 
made into a paste witli water, they have a characteristic odor. This odor 
is duo to the hydrolization of the glucosid, amygdalin (C^oHjjtNO,!), 
under the influence of an enzyme, whereby oil of bitter almonds is pro- 
duced. The bitter ahnond, while not poisonous when fresh, has a most 
diaagreeablo odor, and this, in addition to the fact that one of the products 
of decomposition is hydrocyanic acid, makes it undesirable as a food. 

Oreen almonds are the young sweet almonds before the shell is formed. 
They are preserved in sugar, like green apricots. The uses of almonds 
need not be dwelt upon. They are eaten as nuts, used for culinary pur- 
poses, ground into flour and made into almond paste cakes, biscuits, bread, 
marzipan and various other confections. 

Almonds contain no starch, the carbohydrate consisting entirely of 
sugar, gum and flbrocellulose. The absence of starch makes them suitable 
for the diabetic. The fat content is about 50 per cent and is a bland oil 
consisting mainly of olein, with a slight amount of palmitin and stearin. 
Almond oil is of the same nutritive value as olive oil, and much more 
agreeable to the taste. 

THE BEECHNUT.— The beechnut is very abundant in some localities. 
It consists of small triangular seeds, which have long been known as nutri- 
tious foods. The nuts are small and have an agreeable taste, but there is 
so little meat in the shell that the energy expended in chewing them is 
scarcely repaid. They furnish food for hogs, squirrels and birds. They 
are sometimes consumed by man for food and may be eaten with safety 
in small quantities. If consumed in excessive quantities they are said to 
cause giddiness, delirium and convulsions, as the result of either indiges- 
tion or of some noxious principle contained in them. In Silesia the oil is 
expressed and used as a substitute for butter. 

BRAZIL NUTS.— The Brazil nut, known also as the cream nut, a native 
of Para, Brazil, is now extensively cultivated in Brazil and Guiana. The 
nut consists of a large oval or round pericarp of thick wood, five cr 
six inches in diameter, divided into four compartments, each of which en- 
closes from six to eight nuts. Like most other nuts they contain a sort of 
vegetable milk, a considerable amount of nitrogenous material, 66 per cent 
of fat, a little sugar and 17 per cent protein. The mineral content com- 
prises 1.35 per cent phosphoric acid, 2.35 per cent of silica, lime and 
potash. 

34 



508 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

BREAD NUTS.— Bread nuts, the fruit of the Brosimum alicastrum, are 
eaten roasted or boiled and are said to be superior to chestnuts both in 
taste and as a food, being agreeably flavored, easy of digestion and very 
wholesome. 

BUTTER NUTS.— The butter nut, closely related to the walnut, is a 
native of South America, but is also cultivated in the West Indies. The 
nuts have a fine bland flavor, the kernel is soft, white and fleshy, and as 
mild as a sweet almond. 

CASHEW NUT.— Cashew nut is the fruit of the Anacardium occiden- 
tale, sometimes called Maranon fruit. The cashew nut is a native of the 
West Indies. The seed is enclosed in a grayish brown cellular coat that 
contains an essential oil. If applied to the skin, this oil produces a blister. 
The ripe fruit and nut are eaten in Brazil and the fermented juice is used 
to make a wine, called ''kajr." 

CANDLE NUT.— The candle nut of the tropics is very oily and only 
after it has been stored for some time and is thoroughly dried, is it edible. 
If eaten before it is thoroughly dried, the croton oil-like substance which 
it contains is liable to produce serious illness. 

CHESTNUTS.— Chestnuts are the fruit of Castanea deniata, which grows 
wild in the forests of continental Europe. It is not known whether the 
tree is indigenous to Europe or not. The Romans distinguished eight 
varieties of chestnuts. It grows readily in the eastern part of the United 
States. The lumbermen have almost devastated the forests of the trees so 
that few of the original trees remain. The trees grow to an enormous 
height and are valuable for lumber. The chestnut forms a wholesome 
form of concentrated nourishment which is highly esteemed by the in- 
habitants of many countries, notably those of southern Europe. They are 
the most important nuts as a source of food, because they contain a large 
proportion of carbohydrates (starch). They are eaten steamed, boiled, 
roasted and raw. The French make a dish called galette, composed of 
chestnut meal, butter, eggs and salt, which is a more satisfactory food than 
wheat bread and contains the elements of a perfect food in proper pro- 
portions. The horse chestnut is only fit for food for the lower animals. 

THE CHINQUAPIN.— The chinquapin is a dwarf chestnut of the United 
States. The tree is usuallv found in clusters or bunches ranffine: from six 
to ten feet in height, the diameter about three inches. The nut develops 
in a burr very much like the chestnut burr, enclosing a single nut about 
half the size of a chestnut. The outer hull has a polished black surface; 
the kernel is white and when seasoned is very much sweeter than the 
chestnut. 



NUTS 509 

COCOANUTS.— Cocoanuts are the fruit of the Cocoa Nucifera, which 
is grown hirgely in the East and West Indies. The meat of the nut is 
scraped and eaten with rice curries. Its composition and other uses have 
been discussed on page 494, to which the reader is referred. 

FILBERTS.— Filberts are the fruit of the Corylua tubulosu, of which 
there are both wild and cultivated varieties in most European countries. 
The name filbert is a corruption of ''full beard" and should be applied 
only to those varieties in which llie husk is fringed and extends beyond 
the kernel. The nut is of fine flavor, rather long pointed. It is a superior 
dessert nut, but little inferior to the almond. 

GROUND NUTS.— Ground nuts are the fruit of Arachis hypogea, a 
tuberous root growing in warm countries, sometimes called "earth chest- 
nut." The nuts grow undergi'ound and are about the size of a hazel nut. 
When digged and dried they are very sweet and of excellent flavor. They 
form a very nutritious food {see also ''Roots and Tulxjrs," Volume I, 
Chapter XIII). 

HAZEL NUTS.— Hazel nuts are the fruit of the Corylus aveUana, which 
is cultivated in the temperate regions of the earth, especially in the Asiatic 
countries, around the Black Sea. Large quantities are exported as filberts 
from Spain. There are many species. One in particular, called the coh 
nut, is broad and short but not of the best quality. Dried hazel nut meal 
contains 65 per cent oil, which is known commercially as "nut oil." 

HICKORY NUTS.— Hickory nuts are the finest wild nuts which grow 
in the United States. These nuts are the most highly esteemed nuts of 
N'orth America, especially the scaly hark varieties, which are very sweet 
and highly nutritious. They contain a large proportion of fat and should 
be eaten in the winter following their growth. 

LIGHT NUTS.— Li-chi nuts are the so-called Chinese nuts. In the 
strict botanical sense tliey are not nuts, but fruit protected by a nut 
shell. They grow extensively in China, but are about the size of a date 
and are covered with a scaly hard rind, red on one side, green on the other. 
They contain a delicious pulp of a sweetish subacid taste and raisin-like 
flavor. The Chinese dry them like prunes for winter use. A few are im- 
ported to America. 

PARADISE NLTTS.— The paradise nut, grown on the Lecyihis usitaia, re- 
sembles the Brazil nut. It has a rough shell, is about the same size, but 
is not so much curved. It is of finer quality and more delicate texture 
than the Brazil nut, but as yet has not become common in the markets of 
the United States. 



510 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

PEANUTS.— The peanut, the fruit of the Arachis hypogea, is a legu- 
minous pod and not a nut, strictly speaking, but a legume.^ This nut is 
known under various names, groundnut, pindar and gooher. It appears 
to be of tropical American origin. Although grown for a long time in the 
United States, it did not become popular until 1870. They are grown 
extensively in Virginia, Tennessee and the Carolinas. 

The peanut plant grows from the peanut and produces a more or less 
trailing vine, which has this peculiarity; as the blossom withers, the spike 
of the ovary pushes into the ground so that the pod develops and the nut 
is matured under the ground. The annual nut crop is something over 
4,000,000 bushels, 75 per cent of which are consumed as roasted peanuts. 
These are eaten as an adventitious or extra food, but their digestibility 
and nutritive qualities deserve better recognition. They are rich in oil 
and protein and make a concentrated ration (see analysis, Volume I, 
Chapter XIX). 

Prepared peanut confectionery, "salted" peanuts, "peanut brittle," are 
becoming popular. There are various peanut products on the market, in- 
cluding roasted peanuts, salted peanuts, peanut butter, peanut meal and 
peanut oil. The last is a fixed oil having a sweet taste and is said to be 
equal to olive oil (see "Fats and Oils," Volume I, Chapter XIV). 

PECAN NUT.— The pecan nut, the fruit of Hicoria pecan, is indigenous 
to the United States. Pecan nuts are highly esteemed and are grown 
largely in the southern states for American markets. Some of the choice 
varieties of pecan have originated in southern Indiana, northern Kentucky 
and southern Virginia and are most successfully grown in these localities. 
The nut grows on a tree somewhat similar to the hickory tree, but not 
nearly so large or so tall. The nut is highly valued and commands a good 
price. Nut cracking factories have been located in pecan growing dis- 
tricts. The kernel is aromatic and resembles the hazel nut in this quality. 
Its composition is water, ,3 per cent; protein, 11 per cent; fat, 71.2 per 
cent; starch and sugar, 13.3 per cent, and ash, 5 per cent. 

PINE NUTS.-Pignolia nuts, the fruit of various species of the pine 
tree, are edible and are consumed largely for food. This nut grows in the 
pine cone and is shaped somewhat like a bean. It is enclosed within a 
thin shell of a brownish color. The meat of the pine nut is white and of 
a rich, delicate flavor without any suggestion of a resinous nature. On 
analysis pine nuts show 14 per cent protein; 62 per cent fat; 17 per cent 

, Farmers' Bulletins, Nos. 121, 332, 356, of the United States Department of Agriculture. 



NUTS 



511 



carbohydrates. They are grown extensively in lower California and 

throughout the Pacific states. 

PIsrAriliO NUTS.— Pistachio nuts are the seeds of the J^i.starhio rira, 
growing wild and extensively in Syria. The nut is also found in France, 
Spain, Italy and Sicily and to a less extent in Florida and the southern 
States of America. The fruit is alx)ut the size of an almond, convex on 
one side and concave on the other. It is of the drupe family, grows in 
clusters and has a smooth stone which is easily separated into two halves 
at maturity. The pulp which surrounds the nut is crimson colored and 
tender. The kernel is of a greenish color with a white pellicle. It has a 
sweet, agreeable flavor and an aroma resembling that of almonds. The 
pistachio nut is highly prized on account of its greenish color, since usable 
green pigments are rare in the vegetable world, and for its pleasant flavor. 
Pistachio nuts are largely used in confectionery and for flavoring ice 
creams and various dishes for the table. 

SAPUCAIA NUTS.— Sapucaia nuts grow in Brazil. The seeds of Lecy- 
tJiis aUaria are allied to Brazil nuts. The fruit consists of a capsule sev- 
eral inches in diameter. When it is ripe the seeds fall out. The seeds are 
nuts of 1^2 to 2 inches, slightly curved and grooved, a light brown color 
and in shape somewhat like a small cucumber. The shell is soft, the in- 
terior mild yellow in color, with a flavor of cream or custard. Sapucaia 
nuts are eaten raw or roasted. They contain no starch or sugar and are 
therefore a valuable food for diabetics. 



PfiOT£/N /66 <J6^ 

FAT 634"^- 

STARCH.SUGAR.ETC /J5<JbN 

CPUD£nBER 26%- 

ASH /4<^^\^\ 




107 <56 ffROTEiN 

7/3 <>b STAflCH.SUGAR.eTC 
.27 <% C/?UD£ri3£R 
'22 «» ASM 



Fig. 45.— Composition of the Walnut. (Bull. No. 293, U. S. Dept. Agric.) 



THE WALNUT.— The w^alnut(8) is the fruit of the various species of 
Juglan. The black walnut tree grows wild in the forests of the North 
American continent.. The nuts are edible. The English walnut has been 
cultivated in England for centuries and is supposed to have originally 
come from Persia. More recently English walnuts have been successfully 
grown in California. The walnut is so well known in all countries that it 
is unnecessary to describe it. It contains about 2^ per cent water; 27 
per cent protein; 56 per cent fat; 12 per cent carbohydrates, and about 
3 per cent of cellulose and ash. Atwater found upon analysis that the 



512 FEUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

ash of walnut kernels had the following composition: CaO, 5.6; MgO, 
16.6; NagO, 1.0; KgO, 12.7; MnOg, 0.3; Fe203 and AI2O3, 3.2; P2O5, 
57.8; SO3, 1.3; SiOg, 0.7, and CI, 0.7 per cent. 



GARDEN FRUITS 

This class of fruits is raised from seed which is sown annually. The 
plants are generally vines, and the fruit ripens on the surface earth. All 
of this class of vegetable fruits are grown for immediate use, with the 
exception of the pumpkin, which may be kept for months. 

Most of the garden fruits come under the order of cucurhitacece, which 
include the cucumber, vegetable marrow, pumpkin, squash and various 
other gourds. According to Goff, there are more than fifty varieties of 
pumpkin, squash and vegetable marrow. The fruits of the cucurbital or 
gourd family contain very little nutriment of any moment. Atwater 
has found that the cucumber contains a protein content of only 0.8 per 
cent, of which but 0.4 per cent was albuminoid; in squash the nitrogenous 
matter was but 0.6 per cent, including 0.5 per cent protein. The carbo- 
hydrates are starch and sugar; the free acid is only 0.2 per cent. These 
fruits, while of no value as a food product, are useful mainly to break the 
monotony of the dietary. 

Varieties of Garden Fruits — THE CITRON.— The citron, a variety of 
Citrus vulgaris^ a native of tropical countries, is really a small variety of 
watermelon which has a very thick rind, grows nearly solid and has an in- 
sipid taste. The seeds are black and the flesh of the citron is a light cream 
yellow and not edible raw. It is used for making preserves and candied 
confections similar to that of the genuine citron (see page 485). 

CUCUMBER.— Cucumber, the fruit of the Cucumis sativa, is one of a 
number of the gourd family which is indigenous to southern India and 
grows luxuriously in most of the warm climates of the world. In fact few 
garden plants have been known longer to man than the cucumber, if we 
are to believe De Candolle, who has proven its cultivation for the past 
four thousand years. This melon fruit came into general use in England 
about the beginning of the seventeenth century. In Egypt the cucumber 
is cx)oked and served in various ways and forms quite an addition to the 
diet. In the United States and other countries the cucumber is gathered 
while immature and used for pickling and peeled and sliced for salads. 
The cucumber contains about 96 per cent water and is hardly worth while 
from the viewpoint of food value. 



GAKDExV FRUITS 613 

The Gherkin. — Gherkin is a fruit of the cucumber family used 
largely for pickling. This fruit is covered with prickers, which sting the 
fingers when pulling the fruit from the vine. It is a short, thick fruit, 
while the cucumber is oblong. The gherkin is higlily prized for pickles. 

EGGPLANT.— Eggplant, the fruit of tiolanum meloiujena, is a native of 
the East Indies, but is also grown in Europe, America and the West In- 
dies. The fruit is a large, egg-shaped, melon-like fruit, about the size of 
a cocoanut, sometimes white but more generally of a purple color. Ii 
grows on a bush-like vine. The eggplant is eaten raw like a tomato, 
cut into slices, or it may be broiled or fried. 

MELONS.— Melons are the fruit of varieties of Cucumts melo, which 
have 'long been cultivated in Eastern countries, probably for more than 
2,0(»0 years. According to De Candolle, melon culture dates back to the 
beginning of the eighth century. A study of the origin of melons indicates 
that they were found originally in India and Africa. The Indian varie- 
ties produce a fruit which is sweet, insipid or slightly acid, its surface 
striped or all of one color. The African type grows wild in Guinea. The 
odor is that of any fresh melon. 

The Muskmelon. — The muskmelon, grown originally in India and 
Behichistan before the Christian era, is a yellowish green oval fruit, with 
a highly flavored sweet pulp. The sub-varieties include: (a) citron musk- 
melon; (h) cantaloupe muskmelon ; (c) nutmeg muskmelon, and {d) pine- 
apple muskmelon, so called from their various physical characters. The 
casaba or winter muskmelon has a faintly yellow, delicate pulp of sweetish 
taste, somewhat resembling that of a ripe cucumber. 

The Rockyford cantaloupe, originally grown under irrigation at Rocky- 
ford, Colorado, is noted for its delicious taste and odor. It is now grown 
from seed all over the southern states. The Shamman is a fruit similar to 
the muskmelon and is said to be the finest fruit grown in Egypt. Pome- 
granate, Dudaim or Queen Anne melon is another variety of muskmelon, 
a native of Persia. It has a variegated color, green and orange, becoming 
yellowish when fully ripe. It has an insipid pulp, is inedible, but has a 
most fragrant vinous musk-like odor. 

Watermelox. — Watermelon, the fruit of the Citndlus vulgaris, a 
native of tropical Africa, was extensively cultivated by the ancient Eg\\y- 
tians, whence it spread into Asia. It was found, cultivated by the Amer- 
ican Indians, by Raleigh when he discovered Roanoke Island in 1584. 
The watermelon is a smooth, round, elongated fruit of green color, having 
a hard green rind which encloses a rose colored pulp of a rich, delicious 
flavor, and an abundance of watery juice of an inviting sweetish taste for 



514 FRUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS 

which it is highly prized. This fruit comprises a very important part of 
the food of the natives of Egypt during the hot season. It is much esteemed 
in India and in America from Chili to Canada. This fruit is cultivated in 
nearly all tropical and temperate countries and is very popular with all 
classes of society. It is delicious served icy cold on a hot summer's day. 
Its qualities are said to he improved by cutting a hole in the rind and add- 
ing a bottle of champagne. It is a valuable commercial crop in the south- 
ern states and immense quantities are shipped north during the summer 
months. 

THE PUMPKIN.— The pumpkin is the fruit of the Cucurhita pepo. Ac- 
cording to Goif, there are fifty-five varieties of pumpkin, squash and vege- 
table marrow. He classifies them into: (a) pumpkins and vegetable' mar- 
row; (h) summer and winter squash, and (c) sweet potato pumpkin and 
cashews. The pumpkin was found growing in the Indians' cornfields 
when our forefathers came to this country. Although its handsome ex- 
terior belied its food and fuel value, nevertheless it has become a popular 
garden vegetable, and the taste cultivated through necessity at first, has 
been handed down through generations, until it has become an established 
favorite for pies and custards. 

The pumpkin is usually round, occasionally oblong, weighs from ten 
to two hundred pounds and is used in a variety of edible dishes. It may 
be cut up -and used in soups, made into pies, or the ripe pumpkin having 
had the seeds scooped out through an opening made in one end, may be 
filled with sliced apples, sugar and spices and cooked whole. The pumpkin 
is highly prized in the New England States for pies and custards. To 
make the best pies and custards the pumpkin should be cut into long, 
large slices and baked, then scooped from the rind and sugar and spices 
added, together with rich milk or cream mixed into a batter. 

SQUASH.— Squash, the fruit of the Cucurhita melopepo, sometimes 
called cymling or summer squash, is thought to be a variety of the common 
gourd from which the pumpkin also appears to have been derived. Squash 
is extensively grown in America, the vegetable is flat with prominent an- 
gles or ribs at the sides. As a nutrient vegetable the squash amounts to 
little. It contains only 9 per cent of nutritive material, while the nutri- 
tive material of the pumpkin is 5 per cent. 

VEGETABLE MARROW.— Vegetable marrow, the fruit of the Cucurhita 
ovifera, is closely akin to the squash. It is more cultivated in England as 
a garden vegetable than in the United States. One variety known as cus- 
tard marrow is a flattened fruit with scalloped edges and is sweeter than 
the true marrow. The fruit is eaten when quite young. Both squash and 



GAICDK.N FKLITS 515 

marrow are boiled, seasoned witli butter, salt and j)ej)i)cr and used as a 

vegetable. 

Preservation of Fruits. l)i/ Cold Storage 

The preservation of ripe fruits by cold storage is a process somewhat 
similar to that for the preservation of meats, tish, game, eggs and l)utter, 
etc. It should not be forgotten that the life pnxiesses go on, although 
slowly, in fruit, even at a low temperature. Tlie fungi and bacteria are 
always ready to produce decay and their action is only retarded by a low 
temperature. The keeping (puilities of ripe fruits in cold storage depend 
upon their ripeness, their soundness and their freedom from bruises. The 
modern ccM storage warehouse has its ice plant so arranged that cold brine 
can be circulated in pipes through the rooms in which the fruit is stored. 
The temperature may thus be kept at 32° F. or even below, and can Ik* 
positively controlled. For some varieties of apples a lower temperature 
is required than for others. It has been learned from experience that 
there is a special temperature most satisfactory for keeping each variety 
of fruits. Fruits as well as other produce kept in cold storage for a long 
time deteriorate or "go down" very quickly when removed frr)m tlie ware- 
house. This is not the case with fruits which have been stored in cellars, 
in caves or in "hills" at the temperature of the outside air. Fruit stored 
in this manner does not deteriorate, when removed to rooms of ordinary 
temperature, nearly so rapidly as that which has been in cold storage. 

REFERENCES 

In the preparation of this section, the author has freely consulted and 
drawn largely from the following published works: Tibbies' "Foods, Their 
Origin, Manufacture and Composition"; Bailey's '^Principles of Fruit 
Growing" ; "Source, Chemistry and Origin of Food Products." 

1. Bailey. Principles of Fruit Growing. 

2. Leach. Analysis of Fruits, 3rd ed., p. 566. 

3. ScHiMMEL. Report, October, 1902. 

4. TiBBLES. Origin and Manufacture of Foods. 

5. . Ihid. 

6. Wiley, H. W. Foods and Their Adulteration. 

7. Jaffa. ISTuts and Their Uses as Food, U. S. Dept. Agric, Farmers' 

Bull. 332. 

8. McClenahat^. Development of Fat in the Black Walnut, J. Amer. 

Chem. Soc, 1913, vol. xxxv, pp. 485-493. 



51(5 FKUITS, NUTS AND GARDEN FRUITS . 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Fruits 

Bailey. Biochemical and Bacteriological Studies on the Banana, J. 

Am. Chem. Soc, 1912, vol. xxxiv, pp. 1706-1730. 
Beythien. Standard for Marmalades, Fruit Juices, and Other Fruit 

Preserves, Report of Conference of German Food Chemists and 

Representatives of Manufacturers, Ztschr. f. Untersuch. d. 

Nahrungs. u. Genussmittel, 1909, vol. xviii, pp. 54-78. 
Bioletti. Olive Cultivation, Oil-Making, Pickling, Calif. Agric. Ex- 

per. Sta., Report for the years 1898-1901, part ii, pp. 285-304, 

1902. 
Browne. A Chemical Study of the Apple and Its Products, Penn. 

Dept. Agric, Bull. 58; and J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1901, vol. 

xxiii, pp. 869-884. 
Chase, Tolman and Munson. Chemical Composition of Some Trop- 
ical Fruits and Their Products, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bur. of 

Chem., 1904, Bull. 87. 
Funk. The Nitrogenous Constituents of Lime Juice, Biochem. J., 1913, 

vol. vii, pp. 81-86. 
Gore. Composition of the Scuppernong, Concord and Catawba Grape 

Juices, J. Indust. & Engin. Chem., 1909, vol. i, pp. 436-441. 
Jaffe. Nutrition Investigations Among Fruitarians, U. S. Dept. 

Agric, Office of Exper. Sta., 1901, Bull. 107. 
Kearney. Date Varieties and Date Culture in Tunis, U. S. Dept. 

Agric, Bur. of Plant Industry, 1906, Bull. 92. 
Langworthy. Raisins, Figs and Other Dried Fruits and Their Use, 

U. S. Dept. Agric, Yearbook for 1912, pp. 505-522; re- 
printed at Yearbook Separate, 1913, p. 610. 
. Use of Fruit as Food, U. S. Dept. Agric, 1907, Farm. Bull. 

293. 
MuNsoN, Tolman and Howard. Fruits and Fruit Products; Chemical 

and Microscopical Examination, U. S. Dept. Agric, Bur. 

Chem., 1905, Bull. 66. 
Van Slyke. Home-made Cider Vinegar, N. Y. Agric. Exper. Sta., 

1905, Bull. 258. 



BIBLIOGKArilV 517 



Nut8 



Beattie. The Peanut, U. S. Dept. Agric, 1911, Farm. Bull. 431. 

Jaffa. Nuts and Their Uses as Food, U. S. Dept. Agric, 1908, Farm. 
Bull. 332. 

McClenahan. The Development of Fat in the Black Walnut, J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc, 1013, vol. xxxv, pp. 485-493. 

YouNO. A Stndy of Nuts with Spocial Keference to Microscopic Iden- 
tification, U. S. Dept. A^rric, Bur. Chem., 1912, \U\\\. HiO. 



CHAPTER XVI 



WATERS, BEVERAGES, MALT LIQUORS, STIMULANTS, 
WINES, CIDERS AND VINEGARS 

Waters: Classification of Waters—Potable and Table Waters; Drinking 
of Water at Meals. 

Beverages: Varieties of Beverages— Tea, Coffee. Cocoa, Chocolate, Kola, 
Guarana, Coca; Nutritive Value of Beverages; Deleterious Effects 
of the Use of Beverages. 

Malt Liquors: Preparation of Malt Liquors; Composition of Malt 
Liquors; Action of Malt Liquors on Digestion; Low Alcoholic Bev- 
erages; Herb Beers. 

Stimulants : Consideration of Effects of Alcohol on the Body ; Varieties of 
Alcoholic Drinks — Whiskey, Brandy, Gin, Liqueurs; Conclusions as 
to the Use of Alcohol. 

Wine: Preparation of Wine; Varieties of Wines; Still, Sparkling, Natu- 
ral Wines, etc.; Effect of Wines on Digestion; Wine as Source of 
Nutriment; Use of Wines. 

Vinegars: Cider and Perry. 

WATERS 

Man can live for weeks without food, but he can abstain from water 
but a few days. In the human organism (60 per cent of which is water) 
water is essential to digestion, assimilation, metabolism and reproduction. 
In fact no vital process in the body occurs in the absence of water. 

Water is an absolute necessity as a solvent. It is constantly being 
eliminated by the skin, the lungs and the kidneys. This loss must be re- 
placed in order to maintain the functions of the body. Fortunately water 
is the chief constituent of all beverages and enters largely into the compo- 
sition of solid foods, so that it is an easy matter for man to follow normal 
inclinations in quenching his thirst. 

Physicians have for years encouraged the habit of drinking water. 
However, the question whether it is wise to drink water at meal time or 
not, is still a matter of discussion. 

"Though many persons are accustomed to drink considerable quantities 
of water at meal time with no apparent ill effect, the statement has been 

519 



520 WATEKS 

and still continues to be made that water drunk with meals is injurious. 
This assertion rests solely on a priori reasoning and not on experiment, 
but is commonly believed by the general public and by many of the med- 
ical profession today." It is commonly stated that water should never 
be drunk with meals, but an hour after the meal has been eaten; that 
water drunk while eating "artificially moistens the food, thus hindering 
the normal and healthful flow of saliva and the other digestive juices; 
that it dilutes the various juices to an abnormal extent, and that it washes 
the food elements through the stomach and into the intestines before they 
have had time to become thoroughly liquefied and digested. The effects 
of this upon the welfare of the v.^hole organism can only be described as 
direful." There is no proof that such effects follow the drinking of water 
with meals. On the contrary, certain experiments show that these effects 
do not follow. 

Pavlov (1) proved that water acts as an excitant of the pancreatic 
juice. "When 150 c.c. of water is introduced into the stomach of a dog, 
the pancreas begins to secrete or its flow increases within a few minutes 
after the water has entered the stomach. Since this amount of water is 
insufficient to excite the flow of gastric juice, the secretion of pancreatic 
juice is not secondary to a secretion of the gastric juice, but is a direct 
result of the presence of water in the stomach. 

"In dogs with pancreatic fistulse, it has been shown that following 
chemical and psychical stimuli, there is a parallelism between the secretion 
of gastric juice and pancreatic juice. All kinds of acids are powerful ex- 
citants of pancreatic secretion. Large amounts of acid chyme pouring 
into the small intestine cause increased pancreatic secretion with increased 
flow of pancreatic juice" {see Volume I, Chapters YI-VII). It has been 
shown that the biliary secretion is also increased, thus augmenting the 
digestive processes. "Thus the increased acidity of the gastric contents 
resulting from the stimulating action of water causes a far more active 
digestive juice to be poured out upon the chyme when it reaches the intes- 
tine. Further, Hawk has shown that increased pancreatic activity follows 
water drinking with meals, the index being the output of fecal amylase." 

It has been taught, in the past, that free consumption of water during 
meals is apt to retard digestion by diluting gastric juice. This statement 
is not well grounded, and has led to a tendency on the part of the laity 
to use an insufficient amount of water and other liquids with the daily 
diet Water is itself a slight though unimportant excitant of gastric secre- 
tion. Experiments by Eleischer have shown that even in quantities of 
one pint it does not affect the rapidity of digestion. Even two pints pro- 



CLASSIFICATION OF VVATFKS 521 

duce slifijlit slowing, while it re<iuiree three pints to produce any niarketi 
efi'eet. Jvecent investigations sooni to indicate that water and other l)ever- 
ages taken in quite large quantities with the food tend to assist digestion 
rather than retard it. Water should never be drunk to wash down the 
food. A glass of water before meals Hushes out the debris of the last meal 
from the stomach, removes the mucus and tones up the gastric mucous 
membrane. Taken three hours after meals it assists the final stages of 
digestion, dilutes acidity and sometimes facilitates the eructation of gas. 

In Chapter X we studied the physiological value of water, its absorp- 
tion, its diuretic and diaphoretic actions and its various uses. In this 
chapter we will take up the classification of waters, the various varieties 
of mineral waters and their therapeutic uses. 

Classification of Waters. — Waters are classified as hard or soft, accord- 
ing to the amount of mineral matter which they contain. Kain water, the 
purest form of natural water, is soft. Hard water contains considerable 
calcium and magnesium salts. If these salts are in the form of carbonates, 
the water is referred to as "temporarily hard" ; if in the form of sul- 
phates, the water is "permanently hard." The magnesium present in 
"temporarily hard" water can be precipitated by boiling, which will leave 
an incrustation on the walls of the vessel. Water which has a particu- 
larly high content of this mineral substance is not satisfactory for some 
culinary purposes. For making tea, however, a soft water is preferable. 
For laundry purposes, on the other hand, hard water is very unsatisfac- 
tory, as the soap which is added is used up in precipitating a lime or mag- 
nesia soap before a permanent lather will form. T\Tien a large amount of 
water is prescribed for drinking purposes, it should be as soft as possible. 
Drinking waters are classified, according to the Rivers Pollution Com- 
mission, as follows: 



Spring Water J 

Wholesome.... -12. Deep Well Water V (Very palatable)! 

Upland Surface Waters ) 



(3. 

( 4. "Stored Rain or Soft Water I /x* j * i i * ui \ 

Suspicious. . . . { 5 g„^^^^ ^vater from Cultivated Land } (Mo<«e™t«Jy P^l^t^We) 

( 6. River Water to which Sewage gams Access ) f^....'. 
Dangerous. . . ] ^ gj^^Uow Well Water \ (P^^^^^Ie) 

Rosenau, in his "Preventive Medicine and Hygiene," prefers the fol- 
lowing simple classification: (a) good, (b) polluted, (c) infected. This 
practically corresponds to the classification of the Rivers Pollution Com- 
mission. 



522 WATERS 

POTABLE WATERS.— Potable waters, or those suitable for use as a 
source of domestic supply and for drinking, may be derived from public 
or private sources. The advantage of a public supply is that the whole 
quantity used by the City may be supervised carefully and analyzed fre- 
quently, thus insuring its purity and wholesomeness. On isolated farms 
or in small villages there are always sources of filth near at hand, such as 
stables, closets, drains, cesspools or hog wallows. Few individuals appre- 
ciate the danger of surface water as a source of filth to the water supply. 
It may percolate through the soil without the slightest purification, or it 
may run over the surface and into the well or cistern, carrying with it 
any germs of disease that may have been in the filth with which it came 
in contact. Water may be clear, colorless and tasteless, while it contains 
many impurities and disease bearing germs. Some of the most dangerous 
waters do not betray their character by their taste, color or appearance. 

Impurities of Water. — The impurities of water are both mineral 
and organic. As water percolates through the soil and over the rocks, it 
dissolves out various mineral substances, which, with the aid of carbon 
dioxid and other gases, are held in solution. The mineral substances ordi- 
narily found in water include calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium, 
iron, aluminium and a few other metals united with such acid ions as 
chlorin, sulphur and the sulphate, carbonate, nitrate, phosphate and sili- 
cate ions. The purification of water is best accomplished by distillation. 
Soluble impurities may often pass through the filter, so that filtered water 
is not nearly so reliable as distilled water. 

The organic constituents of waters are obtained from organic matter 
and are either vegetable or animal in origin. When water is loaded with 
organic matter, it is likely to contain the germs of disease. For instance, 
water may be contaminated with the drainage from cesspools and contain 
the germs of typhoid fever, cholera or other diseases of this class. The 
presence of organic matter is a warning to the chemist and the bacteriolo- 
gist that the water is dangerous and the source of pollution should be 
ascertained and the water condemned. To guard against impurities con- 
sisting largely of organic matter, sources of the water supply should be 
carefully and rigidly inspected. 

TABLE WATERS.— Table waters are comparatively free from mineral 
matter and should have little or no color, no odor, a pleasant, fresh taste 
and should contain only a moderate amount of solid matter, eight and one- 
half grains per gallon being a good average. Wholesome table waters 
should contain very little organic matter. What there is should be of 
vegetable origin, with only a small proportion of chlorids. Some of the 



CLASSIFICATION OF WATERS 523 

purest natural waters are found in the Appalachian and Green Mountain 
regions of the United States, where the rocks are of granite or sandstone, 
and where there is very little soil through which the water can percohite. 
Paradise Spring at Brunswick, Ale., contains only OAH) grains of mineral 
matter per gallon ; Poland Spring at Poland, Me.,'contain8 3.76 grains of 
mineral matter. Both are considered very low in mineral sulwtances. 

Table waters are not without therapeutic elTect. As we have learned 
in Chapter X, they are powerful solvents used to remove the waste tissues 
from the body in gouty and rheumatic conditions, in diseases 
of the liver, kidneys and bladder. Being highly charged with carlxjnic 
acid, their bright and sparkling appearance tempts the patient to use them 
in large quantities without effort. This class of waters in the United 
States are derived from the Bladon Springs, Choctaw, Alabama ; the Blue 
Lick, Kentucky; Clarendon, Ilutland County, Vermont; the Sweet Cha- 
lybeate, Alleghany, Virginia; Adam's Spring, Lake County, California; 
the Saratoga Vichy, New York, and the Wilhoit Springs, Oregon. 

Analysis of Table Waters. — In ta])le I, taken from Tibbies, will 
be found analyses of various table waters, showing the constituents in 
grains per gallon. 

MINERAL WATERS.— Mineral waters are classified under the following 
heads(2) : 

(a) Purgative and Bitter waters (d) Chalybeate waters 

(h) Alkaline waters (e) Sulphurous waters 

(c) Saline waters (/) Calcic waters 

(g) Thermal waters 

(a) Purgative or Bitter Waters. — Purgative or bitter waters are 
characterized by a large proportion of sulphate of sodium and sulphate 
of magnesium ; they also contain various proportions of magnesium chlo- 
rid, carbonate and nitrate, calcium, carbonate and sodium chlorid. These 
waters are aperient by reason of the sulphates. ^letabolism is encouraged 
by the chlorids, and the alkaline salts render them of value in many of 
the same diseases as are treated Ly the alkaline waters. These waters are 
indicated in small doses as stimulants to excite intestinal peristalsis and 
are also useful in habitual constipation. They are of considerable thera- 
peutic value in the treatment of acute and chronic diseases of the stomach, 
jaundice, disease of the liver, spleen and kidneys; in lithemia and in dis- 
eases due to the uric acid diathesis : in lead and other fonns of poisoning; 
in anemia, chlorosis, diseases of the blood and skin ; in scrofula, lymphatic 

35 



524 



WATERS 



t 









O 



2a 



'§*s 



2 jH-a 



-Sis 

CC M 03 

p^ pq ^ <i^ H Ph pL,m^ 






'3 o 

a > 



03 o 






(M t^ CO 

o »o 00 



O O 



O CO <:0 
l>. r-l ^ 
1-1 (N (M 



O (M 

CO 



CO Tt< O rH CO 

T-i (N CO 



CO iq p p 
T-H tJh I>! (N 



CO o ^ 



O CO ^* 



coo 
d 

CO 



CO (M"coi:^(MOdl:^oOOt^(MCOCO 
CO CO Oi 1-H !>. i-H t^ -^ 00 



(M CO Tt^' CO 
t^ CO 



(M 00 lO (M 
Odi-i t-h' 






o 

iz; 
o 
pq 






03 

S 



.21 

O 



O O O Oi t^ 

dt^ oo'ooi-H'>*dc<icdiOT-ir-io(M 

i-H lO rH CO T-l tH rH CO (N CO rH 



c<j »o p p c^ 

lo '-H CO ^ d '-i d lo 

O 1-H T-H 1— I 



coo 



00 



t^ Oi CO O "^ -^ b>- O lO 05 !>. O T-I T— I lO 05 CO 05 lO (N 1— I t^ O (M 
,-1 CO ilO T-H T-H Oi (N »-H -rti lO (N (M i-H »0 T-H -^ CO <M lO 



P (N T}H LO p p 

i>!o5»ooooodT-Hcoo6i>^iLOO 

(N CO ^ 00 to '^ lO (N CO 

(N rH 



t^ 00 

CO 



T3 OJ 
?3 03 



<^ "^ c3 o3 o3 o3 t>.i^ ;r3 o3 c3 o3 o3 o3 o3 ►T '^ o3 

<i^<!<5<1<5> <1 <^ <i1 <i1 <1 <1 ^ 'S 



O ^ O M 02 

g.3 goo 
f-i^ Sh 03 03 



.S.S 



§ 



CO 



o « 



§ 



t3 rv, 




•3 ^ o 03 c3 2 >:; 



S.*t3 o3 O O P 

oh^pqWpih 



03 



o 

CO 



o 



< 



3 •§ 

1 



m 

jH o3 

bc.a g 









S 03 013 -S S^ 



03 



w O -^J -H 
^ o a-oS ^ 03 -kT t3 S-^O O.J:^ 

^Q<Jcc^H^HOH^P^P^pq 



c3 

03 
I 



o-d 






r- OT N J3 g^ .. -. 



CLASSIFICATION OF WATERS 525 

and otlur enlargements, and in chronic nterine catarrh, leukorrhea, <•( in- 
gestion or chronic inflammatory diseases of tlie uterine appendages. 

The proper dose of the strong^M* aperient or purgative waters is usu- 
ally ahout a wineglassful, hest taken l)efure hreakfast and followed hy a 
cup of hot tea, coffee or milk. 

Analysis of Pkincii'al Purgative or Bitter Springs. — The prin- 
cipal springs from which this class of waters are ohtained, together with 
their analyses (constituents in grains per gallon), will bo found in Tabic 
II. (From Tibbies^ ^^^od and Hygiene.") 

(h) Alkaline Waters. — Alkaline waters arc divided into: 1. Sim- 
ple acidulous, 2. Alkaline acidulous, 3. Alkaline muriated acidulous, 4. 
Alkaline saline acidulous waters. 

1. The simple acidulous alkaline waters contain large quantities of 
carbon dioxid, which increases peristaltic action of the stomach and intes- 
tines. The principal waters of this class come from the Clysmic Spring 
in Wisconsin, Blue Lick in Kentucky, the Geyser Spring in California, 
the Manitou Soda Spring in Colorado, and the Carlsbad Spring in Bo- 
hemia. 

2. The alkaline acidulous waters contain, in addition to carbon dioxid, 
varying proportions of sodium carbonate. These waters are useful in the 
treatment of minor gastric disturbances and in catarrhal conditions of the 
respiratory tract. In moderate quantities they exert a stimulating action 
upon the gastro-intestinal tract and upon the urinary organs. They dis- 
solve mucus and neutralize the excess of acid in the stomach. These 
waters are useful in the treatment of constipation, indigestion and defi- 
ciency of secretion. 

3. The alkaline muriated acidulous waters contain, in addition to car- 
bon dioxid and sodium carbonate, large quantities of sodium chlorid. 
These waters exert a markedly solvent action on uric acid, biliary and 
urinary concretions. They are especially valuable in liquefying the secre- 
tion of the respiratory and urinary tracts. This class of waters is useful 
in the uric acid diathesis, hepatic engorgements, gallstones, hyperacidity 
of the gastric juice and catarrhs of the stomach and bladder. The Sara- 
toga Vichy is a good example of this type of water. 

4. The alkaline saline acidulous waters contain sulphate of sodium, 
bicarbonate and chlorid of sodium. They are both warm and cold waters. 
The cold waters when taken in large quantities act as purgatives and at 
the same time exert marked diuretic effects. The warm waters inhibit 
urinary secretion and are useful in relieving gastro-intestinal catarrh, gout 
and catarrhal jaundice, hepatic congestion and urinary concretions. Some 



526 



WATERS 



S S ^ 



O 5= 



o 






O 

fin 



bC.S 









o « 



Q 



O 






<3^ O 






1 



;! 



lO O CO CO t^ 
rt^ rfH (M t-h 



lO t^ CO (N .CO 

O "* (M t^ .00 



1-1 t^ 



t^ ^ CO (N 

1— I o 1— I CO 

r-H CO 



i-t ':0 y-i Oi lO ZD ^ C<i 

1— I GO 1—1 T-H T-l 1— I 1— I 



00 <M 



?^ : ; 



CO CO O O t^ 

T+H id CO 05 b- lo 

00 00 (M 00 00 rH 






O O rH 



CD CO CO 

cq CO CO 



CO CO 00 
CO 1-1 05 



00 lO ; CO CO p 

id CO • t^ CO CO 



I lO CO 05 o 1— I 00 

i 00 CO -*' 00 CD o 
-* 1-1 00 



oo 
id «M* 



• CO 



05 O t^ <M 05 CO 
O Tt< CO 05 05 (N 
CO CO CM -^ 1-1 i-H 



s 



■^ Oi 1— I i>. 05 05 T-i 

CO l:^ 1-1 oo CO -^ O 

COCOiOCDCO<Mt^(M 



t^ CO 



t^ 00 

lO Tfl 



CO T— I 1—1 1—1 1—1 CD 1—1 



rt< O Oi O 



lO 



t^ioco;^ .^ 



iOTjHTt<(MOi-i05t>- 
<NC0COO5'^C0(MO5 
t^rtliOCOi— I05(M(M 






-d ^'TS 



o s r-H ;; 



02 '^^'^Oi 



;S o a r7:3 o ; 



o 



1^2 



'gq 




gs 

CO o 



bC, 

3 



03 - 



c3 

So ^ 
OiPQpH 



<M CO 



s s s 

US o 5 

wow 



O lO 
05(N 



a 

o 



c3 

I 

*s w 

o3 Ph 



02 

o 



o 

O Oh, 
<l^ b _ 
S ^ S 



'^ c3 



6 
02 

So 



02 O O 

111 

o, 3 O 

c»pqo 



I 



Si m d £^ d 



^_§ I.I c3 
g-^; s S =5 



;S*-o 
PLiPh 




-^ 



CLASSIFICATION OF WATERS 627 

of the principal springs from which these waters are obtained are the 
Carlsbad and Marienbad in Hohoinia, Ke^ser Spa in (.'alifornia, and Hot 
Springs in Arizona. In many cases of albuminnria they effect a reduc- 
tion in the amount of albumin and exert a beneficial influence upon the 
injured kidneys. In urinary gravel— a sign of retarded metabolism— 
the alkaline waters have a characteristic effect; the acid reaction of the 
urine becomes less marked, the deposition of uric acid ceases, and the 
urine becomes clear, bland and unirritating. 

In addition to the alkaline waters given in Table III, on page 529, we 
enumerate below, additional springs in the United States supplying alka- 
line waters (3), viz.: 

ALKALINE SPRINGS 
Spring Locality ^fatb 

Blount Springs Alabama 

Hot Springs Arkansas 

St. Barbara Sulphur Springs ( 'alifomia 

St. Helena Sulphur Springs « 

Ashley's Sprmg South Carolina 

Glen Spring *• « 

NichoUs' Spring " « 

Onslow Alum Spring North ** 

Plummer's Arsenic Spring " « 

Thomson's Spring South « 

Perry Spring. Pike County Illinois 

Versailles Spring Brown County " 

Daggy Spring Greencastle County. . . Indiana 

Dewdrop Spring « « 

Epsom Spring Wyandotte County. . . ■ 

Hawkins' Spring Wayne County • 

Marian Artesian Well Grant County " 

Bryant Spring Kentucky 

Estill Chalybeate and Sulphur Spring " 

Field Spring Lincoln County ■ 

Grove Spring " " • 

Howard Spring * 

North Port Mineral Well Maine 

Poland Spring " 

Underwood Spring * 

Cljnnnera Spring Manor Estate Mar>'Iand 

Hubbardstone's Well lona Michigan 

Leslie's Spring Ingraham 

Warner Spring Albion " 

Birchdale Spring New Hampshire 

Concord Spring * * 

Jerusalem Spring " " 

Artesian Well Winslow Xow Jersey 

Calo Springs Brown's Mills 

Cherry Hill Springs Otsego County New York 

Florida Spring Montgomery • 

Lebanon Spring Columbia * 

Valley Springs Otsego County « 



528 WATEES 

Spring Locality State 

Yellow Springs Green County Ohio 

Black Barren Lancaster County Pennsylvania 

Cresson's Springs Cambria County " 

Fayette Limestone and Chalybeate Spring. .Bedford County " 

McVittey's Satilla Spring Huntingdon County. . " 

Miimequa Springs Bradford County " 

Rock Springs Lancaster County " 

Strummel's Lithia Spring Adam's County " 

Missequoi Spring Frankland Vermont 

Augusta Springs Virginia 

Berkeley Springs " 

Capon Springs " 

Heahng Springs " 

Jordan Springs. " 

Massanattan Spring " 

Orkneys Spring " 

Rawley Spring , " 

Stribbehng's Spring " 

(c) Saline Waters. — Saline waters are solutions of halogen com- 
pounds of the alkalies, commonly distinguished by the presence of large 
quantities of sodium chlorid. They also comprise solutions of calcium, 
potassium, lithium and aluminium chlorids, and may contain traces of 
bromin or iodin. 

The simple sodium chlorid waters contain besides the sodium and 
other chlorids carbon dioxid in large quantities. The sodium chlorid in- 
creases the secretion of the mucous membranes, especially in the stomach. 
Those waters exert a markedly diuretic and laxative effect and are useful 
in chronic catarrh of the respiratory tract and of the alimentary tract. 

The bromin and iodin waters contain bromin and iodin, in addition 
to the sodium and other chlorids. The bromin occurs in the form of 
sodium and magnesium bromid; the iodin in the form of magnesium 
iodid, calcium iodid and sodium iodid. These waters exert a special effect 
upon the lymphatic system and hasten absorption. They are of value in 
syphilis and diseases of the glands, as in goiter. 

Lithium is often present in the simple sodium chlorid waters and is 
thought to be valuable in dissolving uric acid. It is questionable if such 
action occurs, yet these waters are markedly diuretic. Saline waters with 
a large percentage of lithium are useful in the treatment of gout, renal 
and urinary concretions. These mineral waters are useful in the so-called 
uric acid diathesis, gouty rheumatism, whether involving the joints or 
other parts, in gravel, stone and obesity, in fact in any condition due to 
defective metabolism. They have proved beneficial in numerous affec- 
tions, neurasthenia, neuralgia, sciatica, chorea and paralysis ; in blood 
poisoning, as by lead or mercury; in syphilis and in chronic skin dis- 



CLASSIFICATIOX OF WATERS 



520 



t 









&2| 






i£ 



II 



^2 



»o 



s 



S :* 



OJ . O CO »<^ »o 



c5 



So 



rH o 



15 :-^fi ;- -^ S 



ooo 



,- oj O.S 

ex, 



228 



»ooo 



o 



^ 






IX) ;-! 

^6 






»0 Oi 
CO t>. 



O . lO CO 00 ^ 00 O 

(N • r^ ^ t^ cJ <m' <m' 

Tt< • Ci CO 



q ©q q 

«o CO !>. X r>^ »>.' p o 



(N CO ^ 



•OOO 



O .-I C5 (N 



o q 

-^ CO 






o»oo 



OOCO 



X X !M X 
CO CO rt< "^ 



O O . O OOO 



»o 2S S 



3 13 O oj 03 o 



o 






illlil'l 



CO 



3 



o "^^ ;&, 



« 








02 



02 



.02 






• P 



^- O -: ^ 

^ ^ ^ si 

o go u 

n» aw O • o ,-9 O 



^o 

-^"^•3 
S S 



^- rf ro O CJ 






'T3 



c3 

-t-s 

O 






a,b02 



J2 






£7^ 5f 



S 
^ 



> 

&4 



I- ^ 






CG 



> 



•§ 



>< 2 : Is 
0<x 



-^2 



530 WATERS 

eases. The waters of !N'auheim are much used in cardiac disease. The 
beneficial action of these waters is in great part due to their sodium 
chlorid content, although the effects of artificial solutions are inferior to 
those of the natural waters. The latter contain combinations of chlorids 
of the alkaline earths, and in some of them are large percentages of 
bromin and iodin; lithium, strontium and iron are found in others. The 
beneficial action of chlorids when ingested consists largely in the aid 
they render in the digestion of albumin and starch. They also induce a 
free, normal action of the alimentary mucous membrane; their absorp- 
tion takes place quickly; they give the blood some of its most essential 
constituents, and by means of the circulation they are supplied to all of 
the body tissues and secreting organs. These properties make them use- 
ful in various types of dyspepsia in which secretion is abnormal, in 
torpidity of the liver and bowels, and in many conditions in which chronic 
inflammatory exudations exist. 

Some of the more important American saline waters with analysis will 
be found in Table IV(4) : 

Thermal saline waters come gushing from the earth well heated, and 
are believed, by many persons, to possess special properties. Besides their 
internal use, most of the saline waters are used for baths, inhalations, 
sprays and douches, especially the thermal waters. Robin(5) names the 
conditions in which brine baths are useful, as: (a) in all abnormal con- 
ditions in which nitrogenous excretion or nitrogenous exchange in the 
organism is decreased; (h) in conditions in which nitrogenous oxidation 
is diminishing; (c) and finally in conditions in which 'tissues rich in 
nitrogen and phosphorus are wasting. The effects of these baths vary 
with their strength. Baths of three-quarter strength are most beneficial 
when an increase of nitrogenous exchange or oxidation is not desirable, 
as in individuals who are losing weight, but this type of bath has little 
influence over chronic bone affections. Baths of half strength are of use 
in conditions in which nitrogenous exchange is decreased, as in strumous 
states, affections of the glands, and disorders of the joints and bones. 
Baths of full strength have a marked effect on organic changes, and so 
are valuable in rickets and other bone affections ; in some nervous affec- 
tions, in anemia and in auto-intoxications. By them the production of 
urea is diminished, but since they cause the oxidation of products of 
imperfect combustion and poisonous waste matters they are valuable in 
conditions of obesity, gout and the like. There has been lively conten- 
tion as to whether waters containing mineral salts when used for bathing 
produce more beneficial effects than ordinary water used for the same 



CLASSIFICATION OF WATERS 



531 





S 




u 




< 




o 




tf 


s 


s 


w 


en 


H 


;?: 


< 


:^ 


^ 


O 


w 


5^ 


^ 





S g 

o 
O 



t 






111 






CJ CO 



S 8 2 

cu ;- ft. O ft. 



I 




OOOQtC t^ 



:g»og .g .J50 



loe 



3 



COO 



^ ; 



00 



s 



s 



ss 



M-H^ 



S 



cog 



OQO 
CO O • CO rt* 



fe O t>. QO CO « -^ 
O »-i (M C^l ^ ^ t>. 

2 «5_ X, -H^ ^ 

O »o" c^* '^ 



03 

O 
02 



3l 

CI *H 



00»0<M»-^Tt4CO<NO>COOO«5^X»O^^C5 

05 CO r^ o i;©!^ i>-_co^Ci_t^ "^^^ o^coci^^Oco 



Tj^ M 



15 



g>H'^ 



- d^i^i;^' 



^ ^ w -• 






_ t^ •^ L> 




>^i 



IliillllHilll' 












S'2<1 



02. 



C Si 



^02 









^.::i t-:;^?- 






Crtsr 



C C ;,■ 



^-^ 



X c 

00 OS « 



r--^Si 



liliiljili 



s§ 






o 
O 

i 
a 

I 



.0 

a 






*<s-;x 



532 WATERS 

purpose. The accumulated experience of years points to the superiority 
of the mineral baths, for it has been demonstrated that fine crystals of 
these salts left on the skin after the bath continue, their beneficial influence. 
(d) Chalybeate and Ferriiginous Waters. — Chalybeate and fer- 
ruginous waters contain large proportions of iron; they are divided into 
carbonated iron waters, sulphated iron waters, iron and arsenic waters. 
The waters containing carbonate of iron also contain large quantities of 
carbon dioxid. These waters increase the number of the red blood-cells 
and the amount of hemoglobin. They stimulate the appetite, but are 
prone to produce constipation. They are indicated in chlorosis and in 
anemia. 

Sulphated iron waters contain large percentages of ferrous sulphate, 
and in addition to the sulphate of sodium, magnesium and calcium sul- 
phate. Many of these waters also contain arsenic, alum and sulphuric 
acid in small amounts. These waters are indicated in cases of chronic 
diarrhea, in anemic children, in chronic gastric conditions, in ulcer of the 
stomach and in chronic malarial poisoning. They should be prescribed 
with caution as they are prone to produce indigestion and nausea. Sul- 
phated iron waters are best taken in small doses. 

The iron and arsenic waters contain considerable quantities of arsenic 
in addition to iron ; they are indicated in chlorotic and anemic conditions, 
in chronic malaria and in neuralgias. They also serve as tonics for the 
blood and nerves, but if given over too long a period of time they may 
cause dyspepsia. The indications for the use of these waters are the same 
as for iron in other forms — debility, anemia, chlorosis and other states 
of the blood in which the cells are defective in quantity or quality, as for 
instance in diseases of the female generative organs. 

Some of this class of waters also contain the sulphates of soda and 
magnesia, called the purgative chalybeate waters. These waters are 
employed in diseases that have shown the beneficial infiuence of bitter 
purgative waters. Waters containing alum are very useful in the treat- 
ment of chronic catarrh of stomach and intestines, particularly when 
diarrhea is present. The alkaline chalybeate waters are beneficial in 
disorders of stomach and intestines, in diabetes, Bright's disease, renal 
stone, and gravel ; also in certain diseases of the nervous system, as 
hysteria, chorea and epilepsy. Saline chalybeates, including the Hom- 
burg waters, having tonic and laxative properties, are of value in slug- 
gishness of liver and intestines ; in gallstones, hepatic congestion, hemor- 
rhoids, plethora and conditions favored by a life of luxury. Kreuznach 



CLASSIFICATION OF WATERS 633 

water and others containing large amounts of chlorids are of use in 
lymphatic disorders, tul)ercular aflfections of glands, joints and bones; 
in diseases of the nervous system, including paralysis, and in rheumatic 
and gouty conditions. 

In addition to the ferruginous waters given in Table V (Tibbies), we 
enumerate below other American waters containing from 21 to 25 grains 
of snli)liate of iron to the gallon: 



AMERICAN FERRUGINOUS WATERS 

Spring Locality State 

Kittanning Springs Armstrong Peniwylvania 

Alum Springs Bath County Virginia 

Alum Springs Bedford County 

London Alum Water Campbell County " 



Other American waters containing oxid of iron are : 

Spring Grains Locality State 

Congress Spring 15 . . . Santa Clara County . . California 

River Spring 4 . . . Este's Park Colorado 

Oswassee Spring 12 . . . Shiawassee Michigan 

Arien Spring 5 . . . Jackson County Missouri 

Richfield Spring 5 . . . Otsego County New York 

Stryker's Spring 10 Ohio 

Cresson Iron Spring 29. . .Cambria County Pennsylvania 

Thorpe's Spring 40. . .Hood's County Texas 

Rock Enon Spring 14 . . . Frederick County Virginia 



(e) Sulphurous Waters. — Sulphurous waters (6) contain hydrogen 
sulphid or some other sulphur compound such as sodium, calcium, mag- 
nesium or potassium sulphid. The sulphurous waters are obtained both 
hot and cold ; they are especially useful in the treatment of syphilis and 
chronic lead-poisoning, in hemorrhoidal conditions and congestions of the 
liver. They are also beneficial in many chronic skin diseases, blood 
poisons, nervous diseases, chorea, tuberculosis, glandular affections of chil- 
dren and tuberculous diseases of bones and joints, uterine ailments and 
in respiratory diseases. They are of value in atonic dyspepsia, catarrh 
of the stomach and hepatic congestion. As a bath or douche, these waters 
are exceedingly valuable in chronic skin diseases, rheumatism, enlarged 
or stiffened joints, contracted tendons or muscles. 



534 



WATEES 



9 

< 



II 

g I 
- B s 

go 

H S 

I i 
^ I 
I § 

go 



i 



gl 






cog 



o « 



<50H 









• o 



i-iO 



1-1 (M 

CO 



00 (M 

CO 00 
00 -^ 



OOr-tOO 



o o CO r^ CO 

t^ 00 CD 00 CO 



LO o 
CO CO 



i 


II 


O <M O 05 


'. '. . . . 


d • 


O O <M CO 




t: : 


1— 1 1— 1 




(M 


o 

o 
n 


5-8 


t>. ; ; ; p o p (N rH Oi 

CO * ' ! iO Tji CD T-H T-J CO 


CO CD Oi 

(m' d 00 T*; ,-; 


•00 

• -*' 




:::::: :^^ 

'. '. '. '. '. '. ! o o lo 

r-i^ 


c^ p p ^^ 
ixN* i>^ d co' 


•0 




74.0 

"7.8 
22.2 
70.8 


05 1:^ 


:§ 


1 


: : : :8 : : :^^ 


05 : t^ ; ! 


;?5 



'-HIM ;^ "S OJ 




^ ^ fl S'^-g 
^ ^ 03 fl.o g 



^*d 



5^ 



■ d 
• o 

: rt 

§1 



taQ 



:5 s-^„§ 

'-'- ^ C 5r! F^ 03 '^ TJ '— ■ 



o 

g - 

t^ > IV Qi d 



a 

o S; 



bC bC 



a . . 
't, ^- bC 

02. St: 



S.S faijfi ^aoi 






^ -If 73 



.^. 



O O oj oj <^ <1 pq W P^ 



bOO 
c3T3 



3 

bC fl 

P bO 

i' 



bC 
O 

II 



^■S&K& ►SS 



£-1 

s 

2 



CLASSIFICATION OF WATERS 535 

The most renowned sulphuretted waters in the United States are found 
as follows: 

Spring Localitv State 

Valhemosa Spring . . Alabama 

Hot SpriiiRs Garland County Arkanaaa 

Hot Sulphur Springs * 

Nysa Springs .('ttlifomia 

Pasa Robels Hot Springs " 

St. Helena White Sulphur Springs . . " 

Manley Springs . . North Carolina 

Shorio Springs . . «♦ " 

Glenn's Springs South " 

Canon Springs ('olorado 

Pogassa Hot Springs " 

Portea Springs ** 

Bladon Springs . Florida 

Indian Springs Georgia 

French Lick Spring Orange County Indiana 

Indian Springs " 

Lodi Artesian Springs " 

West Baden Springs " 

Blue Lick Springs Kentucky 

Dremion Springs ** 

Olympian Springs " 

De Soto Springs Louisiana 

White Sulphur Springs " 

Alpena Springs Michigan 

Ypsilanti Springs ** 

Motesano Springs Missouri 

St. Louis Springs •* 

Sweet Springs " 

White Sulphur Springs Montana 

Las Vegas Springs New Mexico 

Avon Spring Livingstone New York 

Balston " 

Longman's Well Rochester " " 

Richfield Springs " " 

Saratoga Springs ** " 

Sharon Springs ** " 

Delaware Sulphur Spring ' Ohio 

Deschutes Spring Wasco County Oregon 

. Carhsle Spring Pennsylvania 

Minnequa Spring ** 

Hagers Spring Tennessee 

Castihan Springs Sumner County ^ * 

Highdate Springs Vermont 

Missequoi Springs ** 

Sheldon ** 

Hot Springs Bath County Virginia 

Hot Sulphur Springs " 

Buffalo Springs Mecklenburgh County " 

Sulphur Springs Monroe County " 

(/) Calcic Waters. — Calcic waters are characterized by the pres- 
ence of large amounts of calcium and mag^^esium salts. They diminish 
the production of acid in the stomach and also lessen the secretion of the 



536 



WATERS 



respiratory, digestive and urinary tracts. They are indicated especially 
in chronic catarrh of the urinary organs, in uric acid diathesis, gout, 
glandular tuberculosis and rachitis. These waters should be prescribed 
at first in small quantities and gradually increased until the flow of urine 
is markedly increased. 

The principal calcic waters are: 

Spring State 

Bethesda Spring Wisconsin 

Birchdale Spring Vermont 

Butterworth Spring Michigan 

Clarendon Spring Vermont 

Eaton Rapids Spring Michigan 

Gettysburg Spring Pennsylvania 

Hubbardstown Spring Michigan 

Silurian Spring Wisconsin 

The chemical composition of the most important calcic mineral waters 
is as follows(6) : 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF CALCIC WATERS 



Spring 



Alleghany Springs 

Allouez Mineral Springs 

Arkansas Hot Springs 

Bath 

Bedford Springs (Magnesia Springs) 

Clifton Springs 

Contrexeville 

Driburg 

Eaton Rapid Wells 

Greenbrier White Sulphur Springs . 

Inselbad 

Leukerbad 

Lippsprings 

Manitou Springs , 

Marienbad Rudolfsquelle 

Old Sweet Springs 

Szkleno 

Warm Sulphur Springs 

Weissenburg 

Wildungen 



Calcium 
Sulphate 



Grams 
1.80 
1.80 
1.80 
1.50 
1.84 
1.18 
1.10 
1.04 
0.77-0.94 
1.33 

1.42 
0.82 
0.82 
0.82 
0.22 
0.22 
0.24 
0.24 
2.00 



Calcium 
Bicarbonate 



Grams 

0.42 
0.42 
0.42 
0.42 
0.42 
0.45 
1.44 
1.44 
1.44 
0.30 
0.09 
0.41 
0.41 
0.60 
0.60 
0.10 
0.10 
1.27 
1.27 



Calcium 
Carbonate 



Grams 

0.06 

0.47 

0.12 

0.12 

0.12 

0.16 

0.16 

0.16 
0.34-0.78 

0.12 

0.12 • 

0.12 

0.12 
0.40-1.11 
0.40-1.11 

0.51 

0.51 

0.08 

0.08 

0.08 



(g) Thermal Waters. — The principal thermal springs in the United 
States are in Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Idaho, Michigan, 



CLASSIFICATION OF WATERS 537 

Kew Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Virginia; many of them have alreai^y 
been particularly mentioned. Some of these springs flow from the earth 
in the neighborhood of old extinct volcanoes; their temperature is very 
great, from 150° F. to 105° F. These waters do not, however, contain 
any active mineral ingredients. They are rarely used for drinking pur- 
poses, but are used mainly for thermal baths. The places where these 
springs are located are important watering places where baths of the most 
luxurious and elaborate description are provided. The waters are used in 
every conceivable form for therapeutic purposes. Great curative powers 
are claimed for these waters in gout and rheumatism in the joints and 
elsewhere; in nervous disorders, as in neurasthenia, sciatica, paralysis; in 
spinal disorders and chronic diseases of bones and joints. The treatment 
is aided by climatology, trophotherapy, thermotherapy, electrotherapy, 
massage, Swedish and other g;)'mnastic movements. 

Mud Baths. — At some of the watering places, mud baths are very 
popular. They are prepared by mixing well seasoned earth containing 
more or less of the mineral substances which make the water of medicinal 
value. Slime baths consist of the mud from the bottom of a pond or 
river, which is rubbed over the body before bathing. Each of these 
methods is supposed to accentuate the action of the water in certain cases. 
Mud baths are claimed to be useful in chronic rheumatism, gout and the 
various uterine ailments of women. They are contra-indicated in valvu- 
lar diseases of the heart and chronic Bright's disease. Carbonic acid 
baths are indicated in neurasthenia, diseases of the reproductive organs 
and sexual impotency. The principal thermal waters in the United 
States are to be found in the following locations: Arkansas, Arizona, 
California, (Buncombe County) North Carolina, (Charleston Artesian) 
South Carolina, Colorado, (Merriweather) Georgia, Idaho, Michigan, 
(Volcano) Nebraska, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Virginia and West 
Virginia. 

WATER CURES.— In order to obtain the best results from water cures, 
they should always be carried out at the resorts. Under exceptional cir- 
cumstances a water cure may be ordered at the patient's home, but the 
results are never quite so satisfactory as when the patient goes to a water- 
ing place. For not only will he have the advantage of the baths and water 
at the springs, but also in. addition, the value of the change of climate, 
scene, plenty of outdoor exercise and freedom from care and worry. 

The methods and the diet at the diiferent institutions vary greatly and 
for the most part unnecessarily so. In many of these watering places 
methods are empiric and are not founded on any sound basis. Certain 



638 WATEKS 

foods are forbidden for the most fanciful reasons. Again, the routine 
and diet at many resorts are alike for all patients, regardless of their 
ailments. An important factor overlooked at these water-cure resorts is 
the abuse of drinking water. Patients with weak hearts, chronic nephritis 
or those suffering from atony or dilatation of the stomach may take a 
considerable amount of water without overtaxing the excretory organs. 

For instructions as to diet in the various diseases, the reader will be 
referred to Volume III of this work. 

Water Drinking^. — Hav/k(7), in a series of beautiful and convincing 
experiments, arrived at the conclusion that copious water drinking caused 
an increased excretion of nitrogen and phosphorus in the urine. The in- 
crease in the amount of nitrogen eliminated is due, primarily, to the 
washing out from the tissues of the urea the nitrogen previously formed, 
but not removed by the normal processes, and secondarily, to a stimulation 
of the protein catabolism. The increase in the excretion of phosphorus 
is due to increased cellular activity and the accompanying catabolism 
of nucleins, lecithins and other phosphorus-containing bodies. 

Strauss (8) says that increased supply of liquids increases the excre- 
tion of the products of protein metabolism, but does not hasten the metab- 
olism itself. The excretion of liquids is accompanied by loss of body 
weight dependent on removal of nitrogen waste, but not on loss of fat. 

WATER DRINKING AT MEALS.— Fowler and Hawk (9), continuing 
their studies on water drinking in the human subject, investigated the 
effect of the copious ingestion of water with meals. The subject of the 
experiment was placed on a normal, constant diet and by means of a pre- 
liminary period of sufficient length, was brought to a condition of ap- 
proximate nitrogen equilibrium. At this point one thousand cubic 
centimeters of water were added to each meal and continued thus through 
a period of ^Ye days. Immediately following this period came a final 
period of eight days, during which the original normal constant diet was 
again maintained and the after-effects of the copious water ingestion ob- 
served. 

Final Conclusions. — In view of their experiments, they regard the 
current statements respecting the exceedingly harmful influence of water 
drinking with meals as misleading and arrive at the following conclu- 
sions : 

The daily drinking of three liters of water with meals, for a period of five days, 
by a man twenty-two years of age, who was in a condition of nitrogen equilibrium 
through the ingestion of a uniform diet, produced the following findings: 

1. An increase in body weight, aggregatmg two pounds in five days. 



WATER DRINKING 539 

2. An increased secretion of urinary nitrogen; with excess nitrogen being mainly 

in the form of urea, ammonia, and croatin. 

3. A decreased excretion of creatinin anti the coincident appearance of creatin 
in tlie urine. The decn»a.sed creatinin output in In'Iieved to indicate that the copious 
water drinking hiis stimuhitcd protein icatabolism. The appearance of creatin is 
considered evidence tliat the wat(»r haa (;auHed a partial miwcuiar diMinU'gration 
resulting in the releiuse of creatin, but not profound (?nough to yield the total nitrog«'n 
content of the muscle. The output of (;reatin is, therefore, out of all proportion to 
the increase of the excretion of total nitrogen. 

4. An increiised output of aminoniM. which is interpreU^d an indi'-atifjg an inrrca.'<4'<l 
output of gastric juice. 

5. A decreai^ed excretion of fecc's and of fecal nitrogen, the (hKrcjw in th<* <'X<n»- 
tion of fecal nitrogen being of sufficient magnitutle to .secure a lowered excretion of 
both the bacterial and the non-bacterial nitrogen. 

6. A decrease in the quantity of bacteria excreted daily. 

7. An uicrease in the percentage of total nitrogen appearing as bacterial nitrogen. 

8. A lower creatinin coefficient. 

9. A more economical utilization of the protein constituents of the diet. 

10. The general conclusion to be reached as the result of this experiment is to the 
effect that the drinking of a large amount of water with meals was attended by many 
desirable and by no undesirable features. 

BEVERAGES 

In addition to water, there are a number of beverages that serve not 
only to meet the physical needs of the human economy, but are also taken 
for their stimulating effect. These beverages afford the stimulation which 
is necessary in certain diseased conditions and at the same time take the 
place of water as a beverage. The habit of imbibing socially for the pur- 
pose of conviviality unfortunately leads sometimes to the pernicious habit 
of taking such drinks to excess. 

From time immemorial, the ingenuity of man has supplied mildly 
stimulating non-intoxicating beverages from various vegetable substances. 
It is somewhat surprising that people of different nationalities, living at 
different epochs in and under widely different conditions of civilization, 
should have felt the necessity for, and appreciated the satisfaction to be 
derived from, the use of this class of beverages. It is even more remark- 
able that in the beginning they should have selected the plants for making 
them that continue in use for the same purpose tMay. 

The all important constituent contained in these beverages is an alka- 
loid, a nitrogenous substance containing stimulating properties. Tea, cof- 
fee and cocoa contain, besides this alkaloid, a volatile oil which imparts 
an agreeable odor and taste to the beverage and a considerable amount 
of an astringent principle related to tannin, which modifies the taste be- 
sides exerting its specific physiological action. Before describing these 

36 



540 BEVERAGES 

beverages, it will be instructive to review briefly the History, mode of 
manufacture and chemistry of each of them, then to consider their uses 
in the diet and their action on digestion as a whole. 

Varieties of Beverages — tea.— Tea, the leaves of Thea Sinensis, a 
subtropical plant introduced into Europe by the Dutch East India Com- 
pany, is believed to have had its origin in Assam and Burmah. The plant 
grows wild in the mountainous regions which separate India from China. 
There are authorities who allege that tea was grown in China before 519 
A. D. Reliable authorities state that tea was introduced into Japan in 
the thirteenth century. Mr. Pepys, writing in his diary in 1660, says, 
"I sent for a cup of tea, a China drink, of which I had never drunk be- 
fore." In 1664 the East India Company considered a gift of two pounds 
of tea to the Queen of England a rare gift. A tea house was established 
in London in 1657 that sold tea at fifty dollars per pound. Besides 
China, Japan and Assam, tea is grown in Ceylon, Java and Brazil and 
for the past ten years tea has been successfully grown in South Carolina. 
The plant grows best in sub-tropical countries where the rainfall is at 
least sixty inches or more. 

The tea plant when cultivated grows to the height of three or four 
feet, but if allowed to grow without pruning, it may attain a height of 
forty or fifty feet. The plants are obtained from seeds and when planted 
in rows four feet apart and four feet distant, attain in two years a height 
of two feet. They are cut back to ten inches high and after another year 
back to fifteen inches high. At three years the mature tree includes a 
great number of young shoots three feet in height. The plant flushes 
or sends out shoots four times a year, when the young leaves are ready 
to pick. The leaves are picked irregularly; some farms pick every fort- 
night, others only twenty times per year. They are carefully picked with 
the thumb and forefinger. One hundred pounds of fresh leaves yield 
about twenty-five pounds of tea. 

Green and Black Tea. — Tea is not green or black according to sepa- 
rate species of tea plant, but derives its color from the difference in mode 
of treatment of the same plant. Green tea is made in Japan by steaming 
the leaves before they are rolled and dried, while the Chinese wither the 
leaves in a pan at the temperature of 160° E. Black tea is obtained by 
allowing the green leaves to wither in the sun ; then they are rolled until 
they become soft and "mashy," the object being to break up the fibers 
and cells of the leaf and liberate the constituents, so that they may after- 
wards be more easily extracted. They are then made into balls and al- 
lowed to ferment. 



VARIETIES OF BEVERAGES 



541 



The process of fermentation oxidizes a certain portion of the tannin 
in the leaves, converting it into less soluble forms while the essential oil 
content is increased and a certain amount of bitterness developed. When 
the fermentation is complete, the leaves are again exposed to the sun and 
dried in an oven. The main difference, then, between green and black 
tea lies in the fact that bhick tea is fermented while the green is not. 

Quality of Tea. — The quality of the tea depends somewhat upon the 
age of the leaves when picked, the younger leaf yielding the best tea. 
Apart from this cause of variation, teas show marked difference in "body" 
according to the country and district in which they are produced. 

The principal agent that imparts "body" and flavor to tea is oxydase, 
an enzyme found in the unopened tip-leaf of the young shoot(lO), which 
diminishes with its growth and expansion. The proportion of this enzyme 
present in a given sample depends in a measure upon the amount of phos- 
phates in the soil. The enzyme increases during the preparation of the 
tea as the leaf withers. The leaves containing the highest percentage of 
the enzyme make the most highly flavored tea. 

China and Indian Teas. — The most famous China teas are: 
Congou, Oolong, Formosa, Souchong and Bohea (black teas) ; Hyson, 
Twankay and Gunpowder (green teas). India Assam or Assam Pekoe 
are good teas. A good blend is made of China Assam and Ceylon teas 
together. China tea, such as Moning Congou, is very suitable for persons 
with weak digestive organs. The Indian teas, especially those produced 
in Assam, are very strong. Their astringent properties make them power- 
ful teas, not well suited for brewing alone. They are admirable for 
blending with milder varieties. 

Composition of Black and Green Tea. — The following table from 
Bannister(ll) gives the composition of black and green tea: 
ANALYSIS OF GREEN AND BLACK TEA 



Constituents 

Water 

CafTein 

Albumin (insoluble) 

Albumin (soluble) 

Alcoholic Extract 

Dextrin 

Pectin and Pectin Acid 

Tannic Acid 

Chlorophyll and Resin 

Cellulose 

Ash 




542 



BEVERAGES 



It will be observed in studying the above analysis that tea contains 
practically no nutrient ingredients. Its principal constituents are caffein 
and tannic acid. Its special aroma is due to a volatile oil. Since tannic 
acid is detrimental to the process of digestion, tea should be so prepared 
as to contain the smallest possible amount of tannin and the greatest 
proportion of caffein obtainable. 

Notwithstanding that green and black tea is produced from leaves from 
the same bush, their composition, as we have seen, is not quite the same. 
As previously stated, this difference arises from the method of prepara- 
tion. The amount of tannic or gallo-tannic acid diminishes from 13 per 
cent in fresh leaves to 10 or 11 per cent in green, and to less than 5 per 
cent in black; there is an increase in the proportion of volatile oil and 
amido-nitrogen resulting from the fermentation; in the black tea. 

These differences are graphically shown in the following analyses by 
Kozai(12): 

COMPOSITION OF TEA-LEAVES BEFORE AND AFTER PREPARATION- 
PERCENTAGES 



Constituents 


Fresh Leaves 

before 

Treatment 


Made into 
Green Tea 


Made into 
Black Tea 


Crude Fiber 


10.44 

37.33 

5.97 

4.11 

.91 

.96 

3.30 

6.49 

27.86 

12.91 

4.97 

50.97 


10.06 

37.43 

5.99 

3.94 

1.13 

.93 

3.20 

5.52 

31.43 

10.64 

4.92 

53.74 


10 07 


Crude Protein (N x 6.25) 


39 90 


Total Nitrogen. 


6 22 


Albuminoid Nitrogen 


4 11 


Amido Nitrogen 


1 16 


Caffein Nitrogen • . . . 


96 


Caffein (thein) 


3 30 


Ethereal Extract 


5 82 


Other Nitrogen-free Extract 

Gallo Tannic Acid 


35.39 
4 89 


Ash 


4 93 


Soluble in Hot Water 


47 2a 







The composition of a cup of tea is of far greater practical impor- 
tance than the leaves from which it is made. In ^^drawing'' a cup of tea, 
if prolonged heat is used, the percentage of tannic acid will be greater. 
Tea leaves should therefore be in contact with the hot water only just long 
enough to extract the volatile oil and some of the caffein. If tea is in- 
fused in the usual way, about 25 per cent of the leaf goes into solution. 
The caffein content is so soluble that it is all practically dissolved out 
immediately the infusion is begim, which is not the case with tannic acid. 
There is much less tannic acid after infusing five minutes than after 



VARIETIKS oi IJEVEHAGES 543 

infusing fifteen minutes. The following experiment by Hughe8(13) 
bears this out : 

Five^finutcs' Tliirty Minutes* 

Infusion Infusion 

Assam 10.35 per cent 14.70 per cent 

Ceylon 8.00 " " 10.88 " " 

China 7.80 " " 9.40 " " 

Hutchison conducted a number of experiments to determine the quan- 
tity of cafFein and tannic acid in an ordinary cup of tea drawn or in- 
fused in the usual way and arrived at the following conclusions: 

CAFFEIN IN TEAS » 



Tea 


CafTein in 

Grammes 

per 150 c.c. 


Grains 
Teacup 


Ceylon Pekoe , 

Fine Darjeeling 

Common Congou . 


0.0787 
0.0751 
0.0745 
0.0645 
0.0590 
0.0580 
0.0547 
0.0510 
0.0475 


1.21 
1.05 
1 14 


Mojoine Gunpowder (green) 

Imoerial Gunoowder. . 


0.99 
090 


Household Blend 


0.89 


Younff Hvson 


084 


Fine Moning 


0.78 


Fine Assam 


0.73 







TANNIN IN TEAS' 



Tea 


Tannin as Gallo- 

tannic Acid per 

150 c.c. of Infusion 


Grains 
Teacup 


Movune Gunoowder 


0.273 
0.242 
0.227 
0.173 
0.168 
0.168 
0.142 
0.087 
0.080 
0.058 


4.20 


Younff Hvson 


3.72 


Tmnerial Gunoowder 


3.49 


Ordinarv Blark Blend . . 


2.66 


Finp Darieeline 


2.58 


Onod Rlflok Blend 


2.58 


Cevlon Pekoe 


2.18 


Tiarmpnp" Soiiohonff 


1.33 




1.23 


Finp IVfoninff 


0.89 







1 Eight grams of dry leaf were infused with 300 c.c. boiling water for five min- 
utes. The caffein was estimated by Allen's method. 

2 Eight grams of the dry leaf were infused for five minutes in 300 c.c. of water, 
and the tannin estimated by Procter's modification of Lowentbal's process. 



544 BEVERAGES 

Proper Method of Infusing Tea. — In spite of the popularity of tea 
as a beverage, it is comparatively rare to get a really good cup of tea. For 
this reason it is thought well to give some suggestions for the proper 
method of infusing tea, based on the facts as to its chemistry which we 
have just been considering. 

The first point in "drawing" a cup of good tea is, it should be m- 
fused, not boiled or stewed, as is often the case. The water is of prime 
importance ; it should not be too hard, as the presence of lime salts will 
interfere with the extraction of certain constituents of the tea leaf. If 
the water is hard, add a pinch of bicarbonate of sodium to the teapot. 
On the other hand, water which is too soft seems to extract an excess of 
the bitter principle from the leaf. 

The Chinese rule is, "Take the water from a running stream; that 
from the hill springs is best, river water is the next and well water is 
the worst of all." The point to be emphasized is that the water should 
be aerated. Prolonged boiling drives out the dissolved air and leaves the 
liquid flat. Therefore, the water should have been barely brought to the 
boiling point. It never should be allowed to simmer, as with such water 
good tea can never be made. 

The quantity of tea to be used is a matter of great moment if good 
tea is desired. Tea tasters recommend forty-three grains of tea to three 
and one-half ounces of water as the proper proportions. The domestic 
rule is two teaspoonsful of tea to a pint of boiling water. Allow it to 
stand for five minutes, when it is ready to pour. The above rules, if fol- 
lowed, will infuse good tea of sufficient strength for most persons, pro- 
vided the tea is of good quality. If allowed to stand longer, the aroma 
is spoiled; more tannin, as well as other astringent principles and color- 
ing matter, is extracted; the infusion is made rough and bitter to the 
taste and unwholesome. Before the tea leaves are placed in the pot, it 
should be scalded to insure the proper temperature of the water when 
ready to start the infusion. 

Most Europeans add sugar and cream to the tea as it is poured, 
claiming its deliciousness is increased thereby. This in the eyes of an 
oriental connoisseur would be considered an outrage. Such a practice is 
to be condemned on hygienic grounds, as it is known that the albuminous 
matter of the milk tends to throw down some of the tannic acid of the 
tea in an insoluble form. Sugar, on the other hand, does not in any way 
increase and it may detract from the healthfulness of the beverage. It 
does increase its nutritive value. 



VAIUETIES OF BEVERAGES 545 

Amount of Tka Consumed. — It is eHtiiimted that the amount of tea 
used in one year per capita in the United States is one pound, while in 
England it is six pounds and in Australia seven pounds. The consump- 
tion of this more or less innocrent stinnilating leverage increases with 
the world's population and exceeds 2,,'3()(),0()(),()()() pounds a year. In the 
year 1912 there was imported into the United States 98,700,241 pounds, 
nearly one pound for each inhahitiint. Tea tasting has become a highly 
perfected art. Tea blenders employ high-salaried men to determine the 
liavor, aroma, body and strength of infusions of different varieties of tea. 

COFFEE.— Coifee, the fruit of Coffea arabica, natural order of RubiaceWf 
is a native of Arabia and Abyssinia, but is grown extensively in many 
tropical countries (14). Coifee has been used in Abyssinia from time 
immemorial, but as a beverage it has been traced to the Persians, who 
began its use in 875 a. d. 

The genus coffea comprises a number of species, perhaps thirty, but 
the Coffea arahica is the variety most highly prized and which possesses 
most valuable properties. The seeds of Coffea mauritiana, prepared in 
the same way as Coffea arahica, are bitter and slightly emetic 

The Coffea arahica tree, if grown in a wild state, attains a height of 
fifteen to twenty-five feet, with few branches; in cultivation it is seldom 
allowed to become more than ten or twelve feet high and is made to 
assume a sort of pyramidal form, with horizontal branches almost from 
the ground. The leaves are evergreen and leathery; the flowers are 
small, fragrant and snow white. The whole appearance of the tree is 
pleasing. The fruit, w^hen ripe, is a dark, scarlet colored, fleshy berry 
about the size of a cherry, containing two seeds or beans in each berry. 
These seeds, commonly termed "coffee beans," are horn-like and hard. 
A prolific bearing tree will usually produce a pound of coffee beans. 

The coffee trees begin to bear when three to five years old and usually 
produce good crops for the next twenty years. They are raised from seeds 
planted in nurseries. When eighteen months old the "^slips" are trans- 
ferred to the coffee plantation in rows eight to ten feet apart and the same 
distance between. The coffee tree continues flowering for about eight 
months in the year, so that its beans are of uneven ripeness; in Brazil 
and the West Indies three gatherings are made annually. 

The beans are placed on mats on large floors, especially constructed 
for the purpose, where they are dried by the sun's rays, being frequently 
turned to permit the full effect of the heat to reach all sides of the bean. 
When thoroughly dried they are passed between large rollers to remove 



646 BEVEEAGES 

the dried pulp of the bean and the membrane which encloses the beans 
themselves, and the coffee is afterwards freed from impurities by win- 
nowing, filled into bags and transferred to seaports for shipment. 

The kinds or varieties of coffee best known to commerce are Mocha 
fl*6m Abyssinia ; Mysore from East India, Java and Ceylon ; Jamaica 
flfbm West Indies, St. Domingo, Cuba and E^ew Granada. Brazilian 
<»offee comes from Bio Janeiro and Santos and from Colombia. 

Mocha Coffee. — The Mocha coffee brews the finest cup of coffee in 
the world, but it is a question if the genuine Mocha ever reaches either 
the United States or England. However, a large amount of so-called 
Mocha, which is not to be compared to the genuine Mocha, comes from 
Guatemala and other countries. Palgrave(15) says that only a very small 
portion of the coffee grown in Arabia ever arrives in Europe: 

Arabia itself, with Syria and Egypt, consumes two-thirds and the remainder 
is absorbed by Turkish and Armenian esophagi. Nor do these last get their 
share of the best or purest. Before reaching the harbors of Jaffa, Beyrouth or 
Alexandria, the Mochan bales are opened, sifted and resifted, even while in tran- 
sit. All of the good Mocha coffee beans worth roasting and pounding are care- 
fully picked out by experienced fingers. Only the faulty, flattened, whitish beans 
go abroad for shipping. So constant is this selecting process that a gradation as 
regular as the degrees on a map may be observed in Mocha — that is, genuine 
Yemen — coffee, even within the limits of Arabia itself. As it is transported from 
mart to mart, it is sifted time after time. As it passes from hand to hand, the 
genuine Mocha is diminished, and substitution occurs, until that which actually 
leaves the port, marked "Mocha," for Europe and the West, is often no more 
like the offspring of the Yemen plant than the logwood preparations of a Lon- 
don fourth-rate wine-seller resemble the pure libations of an Oporto vineyard. 

Mysore Coffee. — The Mysore coffee of East India yields a strong, 
clean liquor of fine flavor. Much of this grade also comes from Java and 
Ceylon. Speaking of the East Indian varieties, Palgrave says: 

This class supplies almost all the coffee drinkers from Darfah to Basrah and 
thence to Bagdad and Mosoul; Arabs, Persians, Turks and Kurds have no other 
beverage. To one accustomed to what the Yemen supplies, the Indian variety is 
tolerable, or even agreeable. But for one freshly arrived from Nejed or Kaseem 
it is hardly potable. 



Java Coffee. — Java coffee beans are large and oblong; in color they 
vary from pale yellow or green to whitish-grey; they produce a strong, 
clear beverage of smooth flavor and fair body. 



VARIETIES OF BEVEUAGES 547 

Ceylon Coffee. — The Ceylon plantation coffee bean is of a pale 
greenish tint and yields a clear beverage full-Havored with good body. 
This coffee is used largely for blending. 

Jamaica Coffee. — Jamaica <'offee from the WchI Indies lias a me- 
dium size bean of a greyish-blue color, with shades of bluish-green, yel- 
lowish-green, or even yellow, of various quality. The finest Jamaica 
Blue ^lountaiu coffee rivals the ^fysorc plantation product in flavor, 
body, odor and agrccableness of the l)cvcrage. 

Brazilian Coffee. — Brazilian coffee from Rio Janeiro and Santos, 
South America, is often sold as Mocha and Java. It yields a liquor of 
good flavor and body. Palgrave says: 

American coffee holds, in the opinion of all orientals, the very last rank. The 
deterioration of this product in the New World from what it is in the Old is no 
less remarkable than that which occurs in rice and tea and is of an ambiguous 
character. 

Roasting of Coffee. — In order to prepare a good beverage from 
the coffee bean it must first be roasted and, as with tea, care is necessary 
in the application of the requisite heat to develop the coffee flavor. As a 
preliminary for roasting, all the light materials, such as sticks, dust and 
cliaff, must be removed. After roasting the coffee is drawn upward by 
a current of air, leaving behind the heavy refuse. The roasting may 
be done in a small way in the kitchen with each pound as purchased, but 
it is more uniformly done on a large scale by the coffee houses, by means 
of machinery especially constructed for this purpose. This process re- 
quires much skill. If insufficiently roasted, the product will lack aroma 
and flavor, and if it is over-roasted, the liquor will be bitter and acrid. 
The usual temperature for roasting coffee is just a little above the boil- 
ing point of water. However, each grade of coffee or blend requires dif- 
ferent treatment. No definite directions can be given for the process. 

During the roasting the berry swells from the formation of gas in the 
interior. Twelve to twenty per cent of moisture by weight is driven off. 
There is also a loss of organic matter, including 10 per cent of fat and 
21 per cent of caffein. If the coffee is roasted too long, the destruction 
of caffein is greater and the liquor will have a burnt or acid taste, the 
cellular elements containing albumin rupture. Sugar is lost by transfor- 
mation, and some of the starch is transformed into dextrin. The aroma is 
developed by the production of caffeol. Carbonic, palmitic and acetic 
acids are driven off together with pryttol, hydroquinon and methylamin. 



548 



BEVERAGES 



Composition of Coffees. — The following table shows graphically 
the composition of various specimens of coffee : 

COMPOSITION OF COFFEE— PERCENTAGES (16) 





c3 

1 

g 

o 


il 

4S 


4 


2_ 

•1^ 


1 

6 


1 

1 


1 


Gum. Sugar, etc 


22.60 

.64 

21.79 

23.10 

29.90 

4.10 

2.13 

.42 


25.30 

1.43 

14.76 

22.70 

33.80 

3.80 

1.87 

.33 


23.80 
1.33 
14.87 
20.90 
36.00 
4.00 

"!27 


27.40 
1.14 
15.97 
20.90 
32.50 
4.50 

"!51 


20.60 
1.18 
21.12 
21.10 
33.00 
4.90 

"!46 


25.80 
.88 
18.80 
20.70 
31.90 
4.30 

"!60 


24.40 


Caffein 


1.01 


Fat 


17.00 


Tannic, Caffeo-tannic Acid 
Cellulose 


19.50 
36.40 


Ash 




Potash....... 

Phosphoric Acid. . . . 










The albuminoid, albumin-proteoses, fat and cellulose form the hard 
portion of the bean and together make a total of half its weight. The 
mineral salts consist of potassium carbonate, phosphate and smaller quan- 
tities of magnesium and calcium. 

Cajfeone or caffeol (CgHioOa) imparts a characteristic flavor and 
aroma to roasted coffee and is its principal aromatic substance. It is 
formed during the roasting process and is a brown oily liquid, a single 
drop of which will fill a room with the odor of coffee. A trace gives the 
characteristic aroma to a quart of water. Being volatile, some of this 
substance is lost by over-roasting the beans. Caffein (C8Hio^402) is the 
substance which contributes to coffee its chief physiological activity. It 
acts on the brain as a stimulant and is identical with thein in tea. The 
average proportion in all commercial varieties is only . one-half per cent. 
This is only one-third of the active principle contained in tea, but coffee 
contains more body from the presence of dextrin, saccharin and coloring 
matters than is contained in the corresponding infusion of tea. Hutchison 
determined that a cupful of good coffee, made from two ounces of freshly 
roasted and ground coffee to a pint of water, contained nearly two grains 
of caffein and three and a quarter grains of tannin. He also found a 
cupful of tea to have from 0.Y3 to 1.21 grains of caffein and 0.89 to 4.2 
grains of tannin. Therefore, a cup of cafe noir contains more caffein 
than a cup of tea of the same size, and the caffein in a cup of cafe au lait 
corresponds to the amount of caffein in an ordinary cup of tea. 



VARIETIES OF BEVEUAGES 



549 



The table given below from Hutchison (17) gives tlie composition of 
coffee before and after roasting: 

COMPOSITION OF RAW AND ROASTED COFFEE 





Mocha 


East Indian 


Component Constituents 


Raw 


Roasted 


Raw 


Roasted 


Caflfein 


1.08 
9.55 
8.46 

6.90 

12.60 

9.87 

0.87 

37.95 
3.74 
8.98 


0.82 
0.43 
4.74 

14.14 

13.59 

11.23 

1.24 

48.62 
4.56 
0.63 


1.11 
8.90 
9.58 

4.31 

11.81 

11.23 

0.84 

38.6 
3.98 
9.64 


1 05 


Saccharin Matter 


041 


Caflfeic Acids 


4 52 


Alcoholic Extract (nitrogenous and 
coloring matters) 


12.67 


Fat and Oil 


13 41 


Legumin 


13.13 


Dextrin 


1.38 


Cellulose and Insoluble Coloring Mat- 
ter 


47.42 


Ash 


4.88 


Moisture 


1.13 







Preparation of Coffee for Drinking. — With an understanding 
of the production and handling of the coifee bean, a knowledge of the 
better varieties and the nature of their chemical constituents, it is evident 
that in the preparation of the beverage an effort should be made to retain 
as much as possible of the volatile oil, caffein and nutrient constituents 
and at the same time to eliminate the tannin. 

There are many methods of making coffee. We shall only refer to 
three, percolation, infxision and decoction. Coffee making is an art 
Someone has said the secret of making good coffee is to make it strong 
and to serve it hot. The author believes that in this country the failure 
to have good coffee is due to the fact that not enough ground coffee is 
used and that it is improperly made. Two ounces to the pint is the 
smallest proportion which will produce anything like good results. It is 
also important that the coffee should be freshly roasted, for its fragrance 
is quickly dissipated on keeping. In roasting, if one would secure the 
best results, the beans should be even in size to insure equal roasting. 
For this reason, blending should be done after roasting and not before. In 
order to secure the best coffee it should be roasted in the home, ground 
while still warm and immediately put into the coffee pot Care should 
be taken to see that the coffee grinder is quite clean, for coffee left from 



550 BEVERAGES 

a previous grinding may spoil the result. The finer the coffee is ground 
the better. 

The water for making coffee should be neither too hard nor too 
soft. The same general directions pertaining to water as pointed out 
in tea making, applies also to coffee making. 

Percolation is a process in which boiling water is poured over and 
allowed to percolate through finely ground coffee which dissolves from 
11 to 15 per cent of the coffee, instead of 20 per cent as in other methods. 
This is the French method, and many patterns of percolators have been 
devised for coffee making. 

The Vienna method of percolating coffee is a somewhat similar proc- 
ess, except that steam and hot water pass up through the coffee, which is 
held in a strainer above the water. This method produces a beverage 
superior to the French percolated coffee. 

In the Southern United States a beverage is produced from coffee 
called the southern drip, which is made by packing finely ground coffee 
in the top of a French coffee pot ; a little boiling water is poured over 
this and percolated very slowly through the coffee; then a little more 
water is poured over it, repeating the operation for five minutes. This 
process gives a very strong coffee. The black cafe noir of the French 
is made by the filtration method. Cafe au lait is made in the same way 
and served with hot milk, usually three parts milk to one of coffee. 

Infusion is the common method of making coffee in the United States 
and England. Freshly roasted, finely ground coffee is used in the pro- 
portion of one to two ounces to a pint of water. The water should not 
be too hard. It should be allowed to boil tumultuously for a moment or 
two before it is poured over the coffee. Then the mixture should be al- 
lowed to boil for four or five minutes and should be served as soon as the 
grounds settle. In order to secure quick settling of coffee grounds, 
washed eggshells or little egg albumin may be mixed with the coffee or 
a little cold water may be added to the ground coffee before the process 
of infusion begins. 

If sugar and cream are to be used, they should be placed in the cup 
before the coffee is poured. If good coffee is to be obtained, the pot 
should be of tin or aluminium. This should be scalded thoroughly each 
time before using and the coffee poured into a porcelain or earthenware 
vessel as soon as it is made. Coffee should never be made in a pot in 
which the tin, from long use, is corroded. This will injure the flavor 
of the beverage. It has been found that soft water extracts more of the 
constituents from the coffee bean than does hard water. 



VAKIETIES OF BEVERAGES 661 

Decoction is the method employed in making Turkish coffee. The 
requisite amount of ground coiTee is placed in a small coffee pot, cold 
water is added, and this is brought to the lx)iliiig point. It is then imme- 
diately served without settling. The Turk takes his (5offee without sugar 
or cream, and drinks the grounds as well as the liquid. This method is 
largely used in nuiking coffee in Oriental countries. 

Adultekation of Coffee. — Coffee is adulterated chiefly with 
chickory, but many other substances are used, such as dandelion roots, 
acorns, wheat, rye, peas, beans, the seeds of lupin, Kwust lx?ans, dates and 
figs, also turnips, dandelion cabbages, burnt sugar and other coloring 
agents, none of which are deleterious but are very poor substitutes for 
coffee. 

Substitutes for Coffee. — Many substances have been used as sub- 
stitutes for coffee. Sometimes the product offered consists wholly of 
chickory, or of roasted malt, or of dry and roasted figs. The use of 
roasted cereals as substitutes for coffee is far less common than formerly. 

Coffee Extracts and Essences. — Coffee extracts and essences are 
usually concentrated infusions made by digesting coffee and chickory 
with water in a percolator. The liquid is evaporated in a vacuum and 
mixed with caramel. A common formula is four parts of coffee, two 
parts of chickory and one part of caramel. Coffee extract is a con- 
venient form for the rapid preparation of the beverage, but as a rule 
such liquors lack the pleasing aroma of good coffee. 

Annual Coffee Crop. — The annual coffee crop of the world is about 
1,920,000,000 pounds, valued at over $200,000,000. Brazil alone pro- 
duces 1,200,000,000 pounds. The United States is the greatest consumer 
of coffee in the world; the average consumption is about twelve pounds 
per capita each year. In Holland the consumption is fourteen pounds, 
in Germany six pounds, in Great Britain, Australia and Canada only 
one pound. 

COCOA.— Cocoa is made from the seeds of Theohroma cacao, natural 
order of Sterculiacece. The tree is a native of tropical America and 
grows principally in the warmer parts of Brazil, Guiana and Central 
America. There are from fifteen to twenty species of the cacao tree, all 
belonging to tropical America. The common cacao tree grows wild in 
the valleys of the Amazon and Orinoco rivers. Some authorities allege 
that both the wild and cultivated trees were growing all over that stretch 
of country from Panama to Guatemala at the time of the discovery of 
America. 



552 BEVEEAGES 

The knowledge of this tree was brought to Europe in 1519 by Eer- 
nando Cortez, who found it growing in Mexico, where its cultivation had 
been carried on for many centuries. The Mexican name for the plant 
was "cacao." The name theobroma (food for the gods) was first applied 
by the botanist Linnaeus. 

The cacao seeds may be sown in the field or the plants may be first 
started in the nursery and transplanted to the plantation. When the tree 
is found growing wild in the forest it is usually in some shaded spot, and 
in imitation of this habit, on cacao plantations the banana or coral tree 
is grown at the same time to furnish shade and protection to the cacao. 
The cacao tree begins bearing after the fifth or sixth year and may con- 
tinue prolific for fifty years. It gTows from twelve to twenty feet in 
height, with a trunk of five to eight inches in diameter. The blossoms 
are borne not only on the stems, but also on the thicker branches. The 
fruit is picked as it ripens, throughout the entire year. 

The fruit of the cacao tree is a cucumber-shaped pod somewhat taper- 
ing at both ends and corrugated along the sides. It is from seven to 
twelve inches long and three or more inches in thickness. It contains 
a pulp in which are embedded a number of beans the size of haricot 
beans. It is from these beans that cocoa and chocolate are made. The 
pods are removed from the trees by the aid of pruning knives and piled 
in heaps under the trees. The cacao beans are placed on platforms in 
the sun for three or four days, and are turned occasionally to insure 
thorough drying. They are next transferred to the "sweating house," 
where a kind of fermentation takes place, the temperature rising to 
140° E. ; next they are placed in boxes or barrels, tightly covered with 
plantain leaves and stored in a close room from four to seven days. Here 
the fermentation continues developing the aroma and flavor so highly 
prized in chocolate. 

Treatment of Cacao Beans. — ^A satisfactory beverage cannot be 
made from tea or coffee until they are subjected to special forms or proc- 
esses of treatment. So it is necessary, in order to prepare an inviting 
drink from the cacao beans, to open up their tissues in order to render 
their constituents more easily capable of emulsion and suspension in 
water or milk. "Soluble cocoa" prepared by the Dutch method consists 
in treating the powder from the roasted beans, either with or without the 
removal of some of the fat, with some alkali such as potassium or sodium 
carbonate. In the German method ammonia or ammonium carbonate is 
used. Treatment with an alkali is not favorably looked upon. The 
United States Department of Agriculture considers the term "soluble" 



VARIETIES OF BEVERAGES 553 

as applied to cocoa so treated a misnomer, as ii«» inorti of tlie c<x!oa is 
made soluble than by any other process. 

The fresh beans have a crimson color, a sonicwliat oily and unpleas- 
ant taste. The process of fermentation drives ull" some of the moisture 
and COo; the color changes from crimson to dark brown, and the dis- 
agreeable taste and bitter flavor are lost with the development of the 
aroma and flavor so hij^lily prized by chwolate connoisseurs. The lx;an4 
are next removed from the boxes or barrels and spread out to be picked 
over, to remove any adherent pulp or other foreign matter, then spread 
out on trays and covered with red earth for a day to complete the fer- 
mentation. The red earth absorbs any adherent moisture and gives the 
beans a uniform red color. After the last process, "rubbing," they are 
spread upon trays and dried in the sun. 

The next process is roasting, which further develops the flavor and 
removes the astringent taste and also permits the ready removal of the 
shells. 

In the after part of the manufacture of cocoa, the beans are roasted 
either by direct heat over a coke fire, or dried by the indirect heat of 
superheated high pressure steam; they thus become hard and brittle. 
They are next passed through a machine which cracks the hard, thin skin 
or husk. The latter is removed by winnowing. Finally, they are nibbed 
again and spread on trays to dry in the sun, care being exercised to 
prevent shriveling. 

The shells are called "cacao shells," and in the cheaper shops a bever- 
age is made from these "cacao shells." They contain very little of the 
cacao substance except the flavor. 

When the beans are cracked, the germ is removed. The cracked or 
broken bean is called "cacao nibs." This is the purest form of cocoa. 
From these nibs, also, a beverage is produced by prolonged boiling. 

Usually the cacao nibs are ground between hot rollers. The heat 
breaks down the thin walled polygonal cells, dissolves out some of the 
fat and reduces the mass to a semi-fluid, pasty condition. A considerable 
part of the fat is now removed by hydraulic pressure ; the remainder of 
the material is run into moulds and forms what is commercially known 
as "flake cocoa." This differs from the cacao nibs in that it contains very 

little fat. 

Sometimes the cocoa while fresh from the press and in a soft and 
plastic condition is mixed with starch and sugar and is known, commer- 
cially as "Rock Cocoa." Of these numerous varieties of cocoa "Caracas 

Cocoa" is thought to be the best. 



554 



BEVERAGES 



Composition of Cocoas. — The composition of the special varieties 
of commercial cocoas is given in the table below from Bell : 

COMPOSITION OF COMMERCIAL COCOAS— PERCENTAGES 





Fresh 




Flake 


Rock 


Prepared 


Cocoa- 




Beans 


Nibs 


Cocoa 


Cocoa 


Cocoa 


tina 




(Shelled) 












Moisture 


7.6 


2.6 


5.5 


2.6 


5.0 


3.5 


Fat 


49.9 


51.8 


28.2 


22.6 


24.9 


24.0 


Added starch 


nil 


nil 


nil 


17.6 


19.2 


nil 


Added cane sugar.. . 


nil 


nil 


nil 


32.2 


23.0 


nil 


Non fatty cocoa. . . . 


42.5 


45.6 


66.3 


24.8 


27.9 


72.5 



It will be observed that the natural cocoa bean contains from 3G to 55 
per cent of fat. A considerable part of this is removed from the prepared 
cocoas, which only retain from 23 to 33 per cent of fat. The nitrogen 
content in cocoa varies from 1.75 to 2.24 per cent, equivalent of 11 to 14 
per cent protein. 

The proportion of theobromin varies from 1.0 to 2.65 per cent and 
constitutes a little of the non-protein nitrogen. It is the active principle 
of cocoa and is a dimethylxanthin (C7H8N402)2^42)- Its close relation 
to caffein (CgH, 01^402) 3^402) — a trimethylxanthin — is well known. 
Fifty per cent of the nitrogen content of cacao is held to be amid nitro- 
gen and consequently not available in nutrition. 

The following analyses of the chemical constituents of various com- 
mercial cocoas are given in the table below by Ridenour(18) : 

COMPOSITION OF COMMERCIAL VARIETIES OF COCOA— PERCENTAGES 
Roasted and Unroasted Beans 



Source 



Java 


Trini- 
dad 


Ariba 


Caracas 


Roasted 
Trini- 
dad 


Roasted 
Caracas 


45.40 


43.60 


43.30 


36.80 


41.80 


37.60 


1.16 


1.16 


.86 


1.13 


.95 


.76 


9.25 


11.90 


10.10 


10.50 


12.00 


12.30 


1.20 


1.30 


.42 


2.70 


1.40 


1.70 


.51 


.32 


6.37 


1.50 


.28 


.51 


5.10 


4.90 


1.50 


3.80 


5.70 


6.00 


6.10 


5.60 


4.60 


3.20 


5.80 


9.00 


13.80 


13.00 


14.00 


16.30 


19.60 


11.60 


8.90 


8.30 


9.00 


12.70 


5.80 


9.20 


5.10 


6.30 


5.90 


6.60 


2.60 


5.60 


3.30 


3.60 


3.70 


4.30 


3.70 


50.0 



Bahia 



Fat or Butter 
Theobromine. 
Albuminoids . 

Glucose 

Saccharose. . . 

Starch 

Lignin 

Cellulose 

Extractive. . . 

Moisture 

Ash 



42.10 
1.08 
7.50 
1.00 
.51 
7.50 
7.80 

13.80 
8.00 
5.90 
3.60 



VARIKTIES OF BEVERAGES 555 

Starch in cocoa varies from 1.5 to 7.5 per cent; saccharoee from .51 
to 6.37 per cent; glucose from 1.20 to 2.70 per cent; celluloBe, 11.00 to 
16.30 per cent. Tannin, the astringent of cocoa, is different from that 
in tea and coii'ee. The proportion varies from 4 to (J. 7 per cent, and 
averages about 5 per cent. The content of mineral matter in cocoa 
reaches rather a high proportion, amounting to from 2.5 to 4 per cent in 
the raw and from 3.5 to 5 per cent in roasted l)ean8. 

Prepared cocoa is by reason of its composition a nuiriiious food and, 
while not stimulating, it is much more sustaining tban either tea or cof- 
fee. However, in its natural condition it is too rich in fat and slightly 
indigestible. The object of the special treatments, roasting and grinding, 
is to make it more acceptable to the stomach and at the same time to 
reduce the fat content. 

CHOCOLATE.— Chocolate consists of the ground cacao beans "sweated," 
fermented and roasted in a similar way for the preparation of cocoa ; hut 
the ''cocoa nibs" are ground in a heated mill and as much of the fat as 
possible extracted by pressure. The cocoa mass while in this soft plastic 
condition is mixed with 30 to 60 ])er cent of cane sugar, 5 to 10 per 
cent of sweet almond, 1.0 to 1.5 per cent of vanilla, 0.5 per cent of cin- 
namon and 0.2 per cent of oil of cloves. The proportion of sugar and 
flavorings vary to a considerable extent, due to the processes of various 
manufacturers. This constitutes the differences in chocolate. Various 
adulterants are added to cocoa, princi])ally sugar and starch in the cheaper 
gTades. In others, cocoa shells are ground up and added to the product, 
and mineral coloring matter is occasionally found. Plain chocolate 
should contain not less than 45 per cent of cocoa fat. If the fat content 
is below this figure, it means an adulteration. 

A delightful nutritious beverage may be prepared from cocoa or 
chocolate by using either warm water or milk brought to the boiling 
point and the cocoa or chocolate added, two teaspoonsful to each cup of 
milk or water, with the addition of a pinch of sodium chlorid for each 
cup. Two lumps of sugar and cream improve the "body" and flavor. 
The nutritive value of cocoa is greater than that of tea or coffee. A 
breakfast cup of cocoa made as above contains in grams, protein, 3.75 
per cent; fat, 4.75 per cent; sugar, 10.01 per cent; starch, 0.50 per cent; 
theobromin, 0.095 per cent; tannin and dextrin, 3.66 per cent; ash, 0.50 
per cent, and has an energy value of 120 to 125 calories. Chocolate, there- 
fore, by reason of its composition is a nutritious, wholesome beverage. 
While not so stimulating as tea or coffee, it is more sustaining. 

37 



556 BEVERAGES 

KOLA.— Kola or Goora-nut is tlie product of Cola acuminata, an Afri- 
can tree of N. 0. sterculiaceoe. It forms a stimulating beverage and the 
nut is highly prized as a nutrient by the natives of Africa, West Indies 
and Brazil. 

Composition of Kola. — The average composition of ten varieties of 
kola nut (19) is: 

AVERAGE ANALYSIS OF KOLA NUT 

Water 13.50 per cent 

Nitrogen, total 1.53 

Caffein and Theobromine 2.08 

Fatty Bodies 1.35 

Starch 45.40 

Cellulose 7.00 

Tannin 3.79 

Other non nitrogenous Matters 18.21 " 

Mineral Ash 2.90 



The active principle of this nut is kolaniuy a glucosid, developed 
from fermentation under the influence of an enzyme, lacase. After cer- 
tain processes the kola nut is converted into a kola pow^der from which a 
beverage is made by mixing a teaspoonful of the powder with a little 
water and stirring to a paste, then adding a half pint of water and boil- 
ing for five minutes in an open pan. It is then poured into a jug and 
allowed to remain for five minutes to clear. The liquor is then poured 
oif and is ready to serve. Its palatability is increased by the addition 
of sugar and cream. 

Kola increases the power of endurance for mental and physical strain, 
or at least it removes the sense of fatigue after such strain. Its use per- 
mits the body to bear fatigue during prolonged fasting. 

GUARANA. — Brazilian cocoa, or guarana, is obtained from the seeds 
of the Paullinia capana, a tree belonging to the natural order of Sapin- 
dacece, which, according to most botanists, includes the horse chestnut. 
The tree grows abundantly in the province of Amazonas, along the banks 
of the Tapajos, Rio N'egro, etc., as well as in Guiana and Venezuela. It 
is used extensively in Brazil, Guatemala, Costa Rica and other parts of 
South America as a nerve stimulant and restorative and also as a re- 
freshing beverage. According to late reports, 16,000 pounds are annu- 
ally exported from the city of Santarem. 

The fruit, which is about the size of a small walnut, contains five or 
six seeds. These seeds are roasted, and after being pounded, are made 
into a thick paste with water and formed into round or oblong cakes, 



VARIETIES OF BEVERAGES 557 

which are dried in an oven or by the heat of the 8un. The»e are called 
giiarana bread. The cakes are scraped or grated when recpiired for use, 
and the powder produced has a light brown color; an odor faintly roHorn- 
bling roasted coffee and a bitter, astringent taste. 

Composition of Guarana. — It contains, in addition to empyreu- 
matic oil (developed by the process of roasting) and tannic acid, a sub- 
stance called guaranin by Theodore von Martins, but shown by Dr. Sten- 
house to be identical with thein. This alkaloid is stated by Dr. Stenhouso 
to be present to the extent of 5.07 per cent, or according to the results 
of the same observer, to the extent of twice the amount contained in good 
black tea and five times that contained in coffee: the actual figures given 
for tea being 2.13 per cent, and those for coffee 0.8 to 1.0 per cent For 
Paraguay tea the amount mentioned is 1.2.5 per cent. 

The large amount of tannic acid that enters into the composition of 
guarana gives it marked astringent properties, while, owing to the guar- 
anin it contains, it exerts the same kind of effect on the nervous system 
as tea and coffee. 

Therapeutic Use of Guarana. — Guarana is used in South America 
to some extent dietetically, but chiefly therapeutically, as a stomachic and 
febrifuge and as an astringent in catarrhal diarrhea and dysentery. It 
is either eaten with cassava or chocolate, or taken as a drink in sweetened 
water. In the United States it is employed as a nervous stimulant and 
restorative, and attention was directed to it some years ago in France by 
Dr. Gavrelle, who had held the position of physician to Dom Pedro of 
Brazil. 

Alcohol, it is stated, is the only agent which completely extracts 
its active principles. Ether and water only do so imperfectly. A watery 
infusion, therefore, will fail to possess the virtue belonging to guarana. 

Guarana appears, according to Gautier, to have enjoyed a high repute 
in France as a remedy for migraine, or sick headache, and attention 
has been recently directed to its employment for this purpose, in Eng- 
land, by Dr. Wilks. Articles upon the subject may be seen in the 
British Medical Journal for 1872, and another article by Mr. M. C. 
Cooke is to be found in volume one, third series, of the Pharmaceutical 
Journal, p. 221. As far as experience goes, it seems that in some cases 
of sick or nervous headache it is capable of affording the most marked 
relief, while in others it utterly fails to produce any good effect Its 
virtue is, in all probability, due to the guaranin (thein or caffein) it con- 
tains, which is, as already remarked, according to the analysis of Sten- 
house, present in much larger proportions than in either tea or coffee. 



558 BEVERAGES 

Employed for the medicinal purpose above referred to, the quantity gen- 
erally used is about fifteen grains of the powder administered in coffee, 
water or some suitable vehicle. 

COCA.— Coca, the leaves of Eryihroxylum coca, N, 0, Erythroxylacece, 
is included here because of the similarity of its action to that of tea, kola, 
etc. The natives of Peru and Bolivia cultivate this shrub for its leaves. 
It is a very ancient custom with them to chew coca leaves for their aro- 
matic and stimulating properties. The custom has spread beyond the 
regions where the shrub is cultivated, so that at present the annual con- 
sumption of coca leaves in South America is said by Tibbies to exceed one 
hundred million pounds. 

The physiological action from chewing these leaves places them in the 
same class as tea, coffee and kola. However, the principal alkaloid of the 
leaves is different, as they contain cocain (C17H21KO4) and several other 
alkaloids of minor importance. The action of this alkaloid is less exciting 
than the alkaloids of tea or coffee, but its action on the heart is greater. 
The dry leaves of commerce are by no means so active as the green or 
freshly dried leaves. The properties are virtually those of cocain with 
slight astringency and greater stimulation. 

Effect of Caffein in Beverages — The alkaloids of these beverages are 
caffein in tea, coffee and kola; theobromin in cocoa, and cocain in coca. 
Caffein is a brain stimulant and acts chiefly upon the nervous and mus- 
cular systems. Its action increases reflex excitability and shortens the 
time occupied in nervous processes. It stimulates the intellect and re- 
moves languor and drowsiness. This action is so marked in some per- 
sons that they are unable to sleep after drinking a strong cup of coffee 
at night. Wakefulness and increased quickness to respond to stimuli 
result in the ability to perform an increased amount of intellectual work. 
The special action of this alkaloid has given rise to the statement that 
tea and coffee are the beverages for those engaged in mental work. It is 
alleged that they stimulate the spirits, incite thought, clear the perceptive 
faculties and goad the imagination. 

The vital centers also share in the stimulation produced by caffein. 
Following its administration the respiratory movements are deeper and 
more frequent and the heart beats more forcibly and rapidly. It is an 
important aid in combating impending paralysis of these centers in cases 
of coma. 

Nutritive Value of Beverages — Tea and coffee are in no sense food- 
stuffs. Their constituents yield nothing to the tissues in the way of 
building material or potential energy. The nutritive value of a beverage 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF BEVERAGES 669 

from either of these products depends largely upon tlie amount of cream 
and sugar which are added. The two lumps of sugar which most people 
add to an ordinary cup of either tea or coffe<', weigh .*J drams and contain 
11 grams of carbohydrate, whidi yields 4:t calories or units of heat 

DELETERIOUS EFFECTS IN USE OF BEVERAGES.— Habit materially 
weakens the stimulating effects of tea, coffee, etc. At the same time an 
excess of tea is deleterious in its influence u|K)n the nervous system. Com- 
mon symptoms are indigestion, heartburn, flusliing of the face, excessive 
nervousness, irregularity of the heart, palpitation, neuralgia, headache, in- 
somnia, etc. Green tea is more likely to prcKluco this train of symptoms 
than black. The consumption of coffee in excess is not followed by in- 
somnia, but by numbness and loss of power of groups of muscles, pain 
in the back, etc. The tannin in these infusions of either tea or coffee has 
a tendency to disturb digestion. 

The influence of these beverages on salivary and gastric digestion is, 
on the whole, unfavorable. Roberts (20) stated that tea markedly in- 
hibits the conversion of starch into sugar by the saliva, and attributes this 
result to the action of the tannic acid in the infusion. Robertson(21) 
confirms the observation of Roberts as regards the detrimental action of 
tea, and says that coffee exerts a much less detrimental influence and 
cocoa almost none at all. 

The physiological action of tea, coffee and cocoa is due to the volatile 
oil, alkaloids and tannin contained in these beverages. The volatile oil 
is not in the same in each of these substances; neither is their flavor or 
effects the same. 

The oil of tea dilates the blood vessels on the surface, flushes the skin 
with blood and stimulates the sweat glands to increased activity. Its 
action warms the body when it is cool by increasing the circulation 
through the skin; it likewise cools the body when it is warm by causing 
a radiation of heat from its surface with an increased evaporation of 
moisture. The volatile oil of coffer produces more or less contraction of 
the arterioles and capillaries and cools the surface of the body by reducing 
the circulation through the skin. 

MALT LIQUORS(22) 

The manufacture of fermented liquors from malted grain is of great 
antiquity. The discovery of the art of brewing is accredited to Gam- 
brinus, son of Marcus, King of the Germans, who lived 1730 b. c. 
Herodotus gives the ancient Egj'ptians credit for making a fermented 



560 MALT LIQUOKS 

liquor from barley which was only a little inferior to wine. Two cele- 
brated Egyptians living 500 and 700 years b. c. described ale as the 
"wine of barley." Isodorus in the fifth century describes the mode of 
making beer by the ancient Britons, and Ina, King of Wessex, in 680 
A. D. found it necessary to formulate regulations for ale booths. 

Preparation of Malt Liquors. — Malt liquors are beverages prepared 
from an infusion of malt and hops; they are commonly called beer, but 
this is a generic term including ale, beer, stout, porter, etc. There is 
some confusion in the use of these names, for they have not quite the 
same meaning in all parts of the country. In some places "ale" is spoken 
of as a brown beverage, while the darker — black — drinks are termed 
"beers." For a clearer understanding it might simplify matters to con- 
sider "beer" and "ale" as synonymous and to put them in the- class of the 
paler liquors and to speak of the blacker drinks as stouts or porters. 

Germination of Malt. — "Malt is obtained by moistening barley and 
allowing it to germinate in heaps at a moderate and regular temperature. 
During germination important changes take place: the ferment diastase 
appears in the grain and acts upon some of the starch, transforming it 
into dextrin and malt sugar; while part of the proteids, by the action of 
another ferment, are converted into soluble forms." The green malt is 
next dried in a kiln, one hundred parts producing about ninety-two parts 
of dried malt. If the malt is dried at a high temperature the ferments 
exert a more powerful action in the grain, and as a result the beverage 
will be dark, while on the other hand, if the drying be effected at a low 
temperature, the beverage will be a pale color. 

WORTING.— After the barley has germinated, sprouted and been dried, 
it is called malt. The first stage of producing "ale" or "beer" is the 
grinding or crushing of the grain into a coarse powder, so that the malt 
can be mashed. This is accomplished through the addition of water, 
which dissolves and diffuses the saccharin matters out of the malt. The 
starch is thus gelatinized and a sweet liquor, called wort, is formed. The 
diastatic, proteolytic and other enzymes are aided in performing their 
respective functions. 

There are numerous malt substitutes which are often added to the 
wort. They include corn, rice, rye, oats, barley (unmalted), glucose and 
other sugar bodies. There is sufficient diastase in the malt to change to 
sugar considerably more starch than is contained in the malt itself, and 
for this reason these malt substitutes can be used. 

Boiling of the Wort. — The next step in the process is the straining 
off of the wort from the malt and boiling it with hops. The boiling stops 



COMPOSITION OF MALT LIQUORS 561 

any further action of the diastase and extracts from the hops their soluble 
ingredients. Chief among these are tannic acid and certain resinous acids 
of bitter taste. Hutchison dcscrihes hops as "tlie cones or strobiles of the 
Humulus lupulus; they contain 4 per cent of tannin, 1 to 1 J per cent of 
fragrant volatile oil of an alkaloid called lupulin, a hitter principle, and 
a large amount of resin" ; they also contain a substance called "hopein," 
the nature of which has not lx>en fully investiirated, but it seems to have 
properties resembling those of morphia. 

Cooling of the Wort. — The boiled wort is next pumped out and 
rapidly passed over coolers. It is then ready for the addition of yeast 
Great care is taken to employ pure yeast, for many of the diseases of beer, 
as the development of acetic acid poisoning, are due to the contamination 
of wild yeasts. According to Thatcher, "modern brewers consider care- 
ful boiling of the wort an absolute necessity to effect sterilization; but 
they sometimes neglect to prevent contamination during cooling; yet this 
is equally necessary, for germs killed by yeast and present as inert matter 
become food for other germs, which may be introduced during cooling and 
thus render purification useless." 

Fermentation. — After the yeast is added to the wort in vats, the 
fermentation is allowed to proceed under the proper degree of tempera- 
ture. Here again much depends upon the degree of temperature em- 
ployed. Brewers in England favor a high temperature, with the result 
that most of the sugar is broken up and the resulting beer is rich in alco- 
hol. In Germany, low temperatures are employed ; therefore more sugar 
and dextrin are left in the beer, with a lessening of the alcoholic content 
Low fermentation beers also contain more carbonic acid than high fer- 
mentation beers, and are therefore better aerated. 

After fermentation is completed, the yeast which has been carried 
to the surface is skimmed off and the beer is allowed to stand in shallow 
tanks till most of the remaining yeast has settled to the bottom. It is now 
run off into casks, when the second fermentation occurs under the action 
of the small quantity of yeast still contained in the beer, but it is re- 
strained somew^hat by the addition to the cask of an extra quantity of 
hops ; the longer this lasts, the greater is the amount of alcohol produced, 
and if strong beer is desired, it is left in the cask for some months. 

Composition of Malt Liquors. — For the manufacture of bitter pale ale 
the finest and highest dried malt and hops of the best quality are used. 
The alcoholic contents of this beverage is about 6 or 7 per cent In Scotch 
ale, 8 or 9 per cent of alcohol and about 10 per cent of malt extract are 
present In lager beer there is generally present 4 or 5 \ier cent «>f malt 



562 MALT LIQUORS 

extract. The fermentation of Bavarian beer is carried on at a low tem- 
perature and it contains only 2 or 3 per cent of alcohol. The aroma of 
this beer is fine, its taste is rather bitter, with an additional characteristic 
flavor from the containing cask derived largely from the pitch extracted 
from the wood of which the barrels are made. 

The contents of malt liquors has been shown by analysis to consist 
of from 1 to 10 per cent of alcohol; from 4 to 15 per cent of dextrin, 
maltose and cellulose, certain free organic acids, as lactic, gallic, malic 
and acetic; in general, about two cubic inches of free carbonic acid gas 
per fluid ounce of liquor ; mineral salts derived from the malt and water ; 
and certain vegetable matters from the bitter hops, gentian root and 
chiretta used in the manufacture of malt liquors. The aromatic and 
bitter principles employed are harmless when taken in moderation, and 
usually exert a tonic action on the stomach. They serve to stimulate 
the appetite, invigorate the system and so act as agents introducing into 
the body an increased supply of nutriment. This constitutes the chief 
value of malt liquors. 

"PRIMING."— A good many brewers are accustomed to "prime" their 
malt liquors by the addition of some saccharin substance before it is stored 
in casks. The priming substance used is not always the same, but as a 
rule it consists of glucose, which produces a "briskness" rather than 
"sweetness" ; or an invert sugar when the property of palate fullness and 
lusciousness are desired. 

FININGS.— Just before barreling, a solution of isinglass in acetic or 
tartaric acid ("finings") is added to the cask, which soon settles in the 
form of a precipitate, carrying with it any remaining yeast cells and 
other impurities. After bottling, the beer becomes "brisker" than it was 
in the cask, since no gas can escape. Strong beer will keep well in the 
bottle for eighteen months or longer. High priced ales usually contain 
more solid matter, have a higher specific gravity and contain more hops 
than the cheaper grades. A good ordinary bitter ale usually contains 
from 18 to 19 pounds of solids to the barrel, while an ordinary mild ale 
carries only 16 or 17 pounds. A good bitter ale may have as much as 22 
pounds and Bass ale as much as 23 pounds to the barrel of 36 gallons. 

Porter and Stout. — Porter is made with roasted or dark brown 
malt and contains alcohol 5 to 7 per cent and extract of malt 7 or 8 per 
cent; stout is a stronger kind of porter. They are manufactured in the 
same way as beer, with the exception that the malt is first thoroughly 
roasted in cylinders, much as coffee is. This roasting process produces 
some caramel to which the dark color of these beverages is mainly due. 



COMPOSITION OF MALT LIQUORS 



563 



1 



i 



11 

33 



i1 l]|?^ 




ppv 



odododd dd 



11 i§ M 11 ! ! 



? 



piaV 
ouoqdsoqj 



jiiiigg mt'iu a iiii§i§g!§g§ss§g 

odododo ddoo ddd dd dddddddddddddddd 






ddddddd 



iiii m i§ §ips§iiii8i8iig 

dodo odd dd ddoddddddddddddd 



spioaiuinqiY 



o ^4 9 CO CO 00 2S *^ ^ S 



doooooo 



SS2 
ddd 



§1 igslSSiaSSgiSSSS 



dd 



oooooooooooooooe 



nu^xdQ 



s««o « c3 o> M «c w 






5S 



e«<>4de>«e«-^<^ric«e«*^e«e«M«9M 



w 

w 
pq 

o 
S 



asoiiBj^ JO 
awang auijnpa^ 






ass 



cie4ddd — d — — -©«- —— — 



qsy 



« » iC 00 O M -< 
^qOSQ OOO ^ ^ ^ 






i§§ 



li§g§iS3iS^s§ss| 



OOOOOOO OOOO OOO OO OOOOOOOOOOOOOMOO 



{BdiauQ 



>ot^r^Mooo» 

voift lO Ji O O 't5 »ft 

o^OOOOOOO 



boc 



iOOOOOOOCOOOS< 



^toBj^xg 



00 O -^ »C iC »C IN 

vOi-; ■<j; t>. p lO -- M 

^ lO U5 U5 ij< ed o 



loior^'^j' ico'ji «««»o i> « e«5 •«• "C CO CO d "d d "O ad to »6 "O « 



8uinio\ 
Xq loqoojv 



^cot>.Tf «>>:«) woo «*t-q«®»>;oqr».io«--«eo«co 
io»oio«o«o««»o tcui'^jiio »o»o»fl tfji" <:«dr«^r'^r>^dd'*»odoc©idi«tdd 



05 »c ^ ■^ •<}' r^ o» 

^oe>^ lO h- (N o> •* CO 



■»q3ia^ 
Xq loqooiv 



^^.^^lOTf-^ 



eo«oSS ^Sr^ «* wSc^S^rosox'-'JS'iosxJ^?!-^© 
^^eo^ fpn"^ '('CO ^^d«od«o«oeO'*<>d^i»'»''»ib 



X^IABJr) 



80»-iCCQXt^ 
•* r^ ■* o t^ -"i* 

OOOOOOO 



r^^ — IN OOO O:- 

-^TO-^n '»<oo -foo 

OOOO OOO op 



sasiCiBuv 
JO laquin^ 



,c,«^^ot. OOOO- CJ22: 22 l:228c:;?J?5SSS?5SSgSS 



jaqran^yj 
IBuag 



OOOOOOO bo — — — — — — — — — — ?Se^MWC^N!>«M?lS3'5* 

00 x oc 00 X X » xxxx XXX XX xxxxxxxxxxxx X xix 

^ ^ ^ ■'J* ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ T ^ ^ *v ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 




564 



MALT LIQUOKS 



This heating process, by killing the diastase, prevents further production 
of dextrin and sugar in the '^mashing.'' The proportion of solid matter 
in the liquor is often increased by the addition of caramel or of invert 
sugar. German beers are fermented at a lower temperature than English 
or American beers. They contain more dextrins, also, and secondary fer- 
mentation takes place in them to a large extent, with the production of 
much carbonic acid gas. 

The composition of malt liquors has been studied very extensively by 
Crampton(22) of the U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Bulletin ^o. 13, en- 
titled "Fermented Alcoholic Beverages." Crampton, in Table 'No. I, 
page 563, gives the analyses of American malt liquors. 

The more important constituents of these beverages are alcohol, dex- 
trins, sugar, a small amount of soluble nitrogenous matter and vegetable 
acids. Tibbies, in his work on "Foods, Their Origin, Composition and 
Manufacture," gives in Tables II and III analyses of English, German 
and Bavarian beers, ale and porter, taken from the "Hospital," April 24, 
1909: 

Table II 

COMPOSITION OF MALT LIQUORS— PERCENTAGES 





I 
1 


< 




1 




.3 


< 


< 


Authority 


English Beer, mild 

English Beer, bitter 

English Ale and Porter. . . 
Burton Pale Ale 


84.71 

87.42 
89.10 
89.63 


8.45 

6.78 
4.89 
5.25 
5.50 
6.55 
6.24 

3.07 
3.46 
3.21 
3.68 
4.07 
3.70 
3.23 
4.45 

4.34 
2.12 


6.74 

5.42 
6.93 
4.40 
5.42 
8.00 
6.30 

3.14 
4.97 
4.99 
5.61 
7.23 
5.87 
6.61 
7.09 

6.42 
6.61 


.26 

.16 
.53 

!37 

.81 
.49 
.71 

!57 
.40 


5. 

4. 

.84 

"'.44 
.87 
.90 

"6. 
2.04 


77 
22 
.... 

2.92 
4.39 

15" 
3.34 


310 

.900 

'.160 
.116 
.128 
.170 

.120 


.31 
.35 
.36 
.33 
.45 

.10 
.20 
.20 
.22 
.27 

'.36 

.27 

.20 


Lancet, Feb. 16, 
1895 

Leyden 
1 Chittenden 
j and Mendel 


Guinness's Dublin Stout. . 

Oatmeal Stout 

Nourishing Stout 


Non-intoxicating Malt 
Beer 




1 Lancet, 1902, ii. 
1265 


Pilsener Lager Beer 

Bavarian winter Beer 

Bavarian summer Beer. . . 

Munich Bock Beer 

" Hofbrau 


91.15 
91.81 
90.71 

88.72 


Leyden 


" Spatenbrau 

" Lowenbrau 

Burton TiRger Beer 

Danish Beer 


89.49 


Lancet, Feb. 16, 

1895 
Cameron 
Lancet, 1909, ii. 






1265 



COMPOSITION OF MALT LIQUORS 



565 









o 



£ 

i 



iG—n) SPHOQ 



uoi^BnuD^'^V 






-X3Q :8S(4(BI^ 



ppV P^xijI 



ppV ^n^^PA 



ppV I'B^OX 



ppV 
ouondsoqjj 



uaSoj^i^ 



UU(PC8Q 



asoq^I^ 






spi|Og 



Aq loqoo^y 



[ButSuo 



MM M M ^C^ 'm^»-^^C0C0^ ^ ^ 






^S ^ S ^^SS.S^SPSS^SS s ^ 



12$ S R S!33228i2S52S SS !? 



00 »o CO Q ■^ o C5 1>- -^ r>. «r i>- -r 



05 »f 

8 S 



t>. 'ii* "^ QO c; 



iiss 



00 ^ 
CSS C5 

oo 



io "«*< 



-^ QO 00 C'l -N 

^ ^ o ^ o 



O <N Ci 
r>. CO -^ 



si 



o o 



00 r^ Ci — < CI o 
CO CO r^ o o -r 
oooooo 



t^ CI X ^ 

3SSSS 



CO CO 

oo 






"^ "^ -^ CO 

1—1 1— I o o 



r<. OQ r^ X -^ 
t^ t^ -t 

o o o 



^ ^ o 



s 



53 <^ 

00 rH 

i-J 1-J (M' (N 



lO O 00 Q O CO 

05 r^ (N 35 t^ CO 



"^ (N 00 CO 

"^ CO «o o 



COCO 



22 ^ 



'^ CO ^ CO O X 
-^ 00 O CO CO t^ 



»^ '^ '-S >J 

t CO CO o 



T-i(N<MC0r-",-.C4iOtO^ CI ^ 



CO lO 
CO CO 



CO 'rt< 
CO Tji 



O c: CO O C5 <N 

CO "^ CO CO (N M 



O lO O CO 
CI -^ CO CO 



^ 2 



1-1 Oi (M t^ X Q CO CO t^ CO 05 O CO '^ »0 -^ X 

p oqcoQqt>;oqt>^C5(Ciiop(NCi^^ocxco 

lO t-<^ l>^ t>^ CO lO CO lO ^ ■^* ^* ^ CJ '^' CO %f ■^ 



(N(M O"^O00'*QC0iCc0r^C0'^0CtOC5-H 
O CO t^ 1-1 <N 00 (CI CO "^^ O p t^ (N p X ''ij p p 

idio »oioioco"^*co'^*"»^'cococc5»ocococo'^ 



OOi— I t~*t^kq'^i-|px»-j"0»O'<j;t>-X^^p 

O ^' T}J t><; X* CO '^* O CO lO "^' t^ — <' '*' '^ CI CO «p 

coco t>.cocO"^"0"^»oiC'g<"^c;t^Tf'-'5'^'^ 

oo o O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 



^f2 



pqpq 



• 3 




•s 




.m 






^ 


• S 


•s. 


• H 




H 


•§, 









•i 



4 



<j ;5 w <j 



566 MALT LIQUOKS 

Action of Malt Liquors on Digestion. — The action of malt liquors on 
digestion has received considerable study. Hutchison is of the opinion 
that they exert but '^little retarding influence on salivary digestion, and 
any action that they may possess is entirely due to their acidity. Stout 
is twice as acid as beer, and hence has a greater retarding action on the 
digestion of starch by the saliva." The hop extract in beer is inclined to 
induce drowsiness, and by causing a more profuse flow of saliva, rather 
improves than retards salivary digestion. 

Beer, if taken alone, does not remain in the stomach longer than 
water. If taken on an empty stomach, 200 c.c. will be found to have left 
the stomach in about one and a half hours. ''If taken with food, it delays 
the chemical processes of digestion more than the mere amount of alcohol 
which it contains will explain." Hutchison thinks that the extract and 
salts are the contributing causes. It is probable, however, that a tum- 
blerful of good, brisk beer may actually aid digestion by increasing appe- 
tite and stimulating a more abundant secretion of the gastric juice as well 
as stimulating more active movements of the stomach. In persons of weak 
digestion, beer is prone to produce biliousness and has a tendency to act 
as a fat producer. If used in excess it produces obesity and in some cases 
a permanent dilatation of the stomach. In some individuals, all liquors 
are prone to give rise to acidity of the stomach. This may be the result 
of acid fermentation. Again, in other persons, it seems to exert an un- 
favorable influence on the liver, producing dyspeptic symptoms. It is for 
these reasons, among others, that beer is not a good beverage for the sed- 
entary individual, unless in very moderate amount. 

Stout and porter are popularly believed to be more digestible. "If it 
be desired to avoid nervousness," says Hutchison, "and to get rid of in- 
somnia, shun tea and coffee and drink stout." 

On account of the extractives present, beer contains more nourishment 
than any other alcoholic beverage. It does not follow from this, however, 
that beer is to be recommended as an economical food, for, as we have 
seen, alcohol is to be regarded as a food only in limited amount. Accord- 
ing to Hutchison, "five liters of good German beer with 5 per cent of ex- 
tract should yield 250 grams of carbohydrate (1,025 calories), which is 
half the total required daily, and in addition 100 to 150 grams of alcohol 
with a fuel value of from 700 to 1,050 calories." 

It has been determined by exhaustive study of the effects of malt 
liquors on the digestive system that, when containing the bitter prin- 
ciple of hops, they act as appetizers, aid digestion and encourage sleep. 



ACTION OF MALT LIQUORS ON DIGESTION 567 

These i)roi)ertie8 make them of value in certain forms of ilyttpepsia and 
debility, especially when induced by disease, overexertion, worry, neu- 
ralgia and the like, 'i'hcir nutritive value depends uiK>n their content of 
saccjiariii and albuminous substances. Althou^li the luodcrute use of 
alcoholic liquors may not be open to very serious objection, it has been 
demonstrated, nevertheless, that all types of work are U'tter accomplished 
without the use of any of these beveruj^es. An excess of malt liquors 
])roduces effects similar to those of other forms of alcohol. Their tendency 
to cause obesity is a matter of connnon knowledge, and the check put by 
them on the oxidation and elimination of the waste matters of the body 
naturally favors the development of gouty conditions and other disorders 
which follow the accumulation in the organism of uric acid and its 
congeners. It must be remembered also that malt litpiors are bulky 
drinks, and indulgence in them introduces a large amount of fluid into 
the circulation. The effort to expel this surplus fluid puts an extra 
strain on the heart, which may be very injurious if that organ is already 
damaged. 

CONSUMPTION OF MALT LIQUORS.— According to the report of the 
United States Census in 1900, the total consumption of such alcoholic 
beverages was in excess of 1,332,000,000 gallons. Three years later it had 
passed the 1,600,000,000 mark. In 1006 it rose to more than 1,800,- 
000,000 gallons. In 1907 the total consumption had reached 2,130,000,- 
000 gallons. Startling as these figures are, they are surpassed by the 
records of European countries. France leads the list with an annual 
consumption of 35 gallons per capita; Great Britain, in 1903, had a con- 
sumption of more than 30 gallons per capita, while in the United States 
the amount is 20 gallons per capita. 

Low Alcoholic Beverages — Low alcoholic beverages were formerly 
produced by making a second brew of the gi*ains after sparging. The 
liquid so produced was fermented separately and yielded a beverage called 
"small beer" which contained some saccharin material and from 1.25 to 
2 per cent alcohol. It was a refreshing beverage, containing just enough 
alcohol to keep it for a time and quite strong enough to satisfy the craving 
of many people without producing alcoholism. Such beer might properly 
be termed "weak lager beer." This variety of beer unfortunately is not 
now produced, as the "smalls" are added to the "sweet-wort" and the en- 
tire ale is fermented at once. 

Genuine malt liquors can be produced of low alcoholic strength (2 
per cent alcohol) ; these are practically non-intoxicating. Such beers are 
now universally made as a result of prohibition laws. These low alco- 



568 STIMULANTS 

holic beers have a flavor like that of lager beer and are agreeable. They 
contain a fair amount of malt extract and are satisfactory. 

Herb Beers. — Herb beers are made from a decoction of herbs, nettles 
and other green or dried herbs, saccharin malt and cane sugar. The 
liquor is fermented with yeast. Herb beers should not contain more than 
from 1 to 2 per cent of alcohol. 

GINGER BEER.— Ginger beer or stone ginger is made after a variety 
of formulas. When made on a large scale, the water is boiled in a steam 
jacket pan; from this it is run into a mash tub with ginger. After the 
ginger has been infused for one or two hours in a settling vat, the liquid 
is run off and citric or tartaric acid, sugar or honey are added and the 
mixture allowed to ferment. The honey gives a peculiar softness to the 
beverage and hastens fermentation. Gum is sometimes added to give 
body, and it may be clarified by using isinglass. It is bottled on the fifth 
day, and becomes well aerated in about ten to fourteen days. It usually 
contains 0.75 to 1.05 per cent alcohol. 

SPRUCE BEER.— Spruce beer is a fermented liquor made from the 
leaves and small branches of the Norwegian spruce, fir, or from the es- 
sence of spruce. There are two kinds of spruce beer, brown and white. 
The former is made with molasses and the latter with white sugar. The 
liquid is fermented with yeast. The proportion of alcohol varies from 
7 to 16 per cent. Spruce beer is an agreeable and wholesome beverage 
possessing tonic and antiscorbutic properties. 

STIMULANTS (23) 

Stimulant is a term which is used with various meanings when ap- 
plied to medicinal agents. The definition of the Latin word stimulus is 
to goad, to whip up, to spur on. Alcoholic preparations, which are true 
narcotics, are often referred to as "stimulants," and the same expression 
is employed to designate any agent which excites, even briefly, the organic 
action of any part of the human system. All excessive stimulation reacts 
into depression, and most of the agents which stimulate the nerve centers 
first will depress and finally paralyze them. In many cases the action is 
one of progressive stimulation primarily and progressive paralysis after- 
wards, afl^ecting the centers in the inverse order of their development, the 
highest or latest developed centers being afl^ected first, the lowest or oldest 
ones last. Generally speaking, stimulants act directly upon either the 
nervous system or upon the circulatory organs. Alcohol afi^ects the latter 
more than the former. It is questionable if alcohol may be regarded as a 



ALCOHOL 569 

nerve stimulant. Brain activity coincident with Uie administration of 
alcohol is no doubt due to an increased How of blood through the brain 
rather than any direct action upon the cerebral cellH. 

Alcohol. — Ah'ohol is produced by the fermentation of sugar with yeast 
according to the well-known eqtnition : 

CeH,20e=2C02+2C,II,()ll 

(sugar) (carlxmic (alcohol) 
acid) 

The principal constituent of all ah-oholic l)everage8 is ethyl alcohol 
(CaHgO), each molecule of which is composed of two atoms of carbon, 
six atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen. The respective propor- 
tions of these ingredients by weight are: carlx)n 52.17 parti*, hydrogen 
13.04 parts and oxygen 34.7J) parts per hundred. Absolute alcohol is 
somewhat difficult to procure, since it is hydroscopic and rapidly becomes 
diluted with water when exposed to a damp atmosphere. Ethyl alcohol, 
C^HyO, or ethyl hydroxid, CsH^OH, is a transparent, colorless, mobile 
fluid of pleasant ethereal odor, mixing with water in all proportions. It 
boils at 78° C. (172.4° F.) and burns with a white flame. The specific 
gravity is 0.795. It is only used for technical* purposes. WHiat is known 
as pure spirit of ivine consists of 03 to 95 per cent of absolute alcohol and 
5 to 7 per cent of water. The small proportion of water causes it to bum 
Avith a blue flame. 

The glucose in fruits when fermented is converted directly into alco- 
hol, whereas the starches in grains and potatoes, etc., are converted into 
dextrin and maltose. Then by the aid of diastBtic ferments, before alco- 
holic fermentation can take place, they are converted into glucose and 
after a certain period of fermentation are distilled, producing alcoholic 
beverages. Glucose, the formula of which is CeHigO^, is transformed 
into alcohol by a process of fermentation, through which each of its com- 
plex molecules loses two atoms of carbon, four atoms of oxygen (consti- 
tuting two molecules of carbon dioxid, COo), the portion remaining con- 
stituting two molecules of alcohol 2C2H5OH. 

The special characters of difl^erent alcoholic beverages depend to a 
large extent upon the particular kind of sugar and yeast concerned in 
the fermentation. It is also interesting to know that the process of fei^ 
mentation as carried on in the manufacture of alcoholic drinks is not 
such a simple process as the above equation might induce one to believe. 
In the process of fermentation and distillation, several by-products, the 



570 STIMULANTS 

chief of which are methyl alcohol, carbon oxid gas and glycerin, are pro- 
duced as well as alcohol. The nature and amount of these profoundly 
influence the character of the resulting beverage. It remains true of all 
alcoholic drinks that the principal constituent by which they affect the 
nutrition of the body is due to ethyl alcohol. It is therefore of mucU 
importance to study minutely the effects of alcohol on the body, for upon 
the results of such study our opinion as to the value or detriment of alco- 
holic drinks, both in health and disease, may be correctly estimated. 

LOCAL EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL.— The local eifects of alcohol are those 
of a chemical irritant. If its evaporation is prevented, as by covering 
with a watch glass or a piece of rubber, or if the alcohol is rubbed in, it 
absorbs water from the tissues and hardens them. It coagulates the albu- 
min of the part, but the coagulum is soon redissolved by the fluids of the 
tissues. It then dilates the vessels of the derma, producing a sensation 
of warmth upon the skin. If some strong spirit, such as whisky or 
brandy, is taken into the mouth, a sensation of burning is produced, owing 
to the irritation of the nerve endings, and by and by the mucous mem- 
brane becomes somewhat corrugated and whitened by reason of the re- 
moval of water from its surface cells and the coagulation of their 
protoplasm. ^ 

Internally, in moderate* doses, alcohol acts briefly as. a cerebral, cardiac 
and general stimulant ; in large doses as an anesthetic, intoxicant, deliri- 
ant and finally as a narcotic poison and paralyzant of the nerve centers. 

EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL UPON THE HEART.— As a cardiac stimulant, 
alcohol should be given when heart failure is impending. The radial 
pulse is not always a good indication of the strength of the heart. An 
incompressible pulse, due to obstruction of contracted arteries, may give 
the impression of a full, strong pulse, whereas the heart may be very 
weak. Upon auscultation, however, it can be determined exactly when 
alcohol should be given. In many cases of fever, only one sound of the 
heart can be heard, the first sound being so weak as not to be audible. 
This is a condition where there is great danger of collapse, for the first 
sound coincides with the systole and in proportion to its feebleness 
there will be weakness in the systolic contraction. At first the sound may 
be muffled, and as the contractions become more feeble it can only be 
heard by a practised ear. On the other hand, the second sound is due to 
relaxation of the heart. If it relaxes quickly, the sound is more distinct 
than if gradual, and this clearness of the second sound indicates the be- 
ginning of heart failure. Disappearance of the first sound always calls 
for the administration of alcohol. In cardiac failure accompanying acute 



ALCOHOL 571 

disease, unlimited quantities of brandy arc indicated, but stimulants must 
be reserved for the actual time of heart failure. Alcohol is of great value 
for its stiniuhiting elTect upon the spirits in conditions of profound nerv- 
ous exhaustion where there is great depression. It also produces remark- 
ably soothing effects in muscular weakness. 

The stinuihitiiig action of alcohol upon the heart is similar to that 
produced by violent muscular exercise, that is, a greater frequency of 
contraction with an increased force of the heart beat. The pulse is rapid 
and very short; consequently the arterial system is dilated and respira- 
tions increase. This is the main action of alcohol. Just as prolonged 
violent muscular exercise results in exhaustion, so this rapid action of the 
heart, produced by constant doses of alcohol, finally leads to cardiac weak- 
ness. In diseased conditions, however, when the heart is beating rapidly, 
but feebly aud ineffectually, the administration of alcohol often dimin- 
ishes the frequency of the beats, while at the same time, improves its 
force and volume. As long as these effects are maintained in a case of 
acute illness, one is reasonably safe in assuming that alcohol is doing 
good. 

The heart seems to show the stimulating effect of alcohol even before 
the liquid is absorbed, due probably to the action on the gastric nerves 
which are so closely related to those controlling cardiac action. In cer- 
tain cases this reflex action is so marked that the heart ceases to beat 
This phenomenon is not infrequently observed in the sudden death of 
beavy drinkers. Among the numerous investigations conceniing the 
effects of alcohol on the circulatory system, those of Parkes and Wallo- 
wicz are enlightening. They studied a patient who imbibed daily from 
one to seven and one-half ounces of rectified spirits with the effect of 
rise in pulse rate of ten beats to the minute as compared with that in the 
time when alcohol was withheld. However, in accordance with the obser- 
vations of other investigators, this cardiac stimulation was succeeded by 
depression in which the beat was not only slower than normal, but also 
more feeble. 

This after-effect of alcohol is most important, for it points to the 
fact that the temporary stimulation must be followed by depression of 
the heart's action. Alcohol, it would seem, does not afford nutriment for 
the heart, but is merely an agent by which this organ is enabled to make 
temporary use of its reserve strength. The j)hv8ician should learn from 
this data that alcohol must not be given too early in acute diseases, other- 
wise before the crisis is past the patient will have arrived at the state 
in which further stimulation is impossible. 



572 STIMULANTS 

"Much has been written on the action of alcohol on the heart and cir- 
culation, the results of which, however, are far from uniform. Swiento- 
chowski(24) found that after the administration of 25 to 100 c.c. of alco- 
hol of 50 per cent strength the pulse rate is increased, but slows down 
again a little in two or three minutes, without reaching the normal again, 
however, for at least half an hour. For an hour after its administration 
blood pressure is lowered. He found no evidence that it really stimulated 
the heart, but believes that the latter is depressed by alcohol, as are all 
vital functions. Dixon (25), on the other hand, concludes from his ex- 
periments that the first action of alcohol on the heart is a directly stimu- 
lant one. Cabot (26) is convinced from his observations on patients that 
no effect of alcohol upon the heart to increase blood pressure is demon- 
strable, although he does not go so far as to infer that it is useless in dis- 
ease." Abel (27) summarizes the experimental evidence regarding the 
action of alcohol on the vascular apparatus as follows: 

1. Alcohol as such, when introduced into the circulation with the avoidance of 
local irritation, is not a circulatory "stimulant." 

2. Alcohol in moderate quantities — say a pint of wine — has no direct action 
on the heart itself, either in the way of stimulating or depressing. This state- 
ment is based on the results of laboratory experiments extending over short 
periods of time only, and does not imply that it holds for the steady daily use of 
alcohol in this quantity. 

3. In moderate quantities it has no appreciable effect on the blood-pressure. 
When a change in this becomes evident it is always in the direction of a fall. 

4. By virtue of its local action on mucous membranes and on the brain, alco- 
hol is capable of affecting the several parts of the vascular apparatus in such ways 
that the term "circulatory stimulant" may be appHcable. The most frequent of 
these indirect effects is a quickening or slowing of the pulse rate. Such indirect 
influences must not be allowed to hide the true character of alcohol, which is 
always depressant in kind. 

The theory that alcohol is a stimulant has long been held. It was 
commonly believed to stimulate the action of the heart, the muscular sys- 
tem, the digestive system, and even the mental powers. But recent work 
goes to prove that instead of acting as a stimulant, alcohol is ultimately 
depressive in its effects on the body in gCDeral, especially in its relation 
to the higher functions. In other words, alcohol should be grouped with 
the anesthetics and narcotics. 

Effect of Alcohoi, upon Temperature. — Another apparent in- 
consistency in the action of alcohol which is explained by its effects on 
the blood vessels is its influence on the temperature of the body. Alcohol 
is in reality a fuel, and by its oxidation produces heat, just as it does in 



ALCOHOL 573 

a spirit-laiiip. By dilating the surface blood \&m\s it causes more heat 
to be given olf by radiation than its own coinbustiou produces, so that 
the net result is that the toniperature of the Ixxly {» lowered. This only 
seems to occur in an appreciable degree, however, when the alcohol is 
taken in intoxicating doses. On this Atwater remarks: 

The theory that the energy yielded by alcohol is lost by the increased heat- 
radiation, like the theories that alcohol is not oxidized in the body, and that it pro- 
vents normal oxidation of other material was sup^estwi by observed faeta. Tbero 
exists in the minds of the laity the belief, that drinking whiskey or brandy on a 
cold day will "keep out the cold," and the deceptive feeling of warmth produced by 
the flushing of the skin with blood is erroneous. Alcohol does not 'Iceep out the 
cold," but lets out the heat of the body, and consequently the consumption of 
spirits is a very bad means of fortifying one's self to meet a low external tempera- 
ture, as was found out by the Arctic explorers long ago. On the other hand, if 
one has been exposed to cold and the blood has been driven into the interna! vis- 
cera, and is stagnating there and is about to produce congestion, the timely admin- 
istration of alcohol may save the situation by once more bringing about a proper 
distribution of the blood. The proper time, then, to take alcohol is on coming in- 
doors when wet or chilled. Its use should be avoided when going out into a bliz- 
zard, or on a clear frosty morning or a cold drizzling rain. 

There is no doubt that prolonged over-indulgence in alcohol may cauae 
a vascular paralysis which may become permanent, as one often obser^'cs 
in the bloated look and purple nose of a drunkard. In subjects of this 
type, when coming down under an acute illness, the beneficial eflFects 
which are hoped to be obtained from the administration of alcohol are no 
longer manifested. The heart and blood vessels have been so often stimu- 
lated that they will cease to respond to this administration and the pa- 
tient pays the penalty with his life. 

EFFECT OF ALCOHOL UPON MUSCULAR ACTIVITY.— The effect of al- 
cohol on muscular activity has been studied very carefully. The experi- 
ments show that alcohol does not increase the capacity of muscular work 
but distinctly decreases it. Doubtless this assertion may seem contradic- 
tory to the observations of recorded experience of some authorities, but 
the explanation is found in the fact that alcohol really blurs the judg- 
ment. As Voit remarks, "it gives not strength, but, at most, the feeling 
of strength. A man may think he is working faster and better under the 
influence of alcohol than he would otherwise, but rigidly conducted ex- 
periments do not confirm this opinion." "Both science and the experience 
of life," says Dr. John J. Abel, of Johns Hopkins University (28), '*have 
exploded the theory that alcohol gives any persistent increase of muscular 
power. The disappearance of this universal error will greatly reduce the 



k 



574 STIMULANTS 

consumption of alcohol among laboring men. It is well understood by 
all who control large bodies of men engaged in physical labor that alcohol 
and effective work are incompatible." 

According to Abel, alcohol is not a practicable source of energy in the 
performance of physical labor, while on the other hand, Professor Atwater 
is inclined to the view that, when alcohol is burned in the body, the heat 
generated may be directly utilized in the promotion of muscular activity ; 
but he was very careful to state that his experiments only suggested but 
did not prove the conclusion. 

It makes little difference, from a practical viewpoint, which of these 
views is correct, since all observers are practically agreed that alcohol in 
small doses may indeed stimulate muscular activity for a very short period 
of time (twenty or thirty minutes), when the paralyzing action of the 
drug becomes effective and the aggregate amount of v/ork performed is 
found to be less with than without alcohol. 

Dr. A. J. Rasanoff of the New York State Hospital at Kings Park, 
in commenting on experiments carried on by Dr. Schnyder and Professor 
DuBois, draws the following conclusions : 

(a) Unlike an ordinary food, alcohol, when taken in moderate quantity on an 
empty stomach, has two distinct effects on the muscular system — a strength sning 
one and a weakening one. During the first brief stage after it is taken, the strength- 
ening effect predominates, the alcohol probably being utiHzed as a food by the ex- 
hausted body. But no sooner is the first stage over than the weakening effect 
becomes more prominent, the alcohol probably acting injuriously upon the nervous 
system. 

(b) Moderate amounts of alcohol taken with a meal effect a very considerable 
lowering of the capacity for doing muscular work. The widespread notion that 
moderate drinking with meals helps a laborer do his work is false. 

EFFECT OF ALCOHOL ON DIGESTION AND SECRETION.— The effect of 
alcohol on the digestion and secretion is to increase the flow of saliva 
in the mouth from the stimulating effect of the alcoholic beverage. In 
small quantities, alcohol dilates the gastric vessels, reddens the mucous 
membrane of the stomach, produces a sense of warmth and comfort, stimu- 
lates the gastric glands and increases the activity of the gastric move- 
ments. This increased flow of the salivary secretion is, however, of very 
brief duration. Not only is the volume of saliva increased, but also its 
organic and inorganic constituents. 

The effect of alcohol upon the gastric secretion is marked, since the 
quantity of gastric juice, the amount of acids and the total solids is aug- 
mented, not only by the presence of alcoholic beverages in the stomach. 



ALCOHOL 575 

but also iiidircetly through the iiiHueneo of alcohol abuorbod frtmi the 
intestine. This increase in the How of pistric juice may pOHsibly oounter- 
bahinco the lirentor or lesser retanh»ti«.n of tho digeHtivc chanii^eH caused 
by akohoiic beverages. Alcohol tak( n moderately, ininiediatidy Iwfore or 
during meals, promotes the appetJK^ and assists digestion, lcss<?ns the 
eliniination of waste products, causes a subjecrtivo sensation' of heat and 
slightly raises the body temperature. 

The most elaborate and siguiHcaiit series of investigations to test the 
effects of alcohol in this direction were carried out by Professor Chitten- 
den, of Yale(29), working in association with the ''Committee- of F'ifty." 
His results are very definite and convincing, and they mrrolK)rate the 
findings of various other experimentora, notably tliose of Kol)erts in Eng- 
land. A summary of his findings may be expressed as follows: 

Alcohol, taken as proof-spirit or as brandy or whisky, directly stimulates the 
flow of the digestive juices, salivary, stomachic, and pancreatic. But if present 
in sufficient quantity to form more than five per cent of the pastric contents, 
it materially interferes with the digestive action of the gastric juice, the forraation 
of which it has just stimulated. Thus one of its effects tends to counteract the 
other; and the ultimate result will depend upon such factors as the quantity in- 
gested, the rapidity of its absorption and the quality of the gastric juice itself. 

The two antagonistic effects of alcohol on digestion are now pretty 
well understood. Professor Chittenden briefly summarizes his conclu- 
sions as follows : 

The results collectively indicate that the period of gastric digestion does not 
greatly vary under the influence of alcohol or alcoholic beverajres. In some few 
of the experiments the results indicate a slight acceleration of dijjestion in the 
presence of weak alcoholic beverages, while in others stronji: alcoliol retards 
slightly the rate of digestion. Giving due heed, however, to the avoidable errors 
which must of necessity attend this kind of experimentation, we believe that the 
results obtained justify the conclusion that gastric digestion as a whole is not 
materially modified by the introduction of alcoholic fluids with the food. In other 
words, the unquestionable acceleration of prastric secretion which follows the inges- 
tion of alcoholic beverages is, as a rule, counterbalanced by the inhibitors* effect 
of the alcoholic fluids upon the chemical process of gastric digestion, with perhaps 
at times a tendency toward preponderance of inhibitory action. 

Still further experiments were carried on by Dr. Schnyder and Pro- 
fessor DiiBois in order to determine the effect of alcohol on a well-nour- 
ished oro-anism. Under such conditions, if alcohol possesses some action 
besides its nutritive effect, a highly nourished body would not make use 



576 



STIMULANTS 



of the nutrition, but might respond to its other action. Whatever such 
other effect might be, it could be determined as an entity entirely un- 
affected by any other action. Two of their concluding experiments will 
now be described: 

Experiment No. 4 consistied of the same measurements as in the first three 
experiments, carried out at about the same hour of the day, but shortly after a 
good meal without alcohol, the meal consisting of soup, meat, vegetables and 
bread. 

No. 5 consisted in similar measurements, taken shortly after meals during which 
a moderate quantity of alcohol was consumed. The food was the same as in 
experiment No. 4; in addition, 300 cubic centimeters of good Bordeaux wine, con- 
taining 29.4 grams of alcohol, was consumed in the course of the luncheon. Dr. 
Schnyder observes that this is about the quantity referred to as "a good glass of 
wine," considered by many people as a moderate, perfectly harmless, even indis- 
pensable drink. The tabulated results of experiments 4 and 5 follow, each figure 
— as in the first three experiments — ^being an average from ten different single 
experiments on ten separate days: 



WORK DONE— METER— KILOGRAMS 



Period No. 


4 (Food only) 


5 (Food and 
Alcohol) 


Loss of 
Efficiency 


1 . 


7.969 
4.418 
3.652 
3.440 
3.245 
3.215 
3.248 
3.223 
3.233 
3.254 
3.322 
3.282 


7.370 
3.872 
3.373 
3.182 
3.016 
3.136 
2.996 
3.004 
3.076 
2.929 
2.993 
2.922 




2 




3 

4 




5 




6 




7 




8 




9 




10 




11 .. . 




12. . 








Total of 12 Periods. . . 
Total first 5 « ... 
Total last 7 « ... 


45.501 
22.724 

22.777 


41.869 
20.813 
21.056 


8.0% 

8.4% 
7.6% 



A peculiar fact is shown here : while alcohol is a food, the human body will not 
use it as such when it has ample supply of other food. Consequently, the weak- 
ening influence of alcohol, which is here got at by itself, is seen to be at work 
continuously. The total loss of efficiency in the twelve periods is 8 per cent; in 
the last seven periods it is 7.6 per cent; the weakening effect, as might be ex- 
pected, is really great at first. 



ALCOHOL 677 

FOOD VALUE OF ALCOHOL.-Tlie food vulue of ulcohol, according to 
Dr. Frederick Petersen, may be summarized in a ningle aentonce. *'lf 
alcohol is a food, it is a poison food/* In diacuaaing the aubject, Tro- 

fessor Atwuter says; 

The question as to whether alcohol is a food and whether and in what way it 
supplies the body with nutriment have In^en lU'tively (liseusHed for the taut fifty 
years or more. No one doubts that the continued and exeensive use of alcohol in 
injurious to body, mind and eluiraeter. No one qut^stions that in larf^e quantitieH 
it is really a poison. The debatable problem is its effetrta when taken in amall or 
moderate quantities. 



Many competent observers have made corrol)orative experiments prov- 
ing the depressive effect of alcohol upon the muscular system, the result 
of the experiments being widely different in character. Atwater, in a 
remarkable series of experiments, found that the men in his reapiratorv 
cabinet were apparently able to perform much less work under the influ- 
ence of alcohol even when administered in small doses than without it. 
Professor Hodge in a notable series of experiments on dogs furnishes 
some specific data. He tested very carefully the activity and the resist- 
ance to fatigue of dogs that were given alcohol regularly as comparo<l 
with other dogs in the same kennel that received no alcohol. His results 
when summed up showed that the spontaneous activities of dogs under 
the influence of alcohol were 30 per cent less than the dogs in the same 
kennel under normal conditions. The tests made by Hodge, which proved 
the effect of effort and fatigue, were in the pursuit and retrieving of a 
ball thrown repeatedly; the alcoholics developed but little more than half 
of the efficiency of their companions and the evidence of fatigue was very 
much greater in these animals. The dogs in question were not acutely 
intoxicated, but merely suffering from the depressing effects of consider- 
able quantities of alcohol taken day by day. In common parlance, these 
dogs might be termed "habitual heavy drinkers," except they did not 
drink the alcohol voluntarily. 

"The regulation of the dosage of alcohol," says Professor Hodge, "was 
to give as large a dose as possible short of producing noticeable intoxica- 
tion." The animals were able to take such doses as this without becoming 
acutely intoxicated. Such experiments as these tend to reveal alcohol in 
its true light, not only proving the negative of alcohol as a muscle stimu- 
lant, but in a large measure substantiate the opinion of Dr. Abel that 
"alcohol is not a food in the sense in which fats and sarbohydr:'*'-'* -^r^ 



\ 



578 STIMULANTS 

foods/' but it should rather be defined "as an easily oxidizable drug with 
numerous untoward effects which inevitably appear when a certain mini- 
mum dose is exceeded"; it therefore should be classed with the more or 
less dangerous stimulants and narcotics, such as opium, hasheesh, tobacco, 
etc., rather than with truly sustaining foodstuffs. 

Alcohol as a Fat-Sparer. — Alcohol may be termed a 'protoplasm 
poison or anesthetic which is itself easily burnt up in the body. This is 
the key to the proper understanding of its action on metabolism. We 
know from physiological experiments that the greater the quantity of 
carbohydrate and fat which is supplied with protein, the less does the lat- 
ter tend to be wasted in supplying energy and the more of it there is 
available for the higher purpose of keeping the tissues in repair. The fat 
and carbohydrate are sacrificed instead of the protein. This is what 
physiologists mean when they describe fats and carbohydrates as protein 
sparers. Thus the cells of the body may be regarded as being bathed with 
lymph containing in solution particles of protein, fat and carbohydrate, 
and we know from experiments that these are broken down by the cells, 
protein being more easily destroyed than carbohydrate and lastly fat. 
If alcohol gets access to the cell and partially paralyzes or anesthetizes 
it, the cell will lose its power of breaking down these compounds, such 
as fat, with which it has, even in a condition of full activity, difficulty in 
coping. Alcohol then saves fat from combustion; in other words, it is a 
fat-sparer. Experiments have proved, though with greater difficulty, that 
alcohol may be able to spare carbohydrates, but this is exceedingly doubt- 
ful. This action of alcohol on cellular activity is quite in keeping with 
what we know of the effects of other cell poisons. 

Unquestionably alcohol spares fat and in certain instances carbo- 
hydrate. Nevertheless, as in this process, alcohol is itself consumed and 
heat and energy are generated. Hutchison confirms this statement when 
he declares that without doubt alcohol should rank as a food. As demon- 
strated by recent investigations, 7 calories of energy are produced by 
the complete combustion of 1 gram of alcohol in the organism; that is, 
the heat value of 131 grains of alcohol equals that of 100 grams of fat; 
or, in other words, the fuel value of 1 ounce of alcohol and 1 ounce of 
butter are equivalent (about 200 calories). 

Careful study of the work of competent experimenters on the action 
of alcohol clearly proves that alcohol is not as good a source of heat in 
the food as fat, for, as we have already seen, by dilating the surface 
blood vessels, alcohol may cause more heat to be dissipated than it is 
capable of producing. In addition, the combustion of alcohol takes place 



ALCOHOL 579 

rapidly, and the resulting lieat is (piickly dissipate* I, while heat originat- 
ing from fat is produced far more slowly and etpuihly. Then, too, it 
has been shown that aleohol in large quantities produetfS general paralysis 
of eelluiar activity, often to such a (k^gree that there is both a diminution 
of heat i)roduetion and an increased heat loss, ending in a marked h>wer- 
ing of the temperature of the body. Alcohol cannot be unquestitinably 
considered as a useful muscle fond. Even though it nuiy lie oxidiztMl in 
muscular tissue so as to yield energy, any effect of this nature must be 
decidedly offset by the paralyzing effect of alcohol on nerve cells. 

E\en granted that alcohol is a fat-sparer and that it exerts an oxidiz- 
ing effect upon carbohydrate, one is not surprised to learn that its admin- 
istration neither increases nor diminishes the intake of oxygcMi or the out- 
put of carbonic acid. Besides, if the amount of fat or carlxihydrato in 
the diet is sufficient for the needs of the body, alcohol is able to supple- 
ment them by acting as a source of heat. Atwater, in his famous experi- 
ments at the laboratory of the Wesleyan University, found that from one- 
fifth to one-seventh of the total calories of the diet coidd be thus replaced 
by alcohol. This explains the observation of Hannnond, who found that 
Avlien he added alcohol to a diet on which he was losing weight, the loss 
was immediately stopped. 

Dr. Henry Smith Williams(:50), in discussing Atwater's experiments, 
succinctly summarizes the following: 

It appears that alcohol is a food allied in character to the suprar with which it 
has close chemical affinity. If taken in small quantities, ahout 98 per cent of it is 
burned in the body, and the resulting heat is available for the uses of the body. 
But to admit that alcohol may sene as a food is not more equivalent to arguing for 
its use under ordinary conditions than the admission that human flesh may bo 
nutritious is an argument for the practice of cannibalism. 

Professor Atwater cautions the reader that his tables showing the 
nutritive value of alcohol as compared with other foods tell only lialf the 
truth, because they "leave out of account the action of the alcohol as a 
drug, which is not exerted by ordinary food." "When alcohol is taken in 
excessive quantities," he continues, "its action as a drug may far more 
than counterbalance its nutritive effect. Taken habitually in excess it is 
ruinous to both health and character." He specifically advises "people 
in health, and particularly young people," to abstain altogether from 
alcoholic beverages. Similarly Dr. Neumann, Professor of Hygiene in 
the University of Heidelberg, and one of the foremost authorities on the 
subject, concludes a recent article on the food value of alcohol by declar- 



580 STIMULANTS 

ing that "from the standpoint of practical hygiene we have only to wish 
that alcohol should be used as little as possible, because it is an irrational, 
a very dear, and an equally dangerous foodstuff." Develde, another Con- 
tinental authority, points out that "it is more economical to feed one's 
self with fieldfares than with beer or wine." 

Further argument along this line is quite needless, because no one 
seriously pretends to take alcohol in any form merely for its food value. 
At the very best, no alcoholic beverage has the food value of the grain or 
fruit from which it is made. Alcoholic beverages owe their popularity 
to those other and quite different effects which have just been referred to 
as "drug" effects. 

Antsie in physiological memoirs records some striking instances of the 
uses of alcohol seemingly as a true food. He kept patients alive for many 
days during acute illness on nothing but large quantities of brandy, and 
found that they had not emaciated nearly so much as they would have done 
had they been merely living on their own tissues. This is not surprising, 
says Hutchison, "for the amount of alcohol (12 ounces of brandy) admin- 
istered daily is capable of yielding close upon 1,000 calories to the body." 

EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL UPON METABOLISM.— The influence of alcohol 
on metabolism may be briefly summarized : (a) it is burnt up in the 
body, sparing fat and possibly carbohydrate, but (h) the weight of evi- 
dence is against the view that it has any important power of diminishing 
nitrogenous waste. The combustion of alcohol in the body and its elimi- 
nation are questions which demand much thought and study. In non- 
intoxicating doses, very little (1 to 3 per cent at most) passes off from 
the body unchanged, while on the other hand, if the quantity consumed 
is sufficient to produce intoxication, the amount of alcohol which escapes 
combustion may be as high as 10 to 12 per cent of the whole dose. When- 
ever the proportion of alcohol in the circulating medium becomes greater 
than the cells can rapidly decompose, it exerts a protoplasmic poisonous 
effect. Those effects are cumulative and soon a condition of cell paralysis 
is produced, so that the expression "paralytic drunk" has a truer physio- 
logical meaning than those who commonly use it suppose. 

Impairment of Mental Processes. — The experiments of Kraepelin 
and Kiirz(31) show the marked impairment of various mental processes 
and the progressive character of such impairment, from the continued 
repeated moderate use of alcohol. These experiments were originally 
published in 1900 ; the results of these experiments show a piling up of 
the destructive effects of alcohol with considerable impairment of the 
mental faculties. Since the brain cells are particularly susceptible to the 



ALCOHOL 581 

paralyzing effect of alcohol, the brain naturally exhibits the first eflfecU 
of an overdose. The higher centers being the first affected, the paralysis 
begins in those, passing downward. As the highcHt cerebral centers are 
the controlling centers, the earliest exhibition of alcoholic poisoning is 
loss of control of the intellect, emotions and muscular system. The 
"driving centers" of the brain, those centers of life uiwn which depend 
the cardiac action and respiration, are affected by the paralysis only in 
an extreme degree of intoxication. The condition of intoxication then 
develops into coma, which commonly ends in death. 

It must not be forgotten that the prolonged and habitual consumption 
of alcohol, though insufHcient in quantity to ''produce any of the outward 
or visible signs of intoxication, is yet beyond the inunediate oxidizing 
power of the cells and may result in considerable detriment to the tissues." 
The brain, likewise, in a habitual drinker is especially liable to suffer, 
probably owing to the fact of its being the most highly organized and 
delicate tissue of the body. Through the abuse of prolonged chronic alco- 
holism, the brain becomes the seat of various degenerative change** which 
affect the sensory centers more deleteriously than the motor, leading even- 
tually to a blunting of the moral perceptions with a special loss of the 
sense of integrity. The presence throughout the body of even a small 
amount of undecomposed alcohol leads to inactivity of chemical energy 
of the cells, thereby hindering the ordinary metabolic processes leading 
to chronic diseased conditions. As already pointed out, alcohol seems 
to enact the role of a fat-sparer in the metabolic process, therefore alco- 
holism is a common cause of fatty degenerations and a primary factor in 
many cases of obesity. By hindering the decomposition of carWiydrates, 
it interferes with the glycogenic function of the liver, favoring some forms 
of diabetes. There can be no doubt that its continued administration 
may be a causative factor in that alteration of protein metabolism which 
seems to be the basis of gout. 

EFFECT ON EXCRETORY ORGANS.— The elimination by the kidneys 
and other organs of excretion of undecomposed alcohol irritates these 
organs and is a factor in bringing about changes in their stnicture which 
may seriously interfere with the normal functions of the affected organs. 
In this way the habitual consumption of more alcohol than can be decom- 
posed in the body may lead to the production of chronic nephritis. These 
changes due to chronic alcoholism emphasize the very great importance 
of ascertaining, if only approximately, just how much alcohol can be so 
completely oxidized in the body that there will be none left over to exert 
the ill effects and injurious influences just enumerated. 



582 STIMULANTS 

AMOUNT OF ALCOHOL THAT CAN BE COMPLETELY OXIDIZED.— 
As a result of much experimentation, it has been determined that from 
one to one and one-half fluid ounces of absolute alcohol is the maximum 
amount which can be completely oxidized in the human system during a 
period of twenty-four hours, and in such a way that none of its narcotic 
effects are manifested and no unchanged alcohol appears in the urine 
(Parkes). It is estimated that this quantity of alcohol would be con- 
tained in the following amounts of some of the commoner alcoholic 
drinks : 

Brandy or Whiskey (50 per cent Alcohol) 2 fluid ounces or 1 glass 
Port, Sherry, and other strong Wines (20 

per cent Alcohol) 5 " " " 2^/2 glasses 

Claret, Hock, Champagne, and other 

Weaker Wines (10 per cent Alcohol) 10 " " equals 1 tumblerful 

Bottled Beer (5 per cent Alcohol) 20 " " " 1 imperial pint 

Idiosyncrasy or personal peculiarity of the individual plays a very 
large part in determining the amount of alcohol which can be consumed 
by a person without injurious effects upon health. Some persons are able 
to burn up more alcohol than others. We all have known persons who are 
able to go on day after day consuming much larger quantities of alcohol 
than mentioned above without appreciably interfering with their normal 
condition. Apart from these personal peculiarities of constitution, it 
must be obvious that surroundings and environment of each individual 
affect, in a way, the amount of alcohol which can be imbibed within the 
bounds of safety. Another factor which must influence any calculation 
as to the amount of alcohol which can safely be consumed daily is the 
form, mode and quantity in which the alcohol is taken. It is clear to 
the careful student that an amount of alcohol which would be harmful 
if swallowed at one time, may be free from danger if taken in smaller 
quantities during a twenty-four-hour period. 

Varieties of Alcoholic Drinks — WHISKEY.— Whiskey, according to the 
United States Pharmacopoeia, is a spirit obtained from fermented grain 
by distillation and contains from 40 to 56 per cent by volume of alcohol. 
It should be free from disagreeable odor and at least two years old. It 
is quite important to clearly distinguish genuine malt whiskey distilled 
from malted barley, or a mixture of malted and unmalted barley from a 
"pot-still," and grain whiskey distilled from unmalted grain, such as bar- 
ley, oats, corn and wheat, which is prepared in the "patent-still." 

Malt WinsKEY. — Malt whiskey 'is prepared from malted barley 
which is carefully dried. Then it is made into a "mash," making a true 



VAIUETIES OF ALCOHOLIC DRINKS 583 

beer. The nature of the water used iu ''lauHhing'* in suppoaed to have 
some iiitlueuce on the character of the tinitthed product, uoft water being 

preferable. 

When the fermentation of the ^'mash" is complete, it is distilled iu tlie 
old-fashioned "pot-still" heated over an open fire. This is a poiut of some 
importance, since the direct heat causes some of the sugjiry sulintance in 
the mash to become slightly charred. In this way, among other things, 
the substance furfurol (Cj^U^O^) is produced, the presence of which is 
one of the chief distinguishing characteristics of **pot-8tiir' whiskey. 

Grain Whiskey. — Grain whiskey is nuide from a mixture of grains, 
rye, corn and barley, with just a sulKcicncy of malt to convert this starch 
into sugar. Various other substances also are used for its production, 
such as cane sugar, glucose, molasses, potatoes, turnips, beetroot, etc. 
More important than this distinction, however, is the fact that it is dis- 
tilled in a patent steam still in such a way that the by-products of fer- 
mentation (fusel-oil, etc.) are, to a large extent, separated from the 
ethyl alcohol. The raw product from the patent-still has much less flavor 
than new malt whiskey, but it has the advantage of being ready for con- 
sumption much sooner. 

This kind of whiskey is stronger and harsher than malt whiskey and 
is more cheaply made because the cost of malting is saved. Genuine grain 
whiskey, however, is made from the fermentations and distillations of the 
wort of grain rye, corn and barley. Kentucky Bourbon whiskey is made 
by the use of partially malted com and rye, while the Monongahela whis- 
key of western Pennsylvania is made from rye with 10 per cent of malt. 
Scotch and Irish whiskies are made from malted barley mixed with other 
grains and distilled in the old-fashioned pot-still. 

The fresh distilled whiskey, called raw whiskey, is unfit to drink until 
after it has been aged by storage, allowing various chemical changes to 
take place. The color of genuine whiskey is in part due to the material 
from which it is made, and in part to the way in which it is stored. The 
process of maturation consists of certain changes in the spirit attended 
by softening, with the development of aroma and a deepening of the 
color. The bouquet depends largely upon the material from which the 
liquor was obtained and the methods of preparation. Thus malt whiskey 
develops a distinguishable flavor formed in no other whiskey. Whiskey 
from potatoes has a very faint odor of violets. Pot-still whiskey devel- 
ops a flavor never found in patent-still whiskey. The proper time for 
maturation should be from five to eight years. New whiskey contains a 
varying proportion of the higher alcohols, which are, for convenience. 



584 STIMULANTS 

commonly classed together as "fusel-oil." This term includes the follow- 
ing substances: iso-amyl alcohol, propyl alcohol and normal butyl alco- 
hol. Eusel-oil is injurious to living organisms and speedily poisons small 
animals. In man it produces rapid intoxication, followed by headache, 
depression and general nervous indisposition. 

Moonshine Whiskey. — "Moonshine" whiskey is a product made in 
the mountainous sections of the United States from grain, corn, wheat, 
rye and potatoes by most crude methods without the supervision of the 
Internal Eeveiiue Department of the United States Government. The 
preparations of materials used in making "mash" for distillation is usu- 
ally, cornmeal, 0.8 per cent; rye, 0.1 per cent; malt, 0.1 per cent. This 
mixture is placed in tubs and scalded with "slop," the refuse from former 
distillation. After cooling it is raked, or mixed by a stick called a 
"masher." Water is added and the mass ferments for two or three days. 
Sweet mash whiskey is made by scalding the mash with water instead of 
slops, with yeast added to induce fermentation. Sour mash whiskey is 
made without yeast but with slop. The wort is then heated by steam, and 
the low wines, called "singlings," are run off from the residue or slop and 
redistilled. The whiskey is now ready for barrelling. As before stated, 
new whiskey is unfit for consumption, and after barrelling it should be 
stored and allowed to ripen for fi\Q years. The pot-still is so ancient that 
the date of its origin is unknown. It is probable that the modern patent- 
still has been evolved from the primitive stills which even now are used in 
Ceylon and the Malay Archipelago, where the art of distilling is believed 
to have originated. 

At least two distillations are necessary when the pot-still is used so 
as to produce a spirit of proof strength, i.e., 50 per cent alcohol, and re- 
peated fractional distillation is required to separate the alcohol from 
the water and oils, as in the manufacture of spirits of wine. The product 
of the pot-still is always uniform in character. No matter what is the 
source of the spirit, it is, as previously stated, a grain spirit and is made 
from raw grain such as barley, oats, corn or potatoes, etc. The process of 
malting brings about changes in the grain which are unobtainable by 
other means. These changes are the source of differences between mature 
pot-still whiskey made from malt and mature patent-still whiskey made 
from unmalted grain. 

Patent-Still vs. Pot-Still Whiskey. — Various controversies have 
taken place as to the respective merits of pot-still and patent-still whis- 
key (32). On the one hand, it is claimed that pot-stilled whiskey alone 
retains the flavor which is derived from malt and the effects of heat. Just 



VAllIETIES OF ALCOHOLIC DUINKS 686 

as wine depends for its flavor upon the substttnco used, so does whiskey. 
iMalt whiskey obtained by means of the pot-still retains a rich malty 
liavor. This flavor is distinctly rei-ognizcd in i^t-still whiskey, but is ab- 
sent from the patent-sti-11 product. "The main diflerenciw in the two 
varieties of whiskey may Im briefly summarized as follows": 

(a) Patent-still whiskey contains nmch less of the by-products of fer- 
mentation, fusel-oil, etc., than pot-still whiskey and is therefore a much 
purer product. 

(6) Pot-still whiskey improves with age while patent-still whiskey 
does not im})rove so much froui agiug. 

(c) Young patent-still whiskey is much safer to drink than young 
pot-still whiskey, but the latter when fully nnitured has a fuller and 
pleasanter flavor than the former. 

Most of the commercial whiskies are blends of malt and grain wh\th 
kies and are not the product of one distillery, (irain whiskey is often used 
as a basis of the blend, a certain percentage of malt being added for the 
purpose of proper flavoring. 

BRANDY.— Brandy is the spirit distilled from the fermented juice of 
grapes and other fruits. It is made in most wine-growing countries, but 
the^best known brandies come from France, Spain, Portugal and Cali- 
fornia. White wine contains 6 to 8 per cent of alcohol and is generally 
used for making the best brandy. The wine itself is often harsh and 
unfit for consumption. The distillation is carried on in the old-fashioned 
pot-still having a large boiler with a bulbous head which collects the 
scum and some of the water thrown up in boiling. The distillate is con- 
densed by running through a ^Svorm" surrounded by cold water. "The 
process is that of fractional distillation and consists of two distinct dis- 
tillations. In the first operation the distillate is divided into three parts 
which are collected separately. The first part contains the crudities of the 
wine and is returned to the still ; the middle running is the best part and 
is used in the second distillation; and the third part or tailings is min- 
gled with fresh wine to be redistilled. The second part constitutes the 
brandy, and the tailings are used to make a second grade of brandy." 

Apple Braivdy. — Apple brandy — cider brandy, applejack — is a dis- 
tilled liquor made by the distillation of apple cider. It contains the natu- 
ral organic acids and ethers of the apple which impart to the brandy a 
peculiar flavor, which is not so agreeable as that obtained from the dis- 
tillation of fermented grape juice in making grape brandy. Apple brandy 
usually contains from 40 to 50 per cent of alcohol. Peach brandy is made 
by distilling the pomace of ripened peaches by means of the old-fashioned 



586 STIMULANTS 

"pot-still"; apricot brandy is a similar product. Both varieties have a 
very pleasing bouquet. 

All brandy is a clear, colorless spirit when new, and is only fit for use 
after remaining in wooden casks for some years. The color then becomes 
brown from the extractives of the wood and various aromatic ethers, alde- 
hydes and other products. The propyl, butyl and amyl alcohols, origi- 
nally present and more or less injurious, are decreased by age. Furfurol, 
which is always present in genuine brandy, rapidly diminishes with age. 
The percentage of alcohol in all brandies is about 50 per cent. 

Fictitious Brandy. — Much of the brandy on the market is a ficti- 
tious blend and not a pure distillate of fermented grape juice. It may 
therefore be termed fictitious brandy. The product is a mixture of neu- 
tral, silent or grain spirit (produced by the distillation of rice, rye, corn, 
beetroot, potatoes, glucose, etc.) colored with prune juice or caramel and 
flavored with cognac essence. It is a clever imitation, but in such bran- 
dies the flavor vanishes immediately it is tasted and leaves a dryness on 
the tongue. There arc other differences between fictitious and genuine 
brandy: that made from grain spirit contains no furfurol and no appre- 
ciable quantity of higher alcohol or ethers, excepting what are added to 
it. The color of fictitious brandy Is usually deeper than that of the genu- 
ine spirit and is due to the addition of prune juice or burnt sugar. It is 
sometimes "fortified" by adding bitter almond shells or tincture of cap- 
sicum. The genuine brandy is not usually diluted excepting by the addi- 
tion of water to "extend" it and caramel to restore the color of the diluted 
article. 

RUM. — Bum is a spirit distilled directly from sugar cane products in 
sugar-growing countries and is usually produced by the distillation of fer- 
mented molasses obtained in the manufacture of raw sugar. The best 
qualities, however, are obtained by direct fermentation of the juice of the 
freshly harvested sugar cane. The spirit contains by-products of fermen- 
tation, which impart to rum its characteristic flavor. 

Genuine rum is of two distinct types: (a) Jamaica rum and (h) 
Demerara rum. The former is distilled from liquor having a high orig- 
inal gravity and which undergoes slow fermentation for from ten to 
twelve days ; the latter is distilled from a so-called "wash," having a low 
original gravity and which ferments rapidly for a period varying from 
thirty-six to forty-eight hours. In addition to these two, many imitation 
and mixed rums are sold. They are manufactured from grain spirit and 
butyrate of ethyl, while burnt sugar is used as a coloring agent. In 
contrast with this motley assortment of counterfeit preparations, genuine 



VARIETIES OF ALCOHOLIC DRINKS 587 

ruin is that made in Jamaica from fermentcHl juice of sugar cam-, ami h 
of une(iualled quality. An analogous instance is that the characteristic 
riavor of gvimine brandy can 1k' ohtaimMl only from the fermented juice 
of grapes. The nietliod of diHtillation and maturation is similar to tliat 
used in the manufacture of other spirits, and the prtx'css of maturation 
is much like that taking place in whiskey and brandy. This has already 
been described. 

Hum spirit, like malt whiskey, improves greatly in flavor by the de- 
velopment of ethers in which it is peculiarly rich. The product, like old 
wine, improves with age and usually g(M's into consumption at about the 
same alcoholic strength and age as malt whiskey. Rum «)ntain8 a notable 
amount of furfurol and is highly acid. 'vFine old Jamaica rum, well ma- 
tured, is soft to the palate and has a mellow flavor and aroma, due to tlio 
natural combination of ethers and aldehyds." Its alcoholic content iB 
about 70 per cent by volume. 

GIN.— Gin is a spirit distilled from the mixture of malt, grain and 
various other substances which give to the liquor special properties, 

(a) Holland gin is manufactured from a mash of the cereals men- 
tioned, distilled three times in a pot-still, with juniper l)crrics being added 
to the last distillation. The product is then run off into underground cis- 
terns lined with white tile, where the spirit can be kept without danger 
of absorbing coloring matter. 

(h) Irish gin is made from the same cereals with a combination of 
aromatic, carminative and diuretic substances derived from angelica root, 
calamus, cardamon, cassia, cinnamon, coriander, juniper, fennel, grains 
of paradise, licorice, orris root and other substances. 

(c) "Old Tom" gin is a London beverage made by the addition of 
cane sugar to gin made after the Irish formula. 

Much so-called gin is a fictitious product, manufactured out of grain 
spirit flavored with salt, juniper berries and the oil of turpentine, Xew 
or raw gin is as injurious as new malt whiskey or brandy, and undergoes 
changes somewhat similar to those which have been described in connec- 
tion with other spirits. In composition, gin resembles beet spirit more 
than any other; the ethers and higher alcohols are comparatively insig- 
nificant; the secondary products are therefore small in amount. Un- 
sweetened and dry gin contains about 45 per cent ; the Irish and Holland 
gins run about 35 to 43 per cent, and the Old Tom gin varies from 40 to 
50 per cent of alcohol. 

LIQUEURS.— Liqueurs (33) are spirituous beverages having a high per- 
centage of alcohol. They are sweetened with cane sucar. while the flavor- 



l 



588 STIMULANTS 

ing consists of essences, ethers, herbs, which may be aromatic, and in 
certain instances bitter substances. Originally these spirits were distilled 
from the fermented liquor derived from herbs, barks, roots and seeds. 
Now, however, they are offered in the form of tinctures of these articles 
which have been made with grain spirit, spirits of wine and the like. 
Laborde, in a communication to the French Academy of Medicine, ap- 
pearing in the Lancet, 1902, Volume II, page 49, says; 

Liqueurs are now largely made of artificial essences. Genuine vegetable essences 
are bad enough, but these are not used now. The essences are made of synthetic 
flavorings, which are more poisonous than the vegetable essences. Synthetic 
essence of anisette contains a quantity of hydrocyanic acid and the inhalation of 
the vapor from this essence has been sufficient to cause grave syncope followed 
by illness lasting several days. Chartreuse essence contains thirteen poisonous 
substances which bring about serious effects. 



Brouardel, in discussing liqueurs in the London Lancet, says: 
"Liqueurs were formerly distilled from wine holding aromatic substances 
in solution ; they are now simply solutions of essences in rectified alcohol. 
Like absinthe, they cause drunkenness, loss of sensation and motion and 
veritable attacks of epilepsy.'' 

Laborde in summing up the harmful influences to the public health 
from the consumption of liqueurs considers that absinthe and its com- 
pounds, chartreuse, gin, noyau, vermouth, vulnerary and Angostura bit- 
ters, should be absolutely forbidden to be sold, except for medicinal pur- 
poses, and that public authorities ought to forbid the manufacture or sale 
of these drinks. He asserts that Tulnerary contains at least 15 per cent 
of poisonous substances. 

Composition of Liqueurs. — The proportion of alcohol in liqueurs Is 
high, following from 83 to 50 per cent or more by volume. The propor- 
tion of the other ingredients is shown in the analysis (on page 589) of 
some of the most prominent of this class of alcoholic beverages, taken 
from Konig and Rupp. 

Absinthe. — Absinthe is one of the spirituous liqueurs. It contains 
the essential oils of a number of aromatic herbs having antispasmodic 
properties. Among these herbs are cloves, cinnamon, wormwood, angelica, 
marjoram leaves, sweetflag and parsley. They are macerated in a 40 
per cent spirit. The greenish-yellow or opalescent color is produced by 
the chlorophyll of the green leaves of spinach, wormwood, hyssop and 
veronica. Eecently artificial coloring agents have been used in the liqueur. 



VAlilETlES OF ALCOHOLIC DRINKS 



589 



THE ALCOHOL CONTENT OF V^UllUUS UQUEUR8 





Alcohol 


Extract 


Cane 
Sugar 


Secondary 
ProclucU, 
Oilj», cUj. 






Weight 


Volume 


Ash 


Absinthe 


30.7 
38.5 

36.6 
42.5 
24.8 


58.93 
49.70 
42.00 
52.(X) 
43.18 
48.00 
55.00 
33.00 


.18 
5.95 
34.82 
36.00 
36.11 
28.28 
28.60 
32.02 


4.16 
34.44 
32.57 
34.37 
27.6.3 
28..50 
31.18 


.32 

1.60 

.38 

3.43 

1.76 

.65 

.10 

.84 




Angostura Bitters. . . 
Anisette 


.068 
.068 
.406 


Benedictine 


Chartreuse. . . . 


Crenie de Menthe . . . 
Curacoa 


.043 
.040 

.a58 


Kiiinmel 





This beverage was first introduced in the French Army in 1844, hut 
is now prohibited. Its consumption produces the customary effects of 
alcohol exaltation of the nervous system, "quickening of the circulation and 
increase of appetite due to these bitter principles; but this is followed by 
a depression which may be profound,'^ leaving deleterious effects on the 
nervons system such as headache, giddiness and loss of memory, with the 
subsequent degeneration of mental and moral faculties ultimately leading 
to extreme depravity. The Federal Government of this country recog- 
nizing the danger of absinthe drinking has prohibited its importation and 
interstate commerce in the United States. The primary physiological 
effect is one of exaltation to the nervous system, a quickening of the circu- 
lation and increase of the appetite and digestion; but is followed by 
depression which may be profound. According to Mangan {Lancet , I, 
739, 1887), absinthe drunkenness or poisoning is attended by sudden 
and severe headache and giddiness, delirium in which hallucinations 
affecting the special senses predominate, epileptiform attacks, loss of 
consciousness, and, on recovery, loss of memory; followed by hysterical 
manifestations. 

Angostura Bitters. — Angostura bitters is really a tincture of An- 
gostura bark and various spices slightly sweetened with sugar. It is made 
largely in Trinidad. 

Benedictine. — Benedictine is a liqueur originally made at the Abbey 
of Fecamp in northern France as early as 1510 by the Benedictine Monks 
of the Abbey. It is a strong alcohol flavored with various essential oils 
and herbs. The exact constituents are a trade secret 

Chartreuse. — Chartreuse is made at the Carthusian Abbey near 
Grenoble, France. Its manufacture furnishes a considerable revenue to 



590 STIMULANTS 

the monks of the abbey. This liqueur is made from alcohol distilled 
with angelica, hyssop, nutmeg, peppermint, and sweetened. Like other 
liqueurs, chartreuse is now made principally from volatile oils and essences 
instead of from herbs and spices. 

Ckeme be Menthe. — Creme de menthe, if genuine, is a liqueur made 
by distilling a fermented decoction of mint, sage, balm, cinnamon and 
ginger, sweetened with sugar and colored with chlorophyll. The herbs 
are macerated with the roots and bark in the alcohol for fourteen days, 
filtered and sweetened with sugar. Often, however, this liqueur is clearly 
a tincture sweetened and artificially colored with analine dyes. 

CuRACOA. — Curacoa is a liqueur somewhat simpler than most bever-« 
ages of this class. It is made in Amsterdam from the peel of bitter 
oranges imported from the island of Curacoa. The peel is macerated 
and distilled with spirit sometimes flavored with small quantities of Ja- 
maica rum. It is sweetened with sugar and caramel added to give color. 

KiRSCHWAssER. — Kirschwasscr is a liqueur made from crushed cher- 
ries grown in the Black Forest. This is a very popular drink among the 
Germans. It is made by the distillation of crushed fermented cherries. 
It has the taste and odor of cherry pits and contains about 50 per cent 
alcohol. 

KiJMMEL. — Klimmel is a liqueur made from a fermented infusion of 
cumin and coriander seeds sweetened with sugar. It is now made from 
a tincture of cumin and coriander mixed with brandy and sweetened with 
sugar. 

Maraschii^o. — Maraschino liqueur is made from small sour Dalma- 
tian cherries from Marasca, Italy. The cherry is crushed together with 
the pits, mixed with honey, fermented and distilled. The imitation is 
made from crushed wild cherries, peach pits, cherry leaves, raspberries 
and nuts. These are macerated for fourteen days in alcohol of 85 per 
cent strength and sweetened with sugar in the same way as creme de 
menthe. 

Mead. — Mead is a vinous beverage manufactured from honey by 
mixing it with hot or boiling water in equal quantities. To the mixture 
are added certain spices, a portion of ground malt and a piece of toasted 
bread to aid the process of fermentation. There is no question but that 
mead formed the favorite beverage of the !N'orthern people for many 
centuries; it is also frequently mentioned in Ossian. 

Mescal. — Mescal is a distilled beverage made by the Apache Indians 
and other natives of IN'ew Mexico from a species of cactus (Maguey) 
having heavy succulent leaves and turnip-like roots. After roasting, the 



VAKIETIES OF AWOUOUC DHINKS 591 

product 18 "pulped" Iwtween rocks and tlie juico which exiidet* i» allowed 
to ferment. This is the higer Ix^er of Mexico, and is known as "pulque." 
It is held that the injurious effects of this l)cverapc are not so much duo 
to the aleohol contained, as to the products of fcnnciitation. Mescal is 
fermented in the skins of hogs and cows and is sold from those receptaclea. 

Mktiieglin. — ^letheglin is a vinous li(pior extracted from honey. 
It is made as follows: one part strained honey and three parts boiling 
water, to which aromatic spices are added. The mixture is poured 
into a cask and fermentation allowed to proceed in the usual manner. 
Metheglin has been used as a Iwvera^e by primitive jwoplcs from time 
immemorial. It was known and used by the nations of Southern Europe 
and the barbarous tribes of the more Northern countries. Metbeglin 
was a favorite beverage in England just after the usurpation of William 
the Conqueror. The English emigrants to the New World brought with 
them the knowledge of its manufacture, and even today nietheglin is 
still made in rural sections inhabited by the descendants of the original 
English. Pliny says it has all the bad qualities of wine and none of the 
good ones. It has a high alcoholic content, and forms a very seductive 
and inviting potation, producing an intoxication somewhat simulating 
that due to absinthe. A reputable physician practicing in upper New 
York state reports to the author a remarkable case of intoxication, which 
lasted from Saturday until the following Tuesday, from rather lilxjral 
indulgence of this vinous concoction, during which time the subject lost 
all knowledge of person, place or time. 

Eatafia. — Ratafia is a general term applied to a variety of liqueurs 
and cordials made in the south of France from cherry fruits, spices and 
herbs, fermented, distilled and subsequently sweetened. It usually eon- 
tains about 25 per cent of alcohol. 

Vermouth. — Vermouth is a liqueur made in France and Italy from 
white wine wdiich is ''fortified" with various extracts including worm- 
wood, etc., distilled and sweetened with 20 per cent of sugar, then exposed 
in casks to the direct rays of the sun for some time. 

Effect of Liqueurs on Digestion. — Liqueurs contain a very high 
percentage of ethyl alcohol, with the admixture of other high grade alco- 
hols such as propylic, butylic, amylic, etc., and of ethers in varying quan- 
tities, by no means negligible. Such liqueurs are the highest grade of 
spirituous preparations. If the average unfortunate man knew the nature 
of these admixtures that are put into what are given him to drink, he no 
doubt would be more cautious and reserved in his potations. 

Liqueurs taken at the end of a heavy meal may perhaps give a fillip 



592 STIMULANTS 

to digestion and counteract to some extent any retarding influence due to 
the cofl:'ee taken during the meal, but the large quantity of sugar which 
they contain may in the process of digestion be a prolific cause of acidity. 
On the process of digestion, the action of liqueur is practically iden- 
tical to that of pure alcohol. Liqueurs can only delay digestion by virtue 
of the alcohol which they contain. In moderate quantities, the influence 
is probably favorable rather than otherwise, owing to the vegetable bitters 
which they contain. Their acidity is so slight that they have but small 
untoward efl'ect on salivary digestion. 

CONCLUSIONS AS TO THE USE OF ALCOHOL 

Alcohol is undoubtedly an unnecessary article of diet in normal 
health, but it can be consumed without harmful effects within certain 
limits in quantities up to two ounces per day, the maximum amount that 
can be metabolized by the average individual within twenty-four hours. 
!For some this estimate is too low, while for others even this amount can- 
not be utilized without unpleasant after-effects. 

From the foregoing study of alcohol and its various preparations, we 
have been able to determine that its use as a food is practically nil ; that 
it can replace, only to a certain extent, a small amount of fat and perhaps 
also an infinitesimal amount of carbohydrate in the body, while its sec- 
ondary effects on the nervous and muscular system counteract, to a large 
extent, the benefits derived from the production of heat and energy by its 
oxidation. 

Clinical experimentation has shown that the consumption of alcohol 
does not favorably induce sustained muscular effort and that on the other 
hand it may even do harm by paralyzing the sense of fatigue which is the 
natural check on excessive exertion. Its use does not stimulate the per- 
formance of mental labor, but instead retards mentality unfavorably in 
the performance of perfectly healthy brain work. Abel in writing on the 
"Physiological Aspects of the Liquor Problem" says : "He who has men- 
tal labor of an exacting kind to perform, and he upon whom great respon- 
sibilities devolve, is forced, if he would be at his best, to use alcohol as a 
restorative agent only at the proper time and place, as he would other 
pleasures and luxuries in his environment." There can be no question 
but that even daily moderate drinking reduces considerably the rapidity 
with which the habitual association of ideas are formed in the mind. 

The effect of alcohol is cumulative and increases as time goes on. The 
idea that alcohol "stimulates" a person to the performance of mental tasks 



VARIETIES OF ALCOHOLIC DRINKS 6g3 

is not founded on fact ; neither is tlie widespread notion that its use helps 
an artisan in his task c<>iTolM)rated l)v trsts. 

The work of scicntirtc investigators has iikfwise robbed ah-oliul of 
its traditional glory as a digestive stimulant. While it is granted that 
alcohol does at first stimulate the digestive organs, yet this effect is coun- 
terbalanced by its inhibitory effect upon the chemical proooM of dige*- 
tion. 

It is the opinion of careful students of the subject that the moder- 
ate use (two ounces per day) of alcohol in health is harmless, but Dr. 
Murchison on the other hand asserts that (a) "a man in good health does 
not require alcohol and is probably better off without it. Its occasional 
use will do him no harm; its habitual use, even in moderation, may, and 
often does, induce disease gradually; (h) there are a large number of in- 
dividuals in modern society to whom alcohol, even in moderate amount, 
is a positive poison." 

The use of alcohol in disease is a subject on which volumes have been 
written. It undoubtedly has a place in disease, but like other poisons and 
narcotics should be prescribed with caution. Just as the effect of alcohol 
on the digestion is the test for its value in health, so its effects upon the 
circulation and nervous system are the criterion of its usefulness in most 
cases of acute disease. 

Alcohol may be employed in fevers and other wasting diseases, where, 
by its oxidation, it limits the destruction of the bodily tissues, reduces the 
temperature and stimulates the heart and circulation. A dry brown 
tongue, restlessness and a feeble, irregular pulse are indications for its 
use. It is best given in the form of whiskey or brandy in definite quan- 
tity, according to the condition of the pulse and heart, the general 
strength, the height of the fever, the ability to take nourishment and the 
age and previous habits of the patient. It is not indicated in every caae 
of fever, and many cases will be aggravated by its use. 

Armstrong and Greves found (a) it is doing good if the tongue be- 
comes moist, the pulse slower, the breathing more tranquil and the skin 
moist; (6) it is doing harm if the tongue becomes dry and brown, the 
pulse quicker, the respirations more rapid and the skin hot and parched. 
Young children and aged persons bear stimulants well. 

Habitual drinkers when coming to the sick bed do not react to stimu- 
lation. Alcohol is lauded as a check to tissue waste in febrile conditions 
so marked in prolonged wasting diseases, though we have seen reason to 
doubt this — at least so far as nitrogenous tissues are involved. There are 
reasons for the theory that alcohol actually increases the resisting power 



594 WINE 

of the body to the poisonous toxins of septic fevers. In some chronic dis- 
eases, such as diabetes, alcohol is used advantageously to replace a certain 
amount of carbohydrate in the diet. 



WINE (34) 

Wine is produced by the fermentation of grape juice. The juice 
is first extracted from the grape by pressing and kept for a few days at 
ordinary temperature, when it changes into wine, the dextrose and levu- 
lose content being transformed into alcohol and carbonic acid gas accord- 
ing to the following equation: 

CeH.^Oe + CeHi^O, -= 4.C,Il,0 + 400^ 
Dextrose Levulose Alcohol Carbon 

dioxid 

The ferment which produces these changes is present in the grapes 
or their stalks and in the atmosphere of the manufactories. There are a 
number of factors, such as the character of the grape utilized, its cultiva- 
tion and the method of manufacturing, that enter into the production of 
good wines. Wine has been celebrated from time immemorial, as indi- 
cated in the writings of ancient peoples, such as the Hebrews, Chaldeans, 
Greeks and Eomans. About the year 2347 b.c. we hear that "N^oah 
planted a vineyard and drank the wine thereof." 

Composition of Wine. — Dupre(35), writing on "What is Wine?", gives 
the constituents of grape juice and the wine manufactured from it. Ac- 
cording to his investigations grape juice or "must" contains: ^ 

Water Vegetable Mucus 

Grape Sugar 1 1 n +« on ^^« ««,,+ Essential Oils 

Fruit Suglr 1 10 to 30 per cent Extractives 

Malic Acid Mineral substances 

Tartaric Acid Tannic Acid 

Racemic Acid Coloring MatterslFrom the Skins and 

Albuminous Substances Fatty Substances} Kernels 

He also found on analysis that wine contains the following: 

Water Ethers of foregoing Alcohols and Acids 

feSMotoepercent ^^ 

Ethylic Alcohol | Carbonic Acid and Ammonia 

Propylic Alcohol f 5 to 22 per cent Trimethylamin 

Butylic Alcohol J Oils produced by Fermentation 



1 Taken from Popular Science Monthly, vol. vii, by Hutchison, p. 576; Ruhrah, 
184. 



PUEPAIUTIO.N OK WINE 595 

Amylic Alcohol Alhumiiiouij Matter 

Other higher Alcohols Vegetable Mucua 

Malic Acid 

Tartaric Acid 

Raceinic Acid 

Succinic Acid 

Acetic Acid 

Formic Acid 

Propionic Acid 

Butyric Acid 



Coloring Matter 
Tannic Arid 
Extractives 
0.3 to 0.8 per cent Min^nU Maiicr», U.15 to 0.6 i»er cent 



Preparation of Wine — The wine-nuiking season begins about tlio mid- 
dle of August and ends the last of ScptenikT. The juice of the grapes 
is expressed in a wine press, unripe, decayed or withered fruit being care- 
fully rejected. Great care should be taken in expressing the juice to 
avoid crushing the gTape seeds and stalks; therefore, the old method of 
pressing out the juice by ''treading" is much preferable to the wine-preas 
method. "The 'must,' as the liquor is now called, consists of: 70 to 85 
per cent of water ; 10 to 30 per cent of dextrose and levulose, and tartaric. 
racemic, malic and tannic acids, albuminous, fatty and mucoid sulwtances, 
essential oils, mineral and coloring matters." The "must" is run into 
tanks where fermentation is brought about by the action of various yeasts 
and other organisms that are present in the juice. The most important 
of these yeasts is Saccharomyces ellipsoid puh, but many other ferments 
are also present. The fermentation continues from one to several weeks, 
depending on the character of the "must" and the variety of wine to be 
made. The liquid is then drawn off from the "lees" and is filtered, clari- 
fied and put into hottles or barrels or vats for storage in cool cellars. If 
the temperature is carefully regulated, a second fermentation takes place, 
providing enough sugar remains to induce it, and the wine is greatly im- 
proved by maturation. 

In the manufacture of wines the process of fermentation must be 
carefully regulated. In still wines the primary fermentation must be 
allowed to complete itself, or else it must be stopped by the addition of 
alcohol or preservatives. Thus the fornuition of carbonic acid gas will 
be prevented and the following changes will not be noticeable. Sparkling 
wines demand a different procedure. In champagne, for example, pri- 
mary fermentation is soon checked so that the succeeding process, ue,, 
secondary fermentation, may take place in the bottle and impart the 
sparkles and froth so essential to this type of wine. In certain wines 
made, from black grapes only the juice is used, the skins being discarded 
on account of their coloring matter and tannin. "^Nfust" is placed in 
cellars to ferment. On the deposit of the "lees" the liquid is transferred 



I 



596 WINE 

from cask to cask until fermentation is at the right stage. The wine is 
then clear and bright. Vin hrut is natural wine to which no liquor is 
added. When ready for sale the wine may contain considerable sugar; 
or again, it may contain very little, and is then known as sec, or dry 
wine. When the amount of sugar contained is negligible the wine is ires 
sec, or very dry. 

Varieties of Wines. — Wines may be classified according to character 
and composition (36) : 

(a) E'atural Wine (e) Acid Wines 

(&) Strong Dry Wines (/) Sparkling Wines 

(c) Strong Sweet Wines {g) Perfect Wines 

{d) Aromatic Wines Qi) Eough or Astringent Wines 

(t) Sophisticated Wines 

(a) NATURAL WINE.— Natural wine is made from fresh grapes alone. 
No spirit is added. In this beverage there should be not less than 7 per 
cent of alcohol by volume, and not more than 16 per cent. Red wine 
owes its color to the natural coloring matter contained in the skins of 
the grapes. However, artificial coloring agents are often used. White 
wine is made from grape pulp, no skins being used — unless those of 
white grapes. After the reducing sugar has been extracted, this wine 
should not contain more than 1.7 per cent of dry extract. 

(ft) STRONG DRY WINES.— Strong dry wines are those in which the 
destruction of sugar by fermentation is complete; they are sometimes 
^'fortified" by the addition of brandy or grain spirit. Examples of this 
class of wines are port, sherry and Madeira. In cases of fever these wines 
are sometimes used in place of whiskey. Port contains from 15 to 20 per 
cent of alcohol; sherry from 15 to 22 per cent, and Madeira about 17 per 
cent. 

(c) STRONG SWEET WINES.— Strong sweet wines are those in which 
the fermentation is partially completed in the bottle. A sediment is 
formed and removed and sugar or syrup is added. Varieties of this class 
are Tokay, Malaga and sweet champagne. They contain from 18 to 22 
per cent of alcohol and 3 to 5 per cent of sugar. 

(d) AROMATIC WINES. — ^Aromatic wines are those possessing a supe- 
rior flavor due to the presence of essential oils. Examples of this class 
are Moselle, Capri and some of the Phine wines. Their alcoholic content 
varies from 10 to 12 per cent. 



I 



VARIETIKS OF WINES 697 

(e) ACID WINES.— Acid wiiies are those in which the (li«tingui8liing 
feature is due to the hirj^e (luantity of acid they contain. 

(f) SPAKKLINCI WINKS.— Sparkling wines are tliosc in wh'wh tlie fer- 
mentation is partly completed in the hottle. They contain large quanti- 
ties of carbonic acid gas to which their exhilarating effect is due. During 
fermentation in the bottle a sediment is formed which is removed and 
sugar or syrup is then added. 

CiiAMPAONE. — Champagne is the chief example of this class of wines. 
The dryness or sweetness of these wines dei)end8 upon the amount of 
cane sugar and cognac added during the process of manufacture. A 
dry champagne contains from 1 to 4 per cent of sugar and from 9 to 12 
per cent of alcohol. In considering the influence of wine upon nutrition 
and its effects upon the individual in various diseases, its' constituents 
must be borne in mind. Champagne having a low specific gravity — 
nearly that of water — is absorbed less readily than spirit. This is a good 
quality, since the alcohol is more slowly absorbed. Such wine is less dan- 
gerous than spirits. Dry champagne is absorbed without change ; its bou- 
quet and aroma stimulate taste and appetite and influence nutrition favor- 
ably. The aromatic constituents stimulate the glands of the alimentary 
system and favor the manufacture of blood cells. Wine has a restorative 
action on those exhausted by fatigue, mental labor, insufficient food or 
long illness, and in various diseases such as anemia, atony of the digestive 
organs and general debility. Good champagne can be taken with im- 
punity by gouty or rheumatic patients and is very serviceable in cases 
of acute illness where there is a tendency to heart failure, in obstinate 
vomiting and convalescence. It is a valuable remedy in fevers and other 
wasting diseases, where, by its oxidation, it acts as a food, spares the de- 
struction of the bodily tissues, reduces the temperature, stimulates the 
heart and circulation. A dry brown tongue, restlessness and a feeble, 
irregular pulse are the indications for its administration. 

(g) PERFECT WINES.— Perfect wines are those defined by Chambers 
as containing alcohol, water, sugar, ethereal flavors, fruity extractives and 
acids. Under this classification Burgundy and Bordeaux are the princi- 
pal varieties. Burgundy contains a rather larger percentage of alcohol 
and extractive matter; it is therefore said to have considerable ''body." 
Good Bordeaux wines are thoroughly fermented and together with the 
Burgimdies contain very little sugar; consequently, they are wtII borne 
by invalids and are especially used as tonics during convalescence from 
protracted illness. 

(h) ROUGH WINES.— Bough or astringent wines are those containing 



598 WINE 

considerable tannic acid, to which they owe their astringent effect. They 
contain little alcohol and are only of slight value for medicinal purposes, 
(i) SOPHISTICATED WINES.— Sophisticated wines, says Tibbies, em- 
brace a large proportion of the wines on the market. Some substance is 
either added to the ^^must" before fermentation, or to the wine after 
fermentation. Wine growers do not consider it illegal or injurious to 
add the following: 

(1) ''To the must: cane sugar, concentrated must, citric, malic, tar- 
taric and sulphurous acids, the acids being subsequently neutralized by 
pure carbonate of potassium or calcium." 

(2) "To the wine: citric, malic, tartaric, tannic and carbonic acids, 
potassium and calcium carbonates, neutral potassium tartrate, sulphites 
of sodium and calcium, or pure sulphurous aldehyd." 

(3) ''To assist clarification: isinglass, gelatin, albumin, pure kaolin, 
gypsum or sulphate of lime are added." 

Composition of Wines. — The chief wines have been studied extensively 
by W. D. Bigelow of the United States Department of Agriculture (37). 
The table on page 599 gives the average composition of some American 
wines. 

It will be seen from study of these tables that the chief constituent 
of all wines is alcohol ; but this is not the only ingredient. Wine contains 
a great number of other bodies in small proportion whose existence is of 
importance in the formation of the character of the wine (38). There 
are certain characteristics of wines which cannot be imitated. The al- 
chemist has never been able to produce wine by a combination of water, 
alcohol, ethers, cream of tartar and other salts, because small amounts of 
certain substances contained in wines, which exist in the form of ions or 
dissociated particles, continually act and react upon each other in a man- 
ner which cannot be imitated artificially. The propriety of "fortifying" 
wine is a matter of public health. "Fortification is dangerous to the pub- 
lic health, not only from the quantity, but from the quality of the spirit 
added to the wine. It also permits subsequent dilution with water." If 
there is sufficient sugar in the "must," the percentage of alcohol will con- 
tinue to increase until it reaches 10 per cent, when the alcohol will in- 
hibit the growth of the yeast and fermentation will cease. Wines that 
contain more than this amount of alcohol are "fortified" by additional 
alcohol. Some wine growers allege that this is necessary, especially for 
wines intended for export, and say that the fortification prevents the 
growth of wild yeast and the consecpient deterioration of the wine. 

"The aroma and bouquet of wine is due to the combination of higher 



COMPOSITION OF WINES 



599 



m 
W 

o 

< 
o 

o 



puu 



spiaiojj 



piJV 

sno 

-inqd|ns 



djvqding 
lunis 

-SBJOJ 



lunipog 



-onpay 



UOIJB2UBIOJ 



-009 00 o 



i; 



00 



00 

CO 



1 1 



III 



A5— <5- 



00 

■ OO 

coo 
00 



i g 



b do «9 



SM I 



oijKH PPV 

-IBioi-pioy 

-aijIBIOA 



)S3J 



spioy 



spioy 



spiov 



-g-T 

d : *i»^ or 



rkr. 



S2: 






3 ii ^1 ii rI § g§ S g 



(NC^INC^ e^O) 



-n-a. 






^iOCO»C »C03 h- ^ 



IB 

00 00 o 






99 9 9 



H sr S § § 



00 o o 



0000 00 



%_ §i ^^ ii pi I i§ § § 

d 00" do 00 00 d od d d 



?3Bj:jxa-qsy 



0606 



ii* d 00 



a. o 

OD u 

l§ 



qsy 



■»OBj:)xa 



^; §1 |3 g ^^ ^ § g 



g<e^ 00 00 00 o 00 o o 



t» ooo to ?4'« iSr* obo 00 r* Oeo « ao K> 

eO(NMM cow CO N N^ CO NN tO'-* i-N —-- -^ d-^ « W — ' 



OllBH 

loqooiB 
-lOjaoXio 



88 



N.CO 



88 



0. o 

OD O 

i§ 



loaaaXio 



loqooiv 



do" 



So «C0 N-^ Ot I 
rt «co» "flr* CO- 



«ot» oo> 






iClTABJQ 

ogioadg 



8S 



i««C 



§5 SS 5Se S gg S 5 



e<c<i (N 



c^ r*o> eoe* 



»0 WINCO 

C^ O 33 O 
0500 



S5 s 

03 o o 
od d 



M >CQ '^O QiO 9 tr Q X 

o oco ow) 99 c«c« o 09 9 r« 

^ oS is ii ss I §§ § s 



00 00 o 



S :c 



id 

§5 



-«^ 

S 3 

•o 
o 

pa 



ill 



."£0 



ccaagccg 



ess : 

11= 




600 WINE 

alcohols, aldehydes and ethers, such as caproic, caprylic, acetic, malic, 
butyric, enanthic and pelargonic. They arise by the oxidation of alcohol 
or by the action of ferments" (Tibbies). 

"The substance enanthin, or enanthic ether, demands special mention. 
It is derived from a hypothetical fatty acid (enanthic acid) contained in 
the stones, stalks, skins of the grapes, and in the waxy fat which gives to 
the grapes their bloom. This acid is not found by itself in wine, but only 
in the combined or ethereal form. It exists in the proportion one part in 
every 40,000 of wine. Along with glycerin and succinic acid it is mainly 
responsible for the peculiar "vinous" smell and taste characteristic of all 
wines" (Hutchison). 

Effect of Wine on Digestion. — The influence of wine on digestion is 
no more satisfactory than that of spirituous liquors, wine having a much 
more powerful inhibitory effect on salivary digestion than spirits. Rob- 
erts, writing on this subject, has come to the conclusion that if one per 
cent of sherry or hock were present in the digesting mixture, the conver- 
sion of starch was almost entirely inhibited. This effect of wines is 
entirely due to their activity. It has been shown that claret of 0.7.5 per 
cent acidity has a markedly retarding effect on salivary digestion, while 
the influence of a sherry of 0.54 per cent and a port of 0.42 per cent was 
very much less. 

The experiments conducted by Chittenden confirmed these results. 
It has been found that if the more acid wines are mixed with vichy 
water, the acidity is neutralized and the inhibitory effect prevented. As 
a general rule, the stimulant action of any wine depends chiefly upon its 
alcoholic content. It is well known that the natural wines contain only 
about half as much alcohol as the strong or fortified wines, so that two 
bottles of good claret or hock are about equal, as far as alcohol is con- 
cerned, to one bottle of port or sherry. It may therefore be said that 
fortified wine is about twice as great in stimulating action as that of a 
natural wine. The more dilute the alcohol is, the more slowly it will be 
absorbed and the less chance of a large quantity flooding the tissues at one 
time. It must also be taken into consideration that the ethers and other 
volatile constituents of wine exert a certain modifying influence upon the 
action of alcohol; consequently, wines which are rich in these elements 
may be expected to have a different effect from those* which are lacking 
in these constituents. When all due weight is given to such modifying 
factors, it is safe to conclude that it is only the weaker or natural wines 
which are adapted for habitual use as accessories of the diet. 

From clinical experimentation, we have already learned that from 



WINE AS A SOLKCE OF NUTRIMENT 601 

one to two Hiiid ounces of alcohol is about the amount that can be aafely 
taken during a twenty-four-hour period. A bottle of good claret or hock 
contains about two Huid ounces of alcohol ; therefore, we may conclude 
that half a bottle daily of such wines is a safe allowance for a aedenUry 
individual and a whole bottle is enough for a man of more active life. 
The fortified wines, on the other hand, should be reserved aa medicines. 

Wine as a Source of Nutriment.— Ah a source of nutriment, wine is 
much inferior to milk. It is estimated that the alcoholic content of ordi- 
nary wine yields seven calories per gram and the sugar four calories per 
gram. Wine, then, will yield from fifteen to forty-five calories per ounce, 
according to the proportion of alcohol and sugar. Gwxl natural wines, 
sound and unsophisticated, are among the best stimulante to digestion. 
At the same time they form a combination of various principles which 
invigorate the body and arouse the nutritive and blood-making functions. 
IsTo changes occur in the stomach other than dilution of the gastric juice. 
No digestive effort is required, and the wine is absorbed by osmosis. Tlie 
aroma and bouquet stimulate taste and appetite, and after ingestion the 
aromatic substances possibly favor nutrition by stimulating the glands 
of the alimentary system and the manufacture of red blood cells. 

A small proportion of iron in some wines renders them a valuable 
adjunct to the diet for those who are unable to digest green vegetables or 
other iron-bearing food. It also renders this kind of wine of value in 
anemia, chlorosis, general debility and other diseases in which iron is of 
therapeutic value. A generous wine, therefore, is well adapted to the 
digestive apparatus and is of value in convalescence from acute illness, 
in general debility, atony of the digestive organs, and especially for daily 
use by the inhabitants of cold, damp countries. These effects are not at- 
tributed to the alcohol alone, though undoubtedly the alcohol contributes 
very largely to the effects of the vine; but the special combination of 
ethers, alcohol, aldehydes, etc., is believed to give to wine as a daily bever- 
age a superiority over spirits such as whiskey, brandy or rum. Bouchar- 
dat in summing up the question says, "that, with the same proportion of 
alcohol, wine rich in tannin and astringent principles excites the brain 
less than strong wines or spirits." 

Use of Wines. — It must not be overlooked that the abuse of wine 
leads to the same evil effects as the abuse of other forms of alcohol. Some 
wines, especially port and sometimes claret, provoke an attack of gout 
and, like all other forms of alcohol, may be the means of causing gastric, 
hepatic, renal, vascular and nervous diseases. In summarizing the points 
just gone over in this section on the use of wines in health and disease. 



602 VINEGAKS 

the author feels he can do no better than quote from the conclusions of 
Antsie(39) : 

(a) Wines for daily use by healthy adults should not on the average contain 
more than 10 per cent absolute alcohol (by weight) and 8 to 9 per cent is better. 

(b) If wine is used as the daily drink, it is best, as far as may be, to use only 
one kind at a time and no other form of alcoholic liquid. 

(c) Sound natural wines are to be obtained at the best economic advantage 
from the Bordeaux district; the red wines are to be preferred. 

(d) Rhine wines (white) are equally excellent, but more expensive. 

(e) Hungarian wines are also in many instances excellent, but they are unequal 
in quality owing to defects of manufacture. 

(f ) Greek wines labor under the same defects. 

(g) The fortified wines, as a class, develop no proper vinous qualities till they 
have been for some years in bottles. Sherry, however, is greatly superior to the 
other wines of this class in the rapidity with which it develops the volatile ethers. 

(h) Fortified wines in small quantities, especially sherry, for the reason just 
named, are the appropriate stimuli of certain kinds of infantile and youthful 
debility and of the enfeebled nervous system of old persons. 

(i) Half a bottle of a natural wine a day for a sedentary and a bottle a day 
for a vigorous and actively employed adult affords a reasonable and prudent 
allowance of alcohol. This quantity of wine, either alone or with water, will be 
enough to satisfy the needs of moderate persons for a beverage at lunch and din- 
ner, the only two meals at which alcohol should, as a rule, be taken. 



VINEGARS 

Cider and Perry. — Cider and perry, derived from the juice of the 
apple and the pear, respectively, may be spoken of here, for they are 
really to be considered as wines. Cider, indeed, when first made in 
England in the thirteenth century was always called "wine.'' 

Cider is an alcoholic beverage made by the fermentation of the juice 
of apples. Perry is made the same way from the juice of pears. The 
manufacture of cider in England began about 1284, and in Normandy, 
where it took the place of beer, somewhat earlier. It is no doubt a far 
more ancient beverage, but of this we have no definite data. "Cider is 
made late in the autumn from many varieties of apples. The usual cri- 
terion for the suitability of the fruit is the specific gravity of the 'must' 
before fermentation. Good cider cannot be made from juice with a spe- 
cific gravity below 1.040. 'Must' of this density yields a beverage con- 
taining 4.085 per cent of alcohol and 2.688 per cent sugar." Apples which 
ripen in October are considered best for making good cider. The fruit is 
gathered and allowed to mellow under cover for a fortnight; it is then 



CIDEU AND PEURY 



603 



ground into pulp and left in vats for thirty hours. The pulp is then 
pressed and the gallons of liquor run into u clean vat and left there for 
some days until it has cleared. It is then racked, chiriHed and the clear, 
bright liquid run into casks and bun^n-d. Terry is made in a very similar 
way. If a "sparkling" beverage is desired, fennentation is allowed to be 
completed after bottling. These lM«vcrages are mihlly alcoholic, contain- 
ing from 3 to 8 per cent of alcohol by volume, or much the same propor- 
tion of alcohol as beer, ('ider that is bottled before the (completion of 
fermentation is called "champagne cider." Vinous fermenUtion, which 
is completed in the bottle, produces a "still" dry cider with less heating 
properties than hock and less acid tlian ^Moselle wines. 

COMPOSITION OF CIDER.— Both ( ider and perry eontain the stimulat- 
ing and fragrant ethers found in champagne. These are developed by 
maturation and become greater with age. Cider also contains malic acid, 
salts, sugar, albuminoids and extractives. As a rule, cider is a refreshing, 
invigorating beverage, possessing diuretic and laxative properties. It is 
prone to undergo acetic fermentation after a time which renders it unfit 
for use. 

VINEGAR. — Vinegar is an ancient condiment. Its origin is lost in tlie 
mists of antiquity. Boaz, a rich (citizen of Bethlehem, is represented in 
the Bible as providing vinegar for his reapers to drink (1312 b.c), a 
custom which still prevails in Spain and Italy. It is made by the alco- 
holic and subsequent acetous fermentation of the juice of the apple and 
contains not less than four grams of acetic acid in 100 cubic centimeters 
at 20° C. Although this product is a condiment, it is thought best, while 
discussing products made from fruits, to describe it here and give its 
action and uses in the chapter devoted to condiments. 

The fermentation of vinegar is brought about by the organism known 
as Mycoderma aceti, and may be induced under proper conditions in weak 
alcoholic solutions from any source. Besides cider vinegar, there is found 
on the market wine or grape vinegar, glucose vinegar, malt vinegar and 
spirit and distilled or grain vinegar. Wood vinegar or acetic acid, which 
is made by the destructive distillation of wood, may not by law be used 
in any food products in the United States. 

Vinegar Plant.— The vinegar plant, or "mother of vinegar," is a 
tough gelatinous substance (40), in appearance somewhat like an animal 
membrane, and requires for its growth albuminous substances and min- 
eral salts which are always present in wine, beer, etc. If these substances 
are absent, the vinegar plant has no influence on alcohol, unless soi.ie alka- 
line phosphates are added to supply the food elements. This vinegar 
40 



G04 



VINEGAES 



H 



P 



< 

w 

:^ 

<< 

o 

CO 

H 

OQ 
>H 
hJ 

<! 



Polari- 
zation, 
Cane 
Sugar 
Scale 


. ift q t-| c<i TtH th 00 






q c^ Tti (N lo t- 


H 1 


^05 1>^ o id CO o CO 






^* -^ 00 Tj^' 00 d 


«Ti iTTTT 






Tt^ CO ^ <M rjH CO 

1 1 1 1 1 


ar- 
►nic 
cid 


1 -S ■ -"O ■ 










S : S 


■ »— 1 rH 






'.'.'.'.'. 




0^<! 


: :dd : 












pu, "^ 












"Sooco^-hOoo • 


^ 




05 CO lO Tfi i-H 05 Ci 


O o o o o o o 


t 




SSSSSS g 


c 




d d d d d d d 




55c0050coOiO<:0 


i> 


. 


lO O CO ^ CO 00 T^ 


f^ 


0^051:^'— i05t-(i-hO 


i> 


. 


»— 1 t^ GO !>. CO -^ (M 


^ 


"CO(MCOCOCO^IO 

S o o o o o o o 


a 


5 


CO (N (M CO CO CO CO 


c 


> 


^d>c^(Z^d>d> d 


Free 
Acids, 

as 
Malic 


?, (MOOOst^^CO 




1 


lO (N lO (M 05 00 lO 


oSddddddd 

pLn 




> 


CO o t^ o o t^ o 




■1 


lO CO CO CO Tf rfH <M 


c 


> 


d>d>di(5d)d> d 


11 


ocoooooiopoos 


a 


) 


CO lO iq 00 t^ 05 i— 1 




^cor-Ji-Htdidcoid 

Ph 


c^ 


5 


d d d CO d d oo' 


3 


Scoiocot-hocs^ 
ofNOOOcOr-it^iq 


ir 


5 


1— 1 !>. lO CO I>- r- 


H lO 


O >5^ fl 


Tt 


^ 


00 t^ (N CO CO i^ 


l:^ 


^ id d i>^ l6 id d T}H 


CC 


5 


d d d ^* d c/- 


5 tA 


^ 










r=; -^^ 


4J 










i^-a 


i^g^^gi^s 


l> 




lO i-H O CO lO cc 


5 O 






1 


CO CO (M TjH lo a 


\ ^. 


^ riH 00 d TtH ^* id CO 

PM 


\r 


5 


d>d>d>c6c^c^ 


I i-H 


j§.^ 


(M CO t^ -^ CO CO CO 


^ 


■1 


i:^ CO t^ CO (M li; 


3 lO 




CO O O O Ol Tt^ o 


ir 


5 




5 lO 


*o *>• 




H 


lO lo lO (N lO O- 


5 -^ 


mo 


q 8 8 q q q q 


C 


1 


q q q q q c 


\ P 




^ '-H 


Num- 
ber of 
Analy- 
ses 












^ (M CO TfH lO o t^ 






T-H (N CO TJH lO CC 


> 












Serial 
Num- 
ber 


O (M CO --ti lO O l:^ 






05-Ht-oooi 


; 


So 00 So 00 oo So o 






g^S§S§S§S3i 


' 


•^ •^ ■^ ■^ T^ TJH T^ 






^ ^ TjH Ttl ^ Tt 








t-. . • • 

O) . . ■ 




^ 


















: si 


-rJ . . . 






















. 3 


o : : : 




a 


















• a 


^ ^ 




t^ 


















o^ 


0-^ 
»^' ' 




















1 


b3 


|i 




3 
















g 


'^ c^ 


P^:. 




% 






•>S 




H 














*^-l 




<J 


g ^ 


>,'fcr 




'a 






C3 3 S 5S 




O 
53 








o 

o 




sr 


^3 










0- 


T3 3 3 « a 

o 


bfi 
c3 




T30 vT g^ d 

^1 Si""! 


< 


8^.^ §^. . . . 


1 






^ 


^ ^. . . >. 








M^ f 




Oi 

















CIDER AND PEUKV 605 

plant appears as a heavy thick scum in the barrel on the upper surface 
of the vinegar. The conditions necessary for its development closely 
resemble those required for the development of beer yeast In the manu- 
facture of cider vinegar, according lo the ohl pnM-ess, the cider is allowed 
to ferment in the cellar in barrels with open bungholes. The addition of 
old vinegar or "mother of vinegar" accelerates this pr(K!e8s, which is com- 
pleted within three to four days. Whereas, without the "mother of vine- 
gar'' added, the process requires a much greater time. 

Cider Vinegar. — Cider or apple vinegar is the purest vinegar for 
table use. It is a product of the alcoholic and 8ubse(|uent acetous fermen- 
tation of apple juice and contains malic acid and various ethers from the 
fruit. It is levo-rotatory, has a specific gravity 1.013 to 1.015 and should 
contain not less than 4.5 per cent (4 per cent according to United States 
regulations), and a maximum of G per cent of absolute acetic acid. On 
evaporation it should yield not less than 1.6 or an average of 3.0 per cent 
of apple solids; the ash should be not less than 0.25 per cent, and the ash 
from 100 c.c. of vinegar should contain not less than 10 milligrams of 
phosphoric acid (1^2^)5) ^^^^ require not less than 30 c.c of a decinormal 
acid solution to neutralize its alkalinity. Davenport found that the solids 
are usually 3 per cent and never fall below 2 per cent of apple solids. 
This residue is a soft, mucilaginous, viscid substance, having the flavor 
and odor of baked apples, somewhat acid, but not astringent to the taste. 

Varieties of Vinegars. — Vinegars are manufactured from various 
other substances recognized officially by the United States Department of 
Agriculture Food Inspection Decision 140, Feb. 27, 1912, viz.: 

Wine vinegar, grape vinegar, is the product made by the alcoholic and 
subsequent acetous fermentations of the juice of grapes. 

Malt vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent 
acetous fermentations, without distillation, of an infusion of barley malt 
or cereals whose starch has been converted by malt. 

Sugar vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent 
acetous fermentations of solutions of sugar, syrup, molasses or refiner^s 
syrup. 

Glucose vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent 
acetous fermentations of dilute distilled alcohol. 

Several questions regarding these definitions have been raised, and 
after investigation the board has reached the following conclusions: 

Meaning of the term ''vinegar/' AVhile the term "vinegar*' in its 
etymological significance suggests only sour wine, it has come to have a 
broader significance in English-speaking countries. In the United States 



606 VINEGAKS 

it has lost entirely its original meaning and when used without a qualify- 
ing word designates only the product secured by the alcoholic and sub- 
sequent acetous fermentations of apple juice. 



EEFERENCES 

In preparing this section, the author has derived much help and 
drawn largely from the following published works : '^Climatology of Min- 
eral Waters of the United States," by Dr. A. N. Bell ; "Text Book of 
Hygiene/' by George H. Eohe ; Parkes' "Hygiene, Balneology and Ampelo- 
therapy" ; articles by Kirsh, Hinsdale and Peals ; Cohen's "Physiological 
Therapeutics/' vol. ix; "The Evolution of Natural Mineral Waters," by 
Wm. Kirby; "Hygiene and Public Health," by B. A. Whitelegg; "Lead 
Poisoning by Water," Journal of State Medicine; "Hygiene and Public 
Health," by L. C. Parkes; "Mud Baths," British Medical Journal; re- 
ports from many health resorts in the United States; "Hydrotherapy," 
by Diffenbach, published by Rebman Company; Tibbies' "Food and Hy- 
giene," published by Rebman; Gould's "Medical Dictionary.^' 

Water 

1. Pavlov, Ivan^ Petrovitch and Parastschuk. Ztschr. f. phys. 

Chemie, 1904, pp. 42, 415. 
BuRGE. Am. J. Physiol., 1912, pp. 29, 330. 

2. Cohen. Physiological Therapeutics, vol. ix, p. 416. 

3. Shoemaker. Practical Therapeutics. 

4. TiBBLEs, William. Food and Hygiene. 

5. Robin. Bull. Acad, de Med., 1891, vol. xxi. 

6. Cohen. Log, cit., p. 447. 

7. Hawk. Univ. Penn. Med. Bull., 1905, vol. xviii, p. 7. 

8. Strauss. Deutsch. med. Wochenschr., Nov. 7, 1912. 

9. Fowler and Hawk. J. Exper. Med., 1910, vol. xii, p. 388. 

Tea, Cojfc.e and Cocoa 

10. Mann. J. Asiatic Soc, Bengal, 1901. 

11. Bannister. Cantor Lectures, 1890. 

12. KozAi. College of Agriculture, Japan, Bull. !N'o. 7. . 

13. Hughes. J. Soc. Arts, Jan. 25, 1895. 

14. Tibbles, William. The Origin and Manufacture of Foods. 



CIDEU Ai\D PKUKY 607 

15. Palgrave. Central and Eastern Arabia, pp. 1-424. 

16. Levisic. Arch. d. rhann., ser. ;3, vol. viii, p. 294. 

17. Banmstek. Cantor Lectures, 1890. 

18. lliDENouK. Am. J. rharnu, 1891, p. 207. 

19. Uffelmann. Ztsc'hr. f. ang. Chem., 1894, 

20. EoBKKTs. Digestion and Diet, p. 120. 

21. KoBEKTsoN. J. Anat. k riiysiol. 



Malt Liquors 

22. In the preparation of this section, the author has consulted and 

drawn largely from the following works: p:ffront's **Enzyme*'; 
Jorgensen's ''Micro-organisms of Fermentation"; Southby*8 
"Practical Brewing"; Thausing's "Malt and Beer"; Syke's 
"Principles and Practice of Brewing"; Moritz and Morris's 
"Science of Brewing"; Hansen's "Studies in Fermentation";- 
"Analyses of Ale," by Chittenden and Mendel ; American Jour- 
nal of Medical Science, 189G; Crampton, "Fermented Alcoholic 
Beverages," U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. 13 ; Robert's "Diges- 
tion and Diet," p. 119. 

Stimulants 

23. In preparing this section the author has derived much help from the 

following sources: "Pharmacologic and Physiologic Action of 
Alcohol," by Abel; "Alcohol — How It Affects the Individual 
and the Community," by Henry Smith Williams, M.D. ; "The 
Influence of Alcoholic Beverages on Digestion and Secretion," 
by R. H. Chittenden; ''An Experimental Inquiry Regarding 
the Nutritive Value of Alcohol," by Atwater and Benedict; 
"Final Experiments on the Elimination of Alcohol from tho 
Body," by Antsie, Practil:ioner, 1874; "Study and Stimulants," 
by A. A. Reade; "The Physiological Action of Alcohol," by 
Sir Lauder Brunton, Practitioner, 1876; "Foods, Their Origin, 
Composition and Manufacture," by William Tibbies; "Source 
and Chemistry of Foods," by E. H. S. Bailey, PkD. ; "Food 
and Dietetics," by Robert Hutchison. 

24. SwiENTOciiowsKi. Ztschr. f. klin. ^Med., 1904, vol. xlvi, p. 284. 

25. Dixon. Tr. Brit. Med. Assn., 1904. 

26. Cabot. Boston Med. & Surg. J., July 23, 1904. 



608 VII^EGARS 

27. Abel, John J. Physiological Aspects of the Liquor Problem, vol. 

ii, p. 91, pub. by Houghton Mifflin Co., New York. 

28. . Pharmacologic and Physiologic Action of Alcohol, Bal- 
timore. 

29. Chittenden, R. H. Influence of Alcoholic Beverages upon Diges- 

tion and Secretion, Yale. 

30. Williams, Henry Smith. Alcohol — How It Affects the Indi- 

vidual and the Community. 

31. Kraepelin and Kurz. Kraepelin's Psychologische Arbeiten, 1900, 

vol. iii. 

32. TiBBLEs, William. The Origin and Manufacture of Poods. 

33. . Loc, cit 

Wine 

34. In obtaining material for this section the author acknowledges in- 

debtedness to the following publications: ^'Composition of 
American Wines," by W. D. Bigelow, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bulletin 59 ; ''What is Wine ?" by Dupre^ 
Popular Science Keview ; "On the Uses of Wines in Health and 
Disease," by Antsie; Keport on Sherry Wine, the Lancet, 1898; 
"A Treatise on Wines," Scientific Library, 1896; "On the Com- 
position of Wines," Bence Jones, 1857 ; "The Use of Alcoholic 
Liquors," by Bouchardat, Bulletin 59, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture ; "On the Use of Wines in Health and Dis- 
ease," by Antsie; "La Sophistication des Vins," 1884; "Die 
Chemische Untersuchung und Beurtheilung des Weines," Ber- 
lin, 1896. 
36. DupRE. Pop. Sc. Rev., vol. vii. 

36. TiBBLES, William. The Origin and Manufacture of Foods. 

37. Bigelow, W. D. Composition of Amer. Wines, U. S. Dept. Agric, 

1900, Bull. 69. 

38. Bence, Jones. Composition of Wines, 1857. 

39. Antsie. The Uses of Wines in Health and Disease, pub. by Mac- 

millan Co., 1877. 

40. Van Slyke. A Study of the Chemistry of Home-made Cider 

Vinegar, K Y. Agric. Exper. Sta., 1904, Bull. 258. 



CHAPTER XVII 



SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 



Sugars: Sugar Cane; Raw Sugar; Beet Root Sugar; FJorghum Sugar; 
Maple Sugar; Palm Sugar; Loaf Sugar; Cube Sugar; (Granulated 
Sugar; Powdered Sugar; Rock Candy, Burnt Sugar or Black Jack; 
Molasses; Sirup— Sorghum Sirup, Commercial Sirup, Mixed Sirup; 
Saccharin; Glucose; Confectionery — White Candy, Sugar Drops, Soft 
Candy, Hard Candy; Honey. 

Spices and Condiments: Bay Leaf; Sage; Mace; Spearmint; Sweet Mar- 
joram; Sweet Basil; Summer Savory; Peppermint; Parnley; Tarra- 
gon; Wintergreen ; Thyme; Cherry Laurel Leaves; Fennel; Capera; 
Cloves; Saffron; Cassia; Cinnamon; Turmeric; Carlic; Ginger; 
Horseradish; Sassafras; Allspice; Capsicum; Juniper; Pepper; Va- 
nilla Bean; Anise Seed; Cardamon; Caraway Seed; Celery Seed; 
Coriander Seed; Cumin Seed; Tonka Bean; Dill Seed; Fennel Seed; 
Grains of Paradise; Mustard; Nutmeg; Salt. 

Pickles and Salads: Pickles — Cold Slaw, Sauerkraut, Sktshi; Sulada. 



SUGAR 

Sugar as an article of diet is of such great importance, both for its 
pleasant taste and nutritive value, that it is well to devote more than 
ordinary attention to its consideration. It is conceded that most people 
eat as much sugar as they can get, and that the consumption of sugar in 
different countries is, in general, proportionate to the wealth. 

Only two plants — ^the sugar cane and the sugar beet — play an impor- 
tant part in the world's supply of sugar. The manufacture of sugar from 
the sap of the maple and palm trees is a relatively small industry when 
compared with the production of sugar from the sugar cane and sugar 
beet. 

Sugar Cane. — The sugar cane, which is the oldest and best known 
sugar-producing plant, grows only in tropical and semitropical countries. 
In appearance it resembles the Indian corn in many ways, and like it, 
produces a jointed stalk varying from eight to fourteen feet in height 
Sugar cane is a native of India, and is frequently mentioned in the writ- 
ings of the ancient Chinese and in the old sacred books of the Hindoos 

609 



610 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

many centuries before Christ. According to Strabo, the historian, the 
Greek soldiers under the command of Nearchus, an Admiral of Alexander 
the Great, saw the cane growing in India at the time of the conquest and 
brought the plant with them on their return 325 b.c. Subsequently it 
was brought by the merchantmen who traded with Persia and India for 
spices, perfumes and costly merchandise. The Greek warriors became 
accustomed to its use during the invasion, and brought back stories of the 
wonderful reed which yielded a juice "sweeter than honey." The Per- 
sians and Arabians introduced the cultivation of sugar cane westward, 
and we find that sugar was both grown and refined in the valleys of the 
Tigris and Euphrates in the tenth century a.d. The Crusaders, in 1096, 
found sugar cane and sugar factories in Syria and Palestine(l), and 
brought back samples of the product upon their return from the East. 
The Saracens introduced the cultivation of sugar cane into Sicily, and 
the Moors into Spain; the Spaniards introduced sugar cane to the New 
World during their voyages of discovery and colonization (1750). In 
this way the sugar cane was gradually brought westward from its original 
home in India, and is now found throughout the entire tropical and semi- 
tropical world. 

The present leading sugar-cane-producing countries of the world are 
British India, Cuba, Java and the United States, including Porto Rico, 
Hawaii and the Philippine Islands. 

The nature and origin of sugar were but little understood by the 
early European consumers. It was supposed to be a form of manna, and 
was thought to exude from the stem of a plant or tree, and dried like 
gum "white and brittle." Others supposed it to be a form of "honey made 
from reeds." The important sources of sugar in nature are the sugar 
cane, sugar beets, sorghum or Chinese cane, sap of sugar maple trees, date 
palm trees, sap of ash trees of southern Europe, the bamboo, honey, raisins 
and milk of mammals. 

Several different varieties of sugar enter into the composition of arti- 
cles of diet, but for practical purposes they may be divided into two 
groups: 

(1) Sdcroses or disaccharids {C^Jl22^^^) (a) Cane sugar — Sucrose 

(&) Beet sugar " 

(c) Maple sugar " 

(d) Malt sugar — Maltose 

(e) Milk sugar — Lactose 

(2) Glucoses or monosaccharids (C^HjgO^) (/) Grape sugar — Dextrose 

(g) Fruit sugar — Levulose 
(h) Invert sugar 



SUGAR 



611 



The sugar cane is propagated by planting the seeds from the flowering 
tops of the previous crop in plowed furrows, apd another variety from 

cuttings, okainod from tho joints of the cane stalk. When the sprouU 
of the young cane appear ahovc ground, thoy arc cultivated in a similar 
manner to the corn crop, with the exception that when the rainy season 
begins, the cane crop is left to grow for varying lengths of time, depend- 
ing on the locality and clinuitic conditions, etc. In Ix)uisiaiui the crop 
is matured and ready for harvesting in less than a year, while in II;iu;iH 
the plant is allowed to go for two years. 

The plants blossom or flower when a year old, and in from four to 
five months after flowering, the canes are completely ripe and contain a 
sweet viscid juice. They are then ready to Ikj harvested. They are cut 
down close to the ground and the tops and leaves removed ; the stripped 
stalks are now taken to mills where the juice is expressed by grinding 
and crushing between revolving cylinders. The cane stalk contains about 
85 per cent of juice, but in the usual process of grinding, a little more 
than 50 per cent is obtained, some of the best mills expressing GO to 65 
per cent; consequently 25 to 30 per cent is left in the refuse called tho 
''begasse." This is dried by passing it over the boilers on conveyors, 
and is then used for fuel in the furnace. The largest mills at the present 
time have a capacity of a thousand tons of cane in twenty-four hours. 
The composition of sugar cane and the juice obtained from it are given 
in the following table from Tibbles(l): 

COMPOSITION OF SUGAR CANE AND JUICE 



Water 

Sugar, crystallizable. . . 

" uncrystallizable 

Nitrogenous matters . . 

Fatty matters '. 

Cellulose 

Ash 



Entire Sugar Cane 


Sugar Cane Juice 


71 to 76 


79.44 to 83.83 


14 « 18 


15.64 « 20.90 




.120 - .30 


.35 to .55 
.15 « .35 


I 


.023 • .37 


8.86 « 9.56 
.35 « .48 




.014 ■ .25 



The juice, as obtained from the grinding of the sugar cane stalk, is 
quite dark colored and turbid, containing considerable organic matter 
other than sugar. This is removed by passing through wire screens to 
eliminate the coarse fiber. It is then neutralized by lime, which precipi- 
tates organic matter and checks fermentation. Next it is submitted to the 
action of sulphurous acid gas, either before or after the addition of lime. 



612 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

This process is known as "defecation." The lime neutralizes any of the 
acid that may he left in the juice and thus prevents some of the sugar 
from "inverting" or changing into the uncrystallizable invert sugar. It 
is then subjected to a temperature of 170° to 180° F., w^hich coagulates 
and separates the suspended materials. These rise to the surface as a scum 
and are removed. The juice is now filtered through bone-black or animal 
charcoal. The clarified juice obtained by the defecation and filtering 
process is now evaporated in the so-called "multiple effect" vacuum pans. 
After remaining for some time in the first pan it is transferred to the next 
and afterwards to the next and the next — a series of four pans. Bailey 
says: "The air in the first pan of the multiple effect is exhausted to such 
an extent that exhaust steam from the engines and pumps of the factory 
will, when entering the steam, jacket of the pan, cause the juice, under the 
partial vacuum, to boil and thus concentrate. The steam arising from the 
boiling juice of the first pan enters the jacket of the second pan, and as 
the vacuum of this pan is higher, the temperature of the steam from the 
first supplies sufficient heat for further evaporation." Tibbies, in de- 
scribing the crystallization point in the manufacture of sugar, says: "It 
becomes more concentrated in each pan, and in the fourth reaches the point 
of crystallization. It is then transferred to the coolers where it is allowed 
to ^grain' or crystallize, being afterwards put into a cask which has a 
number of holes in the lower part, temporarily stopped with plugs. When 
the chief mass is crystallized, the plugs are removed and the liquid residue, 
or Molasses,' is drained off; the crystals constitute raw sugar J^ The 
above is a more or less succinct description of the imperfect process of 
manufacturing sugar which has lately been replaced by improved methods, 
especially by concentrating the juice to the point of crystallization in a 
vacuum pan and removing the molasses by centrifugalization. 

According to the "modern process" (2), after the clarified juice has 
been evaporated to a sirup, it is run into a steam vacuum "strike pan," 
which is a large boiler heated with steam coils, and is connected with an 
exhaust pump so that a very high vacuum can be maintained ; this brings 
about the ^'graining or crystallization' of the sugar. When the mass be- 
gins to crystallize, additional sirup is allowed to run in from time to 
time, until the pan is finally filled with the crystalline sugar, mixed with 
molasses. In this high vacuum the ebullition is violent, and unless the 
sugar boiler is watchful, some of the sirup will be carried over with the 
vapor into the condenser ; this is called entrailment and is a source of loss 
in sugar manufacture. 

The supervision of the vacuum pan in operation requires more skill 



SUGAR 613 

than any other operation in the sugar factory; meticulous care must be 
exercised, (a) to prevent *'entraihnent" and (6) to build up the sugar 
crystals of uniform grain and size. The principal aim of the l)oiler is 
to build up these crystals without fonning new ones. He controls this 
process by frequently drawing out samples, and examining them upon a 
glass, against the light. If very fine new crystals are seen among the old 
ones, he reduces the vacuum, thus raising the temperature, which promptly 
dissolves this false grain, as the fine crystals •are called. By skillful 
manipulation, which only comes with long experience, the sugar boiler 
is able to turn out sugar with crystals of uniform size, as in ordinary 
granulated sugar. 

When the vacuum pan becomes filled with a thick magma of sugar 
crystals (sugar and molasses) known as "masse-cuite," it is transferred 
to a mechanical mixer, which keeps the mass in motion by means of re- 
volving arms. This mixer is situated over a row of centrifugal machines, 
and when of uniform consistency, it is run into the "centrifugal." This 
machine was first successfully used for this purpose in 1860. The inner 
walls of the revolving drum are lined with fine brass meshing, and as the 
drum revolves, the masse-cuite is whirled against the meshing, which holds 
the sugar, but allows the molasses to pass through. After spinning at 
from 1,000 to 1,200 revolutions for a few minutes, until as much of the 
molasses as possible is removed, the revolving mass is sprayed with a 
fine spray of water or jet of steam to remove any of the film of mo- 
lasses which remains adhering to the crystals; the amount of spraying 
regulates the whiteness of sugar. Tn Louisiana a very pure, white sugar 
is produced which has several sprinklings or sprayings of water; the 
sugar analyzes over 99 per cent pure sucrose, the remainder being mostly 
moisture. 

The centrifugals are stopped when the removal of molasses has reached 
its limit, and the sugar is passed through the bottom of the drum into a 
conveyor. Thence it is transferred to the packing room, and after being 
placed in bags is ready to be shipped. As there is much moisture in the 
raw sugar from the centrifugal, in certain countries this sugar is put 
into revolving drums for drying before it is packed in bags. There are 
two advantages in this drying process: first, the removal of superfluous 
moisture, the weight of which would increase the cost of transportation ; 
and, second, drying sterilizes the sugar and protects it against the inroads 
of ferments and bacteria. At this stage salts of tin are sometimes used 
for clearing the sugar; and now and then ultramarine blue is added to 
offset the delicate yellow tinge. 



614 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

The use of ultramarine is objectionable, as sugars subjected to this 
process are not fit to be used for certain purposes, for example, in the 
manufacture of fruit sirups. 

The term "first sugar" is applied to that made from the pure cane 
juice, while the molasses obtained from draining this sugar is known as 
"first molasses." There is a large sucrose content in the latter, and 
different methods are employed for obtaining from this as much as will 
crystallize. A "second sugar" is obtained by reboiling the molasses and 
washings from the first "masse-cuite" and running the product through 
the centrifugals. A "third sugar" is the article recovered through process 
of concentrating the molasses of the "second sugar." Such a molasses 
may still contain, however, 30 per cent sucrose. There is also present 
about 30 per cent invert sugar, 8 to 10 per cent of ash, and 8 to 10 per 
cent of gums, organic acids, amino compounds, etc. 

Raw Sugar. — Eaw sugar, or musavado, is the product of the crude 
open-pan process of manufacture ( 3 ) . These raw sugars are now imported 
into the United States for refining. The raw sugars come principally 
from Demerara, Barbadoes, Cuba and Brazil. These sugars contain from 
95 to 98 per cent pure sugar. The removal of the remaining impurities 
is carried out in sugar refineries, usually situated in places where fuel 
is more abundant than in the tropical countries where the sugar cane 
is chiefly cultivated. The difference in price between raw and refined 
sugar is from 0.7 to 0.9 cents per pound, while the cost of refining is 
estimated at from 0.6 to 0.65 cents per pound, leaving only a small mar- 
gin of profit to the refineries, so that it is necessary for the operation to 
be conducted on a large scale in order to make it remunerative. 

In the United States the industry is confined practically to very few 
large establishments in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, New Orleans 
and San Francisco. In one of the largest of these refineries 13,000 bar- 
rels of sugar per day are refined. Nearly all of the sugar, aggregating 
nearly three million tons, is imported, and only about 700,000 tons are 
produced in the United States. 

Beet Root Sugar — Beet root sugar was first made by Marggraff, in 
1747, and by Archard in 1796. In the early days of the Erench Bevo- 
Jution, Napoleon was induced to take a great interest in its manufacture 
because of the prolonged Peninsular War, which seriously interfered with 
.the ordinary supplies of sugar. The industry is commonly considered as 
dating from about 1810(4). The first attempt in this country to produce 
sugar from sugar beets was made at Alverado in California in the year 
1870. 



SUGAR 



615 



The cultivation of the sugar beet for it8 sugar content and purity of 
the juice does not depend entirely upon tlie variety phmted, but on the 
soil, clinuite, weather and distribution of moisture. For the best sugar 
output the beet should not bo harvested until the coming of the frost, as 
every day added to the growing season increases the sugar content. The 
greatest amount of sugar is obtained from l>eets grown in irrigated regions 
where there is an abundance of sunshine and where the distribution of 
water can be regulated. The sugar beet thrives in temperate climates, 
and the countries in which the production of sugar from l)ects is largest 
are Germany, Austria, Russia, France and the United States — the order 
indicating the amount of production. The beets of medium size are usu- 
ally of better quality than the largor ones. 

The composition of the sugar beet and sugar beet juice is given in the 
following table taken from Browne: 

COMPOSITION OF THE SUGAR BEET AND ITS JUICE 



Sugar Beet 



Sugar Beet Juice 



Water 

Dry substance 

Fiber (cellulose, etc.). . . 

Sucrose 

Invert sugar 

Ash (salts) 

Nitrogenous substances 

Gums, acids, etc 

Wax, fat, etc 



% 

75-85 

15-25 

4-6 

12-16 

0.0-0.3 

0.8-1.5 

1.5-2.5 

0.4-0.8 

0.2 



% 
78-84 
16-22 

13-17 
0.0-0.3 
0.&-1.0 
0.8-1.5 
0.3-0.6 



The sugar beet industry in the United States, begun in California in 
1870, is still in successful operation at present (5). The beets, after being 
dug and having their green tops removed, are hauled to the factory ; here 
they are washed to remove dirt, and then passed over knives which reduce 
them to fine slicings. The si icings are next carried by a conveyor to the 
diffusion battery, which consists of a series of tall boiler-shaped cylinders 
called cells. These are connected by pipes, the outlet from the top of the 
first cell passing downward into the bottom of the next and so on. Each 
cell is filled with beet slicings through a large hole at the top, and when 
full is tightly closed with a gasket fitted cover and clamped into place. 
Twelve cells connected in series comprise a battery, and when all are 
filled, warm water at about 80° C. is passed through the system. The 
water circulating upwards through the beet slicings removes the sugar 



616 SUGAK, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

from each succeeding cell. Heaters are placed between the cells so that 
the circulating water is constantly kept at an even temperature, aiding 
the process considerably. As Clausen says, ^^When the water has made 
a complete circuit through the twelve cells of the battery, the slicings in 
the first cell become practically exhausted ; this cell is then thrown out of 
circulation, emptied of exhausted chips, refilled with fresh slicings, and 
reconnected with the system, while the second cell undergoes replenishing. 
The process is thus a continuous one; ten cells are always in circulation, 
while one cell is always being emptied and one always being refilled/' 

The diffusion juice as it leaves the last cell of the battery contains 
from 12 to 15 per cent of sugar, and is ready for clarification. The proc- 
ess consists of the evaporation of the diffused beet juice by heating it with 
lime, which neutralizes the free acid and assists in coagulating the nitrog- 
enous matter. This process is called "carbonation." The juice is usu- 
ally treated with sulphur dioxid gas, which bleaches it, but care must be 
taken that the solution still remains slightly alkaline, to prevent inversion 
of the sucrose (C12II22O11). The purified juice is evaporated, as in the 
case of cane sugar. "The molasses in beet sugar manufacture cannot be 
used for making second and third sugars, as can the molasses from cane 
sugar boiling. On this account the molasses is boiled down and treated 
with lime which precipitates calcium saccharate(6) (Ci2ll220ii.3CaO), 
the latter being separated from the solution by filter presses, and the 
solid cake thus formed is returned to the 'carbonators,' where it is 
treated with carbon dioxid gas, thus again setting the sugar free." The 
juice from the second carbonation is again strained through a brass mesh 
filter, reevaporated, grained and centrifugal ized. These processes are 
carried out essentially as described in the process for the manufacture 
of cane sugar. 

Comparison of Physical Properties of Raw Cane and Raw Beet 
Sugars. — There is quite a difference in the physical properties of raw 
cane sugar and raw beet sugar. Raw cane sugar possesses a fragrant 
odor and a pleasant taste which many prefer to the refined product, while 
raw beet sugar has a bitter nauseating taste and a gluish-like odor, not 
very impelling. 

Sorghum Sugar. — Sorghum sugar is obtained from a cereal plant na- 
tive in India and largely grown as a foodstuff throughout Asia^ — particu- 
larly in China, India and Japan — also in Egypt, and to a less extent in 
the United States (7). The stalk of this grass, like the Indian com stalk, 
grows luxuriantly, with a large jointed stalk, an abundance of long green 
leaves, and with a large broomcorn-like top or blossom that contains the 



SUGAR 617 

seeds from which the pluut is propagutcd. Like the sucar cane it abounds 
in a sweet sugary jiiico, on which account the Americana, when it was 
Hrst introduced, called it the ^'Chinese sugar cane." The amount of sugar 
in the stalks varies from 8 to 14 per cent of crystailizable sugar and 1.5 
per cent of uncrystallizablo sugar. The rest is made up chiefly of starch, 
cellulose, pentosans and mineral substances. 

Sorghum sugar is easily nuide on a snuill scale, as it can be grown aa 
readily as com, and is a hardy plant. It grows from Maine to Florida, 
being more suitable for cultivatioa in the United States than the sugar 
cane. The juice is obtained in the same way as that of the sugar cane. 
Sorghum sugar can be successfully manufactured on the farm, in a small 
way, by crushing or grinding the stalk in a small horse-power mill. The 
juice is evajxirated in a series of shallow pans which allow skimming in 
the earlier stages of boiling. The balance of the prcK-ess is similar to that 
used in making sugar from sugar cane. Sorghum cane yields a sirup 
equal to that of the best sugar refineries, and although there is a little 
difficulty, owing to the presence of starch, the sugar is refined and crystal- 
lized as well as that of the sugar cane. 

Soon after the Civil War, 1861-65, owing to the scarcity and high 
price of sugar, sorghum sirup was extensively manufactured throughout 
the Southern states. In 1879 more than 28,500,000 gallons were pro- 
duced. It is a wholesome, palatable sirup and contains 36 per cent 
sucrose, 27 per cent reducing sugar. 

Maple Sugar. — The North American Indians were the first manufac- 
turers of maple sirup(8). All species of the maple tree yield a sweet sap, 
but the silver maple, red maple and black maple are species best adapted 
for making sugar. The sap of the tree abounds in sucrose or cane sugar, 
which is obtained in the following manner: In the early spring, while 
the cold is still intense, the tree is bored on the south side of its tnmk 
with an auger in tw^o places five inches apart, at a height of about twenty 
inches from the ground. The holes, one-half inch in diameter, are made 
obliquely upwards so that a tube fixed into them directs the sap into a ves- 
sel placed below. Sometimes the tube is a piece of elderwood with the pith 
removed. The sap flows for about six weeks during the warm, sun- 
shiny days and frosty nights of early spring; it is collected each day, 
strained and boiled at once, never being kept longer than twenty-four 
hours. It is boiled in open pans or kettles to the point of crystallization 
and is then poured into moulds, where it sets. "Maple sugar is not usually 
refined, as that would destroy the peculiar characteristic of the sugar. 
A good quality of maple sirup weighs 11 pounds to the gallon. The 



618 SUGAE, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

sucrose content is 62.6 per cent and invert sugar 1.47 per cent. The 
maple sugar and sirup industry is principally confined to the following 
states : New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and the New Eng- 
land states. In 1909, 4,106,418 gallons of sirup were produced and 
14,000,000 pounds of maple sugar were made. It is prized chiefly for 
its ethereal substances which produce flavor and aroma.'' In the early 
period of the American Colonies, in addition to honey, maple sugar was 
the chief sweetening substance, and it was very cheap. Under the im- 
proved methods of making sugar from the cane and beet, these have 
largely taken the place of maple sugar. The liquid which drains from 
the crystals is "maple sirup," which is prized as a table sirup. 

An average tree yields about four pounds of sugar in a season, each 
pound being derived from four to five gallons of sap. The maple sugar 
is dark brown and has the following composition: 

Cane sugar 89.00 per cent 

Glucose 2.50 " 

Ash 54 " 

Moisture 4.30 " 

Undetermined 3.66 " 

Maple sugar is very easily made : the farmer needs no other machinery 
than a few pans or kettles in which the sap is concentrated, and the moulds 
in which the sugar crystallizes while the sirup drains away. The farmer 
can manufacture 200 or 300 pounds in two or three weeks. It can be 
made very easily in the modern vacuum-pan and centrifugalizer. The 
sugar can be refined, and 100 pounds will yield about 83 pounds of re- 
fined product. As already indicated, refining is rare, because the demand 
for the unrefined product is equal to the output, and besides its flavor is 
destroyed by the refining process. 

Palm Sugar. — Palm sugar, also called ^^date" or "jaggery" sugar, has 
been used in India from time immemorial, and is consumed throughout 
the East (9). The juice from which the sugar is made is obtained by in- 
cisions in the tree or flower stalk of the palm tree and by the natives is 
called "tardy." The juice contains a large amount of cane sugar or 
sucrose. It is readily fermented and forms palm wine, which being dis- 
tilled yields the spirit known as "arrack." This beverage, which is in 
common use among the Hindoos and Malays, often contains 50 per cent 
of absolute alcohol. In sugar making the sap is neutralized by lime, 
boiled immediately, filtered and clarified as in the making of sugar from 
the sugar cane juice. Three quarts of sap are necessary to produce one 
pound of sugar. The sap contains more glucose or invert sugar than 



SUGAR 619 

sugar cane juice does ; consequently the product is of low quality and re- 
mains as moist or raw sugar. According to Tborpe't "Dictionary of Ap- 
plied Chemistry," the composition cf palm sugar ia aa follows: 

Cane sugar 78.00 [ter cent 

Glucose H.1I3 " 

Moisture 6.74 ** 

Undetermined 3.76 " 

Formerly it was imported inti* luirope in considerable quantities, 
especially when the sugarcane harvest was poor; but owing to tlie devel- 
opments of the beet sugar industry, there is now little demand for pulni 
sugar. It is principally in demand at the present time by brewers and 
distillers. 

Comparison of Production of Sugar Cane, Sugar Beet, Sorghum 
Cane, Maple Tree Sap and Palm Tree Sap. — The foregoing briefly out- 
lines the production of sugar from nngar cane, sugar beet, sorghum cane, 
maple tree sap and palm tree sap. Until about 1810 sugar cane fur- 
nished practically the world's supply of sugar; since that time the beet 
sugar industry has developed by leaps and bounds, until about 1884, when 
the amount of production of sugar from the two sources was about the 
same. By 1889 almost twice as much sugar was made from beets as from 
cane — largely due to the fact that the sugar industry in Cuba had been 
almost extinguished by the Spanisli-American War. Soon after the res- 
toration of peace in Cuba, the amount of production of sugar from beets 
and cane again became about alike. Tt is estimated that the world's pro- 
duction of sugar in the year 1912 and 1913 amounted to 9,178,574 tons 
manufactured from sugar cane and 8,968,064 tons manufactured from 
the sugar beet. The production of sugar by the ten leading countries for 
the same period of time is given by Browne (10), as follows: 

SUGAR PRODUCTION BY COUNTRIES 

(1) Germany 2,700,913 tons (Beet) 

(2) British India 2,583,800 " (Cane) 

(3) Cuba 2,428,537 « • 

(4) Austria 1,901,615 - (Beet) 

(5) United States and (\M6J73 (Cane) 

Its Colonies 1,770,837 • 624,064) (Beet) 

(6) Russia 1,374,500 - - 

7 Java 1,331,180 « (Cane) 

8 France 960,900 • (Beet) 

(9) Holland 316,177 « - 

(10) Belgium 298,584 

The total amount of sugar consumed in the continental United States 
is nearly 4,000,000 tons or 8,000,000,000 pounds, or about 85 pound.<i 
41 



620 



SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 



per capita. The value of the sugar consumed in the United States at the 
present (1917) prevailing war prices is $72,000,000. 

The following table gives the sugar consumption per capita — all kinds 
included — and the retail cost per pound to consumers: 

CONSUMPTION OF SUGAR PER CAPITA IN LEADING COUNTRIES 

OF THE WORLD 





Consumption per 
Capita 


Retail Price per 
Pound, 1911 


Great Britain 


91.63 
84.23 
79.20 
76.34 
57.98 
47.91 
42.84 
10.10 
7.90-7.94 


5 
5 

5.69 
5.10 
8.00 
5.90 
5.90 
14.00 
8.70 


cents 


Denmark 


(( 


United States 

Switzerland 


« 


Sweden 


u 


Germany 


u 


France 


u 


Italy 


u 


Servia 


u 







Sugar refining is not absolutely necessary so far as raw cane sugar is 
concerned, as it has a sweet aromatic taste and can be used without refin- 
ing for all domestic purposes. The raw beet root sugar, as we have al- 
ready learned, is not so agreeable ; it has a soapy taste and an odor resem- 
bling glue which renders refinement essential. 

Principles of Sugar Refining. — The first principle in refining sugar 
consists in washing off as much of the molasses which adheres to the crys- 
tals of raw sugar as is practicable; then the crystals are dissolved, puri- 
fied and decolorized, and the sugar recovered in a purified state by re- 
crystallization. While the process is simple in principle, the large scale 
upon which it must be carried out and the extreme precautions necessary 
to guard against apparently small losses if the industry is to be econom- 
ically successful, require elaborate equipments and constant chemical con- 
trol which we will not undertake to describe here. Those interested can 
find an elaborate description of the process in an article by Home, of 
Columbia University, published in the School of Mines Quarterly, April, 
1911 ; also an article by Browne, School of Mines Quarterly, 1913, and 
Davoll, Technical Account and Chemical Control in Sugar Manufacture, 
Journal of Industrial Chemistry, 1913, vol. v, pp. 231-234. 

Loaf Sugar. — According to Tibbies, "Loaf sugar is produced as follows : 
Masse-cuite of a known density is heated to 187° F. and poured into 
moulds ; when cold it consists of a mass of fine crystals. The moulds are 
left for trwelve hours until the sugary mass is so thick that there is no 



SUGAR 621 

danger of the crystals settling out and forming an unequal mixture. The 
spigot is then drawn, a wire pushrd into the sugar two or three inches deep, 
and it is left to drain. After twenty-four hours the sirup ceases to run, and 
the surface of the loaf is then hardened by pouring in a highly concen- 
trated sirup. In twenty-four hours more the loaves are removed from 
the moulds ; they are then racked for ten to fourteen days in a drying room 
where the temperature is 120° F." 

Cube Sug^ar — Cube sugar is cut into shape by clippers or machinery. 
The process for making cube sugar is longer than that used in the manu- 
facture of loaf sugar. Pure white moist reiined sugar is mixed with 
enough sirup to hold the crystals in a mass. This is passed by a hopper 
into a centrifugal machine. The latter consists of a revolving drum on 
which are arranged a series of moulds for forming the sugar into cubes. 
The hopper is above the moulds, and the sugar passes from the hopper to 
be pressed by a plunger into the moulds. Later the cubes, still moist, are 
dried in a steam-heated stove. 

Granulated Sugar. — Granulated sugar is produced from a sirup at the 
masse-cuite stage. The liquid is quickly concentrated until it shows a 
sharp grain, after which it is centrifugalized in order to separate sirup 
or molasses. Washing removes from the crystals any remaining sirup or 
debris. The sugar is now ready for the granulating machine. This 
machine consists of a steam-heated double cylinder arranged at an incli- 
nation. Into one end of the cylinder are poured the moist crystals, which, 
as the machine revolves, fall upon the central heated cylinder. The 
moisture is carried off by an air current passing through the large cyl- 
inder. The inclination of the cylinder causes the sugar to pass down 
gradually to the lower end, from which it emerges as snow-white crystals. 
The last step in the process is the sorting of the crystals into (a) large 
or coffee crystals, (b) medium crystals, i.e., ordinary granulated sugar, 
and (c) small crystals, or castor sugar. 

Powdered Sugar. — Powdered sugar is obtained from the waste made 
from the cutting of loaf or cube sugar and from the dressings left in)m 
granulated sugar. These remnants are reduced to a powder in a disinte- 
grator, and passed through several dressing reels to separate it into vari- 
ous grades of fineness. 

Rock Candy. — Kock candy is the purest form of cane sugar. It is 
made by dissolving cane sugar and heating to 230° F. In this solution 
strings are suspended, and as the solution cools, the sugar crystallizes 
upon the strings. In order to obtain good crystals, the sugar solution 
must stand for several days in a warm room, where the cooling takes place 



622 SUGAK, SPICES AND COIS^DIMENTS 

slowly. Flowers and fruits may be suspended in the sugar solution, 
and the product is known as "crystal flowers and fruit." 

Caramel, Burnt Sugar, or Black Jack. — This is prepared by heating 
sugar to the temperature of 374° to 406° F. In this process the chem- 
ical composition of the original sugar remains unchanged, although the 
properties of the product are entirely transmuted. Caramel is slightly 
bitter, but gives an agreeable flavor to confectionery. It is extensively 
used to give a brownish color to food products. Its principal use is that 
of an adulterant. 

Molasses. — Molasses is obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of 
crystallized sugar. According to the definitions and standards of the 
Association of Official Agricultural Chemists, '^Molasses is the product 
left after separating the sugar from the masse-cuite, and contains not more 
than 25 per cent of water and not more than 5 per cent of ash. This 
standard would practically confine the term molasses as a commercial 
designation for human food to material of the nature of the ^first mo- 
lasses' of modern sugar manufacture." The "mother liquor," as the 
chemists call it, from which the sugar has been crystallized, is the molasses. 
It contains, besides sucrose, some of the uncrystallizable sugar of the orig- 
inal juice and all the "invert sugar" produced in the process of manu- 
facture, besides those of soluble impurities and the mineral salts of the 
original juice. 

Sirup. — Sirup, on the other hand, is the product obtained after the 
evaporation of the original juice from which no sugar has been removed; 
as a result, we have sugar cane, sorghum and maple sirup. Of these, 
maple sirup commands the highest price. In the process of manufactur- 
ing cane sugar by the open pan method, the juice is boiled down in open 
pans or kettles and passed from one to another as it reaches a certain 
degree of concentration, and finally run into shallow tanks and stirred 
until it becomes a crystalline mass of sugar and molasses. It is then 
dumped into hogsheads provided with holes in the bottom, and allowed 
to drain for some time. The resulting product, called "raw sugar," is 
put upon the market, and the molasses which runs into cisterns beneath the 
hogsheads is shipped as "New Orleans molasses." In the manufacture 
of sugar by the vacuum process, the drippings and workings of the first 
masse-cuite are boiled down to make a "second sugar," and the drippings 
from this boiled to make a third masse-cuite. The "third molasses" 
necessarily contains all the impurities of a considerable amount of juice. 
The last molasses according to this process is known as "black strap." It 
is fermented to make alcohol and used to some extent as a food for mules 



SUGAR 



623 



and southern ue^rrocs. Oikmj pan sirup, or sugar cane airup, iiiakro a 
very satisfactory molasses^ 1 1). This sirup is mado by clarifying and 
evaporating the sugar cano juice to a consistency in which 2r> to ;jb im 
cent of water remains. During the process tlie scum is carefully rem<»ved, 
and the final sirup is strained. No lime or other chemical is used in the 
process. Sugar house molasses is obtained in the process of sugar ref.ning, 
and has already been referred to. 'Jliis molasses is of a much lighter 
color than the product from the sugar factory (black strap), but contains 
a very large amount of organic substance other tlian the sugar. It is 
not a suitable food unless used in small (juantities. 

Molasses Produced by the Open Kettle Process of Boiling Molasses pro- 
duced in this way is the most highly appreciated, and is a suitable article 
of diet in the South, where it can oidy l)e obtained, since the modem 
process of sugar making has practically eliminated this open kettle 
method from the market. To supply its place, the manufacture of sirup 
directly from the sugar cane and without the separation of any kind of 
sugar has come to be practiced extensively in Georgia, Alabama, Florida, 
Lonisiania, Mississippi. This sirup fonns a delicious, wholesome and 
valuable condiment, the use of which is rapidly extending — and owing 
to its wholesomeness it should become an important food product. 

The color of sirup does not by any means foretell its taste or food 
value. The dark color in some sections is still associated in the minds of 
many with the flavor of old-fashioned molasses. Molasses of a light color 
is preferable for the table, and while the light colored varieties are very 
popular, it does not signify that the brown colored sirup is not a good 
quality. 

Difference in Composition between Molasses and Successive Crysialli- 
zations of Sugar. — The following table from Wiley (12), containing the 
analysis of first, second and third molasses, will illustrate the difference 
in composition between molasses and successive crystallizations of sugar: 

COMPOSITION OF FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD MOLASSEB 



Water 

Sucrose (cane sugar) 
Dextrose (glucose) . . 
Levulose (fructose). 
Acids and gums. . . . 

Proteins 

Amids 

Ash 



First 


Second 


Third 


Molasses 


Molasses 


Molaim 


% 


% 


% 


20.00 


20.00 


2000 


53.60 


41.70 


31.70 


8.76 


12.20 


15.00 


8.00 


12.50 


16 50 


4.50 


6.50 


S.20 


0.20 


0.25 


0.30 


0.94 


1.50 


2.00 


4.00 


3.35 


6.30 



624 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

SORGHUM .SIRUP. — Sorghum sirup is extensively manufactured in the 
Middle West, Kentucky, Tennessee, Missouri, Kansas, Texas, Georgia 
and North and South Carolina, the sorghum cane being grown extensively 
for the manufacture of sirup for local use. Soon after the Civil War this 
industry was carried out on an extensive scale, due to the high prices of 
sugar. In 1879 more sorghum sugar was manufactured in the United 
gtates — 28,500,000 gallons more than before or since. Sorghum sirup 
is very easily made on a small scale, as the cane can be grown as readily 
as corn and is easily crushed in a small mill operated by horse power. 
The juice obtained is evaporated in a series of shallow pans which allow 
skimming in the earlier stages of boiling. The sirup is wholesome and 
nutritious, and on account of its peculiar piquant, pleasing flavor it is 
very palatable and inviting. It contains about 36 per cent of sucrose and 
27 per cent of reducing sugar. The yield of sorghum is from 50 to 100 
gallons of sirup per acre. 

COMMERCIAL SIRUPS.— Many of the sirups on the market are mix- 
tures of various saccharine products, which contain glucose as their 
base; and while they may be wholesome, they are not so sweet as sirup 
made from sugar cane. In making this sirup the glucose is warmed (18), 
and with it is mixed some maple sirup, brown sugar, refiner's molasses, 
cane sugar molasses, or sorghum molasses. In many states the manufac- 
turer is required to label this product, naming the percentage of each 
ingredient in the compound. The chief excuse for the sirups i& their 
cheapness. They are liable to contain an excess of mineral impurities 
or bleached substances which make them unwholesome. It is beyond 
question that any such sirup can ever compete in delicacy of flavor or in 
wholesomeness with pure maple sugar or the open pan sugar cane sirup 
or plain sorghum sirup. 

MIXED SIRUPS. — Mixed sirups contain coloring matter and flavoring 
substances which distinguish the brown or yellow raw cane sugar from the 
white refined sugar as it appears in commerce. The characteristic flavor 
of the raw sugar which is thus left in the sirup in the refining process 
is preferred by many people to the mere sweetness of sucrose or glucose; 
however, the refiner's sirup is in demand for mixing with commercial 
glucose sirup. Other mixed sirups are made from commercial glucose or 
corn sirup, with refined sugar cane sirup. The product is practically 
colorless with sorghum sirup made by boiling down the juice of the sor- 
ghum cane, or with sirup made by concentrating the juice of the sugar 
cane without removing any of the sugar. Other mixed sirups are thus 



SUGAR 



625 



made by mixing either glucose or sucrose with maple simp. Commer- 
cial and mixed sirups ditTer chiefly from the maple, cane and sorghum 
sirup ill their color. The former ^omkIh should !h» m inarke*! that the 
purchaser may know whether they (oiitain glucose or whether they are 
true sirups made from cane juice without any of the sugar rcmovetl. It 
should be observed that the glucose in the mixed and ccmimercial sirup 
frequently contains recognizable quantities of sulphuric aci<l, and if the 
acid be impure, it may also contain arsenic; there may also Ik? a little 
sulphuric acid used for bleaching, and the salts are chiefly sulphates 
and chlorids. The composition of various sirups is given in the table 
below (14): 



THE COMPOSITION OF SIRUPS, PERCENTAGES 



Maple Sirup: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Twenty analyses: 

Average 

Cane Sirup: 

Average 

Sorghum Sirup: 

Average 

Golden Sirup: 

Average 



Water 



19.01 
40.26 

31.40 

25.80 

28.60 

22.70 



Sucrose 



22.94 
64.45 

64.10 

52.00 

36.70 

39.00 



Invor- 
tose 



Trace 
32.79 

1.30 

17.60 

26.60 

33.00 



Ash 



.33 
1.14 

.30 

1.20 

4.00 

2.50 



Unde- 
ter- 
mined 



1.80 
25.65 



2.80 



Authority 



Wiley, Chem. Nevn, 
1885, ii, 89. 

WUey, "Foods," 
etc., p. 473. 



"Practical Gro- 
cer," ii, 163. 



The adulterations to which molasses and sii-up are liable have already 
been referred to (p. 622). Ultramarine when added to granulated sugar 
or sirup is considered an adulteration ; so also are the salts of tin, which 
are indeed poisonous (p. 623). It is considered permissible to add starch, 
not exceeding 1 per cent, to powdered sugar, so that the latter will retain 
its pulverulent nature and not betx)me lumpy; but the addition of any 
mineral substance such as chalk or magnesium for this purpose should 
not be permitted. Sulphites in any quantity remaining in the sugar 
sirups or molasses is injurious to health (15). 

Saccharin. — Saccharin, CgH^CO. SOgNH, is a white crystalline coal 
tar product, soluble in 400 times its bulk of cold water. When pure it is 
550 times sweeter than cane sugar. It is not a sugar, neither does it pos- 
sess any nutritive properties, and there seems to be considerable proba- 



626 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

bility that if taken continuously for a long period of time, it would be 
injurious. In the United States its use is not allowed in foods or bever- 
ages, and its manufacture is forbidden in Germany and Italy. The Ref- 
eree Board of Food Inspection, in Decision No. 135, reported to the Secre- 
tary of the Treasury, says: "The continued use of saccharin for a long 
time in quantities over .3 of a gram per day is liable to impair digestion." 
The addition of saccharin as a substitute for cane sugar or other forms 
of sugar reduces the food value of the sweetened product and hence lowers 
its quality. The findings of this Board show that saccharin in food exerts 
a deleterious effect upon the health of the consumer. 

Saccharin is neither a vegetable nor a mineral substance; it is not a 
condiment, because it does not stimulate; it is not a food, because it does 
not nourish ; it is not a drug, because it possesses no curative properties ; 
it is not a food accessory, because it is a laboratory manufactured chem- 
ical. It is sweet, but unlike sugar; it takes away the appetite without 
appeasing through any nourishing properties. 

Glucose. — Glucose, properly speaking, is the generic name for the 
hexoses (CgHioOe) or six carbon-atom carbohydrates, and more particu- 
larly of dextrose, or grape sugar, which occurs in so many plants and 
fruits. Commercial glucose, according to Bailey, is obtained by boiling 
starch with acids. "The process depends on the principle of the 'hydrol- 
ysis,' as it is called, of starch by heat and dilute acid. The manufacture 
of the starch and its conversion into glucose are more economically con- 
ducted in the same factory. In the United States, the starch is manufac- 
tured from corn. It is accomplished by steeping the corn until it is softened 
to loosen the germs from the grain. The meal is ground fine. The next 
process consists in 'inverting' the starch, and this is accomplished in 
large copper boilers by the use of about six pounds of hydrochloric acid 
to 10,000 pounds of starch (16). After being heated for some time under 
pressure, it will be found that no starch remains. The free acid is then 
neutralized with sodium carbonate, and the solution is decolorized by fil- 
tering through bone black. It is then passed into vacuum pans and concen- 
trated by methods similar to those employed with cane sugar juice. The 
concentration is carried to the point of producing a heavy, thick sirup 
which contains about 35 per cent of dextrose, from 4.6 to 19.3 per cent 
of maltose, and from 29.8 to 45.3 per cent of dextrin." 

Glucose is very extensively used as a constituent of many table sirups, 
as a sweetening in the manufacture of jams and jellies; it is also used 
in making artificial honey and as a substitute for malt in brewing. Glu- 
cose is deficient in sweetening power as compared to cane sugar. The 



SUGAR 627 

relation is about 3 to 5. The total amount of giucciue and grape sugar 
produced annually in the United StateH \h alxnit one billion poundB, and 
in this industry no less than tifty million buHbclH of corn are uned. This 
product is the output of a very few factories which control this manu- 
facture. 

There is a great demand for artificial glucose or sUrch MUKar, which 
is produced by a combination of dextrose, maltose, dextrin and unfer- 
mentable bodies. Although prepared for immediate absorption from the 
stomach and intestine and for assimilation, pluco8e(17) is of little service 
for flavoring other articles of fm)d, for when ho used it is apt to produce 
flatulent dyspepsia with acid eructations. If glucose is eaten as a food 
in the form of candy or otherwise, it overloads the system by being too 
promptly absorbed. 

Confectionery. — Included under this heading are various products 
manufactured largely from sugar of one kind or another. Flavoring and 
often some coloring material are used. In certain instances the latter is 
developed by cooking. The sweets are ''boiled'' or "unlwiled," accord- 
ing to the method of treating the sugar. In some of these pnxlucts pure 
cane sugar alone is used; in others cane sugar and commercial glucose 
or invert sugar are combined. The desired consistence is attained by 
boiling or other methods. By dipping fruits and flowers into concen- 
trated firups the former are preserved entire. By a similar proces-s, 
nuts and seeds are converted into candy. On account of the variety of 
materials used in confectionery they are difficult to classify. However, 
cane sugar or glucose is the basis of all confectionery. Among other 
materials used are flavors, extracts, coloring matter, gum arabic, milk 
products, gums, flowers, fruits, caramel and chocolate. In moulding 
certain kinds of candy, starch is used, a little remaining in the fin- 
ished product. Rock candy has already been described on page 621. 
Cane sugar only can be used for making the best quality of cream 
candy and bonbons. Starch is used in moulding some varieties of 
confectionery, and is present in small quantities in the manufactured 
product. 

White Candy. — White candy is the product when pure loaf suerar 
has been used. It consists of 80 per cent of cane sugar and 20 per cent 
of water of crystallization. Colored sugar candy is made chiefly in Hol- 
land, Germany and Belgium, from white or brown sugar. 

Sugar Drops. — Sugar drops and small sweets of various kinds are 
m.ade by evaporating cane sugar sirup do\^Ti to the crj'stallizing point 
until it hardens. 



628 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

Soft Candy. — According to Bailey, soft candy is made by heating- 
sugar in water to which cream of tartar and a few drops of acetic acid 
have been added. This mass is rapidly heated, usually in a copper kettle, 
until the temperature of 246° E. is reached, when it is poured on a marble 
slab and partially cooled. It is then worked with suitable tools until it 
creams — an operation quite similar in its results to the old-time method of 
''pulling the candy." This product is used as a basis for the manufac- 
ture of cream chocolates and similar confections. It may be warmed and 
run into moulds of various shapes. 

Hard Candy. — ''Hard candy," according to Bailey, "is produced by 
mixing cane sugar, glucose and water, and bringing the mixture to a tem- 
perature of 310° to 330° E. ; then it is poured onto a slab as with soft 
candy, and the flavor, usually an essential oil, added. In working the 
batch on the slab, the edges are continually turned in toward the center. 
After it has been worked and there is a tendency to become 'hard,' it is 
thrown over a hook placed on the wall, and 'pulled' until it becomes 
white. The mass is then warmed and suitable portions are taken to a 
table and rolled by hand to form stick candy." 

THE ADULTERATION OF CONFECTIONERY.— This process is being 
carefully watched by the Department of Agriculture at Washington. A 
few vegetables and a few animal colors are admitted to be satisfactory, 
but mineral colors are universally condemned. The aniline coal tar 
colors, which have lately come into common use for coloring confection- 
ery, have not been looked upon with favor by the Department of Agri- 
culture. The use of glucose bleached by sulphites is another source of 
danger, and with sugar selling at $7.60, and glucose at $4.40 per hundred- 
weight, one can readily understand the temptation of the manufacturer 
to substitute the latter for the former in the making of confectionery. 
The use of mineral substances, poisonous colors or flavors or any injuri- 
ous substance is discouraged by all reputable confectioners in the making 
of candy. The practice of coating with shellac chocolate or other confec- 
tionery is not allowed. It is estimated that more than $80,000,000 is 
spent annually in the United States for confectionery. As an illustra- 
tion of the demand for confections, it may be stated that during the 
Spanish-American War, one New York firm (18) shipped over fifty tons 
of confectionery to the troops in Cuba, Porto Kico and the Philippines. 

Honey. — Honey is defined by the Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists and by most food chemists as the nectar and saccharin exuda-* 
tions from the nectariferous glands of plants and flowers gathered into 
the dilated esophagus of the bee, afterward disgorged, modified and stored 



SUGAR 629 

in the comb by honey bees. Besides its unquestioned food value, honey 
is a somewhat forgotten nMnedy for many diseases. Pythagoras claimed 
that honey prolonged his life for many yearri, and ancient Qreeka at- 
tributed many virtues to it. The very fact that the honey bee subsists 
entirely on tlie nectar gathered from flowers and plants, many of which 
have a medicinal value, suggests that honey must contain many of the 
virtues which the bee extracts for its f(H>d. Genuine honey is a food like 
none other; the sugars contained in it are dire<*tly aHsiniilable. lloncy 
imj)arts to the human economy more fuel value than meat or eggs. Thtj 
energy or fuel value of an egg is 815 calories, while one ounce of honey 
furnishes 95 calories. The industrious honey bee gathers the nectar from 
flowers and plants for its daily subsistence as well as for a future store 
during the season when there are no flowers. Honey has been used by 
man for food from the earliest davy of which we have any record. In 
prehistoric times, it was probably the only sweetening substance known to 
mankind. . It has, however, lost much of its importance as a confection 
since the production of cane sugar on such a large scale. At the present 
time, whether considered as a delicious article of food or the base of a 
wholesome vinous beverage,^ it is of no mean value as a food product. 

Professor Reclam strongly suggests that honey be used more largely 
instead of ordinary sugar, since the formic acid which it contains prevents 
fermentation and its accompanying symptoms of flatulence and toxemia. 
An analysis by Professor Bunge of Basel, Switzerland, shows that, while 
sugar contains no lime or iron, honey has 6.70 per cent of lime and 1.20 
per cent of iron, and as our food is so frequently deficient in these two 
elements, owing to demineralization — e.g., white patent flours, polished 
rice, etc. — the desirability of substituting honey for sugar is urgent and 
obvious. 

The glucose and fructose sugars contained in honey are readily assimi- 
lable, while cane sugar must first undergo changes in the alimentary canal 
before it can be absorbed. Therefore, if cane sugar is not properly di- 
gested, it leads to fermentation, acidosis and symptoms of indigestion and 
subsequent catarrh. As will be seen from the analysis given below by 
Bunge, honey has a combined 76.10 per cent of grape and fruit sugar, 
and should be preferred to manufactured cane sugar whenever possible. 
A further study of this analysis emphasizes the great value of the organic 
mineral salts, especially lime and iron. The antiseptic formic acid adds 
to its value as a health food. 

1 See Metheglin described under the heading of Beverages and Stimulants. Chap- 
ter XVI. 



630 SUGAR, SPICES AND COIS^DIMENTS 

The analysis of honey, according to Browne and Bunge(19)_, is as 
follows : 

Analysis by Browne Analysis by Bunge 

Water 17.70 per cent Water 14.00 per cent 

Sucrose 1.90 " " Sucrose (Cane Sugar) 2.00 " " 

Fructose (Levulose) 40.50 " " Fructose (Fruit Sugar). . . .34.60 « « 

Glucose (Dextrose) 34.48 " « Glucose (Grape Sugar). . . .41.50 " " 

Dextrin 1.51 " « Calcium 6.70 « « 

Ash 0.18 « « Ferrum 1.20 " « 

Undetermined 3.73 " " 

In some instances genuine honey has been found to contain as much 
as 8 per cent of sucrose; more than that would usually show that the 
honey is either abnormal or adulterated. The differences in flavor are 
largely due to the characteristic ethereal substance found in the nectars 
of different flowers. Some flowers yield nearly all glucose or dextrose, 
and others chiefly sucrose. The saccharine matter having been extracted 
from the nectaries of the flowers by the bee, the sucrose is inverted to 
glucose by the invert in enzyme in the intestine of the insect, secreted 
as honey, deposited in the cells of the comb, and sealed over with wax. 
Honey is either extracted or sold in the comb. Honey in the comb is more 
delicate and aromatic than that which has been extracted for some time 
from the comb. 

The color, flavor and odor of honey are chiefly due to the foreign 
substances in it — namely, to the flowers from which the nectar was gath- 
ered. It is the possession of these characteristics which causes certain 
honey to be so highly prized. The honey bee is one of the most valuable 
of insects on account of cross-pollinating the flowers of various economic 
plants. 

There are a number of instances on record in which several people 
have been poisoned by eating honey gathered from poisonous flowers. 
Sometimes such honey causes headache, nausea, and even a kind of intoxi- 
cation, but fatal illness seldom results. The soldiers of Xenophon, in his 
^^Retreat of the Ten Thousand,'' were poisoned by honey, which, though 
it did not act fatally, caused those who ate a small portion of it to become 
intoxicated, and those who ate it freely to become delirious, and finally 
exhausted. Honey is a viscid, transparent liquid or soft opaque mass, 
becoming gradually more opaque with age, crystalline, and of semi-solid 
consistency; it varies in color from white or pale yellow to yellowish- 
brown or reddish-brown (20). It has a characteristic odor and sweet taste, 
is exceedingly nutritive, demulcent and laxative. The quality of honey is 
much influenced by the character of the flowers visited by the bees. The 



I 



SUGAR esi 

dillereiit varieties are ^'buckwheat liouey," which is of a dark color and 
has a str()n«r Havor; "white clover lioiiey," which huH a rcpiiUtioii of po«- 
sessing the most delicate taste; "sour w<HMi hoiiev," which is alno much 
appreciated for its picpiant taste and deli<-atc wliitish api)earance. Honey 
made from the flowers of the alfalfa, apple hloHH<unH, golden nxi, gum 
tree and basswood has in each case its own characteristic flavor. The pro- 
duction of honey in the United States, according to statistics, shows that 
California leads in its production. Other in)portant honey-producing 
states are New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Ohio. The average yield 
per colony — gum or hive, runs from twenty-five to tliirty pounds of comb 
honey. 

The ingenuity of man has devised a metliod of aiding the honey bee 
in producing greater amounts of honey. Artificial honey combs are now 
made from paraffin, and are stamped into cells to imitate tiie original. 
This enables the bees to devote all their time and energy to the manufac- 
ture of honey, instead of wasting time in the manufacture of honey comb. 
Bee-keepers have long since recognized the saving of time and labor on 
the part of the bee by supplying the comb ready made. 

Digestibility of Sugar 

The first factor which determines the digestibility of sugar is its chem- 
ical form. No matter in what form sugar is taken into the stomach, it 
can only be assimilated as a monosaccharid (dextrose or levulose). We 
learned in the chapter on absorption that provision is made in the alimen- 
tary canal for the conversion, by means of suitable ferments, of all forms 
of sucrose (disaccharids) into dextrose and levulose. It is of importance, 
then, from a trophodynamic viewpoint, to consider the sucroses as undi- 
gested and the glucoses as predigested sugars. It is readily understood, 
then, that sweet fruits are important dietetic sources of sugar, for the 
reason that they contain it in a form which is fit for direct absorption 
into the circulation. Honey is therefore regarded as a very easily digested 
saccharine substance. The importance of the inversion which cane sugar 
undergoes in the manufacture of jams and preserves also becomes clear. 
For this reason home-made jams and presen'es are superior to commer- 
cial jams. 

Another factor which influences the digestibility of sugar is the de- 
gree of concentration of its solution. Strong solutions of sugar produce 
an irritating effect upon the tissues. Upon the external skin, they are 
apt to set up a superficial inflammation. This is emphasized in the 



632 SUGAE, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

eczema which is apt to appear in a diabetic from the contact of the sugar- 
laden urine with the skin, and from similar conditions occurring on the 
arms of grocers' clerks and other persons who frequently handle sugar. 

At the Minnesota Experiment Station(21), the digestion of sugar was 
studied on five healthy men; five ounces per day were consumed as part 
of a simple mixed diet. The sugar showed a high digestibility, 98.9 per 
cent of its total energy, on an average, being available to the body. In 
general, it increased the energy 25 per cent and did not affect the digesti- 
bility of the foods with which it was combined. The protein of the ration 
was more economically used than commonly. The nitrogen retention was 
increased 25 per cent. It was pointed out in discussing these experiments 
that the value of sugar in a ration depends upon its judicious use and 
combination with other foods. 

Experiments were carried out by Brandl on a number of dogs, and he 
"found that 5.7 per cent of sugar produced reddening of the mucous mem- 
brane; if the concentration was increased to 10 per cent, the mucous 
membrane became dark red, while a 20 per cent solution produced pain 
and great distress." Another investigator, Atchison Robertson (22), in 
carrying out a series of experiments, injected 250 c.c. of the 20 per cent 
solution of sugar into the stomach of a patient who was suffering from 
chronic gastric catarrh. "Shortly afterwards the patient became sick, and 
vomited a very acid fluid which put his teeth on edge. He also com- 
plained of heartburn and flatulence, and of a severe pain in the region of 
the stomach.'^ Another experiment was an injection of a solution of invert 
sugar of the same strength, which produced no discomfort. The experi- 
ment was repeated with similar results in other cases of dyspepsia, and 
in every case the invert sugar produced no unpleasant symptoms. 
Schule found that from two to six lumps of cane sugar, when taken in an 
ordinary test breakfast, produced no appreciable effect on the digestion, 
but when the quantity was increased from ten to twenty lumps, con- 
siderable delay of digestion ensued, by reason of the great outpouring of 
mucus in the stomach. In this connection he says "that one can easily 
take from 80 to 100 grams of sugar at dessert in the form of ices and 
sweets, but that a retarding action on digestion of a meal will not infre- 
quently be manifested.'' 

The tendency of sugar to undergo fermentation affects its behavior 
in the stomach. The varieties of fermentation likely to occur are: 

(a) Alcoholic, resulting in the production of alcohol and acetic acid. 

(h) Butyric, with the formation of butyric acid. 

(c) Lactic, producing an excess of lactic acid. 



SUGAR 

It is interesting to note that ditTcrent sugars vary in the readineas 
witli which they tend to nndergt) these different forms of fermentation. 
8onie interesting experiments njM)n this |M)int have Ih*<mi made by Kob- 
ertson(23) ; aceording to the results worked out by him, the fermentation 
to which sugars are liable occurs in the following order: 



TYPES OF FERMENTATIONS OF 


SUGARS 


Lactic 


Butyric 


Alcohouc 


Levulose 
(most fermentable) 
Lactose 
Dextrose 
Invert Sugar 
Cane Sugar 
Maltose 


I/ivulose 
(most fermentable) 
Maltose 
Dextrose 
Invert Sugar 
Cane Sugar 
Lactose 


Maltoee 
(most fermentable) 
Invert Sugar 
( anc Sugar 
Dextrose 
Levulose 
Lactose 



As the result of his research he draws the following deductions: 
(a) In dyspepsia the absorption of carbohydrates is delayed, and 
therefore all sugars tend to ferment. 

(&) In dyspepsia with lactic acid formation, one should avoid dex- 
trose, levulose and invert sugar, and use cane sugar, maltose and lactose 
in moderate amount. 

(c) In butyric fermentation lactose should be preferred. 

(d) In alcoholic and acetic fermentation one should forbid invert 
sugar and levulose and give lactose. 

Of all sugars, then, lactose is the least liable to fermentation — which 
emphasizes the point that a milk diet is desirable in all stomach disorders. 



Assimilation of Sugars 

The assimilation of sugars has received considerable study at the 
hands of physiological chemists and dietitians. As a result it is conceded 
that after entering the blood it is converted by the liver into glycogen. 
What becomes of it after that is more or less disputed, but everyone is 
agreed that glycogen is the form in which sugar is stored in the body, 
for a time at least. It has been determined, however, by ph^-siological 
experimentation that all sugars are not capable of being converted into 
glycogen, and it is only those which can be directly fermented by yeast 
without first being changed into invert sugar. "Of the sugars com- 
monly consumed, cane sugar and lactose are not directly fermented by 



634 SUGAR, SPICES AND C0NDIME:NTS 

yeast, and in order that they may be stored up as glycogen, provision has 
to be made for their previous inversion.'^ This is taken care of, as we have 
learned from the chapter on absorption, by the production of certain in- 
verting ferments in the intestine which act directly on the sugars. Should 
these ferments be of feeble activity while the absorptive power of the in- 
testine is great, a portion of the sugar may reach the blood unchanged, and 
under these conditions be incapable of conversion into glycogen; sugar 
will then immediately appear in the urine, producing what is ordinarily 
termed "alimentary glycosuria." 

The fact that sugar may have a disturbing influence upon digestion 
does not mean that the sugar itself is at all likely to escape digestion. 
"The readiness with which sugar is hydrolyzed by the sugar-splitting en- 
zyme of the intestinal juice, combined with the susceptibility of sugar 
to the attack of bacteria, makes it unlikely that much sugar will pass 
through the digestive tract unchanged." Pfliiger, who has devoted so 
much attention to glycogen and other carbohydrates, says, "Undoubtedly 
sugar in the blood is heavily drawn on during violent exercise; hence the 
longing for it in a form that can be readily assimilated." 

By giving large quantities of different sugars on an empty stomach, 
and observing whether or not glycosuria results, physiological chemists 
have been able to determine the precise assimilation limit of each. The 
results of experimentation along these lines have been carefully worked 
out, and the following conclusions settled upon. It has been found, 
therefore, that the maximum quantity which can be consumed at any 
one time without the overflow of any of the sugar taking place in the 
urine is as follows: 

For lactose 120 grams 

For cane sugar 150 to 200 " 

For levulose 200 " 

For dextrose 200 to 250 " 

It has been found, therefore, that lactose is the least assimilable of 
sugars, and this fact is of some particular interest. Experiments have 
shown, says Hutchison, "that the only sugars capable of direct fermen- 
tation are those which contain three carbon atoms or a multiple of that 
number. Those which contain five, seven or any other number of carbon 
atoms cannot be converted into glycogen, and accordingly, should they 
gain access to the blood, are at once excreted in the urine." The pentose 
group of sugars with five carbon atoms occur with considerable frequency 
in fruits, and hence pentosuria, as it is termed, is not the infrequent 
result of the free consumption of such fruits. 



SUCiAU 636 

FuET. \ Ai I i; OK SrnAH ah a Twu>t> 

The fuel valiio of sugar as a hMxl inr tin* aiiiiuiil ImmIv may be consid- 
ered as the Ciiuivaleut of starch that luis Ikm'u digc'sted and made ready 
for absorption. Kefined 8u«;ar is to Ik* rej^arded as a pure cryHtalliiic 
carbohydrate; therefore its f(H)d vahie is hi^h and every gram yields 4.1 
calories of energy. An ordinary lump of loaf sugar weighs 5 grams and 
yields 20 calories of energy. The caloric energy of four such lumps is 
equal to the carbohydrate of a medium-sized potato. For these reasons, 
the amount of sugar acMod to a cup of tea or coffee contrilniteH in no Hiuall 
degi'ee to its supply of energy required by the body daily. One pound of 
table butter will yield al)out twice as much encrg>' (.*},(»00 calories) as a 
pound of sugar (1,800 calories), but at about ten times the same cost, 
for sugar is one of the cheapest fuel foods. 

Sugar is the most concentrated of all carbohydrate foods. There is 
no question but that too large quantities of sugar are consumed in the 
American cuisine. The consumption of sugar j)er capita in the I'nited 
States has increased with leaps and bounds during the past two or three 
decades. The present per capita consumption of sugar in the leading 
countries of the world is given by Browne as follows : 

PER CAPITA CONSUMPTION OF SUGAR IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES 

England 95 pounds per capita 

United States 85 " 

Germanv 49 " " " 

France 43 " " " 

Austria -^ 

Russia - ^ 

Turkey -^O " 

Spain l<i *' 

Italy 11 " " " 

Development of the Sugar Industry 

The development of the sugar industry has had a far-reaching effect 
on the national health. The tendency during recent years has been to 
consume more carbohydrate and less fat, for fat is always an expensive 
form of food. Sugar, on the other hand, can replace fat as a fuel in the 
proportion of 2Vt parts of the former to 1 of the latter, but it does not 
follow on that account that sugar can perform all the functions in the 
body which are usually fulfilled by fat. The fact must not be lost siglit 

'42 



636 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

of, however, that refined sugar constitutes an extreme case of a one-sided 
food, its sole nutritive functions being to serve as a fuel, so that the energy 
requirements of the body are met to a larger and larger extent by the con- 
sumption of refined sugar. There is a constantly increasing danger of an 
unbalanced diet, by making it deficient for the building and repair of the 
body tissue and for the regulation of physiologic processes. 

In our study of the processes of digestion and absorption, we learned 
that sugar is more rapidly burnt up in the body than fat, and on this ac- 
count a more efficient protein-sparer than the latter. This rapid oxida- 
tion is favored by the ease with which sugar is absorbed, interfering as 
it does with the complete destruction of proteins. This probably explains 
the bad effects sometimes observed from the use of sugar in the gouty 
diathesis (Volume III). It is conceded that sugar possesses undoubted 
fattening properties. Possibly it may not be transformed into fat, but it 
spares the body destruction of fat, and part of that in the diet combustion. 
Whether the fat so formed is as useful as that which can be stored up 
from the fat in the diet is an unsettled physiological question. The point 
is one of practical importance in the feeding of convalescents. 

We are of the opinion that the moderate cost of sugar has had a favor- 
able influence on the health of growing children, since it furnishes them 
an ample supply of the body fuel which they so much need. Its sweet, 
inviting taste has the advantage of being a fuel food that children are not 
likely to refuse. This is not the case with all fatty foods. Bunge has 
sounded a warning note in regard to the dangers incidental to the great 
increase in the dietetic use of sugar. He is of the opinion that where a 
large quantity of sugar is eaten, the amount of other vegetable foods in 
the diet is diminished. This may possibly result in a deficiency in the 
supply of calcium, iron, fluorin and other mineral ingredients of the blood. 

Sugar as a Food for Muscular Work 

Sugar as a food for muscular work has been referred to in the chapter 
on digestion and absorption. We have already learned that the carbo- 
hydrates are probably the general source of muscular energy. The sugars, 
on account of the ease and rapidity of their absorption, are better calcu- 
lated to fulfill this function than any other member of the carbohydrate 
group. Brillat-Savarin long ago pointed out an interesting fact that ^'the 
English give sugar to their blood horses in order to sustain them in the 
trials to which they are subjected." To Swiss guides and Arctic ex- 
plorers the value of chocolate as saccharine food has long been known. It 



SUGAR 637 

is a fact, says Abel, that the harvester, lumbcnnan and othcra wlio do 
hard work in the open air consiuuc ^^reut <piantitieH of niigar in pie, 
pudding, doughnuts and molasses, with l)cneHt. On the other hand, ikh>- 
ple living a sedentary indoor life find that largo aniounta of pic, cake and 
pudding with highly sweetened pre8crve<l fruit, and sugar in large amount 
on cooked cereals, almost always produce indigestion. 

Masso, in 1893, performed some test experiments to determine the 
exact value of sugar as a muscle food. Hy means of an instrument which 
he called an erfjograph, he determin( d that sugar possesses a notable effect 
in lessening muscular fatigue. Another investigator, Vaughan Harley, 
working under Masso's direction, performed the following experiment: 
He took 17% ounces of sugar a day, and found that his ability to per- 
form work was increased from 01 to TO per cent. He also demonstrated 
that ''the administration of sugar delayed the onset of fatigue, and that 
its effect was rapidly exerted, the maximum influence being reached 
in about two hours." Schumburg confirmed these results in regard to 
extraordinary muscular exertion. Similar experiments have been per- 
formed by Stowasser, who says, "When sugar is added to the diet, the 
ability to perform work is increased, while the fatigue and nitrogenous 
waste are lessened." The conclusion of these several investigators is that 
sugar is the most valuable food for persons who have to perfonn severe 
muscular effort, especially if they are obliged to do so in a state of ex- 
haustion. 

This brief summary shows the use which may be made of sugar when 
severe work is to be performed, and some of the experimental data which 
indicate that this use is justified. For a long w^hile the German army 
has recognized the value of these scientific experiments which they have 
made practical use of by allowing their men engaged in the autumn ma- 
neuvers to have a free allowance of sugar daily in addition to their ordi- 
nary rations. It was determined after a trial extending over five weeks 
that the soldiers who had been supplied with sugar marched better and 
suffered less from hunger, thirst and fatigue than their comrades who 
were not supplied with sugar. As a result of the experiments, the au- 
thorities recommended an increase of two ounces of sugar per day to the 
ration for the German soldiers. 

Large quantities of hrowa and white sugar are used by the natives of 
India as a common article of diet, l>eing freely mixed with milk, rice, 
cheese and other foods. It is also stated that the employers who will not 
furnish the native laborers with as much sugar as they desire, must ex- 
pect to lose their workmen. The use of sugar by mountain climbers is 



638 SUGAK, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

well known. The Swiss guide considers lump sugar and highly sweet- 
ened chocolate an indispensable part of his outfit. 

Misuse of Sugar 

From a gastronomic point of view it would seem that in the American 
cuisine possibly too much sugar is used with too many kinds of food, with 
a consequent loss of variety and piquancy of flavor in different dishes. 
The nutty flavor of grains in cereal foods and the natural taste of mild 
fruits are very often concealed by the addition of too much sugar. 

SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

According to the Food and Drugs Act of the United States, the defi- 
nition of the word food covers all articles used for food, drink, confec- 
tions or condiments. While it is true that certain of the condiments 
offer opportunity for food adulteration, still the enforcement of the pure 
food laws is sufficiently drastic to take care of the situation. 

There seems to be some misunderstanding as well as apprehension 
existing concerning the use of condiments, or as the Germans say, Genuss- 
mittel. In its translation the latter term is broader and better since we 
restrict condiments to spices, like cinnamon, ginger, salt, pepper, etc., 
which we add to food in the stage of preparation or at the table to im- 
prove the taste. Genussmittel in its broader sense embraces all our term 
implies plus the savory element of the food itself which makes it pal- 
atable. The extract of meat, the sugar and dextrin of dry toast, fruit, 
the dextrin and caffein of coffee developed by roasting, the jellies when 
taken with meats, are included under this head, also caviare, piccalilli and 
Other kinds of pickles and relishes which excite and stimulate the appe- 
tite. Many of these relishes contain sugar, starch and woody fiber also; 
in some instances, caviare, fat and protein must enter into the sum-total in 
figuring the caloric value of our food. We think it prudent to treat these 
appetizers or condiments in the Teutonic sense and to concur, in the pres- 
ent generally accepted view, that they are beneficial adjuvants to the food 
both in health and disease, since they awaken and intensify the appetite 
and stimulate the salivary and intestinal glands to secrete the juices nec- 
essary for normal digestion. Attention is directed to Volume II, Chapter 
111(24), in order to emphasize the great importance of the proper prepa- 
ration of food in cooking, so as to develop the best aroma and flavor 
which in turn induce through the special senses ^ more thorough masti- 
cation and insalivation of the food. 



SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 639 

Children and young people in nonnul health have no need for condi- 
ments, as a rule, but in adult life, under various conditions of living and 
occupation, the appetite often Hags, and when ill or during convalestM'nco 
with complete loss of appetite, it is nece«Hary to tempt the latter, and 
under these conditions, the use of condiments hccomes the sine qua non 
of treatment. 

Spices, condiments and ilavoring agents generally, in a restricted 
sense, while incapable of supplying the Ixxiy with building inateiiul or 
energy, are nevertheless imiK)rtant acquisitions for the cook, for Uiey are 
used largely in the culiuary art and nuiy with propriety be termed "food 
adjuncts." Spices and coudiuu^nts of every kind and description contain 
aromatic oils and other substances of extremely complex and variable 
composition, and play an important role in increasing the api)etite and 
in aiding the digestive functions; by exerting a stimulating effe<t upon 
either or both the organs of the taste and secretion. By their use other- 
wise insipid food is made pleasing and palatable, and monotony in the 
diet is relieved. 

Centra-indications. — Their use is contra-indicated in certain gastric 
disturbances as well as in diseases of the kidneys, in which condition they 
act as irritants. We believe it is the consensus of opinion of students of 
sitology that the consumption of spices and condiments in moderation is 
advantageous as an accessory to the diet, but at the same time their abuse 
should be interdicted, as they may serve as a contributing cause of chronic 
congestion of the liver from hyperemia and chronic gastric catarrh. When 
properly used, a flagging appetite is aroused, sluggish gastric secretions 
accentuated, and movements of the stomach and bow^els excited. These 
properties indicate their use by the middle-aged and otherwise enfeebled 
persons to give zest and increased pleasure in partaking of food. Accord- 
ing to Tibbies (25), healthy individuals with iwrmal digestion do not need 
them, and they should he withheld from children. 

Value of Spices and Condiments. — "The aromatic substances contained 
in spices and condiments are closely allied to phenol on the one hand, and 
to the resins and balsams on the other." They are excellent antiseptics, 
and by their aromatic and sedative action exert a soothing effect on an 
irritable stomach and bowels. The sensation of warmth which they exert 
relieves dyspepsia, cramp, spasms, hiccough. The same influence is ex- 
erted throughout the intestinal tract. Secretion, too, is augmented, flatus 
expelled, and the pain or griping due to many vegetable foods prevented. 
Their mixture with food serves to excite the nerves of taste and smell 
as well as the sense of hunger, thereby directly augmenting appetite and 



640 SUGAK, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

desire for and enjoyment of food. Their use is of great value to persons 
of jaded appetite, to invalids and convalescents, and no adjustment of the 
diet in such cases can be regarded as satisfactory which leaves this con- 
sideration out of account. 

It is thought best for the purpose of the present work to omit a de- 
tailed study of the chemistry and composition of the vast number of 
flavoring agents which enter into diet, but only to consider casually 
those which are in common use. 

Tibbies groups condiments into three classes: stimulating condiments, 
aromatic spices, sweet herbs; but for the purpose of the present work it 
is thought wise to classify condiments and spices with reference to the 
source from which they are obtained. 

Sources from Which Condiments are Obtained 

(a) From stems or leaves (d) From roots or root stocks 
(h) From buds or flowers (e) From immature or ripe fruits 
(c) From barks (/) From seeds 

(a) Stems and leaves. — BAY LEAF.— The bay leaf (Laurus nohilis), 
or sweet bay as it is commonly called, is used as a condimental substance 
in food. It is a native of the Mediterranean countries, but grows in 
sheltered gardens throughout the temperate zone. The leaves have an 
agreeable odor and an aromatic bitter taste, and are used for flavoring 
custards, etc. The leaves contain a fixed oil which can be expressed as 
an essential volatile oil or obtained by distillation. The oil of bay is used 
in making bay rum. It is obtained from a different plant, the Myrcia 
acris, 

SAGE. — Sage is an ordinary perennial garden herb which grows wild 
in southern Europe and is cultivated in old-time gardens throughout the 
United States and other temperate climates. The leaves, which are the 
official portion, are grayish-green and very aromatic. From these an aro- 
matic oil can be distilled. It possesses slightly tonic, astringent and aro- 
matic properties. The principal use of the sage leaf is in flavoring meat, 
especially sausage and the "stuffing" of fowls. 

MACE.— Mace is obtained from the arillus and reticulated envelope 
which surrounds the nutmeg. It has a beautiful blood-red color, and 
closely surrounds and encloses the nutmeg or kernel. The mace contains 
a notable quantity of fixed oils and resinous matters. Its volatile oil re- 
sembles that of nutmeg. It contains a considerable amount of carbo- 
hydrate, which behaves like starch, but gives only a red reaction with 



SPIGES AND CONDIMENTS 641 

iodin and is called an amylodexlritu Mace conUins between 20 or 30 per 
cent of non-volatile ether extract and about 3 jier cent of total ash, and 
0.5 per cent of ash iiisolnhle in hvdnK'hInric acid and 10 |)cr cent of 
crude fiber. iMace is a stimulant, carminative and valuable flavoring 
agent, used in the culinary art Ita excessive use is apt to prrxluce nar- 
cotic effects similar to those of camphor. {See Nutmeg, page 64». ) 

COMMON MINT.— Garden mint is U8<»d lar«;ely for sauces and other 
culinary purposes. It has an oil which contains a stearoptene (C,oH,o<>), 
also a liquid (CjoHuO) which is isomeric with carvol. This herb is 
hii>hly prized for its dcli«rhtful aroma when scientifically blended with 
well-seasoned brandy in the famous Southern Mint Julep. 

SPEARMINT.— Spearmint is the dried leaves and tops of a perennial 
herb found in most moist places of the northeni United States, Europe 
and Asia. The plant is used extensively in flavoring mint sauce, which 
is served with mutton and lamb. It somewhat resembles pepf>erniint, 
but can be readily distinguished from it both by its appearance and odor. 
The oil of spearmint is largely distilled in this country, the whole plant 
being used in the process. 

SWEET MARJORAM.— Sweet marjoram is a native plant of North 
Africa. It is a sweet, fragrant and aromatic herb cultivated in gardens 
for culinary purposes. The plant is used for medicinal purposes as well 
as for flavoring. It yields a volatile oil containing 40 per cent terpinene, 
some terpineol, and small quantities of acetic and otlier acids. Sweet 
marjoram extract and marjoram extract are both made from the oil of 
marjoram. 

SWEET BASIL.— Sweet basil is an aromatic herb, native of India and 
Africa, and is cultivated in gardens throughout the temperate zone. It 
is a useful aromatic herb for seasoning soups and various dishes. It pos- 
sesses a peculiar inviting flavor resembling somewhat that of cloves. 

SUMMER SAVORY.— Summer savory is an aromatic herb used for 
flavoring soups, entrees and other meat dishes. It has a very pungent, 
aromatic odor and a warm, rather bitter taste. The leaves are sometimes 
profusely covered with small vesicles containing the oil which gives the 
herb its aromatic properties. 

PEPPERMINT.— Peppermint is found growing in moist places through- 
out the temperate zone. It is cultivated extensively in Michigan, Indiana 
and New York, for the manufacture of the essential oil of peppermint 
It is used for flavoring foods, though not extensively, and is used in bev- 
erages and confectionery. Menthol is obtained from the oil of pepper- 
mint. 



642 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

PARSLEY. — Parsley is a native of Sardinia and other European coun- 
tries. All parts of the plant contain an oil to which its flavor and prop- 
erties are due. The crude oil is most abundant in the seeds, which con- 
tain apiol or apiolin, obtained by boiling the herb with water and cooling. 
Various parts of the plant are used for medicinal purposes. The main 
use of parsley, however, is in sauces and for garnishing meat dishes. 

TARRAGON. — Tarragon is a plant cultivated for its pungent, aromatic 
leaves which are used for flavoring soups and for making ^'tarragon vine- 
gar." 

WINTERGREEN. — Wintergreen is a small evergreen herb which grows 
wild in various sections of the United States. The oil of wintergreen is 
iis©d extensively as a flavoring for beverages and confectionery. The oil 
of wintergreen contains methyl salicylate, largely used as a substitute for 
salicylic acid in medicine. 

THYME. — Thyme is a garden plant, native of southern Europe and 
grown in all countries throughout the temperate zone. There are two 
varieties — garden thyme and the wild thyme. Both contain the same oil, 
which gives the fragrance and aroma to the plant, but the cultivated plant 
contains more than the wild variety. The leaves of this plant are used 
principally in sausage and "stuffing" for fowls. The oil of thyme, which 
is produced from the leaves by distillation, contains from 25 to 42 per 
cent of thymol (CiqKijjO.H), a useful medicinal antiseptic. 

CHERRY LAUREL LEAVES. — Cherry laurel leaves have a taste and 
flavor resembling that of bitter almonds ; they are used to flavor custards, 
blancmange and puddings. 

FENNEL.— Eennel is a native plant, naturalized in England and the 
United States. It is used principally for sauces for rich varieties of fish 
— salmon, mackerel, etc. 

The essence of sweet herbs, a favorite condiment with Southern cooks 
in the days "before the war," is made according to the following for- 
mula: Take of thyme, 4 parts; winter savory, 4 parts; sweet marjoram, 
4 parts; sweet basil, 4 parts; grated lemon peel, 2 parts; celery seeds, 1 
part ; alcohol, 50 parts ; bruise them all, macerate, keep in the alcohol for 
seven days, and filter. This essence is used largely for flavoring soups, 
entrees and other culinary preparations. 

(h) Buds and Flowers. — Buds and flowers of certain herbs furnish a 
variety of aromatic substances, highly prized by cooks and chefs. 

CAPER.— -The caper bush buds are the unexpanded flowers, of a low 
trailing herb that grows abundantly along the shores and on the islands 
of the Mediterranean. The plant begins to bloom in the early sum- 



SIMCES AND CONIJIMKXTS * 643 

iiier, and the fresh buds are jrathered every mi)riilii|5 before they expand, 
and aro ])icklcd in stron^r wldto vino|;ar and Halt. When the Heiiiion 
closes, the buds are assorted accordin|i; to size and color; the younftwt and 
greenest are considered of tlio finest quality. Cai^rn add irreatly to the 
flavor in the preserving of pickles, their peculiar flavor lx?ing due to capric 
acids. 

CLOVES.— Cloves are the dried flower buds of an evergreen tree, native 
of the Molucca Islands, but cultivated all over the East Indies, We«t 
Indies, East Africa and Hra::il and other tropical c»ountrie«. The tree 
grows to tho height of thirty or forty fe<'t and l)egin8 to liear when about 
six years old. The buds are plucked by hand when they are red and 
nearly ready to open; they are dried quickly in the sun or by the heat of 
a wood fire. Cloves contain from 17 to 20 per cent of the volatile oil of 
cloves and about S per cent of olcorcsin. The oil of cloves contain.s aljout 
90 per cent of eugenol (C,oH,oOo), a phenol-like substance. The use of 
cloves in domestic science is well known. They are employed chiefly for 
their flavor, but they also possess stimulant, aromatic, antispasnuKJic and 
antiseptic properties. They are the chief representatives of the "aro- 
matic spices." 

IS AFFRON.— Saffron is the dried stigmas and tops of the stiles of a 
perennial plant, native of Asia Minor, but now cultivate<I in many parts 
of southern Europe. It is chiefly used in the culinary art to impart 
color and flavor to food. 

Barks. — CASSIA.— Cassia is the inner bark of various trees, having an 
odor and flavor somewhat similar to cinnamon. It grows extensively in 
China, Ceylon and other Oriental countries. Some of this class of barks 
are thin, and others are thick ; the thin barks resemble true cinnamon so 
closely that they are often used as an adulterant of the latter. It ccmtains 
a volatile oil similar to the oil of cinnamon. The flower buds put on tho 
market from this tree furnish the cassia buds of commerce which are used 
for flavoring purposes. 

CINNAMON.— True cinnamon is the inner bark of the true cinnamon 
tree, native of Ceylon and found all over India and the islands of the 
Eastern Archipelago, but chiefly in Ceylon, Borneo, Java, Sumatra and 
Brazil. The trees are cultivated and the bark is removed and cut lon- 
gitudinally and laid aside for twenty-four hours, during which time a 
species of fermentation takes place which facilitates the removal of the 
inner epidermis or green part of the bark. The inner bark is then re- 
moved and rolled into long cylinders and dried in the sun. It is then 
ready for shipment. 



644 SUGAE, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

The oil of cinnamon is obtained from flowers, leaves, bark and roots 
of the cinnamon tree. The finest oil is distilled in China, and is used for 
making waters and cordials. An artificial (synthetic) cinnamic aldehyd 
(CeHgCHiCH — CHO), a coal tar product, is sometimes used to replace 
the genuine oil of cinnamon in the manufacture of flavoring materials. 
The cinnamon bark can readily be adulterated with cassia and other 
similar barks. Pure ground cinnamon is more frequently found on the 
market at the present time than formerly. 

Roots or Rootstalks. — TURMERIC— Turmeric is the rhizome of a peren- 
nial plant growing in the eastern countries. The roots are dried and fre- 
quently ground before being offered for sale. Turmeric contains a yellow 
coloring matter, and the powder has a warm aromatic, bitter taste. It is 
used for coloring and flavoring food products. 

GARLIC. — Garlic is a cultivated plant closely related to the onion fam- 
ily. The tops, and especially the bulbs, have a peculiar taste and smell 
which are quickly communicated to the breath and perspiration of the con- 
sumer. This is due to an essential oil usually stated to consist chiefly of 
allyl sulphid (C3H5S), which occurs in many cruciferous plants. The 
bulbs are used as a condiment in the preparation of entrees, sauces, etc. 
Garlic provokes the appetite, as well as the muscular and glandular activi- 
ties of the stomach. "It also possesses stimulant properties, quickens the 
circulation, excites the nervous system, the skin and kidneys." 

GINGER. — Ginger is the creeping rhizome of a plant which is said to 
be a native of Hindoostan, but is now cultivated in the East and West 
Indies, and in . fact, in all southern tropical countries. The roots are 
sufficiently matured when a year old. They are then dug up, trimmed, 
washed, boiled or scalded with boiling water to prevent germination, and 
rapidly dried. So prepared they constitute unbleached or black ginger. 
In this condition they have a grayish wrinkled epidermis with a brown 
underlayer and a yellowish interior. The epidermis contains a large 
amount of oleoresin ; therefore the black ginger contains more aromatic 
properties than white or bleached ginger. The latter is prepared from 
the best selected roots, deprived of their epidermis, decorticated, and 
carefully dried in the sun — the latter process giving them a beautiful 
white color. Decorticated ginger roots are smoother and whiter, but less 
pungent than the black ginger. Preserved ginger is made from the young 
succulent rhizomes which are washed and boiled in sirup. Some of the 
roots are afterwards crystallized or candied by drying them in the same 
way as candied fruits. 



SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 645 

Ginger contains an oleoresin, a volatile oil and nearly 60 per cent of a 
peculiar starch. The flavor and jiungcncy are due tu tbe volatile oil and 
tho ulcoresin. Ginger possesses valuable carniinntive propcrtie«. It i« of 
considerable value in enfeebled states of the alimentary canal, such as 
atonic dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. The stimulant aromatic 
properties of ginger ale are duo to the volatile oil and oleonesiu coutaiued 
in the ginger root. 

HORSERADISH.— Horseradish is the root of a plant which is u native 
of western Europe and is extensively grown on lx)th sides of the Atlantic. 
It is so well known as to require little dcs<rription. It has a warm taste 
and pungent odor, which promotes apiH?tite and secretion of saliva, in- 
creases gastric secretion and motility, thereby stimulating the alimentary 
functions. At the same time it is a carminative and antiseptic throughout 
the alimentary canal. The virtue of the root is contained in a volatile 
oil which is present, but which is dissipated by drying. The oil is prin- 
cipally a sulphocyanite of butyl (C4H9CNS). The root may be grated 
well, and preserved in vinegar for use. Horseradish is valuable as an 
addition to a diet, containing much salt meat, to prevent scurvy. It is a 
valuable aid in the digestion of meat and various acid dishes, and is 
extensively used with raw oysters. It is one of the most valuable anti- 
scorbutic condiments; of value in chronic rlieuuiatism, sciatica, various 
dropsical conditions, and as a general stimulant and excitant in systemic 
and nervous debility. 

SASSAFRAS.— Sassafras is obtained from the inner part of the roots 
of the sassafras tree which grows along the Atlantic coast and the interior 
of the United States. The root and bark contain a volatile oil used in 
flavoring beverages and confectionery. 

Immature and Ripe Fruits. — ALLSPICE.— Allspice is the dried, half- 
ripened fruit of a handsome evergreen tree, attaining a height of thirty 
feet. It is a native of the Caribbean Islands. It is grown in the West 
Indies, Mexico and the northern part of South America. It bears fra- 
grant aromatic white flowers. The berries grow rapidly and become moist 
when ripe and later dry, black and tasteless. They are, however, picked 
when green and fully growTi, in which condition they have the maximimi 
of flavor. They are dried in the sun, which turns them a reddish brown. 
They have a fragrant odor resembling a combination of cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg; hence the name allspice. Their taste is warm, orom,itic and 
pungent. They are used in the preparation of food as an aromatic spice. 
being possessed of aromatic, stimulant and carminative properties which 
they communicate to various cordials, etc. They are used for flavorings 



646 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

puddings and pies. Besides a volatile oil, they contain a green fixed oil 
which has a burning aromatic taste somewhat like that of pimiento. 

CAPSICUM— CAYENNE PEPPER.— They are the fruit or pods of several 
species of capsicum known under various names as pod pepper and red 
pepper. They vary in size from a small pod to a large pod or berry. 
Cayenne peppers are hot and the '^paprikas'' are mild. Capsicum and 
the pepper derived from it is a diffusible stimulant ; it promotes the secre- 
tion of gastric and pancreatic juices. As a condiment a small amount is 
of value in cases of atonic dyspepsia attended with flatulence, etc. It is 
of value to alcoholic subjects, and is largely used by the residents of hot 
climates to arouse appetite and relieve dyspeptic symptoms generally. 

JUNIPER BERRIES.— Juniper berries are the fruit of an evergreen tree 
very widely distributed over the northern hemisphere; it grows as far 
north as the Arctic circle. The trees differ greatly in size and shape in 
different latitudes. The fruit matures during the second season, and is 
used medicinally and for making aromatic oil. The crushed berry or the 
oil is used in flavoring gin (see Volume I, Chapter XVI). Juniper 
berries are about the size of a pea and contain a sweet pulp; when dry 
they are black and have a sweet-bitterish balsamic flavor. They are 
stomachic, increase the appetite, and stimulate digestion ; they also stimu- 
late the skin and kidneys to increased action and give to the urine an 
odor of violets. 

PEPPER.— Pepper is the dried unripe fruit of a perennial plant which 
is propagated by cuttings, and as it grows must be supported by props or 
other trees. The tree begins to bear three or four years after it is planted 
and produces two crops a year. Black and white pepper are the fruit of 
the same tree, but treated in different ways. The pepper plant grows 
wild in the forests of Malabar and is cultivated throughout India, Siam, 
Indo-China, Java, Sumatra, the Philippine Islands and the West Indies. 
The largest quantity of pepper is produced in the region of Singapore. 

The berries are gathered before they are ripe, are dried in the sun, 
and beaten on mats to detach them from the stalks. This constitutes the 
hlach pepper of commerce. In the preparation of luJiite pepper the ber- 
ries are allowed to become fully ripe before they are gathered, and then 
are permitted to stand until a certain amount of fermentation takes place. 
This treatment allows some of the pungency to escape, retaining a finer 
flavor and aroma than black pepper. The berries are carefully selected, 
only the finest being used for this purpose. After fermentation takes 
place, they are rubbed together by hand to remove the pulp; they are 
afterwards dried and blanched in the sun. 



SPICES AND (UMilMKM'S 047 

One of the most important ingredients in pepper is un alkuloid, piperin 
(C^lIiyNO.,). Pepper ulsu contains an oleoresin and u volatile oil which 
contribute Havor and pungency to the product. . (i round pepper in cpiito 
generally used as a table condiment on various dishes. 

VANILLA HKAN.— Vanilla l)ean is the dried and cured bean of an 
orchid with thick fleshy leaves, indigenous to Mexicii, which gniws uiMin 
cocoa and other trees, but is also cultivated in the West Iu<lies, Central 
and South America. The Ixjst cured Ixjans are from 20 to 25 centinieteni 
long, drawn out at the ends and curved at the base. They have a <'har- 
acteristic brown color, waxy feel, and are covered with Hue, almost im- 
perceptible crystals of vanillin which has the e<mi|>osition of CgH^C,, 
varying from l.OO to 2. CO per cent. They jM)ssess a delicious flavor due 
to the active principle of the al)ove. It is readily extracted by alcohol 
and other solvents. The vanilla extract is made in this way and is much 
used in flavoring ice cream, cakes and for other culinary purposes. 

Seeds. — anise.— Anise is interesting as being one of the earliest aro- 
matics mentioned in literature. It is obtained from an annual plant, a 
native of Egypt, and is cultivated in Malta, Italy, Spain, Russia and 
South America. Anise has aromatic and carminative properties. The 
seeds have a fragrant odor and a sweet warm aromatic taste due to the 
volatile oil which forms 2.5 per cent of the seeds. The oil contains anethol 
(CqHioO), a stearoptene. They are much used in cookery, in making 
spices and cordials and in medicine. The seeds are used for flavoring 
many dishes, but the whole plant is aromatic and with it the liqueur 
anisette de Bordeaux is flavored. 

CARDAMON.— Cardamon is a native of ^lalabar and is grown in the 
East Indies, Ceylon and Java. The cultivated plants bear fruit in the 
fourth year and continue to do so for many years. The fruit is gathered 
in ISTovember and dried over a gentle fire, and afterwards the seeds are 
separated from the calyx by nibbing. The seeds are dark brown, of aro- 
matic odor, warmth and pungency. These properties depend upon a 
volatile oil w^hich can be obtained by distillation. Cardamon seeds are 
used in cakes, curries, sauces, cordials and confectionery. 

CARAWAY SEED.— Caraway seed is obtained from a plant, a native 
of Europe, and cultivated extensively in Holland and other countries. 
The seeds have an agreeable tqste. They are aromatic and carminative: 
are much used as a flavoring agent to give taste and aromatic odor to vari- 
ous dietetic articles. The seed contains an essential oil which has a 
percentage of carvol (C,oH,40). 



648 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

CELERY SEED.— (>S'ee Celery, Volume I, Chapter XIII). The seeds 
of this plant are often used for flavoring purposes and have some medicinal 
value, exerting a carminative action. 

CORIANDER SEEDS.— Coriander seeds are obtained from the coriander 
plant which grows in Europe. Tliey contain a volatile oil which has a 
remarkable odor. The seed possesses properties somewhat similar to anise 
seed, caraway and fennel. The whole of the fresh plant, when crushed, 
emits a fetid odor, but the dried fruit is very fragrant, and is used in 
making bread, cakes, confectionery, and for flavoring liqueurs. 

THE CUMIN SEED. — The cumin seed possesses similar properties to 
coriander and caraway, and is much cultivated in Malta and Sicily. It 
is used largely as a flavoring. In Germany these seeds are frequently 
mixed in bread and cake, and in Holland they are used to flavor cheese. 

THE TONKA BEAN.— The tonka bean is obtained from an almond- 
shaped pod containing a single bean which is shaped like a kidney bean 
of dark brown color. The active principle of the tonka bean is couma- 
rin (Cc)H.^^02). It possesses a fragrant odor and a bitter taste. The 
tonka extract is often used to partly replace vanilla extract. 

THE DILL SEED.— The dill seed is a native of Spain, Portugal and 
southern France and is cultivated in the gardens in Europe and America. 
In the United States the seeds are used for flavoring, and especially in 
the preparation of ^'dill pickle.'' The flavor is not as agreeable as fennel. 

THE FENNEL SEED.— The fennel seed is obtained from the fennel 
plant, a native of Europe and common in all temperate climates. The 
seed yields four or five per cent of volatile oil which has a sweet aromatic 
taste. Fennel seeds are chiefly used to flavor cakes and liqueurs. 

GRAINS OF PARADISE.— These are used as a condiment. They pos- 
sess a pungency similar to that of black pepper, and are used to give a 
fiery taste to various liquors, such as beer, wine and gin. 

MUSTARD.— Mustard is derived from the seeds of Sinapis arvensis, of 
which there are two varieties, the black and white. Mustard originally 
grew wild, in waste places, and was known as charlock. At the present 
time the product on the market is composed of a mixture of the seeds of 
the black and white cultivated varieties, but charlock seeds are still col- 
lected and are used for purposes of adulteration. The plant is an annual, 
bearing yellow flowers; the seeds may be separated from the pods when 
ripe by threshing. Mustard contains a fixed oil which is present to the 
amount of from 20 to 30 per cent. This oil presents in many respects 
the same general character as rape-seed oil (Volume I, Chapter XIV). 



fc;riCE8 AM) CONDIMENTS W9 



I 1- a 



This may be expressed from the powdered Heeds after wanning. I 
bland oil with very little taste and fnriiiH an excellent salad drcsaiug. 
^lucli of the lixrd oil is friMjucntly rcinovcd before the seoda are |»r<»pariHl 
as ''ground niustanl." 

The active principle of black mustard is sinujrin (KC,oHiiiKNS,0,o), 
pnd that of white mustard is sinalhin {^\o^^h^4^'2^\h)' The«c are the 
substances which break up to yield, among other pro<lurt«, the volatile oil. 
The strongest ground mustard is obtained by mixing the two varieties of 
seeds. 

The use of mustard in medicine, as a condiment, and to Htiiimbito the 
appetite are too well known to need repetition here. 

NUTMEG.— Nutmeg is the dried seed of the Myrislica fragrans, a tree 
native of the Malay Archipelago, which somewhat resembles the orange 
tree in appearance. The tree attains a height of about thirty feet ind haa 
a large branching head resembling a pear tree in foliage and general 
appearance. The flowers are insignificant, the males and females being 
on separate seeds. The plantation of nutmeg trees is cultivated from the 
seeds, and they begin to produce flowers in the eighth or ninth year. But 
as above stated, the sexes are distinct, and the male trees are cut when 
they are two years old, and the remaining are grafted with cuttings from 
selected female trees. Only one or two male trees are left in the grove to 
insure fecundation. 

The fruit is round or oval, and resembles a small peach, green at first, 
yellow when ripened. The fruit is gathered by hand, the pulpy husk 
stripped off, and the mace of commerce is detached. The nuts are first 
sun dried, and then smoked until the kernels are shrivelled and loose, 
and the shells are sufficiently brittle to be easily broken. The kernels, 
nutmegs of commerce, on being removed from the shells, are dipped in 
lime water two or three times to prevent the depredations of insects, and 
again dried and divided into grades. The small round ones are con- 
sidered of finer quality than the large oval nuts. 

ISTutmeg contains a volatile oil which consists of a terpene, mNTisticin 
(C14H2SO2). It also contains a fat called nutmeg butter, which is ob- 
tained "by applying pressure to the kernels between hot plates; it is of 
yellowish-brown color and has an agreeable odor. The volatile oil is ex- 
tracted bv distilling powdered nutmegs with water. It is a pale straw- 
colored liquid, soluble in ether and alcohol, having the pungent taste and 

odor of nutmegs. 1 j j ^ 

ISTutmeg is aromatic, stimulant and stomachic, much used and of great 
value as a flavoring for various foods and drinks. A very small quantity 



650 SUGAK, SPICES AND . CONDIMENTS 

is usually sufficient to flavor any food required by one person, hi large 
doses nutmeg is narcotic, poisoning having occurred from the mastication 
of nutmegs. This is due to the essential oil. 

SALT {Sodium Chloride NaCl) is a condiment which has been used 
from time immemorial. It occurs in immense underground deposits ir 
various parts of the earth, forming '^rock salt." This is said to be formed 
by the evaporation of prehistoric seas. These salt rock beds are found 
in many parts of the world. In the United States these beds occur espe- 
cially in New York, Michigan, Kansas and Louisiana. They are some- 
times near the surface, but often at a depth of one thousand feet or more. 
The salt is mined by sinking a shaft and working as in a coal mine. The 
rock salt, if sufficiently pure, is sold as it comes from the mine, or ground 
and screened. The product is usually 98 to 99 per cent pure. In many 
places a saturated brine, containing about 25 per cent of sodium chlorid, 
is formed on the top of the salt beds, as a result of the percolation of 
water through the earth's strata. These lakes of brine water are often 
referred to as brine springs. Chlorid of sodium also exists in large pro- 
portion in sea water. The method of obtaining salt from these waters is 
by evaporation. Each gallon of sea water will produce about one-fourth 
of a pound of salt, and salt is still produced by the solar evaporation of 
sea or salt water in many countries. Salt made from ocean water Is quite 
impure unless purified by washing and recrystallization. 

The evaporation of brine from salt springs is one of the commonest 
and most satisfactory methods. This evaporation is carried on by solar 
heat in open pans or heated directly over a fire or heated by steam, or 
more recently in open pans connected with an exhaust or vacuum pan. 
The salt is raked from the pans, allowed to drain, and sometimes dried 
artificially before it is put on the market. 

The average composition of common salt is as follows: 

Sodium chlorid 98.25 

Insoluble residue 0.08 

Calcium sulphate 1.31 

Magnesium chlorid 0.10 

Sodium sulphate 0.26 

100.00 

Sodium chlorid, or common table salt, though a true inorganic food, 
and required in amounts of about 10 grams a day, is often used in larger 
quantities, 20 grams a day, as a relish. {See Volume I, Chapter XL) 



PICKLES AND SALADS 651 

It U one of the most imi)ortant iiiid ahuiidaiit of the naline coimtituenU 
of the aiiiiiial organism, existing normally in the hhxMl, where it keeps the 
fibrin and allniniin in solution. In intlaniniation, IxMng thnH nciHled, it 
accnnmlatos at tlio Hcat of the niorhid action, diMap|H*aring temporarHv 
from the urine; its reappearance therein is eonsidercd one of the «ureHt 
si<27is of the patient's iinproveiiicnt, 'Mn very <!iliite Holntion it enuhlen 
water to dissolve InHh albumins a.id globulins, and renders water non- 
irritant to the animal tissues and harndess to the re<i hltM>d corpumdc's." 
For these purposes the solution employed is one of 0.5 per cent, known 
in experimental physiology as the normul mil Holuiitni. In snl/Mtanc«*, 
however, or in concentrated solution, salt is very irritant to cut surfaees, 
mucous membrane, muscle and nerve tissues. Taken into tlie stomach in 
quantity, it irritates that organ and induces vomiting. When alxtorbed 
in excess of the normal retiuirements of the Ixxly it ciinses tlie peculiar 
nervous irritation expressed by the sense of thirst, and is relieved only 
by the ingestion of water in sufficient quantity to enable the excess to be 
dissolved and excreted by the kidneys. It is rapidly absorlnft and rapidly 
excreted; and when consumed in excess it increases tissue change and 
consequently the excretion of urea and potassium salts. On the other hand, 
the excessive ingestion of potassium salts (as in the cases of herbivorous 
animals and vegetarian cranks) increases the excretion of sodium chlorid 
by a double decomposition between these salts in the bhxxl, forming potas- 
sium chlorid and sodium phosphate, which being foreign to the blood are 
constantly excreted. In this way, by a continuous vegetable diet, the 
normal amount of sodium chlorid in the organism may be greatly re- 
duced, and the animal will feel the want of it and will travel hundreds 
of miles to visit a salt lick. Besides l)eing emetic when given internally, 
sodium chlorid also acts as a hemostatic, decreases the secretion of mucus, 
is a vermifuge against threadworms, promotes the abst)rption of pleuritic 
serous exudations and of dropsies, and has considerable power as an anti- 
periodic and an antiseptic. 

PICKLES AND SALADS 

Pickles. — Pickles are made from fruits and vegetables by a pnxt»s9 
of pickling — i.e.y immersion in a solution of salt and vinegar. Cucumbers, 
artichokes, beets, carrots, gerkins, figs, peaches, cauliflower, onions, pears, 
string beans, walnuts, capers and nasturtium seeds are all thus pickleil. 

The common household method nf pickling is to soak the vegetable 
for some days in brine; afterward they are subjected to scalding with boil- 

43 



652 SUGAE, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

ing water at stated intervals, being put back in the brine between times 
and finally put up in suitable containers filled with vinegar, to which 
spices and sugar have been added. Pickles like all vegetables are anti- 
scorbutic, but many of them are difficult to digest, and without good mas- 
tication and the stimulation of the stomach by the spices they may prove 
quite indigestible. 

Pickles are often adulterated by the use of the salts of copper to give 
the pickle a fresh green color. Alum is also a common adulterant, added 
to the pickled vegetables to make them firm and crisp. 

Cold Slaw. — The red cabbage is the favorite cabbage for pickling, but 
the white cabbage should not be overlooked at a time when salads are 
scarce. White cabbage hearts chopped fine and mingled with vinegar, 
salt and oil will supply a salad, ^'cold slaw,'' throughout the winter when 
other materials are scarce. 

Sauerkraut. — Sauerkraut is a preparation of cabbage leaves. These 
are chopped or shredded very fine and packed in casks with salt and 
weighted down ; water is then added until the whole is submerged in the 
briny solution. After standing for some time the mass undergoes fer- 
mentation — during which process the various organic acids of the vege- 
table impart a flavor w^hich is much prized. This pickled cabbage is a 
favorite German dish. It is now extensively consumed in the United 
States. 

Sktshi. — One of the Russian national dishes, called sMshi, is made 
by packing chopped cabbage into barrels with vinegar and salt, and allow- 
ing the cabbage to ferment. The product is made into a broth with meat 
and forms an important part of the daily food of the common people. 

Salads. — Salads are composed of vegetables, usually raw, many kinds 
being mingled together and dressed with condiments, such as vinegar, 
salad oil and spices. Salads are valuable as a food, mainly for the 
freshness of the vegetables of which they are composed, for their vita- 
mines and valuable mineral salts, and the iron in connection with the 
chlorophyll which gives vegetables their green color. Salads are cooling, 
appetizing and antiscorbutic. Sometimes salads cause indigestion, and 
because of the indigestible cellulose in them many people require the 
addition of vinegar to stimulate the process of digestion. The salads 
most commonly served consist of lettuce and one or more of the following : 
onion, cucumber, endive, cress, radish, tomato, beetroot. Other salad 
plants are the cardoon, which resembles the artichoke, the leaf stalks of 
which are blanched like celery, and which is eaten as a vegetable in soup 
or salad. Some of the following plants or herbs — borage, burnet, coper, 



PICKLES AND SALADS 668 

chevril, inint^ nusturtiiim, parsley, pepper, griiHM, green peppers and sor- 
rel — have vegetable aeids or essential oils which give tliem a characteristic 

Havor for making tasty salads. 

RKFKUENCE8 

In the preparation of this section, the author has «I»-M\vt» ..n. fri'«'lv 
consulted and derived much help from the following: 

1. TiBBLEs, William. Origin, Comjwsition ami Manufacture of 

Foods. 

2. Brown and Blouin. The Chemistry of Sugar Cane and Its PhmJ- 

ucts in Louisiana, Agric. Exj^r. Sta., 1907, BulL 91. 

3. Browne. Chemistry of Raw Sugar Production, School of Mines 

Quarterly, 1911, vol. xxxii, pp. 217-234. 

4. Keppesciiaar. Kequirements of the Beet Sugar Factory as Com- 

pared with the Cane SugUr Estahlishment, Int. Sugar J., 1911, 
vol. xiii, pp. 527-503. 

5. Clausen. Beet Sugar Manufacture, U. S. Dcpt. of Agric, Bull. 

124. 

6. Rogers and Ai bert. Industrial Chemistry, p. 663. 

7. U. S. Dep. of Agric, Farmers' Bull. No. 477. 

8. U. S. Dep. of Agric, Chem. Bull. 134. 

9. Tibbles, William. Origin, Composition and Manufacture of 

Foods. 

10. Browne. Hand Book of Sugar Analysis. 

11. U. S. Dep. of Ag., Chem. Bull. No. 70. 

12. Wiley, H. W. Foods and Their Adulteration. 

13. . Ihid. 

14. Tibbles. Origin, Composition and Manufacture of Foods. 

15. Wiley. Foods and Their Adulteration, p. 480. 

16. Richards. Food IMaterials and Their Adulterations, p. 92. 

17. Thompson, W. Oilman. Practical Dietetics. 

18. . Ihid. 

19. Browne. (Findings based on an estimate of 100 samples.) V. S. 

Dept. of Agric, Bull. 110. 

20. Kustenmocher. Chemistry of the Formation of Honey, Ztsch. f. 

Biochem., 1911, vol. xxx, pp. 237-254. 

21. Minnesota State Report, 1903-1904. 

22. Robertson, Atchison. Diirostion of Sugars in Some Diseased 

Conditions of the Body, Edinb. Med. J. 



654 SUGAR, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS 

23. EoBERTsoN. Rate of Fermentation of Sugars, Edinb. Med. J. 

24. Pitch. Scientific Cookery, Food Preparation and Preservation, 

vol. ii, ch. i. 

25. TiBBLEs, William. Origin, Composition and Manufacture oi 

Foods. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Abel. Sugar as Food, IT. S. Dept. of Agric, Farmers' Bull. 535. 

Bailey. Source, Chemistry and Use of Food Products. 

Browne. By-products of Sugar Manufacture and Their Utilization, 

School of Mines Quart., July, 1913. 
. The Chemistry of Raw Sugar Production, School of Mines 

Quart, vol. xxxii, 1911, pp. 217-234. 
. Chemical Analysis and Composition of American Honeys, 

U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bur. of Chem., 1908, Bull. 110. 
. Manufacture of Raw Sugar in the Philippine and Hawaiian 

Islands, Ibid., 1913. 

. The Development of the Sugar Industry, Ibid._, April, 1914. 

. Handbook of Sugar Analysis. 

Browne and Blouin. The Chemistry of the Sugar Cane and Its Prod- 
ucts in Louisiana, Agric. Exper. Sta., 1907, Bull. 91. 
Bryan. Maple Sap Syrup, U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bur. of Chem., 1910, 

Bull. 134. 
. Composition of Imported Honeys, U. S. Dept. of Agric, 

Bur. of Chem., 1912, Bull. 154. 
Bryant. Composition of Commercial Glucose, Original Comnmnica- 

tions, 8th Internat. Cong. Applied Chem., 1912, vol. xiii, pp. 

47-56. 
Clausen. Beet Sugar Manufacture (translated by Hall and Rolfe). 
CowLES. Suggested Standards for Maple Sugar and Syrup, J. Industr. 

& Engin. Chem., 1909, vol. i, pp. 773-775. 
Deerr. Cane Sugar Manufacture. 
. Cane Sugar Manufacture in the Hawaiian Islands. Orig. 

Communications, 8th Internat. Cong. Applied Chem., 1912, 

vol. viii, pp. 7-12. 

. Sugar and the Sugar Cane. 

Geerlings. The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present. 
Horne. The Sugar Industry and Its Relation to the United States, eT. 

Industr. & Engin. Chem., 1909, vol. i, pp. 3-4. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY W5 

Hutchison. Food Dietetics, Farmers' Bull. 93, U. S. i>ept of Agric, 

Farmers' Bull. 535, U. S. Dept. jf Agric, U. 8. Senate Docu- 
ment, 81)0. 
KoppEsciiAAH. Keciuiremeiits of the Beet Sugar Factory aa Compared 

with the Cane Sugar Establishment, Intcrnat. Sugar J., lUll, 

vol. xiii, pp. 527, 55)3. 
IviciiARDs. Food iMaterials and Their Adulteration, Bull. 477, U. 8. 

Dept. of Agric, 90. 
RoLFE. Notes on Commercial Dextrins, Ihtd., vol. xiii, pp. 237-245, 

1012. 
. Shredded Sugar Cane, J. Industr. & Engin. Chem., 1910, 

vol. ii, p. 558. 
Snell and Lockiiead. Composition of ^faple Sugar "Sand," J. 

Indnstr. & Engin. Chem., 11)14, vol. vi, pp. 301-302. 
. History, Manufacture and Analysis of Maple Products, J. 

Franklin Institute, 1908, vol. clxvi, pp. 249-280, 321-352, 433- 

445. 
Walker. The Sugar Industry in the Philippine Islands. 
Wiley. Foods and Their Adulteration. 
Zerban. Investigations on the Use of Sulphur and Its Combinations in 

the Sugar House, L. Agric. Exper. Sta., 1908, Bull. 103. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF KDIIU.K FOOOS^SOME 
CONSEQUENT DISEASES 

IN COLLABORATION WITH 

A. L. Benedict, A.M., M.D., F.A.C.P. 

Medicinal and Toxic Substances of Edible Foods. 

Diseases Caused by Dietetic Errors and V^arious Food Poiaona: ClAMi- 
fication of Dietetic Errors Causing Disease. 

In a work devoted to the scientific application of the fundamental 
doctrine of trophotherapy to the general principles of nutrition, there 
must obviously occur, here and there, an overlapping of phannacolop;\' 
and toxicology on the one hand and of dietetics on the other — especially 
with regard to foods derived from the vegetable kingdom. 

Tannic acid and certain volatile and essential oils and pigments of 
more or less positive medicinal properties are found at least in some parts 
of all plants used as food or food adjuncts. 

MEDICINAL AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

The principal vegetable foodstuffs in which toxic or medicinal sub- 
stances are found are as follows: 

Abies Nigra, or black spruce, possesses powerful antiscorbutic prop- 
erties. The American Indians are said to have taught Jaa]ue8 Cartier the 
use of this plant, which, according to Cartier, was at that time far 
superior to any antiscorbutic then known to European physicians. 

Aesculus hippocaManum, or horse chestnut, is a possible source of 
starch, when freed from the bitter medicinal principle. 

Acorns contain larger quantities of starch, which is available for 
breadmaking after the acorns have been buried underground for a certain 
period to extract the tannin. 

657 



658 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

Asparagus contains an active principle, asparagin (04118^2^^3)? 
which is a stimulant diuretic and to some extent an arterial and nerve 
sedative. While contained mainly in the root, it is present to some extent 
in the stalk. The latter has been recommended as an oxytoxic and em- 
menagogue, as a nerve sedative and a diuretic in dropsy of various forms 
and as an aphrodisiac. Asparagin is an active principle, occurring in 
large rhombic crystals and found in many other plants, as in the shoots 
of asparagus, vetches, potatoes, licorice, the sweet almond, the root of the 
locust, etc. It is considered a derivative of succinic acid, and has diuretic 
properties, besides being a sedative to the circulation. It may be used 
in ascites, especially in children, in the anasarca of Bright's disease and 
in gout. It is eliminated in the urine as methyl mercaptan, which has 
a peculiar disgusting odor. It is excreted very rapidly, being noticeable 
from one to six hours after ingestion. There is no better test of gastric 
motility, absorption and renal elimination than the time of appearance 
and disappearance of the characteristic odor of asparagin. 

Bananas, when ripened and especially when cooked, develop a strong 
odor of amyl nitrite, and occasionally produce mild symptoms of vascular 
dilatation. 

Barberries contain a bitter yellowish alkaloid substance, herherin, 
which is also found in hydrastis and many other plants. Bitter almond, 
peach pits, cherry pits, etc., yield hydrocyanic acid from the inner action 
of the emulsin amygdalin. The latter is not present in sweet almonds. 
The therapeutic action of this acid is too well known to medical men to 
be repeated here. 

Chamomile, peppermint, catnip, sage, savory, saffron, honeset, and 
other herbs of this character are often used for making teas. They do 
not exert any very powerful medicinal action nor have they any nutritive 
value. They do, however, exert a slight medicinal action in that they 
are sudorific and more or less sedative to the nervous system. 

Coca crythroxylum is the plant from which the alkaloid cocain is 
derived. It is entirely distinct from caffein. The general use of the 
plant is as a nerve sedative and stimulant. It is incorporated with a 
popular drink which is now used as a beverage. 

Cratcegus is a species of thorn apple occasionally eaten as a fruit. 
Aside from the astringent and volatile principles contained in the apple, 
exaggerated claims have been made by certain practitioners for an extract 
or tincture made from this apple, which is alleged to be valuable as a 
heart tonic. 

Carrots, parsnips, celery, anise, caraway, dill, coriander and parsley. 



AlEDlCliNAL AM) iUXK: SlUSTANCKS OF FOODS tt59 

like all other nml)ollifcnv, contain volatile oils which are poisonoiiM in 
sutHcient doses. When the foliap* of <'arr«»t.H iH wet, it pvi»» off a |Kii- 
sonous substance, perhaps an essential oil, which exertn an irritating action 
upon the skin similar to eczema or to the irritation produced from the 
poison ivy. Parsnips are considered i)oisonon8 if UHcd the iiocond ;^ear. 
Tlie bleaching of celery by burying in soil, it is claimed, free* the Htulka 
and leaves of their volatile oil. 

Cucumbers, squashes and jmmphins belong to a family pervaded with 
a bitter, cathartic principle which nuiy cn-casion gastric distrcas and diar- 
rhea, when an unusual (luantity of this principh? is present. This occnra 
especially if the fruit is over-riiwned or a faint fermentative pniccHs has 
begun. 

Coffee, tea and cocoa were discussed in thr piiii..ti> liiaphi- on 
beverages and stimulants and are more or less commonly useil as Uhh\ 
adjuvants. They contain definite physiological principles, purins, di- 
and tri-niethyl xanthin, including tannic acid, which is injurious to health. 

Bed cabbage contains litmus, so also do many of the pigmcnta of 
fruits, i.e., such vegetables as the beet, the stem of the red apple, etc. 
While of no known therapeutic or toxic importance, these color reactions 
may interfere with the examination of stomach contents, and may lead to 
a false diagnosis of blood, bile and other colored abnormal ingredienta 
of the feces. 

Com, as we learned in Volume I, Chapter XI 11, is indigenous to 
America. Of late years it has been accused of l)eing the cause of i>ellagra, 
probably unjustly, unless as a factor in improperly balanced diet (See 
Eye.) 

Elderberries, obtained from the elder bush, Sambucus nigra, are often 
used in the same way as huckleberries. They have an active principle, 
but in very small quantities. These berries are used to adulterate huckle- 
berries and in the making of elderberry wine. 

Grapes, while a delightful fruit, are rich in tartaric acid. Tlie skins 
contain quantities of tannin. 

Horseradish, watercress, mustard, turnip, radish, all contain aromatic 
sulphur compounds which in large quantities are more or less irritating 
to the alimentary canal. 

Hops, in addition to a small quantity of asparagin, contain also a 
liquid alkaloid, lupulin and lupulinic acid (C^oHg^^io), both of which 
were mentioned on page 561, when describing the process of brewing. 
Hops are mildly hypnotic and sedative, and are sometimes used as an 
anaphrodisiac. 



660 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

A candy in the shops, sold under the name of Iceland moss, is usually 
flavored with anise. Besides its use as a nutrient, Iceland moss is of 
value as a demulcent. It is also considered hemostatic and expectorant. 

Lettuce contains a small amount of hyoscyamin ( 01^11231^04) and 
other active principles. These principles have been referred to by some 
writers as a mild form of opium. 

Licorice is obtained from the root of the glycyrrhizay a native of 
Europe and largely cultivated in many other parts. It is slightly demul- 
cent and mildly laxative. Licorice has an agreeable taste and increases 
the flow of saliva when slowly chewed or sucked. It contains a small 
amount of sugar, also asparagin and is used as an expectorant. It is much 
employed in acute bronchitis. 

Limes, lemons, oranges, grapefruit, etc., contain antiseptic oils in the 
skins, while the fruit contains considerable quantities of citric and malic 
acids. 

Manna is a saccharine substance containing various sugars. It is 
derived from a species of ash tree, oalc, larch, flowering ash and the 
Indian Alhagi plant. It is a legume and possesses laxative as well as 
nutritive qualities. Manna contains mannotebrose (C24II42O21), each 
molecule of which is said to contain two molecules of galactose, one mole^ 
cule of dextrose and one of levulose. 

Mushrooms are described in Volume I, Chapter XIII, page 449, and 
their danger pointed out. Some varieties of this form of fungi contain 
several active poisonous substances, of which muscarin (C5lIi3E^02+Il20) 
is the chief. Amanitin is found in one variety, while phallin is found 
in others. Cooks have various tests for detecting these poisons. For 
instance, if a silver spoon or fork is used to turn the fungi while cooking, 
the metal will be unaffected by edible fungi ; but the acrid juice of poi- 
sonous mushrooms will corrode or blacken the silver. 'None of these tests 
taken singly is reliable. 

Onions and garlic contain ally! sulphid, which is expectorant, anti- 
septic and somewhat irritating. This active principle may produce 
intense gastro-enteric irritation if taken in large quantities or in persons 
having a peculiar idiosyncrasy. Regularly taken in moderate quantities, 
these vegetables seem to be fairly efficient prophylactics in tuberculosis. 

Oats belong to the cereal grasses, which constitute the principal fodder 
of stock animals, while the seeds are a most important food for man. 
Wood states that the whole family contains but one poisonous or even 
suspicious genus, lolium. Oats are an aphrodisiac to horses, due to the 
active principle, avenin, which they contain. This active principle is 



MEDIC k\ A I AM) l()\i( hLliblA.NCKS OF FOODS 661 

slightly toxic to man, if the use ia long ctjiitiimed. Uuckwhealy while 
not a true cereal, contains an active principle which is liahle to produce 
indigestion and skin eruptions. 

Pomegranatey as a fruit, was descrihed on page 495. The rind con- 
tains the same liquid alkaloid, jKdletierin (('gliiaXO), an the hark of 
the root and therefore has puwerful anthelmintic prt)|MTtii»«. 

Pumphin seeds are ohtained from the pumpkin fruit which ia de- 
scribed on i)age 514, and are useful as an anthelmintic in the treatment 
of tapeworm. They may also be used as a food. 

Potatoes, tomatoes and egg plant all contain mydriatic :iIk;iI..idH» but 
not to any appreciable degree in their edible |)ortions. Oi-caHionally, 
however, the green parts, even raw potato peelings, may produce mild 
poisoning. Potato tubers, if young or diseased, are liable to contiin an 
alkaloid solanidin (C20H41NO2), a glucoside-like combination with sugar, 
though this particular alkaloid is usually in negligible quantity. Severe, 
though not fatal, wholesale poisoning from mydriatic alkaloids has been 
recorded. 

May apple belongs to the same genus as the officinal Podophyllum. 
This apple is occasionally eaten and if liberally ingested, more particu- 
larly if eaten green, may produce violent catharsis. 

Persimmons, as fruit, have been described on page 483. They are 
palatable and wholesome after frost, but prior to being "frostbitten" they 
are disgustingly bitter, astringent, and exert a cathartic action. 

Pennyroyal, lavender, sage, hoarhound, thyme, spearmint, pepper- 
mint, rosemary, catnip, occasionally employed for flavoring, belong to the 
mint family. All of them possess a volatile oil more or less medicinal, 
but not toxic unless in large quantities. 

Pawpaw and pineapple, as fruits, are considered in Volume I, Chap- 
ter XV, page 490, and are said to contain digestive ferments similar 
to trypsin and aniylopsin, acting in alkaline or neutral media, as do 
also the insectivorous plants not used as food. These ferments are not 
so sensitive to temperature as animal ferments, but are destroyed by 
boiling. 

Rye and com are subject to smut just before ripening. From the 
former the fluid extract of ergot is obtained and from the latter ustilago 
maydis is produced. They are parasitic plants and not themselves used 
as food, but frequently contaminate the cereals. 

Rhubarb, described in Volume T, Chapter XTTT, page 435, is a valuable 
article of diet. Its use as a food or beverage is contra-indicated in per- 



662 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

sons of a gouty diathesis owing to the presence of calcium oxalate in its 
mineral content. 

Tomatoes and sorrel contain considerable amounts of oxalates. Oxalic 
acid poisoning has been reported from the use of rhubarb leaves as greens. 

Rice as a foodstuff was considered at length in a previous section. 
The use of "polished rice" as the principal carbohydrate in the dietary 
undoubtedly leads to the production of beri-beri, a deficiency disease, 
which will be considered at length in Volume III, Chapter XVII. The 
researches of Casimir Funk and others have shown that polished rice is 
devoid of accessory substances — ^vitamines. 

Slippery elm is obtained from the inner bark of the elm tree and is 
a valuable demulcent, and nutritive to a slight degree. 

Sarsaparilla is obtained from the sarsaparilla root and is commonly 
used as a flavor for soft drinks. Its medicinal and toxic action is not of 
sufficient moment to be mentioned. 

Sassafras contains an antiseptic volatile oil, not toxic in ordinary 
doses. The fresh leaves and twigs and the bark of the root are often 
chewed and the latter is made into a tea. 

Tapioca is prepared from the roots of the casava, which was described 
in Volume I, Chapter XIII. The sap of this plant is poisonous, but it 
can be removed by washing. 

Vanilla is obtained from the vanilla bean; its active principles are 
irritating to the skin, conjunctiva, alimentary canal and urinary passages. 
It possesses slight aphrodisiac qualities, but these effects are rare owing 
to the minute quantity employed in foods. 



DISEASES CAUSED BY DIETETIC ERRORS AND VARIOUS FOOD 

POISONS 

It is a well-known fact that diseases may be caused by taking too 
little or too much food, or by an improperly balanced dietary — for in- 
stance, one which does not contain the proper combination of food elements 
in correct proportions. Other factors and influences, the precise nature of 
which are more or less obscure, may also act as etiological factors. Food 
which contains certain poisons or disease germs or parasites taken into 
the body with the food may also act as a causative factor. Personal 
idiosyncrasy to certain foods may occasionally produce illness. Some 
claim that all food idiosyncrasies are due to anaphylaxis. 



DISKASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 663 

Classification of Dietetic Errori Causing Diieaie Dietetic errors may 

act as causative factors in producing a variety of diaeatKMl conditiona: 

(a) InauHicicnt Food. 

(6) Overeatiufj;. 

(c) Imperfectly Balanced Diet 

(d) Foods Containing Animal Parasites or Ova. 

(e) Foods (\)ntninin«^ l^tomains. 

(/) Foods Containinj^ Other Poisons. 

{g) Adulterated Foods. 

(h) Foods (\mtainin^ Mieroiirpjanisms. 

(t) Wholesome F(K)d against which Personal Idiosyncrasy Exists. 

(;) Alcohol as a Food and a Poison. 

(o) INSUFFICIENT FOOD.— The diseases arising from the partaking of 
insufficient food are starvation, malnutrition, nnirasmus and some forms 
of anemia, including chlorotic conditions in young girls who are under- 
fed. Starvation is a condition in which the tissues are not nourished, 
due to the lack of assimilation of food. A well-halanced ration may be 
ingested, but defective metabolism results in inanition from lack of 
ability to absorb and develop force and nutriment from the body. Ex- 
posure to cold accelerates starvation symptoms by reducing the vitality 
of the body. 

(h) OVEREATING.— Overeating, or the taking of improper food, gives 
rise to a great variety of diseases, especially in individuals who have 
predisposing hereditary tendencies to certain maladies. A gourmand may 
not only partake of too much food, but of foods which produce more or 
less irritation of the alimentary tract. This irritation may be the direct 
cause of disease, as in acute indigestion and inflammatory conditions of 
the gastro-enteric tract. 

Temporary overeating at one or two meals may not produce any serious 
effect, but when excess in feeding is long continued, a variety of ills will 
sooner or later result, due to overloading of the alimentary canal and to 
the accumulation of waste matter in the tissues, leading to imperfect 
oxidation processes. The 'injurious effects of overeating lead, first, to 
abnormal fermentation in the alimentary tract w^ith the resulting decom- 
position of starches, fats, sugars and proteins, leaving end prmlucts, par- 
ticularly of protein digestion, which may be reabsorbed into the circu- 
lation, while the former may decompose or pass away unaltered; but if 
the end products of protein digestion are absorlxnl intn tl.o blood, it is 
overwhelmed and the excretory organs overworked. 



664 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

Chronic overeating may lead to certain diseases or diatheses, such as 
obesity, gout, lithemia, oxaluria and the formation of renal, vesical and 
hepatic calculi. This habit may also produce congestion of the liver, 
leading to a condition known as ''biliousness," in which the stomach and 
intestines are engorged, the tongue is heavily coated, the bodily secretions 
are altered in composition, the urine overloaded with urea compounds, 
the liver congested, and finally the nervous and muscular systems are 
depressed as a result of the imperfect digestion and absorption in the 
alimentary tract. This leads to fatigue, lassitude, drowsiness, to physical 
as well as mental depression. Overeating puts a severe tax upon the 
digestive system, at the same time exerts a great strain upon the glandular 
and excretory organs, the liver and kidneys. If the habit is long con- 
tinued, intestinal auto-intoxication and intestinal stasis are inevitable, 
resulting in impaired mental and physical efficiency. An overfed boiler 
soon burns out, its flues become choked with ashes which accumulate 
faster than they can be removed. Overeating is the commonest dietetic 
error, especially with the well to do, and analyzing the question in its 
broadest aspects, we are quite certain that it lays the foundation for more 
diseases than overdrinking. 

(c) IMPERFECTLY BALANCED DIET.— Food in itself may be whole- 
some, and at the same time it may be injurious to the system because 
the ingredients are not properly balanced. The diet may produce anemia 
from lack of meat or other animal or vegetable food sufficiently rich in 
iron. It may produce scurvy from preponderance of salt meat and fish 
and lack of fresh fruits and vegetables. Rickets and scrofula arise from 
errors of infant feeding, such as excess of starchy food and insufficient 
animal food, together with the necessary salts. Foods too rich in fats 
may produce acne or eczema. Constipation sometimes is due to food 
that is highly concentrated or too nutritious, and hence containing too 
little cellulose and water to stimulate peristalsis adequately. It is the 
belief of Giibler and other authorities that an exclusively vegetable diet 
eventually leads to the development of an atheromatous condition of the 
arteries, on account of the large proportion of mineral salts which thus 
enter the blood through vegetables; but this evidence is not convincing. 
It has also been claimed by some authorities that a strictly vegetable diet 
favors the deposition of mineral salts in different parts of the body as 
phosphatic stone, gravel and tartar on the teeth. It is almost impossible, 
however, to select a diet that does not allow, ultimately, the accumulation 
of calcium salts, especially the phosphate. A diet composed largely of 
coarse cereals leads to a roughening of the skin. 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 666 

There are many facts in nature which indicate that man from his 
earliest prehistoric days has been omnivorcms, adapting himaelf to his 
surr()nndin«;s and eatinjj:, in liis priniitivo condition, wluitevcr his cnvi- 
ronnient ati'orded and what he could ol)tain with k«aHt rcHiHtance and with 
least expenditure of labor — vegetables when in season and animal food 
at other times. This is shown in the practically unchan^f>d dentition from 
prehistoric skulls, in the length of the alimentary canal and by the char- 
acter of the digestive organs and secretions existing at present. A study 
of the dietetic habits of the more primitive races of living mankind shows 
that no ariruments can be drawn from them as to the advantages of any 
particular class of foods. 

(d) Foods Containing Animal Parasites or Ova. — Qiiite a number 
of diseases are communicated to man by means of the parasites or their em- 
bryos taken into tlie stonuich with food or drink. In many instances, the 
source of infection is found in the consumption of raw or imperfectly cooked 
swine-flesh, other meats used in the manufacture of sausages, and similar 
preparations which are carelessly handled and come in contact with the 
viscera of the animals in which parasites or embryos in some intermediate 
state of development reside. Another possible source of infection, espe- 
cially by intestinal worm larvae, is in the excrement of animals allowed 
to pollute raw vegetables growing upon the ground. ^Manure used for 
fertilizing purposes, spread around the roots of growing vegetables, and 
the feces of domestic animals infested with worms may contaminate 
vegetables growing low upon the ground and usually eaten raw, such as 
celery, cabbage, lettuce, etc. For this reason no domestic animal should 
be allowed to roam at large in a vegetable garden. We will not take up 
here the subject of these parasites and their effects upon the human sys- 
tem, as the student may find this subject well covered in text-books on 
bacteriology. 

Varieties of Parasites. — The Ameha colt is a parasite whose life 
history is not definitely known, but it causes a form of chronic dysentery 
and is probably taken into the system through drinking water. 

Coccidium oviforyne probably gains entrance into the system through 
drinking water, ingestion of green vegetables or from handling domestic 
pets. Its life history is also obscure. The spores have been found in the 
liver, pleura and other organs of man. 

Trichomonas intesHnalis is a small parasite at times found in the 
stools of man.* 

iThis parasite has been described by George Dock, Am. J. Med, 8c.. toL aci. 
p. 1, 1896. 



666 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

Distoma hepaiicum, or liver fluke, frequently infests the gall-duct or 
the gall-bladder. The embryos are attached to aquatic plants and are 
said to be taken in with them or with drinking w^ater. See Volume III, 
Chapter XIV. 

Bilharzia hwtnatobium, or blood fluke, is found in the urine, and the 
embryos are probably taken into the body with drinking water, especially 
in southern Africa and Arabia. See Volume III, Chapter XIV. 

The presence of intestinal worms, such as Ascaris lumbricoides. Tenia 
solium, and other species of cestodes, require no special dietetic care 
beyond the preventive treatment of avoiding raw or imperfectly cooked 
flesh and submitting the patient to a period of starvation for twenty-four 
hours, to completely empty the alimentary tract of food, before an anthel- 
mintic is administered. There are two principal varieties of tapeworms 
found in man besides four or five others found in the intestines of the 
lower animals. See Volume III, Chapter XIV. 

Tenia solium is a pork tapeworm and is a somewhat rare form. 
Tenia saginata is the beef tapeworm which is produced through eating 
raw or underdone beef. Consult Volume III, Chapter XIV. 

Tenia cucumerina is a very small tapeworm found in the dog and its 
embryos occur in the dog louse. 

Tenia mediocanellata is a segmented worm having a large square head 
and four suckers, by which it maintains its hold upon the intestinal 
mucosa without the aid of booklets. 

The Bothriocephalus latus is a tapeworm found in the north of Europe, 
but it is occasionally imported into the United States. The larvae are 
found in fish. 

The Tenia ecMnococcus is found in the intestines of dogs. Its infec- 
tion in man occurs from handling dogs or from eating green vegetables, 
while the Ascaris lumhricoides is a round worm and a common parasite 
found in man and whose life history is unknown. See Volume III, 
Chapter XIV. 

The Oxyurls vermicularis, or pin-worm, is found in children, from 
infancy up. It is a small parasite which is believed to enter the system 
with raw fruit or food, etc. See Volume III, Chapter XIV. 

AnTcylostomum duodenale is a parasite which has lately attracted 
some attention. Formerly it was little knov^n in the United States. The 
embryos of this parasite are probably taken into the system with drink- 
ing water and also through the skin. It attacks the upper part of the 
intestinal tract and causes severe anemia. It is apt to be found in brick- 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 667 

makers, miners, dirt eaters and bricklayen*. The infwtion is aliio calletl 
hookworm disease or anhylostomiaitU The diafnioHiM, fiiulitif^ the eggs 
in the excrement, is easy. Tlie treatment is H|)e<Mtic!, fasting for one day, 
then a saline purge, followed by thyinoL See also Volume IH ' i..'>. 
ter XIV. 

Filaria sanrpdnis hominis is a parasite found in various j.art- ..t the 
world, and is ])r(>lmMy taken into the system through impure* water. It 
causes hcuiatocliyluria and prodnccs elephantiasis. (Vnlninc III. Chai*- 
ter XIV.) 

Filaria, or Dracunculus inrdinensis, deveh)ps in the eyelo|)s, a small 
crustacean. The larva> are probably taken into the stomach thmugli the 
medium of drinkini^; water and produce inllammatory conditions of the 
skin leading to vesicles and ulcers. 

T rich ore phalua dispar is found in the cecum of man, but d«H»8 not 
usually cause any injurious symptoms. 

Bhabdonema intestinale, or diarrhea wonn. is a small parasite native 
of Cochin China. It produces tropical diarrhea. 

Trichiniasis is a disease caused by eatinj^ the so-called measly pork, 
or pork infected with Trichina spiralis. This parasite, one of the nema- 
tode worms, is only observed spirally coiled. Infection in man is caused 
by the eating of ham and pork from hogs whose botlies contain the para- 
site. When taken into the intestinal canal, the envelope surrounding the 
embryo is dissolved and develops into a full-grown trichina in from three 
to six days. The female produces embryos by the thousands, which are 
found several weeks later in the voluntary muscles. In Germany, raw 
pork is eaten with greater frequency perhaps than in other countries. 
Trichiniasis, therefore, is commoner in that country than in tlie United 
States. A temperature of 140° F. kills the parasite and the only sure 
way of preventing this disease is the thorough cooking of all pork, ham, 
or sausage made from swine flesh. The symptoms of this disease are 
Tioticed four or five days after eating raw pork or ham. The patient 
will suffer from severe abdominal cramps, with vomiting and diarrhea. 
General muscular prostration may also be present, which may or may 
not be followed by chills. In some cases the gastro-intestinal symptoms 
may not be of sufficient severity to attract attention. There will be 
severe pain in the invaded muscles, with an increase in temperature of an 
intermittent or remittent character. If the diaphragm is invaded or tlie 
muscles of respiration affected, there will \ye more or less dyspnea. If 
the parasites reach the face, jaw and phar%mx, mastication and degluti- 
tion may be difficult or, later, impossible. There may also be noticed 

44 



668 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

urticaria and more or less disturbance of the nervous system. Eosinophilia 
is quite characteristic. 

(e) FOODS CONTAINING PTOMAINS.— Foods containing ptomains are 
dangerous to life and health, both on account of the living micro- 
organisms and other products. Various forms of food when decomposed, 
contaminated, or improperly prepared, may produce toxic symptoms. 
Ptomains and leukomains are substances of a protein nature which 
resemble the powerful vegetable alkaloids in their composition and poi- 
sonous effects. They are formed in the alimentary canal by the decom- 
position or putrefaction of nitrogenous foods. Some of these poisonous 
products are found in animal matter which is undergoing decomposition, 
such as tyrotoxicon in old cheese and mytilotoxicon in shellfish under 
certain conditions. They have been found in pork, sausages, potted meat, 
ice-cream, mouldy bread, oysters, mussels, crabs, lobsters, mackerel, eels 
and conger eels. Ermenglin(l) says that the toxic ptomains found 
sometimes in preserved meat, ham, beans, etc., are due to a specific micro- 
organism, the Bacillus hotulinus, which secretes a soluble ptomain, called 
botulin; it is intensely poisonous, but is destroyed at a temperature of 
60° to 70° C. The bacillus which produces it is destroyed at 85° C, 
so that thorough cooking should prevent all danger from this source, 
provided there is no fresh infection after it is cooked. 

The artificial cultivation of microorganisms has proved that they 
are capable of forming substances which have distinct physiological 
actions that are sometimes highly poisonous. Brieger calls these poi- 
sonous ptomains, toxins. Many of these microorganisms flourish in beef- 
juice, milk and various solutions of nitrogenous foods. Conditions are 
most favorable for the growth and development of toxins in the alimentary 
canal. When these ptomain poisons are ingested, therefore, they are 
readily absorbed by the intestinal mucosa. It is probable that ptomain 
poisoning would occur much more frequently than it does were it not for 
the fact that the liver acts as a guard at the gateway for the admission of 
nutritive material for the body and is capable of destroying many poisons 
which enter into it from the intestines through the branches of the portal 
vein. 

We have instances of the liver acting as a bodyguard to the system. 
A poisonous snake bite of the surface of the body might prove highly 
poisonous by immediate absorption of toxic material into the circulation, 
whereas the poisonous surface, if brought to the mouth and swallowed, 
causes no harm, for it is absorbed from the alimentary canal and is 
destroyed by the liver before reaching the nervous system. The same is 



DISKASKS CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 669 

true of putrefying meat, which, in sniull (luantitieii, may not produce 
severe gastro-intestinal symptoms or ('<mHtitiitional cliHtiirlm!icf»«, aiui vol 
if inociilatod tlirougli a cut in the finger may caUBe symptoms of a violent 
septic infection. 

The symptoms of ptomain pt>i8oning may (]G\'clop in from fifteen to 
twenty min\itea, or may be dehiyed as many hours after the meal. Some- 
times the symptoms nniy bo that of a simple urticaria, or there may be 
formed large, round or oval .swellings or wheals, having a whitish center, 
pink or red edges, and attended with intolerable itching. In other cases, 
there may be pvmptonis of sufT(x»atlon, extreme mnHcuhir wcakni»«.s f<Tble 
heat action, purging, cramps of the extremities and other choleric symp- 
toms. Ptomains may be developed from a variety of focxls, but the 
principal sources from which poisoning from time to time ocrcurs arc meat, 
sausage, fish, mussels, cheese and milk. Crnstacea, and to a Wm degree 
other foods, may develop similar symptoms, even if cpiite fresh and uneon- 
taniinated, due to idiosyncrasy which in turn is often, and according to 
some authorities, always, to be explained as an anaphylactic phenomena. 
Such cases may equal or exceed in severity those due to ptomains, but 
they are usually more prompt in their onset and of shorter duration. 

Kreotoxismus. — Kreotoxismus, or meat poisoning, follows the inges- 
tion of decomposed flesh. Diseased raw meats and those partially cooked 
have given rise to serious symptoms of poisoning. Even thorough chok- 
ing of such meats may not always make them safe for food. The flesh of 
animals that have died of any disease is unfit for hnman consumption, and 
the old Mosaic law, ''Ye shall not eat anything that dieth of itself '(2), 
set forth in Deuteronomy, is a good hygienic rule. Ham poisoning some- 
times occurs and other meats have been known to pnxluce toxic 8ym|>- 
toms. Among these may be mentioned beef, veal, pork and fowl, pork 
pies, ribs of beef, goose-grease, in fact almost every kind and fonn of 
canned meats. The practice of placing undrawn poultrv in cold storage 
should be forbidden, instead of required by law, especially if it is kept 
too long a period of time before removal from cold storage. Gartner's 
bacillus, the Bacillus enteritides, is developed in cold storage meats and 
is thought to be the immediate cause of kreotoxismus. 

BoTULiSMUS. — Allar.tiasis, or sausage poisoning, is probably due to 
the emplo}Tnent of improper methods of preparation. It has been known 
for more than one hundred years and is now becoming less frequent, as 
the causes which give rise to the disease are becoming better known to 
sausaire makers. Formerly, blood, although decomposed, was often used, 
and in other instances the sausage was not properly cured, the outside 



670 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

being smoked and rendered harmless, while the center was soft and 
highly poisonous, due to the specific Bacillus hotulinus. Such sausage, 
the outside of which was eaten while fresh, exhibited no ill effects, . while 
those who partook of the center were made ill. 

Von Faber, in 1821(3), ^^observed sixteen persons who were made 
sick by eating fresh unsmoked sausage made from the flesh of a pig which 
had suffered from an abscess on its neck. Five of the patients died. 
The symptoms were as follows : There were constriction of the throat and 
difficulty in swallowing, retching, vomiting, colic-like pains, vertigo, 
hoarseness, dimness of vision and headache. Later on, in severe cases, 
there was complete exhaustion, and finally paralysis. The eyeballs were 
retracted; the pupils, which did not respond to light, were sometimes 
dilated and then contracted, and the upper lids were paralyzed. The 
tonsils were swollen, but not as in tonsillitis. Liquids which were not 
irritating could be carried as far as the esophagus, when they were 
rejected from the mouth and nose with coughing. Solid food could not 
be swallowed. On the back of the tongue and in the pharynx there was 
observed a puriform exudate. Obstinate constipation existed in all, while 
the sphincter ani was paralyzed. Breathing was easy, but all had a 
croupous cough. The skin was dry and there was incontinence of urine. 
There was no delirium, the mind remaining clear to the last." 

IcHTHYOTOxiSMus. — Ichtlivotoxismus, or fish poisoning, may occur 
under various conditions: (a) certain fish are known to be unfit for food, 
while others, edible at ordinary times, are poisonous during the spawn- 
ing season ; (h) diseased or decomposed fish, which in its normal condi- 
tion and when fresh, is edible, when diseased or decomposed may produce 
toxic symptoms; (c) spoiled canned fish and shellfish are the most fre- 
quent causes of fish poisoning; (d) some fish may be infected with 
bacterial diseases which may cause diseases in man; (e) like other 
nitrogenous food, fish may be infected with bacteria producing toxins. 

Kobert, according to 'Novy and Vaughan, makes the following classi- 
fication of poisonous fish: 

(a) Fish which are supplied with poison glands connected with barbed fins, 
with which they wound their enemies, hke the poison of snakes. These cause pros- 
tration, convulsions, and death in man. 

(b) The genus tetrodon, a Japanese fish which has poisonous ovaries. They 
are less poisonous in winter, when the ovaries are inactive. Kakke, a disease of 
Japan and other Eastern countries, is believed to be due to the eating of certain 
varieties of the Scombri dee family. 

(c) Certain other fish whose flesh and glands are harmless may be dangerous 
on account of the decomposing substances of corals, etc., on which they feed. 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 071 

(d) Poisoning due to ptomains, of which Anrep has uiulal«d Iwo. Tbeiie an; 
due to tlie fi;;li hv'nitr i„lV<'to<l with saprophytic baetena. The sympUims are prin- 
cipally due to involvenu-nt of the firnKtro-intestinol tract and nervous [^yitaii— 
nuusea, vomiting?, diarrhea, prostration, raahim, etc. 

iMytilotoxismis.— :Mytil()t()xiHimiH, or p«.iHoiiing from muMeb or 
other shellfish, usuall.y resultd from infection witli ptonmins cloveloped 
by microorganisms. The idiosyncrasy of many iMTHons to HhrllHsh poi- 
soning is well known. To such persons tlje eating of dam broth or raw 
oysters, crabs or lobsters, may ^rive rise to violent outhreiiku of urticaria 
or eczema, or the production of headache, nausea, vomiting and pureeing. 

According to Vaughan and Novy, there are three kinds pf shellHsh 
poisoning : 

(a) Where the principal symptoms are pastro-inlestinal, and of varyinf? in- 
tensity. This form may at times be choleriform (Coombe). Death may follow 
very rapidly — in Coombe's case it occurred in two days. 

(b) The most frequent form is that in which symptoms are principally ner- 
vous, coming on shortly after the mussels are eaten. There is a sensation of heat 
and itching; a rash of an urticarial, and sometimes of a vesicular nature, appeara. 
There may be dyspnea and death may result from convulsive tremors or coma. 
Death has followed from this form in three days. 

(c) In the third form the symptoms are those of an intoxication resembling 
alcoholism followed by paralysis and death. Coombe, in 1827, reported death 
as early as three hours after eating the mussels and others six or seven bodrs 
and still others after longer intervals. 

The poison in shellfish is found chiefly in the liver of the bivalve 
and it is not known whether a certain species is always toxic or whether 
ordinary mussels become poisonous under special circumstances. 

It is a well-known fact, however, that shellfish "tonged" from filthy 
water are apt to be poisonous. Oyster beds near the outlet of a city 
sewer are dangerous for food. Many cases of poisoning have l)een reported 
from the eating of oysters taken from the near vicinity of the outlet of 
a drain from a public water-closet. Shellfish that are fresh, that have 
been taken from clean water and that have l)een washed with clean water, 
are generally safe. Typhoid fever has been transmitted through oysters 
that have imbibed the bacilli from sewage. 

Tyrotoxismus. — Tyrotoxismus, or cheese poisoning, may result from 
the ingestion of cheese which apparently presents no suspicious aspect 
and which to all appearances is entirely wholesome. Some authorities 
believe that the ill effects resulting from the ingestion of certain cheeses 
are due to fatty acids. Numerous cases of cheese |viisoning have been 
discussed and reported. In 1883 and 1884 the Michigan State Board 



672 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

of Health reported some three hundred cases of cheese poisoning. Per- 
sons who ate the cheese were attacked and the symptoms varying with 
the quantity ingested, beginning with vomiting, purging and with watery 
stools; the tongue, at first white, later red, dry and parched. The pa- 
tients complained of pain in the region of the stomach. The circula- 
tion was feeble, heart's action irregular, and in some cases there was 
marked cyanosis. Vaughan studied these cases, and as a result claimed 
that the poisoning was due to twelve different varieties of cheese, most 
of which came from one factory. The cheese differed but little from 
ordinary good cheese ; but a test with domestic pets proved that dogs and 
cats would accept the good cheese and reject this particular bad cheese. 
The poison was isolated as a crystallized, highly toxic substance, which 
Vaughan called tyrotoxicon. This special ptomain induces vertigo, 
nausea, vomiting, rigors, chills, severe epigastric pain and marked pros- 
tration. 

Galactotoxismus. — Galactotoxismus, or milk poisoning, may follow 
the ingestion of decomposed milk. Newton and Wallace report an inter- 
esting series of cases of milk poisoning due to the presence of tyrotoxicon 
in milk. The milk under observation came from a dairy where the 
milking was done at noon and at night. It was found that the noon milk 
was the one that was poisonous. The milk, immediately on being drawn, 
was placed in cans and promptly delivered to customers in the middle 
of the day. The heat permitted the growth of bacteria with the forma- 
tion of toxin. There have been numerous recorded instances where this 
toxin in milk has produced poisoning. Vaughan and Novy have demon- 
strated its presence in ice cream and custard. The summer diarrheas of 
children are doubtless largely due to this form of poisoning. 

There is no question but that many diarrheal diseases are caused by 
milk. This subject is one of great importance, since, during the warm 
months, 97 per cent of all the cases that occur in children are bottle-fed 
babies. Only milk, therefore, which is known to be pure and produced 
under the most watchful and careful observation in its transmission from 
the cow to the consumer should be allowed the infant as a food. The 
milk is a sterile fluid when leaving the cow, but if carelessly handled, 
many cases of diarrhea and death are the result. It is not absolutely 
known just what bacteria give rise to summer diarrhea. Eecent investi- 
gators point out the Bacillus dysentericus as an organ most commonly 
present. 

Foot and Mouth Disease (4). — Aphthous fever, epidemic stomatitis, 
is an infectious disease of animals, most frequently seen in cattle, sheep 



DISK ASKS CAUSKI) BY FOOD POISOXS 673 

and pigs, and rarely observed in iU^^^s, . ..i. „„.. i.„,,,. U ,^ , juir«.i.r./.M 
by the presence of vesicles and ulcers tipun tlio liuctnil iniicims membrane, 
in the clefts about the feet and upon llu» udilers. It may occur in epi- 
demics, when it spreads with great rapl<iity. The diMettiie waJi studied 
as early as 1834, when three (Jennan veterinary Hurginmii drank the milk 
from infected cows and developed the disease. Infants and children have 
contracted the disease by drinking contaminateil milk. The disease can 
also be transmitted through eating clicese or butter made from the milk 
of infected cattle, as well as through contact with the c<mtents of the 
vesicles in the mouths or upon the teats of the diseased animals. Meat 
from such animals does not appear to be infwtious. Xo micnMirganiMm 
has yet been demonstrated to be responsible for this disease, and while 
it may be of microbic origin, the 8pe<Mtic cause is probably too small to 
be visible through the microscope. Animals may be immunized by i 
vaccine elaborated by Loettter. The milk from a cow suffering from this 
disease is yellowish in color, of a nauseous, bitter taste. The oontagious 
principle is destroyed by heat, but the flesh, milk and milk products of 
animals with foot-and-mouth disease should not be used for food. Infants 
may be infected from diseased cows and a connection has been suggested 
between the aphthous stomatitis of children and foot-and-mouth diseases 
in cattle. 

(/) FOODS CONTAINING OTHER POISONS— Graix Poisonino. — It some- 
times happens that flesh becomes poisonous from the animal having fed 
upon some noxious substance previous to being slaughtered ; for instance, 
pigs fed upon garbage may have their flesh so infected as to cause diar- 
rhea. It is a well-known fact, mentioned in Volume I, Chapter XII, 
when discussing animal foods, that the flavor and digestibility of game, 
and even fish, varies much with the season of the year and the consequent 
nature of the food upon which the animal has been fed. 

It is a prevalent notion that oysters are not wholesome food from May 
1 until September 1, or in the months which are spelled without the letter 
^'R." This is to a certain degree correct on account of the greater 
tendency to decomposition in warm weather. It may apply even to the 
oyster before it is taken from the water. Danger of infection of typhoid 
would obviously extend well into the ^vnnter. In the chapter on "Milk" 
we mentioned the fact that cow's milk is unwholesome for infant's food 
when the cow is allowed pasturage in which certain herbs and weeds 
grow and which if ingested by the cow will contaminate the milk. There 
are onlv a few instances of serious illness of adults caused by eating 
meat which became poisoned through the animals having eaten noxious 



674 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

foods before being slaughtered. There is a case on record in which a 
large dose of tartar emetic was administered to an ox. The animal died 
and the meat subsequently was found to contain enough of the substance 
to poison severely those who ate it. 

In Volume I, Chapter XII, "Animal Foods," we pointed out that 
the reason game sometimes disagrees is on account of the nature of the 
food upon which the animal has been feeding. This is particularly true 
of grouse and pheasants in various parts of the country at certain seasons 
of the year. The laurel buds act as a toxic poison which penetrates the 
flesh of fowl. Likewise, hares that feed upon the rhododendron are poi- 
sonous. Thompson, in his valuable work on "Practical Dietetics,'' 
records a curious case of poisoning which occurred in a young ladies' 
boarding school at Amherst, Mass. In this case the fowl was a roast 
turkey and the young ladies who partook of the flesh of this fowl showed 
symptoms of atropin poisoning. It was afterwards ascertained that this 
bird had been fed largely upon deadly nightshade berries. 

Grain poisoning occurs principally from old, overripe grain and 
mouldy flours which develop poisons from the decomposition of their 
gluten. The old authors usually refer to three forms of grain poisoning : 
(a) ergotism; (h) pellagra, and (c) lathyrism. These diseases are found 
almost exclusively among the squalid and destitute. The effects are 
principally due to insufficient nourishment combined with the specific 
poison from the grain. The well to do and properly nourished are prac- 
tically insusceptible to this disease. 

SiTOToxisMus. — Sitotoxismus, or ergotism, is produced by a fungus 
known as Claviceps purpurea which grows upon rye. The history of this 
disease is interesting. The malady described in the twelfth century as 
"St. Anthony's fire," '^ was at a later date diagnosed as grain poisoning. 
It is not the author's intention to take time to describe here the horrible 
epidemics of grain poisoning which occurred in the middle ages. Within 
recent years epidemics have occurred in Eussia. The symptoms of 
ergotism may be briefly divided into two groups, one of the gangrenous 
and the other the convulsive type. In the gangrenous form of ergotism 
the early symptoms are principally those of vasomotor disturbances, 
affecting principally the extremities. There will be marked anesthesia, 
numbness, prickling pain and spasmodic twitching of the muscles, with 
restricted circulation. In the convulsive variety, the nervous system is 
profoundly disturbed, with symptoms of lassitude, headache, spasms of 
the muscles which may be tetanic in character, lasting sometimes through 

1 Usually taken to mean erysipelas. 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISOXS 675 

many days. This spasmodic rigidity of the miwclei* i.w.v give place to 
violent convulsions wliich may become general and fatal. Mental dii- 
turbanccs and symptoms of cord involvement may aupcrvcnc The di«- 
oaso should W (litlcn^ntiatcd fnuii eri/thromrlahjia, UnynatuVH dUettHc, or 
acrodynia, whose symptoms it simnhitcY. Jiottger lias given a simple test 
to detect ergotism in Hour. A small quantity of flour is mixed with 
otluT and a few crystals of oxalic acid are abided. The mixture is then 
boiled and allowed to settle. When clear, if ergot b prescut, a red tinge 
will be imparted to the fluid. 

LupiNosis. — Lupinosis, or lathynsitiy is a poisoning due to chick- 
pea vetch, which is sometimes used for the adulteration of the flour of 
various cereals. Poisoning occurs from the meal ground from this 
chick-pea. The disease was noted first in the seventeenth century, when, 
durinir the wheat famine at Allahabad, the inhabitants used this chick- 
pea vetch for food and an epidemic followed. It was ob8er\'ed by James 
Irving. Lupinosis is a rare disease and little is known of its exact nature. 
The poison seems to affect the extremities, producing stiffness of the 
joints simulating spastic paraplegia. 

Pellagra. — Po]lai»ra, Mai/ldismus, is a disease of the highest im- 
portance. It is endemic-epidemic in its nature and for nearly two hun- 
dred years has been a problem of paramount importance to physicians 
and publicists in southern Europe. Important legislation has lieen 
enacted, and large expenditures of both money and talent of the highest 
order have been devoted to the solution of the problem which has proved 
the greatest menace to public health. This disease has prevailed so 
extensively where corn is an article of diet that it has been ascribed to 
a fungus growth upon mouldy corn. But the area of com consumption 
is now known to be wider than that of pellagra, and pellagra is found 
where corn is not an ordinary article of diet. Recent researches, while 
they have added many facts to our previous knowledge of the disease, have 
left its exact etiology and nature still unsettled. The United States was 
thought to be free from this disease, but within the last ten years it has 
been reported from all sections, from Maine to Florida and from Vir- 
ginia to California. 

Recent investigations have been made into the etiology and pathologv 
of pellagra by E. M. Purdue(5), who claims that pellagra is a chronic 
intoxication caused by colloidal silica in drinking water. lie asserts that 
the disease is strictly localized and contracted in zones where the water 
commonly drunk by the people is in contact with an argillaceous terrain. 
According to his theory, pellagra is not dependent upon com alimenta- 



676 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

tion and is not caused by infestation with filarial. He maintains that 
it is not a parasitic disease, not transmitted by the ^'buffalo gnat" nor by 
stomoxys calcitrans. Purdue's views have not been corroborated by 
scientific research and are given herewith to show the views of one who 
has had a large experience with pellagrins. 

From a careful study of the latest literature on the subject, it seems 
that in conditions where sodium salts are constantly ingested, pellagra 
is rare, unless the amount ingested is overbalanced by the amount excreted. 
It appears that this may occur under vegetable diet, in starvation, dis- 
ease and so on. It also appears that a lack of sodium salts eventually 
interferes with the excretion of purins, allowing them to accumulate in 
the blood and to cause irritations similar to those seen in pellagra. 
Diminution of the sodium salts, we know, reduces the alkalinity of the 
blood to perhaps the point of acidity^ in the excretions at least, and this 
interferes with the activity of the oxidases in their protective function 
against invading organisms. The general opinion in Europe is that 
pellagra advanced with the extensive cultivation of corn and the more 
general adoption of this new cereal as an article of food. Stelwagon, in 
his work on skin diseases, says the majority of persons who contract 
pellagra have lived for years mainly on a vegetable diet. 

All pellagrins are vegetarians almost entirely or in greater part. 
There exist in the carbohydrate foodstuffs toxic substances, or lack of 
vital substances, which when the foodstuffs (themselves not necessarily 
spoiled) are consumed over a more or less long period of time produce 
injurious effects upon the organs of the body. All physicians of large 
experience in the treatment of pellagra are agreed that the milder cases 
improve if kept in a hospital at rest and upon a fairly liberal diet, with 
plenty of fresh meat, fresh vegetables, milk, etc. 

The Thompson-McFaddin Pellagra Commission has worked in Spar- 
tanburg County, S. C, where practically all pellagrins are cotton-mill 
hands and conditions are not comparable to other countries where the 
disease is just as prevalent. Yet they came to these conclusions: (a) the 
simulium is discredited; (h) animal inoculation and experimental study 
of intestinal bacteria have not yielded conclusive results; (c) no evidence 
of inheritance is obtainable; (d) the immediate results of hygienic and 
dietetic treatment in adults have been good, but after returning to former 
conditions of environment and living, most of these cases have recurred. 
The prognosis in children is very much more favorable; (e) occAipation 
has no influence. 

Fischer (6), Abderhalden(7), Mendel (8) and Osborne(9) have shown 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 677 

the great variation in composition of proteinB in regard to content of 
various amino acida. Certain proteina lack, or are deficient in, oerUin 
amino acids necessary for growth and nniintenance. All pmteina derived 
from anunal sources, with the exc^^ption of gelatin*, Mem to be suitable 
for human consumption, as they contain all the necenary oomponenU in 
right proportion. Some of the vegetable proteins are deficient in thia 
rcspcx't, notably the protein of corn, hut as yet it has not been sufficiently 
l)roved that corn per se is the offending or caunative agent 

Funk points out that vitamines are essential for the maintenance of 
the health. Animal foods and vegetables contain these in varying 
amounts; meats are especially rich; j)olished rice is devoid of them. 
Funk argues that pellagra is a disease due to the lack of vitamines in 
the food, analogous to the production of beriberi through the large con- 
sumption of polished rice. 

By permission of the governor, an experiment was carried out at the 
farm of the Mississippi State Penitentiary by Surgeon Joseph Oold- 
berger and Assistant Surgeon G. A. Wheeler.^ This experiment waa 
undertaken for the purpose and possibility of producing pellagra in 
healthy human white adult males by a restricted, one-sided, mainly car- 
bohydrate (cereal) diet. Governor Earl Brewer oflFered to pardon all the 
convicts who would volunteer for the experiment. They were assured 
that they would receive proper care throughout the experiment, should it 
be necessary. Of the eleven convicts who volunteered for this experi- 
ment, six developed a typical dermatitis and mild gastro-intestinal symp- 
toms. The diet given was bountiful and more than sufficient to sustain 
life. It differed from that given the other convicts merely in the absence 
of meats, milk, eggs, beans, peas and similar proteid foods. In every 
other particular the convicts selected for the experiment were treated 
exactly as were the remaining convicts. They had the same routine work 
and discipline, the same periods of recreation and the same water to 
drink. Their quarters were better than those of the other convicts. The 
diet given them consisted of biscuits, fried mush, grits and brown gravy, 
sirup, corn bread, cabbage, sweet potatoes, rice, collards and coffee with 
sugar. This is the usual ration of the poorer classes of the South. All 
components of the dietary were of the best quality and were properly 
cooked. As a preliminary, and to determine if the convicts were afflicted 
wdth any other disease, they were kept under obsen'ation from Febru- 
ary 4 to April 9, 1915, two and a half months, on which date the one- 
sided diet was begun. 

1 Of the United States Public Hygienic Laboratory. 



678 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

Although the occurrence of nervous symptoms and gastro-intestinal 
disturbances was noted early, it was not until September 12, or about 
five months after the beginning of the restricted diet, that the skin 
symptoms so characteristic of pellagra began to develop. These symp- 
toms are considered typical, every precaution being taken to make sure 
that they were not caused by any other disease. The convicts upon whom 
the experiment was being made, as well as twenty other convicts who 
were selected as controls, were kept under continuous medical surveillance. 
'No cases of pellagra developed in camp excepting among those men who 
were on the restricted diet. In this experiment Drs. Goldberger and 
Wheeler were able to produce pellagra in six of the prisoners, who were 
promptly pardoned and afterward restored to health by a liberal diet of 
fresh animal and leguminous foods, poultry, eggs and milk. The experi- 
menters have therefore drawn the conclusion that pellagra has been caused 
in at least six of the eleven volunteers as a result of the one-sided diet 
on which they subsisted. 

This announcement by an officer of the Public Health Service (10) 
offers the first insight as to the cause and cure of pellagra, which has 
been increasing alarmingly throughout the United States during the past 
eight years. It is conservatively estimated that 75,000 cases of this 
disease occurred in the United States during 1915, of which number at 
least 7,500 died. 

We are of the opinion that pellagra is a deficiency disease due in 
part, if not largely, to the present methods of milling corn. In the 
olden days the corn was ground on the old-fashioned buhr millstone and 
very little of the outer husk was removed, but in the present modem 
methods of milling, the meal is ground fine and passed through a very 
fine bolting cloth which practically removes all of the pericarp of the 
grain. Like polished rice, the corn is devitalized; all the vitam- 
ines of the grain of corn are removed in the milling. We are of the 
firm opinion that this plays an important role in the causation of pellagra. 
We will leave the disease as one due to deficiency of vitamines in the 
foodstuffs. 

As a rule, pellagra is chronic, beginning in the spring and subsiding 
in the summer, but returning with greater severity the following spring. 
It runs on year after year until the patient succumbs. In adults the 
symptoms begin with headache, dizziness, ringing in the ears, a burning 
sensation of the skin, especially in the hands and feet, followed by diar- 
rhea; at the same time a red rash appears on the skin, resembling ery- 
sipelas, the red spots being tense and painful, especially when exposed 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 079 

to the sun. When the spots disappear at the clouc of summer, the skin 
remains roui^^li and dry. The tongue will present a red and dry appear- 
ance. A burning feeling in the month is complained of, and more or 
less pain on swallowing. Soon the nervous system shows signs of involve- 
ment, first by ptosis of the eyelids aiul dilatation of the pupil, and, later, 
pigmentary changes are observed in the skin, resembling thoie of Addi- 
son's disease. 

Actinomycosis. — Actinomycosis in a rare disease due to an infection, 
not by bacterium, but by a fungus calh'd Sireplothrix artinomyces. The 
disease is comparatively rare in America. No evidence exists to prove 
that it has been transmitted through articles of diet, but cases are recorded 
where the infection has been traced to barley sheatlis. Prof. W. H. 
Tliompson(ll) reports the case of a farmer who nuiintained to his physi- 
cian that the disease in his case was caused from inhalation of musty 
dust while he was winnowing oats in his barn. The early symptoms of 
many cases begin in the lungs and may infect the whole system, includ- 
ing, according to some reports, even the brain. Abscesses may occur in 
bone, while others invade such organs as the liver and spleen. When, as 
is often the case, the mycelium first develops in the mouth, it may attack 
the jaw, forming a tumor closely resembling a sarcoma. 

Beriberi. — Beriberi, or haklce, is a curious disease which is both 
epidemic and endemic on the eastern coast of the Asiatic continent. It 
also prevails among the Chinese in California. According to Manson, 
up to 1883, "over one-fourth of the entire number of Japanese sailors 
w^ere affected with this disease. In 1883 there were 236 cases among 
5,349 men. The following year a more liberal allowance of nitrogenous 
food was added to the diet and the following year only 41 cases were 
reported. In the year 1887 the disease had been completely driven out 
of the Japanese Navy." It has been firmly established that beriberi is 
largely confined to countries whose chief food is rice. It is not beyond 
the possibility, though, that if white bread w^ere used in America to the 
extent that the Japanese use rice, beril)eri would appear in this country. 
The reduction of beriberi in the Japanese Navy by the addition of meat 
to the dietary was followed by the discovery that the disease is restricted 
to people using polished rice as the principal constituent of their diet 
The main s\anptoms of the disease are emaciation, with widespread 
edema, paralysis, muscular atrophies and contractures of the extremities; 
sometimes there is a cardiac breakdown. All stiiges of degeneration are 
found in the peripheral nerves. 

Following the discoveries that beriberi is largely caused by eating pol- 



680 TOXIC SUBSTA:NrCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

ished rice, investigators made some experiments by feeding fowls on 
polished rice exclusively. A fowl fed on this diet shows anorexia and 
great loss of weight, as much as 45 per cent. After one to six weeks, 
acute symptoms come on, consisting chiefly of paralysis of the legs and 
wings. 'None of these results follow where fowls are fed on unpolished 
rice as the sole food. 

Eykmann, in an exhaustive research on beriberi, has been able to 
show that the addition of rice polishings (pericarp or rice paste) to the 
polished rice prevented the appearance of the disease. Finally, a curative 
substance not a protein, or a carbohydrate, or a fat, or an inorganic salt, 
was extracted from the rice polishings. Grijns, later, showed that similar 
curative substances were obtainable from beans, meat and yeast. Finally, 
Casimir Funk extracted from rice polishings a crystalline curative sub- 
stance which he calls vitamine. This remarkable substance exists in 
exceedingly minute quantity and may act like enzymes, catalytically 
changing a large amount of food. Vitamines are found in the outer 
layers of grains, but not in the starchy center, thus accounting for beri- 
beri after the use of polished rice and for pellagra in those whose diet is 
composed largely of finely milled grain meal. These vitamines seem to 
be destroyed in many corned, picked or dried foods, thus accounting for 
scurvy. Kecent researches have demonstrated the fact that they exist 
largely in all of the natural foods — milk, eggs, meat — and to a less 
extent in yeast, fresh fruits and uncooked vegetables, particularly pota- 
toes, whose juice is so effective in scurvy. This subject opens up a new 
field. Undoubtedly the question of the causation and prevention of 
beriberi will be settled beyond doubt in the very near future. The 
reader may be referred to Volume II, Chapter VII, for further informa- 
tion on the subject of vitamines, and also to Volume III, Chapter XVII. 

AviTAMiNOSES. — Avitaminoses, according to H. Stassano(12), are 
diseases resulting from a deficiency of vitamines in the diet. The vitam- 
ines are complex crystalline substances belonging to a chemical group 
hitherto unknown. The nitrogen is not combined in the amin radicle 
and can be extracted only in part by the Kjeldahl method. The charac- 
teristic syndromes of the avitaminoses are classified as follows: (a) the 
syndrome of degeneration of nerves with paralyses and contractures; 
(h) the cardiac syndrome with dilatation of the right heart, accompanied 
by dyspnea, cyanosis and oliguria, and (c) the syndrome of anasarca, 
hydropericardium, hydrothorax and ascites; all of these three syndromes 
belong to the group of cases properly called beriberi; (d) the classical 
syndrome of scorbutus, and (e) the syndrome of pellagra. In all of the 



DISKASKS CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 081 

above conditions tlio following artieleu of diet which are rich in vitaniinca 
have been found to be of curative as well aa of prophylactic value: 
human milk, fresh cow's milk, butter, choenc, yolk of egg, beef juice, 
fresh tomatoes, fresh legumes and soups containing them, freuh fruibi or 
their juices, the sauce of stewed fruitii, whole corn of wheat bn*ad, un- 
polished riee, sli«rl,tly roasted beef, freah yeaat, extracta and preparations 
of yeast and cod liver oil. 

ig) ADULTERATED F(X)DS.— Tho adulteration of food is a tubjoct of 
great importance and covers such a wide scope that it can be only cur- 
sorily mentioned (i:]) {see Bibliography at end of this cliaptcr). Tho 
subject is one of such great importance to the (xmununity at large that 
the Federal Government, on June 30, 1900, enacted legal restrictions 
to insure the proper inspection, regulation and sale of ffKKlstuffs. The 
Federal Food and Drugs Act, usually referred to as **Tho I'ure F^kkI 
Law," and on which subsequent legislation by most of the statca has lKH?n 
largely based, defines the main types of adulteration. Acc<jrding to this 
law, a food is deemed adulterated; 

(a) If any substance has been mixed or packeci with it so as to re<luce or 
lower or injuriously aflfect* its quality or strength. 

(b) If any substance has been substituted, wholly or in part. 

(c) If any valuable constituent has been wholly or in part abstracted. 

(d) If it be mixed, colored, coated, powdered, or stained in a manner whereby 
damage or inferiority is concealed. 

(e) If it contain any added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient 
which may render it injurious to health. 

(f ) If it consists in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed, or patrid animal 
or vegetable substance, or any portion of an animal unfit for food, or if it be 
the product of a diseased animal or one that has died otherwise than by slaughter. 



This law also deems a food to be misbranded 



. 1 



(a) If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the distinctive name of 
another article. 

(b) If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive or mislead the pnrehaser, or 
purport to be a foreign product when not so, or if the contents shall have lieen 
substituted in whole or in part, or if it fail to bear a statement on the label of 
the quantity or proportion of any narcotic or habit-forming drug which it con- 
tains. 

(c) If, when sold in package form it fails to bear a correct statement of weight, 
measure, or numerical count of its contents; pronsion being made for reasonable 
variations and for certain exemptions. 



1 See Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1006, as amondod .\u«nist 23, 1012, for fuller 



682 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

(d) If the package containing it or its label shall bear any statement, design, 
or device which is false or misleading in any particular. 

Adulterants. — ^Among the common food adulterations may be men- 
tioned the following: isinglass adulterated with gelatin; powdered sugar 
with barium sulphate ; mustard with flour and turmeric ; distilled colored 
vinegar sold as cider vinegar; pickles adulter'ated with iron and copper; 
oleomargarin sold as butter; ground spices adulterated with cocoanut 
shells, rice, flour and ashes; water, sugar and tartaric acid sold as 
lemonade. 

Alcoholic beverages are sometimes adulterated with alum, baryta, 
caustic lime, salts of lead, salicylic acid and various pigments. Wood 
or methyl alcohol is sometimes substituted for grain or ethyl alcohol. 
Wood alcohol is a very dangerous adulterant. Blindness and even death 
have followed its use. A large quantity of ethyl alcohol may be taken 
day after day without causing death, whereas repeated large doses of 
methyl alcohol will speedily cause death. Adulterated alcoholic liquors 
contain fusel oil, tannin, logwood, water, coloring matter and burnt sugar. 
Various grades of cheap whiskey and brandy are manufactured by unscru- 
pulous rectifiers by mixing alcohol, coloring matter and flavoring extracts. 
An imitation of gin is frequently made from cheap spirits, turpentine, 
sugar and water. 

The Adulteration of Malt Liquors. — Adulterated beer may con- 
tain burnt sugar, licorice, molasses, quassia, coriander and caraway seed, 
cayenne pepper, soda, salicylic acid, salt, carbonic acid, artificially intro- 
duced grains other than barley, glycerin, glucose, tobacco and Cocculus 
tndicus. Crampton detected the presence of salicylic acid in more tha»n 
30 per cent of the samples of bottled beer which were brought to him 
for examination. He did not, however, find salicylic acid in draft beer. 
Sulphurous acid is one of the oldest preservatives. Its use is forbidden 
in both France and Germany, where the use of borax is likewise forbidden. 
In this country, borax and sodium bicarbonate are used in beer to correct 
acidity caused by careless and improper brewing, as well as to increase 
the carbonic acid content. Many of the so-called liquid malt extracts 
are nothing more or less than beers, since they have very little or no 
diastasic action and possess no special food value, nor do they offer any 
aid in the digestive processes. Some of this class of malt liquors are 
adulterated and harmful. 

The Adulteration of Wine. — Wine is sophisticated by the addition 
of various substances, usually added as preservatives. Chief among these 



DISEASES CATTSED P.Y FOOD POTSOXS 683 

preservatives is salicylic acid. I;> u . : i ,: utm m Inuiff- uini (for- 
mally. Wine is also adulterati'.l l.\ ...ll.i.- -n^ar, Kiiiiiiiiy «iiUtiiiKM»H, 
coloring matters, salicylic acid and mineral ncidH an prtinervativot. In 
the \vi no-growing districts of Franco wine is fre<iurnt!y "plaHtcred" by 
the addition of calcinm snlphate. Ah j)ointed out by Oampton, **lbe 
sulphuric acid of the lime salts replaces tlie tartaric acid which ia com- 
bined with potash and forms an acid sulphate of potash, while the tartaric 
acid separates out as a tartrate of lime." 

Ai>i LTKRATioN OF LiQi Krus. — Liijueurs are frecpiently adulterated 
and imitated, so that many of them contain injurious coloring matter. 
^laraschino and crrMuo de incnthe are often colored with auiliu dye« and 
sometimes contain a large amount of coloring matter. 

Adulteration of Beverages. — The provisions of the present Pure 
Food Law are so drastic that teas imported into the United States at 
present are practically free from adulteration. Tea is usually adulterated 
by mixing exhausted or foreign leaves with the tea leaves. "Facing" 
consists in treating the tea leaves with plumbago, indigo, or Pniaaian 
blue, the object being to make an inferior tea resemble a better product. 
The adulteration, while not very injurious, is easily detected (see Tea, 
page 540). 

Green and roasted coffee may be imitated. An inferior grade of 
coffee is frequently branded and sold as a better article. Roasted coffee 
may be adulterated with caramel, chicory, pea meal, etc. Even coffeo 
berries are artificially made in moulds out of mixtures of starch, molasses, 
or caramel, chicory, etc. (see Coffee, page 545). 

Cocoa is frequently adulterated by the addition of starch, sugar, 
brick dust, coloring matter and flavoring materials. The cocoa butter 
may be extracted and tallow or other fats substituted. 

Adulteration of Foodstuffs. — Breads fortunately, is a food prod- 
uct which cannot be very easily adulterated without detection, but the 
use of inferior flour in breadmaking is well known. 

Butter may be adulterated with oleomargarin, lard, cotton-seed oil, beef 
tallow and olive oil. Butter and oleomargarin have about the same compo- 
sition and both possess about equal food value. The flavor of genuine 
butter, however, is not to be compared with its substitute. Lard is fre- 
quently adulterated with cotton-seed oil and water, but the adulterants 
are usually harmless. 

Olive oil is frequently adulterated wnth cotton-seed oil; in fact, the 
latter is often sold as olive oil. ^lost of the maple syrup sold is m.ndc 
from glucose. INfaple syrup is also derivp<l fn^m other sugars artifioiMlIy 

45 



584 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

flavored with extracts of hickory hark. Nearly half of the strained honey 
sold is adulterated with glucose. Genuine comb honey cannot be adul- 
terated, since it cannot be made other than by the honey bee {see Honey, 
page 628). 

Baking powders are adulterated with alum in place of cream of tartar. 

Canning of Foods. — Canned meat is now put up in large quantities. 
In many of the large packing houses, often all the meat of the fore 
quarter and the cheaper cuts of the hind quarter are canned. There is 
a tendency to use the leaner carcasses for canning, both because the fat 
beef can be sold at better prices in the fresh state and because the leaner 
meats are more attractive than the fat meats when canned. 

Canning of vegetables is an important and extensive industry in this 
country. The principle depends on the sterilization of the product by 
heat and then protecting it in hermetically sealed vessels from coming 
in contact with the germ-laden atmosphere. 

Chemical preservatives are not generally used in the canning of fruits, 
although they are used in the canning of vegetables. Copper and zinc 
are used extensively to add color to green peas. Lead, tin and zinc may 
be present as a result of unintentional contamination. Lead may gain 
entrance from the solder, which is frequently used in large quantities. 
Preservatives, such as sulphurous acid, salicylic acid, boric acid, etc., are 
frequently added to canned foods. Canned products of the United States 
in 1909 were valued at $157,101,000. 

Adulteration of jams, jellies and preserves is a subject which should 
be mentioned at this point. These food products are sometimes adul- 
terated by supplying the deficiency in pectose bodies by the addition of 
some foreign substance to gelatinize and thus improve the appearance of 
the product. Agar-agar, gelatin, turnip, vegetable marrow, boiled sago, 
and similar substances have been used. The use of apple pulp or goose- 
berry pulp, both of which are rich in pectin, is not so serious an adul- 
teration as the replacement of one fruit juice by another. Another 
adulteration is the addition of coloring matter, very often an anilin color, 
to correct any lack of genuine ripe fruit color. 

Preservatives. — Preservatives in many countries are forbidden by 
law. Borax and boric acid are the most frequent combination. These 
substances, together with sulphurous acid, sulphites and sulphates, 
salicylic acid, benzoic acid and formaldehyde, are most frequently 
employed. 

It may be safely stated that the addition of any chemical preservative 
to food is not only undesirable, but more or less injurious. Borax and 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 685 

boric acid may, however, find tlicir proper uue in preserving meats, sucli 
as hams. Time and experience has proved that meat sprinkled with 
borax and boric acid docs not beoomo Mlimy. The Gennan Oovernment 
lias expressly forbidden the use of nuch chemiciils on meats. Wiloy(14) 
concludes, as a result of his experiin<MitH, thut l)oric acid and borax shouhi 
not be used for this purpose, except where preser\'ntion is a necessity, and 
that articles containinn; lK)ric acid <»r liorax should bo so hilielled. **It 
appears, therefore, that lK)ric acid and borax, when oontinnouMly admin- 
istered in small doses for a long periiMl, or when given in large doses for 
a short period, cause disturbances of :ip|>etite, of digcntion and of health." 

Harrington (15), in discussing tlir ill effects of boric acid on the human 
economy, states that in his opinion l)uric acid may be the direct cause of 
subacute and chronic nephritis; therefore it would appear that individuals 
suffering from Bright's disease would l:>e taking chances in eating fruita 
preserved with borax or boric acid. 

Salicylic acid is widely used as a food preservative, especially in beer, 
malt extracts, preserved fruit and the like. Its action inhibits digestion 
and exerts an irritating action upon the kidneys and bladder. Food 
preserved with salicylic acid is highly injurious in cases of Bright's 
disease. 

Formaldelnjd is used to some extent for the prescn-ation of milk. 
In general, its action as a preservative is both undesirable and dangerous. 

Sulphurous acid is used to some extent for preserving wines. It has 
been used for preserving color in dried fruits. 

Sulphite and hisutphafe of sodium are used for presenting all sorts 
of foods. The latter is largely used for preserving the color of meats, 
but their use is regarded as more or less dangerous. 

Both tin and lead poisoning may occur from the prolonged use of 
preserved meats, vegetables or fruits. These foods are u.Hually preserx-ed 
in tin cans. The lead derived from the can by the various organic acids 
upon the solder (which in this country is 50 per cent lead) and the tin 
used for the inside of the can are eventually dissolved by the organic 

acids in the food. 

Copper is frequently added for the purp..>.^ -f coloring the vegeUble 
or it may gain entrance to the foods from the use of copper or braaa 

kettles. 

Nichel is used in canning green peas to augment their color, and it 
may be found in food cooked in nickel vessels. In the latter event the 
amount is small and may practically be disregarded. 

Zinc is found at times in food, especially in dried apples, particu- 



686 



TOXIC SUBSTAE^CES OF EDIBLE FOODS 



larly when the same are evaporated on galvanized iron racks. Zinc may 
also enter the food from certain kinds of solder. 

Arsenic may be introduced in the food in various ways. It is found 
more particularly in malt liquors, such as beer, malt extracts, syrups and 
foods containing glucose and vinegar. 

The following table, compiled by Professor Sharpless(16), gives the 
articles of food likely to be adulterated, and shows the deleterious, fraudu- 
lent and accidental adulterants: 

FOODS AND THEIR ADULTERANTS 



Articles 



Deleterious 
Adulterants 



Fraudulent 
Adulterants 



Accidental 
Adulterants 



Arrow-root 



Brandy. 
Bread. . 



Butter 



Sulphate of Alum . 



Copper. 



Canned Vegeta- 
bles and meat 

Cheese 



Salts of Copper, 
Lead 



Other starches which are sub 
stituted in whole or in part 
for the genuine article 

Water, burnt Sugar 

Flours, other than Wheat, in 
ferior Flour, Potatoes 

Water, other Fats, excess of 

Salts, Starch 
Excess of Water 



Candy and Con- 
fectionery 

Coffee 



Salts of Mercury Oleomargarm 

in the Rind 
Poisonous Colors, Grape Sugar 

Artificial Es 



Ashes from oven, 
grit from mill- 
stones 

Curd 

Meat damaged in 
the process of 
canning 



Flour 



sences 



Cocoa and Choc- 
olate 

Cayenne Pepper, . 



Flour. . 
Ginger. 



Oxid of Iron and 
other Coloring 
Matters 

Red Lead 



Alum. 



Gin. . . . 
Honey 



Alirni Salt, Spirit 
of Turpentine 



Chicory, Peas, Rye, Beans, 
Acorns, Chebus-nuts, Al- 
mond or other Nut-shells, 
Burnt Sugar, Low-grade 
Coffees 

Animal Fats, Starch, Flour 
and Sugar 

Ground Rice Flour, Salt, Ship- 
bread, Indian Meal 

Ground Rice 

Turmeric, Cayenne Pepper 
Mustard, inferior varieties 
of Ginger 

Water, Sugar 

Glucose, Cane-sugar 



Oxid of Iron 
Grit and sand 



Pollen of various 
plants and in- 
sects 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 687 



FOODS AND THEIR ADULTERANTS-CofKinudrf 



Articles 



Isinglass. 
Lard. . . . 



Mustard. 



Milk. 
Meat. 



Horse Radish. 
Fruit Jellies. . . 



Oatmeal. 
Pickles. . 



Preserves. 
Pepper. . . 



Sago. 
Rum. 



Sugar. 



Spices 

Cloves . . . . 
Cinnamon. 
Pimento.. . 
Tea 



Vinegar , 
Wine 



Deleterious 
Adulterants 



Caustic Lime, 
Alum 

Chromato of Ix*ad, 
Sulphate* of Lime 

Water 

Infested with Para- 
sites 



Fnmduleni 
Adultermnta 



Aeeidflotal 
AduHcnato 



Anilin Colors, Ar- 
tificial Essences 



Salts or Copper, 

Alum 
Anilin Colors 



Cayenne Pepper, 
Artificial Es- 
sences 

Salts of Tin and 
Lead, Gypsum 



(tolatin 

SUirch, Stearin, Salt 

Yellow I^c8, Flour, Turmer- 
ic, Cayenne Pepper 

Burnt Sugar. Annatto 



Turnip 



Apples, Pumpkins, MolaawB. 
Flour, Shipbrcad, 

Meal 
Potato Starch 
Water 



Sulphuric Hydro- 
chloric and Py- 
roligenous Acids 

Anilin Colors and 
Crude Brandy 



Rice Flour. 



Flour, Starches 

Arrow Root 

Spent Bark 

Ship Bread 

Foreign Leaves, spent Tea, 
Plumbago, Gum, Indigo, 
Prussian Blue, China Clay, 
Soapstone, Gjiwum 



Sand, dirt 
Tainted 



Old and wormy 
Sand 

Burnt Sugar 



Sand and dirt, in- 
sects dead and 
alive 



Ferruginous Earth 



Water. 



Sulphate of Potaa- 
stum 



(h) FOODS CONTAINING MICRO-ORGANISMS.— During the past decade, 
careful investigation and research have demonstrated, beyond doubt, the 
fact that certain foods containing micro-organisms are the means of con- 
veying the germs of various infectious diseases. 

Milk. — Milk is an admirable -culture medium for a great variety of 
germs and bacilli, like those of typhoid fever and tuberculoeis. These 
thrive particularly well in milk, due to its abundant and varied protein 
material which furnishes substances out of uln.'h develop powrfn] t..xins 



688 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

for absorption. The principal diseases whose germs are capable of being 
transmitted through milk are tuberculosis, typhoid fever, cholera, diph- 
theria and scarlet fever. Milk containing these germs is usually pro- 
duced by careless dairy men. {See section on Milk, Volume I, Chapter 
XII, for details as to the proper care of milk production.) 

Tuberculous milk infection has been a theme which has received much 
attention of late years. The matter is of special importance in regard to 
the danger of conveying tuberculosis to infants through raw milk. That 
this has happened is beyond question. Milk infected with tubercle bacilli, 
when fed to animals, has been shown to produce primary intestinal and 
mesenteric tuberculosis, and therefore its danger to infants is apparent. 
Tubercle bacilli may find their way into the milk from the tuberculous 
gland or udder. It should be borne in mind, however, that milk from 
a tuberculous cow, even if it does not cause disease directly, is apt to be 
poor in quality and undesirable for food. As a means of safeguarding 
the public, dairy herds are regularly inspected for tuberculosis. When 
cows are found to be tuberculous they are ordered to be slaughtered. 
Notwithstanding these precautions, milk is still produced from tubercu- 
lous cows, and among infants who live largely upon raw milk, and 
whose gastric digestion is less vigorous than that of adults, mesenteric 
tuberculosis is relatively more common. 

Tuberculous meat usually proves less virulent than raw milk, for the 
reason that it is subjected to. thorough heat in cooking. This does not 
kill all the bacilli, however, so that tuberculous meat should not under 
any circumstances be consumed for food. This fact is now generally 
appreciated by the public. Meat inspection by federal officers and abat- 
toirs is now much better regulated by law and supervised by local health 
boards than formerly. As a safeguard, all meat offered for sale should 
be slaughtered in public abattoirs under competent governmental inspec- 
tion. Not only should the animals be examined before killing, but the 
carcass should be carefully inspected after slaughtering. 

We have stated elsewhere that meat from animals dead of various 
acute diseases, although it does not form a wholesome food, is sometimes 
eaten, and, if well cooked, may be harmless. No part of any animal 
suffering from the foot-and-mouth disease, rabies, glanders, actinomycosis, 
anthrax, septicemia, swine plague, sheep or cow pox, pneumonia, trich- 
iniasis or tuberculosis should ever be consumed as food by human beings. 

Diarrheal diseases are commonest in the warm months. Ninety-seven 
per cent of the cases that occur in children are in bottle-fed babies. 
Where milk is pure and where proper care has been observed in trans- 



DISEASK8 CALSKI) \\\ ' ""' .^.,v< Qgg 

mission from the dairy to tlio con^umor, Ihi; ilj^aM: m r.irti. Tli«e dU- 
eases may ho produced by toxins i^LMieratcd in tUe milk by the bH'-*"*-:" 
or by the bacteria themselves introduced into the intctitinnl tract. 

Diphtheria hariUi may find their way into milk frt)m the milker, who 
may have the disease in a mild form, or from mil»o<|uent contamination. 
A number of epidemics have l)ecn tracwl to this oripn of infected milk. 

Scarlet fever epidemics have occurred as a result of milk infection ; 
they have usually been traced to a case of the disease in a milknr^H family. 
Kober has tabulated 100 scarlet fever epidemics of milk, truci'ahlc chietiy 
to persons employed at the dairy, or from infecteci iMtles or milk catiB 
used in families where the disease prevailed or to employees handling 
milk while suffering from the disease. 

Typhoid fever has been traced to infected milk supply, and too much 
stress cannot be laid on the importance of investigating dairy farms as 
a source of typhoid fever epidemics. Kol)er tabulated li»5 epidemics of 
this disease due to milk infected with the typhoid bacilli. 

Infection by Oysters. — Typhoid fever epidemics have been traced 
to infected oysters, usually grown very near tlie outlet of a sewer. In 
N^ew Haven, some years ago, thirty students were infected with typhoid 
fever from eating raw oysters supplied by a dealer who made a practice 
of placing fresh oysters in the river for a few days after receiving them. 
The report of this epidemic was made by Conn(l7), who found that all 
the oysters eaten at this college society supper had come from one dealer 
who had obtained all of them from one oyster grower. At three of these 
suppers raw oysters were served, and all of the thirty victims who had 
partaken of the oysters in this condition were attacked by the disease. 
The oyster grower admitted that his daughter had been ill of typhoid 
fever and it had been his habit to place the oysters temporarily in the 
river at a point near the place where a short drain from his house dis- 
charged into the stream. The water became infected by the flow of the 
drain leading from his house. In time the surrounding water became 
infected by the flow, and when the oysters were taken up the shell out- 
side and inside contained the germs of typhoid. The raw oysters used 
at the students' dinners contained the typhoid poi8<in. It has been gen- 
erally believed that typhoid bacilli do not develop in salt water, but cir- 
cumstantial evidence points strongly to their having existed in the brackish 
water above described. 

Infection by Flies. — ^Food is frequently infected through the agency 
of the common house fly. During the past decade much has been written 
on this subject. During the Spanish- American War many thousandB of 



690 TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF EDIBLE FOODS 

men succumbed to typhoid fever transmitted through the agency of the 
house fly, coming direct from the latrines to the kitchens with their 
bodies laden with typhoid bacilli. These insects, from their great num- 
bers and incessant activity, are admirably adapted to convey infection. 
Their numerous feet and capacious intestines, their frequent evacuations 
and disgusting habits of alighting and feeding upon all matter of refuse, 
make them an incessant pest. Of late years the sanitary officers of the 
United States Army have so perfected sanitary regulations that the pres- 
ence of these pests is almost unknown. 

(i) WHOLESOME FOOD AGAINST WHICH PERSONAL IDIOSYNCRASY 
EXISTS.— Idiosyncrasies are found to exist with some persons in regard 
to special articles of food which cannot be readily explained. As a rule, 
if marked, they extend throughout life, but sometimes persons pass 
through periods when a particular article of food disagrees with them 
which they had previously been able to eat with impunity. Some indi- 
viduals will complain that milk makes them bilious, while others cannot 
eat eggs, while they can take milk. Again, there are persons who believe 
they cannot take either. Some individuals can eat the white and not 
the yolk of eggs ; again, there are other people who cannot partake of fat 
in any form. There are persons who acquire a headache whenever they 
eat butcher's meat in excess. A common idiosyncrasy of diet is met with 
in persons who cannot partake of shellfish of any kind. An English 
authority reports the case of a lady patient who throughout her life was 
unable to drink coffee, of which she was very fond, without bringing on 
an attack of diarrhea. Such idiosyncrasies are sometimes hereditary and 
may affect several members of the same family. They are entirely inde- 
pendent of ordinary dyspeptic conditions and may occur in persons who 
otherwise are able to digest any and all kinds of foods. 

(j) ALCOHOL AS A FOOD AND A POISON.— This subject has been most 
carefully considered in Volume I, Chapter XVI, Beverages and Stimu- 
lants, page 519, to which the reader is referred. 

REFEEEXCES 

1. Ermenglin. Am. Drug. & Pharm. Record. 

2. Old Testament: Deuteronomy xiv, 21. 

3. Von Faber, Vaughan and ]^ovy. Cellular Toxins. 

4. MoHR and Rosen au. Origin of a Recent Outbreak of Foot and 

Mouth Disease, U. S. Dept. Agric, 1909, Bur. Animal Industry, 
Cir. 147. 



^ 



DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD POISONS 601 

5. E. M. PuRDUK. ( Profc«8or of Tropical Di«eaflC8, Eclectic Medical 
University, Kansas City, Mo.) Clin. Med., March, 1915. 

(3. FiscHKK. Physiology' of Alimentation, VM)7. 

7. AitDKKiiALDKN. Text-lxMik PliyHiolcigical CheniiHtry. 

8. Mendki« Theory of Protein Metalxilisni, Am. .1. Physiol., 1906. 

9. OsHOKNK. The Vejjetahle Proteins, Um), 

10. Weekly lieport Tnitetl States Pnhlic Health Rer\'irc, Nov. 12, 1015. 

11. Thompson, W. H. Treatment on Clinieal Mc<licinc. 

12. Stassano, H. La Qninzaine Thera|)euti(|ne. 

13. U. S. l)(^t. Agric, Burean of Chemistry, Hnll. ir»l. 

14. Wiley. Kesults of Borax Exjwriments, U. S. Dept of Agric, Bur. 

of Chem., Circular No. 15. 

15. Harrin(;ton. Am. J. Med. Sc., Sept., 1004. 

16. SiiARPLEss. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Div. of Chcni., Bull. 25. 

17. Conn. Med. Eec., New York. 



I 



niAPTER XIX 

ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS—FUEL VALUE PER 
POUND AND PER PORTION 

Meaning of "Protein." 

Sources and Metliods of Computing' Frnxi Analytis: Hintorical Aspect 

Composition of Food Materials: Pn.ttiiiH; FaU; Carbohydratea ; Aah or 
Mineral Matter; Fuel Matter— Calories |H?r Pound and per Por- 
tion ; Water. 

Cuts of Meat: Beef; Lamb; Pork; Veal, etc 

AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOOD 

MATERIALS 

Meaning of Protein — Nitrogenous matter is usually designated "pro- 
tein." ^L^oniinally the total nitrogenoius substance of animal and vege- 
table food materials, exclusive of the so-called nitrogenous fats, is included 
in this term. Actually it is employed, in common usage, to designate the 
product of the total nitrogen in a substance by an empirical factor 
generally expressed as 6.25. The conmion practice of European and 
American chemists and physiologists is to multiply the percentage of 
nitrogen by 6.25 and take the product as representing the total nitrogenous 
substance. 

For many food materials, animal and vegetable, this factor, 6.25, 
would be nearly correct for proteins, which contain on tlie average not 
far from 16 per cent of nitrogen, although tiie nitrogen content of the 
individual protein is quite varied. The variations in the nitrogen of non- 
proteins are wider, and they contain on an average more than 16 per 
cent of nitrogen. It is evident, therefore, that the computation of the 
total nitrogenous substance in this way is by no means correct. Through- 
out most of the tables for meats and other animal foods the protein is 
calculated by subtracting the other ingredients, including water and 
mineral matter, from 100 per cent. The difference in the two estimates 
of '^protein" is usually less than 1 p<»r cent of the total meat, and the 
N X 6.25 estimate is usually, but not always, in excess of the estimate 

G93 



694 A:^^ALYSIS of AMERICAN FOODS 

by difference. While this latter method of calculation is by no means 
absolutely correct, it is nevertheless oftentimes more nearly so than the 
determination by use of the usual formula, N x 6.25. 

Sources and Methods of Computing Food Analysis Tables. — In the com- 
pilation of these tables only edible portions are retained, unless otherwise 
stated, especially in animal foods. By edible foodstuff is meant the 
material as ordinarily prepared for cooking, after removal of bones, skin, 
entrails, peelings, cores, pods, rinds, etc. Thus the edible foodstuff still 
contains material ordinarily removed by dainty, finicky or fastidious 
diners, as fat, gristle, etc., of meats, fine skins and other parts of vege- 
table foods, the under crust of pie, and other materials in foods. This 
unused material is a physiological waste. 

The material for this chapter has been taken largely from the 
revised work of Atwater and Bryant (1), which represents by far the 
best compilation extant of analyses of American foods down to 1906. 
In abstracting these tables, the minimum, maximum and averages only 
of edible foods are given, which suffice for the purpose of this work. 
For the complete tables the reader is referred to the original report (2). 

In the preparation of these tables much care has been exercised to 
keep the protein, fat and carbohydrate percentages corrected to show true 
protein and digestible carbohydrate. For meats the !N x 6.25 method of 
calculation has been followed. Many of the computations as to the pro- 
tein content of vegetables are slightly excessive, since no actual estimate 
of protein proper was made. This is of no practical importance, how- 
ever, because if the protein content is large, as in the legumes, the non- 
protein nitrogenous substances are comparatively insignificant; while, if 
the total nitrogenous constituents are small, the error for any ordinary 
use of the food is slight in the aggregate. 

In amplifying the fuel value of the foods great care has been exer- 
cised by the author to estimate the caloric value per hundred grams of 
the various foods. Realizing the fallacy of exactitude in determining 
positive fuel values, some license has been taken to state fractions of a 
per cent in the nearest per cent. It will be realized, therefore, that in 
using these tables to ascertain the organic nutrients of foodstuffs ingested, 
only approximate results can be hoped for, hence it will serve every 
purpose to use average figures and to ignore fractions of a per cent or 
even the nearest aliquot fraction of the whole. 

HISTORICAL ASPECT.-The earliest quantitative analyses of food 
materials with which we have come in contact are those of potatoes, 
reported by George Pearson in England in 1795(3). Einhoff(4:), in 



KXPLANATION OF TKKMS 695 

1805, made analyses of potatoes and rye. lie attempted to separate the 

albinnin in tho latter and in the former, lie aitu) dctennined several of 
tlio constituonts of the ash. Other workern in thin field of renearch, 
chiefly in the period from 1840 to 18«r), have re|M»rte<l their findingn. 
Nearly all our definite knowledge of the chemical comixmition of food 
materials and their nutritive value, however, han accumulated wilhin 
comparatively the past few years. The great advance in the analytical 
chemistry of f(M)dstufTs was nuide in 1804, when Ilenneberg and his 
associates elaborated the so-ralled "Weende metluKl" for pmximate anal- 
ysis. This method with slight variatiiuis is used to-day where\'er f<Kid 
analyses are made. **The metluxls followed in different conntri(*s agreo 
so closely that for the last twenty years it has been possible to accept 
analyses by chemists in different parts of the world and compare them 
"vvith one another without hesitation" (Atwater an<l Bryant). 

The first analyses by these methods in the United States of which 
record has been found were a series of analyses of com in 1869(5). 
With thanks to the research workers in the Experiment Stations of the 
United States Department of Agriculture, who have perhaps led the 
world in scientific work of this character, we now have a definite knowl- 
edge of the chemical composition of foodstuffs, their fuel value, and 
nutritive properties. 

Explanation of Terms (6). — The terms used in reporting analyses of 
foods and feeding stuffs need some explanation. Some of these terms 
have a technical meaning which is well recognized and understood by 
scientists, although the dictionaries and similar books of reference have 
not yet included these terms in their definitions. In other cases the same 
word has been used by scientists in different ways. The more usual 
terms are defined and explained below in the sense in which they are 
employed in this bulletin and other publications of this office: 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

Ordinary food materials, such as meat, fish, egrgs, potatoes, wheat, etc, con- 
sist of: 

Refuse.— As the bones of meat and fish, shells of shellfish, skin of potatoes, 
bran of wheat, etc. 

Edible Portion.— As the flesh of meat and fish, the white and yolk of eggs, 
•wheat flour, etc. This edible portion consists of water (usully incorporated in the 
tissue and not visible as such), and nutritive ingretlients or nutrients. 

The principal kinds of nutritive ingredients are protein, fats, earbohydnites, 
and ash or mineral matters. 

The water and refuse of various foods and the salt of salted mest and fish are 



696 ANALYSIS OF AMERICAI^ FOODS 

called nonnutrients. In comparing the values of different food materials for 
nourishment they are left out of account. 

Protein. — This term is used to include nominally the total nitrogenous sub- 
stance of animal and vegetable food materials, exclusive of the so-called nitrogen- 
ous fats. Actually it is employed, in common usage, to designate the product of 
the total nitrogen by an empirical factor, generally 6.25. 

This total nitrogenous substance consists of a great variety of chemical com- 
pounds, conveniently divided into two principal classes, proteids and nonproteids. 

The following is taken from Bulletin 28, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture : 

The term proteid, as here employed, includes the simple proteids, e.g., (a) 
albuminoids, globulins, and their derivatives, such as acid and alkali albumins, 
coagulated proteids, proteoses, and peptones; (b) the so-called combined or com- 
pound proteids; and (c) the so-called gelatinoids (sometimes called "glutinoids" ) 
which are characteristic of animal connective tissue. 

The term albuminoids has long been used bj^ European and American chem- 
ists and physiologists as a collective designation for the substances of the first 
two groups though many apply it to all three of these groups. Of late a num- 
ber of investigators and writers have employed it as a special designation for com- 
pounds of the third class. 

The term nonproteid is here used synonymously with nonalbuminoid, and in- 
cludes nitrogenous animal and vegetable compounds of simpler constitution than 
the proteids. The most important animal compounds of this class are the so- 
called "nitrogenous extractives" of muscular and connective tissue, such as crea- 
tin, creatinin, xanthin, hypoxanthin, and allied cleavage products of the proteids, 
To some of these the term "meat bases" has been applied. The latter, with cer- 
tain mineral salts (potassium phosphates, etc.), are the most important constitu- 
ents of beef tea and many commercial "meat extracts." 

The nonproteid nitrogenous compounds in vegetable foods consist of amids and 
amido-acids, of which asparagin and aspartic acid are familiar examples. 

The ideal method of analysis of food materials would involve quantitative de- 
terminations of the amounts of each of the several kinds or groups of nitrogen- 
ous compounds. This, however, is seldom attempted. The common practice is 
to multiply the percentage of nitrogen by the factor 6.25 and take the product 
as representing the total nitrogenous substance. For many materials, animal and 
vegetable, this factor would be nearly correct for the proteids which contain, on 
the average, not far from 16 per cent of nitrogen, although the nitrogen content 
of the individual proteids is quite varied. The variations in the nitrogen of the 
nonproteids are wider, and they contain, on the average, more than 16 per cent of 
nitrogen. It is evident, therefore, that the computation of the total nitrogenous 
substance in this way is by no means correct. In the flesh of meats and fish, 
which contain very little of carbohydrates, the nitrogenous substance is frequently 
estimated by difference, i. e., by subtracting the ether extract and ash from the 
total water-free substance. While this method is not always correct, it is often- 
times more nearly so than the determination by use of the usual factor. 



EXPLANATION OF TKKMS 697 

The distinction between pnitein and proteidji is very tharp. Th« Utter tms 
definite clu'iniral compoundH, wiiile the (ornier ih nn entindy arliitniry term naed 
to dt'si^'imtc a j^nmp which in coiiinumly aiwume<l tf» inrhuir all of tin- nitroffenouii 
matter of the foixl exeej»t the nitrojji'iuum fata. 

In the tables herewith the common unage ia fidiowiHl, «•% whmh itn- pniiiin m 
given ns estimated "by factor," i. e., total nitrogen multiplicHl b/ CiS. In the 
analyses of meats and fish, however, tlu- flgures for protein "by diflrereoee" ara 
also given. Where the protei<l and n<»nproteid nitn>KenoUM matter baa been 
estimated in a food material, the proportions arc indicated in a footnoti-. 

Fats. — Under fats is included the total ether extract. Familiar cxamplca of 
fut are fat of meat, fat of nulk (butter), oil of com, olive oil, etc. The infC^dic^U 
of the "etiier extract" of animal and vr<;ctable fiMwIs and fi'iHling atufTa, which it 
is customary to group roughly as fats, include with the true fata various other 
substances, as fatty acids, lecithins (nitrogenous fats), and cblorophylbi. 

Carbohydrates. — Carbohydrates are usually determined by diflferenee. They 
include sugars, starches, cellulose, gums, woody fiber, etc. In many iimtinifl 
separate determinations of one or nion« of these groups have been made. The 
determinations of "liber" in vegetable foods, i. e., sulmtances allied to earbohy- 
drates but insoluble in dilute acid and alkali, and somewhat similar to woody 
fiber, are given in a separate column. The figures in parenthi«ses in the crude 
fiber column show the number of analyses in which the filn'r was determined. The 
figures for "total carbohydrates" include the fiber, as well as sogars, starefaes, 
etc. Where the sugars or starches have been determined separately footnotes 
are added giving the average results. 

Ash or Mineral Waters. — Under tliis head are included phosphates, sulphates, 
chlorids, and other salts of potassium, sodium, magnesium, and other metallic ele- 
ments. Where analyses of the mineral matters have been found they are added 
in the form of footnotes. These results usually give the percentage composition 
of the ash as produced by incineration rather than the proportions in which the 
different mineral ingredients occur in the food material. 

Fuel Value. — By fuel value is meant the number of calories of heat equivalent 
to the energy which it is assumed the lK)dy would be able to obtain from one 
pound of a given food material, provided the nutrients of the latter were com- 
pletely digested. The fuel values of the different food materials are calculated 
by use of the factors of Rubner, which allow 4.1 calories for a gram of pro- 
tein, the same for a gram of carbohydrates, and 9.3 calories i>er gram of fats. 
These amounts correspond to 18.6 calories of energy for each hundredth of a 
pound of protein and of carbohydrates, and 42.2 calories for each hundredth of a 
pound of fat in the given food material. In the following table the fuel valna 
per pound ^ has been calculated by the use of these factors. In these ealeuUtions 
the values of protein by factor have been used in all cases with the ezeeption 
of the salt cod (p. 723) and hens* eggs (p. 725) in which the value of protein by 
difference was used. 



1 The author has amplified these calculations of fuel value by extending the raloriet 
per portion for each foodstuff enumeratcnl. which it is hoped will make the tables mora 
valuable and convenient for the student of sitology. 



698 



ANALYSIS OF AMEEICAN FOODS 
CUTS OF MEAT 



The methods of cutting sides of beef, veal, mutton, and pork into parts, 
and the terms used for the different "cuts," as these parts are commonly called, 



1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Ribs. 

4. Shoulder clod. 

5. Fore shank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross ribs. 

8. Plate. 

9. Navel. 

10. Loin. 

11. Flank. 

12. Rump. 

13. Round. 

14. Second cut round. 
16. Hind shank. 



hh^ 




Fig. 46.— Diagrams of Cuts of Beef. (Farmers' Bull. No. 34, U. S. Dept. Agric. 



vary in different localities. The analyses here reported apply to cuts as indicated 
by the following diagrams. These show the positions of the different cuts, both 



EXPLANATION OF TERMS 699 

in the live animal and in the dressed eareaas as found in ttic markets. The lines of 
division iK'twoen the dilTerent cuU will vary slightly, aeoording to the usage of 
the local market, even where the general methinl of rutting is aa hen iodieatcd. 
Tlic names of the same euts likcwiw. vary in ilifTerfnt parts of the eotintry. 

The Cuts of Beef.— The pruTal mothod <if rutting up a Hide of liccf i« illus- 
trated in Fij?. 4(), whieh shows the relative position of the cut* in the animal and 
in a dressed side. The neek piece is fre<|uently cut so as to include morv of the 
chuck than is represented hy the diagrams. The slioulder clod iti usually cut with- 
out hone, while the shoulder (not indicated in diagram) would include more or 
less of the slioulder hlade and of the upper end of the fore shank. Shoulder 
steak is cut from the chuck. In many localities the plate is made to include all 
the parts of the fore quarter designated on the diagrama as brisket, cross-ribs, pUte 
and navel, and different portions of the plate, as thus cut, are s(M>kcn of aa the 
"brisket end of plate" and "navel end of plate." This part of the animal is 




1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Shoulder. 

4. Fore shank. 

5. Breast 



6. RIb«. 

7. Loin. 

8. Flank. 

9. Leg. 

10. Hind shank. 




Fig. 47. — Diagrams of Cuts of Veai* (Farmers* Bull. No. 34, U. S. Dept. Agrie.) 



largely used for coming. The ribs are frequently divided into first, seeond, and 
third cuts, the last lies nearest the chuck and is slightly less desirable than the 
first and second. The chuck is sometimes subdivided in a similar manner, the 
third cut of the chuck being nearest the neck. The names applied to different 
portions of the loin vary considerably in different localities. The part nearest the 
ribs is frequently called "small end of loin" or "short steak." The other end of the 
loin is called *Tiip sirloin" or "sirloin." Between the short steak and the sirloin 
is a portion generally called the "tenderloin," for the reason that the real tenderloin, 
the very tender strip of meat lying inside the loin, is found most fully developed 
in this cut. Porterhouse steak is a term most fre<|uently applied to either the 
short steak or the tenderloin. It is not unconmion to tind the flank cut so as to 
46 



700 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN^ FOODS 



include more of the loin than is indicated in the figures, in which ease the 
upper portion is called "flank steak." The larger part of the flank is frequently 
corned, as is also the case with the rump. In some markets the rump is cut so as 
to include a portion of the loin, which is then sold as "rump steak." The portion 
of the round on the inside of the leg is more tender than that on the outside, and 
is preferred to the latter. As the leg lies upon the butcher's table this inside of 
the round is usually on the upper, or top side, and is therefore called "top round." 
Occasionally the plate is called the "rattle." 

The Cuts of Veal. — The method of cutting up a side of veal differs consider- 
ably from that employed with beef. This is illustrated by Fig. 47, which shows 
the relative position of the cuts in the animal and in a dressed side. The chuck 
is much smaller in proportion, and frequently no distinction is made between the 
chuck and the neck. The chuck is often cut so as to include a portion here desig- 




RP.K 



1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Shoulder. 

4. Flank. 

5. Loin. 

6. Leg. 



Fig. 48. — Diagrams of Cuts of Lamb and Mutton. (Farmers' Bull. No. 34, U. S. 

Dept. Agric.) 




nated as shoulder, following more nearly the method adopted for subdividing 
beef. The shoulder of veal as here indicated includes, besides the portion cor- 
responding to the shoulder in beef, the larger part of what is classed as 
chuck in the adult animal. The under part of the fore quarter, corresponding 
to the plate in the beef, is often designated as breast of veal. The part of the 
veal corresponding to the rump of beef is here included with the loin, but is 
often cut to form part of the leg. In many localities the fore and hind shanks 
of veal are called the "knuckles." 



EXPLANATION OF TERMS 



701 



The Cuts of Lamb and Mutton.— Fi^. 48 sbowB the relative position of tlM 
cuts in a dressiHl side of mutton or lainl» nnd in a live animal. The cuta in a tide 
of lanih ntui mutton nuinluT but six, tlirin* in each quarter. The ehnek inrludet 
the rihs as far as tlu* on<i of the Hhoulilcr blade, beyond which comet the loin. Tha 
flank is made to inchuU' all the under side of the nninml. Some btttebeHy liowever» 
make a Iar<?er number of cuta in the fore quarter, including a portion of the 
cuts marked "loin" and "chuck'* in Fi^j. 48, to make a cut deatgnaled aa **rib,** 
and a portion of the "tlank" and "shouMcr" to make a cut deaifcnatcd an "briaket." 
The ienn "cliops*' is ordinarily used to di^Mignate portiona of cither the loin, riba, 
chuck or shoulder, which are either cut «>r "chopped" by the butcher into pieeet 
suitable for frvinpr or broilinj?. The cbink and rilw arc sometimes called the "rack." 

The Cuts of Pork. — The method «»f cutting? up a aide of pork diflTcni from 
that employed with other meats. A large portion of the carcaaa of a dreMed pig 





7 3\ a 


e 


.- 


\ 


■r ^ 



r^. 




M/A*|// 




1. 


Head. 


2. Shoulder. 


8. 


Back. 


4. 


Middle cut. 


6. 


Belly. 


6. 


Ham. 


7. 


Ribs. 


8. 


Loin. 



6 






iU 




Fig. 49.— Diagbams of Cuts of Pobk. (Farmers* Bull. No. 34, U. 8. Dept Agric) 

consists of almost clear fat. This furnishes the cuts which are uaed for "aalt 
pork" and bacon. Fig. 49 illustrates a common method of cutting up pork, showing 
the relative position of the cuts in the animal and in the dressed side. The cut 
designated as "back cut" is almost clear fat and is used for salting and pickling. 
The "middle cut" is the portion quite generally used for bacon and for "lean 
ends" of salt pork. The belly is salted or pickled or may be made into aaosagot. 
Beneath the "back cut" are the ribs and loin, from which are obtained "apare- 
ribs," "chops," and roasting pieces, here designated by dotted lines. The hams 
and' shoulders are more frequently curtMl, but are also sold fresh aa pork "stedj." 
The tenderloin proper is a comparatively lean and ver>- small stnp of meat lying 



702 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



under the bones of the loin and usually weighing a fraction of a pound. Some 
fat is usually trimmed off from the hams and shoulders which is called "ham 
and shoulder fat" and is often used for sausages, etc. What is called "leaf lard," 
at least in some localities, comes from the inside of the back. It is the kidney 
fat. 

As stated above, cuts of meats, as shown in the diagrams herewith, 
correspond to those of which analyses are reported in the tables given in 
this chapter, but do not attempt to show the different methods of cutting 
followed in markets in different parts of the United States. The illus- 
trations and tables which follow are taken from Bulletin No. 28 (Revised 
Edition), U. S. Department of Agriculture, ''The Chemical Composition 
of American Food Materials," by W. O. Atwater, Ph.D., and H. P. 
Bryant, M.S. 



AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOOD 

MATERIALS ^ 

ACCORDING TO ATWATER'S AND BRYANT'S CAREFUL WORK 

ON FOOD ANALYSIS, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT 

OF AGRICULTURE, BULLETIN No. 28 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD 

Beef, fresh 
Brisket, Medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chuck, including shoulder, 
lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chuck, including shoulder, 
medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



47.4 
59.6 
54.6 



71.0 
71.7 
71.3 



67.1 
69.5 
68.3 



Per cent 
Protein 



13.7 
17.1 
15.8 



19.8 
20.6 
20.2 



19.1 
20.2 
19.6 



Per cent 
Fat 



22.5 
37.2 

28.5 



7.7 
8.7 
8.2 



10.1 
14.0 
11.9 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
Ash 



.9 
1.0 
1.0 



.9 

1.0 

.9 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1,265 
1,825 
1,495 



710 
735 
720 



800 
945 

865 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



281 
405 
330 



157 
163 
160 



177 
210 
192 



1 Unless otherwise stated, the values in each case are for the edible portion only. 



CllEAllCAL COMPOSITION (.1 AMKKK A.\ FOODS 703 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 
Beef, fresh 
Chuck, including shoulder, 
fat: 

Minimum 

Maxinunn 

Average 

Chuck, rib, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chuck, rib, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chuck, rib, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flank, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flank, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, very fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, boneless strip, as 
purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, sirloin butt, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



59.9 
64.2 
02.3 

69.7 
73.4 
7L3 

56.9 
67.0 
62.7 

5L3 
52.8 
52.0 

66.0 
70.8 
54.2 

53.5 
54.9 
54.2 

64.6 
74.7 
67.0 

52.1 
56.9 
54.7 

46.8 
5L3 
49.7 



50.9 
77.2 
66.3 



5L6 
72.1 
62.5 



Per rent 
Protein 



17.6 
19.5 
18.5 

14.0 
20.5 
19.5 

17.3 
19.5 
18.5 

16.5 
16.5 
16.5 

20.4 
21.4 
17.1 

16.1 
17.8 
17.1 

13.4 
24.2 
19.7 

16.0 
18.7 
17.5 

17.2 
18.9 
17.8 



16.9 
25.0 
17.8 



17.4 
22.0 
19.7 



[*ercent 
Fat 



17.1 
2L1 

18.8 

5.8 

12.2 

8.3 

13.9 
25.3 
18.0 

30.3 
32.0 
31.1 

7.8 
13.7 
28.4 

27.2 
30.3 

28.4 

11.4 
23.1 
19.3 

25.1 
29.6 
27.6 

31.5 
33.8 
32.3 



4.0 
32.4 
16.7 



6.4 
23.5 
17.7 



I'er cent 
('arlK>- 
hydrates 



Per cent CdorictCalorim 



Aah 



.8 

LO 

.9 

A 
1.1 
1.0 

.9 
1.1 
1.0 

.7 
.8 
.8 

.9 
1.0 

.8 

.8 
.8 
.8 

.7 
1.1 
1.0 

.8 

1.0 

.9 

.8 
.9 
.9 



.8 



FvwL Vauti 



Pound 



1,080 
1.215 
1,135 

025 
776 
715 

980 
1,300 
1,105 

1,585 
1,055 
1,620 

710 

960 

1,515 

1,470 
1,580 
1,515 

735 

1,000 

900 

1,380 
1,575 
1,490 

1.050 
1,780 
1.605 



515 
1,680 
1,035 



665 
1,630 
1.115 



per 100 
Granif 



240 
270 
252 

138 
172 
158 

266 
308 
2S7 

352 
367 
360 

157 
213 
180 

326 
351 
336 

163 
222 
200 

306 
350 
331 

366 
395 
376 



114 
373 
230 



147 
362 
247 



704 



a:n^alysis of america:n" foods 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 
Beef, fresh 
Loin, porterhouse steak: 

PiS purchased 

Loin, sirloin steak: 

As purchased 

Neck, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Neck, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Plate, lean: 

Minimum. . , 

Maximum 

Average 

Plate, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ribs, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ribs, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rib rolls, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Round, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Round, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Round, very fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Round, second cut: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



52.4 

54.0 

69.3 
71.0 
70.1 

60.5 
67.8 
63.4 

60.8 
74.5 
65.9 

48.7 
59.9 
54.4 

66.0 
69.5 
67.9 

47.4 
51.7 
48.5 

67.3 
70.5 
69.0 

65.8 
73.6 
70.0 

57.8 
64.5 
60.4 

54.9 
56.8 
55.9 

69.5 
70.0 
69.8 



Per cent 
Protein 



19.1 

16.5 

21.3 
21.4 
21.4 

18.9 
22.0 
20.1 



8.9 
19.1 
15.6 


14.8 
18.0 
16.5 


16.5 
20.9 
19.6 


12.0 
16.8 
15.0 


19.3 
20.8 
20.2 


18.8 
24.1 
21.3 


18.3 
21.4 
19.5 


17.2 
19.1 

18.2 


20.1 
20.7 
20.4 



Per cent 
Fat 



17.9 
16.1 

8.0 

8.7 
8.4 

11.5 
19.8 
16.5 

16.5 
20.8 
18.8 

23.2 
35.6 
29.1 

9.8 
14.0 
12.0 

33.9 
36.8 
35.6 

8.4 
13.3 
10.5 

5.1 

10.0 

7.9 

16.7 
22.3 

19.5 

24.7 
27.7 
26.2 

8.6 
8.6 
8.6 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1.0 
1.1 
1.0 

.8 

1.1 

.9 

.4 
.9 

.7 

.7 
.9 



1.1 
1.0 



1.0 
1.0 

.3 
1.3 

1.1 

.9 
1.0 
1.0 

.7 
.9 



1.0 
1.3 
1.1 



1,110 

985 

735 
765 
750 

870 
1,195 
1,070 

860 
1,230 
1,085 

1,280 
1,780 
1,535 

790 
955 

870 

1,710 
1,845 
1,780 

740 
920 
820 

565 
835 
730 

1,050 
1,305 
1,185 

1,400 
1,490 
1,445 

735 
745 
740 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



246 

218 

163 
170 
166 

193 
265 
237 

191 
273 
241 

282 
395 
341 

175 

212 
193 

380 
410 
395 

164 
204 

182 

125 
185 
162 

233 
290 
263 

311 
331 
321 

163 
121 
120 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS 705 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD-Con. 
Beef, fresh 
Rump, lean: 

Aliniimim 

Maximum 

Average 

Rump, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rump, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shank, fore, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shank, fore, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shank, hind, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum ......... 

Average 

Shank, hind, medium fat 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shoulder and clod, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shoulder and clod, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Forequarter, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hindquarter, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hindquarter, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



62.1 
68.3 
65.7 

52.4 
60.3 
56.7 

43.1 
49.9 
47.1 

69.9 
73.2 
71.5 

65.5 
70.0 
67.9 

71.3 
73.6 
72.5 

65.3 
69.5 
67.8 

71.4 
74.5 
73.1 

56.2 
62.1 
60.4 

67.5 
71.1 
68.6 

64.6 
67.5 
66.3 

55.7 
63.9 
59.8 



Percent I Nr cent 
Protein Fat 



17.5 
22.7 
20.9 

16.0 
19.5 
17.4 

14.7 
22.7 
16.8 

20.9 
24.4 
22.0 

19.9 
21.0 
20.4 

20.8 
23.1 
21.9 

19.0 
21.8 
20.9 

19.2 

22.1 
20.4 

18.1 
21.9 
19.5 

16.5 
20.0 
18.9 

19.3 
20.6 
20.0 

17.2 
19.5 
18.3 



10.0 
17.7 
13.7 

20.3 

29.9 
25.5 

33.3 

39.4 
35.7 

5.3 
7.9 
6.1 

9.9 
14.2 
11.6 

4.3 
7.3 
5.4 

9.6 
15.4 
11.5 

4.7 
6.7 
5.4 

18.5 
21.6 
19.8 

11.4 
12.7 
12.2 

12.2 
14.9 
13.4 

16.8 
26.6 
21.6 



Per rent 
CarlK>- 
hydrmtes 



Pen 

Anh 



ccntCAlorieiCftloriai 



.Q 
1.1 
1.0 

.8 

1.0 

.9 

.7 

1.2 

.8 

.9 
1.1 
1.0 

.9 

1.0 

.9 

.9 
1.2 
1.0 

.8 

1.0 

.9 

1.0 
1.1 
1.1 

.9 
1.2 
1.0 

.7 
.9 

.8 

1.0 
1.0 
1.0 

.8 

1.0 

.9 



Fuel Vaujb 



ft&t 
Pound 



840 

1,170 

965 

1,195 
1,575 
1,400 

1,710 
1,960 
1,820 

615 
735 
665 

800 
970 
870 

590 
715 
635 

800 

1,005 

875 

555 
680 
605 

1,120 
1,320 
1,200 

815 
910 
865 

890 
990 
935 

1,070 
1,430 
1.250 



per too 
GnuM 



186 
260 
214 

265 
350 
311 

380 
430 
404 

136 
163 
147 

177 
215 



131 
158 
141 

177 
223 
193 

123 
151 
134 

243 
293 
266 

181 
202 
192 

197 
220 
207 

237 
317 
277 



706 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con 

Beef, fresh 

Sides, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sides, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beef Organs 

Brain 

Heart: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Forequarter, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Kidney : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beef Liver: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Lungs, as purchased 

Marrow, as purchased. . . 
Sweetbreads, as purchased 
Suet, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tongue: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beef, Cooked 

Cut not given, boiled, as 

purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Roast, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



66.5 
67.5 
67.2 

54.8 
64.9 
59.7 

80.6 

56.5 

68.7 
62.6 

54.1 
63.6 
60.4 

75.7 

78.7 
76.7 

69.5 
75.0 
71.2 
79.7 
3.3 
70.9 

4.3 
21.9 
13.7 

63.5 

76.2 
70.8 



38.1 

4.5 

41.9 

23.2 

38.7 
59.5 
48.2 



Per cent 
Protein 



17.6 
20.3 
19.3 

17.2 
19.3 
18.1 



15.7 
16.3 
16.0 

17.2 
19.1 
17.9 

15.8 
17.1 
16.6 

18.1 
23.1 
20.4 
16.4 
2.2 
16.8 

1.1 
7.5 

4.7 

17.0 
22.2 
18.9 



26.2 
16.3 
26.4 
21.4 

15.1 
29.0 
22.3 



Per cent 
Fat 



12.3 
14.8 
13.2 

15.7 
27.1 
22.0 

9.3 

14.6 
26.2 
20.4 

17.1 
27.6 
21:4 

2.4 
7.1 

4.8 

3.3 
5.7 
4.5 
3.2 
92.8 
12.1 

70.7 
94.5 

81.8 



18.0 
9.2 



34.9 

27.7 
75.8 
51.7 

19.6 
41.4 
28.6 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
Ash 



1.0 
.9 



1.1 

.9 
1.0 
1.0 



1.0 
.9 

1.1 
1.3 
1.2 

1.3 
2.5 
1.6 
1.0 
1.3 
1.6 

.2 

.7 
.3 

.9 
1.1 
1.0 



.9 

.7 

6.2 

3.5 

.7 
2.7 
1.3 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



905 
950 
915 

1,020 
1,465 
1,265 

555 

920 
1,395 
1,160 



1.075 
1,485 
1,235 



420 
595 
520 

520 
670 
605 
440 
3,955 
825 

3,110 
4,010 
3,540 

445 

1,075 

740 



2,805 
1,660 
3,580 
2,580 

1,210 
2,030 
1,630 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



201 
211 
203 

248 
325 
281 

123 

204 
310 
257 

238 
330 
274 

93 
132 
115 

115 
148 
134 

97 

878 
183 

691 
891 

786 

98 
238 
164 



623 
368 
795 
573 

268 
451 
362 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMEUICAX FOODS 707 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 
Be«/, cooked 

Round steak; fat removwl. 
as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sirloin steak, baked, as 

purchased 

Loin steak, tenderloin, 
broiled: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sandwich meat, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beef, Canned 
Boiled beef, as purchased . 
Cheek, ox, as purchased. . 
Chih - con - came, as pur- 
chased 

Collops, minced, as pur- 
chased 

Corned beef: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Dried beef, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maxhnum 

Average 

Luncheon beef, as pur- 
chased 

Kidneys, stewed, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Palates, ox, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Roast beef, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
WaUT 



53.5 
72.3 
63.0 

63.7 



42.7 
64.5 

54.8 



56.3 
61.2 
58.3 

5L8 
66.1 

75.4 

72.3 

43.2 
58.3 
51.8 

44.2 
45.3 
44.8 

52.9 



70.9 
72.9 
71.9 

69.6 
73.1 
71.4 

55.8 
62.8 
58.9 



Per rrnl 
Proti'in 



19.4 
34.1 
27.6 

2.3.9 



19.8 
26.7 
23.5 



27.1 
28.6 
28.0 

25.5 
22.2 

13.3 

17.8 

20.7 
35.1 
26.3 

38.0 
40.4 
39.2 

27.6 



14.6 
22.1 
18.4 

16.4 
19.3 
17.8 

20.3 

29.8 
25.9 



Per cent 
Fat 



3.3 

16.9 
7.7 

10.2 



ll.S 
35.7 
20.4 



8.0 
13.6 
11.0 

22.5 

8.4 

4.6 

6.8 

11.7 
31.1 
18.7 

6.1 

4.8 
5.4 

15.9 



4.9 
5.4 
5.1 

9.4 
10.6 
10.0 

9.0 
23.6 
14.8 



Pwwmt 
( *arlM>- 
hydrBt4» 



4.0 
1.1 



4.3 
2.1 



PeroQQtCdorkiCdariM 



A<h 



1.1 
3.1 

l.K 

1.4 



1.0 
1.4 
1.2 



2.5 
3.1 

2.8 

1.3 
3.2 

2.7 

19 

2.0 
7.3 
4.0 

9.8 
12.6 
11.2 

4.8 



2.1 
2.8 
2.5 

.4 

2.0 
1.2 

1.2 
1.4 
1.3 



FuKL Value 



Pbttiid 



615 
1,170 

875 



925 
1,875 
1,300 



870 

1,075 

985 

1,425 
765 

515 

640 

1,000 
1,605 
1^280 

d55 
965 
960 

1,185 



580 
620 
600 

750 
755 
755 

935 
1,375 
1,105 



per 100 
Cinuna 



136 
260 
186 

104 



205 
416 
288 



193 

238 
218 

316 
170 

114 

142 

222 
376 
284 

292 
214 
213 

263 



128 
137 
133 

166 
167 
167 

207 
305 
245 



708 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 

Beef, canned 

Rumpsteak, as purchased 
Sweetbreads, as purchased 
Tails, ox, as purchased . . . 
Tongue, ground, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tongue, whole, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tripe, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beef, corned and pickled 

Brisket, as purchased 

Flank: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Plate, as purchased 

Rump: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Extra family beef, as pur- 
chased 

Mess beef, salted: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Corned beef, all analyses 

as purchased 

Spiced beef, rolled, as pur- 
chased 

Tongues, pickled: 

Minimum 

Maximimi 

Average 

Tripe, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



56.3 
69.0 
47.7 



42.5 
54.9 
49.9 



42.4 
57.4 
5L3 

68.9 
80.2 
74.6 



40.0 

43.2 
56.5 
49.9 
34.3 

50.2 
65.9 
58.1 

33.1 

31.7 
42.4 
37.0 

49.2 

30.0 

50.9 
73.6 
62.3 

84.0 
91.1 
86.5 



Per cent 
Protein 



24.3 
20.2 
18.5 



20.1 
23.6 
21.4 



10.8 
23.4 
19.5 

16.5 
17.0 
16.8 



14.4 

13.1 
16.1 
14.6 
11.7 



Per cent 
Fat 



18.7 
9.5 
4.5 



21.6 
32.6 
25.1 



157 
32.7 
23.2 

2.6 
14.5 

8.5 



19.4 

24.9 
51.1 
33.0 
35.8 



13.3 

17.8 
15.3 


13.0 
30.2 
23.3 


11.1 


42.3 


11.3 
13.8 
12.6 


40.2 

48.7 
44.5 


14.3 


23.8 


12.0 


51.4 


8.3 
17.3 
12.8 


15.3 

25.8 
20.5 


7.1 
18.6 
11.7 


.9 
1.8 
1.2 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 

Ash 



1.5 
2.0 



2.9 
5.1 
4.0 



3.0 
6.3 
4.0 

.4 
.6 
.5 



4.5 

2.8 
3.1 
2.9 
4.0 

2.0 
4.9 
3.3 

3.6 

4.1 
9.0 
6.5 

4.6 

6.8 

3.1 
6.3 
4.7 

.1 
.4 
.3 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1,240 
775 
535 



1,305 
1,750 
1,455 



865 
1,725 
1,340 

425 
920 
670 



1,085 

1,350 
1,980 
1,665 
1,730 

880 
1,550 
1,270 

1,990 

1,955 
2,265 
2,110 

1,271 

2,390 

800 
1,410 
1,105 

185 
335 
270 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



275 
172 
118 



290 
388 
323 



192 
383 
297 

93 
204 

148 



241 

300 
440 
370 
384 

195 
344 

282 

442 

434 
503 

468 

282 

531 

177 
313 
245 

41 

74 
60 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMKKIOAN FOODS 709 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 
Beef, dried, etc. 

Dried, salted, and smoketi 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Veal, fresh 
Breast, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Breast, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chuck, lean 

Chuck, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flank, medium fat, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flank, fat, as purchased. . 
Flank, all analyses, as pur- 
chased 

Leg, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

cutlets: 

Mimmum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Leg, 



Leg, 



Per cent 
Water 



Per cent 
Protein 



Per ront 
Fat 



24.3 
65.4 
54.3 



68.4 
72.2 
70.3 

65.1 
68.4 
66.4 
76.3 

71.5 
75.4 
73.3 



64.4 
72.7 
68.9 
57.0 

66.9 

71.5 
75.6 
73.5 

67.8 
72.1 
70.0 

67.3 
75.4 
70.7 

71.3 
75.4 
73.3 

67.9 
69.7 
69.0 



24.4 

47.S 
30.0 



J 9.6 
22.9 
21.2 

19.1 
19.9 
19.4 



19.1 
21.1 
19.7 



19.4 
21.5 
20.5 
18.1 

20.1 

20.3 
22.6 
21.3 

18.2 
21.4 
20.2 

20.1 
20.5 
20.3 

18.8 
21.5 
20.4 

18.3 
20.3 
19.9 



2.8 

ll.N 

0.5 



8.0 
8.0 
8.0 

12.0 

15.4 

13.8 

1.9 

5.1 
8.5 
6.5 



7.8 
15.8 
10.4 
24.1 

12.7 

1.1 
6.4 
4.1 

6.7 

11.7 

9.0 

3.3 

10.6 

7.7 

4.8 
6.7 
5.6 

10.1 
13.0 
10.8 



Percent 
Ctirbo- 
hydnitai 



PuiL Vaujb 



2.7 

(3).4 



P^ cent Calorki Calorka 



Aih 



6.3 

16.0 

9.1 



1.0 

1.1 

1.0 

1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.2 

1.0 
1.0 
1.0 



.9 
1.1 
1.0 

.9 

1.0 

1.1 
1.3 
1.2 

1.0 
1.2 
1.2 

1.0 
1.2 
1.1 

1.0 
1.2 
1.2 

1.0 
l.I 
1.0 



Pound 



(.70 
020 
840 



700 
765 
730 

870 

1,010 

930 

465 

570 
715 
640 



1,085 

820 

1,355 

910 

465 
660 
570 

670 

1,780 

755 

515 
830 
706 

565 
680 
615 

805 
890 
825 



per 100 
OnuM 



120 
201 
186 



155 
170 
162 

103 
224 
206 
103 

126 
158 
142 



153 
230 
182 
301 

202 

103 
146 
126 

148 
305 
166 

114 
184 
156 

125 
151 
136 

178 
107 
183 



710 



a:n^alysis of amekica^^ foods 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD- 

Veal, fresh 



-Con. 



Loin, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Neck: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rib, medium fat 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ribs, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rump, as purchased .... 
Shank, fore: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shank, hind, medium fat 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shoulder, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shoulder and flank, me- 
dium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximimi 

Average 

Forequarter: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hind quarter: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Side, with kidney, fat, and 
tallow: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



61.3 
61.9 
61.6 

69.8 
75.8 
72.6 

70.4 
75.5 

72.7 

50.1 
67.8 
60.9 
43.7 

72.5 

75.8 
74.0 

73.4 
76.2 
74.5 

71.9 
74.9 
73.4 



64.7 
65.6 
65.2 

69.9 

74.8 
71.7 

68.4 
73.8 
70.9 



69.2 
74.3 
71.3 



Per cent 
Protein 



18.0 
19.3 

18.7 

19.9 
20.8 
20.3 

20.0 
21.7 
20.7 

16.2 
20.0 

18.7 
13.8 

19.8 
21.4 
20.7 

18.9 
21.6 
20.7 

20.7 
20.7 
20.7 



19.3 
20.1 
19.7 

19.5 
20.9 
20.0 

19.6 
20.8 
20.7 



19.8 
20.7 
20.2 



Per cent 
Fat 



18.3 
19.4 
18.9 

4.3 
9.2 
6.9 

3.4 
9.3 
6.1 

11.1 
31.5 
19.3 
11.3 

4.1 
6.4 
5.2 

3.0 
6.7 
4.6 

3.1 
6.2 
4.6 



13.5 
15.2 
14.4 

5.5 

10.6 

8.0 

5.6 

11.2 

8.3 



5.5 

10.3 

8.1 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
Ash 



1.0 
1.1 
1.0 

.9 
1.1 
1.0 

1.0 
1.2 
1.1 

.9 
1.1 
1.0 



1.0 
1.0 
1.0 

.9 
1.1 
1.0 

1.2 
1.3 
1.3 



1.1 
1.2 
1.1 



1.1 

.9 



1.2 
1.0 



.9 
1.1 
1.0 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1,130 
1,155 
1,145 

555 

775 
670 

530 
770 
640 

840 
1,630 
1,160 

735 

540 
655 
605 

520 
635 
520 

515 
635 
520 



945 

1,000 

975 

595 
810 
710 

620 
835 
735 



605 
805 
715 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



251 
256 
254 

123 

172 
148 

117 
171 
142 

186 
362 
257 
163 

120 
145 
134 

115 
141 
128 

114 
141 

128 



210 
222 
218 

132 
180 
157 

137 
185 
163 



134 

178 
158 



CHEMICAL COIIPOSITIOX OF AMERICAX FOODS 711 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con 
Veal Organs 

Heart, as purchased 

Kidnevs, ju^ pureluused : 

^Iinilnunl 

Maximum 

Average 

Liver, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Lungs, as purchased .... 

Lamb, fresh 
Breast or chuck, as pur- 
chased 

Leg, hind, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Leg, hind, fat: as pur- 
chased 

Leg, hind, very fat: as 

purchased 

Leg, hind, all analyses: as 

purchased 

Leg, free from all visible 

fat, as purchased 

Loin, A\ithout kidney and 
tallow: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Neck 

Shoulder 

Forequarter 

Hind quarter 

Side, without tallow: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Lamb, cooked 
Chops, broiled: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Leg, roast 

Lamb, canned 
Tongue, spiced and 
cooked 



Per cent 
Water 



73.2 

74.7 
76.8 
75.8 

72.4 
73.7 
73.0 
76.8 



45.5 

63.1 
64.7 
63.9 

47.3 

48.2 

50.3 

72.3 



48.6 
54.8 
53.1 
56.7 
51.8 
55.1 
60.9 

56.8 
60.0 
58.2 



43.4 
50.4 
47.6 
67.1 



67.4 



Percent 
Protein 



16.8 

16.6 
17.1 
16.9 

18.4 
19.6 
19.0 
17.1 



15.4 

18.7 
19.7 
19.2 

15.8 

16.4 

16.0 

25.3 



16.9 
20.2 
18.7 
17.7 
18.1 
18.3 
19.6 

17.0 
18.9 
17.6 



19.2 
25.2 
21.7 
19.7 



13.9 



Per w»nt 
Fat 



9.6 

5.4 
7.4 
6.4 

4.0 
6.6 
5.3 
5.0 



19.1 

15.3 
17.6 
16.5 

23.7 

28.0 

19.7 

2.7 



25.1 
35.1 
28.3 
24.8 
29.7 
25.8 
19.1 

21.2 
25.7 
•23.1 



24.3 
34.7 
29.9 
12.7 



17.8 



P^oeni 
Cafbo- 
hydnUci 



Pv oeot Caloritti Cftlork* 



Aah 



1.0 

1.3 

1.4 
1.3 

1.2 
1.3 
1.3 
1.1 



.8 

1.1 
1.2 
1.1 

.8 

.8 

.9 

1.4 

.8 
1.1 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 

1.0 

LI 



1.1 

1.7 

1.3 

.8 



.5 



PviL Valvb 



Pdund 



720 

645 
020 
A85 

535 
820 

575 
530 



1,090 

1,010 
1,090 
1,055 

1,205 

1,485 

1,130 

585 



1,420 
1,795 
1,540 
1,375 
1,500 
1,430 
1,170 

1.235 
1,400 
1,300 



1,405 

1,860 

1,665 

900 



1,010 



per 100 
Qfmmi 



160 

121 
137 
130 

118 
137 
127 
117 



242 

224 
242 
234 

287 

330 

251 

130 

315 
398 
342 
305 
353 
317 
260 

274 
311 



332 
413 
370 
200 



224 



712 



ANALYSTS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Cow. 
MiUton, fresh 

Chuck, lean 

Chuck, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chuck, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flank, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum , . . 

Average 

Leg, hind, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Leg, hind, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, without kidney or 
tallow, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin, without kidney or 
tallow, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Neck, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Neck, very fat. . . . . . . . 

Shoulder, lean 

Shoulder, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shoulder, fat 

Shoulder, very fat 

Forequarter: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



64.7 

47.9 
56.7 
50.9 

37.6 
43.5 
40.6 

38.7 
51.2 
46.2 

66.6 
68.3 
67.4 

58.4 
65.3 
62.8 



44.9 
55.9 
50.2 



42.0 
44.3 
43.3 

54.7 
61.9 
58.1 
42.1 
67.2 

58.6 
65.2 
61.9 
53.0 

48.4 

37.2 
64.3 
52.9 



Per cent 
Protein 



17.8 

14.4 
16.3 
15.1 

13.6 
14.0 
13.9 

12.4 
17.1 
15.2 

19.3 
20.2 
19.8 

17.4 
19.4 
18.5 



13.7 
19.6 
16.0 



14.5 
15.1 
14.7 

12.8 
20.0 
16.9 
13.9 
19.5 

16.6 
18.3 
17.7 
16.2 
15.6 

12.1 
17.2 
15.6 



Per cent 
Fat 



16.3 

26.0 
37.4 
33.6 

42.5 
47.2 
44.9 

32.1 
45.0 
38.3 

11.9 
13.0 
12.4 

14.6 
22.5 
18.0 



25.9 
37.6 
33.1 



40.9 
43.3 
41.7 

17.8 
29.5 
24.6 
43.5 
12.9 

15.6 
24.3 
19.9 
30.3 
35.6 

17.1 
50.4 
30.9 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



1.0 



Per cent 
Ash 



.9 

.7 

1.2 

.6 

.7 
1.0 



.5 

.8 

.7 

1.0 
1.2 
1.1 

.9 
1.0 
1.0 



1.1 
1.0 

.8 
1.0 

.9 
.9 
.9 



.7 

1.1 

.9 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1,020 

1,400 
1,845 
1,700 

2,055 
2,245 
2,155 

1,670 
2,190 
1,900 

875 
920 
890 

955 
1,295 
1.105 



1,430 
1,860 
1,695 



1,995 
2,100 
2,035 

1,125 
1,540 
1,355 
2,095 
905 

1,115 
1,335 
1,170 
1,580 
1,790 

1,040 
2,350 
1,595 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



248 

311 
410 
377 

456 

498 
478 

371 

486 
422 

194 
204 
197 

212 

287 
245 



317 
413 
376 



443 

466 
452 

250 
342 
301 
465 
201 

247 
296 
260 
351 
397 

231 
522 
354 



CHEMICAL COSH'OSITION OF AMKHICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD -Con. 

Mutton, fresh 

Hindquartcr: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

AveniRc^ 

Side, including tallow: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Side, not including tallow 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

MiUtoriy cooked 
Mutton, leg roast: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Mutton, organs 
Heart, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Kidney, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Liver, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Lungs, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Mvtton, canned 

Corned, as purchased 

Tongue, as purchased . . . . 

Pork, fresh 
Chuck ribs and shoulder: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flank: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per rent 

\\'ttt<T 



40.4 

m.A 

54.S 

47.2 
55.9 
54.2 

38.8 
58.8 
53.6 



50.8 
51.0 
50.9 



67.4 
71.6 
69.5 

2.9 
3.9 
3.4 

52.7 
69.8 
61.2 

74.6 
77.1 
75.9 



45.8 
47.6 



50.3 
51.9 
51.1 

56.0 
60.7 
59.0 



Per rf»nt 
Protein 



13.2 
18.2 
16.7 

14.5 
18.9 
16.3 

12.6 
17.4 
16.2 



23.3 

27.8 
25.0 



15.8 
18.0 
16.9 

1.7 
1.8 
1.8 

23.1 
24.2 
23.1 

19.0 
21.4 
20.2 



28.8 
24.4 



17.2 
17.3 
17.3 

17.2 
19.5 
18.5 



Per cent 
Fat 



21.4 
46.1 
28.1 

14.7 
.38.0 
28.9 

23.3 

48.2 
29.8 



20.5 
24.6 
22.6 



11.9 
13.4 
12.6 

94.9 
95.8 
95.4 

4.7 

13.2 

9.0 

2.6 
2.9 

2.8 



22.8 
24.0 



30.4 
31.9 
31.1 

19.4 
26.9 
22.2 



Percent 
Carixy- 
hydrmiai 



2.1 
7.9 
5.0 



P^oentCtlorieiCdoriai 



Aflh 



.6 
1.0 

.8 

.7 

1.0 

.9 

.7 
.9 
.8 



1.2 
1.3 
1.2 



1.4 
2.0 
1.7 

1.2 
1.3 
1.2 



4.2 

4.8 



.9 
.9 
.9 

.9 
1.0 
1.0 



FuBL Value 



Pound 



1.235 
2,190 
1,495 

965 
1,860 
1,520 

1,295 
2,265 
1,560 



1,380 
1,470 
1,420 



795 
890 
845 

4,035 
4,075 
4,060 

645 

1,155 

905 

475 
505 
495 



1,500 
1,465 



1,605 
1,665 
1,635 

1.180 
1.455 
1,290 



per 100 
Gnuni 



274 
486 
382 

214 
413 
337 

287 
508 
346 



306 
326 
315 



176 
197 
187 

806 
906 
902 

143 
256 
201 

105 
112 
110 



333 
325 



356 
370 



262 
323 
286 



714 



AN^ALYSIS OF AMEKICAISr FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— CoTi. 
Pork, fresh 

Ham, fresh, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximmn 

Average 

Ham, fresh, medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham, fresh, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham, fresh, visible fat 

largely removed 

Head: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Head cheese: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Loin (chops), lean 

Loin (chops), medium fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



fat: 



Loin (chops) 
Minimum. . 
Maximum . 
Average. . . 

Loin, tenderloin 

chased: 

Minimum. . 

Maximum . , 

Average. . . , 



as pur- 



Middle cuts: 
Minimum. 
Maximum 
Average. . 



Shoulder: 

Minimum. 
Maximum 
Average. . 



55.6 
64.4 
60.0 

37.3 
60.3 
53.9 

30.4 
44.3 

38.7 

64.5 

38.4 
50.5 
45.3 

38.1 
48.1 
43.3 
60.3 

49.1 
55.2 
52.0 



39.7 
46.7 
41.8 



62.4 

72.8 
66.5 



46.0 
49.4 

48.2 



44.0 
63.6 
51.2 



Per cent 
Protein 



19.8 
30.2 
25.0 

9.9 
20.3 
15.3 

10.7 
14.2 
12.4 

19.2 

11.6 
14.5 
13.4 



Per cent 
Fat 



11.3 
19.3 
14.5 



15.8 
20.5 
18.9 



15.7 
15.7 
15.7 



9.4 
17.4 
13.3 



13.0 
15.8 
14.4 

21.2 
39.4 

28.9 

43.8 
61.1 
50.0 

16.2 

34.5 
50.5 
41.3 



17.4 


27.4 


21.5 


40.5 


19.5 


33.8 


20.3 


19.0 


13.8 


25.0 


19.4 


35.2 


16.6 


30.1 



38.8 
48.6 
44.4 



9.3 
17.1 
13.0 



34.9 
38.8 
36.3 



18.5 
49.3 
34.2 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
Ash 



1.0 
1.6 
1.3 



1.3 



.6 

.8 

.7 

3.0 
3.4 
3.3 
1.0 



1.1 
1.0 



.9 
1.2 
1.0 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1,035 
1,110 
1,075 

1,225 
2,070 
1,505 

2,030 

2,825 
2,345 

1,040 

1,725 
2,350 
1,990 

1,555 
2,035 
1,790 
1,180 

1,415 

1,785 
1,580 



1,995 
2,260 
2,145 



770 

1,100 

900 



1,760 
1,925 
1.825 



1,105 
2,260 
1,690 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



230 
246 
238 

272 
460 
334 

451 
627 
521 

231 

383 
522 
442 

345 
452 
397 
262 

314 
397 
351 



443 
502 
476 



171 
244 
200 



391 
427 
405 



245 
502 
375 



CHEMICAL CO.\1POS1TION OF AMERICAN FOODS 715 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 
Pork, fresh 

Side, lard and other fat 
includtMi: 

Mininunn 

Maxinunn 

Average. . 
Side, not incluiiing 
and kidney: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



lard 



Clear backs: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Clear bellies: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Back, fat, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bellj^ fat, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham fat, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Jowl fat, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Feet: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tails: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Trimmings: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Percent 
Water 



26.2 
31.8 
29.4 



29.4 
43.1 
34.4 



20.2 
32.3 
25.1 

21.5 
37.3 
31.4 

5.5 

10.5 

7.7 

11.0 
16.7 
13.8 

8.3 

10.2 

9.1 

13.3 
21.2 
16.0 

50.7 
61.3 
55.4 

11.5 
25.8 
17.4 

16.5 
29.7 
23.3 



Per cent 
Protein 



8.4 
9.9 
9.4 



7.1 

11.0 

9.1 



4.9 

8.4 
6.4 

3.5 

8.8 
6.9 

3.2 
4.1 
3.6 

3.9 
6.1 
5.2 

3.1 
3.7 
3.5 



Per cent 
Fat 



59. 1 
65.0 
61.7 



44.0 
()4.4 
55.3 



o7.S 
74.4 
67.6 

52.1 
74.0 
60.4 

86.7 
92.4 
89.9 

78.6 
85.6 
81.9 

87.2 
89.2 
88.0 



5.1 
6.9 
5.9 


72.8 
82.2 

78.8 


8.3 
19.2 
15.8 


17.4 

31.5 
26.3 


2.9 
6.8 

4.8 


67.2 

84.7 
77.1 


3.9 
7.2 
5.4 


62.1 
78.9 
70.2 



Permit 
CartK>> 
hydratM 



PeroeiitCakirieiCaloriM 



Aah 



Fuel Valub 



per 
Pound 



2,(J75 
2,025 
2,780 



2,060 
2,880 
2,505 



2,505 
3.235 
2,070 

2,380 
3,500 
2,675 

3,730 
3,055 
3,860 

3,430 
3,685 
3,555 

3,740 
3,825 
3,780 

3,200 
3,575 
3,435 

1,000 
1,630 
1,405 

2,040 
3,630 
3,340 

2,750 
3,465 
3,060 



per 100 
GmnM 



594 
660 
617 



457 
640 
506 



576 
718 
660 

524 
707 

828 
878 
857 

762 
818 
700 

831 
850 
840 

711 
704 
763 

242 
362 
312 

653 
806 
742 

611 
770 



47 



716 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAiN' FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 
Pork, organs, etc. 

Brains, as purchased. . . . 

Heart, as purchased 

Kidneys, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Liver, as purchased 

Lungs, as purchased 

Marrow, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Skin, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pork, 'pickled, salted, and 

smoked 
Ham, smoked, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham, smoked, medium 
fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham, smoked, fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham, smoked, boiled, as 
purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average.- 

Ham, smoked, fired, as 

purchased 

Ham, boneless, raw: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham, luncheon, cooked: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 


Per cent 


Water 


Protein 


75.8 


11.7 


75.6 


17.1 


76.1 


15.2 


79.5 


15.9 


77.8 


15.5 


71.4 


21.3 


83.3 


11.9 


13.2 


1.5 


16.7 


3.2 


14.6 


2.3 


35.5 


18.5 


55.4 


33.3 


46.3 


26.4 


49.5 


19.5 


57.4 


20.2 


53.5 


19.8 


34.7 


12.5 


45.6 


22.9 


40.3 


16.3 


22.4 


12.0 


34.9 


19.5 


27.9 


14.8 


39.2 


18.1 


63.4 


22.2 


51.3 


20.2 


36.6 


22.2 


40.3 


10.0 


55.9 


17.3 


50.1 


14.9 


47.8 


19.5 


50.5 


25.5 


49.2 


22.5 



Per cent 
Fat 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



10.3 
6.3 

4.1 
5.5 
4.8 
4.5 
4.0 

78.4 
84.5 
81.2 

14.4 
35.3 
22.7 



17.0 
24.4 
20.8 



30.3 
44.7 

38.8 



42.0 
56.8 
52.3 



7.8 
37.0 
22.4 

33.2 

17.3 
38.9 
28.5 

19.4 
22.7 
21.0 



1.4 



Per cent 
Ash 



1.6 
1.0 

1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
1.4 



5.4 

5.8 
5.5 



2.7 
7.4 

4.8 



.6 
6.5 
3.7 



5.6 
6.6 
6.1 

5.8 

4.4 
6.6 
6.0 

5.0 
6.7 

5.8 



Fuel Value 



Calories 
per 



Calories 
per 100 
Pound Grams 



655 
585 

455 
530 
490 
615 
390 

3,360 
4,095 
3,470 

1,140 
1,860 
1,450 



1,080 
1,405 
1,245 



1,690 
2,145 
1,940 



2,135 
2,652 

2,485 



740 
1,900 
1,320 

1,815 

1,052 
1,930 
1,480 

1,290 
1,320 
1,305 



145 
130 

101 
117 
108 
136 

86 

776 
910 
771 

253 
413 
322 



240 
312 
276 



375 
476 
431 



474 
589 
552 



164 
122 
293 

403 

233 

428 
328 

286 
293 
290 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMEUlCA.N iOODS 717 



Food Mateiuals 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con 

Pork, pickled, salted, and 

smoked 

Shoulder, smokwl, medi- 
um fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shoulder, smoked, fat: 

Minimimi 

Maximum 

Average 

Pigs' tongues, pickled: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pigs' feet, pickled: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Dry-salted backs: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Dry-salted beUies: 

Minimum 

Maxim_um 

Average 

Salt pork, clear fat, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Salt pork, lean ends: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bacon, smoked, medium 
fat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bacon, smoked, lean: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bacon, smoked, all analy- 
ses: 

As purchased 



Percent 
Water 



41.5 
49.6 
45.0 

22.0 
30.4 
26.5 

51.8 
65.4 
58.6 

61.7 
74.7 
68.2 

17.0 
17.6 
17.3 

17.2 
18.1 
17.7 



.3 

12.2 
7.9 

18.2 
22.2 
19.9 



7.7 
26.9 

18.8 

30.8 
32.7 
31.8 



18.4 



Percent 

Protein 



14.2 
17.1 
15.9 

14.2 
15.9 
15.1 

17.0 
18.3 
17.7 

12.S 
19.8 
16.3 

6.7 

8.7 
7.7 

8.3 
8.5 
8.4 



.2 
5.0 
1.9 

7.7 
9.S 

8.4 



6.3 

18.0 

9.9 

13.4 
17.6 
15.5 



9.5 



I*crocnt 
Fat 



28.8 

:J5.0 

32.6 

40.0 
58.2 
53.6 

16.5 
23.1 
19.8 

11.5 
18.1 
14.8 

71.6 
73.8 
72.7 

71.5 
72.9 
72.2 



80.3 
94.1 
86.2 

62.3 
69.8 
67.1 



57.4 
79.7 
67.4 

40.0 
45.2 
42.6 



50.4 



Percent 
Carbo 
hydraim 



PteoentCdorieiCakMiM 



Aah 



5.5 
8.2 
6.7 

4.7 
5.7 
5.2 

.5 
6.7 
3.6 

.9 

1.0 

.9 

2.2 
3.5 
2.8 

3.2 
3.6 
3.4 



2.6 
5.0 
3.9 

5.3 
6.1 
5.7 



2.7 
7.9 
4.4 

5.7 
16.3 
11.0 



4.5 



Fuel Vauhi 



Pound 



1,480 
1,780 
1,665 

2,365 
2,720 
2,545 

1,015 
1,310 
1,165 

725 

1,130 

930 

3,180 
3,240 
3,210 

3.170 
3,235 
3,200 



3,505 
3,975 
3,670 

2,810 
3,100 
2,985 



2,665 
3,480 
3,030 

1,940 
2,435 
2,065 



2,685 



per 100 
Gruna 



906 
370 

525 
604 
565 

225 
291 
258 

161 
231 
206 

706 
720 
713 

704 
718 
711 



778 
883 

815 

624 
688 

668 



502 
775 
673 

431 
541 
463 



506 



718 



a:n^alysis of amekica^^ foods 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 

Pork, pickled, salted, and 

smoked 

Ribs, cooked, as purchased 
Steak, cooked, as pur- 
chased 

Pork, canned 
Brawn, boars' brains, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Boars' heads, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ham, deviled, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sausage 

Aries, as purchased 

Banquet, as purchased.. . 
Bologna: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Farmer, as purchased. . . . 
Frankfort, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Holsteiner, as purchased.. 
Lyons, pure ham as pur- 
chased 

Pork, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pork sausage meat, as 

purchased 

Pork and beef chopped 
together, as purchased. 
Salami : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



33.6 
33.2 



44.3 
53.7 
49.0 



50.5 
60.1 
55.3 



38.4 
49.4 
44.1 

16.3 
61.7 

53.5 
67.0 
60.0 
22.2 

40.3 
64.8 
57.2 
25.1 

29.2 

25.7 
54.4 
39.8 

46.2 

55.4 

28.6 
32.4 
30.5 



Per cent 
Protein 


Per cent 
Fat 


24.8 


37.6 




45.4 


20.1 
30.3 
25.2 


12.9 
33.2 
23.0 


19.8 
21.6 
20.7 


19.3 
25.0 
22.2 


16.5 
21.4 
19.0 


29.5 
38.9 
34.1 


25.4 
18.0 


48.0 
15.4 


15.3 
21.2 
18.7 
27.9 


11.1 
24.0 
17.6 
40.4 


14.6 
26.9 
19.6 

28.7 


14.8 
25.9 
18.6 
36.5 


29.1 


24.5 


7.3 
19.0 
13.0 • 


28.2 
56.8 
44.2 


17.4 


32.5 


19.4 


24.1 


23.4 
24.9 
24.1 


37.8 
42.0 
39.9 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



2.4 
8.6 
1.1 
3.3 



8.6 
1.1 



Per cent 
Ash 



2.2 

1.5 



4.3 

4.9 
4.6 



2.8 
3.8 
3.3 



2.3 
4.4 
3.3 

6.9 
3.6 

3.0 
5.2 
3.7 
7.3 

.7 
8.1 
3.4 
4.2 

7.2 

1.0 

2.7 
2.2 

3.4 

1.0 

6.9 
7.1 
7.0 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



2,050 



2,285 



1,110 
1,775 
1,440 



1,180 
1,455 
1,320 



1,610 
1,975 
1,790 

2,495 
985 

820 
1,320 
1,095 
2,225 

985 
1,595 
1,170 
2,135 

1,575 

1,485 
2,635 
2,125 

1,695 

1,380 

2,055 
2,205 
2,130 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



455 
507 



246 
394 
320 



262 
323 
293 



357 

438 
397 

554 
218 

182 
293 
243 
494 

218 
354 
260 
474 

350 

330 

585 
172 

376 

306 

456 
490 
473 



CIIE:\II( AL COMPOSITION OF AMKKK'AN FOODS 719 





Per rent 
Water 


Per cent 
l*rotcin 


Per cent 
Fat 


Per cent 
(arfoo- 


IVroent 
Aih 


PUBL VaUJB 


Food Material 


pv per 100 
Pound Qnam 


ANIMAL FOOD-Con. 

Sausage 
Summer: 

Minimum 


20.0 
25.0 

2:^.2 

46.4 
43.9 

72.2 
76.3 

74.8 

54.1 
70.7 
63.7 

38.5 

49.5 
66.1 
55.5 

72.5 

72.0 

69.3 

73.8 
62.6 

62.7 

68.6 
69.6 

59.9 
62.1 
67.5 
52.0 

65.0 

46.9 

47.4 
57.7 
66.9 


23.5 
29.4 
26.0 
20.1 
28.0 

19.0 
25.4 
21.5 

15.5 
21.8 
19.3 

13.4 

19.0 
24.9 
21.1 

24.7 

20.7 

22.4 
19.6 
16.6 

20.5 

16.8 
22.9 

27.0 
21.8 
17.6 

27.8 

20.8 

20.7 
22.4 

21.8 


43.0 
45.7 
44.5 
33.1 
22.1 

1.6 
4.0 
2.5 

9.7 
28.3 
16.3 

29.8 

8.7 
30.7 
22.9 

1.4 

5.5 

4.2 

5.8 

15.9 

14.5 

13.2 
5.2 

11.5 
10.9 
11.5 
18.4 

10.8 

30.0 

29.2 

10.2 

8.0 


L6 

• 

2.4 
3.7 
1.2 

.6 

3.'8 
2.4 

5.5 

7.6 
1.7 


7.3 
8.0 
7.7 
3.2 
4.4 

1.0 
1.4 
1.1 

.8 
1.5 
1.0 

.7 

.9 
1.3 
1.0 

1.4 

1.4 

1.7 
1.0 
1.2 

1.1 

1.0 
1.7 

1.3 
1.4 
1.0 
1.2 

1.6 

2.6 

2.7 
2.1 
1.6 


2,280 
2,480 
2,360 
1,770 
1,485 

440 
550 
505 

770 
1,520 
1,045 

2,505 

830 
1,650 
1,360 

520 

615 

010 

610 

1,050 

1,015 

870 
655 

985 

935 

855 

1,295 

870 

1,655 

1.615 
985 
775 


ao6 


Maximum 


533 


Average. 


524 


Tongue, f\s purcluused .... 
Wienerwurst, a.s purehascd. 
Poultry and Game^ fresh 
Chicken, broilers: 

Minimum 


393 
330 

97 


Maximum 


122 


Average 


112 


Fowls: 

Minimum 


171 


Maximum 


337 


Average 


232 


Goose, young, as pur- 
chased 


556 


Turkey: 

Minimum 


184 


Maximum 


366 


Average 


302 


Chicken gizzard, as pur- 
chased 


115 


Chicken heart, as pur- 
chased 


136 


Chicken hver, as pur- 
chased 


142 


froose firizzard 


135 


Goose hver, as purchased. 
Turkey gizzard, as pur- 
chased 


233 
225 


Turkey heart, as pur- 
chased 


193 


Turkey liver, as purchased 
Poultry and Game, cooked 
r^anon 


145 
218 


Capon with stuffing 

Chicken, fricasseed 

Tnrkev roast 


207 
145 
287 


Turkey, roast, light and 

dark meat and stuffing. 

Poultry and Game, canned 

Chicken, sandwich, as 

niirohflsed 


193 
367 


Turkey, sandwich, as pur- 

/•ViQQpn 


358 
218 
172 


Plover, roast, as purchased 
Quail, as purchased 



720 



A^^ALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 

Fish, fresh 
Alewife, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximmn 

Average 

Bass, black, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bass, red, whole, as pur 

chased 

Bass, sea, whole, as pur- 
chased ' 

Bass, striped, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Blackfish, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Blackfish, entrails re- 
moved, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average ... 

Buffalo fish, entrails re- 
moved, as purchased . . 
Butter-fish, whole, as pur- 
chased 

Catfish, as purchased .... 
Ciscoe, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Ciscoe, entrails removed, 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cod, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cod, sections: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cod, steaks 



Per cent 
Water 



73.0 
75.9 
74.4 

74.8 
78.6 
76.7 

29.8 

34.8 

75.8 
79.6 

77.7 

76.9 
81.4 
79.1 



33.5 
36.4 
35.0 

37.3 

40.1 
51.7 

72.3 
76.1 
74.0 



62.4 

68.8 
65.6 

80.7 
83.5 

82.6 

81.8 
83.5 
82.5 
79.7 



Per cent 
Protein 



19.0 
19.7 
19.4 

19.4 
21.7 
20.6 

6.2 

8.7 

17.1 
19.5 
18.6 

17.6 
19.3 

18.7 



8.0 

8.8 
8.4 

8.5 

10.3 
11.6 

17.7 
19.3 
18.5 



15.3 

17.2 
16.3 



Per cent 
Fat 



3.8 
6.0 
4.9 

1.0 
2.5 

1.7 

.2 

.2 

1.6 
4.6 

2.8 

.6 

2.8 
1.3 



.4 

.7 
.5 

1.1 

6.3 
16.6 

3.5 
9.2 

6.8 



7.2 
7.8 
7.5 



15.5 
18.3 
16.5 


.3 
.5 
.4 


15.6 
17.7 
16.7 
18.7 


.1 
.5 
.3 
.5 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
Ash 



1.4 
1.5 
1.5 

1.2 
1.2 
1.2 

.4 

.6 

.9 
1.4 
1.2 

.6 
1.4 
1.1 



.6 
.7 

.9 
1.3 
1.1 



1.0 
.9 

1.0 
1.4 
1.2 



1.0 

.9 

1.2 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



515 
620 
570 

405 
510 
455 

125 

170 

405 
530 
465 

350 
475. 
405 



125 
205 
175 

205 

460 
915 

505 
715 
630 



615 
625 
620 

300 
370 
325 

300 
335 
325 
370 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



114 
137 
126 

90 
113 
101 

27 

37 

90 
118 
103 

77 

105 

90 



27 
45 
38 

45 

102 
203 

112 
158 
140 



136 

138 
137 

66 

82 
72 

66 
74 

72 
82 



CIIEMTCAL COMPOSITION OF AMEUICAN FOODS 721 



Food Materials' 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con 
Fish, fresh 

Cusk, entrails removed. . 
Et^ls, salt water, head, skin 
and entrails removed: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

As purchased: 

Minimum 

Maxinuun 

Average 

Flounder, whole: 

Minimmn 

Maximum 

Average 

Haddock, entrails re- 
moved: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hake, entrails removed, 

as purchased 

Halibut, steaks or sec- 
tions : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Herring, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Kingfish, whole 

Lamprey, whole 

Mackerel, whole: 

Minimum — 

Maximum 

Average 

Mackerel, entrails re- 
moved, as purchased . . . 

Mullet, whole 

Muskellunge, whole 

Perch, white, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Perch, pike (wall-eyed 
pike) 



Per cent 
Water 



82.0 



69.8 
73.4 
71.6 

54.9 
59.4 
57.2 



83.4 
85.0 

84.2 



80.3 
82.6 
8L7 

39.5 



70.1 
79.2 
75.4 

69.0 
76.0 
72.5 
79.2 
7L1 

64.0 

78.7 
73.4 

43.7 
74.9 
76.3 

75.6 
75.8 
75.7 

79.7 



Per rent 
Protein 



17.0 



17.8 
19.3 
18.6 

14.4 
15.2 
14.6 



13.3 
14.9 
14.2 



16.3 
18.6 
17.2 

7.3 



17.5 
19.7 
18.6 

19.1 
19.8 
19.5 
18.9 
15.0 

17.5 
19.5 
18.7 

11.6 
19.5 
20.2 

18.0 
20.6 
19.3 

18.6 



Per rent 
Fat 



7.0 

10.3 

9.1 

6.4 
8.1 
7.2 



2.2 

10.6 

5.2 

3.2 
11.0 

7.1 

.9 

13.3 

2.2 

16.3 

7.1 

3.5 
4.6 
2.5 

2.5 
5.6 
4.0 



Pit eent 
( 'arU>- 
hydntM 



Percent CtloriedCalorki 



Aih 



.0 
1.1 
1.0 

.7 
.9 
.8 



L2 
L3 
1.3 



LO 
1.6 
1.2 



.9 
1.1 
1.0 

1.5 
1.6 
1.5 
1.2 
.7 

1.0 
1.5 
1.2 

.7 
1.2 
1.6 

1.1 
1.3 
1.2 

1.4 



Finn VAum 



Pound 



per 100 
QruM 



666 
705 
790 

640 
626 
680 



280 
305 
290 



315 
355 
335 

150 



420 
790 
565 

505 
820 



840 

430 
,015 
615 

365 
555 
480 

490 
570 
530 

366 



72 



147 
176 
102 

120 
138 
128 



62 
67 
64 



70 
78 
74 

33 



n 

175 
125 

112 
182 
146 
86 
186 

05 
232 
143 

81 
123 
106 

108 
126 
117 

81 



722 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICA:N^ FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Cori. 
Fish, fresh 

Perch, yellow, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pickerel, pike, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pike, gray, whole 

Pollock, dressed 

Pompano, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Porgy, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Red grouper, entrails re 
moved: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Red snapper, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Salmon, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Salmon, landlocked, whole 
spent: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Salmon, California, an- 
terior sections: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shad, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shad roe, as purchased. . 



Per cent 
Water 



78.1 
80.4 
79.3 

79.5 
79.9 
79.8 
80.8 
76.0 

67.4 

78.2 
72.8 

72.0 
79.7 
75.0 



79.0 
79.9 
79.5 

77.4 

79.8 

78.5 

61.0 
69.5 
64.6 



75.3 
79.2 

77.7 



62.7 
64.5 
63.6 



65.2 
73.6 
70.6 
71.2 



Per cent 
Protein 



17.8 
19.7 
18.7 

18.4 
19.0 
18.7 
17.9 
21.6 

18.4 
19.3 

18.8 

17.4 
19.4 
18.6 



18.7 
19.8 
19.3 

19.3 
20.2 
19.7 

19.4 
25.2 
22.0 



16.6 
19.1 

17.8 



17.0 
18.6 
17.8 



18.1 
20.1 
18.8 
20.9 



Per cent 
Fat 



.6 
1.1 



1.6 

13.5 

7.5 

1.5 
7.9 
5.1 



.5 

.7 
.6 

.5 
1.9 
1.0 

10.2 
15.0 
12.8 



2.0 
4.4 
3.3 



16.5 
19.2 
17.8 



6.5 

13.6 

9.5 

3.8 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



2.6 



Per cent 
Ash 



1.1 
1.3 
1.2 

1.1 
1.2 
1.1 
1.1 
1.5 

1.0 
1.0 
1.0 

1.3 
1.4 
1.4 



1.1 
1.2 
1.1 

1.3 
1.3 
1.3 

1.1 
1.6 
1.4 



1.1 
1.2 
1.2 



1.0 
1.1 
1.1 



.9 
1.5 
1.3 
1.5 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



355 
410 
380 

365 
375 
370 
365 
435 

425 
910 
665 

385 
685 
560 



370 
395 
385 

380 
445 
410 



790 

1,035 

950 



395 
500 
470 



1,040 
1,125 
1,080 



635 
945 
750 
600 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



78 
91 

84 

81 

83 
82 
81 
96 

94 
202 
147 

85 
152 
124 



82 
87 
85 

84 
98 
91 

175 
230 
211 



87 
111 
104 



231 
250 
240 



141 
210 
166 
133 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMKHICAX FOODS 723 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOn-ron. 

Fi'<h, fresh 

Shoci)shead, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Skate, lobe of body 

Smelt, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Spanish maekerel, whole.. 
Sturgeon, anterior sections 

Tomcod, whole 

Trout, brook, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Trout, salmon or lake: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Turbot 

Weak fish, whole 

Whitefish 

Fish, cooked 

Bluefish, cooked 

Spanish maekerel, broiled. 
Fish, preserved and canned 
Cod, salt: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Cod, salt "boneless": 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Haddock, smoked 

Halibut, smoked: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Herring, smoked 

Lamprey, canned 

Mackerel, salt, entrails re- 
moved 

Mackerel, salt, canned, as 
purchased 



Per cent 
Water 



72.0 
70.1 
75.6 
82.2 

78.2 
.S0.2 
79.2 
6K.1 
7S.7 
8L5 

75.8 
79.8 
77.8 

68.8 
72.9 
70.8 
71.4 
79.0 
69.8 

68.2 
68.9 



53.5 
53.6 
53.5 



54.4 
55.7 
55.0 
72.5 

47.7 
5.11 
49.4 
34.6 
63.3 

42.2 

68.2 



Perccnt'lNTernt 



Protein 



19.4 
20.S 
20.1 
18.2 



Fat 



24.9 
25.9 
25.4 



26.3 
28.2 
27.3 
23.3 

18.5 
23.0 
20.7 
36.9 
16.9 

21.1 

19.6 



16.5 


1.6 


18.7 


1.9 


17.6 


1.8 


21.5 


9.4 


18.1 


1.9 


17.2 


.4 


18.6 


.8 


20.3 


2.9 


19.2 


2.1 


17.6 


8.1 


17.9 


12.6 


17.8 


10.3 


14.8 


14.4 


17.8 


2.4 


22.9 


6.5 


25.9 


4.5 


23.7 


6.5 



.7 
6.7 
3.7 
1.4 



.3 
.3 
.3 
.2 

14.4 
15.6 
15.0 
15.8 
12.2 

22.6 

8.7 



Porrent 
( 'iirl»f>- 
hydrmica 



3.6 



PeroBQtCtloriaiCalorini 



Aah 



1.1 
1.3 
1.2 
1.1 

1.4 
2.0 
1.7 
1.5 
1.4 
1.0 

1.0 
1.4 
1.2 

1.0 
1.3 
1.2 
1.3 
1.2 
1.6 

1.2 
1.4 



24.4 
25.0 
24.7 



14.9 

23.1 

19.0 

3.6 

14.9 
15.2 
15.0 
13.2 
4.0 

13.2 

3.2 



FvBL Vautb 



Pound 



390 
670 
530 
400 

385 
415 
405 
795 
415 
335 

385 
500 
445 

675 
860 
765 
885 
430 
700 

670 
715 



405 
420 
410 



per 100 
Onung 



425 
555 
490 
440 

1.000 
1,035 
1,020 
1355 
805 

1^45 

730 



m 

148 

117 

88 

85 

92 
90 
176 
92 
74 

85 

Ul 

96 

150 
191 
170 
196 
95 
155 

148 
158 



90 
93 
91 



94 
123 
108 

97 

222 
230 
226 
301 
198 

298 

162 



I 



724 



a:n^alysis of American foods 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con 
Fish, preserved and canned 

Mackerel, salt, canned in 

oil 

Mackerel, salt, dressed: 

Minimum 

Maximima 

Average 

Minogy, pickled, canned.. 
Pilchard in tomatoes, 
canned, Russian, as pur- 
chased 

Salmon, canned: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sardines, canned: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sturgeon, dried, Russian, 

as purchased 

Trout, brook 

Tunney, as purchased. . . . 
Tunney, canned in oil, 

Russian 

Amphibia 
Frogs' legs: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

As purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shellfish, fresh 
Clams, long, in shell: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Clams, round, in shell. . . . 
Crabs, hardshell, whole. . . 
Crayfish, abdomen, whole. 

Lobster, whole: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Mussels, in shell 



Per cent 
Water 



58.3 

43.2 
43.6 
43.4 
56.5 



52.7 

57.5 
67.1 
63.5 

48.2 
56.4 
52.3 

44.1 

68.4 

72.7 

51.3 



81.2 
86.2 
83.7 

54.8 
59.1 
56.9 



85.0 
86.1 
85.8 
86.2 
77.1 
81.2 



68.6 
84.3 
79.2 
84.2 



Per cent 
Protein 



25.4 

16.6 
17.9 
17.3 
22.0 



27.9 

19.5 
24.3 

21.8 

21.2 
24.9 
23.0 

27.8 
22.3 
21.7 

23.8 



13.2 
17.7 
15.5 

19.1 
12.0 
10.5 



8.1 
9.0 
8.6 
6.5 
16.6 
16.0 



11.6 
25.4 
16.4 

8.7 



Per cent 
Fat 



14.1 

24.9 
27.9 
26.4 
18.6 



15.8 

5.3 
21.5 
12.1 

12.7 
26.7 
19.7 

8.4 
6.1 
4.1 

20.0 



1.0 
1.2 
1.0 

.4 
2.0 

.5 



1.5 
2.5 
1.8 
1.1 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



1.6 
2.5 
2.0 
4.2 
1.2 
1.0 



.9 

.4 

4.1 



Per cent 
Ash 



4.1 

12.0 

13.8 

12.9 

3.0 



4.0 

1.8 
3.5 
2.6 

5.6 
5.7 
5.6 

6.7 
3.7 
1.7 

4.3 



1.2 
1.0 



2.0 
3.0 
2.6 
2.7 
3.1 
1.3 



1.6 
4.0 
2.2 
1.9 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1,065 

1,345 
1,485 
1,435 
1,195 



1,185 

675 

1,270 

915 

1,000 
1,520 
1,260 

870 
670 
575 

1,300 



255 
355 

295 

175 
225 
200 



225 
255 
240 
215 
415 
340 



345 
555 
390 

285 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMKIUCAN FOODS 725 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— ron. 

Shelljish, fresh 
Oysters, in slidl: 

Miiiiimim 

Maxiinuin 

Average* 

Oysters, solids, as pur- 
chased : 

MiiiiinuiM 

Maxiiiium 

Average 

Scallops, JUS purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Terrapin 

Turtle, green, whole 

Shellfish, etc., canned 
Clams, long, as purchased. 
Cliims, round, as pur- 
chased 

Crabs, as purchased: 

MiniiTium 

Maxiiiium 

Average 

Lobster, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Oysters, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shrimp, as purchased . . 

Eggs 
Hens', uncooked*: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hens', boiled: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

As purchased 



Pcrcont 
WaUr 



S1.7 
Jn.4 
Sfi.9 



.S2.2 
92.4 
88.3 

77.8 
82.8 
80.3 
74.5 
79.8 

84.5 

82.9 

78.9 
8L0 
80.0 

76.2 
79.4 

77.8 

78.1 
86.0 
83.4 
70.8 



07.2 
75.8 
73.7 

68.6 
79.9 
73.2 
65.0 



Per cent 
Protein 



Percent 
Fat 



4.2 

lO.U 

0.2 



7.3 
6.G 

14.5 
15.1 
14.8 
21.2 
19.8 

9.0 

10.5 

15.6 
16.0 
15.8 

16.7 
19.5 
18.1 

7.0 
13.0 

8.8 
25.4 



11.6 
16.0 
13.4 

10.0 
15.6 
13.2 
11.7 



.0 
1.9 
1.2 



LS 
1.3 



.3 

.1 

3.5 

.5 

1.3 

.8 

.8 
2.3 
1.5 

.5 
1.7 
1.1 

2.0 
3.4 
2.4 
1.0 



8.6 
15.1 
10.5 

9.1 
14.7 
12.0 
10.7 



PBTOBIli 

Carbo- 



iyoHitCiaori«ajori» 



l.K 
6.7 
3.7 



L5 
0.2 
3.3 

1.1 
5.0 
3.4 



2.9 

3.0 

.7 
.8 
.7 

.5 
.6 
.5 

2.0 

5.2 

3.9 

.2 



Aih 



1.2 
2.8 
2.0 



.7 
2.5 
1.1 

1.3 
L5 
1.4 
1.0 
1.2 

2.3 

2.8 

1.8 
2.1 
2.0 

2.1 

2.8 

.5 

1.2 
1.9 
1.5 
2.6 



.6 
1.0 
1.0 



FtiL VAum 



135 
370 
236 



135 
325 
230 

305 
385 

345 
545 
390 

275 

285 

340 
410 
370 

345 
445 
300 

280 
310 
335 
520 



660 
910 
720 

575 
880 
765 
680 



100 



30 
82 
52 



30 
72 
51 

67 

85 

76 

121 

86 

61 

63 

53 
91 

S2 



98 
86 

62 

68 

74 

115 



146 
202 
160 

127 
195 
170 
151 



^ i'-ggs are diflicult of analysis and the diwrepancy between the protein by factor 
and by difference may be due in part to inct^mplete determination of nitrojppn and fat. 
It is also probable that the factor 0.25 is not correct for efQFS. The value of protein 
by difference is perhaps the more nearly correct and has been used in the coroputatioA 

of the fuel value per pound. 



'26 



AISTALYSTS OF AMERTCAN^ FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 

Eggs 
Hens', boiled whites: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hens', boiled yolks: 

Minimum 

Maximimi 

Average 

Dairy Products, etc. 

Butter, as purchased 

Buttermilk, as purchased . 
Cheese, American, pale, as 

purchased 

Cheese, American, red, as 

purchased 

Cheese, Boudon, as pur- 
chased 

Cheese, California flat, as 

purchased 

Cheese, Cheddar, as pur- 
chased 

Cheese, Cheshire, as pur- 
chased 

Cheese, cottage, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximmn 

Average 

Cheese, Crown brand 

cream, as purchased. . 
Cheese, Dutch, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum. 

Maximum 

Average 

Cheese, Fromage de Brie, 

as purchased 

Cheese, full cream, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cheese, imitation full 
cream, Ohio, as pur- 
chased 

Cheese, imitation old Eng- 
lish, as purchased 



Per cent 
Water 



83.1 
87.1 
86.2 

48.4 
50.2 
49.5 



11.0 
91.0 

31.6 

28.6 

55.2 

34.0 

27.4 

37.1 



67.0 
77.0 
72.0 

31.4 



27.6 
42.7 
35.2 

60.2 



27.0 
44.1 
34.2 



37.9 
20.7 



Per cent 
Protein 



11.6 
14.8 
12.3 

15.3 
16.8 
15.7 



1.0 
3.0 

28.8 



15.4 
24.3 

27.7 
26.9 



16.1 
25:7 
20.9 

5.2 



15.9 



17.9 
37.0 
25.9 



30.1 



Per cent 
Fat 



.3 
.2 

32.2 
34.4 
33.3 



85.0 
.5 

35.9 

38.3 

20.8 

33.4 

36.8 

30.7 



.4 
1.6 
1.0 

58.0 



16.3 
19.0 
17.7 

21.0 



24.5 
44.6 
33.7 



31.7 
42.7 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



4.8 
.3 

1.6 

4.5 

4.1 

.9 



3.7 
4.9 
4.3 

2.2 



1.4 



1.2 
4.0 
2.4 



1.3 



Per cent 

Ash 



.4 

1.0 

.6 

1.0 
1.4 
1.1 



3.0 
3.7 

3.4 

3.5 

7.0 

3.8 

4.0 

4.4 



1.6 
2.0 

1.8 

3.2 



8.7 
11.4 
10.0 

1.5 



2.5 
4.9 
3.8 



4.5 
5.2 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



235 
295 
250 

1,685 
1,745 
1,705 



3,605 
165 

2,055 

2,165 

1,195 

1,945 

2,145 

1,810 



435 

585 
510 

2,585 



1,240 
1,630 
1,435 



1,210 



1,790 
2,430 
1,950 



1,820 
2,385 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



CHEMICAL CO:yiPOSITIOX OF AMERICAN FOODS 727 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Con. 
Dairy Produda, etc. 

Cheese, Limburger, as pur- 
chased 



Cheese, Neufch&tel, 
purchased : 

Mininunn 

Maxhnum 

Average 



as 



Cheese, partly skimmed 
milk, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cheese, pineapple, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per cent 
Water 



Cheese, Roquefort, as pur- 
chased 



Cheese, skimmed milk, 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



as 



Cheese, Swiss, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cream, as purchased: 

Cheese, Whole Milk {sa 

full cream cheese) 
Kumiss, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Milk, condensed, sweet- 
ened, as purchased . 

Maximum 

Average 



42.1 



42.7 
57.2 
50.0 



34.8 
42.0 
38.2 



11.6 
31.0 
23.0 



39.3 



37.3 
53.1 
45.7 



28.9 
33.8 
31.4 
74.0 



88.8 
90.0 
89.3 



21.6 
37.3 
26.9 



Per cent 
Prot<«in 



2:^0 



15.1 
22.3 
18.7 



23.5 
27.6 
25.4 



27.0 
34.5 
29.9 



22.6 



26.3 
38.4 
31.5 



26.1 

29.1 

27.6 

2.5 



2.6 
3.0 

2.8 



6.0 

10.5 

8.8 



l*f'r cent 
Fat 



Percent 
Carbo- 
hydratei 



2<».4 



•22.3 
32.5 
27.4 



23.7 
.34.5 
29.5 



33.3 
45.2 
38.9 



29.5 



6.8 
27.8 
16.4 



33.2 
36.7 
34.9 
18.5 



1.7 
2.4 
2.1 



.4 

10.6 

8.3 



P» eeot Cakiriea Cdoriai 



.2 
2.9 
1.5 



2.3 
4.9 
3.6 



2.2 
3.1 
2.6 



1,8 



9.0 
2.2 



.9 
1.7 
1.3 
4.5 



5.1 
5.9 
5.4 



44.4 

56.9 
M.l 



Aah 



5.1 



2.3 
2.5 
2.4 



3.2 
3.4 
3.3 



5.1 
6.2 
6.6 



6.8 



2.4 
5.1 
4.2 



4.4 
5.2 

4.8 
.5 



1.5 
2.1 
1.9 



PuBL Vaum 



per 
Pbund 



1.075 



1^6 
1.790 
1,630 



1,680 
1,970 
1,786 



1,906 
2.600 
2,246 



1,700 



1,090 
1,740 
1,320 



1,920 

2,105 

2.010 

910 



216 
266 
240 



1,270 
1,650 
1,620 



100 
GruM 



372 



397 
340 



361 
437 
396 



436 
677 
498 



377 



242 
388 
293 



426 
487 
440 
202 



47 
68 
63 



300 
337 



728 



Al^ALYSIS OF AMEKICAISr FOODS 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL FOOD— Cow. 

Cheese, Whole Milk (see 

full cream cheese) 

Milk, condensed, unsweet- 
ened, evaporated cream, 
as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Milk, skimmed, as pur- 
chased 

Milk, whole, as purchased. 
Whey, as purchased 

Miscellaneous 
Gelatin, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Calf's foot jelly, as pur- 
chased 

Isinglass, sturgeon, as pur- 

ctiased 

Spinal column, sturgeon, 

as purchased 

Lard, refined, as purchased 
Lard, imrefined, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tallow, refined, as pur- 
chased 

Cottolene, as purchased.... 

Oleomargarin, as pur- 
chased 

Beef juice, as purchased. . . 



Per cent 
Water 



66.3 
69.6 
68.2 



90.5 
87.0 
93.0 



9.6 
15.4 
13.6 



77.6 
19.0 
17.7 



3.1 
6.6 

4.8 



9.5 
93.0 



Per cent 
Protein 



8.6 

10.5 

9.6 



3.4 
3.3 
1.0 



89.3 
97.5 
91.4 



4.3 

89.3 
59.8 



1.7 
2.9 
2.2 



1.2 
4.9 



Per cent 
Fat 



7.8 

10.4 

9.3 



.3 

4.0 

.3 



1.6 

17.1 
100.0 



72.0 
95.9 
94.0 



100.0 
100.0 

83.0 
.6 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



10.4 
12.2 
11.2 



5.1 
5.0 
5.0 



17.4 



.8 



Per cent 
Ash 



1.5 
2.1 
1.7 



1.4 
4.4 
2.1 



.7 
2.0 
4.6 



6.3 
1.5 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



740 
835 

780 



170 
325 
125 



1,660 
1,830 
1,705 



405 

1,730 

1,850 
4,220 



3,895 
4,065 
4,010 



4,220 
4,220 

3,525 
155 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



164 
185 
173 



37 

72 
27 



368 
406 

378 



90 

384 

411 
937 



865 
903 
891 



937 
937 

783 
34 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS 729 





Por 
cent 
Water 


Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 


Per 

rent 
Fat 


Per 

cent 

Car- 

bohy- 

dralM> 


Per 
cent 
Fiber* 


Per 

cent 
Aih 


Fuel Valub 


Food Materials 


Calarioi 
pSmd 


Caloriw 
per 100 
OfinM 


VEGETABLE FOOD 

Flours, Meals, ek. 

Barley, granvilatod 

Barley meal ami flour: 
Minimum 


10.9 

9.9 
13.6 
11.9 

9.8 
12.9 
11.5 

11.2 
17.6 
13.6 

10.6 
11.2 
10.9 

9.8 
13.6 
11.6 

12.0 
13.0 
12.6 

8.8 
17.9 
12.5 

10.9 
12.4 
11.6 

9.2 
10.8 
10.3 


7.6 

9.0 
12.7 
10.5 

7.0 
lO.l 

8.5 

3.9 

10.4 

6.4 

3.3 

4.8 
4.1 

5.5 
11.1 

8.2 

5.9 
8.5 
7.1 

6.7 

11.6 

9.2 

7.8 
9.3 
8.4 

6.5 
8.0 
7.5 


.9 

1.5 
3.2 
2.2 

.7 
1.5 
1.1 

.5 
2.3 
1.2 

.3 
.6 
.4 

.3 
1.4 
1.2 

1.0 
1.8 
1.3 

1.0 
5.3 
1.9 

4.5 
5.2 
4.7 

3.5 
4.5 
4.2 


79.8 

70.4 
74.5 

72.8 

77.3 

78.1 
77.8 

71.6 
81.5 
77.9 

83.4 
84.8 
84.1 

70.1 
77.3 
73.4 

76.9 
79.6 

78.4 

68.4 
80.6 
75.4 

71.9 
75.4 
74.0 

55.7 
72.2 
65.9 


.7 

6.9 
7.0 

(3)6^ 

(1) i 

.2 

.7 

(8) .4 

.1 
.3 
.2 

(1) .4 

.6 

1.2 

.9 

(1)1.0 


.9 

1.6 
3.8 
2.6 

.6 
L6 
LI 

.6 

1.8 

.9 

.4 
.6 
.6 

4.4 

7.0 
5.6 

.5 

.8 
.6 

.5 
1.9 
1.0 

1.2 
1.4 
1.3 

1.0 
1.3 
1.2 


1,660 

1,685 
1,680 
1,640 

1,636 
1,676 
1,660 

1,660 
1,650 
1,620 

1,660 
1,666 
1,660 

1,616 
1,600 
1,570 

1,630 
1,666 
1,646 

1,550 
1,720 
1,655 

1,720 
1,740 
1,730 

1,305 
1,670 
1,645 


968 
341 


Maximum 


373 


Average 


364 


Barley, pearled: 

Minimum 


363 


Maximum 


372 


Average 


366 


Buckwheat flour: 

Minimum 


346 


Maximum. 


366 


Average 


360 


Buckwheat preparations : 
Farina and groats: 
Minimum 


366 


Maximum 


370 


Average 


368 


Self-raising: 

Minimum 


336 


Maximum 


365 


Average.. 


348 


Corn flour': 

Minimum 


362 


Minimum 


370 


Average. 


366 


Corn meal, granular*: 
Minimum 


344 


Maximum 


382 


Average 


367 


Corn meal, unbolted: 
Minimum 


382 


Maximum 


3B6 


Average 


384 


Corn meal, unbolted: 
As purchased: 

TVTinimum 


290 


Maximum 


371 


Averafire 


343 







1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 

3 Average of 77 analyses of corn meal used for fodder gives water 15. protein 8 0, 
fat 3.8, carbohydrates 68*7, fiber 1.9, and ash 1.4 per cent, and fuel value 1,610 calorie*. 

4 The ash of one sample contained 0.185 per cent pho«phoru«. 



730 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 

cent 
Water 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates^ 



Per 
cent 
Fiber2 



Per 

cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD- 
Con. 
Flours, Meals, etc. 
Pop Corn: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Corn preparations: 
Cerealine^: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hominy: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Hominy, cooked 

Parched : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Kafir corn 

Oatmeal*: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Oatmeal, boiled 

Oatmeal gruel: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Oatmeal water: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Oats, other preparations 
Rolled oats: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Miscellaneous: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Analyses, average 



4.1 
4.4 
4.3 



9.5 
11.0 
10.3 

9.2 
13.4 
11.8 
79.3 

4.9 

5.6 

5.2 

16.8 

2.0 

8.8 

7.3 

84.5 

87.5 
95.7 
91.6 

94.0 
98.1 
96.0 



5.5 
11.2 

7.7 

6.4 
9.2 
7.9 

7.8 



10.3 
11.1 
10.7 



9.1 
9.9 
9.6 

6.3 
9.5 
8.3 
2.2 

11.1 

11.8 

11.5 

6.6 

12.9 
20.8 
16.1 

2.8 

.9 
1.6 
1.2 



13.6 
19.1 
16.7 

13.7 
18.4 
16.3 
16.5 



4.7 
5.4 
5.0 



.9 
1.3 
1.1 

.2 

1.0 

.6 

.2 

8.2 
8.7 
8.4 
3.8 

6.0 

8.8 

7.2 

.5 

.2 
.5 
.4 

.1 
.1 
.1 



5.6 
8.8 
7.3 

6.1 
8.2 
7.3 
7.3 



78.6 

78.7 
78.7 



76.6 
79.2 

78.3 

77.3 
81.4 
79.0 

17.8 

71.1 
73.4 
72.3 
70.6 

63.8 
70.2 
67.5 
11.5 

2.9 
9.6 
6.3 

1.3 
4.5 

2.9 



62.8 
70.8 
66.2 

63.9 
70.5 
66.8 
66.5 



1.3 
1.4 
1.4 



.2 

.7 
(4) .4 

.2 
1.0 

(12).9 



1.1 

.6 
1.2 

(9) .6 



1.2 
1.4 

(2)1.3 

.6 
1.7 

(20) .9 
(22)1.0 



1.3 
1.4 
1.3 



.2 
2.3 

.7 

.1 

.7 
.3 
.5 

1.7 
3.5 
2.6 
2.2 

1.5 
2.2 
1.9 

.7 

.3 
.8 
.5 

.1 
.5 
.3 



1.6 
4.7 
2.1 

1.3 
1.9 
1.7 
1.9 



1,870 
1,880 
1,875 



1,635 
1,710 
1,680 

1,610 

1,700 

1,650 

380 

1,895 
1,930 
1.915 
1,595 

1,810 
1,875 
1,650 

285 

80 
230 
155 

35 

105 

70 



1,755 

1,885 
1,850 

1,830 
1,890 
1,855 
1,850 



415 
417 
416 



363 
380 
373 

357 
377 
366 

84 

421 

428 
425 
354 

402 

416 

366 

63 

17 
51 
34 

7 
23 
15 



390 
418 
411 

406 
420 
412 
411 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 

8 The ash of one sample contained 0.102 per cent phosphorus. 
*The ash of one sample contained 0.414 per cent phosphorus. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMEHICAX FOODS 731 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE POOD— 
C(m. 
Flours, Meals, etc. 
Rice: 

Miiiiinum 

Maxiinuin 

AveruKo 

Rice, boiled: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rice, flaked: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rice flour: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rye flour: 

Minimum 

Maxim mn 

Average 

Rye meal 

Wheat flour, California, 
fine: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat flour, Califor- 
nia: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat flour, gluten: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat flour, Graham: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat flour, prepared 
(self-raising) : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per 

cent 
WaUT 



9.1 
14.0 
12.3 

52.7 

82.7 
72.5 

9.4 
9.7 
9.5 

3.7 
10.9 

8.5 

11.9 
13.6 
12.9 
11.4 



12.4 
15.6 
13.8 



6.4 
13.1 
11.4 

10.5 
13.0 
12.0 

9.9 
13.7 
11.3 



8.0 
13.0 
10.8 



Per 

wnt 
Pro- 
tcin 



5.9 

11.3 

8.0 

1.6 
5.0 

2.8 

7.5 
8.3 
7.9 

4.7 

12.0 

8.6 

4.9 

8.8 

6.8 

13.6 



7.2 

8.8 
7.9 



12.2 
14.6 
13.8 

12.8 
15.0 
14.2 



Per 

wnt 

Fat 



1.7 

10.4 

6.1 



1.3 

.9 

2.0 



1.2 
1.6 
1.4 



1.5 
2.1 
1.9 

1.1 
2.4 

1.8 



Per 

cent 

Car- 

liohy- 

dntM* 



8.5 


1.5 


17.7 


3.6 


13.3 


2.2 


8.0 


.6 


13.3 


2.2 


10.2 


1.2 



76.4 
81.9 
79.0 

15.5 
41.9 
24.4 

81.4 
82.2 
81.9 

58.3 
79.2 
68.0 

77.6 
80.2 
78.7 
71.5 



73.9 
77.8 
76.4 



69.5 
77.0 



69.6 
72.8 
71.1 

66.0 
75.8 
71.4 



67.4 
78.6 
73.0 



Per 
oeoi 
FlbeH 



.4 

(I3).2 



.1 
.2 
.2 

9.1 
28.3 
16.1 

.4 
.5 

(4) .4 
1.8 



.5 

1.2 

(3) .9 



.6 
(1) .6 

1.8 

2.0 

(3)1.9 



.4 

.5 

(3) .4 



Pfer 
ooni 
Aah 



jCaloriMCalorki 
pv 100 



.2 
.ft 
.4 

.1 

.2 

.3 
.4 

6.6 

10.7 

8.8 

.6 

.9 

.7 

1.5 



.6 
1.5 
1.0 

.5 

1.3 

.9 

1.0 
2.7 
1.8 



1.5 
7.1 

4A 



F01L Vautb 



Pbund 



1,600 
1,600 
1.630 

330 
87ft 
ftlO 

1,680 
1.090 
L68ft 

L63ft 
1,765 
1,680 

1.615 
1,650 
1,630 
1,66ft 



1,590 
1,660 
1,62ft 



1.63ft 
1.760 
1,67ft 

1,63ft 
1,600 
1,66ft 

1.61ft 
1,710 
1,670 



l,ftftO 
1,730 
1.600 



OffWM 



366 

376 
302 

73 
104 
113 

373 
37ft 
374 

368 
302 
373 

3ft8 
366 

363 
370 



3ft3 
368 
361 



363 
301 
372 

368 
37ft 
370 

3ft8 
380 
371 



344 

384 
35ft 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parenthwe*. 

48 



732 



a:n"alysis of ameeica:n' foods 



Food Materials 



Per 

cent 
Water 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



Per 

cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates^ 



Per 
cent 
Fiber- 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con. 

Flours, Meals, etc. 

Wheat flour, patent roll 
er process, baker's 
grade: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat flour, patent roll- 
er process, family 

and straight grade: 
Spring wheat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Winter wheat: 

Minimum. 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat flour, patent roll- 
er process, grade not 
indicated : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat flour, patent roll- 
er process, high 

grade: 
Spring Wheat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Winter wheat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Average of all analyses 
of high and medium 
grades and grade not 

indicated 

Wheat flour, patent roll- 
er process,' low grade : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



10.1 
13.3 
11.9 



10.3 
13.1 
11.9 

11.7 
14.0 
13.1 



8.2 
13.9 
11.5 



14.3 
12.3 

12.1 
14.0 
13.3 



12.0 



9.3 
13.9 
12.0 



10.3 
14.9 
13.3 



9.6 
13.3 
10.9 

10.8 
13.7 
12.3 



8.4 
14.7 
11.4 



8.7 
13.8 
11.7 

9.3 
14.9 
11.0 



11.4 



10.0 
17.9 
14.0 



.9 
2.0 
1.5 



1.0 
1.2 
1.1 

1.0 
1.3 
1.1 



.3 
1.6 
1.0 



.7 
1.9 
1.1 



1.0 
.9 



1.0 



3.9 
1.9 



70.3 
75.5 

72.7 



72.7 
78.5 
75.6 

72.1 
73.7 
73.0 



70.3 
80.0 
75.6 



71.7 

78.1 
74.5 

71.6 
75.5 
74.4 



75.1 



64.2 
75.9 
71.2 



.3 
1.5 

(6) .7 



(1) .1 

.2 

.4 
(4) .3 



.1 
.3 

(15).2 



.1 
.2 

(7) .1 

.2 
.4 
.3 



(41).3 



.5 
.9 

(7) .8 



.5 

2.0 

.9 



1,640 
1,705 
1,665 



1,635 
1,680 
1,655 

1,615 
1,655 
1,635 



1,640 
1,730 
1,660 



1,615 
1,715 
1,650 

1,615 
1,645 
1,625 



1,650 



1,645 
1,735 
1,665 



364 
378 
370 



363 
373 
367 

358 
367 
363 



364 
384 
368 



358 
381 
366 

358 
365 
361 



366 



365 
385 
370 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CliE.MlCAL COilPOSITION OP AMEUICAX FOODS 733 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con. 

Flours, Meals, etc. 

Wheat flour, unclassificKi 

process, jicradc not 

indicated : 
Spring Wheat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Winter wheat: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Undesignated : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

All analyses, average. . 

Wheat preparations 

breakfast foods: 
Cracked and crushed : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Farina: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flaked: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Germs : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Gluten: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Miscellaneous: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per 

cent 
WutiT 



11.4 
13.5 
12.4 

0.0 
14.4 
11.9 

6.7 
11.7 

9.4 
11.4 



8.9 
11.7 
10.1 

6.1 
13.2 
10.9 

7.9 
10.1 

8.7 

9.1 
12.3 
10.4 

6.8 

11.1 

8.9 

3.8 

11.9 

9.4 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



9.6 
12.1 
10.5 

9.5 
12.5 
10.7 

8.7 
11.4 
10.4 
10.6 



9.5 
12.9 
11.1 

10.4 
11.7 
11.0 

9.7 
15.6 
13.4 

8.6 
13.4 
10.5 

12.7 
14.4 
13.6 

10.4 
16.6 
13.1 



Per 

cfnt 
Fat 



.6 
1.3 
1.0 

.4 
1.5 
1.0 

.6 
1.6 
1.2 
1.1 



1.3 
2.2 
1.7 

.8 
3.8 
1.4 

1.1 
1.5 
1.4 

1.2 
2.5 
2.0 

.7 
3.3 
1.7 

1.3 
4.0 
2.1 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
lx)hy- 



73.5 
77.4 
75.4 

73.2 

78.2 
75.8 

75.3 
82.1 

78.4 
76.3 



73.7 
77.2 
75.5 

74.6 

78.5 
76.3 

69.7 
77.8 
74.3 

73.1 
SO.O 
76.0 

69.2 
78.8 
74.6 

70.5 
81.0 
74.1 



Per 

cent 
FIberM 



.6 

.8 
(3) .5 

.2 

.5 

(5) .4 

.3 

1.8 
(3) .9 
(10).2 



1.2 
2.0 

(7)1.7 

.2 
.6 

(7) .4 

1.3 
2.2 
1.8 

.3 
1.2 

(8) .9 

.5 
2.5 
1.3 

.5 
1.6 
(16).9 



Per 
cent 
AiOi 



1.4 
2.2 
1.6 



.7 
.4 

1.2 
3.3 
2.2 

.5 
1.6 
1.1 

.9 
2.0 
1.2 

.9 
1.8 
1.3 



CalorlM Calorie* 



Pu«L Vautk 



per 
Found 



1,610 
1,«50 
1,640 

1.605 
1,680 
1,650 

1,645 
1,760 
1,700 
1,665 



1.645 
1,710 
1,685 

1,630 
1,825 
1,685 

1,640 
1,705 
1,600 

1,665 
1,720 
1,605 

1.695 
1,730 
1,715 

1.665 
1,820 
1,710 



per too 



357 
866 

a64 

366 
373 
386 

366 

301 

377 
370 



365 
380 
374 

362 
405 
374 

364 
378 
375 

370 
382 
376 

376 
384 

381 

370 
400 
380 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



734 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 

cent 
Water 


Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 


6.4 


11.8 


11.5 


15.5 


8.6 


13.6 


7.2 


9.6 


10.7 


11.4 


U 


10.5 


7.0 


7.9 


12.3 


16.6 


10.3 


13.4 


78.4 


3.0 


10.6 


11.7 


10.7 


11.7 


10.7 


11.7 


10.0 


11.2 


11.1 


13.3 


10.6 


12.1 


9.4 


7.9 


12.3 


16.4 


11.0 


10.9 


40.0 


5.0 


47.2 


5.3 


43.6 


5.4 


28.4 


6.5 


48.0 


10.1 


38.9 


7.9 


20.6 


6.4 


44.0 


11.1 


35.7 


9.0 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates^ 



Per 
cent 
Fiber2 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con. 

Flours, Meals, etc. 

Wheat preparations, 

breakfast foods: 

Parched and toasted: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Shredded: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wheat preparations : 
Macaroni : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Macaroni, cooked . . . . 
Noodles: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Spaghetti: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Vermicelli: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bread, Crackers, Pastry, 

etc. 
Bread, brown, as pur- 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bread, com (johnny- 
cake) : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bread, rye, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



.9 
3.7 
2.4 

1.3 
1.6 
1.4 



4.9 

.9 

1.5 

.5 
1.5 
1.0 



1 



.3 
5.2 
2.0 



1.2 
2.4 

1.8 



2.3 
9.8 
4.7 

.1 

1.4 

.6 



72.3 
76.9 
74.5 

75.0 
79.7 
77.9 



67.2 

78.4 
74.1 
15.8 

74.7 
76.6 
75.6 

74.9 
77.1 
76.3 

66.7 
76.5 
72.0 



43.6 
50.7 
47.1 



40.3 
54.3 
46.3 

45.6 
65.8 
53.2 



.1 
1.4 



(3)1.7 



.3 
.4 
.4 

.5 

.7 
(2).4 



.1 
1.0 

(9).5 



.2 



1.4 
3.3 

2.1 



.3 
7.0 
1.3 
1.3 

.5 
1.5 
1.0 

.6 
.7 
.6 

.5 

6.8 
4.1 



1.9 
2.2 
2.1 



.8 
4.1 
2.2 

.6 

2.7 
1.5 



1,660 
1,800 
1,740 

1,670 
1,720 
1,700 



1,540 

1,775 

1,665 

415 

1,665 
1,670 
1,665 

1,645 
1,680 
1,660 

1,540 
1,730 
1,625 



970 
1,135 
1,050 



975 
1,330 
1,205 

1,020 
1,440 
1,180 



368 
400 
386 

371 
382 
377 



342 
394 
370 

92 

370 
371 
370 

365 
373 

368 

342 
384 
361 



215 
252 
233 



216 
295 
267 

226 
320 
262 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMKHICAN FOODS 735 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 

Bread, Crackers, Pastry, 
eic. 

Broad, rj^, whole, as 
purchiused : 

Miniimim 

Maximum 

Average 



Bread, rye and wheat, as 
purchased 



Bread, wheat: 

Buns, as purchased. . . 
Buns, cinnamon, as 

purchased 

Buns, currant, as 

purchased 

Buns, hot cross, as 

purchased 

Buns, sugar, as pur- 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Gluten bread, as pur- 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Graham bread, as pur- 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Biscuits, home-made 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Biscuits, Maryland, as 
purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per 
cent 
Wate 



49.8 
51.6 
50.7 



35.3 

29.0 
23.6 
27.5 
36.7 



26.6 
35.3 
29.6 



34.8 
43.1 
38.2 



27.8 
42.4 
35.7 



30.7 
34.7 
32.9 



24.2 
25.0 
24.6 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
U'in 



11.8 
12.0 
11.9 



11.9 

6.3 
9.4 
6.7 
7.9 



7.6 

8.4 
8.1 



8.2 

11.1 

9.3 



6.8 

10.9 

8.9 



7.8 

10.2 

8.7 



7.5 
9.3 

8.4 



Per 

cent 
Fttt 



.3 



Ptt 
cent 
Cor- 

Uihy- 
dratce* 



35.0 
36.8 
35.9 



51.5 



6.5 


57.3 


7.2 


59.1 


7.6 


57.6 


4.8 


49.7 


4.5 
9.4 
6.9 


49.0 
58.5 
54.2 


.7 
2.4 
1.4 


44.6 
5:3.0 
49.8 


.4 
3.8 
1.8 


38.6 
59.1 
52.1 


2.0 
3.3 
2.6 


53.7 
56.6 
55.3 


4.3 
6.8 
5.6 


59.3 
61.0 
60.1 



Per 
cent 
Fiberi 



FtntL Vauhe 



Pfer 

eent |Caloriai|Caloriet 



.8 
1.6 
1.2 



.4 



l.l 



(1).3 



.6 

.8 

(11)1.1 



.4 
.9 

(2).7 



.6 
2.1 
1.3 



1.0 

.0 
.7 
.6 
.9 



.8 
1.6 
1.2 



.8 
2.2 
1.3 



.7 
3.0 
1.5 



1.2 
1.4 
1.3 



Pbund 



per 100 
Onyne 



806 
030 
015 



1,190 

1,466 
1,575 
1,515 
1,275 



1,340 
1,575 
1,450 



1,065 
1,210 
1,160 



880 
1,350 
1,210 



1,280 
1,326 
1,300 



1,400 
1,530 
1,510 



108 
206 
203 



264 

323 
350 
336 
283 



207 
350 
322 



241 
268 
257 



105 
300 



284 
204 



331 
317 
335 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



736 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 

Bread, Crackers, Pastnj, 
etc. 

Bread, wheat: 

Rolls, French, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rolls, plain, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Rolls, Vienna, as pur- 
chased 

Rolls, water, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Toasted bread, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

White bread, biscuit, 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

White bread, butter, 
as purchased .... 
White bread, cheap 
grade, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

White bread, cream, 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maxunum 

Average 



Per 
cent 
Water 



31.9 
32.2 
32.0 



18.4 
28.4 
25.2 



31.7 



31.2 
34.0 
32.6 



15.3 
28.6 
24.0 



31.2 
39.7 
35.2 

32.2 



27.9 
40.7 
33.2 



29.3 
38.2 
33.2 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



8.0 
9.0 

8.5 



8.6 

11.9 

9.7 



8.5 



8.5 
9.6 
9.0 



10.6 
12.8 
11.5 



7.6 
8.3 
8.0 

7.9 



8.7 
16.3 
10.9 



6.5 
15.4 

9.8 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



Per 

cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates' 



2.3 
2.7 
2.5 



.4 
9.4 
4.2 



2.2 



2.0 
3.9 
3.0 



.o 
3.2 
1.6 



.6 
2.1 
1.4 

1.1 



.5 
2.1 
1.3 



.2 

1.9 

.9 



55.2 
56.2 
55.7 



56.7 
64.7 
59.9 



56.5 



52.5 

55.8 
54.2 



56.7 
67.1 
61.2 



50.1 

58.8 
54.3 

57.7 



44.3 
60.4 
53.6 



50.8 
60.9 
55.0 



Per 
cent 
Fiber2 



.3 
.3 

(2).3 

.4 



.3 
.3 

(2).3 

.4 



.2 

,(1).2 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



1.2 
1.3 
1.3 



.7 
1.4 
1.0 



1.1 



1.1 
1.4 
1.2 



1.4 
2.0 
1.7 



.5 
1.4 
1.1 

1.1 



1.0 
1.3 
1.0 



.8 
1.6 
1.1 



Fuel Value 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



1,290 
1,310 
1,300 



1,340 
1,635 
1,470 



1,300 



1,300 
1,300 
1,300 



1,340 
1,620 
1.420 



1,110 
1,295 
1,220 

1,265 



1,105 
1,370 
1,255 



1,150 
1,335 
1,245 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS 737 





Per 
cent 
Water 


Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 


Per 

cent 
Fat 


Per 

cent 

Car- 

iHihy- 

iratoi* 


OCRt 

Fiber' 


P» 

cent 


F^iBL VAum 


Food Materials 


CAlorkiCtloriai 

per per 100 

Pound Grane 


VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con. 
Bread, Crackers, Pastry, 

etc. 
Bread, wheat: 

White bread, honu»- 
made, as pur- 
chased: 
Minimum 


29.8 
40.4 
35.0 

34.1 
39.8 
36.5 

25.8 
49.1 
35.6 

33.1 
40.5 
36.6 

31.1 
40.4 
35.8 

33.2 
35.4 
34.6 

27.1 
39.7 
34.2 

32.3 
51.0 
38.4 


6.8 

11.0 

9.1 

^ 8.8 

10.8 

^ 9.6 

7.0 

13.9 

9.3 

8.5 
9.9 
9.1 

7.0 
9.8 
1.1 

9.0 
9.6 
9.3 

8.1 

11.0 

9.4 

8.1 

11.7 

9.7 


.4 
3.5 
1.6 

.3 

2.8 
1.4 

3.7 
1.2 

.6 
2.1 

1.2 

.8 
1.8 
1.1 

.6 
1.5 
1.0 

.1 
3.8 
1.2 

.4 

2.7 

.9 


47.6 
58.0 
53.3 

49.0 
53.7 
51.1 

42.0 
61.5 
52.7 

48.8 
55.3 
52.1 

49.1 
58.1 
53.7 

52.4 
56.2 
54.1 

48.4 
60.3 
54.1 

37.2 
56.2 
49.7 


.1 
.3 

(2) .2 

.3 
.9 

(8) .5 

.3 

(3) .3 

(1) .2 

.2 
.9 

(9) .5 

(i)V.2 


.4 

2.0 
1.0 

.9 
2.0 
1.4 

.6 
3.0 
1.2 

.8 
1.3 
1.0 

.9 
1.3 
1.1 

.8 
1.3 
1.0 

.9 
1.5 
1.1 

.8 
1.9 
1.3 


1.115 
1,360 
1,225 

MIO 
1,235 
1,190 

040 
1,415 
1,205 

1,095 
1,245 
1,190 

1,230 
1,305 
1,200 

1,200 
1,245 
1,220 

1,1 iO 
1,380 
1,230 

805 
1,260 
1,140 


247 


Maximum 


302 


Average 


272 


White bread, milk, as 
purchased: 
Minimum 


246 


Maximum 


274 


Average 


264 


White bread, miscel- 
laneous, as pur- 
chased: 
Minimum 


206 


Maximum 


314 


Average 


267 


White bread, New 
England, as pur- 
chased: 
Minimum 


243 


Maximum 


276 


Average 


264 


White bread, Quaker, 
as purchased: 
Minimum 


273 


Maximum 


290 


Average 


266 


White bread, split, as 
purchased: 
Minimum 


266 


Maximum 


276 


Average 


271 


White bread, Vienna, 
as purchased: 
Minimum 


246 


Maximum 


306 


Average 


273 


Whole wheat bread, as 
purchased: 
IVfinimum 


198 
280 
253 


Maximum 


Averacre 







1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheaea. 



738 



A^^ALYSIS OF AMEKICA:N" FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 

cent 
Water 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates^ 



Per 
cent 
Fiber2 



Per 

cent 
Ash 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Fuel Value 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con. 
Bread, Crackers, Pastry, 

etc. 
Bread, wheat: 

Zwieback, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Crackers: 
Boston (split) crack 
ers, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Butter crackers, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cream crackers, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Egg crackers, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Flatbread, as pur- 
chased: 

"Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Graham crackers, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Oatmeal crackers, 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



5.0 

7.7 
5.8 



6.8 
8.2 
7.5 



5.2 
9.5 

7.2 



4.3 

8.9 
6.8 



5.4 
6.3 

5.8 



9.4 

10.5 

9.8 



3.1 

8.4 
5.4 



4.9 

7.8 
6.3 



8.6 

11.7 

9.8 



10.7 
11.3 
11.0 



9.2 

11.2 

9.6 



8.6 

11.2 

9.7 



12.4 
12.8 
12.6 



13.5 
15.6 
14.9 



7.4 
14.4 
10.0 



10.4 
13.1 
11.8 



8.1 

11.3 

9.9 



7.1 
9.9 

8.5 



8.0 
13.6 
10.1 



10.7 
13.8 
12.1 



11.9 
16.0 
14.0 



1.1 

13.6 

9.4 



8.5 
13.7 
11.1 



72.1 
74.2 
73.5 



73.4 
71.1 



76.3 
69.4 
71.6 



68.0 
72.4 
69.7 



63.7 
69.5 
66.6 



72.7 
75.3 
73.6 



69.7 

77.2 
73.8 



68.3 
69.6 
69.0 



(1) .^ 



.3 
.4 

(2) .4 



.2 
1.1 

(5) .6 



.6 
2.4 

(2)1.5 



(1)1.9 



1.0 
1.0 



1.4 
2.4 
1.9 



.9 
2.4 
1.5 



1.1 
2.6 
1.7 



1.2 
1.0 



.5 
1.5 
1.2 



1.2 
1.9 
1.4 



1.4 
2.3 

1.8 



1,915 
2,015 
1,970 



1,875 
1,895 

1,885 



1,840 
2,250 
1,935 



1,945 
2,080 
1,990 



2,100 
2,025 
2,060 



1,660 
1,675 
1,665 



1,705 
2,050 
1,955 



1,870 
2,065 
1,970 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION «.i AMEHK^VX FOODS 



rau 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con, 
Bread, Crackers, Pwttnj, 

etc. 
Crackers: 
Oyster crackers, as 
purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pilot bread, as i)ur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pretzels, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Saltines, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Soda crackers, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Water crackers, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cracker meal, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cake: 

Baker's cake, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chocolate layer cake, 
as purchased 



Per 

ct»nt 
Water 



3.8 
6.5 

4.8 



7.9 
9.9 

8.7 

8.1 

11.0 

9.6 

4.6 
6.7 
5.6 



3.7 

8.4 
5.9 



4.7 
9.5 
6.4 



9.2 
9.3 
9.2 



28.3 
34.4 
31.4 

20.5 



Per 

cent 
IVo. 
tcin 



9.1 
17.3 
11.3 



10.4 
12.4 
11.1 

9.1 

10.3 

9.7 

9.9 
11.2 
10.6 



8.8 

10.7 

9.8 



10.4 
12.5 
11.7 



9.6 
12.2 
10.9 



4.6 
8.0 
6.3 

6.2 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



Pbr 

cent 

Car- 

boby. 

dr«t«t> 



1.S 
10..') 



io!2 

5.0 

3.9 
3.9 
3.9 

12.7 
12.S 



7.7 

10.0 

9.1 



.2 

10.1 
5.0 



.6 

11.3 

6.0 



3.4 
5.9 
4.6 

8.1 



69.1 
77.5 
70.5 



70.3 
78.0 
74.2 

71.1 
74.5 

72.8 

67.1 
69.9 
68.5 



70.5 
75.4 
73.1 



72.9 
80.8 
75.7 



68.3 
77.4 
72.9 



53.3 
60.5 
56.9 

64.1 



Per 
oent 
nbeH 



(1) .2 



.3 
.3 

(2) .3 

.4 
.5 
(2) .6 

.3 
.6 
.5 



(1) .3 



Per 
cent 
Airii 



CalorkiCdoriM 



.9 
5.9 
2.9 



.9 
1.1 
1.0 

3.2 
4.9 
4.0 

2.3 

2.8 
2.6 



1.8 
2.6 
2.1 



.5 
2.0 
1.2 



.5 
1.6 
1.0 



.7 
.9 

.8 

1.1 



Fuel Vauju 



Pound 



i,a55 

2,055 
1,905 



1,665 
1,930 
1,800 

1,655 
1,740 
1,700 

1,995 
2,025 
2,005 



1,850 
1,980 
1,925 



1,730 
1,910 
1,835 



1,600 
1,925 
1,810 



1,285 
1,460 
1,370 

1,650 



per 100 
Qnum 



412 
500 



370 
428 
400 

307 
386 
377 

443 
450 
445 



411 
440 
427 



384 
421 
407 



375 
427 
402 



285 
324 
301 

366 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



740 



AI^ALYSIS OF AMERICA:N' FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 
cent 
Water 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



Per 
cent 
Fiber 



Per 

cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD- 
Con. 

Bread, Crackers, Pas- 
try, etc. 
Cake: 
Coffee cake, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cup cake, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum. 

Maximum 

Average 

Drop cake, as pur- 
chased 

Frosted cake, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Fruit cake, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Gingerbread, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Miscellaneous, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sponge cake, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

All analyses, except 

fruit, as purchased, 

average 



11.0 
32.0 
21.3 



14.8 
16.3 
15.6 



16.6 



11.4 
26.5 

18.2 



14.4 
18.4 
17.3 



16.1 
21.5 

18.8 



12.0 
33.2 
21.9 



6.3 
22.7 
15.3 



19.9 



4.9 
9.0 
7.1 



5.2 
6.6 
5.9 



7.6 



5.0 
7.5 
5.9 



4.8 
6.7 
5.9 



5.4 
6.3 

5.8 



5.1 
7.1 
5.9 



5.7 
7.3 

6.3 



6.3 



4.7 

10.5 

7.5 



2.5 

15.6 

9.0 



14.7 



7.5 

10.6 

9.0 



9.3 
12.6 
10.9 



8.4 
9.5 
9.0 



6.7 
14.7 
10.6 



6.4 
13.0 
10.7 



9.0 



52.4 

78.8 
63.2 



63.2 

73.8 
68.5 



60.3 



58.3 
71.0 
64.8 



60.9 
67.5 
64.1 



62.3 
64.7 
63.5 



53.6 
64.7 
60.1 



57.3 
71.1 
65.9 



63.3 



.2 

.6 

(4) .4 



(1) .3 



.9 
(1) .9 



(7) .4 



.6 

1.1 

.9 



.8 
1.2 
1.0 



1.0 
3.4 
2.1 



1.4 
2.2 

1.8 



1.5 
4.3 
2.9 



1.1 
2.3 
1.5 



1.2 
2.5 

1.8 



1.5 



1,395 
1,820 
1,625 



1,600 
1,920 
1,765 



1,885 



1,545 
1,835 
1,695 



1,720 
1,790 
1,760 



1,630 
1,705 
1,670 



1,380 
1,940 
1,675 



1,665 
1,995 
1,795 



1,675 



310 
404 
361 



355 
426 
392 



418 



343 
407 
37-6 



382 
397 
391 



362 
378 
371 



306 
431 
372 



370 
443 

398 



372 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMKRICAN F(X)I)S 741 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 
Bread, Crackers, Pas- 
try, etc. 
Cookies, cakos, etc.: 
Molasses cookies, as 
purchtised : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sugar cookies, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Fig biscuits or bars, as 

purchased 

Ginger snaps, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Lady fingers, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Miscellaneous cookies, 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maxmium 

Average 

Macaroons, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wafers, miscellaneous, 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Wafers, vanilla, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 



Per 
cent 
WaUr 



Average 6.7 



4.0 

10.2 

6.2 



4.3 
13.3 

8.3 

17.9 



4.3 
9.7 
6.3 



10.5 
21.7 
15.0 



5.5 
19.7 
10.3 



5.9 
27.5 
12.3 



5.3 

8.5 
6.6 



4.8 
9.3 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tcin 



6.0 
9.7 
7.2 



4.5 
8.0 
7.0 

4.6 



5.8 
7.3 
6.5 



6.8 
10.5 

8.8 



4.3 
9.0 
6.7 



3.1 

10.6 

6.5 



7.6 
10.4 

8.7 



5.6 

2.8 
6.6 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



3.9 

11.8 

8.7 



4.8 
16.7 
10.2 

6.6 



2.3 

15.4 

8.6 



3.1 
7.6 
5.0 



4.8 

14.2 

9.6 



9.6 
21.5 
15.2 



2.5 

14.7 

8.6 



6.4 
19.6 
14.0 



Per 

cent 

Car- 

lx>hy- 

dratett 



Ptar 

cent 
Filler' 



70.3 
78.4 
76.7 



69.1 

84.4 
73.2 

69.8 



71.9 
80.8 
76.0 



67.9 
72.9 
70.6 



61.3 
77.3 
72.4 



57.1 
71.4 
65.2 



63.5 
81.3 
74.5 



65.0 
77.9 
71.6 



.3 
2.9 
(3)1.1 

1.7 



.4 

.9 

(5) .7 



.1 

.4 

(2) .2 



.1 

.4 

1.2 



.6 
1.8 
1.1 



.1 
.4 
(5) .3 



P^ 

cent 
Aah 



FvBL VAum 



CalorifliCaloriai 



per 
Pbund 



1.5 
3.0 
2.2 



.6 
3.4 
1.3 



1.1 



1.8 
3.7 
2.6 



.5 
2.3 
1.0 



.4 
1.0 

.8 



.6 
2.9 
1.6 



.5 
1.5 
1.1 



per 100 
Qnuns 



1.725 
1.906 
1,910 



1J16 
2,136 
1,920 

1,660 



1,605 
2,100 
1,805 



1,513 
1,835 
1,685 



1,760 
1,955 
1,876 



1,666 
2,220 
1,976 



1,780 
1.996 
1,910 



1,850 
2.160 
2.016 



383 
443 
424 



381 
474 
426 

368 



376 
466 
421 



336 
407 
374 



391 
434 
416 



347 
493 
438 



306 
448 
424 



411 
477 
464 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



742 



AI^ALYSIS OF AMEPJCA:N" FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 

cent 
Water 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates 1 



Per 
cent 
Fiber 



Per 

cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 

Bread, Crackers, Pas- 
try, etc. 
Cookies, cakes, etc.: 
Wafers, all analyses, as 
purchased, average . 
Miscellaneous cakes, 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Doughnuts, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Jumbles, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pie, apple, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pie, cream, as pur- 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pie, custard, as pur 

chased 

Pie, lemon, as pur- 
chased 

Pie, mince, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pie, raisin, as pur- 
chased 

Pie, squash 

chased. 

Pudding, Indian meal 

as purchased .... 



as pur- 



6.6 



3.2 

17.9 

8.2 



11.0 

25.8 
18.3 

6.7 

24.8 
14.3 



40.2 
45.5 
42.5 



27.8 
37.2 
32.0 

62.4 

47.4 



34.1 
51.1 
41.3 

37.0 

64.2 

60.7 



7.6 



4.2 

13.1 

7.6 



5.1 
7.6 
6.7 

6.3 
7.9 
7.4 



2.6 
3.8 
3.1 



2.1 
5.6 
4.4 

4.2 

3.6 

4.5 
7.5 

5.8 

3.0 
4.4 
5.5 



11.6 



1.7 

17.0 

9.0 



16.4 
25.7 
21.0 

10.9 
15.7 
13.5 



7.7 

11.3 

9.8 



6.9 
17.9 
11.4 

6.3 

10.1 

9.7 
14.5 
12.3 

11.3 

8.4 
4.8 



72.9 



62.9 
84.6 
74.0 



45.8 
63.2 
53.1 

51.9 
72.1 
63.7 



40.3 
46.2 

42.8 



42.3 

55.8 
51.2 

26.1 

37.4 

30.4 
44.0 
38.1 

47.2 

21.7 

27.5 



(10).3 



.2 

.7 
(16).3 



.6 
.3 

(2) .7 

.2 
1.0 

(3) .5 



1.3 



1.9 
1.2 



.4 

1.9 

.9 

.6 
1.3 
1.1 



.9 

2.8 
1.8 



.5 
1.5 
1.0 

1.0 

1.5 

1.3 
4.4 
2.5 

1.5 

1.3 

1.5 



1,985 



1,560 
2,060 
1,900 



1,795 
2,155 
2,000 

1,745 
2,025 
1,890 



1,180 
1,320 
1,270 



441 



346 
457 

422 



398 
478 
444 

387 
450 
420 



262 
293 

282 



1,425 
1,580 
1,515 


316 
351 
336 


830 


184 


1,190 


264 


1,115 
1,535 
1,335 


247 
341 
296 


1,410 


313 


840 


186 


815 


181 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMKHK'AN FOODS 743 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

C07l. 

Bread, Crackers, Pas- 
try, etc. 
Cookies, cakes, etc.: 
Pudding, rice custard, 

as purcliased . 
Pudding, tapioca, as 
purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pudding, tapioca, with 
apples, as pur 

chased 

Sugars, Starches, etc. 
Candy, as purchased.. . . 
Honey, as purchased: 

Minmium 

Maximum , 

Average 

Molasses, cane, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Starch, arrowroot, 

purchased 

Starch, cornstarch, 

purchased 

Starch, manioca, as pur- 
chased 

Starch, sago, as pur- 
chased 

Starch, tapioca, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Sugar, coffee or brown 

sugar, as purchased.. . 

Sugar, granulated sugar, 

as purchased 

Sugar, maple, as pur- 
chased : 
Minimum. . . 
Maximum. . . 
Average 



Per 

cent 
Water 



as 



as 



59.4 



52.0 
71.0 
64.5 



70.1 



14.3 

21.8 
18.2 



19.0 
33.6 
25.1 

2.3 



10.5 
12.2 



10.3 
12.3 
11.4 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



4.0 



2.8 
4.2 
3.3 



.2 

1.1 

.4 



5.1 
2.4 



.5 
9.0 



Per 

CIMlt 

Fat 



Per 

OPflt 
CttT- 

drateii 



ir, 



2.3 
4.8 
3.2 



31.4 



21.9 
38.1 
28.2 



29.3 

96.0 

77.3 
85.4 
81.2 



58.8 
76.7 
69.3 

97.5 

90.0 

88.8 
78.1 

86.6 
89.0 
88.0 

95.0 

100.0 



74.0 
95.2 

82.8 



cont 
Hbcr< 



Ptar 
Ash 



CaloriMdJorki 



.1 
.2 

(5).l 



.6 
7.2 
3.2 

.2 



Fuel Vau/b 



Pbund 



825 



NO 
990 
720 



566 

1,785 

1,450 
1,590 
1,520 

1,180 
1,345 
1,290 

1,815 

1,675 

1,665 

1,635 

1,635 
1,656 
1,650 

1,765 

1,860 



1,375 
1,770 
1,540 



per 100 
GnuM 



183 



126 
220 
160 



123 

396 

322 
353 
337 

262 

298 
286 

403 

372 

370 

363 

363 
368 
366 

392 

413 

305 
393 
342 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parent Iichos. 



744 



ANALYSIS or AMERICA:^ FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 
cent 
Water 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates^ 



Per 

cent 
Fiber2 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 
Sugars, Starches, etc. 
Sugar, powdered, as pur- 
chased 

Sirup, maple, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Vegetables ' 
Artichokes, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Asparagus, fresh, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximmn 

Average 

Asparagus, cooked, as 

purchased 

Beans, butter, green: 

As purchased 

Beans, dried, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beans, frijoles (N. Mex.) 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beans, Lima, dried, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beans, Lima, fresh, 
purchased.^ 



as 



77.5 
8L5 
79.5 



93.6 
94.3 
94.0 

91.6 

29.4 



9.6 
15.5 
12.6 



6.3 
9.9 
7.5 



8.3 
12.2 
10.4 

30.8 



2.2 
2.9 
2.6 



1.6 
2.1 
1.8 

2.1 

4.7 



19.9 
26.6 
22.5 



20.9 
24.4 
21.9 



12.8 
24.5 
18.1 

3.2 



3.3 
.3 



1.4 
3.1 
1.8 



1.0 
1.5 
1.3 



.6 
1.9 
1.5 

.3 



100.0 



81.9 
71.4 





15.3 
18.3 
16.7 


.8 
.9 
.8 


3.6 
3.1 
3.3 


.7 

.8 
.8 


2.2 


.... 


14.6 





57.2 
63.5 
59.6 


3.2 

7.2 

(4)4.4 


60.7 
66.9 
65.1 


.... 


61.6 
70.1 
65.9 





9.9 


.8 



.9 
1.1 
1.0 



.5 
1.0 

.7 



1.0 



2.7 
4.4 
3.5 



4.0 
4.4 
4.2 



3.6 
4.7 
4.1 



.8 



1,860 



855 
1,525 
1,330 



330 
395 
365 



106 
110 
105 

220 

370 



1,540 
1,690 
1,605 



1,625 
1,695 
1,675 



1,600 
1,645 
1,625 

255 



413 



190 
338 
295 



73 

87 
81 



23 
24 
23 

48 

82 



342 
375 
356 



361 
376 
372 



355 
365 
361 

56 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 

« Such vegetables as potatoes, squash, beets, etc., have a certain amount of inedible 
material, skin, seeds, etc. The amount varies with the method of preparing the vege- 
tables and cannot be accurately estimated. The figures given for refuse of vegetables, 
fruits, etc., are assumed to represent approximately the amount of refuse in these 
foods as ordinarily prepared. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS 



745 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con, 

Vegetables 
Beans, mesquite, dry, as 

purchased 

Beans, string, cooked. 
Beans, string, fresh: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

As purchased. . . . 

Beets, cooked 

Beets, fresh: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

As purchased. . . . 
Cabbage : 

Minimum 



i'er 
cent 
Water 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



4.8 
95.3 

83.5 
91.7 
89.2 
83.0 
88.6 

79.5 
94.1 
87.5 
70.0 

86.0 



Maximum 94.3 



Average 

As purchased 

Cabbage, curly, as pur- 
chased 

Cabbage sprouts, as pur- 
chased 

Carrots, fresh: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

As purchased 

Carrots, evaporated 

Cauliflower, as purchase 

Minimum. . . 

Maximum. . . 

Average 

Celery: 

Minimum. . . 

Maximum. . . 

Average 

As purchased 
CoUards: 

Minimum. . . 

Maxunum. . . 

Average 

As purchased 



91.5 
77.7 

87.3 

33.7 

83.1 
21.1 
.88.2 
70.6 
3.5 
i: 

90.8 
93.8 
92.3 

93.1 
95.0 
94.5 
75.6 

85.8 
88.3 
87.1 
39.5 



12.2 

.8 

1.7 
2.8 
2.3 
2.1 
2.3 

.9 
3.0 
1.6 
1.3 

.2 
2.9 
1.6 
4.1 

4.1 

1.8 

.7 
2.0 
1.1 

.9 

7.7 

1.6 
2.0 
1.8 

1.0 

1.4 

1.1 

.9 

3.3 
5.7 
4.5 
1.5 



I'or 
wnt 
Fat 



2.5 
1.1 

.2 
.4 
.3 
.3 
.1 

.1 
.2 
.1 
.1 

.1 
.7 
.3 
.6 

.6 

.4 



.7 

.4 

.2 

3.6 

.2 

.8 
.5 

.1 
.2 
.1 
.1 

.5 
.7 
.6 
.2 



cent 

Car- 

bohy- 

dratc«> 



77.1 
1.0 

5.1 

12.6 
7.4 
6.9 
7.4 

3.8 

16.3 

9.7 

7.7 

3.4 
8.0 
5.6 
6.2 

6.2 

1.7 

6.5 

13.8 

9.3 

7.4 

80.3 

3.4 
6.0 
4.7 

3.0 
4.6 
3.3 
2.6 

6.2 
6.5 
6.3 
2.9 



Per 

cent 
Fiber' 



1.2 
2.6 

(2)1.9 
1.8 



.6 
1.7 

(18).9 



.5 
1.6 

(8)1.1 



Per 
cent 
Aah 



.6 
2.3 
(15)1.1 



(1)1.0 



3.4 
.0 

.7 
.9 
.8 
.7 
1.6 

.7 
2.0 
1.1 

.9 

.4 

2.4 
1.0 

1.8 

1.8 
.6 

.6 
1.6 
1.0 

.9 
4.9 

.6 
.8 
.7 

.9 
1.1 
1.0 

.8 

1.4 

1.6 

1.5 

.6 



fVWL Vaujb 



jCalorMCtlorki 

per 
Pound 



1.705 
95 

155 
300 
195 
180 
185 

95 
365 
215 
170 

100 
225 
145 
215 

215 

80 

155 
295 
210 
160 
1,790 

110 
175 
140 

75 

115 

85 

70 

205 

250 

225 

90 



302 
21 

36 
66 

43 

40 
41 

21 
81 
47 
37 

22 
50 
32 
47 

47 

17 

34 
65 
46 
35 
397 

24 
38 
31 

16 
25 
18 
15 

45 
55 
50 
20 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



746 



ANALYSIS OF AMEKICA:N^ FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 
cent 
Water 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



Per 

cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates! 



Per 
cent 
Fiber2 



Per 

cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD 
Con. 
Vegetables 
Com, green: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cuciunbers: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Eggplant 

Greens, best, cooked, as 

purchased 

Greens, dandelion, 

purchased 

Greens, turnip-salad, as 
purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Kohlrabi: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Leeks 

Lentils, dried, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Lettuce: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Mushrooms, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Okra: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Onions, fresh: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



72.1 
81.3 
75.4 

94.7 
96.3 
95.4 
92.9 

89.3 

81.4 



84.4 
89.0 
86.7 

90.9 
91.3 
91.1 
91.8 



6.4 
10.7 

8.4 

91.5 
97.0 
94.7 



70.8 
94.4 
88.1 

87.4 
92.9 
90.2 

81.5 
95.2 
87.6 



2.8 
3.7 
3.1 

.5 
.9 

.8 
1.2 

2.2 

2.4 



3.2 
5.2 
4.2 

1.7 
2.3 
2.0 
1.2 



24.5 
26.6 
25.7 

.7 
1.8 
1.2 



1.7 
6.0 
3.5 

1.2 
2.0 
1.6 

.2 
4.4 
1.6 



1.0 
1.1 
1.1 

.1 
.5 
.2 
.3 

3.4 

1.0 

.5 



.7 
1.5 
1.0 

.1 
.6 
.3 



14.1 
22.6 
19.7 

2.2 
4.0 
3.1 
5.1 

3.2 

10.6 



5.5 
7.1 
6.3 

5.4 
5.6 
5.5 

5.8 



58.6 
59.8 
59.2 

1.6 
4.9 
2.9 



2.4 

20.3 

6.8 

5.3 
9.5 
7.4 

4.2 

15.5 

9.9 



(1).5 

.5 

.9 

(2).7 



1.1 
1.4 
1.3 



.4 
1.1 

(7) .7 



.1 
2.0 



(8) 



(1)3.4 

.7 
1.3 

(7) .8 



.7 
.8 

.7 

.3 
.6 
.5 
.5 

1.7 

4.6 



1.8 
2.5 
2.2 

1.3 
1.3 
1.3 

.7 



3.2 

8.6 
5.7 

.5 

1.2 

.9 



.7 
2.2 
1.2 

.5 

.7 
.6 

.1 

1.2 

.6 



360 
530 
470 

65 

95 

80 

130 

245 

285 



180 
265 
220 

140 
145 
145 
150 



1,595 
1,635 
1,620 



65 

150 

90 



90 
525 
210 

125 
230 
175 

90 
335 
225 



80 
117 
104 

14 
21 

17 

28 

54 
63 



40 

58 
48 

31 
32 
32 
33 



354 
363 
360 

14 
33 
20 



20 

116 

46 

27 
51 
38 

20 
74 
50 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OP AMEIIICAN FOODS 747 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 

Vegetables • 
Onions, cooked, pre- 
pared, as purchased . . 
Onions, green (New Mex- 
ico) : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Parsnips: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Peas, dried, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Peas, green: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Peas, green, cooked, as 

purchased 

Peas, sugar green 

Cowpeas, dried, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cowpeas, green 



Potatoes, raw or fresh : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Potatoes, evaporated, as 
purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Potatoes, cooked, boiled 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per 

cent 
VVnUT 



91.2 



80.4 
8K.7 
87.1 

79.5 
89.2 
83.0 

6.9 

15.0 

9.5 

71.6 
78.1 
74.6 

73.8 

81.8 



10.0 
20.9 
13.0 
65.9 



67.8 
84.0 
78.3 



4.8 
8.7 
7.1 



69.7 
81.0 
75.5 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
iein 



1.2 



.8 
1.3 
1.0 

1.4 
1.9 
1.6 

20.4 
28.0 
24.6 

4.4 
8.0 
7.0 

6.7 
3.4 



19.3 

23.0 

21.4 

9.4 



1.1 
3.0 
2.2 



7.3 
9.5 

8.5 



1.8 
3.1 
2.5 



Per 

rent 
Fat 



1.8 



.1 
.2 
.1 

.2 
.8 
.5 

.8 
1.3 
1.0 

.3 
.6 
.5 

3.4 
.4 



1.1 

1.6 

1.4 

.6 



Per 

wnt 

Ciir- 

bohy* 

drstM* 



4.0 



0.0 
12.4 
11.2 

8.5 
16.7 
13.5 

58.0 
67.4 
62.0 

13.4 
18.9 
16.9 

14.6 
13.7 



53.1 
65.4 
60.8 
22.7 



13.5 
•27.4 

18.4 



79.5 
82.2 
80.9 



16.1 
26.5 
20.0 



JVr 

cmt 
HberH 



(1)2.5 

1.2 
7.0 

(2)4.5 



(1)1.7 



1.6 



3.4 
5.0 
4.1 



.2 
.0 

(53).4 



(1) .6 



P^ 
oetii 
Aflb 



leAlorMCiOoriM 
r too 



.5 

.7 
.6 

.7 
1.0 
1.4 

2.2 
4.3 
2.0 

.0 

1.0 

1.5 

.7 



2.0 
3.8 
3.4 
1.4 



.5 
1.0 
1.0 



2.7 
3.6 
3.1 



1.4 
1.0 



Finn* Value 



100 



205 
965 

280 

100 
375 

aoo 

1,570 
1,070 
1,055 

400 

405 

540 
335 



1.450 

1,050 

1,500 

020 



285 
570 
385 



1,540 
1,725 
1,680 



340 
545 
440 



42 



46 

58 
51 

42 
83 
66 

348 
371 
367 



103 

120 
74 



322 
366 
353 
137 



68 

126 

85 



364 
388 

378 



75 

121 

07 



1 Fiber incliuled. 

2 Xiiniber of determinations in parentliow*. 

49 



748 



ANALYSIS or AMERTCAH FOODS 



Food Materials 



chips, 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 
Vegetables 
Potatoes, cooked 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Potatoes, cooked, mashed 
and creamed, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Potatoes, sweet, raw, or 
fresh: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average. . 
Potatoes, sweet, cooked 
and prepared, as pur- 
chased 

Pumpkins: 
Minimum. 
Maximum 
Average.. 
Radishes: 

Minimum. 
Maximum 
Average.. . 
Rhubarb: 

Minimum. 
Maximum, 
Average. . 
Ruta-bagas: 
Minimum. 
Maximum, 
Average.. . 
Sauerkraut, aspurchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Spinach, fresh, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per 
cent 
Water 



1.8 
2.6 
2.2 



68.9 
78.0 
75.1 



45.8 
79.0 
69.0 



51.9 

92.3 
94.4 
93.1 

86.6 
94.8 
91.8 

92.7 
96.1 
94.4 

87.1 
91.3 

88.9 

86.3 
91.3 

88.8 



91.6 
92.8 
92.3 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



6.0 
7.6 
6.8 



2.0 
3.6 
2.6 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



35.5 
44.2 
39.8 



1.0 
4.5 
3.0 



Per 

cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



.4 
3.7 
1.8 


.2 
1.4 

.7 


3.0 


2.1 


.9 
1.1 
1.0 


.1 
.2 
.1 


.5 
3.0 
1.3 


".'3 
.1 


.3 

.8 
.6 


.1 
1.2 

.7 


.9 
2.0 
1.3 


.1 
.3 
.2 


1.5 
1.9 
1.7 


.2 

.8 
.5 


1.8 
2.4 
2.1 


.2 
.5 
.3 



42.7 
50.6 
46.7 



13.9 
22.4 
17.8 



17.1 
49.1 
27.4 



42.1 

3.9 
5.9 
5.2 

3.4 

8.3 

5.8 

2.9 
4.4 
3.6 

6.2 
10.3 

8.5 

3.3 
4.4 
3.8 



3.1 
3.4 
3.2 



Per 

cent 
Fiber2 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



.6 
4.6 

(88)1.3 



.9 
1.1 
1.2 

.7 

.7 

(2) .7 



(1)1.1 



1.1 
1.4 
1.2 



.7 

1.0 

.9 



4.5 
4.5 
4.5 



1.1 
2.0 
1.5 



.7 
2.0 
1.1 



.9 

.6 

.7 
.6 

.7 
1.8 
1.0 

.6 
.9 

.7 

.7 
1.4 
1.1 

3.3 
7.0 
5.2 



1.9 
2.4 
2.1 



2,580 
2,770 
2,675 



420 
615 
505 



385 
915 
570 



925 

95 
135 
120 

85 
225 
135 

65 
145 
105 

135 
220 
190 

105 
145 
125 



100 
120 
110 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



» Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS 



740 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 
Vegetables 
Spinach, cooked, as pur- 
chased 

Squash : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tomatoes, fresh, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tomatoes, dried, as pur- 
chased 

Turnips: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Vegetables, canned 
Artichokes, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum..., .... 

Average 

Asparagus, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beans, baked, as pur- 
chased: 
Minimum. . , 
Maximum. . . 

Average 

Beans, string, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beans, Httle green, 

purchased 

Beans, wax, as purchased 
Beans, haricots verts, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum. . . 



as 



Per 

cent 
Wat<»r 



Per 

cent 
Pro. 
tein 



Average 95.2 



78.9 
95.2 

88.3 



9L3 
96.3 
94.3 

7.3 

70.1 
95.7 
89.6 



90.2 
93.9 
92.5 

92.9 
95.4 
94.4 



59.9 

78.2 
68.9 



77.3 
96.3 
93.7 

93.8 
94.6 



94.3 
96.1 



2.1 

.6 
3.1 
1.4 



.3 

1.3 

.9 



12.9 

.7 
3.9 
1.3 



.5 
1.0 

.8 

.9 
2.4 
1.5 



5.1 
8.1 
6.9 



.6 
4.0 
1.1 

1.2 
1.0 



.9 
1.4 
1.1 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



4.1 

.1 

1.4 

.5 



.2 

1.4 

.4 

8.1 

.1 
.4 
.2 



.3 
6.8 
2.5 



Pte* 

orat 

Car- 

bohy< 

draUs* 



2.6 

3.5 

16.1 

9.0 



2.2 

6.5 
3.9 

62.3 

2.8 

23.8 

8.1 



3.7 

6.8 
8.0 

2.2 
4.1 

2.8 



13.1 
23.2 
19.6 



2.0 

13.5 

3.8 

3.4 
3.1 



2.1 
3.0 
2.5 



cent 
FiberH 



.6 
1.2 

(5) .8 



.5 
1.2 

(22).6 



.8 
3.2 
(9)1.3 



1.3 
4.5 

(12)2.51 



.4 

.8 
(18).5 

.6 
.6 



OODi 

Aah 



1.4 

.4 

1.6 
A 



.3 
.8 
A 

9.4 

.5 
2.1 

.8 



1.4 
2.2 
1.7 

.8 
1.8 
1.2 



1.4 
1.6 
2.1 



.5 
4.7 
1.3 

1.5 
1.2 



.9 
1.3 
1.1 



F^TBL VaLUB 



CalorfanCdoriv 



prr 
PouimI 



\tet 100 
(2i 



200 

90 

385 
215 



76 
160 
106 

1,740 

100 
520 
185 



86 
140 
110 

70 

120 

86 



426 
870 
600 



60 

346 

06 

90 
80 



66 

96 
70 



20 
86 
47 



16 
36 
23 



386 

22 

116 

41 



18 
31 
24 

16 
26 
18 



94 
193 
133 



11 
76 
21 

20 
17 



12 
21 
16 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



750 



AIS^ALYSIS OF AMEKICA:^^ FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 
cent 
Water 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates' 



Per 
cent 
Fiber- 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calorie^ 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 
Vegetables, canned 
Beans, haricots flageo- 
lets, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beans, haricots panaches, 

as purchased 

Beans, Lima, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beans, red kidneys, as 

purchased 

Brussels sprouts, as pur- 
chased 

Com, green, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Corn and tomatoes, as 
purchased: 

Minimtun 

Maximum 

Average 

Macedoine (mixed vege- 
tables), as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Okra, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Okra and tomatoes, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Peas, green, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



80.4 
83.9 
8L6 

86.1 



75.7 
83.9 
79.5 

72.7 

93.7 



68.3 
86.1 
76.1 



83.6 
91.5 

87.6 



91.5 
95.9 
93.1 

94.0 
94.9 
94.4 



91.4 
92.3 
91.8 

77.5 
92.7 
85.3 



4.0 
5.2 
4.6 

3.7 



3.2 
5.6 
7.0 

7.0 

1.5 



2.0 
3.7 

2.8 



1.2 
2.1 
1.6 



.7 
1.7 
1.4 

.5 

.9 
.7 



1.1 
1.2 
1.1 

1.6 
6.1 
3.6 



.5 
1.9 
1.2 



10.8 
13.4 
12.5 

9.2 



10.5 
17.9 
18.5 

18.5 

3.4 



9.8 
25.8 
19.0 



6.4 

12.7 

9.6 



2.3 
5.7 
4.5 

3.3 
3.9 
3.6 



4.8 
5.7 
5.2 

4.9 

17.4 

9.8 



1.0 
1.0 
1.0 

1.0 



.9 
1.4 
1.2 

1.2 

.5 



.4 
1.2 

(43).8 



.4 

.7 
.6 

.4 
1.4 

.7 



.4 
.6 
.5 

.6 
1.5 

(83)1.2 



.9 
1.7 
1.2 

1.0 



1.0 
2.6 
1.6 

1.6 

1.3 



.5 

1.6 

.9 



.5 
1.2 



1.2 
1.0 

.3 
1.7 

1.2 



1.4 
1.8 
1.6 

.3 
2.0 
1.1 



280 
350 
320 

240 



280 
445 
360 

480 

95 



250 
610 
455 



160 
295 
225 



55 
135 
110 

75 
95 

85 



125 
135 
130 

130 
405 
255 



62 

77 
71 

53 



62 
98 
80 

106 

21 



55 
135 
101 



35 
65 
50 



12 
30 
24 

16 
21 

18 



27 
30 

28 

30 
90 
56 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS 



761 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Can. 

Vegetables, canned 
Potatoes, sweet, aa pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pumpkins, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Squash, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Succotash, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Tomatoes, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per 

cent 
Water 



Pickles, Condiments, etc. 
Catsup, tomato, as pur- 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Horse-radish, as pur- 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Horse-radish, as pur- 
chased 

Olives, green 

Ohves, ripe 

Peppers (paprica), green 
dried, as purchased . . . 
Peppers, red chili, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



42.0 
55.2 



88.2 
94.3 
91.6 

8.5.6 
89.9 
87.6 

71.4 
79.9 
75.9 

92.5 
97.9 
94.0 



27.7 

87.8 
82.8 



85.4 

87.5 
86.4 

4.3 
58.0 
64.7 

5.0 



3.9 
6.4 
5.3 



Per 

cent 
Pro- 
tein 



1.3 
2.6 
1.9 

.5 
1.2 

.8 

.2 

1.6 

.9 

2.9 
4.4 
3.6 

.3 
1.7 
1.2 



1.1 
2.0 
1.5 



1.2 
1.6 
1.4 

11.0 
1.1 
1.7 

15.5 



8.2 

11.1 

9.4 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



.3 
.5 
.4 

.1 
4 

.2 

.1 

1.2 
.5 

.7 
1.7 
1.0 

.1 
.3 
.2 



.1 
.2 
.2 

.8 
27.6 
25.0 

8.5 



6.3 

10.3 

7.7 



Per 
cent 
C«r- 
bohy' 



292 
53.6 
41.4 

4.7 
9.6 
6.7 

8.2 
13.9 
10.5 

14.9 
22.4 
18.6 

1.4 
8.1 
4.0 



8.5 
16.1 
12.3 



9.6 
11.3 
10.5 

77.7 

11.6 

4.3 

63.0 



67.3 
71.9 
70.0 



Ptor 
cent 
FIbeH 



(1) .8 

.6 
1.5 

(5)1.1 

.3 
1.1 

(2) .7 

.7 
1.1 
(10).9 

.4 

.7 

(11).5 



P^ 
oeol 
A«h 



CtiMmCtMm 



\.3 
1.1 

.4 

1.5 

.7 

.2 

.7 
.5 

.4 

1.4 
.9 

.2 

1.2 

.6 



2.5 
3.8 
3.2 



1.5 
1.6 
1.5 

6.2 
1.7 
3.4 

8.0 



7.4 
8.0 
7.6 



FUBL Vauw 



Pound 



MO 

1.085 

820 

100 
206 
150 

185 
2«5 
235 

375 
540 
455 

80 
135 
105 



185 
355 
205 



210 
245 
230 

1.685 
L400 
1.205 

1.820 



1.770 
1.805 
1,800 



P&F 100 
GfHM 



128 
230 
183 

22 
45 
33 

41 
68 
52 



120 
101 

17 
30 
23 



40 

78 
58 



46 

51 

374 
311 
267 

404 



383 
421 
400 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parenthesea. 



752 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con. 
Pickles, Condiments, etc. 
Pickles, cucumber, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pickles, mixed, as pur- 
chased 

Pickles, spiced, as pur- 
chased: 

Fruits, Berries, etc., fresh 
Apples: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Apricots 

Bananas, yellow: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Blackberries, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cherries: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cranberries, aspurchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Currants, as purchased. 
Figs, fresh, as purchased 

Average 

Grapes, average 

Huckleberries 

Lemons: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Lemon juice 

Muskmelons 

Nectarines 



Per 
cent 
Water 



89.0 
95 5 
92.9 

93.8 

77.1 



77.3 
90.9 
84.6 
85.0 

66.3 
81.6 
75.3 



78.4 
88.9 
86.3 

76.9 
86.1 
80.9 

87.6 
89.5 
88.9 
85.0 

79.1 
77.4 
81.9 

88.4 
90.2 
89.3 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



89.5 
82.9 



.4 
.7 
.5 

1.1 

.4 



.1 

.8 

.4 

1.1 

1.0 
1.6 
1.3 



.9 
1.5 
1.3 

.7 
1.1 
1.0 

.4 

.5 

.4 

1.5 

1.5 

1.3 

.6 

.8 
1.1 
1.0 

'.'6 
.6 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



.1 

1.4 

.5 



1.4 
.6 



.5 
2.9 
1.0 

.8 



1.6 
.6 

.1 
1.5 

.7 



Per 

cent 

Car- 

bohy 

drates^ 



1.3 
5.4 
2.7 

4.0 

20.7 



8.8 
21.3 
14.2 
13.4 

16.3 
29.8 
22.0 



7.5 
16.7 
10.9 

11.4 
20.6 
16.7 

9.3 
10.9 

9.9 
12.8 

18.8 
19.2 
16.6 

8.2 
9.0 
8.5 
9.8 
9.3 
15.9 



Per 
cent 
Fiber2 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



.9 
1.4 

(7)1.2 



(Di.o 



(1)2.5 



(1) .2 

1.2 
1.7 

(2)1.5 



(1)4.3 



.9 
1.3 

(2)1.1 

2.i 



2.7 
4.6 
3.6 

.7 

1.7 



.2 
.6 
.3 
.5 

.5 
1.1 

.8 



.4 
.9 
.5 

.5 

1.0 

.6 

.2 
.2 
.2 

.7 

.6 
.5 
.3 

.5 
.5 
.5 

.6 
.6 



35 

130 

70 

110 

395 



175 
420 
290 
270 

330 
640 
460 



245 
456 
270 

320 
430 
365 

200 
245 
215 
265 

380 
450 
345 

180 
240 
205 
180 
185 
305 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



7 
28 
15 

24 

87 



38 
93 
64 
60 

73 

142 
102 



54 

101 

60 

71 
95 

81 

44 
54 

47 
58 

84 

100 

76 

40 
53 
45 
40 
41 
67 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OP AMERICAN FOODS 753 



Food Materials 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 

Con. 
Fruits, Berries, etc., fresh 

Oranges: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Peaches: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pears: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Persimmons 

Pineapple 

Plums, average 

Pomegranates: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Prunes, average 

Raspberries, red, as pur- 
chased 

Raspberries, black: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Raspberry juice 

Strawberries: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Watermelons: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Whortleberries, as pur- 
chased 

Fruits, etc., dried 
Apples, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



Per 

cent 
Water 



80.0 

88.3 
86.9 

89.3 
89.6 
89.4 

83.9 

84.8 
84.4 
66.1 
89.3 

78.4 

75.4 

78.2 
76.8 
79.6 

85.8 

82.2 
86.4 
84.1 
49.3 

85.4 
94.0 
90.4 

92.0 
92.9 
92.4 

82.4 



8.6 

7.4 

28.1 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



.8 

1.1 

.8 

.4 
.9 
.7 

.6 
.6 
.6 
.8 
.4 
1.0 

1.3 

1.6 

1.5 

.9 

1.0 

1.5 

2.1 

1.7 

.5 

.6 
1.2 
1.0 

.3 
.6 
.4 



1.2 
2.5 
1.6 



Per 

cent 
Fat 



1.2 
2.1 
1.6 



1.7 
1.0 



.4 

1.1 

.6 

.1 
.2 
.2 

3.0 



.1 
5.0 
2.2 



Per 

cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drate* 



11.6 
18.5 
11.6 

9.3 
9.4 
9.4 

14.1 
14.2 
14.1 
31.5 
9.7 
20.1 

18.5 
20.4 
19.5 
18.9 

12.6 

11.7 
13.6 
12.6 
49.9 

4.4 

12.3 
7.4 

6.5 
6.9 
6.7 

13.5 



48.6 
86.9 
66.1 



Per 
cent 
HbeH 



(1)3.6 



(1)2.7 
1.8 
.4 



2.6 

2.8 
2.7 



2.9 



.7 
2.3 

(19)1.4 



3.2 



Per 
cent 
Aah 



1.4 
2.7 
2.0 



TVEL Vautb 



IC^MmCtMm 
\p&r 100 
Pound 



215 
376 
240 

185 
lft5 
190 

275 
310 
295 
830 
200 
305 

420 
495 
460 
370 

255 

245 
350 
310 
935 

130 
235 
180 

125 
160 
140 

390 



965 
1.630 
1.350 



47 
O 

41 
43 
42 

61 
68 
65 
140 
40 
87 

93 
110 
102 

82 

50 
54 

n 

68 
207 

28 
52 
40 

27 
35 
31 

80 



218 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheMS. 



754 



ANALYSIS OF AMERICA:Nr FOODS 



Food Matorials 



Per 

cent 
Water 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



Per 
cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates' 



Per 

cent 
Fibers 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 

Fruits, etc., dried 
Apricots, as purchased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Citron, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Currants, Zante, as pur 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Dates: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Figs, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum , 

Average 

Grapes, ground, as pur- 
chased 

Pears, as purchased 

Prunes: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Raisins: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Raspberries, as pur- 
chased 

Fruits, etc., canned 
Jellies, Preserves, etc. 

Apples, crab, as pur 
chased 

Applesauce, as pur- 
chased 

Apricots, as purchased. . 

Apricot sauce, as pur- 
chased. 



26.4 
32.4 
29.4 

12.4 
25.6 
19.0 



35.3 
35.1 
17.2 

9.9 
20.8 
15.4 

11.6 
25.0 

18.8 

34.8 
16.5 

16.9 
27.5 
22.3 

7.1 
21.0 
14.6 

8.1 



42.4 

61.1 
81.4 

45.2 



2.9 
6.4 
4.7 

.4 
.6 
.5 



1.0 
4.7 
2.4 

2.1 
2.2 
2.1 

2.6 
5.7 
4.3 

2.8 
2.8 

1.4 
3.2 
2.1 

2.3 
3.0 
2.6 

7.3 



.3 

.2 

.9 

1.9 



1.0 
1.1 
1.0 



2.5 
1.5 



.4 
4.7 
1.7 

.6 
5.1 

2.8 

7.3 
.3 
.3 



5.4 



.5 
7.2 
3.3 

1.8 



2.4 

.8 

1.3 



62.7 
63.3 
62.5 

72.5 

83.7 
78.1 



60.0 
85.3 
74.2 

70.4 
86.3 

78.4 

68.3 
83.1 
74.2 

60.5 
72.9 

68.1 
78.6 
73.3* 

71.3 

78.8 
76.1 

80.2 



54.4 

37.2 
17.3 

48.8 



3.7 



1.4 
3.4 
2.4 

.8 
.9 
.9 



2.2 
9.1 
4.5 

1.1 
1.5 
1.3 

2.2 
2.5 
2.4 

1.2 
2.4 

1.5 
3.0 
2.3 

2.0 
5.0 
3.4 

2.6 



.5 
.4 

2.8 



1,230 
1,330 
1,290 

1,380 
1,675 
1,525 



1,195 
1,690 
1,495 

1,355 
1,670 
1,615 

1,355 
1,595 
1,475 

1,205 
1,635 

1,340 
1,500 
1,400 

1,540 
1,805 
1,605 

1,705 



1,120 

730 
340 

1,000 



273 

295 
286 

306 
372 
338 



265 
375 
332 

301 
371 
358 

301 
354 
327 

267 
363 

297 
333 
311 

342 
401 
356 

378 



148 

162 
75 

222 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COill'OSITlON OF AMKHICAN FOODS 756 



Food Materials 



aa pur- 



VEGETABLE FOOD— 
Con. 
Fruits, etc., canned 
Jellies, Preserves, etc. 
Blackberries, as pur- 
chased 

Blueberries, 
chased : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cherries, as purchased 
1st quality, as pur- 
chased 

2nd quality, as pur- 
chased 

Figs, stewed, as pur- 
chased 

Grape butter, as pur- 
chased 

Marmalade (orange peel) 

as purchased 

Peaches, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pears, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pineapples, as purchased 
Prune sauce, as pur- 
chased. . 
Strawberries, stewed, as 

purchased 

Tomato preserves, as 

purchased 

Nuts 
Ahnonds: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Beechnuts. 

' ' Biotes ' ' (acorns) (Quer- 

cus emor}"!) 

Brazil nuts (bertholletia 
excelsa) 



Pfer 

cent 
Wat^T 



40.0 



84.9 
86.4 
85.6 
77.2 

21.0 

38.4 

56.5 

36.7 

14.5 

81.4 
93.7 

88.1 

79.0 
83.6 
81.1 
61.8 

76.6 

74.8 
40.9 



2.0 
5.3 

4.8 
4.0 

4.1 

5.3 



Per 

cent 

tein 



,8 

.4 

.8 

.6 

1.1 

1.1 

1.2 

1.2 

1.2 

.6 

.5 
.9 

.7 

.5 
.3 
.4 

.5 

.7 

.7 



16.6 
25.3 
21.0 
21.9 

8.1 

17.0 



Per 

cont 
Fat 



2.1 



4S.9 
60.0 
M.9 
57.4 

37.4 

66.8 



Prr 

cent 

Car- 

bohy- 

dntflfi 



56.4 

12.2 
13.8 
12.8 
21.1 

77.2 

59.8 

40.9 

58.5 

84.5 

5.3 
17.3 
10.8 

15.6 
19.5 
18.0 
36.4 

22.3 

24.0 

57.6 

12.8 
21.4 
17.3 
13.2 

48.0 

7.0 



Per 
ooni 
FUmH 



1.6 
2.5 
2.0 



Per 



CftlorMCalorkM 
per 100 
Onmi 



.7 

.2 
.6 
.4 

.6 

.7 

.6 

1.1 

3.5 

.3 

.3 
.4 
.3 

.2 
.3 
.3 
.7 

.5 

.5 

.7 

1.6 
2.5 
2.0 
3.5 

2.4 

3.0 



PVBL Vauw 



MM 

200 
280 
275 
415 

1,466 

1,135 

786 

1,116 

1,686 

116 
340 
220 

300 
400 
365 
716 

430 

460 

1,090 

2370 
3,146 
3,030 
3,075 

2,620 

3,266 



266 



67 
O 
61 
«2 



252 

176 

247 

362 

26 
76 

48 

66 
88 

78 
168 

06 

102 

242 

637 
606 
67S 
688 

682 

725 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentliesea. 



756 



ANALYSIS OF AMEKICAN FOODS 



Food Materials 



Per 
cent 
Water 



Per 
cent 
Pro- 
tein 



Per 
cent 
Fat 



Per 

cent 
Car- 
bohy- 
drates' 



Per 
cent 
Fibers 



Per 
cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



VEGETABLE FOOD 
Con. 

Nuts 

Butternuts (juglans cin- 

era) 

Chestnuts, fresh: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chestnuts, dried: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cocoanuts, as purchased 
Cocoanut without milk, 

as purchased 

Cocoanut milk, as pur- 
chased 

Cocoanut, prepared, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Filberts 

Hickory nuts 

Lichi nuts 

Peanuts: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Peanut butter, as pur- 
chased 

Pecans polished 

Pecans, unpohshed 

P*ine nuts: 

Pignolias 

Piniones (Pinus mono- 

phylla) 

Pinon (Pinus edulis) . . 

Sabine pine nut (Pinus 

sabiniana) 

Pistachios: 

1st quality, shelled . 

2d quality, shelled. 
Walnuts, California 



4.4 

29.2 
53.8 
45.0 

4.8 
6.6 
5.9 

7.2 

8.9 
92.7 



2.8 
4.3 
3.5 
3.7 
3.7 
17.9 

4.9 

13.2 

9.2 

2.1 
3.0 
2.7 

6.4 

3.§ 
3.4 

5.1 



4.2 
4.3 
2.5 



27.9 

4.1 

8.0 
6.2 

8.2 
13.5 
10.7 

2.9 

3.6 
.4 



6.0 
6.5 
6.3 
15.6 
15.4 
2.9 

19.5 
29.1 

25.8 

29.3 

11.0 

9.6 

33.9 

6.5 
14.6 

28.1 



22.3 

22.8 
18.4 



61.2 

2.0 

10.8 

5.4 

3.9 
15.3 

7.0 
25.9 

31.7 

1.5 



51.0 
63.7 
57.4 
65.3 
67.4 
.2 

32.3 

48.8 
38.6 

46.5 
71.2 
70.5 

49.4 

60.7 
61.9 

53.7 



54.0 
54.9 
64.4 



3.5 

36.9 
54.0 
42.1 

65.7 
80.3 
74.2 
14.3 

17.5 

4.6 



24.1 
39.0 
31.5 
13.0 
11.4 
77.5 

15.3 
40.4 
24^4 

17.1 
13.3 
15.3 

6.9 

26.2 
17.3 

8.4 



16.3 
14.9 
13.0 



1.4 
2.5 

1.8 

2.4 
3.0 
2.7 



2.0 
3.0 
2.5 



1.4 



2.9 

.7 
1.8 
1.3 

1.5 

2.9 

2.2 

.9 

1.0 

.8 



1.2 
1.4 
1.3 
2.4 
2.1 
1.5 

1.9 
2.4 
2.0 

5.0 
1.5 
1.9 

3.4 

2.8 
2.8 

4.7 



3.2 
3.0 
1.7 



3,165 

895 
1,480 
1,125 



1,815 
2,085 
1,875 



1,730 
155 



2,990 
3,260 
3,125 
3,290 
3,345 
1,505 

2,415 

2,885 
2,560 

2,825 
3,455 
3,435 

2,845 

3,170 
3,205 

2,945 



2,995 
3,020 
3,300 



703 

198 
328 
250 

403 
463 
416 
314 

384 

34 



664 
724 
694 
731 
743 
334 

536 
640 
568 

627 
767 
763 

632 

704 

712 

654 



» Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheses. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS 767 



Food Materials 



Per 
cent 
Water 



VEGETABLE FOOD- 
Con. 

NtU8 

Walnuts, California, 
black : 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

. As purchased. . . . 
Walnuts, California, soft 
shell: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

"Malted nute," as pur 
chased 



Miscellaneous 

Chocolate, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cocoa, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Cereal coffee infusion (91 
parts boiled in 20 

parts water) 

Yeast, compressed, as 
purchased 



2.5 

2.5 

2.5 

.6 



2.5 
2.5 
2.5 

2.6 



1.5 

10.3 

5.9 

3.2 
5.4 
4.6 



98.2 
65.1 



Per 
cent 
Pm- 
Vein 



24.9 

30.3 

27.6 

7.2 



14.3 
20.4 
16.6 

23.7 



12.5 
13.4 
12.9 

20.6 
22.7 
21.6 



.2 
11.7 



Per 

rent 
Fat 



P^ 

cent • 

bohy. 
dmUt* 



54.7 

57.8 
56.3 
14.6 



60.0 
67.0 
63.4 

27.6 



47.1 
50.2 

48.7 

27.1 
31.5 
28.9 



7.4 
16.1 
11.7 

3.0 



14.5 
19.1 
16.1 

43.9 



26.8 
33.8 
30.3 

35.3 
40.6 
37.7 



1.4 
21.0 



Per 
eeni 
FlbrH 



1.6 
1.8 
1.7 



1.4 
3.2 
2.6 



Per 



ICaloriMCAlorioi 
per 100 
Oi 



1.8 
2.0 
1.9 



1.2 
1.6 
1.4 

22 



1.1 
3.3 
2Ji 

5.4 
8.9 
7.2 



1.8 



VtJML VAum 



3.070 

3.140 

2.105 

806 



3.195 
3.370 
3.285 

2,240 



2.720 
2.905 
2.860 

2.235 
2.370 
2.320 



30 
625 



1 Fiber included. 

2 Number of determinations in parentheee*. 



758 



a:n'alysis of americais^ foods 



Food Materials 



Per cent 
Water 



Per cent 
Protein 



Per cent 
Fat 



Per cent 
Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per cent 
Ash 



Fuel Value 



Calories 

per 
Pound 



Calories 
per 100 
Grams 



ANIMAL AND 

VEGETABLE 

(Unclassified Food 

Materials) 

Soups, homemade 
Beef soup, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Bean soup, as purchased. 
Chicken soup, as pur- 
chased 

Clam chowder, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Meat stew, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Soups, canned 
Asparagus, cream of, as 

purchased 

Bouillon, as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Celery, cream of, as pur- 
chased 

Chicken gumbo, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Chicken soup, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Consomm^, as purchased. 
Cream, com of, as pur- 
chased 

Julienne, as purchased.. . 
Mock turtle, as pur- 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 



92.3 
93.5 
92.9 
84.3 

84.3 



81.6 
95.7 

88.7 

82.6 
87.6 
84.5 



87.4 

96.5 
96.7 
96.6 

88.6 



86.8 
91.7 
89.2 



93.2 
94.5 
93.8 
96.0 

86.8 
95.9 



88.9 
90.8 

89.8 



2.7 
6.2 
4.4 
3.2 

10.5 



.7 
2.9 
1.8 

3.7 
5.6 
4.6 



2.5 

1.7 
2.6 
2.2 

2.1 



3.0 
4.6 

3.8 



3.2 
3.9 
3.6 
2.5 

2.5 
2.7 



4.5 
5.9 
5.2 



.3 

.5 

.4 

1.4 

.8 



.5 
1.1 



2.0 
6.4 
4.3 



3.2 



.2 
.1 

2.8 



.2 

1.7 

.9 



1.9 



.5 

1.3 

.9 



2.2 
1.1 
9.4 

2.4 



2.5 

11.0 

6.7 

4.3 
7.9 
7.5 



5.5 

.1 
.3 
.2 

5.0 



3.8 
5.5 
4.7 



1.2 

1.7 

1.5 

.4 

7.8 
.5 



1.6 
3.9 

2.8 



1.1 
1.2 
1.2 
1.7 

2.0 



.6 
3.4 
2.0 

1.0 
1.3 
1.1 



1.4 

.4 

1.4 

.9 

1.5 



1.3 
1.4 
1.4 



.9 
1.2 
1.0 
1.1 

1.0 
.9 



1.2 
1.4 
1.3 



110 
130 
120 
295 

275 



80 
305 
195 

255 
445 
370 



285 

40 
50 
50 

250 



135 
260 
195 



90 
105 
100 

55 

270 
60 



160 
210 
185 



24 

28 
26 
65 

61 



17 
67 
43 

56 

98 
82 



63 

8 
10 
10 

55 



30 
57 
43 



20 
23 
22 
12 

60 
13 



35 
46 
41 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITIOX OF AMFIUCAN FOODS 



759 



Food Materials 



ANIMAL AND 

VF.GETAHLE— Tow. 

(Uiichussifiocl Food 

Materials) 

Soups, catmed 



as pur- 



as 



Mulligatawny 
chjised 

Minimum. . 

Maxinmm 

Average 

Oxtail: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pea soup, as purchased 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Pea, cream of green, 

purchased 

Tomato soup, as pur 
chased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Turtle, green, as pur- 
chased. 
Vegetable, as purchased. 

Miscellaneous 
Hash, as purchased .... 
^'Infants' and invalids' 
foods," as purchased . . 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Mincemeat, commercial, 
as purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Mincemeat, homemade, as 
purchased: 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Salad, ham, as purchased. 
Sandwich, eggs, as pur- 
chased 

Sandwich, chicken, as pur- 
chased 



Per cent 
WaU'f 



87.2 
91.3 
89.3 

88.3 
89.4 
88.8 

81.6 
91.7 
86.9 

87.7 



89.7 
90.4 
90.0 

86.6 
95.7 

80.3 



2.4 

12.3 

6.0 



20.8 
39.7 
27.7 



49.6 
56.9 
54.4 
69.4 

41.4 

48.5 



Per crnt 
Protein 



3.3 
4.1 
3.7 

3.9 
4.1 
4.0 

1.5 

5.8 
3.6 

2.6 



1.7 
1.9 
1.8 

6.1 
2.9 

6.0 



2.0 
22.5 
12.7 



1.4 

14.6 

6.7 



3.4 

6.3 

4.8 

15.4 

9.6 

12.3 



Peroent 
Fftt 



.3 
.1 

.5 
2.1 
1.3 



1.6 
.7 

2.7 



.9 
1.2 
1.1 

1.9 



1.9 



.3 

10.9 

3.3 



.8 
2.2 
1.4 



4.9 
8.1 
6.7 
7.6 



pGToeiit 
Ctorbo- 



12.7 34.5 



3.8 
7.6 
5.7 

4.2 
4.3 
4.3 

5.1 
I I 

7.6 
5.7 



5.3 
6.0 
5.6 

3.9 
.5 

9.4 



66.9 
89.4 
76.2 



56.7 
67.4 
60.2 



28.6 

34.1 

32.1 

5.6 



FlWL Valdb 



IVMitCilorkiCdoriM 
AA wr par 100 
Ptoviid rOruM 



5.4 



32.1 



LI 
1.3 
1.2 

1.9 
1.6 

.7 
1.5 
1.2 

1.3 



1.2 
1.7 
1.5 

1.5 
.9 

2.4 



.3 
4.5 
1.8 



1.1 
7.1 
4.0 



1.0 
2.5 
2.0 
2.0 

1.8 

1.7 



146 
215 
180 

176 
246 
210 

220 
316 
236 

270 



180 
186 
186 

265 
65 

365 



L616 
1.986 
1,706 



L126 
L420 
1,306 



900 

LOOO 

970 

710 

1,366 

1.066 



32 
47 
40 



64 

46 

48 
70 
62 



40 
41 
41 

68 
14 

81 



368 
441 



250 
316 
290 



200 
240 
216 
167 

301 

2M 



760 ANALYSIS OF AMERICA:N^ FOODS 

REFERENCES 

1. Atwater and Bryant. Composition of American Food Materials, 

U. S. Dept. of Agric, Office of Exper. Sta., Bull. No. 28. 

2. Atwater and Bryant. U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. No. 28. 

8. PsABsoNy George. Report on Arts and Manufactures, 3, 1795, 

pp. 383-400. 
4. EiNiioFF. Gehlen's Neues J. Chem., 4, 1805, pp. 315, 455; 5, 1806, 

p. 131. 
6. Atwater, W. O. (On the proximate composition of several varieties 

of American maize.) Am. J. Sc. & Arts, 47, 1869, No. 11, 

p. 352. 
6. Atwater and Bryant. U. S. Dept of Agric, Office of Exper. Sta 

Bull. 28. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Materials, 

U. S. Dept. of Agric, Office of Exper. Sta., Bull. 28 (Revised)! 
BiciiE and Kiebio. The Bacterial Content of the Flesh of Normal 

Beeves, Ztschr. f. Fleisch u. Milchhvg., 1912, vol. xxii, pp. 69-80. 
BrxTON. Some Postmortem Alterations of Meat, J. Roy. Inst. Pub. 

Health, 1911, vol. xix, pp. 60-469. 
Cook. A Comparison of Beef and Yeast Extracts of Known Origin, 

U. S. Dept of Agric, Bur. of Chem., 1910, Circular 62 
Emmett and Grindley. A Preliminary Study of the Effect of Cold 

Storage upon Beef and Poultry, J. Industr. & Eng. Chem., 1909, 

vol. 1, pp. 413-436, 580-597. 
Fabrixotox The Need of State and Municipal Meat Inspection to 

Supplement Federal Inspection, U. S. Dept. of Agric, Bur. of 

Animal Industry, 1908, Circular 154 

T 1?'"^'"/ '^' ^^"^"^ '^ ^^^^^^-* ^^*^-d« -f Cooking upon 
Uie Thoroujness and Ease of Digestion of Meat, U. S. Dept. 
w *>^Agnc Office of Exper. Sta., 1907, Bull. 193. 

mttS m. ""' """'" ^' ""'-'^ '^^^^^^^ ^^- ^^P- ^*-' 

V.lHe'^nf r'v * . ^'^'^"'' ^''"'"^^' Composition and I^utritive 
l^U^B^t^^^^^ ^^^ ^' ^'''^ ^"-- ^^- ^-P- Sta., 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 75I 

HoAOLAND. The Action of Saltpeter upon the Color of MmI, U. & 
Dept. of Agric., Bur. of Animal Induatry, gftih Ann. l{im.. 1008. 
pp. 301-314. r* ^ 

IloLMKs. Meat Supply and Surplun, U. S. Dept, of Agric, Bur. of 

Statistics, 1907, Bull. 55. 
Lanoworthy and Hunt. Mutton and Ite Value in the Diet, U. S. 

Dept. of Agric, Farmers* Bull., 1913, p. 526. 
Leighton and Douglas. The Meat Industry and Meat InapectioiL 
Melvin. The Federal Meat Inspection Service, U. 8. Dept of Afrie., 

Bur. of Animal Industry, 1JK)S, (Ircular 125. 
MouLTON. Changes in Composition of Mature Beef AnimaU during 

Fattening, Proc. 8th Internat. Congr. of Applied dicm., 1913, 

vol. xxvij pp. 157-168. 
EiCHARDsoN and Sherubel. The Detorioration and rommerrial Preaer- 

vation of Flesh Foods, J. Anicr. Chem. Soc., 1908, voL xxx^ 

pp. 1515-1564. 
' — . Deterioration and Commercial Preaenration of 

Flesh Foods, II ; The Storage of Beef at Temperatures Above the 

Freezing Point, J. Industr. k Engin. Chera., 1909, vol i, pp. 

95-102. 
Roberts. Annual Production of Animals for Food and Per Capita Con- 
sumption of Meat in the United States, U. S. Dept of Agric, 

Bur. of Animal Industry, 22d Ann. Rep., 1905, pp. 277-290. 
Trowbridge and Grindley. Proteins of Beef Flesh, J. Am. Chem. 

Soc, 1906, vol. xxviii, pp. 460-505. 
Wilder. The Modem Packing House. 
Wiley and Bigelow. Preserved Meats, IT. S. Dept. of Agric, Bur. of 

Chem., Bull. 13, part 10. 
Wright. Chemical and Bacteriological Study of Fresh and Frozen New 

Zealand Lamb and Mutton, J. Soc of Chem. Industry, 1919, 

vol. xxxi, pp. 965-967. 



CHAPTER XX 

UNUSUAL ANIMALS, BIRDS, RKPTILES VTr . SOMETIUES 

USED FOR FOOD 



Mammals: Armadillo; Am; Boar; IWnvor; nufTalo; Oitt Omd; DOft 
Elephant; Horse; Mule; IIii>po|M>Umu»; VMrih ling; Zti»ra; Kai^- 
roo; Lion; Lynx; Llama; Monkey; Miov; OpfjMttm; Mttdc 0%; 
Porcupine; Reindeer; RhinooeroH; RaU; Squirrrl; Whale; Walrw. 

Insects: Ants; Caterpillars; (iraHHhopporH; I..0CU11U; Mothft. 

Fowl: Ostrich; Peafowl; Pelican: Parrots; Cuckoo; Pef^pi^a; SwwMt 

Fish: Eels; Sharks; Shell Fish— Snailn. 

Reptiles: Crocodiles; Frogs; Snakes; Toads; TurtiM; Tortolan; VIm- 
yard Snails. 



The information here presented has been collected principally from 
the writings of Dr. Pavy(G4) and from various sources und worku on 
travel. This compilation, alphabetically arranged, shows that almoitt an 
endless variety of animals have been used as food in variooa parta of 
the world, and supplies in concise form what is kno>m regarding their 
edible qualities. In many instances, even today, their oonanmption 
occurs upon such an extensive scale as to justify their mention from an 
alimentary point of view. In many others, however, their mention ia 
recorded as a curiosity in dietetics. The statements here recorded are 
authenticated by reference to original sources found in the referenee 
bibliography at the end of the chapter. 

Agoutis. — The agoutis, found in the West Indies, Guiana and Brazil^ 
at the first settling in the West India Islands, were exceedingly numenms 
and constituted a great part of the food of the Indiana. The fleah ia 
white and tender, and, when well cooked, is much esteenjed hy the natirea. 

Albatross. — The albatross is eaten by the aborigines of Xow Zm- 
land(9). Its eggs are considered excellent (4). 

Armadillo. — The armadillo is eaten in South America, and ita fleah ia 
fat and excellent(5). The hunters roaat it in ito aheU(4). 

^ 763 



764 UNUSUAL AXIMALS USED FOR FOOD 

Amblyrhynchus. — Amblyrhynchus, a genus of lizard resembling the 
iguana found in the Galapagos Islands, is esteemed by the natives as a 
delicate kind of food (4). 

Axolotl — The axolotl of Mexico is esteemed an agreeable article of 
food, dressed like stewed eels (4). 

Ants. — White ants are eaten by the natives of Australia(12) and by 
tliose on the banks of the Zonga, where they are highly appreciated (34). 
The larvje of ants are eaten by the Bushmen (8). Scopoli speaks of the 
larvw of the musca putris as a dainty (48). Aelian mentions the cir- 
ounistance of an Indian king treating some of his Grecian guests (2) to 
the larvie of insects (48). The larvae of the Cerambyx heros is believed 
to be the cossus of the ancients, by whom it was considered a dainty (4). 

Bear. — The bear supplies food to several nations of Europe, and its 
hams are considered excellent (5). The flesh of the brown or black bear, 
which is eaten by the common people of Norway, Russia and Poland, is 
difficult to digest and is generally salted and dried before it is used (60). 
Two bears were eaten in Paris during the siege (10), and the flesh was 
supposed to taste like pig(14). The Indian tribes of the interior of 
Oregon eat bears(15). The Polar bear is stated by Sir John Ross to 
be particularly unwholesome, although the Esquimaux feed upon it with- 
out any apparent inconvenience (5). 

Bandicoot — The bandicoot is eaten by the aborigines of Australia (16) 
and by the lowest caste of IIindoos(4). 

Beaver — The flesh of the beaver is much prized by the Indians and 
Canadian traders, especially when it is roasted in the skin after the hair 
has been singed off (4). It is also used in South America, and is said 
to be an excellent food (60). 

Bison — The flesh of the bison, or European aurochs, was once the 
support of many Indian tribes; it nearly resembles ox beef, but is said 
to be of finer flavor and easier to digest. The hump is baked and eaten 
as a great delicacy (5). 

Biiffalo — In the remote past the flesh of the buffalo, or bison of North 
America, was eaten by the North American Indians (24), the Suma- 
trans(25), and the islanders of Savu(9). Catlin calculates that about 
250,000 North American Indians subsisted almost exclusively on this 
anima] throughout every part of the year(26). The beef is tough, dark 
colored and occasionally of a musky flavor. The chine is considered good 
and is eaten to some extent (5). 

Bustard.— The bustard is a good food and much esteemed in some 
p1ace9(4). 



MAMMALS, INSECTS, FOWL, FISH, KEPTILES 7W 

Birds' Nests — Birds' nesta of a 8iH«cial kind aro an article of food 
much prized in China on account of the nutritive properttca which tliay 
are supposed to possess. They are of u |(clatinou8 nature and efaiaflj oaed 
for making soup. They are furnislied by several npccica of swallow and 
are found in the caverns on the seashore of the Eastern Artihipelagou 
It has been ascertained that they oouHiHt in great part of a peculiar rumos 
which this bird secretes and disgor^vH from its mouth in great abun- 
dance. The nests adhere to tlic rock and are collected after the joung 
are fledged, with the help of bidders or ropea. The oleanalng of the neill 
for the markets is a long and tediouH process and a number of persona 
are employed at Canton in conducting the operation (37). The prepared 
article, which has the appearance of dried gelatinous-looking fragments, 
may be purchased in some of the I^ndon shops. 

Blaps — The blaps sulcata is eaten, cooked with butter, by the Egyp- 
tian women (4). They also eat the Scaraboms sacer to make themselTes 
become prolific (48). The women of Arabia and Turkey eat a 
of tenebrio fried in butter to make themselves plump(38). 

Bees. — Bees are eaten by various peoples (48). The Moors in 
Barbary consider the honeycomb, with young bees in it, delicious. One 
writer, however, thought it insipid and that it sometimes produced heart- 
burn (39). 

Cats. — Cats are eaten by the Chinese (9), and in the island of Sam 
are preferred to sheep and goats(9). Five thousand cats are said to 
have been eaten in Paris during the siege(lO). According to the aame 
authority, the cat is good food. A young one, well cooked, is better 
than hare or rabbit. It tastes something like the American gray squirrel, 
but is even tenderer and sweeter (10). 

Cavia — Several species of cavia, especially the guinea pig, the spotted 
cavy, the long-nosed cavy and the rock cavy, were once used as fnnd in 
Great Britain, Brazil and other parts of South America(60). 

Camel — Camel is eaten with relish in Africa, and its milk is believed 
to neutralize the injurious qualities of the date(6). The flesh is alleged 
to produce serious derangement of the stomach among the Arab8(27). 
A camel eaten during the siege of Paris is said to have tasted like 
veal (14). CameVs hump, which is spoken of as furnishing the deaert 
with a savory dish, may be procured in a preserved state at some of the 
dried provision establishments at the west end of T^ondon. 

Collard Pecari. — The collard pecari, or tajacti (Diootyles torqustus), 
an inhabitant of South America, is considered a good food, and its flesh 
greatly resembles pork. Dicotyles labiatus is also hunted by the nstivea 



766 UNUSUAL ANIMALS USED FOE FOOD 

of South America for food(4). The aborigines of the Amazon, however, 
who eat Dicotyles torquatus wiU not touch Dicotyles labiatus(2). 

Cuckoo The cuckoo is not an uncommon dish on the Continent, and 

the Arabs consider it a great delicacy(5). 

Crane. The crane was eaten by the Komans. It is mentioned in 

England as being served as a sumptuous dish at splendid entertain- 
ments as early as the Norman Conquest and as late as the reign of Henry 
VIII. At the Enthronization Feast of George Nevil, Archbishop of 
York, as Edward IV, there were served 204 cranes, 204 bitterns and 400 
heron8haw8(4). 

Cormorant. — The Manx, like the Scotch, make a rich soup out of this 

bird (42). 

Crocodile.— The crocodile is eaten and relished by the natives of parts 
of Africa (5) and Australia (3). Dr. Livingstone writes: "To us the 
idea of tasting the musky-scented, fishy-looking flesh carried the idea of 
cannibalism" (34). The eggs are dug out of the ground and devoured 
by the natives. Dr. Livingstone says of them: "In taste they resemble 
hens' eggs, with perhaps a smack of custard, and would be as highly 
relished by whites as by blacks were it not for their unsavory origin in 
men-eaters" (34). 

Cannibalism. — There is reason to believe that the practice of eating 
human flesh has not at all times been confined to the lowest savages, but 
it is difiicult to obtain much satisfactory information respecting it. 

There is little doubt that our ancestors, the ancient inhabitants of 
Britain, were guilty of eating human flesh. St. Jerome specially charges 
the Attacotti, a people of ancient Scotland, with preferring the shepherd 
to his flock(51). 

Anthuopophaoy Cannibalism in the New World. — ^During the 
winter of 1600 and 1610 famine with its horrors came to the Jamestown 
Colony in Virginia, and transformed the civilized Englishmen into can- 
nibals. According to Lossing(63) they subsisted on Indians, whom they 
slew and ate. Sometimes they even ate their own companions who had 
perished from hunger. 

In the present day the Polynesian Islands are the chief home of such 
cannibalism as still exists in the world. The Tannese say to anyone 
condemning their anthropophagous habits, "Pig's flesh is very good for 
you, but this is the thing for us." They distribute human flesh in little 
bits far and near among their friends as delicate morsels. Cannibal 
connoisseurs, it is asserted, prefer a black man to a white one, as the 
latter tastes 8alty(35). 



MAMIVFALS, INSECTS, FOWL, FISH, REPTILES 767 

Cicada— The cicada, an insect of the honioptcroiw group, was OAteii 
by the (;reeks(4). Pinto mentions a people who UHcd iVicn mi an articlo 

of food (48). 

Caterpillars.— These insects were eaten by the ancient l<om«tii, and 
are m lii«>h estimation amon^r tlie natives of South Africji(48) (40). 

Cuttlefish._Tho cuttlefish is used as a f<HKl in iome p«rU of 
Eur()pe(4). A bivalve allied to the oyster, caHed Anomia ephippium, 
which is found on the coasts of tlie Aledi terra nean is wjUMidrn-.! not 
inferior to the common oyster(37). 

Dogs — Dogs are eaten by the Chine8e( 1, 4, II), the New ZoiUnd- 
ers(ll), the South Sea l8landor8(9), some African trib«i(9) and by 
certain hill tribes in the Philippines. One thousand and two hundred 
dogs, it is stated, were eaten in Paris during the 8iege(10) and the 
flesh brought from two to three francs per pound(38). Wild dfipi nro 
eaten by the natives of Australia (12). In New Zealand(ll) and ibo 
South Sea Islands(9) the dogs are specially fed and fattened, and Euro- 
pean dogs are considered unpalatable(ll). Captain Cook lookwl upon 
a South Sea dog as little inferior to an English lamb(9). Fattened 
dogs' flesh is a favorite food of the Warori, an African tribe(13). 

Dugong — The Indian dugong is considered good food (4). 

Elk — The elk is eaten in Norway, Lapland and Sweden, wln-n' ix» 
flesh is much esteemed (60). The young are said to be particularly 
delicious (4). The tongue and nose are considered great delicacie«(4). 

Elephant — The elephant is eaten in Abyssinia and other part* of 
Africa, also in Sumatra (5). Some steaks that were cut off Cluinee, the 
elephant that was shot at Exeter Exchange, on being cooked were declared 
to be "pleasant meat" (5). The three elephants that were eaten in Paria 
during the siege were pronounced a great success. The liver was con- 
sidered finer than that of any goose or duck(14). Dr. Livingstone 
writes : "We had the foot cooked for breakfast the next morning, and 
found it delicious. It is a whitish mass, sliglitly gelatinous and aweet, 
like marrow. A long march, to prevent biliousness, is a wise precaution 
after a meal of elephant's foot. Elephant's trunk and tongue are alao 
good, and after a long simmering much resemble the. hump of a buffalo 
and the tongue of an ox; but all the other meat is tough, and from ita 
peculiar flavor only to be eaten by a hungry man"(.*U). 

Earth Eating — Earth eating may be appropriately referred to here, 
as some earth used as food in certain localities has lieen found to con- 
sist, in part, of the remains of minute animal organisms. Humboldt, 
on his return from the Kio Negro, saw a tribe of Ottomacs who lived 



768 UNUSUAL ANIMALS USED FOR FOOD 

principally during the rainy season upon a fat unctuous clay which 
they found in their district(54). This appears to have consisted of a 
red, earthy matter (hydrous silicate of alumina), called "bole.'' It is 
also eaten by the Japanese after being made into thin cakes, called 
"tanaampo," which are often oflFered for sale. These cakes are bought 
and eaten by the women to give them slenderness of form (4). Ehren- 
berg found that this earth consisted for the most part of the remains of 
microscopic animals and plants which had been deposited from fresh 
water. A kind of earth known as bread meal, which consists for the 
most part of the empty shells of minute infusorial animalcules, is still 
largely eaten by the lower classes in Northern Europe; and a similar 
substance, called mountain meal, has been used in Northern Germany 
in times of famine as a means of staying hunger. The Wanyamwezi, a 
tribe living in Central Africa, eat clay in the intervals between meals. 
They prefer the clay of ant-hills. 

The colored inhabitants of Sierra Leone also devour the red earth 
of which the ant-hills are composed (55). Johnston asserts that the 
African earth did not injure the negroes, but that when they were car- 
ried as slaves to the West India Islands they were found to suffer in 
their health from the clay they there used as a substitute (56). It has 
been found that much of the clay eaten by many of the inhabitants of 
the torrid zone is mere dirt and has no alimentary value. The Agmara 
Indians eat a whitish clay, which is rather gritty, and has been shown 
by careful analysis to be destitute of any organic matter which might 
afford nutriment (14). One of the earliest notices of the practice of dirt" 
eating is given by Sir Samuel Argoll, with respect to Virginia, in 1613. 
"In this joumie," he says, "I likewise found a myne, of which I have 
sent a triall into England ; and likewise a strange kind of earth the virtue 
whereof I know not, but the Indians eate it for Physicke, alleging that 
it cureth the sicknesse and paine of the belly" (57). In Guinea the 
negroes eat a yellowish earth called cavuac. In the West Indies a white 
clay like tobacco pipe clay is eaten, and this the eaters prefer to spirits 
or tobacco(58). In 1751 a species of red earth or yellow tufa is 
reported to have been still secretly sold in the markets of Martinique (56). 

Earth Hog — The earth hog (Orycteropus Capensis) is a native of the 
Cape of Good Hope. Although its food (ants) gives its flesh a strong 
Uate of formic acid, it is relished both by the Hottentots and Europeans. 
The hind quarter is especially esteemed when cured as ham (4). 

Frogi.— -Frogs are eaten by the Chinese(9), the natives of Aus- 
tralia(12) and many other countries. The Eana esculenta is highly 



MAMMALS, INSECTS, FOWL, FISH, UKPTILE8 7(» 

prized in France for its hind legs, which are Uie part Mteo. Thmb maj 
be seen sometimes skewered together in Uie windows of toaie of tba pio- 
vision establishmentH of Paris. Att,.nipU have been made at different 
times to acclimatize the Kana e.H<-iilcnU in Knjcland. Thia met with 
some success in Cambridgeshire, where it ia said their very remarkable and 
sonorous croak lias pnx'urcd for thcin the title of the "Cambridgnbira 
nightingales" (01). The Kana taiirina, or bull-frog, ia a natire of North 
America and is higlily prized and thought by the Americana to rival 
turtle(39). This large edible frog baa long aince been iulroduoed into 
France by the ScK'it'tc d\\cclimatisatinn(37). A large frog, called "Mat- 
lametlo/' which when cooked looks and taste** lil** "hicken, ia eaten by tbe 
South Americans (40). 

Grasshoppers — Grasshoppers are eaten by the Buahmen(3). 

Gull — The flesh of the gull eaten before it can fly ia excellent 
Later it becomes fishy. It is often brought to market in Itonian Cathulio 
countries during Lent (4). The eggs of the Xema ridibunda are well 
flavored and the young birds were at one time in high repute in England 
at the tables of the wealthy (4). 

Grubs — Grubs of all kinds are eaten by the natives of Aiiatralia(lS, 
16), and the chrysalis of the silkworm is eaten by the Chine8e(48). 

Hedgehog — The hedgehog is considered a princely dish in Barbery, 
and is eaten in Spain and Germany (5, 60). It is frequently eaten by tbe 
sick among the African Arabs, in the belief that its flesh is medicinal(7). 

Hippophagfy. — Horse flesh is eaten largely by varioua nationa. The 
Indian horsemen of the Pampas live entirely on tbe fleah of tbeir 
mares and eat neither bread, fruit nor vegetables (31). Horae fleah 
is eaten by the Jakuts of Northern Siberia (28), the Tartars and native* 
of South America (5) and by the Islanders of Sa\'u(9). Mr. Bick- 
nell, in his paper on ''The Horse as Food for Man"(39), mentions 
fifteen European states, besides France, where horse flesh is eaten. Tbe 
Icelanders have practiced hippophagy since the eighth century. Tbe 
Russians have always eaten horses, and in Denmark the people returned 
to the custom of their forefathers in 1807. Wurtemburg was tbe firrt 
of the German states to adopt the practice and commenced it in 1841. 
Bavaria, Baden, Hanover, Bohemia, Saxony, Austria and Prussia fol- 
lowed in subsequent years. A Berlin newspaper in 1863 reporta that 
there are at the present time "8e\'en markets for borae fleab in tbat citr, 
in which, during the first ten months of 1862, there were aeren bimdred 
and fiftv horses slaughtered. No horse is allowed to be alangbtered and 
sold without the certificate of a veterinary surgeon*'(32). Tbe Health 



770 UNUSUAL AXIMALS USED FOE FOOD 

Department of Xew York City has recently (1916) allowed the sale of 
horse llesh in the city markets. 

According to Pliny, the Komans at one time ate the ass. The wild 
ass is still in much esteem among the Persians, who consider it as equal 
to veni8on(5). One thousand donkeys and two thousand mules are 
reported to have been eaten in Paris during the siege(lO). The flesh 
of the latter is delicious and far superior to beef. Koast mule is, in fact, 
an exquisite dish(:32). Ass's flesh forms the basis of the renowned 
sausages of Bologna (37). At a banquet given by an Academician in 
Paris, having MM. Velpeau, Tardieu, Latour and other notabilities as 
guests, the "bifticks" and ''fllets'' prepared from the flesh of an old she- 
ass were unanimously pronounced, it is stated, to be more tender, succu- 
lent and delicate than similar plates prepared for comparison, from the 
horse(32). 

Hippopotamus. — The flesh of the hippopotamus supplies a substantial 
meal to the African, and when young is delicate, but when old is coarse, 
fat and strong and inferior to beef (5). The young meat is much esteemed 
by the Hottentots and natives of Abyssinia (4). Dr. Livingstone writes: 
**The hip|K)potamus hunters form a separate people, called Akombwi or 
Mapodzo, and rarely — the women, it is said, never — intermarry with any 
other tribe. The reason for their keeping aloof from certain of the 
natives on the Zambesi is obviously enough, some having as great an 
abhorrence of hippopotamus meat as Mohammedans have of swine's 
flesh" (34). The hippopotamus that was killed and partly burnt in the 
fire at Crystal Palace, London, a few years back, was eaten by Dr. Cripp 
and some of his friends, who reported that the flavor of the flesh was 
excellent and its color whiter than any veal (14). 

Holothuriae — Holothuriie (sea cucumbers) are eaten largely by the 
rhine8e(l), the natives of the Indian Archipelago (4), the Australians (4) 
and South Sea Islanders (47). They are also taken on the coast of 
Naples and eaten by the poorer inhabitants (4). 

Iguana — The iguana inhabits South America and the West Indies, 
where it is esteemed a delicate food(4), although it has been generally 
considered unwhole8ome(30). Its eggs are nutritious and agreeable (60). 

Jerboa.— The common jerboa (Dipus Egyptius) is eaten by the Arabs, 
who esteem its flesh among their greatest dainties(60). The Alagtaga 
(Dipns .Taculns) is larger than the common jerboa, and called by the 
Arabs the lamb of the Israelites. Many authors consider it to be the 
coney ..f tlir S^-riptures, a kind of rabbit, and the mouse of Isaiah(4). 



MAMMALS, INSKCTS, FOWL. riSTT |»ri'Tiri.^ .;i 

Kalong.— The kalong, or edible luu.., i.,- ,» „^h^.,.-m ni L»ai;, u abun- 
dant in Java and is valuwl uh f(Hul hv the iiutivoi. TIm! (Usah l» white, 
delicate and tender, but generally imbued with a luiiell of miuik(4). 

Kangaroos.— Kan^ranHw are eaten by the alMirifntitt of AuiitniH«(18, 
10), and their llcsh is considered excollpnt. Soup macii! frtim llic Uil 
is reputed to be far superior to ox-tail H4iup(4;. It in imported into 
England with the Australian meat in sealed tins. Three kanganm wm 
eaten in Paris dnrin^: the 8iojre(10). The wombat ia eaten hy the 
natives of Australia(12) and its flesh iH said lo be pit*ferable to that of 
all other animals of Australia(4). Wallabies are alao eaten by the natives 
of Australia (5). 

Lion. — The lion is eaten sometimes in Africa, but its fleah b not 
good(6). 

Lizards — Lizards are eaten by the Chinese (9), the Buahmen(3) and 
the natives of Australia (12). 

Llama — The flesh of the llama is said to resemble mutton(nO). 

Locusts. — Locusts are eaten in great quantities, both fresh and 
salted (39). They have a strongly vegetable taste, the flavor varying? 
with the plants on which they feed. Dr. Livingstone considered them 
palatable when roasted (40). They are eaten by the Persians, K^'ptians 
and Arabians(48), the Bushmen(:3) and North American Indians(4.H), 
and by many others. Diodorus Siculus and Ludolpbus both refer to a 
race of people in Ethiopia supporting themselves upon ]ocusta(48). 
Ludolphus remarks : '*For it is a very wholesome and sweet sort of diet, 
by means of which a certain Portuguese garrison in India, that was ready 
to yield for want of provision, held out till it was relieved another way.** 
Madden states in his "Travels": "The Arabs make a sort of bread of 
locusts. They dry them and grind them into powder, then mix this 
powder with water, forming them into round cakes, which aerve for 
bread.'^ 

Lynx. — The Canadian 1\tix is eaten by the Indians, and its flesh is 
said to be white, tender and to resemble that of the American harp(4). 

Manatee. — The manatee, sea-cow, or woman-fish, a native of the seas 
of the West Indies and South America, is said to be an excellent food(4). 
Dr. Vogel found the flesh very well flavored and the fat like pork(14). 
Payen states that the flesh is whitish and good to eat, and that the ani- 
mal's milk has an agreeable flavor (27). 

Marmot. — The marmot of the Alps affords nourishment to the poorer 
inhabitants of T^Tol, Savoy and other parts. Three other species arc 



772 UNUSUAL ANIMALS USED FOK FOOD 

also eaten, namely, the Maryland Marmot, Bobath, and the Cassin or 
Earless Marmot (60). 

Mice and Rats Mice and rats are eaten in Asia, Africa (5), Aus- 

tralia(12) and New Zealand(ll), and considered delicate morsels. The 
taste of rats is pronoimced to be somewhat like that of birds (10). The 
Chinese eat them(l), and to the Esquimaux epicures the mouse is a real 
bonne houche(d). Rats and mice were eaten in Paris during the 
8iege(10). 

Monkeys. — Monkeys are eaten by the Chinese(l), the natives of 
Ceylon(3), the Indians, the negroes and whites in Trinidad(3), the 
Dyaks of Borneo(3), the Africans of the Gold Coast (3), the aborigines 
of the Amazon (2) and the Indians of British Guiana (4). The flesh is 
said to be palatable(5). Algot Lang, an explorer in the upper Amazon, 
told the author in 1915 that he had often eaten grilled monkey with relish. 

Moths — Moths of several varieties are eaten by the natives of Aus- 
tralia (12) ; one species, called Bugong, is said to be more prized by the 
Australian than any other sort of food. The bodies of these insects, it 
is stated, are large and contain a quantity of oil; they are sought after 
as a luscious and fattening food (12, 48). 

Mask-ox — Captain Ross considered the flesh of the musk-ox excel- 
lent and free from any particular musky flavor, though the skin has a 
strong smell (5). The tongue and nose are considered great delicacies (4). 

Opossum. — The opossum is eaten in America (5), Australia (16, 12, 
5) and the West Indian Islands. Young ones are roasted for the table, 
and the flesh is white and of good flavor (5). They are considered 
by the natives of South America equally as good for food as the flesh of 
the hare or rabbit, especially the Virginian opossum (60). The Southern 
negroes prize it very highly as a food. 

Ostrich. — The ostrich affords an abundant banquet to many savage 
nations of Africa, where it is sometimes kept in a tame state for breed- 
ing(5). Dr. Livingstone writes that the flesh is white and coarse. When 
in good condition it resembles in some degree that of a turkey(40), but 
the flesh is only good when young, for when it is full grown the bird is 
very fat(4). Three ostriches were eaten in Paris during the siege(lO). 

Parrots and Cockatoos — Parrots and cockatoos are eaten by the natives 
of Au8tralia(12). The flesh of parrots, when young, is delicate and is 
largely eaten in Brazil (5). Toucans are eaten by the aborigines of the 
Amazon (2) and in Brazil (4). 

Pea-fowl — The pea-fowl is occasionally eaten, and its flesh is reputed 
to be good, but the beauty of the peacock's plumage renders it too valu- 



MAMAIALS, INSECTS, FOWI^ FISH, REPTILES 773 

able a bird to form an ordinary article of food. In oldoti timet tho pat- 
cock occupied its place at the table m one of the diaheg in the teeood 
course at every great feast. At the present time a few of the old eokmiel 
homes in the South grow the pea-fowl for the tabla The author btt often 
eaten roasted pea-fowl, which ei]ual8 roast turkey in delseMsy. 

Pelican — The pelican is eaten by the natives of A'uatnilia(12 ). 

Penguins— Penguins are eaten by the abonginee of New ZmlandCJ). 

Porcupine — The porcupine is considered delicioua UhmI in South 
America and India and resembles the sucking pig(ri). The Dutch and 
Hottentots are fond of it(.'J) and it is fre<iuently brougfit to the table at 
the Cape of Good Hope(60). It is eaten in Sicily and if«lu(60) and 
sold in the markets of Ilome(5). 

Reindeer — The reindeer is eaten in Siberia (28) and is tlie favorite 
food of the Esquimaux(19). It is the principal nourishment of the Lap- 
landers. The tongues are excellent when salted and the milk is sweet 
and nourishing(60). The sinewy parts of stags are highly prized by tbe 
wealthy Chinese (29). 

Rhinoceros. — Rhinoceros is eaten in Abyssinia and by tome of tbe 
Dutch settlers in the Cape Colony. It is in higli esteem(3). 

Seal — The seal is all in all to the Greenlander and E8quimauz(4). 
It is eaten by the Kamschadales(4), the inhabitants of the coast of Loibni- 
dor (17), Vancouver Island (18), etc. Its flesh is coarse and oily; never- 
theless, it was formerly served up at feasts in England, together witl\ 
the porpoise(5). The liver, when fried, is esteemed by sailors as an 
agreeable dish (4). A seal eaten during the siege of Paris was said to 
taste like lamb(14). 

Sharks — Sharks dre eaten by the Gold Coast negroes(S) and the 
natives of New Zealand (11), but not by the natives of western Ane- 
tralia(3). The natives of the Polynesian Islands feast on them in a 
raw state and gorge themselves so as to cause vomiting(3). Dr. Hector 
writes as follows of edible sharks: 'The Maoris are large oontiuiiers of 
sharks, or mango, as they term them, of various species, bat diieflr the 
smooth-hound (Mustellus antarcticus), dogfish of two species (Scyllium 
laticeps and Acanthias vulgaris) and the Tope. 

"Galeus canis, a species of seal, may be seen at certain seeaoos at 
any Maori settlement by the seaside, hanging on poles in thooMnda, 
and rendering the neighborhood extremely unpleasant. The species moat 
valued is, however, the 8mooth-houn<l. It is the only shark which is 
properly edible, as it lives on shellfish and crabs and has the same clean 
feeding habits as the skate. In the Hebrides and north of Scotland 



774 UNUSUAL ANIMALS USED FOE FOOD 

the flesh of this harmless little shark is considered to be a great deli- 
cacy, but I have never heard of its being eaten by the white settlers in 
the colony'' (-^5). The fins of sharks are highly prized by the wealthy 
Chincsc(20). 

Sloths. — Sloths are eaten by the natives of Australia (12). 

Snail — The vineyard snail (Helix pomatia) is used as food in many 
parts of Europe during Lent (4). It is reared and fattened with great 
care in some cantons in Switzerland as an article of luxury and exported 
in a pickled state. Many other snails are eaten by the poor, and none 
are known to be hurtful (30). The common garden snail (Helix 
aspersa) is used in some parts as a cure for diseases of the chest(4). 
Snails on the Continent, and even slugs in China, have a reputation for 
delicacy and nutritive power (46). Garden snails may be found on the 
menus of fasliionable New York restaurants. 

Snakes. — Snakes are eaten by the Chinese (1), the natives of Aus- 
tralia (12), and by those of many other countries, but the flesh is reckoned 
unwholesome and liable to occasion leprosy (3). A nutritious broth for 
invalids is made in some places from the flesh of the poisonous viper(39). 

Spiders — Spiders are eaten by the Bushmen and the inhabitants of 
New Caledonia (3). Several species of beetles are eaten by women of 
different nations, in the belief that they will cause them to grow fat and 
become prolific in child-bearing. 

Spotted Crake. — The spotted crake, or speckled water hen, is highly 
esteemed in France for the flavor of its flesh. Few birds can match it 
in autumn as a rich morsel for the table(4). 

Squirrels — The squirrel is eaten by the natives of Australia (12), the 
North American Indians(23), and is a favorite dish in Sweden and Nor- 
way (5). The flesh is said to be tender and to resemble that of a barn- 
yard fowl(60). It is sometimes eaten by the lower classes in England(5) 
and in the United States, and when fried, broiled or stewed makes an 
appetizing morsel. 

Swans — Swans were eaten by the ancients, and often appeared of 
old at great banquets in England. They are eaten by the natives of 
Au8tralia(12), and the flesh of the cygnet, which is said to have a flavor 
resembling both the- goose and the hare, is still considered a delicacy in 
Europe (4). 

Swordflsh.— The flesh of the swordfish (Ziphias Platypterus of Shaw) 
waa known in early tinies as an article of food, and its fame is not unde- 
sen-ed. The flesh near the vertebrae is pale salmon-colored, and any 
epicure of fish might- be recommended to try a cutlet from it. Lower 



MAIMMALS, INSECTS, FOWL, FISH, REPTILES 775 

down it is red and like ooarso beef(43). A Hpccien of Smru*, or pirrot 
lish, was highly esteemed by the Koiiiaii epicuron, and tb© (Jrcdu ftill 
cousider it to be a tish of exqiUHito tlavor(4). 

Tapir — The North American Indian compares the fleah of the faptr 
to beef (5). Altliough much esteenuMl, it ia conaidered by the inhabitanU 
of South America to l)o inferior to lHM'f(6()). 

Toad — The toad is eaten by the nc*groea(5), and a apocic* caiW iUnm 
bombina is eaten in some phices like tiHh(39). 

Tortoise — Land tortoises are eaten by the natives of th'e Ama2iin(2), 
of India(4), of South Africa(4(n and by the \«irth Anifriciin In- 
dians (43). Payeu considers the tlesh of the tortoine a wbohriifnie 
food(37) and Dr. Livingstone found it a very agreeable diah(40). It 
is said to resemble veal (40). 

Trionyx Ferox — The flesh of the trionyx ferox ia considerpd very 
delicate food, and on the coasts of North America it ia angled for with 
a hook and line baited with small lish (4). 

Turtle. — The flesh of the marine turtle is largely eaten and highly 
esteemed, besides yielding in this country the choiceat of aoups. The 
fresh-water turtle abounds in the marshes of Provence on the ahorea of 
the Rhone and in Sardinia (37), and is eaten by the inhabitanta, as it is 
by the natives of Australia (12). 

Walrus The walrus is eaten by the Esquimaux(19) and higlily 

appreciated by Arctic explorers (20). 

Whale — The whale is eaten lar«^ely by the natives of Western Aus- 
tralia, New Zealand (3), the poorer sort of Japane8e(21), the rude lit- 
toral tribes of Northern Asia and America (3), the nativea of Van- 
couver Island(18) and the Esquiniaux(3). Blubl)er ia u.so<l n» food in 
Vancouver Island(18) and by the E3quimaux(22). The blubber and 
flesh of the narwhal, or sea unicorn, is considered a great delicacy by 
the Greenlander(4). 

Wolves. — Wolves are forbidden among the African Arabs, but are not 
infrequently eaten by sick persons, in the belief that their flesh is 
medicinal (7). The mountaineers of the American Sahara eat the amall 
prairie wolf (canis Latrans). 

The Zulus. The Zulus are so fond of carrion, or decomposed flesh 

with worms in it, that, according to a letter of Archbishop Colenso, pub- 
lished in the London Times, they uso<l their word (ubomi), representing 
it as a synonym for their highest notion of happine88(36). 



776 UNUSUAL AMMALS USED FOB FOOD 

EEFEKENCES 

1. BowRiNO, Sir John. The Population of China, Statistical Soc. J., 

vol. XX, pp. 41 — 53. 

2. Wallace, A. R. Narrative of Travels on the Amazon and Rio 

Negro, London, 1859, pp. 485—485—485—485—485. 

3. SiMMONDS, P. L. The Curiosities of Food; or, the Dainties and 

Delicacies of Different Nations Obtained from the Animal 
Kingdom, London, 1859, pp. 38—38—92. 

4. Baird, W. Cyclopaedia of Natural Sciences, London, 1858, pp. 171, 

et seq, 

5. Webster, T. An Encyclopaedia of Domestic Economy, London, 

1844, pp. 379—439—224—220—197—315. 

6. Daumas. The Horses of the Sahara and the Manners of the 

Desert, translated by James Hutton, London, 1863, pp. 308 — 
304. 

7. Lyon, G. F. A Narrative of Travels in North Africa in 1818- 

1820, London, 1821, pp. 62—51. 

8. Burton, R. F. The City of the Saints, and Across the Rocky 

Mountains to California, London, 1861, pp. 38 — 38 — 80. 

9. Cook, Captain. Cook's First Voyage in : Hawkesworth's Voyages, 

3 vols., London, 1773, pp. 196—196—447—688—688—688 
—761—761—761. 

10. Shepard, N. Shut Up in Paris, London, 1871, pp. 299—219—219. 

11. DiEFFENBACH, E. Travcls in New Zealand, 2 vols., London, 1843, 

pp. 17—17—43. 

12. Eyre, E. J. Journal of Expeditions of Discovery into Central 

Australia in 1840-1841, 2 vols., London, 1845, pp. 250— 
250 — 250 — 250 — 250 — 250 — 250 — 250 — 250 — 250 
—250—251—251. 

13. Burton, R. F. The Lake Regions of Central Africa: A Picture 

of Exploration, 2 vols., London, 1860, pp. 28 — 273. 

14. Food Journal, London, pp. 240 — 370. 

16. Wilkes, C. Narrative of the United States Exploring Expedition, 
1838-1842, 5 vols., London, 1845, p. 452. 

16. Dawson, R Present State of Australia, 1830, pp. 67—67. 

IT. Hind, H. Y. Explorations in the Interior of the Labrador Penin- 
sula, 2 vols., London, 1863, p. 4. 



18 
19 

20 



MAMMALS, INSECTS, FOWI^ FISU, ItEPTlLES 777 

Sproat, G. M. Scenes and Studies of Savage Life, London, 1868, 

pp. 53—61—486. 

Lubbock, Sir John, rrehintoric Timcn, aH Illuiitralcd by Ancient 
licmains, and the Manners and Cuatoma of Modern BaTagea, 

London, 1809, pp. 485—485. 

Kane, E. K. Arctic Explorations: The Seoond Orinnell Eipedi- 
tion in Search of Sir John Franklin, 1858-1866, 2 vola., Phila- 
delphia, 1856, p. 15. 

21. TiiuNBERo, C. P. Travels in Europe, Africa, and Aaia, 1870-1870, 

4 vols., London, 1895, p. .35. 

22. Richardson, Sib John. Arctic Searching Expedition, 2 Tola., 

London, 1851, p. 243. 

23. Schoolcraft, H. R. Historical and Statistical Information Re- 

specting the History, Condition, and Prospects of Indian Tribes 
of the United States, 3 vols., Philadelphia, 1851-1853, p. 250. 

24. Sullivan, E. Rambles and Scrambles in North and South Amer- 

ica, London, 1852, p. 122. 

25. Marsden, W. The History of Sumatra, London, p. 56. 

26. Catlin, G. Letters on North American Indians, 2 vols., London, 

1842, p. 122. 

27. Tennent, Sir Emerson. Ceylon: An Account of the Island, 

Physical, Historical and Topographical, 2 vols., London, 1859, 
p. 76. 

28. Wrangell, F. von. Narrative of an Expedition to the Polar Sea 

in 1820-1823, edited by Lieut. Col. Edward Sabine, Ix)ndon, 
1844, pp. 23—75. 

29. Barrow, Sir John. Travels in China, London, 1806, pp. 551, 

et seq. 

30. Journal of the Society of Arts, London. 

31. Head, Sir F. P>. Journeys across the Pampas, 1828, p. 120. 

32. Medical Times and Gazette, Tx>ndon, pp. 140 — 142. 

33. Sarcey, F. Paris during the Siege, London, 1871. 

34. Livingstone. Narrative of an Expedition to the Zambeai and its 

Tributaries, 1858-1864, London, 1865, pp. 39—169 — I4S— 
452—465. 

35. KoLBEN, P. Present State of the Cape of Good Hope, London, 

1731, p. 83. 

36. Quarterly Review, London, p. 424. 



778 UNUSUAL ANIMALS USED FOE FOOD 

37. Payen, a. Precis Theorique et Pratique des Substances Alimen- 

taires, Paris, 1865, pp. 36—162. 

38. The Lancet, London, vol. iii. 

39. Encycloptrdia Britannica, Seventh Edition, 21 vols., Edinburgh, 

1842, pp. 340—724—724—727. 

40. Livingstone. Missionary Travels and Kesearches in South Africa, 

Tx)ndon, 1857, pp. 42—42—135—156—542. 

41. Archfpologia, pub. by the Society of Antiquaries, London. 

42. Teionmoutii. Sketches of the Coasts and Islands of Scotland and 

the Isle of Man, 2 vols., London, 1836, p. 220. 

43. LosKiEL, G. H. History of the Mission of the United Brethren 

among the Indians in North America, 3 parts, London, 1794, 
pp. 32—32—65—65. 

44. Simpson, Sir George. Narrative of a Journey Kound the World 

during the Years 1841-1842, 2 vols., London, 1847. 

45. Hector, James (Geological Survey Department). Fishes of New 

Zealand : Notes on the Edible Fishes, Wellington, 1872, pp. 120, 
et seq. 

46. Letiieby. On Food: Cantor Lectures, London, 1870. 

47. ScHERZER, K. Narrative of the Circumnavigation of the Globe in 

the Austrian Frigate "Novara" in 1857-1859, 3 vols., London, 
1861-1863, p. 568. 

48. Transactions of the Entomological Society, London, volume iii, p. 

129. 

49. Andrews (of Wyntown). The Orygynal Cronykil of Scotland 

(with notes by David Macpherson), 2 vols., London, 1795. 

50. Lindsay, Robert (of Pitscottie). The Chronicles of Scotland, 

edited by J. G. Dalyell, Edinburgh, 1814. 

51. Chambers, R. The Book of Days, 2 vols., Edinburgh. Page 688. 

52. Chambers' Encyclopaedia, 10 vols., London, 1868. 

53. Turner, Rev. George. Nineteen Years in Polynesia, London, 

1861. 

54. Humboldt, Alexander von. Views of Nature, translated by E. C. 

Otte and H. G. Bohn, London, 1850, pp. 4 — 43. 

55. Journal of the Statistical Society, London, p. 72. 

56. Johnston, J. F. W. Chemistry of Common Life, revised by G. H. 

Lewes, 2 vols., Ix)ndon, 1859, p. 201. 

57. Abgoll, Sir Samuel. Touching his Voyage to Virginia, 1613 

(Purchas his Pilgrimes, vol. iv, p. 1765). 



MAABEALS, INSECTS, FOWI^ FISH, REPTILES 779 

58. Encyclopaxlia Met ropoli tana, 25 volg., T/)ndon, 1H45, p. 550, 

59. Galt. Medical Notea of tl»o UpiK»r Aninr^m, piiU. in Am. J. Med. 

Sci., and quoted in the Lano(»t, l)«\ 14, IH72. 

60. FoKSYTH, J. S. Dirtionarv of Diet, I^mdoDy 1836. 

61. Nature (a weekly pericKlical, I^ondon), pp. 488^520. 

62. Mauritius. Transactiona of Royal Society of Art* and Sci< 

63. LossiNo, B. J. Our (\)untry, vol. i, chap, ii, p. W\. 

64. Pavy, William. \V<>rk on Foo<1s, I^>nd<»n. 



51 



INDEX 



Abies Nigra or black Hpriico. 667. 
Absinthe, composition of. 6HH. 

injurious effects of, 580. 
Absorption, actual course of, 1«4. 
of bread, 387. 
by capillary blood vessels of the villus, 

172. 
of carbohydrates, 184. 

behavior of intestinal wall to, 18«. 
course of, in system, 185. 
in stomach, 185. 
changes in organic foods during, 177. 
course of, in cecum, 167. 
duodenal, 166. 
in ileum, 167. 
in lower intestinal, 166. 
in stomach, 164. 
and dialysis, 204. 
and diffusion, 204. 
energy controlling, 178. 
of fats, 169, 459. 
extent of, 182. 

function of leucocytes in, 181. 
lost fraction in, i81. 
manner of, 178. 
mechanism of, 178. 
part played by bile and pancreatic 

juice in process of, 180. 
processes involved in, 183. 
theories of, 178. 
and filtration, 207. 
of fruits, 479. 
in large intestine, 174. 

of fats, 176. 
of legumes, 441. 
as a living and not mechanical action, 

208. 
Ivmphatic, 171. 
of milk, 312. 
modern theory of, 202. 
and osmosis, 172, 204. 
of peptones, 168. 

percentage of protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrates ab.sorbed from dry sub- 
stances in various foods, 163. 
physical and chemical agencies formerly 

held in explanation of, 204. 
physiological test of digestibility of 

food, 162. 
physiology of, 161. 

of proteins, accompanying changes of 
villus and epithelium, 189. 



AhfMirption. of proMM, 
pqttoocM, 104. 

aminoHiddfl mulUnff from bjdrolyato 
of complex protoiM, IM. 

muriM> of cmino-arids la.qrilni, IM. 

extent of reduction bdiori^ 190. 

final proeeMWs of, tOS. 

foreign. 190. 

form of, 189. 

in form of amino-aeidt, 196. 

mnnner of, 188. 

normal cf>urse of, 198. 

normal formH of, after, 194. 

rtintion of amino ariiU to. 19f, 19t. 

relation of, to infant'* diet, 190. 
of ptomaina, 068. 
quantity and quality of fon<l inirrttted. 

161. 
of rice, 390. 

rAle of white blood eorpoaclea in, 203. 
of saline solutiona, 109. 
of salts. 168. 
in small intestine, power of, 174. 

of 8aline solutionfl and watrr, 100. 
in stomach, 141, 163. 
of 8ugar, 168. 

of vegetable fata and oiU, 467. 
of vegetable foods, 371. 
of water, 167, 169. 

in large intestine, 175. 

lymphatic, 171. 
Acetic acid, 95. 
Acids, acetic, 67. 
amino-, 67. 
amino-acetic, 67. 
aminopropionic, 67, 68. 
entering into formation of ftjneerin 
esters of fats and oils. 98. 

caproic acid. 99. 

caprylic and capric acida, 99. 

erucic acid, 99. 

hypogeic acid, 99. 

lauric acid, 99. 

oleic acid, 99. 

muriatic acid, 99. 

palmitic acid, 99. 

stearic acid, 99. 
in fruits. 477. 
of meat, 278. 

organic. See Orgnaic Adds. 
phytic. 100. 
propionic, 67. 
Acorns, 506, 657. 
Acrodynia, simulated by rrgotnun, 675. 



781 



782 



INDEX 



Actinomycosis, etiology of, 679. 
Adulterated foods, and adulterants of, 

table of, 686, 687. 
Adulterants, of food, 682. 
Adulteration, 68.3. 

of beverages, 683. 

of bread, 68.3. 

of butter, 68.3. 

in canning of foods, 684. 

of cocoa, 683. 

of coffee, 683. 

of honey, 684. 

of lard,* 683. 

of liqueurs, 683. 

of malt liquors, 682. 

of maple sirup, 683. 

of olive oil, 683. 

of pickles, 6.52. 

of sirup and molasses, 625. 

of teas, 683. 

types of. 681. 

of wine, 682. 
Aesculus hippocastanum or horse chest- 
nut, 657. 
Agar agar, 451. 
Agoutis, as food, 763. 
Agriculture, early, in America, 34. 

influence of, upon civilization, 36. 

introduction of, 33. 

primitive milling, 36. 

stationary, 34. 

use of fertilizers, among early Indians, 
36. 
Alanin, 70. 

formula of, 67. 
Albatross, as food, 763. 
Albuminoids, 55, 78. 

definition of, 696. 
Albumins, 75. 

Albumoses, absorption of, 194. 
Albumosuria, causation of, 192. 
Alcohol, absolute, 569. 

amount of, capable of complete oxidiza- 
tion, 582. 

amy He, 93. 

composition of, 93. 

conversion of monosaccharide into, 85. 

cumulative e'ect of, 592. 

cyclic, 93. 

effect of, on digestion and secretion, 574. 
on excretory organs, 581. 
upon the heart, 570. 
on mental processes, 580. 
on metabolism. 580. 
on muscular activity, 573, .592. 
on temperature, 572. 

ethyl, 93, 569. 

M» a fat-sparer, 578, 

food value of, 93, 577, 579, 580, 592. 

habitual use, result of, in case of sick- 
ness, 593. 

local effects of, 570. 

moderate daily use of, 593. 

and physical labor, 573, 574. 



Alcohol, how produced, 569. 
taken on empty stomach, 574. 
triatomic, 93. 
use of, in disease, 593. 

in fevers and other wasting diseases, 
593. 
vascular paralysis due to prolonged over- 
indulgence in, 573. 
Alcoholic drinks, brandy, 585. 
constituents of, 569. 
gin, 587. 
liqueurs, 587. 
low, 567. 
rum, 586.» 

special characters of, 569. 
whiskey, 582. 
Aldehyds, 94. 
Algae, 450. 

Alimentary glycosuria, 86. 
Alimentary toxemia, 193. 
Alimentary tract, anatomy of, 108. 
bacteria of, 213, 214. 
definition qf, 108. 
esophagus, 110. 
large intestine, 113. 
mouth, 108. 
palate, 109. 
teeth, 110. 
pharynx, 110. 
small intestine. 111. 
stomach. 111. 
Allantiasis, 669. 
Alligator pear, 495. 
Allspice, 645. 
Almond oil, 469. 
Almonds, 506. 
bitter, 506. 
green, 507. 
Amblyrhynchus, as food, 764. 
American foods, chemical composition of 
(tables), 738-747; bread, crack- 
ers, cakes, pastry, puddings, 738- 
743; sugars, starches, 743-744; 
vegetables, 744-747. 
American Indians, early agriculture 

among, 34, 35. 
Amids, 83. 

Amino-acids, absorption of proteins in 
form of, 19^. 
chemical formulae of, 67-70. 
course of, in system, 199. 
deaminization of, 72. 
derivation of, from organic acid, 67. 
as final cleavage products of protein 

digestion, 199. 
free, present in muscles and other tis- 
sues, 200. 
not incorporated into body, breaking 

down of, 201. 
as means of carrying protein from ali- 
mentary canal, 202. 
methods of separating, 70. 
protein, 67. 
table of, 67, 



INDKX 



783 



Amino-acldg, relation of, to protein ab 
Horption, 11)5. 106. 
resulting from hydrolysU of oonplcx 

protrins, ll»r). 
ultiinati' fato of. after entering bliKnl 
stream, 200. 
Amino-aoitiM and peptide, vs. blood pro- 

tciiiH. I»«. 
AminolvHiiiH. 101. 
Aminopropionic acid, 67, 68. 
Aminovalerianic acid, formula of, 71. 
Ammonia, fre<\ 241. 
ill water, 241. 

characteristic of sewace pollution, 
241. 
Arayloao, 157. 
Amylic alcohol, 93. 
Amylolytic action, 120. 
Anchylostomiaais, source of infection, 667. 
Angostura bitters, .589. 
Animal fats, bone marrow, 466. 
butter, 4()1. 
butterine, MiG. 
composition of, 98. 
lard, 46.5. 
oleoma rjjarin, 466. 
pemmican, 466. 
sources of, 461. 
suet, 466. 
tallow, 466. 
various. 466. 
Animal flesh. See Meats. 
Animal food, averajje chemical composi- 
tion of, 702-728. See also special 
subjects, 
eggs and egg products, 349. 
fish and shellfish, 300. 
fowls, domestic and wild, 296. 
gelatin, 293. 
meat extracts, 287. 
meats, 277. 

milk and milk products, 307. 
relative cost of vegatable and, 375. 
unusual, 763. 
agoutis, 763. 
albatross. 763. 
amblyrhynchus, 764. 
ants, 764. 
armadillo, 763. 
axolotl, 764. 
bandicoot, 764. 
bear, 764. 
beaver, 764. 
bees, 765. 
birds' nests, 765. 
bison, 764. 
blaps, 765. 
buffalo, 764. 
bustard, 764. 
camel, 765. 
carrion, 775, 
caterpillars, 767. 
cats, 765. 
cavia, 765. 



Animal fiMMj, unuaual, timU, 7e7. 
rfirkatiMMi mtu\ |NirroU, 77t. 
CfilUrd |>rrari. 7GA. 
eormorant. 704. 
oniM, 7(MI. 
croeodllr. 760. 
curk'Mi. 7fW. 
eiittlrflah. 707. 
drcomMMrU ffmli with wnfWH is H, 

drifpi, 707. 
dujronir. 707. 
wirth mtinir. 707. 
parih ho|;. 70H. 
riephant, 707. 
elk, 707. 
frofra. 708. 
in'aimhnpiwrs, 760. 
Ip-ubii. too. 

Cull. 700. 
ed|;rhog. 760. 
hipitophafQT. 760. 
hipJMijiotainiui, 770. 
holothuriae. 770. 
human flmh. liW. 
iguana, 770. 

t'erbna, 770. 
:along. 771. 
kangaroo*, 771. 
lion. 771. 
lizardn, 771. 
llama. 771. 
locusts. 771. 
IjTix, 771. 
manatee, 771. 
marmot, 771. 
mice and rata, 772. 
monkeya. 772. 
moths,* 772. 
musk ox, 772. 
opoHsum. 772. 
ostrich, 772. 

parrots and ooduitooa, 772. 
peafowl, 772. 
pelican, 773. 
penguins, 773. 
porcupine. 773. 
rati* and mice, 772. 
reindeer. 773. 
rhinocerotf. 773. 
seal, 773. 
sharka, 773. 
sloths. 774. 
anail. 774. 
snakes, 774. 
spiders. 774. 
spotted crake, 774. 
aquirrels. 774. 
swans. 774. 
swordfish. 774. 
Upir, 775. 
toad. 775. 
tortoise, 775. 
trionvx ferox, 775. 



784 



INDEX 



Animal too(i, anusiial, turtle, 775. 
walrus, 775. 
whale, 775. 
wolves, 775. 
of the Zulus, 775. 
viscera of animals, 294. 
Animal and vegetable foods, unclassified, 
average chemical composition of, 
758. 
relative values of, 49. 
Animal viscera, composition and descrip- 
tion of, 294. 
definition of, 294. 
as foo<l, blood, 295. 
brain, 296. 
heart, 295. 
kidneys, 294. 
liver,*295. 
lungs, 295. 

pancreas ("belly" sweetbread), 295. 
stomach, or tripe, 295. 
thymus gland ("neck" or "throat" 

sweetbread), 295. 
tongue, 295. 
Animals, domestication of, 32. 

unusual, sometimes used for food. See 
Animal Food, Unusual. 
Anise, 647. 

toxic substances contained in, 658. 
Ant. as food, 764. 
Anthrocyans, 102. 
Anthrozanthins, 101. 
Apigenin, 101. 

Apples, chemical composition of, 480. 
custard, 490. 
fermented liquor of, 481. 
geographical distribution of, 480. 
kinds of, 480. 
mammee, 496. 

May, violent catharsis due to, 661. 
red* litmus contained in, 659. 
rose, 491. 
sour, 489. 
star, 492. 
sugar, 490. 

wholesomeness of, 481. 
Apple brandy, 585. 
Apple cider, 481. 
Apple vinegar, 605. 
Apricot brandy, 596. 
Apricot, kernel oil, 471. 
Apricots, 483. 
Araben, 85. 
Arboreal ancestors, modifications due to 

evolution from, 42. 
Armadillo, as food, 763. 
Arrowhead tubers, 426. 
Arsenic, introduced into food, 686. 
Artichoke greens, 437. 
Aah of body, minerals composing, 261. 
Ash or mineral waters, use of term, 697. 
Asparagus, 4.36. 

toxic substances of, 668. 
Auto- intoxication, causation of, 193. 



Avitaminoses, cause and characteristic 

syndromes of, 680. 
Axolotl, as food, 764. 



Bacillus coli communis, in water, 243. 
Bacon, digestibility and use of, 285. 
Bacteria, of alimentary canal, 213, 214. 
in food. See Food Infection, 
in milk, 328. 
classes of, 328. 
sources of, 330. 
in water, 242 

bacillus coli communis, 243. 

cholera germs, 243. 

detection of, by chemical analysis, 

245. 
typhoid bacilli, 243. 
Bacterial activity, experiments to deter- 
mine nature of, 211. 
phases of, 214. 

relation of, to food metabolism, 212. 
underlying principles governing, 212. 
in water, 240. 

See also Bacterial Metabolism and Bac- 
teriology. 
Bacterial decomposition of food, in gas- 
tro-intestinal tract. See Bac- 
terial Activity. 
Bacterial metabolism, action of carbo- 
hydrates in media, 221. 
action of protein and protein deriva- 
tives, in media, 221, 222. 
formation and elimination of waste 

products arising from, 216. 
nature of, 214. 

necessity of nitrogenous diet in, 217. 
in normal digestive processes, 213. 
phases of energy or catabolic, 214. 

structural, 2i4. 
preparation and utilization of energy in, 

217. 
prominent features of, 214. 
reactions of bacteria in media contain- 
ing both utilizable nitrogenous 
substances (proteins and protein 
derivatives) and carbohydrates, 
221. 
relation of products of, to nutritive en- 
vironment, 223. 
specificity of microbe action, 216. 
syntheses of, 217. 
transformations of, final, 215. 

preliminary, 215. 
utilization of protein derivatives in, 
218. 
Bacteriology, of alimentary canal, normal 
and abnormal flora, 229. 
of cecum, 228. 
gastro-intestinal, 223. 

in adolescents and adults, 225. 
in infants, 224. 



INDEX 



786 



Bacteriology, of inte«tin«1 eont«nU. «.f- 
fwt8 of nhnornml conditiuna u|K>it. 

effoct of catharticH on, 220. 
of larj?(* inti'atiiic, 228. 
of inoiith. 220. 
rogional, 220. 
of small intcHtine, 227. 
of stomach, 227. 
Bananas, r)()2. 

toxic suhstancos in, 058. 
Bandicoot, as Uhh\, 704. 
Barbadocs clu'rry, 4Ul. 
Barberries. V.n).' 

toxic substance in, 058. 
Barley. 401. 

composition of, 401. 
pearl, 401. 
Barley shi'aths, actinomycoflis due to, 07!>. 
Baths, mud, 5:^7. 
"Bausteine," 11)9. 
Bay leaf, 040. 

Beans, analyses of, 744-746. 
bolicohs, 444. 

broad or Windsor, 440, 444. 
butter, 444. 

comparison of peas and, 440. 
green, 430. 

composition of, 440. 
kidney, 444. 
lima, 444. 
shelled, 439. 
soy, 444. 
Bear, as food, 764. 
Beaver, as food, 704. 
Beechnut, 507. 

Beef, average chemical composition of. 
canned beef, 707. 
cooked beef, 706, 707. 
corned and pickled beef, 708. 
dried beef, 709. 
fresh beef, 702-706. 
canned, average chemical composition 

of, 707. 
cooked, average chemical composition of. 

706. 
corned and pickled, average chemical 

composition of, 708. 
cuts of, 699. 
dried, average chemical composition of, 

709. 
factors influencing quality of, 283. 
fresh, average chemical composition of. 

702. 
tenderness and toughness of, 282, 283. 
Beef bouillon, 291. 
Beef extracts. 287. 
constituents of, 288. 
nutritive value of, 287. 
percentage composition of, 288. 
stimulating effect of, 287. 
Beef fat, or tallow, 406. 
Beef juice, 289. 
raw, 289. 



IWrf juiM, raw. eootpniltiMi of. 9fio 

urn of. tM. 
M mtal, m. 



BMf prodtteU, 



^ i'<l">r«tiaM 
w — pmU loa of. 



BmT Uprwortn. 6M. 
B««f tra. 2N0. 
•Ibumimiid malrrial In, 291. 
prf|Mir«tion of. 2M|i. 
pmrnraiiaM of, 291. 
BMMMk« dMBloil eomposlUaii of. m 
aonparvd witli i«n. »llk. tfwmm 
ebtcM and wUtTErwd. U4, 
Beer, aeiioB of, on dkMiiioa. AM. 
herb, 668. 
Ringer, 5M. 
Rprtior, 568. 
invention of, Jl. 
"umall." 567. 
Bees, as food. 765. 

Beet root atigar. fir^ f^nnr, beet. 
Beets, 421. 
composition of, 424. 
litmuH contaimtl in. ir.O. 
Ben«Mlictinp. 580. 
B<>ngal isinRlaiui. 451. 
B««n7.oic acid, 06. 
Berlierin, 658. 

Beriberi, due to "poI^^lM^ rke." Mt, 
679. 
etiology of, 670. 
occurrence of, 670. 
Berries, average chimiieal ***» |>irfttliBi oC. 
fresh. 762. 
barberry, 400. 
blacklMTry, 409. 
blue, 498. 
cloudl)erry, .500. 
cranberry, 501. 
currants* 501. 
description of, 408. 
dewberry, 600. 
elderberry, 409. 
gooseberry, 600. 
huckleberry, 499. 
loganberry, 600. 
rasplierry' 500. 
roebuck berry. 500, 
ser\'ice berrj'*, 499. 
strawberry, 501. 
whortleberry. 408. 
Betaimidazoleethylamin, formntloci ol, 

from hist id in, 220. 
Betala, 8S. 
Bererairea, 699. 
adulteration of. 6H3. 
alcoholic. Srr .\lc«>holie Driaka. 
artificial, of precibieulttiriatji of prearat 

time. 31. 
chocolate. 655. 
dder, 602. 



786 



INDEX 



Beverages, cocoa, 551, 558. 
coffee, 545. 

deleterious effects in use of, 559. 
effect of caffein in, 558. 
guarana or Brazilian cocoa, 656. 
kola, 556. 
low alcoholic, 667. 
malt liquors, 559. 
nutritive value of, 568. 
perry, 602. 

of precibiculturists, 29, 
tea, 540. 
vinegars, 602. 
wine, 594. 
Bile, color of, 119. 
composition of. 119. 
part played by, in fat absorption, 180. 
physiology of, 1 19. 
uses of, in intestines, 119, 
Bile-pigments, 119. 
Bilirubin, 119. 
Biliverdin, 119. 
Birds' nests, 765. 
Biscuits, 385. 
Bison, as food, 764. 
Bitter almond, hydrocyanic acid yielded 

from, 658*. 
Blackberry, 499. 
Blackberrv wine, 499. 
Black jack', 622. 
Blaps, as food, 765. 
Blood, animal, as food, 295. 

mineral content of, 257, 261. 
Blood corpuscles, white, role of, in absorp- 
tion of food, 203. 
Blood protein, amino-acids and peptids 

vs., 196. 
Blood vessels, capillary, absorption bv, 

172. 
Blueberry, 498. 

Bodily structure and function, changes in, 
due to evolution from an arboreal 
ancestor, 42. 
due to evolution of diet, 40. 
Body, ash of, 261. 

chemical constituents of, 52. 

proximate principles, 54. 
constituents of vegetable foods vs. those 

of, 366. 
elementary composition of, 53. 
function of salts in, 262. 
importance of mineral salts to, 255, 

260. 
mineral content of, 255. 
bromin, 274. 
calcium, 265. 
chlorin, 273. 
fluorin, 274. 
iodin, 273. 
iron, 266. 
magnesium, 265. 
roanganefte, 276. 
oxalic acid, 274. 
phonphonis, 271. 



Body, mineral content of, potassium, 269. 
silica, 274. 
sodium, 269. 
sulphur, 272. 

mineral salts in, form of, 259. 
Boiling, of milk, 313, 321. 

of water, application of, to cookery, 20. 
history of, 17. 
Boletus edulis, 450. 
Bone marrow, 466. 
Bones, mineral content of, 257, 261. 
Boneset, medicinal action of, 058. 
Bonnyclabber, 338. 

Boric acid, ill effects of, on human econ- 
omy, 685. 

as preservative, 685. 
Brain, animal as food, 296. 

mineral content of, 261. 
Brandy, apple, 585. 

apricot, 586. 

definition and process of making of, 
585. 

effect of age on, 586. 

fictitious, 586. 
Brazil nut, 507. 
Bread, absorbability of, 387. 

adulteration of, 683. 

analysis of, 738. 

aerated, 386. 

average chemical composition of, 734. 

blending of different wheats in, 384. 

digestibility and absorption of, 387. 

good, characteristics of, 387. 

historical tracings of making of, 384. 

hot, and biscuits, 385. 

leaveners of, 386. 

nutritive value of, 389. 

percentage composition of certain root 
vegetables and, 424, 

process of home baking, 385. 

sawdust and woody filaer, 389. 

sour, 385. 

stale and slightly dried, 386. 

white, chemical composition of, as com- 
pared with egg, milk, beeksteak, 
cream cheese, 354. 
Bread fruit, 489. 
Bread nuts, 508. 

Brewing, discovery of art of, 559. 
Broccoli sprouts, 434. 
Bromin, presence of, in body and in foods, 

274. 
Bromin and iodin, waters containing, 528. 
Brussels sprouts, 434. 
Buckwheat, active principle of, 661. 

cultivation and description of, 404. 
Buckwheat flour, composition of, 404. 

use of, 404. 
Buffalo, as food, 764. 
Bustard, as food, 764. 
Butter, adulteration of, 683. 

antiquity of, 461. 

average chemical composition of, 726. 

chemical characteristics of, 462. 



INDKX 



787 



Butter, composition of various gradeH of 
404. 

creamery, 4(J.'l. 

imitation. 4l\:\. 

dairy, 4<);{. 

dipcstihility iwul value ot. .Ml. 

dip'slioii of. 4(;r). 

estimated yearly output of. ifi Hum mun- 
try, 4(53. 

factory, 4(J:J. 

fatty acida in, 4(52. 

niakiujjf of, 4(i2. 

pereentajje of fat in, 405. 

production of, in I'nited States, 341. 

rancidity in, causes of, 402, 463. 

renovate<i. 463. 
Hutterine, 466. 
Buttermilk, 336. 

analysis of, 337. 

average chemical composition of, 726. 

use of, 337. 
Butter nuts, 508. 
Butyric acid, 95. 



Cabbage, composition of, 432, 434. 
cultivation of, 433. 
red, litmus contained in, 659. 
varieties of, broccoli sprouts, 434. 
brussels sprouts, 434. 
cauliflower, 434. 
kale or borecale, 434. 
seakale, 434. 
Cacao beans, treatment of, 662. 
Cacao fat, 470. 
Cacao nibs. 553. 
Cacao shells, 553. 
Cacao tree, fruit of, 552. 

geographical distribution of, 651. 
habits of, 552. 
Cadaverin, formation of, from lysin, 220. 
Caflfein, effect of, in beverages, 558. 
CafTeone or caffeol, in coffee, 548. 
Cake, analysis of, 740, 741. 
Calcium, importance of, to body, 264. 
Calcium balance, disturbance of, in dis- 
eased conditions, 259. 
Calcium-containing foods with content 

estimated, 265. 
Calories, per potmd. per gram, American 

foods, 738-747. 
Camel, as food, 765. 
Candle nuts, 508. 
Candv, hard, 628. 
soft, 628. 
white, 627. 
Cane sugar group, or disaccharids. 87. 
Canned food, tin and lead poisoning from, 
685. 
zinc found in, 685. 
Cannibalism, 24, 766. 

anthropophagy, in the New World, 7W. 



Cannlnjr of foocK silulUraikw U, fM. 

fruita, (SK<|. 
nirat. 6H4. 
Vlifi'Ulilm. »m4. 
C«nti>lou|H*, A 1 3. 
<'«JMT, »M2. 
(Mprnir iici«|. m». 
Caprvlir nnd mprir arKl*. 9§, 
CnpfiicMiMi. t\m. 
Carnniel, 622. 
Caraway mfsl, «47. 
CarlKtliydrNtm. alMfirption of. IM. 

behavior of inti^tinal wall to, !•§. 
couriM* of. in iiratrtn, iHd. 
diftnerharidii, lN4t. 
in Nt«miarh. 1H6. 

artioM •■' ■ ^ffiii. 221. 

<bi»«-it f. diMcrharida. HZ. 

moil U H4. 

polvHHr. Uoidal. W. 

tetrMMtir. -'♦. 

triKarcliaridM. HU. 
com|Nmition of, fM. 
course of. in nynttin. IH5. 

by fH>rtal nyntem. IK5. 
det(>rni)nation of, 6©7. 
disacrharidM. difTerpooe of, fitMB aoMO* 
Harcharida, 87. 
lactone, KH. 
maltoae, 88. 
saecharoiM*, 87. 
fermentation of, 187. 
in fruitH. 478. 
hydrolysis of, 185. 
inversion of, in amall iniratine, 186. 
monosaccharids, claaim of, 84. 
he.vose«. 85. 
pent<>Re«, 85. 
tetros*"!*. 84. 
trioses, 84. 
nature of, 84. 
percentage of, abaorlMti from dnr Mib- 

Htanc«>K in varioua forMln, 163. 
polysaccharids. colloidal, criluloae. 91. 
dextrin. 90. 
givcogen. 90. 
in'ulin. 92. 
lichenin, 91. 
maltodextrins. 91. 
pectone bodies. 92. 
starch. 89. 
triHaccharids. meIito«e, 89. 

meli/.itoi*^, 89. 
in vegt'table foods, pectin or pcctoM 
bodies. 369. 
sUrch. 367. 
sugar, 367. 
Carbon dioxid. presence of, la water. HO, 
Cardaroon. 647. 
Carmotes. 305. 
Carob beans. 493. 
Carotin. 101. 

Carrion, as food of Zulus. 775. 
CarroU, eompositioD of, 422, 424. 



788 



INDEX 



Carrots, cultivation of, 421. 

nutriment of, cooked and raw, 422. 
toxic substances contained in, 658. 
Casein, as ejrg substitute, 358. 

in milk, 308. 
Caseinogen, 192. 
Cashew nuts, 508. 
Cassia, 643. 

Catt^rpi liars, as food, 767. 
Cathartic action, of May apple, 661. 

of persimmons, 661. 
Cathartics, effect of, on bacterial popula- 
tion of intestines, 229. 
Catnip, medicinal action of, 658. 

medicinal nature of oil of, 661. 
Cats, as food, 765. 
Cauliflower. 434. 
Cavia, as f(X)d, 765. 
Cayenne pepper, 646. 
Cecum, bacterial activity in, 228. 

digestion in, 167. 
Celeriac, 427. 
Celery, 435. 

toxic substances contained in, 658. 
Celery salt, 435. 
CelerV seed. 648. 
Cellulose, 91. 

as covering of starch granules, 369. 

as factor in digestion and absorption of 
vegetables, 372. 
Cereal breakfast foods, cost of, 406. 

differences in composition of, 408. 

importance of, 404. 

prepared, 409. 

ready to eat, cost of, 406. 
manufacture of, 406. 

sold in bulk and in packages, 408. 

total nutrients and fuel value of, 407, 
408. 

uncooked and partially cooked, 405. 
Cereal coffee infusion, average chemical 

composition of, 757. 
Cereals, average chemical composition of, 
729-734. 

barley, 401. 

bread, 384. 

buckwheat, 404. 

comparative cost of nutrients and energy 
in flours and, 394. 

composition of flour and of, 376. 

corn, .392. 

flour, 380. 

(grass) and other, most important of, 
376. 

kaoling, 403. 

millet. 401. 

oats, 398. 

origin of, 375. 

proso millet, 402. 

quinoa, 403. 

rice, 389. 

rve, 400. 

wheat. 376. 
Chamomile, medicinal action of, 658. 



Champagne, 597. 
Chartreuse, 589. 
Cheese, 341. 

average chemical composition of, 726. 
comparative food value of different va- 
rieties of, 344, 345. 
cooked, 344. 

Emmenthal or Gruyere (Swiss 

cheese), 345. 
Parmesan, 345. 
cottage (pot or green cheese), 343. 
cream, chemical composition of, as com- 
pared with eggs, milk, beefsteak, 
and white bread, 354. 
digestive qualities and nutritive value 

of, 347. 
flavor of different varieties of, 346. 
fresh, 344. 

fuel or caloric value of, 348. 
general chemistry" of, 346. 
hard, 344. 
Cheddar, 344. 
Gorgonzola, 344. 
Roquefort, 344. 
Stilton, 344. 
making of, 342. 

manufacture of, in America, 349. 
nutritive value and digestive qualities 

of, 347. 
origin and mode of manufacture of, 241. 
percentage composition of different va- 
rieties of, 346. 
skim milk, 344. 
Cheshire, 345. 
Edam, 345. 
Gloucester, 345. 
soft. Brie, 344. 
Camembert, 343. 
English cream, 343. 
Limburger, 344. 
Neufchatel, 343. 
subjection of, to moulds and resulting 

flavor, 349. 
use of, 347. 

of, in invalid diet, 348. 
varieties of, cooked, 345. 
hard, 344. 
skim-milk, 345. 
soft, 343. 
Cheese poisoning, 671. 
Chemical composition of American foods 

(tables), 738-747. 
Chemical constituents of body and of food, 
52. 
proximate principles, 54. 
Chemical test of food value, 57. 
Chemistry and physiology, of digestion, 
52. 
of proximate principles of food, 63. 
Cherry, 484. 

composition of, 484. 
maraschino, 484. 
Surinam or Barbadoes, 491. 
Cherry bounce, 484. 



INDEX 



789 



Cherry brandy, 484. 

Cherry laurel leaves, 642. 

Cherry pitH, hydrocyanic acid yiehhui 

from, 058. 
Chestnuts, 508. 

Chick-pea vetch, poisoning due to, 075. 
Chicken, digestibility of, 290. 
llesh of, 2W7. 
varieties of, 297. 
Chickory, 438. 
Chinquapin nuts, 508. 
Chlorids, in water, 242. 
Chlorin, presence of, in foods, 273. 
Chlorin-containing foods, with content 

estimated, 273. 
Chlorins, in water, 242. 
Chlorophyll, 101. 

Chocolate, source and preparation of, 55.1. 
Cholera germs, in wat«'r, 243. 
Chop, chemical composition of, in com- 
parison with poultry, 298. 
Chromoproteins, 80. 
Cica of maize, 31. 
Cicada, as food, 767. 

Cider, American varieties of, analyses of, 
604. 
composition of, 603. 
definition and manufacture of, 002. 
Cider or apple vinegar, 605. 
Cinnamon, 643. 

oil of, 644. 
Citral, 94. 
Citric acid, 96. 
Citron, 485, 512. 
Citrus fruits. See Fruits, Citrus. 
Clams, 307. 
Climate, fruits in relation to, 475. 

relation of, to diet, 37. 
Cloudberry, 500. 
Cloves, 643. 

oil of, 643. 
Coca, physiological action of, 558. 

use of, 558. 
Coca erythroxylum, alkaloid cocain de- 
rived from, 658. 
Cocain, alkaloid, plant derived from, 658. 
Cockatoos, as food, 772. 
Cocoa, 551. 

adulteration of, 683. 

Brazilian, or guarana, 556. 

"Caracas," 553. 

chocolate, 555. 

composition of, 554. 

composition of commercial varieties of, 

554. 
"flake," 553. 
prepared, nutritive and sustaining qual- 

itv of, 555. 
"rock," 553. 

toxic substances contained in, 659. 
See also Cacao Beans. Cacao Niba, Cacao 
Shells and Cacao Tree. 
Cocoanuts, 494, 509. 
parts of, 470. 



CocoanuU. aa aoure* of Ut, 470. 

<'(M'OHnut oil, 47o 
C«mI liviT oil. 4«7 
Coffti'. ndiiltrration c.f, i:,|. cjhj. 
annual rrop ..f, 55 j. 
Braxilinn, 5-17. 
Ceylon, 547. 
componition of, 54«. 

raw and roaaUd, ft40. 
extractii and cmmmw oI. SSI. 
Jamaica, 447, 
Java, 546. 
AfiK^ha, Bit, 
Mv«ore. 546, 
oil of. 5A9. 

origin niid cultiratioti pf, §41. 
prepMration of. for tlrinkinir. S4t. 
di'OK'tion, S.*!!, 

in Knffland and TniUd SUU«, UO. 
French m«*thod, 560. 
infuHJon. TkiO. 
percolation, 550. 
Turkinh method, 551. 
Vienna method, 550. 
roaflting of. 547. 
subHtitutiii for. 551. 
toxic NubHiiinre4 contained la, 68t. 
treatment of lM>an«, 545. 
varietiea of. 540. 
Coffee tree, 545. 
Cold slaw, 652. 
Cold storage, preaenration of fniiU W, 

515. 
Collagen. 278. 

Col lard pecari, as food, 765. 
Colon, ascending. 115. 
descending, 115. 
sigmoid. 115. 
transverse, 115. 
Condiments, 603. 
action of 639. 
on food, 27. 
average chemical eompoaitioo of, 751. 
from barks, caaaia, 643. 

cinnamon, 643. 
from buds and flowera, caper. 642. 
cloves, 643. 
saffron. 643. 
for children and young people, 630. 
classes of. 640. 
contra- indications to. 639. 
as food of precibiculturiAts, 27. 
history of. 27. 

from immature and ripe fruit*. alUpice, 
645. 
capsicum, cayenne pepper. 646. 
juniper berries, 646. 
pepp«*r, 646. 
vanilla bean. 647. 
from roots or rootatalks. garlic. 644. 
ginger. 644. 
horseradish. 645. 
aaasafraa, 645. 
turmeric, 644. 



790 



INDEX 



Condiments, from seeds, anise, 647. 

caraway seed, 047 

cardamon, 647. 

celery seed, 648. 

coriander seeds, 648. 

cumin seed, 648. 

dill seed, 648. 

fennel seed, 648. 

grains of paradise, 648. 

mustard, 648. 

nutmeg, 640. 

tonka bean, 648. 
sources of, 640. 
from stems and leaves, bay leaf, 640. 

cherrv laurel leaves, 642, 

fennel, 642. 

mace, 640. 

mint. 641. 

parsley, 642. 

peppermint, 641. 

sage, 640. 

spearmint, 641. 

summer savory, 641. 

sweet basil, 641. 

sweet marjoram, 641. 

tarragon, 642. 

thyme, 642. 

wintergreen, 642. 

use of term, 638. 

value of, 639. 
Confectionery, adulteration of, 628. 
hard candy, 628. 
making of* 627. 
materials used in, 627. 
products included under, 627. 
soft candy, 628. 
sugar drops, 627. 
white candy, 627. 
Cookery, development of, 14. 

among American Indians, 20. 

boiling of water, application of, to 
cookery, 20. 
history of, 17. 

by other primitive peoples, 21. 

underground oven, 16. 

utilization of discovery of pottery, 19. 
discovery of, 14. 
evolution of, 14. 
fire applied to meat, 15. 
systematic use of fire, 14. 
Cooking among American Indians, 20. 
of eggs, 35.5. 
of green vegetables, 431. 
of meat, advantages of, 15. 

evidences of, among primitive men, 
15. 
method of, used by other primitive peo- 
ples, 21. 
of potato, white, 412. 
of vegetables, 16. 
Copper, in preserved food. 685. 
Coriander, toxic substances contained in, 

6.58. 
Coriander seeds. 648. 



Cormorant, as food, 766. 
Corn, analyses of, 394. 

average composition of corn products 
and, 395. 

as cause of pellagra, 396, 659. 

composition of, average, 395. 

composition of cooked preparations of, 
and wheat bread, 398. 

fuel value of, 395. 

green, 398. 

history of, 392. 

milling of, 394. 

normal crop of, 396. 

parts of grain of, 392. 

rank of, as food grain, 392. 

subject to smut before ripening, 661. 

varieties of, 393. 
Corn breads and puddings, 397. 
Corn meal, 396. 

action of cooking on, 397. 

white and yellow, 397. 
Corn meal mush, 397. 
Corn oil, 471. 

Corn products, average composition of 
corn and, 395. 

spoiling of, 396. 
Cottonseed oil, 470. 
Cow's milk, chief protein of, or casseino- 

gen, 192. 
Crabs, 304. 
Crackers, analysis of, 738, 739. 

average chemical composition of, 734. 
Cranberry, 502. 
Crane, as food, 766. 
Crataegus, medicinal action of, 658. 
Cream, Devonshire, 336. 

formation of, 335. 
Creme de menthe, 590. 
Crocodile, as food, 766. 
Crystalloids, osmotic pressure exerted by, 

206. 
Cuckoo, as food, 766. 
Cucumbers, 512. 

toxic substances contained in, 659. 
Cumin seed, 648. 
Curacoa, 590. 
Currants, 498, 501. 
Custard apple, 490. 
Cuttlefish, as food, 767. 
Cyclic alcohols, 93. 



Dahlias, 426. 
Dandelions, 438. 
Dasheen, 428. 

composition of, 415. 
Date palm wine, 494. 
Dates, 493. 
Deaminization, 72. 
Decomposed flesh, as food, of Zulus, 775. 



INDKX 



791 



Deficiency diseases. nvit«iiiinom*«. HMO. 
berilxri, «4, 079. 
due to lack of vitaiiiin«i in milk, 310. 

317. 
pellagra, 64, 676. 
scurvy, 64. 
Deglutition, act of, 126. 
inhibitory intlumcc of, 128. 
muscular nature of act of, 127. 
sUigos of, 126. 

variation in act of. in diffi-rrnt animnlii 

and with ditftTfut cunHiHt(>nci«*ii 

of fo.><i. 127. 

Desiccated cg^'s. .'{56. 

Dt»8iccated Milk, ;i24. 

eonipoaition of, ,'125. 

composition of casein and dried milk, 
preparations, nutrients, per cent, 
325. 
methods of making, 324. 
use of, 325. 
Desiccated potato, 412. 
Dewberry, 500. 
Dextrin, 90. 
Dextrose, 85. 
Diabetic sugar, 85. 
Dialysis, and absorption, 204. 

definition of, 204. 
Diarrhea worm, 667. 
Diarrheal diseases, in bottle-fed babies, 

688. 

Diet, classes of mammalia in r^ard to, 1. 

carnivora, 2. 

frugivora, 2. 

herbivora, 2. 

evolution of, See Evolution of Man's 

Diet, 
imperfectly balanced, diseases due to, 

664. 
infant's, relation of proteins to, 190. 
modifications due to, 40. 
of North American Indians, 22. 
of precibiculturists, 21. 
of primates below man, 5. 
of primitive man. 2. 
supposed and actual, 4. 
See also Food of Evolving Man. 
relation of climate to, 37. 
seasonal variation in 40. 
Diet epochs, cibicultural, .32. 

domestication of animals, 32. 
introduction of agriculture, 33. 
relation of climate to diet, 37. 
seasonal variation in, 40. 
precibicultural cookery period, 13. 
development of cookery, 14. 
early preparation of food, 13, 
preservative methods, 13. 
precookery, 10. 

homosimian period, 10. 
diet of, 12. 

earliest weapons of man, 11. 
early hunting period, 10. 
later hunting period, 12. 



10. 
DirUry i>xrrllmc«. atUlnmrtil of armr o|. 

60. 
Dirtrtie •rrons MOalMr 4liMU», MS. 

ndultrriitrtl fiHids, Ml. 

f<MMU cfintaininff micmKirymalMM. MT. 

fooda oont •» - in%. 



i dirt, 



foodi f*»n« 



j.h.l J. 

DilfiiH.- jiiuiii % , . 
Diirimiiin niid iil> 
definition of. 2tj;. 
lawM of, 205. 

physiologiral importance of. 9ff!, tOft. 
Digestibility, of br^sd. 387. 

of food, phvNiologiral tent of. Iflt 

quantity 'and i|uaHty higwtMl, Kl. 
of green vegetables, 431. 

c<N)ked. 433. 

raw. 4.38. 
of meatH. 286. 
of sugar, 03 1, 034. 
of sweet pot«toe<%, 414. 
Digestion, abNorption of food. Am A^ 
sorption, 
action of malt liquors on, 666. 
action of water on. 620. 
actual courH<> of, in eeaam, 167. 

in duodenum. 166. 

actual courite of, experiniMiiA allow- 
ing, 164. 

in ileum. 167. 

lower intestinal, 166. 

in {>tomach, 164. 
agents of chemical chuifea in, t m i iuta , 
146. 

ferments, 145. 
a>;ents ctmdueive to, 121. 
aid of water in. 249. 250. 
aim of, 107. 
of butter, 465. 
in cecum, 167. 
changes of organs of, in erolotkm <^ 

man. 43. 
chemical clianges occurring in. 146. 
chemistry and physiology of, 62. 
disturbing effect of sugar on, 634. 
duodenal, 166. 
effect of alcohol upon. 674. 
effect of liqueurs on. 591. 
effect of wines on, 600. 
as essential factor in life, 107. 
of faU. 450. 
of fruit*. 479. 
of fungi. 451. 
gastric. 156. 

course of. 104. 

problem of^ 166. 156. 
in ileum. 167. 



792 



INDEX 



Digestion, limitation of powers of, 133. 
in lower intestines, ItJG. 
natural divisions of process of, 116. 
overtaxing of powers of, 133. 
processes of, absorption of food, 141. 
bacterial activity in, 213. 
bacterial decomposition of food in gas- 

tro-intestinal tract during, 211. 
deglutition, 126. 
enzymatic, 146. 
fermentation, 145. 
insalivation, 123. 

maceration of food in stomach, 134, 
mastication of food, 121. 
movements of stomach, 134. 
nerve action in, 128, 
physiology of enzymes and hormones 

as applied in, 145, 
protective system in, 132. 
regulation of temperature, in stom- 
ach, 140, 
secretion and action of digestive 

juices, 129. 
sterilization of food in stomach, 140. 
stomach as a reservoir for chymifica- 
tion of food, 133. 
of rice, 390. 
varying faculty of, in man's evolution, 

40. 
of vegetable foods, ?71. 
Digestive apparatus, 108, 
glands of, 115, 

glandular organs of, gall-bladder, 119. 
liver, 118. 

pancreatic gland, 117. 
salivary glands, 116. 
spleen,' 118. 
See also Alimentary Tract. 
Digestive glands, 115. 
Digestive juices, correlation of functions 
of body by chemical action of, 
132. 
saliva, 129. 

secretion and action of, 129. 
of stomach and intestine, secretion, 130. 
Digestive organs, absorptive power of, in 
large intestine, 174. 
in small intestine, 169. 
in stomach, 163. 
evolution of, summary of, in connection 

with evolution of teeth, 47. 
number of, in higher grades of animal 
life, 107. 
Digestive processes, functions of stomach, 

133. 
Dill, toxic substances contained in, 668. 
Dill 8ee<l, 648. 

Diphtheria bacilli, in milk, 688. 
Disaecharids, 610, 
classes of, lactose, 88. 
maltose, 88. 
saccharose, 87. 
difference of, from monosaccharids, 87. 
Distillation of water, 245. 



Dogs, as food, 767. 
Domestication of animals, 32. 
Drinking water. See Water, Drinking of. 
Ducks, flesh of, 299. 

varieties of, 298. 

wild, 299. 
Dugong, as food, 767. 
Duodenal digestion, 166. 
Duodenum, anatomy of, 113. 
Dysentery, chronic, due to ameba coli, 665. 



E 



Earth eating, 767. 

Earth hog, as food, 768. 

Eating, purpose of, 232. 

Economic test of food value, 60. 

Eczema, due to sugar, 632. 

Edible portion of food, definition of, 695. 

Egg candling chart, 352. 

Eggplant, 513. 

toxic substances contained in, 661. 
Egg products, 356, 
desiccated eggs, 356, 
ova, 356. 

pidan — Chinese preserved eggs, 358. 
Eggs, appearance of different grades of 
before the candle, 350, 
average chemical composition of, 725, 
chemical composition of, as compared 
with milk, beeksteak, cream 
cheese, and white bread, 354, 
chemical composition of whole egg, egg 
white, egg yolk, desiccated egg, 
and egg substitute, 357. 
comparative nutritive value of meat 

and, 355. 
as complete food, 351. 
composition of, 351. 

general percentage, of white and yolk 

of, 353, 
of white, 353, 
of yolk, 353, 
cooking of, 355. 
desiccated, 356. 
digestibility of, 355. 
edible, varieties of, 349. 
energy properties of, 356. 
preservation of, 356. 
preserved, Chinese, 358. 
varieties of, 349. 
white of, 352. 
yolk of, 353. 
Egg substitutes, 356. 

casein, 358. 
Elastin, 278, 
Elderberry, 499, 

active principle of, 659, 
Elementary composition, of human body, 

53. 
Elements, and their compounds, 53. 
found in human body, 52. 
necessary to value of foodstuffs, 53. 



INDEX 



703 



Klpphant. HH fiKxl, 767. 
KIk. as f(MMl. 767. 
Kndive, r.il. 
KntorokiiuiHr, 158. 

aotivatinj? functioni* of. IftH. 
Enzymatic pnuM'SMOH, rHurntial fartu, rr 
gartlin^r, talMilation of, 147. 
nature of. Mil. 
reverHibility, IfiO. 
apecilic action, 15(1. 
temperature control, 160. 
Enzymes, 65. 
action of, 147. 
specific, 160. 
of hormonen: secretin hm<I iraHtrin. 

15.1. 
of pepsin, 15.3. 
of trypsin. 1,V2. 
active and inactive, 147. 
amylolytic, 148. 
amylase, 157. 
classification of, according to activitv, 

148. 
coagulating, 148. 
fat-splitting, 148. 

lipase, 157. 
hormones, secretin and gastrin. 15.3. 
interaction of, in succus entericus. 158. 
lipolytic, 148. 

list of, concerned in processes of diges- 
tion and nutrition, 149. 
oxidizing, 148. 
peptolytic, 148. 
proteolytic, 148. 
enterokinase, 158. 
pepsin, 153. 
trypsin, 152. 
stimulation and action of, during in- 

salivation, 124. 
sugar-splitting or inverting, 148. 

invertase, 157. 
temperature of action of, 150. 
transformation by, of purin bodies, 82. 
Erepsin, 158. 

Ergot, source of fluid extract of, 661. 
Ergotism, 674. 

convulsive and gangrenous, 674. 
differentiated from erythromelalgia, 
Ravnaud's disease or acrod^'nia, 
675. 
epidemics of, 674. 
symptoms of. 674. 

test for detecting presence of, in flour, 
675. 
Erucic acid, 99. 
Ervthromelalgia, simulated by ergotism, 

675. 
Esophagus, anatomy of. 110. 
Esters, definition of. 96. 

glycerin, of oils and fats, acids enter- 
ing into formation of, 98, 99. 
natural and artificial, 97. 
phospho. See Phospho Esters, 
of sterols and fatty acids, of waxes, 99. 



w^ fIrUI nmton, »7. 

Kihvl ill 

Kvolutioti ..( ttiMn, in bfjdlljr ilniatora mmd 
tuiwiUm, Hi. 
trtm an jrlmrml mnermUtr, it, 
of diict^tivr uru»nm, 4J. 
due to variation* in iJI«4, 40. 
mamnmrv. diir to artlMll 1m4im •! 
chililrrn. 4H. 
dklHIr ailvanrr in. 9. 
digCitlvr oritana in. 43. 
and rtdithii. H. 

Influence on. of dicUr> •vohKJoa, 40. 
from primatra. «. 

in nhnfH' and d in rt l o pwt of akian. 9. 
teeth in. 45. 
Evolution of man'* diet, with rkai^iM la 
b*»dily atructure and funrfki*, 40. 
diet eiKx»ha, 8. 

diet of prinuitea helnw *«•« i. 
evolution of digentive ornuM aiid, 43. 
evolution of teHh and, mT^ 
food of evolving man, 2. 
general advancea in. 0. 
influence of culti«'ation of BUtrit«v« 

properties of vegrtahlr*. ». 
influence of, on general evoliitifia. I. 
influencing factom in. 7. 
Evolution of teeth. 46. 
Excretions, mineral content of, 256. 
Excretory organs, effect of aleoliol o«. Ml. 
Extract, beef, 287. 

meat, 287. 
Extractives, of meat, 280. 



Fata, absorption of, 160. 

extent of, 182. 

function of leukoc^ies in, 181. 

in large intestine,' 176. 

lost fraction in, 181. 

manner of, 178. 

mechanism of, 178. 

part played by bile and paoervatie 
juice in pr*»ceae of, 180. 

processes involved in. 183. 

in rectal feeding. 176. 

theories of, 178. 
animal. See Animal Pats. 
assimilation of, 469. 
characteristics of. 97. 

chemical. 468. 
common forms of. 469. 
dependence of musetilar action on, 400. 
desaturation of, 179. 
eaten in excess of daily rM|airemeala, 

179. 
as esters of triatomie alcolwl gljreeria. 

97. 
-fatty** or -i»d ollT or "olla,- 97. 
fish. 467. 



794 



INDEX 



FatB, importance of, 459. 
to health, 460. 

of meat, 278. 

in milk, 308. 

natural glycerids contained in, 98. 

neutral, 170. 

V8. oils, 460. 

occurrence of, 97. 

solubility of, 97. 

sources of, 457. 

storage, 179. 

use of term, and examples of, 697. 

in vegetable f(X)d8, 370. 

volatile or essential oils, 97. 
Fats and oils, animal. See Animal Fats. 

classes of, 457. 

economv of, 461. 

fixed, 457. 

substancts of. 457. 

uses of, summarized, 472. 

vegetable. See Vegetable Fats and Oils. 
Fatty bodies, 458. 

fluid and solid, 458. 
Feces, mineral content of, 257. 
Fennel, 642. 
Fennel seed, 648. 

Fermentation, application of, to the "germ 
theory," 146. 

of carbohydrates, 187. 

of malt, 561. 

in process of digestion, 145. 

of wines, 595. 
Fermented liquors, as beverages of preci- 

biculturists, 31. 
Ferments, characteristics of, 146. 

definition of, 145. 
Ferruginous salts, importance of, to body, 

264. 
Fertilizers, use of, among early Indians, 

36. 
Fig, cultivation of, 488. 

description of, 487. 

fertilization of, 488. 

nutriment of, dried and fresh, 489. 
Filberts, 509. 
Filtration, and absorption, 207. 

definition of, 207. 
Fire, applied to meat, 15. 

systematic use of, 14. 
Fish, average chemical composition of, 
cooked, 723. 
fresh fish, 720-723. 
preserved and canned, 723. 

comparative cost of nutrients and en- 
ergy in, 282. 

comparative value of meat and, 304. 

cookM, analysis of, 302. 

cooked (boiied), analysis of, as served 
at table 301. 

and disease, 302. 
. ile«h of, 300. 

as food of precibiculturists, 26. 

mort digestible of, 301. 

preservation of, 300, 303. 



Fish, produced in America, 303. 
shell. See Shellfish, 
use of, 300. 

as food in coast countries, 302. 
as invalid food, 301. 
as seasonable food, 300. 
Fish fats, 467. 

codliver oil, 467. 
Fish poisoning, 670. 
Fish roe, value of, 303. 
Fish tapeworm, 666. 
Flavors, fruit, 97. 
imitation, 97. 
Flesh, decomposed, as food of Zulus, 775. 
Flies, infection of food by, 689. 
Flour, best for food, 381. 

comparative cost of nutrients and en- 
ergy in cereals and, 394. 
composition of cereals and, 376. 
methods of making, modern process of 
milling wheat, or patent roller 
process, 380. 
primitive, 380. 
probable origin of, 380. 
relative composition of various grades 

of, 381. 
relative food values of various grades 

of, 381, 382. 
straight run, 381. 
whole wheat, 383. 
Flours, meals, etc., average chemical com- 
position of, 729-734. 
Fluorin, presence of, in body and in foods, 

274. 
Food, absorption of, 141. 

role of white blood corpuscles in, 293. 
adulterants of, 682. 
adulterated, and adulterants, table of, 

686, 687. 
adulteration of, 681, 683. 
amount of actual nutrients obtained in, 

chart of, 59. 
animal. See Animal Food, 
appetizing of, by condiments, 27. 
arsenic introduced into, 686. 
azotized, 55. 
canning of, 684. 
chemical constituents of body and, 52. 

classification of food, 55. 
chemistry and physiology of proximate 

principles of, 63. 
complete, eggs and milk, 351. 
definition of, 232, 638. 
digestibility of, physiological test of, 
162. 
quantity and quality ingested, 161. 
early preparation of, 13. 
elements of, 234. 
function of water as, 248. 
idiosyncrasies regarding, 690. 
imperfectly balanced, 664. 
infected, meat, 688. 
milk, 687. 
oysters, 689. 



INDKX 



TOfi 



Food, infection of, by flim, 6S0. 
by otluT p«iiw>nii, 073. 
by purjiHitt'H, ««5. 
by ptomaiiiH. lUW. 
insalivation (if, 123. 
iiLMilluMriit. (liM'HHOH cauMsi by, IMl.'l. 
niaciTution of. in stomach, 134. 
maHtioatiiin of, 121. 
niiniTal cont^'nt of, 208. 
broinin. 274. 
calcium, 2U5. 
cbloriii, 273. 
Huorin and silica, 274. 
i(Kiin, 273. 
iron. 2(H1. 
n)a^tu>Hiinn, 205. 
nianj;aiu'si», 275, 
oxalic acid. 274. 
pbospborus, 271. 
potasiuni, 20J). 
sodium, 20 J). 
Hulpbur, 272. 
misbranding; of, 081. 
of Nortir American Indians, 22. 
nutritive constituents of tissue formers, 

50. 
overburdening digestive powers of stom- 
ach with, 133. 
overeating, 003. 
parasites found in, 005. 
perfect, conditions to be fulfilled bv. 

313. 
of precibiculturists, 21. 
preservatives of. 084. 
preservative methods for, among In- 
dians, 13. 
proximate principles of, 54. 
carbohydrates, 84. 
chemistry and physiology of, 63. 
hydrocarbons. 92. 
inorganic salts, 102. 
proteins, 01. 
table of, 70, 77. 
water, 103. 
purpose of eating, 232. 
quantity and quality of, ingested, 101. 
raw, tapeworm due* to, 000. 
salt content of, 258. 
sterilization of, in stomach, 140. 
vitamines in, 04. 

waste of, by use of too much at one 
meal,* 133. 
chiefly aff"ecting proteins, 133. 
Food analysis, method of arriving at. 000. 
Food analysis tables, explanation of terms 
used in. 005. 
sources and methods of computing, 694. 

historical aspect of. 004. 
terms used in. dee F<K)d Materials. 
composition of. 
Food materials, average chemical com- 
position of. animal and vegetable 
foods, unclassified, 768. 
beef, canned, 707. 

52 



Food maUrUk air»ra«v oiMaical 
liMof. bwf7 " 



nil •oMjiQ^- 



brrni», 
brrad. • 
huf 
bill 

'*' .M.i*»o«, 7S7. 

734. 

i-^K-tm iin«i rbor«iUt#, 767. 
ciimlimrnti, 7.M. 



IS: 






fr -* 

I 

flt'Ul . 

frogs' I. 
fniitii. . 

driftl. 7...; 

fr*i»b. T.'iJ 
ganip, 7! ' 
nanh, 7 ' 

infantn' .itKi nMiUKi^ ^mmIb. 750. 
jellieM, 754. 
lamb, 711. 
m«*at prcMlucts. 728. 
milk und milk produeta. 72C. 
mincemeat, 759. 
mutton, canned, 713. 

fresh. 712. 
nuti*. 755. 
pickles, 751. 
pork, canned, 718, 

frenh. 713. 

organs of, 716. 

pickled, 8alt4>d and smoked. 717. 

sausage. 718. 
poultry, 719. 
preserves, 754. 
salad, 759. 
sandwich. 759. 
shellfish, canned. 725. 

fresh. 724. 
soups. 758. 
veal, fresh. 709. 
veal organs, 711. 
vegetable and animal, mrlaaaiied. 

758. 
yeast, eompreaaed. 757. 
composition of, ash or mineral valrra, 
697. 
carbohydrates, 697. 
edible portion. 695. 
faU. 697. 
fuel value, 607. 
protein, 696. 
refuiie. 695. 
Food metabolism, relation of bact«>rial ar- 

Uvity to. 212. 
Food of evolving man. animal. 2. 
factors determining choice of. 7. 



796 



INDEX 



Food of evolving man, vegetable, 2. 
fruits, 2. 
roots, 3. 

roots eaten by North American In- 
dians, 3. 
seeds, 2. 
Food poisons, 662. 
Food principles, 64. 
Foods, classification of, 232. 
nitrogenous, 55, 231. 
non-nitrogenous, 55. 
classification of nutritive constituents 

of, 56. 
comparison of fuel value and cost of, 

315. 
containing micro-organisms, 687. 
containing ptomains, 668. 
containing vitamines, 235. 
fats and oils, 457. 
as mixtures of foodstuffs, 234. 
percentage composition of milk, milk 

products and some other, 329. 
respiratory or calorifacient, 55. 
vegetable. See Vegetable Foods. 
Foodstuffs, 233. 

"accessorv substances" of, 234. 
adulterat^ion of, 681, 683. 
constructive, 233. 

containing toxic or medicinal substances, 
alphabetically arranged, 657-662. 
chamomile, 658. 
peppermint, 658. 
elements of, 234. 
necessary to value of, 53. 
and vitamines, 234. 
Food value, tests of, 57. 
chemical, 57. 
economic, 60. 
physical, 57. 
physiological, 60. 
Foot and mouth disease, infected milk 

from cattle with, 672. 
Formaldehyd, as food preservative, 685. 
Formic acid, 95. 

Fowls, average chemical composition of, 
719. 
chemical composition of, in comparison 

with steak and chops, 298. 
domestic, 296. 
chicken, 296. 
ducks, 298. 
geese, 298. 
guinea fowls, 299. 
peafowl, 297. 
pigeons, 299. 
turkey, 297. 
unusual, sometimes used for food. See 

Animal Food, Unusual, 
wild, 299. 

danger of "hanging," 299. 
meat of, 299. 
FrogR, as foo<l, 768. 
Fro|r»* legs, 305. 

Average chemical composition of, 724. 



Fructose, 86. 

Fruits, absorption of, 479. 

ampelidaceous or vine, currants, 498. 

grapes, 496. 
anacardiaceous, mango fruit, 492. 

mango chutney, 492. 
anonaceous, custard apple, 490. 

papaw, 490. 

pawpaw, 490. 

sour apple, 489. 

sugar apple, 490. 
average chemical composition of, canned, 
754. 

dried, 753. 

fresh, 752. 
berries, 498. 

barberry, 499* 

blackberry, 499. 

blue-berry, whortleberry, or bilberry, 
498. 

cloudberry, 500. 

cranberry, 502. 

currants, 501. 

dewberry, 500. 

elderberry, 499. 

gooseberry, 500. 

huckleberry, 499. 

loganberry, 500. 

raspberry, 500. 

roebuck berry, 500. 

service berry, 499. 

strawberry, 501 
canning of, 684. 
chemical composition of, 477. 

acid and carbohydrate content of, 478. 

acids, 477. 

carbohydrates, 478. 

varying composition, 478. 
citrus, citron, 485. 

description and varieties of, 484. 

grapefruit, 487. 

kumquat, 487. 

lemon, 485. 

limes, 485. 

orange, 486. 

shaddock, 487, 
classification of, 476. 
digestion of, 479. 

dried, proper method of cooking, 482. 
drupaceous, apricots, 483. 

cherry, 484. 

damsons, 482. 

peaches, 483. 

persimmon, 483. 

plums, 482. 

prunes, 482. 
ebenaceous, persimmon, 492. 
fermented liquors from, apple brandy, 
585. 

apple cider, 481. 

apricot brandy, 586. 

blackberry wine, 499. 

cherry bounce, 484. 

cherry brandy, 484. 



INDKX 



l<ruits, formpnttHl liquom from, iM^rh 
brnndy, 483. 
perry, 481. 
garden, r)12. 

eanteloiipo, 613. 
citron, Ctl'*. 
cucuinlK»r, 612. 
eppplHiit, 613. 
gherkin. 61. 'J. 
nielonH, 613. 
muskmelon, 613. 
pumpkin, 614. 
sqnnHh. 614. 
vegotahU' marrow, 614. 
watprnu'lon, 613. 
herb-like, bananas, 602. 
pineapple, .60.?. 
prickly pear, 604. 
immature or ripe, condimentu from, 645. 
importance of, 47» 
juices of, as beverage of precibicultur- 

iats, 31. 
leguminous, St. John's bread, 403. 

tamarind, 403. 
miscellaneous tree, alligator pear, 495. 
mammee apple, 490. 
olives, 404. 
pomegranate, 496. 
moraceous, bread fruit, 480. 
fig, 487. 
mulberry, 480. 
myrtaceous, guava, 401. 
rose apple. 401. 
Surinam cherry, 401. 
palmaceous, cocoanuts, 494. 

dates, 403. 
passifloreous, 498. 
pomaceous, apples, 480. 
pears, 481. 
quince, 482. 
preservation of. by cold storage, 615. 
in relation to climate, 476. 
sapotaceous, mammee sapota, 401. 
sapodilla, 401. 
star apple. 402. 
tree, anacardiaceous, 492. 
anonaceous, 489. 
citrus, 484. 
drupaceous, 482. 
ebenaceous, 492. 
leguminous, 493. 
miscellaneous, 494. 
myrtaceous, 491. 
palmaceous, 493. 
pomaceous, 480. 
.sapotaceous, 491. 
Fruits and berries, as food of precibicul- 

turists, 26. 
Fruit sugar, 80. 
Fruit transportation, recent progress in, 

476. 
Fuel value, definition and determination 

of, 697. 
Fungi, digestion of, 461. 



KiiMi, ediblr. 4411. 

bolftiui rtliilU. 4M. 

eon|MwitU»n of. 4411. 

|mieral r(in«iilrratl«i|i to 

Ilchmji, •Ik^*'. 447. 

morel, 460. 

miubroon. 449. 
mmdow. 44». 

Mniaol, 449. 

inifliM, 449. 
Fungi MMwerd. ajpir ajpir. 461. 



797 



obatTvv, 440. 



r2aliirto«4». R«. 
Cialnototoxi 



vtr 



nnllbladder. anatomy of, 119. 
Oallic acid. 06. 



06 

Game, average chemical conpoiiltkia of. 
710. '^ 

big. an fcKKl of predbicultiiriaU, U. 
danger of "hnnging,** 299. 
high. 200. 3m). 

infection from, due to food upon which 
animal has been feedliif. (S74. 
Game birds. See Fowla, wild. 
Garlic, 420, 644. 

active principles of, 660. 
Garden fruits. Hee Fruits, garden. 
Gases, in solution in water, 239. 
Gastric digestion, course of, 164. 

problem of, 156, 150. 
Gastric juice, analysis of oompoaition of, 
131. 
juice, excitation of aeeoodary seerrtioa 

of, 156. 
excitation of secretion of, facioTi ealer* 
ing into, 156. 
by hormones, 155. 
factors in secretion of, 190. 
first stimulus of, 1.30. 
production and excitation of, factors ro- 

tering into, 1.56. 
quality and quantity of a e cr e U oii of, 

131. 
steps in mechanism of seeretioM of, 190. 
fJastrin. 66. 1.55. 
(iastro-intestinal bacteriology. Krr Rac- 

teriology. gastro-intewtinal. 
Gastrointestinal tract, of newly horn in 
fant, bacteriological eonditioe of, 
2-25. 
Geese, flesh.of, 209. 
pflt^ de foie gras, 299. 
wild. 290. 
Gelatin, analysis and fuel value of, 29S. 
chief peculisrity of, 294. 
composition of. 203. 
percentage of. in fish. 301. 
preparation of. 203. 
purest form of, 294. 
"Germ theory"* of diaeaae, 146. 
Gherkin. 513. 



798 



INDEX 



Gin, definition of, 587. 

fictitious, 587. 

Holland, 587. 

Irish, 587. 

"Old Tom," 587. 
Ginger, preparation of, 644. 

properties of, 645. 
Ginger beer, 568. 
(Jlands, gall-bladder, 119. 

pancreatic, 117. 

salivary, 116. 

spleen, 118. 
Glandular organs of digestion, gall-blad- 
der, 119. 

liver, 118. 

pancreatic gland, 117. 

salivary glands, 166. 

spleen, 118. 
Gliadin, in wheat, 379. 
Globulins, 78. 
Glucoproteins, 80. 
Glueosaniin, 87. 
Glucose, 85. 

artificial, 627. 

definition and manufacture of, 626. 

use of, 626. 
Glucose vinegar, 605. 
(ilutelins, 78. 
Gluten, of wheat, 378. 
Glutenin, 379. 

Glycerids, unsaturated, process for satura- 
ting, 459. 
Glyceryl esters, 458. 

acids entering into formation of, 98, 
99. 
Glycin, 70. 

formula of, 68. 
Glycocoll, 70. 
Glycogen, 90. 
Glycolipins. 100. 
Glycol lie acid, 95. 
Glycoproteins, 80. 
Glycosuria, alimentary, 85. 
Goat meat, 284. 
Gooseberry, 500. 
Grain. See Cereals. 
Grain poisoning, 673. 

actinomycosis, 679. 

berilieri, 679. 
Grain poisoning, cause of, 674. 

luninnsis, or lathyrism, 675. 

pellagra, 675. 

sitotoxisms, or ergotism, 674. 
Grain whisky, 583. 
(drains of paVadisc, 648. 
(;ranadilla, 498. 
Grape cure, 496. 
Grapefruit, 487, 

active principles of, 660. 
Grape sugar, or dextrose, 85. 
Grape sugar group, or monosaccharids, 84. 
Grapes, composition of, 497. 

cultivation of. 496. 

dried, or raising, 497. 



Grapes, European, and attempts to grow 
in United States, 496. 

indigenous to America, 496. 

nourishing and therapeutic value of, 496. 

tannin and tartaric acid in, 659. 

utilization of, 497. 
Grasshoppers, as food, 769. 
Green vegetables, 430. 

artichoke greens, 437. 

asparagus, 436. 

beans and peas, 439. 

celery, 435. 

chicory, 438. 

composition of, 430, 431, 432. 

cooking of, 431. 

dandelions, 438. 

digestibility of, 431. 

cabbage, 433. 
cooked, 433. 
raw, 433. 

endive, 437. 

food value of, 430. 

greens, or "pot herbs," 439. 

lettuce, 435. 

okra, 438. 

peas and beans, 439. 

rhubarb. 435. 

shelled beans, 439. 

sorrel, 438. 

spinach, 434. 

tomatoes, 437. 

turnip tops, 439. 

water cress, 436. 
Greens, or "pot herbs,' 439. 
Ground nuts, 509. 
Grubs, as food, 769. 
Guanidin, 83. 
Guarana, composition of, 557. 

fruit of, 556. 

source of, 556, 

therapeutic use of, 557. 
Guava, 491. 
Guinea fowls, 299. 
Gull, as food, 769. 



Ham, curing of, 286. 

value of, 285. 
Hare, flesh of, 286. 
Hash, average chemical composition of, 

759. 
Hazel nuts, 509. 
Heart, animal, as food, 295. 

effects of alcohol upon, 570. 
Hedgehog, &» food, 769. 
Hekt, 31. 
Hexoses, 85. 
Hickory nuts, 509. 
Hippophagy, as food, 769. 
Hippopotamus, as food, 770. 
Histidin, formation of betaimidazoleethy- 
lamin from, 220. 



INDEX 



799 



Histonn, 7ft. 

Hourhouiul, iiiodicinal nature of oil or.lMll. 

Hoj,' fat, or lard, 405. 
Ho;;s, raiHinj? of. f«)r jHirk, 286. 
Httlothuriai', aM fooil, 770. 
lloiiry. adultorntion of, (M4. 
analysis of, (130. 
composition of. ($30. 
definition of, (J28. 
dt'soription of, (330. 
food and furl vnluo of, 029. 
as food of pri>cibiculturiMtH, 27. 
poisoning by, vTrtthcnHl from {)oiiionoufi 

flowfra, (J30. 
proiluction of. in Tnit***! iStatea, and 

States produein;;. (131. 
therapeutic value of, (J21». 
use of, in place of sugar, 029. 
varieties of, (J31. 
Honey bee, methods of aiding in producing 
greater amounts of honev, 031. 
value of. 030. 
Hops, as a hypnotic, sedative and ana- 

phrodisiac, 059. 
Hormones, 05. 

characteristics of, as chemical measen- 

gers, 154. 
chemical action of, 155. 
gastrin, 05. 153. 
secretion, 05, 153. 
Horsertesh, as food, 280. 
Horseradish, 425, 045. 

sulpliur compounds of, 059. 
Huckleberry, 4ft9. 
Human flesh, as food, 24. 
Hydrocarbons, classification of, 93. 
alcohols, 93. 
aldehyds, 94. 
benzoic acid, 90. 
butyric acid, 95. 
citric acid. 90. 
cyclic alcohols, 93. 
esters, 90. 
esters, volatile, 97. 
gallic acid, 90. 
glycoUic acid, 95. 
lactic acid, 95. 
malic acid, 90. 
oils and fats, 97. 
organic acids. 94. 
oxalic acid, 95. 
phospho esters, 100. 
salicylic acid, 90. 
succinic acid, 90. 
tannic acid, 90. 
tartaric acid, 90. 
terpcnes, 93. 
triatomic alcohols, 93. 
waxes, 99. 
composition of, 92. 
organic acids, acetic, 95. 

formic acid, 95. 
percentage of, absorbed from dry sub- 
stances in various foods, 103. 



TTvdroevasifl Mid. yhldtd from billrr ml 
moiicla, DfMli and thmrry |>4U. 
6611. ' "^ 

il^'driMm. dulphurrttrd. 103. 

•eida rMoNlaf fron, Itt. 
QjrpQfde add, 99. 



Iceland moM, ««dl«l«Al praMrtlw M, 999. 
IdioayncranlM. In rrffard to food, 990. 

Iguana, an food. 770. 
Ileum, digmtion in. 167. 
Indol. di-Hnition of. 21H. 

format ifin of, from tryptophaB. 21fl. 
Infanta, ffaatro-lntcatinal ImcUrlolmjr la. 

Infant's diet, relation of fortlgB pmtvlaa 

to, 190. 
Infants' and Invalids' fooda, awraft dwai* 

ical compoaiticm of, 769. 
Inorganic aalta, 102. 
Inorganic substances In vegetable foods, 

306. 
Inosit'*. 87. 
Inositol. 94. 
Insalivation. act of. 123. 

function of saliva in proc«i«« of <ligr«- 

tion. 124. 
influence of temperature on, 126. 
a reflex action, 126. 

stimulation and action of — ig r m ss dar- 
ing, 124. 
Intestinal digestion, 166. 
Intestine. large, absorbing power of, 179. 
absorption in, 174. 
absorption of fata in, 176. 
absorption of salt in. 176. 
anatomy of, 113. 
bacterial activity in, 229. 
coats of, 115. 
small, absorption in, 169, 174. 
anatomy of. 111. 
area of.' 109. 
bacteriologj- of, 227. 
duo<lenum. 113. 

inversi<m of carbohydrates in, 186. 
jejunum. 113. 
Intestines, digestive juices of, 130. 

uses of bile in, 119. 
Inulin, 92. 

Invalid diet, use of cheese ia, 948. 
Invertase. 157. 
Invert-sugar, 86. 
lodin, in foods, 273. 

percentage of. in animal foods, 273. 
in fre*h foods. 273. 
Iron, in animal foods. 267. 
effect of habitual consumption of foodt 

poor in, 267. 
form!* of, 266. 
importance of, to bodjf 999. 



800 



INDEX 



Iron, occurrence of, 266. 

percentage of, in dried substances, 269. 
in fresh substances, 267. 
in various foods, 268. 
in vegetable foods, 267. 
sources of, 266. 
Iron-containing foods with content esti- 
mated, 267, 268. 



Jejunum, anatomy of, 113. 
Jellies, average chemical composition of, 
754. 

meat, 293. 
Jerboa, as food, 770. 
Jerusalem artichoke, 416. 

composition of, 415. 
Juices of fruits, as beverage of precibicul- 

turists, 31. 
Juniper berries, 646. 
Junket> 338. 



Kale or borecale, 434. 
Kalong, as food. 771. 
Kangaroos, as food, 771. 
Kaoling, 403. 
Kephir, 338. 

double fermentation in, 339. 
Kidneys, animal, as food, 294. 
Kirschwasser, 590. 
Kohlrabi, 425. 
Kola, composition of, 556. 

increase of power of endurance for men- 
tal and physical strain by, 556. 

origin of, 556. 
Kreptoxismus, 669. 
Kumiss, 338. 

double fermentation in, 339. 

making of, 339, 340. 
Klimmel, 590. 
Kumquat, 487. 



Lactic acid, 95. 

production of, from milk, 331. 
Lactose, 88. 
Lamb, average chemical composition of, 

cut* of, 701. 
as food, 284. 
"spring," Canadian goat meat sold for. 

Lard, 285. 

adulteration of, 683. 

grades of, 466. 
I^thyrism. 675. 
Laurie acid, 99. 



Lavender, medicinal nature of oil of, 661. 
Lead poisoning, from preserved food, 685. 
Leben, 341. 
Lecithins, 100. 
Legumes, absorption of, 441. 
beans, bolicohs, 444. 
broad, 444. 
butter, 444. 
kidney, 444. 
lima, 444. 
soy, 444. 
chemical composition of, and resulting 

utilization of, 442. 
chief nutrient value of, 441. 
dried, 441. 

composition of, 443. 
flatulence attributed to, 443. 
lentils, 447. 
peas, canned, 447. 
chick, 446. 
cow, 446. 
field, 445. 
garden, 446. 
peculiar characteristics of, 441. 
utilization of, resulting from chemical 

composition, 442. 
varieties of, 443. 
Lemons, active principles of, 660. 
composition of, 485. 
uses of, 486. 
varieties of, 485. 
Lentils, 447. 
Lettuce, 435. 

active principles of, 660. 
Leucin, 71. 
Leucocytes, function of, in fat absorption, 

181. 
Leukomains, foods containing, 668. 
Levulose, 86. 
Lichenin, 91. 
Lichens, 447, 450. 
Licorice, active principles of, 660. 
Lily bulbs as food, 428. 
Limes, 485. 

active principles of, 660. 
Linseed oil, 471. 
Lion, as food, 771. 
Lipase, 157. 
Lipochromes, 102. 
Liqueurs, absinthe, 588. 
adulteration of, 683. 
alcohol content of, 589. 
Angostura bitters, 589, 
artificial essences in, 588. 
Benedictine, 589. 
Chartreuse, 589. 
composition of, 588. 
cr^me de menthe, 590. 
curacoa, 590. 
definition of, 587. 
effect of, on digestion, 591. 
harmful influences of, 588. 
Kirschwasser, 590. 
Ktimmel, 590. 



INDEX 



8U1 



Liquptirs, Marnnchino, 590. 

Mead. r>lM). 

Mt'sral. r>00. 

nietlie};lin. ftOl 

raUifla. M)\. 

verinmith. r»Ul. 
LiquoFH. f(>nn<>ntcd, at bercrage of pr»* 

cibicuIturisU, 31. 
Litchi nuU, ftOO. 
Lithium, watora contnlnlnjj, 828. 
Litiinis. in frnilH and vi>p>tabloM; 660. 
Liver, anatomy of. lis. 

animal, am food, 2)).'). 

as IxHlv^uard of MVMtein A^^ainHt poinonn. 
0«8. 

mineral content of, 267, 26 L 
Lizards, as food, -77 1. 
Llama, as food, 77 L 
Lobster. .304. 
Locusts, 49.3. 

as food, 77 L 
Loganberry, 500. 
Lotus. 428. 

Lungs, animal, as food, 295. 
Lupinosis, or latbyrism, 075. 
Lycopin, 101. 

Lymph, mineral content of, 257, 26L 
Lynx, as food, 771. 
Lysin, formation of cadaverin from, 220. 



M 

Mace, 640. 

Maceration of food in stomach, L34. 
Magnesium — containing fo<xl9 with con- 
tent estimated, 205. 
Maize, early cultivation of, among In- 
dians, 35. 
Malic acid, 96. 

Malt liquors, action of, on digestion, 666. 
adulteration of, 682. 
beers, American, composition of, table 

of, 563. 
boiling of the wort, 560. 
comparison of, 564. 
composition of, 561. 

tables of, 564, 565. 
consumption of, 567. 
contents of. 562. 
"findings" in, 562. 
low alcoholic, 567. 
nourishment in, 566. 
origin of, 559. 
Porter, 562. 
preparation of, 560. 

cooling of the wort, 661. 
fermentation, 561. 
germination of malt, 560. 
malt substitutes used in, 560. 
worting. 560. 
"priming" of, 562. 
stout, 562. 
Malt sugar, 88. 



M«dlH. I. 
•liM to ar 



.M. 

jlainB)H ' , m 

Mammary f< 

Uli< ir«m 411. 

MamiBM a|>|>I«<, 4U(i. 
ManuDM MpuU. 401. 
M«mt«, u food. 771. 
M^ ngO Mt , prMMKw of, !n body mmd im 

footb. t76. 
Mango chutiMry. i9t. 
Mango fruit, 402. 
.Manna, laxative and nutiitlvo qualltl#a 

of, 600. 
Maple nap. obUining and trt«lMMit of, 

617. 
Maple KUgar, 017. 
manufacture of, 618. 
adulteration of, 683. 
content of. 018. 
weight of, to gallon, 017. 
Maple tree, averagt yield of ragar per 

seanon from, 6IM. 
Maraschino, 690. 
.MarHHchino cherry. 484. 
Marmot, as food, 771. 
Mastication of food, act of, 121. 
in animals, 122. 

movements cr>ntrihuting to, 121. 
prime importance of, 122. 
promotion of iH>rrption of laliTa by, 122. 
results of. 122. 123. 
time consumed in, 122. 
Matzoon, 341. 

Mav apple, violent catharsU do* to, 601. 
Mead, 590. 
Meals, hours for, 134. 

length of intervals between. ISS. 
Meat, analysis of variety of, 282. 
Meat, average percentage of waste In, 280. 
canning of, 289. 684. 
comparative nutritive value of ejoT* 

and. .3.'>5. 
comparative value of fish and, 304. 
composition of, 277. 
acids. 278. 
chemical. 280. 
extractives, 280. 
fat. 278. 

mineral substano<«, 279, 
muscle juice, 270. 
muscle tissue, 278. 
vitamines. 270. 
water, 281. 
cooking of. advantages of, 15. 

evidences of, among primitive men. 
15. 
flOtt of, 008. 



Iamb, 701. 
mutton. 701. 
pork. 701. 



802 



INDEX 



Meat, cuts of, veal, 700. 

digestion of, cooked and raw, 15. 

in diet of North American Indians, 23. 

food value of vegetable foods vs., 367. 

of fowls. See Fowls. 

hare and rabbit, 286. 

horseflesh, 280. 

importance of, 277. 

process of barbecuing or roasting of, 

284. 
raw, 16. 

use of, 16. 
stale, 300. 

tough, action of papaw on, 490. 
tul)erculous. 088. 
varieties of, beef, 282. 
goat, 284. 
lamb, 284. 
mutton, 283. 
opossum, 286. 
pork, 285. 
raccoon, 286. 
venison, 284. 
Meat extracts, beef bouillon, 291. 
beef extract, 287. 
beef juice, 289. 
beef peptones, 292. 
beef tea, 289. 
constituents of, 288. 
meat powders, 292. 
nutritive value of, 287. 
stimulating effect of, 287. 
Meat jellies, digestibility of, 293. 

preparation of, 293. 
Meat poi.soning, 009. 

botulismus or allantiasis, 069. 
from unwholesome diet of animal be- 
fore killing, 073. 
kreotoxismus, 009. 
Meat powders, 292. 

Meat products, animal viscera as food, 
294. 
average chemical composition of, 728. 
extracts, 287. 
gelatin, 293. 
jellies, 292. 
Meats, comparative cost of nutrients and 
energy in, 282. 
comparative digestibility of, 280. 
Medicinal substances, foodstuffs contain- 
ing, 057-002. 
Melitose, 89. 
Melizitose, 89. 
Melon-s 513. 
canteloupe, 513. 
musk melon. 51.3. 
watermelon. 513. 
Mental processes, effect of alcohol on, 580. 
Me«cal, .590. 

Metabolism, bacterial. See Bacterial Met- 
abolism, 
effects of alcohol on, 580. 
influence of nature of diet on products 
of, 213. ' 



Metabolism, relation of bacterial activity 
to, 212. 
of salts of body, 256. 
Metaproteins, 83. 
Metheglin, 591. 
Mice and rats, 772. 
Microbe action, specificity of, 216. 
Microorganisms, food containing, 687. 
Milk, absorption of, 312. 
adulteration of, 334. 
advantages of, 315. 
in disease, 316. 
fluidity, 315. 
food value, 315. 
alkaline fermentation of, 332. 
average chemical composition of, 727. 
bacterial content of, •328. 
classes of bacteria, 328. 
in bitter milk, 331. 
in slimy or ropy milk, 332. 
in sour milk, 331. 
sources of, 3.30. 
as beverage of precibiculturists, 30. 
bitter, 331. 
boiled, 321. 
boiling of, 313. 
certified, 318. 

certified regulations of New York 

Medical Society for, 318. 
requirements for, general, 319. 

special conditions, 320. 
standards of American Association 
of Medical Milk Commissions, 
319. 
changes in separation of fats as cream, 
331. 
changes in, souring, 331. 
chemical composition of, as compared 
with eggs, beefsteak, cream 
cheese and white bread, 354. 
chemical nature of, 317. 
clean, production of, 332. 
clotting of, 310. 

boiling diluents to prevent, 312. 
colored, 332. 
comparative analysis of milk products 

and, 336. 
comparison of cow's and human, 325, 

326. 
composition of, 308. 
accessory substances or vitamines, 

316. 
casein, 308. 
comparative, in different animals, 

309. 
fat, 308. 
fractional, 327. 
milk sugar, 308. 

salts and suspended matter, 308. 
Tibbies' tables of, for various milks, 

327. 
variation in, 326. 
composition of some succulent vege- 
tables as compared with, 419. 



INDEX 



803 



Milk, conNtitin'iitH of. (tr^rniiic nnd inor- 
ganic. HnlKMM'k'H tniilr of, 311. 
Van Slyke'M tnblo (»f, aiO. 
dfflnition of, 307. 
dt»8ic('at«Ml, 324. 

c()in|MiHition of, 325. 
composition of cjiHcin and ilrlwl milk 
prcparntionH, nutricntM. per cent, 
32r>. 
mctluHls of niakinj^, 324. 
use of. 325. 
digestion of. 310. 
fermentation of, double, in kumiM and 

kephir, 330. 
flavors in. .332. 
fluidity of, 315. 

as a food rather than heverajje, 316. 
foo<l value of, .30J). 31."». 

comparison of, hy weight miuI ccwt 
with other foods. 30 1 
handling and care of, 333. 

transportation, 333. 
human. min(>ral content of, 261. 
infecttnl. 072. 

from cattle with foot and mouth dis- 
ease, (J72. 
microorganisms in, 687. 
modified, 325. 

ingredients of, 326. 
not a perfect food, 309, 313, 314. 
pasteurized, 320. 
home, 321. 
summary of, 322. 
percentage composition and fuel value 
per pound of whole milk and 
some milk products, 3.35. 
percentage composition of, together 
with milk products and other 
foods, 329. 
preservatives in, use of, 334. 
production of clean, 332. 
separation of fats of, as cream, 331. 
skim, 334. 

skim, composition of, 334. 
slimy or ropy, 332. 
souring of, 331. 
sterilization of, 323. 

process of, 323. 
transportation of, 3.33. 
treatment of, boiling, 321. 
desiccating, 324. 
general requirements for, 319. 
modified. .325. 
pasteurization, 320. 
home, 321. 
summary of, 322. 
special conditions for, 320. 
sterilization, 323. 
vitamines, of, 316. 
importance of, 316. 
where found, 317. 
Milk infection, diarrheal diseases from, 
688. 
diphtheria bacilli from, 689. 



Milk lAitviiutt, mrmrtrt Irrrr rpKimi 

to, Mt. 
tulwrmfliiiia. AAA, 
ly|>h«.i r4e»d U». Ml. 

Mifk |«.. .i. 

Milk priMJutU, AVI 
■Ition of. 7 

I. I 

< 8M. 



an«ly»U of milk ai 



k 
k 

mnt7.4Ntn. 341. 

nutrientii and imrc^- in, 32A. 

prrcentagt- ><»n and furl valit* 

P*T 1 .142. 

percentage (-oii)|MHiiti(>n and furl taluf 
jMT pound «if wlioir milk •i>d. 
.3.35 
percent ugr of, Utfprlhrt 

with - -••'-' f'»id«, 

321». 
skim milk, 
whey, 337. 
yaourt, 341. 
yoghoort, 340. 
Milk sugar, 88, .308. 
Millet, 401. 

com|K)Hition of, 402. 
proHo. 402. 
varieties of. 402. 
Milling, primitive. 36. 
Mincemeat, average r)M>micaI eompotitioo 

of, 759. 
Mineral content, of blood, 257, 261. 
of bo«ly. 255. 2.56. 
function of. 262. 
of bone«, 257. 561. 
of brain. 261. 
of excretions, 256. 
of food, 258. 
bromin. 274. 
calcium, 265. 
chlorin. 273. 
fluorin, 274. 
iodin. 273. 
iron. 206. 
magnesium. 26S. 
manganese. 275. 
oxalic acid. 274. 
pbosphorua, 271. 
potasaium, 260. 
silica. 274. 
sodium. 269. 
of human milk. 261. 
of liver. 257. 261. 
of Ivmph. 261. 
of meat. 279. 
of muscles, 257. 261. 



804 



INDEX 



Mineral content, of organs, 257. 
of spleen, 261. 
sulphur, 272. 
pf sweat, 257. 
of urine, 257. 
Mineral salts, in body, calcium, 264. 
ferruginous, 264. 
sodium chlorid, 263, 264. 
daily requirement of, for average adult, 
258. 
for infants, 259. 
derived from food, uses of, 264. 
form of, in body, 259. 
functions of, in body, 262. 
importance of, 255. 

to body, 255, 260. 
uses of, to body, 264. 
utilization of, 2.59. 
in vegetable foods, 371. 
Mint, 641. 
Modified milk, 325. 

ingredients used in, 326. 
Molasses, 622. 

adulteration of, 625. 
composition of, difference in, between 
molasses and successive crystalli- 
zations of sugar, 623. 
produced by open kettle process of boil- 
ing, *623. 
Monkeys, as food, 772. 
Monosaccharids, 84, 610. 
classes of, pentoses, 85. 
tetroses, 84. 
trioses, 84. 
conversion of, into corresponding alco- 
hols, 85. 
hexoses, 85. 
dextrose, 85. 
galactose, 86. 
glucosamin, 87. 
inosite, or muscle-sugar, 87. 
invert-sugar, 86. 
.sorbinose, 87. 
levulose, 86. 
Moonshine whiskey, 584. 
Morel, 450. 
Moths, as food, 772. 
Mouth, anatomy of, 108. 
bacteriology of, 226. 
palate, 109. 
teeth, 110. 
Mud baths, 537. 
Mulberry, 489. 
Muristic acid, 99. 
.Mu.Hcle juice, of meat, 279. 
Muscle, mineral content of, 255, 257, 261. 
Muscle-sugar, 87. 
Muscle tissue, of meat, 278. 
Muscular action, dependence of, on fat, 

460. 
Muscular activity, effect of alcohol on, 

573, 592. 
Muscular work, .sugar as food for, 636. 
Mushroom, edible, description of, 449. 



Mushroom, meadow, 449. 

parasol, 449. 
Mushrooms, toxic substances contained 

in, and tests for detecting, 660. 
Muskmelon, 513. 
Musk-ox, as food, 772. 
Mussels, 307. 
Mustard, 648. 

sulphur compounds of, 659. 
Mustard oil, 471. 
Mustard seed oil, 470. 
Mutton, 283. 

average chemical composition of, 
canned, 713. 
fresh, 712. 
cuts of, 701. 

factors influencing quality of, 284. 
Mutton fat, or suet, 466. 
Mydriatic alkaloids, contained in pota- 
toes, tomatoes and egg plant, 
661. 
Mytilotoxismus, 671. 



N 

Nerve action in digestive processes, 128, 
Nervous tissue, mineral content of, 257. 
Nickel, in preserved food, 685. 
Nitrates, in water, 242. 
Nitrites, in water, 241. 
Nitrogen, amount of, required daily by 
adult, 231. 

in solution in water, 239. 
Nitrogen starvation, 280. 
Nitrogenous extractives of proteins, 
amids, 83. 

betain, 83. 

guanidin, 83. 
Nitrogenous foods, 55, 231. 
Nitrogenous matter in cheese, 347. 
Nonproteid, definition of, 696. 
Nucleoprotein, 73. 
Nucleoproteins, 81. 
Nutmeg, preparation of, 649. 

tree producing, 649. 
Nuts, acorns, 506. 

almonds, 506. 

average chemical composition of, 755. 

beechnut, 507. 

Brazil nut, 507. 

bread nuts, 508. 

butter nuts, 508. 

candle nuts, 508. 

cashew nuts, 508. 

chestnuts, 508. 

chinquapin, 508. 

cocoanuts, 509. 

digestion of, 505. 

filberts, 509. 

as foods or as luxury, 504. 

as food precibiculturists, 26. 

food value of, 504. 

increased appreciation of, 506. 



INDEX 



806 



Nutfl, fuel value of, 606. 
ground nutH, fiUU. 
hazfl nuts, 509. 
hickory nuts, r>()U. 
kola or (loora-nut, 656. 
litchi i.uts, 509. 
nutritive value of. 504. 
pnrndiHc nuts, 500. 
peanuts, r)l(). 
pt'oan n»itH, 510. 
pignoliii nuts, 510. 
pine nuts, 510. 
pistachio nuts, 511. 
sapucaia nuts, 511. 
walnuts, 511. 



Oatmeal, composition of, 399. 
cooking: of, 400. 
digestibility of, 400. 
food and fuel value of, 400. 
Oats, active principles of, 660. 
composition of, 399. 

and of oat products, table of, 399. 
definition and market form of, 398. 
Oil, of cinnamon, 644. 
of cloves, 643. 
of coffee, 559. 
essential or volatile, 457. 
fats vs., 460. 
fixed, mustard, 648. 
of tea, 559. 

use of, by precibiculturists, 30. 
vegetable. See Vegetable Fats and Oils, 
volatile, of nutmeg, 649. 
See also Fats and Oils. 
Oils and fats, 97. 

acids entering into formation of gly- 
cerin esters of, 98. 
Okra, 438. 
Oleic acid, 99. 
Olein, 458. 
Oleomargarin, 466. 
Olive oil, adulteration of, 683. 
Olives, 494. 
Onions, 429. 

active principles of, 660. 
composition of, 424. 
Opossum, as food, 772. 

meat of, 286. 
Orache, 438. 

Orange, chief varieties of, 486. 
composition of, 486. 
cultivation of, 486. 
Oranges, active principles of, 660. 
Organic acids, acetic acid, 95. 
benzoic acid, 96. 
butyric acids, 95. 
citric acids, 96. 
formation of, 94. 
formic acid, 95. 
gallic acid, 96. 



Ornaie Mid*, j Ijrwllk 

occur r«iM9 of. M. 

oxalic Mid, M. 

•.uh. vlic Acid, 06. 

xtiirinir acid, 96. 

tannir acitf, 06. 

tartaric arid. 00. 
Oricanic matirr, p rw ai ol, in val*r. 140. 
Organio aubaUuMM, la fifvtabl* totiB, 

367. 
Ornithin. fornuiUoa of patraaeia fro«.ttO. 
Oamonia. and ftbaorpikm, t04. 

deflnition of. 205. 

aa explanation of ph«adMMA Of thuoff- 
turn. 172. 

phy»iolf»f(i(*«l tmporUuM of, t07, t08. 
Oainotic prcMiurr. drflnitioa of, aa applM 
to aolutiona. 305. 

exerte<l by cryMtalloida. 206. 

exerted bv protein. 206. 
Ostrich, aa foo<l. 772. 

0>'ereating. chronic, eooditkiM do* t^ 
604. 

diseaACJi due to, 663. 

temporarv. conditiona doe to, 66S. 
Oxalate of lime, prcM-nce of, in fooda, 274. 
Oxalates, in sorrel and tomatoes, 60S. 
Oxalic acid, 95. 

presence of, in fooda. 274. 
Oxalic acid poisoning, due to VW ol rfc»» 

barb leave** aa grecaa, 602. 
Oxydase, in tea, 541. 
Oxygen, in solution in water, 230. 
Oyster plant, 426. 
0^'ster8, danger of infection from, 673. 

'infection by, 689. 

food value 'and culture of, 305. 



Palate, anatomv of, 100. 
Palm oil, 46H. 
Palm sugar. 61H, 
Palmitic acid, 99. 
Palmitin, 458. 
Pancreas, anatomy of. 117. 

animal, as foixi. 295. 

induction of activation of, 153. 
Pancreatic juice, part played by, in fat 

absorption, 180. 
Pawpaw, 490. 

action of, on tough meaU. 400. 
Paracresol. formation of, from tyroaia, 

219. 
Paradise nuU, 600. 
Parasites, ameba coil, •00. 

Anchvlottomum dnodcBalt, 001. 

Ascafis lumbricoidea. 666. 

bilharxia haematobia or blood fluke. 66«. 

Bothriocephalus latuaj^'"" 

coccidium oviforme, ** 



806 



INDEX 



Parasites, diseases due to foods contain- 
ing, or ova of, 665. 

distoma hepaticum or liver fluke, 666. 

Filaria, or Dracunculus medinensis, 667. 

Filaria sanguinis hominis, 667. 

intestinal, 666. 

Oxyuris vermicularis, or pin-worm, 666. 

Rlmbdonema intestinale, 667. 

sources of, in food, 665. 

Tenia cucumerina, 666. 

Tenia echinococcus, 666. 

Tenia niediocanellata, 666. 

Tenia saginata, 666. 

Tenia solium, 666. 

Trichina spiralis, 667. 

Trichocephalus dispar, 667. 

trichomonas intestinalis, 665. 
Parrots, as food, 773. 
Parsley, 642. 

to.xic substances contained in, 658. 
Parsnips, 422. 

toxic substances contained in, 658. 
Passaflora edulis, 498. 
Pasteurization of milk, home, 321. 

summary of, 322. 
Pasteurized milk, 320. 
Pastrv, average chemical composition of, 

734. 
PAte de foie gras, 299. 
Pawpaw, 490. 

digestive ferments of, 661. 
Peach brantV, 483. 
Peach pits, hydrocyanic acid yielded from, 

658.* 
Peaches, 483. 
Peafowl, flesh of, 297. 

as food, 772. 
Peanut oil, 469. 
Peanuts, 510. 

Pears, alligator or avocado, 495. 
Pears, use of, as food, 481. 

varieties of, 481. 
Peas, analyses of, 747. 

canned, 447. 

chick, 446. 

comparison of beans and, 446. 

cow, 446. 

green, 439, 440. 

field, 445. 

garden, 446. 

green, composition of, 440. 
Pecan nuts, 510. 
Pectin, .369. 

Pectin bodies, in apples, 480. 
Peotose bodies, 92, 369. 
F'olican, as food, 773. 

Pellagra, alarming increase of, through- 
out United States, 678. 

chronic nature of, 678. 

as a deficiency disease, 678. 

as due to eollodial silica in drinking 
water, 675. 
to com, 396, 659, 678. 
to lack of vitamines, 677. 



Pellagra, as due to restricted one-sided, 
mainly carbohydrate diet, exper- 
iments on, 677. 
to vegetable diet, 676. 

etiology and pathology of, recent in- 
vestigations into, 675. 

endemic-epidemic nature of, 675. 

general conclusions on, 676. 

problem of, 675. 
Pemmican, 466. 
Penguins, as food, 773. 
Pennyroyal, active principles of, 661. 
Pentoses, 85. 
Pepper, 646. 
Peppermint, 641. 

medicinal action of, 658. 

medicinal nature of oil of, 661. 
Pepsin, action of, 153. 
Peptids, 83. 
Peptids and amino-acids vs. blood protein, 

196. 
Peptones, 83. 

absorption of, 168, 194. 
Peristalsis, 127. 

appearance of, 139, 

pyloric action, 137. 

views on, 136. 
Perry, 481. 

definition and manufacture of, 602. 
Persimmons, 483, 492. 

cathartic action of, 661. 
Pharynx, anatomy of, 110, 
Phenol, formation of, from tyrosin, 219. 
Phospho esters, aminolipins, 101. 

glycolipins, 100. 

lecithins, 100. 

phospholipins, 100. 

phytic acid, 100. 

sulpholipins, 100. 
Phospholipins, 100. 
Phosphoproteins, 80. 
Phosphorus, form of, in foods, 271. 

percentage of, in fresh foods, 271, 
in various foods, with content esti- 
mated, 272. 
in water-free substances, 271, 

presence of, in body and in food, 271. 
Physical test of food value, 57. 
Physiological test, of food value, 60. 
Phytic acid, 100. 
Pickles, 651. 

adulteration of, 652. 

average chemical composition of, 751. 

cold slaw, 652. 

sauerkraut, 652. 

sktshi, 652. 
Pickling, common household method of, 

651. 
Pidan, 358. 
Pie, analysis of, 742. 
Pigeons, 299. 
Pigments, 101. 

classification of, 101. 



INDEX 



807 



Pignolia nutn. 610. 
l*infa|)|>lo. r)03. 

(ll^fHtivf fiTtnonU of, 001. 
Piiu» nuts. 510. 
PiHtacliin nutM. r»I I. 
Pluiiis, 4H2. 

Poisoninjf bv c1mm««o, «71. 
by fish, «70. 
by prain. (173. 

actinomyctmiH, 079. 
boriU'ri* {\7ih 

luplnoHis. nr lathy rUm, 075. 
poHajfra, 075. 

sitotoxisimis, or ergotism, 074. 
by meat, 009, 673. 
by milk, fl72. 
protein, 192. 

ptoniain. See Ptomain poisoning, 
by shellfish. 671, 67:j. 
Poly saccha rids, colloidal, 89. 
cellulose, 91. 
dextrin. 90. 
glycogen. 90. 
inulin. 92. 
lichenin, 91. 
maltodextrins, 91. 
pectose bodies, 92. 
starch, 89. 
tetrasaccharids. 89. 
trisaccharids, 89. 
Pomegranate. 49.5. 

anthelmintic properties of, 001. 
Poppy seed oil, 469. 
Porcupine, as food, 773. 
Pork, average chemical composition of, 
canned pork, 718. 
fresh pork, 713. 

pickled, salted and smoked, 717. 
pork organs, 716. 
sausage, 718. 
cuts of, 701. 
ham and bacon, 285. 
infected with Trichina spiralis, 007. 
manners of eating. 285. 
Pork tapeworm, 666. 
Potassium, in body, 269. 

containing foods with content esti- 
mated. 270. 
Potato, composition of sweet and white, 
416. 
sweet, composition of. 414. 415. 410. 
cultivation of, 413. 
digestibility of, 414. 
keeping of, 413. 
presence of sugar in, 414. 
varieties of. 413. 
toxic substances contained in, 601. 
white, composition of, 410, 412, 415, 
416. 
cooking of, 412. 
desiccated, 412. 
food value of, 412, 413. 
historj' of, 410. 
structure of, 410. 



Potttt4»ni. nnnlv.ia ..f 747. 
'•' ' of. 10. 

. ' *«Ty of. 19. 

roultr^. Hre >o»U 
Pmwnii, 3115. 

PrvcihirulltirUU. ttrvrriM of» t§, 
frrmmtnl li(|u«ini, 7|. 

Juicr« ».f *r.,.l. i|^ 

milk, .in 
«il. 3<). 
watrr, 20. 
AM botaniaU. 28. 
food of. 21. 
of Uckward pMplas, 24. 
big gAJM. 24. 
OMMfimtnU. 27. 
ftth food. 26. 
. fruiU and b«ni«i. 26. 
hotiey, 27. 
human flr«h. 24. 
of North Amerlean IndUias. 22. 
aeedfl, larger, and nuta, 26. 
vegetable fooda, 25. 
Preservative mcthoda amoM th§ ladfaiMa, 

13. 
Preservativea. bormz and hort<> arid aiu 
copper, 085. 
formaldehvd. 085. 
ill effecta of, 085. 
nickel, 085. 
proper use of, 085. 
salicylic acid. 085. 
substances used as, 684. 
sulphite and bisulphide of aodimi, 666. 
sulphurous acid. 085. 
Preserves, average chemical eoapoaiUoM 

of. 754. 
Prickly pear. 504. 
Primates below man. diet of. 5. 
Primitive man. diet of. 2. 

methods of c(X)king used by, 21. 
Primitive milling. 36. 
Prolamins. 78. 
Proso millet. 402. 
Protamins. 79. 
Proteans. 83. 

Proteid. distiaetioB betwc^ protein and. 
697. 
use of term, 696. 
Protein, absorptioo of, in rcetal feeding. 
175. 
blood, amino-acids and ps|itidB vs.. 196. 
distinction between proteid aad. 697. 
foreign, absorption of. 190. 

relation of. U* infant's diet, 190. 
form of. absorbed. 189. 
meaning of. 693. 

normal forms of. when absorbed, 194. 
percentage of. absorbed from drr sab* 

stances in varkwa fooda, 169. 
relative absorption of, in varioos fooda, 

373. 
use of term. 696. 
Protein poisoning, albumosuria. 192. 



808 



INDEX 



Protein poisoning, auto-intoxication, 103. 
causation of, 192. 

sulphuretted hydrogen, 193. 
Protein value, in vegetable foods, 374. 
Proteins, absorption of, accompanying 
changes of villus and epithelium, 
189. 
albumoses and peptones, 194. 
amino-acids resulting from hydrolysis 

of complex proteins, 195. 
course of amino-acids in system, 199. 
extent of reduction before, 190. 
final processes of, 202. 
form of, 189. 

in form of amino-acids, 196. 
manner of, 188. 
normal course of, 198. 
normal forms of, after, 194. 
relation of amino-acids to, 19^, 196. 
relation of, to infant's diet, 190. 
action of, 73. 

in media, 221, 222. 
albumoses, absorption of, 194. 
aqiino-acids in, 67. 

table of, 66. 
basic, 79. 
chemical classification of, 73. 

by American biochemists, 75. 
chemistry of, amino-acids, 67. 

disintegration products of, 70. 
chemistry and physiology of, 65. 
chiefly affected in waste of food by 

overtaxed digestion, 133. 
classification of, in order of formation, 

196. 
coagulable, 75. 
coagulated, 83. 
complex, amino-acids resulting from 

hydrolysis of, 195. 
conjugated, 80. 

chromoproteins, 80. 
glyco- or glucoproteins, 80. 
lecithoproteins, 82. 
nucleoproteins, 81. 
phosphoproteins, 80. 
of cow's milk, or caseinogen, 192. 
definition of, 65. 

derivatives of, utilization of, in bacter- 
ial metabolism, 218. 
derived, 82. 

primary, protein derivatives, coagu- 
lated proteins, 83. 
metaproteins, 83. 
proteans, 83. 
peptids, 83. 
peptones, 83. 
proteoses, 83. 
digestion of, 74. 
factor of, 693. 

ingested, final processes of, 202. 
mineral content of, 262. 
nitrogenous extractives of, amids, 83. 
iM-Uiin, 83. 
guanidin, 83. 



Proteins, osmotic pressure exerted by, 
206. 
peptones, absorption of, 194. 
relation of, to infant's diet, 190. 
simple, albuminoids, 78. 
albumins, 75. 
globulins, 78. 
glutelins, 78. 
histons, 79. 
prolamins, 78. 
protamins, 79. 
in vegetable foods, 370. 
of wheat, 378. 
Proteoses, 83. 

Proximate principles of food, 54. 
chemistry and physiology of, 63. 
hydrocarbons, 92. 
inorganic salts, 102. 
table of, 76, 77. 
water, 103. 
Prunes, 482. 

damsons, 482. 
Ptomain poisoning, botulismus, allantia- 
sis of sausage poisoning, 669. 
galactotoxismus, or milk poisoning, 672. 
ichthyotoxismus, or fish poisoning, 670. 
kreotoxismus, or meat poisoning, 669, 
mytilotoxismus, or shellfish poisoning, 

671. 
symptoms of, 669. 

tyrotoxismus, or cheese poisoning, 671. 
Ptomains, absorption of, 668. 
foods containing, 668. 
liver as bodyguard of system against, 
668. 
Ptyalin, 122, 129. 
Pumpkin, 514. 

toxic substances contained in, 659. 
Pumpkin seeds, use of, as anthelmintic 

and as food, 661. 
Purin bodies, compounds of, 81. 
pyrimidin bases, 82. 
transformation of, by enzymes, to other 
members of group, 82. 
Putrescin, formation of, from ornithin, 

220. 
Pyloric action, 137. 
Pyrimidin bases, compounds of, 82. 



Q 

Quince, 482. 
Quinoa, 403. 

composition of, 403. 

nutrients, per cent, 403. 



Rabbit meat, 286. 
Raccoon, flesh of, 286. 
Radishes, 423. 

composition of, 423, 424. 

sulphur compounds of, 659. 



INDEX 



H^i\) 



T^nisins. 497. 

Hape oil. 471. 

HasplM-rrv, r)()0. 

Hn tafia. M)\. 

Rats and mice, an food. 772. 

Raynau<r« «liHeaiio, simulated by rrffotUm. 

«75. ' '^ 

Rwtal f.MMlinjr, ahiMirptlon of fata In, 17rt. 

ahsorptioM of protrin in, 175. 

absorption of salt and water In. 17ft. 

advantup' of. in ahaorptivi* ))ow«>r of 
lar^jo intestine for hhU an<l untor. 
175. 
Rectum, anatomy of, 116. 
Refuso. definition of. 695. 
Reindeer, as food. 773. 
Rennet, in ehrese manufarture. .142. 
Reptiles, unusual, somotimes uned for 
footi. See Animal Foo<l, unun 
ual. 
Reversibility of enxyme action, 150. 
Rhinoceros, as food, 773. 
Rhubarb, 4.35. 

contraindications to use of, 6G1. 
Rice, 389. 

coniposition of, .390. 

cultivation of. 390. 

digestion and absorption of, 390. 

"polished," beriberi due to, 662, 679. 
its insufficiency, 391. 
Roebuck berry, 500. 

Root food of North American Indians, 3. 
Root vegetables, arrowhead tubers, 426. 

beets, 421. 

carrots. 421. 

celeriac, 427. 

common succulent, 418. 

dahlias, 426. 

garlic, 429. 

horseradish, 425. 

kohl-rabi, 425. 

nutritive food value of, 420. 

parsnips, 422. 

salsifv or ovster plant, 425. 

shallot, 430* 

.skirret, 425. 

succulent, composition of, 420. 

turnips, 423. 

water chestnuts, 426. 

yautia. 417. 
Roots, condiments from, 644. 

as food of precibiculturists, 22, 26. 

as staple of diet of primitive man, 3, 
22. 

starch-bearing, composition of, 418. 
Roots and tubers, 409. 

classes of. 410. 

composition of, 420. 

dasheen, 428. 

Jerusalem artichoke, 416. 

lotus, 428. 

onions, 429. 

potato, sweet, 413. 
white, 410. 



RooU ttml tutim. alarhya. 417. 

Uplora. 429. 

taro tuiirr*. 417. 
HoM> apple. 401. 

HoM^ary, mrdirinal nalurr of oil "1 m* 
Itiitn. Drmrrara, AMU 

improirmimt of, w(lh agr. 6117. 

Jamaica. 6iUI. 

prtMTM of. 6MI. 
Ry«» eonponmi elrmenu »f. 40n 

poitMiiiK from. 074. 

■ttbiwt to smut Ju.« »-^'— • t.^^„,„g. 
•61. 

UMOl, 400. 



Saccharin, effect of, 026. 

nature of. 026. 

negative qualities of, i 

UM* of. 620. 
Saccharoae. 87. 
Saffron. 643. 

medicinal action of. 
Sage, 040. 

medicinal action of. 656. 

medicinal nature of oil of, 661. 
Sago. 428. 
Salads. 652. 

average chemical compoaition of. 760. 
Salicylic acid, 06. 

as food preaenratWe, 685. 
Saline solutionA. abaor|>CkNi of, 109. 
Saliva, action of. 120. 

amylolytic action of. Infhienee of 
perature on, 125. 

composition of. 124. 

function of. in proceM of digeatkm, 124. 

secretion of. a reflex action. 126. 
.Salivary glands, parotid, 116. 

of primitive man. 41. 

sublingual. 117. 

submaxillarv, 116. 
Salsify, 425. ' 

Salt, absorption of. in large Intcwtine, 175. 
in rectal fee<linj;. 176. 

action of, as condiment, 27. 

composition of. 060. 

evaporation of brine from aalt sprUifS 
650. 

mines containing. 050, 

value of. to animal life, 266. 
to man. 256. 

varioua actiona of. 661. 
Salta, abflorption of. 168. 

inorganic. 102. 

present in milk, 308. 
Sandwich, average cbemical cooipotittal 

of. 769. 
Sapodilla. 401. 
Sapucaia nut*. 511. 
.Saraaparilla. 602. 
Saaaafraa. 046. 

aaUaeptic voUtile oil of. 



810 



INDEX 



Sauerkraut. 652. 

Sausage, average chemical composition of, 

718. 
Sausage poisoning, 669. 
Savorv, medicinal action of, 658. 
Scallops, 207. 

Scarlet fever, due to milk infection, 689. 
Scleroproteins, 78. 
Sea foods. -See Shellfish. 
Seakale. 434. 
Seal, as food, 773. 
Seasonal variation of diet, 40. 
Secretin, 65. 

action of, 154, 157. 
action of condiments on, 28. 
activity of, 154. 
effect of alcohol upon, 574. 
Seeds, condiments from, 647. 

large, as food of precibiculturists, 26. 
small, as food of precibiculturists, 25. 
Serin, formula of, 71. 
Service berry, 499. 
Sesame oil, 469. 
Shaddock, 487. 
Shallot, 430. 
Sharks, as food, 773. 
Sheep, age for killing of, 284. 
nature and use of, 283. 
varieties of, 284. 
Shellfish, average chemical composition of, 
canned, 725. 
fresh, 724. 
chemical analysis of, 304. 
crustaceans, 304. 
carmotes, 305. 
clams, 307. 
crabs, 304. 
lobster, 304. 
mollusks, 305. 
mussels, 307. 
oysters, 305. 
prawns, 305. 
scallops, 307. 
shrimps, 305. 
snails, 307. 
Shellfish poisoning, 671. 
Shrimps, 305. 
Silica, presence of, in body and in foods, 

274. 
Sirup, adulteration of, 625. 
color of, 623. 

definition and kinds of, 622. 
sorghum, 624. 
Sirups, commercial, 624. 

composition of, percentages, 625. 
mixed, 624. 
Sitotoxismus. 674. 
Skim milk, 334. 

composition of, 334. 
Skirret, 425. 
BkUhi, 652. 

Skull, evolution of man in shape and de- 
velopment of, 9. 
Slippery elm, as a demulcent, 662. 



Sloths, as food, 774. 
Snails, 307. 

as food, 774. 
Snakes, as food, 774. 
Sodium, in body, 269. 
Sodium-containing foods, with content 

estimated, 270. 
Sodium chlorid, amount of, necessary for 
health, 269. 

importance of, to body, 263, 264. 

use of, as condiment, 264, 269. 

waters containing, 528. 

See also Salt. 
Sorbinose, 87. 
Sorghum sirup, 624. 
Sorrel, 438. 

oxalates contained in, 662. 
Soups, average chemical composition of, 

758. 
Sour apple, 489. 
Soy bean oil, 471. 
Soy bean sauce, 445. 
Soy beans, composition of, 444. 

food value of, 444. 

preparations made from, 445. 
Spearmint, 641. 

medicinal nature of oil of, 661. 
Spices, contra-indications to, 639. 

rOle of, 639. 

value of, 639. 

See also Condiments. 
Spiders, as food, 774. 
Spinach, 434. 

composition of, 432. 

winter, or orache, 438. 
Spleen, anatomy and physiology of, 118. 

mineral content of, 261. 
Spotted crake, as food, 774. 
''Spring lamb," Canadian goat meat sold 

for, 284. 
Spruce beer, 568. 
Squash, 514. 

toxic substances contained in, 659. 
Squirrels, as food, 774. 
St. John's bread, 493. " 
Stachyose, 89. 
Stachys, 417. 
Star apple, 492. 
Starch, 89. 
Starches, analyses of, 743. 

as carbohydrate in reserve, 367. 

cellulose covering of, in vegetables, 369. 

conversion of, into soluble starch and 
dextrin, 369. 

in vegetable foods, 367. 
Starch granules, action of cooking on, 369. 

formation of, 369. 

digestion of, ptyalin in, 122. 
Steak, chemical composition of poultry in 

comparison with, 298. 
Stearic acid, 99. 
Stearin, 458. 
Sterilization, of food, in stomach, 140, 

of milk, 323. 



INDEX 



811 



Steriliration, of milk, prooMt of, S23. 

SterolH, 1)3. 

StiiuulantH. dennition and action of, 668. 
Sfc also Alcohol nnd Alroholio Drink*. 
Stomach. uhMorption in. 103. 
of carholiydratcR, 186. 
anatomy ofj 111. 
bactcriolojfv of, 227. 
course of dif^stion in, 164. 
functions of, absorption of food, 141. 

maceration of fotul, 134. 
juices of. 8cc Oastric Juice, 180. 
movements of, stutly of, by mt^ann of 

Rttntgen rays,* 134. 
regulation of temperature, 140. 

as a reservoir for chymiflcation of 

fwHl, 133. 
sterilization of fotnl, 40. 
Stomach and intestines, animal, as food, 

296. 
Strawberry, 501. 
Succinic acid, 96. 
Succus entericus, 157. 

interaction of enzymes in, 168. 
Suet, 466. 

Sugar, absorption of, 168. 
Sugars, analyses of, 743. 
as an article of diet, 609. 
by natives of India, 637. 
assimilation of, 633. 

comparison of different kinds, 634. 
beet, physical properties of, compared 
with those of raw cane sugar, 
616. 
manufacture of, 615. 
burnt, or caramel or black jack, 622. 
by-products in manufacture of, mo- 
lasses, 622. 
sirup, 622. 
cane, "first," 614. 

manufacture of, 611-614. 

physical properties of, compared with 

those of raw beet sugar, 616. 
raw, 612, 614. 
raw and refined, 614. 
"second," 614. 
"third," 614. 
as circulating carbohydrate, 367. 
concentrated nature of, 635. 
consumption of, per capita, in different 
countries, 635. 
per capita, in leading countries of the 

world, 620. 
in United States, 619. 
cube, 621. 
dangers incidental to great increase in 

dietetic use of, 636. 
diabetic, 85. 

digestibility of, 631, 634. 
effect of, in lessening muscle fatigue, 

637. 
as a fat-sparer, 636. 
fattening properties of, 636. 
fermentation, tendency to, 632. 

53 



Buirani. f*nii#iiUtkNi, tjpm of. •». 

varirtira of. 69t. 
aa fcMMl. 1um\ valtt* of, CM, Ut. 

for mtiarular work. 636. 
furl vMlur r>f. «• a foud, 6S6. 6M. 
i: ■ ■ ■ 1. 

1 Miln du9 to. eai. 
"H bMlth of gnmitig tkil- 



irriUting rfffct of atrnaf aolofloaa of. 

on Umum, OJI. 
loaf, 020. 

maplr. olitaining aap fron tr«>o for. €17. 
of. 038. 
flIH. 

021. 

prfdigmtrd, 031. 

production of. compariaon of. fraa 
•ugar cane, sugar bret. sorglittM 
csnc. msple trr« sap and palM 
tree nap, 010. 
by countries, 010. 
aa a proteid-sparer, 636. 
rock candy, 021. 

sorghum, source a«d cultiratioo of. 616. 
adaptable for growing on anall scale. 

617. 
See Sugar, norghum. 
sources of, in nature. 010. 
date palm trees, 018. 
maple tree. 017. 
sorghum plant, or *TMiiaao sqgsr 

cane," 610. 
sugar beet, 614. 
sugar cane, 609. 
undigested. 631. 
use of honey in place of, 629. 
varieties of, monosaeeharida, or glo* 

coses. 010. 
in vegetable foods, 367. 

disaccharids, or sucroacs. 610. 
Sugar apple, 490. 

Sugar beet, compoaiticm of and its Juice. 
615. 
cultivation of, 015. 
history of, 614. 
Sugar beet industry. 015. 
Sugar cane, composition of, and its Juice. 
611. 
countries producing, 610. 
description of. 609. 
"graining or crystallizatioa** of, 612. 
hi8t«>ry of. OOO.'OIO. 
juice of, procedure with, 611. 
"mass* cuite." 013. 
procedure with. Oil. 
propagation of. Oil. 
Sugar drops. 027. 

Sugar industry. derdopoMBt of. 635. 
Sugar refining, principles of, 620. 

sugars requiring. 020. 
Sugar Tinegar, 005. 
Sugars, amyloae groap of, 80. 



812 



INDEX 



Sugars, cane sugar group, or disaccharida, 

87. 
grape sugar group, or monosaccharids, 

84. 
raffinose group of, 89. 
Sulphite and bisulphite of sodium as food 

preservative, 685. 
Sulpholipins, 100. 
Sulphur, presence of, in foods, 272. 
Sulphur-containing foods, with content 

estimated, 272. 
Sulphuretted hydrogen, toxic effects of, 

193. 
Sulphurous acid, as food preservative, 

685. 
Summer savory, 641. 
Sunflower seed oil, 471. 
Swallowing. See Deglutition. 
Swans, as food, 774. 
Sweat, mineral content of, 257. 
Sweet basil, 641. 
Sweet marjoram, 641. 
Sweetbreads, pancreas ("belly"), 295. 
thymus gland ("neck" or "throat"), 

295. 
Swordfish, as food 774. 



Tallow, 466. 
Tamarind, 493. 
Tannic acid, 96. 
Tapeworms, See Parasites. 
Tapioca, 429. 

toxic substances contained in, 662. 
Tapir, as food, 775. 
Taro tubers, 417. 
Tarragon, 642. 
Tartaric acid, 96. 
Tea, adulteration of, 683. 

amount of, consumed, 545. 

cafTein in different varieties of, 543. 

China and Indian, 541. 

composition of cup of, 542. 

cultivation of, 540. 

"drawing" of, 542. 

green and black, 540. 
composition of, 541. 

before and after preparation of tea 
leaves, 642. 

oil of, 559. 

proper method of infusing, 544. 

quality of, 541. 

tannin in different varieties of, 543. 

toxic substances contained in, 659. 
Tea plant, 540. 
Teeth, evolution of, 45. 

summary of, in connection with evo- 
lution of digestive system, 47. 

form, structure and number of, 110. 
Temperature, effect of alcohol upon, 

672. ^ 

Terpenea, 93. 
Terrapin, 305. 



Tests, of food value, 57. 
chemical, 57. 
economic, 60. 
physical, 57. 
physiological, 60. 

physiological, of digestibility of food, 
162. 
Tetrasaccharids, stachyose, 89. 
Tetroses, 84. 

Thermal saline waters, 530. 
Thyme, 642. 

medicinal nature of oil of, 661. 
Thymus gland, animal, as food, 295. 
Tin poisoning, from preserved food, 685. 
Tissue formers, 56. 
Toad, as food, 775. 
Tomato seed oil, 471. 
Tomatoes, 437. 

oxalates contained in, 662. 

toxic substances contained in, 661. 
Tongue, of animals, as food, 295. 
Tonka bean, 648. 
Tortoise, as food, 775. 
Toxemia, alimentary, 193. 
Toxic substances, foodstuffs containing, 

557-662. 
Toxins, 668. 
Triatomic alcohols, 93. 
Trichiniasis, cause and prevention of, 667. 

symptoms of, 667. 
Trionyx ferox, as food, 775. 
Trioses, 84. 
Tripe, 295. 
Trisacchi^rids, melitose, 89. 

melizitose, 89. 
Truffles, 449. 
Trypsin, action of, 152. 
Tryptophan, formation of indol from, 218. 
Tuberculous meat, 688. 

milk infection, 688. 
Turkey, flesh of, 297. 

varieties of, 297. 

wild, 299. 
Turmeric, 644. 
Turnip, composition of, 424. 

cultivation of, 423. 

sulphur compounds of, 659. 

use of, as food, 423. 

varieties of, 423. 
Turnip tops, 439. 
Turtles, 305. 

as food, 775. 
Typhoid fever, due to milk infection, 689. 

due to oysters, 689. 

due to water, 243. 
Tryosin, formation of paracresol from, 
219. 

formation of phenol form, 219. 
Tyrotoxismus, 671. 



U 



Urine, mineral content of, 257. 
Ustilago maidis, source of, 661. 



TXDEX 



813 



Vanilla, active princtplen of, 
Vanilla iM'an, (J47. 
N'l'ul, av«'raj?t» chi'mical compMlilon of, 
fr»'«h. 7(M). 
veal orj^anN, 711. 
cuts of, 7()0. 
Vegetable and animal foodii, relative 
valuoa of. 50. 
unclassified, average elieniiottl eompoei* 
tion of, 758. 
Ve|^«table fats and oils, 4«7. 
absorption of. 407. 
almond oil, 4«9. 
apricot kernel oil, 471. 
cacao fat. 470. 
coconnut oil, 470, 
corn oil, 471. 
cottonstH'd oil. 470. 
linsee<I oil, 471. 
mustard oil, 471. 
mustard sewl oil, 470. 
olive oil. 4(»9. 
palm oil, 408. 
peanut oil, 409. 
poppy seed oil, 469. 
rape oil, 471. 
sesame oil, 409. 
soy bean oil, 471. 
sunflower seed oil, 471. 
tomato seed oil, 471. 
value of, 407. 
Vegetable foods, algae, 450. 

average chemical composition of. 729- 

757. tiee also special subjects, 
bulky, digestion and absorption of, 372. 
carbohydrates in, pectin or pectoee 
bodies, 309. 
starch, 307. 
sugar, 307. 
cellulose as factor in digestion and ab- 
sorption of, 372. 
cereal breakfast foods, 404. 
cereals, 375. 
barley, 401. 
bread, 384. 
buckwheat, 404. 
corn, 392. 
flour, 280. 
kaoling, 403. 
millet, 401. 
oats, 398. 
proso millet, 402. 
quinoa, 403. 
rice, 389. 
rye, 400. 
wheat, 376. 
chemical characteristics of, 365. 
constituents of, inorganic substances, 
300. 
nutritive substances, 367. 
organic substances, 367. 
vs. those of human body, 366. 



XrirrUhb foods. «M| of. 4Jt. 

diffrntiao «ad ftteorpUo* of* 971. 

uf Imlky vtvrt«t>te futMl* art. 

crIlultMr 

rttrct of '•'irptlM 

on nutnt. 

farturn ctinrrr i 

r«kUve ebwrptifm at prtHrin m va* 
rioM foQde, tit, 

Ublt abowinir rvkitiw elMorpUiNi af 
MUM animal ami vntruble fao4«, 
872. ^^ 

faU in. .170. 

food value of. va. niMit. 3€7. 
funjcl. Ilrhmn. al|raf. 447. 
fungi iir«wf«*«l. agar agar. 4AI. 
greet! vegvUblffiK 430. 

ariiebaM gnene, 4S7. 

aaparagtM, 4Se. 

cabtMge. 43.1. 

celery, 435. 

chickorv. 438. 

com|io<iition of. 430. 431, 4IS. 

eookins of. 431. 

dandelionn. 4.18. 

digestibility of. 431. 
cookeil. 4.13. 
raw. 4.13. 

endive, 437. 

food value of. 430. 

greens or pot herba, 439. 

kttuce. 435. 

okra. 4.18. 

orache. 4.18. 

peas and beans, 439. 

rhubarb, 436. 

shelled beuis. 439. 

sorrel. 438. 

spinach, 434. 

tomatoes. 437. 

turnip tops, 439. 

water cress, 430. 
inferior substances in, 370. 
inorganic substances in, 360. 
legumes or pulses, dried, 441. 

lentils, 447. 

peas. 445. 
lichenn, 447, 450. 
mineral salts in. 371. 
of Xorth American Indiaas, tt. 
nutritive subittances of, e«rbohjdr»tai^ 
367. 

faU. 370. 

inferior. 370. 

proteins. 370. 

water and mineral salts, 371. 
nutritive value of, 374. 

effect of inooniplet«neas of a h soc pM oM 
on. 373. 

protein value: the vegeiariaa qM*- 
tion. 374. 
organic substances in. 367. 
proteins in, 370. 
relative cost of animal and, 37ft. 



811 



INDEX 



Vegetable foods, roots and tubers, 409. 
arrowhead tubers, 426. 
celeriac, 427. 
classes of, 410. 
dahlias, 426. 
dasheen, 428. 
garlic, 429. 

Jerusalem artichoke, 416. 
lilv bulbs, 428. 
lotus, 428. 
onions, 429. 
potato, sweet, 413. 

white, 410. 
sago, 428. 
shallot, 430. 
stachys, 417. 
tapioca, 429. 
taro tubers, 417. 
water chestnuts, 426. 
yautia, 417. 
root vegetables, beets, 421. 
carrots, 421. 
common succulent, 418. 
composition of, 420. 
horse radish, 425. 
kohlrabi, 425. 
nutritive value of, 420. 
parsnips, 422. 
radishes, 423. 
salsify, 425. 
skirret, 425. 
turnips, 423. 
vitamines in, 378. 
water in, 371. 
Vf^getable marrow, 514. 
Vegetables, canning of, 684. 
cooking, of, 16. 
as food of precibiculturists, roots, 25. 

seeds, small, 25. 
influence of cultivation of nutritive 

properties of, 5. 
as main food of primitive man, 2. 
oil-bearing, percentage composition of, 

468. 
various, analyses ol, 745-746. 
Vegetarian question, 374. 
Venison, 284. 
Vermouth, 591. 
Vinegar, 603. 

cider or apple, 602, 605. 
glucose, 605. 
malt, 605. 

meaning of term, 605. 
"mother" of, 603. 
perry, 602. 
Hugar. 605. 
wine, 605. 
V'inegar plant, 603. 

Viscera, animal, as food. See Animal Vis- 
cera as Food. 
VMtamines, 64. 
action of. 234. 
"curative," 235. 
deHtruction of, by heat. 279. 



Vitamines, foods containing, 235. 

growth-producing, foodstuffs containing, 

235. 
importance of, 378. 
of meat, 279. 
in milk, 316. 

importance of, 316. 
where found, 317. 
nature and r61e of, 234 
pellagra due to lack of, 677. 
Volatile esters, 97. 



W 



Walnuts, 511. 

Walrus, as food, 775. 

Water, absorption of, 167, 169. 

in large intestine, 175. 

in rectal feeding, 175. 

lymphatic, 171. 
action of, on digestion, 520. 
appearance of, 238. 
bacteria in, 242. 

bacillus coli communis, 243. 

cholera germs, 243. 

detection of, by chemical analysis, 
245. 

typhoid bacilli, 243. 
bacterial activity in, 240. 
as beverage of precibiculturists, 29. 
boiling of, application of, to cookery, 20. 

history of, 17. 
chemical and bacteriological analysis 

of, 245. 
color of, 239. 
composition of, 238. 
course of, in system, introduction, 171. 

lymphatic absorption, 171. 
diaphoretic function of, 250. 
as digestive aid, 249, 250. 
distillation of, 245. 
diuretic function of, 250. 
for drinking, chemical and bacteriologi- 
cal analysis ol, 245. 

distillation, 245. 

temperature of, 250. 

time of, 250. 
eliminative function of, 248. 
function of, as food, 248. 
ice and snow, 244. 
impurities of, 522. 
medicinal use of, by primitive people, 

30. 
necessity of, 249, 519. 
odor of, 239. 

parasites found in, 665, 667. 
percentage of, in fish, 301. 

in meat, 281. 
physical and chemical properties of, 

238. 
potable, 522. 
as proximate principle of food, 103. 



INDEX 



«!r, 



VVator, pure. 237. 

qualitative i-xaiiiination of. tnhli- nhow 
iufi roa^fiitn n..-.— ntv i..r 'J4fl, 
247. 
river, 245. 
sources of, 244. 
ice and «now, 244. 
river. 245. 

8prin>;8 and wella, 244. 
Bprinjj, 244. 

BubstanceM in Hohitifm and iiusi 
in. ammonia, 241. 
bacteria, 242. 
carbon dioxid, 240. 
chlorins and chlorids, 242. 
nitrates, 242. 
nitrites, 241. 
nitrogen and oxygen, 230. 
organic matter, 240. 
sulphated iron, 532. 
taste of, 239. 

therapeutic value of. 2.'>0. 2.'»1. 
uses of, in human system, as aid in di- 
gestion, 240. 
diuretic and diaphoretic, 260. 
eliminative, 248. 
as food, 24.">. 
summary of, 251. 
value of, 237. 
in vegetable foods, 371. 
well, 244. 
Water chestnuts, 426. 
Water cress, 436. 

sulphur compounds of, 659. 
Water cures, 537. 

Water drinking at meal time, 519, 538. 
conclusions on, 538. 
eflFect of, 538. 
Watermelon, 513. 

Waters, alkaline, alkaline acidulous, 525. 
alkaline nuiriated acidulous. 525. 
alkaline saline acidulous, 525. 
simple acidulous. 525. 
springs supplying, in United States, 

527. 
table of. .529. 
arsenic and iron. 532. 
bitter or purgative, 523. 

analysis of, 525. 
bromin and iodin, 528. 
calcic, 535. 

chemical composition of, 636. 
sources of. in America, 5.36. 
carbonated iron, 532. 
chalybeate and ferruginous, 532. 
American. 533. 
carbonated iron, 532. 
iron and arsenic. 532. 
purgative chalybeate, 532. 
sulphated iron, 532. 
table of, 534. 
classification of. according to Rivers 

Pollution Commission, 521. 
according to Rosenau, 521. 



Watrm. acvonliiig to 

Mlft. At I. 

forrugiadtas, MS. 
In», Aatrtoui, fl 

Imh anil aramir. 



. hAfd. ftSI. 



B32. 



mineral, ^23. 
•UmIIm, MS. 
ratrtr. ASS. 
rhajyliratr «n«l frr 

plirifiit i\.- or tiilf^r 



put, : bittrr. 523. 

annlVHiH of. 525. 
Ubie of. 526. 
purgative rhalybrate. SM. 
naline, bromin and iodin* 
lithium prmrnt in, 
nimple nodium chlorid. SSS. 
table of. 531. 
thermal Mlinf. 530. 
sodium chlorid. 528. 
sulphurout. 533. 

American source* of, S3S. 
table. 522. 

analvsin of. 523. 
Uble of, .524. 
therapeutic, 523. 
therapeutic efTectii of. 523. 
thermal, mud bathH, 537. 

principal springs of. in United 8tat#m, 
636. 
thermal saline, 530. 
Waxes, definition of. 90. 
Wether, flesh of, 2H4. 
Whale, as food, 775. 
Wheat, 376. 
analysis of, and of products of roller 

milling. 381. 
cerealin layer of, 378. 
composition of. cerealin layer, 378. 
germ, or embryo, 378. 
gliadin, 379. 
gluten. 378. 
glutenin. 370. 

internal substsnee or kernel. S78L 
p«>rcentagefl, of entire ffniin. 37t. 
percentages, of parts of grain. S7t. 
elements of component parts of grains 

of. 376 
importance of, as foodstuff. 376. 
origin of. as fitodstuff, 376. 
Wheat brea<l. composition of eooked eom 

preparniions snd. 396. 
Whej, eonpMition and nutritivo vmlw of. 

formation of, SSI. 

home-made^ 337. 
Whey cure. 337. 
Whiskey, definition of. 



816 



INDEX 



Whiskey, grain, 583. 

Kentucky Bourbon, 583. 

malt, 582. 

Monongahela. 583. 

Moonshine. 584. 

patont-still, 584. 

pot-still, 584. 

Scotch and Irish, 583. 

sour ma^h. 584. 

sweet mash, 584. 
Whortleberry, 408. 
Wine, adulteration of, 682. 

composition of, 594. 

how produced. 594. 

preparation of, 595. 

process of fermentation of, 595. 

acid, 597. 

aroma and bouquet of, 598. 

aromatic, 596. 

classification of, according to character 
and composifon, 596. 

composition of. 598. 
table of, 599. 

daily use of, 602. 

effect of, on digestion, 600. 

natural, 596. 

perfect. 597. 

rough, 597. 

sophisticated, 598. 

as source of nutriment, 601. 



Wine, sparkling, 597. 
champagne, 597. 

strong dry, 596. 

strong sweet, 596. 

use of, 601. 
Wine vinegar, 605. 
Wintergreen, 642. 
Wolves, as food, 775. 



Xanthophyll, 101. 
Xylan, 85. 



Yautia, 417. 

Yeast, compressed, average chemical com- 
position of, 757. 
Yoghoort, bacteria and making of, 340. 

composition of, 340. 

digestibility of, 341. 



Zinc, in preserved food, 685. 
Zulus, carrion or decomposed flesh as food 
of, 775. 



(2) 



o 



u »• 

O -H: 

o a 

CO 



1-1 

•^ •§ -8 

It 



« o 
o o 

•" s 

u 
o 



UmVersity of ToroDfo 
L'brary 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Libnuy Card Pocket 
U»der P»c -IW. Isdtt Flit- 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



llilllillllllllliiiilillillliilll 



lillll!ii illlil 



illi ■■ ' '' 



^r::i\^'M 



iiillllili 1 



illliliilH 
i"!|N;i::!!|ii|ij!|||{|{|||{||{{{||{{|i|j{nm^ 






iliiiii iil!t!i!liiMil|!li i 

:..,i.:|j|||!jj|||Jii|P^^^^^ 

::^:-i:i^in^llj|j!i!iijl 

!;i!n 



:llil 



^^m 



liiiiiiiiiii 



iiii|i||i||jil! Ill''* ^* 

iijiiii 



.;)5:;i;tK; ! ( 



; i ■. f ! • i 1 1 ] ( ' ' ' " 



i! 
''li l! 

iiiilii! 



'lai SHI li 



II ! 



iiiiiiii||lllii 



iiiiliii 



^i jiiiiiiii 



I ■'! ! 



i 



!l 






:iliillliiiiliii I 



