WHAT TO EAT AND 
HOW TO PREPARE IT 

ELIZABETH A. MONAGHAN 



WHAT TO EAT AND 
HOW TO PREPARE IT 

BY 

ELIZABETH A. MONAGHAN 



WITH A PREFACE BY 

SARAH GERTRUDE BANKS, M.D. 



/*•>■ 




NEW ^%SJT YORK 
GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY 




COPYRIGHT, 1922, 
BY GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY 



7/ S 



WHAT TO EAT AND HOW TO PREPARE IT. I 



PRIKTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 



PREFACE 

The relation of food to health is becoming more 
and more the subject of discussion and research 
among the medical profession. This because many- 
diseases, the cause of which baffled science until re- 
cently, are now known to be the result of "food defi- 
ciency" ; which means, not a lack of food, but a lack 
of the right kind of food, or of the right elements in 
the food obtained. How many more of the rapidly 
increasing ills of the race shall be traced and the 
cause definitely nailed to this same "food deficiency" 
remains to be learned. That there will be more we 
are satisfied. That many of the lesser ills which are 
today treated negligently are due to dietetic errors 
there can be no question. 

Meantime the only safeguard against the numer- 
ous packages of "foodless foods" with which the 
market is flooded is a knowledge of what is food; 
what elements are positively essential to the nour- 
ishment and functioning of the human body; what 
happens when these elements constitute a portion of 
the daily dietary and what happens when they do 
not. Only such foods as contain these elements — at 
least in some small degree — can be rightly classed as 
"Foods." The best and most complete foods being 



VI 



Preface 



obviously those which contain all the elements in 
approximately the right proportion. 

This little book places such knowledge within the 
easy grasp of every reader with a clearness which is 
simplicity itself. Miss Monaghan has given not 
only a clear vision on the subject of food and what 
is food; she has taught how to select, combine and 
prepare it. She has told not only what to do but 
with equal deftness how to do it. Her book should 
be an inspiration to every housewife. It would be 
well if every mother in the land could have a copy 
and live thereby. 

Forty years ago there was less imperative need for 
such knowledge. Natural foods were easier to ob- 
tain. We thrived on these natural foods without 
knowing why, nor needing to know. Throughout a 
long and very active practice I have seen and noted 
the results of both the old and new methods of living. 
Malnutrition with its consequent evils has kept 
steady pace with the refinement of foods. 

Today with our splendid knowledge of sanitation 
and the prevention of contagious diseases (knowl- 
edge which was not ours in the early days), we are 
threatened with an evil which is more deadly because 
it is stealthy. It does not strike us down and rouse 
us to fight it. It robs us a little at a time, leaving us 
easy prey to every ill. Thus we lose sight of the 
cause. Malnutrition has many phases. 

Food refinement began innocently enough. It has 
been carried too far. "Food deficiency disease" 



Preface vii 

started investigation and experimentation. The 
findings of Dr. Henry C. Sherman of Columbia Uni- 
versity and of other men of equal courage and repute 
cannot be questioned. 

It makes no difference whether food is "fine" or 
"coarse." It does make a difference whether or not 
it contains the elements necessary to life and health. 
"Refining" food robs it of these elements. 

Alfred W. McCann's book has done much to open 
the eyes of the public on this subject. Miss Mon- 
aghan in the following pages has made this knowl- 
edge practical and applicable in the home. The 
urge to greater simplicity in diet is also a stride 
in the right direction. Her carefully outlined plan, 
if earnestly followed, cannot fail to bring results in 
belter health. 

Sarah Gertrude Banks, M.D. 



INTRODUCTION 

This little book is the outgrowth of the writer's 
enthusiasm over Mr. McCann's remarkable work on 
dietetics — "The Science of Eating." It is designed 
to be a help to those who have also read his book 
and who desire to plan their dietary in accordance 
with his findings. 

It is, therefore, assumed that all who consult 
these suggestions are already familiar with the as- 
tounding facts unveiled through the pages of "The 
Science of Eating." 

The recipes given are very simple and old- 
fashioned. The effort has been to get away from 
fancy perverted habits of eating. They will pos- 
sess their greatest value to those who are thoroughly 
familiar with the points given in Chapters I and II 
and who therefore clearly understand the Reason 
for conserving all the food value in all of our food. 
Values which have been so wantonly destroyed. 

After having spent twelve of the best years of my 
life fighting for my health and having put myself on 
my feet by a study of food value, it is no wonder 
that I feel an enthusiasm and a desire to pass the 
good word along. It is very pleasant to be compli- 
mented everywhere I go on the change in my ap- 
pearance; but the thing which really counts is the 



Introduction 



wonderful feeling of vitality which is my actual 
possession. 

Mr. McCann's book pointed out to me so clearly 
and forcefully the cause of my low resistance and 
lack of vitality and made the Remedy so simple and 
easy to follow that I became imbued with enthusiasm 
and preached its gospel to all of my friends — espe- 
cially those who had children or any illness in the 
family. Again and again I put this gospel to the 
test with undernourished children or ailing friends 
and always with the most beneficial results. Invari- 
ably from these I was deluged with a list of ques- 
tions—How ?— Why %— Where ? 

Dozens of times these tests and discussions took 
place before the thought came to me to compile 
these recipes and suggestions into this little book. 

It is not that there are any difficulties to be met 
in preparing our food in this new (old) way, but we 
are all creatures of habit and any change of routine 
is always upsetting. 

The new routine (with its definite health-giving 
reasons) when once established will be found even 
easier than the old. 

This little book then is designed to act as a bridge 
between the old routine and the new; making the 
step over easier, requiring less personal thought. 



E. A. M. 



CONTENTS 

mmu 

Preface by Sarah Gertrude Banks, M.D. . . vii 

Introduction ix 

Part I: The Need and Its Remedy 
I The Corner Stones of the New Routine \$ 



II The Necessity for the Change 

III Food Classifications 

IV Calories vs. Vitamines . 

V The Corner Stones Again . 

VI Getting Your Mind Ready 

VII Getting Your Kitchen Ready 

VIII Reflections on the Situation 



20 

25 
29 

36 

39 

43 

50 



IX Whole Wheat Bread — The Staff of Life 54 

Part II: Preparing the Food: Recipes 

X Preparing the Food 63 

breakfast grains 64 

milk 68 

BRAN 71 

soups 73 

vegetable sauces 78 

vegetables 80 

BREADS 88 

SALAD HINTS 96 

SALAD DRESSINGS 101 

FRUIT ... . . . 103 

si 



xu 



Contents 



NUTS 

DESSERT SUGGESTIONS 
SOME UNUSUAL RECIPES 
VEGETABLE TONIC 
SWEETS FOR THE KIDDIES 
SWEET SANDWICH FILLERS 
CANDIES 



Part III: Combining the Food: Menus 
XI Foods for Mineral and Vitamines . 

breakfast menus 

luncheon menus 

fourteen (4-course) meatless din- 
ner menus 

seven dinner menus including meat 

seven dinner menus including meat 
substitutes 

fourteen simpler dinner menus 
without meat 

Are You Approaching Overweight? . 

A Word About Appetites 

Don'ts for the Children 



XII 

XIII 

XIV 

XV 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 



PAGE 

105 

106 

110 

114 
116 
117 

120 



125 
126 

128 

131 

135 

137 

140 

145 
147 
149 



Part IV: Obstacles and Successes 

Underfed Children 153 

The Girl Who Works 158 

Margaret's Thyroid 161 

The Genuine Milk Cure 165 

The Semi-milk Diet 169 

Personal Application 172 

Thk Story of the Kronprinz Wilhelm . 178 



PART I 
THE NEED AND ITS REMEDY 



WHAT TO EAT AND 
HOW TO PREPARE IT 



THE CORNER STONES OF THE NEW 
ROUTINE 

FIRST CORNER STONE 

The suggestions and directions given in the pages 
which follow are for the mothers and housewives. 
For those on whose shoulders rests the responsibility 
of feeding the family. It is necessary, however, 
before undertaking these practical lessons to know 
exactly to what end you are working — and why. 

For this purpose let us take "The Science of 
Eating" and from its unlimited fund of information 
separate two central facts to serve as the foundation 
stones of our dietary. Get a thorough knowledge of 
these two corner stones and you can't go wrong in 
preparing menus which will make your children 
strong and keep them strong. 

The first of these "Central Facts" is found in the 
chapter on "Dust thou art and unto dust thou shalt 
return" — pages 55 and 61, where we are told forci- 

15 



16 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

bly what we have all known in a hazy sort of way — 
viz. : — 

There are sixteen minerals designed by the Al- 
mighty as the food elements of the vegetable and 
animal kingdoms. 

There can be no doubt about this for these sixteen 
minerals are found repeating themselves all through 
nature. Analyze chemically a handful of earth or 
a glass of milk or an egg or a grain of wheat or even 
your own body. You will find the same sixteen 
elements. How came they there ? Through food — ■ 
and food alone. Their presence in the right propor- 
tion spells health. Their absence spells low resist- 
ance, sickness and even death. 

We can't absorb these minerals from the earth as 
found there. 

The plant absorbs them from the earth. We get 
them from the plant as food. 

These sixteen elements are just as necessary for 
the growth and health of our bodies as they are nec- 
essary for the growth and life of the plant. 

When a farmer reaps a crop he knows that said 
crop has taken from the soil certain food elements. 
Before planting another crop he replaces those ele- 
ments to the soil by means of a fertilizer. Why? 
Because he knows that without these minerals his 
next crop will not thrive. 

Yet we intelligent (?) humans have been pre- 
paring and eating our food to please our palates only 
with no thought whatever of the mineral elements 



The Corner Stones of the New Routine 17 

necessary to sustain our bodies in a state of health. 
Through our ignorance we have lost these precious 
minerals in two ways : 

1st. By our methods of cookery we have boiled 
them out of our vegetables and thrown the water 
containing the minerals down the sink. 

2nd. The millers have removed them from our 
grains. 

Wheat — i.e., the entire wheat berry — the grain — 
contains the whole sixteen minerals. Yet in the 
milling of white flour three-quarters of these build- 
ing materials have been removed. 

Our white bread contains no food value. This 
is also true of white rice and of all denatured cereals. 
It has been positively proven that the removal of 
these minerals is the cause of malnutrition among 
children and the primary cause of all our illnesses. 
Hence : 

It is our plan now to obtain and use meal made 
from the whole grain and to so prepare our food as to 
conserve all the food value. 

This is the basis for our new routine. 

SECOND CORNER STONE 

The second "Central Fact" which we must thor- 
oughly learn to have it serve as our second corner 
stone will be found in the chapter on "Bases and 
Acids in Food" (pp. 142 and 155, "Science of 
Eating"). 



18 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

In this for the sake of clearness we are given an 
illustration with which we are all familiar, viz.: — 

Dissolve some baking soda and stir into it some 
cream of tartar (or molasses or vinegar). Instantly 
they bubble and froth. 

The cream of tartar (or vinegar) is an acid, the 
baking soda is an alkali. (In the mixing of the two 
we call the alkali the "base.") 

When the two come together they fight it out until 
they neutralize each other. 

Some acids are very strong, others are feeble, but 
all acids are neutralized when brought in contact 
with "bases" (alkalis). 

This point is very important. 

Bases and acids neutralize each other and this 
process of neutralization is constantly going on in 
our bodies. 

Our bodies are constantly manufacturing acids. 
There must be bases enough in our food to neutralize 
them. 

Certain of our foods are acid-forming. Others 
are base-forming. If these are properly balanced 
all is well — but it is clear that if we eat an acid- 
forming food and another and another acid-forming 
food without sufficient alkaline or base-forming food 
trouble must ensue. 

Unless the acids manufactured in our bodies are 
neutralized by bases a condition of Acidosis is 
brought about. 



The Corner Stones of the New Routine 19 

Acidosis is the primary cause of nine-tenths of our 
illnesses. 

Acidosis is sometimes called anemia, sometimes 
neuritis, nervous breakdown, etc. The form it takes 
makes little difference. The cause is the same. 

All foods as found in nature are "balanced" (con- 
taining both acid and base forming elements) . 

But the bases are always mineral and when we 
have wasted our minerals in the way hereintofore 
described we have thrown away our bases and have 
left only the acid-forming elements. Thus: — 

Whole wheat is "balanced." White flour is acid- 
forming. 

Baked potatoes are "balanced." Boiled potatoes 
are acid-forming. 

In both instances we have lost the minerals by 
methods of milling or cooking. 

This is what we are planning to avoid. 

Now — we can sum up our knowledge of our two 
corner stones in this one sentence: 

We will conserve our minerals by cooking our 
vegetables more sanely and by insisting on meal 
made from the whole grain. 

And we must have our food properly balanced 
as to acids and bases. 

THE CORNER STONES 

ISt. CONSERVE THE MINERALS. 
2nd. BALANCE THE ACIDS. 



II 

THE NECESSITY FOR THE CHANGE 

There is also a third Big Fact to present to your 
intelligence before you are well launched and that 
is: — 

Why are these mineral elements necessary to sus- 
tain the body in a state of health"? 

It is not enough to be presented with an arbitrary 
rule. The intelligence demands a Reason for that 
rule. 

All knowledge comes in waves. The knowledge 
of the existence of germs was given to us only fifty 
years ago — by Pasteur. 

Previous to that time the world knew frightful 
epidemics of disease — unchecked through their ig- 
norance of the cause. 

Fifty years from now our children will have 
taken steps to prevent the food manufacturers from 
juggling with our food. And they will know why. 

In order that you may see it clearly now, concen- 
trate your mind on the following sequence: 

Germs feed on dead tissue. 

Their purpose on the earth is to decompose dead 
bodies. 

Live, healthy tissue resists germs. 



The Necessity for the Change 21 

In the process of living there is a constant tearing 
down and building up of the tissues in our bodies. 

Every thought you think destroys a brain cell. 
Nature repairs this waste during sleep. 

Same with breathing. Same with every move- 
ment of your body. 

Along come your blood corpuscles like an army 
of miniature soldiers to carry off the waste and 
rebuild new tissue. 

Constantly — constantly the little army works. 
The process of living. 

But:— 

Suppose the little army has not the proper tools? 

Suppose it has not enough calcium, enough phos- 
phorus, enough manganese, enough iron*? 

For all these food minerals work together in 
beautiful harmony. The iron in the blood unites 
with the oxygen as it enters the lungs and carries it 
to the body cells where the waste tissue is burned 
by the oxygen and carried off through the lungs 
with the aid of other minerals during the process. 
The blood meanwhile busily rebuilding. 

Suppose then our little army is not properly 
equipped ? 

Then it cannot repair the waste. The dead tissue 
remains. 

Suppose this condition continues? 

More waste — more dead tissue. 

Then along comes an epidemic of pneumonia. 
And you cannot resist. 



22 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

And why can you not resist it? 

Because the germs entering your body found dead 
cell tissue upon which to feed and multiply. 

The dead cells in a living body are just the same 
food for germs as the dead cells in a dead body. 

It is not the germs which you need to fear: it is 
the dissolute condition of your own bodily tissue 
which invites the germs to enter and feed. 

Keep your tissues in a state of health. Right 
food will do it. 

Again : 

Germs feed on dead tissue. Live, healthy tissue 
can laugh at germs. 

No need to fear an attack of disease when your 
tissues are in a state of health. 

The tissues are kept in a state of health only by 
pure and perfect blood. The blood must have its 
sixteen elements. 

What is it that causes anemia? 

A lack of iron and other mineral in the blood. 

Why so much thin sick hair and baldness? 

A lack of silicon and its accompanying minerals. 

The squirrels and other forest animals have no 
difficulty retaining perfect hair, nails and teeth 
through the natural span of their lives. Why? 

They eat the food which Mother Nature pro- 
vides. No part of its building material is removed 
to make it more "digestible" or more "palatable" or 
more pleasing to the eye. 

What is it that causes tooth decay? 



The Necessity for the Change 23 

A lack of calcium in the blood. 

Why is it that the young mother almost always 
has serious trouble with her teeth? 

Because she did not have enough calcium in her 
blood. The baby had to have the calcium for the 
formation of his little bones. He drained the cal- 
cium from her teeth. He also robbed other stores, 
the result of which she cannot see so readily. This 
is why young mothers so often succumb to tubercu- 
losis. 

Their Resistance is lowered. 

GOOD RESISTANCE MEANS HEALTHY TISSUES 

Healthy tissues are the result of pure and perfect 
blood. 

Perfect blood is made and kept perfect by food 
and food alone. From no other source can we get 
the sixteen elements. 

This is why we must conserve all the food value 
in all of our food. The little army must have its 
tools. 

Oh, the wonder of a drop of blood! (See p. 74, 
"Science of Eating.") 

CONDENSATION 

And now again, before starting our routine we can 
sum up the knowledge which is to be our foundation 
in a sentence, viz.: 

(a) We must have our food properly balanced 
as to bases and acids. 



24 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

(£) We must conserve all the minerals in all 
of our food, because — 

(c) Our blood must be supplied with the proper 
materials to keep our tissues in a state of health. 

Food is the Only Way. 

Fix that three-part sentence permanently in your 
mind. It is the gospel of the new routine. 



Ill 

FOOD CLASSIFICATIONS 

We are laying special stress on the mineral ele- 
ment and Vitamines because these are the elements 
which have been overlooked and the absence of these 
elements in our foods has been the cause of much 
illness. But in order to avoid confusion it is really- 
necessary that you should have a clear and con- 
densed knowledge of all classes of food, food divi- 
sions and food values. 

Food taken into the body serves two purposes: 

1st. It repairs waste and builds tissue. 
2nd. It supplies heat and energy. 

The mineral element supplies material for bones 
and teeth and without it the blood and digestive 
organs cannot properly function. We may therefore 
consider the minerals as the tools which the blood 
must have in order to properly handle the other 
tissue-building, heat-producing foods. 

Most of you are familiar with the old academic 
food division, viz., Proteins, Carbohydrates and 
Fats. A few there may be who are not. Don't be 
disturbed by the high sounding names. They ar€ in 
reality very simple. 

25 



26 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

protein is the element found in meats, etc. 
carbohydrate is the element in starches and 
sugars. 

Protein is a tissue-building food. 
Carbohydrates and fats are chiefly heat and 
energy foods. 

Proteins are of two kinds — Vegetable and Animal. 

Animal Proteins are found in meat, fish, eggs, 
milk and cheese. 

Vegetable Proteins are found in nuts, whole 
grains (wheat, corn, rye, oats, etc.), and in beans, 
peas, lentils, etc. 

Opinions differ as to whether you should eat ani- 
mal protein in the form of meat at all, but all scien- 
tists agree that at least one-half of your proteins 
should be of vegetable origin. Also it has been 
demonstrated that about three ounces of protein is 
all one person in normal health can take care of in 
a day. Any more than that overloads the kidneys. 
This means about one and one-half ounces animal 
proteins, which equals about six ounces of lean 
meat or fish. (The fat in the meat is estimated as 
fat.) 

A great majority of you have been overeating on 
protein foods. The kidneys cannot take care of it. 
The overload is a slow poison. Cut down on the 
protein. 

Carbohydrates being starches and sugars, your 



Food Classifications 27 

own intelligence will guide you in locating them. 
Starches are most abundant in potatoes, bread, 
cereals, beans, peas, etc. The tubers — turnips, car- 
rots, parsnips, etc. — contain very little. All starches 
are turned into sugar during the process of digestion. 
All dietitians use the academic division and agree 
that a balanced diet should consist of 

1st. Protein 10 to 15% 

2nd. Fats 25 to 30% 

3rd. Carbohydrates 60 to 65% 

4th. Mineral Salts 

Sometimes this fourth division is mentioned, 
sometimes not, but not much stress has ever been 
laid on it until very recently. 

This 4th division is the most important of 
all; without it the body cannot properly 

MAKE USE OF THE OTHER FOOD ELEMENTS. 

In other words, the mineral element is necessary 
for proper functioning. Food must be digested and 
burned. Combustion cannot take place without the 
proper balance of mineral in the blood. 

Furthermore a diet of Proteins, Carbohydrates 
and Fats is purely acid-forming. The mineral ele- 
ment must be present in sufficient quantities to 
sweeten the blood and make it alkaline. 

The Vitamines are with the minerals — insepar- 
able. The sailors on board the Kronprinz Wilhelm 
were fed on the perfectly balanced diet according to 
this old academic division, and we know what hap- 



28 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

pened to them. They had no mineral balance and 
they suffered the consequences. 1 

Just remember that it is almost impossible to pre- 
pare an ordinary old-fashioned meal without its 
Proteins, Carbohydrates and Fats (meat, potatoes, 
bread and butter) while in millions of American 
homes today the mineral element is almost totally 
absent. 

The menus given in the following pages have a 
fair balance of all the food divisions. 

One thing more — The Proteins found in the glu- 
ten of wheat are feeble, but the Proteins found in the 
germs are rich and health-giving. This precious 
germ is removed in the milling of white flour. 
Don't forget that. Not only the minerals but the 
Proteins are lost. 

1 See page 178 for the dramatic story of the German raider— 
Kronprinz Wilhelm — and what happened to her crew. 



IV 

CALORIES VS. VITAMINES 

Someone has asked — "What about calories, 
should we know about them as well as Vitamines?" 
I believe that you will very soon see why every 
housewife should know what foods contain the 
Vitamines ; but that the everyday needs of the every- 
day family do not require a knowledge of calories. 
In the first place : 

WHAT IS A CALORIE? 

[First definition] — It is the amount of heat re- 
quired to raise the tempera- 
ture of one pound of water 
four degrees Fahrenheit. 

Food in the body is burned (oxidized) and pro- 
duces heat and energy, hence when used in connec- 
tion with food : 

[Second definition] — A calorie represents the 
amount of food required 
to produce this same 
amount of heat in the 
body. 

For example: 

A medium-sized slice of bread equals 100 calories. 

29 



30 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

This means that a medium slice of bread will 
produce in the body 100 of these heat units. 

In other words, a calorie is not a food element. 
It is a measuring unit. 

The calories are not in the bread nor any part of 
the bread. They simply represent the amount of 
heat and energy produced by the bread. 

A calorie, then, is a measuring unit the same as a 
quart or pound — representing quantity of heat. 

It takes very much more of one kind of food than 
it does of another to produce this unit of heat in the 
body. The calorie is chosen as the uniform way of 
expressing it. The caloric value of a pound and a 
half of lettuce is the same as that of a slice of bread. 

The highest caloried foods are the ones in the 
academic division already given, viz., Proteins, Car- 
bohydrates and Fats. 

The ones with the low caloric values are the min- 
eral salts and vitamines. 

You see the minerals and vitamines do not pro- 
duce heat, and a calorie is a measure of heat, but — 

Without the mineral element in the food the 
blood becomes impoverished, the tissue waste is not 
repaired and the food is not properly burned. 

Thus it is clear that all of these high caloried 
foods will not build the body unless accompanied 
by Nature's own mysterious safeguards — minerals 
and vitamines — which have practically no caloric 
value. 

Now: — 



Calories Vs. Vitamines 31 



WHAT ARE VITAMINES i 

Vitamines are essential life-giving elements of 
food stored by nature in the juices of fruits, in the 
stalks and leaves of green vegetables, in milk and in 
butter fats and in the outer covering (bran) and 
germs of the whole grain. 

Here is how vitamines were discovered — very 
recently. 

As super-civilization advanced man began jug- 
gling with the foods which God had placed upon the 
earth in their perfect state. This juggling was done 
to make them more pleasing to the eye, or more easily 
cooked. (The juggler becoming rich therefrom.) 
All went well until certain strange diseases began 
to break out among groups of men who were caught 
under circumstances where their chief food was this 
denatured food. The first of these was the Japanese 
army. The disease baffled science. After thou- 
sands of the Japs had died the disease was traced to 
the absence of certain vital elements in the beautiful 
white rice. An extract made from the outer covering, 
(the polishings) which had been removed were fed 
to the men and they promptly recovered. 

With this incident as a basic fact scientists im« 
mediately began exhaustive research and experi- 
ments on animals. 

These efforts proved that in the polishing of the 
rice not only the minerals but two other vital ele- 



32 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

ments hitherto unknown to Science had been re- 
moved. 

Further research proved that these same elements 
■existed in, and were removed by the milling of 
wheat, corn, rye, etc., and still further research lo- 
cated the same elements in other essential articles of 
food. 

Animals developed disease when these elements 
were withheld from their food and recovered when 
given them. The sick were made well, or the well 
were made sick at will — by juggling with these ele- 
ments. 

The scientists who first gave these discoveries to 
the world were Funk and McCollum. 

Although these substances defied chemical analy- 
sis Funk succeeded in isolating them — extremely 
minute crystals. 

The name "Vitamines" was given them and later 
they were further specified as "Fat Soluble A" and 
"Water Soluble B." A third "Water Soluble C" 
being added still later. 

Fat Soluble A is found in milk, butter, cheese, 
the yolks of eggs and the germs of whole grains, 
Water Soluble B in skim milk, in whole grains, in 
the leaves and stalks of green vegetables, in the 
juices of fruits. "C" thus far has been located 
chiefly in fruit juices. 

Without these elements in the food, health can- 
not be maintained. 

The eye disease which developed among the 



Calories Vs. Vitamines 33 

children of Europe during the recent war was proven 
to be the result of a milkless and butterless diet — 
the absence of Fat Soluble A. 

Poor' Little Kiddies! 

Henry Ford says that some day there will be arti- 
ficial milk. Mr. Ford may possess the ability to 
have created the Ford and other useful modern con- 
trivances; but God alone through the mysterious 
forces of nature has and always will create the vita- 
mines. 

Nature accepts no substitutes. 

WHEREFORE THE CALORIE 

Now, referring again to the definitions of a 
Calorie, and of Vitamines, which knowledge does 
your judgment tell you is the more important in 
preparing your menus'? 

Some of the points which destroy faith in the 
value of caloric knowledge are these : 

1st. The caloric value of a cupful of white 
(polished) rice and a cupful of natural brown rice 
is exactly the same, despite the Japanese incident. 

2nd. The caloric value of a piece of white bread 
is exactly the same as that of the same sized piece of 
whole wheat bread, and yet : 

Animals fed on white flour products alone will 
die quicker than if they were not fed at all, while 
animals fed on whole wheat exclusively will thrive 
indefinitely. 

The Kronprinz Wilhelm sailors had plenty of 



34 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

-■ 

white bread — and they were all sick. On the Don- 
ald McMillan expedition the food supply depleted 
and for nearly a year the crew lived chiefly on 
whole wheat biscuits — and they returned in perfect 
health. 

Verily — "Wherefore the calorie?" 

Of what use is it to you, as a housewife, to know 
that a certain portion of food will produce a certain 
amount of heat in the body, if that same food will 
not sustain life? 

These are only two of the points which destroy 
faith in caloric values. 

[The caloric value of a fried egg is greater than 
of a poached one. Fat counts. ] 

The calorie is without doubt very scientific and 
very helpful to the dietitian in proportioning energy 
foods, but — 

Since the quality of your blood depends abso- 
lutely upon the quality of the food which enters the 
digestive organs, don't you think it behooves you to 
center your attention upon said quality? 

You see the emphasis was laid on the importance 
of calories previous to the time that science discov- 
ered and recognized the importance of minerals and 
vitamines. 

You could eat the prescribed number of calories 
per day and in a short time develop anemia. 

Anemia is result of the absence of iron and other 
mineral in the blood. 



Calories Vs. Vitamines 35 

You could eat the prescribed number of calories 
per day and develop a case of acidosis, etc. 

Acidosis is the absence of the mineral balance to 
sweeten the blood. 

The calorie will measure some of your necessary 
foods but not all of them ; hence the best thing to do 
is to remember that your daily food supply should 
contain the four food divisions in approximately 
their right proportions, and that these proportions 
can be reached without a knowledge of calories. 

Habit alone will direct you to the energy foods, 
and the addition of a generous supply of the min- 
eral and vitamine foods will help to curb the ten- 
dency to overeat of the Proteins and Starches. 

Plan vitamine Menus. 



V 

THE CORNER STONES AGAIN 

We have said that the corner stones of the new 
routine were to be — 

1st. Conserve the minerals. 

2nd. Balance the acids. 

And with all this discussion of other food divi- 
sions we must not lose sight of these corner stones. 
The plan of basing our dietary on them does not con- 
flict with other food divisions, neither does it com- 
plicate. It really simplifies — as we shall see. 

So much has recently been written on the subject 
of food — so much which is arbitrary and analytical 
— that it is no wonder we feel at sea when we have 
finished reading. 

So much of this writing is semi-scientific and 
mysterious — chiefly mysterious. 

We are told learnedly of vitamines for instance 

and we feel vaguely that we are trying to grasp at 

something elusive, something almost ethereal — like 

the fragrance of a flower; and again will come an 

article on "Fat Soluble A and Water Soluble B" 

so shrouded in mystery that our minds receive but a 

hazy impression. 

One thing is certain. When you have finished 
36 



The Corner Stones Again 37 

reading Mr. McCann's "Science of Eating" no such 
impression remains. Clear as the crystal depths of 
one of Nature's own springs stands out the ringing 
Slogan : 

Eat everything which God has put on the 

earth for food but eat it as he put it there. 

Refuse to have it juggled. 

Just that. 

A glance at the list of foods in the next chapter 
will show you that all the purely acid-forming foods 
are "juggled" foods. Some portion of the natural 
article has been removed either in the preparation 
or the cooking; while all the "balanced" foods are 
complete — as found in nature. 

In other words (referring to our first thought in 
Chap. I) the sixteen elements repeat themselves all 
through nature, so that whether we choose our food 
from vegetable roots, or stalks, or leaves, or seeds; 
or from animal products — as eggs or milk — the min- 
eral element is always present. 

It is only when a portion is chosen from the whole 
that the mineral element may be lost. This is some- 
times unavoidable — as in the case of fish or meat, 
and it is then that we need to conserve the minerals 
in our other foods to balance the acids thus formed. 
(See "Meat," Chap. VI.) 

Don't worry about your proteins. The chances 
are you have had a vast oversupply in the form of 
meat. All the protein which your body needs will 



38 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

be found in whole wheat bread and milk; your car- 
bohydrates in a judicious mixture of vegetables; 
your fats in cream and butter and nuts, etc. 

(No we are not eliminating meat — we are advis- 
ing less of it.) 

In other words the road to the new routine is a 
very simple one. You will not need an arithmetic. 
You will not need to learn technical terms. 

Food values — all of them — are blended and inter- 
mingled in any one perfect article of food (such as a 
grain of wheat) just as the separate colors of the 
rainbow are blended in one single ray of light. 

All you have to do is to get these foods in their 
natural state, unadulterated by a food manufacturer, 
and prepaid them without wasting any life-giving 
element. 



VI 
GETTING YOUR MIND READY 

Once more before taking up the following sug- 
gestions and recipes it seems opportune to say that 
they were compiled for those who, having read Mr. 
McCann's book, desired to change their routine and 
dietary in accordance with his findings. They are 
designed especially for those who are in earnest in 
their desire to make the change complete and who 
find it somewhat difficult and confusing to get away 
from the old established customs. 

The following pages will serve as a handbook to 
the busy housewife who desires that the food pre- 
pared in her kitchen shall contain the blood-making, 
tissue-building elements which shall insure health 
to her children and all of her household at the same 
time that it satisfies their appetites and pleases their 
palates. 

Once established the new routine will run as 
smoothly as the old and there will be no sudden at- 
tacks of tonsilitis, high temperature, etc., with the 
hurried call for the doctor and the unlimited worry. 

This has been proven a hundred times. 

The first thing then is to fix clearly in our minds 
where to find the minerals and vitamines, also which 
are acid-forming and which base-forming foods. 

39 



40 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Hence let us make a list of them. It won't be 
long until we have them tabulated in our brains 
clearly and permanently. 

Acid- forming Foods 
White bread. 
Boiled potatoes. 
Polished rice. 
Cornstarch. 
Corn flakes. 
Corn meal (denatured) 
Cream of wheat. 
Pearled barley. 
Whites of eggs. 
Cheese. 
Lard. 

Fat of any kind. 
Meat (especially salt meat). 
Fish. 
All white flour products — as 

Crackers 

Biscuits 

Pastry, etc. 
Denatured rye flour. 
Denatured buckwheat flour. 
All refined cereals. 
All refined sugars. 
Macaroni. 
Spaghetti. 
Tapioca. 

The following foods are naturally balanced as 
to bases and acids. The ones marked * contain a 
predominance of alkali- (base) forming elements 



Getting Your Mind Ready 41 

and are therefore ideal to use as "balancers" at a 
meal where meat or other acid-forming food is 
served. 

Balanced Foods 

Whole wheat bread. 

Potatoes — baked or steamed in skins. 

Natural brown rice. 

Corn meal — ground from the whole grain. v 

Unpearled barley. 

All natural cereals — i. e., the entire grains. 

Whole wheat flour. 

Rye flour made from whole grain. 

Buckwheat flour made from whole grain. 

Eggs. 

Milk. 

* All fresh vegetables. 

* All greens. 

* All fresh fruits. 

The entire egg is "balanced" — the yolk is the 
base former; the white, the acid former. 

Milk contains a predominance of alkaline ele- 
ments and all the vitamines. 

And don't forget: 

When foods are balanced as to acids and bases, 
they surely contain the minerals (because the bases 
are always mineral) and that where the minerals 
predominate we also find one or all of the vita- 
mines. 

So it is not three roads. It is one — and a straight 
one. 



42 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

"Eat everything which God has put on the earth 
for food — but eat it as He put it there. Refuse to 
have it juggled." 

It will be noticed that all things as found in 
nature are "balanced." The fruits, the grains, the 
vegetables, and also the animals. 

Your body is balanced — but : — 

The minerals (bases) are found in the bones and 
blood. This is why — 

MEAT 

Is an acid-forming food. The wild animal of the 
forest who feeds on other animals gets his "bal- 
anced" food. He eats the bones and blood. We do 
not. 

This does not mean that you must eliminate meat 
from your dietary. But it does mean that at a meat 
meal you must have sufficient vegetables, salads and 
fruits to give the mineral (base) balance to the acid 
of the meat. And it does mean that you must not 
go back to the old routine of meat, boiled (or 
mashed) potato and white bread, all three of 
which are acid- forming. It would be impossible at a 
single meal to eat sufficient other vegetables to offset 
the acids of the above combination. 

Now for the New Routine. 

To establish it you will have to do two things: 
1st — Use a little ingenuity in marketing and 2nd — 
make some changes in your kitchen utensils and 
methods of cooking. 



VII 
GETTING YOUR KITCHEN READY 

The first thing that we must do, of course, to 
get started on "eating for health" is to lay in a 
supply of 100 per cent foods. 

The whole grains being the most important we 
will secure those first. Since whole wheat con- 
tains every element which the body needs and 
white flour contains none of them, our children are 
going to have whole wheat bread and whole grains 
for breakfast foods. But the whole grains are not 
easy to find. Your own locality will present its own 
problems — perhaps my experience in my locality 
may contain some suggestions. Here's what I did : — 

I personally visited a miller and got twenty-five 
pounds of clean whole wheat grain which I divided 
among three of my friends. I also got ten pounds of 
whole corn grain, which I planned to grind into corn 
meal. 

Then I talked with a leading grocer about brown 
rice. He said there was no sale for it. I told him I 
would guarantee the sale if he would get the rice. 
He made me promise to take one-half a case (30 
pounds). That was easy — I knew I could divide it 
with others who wanted some. 

Next I got a box of Scotch oatmeal, but later 

43 



44 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

learned that the steel cut is just as good — only it 
takes a little longer to cook. (The Scotch, however, 
coming in sealed cans, will keep better in the summer 
time.) 

That gave me my supply of breakfast grains, 
but it didn't completely answer the question about 
meals and flours. 

The so-called "Whole wheat flour" which is on 
the market is only about 80 per cent whole wheat. 
This is a vast improvement, but I wanted 100 per 
cent — all of the grain. Although I inquired at all 
the leading retail and wholesale grocers I did not 
succeed in finding any. I also wanted some real corn 
meal and some entire buckwheat flour which I knew 
were not to be found. (The rye I was not so par- 
ticular about.) 

It became evident that if I wanted these 100 per 
cent meals I would have to buy the whole grains 
and grind them. "Some nuisance" — I thought — 
"but the kiddies are worth it." 

Accordingly I visited a hardware merchant and 
learned that an adequate grinder could be bought 
for about ten ($10.00) dollars. I left an order for 
one but before it had arrived a friend of mine who 
has plenty of money bought quite an elaborate affair 
with an electric motor attachment. I went to her 
home and ground three (10 pound) lots. 

Why couldn't an arrangement somewhat like this 
be worked out between you and your friends? One 
good grinder among a party of friends — or in a 



Getting Your Kitchen Ready 45 

neighborhood and a high school boy for distributor. 

Or even one of the small grinders shared by three 

or four whose funds are not over-plentiful. (Inquire 

about the Straub Milling Machine. I am told it is 

a very good one.) 

Later I was still more fortunate. Glancing 

through the liner ads of the local newspaper I ran 

across the following advertisement: 

"Have you ever eaten genuine Southern corn-grits? I 
make these and sweet Southern corn meal made from the 
whole corn. Will deliver to you. 

"Price Milling Co., 
"418 Anthon Street." 

It was a remote district of the city, but I located 
it and found there a rather superior young negro 
who told me he had started this business because he 
was starving for some of the sweet white corn prod- 
ucts he had eaten in the South. He had built up 
quite a nice little business (chiefly among his own 
people), and was making a good living. He was 
scrupulously clean. He was making the most won- 
derful corn meal I ever tasted (from the whole 
grain) ; and also whole wheat meal (100 per cent). 
Later this mill was taken over by a very energetic 
young man who is building up a remarkably good 
business. He delivers in any locality once a week 
and our troubles about 100 per cent flour are over. 
This is in Detroit. The incident is given as a sug- 
gestion. Couldn't some enterprising youth be found 
in any community to start such a center and work 
up a fair trade among those who knowl 



46 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Anyhow, it can be worked out. You will find the 
best way for your particular case. If you can't get 
a center started, there is always the small grinder 
which is very practical and worth the money ex- 
pended. (You might almost as well eat sawdust as 
the corn meal you have been eating.) Moreover, 
once you have tasted the wonderful flavor of the 
genuine article you would never be willing to go 
back to the other even if food value were not the 
chief consideration. And once the routine is estab- 
lished the rest will be easy enough. (The Straub 
is a small grinder.) 

COOKING UTENSILS 

After you have arranged about your flour and 
meal, the next thing to think about is the proper 
cooking utensils for your vegetables. Since the 
juices of vegetables contain the mineral salts they 
must not be wasted. Casserole cooking is the ideal 
way, hence you should have at least one casserole — 
two is better — and a steamer which will cook at least 
two vegetables at the same time. These steamers 
are now on the market arranged in tiers, one on top 
of the other — from two to six compartments. They 
are recommended as gas savers. There are several 
types which a first class hardware merchant will 
show you. One good one has a chimney running 
through each steamer through which the steam es- 
capes into and from each compartment. You will 



Getting Your Kitchen Ready 47 

find the double or treble steamer ideal for cooking 
string beans, young carrots, etc. If your dealer 
hasn't one in stock he has them on catalogue. Make 
him order one for you. If, however, you don't get 
one immediately use your old-fashioned steamer. 
You can contrive to divide it if you wish to cook 
two vegetables. 

Much has been said recently in favor of the 
"Pressure Cooker" which is also steam confined until 
it reaches a pressure of twenty pounds. It will cook 
the toughest chicken in thirty-five minutes. If all 
that is claimed for it is true, it would be ideal. 

An article on the Pressure Cooker will be found 
in The Ladies Home Journal for February, 1921. 

There is also on the market now a very heavy 
cast aluminum ware called Stroluminum. In these 
utensils vegetables can be cooked with a few table- 
spoonfuls of water (the same as casserole cooking) 
and potatoes can be cooked in their skins— over 
the fire — with no water at all. 

If you can afford to add a fireless cooker to the 
list, do so. 

An ice cream freezer is also an excellent posses- 
sion. (Real ice cream and fresh fruit ices in the 
summer.) 

bakers' bread 

To those of you who must buy your bread, the 
bread will be the hardest problem. The so-called 
"whole wheat bread" made by the average baker is 
not worthy of the name. The soft, puffy stuff is 



48 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

next to worthless. The dark breads masquerading 
under various names (Health Bread, etc.) are in the 
same class. None of them are whole wheat, and 
because of their tasteless, unappetizing qualities 
they serve only to disgust the consumer. Eating of 
these miserable substitutes he thinks he doesn't like 
whole wheat bread — and he has never tasted it. 

I believe that some few bakers have made an 
honest effort to make genuine whole wheat bread, 
but on the whole they have succeeded poorly. The 
methods used to handle white flour will not work 
out with whole wheat — hence all bakers "set the 
sponge" with white flour. To this is added some 
80 per cent flour — and there you are. I even know 
of one baker who grinds his own flour, yet he 
mixes white flour with his bread. 

In almost every city in the United States there 
is a McFadden's Physical Culture Restaurant. 
Most of these make a genuine whole wheat bread 
and most of them will sell it for outside consump- 
tion. Some of these even have added a generous 
mixture of white flour — but the bread is a vast im- 
provement and is worth going after. 

Everyone who has a home can supplement the 
bakers' bread with frequent home made muffins and 
biscuits. The flour should be 100 per cent. If you 
use the 80 per cent which is on the market, add to 
it a little bran. 

But if you are in earnest at all in your desire 
to make your food lay the foundation of health 



Getting Your Kitchen Ready 49 

for you and your family, Persist until you make or 
obtain genuine whole wheat bread. 

BUYING NATURAL BROWN RICE 

In doing your marketing don't mistake the 
un-coated rice for natural brown rice. 

You see the bran of the rice grain cannot be re- 
moved so easily as that of the wheat grain. Its bran 
clings very tight. To remove it the rice is put 
through a machinery process whereby the kernels 
rub against each other. This friction removes the 
bran in tiny particles — hence the term "polishings" 
and "polished rice." 

In addition to this — to secure a more beautiful 
whiteness — most of the food manufacturers have 
been putting the rice through a second process — 
i.e.: coating it with talcum powder. This talcum 
coated rice can be easily detected in washing — the 
talcum turns the water milky. 

Vncoated rice is merely polished rice which has 
not been coated with talcum. So much has been said 
about the debasing of rice that many high-class 
grocers have uncoated rice on exhibition. It is some- 
what yellow in appearance — but is nevertheless pol- 
ished rice. 

Natural brown rice is #/z-polished rice containing 
both the bran and the germ. Some of the leading 
rice dealers are now handling it done up in pound 
cartons, and any first class grocer can get it for you. 
It is a peculiar greenish buff color about as dark as 
oatmeal — and is labeled "Natural Brown Rice." 



VIII 
REFLECTIONS ON THE SITUATION 

When you have finished marketing — sit down in 
the quiet of your home and think about it. 

Why was it necessary for me to take this round- 
about course in order to obtain cereals in their 
natural state? 

Why was it impossible for me to buy a single 
pound of 100 per cent whole wheat flour or entire 
corn meal ? 

Why must I buy a grinder or find some one who 
will improvise a milling machine and start a local 
center to supply 100 per cent flour to my neighbor- 
hood? 

Hundreds of pounds of bolted, denatured flour 
are being manufactured and sold every day. Why 
are not the millers compelled to make a 100 per 
cent flour? Why do not the grocers demand it? 

And the answer to the last will stare you in the 
face. The grocers demand what the people demand. 
And the people do not know. 

Didn't the grocer tell you there was no sale for 
brown rice? 

"But it seems to me," your suggestive mind will 

say, "the grocers could help to educate the people. 

Only yesterday I saw placards and slips explaining 

50 



Reflections on the Situation 51 

the use of a salad oil and a demonstration of a new 
breakfast food." 

"Oh, yes" — you will hear from your reasoning 
mind — "but those demonstrations were paid for by 
the manufacturers. That's advertising. The grocer 
is concerned with the bulk of his business. All ad- 
vertised packages sell." 

"Well, then" — you will go on with your reason- 
ing — "how will the people ever know? They are 
constantly being miseducated through just such ad- 
vertising. Why doesn't the government compel the 
manufacture of 100 per cent meals'? The govern- 
ment does know." 

And there your mind will come to a standstill. 

And while your mind is racing like a motor, eager 
to go on, there will rise before its vision a vista of 
innumerable possibilities. 

The word "Government" will call up very sud- 
denly a consciousness of power. Your power — a 
power you had thought very little about until now. 

Politics hadn't interested you particularly. You 
were satisfied to legislate your home. 

But when politics invade your home rule — that's 
different. 

When, in order to obtain the foodstuffs which you 
have learned are absolutely essential to maintain 
the health of your family, you must go out and 
combat single-handed the effects of a National folly 
you know that the time for action has come. 

Just where the road lies that leads to legislation 



52 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

you do not yet know — but you will learn. That is 
your decision. 

And as your mind goes on with its thinking you 
agree with Mr. McCann. 

The schools. That is the first step. The children 
must be taught. They will carry the education to 
their homes. As the people learn, the demand for 
100 per cent food will come. 

But what are the roads — what are the gateways 
that lead to school curricula 1 ? 

Superintendents of Schools, boards of education, 
city councils, state legislatures. 

If the Superintendents of Schools can be brought 
face to face with the facts as revealed through Mr. 
McCann' s fund of knowledge, if they can be made 
to feel the importance of these facts with fathers' 
hearts; — theirs is the power to recommend the adop- 
tion of a nutrition course in the school curriculum. 

The power to act on such recommendation lies 
with the boards and legislatures. If the voice of the 
superintendent is not heard, the voice of the women's 
vote will be. 

"Isn't it appalling*?" you will think. 'These 100 
per cent foodstuffs are beyond the reach of the plain 
people even if they should want them. How could 
the wife of a laborer with a large family and all 
her household cares go out and do what I have done 
today 1 ? It would be impossible. She is absolutely 
dependent on the corner grocer." 

And the more you think, the more clearly will 



Reflections on the Situation 53 

become fixed in your mind — yes, the school is the 
place for the education to begin. And when once 
they know the voice of the Mothers will be heard in 
the land. 



IX 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD— THE STAFF OF 

LIFE 

Most important of all the foods which go on 
your table is your bread. Three times every day it 
forms a part of your menu. Each and every mem- 
ber of your family consumes more of it than of any 
other single article of food. And from no other 
single article of food could they derive more nour- 
ishment, more of the blood-making, tissue-building 
elements, provided that this bread were made from 
whole wheat flower. Honest flour made from the 
whole grain with nothing added and nothing taken 
away. And such bread cannot be bought in the 
bakers' shops. 

The problem of making your own bread is not a 
pleasant one to consider, and yet since we now 
know that it means health to our children, let us 
face the problem directly. To keep them sturdy 
they must have whole wheat. Since we cannot buy 
it what are we to do? If it came to a choice be- 
tween nursing the children through an illness or 
managing the bread problem we would not hesitate. 
Yet that is precisely what it amounts to. 

The occasional whole wheat muffins or gems will 

54 



Whole Wheat Bread— The Staff of Life 55 

not do. It is the everyday bread which counts ; the 
steady continuous building, the building which 
spells resistance to disease. 

Mothers: — If the children have plenty of whole 
wheat bread and milk and nothing else you need not 
worry. 

And the reason is this: — Wheat contains every 
element which the body needs in the right pro- 
portions. Undoubtedly these elements are de- 
signed and proportioned by an All Wise Providence. 

The amazing fact is that nature picks with such a 
nicety that if any of the mineral elements are re- 
moved she rejects the others in like proportion. 

For example: — If only one-half the required 
amount of phosphorus is left in the flour she can 
use only one-half the iron, manganese, etc. If only 
one-tenth of any one mineral is left she can use only 
one-tenth of all the others. 

This same law governs plants as well as animals. 
No matter how rich a soil may be in iron or calcium, 
etc., if it is poor in phosphorus or potassium the 
plant selects and uses the former in proportion with 
the available quantities of the latter and thrives 
Well or ill, accordingly. 

None of us possesses such knowledge of the mys- 
terious workings of nature as to be able with all 
our intelligence to select and proportion our foods 
as nature herself proportions them. (Who knows 
where to get the exact mineral balance to make up 
the deficiency in white flour *?) 



56 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Wheat is nature's own formula — a perfect food. 
Bread made from all wheat is verily "The Staff of 
Life." 

Shall we give our children a hollow porous staff 
or a solid sturdy one"? Shall we let them grow 
frail and susceptible, or shall we steadily and con- 
tinuously build up their resistance? 

A MOTHER WHO WON 

Apropos of this steady, continuous building let 
me tell you the story of one little woman who made 
the fight and won. 

Mrs. F. C. Wheeler came to New York City about 
seven years ago. She was then the mother of three 
little girls (aged 7, 4 and 2). The fact that she was 
educated to the finishing point did not deter her 
from doing most of her own work and reveling in 
the joy of it. The happiness of an all-abiding love 
and her three precious kiddies made the monotonous 
grind a song. Some day, of course, Mr. F. C. was 
going to have a million dollars — but meanwhile 
here was Today with all its unpurchasable joy- and 
busy-ness. 

Believing in the value of the home product Mrs. 
Wheeler had just succeeded in making white bread 
of the finest and most perfect quality when Mr. 
McCann arrived on the scene. 

What a lucky lady she was to have known him as 
a lifelong friend and thus to have derived the bene- 



Whole Wheat Bread— The Staff of Life 57 

fit not only of his fund of knowledge but of his very 
personal interest. 

But she didn't want to listen to his gospel. Her 
household was running smoothly, as a result of her 
intelligence. Why should she upset it all — change 
the whole system just to follow a fad"? She 
wouldn't, that was all — and she turned a deaf ear. 

But he forced her to. Her children were very 
frail in spite of her care. The frequency of colds 
and sore throats and sudden temperatures was a 
source of worry. 

During one of these illnesses Mr. McCann made a 
special trip to her home. He appealed to her in- 
telligence and presented his arguments. He 
preached the gospel of whole wheat and from the 
numerous incidents of his experience gave to her 
proof after proof that on this one perfect article of 
food alone her children could be made strong. He 
asked her to try it for one year. No longer if she 
were not then convinced. She promised. 

Her intelligence and her mother's heart decided 
that her children were entitled to sturdy bodies and 
that if any extra effort on her part could give them 
that boon, then sturdy bodies they would have. She 
would make whole wheat bread. 

Her promise was given — not only to Mr. McCann 
but to herself. And having been given it was kept 
— not half way, nor once in a while — but com- 
pletely and faithfully as all promises should be 
kept. The reward is hers. 



58 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

One hundred per cent whole wheat flour is ob- 
tainable in New York so Mrs. Wheeler did not have 
that stumbling block to overcome. With 100 per 
cent flour she made whole wheat bread. 

But not so easily as that sentence sounds. Oh, 
no! Her first batches were total failures. Five of 
them. The sixth they managed to consume — but it 
was not good. She tried mixing some white flour 
with the whole wheat (as almost everyone does) and 
in this way managed to make a very good bread. 
But it was not what she had set out to do. 

She had promised whole wheat. 

Accordingly she experimented and gradually 
worked out a recipe which is perfect. For six years 
she has made bread from this recipe. She never 
varies it and it never fails. But Mrs. Wheeler was 
not satisfied with bread alone. She made a clean 
sweep. White flour was practically banished from 
her household. Her muffins, waffles, cookies, even 
pie crust are made of whole wheat. The recipes for 
all are given here after having been tested by the 
writer and found to work equally well in strange 
hands as in Mrs. Wheeler's. 

Since this innovation of whole wheat four more 
little girls have come to the Wheeler household 
(there being a five-year-old pair of twins for good 
measure), and if you doubt at all the value of whole 
wheat as a safeguard against frailty I wish you could 
see those kiddies — seven in all ranging in age from 
fourteen to three. Not fat — oh no — just sturdy and 



Whole Wheat Bread— The Staff of Life 59 

colorful and pictures of riotous health. They al- 
most never see a doctor and dentist's bills are un- 
known, though previous to their whole wheat diet 
they all had crumbly teeth. 

Seven little girls and no cascara bottle in the 
house ! Seven little girls and never a case of tonsil- 
itis nor any other illness — save a slight cold — in 
seven years! And don't forget that the first three 
were frail and susceptible six years ago. 

Mrs. Wheeler told me of the very great differ- 
ence in her own physical condition at the time these 
last babies came, of the splendid condition of her 
own teeth and many other proofs which make her 
bless the day she learned the value of whole wheat. 

But we will all admit that much of the credit is 
due to Mrs. Wheeler's own courage. She persisted 
until she won, — and she made her change complete. 

As she won — so can you. 

From all sides we hear that excellent bread cannot 
be made from 1 oo per cent wheat flour. Good bread 
which tastes good. Mrs. Wheeler's bread proves 
that this is not true. It is the best bread I have ever 
eaten. 

Try it yourself. (See recipe, p. 88.) 

Try it — and work out the plan for your own 
household. If you have a maid can't you bribe her? 
Surely the promise of a definite sum in extra pay 
will sweeten the request for the extra work. If you 
are your own maid — let something else go and give 



60 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

the kiddies a chance at the genuine Staff of Life. 
Build up their resistance. Bread alone will do it. 

Perhaps you might find some capable woman who 
at a fair price would bake the bread for your neigh- 
borhood or your friends. By doing this you would 
be spreading the good work. 



PART II 
PREPARING THE FOOD: RECIPES 



X 

PREPARING THE FOOD 

It is assumed that your have now on your shelves 
a supply of: — 

1st. Breakfast grains. 

2nd. Whole wheat flour, and whole corn meal. 

3rd. If you have not a small milling machine, 
you have made definite plans about your future sup- 
ply of 100 per cent flours and meals. 

4th. You have casseroles and a steamer. (Pos- 
sibly even a fireless cooker.) 

5th. You have in your minds a knowledge of 
acid goods and how to balance them. (See p. 40.) 

If you haven't these, don't you think you had 
better get them*? You can't start without the 
proper food supply and the proper utensils. Above 
all, don't start in a haphazard way. Start right and 
the road will be easy. 



63 



64 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



BREAKFAST GRAINS 

The entire wheat contains every element which the body 
needs. One hundred per cent Food Value. 

The outer covering, including the bran and the brown 
layers next to the bran, contain the precious minerals and 
vitamines which are removed in milling white flour. Hence 
for: 

Breakfast Wheat No. i 

Get the entire wheat grain — unground. 

Cook in salted water for five or six hours in double 
boiler. 

In the morning heat the quantity desired for breakfast 
and serve with milk or thin cream. 

Breakfast Wheat No. 2 

Get what the millers call "cracked wheat." Any miller 
who will sell you the whole grain will also sell this. In it 
the wheat is broken and therefore cooks quicker. 

Some people have secured the same result by putting the 
whole grain through a nut grinder. 

Cook in a double boiler at least one hour. 

Serve with milk or thin cream. 

Corn Meal 

If you have succeeded in getting (or grinding) undena- 
tured corn meal, prepare as follows : — 

Sift the meal through the fingers slowly into the boiling 
water, stirring all the time to keep smooth. Cook for twenty 
minutes in a double boiler. 

Serve with thin cream. 



Preparing" the Food 65 



Natural Brown Rice 

The best way to cook rice is directly over fire in broad 
shallow tin (as a milk pan). 

To l cup of brown rice add 4^ cups of water and J4 
teaspoonful salt, bring to boiling point, turn down fire and 
allow to simmer exactly 35 minutes without stirring. 
Watch for the last 5 minutes and if necessary add 1 or 
2 tablespoonfuls of water. This is rarely necessary. 

Rice is made gummy and sticky by overcooking or 
stirring. If cooked and timed exactly as above each kernel 
should stand out separate and dry and thoroughly cooked. 

Stick a fork straight down into it here and there during 
the last minute or two. Watch the bubbles and be sure 
that all the moisture is absorbed. Unabsorbed moisture 
will also make it sticky. 

The above is the only successfur and satisfactory way 
of cooking brown rice when it is to be served as a vege- 
table — but if for your breakfast food you prefer to cook 
it in a double boiler, proportion as follows : — 

To 1 cup of brown rice add 2^/3 cups of water and t/z 
teaspoonful salt. Cook in double boiler at simmering 
point exactly 1 hour without stirring. When done re- 
move the cover at once. The steam will make it soggy. 

Almost every cook book will direct you to cook rice 
in a large quantity of water and then drain and dry. Never 
do this. The liquid in which the brown rice is cooked is 
a valuable essence. It should be properly proportioned 
so that it can be absorbed by the rice. 

If white (polished) rice is cooked directly over fire, it 
it should have four parts water to one part rice and cook 
for 20 minutes only. But we are not concerned here with 
the successful cooking of polished rice. 



66 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



Oatmeal 

By oatmeal we do not mean rolled oats. We mean the 
old-fashioned coarse, steel-cut oatmeal. 

This should be cooked at least two hours at night and 
warmed through in the morning. 

Cooking it thus at night it continues to steam for a long 
time after the fire has been turned out. 

Serve medium thick with thin cream. 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes (Mrs. Wheeler) 

iy 2 cups of (100 per cent) whole wheat flour. 
5 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

1 level teaspoonful of salt. 
2^2 cups of milk. 

2 eggs. 

l teaspoonful of molasses. 

1st, mix the flour, baking powder and salt. 

2nd, stir in the milk. 

3rd, stir in the molasses (the molasses is not absolutely 
necessary, but it makes the cakes brown more easily). 

4th, add the eggs, well beaten. 

5th, mix thoroughly and bake on a hot, well greased 
griddle. 

Whole Wheat and Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

(These cakes are delicious, but the corn meal must be 
100 per cent. You can't buy it at the grocers'. Grind it.) 

1 cup whole wheat flour. 
l cup (undenatured) corn meal. 
1 level teaspoonful baking powder. 
x / 2 level teaspoonful salt. 



Preparing the Food 67 

2 cups sour milk. 

Yz level teaspoonful baking soda. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

The buckwheat flour which is on the market is dena- 
tured, also. 

If you can succeed in getting some of the whole grain and 
grind it yourself, what could be more delicious than a break- 
fast of buckwheat cakes? 

Rice or Oatmeal Cakes 

Griddle cakes can also be made from the leftovers of the 
rice or oatmeal porridge. 



68 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



MILK 

Few people understand the very great food value of milk. 
Most people give little thought to it. Like the whole 
grains it contains every element which the body needs — 
and furthermore it contains them in the most assimilable 
form. Therefore to the invalid or convalescent it is even 
more valuable than 'the whole grains. 

The sixteen elements necessary to life are all found in 
milk. The reason for this is obvious. Nature is an all- 
wise provider. The milk of the cow is the food for the 
calf. (The calf must grow and thrive, and build tissue 
and bone and muscle.) The food materials absorbed by 
the cow from the grasses and seeds are passed on to the milk 
to feed the calf. Science has proven that at least five times 
more of these essential materials are found in the milk 
than are found in the tissues of the cow. From this it 
must be clear to all that the food value of milk is five times 
greater than that of meat. 

The only food value of meat is its protein. The pro- 
teins of milk are more valuable because they are in more 
assimilable form. To the growing child milk is the great- 
est food in the world. Right into his blood go the food 
materials that make blood — for milk has in itself every con- 
stituent for blood making, except, perhaps, a sufficient 
amount of iron. This he can obtain from his whole grains 
and green leaves and raisins. 

And if the invalid or undernourished or convalescent 
could but understand the curative value of milk! Any 
other food requires a certain amount of energy to digest. 
Milk requires no effort of digestion. Almost immediately 
it enters your blood — as blood — being a blood maker. This 
is why the genuine milk cure has achieved such wonderful 



Preparing the Food 69 

results — even in cases which seemed incurable. Perfect 
blood will eliminate disease — and milk will make perfect 
blood. 

In hot weather try the combination of milk and fruit for 
breakfast or luncheon. (Do not add starch to this mix- 
ture.) If you are overweight, use skimmed milk. 

But, besides being the most beneficial food for man, milk 
is also the greatest germ carrier in the world. Every drop 
of it should be pasteurized before using — unless it is cer- 
tified. Certified milk is raw milk from cows which are in- 
spected regularly as to their health, their food and their 
general surroundings. 

Raw milk is better than pasteurized in cases where you 
can be absolutely sure of the health and cleanliness of the 
cows, and of the persons handling the milk. Even if you 
have your own cows their regular inspection by the Health 
Authorities is a very necessary measure; but where the 
milk is a mixture from several cows or herds, pasteuriza- 
tion is an absolute necessity. 

In some communities this is a law. If you live where 
this law does not exist you may pasteurize it yourself as 
follows : 

Get a thermometer. Put the milk in a double boiler and 
heat it to 165 degrees Turn out the fire and let stand in 
heat for 30 minutes. (The temperature will drop to about 
145 degrees.) Then place in the refrigerator, at once. 

Every member of the family should have milk in some 
form every day, and every growing child should drink at 
least a pint a day — a quart is better. 

Milk and Honey 

Have you ever combined milk and honey? It is great. 
To a small glass of heated (not hot) milk add a teaspoonful 
of strained honey. Here is a drink to give the children. 



70 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Even the ones who don't like milk will enjoy it. In hot 
weather heat the milk (to dissolve the honey) and then 
put in refrigerator to cool. 

Use it in time of colds or irritated throats. The writer 
knows of a case of pneumonia cured on this treatment alone, 
the patient taking about two quarts of milk a day in small 
doses (combined with the honey) and no other food or 
medicine, though under the watchful care of a noted 
physician. 

But don't wait to be ill to enjoy this beverage. It is 
restful and refreshing at any time. Far better than "a cup 
of tea." Treat your friends to it. 



Preparing the Food 71 



BRAN— Its Necessity in the Diet 

There is a horde of people who are working in offices, 
etc., and living in rooms to whom the obtaining of home- 
made whole wheat bread or even genuine whole wheat 
grains for breakfast food is an impossibility. I wonder 
if you realize what this means to you? 

It is an absolute fact that those who start on whole 
wheat grain food today will discard all pills or artificial 
laxatives of any kind within a month. The bran of the 
whole grains is nature's own laxative. 

White bread and all refined food packs in the intestines. 
Constipation is the inevitable result. Don't treat this mat- 
ter indifferently. The fact that it is a common ailment 
does not make it less serious. It is not only discomfort. 
It is disease. It is putrefaction within your body. Millions 
of bacteria excreting their poisons constantly for your body 
to absorb. And your body becomes saturated with these 
poisons. This is auto-intoxication (self-poisoning) which 
in time leads to the most serious and awful illnesses. 

If the danger of such illness does not frighten you — then 
think of constipation as plain filth. Have you ever seen 
a piece of meat in a state of putrefaction — alive with bac- 
teria? Do you like to think of that condition within your 
own body? You who are so dainty as to bathing and 
manicuring. 

Pills and other artificial laxatives do not relieve consti- 
pation ; they aggravate it. Take one cathartic and note the 
result the second day. Continue to take them and you will 
become helpless without them. (And there will be worse 
results.) 

Right food — Nature's formulas — contain the elements 
which will positively prevent constipation. If you are 



72 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

one of the horde mentioned above who can not get this 
food — then help yourself in the following way: — 

Bran is Nature's laxative. The whole grains contain it 
in the right proportion. Failing to get those buy a package 
of bran and take a tablespoonful every morning. Let it 
be part of the day's cleanliness. It will be easy to follow 
the plan contrived by a certain lady for her traveling hus- 
band. 

She bought a box. of very small envelopes. Into each 
envelope she put a tablespoonful of bran and sealed it. 
These she put in the box with her husband's handkerchiefs. 
Every morning one of these envelopes went into his pocket. 
He used it in the restaurant at breakfast. 

You can mix it with your cereal or just turn it into a 
saucer with a little milk. Take a very little at a time and 
don't try to chew it. Wash it down with plenty of water 
or milk. Severe cases may require a tablespoonful both 
morning and evening until regulated. 

Also the addition of prunes for breakfast will help to 
start the severe case right. The extreme case may need 
the use of an enema at night until regulated. Under no 
circumstance take a cathartic. It will double the fight. 
This treatment never fails. The very extreme case may 
take a month to regulate — but you will win if you persist. 

Besides doing this scavanger work the bran will give to 
your blood the precious mineral salts it carried with it 
from the wheat. 

Be careful, however, to get an un-processed, uncooked 
bran — bran just as it comes from the wheat, — such as 
Pillsbury's. 



Preparing the Food 73 



SOUPS 

The water in which spinach, asparagus, cauliflower, etc., 
are cooked should form the basis for soup. The mineral 
value of the vegetable is lost in the water and we must 
not throw this away. 

Aside from their mineral and nutritive value, the soups 
are delicious and appetizing. 

A dish of any of these soups, especially the thicker ones, 
with bread and butter, is sufficient for luncheon for children 
or adults. 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Take the water in which the spinach has been cooked. 
Boil down to about one-third the quantity of soup desired. 
Thicken with whole meal and season. A little tomato juice 
or fine parsley or both will add flavor. 

When ready to serve, add about twice as much milk as 
you have liquid. Bring to heating point and serve imme- 
diately. 

Do not allow milk to boil. 

(Do not drown the spinach in water when cooking. Use 
only enough water. This makes a more concentrated liquid 
for the soup.) 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Same as Cream of Spinach Soup. Some of the stalk ends 
of the asparagus put through a sieve will give consistency 
and flavor. 

Do not allow the milk to boil. 

Cream of Onion Soup 

Same as Cream of Asparagus. Put some outer parts of 
onions through sieve. 



74 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup 

Same as Cream of Asparagus Soup. Put about 1/3 of the 
flowerets through sieve. 

In making any of the above soups, you may find it more 
convenient to proceed as follows : 

Put the quantity of milk desired for the soup to scald 
in the double boiler. This may be seasoned and thickened 
while the vegetable is cooking. When the vegetable is 
done drain the liquid into the scalded milk, add some of 
the vegetable through the sieve — and serve. 

If you have never eaten Cream of Onion or Cauliflower 
Soup — be sure to try them. You will be amazed at their 
deliciousness. I served the former at luncheon to a party 
of friends who said they did not like onions in any form. 
I put a generous quantity of the well boiled onion through 
the sieve, but was careful not to let a telltale leaf appear. 
They ate with relish and remarked its deliciousness. The 
joke was on them. There is wonderful mineral value in 
the liquid from boiled onions. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

This soup may be made same as cream of asparagus or 
as follows : 

Take two or three potatoes and about a dozen stalks of 
celery (the outer stalks of two or three bunches), leaves, 
roots and all. Cut into small pieces. Boil about three- 
quarters of an hour (or until soft). Put through sieve. 

Add butter, seasoning and milk and heat. 

Do not allow milk to boil. 

No thickening is needed with above. 

Mock Oyster Soup 
Take a bunch of oyster plant (salsify), scrape, cut into 
one-half-inch lengths, cover with water and cook slowly 



Preparing the Food 75 

about one-half an hour. (A small chopped onion cooked 
with them if desired.) When done, thicken, add milk, but- 
ter, pepper and salt and serve. 

If desired the oyster plant may be put through a colander 
or sieve and the thickening omitted. 

Vegetable Stock 

(Fine mineral tonic for the children or adults. Make 
fresh once a week.) 

Do not peel but scrub, cut and boil together all kinds of 
vegetables, carrots, parsnips, turnips, cabbage, leeks, celery, 
onions, beet leaves, etc., about equal quantities of each. Let 
simmer about two hours. 

Drain and keep liquid in cool place. 

Add to this the liquid from spinach, onions or any vege- 
tables as you happen to have it. 

Use stock for soup one day with unpearled barley, then 
rice, then diced vegetables and even as a cream soup made 
exactly like cream of spinach. Or serve it as plain vege- 
table consomme. 

Before serving consomme, however, add a sufficient quan- 
tity of cooked tomatoes to kill the sweetish flavor of the 
vegetables. About one part tomatoes to three of stock. 

This stock is excellent alkali for an acidosis patient. A 
cupful could be taken once a day whether served at the 
table or not. 

Vegetable Cream Soup 

First. Put one very slack level tablespoonful of brown 
rice to boil. 

Take one fair sized potato, one parsnip, one large onion, 
one carrot, three or four stalks of celery. 

Put through grinder or dice very small. 

Let the rice get a ten-minute start; then add vegetables 



76 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

and boil to a pulp. Let all of the water boil into the vege- 
tables. Add butter, seasoning. Stir to avoid burning. 

When ready to serve add one pint milk and bring to heat- 
ing point. 

Do not allow milk to boil. 

This will serve four generously. 

The above with whole wheat bread and butter makes an 
excellent and complete luncheon. 

Plain Vegetable Soup 

Take one of each of the tuber vegetables — (about same 
size) potato, parsnip, carrot, onion, three or four stalks of 
celery, including the leaves. Some cabbage leaves. 

Dice into small pieces. 

Boil about thirty minutes. 

Add generous piece of butter and seasoning. Add parsley 
if desired. 

Serve quite thick. 

The above contains all of the precious mineral salts and 
makes an excellent luncheon for children with whole wheat 
bread. 

Thick Bean Soup 

Soak over night two cupfuls of dry white beans. Do 
not drain. This liquid contains the soluble mineral salts. 

Boil at simmering point about six hours, adding butter 
and salt. 

Stir frequently and add water as needed. 

When ready to serve the beans should be broken open and 
soup should be rich and thick. 

Do not strain. The outer shell of the bean has its definite 
value. 

Serve with whole wheat bread or oatmeal crackers. 



Preparing the Food 77 

Thick Pea Soup 

Get the dry green or yellow peas and make the same as 
bean soup. 
Do not strain. 

Thick Lentil Soup 

Dry lentils soaked and made same as bean or pea soup. 

(Whole wheat crackers — unleavened bread — are very easy 
to make. Keep on hand, to serve with soups and salads.) 

Swedish Health Bread can be bought in packages any- 
where. It is much like a large cracker and is made of entire 
oatmeal. It. is fine to serve with soups or salads. 

The tendency to make puree soups of all vegetables or 
legumes which contain any roughage is one of the evils 
of present-day cooking methods. 

None of us perhaps have realized that in straining the 
split pea or bean soups, etc., we are doing with these 
legumes precisely what the miller does to our grain. 

It is not only that we lose part of the food value in this 
way — but the roughage of this bran is necessary for the 
scavenger work of the body. 

Some people think that this outer covering is "indigest- 
ible" — so it is — if by digestible you mean absorbable. Fine 
absorbable food is the curse of civilization. All such food 
packs in the intestines. The result is constipation. 

Our tastes have been cultivated until they are perverted. 
We are not even willing to chew. These thick old-fash- 
ioned soups are really very delicious. Cultivate a taste for 
them in the children. 

The thick bean or pea, soups may be improved by allow- 
ing them to cook until very thick and. then adding a little 
milk when ready to serve. 

The only puree which our system allows is Cream of 



78 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Corn. Cook the can of corn for 5 or 10 minutes, put 
through sieve, add milk and seasoning and serve. 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 

It was a revelation to me when reading "The Science of 
Eating" to learn that I had been throwing the best part of 
my vegetables down the sink. I, like most of you, had 
peeled my potatoes, carrots, turnips, et al.; boiled all the 
precious minerals out and thrown the water away. Many a 
time I had eaten spinach for the sole purpose of its mineral 
benefit and had lost the best part of it. I did not know. 

The water in which spinach, onions, cauliflower, aspara- 
gus, etc., are cooked should form the basis for soups. (See 
"Soups".) 

Vegetable juices can also be used in sauces as follows : 

Cook the vegetables in a small amount of water. When 
cooked till tender there should be just enough water to serve 
as sauce for the vegetable. Prepare as follows: 

No. 1 

Drain vegetable, saving juice. Have at hand a sufficient 
amount of butter for seasoning and whole meal for thicken- 
ing. Melt the butter, rub in the flour until smooth. Put 
the vegetable juice into the saucepan, stir in the mixture, 
stir until thick and smooth. Into this put the drained vege- 
table, heat and serve. 

The beaten yolk of an egg will greatly improve the above 
sauce. 

No. 2 

Some people find it easier to make the above sauce as 
follows : 

Drain vegetable, saving the juice. Stir into this a small 
amount of flour which has been moistened with a little 
water. Stir until thick. Add butter and seasoning. Put 
the drained vegetables back into the sauce, heat and serve. 



Preparing the Food 79 

White Sauce 

(For Vegetables) 

Put a pint of milk into the double boiler to scald. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, rub into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Stir until smooth. Pour this slowly into the 
heated milk, stirring until thick and smooth. Season with 
salt. 

This sauce can be kept on hand in the refrigerator and 
thinned with a little milk as needed. 

For scalloped dishes a well-beaten egg is added to above. 
For fish sauce twice as much butter should be used. 



80 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



VEGETABLES 

All vegetables after preparing should stand in cold water 
at least one-half hour before cooking. 

Vegetables should not be overcooked nor water-soaked. 
Learn to "time" your cooking so that everything will be 
done together, always allowing yourself five to ten minutes 
for preparing sauces and serving. 

The Mineral element in all vegetables can be conserved 
very easily if we will discard the old and form new habits 
of cooking. 

The value of this mineral element cannot be overesti- 
mated. It serves as a balance for meat or other acid-forming 
foods — thus keeping down the acidity of our blood. The 
following methods of cooking conserve all the minerals. 
Don't forget that these minerals are needed by the blood 
to keep the tissues in a state of health. 

Carrots 

Young, tender carrots are sweet and delicate. They do 
not possess the strong flavor of the larger (winter) tuber 
which has been off the stem for a long time. They are rich 
in vitamines and mineral salts and should appear very fre- 
quently on our menus. 

They should be scraped, cut lengthwise into quarters or 
eighths and may be plainly served in three ways : 

1st. Cooked in a casserole with a very little water (just 
enough to keep from burning), a very little (or no) salt and 
a generous dab of butter. 

2nd. Steamed and served with butter or white sauce. 

3rd. If boiled they should be served in their own juice. 
See Vegetable Sauce Nos. 1 and 2. 



Preparing the Food 81 

The best way to serve the older carrots in the winter is 
steamed and served with white sauce thinned with milk. 

Turnips 

Young, white turnips should be peeled and* cut in thin 
slices. They may be — 

1st. Cooked in a casserole with l or 2 tablespoonfuls 
of water, salt, pepper and butter. 

2nd. Steamed and mashed with plenty of butter. 

3rd. Steamed and creamed with white sauce. 

Rutabagas are best sliced thin, steamed and mashed. This 
is also true of white turnips when older. 

Parsnips 

Parsnips are a winter vegetable. They are rich in min- 
erals — especially calcium, potassium and phosphorus. 

They also should come back into greater popularity and 
appear on our menus once or twice a week. 

1st. They are most delicious served with stews and 
fricassees. When served this way they may be cut into 
slices lengthwise, boiled and their juices used for the gravy 
of the meat. 

2nd. Cut into slices lengthwise, steamed and turned over 
in browning butter (not fried), but deliciously seasoned 
this way. 

3rd. Steamed and served with white sauce. 

4th. Diced and creamed. For this they may be boiled 
and served in their own juice prepared as for carrots with 
some milk or cream added, but never boiled. 

Potatoes 

The richest of all the tubers in minerals. Boiled it loses 
its minerals in the water and becomes an acid food because 



82 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

of the great amount of starch. Baked, the minerals predom- 
inate and more than neutralize the acid of the starch. 

Couldn't we go back to our childhood habits and "Let's 
pretend" there is only one way of cooking potatoes ? If the 
family tires of his brown coat let him disappear from the 
table, entirely for two or three days. He will be very wel- 
come when he comes back. 

For variety, however, potatoes may be served in any of 
the following ways : — 

1st. Baked (thoroughly scrubbed first) and served im- 
mediately when done. Standing makes them soggy. 

2nd. Stuffed. For this bake as above. When done cut 
in two (or cut a slice off lengthwise), scoop out the inside, 
mash, season with salt, butter and milk. Return this to the 
skins, pin together with toothpicks and bake in moderate 
oven for five to ten minutes. 

3rd. Steamed in their jackets. They must be removed 
from steamer- the moment they are cooked, otherwise they 
are soggy. They may then be peeled (remove the brown 
skin only) and served plain or mashed. New potatoes are 
delicious turned over and over whole in butter browning 
in a frying pan. 

4th. Scalloped. Sliced into a casserole with plenty of 
milk and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 

5th. Au gratin. Same* as 4th with generous layers of 
grated cheese. Steam them first — in skins. 

6th. Lyonnaise. Same as 4th with layers of thinly 
sliced raw onions. 

The last three ways are not so good as the first because 
the potatoes are peeled. However, their juices are not en- 
tirely lost. 

Onions 

Onions are rich in sulphur, iron and other minerals and 
vitamines. Our grandmothers pinned their faith to the cura- 



Preparing the Food 83 

tive value of "Onion Syrup" in colds — and with good reason. 

Try to have onions in some form once or twice a week. 
Besides the minerals and vitamines which they contain they 
are a splendid body regulator. They are really a leafy 
vegetable but you may alternate them with your tubers. 
There is probably no vegetable of greater value than the 
humble onion. 

Chopped and used as seasoning they are well appreciated, 
but as a vegetable in their own right they are not half so 
popular as they should be. They may be served: — 

1st. Baked in their skins. (They require about as much 
time as potatoes.) Then peeled and served with butter. 
They are delicious. 

2nd. Steamed and served with butter or white sauce. 

3rd. Boiled — the water saved for soup — and served with 
butter or they may be served in their own sauce (prepared 
as for carrots) to which is added the beaten yolk of an egg 
and a little cream. 

4th. Cooked in a casserole with milk butter and season- 
ing. 

Cabbage 

Cabbage is very rich in sulphur and hydrogen. Its food 
value is greatest served raw in salads. It is sometimes made 
very indigestible by wrong cooking or over cooking. It 
should not be boiled with greasy meats. Instead it should 
be prepared, quartered and soaked in cold water for at least 
an hour before cooking, then — 

1st. Steamed one hour or until tender, placed in shallow 
dish, cut fine and served with salt, pepper and butter or 
with white sauce thinned with cream. 

It will cook quicker if cut into coarse shreds. 

It also seems more delicate this way. 

2nd. Boiled about three-quarters of an hour in an 



84 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

uncovered kettle — the liquid used for soup stock — and served 
same as above or creamed. 

If you are not making soup stock try cream of cabbage 
soup or else steam the cabbage. 

3rd. Cooked in a casserole (1 hour) with a little water, 
butter, pepper and salt. Never use vinegar on cabbage. 

Savoy {Curly Cabbage) 

This cabbage is very delicate and digestible. It should be 
prepared and served the same as cabbage. It takes less time 
to cook, 20 to 30 minutes being sufficient. 

Brussels Sprouts 

The most delicate of all the cabbage family. To pre- 
pare, remove the loose outer leaves, let stand in cold water 
30 minutes. Steam ^4 °f an nour (until tender), and serve 
same as cabbage. They may also be cooked in a casserole 
the same as cabbage. 

Cauliflower 

Separate into flowerets and let stand in cold water one 
hour, then — 

1st. Steam and serve with butter sauce or white sauce. 

2nd. Boil — about 20 minutes. Use the juice and about 
54 of the flowerets for cream soup and serve cauliflower 
same as above. 

3rd. Au gratin — first cook the cauliflower, then place in 
casserole, pour over it some white sauce thinned with cream. 
sprinkle grated cheese over top and brown. 

4th. Au casserole with milk, butter, pepper and salt. 

Celery 

The outer stalks which are not fit for the table are appe- 
tizing and beneficial when cut into pieces, stwed and served 



Preparing the Food 85 

in their own sauce. The same should be thickened with meal 
and flavored with butter and the beaten yolk of an egg 
added. 

Asparagus 

Rich in mineral value. Boiled, the water makes a most 
delicious cream soup. The simple ways of serving are: 
The entire stalk on toast or cut into inch lengths and served 
with butter or cream or white sauce. 

There are many -fancy asparagus dishes, but always save 
the liquid for soup, or else steam the asparagus or cook in a 
casserole. 

Spinach 

Rich in mineral value, especially potassium, iron and 
iodine. Like all of the green vegetables it should appear 
on the menu often. It may be: — 

1st. Cut fine or put through the meat chopper (to reduce 
its bulk) and cooked in a casserole without water, seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter (about 20 minutes.) 

2nd. Boiled — the water used for cream soup and served 
with salt, pepper and butter. The hard boiled yolks of eggs 
may be sliced and arranged on top. 

3rd. Spinach may also be cooked directly over the fire 
without water. (This, however, requires watching to keep 
from burning). It may then be creamed by adding a little 
milk, butter and seasoning. 

There are several fancy ways of preparing spinach, all of 
which are good provided the juice is not wasted. 

Beet top and other greens are cooked in the same way as 
spinach and the water used for soup stock. 

(Never use vinegar on greens.) 

String Beans 

String beans or butter beans may be steamed or cooked in 
a casserole and served with butter or white sauce. 



86 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Lima Beans 

Almost every good cook gives you explicit directions as to 
how to remove the outer skin of the bean. Dismiss these 
directions from your mind. The outer skin like the bran of 
the wheat has its definite value. Do not remove it. 

To stew fresh lima beans, cook directly over fire about 
20 minutes letting water boil well down, then transfer to a 
double boiler and let simmer about 30 minutes. Add but- 
ter, salt and pepper and serve. (Add milk or cream also if 
desired.) 

Dried lima beans should be soaked overnight. In the 
morning do not drain — add sufficient water, bring to boiling 
point, turn down fire and allow to simmer 3 or 4 hours. 
They should be served in their own juice which, when suf- 
ficiently cooked, should be quite thick. Flavor generously 
with butter. The flavor is improved by boiling with them 
for the last half hour a small bag of sweet Marjoram and 
thyme. French people like to cook with them the left over 
bone of roast lamb for flavor. 

Dried White Beans \ Peas and Lentils 

Prepare the same as lima beans whether they are to be 
used as soup, served plain or baked. They need several 
hours cooking. 

The tireless cooker is ideal for the above. 

Brown Rice 

Brown rice is so rich in nutriment that it is wise to con- 
trive as many ways as possible to serve it appetizingly. 
Following are some suggestions : — 

1st. It may be served as a vegetable instead of potatoes 
with butter, pepper and salt. (For directions see p. 65.) 

2nd. It is delicious with fricassee of chicken (or other 



Preparing the Food 87 

fricassee) arranged around the platter in mounds and served 
with plenty of gravy, or: — 

Rice with Poached Eggs 

Boil l cup of rice and while rice is cooking make a dress- 
ing as follows : — Put l tablespoonful of butter into a sauce- 
pan, melt, and rub into it l tablespoonful of flour ; into this 
stir slowly 1^2 cups of vegetable stock (or milk or water) ; 
season to taste; pour over the rice and serve with poached 
eggs. 

The dressing for above may be varied by using tomato 
juice instead of the stock (rub canned tomatoes through a 
sieve), or a mixture of tomato juice and chopped mushrooms 
and onions. The latter is delicious. 

Scalloped Rice 

Boil rice until tender, salt it. Arrange a layer of rice and 
a layer of grated cheese, another layer of rice and so on — 
having cheese on top. Moisten very well with milk and 
bake until brown. 

Brown rice may be substituted for macaroni or spaghetti 
in any of your recipes for the latter. 

Brown rice fritters are delicious. 



88 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



BREADS 

Too much stress cannot be laid upon the importance of 
your whole wheat bread. Following is the recipe given to 
us by Mrs. Wheeler, the story of whose whole wheat family 
can be found on page 56. 

Follow this recipe exactly, not approximately. Mrs. 
Wheeler never varies it and it never fails. 

To use it successfully you must have a bread mixer. The 
dough is very thin, very sticky and hard to handle. The 
reason for this is obvious ; the bran absorbs the moisture in 
cooking, hence the dough requires more water than other 
flours. 

Lighten your flour before using; i.e.: — handle it twice. 
It packs too heavy in the bag. Transfer it from bag to 
other receptacle before measuring. You may sift it and 
examine the siftings for cleanliness — but the siftings must 
be put back into the flour. 

Do not fill the bread pans too full. They must not over- 
flow in the cooking. 

Also do not use deep bread tins — 2^2 to 3 in. is deep 
enough. A good sized tin is 8^ in. by 3^2 in. by 2^4 in- 
bottom measurements. 

Do not cut the bread until the day after it is baked and 
use a very sharp knife. You can ruin a good loaf by cut- 
ting it with a dull knife. 

The recipe follows: — 

Whole Wheat Bread— {Mis. Wheeler) 

Dissolve one cake of yeast in one cup of lukewarm water 
before you do anything else. Set it aside to dissolve. 

Next combine the following ingredients, being sure to 



Preparing the Food 89 

have the water warm enough so that the completed mixture 
will be lukewarm. 

1 level tablespoonful of butter. 

2 level tablespoonfuls of salt. 

3 level tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1% cups of milk. 

4 cups of lukewarm water. 

To this combination add the dissolved yeast. Be sure 
that the whole thing is lukewarm. Insufficient warmth will 
ruin the result. 

Add now 13 1-3 cups of whole wheat flour, and turn in a 
bread mixer for seven minutes. Don't fail to use a mixer, 
as this dough is very thin and sticky. 

Cover the top of the mixer, and let it stand in a warm 
place for from four to six hours. If the dough takes six 
hours to rise it has had insufficient heat either in the mixing 
or during the rising period, and the bread will probably not 
turn out as well as it should. The ideal rising period is a 
trifle over four hours. The dough should rise till it is al- 
most twice as high in the mixer as at first, the risen dough 
filling an ordinary sized mixer about two-thirds full. 

Divide the dough into three parts, put it in buttered bread 
pans, and set it aside in a warm place till it rises to the top 
of the pans. Before rising in the pans the dough will fill 
each pan a little more than half full, if they be full sized 
pans. (If small the above makes 4 loaves.) For the dough 
to rise in the pans should take eighteen to twenty minutes. 
A good way to get enough warmth to cause this rapid rise 
of the dough is to light your oven and place the dough 
near it. 

When you put your bread in the over be sure that the 
oven is very hot. After the bread has been in that heat for 
five minutes turn the burners lower, to the point which will 
give what you ordinarily consider a "moderate" oven. Bake 
for fifty-five or sixty minutes, changing the location of the 



90 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

pans in the oven occasionally so that all sides will bake 
evenly. On removing from the oven, butter the tops of the 
loaves, and let them stand to cool. As a result of this 
method of baking the loaves will have a thick, firm crust, 
and the bread itself will be light. Don't cut the bread till 
the next day, and when you do, use a very sharp knife. In 
cutting, save the crumbs by sweeping them off the bread- 
board into a special crock. They can be used for thicken- 
ing. 

You will note that no mention is made of kneading the 
bread or forming into loaves. When the dough is suffi- 
ciently risen in the mixer, turn the mixer crank a few times, 
then take the soft dough right in your hands and put it 
directly into the buttered bread tins — which should be hot. 
Heat is a real factor all the way through. 

In just one way the above recipe varies and that is the 
time for cooking. Sometimes the bread may need an hour 
and a quarter or even an hour and a half, depending on 
your oven. Test it with a straw and listen for the absence 
of sound before removing from oven. 

The appearance of the loaf is flat and brown almost like a 
fruit cake. 

Put raisins into a loaf. It will be much like fruit cake. 

If you have failed in your locality to procure 100 per cent 
flour, use the kind which is on the market (80 per cent) plus 
a little bran (about a tablespoonful to each pound), plus 
one or two cups of graham. With this mixture, however, 
you cannot use above recipe. It will require more flour. 
The dough must not be so thin and sticky as above and yet 
must be considerably softer than a white flour dough. 

Persist until you secure 100 per cent flour. 

Plain Whole Wheat Muffins 

2 cups whole wheat flour 
1/3 cup sugar 



Preparing the Food 91 

1 rounding teaspoonful baking powder 

Y2 teaspoonful salt 

1% cups sour milk 

y 2 level teaspoonful baking soda 

I egg 

1 tablespoonful butter (melted). 

Mix the dry ingredients. Beat the egg, add the milk, 
then the melted butter, then the dry ingredients. Beat 
well and bake in 12 greased gem tins 17 to 20 minutes. 
Very hot oven first 5 minutes, then moderate. 

If sweet milk is used omit the soda and use two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Chopped raisins or dates can be added to this recipe. 

Whole Wheat Fruit Muffins — (Mrs. Wheeler) 
(One Dozen) 
1/2 cup brown sugar 
1/2. cup of butter or y 2 cup of sawtay 

2 eggs 

Y^ cup of milk 

yz cup chopped raisins and dates 
2 cups of whole wheat flour 
2 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
y 2 level teaspoonful each of cloves, salt, allspice, ginger, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. 

1st. Cream the butter and sugar. 

2nd. Add the beaten eggs. 

3rd. Mix the dry ingredients together and add them. 

4th. Put in the milk. 

Bake in muffin tins for about 35 minutes. Have the oven 
very hot for the first five minutes. After that use a moder- 
ate oven." 

O Id-Fashioned Nut Loaf 

3^2 cups of whole wheat flour 

4 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder 



92 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

%. cup sugar 

l teaspoonful salt 

l cup chopped nuts 

l cup chopped raisins 

» egg 

2% cups of milk 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Mix the flour, baking powder, salt and sugar; beat the 
egg, stir in the milk; into this stir the dry ingredients, add 
the nuts and raisins last. Let stand in warm place for 20 
minutes and bake in moderate oven for 50 minutes. This 
also, like plain bread, sometimes takes longer to cook. Test 
it with straw. Unless dry it is not done. It may take 1 1/3 
hours. 

For Date Bread use 1^ cups dates instead of nuts and 
raisins — or 1 cup dates and ^ cups nuts. 

Date Gems 

2 eggs 

54 pound dates 

1 cup milk 
\ x /z cups flour 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
Yz teaspoonful salt. 

Beat the yolks ; add the milk, the flour and beat until 
smooth; add the baking powder and the dates, chopped. 
Mix thoroughly. Bake in twelve greased gem pans, in a 
quick oven 30 minutes. Serve hot. 

Chopped raisins may be substituted for dates. 

Whole Wheat Crackers 

(Unleavened whole wheat bread) 
Mix y 2 pint of milk with y^ pint of water. Rub into 1 
quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter; add gradually 



Preparing the Food 93 

the milk and water. You must have a hard, almost dry 
dough. Knead this dough for fifteen minutes, then pound 
it with a hatchet or ordinary beefsteak pounder, folding it 
over, enveloping the air. Cut the dough into quarters ; roll 
each piece just as thin as possible. Cut into rounds or 
squares, lay them in a lightly greased pan, and bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp and slightly brown. The only 
thing to be remembered is that the dough must be very hard 
and must be well manipulated. 

Whole Wheat Waffles— (Mrs. Wheeler) 

3 cups of whole wheat flour 

2 cups of milk 

2 eggs 

3 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
l level teaspoonful of salt 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1st. Mix the flour, baking powder and salt. 

2nd. Add the milk. 

3rd. Add the eggs, well beaten. 

4th. Mix thoroughly, and bake on a hot waffle iron. 

Southern Corn Pone 

2 cups sour milk 
y 2 teaspoonful salt 

y 2 (level) teaspoonful baking powder 

1 tablespoonful melted butter 

2 cups coarse corn meal. 

Mix salt and meal, add melted butter. Dissolve soda in 
milk and stir into meal. Stir well. Make small oblong 
"pones" about y 2 inch thick. 

Place in greased pan and bake until brown. 



94 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Johnny Cake 

1 cup whole wheat flour 

l cup corn meal 

1/3 cup sugar 

l rounding teaspoonful baking powder 

x /2 teaspoonful salt 

1%. cup sour milk 

Yt level teaspoonful baking soda 

1 egg 

l tablespoonful butter (melted). 

Mix the dry ingredients. Beat the egg, add the milk, 
then the melted butter, then the dry ingredients. Beat 
well and bake in greased shallow tin 17 to 20 minutes. 
Very hot oven first 5 minutes, then moderate. 

The above may be baked in gem tins if desired. 

Any good recipe you may have for muffins, etc., can be 
used substituting whole wheat for white flour ; using a little 
less of the whole wheat (slack cupfuls). 

Whole Wheat Pie Crust — (Mrs. Wheeler) 

The following recipe makes top and bottom crust for 
two pies. 

3 cups of whole wheat flour 
^ of a teaspoonful of salt 
24 of a teaspoonful of baking powder 
y% of a cup of butter and sawtay, or any good shorten- 
ing 
9 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

Whole wheat pie crust is more brittle than that made 
with white flour, and is therefore difficult to roll into a 
single sheet. It tastes equally good, however, when cut into 
strips. 



Preparing the Food 95 

Whole Wheat Flour to Thicken Gravy 
(Mrs. Wheeler) 

Put one cup of whole wheat flour in a dry skillet; stir 
continually over a fire till it is brown. Add this to the juice 
of the roast, with the amount of water necessary to give it a 
satisfactory consistency. Add a pinch of salt. This use of 
the whole wheat flour gives a gravy of much more delicious 
flavor than can be made with white flour. 



96 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



SALAD HINTS 

Have salad, salad, salad. Mix and utilize raw green 
things of all kinds. Use left over vegetables — but always 
with the crisp lettuce leaves and the delicious, nourishing 
dressings. 

Don't use vinegar — use lemon juice instead. In the good 
old days when vinegar was "cider" it was not so bad, but 
keep the acids which are called "vinegar" today, out of the 
reach of the children. Lemon juice tastes better, it is a 
food and it brings out the flavor of other fruits and vege- 
tables. 

All green leaves contain the vitamines. All green leaves 
are rich in minerals. Many of these are more effective in 
their raw state than when cooked. 

Have a salad at every dinner. 

Have a crisp head lettuce — or water cress — or water cress 
and young dandelion greens, or lettuce with left over string 
beans, etc., etc. The variety is endless. 

Mixed Vegetable Salads 

May be made from any available mixture of cooked or 
raw vegetables. 

Suggestions : — 

Asparagus and green peas served on a lettuce leaf with 
French dressing or mayonnaise. 

Left over boiled beets may be diced and served on a 
lettuce leaf with something white — such as diced apple or 
shredded cabbage. Boiled dressing — celery — nuts. 

During spring and summer the raw vegetables and greens 
should be used as much as possible. Two which should be 
used as often as possible and with any mixed vegetable 
combination are spinach and grated or ground carrots. 



Preparing the Food 97 

Spinach is most rich in iron and other minerals. Some 
of this value is lost in cooking no matter how careful you 
may be. Raw, the taste is not pleasant — hence take one or 
two raw spinach leaves, chop very fine and sprinkle over 
any and every salad you make. Disguised with the salad 
dressing they make a palatable tonic. Use as much of the 
spinach in this way as you can without detracting from the 
flavor of the salad. 

This is also true of grated or ground carrots. 

No. i. Try diced apple and ground carrots and nuts 
served on lettuce with a sprinkle of spinach and a boiled 
salad dressing. 

or 

No. 2. Shredded cabbage and ground carrot and raisins 
with a sprinkle of spinach served with mayonnaise or French 
dressing with an extra dash of lemon juice. 

or 

No. 3. Shredded cabbage and diced apples with chopped 
raisins and a boiled salad dressing. 

Serve grated carrots with your left over string beans or 
your diced beets, — or any other combination your fancy may 
direct. 

Keep a few spinach leaves in the icebox for above pur- 
pose. Remember — they will not add to the flavor of any- 
thing — you are using them for their tonic value. 

Use chopped chives or parsley frequently. 

Use chopped raisins, chopped dates and chopped nuts 
with any vegetable salad mixture. Sprinkle a few nuts on 
any or everything. 

Raw cabbage has also greater value than cooked. And 
it is available in all seasons. Shred and serve in any com- 
bination you wish. But do not soak it with vinegar. Any 
salad dressing. 



98 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Cabbage Salad 

The following recipe for cabbage salad was given me by 
an old German housewife. 

Strip from the head the tenderest leaves. Cut out 
the thick center leaf vein. Lay three or four of these half 
leaves together, roll as tight as possible. With a very sharp 
knife shave sections through the roll. The shavings should 
be extremely fine. 

Rub a salad bowl with garlic (or mix some finely chopped 
onion with the cabbage), place the shavings in bowl, season 
to taste, mix well with French dressing, cover and let stand 
over night (or for several hours before using). 

Tomatoes 

Are very popular, and with reason. They are very rich 
in minerals and vitamines. Their combinations and fancy 
salads are numerous. With the seeds scooped out and the 
bowl filled with diced cucumbers and served on lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise or boiled dressing they are delicious. 

If served plain — sliced — they should be eaten with nei- 
ther sugar nor vinegar. Just salt or any salad dressing. 

The discovery of Water Soluble C in tomato juice and 
the further discovery that cooking did not destroy this vita- 
mine have given to the tomato a new significance. This is 
the vitamine which protects against scurvy, hence tomato 
juice is now given to infants who are fed on pasteurized 
milk in cases where orange juice is not available. 

Cucumbers 

The peeling of the cucumber should be quite thick. The 
cucumbers should then stand in very cold (preferably iced) 
water for at least one hour before using. Then sliced very 
thin and served on lettuce leaves with French dressing. 



Preparing the Food 99 

Cucumbers are used in all sorts of combinations. In most 
of these the seeds are scooped out and the meaty part diced. 

Cucumbers should never be served soaked in vinegar. It 
is this which has made them "disagree" with many people. 

If you can possibly eat them, cucumbers are one of the 
most valuable of the spring vegetables. If they have here- 
tofore disagreed with you perhaps you ate them with vine- 
gar or with the wrong combination of other foods. Plain 
starch (such as boiled potatoes and white bread) will not 
combine with cucumbers. Your distress may not have been 
the fault of the cucumbers at all. Try them once at a meal 
at which you eat neither potatoes nor white bread. The 
genuine — 

Combination Salad 

Is head lettuce leaves, sliced cucumbers and tomatoes. It 
is best served with French dressing or mayonnaise. 
But there are so many "combinations." 

Waldorf Salad 

Is diced apples, chopped nuts and celery servea with sweet 
boiled dressing. 

Fruit Salads 

Any combination of fresh raw fruits served on lettuce 
leaves with boiled salad dressing and generously sprinkled 
with nuts is delicious and rich in mineral salts. 

Cooked fruits were never intended for salads nor cock- 
tails. The raw fruit combinations in both salads and cock- 
tails are served without sugar. The original — 

Fruit Salad 

'Was a combination of oranges, diced bananas, Malaga 
grapes and nuts, served with boiled dressing. 



100 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

A banana split lengthwise, sprinkled with nuts served on 
a lettuce leaf is served also with boiled dressing but a diced 
banana and nut salad is best with equal parts of olive oil 
and lemon juice, mixed drop by drop. 

Carrot and Cottage Cheese Salad 

Carrot and Cottage Cheese Salad is made of about equal 
parts of cottage cheese and ground carrots with about 1/3 
the quantity of chopped nuts. Season to taste and flavor 
generously with lemon juice. 

Cream Cheese and Crushed Fruit 

Most of you are familiar with the cream cheese and bar- 
le-duc mixture. (Bar-le-duc is a combination of red cur- 
rants, lemon juice and honey.) A similar paste can be 
made of the cheese and any small fruit jam or jelly. These 
mixtures are delicious served with crackers. 

Cream cheese is also good with chopped raisins or figs or 
with cooked (or canned) pimento which has been put through 
the grinder. 



Preparing the Food 101 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

When lemons are to be had do not use vinegar in salad 
dressings. There are three reasons. The lemon juice is a 
food in itself ; it will give a better flavor to the dressing ; and 
it brings out the natural flavor of other fruits. 

Don't use plain vinegar on anything. 

French Dressing 

Real French dressing is made with 4 parts oil to l part 
lemon juice. The lemon juice should be beaten into the oil 
drop by drop. A pinch of salt and a dash of paprika are 
added to taste. It will keep indefinitely in a cool place. 

For fruit salads where French dressing is desired it should 
be equal parts of oil and lemon juice. The latter brings out 
the flavor of the fruit. This is good with a grapefruit or 
diced banana salad. 

Mayonnaise 

Place two egg yolks in small sized old-fashioned mixing 
bowl, which runs to a point at the bottom. Beat with a fork 
first. Add one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful 
dry mustard and a dash of cayenne. Then take Dover egg 
beater (the one with the wheel and rotary motion) and have 
some one drop in olive oil drop by drop while you beat 
constantly. When the mixture gets very stiff, drop in the 
same way about one-half tablespoonful of lemon juice. 
This thins the mixture. Then add more oil until very thick, 
then more lemon juice and so on until dressing has right 
consistency and flavor. It usually takes the juice of one 
small lemon to a half pint can of olive oil. The oil must 
go in very slowly at the start or the mixture will separate. 
When it is smooth and about half made, the oil may be 



102 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

added faster (one-half teaspoonful in a tiny stream), like- 
wise the lemon juice. 

This dressing should be tightly covered and kept in a 
refrigerator. It will keep for several days. 

If it separates, either during mixing or after standing, it 
can be made smooth again by taking another egg yolk and 
beating mixture into it almost as slowly as above. 

"Droppers" for making this dressing can be bought at 
any hardware store for ten cents. 

Cream Mayonnaise 

Make mayonnaise exactly as above and just before serving 
beat into it very thick well whipped cream using about equal 
parts of cream and mayonnaise. Thin whipped cream will 
not answer. This dressing is delicious with crisp head 
lettuce — with lettuce and tomatoes or with fruit salads. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

2 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 cup lemon juice and water 

1 cup milk 

1 tablespoonful flour 

1 teaspoonful dry mustard 

1 level teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put the milk to scald in double boiler; melt butter; rub 
butter and flour together until smooth; add the beaten 
eggs. Into this stir the hot milk. Return to double boiler 
and cook until the eggs are cooked; stirring constantly two 
or three minutes. Remove from the fire and stir in slowly 
the sugar, salt and mustard (moistened in a little water). 
Return to fire and cook until thick and smooth, stirring 
constantly. When almost done add the lemon juice. 



Preparing the Food 103 



FRUIT 

Fruit is one of God's blessing to man, delicious, appetiz- 
ing, it stimulates the flow of gastric juices. Grateful to 
the parched throats of the sick; eagerly eaten by children 
it has, unknown to themselves, saved the lives of many 
people whose bodies were otherwise mineral starved. 

With the minerals removed from our grains and the 
waste of the soluble mineral salts in cooking our vegetables, 
fruits have indeed been a God-send; for fruits are mineral 
laden to the last degree and also contain in abundance the 
water soluble vitamines B and C. 

Cultivate your taste for fruits of all kinds Increase the 
demand and thereby encourage the fruit farmer, which 
will increase the supply and thus fruits will be cheaper. 
Let us all help to get these precious life savers within the 
reach of the poor. 

Eat fresh fruits and fresh fruits in season — at any or 
every meal and between meals. Their value has been 
much underestimated. Give them to the children instead 
of candy. Serve them in salads and cocktails. Serve the 
latter without sugar. Sugar is not an appetizer. 

Serve fresh fruit always without sugar — this means 
grapefruit, oranges, et al. All fruit contains its own 
natural sugar in sufficient quantities. If it is not good 
enough to eat in its natural state — let it alone. Why should 
you need sugar on sliced oranges at the table — you relish 
the whole fruit without sugar between meals — (Habit). 
Sugar does not mix with fruit acids and very often sets 
up a fermentation in the stomach. Teach the children to 
enjoy their fruit without sugar. They will like it just 
as well provided the sweetened habit is never formed. 

It is the sugar and starches (white bread, cake, etc.), 



104 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

eaten with fruit which sometimes cause intestinal disturb- 
ance. It is very rarely the fruit. 

A tablespoonful of lemon juice in a glass of cold water 
on a hot summer day is refreshing and will quench your 
thirst. (Sweetened lemonade will not.) 

Cooked fruits are not so good as raw fruits. Cooking 
destroys some of the natural ferments and vitamines. 

Some people have the false idea that fruit is acid and 
therefore must not be eaten with milk or in certain illnesses. 
This is not true. Fruit acids are immediately changed in 
the stomach and converted into their alkaline salts, thus 
forming the bases for neutralizing the acids of your body. 
Eaten raw and without sugar there is no better food for an 
acidosis patient. 

Raisins contain more iron than any other article of food. 
Use them in every available way. Soaked overnight and 
boiled for a few minutes in the morning they are an ex- 
cellent breakfast fruit. 

Give raisins and dates to the children instead of candy. 

Sun-dried fruits of all kinds are excellent. The pale 
{beautiful looking) dried peaches and apricots are dried 
with sulphurous acid (poison). Select the dark ones. They 
are cheaper and better. 

Ask for sun dried fruits. 



Preparing the Food 105 



NUTS 

Nuts of all kinds are rich in food value. Because of 
their protein content they are an excellent substitute for 
meat. 

Hickory nuts are perhaps the most delicious cake nuts 
obtainable. The Brazil nut, being so rich and oily, is not 
so good in cake or nut loaf as the hickory nut or pecan or 
English walnut. 

The latter are also the best for salads or candies. 

Almonds may be blanched and salted at home and make 
an excellent dessert in themselves. 

Nuts, however as dessert, are best served in their shells. 
There is less danger of eating them too rapidly and the 
element of sociability while picking and nibbling enters into 
the digestibility of the meal. 

Use chopped nuts generously in salads and desserts. 
Serve them with raisins or figs for dessert frequently. Give 
them to the children instead of candy. 



106 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



DESSERT SUGGESTIONS 

Any plain cake recipe which you have can be made with 
the 80 per cent flour — or with equal parts whole wheat 
(100 per cent) and white. The fancier cakes, such as 
Angel food and Sunshine cake, will, of course, require 
white flour. 

Once in a while, anyhow, you will "cheat" a -little on 
your desserts. There will come the day for a delicious, 
flaky-crusted, fresh berry pie (do not give the crust to 
the children), and for the ever-popular, always-welcome 
strawberry shortcake. These, however, can be made of 
whole wheat. Try them. 

But if the body of your meal is carefully planned and 
the bulk of your dietary is along health building lines, a 
little spree now and then won't hurt you. It is the general 
living plan that we are fighting for. 

Following are some light desserts: — 

Prune Whip 

Cook twenty large, meaty prunes until tender, stone, shred 
and beat to a pulp. Add to them a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Beat the white of 3 eggs until stiff. Add two table- 
spoonfuls granulated sugar. Fold in the prunes a little at 
a time beating constantly. Bake in moderate oven about 
fifteen minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

Queen of Puddings 

Very similar to old-fashioned bread pudding, only made 
of whole wheat. Take the dry pieces of whole wheat bread, 
soak in one quart of milk about one hour. Then stir into 
this the beaten yolks of 2 eggs; sweeten with brown sugar 



Preparing the Food 107 

and season with nutmeg. Bake in moderate ovtn 20 to 30 
minutes. Remove from oven and spread over top generous 
dabs of home made jelly. Beat the egg whites until stiff, 
add slack tablespoonful of sugar, spread over top and brown. 

Marshmallow Pudding 

Beat four egg whites to a stiff froth. Dissolve one 
rounded tablespoonful of powdered gelatine in one-half cup 
of cold water ; then add one-half cupful of boiling water. 
When cool beat slowly into the egg whites and whip in 
one-half cup of sugar. Add flavoring or a few fresh or 
evaporated apricots mashed to a pulp. Stir until mixture 
hardens. Serve with whipped cream. 

Charlotte Russe 

To one-half pint of best quality whipping cream, add one 
generous teaspoonful vanilla and one heaping tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt. Beat with Dover 
egg beater until very stiff. (No gelatine or other thickening 
is needed.) Line five or six sherbet glasses or small tea- 
cups with split ladyfingers. Fill with above mixture and 
put on ice until ready to serve. 

Noodle Custard 

Cook one cupful of fine homemade noodles until tender. 
Drain. Add two well beaten eggs to a pint of milk, season 
with sugar, salt and nutmeg. Pour over the noodles and 
bake in moderate oven until thickened and brown. 

Stewed Figs 

Soak in hot water large pulled figs for six or eight hours 
or overnight. Boil for two or three minutes. Drain off 
the juice and boil down to a thin syrup. Pour over the figs. 
Serve with or without cream. 



108 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



Fruit Ices and Frozen Fruits 

If you get an ice cream freezer the recipes for above will 
accompany the freezer. The fruit ices made with gelatine 
and fruit juice taste infinitely better than "store" ice cream 
and are very inexpensive. 

Real home made ice cream once in a while — made with 
real cream is a treat fit for the gods. 

Whole Wheat Layer Cake — (Mrs. Wheeler) 

3 e gg s 

\y 2 cups of sugar 

Y2 cup of butter 

\y 2 cups of milk 

3 cups of whole wheat flour 

J4 teaspoonful of salt 

y teaspoonful of nutmeg 

3 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder (Royal). 

1st. Beat the eggs well. 

2nd. Add the sugar, butter, milk, salt and nutmeg. 

3rd. Add the flour gradually. 

4th. Add the baking powder. 

Have the oven very hot for the first five minutes; after 
that bake in moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 

Use any kind of icing. 

Rhubarb budding 

In the spring make a batter on above recipe (or on any 
cake recipe). Get young strawberry rhubarb cut into 
inch lengths. Stir two cups of the uncooked rhubarb into 
the batter and bake in moderate oven. 

Serve with any pudding sauce. 



Preparing the Food 109 



Huckleberry Pudding 

Make same as above, using two cups of fresh, uncooked 
huckleberries instead of the rhubarb. 

Shortcake 

Bake a pan of whole wheat muffins (see recipe). Split 
them, butter them. Serve them open on the dessert plate 
with generous serving of berries or sliced peaches on top. 

The fruit should be cut and sugared a half hour before 
serving. 

This is better than any kind of white-flour shortcake. 

Serve hot. 



110 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



SOME UNUSUAL RECIPES 
(To Vary Monotony) 

Chicken Chop Suey 

Take about three cupfuls of left over chicken, cut into 
small pieces, place in frying pan with butter or fat, shake 
or stir over fire until brown. Remove from fire and drain 
off any surplus grease. To this add two cups of celery cut 
into inch pieces, two cups of onions cut small and two cups 
of oriental sprouts. To this add water, not enough to 
cover, but enough to keep moist — season with salt, pepper 
and paprika and let simmer about three hours. Stir occa- 
sionally and add water if needed. When ready to serve 
add oriental sauce if desired — though this is not necessary. 

Cook one cup of brown rice and serve with above. 

If you have not oriental sprouts at hand put three cups 
each of celery and onions (equal parts with quantity of 
meat cooked). 

The above can also be made with other meat than 
chicken. Cut the raw meat into inch squares, brown and 
proceed as above. 

It will also be found easier to put the mixture into a 
shallow dish — set the dish inside of an, old-fashioned steamer 
and steam two to three hours. For this use less water. The 
fireless cooker is ideal for above. 

Celery and Nut Loaf 1 

1 tablespoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls grated onion 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

l tablespoonful grated cheese 
1 Eugene Christian. 



Preparing the Food 111 

2 eggs 

\% cups toasted bread crumbs 
\ l / 2 cups strained tomato 
Y^ cup chopped nuts 
l cup celery chopped fine. 

Add all ingredients to the strained tomato ; mix well and 
last add the stifHy beaten eggs. 

Bake in a well oiled tin about 35 or 40 minutes. 

Serve with cream or parsley sauce. 

This is fine for a meatless meal. 

Corn Roast 1 

1 cup of stewed (or canned) corn 

3 teaspoonfuls of grated onion 
54 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

\ l / 2 cups toasted bread crumbs 
Salt, pepper or paprika. 

Beat the eggs and add milk, corn, salt, pepper, bread 
crumbs and nuts and onion. Mix well and let stand 10 or 
15 minutes, then bake in a well oiled pan 35 or 40 minutes. 

This is fine for a meatless meal. 

Scalloped Salmon 

Make a white sauce as per direction on page 79. To this 
add a well beaten egg and stir until thick. This is sufficient 
for one large can of salmon. Grease a baking dish and put 
a layer of salmon and then a layer of white sauce, then an- 
other layer of salmon and so on. White sauce on top. 
Cover the top with cracker crumbs or rolled bread crumbs 
and bake for 20 to 30 minutes. 

1 Eugene Christian. 



112 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Salmon and Rice 

Cook one cup of brown rice and line well greased baking 
dish. Flake one large can of salmon. Make dressing as 
follows: 

Beat 2 eggs, l / 2 cup of milk, l tablespoonful of butter 
and seasoning. Stir this into the salmon, place in nest of 
rke, cover with a little rice and steam for l hour. If baked, 
casserole must have cover and set (preferably) in pan of 
water in oven. Serve with or without white sauce. 

Salmon Loaf 

Into l small can of salmon stir l well beaten egg, x / 2 cup 
milk and 1 cup crumbs. Season well with salt, pepper and 
paprika. Bake in well buttered dish for fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Any of the above dishes may be made substituting tuna 
fish for salmon. Some people prefer the more delicate flavor 
of the tuna fish. 

Tuna Fish Salad 

Flake the fish arid use about equal part chopped celery. 
Moisten well with boiled dressing which has been thinned 
with lemon juice. Season with salt, pepper and paprika. 

A French dressing made of equal parts oil and lemon 
juice and some chopped sweet peppers may also be used 
with above. 

or 

Serve the tuna fish plain at same meal with an excellent 
combination salad and eat them together. 

Coddled Eggs 

Instead of boiling eggs cook as follows: — Place eggs in 
cold water over fire. When the water reaches boiling point 



Preparing the Food 118 

remove from fire immediately. Leave the eggs in this hot 
water for exactly five minutes. This is the only way that 
eggs should be served to a delicate stomach. The white 
remains creamy and is infinitely more digestible. 

Baked Bananas 

Wash ripe bananas and bake in skins in moderate oven 
for 15 or 20 minutes, until thoroughly soft all through. 
They are done when juice begins to flow. Serve with cream. 

They seem light, but two baked bananas will take th« 
place of a cereal or a potato. They can form the body of a 
breakfast or luncheon. 

They should not be served after an otherwise complete 
meal. We eat too much. 

If preferred they may be baked until soft without skins. 



114 What to Eaf and How to Prepare It 

VEGETABLE TONIC 

(A fine mineral tonic for children — or adults.) 

Get all kinds of fresh vegetables. If in season get the 
young ones with the tops on, fresh and juicy. Get every- 
thing — a bunch or two of carrots and tops, beets and tops, 
turnips and tops, parsnips, onions, spinach, lettuce leaves, 
cabbage leaves, cucumbers, etc. (Never use rhubarb leaves 
— they are poison.) 

Put all through a grinder. (Place a receptacle under the 
grinder. The juices will flow.) 

When chopped put into jelly bag and let drip overnight. 
In the morning press the remaining juices out with a small 
fruit press or any instrument you can contrive. (Will not 
someone devise and put on the market a small hand vege- 
table press?) Keep the juice thus obtained covered and in 
a cool place. Give the children a tablespoonful or a small 
wineglassful every day. 

The value of the above tonic lies in the fact that it 'is 
uncooked and unadulterated. It is, therefore, a concentrated 
vegetable essence rich in both minerals and vitamines. It is 
fine for everybody in the spring — especially to the anemic or 
run down individual. 

Quite a lot of trouble — yes ; but the kiddies are worth it. 

To Steep Bran 

Plac£ contents of a package of bran in a large kettle and 
pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it. Contrive 
some way on your own stove to maintain the heat for 12 
hours — Do not boil. Drain off the liquid. You will need 
to press the bran through a sieve, vegetable press or with 
your hands. 



Preparing the Food 115 

Keep in cool place and use l or 2 glasses per day. 

(Do not imagine that the above is a laxative. It is not. 
The dry bran must be used for that.) The above has min- 
eral value for an acidosis patient. 



116 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

SWEETS FOR THE KIDDIES 

Besides your stock of homemade jams and jellies 
(or when they run low) following are some quick 
marmalades which can be made in winter and which 
are excellent for bread spreads and sandwich fillers. 

In addition to the regular three meals it is a good 
plan to give the children a systematic lunch after 
school. Not much. Perhaps just an apple or two 
cookies or a sweet sandwich or a glass of milk or 
nuts and raisins, etc. And just the amount given 
them. Not a continuous "piecing." If there are 
two or more children, let each child understand 
that his share is just that — no more. Don't weaken 
and you will have no trouble — but succumb to 
coaxing once and your troubles will begin. Chil- 
dren know their power. It rests with you. 

Date and Cranberry Marmalade' 1 
Simmer together for 30 to 40 minutes 1 quart of cran- 
berries and 1 pound of stoned dates in l pint of water with 
2 cups of brown sugar. 

Dried Apricot Conserve 

Soak overnight y 2 pound of apricots in 2 cups of water. 
In the morning add 1 cup of raisins, the juice of 1 lemon; 
1 whole orange sliced thin and cut into small pieces and 1 
cup of honey. Let simmer 1 to 1^2 hours. When almost 
done add ^2 cup cut nuts. If too tart add brown sugar to 
taste. 

Use these marmalades as bread spreads. 

*Tech. Educational Bulletin No. 30. 



Preparing the Food 117 

SWEET SANDWICH FILLERS 

Date Sandwiches 

Put l pound of stoned dates through a meat chopper. 
Add the juice of l orange and rub to a paste. 
Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Date and Fig Sandwiches 

Put a half pound of dates, y, pound of washed figs and 
y pound of almonds (or other nuts) through a meat chop- 
per — add the juice of an orange (or a little warm water) 
and pack the mixture into a half pound baking powder box. 
Dip the box in hot water. Let stand for 10 minutes. Turn 
out the mixture and cut into thin slices. Put a slice of the 
mixture between two thin slices of buttered bread. These 
are better than cookies. 

Walnut Sandwiches 

Mix l cup chopped nuts with y 2 cup boiled dressing 
thinned with cream. Place a thin layer on a lettuce leaf 
between two slices of buttered bread. 

Date Tarts 1 

(For Children's Parties.) 

1st. Make a paste with y pound chopped dates and y 
pound chopped pecans or almonds moistened with a little 
orange juice. 

2nd. Cut thin slices of whole wheat bread and cut same 
into circles or stars. 

3rd. Spread y of these pieces with above paste. 

'Mrs. Rorer. 



118 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

4th. Take the other half of the bread slices and cut 
center holes with a very small biscuit cutter or wine glass 
(not more than \ l / 2 inches across.) Butter these rings, place 
on top of first slices and fill holes with home made jelly or 
jam. 

Plain Whole Wheat Cookies 

]/ 2 cup butter 
1 cup sugar 

1 c gg 

2 tablespoonfuls water 

y 2 level teaspoonful bicarbonate of soda 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

3 cups whole wheat flour. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the egg and beat again 
well. Gradually beat in the sugar, add the soda dissolved 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of water, then the milk and last the 
flour slowly. The quantity of flour may vary a trifle. The 
dough must be quite stiff. Knead until the mixture will 
hold together. Roll very thin, places in well greased pan 
and bake in moderate oven about 7 to 10 minutes. 

Like all whole wheat mixtures this dough is very brittle 
and difficult to roll. When ready to roll, see that your 
board is well dusted with white flour, pat the dough down 
with the hands as well as possible first, and dust the rolling 
pin with flour after each and every sweep. 

Whole Wheat Hermits 

Make dough same as above up to kneading point. Don't 
knead. Add y 2 cup milk or water and 1 cup each of 
chopped raisins and nuts (spices if desired.) Drop from 
spoon (about three inches apart) on well greased pan and 
bake same as cookies. 



Preparing the Food 119 

Whole Wheat Cookies— (Mrs. Wheeler) 

Yz cup of butter 

l cup of brown sugar 

l cup of molasses 

Yi cup chopped nuts and raisins (optional) 

1 level teaspoonful each of salt, cloves, nutmeg, allspice 

and ginger 

2 level teaspoonfuls of soda, dissolved in % cup of hot 

water 
5 cups of whole wheat flour. 

1st. Mix the butter, brown sugar and molasses. 

2nd. Add spices and salt. 

3rd. Add the dissolved soda. 

4th. Add the flour. 

5th. Roll the mixture to J/2 inch thickness ; cut with a bis- 
cuit cutter and bake in a moderate oven. 

Sometimes it is necessary to add 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of 
milk if this mixture is too dry to roll. 



120 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



CANDIES 

Peanut Brittle 

1st. Spread the peanuts singly over the bottom of a well 
buttered pan, dust with a very little salt. 

2nd. Put l cup of granulated (cane) sugar into a smok- 
ing hot frying pan (it must be smoking hot), with no water 
and stir very rapidly until all melted. 

Pour this over the peanuts and let stand until cool and 
crisp. 

Divinity Fudge 

2 cups granulated sugar 

x /2 cup water 

Yz cup honey 

1 cup nuts 

Whites of 2 eggs 

l teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put the sugar, water and honey into saucepan. Stir over 
fire until the sugar is melted, then boil slowly until it 
"hairs" — or forms a hard ball in water. Have the egg 
whites beaten stiff and the moment the sugar mixture "hairs" 
remove from the fire and pour very slowly into the egg 
whites while some one else beats latter constantly. When 
all mixed continue to beat rapidly. The mixture will be- 
come a white froth. It is sufficiently beaten when you can 
feel the grain in your fingers or taste same. The success 
of the candy lies in the beating. It may take ten, fifteen or 
even twenty minutes. It is very stiff and hard to beat 
toward the end. 

Add the vanilla at any time while beating and the nuts 
when it begins to stiffen. 



Preparing the Food 121 

Turn out into well greased platter, let stand until partly- 
cool. Then cut into squares and let stand again. It is best 
after some hours standing. Corn syrup or maple syrup may 
be substituted for honey. 

Pinoche 

l cup brown sugar 

l cup milk (or thin cream) 

l teaspoonful vanilla 

l teaspoonful butter 

Y% to 34 teaspoonful cream of tartar (just a pinch) 

24 cup pecan or walnut meats 

Tiny pinch salt. 

Mix the milk, sugar and cream of tartar, stir over fire 
until sugar is melted. Boil slowly until it "hairs" when 
dropped from spoon (or will form soft ball in cold water). 
Add nuts and remove from fire. Let stand to cool about a 
minute. Beat until it begins to thicken. Then pour at once 
into well greased platter. When cool cut into squares. 

Creamy Fudge 

Shave two squares of chocolate. Pour over this % CU P 
of milk. Stir constantly over fire until melted. Then add 
another }4 CU P °f milk and stir again until perfectly smooth. 
Remove from fire and add 2 cups of granulated sugar, l 
level tablespoonful of butter and l /± cup of corn sirup. 
Stir all over fire until sugar is dissolved. Then boil slowly 
until it will form soft ball in cold water (about 10 minutes). 

Remove from fire, add l teaspoonful of vanilla and beat 
until creamy. Add nuts if desired. 



PART III 
COMBINING THE FOOD: MENUS 



XI 

FOODS FOR MINERAL VALUES AND 
VITAMINES 

First, milk. 

Second, the whole grains. 

Third, the fresh vegetables, edible leaves and 
fruits. 

These three roads lead to health. On the way 
we pick up lime, iron, phosphorus and all organic 
mineral salts; also "fat soluble A" and "water solu- 
ble B and C" — the vitamines. 

MENUS 

The following menus are handed to you as the last step 
in the bridge to your new routine. You have left the 
"Meat and potatoes and (white) bread and butter" dinner 
on the other side of the bridge and are about to start a 
dinner plan which shall consist chiefly of "Whole wheat 
bread, two fresh vegetables and a salad." 

These menus were planned with a judicious balance of 
acids and bases as well as a balance in food values. Their 
chief aim is health. 

A sufficient number and variety of combinations are given 
to start you right. After a while your own ingenuity and 
judgment will add to, and vary them so that monotony 
will be impossible. 

It is a most wise thing for everyone to make a radical 
change in his diet once in a while. Almost everyone eats 

125 



126 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

too much of some one thing. This is especially true of meat. 
Meat is not at all a necessary food. Its only value is pro- 
tein. There is plenty of protein for your needs in your 
other foods. Most people eat meat because they like it — or 
because the habit is formed. Let us modify the habit and, 
for the children anyhow, let us have meat only about twice 
a week. An overload of protein is the cause of much illness. 

At a meat meal not more than one-fourth the quantity of 
food eaten should be meat — and not that much if eaten 
every day. 

One of the reasons why meat is such a generally favorite 
food is because it is so often the only really tasty article 
of food on the table. If as much care were exercised to 
make vegetables or meat substitutes taste good there would 
be less danger of craving or eating too much meat. 

Breakfast and luncheon should both be light meals. 

For these, therefore, a lesser number of suggestions are 
given. The following will suffice: 



Breakfast Menus 
(For the Anemic or Convalescent or Undernourished) 



1. 

Fresh fruit — 2 kinds 
Milk — 4 (y 2 pint) glasses 
Bran — l tablespoonful. 



2. 

Fresh fruit 
Milk — 2 or 3 glasses 
Whole wheat muffin (l) 
Bran (if constipated). 



Combining the Food: Menus 127 



Prunes with cream 

1 coddled egg 

2 or 3 whole wheat muffins 
2 glasses milk. 



Good Breakfasts for All 
I. 



Stewed figs 

Cereal (whole grain), cream 
Whole wheat toast and butter 
Milk — l or 2 glasses. 

2. 
Fresh fruit 
Baked banana (2) 
Milk — 1 or 2 glasses. 

3- 

Fresh fruit 

Whole wheat griddle cakes 

Maple syrup or genuine cane syrup 

Prunes with cream. 

4- 
Fresh fruit 

Cereal (whole grain), cream 

Coddled eggs (1) 

Whole wheat (or corn) muffins. 

Apples may be eaten every morning with just as good 
results as though the fruit varied. Baked bananas are best 
eaten as the body of the meal instead of a muffin and in 
addition to other fruit. When eaten raw they should be 
so ripe that the skin is discolored. 

Change the cereal from morning to morning, remember- 
ing only that it must be prepared from the whole grain — 
thus : 



128 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

1. 

Orange juice 

Brown rice with raisins 
Corn meal gems 
Prunes with cream 
l glass milk. 



2. 
Canteloupe (or fruit in season) 
Whole wheat grain with cream 
5 or 6 figs 
l glass milk. 

3- 

Grapefruit (without sugar) 
Oatmeal with cream 
Whole wheat toast 
l glass milk. 

4- 
Baked apple with cream 

Corn meal or brown rice with cream 

1 egg 

l slice whole wheat toast. 



5- 

Stewed figs or stewed raisins 

Whole wheat and corn meal cakes, butter and maple syrup 

l or 2 glasses of milk. 

In cold weather the milk should be lukewarm. In these 
menus no mention is made of tea or coffee. That is left to 
your own discretion. Children, however, should never have 
either. 



Combining the Food: Menus 129 



Luncheon Menus 

The anemic or person underweight may take for lunch 
another 3 or 4 glasses of milk with fruit and a date muffin 
or whole wheat muffin or baked banana. 

It would be best for the busy man or the girl who works 
if they would order at noon such lunches as: 

1. 

Corn — 1 or 2 ears 

Milk or buttermilk — 1 or 2 glasses 

Fruit. 

2. 
Cream soup 

Whole wheat or corn muffin or rye bread 
Fruit and nuts. 



Corn muffin with butter 
Something green 
Nuts and raisins. 

4- 

Vegetable soup 

Graham wafers 

Fruit or nuts and raisins with cream cheese. 

It sounds like nothing at all until after you have eaten it 

Other Lunches for Children or Adults 

1. 

Baked bananas (2) 

Milk, 1 or 2 glasses 

An apple 

Nuts and cream cheese. 



130 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

2. 

Whole wheat bread and butter 
Fresh spinach or asparagus 
Milk — l or 2 glasses 
Dates and nuts. 

3- 

Corn pone or muffin, butter 
Buttermilk — l or 2 glasses 
Cheese and raisins. 

Any cream soup 

Whole wheat muffins or Johnny cake 

Water cress or lettuce 

Nuts and raisins. 

5- 
Corn on cob ( l ) , butter 

Milk or buttermilk — l or 2 glasses 

Baked bananas ( l ) 

Nuts and raisins. 

6. 

Poached egg 

Toasted whole wheat bread 

Milk or buttermilk 

Fruit. 

For the younger children whole wheat bread and butter 
with honey, a glass of milk and an apple makes an excellent 
luncheon. 

Also a bowl of soup, whole wheat bread and butter and 
an apple. 

Dinner Menus 

Proving how unnecessary is meat in the prepara- 
tion of a delicious meal, following are fourteen full 



Combining the Food: Menus 131 

four course dinners which do not include meat. The 
first seven include the fresh vegetables available in 
spring and summer; the second seven include those 
which are available in the winter. 

To those who eat these meatless menus for the 
first time, it will seem when you start your meal as 
though there were "nothing to eat" — Try it. The 
result will be that you will eat far more plentifully 
of the vegetables and salads than you have hitherto 
done. You will rise from the table satisfied, but 
without the stuffed, uncomfortable feeling; more- 
over you will grow to like these meals. I have seen 
it prove out again and again — even in the case of 
men who had always thought meat was the great 
essential. The meals contain every element you 
need. If after eating one you crave meat it is a sure 
sign that the "appetite" has possession of you. 
This craving will disappear. 

The menus follow : 

Fourteen Meatless Menus 
Spring and Summer 

l. 

Cream of asparagus soup 
Oatmeal crackers — Radishes 



New potatoes turned over in brown butter 
Asparagus. New beets in butter 
Whole wheat bread 



Combination salad — Cheese 
Charlotte russe. 



132 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



2. 
Cream of corn soup 

Whole wheat or oatmeal wafers 
Young onions 

New potatoes in cream 
Green peas — Young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Crisp head lettuce 

Cream cheese and crushed fruit with crackers. 

Cream of spinach soup 

Oatmeal wafers — Green onions or radishes 



New potatoes turned over in brown butter 
Spinach — Young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Carrot and cottage cheese salad — Nuts 
Raspberry ice, made of fresh fruit. 

4- 
Cream of celery soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 

New potatoes — baked 

String beans — Young, very tiny beets, leaves and all 

Whole wheat bread 



Crisp head lettuce or water cress 



High grade gelatine dessert — Nuts. 

5- 

Any of the "Vegetable Stock" soups 
Oatmeal wafers — Radishes or celery 



Combining the Food: Menus 133 

Butter beans — Very tiny beets, tops and all 
Whole wheat bread — Milk 
Combination salad — Nuts 



Peach ice — Made from fresh fruit, or strawberry shortcake. 

6. 

Any cream soup 

Oatmeal or whole wheat wafers — Young onions 

Brown rice (Served as a vegetable with butter) 
Green peas — Young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable (or combination) salad 

Figs and cream cheese 
Fruit. 

7- 

Any cream soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Sliced tomatoes 



Young turnips (steamed and mashed) , 
Corn on cob — Young carrots or young beets 
Whole wheat bread — Milk 



Crisp head lettuce or mixed vegetable salad 
Charlotte russe or noodle custard. 

Fall and Winter 

1. 

Thick bean soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Hubbard squash (steamed and mashed) 
Baked onions 
Whole wheat bread 



134 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Combination salad 
Figs with cream cheese. 



2. 

Vegetable cream soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Scalloped potatoes — Brussels sprouts 
Johnny cake 

Endive or head lettuce — Nuts 

Prune whip. 

3- 

Thick pea soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Scalloped rice — Creamed parsnips 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable salad 
Nuts, raisins and figs. 



Cream of cauliflower 

Oatmeal or whole wheat wafers — Spanish onions 

Stuffed potatoes — Cauliflower — Lima beans 
Whole wheat bread 



Waldorf salad 



Queen of puddings or peach shortcake. 

5- 

Mock oyster soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Stuffed potato — Creamed carrots — Stewed celery 
Johnny cake 



Combining the Food: Menus 135 

Fruit salad 

Nuts and raisins. 

6. 

Vegetable consomme (see "Vegetable stock") 
Oatmeal or whole wheat crackers — Celery 
Corn roast 

Scalloped potatoes — mashed turnips 
Whole wheat bread 



Head lettuce 
Noodle custard. 



Cream of celery soup 

Whole wheat or oatmeal crackers — Celery 

Savoy — Creamed parsnips or carrots 
Home baked beans 
Whole wheat bread 



Fruit salad — Nuts 



Charlotte russe or prune whip. 

You will find several menus without potatoes. Learn to 
plan one or two meals a week without them. 

Seven Menus Including Meat 

Following are seven course dinner menus which include 
meat with a judicious balancing of off -setting (alkaline) 
foods. 

1. 

Chicken soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 

Fricassee of chicken 

Brown rice — Parsnips (turned over in brown butter) 

Whole wheat bread 



136 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Mixed vegetable salad 
Fruit. 



2. 



Cream of spinach soup 
Oatmeal wafers — Celery- 
Roast lamb 

Baked potatoes — Spinach 
Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad 
Raisins and figs. 



Cream of asparagus soup 
Whole wheat crackers — Radishes 



Roast lamb 

Potatoes (steamed in skins, then mashed) 

Fresh asparagus or string beans 

Fruit salad 



Huckleberry pudding or shortcake. 



Thick bean soup 
Oatmeal crackers — Celery- 
Crisp broiled bacon 
Oyster plant — Brussels sprouts 
Whole wheat bread 



Combination salad 
Noodle custard. 



Vegetable consomme (See "Vegetable Stock") 
Whole wheat crackers — Ripe olives 



Combining the Food: Menus 137 

Broiled lamb chops — Baked potatoes — Creamed carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable salad 
Fruit. 



6. 



Fruit cocktail — Celery 

Porterhouse steak (broiled) 

Baked potatoes — String beans or young carrots 

Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad 



Peach ice (made of the fresh fruit). 



Grapefruit cocktail 

Chicken chop suey 
Brown rice — Celery 
Whole wheat bread 

Head lettuce 

Charlotte russe. 



Seven Menus, Including Meat Substitutes 

Following are seven dinner menus which include definite 
meat substitutes. 

l. 

Cream of cauliflower soup 
Oatmeal wafers 



Scrambled eggs 
Scalloped potatoes 
Cauliflower — butter sauce 

Whole wheat bread 



138 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Head lettuce 

Nuts, figs and raisins. 

2. 
Cream of asparagus soup 
Whole wheat crackers — Radishes 



Tuna fish 

New potatoes in cream 
Fresh asparagus 
Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad 

Prune whip. 



3- 
Plain vegetable soup 

Oatmeal wafers — Celery 

Corn roast — Spinach 

Sweet potatoes — Whole wheat bread 

Endive salad 



Figs and cream cheese. 



Vegetable cream soup 
Whole wheat crackers 



Scallops, oysters or fish 
Baked squash — Stewed celery 
Whole wheat bread 



Fruit salad 
Stewed figs. 



5- 

Cream of onion soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Radishes 



Combining the Food: Menus 139 

Broiled white fish 

Baked potatoes — Baked onions 

Whole wheat bread 



Head lettuce 
Prune whip. 



6. 



Pea soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Ripe olives 

Rice with poached eggs (See recipe) 
String beans or young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable salad 
Fruit ice or gelatine dessert. 

Cream of celery soup 
Oatmeal wafers — Radishes 



Scalloped salmon 
Stuffed potatoes 
Young beets in butter sauce 
Whole wheat bread 



Apple and carrot salad 
Charlotte russe. 

Any of the foregoing menus can be used without the soup 
if desired. 

It will be noted, however, that where thick soups are 
served the remainder of the dinner is lighter. 

If, for example, you are fond of bean soup and eat 
plentifully of it you do not need potatoes at the same meal, 
and so on. 



140 What to .Eat and How to Prepare It 

If the entire family are home for luncheon a good way is 
to serve these complete soups at that time and then plan the 
dinner without them. 

Simple Dinner Menus 

Consisting of 
Whole Wheat Bread, Two Fresh Vegetables and a Salad 

There comes the voice of some busy mother who 
says she hasn't time for the making of soups, salads, 
et al., and who wants to hear more about the "Whole 
wheat bread, two fresh vegetables and a salad" plan. 

She may take any of the foregoing menus and 
omit the soup — unless the soup is made for the pur- 
pose of using the juice of the vegetable cooked — in 
that case she must either make the soup or cook the 
vegetable in a casserole or steamer, or in its own 
juice. 

For the simpler menus on the above plan there is 
always your whole wheat bread or muffins, varied 
by corn muffins or johnny cake and in the spring 
such combinations as new potatoes, . young carrots 
and peas, and head lettuce (always with a little 
chopped spinach and nuts or perhaps some ground 
raw carrots). And again — Asparagus and beets and 
combination salad, etc., down through the list. And 
after all it doesn't take long to make asparagus or 
spinach soup; and on a hot day a fruit cocktail is 
very refreshing. Moreover these things cost less 
than meat. In the winter there is the combination 
of parsnips and brussels sprouts, or carrots and 



Combining the Food: Menus 141 

cauliflower with the same combination, or mixed 
vegetable or fruit salads of which we never tire, 
plus a bit of cheese in some combination which you 
like — and don't forget the nuts and raisins. 

Always in planning your "two fresh vegetables" 
have one which is a root and one which is not — 
thus : Carrots and parsnips being both roots do not 
make as good a combination as carrots and asparagus 
or parsnips and cauliflower. 

Following are one dozen of these simple menus 
within the reach of all. 

Spring and Summer 

l. 

Scalloped potatoes 

Baked onions 

Beet tops (or any greens) 

Sliced tomatoes 

Corn muffins — Milk 

Prune whip. 

2. 
New potatoes 

Asparagus (with butter sauce) 
Young carrots (casserole) 
Head lettuce — Young onions 
Whole wheat bread 
Cream cheese 
Nuts and raisins. 

3- 

Young carrots 

Spinach (creamed or in a casserole) 
Celery 



142 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad 

Custard or figs and cream cheese. 



Lima beans 
Young carrots 
Greens — any kind 
Whole wheat bread 
Fruit salad 
Nuts and raisins. 

Scalloped rice 
Young beet tops 
Young carrots 
Any green salad 
Whole wheat bread 
Noodle custard. 



6. 



Young carrots or turnips 

New peas 

Corn on cob 

Whole wheat bread 

Carrot and cottage cheese salad 

Shortcake. 



Fall and Winter 
1. 



Corn roast 
Sweet potatoes 
Cauliflower in cream 
Whole wheat bread 
Head lettuce — Celery 
Figs and cream cheese. 



Combining the Food: Menus 148 

2. 
Baked potatoes 
Baked onions 
Creamed codfish 
Whole wheat bread 
Lettuce and tomato salad 
Stewed figs or any fruit sauce. 



6' 

Potatoes au gratin 

Brussels sprouts 
Creamed parsnips 
Whole wheat muffins 
Any green salad 
Cup custard. 

4- 
Sweet potatoes (with butter) 
Corn (in a casserole) 
Ripe olives 
Celery 
Johnny cake 

Carrot and cottage cheese salad 
Queen of puddings. 

Cauliflower au gratin 
Creamed parsnips 
Whole wheat bread 
Combination salad 
Nuts, raisins and figs. 



6. 



Creamed turnips 
Home baked beans 
Celery — Ripe olives 
Corn muffins 



144 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Fruit and nut salad 
Baked apple. 

Or simpler still: 
x Carrots and peas 
Whole wheat bread and butter 
Combination salad 
Cream cheese 
Nuts and raisins. 

Young turnips and asparagus 
Whole wheat muffins 
Lettuce and tomatoes 
Cream cheese 
Nuts and raisins. 

Eat plenty of the latter combinations and it is all you 
need. 

Now and then it is a good thing to leave out both bread 
and potatoes — thus having a starchless meal. At such a 
meal have a good fish or chicken, etc., thus : — 

White fish *• 

Ripe olives 

Young carrots 

Green peas 

Corn on cob 

Combination salad 

Charlotte russe. 

Chicken 

Celery 

Parsnips 

Brussels sprouts — or savoy 

Buttered beets 

Head lettuce (mayonnaise) 

Prune whip. 



Combining the Food: Menus 145 



ARE YOU OVERWEIGHT? 

There comes the voice of the overweight person 
who says : "What about me? I can't eat those kind 
of meals." 

Oh yes you can. These "Two fresh vegetables 
and a salad" meals are just what you need. 

Make your cream soups of skimmed milk and 
vegetable juice. Never eat a potato unless it is 
baked and never eat any kind of bread except whole 
wheat. There's a reason for this latter advice. 
Starch piles up fat. Boiled potatoes and white 
bread are pure starch. In their natural state pota- 
toes and wheat are mineral laden and therefore al- 
kaline. Your blood needs this mineral content of 
these foods to assist in the burning of the starch. 
Starch which is properly burned in the body is 
turned first into sugar, then into its corresponding 
acids and gases and is then carried off by the kid- 
neys and lungs. Starch which is not burned is 
turned into sugar — then fat. 

If you wish to reduce, eliminate the starches for 
a few days. When you get starch hungry eat a 
baked potato with your dinner. Never eat both 
bread and potato at the same meal. 

You may have lean lamp chops or roast lamb or 
chicken or fish — a very little at a time. You may 
even have milk at your breakfasts and lunches — but 



146 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

use skimmed milk. All the minerals are in the 
skimmed milk — the fat is in the cream. 

Begin a systematic cutting down of the starches 
and increasing of mineral laden foods in your diet. 
"Two fresh vegetables and a salad" makes a splen- 
did guide, plus the necessary protein. You will get 
this from your whole wheat and (skim) milk. 

Do not use mayonnaise nor oil on your salads. 
Use a boiled dressing sparingly. (You can make a 
boiled dressing without flour.) Never use vinegar. 
Lemon juice instead. Eat plenty of fruit. 

Go through the menus and select and change same 
for yourself on this plan. 

Gradually eat a little less no matter how little 
you think you have been eating. 

Remember your bread must be whole wheat. It 
is the starches without the mineral balance which 
do the damage. White bread does not nourish you 
but it does fatten you — eliminate it entirely. 

Breakfasts and luncheons of skim-milk and fruit 
without sugar are the best thing in the world for 
you. (To this combination add no other food.} 
You will be sufficiently nourished and from these 
mineral laden foods your blood will gradually re- 
gain its alkaline element. As the blood becomes 
alkaline it will regain the power to burn the starch- 
sugars. Too much fat is one of the surest evidences 
of mineral starvation. 

On the above system of diet you will not only 
feel better but you will gradually lose the super- 
fluous fat. 



Combining the Food: Menus 147 



A WORD ABOUT APPETITES 

Hunger is the natural desire for food. It is pres- 
ent when the body needs nourishment. It is not a 
gnawing in the stomach. When hungry the saliva 
will flow into the mouth at the thought of food — 
any food. 

The gnawing in the stomach is the result of wrong 
eating. The best way to cure this is to make a com- 
plete change in your diet. 

Appetite is the cultivated desire for certain (so- 
called) foods. The more it is satisfied, the greater 
it becomes. The more you season your foods with 
highly spiced condiments, the more you will want 
to. Highly seasoned foods destroy the taste for 
finer flavors and natural foods. "Teach your palate 
to be a food artist and not a slave to salt and grease." 

When one can get a rich, creamy mayonnaise why 
spoil the food value of a delicious salad with a 
highly spiced mixture, with its burning cayenne and 
puckering acid (nicknamed vinegar) ? 

The more you satisfy your craving for meat (or 
any certain food) the greater will that craving be- 
come. The woman with the tea habit or candy habit 
is no different than the drunkard. 

The individual who is "always hungry" — who has 
a dissatisfied feeling after a meal and is always ready 
to eat again is on the wrong road. He should stop. 



148 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Eat nothing but fruit for two or three days and then 
make a radical change in his diet. 

Cultivate a taste for delicate flavors and the 
things which are good for you. Invalids do this 
and often wonder why they didn't do it sooner. 
Often also they acquire a distaste for the strong 
(injurious) foods. Why wait until you are ill*? 

Don't you like roast beef or lamb or steak 1 ? If 
you don't — why eat them at all? If you do, why 
disguise the flavor with Worcestershire sauce or 
other highly seasoned condiments'? 

Why not eat the roast lamb and enjoy that% 



Combining the Food: Menus 149 



"DON'TS" FOR THE CHILDREN 

Don't give children fried potatoes. 

Don't give them pickled beets. 

(Teach them to enjoy the more delicate flavor of 
beets with butter sauce.) 

Don't give them vinegar on salads nor on any 
vegetable. 

Don't give them condiments. 

Don't put sugar on their grapefruit — or any fruit. 

Don't give them pie crust. 

Don't give them milk and meat at the same meal. 

Don't force a child to eat what he really dislikes 
— cultivate his taste along sane lines — You can. 



PART IV 
OBSTACLES AND SUCCESSES 



XII 
UNDERFED CHILDREN 

In Detroit at the present time there is much talk 
about the malnutrition among school children. In 
New York the same condition was found several 
years ago. The condition is not confined to Detroit 
nor New York. It is a National evil. Why should 
it exist*? 

The Department of Health in Detroit, after mak- 
ing the tests, announced that the percentage of 
underfed children in some districts was as high as 
20 per cent, and further stated that the greatest 
number of underfed children lay, not among the 
poor, but among the children of the well-to-do. 

When the doctors were asked to explain why this 
condition should exist they were unable to answer. 
One theory advanced was that wealthy parents were 
prone to be lazy in the morning, and that the chil- 
dren through fear of being late rushed off to school 
with scant breakfast or with a cold, uncooked break- 
fast food. 

Earnest, solicitous mothers resented this theory 
and its inconsistency is evident when we realize that 
the most delicate children are nearly always the re- 
cipients of the most solicitous care. 

153 



154 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Mothers — you who know : call out in the loudest 
voice you can command to every other mother who 
doesn't know : — 

"Delicate children can be made sturdy if 
their food contains the blood-building ele- 
MENTS." 

And these blood-building elements are found — 
not in the fancy, highly advertised package — but in 
the plainest of foods in their natural state. 

Give these delicate children whole wheat bread, 
milk (about a quart a day) and plenty of fruit for 
six months and watch them thrive. Add to this if 
you wish some whole grains in the morning and one 
or two vegetables at dinner and the children need 
nothing else — unless some sweets in the form of 
honey, raisins and dates. (See page 104.) 

There comes the voice of some indulgent mother 
who asserts that Jane is "very fond" of certain 
foods (possibly the injurious ones) or that she 
"won't eat" something else. 

Perhaps you haven't thought of the fact that 
children's appetites are formed by what they are 
fed (though they will naturally like some things 
better than others). The baby who is gradually 
weaning will eat her prunes, her sifted carrots, her 
sifted spinach, her (ground) breakfast wheat and 
will love them, even if she does show extra glee when 
given a little honey. 

Take that same baby and give her a mixture of 
flavors — humor her by giving her her dessert or some 



Underfed Children 155 

jelly before her meal and she will push her wheat 
away and raise a rumpus. It rests with you. Begin 
at this stage to cultivate the child's taste for right 
foods. She learns to like what she eats. 

Repetition is habit. All habits, good and bad, 
are formed by repetition. Abnormal appetites are 
formed in the same way. (The candy fiend is an 
example.) If a child has an abnormal appetite for 
chili-sauce, pickles, meat or strong food it is because 
she has already had too much of these foods. Her 
taste for fine flavors has been perverted. 

To correct this and form the new habit — do not 
scold nor coax nor bribe. Simply put the food 
which is good for her on her plate. If she refuses 
to eat it let the matter pass without comment. Don't 
try to force her but don't give her the other food. 
If she eats little at that meal see that an apple or 
any fruit is within her reach if she should want it. 
(It is far better for her to eat nothing at all than to 
eat wrongly.) Keep this up — the right food will 
taste good when she is hungry. Disguise it if you 
wish. A date muffin may start the good work. The 
one thing she must eat is whole wheat bread. She 
may choose her vegetables and fruits and if she is 
fond of meat she may have a small piece twice a 
week. (For sweets — see page 116.) If she is pretty 
badly spoiled as to her diet it*may be necessary for 
the entire family to try some of the simple menus 
on the preceding pages. It will pay. 

Don't force a child to eat what he really dis- 



156 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

likes — but cultivate his taste along sane lines. 
You can. 

Keep a list of 100 per cent foods to which he takes 
kindly. Let them appear on the table often. Chil- 
dren do not tire of the same foods nor the same 
stories. 

Apropos of what a correct diet will do for 
children, let me give you one illustration. 

Mrs. M. is the mother of three children, the eldest 
is ten, the youngest three. Her brother is an osteo- 
path practicing in Boston whose hobby is diet. He 
knows the value of whole grains and milk and gave 
to his sister a few peremptory rules — Result: 
Those children have never known a single day's 
illness. 

Asked what she did, she replied: "Nothing much 
— they have all the milk they want and they have 
never seen a piece of white bread in the house." 

The children have fruit, cereal (whole grain), 
milk and bread for breakfast. For lunch — usually 
a soup — or bread and milk — or bread and honey 
with more fruit. For dinner, a mixture of vege- 
tables. One of the children is overfond of meat 
and has to be curbed. The family have meat two 
or three times a week. There is always a supply of 
granulated honey and the home-made cookies, etc., 
which children love. 

One day her little girl came in with the horrified 
statement : "Mamma, I know a little girl who eats 
pickles !" 



Underfed Children 157 

That conveys some idea of how perfectly the 
system works. 

With the corner candy store she had her troubles. 
Finally she elicited the promise that they (includ- 
ing the father) would not buy candy provided they 
could have all the nuts, raisins and dates they 
wanted once a day — after school. 

Both Mr. and Mrs. M. are musicians — hence have 
not climbed the ladder of wealth. She keeps no 
maid and she hates housework with a deadly hatred. 
(Did you ever see an artist who didn't"?) In spite 
of this, however, twice a week her own tapering 
white hands make the whole wheat bread on which 
her children thrive. 

Don't forget that these children are exposed to 
the same germs and epidemics to which her neigh- 
bors' children succumb, but their resistance is per- 
fect. Moreover, the eldest child was handicapped 
at birth and through the first year of her life. It was 
not until the mixed diet was possible that she began 
to thrive. 

It is quite worth thinking about. 



XIII 
THE GIRL WHO WORKS 

Are you a girl who works, and — worse still — who 
rooms and eats in restaurants? 

The problem is a harder one for you. To talk 
of whole grains, food values, mineral salts and vita- 
mines and to be obliged to order your food in the 
average eating house is a joke. 

Let us see if we can't work it out. Your break- 
fast and lunch will be easy enough. 

For your breakfast — Milk and fruit. I do not 
say this because it is easy to manage, but because it 
is the best thing for you. (Read the chapter on the 
Semi-milk Diet.) Now and then some breakfast 
grains, if you can manage the cooking of the whole 
grain. With this you will be well nourished. You 
can't say that of the average breakfast of toast and 
coffee. 

For your lunches — Milk and fruit or just fruit 
or whole wheat bread with something green ; or any 
of the light lunches suggested in the Menu Section. 

The problem lies in managing your dinners. If 
you cannot get access to a kitchenette or a gas plate, 
buy an electric grill. They are made with two anc? 
three compartments so that two or three things can 
b? cooked at the same time. They cost twelve to 

158 



The Girl Who Works 159 

fifteen dollars. That is a lot of money, but you can 
save the cost of one in a short time by the difference 
in the cost of your meals, besides having what you 
want to eat. Perhaps two or three of you could 
share the cost of one and eat at some central point. 
(That's fine.) If not, then buy one on the install- 
ment plan and pay for it with the money you don't 
give the restaurant. Imagine going to the market 
and having for your dinner tonight fresh asparagus 
(or green peas) and tender young carrots and crisp 
head lettuce with olive oil and whole wheat bread 
and butter. You have no idea what this kind of 
food will mean to you and how soon you will won- 
der how you ever got along on chops and greasy fried 
potatoes. If you can also get a fireless cooker it will 
mean a great deal to you. 

The one thing you can't manage on your grill is a 
baked potato. Slice them and boil in as little water 
as possible — don't drain — let the water boil into 
them, then add a little milk or when the water has 
boiled quite well down, add a generous piece of but- 
ter and keep turning them until deliciously flavored. 
Don't fry. 

Now and then you can cook a real lamb chop or 
even a spring chicken and even then your meals 
won't cost you what they do at the restaurant. 

Perhaps your landlady will object. This stum- 
bling block will be met sometimes. But if you are 
scrupulously neat you can almost always get con- 
sideration for the sake of your health. I am not 



160 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

talking impossibilities. These suggestions are prao 
tical. I have had the experience, having been with 
out money and without a home. 

Your biggest problem will be your whole wheat 
bread. (See "Bread" p. 47.) But if you value 
your health be sure to get it. Find a McFadden's 
Physical Culture Restaurant and buy it there or find 
eome housewife who will bake it for you. Promise 
her a list of customers and keep your word. The 
bread is the most important of all. 

At one of the leading battery depots in Detroit 
there are employed about eight or ten girls and twice 
as many young men. They have made an agreeable 
arrangement whereby they share both the cost and 
the work and have light nutritious lunches at noon. 
Five of those girls are rooming. They have now 
started getting their dinners there on the "Whole 
wheat bread, two green vegetables and a salad" 
plan taking their turns in preparing the meal. 
They eat promptly at 5:45, get through early and 
never wash the dishes at night. That part is the 
bugbear. The superintendent is very human, ap- 
proves of the plan and doesn't object to their taking 
care of that part in the morning. He believes that 
they work better, and I think he is right. 

Start a similar plan for yourself. 



XIV 
MARGARET'S THYROID 

I know a little girl who works — a stenographer, — 
one of the dearest little girls I know — the personifi- 
cation of straightforward, unaffected sweetness. A 
rarity nowadays. 

She has abounding, radiant health and therefore 
thinks my food hints are jokes. She loves to be 
naughty about it. 

She is twenty years old, was raised in the country; 
has molasses candy hair, pink cheeks, a creamy skin 
and eyes that dance when she looks at you. 

Whenever I see her with one hand behind her and 
her eyes unusually asparkle I know that the hidden 
hand holds a bag of chocolates or French pastry or 
some such. 

One day about a month ago she happened to be 
sitting at the correct angle between me and the 
light. 

"Margaret," I said, "come here a minute." 

I put my hand critically up to her throat. 

Instantly both her own hands covered it and a 
startled look came into her eyes. 

"I know," she said, "it's a goitre, but it isn't very 
big." 

161 



162 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

"Oh, my dear," I pleaded. "Iodine in your food 
— iodine, iodine in your food." 

Of course she laughed — her merry little bubble — 
and that was all that day. 

Three days later she came to me of her own 
accord and with her eyes very serious for once : — 

"Say, Lady dear," she said, "where can I get the 
iodine?' 

"Chiefly in whole grains and green things." 

"But I don't like that whole wheat stuff." 

"Margaret, dear, you'll grow to like it. It's just 
a matter of habit. You'll grow to dislike white 
bread." 

She looked dubious. 

"Anyhow," I pressed. "Couldn't you eat a table- 
spoonful of whole wheat or brown rice every morn- 
ing for the sake of your throat?" 

"Ye-es, I suppose I could. What else 1 ?" 

"Do you really want to try*?" 

She nodded. 

"Well then," I said, "the poor little thyroid has 
been starving for iodine for a long time. Therefore 
the first thing you must do is to gather together all 
the iodine bearing plants you can think of and make 
a tonic which you will take every day for months." 
"How?' 

"Well, spring is just here — go to the market and 
get the green leaves of all the vegetables (except 
rhubarb. Never use rhubarb leaves. They are 
poison.) Get beets, turnips, carrots, young cab- 



Margaret's Thyroid 163 

bage leaves, spinach, lettuce, celery, onions — every- 
thing. (Use some of the carrots too.) Cut them 
up (they occupy less space) and stuff a kettle full 
of them. Pour on hot water and let simmer three 
or four hours. As the heat shrinks the mixture, add 
the rest of the leaves. Get them all in. Drain off 
the liquor — you should have at least a quart — pos- 
sibly more. Take a small cup of this every morning 
and evening. Also steep some bran and take that 
once a day." 

"Is that all?" 

"No — that's your tonic to make up for starving 
the thyroid. For your breakfasts eat the whole 
grains — as much as you can — whole wheat bread 
and fruit. 

"For your lunches bring some whole wheat bread 
and get green things — watercress, celery, lettuce, 
radishes — or if you are home fresh peas or an ear of 
corn. Or just eat fruit and nuts and raisins for 
lunch. 

"For dinners whole wheat bread, two fresh vege- 
tables and a salad as the folks are doing now. 

"And, oh yes, try to work in some unpearled bar- 
ley in soups." 

She made a grimace. 

"You see, dear," I added, "none of the minerals 
come singly. They come together in vegetables, 
fruits and grains. But the most iodine comes in the 
green things and the whole grains carry a full 
supply." 



164 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Ten days later she twinkled up at me saying: 
"I'll have to 'fess up — I'm beginning to like the 
whole wheat bread." 

Of course she cheats a little now and then — for 
one thing she is a nibbler. Somewhere on her desk 
at all times you'll find a box of cherries or a package 
of raisins. I look the other way. If she must nibble, 
she can't go far wrong on fruit and raisins. 

I wish it were six months later so that I might be 
able to tell you how her tonic and diet worked out. 
But one thing is certain: Her goitre can't grow 
any bigger. Not on that diet. 

Just for the interest of you girls who work I want 
to say that Margaret is one of three sisters who work 
and who keep house together in a dear little flat. 
They take their turns at being housekeeper for a 
week. There is perfect harmony between them and 
they have a lot of pleasure in their little home. 

They buy their whole wheat bread most of the 
time at McFadden's. Once in a while they get am- 
bitious and make a batch of bread and always once 
or twice a week a pan of muffins or biscuits. 

Yes, it is hard — but not any harder than cooking 
pork-chops and fried potatoes, and not half so hard 
as trying to exist on a restaurant diet* 



XV 

THE GENUINE "MILK CURE" 

To take the genuine "Milk Diet" as it should be 
taken and to persist in it through a period of six to 
ten weeks requires courage, will power and perse- 
verance. 

The value of such a course cannot be overesti- 
mated to the person suffering from anemia, nervous 
exhaustion, emaciation, general breakdown, chronic 
ills, etc. It will positively cure ulceration of the 
stomach, diseases of the intestinal tract, abnormal 
appetites — even alcoholism. Almost any case of 
chronic misery can be permanently helped by it. 

There are scattered over the country various sani- 
tariums where the milk cure is given scientifically. 
The writer attended one of these on one occasion for 
six weeks with wonderfully beneficial results; and 
afterwards (having learned how) took the course 
right at home with equally good results and without 
even the attendance of a physician. 

It is useless to attempt the course at all unless 
you obey every rule and are willing to tolerate some 
discomfort. It is a heroic measure and it is only 
those who have suffered much who are willing to 
go through with it, with the promise of restored 
health as their goal. 

165 



166 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

The general rule is six quarts of milk a day (with 
no other food) for six weeks. In extreme cases the 
length of time is extended to eight, ten and twelve 
weeks. If six quarts causes a looseness of the bowels 
the quantity is reduced to five. But six is the aver* 
age, and must not be changed by caprice. The 
average person is severely constipated by less than 
six quarts. The more milk the looser the bowels. 
Obey Rule 4 and stick to six quarts. 

The directions follow: — 

It is best to stay right at home and rest. It is 
assumed that you are sick enough to do that. If you 
wish to gain in weight, stay right in bed. Nature is 
very busy taking care of six quarts of milk per day. 
There is no energy to waste. 

1st. Twenty-four hours before starting on the 
milk take a dose of castor oil. 

2nd. For one day eat fruit only — all you want, 
and any kind except bananas. No other food. 

3rd. On the second day start at once on the six 
quarts a day. (Don't begin on a less quantity and 
work up.) A one-half pint glass of milk every half 
hour from seven in the morning till seven at night. 

4th. An enema (about two quarts of water) 
every night. 

5th. A quick hot bath every night. 

It is.a process of elimination as well as rebuilding. 
After ten days or two weeks you will begin to sweat. 
Possibly three or four spells every night. Then the 
real benefit begins. 



The Genuine "Milk Cure" 167 

After every glass of milk take a few drops of 
lemon juice or a little grapefruit. Milk must curdle 
before digestion takes place. The lemon juice as- 
sists this. 

Drink the milk slowly, sip it. Some people take 
it through a straw. 

Here's where your courage is needed. The first 
few days the milk may nauseate you. If so take a 
little lime water or (preferably) increase the quan- 
tity of lemon juice. This will pass away when your 
system gets clear of its poisons. Stick to your six 
quarts. 

Most people get along all right for the first two 
or three weeks. You will not feel hungry — you are 
well nourished. But about the fourth week you will 
begin to feel bloated and uncomfortable. You may 
even have a smothered feeling and palpitation of 
the heart. Don't worry. In spite of the discomfort 
there will be ultimate benefit. Use your will power 
and stick to the six quarts. 

Just as much care must be exercised in coming off 
the milk diet as in going on. You cannot go back on 
a mixed diet immediately. The first day eat fruit 
only and two or three quarts of milk. The second 
day take a quart of milk and fruit (without sugar) 
for breakfast and another quart and fruit for lunch. 
For dinner (preferably in middle of day), eat only 
one kind of food. No mixtures. You may have 
whole wheat bread and fricasseed chicken, all you 
want, or whole wheat bread and spinach, or a baked 



168 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

potato with celery, etc. The second day you may 
add one article (a parsnip or carrot or celery with 
the chicken), etc. It is best to keep up the milk 
for the two meals for a week or two and for break- 
fast for some time. 

You may add a whole wheat muffin or some whole 
wheat breakfast grain to the milk and fruit if you 
wish — but under no circumstances eat white bread 
or crackers or any patented "cereal." 

The trouble which ensues from this combination is 
not the fault of the fruit (without sugar) as is gen- 
erally supposed. It is the starch which causes the 
trouble. 

Immediately after coming off the milk diet you do 
not feel especially strong. After about a week you 
begin to feel like a new person. All the poisons 
have been eliminated from your body. The milk 
has made new blood which has been busy every min- 
ute rebuilding your tissues, and carrying off dead 
tissues thus fortifying your body against disease. 

Don't go back on your old mistaken diet. Study 
the Science of Eating and live accordingly. Plenty 
of green things — and raisins. You will want iron. 

The benefits of the milk cure are far-reaching. I 
knew a case of neuralgia of the optic nerve which 
had resisted all medical treatment for three years, 
cured in ten weeks, the emaciated patient gaining 
thirty-five pounds. 

An osteopathic treatment once or twice a week 
while taking the milk is beneficial. 



XVI 
SEMI-MILK DIET 

There are those to whom the taking of the genu- 
ine milk cure is an impossibility. There are others 
to whom it is not a necessity, but for whom a par- 
tial milk diet would do much. 

To start drinking milk in a haphazard way, mix- 
ing it indiscriminately with your other foods will 
not do for you what it might do taken intelligently 
and regularly. 

If you are run down, anemic, nervously ex- 
hausted, susceptible to colds, convalescent or merely 
underweight try the following for two months or 
longer. Everyone I know of who has done it faith- 
fully has gained at least ten pounds and felt infi- 
nitely better. 

1st. Prepare as for the genuine milk diet — 
obeying faithfully Rules l and 2. 

2nd. For breakfast a quart of milk and fruit 
(without sugar) and a tablespoonful of bran. 

3rd. For lunch — another quart of milk with 
more fruit, or an ear of corn or two baked bananas. 
(Fruit is best.) If in fairly good health you may 
also have a whole wheat muffin. But no white bread 
or crackers or refined cereal, or meat or potatoes. 

169 



170 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

4th. For dinner: Any sane mixture. (Consult 
the preceding pages.) The combination which will 
give excellent results is: Whole wheat bread with 
plenty of butter, two fresh vegetables and a salad. 

The whole wheat bread contains all the protein 
which your body needs. There is also, in this sim- 
ple mixture a balance of fats, carbohydrates and 
mineral salts. 

Most of us have eaten too much and too care- 
lessly. "Food Values" was an unknown quantity. 
On this semi-milk diet your eyes and complexion will 
clear, your step will quicken and there will be a per- 
ceptible gain in weight after the second week. The 
first few days you may not feel right — but this will 
pass away in less than a week. 

One thing: The taking of a quart of milk at one 
meal sounds like a great deal to the uninitiated. 
Less than that will not do. Take it if necessary in 
two sittings. Upon rising take at once a pint of milk 
and your fruit — then dress for the day and take the 
other pint with your bran. The bran is necessary 
to prevent constipation. (Also, we might add, one 
or two glasses of milk are constipating; three or four 
are laxative.) Under no circumstances take a ca- 
thartic. An enema if necessary the first couple of 
nights, and an enema once a week all through the 
course. 

When you have finished the semi-milk diet — eat 
sanely. It would be well to continue the milk 



Semi-Milk Diet 171 

(three or four glasses) and fruits (without sugar) 
for one meal a day indefinitely. 

The writer knew a young man who was discharged 
from the army because of ulceration of the stomach 
(caused from inhaling smoke). He was put on a 
straight milk diet — but not in quantities, neither did 
he stay at home. As an auto salesman he was very 
active. He drank a glass of milk about every two 
hours, whenever he felt the need. At a restaurant — 
anywhere. He ate nothing else and lost all desire 
for other food. He made the mistake of going back 
on a mixed diet too soon and was obliged to go back 
on the milk. He kept it up for over a year, gained 
in weight and pep and was thoroughly cured. Per- 
sistence did it. 

Haphazard, intermittent, slipshod methods will 
never accomplish anything. 



XVII 
THE PERSONAL APPLICATION 

One thing which always seems hard to under- 
stand is how some people read a book — any book — 
become enthused over its contents and yet fail ab- 
solutely to get the personal application. 

I have in mind the case of a relative, a man about 
fifty, corpulent, overfed. He has achieved success 
and now like many others is spending his time and 
his money trying to find the road back to health. 

I had learned that he was ill and the nature of 
his illness and had sent him a copy of "The Science 
of Eating." 

Two weeks later I went to see him. 

There he sat, his foot propped up on a chair, his 
joints swollen and aching, his face pasty, his eyes 
pathetic in their dull misery. 

Almost immediately he began to enthuse about the 
book I had sent him. 

"That's great stuff !" he said. "That fellow knows 
what he's talking about." 

"The most convincing book I ever read," I replied. 

"Oh, he's got the dope right — and he's got the 
proofs," he answered. 

After a while I said to him : "What are you doing 
for yourself, John?" 

172 



The Personal Application 173 

"Doing?" he answered. "What is there to do? 
I've been here now for over two months. I've had 
three doctors on the job and I've taken a gallon of 
dope — but I can't see that I'm a d bit better." 

"It looks to me like a result of acidosis," I said. 

"Yep — that's what Doc says — too much acid in 
my system." 

"Did he say anything as to the cause of the acid?" 

He shook his head. 

"What are you eating?" 

By this time his wife had come in — prim, precise, 
smugly confident, unassailable in her household 
methods. She answered for him. 

"The doctor says to eliminate red meats and to 
give him plenty of fresh vegetables." 

"Well, for instance," I said, "what did you eat 
for dinner?" 

"Let's see," he answered. "I'm a pretty good 
eater, you know. I had my own share of roast lamb, 
some mashed potato, some cauliflower, a dab of jelly 
and a piece of celery." 

"Any bread?" 

"Yep, a couple of pieces of bread and a piece of 
Annie's cake." 

"John," I said. "Have you any brains?" 

"Some," he grinned. "Why?" 

"What's the use of reading a lot of facts and rec- 
ognizing them as facts if you don't apply them?" 

"What's the use of having a doctor if he 
don't " 



174 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

"Yes, John, but he hasn't. Now use your own 
brains for a minute and listen to me. You have 
just finished reading 'The Science of Eating,' then 
you know the story of the one hundred and ten 
sick sailors on board the steamship Kronprinz 
Wilhelm." 

He nodded. 

"What made those sailors sick 1 ? It was proven 
beyond a question of doubt that their food was the 
cause. And what had they eaten ? Meat, potatoes 
and white bread; meat, potatoes and white bread 
over and over for nine months with some canned 
vegetables thrown in for good measure. 

"All that stuff is acid- forming and when their 
bodies were sufficiently saturated with acid they col- 
lapsed. Now, John, what is the difference between 
the sickness of these men and your own trouble? 
Perhaps there is some difference in the symptoms, 
but the cause is acidosis, isn't it*?'* 

He agreed. 

"And the only difference between your collapse 
and theirs is that yours was slower in coming about. 
Call it rheumatism or nervous breakdown or any- 
thing you like — it is acidosis just the same — caused 
by your acid foods, — meat, boiled potatoes and 
white bread. You gave yourself a dab of cauliflower 
and celery and fruit and so on all through the years. 
That gave you some mineral salts but not enough. 
Your acid foods always predominated and so the 
acids gradually piled up in your body until the small 



The Personal Application 175 

amount of off-setting foods which you ate was as 
nothing compared to it." 

"I don't think I quite 'get you.' " 

I repeated the illustration of the Soda and Cream 
of Tartar explaining that one was an alkali, the 
other an acid (see p. 18) and then went on: 

"You see, John, some of your foods form acids 
and others form alkalis (or bases) in your body, and 
there must be enough bases to neutralize the acids. 
The sailors on the Kronprinz Wilhelm didn't get 
any bases and they collapsed in nine months. 
You've always been pretty lucky in getting the off- 
setting foods so it took you forty years to go to 
smash. But, John, every time you had a severe cold, 
or a sore throat, or the grippe, or any of those things 
the cause was the same. Too much acid, broken 
down tissue, no resistance." 

Here his wife interrupted to say: 

"But everybody has always eaten meat and po- 
tatoes and bread and butter." 

"No they haven't, Annie, not white bread. 
(Those who have are showing the results.) Forty 
years ago the present milling processes were not in 
existence. It is the present generation which is suf- 
fering the consequences of white flour. Why, Annie, 
if the people knew and would cut out white flour 
products alone and go back to whole wheat it would 
be comparatively easy to get a balanced diet without 
thinking much about it." 

While his wife and I discussed the value of whole 



176 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

grains and steamed vegetables and the "why" of.it 
all, John had picked up "The Science of Eating" 
and was glancing through it. 

"Well," he broke in. "You evidently have been 
thinking about this stuff some. Suppose you had a 
dose like mine, what would you do 1 ?" 

"Do?" I said. "I'd turn to page 206 of that book 
you're looking at and I would take exactly the pre- 
scription which Mr. McCann gave the sick sailors 
on board the Kronprinz Wilhelm." 

He looked blank. 

"Can't you see, John'?" I proceeded. "Those 
sailors' bodies were overloaded with acid, so is yours. 
In order to neutralize that acid you must get your 
body saturated with alkalies, as found in nature. 
Mr. McCann wanted those sailors to get these alka- 
lies faster than they could eat them, so he gave them 
in solution. Why shouldn't you do the same thing"? 
Forty-seven of those men were on their feet in ten 
days ! You won't respond so quickly. Your trouble 
came on more slowly and insidiously. But it is the 
logical answer just the same." 

"I believe you're right," he said in a tone of de- 
cision after a few minutes of pondering. 

"Of course !" I said. "It's logical. And I'd say 
the same thing to anyone who had a heavy cold, or 
any other of the lesser effects of acidosis. The 
mineral salts (or alkalies) as found in natural foods 
taken in solution will cure acidosis." 

There ensued a discussion between his wife and 



The Personal Application 177 

myself as to the preparation of the prescription and 
as to John's subsequent diet. 

John took the "cure." It was slow work but be- 
ing convinced he persisted. It took three months to 
get any real results and six to effect a cure — but 
John says he knows he would be lying there still if 
he hadn't started on the logical course. 

Almost all of us have had an oversupply of acid- 
forming foods. Study your own case and don't wait 
for a collapse to emphasize the need. Give yourself 
and the adult members of your family an oversup- 
ply of concentrated (liquid) alkalies. Do this for 
weeks or months if the need is evident and then con- 
tinue to balance your meals. Let this become fixed 
habit. Let it become gospel to you. 



XVIII 
THE STORY OF THE 

KRONPRINZ WILHELM 

Previous to the war the Kronprinz Wilhelm was 
a palatial transatlantic passenger steamship belong- 
ing to the North German Lloyd. In 1914 it was 
converted into a German raider and sent out on the 
high seas to sink merchant vessels bound with sup- 
plies to the Allies. Leaving Hoboken Aug. 3, 1914, 
its officers and crew thoroughly understood that they 
could not again touch port until the war was over. 
They were out at sea for nine months before the 
tragedy which we are about to record occurred to 
their men. During this time they captured, bombed 
and sunk fourteen vessels. Each of these vessels 
was robbed of its food and fuel supply before being 
sunk. From each of them the Germans took prac- 
tically the same things. Plenty of white flour, white 
biscuits, sweet crackers, butter (or oleo), potatoes, 
canned vegetables, fresh meat, condensed milk, tea 
and coffee, and refined sugar. 

Two of the vessels sunk were bound for Liverpool 
with whole cargoes of fresh meats. These the Ger- 
mans crammed into their own perfect refrigerator 

system. (Some they salted and corned.) They 

178 



The Story of the Kronprinz Wilhelm 179 

had meat enough to feast upon and to last them in- 
definitely. 

Two other vessels were laden with cargoes of 
whole wheat. From these the Germans took only 
the available white flour, butter, potatoes, and 
canned vegetables, ham, bacon, etc. They sent the 
precious wheat to the bottom. If the Germans had 
known what was going on in their own bodies, if 
they had known the priceless value to themselves of 
the phosphorous, potassium and calcium salts con- 
tained in that whole wheat, they would have gath- 
ered and stored and guarded it as so much unalloyed 
gold. 

But the Germans did not know they were sick. 
They did not know that the absence of these min- 
erals was slowly robbing their tissues of life and 
bringing about a condition of acidosis, which would 
eventually cause 100 of them to drop without warn- 
ing, paralyzed, to the deck. 

They were eating typical American meals — plenty 
of fresh meat, boiled or mashed potatoes, canned 
vegetables, white bread and butter (or oleo), tea 
and coffee with sugar and condensed milk. These 
in various appetizing forms they ate three times a 
day plus a substantial mid-afternoon lunch. Out in 
the fresh air of the open seas "fed up" with these 
typical American meals they should have been feel- 
ing very fit indeed. 

They paid little or no attention to lesser ills or 
symptoms of lowering vitality and it was not until 



180 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

the conditions became extreme and the men com- 
pletely incapacitated that the ship's surgeon (Dr. 
Perrenon) became seriously alarmed. Some of the 
men collapsed after they had been out six to eight 
months but in April, the ninth month, they began 
going down like tenpins at the rate of two to five a 
day; some of them keeping up until the last minute 
and then dropping helpless to the deck; 1 10 of them 
were down. Dr. Perrenon found himself totally 
unable to relieve the suffering of the men. One 
thing he knew : That he must make a dash for some 
neutral port at once or they would be out on the 
high seas manned with 500 dead bodies. Accord- 
ingly they headed for America and on April 11, 
1915, arrived at Newport News in the James River 
after having been out on the high seas just eight 
months and eight days. 

Immediately on their arrival the best medical aid 
of New York City was called to their relief. Every 
one else was barred from the ship. 

Mr. Alfred W. McCann was at that time working 
on the New York Globe — conducting a campaign 
to educate the people in food values and food science. 
Mr. McCann had devoted a lifetime to the study of 
malnutrition and its causes and was therefore most 
intensely anxious to get on board the stricken ship. 
He was close to several high officials — but although 
he pulled every wire he knew of both in New York 
and Washington he could not break the ban. News- 
paper men were especially barred. 



The Story of the Kronprinz Wilhelm 181 

He brooded. Rumor said there was beri-beri or 
something very closely resembling it on board that 
ship. What had the men eaten? Mr. McCann was 
doing his utmost to fight the white flour evil of 
America. Was this perhaps the very lesson he 
needed to prove his point*? 

His work was in the interest of humanity. He 
resorted to stratagem. He had a card printed with 
the name of an eminent physician, hired a launch 
and climbed on board the ship — presenting his card. 
He was ushered at once into the salon where sat the 
twelve medical men in consultation. 

But almost immediately on entering he was recog- 
nized by a New York health officer who sprang to 
his feet and said: "Gentlemen, this man is not a 
physician — this is McCann of the New York Globe." 

Mr. McCann knew that it was not a moment for 
courtesies — neither was there a moment to lose. He 
replied that he was McCann and that he was there 
because he was a student of malnutrition. And if 
there was beri-beri on that ship why all the hysteria 
and secrecy when there were hundreds of cases of 
the same nature in New York City — due to the same 
cause. 

He said just enough to interest the ship's surgeon, 
Dr. Perrenon, who stepped forward and extended 
his hand saying: "Mr. McCann, I will hear all you 
have to say when these gentlemen have finished." 

When the doctors had finished their consultation 
and returned to the city Dr. Perrenon and Mr. Mc- 



182 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Cann discussed the situation in detail. Mr. McCann 
called the former's attention to certain findings 
made by Dr. H. C. Sherman of Columbia Univer- 
sity and of other men of equal courage and repute in 
which it was proven that a diet of demineralized, 
degerminated foods would bring about a condition 
of malnutrition of greater or less gravity, depending 
upon the extent of the cause. 

It was then shown in discussion that every item 
of food which the men had eaten had been acid- 
forming — meat, boiled potatoes, canned vegetables, 
white bread and butter (or oleo), cheese and sweet 
biscuit. There had been absolutely no alkaline ele- 
ment. The alkaline necessary for the body to func- 
tion had therefore been taken from the tissues, bones 
and blood of their own bodies. The blood and tis- 
sues of the men had become thoroughly saturated 
with acid. 

What then was the remedy? 

Dr. Perrenon asked the question. Mr. McCann 
replied that since the bodies of the men were satur- 
ated with acid the logical remedy would be to give 
them vegetable alkaline as fast and as freely as pos- 
sible. He therefore suggested that they be given in 
solution. The men would be able to get the alka- 
lines in greater quantities in this way than by eating. 
Definitely his suggestions were : — 

1st. That one hundred pounds of bran be steeped 
in 200 pounds of water and a large glass of the 
liquid fed to the men each morning. 



The Story of the Kronprinz Wilhelm 183 

2nd. That all kinds of available leaves and vege- 
tables be scrubbed (not peeled), boiled, the liquid 
fed to the men as soup in generous quantities (vege- 
tables thrown away). 

3rd. That potatoes be scrubbed and peeled; the 
potatoes thrown away, the peelings boiled and the 
liquid given to the men — a small glass once a day. 

4th. That the men should have milk, egg-yolk, 
and fruit in prescribed quantities; also a small 
amount of whole wheat bread and after a week of 
above treatment, the vegetables of the soup. 

Under no circumstances should they have any 
acid-forming food. 

After due deliberation Dr. Perrenon decided that 
since the men had thus far resisted all medical treat- 
ment it would be wrong to withhold from them the 
alkaline treatment. This decision was made and 
the treatment started on April 16th. Up to that 
time the men were still going down at the rate of 
2 to 5 a day. 

On April 17th there were no new cases. Neither 
were there any from that day on. In four days 
the men showed a marked improvement and in ten 
days 47 of them were dismissed from the ship's 
hospital and one of the completely paralyzed vic- 
tims was able to stand on his feet without help. 

Dr. Perrenon expressed astonishment and satis- 
faction at the completeness of the cure and said 
that the lesson in food values would not be lost 
to Germany. 



184 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Mr. McCann reported the facts in detail to the 
Surgeon-General at Washington believing that here 
at last was the proof which, if spread broadcast 
would open the eyes of the public. We were not 
then at war with Germany and Bernstorf suppressed 
the incident. Thus the public has not yet learned 
the danger to their bodily resistance of living on 
a demineralized, degerminated, denatured diet. 

"But" — comes the question from someone — "Why 
don't these typical American meals have an equally 
disastrous effect on the Americans who eat them'?" 

The answer is this: We at home who eat the 
occasional apple, or piece of celery, or lettuce, etc., 
give to our bodies some alkaline (mineral) ele- 
ment which is greedily taken up by the tissues, thus 
postponing a breakdown. The acid-forming meals 
such as the Germans ate (meat, boiled potatoes, 
canned vegetables, white bread and butter), gradu- 
ally rob the tissues of resistance. The small amount 
of alkaline (mineral) element taken prevents com- 
plete collapse — but leaves us susceptible to every 
ill that blows. 

There is no such thing as "Sudden death." The 
process was slowly going on for a long time previous 
to the collapse. 

The Germans had no "offsetting" foods and it 
took just nine months to break them. They didn't 
know they were sick until the break came. 

Beri-beri is the extreme end of mineral starva- 



The Story of the Kronprinz Wilhelm 185 

tion. There are many stopping places this side of 
beri-beri. 

What a wonderful race of sturdy upstanding men 
and women we would be if we ate the foods as 
Mother Nature prepares them for us — containing 
all food elements in the right proportion. 



THE END 



Rinding sect. DEC;:::gj; 



G3 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



TX Monaghan, Elizabeth A. 

715 What to eat and hoW t0 

M6 prepare it 



BioMed. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



p 




^^ 



.>^\^' 




AOEUA M. BEEUWKES 



I 



I 






^ ' -^-JB 



WHAT TO EAT AND 
HOW TO PREPARE IT 

ELIZABETH A. MONAGHAN 



WHAT TO EAT AND 



HOW TO PREPARE IT 



BY 

ELIZABETH A. MONAGHAN 



WITH A PREFACE BY 

SARAH GERTRUDE BANKS, M.D. 




NEW ^VSr YORK 
GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY 






eubiic n«i)lD 



COPYRIGHT, 1922, 
BT GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY 



WHAT TO EAT AND HOW TO PREPARE IT. I 



PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 









PREFACE 

The relation of food to health is becoming more 
and more the subject of discussion and research 
among the medical profession. This because many 
diseases, the cause of which baffled science until re- 
cently, arc now known to be the result of "food defi- 
ciency" ; which means, not a lack of food, but a lack 
of the right kind of food, or of the right elements in 
the food obtained. How many more of the rapidly 
increasing ills of the race shall be traced and the 
cause definitely nailed to this same "food deficiency*' 
remains to be learned. That there will be more we 
are satisfied. That many of the lesser ills which are 
today treated negligently are due to dietetic errors 
there can be no question. 

Meantime the only safeguard against the numer- 
ous packages of "foodless foods" with which the 
market is flooded is a knowledge of what is food; 
what elements are positively essential to the noij;'- 
ishment and functioning of the human body; what 
happens when these elements constitute a portion of 
the daily dietary and what happens when they do 
not. Only such foods as contain these elements — at 
least in some small degree — can be rightly classed as 
"Foods." The best and most complete foods being 



vi Preface 

obviously those which contain all the elements in 
approximately the right proportion. 

This little book places such knowledge within the 
easy grasp of every reader with a clearness which is 
simplicity itself. Miss Monaghan has given not 
only a clear vision on the subject of food and what 
is food; she has taught how to select, combine and 
prepare it. She has told not only what to do but 
with equal deftness how to do it. Her book should 
be an inspiration to every housewife. It would be 
well if every mother in the land could have a copy 
and live thereby. 

Forty years ago there was less imperative need for 
such knowledge. Natural foods were easier to ob- 
tain. We thrived on these natural foods without 
knowing why, nor needing to know. Throughout a 
long and very active practice I have seen and noted 
the results of both the old and new methods of living. 
Malnutrition with its consequent evils has kept 
steady pace with the refinement of foods. 

Today with our splendid knowledge of sanitation 
and the prevention of contagious diseases (knowl- 
edge which was not ours in the early days), we are 
threatened with an evil which is more deadly because 
it is stealthy. It does not strike us down and rouse 
us to fight it. It robs us a little at a time, leaving us 
easy prey to every ill. Thus we lose sight of the 
cause. Malnutrition has many phases. 

Food refinement began iimocently enough. It has 
been carried too far. "Food deficiency disease" 



Preface vii 

started investigation and experimentation. The 
findings of Dr. Henry C. Sherman of Columbia Uni- 
versity and of other men of equal courage and repute 
cannot be questioned. 

It makes no difference whether food is "fine" or 
"coarse." It does make a difference whether or not 
it contains the elements necessary to life and health. 
"Refining" food robs it of these elements. 

Alfred W. McCann's book has done much to open 
the eyes of the public on this subject. Miss Mon- 
aghan in the following pages has made this knowl- 
edge practical and applicable in the home. The 
urge to greater simplicity in diet is also a stride 
in the right direction. Her carefully outlined plan, 
if earnestly followed, cannot fail to bring results in 
better health. 

Sarah Gertrude Banks, M.D. 



\) 



( 



INTRODUCTION 

This little book is the outgrowth of the writer's 
enthusiasm over Mr. McCann's remarkable work on 
dietetics — "The Science of Eating." It is designed 
to be a help to those who have also read his book 
and who desire to plan their dietary in accordance 
with his findings. 

It is, therefore, assumed that all who consult 
these suggestions are already familiar with the as- 
tounding facts unveiled through the pages of "The 
Science of Eating." 

The recipes given are very simple and old- 
fashioned. The effort has been to get away from 
f ajicy perverted h abits of eating. They will pos- 
sess their greatest value to those who are thoroughly 
familiar with the points given in Chapters I and II 
and who therefore clearly understand the Reason 
for conserving all the food value in all of our food. 
Values which have been so wantonly destroyed. 

After having spent twelve of the best years of my 
life fighting for my health and having put myself on 
my feet by a study of food value, it is no wonder 
that I feel an enthusiasm and a desire to pass the 
good word along. It is very pleasant to be compli- 
mented everywhere I go on the change in my ap- 
pearance; but the thing which really counts is the 



Introduction 



wonderful feeling of vitality which is my actual 
possession. 

Mr. McCann's book pointed out to me so clearly 
an4 forcefully the cause of my low resistance and 
lack of vitality and made the Remedy so simple and 
easy to follow that I became imbued with enthusiasm 
and preached its gospel to all of my friends — espe- 
cially those who had children or any illness in the 
family. Again and again I put this gospel to the 
test with undernourished children or ailing friends 
and always with the most beneficial results. Invari- 
ably from these I was deluged with a list of ques- 
tions — ^How ? — ^Why ? — ^Where ? 

Dozens of times these tests and discussions took 
place before the thought came to me to compile 
these recipes and suggestions into this little book. 

It is not that there are any difRculties to be met 
in preparing our food in this new (old) way, but we 
are all creatures of habit and any change of routine 
is always upsetting. 

The new routine (with its definite health-giving 
reasons) when once established will be found even 
easier than the old. 

This little book then is designed to act as a bridge 
between the old routine and the new; making the 
step over easier, requiring less personal thought. 



E. A. M. 



CONTENTS 



Preface by Sarah Gertrude Banks, M.D. 
Introduction 



PAGS 

• • 

vu 
iz 



Part I: The Need and tts Remedy 

I The Corner Stones of the New Routine 

II The Necessity for the Change 

III Food Classifications 

IV Calories vs. Vitamines . 
V The Corner Stones Again . 

VI Getting Your Mind Ready . 

VII Getting Your Kitchen Ready 

VIII Reflections on the Situation 

IX Whole Wheat Bread — The Staff of Life 



15 

20 

29 
36 
39 

43 
50 

54 



Part II: Preparing the Food: Recipes 

X Preparing the Food 63 

BREAKFAST GRAINS 64 

MILK 68 

BRAN 71 

SOUPS 73 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 78 

VEGETABLES 80 

BREADS 88 

SALAD HINTS 96 

SALAD DRESSINGS 101 

FRUIT 1Q3 

Zl 



xu 



Contents 



NUTS 

DESSERT SUGGESTIONS 
SOME UNUSUAL RECIPES 
VEGETABLE TONIC 
SWEETS FOR THE KIDDIES 
SWEET SANDWICH FILLERS 
CANDIES 



PAGE 

106 
110 
114 
116 

120 



Fart III: Combining the Food: Menus 

XI Foods for Mineral and Vitamines . 

breakfast menus 

luncheon menus 

fourteen (4-course) meatless din- 
ner menus 

seven dinner menus including meat 

seven dinner menus including meat 
substitutes 

fourteen simpler dinner menus 
without meat 

Are You Approaching Overweight? . 

A Word About Appetites 

Don'ts for the Children 



XII 

XIII 

XIV 

XV 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 



125 

126 

128 

131 
135 

137 

140 

145 

147 
149 



Part IV: Obstacles and Successes 

Underfed Children 

The Girl Who Works 

Margaret's Thyroid 

The Genuine Milk Cure .... 

The Semi-milk Diet 

Personal Application 

The Story of the Kronprinz Wilhelm 



153 
158 

161 

165 

169 

172 

178 



PART I 
THE NEED AND ITS REMEDY 



WHAT TO EAT AND 
HOW TO PREPARE IT 



THE CORNER STONES OF THE NEW 

ROUTINE 

FIRST CORNER STONE 

The suggestions and directions given in the pages 
which follow are for the mothers and housewives. 
For those on whose shoulders rests the responsibility 
of feeding the family. It is necessary, however, 
before undertaking these practical lessons to know 
exactly to what end you are working — and why. 

For this purpose let us take "The Science of 
Eating** and from its unlimited fimd of information 
separate two central facts to serve as the foundation 
stones of our dietary. Get a thorough knowledge of 
these two comer stones and you can't go wrong in 
preparing menus which will make your children 
strong and keep them strong. 

The first of these "Central Facts" is found in the 
chapter on "Dust thou art and unto dust thou shalt 
return" — ^pages ^^ and 61, where we are told forci- 

15 



16 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

bly what we have all known in a hazy sort of way — 
viz. : — 

There are sixteen minerals designed by the Al- 
mighty as the food elements of the vegetable and 
animal kingdoms. 

There can be no doubt about this for these sixteen 
minerals are found repeating themselves all through 
nature. Analyze chemically a handful of earth or 
a glass of milk or an egg or a grain of wheat or even 
your own body. You will find the same sixteen 
elements. How came they there? Through food — 
and food alone. Their presence in the right propor- 
tion spells health. Their absence spells low resist- 
ance, sickness and even death. 

We can't absorb these minerals from the earth as 
found there. 

The plant absorbs them from the earth. We get 
them from the plant as food. 

These sixteen elements are just as necessary for 
the growth and health of our bodies as they are nec- 
essary for the growth and life of the plant. 

When a farmer reaps a crop he knows that said 
crop has taken from the soil certain food elements. 
Before planting another crop he replaces those ele- 
ments to the soil by means of a fertilizer. Why? 
Because he knows that without these minerals his 
next crop will not thrive. 

Yet we intelligent (?) humans have been pre- 
paring and eating our food to please our palates only 
with no thought whatever of the mineral elements 



The Corner Stones of the New Routine 17 

necessary to sustain our bodies in a state of health. 
Through our ignorance we have lost these precious 
minerals in two ways : 

1st. By our methods of cookery we have boiled 
them out of our vegetables and thrown the water 
containing the minerals down the sink. 

2nd. The millers have removed them from our 
grains. 

Wheat — i.e., the entire wheat berry — the grain — 
contains the whole sixteen minerals. Yet in the 
milling of white flour three-quarters of these build- 
ing materials have been removed. 

Our white bread contains no food value. This 
is also true of white rice and of all denatured cereals. 
It has been positively proven that the removal of 
these minerals is the cause of malnutrition among 
children and the primary cause of all our illnesses. 
Hence : 

It is our plan now to obtain and use meal made 
from the whole grain and to so prepare our food as to 
conserve all the food value. 

This is the basis for our new routine. 

SECOND CORNER STONE 

The second "Central Fact" which we must thor- 
oughly learn to have it serve as our second comer 
stone will be found in the chapter on "Bases and 
Acids in Food" (pp. 142 and 155, "Science of 
Eating"). 



18 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

In this for the sake of clearness we are given an 
illustration with which we are all familiar, viz. : — 

Dissolve some baking soda and stir into it scHne 
cream of tartar (or molasses or vinegar). Instantly 
they bubble and froth. 

The cream of tartar (or vinegar) is an acid, the 
baking soda is an alkali. (In the mixing of the two 
we call the alkali the "base.'') 

When the two come together they fight it out until 
they neutralize each other. 

Some acids are very strong, others are feeble, but 
all acids are neutralized when brought in contact 
with "bases" (alkalis). 

This point is very important. 

Bases and acids neutralize each other and this 
process of neutralization is constantly going on in 
our bodies. 

Our bodies are constantly manufacturing acids. 
There must be bases enough in our food to neutralize 
them. 

Certain of our foods are acid-forming. Others 
are base-forming. If these are properly balanced 
all is well — ^but it is clear that if we eat an acid- 
forming food and another and another acid-forming 
food without sufRcient alkaline or base-forming food 
trouble must ensue. 

Unless the acids manufactured in our bodies are 
neutralized by bases a condition of Acidosis is 
brought about. 



The Comer Stones of the New Routine 19 

Acidosis is the primary cause of nine-tenths of our 
illnesses. 

Acidosis is sometimes called anemia, sometimes 
neuritis, nervous breakdown, etc. The form it takes 
makes little difference. The cause is the same. 

All foods as found in nature are "balanced" (con- 
taining botli acid and base f oraiing elements) . 

But the bases are always mineral and when we 
have wasted our minerals in the way hereintofore 
described we have thrown away our bases and have 
left only the acid-forming elements. Thus: — 

Whole wheat is "balanced." White flour is acid- 
foiming. 

Baked potatoes are "balanced." Boiled potatoes 
are acid-foraiing. 

In both instances we have lost the minerals by 
methods of milling or cooking. 

This is what we are planning to avoid. 

Now — we can sum up our knowledge of our two 
comer stones in this one sentence : 

We will conserve our minerals by cooking our 
vegetables more sanely and by insisting on meal 
made from the whole grain. 

And we must have our food properly balanced 
as to acids and bases. 

THE CORNER STONES 

1st. CONSERVE THE MINERALS. 
2nd. BALANCE THE ACIDS. 



II 

THE NECESSITY FOR THE CHANGE 

There is also a third Big Fact to present to your 
intelligence before you are well launched and that 
is: — 

Why are these mineral elements necessary to sus- 
tain the body in a state of health? 

It is not enough to be presented with an arbitrary 
rule. The intelligence demands a Reason for that 
rule. 

All knowledge comes in waves. The knowledge 
of the existence of gerais was given to us only fifty 
years ago — ^by Pasteur. 

Previous to that time the world knew frightful 
epidemics of disease — ^unchecked through their ig- 
norance of the cause. 

Fifty years from now our children will have 
taken steps to prevent the food manufacturers from 
juggling with our food. And they will know why. 

In order that you may see it clearly now, concen- 
trate your mind on the following sequence : 

Germs feed on dead tissue. 

Their purpose on the earth is to decompose dead 
bodies. 

Live, healthy tissue resists germs. 

20 



The Necessity for the Change 21 

In the process of living there is a constant tearing 
down and building up of the tissues in our bodies. 

Every thought you think destroys a brain cell. 
Nature repairs this waste during sleep. 

Same with breathing. Same with every move- 
ment of your body. 

Along come your blood corpuscles like an army 
of miniature soldiers to carry off the waste and 
rebuild new tissue. 

Constantly — constantly the little army works. 
The process of living. 

But:— 

Suppose the little army has not the proper tools? 

Suppose it has not enough calcium, enough phos- 
phorus, enough manganese, enough iron? 

For all these food minerals work together in 
beautiful harmony. The iron in the blood unites 
with the oxygen as it enters the limgs and carries it 
to the body cells where the waste tissue is burned 
by the oxygen and carried off through the lungs 
with the aid of other minerals during the process. 
The blood meanwhile busily rebuilding. 

Suppose then our little army is not properly 
equipped ? 

Then it cannot repair the waste. The dead tissue 
remains. 

Suppose this condition continues? 

More waste — ^more dead tissue. 

Then along comes an epidemic of pneumonia. 
And you caimot resist. 



22 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

And why can you not resist it? 

Because the germs entering your body found dead 
cell tissue upon which to feed and multiply. 

The dead cells in a living body are just the same 
food for germs as the dead cells in a dead body. 

It is not the germs which you need to fear : it is 
the dissolute condition of your own bodily tissue 
which invites the germs to enter and feed. 

Keep your tissues in a state of health. Right 
food will do it. 

Again : 

Germs feed on dead tissue. Live, healthy tissue 
can laugh at gemis. 

No need to fear an attack of disease when your 
tissues are in a state of health. 

The tissues are kept in a state of health only by 
pure and perfect blood. The blood must have its 
sixteen elements. 

What is it that causes anemia? 

A lack of iron and other mineral in the blood. 

Why so much thin sick hair and baldness? 

A lack of silicon and its accompanying minerals. 

The squirrels and other forest animals have no 
difficulty retaining perfect hair, nails and teeth 
through the natural span of their lives. Why? 

They eat the food which Mother Nature pro- 
vides. No part of its building material is removed 
to make it more "digestible" or more "palatable" or 
more pleasing to the eye. 

What is it that causes tooth decay? 



The Necessity for the Change 28 

A lack of calcium in the blood. 

Why is it that the young mother almost always 
has serious trouble with her teeth? 

Because she did not have enough calcium in her 
blood. The baby had to have the calcium for the 
foraiation of his little bones. He drained the cal- 
cium from her teeth. He also robbed other stores, 
the result of which she cannot see so readily. This 
is why yoimg mothers so often succumb to tubercu- 
losis. 

Their Resistance is lowered. 

GOOD RESISTANCE MEANS HEALTHY TISSUES 

Healthy tissues are the result of pure and perfect 
blood. 

Perfect blood is made and kept perfect by food 
and food alone. From no other source can we get 
the sixteen elements. 

This is why we must conserve all the food value 
in all of our food. The little army must have its 
tools. 

Oh, the wonder of a drop of blood! (See p. 74, 
"Science of Eating.'') 

CONDENSATION 

And now again, before starting our routine we can 
sum up the knowledge which is to be our foundation 
in a sentence, viz.: 

{a) We must have our food properly balanced 
as to bases and acids. 



24 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

(b) We must conserve all the minerals in all 
of our food, because — 

(c) Our blood must be supplied with the proper 
materials to keep our tissues in a state of health. 

Food is the Only Way. 

Fix that three-part sentence peraianently in your 
mind. It is the gospel of the new routine. 



m 

FOOD CLASSIFICATIONS 

We are laying special stress on the mineral ele- 
ment and Vitamines because these are the elements 
which have been overlooked and the absence of these 
elements in our foods has been the cause of much 
illness. But in order to avoid confusion it is really 
necessary that you should have a clear and con- 
densed knowledge of all classes of food, food divi- 
sions and food values. 

Food taken into the body serves two purposes : 

1st. It repairs waste and builds tissue. 
2nd. It supplies heat and energy. 

The mineral element supplies material for bones 
and teeth and without it the blood and digestive 
organs cannot properly function. We may therefore 
consider the minerals as the tools which the blood 
must have in order to properly handle the other 
tissue-building, heat-producing foods. 

Most of you are familiar with the old academic 

food division, viz., Proteins, Carbohydrates and 

Fats. A few there may be who are not. Don't be 

disturbed by the high sounding names. They are in 

reality very simple. 

25 



26 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

PROTEIN is the element found in meats, etc. 
CARBOHYDRATE is the element in starches and 
sugars. 

Protein is a tissue-building food. 
Carbohydrates and fats are chiefly heat and 
energy foods. 

Proteins are of two kinds — Vegetable and Animal. 

Animal Proteins are found in meat, fish, eggs, 
milk and cheese. 

Vegetable Proteins are foimd in nuts, whole 
grains (wheat, com, rye, oats, etc.), and in beans, 
peas, lentils, etc. 

Opinions differ as to whether you should eat ani- 
mal protein in the form of meat at all, but all scien- 
tists agree that at least one-half of your proteins 
should be of vegetable origin. Also it has been 
demonstrated that about three oimces of protein is 
all one person in normal health can take care of in 
a day. Any more than that overloads the kidneys. 
This means about one and one-half ounces animal 
proteins, which equals about six oimces of lean 
meat or fish. (The fat in the meat is estimated as 
fat.) 

A great majority of you have been overeating on 
protein foods. The kidneys camiot take care of it. 
The overload is a slow poison. Cut down on the 
protein. 

Carbohydrates being starches and sugars, your 



Food Classifications 27 

own intelligence will guide you in locating them. 
Starches are most abundant in potatoes, bread, 
cereals, beans, peas, etc. The tubers — turnips, car- 
rots, parsnips, etc. — contain very little. All starches 
are turned into sugar during the process of digestion. 
All dietitians use the academic division and agree 
that a balanced diet should consist of 

1st. Protein lo to 15% 

2nd. Fats 25 to 30% 

3rd. Carbohydrates 60 to 65% 

4th. Mineral Salts 

Sometimes this fourth division is mentioned, 
sometimes not, but not much stress has ever been 
laid on it until very recently. 

This 4th division is the most important of 
all; without it the body cannot properly 

MAKE USE OF THE OTHER FOOD ELEMENTS. 

In Other words, the mineral element is necessary 
for proper functioning. Food must be digested and 
burned. Combustion cannot take place without the 
proper balance of mineral in the blood. 

Furthermore a diet of Proteins, Carbohydrates 
and Fats is purely acid-forming. The mineral ele- 
ment must be present in sufficient quantities to 
sweeten the blood and make it alkaline. 

The Vitamines are with the minerals — insepar- 
able. The sailors on board the Kronprinz Wilhelm 
were fed on the perfectly balanced diet according to 
this old academic division, and we know what hap- 



28 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

pened to them. They had no mineral balance and 
they suffered the consequences.^ 

Just remember that it is almost impossible to pre- 
pare an ordinary old-fashioned meal without its 
Proteins, Carbohydrates and Fats (meat, potatoes, 
bread and butter) while in millions of American 
homes today the mineral element is almost totally 
absent. 

The menus given in the following pages have a 
fair balance of all the food divisions. 

One thing more — ^The Proteins found in the glu- 
ten of wheat are feeble, but the Proteins found in the 
germs are rich and health-giving. This precious 
germ is removed in the milling of white flour. 
Don't forget that. Not only the minerals but the 
Proteins are lost. 

^See page 178 for the dramatic story of the German raider«- 
Kronprin% Wilhelm — and what happened to her crew. 



IV 

CALORIES VS. VITAMINES 

Scxneone has asked — "What about calories, 
should we know about them as well as Vitamines?" 
I believe that you will very soon see why every 
housewife should know what foods contain the 
Vitamines ; but that the everyday needs of the every- 
day family do not require a knowledge of calories. 
In the first place : 

WHAT IS A CALORIE? 

[First definition] — It is the amount of heat re- 
quired to raise the tempera- 
ture of one pound of water 
four degrees Fahrenheit. 

Food in the body is burned (oxidized) and pro- 
duces heat and energy, hence when used in connec- 
tion with food : 

[Second definition] — ^A calorie represents the 

amount of food required 
to produce this same 
amount of heat in the 
body. 

For example: 

A medium-sized slice of bread equals lOO calories. 

29 



80 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

This means that a medium slice of bread will 
produce in the body lOO of these heat units. 

In other words, a calorie is not a food element. 
It is a measuring unit. 

The calories are not in the bread nor any part of 
the bread. They simply represent the amount of 
heat and energy produced by the bread. 

A calorie, then, is a measuring imit the same as a 
quart or pound — representing quantity of heat. 

It takes very much more of one kind of food than 
it does of another to produce this unit of heat in the 
body. The calorie is chosen as the imiform way of 
expressing it. The caloric value of a pound and a 
half of lettuce is the same as that of a slice of bread. 

The highest caloried foods are the ones in the 
academic division already given, viz., Proteins, Car- 
bohydrates and Fats. 

The ones with the low caloric values are the min- 
eral salts and vitamines. 

You see the minerals and vitamines do not pro- 
duce heat, and a calorie is a measure of heat, but — 

Without the mineral element in the food the 
blood becomes impoverished^ the tissue waste is not 
repaired and the food is not properly burned. 

Thus it is clear that all of these high caloried 
foods will not build the body unless accompanied 
by Nature's own mysterious safeguards — ^minerals 
and vitamines — ^which have practically no caloric 
value. 

Now : — 



Calories Vs. Vitamines 81 

WHAT ARE VITAMINES? 

Vitamines are essential life-giving elements of 
food stored by nature in the juices of fruits, in the 
stalks arid leaves of green vegetables, in milk and in 
butter fats and in the outer covering (bran) and 
germs of the whole grain. 

Here is how vitamines were discovered — ^very 
recently. 

As super-civilization advanced man began jug- 
gling with the foods which God had placed upon the 
earth in their perfect state. This juggling was done 
to make them more pleasing to the eye, or more easily 
cooked. (The juggler becoming rich therefrom.) 
All went well imtil certain strange diseases began 
to break out among groups of men who were caught 
imder circumstances where their chief food was this 
denatured food. The first of these was the Japanese 
army. The disease baffled science. After thou- 
sands of the Japs had died the disease was traced to 
the absence of certain vital elements in the beautiful 
white rice. An extract made from the outer covering 
(the polishings) which had been removed were fed 
to the men and they promptly recovered. 

With this incident as a basic fact scientists im- 
mediately began exhaustive research and experi- 
ments on animals. 

These efforts proved that in the polishing of the 
rice not only the minerals but two other vital ele- 



82 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

ments hitherto unknown to Science had been re- 
moved. 

Further research proved that these same elements 
existed in, and were removed by the milling of 
wheat, com, rye, etc., and still further research lo- 
cated the same elements in other essential articles of 
food. 

Animals developed disease when these elements 
were withheld from their food and recovered when 
given them. The sick were made well, or the well 
were made sick at will — ^by juggling with these ele- 
ments. 

The scientists who first gave these discoveries to 
the world were Funk and McCoUum. 

Although these substances defied chemical analy- 
sis Funk succeeded in isolating them — extremely 
minute crystals. 

The name "Vitamines" was given them and later 
they were further specified as "Fat Soluble A" and 
"Water Soluble B." A third ^Water Soluble C" 
being added still later. 

Fat Soluble A is found in milk, butter, cheese, 
the yolks of eggs and the germs of whole grains. 
Water Soluble B in skim milk, in whole grains, in 
the leaves and stalks of green vegetables, in the 
juices of fruits. "C". thus far has been located 
chiefly in fruit juices. 

Without these elements in the food^ health can-' 
not be maintained. 

The eye disease which developed among the 



Calories Vs. Vitamines 33 

children of Europe during the recent war was proven 
to be the result of a milkless and butterless diet — 
the absence of Fat Soluble A, 

Poor Little Kiddies ! 

Henry Ford says that some day there will be arti- 
ficial milk. Mr. Ford may possess the ability to 
have created the Ford and other useful modem con- 
trivances; but God alone through the mysterious 
forces of nature has and always will create the vita- 
mines. 

Nature accepts no substitutes. 

WHEREFORE THE CALORIE 

Now, referring again to the definitions of a 
Calorie, and of Vitamines, which knowledge does 
your judgment tell you is the more important in 
preparing your menus? 

Some of the points which destroy faith in the 
value of caloric knowledge are these : 

1st. The caloric value of a cupful of white 
(polished) rice and a cupful of natural brown rice 
is exactly the same, despite the Japanese incident. 

2nd. The caloric value of a piece of white bread 
is exactly the same as that of the same sized piece of 
whole wheat bread, and yet : 

Animals fed on white flour products alone will 
die quicker than if they were not fed at all, while 
animals fed on whole wheat exclusively will thrive 
indefinitely. 

The Kronprinz Wilhelm sailors had plenty of 



34 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



I 



white bread — and they were all sick. On the Don- | 

aid McMillan expedition the food supply depleted j 

and for nearly a year the crew lived chiefly on 
whole wheat biscuits — and they returned in perfect 
health. 

Verily — **Wherefore the calorie?" 
Of what use is it to you, as a housewife, to know 
that a certain portion of food will produce a certain 
amount of heat in the body, if that same food will 

not sustain life? 

These are only two of the points which destroy 

faith in caloric values. 

[The caloric value of a fried egg is greater than 
of a poached one. Fat counts. ] 

The calorie is without doubt very scientific and 
very helpful to the dietitian in proportioning energy 
foods, but — 

Since the quality of your blood depends abso- 
lutely upon the quality of the food which enters the 
digestive organs, don't you think it behooves you to 
center your attention upon said quality? 

You see the emphasis was laid on the importance 
of calories previous to the time that science discov- 
ered and recognized the importance of minerals and 
vitamines. 

You could eat the prescribed number of calories 
per day and in a short time develop anemia. 

Anemia is result of the absence of iron and other 
mineral in the blood. 



Calories Vs. Vitamines 85 

You could eat the prescribed number of calories 
per day and develop a case of acidosis, etc. 

Acidosis is the absence of the mineral balance to 
sweeten the blood. 

The calorie will measure some of your necessary 
foods but not all of them ; hence the best thing to do 
is to remember that your daily food supply should 
contain the four food divisions in approximately 
their right proportions, and that these proportions 
can be reached without a knowledge of calories. 

Habit alone will direct you to the energy foods, 
and the addition of a generous supply of the min** 
eral and vitamine foods will help to curb the ten* 
dency to overeat of the Proteins and Starches. 

Plan vitamine Menus. 



THE CORNER STONES AGAIN 

We have said that the comer stones of the new 
routine were to be — 

1st. Conserve the minerals. 

2nd. Balance the acids. 

And with all this discussion of other food divi- 
sions we must not lose sight of these comer stones. 
The plan of basing our dietary on them does not con- 
flict with other food divisions, neither does it com- 
plicate. It really simplifies — as we shall see. 

So much has recently been written on the subject 
of food — so much which is arbitrary and analytical 
— that it is no wonder we feel at sea when we have 
finished reading. 

So much of this writing is semi-scientific and 
mysterious — chiefly mysterious. 

We are told learnedly of vitamines for instance 
and we feel vaguely that we are trying to grasp at 
something elusive, something almost ethereal — like 
the fragrance of a flower; and again will come an 
article on "Fat Soluble A and Water Soluble B" 
so shrouded in mystery that our minds receive but a 
hazy impression. 

One thing is certain. When you have finished 

36 



The Comer Stones Again 87 

reading Mr. McCann's "Science of Eating" no such 
impression remains. Clear as the crystal depths of 
one of Nature's own springs stands out the ringing 
Slogan : 

Eat everything which God has put on the 

earth for food but eat it as he put it there, 

Refuse to have it juggled. 

Just that. 

A glance at the list of foods in the next chapter 
will show you that all the purely acid-forming foods 
are "juggled" foods. Some portion of the natural 
article has been removed either in the preparation 
or the cooking; while all the "balanced" foods are 
complete — as found in nature. 

In other words (referring to our first thought in 
Chap. I) the sixteen elements repeat themselves all 
through nature, so that whether we choose our food 
from vegetable roots, or stalks, or leaves, or seeds; 
or from animal products— as eggs or milk— the min- 
eral element is always present. 

It is only when a portion is chosen from the whole 
that the mineral element may be lost. This is some- 
times unavoidable — as in the case of fish or meat, 
and it is then that we need to conserve the minerals 
in our other foods to balance the acids thus formed. 
(See "Meat," Chap. VI.) 

Don't worry about your proteins. The chances 
are you have had a vast oversupply in the form of 
meat. All the protein which your body needs will 



88 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

be found in whole wheat bread and milk; your car- 
bohydrates in a judicious mixture of vegetables; 
your fats in cream and butter and nuts, etc. 

(No we are not eliminating meat — we are advis- 
ing less of it.) 

In other words the road to the new routine is a 
very simple one. You will not need an arithmetic. 
You will not need to learn technical terms. 

Food values — all of them — are blended and inter- 
mingled in any one perfect article of food (such as a 
grain of wheat) just as the separate colors of the 
rainbow are blended in one single ray of light. 

All you have to do is to get these foods in their 
natural state, unadulterated by a food manufacturer, 
and prepare them without wasting any life-giving 
element. 



VI 
GETTING YOUR MIND READY 

Once more before taking up the following sug- 
gestions and recipes it seems opportune to say that 
they were compiled for those who, having read Mr. 
McCann's book, desired to change their routine and 
dietary in accordance with his findings. They are 
designed especially for those who are in earnest in 
their desire to make the change complete and who 
find it somewhat difficult and confusing to get away 
from the old established customs. 

The following pages will serve as a handbook to 
the busy housewife who desires that the food pre- 
pared in her kitchen shall contain the blood-making, 
tissue-building elements which shall insure health 
to her children and all of her household at the same 
time that it satisfies their appetites and pleases their 
palates. 

Once established the new routine will run as 
smoothly as the old and there will be no sudden at- 
tacks of tonsilitis, high temperature, etc., with the 
hurried call for the doctor and the unlimited worry. 

This has been proven a hundred times. 

The first thing then is to fix clearly in our minds 
where to find the minerals and vitamines, also which 
are acid-forming and which base-forming foods. 

39 



40 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Hence let us make a list of them. It won't be 
long until we have them tabulated in our brains 
clearly and permanently. 

Acid' forming Foods 

White bread. 

Boiled potatoes. 

Polished rice. , 

Cornstarch. 

Corn flakes. 

Corn meal (denatured) 

Cream of wheat. 

Pearled barley. 

Whites of eggs. 

Cheese. 

Lard. 

Fat of any kind. 

Meat (especially salt meat). 

Fish. 

All white flour products — as 

Crackers 

Biscuits 

Pastry, etc. 
Denatured rye flour. 
Denatured buckwheat flour. 
All refined cereals. 
All refined sugars. 
Macaroni. * 
Spaghetti. 
Tapioca. 

The following foods are naturally balanced as 
to bases and acids. The ones marked * contain a 
predominance of alkali- (base) forming elements 



(Jetting Your Mind Ready 41 

• 

and are therefore ideal to use as "balancers" at a 
meal where meat or other acid-foraiing food is 
served. 

Balanced Foods 

Whole wheat bread. 

Potatoes — baked or steamed in skins. 

Natural brown rice. 

Corn meal — ground from the whole grain. 

Unpearled barley. 

All natural cereals — i. e., the entire grains. 

Whole wheat flour. 

Rye flour made from whole grain. 

Buckwheat flour made from whole grain. 

Eggs. 
Milk. 

* All fresh vegetables. 

* All greens. 

* All fresh fruits. 

The entire egg is "balanced" — the yolk is the 
base foraier; the white, the acid foraier. 

Milk contains a predominance of alkaline ele- 
ments and all the vitamines. 

And don't forget: 

When foods are balanced as to acids and bases, 
they surely contain the minerals (because the bases 
are always mineral) and that where the minerals 
predominate we also find one or all of the vita- 
mines. 

So it is not three roads. It is one — ^and a straight 
one. 



42 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

''Eat everything which God has put on the earth 
for food — but eat it as He put it there. Refuse to 
have it juggled'^ 

It will be noticed that all things as found in 
nature are "balanced." The fruits, the grains, the 
vegetables, and also the animals. 

Your body is balanced — but : — 

The minerals (bases) are found in the bones and 
blood. This is why — 

MEAT 

Is an acid-forming food. The wild animal of the 
forest who feeds on other animals gets his "bal- 
anced" food. He eats the bones and blood. We do 
not. 

This does not mean that you must eliminate meat 
from your dietary. But it does mean that at a meat 
meal you must have sufficient vegetables, salads and 
fruits to give the mineral (base) balance to the acid 
of the meat. And it does mean that you must not 
go back to the old routine of meat, boiled (or 
mashed) potato and white bread, all three of 
which are acid-forming. It would be impossible at a 
single meal to eat sufficient other vegetables to offset 
the acids of the above combination. 

Now for the New Routine. 

To establish it you will have to do two things: 
ist-^Use a little ingenuity in marketing and 2nd — 
make some changes in your kitchen utensils and 
methods of cooking. 



VII 
GETTING YOUR KITCHEN READY 

The first thing that we must do, of course, to 
get started on "eating for health" is to lay in a 
supply of 1 oo per cent foods. 

The whole grains being the most important we 
will secure those first. Since whole wheat con- 
tains every element which the body needs and 
white flour contains none of them, our children are 
going to have whole wheat bread and whole grains 
for breakfast foods. But the whole grains are not 
easy to find. Your own locality will present its own 
problems — ^perhaps my experience in my locality 
may contain some suggestions. Here's what I did: — 

I personally visited a miller and got tweAty-five 
pounds of clean whole wheat grain which I divided 
among three of my friends. I also got ten pounds of 
whole com grain, which I planned to grind into corn 
meal. 

Then I talked with a leading grocer about brown 

rice. He said there was no sale for it. I told him I 

would guarantee the sale if he would get the rice. 

He made me promise to take one-half a case (30 

pounds). That was easy — I knew I could divide it 

with others who wanted some. 

Next I got a box of Scotch oatmeal, but later 

43 



44 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

learned that the steel cut is just as good — only it 
takes a little longer to cook. (The Scotch, however, 
coming in sealed cans, will keep better in the summer 
time. ) 

That gave me my supply of breakfast grains, 
but it didn't completely answer the question about 
meals and flours. 

The so-called "Whole wheat flour" which is on 
the market is only about 80 per cent whole wheat. 
This is a vast improvement, but I wanted 100 per 
cent — ^all of the grain. Although I inquired at all 
the leading retail and wholesale grocers I did not 
succeed in finding any. I also wanted some reed com 
meal and some entire buckwheat flour which I knew 
were not to be found. (The rye I was not so par- 
ticular about.) 

It became evident that if I wanted these 100 per 
cent meals I would have to buy the whole grains 
and grind them. "Some nuisance" — I thought — 
"but the kiddies are worth it." 

Accordingly I visited a hardware merchant and 
learned that an adequate grinder could be bought 
for about ten ($10.00) dollars. I left an order for 
one but before it had arrived a friend of mine who 
has plenty of money bought quite an elaborate affair 
with an electric motor attachment. I went to her 
home and ground three (10 pound) lots. 

Why couldn't an arrangement somewhat like this 
be worked out between you and your friends? One 
good grinder among a party of friends — or in a 



Getting Your Kitchen Ready 45 

neighborhood and a high school boy for distributor. 
Or even one of the small grinders shared by three 
or four whose fimds are not over-plentiful. (Inquire 
about the Straub Milling Machine. I am told it is 
a very good one.) 

Later I was still more fortunate. Glancing 
through the liner ads of the local newspaper I ran 
across the following advertisement: 

"Have you ever eaten genuine Southern corn-grits? I 
make these and sweet Southern corn meal made from the 
whole corn. Will deliver to you. 

"Price Milling Co., 
"418 Anthon Street." 

It was a remote district of the city, but I located 
it and found there a rather superior young negro 
who told me he had started this business because he 
was starving for some of the sweet white corn prod- 
ucts he had eaten in the South. He had built up 
quite a nice little business (chiefly among his own 
people), and was making a good living. He was 
scrupulously clean. He was making the most won- 
derful com meal I ever tasted (from the whole 
grain) ; and also whole wheat meal (100 per cent). 
Later this mill was taken over by a very energetic 
yoimg man who is building up a remarkably good 
business. He delivers in any locality once a week 
and our troubles about 100 per cent flour are over. 
This is in Detroit. The incident is given as a sug- 
gestion. Couldn't some enterprising youth be found 
in any community to start such a center and work 
up a fair trade among those who know? 



46 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Anyhow, it can be worked out. You will find the 
best way for your particular case. If you can't get 
a center started, there is always the small grinder 
which is very practical and worth the money ex- 
pended. (You might almost as well eat sawdust as 
the com meal you have been eating.) Moreover, 
once you have tasted the wonderful flavor of the 
genuine article you would never be willing to go 
back to the other even if food value were not the 
chief consideration. And once the routine is estab- 
lished the rest will be easy enough. (The Straub 
is a small grinder.) 

COOKING UTENSILS 

After you have arranged about your flour and 
meal, the next thing to think about is the proper 
cooking utensils for your vegetables. Since the 
juices of vegetables contain the mineral salts they 
must not be wasted. Casserole cooking is the ideal 
way, hence you should have at least one casserole — 
two is better — and a steamer which will cook at least 
two vegetables at the same time. These steamers 
are now on the market arranged in tiers, one on top 
of the other — from two to six compartments. They 
are recommended as gas savers. There are several 
types which a first class hardware merchant will 
show you. One good one has a chimney running 
through each steamer through which the steam es- 
capes into and from each compartment. You will 



Getting Your Kitchen Ready 47 

find the double or treble steamer ideal for cooking 
string beans, young carrots, etc. If your dealer 
hasn't one in stock he has them on catalogue. Make 
him order one for you. If, however, you don't get 
one immediately use your old-fashioned steamer. 
You can contrive to divide it if you wish to cook 
two vegetables. 

Much has been said recently in favor of the 
"Pressure Cooker" which is also steam confined imtil 
it reaches a pressure of twenty poimds. It will cook 
the toughest chicken in thirty-five minutes. If all 
that is claimed for it is true, it would be ideal. 

An article on the Pressure Cooker will be found 
in The Ladies Home Journal for February, 1921. 

There is also on the market now a very heavy 
cast aluminum ware called Stroluminum. In these 
utensils vegetables can be cooked with a few table- 
spoonfuls of water (the same as casserole cooking) 
and potatoes can be cooked in their skins — over 
the fire — with no water at all. 

If you can afford to add a fireless cooker to the 
list, do so. 

An ice cream freezer is also an excellent posses- 
sion. (Real ice cream and fresh fruit ices in the 
summer.) 

bakers' bread 

To those of you who must buy your bread, the 
bread will be the hardest problem. The so-called 
"whole wheat bread" made by the average baker is 
not worthy of the name. The soft, puffy stuff is 



48 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

next to worthless. The dark breads masquerading 
under various names (Health Bread, etc.) are in the 
same class. None of them are whole wheat, and 
because of their tasteless, unappetizing qualities 
they serve only to disgust the consumer. Eating oi 
these miserable substitutes he thinks he doesn't like 
whole wheat bread — and he has never tasted it. 

I believe that some few bakers have made an 
honest effort to make genuine whole wheat bread, 
but on the whole they have succeeded poorly. The 
methods used to handle white flour will not jvork 
out with whole wheat — ^hence all bakers "set the 
sponge*' with white flour. To this is added some 
80 per cent flour— and there you are. I even know 
of one baker who grinds his own flour, yet he 
mixes white flour with his bread. 

In almost every city in the United States there 
is a McFadden's Physical Culture Restaurant. 
Most of these make a genuine whole wheat bread 
and most of them will sell it for outside consump- 
tion. Some of these even have added a generous 
mixture of white flour — ^but the bread is a vast im- 
provement and is worth going after. 

Everyone who has a home can supplement the 
bakers' bread with frequent home made muffins and 
biscuits. The flour should be 100 per cent. If you 
use the 80 per cent which is on the market, add to 
it a little bran. 

But if you are in earnest at all in your desire 
to make your food lay the foimdation of health 



Getting Your Kitchen Ready 49 

for you and your family, Persist until you make or 
obtain genuine whole wheat bread. 

BUYING NATURAL BROWN RICE 

In doing your marketing don't mistake the 
un-coated rice for natural brown rice. 

You see the bran of the rice grain cannot be re- 
moved so easily as that of the wheat grain. Its bran 
clings very tight. To remove it the rice is put 
through a machinery process whereby the kernels 
rub against each other. This friction removes the 
bran in tiny particles — ^hence the term "polishings" 
and "polished rice." 

In addition to this — to secure a more beautiful 
whiteness — ^most of the food manufacturers have 
been putting the rice through a second process — 
i.e.: coating it with talcum powder. This talcum 
coated rice can be easily detected in washing — the 
talcum turns the water milky. 

Uncoated rice is merely polished rice which has 
not been coated with talcum. So much has been said 
about the debasing of rice that many high-class 
grocers have uncoated rice on exhibition. It is some- 
what yellow in appearance — ^but is nevertheless pol- 
ished rice. 

Natural brown rice is i/;2-polished rice containing 
both the bran and the germ. Some of the leading 
rice dealers are now handling it done up in poimd 
cartons, and any first class grocer can get it for you. 
It is a peculiar greenish buff color about as dark as 
oatmeal — and is labeled "Natural Brown Rice." 



VIII 
REFLECTIONS ON THE SITUATION 

When you have finished marketing — sit down in 
the quiet of your home and think about it. 

Why was it necessary for me to take this round- 
about course in order to obtain cereals in their 
natural state? 

Why was it impossible for me to buy a single 
pound of loo per cent whole wheat flour or entire 
corn meal ? 

Why must I buy a grinder or find some one who 
will improvise a milling machine and start a local 
center to supply lOO per cent flour to my neighbor- 
hood? 

Hundreds of pounds of bolted, denatured flour 
are being manufactured and sold every day. Why 
are not the millers compelled to make a icx) per 
cent flour? Why do not the grocers demand it? 

And the answer to the last will stare you in the 
face. The grocers demand what the people demand. 
And the people do not know. 

Didn't the grocer tell you there was no sale for 
brown rice? 

"But it seems to me," your suggestive mind will 

say, "the grocers could help to educate the people. 

Only yesterday I saw placards and slips explaining 

50 



Reflections on the Situation 51 

the use of a salad oil and a demonstration of a new 
breakfast food." 

"Oh, yes" — you will hear from your reasoning 
mind — "but those demonstrations were paid for by 
the manufacturers. That's advertising. The grocer 
is concerned with the bulk of his business. All ad- 
vertised packages sell." 

"Well, then" — ^you will go on with your reason- 
ing — "how will the people ever know? They are 
constantly being miseducated through just such ad- 
vertising. Why doesn't the government compel the 
manufacture of loo per cent meals? The govern- 
ment does know." 

And there your mind will come to a standstill. 

And while your mind is racing like a motor, eager 
to go on, there will rise before its vision a vista of 
innumerable possibilities. 

The word "Government" will call up very sud- 
denly a consciousness of power. Your power — a 
power you had thought very little about until now. 

Politics hadn't interested you particularly. You 
were satisfied to legislate your home. 

But when politics invade your home rule — ^that's 
different. 

When, in order to obtain the foodstuffs which you 
have learned are absolutely essential to maintain 
the health of your family, you must go out and 
combat single-handed the effects of a National folly 
you know that the time for action has come. 

Just where the road lies that leads to legislation 



52 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

you do not yet know — ^but you will leam. That is 
your decision. 

And as your mind goes on with its thinking you 
agree with Mr. McCann. 

The schools. That is the first step. The children 
must be taught. They will carry the education to 
their homes. As the people leam, the demand for 
loo per cent food will come. 

But what are the roads — ^what are the gateways 
that lead to school curricula? 

Superintendents of Schools, boards of education, 
city coimcils, state legislatures. 

If the Superintendents of Schools can be brought 
face to face with the facts as revealed through Mr. 
McCann's fund of knowledge, if they can be made 
to feel the importance of these facts with fathers' 
hearts; — theirs is the power to recommend the adop- 
tion of a nutrition course in the school curriculum. 

The power to act on such recommendation lies 
with the boards and legislatures. If the voice of the 
superintendent is not heard, the voice of the women's 
vote will be. 

"Isn't it appalling?" you will think. "These lOO 
per cent foodstuffs are beyond the reach of the plain 
people even if they should want them. How could 
the wife of a laborer with a large family and all 
her household cares go out and do what I have done 
today? It would be impossible. She is absolutely 
dependent on the comer grocer." 

And the more you think, the more clearly will 



Reflections on the Situation 58 

become fixed in your mind — ^yes, the school is the 
place for the education to begin. And when once 
they know the voice of the Mothers will be heard in 
the land. 



IX 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD— THE STAFF OF 

LIFE 

Most important of all the foods which go on 
your table is your bread. Three times every day it 
forms a part of your menu. Each and every mem- 
ber of your family consumes more of it than of any 
other single article of food. And from no other 
single article of food could they derive more nour- 
ishment, more of the blood-making, tissue-building 
elements, provided that this bread were made from 
whole wheat flower. Honest flour made from the 
whole grain with nothing added and nothing taken 
away. And such bread cannot be bought in the 
bakers' shops. 

The problem of making your own bread is not a 
pleasant one to consider, and yet since we now 
know that it means health to our children, let us 
face the problem directly. To keep them sturdy 
they must have whole wheat. Since we cannot buy 
it what are we to do? If it came to a choice be- 
tween nursing the children through an illness or 
managing the bread problem we would not hesitate. 
Yet that is precisely what it amounts to. 

The occasional whole wheat muffins or gems will 

54 



Whole Wheat Bread— The Staff of Life 55 

not do. It is the everyday bread which counts ; the 
steady continuous building, the building which 
spells resistance to disease. 

Mothers: — If the children have plenty of whole 
wheat bread and milk and nothing else you need not 
worry. 

And the reason is this: — ^Wheat contains every 
element which the body needs in the right pro- 
portions. Undoubtedly these elements are de- 
signed and proportioned by an All Wise Providence. 

The amazing fact is that nature picks with such a 
nicety that if any of the mineral elements are re- 
moved she rejects the others in like proportion. 

For example: — If only one-half the required 
amount of phosphorus is left in the flour she can 
use only one-half the iron, manganese, etc. If only 
one-tenth of any one mineral is left she can use only 
one-tenth of all the others. 

This same law governs plants as well as animals. 
No matter how rich a soil may be in iron or calcium, 
etc., if it is poor in phosphorus or potassium the 
plant selects and uses the foraier in proportion with 
the available quantities of the latter and thrives 
V^ell or ill, accordingly. 

None of us possesses such knowledge of the mys- 
terious workings of nature as to be able with all 
our intelligence to select and proportion our foods 
as nature herself proportions them. (Who knows 
where to get the exact mineral balance to make up 
the deficiency in white flour?) 



56 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Wheat is nature's own formula — a perfect food. 
Bread made from all wheat is verily "The Staff of 
Life." 

Shall we give our children a hollow porous staff 
or a solid sturdy one? Shall we let them grow 
frail and susceptible, or shall we steadily and con- 
tinuously build up their resistance? 

A MOTHER WHO WON 

Apropos of this steady, continuous building let 
me tell you the story of one little woman who made 
the fight and won. 

Mrs. F. C. Wheeler came to New York City about 
seven years ago. She was then the mother of three 
little girls (aged 7, 4 and 2). The fact that she was 
educated to the finishing point did not deter her 
from doing most of her own work and reveling m 
the joy of it. The happiness of an all-abiding love 
and her three precious kiddies made the monotonous 
grind a song. Some day, of course, Mr. F. C. was 
going to have a million dollars — ^but meanwhile 
here was Today with all its impurchasable joy- and 
busy-ness. 

Believing in the value of the home product Mrs. 
Wheeler had just succeeded in making white bread 
of the finest and most perfect quality when Mr. 
McCann arrived on the scene. 

What a lucky lady she was to have known him as 
a lifelong friend and thus to have derived the bene- 



Whole Wheat Bread— The Staff of Life 57 

fit not only of his fund of knowledge but of his very 
personal interest. 

But she didn't want to listen to his gospel. Her 
household was running smoothly, as a result of her 
intelligence. Why should she upset it all — change 
the whole system just to follow a fad? She 
wouldn't, that was all — and she turned a deaf ear. 

But he forced her to. Her children were very 
frail in spite of her care. The frequency of colds 
and sore throats and sudden temperatures was a 
source of worry. 

During one of these illnesses Mr. McCann made a 
special trip to her home. He appealed to her in- 
telligence and presented his arguments. He 
preached the gospel of whole wheat and from the 
numerous incidents of his experience gave to her 
proof after proof that on this one perfect article of 
food alone her children could be made strong. He 
asked her to try it for one year. No longer if she 
were not then convinced. She promised. 

Her intelligence and her mother's heart decided 
that her children were entitled to sturdy bodies and 
that if any extra effort on her part could give them 
that boon, then sturdy bodies they would have. She 
would make whole wheat bread. 

Her promise was given — not only to Mr. McCann 
but to herself. And having been given it was kept 
— ^not half way, nor once in a while — ^but com- 
pletely and faithfully as all promises should be 
kept. The reward is hers. 



58 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

One hundred per cent whole wheat flour is ob- 
tainable in New York so Mrs. Wheeler did not have 
that stumbling block to overcome. With lOO per 
cent flour she made whole wheat bread. 

But not so easily as that sentence soimds. Oh, 
no! Her first batches were total failures. Five of 
them. The sixth they managed to consume — ^but it 
was not good. She tried mixing some white flour 
with the whole wheat (as almost everyone does) and 
in this way managed to make a very good bread. 
But it was ^ot what she had set out to do. 

She had promised whole wheat. 

Accordingly she experimented and gradually 
worked out a recipe which is perfect. For six years 
she has made bread from this recipe. She never 
varies it and it never fails. But Mrs. Wheeler was 
not satisfied with bread alone. She made a clean 
sweep. White flour was practically banished from 
her household. Her mufRns, waffles, cookies, even 
pie crust are made of whole wheat. The recipes for 
all are given here after having been tested by the 
writer and found to work equally well in strange 
hands as in Mrs. Wheeler's. 

Since this innovation of whole wheat four more 
little girls have come to the Wheeler household 
(there being a five-year-old pair of twins for good 
measure), and if you doubt at all the value of whole 
wheat as a safeguard against frailty I wish you could 
see those kiddies — seven in all ranging in age from 
fourteen to three. Not fat — oh no — ^just sturdy and 



Whole Wheat Bread— The Staff of Life 59 

colorful and pictures of riotous health. They al- 
most never see a doctor and dentist's bills are un- 
known, though previous to their whole wheat diet 
they all had crumbly teeth. 

Seven little girls and no cascara bottle in the 
house ! Seven little girls and never a case of tonsil- 
itis nor any other illness — save a slight cold — in 
seven years! And don't forget that the first three 
were frail and susceptible six years ago. 

Mrs. Wheeler told me of the very great differ- 
ence in her own physical condition at the time these 
last babies came, of the splendid condition of her 
own teeth and many other proofs which make her 
bless the day she learned the value of whole wheat. 

But we will all admit that much of the credit is 
due to Mrs. Wheeler's own courage. She persisted 
until she won, — and she made her change complete. 

As she won — so can you. 

From all sides we hear that excellent bread cannot 
be made from lOO per cent wheat flour. Good bread 
which tastes good. Mrs. Wheeler's bread proves 
that this is not true. It is the best bread I have ever 
eaten. 

Try it yourself. (See recipe, p. 88.) 

Try it — and work out the plan for your own 
household. If you have a maid can't you bribe her? 
Surely the promise of a definite sum in extra pay 
will sweeten the request for the extra work. If you 
are your own maid — let something else go and give 



60 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

the kiddies a chance at the genuine Staff of Life. 
Build up their resistance. Bread alone will do it. 

Perhaps you might find some capable woman who 
at a fair price would bake the bread for your neigh- 
borhood or your friends. By doing this you would 
be spreading the good work. 



PART II 
PREPARING THE FOOD: RECIPES 



PREPARING THE FOOD 

It is assumed that your have now on your shelves 
a supply of: — 

1st. Breakfast grains. 

2nd. Whole wheat flour, and whole com meal. 

3rd. If you have not a small milling machine, 
you have made definite plans about your future sup- 
ply of loo per cent flours and meals. 

4th. You have casseroles and a steamer. (Pos- 
sibly even a fireless cooker.) 

5th. You have in your minds a knowledge of 
acid goods and how to balance them. (See p. 40.) 

If you haven't these, don't you think you had 
better get them? You can't start without the 
proper food supply and the proper utensils. Above 
all, don't start in a haphazard way. Start right and 
the road will be easy. 



63 



64 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



BREAKFAST GRAINS 

The entire wheat contains every element which the body 
needs. One hundred per cent Food Value. 

The outer covering, including the bran and the brown 
layers next to the bran, contain the precious minerals and 
vitamines which are removed in milling white flour. Hence 
for: 

Breakfast Wheat No. i 

* Get the entire wheat grain — unground. 

Cook in salted water for five or six hours in double 
boiler. 

In the .morning heat the quantity desired for breakfast 
and serve with milk or thin cream. 

Breakfast Wheat No. 2 

Get what the millers call "cracked wheat." Any miller 
who will sell you the whole grain will also sell this. In it 
the wheat is broken and therefore cooks quicker. 

Some people have secured the same result by putting the 
whole grain through a nut grinder. 

Cook in a double boiler at least one hour. 

Serve with milk or thin cream. 

Corn Meal 

If you have succeeded in getting (or grinding) undena- 
tured corn meal, prepare as follows: — 

Sift the meal through the fingers slowly into the boiling 
water, stirring all the time to keep smooth. Cook for twenty 
minutes in a double boiler. | 

Serve with thin cream. 



Preparing the Food 65 



Natural Brown Rice 

The best way to cook rice is directly over fire in broad 
shallow tin (as a milk pan). ^ 

To 1 cup of brown rice add 4^ cups of water and J4 
teaspoonful salt, bring to boiling point, turn down fire and 
allow to simmer exactly 35 minutes without stirring. 
Watch for the last 5 minutes and if necessary add l or 
2 tablespoonfuls of water. This is rarely necessary. 

Rice is made gummy and sticky by overcooking or 
stirring. If cooked and timed exactly as above each kernel 
should stand out separate and dry and thoroughly cooked. 

Stick a fork straight down into it here and there during 
the last minute or two. Watch the bubbles and be sure 
that all the moisture is absorbed. Unabsorbed moisture 
will also make it sticky. 

The above is the only successful and satisfactory way 
of cooking brown rice when it is to be served as a vege- 
table — but if for your breakfast food you prefer to cook 
it in a double boiler, proportion as follows : — 

To 1 cup of brown rice add 2j4 cups of water and J4 
teaspoonful salt. Cook in double boiler at simmering 
point exactly l hour without stirring. When done re- 
move the cover at once. The steam will make it soggy. 

Almost every cook book will direct you to cook rice 
in a large quantity of water and then drain and dry. Never 
do this. The liquid in which the brown rice is cooked is 
a valuable essence. It should be properly proportioned 
so that it can be absorbed by the rice. 

If white (polished) rice is cooked directly over fire, it 
it should have four parts water to one part rice and cook 
for 20 minutes only. But we are not concerned here with 
the successful cooking of polished rice. 



66 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



Oatmeal 

By oatmeal we do not mean rolled oats. We mean the 
old-fashioned coarse, steel-cut oatmeal. 

This should be cooked at least two hours at night and 
warmed through in the morning. 

Cooking it thus at night it continues to steam for a long 
time after the fire has been turned out. 

Serve medium thick with thin cream. 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes (Mrs. Wheeler) 

2^ cups of ( 100 per cent) whole wheat flour. 
5 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

1 level teaspoonful of salt. 
25^ cups of milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of molasses. 

1st, mix the flour, baking powder and salt. 

2nd, stir in the milk. 

3rd, stir in the molasses (the molasses is not absolutely 
necessary, but it makes the cakes brown more easily). 

4th, add the eggs, well beaten. 

5th, mix thoroughly and bake on a hot, well greased 
griddle. 

Whole Wheat and Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

(These cakes are delicious, but the corn meal must be 
100 per cent. You can't buy it at the grocers'. Grind it.) 

1 cup whole wheat flour. 
1 cup (undenatured) com meal. 
1 level teaspoonful baking powder. 
J4 level teaspoonful salt. 



Preparing the Food 67 

» 

2 cups sour milk. 

5^ level teaspoonful baking soda. 

1 egg- 

Buckwheat Cakes 

The buckwheat flour which is on the market is dena- 
tured, also. 

If you can succeed in getting some of the whole grain and 
grind it yourself, what could be more delicious than a break- 
fast of buckwheat cakes? 

Rice or Oatmeal Cakes 

Griddle cakes can also be made from the leftovers of the 
rice or oatmeal porridge. 



' 



68 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



MILK 

Few people understand the very great food value of milk. 
Most people give little thought to it. Like the whole 
grains it contains every element which the body needs — 
and furthermore it contains them in the most assimilable 
form. Therefore to the invalid or convalescent it is even 
more valuable than the whole grains. 

The sixteen elements necessary to life are all found in 
milk. The reason for this is obvious. Nature is an all- 
wise provider. The milk of the cow is the food for the 
calf. (The calf must grow and thrive, and build tissue 
and bone and muscle.) The food materials absorbed by 
the cow from the grasses and seeds are passed on to the milk 
to feed the calf. Science has proven that at least five times 
more of these essential materials are found in the milk 
than are found in the tissues of the cow. From this it 
must be clear to all that the food value of milk is five dmes 
greater than that of meat. 

The only food value of meat is its protein. The pro- 
teins of milk are more valuable because they are in more 
assimilable form. To the growing child milk is the great- 
est food in the world. Right into his blood go the food 
materials that make blood — for milk has in itself every con- 
stituent for blood making, except, perhaps, a sufScient 
amount of iron. This he can obtain from his whole grains 
and green leaves and raisins. 

And if the invalid or undernourished or convalescent 
could but understand the curative value of milk! Any 
other food requires a certain amount of energy to digest. 
Milk requires no effort of digestion. Almost immediately 
it enters your blood — as blood— being a blood maker. This 
is why the genuine milk cure has achieved such wonderful 



Preparing the Food 69 

results— even in cases which seemed incurable. Perfect 
blood will eliminate disease — ^and milk will make perfect 
blood. 

In hot weather try the combination of milk and fruit fqr 
breakfast or luncheon. (Do not add starch to this mix- 
ture.) If you are overweight, use skimmed milk. 

But, besides being the most beneficial food for man, milk 
is also the greatest germ carrier in the world. Every drop 
of it should be pasteurized before using — ^unless it is cer- 
tified. Certified milk is raw milk from cows which are in- 
spected regularly as to their health, their food and their 
general surroundings. 

Raw milk is better than pasteurized in cases where you 
can be absolutely sure of the health and cleanliness of the 
cows, and of the persons handling the milk. Even if you 
have your own cows their regular inspection by the Health 
Authorities is a very necessary measure; but where the 
milk is a mixture from several cows or herds^ pasteuriza- 
tion is an absolute necessity. 

In some communities this is a law. If you live where 
this law does not exist you may pasteurize it yourself as 
follows : 

Get a thermometer. Put the milk in a double boiler and 
heat it to 165 degrees Turn out the fire and let stand in 
heat for 30 minutes. (The temperature will drop to about 
145 degrees.) Then place in the refrigerator, at once. 

Every member of the family should have milk in some 
form every day, and every growing child should drink at 
least a pint a day — a quart is better. 

Milk and Honey 

Have you ever combined milk and honey? It b great. 
To a small glass of heated (not hot) milk add a teaspoonful 
of strained honey. Here is a drink to give the children. 



70 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Even the ones who don't like milk will enjoy it. In hot 
weather heat the milk (to dissolve the honey) and then 
put in refrigerator to cool. 

Use it in time of colds or irritated throats. The writer 
knows of a case of pneumonia cured on this treatment alone, 
the patient taking about two quarts of milk a day in small 
doses (combined with the honey) and no other food or 
medicine, though under the watchful care of a noted 
physician. 

But don't wait to be ill to enjoy this beverage. It is 
restful and refreshing at any time. Far better than "a cup 
of tea." Treat your friends to it. 



Preparing the Food 71 



BRAN— //J Necessity in the Diet 

There is a horde of people who are working in offices, 
etc., and living in rooms to whom the obtaining of home- 
made whole wheat bread or even genuine whole wheat 
grains for breakfast food is an impossibility. I wonder 
if you realize what this means to you? 

It is an absolute fact that those who start on whole 
wheat grain food today will discard all pills or artificial 
laxatives of any kind within a month. The bran of the 
whole grains is nature's own laxative. 

White bread and all refined food packs in the intestines. 
Constipation is the inevitable result. Don't treat thb mat- 
ter indifferently. The fact that it is a common ailment 
does not make it less serious. It is not only discomfort. 
It is disease. It is putrefaction within your body. Millions 
of bacteria excreting their poisons constantly for your body 
to absorb. And your body becomes saturated with these 
poisons. This is auto-intoxication (self-poisoning) which 
in time leads to the most serious and awful illnesses. 

If the danger of such illness does not frighten you — ^then 
think of constipation as plain filth. Have you ever seen 
a piece of meat in a state of putrefaction — alive with bac- 
teria? Do you like to think of that condition within your 
own body? You who are so dainty as to bathing and 
manicuring. 

Pills and other artificial laxatives do not relieve consti- 
pation ; they aggravate it. Take one cathartic and note the 
result the second day. Continue to take them and you will 
become helpless without them. (And there will be worse 
results.) 

Right food — Nature's formulas — contain the elements 
which will positively prevent constipation. If you arc 



72 What to Eaf and How to Prepare If 

one of the horde mentioned above who can not get this 
food — then help yourself in the following way: — 

Bran is Nature's laxative. The whole grains contain it 
in the right proportion. Failing to get those buy a package 
of bran and take a tablespoonful every morning. Let it 
be part of the day's cleanliness. It will be easy to follow 
the plan contrived by a certain lady for her traveling hus- 
band. 

She bought a box of very small envelopes. Into each 
envelope she put a tablespoonful of bran and sealed it. 
These she put in the box with her husband's handkerchiefs. 
Every morning one of these envelopes went into his pocket. 
He used it in the restaurant at breakfast. 

You can mix it with your cereal or just turn it into a 
saucer with a little milk. Take a very little at a time and 
don't try to chew it. Wash it down with plenty of water 
or milk. Severe cases may require a tablespoonful both 
morning and evening until regulated. 

Also the addition of prunes for breakfast will help to 
start the severe case right. The extreme case may need 
the use of an enema at night until regulated. Under no 
circumstance take a cathartic. It will double the fight. 
This treatment never fails. The very extreme case may 
take a month to regulate — but you will win if you persist. 

Besides doing this scavanger work the bran will give to 
your blood the precious mineral salts it carried with it 
from the wheat. 

Be careful, however, to get an un-processed, uncooked 
bran — bran just as it comes from the wheat,- — such as 
Pillsbury's. 



Preparing the Pood 78 



SOUPS 

The water in which spinach, asparagus, cauliflower, etc., 
are cooked should form the basis for soup. The mineral 
value of the vegetable is lost in the water and we must 
not throw this away. 

Aside from their mineral and nutritive value, the soups 
are delicious and appetizing. 

A dish of any of these soups, especially the thicker ones, 
with bread and butter, is sufficient for luncheon for children 
or adults. 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Take the water in which the spinach has been cooked. 
Boil down to about one-third the quantity of soup desired. 
Thicken with whole meal and season. A little tomato juice 
or fine parsley or both will add flavor. 

When ready to serve, add about twice as much milk as 
you have liquid. Bring to heating point and serve imme- 
diately. 

Do not allow milk to boil. ^ 

(Do not drown the spinach in water when cooking. Use 
only enough water. This makes a more concentrated liquid 
for the soup.) 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Same as Cream of Spinach Soup. Some of the stalk ends 
of the asparagus put through a sieve will give consistency 
and flavor. 

Do not allow the milk to boil. 

Cream of Onion Soup 

Same as Cream of Asparagus. Put some outer parts of 
onions through sieve. 



74 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup 

Same as Cream of Asparagus Soup. Put about 1/3 of the 
flowerets through sieve. 

In making any of the above soups, you may find it more 
convenient to proceed as follows : 

Put the quantity of milk desired for the soup to scald 
in the double boiler. This may be seasoned and thickened 
while the vegetable is cooking. When the vegetable is 
done drain the liquid into the scalded milk, add some of 
the vegetable through the sieve — and serve. 

If you have never eaten Cream of Onion or Cauliflower 
Soup — be sure to try them. You will be amazed at their 
deliciousness. I served the former at luncheon to a party 
of friends who said they did not like onions in any form. 
I put a generous quantity of the well boiled onion through 
the sieve, but was careful not to let a telltale leaf appear. 
They ate with relish and remarked its deliciousness. The 
joke was on them. There is wonderful mineral value in 
the liquid from boiled onions. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

This soup may be made same as cream of asparagus or 
as follows : 

Take two or three potatoes and about a dozen stalks of 
celery (the outer stalks of two or three bunches), leaves, 
roots and all. Cut into small pieces. Boil about three- 
quarters of an hour (or until soft). Put through sieve. 

Add butter, seasoning and milk and heat. 

Do not allow milk to boil. 

No thickening is needed with above. 

Mock Oyster Soup 

Take a bunch of oyster plant (salsify), scrape, cut into 
one-half-inch lengths, cover with water and cook slowly 



Preparing the Food 75 



about one-half an hour. (A small chopped onion cooked 
with them if desired.) When done, thicken, add milk, but- 
ter, pepper and salt and serve. 

If desired the oyster plant may be put through a colander 
or sieve and the thickening omitted. 

Vegetable Stock 

(Fine mineral tonic for the children or adults. Make 
fresh once a week.) 

Do not peel but scrub, cut and boil together all kinds of 
vegetables, carrots, parsnips, turnips, cabbage, leeks, celery, 
onions, beet leaves, etc., about equal quantities of each. Let 
simmer about two hours. 

Drain and keep liquid in cool place. 

Add to this the liquid from spinach, onions or any vege- 
tables as you happen to have it. 

Use stock for soup one day with unpearled barley, then 
rice, then diced vegetables and even as a cream soup made 
exactly like cream of spinach. Or serve it as plain vege- 
table consomme. 

Before serving consomme, however, add a sufficient quan- 
tity of cooked tomatoes to kill the sweetish flavor of the 
vegetables. About one part tomatoes to three of stock. 

This stock is excellent alkali for an acidosis patient. A 
cupful could be taken once a day whether served at the 
table or not. 

Vegetable Cream Soup 

First. Put one very slack level tablespoonful of brown 
rice to boil. 

Take one fair sized potato, one parsnip, one large onion, 
one carrot, three or four stalks of celery. 

Put through grinder or dice very small. 

Let the rice get a ten-minute start; then add vegetables 



76 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

and boil to a pulp. Let all of the water boil into the vege- 
tables. Add butter, seasoning. Stir to avoid burning. 

When ready to serve add one pint milk and bring to heat- 
ing point. 

Do not alfow milk to boil. 

This will serve four generously. 

The above with whole wheat bread and butter makes bh 
excellent and complete luncheon. 

Plain Vegetable Soup 

Take one of each of the tuber vegetables — (about same 
size) potato, parsnip, carrot, onion, three or four stalks of 
celery, including the leaves. Some cabbage leaves. 

Dice into small pieces. 

Boil about thirty minutes. 

Add generous piece of butter and seasoning. Add parsley 
if desired* 

Serve quite thick. 

The above contains all of the precious mineral salts and 
makes an excellent luncheon for children with whole wheat 
bread. 

Thick Beari Soup 

Soak over night two cupfuls of dry white beans. Do 
not drain. This liquid contains the soluble mineral salts. 

Boil at simmering point about six hours, adding butter 
and salt. 

Stir frequently and add water as needed. 

When ready to serve the beans should be broken open and 
soup should be rich and thick. 

Do not strain. The outer shell of the bean has its definite 
value. 

Serve with whole wheat bread or* oatmeal crackers. 



Preparing the Food 77 

Thick Pea Soup 

Get the dry green or yellow peas and make the same as 
bean soup. 
Do not strain. 

Thick Lentil Soup 

Dry lentils soaked and made same as bean or pea soup. 

(Whole wheat crs^ckers — unleavened bread — are very easy 
to* make. Keep on hand, to serve with soups and salads.) 

Swedish Health Bread can be bought in packages any- 
where. It is much like a large cracker and is made of entire 
oatmeal. It. is fine to serve with soups or salads. 

The tendency to make puree soups of all vegetables or 
legimies which contain any roughage is one of the evils 
of present-day cooking methods. 

None of us perhaps have realized that in straining the 
split pea or bean soups, etc., we are doing with these 
legumes precisely what the miller does to our grain. 

It is not only that we lose part of the food value in this 
way — but the roughage of this bran is necessary for the 
scavenger work of the body. 

Some people think that thb outer covering is "indigest- 
ible" — so it is — if by digestible you mean absorbable. Fine 
absorbable food is the curse of civilization. All such food 
packs in the intestines. The result is constipation. 

Our tastes have been cultivated until they are perverted. 
We are not even willing to chew. These thick old-fash- 
ioned soups are really very delicious. Cultivate a taste for 
them in the children. 

The thick bean or pea, soups may be improved by allow- 
ing them to cook until very thick and* then adding a little 
milk when ready to serve. ^ 

The only puree which our system allows is Cream of 



78 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Com. Cook the can of com for 5 or lo minutes, put 
through sieve, add milk and seasoning and serve. 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 

It was a revelation to me when reading "The Science of 
Eating" to learn that I had been throwing the best part of 
my vegetables down the sink. I, like most of you, had 
peeled my potatoes, carrots, turnips, et aL; boiled all the 
precious minerals out and thrown the water away. Many a 
time I had eaten spinach for the sole purpose of its mineral 
benefit and had lost the best part of it. I did not know. 

The water in which spinach, onions, cauliflower, aspara- 
gus, etc., are cooked should form the basis for soups. (See 
"Soups".) 

Vegetable juices can also be used in sauces as follows: 

Cook the vegetables in a small amount of water. When 
cooked till tender there should be just enough water to serve 
as sauce for the vegetable. Prepare as follows : 

No. I 

Drain vegetable,, saving juice. Have at hand a sufficient 
amount of butter for seasoning and whole meal for thicken- 
ing. Melt the butter, rub in the flour until smooth. Put 
the vegetable juice into the saucepan, stir in the mixture, 
stir until thick and smooth. Into this put the drained vege- 
table, heat and serve. 

The beaten yolk of an egg will greatly improve the above 
sauce. 

No. 2 

Some people find it easier to make the above sauce as 
follows : 

Drain vegetable, saving the juice. Stir into this a small 
amount of flour which has been moistened with a little 
water. Stir until thick. Add butter and seasoning. Put 
the drained vegetables back into the sauce, heat and serve. 



Preparing the Food ^ 79 

White Sauce 

(For Vegetables) 

Put a pint of milk into the double boiler to scald. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, rub into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Stir until smooth. Pour this slowly into the 
heated milk, stirring until thick and smooth. Season with 
salt. 

This sauce can be kept on hand in the refrigerator and 
thinned with a little milk as needed. 

For scalloped dishes a well-beaten egg is added to above. 
For fish sauce twice as much butter should be used. 



80 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



VEGETABLES 

All TCgetables after preparing should stand in cold water 
at least one-half hour before cooking. 

Vegetables should not be overcooked nor water-soaked. 
Learn to "time" your cooking so that everything will be 
done together, always allowing yourself five to ten minutes 
for preparing sauces and serving. 

The Mineral element in all vegetables can be conserved 
very easily if we will discard the old and form new habits 
of cooking. 

The value of this mineral element cannot be overesti- 
mated. It serves as a balance for meat or other acid-forming 
foods — thus keeping down the acidity of our blood. The 
following methods of cooking conserve all the minerals. 
Don't forget that these minerals are needed by the blood 
to keep the tbsues in a state of health. 

Carrots 

Young, tender carrots are sweet and delicate. They do 
not possess the strong flavor of the larger (winter) tuber 
which has been o£F the stem for a long time. They are rich 
in vitamines and mineral salts and should appear very fre- 
quently on our menus. 

They should be scraped, cut lengthwise into quarters or 
eighths and may be plainly served in three ways : 

1st. Cooked in a casserole with a very little water (just 
enough to keep from burning), a very little (or no) salt and 
a generous dab of butter. 

2nd. Steamed and served with butter or white sauce. 

3rd. If boiled they should be served in their own juice. 
See Vegetable Sauce Nos. i and 2. 



Preparing the Food 81 

The best way to serve the older carrots in the winter is 
steamed and served with white sauce thinned with milk. 

Turnips 

Young, white turnips should be peeled and' cut in thin 
slices. They may be — 

1st. Cooked in a casserole with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls 
of water, salt, pepper and butter. 

2nd. Steamed and mashed with plenty of butter. 

3rd. Steamed and creamed with white sauce. 

Rutabagas are best sliced thin, steamed and mashed. This 
is also true of white turnips when older. 

Parsnips 

Parsnips arc a winter vegetable. They are rich in min- 
erals — especially calcium, potassium and phosphorus. 

They also should come back into greater popularity and 
appear on our menus once or twice a week. 

1st. They are most delicious served with stews and 
fricassees. When served this way they may be cut into 
slices lengthwise, boiled and their juices used for the gravy 
of the meat. 

2nd. Cut into slices lengthwise, steamed and turned over 
in browning butter (not fried), but deliciously seasoned 
this way. 

3rd. Steamed and served with white sauce. 

4th. Diced and creamed. For this they may be boiled 
and served in their own juice prepared as for carrots with 
some milk or cream added, but never boiled. 

Potatoes 

The richest of all the tubers in minerals. Boiled it loses 
its minerals in the water and becomes an acid food because 



82 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

of the great anurant of starch. Baked, the minerals predom- 
inate and more than neutralize the acid of the starch. 

Couldn't we go back to our childhood habits and ''Let's 
pretend" there is only one way of cooking potatoes? If the 
family tires of his brown coat let him disappear from the 
table, endrely for two or three days. He will be very wel- 
come when he comes back. 

For yariety, however, potatoes may be served in any of 
the following ways: — 

1st. Baked (thoroughly scrubbed first) and served im- 
mediately when done. Standing makes them soggy. 

2nd. Stu£Fed. For this bake as above. When done cut 
in two (or cut a slice off lengthwise), scoop out the inside, 
mash, season with salt, butter and milk. Return this to the 
sldns, pin together mth toothpicks and bake in moderate 
oven for five to ten minutes. 

3rd. Steamed in their jackets. They must be removed 
from steamer the moment they are cooked, otherwise they 
are soggy. They may then be peeled (remove the brown 
skin only) and served plain or mashed. New potatoes are 
delicious turned over and over whole in butter browning 
in a frying pan. 

4lh. Scalloped. Sliced into a casserole with plenty of 
milk and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 

5th. Au gratin. Same* as 4th with generous layers of 
grated cheese. Steam them first — in skins. 

6th. Lyonnaise. Same as 4th with layers of thinly 
sliced raw onions. 

The last three ways are not so good as the first because 
the potatoes are peeled. However, their jmces are not en- 
tirely lost. 

Onions 

Onions are rich in sulphur, iron and other minerals and 
vitamines. Our grandmothers pinned their faith to the cura- 



Preparing the Food 88 

tive value of "Onion Syrup" in colds — and with good reason. 

Try to have onions in some form once or twice a week. 
Besides the minerals and vitamines which they contain they 
are a splendid body regulator. They are really a leafy 
vegetable but you may alternate them with your tubers. 
There is probably no vegetable of greater value than the 
humble onion. 

Chopped and used as seasoning they are well appreciated, 
but as a vegetable in their own right they are not half so 
popular as they should be. They may be served: — 

1st. Baked in their skins. (They require about as much 
time as potatoes.) Then peeled and served with butter. 
They are delicious. 

2nd. Steamed and served with butter or white sauce. 

3rd. Boiled — ^the water saved for soup — and served with 
butter or they may be served in their own sauce (prepared 
as for carrots) to which is added the beaten yolk of an egg 
and a little cream. 

4th. Cooked in a casserole with milk butter and season- 
ing. 

Cabbage 

Cabbage is very rich in sulphur and hydrogen. Its food 
value is greatest served raw in salads. It is sometimes made 
very indigestible by wrong cooking or over cooking. It 
should not be boiled with greasy meats. Instead it should 
be prepared, quartered and soaked in cold water for at least 
an hour before cooking, then — 

1st. Steamed one hour or until tender, placed in shallow 
dish, cut fine and served with salt, pepper and butter or 
with white sauce thinned with cream. 

It will cook quicker if cut into coarse shreds. 

It also seems more delicate this way. 

2nd. Boiled about three-quarters of an hour in an 



84 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

uncovered kettle — ^the liquid used for soup stock — ^and served 
same as above or creamed. 

If you are not making soup stock try cream of cabbage 
soup or else steam the cabbage. 

3rd. Cooked in a casserole (1 hour) with a little water, 
butter, pepper and salt. Never use vinegar on cabbage. 

Savoy {Curly Cabbage) 

This cabbage b very delicate and digestible. It should be 
prepared and served the same as cabbage. It takes less time 
to cook, 20 to 30 minutes being sufficient. 

Brussels Sprouts 

The most delicate of all the cabbage family. To pre- 
pare, remove the loose outer leaves, let stand in cold water 
30 minutes. Steam ^ of an hour (until tender), and serve 
same as cabbage. They may also be cooked in a casserole 
the same as cabbage. 

Cauliflower 

Separate into flowerets and let stand in cold water one 
hour, then — 

1st. Steam and serve with butter sauce or white sauce. 

2nd. Boil — about 20 minutes. Use the juice and about 
% of the flowerets for cream soup and serve cauliflower 
same as above. 

3rd. Au gratin — first cook the cauliflower, then place in 
casserole, pour over it some white sauce thinned zoith cream. 
sprinkle grated cheese over top and brown. 

4th. Au casserole with milk, butter, pepper and salt. 

Celery 

The outer stalks which are not fit for the table are appe- 
tizing and beneficial when cut into pieces, stwed and served 



Preparing the Food 85 

in their own sauce. The same should be thickened with meal 
and flavored with butter and the beaten yolk of an egg 
added. 

Asparagus 

Rich in mineral value. Boiled, the water makes a most 
delicious cream soup. The simple ways of serving are: 
The entire stalk on toast or cut into inch lengths and served 
with butter or cream or white sauce. 

There are many- fancy asparagus dishes, but always save 
the liquid for soup, or else steam the asparagus or cook in a 
casserole. 

Spinach 

Rich in mineral value, especially potassium, iron and 
iodine. Like all of the green vegetables it should appear 
on the menu often. It may be: — 

1st. Cut fine or put through the meat chopper (to reduce 
its bulk) and cooked in a casserole without water, seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter (about 20 minutes.) 

2nd. Boiled — the water used for cream soup and served 
with salt, pepper and butter. The hard boiled yolks of eggs 
may be sliced and arranged on top. 

3rd. Spinach may also be cooked directly over the fire 
without water. (This, however, requires watching to keep 
from burning). It may then be creamed by adding a little 
milk, butter and seasoning. 

There are several fancy ways of preparing spinach, all of 
which are good provided the juice is not wasted. 

Beet top and other greens are cooked in the same way as 
spinach and the water used for soup stock. 

(Never use vinegar on greens.) 

String Beans 

String beans or butter beans may be steamed or cooked in 
a casserole and served with butter or white sauce. 



86 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Lima Beans 

Almost CYcry good cook gives you explicit directions as to 
how to remove the outer skin of the bean. Dismiss these 
directions from your mind. The outer skin like the bran of 
the wheat has its definite value. Do not remove it. 

To stew fresh lima beans, cook directly over fire about 
20 minutes letting water boil well down, then transfer to a 
double boiler and let simmer about 30 minutes. Add but- 
ter, salt and pepper and serve. (Add milk or cream also if 
desired.) 

Dried lima beans should be soaked overnight. In the 
morning do not drain — add sufficient water, bring to boiling 
point, turn down fire and allow to simmer 3 or 4 hours. 
They should be served in their own juice which, when suf- 
ficiently cooked, should be quite thick. Flavor generously 
with butter. The flavor is improved by boiling with them 
for the last half hour a small bag of sweet Marjoram and 
thyme. French people like to cook with them the left over 
bone of roast lamb for flavor. 

Dried White Beans^ Peas and Lentils 

Prepare the same as lima beans whether they are to be 
used as soup, served plain or baked. They need several 
hours cooking. 

The fireless cooker is ideal for the above. 

Brown Rice 

Brown rice is so rich in nutriment that it is wise to con- 
trive as many ways as possible to serve it appetizingly. 
Following are some suggestions: — 

1st. It may be served as a vegetable instead of potatoes 
with butter, pepper and salt. (For directions see p. 65.) 

2nd. It is delicious with fricassee of chicken (or other 



Preparing the Food 87 

fricassee) arranged around the platter in mounds and served 
with plenty of gravy, or: — 

Rice with Poached Eggs 

Boil 1 cup of rice and while rice is cooking make a dress- 
ing as follows : — Put i tablespoonf ul of butter into a sauce- 
pan, melt, and rub into it i tablespoonf ul of flour ; into this 
stir slowly lj4 cups of vegetable stock (or milk or water) ; 
season to taste; pour over the rice and serve with poached 

eggs. 

The dressing for above may be varied by using tomato 
juice instead of the stock (rub canned tomatoes through a 
sieve), or a mixture of tomato juice and chopped mushrooms 
and onions. The latter is delicious. 

Scalloped Rice 

Boil rice until tender, salt it. Arrange a layer of rice and 
a layer of grated cheese, another layer of rice and so on — 
having cheese on top. Moisten very well with milk and 
bake until brown. 

Brown rice may be substituted for macaroni or spaghetti 
in any of your recipes for the latter. 

Brown rice fritters are delicious. 



88 What to Eat aMd How to Prepare It 



BREADS 

Too much stress cannot be laid upon the importance of 
your whole wheat bread. Following is the recipe given to 
us by Mrs. Wheeler, the story of whose whole wheat family 
can be found on page 56. 

Follow this recipe exactly^ not approximately. Mrs. 
Wheeler never varies it and it never fails. 

To use it successfully you must have a bread mixer. The 
dough b very thin, very sticky and hard to handle. The 
reason for this is obvious ; the bran absorbs the moisture in 
cooking, hence the dough requires more water than other 
flours. 

Lighten your flour before using; i.e.: — ^handle it twice. 
It packs too heavy in the bag. Transfer it from bag to 
other receptacle before measuring. You may sift it and 
examine the siftings for cleanliness — but the siftings must 
be put back into the flour. 

Do not fill the bread pans too full. They must not over- 
flow in the cooking. 

Also do not use deep bread tins — ^2j/$ to 3 in, is deep 
enough. A good sized tin is 8j4 in. by 3^ in. by 2% in. 
bottom measurements. 

Do not cut the bread until the day after it is baked and 
use a very sharp knife. You can ruin a good loaf by cut- 
ting it with a dull knife. 

The recipe follows: — 

Whole Wheat Bread — (Mrs. Wheeler) 

Dissolve one cake of yeast in one cup of lukewarm water 
before you do anything else. Set it aside to dissolve. 

Next combine the following ingredients, being sure to 



Preparing the Food 89 



have the water warm enough so that the completed mixture 
will be lukewarm. 

1 level tablespoonful of butter. 

2 level tablespoonfuls of salt, 

3 level tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1% cups of milk. 

4 cups of lukewarm water. 

To this combination add the dissolved yeast. Be sure 
that the whole thing is lukewarm. Insufficient warmth will 
ruin the result. 

Add now 13 1-3 cups of whole wheat flour, and turn in a 
bread mixer for seven minutes. Don't fail to use a mixer, 
as this dough is very thin and sticky. 

Cover the top of the mixer, and let it stand in a warm 
place for from four to six hours. If the dough takes six 
hours to rise it has had insufficient heat either in the mixing 
or during the rising period, and the bread will probably not 
turn out as well as it should. The ideal rising period is a 
trifle over four hours. The dough should rise till it is al- 
most twice as high in the mixer as at first, the risen dough 
filling an ordinary sized mixer about two-thirds full. 

Divide the dough into three parts, put it in buttered bread 
pans, and set it aside in a warm place till it rises to the top 
of the pans. Before rising in the pans the dough will fill 
each pan a little more than half full, if they be full sized 
pans. (If small the above makes 4 loaves.) For the dough 
to rise in the pans should take eighteen to twenty minutes. 
A good way to get enough warmth to cause this rapid rise 
of the dough is to light your oven and place the dough 
near it. 

When you put your bread in the over be sure that the 
oven is very hot. After the bread has been in that heat for 
five minutes turn the burners lower, to the point which will 
give what you ordinarily consider a "moderate" oven. Bake 
for fifty-five or sixty minutes, changing the location of the 



90 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

pans in the oven occasionally so that all sides will bake 
evenly. On removing from the oven, butter the tops of the 
loaves, and let them stand to cool. As a result of this 
method of baking the loaves will have a thick, firm crust, 
and the bread itself will be light. Don't cut the bread till 
the next day, and when you do, use a very sharp knife. In 
cutting, save the crumbs by sweeping them off the bread- 
board into a special crock. They can be used for thicken- 

ing." 

You will note that no mention is made of kneading the 
bread or forming into loaves. When the dough is suffi- 
ciently risen in the mixer, turn the mixer crank a few times, 
then take the soft dough right in your hands and put it 
directly into the buttered bread tins — ^which should be hot. 
Heat is a real factor all the way through. 

In just one way the above recipe varies and that is the 
time for cooking. Sometimes the bread may need an hour 
and a quarter or even an hour and a half, depending on 
your oven. Test it with a straw and listen for the absence 
of sound before removing from oven. 

The appearance of the loaf is flat and brown almost like a 
fruit cake. 

Put raisins into a loa^. It will be much like fruit cake. 

If you have failed in your locality to procure lOO per cent 
flour, use the kind which is on the market (80 per cent) plus 
a little bran (about a tablespoonful to each pound), plus 
one or two cups of graham. With this mixture, however, 
you cannot use above recipe. It will require more flour. 
The dough must not be so thin and sticky as above and yet 
must be considerably softer than a white flour dough. 

Persist until you secure 100 per cent flour. 

Plain Whole Wheat Muffins 

2 cups whole wheat flour 
1/3 cup sugar 



Preparing the Food 91 

1 rounding teaspoonful baking powder 

^ teaspoonful salt 

1^ cups sour milk 

Yz level teaspoonful baking soda 

1 egg 

1 tablespoonful butter (melted). 

Mix the dry ingredients. Beat the egg, add the milk, 
then the melted butter, then the dry ingredients. Beat 
well and bake in 12 greased gem tins 17 to 20 minutes. 
Very hot oven first 5 minutes, then moderate. 

If sweet milk is used omit the soda and use two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. -) ■ 

Chopped raisins or dates can be added to this recipe. 

Whole Wheat Fruit Muffins — (Mrs. Wheeler) 

(One Dozen) 
J4 cup brown sugar 
J4 cup of butter or J4 cup of sawtay 

2 eggs 

y^ cup of milk 

Yi cup chopped raisins and dates 
2 cups of whole wheat flour 
2 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
Yi level teaspoonful each of cloves, salt, allspice, ginger, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. 

1st. Cream the butter and sugar. 

2nd. Add the beaten eggs. 

3rd. Mix the dry ingredients together and add them. 

4th. Put in the milk. 

Bake in muffin tins for about 35 minutes. Have the oven 
very hot for the first five minutes. After that use a moder- 
ate oven." 

Old'Fashioned Nut Loaf 

3J4 cups of whole wheat flour 

4 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder 



92 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

% cup sugar 

1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup chopped raisins 

1 egg 

2%. cups of milk 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. 

Mix the flour, baking powder, salt and sugar; beat the 
egg, stir in the milk; into this stir the dry ingredients, add 
the nuts and raisins last. Let stand in warm place for 20 
minutes and bake in moderate oven for 50 minutes. This 
also, like plain bread, sometimes takes longer to cook. Test 
it with straw. Unless dry it b not done. It may take 11/3 
hours. 

For Date Bread use i^^ cups dates instead of nuts and 
raisins — or 1 cup dates and ^ cups nuts. 

Date Gems 

2 eggs 

% pound dates 

1 cup milk 
ij4 cups flour 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
yi teaspoonful salt. 

Beat the yolks; add the milk, the flour and beat until 
smooth; add the baking powder and the dates, chopped. 
Mix thoroughly. Bake in twelve greased gem pans, in a 
quick oven 30 minutes. Serve hot. 

Chopped raisins may be substituted for dates. 

Whole Wheat Crackers 

(Unleavened whole wheat bread) 

Mix J4 pint of milk with J4 pint of water. Rub into l 
quart of flour, two tablespoonf uls of butter ; add gradually 



Preparing the Food 98 



the milk and water. You must have a hard, ahnost dry 
dough. Knead this dough for fifteen minutes, then pound 
it with a hatchet or ordinary beefsteak pounder, folding it 
over, enveloping the air. Cut the dough into quarters ; roll 
each piece just as thin as possible. Cut into rounds or 
squares, lay them in a lightly greased pan, and bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp and slightly brown. The only 
thing to be remembered is that the dough must be very hard 
and must be well manipulated. 

Whole Wheat Waffles— {Mrs. Wheeler) 

3 cups of whole wheat flour 
2 cups of milk 

2 eggs 

3 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
1 level teaspoonful of salt 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1st. Mix the flour, baking powder and salt. 

2nd. Add the milk. 

3rd. Add the eggs, well beaten. 

4th. Mix thoroughly, and bake on a hot waflie iron* 

Southern Com Pone 

2 cups sour milk 
^ teaspoonful salt 

J4 (level) teaspoonful baking powder 

1 tablespoonful melted butter 

2 cups coarse corn meal. 

Mix salt and meal, add melted butter. Dissolve soda in 
milk and stir into meal. Stir well. Make small oblong 
"pones" about J/$ inch thick. 

Place in greased pan and bake until brown. 



94 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Johnny Cake 

cup whole wheat flour 
cup com meal 
/3 cup sugar 

rounding teaspoonful baking powder 
yi teaspoonful salt 
^ cup sour milk 
^2 level teaspoonful baking soda 

tablespoonful butter (melted). 

Mix the dry ingredients. Beat the egg, add the milk, 
then the melted butter, then the dry ingredients.. Beat 
well and bake in greased shallow tin 17 to 20 minutes. 
Very hot oven first 5 minutes, then moderate. 

The above may be baked in gem tins if desired. 

Any good recipe you may have for muffins, etc., can be 
used substituting whole wheat for white flour ; using a little 
less of the whole wheat (slack cupfuls). 

Whole Wheat Pie Crust— (Mrs. Wheeler) 

The following recipe makes top and bottom crust for 
two pies. 

3 cups of whole wheat flour 
^ of a teaspoonful of salt 
^ of a teaspoonful of baking powder 
J^ of a cup of butter and sawtay, or any good shorten- 
ing 
9 tablespoonf uls of cold water. 

Whole wheat pie crust is more brittle than that made 
with white flour, and is therefore difficult to roll into a 
single sheet. It tastes equally good, however, when cut into 
strips. 



Preparing the Food 95 

Whole Wheat Flour to Thicken Gravy 

(Mrs. Wheeler) 

Put one cup of whole wheat flour in a dry skillet; stir 
continually over a fire till it is brown. Add this to the juice 
of the roast, with the amount of water necessary to give it a 
satisfactory consistency. Add a pinch of salt. This use pf 
the whole wheat flour giv^ a gravy of much more delicious 
flavor than can be made with white flour. 



I 



96 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



SALAD HINTS 

HaTc salad, salad, salad. Mix and udlizc raw green 
things of all kinds. Use left orer Teg^bles — ^but always 
with the crisp lettuce leaves and the delidons, nourishing 
dressings. 

Don't use vinegar — ^use lemon jnice instead. In the good 
old days when vinegar was ''dder" it was not so bad, but 
keep the adds which are called "vinegar** today, out of the 
reach of the children. Lemon juice tastes better, it is a 
food and it brings out the flavor of odier fruits and vege- 
tables. 

All green leaves contain the vitamines. All green leaves 
are rich in minerals. Many of these are more effective in 
their raw state than when cooked. 

Have a salad at every dinner. 

Have a crisp head lettuce — or water cress — or water cress 
and young dandelion greens, or lettuce with left over string 
beans, etc., etc The variety is endless. 

Mixed Vegetable Salads 

May be made from any available mixture of cooked or 
raw vegetables. 

Suggestions : — 

Asparagus and green peas served on a lettuce leaf with 
French dressing or mayonnaise. 

Left over boiled beets may be diced and served on a 
lettuce leaf mth something white — such as diced apple or 
shredded cabbage. Boiled dressing— celery — nuts. 

During spring and summer the raw vegetables and greens 
should be used as much as possible. Two which should be 
used as often as possible and with any mixed vegetable 
combination are spinach and grated or ground carrots. 



Preparing the Food 97 

Spinach is most rich in iron and other minerals. Some 
of this value is lost in cooking no matter how careful you 
may be. Raw, the taste is not pleasant — Whence take one or 
two raw spinach leaves, chop very fine and sprinkle over 
any and every salad you make. Disguised with the salad 
dressing they make a palatable tonic. Use as much of the 
spinach in this way as you can without detracting from the 
flavor of the salad. 

This is also true of grated or ground carrots. 

No. 1. Try diced apple and ground carrots and nuts 
served on lettuce with a sprinkle of spinach and a boiled 
salad dressing. 

or 

No. 2. Shredded cabbage and ground carrot and raisins 
with a sprinkle of spinach served with mayonnaise or French 
dressing with an extra dash of lemon juice. 

or 

No. 3. Shredded cabbage and diced apples with chopped 
raisins and a boiled salad dressing. 

Serve grated carrots with your left over string beans or 
your diced beets, — or any other combination your fancy may 
direct. 

Keep a few spinach leaves in the icebox for above pur- 
pose. Remember — they will not add to the flavor of any- 
thing — you are using them for their tonic value. 

Use chopped chives or parsley frequently. 

Use chopped raisins, chopped dates and chopped nuts 
ynth any vegetable salad mixture. Sprinkle a few nuts on 
any or everything. 

Raw cabbage has also greater value than cooked. And 
it is available in all seasons. Shred and serve in any com- 
bination you wish. But do not soak it with vinegar. Any 
salad dressing. 



98 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Cabbage Salad 

The f ollomng recipe for cabbage salad was giyen me by 
an old German honsemfe. 

Strip from the head the tenderest leayes. Cut out 
the thick center leaf vein. Lay three or four of these half 
leaves together, roll as tight as possible. With a very sharp 
knife shave sections through the roll. The shavings should 
be extremely fine. 

Rub a salad bowl with garlic (or mix some finely chopped 
onion mth the cabbage), place the shavings in bowl, season 
to taste, mix well with French dressing, cover and let stand 
over night (or for several hours before using). 

Tomatoes 

Are very popular, and with reason. They are very rich 
in minerals and vitamines. Their combinations and fancy 
salads are numerous. With the seeds scooped out and the 
bowl filled with diced cucumbers and served on lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise or bmled dressing they are delicious. 

If served plain — sliced — they should be eaten with nei- 
ther sugar nor vinegar. Just salt or any salad dressing. 

The discovery of Water Soluble C in tomato juice and 
the further discovery that cooking did not destroy this vita- 
nune have given to the tomato a new significance. This is 
the vitamine which protects against scurvy, hence tomato 
juice is now given to infants who are fed on pasteurized 
milk in cases where orange juice is not available. 

Cucumhers 

The peeling of the cucumber should be quite thick. The 
cucumbers should then stand in very cold (preferably iced) 
water for at least one hour before using. Then sliced very 
thin and served on lettuce leaves with French dressing. 



Preparing the Food 99 

Cucumbers are used in all sorts of combinations. In most 
of these the seeds are scooped out and the meaty part diced. 

Cucumbers should never be served soaked in vinegar. It 
is this which has made them "disagree" with many people. 

If you can possibly eat them, cucumbers are one of the 
most valuable of the spring vegetables. If they have here- 
tofore disagreed with you perhaps you ate them with vine- 
gar or with the wrong combination of other foods. Plain 
starch (such as boiled potatoes and white bread) will not 
combine with cucumbers. Your distress may not have been 
the fault of the cucumbers at all. Try them once at a meal 
at which you eat neither potatoes nor white bread. The 
genuine — 

Combination Salad 

Is head lettuce leaves, sliced cucumbers and tomatoes. It 
is best served with French dressing or mayonnaise. 
But there are so many "combinations." 

Waldorf Salad 

Is diced apples, chopped nuts and celery serveo with sweet 
boiled dressing. 

Fruit Salads 

Any combination of fresh raw fruits served on lettuce 
leaves with boiled salad dressing and generously sprinkled 
with nuts is delicious and rich in mineral salts. 

Cooked fruits were never intended for salads nor cock- 
tails. The raw fruit combinations in both salads and cock- 
tails are served without sugar. The original — 

Fruit Salad 

^Was a combination of oranges, diced bananas, Malaga 
grapes and nuts, served with boiled dressing. 



100 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

A banana split lengthwise, sprinkled with nuts served on 
a lettuce leaf is served also with boiled dressing but a diced 
banana and nut salad is best with equal parts of olive oil 
and lemon juice» mixed drop by drop. 

Carrot and Cottage Cheese Salad 

Carrot and Cottage Cheese Salad is made of about equal 
parts of cottage cheese and ground carrots with about 1/3 
the quantity of chopped nuts. Season to taste and flavor 
generously with lemon juice. 

Cream Cheese and Crushed Fruit 

Most of you are familiar with the cream cheese and bar* 
le-duc mixture. (Bar-le-duc is a combination of red cur- 
rants, lemon juice and honey.) A similar paste can be 
made of the cheese and any small fruit jam or jelly. These 
mixtures are delicious served with crackers. 

Cream cheese is also good with chopped raisins or figs or 
with cooked (or canned) pimento which has been put through 
the grinder* 



Preparing the Food 101 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

When lemons are to be had do not use vinegar In salad 
dressings. There are three reasons. The lemon juice is a 
food in itself; it will give a better flavor to the dressing; and 
it brings out the natural flavor of other fruits. 

Don't use plain vinegar on anything. 

French Dressing 

Real French dressing is made with 4 parts oil to 1 part 
lemon juice. The lemon juice should be beaten into the oil 
drop by drop. A pinch of salt and a dash of paprika are 
added to taste. It will keep indefinitely in a cool place. 

For fruit salads where French dressing is desired it should 
be equal parts of oil and lemon juice. The latter brings out 
the flavor of the fruit. This is good with a grapefruit or 
diced banana salad. 

Mayonnaise 

Place two egg yolks in small sized old-fashioned mixing 
bowl, which runs to a point at the bottom. Beat with a fork 
first. Add one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful 
dry mustard and a dash of cayenne. Then take Dover egg 
beater (the one with the wheel and rotary motion) and have 
some one drop in olive oil drop by drop while you beat 
constantly. When the mixture gets very stiff, drop in the 
same way about one-half tablespoonful of lemon juice. 
This thins the mixture. Then add more oil until very thick, 
then more lemon juice and so on until dressing has right 
consistency and flavor. It usually takes the juice of one 
small lemon to a half pint can of olive oil. The oil must 
go in very slowly at the start or the mixture will separate. 
When it is smooth and about half made, the oil may be 



102 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

added faster (one-half teaspoonful in a tiny stream), like- 
wise the lemon juice. 

This dressing should be tightly covered and kept in a 
refrigerator. It will keep for several days. 

If it separates, either during mixing or after standing, it 
can be made smooth again by taking another egg yolk and 
beating mixture into it almost as slowly as above. 

"Droppers" for making this dressing can be bought at 
any hardware store for ten cents. 

Cream Mayonnaise 

Make mayonnaise exactly as above and just before serving 
beat into it very thick well whipped cream using about equal 
parts of cream and mayonnaise. Thin whipped cream will 
not answer. This dressing is delicious with crisp head 
lettuce — ^with lettuce and tomatoes or with fruit salads. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

2 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 cup lemon juice and water 

1 cup milk 

1 tablespoonful flour 

1 teaspoonful dry mustard 

1 level teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put the milk to scald in double boiler ; melt butter ; rub 
butter and flour together until smooth; add the beaten 
eggs. Into this stir the hot milk. Return to double boiler 
and cook until the eggs are cooked; stirring constantly two 
or three minutes. Remove from the fire and stir in slowly 
the sugar, salt and mustard (moistened in a little water). 
Return to fire and cook until thick and smooth, stirring 
constantly. When almost done add the lemon juice. 



Preparing the Food 108 



FRUIT 

Fruit is one of God's blessing to man, delicious, appetiz- 
ing, it stimulates the flow of gastric juices. Grateful to 
the parched throats of the sick; eagerly eaten by children 
it has, unknown to themselves, saved the lives of many 
people whose bodies were otherwise mineral starved. 

With the minerals removed from our grains and the 
waste of the soluble mineral salts in cooking our vegetables, 
fruits have indeed been a God-send; for fruits are mineral 
laden to the last degree and also contain in abundance the 
water soluble vitamines B and C. 

Cultivate your taste for fruits of all kinds Increase the 
demand and thereby encourage the fruit farmer, which 
will increase the supply and thus fruits will be cheaper. 
Let us all help to get these precious life savers within the 
reach of the poor. 

Eat fresh fruits and fresh fruits in season — at any or 
every meal and between meals. Their value has been 
much underestimated. Give them to the children instead 
of candy. Serve them in salads and cocktails. Serve the 
latter without sugar. Sugar is not an appetizer. 

Serve fresh fruit always without sugar — ^this means 
grapefruit, oranges, et al. AH fruit contains its own 
natural sugar in sufficient quantities. If it is not good 
enough to eat in its natural state — let it alone. Why should 
you need sugar on sliced oranges at the table — you relish 
the whole fruit without sugar between meals — (Habit). 
Sugar does not mix with fruit acids and very often sets 
up a fermentation in the stomach. Teach the children to 
enjoy their fruit without sugar. They will like it just 
as well provided the sweetened habit is never formed. 

It is the sugar and starches (white bread, cake, etc.), 



104 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

eaten with fruit which sometimes cause intestinal disturb- 
ance. It is very rarely the fruit 

A tablespoonful of lemon juice in a glass of cold water 
on a hot summer day b refreshing and will quench your 
thirst. (Sweetened lemonade will not.) 

Cooked fruits are not so good as raw fruits. Cooking 
destroys some of the natural ferments and vitamines. 

Some people have the false idea that fruit is add and 
therefore must not be eaten with milk or in certain illnesses. 
This is not true. Fruit acids are immediately changed in 
the stomach and converted into their alkaline salts, thus 
forming the bases for neutralizing the acids of your body. 
Eaten raw and without sugar there is no better food for an 
acidosis patient. 

Raisins contain more iron than any other article of food. 
Use them in every available way. Soaked overnight and 
boiled for a few minutes in the morning they are an ex- 
cellent breakfast fruit. 

Grive raisins and dates to the children instead of candy. 

Sun-dried fruits of all kinds are excellent. The pale 
(beautiful looking) dried peaches and apricots are dried 
with sulphurous acid (pobon). Select the dark ones. They 
are cheaper and better. 

Ask for sun dried fruits. 



Preparing the Food 105 



NUTS 

Nuts of all kinds are rich in food value. Becaus* of 
their protein content they are an excellent substitute for 
meat. 

Hickory nuts are perhaps the most delicious cake nuts 
obtainable. The Brazil nut, being so rich and oily, is not 
so good in cake or nut loaf as the hickory nut or pecan or 
English walnut. 

The latter are also the best for salads or candies. 

Almonds may be blanched and salted at home and make 
an excellent dessert in themselves. 

Nuts, however as dessert, are best served in their shells. 
There is less danger of eating them too rapidly and the 
element of sociability while picking and nibbling enters into 
the digestibility of the meal. 

Use chopped nuts generously in salads and desserts. 
Serve them with raisins or figs for dessert frequently. Give 
them to the children instead of candy. 



106 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



DESSERT SUGGESTIONS 

Any plain cake recipe which you have can be made with 
the 80 per cent flour — or with equal parts whole wheat 
(100 per cent) and white. The fancier cakes, such as 
Angel food and Sunshine cake, will, of course, require 
white flour. 

Once in a while, anyhow, you will "cheat" a 'little on 
your desserts. There will come the day for a delicious, 
flaky-crusted, fresh berry pie (do not give the crust to 
the children), and for the ever-popular, always-welcome 
strawberry shortcake. These, however, can be made of 
whole wheat. Try them. 

But if the body of your meal is carefully planned and 
the bulk of your dietary is along health building lines, a 
little spree now and then won't hurt you. It b the general 
living plan that we are fighting for. 

Following are some light desserts: — 

Prune Whip 

Cook twenty large, meaty primes until tender, stone, shred 
and beat to a pulp. Add to them a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Beat the white of 3 eggs until stiff. Add two table- 
spoonfuls granulated sugar. Fold in the prunes a little at 
a time beating constantly. Bake in moderate oven about 
fifteen minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

Queen of Puddings 

Very similar to old-fashioned bread pudding, only made 
of whole wheat. Take the dry pieces of whole wheat bread, 
soak in one quart of milk about one hour. Then stir into 
this the beaten yolks of 2 eggs; sweeten with brown sugar 



Preparing the Food 107 

and season mth nutmeg. Bake in moderate ovtn 20 to 30 
minutes. Remove from oven and spread over top generous 
dabs of home made jelly. Beat the egg whites until stiff, 
add slack tablespoonf ul of sugar, spread over top and brown. 

Marshtnallow Pudding 

Beat four egg whites to a stiff froth. Dissolve one 
rounded tablespoonful of powdered gelatine in one-half cup 
of cold water; then add one-half cupful of boiling water. 
When cool beat slowly into the egg whites and whip in 
one-half cup of sugar. Add flavoring or a few fresh or 
evaporated apricots mashed to a pulp. Stir until mixture 
hardens. Serve with whipped cream. 

Charlotte Russe 

To one-half pint of best quality whipping cream, add one 
generous teaspoonful vanilla and one heaping tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt. Beat with Dover 
egg beater until very stiff. (No gelatine or other thickening 
is needed.) Line five or six sherbet glasses or small tea- 
cups with split ladyfingers. Fill with above mixture and 
put on ice until ready to serve. 

Noodle Custard 

Cook one cupful of fine homemade noodles until tender. 
Drain. Add two well beaten eggs to a pint of milk, season 
with sugar, salt and nutmeg. Pour over the noodles and 
bake in moderate oven until thickened and brown. 

Stewed Figs 

Soak in hot water large pulled figs for six or eight hours 
or overnight. Boil for two or three minutes. Drain off 
the juice and boil down to a thin syrup. Pour over the figs. 
Serve with or without cream. 



108 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



Fruit Ices and Frozen Fruits 

If yoQ get an ice cream freezer the recipes for above will 
accompany the freezer. The fruit ices made with gelatine 
and fruit juice taste infinitely better than ''store" ice cream 
and are very inexpensive. 

Real home made ice cream once in a while — made mth 
real cream u a treat fit for the gods. 

Whole Wheat Layer Cake— (Mrs. Wheeler) 



3 «gg» 

lyi cups of sugar 

yi cup of butter 

lyi cups of milk 

3 cups of whole wheat flour 

^ teaspoonful of salt 

yi teaspoonful of nutmeg 

3 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder (Royal). 

1st. Beat the eggs well. 

2nd. Add the 8ugar» butter, milk, salt and nutmeg. 

3rd. Add the flour gradually. 

4th. Add the baking powder. 

Have the oven very hot for the first five nunutes; after 
that bake in moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 

Use any kind of icing. 

Rhubarb Pudding 

In the spring make a batter on above redpe (or on any 
cake recipe). Get young strawberry rhubarb cut into 
inch lengths. Stir two cups of the uncooked rhubarb into 
the batter and bake in moderate oven* 

Serve with any pudding sauce. 



Preparing the Food 109 



Huckleberry Pudding 

Make same as above, using two cups of fresh, uncooked 
huckleberries instead of the rhubarb. 

Shortcake 

Bake a pan of whole wheat mufiins (see recipe). Split 
them, butter them. Serve them open on the dessert plate 
with generous serving of berries or sliced peaches on top. 

The fruit should be cut and sugared a half hour before 
serving. 

This is better than any kind of white-flour shortcake. 

Serve hot. 



110 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



SOME UNUSUAL RECIPES 
(To Vary Monotony) 

Chicken Chop Suey 

Take about three cupfuls of left over chicken, cut into 
small pieces, place in frying pan with butter or fat, shake 
or stir over fire until brown. Remove from fire and drain 
off any surplus grease. To this add two cups of celery cut 
into inch pieces, two cups of onions cut small and two cups 
of oriental sprouts. To this add water, not enough to 
cover, but enough to keep moist — season with salt, pepper 
and paprika and let simmer about three hours. Stir occa- 
sionally and add water if needed. When ready to serve 
add oriental sauce if desired — though this is not necessary. 

Cook one cup of brown rice and serve with above. 

If you have not oriental sprouts at hand put three cups 
each of celery and onions (equal parts with quantity of 
meat cooked). 

The above can also be made with other meat than 
chicken. Cut the raw meat into inch squares, brown and 
proceed as above. 

It will also be found easier to put the mixture into a 
shallow dish — set the dish inside of an old-fashioned steamer 
and steam two to three hours. For this use less water. The 
fireless cooker is ideal for above. 

Celery and Nut Loaf^ 

1 tablespoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls grated onion 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

1 tablespoonful grated cheese 
* Eugene Christian. 



Preparing the Food 111 

2 eggs 

1% cups toasted bread crumbs 
lyi cups strained tomato 
^ cup chopped nuts 
1 cup celery chopped fine. 

Add all ingredients to the strained tomato ; mix well and 
last add the stiffly beaten eggs. 

Bake in a well oiled tin about 35 or 40 minutes. 

Serve with cream or parsley sauce. 

This is fine for a meatless meal. 

Corn Roast ^ 

1 cup of stewed (or canned) com 
3 teaspoonfuls of grated onion 
^ cup chopped nuts 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

1^4 cups toasted bread crumbs 

Salt, pepper or paprika. 

Beat the eggs and add milk, corn, salt, pepper, bread 
crumbs and nuts and onion. Mix well and let stand 10 or 
15 minutes, then bake in a well oiled pan 35 or 40 minutes. 

This is fine for a meatless meal. 

Scalloped Salmon 

Make a white sauce as per direction on page 79. To this 
add a well beaten egg and stir until thick. This is sufficient 
for one large can of salmon. Grease a baking dish and put 
a layer of salmon and then a layer of white sauce, then an- 
other layer of salmon and so on. White sauce on top. 
Cover the top with cracker crumbs or rolled bread crumbs 
and bake for 20 to 30 minutes. 

* Eugene Christian. 



112 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Salmon ana Rice 

'Cook one cup of brown rice and line well greased baking 
dish. Flake one large can of salmon. Make dressing as 
follows : 

Beat 2 eggs, ^ cup of milk, i tablespoonful of butter 
and seasoning. Stir this into the salmon, place in nest of 
rice, cover with a little rice and steam for i hour. If baked, 
casserole must have cover and set (preferably) in pan of 
water in oven. Serve with or without white sauce. 

Salmon Loaf 

Into 1 small can of salmon stir i well beaten egg, j^ cup 
milk and i cup crumbs. Season well with salt, pepper and 
paprika. Bake in well buttered dish for fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Any of the above dishes may be made substituting tuna 
fish for salmon. Some people prefer the more delicate flavor 
of the tuna fish. 

Tuna Fish Salad 

Flake the fish and use about equal part chopped celery. 
Moisten well with boiled dressing which has been thinned 
with lemon juice. Season with salt, pepper and paprika. 

A French dressing made of equal parts oil and lemon 
juice and some chopped sweet peppers may also be used 
with above. 

or 

Serve the tuna fish plain at same meal with an excellent 
combination salad and eat them together. 

Coddled Eggs 

Instead of boiling eggs cook as follows: — ^Place eggs in 
cold water over fire. When the water reaches boiling point 



Preparing the Food 118 

remove from fire immediately. Leave the eggs in this hot 
water for exactly five minutes. This is the only way that 
eggs should be served to a delicate stomach. The white 
remains creamy and is infinitely more digestible. 

Baked Bananas 

Wash ripe bananas and bake in skins in moderate oven 
for 15 or 20 minutes, until thoroughly soft all through. 
They are done when juice begins to How. Serve with cream. 

They seem light, but two baked bananas will take the 
place of a cereal or a potato. They can form the body of a 
breakfast or luncheon. 

They should not be served after an otherwise complete 
meal. We eat too much. 

If preferred they may be baked until soft without skins. 



114 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



VEGETABLE TONIC 

(A fine mineral toiiic for children — or adults.) 

Get all kinds of fresh vegetables. If in season get the 
young ones with the tops on, fresh and juicy. Gret every- 
thing — a bunch or two of carrots and tops, beets and tops, 
turnips and tops, parsnips, onions, spinach, lettuce leaves, 
cabbage leaves, cucumbers, etc. (Never use rhubarb leaves 
— they are poison.) 

Put all through a grinder. (Place a receptacle under the 
grinder. The juices will flow.) 

When chopped put into jelly bag and let drip overnight. 
In the morning press the remaining juices out with a small 
fruit press or any instrument you can contrive. (Will not 
someone devise and put on the market a small hand vege- 
table press?) Keep the juice thus obtained covered and in 
a cool place. Give the children a tablespoonful or a small 
wineglassful every day. 

The value of the above tonic lies in the fact that it*is 
uncooked and unadulterated. It is, therefore, a concentrated 
vegetable essence rich in both minerals and vitamines. It is 
fine for everybody in the spring — especially to the anemic or 
run down individual. 

Quite a lot of trouble — yes ; but the kiddies are worth it. 

To Steep Bran 

Place contents of a package of bran in a large kettle and 
pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it. 'Contrive 
some way on your own stove to maintain the heat for 12 
hours — Do not boil. Drain off the liquid. You will need 
to press the bran through a sieve, vegetable press or with 
your hands. 



Preparing the Food 115 

Keep in cool place and use i or 2 glasses per day. 

(Do not imagine that the above is a laxative. It is not. 
The dry bran must b,e used for that.) The above has min- 
eral value for an acidosis patient. 



116 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



SWEETS FOR THE KIDDIES 

Besides your stock of homemade jams and jellies 
(or when they run low) following are some quick 
marmalades which can be made in winter and which 
are excellent for bread spreads and sandwich fillers. 

In addition to the regular three meals it is a good 
plan to give the children a systematic lunch after 
school. Not much. Perhaps just an apple or two 
cookies or a sweet sandwich or a glass of milk or 
nuts and raisins, etc. And just the amoimt given 
them. Not a continuous "piecing." If there are 
two or more children, let each child understand 
that his share is just that — ^no more. Don't weaken 
and you will have no trouble — ^but succumb to 
coaxing once and your troubles will begin. Chil- 
dren know their power. It rests with you. 

Hate and Cranberry Marmalade'^ 

Simmer together for 30 to 40 minutes 1 quart of cran- 
berries and 1 pound of stoned* dates in 1 pint of water with 
2 cups of brown sugar. 

Dried Apricot Conserve 

Soak overnight ^ pound of apricots in 2 cups of water. 
In the morning add 1 cup of raisins, the juice of 1 lemon; 
1 whole orange sliced thin and cut into small pieces and l 
cup of honey. Let simmer 1 to ij4 hours. When almost 
done add ^ cup cut nuts. If too tart add brown sugar to 
taste. 

Use these marmalades as bread spreads. 

*Tech. Educational Bulletin No. 30. 



Preparing the Food 117 



SWEET SANDWICH FILLERS 

Date Sandwiches 

Put 1 pound of stoned dates through a meat chopper. 
Add the juice of i orange and rub to a paste. 
Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Date and Fig Sandwiches 

Put a half pound of dates, ^ pound of washed figs and 
' M pound of almonds (or other nuts) through a meat chop- 
per — add the juice of an orange (or a little warm water) 
and pack the mixture into a half pound baking powder box. 
Dip the box in hot water. Let stand for lO minutes. Turn 
out the mixture and cut into thin slices. Put a slice of the 
mixture between two thin slices of buttered bread. These 
are better than cookies. 

Walnut Sandwiches 

Mix 1 cup chopped nuts with ^ cup boiled dressing 
thinned with cream. Place a thin layer on a lettuce leaf 
between two slices of buttered bread. 

Date Tarts ^ 

(For Children's Parties.) 

1st. Make a paste with 5^ pound chopped dates and ]/2 
pound chopped pecans or almonds moistened with a little 
orange juice. 

2nd. Cut thin slices of whole wheat bread and cut same 
into circles or stars. 

3rd. Spread y^ of these pieces with above paste. 

*Mr8. Rorer. 



118 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

4th. Take the other half of the bread slices and cut 
center holes with a very small biscuit cutter or wine glass 
(not more than 1^ inches across.) Butter these rings, place 
on top of first slices and fill holes with home made jelly or 
jam. 

Plain Whole Wheat Cookies 

]/2 cup butter 
1 cup sugar 

1 egg 

2 tablespoonfuls water 

^2 level teaspoonful bicarbonate of soda 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

3 cups whole wheat flour. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the egg and beat again 
well. Gradually beat in the sugar, add the soda dissolved 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of water, then the milk and last the 
flour slowly. The quantity of flour may vary a trifle. The 
dough must be quite stiff. Knead until the mixture will 
hold together. Roll very thin, places in well greased pan 
and bake in moderate oven about 7 to 10 minutes. 

Like all whole wheat mixtures this dough is very brittle 
and difficult to roll. When ready to roll, see that your 
board is well dusted with white flour, pat the dough down 
with the hands as well as possible first, and dust the rolling 
pin with flour after each and every sweep. 

Whole Wheat Hermits 

Make dough same as above up to kneading point. Don't 
knead. Add J^ cup milk or water and 1 cup each of 
chopped raisins and^nuts (spices if desired.) Drop from 
spoon (about three inches apart) on well greased pan and 
bake same as cookies. 



Preparing the Food 119 

Whole Wheat Cookies — (Mrs. Wheeler) 

^ cup of butter 

1 cup of brown sugar 

1 cup of molasses 

5^ cup chopped nuts and raisins (optional) 

1 level teaspoonful each of salt, cloves, nutmeg, allspice 

and ginger 

2 level teaspoonfuls of soda; dissolved in ^ cup of hot 

water 
y cups of whole wheat flour. 

1st. Mix the butter, brown sugar and molasses. 

2nd. Add spices and salt. 

3rd. Add the dissolved soda. 

4th. Add the flour. 

5th. Roll the mixture to yi inch thickness ; cut with a bis- 
cuit cutter and bake in a moderate oven. 

Sometimes it is necessary to add 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of 
milk if this mixture is too dry to roll. 



120 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



CANDIES 

Peanut Brittle 

1st. Spread the peanuts singly over the bottom of a well 
buttered pan, dust with a very little salt. 

2nd. Put 1 cup of granulated (cane) sugar into a smok- 
ing hot frying pan (it must be smoking hot), with no water 
and stir very rapidly until all melted. 

Pour this over the peanuts and let stand until cool and 
crisp. 

Divinity Fudge 

2 cups granulated sugar 

J4 cup water 

^2 cup honey 

1 cup nuts 

Whites of 2 eggs 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put the sugar, water and honey into saucepan. Stir over 
fire until the sugar is melted, then boil slowly until it 
"hairs" — or forms a hard ball in water. Have the egg 
whites beaten stiff and the moment the sugar mixture "hairs" 
remove from the fire and pour very slowly into the egg 
whites while some one else beats latter constantly. When 
all mixed continue to beat rapidly. The mixture will be- 
come a white froth. It is sufficiently beaten when you can 
feel the grain in your fingers or taste same. The success 
of the candy lies in the beating. It may take ten, fifteen or 
even twenty minutes. It is very stiff and hard to beat 
toward the end. 

Add the vanilla at any time while beating and the nuts 
when it begins to stiffen. 



Preparing the Food 121 

Turn out into well greased platter, let stand until partly 
cool. Then cut into squares and let stand again. It is best 
after some hours standing. Corn syrup or maple syrup may 
be substituted for honey. 

Pinoche 

1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup milk (or thin cream) 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 teaspoonful butter 

}i to J4 teaspoonful cream of tartar (just a pinch) 

^ cup pecan or walnut meats 

Tiny pinch salt. 

Mix the milk, sugar and cream of tartar, stir over fire 
until sugar is melted. Boil slowly until it "hairs" when 
dropped from spoon (or will form soft ball in cold water). 
Add nuts and remove from fire. Let stand to cool about a 
minute. Beat until it begins to thicken. Then pour at once 
into well greased platter. When cool cut into squares. 

Creamy Fudge 

Shave two squares of chocolate. Pour over this J4 cup 
of milk. Stir constantly over fire until melted. Then add 
another % cup of milk and stir again until perfectly smooth. 
Remove from fire and add 2 cups of granulated sugar, i 
level tablespoonful of butter and J4 cup of corn sirup. 
Stir all over fire until sugar is dissolved. Then boil slowly 
until it will form soft ball in cold water (about lo minutes). 

Remove from fire, add i teaspoonful of vanilla and beat 
until creamy. Add nuts if desired. 



PART III 
COMBINING THE FOOD: MENUS 



XI 

FOODS FOR MINERAL VALUES AND 

VITAMINES 

First, milk. 

Second, the whole grains. 

Third, the fresh vegetables, edible leaves and 
fruits. 

These three roads lead to health. On the way 
we pick up lime, iron, phosphorus and all organic 
mineral salts; also "fat soluble A" and "water solu- 
ble B and C" — the vitamines. 

MENUS 

The following menus are handed to you as the last step 
in the bridge to your new routine. You have left the 
"Meat and potatoes and (white) bread and butter" dinner 
on the other side of the bridge and are about to start a 
dinner plan which shall consist chiefly of "Whole wheat 
bread, two fresh vegetables and a salad." 

These menus were planned with a judicious balance of 
acids and bases as well as a balance in food values. Their 
chief aim is health. 

A sufficient number and variety of combinations are given 
to start you right. After a while your own ingenuity and 
judgment will add to, and vary them so that monotony 
will be impossible. 

It is a most wise thing for everyone to make a radical 
change in his diet once in a while. Almost everyone eats 

125 



126 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

too much of some one thing. This b especially true of meat. 
Meat is not at all a necessary food. Its only value is pro- 
tein. There is plenty of protein for your needs in your 
other foods. Most people eat meat because they like it— or 
because the habit is formed. Let us modify the habit and, 
for the children anyhow, let us have meat only about twice 
a week. An overload of protein is the cause of much illness. 

At a meat meal not more than one-fourth the quantity of 
food eaten should be meat — ^and not that much if eaten 
every day. 

One of the reasons why meat is such a generally favorite 
food is because it is so often the only really tasty article 
of food on the table. If as much care were exercised to 
make vegetables or meat substitutes taste good there would 
be less danger of craving or eating too much meat. 

Breakfast and luncheon should both be light meals. 

For these, therefore, a lesser number of suggestions are 
given. The following will suffice : 



Breakfast Menus 
(For the Anemic or Convalescent or Undernourished) 



1. 

Fresh fruit — 2 kinds 

Milk — 4 (J/^ pint) glasses 
Bran — i tablespoonful. 



Fresh fruit 
Milk — 2 or 3 glasses 
Whole wheat muffin (l) 
Bran (if constipated). 



Combining the Food: Menus 127 



3' 

Prunes with cream 

1 coddled egg 

2 or 3 whole wheat muffins 
2 glasses milk. 



Good Breakfasts for All 

1. 



Stewed figs 

Cereal (whole grain), cream 
Whole wheat toast and butter 
Milk — 1 or 2 glasses. 

2. 

Fresh fruit 

Baked banana (2) 
Milk — 1 or 2 glasses. 

3- 

Fresh fruit 

Whole wheat griddle cakes 

Maple syrup or genuine cane syrup 

Prunes with cream. 

4- 

Fresh fruit 

Cereal (whole grain), cream 

Coddled eggs (1) 

Whole wheat (or corn) muffins. 

Apples may be eaten every morning with just as good 
results as though the fruit varied. Baked bananas are best 
eaten as the body of the meal instead of a muffin and in 
addition to other fruit. When eaten raw they should be 
so ripe that the skin is discolored. 

Change the cereal from morning to morning, remember- 
ing only that it must be prepared from the whole grain — 
thus: 



128 What to Eat aad How to Prepare It 

Orange juice 
Brown rice with raisins 
Com meal gems 
Prunes with cream 
1 glass milk. 

2. 

Canteloupe (or fruit in season) 
Whole wheat grain with cream 
5 or 6 figs 
1 glass milk. 



Grapefruit (without sugar) 
Oatmeal with cream 
Whole wheat toast 
1 glass milk. 

4- 
Baked apple with cream 

Corn meal or brown rice with cream 
1 slice whole wheat toast. 



5- 

Stewed figs or stewed raisins 

Whole wheat and corn meal cakes, butter and maple syrup 

1 or 2 glasses of milk. 

In cold weather the milk should be lukewarm. In these 
menus no mention is made of tea or coffee. That is left to 
your own discretion. Children, however, should never have 
either. 



Combining the Food: Menus 129 



Luncheon Menus 

The anemic or person underweight may take for lunch 
another 3 or 4 glasses of milk with fruit and a date muffin 
or whole wheat muffin or baked banana. 

It would be best for the busy man or the girl who works 
if they would order at noon such lunches as : 

1. 

Corn — 1 or 2 ears 

Milk or buttermilk — 1 or 2 glasses 
Fruit. 

2. 

Cream soup 

Whole wheat or corn muffin or rye bread 

Fruit and nuts. 

3- 

Corn muffin with butter 

Something green 
Nuts and raisins. 

4- 

Vegetable soup 

Graham wafers 

Fruit or nuts and raisins with cream cheese. 

It sounds like nothing at all until after you have eaten it 

Other Lunches for Children or Adults 

1. 

Baked bananas (2) 

Milk, 1 or 2 glasses 

An apple 

Nuts and cream cheese. 



180 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

2. 

Whole wheat bread and butter 
Fresh spinach or asparagus 
Milk — 1 or 2 glasses 
Dates and nuts. 

3- 

Com pone or muffin, butter 
Buttermilk — i or 2 glasses 
Cheese and rabins. 

4- 

Any cream soup 

Whole wheat muffins or Johnny cake 
Water cress or lettuce 
Nuts and raisins. 

5- 
Corn on cob (i), butter 

Milk or buttermilk — i or 2 glasses 

Baked bananas ( i ) 

Nuts and raisins. 

6. 

Poached egg 

Toasted whole wheat bread 
Milk or buttermilk 
Fruit. 

For the younger children whole wheat bread and butter 
with honey, a glass of milk and an apple makes an excellent 
luncheon. 

Also a bowl of soup, whole wheat bread and butter and 
an apple. 

Dinner Menus 

Proving how unnecessary is meat in the prepara- 
tion of a delicious meal, following are fourteen full 



Combining the Food: Menus 181 

four course dinners which do not include meat. The 
first seven include the fresh vegetables available in 
spring and summer; the second seven include those 
which are available in the winter. 

To those who eat these meatless menus for the 
first time, it will seem when you start your meal as 
though there were "nothing to eat" — ^Try it. The 
result will be that you will eat far more plentifully 
of the vegetables and salads than you have hitherto 
done. You will rise from the table satisfied, but 
without the stuffed, uncomfortable feeling; more- 
over you will grow to like these meals. I have seen 
it prove out again and again — even in the case of 
men who had always thought meat was the great 
essential. The meals contain every clement you 
need. If after eating one you crave meat it is a sure 
sign that the "appetite" has possession of you. 
This craving will disappear. 

The menus follow : 

Fourteen Meatless Menus 
Spring and Summer 

1. 

Cream of asparagus soup 

Oatmeal crackers — Radishes 



New potatoes turned over in brown butter 
Asparagus. New beets in butter 
Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad — Cheese 

Charlotte russe. 



182 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

2. 

Cream of corn soup 

Whole wheat or oatmeal wafers 

Young onions 

New potatoes in cream 
Green peas — Young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Crisp head lettuce 



Cream cheese and crushed fruit with crackers. 



3- 

Cream of spinach soup 

Oatmeal wafers — Green onions or radishes 



New potatoes turned over in brown butter 
Spinach — ^Young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Carrot and cottage cheese salad — Nuts 
Raspberry ice» made of fresh fruit. 



4- 

Cream of celery soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



New potatoes — ^baked 

String beans — Young, very tiny beets, leaves and all 

Whole wheat bread 

Crisp head lettuce or water cress 



High grade gelatine dessert — ^Nuts. 

5- 
Any of the "Vegetable Stock" soups ^ 
Oatmeal wafers — Radishes or celery 



Combining the Food: Menus 188 

Butter beans — Very tiny beets, tops and all 
Whole wheat bread — Milk 
Combination salad — Nuts 



Peach ice — Made from fresh fruit, or strawberry shortcake. 

6. 

Any cream soup 

Oatmeal or whole wheat wafers — ^Young onions 

Brown rice (Served as a vegetable with butter) 
Green peas — Young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable (or combination) salad 

Figs and cream cheese 
Fruit. 

7- 
Any cream soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Sliced tomatoes 



Young turnips (steamed and mashed) 

Corn on cob — ^Young carrots or young beets 

Whole wheat bread — Milk 



Crisp head lettuce or mixed vegetable salad 
Charlotte russe or noodle custard. 

Fall and Winter 

1. 

Thick bean soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Hubbard squash (steamed and mashed) 
Baked onions 
Whole wheat bread 



184 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Combination salad 
Figs with cream cheese. 



2. 

Vegetable cream soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Scalloped potatoes — Brussels sprouts 
Johnny cake 

Endive or head lettuce — Nuts 

Prune whip. 

3- 

Thick pea soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Scalloped rice — Creamed parsnips 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable salad 
Nuts, raisins and figs. 



Cream of cauliflower 

Oatmeal or whole wheat wafers — Spanish onions 

Stuffed potatoes — Cauliflower — Lima beans 
Whole wheat bread 



Waldorf salad 



Queen of puddings or peach shortcake* 



5- 
Mock oyster soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 



Stuffed potato — Creamed carrots — Stewed celery 
Johnny cake 



Combining the Food: Menus 185 

Fruit salad 

Nuts and raisins. 

6. 

Vegetable consomme (see "Vegetable stock'*) 
Oatmeal or whole wheat crackers — Celery 
Corn roast 

Scalloped potatoes — mashed turnips 
Whole wheat bread 



Head lettuce 
Noodle custard. 

7- 

Cream of celery soup 

Whole wheat or oatmeal crackers — Celery 

Savoy — Creamed parsnips or carrots 
Home baked beans 
Whole wheat. bread 

Fruit salad — Nuts 



Charlotte russe or prune whip. 

You will find several menus without potatoes. Learn to 
plan one or two meals a week without them. 

Seven Menus Including Meat 

Following are seven course dinner menus which include 
meat with a judicious balancing of off-setting (alkaline) 
foods. 

1. 

Chicken soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Celery 

Fricassee of chicken 

Brown rice — Parsnips (turned over in brown butter) 

Whole wheat bread 



186 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Mixed vegetable salad 
Fruit. ' 



Cream of spinach soup 
Oatmeal wafers — Celery 

Roast lamb 

Baked potatoes — Spinach 

Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad 

Raisins and figs. 



2. 



3- 



Cream of asparagus soup 
Whole wheat crackers — Radishes 



Roast lamb 

Potatoes (steamed in skins, then mashed) 

Fresh asparagus or string beans 

Fruit salad 



Huckleberry pudding or shortcake. 

4- 
Thick bean soup 

Oatmeal crackers — Celery 



Crisp broiled bacon 

Oyster plant — Brussels sprouts 

Whole wheat bread 



Combination salad 
Noodle custard. 



Vegetable consomme (See "Vegetable Stock") 
Whole wheat crackers — Ripe olives 



Combining the Food: Menus 187 

Broiled lamb chops — Baked potatoes — Creamed carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable salad 
Fruit. 

6- 

Fruit cocktail — Celery 



Porterhouse steak (broiled) 

Baked potatoes — String beans or young carrots 

Whole wheat bread 



Combination salad 



Peach ice (made of the fresh fruit). 



Grapefruit cocktail 

Chicken chop suey 
Brown rice — Celery 
Whole wheat bread 

Head lettuce 

Charlotte russe. 



Seven Menus^ Including Meat Substitutes 

Following are seven dinner menus which include definite 
meat substitutes. 

1. 

Cream of cauliflower soup 

Oatmeal wafers 



Scrambled eggs 
Scalloped potatoes 
Cauliflower — ^butter sauce 

Whole wheat bread 



188 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



Head lettuce 

Nuts, figs and raisins. 



2. 

Cream of asparagus soup 
Whole wheat crackers — Radishes 



Tuna fish 

New potatoes in cream 
Fresh asparagus 
Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad 

Prune whip. 



3- 



Plain vegetable soup 
Oatmeal wafers — Celery 

Corn roast — Spinach 

Sweet potatoes — Whole wheat bread 

Endive salad 

Figs and cream cheese. 



Vegetable cream soup 
Whole wheat crackers 



Scallops, oysters or fish 
Baked squash — Stewed celery 
Whole wheat bread 



Fruit salad 
Stewed figs. 



Cream of onion soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Radishes 



Combining the Food: Menus 189 

Broiled white fish 

Baked potatoes — Baked onions 

Whole wheat bread 



Head lettuce 
Prune whip. 



6. 



Pea soup 

Whole wheat crackers — Ripe olives 

Rice with poached eggs (See recipe) 
String beans or young carrots 
Whole wheat bread 



Mixed vegetable salad 
Fruit ice or gelatine dessert. 



7' 
Cream of celery soup 

Oatmeal wafers — Radishes 



Scalloped salmon 
Stuffed potatoes 
Young beets in butter sauce 
Whole wheat bread 



Apple and carrot salad 
Charlotte russe. 

Any of the foregoing menus can be used without the soup 
if desired. 

It will be noted, however, that where thick soups are 
served the remainder of the dinner is lighter. 

If, for example, you are fond of bean soup and eat 
plentifully of it you do not need potatoes at the same meal, 
and so on. 



140 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

If the entire family are home for luncheon a good way is 
to serve these complete soups at that time and then plan the 
dinner without them. 

Simple Dinner Menus 

Consisting of 
Whole Wheat Breads Two Fresh Vegetables and a Salad 

There comes the voice of some busy mother who 
says she hasn't time for the making of soups, salads, 
et cd.y and who wants to hear more about the "'Whole 
wheat bread, two fresh vegetables and a salad" plan. 

She may take any of the foregoing menus and 
omit the soup — ^unless the soup is made for the pur- 
pose of using the juice of the vegetable* cooked — in 
that case she must either make the soup or cook the 
vegetable in a casserole or steamer, or in its own 
juice. 

For the simpler menus on the above plan there is 
always your whole wheat bread or muffins, varied 
by com muffins or johnny cake and in the spring 
such combinations as new potatoes, yoimg carrots 
and peas, and head lettuce (always with a little 
chopped spinach and nuts or perhaps some ground 
raw carrots). And again — ^Asparagus and beets and 
combination salad, etc., down through the list. And 
after all it doesn't take long to make asparagus or 
spinach soup; and on a hot day a fruit cocktail is 
very refreshing. Moreover these things cost less 
than meat. In the winter there is the combination 
of parsnips and brussels sprouts, or carrots and 



Combining the Food: Menus 141 

cauliflower with the same combination, or mixed 
vegetable or fruit salads of which we never tire, 
plus a bit of cheese in some combination which you 
like — and don't forget the nuts and raisins. 

Always in planning your "two fresh vegetables" 
have one which is a root and one which is not — 
thus : Carrots and parsnips being both roots do not 
make as good a combination as carrots and asparagus 
or parsnips and cauliflower. 

Following are one dozen of these simple menus 
within the reach of all. 

Spring and Summer 

I. 

Scalloped poti^ioes 

Baked onions 

Beet tops (or any greens) 

Sliced tomatoes 

Corn muffins — Milk 

Prune whip. 

New potatoes 

Asparagus (with butter sauce) 

Young carrots (casserole) 

Head lettuce — Young onions 

Whole wheat bread 

Cream cheese 

Nuts and raisins. 

3- 

Young carrots 

Spinach (creamed or in a casserole) 
Celery 



142 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Whole wheat bread 

Combination salad 

Custard or figs and cream cheese. 



Lima beans 
Young carrots 
Greens — any kind 
Whole wheat bread 
Fruit salad 
Nuts and raisins. 

Scalloped rice 
Young beet tops 
Young carrots 
Any green salad 
Whole wheat bread 
Noodle custard. 



6. 



Young carrots or turnips 

New peas 

Corn on cob 

Whole wheat bread 

Carrot and cottage cheese salad 

Shortcake. 



Fall and Winter 



I. 



Corn roast 
Sweet potatoes 
Cauliflower in cream 
Whole wheat bread 
Head lettuce — Celery 
Figs and cream cheese. 



Combining the Food: Menus 148 

Baked potatoes 
Baked onions 
Creamed codfish 
Whole wheat bread 
Lettuce and tomato salad 
Stewed figs or any fruit sauce. 



Potatoes au gratin 
Brussels sprouts 
Creamed parsnips 
Whole wheat muffins 
Any green salad 
Cup custard. 

Sweet potatoes (with butter) 

Corn (in a casserole) 

Ripe olives 

Celery 

Johnny cake 

Carrot and cottage cheese salad 

Queen of puddings. 

5- 

Cauliflower au gratin 

Creamed parsnips 
.Whole wheat bread 
Combination salad 
Nuts, raisins and figs. 



6. 



Creamed turnips 
Home baked beans 
Celery — Ripe olives 
Corn muffins 



144 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Fruit and nut salad 
Baked apple. 

Or simpler still: 

Carrots and peas 

Whole wheat bread and butter 

Combination salad 

Cream cheese 

Nuts and raisins. 

Young turnips and asparagus 
Whole wheat mufEns 
Lettuce and tomatoes 
Cream cheese 
Nuts and raisins. 

Eat plenty of the latter combinations and it b all you 
need. 

Now and then it is a good thing to leave out both bread 
and potatoes — thus having a starchless meal. At such a 
meal have a good fish or chicken, etc., thus : — 

White fish *• 

Ripe olives 

Young carrots 

Green peas 

Com on cob 

Combination salad 

Charlotte russe. 

Chicken - * 

Celery 

Parsnips 

Brussels sprouts— or savoy 

Buttered beets 

Head lettuce (mayonnaise) 

Prune whip. 



Combining the Food: Menus 145 



ARE YOU OVERWEIGHT? 

There comes the voice of the overweight person 
who says : "What about me? I can't eat those kind 
of meals." 

Oh yes you can. These "Two fresh vegetables 
and a salad" meals are just what you need. 

Make your cream soups of skimmed milk and 
vegetable juice. Never eat a potato unless it is 
baked and never eat any ^ind of bread except whole 
wheat. There's a reason for this latter advice. 
Starch piles up fat. Boiled potatoes and white 
bread are pure starch. In their natural state pota- 
toes and wheat are mineral laden and therefore al- 
kaline. Your blood needs this mineral content of 
these foods to assist in the burning of the starch. 
Starch which is properly bumed in the body is 
tumed first into sugar, then into its corresponding 
acids and gases and is then carried off by the kid- 
neys and lungs. Starch which is not bumed is 
tumed into sugar — then fat. 

If you wish to reduce, eliminate the starches for 
a few days. When you get starch hungry eat a 
baked potato with your dinner. Never eat both 
bread and potato at the same meal. 

You may have lean lamp chops or roast lamb or 
chicken or fish — ^a very little at a time. You may 
even have milk at your breakfasts and lunches — ^but 



146 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

use skimmed milk. All the minerals are in the 
skimmed milk — the fat is in the cream. 

Begin a systematic cutting down of the starches 
and increasing of mineral laden foods in your diet. 
"Two fresh vegetables and a salad" makes a splen- 
did guide, plus the necessary protein. You will get 
this from your whole wheat and (skim) milk. 

Do not use mayonnaise nor oil on your salads. 
Use a boiled dressing sparingly. (You can make a 
boiled dressing without flour.) Never use vinegar. 
Lemon juice instead. Eat plenty of fruit. 

Go through the menus and select and change same 
for yourself on this plan. 

Gradually eat a little less no matter how little 
you think you have been eating. 

Remember your bread must be whole wheat. It 
is the starches without the mineral balance which 
do the damage. White bread does not nourish you 
but it does fatten you — eliminate it entirely. 

Breakfasts and luncheons of skim-milk and fruit 
without sugar are the best thing in the world for 
you. (To this combination add no other food.) 
You will be sufficiently nourished and from these 
mineral laden foods your blood will gradually re- 
gain its alkaline element. As the blood becomes 
alkaline it will regain the power to bum the starch- 
sugars. Too much fat is one of the surest evidences 
of mineral starvation. 

On the above system of diet you will not only 
feel better but you will gradually lose the super- 
fluous fat. 



Combining the Food: Menus 147 



A WORD ABOUT APPETITES 

Hunger is the natural desire for food. It is pres- 
ent when the body needs nourishment. It is not a 
gnawing in the stomach. When hungry the saliva 
will flow into the mouth at the thought of food — 
any food. 

The gnawing in the stomach is the result of wrong 
eating. The best way to cure this is to make a com- 
plete change in your diet. 

Appetite is the cultivated desire for certain (so- 
called) foods. The more it is satisfied, the greater 
it becomes. The more you season your foods with 
highly spiced condiments, the more you will want 
to. Highly seasoned foods destroy the taste for 
finer flavors and natural foods. "Teach your palate 
to be a food artist and not a slave to salt and grease." 

When one can get a rich, creamy mayonnaise why 
spoil the food value of a delicious salad with a 
highly spiced mixture, with its burning cayenne and 
puckering acid (nicknamed vinegar) ? 

The more you satisfy your craving for meat (or 
any certain food) the greater will that craving be- 
come. The woman with the tea habit or candy habit 
is no different than the drunkard. 

The individual who is "always hungry*' — who has 
a dissatisfied feeling after a meal and is always ready 
to eat again is on the wrong road. He should stop. 



148 Wluit to Est jnd Hair to Prepare It 



Eat Dodiiiig but fniit for two or three dajs and dicn 
make a radical cbangc in his diet. 

Coldvate a taste for delicate flavors and die 
dungs which are good for yon. Invalids do this 
and often wonder why they didn't do it sooner. 
Often also they acquire a distaste for die strong 
(injurious) foods. Why wait until you are ill? 

Don't you like roast beef or lamb or steak? If 
you don't — why cat them at all? If you do^ ^diy 
disguise the flavor widi Worcestershire sauce or 
other hig^y seasoned condiments? 

Why not eat the roast lamb and enjoy 



Combining the Food: Menus 149 



"DONTS" FOR THE CHILDREN 

Don't give children fried potatoes. 

Don't give them pickled beets. 

(Teach them to enjoy the more delicate flavor of 
beets with butter sauce.) 

Don't give them vinegar on salads nor on any 
vegetable. 

Don't give them condiments. 

Don't put sugar on their grapefruit — or any fruit. 

Don't give them pie crast. 

Don't give them milk and meat at the same meal. 

Don't force a child to eat what he really dislikes 
— cultivate his taste along sane lines — You can. 



PART IV 
I OBSTACLES AND SUCCESSES 



XII 
UNDERFED CHILDREN 

In Detroit at the present time there is much talk 
about the malnutrition among school children. In 
New York the same condition was found several 
years ago. The condition is not confined to Detroit 
nor New York. It is a National evil. Why should 
it exist? 

The Department of Health in Detroit, after mak- 
ing the tests, announced that the percentage of 
underfed children in some districts was as high as 
20 per cent, and further stated that the greatest 
number of underfed children lay, not among the 
poor, but among the children of the well-to-do. 

When the doctors were asked to explain why this 
condition should exist they were unable to answer. 
One theory advanced was that wealthy parents were 
prone to be lazy in the morning, and that the chil- 
dren through fear of being late rashed off to school 
with scant breakfast or with a cold, imcooked break- 
fast food. 

Earnest, solicitous mothers resented this theory 
and its inconsistency is evident when we realize that 
the most delicate children are nearly always the re- 
cipients of the most solicitous care. 

153 



154 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

Mothers — ^you who know : call out in the loudest 
voice you can command to every other mother who 
doesn't know : — 

"Delicate children can be made sturdy if 
their food contains the blood-building ele- 
MENTS." 

And these blood-building elements are found — 
not in the fancy, highly advertised package — ^but in 
the plainest of foods in their natural state. 

Give these delicate children whole wheat bread, 
milk (about a quart a day) and plenty of fruit for 
six months and watch them thrive. Add to this if 
you wish some whole grains in the morning and one 
or two vegetables at dinner and the children need 
nothing else — ^unless some sweets in the forai of 
honey, raisins and dates. (See page 104.) 

There comes the voice of some indulgent mother 
who asserts that Jane is "very fond" of certain 
foods (possibly the injurious ones) or that she 
"won't eat" something else. 

Perhaps you haven't thought of the fact that 
children's appetites are foraied by what they are 
fed (though they will naturally like some things 
better than others). The baby who is gradually 
weaning will eat her primes, her sifted carrots, her 
sifted spinach, her (ground) breakfast wheat and 
will love them, even if she does show extra glee when 
given a little honey. 

Take that same baby and give her a mixture of 
flavors — ^humor her by giving her her dessert or some 



Underfed Children 155 

jelly before her meal and she will push her wheat 
away and raise a rumpus. It rests with you. Begin 
at this stage to cultivate the child's taste for right 
foods. She learns to like what she eats. 

Repetition is habit. All habits, good and bad, 
are formed by repetition. Abnormal appetites are 
formed in the same way. (The candy fiend is an 
example.) If a child has an abnormal appetite for 
chili-sauce, pickles, meat or strong food it is because 
she has already had too much of these foods. Her 
taste for fine flavors has been perverted. 

To correct this and form the new habit — do not 
scold nor coax nor bribe. Simply put the food 
which is good for her on her plate. If she refuses 
to eat it let the matter pass without comment. Don't 
try to force her but don^t give her the other food. 
If she eats little at that meal see that an apple or 
any fruit is within her reach if she should want it. 
(It is far better for her to eat nothing at all than to 
eat wrongly.) Keep this up — the right food will 
taste good when she is hungry. Disguise it if you 
wish. A date muffin may start the good work. The 
one thing she must eat is whole wheat bread. She 
may choose her vegetables and fruits and if she is 
fond of meat she may have a small piece twice a 
week. (For sweets — see page 116.) If she is pretty 
badly spoiled as to her diet it -may be necessary for 
the entire family to try some of the simple menus 
on the preceding pages. It will pay. 

Don't force a child to eat what he really dis- 



156 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

likes — but cultivate his taste along sane lines. 
You can. 

Keep a list of loo per cent foods to which he takes 
kindly. Let them appear on the table often. Chil- 
dren do not tire of the same foods nor the same 
stones. 

Apropos of what a correct diet will do for 
children, let me give you one illustration. 

Mrs. M. is the mother of three children, the eldest 
is ten, the youngest three. Her brother is an ostco- 
padi practicing in Boston whose hobby is diet. He 
knows the value of whole grains and milk and gave 
to his sister a few peremptory rules — ^Result: 
Those children have never known a single day's 
illness. 

Asked what she did, she replied : "Nothing much 
— ^they have all the milk they want and they have 
never seen a piece of white bread in the house." 

The children have fruit, cereal (whole grain), 
milk and bread for breakfast. For lunch — ^usually 
a soup — or bread and milk — or bread and honey 
with more fruit. For dinner, a mixture bf vege- 
tables. One of the children is overfond of meat 
and has to be curbed. The family have meat two 
or three times a week. There is always a supply of 
granulated honey and the h(Hne-made cookies, etc., 
which children love. 

One day her little girl came in with the horrified 
statement: "Mamma, I know a little girl who eats 
pickles !" 



Underfed Children 157 

That conveys some idea of how perfectly the 
system works. 

With the corner candy store she had her troubles. 
Finally she elicited the promise that they (includ- 
ing the father) would not buy candy provided they 
could have all the nuts, raisins and dates they 
wanted once a day — after school. 

Both Mr. and Mrs. M. are musicians — hence have 
not climbed the ladder of wealth. She keeps no 
maid and she hates housework with a deadly hatred. 
(Did you ever see an artist who didn't?) In spite 
of this, however, twice a week her own tapering 
white hands make the whole wheat bread on which 
her children thrive. 

Don't forget that these children are exposed to 
the same germs and epidemics to which her neigh- 
bors' children succumb, but their resistance is per- 
fect. Moreover, the eldest child was handicapped 
at birth and through the first year of her life. It was 
not until the mixed diet was possible that she began 
to thrive. 

It is quite worth thinking about. 



xra 

THE GIRL WHO WORKS 

Arc you a girl who works, and — worse still — ^who 
rooms and eats in restaurants? 

The problem is a harder cme for you. To talk 
of whole grains, food values, mineral salts and vita- 
mines and to be obliged to order your food in the 
average eating house is a joke. 

Let us see if we can't work it out. Your break- 
fast and lunch will be easy enough. 

For your breakfast — Milk and fruit. I do not 
say this because it is easy to manage, but because it 
is the best thing for you. (Read the chapter on the 
Semi-milk Diet.) Now and then some breakfast 
grains, if you can manage the cooking of the whole 
grain. With this you will be well nourished. You 
can't say that of the average breakfast of toast and 
coffee. 

For your lunches — ^Milk and fruit or just fruit 
or whole wheat bread with something green ; or any 
of the light lunches suggested in the Menu Section. 

The problem lies in managing your dinners. If 

you cannot get access to a kitchenette or a gas plate, 

buy an electric grill. They arc made with two anJ 

three compartments so that two or three things can 

be cooked at the same time. They cost twelve to 

158 



The Girl Who Works 159 

fifteen dollars. That is a lot of money, but you can 
save the cost of one in a short time by the difference 
in the cost of your meals, besides having what you 
want to eat. Perhaps two or three of you could 
share the cost of one and eat at some central point. 
(That's fine.) If not, then buy one on the install- 
ment plan and pay for it with the money you dorCt 
give the restaurant. Imagine going to the market 
and having for your dinner tonight fresh asparagus 
(or green peas) and tender young carrots and crisp 
head lettuce with olive oil and whole wheat bread 
and butter. You have no idea what this kind of 
food will mean to you and how soon you will won- 
der how you ever got along on chops and greasy fried 
potatoes. If you can also get a fireless cooker it will 
mean a great deal to you. 

The one thing you can't manage on your grill is a 
baked potato. Slice them and boil in as little water 
as possible — don't drain — let the water boil into 
them, then add a little milk or when the water has 
boiled quite well down, add a generous piece of but- 
ter and keep turning them until deliciously flavored. 
Don't fry. 

Now and then you can cook a reed lamb chop or 
even a spring chicken and even then your meals 
won't cost you what they do at the restaurant. 

Perhaps your landlady will object. This stum- 
bling block will be met sometimes. But if you are 
scrupulously neat you can almost always get con- 
sideration for the sake of your health. I am not 



160 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

talking impossibilities. These suggestions are prac- 
tical. I have had the experience, having been with- 
out money and without a home. 

Your biggest problem will be your whole wheat 
bread. (See "Bread" p. 47.) But if you value 
your health be sure to get it. Find a McFadden's 
Physical Culture Restaurant and buy it there or find 
some housewife who will bake it for you. Promise 
her a list of customers and keep your word. The 
bread is the most important of all. 

At one of the leading battery depots in Detroit 
there are employed about eight or ten girls and twice 
as many young men. They have made an agreeable 
arrangement whereby they share both the cost and 
the work and have light nutritious lunches at noon. 
Five of those girls are rooming. They have now 
started getting their dinners there on the "Whole 
wheat bread, two green vegetables and a salad" 
plan taking their turns in preparing the meal. 
They eat promptly at 5 145, get through early and 
never wash the dishes at night. That part is the 
bugbear. The superintendent is very human, ap- 
proves of the plan and doesn't object to their taking 
care of that part in the morning. He believes that 
they work better, and I think he is right. 

Start a similar plan for yourself. 



XIV 
MARGARETS THYROID 

I know a little girl who works — a stenographer, — 
one of the dearest little girls I know — the personifi- 
cation of straightforward, unaffected sweetness. A 
rarity nowadays. 

She has abounding, radiant health and therefore 
thinks my food hints are jokes. She loves to be 
naughty about it. 

She is twenty years old, was raised in the country ; 
has molasses candy hair, pink cheeks, a creamy skin 
and eyes that dance when she looks at you. 

Whenever I see her with one hand behind her and 
her eyes unusually asparkle I know that the hidden 
hand holds a bag of chocolates or French pastry or 
some such. 

One day about a month ago she happened to be 
sitting at the correct angle between me and the 
light. 

"Margaret," I said, "come here a minute." 

I put my hand critically up to her throat. 

Instantly both her own hands covered it and a 
startled look came into her eyes. 

"I know," she said, "it's a goitre, but it isn't very 
big." 

I6i 



182 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



"Oh, my dear/' I pleaded. "Iodine in your food 
— ^iodine, iodine in your food." 

Of course she lauded — her merry little bubble — 
and that was all that day. 

Three days later she came to me of her own 
accord and with her eyes very serious for once : — 

"Say, Lady dear," she said, "where can I get the 
iodiner 

"Chiefly in whole grains and green things." 

"But I don't like that whole wheat stuflF." 

"Margaret, dear, you'll grow to like it. It's just 
a matter of habit. You'll grow to dislike white 
bread." 

She looked dubious. 

"Anyhow," I pressed. "Couldn't you eat a table- 
spoonful of whole wheat or brown rice every morn- 
ing for the sake of your throat?" 

"Ye-es, I suppose I could. What else?" 

"Do you really want to try?" 

She nodded. 

''Well then," I said, "the poor little thyroid has 
been starving for iodine for a long time. Therefore 
the first thing you must do is to gather together all 
the iodine bearing plants you can think of and make 
a tonic which you will take every day for months." 
"How?" 

"Well, spring is just here — ^go to the market and 
get the green leaves of all the vegetables (except 
ihubarb. Never use rhubarb leaves. They are 
poison.) Get beets, turnips, carrots, young cab- 



Margaret's Thyroid 163 

bage leaves, spinach, lettuce, celery, onions — every- 
thing. (Use some of the carrots too.) Cut them 
up (they occupy less space) and stuff a kettle full 
of them. Pour on hot water and let simmer three 
or four hours. As the heat shrinks the mixture, add 
the rest of the leaves. Get them all in. Drain off 
the liquor — ^you should have at least a quart — pos- 
sibly more. Take a small cup of this every morning 
and evening. Also steep some bran and take that 
once a day." 

'Is that all?" 

"No — that's your tonic to make up for starving 
the thyroid. For your breakfasts eat the whole 
grains — as much as you can — whole wheat bread 
and fruit. 

"For your lunches bring some whole wheat bread 
and get green things — watercress, celery, lettuce, 
radishes — or if you are home fresh peas or an ear of 
com. Or just eat fruit and nuts and raisins for 
lunch. 

"For diimers whole wheat bread, two fresh vege- 
tables and a salad as the folks are doing now. 

"And, oh yes, try to work in some unpearled bar- 
ley in soups." 

She made a grimace. 

"You see, dear," I added, "none of the minerals 
come singly. They come together in vegetables, 
fruits and grains. But the most iodine comes in the 
green things and the whole grains carry a full 
supply." 



164 What to Eat and How to Pr^oe It 

Ten dajs later she twinkled up at me sqing: 
^ni have to 'fess up — Fm beginnhig to like the 
wbtAe what bread." 

Of course she dieats a little now and then — for 
one thing she is a nibbler. Somewhere on her desk 
at all times you'll find a box of dierries or a package 
of raisins. Hook the other way. If she must nibble, 
she can't go far wrong on fruit and raisins. 

I wish it were six months later so that I mi^t be 
able to tell you how her tonic and diet worked out. 
But one thing is certain: Her goitre can't grow 
any bigger. Not on that diet. 

Just for the interest of you ^Is who work I want 
to say that Margaret is one of three sisters who work 
and who keep house together in a dear little flat. 
They take their turns at being housekeeper for a 
week. There b perfect harmony between them and 
they have a lot of pleasure in their little home. 

They buy their whole wheat bread most of the 
time at McFadden's. Once in a while they g^t am- 
bitious and make a batch of bread and always once 
or twice a week a pan of muffins or biscuits. 

Yes, it is hard — ^but not any harder than cooking 
pork-chops and fried potatoes, and not half so hard 
as trying to exist on a restaurant diet. 



XV 
THE GENUINE "MILK CURF' 

To take the genuine "Milk Diet" as it should be 
taken and to persist in it through a period of six to 
ten weeks requires courage, will power and perse- 
verance. 

The value of such a course cannot be overesti- 
mated to the person suffering from anemia, nervous 
exhaustion, emaciation, general breakdown, chronic 
ills, etc. It will positively cure ulceration of the 
stomach, diseases of the intestinal tract, abnormal 
appetites — even alcoholism. Almost any case of 
chronic misery can be permanently helped by it. 

There are scattered over the country various sani- 
tariums where the milk cure is given scientifically. 
The writer attended one of these on one occasion for 
six weeks with wonderfully beneficial results; and 
afterwards (having learned how) took the course 
right at home with equally good results and without 
even the attendance of a physician. 

It is useless to attempt the course at all imless 
you obey every rule and are willing to tolerate some 
disccxnfort. It is a heroic measure and it is only 
those who have suffered much who are willing to 
go through with it, with the promise of restored 
health as their goal. 

165 



166 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

The general rule is six quarts of milk a day (with 
no other food) for six weeks. In extreme cases the 
length of time is extended to eight, ten and twelve 
weeks. If six quarts causes a looseness of the bowels 
the quantity is reduced to five. But six is the aver- 
age, and must not be changed by caprice. The 
average person is severely constipated by less than 
six quarts. The more milk the looser the bowels. 
Obey Rule 4 and stick to six quarts. 

The directions follow: — 

It is best to stay right at home and rest. It is 
assumed that you are sick enough to do that. If you 
wish to gain in weight, stay right in bed. Nature is 
very busy taking care of six quarts of milk per day. 
There is no energy to waste. 

1st. Twenty-four hours before starting on the 
milk take a dose of castor oil. 

2nd. For one day eat fruit only — all you want, 
and any kind except bananas. No other food. 

3rd. On the second day start at once on the six 
quarts a day. (Don't begin on a less quantity and 
work up.) A one-half pint glass of milk every half 
hour from seven in the morning till seven at night. 

4th. An enema (about two quarts of water) 
every night. 

5th. A quick hot bath every night. 

It is.a process of elimination as well as rebuilding. 
After ten days or two weeks you will begin to sweat. 
Possibly three or four spells every night. Then the 
real benefit begins. 



The Genuine "Milk Cure'' 167 

After every glass of milk take a few drops of 
lemon juice or a little grapefruit. Milk must curdle 
before digestion takes place. The lemon juice as- 
sists this. 

Drink the milk slowly, sip it. ScMne people take 
it through a straw. 

Here's where your courage is needed. The first 
few days the milk may nauseate you. If so take a 
little lime water or (preferably) increase the quan- 
tity of lemon juice. This will pass away when your 
system gets clear of its poisons. Stick to your six 
quarts. 

Most people get along all right for the first two 
or three weeks. You will not feel himgry — ^you are 
well nourished. But about the fourth week you will 
begin to feel bloated and luicomfortable. You may 
even have a smothered feeling and palpitation of 
the heart. Don't worry. In spite of the disccxnfort 
there will be ultimate benefit. Use your will power 
and stick to the six quarts. 

Just as much care must be exercised in coming off 
the milk diet as in going on. You cannot go back on 
a mixed diet immediately. The first day eat fruit 
only and two or three quarts of milk. The second 
day take a quart of milk and fruit (without sugar) 
for breakfast and another quart and fruit for lunch. 
For dinner (preferably in middle of day), eat only 
one kind of food. No mixtures. You may have 
whole wheat bread and fricasseed chicken, all you 
want, or whole wheat bread and spinach, or a baked 



168 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

potato with celery, etc. The"^ second day you may 
add one article (a parsnip or carrot or celery with 
the chicken), etc. It is best to keep up the milk 
for the two meals for a week or two and for break- 
fast for some time. 

You may add a whole wheat muffin or some whole 
wheat breakfast grain to the milk and fruit if you 
wish — ^but under no circum3tances eat white bread 
or crackers or any patented "cereal." 

The trouble which ensues from this combination is 
not the fault of the fruit (without sugar) as is gen- 
erally supposed. It is the starch which causes the 
trouble- 
Immediately after coming off the milk diet you do 
not feel especially strong. After about a week you 
begin to feel like a new person. All the poisons 
have been eliminated from your body. The milk 
has made new blood which has been busy every min- 
ute rebuilding your tissues, and carrying off dead 
tissues thus fortifying your body against disease. 

Don't go back on your old mistaken diet. Study 
the Science of Eating and live accordingly. Plenty 
of green things — and raisins. You will want iron. 
The benefits of the milk cure are far-reaching. I 
knew a case of neuralgia of the optic nerve which 
had resisted all medical treatment for three years, 
cured in ten weeks, the emaciated patient gaining 
thirty-five pounds. 

An osteopathic treatment once or twice a week 
while taking the milk is beneficial. 



XVI 
SEMI-MILK DIET 

There are those to whom the taking of the genu- 
me milk cure is an impossibility. There are others 
to whom it is not a necessity, but for whom a par- 
tial milk diet would do much. 

To start drinking milk in a haphazard way, mix- 
ing it indiscriminately with your other foods will 
not do for you what it might do taken intelligently 
and regularly. 

If you are run down, anemic, nervously ex- 
hausted, susceptible to colds, convalescent or merely 
underweight try the following for two months or 
longer. Everyone I know of who has done it faith- 
fully has gained at least ten pounds and felt infi- 
nitely better. 

1st. Prepare as for the genuine milk diet — 
obeying faithfully Rules i and 2. 

2nd. For breakfast a quart of milk and fruit 
(without sugar) and a tablespoonful of bran. 

3rd. For lunch — another quart of milk with 

more fruit, or an ear of com or two baked bananas. 

(Fruit is best.) If in fairly good health you may 

also have a whole wheat mufBn. But no white bread 

or crackers or refined cereal, or meat or potatoes. 

169 



170 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

4th. For dinner: Any sane mixture. (Consult 
the preceding pages.) The combination which will 
give excellent results is: Whole wheat bread with 
plenty of butter, two f redi vegetables and a salad. 

The whole wheat bread contains all the protein 
which your body needs. There is also, in this sim- 
ple mixture a balance of fats, carlx^ydrates and 
mineral salts. 

Most of us have eaten too much and too care- 
lessly. "Food Values" was an unknown quantity. 
On this semi-milk diet your eyes and complexion will 
clear, your step will quicken and there will be a per- 
ceptible gain in wei^t after the second week. The 
first few days you may not feel ri^t — ^but this will 
pass away in less than a week. 

One thing: The taking of a quart of milk at one 
meal sounds like a great deal to the uninitiated. 
Less than that will not do. Take it if necessary in 
two sittings. Upon rising take at once a pint of milk 
and your fruit — then dress for the day and take the 
other pint with your bran. The bran is necessary 
to prevent ccmstipation. (Also, we might add, one 
or two glasses of milk are constipating; three or four 
are laxative.) Under no circumstances take a ca- 
thartic. An enema if necessary the first couple of 
nights, and an enema once a week all through the 
course. 

When you have finished the semi-milk diet— -eat 
sanely. It would be well to continue the milk 



Semi-MUk Diet 171 

(three or four glasses) and fruits (without sugar) 
for one meal a day indefinitely. 

The writer knew a young man who was discharged 
from the army because of ulceration of the stomach 
(caused from inhaling smoke). He was put on a 
straight milk diet — ^but not in quantities, neither did 
he stay at home. As an auto salesman he was very 
active. He drank a glass of milk about every two 
hours, whenever he felt the need. At a restaurant — 
anywhere. He ate nothing else and lost all desire 
for other food. He made the mistake of going back 
on a mixed diet too soon and was obliged to go back 
on the milk. He kept it up for over a year, gained 
in weight and pep and was thoroughly cured. Per- 
sistence did it. 

Haphazard, intermittent, slipshod methods will 
never accomplish anything. 



xvn 

THE PERSONAL APPLICATION 

One thing which always seems hard to under- 
stand is how some people read a book — ^any book — 
become enthused over its contents and yet fail ab- 
solutely to get the personal application. 

I have in mind the case of a relative, a man about 
fifty, corpulent, overfed. He has achieved success 
and now like many others is spending his time and 
his money trying to find the road back to health. 

I had learned that he was ill and the nature of 
his illness and had sent him a copy of ''The Science 
of Eating." 

Two weeks later I went to see him. 

There he sat, his foot propped up on a chair, his 
joints swcdlen and aching, his face pasty, his eyes 
pathetic in their dull misery. 

Almost immediately he began to enthuse about the 
book I had sent him. 

'That's great stuflF I" he said. 'That fellow knows 
what he's talking about." 

"The most convincing book I ever read," I replied. 

"Oh, he's got the dope ri^t — and he's got the 
proofs," he answered. 

After a while I said to him : "What are you doing 
for yourself, Jdm?" 

I7t 



The Personal Application 178 

"Doing?" he answered. "What is there to do? 
I've been here now for over two months. I've had 
three doctors on the job and I've taken a gallon of 
dope — ^but I can't see that I'm a d bit better." 

"It looks to me like a result of acidosis," I said. 

"Yep — that's what Doc says — too much acid in 
my system." 

"Did he say anything as to the cause of the acid?" 

He shook his head. 

"What are you eating?" 

By this time his wife had come in — ^prim, precise, 
smugly confident, unassailable in her household 
methods. She answered for him. 

"The doctor says to eliminate red meats and to 
give him plenty of fresh vegetables." 

"Well, for instance," I said, "what did you eat 
for dinner?" 

"Let's see," he answered. "I'm a pretty good 
eater, you know. I had my own share of roast lamb, 
some mashed potato, some cauliflower, a dab of jelly 
and a piece of celery." 

"Any bread?" 

"Yep, a couple of pieces of bread and a piece of 
Annie's cake." 

"John," I said. "Have you any brains?'* 

"Some," he grinned. "Why?" 

"What's the use of reading a lot of facts and rec- 
ognizing them as facts if you don't apply them?" 

"What's the use of having a doctor if he 
don't '' 



174 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

"Yes, John, but he hasn't. Now use your own 
brains for a minute and listen to me. You have 
just finished reading *The Science of Eating/ then 
you know the story of the one himdred and ten 
sick sailors on board the steamship Kronprinz 
Wilhelmr 

He nodded. 

"What made those sailors sick? It was proven 
beyond a question of doubt that their food was the 
cause. And what had they eaten? Meat, potatoes 
and white bread; meat, potatoes and white bread 
over and over for nine months with some canned 
vegetables thrown in for good measure. 

"All that stuff is acid-forming and when their 
bodies were sufficiently saturated with acid they col- 
lapsed. Now, John, what is the difference between 
the sickness of these men and your own trouble? 
Perhaps there is some difference in the symptcxns, 
but the cause is acidosis, isn't it?" 

He agreed. 

"And the only difference between your collapse 
and theirs is that yours was slower in coming about. 
Call it rheumatism or nervous breakdown or any- 
thing you like — it is acidosis just the same — caused 
by your acid foods, — ^meat, boiled potatoes and 
white bread. You gave yourself a dab of cauliflower 
and celery and fruit and so on all through the years. 
That gave you some mineral salts but not enough. 
Your acid foods always predominated and so the 
acids gradually piled up in your body until the ^nall 



The Personal Application 175 

amount of off-setting foods which you ate was as 
nothing compared to it." 

"I don't think I quite 'get you/ ** 

I repeated the illustration of the Soda and Cream 
of Tartar explaining that one was an alkali, the 
other an acid (see p. 18) and then went on: 

"You see, John, some of your foods form acids 
and others form alkalis (or bases) in your body, and 
there must be enough bases to neutralize the acids. 
The sailors on the Kronprinz Wilhelm didn't get 
any bases and they collapsed in nine months. 
You've always been pretty lucky in getting the off- 
setting foods so it took you forty years to go to 
smash. But, John, every time you had a severe cold, 
or a sore throat, or the grippe, or any of those things 
the cause was the same. Too much acid, broken 
down tissue, no resistance." 

Here his wife interrapted to say: 

"But everybody has always eaten meat and po- 
tatoes and bread and butter." 

"No they haven't, Annie, not white bread. 
(Those who have are showing the results.) Forty 
years ago the present milling processes were not in 
existence. It is the present generation which is suf- 
fering the consequences of white flour. Why, Annie, 
if the people knew and would cut out white flour 
products alone and go back to whole wheat it would 
be comparatively easy to get a balanced diet without 
thinking much about it." 

While his wife and I discussed the value of whole 



176 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

grains and steamed vegetables and the "why** of.it 
all, John had picked up "The Science of Eating'' 
and was glancing through it. 

'*Well," he broke in. "You evidently have been 
thinking about this stuff some. Suppose you had a 
dose like mine, what would you do?" 

"Do?" I said. "I'd turn to page 206 of that book 
you're looking at and I would take exactly the pre- 
scription which Mr. McCann gave the sick sailors 
on board the Kronprinz Wilhelm.^^ 

He looked blank. 

"Can't you see, John?" I proceeded. "Those 
sailors' bodies were overloaded with acid, so is yours. 
In order to neutralize that acid you must get your 
body saturated with alkalies, as found in nature. 
Mr. McCann wanted those sailors to get these alka- 
lies faster than they could eat them, so he gave them 
in solution. Why shouldn't you do the same thing? 
Forty-seven of those men were on their feet in ten 
days ! You won't respond so quickly. Your trouble 
came on more slowly and insidiously. But it is the 
logical answer just the same." 

"I believe you're right," he said in a tone of de- 
cision after a few minutes of pondering. 

"Of course !" I said. "It's logical. And I'd say 
the same thing to anyone who had a heavy cold, or 
any other of the lesser effects of acidosis. The 
mineral salts (or alkalies) as found in natural foods 
taken in solution will cure acidosis." 

There ensued a discussion between his wife and 



The Personal Application 177 

myself as to the preparation of the prescription and 
as to John's subsequent diet. 

John took the "cure." It was slow work but be- 
ing convinced he persisted. It took three months to 
get any real results and six to effect a cure — ^but 
John says he knows he would be lying there still if 
he hadn't started on the logical course. 

Almost all of us have had an oversupply of acid- 
foraiing foods. Study your own case and don't wait 
for a collapse to emphasize the need. Give yourself 
and the adult members of your family an oversup- 
ply of concentrated (liquid) alkalies. Do this for 
weeks or months if the need is evident and then con- 
tinue to balance your meals. Let this become fixed 
habit. Let it become gospel to you. 



XVIII 
THE STORY OF THE 

KRONPRINZ WILHELM 

Previous to the war the Kronprinz Wilhelm was 
a palatial transatlantic passenger steamship belong- 
ing to the North German Lloyd. In 1914 it was 
converted into a Grerman raider and sent out on the 
high seas to sink merchant vessels bound with sup- 
plies to the Allies. Leaving Hdboken Aug. 3, 1914, 
its officers and crew thoroughly understood that they 
could not again touch port until the war was over. 
They were out at sea for nine months before the 
tragedy which we are about to record occurred to 
their men. During this time they captured, bombed 
and sunk fourteen vessels. Each of these vessels 
was robbed of its food and fuel supply before being 
sunk. From each of them the Germans took prac- 
tically the same things. Plenty of white flour, white 
biscuits, sweet crackers, butter (or oleo), potatoes, 
canned vegetables, fresh meat, condensed milk, tea 
and coffee, and refined sugar. 

Two of the vessels sunk were bound for Liverpool 
with whole cargoes of fresh meats. These the Ger- 
mans crammed into their own perfect refrigerator 

system. (Some they salted and corned.) They 

178 



The Story of the Kronprirtz Wilhelm 179 

had meat enough to feast upon and to last them in- 
definitely. 

Two other vessels were laden with cargoes of 
whole wheat. From these the Geraians took only 
the available white flour, butter, potatoes, and 
canned vegetables, ham, bacon, etc. They sent the 
precious wheat to the bottom. If the Germans had 
known what was going on in their own bodies, if 
they had known the priceless value to themselves of 
the phosphorous, potassium and calcium salts con- 
tained in that whole wheat, they would have gath- 
ered and stored and guarded it as so much unalloyed 
gold. 

But the Geraians did not know they were sick. 
They did not know that the absence of these min- 
erals was slowly robbing their tissues of life and 
bringing about a condition of acidosis, which would 
eventually cause loo of them to drop without warn- 
ing, paralyzed, to the deck. 

They were eating typical American meals — ^plenty 
of fresh meat, boiled or mashed potatoes, canned 
vegetables, white bread and butter (or oleo), tea 
and coffee with sugar and condensed milk. These 
in various appetizing forms they ate three times a 
day plus a substantial mid-af teraoon lunch. Out in 
the fresh air of the open seas "fed up" with these 
typical American meals they should have been feel- 
ing very fit indeed. 

They paid little or no attention to lesser ills or 
symptoms of lowering vitality and it was not until 



180 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 

the conditions became extreme and the men com- 
pletely incapacitated that the ship's surgeon (Dr. 
Perrenon) became seriously alaraied. Some of the 
men collapsed after they had been out six to eight 
months but in April, the ninth month, they began 
going down like tenpins at the rate of two to five a 
day ; some of them keeping up until the last minute 
and then dropping helpless to the deck; i lo of them 
were down. Dr. Perrenon found himself totally 
unable to relieve the suffering of the men. One 
thing he knew : That he must make a dash for some 
neutral port at once or they would be out on the 
high seas manned with 500 dead bodies. Accord- 
ingly they headed for America and on April 11, 
1915, arrived at Newport News in the James River 
after having been out on the high seas just eight 
months and eight days. 

Immediately on their arrival the best medical aid 
of New York City was called to their relief. Every 
one else was barred from the ship. 

Mr. Alfred W. McCann was at that time working 
on the New York Globe — conducting a campaign 
to educate the people in food values and food science. 
Mr. McCann had devoted a lifetime to the study of 
malnutrition and its causes and was therefore most 
intensely anxious to get on board the stricken ship. 
He was close to several high officials — ^but although 
he pulled every wire he knew of both in New York 
and Washington he could not break the ban. News- 
paper men were especially barred. 



The Story of the Kronprinz WUhelm 181 

He brooded. Rumor said there was beri-beri or 
something very closely resembling it on board that 
ship. What had the men eaten? Mr. McCann was 
doing his utmost to fight the white flour evil of 
America. Was this perhaps the very lesson he 



needed to prove his point? 

His work was in the interest of humanity. He 
resorted to stratagem. He had a card printed with 
the name of an eminent physician, hired a laimch 
and climbed on board the ship — ^presenting his card. 
He was ushered at once into the salon where sat the 
twelve medical men in consultation. 

But almost immediately on entering he was recog- 
nized by a New York health officer who sprang to 
his feet and said: "Gentlemen, this man is not a 
physician — this is McCann of the New York Globe.'* 

Mr. McCann knew that it was not a moment for 
courtesies — ^neither was there a moment to lose. He 
replied that he was McCann and that he was there 
because he was a student of malnutrition. And if 
there was beri-beri on that ship why all the hysteria 
and secrecy when there were hundreds of cases of 
the same nature in New York City — due to the same 
cause. 

He said just enough to interest the ship's surgeon, 
Dr. Perrenon, who stepped forward and extended 
his hand saying : "Mr. McCann, I will hear all you 
have to say when these gentlemen have finished." 

When the doctors had finished their consultation 
and returned to the city Dr. Perrenon and Mr. Mc- 



182 What to Eat and How to Prepare It 



Cann discussed the situation in detail. Mr. McCann 
called the former's . attention to certain findings 
made by Dr. H. C. Sheraian of Columbia Univer- 
sity and of other men of equal courage and repute in 
which it was proven that a diet of demineralized, 
degeraiinated foods would bring about a condition 
of malnutrition of greater or less gravity, depending 
upon the extent of the cause. 

It was then shown in discussion that every item 
of food which the men had eaten had been acid- 
forming — ^meat, boiled potatoes, canned vegetables, 
white bread and butter (or oleo), cheese and sweet 
biscuit. There had been absolutely no alkaline ele- 
ment. The alkaline necessary for the body to func- 
tion had therefore been taken from the tissues, bones 
and blood of their own bodies. The blood and tis- 
sues of the men had become thoroughly saturated 
with acid. 

What then was the remedy? 

Dr. Perrenon asked the question. Mr. McCann 
replied that since the bodies of the men were satur- 
ated with acid the logical remedy would be to give 
them vegetable alkaline as fast and as freely as pos- 
sible. He therefore su^ested that they be given in 
solution. The men would be able to get the alka- 
lines in greater quantities in this way than by eating. 
Definitely his suggestions were : — 

1 St. That one hundred pounds of bran be steeped 
in 200 pounds of water and a large glass of the 
liquid fed to the men each morning. 



The Story of the Kronprinz Wilhelm 188 

2nd. That all kinds of available leaves and vege- 
tables be scrabbed (not peeled), boiled, the liquid 
fed to the men as soup in generous quantities (vege- 
tables thrown away). 

3rd. That potatoes be scrabbed and peeled; the 
potatoes thrown away, the peelings boiled and the 
liquid given to the men — a small glass once a day. 

4th. That the men should have milk, egg-yolk, 
and frait in prescribed quantities; also a small 
amount of whole wheat bread and after a week of 
above treatment, the vegetables of the soup. 

Under no circumstances should they have any 
acid-forming food. 

After due deliberation Dr. Perrenon decided that 
since the men had thus far resisted all medical treat- 
ment it would be wrong to withhold from them the 
alkaline treatment. This decision was made and 
the treatment started on April 16th. Up to that 
time the men were still going down at the rate of 
2 to 5 a day. 

On April 17th there were no new cases. Neither 
were there any from that day on. In four days 
the men showed a marked improvement and in ten 
days 47 of them were dismissed from the ship's 
hospital and one of the completely paralyzed vic- 
tims was able to stand on his feet without help. 

Dr. Perrenon expressed astonishment and satis- 
faction at the completeness of the cure and said 
that the lesson in food values would not be lost 
to Germany. 



