B^mmmm 



METROPOLITAN 



'■'•m 



BOOK 



m;m 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




^^, -^ ^ .^ -- 




¥ 




Fhim Home Bakings, by Edna Evam 
San Frandsco, 1912. 





THE 

METROPOLITAN LIFE 
COOK BOOK 



Printed and Distributed by the 

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

For the use of its Industrial Policy-holders 

1922 



"TXTHAT shall I give them for dinner to-night?" 
is the everlasting question facing the house- 
wives of the nation. This little book will help you 
answer the question. The recipes have been carefully 
prepared so as to provide nourishing, tasty dishes at 
the lowest possible cost. There are so many of them 
that you will not have to worry about your family 
"getting tired" of what you cook for them. We hope 
that you will find it useful and helpful. 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.' 



CONTENTS 

Our Daily Meals , .r* 't'.'SI tV. : , 3 

Measurements 5P£j;^^C<?!^l^.. s 

Breakfast Dishes "TX ._. • 7 

Toast 1 .'5. 9 

Cereal Flour and Meal Mixtures (MS. "7.7 10 

General Directions for Making Muffins W.?-.^ 12 

Bread and Bread Making 19 

Beverages ' 24 

Soups 25 

Fish 28 

Meat 31 

Poultry 35 

Fat 38 

Meat Substitutes 39 

Vegetables 43 

Salads.. 46 

Desserts 50 

Frozen Mixtures 54 

Cakes 56 

Cookies 60 

Pastry 61 



THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



OUR DAILY MEALS 

We all know that to live we must have food, but we do not all 
realize that we must eat the right kinds of food to be at our best 
and to work eflBlciently. 

It is true that a great many families are not well nourished, not 
because they do not spend enough money for food, but because 
they do not get enough food value for the money spent. The 
average housewife of to-day finds that it takes a great deal of 
thought and care to make wise choice of food that will best suit 
the needs of her family and yet keep within the amount of money 
that she can afford to spend. 

Many housewives have increased the cost of their food supply 
through lack of thought in buying. The cost of food is no measure 
of its food value. A high-priced article may have little food value, 
while a low-priced article may have high food value. 

In buying food, to insure that the different kinds of food are 
provided so that the family may be well fed at the lowest cost, 
one-fourth to one-third of tiie money should be spent for 
bread or cereal foods. A pint of milk should be allowed for each 
member of the family, and the same amount that is spent for milk 
should be spent for meat, fish or meat substitutes, and as much 
again should be spent for fruit and vegetables. 

THE DAY'S FOOD 

A man of average size, who is moderately active, is likely to be 
well fed on a diet which includes the following: 

One pound or a little less of bread or cereal food, such as 
wheat, corn, hominy, rye, oatmeal, barley, buckwheat, or rice 
preparations. 

Two ounces or 4 tablespoons of fat, such as butter, oleomar- 
garine, corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, olive oil, meat drippings, 
etc. 

Two to 3 ounces or 4 to 6 tablespoons of sugar, syrup, corn 
syrup, molasses, maple sugar or syrup, honey, etc. 

About I pound of meat as purchased, poultry,fish, eggs,cheese, 
dried peas, beans, lentils, cowpeas, peanuts, etc. 



4 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 

One pint of mUk. This may be in the form of a beverage, or 
in milk dishes. ' 

About § poimd of potatoes or root vegdables. 

About ^ pound fresh vegetables or greens, or fresh fruit in 
season. If fresh fruit is too expensive, dried fruits should be 
substituted. 

SELECTION AND PREPARATION OF POOD 

It is 'weQ. to remember the following: 

That it pays to figure carefully how much food is needed. 

That it pays to buy clean food from clean stores. 

That it pays to go to market, buy for cash, and carzy home the 
foods that are bought. 

That foods which are plentiful cost little. 

That anything out of season is always expensive. 

That food in package form is more expensive than that in bulk. 

That it is cl^aper to buy in large quantities tiian in small. 

That all foods should be prepared in such a way that all tiieir 
food value may be kept and none of it wasted. 

That a variety of food from day to day, rather than a great 
variety at one meal, will not only keep the cost of food down, but 
also lessen labor, to say nothing of its good efiect on the body. 

CARE OF FOOD MATERIALS 

After food has been carefully selected, it is important that it 
should be carefully stored and prepared. It must be kept clean and 
sweet. 

Milk and cream should be kept in clean receptacles, closely 
covCT«d, in a cool place. If purchased in txottles, •fee bottles 
should be carefully washed and wiped before putting them in the 
retfrigerator. The top of milk should be used for the breakfast 
cereal, beverages and puddings. 

Eggs shotild be washed before using. Egg shells may be used 
for clearing coffee or soups. The white of egg dinging to the shell 
does the work. 

Fruits should be washed and wiped dry, and kept in a cool, 
dry place. 

Salad greens should be carefully washed and picked over. The 
outside coarser parts maybe used in makirtg soups and sauces. The 
inner, finer parts should be used for salads. After tiie salad greens 



MEASUREMENTS 



have been carefully washed, they shotild be put into a cheese-cloth 
bag and kept in a refrigerator. 

Meat and fish should be taken out of the paper wrappings 
immediately, as the paper absorbs some of the juice of the meat. 
Meat and fish should be wiped clean with a piece of cloth dipped 
in salted water. The trimmings should not be removed at the 
butcher shop, as they may be used in many ways. Extra fat on 
the meat should be removed before cooking and used as a btitter 
substitute. (See page 38.) Fat of meat may be used with vege- 
tables and in suet puddings, in cookies, soups and sauces. Bones 
and left-over neat may be used in maldng soups, croquettes, meat 
pies and hashes. 

Fish or other food with a strong odor should be kept in a 
covered dish that the odor may not affect other foods. A tin lard 
pail is good for this. Head, tail and bones of fish may be used in 
making fish soups and fish sauces. 

Cheese should be kept in a cool, dry place, wrapped in a clean 
cloth which has been dampened in vinegar. 

Bread should be kept in a covered box or crock. Pieces of 
stale bread are good for toasting and bread puddings. Odd pieces 
of bread ^ould be dried and crumbed, and are kept best when left 
in a paper bag. 

Flom: should be kept in closely covered bins. When empty, the 
bins should be washed, scalded and dried in the sim, if possible. 

Cereals should be kept in covered jars. 

Baking-powder should be left in the tin can, closely covered. 

Bottles containing flavoring should be kept closely covered and 
should never be allowed to stand any length of time tmcovered. 
Flavorings should be added to mixtures after cooking, when 
possible. 

MEASUREMENTS 
Much good food is spoiled in cooking. In order to have good 
results in cooking, reliable recipes should be followed accurately. 
Correct measurements are absolutely necessary to insure suc- 
cessful results. 

A FEW GENERAL RULES 
Sift flour, meal, powdered sugar, confectioners' sugar and soda 
before meastiring. 



6 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 

Mustard and baking-powder are apt to settle in the can, and 
therefore should be stirred to lighten before measuring. 

Salt lumps easily, and the lumps should be broken before 
measuring. 

Dry materials, such as flour, 'should be measured lightly with 
a scoop or spoon, and not packed hard into the measure. 

Every household should have measuring cups, measuring 
tablespoons and teaspoons on hand. 

All the recipes in this book call for level or flat measurements. 

To measure butter, lard, or any kind of fat, pack solidly into 
the cup or spoon and make level with a knife. If the fat is very 
hard, it may be softened by leaving it in a warm place for awhile, 
or it may be cut into small pieces before measuring it. 

To measture a spoonful of any dry material, dip the spoon into 
it, fill it, lift it and level it with a knife. 

For a half spoonful, divide lengthwise. 

For a quarter of a spoonful, divide the half crosswise. 

For an eighth of a spoonful, divide the quarter diagonally. 

Less than one-eighth of a teaspoonf ul is considered a f ewgrains. 

A cupful of liquid is all the cup will hold. 

A teaspoonf ul or tablespoonf ul is all the spoon will hold. 

NoTB. — ^It will be found that a heaping teaspoonful of diy material, such as baking- 
powder, is the same as 4 or 5 level teaspoonfuls. Housewives who are not in the habit of using 
level measurements are apt to think that recipes calling for level measurements require more 
materia than those that they have been using. 

EQUIVALENTS 

3 teaspoons equal 1 tablespoon 2| cups powdered sugar equal 1 lb. 

4 tablespoons equal | cup 3^ cups confectioners' sugarequall lb, 
2 cups equal 1 pint 2 cups milk equal 1 pound 

2 pints equal 1 quart 2 cups butter equal 1 pound 

4 quarts equal 1 gallon 2 cups finely chopped suet equal 1 lb. 

4 cups of flour equal 1 pound 2 cups chopped meat equal 1 pound 

4 cups entire wheat flour equal 1 lb. 3 cups raisins equal I pound 

3 cups (scant) cornmeal equal 1 lb. 4| cups of coffee equal 1 pound 

2 1 cups oatmeal equal 1 pound 2 1-7 cups pearl tapioca equal 1 lb. 

6 cups rolled oats equal 1 pound If cups instant tapioca equal 10 oz. 

4f cups rye meal equal 1 pound !§ cups minute tapioca equal 10 oz. 

2 cups rice equal 1 pound 40 small prunes equal 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar equal 1 28 large prunes equal 1 pound 

pound 75 apricot pieces equal 1 pound 

2| cups brown sugar equal 1 pound. 3 large bananas equal i pound 



BREAKFAST DISHES 



BREAKFAST DISHES 

FRUIT CEREAL MIXTDRES MILK 



Europeans are in the habit di serving much simpler breakfasts than 
Americans. The breakfast should be filling and satisfying to start the 
day well. A few well-coaked dishes served at one time always make a 
more wholesome meal than when a great variety is served. 

It is a good j)lan to serve some kind of fruit for breakfast. This may be 
fresh fruit, when it is in season and plentiful and not too expensive, or it 
may be dried fruit, which has been stew-ed. 

Mildly acid fresh fruit in good condition should be served raw. 

Dried fruit may be cooked alone or with the breakfast cereal. 

DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING DRIED FRUIT 

■Wash fruit carefully. 

Soak in cold water to cover overnight. 

Brain fruit, heat the water in which it has been soaked to boiling point, 
add the soaked fruit, and let simmer slowly until fruit is plump and soft. 
A little SHgar or synip may be added if Hiore sweetening is desired. 

CEREALS 

Cereals furnish one of the most important foods we have. Nature 
provides some kind of a cereal in almost every country. From the oats and 
rye of the Northern -countries to the rice of the Southern countries. Man 
depends on it for his daily bread. Cereal foods include the kernels of corn, 
oats, rye, rice, wheat, barley, etc., the breakfast foods, meals and flours 
made from them, or bread, cracfcers, muffins, e^es or pastry, which are 
rich in cereal products. Cereals are used in one form or another, such as 
in musheSj gruels, macaroni, bread mixtures and all "batters and doughs 
in every "home. As a rule, the more cereal food used the cheaper the diet. 

Cereal mush, or other cereal dishes, with milk for breakfast, furnishes 
a meal full of food value. It is a good plan to have several different kinds 
«f cereal preparations on band, such as those made from wheat, oat, corn, 
rye, barley and Tioe;, that there may be a ohange from day to day. Corn and 
oat preparations furnish particularly good winter foods, as they are rich in 
fat and are therefore valuable beat producers. Coinmeal, oatmeal, rice 
and hominy grits are cheaper than the "iready-to-eat" breakfast foods. 

As all eereals are rich in starch, they should be thoroiigbly cooked. 
The ciac&@d cereals should be cooked twelve hours, while the steamed 
and rolled preparations require only one-half hour or more, as they are 
partly cooked at the ifactory. 

Cereals when cooiked should 'be stiff enough so Aat they can l^e chewedi 
that the saliva of the mouth may be thoroughly mixed with the cooked starch. 



8 THE METROPOLITAN LII^E COOK BOOK 

GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING CEREALS 
Fill the lower part of a double boiler | full of water. Place over the 
fire. Measure the water needed for the cereal and pour it into the top 
of the double boiler. Place over the fire, and when the water begins to boil, 
add the salt and the cereal slowly and let boil over the fire 10 minutes. 
Place over the lower part of the double boiler containing water, cover and 
let steam until ready to serve. If more water is needed during cooking, 
add boiling water. 

(Instead of double boiler, two saucepans may be used, one a trifle larger 
than the other, the larger one serving as the lower part of the double boiler.) 
(By using the fireless cooker, the cereal can be boiled 10 minutes over 
the fire in the evening, and then cooked overnight in the fireless cooker.) 

CORNMEAL MUSH 
1| cups cornmeal 2 teaspoons salt 6 cups water 

Heat water to boiling point, add salt and the cornmeal slowly, stirring 
while adding. Boil directly over the fire 10 minutes, then cook over boiling 
water from 1 to 3 hours or overnight. Half milk and half water may be used. 

^ OATMEAL MUSH 

- 2J cups rolled oats 2 J teaspoons salt 6 cups boiling water 

Add the salt to the boiling water, stir in the rolled oats slowly and boil 10 
minutes directly over the fire. Cook over boiling water one-half hour or-more. 

STEAMED RICE 
1 cup rice 1 teaspoon salt 1 qt. boiling water or scalded milk 

Put water and salt in top of double boiler, add gradually the well-washed 
rice, stirring with a fork to prevent rice sticking to the boiler. Boil 5 minutes. 
Place over under part of double boiler and steam 45 minutes. Uncover that 
steam may escape. 

WHAT TO DO WITH LEFT-OVER CEREALS 

Fill molds with cereal mush packed tightly and let stand until cold 
and firm, slice and brown in fat. Serve with syrup. Cornmeal mush is 
very good for this. 

Cheese sauce, tomato sauce or creamed fish, meat or eggs may be 
served on slices of fried mush. 

Mix left-over mush with cheese, finely-chopped meat or fish, slightly 
beaten egg, and seasonings; shape into cakes and brown in fat, and serve 
with a sauce. 

Mix cereal mush with salt and pepper, shape into cakes, brush over 
with melted fat, place a small Hamburger steak on top, and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven until nicely browned. Oatmeal mush is particularly good. 

Mix cereal mush with fruit, mold and chill. Serve with cream or a 
fruit sauce as a dessert. 

Arrange cereal mush in layers with sweetened fruit in well-greased 
baking dish and bake until nicely browned on top. Serve with fruit sauce 
or cream as a dessert. 



TOAST 



Add cereal mush to yeast bread mixtures or quick bread mixtures, 
several recipes of which will be found in this book. 

Add cereal mush to meat loaf mixtures in place of bread crumbs, or both 
may be added. 

Add cereal mush to croquette mixtures. 

Boiled rice may be served with meat, or it may be served with cheese 
sauce as a supper dish, or it may be served with cream or a little sweetened 
fruit as a dessert. 



TOAST 

Toast is considered easy of digestion and is always palatable. 

How to Make Toast. — Cut stale bread into f-inch slices, put slices in a 
wire toaster, lock toaster and hold over or under the heat, holding it some 
distance from the fire that it may dry gradually, and then brown as desired. 
Toast, if piled compactly and allowed to stand, soon becomes moist. It 
should be served as soon after toasting as possible. 

CREAM TOAST 
Dip 8 slices of toast into the cream sauce. Pour remaining sauce on 
the pieces of toast and serve hot. 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE 
Rule 1 

1 pint scalded milk 2| tablespoons water 1 tablespoon butter 

2 J tablespoons flour J teaspoon salt or fat 

Mix the flour and the water until smooth; add a little more cold water 
to make it thin enough to pour; add the flour mixture gradually to the scalded 
milk, stirring constantly until thickened. Boil 5 minutes, if cooked directly 
over the fire; 20 minutes if cooked in double boiler. Add the salt and butter. 

Rule 2 
Melt the fat, when 2 tablespoons should be used ; add the flour, mixed 
with the salt, and stir until mixed. Add gradually the scalded milk, stirring 
all the time until all is added. Cook until smooth and thickened. 

NoTS. — Chipped beef, previously soaked in hot water, left-over cooked meat cut into 
small pieces, ilakea fish, oysters, finely-chopped cheese, chopped hard-cooked eggs or cooked 
vegetables may be added to the sauce, seasoned, heated and served on the toast. 

FRENCH TOAST 

1 egg slightly beaten Slices of bread 1 cup sweet milk 

i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sugar or syrup Fat to grease the griddle 

Add the salt, sugar and milk to the slightly beaten egg, dip the pieces 
of bread into the egg mixture. Cook the soaked slices of bread on a well- 
greased griddle; brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. Serve 
with maple syrup or jelly. Served with stewed fruit, makes a good^dessert. 



10 THE METROPOLITAN WFE COOK BOOK 



CEREAL FLOUR AND MEAL MIXTURES 

BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

From cereals we have flour and meals whfch can be used In a mimber 
of ways to make wholesome and palatable dishes. Rour Is used in batter 
and dough mixtures, and as mixtures of flours and batters alone when cooked 
would be hard and difficult of digestion, different leavens, such as baking- 
powder, soda and yeast, are used to make them light. 

Mixtures of flour or meal and liquid are called batters or doughs according 
to the quantity of liquid used. 

The dry ingredients include flour, meal, sugar, salt, spices, and baking- 
powder, soda, etc. iWixed flour mixtures furnish better body-building material 
than those made from one grain alone. 

Fats called "shortening," added to make the mixture tender, include 
butter, oleomargarine, nut margarine, drippings, lard, chicken fat or vegetable 
oils. (See directions for rendering fat to be used for shortening, page 38.) 

The liquids used in batters and doughs are water, milk, whey, molasses, 
syrups, coffee, eggs, etc. Sour milk may be used in recipes calling for sweet 
milk, when f teaspoon soda should be added for each cup of sour milk and 
for each I teaspoon soda added, 2 teaspoons less baking-powder is required. 

Batters are made "light" or "porous" by the introduction of a.gas which 
Is expanded by the heat during cooking. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING AND COOKmO 
GRIDDLE CAKES 

^ft flour before measuring. 

Put flour by spoonfuls into the measure and do not press or shake down. 

Measure, mix and sift dry ingredients. 

Measure the liquid ingredients and add to the dry ingredients. 

Mix thoroughly and add the melted fat. 

Use a frying-pan or griddle. 

Heat the pan hot without burning the cake. 

Grease the griddle if necessary. (A soap-stone ^ alunuaum griddle 
must never be greased.) 

Let the fat b^in to smoke before cooking the cakes. 

Pour the mixture from the tip of the spoon; cook on one side; when 
puffed full of bubbles and cooked on the edges, turn and cook on other side. 

If large bubbles form at once on the top of the cakes, the griddle is too hot. 

If the top of the cake stiffens before the under side is cooked, the griddle 
is Dot hot enough. 

Never turn a cake twice. 

Remove scraps and wipe pan after each set of cakes is cooked. 

Grease pan and repeat. 

Serve griddle cakes as soon as cooked. 



CEREAIv FLOUR AND MEAIv MIXTURES 11 



WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

I cup whole wheat J teaspoon salt 1} cups milk 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon melted fat 

1 tablespoon baking-powder 1 egg 

Measure, mix and sift the first 5 ingredients, add the milk, egg and 
melted fat; mix thoroughly and cook according to directions. 

BUCKWHEAT AND RYE GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup buckwheat If teaspoons salt 1 egg 

1 cup rye 2 cups milk 1 tablespoon melted fat 

4 teaspoons baking-powder 2 tablespoons corn syrup 

Measure, mix and sift the first 4 ingredients; add the milk, egg and 
melted fat and corn syrup; mix thoroughly and cook according to directions 

VELVET GRIDDLE CAKES 
21 cups fiour IJ tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon melted fat 

i teaspoon salt 2 beaten egg yolks 2 beaten egg whites 

4 teaspoons baking-powder 2 cups milk 

Measure, mix and sift the first 4 ingredients; add the milk, egg yolks 
and fat, and mix thoroughly. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and cook 
according to general directions. 

CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup cornmeal or 1 or 2 beaten eggs If tablespoons baking- 

oatmeal mush 2 teaspoons salt powder 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons sugar 3 taJblespoons melted fat 

Mix the first 5 Ingredients; add the flour sifted with the baking-powder, 
then the fat; mix thoroughly and cook according to directions. Boiled rice, 
mashed white or sweet potatoes may be used in place of the cornmeal mush. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 
1 1 cups stale bread 2 tablespoons fat 2 eggs 

crumbs 1| tablespoons baking- | cup flour 

1| cups scalded milk powder | teaspoon salt 

Add milk and fat to crumbs and soak until crumbs are soft. Add eggs, 
well beaten; then flour, salt and baking-powder, mixed and sifted. Beat. 
Cook according to general directions. 

RAISED BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 
2 cups scalded milk | teaspoon salt J teaspoon soda dissolved 

J yeast cake, mixed with 2 cups buckwheat with 2 tablespoons 

J cup lukewarm water 1 tablespoon molasses lukewarm water 

Scald milk. Cool. When lukewarm, add the yeast cake mixture and 
buckwheat flour and salt. Beat mixture thoroughly. Cover and let rise over- 
night. In the morning add remaining ingredients. Beat; drop by spoonfuls 
onto well-greased griddle; cook on one side, and when puffed full of bubbles 
and cooked on edges, turn and cook on the other side. Serve with butter 
and syrup. 



12 THB METROPOLITAN LIFK COOK BOOK 



WAFFLES 

U cups flour I teaspoon salt 2 egg ywTits 

I ta&lesf)ooii tiaMo!^ 2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons ntefted fat 
powder 1 cup milk 2 egg whites 

MeasoEe, mix imd sift titie first 4 ingredients; add the iriTlIk, egg 
yolks and melted; fat, and mix tboi«nigMy> Fold in tets stifiiy beaten egg 
whites. Cook in a well-greased waffle iron. 

To make rice waffles, add 1 cupftrl boiled rice to the above mixture. 

To make rice snd cornmea) waffles, use | cup floui^ J eitp co'cmneal 
and t ci^> boiled rice in place of the If eups flour. 



GENERAL BIRECTIOITS FOR MAKING MUFFINS 

Measure, mix and sift the dry ingredients. 

Add well-beatea egg, nulk and fat, melted. Mix thoroughly. 

Half ftU weB-greased muffln tins and bake in a hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. 

By measuring dry ingredients first, tben liquids and. fats, ouiy I cup need 
be used for measurta^ When milk and eggs are usedj, rinse egg from bowl 
with mMk. 

TIME TABLE FOR BAKING BATTERS AKD DOFGHS 

Muffins, 12 to 25 nunutes Raised biscuit, 12 to 30 minutes 

Gingerbread, 25 to 45 minutes Loaf eake, 40 to 60 nuiiute& 

B. P. biscuits, 12 to 15 minutes 'Wliite bread, 45 to 60 minutes 

Cookies, 9- to tS minutes Rye bread, 60 minutes 

Layer cake, 12 to 20 minutes Beaten bread, 45 to 60' minutes 

PLAIN MIIFFWS 

1 f cups fionir ^ teaspoon salt 1 cup m^ 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 2 to 4 tablespoons melted 
4 teaspoons baking-powdeir fat 

Measure, mix and aft the first 4 m<gredlents; add the we^beaten egg, 
milk and melted fa^ and mix thorongbly. Drop by spoonfuls- into well- 
greased muffin pans and bake 20 to 30 minutes. Substitute f cup conimeal, 
rye Sour, buckwheat flour or oatmeal for J cup of the flour i» ttoe jeeipe to 
reduce the quantity of white Sour. Half cup less of inSk may be osed and 
1 cup of berries added to the mixture. 

aXE MUFFIKS 
li cups rye ftour 1 well-beatea. egg 2 tabfespeons molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 2 tablespoons melted fat 

1 tabiespooit baking-powder 
Fellow general Erections. 

EGGLESS COEOTiaEAI, MUFFHTS 
cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon baking- 2 tablespoons syrup 

cup flour powder 2 tablespoons melted fat 

teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

Follow general directions. ' 



MUFFINS 13 



GRAHAM MUFFINS 
1 cup Graham meal 3i teaspoons baking- 1 well-beaten egg 

1 cup flour powder 1 1 cups milk 

f teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons corn syrup 2 tablespoons melted fat 

Mix and bake as other muffins. Nuts and raisins may be added. 

BRAN MUFFINS 

2 cups bran 2 teaspoons baking-powder 1 i cups sour milk 
J teaspoon salt 1| teaspoons soda 1 well-beaten egg 

1 cup flour I cup molasses 3 tablespoons melted fat 

Mix and sift the flour, soda, salt and baking-powder. Add the bran 
and flJe odier ingredients in order given; beat thoroughly. Bake in well- 
buttered muffin pans about 25 minutes. Raisins may be added. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 
I cup raUed oats } teaspoon salt If cups flour 

1 cup s^ded milk 2 tablespoons melted fat 4 teaspoons baking- 

3 tabt^poons syrup 1 well-beaten egg powder 

Add scalded milk to the rolled oats, let stand 10 minutes; add syrup, 
salt and melted fat; mix thoroughly. Stir in the flour which has been sifted 
with tlie baldng-powder. Add the egg and drop in well-greased muffin tins 
and bake. 

CEREAL MUFFINS 
1 cup cereal mush (left- 1| cups flour | teaspoon salt 

over), mixed with 1| tablespoons baking- 2 tablespoons melted fat 

J cap milk and 2 powder 

tablespoons syrup 

Add the flour which has been sifted with the salt and baking-powder 
to the cereal and milk mixture; stir in the melted fat. Drop by spoonfuU 
into well-greased muffin tins. Bake according to directions. One well- 
beaten egg added to the mixture makes it better. 

POTATO CORNMEAL MUFFINS (EGOLESS) 
1 cup of mashed potatoes 1 tablespoon syrup 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup of cornmeal 4 teaspoons baking- 2 tablespoons fat (melted) 

1 teaspoon salt powder 

Mix the dry ingredients; add to the potatoes, stir in milk and fat, and 
bake for 20 minutes in hot oven. The amount of milk used will vary with 
the quality of the meal. Stir in just enough to make mixture drop easily 
from the spoon. 

RICH MUFFINS 
i cup fat § cup milk ^ teaspoon salt 

i cup sugar 2 cu,ps flour 

1 egg 1 tablespoon baking-powder 

Gream the shortening, add the sugar gradually, vell-beaten egg, milk 
and the flour mixed and sifted with the baking-powder and salt. Beat until 
ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Bake in well-jgreased muffin tins about 
23 minutes. 



14 THE METROPOUTAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



POP-OVERS 
1 cup flour I cup milk I teaspoon melted 

4 teaspoon salt 2 eggs shortening 

Mix salt and flour, add | the milk; beat until smooth. Add remaining 
I of milk, well-beaften eggs and shortening. Beat 2 minutes with Dover egg- 
beater. Rye flour or whole wheat flour may be used for all or part of the 
white flour. Turn into hot greased iron gem pans, and bake about 35 minutes 
in a hot oven. Halves of canned peaches may be dropped into mixture in 
pan just before baking. The mixture will cover the peach. Serve with 
peach sauce. 

Creamed meat or vegetables may be served in pop-over cases, or prune 
whip, blanc mange or chocolate cream filling may be served in the pop-over 
cases. 

CORN CAKE 
f cup cornmeal } teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

1 cup flour 1 egg, well beaten 1 to 3 tablespoons melted 

i cup sugar fat 

IJ tablespoons baking-powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg, well beaten, milk and the melted 
fat. Beat. Bake in a shallow, greased pan in a hot oven 20 minutes or more. 
One cup sour milk may be used in place of the sweet milk, using | teaspoon 
soda and only 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 

HOT-WATER GINGERBREAD 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda § teaspoon salt 

i cup boiling watec 1 teaspoon cinnamon | cup melted fat 

2 to 2| cups flour 1 J teaspoons ginger 

Add water to molasses. Mix and sift dry ingredients. Combine 
mixtures. Add fat and beat vigorously. Pour into a greased pan, or muffin 
tins, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. One well-beaten egg may 
be added to the liquids. This may be steamed and served as a pudding 
with hard sauce, whipped cream or fruit sauce. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS 
2 cups mixed flour f teaspoon salt 1 to 2 tablespoons fat 

4 teaspoons baking-powder About | cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Rub in fat with tips of fingers, or chop 
in with a knife. Add milk gradually to make a soft dough. Use a knife 
in mixing. Toss on a well-floured board. Pat and roll out to 1-inch thick- 
ness. Cut with a biscuit cutter dipped in flour. Place close together on a 
greased pan. Bake in a hot oven 10 to 15 minutes. 

One cup flour with 1 cup rye flour or whole wheat, or 1§ cups flour 
with I cup cornmeal, or 1 cup flour with 1 cup mashed potatoes may be used 
in place of the 2 cups of flour. One cup rye and 1 cup buckwheat flour and 
two extra teaspoons of baking-powder may be used in place of the white 
flour, «nd a little more milk will be required. 



MUFFINS 15 



DUMPLINGS 
Follow directions for baking-powder biscuits, using only two teaspoons 
fat. Place the dough by spoonfuls on the top of a boiling stew. Cover and 
boil 12 minutes without removing the cover. 

QUICK BISCUITS 
Add to the ingredients for biscuits enough more milk to make a thick 
batter ^out 2 tablespoons) ; drop by spoonfuls onto a well-greased pan, J inch 
apart. The mixture should not be soft enough to spread. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

TEA CAKES 
Add to the dry ingredients for biscuits 4 tablespoons of sugar. Mix 
and beat. Bake in greased mufiin tins 25 to 30 minutes. One egg may be 
added, using 2 tablespoons less milk. 

CORWMEAL ROLLS 
li cups flour 2 tablespoons fat 1 teaspoon salt 

f cup oommeal 1 egg 1 tablespoon sugar 

3 tea^wons baking-powder i cup milk 

MiK and sift dry ingredients and cut in the fat. Beat the egg and add 
the milk to it. Add liquids to the dry ingredients to make a soft dough. Toss 
and roll out and shape rolls, and bake in hot oven from 12 to 15 minutes. These 
may be msad'e with rye flour and cornmeal, or rye flour alone. 

PmWHEEL BISCUITS 
2 cups iHtxed flour i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons citron, 

2 tabte|HSBas sugar 2 tablespoons fat finely chopped 

4 teaspsoee.J»aking- f cup milk | teaspoon cinnamon 

poVfdef I cup stoned raisins, finely chopped 

Mh as baking-powder biscuits mixture. Roll to i-inch thickness; brush 

with isetted butter substitute and sprinkle with fruit, sugar and cinnamon. 

Roll like fdiy roll; cut off pieces f-inch thick. Place pieces on a greased tin 

and bate in a hot oven about 15 minutes. 

FRUIT LOAF 
Prepare pinwheel biscuit roll. Press ends together firmly to hold in 
the fruit. Hace in a greased baking-pan, cover with Syrup Mixture: 

1 cup sjimp 1 tablespoon fat 1 cup water] ' 

Ba^e and baste with syrup mixture. Serve as a dessert with cream. 

SOUR MILK OR SODA BISCUITS 

2 cups flour 1 tablespoon baking-powder | cup thick sour cream 
i teaspoon soda | teaspoon salt or milk enough to 

make a soft dough 
Alj^ and sift dry ingredients, add liquids gradually to make a soft dough. 
Pat, roll out and cut into biscuits. Bake in a well-greased pan in a moderately 
hot oven. 

SHORT CAKE 
Number 1 
2 cups mixed flour 2 tablespoons sugar | cup fat 

4 teaspoons baking-powder | teaspoon salt About | cup milk 



16 THK METROPOLITAN I,IFE COOK BOOK 



Mix as baking-powder biscuit dough. Divide the dough into 2 equal 
parts. Shape one to fit a shallow greased tin. Brush the top of the dough 
with melted fat, shape and place the second portion of dough over the first. 
Bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. Split. Put crushed and sweetened fruit 
on one half. Place the other half over it. JVIore fruit may be placed on top. 
Fresh strawberries, peaches, or 'stewed, fresh [or dried fruit may be used. 
Serve with whipped cream if liked. 

Number 2 
2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking- ~ J cup sugar About | cup milk 

powder | cup fat 

Mix same as Short Cake No. 1, adding the well-beaten egg to the milk. 

APPLE JOHN 
Put stewed apple or other fruit, sweetened and seasoned, into a greased 
pudding dish. Cover the fruit with a short-cake dough mixture and bake in 
a hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. Invert onto the serving dish, sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon. Serve. 

MEAT ROLLS 
Make a short-cake dough, made with l oatmeal. Mix finely chopped 
meat with a thick, highly seasoned sauce, or cereal mush. Shape into 
croquettes, cover with a thin layer of dough, bake in a hot oven. Serve with 
a hot sauce. 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE 
i cup fat I cup milk J cup cornmeal 

1 cup sugar I teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon baking- 

2 eggs (beaten separately) Ij cups sifted flour powder 

Cream the fat, add sugar gradually, then the well-beaten eggs and milk 
alternately with the flour, measured, mixed and sifted with the baking- 
powder and cornmeal. Spread mixture in a well-greased, shallow tin. 
Spread the top with melted fat, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in 
a moderately hot oven 20 minutes. 

APPLE CAKE 
Put short-cake 'dough in a well-greased pan. Arrange apples cut in 
eighths over the top. Brush over with corn syrup. Bake. * 

BAKING-POWDER BREADS 
SOUR MILK GRAHAM BREAD 

3 cups Graham flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon baking-powder 
1 cup white flour 1 teasnoon soda 2 cups sour milk 

I cup brown sugar 

Measure, mix and sift dry ingredients. Add the sour milk and beat 
mixture thoroughly until ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Drop mixture 
into well-greased bread pans and bake in a moderately hot oven about 1 hour. 



MUFFINS 17 



GRAHAM BAKING-POWDER NUT BREAD 
3 cups Graham flour 1 teaspoon salt 2| cups milk 

1 cup white flour If tablespoons baking- 1 cup nut meats 

1 cup sugar powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add liquids and nut meats. Mix thoroughly, 
put into greased bread pan, let stand 25 minutes. Bake about 50 minutes 
or until done, 

BUCKWHEAT NUT BREAD 

2 cups buckwheat flour 1 tablespoon baking- ^ cup nut meats 

2 cups white flour powder IJ cups milk and | cup 
J teaspoon salt | teaspoon soda molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add the nuts and liquids. Beat thoroughly. 
Pour mixture into well-greased bread pan, let stand 20 minutes, then bake 
about 45 minutes. Raisins, dates or candied orange or lemon peel may 
be added. 

RICE BREAD 
I cup cold boiled rice 1 tablespoon baking-powder I egg, well beaten 
i cup cornmeal J teaspoon salt i cup milk 

J cup wheat flour 2 tablespoons syrup 1 tablespoon melted fat 

Measure, mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the rice, egg, milk 
and fat. Beat thoroughly. Pour into shallow, greased pan, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

PEANUT BREAD 
I cup rye flour i cup sugar If cups milk 

3 cups flour 2| tablespoons baking- 1 well-beaten egg 

1 teaspoon salt powder 1 cup chopped peanuts 

Measure, mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the milk and eggs 
mixed and the peanuts. Beat mixture thoroughly and turn into 2 well- 
greased bread pans. Bake 45 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

CURRANT BREAD 
1 J cups flour J teaspoon salt 1' egg, well beaten 

i cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup currants, dredged 

1 tablespoon baking-powder 1 cup milk with flour 

Measure, mix and sift dry ingredients. Add the milk mixed with egg 
and the currants. Beat mixture thoroughly. Turn mixture into a well- 
greased bread tin, cover and let stand 20 minutes. Bake in a moderately 
hot-oven 30 minutes. 

STEAMED BREADS 
GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR STEAMING BREADS 
A mold, a tin-pail, such as a lard pail; or a can, such as a baking-powder 
can, with a tightly-fitting cover may be used. 

Grease "the inside of the mold thoroughly. The greased molds should 
be filled -| full. The molds should be covered with well-greased paper and 
the covers adjusted securely and tied down with a string. The molds should 
be placed on a rest or several layers of soft paper in a large kettle, containing 
enough boiling water to reach half way to the top of the mold. 



18 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



Keep the water boiling all the time during the steaming. Add more 
boiling water if necessary. 

Cover the kettle during the steaming, and be careful not to jar it while 
cooking. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 
1 cup rye meal " 1 teaspoon salt | cup molasses 

I cup cornmeal | tablespoon soda 2 cups sour milk 

1 cup Graham flour 

Measure, mix and sift dry ingredients. Add the liquids and beat 
thoroughly. Pour mixture into well-greased steamer mold. Cover closely 
and steam about 4 hours. Raisins may be added to the mixture. 

STEAMED OATMEAL BREAD 
li cups rolled oats 2 tablespoons baking-powder 1| cups milk 
1 i cups cornmeal i teaspoon soda 1 egg 

1 J teaspoons salt 3 tablespoons molasses 2 tablespoons melted fat 

Measure, mix and sift the first 5 ingredients. Add the other ingredients 
and mix thoroughly. Turn mixture into well-greased mold and steam 2 hours. 



BREAD AND BREAD MAKING 19 



BREAD AND BREAD MAKING 

In most households bread is the chief cereal food served, and is often 
called the "Staff of Life." It is most important that the bread should be 
well made, light and crusty, that it may be wholesome, nutritious and palatable. 

When well made it is a food of which we do not tire. Soggy bread forms 
tough lumps which the digestive organs cannot work upon as they should, 
and when such bread is eaten daily it may do serious harm. 

A good loaf of bread' should be light, the cavities of uniform size and 
evenly distributed throughout the loaf. The loaf should be small, rather 
than large, that it may be thoroughly baked, the crust should be a golden 
brown, and either soft or crisp, but not tough. 



mGREDIENTS NEEDED FOR BREAD MAKING 
The necessary ingredients for bread making are flour, liquid and yeast. 

LIQUIDS USED 
The liquids used may be water, rice water, potato water, whey milk or 
milk and water. Starchy water, such as potato or rice water, makes a more 
moist loaf. Milk changes the flavor of the loaf, makes it richer in food 
value and a more tender crumb and crust. Usually one cup of liquid is 
allowed for each loaf of bread the size of a brick loaf pan. 

FLOUR 

White flour is the most important in bread making, with rye flour second. 
'K^hen wheat is ground into a fine flour, it has the power of stretching and 
expanding, making it ideal for*bread making. It holds the air and carbon 
dioxide, and hardens on baking, forming the framework of the loaf of br.ead. 

Corn and oats lack this quahty, and therefore they are combined with 
white flour for baking purposes. Rye flour may be used alone or with white 
flour in bread making. 

Americans have formed the habit of eating almost exclusively bread 
made with white flour alone, not realizing that other breads, such as rye, 
rye meal, whole wheat, whole cornmeal and oatmeal, are very good to eat 
and richer in food value. Bread made witn white flour alone does not contain 
the lime or other mineral salts necessary to build up bones and teeth for 
growing children. The coarser cereals also relieve constipation. 

The present emergency demands that we use less wheat, and it is a 
good lesson for us to learn, as it is in the interest of health that we eat 
bread made with mixed cereals. 

The quantity of flour used, together with the handling of the ingredients, 
has much to do with the quality of the bread. For a firm, fine-grained loaf 
of bread, 3 to 4 times as much flour as Uquid is used. For a coarse grain, 
from 2| to 3 times as much flour as liquid is used. 



20 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



From i to equal measures of other cereal flours may be added to the 
wheat flour. Mashed potatoes, boiled rice or left-over cereal mush may be 
used to good advantage in this way. 

FLAVORS 

Salt is us«;d in bread making to give flavor, usually allowing | teaspoon salt 
to a cup of liquid, or for 1 loaf. 

Sugar, syrup or molasses is added to give flavor and hasten the rising, 
allowing 1 or 2 tablespoons to each cup of liquid. Fat, such as butter, lard, 
oleomargarine, nut-margarine, suet, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, or corn oil, 
is added to the loaf to make the loaf richer and more tender, allowing 1 table- 
spoon to each cup of liquid. 

YEAST 

Compressed, dry or liquid yeast is used to make bread light. In any 
form there is a collection of yeast plants massed together in a way that they 
will keep for some time. The strength of yeast depends upon the care with 
which it is made and preserved. Liquid yeasts are apt to be full of bacteria 
which will cause bread to sour. Every yeast cake contains millions of tiny 
yeast plants. 

Air, warmth, moisture and a nitrogenous soil are necessary for their 
growth. AH these conditions are provided when they are mixed with flour 
and liquid. 

Heat will kill the yeast plants, while cold checks their growth, therefore 
in bread making the yeast mixture should never come in contact with anything 
hot until baking time, or be exposed to cold unless it is desirable to stop the 
rising for awhile. The amount of yeast used depends on the length of time 
desired for the process. 

One yeast cake to a quart of liquid, or for 4 loaves of bread, is used if 
bread is started in the morning. One yeast cake to 2 quarts of liquid or 8 
loaves of bread, is used if allowed to rise overnight. 

Because of the high price of yeast, it may "be a good plan to make liquid 
yeast when yeast mixtures are prepared regularly at home. 

RECIPE FOR LIQUID YEAST 
Four medium-sized potatoes, pared and boiled in 1 quart water. Mash 
the potatoes and add 2 teaspoons salt, 3 tablespoons sugar and the water in 
which the potatoes were boiled. Cool and add 1 dry yeast cake or 1 compressed 
yeast cake which has been mixed with J cup lukewarm water. Pour into a 
stone or glass jar, cover and let stand in a warm place 3 hours or more. Each 
time mixture reaches top of jar, stir down; do this until it stops working. 
Cciver and put in a cool place. Use | cup liquid yeast in place of 1 yeast 
cake. Continue to use until there is but | cup left, then prepare according 
to above recipe, using | cup in place of 1 yeast cake in starting the new batch. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BREAD MAKING 

First: Scald the liquids, add the salt, sugar and fat; cooL 

Second: Mix the yeast with i cup lukewarm liquid, using yeast according 



BREAD AND BREAD MAKING 21 



to the time desired for the process. If dry yeast is used, mix it with a little 
lukewarm liquid and flour several hours before adding it to the sponge. 

Third: Add the yeast mixture to the lukewarm liquid mixture. 

Fourth: Sift the flour, allowing 3 to 4 cups for each loaf. Add i of the 
flour to the liquid mixture and beat thoroughly. Add more flour to make 
a dough, using a knife, until, when touched with the finger, the dough does 
not stick to the finger. A bread mixer is a time and labor saver. Turn dough 
onto a slightly floured board; knead by pushing the dough into the palms of 
the hands and drawing it forward with the fingers. Use as little flour as 
possible on board and hands while kneading. Continue until the dough is 
smooth and elastic to the touch. It takes from 15 to 20 minutes to knead 
with the hands and about 3 minutes in the bread mixer. Thorough kneading 
makes fine-grained bread. 

Fifth: Put dough in a bowl, brush over with milk, cover closely, put in 
a warm (not hot) place and let rise to double its bulk. This may be over- 
night or in the daytime, depending on the quantity of yeast used. 

Sixth: Knead again, shaping into loaves; divide dough into as many 
portions as there are cups of liquid in the mixture. Place in pans, brush 
over with skimmed milk or melted fat. 

Seventh: Cover and let rise in a warm place to double their bulk. 

Eighth: Bake loaves from 50 to 60 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Ninth: Cool loaves on a rack or place them so the air can circulate freely 
around the loaf. 

WHITE BREAD 

1 cup scalded milk 1 J teaspoons salt 1 yeast cake mixed with 

1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon sugar or I cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons fat syrup 6 cups flour 

Follow general directions. 

To make potato bread, add 2 cups mashed potatoes to the liquids. Use 
only 1 cup liquid and less flour is needed. 

ENTIRE WHEAT OR BRAN BREAD 
1 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 2 1 cups flour 

1 cup scalded milk 4f cups coarse entire J yeast cake mixed with 
J cup molasses wheat flour J cup lukewarm water 

Follow general directions. 

RYE BREAD 

May be made as directed for entire wheat bread, using rye flour in place 
of the whole wheat flour. 

RYE AND OATMEAL BREAD 

2 cups hot liquid 1 teaspoon salt 2 cups white flour 

1 cup oatmeal J yeast cake mixed with 3 cups rye flour or all rye 

2 tablespoons fat i cup lukewarm liquid and cornmeal. 
i cup molasses 

Pour the hot liquid over the oatmeal, add the fat, molasses and salt. 
Follow general directions. 



22 THE METROPOUTAN WFE COOK BOOK 



OATMEAL BREAD 
2 cups thick oatmeal 2 tablespoons corn syrup Yeast mixed with J cup 

mush 2 teaspoons salt lukewarm water 

1 or 2 tablespoons fat 4| cups flour 

Follow general directions. 

RICE BREAD 
2 cups boiled rice (J cup 2J teaspoons salt 3 cups Graham flour 

rice) 2 tablespoons syrup 5f cups white flour 

l*tablespoon fat Yeast 

Follow general directions. 

BUCKWHEAT BREAD 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons fat 3 cups buckwheat flour 

1 cup lukewarm water 4 tablespoons corn syrup 4 cups white flour 

2 teaspoons salt Yeast 

Follow general directions. 

ROLLS AND HOW TO MAKE THEM 

PARKERHOUSE ROLLS 

1 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 1 yeast cake mixed with 

1 cup scalded milk 3 tablespoons fat i cup lukewarm water 

3 tablespoons sugar or syrup Flour 

Follow directions for making bread. Mashed potato may be used, and 
less liquid and flour is required. 

Shape the dough into biscuits, let rise again, then, with the handle of a 
case knife dipped in flour, crease through the middle of each biscuit, or roll 
with rolling pin to oblong shape. Brush | of each with melted fat, fold and 
press together. Cover, let rise and bake in a hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

CLOVER LEAF BISCUITS 
Clover leaf biscuits may be made by shaping round biscuits; brush them 
with melted fat. Drop 3 of them into each well-greased muffin pan. Let 
rise and bake. 

SWEET ROLLS 
1 cup milk I cup sugar Flour to make a dough • 

1 cup mashed potato or Grated rind of I lemon J cup melted fat 

mashed squash 1 yeast cake mixed with 

1 teaspoon salt i cup lukewarm water 

Follow directions for making bread. Shape into rolls and bake. Raisins 
or dates may be added. 

CINNAMON ROLLS 

Roll the above dough mixture into a rectangular shape. Roll to J-inch 

thickness, brush with melted fat and sprinkle with fruit, sugar and cinnamon. 

Roll like jelly-roll; cut off pieces j-inch thick. Place pieces in a greased 

tin and let rise to double their bulk and bake in a hot oven about 15 minutes; 



BREAD AND BREAD MAKING 



23 



or put^hem close together in a bread pan. Let rise to double tlieir bulk; 
when baked, cover with syrup and cinnamon. 



1 cup syrup 



SYRUP 
I teaspoon cinnamon 



; cup boiling water 



BREAD THAT REQUIRES NO KNEADING 

In making bread that requires no kneading general rules for mixing 
given for kneaded bread should be followed, and the mixture beaten thoroughly 
instead of kneaded. It should be beaten the second time to distribute the 
gas bubbles evenly, and to make a fine-grained loaf. Well-greased pans 
should be half filled with the mixture. 

The mixture should rise in the pan until double its bulk and no more, 
and then be baked ia a hot oven at least 45 minutes or until brown on all 
sides, and until a hollow sound can be produced when the loaf is tapped with 
the finger. 

When baked, loaves should be placed so that air can circulate freely 
around them until cooled. They should be put away unwrapped in a tin 
box or stone jar. 

BRAN BREAD 
i yeast cake mixed with 
2 tablespoons water 
if mixed overnight, 
or 1 yeast cake 
mixed with i cup 
lukewarm water, if 
mixed in the morn- 
ing. 



2 cups boiling water or 
1 cup scalded m^k 
and 1 cup boiling 
water 

2 tablespoons fat 



I cup sugar or | cup 

molasses or syrup 
H cups white flour 
3 1 cups bran 
1 teaspoon salt 



Follow directions lor beaten bread. 



2 cups warm (not hot) 
left-over cereal 
mush, such as oat- 
meal, cornmeal, 
barley or steamed 
rice 



HEALTH BREAD 
4 tablespoons syrup 1 cup dates, stoned and 

li teaspoons salt cut in pieces (may 

2 tablespoons fat be omitted) 

I yeast cake mixed with Flour to make a dough 

i cup lukewarm water stiff enough to knead 



Follow directions for beaten bread. 



24 THE METROPOI.ITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



BEVERAGES 

TEA COFFEE COCOA CHOCOLATE 



Children and young people who have not stopped growing should not 
drink any tea or coffee. Tea and coffee should never be taken on an empty 
stomach, unless as a medicine. 

TEA 

To Make Tea. — Allow one teaspoon of tea to each cup of boiling water. 
Scald the teapot with boiling water, put in the tea, pour on the boiling water, 
and let it stand covered from 3 to 5 minutes. 

COFFEE 

To Make Filtered Coffee. — Allow 1 tablespoon of pulverized coffee to 

1 cup boiling water. Scald the coffee-pot. Put coffee in strainer or muslin 
bag in coffee-pot; put on the range. Add gradually the boiling water and 
allow it to Alter. Cover between additions of water. If desired stronger, 
refilter. This is considered the most economical way of preparing coffee. 
The coffee bag should be kept in cold water and not allowed to dry between 
the times it is used. 

BREAKFAST COCOA 

2 cups scalded milk Few grains sugar 2 to 4 tablespoons sugar 
2 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons prepared cocoa 

Mix dry ingredients in saucepan; stir in boiling water gradually and 
boil 5 minutes. Add milk and cook 5 minutes longer, or until smooth and 
free from lumps. Mill with a Dover egg-beater to prevent albuminous skin 
from forming on top. - 

CHOCOLATE 

1 J squares Baker's 4 tablespoons sugar 1 cup boiling water 

Chocolate Few grains salt 4 cups milk 

Scald milk, melt chocolate in small saucepan placed over hot water; 
add sugar, salt and gradually boiling water while stirring; when smooth, 
place over the Are and boil 1 minute; add to scalded milk. Mill by beatihg 
with Dover egg-beater, and serve. Whipped cream or a marshmallow may 
be served on top of the chocolate. 



SOUPS 



25 



SOUPS 

Left-overs of meat, fish, vegetables and cereals can be used advan- 
tageously in making soups. The heavy vegetable pulp soups, such as split 
pea or bean soup, the cream of vegetable soups and the milk chowders are 
rich in food value. The thin meat stocks are valuable chiefly as appetizers. 
The plain vegetable soups contain the food value of the vegetables they 
contain. If cereals are added, it increases the food value. 

Meat stock is water in which meat and meat bones have been cooked. 
"When dark meat is used, it is called brown stock; when light meat is used, 
it is called white stock. Vegetable stock is water in which vegetables have 
been cooked. 



SCOTCH BROTH 
3 pounds mutton from Tsliced carrot 
the neck 2 sliced onions 

2 quarts cold water 4 stalks celery 

2 tablespoons salt 



3 tablespoons rice or 3 
tablespoons barley 
soaked overnight or 
2 tablespoons flour 
for thickening. 

Remove the skin and fat from meat thst has been wiped with a damp 
cloth. Cut the meat into small pieces, put into the kettle with the carrot, 
onion and water. Heat gradually to boiling point and cook until meat is 
tender, strain and remove any fat. Reheat to boiling point, add the rice or 
barley and cook until the rice or barley is soft. The meat should not be 
thrown away, but used in stews, croquettes or meat cakes. If combined 
with a little broth, the flavor is restored. 



TOMATO SOUP 

I teaspoon cloves 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 slice onion 
1 teaspoon salt 



1 teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons fat 

i cup boiled rice 



1 can tomatoes 
1 pint rice water 
1 tablespoon whole 

peppers 
Bit of bay leaf 

Cook first 7 ingredients 20 minutes. Strain. Add salt and soda. 
Mix the flour with an equal amount of water until smooth, add more water 
until thin enough to pour. Stir soup while adding gradually the flour mixture, 
called thickening; boil 5 minutes. Strain, add boiled rice, fat, and serve. 

Rice may be omitted. The flour may be omitted. 



J onion 

J cup fat 

I tablespoon parsley 



1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts water 



VEGETABLE SOUP 

i cup carrot 
I cup turnip 
§ cup celery 
IJ cups potato 

Cut vegetables into cubes. Cook the vegetables, except the potatoes 
and parsley, 10 minutes, in the suet. Add water and potatoes and cook 1 
hour. Add parsley and seasonings. A soup bone may be added. Barley 



26 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



or rice may be cooked with the vegetables and served in the soup. Tomatoes, 
cabbage, peas, beans, spinach, or any other vegetable, may be added as 
desired. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

1 cup dried spEt peas 4-inch cube salt fat pork | teaspoon pepper 
3 quarts cold water 1 ham bone IJ teaspoons salt 
§ onion 2 tablespoons flour 

Pick over peas and soak overnight; drain; add cold water, pork, ham 
bone and onion. Simmer 3 or 4 hours, or until peas are soft. Rub through 
a sieve. Add the flour mixed with cold water to the soup. Boil 5 minutes, 
stirring constantly. Add seasonings. Cubed potatoes or boiled parsnips 
may be added to the soup; tomato juice and green peas may be added to 
give variety. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP 
3 cups cold baked beans H cups stewed and 1 tablespoon Chili sauce 

3 pints water strained tomatoes Salt 

2 slices lemon 2 tablespoons fat Pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 

Put first 4 ingredients in saucepan; bring to boiling point and simmer 
30 minutes. Rub through a sieve, add seasonings, thicken with the flour, 
add fat, and serve with crisp crackers. 

Celery stalks,, celery salt, or the dried leaves of celery may be added. 

CREAM SOUPS 
Cream soups are made with thickened mitk, combined with meat 
stock, fish stock or vegetable stock and pulp. They take their name from 
the kind of stock used, such as cream of chicken, cream of fish or cream of 
celery, potato, or whatever kind of vegetable or other food is used. With 
bread and butter, cream soup furnishes a complete meal. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CREAM SOUPS 

3 cups scalded milk 2 cups seasoned stock Seasonings to taste 
2 slices onion or vegetable pulp and stock 

i cup flour mixed with i cup water 

Scald the milk with the onion, remove the onion and thicken the milk 
by adding the flour and water mixture and cooking It 20 minutes over hot 
water to prevent burning. Boil 2 cups vegetables, cut in small pieces, in 
water to cover; force the vegetables when done through a strainer or leave 
pieces in soup. Add the vegetable pulp and water in which the vegetables 
have been cooked to the thickened milk. Season and serve. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP 
2 cups finely-chopped carrots I teaspoon sugar | cup flour mixed with 
1 quart boiling water 3 cups milk i cup water 

1 teaspoon salt 1 slice onion Salt and pepper 



SOUPS 



27 



3 cups celery 

1 pint boiling water 

1 slice onion 



2 cups corn 
1 pint water 

3 cups milk 



CREAM OF CELERY 
2 tablespoons rice i cup flour mixed with 
cooked in 3 cups of i cup water 
milk Seasonings 



CREAM OF CORN 

1 slice onion 

2 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon salt 



1 tablespoon sugar 
Few grains pepper 



3 tablespoons water 
Salt and pepper 



CREAM OF TOMATO 
3 cups tomato Juice and 3 cups milk scalded, 

pulp cooked with | with 2 slices onion 

teaspoon soda 1 minute 3 tablespoons flour 

Follow directions given above. Potatoes, lima beans, string beans, 
asparagus, or a combination of vegetables, such as peas, string beans, spinach, 
onions, etc., may be used. If the vegetabes are finely cut, they may be left 
in the soup. 

NoTU. — Cream soups may be thickened with oatmeal or barley cooked with the milk 
mitil thickened and then strained. 

CORN CHOWDER 
Fat salt pork, 1 inch by 4 potatoes cut in i-inch I quart milk 

3 inches slices 8 crackers 

1 'sliced onion 1 can corn Salt and pepper 

Cut pork into small pieces and try it out in a pan over a slow fire. Add 
the sliced onion and cook 5 minutes without burning. Strain fat into a 
saucepan. Add potatoes and boiling water to fat and cook until potatoes 
are soft. Then add the milk and corn. Heat to boiling point. Season with salt 
and pepper. Moisten crackers in cold milk. Serve crackers on top of chowder. 



FISH CHOWDER 
1 pint boiling water 
1 sliced onion 
Salt pork fat, 1 inch by 

3 inches 



1 tablespoon salt 
I teaspoon pepper 
1 quart milk 
8 crackers 



2 cups flaked cod, or 

fresh cod or soaked 

salt cod 
8 potatoes, cut into 

|-inch slices 

Try out fat, add sliced onion and cook to a light brown, without burning. 
Strain fat into saucepan, add potatoes and boiling water and cook 10 minutes. 
Add the flsh and simmer 10 minutes. Add the milk and seasonings. Heat to 
boiling point and serve with crackers, split and previously dipped in cold milk. 



28 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



FISH 

If more fish and less meat were used fn the daily meals, !t would help 
to reduce the cost of living. Fish contains the same food value as meat 
at a much smaller cost, and furnishes a food that not only tastes good, but 
is easily digested. 

Whitefish, haddock, halibut, cod, flounder, smelts, perch, pickerel, 
sunfish and crappies belong to the white-fleshed family. Salmon, shad, 
lake trout, butterfish and herring belong to the red-fleshed family. 

As the white-fleshed flsh is considered more easy of digestion than the 
red-fleshed, it should be selected for invalids, convalescents or those suffering 
from weak digestion. 

Fish should be eaten while fresh and in season. Stale fish Ss poisonous, 
so great care should be used in its selection. Fish contains albumen, and 
as albumen (which is like the white of egg) clots at a low temperature, it 
should be cooked at a temperature below boiling point of water. 

Local fish should be used as much as possible. Find out all the kinds 
of fish that can be obtained in your locality. 

HOW TO SELECT FRESH FISH 

Select a fish that has bright eyes and gills, shiny scales, firm flesh, and 
is free from a disagreeable odor. ^ 

HOW TO CLEAN FISH 

Remove the scales by drawing a knife over the flsh, beginning at the 
tail and working toward the head. 

Wipe the fish inside and outside with a cloth wet in cold, salted water, 
then wipe with a clean dry cloth kept for the purpose. Head and tail may 
or may not be taken off, according to the manner of cooking. 

METHODS OF COOKING FISH 

Broiling, baking and steaming are the best methods for cooking fish. 

Fish suitable for broiling are; Split mackerel, white flsh, cod, shad, 
trout, etc., sliced halibut and salmon, white smelts and small flsh. To broil — 
brush with melted fat, sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper, and cook over a 
flame or clear Are. 

Fish suitable for baking whole are : Whiteflsh, cod, haddock, small salmon, 
shad. Follow directions for baked flsh. 

Fish suitable for boiling are; Salmon, halibut, cod, haddock, trout, 
etc. Cook in piece of cheese-cloth. Add 1 tablespoon vinegar and 1 table- 
spoon salt to each quart of water. 

Fish suitable for frying are the white-fleshed. Cook in deep fat or saut6 
in a little fat in a frying pan. 



FISH 29 



TIME TABLE FOR COOKING FISH 

Baking — thick fish, per pound . 10 to 15 minutes 

Baking — thin fish, per pound ....... 8 to 10 minutes 

Boiling — thick fish, halibut, salmon, per pound . 15 minutes 

Boiling — thin fish, such as flounder, per pound . 8 minutes 

Frying — fillets or steaks 4 to 7 minutes 

Frying — smelts or trout 3 to 5 minutes 

TEST FOR COOKING FISH 

\7hen"the]flsh can be easily separated from the bone, the fish is sufficiently 
cooked. 

FISH— BAKED, WITH STUFFING 

Select a fish weighing from 21 to 4 pounds. Bake with or without 
stuffing. 

STUFFING 
1 cup crumbs (bread or I teaspoon salt Few drops onion juice, 

crackers^ or half | teaspoon celery salt if liked 

and half) | teaspoon pepper | cup water 

i cup melted fat 

Mix ingredients in order given. If a dry filling is desired, the water 
may be omitted. Three tablespoons catsup, chopped parsley, capers, pickles, 
or oysters may be added. Clean and wipe the fish. ' Rub the inside with salt. 
Fill with stuffing and sew together. Cut diagonal gashes IJ inches apart 
on both sides of the fish and place a strip of bacon or salt pork fat in each 
gash. Brush with melted fat, sprinlde with salt and pepper. Dredge with 
flour, tie in the shape of a letter "S" and bake on a baking sheet or strips 
of cotton cloth (so that it may be easily removed from the pan in a dripping 
pan). When the flour is browned, baste the fish once in 10 minutes. Cook 
until the flesh is firm and separates easily from the bone. 

SALMON STEAKS— STUFFED 
Buy slices of salmon §-inch in thickness. Arrange half the number of 
slices in a baking pan, on thin slices or strips of salt pork fat. Cover with a 
well-seasoned, bread-crumb stuffing. Cover with remaining slices of salmon. 
Sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. Surround with left-over boiled potatoes, 
cut into fourths lengthwise. Arrange strips of salt pork fat on top and bake 
in a moderately hot oven about 30 minutes or until done. Garnish with 
lemon and parsley. 

BROILED TROUT OR OTHER FISH 
Clean trout; wipe dry. Cut into suitable pieces for serving. Dip 
pieces in melted fat and broil over a clear fire for about 12 minutes. Other 
fish may be broiled in the same way. 

FISH CROQUETTES 
To 1 cup cold, flaked fish, add i cup or more of thick white sauce. Season 
with salt and pepper (lemon juice and onion if liked). Cool, shape into cutlets, 
roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Fry in deep fat. 



30 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



CODFISH BALLS 

1 cup salt codfish J tablespoon butter | teaspoon pepper 

4 medium-sized potatoes 1 egg 

Wash fish in cold water, and pick into small pieces. Wash, pare and 
cut potatoes in J-inch slices. Cook potatoes and codfish in boiling water 
to cover, until potatoes are soft. Drain off every drop of water, return to 
kettle; mash. Add butter, egg (well-beaten) and pepper. Beat with a fork 
two minutes. Drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat. Fat should be very 
hot. Fry until brown. Remove from fat and drain on paper. Serve with 
egg sauce. 

SCALLOPED FLAKED COD OR OTHER FISH 

1 pound can flaked cod IJ cups mashed potato \ cup buttered crumbs 
11 cups white sauce 

Arrange the fish and sauce in layers in a well-greased baking dish. 
Cover with mashed potatoes and bread crumbs. Bake until heated through- 
out and crumbs are browned on top. Any kind of cooked fish may be flaked 
and prepared in this way. Layers of boiled onion or green peas may be used 
Iri this recipe. 

SCALLOPED SALTED CODFISH AND RICE 

} cup rice IJ cups scalded milk J cup white sauce 

2 cups cold water 1 tablespoon finely- | cup buttered crumbs 
1 cup salt codfish, soaked chopped green pepper ' 

overnight and drained 

Add rice to cold water in a saucepan. Heat to boiling point and boil 

5 minutes. Drain. Cook the drained rice, soaked codfish and milk in a 
double boiler until rice is soft. Finnan haddie or smoked fish can be 
prepared in this way, adding it to the rice when it is almost done. 

SALMON LOAF 

1 cup flaked cooked salmon 1 teaspoon salt | teaspoon lemon Juice 

1 cup stale bread i teaspoon onion juice 2 egg whites, stiffly 

crumbs soaked in 2 egg yolks, beaten beaten 

1 cup scalded milk 

Combine ingredients in order given, folding in the stiffly beaten whites 
last. Drop mixture into a well-greased and crumbed pan and bake in a 
moderately hot oven or steam the mixture. The eggs may be omitted, 
using i cup less milk. Serve with white sauce. 



MEAT 31 



MEAT 

In the average household there is perhaps no other food that calls for 
more thought in selection and preparation than meat. In no other country 
has meat been used so generously as in America. 

With the present high cost of meat, American housewives are buying 
less meat than formerly, and are using what they buy more carefully than ever 
before. 

The tough cuts of meat, usually the cheaper cuts, are located where 
there is motion, such as those obtained from the neck and limbs; while 
the tender cuts are located where there is little motion, such as those along 
the back bone. The meat part from all the cuts from the same animal con- 
tain the same food value, but there is more waste, such as bone and gristle, 
to some cuts, and this should, be considered in buying. 

To reduce the meat bill, make a little meat go a long way by preparing 
meat combination dishes, such as stews, meat loaves, meat pie& stuffed 
roasts, beef a la mode, etc. Make good meat gravies. "Spread "roe It)£^ 
flavor." Only a little meat is needed to give flavor to a whole dish. 

SELECTION OF MEAT 

Meat should be uniform in color, the flesh firm and elastic to the touch. 

The flesh of beef should be of a bright red color and intermingled with 
fat that is yellowish. 

Mutton should be dull red in color, and the fat white. 

Lamb and veal should be lighter in color and flesh less firm than beef. 

Meat should be removed from the paper as soon as it is received from mar- 
ket and should be kept in a cool place. Always wipe meat with a damp cloth. 

Beef ranks first in nutritive value, with mutton a close second. 

HOW TO PREPARE MEAT STEWS 

Stewing is cooking slowly, a long time, in a small quantity of water. 
Cut the meat into rather small pieces; divide it into two portions; add one 
portion to cold water and heat slowly to boiling point. Meanwhile brown 
the other portion in a little fat in a pan. Then add it to the water and meat. 
The whole should be cooked slowly for three hours or until the meat is 
tender. Add vegetables. the last hour of cooking. 

Beef, mutton, lamb or veal may be used, selecting the tough pieces, 
such as the neck, shoulder, lower part of round, aitch bone, etc. Pieces of 
cold cooked meat may be added to the stew. 

The pieces of meat are usually dredged with flour before they are 
browned. This gives color to the stew, a rich flavor, and thickens the gravy. 

Onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips and potatoes are the vegetables 
commonly used in stews. Tomatoes, string beans and green peas are some- 
times used. The vegetables should be cut into }-inch cubes, i-inch slices 
or strips, and added the last hour of cooking. The potatoes, however, sHouEd 
be parboiled 5 minutes, then added to the stew, allowing 20 minutes for 



32 THE METROPOUTAN UFE COOK BOOK 



cooking. The usual seasonings are salt and pepper. Sweet herbs, parsley, 
a bit of bay leaf, a few cloves, celery salt, or catsup may be added for variety. 

Dumplings or Boiled Rice are often served with stew. When cooking 
dumplings, they should be placed so that they will rest on the meat and 
vegetables. iVleat stew may be served on slices of Fried Mush. 

MEAT PIE 
Fill baking dish f full with stew; cover with mashed potato, boiled rice, 
biscuit dough or cereal mush and bake until nicely browned on top. 

NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER 
4 pounds corned beef 6 small carrots or 3 6 medium-sized pota- 
6 small beets large ones toes 

1 small cabbage 2 small French turnips 6 medium-sized onions 

cut in thirds 6 small parsnips 

Wash the meat quickly in cold water. If it is very salt, soak it about 
30 minutes in cold water. Simmer meat in a kettle, containing enough 
boiling water to cover, from three to Ave hours, or until the meat is tender. 
Wash and scrape the vegetables, leave the beets,: carrots, turnips and parsnips 
whole,' or quartered if preferred. Cut the cabbage into quarters. When 
meat is tender, remove from kettle, and, two hours before dinnertime, add 
the carrots, afterward the turnips and the cabbage. Thirty minutes before 
dinnertime, add the parsnips and potatoes and onions. The beets should 
be cooked separately. Reheat the meat with the vegetables. Serve meat 
and vegetables arranged attractively on a large platter. 

HOW TO BROIL MEAT 

Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat,'Over hot coals or over a 
flame (gas flame). 

Cooking with little or no fat in a hot frying pan is called "pan-broiling." 
To make broiled meat juicy, turn often while cooking. 

TO BROIL STEAKS OR CHOPS' 

Wipe meat with a damp cloth and trim off superfluous fat. Rub the wire 
broiler with a little of the fat, place the meat in broiler and broil over a clear 
Are, turning every 10 seconds for the first minute. After the first minute, 
turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides, or cook iK a Httle fat in a 
frying pan, turning over. Season to taste. Fork chops must be very well 
done. ^% 

PAN-BROILED HAMBURGEIT STEAK 

Chop finely one pound lean raw beef; season highly with salt, pepper 
and a few drops of onion juice. Add i cup milk gradually; knead dough 
until spongy and shape into cakes. Heat a frying pan, rub with the fat of 
meat and pffn-broil the steaks. Turn cakes often during the' cooking. 

One cup left-over oatmeal mush may be added to the mixture and is very 
good. Try shaping oatmeal mush into cakes, brush with melted fat; shape 
^^burger steak mixture into cakes, place on top of oatmeal cakes. Bake in 
tft&.oven until_cooked and nicely browned. 



MEAT 33 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BRAISING 

, The rump, top, round, blade, chuck, ribs, cross ribs cuts and flank stutted 
are all good braised. Beef, mutton or veal. 

To braise meat, wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and, if a lean piece of meat is used, lard previous to seasoning. Brov/a 
the meat on all sides in a little fat in a Scotch kettle or roasting pan. Then 
cover bottom of pan with hot water or meat stock. Then cover closely and 
cook slowly in the oven, on top of the range or in a fireless cooker two hours- 
Add vegetables, such as onion, carrot, turnips, cut into strips, balls or slices, 
and continue cooking until meat and vegetables are tender. 

BEEF A LA MODE 
Insert 12 large strips of salt pork fat or piece of suet into a 4-pound 
piece of round beef. Season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour. 
Put a piece of suet in a hot pan, brown the meat on all sides in this. Put 
in kettle with vegetables and water, according to recipe for beef stew. Cover 
closely and cook slowly 4 or 5 hours in oven or top of range. 

POT-ROAST 

■When beef is similarly prepared (without the strips of fat and vegetables) 
and cooked in a smaller amount of water, it is called pot-roast. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup vinegar and 1 cup soaked prunes added 
the last I hourof cooking provides a nice change. 

MEAT EN CASSEROLE 
Cut 2 pounds of meat into suitable pieces for serving. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Brown meat in a little fat in a frying pan. 
Put browned pieces of meat in casserole dish; add 1 carrot cut into cubes, 
1 cupful stewed and strained tomatoes. Cover closely and cook 15 minutes. 
Add J cupful peeled onions and 1 cupful potato balls, and continue cooking 
until meat and vegetables are tender. The casserole should be closely 
covered that the steam may be retained. Serve with boiled rice. 

MEAT ROLL 

Flank steak, or 1 pound 2 or 3 small pieces of 1 cup carrot, cubed 
of thinly cut round suet 2 cups stock or water 

steak 2 onions Bread stuffing 

Beef, mutton or veal may be used. Wipe meat, trim edges, pound on 
both sides, spread with stuffing, roll and tie. Sprinkle the roll with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour, and brown on all sides in hot drippings and lay it 
on the onion and carrot in a pan with the suet on top. Pour the water or 
stock into the pan. Cover tightly and cook slowly in the oven or on top of the 
stove. For round steak, cook slowly, covered, for i hour or more in a 
moderate oven, then uncover and cook an additional i hour. For flank steak, 
cook slowly, covered, for 3 hours or more in a moderate oven, then uncover 
last J hour. Serve with brown gravy made by thickening the liquid in the 
pan. Individual rolls may be^ade. 



34 THE, METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



ROASTING 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Dredge the surface with flour, salt 
and pepper. Put pieces of fat on the meat and in the pan (melted fat may be 
used and rubbed over the surface). Place meat on a rack in the pan. Put 
into a hot oven, l The heat of the oven should be intense at first to sear the 
surface (about 10 minutes), and then the heat should be reduced and water 
added to 'cover bottom of pan. The meat should either be covered closely 
or basted often with equal parts of fat drippings and water. After the last 
basting, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place meat on a hot platter and* 
garnish. 

GRAVY 

Pour fat from pan; allow 2 tablespoons of fat to 3 tablespoons of flour 
for each cupful of gravy. Put the fat into the pan, add the flour and stir 
over a hot fire until well browned. Add the boiling water or stock gradually, 
boil 3 minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, and strain. 

TIME TABLE FOR ROASTING (Per pound) 

Beef, round lOtolZmin. Lamb (well done) 20 min. 

Beef ribs (well done) . . 12 to 15 min. Veal (well done) . 25 min. 

Beef ribs (rare) . . . . 8 to 10 min. Pork (well done) . 30 min. 

Mutton, leg (well done), . 15 min. Chicken .... IS min. 

IVIutton, leg (rare) ... 8 min. Goose . . . . 18 to 20 min. 

Mutton, loin (rare) ... 8 min. Turkey, 8-pound . About 2 hrs. 

Mutton, shoulder (stuffed), 15 min, 

MEAT LOAF 
2 cups ground meat 1 cup bread crumbs 1 beaten egg (may be 

I teaspoon onion juice soaked in i cup omitted) 

I I teaspoons salt milk, or 1 J cups 1 teaspoon finely- 
Few grains pepper oatmeal mush chopped parsley 

Mix the first 4 Ingredients, add the soaked bread crumbs or mush 
gradually, kneading the mixture until spongy, then add the beaten egg, 
and more seasonings if needed and the chopped parsley. Shape into a loaf 
and place on a pan covered with suet. Put suet on top of loaf. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and flour. Bake 40 minutes, basting occasionally with 
melted suet mixed with boiling water. 

CALF'S LIVER AND BACON 
Cut 1 pound of liver into }-inch slices. Cover with boiling water, let 
stand five minutes to draw out the blood. Drain, remove veins and skin. 
Wipe the liver, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook in hot bacon fat until 
brown on both sides, turning occasionally. Make a gravy, using 2 tablespoons 
of the bacon fat and 4 tablespoons of flour. Brown the two in a pan, add 2 
cups of boiling water gradually and stir until smooth, season with salt and 
pepper. Put the browned slices of liver into the gravy and cook slowlyi 
IS minutes. Put liver and gravy on a hot dish, arrange the crisp bacoA' 
around the edge and serve. Liver may be larded and baked in one large piece; ' 



POUIvTRY 35 



PORK CHOPS WITH DRESSING 
6 pork chops 2 tablespoons pork fat, f teaspoon salt 

i, onion, finely chopped chopped J cup hot water 

il'cups bread crumbs J teaspoon pepper 1 beaten egg 

Mix bread crumbs, pork, fat, seasonings, water and egg. Spread on pork 
chops. Put chops in a pan close together; add a little water to cover bottom 
of pan and bake in a moderately hot oven 1 hour, basting occasionally. 

PORK SAUSAGE 

5 pounds lean, raw, 1 -| tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon summer 
fresh pork, or half 1 tablespoon pepper savory 

pork and half beef 2 tablespoons sage j tablespoon thyme 

Force the meat through the food chopper. Mix the meat and spices in a 
large mixing bowl thoroughly with a potato masher, wooden spoon or with 
the hands. Fill sterilized bags, made of cotton cloth 3 inches wide by 8 or 
10 inches long, to within 2 inches of the top. Cook 30 minutes in boiling 
salted water. Cool and store in a cold place. 

CHOP SUEY 
1 quart pork or chicken, 1 onion, chopped 3 tablespoons flour 

cubed 2 cups celery, cut in 3 tablespoons water 

i cup chopped salt pork 1-inch lengths , 1 tablespoon China soy 

fat I tablespoon salt i cup fresh mushrooms 

1 pint water or white stock 2 tablespoons molasses 

Cook the meat in the fat until a golden brown. Add the water, onion, 
celery, salt and molasses. Simmer 1 hour. Mix the flour and water and 
add to the mixture until thickened. Then add the molasses, China soy and 
mushrooms. Cook 10 minutes longer and serve. 

BAKED RABBIT 
1 rabbit 4 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper 

Strips of salt pork fat ' 1 cup milk 

Skin rabbit. Remove' head and lower part of legs. Remove insides, 
etc. Wash thoroughly and soak 1 hour in acidulated water. Wipe dry. 
Lard with salt pork strips, dredge with flour. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Arrange on strips of salt pork fat and bake in oven about 2 hours, basting 
generously with milk occasionally. Currant jelly may be added to the gravy. 



POULTRY 

j ROAST CHICKEN 

Select a chicken with firm flesh, yellow skin and legs. 

Dress, clean, stuff and tie wings and legs close to body of chicken. 

Place on its back on a rack in a dripping pan (or on thin slices of salt 

pork fat or chicken fat in a pan a trifle larger than the chicken). Rub the 

entire surface with salt and spread legs and breast with 3 tablespoons melted 

chjcken fat or other fat and 3 tablespoons flour. Place in a hot oven and 



36 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



when flour is well browned, reduce the heat and baste every 10 miniite§,jf 
not roasted in a self-basting pan. ; it 

For basting, take 4 tablespoons of the fat^ the pan and mix with 1 cup 
Doiling water. 

A 4-pound chicken requires about IJ hours. 

For the stuffing, use melted chicken fat or other fat. 

STUFFING (1) "■■ 

1 cup cracker or bread Sage, if liked | cup milk, scalded 

crumbs i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chopped 

J cup melted fat Few grains pepper parsley 

STUFFING (2)— CHESTNUT 

2 cups French chestnuts 1 cup cracker crumbs Few grains pepper 
! cup melted fat f teaspoon salt | cup cream 

Blanch and shell chestnuts. Cook in boiling salted water until soft. 
Drain and mash. Add half the fat, salt, pepper and cream. Melt remaining 
fat, mix with cracker crumbs, then combine mixtures. 

STUFFING (3) 

2 cups freshly-grated i teaspoon pepper 1 well-beaten egg 

bread crumbs Sage, if liked § cup scalded milk 

1 teaspoon salt | cup melted fat 

Combine ingredients in order given. 

TO MAKE GRAVY 
Skim off fat in roasting pan. To each 2 tablespoons fat, add 3 tablespoons 
flour. Brown the two and add the drippings and enough hot water and cream 
(half and half) to make it of the right thickness. 

TO ROAST TURKEY 
Follow directions for roasting chicken. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

3 pounds chicken | bay leaf I cup chopped salt pork 

1 onion 1 teaspoon salt fat or other fat 

2 cloves I cup flour 

Singe, draw and disjoint a 3-pound chicken. Wash and rinse carefully. 
Put into a saucepan with 1 quart of water, 1 sliced onion with 2 cloves pressed 
into it,, bay leaf and salt. Simmer slowly until tender. Remove chicken 
and brown the pieces, dredge generously with the flour, salt, and pepper in 
the salt pork fat or other fat in a frying pan. When the pieces of chicken are 
nicely browned on both sides, add the water or stock in which the chicken 
has been cooked. If the gravy is not thick enough, add flour thickening to 
it. Season to taste. Arrange the browned chicken on a platter. Pour the 
gravy over it. Surround with a border of boiled rice. 

CHICKEN STEW 
Dress, clean and cut up a fowl, and put it into a stew pan. Cover with 
boiling water and cook gently until tender. After the first hour of cooking, 



POULTRY 37 



add 2 teaspoons salt, J teaspoon pepper, bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, and 
a slice of onion, if liked. Cook until tender. Remove chicken. Thicken 
stock with I cup flour mixed with cold water. Place stewed chicken and 
thicken stock in the serving dish. 

CHICKEN PIE 
'*^^ Put stewed chicken in a baking dish. Cover with short-cake or baking- 
powder biscuit dough, and bake until done. 

BAKED CHICKEN 
Dip raw chicken, cut into suitable pieces for serving, into melted fat 
and then into flour mixed with salt and pepper. Brown the pieces of chicken 
in a little fat in a pan. Add enough water to cover the bottom of pan. Cover 
and bake about 1^ hours. Baste occasionally. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

2 cups chopped chicken. Few grains cayenne Few drops onion juice 

cooked 1 cup thick sauce Yolk 1 egg 

§ teaspoon salt I teaspoon pepper 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool, shape into balls, cylinders or 
any desired shape. Dip in egg, crumbs and egg again. Fry in deep fat. 

ROAST GOOSE WITH STUFFING 
Select a goose of suitable size for the number to be served. One pound 
to a person is usually allowed. Dress and clean goose' by scrubbing it inside 
and outside with soda water. Rinse in boiling water and dry; stuff and sew 
up or skewer. Rub with flour, salt and pepper, mixed. Place breast down 
in a roasting pan. Baste with the drippings; after the first hour, add 1 cupful 
water. Turn breast one side down in a roasting pan. For an 8-pound 
goose, allow 4 hours in a slow oven. Skim off most of the fat in the pan and 
make gravy by adding I cup white sauce, stirring until well mixed and then 
adding hot water gradually to make of right consistency. 

, PRUNE AND APPLE STUFFING 

3 cups bread crumbs 1 cup apples, pared, cut ^ cup soaked, stewed 
I cup melted fat in eighths, and stewed and stoned prunes 

1 teaspoon salt in a little sugar syrup J cup nut meats, broken 

Few grains pepper into pieces, if liked 

MASHED POTATO STUFFING 

2 cups mashed potatoes, J cup chopped, par- I teaspoon sage 
highly seasoned with boiled onions 2 egg yolks •* 
salt and pepper 2 tablespoons melted fat. 

Mix ingredients in order given. 

TO GARNISH GOOSE 
,i . If potato or bread stuffing is used, arrange red steamed apples around 
the goose. Tosteam the apples, place with the skins on in a perforated dish over 
boiling water. Steam until cooked. Remove and chill. Carefully remove skins, 
being careful to leave the red pulp nearest theskin on the apple. Scrape skins so 
as to remove all pulp and return to apples. They should be a beautiful red. 



38 THE METROPOUTAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



FAT 

Save every scrap of fat that comes with the meat and render it. 

TO RENDER FAT TO USE FOR COOKING 

Fat connected with tissue must be "tried out." The fat should be finely 
chopped and heated over water and strained. Done in this way there is no 
danger of burning and a white tat is obtained. If the fat has a strong odorjj. 
soaking it in salted water before rendering and adding a pinch of soda during 
rendering will remove it. 

CLARIFYING FAT 

To lessen characteristic flavors that are disliked by many, add to the 
rendered fat at least an equal amount of water and boil the mixture for an • 
hour. Allow the fat to harden in a cake on top, pour off the water and heat 
the fat gently to drive off the water. This increases its keeping qualities. 
If the flavor is very strong, heating the fat with whole or skimmed milk (1 cup 
to 2 pounds of fat) will prove a more effectual method than the addition of 
water. Strain through the cloth to remove all bits of foreign matter. 

CRACKLINGS 
The bits of tissue left after rendering the fat may be used for shortening 
such flour mixtures as corncake and gingerbread — | cup being equal to about 
2 tablespoons of butter. If chopped sweet apple is added to corncake and 
a few raisins to gingerbread, the "chewy" bits of tissue are not noticed. 

SOFTENIN-G HARD FATS 
To make hard fats softer for such uses as cake making, they may be 
mixed with softer fats — such as, 2 parts mutton or beef fat with 1 part lard 
or 3 parts mutton or beef fat with 1 part cottonseed oil. Melt the fats 
together and stir while melting. Stir occasionally. • 

SAVORY FAT . 
Strongly flavored fats, such as bacon, ham, or mutton, should be used. 
Heat the fat over a slow fire for about an hour with the desired seasoning — 
the amount and kind depending upon individual taste. Some of the seasonings 
that may be used are onion, sour apple, whole thyme, marjoram, savory and 
bayleaf . Savory fat may be used for warming up potato, seasoning vegetables, 
bro wnfhg fish, seasoning left-over meats, and in many other ways. 



USES OF CLARIFIED FATS 

In substituting other fats for butter as shortening, a slightly smaller 
amount may be used and salt must be added. If the somewhat pronounced 
flavors of such fats as mu'ton or beef are objectionable, a little more flavoring-' 
— especially chocolate and spices — may be added. 

Chicken or bacon fat is good for spreading sandwiches and in making 
pastry. A perfectly satisfactory fat for deep fat frying may consist of a mixture 
of any clarified, fats, such as beef, mutton, lard and bacon, provided there is 
not an overabundance of the harder fats. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 39 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



EGGS 
Eggs are cheaper than meat. A fresh egg has a tMck, rough shell. 
Nine medium-sized eggs, as a lute, weigh a pound. Eggs and egg dishes 
should be cooked at a low temperature. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING EGGS 

-Have ready a saucepan containing boiling water. A general rule fs 
to allow 1 pint of water to 2 eggs, and an extra cupful for each additional 
egg. Place the eggs in the water with a spoon and cover the saucepan. 
For hard-cooked eggs, let them stand on the back of the range or over a low 
flame from 40 to 45 minutes. For soft-cooked eggs, place the eggs in a 
saucepan containing boiEng water. Let them star«i on back of range or 
over a low flame from 8 to 10 minutes. 

POACHE]> EGGS 
Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each egg, and keep it hot. Have 
ready a shanow greased pan containing boiling, salted water to cover the 
eggs. Break each egg separately into a saucer and slip it gently into the 
water, being careful that water does not reach the boiling point. (If eggs 
are slipped into mufSn rings in the water, the shape will be better.) Cook 
until the white is firm and a film forms over the top of the yolk. Remove 
the eggs from the water with a skimmer or griddle-cake turner. Drain, 
trim off rough edges and place each egg on a slice of toast. 

POACHED EGGS AND CREAMED FISH 
Poached eggs may be served on creamed fish or vegetables on toast. 

BAKED EGGS 

Toast circular pieces of bread from which a little of the centers have 
been removed. Place pieces on a buttered dish. Break an egg and drop 
contents in the center of each. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot with 
butter, pour on a little milk or cream and bake in a moderate oven until eggs 
are cooked. 

BAKED EGGS "WITH CHEESE 

Follow directions for baked eggs, sprinkling slices of toast with cheese 
before eggs are dropped onto them, or slip eggs into buttered egg shirrers. 
Cover with white sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese and buttered crumbs. 
Bake until eggs are set. 

BAKED EGGS IN HAM CASES 
To 1 measure of crumbs add f measure scalded mOk and i measure of 
finely-chopped, cooked ham. Line greased custard cups with mixture. 



40 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 

Break eggs into the centers and bake until set. Serve -witii white sauce. 

Mashed potato may be used instead of the brea^ and milk mixture. Cheese 

may be used instead of ham. 

Note: Baked eggs may be covered with buttered bread crumbs. Eggs maybe baked in 
tomato shells, 

CODDLED EGGS 
Allow I cup milk for each slightly beaten egg. Cook mixture in a double 
boiler until thickened. Season with salt and pepper and serve on buttered 
toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

2 tablespoons tat § cup milk Few grains pepper 

5 eggs 1 J teaspoons salt 

Beat eggs slightly; add salt, pepper and milk. Melt the fat in a frying 
pan, pour in the egg mixture and cook slowly, continually scraping from bottom 
of pan. When creamy, turn into a hot dish and serve at once. Serve with 
ham or bacon, etc. 

SCALLOPED EGGS AND HAM 

4 hard-cooked eggs 1| cups buttered hard 1 pint white sauce 

f cup or 1 cup cold crumbs 

chopped ham or meat 

Chop the eggs, and follow the rule, alternating the eggs and meat, or 
add chopped eggs and meat to the sauce. 

BREAD OMELET 
4 egg yolks J teaspoon salt 4 egg whites, beaten 

1 cup bread crumbs J teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons fat 

1 cup milk 

Soak bread crumbs in milk, add beaten egg yolks and seasonings. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites. Melt fat in omelet pan. Turn mixture into pan 
and cook slowly over a fire until delicately browned underneath and firm 
around the edges. Place on top grate in oven and bake until firm on top. 
Fold and serve with white sauce. 

OYSTER OMELET 
Fold in oysters, cut in halves, to omelet mixture, or add oysters to cream 
sauce. Follow directions given in plain omelet recipe. 

MEAT AND VEGETABLE OMELET 
Cook omelet. Add cooked vegetables or meat to the white sauce, or 
fold them into the omelet mixture. 

CHEESE DISHES 
One pound of cheese contains as much food value as 2 pounds of meat. 
Cheese may be added to white sauce and served with boiled rice or boiled vege- 
tables or plain on toast. Cheese may be combined with left-over cereal mush, 
and baked as a souffle or shaped into cakes and baked in the oven or browned 
in a little fat in a pan. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 41 



BAKED MACARONI OR RICE AND CHEESE 
Sprinkle hot boiled macaroni or rice with grated cheese or cheese cut 
into small pieces. Arrange bread crumbs, macaroni and cheese; or rice and 
cheese, and white sauce, in layers in a well-greased baking dish. Cover 
with bread crumbs and bake in oven until nicely browned. 
Tomato sauce may be used in place of the white sauce. 
Cornmeal mush may be arranged in layers with cheese and baked. 
Boiled corn maybe mixed with chopped green pepper and white sauce and 
arranged in layers with cheese and baked. 

CHEESE FONDU 
1 cup scalded milk - 1 tablespoon fat 3 eggs 

1 cup stale bread crumbs 5 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon catsup 

J cup cheese, cut into small pieces 

Mix the first 6 ingredients; add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, fold in 
the stiffly-beaten whites and bake in a well-greased baking dish tor 20 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

CHEESE AND CORN SOUFFLE 
Follow recipe for Cheese Fondu, adding 1 cup boiled corn, an additional 
cup millf, i cup cheese and 2 tablespoons chopped green pepper to the first 
6 ingredients. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND NUT LOAF 
1 cup cottage cheese 2 tablespoons catsup 1 cup stale bread crumbs 

1 cup coarsely-ground and hot tomato 1 tablespoon vegetable 

nut meats juice to moisten oil 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons finely 1 teaspoon salt 

chopped onion i teaspoon pepper 

JWix the ingredients thoroughly, add more seasonings if neces.sary, 
put mixture into a well-greased baking dish and bake in a moderately hot 
oven until nicely browned. 

BEANS, PEAS AND LENTILS 

There are any number of different kinds of beans on the market, such 
as the marrow, pea, kidney, black turtle, lima and yellow-eyed beans; the 
Manchurian beans, of which there are brown and red ones; the Chilian, 
of which there are brown, red and gray ones. The soy bean is richer in fat 
and flesh-building material than any of the other beans. Beans as a whole 
contain about the same food value, and the housewife who wishes to get the 
most food value for the money will do well in selecting the kind that sells 
at the lowest cost, provided they are in good condition. 

Recipes given for one kind of beans may be used for any one of the 
others with just as good results. 

CHILI CON CARNE 

1 pint dried lima beans i cup suet, forced through | teaspoon pepper 

or kidney beans food chopper | teaspoon mustard 

soaked overnight 1 red pepper, cut in strips 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 cups beef, chopped | onion, sliced Tomatoes to cover 
1 teaspoon salt 



42 THE METROPOI.ITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



Arrange ingredients in layers in a bean pot. Cover with water and bake 
slowly 3 or 4 hours. 

RED BEANS 

Red beans may be cooked as lima beans. They may be served in white 
sauce, tomato or meat-stock sauce. 

RED BEANS, SPANISH STYLE 
I cup cooked red beans 2 tablespoons suet or oil 1 teaspoon salt 
J cup cooked carrot 1 sliced onion Few grains pepper 

1 cup cooked beef, cubed | tablespoon sugar 2 cups boiling water 

1 chili, finely chopped 

Brown the- onion and meat in the suet or oil; add all the ingredients, 
and cook slowly until water is nearly evaporated. Serve with boiled rice 
or boiled chestnuts. 

STEWED RED BEANS WITH BACON 
Wash and soak red beans in cold water from 12 to 48 hours. To 1 cup 
of beans use i pound of bacon. Put bacon into a saucepan — add 1 carrot 
and 1 onion cubed and .the soaked beans; cover with cold water, bring to 
boiling point and sinmier one hour, or until beans are tender (i teaspoon soda 
may be added just as they are put over the fire). Drain and remove skin 
from beans. Taste and season. Serve hot. 

BAKED BEANS 
1 quart beans 1 teaspoon mustard 1 teaspoon salt 

J pound salt fat pork or vegetable oil | cup molasses 

Pick over and wash beans; cover with cold water and soak overnight. 
In the morning, drain, cover with fresh water and cook slowly below boiling 
point until soft, then drain. Put Jrinch slices of salt pork fat in the bottom 
of an earthern bean pot or covered crock. Put beans in pot and bury the 
remaining pork (which should be gashed in several places) in the beans. 
JVlix the salt, mustard and molasses in a cup; fill the cup with boiling water 
and pour the mixture over the beans. Add enough more boiling water to 
cover beans. Cover bean pot, put in oven, and bake in a moderate oven 8 
hours. If baked a long time, they become dark and have a rich flavor. One 
cup oil may be used instead of the pork. 



VEGETABI.es 43 



VEGETABLES 

Vegetables should be used generously in our daily meals. They are 
chiefly valuable for the pure water and mineral matter they contain, which 
act as a tonic in our bodies. They contain cellulose or wood fiber, which 
stimulates the digestive organs to carry on their work. The cellulose stimu- 
lates the intestines so that their contents are kept constantly moving. Some 
vegetables contain starch, sugar and other substances. 

Peas, beans and lentils will take the place of meat. Spinach is rich 
in iron, etc. It is well to eat many different kinds of vegetables in order to 
supply the body with the different kinds of mineral matter and acids they con- 
tain. 

BUYING VEGETABLES 

In buying vegetables, choose those that are in season and plentiful. 

Potatoes. — Never buy sprouted potatoes. To test potatoes, cut one 
in halves, and if they are juicy enough to stick together the potato is good. 

Cabbage. — Select those that are hard and heavy, with crisp, white leaves. 

Winter Squash. — Select those that are medium-sized with no soft spots. 

Summer Squash. — Select those that are light yellow in color, with the 
shell so tender that it can be broken with the finger nail. 

Summer Carrots. — See that the leaves are green and fresh. 

Corn. — See that the silk is brown and that the ear is well filled with good 
kernels that are full of sweet milky juice. 

Peas. — Pods should be green and brittle; the peas green and not too large. 

String Beans. — Break a pod. It should be brittle. 

Lima Beans. — Select those with green, juicy pods. 

Spinach. — Choose that with leaves fresh and dirty. 

GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES 

Wash thoroughly. Pare, peel or scrape, if skins must be removed. 
Skins should be left on to keep in all the food value possible. Soak in cold 
water until ready to cook. Cook in freshly boiUng salted water until tender. 
Drain off the water, shake over the fire, serve hot with seasoning, using 2 
tablespoons fat, j teaspoon salt, and a few grains pepper to 1 cup cooked 
vegetables, or serve with white sauce. (See page 8.) 

Note. — Allow 1 teaspoon salt to I quart of water. Use enough boiling water to cover 
vegetables. Salt naay be added when vegetables are put in, except in the case of delicate green 
vegetables, as peas, spinach, etc., when it should not be added until the vegetables are nearly 
done. To preserve the color of green vegetables, cook uncovered. Cabbage, onions and 
turnips should be cooled uncovered in a large quantity of water. By changing the water 
once or twice during the cooking, much of the strong odor and flavor may be lost. If dried 
bread be tied in a cheesecloth and placed on top of vegetable during cooking, it absorbs some 
of the odor. Water in which vegetables have been cooked is called vegetable stock and should 
never be thrown away but used in soups and sauces. 

Winter vegetables should be kept in a cool, dark, dry place. Fresh 
vegetables may be washed and kept on ice in a clean piece of cloth. 



44 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



TIME TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES IN WATER 

Asparagus 20 to 40 minutes Lima beans 1 hour or mojfg^ 

Beets (young) 45 minutes Onions 46 to 60 mini^Jqs 

Beets (old) 3 to 4 liours Parsnips 30 to 45 minutes 

Carrots 25 to 30 minutes Potatoes 25 to 30 minSrlk 

Cabbage 15 minutes Rice 20 to 45 minutes 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 minutes Spinach 30 to 45 minutes 

Celery 20 to 30 minutes String beans 1 to 3 hours 

Green peas 30 to 45 minutes Turnips 45 minutes 

Green corn 12 to 20 minutes Tomatoes 1 to 3 hours 7, 

HOW TO PREPARE DIFFERENT KINDS OF VEGETABLES 

Carrots. — Boil in slcins, peel, slice, cube or cut lengthwise. Serve wJfli 
seasonings, in white sauce or in thickened meat stock; or mash to a pulp, 
mix with egg and cream and bake"in greased cups. 

Beets.— 'Eoil in sldns, peel, cut in slices, cube or cut as desired, serve 
plain with seasonings or in white sauce or piclde in diluted vinegar, to which 
a few cioves, a slice of onion and a little sugar have been added. Cubed boiled 
beets may be added to corn beef hash mixture. 

Parsnips. — Boil in skins, peel, cut as desired, serve hot in seasoned 
butter or white sauce, or brown in fat, or mash to a pulp, add an egg, teaspoon 
salt, tablespoon sugar and a tew grains pepper to each cup; shape into cro- 
quettes, dip in crumbs, ecg and crumbs again, and fry in deep fat; or bake 
mixture in greased molds; or arrange slices or cubes of boiled parsnips, 
white sauce, and crumbs in layers in a well-greased baking dish and serve 
as scalloped par-snips. 

Turnips.-^— Boil in skins, peel, serve plain with seasonings or in white 
sauce. Mix with carrots or prepare as parsnip croquettes. 

Butabago. — Vash and pare, slice, boil and mash, season with fat, salt 
and pepper and sugar, or scoop out pared and boiled rutabagos; CIl with a 
mixture of chopped meat, chopped green pepper, onion, parsley, salt, bread 
crumbs and moisten with white sauce. Brush outside of rutabagos with 
melted fat, place in a greased pan and bake. 

Sweet Potatoes. — Poil in skins, peel boiled sweet potatoes, slice and 
brown in fat; or put in baking pan, cover with syrup, to which a Uttle salt and fat 
have been added and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Serve as 
Glaced Sweet Potatoes. Mash boiled sweet potatoes, serve as Mashed 
Sweet Potatoes, or add 1 egg, 2 tablespoons sugar, to each 2 cups and shape 
into croquettes, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs again, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve as Sweet Potato Croquettes. Bake in skins, and serve as Baked Sweet 
Potatoes. '' 

Potatoes. — Boil with or without skins, peel and serve plain or mashed; 
or prepare as sweet potato croquettes, omitting the sugar. Cut boiled potatoes 
in slices or cubes and reheat in white sauce and serve as Creamed Potatoes, 
using 11 cups sauce to 2 cups potatoes; or, cut boiled or raw potatoes in slices 
and arrange in layers with a little onion and white sauce, and bake until 
potatoes are doHe; or browned on top and serve as Scalloped Potatoes. 
Hash cold boiled potatoes, and to 4 cups add § teaspoon salt, few gfdiiis 



VEGETABLES 45 



pepper, few drops onion juice, 4 tablespoons millt and mix. Melt 4 table- 
spoons dripping in frying pan; when melted and browned, pack in potatoes, 
cSok slowly until nicely browned. Fold and serve as Hashed Browned 
Potatoes. Bake raw potatoes, serve as Baked, or scoop out, mash and cream, 
and serve as Baked Stuffed Potatoes. 

Onions. — Skin and boil. Serve plain with seasonings or in white sauce, 
or bake whole or stuffed. Cut raw onions in slices, dip in flour and fry in a 
little fat or in deep fat. 

Celery. — Serve raw, boil or fry. Serve boiled celery in white sauce 
or scallop with rice and white sauce. 

Asparagus. — Boil. Use tougher parts of stalks for soups. Tender, 
served plain or in white sauce. Serve boiled asparagus on scrambled eggs 
on toast or on fried mush. 

Spinach. — Boil. Serve plain, seasoned, or mixed with white sauce. 

Cabbage. — Serve raw or boil. Serve plain, seasoned or in white sauce 
alone or with grated cheese, or scalloped with cheese and white sauce. Boil 
with pork, or boil cabbage with 2 tablespoons fat, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 
1 onion sliced, 1 teaspoon salt, i teaspoon pepper, and 2 tablespoons sugar, 
1 hour. Stuff cabbage leaves with boiled rice or chopped meat mixture, roll 
and tie and boil. Serve on toast as Cabbage Rolls. 

Tomatoes. — Dip in hot water, peel, slice, serve raw; or cook cut into 
sections with 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, few grains pepper and i 
cup bread crumbs-*to 6 tomatoes; i onion, cut in pieces, added, gives a 
pleasing flavor; serve as Stewed Tomatoes. Com and green pepper may 
be added to make Mexican Style Tomatoes. Arrange sliced or canned 
tomatoes, seasoned in layers with bread crumbs or boiled rice or boiled 
macaroni or spaghetti, in a well-greased baking pan, and bake until nicely 
browned on top; serve as Scalloped Tomatoes. Stuff raw tomatoes from 
which slices have been cut off from the tops and pulp removed ; fill with 
boiled rice, bread crumbs, seasoned, and mixed with finely-chopped meat, 
and bake; serve as Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Egg Plant. — Pare and cut, soak overnight in cold salted water, drain. 
Soak in cold water f hour, drain_ again, dry, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip in crumbs, eggs and crumbs again. Fry in deep fat and serve as Fried 
Egg Plant. 

Squash. — ^Wash summer squash, cut in pieces, remove seeds. Steam 
20 minutes. Turn into a cheese-cloth bag, squeeze out water. Mash, season 
and serve. Cut winter squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy part, 
steam or bake. Mash, season and refill shells and serve as Baked Squash. 

Com. — Remove husk and silky threads, leave a couple of layers of husk 
on, and plunge cobs into boiling water; boil 10 minutes; serve as Boiled Corn. 
■Remove corn from cob, heat with 2 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon sugar,, 
teaspoon salt, a few grains of pepper, J cup white sauce to If cups corn and 
serve as Stewed Corn. Arrange corn, white sauce mixed with finely-chopped 
green pepper and bread crumbs in layers in a well-greased baking disli and 
bake; serve as Scalloped Corn. Mix 1 cup corn with 1 well-beaten egg, 
i cup flour, salt and pepper to taste, and shake to imitate oysters. Brown 
.pn both sides on a well-greased griddle and serve as Corn Oysters. 



46 THK METROPOLITAN LIFE ColbK BOOK 



SALADS 

Simple salads consist of fresh vegetables which require no cooldng,' 
such as the salad greens, which include leaf lettuce, head lettuce, romaine, 
lettuce, endive, chickory, escarole, sorrel and watercress, and vegetables such 
as onions, cabbage, celery, bucumber and tomatoes. Any of these may be 
served with an oil dressing or a boiled dressing. ^ 

HOW TO PREPARE RAW VEGETABLES FOR SALADS 
Separate leaves or stalks into their natural divisions. Examine them 
carefully, removing inferior portions, insects, etc., that may be found on the 
vegetables. Wash thoroughly in several waters. Running wafer is prefer- 
able. Salted water aids in removing insects. Drain off the water and dry 
with cheese-cloth. Greens may be kept in a paper bag in the refrigerator 
until serving time. Coarser portions may be used for soups or sauces, 
while the tender portions may be served raw. Great care should be exercised 
in the selection and preparation of food which is not subjected to heat before 
serving, such as salad greens. Salad plants, carelessly cultivated or handled, 
may carry dangerous bacteria, and therefore should be carefully cleaned. 

SALAD DRESSINGS ^^ 

FRENCH DRESSING W' 

i teaspoon salt J teaspoon paprika 4 tablespoons oil 

J teaspoon pepper 1 to 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Mix ingredients in order given, stirring vigorously; 2 tablespoons Chili 
sauce may be added. 

FRENCH THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 
1 tablespoon orange juice 2 tablespoons finely- 2 tablespoons finely- 
1 tablespoon lemon juice chopped green pepper chopped pimentoes 

1 teaspoon onion juice 

Add the above ingredients to French dressing. 

FRENCH CHIFFONADE DRESSING 
2 tablespoons Chili i cup finely-chopped { cup finely-chopped 
sauce onions beets 

Add the above ingredients to French dressing. 

RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING 

1 hard-cooked egg, finely chopped 1 tablespoon finely- 1 tablespoon cooked 

2 tablespoons finely chopped chopped onion chopped carrot 

cooked beets 
Add the above ingredients to French dressing. 

THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING 

2 cup olive oil { teaspoon mustard i teaspoon paprika 
Juice 4 lemon 8 olives, sliced 1 teaspoon Worces- 
J nice J orange 8 cooked chestnuts, sliced tershire sauce 

1 teaspoon grated onion J teaspoon salt ^ cup mayonnaise 

3 teaspns. parsley, chopped fine 



SALADS 47 



Put the ingredients for tlie dressing into a fruit Jar, adjust I or 2 rubbers 
and the cover. Shake until the mixture is smooth and thickened a little. 
This is sufficient for 12 portions. Pour over lettuce, washed and dried, or 
serve the lettuce and dressing separately. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 
I teaspoon salt Yolk 1 egg 1 tablespoon lemon Juice 

I teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar ' j to 1 cup oil 

I teaspoon paprika 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolk. When well mixed, add i teaspoon vine- 
gar. Add oil gradually, at first drop by drop, stirring constantly. When very 
thick, add a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice and continue to beat, adding oil 
and vinegar alternately, until the mixture is smoothly blended. The dressing 
should.be thick enough to hold its shape. A Dover egg beater is considered 
time and labor-saving when used in beating the ingredients. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 
1 teaspoon salt Few grains cayenne Yolks, 2 eggs or 1 egg 

1 teaspoon mustard 2 tablespoons butter or oil J cup scalded milk 

2 teaspoons sugar 2| tablespoons flour J cup hot vinegar 

Mix the salt, mustard, 2 tablespoons oil, sugar and cayenne. Add the 
yolks and mix thoroughly. Stir flour. with 1 tablespoon cold water until 
smooth. Add a litde of the scalded milk, stir, pour it into the scalded milk. 
Cook in a double boiler, continue stirring until thickened. Pour it into the 
yolk mixture, return to double boiler, add the hot vinegar, stirring con- 
stantly until the mixture thickens. Cool before using. If cooked too long, 
it will curdle. 

COLD SLAW DRESSING 
1 teaspoon mustard 1 teaspoon sugar Yolk 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt Few grains pepper J cup hot vinegar 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon melted butter or oil J cup whipped cream 

Mix the first 8 ingredients in order given. Cook in double boiler untH 
thickened. Strain and cool. Fold in the whipped cream. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

3 egg yolks i cup vinegar 1 cup whipped cream 
f cup sugar i teaspoon salt 

Mix the egg yolks, sugar, salt and vinegar. Cook in a double boiler 
until thickened, stirring all the time. Remove from fire; when cool, add the 
whipped cream. 

Prepared mustard may be added to this dressing, using'less or no sugar; 
it is then suitable for meat or vegetable combinations. 

SALADS %,. 
COLD SLAW 
Finely shred cabbage, soak 1 hour in cold water and drain. Mix shredded 
cabbage with cold slaw dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. Finely-chopped! 
green pepper, onion and pimento may be added. 



48 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



MACEDOINE SALAD 

1 cup cooked carrot strips 2 tablespoons finely- Shredded lettuce 
1 cup cooked potato cubes chopped parsley French dressing . 

1 cup cooked string beans 

Arrange shredded lettuce on salad plates. Mix vegetables with French 
dressing. Put a spoonful on each plate. Serve. 

TOMATO SALAD 
8 medium-sized tomatoes 1 cup cooked chicken 1 cup mayonnaise dress- 

1 cup celery or cucumber cut in cubes ing 

cut in cubes 
Scald and peel tomatoes; slice off their tops. Scrape out the seeds and 
a little of the pulp, and fill cavities with the celery, cucumbers and chicken, 
mixed with mayonnaise dressing. 

JELLIED VEGETABLE SALAD 

2 tablespoons granu- Juice 1 lemon -| cup celery, finely cut 

lated gelatin 2 cups boiling water J green pepper, finely 

5 cup cold water | cup sugar chopped 

^ cup vinegar 1 cup shredded cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

'■ I cup pimento 

Soak the gelatin in cold water; add the boiling water and place dish 
over hot water. Let stand until gelatin is dissolved. Remove and add the 
vinegar, lemon juice, sugar and salt. Cool, and when it begins to jell, add 
the chopped vegetables. Pour into molds, chill. Serve on lettuce leaves 
with salad dressing. Any desired mixture of vegetables may be used. 

FRUIT SALAD 

2 oranges i pound malaga grapes 12 walnuts 

3 bananas 4 sUces pineapple, cubed 

Mix fruit and serve salad dressing on top, or add fruit salad dressing to 
moisten. Mix with whipped cream or fruit salad dressing or salad-dressing 
only. May be served in orange cups. 

WALDORF SALAD 
1 cup cubed apple I cup nut meats Salad dressing to moisten 

1 cup celery 

Cut slice from tops of green or red apples; scoop out the inside pulp, 
leaving just enough to hold the skin in place. Fill the shells with the salad 
mixture and serve on lettuce leaves. A little salad dressing may be put on 
top of each. 

JELLIED FRUIT SALADS 

Fill molds with a mixture of 

Equal measures of marshmallow cut in pieces and pineapple cut in cubes, or 

Equal measures of pineapple, oranges and bananas, cut in small pieces, or 

Green grapes skinned and seeded, or 

Orange sections, grapefruit sections, or 

Strawberries, pineapple, cubed, and marshmallows, cut in small pieces, 
and blanched almonds, or 



SALADS 49 



Any other fruit alone or in desirable combinations. 
Cover with lemon jelly mixture and let stand in a cold place until jellied. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with a salad dressing. May be served as a dessert. 

LEMON JELLY 

2 tablespoons granu- 2 to 2J cups boiling water | cup lemon juice 

lated gelatin 1 cup sugar Rind of 1 lemon 

I cup cold water 

Soak gelatin 20 minutes in cold water, then dissolve in boiling water. 
Add sugar, lemon juice and rind, strain into a mold and chill. 

MACARONI SALAD 

I cup boiled macaroni, | cup boiled ham, cut I cup sweet pickles, cut 

cut into |-inch pieces into J-inch cubes into small pieces 

Mix and moisten with boiled salad dressing, using only I cup vinegar 
and i teaspoon mustard in the dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves in tomato 
cups, or plain, garnished with parsley, etc. 

MEAT SALAD (CHICKEN OR VEAL) 

Remove bones and gristle, fat and skin, from cold, cooked meat. Cut 
meat into J-inch cubes and mix it with an equal amount of celery which has 
been scraped, chilled and cut in small pieces. Moisten with French dressing. 
Add mayonnaise dressing or boiled dressing to taste. Arrange on lettuce 
leaves; garnish with curled celery. 

Flaked fish, such as salmon, tuna, etc., may be mixed and used in the same 
way. 

HERRING SALAD 
1 cup cold cooked carrots, 1 cup cold cooked potatoes, I cup cold cooked peas 

cubed cubed 1 cup flnely-cut herring, 

previously soaked 

Marinate with French dressing. Arrange mixture in a mound; make 4 
sections. Cover 2 sections with finely-chopped whites of hard-cooked eggs, 
and the other 2 with the hard-cooked yolks forced through a potato ricer or 
strainer. Garnish with parsley. 

SANDWICHES WHICH MAY BE SERVED WITH SALAD 
Chopped, hard-cooked eggs moistened with salad dressing. 
Chopped meat moistened with salad dressing. 
Chopped meat and chopped pickles moistened with salad dressing. 
Chopped nuts and dates moistened with salad dressing. 
Chopped figs moistened with salad dressing. 
Chopped olives and celery moistened with salad dressing. 
Chopped ripe olives and walnuts moistened with salad dressing. 
Chopped cheese and pimento moistened with salad dressing. 
Peanut butter. 
Sliced ham and mustard. 
Sliced beef and dill pickle. 

Sliced chicken and tomato moistened with salad dressing. 
Cubed cucumbers and radishes moistened with salad dressing. 



50 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



DESSERTS 

Milk and egg desserts are rich in food value. Milk and eggs supply 
practically all the needs of the body, 

YELLOW CUSTARD 

4 cups scalded milk 6 eggs (if baked in a i. cup sugar 

4 eggs (if baked in indi- large mold) i teaspoon salt 

vidual cups) Few grains nutmeg or cinnamon 

Beat eggs slightly, stir in the sugar and salt. Add the scalded milk 
slowly to the egg mixture; strain into buttered custard cups and sprinkle 
a little nutmeg on top of each. Set cups in a pan containing hot water, and 
baks in a moderate oven until custard is firm. One-half square melted 
chocolate may be added to the milk, to make chocolate custard. 

Custard mixtures may be poured over pieces of buttered toast or un- 
toasted bread; these may be cut into slices, strijis or cubes. Cocoanut, 
raisins, candied orange peel, chopped flgs or dates may be put between the 
layers, or the bottom of the buttered baking dish may be covered with drained 
fruit, the bread arranged and the whole covered with a custard mixture. 

Sponge cake crumbs or crumbles macaroons may be used with an 
unsweetened custard mixture. 

TAPIOCA CSEAM PUDDING 

1 i tablespoons minute 2 cups scalded milk i tablespoon salt 

tapisca, sr i cup 2 eggs 1 tablespoon vanilla 

peari tapioca | cup sugar 

Pick over tapioca and soak 1 hour in cold water to cover. Drain, add 
to milk and cook in a double boiler until tapioca is transparent. AUx the yolks 
with the sugar and salt. Combine by pouring hot mixture slowly into egg 
mixture. Return to double boiler and cook until it thickens while stirring 
constantly. Fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff, remove from range, 
chill and serve. 

SAGO PUDDING 

i cup sago i cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

2 cups scalded milk | teaspoon salt grated rind of a lemon 
2 eggs 

Pick over sago and wash. Drain, add to milk and cook in a double 
boiler until sago is transparent. Mix the yolks with sugar and salt. Com- 
bine mixture by pouring hot mixture slo'Kdy into egg mixture and cook in a 
double boiler until thickened. Fold in the stiffly-beaten wWtes; remove 
from range. Flavor and mold. Serve cold with grape sauce. Eggs may be 
omitted and } cups sago used in place of the i cup. 

RICE PUDDING 

2 cups steamed rice | cup milk | cup dates, ston^ and 

2 or 3 eggs | cup sugar cut into small pieces 



DESSERTS 51 



Add well-beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, milk and dates, cut in small pieces, 
to the steamed rice. Fold in the stiffly-beaten white and bake 30 minutes 
in a well-buttered and crumbed baking dish. Serve with cream or fruit 
sauce. Raisins may be used in place of dates. The eggs and milk mav be 
omitted and the sugar and fruit added to the steamed rice and served. 

APPLE SNOW 
I cut apple pulp Whites 3 eggs Powdered sugar 

Pare, quarter and core 4 sour apples. Steam -until soft and rub through 
sieve. There should be f cup apple pulp. Beat the whites of eggs until 
stiff; add gradually apples sweetened to taste. Pile lightly on a dish and serve 
with custard sauce. One tablespoon lemon juice may be added. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

I i cups scalded milk i cup sugar or syrup | teaspoon vanilla 
Yolks 3 eggs J teaspoon salt 

Beat the yolks slightly, add sugar and salt. Stir constantly while adding 
gradually the hot milk to the yolk mixture. Return to the double boiler. 
Cook in the double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture thickens, and a 
coating is formed on the spoon. Chill and flavor. If cooked too long, 
custard will curdle. Should this happen, beating the mixture with a Dover 
egg beater will restore the smooth consistency. When eggs are scarce, use 
use 2 yolks and | tablespoon cornstarch. 

PRUITE WHIP 
Follow directions for apple snow, substituting f cup prune pulp. Pulp 
of fresh fruit or steamed, dried apricots or peaches may be used in place of 
the apple pulp. 

FRUIT BLANC MANGE 

3 cups fruit juice i cup sugar, unless fruit Dash of salt 
i scant cup cornstarch juice is sweet i cup water 

enough 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Heat the fruit juice in the top part of a double boiler, placed directly 
over the Are, until boiling point is reached. Add the cornstarch mixed with 
the cold water, sugar and salt, stirring all the time until thickened. Put 
into lower part of double boiler, filled | full of boiUng water and cook 20 
minutes. Add lemon juice and pour into molds. Serve with whipped cream. 
Sago or tapioca may be used in place of the cornstarch. 

BLANC MANGE 

4 cups scalded milk I cup sugar or syrup | cup milk 

i cup cornstarch J teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the dry ingredients, stir in the J cup of milk and add the mixture 
to the scalded milk in a double boiler, stirring all the time until thickened. 
Cook 30 minutes. Add flavoring and mold. Stiffly-beaten whites of eggs 
may be folded into the m.ixture. 



52 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE 
Prepare according to recipe for blanc mange. Add 1 square of melted 
chocolate, to which i cup of boiling water has been added. Mix thoroughly. 
Mold and chill. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

PRUNE PUBDING 
i pound prunes 1 tablespoon lemon juice IJ cups boiling water 

2 cups cold water Rind i lemon J cup cornstarch 
1 cup sugar or syrup 1-in. piece stick cinnamon 

Pick over and wash prunes, then soak 1 hour or more in cold water to 
cover. Boil until soft in the water in which they have been soaked. Remove 
the stones, add sugar, lemon juice and rind, cinnamon and boiUng water. 
If syrup IS used, add two more tablespoons of cornstarch. Simmer fifteen 
minutes. Remove cinnamon, mold and chill. Serve with plain or whipped 
cream. Chopped almonds may be added to the mixture just before being 
poured into the mold. 

FRTnX TAPIOCA PUDDING 
I cup tapioca 2 cups fruit sauce I tablespoon lemon Juice 

Cold water to cover J teaspoon salt Few grains nutmeg and 

2J cups boiUng water J cup sugar cinnamon 

Wash and soak the tapioca and sago 1 hour or more in enough cold 
water or fruit juice to cover; add the boiling water, cooked fruit, fruit juices, 
salt, sugar and lemon rind. Cook in a double boiler until tapioca is trans- 
parent. Mold, chill and serve with cream and sugar. Minute tapioca may 
be used, and this requires no soaking. 

SCALLOPED APPLES OR FRUIT 

3 apples cut in eighths J teaspoon nutmeg 2 cups soft bread crumbs 
I cup sugar J cup water 2 tablespoons butter 

I teaspoon cinnamon J lemon juice and rind 

Cook the fruit with the sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and water, until soft; 
add lemon juice and rind. Arrange in layers in a buttered baking dish, 
using I of the buttered crumbs on the bottom of the baking dish, then ^ the 
apple sauce, then buttered crumbs, apple sauce and theremainder of the crumbs 
on top. Bake in a moderate oven, until nicely browned on top. Other fruit 
sauces may be used in the same way — such as peach, apricot, rhubarb, etc. 

HUNTER'S PUDDING 

1 cup chopped suet -| teaspoon soda i teaspoon allspice 

f cup milk 1 teaspoon salt | teaspoon cinnamon 

f cup molasses i teaspoon clove 1 cup raisins in 2 tea- 

2 cups flour I teaspoon mace spoons flour 

Mix in the order given. Steam 2 J hours. Serve with yellow sauce. 

STEAMED WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING 

H -cups whole wheat flour | cup molasses 2 tatilespoons butter, 

^ teaspoon soda | cup milk or water melted 

i teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 1 cup chopped raisins 



DESSERTS 53 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk. Add beaten egg 
and melted butter, then the raisins. Beat mixture thoroughly. Chopped figs 
or dates may be useC Sfteani Z| hours nt a largp- mold, or 30 minutes in 
individual molds.. 

K-UM PTOH5IWG WTTHOtTT EGGS 
I quart cooked* mashed carrots | pound currants] 
i pound frnely^hopped suet | pound raisins >Dre(tge witlt ffour 

1 cup: sugaar I pound citron J 

2 eups flour or bread crmnbs]; 
1 1 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon cinnamon Sift together 

i teaspoon; cloves 
i grated nutmeg 

Mix ingredients in. ordes gwen:. Sieam H hours in a buittered mold. 
May be steamed in individuail moMsw Carrots should be forced throoigh a fine 
strainer., 

HAJtD SAXIGE 

J cup butter 1 cup pawdiereal sugar J teaspoow lemon extract 

I teaspoon vanilla extract 

Gceam the butter,, add sugar gradually ami fEavoring; Ta hard sauce 
may be adxled a little fruit j.mce or fam, such, as raspberry or strawberry. 

iEMOW SATXCE 
Icuprsugar li cups boiling water IJ teaspoons lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cornstarch I teaspoon buttor 

Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add boiling, water gradually, stirring, until 
tokened. Boil 5 minutes. Add butter and' lemon juice. Serve. 

LEMON JELLY 

2 tablespoons granu- 2 to 2i cups boiling water i cup lemon jiuice 

lated gelatin 1 cup sugar Rind 1 lemon 

§ cup cold water 

Soak gelatin 20 minutes ut eold water, then dissolve in boiling water. 
Add sugar,, the lemon juice and rind; strain into a mold and chill. Beating 
the lemon jelly while it is jelly-like with a Dover ^g beater will make it 
white and fluffy. Orange,, raspberry or other fruit jelly may be made in 
the same way» using § cup of the fruit juice with lemon juiee to taste; 

SPANISH CREAM 

2 tsblesposns granu- 3 egg yolks 3 egg whites- 

lated gelatin I cup sugar or syrup t teaspoon vasnillai 

3 cups milk I teaspoon salt 

Reserve J cup milk to soat gelatin. Scald the remaining 2| cups of milk. 
Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, add the sugar and salt; stir in rhe. scalded 
milk slowly and cook in double boiler until custard thickens, stirring all' the 
time. Remove from flre, add the soaked, gelatin and stir until' dissolved', 
titen strain. Beat the wliites tmtil stiif, fold into mixture-, Havor and turn 
&ito cold wet mold. Chin. 



54 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



FROZEN MIXTURES 

Ice and salt form a freezing mixture several degrees below the freezing 
point of water. Salt melts the ice, withdrawing heat from the contents of the 
can, and the melting ice dissolves the salt. The smaller the pieces of ice, the 
more quickly the change to liquid, and the more salt used, the more quickly the 
mixture is frozen. If too much salt is used, however, the frozen mixture will 
be coarsely grained. Three parts ice to 1 part salt is the best proportion 
for a smooth, fine-grained cream. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

Scald can, cover and dasher, then chill. 

Place the can of the freezer in the pail; put in the dasher, and pour in mixture 
to be frozen. Cover and adjust top. Turn crank to make sure can fits in socket. 

Fill the space between the can and pail with alternate layers of ice and 
salt, allowing 3 measures of ice to 1 of salt. The ice and salt should come a 
little higher in the pail than mixture to be frozen. 

The can should not be more than f full, as the mixture expands in freezing. 

Turn the crank slowly at first, the'n turn crank more rapidly, adding more 
salt and ice if needed. Do not draw off the water, unless it stands so high 
that there is danger of it getting into the can. 

After freezing, draw off water, remove dasher, and with spoon push solidly. 

Put cork in opening of cover. Repack, using 4 parts of ice to 1 of salt. 
Place on top newspapers, an old blanket, or a piece of carpet. 

HOW TO MAKE ICE-CREAM OR ICES WITHOUT A FREEZER 

Cover bottom of pail with crushed ice. Put in baking-powder can, 
tumbler, or lard pail containing mixture to be frozen, and surround with ice 
and salt. Turn can or tumbler with hand occasionally, and as soon as it 
begins to freeze, scrape frozen mixture from sides of can with a knife or 
spatula, and beat mixture with spoon, continuing until mixture is frozen. 

Ice-cream is frozen cream. Frozen pudding is frozen cream or custard 
to which fruits and nuts are added. It is usually served with a sauce. 

iVlousse is prepared with whipped cream, which gives it a mossy con- 
sistency. It is molded and packed in ice and salt. 

Water ices are fruit mixtures diluted with water and frozen. 

VANILLA ICE-CREAM (1) 

I quart thin cream | cup sugar 1| tablespoons vanilla 

JVIix ingredients and freeze. 

VANILLA ICE-CKEAM (2) 

I I cups scalded milk | teaspoon salt 1 quart thin cream 

1 tablespoon flour 1 egg 2 tablespoons vanilla 

J cup sugar 

Mix flour, sugar and salt; add egg, slightly beaten, and milk gradually. 
Cook in double boiler 20 minutes, stirring constantly at first. Should custard 



FROZEN MIXTURES 55 



have curdled appearance, it will disappear in freezing. When cool, add 
flavoring and ci%am. Strain and freeze. Fresh fruit may be cut up and served 
with the ice-cream. Serve crushed fruit sauce, chocolate sauce or maple sauce, 
with or without chopped nuts, on top of each serve of ice-cream when desirable. 

MILK SHERBET 
2 cups sugar or syrup 1 quart milk I cup lemon juice 

iVIix the sugar and strained lemon juice. Pour the milk iato the freezer 
can, add the lemon mixture. Stir thoroughly, cover, freeze. 

LEMON ICE-CREAM 
2 cups milk 1^ cups sugar or syrup Rind 1 lemon 

2 cups cream Juice 3 lemons 

Mix ingredients and freeze according to directions. 

PINEAPPLE ICE-CREAM 
Add 1 can grated pineapple to Lemon Ice-cream recipe, using only 1 
cup sugar. Freeze mixture. 

ORANGE ICE-CREAM 
Add J cup orange juice and grated rind of 2 oranges to Lemon Ice-cream 
recipe. Freeze mixture. 

PEACH ICE-CREAM 
1| cups peach pulp Juice 1 lemon 1 quart cream 

IJ cups sugar or syrup 
Mix and freeze. 

BANANA ICE-CREAM 
One and i cups banana pulp may be used in place of the peach pulp. 

ICES 

Water !ce fs fruit juice sweetened, diluted with water and frozen. 

Sherbet is a water ice mixture to which is added dissolved gelatin or 
beaten whites of eggs. 

Frapp£ !s a water ice mixture frozen to a mush, using equal parts of ice 
and salt in freezing. 



56 THE METROPOLITAN LlEE COOK BOOK 



CAKES 

Cakes should be regarded as confection and eaten as such. 

WAR CAKE 
1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon salt 3 cups flour 

1 cup corn syrup 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon soda 

1 1 cups boiling water i teaspoon cloves 2 teaspoons baking- 

2 cups raisins | teaspoon 'nutmeg powder 

2 tablespoons fat 

Boil first 9 ingredients. Cool, add the flour sifted with the soda and 
baking-powder. Drop into well-greased loaf tins. Bake 45 minutes in a 
moderately hot oven. Make 2 loaves. 

PLAIN CAKE 
if cup fat I cup milk I teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 3 egg whites 

3 egg yolks 3 teaspoons baking-powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the fat, add sugar gradually and continue to cream until the 
mixture is creamy. Add the well-beaten yolks, the milk alternately with 
the flour mixed and sifted with the baking-powder and salt. Beat mixture 
thoroughly. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and vanilla. Bake in a loaf 
or layers. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Make same as Plain Cake, adding one square melted chocolate cooked 
with 2 tablespoons boiling water, to the fat and sugar mixture. 

MARBLE CAKE 
Make same as Plain Cake, adding J square melted chocolate cooked 
with 1 tablespoon boiling water, to J of the batter. Arrange spoonfuls of 
dark and white mixtures in a well-greased pan. 

FIG CAKE 
Make same as Plain Cake. Add J teaspoon cinnamon, i teaspoon 
cloves, i cup finely-chopped flgs to | of the batter. Bake this in 1 layer 
and the remaining | in 2 layers. When done, put flg layer between the other 
two, a layer of frosting between each. 

LIGHT FRUIT CAKE 
Make same as Plain Cake, adding f cup finely-cut citron, J cup currants, 
i cup raisins and | cup finely-chopped nuts. 

NUT CAKE 
Make same as Plain Cake, adding 1 cup nut meats and 2 tablespoons less 
shortening. ^^ 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 
i cup fat I cup milk 2 squares chocolate 

1 cup sugar 1 J cups flour | teaspoon vanilla 

2 eggs 2i teaspoons baking-powder 



CAKES 57 



Cream the fat; add sugar gradually, eggs well beaten and milk. Add 
flour mixed and sifted with baking-powder. Beat thoroughly, then add 
chocolate and vanilla. Bake in layers. Frost with White Mountain Cream 
frosting to which 3 tablespoons of grated chocolate have been added. One 
cup molasses may be substituted for the sugar, using only 3 tablespoons 
milk, adding | teaspoon soda and substituting rye flour for the white. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 
1 cup sugar apple sauce mixed | cup currants dredged with 

3 teaspoons cinnamon with 2 teaspoons 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon cloves soda 2J cups flour 

1| cups unsweetened | cup raisins I cup melted butter 

Measure ingredients in order given in a bowl. Beat vigorously. Bake 
in a well-greased loaf tin. 

QUICK CAKE 

1 cup soft fa^t (scant) 1 1 cups bread flour 1 

li cups brown sugar 3 teaspoons baking-powder I ,,. „„ j „•,, 

2 eggs i teaspoon cinnamon '^^^ ^^^ ^"' 
I cup milk I teaspoon nutmeg J 

I pound dates or J cup raisins 

Put ingredients in bowl in order given, and do not stir until all have 
been added. Beat for 3 minutes. Bake in a buttered or greased pan from 
35 to 45 minutes. May be baked in muffin tins. One-quarter cup cocoa 
may be added. 

SOtTR CREAM CAKE 
1| cups sour cream 3 eggs, well beaten 2i teaspoons baking-powder 

Ij cups sugar 2 J cups flour f teaspoon soda 

Measure ingredients in order given, sifting flour, baking-powder and 
soda. Beat thoroughly. Bake. 

COCOANUT FRUIT CAKE 
} cup fat I cup candied orange peel 2 teaspoons baking- 

1 cup sugar 3 beaten whites of eggs powder 

I cup grated cocoanut I i cups flour J teaspoon vanilla 

f cup chopped almonds | teaspoon salt 

Cream the shortening, add sugar gradually, the cocoanut, almonds, 
orange peel and vanilla. Alternate the flour sifted with the salt and baking- 
powder, with the milk. Beat, fold in the egg whites. Bake in a loaf tin, 
in a moderate oven, about 30 minutes. 

CAKES WITHOUT FAT 
C^AP SPONGE CAKE 
Yolks 2 eggs Tcup flour I teaspoon salt 

f cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking- Whites 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons hot water powder J tablespoon vinegar 

Beat yolks until thick. Add sugar gradually and continue beating. 
Then add water, flour mixed and sifted with the baking-powder and salt. 
Fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs and vinegar. Bake 35 minutes, 
in a moderate oven, in an unbuttered or a buttered and floured cake pan. 



58 THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

Yolte 4 eggs 1 i tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspn. lemon extract 

1 cup sugar 1 scant oup of flour i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons cold water 1 1 teaspoons baking-powder Whites 4 eggs 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar gradually and beat 2 minutes. Then 
add water. iViix and sift cornstarch, flour, baking-powder and salt, and add 
to first mixture. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites and flavoring. Bake about 
20 minutes in a moderate oven. This cake may be made with 2 eggs, and 
using 2 additional teaspoons of baking-powder and 2 additional tablespoons 
water. 

MARTHA WASHINGTON PIE 

Bake cream of sponge cake mixture in 2 layers. Coel; fill between 
layers and spread on top with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
vanilla. 

CAKE FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS * 

Good frosting requires as much skill in making as candy. Boiled frostisgs 
are more delicious than those made with confectioners' sugar. When sugar 
is scarce, omit frostings on cakes, and use fillings only. 

BOILED FROSTING OR WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM 
1 cup suga-r 1-16 teaspoon cream of Whites of 1 or 2 eggs 

I cup water tartar J teaspoon flavoving 

Dissolve the sugar and cream of tartar in the water. Cover the saucepan 
first 5 minutes of cooking to prevent the formation of crystals on rh^ sides 
of ttei saucepan. If 1 beaten egg is used, boil the sugar solution to the soft- 
ball stage, until it forms 2-inch threads when dropped from a spoon or fork. 
If 2 egg whites are used, boil to the firm ball stage. The syrup should not 
be stirred during the process trf cooking, nor the saucepan moved. If crystals 
do coHect on the sides of the saucepan, remove with a wet cloth or wet brush. 
When the sugar solution has boiled to the right temperature, pour it gradually 
into the sit^Sy-^beaXen whites of eggs, beating continually while pouring, 
and continue beating until of right consistency to spread on the cakes. Fhivor. 

NUT FROSTING 
Add nut meats to White Mountain Cream. 

LADY BALTIMORE FROSTING 
Add nut meats, chopped figs, chopped angeUca to White Mountain Cream. 

MINNEHAHA FROSTPP® 
Add dropped seeded Taisins to White Mountain Cream. 

MAPLE FROSTING ** 

Substitute -maple sugar for granulated sugar in White Mountain Cream. 

J 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Add 1 square meilftejJ ilaooolate to White Mountain Cream. 



CAKES 59 

MILK FROSTING 
2 cups sugar | cup milk | tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil first 3 ingredients to soft-ball stage. Remove from fire, let stand 
about 8 minutes and beat until creamy. Add vanilla. 

CREAM FILLING 
I cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 2 cups scalded milk 

J cup flour 2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients; add eggs slightly beaten, and pour in gradually the 
scalded milk. Cook 15 minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly until 
thickened. Cool and flavor. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLING 
Add 1| squares melted chocolate to Cream Filling mixture. 

ORANGE OR LEMON FILLING 

1 cup sugar 1 egg, slightly beaten J cup orange juice 

2 tablespoons flour Grated rind | orange 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Mix sugar and flour; add other ingredients in order given. Cook 20 
minutes in a double boiler, stirring constantly until thickened. Cool before 
spreading. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING 
1 cup sugar | pound marshmallows, 2| tablespoons hot water 

1 cup milk cut into small pieces 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Bo'il sugar and milk until soft-ball stage is reached. Melt marshmallows 
In a double boiler, add hot water and cook mixture until smooth, stirring 
;continually while adding milk and sugar mixture. Beat until cool. 

SAUCES TO SERVE WITH PUDDINGS AND ICE-CREAM 
CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

2 squares cirocolate 1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

melted § cup syrup or sugar mixed with 1 table- 

spoon cold water 

Add the boiling water to the sugar or syrup, then add gradually to the 
melted chocolate, stirring all the time while adding. Heat to boiling point, 
add the cornstarch mixture and boil 5 minutes. Flavor with vanilla and serve 
hot or cold. 

FRUIT SAUCE 
1 tablespoon cornstarch i cup sugar or syrup Chopped fruit or chopped 

mixed with 1 table- If cup^boUing water fruit and nuts 

spoon cold water ^tablespoons lemon juice 

Add the cornstarch mixture to the sugar or syrup and then the boiling 
water and boil 5 minutes; add the lemon juice, cool, and add the chopped 
fruit. 

BANANA FILLING 
1 cup banana pulp J cup sugar juice J lemon I tablespoon butter 

Cook and stir until thickened. 



60 THE, METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



COOKIES 

PEANUT COOKIES 

2 tablespoons fat 1 teaspoon baking- 2i tablespoons milk 

J cup sugar powder f cup chopped peanuts 

1 egg, well-beaten J teaspoon salt J teaspoon lemon juice 
J cup- flour 

Cream the tat, add sugar gradually, add well-beaten egg. Mix and sift 
baking-powder, salt and flour; add to first mixture. Then add milk, peanuts 
and lemon juice. Drop from tip of a spoon on an unbuttered sheet 1 inch 
apart. Place J peanut on top of each. Bake 12 to 15 minutes in a slow oven. 
This makes 24 cookies. 

CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIES 

i cup fat 1 i cup flour (may be 2 squares melted choc- 
1 cup light brown sugar part buckwheat) olate 

1 well-beaten egg | teaspoon soda 1 cup chopped nuts 

i cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the fat, add the brown sugar gradually, then the well-beaten 
egg, milk and the flour mixed and sifted with the soda. Stir in the melted 
chocolate, dtopped nuts and vanilla. Drop mixture by spoonfuls onto a 
well-buttered pan. 

FRUIT COOKIES 

I cup fat 1 tablespoon hot water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

i cup sugar li cups flour | to 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 egg I teaspoon salt | cup raisins 
I teaspoon soda 

Cream the fat, add sugar gradually, and eggs, well beaten. Add soda 
dissolved in water, i flour mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon. Then 
add nut meat, fruit and remaining flour. Drop by spoonfuls onto a greased 
tin, 1 inch apart, and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup fat 2 cups oatmeal 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour J teaspoon salt 

2 beaten eggs 1 teaspoon soda 1 cup raisins 
i cup milk 

Cream the fat, add the sugar gradually and ,^rk until creamy. Add 
the well-beaten eggs, milk and oatmeal, the flour,^soda, cinnamon and salt 
mixed and sifted, and the raisins. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto a buttered 
pan. Bake. 

FILLED COOKIES 
Roll cookie dough into rectangular shape, sprinkle with spices or spread 
v/ith fruit or fruit nut mixture. Fold, roll again and cuf out and bake. 



PASTRY 61 



PASTRY 

Pastry, if it fs to be served at all, should be li^ tender and flaky. 
It is then more easily digested. 

Winter wheat flour, called pastry flour, should be used as it makes the 
pastry more tender than bread flour. Less shortening is required when 
pastry flour is used. 

The lightness of the pastry depends upon the amount of air enclosed and 
its expansion in baking. 

The flakiness depends upon the number of layers of shortening and paste 
formed by folding and rolling. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Use butter substitutes for the fat 

Rub in with the tips of the fingers or chop in with a knife. 
Add enough cold water to make a stiff dough, using a knife for mixing. 
AH the ingredients must be cold. 

Handle the dough as little as possible, and keep it as cold as possible, 
as heat melts the fat and makes it difficult to handle tlie dough. 
Use as little flour as possible during the rolling. 
Cut the pastry a little larger than the dish to allow for shrinlcage. 

RECIPE FOR PASTRY 

li cups flour I to I cup shortening Cold water to make a stiff 

§ teaspoon salt dough, about 4i table- 

spoons. 
Mix and sift the flour and salt. Rub in shortening with tips of fingers 
or cut it into the flour with 2 knive^. - Add the cold water, using a knife for 
mixing. Knead the dough lightly into a ball. Cut in two; tqH into circular 
pieces to fit pie tin. 

APPLE PIE 

5 sour apples • 1 teaspoon butter | teaspoon nutmeg 

i teaspoon salt } teaspoon cinnamon Few gratings lemon rind 

J cup sugar 1- teaspoon lemon juice 

Line pie plate with paste. Pare, core and cut apples and fill the pie. 
Mix the dry ingredients and lemon juice, and sprinkle over apples. Dot 
over with butter. Wet edges of under crust, cover with upper crust, |iressing 
the edges close together. Bake in a hot oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until 
fruit is cooked. 

LEMON PIE 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 2 egg yolks 

3 tablespoons cornstarch Grated rind 1 lemon Juice 1 lemon 

1 cup boiling water 

■^ Mix cornstarch and sugar; add to boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Cook until clear; add the butter, beaten yolks, lemon juice and rind. Cool. 
Line plate with paste. Prick the paste and bake. Fill with lemon mixture 
and cover with meringue, and bake until meringue is brown. 



62 THE METROPOLITAN LIEE COOK BOOK~ 



MERINGUE 
Whites 2 eggs 2 tablespoons sugar or pow- 

1 i tablespoons lemon dered sugar, and | tea- 

juice spoon vanilla 

Beat the whites until stiff; fold In sugar and add flavoring. 

COCOANTJT CREAM PIE 
1 J cups scalded milk 3 tablespoons corn- 1 tablespoon butter 

I cup sugar starch I cup shredded cocoanut 

J teaspoon salt Yolks 3 eggs § teaspoon vanilla 

Add the sugar, cornstarch and salt to the egg yolks. Pour the scalded 
milk into this, return to double boiler, stir and cook until thickened. Add 
the butter, cocoanut and vanilla. Pour into a pie tin lined with pastry. 
Bake. Cover with meringue. 

MINCE PIE 
i^ine a pie tin with pastry. Fill with mince meat. Cover with pastry. 

MINCE MEAT 

1 i cups chopped beef 1 cup cider Grating of nutmeg 

(roast or steak) | cup syrup from sweet J teaspoon cloves 

1 pint chopped apple pickle jar | teaspoon cinnamon 

J cup chopped suet 1 teaspoon salt f cup raisins (Sultana pre- 

1| cups sugar 1 teaspoon mace f erred) 

Mix all together. Cook 1 hour. Put into sterilized jars. 

CRANBERRY AND RAISIN PIE, OR MOCK CHERRY PIE 

2 cups cranberries 1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon or^ 
1 cup water I cup cracker crumbs orange juice 

I cup seeded raisins 1 egg 

Boil first 3 ingredients until cranberries burst open, then add the sugar. 
Cool, add the cracker crumbs, egg and orange juice. Line a pie plate with 
pastry. Fill with fruit mixture. Arrange strips of pastry lattice fashion over 
top and bake in a quick oven 25 minutes. * 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1 J cups steamed pump- | teaspoon cinnamon | teaspoon salt 

kin forced through | teaspoon ginger 1 slightly beaten egg 

a strainer | teaspoon cloves f cup milk 

i cup sugar 

Mix ingredients in order given. Bake in a pie tin lined with pastry. 



IN-D:ex 



63 



B 

Baking-powder Breads IG 

Buckwheat Nut BiGsd 17 

Currant Bread 17 

Graham Bakmg-powder Nut 

Bread 17 

Peanut Bread 17 

Rice Bread 17 

Sour Milk Graham Bread. .. 16 

Batters andI)Qughs(3eeGeresI 
Plour^etc.) 

Battersand Doughs^TimeTable 
for Baking (See Muffins) 

Beans (See Meat Substitutes) 

Beverages 24 

Breakfast Cocoa... 24 

Chocokite 24 

Coffee 24 

Tea 24 

Biscuits (See Muffins) 

Brai^g, General DirectioDafor 33 

Beef a la Mode 33 

Meat en Casserole 33 

Meat Roll 33 

Ptrt-roast 33 

Bread and Bread Making 19 

Bread Making, Ingredients 

Needed for 19 

Flavors 20 

Flour 19 

liquids Used 19 

Recipe for liquid Teast.... 20 
Yeast 20 

Biead Makings General 

Directions foe 20 

Braikwheat Bread 22 

Flntire Wheat or Bran Bread 21 

Oatmeal Bread 22 

Rice Bread 22 

Rye and Oatmeal Bread 21 

Rye Bread 21 

White Bread 21 

Breads, Steamed 17 

Boston Brown Bread IS 

Steamed Oatmeal Bread IS 

Steumn^ Breads, General 
Directions- for -. 17 

Bread that ReqiHres No Knead- 
ing 23 

Bran Bread 23 

Health Bread 23 

Breakfast l^hes 7 

IVuit, Cereal IGstaies, Milk 

C 
Cakes 56 

Apple Cake (See Muffins) 

Apple &uce Cake ... 57 

Chocolate Cake fiO 

Cocoanut F^uit Cake S7 

Com Cake (See Muffins) 

HgCake 66 

I^tJESMdtC^e SS 

Ma^teCafce 58 



INDEX 

vAan 

NutCake 56 

Plain Cake 56 

Quick Cake 67 

Quksk Coffee Cake (SeeMuf- 

fius) 
Short Cake (See Muffins) 

Sour Cream. Cake 37 

Tea Cakes (See Muffins) 

War Cake 56 

Cake Frostings and FiHingB... 53 
Boiled R-oating or White 

Moimtaia Cream 58 

Chocolate Cream FiBing.... 59 

Chocolate Frosting 58 

Cream Filling 59 

Lady Baltimore JFrosting. . . 58 

Maple Frosting 58 

Marshnmlkfw FiiEng* 59 

MilkFrostmg 59 

Minnehaha J^osting 58 

NutFroating 58 

Oiange or Lenum filling. . . 59 

Cakes without Fat 57 

Martha Waslan^onKe.... 58 

Sponge Cake, Cheap 57 

Sponge Cake, Cream 58 

Cereals 7 

Cereals, General Eulw frar 

Cooking 8 

Cereals,. '\'^iat to Do with 

Left-over 8 

Conuneal Mush.. 8 

Oatmeal Mush 8 

Steamed Bice 8 

Cereal Flour and Meal Mix- 
tures 10 

Batters and Doughs 10 

Bread Griddle C^es U 

Buckwheat and Rye Griddle 

Cakes 11 

Cornmeal Griddle Cakes. . . 11 
Griddle Cakes» General Di- 
rectioi^ for Making and 

Cooking 10 

Baised Buckwheat. Griddle 

Cakes U 

Velvet Griddle Cakes. 11 

Waffles 12 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes 11 
Cheese (See Mrat Substitutes) 

Cookies 60 

Chocolate Drop Cookies.-.. 60 

Filled Cookies 60 

Fiuit Cookies 60 

Oatmeal Coddes 60 

Peanut Cot^ies 60 

Cream Stcmps 26 

Cream Soups, General Direc- 
tions for Making 26 

Corn Chowder 27 

Cream of Carrot Soup 25 

Cream of Celery 27 

Cream of Com 27 

Cream oTTomato 27 

Ksh Chowder 27 



TAGS 

D 

Daily Meals; 0ar 3 

Bafs Food, The 3 

Desserts 50 

Apple Snow 51 

Blanc 2Vfai^ 51 

Chocolate Bfenc Mange 52 

Custard Saraca..,. 51 

Frozen. JsJ&stoFes (See Frozen 
Micbure^ 

Fruit Blano M&nge 51 

Fruit Loaf (^eo J^ffins) 

Fruit Tapioca Puddhig 53 

Hard Sauce., .^.. 53 

Htmter's pudding 52 

Lemon Jelly 53 

Lemon Sauoe 53 

PIumPadc^witiioufcBgge. 53 

Prune FuddSng 52 

Prune Wiip 51 

Eaee Puddmg 50 

Sago Pudding,„ 50 

Scalloped Ajjjjlea er Fruit.. 52 
Spanish Cream 63 

■ Tapioca Cceam Pudding. . . 50 
Whole Wlieat Pudding, 

Steamed 52 

Yellow Custard 50 

Dried Fruit, Birections for 
Cooking. ,, 7 

Dumplings (See Muffins) 

E 
Eggs (See Meat Safetitutes) 
Equivalents 6 

P 

Fat 7 38 

Cracyings 38 

Fat, Cilarifying 38 

Fat, Savory 38 

Fats, Softening' Hard 38 

Fat— T<J Hender, to Use,, for 

Cooking 38 

Fats, Uses of Clarified. 38 

Fish \ 28 

Codfish Balls '30 

Hah— Baked» with. Stuffing. 29 

Fish Croquettes 29 

Fish, Fresh— How to Select. 28 

Fish, How ta Clean 28 

Fish, Methods of Coaking.. 28 

Fish, Test for CooMng- 29 

Fish,Time Table for GJooking 29 

Sahnon Loaf 30 

Salmon Steaks— Stuffed. ... 29 
ScalToped Flake Cod or 

Other FisSi 30 

Scalloped Salted Codfish 

andRice 30 

Stuffing 29 

Trout, Broiled, or Other Fish 29 

Food Materials, Care of. 4 

Food* &lecti<»i and Fsepaxa- 
tion of . ., ., 4 

Frozen Mixtures. 54 

Banana Ice-cream> 55 

Freezing, Directions for. . . , 54 
Ice-cream or Tees without a 
Freezer, How to Make. . . 54 



64 



THE METROPOLITAN LIFE COOK BOOK 



PAGE 

Frozen Mixtures — Continued 

Milk Sherbet 55 

Orange Ice-cream 55 

Peach Ice-cream, 55 

Pineapple Ice-cream 55 

Vanilla Ice-cream (I) 54 

Vanilla Ice-cream (2) ..... . 54 

G 

Gravy (See Roasting and Poultry) 
Griddle Cakes (See Cereal Flour) 

I 

Ice-cream (See Frozen Mixtures) 
Ice3 55 

M 

Meat '. 31 

, ^■^' Beef a la Mode fSeeBraising) 
Calf's Liver and Bacon (See 

Roasting) 
Meat en C^eserole (See Brais- 
ing) 

Meat, How to Broil 32 

Meat Loaf (See Roasting) ^ 

Meat Pie 32 

Meat Roll (See Braising) 

Meat, Selection of 31 

Meat Stews, How to Prepare 31 
New England Boiled Dinner 32 
Pan - Broiled Hamburger 

Steak 32 

Pork Chops (See Roasting) 
Pork Sausage (See Roasting) 
Pot-roast (See Braising) 
Steaks or Chops, To Broil... 32 

Meat Substitutes 39 

Beans, Baked 42 

Beans, Peas and Lentils 41 

Cheese and Com Souffle. ... 41 

Cheese Dishes... 40 

Cheese Pondu 41 

Chili CoQ Came 41 

Cottage Cheese and Nut 

Loaf 41 

Eggs : 39 

Eggs, Baked 39 

Eggs, Baked, in Ham Cases . 39 
Eggs, Baked, with Cheese.. 39 

Eggs, Coddled 40 

Eggs, General Directions for 

Cooking. 39 

Eggs, Poached 39 

Eggs, Poached, and Creamed 

Fish 39 

Eggs, Scalloped, and Bam, . 40 

Eggs, Scrambled 40 

Macaroni, Baked, orRiceand 

Cheese 41 

Omelet, Bread 40 

Omelet, Meat and Vegetable 40 

Omelet, Oyster. 40 

RedBeans 43 

Red Brans, Spanish Style. . 42 
Red Beans, Stewed, with 

Bacon 42 

Measurements 5 

Muffins, General Directions for 
Making 12 



INDEX— Continued 

PAGE 

Apple Cake 16 

Apple John 16 

Baking-powder Biscuits. ... 14 
Batters and Doughs, Time 

Table for Baking 12 

Bran Muffins 13 

Cereal Muffins 13 

Corn Cake 14 

Conuneal Muffins, Eggless. . 12 

Cormneal Rolls 15 

Xhnnplings 15 

FruitLoal 15 

Gingerbread. Hot-water.... 14 

Graham Muffins 13 

Meat Rolls 16 

Oatmeal Muffins 13 

Pinwheel Biscuits 15 

Plam Muffins 12 

Pop-overs 14 

Potato Cormneal Muffins 

(Eggleas) 13 

Quick Biscuits 15 

Quick Coffee Cakrf 16 

RichMuffins '... 13 

Rye Muffins 12 

Short Cake, No. 1 and 2. .15, 16 
Sour Milk or Soda Biscuits.. 15 
Tea Cakes 15 

P 

Pastry 61 

Apple Pie 61 

Cocoanut Cream Pie 62 

Cranberry and Raisin Pie, 

or Mock Cherry Pie 62 

General Directions 61 

Lemon Pie 61 

Meringue 62 

Mince Meat 62 

Mince Pie 62 

Pumpkin Pie 62 

Recipe for Pastry 61 

Poultry 35 

Chicken, Baked 37 

Chicken Croquettes 37 

Chicken Fricassee 36 

Chicken Pie 37 

Chicken, Roast 35 

Chicken Stew 36 

Goose, Roast, with Stuffing. 37 

Goose, To Garnish 37 

Gravy, To Make 36 

Stuffing (1) 36 

Stuffing (2)— Chestnut 36 

Stuffing (3) . . ..-. 36 

Stuffing, Mashed Potato ... 37 
Stuffing, Prune and Apple . . 37 
Turkey, To Roast 35 

R 
Rabbit, Baked (See Roasting) 

Roasting-^eneral Directions. 34 

Calf's Liver and Bacon 34 

Chop Suey 35 

Gravy 34 

Meat Loaf 34 

Pork Chops with Dressing.. 35 

Pork Sausage 35 

Rabbit, Baked 35 

" Roasting, Time Table for... 34 



PAGB 

Bolls and How to Make Them 22 

Cinnamon Rolls 23 

Clover Leaf Biscuits 22 

Meat Rolls (See Muffins) 

Parkerhouse Rolls 22 

SweetRoUs 22 

Syrup 23 

Rules, A Few General 5 

Salads ^ 16.47 

Cold Slaw 47 

FruitSalad 48 

Herring Salad 49 

Jellied Fruit Salads 48 

Jellied Vegetable.Salad 48 

Lemon Jelly 49 

Macaroni Salad 49 

Macedoine Salad 48 

Meat Salad (Chicken or Veal) 49 
Sandwiches Which May Be 

Served with Salad 49 

Tomato Salad 48 

Vegetables, Raw, for Salads, 

How to Prepare 46 

Waldorf Salad. 48 

Salad Dressings 46 

Cooked Salad Dressing 47 

Cold Slaw Dressing. 47 

FrencLChiffonade Dressing. 46 

French Dressing 46 

French Thousand Island 

Dres^ng 46 

Fruit Salad Dressing 47 

Mayonnaise Dressing 47 

Russian Salad Dressing 46 

Thousand Island Salad Dres- 
sing 46 

Sandwiches (See Salads) 
Sauces to Serve with Puddings 

and Ice-cream 59 

Banana Filling 59 

ChocolateSauce 59 

Fruit Sauce 59 

Soups ' 25 

Baked Bean Soup 26 

Cream Soups (See Cream 
Soups) 

Scotch Broth 25 

Split Pea Soup 26 

Tomato Soup 25 

Vegetable Soup 25 

Stuffing (See Poultry)^ 

Toast 7. 9 

Cream or White Sauce 9 

Cream Toast 9 

French Toast 9 

y 

Vegetables 43 

Vegetables, Buying 43 

Vegetables, Gener^ Rules for 

Cooking 43 

Vegetables, Different Kinds 

of. How to Prepare 44 

Vegetables — Time Table for 

Cooking in Water 44 

w 331 

Waffles (See Muffins) 



03: 




