
-to 



Household Science 
Department 
Uniy. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



COMPLETE IN TWELVE NUMBERS 
VOL. XIV, 1922 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1922 



TX 
I 




(( AUG 1 "^ 1355 
^^^■^SITY OF "^^^ ^ 



11.01578 



Vol. XIV, No. 1 January, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garmo Bryan. Editor Keturah E. Baldwin. Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Katharine Fisheb Grace G. Denny 

Editor of "The Question Box," AuY Daniels 
Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazzard. Social Welfare 
Florence Ward, Extension 

Katharine Blunt and Sybil Woodruff, Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell, Education 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Henrietta French, Institution Economics 
Alice Biester, Bibliography 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Home Economics Teacher and Cojimunity Interest in Nutrition 

Mary G. McCormick 1 

Achievements of Home Economics Ahhy L. Marlatt 5 

Some Experiments on the DiGESTrarLiTY of Rolled Oats Prepared in Various Ways 

Mary Swartz Rose 9 

Factors Influencing Nutrition Work among Italians Lucy H. Gilletl 14 

Progress Report on the Petticoat Test Ellen Beers McGowan 20 

The Call op the Business World for Trained Workers John Willy 23 

For the Homemaker 

HoMEMAKDJG AS A PHASE OF CITIZENSHIP Cora M. Winchell 27 

Editorial 34 

Books and Literatttre 39 

News from the Field 45 

Mid-winter Meeting, A. H. E. A S3 



The Journal op Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
12.50 A YEAR FOREIGN J2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change iato take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Jooehal of Home Eco.-JOincs is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston: 
A. C. McClure & Co., Chicaiio: Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore: Woodward and Lothrop. Washington 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV JANUARY, 1922 No. 1 

THE HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER AND COMMUNITY 
INTEREST IN NUTRITION 

MARY G. MC CORMICK 
Supervisor of Nuiriiion of School Children, New York Slate Department of Education 

Most organizations that are engaged in promoting child welfare are 
adopting a nutrition program. When their various plans are ultimately 
in full articulation, care for the nutrition of the child will begin with the 
pre-natal period, continue during infancy and the pre-school age, and 
extend throughout his school life. Begiimings have already been made. 
For some time the infant welfare stations have been caring for the pre- 
natal period and the period of infancy; as yet little has been done in an 
organized way for the pre-school age. The marked attention which 
has been given to the school children may be partially traced to the fact 
that the school organization makes the school children accessible in 
groups. 

While a nutrition program for school children is a matter to be under- 
taken by school administrators, its claims and importance are not yet 
recognized by all school officials. Suggestions that such a program be 
introduced are received in varying ways according to the temperament 
of the superintendents, the responsiveness of the board of education, or 
the sentiment of the community. Some superintendents have recom- 
mended to their boards of education that an appropriation to employ a 
nutrition specialist be made; the boards have approved, but the item in 
the budget was eliminated by the board of estimate, because there was 
not enough public sentiment to demand it. Other superintendents who 
are enthusiastic about nutrition work are fettered by boards of education 
that share none of this enthusiasm. Some superintendents, fortunately 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

few in nviinber, are uninterested and very complacent, because, for- 
sooth, their school children are weU nourished ! When sufficient pub- 
licity has been given to the need for nutrition work and when the people 
are willing to give financial support to the school authorities who are 
trying to promote it, its introduction into the schools and its develop- 
ment there wiU be rapid. 

Most superintendents are willing and able to take the first steps, one 
of which is the equipment of their schools with scales. Of the 59 cities 
in New York State, for instance, only 4 have no scales in the schools. 
Of the 58 \'illages in the state only 9 have no scales in the schools. In 
some parts of the state, scales in the rural schools are found in surpris- 
ing nmnbers. In Erie County the Red Cross has helped to equip 131 
rural schools with scales. In Broome, Chenango, and SulHvan Counties 
the Red Cross has taken a similar step. 

Most superintendents find it possible to take the second step, that is 
the introduction of the milk feeding for the children found to be under- 
nourished. This practice has growTi rapidly in New York State: it has 
been introduced already in 40 cities and 28 villages. The children who 
are able to pay for the mUk are expected to do so. For the children 
who need the milk and cannot afford to buy it, funds are usually fur- 
nished by such organizations as the Parent-Teacher Associations and 
the Mothers' Clubs. We have recommended that the undernourished 
children in the rural schools be urged to bring from home an extra quan- 
tity of milk and that they be given an opportunity to take it in the mid- 
morning and mid-afternoon. 

There is another step which our school officials will take if there is 
an apparent need for it in their schools and if it may be taken without 
much expense. This is the noon lunch. In many cities and villages 
there is a considerable niunber of boys and girls who Hve on the farms 
and drive back and forth each day to attend high school. They carry 
a lunch box and at noon eat its cold contents. If the community is an 
industrial center where the local mothers are at work in factories their 
children also may be found eating a cold lunch at school. To such boys 
and girls a hot nutritious dish sold at school at cost would be a very 
great advantage. In many locahties the home economics class is meet- 
ing this need. The home economics teachers say that when they have 
an opportimity to make this project an integral part of their program 
they welcome it, for it gives the girls an opportunity to cook in large 
quantity. In the rural schools, where the teachers are urged to intro- 
duce one simple hot dish at noon to supplement the children's box 



1922] COMMUNITY INTEREST IN NUTRITION 3 

lunches, both students and teacher enjoy a quiet social lunch hour dur- 
ing which many lessons in food selection and good eating habits may be 
incidentally taught. The rural hot lunch has been extensively adopted 
by the rural teachers of this state. They maintain that when properly 
organized it does not encroach on their noon hour and that the children 
do much better school work in the afternoon. The superintendents in 
the rural sections have given much encouragement to this activity. The 
Home Bureau Agents because of their friendly and intimate relations 
with the rural women have made it possible to create community interest 
in it. In order to train our future rural teachers we have asked the 
home economics teachers to give a series of ten lessons and demonstra- 
tions on the rural hot lunch before the members of the teachers' training 
classes. 

To almost every school official the need for these various health activi- 
ties has seemed obvious: because they could be incorporated into the 
program without increasing the school budget they have been readily 
undertaken. Monthly weighing of the children, mid-morning feeding 
of milk for the undernourished children, and noon lunches, however, 
will not necessarily correct malnutrition. Moreover the undernourished 
children as a group represent only about twenty per cent of our school 
population. A really complete nutrition program should include in its 
scope plans for improving the nutritional conditions of all school chil- 
dren. Ideally there ought to be a supervisor of nutrition on our school 
faculties, one who has made a special study of the nutritional conditions 
of school children and who, together with the school medical inspector, 
the school nurse, the oral hygienist and other speciahsts, would consti- 
tute a department of health education. Our most progressive schools 
are organizing such a department. 

In the meantime, plans must be formulated to awaken those locali- 
ties that are not yet interested in nutrition work. Efforts that bring the 
most rapid returns in community interest are those spent on the under- 
nourished child. It wiU hardly be necessary in most places to convince 
the public that there are undernourished children in their schools: the 
abundance of newspaper space given to the undernourished child in the 
last few years has informed most people that he is ubiquitous. It is 
necessary however to demonstrate that his condition is remedial, and 
the most effective kind of demonstration is a nutrition class. Anumberof 
undernourished children are selected for the demonstration; on the day 
of the weekly meeting each child is weighed and a weight curve is drawn 
for him on his own chart. The children are told what they must do in 



4 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

order to gain, and a competitive interest is aroused among them. Each 
week the children who gain are placed at one end of the class and those 
who do not gain at the other end. The children who gain are praised 
for their achievement; the one who gains the most receives a gold star on 
his chart; the others who have gained receive a red or blue star. When 
there is a failure to increase in weight an attempt is made to find the cause. 
Those children make the most satisfactory progress who are "free to 
gain, " that is those children who are not handicapped by physical de- 
fects. Consequently each child in a nutrition class should have had a 
thorough examination by a competent physician and his defects should 
be corrected as far as possible. As the cooperation of the parents is 
most essential they should be urged to attend the weekly meeting of the 
nutrition class. A nutrition class when successfully conducted not 
only impresses the parents and the community at large; it obtains the 
cooperation of the teachers without whose interest no nutrition work in 
the schools may be easily accomphshed. 

Who should conduct this demonstration? Obviously the ones best 
fitted by training. The New York Nutrition Council last winter formu- 
lated certain standards of training for nutrition workers. A perusal 
of these standards indicates that the home economics teacher, if she is 
a graduate of a good school, has included in her training more of these 
subjects than any other person on the school staff. Especially has she 
a knowledge of food values and the physiological factors that underlie 
good nutrition. Her deficiencies lie in her inexperience in working with 
the physician and in her lack of any training that would give her a 
medical viewpoint. The school nurse has had insufficient training in 
the chemistry of food and the principles of nutrition; her famiharity 
with medical procedure and her hospital experience with children, how- 
ever, are assets that should not be overlooked. Moreover if she has 
had contact with social agencies she is still more valuable. The separate 
training which the home economics teacher and the school nurse have 
received therefore, will, when united, constitute an effective machinery, 
and jointly they may conduct a nutrition class. The home economics 
teacher assumes the responsibility for the instruction in foods and 
for the correction of the dietary errors of the undernourished children; 
the school nurse, familiar with the physical defects, which the physician 
in his examination has discovered, auns to have these defects corrected. 
The nurse also explains to the child the desirability of cleanliness, of 
adequate sleep, and of play in the open air. 



1922] ACHIEVEMENTS OF HOME ECONOMICS 5 

Such a nutrition class may have immeasurable influence: the parents 
develop a greater concern for the nutrition of all children; the teachers 
bring a new vigor and purpose into their lessons on health. The educa- 
tional value of the school lunch as well as its nutritive properties are 
revealed. There is a demand for additional nutrition classes; in fact 
the home economics teacher who is interested and competent is in a 
position to portray the need for a full time nutrition specialist on the 
staff. Undoubtedly she is the one who will be chosen for the task. 



ACHIEVEMENTS OF HOME ECONOMICSi 

ABBY L. MARLATT 
Professor of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin 

In discussing the possible scope of this review a friend said, "One of 
the greatest achievements has been in the change of vocabulary." To 
change the vocabulary of our people takes long and persistent effort. 
Perhaps today we talk too much in chemical terms, neglecting the basic 
economic principles which should be emphasized. It may be that we 
are biased in our emphasis on vocabulary. We dwell too much on the 
need of making things. This is the least important of our problems. 
It is a question of choice rather than of making: we are getting away 
from the training in construction, and emphasizing more the training 
of judgment in choice of what is appropriate in its use. This training 
in judgment is beginning to be an essential factor in all discussions in 
regard to woman's education. Woman has ceased to be called a non- 
producer. When she spends the family income so that $1 coujits for 
$3, she is recognized as a producer of potential wealth. Our vocabulary 
today is being modified to include this thought. We can trace this to 
the teaching in the beginning of the selected few, until now, in popular 
writings, there has come about a choice of terms, and a better under- 
standing of the professional value of woman's work in the home. 

Shelter. We may have to give up the single houses which we believed 
were the ideal homes in the past. We have not yet reached a point where 

1 Extracts from an address delivered at the Recognition Service in honor of MitS Bevier 
at the University of Illinois. 



6 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

a man's home is not his castle, but if housing conditions do not improve 
we may be forced to transform into a boarding house our free rooms for 
those who have them not. The discussion of the housing budget in- 
volves questions of health and economic expenditure — how to make that 
which we can secure in the way of apartments adapt itself to the needs 
of the family while still maintaining the health of the family. 

Food. When it comes to food, today our vocabularv' is full of words 
which we repeat glibly. The newer vocabulary is becoming the patois 
of our daily press. Wliat we need to bring into our daily conscious- 
ness, yes, into our subconsciousness, is that automatic choice of all the 
things that we need to build up health. We are facing the situation 
when aU must go to a restaurant or to a cafeteria. It is cheaper to buy 
a ready prepared meal than it is to hire a maid, at the present expense, 
and dine at home. The projects in laboratory courses may be quite 
materially changed. We must teach how to buy, not the raw material 
only, but the material prepared for immediate service. The cafeteria 
must develop into the tj^e which caters to the family group by pro^•id- 
ing alcove dining rooms. It is being tried with success in some of our 
modern restaurants. The home table is not only disappearing, but 
has, for many of us, disappeared. We must have some other family 
center for our training of the child in the manners of the gentle bred. 

Throughout the country we have estabhshed a demand for a four- 
year trained dietitian with the interne period of probation similar to 
that required for the physician. The girl today who elects her major 
in nutrition must plan for her period of practice in an approved hospital 
before she can accept a position of trust in planning the diets of patients. 

The school feeding clinics have come in ver^' largely through the 
cooperation of the physician and the trained food woman. In many 
cities these clinics are organized by a home economics instructor, co- 
operating with the physician in the health centers. In many of our 
universities, the senior students are the ones who do the teaching in 
these feeding chnics. They are also assisting the nurse and the physician 
in the welfare clinics. We are swinging over to the Chinese point of 
N-iew — that physicians are paid when the family is well. Prevention is 
our great problem. It is not a question of medicine so much as the 
right amount of food, the right type of shelter and the right proportion 
of rest and sleep. 

We have put our resident dietitian in hotels — a graduate of the Uni- 
versity of Illinois is a pioneer. In the family hotel, the resident nurse, 
the resident physician, and the resident dietitian are a trium\drate. 



1922] ACHIEVEMENTS OF HOME ECONOMICS 7 

The needs of the people are met through a systematic study of the 
world supply of food, clothing, and shelter. We must face our issue 
as a sociaUzed, world-movement project. In early times they laughed 
at our food laboratory. But we had the nugget of the new educational 
ideal, which is that the pupil must have in mind the solving of a definite 
project. We are getting away from the old educational method of 
teaching separate steps before we are allowed to solve the problem. 
For general educational purposes we must take the problem as we find 
it and solve it in the way which will serve best the individual, the family, 
and the community. Part-time schools under the the Smith-Hughes laws 
have met, to a large extent, the needs of many girls, and have equipped 
them to estabhsh their own homes. The home economics extension 
work imder Federal and State efi'ort has swept our entire country. 
State speciaHsts, who can give to the mature woman the data that she 
needs to make her problems easy of solution, are being sent out. 

During the war the need for conservation was eminent. Mr. Hoover 
called in the group of people that seemed to him fitted to do the work 
of teaching us to save so that we could give. There was an appeal to 
the home economics group to put over the program in their own locah- 
ties. They carried the message so well that all who need that type of 
service which calls for the knowledge of how to help meet the needs 
of the country are now appeaUng to the home economics trained woman. 

In the health movement for the future mother and child, the work in 
home economics is fundamental. We have come to the point where 
we can say to the young girl that the most wonderful thing in her power 
is to choose the inheritance that she will pass on. We must push it 
so far that the choice of the good, so far as an inheritance is concerned, 
becomes automatic; that is, so that choice reacts sub-consciously. The 
eugenic teaching should be of the quaHty that gives the individual the 
sense of responsibility. The question of the future mother and the 
future child should be such that the girls discuss it as one discusses the 
highest experience in the reUgious world. In home economics phases 
of the work it has been so taught. We have been sending through our 
country people who have speciahzed in this work. We beheve that the 
home economics people are the ones who should pass it on. 

Social welfare work. There is need for close cooperation between the 
homiC economics teaching and the social welfare worker. The colleges 
have courses in social economics, but the social worker, who goes out 
without some intensive study of how to meet the woman's problems 
and to know the child's nutritional condition, is assuming a great re- 



8 THE JOTIRKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

sponsibility. More home economics women must enter this type of 
work. Some of our people are doing this work and doing it extremely 
well. 

Research. One of the newer lines of work in home economics is our 
research work. It has reached a high point through the development 
of the studies in nutrition, in educational tests, in commercial processes, 
in retail salesmanships. 

The University of Iowa has made a great step forward. There, in 
its child welfare station, a home economics worker is in charge of the 
nutrition of children. In the medical college there is a chair held by 
a nutrition woman, a former professor of home economics at Illinois. 
The home economics work began in the kitchen; now it is recognized 
as of full professorial rank in the school of medicine. Medicine began 
in the barber shop. Which can call the origin of the other in question? 

Some man has said, "The work of the physician is to eliminate him- 
self." We are also teaching our people to live sanely without us. It 
is preventive standards that we need. We must put education on the 
positive bases, making health education the foundation in the broadest 
sense. We must train the woman to be the wise chooser, and the wise 
buyer. This achievement needs to be handled with every great wisdom 
so that business may cooperate in the movement. We must teach the 
sales people to make their quick turnover count for the increased profit. 
Men and women have learned not to buy when the price is high. We 
must meet the trade halfway and teach that bujing should be equalized 
so that returns are steady, and thus remedy the present economic con- 
dition that is serious. 

The last and most recent achievement is carrying home economics 
teaching into the world movement. In Constantinople, our Mrs. 
Norton, a home economics woman, is being sent by all of us to aid in 
teaching the girls of the Balkans, Turkey, and Armenia. She is to 
bring into the lives of the oriental people the standards of the home 
economics home which they have not. It is an attempt to respond to 
the call for occidental standards in the oriental countries. We have 
had before this, in one of the smaller states in India, one of our home 
economics teachers establishing schools and developing the work for 
the woman in that particular state. There are unanswered appeals 
from Japan and China and Australia for home economics women to 
come over and help them. It is the beginning of the world movement. 



1922] DIGESTIBILITY OF ROLLED OATS 9 

SOME EXPERIMENTS ON THE DIGESTIBILITY OF ROLLED 
OATS PREPARED IN VARIOUS WAYS' 

M.ARY SW.ARTZ ROSE 
Department of Nutrition, Teachers College, Columbia University 

During the war, the program of wheat conservation raised anew ques- 
tions in regard to the best methods of preparing rolled oats for human 
consumption. The insistence upon long hours for the cooking of cere- 
als, and especially oats, has been a drawback in the use of such food 
materials. It has been clearly shown by Langworthy- and others that 
cooking is not necessary for the digestion of some kinds of pure starch, 
but the question still remains as to whether short cooking by various 
processes insures such changes in the starch or in the mechanical con- 
dirion of the food under consideration as to make its utilization rapid and 
complete. 

Daniels and Strickler^ have shown that cooked starch grains which 
have microscopically all the characteristics of raw starch may be well 
digested, though they hold the opinion that raw starch in pastry, for 
example, may be a cause of indigestion. A good criterion for the digesti- 
bility of starch in food does not seem fully established. 

The following studies include oatmeal in the form of mush, wafers, 
muffins, and macaroons. The subjects were all healthy young women, 
and the oatmeal preparation was in each case made a part of a simple 
mixed diet taken uniformly throughout the experimental period. The 
food was all analyzed in the laboratory, and feces examined for protein 
and carbohydrate, sometimes fat, nitrogen being determined by the 
Kjeldahl method, and carbohydrate in feces by hydrolyzing ten-gram 
samples of dried feces two hours with 200 cc. of 2 per cent hydrochloric 
acid solution, (using a reflux condenser), making up to 250 cc, filtering, 
and determining glucose by Allihn's method. 

Little difference in the carbohydrate utilization was found in the 
various experiments. Since the fat in oatmeal is almost negligible in a 
mixed diet, it was not usually studied. The greatest differences were 
found in the coefficients of digestibility of the protein. This is in har- 
mony with observations made by Harcourt and Fulmer^ that the absorp- 

' Tlie data of tliese experiments were secured at various times by different students working 
in the Nutrition Laboratory. 

^Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1920, 42: 27. 

'Journal of Home Economics, 1917, 9: 109. 

* Ontario Department of Agriculture Bulletin 162 (1907). 



10 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



tion of the protein of rolled oats was somewhat greater when the food 
had been subjected to long cooking, the coefficients of digestibihty 
being from two to five per cent higher when the oatmeal was cooked 
eight hours as compared ^\^th that cooked twenty minutes. The co- 
efficients for protein and carbohydrate found in the experiments which 
follow are given in the table below. 

Coefficients of digestibility for diets containing rolled oats prepared in various ways 



I 
II 

III 

IV 

V 

VI 

VII 

VIII 

IX 

X 

XI 

XII 



METHOD OF PREPARATION 



Mush cooked over night in fireless cooker 
IMush cooked over night in fireless cooker 

!Mush boiled 10 minutes 

Mush boiled 10 minutes 

Wafers, commercial 

Wafers, homemade 

MufEns 

Macaroons with corn sjTup 

Macaroons ivith corn s>Tup 

Alacaroons with corn syrup 

Macaroons with sugar 

Macaroons with sugar 



PROTEIN 


93.9 


94.8 


91.9 


91.2 


87.8 


83.9 


87.6 


91.1 


92.7 


91.3 


90.6 


91.8 



99.6 
99.8 
99.5 
99.6 
99.9 
99.0 
99.6 
99.2 
99.9 
99.8 
99.3 
100.0 



Report of E>a>ERiMENTS 



I. OATMEAL MTJSH 

Two young women served as subjects. The time was divided into a fore period of three 
days in which there was added to a simple mi.xed diet oatmeal mush made from 100 grams 
of dry rolled oats cooked over night in a fireless cooker. The amount of water in each case 
was uniform and the food was cooked from 6:00 P.il. to 7:30 A.M. in the cooker after having 
been boiled over the flame for ten minutes. The second period also consisted of three days, 
during which tlie amount of oatmea! was the same, but cooked only by boiling for ten minutes. 

Besides the oatmeal mush the diet consisted of a small amount of lean round of beef 
(ground in a food chopper), milk, grape and orange juice half and half, white bread and 
butter, to make a dietary suited to each individual's requirement. The feces were marked 
off for each period by carmine. The results are shovvn in the following table. 

Daily intake and output and coefficients of digestibility 







I. LONG 


COOKING 




U. SHORT COOKING 




Prottin 


Carbohydrate 


Protein 


Carbohydrate 




J.W. 


R.E. 


J. W. 


R.E. 


J.W. 


R. E. 


J. W. 


R.E. 




97.6 
5.9 

93.9 


59.1 
3.0 

94.8 


246.0 
0.8 

99.6 


199.0 
1.0 

99.8 


97.6 
7.8 

91.9 


59.7 
5.3 

91.2 


246.0 
1.0 

99.5 


210 


Loss in feces, grams 

Coefficients of digestibility for 
ration 


0.7 
99.6 



1922] 



DIGESTIBILITY OF ROLLED OATS 



11 



If an allowance of 4 per cent for loss on the protein of the diet exclusive of oatmeal be 
made, the losses of oatmeal protein appear greater in the period of short cooking by ten 
and thirteen per cent respectively for the two subjects. These losses are greater than those 
similarly calculated by Harcourt and Fulmer, probably because the time of cooking was only 
half as long. It must be remembered that these experiments show notliing of the rate of 
digestion, which is an important factor where ease is concerned. According to Snyder* in 
beaker experiments oatmeal cooked for half an hour goes into solution much less quickly 
than oatmeal cooked for four hours. In these two experiments, however, no discomfort or 
signs of fermentation could be noted with the oatmeal cooked only ten minutes, but undoubt- 
edly texture and flavor were much improved by the longer cooking. 



n. OATME.\L W.\JERS 

Paralleling the above experiments, a third subject took in the first period commercial 
oatmeal wafers, in amounts estimated to yield about 100 grams of dry rolled oats per day, 
and in the second period similar wafers made in the laboratory with rolled oats ground in 
a food chopper.' The results are summarized below. 

Daily intake and oulpiil and coefficients of digestibility 



Intake, grams 

Ixjss in feces, grams 

Coefficients of digestibility for ration 



COUUERaAL WAFERS 



63.3 

7.8 

87. S 



178.0 

1.0 

99.9 



HOiIE\L\J>E WAFERS 



63.6 
10.2 
83.9 



178.0 

1.0 

99.0 



In this case, if the same assumpdon of a loss of 4 per cent on the protein of the other 
foods be made, the coefiicients for the oatmeal alone fall to 65 and SO per cent respectively. 
At any rate, the oatmeal in this form was the least well utilized of any in the series, if judged 
by the protein absorption. 

in. OATME.\L injFFINS 

This experiment was undertaken partly to study the efficiency of oat protein in the human 
dietary, and the muSins were accordingly made with more water and less milk than ordinarily 
used, the recipe being as follows: 

Recipe for oatmeal muffins 

Rolled Oats 2 cups Fat 2 tablespoons 

Water 1 cup Flour 1 cup 

Milk J cup Baking powder 4 teaspoons 

Egg 1 Salt 1 teaspoon 

Sugar 2 tablespoons 

The milk and water were poured boiling hot over the rolled oats and the mixture was 
allowed to stand one-half hour before the other ingredients were added. 

The daily diet consisted of 16.5 grams of rolled oats (dry weight) plus milk, flour, egg, but- 
ter, apples, and sugar to make a total of 45 grams of protein, 94 of fat and 283 of carbohydrate, 
8.3 per cent of the total calories being derived from protein, and the rolled oats contributing 
60 per cent of the total protein. 

' Minnesota Experiment Station Bulletin 74 (cited by Harcourt and Fulmer). 
'Using the recipe for Scotch wafers, Boston Cooking School Cook Book (Farmer). 



12 



THE JOTTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



The experiment lasted twelve days. Feces were collected and combined in four-day 
periods for analysis. The subject was in nitrogen equilibrium after the first day, the ration 
yielding 0.81 gram of protein per kilogram of body weight. The nitrogen in the feces for 
each of tlie three periods was as follows: Days 1^, 1.01 gms. per day; days 5-8, 0.88 gm. 
per day; days 9-12, 0.64 gm. per day. 

From these figures it is clear that the continued use of the muffins did not result in any 
less good digestion. Since this work was done, Sherman and Winters' have shown that nitro- 
gen equilibrium can be maintained in the human adult on 0.5 gram of protein per kilogram 
per day when 90 per cent of the protein of the diet is furnished by oats, thus demonstrating 
the efficiency of this protein when supplemented by a very small amount of milk. 

On this ration the daily intake and output and coefiicients of digestibility were found to 
be as follows: 



Intake, grams per day 

Loss in feces, grams per day 

Coefiicients of digestibility of ration 



PROTEIN 


FAT 


45.3 

5.6 

87.6 


94.0 

3.6 

96.2 



283.0 

1.0 

99.6 



Calculating tlie coefficient of digestibility of protein for oatmeal alone, with an allowance 
of 4 per cent loss on the other foods, gives 92 per cent. It seems fairer, however, to 
consider the coefficient of the ration as a whole in these cases, inasmuch as the presence of 
the oatmeal would tend to >iffect the coefficients of all the foodstuffs involved on account of 
the influence of the cellulose. 

rV'. OATlIE.\L M.A.C.AROONS 

Since oatmeal macaroons are made OTthout the addition of fluid and are cooked but a 
short time, it seemed likely that they would prove to be the least well utilized form of rolled 
oats, but such was not the case. The first experiments were made during the period of sugar 
shortage of the war, and corn sjniip was used instead of sugar, with the result that the maca- 
roons were sticky and required a great deal of masdcation. Consequently, when these 
experiments showed surprisingly good utilization of the oats, they were repeated using sugar, 
according to the usual recipe (3 eggs, IJ cups sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 cups rolled oats, 
yielding 550 grams of baked macaroons). 





DIET, 


PERIOD I 




DAILY INTAKE 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 




Meat.. 
Bread. 
Rice». 

Sugar. 
Milk.. 


grams 

66 

257 

114 

52 

732 


grams 

71.3 


68.0 


grams 

310.0 




DAILY OUTPUT IN FECES 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


E.H. 


Erams 

7.4 


3.7 


grams 

1.7 




COEF 






Butter 


39 


PICIENTS OF DIGESTIBILITV 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 




89.7 


94.6 


99.5 



' Journal of Biological Chemistry, 1919, 39:53. 

8 Dry weight. 



19221 



DIGESTIBILITY OF ROLLED OATS 



13 



E.H. 



DIET, PERIOD n 



Meat 110 

Bread 117 

Macaroons . . . 382 

Milk 578 

Butter 25 



Srams 

90.5 



grams 

8.1 



DAILY INTAKE 



DAILY OUTPUT IN FECES 



gToms 

2.0 



COEFFICIENTS OF DIGESTIBILITY 



93.9 







Summary of experiments v. 


ith oatmeal 


macaroons 








PERIOD 


COEFFICIENTS OF DIGESTrniLITY 


GAINS ANE 


LOSSES IN MACAROON 
PERIOD (ll) 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drate 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drate 


E.H. 1 


I 
11 


89.7 
91.1 


94.6 
93.9 


99.5 
99.2 


+ 1.4 


-0.7 


-0.3 


...{ 


I 

n 


84.9 
92.7 


86.8 
93.1 


100.0 
100.0 


+ 7.8 


+ 6.3 


0.0 


E.W. 1 


I 
II 


91.1 
91.3 


94.1 
94,2 


98.3 
99.8 


+0.2 


+0.1 


+ 1.5 


H.C. 1 


I 
II 


89.2 
90 6 


Not deter- 
mined 


99.1 
99.3 


+ 1.4 




+0.2 


..s.( 


I 
II 


94.7 
91.8 


Not deter- 
mined 


100.0 
100.0 


-2.9 




0.0 



The time was divided into periods of three days each, and the diet was uniform for each 
period. In the first period the foods were lean chopped beef, rice, sugar, milk, bread and 
butter. In the second period macaroons were substituted for the rice and bread. The 
results of one of the five experiments are given in detail above, followed by a summary of 
the series. 

It is evident from the above figures that the substitution of between two and four hundred 
grams of oatmeal macaroons per day for calorically equivalent amounts of rice or rice and 
bread did not decrease the coefficients of digestibility of any of the foodstuffs except in one 



14 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



subject, nor did the change from a sticky macaroon made with corn syrup to a crisp one made 
with sugar (the last two cases) make any marked difference. The average coeiScients of 
digestibility for the macaroon diet as compared with the bread and rice diet are as follows: 

Average coefficients of digeslibilily 



I (bread and rice diet) 

II (macaroon diet) 

Difference in favor of macaroons 



89.9 

91.5 

1.6 



91.8 

93.7 

1.9 



99.6 
99.7 
0.1 



In SO far as non-appearance in the feces can be taken as a criterion, 
rolled oats is a very digestible food, whether cooked a long or a short 
time in the home. The rolled oats used was loose rolled oats, bought 
at a large market, and not a fancy, specially prepared product. Differ- 
ences in preparation affect the apparent utilization of protein more than 
of carbohydrate. The protein of oatmeal wafers was less weU utiHzed 
than that of oatmeal macaroons. This might possibly be explained 
by the greater amount of mastication induced by the macaroons. Dif- 
ferences in length of time in cooking oatmeal mush affect rate rather 
than completeness of digestion, and also affect palatability, as influenced 
by flavor and texture. 



FACTORS INFLUENCING NUTRITION WORK AMONG 
ITALIANS' 

LUCY H. GILLETT 
New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor 

We have been studying the factors that seem to be detrimental to 
good nutrition in a group of Itahans corresponding to the peasants 
in their own country. So far as I know we have very little evidence 
that the better class of Italians need attention more than the better 
class of Americans. But because the Italians that come to our country 
and live in crowded districts are so in need of help it seems like time 



' Read at the meeting of the New York Nutrition Council, March 7, 1921. 



1922] NUTRITION WORK AMONG ITALIANS 15 

well spent to gather together such information as relates to their par- 
ticular problem. It must be admitted at the outset, however, that 
the economic factor plays a very prominent part in the whole problem, 
and, while this makes the problem more comphcated, many conditions 
may be improved through education. 

In considering the family life of Itahans we are impressed at once 
with the size of the families. It is not unusual to find families with 
12 children and often they number as many as 18 or 20, and seldom less 
than 5 or 6 unless the family is just begun. Few day laborers can earn 
enough to provide the necessities of life for such large families. Although 
the older ones are able to work before the younger ones arrive, there 
are still too many to be maintained in good health through the efforts of 
one pair of hands. To help out financially the women work but the 
children suffer thereby. Much of this supplementary work is done in 
the home through the making of flowers for hats, or finishing on coats 
and trousers. The remuneration at best for this work is small and the 
natural desire to earn the maximum results in a neglect of the home 
nad the children. The children eat irregularly. Their midday meal 
frequently consists of bread eaten on the street. The younger children 
remaining at home crawl about dirty floors in poorly ventilated, sun- 
less rooms with very little attention. The peasant women have been 
in the habit of working in the fields and are therefore not accustomed 
to house work. When they come to this country they go to the factory 
and often marry at the age of 16 or 18. This has given them little 
opportunity to become homemakers. 

Where there are such large families, Hving quarters are congested. 
They economize space by sleeping across the bed (5 or 6 in a bed) — or 
two or three with heads at the top and two or three with heads at the 
foot of the bed. The sleeping rooms in these houses are often on the 
airshaft with one window large enough to admit only as much fresh air 
as one person needs. In winter they do not have their windows open 
at night. In one family of ten the four older children occupied a three- 
quarter bed in a small dark room, the parents and three younger children 
slept in a bed made up each night in the living-room, and an uncle slept 
in another small bed. The mother said she could not open the windows 
at night as the children slept in their underclothes with only two sheets 
over them — all the bedclothes she had. Boarders or lodgers are not 
uncommon in such homes. Under such conditions it is difficult for 
children to get to bed early or for them to get as much sleep as they need. 
Indeed we are beginning to wonder if as much responsibility for mal- 



16 THE joiTEiNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

nutrition in the congested districts may not be put upon the sleeping 
conditions as on the food itself. If the body has not been property 
rested there is every reason to believe that the system cannot make 
proper use of the food that is taken into it. If the body does not re- 
ceive fresh air to oxidize food, the food is of little value. 

But in spite of the neglect of the home, there are many native traits 
that give good promise for rapid development under proper guidance. 
The attempt to decorate their houses may result in cluttered, unsani- 
tary surroundings, difficult to keep clean, but this is probably due to 
an untrained artistic temperament that could easily be trained to produce 
attractive, healthful homes. The average Italian family has good clean 
beds. The average woman does beautiful needlework. The women 
who are at home wash their clothes frequently, and we marvel at their 
whiteness. These customs must spring from a real sanitary instinct 
which it should not be difficult to call into activity along other lines. 

These people are illiterate, and the material telling them how to do 
things, material that would stimulate them to a sense of responsibility, 
is not within their reach. They have few books or magazines. They 
have so few contacts vnth the outside world that they do not know what 
is going on. They do not appreciate this wave of enthusiasm that is 
sweeping the land in the interest of child welfare. As with most labor- 
ing classes, the man that earns the money for their daily bread must 
have the best there is so that he may keep in good condition. They 
frequently say, "Oh my man must have meat because he works, but the 
children, they can eat anything. " The welfare of the children is, there- 
fore, subordinate and they are unconsciously neglected. 

Another very striking characteristic of the Italian people is their 
emotional nature which seems especially to come to the front at meal- 
time. This may be because child discipline, weak in so many families of 
all nationalties and all classes of people, is lacking to a large extent at 
mealtime. WTien the children are all together, the aggravations are prob- 
ably in direct proportion to the number of children, and the emotional 
nature is overstimulated, but, whatever the cause, a family of Italian 
children seldom eats its meals in peace. Someone is nagging, scolding, 
or, in their phraseology, someone is "yeUing" at them all the time. 
We are appreciating more and more the influence of child discipline on 
the amount of defective nutrition among children of aU nationahties. 

We are sorry to acknowledge that we frequently attribute a failure 
to gain physically to lack of control by the parents and the tension that 
accompanies a high-strung atmosphere. One boy who was in such an 



1922] KUTRITION WORK AMONG ITALIANS 17 

atmosphere at school would wake up at night screaming, thinking that 
his teacher was hitting him. Through a bit of cooperation that was 
obtained at home he was the first of a group to gain in weight. The 
teacher's attitude toward him changed as she held him up to the rest 
of the school as an example. The mother said that he began to sleep 
more quietly and the improvement in him was steady from that 
time on. The nutrition problem is not all a question of food. We 
must find out what is preventing even the right food from doing good 
work. We must make the conditions possible for good nutrition. Fresh 
air, exercise, rest, sleep, and congenial surroundings must all be consid- 
ered as much a part of the nutritional problem as the food itself. 

As to dietary habits, there are good qualities in the diet of the better 
class of Italians in this country, and among all Italians in their own 
country, but when they have to economize they frequently economize 
in the wrong direction. In this they are not unique. Every peasant 
in Italy has his own goat or else his neighbors have such a supply that 
he is able to get milk at a very low price. The price of milk in this 
country seems excessive, and, not knowing its food value, a spirit of 
economy prompts them to use coffee instead. Coffee is comparatively 
cheap here but expensive in Italy. When milk is used, a spirit of thrift 
prompts them to boil the milk to keep it from souring in summer. 

A taste for sweets is also acquired in this country. The children 
learn from American children to spend their pennies for candy at the 
comer stands. They have not been accustomed to candy in Italy, 
neither do they have it at home, but they buy it on the street corners to 
eat between meals. One man said, "America, no good — too much 
candy." No milk, and too much coffee and candy are the greatest 
factors of the nutritional problem of the malnourished Italian children. 

Cheese is used freely but during the last few years, when Italian 
cheese was $1.50 a pound, they preferred to use less rather than to 
substitute American cheese at 50 cents. They could not see that $1.50 
spent for American cheese would buy three times as much nourishment. 

As far as I can find out, very few root vegetables are used even among 
the better class of Italians. Potatoes are not used so abundantly as 
with us. When used they are too frequently fried. However, excel- 
lent vegetable combinations, from a dietetic point of view, such as es- 
carol and rice, greens and beans, potatoes and cabbage or spinach are 
used. 

They use green vegetables and tomatoes freely. These have probably 
been their salvation in supplying vitamines ordinarily obtained in milk, 



18 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

but in cases of economy they use the green vegetables for flavor just as 
they use their Italian cheese in preference to our American cheese, thus 
running the risk of a deficiency of both iron and \'itamines. Oil is used 
in place of butter, but when green vegetables are used abundantly there 
is perhaps less danger of vitamine deficiency from this habit than we 
have been led to beheve. There is danger when oil is used to the 
exclusion of butter in a diet low in both milk and green vegetables. 

The use of macaroni is too well known to need discussion. It may 
be and probably is used to excess — especially when used to the exclusion 
of coarse cereals. In Italy much dark bread made of whole wheat is 
used. Here only refined flours are used. There is a national preju- 
dice against oatmeal but experience has shown us that it is only a matter 
of time before it will be generally adopted. 

The children eat very little meat. Most of the meat prepared for 
the whole family is made into stews, or ground and mixed with macaroni 
and tomato sauce, so that the quantity eaten by the children is compara- 
tively small. Eggs are more abundantly used for the children than 
meat, and are often used to excess. The dessert of the Italians is fre- 
quently fruit. This is an improvement over the desserts that are seen 
on the tables of our own well educated people. 

Summarizing the dietary habits, the most desirable features are the 
use of green vegetables and fruit and very little meat for the children. 
Foods that should be encouraged are milk, coarse cereals, root vegetables 
and potatoes, while the things to be eliminated are candy between meals 
and coffee. Calories are usually adequate. They are supplied through 
oil and macaroni ; protein is probably sufiicient for the adults as provided 
in eggs, meat, cheese, and beans, but there may be a question whether 
or not the children get enough protein without milk, or whether eggs 
and beans, wliich are often their chief source of protein, supply 
enough protein in the most desirable form. Because of the scarcity of 
milk, calcium is probably deficient unless green vegetables are used in 
very large quantities. If green vegetables are used in abundance, there 
is also little danger of a deficiency of iron or of the fat-soluble vitamine, 
but in famihes where economy is a factor, and where green vegetables 
are used for flavoring, there is danger that iron may be inadequate. 
Unless milk and butter are used freely, and in all probabihty they will 
not be if economy has caused a scarcity of vegetables, the fat soluble 
vitamine may be deficient also. Tomatoes and fruit provide antiscor- 
butic qualities. WTien, as in so many homes, we find no root vegetables 
or whole grains used, we are fearful that the children are not getting 
sufficient water soluble vitamine. 



1922J XUTRITION WORK AMONG ITALIANS 19 

Many people have been sceptical about changing the food habits of 
various nationalities. We see no reason why the habits should be 
changed except in so far as to make them consistent wath health, and 
perhaps of greater convenience to the people. It may be difBcult for 
them to get in our markets the foods to which they have been accus- 
tomed, and they, not knowing how to substitute, will provide a diet 
far removed from what the children need. We believe it possible to 
build upon the good already in the diet so that the new foods will be 
appreciated and accepted. We know that the children ask for Ameri- 
can foods as soon as they begin to eat away from home — hence we do 
not hesitate to introduce them as fast as they will be accepted. 

These people are laboring with great handicaps. They have families 
larger than they can support, and mothers work to supplement the wages; 
they live in congested unsanitary quarters, with inadequate sleeping 
accommodations, they are ignorant of the importance of the care of the 
child if he would become a strong man, they are emotional by nature, 
they have few contacts or little chance to learn, they have come to this 
countrj^ from a land where milk, vegetables, fruit, and coarse bread are 
abundant and cheap. 

We know that education in the simple rules of health is ha\'ing its 
effect. If the economic status could be overcome, many of the other 
unfavorable conditions would right themselves, but shall we wait for 
that time? Can we not bring about much through education? Prob- 
ably the housing condition is responsible for many of these other con- 
ditions. It is the consensus of opinion of those working in and repre- 
senting the Community House in the Italian district, on Mott Street^ 
that, if a block could be torn down and a new sanitary one built on its 
site and financed partly or wholly by the neighborhood, it would be the 
dawning of a new day for that district. With housing improved, educa- 
tion will overcome ignorance, the people will demand better Hving condi- 
tions, they will be stimulated to make greater efforts, and responsibility 
will develop a community conscience, so necessary to the permanency 
of any work. Even though the housing cannot be remedied immediately, 
educarion will help them to make the best of what they have. 



20 THE joupjVAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

PROGRESS REPORT ON THE PETTICOAT TEST 

Probably no piece of work carried on by the Committee on the Standard- 
ization of Textile Fabrics has created more interest among home enonomics 
women and others than the wearing test for petticoat silks, undertaken to shed 
some light on specifications that would produce fabrics insuring a minimum 
standard of wear for silk underskirts.' 

Petticoat silks were selected partly because the silk underskirt is an impor- 
tant and comparatively expensive item in the wardrobe of the American 
business and professional woman, partly because silks suitable for this use 
are more or less suitable for coat linings, and partly because, for some time 
before the test was outlined, women all over the country had been complaining 
of the poor wearing qualities of silk fabrics, especially those used in ready- 
to-wear petticoats. 

The large scale wearing test planned by the Committee, in which about 
eight hundred petticoats were made up after the same model from three 
experimental taffetas and three experimental messalines, was designed to 
supplement the laboratory studies that were to be made on the structure of the 
silk, its tensile strength and endurance. The latter is tested on the new 
abrasion rubbing apparatus that is being set up in the textile laboratory of the 
Bureau of Standards in Washington. Manufacturers and others rightly claim 
that standard laboratory tests do not and cannot tell us the whole story of the 
stresses, strains, and other deteriorating influences to which fabrics are sub- 
jected in actual wear. The Committee's aim was to conduct this test on a 
large enough scale to enable it to place beside the story of the laboratory a 
reliable endurance record of each silk, based on the actual wear by a large 
number of persons under varied conditions. 

PROCEDURE 

This test has been under way since June first, 1920. In .^pril 1921, notices were sent to 
the earliest purchasers asking them to send in wearing records, together with the worn skirts 
if these had reached the point of discarding. The present paper is a progress report based 
on the first one hundred and fifty wearing records turned in. We are anxious to collect as 
many other records and as many of the discarded skirts as possible, so that within the next 
few months we may present a final and comprehensive report of the whole test. 

' Readers interested in the work of the Committee on tlie Standardization of Textile 
Fabrics are referred to earlier articles in the issues of the Journal: 
Some Suggestions from the Textile Section. September 1919, pp. 388-392. 
Recent Work of the Committee on the Standardization of Textiles. March 1920, pp. 101- 

109. 
Petticoat Lane to Prosperity. May 1920, p. 223. 
Plans for Textile Research under the National Research Council. September 1921, pp. 

400-401. 
Report of the Committee on the Standardization of Textile Fabrics. September 1921, pp. 

434-435. 



1922J 



PROGRESS REPORT ON THE PETTICOAT TEST 



21 



Specifications and data from analyses 





SQUARE 


APPR0XIM.4TE 

NUMBER THREADS 

PER 

ENGLISH INCH 


WEIGHTING 


DYE 




Warp 


Filling 


Warp 


Filling 






ounces 






ounces 


ounces 




Test A 

Test B 

Teste 


1.5 
1.2 
1.5 


205 
205 
245 


105 

120 
120 


Bright, 18-20 
Bright, 14-16 
Bright, 14-16 


Souple, 22-24 
Bright, 14-16 
Bright, 14-16 


Metallic 
Best vegetable 
Best vegetable 


Tafeta 

Test A 

TestB 

Test e 


1.8 
1.3 
1.5 


200 
200 
224 


101 
107 
104 


Bright, 16-18 
Bright, 14-16 
Bright, 14-16 


Bright, 16-18 
Bright, 14-16 
Bright, 14-16 


Metallic 
Best vegetable 
Best vegetable 



Tests B and C in each case were pure dye silk; test A carried some weighting. 

For both messaline and taffeta. A, B, and C, the warp was 2 thread organzine (13-15 
deniers); the filling in A and B was 3 thread tram (13-15 deniers), and in C, 4 thread tram 
(13-15 deniers). 

Extremes selected from reports 



TEST 


DAYS OF WEAR 


PRESENT 
CONDITION 


WEAR GIVEN 


WEIGHT 
WEARER 






Whole 


Part 




Messaline 

Teste... 


240 





Fair 


Good 


165 


Very hard wear for nearly 
eight months 




60 





Gone 


Poor 




"Disappointed" 


Test_B... 


198 


28 




Good 


128 


Very hard wear; did not try to 
save it in any way 




52 





Gone 


Poor 




Worn almost constantly on 
trip. Harder on silk skirts 
than most persons 


Test A... 


194 





Gone 


Medium 


135 


Wore at waist line under stiff 
skirt belt end first month. 
Otherwise, better service 
than any messaline skirt I 
have ever had 




63 


14 


Almost 
gone 


Poor 


133 


Can still be mended 


Taffeta 














Teste... 


148 


4 








Showed signs of wear first 
month 




50 




Bad 


Poor 


118 


In 19 days cut down crease 
and down stitching and 
cording 


TestB... 


28 


180 


Wearable 


Poor 




Wearing on cords, knees, back 




34 




Badly 
worn 


Poor 




Split down front after 25 days 


Test A... 


150 




Gone 










49 




Breaking 


Medium 




Breaking at cords, ruffie, hips 



22 THE jotTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The experimental silks were manufactured for the Committee by the Stehli Silks Corpora- 
tion of New York City. Tafleta and messaline were selected because they are perennial 
favorites for petticoats and are also quite generally used for coat linings. The three qualities 
selected were designated as Test A, Test B, and Test C, respectively. Test A was to be 
slightly weighted, Tests B and C were to be so-called pure-dye silks. The color throughout 
the whole order of eighteen hundred yards was changeable navy blue and green. 

The specifications were worked out by jMrs. Mary Schenck Woolman and Mrs. Ellen B. 
jMcGowan for the Committee in conference with E. M. Barlow, general manager of the 
Stehli Silks Corporation. 

The table on the preceding page combines these specifications witli further data compiled 
from analyses of the silks by Elizabeth Weirick, of the Sears, Roebuck & Co. testing 
laboratories. 

The prevailing slender silhouette and the high price of raw silk were contributing factors 
in determining that the silks should be fine and comparatively light in weight. Stiff "rustly" 
skirts were not in demand when many women were wearing "pettibockers" and some were 
dispensing with underskirts altogether. 

Mr. Barlow, General Manager for Stehli, gave generously of his time and interest in 
advising with the Committee, and made us the most advantageous prices possible. His 
mill people took a personal interest in the actual manufacture. Samples of the test silks 
were exhibited by the Stehlis at the International Silk Show in New York City last fall. 

A skirt manufacturer made up the petticoats and maUed them out on order of the manager 
of petticoat sales. The design tentatively selected was submitted to one of the clothing 
construction classes at Teachers College for suggestion and criticism. The model finally 
ordered was a four gored skirt with elastic waist band, closing with a snap in the back. It 
had a scant bias ruiBe 10 inches deep, trimmed with serpentine tucks. At the foot of this 
ruffle was set a three-inch knife pleated ruflJe, over a dust ruffle. In the earlier deliveries 
the pleated ruffle was stitched with several rows of ornamental stitching, and the tucks were 
corded. Neither the stitching nor the cording wore well however, and were eliminated 
from the later shipments. 

A tabulation has been made from 150 returned records. The extremes for each of the six 
test silks are selected from it and presented on the preceding page to show the variation in 
the amount of wear secured by different people from the same kind of skirt. 

DISCUSSION 

The returns prove emphatically that the personal equation is a leading 
factor in the endurance of silk; that is, that bodily excretions or acid exhalations 
even when not in direct contact with silk may be an agent for destruction 
greater in some cases than in others; that different activities and habits of 
movement, the type of garment worn over and under the skirt, and the size 
and shape of the wearer are factors as important as picks and ends and weight- 
ing. The very long corset and the extremely sheer underwear commonly 
worn in these days, together with the narrow skirts, make the petticoat test 
a severe ordeal for anv silk fabric. 

The design and dimensions of the skirts were commented on by several 
wearers. The fineness and sheerness of the silk, demanded by the modern 
style of skirt, have already been mentioned. To adapt itself to the outer 
skirt the petticoat design was characterized by lack of fullness. The slightly 
gored back breadth had a tendency to cause tension and consequent splitting 



1922] CALL OF THE BUSINESS WORLD FOR TRAINED WORKERS 23 

or tearing over the knees and at the back. The heavy cord in the ruffle, 
discarded in the later skirts, proved to be a weak point in construction. 

The tabulations quoted were made from the returns first received, which 
naturally included a large proportion of the skirts worn out first. Moreover, 
the period of wear included the summer or early fall months in many cases, 
and, in the report as to the kind of wear, vacation traveling was often specified. 
The variations point to the importance of a large number of records in order 
to make some fairly reliable estimate of the demands of the "mean" (in the 
arithmetical sense) business and professional woman. We must secure more 
records if we are to attempt to fix a minimum standard of wear. 

The committee feels that much valuable information is being gained from 
this petticoat test, not only in the matter of design but in regard to the type 
of silk best adapted to present day wear in petticoats. The interest which 
the Stehli Silks Company took in the project is evinced in their desire to give 
the American Home Economics Association beautiful fabrics, which may have 
proved too fine and exquisite for the type of wear required. The fact that 
in many cases petticoats are still being worn and are in good condition after 
nine months to a year's wear, proves the quality of the silk. The Stehli 
Company made generous concessions in the matter of price at a time when 
silks were at the peak of high prices, and gave their time and interest. The 
thanks of the American Home Economic Asssociation are gratefully tendered 
them. 

In the final report, which will be prepared as soon as tabulations are suf- 
ficiently complete,' comparisons will be made of the construction and wear of 
the petticoat silks, with the silks used in the " Small Samples Test," and with 
silk linings and petticoats of all tj'pes which have been submitted to the com- 
mittee, together with the record of wear. 

Ellen Beers McGowan, 
For the Textile Standardization Committee. 



THE CALL OF THE BUSINESS WORLD FOR TRAL\ED 
WORKERS' 

JOHN WILLY 

Editor, Hotel Montldy 

In presenting my subject I can speak only from observation in my 
particular field, which is the hotel, with fringe of restaurant, lunch 
room, tea room, cafeteria, club, hospital, institution, boarding school, 

' Presented at the meeting of the Illinois Home Economics Association, Oct. 22, 1921. 



24 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

industrial plant with catering department, transportation catering, 
and other agencies that minister to bodily health and creature comforts. 
The hotel, as I see it, is nothing more than a wholesale home, the hous- 
ing and feeding of people in larger numbers than that of the average 
family. It is preeminently a business of domestic work. It calls both 
men and women. It is most honorable work, since it is that which most 
closely serves mankind for his physical weU-being, which is the base of 
mental well-being. 

Unfortunately, domestic work has been unpopular in recent years. 
Why this is so I do not know; but in America it has been difficult to 
induce intelligent people to take up hotel or institution catering. There 
seems to be a feeling that this work is demeaning. Most of the 
people in this employment have been of foreign birth, and when 
the great war broke out there probably were more foreign people engaged 
in the catering trades than in any other industry. Perhaps this was 
because Europe trained people for this business, and they came to 
America to secure the larger wage paid for this work. The field was 
in\itingly open to them, there being practically no competition from 
American workers other than that from the most uneducated classes. 
These conditions, seemingly, kept a great many Americans from 
taking up this work, for their associates would be largely people 
of foreign birth and language, or, if American, lacking refinement 
in habits or speech. Then, too, the working conditions have been 
unattractive. 

The war, however, has brought about a big change. The call from 
the European nations for their subjects to return to fight took tens of 
thousands of trained employes from American catering establishments 
back to Europe, where the great majority have remained. This is 
the psychological time for training workers for this industry, and for 
raising the standard of domestic work, particularly as it applies to the 
service of those who travel or who must be housed and fed part of 
the time away from the family. 

Now is the time when the preparation of foods may be undertaken 
with more intelligent direction than heretofore, to the great benefit 
of the general health of the people at large; our food may be cleaner 
and more appetizing, and the balanced ration more often pro\'ided. 
Then, too, the housing accommodations may be more comfortable, 
more attractive in their furnishings, more wholesome from the sam'- 
tary and pure air point of ^iew, and more conducive to rest and refresh- 
ment of body and mind. It is up to intelligent people to do this work, 



1922] CALL OF THE BUSINESS WORLD FOE TRAINED WORKERS 25 

and to make it more attractive. The call is for them. They can bring 
about a reformation in working quarters, so that the working surround- 
ings may be wholesome. They can, by example, so raise the standards 
of domestic work that a higher grade of people will come into the busi- 
ness under their direction, and, incidentally, they can benefit pri- 
vate homes, for it will be a leavening influence of nation wide scope. 
As illustrative of home economics work: Two years ago I discovered 
in the largest hotel in the world (The Permsylvania-Statler of New York) 
a dietitian who compiled the menus for eight hundred employes, the 
management believing that, if employes were rationally fed, and the 
menus prepared by a trained person, there would be more content and 
less waste. The experiment was so satisfactory that dietitians are now 
in all of the five hotels of the Statler chain, in other hotels that have 
followed suit, in department stores, in hospitals, and in some of the 
large industrial catering plants. It was proved in the Pennsylvania 
Hotel that the employes were benefited ; they were made more efficient 
by the wholesome meals prescribed by the dietitian. Not only that, 
but the hotel saved thousands of dollars a year in the economy that 
prevented waste. 

Trained women are also fitted for other work. For instance: Mr. 
Boomer of New York, who controls ten thousand rooms and employs 
over ten thousand people, draws from universities for his executives, 
all of whom have first to go through an apprenticeship. He employs a 
woman to operate tea rooms, a woman to control the women's floor in 
one of his hotels, a woman head of the travel bureau. One of his trained 
women was given the management of the big Cafe Savarin. The mana- 
ger of the Statler Hotel, Detroit, has six executives who are college 
trained. He himself worked his way through college by learning the 
catering business in a local hotel. 

I would also emphasize the fact that one cannot be trained to fill 
any one position in the catering world, because no two establishments 
are alike. One must adapt herself to conditions. There is no other 
business that is so dependent upon initiative for success. Most of the 
worth while positions occupied by women today were created by them- 
selves, of their own initiative, demonstrating the practicability of an 
idea, and blazing the trail for others. They are the pioneers that have 
brought the call of the business world for trained workers. 



26 THE joiTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Feeding and housing is the biggest business in the world. In the 
United States alone 120 billion meals are eaten every year, of which 12 
billion are prepared in public eating houses and institutions. Is this 
not a rich field for home economics? 

This brings me to a matter in which I am greatly interested, and am 
trying to bring about — the operation of a hotel on every college campus, 
the hotel to be in the nature of a training school for workers especially 
attracted to some branch of home economics for their life's work. Take, 
for instance, the University of Illinois, with which I am most familiar. 
There they have something like eight thousand men and women students, 
a large proportion of whom do not know their future Kfe-work and have 
no idea as to what it wiU be. They are educating themselves, trusting 
to find suitable occupations after they are graduated. As I have said 
before, the hotel training fits for every kind of related work, as institu- 
tion, tea room, or whatever it may be. Many of these young people 
find it necessary to work their way through coUege, and it has been 
demonstrated that many students who have been employed in college 
town hotels or institutions have learned to Hke that kind of work, and, 
with their intelUgence, have advanced so rapidly that, not long after 
leaving college, they have found lucrative executive positions. 

The purpose of the hotel-on-campus is to have a small hotel, just 
sufficient for the needs of alumni, the family or friends of students, and a 
sprinkhng of commercial people, so that the hotel can be operated scien- 
tifically; this hotel to be the nucleus of dormitories and dining haUs, 
and to have a large kitchen and bakeshop with class rooms, the work of 
the students serving the entire campus as weU as the hotel. In con- 
nection with this hotel, there should be the laundry, the garden for 
fruits and vegetables, an accounting department, electrical equipment 
(for ninety per cent of hotel and institution service is now electrical), the 
machinery hall, chances for the study of foods, of furniture, decoration, 
architecture, plumbing, fuel, ventilation, refrigeration, and the ways 
and means of cleaning and of maintaining buildings and furnishings. 
It is an opportunity to give education of head and hand in home 
economics. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

HOMEMAKING AS A PHASE OF CITIZENSHIP 

CORA M. WINCHELL 
Assistant Professor, Household Arts Education, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Precious the home, though but a rifted rock, 
Where way worn shepherd tarries with his flock! 
Precious the friendly covert, though it be 
Only a shelter of a lonely tree. 
Dear is that world-old, warm, heart-pulling thing 
To man and beast and bird one gladdening! 
Dear is the roof, the hole, the lair, the nest, 
Hid places where the heart can be at rest. 
******** 

Yes, home will sweeten in the coming days 
When widening love shall warm these human ways; 
WTien every mother, pressing to her face 
Her child, shall clasp all children of the race. 
Then u-ill the rafter and the oaken beam 
Be laid in music and the poet's dream — 
When earth, as far as flies the feathered foam. 
Shall have in it the friendly feel of home. 

— From The Home Joy by Eduin Markham. 

The strength of a nation is at all times a subject of paramount interest 
to the world. It is reckoned by various standards, depending in part 
upon the purpose of the estimate. It may be rated in terms of the 
financial resources of the nation's exchequer, — and the magnitude of 
the sum taxes the comprehension of the average individual. It may 
be measured in terms of the natural resources of the land — her forests, 
her mines, her fertihty, her water power, her climatic conditions, her 
natural beauties. It may be stated in terms of the tonnage of her navy 
and merchant marine, and the gross equipment of her army. It may 
be reckoned in population — in man and woman power, both mature and 
in childhood, and even in terms of prospective census findings. And 
we can \-ision in the future the determination of the "Intelligence Quo- 
tient" of nations, with the resultant graphic comparison of relative 
mentality. 

27 



28 THE JOTIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The quantitative determination of man power, if we accept the state- 
ment of John Dewey, in his article, "What Holds China Back,"' may 
prove the weakness rather than the strength of a nation. He contends 
that the crowding of the people in that over-populated land has caused 
inhibition of the power of initiative and a tendency to deaden brotherly 
love and mutual helpfulness which are fundamental to the forward- 
moving nation. The human resources must be measured, then, not 
numerically alone, but also in terms of physical, mental, moral, and 
spiritual strength, and in terms of the power of the nation to maintain 
and increase that strength by means of intelligent and purposeful effort. 

Through inheritance man brings into the world both strength and 
weakness, of body, of mind, of heart. Modern civilization brings to 
the rearing of man certain agencies which serve to encourage and de- 
velop the better, and to inhibit the less valuable tendencies, according to 
the present enlightemnent of thinking men and women. Outstanding 
among these constructive agencies are the home, the church, the school, 
the press. . It cannot be held true that these agencies are infallibly 
positive in their influence; but it cannot be denied that they are all 
powerful agents in the development of the human resources of a nation; 
and it is obvious that civilization is working, through them, to a higher 
plane. 

America today is deploring the scarcity of well-trained teachers, 
because of the low salary schedule. The ministry is said to be attract- 
ing too few men of the caliber essential to leadership in spiritual develop- 
ment, and the thinking public is apprehensive. The "yellow sheet" 
in journalism is decried and deplored because of its negative influence 
upon thought and action in the affairs of community and nation. But 
it is only the occasional individual who senses any menace to civiliza- 
tion in the lack of intelligent preparation for homemaking and parent- 
hood in the yoimg men and women of our land. 

It is difficult and unpleasant to conceive of a homeless land. It 
would be interesting to attempt to delete from the world's literature 
all allusions to home, its sancitity, its memories, its influence, its contri- 
bution to civilization. Upon man's tendency to create a family group 
and to dwell within a personal home is based much of the promise of 
sociologists for the stability of society. The biological theory of the 
tendency of life to reproduce its kind presupposes an abiding place for 
the infant organism. Despite the highly colored predictions of the 

' Asia, May, 1920. 



1922] HOMEMAKING AS A PHASE OF CITIZENSHIP 29 

modernist who forsees an earthly paradise provided vAth community 
kitchens, cooperative-housekeeping-apartment buildings, communal 
day nurseries staffed by trained attendants who are said to be "far 
better able to pro\ade for the child's care than the average mother can 
possibly be," the scarcity of individual homes, equipped for maintain- 
ing each family as an entity, is one of the menacing and soul-trying 
problems of the present period of readjustment. 

Granted that citizenship in the last analysis expresses itself in an 
avowed beUef in the cause of country, and in devotion to the further- 
ance of the highest ideals for her welfare, would it not be well to analyze 
her welfare in terms of the human capital which is fundamental to the 
realization of her highest ideals? The ultimate goal of social reorganiza- 
tion and adjustment must be reached by a long and sincere interchange 
of ideas, — an evaluation of their validity and their integrity. Concomi- 
tant to the sanity and well-focused vision essential to the evaluation 
of these ideas is the need for an en\arormient, both personal and related, 
which wiU make possible the greatest freedom for mental and spiritual 
activity. 

The sociologist recognizes the family as the fundamental basis of 
society. He recognizes in the family in the relationships of the various 
members, the relationships which exist in all social organization. Dr. 
Charles A. Ellwood, in Sociology and Modern Social Problems, considers 
the functions of the family under three heads: (1) the function of con- 
tinuing the life of the species; (2) the function of conserving social 
possessions; (3) the function in social progress. 

Under the third of these, the function of the family in social progress, 
Dr. Ellwood includes the opportunity to generate altruism in society, 
saying that "the family affection is the natural root of altruism in so- 
ciety at large"; and he concludes, "The nation whose family life decays, 
therefore, rots at the core; for its chief spring of social and civic virtue 
dries up." 

With a sense of this relation of the home to the welfare of society, 
the business of homemaking assumes a share in the world's work which 
should reUeve it of much of the monotony and drudgery with which it 
has been associated in the minds of many men and women. 

The conception of a real home involves the association of kindred 
spirits. Correlative to this assumption is the modern ideal of a fair 
partnership in the business of homemaking, a partnership involving the 
participation of all members of the family group. 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

John Fiske attributes to the age of infancy an important contribu- 
tion to the organization of the family. 

WTiat is the meaning of the fact that man is born into the world more help- 
less than any other creature, and needs for a much longer season than any 
other living thing the tender care and wise counsel of his elders? . . . 
It will appear that it was the lengthening of infancy which ages ago gradually 
converted our forefathers from brute creatures into human creatures. . . 
But with our half-human forefathers it is not difficult to see how infancy ex- 
tending over several years must have tended gradually to strenghten the re- 
lations of the children to the mother, and eventually to both parents, and thus 
give rise to the permanent organization of the family. When this step was 
accomplished, we may say that the Creation of Man has been acliieved. For 
through the organization of the family has arisen that of the clan or tribe 
which has formed, as it were, the cellular tissue out of which the most complex 
human society has come to be constructed. And out of that subordination of 
individual desires to the common interest, which first received a definite 
direction when the family was formed, there grew the rude beginnings of 
human morality. 

Ha^^ng agreed upon the fact that the baby in the home plays a pro- 
found part in the business of homemaking by making homemaking neces- 
sary, it may be well further to analyze the share held by other members 
of the family in the corporation. 

In the history of the race, the share of the various members of the 
family group has changed from time to time. Perhaps at no time has 
the principle of division of labor been less clearly defined in the business 
of homemaking than it is today. Woman's homemaking powers have 
been drafted into the larger home and she is contributing to community 
homemaking the womanly interest and wisdom which in times past were 
utilized only in the individual home. Through the franchise and her 
share in outside interests woman is extending to the other families in her 
own and other communities an intelligent supervision which she has 
given in the past to the welfare of her own famUy in relation to the milk 
and water supply, the system of garbage disposal, the health of women 
and children in industry, the promotion of wholesome recreation, and 
the beautifying of the en\ironment. 

In turn, man's share in homemaking has become less \acarious, and the 
life and business of the family are profiting from the broad \asion and 
business sense w'hich he is turning to account in the improvement of 
business methods in the home. It has been said that every child is 



1922J HOMEMAKING AS A PHASE OF CITIZENSHIP 31 

entitled to two parents; and there is a promise that the present tendency 
to equalize man's and woman's share in the life within and without the 
home will go far toward insuring well-rounded parental care. 

The boy and girl in the modern home are returning by force of cir- 
cumstances and by parental and educational foresight to a more intimate 
share in homemaking. The father and mother of \ision are providing 
for the children opportunities for the wise expenditure and saving of 
money, for sharing in home duties, and for participation in constructive 
community activities. Modern education is recognizing its responsi- 
bility in training boyhood and girlhood for what has been happily termed 
"worthy home membership," and through the demands of that great 
modem educational principle, "learning by doing," the present day 
school boy and girl are being trained in the arts of home citizenship by 
sharing in the acti\ities of the home and the community under the 
encouragement of both home and school. 

For the purposes of analysis, woman's share in the business of home- 
making will be treated in the further discussion of homemaking as a 
phase of citizenship; this will doubtless be considered perfectly just, 
especially by the woman herself, for hers is a busy Hfe and in general 
prON-ides less time for "extra home acti\'ities. " Furthermore, the main 
business of homemaking falls upon woman, and she it is who finally 
"heads up" the effect of the home upon the members of the family 
group. 

In order to contribute one's best to the solution of life's problems it 
is necessary to have a retreat from the busy world. The well-ordered 
home provides such a refuge for the members of the family. The home- 
maker contributes much to the sum total of hirnian comfort and eiB- 
ciency by maintaining a home atmosphere which modifies the complexi- 
ties of the business world. This task demands health of body and 
mind, nerve poise, and a constantly widening vision which keeps pace 
with her husband and her children in their more constant contacts with 
the business and educational world; and the homemaker who would 
serve well in this capacity should not allow herself to slacken. 

Only by a careful evaluation of essentials and non-essentials in the 
business of homemaking, can woman maintain her greatest power. It 
was one of our New England mothers who said that she would rather 
have a little dust on the table than to have it on her brain! 

The homemaker should aim to maintain her perspective, and to keep 
herself young in body and spirit if she would serve her country best in 
the guidance of the youth in her home. She should at all times be a 



32 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January- 

part of the world and its life if she would command the respect of the 
members of her family for her wisdom and guidance. 

The importance of participation by the homemaker in the activities 
of church, club, and community organizations is obvious. She needs 
these contracts in order to keep herself most effective as a guiding factor 
in her home group; and as a means of maintaining a social consciousness 
which serves to link her home to the larger whole. When evaluated in 
terms, then, not only of immediate comfort and service to the members 
of the family group, but also as a constant contribution to the progress 
of civilization, the manifold activities of the home assume a m.ore inter- 
esting role. 

The share of the homemaker in the great movement for better health 
in the nation, and hence more effective service, can hardly be defined. 
Woman as consumer purchases health (or a lack of it) for the members 
of her immediate household; and indirectly, through her demand for 
clean, wholesome food and clothing products, she creates a supply of 
commodities which are available for the less intelligent homemaker who, 
because of lack of knowledge, is indifferent to the scope of variation in 
purchasable products. Woman as purchaser is in a position to affect 
labor conditions in the industries. The homemaker who refuses the 
product of sweatshop labor will, when her power increases through 
numbers, be influential in improving industrial conditions. Through 
the intelligent use of her vote, woman may wield an even greater influ- 
ence in demanding better working conditions for men, women, and 
children. 

The relationship of home and community hygiene to the welfare of 
the nation makes its imprint upon the lives of individuals as units in 
the larger social whole. Cleanliness is not maintained without effort. 
The silent influence of the good housekeeper, surrounded by neighbors 
from other lands who are eager to learn American ways, is a potent 
factor in the great work of Americanization. The simple house fur- 
nishings, the spotless window curtains, the well-laundered clothing, the 
careful ventilation, and the weU-ordered household activities of the 
American homemaker will serve as a guide in helping the foreign house- 
wife who observes them to adapt her methods of li\dng to those of her 
foster homeland. 

Woman plays an important part, in her business of homemaking, in 
contributing to the creation and maintenance within her own family 
group of a clear and well-defined body of principles of right living and 
right thinking. Home ideals — those subtle standards for the promo- 



1922] HOMEMAKIXG AS A PHASE OF CITIZENSHIP 33 

tion of the most advantageous human relationships — are basic in their 
influence upon the interrelations of the citizenry of the nation. Whether 
it be as the wife and mother in the individual home, or as the homemaker 
in an institutional home — a refuge for orphan children or for the aged, or 
a communal home where business men and women find their permanent 
or temporary respite from the complexity of daily life — the homemaker 
of vision may serve her country along these lines of activity. 

The love of home and family is inherent in most women. The reaUza- 
tion of her opportunity for wider service through the exercise of her 
utmost powers as homemaker is creating in woman a desire for adequate 
preparation for that service. The Ufe of the homemaker presents many 
problems of adjustment. It makes an infinite number of demands 
upon women, many of whom are inherently better adapted to other 
types of activity and service. The world is in a process of change in 
relation to woman's contribution to society. The press is offering a 
vast nimiber of contributions to the whole discussion. Women are at 
work on their own problem, and are solving individual cases in ways 
more or less satisfactory to them and their own families. 

To society at large goes out the challenge to equip women to enter 
this enlarged sphere of world homemaking, not at the expense of the 
individual home which is proclaimed to be the "chief spring of social 
and ci\ac virtue, " but with an education adequate to the needs. Such 
an education must be liberal in every sense of the word ; the girl must be 
trained to do, to think, to vision, and to sense human needs. Is American 
higher education training girlhood for its full responsibihtes in 
citizenship? 



"what is a budget ?" 

"Well, it is a method of worrying be- 
fore you spend instead of afterward." 
— Boston Traveler. 



EDITORIAL 

National Thrift Week begins January 17th. The national feature 
days are as follows: 

J 17 — Thrift Day — Benjamin Franklin's Birthday 

A 18— Budget Day 

N 19 — Life Insurance Day 

U 20— Own Your Home Day 

A 21— Pay Your Bills Promptly Day 

R 22— Share with Others Day 

Y 23— Make a Will Day 

The Home Economics Association is cooperating with the Y. M. C. A. 
in this Thrift campaign, and every member should approve and endorse 
the Prosperity Platform. This platform has ten planks: Work and 
Earn, Make a Will, Record all Expenditures, Have a Bank Account, 
Carry Life Insurance, Own Your Own Home, Make Your Will, Pay 
Your Bills Promptly, Invest in Safe Securities, Share with Others. 

The Sources of the Family Income. "Where does the money 
go?" is the common cry, hence our schedules of expenditure, our balanc- 
ing of accounts; but "Where does it come from?" is considered a very 
simple question, to be answered by the figures on the payroll or the 
contents of the pay envelope. 

True, the money brought in by the money earners of a family must 
always form the solid background of the financial plan, but there are 
other sources of income which we do well to consider as such, and to 
rightly estimate. They may make aU the difference between smiling 
comfort and gray visaged want. 

Take, as illustration, a case that may come within the observation 
of any of us, the spending of a $3000 income by an individual or by a 
family. A yoxmg business man receiving this salary, has in hand a 
smn larger than that held by nine-tenths of the families of our country. 
If told this little fact as shown by the census, he says in wonder "How do 
they manage it?" for he finds it difficult to add much to his savings 
account or perhaps has given up the attempt altogether. Thanks to 
the rosy hopefulness of youth he may marry without being able to prove 
34 



1922J EDITORIAL 35 

in black and white that the move is a wise one, and yet it may be the 
most sensible step he has ever taken. 

"Two can live on the same money as one," is an old saying, true or 
false as it is modified by certain important factors. If true, the fore- 
going generation must have given their children a good start in life 
through education and training and something placed in the savings 
bank; the wife is to be regarded as an asset, not a burden, capable 
through her good health and skill of making a substantial contribution 
in the form of housekeeping activities; and the community will provide 
help in education, recreation, and many other ways. These are the 
three requirements, made by Mrs. Abel in her book, Successful Family 
Life on the Moderate Income, to be added to the man's earnings in 
order that the venture may not fail on the financial side. And all three 
must be looked on as sources of income. If thus considered, the average 
family is much better off than we are apt to think. 

Now how does our young bachelor spend his money? He is, we will 
say, a stranger in a city and without family backing. He must find his 
own friends and look after his own amusements. He takes a room on 
a good street and eats at a restaurant, or he takes his dinners at a good 
boarding house, at $1.00 each, and eats his other meals near his place 
of business. For this room and board he pays $20.00 a week, and here 
goes one third of his income. He could do somewhat better but in 
general he does not. 

The secret of his apparent extravagance lies in his pleasures. He 
must have friends. If through his church or other connections he 
becomes acquainted with families in which there are young ladies, he 
must in some way return the hospitality he receives. This is a pleasure 
loving age and the girls of these families are accustomed to go out two 
or three evenings a week. For good seats for the play or concert he 
will spend some $10.00 a week, and if the night prove stormy he must 
provide a taxi. To this will be added entrance fees to ball games and 
the like. Then the pet charities of his friends take a heavy toll. Watch 
a popular young man at a church fair ! He is fair game ! Is he not a 
bachelor with no one dependent on him? These outgoes, together with 
his summer vacation, will take another thousand. Clothing comes next, 
with laundry- and its destruction of unmended socks and shirts. Next, 
the many incidentals, so that a $400 or $500 savings account is the 
most we can hope for at the end. Now if this young man marries, the 
rent of the furnished bachelor quarters will pay for the unfurnished 
housekeeping apartment to be furnished by the bride, the cost of res- 



36 THE joxTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

taurant food covers the raw materials for her skilled fingers to work up, 
the clothing receives proper care, the cost of pleasure in public places is 
sharply cut, for the home is now the center of social life and happiness, 
and the community comes to their help with free libraries, museimis, 
music, parks, and play grounds. 

The wife of the wage earner or common laborer in her capacity of 
housekeeper and caretaker of children has been estimated to double 
her husband's earnings, and the same could probably be proved true of 
the wife of the man of larger income if her services to a household of 
higher standards is paid for at the ruling rates. 

The housewife's services as a source of family income are thus seen to 
be a substantial factor, and in many cases it will be difficult for her to 
earn as much outside the home. But her attitude to the home must be 
one of helpfulness and sacrifice, and her health and training must be 
of the best. 

The community as a source of income also makes a substantial show- 
ing and this source is to be greatly increased when the individual voter 
awakes to study the way the taxes are spent and requires that what is 
now wasted by inefficient public servants shall go to provide better 
schools, better inspection and distribution of food, lower priced trans- 
portation, and good low priced hospitals. 

These three accessory sources of income are no less important in 
financing a family with children. Is it not the duty of home economics 
forces to help make effective these three sources of family income to 
supplement the bread wiimer's efforts? "Saving, training, and public 
honesty" might well be the slogan. 

The "Maternity Bill." On the day before Thanksgiving, Presi- 
dent Harding signed the "Maternity Bill," providing for Federal 
cooperation with the States in promoting the welfare of maternity and 
infancy. After more than three years of struggle, the bill was passed by 
both houses of Congress by overwhelming votes. The Children's 
Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor is given the administration of 
the act, and the Chief of the Children's Bureau is made the executive 
officer. A Board of Maternity and Infant Hygiene, consisting of the 
Chief of the Children's Bureau, the Surgeon-General of the U. S. Public 
Health Service, and the United States Commissioner of Education, 
is given certain powers of review and approval. A total appropriation 
of $1,480,000 is authorized for the current fiscal year, and an appropria- 
tion of $1,240,000 for each of five years thereafter. Except for a very 



1922J EDITORIAL 37 

small percentage to be used for administrative purposes, the money is to 
be divided among the States accepting the provisions of the act, to be 
used, together with State funds, for promoting the welfare and hygiene 
of maternity and infancy. 

So eagerly was the passage of this bill awaited that at least six states 
in the 1921 sessions of their legislatures passed laws accepting the Act, 
if it should become a law, and authorizing a state board or division to 
cooperate with the Federal Government. These states include Dela- 
ware, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, and 
South Dakota. The rest of the states will not have to wait until the 
next regular session of their legislatures, for the law provides that, if the 
legislature has not acted, the governor may, in so far as the laws of his 
state permit, accept the provisions of the Act and authorize a state 
agency to cooperate with the Children's Bureau until the legislature has 
had opportmiity to act. More than 30 states have child welfare or child 
hygiene divisions in their State Boards of Health, and in these states the 
law provides that its administration shall be in the hands of these divi- 
sions. Any state desiring to benefit from the Act must submit to the 
Children's Bureau detailed plans for its administration, and these plans 
are subject to approval of the Federal Board of Maternity and Infant 
Hygiene. 

How much money will a state accepting the act receive from the 
Federal Government to be used in making maternity and infancy more 
safe? In the first place, $10,000 the first year, and $5,000 a year there- 
after will be paid each state indicating its desire to cooperate. An 
additional $5,000 will be paid, providing the state appropriates $5,000 
of its own for the same purpose. That makes a total of $15,000 the 
first year and $10,000 a year for each year thereafter available from 
Federal funds to each state regardless of its size. In addition $710,000 
a year is provided to be distributed among the states on the basis of 
population, providing the amounts thus apportioned are matched by 
state appropriations. 

This Act is a challenge to all state home economics associations. Here 
is a definite opportunity to support in your state a vital piece of social 
legislation. Get in touch, through your child welfare and legislative 
committees, with the plans of all other organizations interested in this 
law, and work earnestly together that your state may participate in the 
provisions of the Act. 

Jen L. Cox died at her home in Wichita, Kansas, November 15, 
1921, after an iUness of a year. Faihng health had taken her to 



38 THE joiXRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

California two years previously, From 1913-1919 she was instructor 
and assistant professor in the Department of Domestic Science at 
Kansas State Agricultural College. During the second semester of 
1917-18, while on leave of absence, she was professor of domestic 
science at the Utah Agricultural College. Through her death home 
economics loses a forceful teacher and one who represented the tj^e 
of womanhood for which the profession stands. 

Food Advertising. It is diiScult even for the food expert not to be 
bewildered by the array of glowing advertisements which proclaim from 
magazine, bill-board, and shop window the incalculable and, one would 
think, hitherto unrecognized merits of our old friends. Almost none of 
these loudly heralded foods are strangers; the consuming public merely 
seems not to have eaten enough of them in the past. 

The public without asking for it at all has been given a week in which 
to eat prunes, a week for consuming canned foods, a week for partaking 
of rice, and in the meantime is urged, in addition, to eat more yeast, 
peanuts, raisins, olives, oleomargarin and almost every food imaginable. 
The accompanying literature gives reasons why we should "eat more," 
some of which are sound, some of which are sound but exaggerated in 
a misleading fashion, and others of which are only the products of some- 
body's imagination. A discussion of the merits of each of these foods 
is not the purpose of this article, but home economics should not fail 
to recognize worth where it exists and should continue to teach dis- 
crimination based upon sound knowledge of cost and nutritive value. 

Both the home economics and the medical professions have consider- 
able responsibility for the saneness of such campaigns, as dietitians, 
physicians, and home economics texts are quoted freely. How much 
influence the teaching of home economics may have upon the eating 
habits of the consimiing public is emphasized by a recent inquiry made 
by the Livestock Marketing Committee of Fifteen into the causes for 
the decrease in beef consumption. Between the years 1907 and 1920 
the consumption of beef declined from 79.9 pounds per capita to 56.4 
pounds. There is a feeling that the importance given to meat substi- 
tutes in college courses and especially in extension work may be one 
factor contributing to this decline. ' 

The saneness of moderation will probably carry Mr. Average Man 
over such campaigns with no undue digestive or nutritional disorders. 
Luckily he is learning more and more every day about foods, their com- 
position, and nutritive value. The fact that he is interested and ready 
to learn has given the "eat more" campaigns their incipiency. 

• Unpublished correspondence. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The VUamine Manual. By Walter H. 

Eddy. Baltimore: Williams & WiUdns 

Company, 1921, pp. 121. $2.50. 

Dr. Eddy's new VUamine Manual will be 
received with much satisfaction by home 
economics workers. It is a very readable 
and interesting account of the subject, 
delightfully written in sufEciently non-tech- 
nical language to be comprehensible by 
those who are not themselves well versed in 
vitamine research; and yet it is full of mate- 
rial of value to those who wish to apply vita- 
mine knowledge to human feeding and those 
who are doing e.xperimental rat work. The 
book begins vdth an historical chapter, 
"How \'itamines were Discovered," which 
describes briefly the early work of Eijkman, 
Hopkins, Funk, Osborne and Jlendel, 
McCoUum and others, and makes the reader 
grasp the surprising fact that the term which 
we all use so glibly is just ten years old. 
Other chapters are on "The Attempts to 
Determine the Chemical Nature of a Vita- 
mine," "Methods used in Testing for Vita- 
mines," "The Sources of Vitamines," 
"How to Utilize the Vitamines in the Diet," 
"The Chemical and Physiological Proper- 
ties of the \'itamines." In the latter chap- 
ter Eddy includes a brief account of his own 
and Daniels and Byfield's successful results 
on feeding e.ttra "B" to infants, and Karr's 
work on stimulating the appetites of dogs 
by"B." 

The description of methods includes 
tables of the rat diets used by different inves- 
tigators — a very convenient help to students 
developing rat feeding e.xperiments. Much 
use, too, will be made by home economics 
teachers and students of the extensive tables 
on Sources of Vitamines. These list a large 
number of foodstuffs with a series of plus 
signs indicating their relative content of 
"A," "B," and "C." Of course all such 



tables have the weakness that they are too 
definite and do not bring out sufEciently 
clearly that the content of "C" in particular 
varies greatly with the way the food is pre- 
pared for the table. Nevertheless, they are 
a useful graphic metliod of presenting a large 
mass of material. 

The book closes with a 28 page bibliogra- 
phy on vitamines and related topics. 

On the whole this is a very useful and 
stimulating book. 

Katharine Bujnt, 
The University of Chicago. 

New Ho-mes for Old. By Sophonisba P. 
Breckinridge, Professor of Social Econ- 
omy, University of Chicago. New York: 
Harper and Brothers, 1921, pp. 356. $2.50. 
Miss Breckinridge's new book is one of a 
series of Americanization Studies written 
under the direction of Mr. Allen T. Bums, 
assisted by an editorial committee, and 
financed by the Carnegie Corporation of 
New York. The purpose of the book is 
"to help in the adjustment of immigrant 
family life in this country" by exhibiting 
the serious difficulties encountered by 
foreign-born families in attaining such sat- 
isfaction in their family relationships "as 
would constitute a genuine feeling of homi- 
ness, and make the immigrant home an 
integral part of the domestic development 
in this country." The value of the book 
is greatly enhanced by the helpful sugges- 
tions contained in the last three chapters 
concerning effective methods of introducing 
the immigrant family to specialists' stand- 
ards of living. 

The loss to the corrmiunity, in permitting 
many of the difficulties met with by immi- 
grant families to remain, is very real, although 
not clearly perceived by the majority of 
well-meaning and intelligent people. After 

39 



40 



THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



reading the opening chapters of Miss Breck- 
inridge's book, which portray the obstacles 
in the path of immigrant homemakers in 
our land, the reader, informed perhaps for 
the first time, is tempted to echo the saying 
that "there is in America, at first, nothing 
for the immigrant but the shovel." Very 
clearly the author describes the bewilder- 
ment of the immigrants after landing in a 
totally strange land, and their difficulties 
in adapting themselves to the housing and 
food conditions, the household furnishings 
and utensils, the different style of dress, 
the strange money system of America. In 
many instances these new-comers have 
lived in rural districts and are familiar 
with the economic system of payment in 
kind and not in money. Landed in our 
midst with few agencies to help them in 
acquiring American standards with respect 
to family relationships, household sanita- 
tion, personal hygiene and a score of other 
matters, the members of immigrant families 
struggle unaided with their problems; and 
years, if not a life-time, are required to make 
satisfactory adjustments to life in the new 
country. Attempts to eke out a meagre 
income, by filling the home with lodgers or 
by sending out mothers to work and employ- 
ing children out of school hours, add enor- 
mously to the difficulties of adjustment. 

The wastefulness of a system that leaves 
the instruction of immigrant parents in the 
essentials of wholesome family life largely 
to chance is pointed out again and again 
throughout the book. Not content with 
this, however, the autlior goes on to con- 
sider what existing agencies could be ex- 
panded and utilized for giving this much-need- 
ed instruction and practical help. An illum- 
inating chapter is devoted to describing the 
local benefit societies and national organiza- 
tions which have been established by the 
foreign-born peoples themselves, not alone 
as mutual aid societies but as agencies of 
education in American customs and ideals. 
Consultations with representatives of these 
organizations of the foreign-born have led 
the author to believe that if they could be 
brought in touch with the work of e.xisting 
social agencies, which could make available 
for their use the material on household 



management, food values, and care of 
children, "a fine and fruitful cooperation" 
among these associations could be brought 
about. 

In the final chapters of the book the exist- 
ing agencies of adjustment are briefly de- 
scribed. The valuable work done by the 
Immigrants' Protective League, Settlement 
Classes, International Institutes, and Recre- 
ational Agencies is set forth and suggestions 
are made for the expansion and improvement 
of their services. Especially does Miss 
Breckinridge advocate the encouragement 
of promising young women, from the foreign- 
born groups, to qualify as home teachers 
and as classroom and extension instructors 
in household problems, child care, hygiene, 
and sanitation. The education of these 
young women by means of scholarships, 
together with a finer cooperation between 
American social agencies and those of the 
foreign-born would do much to effect those 
difficult adjustments of our immigrant 
groups to American standards of living 
without which "Americanization" in any 
but a superficial sense can never be accom- 
plished. 

New Homes for Old is, then, a painstaking 
and much-needed study of the obstacles in 
the way of the assimilation of foreign-bom 
groups which have too long obstiucted the 
path to progress. It is a challenge, not alone 
to social workers, but to all intelligent and 
socially minded men and women to lend 
their efforts toward furthering every well- 
considered plan for inducting our immi- 
grant neighbors into the more wholesome 
aspects of American family life. 

WiLLYSTrNE GOODSELL, 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Food Products — Their Source, Chemistry and 
Use. By E. H. S. Bailey, Professor of 
Chemistry, University of Kansas. Phila- 
delphia: P. Blakiston's Son and Co., 2nd 
Ed., Rev., 1921, pp. SSL S2.S0. 

The second edition of this book contains 
many new illustrations and additions which 
have brought the subject matter up to date, 
thereby adding to the reference library of 
the student a book which offers in readable 
form much valuable information regarding 



19221 



BOOKS AND LITERATXIRE 



41 



foods. Especially have the chapters on 
Brewing and Distillation in tlie United 
States, Animal and Vegetable Oils, Nuts, 
Cereals and Cereal Products, been revised. 
A valuable appendix has been added con- 
taining some of the important food legisla- 
tion, tables of chemical composition of food 
materials, tables showing the chemical com- 
position of meats and fuel value per pound, 
a table of common food values, classification 
of foods according to total nutrients, digesti- 
bility of meat, and a list of some .\merican 
commercial food products such as covo, 
troco, postum, and others. 

A preliminary chapter on the sources and 
constituents of foods is given, and this is 
followed by discussions of cereals, sugars, 
alcoholic beverages, vegetables, fruits, nuts, 
mushrooms, animal and vegetable oils, 
meats, fish, milk and dairy products, eggs, 
spices, and non-intoxicating beverages. The 
author has laid emphasis upon the source, 
manufacture, history, composition, cooking, 
nutritive value, use in diet, digestibility, 
and adulteration of the different products. 

Unfortunately, in many places tliere 
seems to be an indiscriminate use of words 
which might be misleading to the student 
reader. Examples of this may be found on 
p. 122 where the heading of a paragraph is 
"Glucose {Fruit Sugar)" and in this para- 
graph is the expression "Frail or grape 
sugar." In other places we find the follow- 
ing: "Heat and energy" and "In order to be 
fully digested, oatmeal should be cooked 
longer than the thirty to forty minutes 
usually suggested." 

The subject of "Planning the Diet," p. 
25, is so inadequately presented in one para- 
graph that it might better have been omitted. 
Vitamines also are inadequately and spar- 
ingly discussed. Water soluble C is not 
mentioned. 

The reviewer is of the opinion that this 
book wiU serve better as a reference than as 
a text, and that for the student the tables 
giving food analyses and references to origi- 
nal records, bulletins, and books, will be of 
particular interest. 

.Alice M. Child, 
University of Minnesota. 



Producing Amateur Entertainments. By 
Helen Ferrls. New York: E. P. Dut- 
ton Company, 1921, pp. 266. $2.50. 
Producing Amateur Entertainments is a 
careful compilation of social exiierience in 
the use of recreation material for amateur 
dramatics. Special mention is made in the 
book of exhibitions whose subject is recrea- 
tion or education in which millinery, cook- 
ing, and similar subjects may be introduc- 
ed. In nutrition or other health work the 
pantomime of class work or the specialty 
acts may be valuable to home economics 
workers both in the classroom and in the 
extension service. As the author has sug- 
gested, "the teaching value of such mater- 
ial depends largely on good interpretations." 
There is no doubt that this book will 
accomplish the aim of the author, for she 
tells us that she hopes that her book "will 
help to perform better those desirable activi- 
ties that are likely to be performed" and 
"to reveal higher types of activity, making 
these latter both desirable and possib'e." 

Producing Amateur Entertainments offers 
suggestions to all who are interested in home 
economics work and who realize that the use 
of the recreation material in this work is an 
art and one which could be studied to the 
advantage of the whole home economics 
movement. 

Clyde B Schtjman. 
Atlantic Division, American Red Cross. 

Jack O'Heallh and Peg O'Joy. Prepared by 

the New York Tuberculosis Association. 

New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. 60 

cents. 

This book, prepared for distribution among 
the children of the public schools of New 
York City, has been endorsed by the New 
York Department of Education, The 
National Child Health Council, The Health 
Service of the American Red Cross, and 
other health organizations. The story is 
based on the hygiene syllabus in use in our 
schools and has been prepared in close coop- 
eration with the Department of Education. 
It is now on the list of books recommended 
to the teachers and will be used as a supple- 
mentary reader by tlie children. All nutri- 



42 



THE JOXTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



tion workers and others interested in child 
welfare wiU find this little fairy story of 
value in teaching health to children. 

Cost of Living. Data on price changes, 
wholesale and retail, of important food 
articles in cities in the U. S. and in foreign 
countries are presented in each number of 
the Monthly Labor Reiiew. 

A curve published in the Annalist, 
September 19, 1920, representing these 
changes, shows the peak of high food prices 
in June 1920, with a fluctuating decline to 
the lowest point, June 1921, and a gradual 
rise to September. 

The Industrial News Survey, October 8 
and November 19, 1921, gives the follow- 
ing statements: 

U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics report of 
cost of 43 food articles, in 51 important 
cities, shows that between September 15, 
1921, and October 15, 1921, there was a 
decrease of 3% in the average cost. For 
the year ended October 15, 1921, the decrease 
for all articles combined was 23%. Whole- 
sale prices declined a little more than 1% 
during October. Farm products showed a 
net decline for the first time since June. 
House furnishings, cloth, and apparel also 
showed declines. 

U. S. Bureau of Agriculture reports pro- 
duction of principal crops in U. S. as esti- 
mated September 1, 1921, in comparison with 
latest five-year average, as: winter wheat, 
123; spring wheat, 86; com, 118; oats, 96; 



barley, 92; rye, 184; rice, 137; cotton, 54; 
potatoes, 91; apples, 61; hay, 121; to- 
bacco, 95. 

The Coal Fire. .A research by Margaret 
White Fishenden for the Fuel Research 
Board of the British Government. Pub- 
lished by His Majesty's Stationery Office 
for the Department of Scientific and 
Industrial Research, Imperial House, 
Kingsway, London, W. C. 2, pp. 107. 
Price 4 shillings net. 

This pamphlet gives the results of tests 
that are of great interest to the home, and 
brings out the efSciencies of various types 
of domestic coal fires. The pamphlet can 
be secured from any book seller. 

Domestic Fuel Consumption. By A. H. 

Barker of the University of London. 

Published by Constable & Company I^td., 

10 Orange Street, Leicester Square W. C, 

London, pp. 159. 

This book gives much valuable informa- 
tion on the use of fuel in the home. It is 
especially valuable on detailed discussion 
of the hygiene of heating. 

A Monograph on Vitamines, which is 
being prepared by Dr. H. C. Sherman, will 
be published by the American Chemical 
Society as one of its reguLir series of mono- 
graphs. This monograph, of particular 
interest to all persons interested in nutrition, 
will appear early in the year. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Foods and Nutrition 

Baer, J. L.: Basal Metabolism in Pregnancy and Puerperium. Ain. J. Obstetrics and 

Gynecology, 1921, 2: 249-255. 
Benedict, F. G.: The Measurements and Standards of Basal Metabolism. /. Am. Med. 

Assoc, 1921, 77: 247-250. 
Blunt, K., and Dye, M.: Basal Metabolism of Normal Women. /. Biol. Chem , 1921,47: 

69-87. 
Boothby, W. M.: The Basal Metabolic Rate in Hyperthyroidism. /. Am. Med. Assoc., 

1921, 77: 252-255. 



1922] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 43 

Bosworth, A. W. : Studies of Infant Feeding XIII. The Caseins of Cow's Milk and Human 

Milk in Their Relation to Infant Feeding. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1921, 22 : 193-201. 
Dakin, H. D.: Physiological Oxidations. Physiol. Rev., 1921, 1: 394-420. 
Drummond, J. C: Vitamins and Certain Aspects of Their Relation to Public Health. 

Am. J. Pub. Health, 1921, 11: 593-597. 
DuBois, E. F.: The Basal Metabolism in Fever. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921,11: 352-3SS. 
Dutcher, R. A., Harshaw, H. M., and Hall, J. S.: Vitamine Studies, VHI. The Effect of 

Heat and Oxidation upon the Antiscorbutic Vitamine. J. Biol. Chent., 1921, 47: 483- 

488. 
Emerson, W. R. P.: Community Nutrition Work. Mother and Child, 1921, 2: 487. 
Gird, E.: California Cookery. r/;e TaWe, 1921, 70: 136-141. 
Goldschmidt, S.: On the Mechanism of Absorption from the Intestine. Physiol. Rev., 

1921, 1: 421-453. 
Hart, E. B., Steenbock, H., and Hoppert, C. A.: Dietary Factors Influencing Calcium 

Assimilation I. The Comparative Influence of Green and Dried Plant Tissue, Cab- 
bage, Orange Juice, and Cod Liver Oil on Calcium Assimilarion. /. Biol. Chent., 1921, 

48:33-50. 
Hess, A. F., McCann, G. F., and Pappenheimer, A. M.: Experimental Rickets in Rats II. 

The Failure of Rats to Develop Rickets on a Diet Deficient in Vitamine A. /. Biol. 

Chem., 1921,47: 395-409. 
Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J.: An Interpretation of the Seasonal Variation of Rickets. Am. 

J. Diseases Children, 1921, 22: 186-192. 
Holt, L. E., and Fales, H. L. : The Food Requirements of Children. II. Protein Require- 
ment. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1921, 22: 371-380. 
Rowland, J., and Kramer, B.: Calcium and Phosphorus in the Serum in Relation to Rickets. 

Am. J. Diseases Children, 22: 105-119. 
Koser, S. A., Edmondson, R. B., and Giltner, L. T. : Observations on Bacillus Botulinus 

Infection of Canned Spinach. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921, 77: 1250-1253. 
Lusk, G.: Fundamental Ideas Regarding Basal Metabolism. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921, 

77: 250-252. 
McCollum, E. v., Simmonds, N., and Parsons, H. T. : Supplementary Protein Values in 

Foods. /. Biol. Chem., 1921, 47: 111-247. 
McCollum, E. v., Simmonds, N., Shipley, P. G., and Park, E.A. : Studies on Experimental 

Rickets. VIII. The Production of Rickets by Diets Low in Phosphorus and Fat- 
Soluble A. J. Biol. Chem., 1921, 47: 507-527. 
Marine, D., and Kimball, O. P.: The Prevention of Simple Goitre. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 

1921. 77: 1068-1070. 
Means, J. H. : Determination of the Basal Metabolism as a Method of Diagonsis and as a 

Guide to Treatment. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921, 77: 347-352. 
Reynolds E., and Macomber D.: Defective Diet as a Cause of Sterility. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 

1921, 77: 169-175. 
Sherman, H. C. and Pappenheimer, A. M.: Experimental Rickets in Rats. Diet Producing 

Rickets in White Rats and its Prevention by the .\ddition of an Inorganic Salt. /. 

Exp. Med., 1921, 34: 189-198. 
Sherwood, S. F. : .A Process for Producing Palatable SjTup from Sugar Beets. /. Ind. Eng. 

Chem., 1921, 13: 799-801. 
Steenbock, H., Sell, M. T., and Boutwell, P. W.: Fat Soluble Vitamine VIII. The Fat 

Soluble Vitamine Content of Peas in Relation to Their Pigmentation. /. Biol. Chem., 

1921, 47: 303-308. 
Steenbock, H., Sell, M. T. and Buell, M. V.: Fat-Soluble Vitamine VII. The Fat Soluble 

V'itamine and Yellow Pigmentation in Animal Fats with Some Observations on its Sta- 

biUty to Saponification. /. Biol. Chem., 1921, 47: 89-109. 



44 THE JOTIRKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Talbot, F. B.: Severe Infantile Malnutrition. The Energy Metabolism With the Report 
ofa New Series of Cases. Am. J . Diseases Children, 1921,22: 358-370. 

Talbot, F. B.: Standards of Basal MetaboUsm in Normal Infants and Children. Am. J. 
Diseases Children, 1921, 21: 519-528. 

Wiltshire, M. O. P.: Basal Metabolism in Menstruation. Lancet, Aug. 20, 1921, II: 388. 

Woodyatt, R. T.: Objects and Method of Diet Adjustment in Diabetis. Arch. Int. Med., 
1921, 28: 125-141. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Foulkes, T. L.: American Fabrics and Their Uses. Textile World, 1921, 60: 1778-1779, 
1845-1847. 

Griffin, R. C. Analysis of Textiles and Textile Fabrics. Chap. IX, pp. 372-386, Technical 
Methods of Analysis, 1921, McGraw Hill Book Co. 

Harriss, W. H.: Cotton Cloth Defects. Textile World, 1921, 60: 1775-1776. 

Haynes, W.: Fast Colors That Fade. Good Housekeeping, Oct. 1921, 73: 13 ff. 

Sibley, R. L.: The Effect of Certain Fire-Proofing Solutions on Cotton Fabric. /. Ind 
Eng. Chem., 1921, 13: 676-678. 

Stratton, S. W.: Standardization and Research. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2443-2445. 

Veitch, F. P. and JarreU, T. D.: The Water Resistance of Treated Canvas during Continu- 
ous Exposure to Weather. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1921, 13: 672-676. 

Effect of Longer Skirts on Consumption of Goods. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2293. 

Garvan's Plea for Dye Protection Stirs Chemists. Textile World, 1921, 60: 1501-1503. 

Worid Cotton Consumption Shows Decrease. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2047, 2111. 

Miscellaneous 

Baldwin, B. T.: The Physical Growth of Children from Birth to Maturity. Univ. Iowa 

Studies, 1921, pp. 411. 
Chapin, H. D.: The Relation Between the Child and the Hospital Social Service. J. Am. 

Med. Assoc, 1921, 77: 279-282. 
Dickson, F. D.: Effect of Posture on the Health of the Child. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921, 

77: 760-763. 
Gray, H.: Ideal Tables for Size and Weight of Private School Boys. Am. J. Diseases 

Children, 1921, 22: 272-283. 
Gray, H., and Jacomb, W. J.: Size and Weight in One Hundred Thirty-Sbc Boarding 

School Boys. Atn. J. Diseases Children, 1921, 22: 259-271. 
Lockwood, S.: How To Save Fuel in Heating a House. Ladies Home J., Oct. 1921, pp. 

88, 90. 
Maddocks, M.: The Sink Efficient. Good Housekeeping, Nov. 1921, 73: 58-59. 
Maddocks, M.: The Ways of Ironing. Good Housekeeping, Oct. 1921, 73: 72-73. 
Suffern, A. E.: What ShaU We Do About Coal? Atl. Mo., Sept. 1921, 128: 417^20. 
Veeder, B. S.: The R61e of Fatigue in the Malnutrition of Children. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 

1921, 77: 758-760. 
Whipple, George C: The Education of Health Officers. U. S. Pub. Health Repts., 1921, 36: 

2593. 
Wilkerson, M. Home Economics Exhibits for County and Community Fairs. Illinois Sta. 

Circ. 247, 1921, pp. 24. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The National Home Economics Convention. One of the most important coming events 
for home economics women is The Fifteenth Annual Meeting of The American Home Econom- 
ics Association to be held at Corvallis, Oregon, July 3-8, 1922. The location of this conven- 
tion is such as to enable those in attendance to combine business with pleasure in an unusual 
manner. 

The program alone promises to be most enticing to progressive home economics women. 
In addition, some exceptional forms of entertainment are being developed. One of the 
features will be the day's entertainment offered by the President's Council of Portland's 
Business and Civic Clubs on July 1. This will be a drive around the city of Portland and 
up the incomparable Columbia River Highway, with an outdoor breakfast or lunch along the 
highway, and dinner in one of the attractive hotels. 

The following description of the Highway, written by Walter Prichard Eaton, appeared 
in the magazine section of the Xcw York Times. 

"From The Dalles to Portland a distance of something under a hundred miles, the Colum- 
bia Highway goes beside the river through the magnificent gorge the stream has carved 
through the basalt of the Cascade range. It is hung on the outer rim of headland precipices, 
it climbs to the top of them and gives you a view of the river for miles and miles, of the green 
water and the blue headlands, it cuts through arched turmels where each arch frames a 
picture, it crosses ravines on attractive concrete bridges, it passes by waterfalls which spray 
down from the cliffs above, it cuts in back through the groves of fir. 

We have heard a lot in the east about the Colombia highway and all of it is true. It is 
the finest scenic drive in the world without any question." 

Information in regard to routes will appear in the next issue of the Journal. 

Home Economics at Constantinople College. The schedule of courses outlined below 
is taken from the 1921-22 calendar of the .\merican CoUege for Girls at Constantinople and 
shows the work which Mrs. Norton has organized for the present college year. -As will be 
seen, textiles and clothing are the only important line of home economics not covered either 
by Mrs. Norton's courses or by those from other correlated departments. No news has yet 
reached this countrj' as to the number of students registered for home economics, but the 
officers of the CoUege in New York feel sure that the success of the work will repay the 
American Home Economics Association for its generosity in establishing the new department. 

HOME ECONOMICS 

Professor Norton 

In aU courses in this department two periods of laboratory work are counted for one hour 
of credit. 

I. General Course. An Introductory Study of the Home. Professor Norton. 

Household problems of food, clothing, shelter. The household budget. The care of 
children. The place of the home in society and its relation to the community. Open to 
Sophomores. Three hours throughout the year. Grade I. Credit hours 6. 

//. Food and Diet. Professor Norton. 

Food materials, their composition and nutritive value. Choosing the daily food. Adap- 
tation of diet to climate and varying conditions. Open to Juniors and Seniors. 

4,S 



46 THE joiiRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Pre-requisites: Physics I, Biolog)' I, Chemistry I. Two hours lecture, two hours labo- 
ratory throughout the first semester. Grade II. Credit hours 3. 

///. The Preparation of Food. Professor Norton. 

The principles of cookery. Preparation of typical dishes. Comparison of national 
customs. 

Pre-requisites: Course II, or Course I, Physics I, Chemistry, Biology I. One hour lec- 
ture, four hours laborator>' throughout the second semester. Grade II. Credit hours 3. 

IV. Cliemistry of Foods. [Chemistry VI). Professor Hall. 
Food analysis, qualitative and quantitative. 

Pre-requisites: Course II and Chemistry II & III. One hour lecture, four hours labo- 
ratory throughout the year. Grade III. Credit hours 6. 

V. Physiology and Hyeiene. {Biology IV). Professor Cook. 

The anatomy and the physiology of the human body. The principles of personal, home, 
and municipal hygiene. Open to all students. Two hours lecture, two hours laboratory 
throughout the year. Grade II. Credit hours 6. 

VI. The Family. (Sociology II). Associate-Professor Jenison. 

A study of the normal family and its functions; the causes of broken homes, and the 
remedies proposed. 

Pre-requisites: Course I and General Sociology. Three hours throughout the year. 
Grade III. Credit hours 6. 

VII. The Economics of Consumption. {Sociology IV). Associate-Professor Jenison. 
The principles of economics with especial application to the home. The household as 

consumer. The responsibility of the household for economic conditions. 

Pre-requisites: Course I and Economics. Three hours throughout the second semester. 
Grade III. Credit hours 3. 

VIII. Household Accounting. Mrs. Briggle. 

The business of the household. Household records and accounts. 

Pre-requisite: Course I. Two laboratory hours throughout the second semester. Grade I. 
Credit hour 1. 

IX. Textiles and Clothing. 

Textile materials and their selection, use, and care. The making of garments. 
Pre-requisites: Chemistry I, Physics I. Two hours lectures, four hours laboratory 
throughout the first semester. Grade II. Credit hours 3. (Not offered in 1921-22.) 

X. Textiles and Clothing. 

Designing and making of garments. Further study of textile materials. The economics 
of clothing. 

Pre-requisite: Course IX. Two hours a week throughout the second semester. Grade 
II. Credit hours 3. (Not offered in 1921-22.) 

XI. Household Art. {Practical Art II). Miss Campbell. 
Design, composition and color as related to the house and to dress. 
Pre-requisites: Courses I, or IX and X, and elementary drawing. 

Four hours of laboratory throughout the year. Grade II. Credit hours 4. 

XII. Household Management. Professor Norton. 

The practical administration of a household, including a study of house sanitation, the 
water supply, plumbing, heating, and ventilation. Open to Juniors and Seniors. 
Pre-requisites: Course I with Physics and Chemistry, or Course II. 
Three hours a week throughout the first semester. Grade II. Credit hours 3. 

XIII. The Care of Children. Professor Norton. 

Infant hygiene. Food for the school chUd. The training of children. Open to Juniors 
and Seniors. 

Pre-requisites: Course X or Courses I and II. Two hours lecture, two hours labora- 
toiy throughout the second semester. Grade III. Credit hours 3. 

XIV. Educational Literary Survey. {English XVI and Education II). Professor Kinney. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



47 



Illinois Home Economics Association. 
Home economics women in Illinois have 
been urging for several years the formation 
of a strong state association to take the place 
of the various sections which have met from 
time to time with allied societies. The new 
plan for regional organization in the Ameri- 
can Home Economics .Association made 
such a step especially desirable at this time, 
and accordingly a call for an organization 
meeting was sent out early in the fall. 

The opening session was held at the 
Art Institute in Chicago, Friday evening, 
October twenty-first. Following a dinner, 
an enthusiastic gathering of over three hun- 
dred women voted to constitute themselves 
ihe Illinois Home Economics .Association 
and to seek affiliation with the national 
society. The association was most happy 
in having Miss Sweeny as guest of honor and 
she opened the meeting with a stirring 
address. Dean Marion Talbot of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago sounded a challenge to 
definiteness of purpose and action, and rep- 
resentatives of various phases of home 
economics activities spoke of the value of a 
state organization to the groups to which 
they belong. 

The meetings on Saturday vvere held at 
the University of Chicago. The speakers at 
the general session in the morning were 
Margaret Sawyer of the American Red Cross 
and Maud Brown of the Elizabeth JlcCor- 
mick Memorial Fund. At the business 
meeting which followed, a constitution was 
adopted, officers were elected, and plans of 
work for the coming year were discussed. 
After luncheon at Ida Noyes Hall, time was 
given for inspection of that beautiful building 
and its equipment, for visits to exhibits in 
the Home Economics Department, and for 
witnessing a test of basal metabolism with 
the apparatus in use there. 

The program for the afternoon provided 
for sections which met to organize for work 
and to discuss the problems of teaching in 
its various branches, of home-making, and 
of extension, institution, and social work. 
Each of these sections reported worth-while 
programs with a hopeful outlook for the 
future. One of the noteworthy and encour- 
aging aspects of the whole meeting was the 



response from all the groups who have a com- 
mon interest in the objects of the association. 

The discussion of possible lines of work to 
be undertaken this year narrowed itself into 
three fields — the nutrition of children, a sur- 
vey of home activities, and the use of tests 
in teaching. Each person who joined was 
asked to indicate the topic in which she was 
most interested, and state-wide committees 
are being formed to carr>' on the work. 

The officers elected at this meeting are: 
President, Dr. Katherine Blunt of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago; vice presidents, Ruth 
Wardall of the University of Illinois, and 
Mrs. John C. Hesslerof Galesburg; treasurer, 
Alice Treganza of Bloomington; secretary, 
Frances L. Swain of the Chicago Normal 
College. 

The Meeting of the Home Economics 
Section of the .Arkansas Education Associa- 
tion on November 10, 1921, was attended by 
150 home economics teachers. The subjects 
presented were as follows: Activities of the 
Home Economics Section, Stella Palmer; 
Social Hygiene, Marcella Arthur, Field 
Lecturer, State Board of Health; Problems 
in Home Management that Should be 
Taught in the School, Rowena Schmidt, 
University of Arkansas; Home Projects, 
Margaret Gregg and Mrs. G. S. Boggan. 

After the luncheon in the Blue Dragon 
Cafeteria, there was an open discussion on 
"Part-time Classes" and "Home Economics 
Equipment." The Scholarship Committee 
reported $175 on hand, and one girl sent 
through summer school. 

The Texas Home Economics Associa- 
tion, which is also The Home Economics 
Section of the State Teachers' Association, 
met in annual session on Friday, November 
25, in Dallas, Texas. The following program 
was given, Joan Hamilton, College of Indus- 
rial Arts, Denton, presiding: Affiliation with 
the .American Home Economics .Association, 
Bess Heflin, University of Texas; Vocational 
Aims and Jlethods in Home Economics 
Education, Dr. C. A. Prosser, Dunwoodie 
Institute; Home Projects, Genevieve Fisher, 
Federal Board for Vocational Education. 
Discussion: What entrance credit can be 



48 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January- 



given in colleges and universities for high 
school home economics work? — Miss Kent, 
Beaumont; Miss McFarlane, Denton; Miss 
Spencer, Dallas; Miss Lacey, University 
of Texas. 

At the annual meeting of the Texas State 
Teacher's Association in November, 1920, 
the four vocational sections, (agriculture, 
commercial, home economics, trade and 
industrial) federated into the Vocational 
Section. At the meeting, November, 1921, 
this vocational section became a State 
organization affiliated with the National 
Society for Vocational Education. 

The Philadelphia Home Economics 
Association at its October meeting was 
addressed by Mrs. Henrietta Calvin who 
spoke on the present need and trend of home 
economics education. She urged that all 
undergraduate college curricula should in- 
clude equal work in clothing and foods, 
and that they should further include courses 
in philosophy, sociology, and economics. 

Clara Pancake of the Philadelphia Normal 
School is president of the association. 

Home Economics Section, Central 
Ohio Teachers' Association. About 125 
were in attendance at the yearly meeting 
at Dayton, November 4, 1921. The fol- 
lowing program was presented, Frances M. 
Gregory of Steele High School presiding: 
Home Economics in the Future, Jlrs. Hen- 
rietta Calvin; Round Table discussions — 
WTiat can the home economics teacher do 
for the malnourished child? Leader, Kath- 
erine Jlay Hard}', Supervisor of Home 
Economics, Dayton; How can we emphasize 
practical skills in teaching Household .Arts? 
Leader, Julia E. Turner, Home Economics 
Department, Antioch CoUege; In what ways 
are we solving the problems of teaching 
foods in rural schools? Leader, JMarcella 
Payne, Home Demonstration Agent, Jlont- 
gomen.' County; How can we help to forward 
the plans of the American Home Economics 
Association? Leader, Louise M. Dom- 
busch. Stivers High School, Dayton. 

At the business meeting, following the 
program, resolutions were passed, to be for- 
warded to Washington, endorsing the Shep- 



pard-Towner biU, and favoring disarma- 
ment. Edith Gramm of Columbus was 
elected chairman, and Alice Siebler of Day- 
ton, secretary, for the 1922 meeting. 

A luncheon was held at the Dayton 
Women's Club, in honor of Mrs. Calvin. 
A reception and tea followed the meeting, 
and ilrs. Calvin was guest of honor at a 
diimer, at The Shrine Club, given by a 
group of institutional and other home 
economics workers. 

Home Economics Section, Northwest- 
ern Ohio Teachers' Association. A 

large number of home economics teachers 
gathered at a luncheon in the Lasalle Koch 
Tea Rooms in Toledo on October 28, 1921. 
They were addressed by Mrs. Maude Greg- 
ory Adams, Professor of Teacher Training 
in Home Economics. Her subject was 
Modern ^Methods of Teaching Home Eco- 
nomics. Mrs. Herman, manager of the 
Lasalle and Koch Tea Rooms, then talked 
on interesting phases of Tea Room Manage- 
ment, and the need of home economics 
trained women as assistants. The guests 
made a visit of inspection through the 
kitchens and work rooms. 

At the short business session it was voted 
to form the group into a permanent organ- 
ization which might be of help and strength 
to the State Home Economics .Association 
and to the home economics work in the north- 
western section of Ohio. Mrs. Harriet 
Weeks, Supervisor of Home Economics in 
the Public Schools of Toledo, was chairman 
of the meeting, and Miss Laura Heston, of 
Bowling Green Normal, Secretary. A com- 
mittee was appointed to draw up a consti- 
tution and by-laws for the permanent 
organization. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Southwestern Ohio Teachers' Associa- 
tion met October 28, at East High School, 
Cincinnati. The program was as follows: 
Teaching the Value of Hygienic, Artistic, 
Suitable Dress to High School Girls, Jessie 
Jackson and Bluma Franklin; Teaching 
Child Care and Personal Hygiene, Florine 
Vatter, Director of Smith-Hughes Work at 
East High School; Getting Over Food Facts 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



49 



and Habits, Julia Jolinson; Arousing the 
Interest of the Student in tlie High School 
Lunch, Miss Swischer, Miami University; 
The Part of the Home Economics Teaclier 
in Training for Wholesome Womanhood, 
Mrs. Norma Selbert, Professor of Public 
Health and Sanitation, Ohio State Uni- 
versity. 

.\s an illustration of arousing interest 
among younger children, pupils presented 
three playlets: "Teaching Motliers How to 
Dress Baby;" "Buying an Outfit for Mary, 
or the Fashion Show"; "Who Triumphs — 
King Coffee or King Milk?" Topics dis- 
cussed were: the use of illustrative material, 
sources of such material, the possibility 
of having girls of the seventh grade help in 
teaching food facts to the younger pupils, 
and the essential vitality of the work today. 

The program and discussion stressed the 
importance of adaptation of subject matter 
to the students taught, not only what is 
taught but the methods employed in making 
it of value to the children. 

Vocational Home Economics Teachers 

met in Denton, Texas, November 21-23. 
Each vocational home economics teacher 
was introduced to the conference group and 
given from one to three minutes to interest 
the others in her department. They were 
then taken for a tour of the College of Indus- 
trial Arts and were welcomed to the college 
by Dean E. V. White. The papers and dis- 
cussions that followed included Home 
Projects, The Clothing Course, Teacher- 
Training, Relating the Art Work to Home- 
making, Home Nursing, Nutrition Work in 
the Schools, and Home Management. 
Round Tables gave a choice of topics: note 
books, school lunch, physiology, affiliation, 
school program, report blanks, textbooks, 
reference books, illustrative material, equip- 
ment. 

There are about 45 vocational home eco- 
nomics teachers in the all day schools of 
Texas. 

University of Nevada. Beginning with 
this year, all girls enrolled in the Normal 
course are required to take one course in the 
Home Economics Department. This course 



attempts to give them a survey of the oppor- 
tunities for social service in rural communi- 
ties and some practical suggestions for 
meeting them. With this in mind, short 
units are being offered in home nursing and 
first aid, renovation and remodelling of 
clothes, children's clothes, textiles from the 
consumers standpoint, boys and girls club 
work, including camp cooker}', school 
lunches, child care, sanitation, and home 
decoration. 

Vocational High Schools in Nevada 

offer a two year's course in homemaking, 
and, due to the small size of the schools, it 
is only possible to schedule one class a day, 
to which students from all four years are 
admitted. This necessitates offering the 
work in two units of a year each, neither 
being prerequisite to the other. The voca- 
tional home economics teachers of the state 
have made the perfection of such a course 
one of their problems for the year. Any 
suggestions from other states that have had 
to deal with this same problem will be grate- 
fully received by the State Supervisor, Uni- 
versity of Nevada, Reno. 

Fellowships. Applications for the fel- 
lowships in the Departments of Household 
Administration and Home Economics of 
the University of Chicago for the year 
1922-23 should be addressed to the Deans 
of the Graduate Schools of Arts, Litera- 
ture, and Science, and should be in their 
hands on or before March first. Detailed 
information can be secured in advance by 
addressing the Deans. 

Elizabeth W. Miller, now professor of 
Home Economics at Ames, who received 
her doctor's degree last August, was the 
latest holder of one of these fellowships. 

In addition to these general university 
fellowships, two special fellowships in 
Home Economics, awarded for the past 
three years at the University of Chicago, 
are offered again next year. They carry 
$300 each and tuition. Applications, with 
recommendations and statement of training 
and experience, should be sent to the Chair- 
man of the Department of Home Economics 



50 



THE JOUllKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



or to the Dean of the Graduate Schools, 
before April 15, 1922. 

The successful candidate is expected to 
do research in some one line of home eco- 
nomics — nutrition, food chemistry and ex- 
perimental cooking, textiles, home manage- 
ment, home economics education — and at 
the same time to take courses in her chosen 
field. The work is planned to count toward 
the master's or doctor's degree. 

One of this year's fellows is Kate Duam 
who received her bachelor's and master's 
degrees from the University of Kansas. 
She has taught at Indiana University, 
University of Montana and University of 
Kansas, and has spent a short time in the 
Experimental Kitchen of the Office of Home 
Economics in Washington. The other is 
Ruth Cowan who holds the University of 
Chicago bachelor's degree and has taught 
at the University of Arkansas. Both of 
these women happen to be working in 
nutrition. 

Adah Hess, one of last year's fellows in 
home economics education, is now acting 
Smith-Hughes supervisor for lUinois. Her 
thesis, still in preparation, is on tests in 
teaching clothing. (See paper by Trilling 
and Hess, in the Joitrnal for October 
1921.) Marie Dye, the other fellow in 
1920-21, now holds a fellowship at the 
Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago. A part 
of her doctor's thesis. The Basal Metabolism 
of Women, was published in the Journal of 
Biological Chemistry, June, 1921. 

Food Forum at Teachers College. 

.^t the request of some of the women of the 
city who were especially interested in weights 
and measures, the October meeting of the 
Food Forum was entirely given over to that 
subject. 

An address was given by Mr. W. White, 
of the N. Y. Department of Farms and 
Markets, showing the responsibility of the 
housewife for what is really her own business, 
and telling of the help which the cooperation 
of the housewives can be to a state official 
who is trjdng to enforce honest weights and 
measures. Xo state can ever afford to hire 
a sufficiently large body of inspectors to 
prevent dishonesty. To check this evil 



the housewife must help, both by careful 
attention to her purchases at the store, and 
by installing some weights and measures 
in her own home. 

After the meeting there was an exhibit 
of good and bad types of household scales, 
and of faulty measures. The need for stand- 
ardization of containers was shown by the 
numerous baskets now in use. The weights 
of large paper bags and wooden trays were 
pointed out, showing the justice of the 
housewife's demand that these should not 
be weighed with her purchases. The 
waste and shrinkage of meat were illus- 
trated by roasts, steaks, and chops, as pur- 
chased, after cooking, and with the table 
discard. Other important points, such as 
including meat trimmings with purchases, 
were given especial attention at the meat 
exhibit. 

A Creed For Elementary Cooking 
Teachers. The New York City board of 
education has recently issued in pamphlet 
form a course of study and syllabus in 
cooking for use in the New York City 
elementary schools. The material is the 
result of much planning and work on the 
part of Grace Shermerhom, Director of 
Cooking in the N. Y. public schools, and 
the cooking teachers of the city schools. 

Doubtless nothing is more helpful in work 
than a statement of creed — the definite 
declaration of our aspirations and ideals — 
and this is done in the clear cut "Aims of 
Cooking in Elementary Schools" with which 
the syllabus is prefaced. A girl should know 
certain things at the end of the eighth year 
in school, and the things are Usted. This 
list does not state merely the dishes which 
she should be able to prepare. She should 
also know of the relations of food habits and 
health, and should have standards for food 
for children, laundry work, and house- 
keeping, together with an appreciation of 
the home and home problems. 

Everjwhere the work of the school is 
vitalized. It is suggested that the teacher 
visit the homes of the children of at least 
one of her classes so that she may know the 
t>pes of homes represented and their needs, 
and adapt her work accordingly. Sugges- 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



51 



tions are givcQ for the project method of 
teaching cooking, laundry, and housekeeping. 
The possibilities of correlation with other 
school work — geography, arithmetic and 
English — are suggested, as are methods for 
"getting over" the desired education. 

Altogether the pamphlet is not only a 
splendid practical help but a real inspiration 
for food teaching. 

Uncle Sam's Model Village. The 
report on the model village which the United 
States Public Health Service has been 
developing on the 516-acre Government res- 
er\-ation at Perryville, Md., shows some 
interesting facts. 

The birth rate of the reservation was 39.33 
per thousand, as against 24.39 in the whole 
state and 28.78 in the county. The death 
rate was only 3.67. In one year the per- 
centage of undenveight children was reduced 
from 42.7 to 13.8. 

The low prevalence of contagious disease is 
ascribed directly to close watch and prompt 
isolation, laboratory diagnosis, and prophy- 
la.xis; and indirectly to pasteurized milk, 
filtered and chlorinated water, school medical 
supervision, and good living conditions, 
including sewers, screens, and covered gar- 
bage cans. 

Practical Instruction in English 
Schools. Under the Education Act of 
1918, local educational authorities are 
required to make provision for practical 
instruction in the elmentary schools. This 
is defined as "instruction in cookery, 
la.undrywork, housewifery, dairy work, handi- 
craft gardening, and all such subjects as 
the Board declares to be subjects of practical 
instruction." 

By Circular 1161, dated May 19, 1920, 
the Board impressed upon local authorities 
the importance of widening and enlarging the 
character of the practical instruction^ 
and alluded to the desirability of experi- 
ments being made in new forms of practical 
work suited to particular schools or localities. 

The following table shows, for the latest 
years for which complete figures are avail- 
able, the number of centres and schools at 



which the instruction was given in each 
subject. 



Cookery 

Laundrywork 

Housewifery 

Combined "Domestic 

Subjects 

Mixed Courses in Do 

me&tic Subjects . . . 

Dairyworlc 

Handicraft 

Gardening 



NUUBEtt OF CENTRES AND 

SCHOOLS rN WHICH 
INSTRUCTION WAS GIVEN 



1917-18 1918-19 191^20 



Health Week, as arranged by the Royal 
Sanitary Institute, was observed in London, 
Oct. 9-15. The object of Health Week 
was to make health during the week the 
chief topic of public concern; to secure 
recognition of the fact that disease is a thing 
which can and should be prevented; to 
impart sound information as to public and 
personal hygiene; and to build up a public 
opinion which will not tolerate a high disease 
rate or excessive infant mortality, and which 
feels as a personal reproach the sight of an 
ill-nourished or neglected child. 

Health Week does not compete with other 
movements, but, on the contrary, seeks to 
gain fresh support for them, and the General 
Committee comprises representatives of 
almost every national health-promoting 
society in the Kingdom. 

In the list of Women In The Public 
Health Service are two officers holding 
commissioned rank in the reserve — Surgeons 
Lydia Allen DeVilbiss and Josephine Baker. 
Next in rank are acting assistant surgeons 
Blanche Sterling and Edith B. Lowry, 
Viola Russel, pediatrist, and Elizabeth B. 
Reid, all of the child hygiene section; 
Ida A. Bengston, sanitary biologist, Alice C. 
Evans and Mrs. E. M. A. Enlows, bacteri- 
ologists, and Mrs. S. C. Brooks, assistant 
biologist, all of the Hygienic Laboratory; 
Gertrude Seymour, president of the Ameri- 



52 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



can Women in Public Health, and Drs. 
Daisy Robinson and Edith Rabe, regional 
consultants, all of the venereal diseases 
division. 

Several large groups of highly trained 
women have been organized. Among these 
are the aides, numbering about 400, headed 
by Marian Morriss. 

The dietitans' section, organized to take 
over from the pharmacists the victualing 
and food administration of the military 
hospitals, numbers 200. All the members 
of the section, which is headed by Mrs. 
H. B. Corsette, are graduates of schools of 
home economics. 

The nurses' corps, headed by Lucy Min- 
negerode, numbers 1 ,400 and needs 300 more. 
Another body of nurses, 165 in number, 
work in clinics and miscellaneous health 
activities under the supervision of Ann 
Doyle 



of the local board of civil service examiners 
at the post office or customhouse in any city. 

Teacher Trainers. Some of the newly 
appointed members of the teacher-trainer 
departments are as follows: Margaret 
Jones, Alabama Technical Institute and 
College for Women, Montevallo; Mabel V. 
Campbell, University of Kentucky, Lexing- 
ton; Josephine Hart, State Agricultural 
College, East Lansing, Mich.; Beulah I. 
Coon, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; 
Emma Baie, State Agricultural College, 
Durham, N. H.; Blanche GiUmore, State 
Agricultural College, State College, N. JL; 
Nora Ella Miller, State Agricultural College, 
Stillwater, Okla.; IVIrs. Ida S. Harrington, 
State College, Kingston, R. I.; AUce Kewley, 
State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah; 
Mrs. Edna Coith Atkinson, State College 
for Women, Tallahassee, Fla. 



Dietitians Needed in United States 
Public Health Service. The United 
States Civil Service Commission states 
that there is need for a considerable number 
of dietitians in the Public Health Service 
at hospitals throughout the Uruted States 
and that until further notice it will receive 
applications for such positions. 

The basic entrance salary offered is S960 
a year with possible promotion to the basic 
pay of $1344 a year. To all salaries there 
is added the increase of S20 a month granted 
by Congress. In addition, quarters and 
subsistence are furnished free by the Govern- 
ment. AppUcants are not required to undergo 
a written examination, but are rated upon 
the subjects of general education, weighted 
at 30 per cent, and technical training and 
experience, weighted at 70 per cent. 

Full information and application blanks 
may be obtained by communicating with 
the United States Civil Service Commission, 
Washington, D. C, or with the secretary 



New State Supervisors of Home 
Economics. Kate L. Bear, Arizona; Adah 
Hess, Assistant, Illinois; Ruth Freegard, 
Michigan; Clare E. White, Missouri; Ida 
F. Carr, Assistant, Nebraska; Katherine 
Moran, Assistant, North Carolina; Mrs. 
Ida S. Harrington, Rhode Island; Lena K. 
Pierce, Tennessee; Jessie Winchell, Vermont. 



Mrs. Martha H. French, formerly 
State Supervisor of Vocational Home 
Economics for Micliigan, is now Vocational 
Director at Ellis College, Philadelphia. 

The University of Pennsylvania has 

discontinued the technical courses given in 
home economics. An arrangement has been 
perfected whereby the Pennsylvania stu- 
dents may enter the regular classes at Dre.xel 
Institute. 



1922] AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 53 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

With the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., Chicago, February 28, March 1 
AND 2, 1922 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, RED ROOM, HOTEL LASALLE 

9.00 a.m. Council Meeting 

10.00 a.m. General Session. Mary Sweeny, President, presiding 

President's Address 

Topic: Nutrition of Children 

Tlie Feeding and Ptiysiology of Children 

Amy L. Daniels, Child Research Station, University of Iowa 
Questions and discussion from the floor 
Suggestions for Nutrition Work in the Schools Based on Results of Health Surveys 

Lydia J. Roberts, University of Chicago 
Five minute reports of class room work 

2.30 p.m. Trips and Inspection of Exhibits 

WEDNESDAY, UARCH 1 , RED ROOM, HOTEL LASALLE 

9.30 a.m. General Session. Jenny H. Snow, Chairman of Teaching Section, 
presiding 

Topic: A Basis for Forming Home Economics Courses 

A Psychologist's Viewpoint, Instincts as a Basis for Some Home Economics Problems 

Stella Vincent, Chicago Normal College 
Discussion: Emma Conley, State Department of Vocational Education, New York 
Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, U. S. Bureau of Education 
Mrs. Helen Thompson Wooley, Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit 
Anna E. Richardson, Federal Board for Vocational Education 
Mabel T. Wellman, Indiana University 
Open discussion from the floor 

2.30 p.m. Trips and Inspection of Exhibits 

8.00 p.m. Dinner at The Chicago College Club with Short Speeches 

THURSDAY, MARCH 2, THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

10.00 a.m. General Session. Katharine Blunt presiding 

What the Office of Home Econoroics is Doing for the Secondary School Teacher 

Muma C. Denton, Assistant Chief, Oflice of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 
Topic : Tests in Teaching Home Economics 

Presentation of Tests with Practical Demonstration by Elementary and High School 

Pupils 
Clothing: Mabel Tr illin g, University of Chicago 

Florence Williams, Supervisor, Richmond, Indiana 

.^dah Hess, Acting State Supervisor of Home Economics Education, Illinois 
Food: Grace Mc Adam, Supervisor Domestic Science, Detroit 
Reports of Tests Given in Public Schools of Chicago and Other Cities 



54 THE JOtTENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fjanuarv 

1.00 p.m. Luncheon at Ida Noyes Cafeteria 

Visits to Laboratories of Home Economics Department. Demonstration of Determinations 
of Basal Metabolism 

Arrangements have been made for a number of trips which may be taken on the after- 
noons of Tuesday and Wednesday. Some of these are listed below. It may be possible to 
arrange for other visits if the committee is notified in advance. There will be a desk at the 
Hotel LaSalle on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday where information may be obtained and 
registration for trips may be made. 

An exhibit of the work in the Public .Schools will be open throughout the week. 
Suggested Trips: 

Wholesale Establishment of JIarshall Field and Company 

Cold Storage Plants and Commission Houses 

Nutritional Work with Children, Cook County Hospital 

Nutrition Clinic, Municipal Tuberculosis Sanitarium 

Penny Lunches and Lunch Rooms in Elementary and High Schools 

Day Nursery and Class in Child Care, Winchell Continuation School 

Home Economics Classes in Continuation Schools 

Housekeeping Centers 

Unit Kitchens in Jones and Nash Schools 

Regular Work in Elementary and High School Classes 

Address any requests for information to Frances L. Swain, ,S821 Dorchester Ave., Chicago. 



Vol. XIV, No. 2 February, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Maev de Gaemo Bryan, Editor Ketorab E. Bau)win, Business Ediitt 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Maby H. Abel C. F. Lanoworthv Amy Daniels Katbaeine Fisheb Grace G. Denny 

Editor of "The Question Box," Amy Daniels 
Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazzard, Social Welfare 
Florence Ward. Extension 

Katharine Blunt and Sybil Woodruff. Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell, Education 
Ruth O'Brien. Tejtiles 
Henrietta French, Institution Economics 
Alice Biester, Bibliography 

Collaborators— Tbe Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Need for Recogotzing Art Principles in the Te.\ching of Home Economics 

Ellen Hillstrom 55 

Home EcoNomcs for Boys Mary Ruth Fisher 59 

How China Uses the Soy Bean as Food William Henry Adolph 63 

Perhaps the Chestnut Tree Can Be Restored Mabel Asbury 69 

Report of the Sub-Committee on Collegiate Training of Dietitians . Abby Marlatt 71 
Report of Sub-Committee on Teaching Dietetics to Student Nurses . Katherine Fisher 75 
Report of Sub-Comihttee on Professional Training of Dietitians in Hospitals and 

Medical Schools Rnth Wheeler 81 

Editorial 83 

The Open Forum 85 

Books and LrrERAXtmE 91 

News from the Field 97 

The Summer Meeting in Corvallis 97 



The Journal oe Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.5« A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 30 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Rotton; 
A. C. McCIurg & Co., Chicago; Hochscliild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Washington. 



JOVRSAL OF HOilE ECOXOMICi—ADVERnSEilEXTS 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 



The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 

ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 




«-^^ 



In v.-ritinj advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XrV FEBRU.\RY, 1922 Xo. 2 



THE NEED FOR RECOGNIZING ART PRINCIPLES IN THE 
TEACHING OF HOME ECONOMICS' 

ELLEN HELLSTEOM 
Assistant Professor of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin 

Art is such an integral part of home economics that it is impossible 
to separate one from the other. Art is woven into the very aim of 
home economics teaching, namely, to prepare for the art of right liv- 
ing. Side by side with the knowledge and technique to be gained in 
courses in foods, clothing, and house decoration is the art involved in 
each; and the course, no matter how elementary it may be, which 
fails to develop the art side, has neglected a subject of vital importance 
in the lives of the students. 

How shall we develop this art side? How shaU we meet the need for 
recognizing art principles in the teaching of home economics? In the 
first place, the teacher must have confidence in her own artistic ability. 
"But," some may say, "I have no artistic ability. I am no artist, I 
cannot draw." 

Surely art is not limited to drawing. All art is good arrangement bo 
matter what the medium used. It is doing a thing in the finest way it 
can be done. Often it means doing a commonplace thing in an uncom- 
monplace way. The girl who arranges a dining table, the girl who 
deals with a plain dress pattern, the woman who has a house to furnish, 
each may become an artist in her line as may the painter who works on a 
canvas or the sculptor or potter who works with clay. In each case, the 

' Address delivered before the Home Economics Section of the Wisconsin State T«achers 
Aseodation, Milwaukee, Nov. 1921. 

55 



56 THE jouEKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

art of it calls for respect for a plan to be executed, appreciation of fine 
arrangement, and ability to execute the plan in mind. Such qualifica- 
tions manifest themselves even in the simplest tasks of everyday life. 
We say of one person that she has good taste in dress. What do we 
mean? Simply that she has shown an appreciation of line, mass, and 
color in dress that are becoming to her; and that she has the ability to 
select, out of the clothing she sees in the shops, just what is appropriate 
for her for various occasions. Moreover, she herself may have ability 
to create garments that are becoming and unusual. But such power is 
not acquired without effort. Good taste does not impose itself on an 
individual. Both ability to select and power to create are the result of 
many experiences, not merely of making a choice, but of selecting the 
most appropriate, of securing inspiration from choices made by others, 
of trying again. 

But you have some artistic ability now! The fact that you have 
chosen the profession of home economics proves that some of that artis- 
tic instinct must lie in matters that relate to dress and to the home. 
You care how you dress; you select a certain hat because it is becoming to 
you and because it harmonizes with your dress; you often select a restau- 
rant or a tearoom because you know it serves food well; you select certain 
furnishings for your room because they meet your needs and because you 
believe they are appropriate and beautiful. To the extent that you do 
care, you have an appreciation of art. To the extent that you do have 
power to make good choices, you have artistic ability. You must find 
where your best art interests lie and make use of them, give them proper 
exercise, make them grow. 

In the second place, to meet the need for recognizing art prmciples in 
the teaching of home economics, the teacher must realize that she has 
a great responsibility in matters of art as it relates to dress and to 
the home. By showing good taste in her own dress, she may teach 
more than she realizes in costimie design; by showing the art possibili- 
ties of the simple dress pattern, she may do more to discourage fads and 
extravagance than by merely talking against them; by showing good 
taste in the appearance of the school room, she has a wonderful op- 
portunity to create a desire for more orderly, more appropriate, 
more beautiful surroundings elsewhere. The importance of an orderly 
arrangement in the cooking room or the sewing room, of appropriate 
pictures, of personal touches in flowers and vases, of a change in 
arrangement from time to time in the rest room can hardly be over- 



1922] RECOGXIZIKG ART PRINCIPLES IN HOME ECOXOMICS 57 

estimated. This is not so much a matter of the money spent as of 
judgment in selection. No teacher can afford to be without sur- 
roundings that will inspire art efforts in her students. Furthermore, 
the teacher ought to appreciate the value of using well-selected, illustra- 
tive material in connection with her work. Many excellent prints and 
photographs can be had if one will but investigate. Moreover, stores are 
generally willing to cooperate with any teacher who wishes to use their 
material. The teacher should avail herself of these opportunities, and 
select materials which will emphasize important considerations in her 
teaching and which will inspire students to do better work. Do you, 
as a teacher, give of what you know about art? No teacher can ever 
give all she knows because, when she exercises her own power, it yields 
increased power of judgment and appreciation in return. 

In the third place, the teacher must provide exercises which involve 
planning, making comparisons, choosing the most appropriate, and seek- 
ing inspiration from good examples made by others. Though no teacher 
can give art to her students (for art is an individual expression which 
has been developed within the student's mind), she can provide exer- 
cises which may stimulate artistic effort and increase the power to appre- 
ciate or to produce art. She may provide exercises which will give these 
powers an opportunity to act in such a way that the result is an art 
effort. She may encourage art effort by constructive criticism. She 
may inspire greater art effort by showing the students a wise selection 
of illustrative material. She may cause students to have confidence in 
their own ability by emphasizing from time to time the good qualities 
of whatever they do. 

Let us take, for example, a problem that might be used in any high 
school class — that of planning and making a dress appropriate for school 
for winter wear. Each student is to use a plain dress pattern, but 
vary it so that the result will be an individual dress appropriate for her. 
Most students can at first see nothing beyond the plain dress made from 
a plain dress pattern, which does not sound at all interesting. Here is the 
teacher's opportunity: First, to place before her students a number of 
well selected possibilities of the plain dress pattern, and to explain that 
these show what others have done with that pattern. Second, to ask the 
students to select from these the ones they like and to explain why they 
like them. (The teacher should take time here for constructive criticism 
in matters of appropriate material and trimming, and in good line and 
color for various individuals in the class.) Third, to lay aside the 



58 THE joxJENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

illustrative material so that the students will not depend on it; then to 
ask the students to discuss the plans they have for their dresses. This 
should be followed by criticisms and suggestions from the other stu- 
dents, guided by the teacher. It is the exceptional student who does 
not at this stage have some plan. Fourth, to allow the students to put 
forth their own art efforts which involve planning, making comparisons, 
choosing the most appropriate. 

In addition to the technique of sewing and a knowledge of stitches 
and materials, the student has gained an experience in the art of design- 
ing. She has exercised the powers that judge and those that execute. 
It is by such exercise that her artistic ability develops. What is true 
of the dress problem is equally true of any problem that involves 
arrangement. 

In the fourth place, to meet the need for recognizing art principles in 
the teaching of home economics, the teacher should strive to encourage 
the student's art efforts. When a student has done the best she can, her 
work deserves careful and tactful consideration from the other students, 
guided by the teacher. No student's effort is so poor that one cannot 
find a place on which to build constructive criticism. Such criticism 
picks out the good qualities and buUds on them. It helps the student 
to see her mistakes almost instinctively. Moreover, it helps her to see 
how she can improve, and it leaves her with a desire-to do better. Noth- 
ing can so easily destroy art effort, discourage a student, and cause her 
to lose confidence in her own ability as emphasizing mistakes. 

Finally, it is important to emphasize two very desirable qualities in 
art; namely, sincerity and simplicity. By sincerity in dress we mean 
material and design that are appropriate for the occasion and for the 
wearer. By sincerity in decoration in a home we mean furnishings 
that are appropriate for that particular home. By simplicity, we mean 
the absence of anything that is elaborate. Uphold the idea that where a 
good, simple arrangement satisfies all wants, it is generally the most 
appropriate one. 

The results hoped for in the recognition of art principles in the teach- 
ing of home economics are far reaching. From the standpoint of the 
student, they may be summed up in these six points: First, clear and 
orderly thinking about any arrangement — arrangement of furnishings 
in a room, pictures on a wall, flowers in a garden, food on the table or 
lunch counter. Second, appreciation of what is appropriate and beauti- 
ful for the home and for dress — for the home in which she lives, for the 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS FOR BOYS 59 

occasion for which she dresses. Third, ability to choose wisely. The 
majority must rely on what fashion produces. Power to discriminate 
between the appropriate and the inappropriate is worth cultivating. 
Fourth, confidence in her own ability to choose wisely. Fifth, a desire 
to venture into something new, to create. No problem, no matter 
how well it be done, has served its fullest purpose if it does not leave the 
student with a desire to try it again, to do it in a different way, to make 
something finer. Sixth, respect for the art in work, no matter what 
the work, or what the medium used. 

From the standpoint of the teacher, the results hoped for are three: 
First, a realization of the teacher's own responsibility in matters of 
art in her own field. In her student's eyes the teacher is an example of 
the art she expounds in her teaching. Often she has expressed herself 
more than she realizes. Second, a fuller realization of the importance 
of the art side as well as the technical side of home economics. Third, 
a desire on the part of the home economics teacher, herself, for more art 
in connection with her teaching. This is an ideal toward which we 
should all strive; and, when a teacher of home economics feels the need 
of closer contact with art, provision will no doubt be made for an 
art teacher who can relate art in home economics more closely to art in 
other fields. 



HOME ECONOMICS FOR BOYS 

MARY RUTH FISHER 
Supervisor of Home Economics, Twin Falls, Idaho 

If home economics deals so vitally with life, the home, and home prob- 
lems, is the feminine part of our population to be the only really effi- 
cient citizen of tomorrow? Why should not boys as well as girls learn 
something of home problems? Will our boys become effeminate if 
they take a course in home economics, not a cookery course, as is some- 
times given in the same class with girls, but a course especially suited 
to their needs? WTiy should not a boy be taught something of food 
values? He will probably eat three meals a day as long as he lives. 
Why not select them inteUigently? Why should not a boy be taught 
something of the care and feeding of children? He will probably have 
a home of his own some day and it is to be hoped he will have children 



60 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

in that home. If he knows something of the care of those children 
will he be less efficient as a father? Why should not a boy know some- 
thing of the duties of a host? Would he not be saved from many an 
embarrassing situation if he possessed such knowledge? Why should 
not a boy know something of the care of the sick? Many a man during 
our nation wide influenza epidemic would have given all he possessed 
for some such knowledge. 

As these and many other thoughts passed through my mind I decided 
to plan a course in home economics for boys that would answer, in a 
small measure, some of these questions. Such a course, as outlined 
below, was offered last semester in our high school and enthusiastically 
completed by twenty boys. 

The course was open only to Juniors and Seniors. The recitation 
period was forty-live minutes long, five days a week for eighteen weeks. 
Some of the lessons had to be given in the evening and these lasted 
from six to nine o'clock. The course was divided into six units, from 
two to four weeks being spent on each unit. Following are the units, 
listed in the order studied: — 1. Food values and body needs. 2. Tex- 
tiles and clothing — what to wear, color combinations. 3. Budgets — 
spending and saving. 4. Emergencies — first aid, home care of sick. 
5. Duties of a host — carving, serving, etiquette. 6. Cookery — camp 
and home. 

The personnel of the class was quite athletic. Five of the "all state" 
foot ball men, four of the first team basket ball fellows, and the "all 
state" sprinter were enrolled; so that the class as a whole was very much 
interested in health and strength. This gave a good opportunity for 
our opening unit, foods. 

Never have I had a class that wanted to go so deeply into the chemis- 
try of foods. They were not content to accept a statement without 
knowing the reason. We studied digestion and the digestive tract. 
We studied food values and our individual body needs. In the light of 
our studies we examined our own food habits and found their faults. 
The consideration of what to eat before an athletic contest proved most 
interesting and beneficial, not only to the members of the class but to 
the whole team to which they belonged. One thing especially helpful 
was the selecting of correct meals from various hotel and restaurant 
menu cards. 

The second unit — clothing and textiles — was undertaken with just a 
little uncertainty on the part of the instructor, for many men consider 



1922J HOME ECONOMICS TOR BOYS 61 

clothing purely a feminine subject. We studied the manufacture, use, 
care, adulteration, of the four textile fabrics and tested the fabrics in the 
laboratory. I had collected fifty or more samples of materials used for 
men's clothing. These we studied very thoroughly. We discussed 
cleaning of clothing and visited a dry cleaning establishment; we pressed, 
folded for packing, and mended small tears in garments. We discussed 
what to wear on various occasions and considered, briefly, color com- 
binations. Many articles of clothing, purchased after the study of 
this unit, were brought to me to show the excellent bargains secured 
because they knew something of textiles. Ties, shirts, suits, and all 
clothing are now purchased more intelligently by these boys. In the 
language of one of the boys "I don't feel so completely at the mercy of 
the salesman, now, when I buy clothing." 

The country is considering so seriously the question of thrift that 
material for our third unit, budgets, was almost unlimited. When the 
class started I had each boy keep his own expense account so that we 
might have some personal data when we studied this unit. After only 
six weeks of account keeping most of the boys were greatly surprised to 
see the amount spent on pleasure such as movies, bowUng, skating. We 
figured a complete clothing budget for a high school boy, we planned 
personal and family budgets. Each boy took a yearly income, tjrpical 
of those received in this section, and planned a budget for a family 
of five. Many of the boys said it was the first time they appreciated 
what their fathers had been carrying for many years. We investigated 
all kinds of savings, bonds, building and loan associations, savings ac- 
counts, life insurance, thrift stamps. A prominent business man, a 
banker, talked to the boys on "banking, savings, and investments." 
We learned the proper way to write and endorse checks, drafts, and 
money orders. Many of the boys opened personal savings accounts 
during this unit and all of them had a better understanding of money 
matters. 

The emergency and first aid unit was supplemented with "home care 
of sick" instruction. During the first part we combined the Boy Scout 
and Red Cross work, selecting what would prove especially helpful to 
boys. We studied bandaging, artificial respiration, fainting, burns, and 
poisons of aU kinds. As a side issue we worked out a system of exercises 
for morning use to keep us physically fit. The boys requested so much 
during every unit that it was difi&cult to select the most important 
things. During the consideration of "The Home Care of Sick" we 



62 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

studied foods for the patient, home made devices for the comfort of the 
patient, care of the patient in bed, changing the bed, filling hot water 
bottles, giving medicines, and other simple nursing instructions. 

Unit number live was perhaps the one enjoyed most. Some of these 
lessons were given in the evening, as forty five minutes was not long 
enough for many of them. We were frank in our discussion of standards 
of conduct between boys and girls; we discussed etiquette of all kinds 
and for all occasions, wrote and answered notes, invitations, congratula- 
tions, and condolences; we had dinner parties, just the boys, where they 
did all the carving and serving, and their table manners were criticized. 
We had a buffet luncheon, chafing dish party, and a reception. Many 
of the instructors in the high school said they could pick out, in any so- 
cial gathering, the boys who had taken the home economics course. 
Many girls have told me that the same boys have changed decidedly in 
their actions towards a girl when alone with her. 

The last unit was not carried out so fully as planned on account of 
slight changes in the school schedule. However we learned to prepare 
those foods most frequently attempted by men — eggs, hot breads, 
coffee, meats. We had planned to do all our work in the open, over a 
camp fire but because of certain changes the cookery was done in the 
laboratory. We did a small amount of invalid cookery. 

It was the unanimous opinion of the boys that the course should be a 
year in length rather than one semester and that it should be made com- 
pulsory. The school librarian said there never had been a course offered 
in the high school where reference reading was done so faithfully by the 
whole class. After the course started, many boys, not enrolled for the 
work, came to me with all kinds of questions along all kinds of lines. In 
such a course a few of the questions asked at the first of this article can 
be, in a small measure, answered. Home economics for boys! Does 
it pay? Decidedly! It requires an immense amount of work, but the 
returns more than justify the effort. 



1922] HOW CHINA USES THE SOY BEAN AS FOOD 63 

HOW CHINA USES THE SOY BEAN AS FOOD 

WILLIAM HENRY ADOLPH 
Associate Professor of Chemistry, Shantung Christian University, China 

The word "bean" in China invariably means the soy bean. This is 
not because there are no other varieties to be found in the orient, but 
the soy bean is the most democratic kind of bean and is the one variety 
which the large bulk of the Chinese race meets daily. The Occident 
has been under the impression that the Chinese live on rice. This is 
true only in the southern half of China, and even there the diet is mixed 
with soy bean products. North China, including Shantung and Man- 
churia, the original home of the soy bean, uses large quantities of wheat 
bread instead of rice as the staple of every day life, and in addition 
large quantities of soy bean products. If we are to correct our tradi- 
tional view of the rice diet, we can amend our statement by saying that 
it is the soy bean which is probably the most universal article in the 
Chinese dietary. When the Chinese finds it necessary to distinguish 
between the soy bean and other varieties of bean, he refers to the soy 
bean as the yellow bean (Jiwang dou) , and this is the name most common 
throughout the orient. There have been already distinguished about 
300 varieties of the soy bean {Glycine hispida)} The yellow variety 
Ito San is the most common variety in China. 

The use of the soy bean in China dates back to the beginning of China's 
agricultural age under the Emperor Shen Nung. It is mentioned in the 
Ben Tsao Gang Mu, the ancient materia medica, written by Shen Nung 
himself in the year 2838 B.C. The oriental is amused that we now 
look upon this ordinary yellow bean with such regard, and that we now 
give it such a place of honor in our food laboratories. We, on the other 
hand, are surprised that China has possessed and concealed this treas- 
ure for four thousand years or more, and we are reminded that she 
may have still other original contributions to make to western dietetic 
science. 

This present paper is a summary of some studies which have been 
made in the Shantung Christian University laboratory on soy bean 
products.^ An examination of the chemical composition of the soy bean 
(see Table 1) brings out the fact that, from the chemical point of view 

' U. S. Dept. of .Agriculture, B. P. I. Bui. No. 197. 

' The author is indebted to several of his students for assistance in securing some of the 
data included in the tables. 



64 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

at least, it is a well-balanced food, especially rich in protein. The recent 
world shortage of food, and the demand for foods which are high in 
nutritive value, has turned the attention of dietitians to the possibil- 
ities of the soy bean, and to some of its important products as they 
have been used in the orient for centuries. 

The soy bean is known to the chemical world as the source of the 
urease of Takeuchi,' which has been apphed to biochemical analysis. 
The literature of the past ten years on the soy bean is voluminous. A 
nimiber of important investigations have been concerned specifically 
with its nutritive value. Street and Bailey^ report the existence of a 
nimiber of valuable enzymes and a large content of galactans and pento- 
sans. Osborne and Mendel,^^ and Daniels and Nichols^ determined that 
the yellow soy bean contains a high percentage of physiologically good 
protein, a considerable amount of energy-yielding fat and carbohydrate, 
and a sufficiency of fat-soluble A and water-soluble B vitamines. It 
is found, however, that there is a deficiency of mineral constituents, 
namely, calcium, sodium, and chlorides (see Table III). This last is 
perhaps the principal deficiency of the soy bean as a food. It is recog- 
nized that the elements calcium, sodiimi, and chlorine are of excep- 
tional importance in nutrition, this fact having been noticed particu- 
larly in places where the water used for drinking purposes is nearly 
free from lime and sodium chloride. McCollum and Simmonds' as- 
sert that the "efficient utihzation of food by growing animals is not 
possible when the diet is deficient in these elements." Apart from this, 
the interesting point remains that the soy bean seems to be the only 
seed, with one or two exceptions, which contains in itself a sufficiency 
of two of the dietary essentials or vitamines. The factors involved in 
a good food are probably only partly concerned with the proper ratios 
of protein, fat, and carbohydrate, and with the availability of these 
groups of nutrients, but are also concerned with the presence or absence 
of the so-called vitamines. 

During the last few years, the soy bean has found application in the 
infant dietary, and has become one of the recognized diabetic foods. 
One of the most satisfactory forms of artificial milk is made from soy 

» Takeuchi: /. Col. Agr., Univ. Tokyo, 1 , 1 (1909). 

* Street and Bailey: /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 7 : 853 (1915). 

' Osborne and Mendel: Proc. Soc. Exp. Med., 14 : 174 (1917). 

« Osborne and Mendel: J. Biol. Chem., 32 : 369 (1917). 

' Daniels and Xichols: /. Biol. Chem., 32 : 91 (1917). 

» McCollum and Simmonds: /. Biol. Chem., 32 : 29 (1917). 



1922] HOW CHINA USES THE SOY BEAN AS FOOD 65 

beans. Some of the bread used by the French in the recent war was made 
essentially from soy bean flour. The soy bean was introduced into 
France about the middle of the eighteenth century, but only in compara- 
tively recent years was it introduced into America, England, and Ger- 
many. There has been established in France for a number of years a 
factory under Chinese management for the production of a large num- 
ber of soy bean products. The oil, pressed or extracted from the bean, 
has been long used in the Far East in cooking, and during the last year 
or two has risen to be the leading article of export from China. Many 
investigators have shown the essential economic features of the soy 
bean. It yields more seed per acre, is more cheaply harvested than 
any other variety of bean, and only under exceptional conditions is it 
attacked by weevils. Each one of the by-products is valuable in the 
industries or for food. 

EXPERIMENTAL 

All data in the accompanying tables are for the yeUow soy beau and its products as pur- 
chased on tlie streets of Tsinan, the capital of Shantung province. The figures below on 
the soy bean itself accord with the commonly accepted data on the yellow soy bean as it 
appears in the United States. 

TABLE I. 
A nalysis of soy bean % 

Water 6 .43 

Protein 39.30 

Fat 18.70 

N-free extract 24.80 

Fiber 5 . 82 

Ash 4.95 

The soy bean as such is not very largely used as food in China, but it is the source of a 
large number of products. It would be impossible to make a complete list of all these. The 
best known and the most important are the bean milk, bean curd, bean sauce (soy), bean 
sprouts, bean oil, and bean cake. The student of nutrition is particularly interested in the 
bean curd or -'bean cheese." 

Soy bean cheese. In manufacturing bean cheese the soy beans are ground up with water 
and strained. The resulting colloidal solution is the soy bean milk, and has the same appear- 
ance as cow's milk. Its specific gravity is slightly greater than the latter. The bean residue 
which does not pass through the sieve is used as feed for hogs. Upon coagulation, this solu- 
tion yields the soy bean curd, often called Chinese cheese. As far as is known, there are four 
agents employed in China to effect this coagulation. These are: (1) lu, the solid residue 
prepared by the evaporation of salt bittern; (2) gypsum; (3) swan giang. the soured bean 
milk whey remaining from the previous coagulation of bean curd; and (4) vinegar. The 
quantities of materials employed and the details of manipulation vary, of course, over differ- 
ent parts of China. A large variety of substances could be used to effect this coagulation. 

In spite of the tremendous consumption of bean curd in China, the industry does not 
center in large factories, but myriads of small shops, as numerous as our own candy stores and 



66 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

fruit stands, make and supply the daily needs in bean curd for the millions throughout the 
Chinese republic. Every small tovvTi has at least one bean curd shop. Good bean curd 
must be manufactured fresh every day. The coagulated curd is white in color and resembles 
our cottage cheese. After coagulation it is pressed between cloths, cut up into squares or 
moulded into calces about five inches in diameter and an inch thick, and sold to the Chinese 
housewife. A cake of the size indicated costs approximately $.01 in U. S. currency. The 
cakes of bean curd may also be salted and dried, yielding a product which resembles our cream 
cheese. 

Tradition says that the manufacture of soy bean curd was originated in China in 164 B. C. 
during the reign of the Emperor Han Wen, by a man named Liu An, the duke of Hwai Nan. 
The common Chinese name for soy bean curd is doufit, often romanized tofu; and the classical 
name is li chi, probably meaning "the morning prayer." It is interesting to note that in 
China at the present day the bean curd is made in the early hours of the morning, and sold at 
daybreak. 

Liu An was a great friend of the Buddhist monks, and it seems quite probable that he 
invented this bean curd in order to provide a change or delicacy to break the monotony of 
the monastic ration. As a matter of fact, bean curd is a real delicacy if carefully made and 
well cooked. Chinese who are cormoisseurs on the subject assert that when so prepared it 
has the taste of pig's brain. Americans and Europeans eating Chinese food often eat care- 
fully prepared bean curd thinking it is pork. With sugar it produces a dish like custard. 
Prepared with salt it resembles scrambled eggs. 

The Tsinan variety of bean curd is made e.xclusively with the use of lu as a coagulating 
agent. In the following table the analyses of bean curd are compared with that of common 
cottage cheese. 

TABLE IL 

Analysis of soy bean curd compared with collage cheese 

Soy bean Cottage Dried soy 

curd cheese bean curd 

percent percent percent 

Water 82.83 53.0 43.2 

Protein 10.00 19.6 25. 

Fat 3.67 23.2. 12.6 

N-free extract 2.70 2.1 5.8 

Ash 0.80 2.1 13.4 

It was interesting to note in dealing with a large number of samples of bean curd that 
the water content of the bean curd manufactured by any one shop is quite constant. Our 
experience showed that it was constant within one or two per cent. If calculated on the 
basis of water-free content, the above analyses indicate that bean curd is somewhat richer 
in protein than the curd obtained from cow's milk, although it is lower in fat value. 

The ash of the local soy bean curd was also analyzed. Table III indicates the composition 
of the ash of the soy bean. 

It is important to note, in the analysis, the higher values for calcium, sodium, and chlo- 
rine in the ash of the soy bean curd. The nutrition work on the soy bean itself, referred 
to above, indicated that its shortcoming lay in the low values for these important mineral 
constituents. It would seem, however, in the case of this particular one of the soy bean 
products, that not only has a refined preparation of protein been produced, but in its prepara- 
tion have been added just those inorganic substances which help to bring it up to the rank 
of a food of high physiological value. 



1922] HOW CHINA USES THE SOY BEAN AS FOOD 67 

TABLE III. 

Analysis of ash of soy bean curd 

(In percentage of water-free portion) 

Ashof 

Soy Bean Curd 

per cent 

CaO 0.57 

MgO ; 0.60 

KjO 0.71 

Na,0 0.33 

PsOs . 79 

CI 0.38 

S 0.09 

Fe 0.01 

Soy bean milk. Soy bean milk in composition is not far different from cow's rrulk. In 
many places in China, bean milk is a food drink. It is usually drunk sweetened with sugar. 
We of the west employ a number of patented methods for removing the "beany taste" objec- 
tionable from the point of view of the western consumer. In the following table, soy bean 
milk, as produced in China, is compared with the western standard for cow's milk. 

TABLE IV. 
Analysis of bean milk compared with cow's milk 

Bean milk Cow's milk* Bean milk whey 

per cent per cent per cent 

Water 90.71 87.0 97.79 

Protein 4.22 3.3 0.60 

Fat 1.87 4.0 0.47 

N-free extract 2.80 5.0 0,80 

Ash 0.40 0.7 0.34 

On examining bean rmlk under the microscope, it is interesting to note the fine state of 
emulsion of the bean oil globules. Ladd'" has invented a homogenizing machine for the 
emulsifying of vegetable oils for difficult infant feeding. It would seem, however, that the 
Chinese soy bean milk contains such an oil already emulsified. 

Soy bean sprouts. Soy beans soaked in water and allowed to sprout are much relished as a 
vegetable by the Chinese. Very considerable quantities of soy bean are used in this way. 
The sprouts are usually cooked in oil, and produce a dish which appeals very strongly to the 
taste of Americans in China. It is strongly recommended for use as a vegetable on the 
American table. 

TABLE V. 

Analysis of soy bean sprouts 

per cent 

Water 87 .9 

Protein. 5.7 

Fat 0.8 

N-free extract . • 3.9 

Fiber 1.1 

Ash 0.6 

» From published analyses of the United States Department of Agriculture. 
1" Ladd: Arch. Pediatrics, 32: No. 6 (1915). 



68 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Soy bean cake. The soy bean cake is the press-cake which remains behind after the 
removal of the soy bean oil in the press mill. The orient has used soy bean cake for cattle 
feed and for fertilizer. It is of note that it contains a high percentage of nitrogen, but, 
economical though the Chinese have been, they do not seem to have attempted to convert 
it into a human food. Only recently has it been very seriously suggested that both in the 
Occident and in the orient this rich nitrogenous material should be converted into some form 
of food for human consumption. During the north China famine of 1920-1921, the soy 
bean cake was actually used in the starvation diets to bolster up a failing food supply. 

DISCUSSION 

The Chinese people make practically no use of dairy products, and the bulk of the people 
consume very meagre amounts of meat. Yet in spite of this they have lived for centuries 
on what appears to be a remarkably well-balanced diet by the use of the soy bean. It should 
be pointed out that the soy bean contains little starch, and that from the nutritive stand- 
point it is not a wheat substitute, but a substitute for meat or milk. 

A number of interesting examples are found in China of the use of bean curd as an agent 
for growth. One of the writer's Chinese colleagues, whose home is in Anking, has observed 
that dealers in birds employ bean curd as the sole food for infant birds. The birds are 
robbed away from their nests immediately after they are hatched, and are then fed bean curd 
to tide over the infantile period till able to feed themselves. Still more interesting is the case 
of the true Buddhist monk who from birth is consecrated to the priesthood, and is carried 
through the period of childhood growth on a rather heavy diet of bean curd. The apparently 
normal growth of these monks would seem to be paralleled by the e.tperiments of Osborne 
and Mendel' on the promotion of growth in rats by both the water-soluble and fat-soluble 
vitamines contained in soy bean. The country monastic diet is noted for its high content 
of soy bean products. 

In scanning the diet question in China, one is tempted to speculate as to the possible rela- 
tionship between a protein diet of bean curd and other soy bean products and the subject 
of resistance to infection. Whether there is any relationship remains to be determined. 
The Chinese coolie is a case in point, who, in spite of the scanty intake of meat and the con- 
stant e.xposure to overwhelming sources of infection, still does possess a wonderful resistance. 
The diet of the average cooUe contains a surprisingly large amount of beans and bean pro- 
ducts. Experiments with rats have shown that their resistance to snake venom is greater 
when they have been fed a protein diet. 

We are accustomed to point out that nature has solved many of her food problems by blind 
experimentation. The growing young are always fed milk, a protein food. The Far East 
is full of examples where a sort of natural instinct has led to the incorporation of large amounts 
of protein food into a diet lacking in nitrogen substance. In addition to this use of the soy 
bean, there stands out as an example the use of nuoc-mam, a protein food, in the rice diets 
of Indo-China." The fact that the Chinese, confronted with so many sources of infection, 
have come to drink only boiled water, or hot tea, and have come to eat almost all their food 
hot, is held by many to be another instance of a blind experimentation. A common saying 
in some parts of China terms "bean milk the poor man's milk, and bean curd the poor man's 
meat." This simply indicates the extent to which bean curd has been incorporated into the 
diet of the Chinese. 

The true position of bean curd and other bean products in the diet of the Far East will 
only be made clear when the protein metabolism of the oriental is better understood. Does 
it operate upon a different standard from that of the European? Again, it may be asked, 
what are the racial characteristics, if any, which are traceable to the large use of a bean diet 

" Rose: Ann. insl. Pasteur, 33 : 275 (1919). 



1922] HOW CHINA USES THE SOY BEAN AS FOOD 69 

in Cliina? It is commonly stated that a meat diet is characteristic of the most aggressive 
peoples of the world. Has the protein of the soy bean replaced meat in the orient? 

CONCLUSIONS 

The purpose of this paper is to call attention to the numerous ingen- 
ious forms in which the oriental peoples have long made use of the soy 
bean. The experience of the Chinese in a purely practical, rule-of- 
thumb way has been so much more extended than ours in Europe and 
America that it should offer us some suggestions. Many of the dishes 
made from soy bean products are well worth adoption by us. We 
are accustomed to hear it intimated that while the Occident has pro- 
gressed so tremendusly in the sciences, the orient has excelled in the 
arts of life. The observing American in China quickly grasps the truth 
of this. In the art of preparing food the Chinese and the other peoples 
of the orient have much to contribute. A number of the products 
mentioned above have appeared regularly on the writer's family table 
in China served with other foods prepared in the western fashion. 
Americans in China who live on a western dietary invariably adopt a 
nimiber of very nourishing and delectable Chinese dishes which they can 
not be persuaded to part with. 

Soy bean propagandists have been especially enthusiastic over the 
introduction of soy bean curd into America. Dr. Yamei Kin, a Chinese 
dietitian, has become particularly well-known as an exponent of bean 
curd on her visits to the United States. Biological chemists in China 
are interested in the relation of soy bean to metabolism. Efforts are 
being made to secure the data which will enable us to prepare an intelli- 
gent survey of the contributions which China has to make to the rest 
of the world. 



PERHAPS THE CHESTNUT TREE CAN BE RESTORED 

The chestnut tree is valued in the parts of the country where it grows, 
not only for its beauty as a shade tree, but for the food value of the nuts 
it produces, so that the blight, of Japanese origin, that has caused the 
loss of so many trees has been a source of great regret. After ten years 
of experimenting, the Department of Agriculture has foimd that it is 
possible to cross the Japanese chestnut with the chinquapin, a dwarf 
chestnut, and to produce a hybrid tree that is quite resistant to the 
blight and that yields nuts of good flavor and excellent quahty. 



70 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON COLLEGIATE TRAINING 
OF DIETITIANS' 

SUBMITTED BY ABBY MARLATT, CH.'URMAN 

The report of the sub-committee on the collegiate training of dietitians is 
the result of studies of catalogs of two year courses and four year courses which 
definitely advertise the training work as part of their curriculum, and it 
embodies suggestions taken from detailed answers to personal letters sent to 
dietitians at well known hospitals which have in the past received college 
graduates for periods of training of from three to six months. These hospitals 
are from the Atlantic coast to Minnesota. Data from the California field was 
taken from Dr. Agnes Fay Morgan's report made after a detailed study of the 
work of the hospitals in California. 

The chairman had assistance from Dr. Ruth Wheeler, Mrs. Bryan, Dr. 
Katharine Blunt, Dr. Amy Daniels, Professor Helen Parsons, and Professor 
Mabel Little, all of whom have either assisted in courses for the training of 
dietitians or have helped in training dietitians in college and in hospital work. 

The report for the two year course is a slight modification from the one pre- 
sented by Lenna Cooper's committee at the Institutional Economics meeting 
at the University of Wisconsin two years ago. This is included in this report, 
at the earnest solicitation of the president of the Dietetic Association and Miss 
Cooper, both of whom feel that at this time we should continue to recommend 
a minimum two year course to meet the needs of the group of smaller hospitals 
who are unable to pay the larger salaries that would necessarily be demanded 
where the training of the dietitian represents four years of college with ad- 
ditional interneship as pupil dietitian in an accredited hospital. 

Two Years. In the two year course the outline indicates the best judgment 
of people who have watched the training of the two year group and have 
had experience in taking them as pupil dietitians. The need for courses in 
physics as well as in chemistry, biology, and psychology was recognized by 
practically all of those who were consulted. 

The one criticism that was made is that the amount of time given to food 
preparation is too limited, that the individual who goes from a two year course 
to hospital training would necessarily have more to do with the buying and 
preparation of food than with the diet kitchen work, and therefore a longer 
period of time should be given to perfecting the technique in cookery. The 
fact that cookery processes are carried on in connection with the courses in 
nutrition and dietaries in diet in diseases, and that detailed study is given in the 
second year to the preparation of food in large quantities seemed to the chair- 
man of the committee to have met this demand sufficiently. Technique 

' Presented at the .Annual Meeting of the American Dietetic Association, Chicago, October, 
1921. 



1922] REPO:^T ON COLLEGIATE TRAINING OF DIETITIANS 71 

would need to be perfected during the siuiuner months either in the individual 
home or in some other institution so that the routine work would become tech- 
nically more nearly perfect, leaving the major time in the two years of training 
to the better grounding in the fundamentals of applied sciences, economics, 
and art. Following an interne period as pupil dietitian, the graduate of a two 
year course should be assigned as assistant dietitian in some hospital where the 
head dietitian has had the wider training. After successful work for one year, 
she may be sent out as the only dietitian in a smaller hospital. 

Four Years. The suggested four year course leading to the Bachelor's 
degree is definitely divided into groups. In each group the sequence of studies 
is such as should occur in a well organized course. No attempt was made 
to adjust to semester or year schedules, as it was thought wise to leave that 
to the judgment of the home economics department in the institution offering 
the course, the emphasis being placed on the fact that the general education in 
the arts and sciences should be a pre-requisite to the applied work in food, 
shelter, dietetics, and institutional management. With the student who has 
not had a wide background in general education and intensive courses in sci- 
ences such as chemistry, physics, biology, it would be futile to do collegiate work 
in applying these sciences in the study of foods, sanitation, dietetics, and 
applied economics. 

Where the students are definitely planning to do research work in connec- 
tion with physicians and other research workers in the hospital, it would be 
advisable to include such courses in clinical medicine as the previous training 
of the student would prepare her to take. Under Group H, courses are sug- 
gested in clinical laboratory diagnosis; not that the dietitian would be called 
upon to do this type of work, but that the dietitian must understand the 
vocabulary and the technique and be able to understand the findings in connec- 
tion with the laboratory diagnosis, so that the cooperative work with the 
physicians may be more intelligently developed. 

The need for courses in psychology, sociology, and education is recognized 
by the workers in hospital fields because the native ability to handle employees 
and work with patients is rare. The better knowledge of human psychology 
and principles of education should be an asset in developing the ability of the 
trained dietitian to handle her problems with tact and judgment. 

Graduate Year. It is hoped that the institutions throughout the country whb 
are offering courses for the training of dietitians may eventually be able 
to give graduate work to experienced Iiome economics teachers who are desirous 
of entering the dietitian field. 

It has been suggested that the year of graduate study could be divided into 
three periods, the first of approximately three months taken during the summer 
vacation and the other two periods to include the nine months of residence 
study. The second period beginning in the fall may include detailed study 
in hospitals or dispensaries and preliminary work in research in metabolism 



72 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

laboratories, preparatory to the second semester which may be given to a 
definite research problem selected by the student in consultation with the 
faculty of the department and the staff of the resident hospital. 

Rank. The need for better trained dietitians in our hospitals and coopera- 
tive work between the dietitian service and the superintendent of nurses and 
the superintendent of the hospital is becoming increasingly apparent. If the 
dietitian is to be given recognition as having coordinate rank in a hospital 
staff she must be sufficiently trained in the sciences and in her own special 
field to be able to know what pieces of work she may successfully develop, 
what t}q3es of work are cooperative, and what tj^es of work she should not 
attempt. 

Coftclusioft. There is a field for the nurses' work, a field for the medical 
officers, and one for the dietitian. They should be sufficiently separated so 
that there is no possibility of misunderstanding, but they should be so coor- 
dinated that the patient receives the best possible assistance in the struggle 
back to health. The least training that the dietitian today should receive is 
the work done during four years of college training, one-third of the credits 
of which should have been along home economics lines. In addition she should 
have from at least four months to possibly twelve months of work beyond her 
Bachelor's degree, this work to be taken in part as pupil dietitian. Later 
after a wider experience as assistant and head dietitian, she may return to 
college work, developing research standards in cooperation with a medical 
college with its group of hospitals. 

Institution Manager 
Suggested Minimum — Two Years 

I. English — 3 semester hours: Written and spoken English, theme writing, special 
emphasis being placed on outlines, note taking, writing of clear correct English. 
Also the writing of social, business, and professional letters. 
II. Chemistrj' — 10 semester hours: 

Inorganic chemistry — 6 semester hours: Properties, use, and preparadon of impor- 
tant metals, non-metals, and other compounds. Elementarj' discussion of chem- 
ical theory. The laboratory illustrates theoretical instructions, and lays founda- 
tion of laboratory' technic. Principles of qualitative analysis introduced. 
Organic and food chemistry — 4 semester hours: .-Vliphatic and aromatic series of 
carbon compounds with emphasis on such parts of organic chemistry as are most 
closely related to food chemistry. Chemistry of carbohydrates, fats, and pro- 
teins, including qualitative analysis of typical foods. 

III. Physics — 5 semester hours: Principles of mechanics, heat, light, electricity, and their 

application to the household. 

IV. Biology — 7 semester hours: 

Bacteriology — 4 semester hours: Nature of bacteria, related to public health, 
spread and contracrion of diseise, food manufacture and decomposition. Labo- 
ratory and lecture course. 

Human physiology and hygiene — 3 semester hours: Class, laboratory, and demon- 
strations on mammals. 



1922] lUEPORT ON COLLEGIATE TRAINING OF DIETITIANS 73 

V. Psychology — 3 semester hours: General and applied psychology with experimental 

work as a basis for better understanding of employees. 
VI. Economics — 3 semester hours: General introductory course. Lectures and readings. 
VII. Foods — i semester hours: A study of foods and food composition, general principles 
of cookery, serving of foods. Laboratory work includes preparation of various 
classes of food, not only the fundamental foods but pastries, salads, entrees, and 
fancy desserts. 
VIII. Food Marketing — 3 semester hours: Food production, transportation, storage, 
marketing and markets, cooperative buying and selling, price fixing and price regu- 
lation, trade discounts, trade names, and field practice in buying. 
DC. Nutrition and Dietaries — 4 semester hours: Chemistr>- and physiology of digestion, 
metabolism and its products; energy value of food; energy requirements of the body; 
nutritive properties and quaUtative relations of protein, fats, and carbohydrates and 
ash constituents; vitamines. Food requirements of individuals in health and through 
infancy, childhood, adolescence, adult life and old age, menus for the different periods 
of Ufe. 
X. Diet in Disease — 3 semester hours: A study of pathological conditions in various 
diseases and dietetic requirements to aid in their cure. Dietaries computed in grams 
and total calories and variations in menus planned for diabetic, nephritic, tubercular, 
gastro-intestinal, aenemic, febrile, and gouty cases. 
XI. House Architecture — 3 semester hours: Study and drawing to scale of typical floor 
plans and elevation of hospitals, cafeterias, lunch rooms, dormitories. Study of 
materials and treatment as to sanitary finishes, color schemes; kinds and installation 
of plumbing, heating, and lighting fixtures. Estimation of cost. 
XII. Institutional Housekeeping and Laundry — 3 semester hours: Details of the care and 
cleaning of floors, walls, equipment, machinery, and detailed processes of laundry 
work. Selection and cost of institutional furnishings; handling and repair of house- 
hold linen. 
Xni. Institutional Equipment — 2 semester hours: Principles involved in construction of 
institutional equipment; care of equipment, types of equipment, newest equipment 
on market; planning of institutional kitchens; writing of specifications for equipment 
orders. 
XIV. Large Quantity Cookery — 4 semester hours: Preparation of foods in large quantities; 
studies of cost, loss in weight, determination of size of proportion, cost of each 
serving, selling price of each serving; menus for lunch rooms, cafeterias, tea rooms, 
dormitories, hospitals, and other types of institutions; economic and social feature 
of above menus. 
XV. .Administration, Organization and Accounting — 3 semester hours: Types of institu- 
tions and systems of administration; labor problems; personnel; line of authority; 
labor turn-over; characteristics of employees of the different nationalities; manage- 
ment of help; duties of maids and janitors; other routine work of an institution 
household; the relation of a dietitian to an institution, her duties. Simple methods 
of accounting; factors entering into retail costs of food consumed; overhead; per 
capita costs. 
Pupil Dietetian: Following the two-year course the pupil should spend four months 
in an approved hospital or other type of institutional organization before being 
placed in institutional work. 



74 THE jouENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Dietitian 
Suggested Four Year Course Leading to B. S. Degree 

Group a — Taken as part of a liberal education (should be one-third of total) : 

English — 6 semester hours required; others elective: Composition and rhetoric, 1 year, 
6 credits. Commercial correspondence or Sophomore composition, 1 semester, 2 
credits. English literature, 1 year, 6 credits. Advanced courses comparative litera- 
ture, 1 semester, 2 credits. 

Language — 8 to 16 semester hours in the college: Latin in high school 3-4 years should 
be taken to give foundation for medical courses. Advanced courses in foreign lan- 
guage, reading knowledge should be the measure. 

History — 3 semester hours required: .\t least one year to secure knowledge of college 
methods in historic study — may be ancient, medieval, English, United States, modem, 
European. 

Art — 3 semester hours: General courses in art appreciation. 

Economics — 1 course required; others elective. 

Psychology — 3 semester hours required; others elective: General, 1 semester, 3 credits. 
Social, 1 semester, 3 credits. Experimental or educational, 1 semester, 3 credits. 

Sociology — 1 course at least on the organization of the family. 

Education — Courses suited to needs of student. 
Group b — Science as foundation for advanced study (should be at least 1/5 of total): 

Chemistry — at least 18 hours: General, 10 credits. Quantitative, 3 credits. Organic, 
aliphatic, 3 credits. Food, 4 credits. Physiological, 5 credits. 

Physics — 1 year, 6 credits: General and applied. 

Biology — 1 year, 8 credits: Bacteriology, 4 semester hours: General and applied. 
Lecture and laboratory course. Human physiology and hygiene — 4 semester hours: 
Lecture and laboratory course. 
Group c — Food Study: Applied science, 1-1 § years, 10 credits: 

1. Selection and preparation of foods including serving of meals. 1 semester, 3 credits. 

Lecture and laboratory. 

2. Food economics (applied economics), 3 semester hours: Production, transportation, 

storage and preservation, markets, tests for quality, substitution values. 

3. Experimental cookery, 1 semester, 2 credits. 
Group D — Textile Study — 1 semester, 3 credits: Textile chemistry, laundry chemistry, and 

laboratory practice. 
Group E — Housing and Sanitation — 1 year, 6 credits: 

1. Architectural plans and details, plumbing, heating, lighting, sanitation, floor and wall 

finishes of hospitals, halls, cafeterias. 1 semester, 4 credits. 

2. Decoration — 1 semester 2 credits: Study of textiles, furniture, color, design suited 

to institutional equipment. 
Group f — Dietetics — 1 year, 7 credits: 

1. Nutrition and diet — 4 semester hours: Dietary standards; diet as influenced by age, 

sex, and occupation; construction of dietaries and service of meals; detailed dietary 
study made on self. Group dietary study made at practice cottage. Study of 
metabolic processes; urine, feces, blood analysis, and respiration tests following 
dietary studies. Food requirements of young children; comparative study of milk 
and various proprietary infant foods and formula; principles underl3dng milk modifi- 
cation in infant feeding. 

2. Diet in disorders of nutrition — 3 semester hours: Lecture, reading, and laboratory 

course. A study of intermediary metabolic processes, the adaptation of diet to 
the disorders of nutrition. 

3. Organization of teaching courses — 2 credits. 



1922] REPORT ON TEACHING DIETETICS TO STUDENT NURSES 75 

Group g — Institutional Administration — 14 credits: 

1. Organization and administration of institutions: Principles of industrial organiza- 

tion applied to purchasing food, equipment, and supplies for an institution, account- 
ing and office records; storeroom management and inventories; studies of service 
problems in management of employees; institutional housekeeping cafeteria organ- 
ization and management. 

2. Large quanrity cooking: Practice in preparing food for large groups; cost studies 

in changes in weight of food due to cooking; in determining size of portion; in 
number of portions per pound and in cost of servings. Limited to food majors. 
Lecture and laboratory. 

3. Institutional dietaries and catering: Marketing and menu planning for aU kinds of 

institutions, economical use of foods, catering, community kitchens. 

4. Institutional laundry management: Purchase, care, and use of laundry equipment, 

use of soaps, starches, and bluing; organization of work in laundry; methods of 
laundering various materials; methods of checking and accounting. 

5. Tea room, restaurant, and hotel management: Study of location, amoimt of 

capital needed, necessary equipment, organization of staff and work, menus, cost 
accounting, and advertising. 

6. Institutional equipment: Principles involved in construcrion of institutional equip- 

ment; care of equipment ; types of equipment; newest equipmentonmarket;planning 
of institutional kitchens; writing of specifications for equipment orders. 
GROtrpH — Clinical Laboratory Diagnosis — 1 semester, 3 credits: Study of metabolic proc- 
esses with special references to abnormal conditions. Analysis of normal and patho- 
logical urine, gastric contents, stools, blood. 
Suggested Year Graduate Study (J2 mo.) for M. S. Degree: First period — Pupil dietitian in 
hospital or University Commons, 3 months. Second period — Clinics in hospital or 
dispensary work in research and metabolism laboratory. Third period — Research 
problem under hospital and department management. 



REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE ON TEACHING DIETETICS TO 

STUDENT NURSESi 

SUBMITTED BY KATHARINE FISHER, CHAIRMAN 

Introduction 

Dietetics has always been one of the most important subjects in the nursing 
school curriculum, but, with the recent strides in nutrition and in the dietetic 
treatment of disease, it must necessarily take a much larger place in the prep- 
aration of the student nurse. Without a thorough, up-to-date course in 
dietetics, nurses nowadays find themselves seriously handicapped in public 
health work and in other branches of nursing. 

Reports from nursing schools throughout the country and the results of state 
examinations for a number of years have shown that dietetics is one of our 

• Presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Dietetic Association, Chicago, October, 
1921. 



76 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Febmary 

weakest subjects. There are many reasons for this, among them lack of 
suiEcient time, adequate equipment, good textbooks, and trained teachers. 
But the main reason is that few of us seem to have given the subject the care- 
ful thought and study it demands. We have been content to go on with the 
same old cookery- outline and the same teaching methods with which we 
started years ago, forgetting that the whole subject has been growing rapidly 
and that the emphasis has changed greatly in the past few years, both in 
subject matter and in method. 

Dietitians as well as nurses are responsible for whatever failure there has been 
to galvanize this vital subject into life. The American Dietetic Association 
has shown its interest by appointing a sub-committee, of its Committee on 
Education, to cooperate with the Education Committee of the League of 
Nursing Education in working out a more satisfactory outline for the teaching 
of dietetics to nurses. The report which follows is only a preliminary study 
to be supplemented later by a fuller outline of tj^jical classes or lessons, now 
being worked out by the members of the Dietetic Association, and also lists 
of illustrative material and text and reference books, for the use of both 
teachers and students. 

The committee invites suggestions and criticisms from all those interested 
in the better teaching of this subject. The members of the sub-committee are: 
Lenna F. Cooper, Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Michigan; Charlotte 
Addison, Post-Graduate Hospital, New York; Isabel M. Stewart, Dept. of 
Nursing & Health, Teachers College, New York, (Chairman Education Com- 
mittee of the National League of Nursing Education) ; Katharine A. Fisher, 
Dept. of Household Administration, Teachers College, New York. 

OUTLIKE OF A COURSE DJ DIETETICS FOR STUDENT NURSES 

Preliminary Course 

Time. This course should be given during the preliminary period of training. A minimum 
of 60 hours of lecture and laboratory work is recommended; laboratory periods should 
be at least two hours in length. 

Instructor. The class should be conducted by a dietitian who is a graduate in household 
science from a recognized school. 

Preparation oj Class. It is assumed that the students are of high school grade Exemption 
from the course should be granted to those students considered by the superintendent of 
nurses and the dietitian to have had the equivalent of the work given. An e.xamination 
should determine such exemption, and all students should be required to take any work 
directly relating to cooker}' for the sick which was not included in their previous training. 

Laboratory Equipment. A laboratory is essential, with facilities for individual laboratory 
work. Not more than sixteen students can be handled satisfactorily by one teacher in 
one laboratory section. Illustrative material, such zs charts, slides, and exhibits should 
be supplied and freely used. 

Aims of Course. 

1. To give students a sound fundamental understanding of the principles and methods 
of cookery for well and sick people. 



1922] REPORT ON TEACHING DIETETICS TO STUDENT NXIRSES 77 

2. To make them familiar with the nutritive values of food and with the essentials of 

well balanced daily meals for well people and convalescents under varying condi- 
tions. 

3. To help the students to thoroughly appreciate the economic aspects of food, such as 

selection, relative costs, and control of waste. 

4. To give a training in high standards of cleanliness and sanitation in the care, prepara- 

tion, and service of food. 

5. To give practice in the planning of well balanced, attractive and suitable menus, and 

a training in the efficient preparation of these. 

6. To demonstrate and maintain dainty and artistic service of food. 
Methods oj Teaching. 

1. Some instructors may wish to separate the lectures from the laboratory periods. 

If this scheme is followed, it is thought that fifteen one-hour lecture periods should 
be planned within the minimum time recommended above. The mcst satis- 
factorj' method, however, is the combination of lecture and demonstration by the 
instructor, followed by laboratory practice, investigation, and discussion by the 
students. The students have thus a chance to directly connect, under supervision, 
the general principles with their methods in laboratory practice. 

2. Instructors should remember that their students are nurses in training and not 

students specializing in home economics. Only that material, therefore, which 
the nurse will use during her training and in her professional work later, should 
find a place in the course, and it should, of course, be presented with a view to 
constantly holding her active interest. "Fancy cookery" as such has no place in 
this course. Dainty and effective garnishes should be taught and interesting 
variations from the typical dishes considered, but dishes involving much time 
and elaborate arrangement of ingredients should be excluded. 

3. The introductory lessons should bring the students into immediate touch with the 

actual work of food preparation instead of being entirely devoted to the less inter- 
esting phases of laboratory practice, such as a study of equipment and fuels. It 
is not desirable to devote the greater part of these first lessons to the theoretical 
side of the subject. The students should think in terms of the daily food service 
to patients on aU kinds of diet, and it is considered wise to base as many of the 
lessons as possible on the preparation of an entire meal and the setting up of 
trays. This plan gives the students practice in applying their knowledge of 
food values to the planning of the day's diets, and gives the instructor an oppor- 
tunity to bring to the attention of the class concrete examples in diet and the 
nroblems to be met in planning attractive, palatable, and well balanced menus. 
Problems representing suitable meals for persons under specific conditions, such 
as meals for children of different ages, for adolescents, for adults, and for the aged, 
should be worked out by the class instead of asking them to consider isolated 
masses of facts concerning food values and food preparation. Methods of cooking 
should be studied as they are first used, and later a summary and comparison 
made of the various methods, as to their effect on the flavor and digestibility 
of food. 

4. In conducting classes the instructor should lay the emphasis on the reasons for 

following the various methods, on "why" as well as on "how" and "what." This 
will keep live questions constantly before the students, making them stronger in 
technique, more resourceful, and capable of thinking independently in this field. 
In all review work, questions given to the class should reflect this more desirable 
method of teaching, and it is of the greatest importance that the actual needs of 
the nurse in her later professional work should be given the closest attention. 



78 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

5. Standard or basic recipes should be used freely and the students should be instructed 

in varjong these as necessary. This should give them a knowledge of general 
principles and of proportions in food combinations and eliminate the memorizing 
of recipes, a practice which cannot be condemned too strongly. For example, 
using as a basis the standard recipe for cream sauce, a cheese sauce for macaroni 
may be made and the various cream soups prepared. General principles of cook- 
ing the various typical groups of food should be stressed in the laboratory work. 

6. Students should be trained in the critical judgment of the finished dishes and of the 

meals prepared and ser\'ed. There should be constant comparison of class results 
by the instructor and students and for this they may work out score cards. For 
example, the following might be used: 

Possible Score Actual Score 

Baked Custard 10 

Appearance 1 

Consistency 2 

Texture 4 

Flavor 3 

Preparation of a tray 10 

Service 3 

Immaculate service 1 

Artistic arrangement 1 

Convenience for patient 1 

Menu 7 

Suitability to patient's condition 2 

Combination of foods 2 

PalatibiUty and digestibility of food 3 

7. Class notes should not be voluminous. They may be conveniently arranged on 

cards, indexed for reference purposes, and should be carefully corrected by 
instructor. A good textbook and suitable reference books relieve students from 
much note-taking, but at present there appear to be few suitable books of this 
kind for student nurses. Some are, for the most part, a collection of recipes, 
while others pay too much attention to specific methods and specific information, 
.vitJi inadequate attention to general principles. The material presented is not 
always well adapted to the average general educational preparation of the class 
and to their vocational needs. 

8 The attention of students should be frequently drawn to the various ways in which 
this work is related to nursing education and opportunities for applying this part 
of their training as students in the hospital and later in their professional work. 
The growing tendency, in medicine and nursing, to pay more attention to the 
dietetic treatment of disease should receive fuU consideration. 

9. The social and economic aspects of the food problem should also be kept before the 
class. Many of these nurses will be working later with poorer families and will 
be e.xpected to advise them about the choice and the relative costs of standard 
foods. 
10. Tlie instructor should keep closely in touch with the other preliminary courses most 
directly related to the work in dietetics, so that she may know how to correlate 
her work with these to the very best advantage. Instructors should also keep 
in touch with the latest developments in nutritional work and familiarize the 
students with the various sources through which they may keep their knowledge 
up-to-date. 



1922] REPORT ON TEACHING DIETETICS TO STUDENT NURSES 79 

11. The principles of physical science should be woven into the course in a popular way, 

to give the reasons for certain procedures in cookery which other courses in the 
preliminary work do not cover. 

12. The content of a course in dietetics for nurses has already received much thought, 

but the methods of teaching have not been given adequate attention. Students 

are therefore not always well prepared to use this training to the best advantage. 

Content of Course. (These subjects are not arranged in the sequence in which they would be 

presented in a course of study, nor are they divided into lessons. Such an outline will 

be submitted later by the committee — following the suggestions discussed above). 

1. Review of the physiology of digestion, absorption, assimilation, and excretion. 

2. Classification of foods and food products under tj'pical food groups according to 

their place in the diet and to their economic value, as for example: 

A. Milk — important as a source of energy, protein, lime, and vitamines, unique 

as sufiicient in growth-promoting food. Study of grades of milk. 

B. Cereals and cereal foods — economical source of protein, but not weU balanced 

in salts and vitamines; typical starchy foods. 

C. Vegetables and fruits — varying greatly as sources of energy, but rich in 

vitamines. 

D. Typical protein foods and food products: 

Meat, fish, and poultry — generally popular, but expensive as sources of 
protein and fat. Poor in lime and in vitamines. 

Eggs — rich in protein, salts, and vitamines; value in the dietary depends 
much on market conditions. 

Cheese — valuable as a meat substitute in concentrated form. 

Nuts — rich in protein and fat; valuable as a meat substitute. 

3. Food values and their measurement; practice in computing food values. 

4. Composition and food value of the different foods; specific functions of: proteins, 

fats, carbohydrates, salts, vitamines, water. 

5. Factors in food requirement such as age, climate, activity, size; consideration of 

suitable diets for persons under these varying conditions. 

6. The preparation of foods: 

A. Selection, cooking, and serving of the tj-pical protein and carbohydrate foods 

and of the fats and oils: 

Fruits and vegetables — dried and fresh, greens and legumes. 

Cereals and cereal foods — including gruels, breakfast cereals, macaroni 

and rice. Comparison of ready-to-serve and home-cooked cereals as 

to cost and food value. 
Eggs, milk and milk products — including sterilization and pasteurization 

of milk. 
Fish — baked, boiled and broiled fish; shell fish. 
Meat and poultry — broiled chops and steaks, squabs and chicken; broths 

and beef juice. 
Fats and oils — their use in cookery; commercial preparations. 

B. Preparation of the typical food combinations: 

Beverages — including albumenized drinks, and milk and egg drinks. 

Thickened liquids — the use of the prepared starches, especially cornstarch 
and flour, in making cream soups, purees, sauces and desserts; basic 
recipes for these dishes with practice in varj-ing them as to thickness, 
flavor and ingredients; method of using eggs with the starches in 
thickening liquids. 

Flour mixtures — study of lightening agents; basic recipes for biscuits, 
muflttns, and plain cake, with methods for simple variations; sponge 
cake. 



80 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Salads — illustrating the serving of different foods and suitable combina- 
tions of these; salad dressings. 

Gelatine dishes — basic recipes for the plain jeUies, sponges and creams, 
with the simple variations. 

Frozen dishes — types and their variations: freezing small quantities. 

7. Food sanitation — handling and care of food, especially of milk; care of kitchen utensils 

and equipment; brief study of the sanitary aspects of commercial food distribution 
and preservation. 

8. Methods of cooking — their effect upon the digestibility and flavor of food. 

9. Use and abuse of condiments. 

10. Hospital diets — use of liquid, light and full diet, with general procedure In feeding the 
sick. 
Practical Work in the Diet Kitchen: 

1. It is coming to be generally recognized that the diet kitchen is a laboratory where 

the student nurse may apply her technical knowledge and where she may develop 
a fair degree of skill in preparing food for the sick. The student is there to be taught 
and must not be thought of simply as a means of getting the work done. 

2. The duties of the student nurses in the diet kitchen should not involve any needless 

repetition, and their services should not be used for the routine of dishwashing and 
other cleaning, or for much preparator)' work, such as paring vegetables and wash- 
ing greens. Maids should be employed for this purpose. 

3. It is desirable that the students should have some of their diet kitchen e.xperience 

during their preparatory course or soon after, so that they may apply at once the 
elementary principles and procedures outlined above. This period should be for 
at least three or four weeks, the time of each student being carefully organized so 
that she may have practice in the preparation of all typical dishes included in the 
above outline. This should prepare her to assist in the preparation and serving of 
the simpler w-ard diets. The student is not expected to spend more than four 
hours a day on this practical work. 

4. Later when she has had more opportunity to study different types of disease and to 

care for more complicated cases, she wiU take up the preparation of special diets 
and formulae for infant feedings as outlined in the more advanced course below. 

OUTIIXE OF A CoiTtSE IX DlETOTHERAPY FOE StUDENI NtTRSKS 

Time. A minimum of 20 hours is recormnended, or 30 hours if infant feeding is included. 
It is thought advisable that this course should be given as soon as possible after the 
preliminary training and, if arrangements can be made to have tlie students receive this 
instruction during the time they are taking their training in medical nursing, they wnll 
be able to use their knowledge to the best advantage. 

Instructors. The dietitian should be a graduate of a recognized school, fully qualified to meet 
the requirements of special hospital dietary work. The medical phases of the subject 
may be given by a physician who is a specialist in this field. 

Aims of Course: 

1. To apply the principles of cookery and of nutrition to the dietetic treatment of nutri- 

tional disorders. 

2. To teach the students how to fill doctors' dietary prescriptions and to make attractive 

menus and palatable meals from these. 

3. To teach the students how patients may be led to understand the purpose of their 

dietetic treatment in order that they may cooperate more fully with the physician 
and nurse. 

4. To study the charting of diets on history sheets. 



1922] REPORT ON TEACHING DIETETICS TO STUDENT NURSES 81 

Methods of Teaching. As the student nurse will have an opportunity for practice in prepara- 
tion of diets in the diet kitchen, it is thought that less than half the time devoted to this 
course should be given to laboratory practice. As each type of diet is being considered, 
trays, demonstrating suitable menus, should be prepared and used as a basis for lectures 
and for discussions by the students. 

Content of Course: 

1. Principles in the dietetic treatment of disease, with special reference to diseases of 

metabolism, and other conditions requiring special diets. 

2. A study of the various types of diets as they are used in treating various diseases, 

using each as a basis for planning attractive menus and preparing palatable meals 
for patients: starch free diet, fat low diet, protein low diet, purin free diet, salt free 
diet, diet with restricted or forced fluids, high calorie diet, diets with roughage, 
diets as free from roughage as possible, various combinations of above diets. 

3. Practice in fiUing dietary prescriptions, computing calorie values of special diets when 

necessary, and charting. 

4. Infant feeding — modified milk and doctors' formulae — technique of milk room, such 

as care of feeding-bottles, use of Babcock tester. 
Practical Work in the Wards and Diet Kitchen: 

1. When the student nurse is e.xperienced enough to be assigned to the position of chief 

diet nurse in the medical or surgical wards, it is desirable that her time should be 
divided, if possible, between the wards and diet kitchen, in order that she may 
study the patients' individual needs, prepare under supervision the diets for the 
special cases, and follow closely the effects which are produced by the treatment. 

2. In the same way, her service in the milk room should, if at all possible, be a part of 

her service in the children's wards, so that she may know the condition of the babies 
and watch from day to day the results of tlie formulae they are getting. 

3. As an instructor of nurses, the dietitian or her assistants should, through visits to the 

wards, keep closely in touch with the diet work of the student nurses there. In the 

larger hospitals where the dietitian has charge of the administration of the dietary 

work throughout the entire hospital, she should, of course, have adequate assistance 

for the supervision of the work of the diet kitchen and for the training of student 

nurses. Here also the pupil dietitians should get their training in supervising 

special diet work. 

Post-Graduate Work. Special problems of food and nutrition in public health work and in 

institutional administration should he considered as post-graduate study. The social 

service dietitian is best qualified to give instruction in the former, and the administrative 

dietitian in the latter. Nurses who wish to specialize in metabolic work should also 

plan to take post-graduate training. 



82 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON PROFESSIONAL TRAIN- 
ING OF DIETITIANS IN HOSPITALS AND 
MEDICAL SCHOOLS' 

Submitted by Ruth Wheeler, Ch.ueman 

A. Changes from present practice recommended. 

1. Longer service: one year interneship, eventually. 

2. More study paralleling practical work. 

3. More clinical experience. 

4. Greater responsibility toward the end of the year. 

B. Character of course. 

1. Practice. 

a. One to three months in each phase of work available, varying with the institu- 

tions and with the part of the field for which the student is preparing herself. 

b. A total of one year in larger institutions having varieties of training to offer. 

c. Complete responsibility for at least one chosen phase of the work for at least 

the last month of training; perhaps as vacation relief. 

d. Clinical e.^erience from being present in ward walks or bedside consultations 

of the chief dietitian or internist or both. 

2. Intensive study; %vith credit in hospitals coimected with universities, courses sug- 

gested. 
General administration of a dietary department. 

Hospital dietetics including dietotherapy, nutrition of infants and children. 
Seminar in nutrition. 

C. Suggested course for graduates in a four year college course in home economics with 

suitable general academic marginal courses; given in a hospital connected with a 
medical school. Modifications or sections of tliis course are to be tried out in hos- 
pitals of several types. 

1. Practice. 

a. General administration, 1 month; diet kitchen, 1 month; wards, 1 month; 
children's hospital, 2 months (1 month in milk room); metabolism ward, 
2 months; research laboratory, 2 months; specialization, 3 months (11th 
month as assistant, 12th month vacation relief). Specialization may be in 
any of the above phases for which the student has shown special aptitude. 

2. Intensive study: courses. Seminar, 1 hour weekly, 9 months; administration, 

5 hours weekly, 1 month; hospital dietetics, 5 hours weekly, 2 months; research, 
optional, 3 months; the nutrition of infants and children, including milk room 
methods, 3 months. 

' Presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Dietetic Association, Chicago, October, 
1921. 



EDITORIAL 

Mrs. Mary Johnson Lincoln, author of "The Boston Cook Book," 
and an authority on cookery and home economics, and writer and lec- 
turer, died in her home in Boston, following a paralytic stroke, at the 
age of seventy-seven years. Born in Attleboro, Mass., she was grad- 
uated from WTieaton Seminary in Norton, Mass., in 1864, and a year 
later was married to Da\'id A. Lincoln, since dead. In 1879, when the 
Boston Cooking School was established, she was made principal, served 
for six years, and then became a writer and lecturer on domestic science. 
From 1893 to 1903 she was cuhnary editor of the American Kitchen 
Magazine. 

The New York Herald says: "Mrs. Lincoln did a work of the highest 
value to the country and did it in the beginning, in the face of serious 
opposition and ridicule." 

An editorial in the New York Evening Post pays this tribute: "It 
is doubtful whether any other American writer has won so large or so 
devoted a public as Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln, author of 'The Boston Cook 
Book.' The direct influence she exercised through her own writings 
and lectures must be multiplied many times by the influence of her 
followers and competitors. Some time ago a well-known publisher 
was asked what books he would choose for an ideal selling list if he 
were given the whole of literature to pick from. The Bible and Mrs. 
Lincoln's book were the first two on his list." 

The editor of the Journal is anxious to obtain, from any of Mrs. 
Lincoln's former pupils, information, stories, or anecdotes which would 
throw Hght on the history of the early days of our work. The influence 
of Mrs. Lincoln in the Home Economics Movement, on the practical 
side, is comparable to that of Mrs. Richards on the scientific. All 
material sent in will be compiled for a later number of the Journal. 

Edith Baer, Colleague, Companion, Chief, Friend. With the 
passingof Edith Baer on November 3rd, home economics lost a staunch 
advocate and a tireless worker for its interests. As a colleague she 
was always ready to cooperate at any expense of tune and effort; as a 
companion, always cheerful; as a chief, striving always to promote the 

83 



84 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

best interests of her students, but genuinely considerate of those 
working with her; as a friend, loyal, helpful, encouraging and loving. 
Her work was the controlling, compelling interest of her life, and, as 
a result, former students as weU as associates wish to testify to the 
encouragement and inspiration which they have received from her. 
Miss Baer was graduated from Drexel Institute in 1904 and began 
her active career in Northampton, Mass. Later she returned to 
Drexel Institute as an instructor. After teaching at Drexel Institute 
several years she began her studies at Teachers College, Columbia 
University. After one semester's work as a student she was appointed 
on the staff and continued her studies while teaching. In the spring of 
1914 she returned to her friends at Drexel Institute as their chief, and 
there her sterling quahties of genuineness, persistent endeavor to ac- 
complish the best, kind considerateness and appreciation of the endea- 
vors of others, marked her as a leader. 

Jn 1918 she entered the stronghold of conservatism, the old College of 
William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va., to give the first course offered to 
women there and to establish a department of home economics. This 
was pioneer work indeed; but after two years, at the call of the Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania, she left a well established department to again 
lay foundations upon which she expected to see grow a department which 
would serve city, state, and country. One week before the close of 
siunmer school she was stricken, while hard at work. She expected then 
to be able to return at the opening of the fall session. Two months 
later she had gone. We in the work are left with a larger share of work 
to do because of her going, but with memories which will spur us to 
greater effort and will call forth our best. 

Saeah M. Wilson. 

Mrs. Caroline A. M. Hall, who for the last thirty years has been con- 
nected with the Drexel Institute, died very suddenly at her home 
in Philadelphia on November 15th. As a young woman Mrs. Hall 
was interested in the practical arts work which was carried on at the 
Y.W.C.A. Afterthe death of her husband she came to Drexel Institute 
and took charge of the domestic arts work, and was later made Professor 
of Domestic Arts. During the years of her work, Mrs. Hall's influence 
was demonstrated, not only through her ability as a teacher and leader 
in the technical work, but also as a potent influence for good in the 
lives of all who came in contact with her. 



1922] THE OPEN EORUM 85 

The Textile Section. At the Swampscott meeting the Textile Section 
made plans for active leadership during the year 1921-22. Agnes 
Houston Craig, Chairman of the Section, has sent out a letter to textile 
specialists, and the Journal wishes to emphasize her appeal by quoting 
from her letter as follows : 

The aim of the section is to stimulate, among home economics educators, 
an active and appreciative interest in textile education so that it may properly 
attain to the high standard of excellence now recognized in the department 
of food and nutrition. It is hoped that every home economics specialist will 
put her full energy and influence into this effort to bring about better balance 
in home economics education. We confidently believe that every person 
whose special interest is some phase of the textile field will join the section. 
A big piece of work requires cooperation and enthusiastic support of its 
professional exponents. Above all it must be financed. Our membership 
goal for 1922 is five hundred paying members. The dues are $1 .00, and quali- 
fication for membership is membership in the A. H. E. A. and interest in the 
textile field. It will facilitate matters if you will send in your application and 
fee and at the same time constitute yourself a committee of one to gain other 
members. Thus the cost of a membership campaign may be minimized. 
Send the fees directly to the Section Treasurer, Miss Ethelwyn Dodson, 
Extension Department, University of California, Berkeley, California. 

The chairman also requests that textile specialists contribute articles on 
successful or interesting work, giving constructive ideas, scientific facts, or new 
methods. These should be shared with the profession and are useful to con- 
siuners. This is imperative if we are to have our work properly represented 
in the Journal or Home Economics. It is a necessary contribution to the 
development of our work. Each person should take the initiative, for time is 
valuable. Send the articles to the Associate Editor in Textiles, Miss Ruth 
O'Brien, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. 

THE OPEN FORUM 

Teacher-Rating as a Means of Improving Home Economics Teachers 
in Service. Home economics teachers as well as teachers of other subjects 
feel that one of the most acute educational needs of today is the training of 
teachers in service. The use of teacher-rating scales is suggested as a method 
of remedying this need. These scales will give the highest service when they 
are used cooperatively by teacher and supervisor. 

Self-improvement rests directly upon self-criticism. The scale is an aid 
to the teacher because it provides one analysis of her teaching. It will reveal 
her strong points as well as her weak points. It usually leads to rapid growth 
on the part of the teacher because it directs her attention to problems in her 



86 



THE JOUENAL OF HOAIE ECONOMICS 



[February 



teaching. It brings about more eSective cooperation between supervisor 
and teacher. The teacher should know in advance by what means and upon 
what grounds she is to be judged. The supervisor should make clear that the 
rating-card gives her a basis for helpful suggestion and for other means of 
helping her teachers to improve. 

The following plan is submitted as one which should lead to improvement 
in home economics teaching. The supervisor should submit the tentative 
rating cards she has prepared for rating her teachers and for self-rating by 
themselves. The "Supervisor's Rating-card for Home Economics Teachers" 
and the "Rating-card for Home Economics Teachers" which follow are sug- 
gestive of the type of rating cards that may be used by supervisors and teachers 
of home economics. 



Supervisor's Rating Card for Home Economics Teachers 

Name Date 

School 



/. Technique and results oj instruction: 

1 . Does teacher develop the initiative of her pupils? 

2. Does teacher arouse questioning attitude in her 

pupils? 

3. Does teacher provide for the developing of appre- 

ciations in her pupils? 

4. Is teacher developing responsiveness in her pupils? 

5. Is teacher developing self-direction in her pupOs? 

6. Is teacher developing self-appraisal in her pupils? 

7. Is teacher developing self-control in her pupils? 

8. Is teacher developing co-operation among her 

pupUs? 

9. Do the children turn out products of good quality? 

10. Do the pupils attend naturally and spontaneously 

to the work of the lesson? 

1 1 . Does teacher develop skills in work requiring skill? 

12. Is teacher developing neatness and orderliness in 

her pupils? 

13. Does teacher ask thought-provoking questions? 

14. Are materials of the lessons adapted to the needs 

of the children? 

15. Does teacher use effective illustrative material? 

16. Does teacher correlate the work in home economics 

with that of the other school subjects? 

17. Does teacher finish projects which she begins? 

18. Does teacher experiment with new methods which 

have been suggested to her? 

19. Does teacher co-operate with the investigational 

work being done in the school? 



1922] 



THE OPEN' FORUM 



87 



//. Classroom management: 

1. Does teacher get her requisitions, records and 

reports in on time? 

2. Does teacher plan for the systematic passing of 

supplies, tools, equipment, etc.? 

3. Does teacher pay attention to the details of heat, 

light and ventilation? 

4. Is material and equipment of room effectively 

arranged? 

5. Is teacher a ■nnse manager, that is, does she divide 

the time for the various phases and activities 
of the lesson in an economical and efficient 

manner? 

III. Educational, social and personal qualifications: 

1. Does teacher like her work? 

2. What is the healtli and vigor of the teacher?. 

3. What is teacher's attitude toward life in general? 

4. Is teacher tactful? 

5. Does teacher attract people to her? 

6. Does teacher meet people easily? 

7. Is teacher neat, attractive and trim in appearance? 

8. Do pupils come to the teacher voluntarily for 

advice or help? 

9. Does teacher go out of her way to advise or help 

students? 

10. Is teacher loyal to her superior officers and fellow 

teachers? 

11. Does teacher contribute to faculty meetings? 

12. Does teacher co-operate with the other teachers 

in school activities? 

13. Is teacher acquainted with the home conditions 

of her pupils? 

14. Does teacher take part in community activities? 

15. Does teacher attend educational meetings?. 

16. Is teacher a member of the American Home 

Economics Association? 

17. Does teacher add to her professional library each 

year? 

18. Does teacher read professional literature? 

19. Does teacher subscribe for the Journal of Home 

Economics? 

20. Has teacher contributed to home economics lit- 

erature? 



Total score . 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Score: 

5 — Excellent. Question is answered by "yes." 

4 — Good. Answer is more nearly "yes" than "no." 

3- — Fair. Answer is about evenly divided between "yes" and "i 

2 — Poor. Answer is more nearly "no" than "yes." 

1 — Unsatisfactory. Answer is "no." 

— No record. 

Check in the column which describes the answer to the question. 



Self-Rating Card for Home Economics Teachers 

Name Date 

School 



I. Technique and results oj inslrurtion: 

1. Are you developing the initiative of your pupils? 

2. Do your pupils ask relevant questions? 

3. Do you provide for the developing of apprecia- 

tions in your class work? 

4. Are your students responsive? 

5. Do your pupils do their laboratory work without 

assistance? 

6. Are your pupils able to recognize good or poor 

results and form conclusions? 

7. Are your pupils developing self-control as shown 

by their attention to their own business?. .. . 

8. Are your pupils developing co-operation as shown 

by good team work as a group? 

9. Do your pupils turn out products of good quality? 

10. Do your pupils attend naturally and spontane- 

ously to the work of the lesson? 

11. Do you provide time for practice or for developing 

skills? 

12. Do your pupils leave the laboratory clean and in 

order? 

13. Are your questions thought-provoking? 

14. Do you select the materials for your lessons in 

relation to the children's needs? 

15. Do you use worth-while illustrative material? . . 

16. Do you correlate your work with that of the other 

school subjects? 

17. Do you carry out or complete projects which you 

start? 

18. Do you experiment with new methods in teaching 

which others have suggested? 

19. Do you co-operate heartily with any investiga- 

tional work being done in your school? 



1922] THE OPEN FORUM 



//. Classroom management: 

1. Are your requisitions, records and reports in on 

time? 

2. Is the passing of supplies, tools, equipment, etc 

done systematically? 

3. Do you pay attention to the details of heat, Ught 

and ventilation? 

4. Have you arranged effectively tlie material and 

the equipment in the room? 

5. Do you divide the time for the various phases and 

activities of your lessons wisely? 

III. Educational, social and personal questions: 

1. Do you like your work? 

2. Are you in good health? 

3. Do you have the proper attitude toward life in 

general as evidenced by your disposition, your 
sense of humor and your ability to be cheerful 
and happy? 

4. Are you tactful in dealing with pupils, colleagues 

and patrons? 

5. Are you interested primarily in what other people 

are doing? 

6. Do you meet people easily? 

7. Do you recognize the importance of being "well- 

groomed"? 

8. Do your pupils come to you voluntarily for advice 

or help? 

9. Do you go out of your way to advise or help stu- 

dents? 

10. Are you loyal to the school administration? 

11. Do you contribute to faculty meetings? 

12. Do you co-operate with other teachers in school 

activities (committee work, Parent-Teacher 
Associations, etc.)? 

13. Are you acquainted with the home conditions of 

your pupils? 

14. Do you take part in community activities?. .. . 

15. Do you attend educational meetings? 

16. Are you a member of the American Home Econom- 

ics Association? 

17. Do you add to your professional library each year? 

18. Do you read professional literature? 

19. Do you subscribe for the Journal of Home 

ECONOMXS? 

20. Do you contribute to home economics literature? 



Total score . 



90 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Score: 

5 — Excellent. Question can be answered by "yes." 

4 — Good. Answer is more nearly "yes" than "no." 

3 — Fair. Answer is about evenly divided between "yes" and "no." 

2 — Poor. Answer is more nearly "no" than "yes." 

1 — Unsatisfactory. Answer is "no." 

Check in the column which describes your answer. 

In submitting the rating-cards to her teachers the supervisor should explain 
them as fully as possible and have the explanation followed by a free discussion 
of the card. The supervisor should try to secure a mutual understanding of 
the purpose of the rating and the meaning of each question comprising the 
rating-card. 

The teacher should be given a copy of the "Rating-card for Home Economics 
Teachers" and be asked to rate herself at the end of the first six weeks of 
teaching. At the same time the supervisor should rate the teacher, using the 
"Supervisor's Rating-card for Home Economics Teachers." .\fter these 
ratings have been made by both supervisor and teacher they should come 
together for a personal conference and compare the ratings. The supervisor 
and teacher should go over the rating-card question by question, giving and 
accepting suggestions from each other. Wherever possible the supervisor 
should allow the requests for help or desire for suggestions to originate in the 
teacher but if the teacher fails to see her need, then the supervisor should not 
hesitate to give the suggestion needed. Certain definite phases of the work 
should be chosen for improvement during the next six weeks of teaching. 

At the end of the twelfth week of teaching, both teacher and supervisor 
should again make ratings, and a second conference be held. At this time 
they should also compare the ratings made at the end of the sixth week of 
teaching with those made at the end of the twelfth week and note the growth 
of the teacher in this period. If these ratings are made at the end of each 
six weeks of teaching both the teacher and the supervisor will have secured 
"objective evidence" for judging the improvement of instruction in home 
economics. The teacher will feel that her supervisor is genuinely interested 
in her and her teaching and that the supervisor's judgment of her and her 
work is not one of personal judgment only. 

At the beginning of the second semester a committee of teachers might be 
appointed to revise the present rating-card or to construct a new one to be 
adopted by teachers and supervisor. 

Adah H. Hess, 
Fellow in Home Economics 
University of Chicago. 

Note: A bibliography for the study of teacher-rating is on file in the Journal Office and 
will be loaned to anyone sending 10 cents in stamps. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Revaluations. (A new edition of a paper 
read at a Lake Placid Conference.) By 
Caroline L. Hunt. Boston: WTiitcomb 
and Barrows, 1921. Price, 25 cents. 
This is an ideal little booklet to give to a 
woman who is perplexed by the necessity of 
fitting new desires with old duties. Some 
thing must be sacrificed and to the puzzled 
housewife it is often a question of which 
demand to fill and which to ignore. 
Although it is twenty years since I heard the 
matter in this booklet first presented, it has 
always been remembered for its fresh out- 
look which delighted me anew when I 
re-read it today 

Miss Hunt lays down the principle by 
which one may test the values of the old and 
the new. For her statement of the aim of 
life she chooses the quotation from Edward 
Carpenter, "To create round oneself an 
external world which answers to the world 
within is indeed a great happiness and ful- 
ness of life." 

She succinctly indicates that "freedom for 
expression pre-supposes health, efficiency, 
and opportunity." She proceeds to expose 
the declining value of customs which keep us 
from attaining freedom in these tliree direc- 
tions, and, finally, she gives us a standard of 
judgment. "Of those material things which 
complicate our lives we may say: annual 
income of energy following upon their pos- 
session exceeding annual outgo in its com- 
plication of life; result, freedom. Annual 
income less than annual expenditure; result 
slavery. 'The blossom is blighted, the leaf 
is withered, the God of Day goes down upon 
the dreary scene and in short we are for- 
ever floored,' and there upon the ground we 
sit, slaves to our possessions." 

The conclusion of the whole matter is that 
we should rid ourselves of "that distraction 
of mind and confusion of values which now 



prevent our appreciation of the really 
beautiful." To all who desire to do this 
Miss Hunt's Revalualions will prove sug- 
gestive and stimulating. 

Alice A. Chown. 

A Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics. By 
M.-iRY SwARTZ Rose. New York: The 
Macmillan Company, rev. ed., 1921, pp. 
156. S2.10. 

This is the new name under which appears 
the revised edition of the former Laboratory 
Manual of Dietetics. There is undoubtedly 
no book which has been so extensively used 
in the school laboratory and in the diet 
kitchen as has this one, and the new edition 
with its additions and revisions will be 
found to be even more usable. 

One notable addition is the discussion of 
the relation of vitamines to the continued 
well-being of children and adults. Infor- 
mation to date on the distribution in com- 
mon food materials of each of the three 
vitamines is very conveniently summarized 
in a table to indicate the relative richness of 
foods in these substances. An objection 
which might be made to including such a 
table in a book which probably will not be 
revised again for ten years is that the mass 
of vitamine information is still too shifting. 
With so much attention directed at present 
toward child nutrition, it is gratifying to 
note a more extensive treatment of this 
subject, including data for estimating 
children's food requirements and also charts 
of height and weight relationship and 
standards for growth. 

More recent knowledge of adults' energy 
requirement and data for estunating it is 
included. Especially to be noted is the 
newer data on energy requirement of women 
at various household tasks. The modifica- 
tions in the dietary standards for calcium, 

91 



92 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



iron, and phosphorus made by recent experi- 
mental work are given. It is fortunate 
that there are included in the book the tables 
giving the mineral content of food materials 
which have been so usable in Sherman's 
second edition of Chemistry of Food and 
Nutrition. 

Several additions aimed to assist in the 
mechanical processes of calculation of nutri- 
tive value are: Dr. A. R. Rose's "short- 
cut" method for dietary calculations of large 
quantities of foods, some metric and English 
equivalents, the legal standard weights for 
the bushel, and the corresponding weight 
in ounces of the cupful of common food 
materials. 

As before, the tables of composition of 
foods occupy a large space in the handbook. 
The constant user of these tables finds with 
regret that they have not been reset, listing 
all foods alphabetically in one table. The 
division into two tables in the first edition 
was an annoyance and this fault is added to 
in the second by including still a third table 
of the same nature. This third table of 
sixty or more foods fills in many of the 
missing items of the original ones. One is 
glad to find included also the energy con- 
tent of some confectioners' goods originally 
reported by Benedict and Benedict. 

With the same understanding of laboratory 
needs which characterized the first edition 
and made it so indispensable, the author 
hcis made the revisions and addition which 
will keep it the handbook of dietetic informa- 
tion par excellence. 

Sybil Woodrctff, 
University of Kansas. 

The Sclwol Lunch: Its Organization and 
Management in Philadelphia. By Emma 
Smedley. Published by the author, 
6 East Front Street, Media, Pa., 1920, 
pp. 164. $3.00. 

This book gives in detail the equipment 
and management of the high and elementary 
school lunch room in Philadelphia. Since 
Philadelphia has developed a school feeding 
system founded on absolutely sound busi- 
nesslike principles, organized with the right 
relationship between the Board of Education 
and the School Lunch System, this book 



should help cities and towns to avoid the 
mistakes that are ordinarily made in intro- 
ducing the serving of hot lunches in public 
schools. While doubtless the complete 
plan of organization will be adopted by few 
schools, at least in the beginning, and may not 
in all cases be feasible, the book presents 
an ideal plan to work toward, and there are 
many practical suggestions as to equipping, 
purchasing supplies, planning menus, serv- 
ing, and accounting, that will be useful to 
all who are directly interested in providing 
lunches for children in fairly large schools. 

The question of the discussion of feeding 
of the elementary children is briefer than the 
importance of feeding children of this age 
might indicate as being desirable in view of 
the number of underweight children that all 
health surveys are discovering. The school 
lunch is served at the morning and after- 
noon recess with a noon lunch served to 
small numbers of children whose parents 
work or who cannot go home for some other 
reason. With the limited menus suggested, 
the wisdom of serving a two cent portion of 
the hot substantial dish at noon might be 
questioned. 

Ada Z. Fish has contributed a chapter 
called "The School Lunch and Classes in 
Cookery" showing the possibiUty of coopera- 
tion between the Home Economics Depart- 
ment and the School Lunch Organization in 
a way that will help the lunch room, and give 
the home economics students experience 
with cooking in family quantities without 
having the preparation of such food develop 
into a monotonous routine and interfere 
with the educational purpose of the home 
economics course. 

Essie M. Heyle, 
University oj Missouri. 

Clothing: Choice, Care, Cost. By Maey 

ScHENCK WoOLMAN. Philadelphia : J. B. 

Lippincott Company, 1920, pp. 289. $2.00. 

During the past few years a number of 

excellent books on the subject of textiles 

and the cost of living have hem published. 

These books have given little help, however, 

on the choice of clothing. It has needed a 

te.xtile expert and clothing specialist to gather 

the necessary material and to make the right 



1922] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



93 



emphasis on this important subject. Mrs. 
Woolnian has accomplished the task in her 
book, Clothing: Choke, Care, Cost. 

The book is divided into two parts with 
four chapters in the first, devoted to clothing 
of wool and worsted, cotton, silk, and linen. 
In each chapter enough detail is given to 
show the relation of the cost, appearance, 
and durability to the manufacturing 
processes. The aim throughout is to give 
help and encouragement to the "new con- 
sumer" whom Mrs. Woolman has presented 
in the opening section of the book. 

The second section is an application of 
the first with special emphasis on the 
choice and care of clothing. The names of 
the chapters tell their own story: Clothing 
and Health, Intelligent Shopping, Service- 
able Clothing, The Clothing Budget and the 
Wardrobe, Repair and Renovation, Dyeing, 
Laundry and Spot Removal, Planning for 
Clothing Progress. 

Ella J. Spencer, 
Simmons College. 

The Present Status of Vitamines. By 
Katharine Blctnt and Cm Che Wang. 
The demand for the reprint of the arlicle 
that appeared in the Journal, March, 
1921, was so great that a second printing 
has been made, and the pamphlet may 
now be obtained from the Joltrnal 
Office at 15 cents a copy; orders of IS 
or more, 10 per cent discount. 



Teaching Social Science in High Schools and 
Industrial Classes. By Ruth Mary 
Weeks, Joecn R. Commons, and Frank 
M. Leavitt. Published by the Voca- 
tional Education Association of the Mid- 
dle West. Copies may be obtained by 
addressing L. W. Whalstrom, 1711 Estes 
Ave., Chicago, 111. Price 20 cents. 
The authors of this monograph are now 
presenting this revised report in printed 
form for the use of those interested in 
teaching social science in schools below 
college grade. Special emphasis is placed 
on the continuation school, and three 
methods of presenting the course are sug- 
gested as possibilities: "a special class in 
social science; use of such subjects as 
English or mathematics for incidental in- 
struction as to social problems; or general 
assembly hall programs designed to develop 
social ideals." The last is not recommended, 
although it has met with success in some 
schools. 

A detailed outline of a course is given 
but it is intended that the teacher will 
select from it such parts as are adapted to 
the students' experience. A sample lesson 
is illustrated, and the relation of the course 
to other subjects and to the whole course of 
study is discussed. An extensive bibliog- 
raphy, arranged according to the lesson 
topics, completes the report. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture: 
Baking in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 1135. 
Floors and Floor Coverings. Farmers' Bulletin 1219. 
Heal Production of Honeybees in Winter. Bulletin No. 988. 
Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. Farmers' Bulletin 1211. 
Bmv to Select Foods. I. Wliat the body needs. By Caroline L. Hunt and Helen W. Atwater. 

Farmers' Bulletin 808, revised, 1921. 
Linters. Circular 175, 1921. 

Making American Cheese on the Farm. Farmers' Bulletin 1191. 
Milk and Its Uses in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 1207. 

Operating a Home Heating Plant. By A. M. Daniels. Farmers' Bulletin 1194. 
Organization and Residts of Boys' and Girls' Club Work. Circular 152. 
The Organization of Rural Community Buildings. Farmers' Bulletin 1192. 
Plans of Rural Community Buildings. Farmers' Bulletin 1 173. 
Pork on the Farm. Farmers' Bulletin 1186. 
The Well Planned Kitchen. Circular 189. 



94 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February- 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 
Part-Time Education of Various Types. Bulletin 1921, No. S. 

Suggestions for Health Teaching in the Elementary Schools. Health Education No. 10. 
Your Opportunity in the Schools. Health Education No. 9. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Administration of the First Federal Child-Labor Law. Bureau Publication No. 78. 
The Em ployment-Certificate System. Bureau Publication No. 56 (Revised). 
Save the Youngest. Children's Year FoUovv-up Series No. 2., Bureau Publication No. 61 
(Revised). 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Women's Bureau: 
Health Problems of Women in Industry. Bulletin of the Women's Bureau No. 18. 

Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education: 
Child Care and Child Welfare. Bulletin No. 65, Home Economics Series No. 5. 
The Home Project: Its Use in Homemaking Education. Bulletin 71, Home Economics Series 

No. 6. 
Plant and Equipment for Vocational Classes in Home Economics. October 10, 1921. 

Issued by Iowa State College of Agriculture: 
Baby's Clothes. Home Economics Bulletin No. 29. 

Buying and Testing Textiles for Bovie Use. Home Economics Circular No. 28. 
First Lessons in the Care of Milk. Home Economics Circular No. 26. 
Food for the Family. Home Economics BuUetin No. 10. 
Planning the Costume. Home Economics Circular No. 25. 
Use and Alteration of Commercial Patterns. Home Economics Circular No. 27. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
Apple Candy — a Commercial Use for Cull Apples. Utah Sta. Bulletin 179. 
The Art of Table Setting. By Claudia Quigley Murphy, 41 Union Square West, New York. 
Can Preventable Waste of Natural Gas in Home be Prohibited? By Samuel S. Wyer, Hartman 

Bldg., Columbus, Ohio. 
Control of Garden and Household Insects. North Dakota Agricultural College. 
Corrective Diets. Bulletin of Woman's Community Council, Mioneapolis. 
A Dietary Study of Some Kansas Institutions. University of Kansas, Lawrence. 
Economy in Feeding the Family. Why we Must Have Vegetables. Conn. State Sta. Bulletin 

of Information 11. 
Handbook of Social Resources of the United States. .American Red Cross, Washington, D. C. 
Tellies, Jams and Marmalades. Connecticut Agricultural College, Storrs, Bulletin No. 39. 
Observations on Deficiency Diseases in Labrador. By Vivia Appleton. Reprint from Amer. 

Jour. Pub. Health, July, 1921. 
Opportunities for Girls Graduating from Home Economics Courses. University of Wyoming 

Bulletin, No. IB, Laramie, Wyoming. 
Outline for the Teaching of Nutrition in Elementary Grades. Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit. 
Sea Island Cotton in St. Croix. Virgin Islands Sta. Bulletin 1. 
Utilization of Calcium Compoutids in Animal Nutrition. Ohio Sta. Bulletin 347. 
Vitamins and the Daily Diet. University of Arkansas, FayettevUle, Bulletin No. 176. 



1922] BIBLIOGRAPHY 95 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Nutrilion 
Blunt, K., Nelson, A., and Curry, H.: The Basal Metabolism of Underweight Children. 

/. Biol. Chem., 1921, 49: 247-262. 
Bodansky, M.: The Zinc and Copper Content of the Human Brain. /. Biol. Chem., 

1921, 48: 361-364. 
Bosworth, A. W.: Studies in Infant Feeding, XIV. Chemical Studies of Certain Dry 

Milk Products Used in Infant Feeding. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1921, 22: 455-458. 
Bowling Green Assoc. (45 West St., N. Y.). Report on Six Months Experimental Restaurant 

for Undernourished Children. 
Camp, W. R.: Proposed Reforms in the System of Food Distribution. /. Pol. Econ., 1921, 

29: 746-756. 
Carter, W. E. : The Pirquet System of Nutrition and Its Applicability to American Condi- 
tions. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921, 77: 1541-1546. 
Dutcher, R. A.: Factors Influencing the Vitamine Content of Foods. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 

1921, 13: 1102-1104. 
Drummond, J. C, and Coward, K. H.: Nutrition and Growth on Diets Devoid of True Fats. 

Lancet, 1921, 2: 698, 699. 
Einhom, M.: Fractional Examination of the Duodenal Contents in Peptic Ulcer. J. Am. 

Med. Assoc, 1921, 77: 1471-1474. 
Emerson, W. R. P.: Overweight in Children. Bost. Med. Surg. J., 1921, 185: 475, 476. 
Emmett, A. D.: Standardized Methods for the Study of Vitamines. J . Ind. Eng. Chem., 

1921, 13: 1104^1106. 
Fitz, R. and Bock, A. V. : Studies on Blood Sugar, The Total Amount of Circulating Sugar 

in the Blood in Diabetes Mellitus and Other Conditions. /. Biol. Cliem., 1921, 48: 

313-321. 
Friedenwald, J. and Siadler, J.: Fractional Analysis of the Duodenal Contents of Normal 

Individuals. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921, 77: 1469-1471. 
Funk, C: The .'Vntiberiberi Vitamine. J. Ind. Eng. Chem., X921, 13: 1110-1111. 
Funk, E., and Dubin, H. E.: Vitamine Content of Certain Yeasts and Bacteria. /. Biol. 

Chem., 1921, 4&: 437-443. 
Grindrod, G.: Sanitary Control in Manufacture of Foods and Its Economic Importance. 

Am. J. Pub. Beallh, 1921, 11: 920, 921. 
Hess, A. F.: The Antiscorbutic Vitamine. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1921, 13: 1115-1116. 
La ^ler, V. K.: Vitamines from the Standpoint of Physical Chemistry. /. Ind. Eng. 

Chem., 1921, 13: 1108-1110. 
Loeb, L. Effect of Undernourishment on Mammalian Ovary and the Sexual Cycle. 

J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1921, 77: 1646-1648. 
Korenchevsky, V.: Experimental Rickets in Rats. Brit. Med. J., 1921, 2: 547-549. 
Lusk, G.: The Physiological Effect of Undernutrition. Physiol. Rev., 1921, 1: 523-552. 
McCoUum, E. V., Simmonds, N., Shipley, P. G. and Park, E. A.: Studies on E.xperimental 

Rickets. VI. Effects on Growing Rats of Diets Deficient in Calcium. Am. J. Hyg., 

1921, 1:492. 
Manning, ]. B., Moon, H. L., and Shumacker, H. C: Nutrition Clinics. Arch. Ped., 1921, 

38 : 639-645. 
Miller, H. M.: Sanitation of Fruit and Vegetable Canneries. Am. J. Pub. Health, 1921, 

11: 922. 
Musser, J. H.: The Influence of Inorganic Iron on the Regeneration of Blood After Hemor- 
rhagic Anemia. Arch. Int. Med., 1921, 28: 638-648. 
Power, F. B. and Chestnut, V. K.: The Odorous Constituents of Peaches. /. Am. Chem. 
Soc, 1921, 43: 1725-1739. 



96 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Rose, W. C: The Influence of Food Ingestion Upon Endogenous Purine Metabolism. 
/. Biol. Chem., 1921, 48: 563-573, 575-590. 

Seidell, A. : Experiments on the Isolation of the Antineuritic Vitamine. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 
1921, 13: 1111-1115. 

Sherman, H. C: The Vitamines. Physiol. Rev., \<)2\, I: h^S-6M. 

Shipley, P. G., Park, E. A., McCollum, E. V., and Simmonds, N.: Studies on Experimental 
Rickets, VII. Relative Effectiveness of Cod Liver OU as Contrasted with Butter Fat 
for Protecting the Body Against InsufEcient Calcium in the Presence of Normal Phos- 
phorus Supply. Am. J. Hyg., 1921, 1: 512. 

Wheelon, H.: Relation of Gastric Content to the Secretory and Motor Functions of the 
Stomach. Arch. Inl. Med., 1921, 28 : 613-631. 

Williams, R. R.: Vitamines from the Standpoint of Structural Chemistry. /. Ind. Eng. 
Chem., 1921, 13: 1107-1108. 

Zilva, S. S., and Drummond, J. C: Vitamin Content of Oils. Lancet, 1921, 2:753. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Blanchard, F. S.: International Cotton Research. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2687-2689. 

Camp, W.: American Valuations. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2667, 2671. 

Cone, B. M.: Advantages of Dye Restriction. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2638. 

Cox, J. W.: Uncommon Uses of Textile Products. Textile World, 1921, 60: 3011, 3013. 

Darby, \V. D.: Cotton the Universal Fibre. Chap. I-VII. Dry Goods Econ., 1921, No. 

4031: 185, 189; No. 4032: 35, 47; No. 4033: 45, 49; No. 4034: 87,89; No. 4035: 69, 

71; No. 4036: 65, 67; No. 4038: 27, 29. 
Ditchett, S. H.: American Dye Industry's Big Investment of Capital, Skill and Brains. 

Dry Goods Econ., 1921, No. 4030: 16, 83. 
— ■ — American Dyes Deserve the Support of American Retail Stores. Dry Goods Econ., 

1921, No. 4032: 17, 18. 
Not American Dyes but Other Causes Responsible if Color Fades. Dry Goods Econ., 

1921, No. 4033 : 15, 93, 94. 
Support the American Dye Industry and Aid Its Development. Dry Goods Econ., 

1921, No. 4034: 25, 95, 96. 
Each Bolt of Cotton Goods Represents Vast Capital Investment. Dry Goods Econ., 

1921, No. 4037: 71, 74, 75, 81, 87, 97, 287. 
Grable, K. L.: How Knowledge of Proper Combinations of Color Helps in Selling Mer- 
chandise. Dry Goods Econ., 1921, No. 4038: 36, 37, 39, 63. 
Heubner, J.: Testing the Strains of Fabrics. Textiles, 1921, 19: 20, 21. 
McDermott, C. K.: From Sheep's Back to Retail Counter, a Long Trip for Fleece. Dry 

Goods Econ., 1921, No. 4037: 119, 121, 123, 460. 
McGowan, F. R.: Standardization in Textiles. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2673, 2675. 
Pickard, E. T.: Industry in Government. Textile World, 1921, 60: 2671, 2673. 
Analysis of Weighted Silk. Possclt's Tex. J., 1921, 29: 64. 
Colloid Chemistry in Relation to Dyeing. Possell's Tex. J., 1921, 29: XXI, 58. 
Fabric Analysis. Posselt's Tex. J., 1921, 29: 52. 

History and Progress of the Artificial Silk Industry. Possell's Tex. J., 1921, 29: 28, 29. 
Waterproofing Fabrics. Posselt's Tex. J., 1921, 29: 63, 64. 

Miscellaneous 

Child Welfare. Annals of the Amer. Acad. Pol. and Soc. Sci. Nov., 1921. 

Babson, Roger W.: When to Purchase Institutional Supplies. Better Times, November, 
1921. An article of particular interest to all persons concerned with large quantity 
buying. It contains a summary of the specific advice of hundreds of business investi- 
gators and statisticians. 

Ruediger, W. C: Projects and the Proiect Method. School and Society. 1921, H: 240-243. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The Summer Meeting in Corvallis, Oregon. There are many attractive routes by 
which the home economics women of the country can reach the Pacific Coast and Corvallis, 
Oregon, for the Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, August 1-5. 

In deciding upon the route, it is necessary first to decide through which "gateway" they 
desire to go — Chicago, St Louis, or New Orleans. From these points the summer e.xcursion 
rates are granted. It is ne.\t necessary to choose the route; each route has advantages and 
disadvantages. Of the latter, no agent will advise the excursionist. 

After the coast is reached, at Vancouver, Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, or Los Angeles, 
there is little choice of routes. The Southern Pacific is the only North and South coast line. 
While a boat may be taken from San Francisco to Portland, it is a pity to deny one's self an 
opportunity to see Shasta Mountain as it is seen if the right train is chosen. 

It is suggested that those anticipating the trip supply themselves with a good pocket map 
of the United States {not a railroad map) and tlien consider the following suggestions. 



A. When time is an element to be considered: 

(a) Chicago gateway: 

(1) Via Chicago, Northwestern and Union Pacific. Leave Chicago 9:30 p.m.; arrive 
Portland 7:30 p.m., 70 hours later, with an afternoon spent coming do\vnthe Columbia River. 
Or, leave Chicago 10:30 a.m.; arrive Portland 8: 30 a.m., 70 hours later. In the first case the 
tourist should remain in Portland over night. In all cases the plans should be such that the 
invitation of the Portland citizens for the Columbia Highway drive may be accepted. 

(2) The other northern routes are about 12 hours longer except the one going down the 
north bank of the Columbia. This route loses to the tourist the beauties of Mount Rainier 
and the Puget Sound country. 

(b) St. Louis gateway: The Burlington Route. Leave St. Louis 9:03 a.m., e.g. Monday; 
arrive Portland 8: 10 a.m., Friday, if routed on S. P. and S. or in evening of same day if routed 
via Seattle. This latter routing can always be secured, and entails only the extra cost of 
Pullman accommodations from Seattle to Portland. 

B. Naturally, northern routes are cooler, and, if time allows, some attractions should be 
seen en route. The following are possibilities: 

Yellowstone National Park Route. Nortliern Pacific and C. B. and Q. Leave Chicago 
10: 10 a.m., e.g. Sunday; arrive Gardiner (Yellowstone) 10; 15a.m., Tuesday; allow 5 days in 
Yellowstone. Leave Gardiner 7:30p.m., Sunday; arrive Tacoma 8: 10 a.m., Tuesday; 3 day 
trip to Mt. Rainier and Paradise Valley. Leave Tacoma — Southern Pacific — 11:15 p.m. 
Friday; arrive Portland 6:45 a.m., Saturday. Take Columbia Highway drive as guest of 
Portland's Business and Civic Clubs. Go to Corvallis Sunday. 

There are 3 different routes by which Corvallis may be reached from Portland: 1. Steam 
car from same station at which tourist arrived by above schedule. Good trains at 9:00 
a.m. and 4 p.m. that connect at Albany with local. Corvallis is 12 miles from Albany which 
is on the main line of the Southern Pacific. 2. Soiitkern Pacific Electric — same station, 
7:35 a.m., 1 p.m., 4:05 p.m. 3. Oregon Electric — Great Northern Station, 8:30 a.m., 10:45 
a.m., 4: 45 p.m. 

Glacier National Park Route. Great Northern and C. B. and Q. Leave Chicago 10: 10 p.m., 
e.g. Sunday; arrive Glacier 8:12 p.m., Tuesday. Or leave St. Paul 10:45 p.m., Sunday; 
arrive Glacier 8: 17 a.m., Tuesday; 4 or 5 daj'S in Glacier. Leave Glacier 8: 17 a.m., .Saturday; 

97 



98 THE JOLTRNAL OF HOME ECOXOMics [February 

arrive Seattle, 8:45 a.m., Sunday. Spend day in Seattle. Go to Mount Rainier Monday; 
3 days in Paradise Valley. Complete trip according to preceding schedule. 

Denver, Esles Park, Salt Lake City, and Vosemile National Park. 

Chicago to Denver via Burlington. Leave 11 p.m., e.g. Sunday; arrive Denver 7:30a.m., 
Tuesday; Wsit Denver until afternoon. Leave Denver 2 : 30 p.m. over Colorado and Southern; 
arrive Loveland 5:14 p.m.; take auto for Estes Park — lovely sunset ride of 30 odd miles; 
3 days in Estes Park. The round trip tickets purchased in Denver to Estes Park can be 
used to return by another route. 

Denver to Salt Lake City over Denver and Rio Grande Route — "Scenic Limited" train. 
Leave Denver 8:15 a.m., Saturday; arrive Salt Lake 12:25 p.m. Frequent trains between 
Salt Lake and Ogden. Leave Ogden — Southern Pacific Route — 1:20 p.m., Sunday; arrive 
Sacramento 10:40 a.m., ^londay; detour of Yosemite National Park — 4 days. Leave El 
Portal 8:30a.m., Friday; arrive Oakland Pier 7:30p.m., in time to cross the Bay and return. 
Leave Oakland Pier 10: 20 p.m. — this insures several hours in view of ISIount Shasta; arrive 
Albany, Oregon, 4 a.m., Sunday. Take auto or steam car 12 miles to Corvallis, or continue 
on train to Portland and take Columbia Highway drive. To leave the train at 4 a.m. is a 
rather bad finale, but the view of Shasta justifies a few hours less sleep. 

These are but a few of the many routes and side trips that may be taken in going to the 
coast. 

LINGERING IN OREGON 

There are many opportunities for real rest and for alluring new experiences for those who 
choose to remain on the coast. 

Inexpensive camping trips at the foot of glaciers or by mountain torrents or on the beach 
can easily be arranged. Tramping into uninhabited sections, moimtain climbing, and 
automobile excursions are all easily accomplished. Essential to women for real comfort 
and pleasure on the coast are a warm sweater, good tramping shoes, either trousers or a 
short warm skirt, and a dark (preferably woolen) waist or shirt. 

RETURNING 

When purchasing tickets insure a different route returning. 

Include Mount Rainier in your trip if possible. To go to the West and miss Rainier would 
be missing one of the greatest attractions. 

The Canadian Pacific route will entice many of the travelers on their return trip. 

Parties can be made up for a ten-day trip to Alaska by steamship. It is possible to com- 
bine the Alaskan trip and Canadian Pacific trip or any rail trip from either Seattle or Portland. 

A reversal of any of the west bound routes will prove interesting. 

ADVANCE PLANS 

The National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, will furnish pamphlets 
relating to the various National Parks in which the individual is interested, i.e. Yellowstone, 
Colorado National, Yosemite, Mount Rainier, and Glacier. 

Those desiring to go to Alaska should write early for folders from the three steamship lines 
accommodating summer tourists. It is absolutely necessary to make reservations far in 
advance. 

The Travel Committee is arranging for a special train via the Burlington and 
Great Northern route with a two day stop over in Glacier National Park, thence 
to Corvallis via Seattle. 

All those interested in the special train should write at once to the chairman 
of the Travel Committee, Miss Nina Slreeter, 1370 East 54th Street, Chicago, 
Illinois. 



1922] 



XEW5 FROM THE FIELD 



99 



The Fourth Annual Meeting of the 
American Dietetic Association was held 
at the Hotel La Salle in Chicago, October 
24-27, with a registration of about 500. 

Throughout the conventjon the close 
relationship between dietetics and medical, 
nursing, and social ser^-ice became more 
evident. The three-day program included 
papers and discussions on administrative 
problems, teaching problems, dietotherapj', 
and social service. 

Mary A. landsley, manager of the Grace 
Dodge Hotel for Women, in Washington, 
presided over the session for the discussion 
of equipment for the institution and the 
home. Margaret Proctor of the Y. W. C. -A.. 
discussed improper arrangements of eqmp- 
ment. Others on the program were 
George A. Smith of the Chicago Range 
Company and .Agnes Gleason, manager of 
the Parkway tea room in Chicago. 

The social service section meeting and 
round table were a credit to the chairman, 
Lucy Gillett of the nutrition bureau, .Asso- 
ciation for Impro\Tng the Condition of the 
Poor, Xew York Citj'. Sophonisba Breck- 
inridge, associate professor of sodologj'. 
University of Chicago, speaking on the 
question "To what extent should racial 
customs enter into any Americanization 
scheme?" said, ''to the greatest extent 
rendered possible by the knowledge, training, 
and sj-mpathy of the persons directing the 
Americanization efforts." Following Dr. 
Breckinridge's talk, four papers were given 
on "Dietarj' Customs of Various Nation- 
alities." 

At the meeting of the section on education 
under Dr. Ruth ^\"heeler, professor of nutri- 
tion, Universit}' of Iowa Medical College, 
standardized courses for nurses and dieti- 
tians were presented, '"^"hat Xui=es Xeed 
to Know about Dietetics" was the subject 
of a paper by Helena MacMiUan, principal 
of the school of nurses of the Presbyterian 
Hospital, Chicago. .An outline for a stu- 
dent nurses' dietetics course by use of the 
project method was presented by Katharine 
Fisher of Columbia Universit}'. Student 
dietitian courses were presented by Octavia 
Hall of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 



Boston, and Mary Foley of the Rochester 
Hospital, Rochester, Mian. Abby Marlatt, 
Universitj- of Wisconsin, gave an outline 
for two- and four-year preliminary courses 
for dietitians. 

At the dinner Mondaj' evening, Mrs. 
Mar>- De Garmo Bryan, president, outlined 
the objects of the association, the work 
that had been done during the year, and 
plans for the coming year. The con%'en- 
tion would do much, she said, toward 
cou%-indng the public of the fact that the 
dietitian is a professional person whose 
training demands utmost care. During the 
past j^ear the association has been instru- 
mental in installing two courses in dietetics 
for nurses and a preliminary course for the 
dietitian in imiversities, colleges, and tech- 
nical schools. Xext year a committee will 
compfle a list of hospitals and classif}' them 
according to size, equipment, and dietarj' 
standards. Viiih this list it will be possible 
for students to choose hog)itals offering the 
best training. 

Harriet Vittimi of Xorthwestem Uni- 
versity Settiement gave a talk on "Profes- 
sional Spirit." Madison E. Bentley, pro- 
fessor of psjxhologj" at the Universit}' of 
Illinois, in discussing diet and its relation 
to mood, said: The reflective and the 
anticipatory moods display only a casual 
relation to the v-isceral functions, but two 
other varieties, the quiescent — gloom, tran- 
quillit}', good humor — and the turbu- 
lent — petulance, restiessnes, gaiety — draw 
largely in their origin upon those organic 
sensations aroused by the processes of 
digestion and secretion. Dr. C. P. Howard, 
professor of internal medicine. University 
of Iowa, in his paper on "The Sphere of the 
Dietitian," said that her dutj- is the plan- 
ning of diets and not diagnosing diseases. 
Professor .A. J. Carlson of the University of 
Chicago in his address referred to the dislike 
of certain food as a psychic idios}Ticrasy 
and said that one of the most important 
tasks of the dietitian b the removal of these 
imaginary dislikes, especially with children. 
Dr. Sidney Kuh, a neurologist of Chicago, 
spoke of the importance of psychic influences 
in the a^imilation of foods, with the neu- 



100 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



rotic. A great deal of harm is done in 
cases of so-called nervous dyspepsia by too 
restricted a diet. 

One of the best attended meetings was 
that of the section on dietotherapy, under 
the chairmanship of Rena Eckman, Uni- 
versity of Michigan Hospital. Dr. Amy 
Daniels of the Child Welfare Research 
Station, University of Iowa, in her talk on 
"The Dietary Needs of Children," empha- 
sized the importance of a dietitian trained in 
children's dietetics. Dr. O. P. Kimball 
of the Medical Department of Cleveland 
Clinic, gave a paper on the "Prevention of 
Simple Goitre," in which he discussed the 
practical application of prevention of simple 
goitre in man as carried out through the 
public schools of Ohio. Dr. R. T. Wood- 
yatt, assistant professor of medicine, Uni- 
versity of Chicago, in his paper on "Newer 
Ideas on the Diet Management of Diabetes 
and Their Practical Working Out in the 
Hospitals," told of the work in the Meta- 
bolic Clinic at the Presbyterian Hospital 
in Chicago. Mr. John Street of the National 
Canner's Association talked on "Food Poi- 
soning." Mrs. Gertrude Gates Mudge, 
nutrition bureau, American Red Cross, 
called attention to the necessity of work- 
ing with the family as a whole and of 
including more work with the child of pre- 
school age. 

At the business meeting the follo\ving 
officers were elected for the ensuing year: 
Mrs. Mary de Garmo Bryan, editor of the 
Journal of Home Economics, president; 
Helen Pope, first vice-president; Octavia 
Hall, second vice-president; E. M. Geraghty, 
University of Illinois, secretary; Ellen 
Gladwin, Jefferson Hospital, Philadelphia, 
treasurer. 

Ruth Wardall, professor of home eco- 
nomics, Universit}' of Illinois, was the dele- 
gate of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

Conference of the City Supervisors. 
Dr. Tigert, Commissioner of Education, has 
called two conferences of city supervisors of 
home economics. The first conference is in 
New York City, beginning the evening of 



February 16 and extending through Feb- 
ruary 17 and 18. All home economics 
supervisors in the region east of Pittsburgh, 
Pa., and north of Richmond, Va., are especi- 
ally invited. The meetings will be open to 
all women. The topics chosen will be those 
of especial interest to city supervisors of 
home economics. On February 16 there 
will be a get-together supper, followed by 
addresses. The meetings of February 17 
win be held at Pratt Institute, and those of 
the 18th at Teachers College. The second 
conference will be held March 3 and 4 in 
Indianapolis or Chicago. Final plans will 
depend upon the expressed wishes of the 
majority of supervisors in the territory 
west of Pittsburgh, east of Jefferson City, 
Mo., and north of Memphis, Tenn. 

Correspondence concerning these con- 
ferences is in charge of Mrs. Henrietta W. 
Calvin, Specialist in Home Economics 
Education, Bureau of Education, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

Home Economics in Business. At the 
last annual meeting of the A. H. E. A., in 
Swampscott, the Council approved the 
formation of a committee of home economics 
women in commercial fields, instructing 
them to prepare a program for the CorvaUis 
meeting looking toward the formation of a 
section at that time. This represents a new 
development in the activities of the Associa- 
tion and needs careful consideration. Busi- 
ness organizations are establishing home 
economics departments offering information 
and assistance which may be valuable to 
the teacher or extension worker. Their 
funds often permit of more comprehensive 
work than can be done by the institution. 
Information in regard to work now being 
carried on by various commercial organiza- 
tions will be published in the Journal, 
in such cases as have been approved by a 
number of home economics teachers. 

One of tlie associations to establish an 
educational department was the American 
Washing Machine Manufacturers' Associa- 
tion with headquarters in Chicago. This 
association, composed of practically all 
manufacturers of washing machines, had in 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



101 



mind the development of the market for 
washing machines by acquainting women 
with the value of a machine. A large part 
of the work has been done through coopera- 
tion with home economics departments and 
extension divisions, planning the work on a 
plane which would allow the educational 
institution to use the resources of the asso- 
ciation. 

ReUable information is furnished on laun- 
dry supplies, methods of laundering, and the 
proper installation of home laundering 
equipment. Complete exhibits of all kinds 
of washing machines are placed at state 
meetings so that the home economics teachers 
or home demonstration agents may learn 
first hand the points to be considered in the 
selection of a washer. The information, 
adapted to local conditions, is then carried 
to the homes of the state by the e.xtension 
workers. Assistance has been given by this 
department in planning courses of study 
adapting the laundering information to the 
work given in the care of clothing and house- 
hold management. Twenty states now have 
a definite program under way in coopera- 
tion with the ^Manufacturers' Association 
and twenty other states have asked for such 
help for the coming year. A series of 
bulletins "Laundering at Home" deaUng 
with the various problems of laundering was 
published in June, 1921. Three thousand 
home economics teachers are using these 
bulletins. 

Training schools for demonstrators and 
salesmen are being held, so that reliable 
information wdll be given the housewife 
through this channel. The Manufacturers' 
Association is an.\ious to have suggestions 
from home economics departments in 
planning the work of their educational 
department. 

Shoes. Ignorance in regard to materials 
of which shoes are made, and the selection 
of im[)roper and harmful types of shoes, 
result in economic loss, inefficiency, irri- 
tability, and physical deformities, in the 
opinion of Dr. Hemy A. Gartner, De[)arl- 
ment of Orthopedic Surgery, Long Island 
College Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y. Even 



the so-called orthopedic shoes are not con- 
structed on correct anatomical lines. Dr. 
Gartner has persuaded certain manufacturers 
of children's shoes to construct shoes 
according to his findings in the study of 
hundreds of children. He has recently 
completed an accurate study of 100 children 
wearing properly made shoes from the time 
they began to walk until they were four 
years of age. Dr. Gartner urges education 
in the buying of correct and suitable shoes. 



The Home Economics Section of the 
Arizona State Teachers Association held a 
meeting in PhoenLx, November 21 to 23, 
1921. Mildred Weigley, Head of the Home 
Economics Department, University of Min- 
nesota, was the principal speaker. Miss 
Weigley was traveling through the western 
states on a speaking tour in the interest of 
the American Home Economics Association. 

Home Economics Equipment. Lulu R. 
Lancaster of the Home Economics Depart- 
ment, University of Arizona, has contributed 
some very valuable and practical suggestions 
on home economics equipment which have 
recently been published in bulletin form by 
the Federal Board for Vocational Education. 

DISTRICT OF COLtJMBIA 

The National Catholic Service School 
for Women opened the school year in its fine 
new quarters 2400 Nineteenth Street, 
N. W., Washington, D. C, on November 1st. 
There are a number of buildings, and room 
for others. The grounds are extensive and 
attractive, overlooking Rock Creek Park 
and the near-by region. 

Courses offered include Economics, Ethics, 
Social Case Work, Social Work, and Civil 
Law, The Charities of the Catholic Church 
Contemporary Social Welfare Organizations, 
Sociology and Social Psychology, Public 
Health, and Home Economics. Miss Helen 
Cronin is in charge of the latter. The two 
year course of training is designed primarily 
for giving the best possible mental equipment 
to social workers, but it also aims to train 
leaders for civic life. 



102 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Students must be college graduates of 
mature judgment and character. At the 
present time there are enrolled in the school 
young women from the United States, 
France, Belgium, Poland, the Philippine 
Islands, and Central America. 



The State Home Economics Association 

meeting was held in Indianapolis, October 
20-22, with Ivah Rhyan, president, presid- 
ing. The forenoon program was given over 
to a discussion of the proposed new State 
Course of Study on which our state council 
has been working for a year. The discus- 
sions were as follows: High School, Pro- 
posed Required Course, Florence Blazier, 
Assistant Professor of Home Economics, 
Indiana University; Proposed Elective, 
Ada Hillier, Supervisor Home Economics, 
South Bend; Grades, Mary Beeman, Super- 
visor Home Economics, Muncie, Indiana. 

At the noon luncheon, Mrs. R. A. Acher, 
a housewife and mother, of Terre Haute, 
spoke on, "What We Need to Fit Our Girls 
for Home Making." 

In the afternoon we were joined by the 
vocational home economics teachers in the 
following program: Diet in Relation to 
Health and Disease, Margaret Sawyer, 
Director of Nutrition, American Red Cross; 
The Home Spirit in Home Making, Maude 
Adams, Ohio State University; Some 
Problems in Home Economics, Helen Good- 
speed, former State Supervisor of Wisconsin. 

The Association voted to organize Indiana 
for affiliation with the American Home 
Economics Association and plans for that 
are being worked out to be presented at 
next year's meeting. 



Iowa State College. Increasing interest 
is manifest in graduate work in Home 
Economics. Dr. Elizabeth Miller, who has 
returned after a two year leave of absence for 
study, is in charge of this work. The four 
newly appointed fellows in home economics 
are: Ruth Spencer, AppUed Art; Frances 
NeweU, Household Science; Lois Rath, 



Household Art; Lydia Jacobson, Teacher 
Traiuing. 

A number of the members of the Home 
Economics Faculty are availing themselves 
of the opportunity to take a course in 
Improvement of Methods in College Train- 
ing, under Dr. Miller. 

Gertrude Linn has joined the Extension 
Staff as Specialist in Household Manage- 
ment. The Staff now numbers nine. 

The Work in Institutional Administration, 
which was established a year and a half ago 
is steadily growing in interest and numbers. 
The Courses offered are Institutional Foods 
(the classes serve 40 people daily), Institu- 
tional Buying (which includes the bu3dng of 
equipment and supplies). Institutional 
Management and Institutional Field Work. 
Eda Lord Murphy is in charge of the work. 

Extension Service. The Farm Bureau 
women of Iowa have been more eager than 
ever during the last few months to learn how 
to be of service to their homes and their 
communities. This spirit and interest were 
crystallized in the form of training schools 
for leadership. During the last seven 
months, thirty-eight all-day training schools 
have been conducted by the state leaders 
in seventeen coundes, and many of the 
schools reached every township in the 
county. The program took up the following 
phases of Farm Bureau work: Community 
Singing, The Purpose of the Meeting, The 
Farm Bureau for the Farm, Home, and 
Community, The Township Organization 
for Farm Bureau Work, Steps in Project 
Work, Duties of Township Officers, Train- 
ing Schools for Local Leaders and Project 
Leaders, Value and Duty of Leaders, Records 
and Reports, Value of Publicity Work. 

NEW ENGLAND 

The New England Home Economics 

Association instituted last year the custom of 
holding one of its meetings each year in some 
other place than Boston. In conformity 
witli this plan the Association accepted, for 
the meeting of November 12, the invitarion 
of the Housewives League to meet in Provi- 
dence. Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean Emerita 
of Simmons College, received, as speaker, 



1922] 



KEWS FROM THE FIELD 



103 



a most enthusiastic welcome. There is no 
question but that this plan for meeting will 
do much to stimulate interest in the general 
plans of the association. 

The Housewives League of Providence 

is an organization of about one thousand 
women, whose object is furthering the welfare 
of the home. Early in their work they real- 
ized the need for a knowledge of nutrition, 
and employed a dietitian to teach groups of 
women the essentials of feeding their families. 
The work was carried to the schools, and 
the classes for the mothers were combined 
with work with undernourished children. 
Because of the interest aroused, they were 
able to form a Cooperative Nutrition 
Bureau last year, with Mrs. Parnell E. 
Fisher, chairman of the Housewives League 
Dietetic Committee, as chairman. Other 
organizations associated with the bureau 
are the Providence Tuberculosis League, 
the Branch Avenue Neighborhood Center, 
the Parent Teachers Association, the Child 
Welfare Departments of the State and City 
Boards of Health, and the State Home 
Economics E.xtension Department. From 
the single dietitian with her family visiting, 
the work now includes regular meetings, in 
the school hours, of all underweight children, 
home visits with their parents, and work 
with twenty-two nutrition groups. 

In addition to the work with the Rhode 
Island Home Economics Association the 
League is in touch with the New England 
Home Economics Association, and many of 
its members attend the meetings of this 
organization. 

Massachusetts Minimum Wage Com- 
mission, in connection with a wage award 
to candy makers, placed living requirements 
of a self-supporting woman at $13.50 a week, 
itemized as foUows: Board and room, $8.50; 
clothing, S2.50; laundry, 20 cents; carfares, 
40 cents; doctors and dentist, 50 cents; 
church, 15 cents; self-improvement, recrea- 
tion, and community interests, 50 cents; 
vacation, 20 cents; reserve for emergencies, 
30 cents; incidentals, 25 cents. 



New York State HomeEconomics Asso- 
ciation. The annual meeting of the New 
York State Home Economics Association 
was held in Buffalo, November 21-22, during 
the meeting of the State Teachers' Associa- 
tion, with the Vice President, Edith M. 
Barber, Director Syracuse Home Bureau, 
presiding. It was unanimously voted to 
become affiliated with the American Home 
Economics Association under the new 
regional plan. 

Edna N. White, Director of the Merrill- 
Pahner School, Detroit, Michigan, who has 
recently returned from a survey of home 
economics conditions in Europe, spoke on 
"Field News From the Other Side." In 
addition the following program was pre- 
sented: Household Arts in the Elementary 
Schools, Grace Schermerhorn, Director of 
Cooking, New York Public Schools; Survey 
of Committee of 21, George A. Works, 
Professor of Rural Education, ComeU 
University; Nutrition in the Grade Schools, 
Mary G. McCormick, Supervisor of Nutri- 
tion for School Children, State Department 
of Education; The Class Project, Mrs. 
Josephme Cross, Teacher of Homemaking,— 
discussion led by Treva E. Kauffman, Super- 
visor of Home Economics, State Depart- 
ment of Education; Problems of the Home, 
Martha Van Rensselaer; and a discussion of 
the Problems of the Larger Household led 
by Emma H. Gunther, Teachers CoUege, 
Columbia University, assisted by repre- 
sentatives of eight different lines of institu- 
tional management located in and near 
Buffalo. 

An unusually weU-arranged exhibit of 
home economics schoolwork in clothing, 
with special emphasis given to its bearing 
upon health, was on display in the Hutchin- 
son High School. 

Grace P. Gillett, New York State CoUege 
for Teachers, is the newly elected president; 
Edith M. Barber continues as vice-president, 
and Edith Sarver, Supervisor of Home 
Economics, Schenectady, as secretary and 
treasurer. 



104 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



The New York City Home Economics 
Association held its December meeting on 
Tuesday January sixth, with the subject for 
discussion, Home Economics Problems in 
Social Work. The meeting was led by 
Mrs. Amy Drinkwater Storer, Director 
Nutrition Service, Atlantic Division, Ameri- 
can Red Cross. Short talks were given by 
social workers from the city Red Cross, 
which has established a teaching center 
where free instruction is given in special 
diets; from the Hebrew Charities Association, 
which is working with mothers and under- 
nourished children; from the Association for 
Improving the Condition of the Poor, which 
deals with problems of nutrition through its 
budget work; and from hospitals and other 
welfare organizations. The meeting showed 
the work which is being done along the lines 
of nutrition, and the efforts which are being 
made by all welfare organizations to coop- 
erate in the solution of the malnutrition 
problem. 

Teachers College. The School of Prac- 
tical Arts is conducting, during January, 
February, and March, two new series of 
popular lecture-demonstrations in cookery 
for homemakers. The lecturers are Bertha 
E. Shapleigh, Anna Barrows, Mary I. 
Barber. The first series will deal with new 
methods of utilization and garnishing of 
everj'day foods. The second series will 
deal with the preparation of simple and 
attractive meals, especially luncheons and 
Sunday night suppers. 

The Meat Council of New York was 
formed some months ago for the general 
purpose of bettering the service of the meat 
industry. It handles complaints and dis- 
penses information relating to the retail 
meat business and the meat industry in 
general. The Meat Council's membership 
contains delegates representing the retail 
meat dealers of Greater New York, repre- 
sentatives of the wholesalers, and repre- 
sentation from the Bureau of Markets, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture. 

NORTH DAKOTA 

The Home Economics Section of the 
North Dakota State Teachers Association 



met in session with the State Teachers 
Association at Fargo, November 21 to 23. 
The entire group of home economics teachers 
was most enthusiastic over the prospects of 
a state organization and voted unanimously 
to take one session for the purpose of organ- 
izing. Mrs. Myrtle Cole was elected presi- 
dent, Marie Stevenson, vice-president, Chris- 
tine Finlayson, secretary, and Fern Filling- 
ham, treasurer. For the present, four 
sections seemed to cover the need of the 
state organization. Alba Bales was made 
chairman of the Teachers' Section; Mrs. 
Mabel HoUis, chairman of the Homemakers' 
Section; Miss Swope, chairman of the Insti- 
tutional Section; and Grace DeLong, chair- 
man of Extension Section. 

Over sixty-five persons registered and 
expressed their intention of becoming 
members. Since that time the association 
has affiliated with the American Home 
Economics Association, with thirty-seven 
paid members. From present indications, 
there wiU be a very enthusiastic and active 
State organization in North Dakota. 



A New Practice House at Ohio State 
University was opened, December first, for 
the use of the department in providing 
training for students who are preparing to 
be vocational home economics teachers. 
This enterprise is being financed by voca- 
tional funds. Six students and a member of 
the home economics faculty are now living 
there. The student group will change each 
six weeks. The practice apartment which 
has for some time been maintained in the 
home economics building will continue to 
be used also, so that an exceptionally good 
opportunity for home management experi- 
ence is provided. 

The Household Arts Department of the 
Woman's Club of Cxford, under the guid- 
ance of Alice Swisher of Miami University, 
is making a study of food under the following 
topics: (a) significance of food, (b) mal- 
nutrition of children, (c) school lunches, 
(d) food for children, (e) food for adults, 
(f) dietaries, (g) food for the sick and con- 
valescent. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



105 



The Cleveland Home Economics Asso- 
ciation held its first meeting of the year 
Monday, November 4, at Hayden Hall, 
College for Women, W. R. U. Mary E. 
Parker, president, presided. Dr. G. W. 
Crile of national reputation, spoke on 
"Exhaustion and Restoration with Special 
Reference to the Problem of Nutrition," 
illustrating his talk with lantern slides. 
Before the lecture, tea was served by the 
sophomore class of the college. 

Diet Lectures. Dr. E. V. McCollum of 
Johns Hopkins University gave three lec- 
tures in Cleveland, November 30, under the 
auspices of the Cuyahoga County Public 
Health Association and interested civic 
associations. The lecture on Scientific Diet 
given in the afternoon at the Florence Hark- 
ness Memorial Chapel, W. R. U., was 
designed especially for those trained tech- 
nically along food Unes, and was in charge 
of the Cleveland Home Economics 
Association. 

An Exhibition of Articles Suitable for 
Christmas Problems was held by the semng 
teachers of the Cleveland public schools, the 
week of November 16-23, at the Board of 
Education Building. This exhibition was 
plarmed as a clearing-house of ideas for 
teachers, and articles entered were such as 
would require only one or two lesson periods 
in the making. Nothing was accepted that 
was not of real value %vhen completed, and 
each article was accompanied by all neces- 
sary directions for its construction. This 
exhibit, the second of its kind to be held here, 
was found to be exceptionally helpful. 

SOUTH DAKOTA 

The Home Economics Section of the 
South Dakota Education Association met in 
Huron, November 21 to 23, 1921, with the 
president, Fannie Sims of the University of 
South Dakota, presiding. The members of 
the association voted to affiliate with the 
American Home Economics Association and 
to make the necessary changes in their dues 
and constitution. The officers elected for 
the coming year are: President, Edith 
Pearson, State College, Brookings; vice 
President, Clara Flemington, City Schools, 
Aberdeen; secretary and treasurer, Catherine 
ilcKay, City Schools, Huron. 



Some of the papers on the program were: 
Standardization of Home Economics Courses 
in South Dakota, Edna Courtnej', State 
Supervisor of H. E.; Comparative Value of 
Texts for High School Use in Teaching Foods 
and Clothing, S. Patti Jones, Elkton; Home 
Projects, Helen Johnston, Bryant; Studies, 
of the Malnutrition of School Children, 
Ruth Dougherty, Watertown; Educational 
Tests as Applied to Home Economics, 
Ruetta Day, State University, Vermilion. 

The Round Table discussion included 
popularizing home economics, plans for 
projects, cost of operating departments, 
and teaching the budget system. 



The Utah Educational Association held 
its 1921 meeting, October 20-22, in Salt 
Lake City. The morning and afternoon 
sessions of October 21 were devoted to the 
various section meetings. The Home Eco- 
nomics Section claimed by far the largest 
number of home economics teachers who 
have ever come together at any meeting of 
this Section, the attendance numbering 165 
in the morning and 140 in the afternoon. 
Several special guests, friends of home 
economics, gave an element of added interest 
to the meetings. Those who joined in the 
noon luncheon in Hotel Utah found the good- 
fellowship, thus promoted, a means of sus- 
taining the lively interest which attended 
the morning meeting, and of carrying it over 
to the afternoon program. The officers in 
charge of these sessions deserve praise for the 
pronounced success of the meetings. 

The excellence of the program is suggested 
by the titles. Each subject was allowed 
twenty minutes for presentation and was 
follosved by a ten to twenty minute general 
discussion under direction of a leader, as 
follows: Points of Emphasis in Methods 
and Course of Study at Teachers' College, 
Effie Wamick, Pleasant Grove High School; 
The Peak of Interest in the Last A. H. E. A. 
Convention, Je.ssie Whitacre, Utah Agri- 
cultural College; jSIethods of Correlating 
Art with Domestic Art, Mary Bastow, 
Brigham Young College; The Thought of 
the Child, Rose Jones, University of Utah; 
High Lights for Home Nursing, Sadie 
Tooth, School Nurse, Manti,'Utah; What 



106 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



We May Expect from Our Higher 
Institutions in Experimental Research, 
Blanche Cooper, Department of Human 
Nutrition, Experiment Station, Utah Agri- 
cultural College. 

The action wliich immediately preceded 
adjournment was particularly appropriate 
and gratif>'ing. The meeting voted unani- 
mously to adopt the new plan for affiliation 
with the A. H. E. A., and has since com- 
pleted affiliation with forty-five paid up 
members. 

WASHINGTON 

High School Dress Reform. After sev- 
eral weeks of discussion, Dress Reform was 
instituted in the high school of Walla Walla, 
Washington, by the girls themselves. Each 
of the fifteen organizations in which girls 
are represented met and determined upon the 
type of reform and the means of enforcement. 
From the reports of these groups a committee 
of representative girls formulated the perma- 
nent Dress Regulations, which were voted 
upon iA the Girls' Assembly and passed by an 
ovenvhelming majority. SimpUcity, mod- 
esty, good taste, and non-extravagance were 
emphasized throughout the reform. The reg- 
ulations have barred velvets, georgette 
crepe, silk (except in simple waists), very 
thin materials, scant camisoles, extremely 
short or extremely tight shirts, silk hose, 
French heels, roUed-down hose, fancy garters, 
excessive cosmetics, and extravagant hair- 
dress. 

Of equal importance with the regulations 
has been the method of enforcement. This 
is delegated to a Girls' Council composed of 
nine representative girls and a president 
chosen from the girls at large. Each week 
this organization meets with the Dean of 
Girls, and hears and sentences all girls who 
have refused to conform to the regulations. 
Offenders are reported by the girls them- 
selves, every girl in the high school having 
this privilege. On the third appearance 
before the Council the parents or guardian 
of the girl must be notified, and on the 
fourth, the Council may recommend sus- 
pension for the culprit. 

Although the reform has been operative 
only since March 5, 1921, the results have 
been more than satisfactory. The girls and 



their parents have given their enthusiastic 
support. One organization of mothers 
secured the cooperation of the local stores 
and presented a very successful Style Show 
to express its appreciation. The girls have 
succeeded in making simple and modest 
dressing popular and feel justly proud of 
what they have accomplished. — Ethel L. 
O'Connor, Dean of Girls High School. 



Omicron Nu at the University of Kansas 
recently conducted a very successful cam- 
paign among the students in the Department 
of Home Economics, and sent in thirty 
subscriptions to the Journal of Houe 
Economics. 

Lulu Graves, formerly Professor of Home 
Economics at Cornell University, has joined 
the staff of Mount Sinai Hospital as Super- 
visor of Dietary Work of the private patients 
and children's departments. Miss Graves 
wiD also organize at Mount Sinai classes in 
nutritional work for nurses. 



Domestic Labour-Saving Competition. 

American women are urged to enter a com- 
petition opened by the Woman's Engineer- 
ing Society, London, in order to stimulate 
interest in the invention and improvement 
of devices for sa\'ing labour in the home. 

The competition is divided into three 
sections: a. engineering devices suitable for 
mechanical, electrical, and automobile work; 
b. structural improvements; c. any other 
labour-saving appliance for the home. 
Competitors may enter for each section, 
but no competitor shall be eligible to receive 
more than one prize. An entrance fee of 
2 /6 will be charged for each entry in each 
section. Only %vorking models or working 
drawings \vill be accepted, size of drawings 
not to exceed 30 by 22 inches, and the 
length, height, and width of models added 
together not to exceed 60 inches. The 
following prizes will be awarded: section a, 
seven guineas; section b, five guineas; sec- 
tion c, three guineas. 

All models and drawings must reach the 
offices of the Women's Engineering Society, 
26 George Street, Hanover Square, London, 
W 1, on or before March 31, 1922. 



Vol. XIV, No. 3 March. 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

MAiY DE Garuo Bryan. Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Ediiot 

Editorial Board 
Mb5. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthv Amy Daniels Katharine Fishes Grace G. Denny 

Editor of "The Question Box," Amy Daniels 
Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mrs. Hazzard, Social Welfare 
Florence Ward. Extension 

Katharine Blunt and Sybil Woodritpp, Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell, Education 
Ruth O'Brien. Textiles 
Henrietta French, Institution Economics 
Alice Biester. Bibliography 

Collaborators — The Officers. Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Reform of Girls' Schools in Austria Maria Marescli 107 

Launderixg Lydia Jacohson 109 

Social .\gexcies i.v the Ccal Fields of West Virginia Isabella Wilson 114 

Bas.1L Metabolism of Women and Underweight Children Katharine Blunt 117 

.Administration Problems Agnes Gleason 121 

.\ Bl-dget Project in Three State Colleges for Women S. Deborah Haines 125 

The Ri-RAL Schcol Lunch Today Lottie Milam 128 

Iron .\xalvsis of Kale ant) Turnip Greens . . Marietta Eichelbergcr and Maude Asbiiry 131 
For the IIomemaker 

The Price of Progress Caroline B. Sherman 133 

Report of a Test of Floor Oils Melissa Farrell Snyder 137 

Data ox Water Heating ix the Home 138 

Computing Heating Aalues 139 

The Farm Woman ant) her Sewing 139 

Cedar Chests 140 

Wholesale Prices ix Uxited States and Caxada 140 

EDrroRiAL 141 

The Open Forum 144 

Books and Literature 147 

News from the Field 151 

Special Train to Corvallis 1^1 



The Journal op Home Economics is published moothly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.50 A YEAR FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES M CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft. Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to me American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of charge in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change iato take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Bottoo; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago: Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICi—ADVERTlSEMEMS 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 




The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 



\c^^^L^^^'i 






fe ■.>....-,-.c^l 



ROltAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 






In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Xrv M\RCH, 1922 Xo. 3 

THE REFORM OF GIRLS' SCHOOLS IN AUSTRIA 

MARIA MARESCH 
Austrian Ministry of Education 

For a long time the teaching of girls was the subject of discussion be- 
tween two groups: one beKe\ing that girls should be trained in schools 
for earning their li\-ing Uke boys, the other that girls should be pre- 
pared only for their domestic vocation of wife and mother. The former 
advocated the identity of girls' and boys' schools; the latter favored 
girls' schools teaching home economics, histor\', and languages, but not 
mathematics and natural science, as in the Austrian system and the 
higher schools for girls in Germany. 

Economic need, however, compelled the two groups to agree on one 
form of girls' school, whose aim is to prepare the girls, not only for earn- 
ing a li\-ing or for their vocation as wife, mother, and housekeeper, but 
for both duties. No girl knows her future, and many, in addition to 
f ulfillin g the duties of wife and mother, are compelled to earn their bread 
and the bread of their children. The income of a man of middle class in 
Austria is never large enough to provide adequate nourishment for a 
whole family, and most girls marrj- now with the intention of being both 
worker and wife. They must be prepared for both. The few girls who 
will not be obliged to f ulfill both duties need instruction in economics of 
the household, for the immense increase in prices exacts the most care- 
ful and rational use of all materials in kitchen and house. The lack of 
such knowledge is often the first cause of social decline, and the social 
decline of one person affects all people. Economic instruction is no 
longer a matter of indixidual decision; today the state must pro\-ide 
everj- girl a measure of training during the period of compxilsor}- schooling, 
that is, from the seventh to the fourteenth years. 

107 



108 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The Ministry of Public Instruction has introduced the teaching 
of home economics in the last class of all primary schools. In 35 half 
days of cookery the girls of fourteen years learn the most important 
methods of conservation and buying for the house, and the use of milk, 
eggs, fat, flour, meat, rice, potatoes, legumes, green vegetables. They 
are taught the composition of foods, the nutritive value, the price, and 
quality. In a two hour period each week the girls become familiar with 
materials such as clothing and furnishings, as well as with the principles 
of sanitation, physiology, and child hygiene. The teaching of home 
economics must give more than the knowledge of the operation of the 
house; it must show young people that cookery, sewing, and the whole 
technique of daily life are necessary steps in expressing the highest social 
instincts. It has the same importance, whether the old familiar house- 
hold is to remain or the common household, of which socialists dream, 
is to come. That training must prepare the girls to use the results of 
modern progress in the home to save hiunan energy and time and to per- 
mit them to attain other cultural ends. 

These views caused the reform of the higher girls' schools also. Besides 
the gymnasium which is the same for girls and boys, there arose a new 
type of higher school for girls, the Frauenschule. The type is new, 
although the name has been used previously in Germany. But in 
Germany, Frauenschule is a course of only practical instruction which 
girls enter after the lyceum. The Austrian Frauenschule receives pupils 
in the 14th year and they remain till the 18th. Required subjects are 
the same ones taught in other schools of the same grade, but the method 
of teaching is different. Teaching in cookery, sewing, and nursing is 
in connection with natural science, mathematics, and all other required 
subjects, not in addition to them. The girls, instructed in the Frauen- 
schule will be pioneers of the housekeeping of the future. Spirit and 
soul will dominate all technical knowledge when woman conceives the 
importance of her social mission, which is to strengthen and improve 
society by choosing wisely materials necessary for its upbuilding. Thus 
inanimate things will be made to react to the development of humanity. 



1922] LAUNDERING 109 

LAUNDERING* 

LYDIA JACOBSON 
Textile Chemistry Laboratories, Iowa State College 

Laundering involves a knowledge of the chemistry of textile fibers, 
water, detergents, soaps, starches, bleaching agents, bliungs, and dyes, 
as well as some knowledge of machinery and skUl in managing manipu- 
lative processes. It is a subject which has received considerable 
scientific investigation because of both its practical and theoretical 
interest. The purpose of this article is to summarize results of recent 
investigations. 

Laundering as a part of the manufacturing process has been for many 
years the subject of extensive research and experimentation, but not 
until recently has it been studied from the laimderer's point of view. 
For the past five years the Laundry Owners National Association have 
maintained a fellowship at Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, 
University of Pittsburgh, for the purpose of improving the industry 
through the appHcation of science. As a result, three charts on standard 
wash room practices and one on the removal of stains have been prepared 
by H. G. Elledge, besides a book, written in cooperation with Alice 
Lucile Wakefield, on "The Conservation of TextUes.''^ It contains many 
photomicrographs and illustrations showing that the damage suffered 
by fabrics in the process of being laundered is often due to the original 
condition of the fiber and the weave of the fabric. They emphasize 
the fact that the manufacturer, user, and launderer are all responsible 
for the length of life of a fabric. 

However, a successful laundering process also depends upon a wise 
choice of reagents, especially of detergent and bluing, and both of these 
have been studied extensively. 

Soaps. A resume of recent experimental work, together with an ex- 
planation of the new conception of the nature of soap solution, will be 
found in the "Third Report on Colloid Chemistry and Its General and 
Industrial AppUcations," pubhshed by British Association for Advance- 
ment of Science. McBain, Professor of Physical Chemistry, University 
of Bristol, and his co-workers have estabhshed by authentic experiments 
that soap solutions belong to a class of colloidal electrolytes defined as 

* This is the first of a series of articles dealing with recent advances in textiles and textile 
chemistry. 

' Published by the Laundry Owners National Association, La Salle, III. 



110 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

"salts in which one of the ions has been replaced by a heavily charged, 
heavily hydrated, ionic micelle which exhibits equivalent conductivity 
that is not only comparable with that of a true ion but may even amount 
to several times that of the simple ion from which it has been derived. 
In other words, this ionic micelle is a typical, very highly charged colloi- 
dal particle of great conductivity." This theory explains the seeming 
inconsistency exhibited by a soap solution of high conductivity in spite 
of low osmotic effects, and accounts for other peculiarities such as 
uncommonly low density and remarkable detergent action. In the 
light of this new conception and after a thorough survey of the literature 
on the subject, McBain summarizes the following factors as being im- 
portant in the detergent action of soap : 

1. Necessity of having soap in solution. Kraft^ proved experimen- 
tally that the detergent action of a soap varies with its solubility and 
showed that stearates and pahnitates being insoluble in cold water are 
less effective than oleates which are soluble in cold water. Jackson' 
showed also that the colloidal nature of oleates persists well into dilute 
solutions and therefore are the most effective soaps to use on materials 
which would be injured by high temperature of concentrated solution. 

2. Power of emulsification which goes parallel with low surface tension 
and formation of surface fihns. 

3. Wetting power, which makes it possible for a soap solution to creep 
between and dislodge particles of oily dirt so that they can be flushed 
away. Emulsifying and wetting power were attributed by early writers 
to hydrolysis of the soap, but Hillyer' proved experimentally that emul- 
sifying properties of soap could not be attributed to hydrolysis and that 
alkali does not wet oily matter as soap does. Hence both must be due 
to undecomposed soap. 

4. The action of soap in forming non-adhesive colloidal sorption 
compoimds with tissues and impurities which are capable of remaining 
in stable suspension. Spring^ attributed the detergent action of soaps 
to a combination of acid soap (derived from hydrolysis) with dirt par- 
ticles to form sorption compounds which could not adhere to the fabric. 
This may be indicated by the following reaction: dirt-fabric -|- soap = 
dirt-acid soap -1- clean fabric. McBain suggests, however, that a more 
logical alternative would be to consider it a double decomposition re- 

'Ber. 1894, 27: 1747-1755; 1895, 28: 2566; 1896, 29: 1328; 1899, 32: 1584. 

' Cantor Lectures. 

*J. Am. Chem. Soc, 1903, 25: 511-524-1256. 

» Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg., 1909, p. 187-949. 



1922] LAu^a)ERr^rG 111 

action in which two sorption compounds are formed — fabric soap and 
dirt soap; and furthermore that the sorption compound is due to soap 
itself rather than acid soap. Pickering" agrees with Spring that such 
acid-dirt sorption compounds could be formed but points out the fact 
that preventing hydrolysis does not decrease detergent action. 

5. Colloidal condition of soap. This has been conclusively demon- 
strated by Hillyer and Spring who proved that detergent action is in- 
fluenced by the chemical composition of soap only so far as this affects 
their behavior as colloids. 

Rosser' has recently investigated the subject of soaps with reference 
to soap saving. He concludes that different soaps show the following 
order in cleansing power: tallow soaps, soaps from Uquid vegetable 
oils or olein, coconut and palm-kernal oil soaps, and rosin soap. The 
greatest cleansing efficiency is obtained with 0.2 to 0.4 per cent soap 
solutions. 

The need of some standard method of determining the cleansing effect 
of soaps and other washing compounds has been quite apparent. Heer- 
man* describes a laboratory method in which all factors are controlled 
and results are comparable. 

The launderer, though not directly concerned with the manufacture of 
soap, is nevertheless as much interested in obtaining soaps which combine 
economy and efficiency as the manufacturer. The scarcity of fat avail- 
able for soap making has elicited considerable experimentation and study 
of possible substitutes, especially in Germany. G. Weissenberger^ 
found it possible to substitute a clay from Gaura, Siebenburg, for part of 
the fat and obtain a detergent which proved useful in a practical washing 
test. Fenton'" also produced a soap made with as high as 50 per cent 
clay. The claims" made for coUoidal clay soaps prepared by incorporat- 
ing the clay directly with the oil or fat and caustic during saponification 
are: (1) It is more soluble in water and lathers more quickly. (2) It 
is ready for use sooner after manufacture and does not become too dry by 
long keeping. (3) It is less likely to contain free aLkaU owing to the 
absorptive power of colloidal clay. (4) It improves in quahty on aging. 

« /. Chem. Soc, UI, p. 86. 

' Seijensieder Ztg., 1921, 48: 268-9, 290-1, 309-10, 355-7. 

^Brrlin Zlg., Deitt. Oel-Fett-Ind., 1921, 41: 338-41. 

' Kolloid Ztg., 1920, 27: 69-78. 
" Sc. Am., 1920, 123: 183, Ag. 21. 

" CoUoidal Clay and Hydrolysis of Fats and Oils. Cliem. Age (London), 1921, 4: 604-5, 
638-41. 



112 THE JOTIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Cereal soaps'^ have been made by hydrolyzing a cereal flour and saponi- 
fying with alkali. Dried or liquid cheese, whey, milk, skim milk, or 
buttermilk can be added to the extent of 5-20 per cent. 

The hydrocarbons have been considered as another possible substitute 
for fat. By oxidizing the hydrocarbons, especially paraffine, to higher 
fatty acids, they will combine with an alkah to form soap. The process 
has been tried on a commercial scale in Germany." 

Sulfuroil," which is a product obtained from the manufacture of olive 
oil by extracting the press cake with carbon bisulfide, may be utilized 
for soap making and if mixed with other fats produces a hard soap suit- 
able for household use. 

Schrauth'5 ha,s patented a process for making a soap from hydrogenated 
phenols. The soap so produced, being soluble in benzine is especially 
suitable for dry cleaning. New methods of making soap antiseptic 
have been patented in both Germany and the United States. Croner*^ 
succeeded in making a soft potassiimi soap from a mixture of fatty and 
hydroxy fatty acids in such proportions that the potassium hydroxy 
fatty acid soap dissolves in the formaldehyde added and is claimed to 
possess great disinfecting power. A United States patent covers a 
process by which sufficient chlorine gas is occluded in soap to give it 
both antiseptic and bleaching properties. 

Aside from the investigation of Keit^* which estabUshed the fact that 
rosin soap and washing compounds containing trichlorethylene produce 
a yellow tint in fabrics, no comparative studies have been made to de- 
termine which soaps combine the greatest number of advantages. The 
average laundress has no way of determining the value of the soap she 
buys except by the trial and error method, and consequently cannot 
easily detect dishonest advertising; but mills, laimdries, and others 
using large quantities of soap can require that the soap purchased 
conform to certain specifications. The most recent report on the sub- 
ject of soap analysis will be found in the Journal of Industrial and 
Engineering Chemistry, August, 1919. 

'2 U. S. Patent 1,360,252, Nov. 30, 1921. 

1' Chem. Ztg., 1921, 45: 177-8. 

'* Seifensieder Ztg., 1920, 47: 711-2. 

^^ Berlin Ztg. Dent. Oel-Fett-Ind., 1921, 41: 129-32. 

" Seifensieder Ztg., 1921, 48: 3-4. 

" Patent-Chem. Ab., Vol. 15, p. 1827. 

1' Seifensieder Ztg., 1921, 48: 41-2. 



1922] LAUNDERING 113 

Billings. — H. Mayer" has investigated the four types of ultramarine 
bluing and gives three tests for determining quality. 

1. Purity of shade — By spreading powdered ultramarine on white 
paper a mixture of colors would be quite noticeable. 

2. Coloring capacity — By mixing equal weights of samples to be 
tested with five times its weight of plaster of Paris a difference in in- 
tensity of color may easily be detected. 

3. Fineness — By shaking a quantity in water and noting the time re- 
quired for complete subsidence, the fineness may be determined. 

The presence of foreign material is determined as follows: (1) Starch 
may be detected by boiling in water. (2) Dextrine is recognized by the 
odor. (3) By adding hydrochloric acid to the solution a greenish blue 
color shows indigo carmine to be present, while the absence of color 
indicates prussian blue. Several tests for aniline dyes are given. Wash 
blue, China blue, and indigotin are recommended as being suitable for 
laundry purposes. 

Laundering as now done in most homes and in many laundries must 
be an art; it is not a science. Most of the suggestions for its improve- 
ment have come from popular literature where errors have been mul- 
tiplied many times. However, with the present increasing amount 
of experimentation on this and related subjects, it should ultimately 
be as well taught and as scientifically done as any other household task. 

»» Seifensieder Zlg., 1921, 48: 89-111-2, 129-30, 151-2. 



114 THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

SOCIAL AGENCIES IN THE COAL FIELDS OF 
WEST VIRGINIA' 

ISABELLA WILSON 
Marshall College, Huntington, West Virginia 

At first glance any one who knows West Virginia would say, "How 
can one speak with authority for the women of the mining regions of the 
entire state?" Since the mountains which divide one section of the 
state from another are so high, and the roads over many of them are 
bridle paths or still more impassable, it is almost impossible to know what 
is progressing in each Uttle mining village. If some good work has been 
omitted, this is the excuse. West Virginia has voted a bond issue not to 
exceed $50,000,000 to build good roads, and this construction is going 
on at present. 

As one travels about the state the change that has come over it in the 
last thirty years caimot but prove startling. At that time West Virginia 
made small promise, to the casual observer, of the competition she was 
to give the older coal fields. Thirty years ago the primary occupations in 
West Virginia were rural ones — farming, sheep and cattle raising. 
Lumber was an important product but many hea\dly timbered lands had 
no railroad outlets. The northern end of the state was enjoying an oil 
and gas boom. Huntington was a town of ten thousand population; 
Charleston was not much larger; Beckley had 158 inhabitants; William- 
son, Welch, St. Albans, and Bluefield were small rural lillages. In the 
last thirty years Raleigh County has quadrupled its population; Mc- 
Dowell County has nine times as many people, while many counties 
have doubled their population. In the rural homes of many communities 
were largely produced all necessary goods, such as clothing, soap, foods, 
except flour, salt, sugar, and condiments. The people raised their own 
wheat, and traded one commodity for another. As far back as 1910, 
97 per cent of the inhabitants were native born. 

But a change has swept over the state. From living in sparsely lo- 
cated rural sections, the people have swarmed into closely settled mining 
villages. The conditions of life are entirely different, and one who has 
Hved two miles from a neighbor cannot readily adjust himself to living 

' This paper deals chiefly with the work among women and girls. The writer spent the 
summer of 1921 in traveling through the mining sections of the state, and has worked for three 
years in the coal fields as County Home Demonstration Agent of Logan County, as Welfare 
Director of the Logan Mining Company, and in State E.xtension Work. 



1922] SOCIAL AGENCIES IN THE COAL FIELDS 115 

within sixty feet of one. The density of population changed from 31 
persons per square mile in 1900 to 50 per square mile in 1910. Here we 
have gathered together, in an almost continuous mining village, thou- 
sands of rural-thinking people who face, not only a new Une of work, 
but a new way of living. The women who formerly produced as well 
as preserved and prepared the bulk of the food, now buy food which needs 
preparation only. They who formerly milked the cows and worked 
the garden now prepare two meals a day and keep a four- or six-room 
house clean. Any social program for the women of the mining sections 
which does not take this into account will be a failure. Woman as well 
as man must work to be happy. 

Social work has been carried on in the coal fields by seven different 
agencies: the Young Women's Christian Association, the Young Men's 
Christian Association, the Red Cross, the State Health Department, 
the pubhc schools, reHgious organizations, and the coal operators who 
desired to better conditions in their camps. 

The Young Women's Christian Association has had workers in mining 
town work only at Fayette in Raleigh Coimty. Fayette Coimty now 
has four workers and hopes to have six. It is difficult to find the right 
workers. The Y. W. C. A. workers use the extension projects and do 
intensive community work.^ 

The Yoimg Men's Christian Association works with the Island Creek 
Coal Company at Holden, MonaviUe, Mallory, and other points. A 
large Y. M. C. A. House is built usually containing a moving picture 
show, barber shop, pool room, bowling alley, soda foimtain, reading 
room, and lodge hall. A secretary is placed in charge and the building 
is made a community center. Here the women hold Ladies Aid and 
Red Cross meetings, festivals, and dances. 

The Winding Gulf CoUiery Company, Winding Gulf, does the wel- 
fare work through the pubHc school, as do the United States Steel 
Company of Gary, the Lundale Fuel Company, the E. E. White Coal 
Company, and the W. F. Tams Company. In some instances the school 
principal is hired for twelve months. He then has charge of boy scouts 
or other boys' clubs. Each teacher receives $250 to $300 bonus for en- 
gaging in some outside activity. The Logan Mining Company, Logan, 
W. Va., has two workers, a social \4sitor and a nurse.^ At present they 

' By writing to the Industrial Secretary of the Y. W. C. A., 600 Lexington Ave., New 
York Citj , one may obtain full aims of the work done by this organization. 
' See "Welfare Work in a Mining Town," Jour. Home Econ., January, 1919. 



116 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

have no classes in cooking or sewing for the girls. The Aracoma Coal 
Company and the Thurmond and Argyle Coal Company of Logan 
County, the Leckie Coal Company, and the Pocahontas Fuel Company 
employ nurses. The nurses serve in most cases a purely medical func- 
tion ; in others, they are social visitors and see that the company property 
is not abused. 

The social rehgious worker is not so numerous yet as the nurse. We 
find one at Whitman Creek in Logan County, another at Mallory, another 
at Gilbert. Their salaries are paid by the churches. The Presbyterian 
Church has twenty-five social religious workers in the mountains and 
mining towns. Their work is principally Christian instruction. They 
conduct Sunday schools and Bible classes and make home visits. Dur- 
ing these home visits they discuss sanitation, cooking, and clothing 
problems with the mothers. These workers come from the training 
school at Richmond, Virginia, but are not trained along home economics 
lines. Dr. Mauze, pastor of the Presybterian Church, Huntington, 
feels that they should have two years of home economics training. 
A woman trained to help solve home problems and needs can gain the 
confidence of the people. 

Mr. Winthrop Lane Allen says, in "The Truth about the Civil War 
in West Virginia," that the people have everything done for them; they 
are not taking part in the work themselves. This criticism is just, but 
Mr. AUen neglects to give full credit to the workers who so wilHngly do 
for others. On the other hand, we must not stunt the social growth of 
the one we do for. Each person needs an opportunity to work creatively 
and it seems to me that the program of the State Extension Department 
will give that opportunity. When we teach the women of the mining 
towns to provide the winter's supply of food, to make her family's cloth- 
ing, to budget her husband's income, to nurse her children when sick, 
to meet the sanitary problems, she will have her work, her share of 
responsibihty. Then in part, perhaps small part, shall we solve the 
unrest in the mining village. 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN 117 

BASAL METABOLISM OF WOMEN AND UNDERWEIGHT 
CHILDREN^ 

KATHARINE BLUNT 
The University of Chicago 

The past few years have seen much increase in interest in the study of 
basal metabolism, that is, the observation of the calories produced by the 
body when lying perfectly quiet and without food. This basal metabo- 
lism is a measure of the minimum rate at which an individual may 
live while awake. The rate while asleep is really somewhat lower but 
because of the many and obvious difficulties of working with sleeping 
subjects, the custom is firmly established of considering the observation 
on waking subjects as basal. 

Interest in the subject has been stimulated partly by the publication of 
many hundreds of observations on normal subjects of all ages by Benedict 
and others, partly by the increasing realization of the diagnostic value of 
basal metabolism determination in thyroid disease, and partly by the 
development of the comparatively sunple portable apparatus by Bene- 
dict. This apparatus, costing only $250, and fairly easily used, has made 
the study of basal metaboUsm possible for home economics departments 
and has given us both a means for research and an opportunity for 
vitalizing our usual teaching of metaboKsm. 

The essential feature of the apparatus, fully described elsewhere by 
Benedict, is a closed volume of oxygen-rich air kept in circulation by a 
blower. The resting and fasting subject breathes into this through a 
mouthpiece, the nostrils being closed by a nose-cHp, and the carbon 
dioxide exhaled is removed by passing through soda lime. The diminu- 
tion of the volume of air in the apparatus is easily read on the scale 
and represents the oxygen consumed by the subject in the given time. 
The oxygen volume can be converted to calories by multiplying by the 
proper factor — 4.82 per Hter. The usual observation period is 10 
minutes, dupKcates of course always being taken. The total amount of 
time consumed by the subject with the half hour rest period and two 
10-minute observation periods is less than an hour, and the experiment 
involves not the slightest discomfort unless waiting for breakfast be so 
considered. 

' Presented at the Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Swampscott, June, 1921. 



118 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The Home Economics Department of the University of Chicago has 
been so fortimate as to have had one of these apparatus since November, 
1920. This paper summarizes some of the observations that have been 
made with it. 

A woman's laboratory gives, of course, especial opportunity for ob- 
servation on women. Heretofore, a good many single observations have 
been made on women; Benedict, notably, has reported on the basal 
metabolism of 103 women, and formulated his standards of metaboUsm 
for women therefrom. Until recently, however, almost no work has been 
published on the effect of menstruation on metabolism. Is the period- 
icity of the menstrual cycle in any way reflected in a periodic variation 
in basal metabolism? Marie Dye,* one of our fellows, has made series 
of observations on 14 women, most of them during 2, or in some cases 3, 
menstrual periods, with intermenstrual observations as well, and has 
found no indication at all of a periodic rhythm in metabohsm. She 
found considerable day-by-day variation, with unexpectedly large, and 
so far inexphcable, ups and downs, but no regularity and no more varia- 
tion during menstrual periods than at any other time. Her subjects 
were all women students or faculty members ranging in age from 2 1 to 44 
years, were all in fairlygood health, doing their laboratory work regularly. 
Four of the subjects were so fortunate as to be able to say that they felt 
absolutely no discomfort of any kind during menstruation; the others 
experienced more or less fatigue or languor. In other words, the group 
may fairly be taken as typical of normal women. There may be a peri- 
odic rhythm in other body measurements corresponding to the menstrual 
cycle; body temperature, for example, seems to give indication of such 
variation. But basal metabohsm, and pulse rate which we observed at 
the same time, do not show periodicity. 

We were surprised at first to find our marked day-by-day variation. 
We had been strongty impressed with the idea that an individual's 
basal metabolism, at least in health, was constant. If we made many 
observations on any one subject, however, we were sure to get consider- 
able range for that individual. In one case, for instance, when we made 
29 observations scattered over 6 months, the range was from 1080 to 
1315 calories per day, a difference of 22 per cent. In most cases our 
range was not nearly so great, but still it was surprising. We do not 
consider that it was due to faulty technique, for we constantly tested 
our apparatus, checked our results, and required close duplicates. Bene- 

' Blunt and Dye: Basal iletabolism of Xorraal Women, Jour. Biol. Chem., 1921, 47; 69. 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN 119 

diet, also, several years ago, commented on a similar range in some of his 
own observations. The point shows the necessity of taking at least 
two days' observations before reporting definitely on basal metabolism 
for clinical and other purposes. 

Another problem which we have investigated is that of the basal 
metabolism of some of the underweight women students at the Univer- 
sity. Benedict, in 1917, found greatly lowered metabohsm in a group 
of young men students who had liv^ed for several months on a very much 
lowered food intake, about two-thirds of their normal calories. We were 
interested to learn whether the young woman student, who was 11 per 
cent or more under the normal weight for her height but who was eating 
supposedly enough to satisfy her normal appetite, would show the same 
low metabohsm, that is, would be found to be living on a distinctly lower 
nutritional plane than normal. Another graduate student in the de- 
partment, Virginia Bauer,' undertook the observation of 20 such yoimg 
women and found them all to have basal metabohsm close to that pre- 
dicted for them. They did not therefore present the abnormality shown 
by Benedict's young men who had deliberately cut down their food. 
Their underweight, serious though it doubtless was for their general 
health and vigor and their power of resistance to disease, did not effect 
their metabohsm. 

Quite different were our results with underweight children.'' Here 
we have found abnormality and in the direction of increase. We have 
observed two groups of underweight children and most of each group 
had a basal metabohsm higher than is to be expected for their weight and 
age. 

Our first group consisted of 13 distinctly undernourished children and 
one fairly normal boy, all from the Child Health School held at the Uni- 
versity last summer under the auspices of the Home Economics Depart- 
ment with Lydia Roberts as director. Of course the chief problem with 
the children was to keep them lying perfectly quiet, first for the half 
hour rest period, and especially during the two 10 minute observations, 
a very long time for 9 to 12 year old children. Alta Nelson, who did 
the work, succeeded in this because of her own very friendly relation with 
the children, the many "tests" in the school, and the system of rewards 
instituted for successful accomplishment of the experiments, chief among 

• Bauer and Blunt: A Study of the Basal Metabolism and Food Consumption of Under- 
weight College Women. To be published in the JotniNAL. 

♦Blunt, Nelson, and Oleson: The Basal Metabolism of Underweight Children. Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 1921, 49: 247. 



120 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

which was membership in the "basal metabolism club" of the school — 
so called by the children. As a help during the observation periods a 
fellow student read stories aloud to the children. The observer her- 
self kept careful record of the slightest motion in her young subjects and 
coimted as a success only those determinations during which they were 
really quiet and in which her duplicates agreed closely. Some children 
she observed successfully early in the 10 weeks of the school and several 
times afterwards; one nervous little boy she succeeded with only after 
the rest periods in the school had trained him in lying quiet. 

For the standard to compare with our figures we used the series of 
curves published by Benedict and Talbot in their recent monograph, 
"Metabolism and Growth from Birth to Puberty. "^ These investiga- 
tors give charts with a dot for the basal metabolism at different weights 
or ages of every one of the many children observed, and then draw 
smoothed curves representing a fair average of these single dots. Every 
one of our 13 underweight Health School children showed basal metabo- 
lism distinctly above Benedict's curve, in many cases above his highest 
single dot, and the one normal boy was approximately on the curve. 
That is, these thin, nervous, "jumpy" children, with their tendency to 
undereat because of fatigue and poor appetite, really have a basal food 
need higher than the normal child. 

It wiU be of interest to give some of the figures for Elsie S., a little 
girl of 10 who, though not the most underweight of the group (only 13 
per cent), is the child showing the excess metabolism most markedly. 
Incidentally it should be stated that the physician who examined her found 
no thyroid disease. She produced heat at the rate of 1188 calories per 
24 hours, while Benedict's and Talbot's average child of the same weight 
produced 860 calories or 39 per cent less. Every kilo of her weight was 
thus living a rate more than one-third higher than that of the average 
child. 

Our second group of underweight children was from the University 
Elementary School. We are not yet ready to report on them in detail, 
but can say that in general the observations confirm those made in the 
Health School — that the basal metabolism of imderweight children tends 
to be abnormally high. 

This line of work on the metabolism of women and children, normal 
or otherwise, has thus great possibilities and it is one which we hope to 
continue. 

'Benedict and Talbot: Metabolism and Growth from Birth to Puberty. Carnegie Insti- 
tution of Washington, Publication No. 302, 1921. 



1922] ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS 121 

ADMINISTRATION PROBLEMS' 

AGNES GLEASON 
Manager Parkway Tea Room, Chicago 

Administration is the subject given me to discuss, and I have looked 
it up in the dictionary, to be sure that I knew its meaning. I find it 
comes from the Latin "administratio," meaning the "care of affairs" 
and that a synonym is "the conduct of a business." But, back of "ad- 
ministratio" is another word, its root, which gives the real sense of the 
first — "minister," the word for "serve." I like to keep inmind the deeper 
meaning of "administration," which is "servdce." 

Perhaps the most helpful way to discuss the management of a tea 
room is to imagine one's self answering the questions asked by one who 
is thinking of establishing such a business. College women frequently 
come to me as pioneer in the tea room business to ask how to establish 
a business of their own. They are well equipped with education in home 
economics which our colleges and technical institutes are so wisely giv- 
ing. Tea room management looks easy. People always tell them there 
is money in food. The following are some of the points I would have the 
aspirant consider. 

1. Do you like food, that is, the ordering, or the preparation of it to 
please the eye and nourish the body? If you do, that is a good founda- 
tion. 

2. Have you had any experience in preparing food? 

3. The question is usually asked: "How much capital is required, to 
begin on a moderate scale?" I answer: "There is no such thing as a 
moderate scale today." The word "moderate" will soon have to be 
eliminated from our dictionaries, for it has no equivalent. The amount 
of capital needed depends on your choice of location. Rents differ 
widely in different places. One-third of the amount you have at your 
disposal should be kept in bank. A rainy week, when receipts fall off", 
wiU spell much worry if there is no reserve fund. 

4. Location is important, especially in the beginning. Mr. Childs 
of the famous chain of restaurants says, in the November American 
Magazine, that location is the biggest factor in the success of a popular- 
priced restaurant, with physical equipment second and management 

' Abstract of a paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the .American Dietetic Associa- 
tion, Chicago, October, 1921. The Journal published an article by Miss Gleason on a 
similar subject, April, 1920. 



122 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

third. He is speaking, of course, from a standpoint somewhat different 
from ours. I should be inclined to put management first. 

5. An interior decorator will be helpful, especially to the beginner. 
I have in mind a resort tea room, conducted for the benefit of a college 
fund, which owed much of its popularity to a clever decorator, who 
transformed an ugly cottage into a chic little tea room. But remember, 
no matter how attractive the dining room is, your patrons come to you 
primarily for food, and their returning depends on how well you satisfy 
them in this respect. 

6. As to equipment, my advice would be, "buy cautiously." If you 
visit a store devoted to equipment of restaurants, you will be told 
that you must have this or that ; but wait and see for yourself. Buy 
only essentials, and these of the best. 

7. Perhaps one of the greatest assets in this business is an open mind 
and a willingness to learn. 

Having talked thus far, the yoimg woman who is anxious to start 
a tea room often says: "I believe I could do it, if only I could learn about 
the buying of food." My reply to this is that, while it is important to 
purchase properly, it is stiU more important to merchandise food suc- 
cessfully, after it is purchased. It is well always to buy the best, but 
the great art is to sell to the best advantage. 

The kitchen is, of course, the heart of the establishment, and success 
must emanate from that point. The ideal kitchen is sunny and well 
ventilated. In my establishment, I have to find a way to live up to the 
requirement of the ten-hour law, effective in all restaurants. I have a 
group of women who come on duty at five o'clock in the afternoon, re- 
placing three others whose time expires at that hour. These fresh 
workers go on with the dish-washing and later clean the kitchen and din- 
ing-room, which are thoroughly scrubbed every night, making them 
spotless for the workers to enter next morning. I find there is a de- 
sirable pscyhological effect if those who work in the kitchen can come 
into a clean, sweet-smeUing place in the morning. I prefer women, 
for waiting on table, as it promotes the home atmosphere, but I have had 
both men and women for superintending the work, and have been equally 
satisfied with both. At present, I have a man for head waiter. 

We have said that the kitchen is the heart of the place, but its efficiency 
w^uld be much impaired without a well ordered dining room where 
food is appetizingly served. A maxim often repeated in our tea room is 
"Food well-cooked and intelligently placed before the guest is sold." 



1922] .'UJMXNISTEATIVE PROBLEMS 123 

By intelligent service I mean service by women quick in action, neat in 
appearance, and quiet in deportment. 

Much more thought is now being given, and rightly, to the welfare 
of the helpers, when they are off duty. We have a rest room in which 
they can lie down and rest or read, when they have time. It is well 
to carry liability insurance for the staff of workers, and this is usually 
done by the group insurance plan, which we employ in our tea room. 
However, that protection should not relax your vigilance on behalf of 
the welfare of your assistants for whom you are responsible. 

Start the day right. It is always well to be on hand before the helpers 
arrive in the morning, or to be represented there by some reliable person 
whom you have trained, in your methods. I believe in keeping my 
assistants and I never wait for them to ask for an increase in salary. 

There are many difficulties in the business of serving food. I have 
recently heard of a hotel proprietor in a large summer resort who said 
that she had not had a complaint during the entire season. I could only 
conclude that she had some tactful assistants who kept these complaints 
from her knowledge. Perfection is our goal, but we can hardly expect 
to attain it on earth. In my tea room we do have complaints, and they 
are always welcomed. I say to the helpers: "Do not tell me the com- 
pliments you hear about the service here. They will take care of them- 
selves. I want the complaints." All complaints are carefully con- 
sidered, and I have foimd the method of calling together all who might 
be concerned and presenting the complaint to them, as I have received 
it, more effective than taking the matter up with the indi\adual. 

Here are a few "don'ts" for the managers of tea rooms. 

1. Don't fail to look into the ice-box in making up your daily menu. 
"Left-overs" have a direct relation to "turnover." 

2. Don't be too penurious with your cook. Food must be well cooked 
in order to sell well, and to cook it well one must use generous amounts of 
butter and cream, and other expensive ingredients that go to make a per- 
fect dish. Yet, while we advocate generosity, waste cannot be tolerated. 
You have not only a right, but a responsibility, to know all that is going 
on in your business. Here, genius in administration is almost a neces- 
sity, but this knowledge thoroughly acquired, much trouble and friction 
are avoided. Remember, it is your right to investigate every detail of 
your business, in spite of temperamental spirits in the kitchen. In' 
fact, it is the only way in which you can ffnd the real value of the indi- 
vidual employe. 



124 THE jOLTOCAL OF HOiiE ECOXOMics [March 

3. Don't fail to keep in mind the requirements of your guests. In 
my tea room, the popular thing is a table d'hote ser\-ice, offering a 
three-course limcheon for sixty cents and dinner for one dollar. But 
some people want a la carte ser\ice — a chop, or steak, a salad, and 
dessert. I make these work together and merchandise some of the 
same articles in each branch of the ser\-ice. 

4. Don't forget to have frequent conferences with your workers. The 
great pleasure in work comes from doing it a httle better than the aver- 
age, and the best serxice we can render our assistants is to exact the best 
from them and reward accordingly. Remember that you, the head of 
an enterprise, create the atmosphere, and must take the consequences. 
It is reflected in your assistants. It radiates to your patrons and is 
just as sincere, serene, tense, generous, penurious, particular, unpro\a- 
dent, careful, careless, slovenly, or capable, as is your thinking regarding 
your enterprise. 

5. Don't forget that the price of success in this business is hard work, 
\-igilance in detecting and banishing waste, learning to bear heaxy re- 
sponsibilities without breaking under the strain, and willingness to forego 
most social pleasures in the beginning until your business is established 
and your bank accoimt warrants a little letting up. Your work will be 
constantly on your mind, and the day is long. You cannot take time to 
form friendships outside your business. But all this does not mean that 
you must become a one-sided person. Keep the play spirit alive, and if 
you cannot take time to golf, at least you can indulge in a brisk walk, 
or \-isit an art gallerj-, to refresh your soul. It is perspective we need, 
and when we are too near a situation, we find our \-iew is foreshortened. 

6. Don't be too intent on money making to let slip opportunities to 
set others in the way of progress. Have your helpers an ambition to do 
greater things? Help them on. No one truly prospers by keeping 
others back. Lend them a hand whose fortunes are cast in vriih yours. 

7. Don't wony- too much over trifles. Keep a light heart. 

To summarize the fundamentals of administrative success, then, let 
us say it consists of purposeful attitude towards your work, a clear con- 
ception of whom you \s-ish to serve and how, an understanding of the 
requirements of the public and what the service implies, and the ability 
to merchandise, which includes a great deal, from the selling of your own 
personality to the selection of the smallest integral part of your enter- 
prise and transmuting it into the check at the cashier's desk. 



1922] 



BUDGET PROJECT IX COLLEGES FOR WOMEN 



125 



A BUDGET PROJECT IX THREE STATE COLLEGES FOR 
WO]MEN 

S. DEBORAH HAINES 
University of Chicago. Absent on leave from Oklahoma College for Women 

Plan and aim. The schools cooperating in this project were the Wom- 
en's College of the University of Delaware, Connecticut College for 
Women, and Oklahoma College for Women. Each student in certain 
home economics classes kept itemized accounts' of all personal expendi- 
ttires for one semester or one school year according to the length of the 
course. Detailed siunmaries from the other two institutions were sent 
to the writer at Oklahoma College for Women at the close of the semesters 
in the school year 1920-1921. 

The purpose of the project was to make an intensive study of the 
personal expenses of a representative group within each college and to 
make a comparative study of the expenditures of the three groups. 
Averages of actual expenditures per student 



COLLEGE 


i 


11 

c c 

z 


i 

> 


i 

< 

P 


2 
<: 

z 
< 


I 


< 
1 




e 


1 

> 

2 


2 

s 

a 


J 


Women's College 
of the Univer- 
sity of Dela- 
ware. 


1 

2 


13 
No 


162.70 
data 


17.79 


75.95 


4.65 


20.54 


21.47 


15.86 


1.10 


15.43 


335.15 


Connecticut Col- 
lege for Wom- 
en. 


1 
2 


7 
8 


268.65 
212.31 


27.56 
34.64 


94.46 
90.37 


10.74 
1.43 


9.52 
27.&4t 


185.15 
130.09 


27.33 
12.98 


9.51 
6.89 




633.80 
514.65 


Oklahoma Col- 
lege for Wom- 
en. 


1 

2 


46 
SO 


68.48t 
69.47§ 


18.72 
14.14 


81.98 
48.20 


4.76 
3.62 


13.28 
10.93 


28.44 
16.38 


17.99 
3.96 


5.40 
2.29 




238.56 
168.98 



* In teaching budget work, it is advisable to omit a "miscellaneous" column if possible. 

t One student in this group included S135 .00 of graduation clothes as "luxury." Perhaps 
it is correctly placed. It partly accounts for this high average. 

% Sixteen students paid no "living expenses" because of residing in their own homes or 
because of working in the dormitorj-. This makes the average low. 

§ Twelve students paid no "living expenses" for same reason as above. 

' The students used the "Personal .Account Book," published by the Woman's Press, 600 
Lexington Avenue, New York City. 



126 



THE J0X7RNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 
Comparison of mean and extreme expenditures 



[March 





FIRST SEMESTER 


SECOND SEMESTER 




Highest 


Lowest 


Mean 


Highest 


Lowest 


Mean 


Connecticut College for Women. . 
Women's College of the University 


1000.87 

692.80 
870.41 


488.67 

229.47 
96.61 


601.40 

309.83 
228.40 


747.70 

No data 
333.60 


377.90 

25.55 


452.00 


Oklahoma College for Women. . . . 


158.28 



Comparison of figures presented. Why are first semester expenses 
uniformly more than second semester? Because a new adjustment in 
living always demands different equipment, such as clothes, books, 
room furnishings; and also, because trips at Thanksgiving and Christ- 
mas require railroad fare and presents. In the second semester, trips 
are not so frequent, parents do not furnish money quite so freely, and 
the students have learned in school and by experience to "stretch the 
dollars." 

WTiy do expenses per student vary so widely according to the insti- 
tution? It is significant that the cost of living and tuition expenses in 
the three institutions vary in the same proportion as do the general 
totals. Board and room per semester at the three institutions are as 
foUows: Women's College, Delaware, $157.50; Connecticut College, 
$250.00; Oklahoma College for Women, $101.25. 

Connecticut college also charges $250.00 per year tuition, and $80.00 
to $150.00 additional if the student is taking music. Students' expenses 
at Oklahoma College for Women are low, because there is no tuition, 
because board and room are only $22.50 per month, and because dress 
regulation requires plain tailored clothes for school wear. These regu- 
lations and the fact that many students make some of their garments in 
clothing classes, explain the low average of $48.20 per student for cloth- 
ing during the second semester. On the whole, the difference in cost 
per school year can be explained largely through cost of tuition, board, 
and room. The students, as groups, are careful spenders. 

WTiat is the significance of the fact that the mean= is each time lower 
than the average for the same school in the same semester? It shows that 
a few extravagant students in each college have made the classes' aver- 
age high. When sufficient numbers are available, the mean is consid- 

^The mean is found by arranging total expenditures in this case, according to the size 
and finding the total that is equidistant from both extremes. Thus, if 1, 2, 7, 9 15 are the 
totals, 7 is the mean. 



1922] BUDGET PROJECT IX COLLEGES FOR WOMEN 127 

ered more accurate than the average, because two or three extraordi- 
nary cases should not be allowed to influence, so markedly, a group of 
fifty that are very similar. The total average cost per year at Okla- 
homa College for Women is $407.54; the mean cost per year is $376.68. 
Those who have data from other colleges will be interested in making 
further comparisons. 

Results from budget studies. The first result from keeping personal 
accounts is an opportunity for the student to study her expenditures. 
She is usually surprised at the distributions. The second result is that 
she learns to make a personal budget, using past expenditures as a basis, 
and to measure her expenditure by a standard. A standard budget for 
one month was worked out at Oklahoma College for Women by one 
class, with the aid of the teacher and the college president, as follows: 
Board and room, $22.50; Books and Lyceum, $4.00; Stamps and sta- 
tionery, $2.00; Laundry, $5.00; Luxuries, $4.00; Benevolence, $2.00; 
Carfare, $1.00 — Total, $40.50. Expenses for recreation were under- 
stood to come under "luxuries," since there is much recreation available 
that does not cost money. Clothing, gifts, railroad fare, and health 
are items varying so widely with different seasons and different indi- 
viduals that they were not included in this standard. 

The budget studies stimulated the classes to ask important questions 
and to try to answer them. They answered the question, "What does 
it cost a student to attend college for one year?" Other questions which 
arose were as follows: "What does it cost a student to fail in one study 
or one fourth of her regular work?" "What does such a failure cost the 
state maintaining the institution?" "Are students' 'good times' in 
proportion to the amount spent for luxuries?" "What is a luxury? 
Is a ham sandwich a luxury? Is a new dress? Are magazines?" 
"What gifts have been much appreciated that cost very little? What 
gifts have been little appreciated that cost much labor, or money, or 
both?" 

The family budget was a natural outgrowth of the personal budget. 
While studying this, the question of owning an automobile arose. Some 
of the class believed a man with $2000 income who did not have an 
automobile lacked proper respect for his family's comfort. A student 
with this opinion made a study of automobile costs for her final paper. 
She used figures given to her by the owners of one expensive and nine 
inexpensive cars. She found that, if depreciation in value, interest on 
money invested, repairs and up-keep, insurance, gasoline and oil, taxes 
and hcense were included, it cost about as much to own a cheap or me- 



128 THE joiiRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

dium priced car as it did to keep this family of five. She concluded that 
this man could not own a car and add to his savings account. 

Suggestions. Individual accounts prove a natural approach to an 
interesting and profitable study of the personal family budget. Home 
economics classes in general, and particularly major students in home 
economics, would do well to keep personal accounts and to have a work- 
ing budget. Why talk imaginary budgets to students, when you can 
make real ones? Why plan a $500 wardrobe per year, when your stu- 
dents have less than $150 per year to spend for clothing? Let us study 
and teach home economics. 



THE RUR.\L SCHOOL LUNCH TODAY 

LOTTIE MILAM 

Montana Stale College, Bozeman 

Many years ago the supplementary hot dish for the rural school 
lunch was an experimental novelty. Today it belongs to the "tested- 
and-tried" class. Cold noon meals, carelessly selected, five days a week 
throughout the months from September to April, frequently result in 
poor digestion, and therefore, poor health. 

How does the health of the rural child compare with that of the city child? 
Livestigations made among rural children show that in the rural com- 
munities the number of undernourished children w^ith defective bodies is 
more than double that in the city. 

What is this hot school lunch? According to a recent survey practically 
every state in the union has introduced it to some degree. The hot 
lunch in most rural schools has been that portion of the noon lunch which 
is prepared at school. It adds to, and does not attempt to be a sub- 
stitute for, the lunch brought from home. In many cases it is simply 
one hot dish, frequently made with a milk foundation. 

How do the schools and communities undertake or introduce this work? 
The weighing and measuring of the children of a school group frequently 
draws attention to the need of adequate school limches. Requests then 
come from parents, teachers, and school boards to those who can advise 
them about introducing the hot lunch. General interest may be aroused 



1922] THE RURAL SCHOOL LtlNCH TODAY 129 

by a speaker, experienced in this work, using posters, slides, or flyers. 
Local newspapers advertise the meeting and put the pertinent facts be- 
fore the public. Some colleges offer correspondence courses on school 
lunch work. Parent-teachers' associations and mothers' clubs have 
taken the initiative in placing this plan before the community in many 
states. 

What means are used to obtain the supplies and equipment? In some 
communities, these are donated by the families, the parent-teachers' 
associations, or the canning clubs; in other communities the schools 
have purchased suppHes and equipment with money appropriated by 
the school board, or with special funds raised by assessing each child 
or giving school entertainments. 

Where can food facts be taught in the rural school? Since there is not 
time in the crowded schedule to introduce a new subject, much sub- 
ject matter on food and its relation to health can be introduced into 
the regular subjects. For instance: arithmetic — compute amounts 
of food needed and cost; language and writing — composition on food 
products and countries producing them; history — relation of food 
to comfort, happiness, and progress of the people of the world; geog- 
raphy — source and transportation of food product used in today's hot 
dish; physiology — groups of food necessary for the body; drawing and 
manual training — posters, illustrating slogans or facts or announcing the 
hot dish served ; agriculture — methods of growing various food products 
and types of soil required; sanitation and hygiene — transmission of 
disease through food, water, insects, and contact. 

What are some of the changes due to the hot school lunch? The hot 
school lunch has brought about greater interest in school work, improve- 
ment in the general physical condition of pupils, less need of discipline, 
increased interest in home work, improved attendance especially on 
cold days, less hurried eating, habits of cleanliness and neatness, good 
table manners, and proper eating habits. It has furnished an oppor- 
tunity for the teacher to inculcate an appreciation of food and to over- 
come idiosyncrasies in taste, thus introducing variety into the home 
diet. Smaller quantities of cold limch are discarded because better 
planned lunches are brought from home. 

Some facts collected in March and April, 1921, concerning the present 
status of the hot lunch work in the rural schools of the United States are 
as follows: 

Supervision is provided in the following ways: (a) by separate special- 
ists who direct the work; (b) by the Department of Education, alone or 



130 



THE JOUBNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 
Survey of Schools 



[March 









°\ 


< 


H 


Arkansas. . . . 


c 


California . . . 


c 


Colorado 


c 


Delaware . . . 




Florida 


c 


Georgia 


c 


Illinois 


a 


Indiana 


c 


Iowa 


c 


Kansas 


a 


Maryland . . . 


c 


Massachu- 




setts 


a, c 


Michigan . . . 


c 


Minnesota . . 


d 


Mississippi . . 


c 


Missouri .... 


c 


Montana 





13 

u 
g 

i 


11 


10-15 per 




cent 




1 county 33 J 




per cent 




12 schools 




2 per cent 




575 schools 


98t 


25 per cent 


48 


331 per cent 


74 


consoli- 




dated, 11 




per cent 




one room 




167 schools 


Few 


AU consoli- 


50 per 


dated, 50 


cent 


per cent of 




1 room 






Few 


All consoli- 




dated, 50 




per cent of 




1 room 





Nebraska 



Nevada 



New Jersey 
New Mexico 



New York 



Ohio 

Oklahoma 
Oregon 
Pennsylvania 



Rhode Island 
South Dakota 

Tennessee 

Virginia 
Washington 
West Virginia 



Wisconsin 



a, b 



ii per cent 
under one 
director; 
35 schools 
under 
another 

Few towns 

25 per cent 
High per 
cent 



50 per cent 



2 per cent 


30 per cent 


20 per cent 


Most 




[counties 


Many 


Few 


2 counties 


26 



In 3 large 

towns 



50 
Few 

10 fuU 

time, 

30 in all 
Many 

Few 



per cent 
percent 10 per cent 



* The letters in this column refer to type of supervision outlined above, 
t Fifty Red Cross and 48 T. B. nurses; 25 counties have Red Cross nurses for special 
schools. 



1922] IRON ANALYSIS OF KALE AND TtTRNIP GREENS 131 

in cooperation with the Department of PubHc Health; (c) by extension 
service, except in states having speciaHsts who devote their entire time to 
this work; (d) by extension service in cooperation with the Department 
of Education or with the Vocational Home Economics Department. 

Eight states have hot lunch clubs, 17 states use graphic posters, and 
21 states issue bulletins or other material through the Extension Depart- 
ment, the Department of Education, or the Department of Public 
Health. 

Available material. The majority of the states send out material from 
a central office from which the work is directed. The usual points 
covered in this material include suggestions for suitable hot lunch foods, 
equipment, recipes, food needs of the body, foods supplying these needs, 
diet for children, ways and means, duties of working committees, sugges- 
tions for the box lunch. There are some states as Massachusetts, 
Illinois, Nebraska,! Pennsylvania, Ohio,- New Jersey, and New York 
whose material covers additional points. No attempt has been made to 
list the material obtainable from other sources. 

' Playlet, "How Joe's Lunch Disappeared." 

• "Ohio's Own School Lunch Picture Story," is a slide lecture with 32 slides. 
A very good list of references is contained in Circular No. 9 Agricultural Extension Service, 
Ohio State University, Columbus. 



IRON ANALYSIS OF KALE AND TURNIP GREENS 

MARIETTA EICHELBERGER AND MAUDE ASBURY 
University of Kentucky 

The class of vegetables known as "greens " is one of our most important 
sources of iron. As far as we have been able to ascertain, no iron analy- 
ses of kale and turnip greens have been published. Because of the 
abundance and popular use of these greens throughout the Southern 
states, it seemed desirable to make these analyses. 

In as much as the iron content of spinach varies,' it was thought best 
to run analyses of this vegetable concurrently with the other analyses, 
using it in a way as a check. 

Method of determination of iron. Of the various ways of determining iron, the method 
used by Blunt and Otis,' that is, the colorimetric method with potassium thiocyannate, was 
chosen. The standard of known iron content was prepared by dissolving 0.10 gram of iron 

' Blunt and Otis, Journal of Home Economics, 9 (1917) p. 213. 



132 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



wire (99.9 per cent pure) in 5 cc. each of concentrated hydrochloric and nitric acids, and 
making up to two liters. One cc. of the resulting solution contained 0.05 mg. of iron, or 
0.00005 gram. The standards were then prepared with varying amounts of the ferric thiocy- 
annate, being careful at all times to observe the same precautions as were observed by Blunt 
and Otis. 

In preparing the greens for comparison with the standards, the organic matter was de- 
stroyed by oxidation. About 10 grams of the vegetable were weighed into aKjeldahlflask 
and the oxidation process carried out. It was found however that upon complete oxidation 
it was necessary to filter the resulting solution before the addition of the potassium thiocy- 
annate, otherwise a white precipitate, which was formed during the process of oxidation 
but which gave no test for iron, obscured some of the color and the standards matched were 
about half as intense as they were after filtering. After filtering, the solution was made up 
to volume in the normal way and the determinarions made. 

Results. The results of the experiments are given in the following tables: 



TABLE 1 
Turnip greens — raw 



AMOOTJT OF 
GR££NS 


IRON IN 
STANDARD 
MATCHED 


PER CENT or IRON 

IN RAW 

TOTtNlP GREENS 


grams 


mgm. 




8.7339' 


0.02375 


0.0027 


10.002 


0.02875 


0.00287 


10.6894 


0.02875 


0.00268 


10.7715 


0.0275 


0.00255 


10.8091 


0.02875 


0.00265 




0.00269 









TABLE 2 
Kale — raw 



AMOUNT OF 

GREENS 


IRON IN 
STANDARD 
MATCHED 


grams 


mgm. 


9.438 


0.0375 


10.268 


0.0325 


10.005 


0.035 


9.824 


0.05 


10.445 


0.02 


9.337 


0.01 



Average . 



0.0039 

0.00316 

0.00359 

0.00509 

0.00191 

0.00107 



0.00312 



TABLE 3 
Spinach — raw 



AMOUNT OF 

GREENS 


IRON IN 
STANDARD 
MATCHED 


PEE CENT OF IRON 
IN RAW SPINACH 


grams 

9.703 
10.790 
10.575 

9.839 
11.734 


mgm. 
0.03 
0.0263 
0.0275 
0.02875 
0.02 


0.00309 

0.00243 
0.0026 
0.00291 
0.00255 


Average 


0.002716 



TABLE 4 
Comparison 



VEGETABLE 



Kale 

Turnip greens 
Spinach 



PER CENT OF IRON 



0.00312 
0.00269 
0.002716 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE PRICE OF PROGRESS 

CAROLINE B. SHERMAN 
Assistant in Market Information, United States Department of Agriculture 

What constitutes marketing? Everywhere we hear and read criticisms 
of our present marketing situation but seldom do we hear any clearly 
stated analysis as to just what constitutes marketing. We hear frequent 
discussions regarding the difference between the price paid to the fanner 
for produce and the amount paid by the consumer, but we hear little 
regarding what actually takes place between the time the products leave 
the farm and the time they are bought by the housekeeper for consump- 
tion. Improvement in methods is vitally necessary but before much 
improvement can take place we must have a clear knowledge of the 
primary necessities of marketing. 

In producing for our present commercialized markets, farmers as well 
as nations have found that they can get best results by speciaHzing on 
certain crops or kinds of farming according to aptitudes, farming con- 
ditions, climate, and soil. This, together with the tendency of popula- 
tion to congregate in large cities, has operated to drive production 
ever farther from the millions to be fed and clothed. We have grown 
permanently away from the days when most housekeepers bought direct 
from their own farmer-market-men. We are no longer content to use 
only those foods that are locally in season, and we must be wilhng to 
take fair-minded stock of the consequences. 

The farmer, as a rule, produces quantities ranging from the box to 
the wagon load, but the smallest unit that can be shipped long distances 
most profitably is the carload. Some one, therefore, must assemble 
the small farm lots and adjust the quantities to the demands of the 
processes of marketing, and this is usually done by the country shipper, 
carlot buyer, packing house, or other local factor. A carload of apples 
thus collected looks large to the farmer, but the warehouseman requires 
many carloads of apples for successful operation. During the winter, 
however, the demands from the trade reach him in the terms of relatively 

133 



134 THE joiTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

small quantities — fifty boxes, perhaps, at a time. These the wholesaler 
deals with, selling them to the retailer in even smaller quantities, for, as 
householders cannot and will not go long distances to buy at concentra- 
tion points, many of the retail stores must be located in business or 
residence neighborhoods where rents are high and space at a premium. 
Here the retailer finally sells the apples by the half-dozen or the half- 
peck. Thus the work of the farmer in collecting his apples, of the coun- 
try buyer or packing house in forming carlots, of the storage man in 
concentrating trainloads, which was first broken into by the wholesaler 
in deahng in dozens of boxes, is finally undone by the retailer in order to 
fiU the specific demands of his customers. 

With the increasing use of standards and brands, purchasers are com- 
ing to demand with increasing frequency specific grades of goods. The 
careful grading of farm products has everything to recommend it, but 
whether accomplished by the fanner individually, by producers' as- 
sociations at centralized country points as at fruit packing houses, by the 
country buyer, or by dealers either wholesale or retail, it is a ser\'ice 
exacting time and painstaking care if properly done and it is a service 
that must be paid for. Often regrading must be done several times 
during the process of marketing as units are made larger or smaller to 
fit the demands of the trade. 

Not only are staple goods now usually graded before sale but fruits 
and vegetables are rapidly falling into line. The citrous fruits and ap- 
ples were the first to be graded uniformly by strict standards, but now 
potatoes, onions, cantaloupes, tomatoes and many other perishables are 
so sold on the markets. Purchasers have learned the desirability of 
securing uniform size and quality even by the payment of a higher 
price and are becoming increasingly impatient with iU assorted 
commodities. 

Practically all farm products require packaging in one form or another 
in the process of marketing. Apples must be placed in barrels or boxes, 
lettuce in hampers or baskets, milk in cans and bottles, butter in tubs 
and cartons, cotton in bales and bagging. Many of them require re- 
packaging in the course of marketing as in the case of milk. Packaging 
is necessary for protection to product, for economical carriage and storage, 
and for convenience all along the line including always the consumer. 
How expensive these containers may become, in addition to the labor of 
packing, was forcefully demonstrated during the war. 

Processing is almost as prevalent as packaging. The farmer sells 
cattle, grain, hides, and cotton; the consumer buys meat, bread, shoes, 



1922] THE PRICE OF PROGRESS 135 

and clothing. Between the time the products leave the farm and the 
time they reach the ultimate consumer, cattle must be converted to 
steaks, grain must be reduced to flour and made into bread, hides must be 
transformed into leather and then into shoes, and cotton must be made 
into cloth and then into garments. In each case the intermediate 
steps of the process are necessarily many. Processing has almost 
entirely left the farms and has been withdrawn from city dweUings. 
The results in large scale operations have made great average savings 
possible but, if both farmer and consumer leave the task to others, 
the others must have fair compensation. 

The actual making of sales in our complicated marketing systems is 
a function often requiring peculiar qualifications, experience, knowledge, 
or skill. To sell advantageously on large markets, a salesman must have 
one kind of knowledge and skill; to sell to individual customers in retail 
trade requires entirely different qualifications. The first demands ex- 
tensive information regarding suppHes, actual and potential, quantities, 
quahties, conditions, trends, and competition; the second demands a 
knowledge of human nature in all its variations and contradictions. As 
salesmanship becomes more highly specialized it obviously becomes more 
high priced. 

Recent discussions of transportation rates make emphasis on the cost 
of carriage unnecessary, but it is not generally known that studies show 
local hauling to be also relatively expensive. Good roads and good 
equipment may lessen this apparent cost but they, too, are expensive 
in initial investment and in upkeep and may be considered indirect 
costs of transportation. 

Market preferences, much more potent than most consumers realize, 
result in cross freights and unnecessary work and cost. In some cities 
only dark-colored cranberries sell well, while in other cities lighter ones 
are in sole demand. In some cities dealers can handle only dark eggs 
advantageously; in others the white egg is the favorite. Shippers of 
large quantities often find it necessary to ship past their nearer markets 
in order to reach the markets where their particular variety is especially 
wanted. 

Storing and warehousing constitute a service of much economic im- 
portance. With few exceptions all of our crops are seasonal in production 
but most of them are in demand by consumers the year roimd. Few 
farmers have more than the most limited storage facihties and much 
farm storage is inadequate in efficiency, while city conditions render it 
increasingly difficult for families to buy supplies very far in advance of 



136 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

use. Some one, therefore, must store on a large scale to adjust this 
essential time difference between production and demand. Thus stor- 
age becomes both a consumer and a provider. Our products are kept, 
protected, accounted for, and financed during this intervening time 
between harvest and harvest. Some products require heated storage, 
others normal warehousing, and many of them require cold storage or 
even freezing temperatures. It is seldom that much variation is allow- 
able. Heating, refrigeration, and ventilation are also expensive factors 
in transportation. 

The iinancing of marketing and storing operations is an essential and 
hazardous factor. Financing often begins while the crop is still growing 
when the farmer borrows from his local bank to cover the expenses of 
harvesting. It is usually necessary through ever}- subsequent step of 
marketing until the products are finally in the hands of the consumers. 
Large terminal companies, commission merchants, city banks, all assist 
in financing market transactions. A single grain company may advance 
as much as $1,000,000 to country buyers during the height of the crop 
movement, and the interest charge is necessarily heavy. Insurance and 
hedging are used to lessen risk from fire, deterioration, and change in 
price. 

All of these operations do not take place in the marketing of every 
product, and sometimes they can be and are performed by the farmer or 
his association, or by the consumer, but as our modern life is now or- 
ganized, they form the typical process through which our farm products 
pass from the farmer to the consiuner. To make permanent improve- 
ment in methods possible it is necessary that we understand all of these 
functions clearly in all of their phases, and understand their inter-relation 
as well. Then and then only can we hope to make material progress in 
the popular program of taking the mystery out of marketing. 



1922] REPORT OF A TEST OF FLOOR OILS 137 

REPORT OF A TEST OF FLOOR OILS 

MELISSA FARRELL SNYDER 
Office of Home Economics, United Slates Department of Agriculture 

The following practical home test of floor oils was made under the 
direction of the Ofiice of Home Economics, United States Department 
of Agriculture. The experiment was started early in January, 1921 , and 
continued until June 30, 1921. 

EXPERIMENTAL 

Three different kinds or types of mixtures were tested. The first consisted of one part of 
motor or engine oil to four parts of kerosene; the second was made up of one part of boiled 
linseed oil to three parts of turpentine; the third was a widely advertised commercial floor oil. 

The separate mops used for each kind of oil were thoroughly saturated before the floors 
were first gone over and were moistened about once a month after that. The floors were 
mopped on the average of once a week. During the course of the experiment the mops 
were kept in the paper containers in which they were purchased and at no time was there 
indication of spontaneous combustion. 

Four rooms — a living room, a dining room, and two bedrooms — and a hall, all on the third 
floor of an apartment house, were devoted to the experiment. This apartment house is 
located on the comer of two streets where there is much traffic, and soft coal is burned in its 
heating plant. Considerable dust and dirt flies in through the windows and seeps through 
the window casings, thus discoloring the floors as well as affecting the woodwork, hangings, 
and furniture. 

The floors, of 2J inch pine, were old and very dark from many coatings of shellac and 
varnish. Before the experiment was started, however, the floors were scrubbed with a strong 
solution of washing soda and water until they were of a light shade. 

In the bedrooms and the hall the entire floor surface was oiled throughout the experiment. 
On the bedroom floors the motor oil and kerosene was used; in the hall, the commercial oil. 
For the first five months the living and dining rooms were partially covered with 9 x 12 rugs 
and a few small ones, leaving only the margins of the floor exposed for treatment, but during 
the last month all rugs were removed and stored and the entire floor space of these two rooms 
also was oUed. The turpentine and linseed oil mixture was used on these floors. 

Written notes on the condition of the floors were kept from the beginning of the experi- 
ment until the end. 

It was found that the bedroom floors, where the motor oil and kerosene had been used, were 
considerably darkened during the experiment. This effect may be partly due to the fact 
that this oil was slightly gummy and coal dust and dirt stuck to it. Also this particular oil 
left a duU finish, but whether or not this effect was due to imperfect removal of varnish, before 
the oil was applied, can not be positively stated. 

The haU floor, on which the commercial oil was used, was also darker than the others but 
after oiling it had a gloss which would last for some time, notwithstanding the fact that this 
hall received more wear and tear than any one of the rooms. 

The living and dining room floors, on which the linseed oil mixture was used, always 
retained their light, even color and gloss, and when the rugs were removed there were no 
"high water marks" around the edges to show where the rugs had been. In fact, the oil 
seemed to have a cleansing action and in no way discolored the portions treated with it. 
Such discoloration would have been readily noticed when the rugs were removed. 



138 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



A floor oil consisting of one part boiled linseed oil to three parts tur- 
pentine had a cleansing effect upon the floors to which it was applied and 
did not injure the gloss nor darken the floor on which it was used. 

The particular commercial oil used in this experiment darkened the 
floor on which it was used but did not injure the gloss. 

The mixture of motor oil and kerosene decidedly darkened the floors 
on which it was applied, and tended to dull the finish of the wood. 



DATA ON WATER HEATING IN THE HOME 



Kansas State Agricultural College, in a bulletin on "Water Heating in 
the Home," gives results of extensive tests. 

The object of this investigation was to determine the following factors 
in the use of coal, kerosene, gasoline, gas, and electric water heaters : 

1. The cost of operations, both for supplying hot water continuously 
and for furnishing hot water for a single definite purpose. 

2. The care necessary to operate the heater. 

3. The quantity of water which will be given a definite rise in tempera- 
ture per hour. 

4. The practical efficiency of the combined heater and its attached 
tank. 

For a family of three for general domestic purposes, bath and laundry, 
where the range boilers are well insulated, the following will apply: 



Soft coal (S8.00 per ton) 

Kerosene (one burner, 15 cents per gallon) 

Gasoline (20 cents per gallon) 

Gas (automatic-tjTJe heater, SI. 25 per 1,000 cu. ft.) 

Electric (circulation, immersion, or direct-contact type, 
750-watt, at 2 cents per kw. hour) 



300 lbs. 

ISf gal. 

19 gal. 

2 , 700 cu. ft. 



COST PER MONTH 



SI. 20 
2.36 
3.80 
3.38* 

7.50 



* A note by S. S. Wyer states that, since natural gas has twice the heating energy of manu- 
factured gas, one-half the volume would have done the same work. If the gas cost had been 
50 cents per "M", the monthly fuel cost would have been S0.67. 



1922] THE FARM WOMAN AND HER SEWTING 139 

The heaters tested showed efficiencies (per cent of heat in fuel that was 
accounted for in heating water) as follows: coal, 18 per cent; kerosene, 
37 per cent; gasoline, 40 per cent; manufactured gas, 60-67 per cent; 
electric, 81-97 per cent. 

Tests of the pilot on automatic gas water heaters showed consumptions 
of from 34 to 127 cubic feet per day. 

The advantage gained by covering range boiler tanks is very appre- 
ciable. A covering of asbestos cement to a thickness of about three- 
fourths of an inch reduces the losses 26 per cent. A range boiler tank 
cover, consisting of an inner lining of asbestos paper, a filling of f-inch 
hair felt, and an outer cover of canvas, reduces the losses 60.7 per cent. 
A covering consisting of asbestos paper and |-inch hair felt, held to 
the top and sides of the tank by a wrapping of white muslin, reduces the 
losses 71 per cent. 

COMPUTING HEATING VALUES 

According to a summary in The Glass Induslry (vol. 2, 1921), the following 
average figures should be used in computing heating values. 

Producer gas 150 B. T. U. per cu. ft. 

Coal gas 600 B. T. U. per cu. ft. 

Coke oven gas 550 B. T. U. per cu. ft. 

Natural gas 1,100 B. T. U. per cu. ft. 



THE FAR]\I WOMAN AND HER SEWING 

There seems to be some tendency to urge that the farm woman should do more of her 
sewing, and save her money. Since she already has long hours, should she not ask herself 
these questions: 

Is the sewing a rest or a burden? To some the sewing might be a pleasure; to others, a 
care. 

What can best be bought ready-made? E.xperiments have shown that certain things 
cost practically no more ready-made than the cost of the material. Other things cost no 
more, but they do not wear so well. Is it possibly not desirable to buy what will wear; for 
instance, if the garment is to be used by a rapidly growing child, and there is no one to whom 
it can be passed down? Other things, particularly when they have any hand work, are 
very much more expensive when bought ready-made. 

Is choosing wisely from the mail-order catalogue one of the things that the farm woman 
should learn? Making a demand for good material rather than fancy trimming wiU count. 

Is the question of more or less sewing one to be decided individually? One woman did her 
ovra sewing, and spent the money saved in travel with her husband. Another hired her 
sewing done, and saved the time to walk in the air with her children. Whenever there is a 
choice, should not these and other considerations count? 



140 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



Does the garment made at home always cost less? Is it not something like the ten cent 
store? Most things cost less there, but occasionally one pays more. Experience and good 
judgment are needed to decide. 

CEDAR CHESTS 

Chests made of red cedar heartwood are effective, if in good condition and thoroughly 
tight, in protecting clothing from clothes moths, it has been found by the United States 
Department of Agriculture. That is, provided proper precautions are taken first to beat, 
brush, and, if possible, sun all articles before they are placed in chests. Since it is the odor 
of red cedar that kills young moth worms, special care should be taken to prevent undue 
escape of the aroma from the chests. 

Of the three stages in the growth of clothes moths — the adult or moth miller, the worm or 
larva, and the pupa, — the second is the only one that damages fabrics, and the only one killed 
in cedar chests; but this is not affected after it becomes one-half to full grown. Practically 
all moth worms hatching within the chests die mthin one or two weeks after hatching and a 
surprisingly large number die within two to three days. Of the worms hatching within 
cedar chests, from the 2,074 eggs recorded in experimental work, none were found alive one 
month from the date the eggs were placed in the chests. 

If clothing is cleaned and brushed with great care and immediately roUed tightly with 
napthalene with several thicknesses of unbroken paper, it will remain unmolested by moths. 
The ends of the package must be doubled back and securely tied or sealed so that no moth can 
crawl into the package at the ends. Clothes moths will not eat through paper under ordinary 
conditions. One to two pounds of fresh napthalene, placed in any chest constructed as 
tightly as are cedar chests, will protect clothing from moth damage just as well as cedar chests. 



WTIOLESALE PRICES IN UNITED STATES AND CANADA* 
(Average of Year 1913 = base 100) 





FARM PRODUCTS 


FOOD 


CLOTHS AND 
CLOTHING 


FL-EL AND 
LIGHTING 


ALL 
COMUODITIES 




United 
States 


Canada 


United 
States 


Canada 


United 
States 


Canada 


United 
States 


Canada 


United 
States 


Can- 
ada 


1913, July 1 

1914, July 1 

191.S, July 1 

1916, July 1 

1917, July 1 

1918, July 1 

1919, July 1 

1920, July 1 

1921, July 1 

1921, August 1 . .. 
1921. September 1 


101 
104 
108 
118 
199 
224 
246 
236 
115 
118 
122 


100 
109 
122 
130 
187 
216 
205 
247 
145 
147 
134 


102 
104 

104 
121 
181 
184 
216 
268 
134 
152 
146 


99 
96 
96 
118 

172 
188 
184 
222 
143 
146 
149 


100 
99 
99 
126 
187 
249 
282 
317 
179 
179 
187 


100 
104 
111 
147 
184 
220 
252 
236 
138 
136 
136 


99 
95 
90 
108 
192 
166 
171 
252 
184 
182 
178 


96 
93 
90 
107 
195 
205 
195 
294 
204 
203 
203 


100 
100 
101 
119 
186 
198 
218 
262 
148 
152 
152 


100 
100 

111 

134 
184 
210 
218 
257 
177 
175 
172 



* From the Barometer Letter prepared by Babson's Statistical Organization, Wellesley 
Hills. Mass. 



EDITORIAL 

Metabolism of the Underweight Child. The attention being 
given to child nutrition in schools, cHnics, extension and social centers 
but parallels the increasing amount of investigative study of the physiol- 
og}' of digestion and metabolism of normal and abnormal children. The 
arousal of the public to a hve concern over the perhaps more superficial 
aspects of the problem of the undernourished child has no doubt stimu- 
lated a considerable part of these investigations now in progress. We 
are beginning to find out something of what is taking place within the 
body of the underweight child. 

Undernutrition in infants and the changes in metabohsm which fol- 
low are caused originally by artificial feeding says Utheim.' He says 
that one of the first effects of failing nutrition is in the circulatory system 
as indicated by a decrease in certain oxidative powers of the organism. 
Later follow changes in intermediary metabohsm and functional dis- 
turbance in the intestinal tract. The food eaten is less well utilized and 
in severe cases there is a loss of food material in the stools as high as 26 
per cent of the food intake, a loss which decreases with improvement in 
the nutritional status of the child. 

The basal energy metabohsm of severely malnourished infants has 
been charted by Talbot- in a new series of observations. He shows the 
metabohsm to be abnormally high for the size of the infant though there 
is not a noticeable increase imtil the child is 20 per cent or more under- 
weight; the more the infant is xmderweight the more calories it produces 
per kilo of body weight. Older children have been found by Blunt, 
Nelson, and Oleson' to show this same excessive rate of metabolism per 
kilo of actual weight, but here the variation from the smoothed curves for 
the child of normal weight is apparent even when he is considerably less 
than 20 per cent underweight. They report an average metabohc excess 

' Utheim, K.: Metabolism studies in infants suffering from chronic nutritional disturb- 
ances. Am. J. Dis. Chad., 1921, 22: 329. 

* Talbot, F. B.: Severe infantile malnutrition. The energy metabolism with the report 
of a new series of cases. Am. J. Dis. Child., 1921,22:358. 

^ Blunt, K., Nelson, A., and Oleson, H. C. : The basal metabolism of underweight children. 
J. Biol. Chem., 1921, 49: 247. See also the article by Dr. Blunt in this number of the 
Journal. 

141 



142 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

of about 25 per cent for their 8 to 12 year old children as compared with 
the normal children of the same weight charted in the monograph by 
Benedict and Talbot.'' No close relationship was found in these older 
children between the per cent of underweight and the excess of energy 
metabolism. 

Just what is the full significance of this high rate of metabolism in the 
underweight child is not yet apparent. Talbot has estimated that if 
his infants had weighed what normal infants of the same age do weigh, 
then the basal metabolism would have fallen more nearly within the nor- 
mal curve, which shows that the high rate is due to a low body fat con- 
tent. The body's metabolism goes on apace even though the filling out 
of the body with fat lags behind. Failure by the undernourished child 
to absorb and use even that food which is given, taken together with the 
fact that the child first failed to gain or lose weight because of lack of 
food, would appear to be a vicious circle difficult to break. Malnutri- 
tion does not always yield easily to correction as every physician, mother, 
and nutrition worker knows. As our knowledge of the physiology of 
digestion and metabolism of children increases, more Hght will be shed on 
the methods of procedure in dealing with the underweight child. 

Studies in Coffee Making. The last word about methods of making 
coffee is far from being said yet as is indicated by the many interesting 
investigations now in progress. Prescott,' working for the National 
Coffee Roasters' Association, has found that water below the boiling 
temperature, about 85 to 90 degrees Centigrade, brews a cup of coffee 
far superior in flavor to that made with water at 95 to 100 degrees. 
Coffee boiled one and one-half minutes is decidedly inferior to any made 
at a lower temperature. His judgment is the outcome of a vote of 
groups of individuals of discriminating taste perceptions who acted as 
the tasters of his experimental brews. He is led to believe that there is 
"what may be called a critical temperature in coffee making, which is 
below the point at which the effervescence takes place, when chemical 
changes go on in the coffee that permit the solution of more of the as- 
tringent or bitter substances There is the important 

physiological aspect of the problem, for it may conceivably be that the 
complex changes brought about at or near the boiUng temperature 

* Benedict, F. G., and Talbot, F. B.: Carnegie Institute of Washington, Pub. 302 (1921). 

' Prescott, Samuel C: Report of Investigations by the Bureau of Scientific Researdi of 
the National Coffee Roasters' Association, The Tea and Coffee Trade Journal, 1921, 41: 688 
(X'ovember). 



1922] EDITORL\L 143 

decompose certain substances in the bean with the formation or setting 
free of materials that are not only prejudicial to the taste of the coffee, 
but may also have a direct physiological effect of undesirable character." 

The stress which professional coffee men heretofore have put on vio- 
lently boiling water can hardly be discounted so quickly. On the other 
hand, it is true that percolated and drip coffees, so popular and easily 
made, do not reach the boiling temperature and yet with the average man 
pass as very excellent coffee. Prescott's preference for water below the 
boiling temperature is probably not to be given the approval of the 
association imtil further corroborated. 

The caffein Prescott believes to exist both in the free state and in 
combination, though the combined caffein is probably broken up to 
some extent by the roasting process. If these unbroken caffein com- 
pounds have any bearing, as he believes they do, on the known coffee 
idiosyncrasies of some individuals, then a high roast may be a desirable 
thing. However, Sayre^ intimates that a low roast is desirable for 
reasons other than the effect on the caffein. The toxic effects of coffee, 
he says, are due, not primarily to the caffein but to such compounds as 
furfuraldehyde, pyridine, catechol, the decomposition products formed 
at the high roasting temperatures. 

The art of coffee making, the chemistry of the constituents which 
give the brew its flavor, body, and aroma, and the effects of coffee upon 
the metaboUsm of both children and adults, all offer fertile fields for 
investigative endeavor. 

Belgian Exchange of Students and Teachers. The Belgian 
Ambassador to the United States and the Belgian Director General of 
Agriculture and Horticulture suggest that it might be of mutual ad- 
vantage to the United States and Belgium if a number of American young 
women should attend the Normal Institute of Agricultural Home Eco- 
nomics in Laeken. It is also suggested that American agricultural col- 
leges "exchange" students or teachers for a time with the Belgian 
Institute on a "living expense" basis. 

The purpose of the Institute is to prepare young women for all phases 
of rural Ufe. About half of the students' time is devoted to formal 
instruction and half to practical work. Anyone wishing to enter the in- 
stitution may open negotiations through the Belgian Embassy in Wash- 
ington. Under the present exchange rate it would be relatively inex- 
pensive for American girls to take advantage of this opportunity. 

« Sayre. L. E.: The Volatile Principles of Coffee. Bulletin of Pharmacy, July, 1916. 



144 THE jommAL of home economics [March 

The school is in one of the suburbs of Brussels, in grounds that imtil 
recently formed part of the royal domain of Hosseghem and have been 
donated for their present purpose by the royal family. The Queen of the 
Belgians has been personally interested in the development of the school. 
Its director, Dr. Jean Lindemans, visited many agricultural colleges and 
home economics schools in the United States while the plans for the 
Laeken Institute were being developed. 

OPEN FORUM 

Establishing Standards in Practice Field Work in Training for Institutional 
Administration. In following the development of courses in Institutional Administration 
in a growing number of colleges throughout the country, it is encouraging to find that, in 
probably every course offered, at least some provision has been made for giving the students 
practical experience in the field. We all appear to agree, therefore, that such practical 
experience is essential but it is quite evident that suitable standards have not yet been estab- 
lished and that much careful investigation must be carried on before this phase of the training 
win be organized in a comprehensive way. What standards should be set for the practice 
field by the institution? What type of supervision should be required? What order of 
processes is desirable in order that the practice work may have definite educational value? 
When should the practice work be given? Should the student receive college credit? Should 
she be paid? Should she begin work with the duties of a regular employee? 

It is hoped that instructors and adminstrators in the hospital or business fields, who are 
training students, will use this section for the discussion of any phase of the subject. 

— The Editor. 

A criticism of college trained women. There is a fallacy, entertained by many 
so-called "practical" persons interested in large group living problems, that 
college trained women are not successful in this field of work, especially where 
the positions carry hea^^' executive duties and much business administration. 
Such a generalization is usually made from a limited personal experience and 
is entirely misleading. The principles back of administrative work demand 
more than a superficial knowledge of the fundamental sciences. Rarely does 
a rule-of-thumb worker make much progress in really constructive work, and, 
again, practice is kept safe and free from the danger of rule-of-thumb work by 
a constant infusion of science. We must admit, however, that there has been a 
tendency, in organizing special courses in institution administration, to rely 
far too strongly on theoretical knowledge, to delay educational activities of 
the work type as well as to create practice fields where e.^erience is not gained 
under normal conditions. Technical knowledge can be put to really effective 
use only where activities take place normally and where the right kind of prac- 
tical experience is provided. 

Present cotiditions in practice field work. Students are at present often re- 
quired to earn,' a somewhat heavy program of laboratory and class work while 
they are being given practical experience in the field. Under these conditions 



1922] OPEN FORUM 145 

they cannot well do justice to both tj'pes of work, especially when they trans- 
fer quickly from one type to the other. Again, limited experience in the coUege 
cafeteria is most inadequate. Large groups must be housed as well as fed, and 
students should come into very close touch with all phases of such institutional 
work. There is a growing f eeUng in favor of a plan which allows the student 
to spend her entire time on practice work during periods long enough to make 
her familiar with conditions in a particular field. It is also thought that she 
should begin this experience early in her training, so as to be able to interpret 
her class work more inteUigently. Her first experience should, if possible, be 
gained within the college, where domitories and lunchrooms are available and 
where conditions can be carefully controlled. It is important, also, that the 
college recognize this as a very important part of the training and provide ade- 
quately for the super\dsion of this work. A busy director may have little time 
to give to these students and may not be able to adapt her organization to 
their special needs. 

Some practice field requirements. It is wise to make quite definite the con- 
ditions under which all such practice work is carried on, when making arrange- 
ments for it either within or outside the college. The active cooperation of 
leaders in the field should be sought, and any institution in which the practice 
work is done should be approved by the college. It should represent good 
organization, adepuate systems of control, modern methods of business ad- 
ministration, and consideration for relative values. The director who super- 
vises the work should be in close touch with the college and satisfactory 
arrangements should be made with reference to students' maintenance, hours 
of duty, super^dsion, and living conditions. A criticism of the students' 
work should be sent to the coUege at intervals. They should become familiar 
with systems of control and working conditions in storerooms, kitchens, serv- 
ing rooms or serving counters, dining rooms, linen room and laundry, and with 
housekeeping methods in the general care of the house. They should also 
spend some time in the oSice observing business methods, including the buying 
of suppUes, and assisting in record keeping and office routine. 

Students' responsibilities. Students should be made fully aware of their 
responsibilities. They should earnestly endeavor to fit into the life of the 
institution, to prove adaptability for this tj^pe of work and to maintain high 
ethical standards. They should keep immaculate in appearance, with suitable 
uniforms, and have a purposeful and professional attitude toward their work. 
A careful report of all work done should be sent to the college by each student 
after being approved by the director. 

Some practice field problems. College laboratory courses should give students 
a sound fundamental knowledge of good methods of work but the practice 
field should provide them with the opportunity for gaining a fair degree of 
skill in practical work, under conditions where emergencies are constantly 
arising. Facility in technique may be developed when the students are gaining 



146 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

their first experience, probably as regular employees. They should learn to 
make accurate records of the work accompUshed and in a short time to observe 
conditions beyond those of their immediate tasks. 

It must be recognized, however, that administration is a function in itself 
and that the students are in training to become competent administrators 
and not skilled workers. If arrangements could be made to have them spend 
alternate semesters in the field during their junior and senior years, they should 
devote the greater part of the second semester of practice work to a study of 
managerial problems. WhUe they are receiving intelligent supervision they 
should in turn be taught to supervise the work of others, to plan work for others, 
to inspect intelligently, to analyze conditions and make constructive criticism. 
Above all they should be assisted in studying general personnel problems and 
the psychology of directing workers as well as the conditions underlying the 
philosophy of management. 

Some of this practice work may well be taken during part of the long sum- 
mer vacations, thus reducing the time devoted to it during the regular sessions 
of the junior and senior years. The director or dietitian should not, however, 
arrange to leave inexperienced pupils in charge while she takes her vacation. 
This has been done but is obviously inadvisable. Practical experience intelli- 
gently supervised is a good test for the students' fitness for the work, and it 
will enable the college to judge the students' abOity much more definitely. 
Some wUl no doubt fall by the wayside, but it is much better that they should 
find out their lack of abUity for this particular type of work before the end of 
their college course, so that they may transfer to a more congenial field. On 
graduation they should be able to take an assistant's position instead of 
going out to gain a haphazard sort of experience in an unsupervised practice 
field. 

Katharine Fisher, 

Teachers College. 

An Inquiry. "I should like suggestions from other teachers as to how 
they carry out their bread-making lessons. I find it most difficult to obtain 
satisfactory results, on account of having to hold back the bread or hurry 
its rising in order to have it ready when the class needs it." 

R.G. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



spending the Family Income. By S. Agnes 
DoNHAM. Boston: Little, Brown & Co. 
1921, pp. 174. S1.75. 
In this book Miss Donham has given a 
clear, well designed presentation of the 
family budget, combining accuracy and sug- 
gestive definition with comprehensive out- 
line so as to produce a valuable text and 
reference volume. 

There is not only need but demand for 
books of this character, especially for those 
which deal with the basic study of home 
economics, that of the family budget. The 
teachers of this group of subjects often fail 
to see that the five divisions of the family 
income — shelter, operation, food, clothing, 
advancement — actually comprehend all they 
are to teach or present. So long as they fail 
to get this view they are apt to insufficiently 
relate the different activities, facts, theories, 
and principles, and the student becomes 
confused. 

Housekeeping is often referred to as a 
series of unrelated tasks, but this is no more 
true of it than of any other large business. 
The business of living is a big business to 
which all of science and art contributes, yet 
it is after all a simple affair. We have to 
be sheltered, clothed, and fed. The better 
this is done, the better the result. For the 
business of facilitating exchange of goods we 
have selected a medium called money. It 
is through the wise, intelligent use of this 
that we are enabled to get life in greater 
abundance. Home economics aims to teach 
those factors which make intelligent choice 
possible. 

Spending Ihe Family Income conveys all 
this to us in a simple, direct, and satisfying 
way. It does not ignore the spiritual or 
ethical significance of right living or the 
right use of money, but it does give prac- 
tical outlines and suggestions in such a way 



as to lead all who read the book toward a 
better understanding of the purpose and 
meaning of the family budget. It is a good 
text book, to be recommended to all who 
teach as well as to those homemakers who 
are seeking assistance in their household 
affairs. 

The particular service that Miss Donham 
has rendered to home economics in the pub- 
lication of this book is in simpUfying a sub- 
ject that occasionally causes trouble by 
its seeming intricacies. The making and 
adjusting of a budget is a simple matter. 
To teach the factors of choice or to learn 
relative values is a different thing involv- 
ing knowledge of all those details which make 
up a long difficult course in household man- 
agement. This is implied but the book deals 
simply and directly with the application of 
the principles of economics to the family 
income. 

Helen Louise Johnson. 

Women Professional Worhers. By Eliza- 
beth Kemper Adams, Ph.D. New York: 
The MacmUlan Co., 1921, pp. 467. $2.50. 
This welcome book is the last and most 
exhaustive of the series on "Vocations for 
the Trained Woman," begun in 1910 by the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union 
of Boston. The enhanced importance of 
the work of trained women under war condi- 
tions, their appearance in "the unclassified 
twilight zone between the professions and 
the trades," where they demonstrated their 
competency, increased opportunity for train- 
ing, all had made pre-war vocational stud- 
ies entirely inadequate. Only one of Dr. 
Adams' scholarly mind and wide experience 
could have accomplished so well the task set 
of giving us a view of this new terrain now 
occupied by women workers. We have 
here descriptions of the new professions 

147 



148 



THE JOTJENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



which are attracting women, together with 
painstaking analyses of the duties connected 
with them. The very number of them tells 
the story of the desertion of older fields, not- 
ably teaching, by the more adventurous. 
Everywhere is the evidence of new interest 
groupings which mark the increased voca- 
tional self-consciousness among women. 

The first chapters are given over to an 
illuminating study of the change in meaning 
of the term "professional," from its earlier 
and narrower application to a time when a 
worker is considered professional "who is 
equipped by ability, education, and experi- 
ence to maintain and to improve standards 
of operation in the work in which she 
is engaged" (p. 7). Chapters V-VII 
describe the opportunities open to women 
specialists in health and hygiene, dietetics, 
and home economics. Chapter \Tn is 
given over to community, civic, and govern- 
ment services; Chapter EX to social service. 
Chapters XI-XV, deaUng with the emer- 
gence of women in the commercial and indus- 
trial world, could stand as an independent 
study. A selected and annotated reading 
list, with a good index, enhance the value of 
the book. 

Dr. Adams' attitude toward the problem 
of marriage and the profession is refreshing: 
"It is no longer taken as a matter of course 
that women will entirely give up their pro- 
fessional work when they marry, and hence 
cannot expect to receive serious professional 
consideration. A growing number of pro- 
fessional married couples — most of them 
young — are working out the problem 
together, and making a genuine contribution 
to social adjustment" (p. 31). In fact, 
although one closes the book with the impres- 
sion that it wiU be hard going for some time 
yet, the road is charted. Especially do we 
need a statisrical semaphore to signal when 
enough workers have been turned into a 
vocarional block. But later studies need 
only add to what Dr. Adams has so ably 
done. 

IvA L. Peters, 
Vocational Adviser, Gaucher College. 



Vocational Arithmetic for Girls. By Nettie 
Stewakt Davis. Milwaukee: Bruce 
Publishing Company, 1920, pp. 137. 
$0.70. 

Every teacher of a sewing trade discovers 
that her students are not able to apply the 
mathematical principles which they pre- 
sumably know to the problems that arise in 
the trade instruction and that a thorough 
review of these principles with their applica- 
tion to the trade job on hand is necessary. 

Text books offering such systematic 
review and at the same time good selections 
of pertinent problems are scarce, so that 
each new book that appears in this field is 
eagerly welcomed. A valuable addition to 
the list of available texts has been made by 
Netrie Stewart Davis, teacher of applied 
mathematics in the Milwaukee Trade School 
for Girls. 

In this book, Mrs. Davis has, in a simple 
scientific way, given us the results of her 
years of experience in helping the trade 
school girl meet her diiBculties. She has 
succeeded in doing two things which are not 
always successfully done. Her selection of 
problems compels a review of fractions, 
decimals, and percentage in such a logical 
way that the text can be followed even by 
the girls who have not completed grade work. 
In the mixed classes which make up the usual 
vocational or part time class, this is most 
important, as it is extremely disconcerting 
for the girl who is struggling to multiply 
61 by 3j to find that the next problem 
involves decimals of which she has a very 
hazy memory left over from her last contact 
in her school years some time ago. The 
problems closely follow the order of "trade 
jobs" as given in most of the schools for the 
sewing trades, so that the teacher of applied 
mathematics will find this book a help and a 
guide in the arrangement of the problems 
which she must select from the work room, 
and of value in furnishing supplementary 
material upon which she can fall back for 
home work and class drill. Of course, no 
text book can be used by the real teacher 
of applied subjects to supplant the constant 
touch with the trade room. 



1922] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 149 

The problems chosen are those that Mrs. The Delinealor has recently contained four 

Davis has found arising in the progress of articles from Dr. Bird T. Baldwin, Director 

the Milwaukee girls through the sewing and of the Iowa Child Welfare Research Station, 

homemaking training which they receive The Research Station was established as a 

in the Milwaukee school; and because the part of the Iowa State University for the 

book is the product of actual experience investigation of the best scientific methods of 

and of expert selection and scientific arrange- conserving and developing the normal child, 

ment it is a distinct contribution to the the dissemination of such information 

literature of the trade and vocational acquired, and the training of students for 

schools. It will be found helpful to any future work. Dr. Baldwin has given to 

teacher struggling with the perplexing Delineator readers practical observations as 

problem of getting enough material of the a result of experimental work which will be 

right kind for her classes in applied of especial value to departments of home 

mathematics. economics in which child welfare is con- 

Elizabeth M. Fish. sidered. 

BIBLIOGR.'\PHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 
Periodical Literature 

Foods and Nutrition 

Bosworth, A. W. : Studies on Infant Feeding XV. The Calcium of Cow's Milk in Its Rela- 
tion to the Digestion and Absorption of Casein. Protein Curds in the Stool. Am. J. 
Diseases Children, 1921, 22: 613-619. 

Brunkow, O. R., Peterson, W. H., and Fred, E. B.: The Influence of Certain Factors upon the 
Chemical Composition of Sauerkraut. J. Am. Chem. Soc, 1921, 43: 2244-2255. 

Cajorie, F. A.: Some Nutritive Properties of Nuts II. The Pecan Nut as a Source of Ade- 
quate Protem. J. Biol. Chem., 1921, 49: 389-397. 

Cowgill, G. R. and Mendel, L. B.: Studies in Physiology of Vitamins I. Vitamin B and 
Secretory Function of the Glands. Am. J .Physiol., 1921,58: 131-151. 

Gird, E.: California Cookery. The Table, 1921, 70:136,141. 

Hopkins, F. G.: Newer Aspects of the Nutrition Problem. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1922, 14:64- 
69. 

Irving, G. R.: Malnutrition Among Cardiac Children. Eosp. Soc. Service, 1921, 4:355-359. 

Mitchell, H. S. and Mendel, L. B.: Studies in Nutrition, Choice Between Adequate and 
Inadequate Diet as Made by Rats and Mice. Am. J. Physiol., 1921, 58:211-225. 

Shipley, P. G., McCoUum, E. V., and Simmonds, N.: Studies on Experimental Rickets IX. 
Lesions in the Bones of Rats Suffering from Uncomplicated Beri-beri. /. Biol. Chem., 
1921, 49:399-410. 

Steenbock, H., Nelson, E. M., and Hart, E. B.: Fat Soluble Vitamin IX. Incidence of 
Ophthalmic Reaction in Dogs Fed Fat Soluble Vitamin Deficient Diet. Am. J. Physiol., 
1921, 58:14-19. 

Wang, C. C: The Composition of Chinese Edible Birds' Nests and the Nature of Their 
Proteins. /. Biol. Chem., 1921, 49:429-439. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Beckmann, J.: Indigo. Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:35-37; 120-122; 618-620; 670. 
Berlet, G. N.: Sericulture in Japan. Textile World, 1921, 60:3625-3672. 
Chittick, J.: Jlethods of Counting Threads in Fabrics. Textile World, 1921, 60: 3623, 3625 
Crawford, M. D. C: The History of Textiles in the New World. Dyestuffs, 1921, 22:725- 
737. 



150 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Darby, W. D.: Cotton, the Universal Fibre. Dry Goods Econ., 1921, No. 4039:21, 54; 

4040:35, 37; 4041 :25, 26; 4042: 43, 47; 4043:21, 22. 
Eichlin, A. S.: Pearl Buttons. Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:752, 753. 
Fales, W.: How to Know and Choose Decorative Textiles. Good Housekeeping, Dec. 1921, 

73:27, 102, 105, 106, 109. 
Frank, J. E.: As Europe Sees Us. Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:605-609. 
Goldthwait, C. F.: Graphic Method for Textile Calculations. Textile World, 1921, 60:3717, 

3719. 
Hoskins, H. B.: The Mexican Cotton Textile Industry. Textile World, 1921, 60:3595, 

3671,3672. 
Kauffraan, J. J.: Fast Color Tests for Cotton Goods That are Intelligible to the Layman. 

Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:825, 826. 
Malcolme, D. L.: The Manufacture of Flax Yam. Textile World, 1921, 60:3611, 3613, 3615. 
Petrunkevitch, A.: Spider Silk and Its Uses. Nat. Hist., 1921, 21 :381. 
Shaffer, E. T. H.: A New South: The Boll Weevil Era. All. Mo., 1922, 129: 116-123. 
Chemical Action of Sunlight on Dyed Fabrics. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29:68-70. 
The Colorimeter for Testing and Matching Dyes. Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:744, 745. 
Color Situation in England. Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:617, 618. 
Domestic Dyes in 1920. Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:533, 534. 
Tests for Fastness of Dyes are Devised for Use of Textile Trade by German Commission. 

Textile Colorist, 1921, 43:537-541. 
To Test Bed Sheets. Textile World, 1921 , 60 : 3373. 
The Training of Mill Chemists. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29:67, 68. 

Miscellaneous 

Baldwin, B. T.: For the Study of Young Children. School Life, 1921, 7:96. 
Bitting, A. W.: Comparative Strength of Prescription Bottles. Glass Indus., 1921, 2:187. 
Blum, A.: Enamel or Glazing Compositions. Glass Indus., 1921, 2:193. 
Davis, J. E.: Legislative Gains in Child Protection, Survey, Sept. 24, 1921. 
French, J. W.: Some Workshop Notes on Silvering. Glass Indus., 1921, 2:291-293. 
Joseph, B.: The Consulting Dietitian. Hasp. Soc. Serv., 1921, 4:348-350. 
Krak, J. B.: Colored Glass. Glass Indus., 1921, 2:294, 295. 

Extent of Rural Health Service in the United States. U. S. Pub. Health Kept., 1921, 36:2832. 
Importance of Good Teeth and Prevention of Decay. U. S. Pub. Health Kept., 1921, 36:2825. 
Report of the Section of Home Economics. Assoc. Land Grant Colleges Proc, 1921, 34:219- 
276. 

Published Reports on Breast Feeding Project Instituted by Dr. J. P. Sedgicick, Department of 
Pediatrics, University of Minnesota 

Sedgwick, J. P.: Maternal Feeding. Am. J. Obstetrics, 1912, 66:857-865. 

Sedgwick, J. P.: Establishment, Maintenance, and Reinstitution of Breast Feeding. /. 

Am. Med. Assoc, 1917, 69:417. 
Rudd, Nathalie C: Breast Feeding in Minneapolis. Mother and Child, 1921, 2:171-173. 
Sedgwick, J. P.: A Preliminary Report of the Study of Breast Feeding in Minneapolis.^ w. 

/. Diseases Children, 1921, 19:455-464. 
Sedgwick, J. P. and Fleischner, E. C: Breast Feeding in the Reduction of Infant Mortality. 

Am. J. Pub. Health, 1921, 11:153. 
Maeder, L. M. A.: Clinical and Experimental Studies on Lactation at the University of 

Minnesota. Arch. Ped., 1921, 38:557-567. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

A SPECIAL TRAIN TO CORVALLIs! 
WILL YOU JOIN IT? 

Since the appearance of the article in the February issue, the Transportation and Execu- 
tive Conunittees, after conferring with a number of members in order to gain an idea of the 
preference in the matter of scenery en route, have definitely selected the Burlington Route 
from Chicago to St. Paul and the Great Northern Railway from St. Paul, via Glacier National 
Park and Seattle, to Corvallis, as the official route to the Annual meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association at Corvallis, Oregon, August 1 to 5, inclusive. 

The Burlington is the natural route from Chicago to St. Paul-Minneapolis, since, for 
300 miles, it follows the eastern shore of our great mid<ontinental stream — the Mississippi. 
For the most part, the rails are in sight of the Father of Waters — with the island dotted stream 
on the one side and a line of weather-worn limestone bluffs on the other side. There is a 
fascination about this beautiful waterway that lingers long after one has left its banks. In 
fact, a dayhght ride along the upper reaches of the Mississippi is a rare travel treat. 

The Great Northern Railway threads the lake and park region of Minnesota, one of the 
most beautiful sections of the United States, and traverses the Red River Valley, famous for 
its immense fields of wheat, to the thriving city of Grand Forks; thence straight across North 
Dakota, broad and level as the sea, to DevU's Lake, the largest body of water between the 
Great Lakes and the Rockies. Following the shifting Missouri through the fertile valley of 
the Milk River to a wealthy plains-and-cattle country, this line, in approaching the main 
range of the Rockies, afi'ords to the tourist some of the grandest mountain and river scenery 
which America holds. 

Glacier Park is the most talked of place in America by out-of-doors folk. Up there in 
the northern Rockies in northwestern Montana, there are 1500 square miles of breathing 
room, loafing space; endless forests, hundreds of sparkling streams meandering through 
valleys ablaze with vari-colored wild flowers and tumbling over foaming waterfalls feeding 
many rare and beautiful mountain lakes, while in the "high spots" there are eternal slow 
moving glaciers astride the pageant of carved and tinted peaks. 

The plan is to spend two days in this "high" land and breatlie the breezes quickened by 
the glaciers, flavored by the mountains and streams, and perfumed by the pines and flowers. 
If you are a fisherman, you'll enjoy battling with the cut-throat trout; if you are a hiker, there 
are no end of trails to follow — to your heart's content; if you like to ride, a sturdy little moun- 
tain pony will carry you over sky line trails over and along the Continental Divide. 

West of Glacier Park, the Great Northern winds through and across the Rockies to Spokane 
which styles itself "the metropolis of the inland empire" and then strikes straight-away 
across the great wheat country to the valley of the Wenatchee, of apple fame; zig-zags across 
the evergreen covered mountains of the Cascade Range; and lets itself down to Puget Sound- 
often referred to as "the Mediterranean of America" — closely following the eastern shoreline 
to Seattle which Seattle-ites are pleased to term "the seaport of success." En route to Port- 
land, the ride is an interesting one for the main down a fertile valley bordering on Puget 
Sound and between two rather widely separated mountain ranges. 

151 



152 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The present plan is to leave Chicago at 10;00 A.M. on Wednesday, July 26, and arrive 
Glacier Park at 8:00 A.M. on the morning of Friday, the 28th. The itinerarj' for the two 
days in the park is: leave Glacier Park Hotel by auto 8:00 A.M., Friday morning, arriving 
Many Glacier Hotel at 12:45 for luncheon. For the afternoon, a choice of a hike or saddle 
horse trip to Iceberg Lake and return, taking dirtner and lodging at Many Glacier Hotel. 
On the twenty-ninth, leave Many Glacier Hotel at 8:00 A.M. by auto, arrive St. Mary's at 
9:45 A.M.; leave St. Mary's via launch at 10:30 A.M., arrive Going-to-the-Sun Chalets at 
noon for luncheon; leave at 2:00 P.M., reaching Glacier Park Hotel at 5:30 P.M. and, after 
dinner and a short rest, leave for the West. The daylight ride from Spokane to Seattle is 
one long to be remembered. Arriving Seattle at 8:00 P.M. on Sunday, there would be time 
for "a trip about town" and the journey to Portland before 8:00 A.M. the next morning. 

The cost of the trip from Chicago, including round trip railroad fare, sleeper ticket from 
Chicago to Portland, including stop overs, meals en route, and the e.xpense of the two-day side 
trip in Glacier Park is estimated at approximately S1"0 per person. This figure is based on 
railroad fares in effect during 1921. The rates to be effective for 1922 will be no higher and 
probably will be lower. The expense to be added for the return journey will depend, of course, 
largely upon the route selected by the members, the stop overs made, length of stay, and so 
forth. 

Members who may find it more convenient to pass through St. Louis, Kansas City, or 
Denver, instead of Chicago, may have the option of joining our party at St. Paul or may take 
advantage of the through sleeping car service offered by the Burlington Route direct via the 
Big Horn Mountains of Wyoming, the Custer Battlefield, and Great Falls, and meet with the 
main party upon arrival at Glacier Park. 

The advantage of traveling in a special train is obvious. Aside from enjoyment of special 
service aU along the line, there is an unexcelled opportunity to make new acquaintances and 
renew old acquaintances as well as to discuss Association matters before our arrival at the 
convention city. 

Further details bearing on the trip, will be announced from time to time. 

.\ny communications or requests for information should be addressed to the Chairman of 
the Travel Committee, Miss Nina Streeter, 1370 East 54th St., Chicago. 

The National Society for Vocational Bill. (2) We urge that a committee be 

Education held its fifteenth annual conven- appointed to cooperate with similar com- 

tion, January 5-7, 1922, in Kansas City, mittees appointed by the State Directors and 

Missouri. The Section on Homemaking other organizations pushing this bill. (3) 

Education presented an excellent program We recommend that as soon as possible a 

and was well attended. Margaret Johnston, representative of this committee confer with 

State Supervisor of Wisconsin, was elected the members of the Educational Committees 

chairman of the Section for next year, and of the National Congress as to the advisa- 

Jessie Harris, State Supervisor of Texas, bility of reintroducing this bill and the best 

was appointed a member of the executive methods of promoting its passage so that 

committee. Among a number of resoludons funds will be available for this work during 

passed by the national organization was 1922-23. 
the following: 

Where.as, This Society recognizes the Vocational Conferences. In attend- 
importance of training in vocational home ance at the two regional conferences called 
economics and realizes that more funds must by the Federal Board for Vocadonal Ed- 
be provided for the States to stimulate this ucation were the state supervisors, the 
work, be it administrative heads of the home economics 

Resolved, That (1) We reaffirm our departments, and the women in charge of 

endorsement of the Fess Home Economics teacher-training ki colleges in the states of 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



153 



the Southern and Eastern regions. The 
Eastern region comprises New England, New 
York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, 
Maryland, West Virginia, and Ohio. This 
conference was held Dec. 19-21, 1921, in 
New York City. The Southern region is 
made up of the ten southern states. This 
conference was held Jan. 9-12, in New 
Orleans. 

Public Health Service Institutes. 
In order to meet the insistent nation-wide 
demand, the Public Health Service arranged 
a series of Institutes to be held in the larger 
widely scattered cities of the United States. 
These began with Hot Springs, Ark., in 
November, and have been held in New 
Orleans, Columbia, S. C, Dallas, Tex., 
Birmingham, Ala., Memphis, Louisville, 
Indianapolis, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Lan- 
sing, Mich., Chicago, Miimeapolis. Other 
cities and dates so far listed are as follows: 
Portland, Oreg., and Kansas City, Kans., 
April 10-15; Spokane, Wash., and Newark, 
N. J., April 17-22; Helena, Mont., and 
Albany, N. Y., April 24-29; Denver, May 
1-6; Washington, D. C, late in May. Some 
dates in the schedule remain vacant, and 
these are being rapidly allotted. 

The Institutes were planned to run for a 
week. The basic courses include from three 
to six lectures on tuberculosis, child hygiene, 
nutrition, clinics, and health centers, com- 
municable diseases, non-communicable dis- 
eases, industrial hygiene, sanitary engineer- 
ing, administrative problems, mental 
hygiene, medical social work, sj^DhUis, 
gonorrhea, protective social work, and the 
delinquent. Single lectures are also given 
on special occasions. 

Construction for Housing. There was a 
decided increase in the construction of 
dwelling houses in this country during the 
first ten months of 1921, according to 
information obtained by the Civic Develop- 
ment Department of the Chamber of Com- 
merce of the United States. Construction 
figures, furnished by forty-four important 
cities, show that during the period 
from January to October, 1921, about 
$603,000,000 went into new construction, 



while during all 1920 the total in the same 
cities was only $8,000,000 more. During 
the shorter period in 1921, 57.9 per cent of 
the total was for dwelling houses as against 
only 36.1 per cent in 1920. 



The Iowa Home Economics Associa- 
tion held its Eighth Annual Meeting in 
Des Jloines, November 3rd and 4th, Mrs. 
Helen Wagner, Supervisor of Home Eco- 
nomics, Des Moines, presiding. The Asso- 
ciation has a membership of one hundred 
fourty-eight. The secretary is LUlis Knap- 
penberger, Iowa State College. 

The program was as foUows: Recent 
Research in Nutrition, Dr. Ruth Wheeler, 
Professor of Nutrition, Medical College, 
State University of Iowa; Nutrition Classes 
for Children, Dr. Caroline B. Hedger of the 
Elizabeth McCormick Memorial of Chicago; 
School Projects in Home Economics, Helen 
Goodspeed, former Supervisor of Home 
Economics in Wisconsin, and Julia Hurd of 
Iowa State College. The Des Moines 
school children, under the direction of Ella 
Langenberg, of the Abbott Educational 
Company, presented a playlet, "Color in 
Dress." 

A tribute was paid to the memory of Dean 
Catliarine MacKay, who was largely respon- 
sible for forming the association. She 
served as secretary, as president, as chair- 
man of its most important committees. 
Every teacher of home economics in Iowa 
has felt the magnetism of her personality, 
her earnestness, and her enthusiasm. They 
have served their communities better 
because of her inspiration, her fine concep- 
tion of service. 

A Memorial Service was held for Dean 
Catharine J. MacKay on December 18, 
1921. Brief addresses were given by some 
of the women closely cormected with her in 
various lines of work — Mrs. James A. Devitt, 
a member of the State Board of Education, 
Flora Dunlap of the Roadside Settlement, 
Des Moines, and Mrs. Cora Whitley, Chair- 
man of the State Council of National 
Defense. Louise Wiese, President of the 
Woman's Guild, represented the student 



154 



THE JOXIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



body, and Acting Dean Walls, Dean Curtis, 
and President Pearson spoke for the faculty. 
Plans were announced concerning a perma- 
nent memorial in the form of a student loan 
fund or scholarship. 

Club News. Iowa sent thirty-seven girls 
and leaders to the International Stock Show 
in Chicago. In 1920, 33j per cent of the 
Iowa group represented home economics 
projects, while in 1921, SOn, per cent 
represented home projects. This shows a 
remarkable growth in this line of club work. 
Iowa girb at the show put on demonstrations 
in house furnishing, labor saving devices, 
garment work, canning of meats, uses of 
dried fruits, and table setting. 

Boys and girls club work took on a new 
aspect when the national committee, com- 
posed of prominent business men, announced 
that G. L. Noble had been appointed national 
secretary. Mr. Noble, with headquarters 
in Chicago, will devote his entire time to 
furthering the interest of junior work in 
cooperation with agricultural extension 
forces. Mr. Noble had charge of the S60 
champion boys and girls who had been 
awarded trips to the International from 26 
states and Ontario, and he planned for 
them a real educational week, with visits 
to Field Museum, Art Institute, Swifts, 
Amour's, and the WUson packing plants. 
International Harvester Company, Chicago 
Board of Trade, and Marshall Fields, as well 
as to the Stock Show itself. 

At the big club rally, secretary of Agri- 
culture Wallace, J. W. Coverdale of the 
American Farm Bureau Federation, George 
Farrell of Washington, and representatives 
of the Chicago Association of Commerce 
were guests. 

The annual meeting of the County 
Agents, Home Demonstradon Agents, Club 
Agents, and Extension SpeciaUsts was held 
at Iowa State College, November 15-18, 
1921. The first meetings were given over to 
reports, plans for new work, discussion of 
weak points, and methods of strengthening 
the work. Community program develop- 
ment was emphasized. Dr. Caroline Hedger, 
of the EUzabeth McCormick Memorial, Chi- 
cago, spoke on "Some Interesting Phases of 
Nutrition Work" to the Home Demonstra- 



tion Agents, and later addressed a general 
meeting on "The Farm Bureau in Relation 
to Public Health." Later discussions cov- 
ered the training schools in leadership estab- 
lished for farm bureau women, the teaching 
of food values, a summary of the new home 
management project, the refinishing of 
furniture project, plans for Girk' Club work, 
and the work at the state fair. 



Teachers Meetings. Four state meet- 
ings of teachers of home economics were held 
in Kansas in November — one at Topeka, at 
the time of the annual meeting of the State 
Teachers Association, another at Hays, 
the third at Wichita, the fourth at Pitts- 
burg. The subjects for discussion were the 
linking of the home economics work in the 
schools with the home, legislation affecting 
home economics, newer aspects of nutrition, 
and the commercial possibilities of home 
economics training. 

Kansas State Agricultural College. 
Nina B. Crigler (A.M. Columbia University) 
has been appointed State Home Demonstra- 
tion Leader at the Kansas State Agriculture 
College. Miss Crigler has been a member of 
the staff at the University of Illinois both as 
a teacher and in extension service. She has 
also served in the California Normal Col- 
lege, Santa Barbara, College of Industrial 
Arts, Denton, Texas, and as Home Econom- 
ics Supervisor in Texas. 

Dr. L. Jean Bogert, Professor of Food 
Economics and Nutrition, presented a paper 
on Methods of Teaching Applied Sciences 
to Home Economics Students in Vocational 
High Schools at the meeting of the National 
Society for Vocational Education held in 
Kansas City, Mo., January 5 to 7, 1922. 

MARYLAND 

The Home Economics Section of the 

State Teachers Association of Maryland held 
its sixth annual meeting November 26, 1921, 
at the Western High School, Baltknore, 
with the president, Elizabeth Swick, pre- 
siding. 

Venia M. KeUar, State Home Demonstra- 
tion Leader, e.xplained the policies of the 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



155 



Extension Department of the University 
of Maryland. Pearl MacDonald, Professor 
of Home Economics Extension, State Col- 
lege, Pa., impressed upon home economics 
workers their responsibility for developing 
home making as a fine art. Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy reported several phases of work now 
carried on in the Office of Home Eco- 
nomics, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, and 
illustrated this work by food charts, and 
samples of repair work in clothing and home 
furnishings. 

The question of afiiliation was presented 
by Keturah Baldwin and emphasized by 
Alma Richardson and Mrs. Calvin. The 
Section voted to become a state association 
and to affiliate with the American Home 
Economics Association. The following offi- 
cers were elected: President, Frances Zuill, 
Supervisor of H. E., Baltimore City Schools; 
Vice-President, Mabel Stevenson; Secretary, 
Miss Troy; Treasurer, Corrinne Hibbard. 
The state members and the guests were 
entertained at dinner by the Baltimore 
Home Economics Association. 

The Program of the Baltimore Home 
Economics Association for January was 
in charge of Mrs. .•\gnes O'Dea, Head Dieti- 
tian, Johns Hopkins Hospital. Mrs. O'Dea 
and her staff entertained the Association 
at the Hospital and arranged for the discus- 
sion of Dietitians' problems as follows: 
Social Service in Hospitals, Esther Wright, 
Johns Hopkins Hospital ; Feeding Ex-Service 
Men, Ruth Gubtel, U. S. Public Health 
Service Hospital, Fort McHenry; Purchasing 
and Preparing Food for a Hospital, Florence 
Nolan, University of Maryland Hospital. 

A tour through the kitchens and supply 
rooms gave an opportunity to see modern 
equipment and to observe the elficient 
service of the Dietary Department under 
the direction of Mrs. O'Dea. 

NEW YORK 

The Sewing Exhibit of the Domestic 
Art Department of the Buffalo Public 
Schools, held in connection with the New 
York State Teachers Association convention, 
was really a sewing exhibit without sewing. 
All types of work from the fifth grade through 



high school were shown, together with the 
tools and paraphernalia used, such as charts, 
mounted specimens of raw materials, framed 
collections of processes of manufacture of 
tools and materials, and posters of all kinds. 
These devices form a collection used as a 
circulating library by teachers of domestic 
art who borrow these charts or exhibits for 
use in connection with their regular work. 

The exhibit was divided into several 
sections as follows: raw materials and 
processes of manufacture; the tools used in 
working and labor-saving devices; actual 
articles made by the pupils showing the 
types of work done in all grades; health 
charts and posters; and various phases of the 
development of the home. 

The section devoted to raw materials and 
processes of manufacture consisted of charts, 
mounted exhibits in separate cases showing 
the four fibers commonly used in all stages of 
preparation for use as finished products. 
There were mounted exhibits of pins, needles, 
hooks and eyes, thimbles, scissors, emery 
and carborundum, and buttons, showing 
each step in the manufacture of each of these 
necessities. 

The exhibit of tools and labor-saving 
devices included a model loom made in the 
manual training departments of the Buffalo 
Public Schools; the various types of flat irons 
from the old sad iron to the latest models of 
electric irons, including the recently invented 
Tommy iron used in millinery; standard 
sewing machines, motor attachments, and 
electric portable machines; measuring 
devices; a well equipped box for teacher's 
supplies for ordinary class work; a pupil's 
supply box, a sewing bag, and a small suit 
case used by the older girls for carrying home 
project work. 

In each grade exhibit, there were working 
models of projects for that year; for example, 
a 9th grade middy blouse showing all pro- 
cesses of construction. 

A special exhibit on hygiene illustrated 
the use of posters, mottoes, drawings, and 
quotations in emphasizing the necessity for 
recreation, rest, exercise, diet, and cleanli- 
ness in persons and belongings. Most of 
these were made by teachers, but many 
posters on health were furnished by the 



156 



THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



National Child Welfare Association of New 
York. 

One of the unique features was an exhibit, 
showing the development of the house from 
the primitive to the modem dwelling, and 
including the tree house, the mud hut, the 
stone house, the cliff dwelling, and the log 
cabin. Drawings, scrap books, photographs, 
magazines, and bulletins showed the differ- 
ent types of modem homes. 

The book collection showed good pub- 
lications on all phases of home economics. 
These books are used by both day and even- 
ing teachers. 

The exhibit was the work of Laura M. 
VVeisner, Director of Domestic Art, and her 
assistant, Helen W. Jaeger. 

Summer Courses. There wiU be offered. 
In the summer session (July 10-August 18) 
of Columbia University at Teachers College, 
a six point practicum course entitled "Voca- 
tional Homemaking: Construction of 
Courses for Schools and Teacher Training 
Agencies". Dr. David Snedden, Professor 
of Vocational Education and Educational 
Sociology will administer the course, aided 
by Professors Cooley, Marshall, Sophr, and 
VVinchell in Home Economics. 

The course is designed especially for 
supervisors of teachers and trainers of 
teachers. Chief attention will be given to 
studies of social needs and educational aims 
in the general field, but studies of new prob- 
lems of method — home projects, practice 
housework, cooperative residence work, and 
the like — may be undertaken if desired by 
individual students. Address aU corre- 
spondence, relative to admission, to Dr. 
David Snedden, Teachers College, Columbia 
University, New York City. 

The Junior Red Cross has established 
a S5,000 fund to aid parents in buying glasses 
for their children. Already 200 children 
have been given "new eyes", according to a 
report issued by a local chapter of the Red 
Cross. The fund is self-sustaining, in that 
the children pay back the cost of their 
glasses on the installment plan. 

Own Your Own Home Exposition. — 
The Executive Committee of the Fourth 
Annual Own Your Home Exposition has 
announced that the show will be held in the 



69th Regiment Armory, New York City, 
April 22 to 30. This committee represents 
the architectural, real estate, lumber, and 
paint interests, the savings and loan asso- 
ciations, and the development and sales 
companies. 

A committee has also been formed to aid 
in directing the Exposition to be held in 
Chicago in March. This committee will 
stimulate the "Own Your Home Movement" 
nationally and will be ready to cooperate 
with communities anxious to follow the 
advice of President Harding's Conference on 
Unemployment which went on record at 
Washington as urging a national revival of 
the building industry. At that time the 
Conference issued the statement that the 
greatest area of relief of the unemployment 
situation lay in the construction of more 
homes. There is a country-wide trend 
toward home building because of the reduc- 
tion of building costs over previous building 
costs. 



The Ohio Home Economics Association 
held its winter meeting Wednesday ,Decem- 
ber 28, 1921, in Columbus, in conjunction 
with the Ohio State Teachers Association. 
The meeting was called to order by Mrs. 
Blanche B. Bowers, President. 

At the morning session, Professor J. F. 
Lyman, of Ohio State University gave a 
lecture on "Recent Developments in Human 
Nutrition." Dr. Hopkins, IMedical Advisor 
of the Columbus public schools, summarized 
the work being done by the penny lunches 
through the agency of the Parent-Teachers 
Association. Lucia Johnson, Director of 
Child Welfare, Ohio Institute of Public 
Efficiency, spoke on "Woman's Part in 
Policies, Politics, and Progress." Faith R. 
Lamnan, Head of the Home Economics 
Department, Ohio State University, outlined 
the work being done to encourage the use 
of Ohio wheat. ISIary Sweeny, President of 
the American Home Economics Association, 
addressed the group on the "Professional 
Responsibilities and Opportunities of Home 
Economics Women." 

At the business session it was voted to 
adopt the constitution as reported by the 



1922] 



>fEWS FROM THE FIELD 



157 



constitutional committee, and to affiliate 
with the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion. 

WEST \TRGIN1A 

The Home Economics Section of the 

Vocational Education Society of West 
Virginia met in Huntington in November 
1921. Isabella Wilson of IMarshall College 
was elected chairman for the next year, and 
Eloise Thornburg of Huntington High 
School was continued as Secretary. 

WISCONSIN 

The School Bacteriologist. In order 
to meet emergencies for the protection of 
children against diphtheria the Board of 
Health, Shorewood, Milwaukee, has 
launched an experiment to demonstrate, if 
possible, that the small community need not 
continue in its present position of utter 
helplessness. The home economics teacher, 
supplementing her college course by a short, 
intensive course of training in the labora- 
torj- of a city health department, will become 
also the school bacteriologist. Cultures 
from the promiscuous sore throats will be 
given to her for examination. 

Agnes Olson, a graduate of the Univer- 
sity of Illinois and an experienced teacher of 
home economics, has been engaged to under- 
take this work in the schools of Shorewood. 



Emma H. Gunther and Lydia Ray 
Balderston of Teachers College sailed on 
the S. S. Golden State, January four- 
teenth, to spend the spring in China and 
Japan. Their itinerary will include Hono- 
lulu and Manila. The greater part of the 
time will be spent in Canton, Peking, Shang- 
hai, and Nanking. 

Minna C. Denton, Assistant Chief of 
the Office of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of 
Agriculture, visited Teachers College in 
December and spoke to the classes regard- 
ing the work of that office. 

Susan Blakey, Department of Home 
Economics, University of Missouri, was 
married December 27 to Dr. Colin Goody- 
koontz of Boulder, Colorado. 



Lorraine Steer, formerly of the Uni- 
versity of Missouri, and later an instructor 
at the University of Arkansas, was married 
January 12 to Rex Hayes of Chicago. 

The University of Missouri has 
received a bequest of §50,000 from the estate 
of the late J. K. Gwinn, for the erection of a 
home economics building in memory of his 
wife, a former student. The money vfiH be 
used for the enlargement of the present 
building which will be called the Marie 
Louise Gwinn building. 

The Western Arts Association will 
meet in Cincinnati May 2-5. All who are 
interested in arts, industrial arts, or house- 
hold arts, are urged to attend this conven- 
tion. 



Nursery Schools have been developed 
in England, within the last three years as a 
part of the general educational system. The 
purpose of these schools may be said to be 
somewhat wider in scope than that of the 
American Kindergarten, as they are insti- 
tutions "providing for the care and training 
of young children aged from two to five 
years, whose attendance at such a day 
school is necessary or desirable for their 
healthy physical and mental development. 
Such a school has, therefore, a twofold func- 
tion: first, the close personal care and med- 
ical supervision of the individual chUd, 
involving provision for its comfort, rest, and 
suitable nourishment; and second, definite 
training — bodily, mental, and social — in- 
volving the cultivation of good habits in 
the widest sense, under the guidance and 
oversight of a skilled and intelligent leader, 
and the orderly association of children of 
various ages in common games and occu- 
pations." 

Of the twenty-six schools in operation, 
eight are in London. Unfortunately a 
shortage of funds has hindered the develop- 
ment of the schools, and many of those now 
in existence are financed wholly or in part by 
private funds. One, in London, is entirely 
supported by the London County Council. 

In no case does there seem to be any idea 
of using the Nursery Schools as laboratories, 
except for the training of teachers. However 



158 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



there are regular training schools for nursery 
school teachers. Two particularly inter- 
esting ones are the Gipsy-Hill Training Col- 
lege in London, under the direction of Miss 
De Lissa, and the Manchester College for 
Teachers, under the direction of Miss Grace 
Owen. Miss Owen has written a book 
called "Nursery School Education" which 
was review-ed in the Joijrxal for August, 
1921. 

A Degree in Household Science. 
The only college in great Britain which offers 
a degree in household science is the King's 
College for Women of the University of 
London, of which Dr. Janet Lane-Claypon 
is the director. It takes three years to com- 
plete the course and many of the graduates 
go into the teaching field, though some are 
employed as directors and cooks in institu- 
tional kitchens. There is some discussion 
regarding the possibility of the Edinburgh 
School of Cookery and Domestic Science 
installing such a course in the University 
of Edinburgh. Miss E. D. LaCour is prin- 
cipal of the Edinburgh school. She is 
interested in securing information regarding 
the preparation and content of courses of 
college grade. 

In general the courses offered ia the insti- 
tutes and training schools of Great Britain 
are intended for teachers, and the practical 
side rather than the more theoretical side 
is emphasized. 

Health Visitors. In England the 
interest in health and health education 
brought about by the war has resulted in the 
development of courses designed for 50<alled 
Health Visitors, who resemble in some ways 
our Public Health Nurses. They receive a 
training which is made up of a study of the 
theory of nursing and social science combined 
with some food work — such a course as 
might be given to a Visiting Housekeeper. 
Health Visitors also have some practical 
experience in infant welfare centers and 
similar institutions before they are gradua- 



ted. One of the best examples of this kind 
of course is that given at the Battersea 
Polytechnique Institute, under the direc- 
tion of Miss Biddeleux. 

The International Federation of 
University Women, with which the Amer- 
ican .-Association of University Women is 
affiliated, has its headquarters in London, 
and Miss Theodora Bosanquet not only is 
secretary of the English organization but 
represents the International Federation as 
well. Through Miss Bosanquet, who has 
established connections with members of 
various institutions, college women from the 
United States or other countries are enabled 
to visit any of the universities and colleges 
in England. Letters of introduction sup- 
plied by Miss Bosanquet insure visitors 
receiving every attention. 

Continuation Work. Visitors in Lon- 
don who are interested in continuation work 
should get in communication with Miss 
C. R. Gordon, of the London County Coun- 
cil, Educational Offices, Victoria Embank- 
ment. The most interesting phase of the 
work as developed at present is that carried 
on in the evening schools for women. 

A Conference on Infant Welfare was 
held in London July 5 to 9 under the 
direction of Miss J. Halford, secretary of 
the National League for Health, Maternity, 
and Child Welfare. This conference 
included many visitors from outside Eng- 
land. The published report may now be 
obtained from the office of the League, 4 
Tavistock Square, London, W. C. 1. 

A Child Welfare Conference which 
was supposed to be international in scope 
was held in Brussels July 18 to 21. It was 
attended by representatives from various 
countries. The attendance was rigidly 
limited to persons authorized by various 
governments, who were, in the majority of 
cases, officials. The conference was con- 
ducted in French. 



Vol. XrV, No. 4 April, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Gahmo Bryan, Editor Ketdrah E. Baldwin. Business Editot 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels KAXHARmE Fisher Grace G. Drnmy 

Editor oj "Tke Question Box," Amy Daniels 
Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mildrkd Weicley, Social Wclfareand the Home 
Florence Ward, Extension 

Katharine Bh™t and Sybil Woodruff, Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell avd F.mma Conley, Education 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Mabel Little, Institution Economics 
Alice Biester, Bibliography 

Collaborators— The Officers. Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Relation of the Extension- Specialist to the Resident Staff in Home Economics 

A. R. Mann 159 

Oi-R Campus Tea Room Eda Lord Murphy 168 

The Basal Metabolism and Food Consumption of Undervveight College Women 

Katharine Blunt and Virginia Bauer 171 

Current Home Economics Research The Research Committee 181 

For the Homemaker 

Making a Success Out of Family Liit. 183 

The Question Box 186 

Editorial 187 

The Open Forum 18'' 

Books and Literature 193 

News from the Field . . 197 

Special Train to Corvallis .197 



The Jootujai. of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
J2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN AND CANADIAN $2.75. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender s risk. 

NOTICE. When payment it made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Th« JotiSNAL OT Home Ecohohics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Botton; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago: Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECOXOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



IN all recipes calling 
for baking powder, 
insure successful re- 
sults by using Royal 
Baking Powder (abso- 
lutely pure 



It is conceded by do- 
mestic science teachers 
and baking experts the 
world over to be "the 
most healthful and 
dependable baking 
powder made." Royal 
contains no alum. 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV APRIL, 1922 No. 4 

THE RELATION OF THE EXTENSION SPECLALIST TO THE 
RESIDENT STAFF IN HOME ECONOMICS' 

A. R. MAKN 
Dean of the College of Agriculture, Cornell University 

In the first years of extension teaching as an activity of the land-grant 
colleges, the work was done by persons whose chief duty was the teaching 
of students and the conduct of investigations or experiments at the insti- 
tution. The primary purpose of the meetings about the state was 
literally to extend the teachings of the college to the persons on farms 
and in farm homes who could not otherwise gain the benefits from direct 
contact with those who had special opportunities for studying, with the 
aid of science, the problems of the land. There was then no question of 
relationships, harmony in subject matter, keeping abreast, and the 
kindred problems which trouble administrators and teachers today. In 
most cases, the complete course, from the experiment which revealed 
new facts, through the classroom and out to the farms, was embodied in 
a single individual. In theory, at least, this unity of discovery and 
impartation of knowledge approached the ideal. It added authority to 
resident and extension teaching. While it had obvious limitations, it also 
had advantages which are not entirely compensated for in the methods 
developed later. It is in the recovery of these advantages, to whatever 
degree may be possible, that the present-day problem in part lies. 

The division of labor. The division of labor occasioned by the segrega- 
tion of work and workers into the three compartments of teaching, 

' Abridged form of an address presented at the Meeting of the Home Economics Section 
of the -Association of Land-Grant Colleges, New Orleans, November, 1921. The full article 
will be found in the 1921 Proceedings of the Association of Land-Grant Colleges. 

159 



160 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (April 

research, and extension, respectively, which generally characterize the 
land-grant institutions today, was an inevitable consequence of the 
growth of each of the three primary methods of agricultural progress by 
means of education. It was encouraged by legal enactments in various 
states, and it was immensely forwarded by the passage of the federal 
Smith-Lever Act, with its large endowments which could be applied only 
to the maintenance of cooperative extension work in agriculture and 
home economics, necessitating the appointment or assignment of persons 
to engage only in nonresident teaching and demonstrations. On the 
whole, the change has unquestionably been highly beneficial to all three 
lines, and has been an important contributing cause to their more 
recent rapid advance. Increasing speciahzation is at once a means and 
a result of progress. But it cannot always be defended as an unqualified 
advantage. Its complete realization has, in the present instance, 
involved sacrifices on the part of each of the three divisions of what is 
fxmdamentaUy one great task of increasing human knowledge in the 
broad fields of agriculture and home economics. 

Without attempting to go into all the questions which this division 
of labor has created, we are here concerned only with those that affect 
the extension specialist in her relation to the resident division having to 
do with the same field of knowledge. 

Basic to the whole problem of relationships is the consideration of the 
function of the specialist with reference to extending the teachings of the 
institution, or, as this has been interpreted to mean, the subject matter 
as formulated and vouched for by the resident and research staffs. What 
is the imphed responsibility, and what are the facts in the situation? 

The purpose to extend the teachings of the institution. Historically, the 
development of agricultural education in the United States was, in 
general terms, first, the organization of institutions for teaching agricul- 
ture and the mechanic arts; second, the establishment of experiment 
stations for the acquisition of knowledge; and third, provision for carry- 
ing the knowledge supposedly accumulated at the institutions to persons 
resident in the localities throughout the states. The colleges and stations 
had been at work for some time, and had made really notable progress, 
before a widespread demand arose that their accumulations of knowl- 
edge should be carried to the people by more speedy and direct means 
than the slow infiltration of agricultural college students and the unin- 
spiring perusal of bulletins which were received with a measure of dis- 
trust. The discussions preceding and attending the passage of the 



1922] RELATION OF EXTENSION SPECIALIST TO RESIDENT STAFF 161 

Smith-Lever Act dealt largely with the consideration that the land- 
grant coUeges and the United States Department of Agriculture had 
made large advances in knowledge which had not yet found their way 
to the rank and file of American farmers, who would undoubtedly benefit 
by the utilisation of much of it in their practice. The specific demand 
was for a means of "extending" the findings of college and station to the 
people beyond their immediate confines. It was assimied to be the 
province of the resident and research staffs to accimiulate and organize 
the knowledge, and of the new agencies to carry it out. The organiza- 
tion of the extension work must be such as to accompKsh this purpose. 
This means that there must be a close union, not an occasional conference 
nor merely a cordial attitude, between the extension specialists and the 
resident teachers and investigators. 

The need for the specialist in the organization of extension service. In a 
few places the need for extension speciahsts is not fully accepted, the 
assumption being that the county agents or home demonstration agents 
can fully meet the needs. This indicates an immature development of 
extension service. The agents in the counties stand as "first aids," and 
can take care of most of the routine or more simple and elementary 
matters. For the most part their equipment consists of practical ex- 
perience, and seldom more than an undergraduate course in home 
economics. Their time is fully occupied in doing things. Progress in 
home economics subject matter is going forward somewhat rapidly, and 
at best these agents can visit the points of largest accumulation only 
infrequently and for brief periods. For the most part they render ex- 
cellent service, but they are generahsts, not specialists. Farmers and 
farm women are increasingly needing and in many places demanding the 
aid of specialists. The successful agent will create a greater demand 
for specialists to maintain a strong, progressive work. 

The status of the extension specialist. It is no reflection on the exten- 
sion specialist to assert that she must depend in an important degree on 
the resident teaching and research divisions for the means of keeping 
informed on current progress in the field of knowledge. The persons in 
these divisions dwell at the point of accumulation, and the energies of the 
institution are devoted to providing them with the time, facilities, 
libraries, and equipments to enable them to make original contributions 
to knowledge and to place immediately at their disposal the most reUable 
reports of progress made elsewhere. 



162 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

On the other hand, extension teaching, by its very nature, carries 
one away from these sources, and places the specialist in an atmosphere 
where empirical knowledge predominates. The inconveniences of 
constant traveling do not encourage or admit of the best habits of study. 
The opportunities for original research on the part of the individual are 
practically non-existent; and the tendency of the federal authorities to 
urge that persons engaged in the cooperative extension service shall 
give full and undivided attention to extension, the rigid insistence that 
persons paid from the Lever funds shall never, on those funds, engage 
in any investigations whatsoever, even in simple tests or trials which 
have for their purpose checking or verifying supposed facts to the 
satisfaction of the specialist prior to their utilization for general demon- 
strations, and the further insistence that the specialists can, as Smith- 
Lever employees, demonstrate only what is assumed to have reached the 
stage of settled fact at the hands of other workers establish the ideal that 
extension specialists shall be avowedly second-hand teachers. The 
resident teacher, surrounded as she is with every incentive to growth, 
seldom, if ever, attains a foremost place if she engages in no investiga- 
tions on her own account. The extension specialist is, in the nature of 
the case, doubly handicapped. In the long run this is likely to prove to 
be the most embarrassing problem in the whole extension service, 
because of the difficulty of combining the two types of effort. 

Observation indicates that the turnover in extension specialists is 
unduly rapid. In my own experience, the highest-grade persons whom 
we seek to engage as specialists have an increasing tendency to urge 
that they do not care to accept appointment unless permitted to do some 
resident teaching or research, or are assured of adequate periods for' 
study. We are very rapidly passing from the time when the most 
valuable specialists will be content to engage continuously in field work, 
or when the advancing demands of farmers and farm women can be 
satisfied by persons who allow themselves to be removed from fre- 
quent, direct, and intimate association with the sources of expanding 
knowledge. The problem becomes a triplicate one of keeping the 
specialists abreast, keeping them content in their important work so 
that their tenure of service will be long, and enabling them to meet 
adequately the constantly enlarging horizon of fanners and farm women. 

The qualifications oj the individual. The first condition is to have the 
right kind of specialist. The fundamental training and the study habits 
and characteristics of the individual are the best guarantee as to whether 
she will keep in touch with the progress of knowledge in her field. No 



1922] RELATION OF EXTENSION SPECIALIST TO RESIDENT STAFF 163 

one should be appointed as an extension specialist who is not in every 
way qualiiied for appointment to the college faculty. No form of 
organization or other expedient will compensate for lack of zeal and 
capacity for technical and professional development on the part of the 
specialist herself. The greater and more sustained the zeal, the less 
will be the problem, whatever the form of organization. 

The form of organization. The form of organization is, however, very 
important. Taking the country as a whole, we find: (1) institutions 
where teaching, research, and extension are all developed in a single 
department of home economics under a single administrative head; (2) 
institutions where the extension specialists are organized wholly apart 
from and coordinate with the resident division, the two, however, having 
no official relationship; (3) institutions where there exists an extension 
organization in home economics, but no resident teaching nor research 
work in the subject, the resident work being established, if at all, at a 
separate state institution. What is to be done as regards the specialists, 
under these various circumstances? Let us consider these in reverse 
order : 

1. We have the situation in which there exists at the land-grant 
college only an extension organization in home economics, with no 
resident work whatever at the same institution. I say without qualifica- 
tion that under such circumstances the efforts should be unremitting to 
obtain the means for establishing a full-fledged resident department of 
home economics at the institution. If the land-grant colleges are to 
maintain extension in home economics, as the Smith-Lever Act charges 
them to do, the prerequisite to success is the establishment in the colleges 
of strong resident departments. Extension cannot remain vital where 
there is nothing to extend beyond the original equipment of the exten- 
sion specialists. 

2. Where the extension service is organized wholly independently 
of the resident division in the same institution, with no organic relation 
other than that they are both parts of the same college, this condition 
would seem to find its explanation in one of four causes: 

The first cause is the circumstance of origin. In a few cases it is 
undoubtedly true that the separation is due to the fact that the divisions 
were organized at separate times and under separate administrations. 
In the earlier years they may have done well separately. In the long 
pull, they will do better with an intimate relationship. The circum- 
stance of independent origin is not of itself a valid reason for retaining 
organic separation. 



164: THE JOUKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

A second cause, which has something to support it, is administrative 
convenience in having the speciahsts organized about the office of the 
director of extension, so that program making and field assignments 
may be more readily handled. However, I am firmly of the opinion 
that, in the long run, problems of administrative convenience will be 
less trying than those of the maintenance of professional standing. The 
unit of organization should be the subject matter, not the machinery 
for getting it out. 

A third cause for the separation, which is sometimes continued where 
deliberate judgment dictates that it really should be otherwise, is fear on 
the part of the extension director and the extension specialists that the 
speciahsts wiU be so dominated by the resident staff or the head of the 
resident department that the extension service will actually suffer. 
There have been occasions for this fear. Such a situation is inimical to 
good extension work. The speciahst must have, and should eagerly 
seek, the aid of the resident staff in planning her work and formulating 
subject matte'". She lays herself open to real danger of error in teaching 
if she does not freely consult the resident workers in the same field. But 
if, in the interest of maintaining either superior position or hannony in 
subject matter, dictation is resorted to, the arrangement fails. A 
fundamental consideration is equality of recognition and standing, and 
the assumption of equivalent general capacities. 

A fourth cause, which has perhaps had some bearing, is fear that the 
head of the resident division will desire to exercise the full power of 
selection of extension speciahsts without a sufficient appreciation of the 
particular quaUties that make for success in extension teaching. It 
must not be overlooked, however, that selection by the director of exten- 
sion alone is open to fully as great danger from the standpoint of tech- 
nical quahtications. The only protection from danger on either hand is 
an arrangement that amoimts to joint selection by the head of the 
department and the director of extension. 

3 . In the best organization, teaching, research, and extension in the 
given field of knowledge will all be organized at the same institution in a 
single department, and the teaching and research will have at least 
coordinate development with the extension; preferably greater develop- 
ment, so as to keep constantly ahead of the demands in practice. The 
resident department will be responsible for subject matter, the programs 
will be matters of joint conference, and the field assignments will be 
largely or entirely in the hands of the extension service, but always with 
full consultation with the specialists affected. 



1922] RELATION OF EXTENSION SPECL\LIST TO RESIDENT ST.4PF 165 

We must not omit another important reason for establishing the most 
intimate relations between resident and extension workers, namely, that 
the resident staff may know the viewpoint of the field and keep in touch 
with practical and public affairs, and that the specialist may always 
retain the viewpoint and the poise of the institution, careful as to facts 
and sensitive to the limitations of her function as a teacher, so as not 
to become a mere advocate of class or partisan views or be carried 
away by temporary moods or prejudices of those with whom she must 
constantly deal. Extension service everywhere has suffered from 
occasional, if not frequent, lapses from the standards that should always 
control educational workers. 

Special provisions. The problem is not fully solved, however, when 
well-trained specialists have been engaged and have been estabhshed 
in an organization that provides the most intimate official relations with 
the resident teaching and research staffs. This condition obtains at 
some of our institutions and the situation is not thereby fully met. The 
pressing demands of the field operate to defeat the advantages which the 
organization contemplates unless conscious provision is made to promote 
frequent conference among the workers, to bring them into touch with 
whatever investigations may be in progress, and to allow periods for 
uninterrupted study and organization of new material. This con- 
scious provision at the institutions takes many forms: individual con- 
ferences with the particular resident worker best able to give help on 
the problem in hand; stated weekly or monthly conferences, in which a 
definite aim is to discuss the problems that have arisen in extension, in 
resident teaching, and in research, and to review the latest acquisitions 
of knowledge; keeping specialists free from field assignments for certain 
days of the week or certain weeks in the month, or for longer periods, in 
the hope that they will find time to contemplate the recent contributions; 
granting temporary leaves of absence, with or without salary, for purposes 
of study or investigation ; arrangements to carry a limited amount of 
teaching from time to time, or provision for the prosecution of limited 
projects in research which admit of intermittent attention; financing 
specialists to attend summer schools; encouraging specialists to register 
for advanced degrees; attaching specialists to departmental seminars; 
identification of specialists with scientific societies within the institution; 
preparation of material for specialists by the resident staft'; special 
arrangements with members of the resident staff to test problems en- 
countered by the field worker; and the granting of sabbatic leaves of 
absence, with salary, for professional and technical improvement. 



166 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The contribution of the specialist to resident teaching and research. It 
would be quite unfair to omit mention of the reverse aspect of the ques- 
tion, namely, the benefits that accrue to the resident teaching and re- 
search ofhcers from their association with a good extension worker. The 
classroom and the scientific laboratory are the primary means of prog- 
ress in many respects, but they are not always infallible, and in fre- 
quent cases they do not afford the check that is possible only by field 
trial under normal circumstances and under widely varying conditions. 
When a new method or practice is committed to the extension worker for 
demonstration and application, it is likely to come up against the final 
and severest test as to its soundness. The specialist thus makes im- 
portant contributions both to knowledge and to practice. 

The specialist, if she is observant, will frequently aid the station by 
discovering the need for experimental verification of much that has long 
been accepted in practice as the right thing to do. The specialist is at 
the most sensitive point of contact to discover practices that need 
verification, or problems that need illumination. 

The specialist makes her contribution both to teaching and to re- 
search. Some of the most helpful things introduced into the resident 
courses are the result of suggestions brought in from the field, but the 
contributions to teaching methods are probably as great as, if not 
greater than, the contributions to subject matter. Resident teaching 
has usually proceeded from the abstract to the concrete; from the state- 
ment of the principle to its elucidation by details of practice. The ex- 
tension teacher proceeds from the concrete to the fundamental facts that 
lie back of it; from the practice to the principles that explain and justify 
the practice. The classroom audience, largely inexperienced and 
therefore lacking an essential to ripe judgment, will remain and receive 
with apparent respect and usually without challenge what the teacher 
sets forth. The farm audience, whose equipment is chiefly experience, 
passes judgment, gives voice to challenges, and goes home if the teaching 
does not interest and convince. One specialist describes the extension 
method as more psychological than logical, and the resident method as 
the reverse. The extension method is and must be both. The teach- 
ing methods thus developed with mature but less-trained minds, tiave 
certain values for the classroom and the immature but more highly 
trained minds; and the resident teacher who has intimate contact with 
a good extension specialist, consciously or unconsciously is likely to 
modify her classroom procedure in some respects by the incorporation 
of methods which the specialist has set into her mind. 



1922] RELATION OF EXTEXSION SPECIALIST TO RESIDENT STAFF 167 

The future oj the extension specialist. A phase of the question which will 
bear no overlooking is, what is to be the future of the extension specialist? 
It is too early to give an exact answer to this question, but the indications 
are strong that the trend will be steadily toward a demand for persons 
who have superior technical and scientific training and who will stand 
very close to the research in the field. There will always be need for a 
certain amount of elementary work in the extension field ; but as farmers 
and farm women progress, as they are progressing, and as the vocational 
schools do their work under the Smith-Hughes Act, the requirements 
will become increasingly exacting. That institution is wise and forward- 
looking which is today seeking for appointment as extension specialists, 
persons not only with practical sense but also with advanced training or 
station experience or its equivalent, and with highly developed habits of 
study. The specialist of the future will be in a larger and truer sense a 
specialist, to aid and advise on the more difficult problems. She will be 
less a second-hand teacher. She will demand every opportunity and 
facility to keep abreast of progress in her field, and, if I mistake not, 
will require arrangements that will make possible her own independent 
examination and solution of some of the problems that arise in her work. 
This means either that she will be less exclusively an extension specialist, 
or that she will have much more time for personal improvement than the 
present arrangements afford. 

In order to develop or to engage and hold the type of persons that will 
be increasingly needed as the work matures, there are demanded the 
fullest comradeship, equality of recognition, mutual respect, equal 
opportunities for study, and intimate, cordial association, between the 
extension specialists and the members of the resident staff. 



168 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

OUR CAMPUS TEA ROOM 



[April 



EDA LORD MURPHY 



Iowa State College 



We like to talk about our campus tea room because it is still compara- 
tively new and because it has been developing slowly but surely. It 
is now firmly established and we hope that it will become more and 
more a college asset. 

There was an insistent demand for a class in large quantity cookery, 
and in the fall of 1918 the first small class began preparing luncheons 
for about twenty faculty women, who were glad to be able to get a hot 
lunch so conveniently. In a very short time it was necessary to move 
into a larger room where forty could be served. Before many weeks 
passed, members of faculties of other divisions, both men and women, 
were asking to be allowed to come. We warned the men that the 
luncheons were rather "ladylike," but quite a number continue to be 
our loyal patrons. 

From the very begiiming we have prided ourselves on an interesting 
variety in our menus. We have never repeated one in toto. The com- 
plaints are in this wise, "Oh, enjoy this now for you may never have it 
again." It has taught patrons as well as students the infinite possi- 
bilities in ordinary foods. This has, no doubt, been easier because 
students rather than employees do the cooking. The charge for the 
luncheon is thirty-five cents. The following are typical menus: 



Fall Winter 

Potato soup Escalloped tomatoes 

Orange salad French fried potatoes 
Graham bread and Caramel custard 

butter Bread and butter 

Date cakes Tea or milk 
Tea or milk 



Spring Summer 

Creamed eggs on Cheese and prune 

toast salad 

Asparagus on lettuce, Brown bread and 

French dressing butter 

Pineapple ice Cherry shortcake and 

Sand tarts cream 

Tea or milk Iced cocoa 



Occasionally, to break the monotony, we give a choice of two vege- 
tables or an opportunity to order a French omelet or wafiies ! Ordinarily, 
the luncheon is table d'hote and substitutions are not often asked. Since 
foods have become cheaper, we give the choice of milk or tea, and pro- 
vide plenty of bread and butter. We plan to have very httle meat 
because nearly all the faculty have dinner at night. We give them 
coffee as an occasional treat, especially when the making of doughnuts 
gives us a good excuse; ordinarily we serve only tea or milk. 



1922] OUR CAMPUS TEA ROOM 169 

The very name of Tea Room has grown to mean a place with "atmos- 
phere" and with furnishings that are unique. Often these ideals have 
been more important than the quality of the food and service. We 
have aimed at an "atmosphere" of fresh air, restfulness, and genuine 
welcome; equipment and furnishings are only a means to the end of 
serving uniformly delicious foods in an attractive way. 

The ten tables and forty chairs are black enamel, the china of the 
Old Haarlem pattern, the silver heavily plated and hammered. We 
use paper doilies and paper napkins. The centerpieces are glass finger 
bowls with two or three real flowers, usually calendulas because they 
fit our color scheme best, last well, and are comparatively cheap. The 
curtains, designed by students, are very decorative with a stunning 
pattern in gay applique on airplane linen. There is "One picture on 
each wall, not many things at all." The room has walls and ceihng of 
beaver board and the woodwork is common pine. These are finished 
with a soft gray stain which gives the quiet background so necessary 
where there are many people. The orange in the flower design on the 
curtains, with the touch of black in the stems of the tall hollyhocks, is 
repeated by the orange of the calendulas on the black tables, and is 
echoed, one might say, in the Jules Guerin prints. Two black-enameled 
serving tables and a desk for the cashier complete the dining-room 
furnishings. 

In the laboratory we wanted high ovens and in order to obtain them 
we bought two gas ranges with ovens at opposite ends, rather than a 
larger range with one low oven. We placed them back to back and 
have plenty of burners and oven space too. The work tables have 
nickel legs and heavy oak tops. The vegetable sink proved to be of 
absorbent material which show-ed grease spots. The idea finally oc- 
curred to us to grease it all over and make it uniformly black. This 
with a thin coat of varnish makes an almost beautiful sink! The pan 
rack over the work table gives an "institutional" air to the kitchen as 
do the large aluminum and retinned steel cooking utensils. We have 
ample space for pantries and store room. In every way the equipment 
is conservative. 

But even good equipment and good food will not make a tea room suc- 
cessful. The students are made to realize that business management, 
plus volume of trade, are essentials. 

The method of book keeping is very simple and, as far as possible, 
is done by the students. The difl'erences between a tea room such as 



170 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

ours (not run for profit) and a real business are made clear. But prin- 
cipally, in this course, we emphasize menu making for various kinds of 
institutions, quantities for fifty, kitchen management and technique, 
standards of quality, cooking for profit, standardization of portions, 
and so on. 

It early became apparent that the tea room ought to be used by more 
people than could possibly come for luncheon; so we opened it for the 
serving of afternoon tea, between 4 and 5 o'clock. At first we made the 
mistake of calling it the "Home Economics Tea Room," and limiting 
its use to seniors and faculty. It is now known as "The Campus Tea 
Room," and is open to all college people. Men, as well as women, en- 
joy the good sandwiches, and the delicious cakes and drinks. It is 
the custom now for committees to make plans over the teacups, for 
visitors to be told "not to fail to see the Tea Room," for groups of all 
kinds and descriptions to use it. Freshmen, sophomores, juniors, sen- 
iors, faculty men and women, young and old, have "discovered" the 
place and made use of it. We feel that we are paying the best kind of 
dividends on the money invested. As a matter of fact, it must carry 
itself financially, and it does. 

The work in the afternoon is done by students paid at the rate of thirty- 
five cents an hour. It is directed by some one from the institutional 
classes and she is assisted by others. We never have any trouble even 
to get dish washers, and the whole staff have the greatest pride in the 
financial success of our enterprise. 

It is far more than a place to obtain food. People say that it is 
restful; that after a cup of tea they can go back to work if necessary; 
that they are glad to have a place to meet and to entertain each other 
and guests; that those from other divisions feel much better acquainted 
with our division; that there is a gentle influence that is unconsciously 
regarded when students and faculty meet in this informal way. We 
like to think that these things are true and that while a comparatively 
small number are receiving training (the present class numbers twenty) 
a much larger nimiber are receiving the benefits and pleasures of "The 
Campus Tea Room." 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF UNDERUT;iGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 171 

THE BASAL METABOLISM AND FOOD CONSUMPTION 
OF UNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 

KATHARINE BLUNT AND VIRGINIA BAUER 

The University of Chicago 

How prevalent is underweight among college women? Does the under- 
weight college woman have a normal basal metabolism and does she consume 
enough food? It was to secure some light on these questions that the investi- 
gation described in this paper was undertaken. The points taken up are: 
first, the standards of weight for young women and the extent and harm of 
underweight; second, the effect of underweight on basal metabolism as seen 
in data already published and in our own observations on a group of under- 
weight college women; and third, observations on the food consumption of 
this underweight group. 

UNDERWEIGHT AMONG YOUNG WOMEN 

Standards of Weight for Young Women. The commonly used standards 
of weight for adults are those gathered by life insurance companies by averag- 
ing the weights and heights of the individuals whom they accept for life 
insurance. Those for women are based on 136,504 policies, including 53,487 
for women between 20 and 29 years of age. They were published (1) in 
1912 in the Medico-Actuarial Mortality Investigation, Volume I, p. 66. The 
summary is here reproduced in Table I. 

These figures are quoted, among others, in greater detail by Joslin in "A 
Diabetic Manual" and in less detail by Fisher and Fisk in "How to Live," 
and have become the standard for all comparisons. They differ slightly 
from those given by Mrs. Rose in "Feeding the Family," most of her weights 
being a pound or two lower. Unfortunately for scientific experiments, the 
figures are for women in indoor clothing, including shoes, rather than nude. 
The women students in our investigation were weighed nude and measured 
without shoes. The importance of this difference, however, is not so great 
as it would seem at first sight, particularly for computing the percentage of 
underweight. A difference of two inches in height in the insurance table 
corresponds usually to four pounds in weight; and two inches and four pounds 
are fair averages for heights of women's heels and weights of women's clothing. 
That is, the shift in the table is the same in making both corrections. In 
computing percentages of underweight, very little error is therefore introduced 
if the nude individuals and those from the life insurance tables are compared 
directly. 

When the tables are used for persons over 30, the warning must be kept in 
mind that the average person tends to grow too fat with increasing years. 



172 



THE JOUEKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



"We should endeavor to keep our weight at approximately the average 
weight for age 30, the period of full maturity, as experience shows that those 
so proportioned exhibit the most favorable mortality." 



TABLE 1 

Build — Women 

Graded Average Weight 



AGE GROUP 


4 ft. 

8 IN. 


4 FT. 
9 IN. 


4 FT. 

10 m. 


4 ft 
11 IN. 


5 ft. 


5 FT. 
llN. 


Sft. 

2 IN. 


5 ft. 

3 IN. 


5 FT. 
4 IN. 


15-19 


104 


106 


108 


110 


112 


114 


117 


120 


123 


20-24 


107 


109 


111 


113 


115 


117 


120 


123 


126 


25-29 


110 


112 


114 


116 


118 


120 


122 


125 


129 


30-34 


113 


115 


117 


119 


121 


123 


125 


128 


132 


35-39 


116 


118 


120 


122 


124 


126 


129 


132 


136 


40-44 


120 


122 


124 


126 


128 


130 


133 


136 


139 


45-49 


123 


125 


127 


129 


131 


133 


136 


139 


142 


50-54 


125 


127 


129 


131 


133 


135 


138 


141 


144 



AGE GROUP 


Sft. 

5lN. 


5 FT. 

6 IN. 


5 ft. 

7 IN. 


5 ft. 

8 IN. 


Sft. 

9 IN. 


5 ft. 

10 IN. 


Sft. 

11 IN. 


6 ft. 


15-19 


126 


130 


134 


138 


141 


145 


150 


155 


20-24 


129 


133 


137 


141 


145 


149 


153 


157 


25-29 


132 


136 


140 


144 


148 


152 


155 


159 


30-34 


136 


140 


144 


148 


152 


155 


158 


162 


35-39 


140 


144 


148 


152 


156 


159 


162 


165 


40-44 


143 


147 


151 


155 


159 


162 


166 


169 


45-49 


146 


151 


155 


159 


163 


166 


170 


173 


50-54 


148 


152 


157 


162 


166 


170 


174 


177 



Prevalence and Ejfed of Underweight Among Young Women. There seems 
to be very little definite knowledge as to the prevalence of underweight among 
young women; extensive studies such as those made among school children 
are entirely lacking. That underweight is common is indicated by the fact 
that the physician to women in the University of Chicago reports that 150 out 
of 500 women entering the University in the autumn quarter, 1920, were 10 per 
cent or more underweight for their height. 

Another striking example of the extent of underweight may be taken from 
the observations of Harris and Benedict (2) in "A Biometric Study of Basal 
MetaboUsm." They list studies made at the Nutrition Laboratory on 103 
supposedly normal women, 66 of whom were under 30 years of age and 
therefore comparable with our young women. If the weights and heights of 
these 66 are compared with the life insurance table, it is found that 23 or 
two-fifths are 10 per cent or more underweight. 

More is known about the harmfulness of underweight than about the 
extent. Insurance companies have long recognized that the underweight 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF XJNDER\VEIGHT COLLEGE WOilEN 173 

young person is a poorer "risk" than the overweight one. Their figures 
showing this fact for young men are given in Table II which is quoted from 
the second volume of the Medico-Actuarial Investigation (1). They estimate 
that for certain ages there will be so many deaths per thousand young men 
insured. They call this number 100 per cent. They really find, as shown in 
the table, that there are many more deaths among the underweight young 
men than among the overweight. For example the deaths of the men 25 per 
cent underweight are 34 per cent more numerous than the average rate, and 
for young men 25 per cent overweight only 3 per cent more numerous. Or, 
to express the same thing in another way, a young man of average weight 
and one as much as 25 per cent overweight have about an equal chance of 
life; but one as little as 10 per cent underweight has 13 per cent more chances 
of dying. The report says similar figures have been found to be true for 
young women. These are rather surprising facts and indicate strongly that 
the underweight young person is not a well or a normal one. 



Per cent of Actual to Expected Deaths According to Percentage Variation from Average Weight 
Men between the Ages of 20 and 29 



AGE 


-30 


-25 


-20 


-IS 


-10 


- 5 


Av. 


+ 5 


+ 10 


+ 15 

100 
100 


+ 20 

101 
104 


+ 25 

103 
107 


+ 30 

106 
111 


+ 35 


20-24 
25-29 


141 
128 


134 
122 


127 
117 


120 
112 


113 
106 


107 
102 


104 
100 


100 
98 


99 
97 


109 
115 



On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that overweight also has its 
dangers, especially, as emphasized by Joslin (3), that of diabetes, which is 
"largely a penalty of obesity, and the greater the obesity the more likely is 
nature to enforce it." It is the young person that is in danger from under- 
weight and the middle aged to elderly person that is in danger from over- 
weight. 

General Characteristics of Underweight Young Women as Illustrated by our 
Subjects. Nineteen underweight young women served as subjects for the 
metaboHsra and diet observations given in this paper, ranging from 11 per 
cent to 26 per cent below the Life insurance standards. The majority of 
them were obtained through the Physical Education Department of the 
University in the fall of 1920-21, by the cooperation of Florence McArtle 
to whom the underweight women students were at that time reporting, and 
to whom our appreciative thanks are due, as weU as to the subjects them- 
selves. Especially characteristic of almost all of the girk were nervousness, 
restlessness, and a more or less high-strung condition. Most of them tired 
easily and worried much about their work, and some alternated periods of 
intensity with periods of marked listlessness. On the whole they were dis- 
tinctly below par in general appearance and behavior and did not seem like 



174 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

normal, vigorous girls, though as the result of a physical examination of all 
but one, they had been pronounced normal except for their underweight. 
They were all rather serious-minded and sensible young women, and with one 
exception were not inclined toward many social events, thus eliminating the 
factor of the excess energy often demanded for such things. 

Although most of them were not in the Home Economics Department, they 
were interested and were willing to cooperate. One of the writers became 
fairly well acquainted with them all and observed their habits and tendencies 
as much as possible. A few of the most striking individual characteristics 
are listed below. 

No. 1. Extremely restless, bad posture. 

No. 2. Aunt said "she's a live wire" — high strung, worries. 

No. 3. Rather languid, but ambitious, was gaining a little. 

No. 4. Very restless, although not energetic, always tired. 

No. 5. Studies hard, very energetic and restless. 

No. 6. Extremely nervous, excitable, always seems to be doing something new. 

No. 7. Highly excitable, looks very well, has red cheeks. Does a good deal of labo- 
ratory work. 

No. 8. Has had difficult time as freshman, her aunt said she could not be still even when 
asleep. 

No. 9. Has never gained weight since she had the flu, fairly restless. 

No. 10. Fidgets continually although she goes at things composedly, has lost some weight 
recently. 

No. 11. Good deal of laboratory work in chemistry. 

No. 12. Listless, says she usually does not feel well. 

No. 13. Unambitious, does not want to gain. 

No. 14. Too much study and worry, quiet and retiring disposition, has lost considerable 
weight. 

No. IS. Very nervous, tires easily, stays up too late. 

No. 16. Restless, much week-end frivolity and late hours, losing slightly. 

No. 17. Worried about work, late bed time, no appetite, losing weight. 

No. 18. Extremely high strung, too little fresh air, losing weight. 

No. 19. Very active and ambitious. Her friend said, "She's in for anything." 

BASAL METABOLISM 

One of the points about which we wished to secure information was whether 
the basal metabolism of such underweight young women as these 19 was 
normal or not. If it should be found high their underweight might be partially 
explained by their excessive food need to meet the extra metabolism; and if 
low they might be said to be living on an abnormally low nutritional plane. 

Already Published Data on Basal Metabolism of Underweight Individuals. 
There is not a great deal in the literature to lead one to anticipate whether the 
basal metabolism of our students would be normal or not. Semi-starved 
individuals are reported as having distinctly low metabolism. For example, 
Lusk (4) quoting from Magnus-Levy, tells of a neurasthenic boy who prac- 
tically starved himself before coming to the hospital, and ■while on his low 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF LTNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 175 

diet in an extremely emaciated condition with his weight at only 36.2 kilos, 
his basal metabohsm per square meter was 33 per cent below normal. On a 
Hberal diet with his weight at 38 kilos the heat production was still 17 per 
cent below; but ten weeks later with his weight increased to 52 kilos the 
metabolism had gone to 2 per cent above normal. "It is evident," saysLusk, 
"that the reduction of the weight of a man by 30 per cent may lead to a 
reduction in his requirement of energy by 44 per cent, a factor of conserva- 
tion." Lusk in his recent paper on "The Physiological Effect of Undernutri- 
tion" (5) also discusses the experiences of the two physiologists Zuntz and 
Loewy who both suffered extremely from their much restricted food intake 
during the war. Loewy's weight decreased from 65 kilos in 1914 to 57 kilos 
in 1916, and his metabolism from 1429 calories to 1169 calories daily — a 
much greater percentage decrease in metabolism than in weight. Zuntz's 
experience was similar. For both, then, low dietary and emaciation resulted 
in a much decreased metabolism, a distinct slowing up of body functioning. 
They were of course losing nitrogen constantly from their bodies.' 

Interesting in this connection of semi-starvation is the study of Benedict 
and his associates (6) on the group of young college men who were put on a 
restricted diet for almost five months, their food intake being reduced prac- 
tically one-third. In the first few weeks they lost on the average ten per cent 
of their body weight and then held this weight on the continued low food 
intake. They, too, showed a greater lowering of metabolism than of weight, 
their average heat production per kilo at the beginning being 25.2 calories 
and at the end 22.3 calories. Their metabolism, if compared with the Harris 
and Benedict standard, averaged 1.1 per cent above at the beginning and 14.6 
per cent below at the end. Benedict particularly calls attention to the fact 
that these men were in continual negative nitrogen balance, averaging a total 
loss of 175 gms. nitrogen from their bodies during the five months. He sug- 
gests that since nitrogen compounds act as a stimulus to cellular activity, the 
loss of nitrogen from body tissue at least in part caused this lowering of the 
metabolism. It is interesting to find, from Benedict's comparison of the 
weights and heights of these young men at the time of their mininum weight 
with the life insurance standards, that only one was more than 10 per cent 
below. That is, they were not excessively thin, but they had lost much 
weight and had lowered their basal metabolism. 

In all these cases it appears that extreme malnutrition, with low food intake 
and loss of nitrogen from the body, is the cause of the low metabohsm rather 
than the low weight itself. 

On the other hand, in contrast to these cases of extreme malnutrition with 
low metabolism, an ordinary thin person may show a higher metabohsm per 

' Toward the end of the war when Loewy's endogenous protein metabolism had become 
very extreme his metabolism went up again. 



176 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

kilo than a very fat person, though not necessarily a higher metabohsm per 
square meter of surface. The much quoted example, cited by Lusk (4), of the 
fat and thin brothers, aged 10 and 11 respectively, with 33 pounds difference in 
their weights is an illustration of this point. The metabolism per kilo of the 
thin boy was 17 per cent higher than his fat brother, but per square meter it 
was only 2 per cent lower. Similarly, and often to a greater extent, the 
metabolism of underweight children has been found (7) to be distinctly higher 
than that of normal ones. The adipose tissue of the fat person is not actively 
metabolizing and at the same time it possibly may serve to protect the body 
from loss of heat and so make a lower heat production satisfactory. With the 
thin person more of his body is metabolizing and he has less of a protecting 
layer, and therefore every kilo he possesses may have to produce heat faster 
to keep up the body temperature. 

Is it to be expected that our underweight young women will resemble the 
war sufferers and Benedict's underfed young men with their low metabolism, 
or the underweight children with their high metabolism? 

The group of 23 underweight young women already cited as occurring in the 
supposedly normal group discussed by Harris and Benedict (2) are nearest in 
character to our group of any so far mentioned. We have retabulated the 
data on these young women, presenting it in Table III in the order of their 
percentage underweight and comparing the metabohsm of each one with the 
two commonly accepted standards of metabohsm — Harris and Benedict's 
predictions (2) for women of their age, weight, and height, and the DuBois 
standard of 37 calories per square meter per hour for women between 18 and 
30 years. Comparison with both of these standards shows an average metab- 
olism for the group almost exactly normal — only 2 per cent or 3 per cent 
below. Four of the group are from 10 to 13 per cent below normal metabohsm 
and one over 10 above. There is no close relation between per cent of under- 
weight and of low metabohsm. 

These various cases therefore tend to show that the basal metabolism of the 
supposedly normal, underweight person may be practically normal; but that 
in cases where the food intake has become seriously restricted and the person 
has lost considerable weight the heat production has also decreased below the 
normal. 

Observations on University of Chicago Sttidents. In the experiments on our 
underweight young women the Benedict Portable Respiration apparatus 
(8, 9) was used to determine the basal metabolism. The procedure outlined 
by him was carefully followed. The subject came to the laboratory early in 
the morning, having taken no food since the night before, and rested quietly 
30 minutes before any observation was taken. Duphcate 10 minute periods 
were always observed and unless they agreed within 5 per cent they were 
discarded and other obser\'ations taken or the day's readings discarded. 



1922] BAS.\L METABOLISM OF UNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 177 

TABLE III 
Metabolism of Underweight Women of the Nutrition Laboratory 





ACE 


HEIGHT 


WEIGHT 


UNDER 
WEIGHT 


HEAT PEODDCnON PER DAY 


HEAT PRODUCTION PER 
SQ. M, PER HR. 


NUMBER 


Observed 


Benedict 
predicted 


Difference 


Observed 


Difference 

from 

DuBois 

predicted, 

37 cal. 






cm. 


kilo 


per cent 


cat. 


cat. 


per cent 


cal. 


per cent 


62 


24 


159 


43.0 


24 


1158 


1248 


- 7.2 


34.2 


- 7.6 


56 


27 


167 


47.0 


24 


1168 


1288 


- 9.3 


32.2 


-12.9 


90 


22 


157 


41.3 


23 


1073 


1238 


-13.1 


32.8 


-11.4 


88 


26 


159 


44.2 


22 


1292 


1251 


3.2 


38.3 


3.5 


58 


25 


159 


45.0 


21 


1393 


1262 


10.3 


40.4 


9.2 


60 


29 


159 


44.9 


21 


1272 


1242 


2.2 


37.1 


0.3 


57 


22 


164 


46.7 


20 


1336 


1302 


2.6 


37.1 


0.3 


64 


19* 


154 


41.5 


20 


1207 


1249 


- 3.4 


37.0 


0.0 


61 


27 


157 


44.8 


19 


1189 


1248 


- 4.7 


35.0 


- 5.4 


33 


25 


168 


52.4 


16 


1321 


1350 


- 2.1 


34.6 


- 6.5 


43 


25 


164 


50.5 


16 


1327 


1324 


0.2 


36.1 


- 2.4 


44 


18 


166 


50.1 


13 


1235 


1358 


- 9.0 


33.4 


- 9.7 


45 


25 


164 


50.0 


16 


1345 


1319 


1.9 


36.6 


- 1.0 


89 


19 


152 


43.9 


15 


1143 


1268 


- 9.8 


34.4 


- 7.0 


46 


24 


162 


49.8 


14 


1419 


1318 


7.6 


38.9 


5.1 


55 


22 


161 


48.2 


14 


1294 


1311 


- 1.2 


36.1 


- 2.4 


38 


29 


163 


51.6 


13 


1421 


1315 


8.2 


38.2 


3,2 


40 


27 


163 


51.1 


13 


1265 


1319 


- 4.1 


34.2 


- 7.6 


86 


24 


160 


49.1 


13 


1153 


1309 


-11.9 


32.2 


-13.0 


21 


23 


175 


57.7 


12 


1430 


1423 


0.5 


35.0 


- 5.4 


47 


22 


160 


49.7 


11 


1139 


1323 


-13.9 


31.6 


-14.6 


48 


19 


160 


49.4 


11 


1300 


1336 


- 2.3 


36.3 


- 1.9 


53 


24 


159 


48.5 


11 


14S0 


1301 


13.7 


41.7 


12.7 


Averaj 


'e 












- 1.81 




— 3.24 

















* Harris and Benedict do not give standards for women under 21 years. The prediction 
for the young members in this group was computed by noting the decrease for women of their 
age and height between 21 and 22 years, and adding this amount to the prediction for 21 
years. The difference is only about five calories per jear at these ages. 



Because of possible day-by-day variation in basal metabolism the subject 
was observed two days and the average of the two taken as the "observed" 
metabolism. The detailed results for the 17 subjects and comparisons with 
the two standards are given in Table IV. The age is that at the nearest 
birthday, the weight is taken without clothing, and the surface area is com- 
puted from the DuBois height-weight chart. 



178 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



TABLE IV 
Metabolism of Underweight College Women 

















HEAT 


PRODUCTION 




Per 24 hours 


Per sq. m. per hr. 




AGE 


HEIGHT 


WEIGHT 


tMDER 
WEIGHT 


AREA 
DUBOIS 
CHART 


OXYGEN 








NUMBER 


Ob- 
served 


Bene- 
dict 
pre- 
dicted 


Differ- 


Ob- 
served 


DiSer- 
ence 
from 
Dubois 

pre- 
dicted 
37 cal. 




yrs. 


cm. 


*«. 


per cent 


sq. m. 


206 


cal. 


cal. 


per cent 


cat. 


per cent 


1 


24 


174 


48.1 


26 


1.57] 


189 






















i 


av. 197 


1370 


1390 


- 1.4 


37.2 


0.6 












[ 


166 












2 


21 


167 


46.0 


24 


1.49 


171 






















av. 169 


1175 


1309 


-10.2 


32.2 


-12.9 












r 


171 












3 


27 


167 


49.5 


23 


1.54 


207 






















i 


av. 189 


1310 


1317 


- 0.5 


35.7 


- 3.5 












[ 


204 












4 


19 


167 


47.3 


22 


1.51 


197 






















1 


av. 201 


1400 


1327 


5.5 


38.6 


4.3 












[ 


194 












5 


30 


172 


52.0 


21 


1.59 


201 






















1 


av. 197 


1370 


1330 


3.7 


35.9 


- 3.0 


6 


25 


167 


49.0 


21 


1.55 


Xo metabc 
185 


lism da 


ta 








7 


20 


165 


47.3 


20 


1.50 


172 






















i 


av. 177 


1230 


1318 


- 5.9 


34.2 


- 7.6 














213 












8 


19 


157 


46.8 


19 


1.41 


181 
























av. 197 


1370 


1309 


4.8 


40.5 


9.4 


9 


22 


158 


44.7 


19 


1.42 


No metabc 
179 


)lism da 


ta 








10 


28 


164 


49.7 


19 


1.59 


184 
















i 




^ 


av. 181 


1250 


1302 


- 3.9 


34.3 - 7.2 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF UNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 179 



TABLE IV— Continued 





AGE 


HEIGHT 


WEIGHT 


UNDER 


SURFACE 
AREA 

CHART 


OXYGEN 
PER MINUTE 


HEAT PRODUCTION 




Per 24 hours 


Per sq. m. per hr. 


NDMBER 


Ob- 
served 


Bene- 
dict 
pre- 
dicted 


DiSer- 
ence 


Ob- 
served 


Differ- 

frora 
DuBois 
pre- 
dicted 
37 cal. 




yrs. 


cm. 


kg. 


per cent 


sq. m. 


200 


cal. 


cal. 


per cent 


cal. 


per cent 


11 


18 


162 


47.3 


18 


1.46 


206 






















i 


av. 203 


1410 


1220 


15.5 


40.3 


8.9 


12 


30 


161 


50.0 


15 


1.52 

[ 


No metabc 
177 


)lism da 


ta 








13 


25 


156 


45.9 


15 


1.42 


160 






















I 


av. 169 


1175 


1260 


- 6.8 


34.5 


- 6.8 












r 


179 












14 


21 


157 


45.0 


15 


1.41 


189 






















i 


av. 184 


1260 


1272 


-0.9 


37.6 


1.6 












[ 


199 












IS 


21 


167 


52.0 


14 


1.57 


199 






















I 


av. 199 


1380 


1361 


1.4 


38.1 


3.0 














202 












16 


24 


158 


47.2 


13 


1.46 


189 






















i 


av. 194 


1350 


1292 


4.5 


38.4 


3.8 












[ 


174 












17 


28 


171 


57.2 


12 


1.65 


173 






















av. 174 


1200 


1387 


-13.4 


33.3 


-10.0 












( 


210 












18 


20 


160 


50.8 


12 


1.50 


190 






















i 


av. 200 


1400 


1343 


4.3 


38.0 


2.7 












f 


166 












19 


19 


162 


51.7 


11 


1.51 


169 






















[ 


av. 168 


1160 


1363 


-14.9 


32.1 


-13.2 


Aver 


ige . . 














- 1.3 




- 1.9 



















180 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The average metabolism of the group was found to be fairly close to the 
standards — only 1.3 per cent and 1.9 per cent below. Four of the subjects 
are higher than the Benedict predicted, tliree almost exactly the same, and 
nine below. Four are higher than the DuBois standard, two almost the 
same, and twelve lower. These differences from the predicted are too sUght 
to be significant. 

These two slight differences from standards are almost exactly the same as 
those found for the 23 underweight women of Benedict's study referred to 
above and are slightly less than those found by Blunt and Dye (10) from 
observations on seventeen women only one of whom was underweight. 

There is no consistent relation in the writer's subjects between the per cent 
underweight and the difference from the predicted. Also with possibly one 
exception. No. 11, who was 15.5 per cent above the Benedict standard, there 
was no abnormally high metabohsm which might indicate hyperthyroidism. 
This underweight group, therefore, showed in most cases an entirely normal 
basal metabolism. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Association Life Insurance Medical Directors and Actuarial Society of America, Medico- 

Actuarial Mortality Investigation, 1912. 

2. Harris and Benedict: A Biometric Study of Basal Metabolism in Man, Carnegie Insti- 

tution of Washington Pub. 279, 1919. 

3. Joslin: The Prevention of Diabetes Mellitus, /. Amer. Med. Assoc, 1921, 76: 79. 

4. Lusk: Elements of The Science of Nutrition, Philadelphia and London, 3rd edition, 1917. 

5. Lusk: The Physiological Effect of Undernutrition, Physiol. Re-o., 1921, 1: 523. 

6. Benedict, Miles, Roth, and Smith: Human Vitality and EfBciency Under Prolonged 

Restricted Diet. Carnegie Institution of Washington Pub. 280, 1919. 

7. Blunt, Nelson, and Oleson: The Basal Metabolism of Underweight Children, /. Biol. 

Cliem., 1921, 49: 247. See also Basal Metabolism of Women and Underweight 
Children, Jour. Home. Econ., 1922, 3: 117. 

8. Benedict: A Portable Respiration Apparatus for Clinical Use, Bost. Med. and Surg. J., 

1918, 178: 667. 

9. Benedict: Notes on the Use of the Portable Respiration .Apparatus, Bost. Med. and Surg. 

J., 1920, 182: 243. 
10. Blunt and Dye: Basal :Metabolism of Normal Women, J. Biol. Chem., 1921, 47: 69. 

{,To be concluded in the May issue.) 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH 181 

CURRENT HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH IN AMERICAN 

COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES AND IN 

GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS 

From the Research Committee of the American Home Economics 
Association 

Agnes Fay Morgan, University of California, Berkeley 

Grace Denny, University of Washington, Seattle 

Nina B. Crigler, Kansas Agricultural College, Manhattan 

Arma B. Richardson, Federal Board for Vocational Education 

Florence Nesbit, 102 E. Oak St., Chicago 

Minna C. Denton, Office of Home Economics, Washington, D. C, Chairman 

Foreword. As it is manifestly impossible to publish in one installment a 
list covering all these institutions, the committee is reporting, for pubhcation, 
■ titles in the order of their presentation. Additions to this list wih appear in 
future installments. The committee therefore solicits reports from all home 
economics departments who have students doing graduate work on problems 
of importance to home economics, whether these studies are being carried on 
within the department itseh, or in cooperation with some other department of 
the institution. 

It is the desire of the committee to include in this list only those titles 
which represent work already completed, or sufficiently far advanced that 
there is every reason to suppose that the thesis will be completed by a given 
date. Studies made by faculty members or by professional research workers 
are also called for. In those cases where the study has been published, medium 
and date of publication should be given. 

In case of certain institutions it is likely that not all of the papers properly 
dassiiied as home economics research have been included. Additions to this 
list are soUcited. 

THE UNTVEESITY Or CALIFORNIA, 1915-1921 

(All of these papers are Master's theses, except nos. 11 and 12.) 
Department of Household Science 

The Determination of the Conditions Governing the Absorption of Fats by Fried Foods. 

EUa Louise Rau, 1916. (See Physical and Chemical Changes in Fats Used in Frying 

Food, Morgan and Ella Rau Cozens, Jour. Home Econ., 11, 394, 1919.) 
Relations of Certain Controlled Conditions to Time of Cooking and Loss of Nitrogeneous 

Extractives in Roasting Beef. Precious Mabel Nelson, 1916. 
A Comparison of the Oxalate Titration and Electrometric Methods for the Determination 

of the Development of Acidity in Milk. Margaret Hazel Mills, 1916. 



182 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

A Study of Home Canning Methods and Their Effect on the Viability of Certain Anaerobes 

Found in Canned Foods. Carrie Ethel Castle, 1919. See Jour. Home Econ., 11, 

246, 1919. 

Note: Mrs. Carrie Castle Dozier is continuing certain phases of this problem as part of 
the botulism investigations being carried on at the Hooper Foundation for Medical 
Research. 
The Carbohydrate Content of Thrice Cooked Vegetables for the Diabetic. Pearl Pemberton, 

1919. 
Value of Whale Meat as Human Food. Edith L. Brown, 1918. 
The Biological Value of \\'heat and Almond Nitrogen. Alice M. Heinz, 1918. (See 

Jour. Biol. Chem., vol 37, Feb. 1919.) 
The E.\traction and Purification of One or More Proteins from California Almonds. Eliza- 
beth Bridge, 1916. 

Xole: Further studies now under way: a. Van Slyke separation of amino-acids in a 
globulin and an albumin isolated from the almond, b. Nutrition studies with mice 
using these purified proteins as sole source of nitrogen. 
The Relation of Blood Creatin-Creatinin to Arginin. Marguerite Johnson, 1919. 
Isolation and Identification of Inulin from the Globe Artichoke. Ruth Okey and Anna 

W. WilUams, 1920. 
Metabolism of Women as Affected by the Menstrual Cycle. Ruth Okey and IMaybelle 

Eager, 1920. 
Studies on \itamins, 1920 and 1921. Distribution of Fat-Soluble Vitamin between the Fat 

and Watery Phases of Milk, using Albino Mice. Studies upon vitamin content of dried 

fruits using same technique are under way. 

Department of Household Art 

Home Economics from the University Standpoint. Saides Ethel Stark, 1916. 
An Elementary Course in Millinery. Florence Zander, 1920. 

Studies in Stage Setting and Design for Costume. Dorothy Eurilla Wilkinson, 1921. 
Egyptian Character in Stage Setting and Costume. Illustrated by Aida. Alice Robbins 
Humphrey, 1921. 

THE TOrmaiSITY of inSSODRI, COLUMBIA 

Hygiene of Underwear. Florence Caton. 

Experiments in Cake Making. Nita Collier. 

Temperature Inside the Jar During Canning. Louise Stanley and Ethel Gildenhaus. 

The Thermal Death Point of BacUlus Botulinus in Canning Spinach. Louise Stanley, 

Ethel Gildenhaus, and Mrs. Abbott. 
Effect of Blanching Before Canning on the Appearance, Keeping Quality, and Nutritive 

Value of Some Tj-pical \'egetables. Louise Stanley and various students. 
Effect of Baking Powder on the Specific Volume of Cake. Louise Stanley and Nita Collier. 
The Influence of Cooking and Canning on the Vitamine Content of Foods. Louise Stanley 

and Bertha \Miipple. 

PLORID.\ STATE COLLEGE FOR WOMEN, TALLAHASSEE 

Studies in Nutrition and Experimental Cookery. Ella M. Woods and Juanita Darrah. 

PtTRDfE UNTVERSITY, LAFAYETTE, IND. 

Hitherto Unreported Experiments with Different Fats in the Making of Cakes and Pastry. 
Hannah Osborne and .Amy Bloye, under direction of Mary Mathews. 
(To be continued) 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

MAKING A SUCCESS OUT OF FAMILY LIFE 

"What is success and how are the great number of famihes Hving on 
the avarage income in this country to win it?" asks Mrs. Mary Hinman 
Abel in her new book, "Successful Family Life on the Moderate In- 
come," and there follows a discussion of the problem from almost every 
viewpoint, which can hardly fail to help the "milhon and a half families 
in this country in 1910 with incomes of $1400 to $2000 a year, a sum 
that is equivalent in buying power to probably $2500 to $3500 more or 

less in 1921 there should perhaps be added to (this group) 

many famihes with somewhat larger money incomes .... all 
famihes, in fact, in which the financial margin above the minimum is 
only enough, when supplemented by the housewife's full time service, 
to secure some freedom in ordering the hfe." 

One of the interesting things in the book is an outline of the "four 
conditions for success" which are as follows: 

1. The money income of the family tolerably certain and earned wholly 
or chiefly by the man. 

2. A fair start in life for the heads of this household, including wholesome 
home training, education, both general and vocational, and money enough, 
or things of money value, furnished chiefly from their own savings, to enable 
them to meet with courage the financial problems that present themselves, 
especially in the difficult early years of married life. 

3. The right attitude of the woman of the family towards her part in its 
success, with a growing capacity to meet its requirements. 

4. Generous help on the part of the community in promoting the success 
of the family. 

What are the " higher values in family hfe?" Mrs. Abel in her chapter 
on this subject sums it up as follows: 

The establishment of the family group will be influenced by the standard 
of living at any given time, and the plan of life which includes "family build- 
ing" would seem to be the one which offers the best promise of permanence 
and success. No contribution to family life is so great as that offered by the 

183 



184 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

child, and all adults should have some relation to a home in which there are 
children. Adoption, either outright or partial, is the privilege of those to 
whom childhood makes a strong appeal, and is to be strongly recommended. 

In regard to the "start in life," Mrs. Abel brings forth a rather new 
idea when she says that the girl must save. 

Men, are more apt to take for granted than are women that they must work 
hard and save for the home they hope to have. It is, however, equally 
incumbent on the girl who is now entering all manner of occupations 
and demanding a man's pay. But in many cases she is still under the 
spell of a former time when she expected to be "supported" after she 
married, and she does not save as the man saves. The young woman, 
as well as the young man, while paying out of her earnings a fair share 
toward the home living expenses, should be able to start the collection of 
books, to buy her pictures or pieces of furniture, a rug, a musical instru- 
ment, and to begin a bank account, and she may feel that, whether she 
marries or not, a home with its cherished possessions, slowly accumulated and 
reflecting personal taste, wiU still be necessary to her happiness. 

Should the woman have control over the family money? Mrs. Abel 
says: 

Very early there should be a complete understanding between husband and 
wife as to income, property, debts, and financial plans for the future. Just 
as the man engages to provide the necessary funds, the wife should feel it her 
duty to study her work and make ready to carry her responsibihties. 

They should make out together a plan of spending and there should be 
consultations over weekly or monthly bills with a view to improving the plan 
and noting whether theories are being carried out in practice. 

The housewife should adopt a simple method of keeping accounts and she 
should enter her purchases daily. She must sum up and balance with tolerable 
exactness, but she should not worry over small sums that have been forgotten; 
it is better to enter them in the "unclassified" or sundrj' column. 

She win study her weekly or monthly summaries with a view to improving 
the apportionments made and to examine into the wisdom of her purchases, 
and she must classify the most important outgoes, as for food for the family 
per week and month. Criticism of results is the important thing and it 
makes possible a better plan of spending for the year or years to come. 

The housewife should have the actual command of money that has been 
agreed on as necessary to meet expenditures, either cash in weekly install- 
ments, or a joint bank account on which both she and her husband check, or, 
better still, a bank account in her own name, for the possession of the bank 
book adds to the dignity of her position and to her sense of responsibility. 



1922] MAKIXG A SUCCESS OUT OF FAMILY LIFE 185 

Should a woman work outside the home after she is married? This 
is a important question and Mrs. Abel gives an exceedingly fair con- 
sideration of it in her chapter, "The Housewife's Contribution to the 
Family Income Through Housework." She says: 

In comparing these two ways of money earning we are not concerned with 
which is the more honorable, that question belongs to a past-and-gone attitude 
toward labor; we are concerned simply with a comparison of values .... 
the woman who adds to the value of raw materials by making them into the 
finished product in her own home, as seen in the cooked food or the finished 
garment, or by renewing the serv'ice of articles as in washing dishes or cleaning, 
seems to have at present certain advantages over outside labor which is offer- 
ing the same service: 

1. Since the house exists and is conducted for the general purposes of 
family life, the housewife is not obhged to add to the price of what is manu- 
factured in the home certain "overhead charges," which must be paid by 
business and added to the price of the finished product as sold. 

2. The fact that what she produces in the home is consumed there, cuts 
out transportation charges, except those connected with the assembling of 
raw materials. 

3. The time-factor, which on account of the high price of labor is the 
heaviest charge on outside business, is not, in the housewife's case, to be put 
at the same high figure, since part of her time is always necessary in her house- 
hold for other than economic functions, and she "works in" to a certain 
extent her odds and ends of household arts. To make a complete comparison 
on this important point more facts are needed than we now possess. 

4. There are many other economic factors to be taken into account, such 
as the superior efficiency of the home worker who is impelled by self-interest 
to improve methods and to use materials with economy, and who, on account 
of the variety and mterest of her tasks, and the command over her time which 
enables her to plan periods of rest, can work longer hours without fatigue than 
can the woman in business. 

5. There seem to be many non-economic reasons for retaining some of the 
household arts in the individual home, such as the control over healthful 
conditions requiring personal vigilance, the development it affords to the 
worker and the educational value of the household "plant" in the rearing of 
children. To make her necessary contribution to the family income by 
doing the work in her own home seems at present to be the only way by which 
the woman of small means can keep up her intimate relation with the family 
and perform her valuable non-economic functions. 

These comparisons apply for the most part only to town and city life; 
in all rural communities, where nearly one-half of our population lives, indi- 



186 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

vidual housekeeping must still be the rule and most of the household arts be 

performed at home 

On higher income levels many factors enter into the decision, as the money 
rewards of the occupation, the interest and zeal that the woman has for her 
work, and chiefly the character of the work itself, as to whether it is easily 
combined with home life, leaving her enough time and energy for what society 
requires of her in that relation. The woman lawyer, physician, architect, 
writer, actress, and others of the more highly skilled and paid professional 
careers, will in many cases, continue their work or return to it after a time. 
Their high earnings will enable them to obtain the services of the few really 
qualified people who are available for housework and for the care and educa- 
tion of little children. Even in these cases it may be best for non-economic 
reasons for the woman to devote her whole time to the family if the earnings 
of the husband are sufficient for its support. 

One would scarcely expect a book so definitely devoted to economics 
of the household to avoid discussion of the family budget. It is frankly 
considered in Chapter XIII, which begins by stating that " technically, 
the budget, whether of a nation or of a family, is concerned with divid- 
ing up the estimated income before the money is spent." 

In regard to savings, Mrs. Abel calls attention to the fact that the 
Government budget suggests that the family of five receiving $2400 
income can save 11 per cent of it, or $264. "This saving fund," she 
says, "may be assigned to many different uses." These, which include 
savings-bank deposits, life and accident insurance, buying of a house 
and furniture, and education, are discussed more or less in detail. 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: Does freezing, especially continued freezing, afTect the vita- 
mine content of canned food? 

Answer: So far as we are aware, there are no published reports showing 
the effect of extremely low temperature on the antiscorbutic and anti- 
neuritic vitamine. Recent work indicates that vitamine destruction is 
the result of oxidation. Low temperatures alone, therefore, would 
produce no untoward effect on the vitamines of foods. Davey (Bio. 
Chem. Jour., 1921, 15: 83) during an investigation dealing with the 
antiscorbutic vitamine, held citrus fruit juices for several months at 
minus 3°C. and minus 5°C., and observed that the potency of the anti- 
scorbutic vitamine was in no way impaired. 



EDITORIAL 

Reasons for Membership in the American Home Economics 
Association. There are more than 10,000 home economics teachers in 
addition to the hundreds of extension workers and other home economics 
graduates in various aUied fields. Of these workers about 1600 belong 
to the American Home Economics Association. We wish to secure for 
our chosen profession rightful recognition among professions and profes- 
sional people. Such recognition comes only through support within 
the profession to the end of efficient organization and management. 
In so young a profession standards are set up and maintained by a strong 
association; in turn the Association needs the help of all progressive 
members in the formulation of constructive forward-looking policies. 

The Association through its state organizations, state and national 
committees, and publications is a clearing house for information of 
value to home economics people; it is a means of contact between the 
teacher and the administrator, between workers in the same field in 
every section of the country; it furnishes a bond of sympathy between 
those who are already established and new members whose development 
will be followed with interest. To the home economics women in the 
commercial world the Association offers a medium for dissemination of 
information as to the contributions they can make to all other phases 
of the profession \vith the high standards they have set. This will 
secure for them the support and assistance of the profession. The home- 
maker should join the Association of the profession deahng directly with 
problems which have to do with home and community life. Only as 
we get the ideas of the homemaker who is in daily contact with these 
problems can the profession render its greatest service. 

The Homemaker and the Homemaker's Department. At a 
recent alumnae gathering of home economics women in one of our large 
colleges one whole session was devoted to the discussion by homemakers 
of their problems. This is as it should be, and the Journal pleads for 
similar discussion in its department for the homemaker. Workers in 
foods and nutrition contribute of their work; those whose interest is in 
textiles, institutional work, social service, or extension present results 
of their experience or study for the benefit of others similarly interested. 

187 



188 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

All of these subjects interest the homemaker and she is the person who 
puts into practice the findings of all other workers. Is it not time that 
she contributed her share of ideas for the improvement of living condi- 
tions in the home and the community? Hundreds of women trained 
in home economics are homemakers. Many problems come from the 
home ; the solution should come from the home and the profession work- 
ing together. Help to make this a department /or the homemaker by 
the homemaker! 

Obesity and Diet. Fat "cures" are quite the thing. If every pop- 
ular magazine writer has not yet told the reading public how he got rid of 
his extra pounds, it is no doubt because he is still in the act of writing 
his story. Several of the city presses have been furnishing hilarity to 
their readers with daily accounts of weight reduction races by the over- 
fleshy. In some instances the city Health Departments have even 
directed these contests. 

The amusing features of weight reduction are apparent but there is 
also serious reason for ridding oneself of excessive fat which probably 
does not occur to the lajTnan. Life insurance statistics have long shown 
over-weight to be a liability and not an asset. A more tangible reason 
for keeping oneself reasonably lean, especially after middle age, is pointed 
out by Joslin.' Diabetes is the penalty for obesity; if there is any dia- 
betic tendency whatever on the part of the individual, overweight is the 
only encouragement needed. 

Nine hundred and ninety-nine of every one thousand fat people are 
overweight because they eat more food than they need and for no other 
reason. The other one case of obesity which may be caused by some 
functional disturbance is not being considered in this discussion. The 
person who thinks he eats so little and yet becomes or remains so fat 
may have an energy requirement much lower than he suspects. There 
are not yet methods of measuring energ>' expenditure in all the possible 
activities of a normal individual's day. Only the performances which 
can be confined within a small chamber are measurable. Therefore it 
is possible to miss the actual heat expenditure by several hundred calories 
when it is calculated or estimated from such meager data. If only one 
hundred extra calories of food over and above the amount used are con- 
sumed daily, it may mean an increase of body fat of almost ten pounds 
yearly. 

' Joslin, E. P.; The prevention of diabetes mellitus. Jour. Amer, Med. Assoc, 1921, 
76: 79. 



1922] OPEN FORUM 189 

He who would reduce should first study food composition and food 
values. A reduction method can be effective only when it decreases 
food intake or increases energy output; if it does both at the same time 
it is all the more effective. However, going to extremes in indiscriminate 
dieting and fasting without medical supervision may have its dangers. 
Folin and Denis- found that acidosis developed to a noticeable extent 
in some very obese subjects after four to five days of fasting. By inter- 
mittent fasting they were able to increase the power of the body to bum 
its own fat without the appearance of beta-oxybutyric acid. Apparent 
failure of a dieting treatment, Grafe^ says, may be because of an undue 
retention of water by the body tissues even after considerable fat has 
been burned away. 

The annoying thing about most reducing schemes is that they interfere 
with one's pleasurable habits of eating and living. The originator of one 
much advertised plan claims to have made the astounding discovery 
that food does not make fat! His followers, he avers, are allowed to 
eat. A lively sale of these lessons can safely be predicted though there 
is doubt whether the would-be reducer has spent his money wisely. 

Sybil Woodruff. 

THE OPEN FORUM 

To the Editor of the Journal of Home Economics: 

The plea for a definite stand by the home economics profession on the 
question of uniformity in measuring apparatus and standards, voiced 
in the editorial appearing on page 614 of the December Journal, in- 
terested me very much. 

When a member of the home economics staff of the University of 
Washington at Seattle, 1 was perplexed with the inconsistencies in the 
measuring apparatus used in the food laboratories which had been under 
my observation up to that time. Early in 1917 I started inquiries to 
discover if this condition was quite general throughout the schools of the 
country. The investigation was carried far enough to show that appara- 
tus was always inaccurate and there was a general lack of standardiza- 
tion and uniformity. More urgent matters interrupted a plan to gather 
concise data on the subject and present it to the Journal with a plea 

' Folin, O., and Denis, \V.: On starvation and obesity with special reference to acidosis. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 1915, 21: 183. 

' Grafe, E.: Patholog>- and treatment of constitutional obesity. (Abstract). Jour. 
Amer. Assoc, 1921, 76: 486. 



190 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



to the home economics profession to foster the manufacture of accurate 
standard measuring apparatus, and influence its adoption in all home 
economics food laboratories. 

There is probably no question in the mind of any one of us as to the 
status of the measuring cup in general use at this time. The following 
certificate, signed by the Chief Sealer of Weights and Measures of the 
State of Wisconsin, shows in detail the cubic centimeter capacities of 
seven cups representative of those used, in many cases indiscriminately, 
in home economics laboratories and homes throughout the country. 

Household Measuring Cups 



Cup A* 
Cup B. 
CupC. 
Cup D. 
Cup E. 
Cup F. 
Cup G. 



ONE FOURTH 


ONE-HALF 


FOLHTHS 


FULL 


ONE-THISD 


55 


125 


193 


277 


75 


57 


122 


189 


260 


80 


53 


112 


no 


245 


73 


50 


110 


145 


233 


71 


67 


127 


187 


240 


97 


55 


120 


180 


245 


70 


65 


120 


180 


240 


83 



TWO-THIRSS 



173 
166 
148 
170 
167 
158 
158 



(Signed) Geo. Warnek, 
Chief Sealer oj Weights and Measures. 
Madison, Wisconsin. 



A and B, made of tin, have total capacities respectively of 40 cc. or 
17 per cent and 23 cc. or 9 per cent in excess of the 237 cc. capacity of the 
standard U. S. one-half pint. C, of aluminum, and F, of glass, are 
8 cc. or 3 per cent in excess of standard. The separate sections of these 
cups are irregularly inaccurate. D and E, of aluminum, and G, of glass, 
show the least tolerance; D, "Wearever" is 4 cc. or 2 per cent deficient, 
and E and G, 3 cc. or 1 per cent in excess of the standard capacity. (The 
tolerance for a graduate of the same internal diameter as G, allowed by 
the Wisconsin regulations effective after January 1, 1921, is about 1.6 cc. 
or 0.6 per cent.) The sections of D, however, are irregularly inaccurate; 
E has this same fault and is even less dependable because the total 

*A. National Enameling Stanping Co., Milwaukee, Wis. (Tin.) 

B. Not indentified as yet. "Perfection" stamped on side. 

C. West Bend Aluminum Co., West Bend, Wis. 

D. The Aluminum Cooking Utensil Co., New Kensington, Pa. 

E. Aluminum Goods Manufacturing Co., ^Manitowoc, Wis. 

F. Indiana Glass Co., Dunkirk, Indiana. (Unfinished cup; no lip.) 

G. Hocking Glass Co., Lancaster, Ohio. (Lip.) 



1922] OPEN FORUM 191 

capacity of the cup is not determined by the top edge. G, which is 
selling at retail for 10 cents and may be bought for $7.20 per gross, less 
10 per cent discount, is the least inaccurate as to section capacities. 
The lowest quarter division is 5 cc. or 8 per cent in excess as figured on 
the basis of the actual total capacity, and the second quarter is the same 
amount deficient; the lowest third is 3 cc. or 4 per cent in excess; the 
middle third, 5 cc. or 6 per cent deficient; and the upper third, 2 cc. or 
2 per cent in excess of standard. 

Since the inaccuracy of cups now obtainable on the market is a recog- 
nized fact, the first step to take toward the establishment of uniformity 
would be, presumably, to determine a suitable cup in regard to material 
and pattern and effect its manufacture in accordance with determined 
standards. 

All graduated tin measures are barred from commercial usage by regu- 
lations of Federal law and laws of many states. It is almost impossible 
to fill the measure to exactly the same point each time and it is difficult to 
read such measures correctly. The same difficulties apply equally to 
enamel or aluminum graduated measures. The glass graduate can be 
easily and correctly read and is used exclusively for commercial purposes. 
Would it not seem advisable to consider a material which gives the 
greatest accuracy in use? 

Glass is a poorer conductor of heat than is enamel, tin, or aluminum, 
and so the disadvantage of an overheated handle in the measurement of 
hot liquids is not experienced with a glass cup. Glass is easier to clean 
and retains its new appearance with less care unless actually chipped or 
broken. 

It seems probable that accurate molds for glass cups can be made, 
for chemical and pharmaceutical glass graduates of tested accuracy are 
in common use. Evidently the price of such an article made of glass 
need not be prohibitive for general laboratory use, for the glass cup G, 
has as low a retail selling price as any on the market and is the least 
inaccurate of those tested. By using a chemical glass resistant to heat, 
the fragility of glass would be reduced to a minimum and that objection 
might be disregarded. 

As to the pattern of the cup: shall it be made of a size similar to those 
now on the market with height and internal diameter approximately 
equal, or shall it tend toward the size specified by the Bureau of Stand- 
ards, that is, with "the ratio of length of the graduated scale to the in- 
ternal diameter not less than five to one?" Shall it have a pouring lip 



192 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

or shall it not? These matters should be carefully considered and later 
be taken up with the designer and manufacturer. 

Would it not be expedient for the Journal to give the whole matter 
further publicity and through a committee supported by the American 
Home Economics Association consider the matter thoroughly and take 
it up with the proper commercial concerns? Later when a suitable 
cup is on the market at a reasonable price, it would be simple enough to 
gain its adoption and arrive at uniformity in this detail of scientific 
measurement, the neglect of which has given it undue importance. 

Some correspondence has been appended.' The letters from the 
Coming Glass Works merit special attention. They have shown their 
interest in the matter and may be ready to make definite plans if ap- 
proached by those in authority. The ready-made advertisement which 
would be given their ware would no doubt influence their decision. 

I hope that this may give the pursuance of the project greater 
momentum. 

Katharine Martindale, 
237 S. Tenth St., La Crosse, Wis. 

A Student Cost of Living Study was made this year by graduate 
students in Household Economics at Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, under the direction of Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews. Tlais study, 
which is published in a forthcoming issue of the Teachers College Record, 
showed that the cost of living for 76 senior and graduate women stu- 
dents in Teachers College last year varied from $741 to $1995, with the 
median cost $1243 to $1251. One quarter of the group spent less than 
$1121 and one quarter spent more than $1444, so that one half of the 
group spent between these amounts. These totals include all expenses 
with the exception of railroad travel. The median costs for various 
items were as follows: fees paid to the college, $295 to $298; living 
expenses, $511 to $515 (room, board, laundry); clothing, $231 to $235; 
miscellaneous — all other expenses at college, $200; railroad travel, 
$82 to $85. 

Dr. Andrews is interested in securing similar costs from other insti- 
tutions and will gladly send blanks showing the method of making the 
study to any who may be interested. Such a study is of value to the 
students and to the college in which it is made, since inquiries as to 
living costs are frequent from prospective students. 

* Correspondence with cookery departments of various universities and with manu- 
facturers of glass and aluminum cooking utensils. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Public Heallh Surveys. By Mxtrray P. 

HoRwoOD. New York: John Wiley and 

Sons, 1921, pp. 403. $4.50. 

This book is a valuable contribution to 
sanitary science. The clearness of expres- 
sion and detailed treatment of problems 
confronting the public health surveyor, 
together with descriptions of what ideal 
conditions should be, make the volume espe- 
cially useful to students in public health. 

A pleasing foreword by the late Professor 
William T. Sedgwick and an introduction by 
Professor George C. WTiipple of Harvard 
Engineering School, emphasize the impor- 
tance and general principles of public health 
surveys. 

The first four chapters contain general 
information about public health surveys 
and deal with fundamental problems of 
community organization and methods em- 
ployed in making surveys. This is followed 
by sLx excellent chapters on problems of 
sanitation, with helpful discussions and 
illustrations. The subjects of school sanita- 
tion, school hygiene, organization and 
activities of the health department, hospital 
facilities, tuberculosis, vital statistics, and 
analysis of city budget are each discussed in 
separate chapters, but insuEhcient considera- 
tion is given to the control of communicable 
disease, infant hygiene, nursing, and public 
health laboratories. It is also felt that the 
subject of tuberculosis receives inadequate 
treatment for such an important problem. 
Instnictive chapters dealing with the prepa- 
ration of reports of public health surveys 
and methods of obtaining results from them, 
together with a discussion of the value of 
such surveys in the public health campaign, 
conclude the volume. 

In so far as it deals with sanitation this 
book is excellent and should prove a useful 
guide in teaching what public health surveys 
are and how they are made and used. 
Ira V. HiscocK, 
Vale University. 



Make Your Own Hats. By Gene Allen 
Martin. New York and Boston: Hough- 
ton and Mifflin, 1921, pp. 111. $1.50. 
Every woman is vitally interested in 
being well dressed with a minimum expendi- 
ture of time, energy, and money. Of aU 
parts of the wardrobe, the hat offers one of 
the greatest problems for a person with no 
training in millinery. Mrs. Martin has 
given in her book, an inspiration for anyone 
to try to solve this difficulty by learning to 
make her own hats. 

The book contains a foreword which 
deals with the application of principles of 
costume design to hats, and several sugges- 
tions for the purchasing of ready-to-wear 
head gear. The subject matter of the main 
text covers practically all the construction 
problems which confront the beginner in 
millinery, and the directions are written in 
a very clear, definite style. The few illustra- 
tions which the book contains are carefully 
chosen and are easily understood. Many 
different methods of procedure from those of 
the average millinery textbook are advocated 
which seem sound and practical, and any 
person should be able to obtain good results 
if the directions are accurately followed. 

Teachers of millinery will find this book a 
valuable addition to their reference libraries. 
Mary C. Whitlock, 
University of Illinois. 

Personal Account Book of • Pupil, 

School. By Frances R. Kelley, Min- 
neapolis Public Schools. 
Miss Kelley has brought out a pupil's 
account book which wiU interest home eco- 
nomics teachers everywhere as providing a 
valuable teaching project. The book is 
put in the hands of the individual child for 
his or her personal expense and clothing 
record. It includes first a general account 
with columns for income from earnings and 
gifts, and columns for savings and for 
expenditures of various kinds. Savings is 
193 



194 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



properly put ahead of expenditures in the 
account form, as the only way to save is to 
save first. The expenditure classifications 
include food, clothes, education, pleasure, 
carfare, gifts and miscellaneous. One might 
suggest the desirability of including here 
"social welfare contributions" as a heading. 
The general account is followed by an appro- 
priate monthly summary form. The last 
half of the book is a clothing account %\ith 
items for ready-to-wear clothes and clothes 
made at home, for millinerj-, shoes, and 
miscellaneous. An appropriate summary 
is provided for the clothing account with a 
classification into underwear, indoor wear, 
outdoor wear, millinery, shoes and repairs, 
miscellaneous. 

Miss KeUey is to be congratulated on this 
piece of work. Several cities are now re- 
quiring pupils in the upper grades and high 
schools to keep personal accounts as part 
of their work, and the requirement is a 
commendable one. 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 

Manufactured Gas and Natural Gas 
Situation in Pennsylvania represents a co- 
ordination, under the direction of Samuel 
S. Wyer, of Federal and State agencies, to 
spread accurate information and create a 
correct public opinion on the gas situation. 
Arrangements have been made whereby this 
pamphlet will be used in the Pennsylvania 
pubhc schools. It is written from a resource 
viewpoint, directing existing facilities to the 
solution of a pressing present and future 
problem. 

The Syracuse Hmne Bureau Food Calendar 
is a calendar by courtesy. It was prepared 
to meet the needs of the many women who 
are in touch ■with the Home Bureau and 
who expressed the desire for suggestions as 
to meal planning by the week. The first 
page contains a "Key to Meal Planning" 
with the ordinary foods diWded in groups 
and with a brief discussion of each group. 
Menus for five weeks of cold weather and 
for five weeks of warm weather foUow. 
These menus may be followed exactly, but 
they are given rather as examples of meals 
for a week plaimed with the food groups 
in mind. 



Follott'ing the menus are about five 
hundred recipes under such headings as 
Fruits, Vegetables, Hot Breads, Yeast 
Breads. There are from ten to thirty 
recipes under the various headings and they 
are all tested Home Bureau recipes which 
will serve five persons. 

In the estimation of those who use the 
calendar daily the hole punched at the 
bottom of each page which allows it to be 
fastened open at any place is a great ad- 
vantage. No greasy finger marks on the 
pages of the Home Bureau Cook Book ! 

Edith Barber. 

T)ie Illinois Food Calendar which was 
prepared two years ago by Nina Crigler is 
still proving that it is a practical working 
basis for the busy housewife who would 
know whether or not she is planning a 
balanced diet for her family. 

The particular value of this food calendar 
is its simplicity. The person who has not 
had technical training can use it success- 
fully. The calendar has been very popular 
in connection with the estabUshment of the 
hot lunches in the rural schools. The 
children have been enthusiastic about keep- 
ing it, and the boys quite as interested as 
the girls. It has been used in nutrition 
classes to interest the children in bringing 
their weight up to normal, and has been of 
valuable assistance in carrj-ing out the 
health project. 

The calendar has also been used in 
launching the food selection project in con- 
nection with the home economics extension 
work. In one county where 440 food 
calendars were used in Home Bureau work, 
the home adviser has reported that 90 per 
cent of these women are giving more atten- 
tion to meal planning. One of the outstand- 
ing results of checking the food calendar 
has been the increased use of vegetables 
and fruits, and a wider realization on the 
part of the women that milk as a food is 
comparable to meat in value and could take 
its place in a diet. They have been able to 
complete this phase of the work without 
becoming lost in a sea of scientific facts and 
new terminolog>'. 

Kathryn G. Van Aken. 



1922] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 195 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Nutrition 

Bailey, C. H., and Weigley, M. Loss of Carbon Dioxide as an Index of Flour Strength. 

/. Iiid. Eng. Ckem., 1922, 14: 147-150. 
Bresnahan, J. F. The Fresh Egg Problem at the Bridgeport Hospital. Mod. Hasp., 1922, 

18: 90. 
Camp, W. R. Proposed Reforms in the System of Food Distribution. II. /. Pol. Econ., 

1921, 29: 806-827. 
Claj-son, D. H., Norris, F. W., and Schryver, S. B. The Pectic Substances of Plants. Pt. 11. 

A Preliminary Investigation of the Chemistry of the Cell Walls of Plants. Biochem. J., 

1921, 15:643-653. 
Coward, K. H., and Drummond, J. C. The Formation of Vitamin A in Living Plant Tissues. 

Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 530-539. 
Dalyell, E. J., Chick, H., Hume, E., and Xierenstein, E. Hunger Osteomalacia in Vienna 

I. Relation to Diet. II Treatment. Luncet, 1921, 2: 842-849, 849^853. 
Daniels, A. L. Can Yeast be Used as a Source of the Antineuritic Vitamine in Infant Feed- 
ing? Am. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 41-50. 
Davey, A. J. Determination of the INIinhnum Dose of Some Fresh Citrus Fruit Juices which 

wiU Protect a Guinea Pig from Scurvy together with Some Observations on the Preser- 
vation of Such Juices. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 83-103. 
Delf, E. M. Cookmg and Vitamines. Sci. Progress, 1921, 15: 601-612. 
Drummond, J. C. Factors Influencing the Nutritive Value of Lard and Lard Substitutes. 

/. Soc. Chem. hid., 1921, 40: S1-S4. 
Drummond, J. C, Coward, K. H., and Watson, A. F. Factors Influencing the Value of 

Milk and Butter as Sources of Vitamine A. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 540-552. 
Dutcher, R. A. Vitamine Content of !MiLk and Dairy Products. Am. Food J., 1921, 16: 

17, 18. 
Falk, K. G., and McGuire, G. Studies in Enzyme -Action. /. Gen. Physiol., 1921, 3: 

595-609. 
Foster, D. P., and Whipple, G. H. Blood Fibrin Studies. II. Normal Fibrin and the Influ- 
ence of Diet. Am. J. Physiol., 1922, 58: 379-392. 
Hartwell, G. A. Efifect of Diet on Mammary Secretion. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 140-162. 
■ — — Excess Protein and ^Mammary Secretion. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 563-574. 
Hess, A. F., and Gutman, M. B. The Cure of Infantile Rickets by Sunlight Accompanied 

by an Increase in the Inorganic Phosphate of the Blood. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 

78: 29-31. 
Hess, .\. F., Unger, L. J., and Pappenheimer, A. M. Experimental Rickets in Rats. III. 

The Prevention of Rickets in Rats by E\i)osure to Sunlight. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 

50: 77-82. 
Hume, E. ]M. Comparison of the Growth Promoting Properties for Guinea Pigs of Certain 

Diets Consistmg of Natural Foodstuffs. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 30-48. 
. Investigation of the Antiscorbutic Value of FuU Cream Sweetened Condensed Milk 

by Experiments. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 163-166. 
Jephcott, H., and Bacharach, A. L. Antiscorbutic Value of Dried ililk. Biochem. J., 

1921, 15: 129-139. 
Ladd, M. The Effect of Compressed Yeast Cake in Infant Feeding. Arch. Fed., 1921, 

38: 775-780. 



196 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

McCann, W. S. The Protein Requirement in Tuberculosis. Arch. Int. Med., 1922, 29: 

33-58. 
McCarrison, R. Faulty Diet in Relation to Gastro-intestinal Disorder. /. Am. Med. 

Assoc, 1922, 78: 1-8. 
Mackay, H. M. M. Effect on Kittens of a Diet Deficient in Animal Fat. Biochem. J., 

1921, 15: 19-27. 
McCollum, E. V. Deficiencies in Diet as Related to Nutrition and Growth. Dental Cosmos, 

1921,63:596-599. 
McCollum, E. v., Simmonds, N., Shipley, P. G., and Park, E. A. Studies on Experimental 

Rickets. XII. Is there a Substance Other than Fat Soluble A Associated with Certain 

Fats which Plays an Important Role in Bone Development? J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 50: 

5-30. XV. Effect of Starvation on the Healing of Rickets. Johns Hopkins Hosp. 

Bull., 1922,33:31. 
Marsh, P. O., Newburgh, L. H., and HoUy, L. E. The Nitrogen Requirement for Main- 
tenance in Diabetes. Arch. Int. Med., 1922, 29: 97-130. 
Mitchell, H. S., and Mendel, L. B. Studies in Nutrition. The Choice Between Adequate 

and Inadequate Diets as Made by Rats and Mice. Am. J. Physiol., 1921, 58: 211-225. 
Nevin, M. Botulism from Cheese. 7. /w/ec. £»«., 1921, 38: 226-231. 
Peterson, A., and Walter, W. Basal Metabolism and Ideal Weight and Pulse Ratios as 

Shown by the Findings in More than Twenty-Five Hundred Observations on About 

Twelve Hundred Patients. /. Am. Med. Assoc., 1922, 78: 341-343. 
Powers, G. F., Park, E. A., Shipley, P. G., iMcCoUum, E. V., and Simmonds, N. Studies 

in Experimental Rickets. XIV. The Prevention of tlie Development of Rickets in 

Rats by Sunlight. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 159-165. 
Robinson, C. S., and Bandemere, S. L. The Determination of Carbon Dioxide in Baking 

Powder. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1922, 14: 119. 
Rose, M. S., and MacLeod, G. Some Human Digestion Experiments with Raw WTiite of 

Egg. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 50: 83-88. 
Se>Tnour-Jones, S. L. The Chemical Constituents of Skin. / . Ind. Eng. Chem., 1922, 14: 

130-132. 
Stammers, A. D. The Value of Steam DbtUIed Pahn-Kemel Oil as a Control Fat in Vitamin 

Feeding Experiments. II. WTieat Bran as a Source of Vitamins A and B. Biochem. J., 

1921, 15: 489-493. 
Sullivan, M. X., and Jones, K. K. The Chemical Composition of the Rankin Farm Pellagra 

Producing Experimental Diet. Hyg. Lai. Bull., 1920, 120: 117-126. 
Tobey, J. A. Getting a Diploma in Nutrition. Mod. Hasp., 1912, \?,:SS. 
Tozer, F. M. Effect of a Diet Deficient in Fat on the Bone Tissue (Rib Junctions) of Kit- 
tens. Biochem. J., 1921, 15: 28-29. 
Van Arsdale, ^I. B., and Monroe, D. Food Education and the Community. Teachers 

College Record, 1921, 22: 420-427. 
Wright, S. Effect of B Vitamine on Appetite. Lancet, 1921, 2: 1208. 
Zilva, S. S., and Drummond, J. C. Vitamin A in Fish Liver Oils. Lancet, 1921, 2: 753-754. 
Zilva, S. S., and Miura, M. The Quantitative Estimation of Fat Soluble Factor. Biochem. 

J., 1921, 15:654-659. 
Undernourished School Children. Nal'lSchool Digest, 1922, 41 : 303-304. 
Underprocessed Canned Vegetables and Fruits the Jlost Frequent Cause of Botulism. 

Am. Food. J., 1921, 16: 21. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

THE "home economics SPECIAL" TO CORVALLIS 

Since the announcement, in the March Journal, that the Home Economics Association 
is making arrangements for a special train, Chicago to Portland, a surprising amount of 
interest has been shown in the plan. The Special train can be made a decided asset to the 
Annual Meeting. The advantages are numerous. 

1. The sleepers will not be overcrowded; the diner, club car, and observation car will be 
occupied only by our own party. 

2. People gathering at centralized points can travel to Chicago or Minneapolis in special 
car parties. These cars can then be attached to the special train. 

3. The days together on the "Home Economics Special" will give an opportunity for 
making and renewing acquaintances, for increased sociability and a genuine good time before 
the meeting begins. 

4. The scenic attractions are unsurpassed in America. The route chosen is the "Burling- 
ton"' — Chicago to Minneapolis; the "Great Northern" — Minneapolis to Portland. The 
Burlington between Chicago and St. Paul has been called "The Mississippi River Scenic 
Line." Beyond St. Paul, the Great Northern follows the west bank of the Mississippi 
through the picturesque section of the Lake Park Region of Minnesota, to St. Cloud. From 
Havre westward to the Rockies, there lie vast plains and cattle country. The crossing of 
the main ranges of the Rockies and their intermediate valleys includes mountains and river 
scenes of remarkable grandeur. Adjoining the big ranches of the cattle country is the 
Elackfeet Indian Reservation. To the west, lies Glacier National Park where a two-day 
stop-over has been arranged. Spokane is a short distance beyond Glacier Park. From this 
point, the line traverses the Wenatchee Valley, climbs the Cascade Range, and loops down 
the Pacific slope to Puget Sound, whose shoreline it follows to Seattle. It is an over-night 
ride down a beautiful valley near to the foot of Mt. Ranier, into Portland. 

The schedule, Chicago to Portland, is as announced on page 152 of the March Jouknal. 
The Portland business and civic organizations have plaimed an auto trip around Portland 
and up the highway, starting about 9: 30 a.m. July 31. This day promises to be one of the 
most interesting and delightful features of our entire entertainment. 

The cost of this trip from Chicago, including round trip railroad ticket, sleeper from 
Chicago to Portland, meals en route, and two days' side trip in Glacier Park, wiU be approxi- 
mately $150. The expense to be added on the return journey will depend largely upon the 
route selected and the length of the stay on the coast. 

Complete details regarding returning routes, the cost of round trip tickets from the principal 
cities, as well as instructions for the purchase of tickets will appear in the IMay Journal. 

Address any questions to Nina Streeter, Chairman, Travel Committee, 1370 East 54th St., 
Chicago. 

Reservations for acconmiodations during the Convention should be made with the Director 
of Dormitories, Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Oregon, at as early a date as possible. 

THE FARM HOME AND THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CONFERENCE 

Farm women and farm homes had a place in the great National Agricultural Conference 
called by President Harding January 23-27 at Washington. 

The matter to be considered by the committee on rural population and the farm home 
was the part the farm home plays in the national policy, attention being directed to the farm 

197 



198 THE JOCRXAL OF HOitE ECONOMICS [April 

home as a living place, the farm standard of living, rural housing, and the wife's partner- 
ship in farming enterprises. 

Out of 26 women from 21 states invited as official delegates, 18 accepted. The chairman 
of the committee on the farm home was Mrs. J. C. Ketcham, of Hastings, Michigan, who 
has served on important committees of the ."Vmerican Farm Bureau Federation and of the 
National Grange. The other women members of the Committee were: Mrs. Nellie E. 
Blakeman, of Oronoque, Conn., a member of the home economics committee of the National 
Grange; Neale S. Knowles, of Ames, Iowa, State Leader of extension work with farm women; 
Mrs. W. A. Mather, of Adams, N. Y., a member of the New York State Executive Com- 
mittee, Home Bureau; Mrs. Charles W. Sewell, of Otterbein, Indiana, a leader of state 
movements for home betterment; Mrs. Carl Williams, of Oklahoma City, editor of an agri- 
cultural journal. The three men members were: Bradford Knapp, dean of the state agri- 
cultural college, Fayettevolle, Ark., George Martin, Editor of Farm and Fireside, New York 
City, and \V. J. Thompson, South China, Maine, Master of the State Grange. Agnes Harris, 
Office of Extension Work, U. S. Dept. of Agr., acted as secretary of the committee. 

Mrs. Ketcham and Mrs. Sewell presented the report of the committee to the main con- 
ference. The recommendations were as follows: 

(1) Agricultural and economic conditions largely determine the standards of living in 
the farm home. Economic reforms along the lines of cooperative marketing and finance 
are readily translated into better homes. While working along economic lines every eflEort 
should be made to maintain good standards of home life and to stress those ideals of high type 
homes that shall give to rural life the satisfaction, attractiveness, dignity, and power to 
which it is justly entitled. 

(2) Recognizing that the farm home is the heart, not only of American agriculture, but 
of the nation as well, we strongly urge that its power and influence be fuUy appreciated and 
used, through the appointment of farm women as well as farm men to official positions in 
farm organizations, and through the selection of farm women for service on important Na- 
tional and State boards. The equal representation of country and city homes will add to 
the dignity of country life and serve to bring about a better understanding between country, 
town, and cit>'. 

(3) We realize that the morale of the farm families must be kept up and that the first 
and most important means in accomplishing this is self-help. This should be supplemented 
by the enthusiasm which comes from united effort in community groups and organization, 
and the aid of the church, the school, the extension serv-ice, and all other forces effectively 
cooperating in an earnest endeavor to do worth while things as they come to hand, working 
toward ultimate relief through every means recommended by this conference. 

(4) In view of the growing demand for educational assistance from the extension service 
of the State Agricultural College, because of an increase in the groups of farm families asso- 
ciated together for mutual help, no matter under what names, a greater number of public 
extension workers is needed, especially in the interest of the farm home. We subscribe 
cordially to the principle that all extension workers should be employed only with public 
funds and should serve with equal zeal all groups or organizations of people without dis- 
tinction. Extension work should be a public educational service for rural people. 

(5) Recognizing the excellent organized work that has been conducted by farm men and 
women in many communities, we strongly recommend that agricultural organizations em- 
phasize in their definite programs a study of food, clothing, housing, child care, and higher 
life as related to the high standard home, which is our goal. 

(6) In view of the fact that farm tenancy is seriously increasing and thereby endangering 
the stabiHty of the farm home in some sections of the country we wish to encourage farm 
ownership. 

(7) We desire to commend Congress and the President for the passage of the Maternity 
Act, 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



199 



(8) We endorse the Home Economics Amendment to the Federal Vocational Educational 
Act. 

(9) Assured that the future of Agriculture depends upon the training of farm boys and 
girls for farm home and community life, we recommend such training as a vital factor in 
development of leadership, community spirit, cooperative study, and the use of new and 
improved methods in agriculture and social life in the country. We urge that farm men 
and women take an active part in the organization and maintenance of some type of group 
work for boys and girls, that by this method the joys and dignity of agriculture as a pro- 
fession can be developed as in no other way. 

(10) We strongly recommend the conser\'ation of the American farm home. It offers 
the best opportunity for tlie development of ideal family life in which the farmer and his 
wife are equal partners in work, social life, and business and in which the children have an 
opportunity to become junior partners in the management of the farm and home. 

Other women who were delegates to the Agricultural Conference and the committees on 
which they served were as follows: Farm Population — Jlrs. H. F. Chaffee, Amenia, North 
Dakota, Mrs. L. C. Chappie, Lykesland, South CaroUna, Jlrs. J. W. Jones, Olney, Maryland, 
Mrs. W. C. IMartin, Dallas, Te.xas. Transportation — Mrs. Frank M. Black, Myersdale, 
Peimsylvania. Marketing of Farm Products — jNIrs. Edward P. Costigan, Washington, D. C, 
Mary E. Pennington, Xew York City, INIrs. Russell Tyson, Chicago. National Forest 
Policy— Mrs. Maude Wood Park, Mrs. B. John Black, Rosyln, JIaryland, Mrs. ."Mbert 
Manning, Otisville, New York, Mrs. Thomas G. Winter, President Federation of Women's 
Clubs, Minneapolis. 



The University of Arizona. Adelaide 
Baylor, of the Federal Board for Vocational 
Education, recently visited the University 
of -Arizona, to study the teacher training 
courses given at this institution in vocational 
homemaking. 

The Foods and Nutrition Department is 
carrying on a series of rat feeding experi- 
ments to show the possibilities of such experi- 
ments in teaching nutrition classes and in 
home demonstration lectures. 

Students in nutrition have organized a 
health class in one of the public schools of 
the city. They have the hearty cooperation 
of the city superintendent of schools, the 
principals, and the school nurses. 

CALIFORXL\ 

California Home Economics Association. 

The perfection of our share in the regional 
plan for national organization has occupied 
the "leisure" of the State Council members. 
A visit from Miss Weigley in November 
helped greatly to clarify our difficulties, and 
the president is happy to report that state 
affiliation under the regional plan is effected 



with the forwarding of a check from the 
treasurer to the amount of $171. This 
sum wiU be larger next year since units 
within the sections are organizing. 

Home economics teachers everywhere are 
awakening to the tremendous value of 
organization. We now have a Bay Section, 
a Central Section, a Southern Section, and 
requests have come for assistance in organ- 
izing a Northern Section. 

Cahfomia has pledged $680 in contributing 
and sustaining memberships toward the 
Executive Secretary Fund of the American 
Home Economics .Association. 



Florida Home Economics Association. 
The Home Economics section of the Florida 
State Educational INIeeting held its meeting 
on December 29th, with Lucy Cushman, 
State Supervisor of Home Economics, 
presiding. The program follows: How to 
Interest High School Girls in Home Eco- 
nomics, Adelaide Baylor, .\gent for Home 
Economics Education, Federal Board for 
Vocadonal Education; Athliation of the 
Florida Home Economics .Associadon with 



200 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



the American Home Economics Association, 
Harriette Layton, Assistant State Home 
Demonstration Agent; A Place for the 
Commercial Home Economics Workers in 
the National Home Economics Association, 
Mary Keown; Round Table discussion, led 
by Mrs. George Atkinson, Dean of Home 
Economics at Florida State College for 
Women. 



The University of Chicago. Arrange- 
ments have already been made for a number 
of outside members of the faculty for the 
coming summer quarter, in addition to all 
the regular staff. Among others may be 
mentioned Pearl Ruby now assistant pro- 
fessor of home economics at Kansas Agri- 
cultural CoUege, formerly in charge of the 
A. R. C. nutrition work in Wichita; Florence 
Williams, supervisor of industrial arts in 
Richmond, Ind., and one of the authors of 
the monograph. Home Economics in Ameri- 
can Schools; and Regina Friant, formerly 
supervisor of vocational home economics in 
Missouri, now taking graduate work at the 
University. 

Miss Ruby will teach elementary nutri- 
tion and dietaries and wUi work with Miss 
Roberts in the Child Health School; Miss 
Williams wiU give courses in costume design, 
and Miss Friant in methods of teaching food 
and nutrition and home management. 

The Art Institute of Chicago has con- 
ducted, through its extension department, 
the Better Homes Institute in upward of 
100 cities. The institute is an organized 
project for community welfare, and is under 
the direction of Ross Crane, head of the 
extension department, and Mrs. P. A. 
Spaulding, organization manager. 



Farm and Home Week at Kansas State 
Agricultural College. The week of February 
6 to 11 was Farm and Home Week, and the 
entire college plant was placed at the service 
of the visitors. Under the direcrion of 
Dr. Helen B. Thompson, Dean of the 
Division of Home Economics, a four-day 



short course in home economics was given. 
Addresses and discussions covered a wide 
range of subjects of interest to women. 
Dr. Louise Stanley, University of ilissouri, 
told of important legislative measures affect- 
ing the home. Prof. Louise Glanton reported 
on a survey of clothing purchasing habits in 
Kansas, and the students gave demonstra- 
tions on clothing selection and construction 
standards. Miss Crigler and Mrs. SewaU 
discussed the possibilities of home demon- 
stration work. Miss Kneeland urged the 
use of budgeting — an account book for 
Kansas homes. Child health was not neg- 
lected; Miss Leazenby reported the work of 
the health center, and iliss Ruby the teach- 
ing of health to the school child. There 
were clothing e.xhibits, visits to the practice 
house, and talks and exhibits on house 
furnishing. 

There was a special program for the 
Boys' and Girls' Club Department. The 
girls gave demonstrations and held contests. 
There were stunts, playlets, trips around the 
campus, and visits to the college farm. 
Plans for the coming year were formulated. 

NEW ENGLAND 

New England Home Economics Asso- 
ciation. The February meeting of the New 
England Home Economics Association was 
given over to a discussion of better home 
furnishings, led by Royal B. Famum, 
Principal Normal Art School, Boston. 
Antoinette Roof, president, was the pre- 
siding officer. 

The association is offering a course of 
seven lectures on Mental Development and 
the Child Welfare Program, by Dr. Abraham 
Myerson and Dr. A. Warren Steams of 
Tufts Medical School, and Prof. Walter 
Dearborn of the Graduate School of Educa- 
tion of Harvard University. 

The Girls' League of the Brookline High 
School. This league was established last 
year. Every girl in the high school is con- 
sidered a member of the league, and each 
year two members of the faculty are elected 
to serve as advisory members. At the begin- 
ning of this year the committee on advisors 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



201 



chose sixty picked girls from the Junior and 
Senior classes. Each of these girls was 
given four new Freshman whom they were 
to interest in athletics, glee club, dramatics, 
honorary society, debating, and all organi- 
zations, and to whom they were to explain 
the rules of the school. This was a great 
help to the faculty especially at the begin- 
ning of the year when each teacher was given 
two girls on whom she could rely for all 
errands and messages. The committee on 
classroom affairs have taken it upon them- 
selves to beautify the school building and 
to make the teachers' room attractive and 
they send letters and flowers to girls who 
are ill. Some discussion among the towns- 
people as to the dress and appearance of 
high school girls reacted in the following 
resolution submitted by the Executive 
Board of the Girls' League and signed by 
every girl in the school: 

"The girls of Brookline High School 
should look, dress, and act like high school 
girls. Peter Pan dresses or any simple 
woolen dresses, ginghams, shirt waists and 
skirts (with or without sweaters), or middies 
and skirts are most suitable for school wear. 
Georgette waists, or very thin waists of any 
material are not appropriate for school, nor 
are sweaters without waists worn by well- 
dressed, refined girls. Thin sUk or fancy 
stockings are not suitable for morning wear. 
The girls should not indulge in the use of 
rouge or in the excessive use of powder. 
Arranging the hair in extreme styles is not 
appropriate for a girl of high school age." 

"Bad taste in dress and appearance shown 
by even a few girls injures every other girl 
in the school. Let us be sure that we, as 
individuals, do nothing to cause adverse 
criticism of our school. The finer its repu- 
tation, the greater will be our pride as 
students and alumnae." 



The Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York. The feature of the 
program of the January meeting was an 
address by Mr. Hobart Upjohn, architect, 
who told of the modem self-help house. 



His points were illustrated by pictures 
showing good and poor routing of kitchens, 
desirable arrangements of windows and 
doors, and proper placing of furniture. 
Although the kitchen was emphasized, 
general principles of step-saving in house 
plarming were given. 

New York Wholesale Grocers' Asso- 
ciation. At the annual convention of the 
New York Wholesale Grocers' Association, 
in New York City, February 15th, May B. 
Van Arsdale gave an address on What the 
Public does not Know about Food Distri- 
bution. It is a significant recognition of 
the work of home economics that such 
organizations as the wholesale grocers, the 
canners, and the bakers are asking women 
in our field to talk frankly with them, 
telling what the women of the country 
want, and what can be done toward a better 
understanding between the hou3e%vife and 
the men who handle food for her. 

Department of Public Welfare and the 
Health Exposition. The Department of 
Public Welfare of the City of New York 
maintains a number of important public 
hospitals and chronic institutions, including 
the Metropolitan Hospital, City Hospital, 
Home for the Aged and Infirm, and Central 
Neurological Hospital on Welfare Island; 
Kings County Hospital, Greenpoint Hospi- 
tal, Cumberland Street Hospital, and Coney 
Island Hospital in the Borough of Brooklyn; 
Sea View Hospital on Staten Island; and 
the New York City Children's Hospital on 
Randall's Island. 

The Health Exposition in the Grand 
Central Palace provided exhibits of inter- 
esting phases of the development in various 
branches of municipal departments per- 
taining to the well-being of the people in 
general and to the city charges in the various 
public institutions. 

The exhibit contributed by Commissioner 
Bird S. Coler of the Department of Public 
Welfare specialized in three phases of its 
work: (1) The laboratory kitchen work 
done by dietitians and nurses. (2) Occupa- 
tional therapy work of patients and in- 
mates. (3) Equipment provided for nurses 
in training, together with the home and 



202 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



school atmosphere of a nurse's life while at 
work or in training. 

The laboratory was displayed in an open 
square, showing typical equipment of a 
small kitchen. This included a vegetable 
sink properly lighted, sufficiently deep, and 
fitted with draining baskets; a new type of 
dish washer which could be used for ster- 
ilizing tray dishes and small utensils; a food 
mixer with several attachments; the best 
quality of aluminum cooking utensils, exem- 
plifying labor and food saving for the nurse 
and dietitian and comprising some of the 
new forms such as the narrow deep double 
boiler, the replaceable cold handle on sauce 
pots; an array of cutlery; suitable tray racks 
and tray carts with acceptable china and 
glassware; silver and trays for institutional 
use, showing ice cream shells used as vege- 
table dishes because of the lip for handling; 
celery trays which will carry two or three 
vegetables for special diets; and other articles 
such as the individual easUy washable salt 
dish so necessary for sick room service, open 
sugar basins which can be used for other 
foods, marmites to keep food hot, proper 
jugs for cocoa and hot water, and glass and 
porcelain top tables. 

The food shown illustrated the project 
method of teaching nurses cookery and 
diet, and typified diabetic and salt free diets, 
concentrated gruels, malnutrition dietaries, 
regimes for the overfed, food for the tuber- 
cular. A tray contained the materials used 
in the departmental hospitals for the pre- 
scription modification of infants' feedings, 
including certified milk and without pro- 
vision for pasteurization or sterilization of 
the feedings. 

The outlines of the course in cookery for 
students and attendants was explained. 
Special emphasis was given to the tentative 
outline under consideration by the -American 
Dietetic Association. The hostesses in this 
part of the exhibit were thirty dietitians 
of the Department of Public Welfare. 

Flanking the open square where the 
kitchen laboratory work was displa}'ed, was 
an elaborate exhibit of occupational therapy. 

The nursing department was centralized 
in a sample bedroom typifying the rooms 



that the nurses occupy in the various homes 
for the nurses of the department. Treat- 
ment trays and other equipment were shown, 
and there was a large attendance of nurses 
ready and always willing to e.xplain the 
courses in the training schools. The nurses 
and internes, at various times, gave enter- 
tainments, typifying the hfe of the profes- 
sional nurse in a large pubhc hospital. 

NORTH DAKOTA 

The University of North Dakota. North 
Dakota newspapers are printing testimonials 
to the popularity and public appreciation of 
the work in actual child care undertaken 
by the home economics department of the 
University. Baby Mary has finished her 
first year La the practice house. Each girl 
in the cottage has entire charge of her for 
12 days at a time. Her food, mending, and 
laundry work are taken over by her manager. 

This training is considered by the depart- 
ment as an important part of the course in 
home management. Probably no one aspect 
of the work has aroused more favorable 
comment than this practical demonstration 
of the functioning of home economics 
training. 



At East Technical High School, Cleve- 
land a course called "The Home and Its Man- 
agement" is being offered in the twelfth year 
by Carlotta C. Greer, Head of the H. E. 
Department. In this course special empha- 
sis is placed upon buying for the home. This 
phase of household management is being 
carried out effectively by means of field 
trips. Instead of the occasional field trip, 
in which a number of stores are visited or a 
number of different articles are investigated 
at one time, an excursion to one department 
of a store (or possibly of two stores in the 
same vicinity) is made each week. For 
these excursions the usual laboratory period 
of ninety minutes is allowed. Usually but 
one article is investigated on each trip. In 
addition, the pupils taking this course have 
four 45-minute recitation periods per week. 
In this way, it is hoped that an effective 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



203 



knowledge of the quality and value of equip- 
ment and furnishings for the home will be 
gained. The course with this particular 
emphasis has not been given for a long 
enough period of time to pronounce it a 
satisfactory plan; it promises success, how- 
ever. In a district, such as that of East 
Technical High School, in which a large 
percentage of girls on leaving school or on 
graduating engage in some type of business 
occupation, specific training in buying for 
the home appears to be necessary. 

Diet Standards of School Children. 
In Akron, Ohio, it was found that, out of 
1,011 children weighed and measured under 
the direction of school authorities, 58 per 
cent were underweight, nearly a fourth of 
these being more than 10 per cent under- 
weight. After two months effort in teaching 
these children how to improve their diet, 
67 per cent had made some gain. The home 
demonstration agent then met with the 
mothers to demonstrate the results and to 
explain how to plan meals. The proper 
number of hours sleep and other health 
habits, such as deep breathing and teeth 
brushing, were also emphasized. 

The demonstration was followed by weekly 
conferences of the mothers with doctor, 
nurse, and home demonstration agent, at 
which the health record for the week was 
e.xamined, the weekly weights taken, and 
additional instruction and advice given the 
parents. As a result ahnost every mother 
now reports inteUigent interest on the part 
of the children. 

SOUTH DAKOT.\ 

The University of South Dakota. This 
year there has been a rapid development in 
the department of home economics at the 
University. Enrollment has increased in all 
courses, especially in the classes in clothing. 
Dress forms made by the students have been 
the center of attraction in the dressmaking 
classes. 

A catering course adds to the attractive- 
ness of the food department. This is an 
advanced food course offered as an elective, 
and consists in planning, preparing, and serv- 



ing dinners and luncheons to a number of 
people. These are real "company" dinners 
given by faculty members or residents of 
the town who are desirous of entertaining 
their friends and who are willing to pay 
the department for providing them with 
expert caterers. 

The practice house is another important 
feature this year. One of the professors 
consented to board at the house and the 
girls have the unusual experience of feeding 
a man. 

As a result of the growth of the depart- 
ment, the Home Economics Club has grown 
also. All the work of the club is planned 
and carried on by the members. 

The Department of Physiology and the 
Department of Home Economics at the 
University are cooperating in some experi- 
ments along dietary lines. 



The University of Vermont. The home 
economics department, which was opened 
at the University 13 years ago with Pro- 
fessor Bertha M. Terrill, the present head 
of the department, as the organizer and 
only instructor for the first two years, has 
grown until it now numbers 90 major 
students of the course, who are candidates 
for the degree of bachelor of science in 
home economics, besides minor elective 
classes from the college of arts and sciences 
and students of the teacher-training class, 
who are required to take one year of home 
economics as a part of their two-year course. 

There are now five members on the staff 
of the home economics faculty at the Uni- 
versity, including Professor Bertha M. 
Terrill, head of the department, Professor 
Alice E. Blundell, Edna C. Whitcomb, 
Jessie M. Winchell, and Mary Shallenberger. 

Next fall Howard HaU will be used as a 
practice house. The girls in the home 
economics department will determine the 
equipment and arrangement of kitchen and 
laundry, will plan the refinishing, redecorat- 
ing, and furnishing throughout, under the 
guidance of the members of the department 
staff, who win live at Howard Hall. 



204 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



WEST VIRGI>.'IA 

Farmer's Week at West Virginia Uni- 
versity. The part of the program for the 
women included five classes which met 
several hours each morning. These classes 
were landscape gardening, poultry, short 
cuts in sewing, millinery, and menu planning. 
The afternoons were devoted to the business 
of Farm Women's Clubs and the Farm 
Bureau Federation. Mrs. McClung, re- 
tiring State President of Farm Women's 
Clubs, reported 96 clubs with total enroll- 
ment of 2075. There are seven new home 
central committees and four sub-committees, 
namely, schools, public health, law relating 
to and affecting women and children, and 
recreation. The Farm Women's Education 
or Loan Fund has on hand the sum of 
$916 to be loaned to farm girls who carmot 
otherwise get an education. Poultry raising 
has been the most extensive work, seventy- 
five per cent of the poultry work of the 
state being done by women. Fifty-six 
demonstrations in poultry by farmers and 
farmers' wives produced a net profit of 
$1500. More than 1000 demonstrations in 
sewing, interior decoration, household con- 
veniences, and foods have been given by 
home demonstration agents. 

At a tea given by the Home Economics 
Department the guests were divided into 
groups of fifteen with a home economics 
major as guide. The guides led their groups 
to each of the following stops : an exhibit pre- 
pared by the class in housewifery, where a 
student demonstrated the cleaning of silver- 
ware; the work of the class in textiles, where 
a student conducted a test for weighted 
sUk; the work of the class in senior clothing, 
where sLx seniors appeared from behind a 
screen dressed in make-over problems and 
gave rhjTnes telling about them; the die- 
tetics laboratory, where a senior student 
demonstrated menu-making by showing 
sample meals and substitutes; the apart- 
ment, where the freshman students served 
tea; the clothing laboratory, where a fresh- 
man demonstrated the making of button 
holes on the sewing machine. 



Better Babies at West Allls, Wis. 
The new high school at West Allis has a 
Chase washable doll, complete layette, 
small wooden bed (made by the boys), tub, 
basin, towels, and other necessary equip- 
ment for a course on infant care. The 
home economics girls raised the money for 
this equipment by having a bazaar. At 
the beginning of each semester, the seventh 
grade girls are given a detailed demonstra- 
tion on bathing a baby. This demonstra- 
tion is prefaced by a discussion of the care 
of babies so that the girls feel that it is a 
privilege to care for them. Each girl is 
given a chance to bathe the doU baby. 
However, this work covers a semester's 
time so that it is never monotonous — 
instead, each time the baby is bathed the 
girls are delighted and the review is effective. 

The infant care course correlates very 
nicely with sewing, since the sewing now 
consists of making infant clothes. The 
girls make such articles as dresses, flannel 
gertrudes, and flannel night dresses for the 
poor babies of our city. The garments are 
simply made with emphasis on flat seams 
and dainty, Inexpensive trimmings. Besides 
bathing the baby and making a layette, the 
girls leam how to make a bed properly and 
why and how to register a baby's birth, and 
are prepared for the food work of the next 
semester which includes lessons on feeding 
infants. Girls in tliis grade are stiU very 
much Interested in babies — in fact most of 
them actually do take care of babies. Soon 
after the seventh grade, the children that 
need the work most begin leaving school. 

One of the greatest values from this work 
is the development of citizenship. The 
success of the whole course depends on the 
unselfishness of the girls. They are all 
eager to sew for tliemselves but there has 
been no time when they were not delighted 
to think that they were helping some unfor- 
tunate babies. There have been several 
cases where these little seventh grade girls 
showed foreign mothers in our community 
how to bathe their babies correctly. Does 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



205 



this not connect the home and school in a 
vital manner? 



Elva Helen Clarke, a former teacher in 
the Omaha schools, has completed her work 
at?;the University of South Dakota and 
accepted a position in the food department 
at the University of Illinois. 

Emma Conley is the new State Supervisor 
of Home Economics for New York. She 
was formerly State Supervisor of Home 
Economics for Wisconsin and during the 
past four years has been in charge of the 
Home Economics Extension Division, Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin. 

Professor Louise P. Glanton, Head of the 
Department of Clothing and Textiles, 
Kansas State Agricultural College, ^-ill spend 
the summer vacation in Europe investigating 
conditions in the textile industries. Miss 
Glanton will visit the Piedmont silk region 
of Italy and the linen producing sections of 
Ireland, near Belfast. She will also spend 
some time in Paris observing the work of 
costume designers and modistes. 

Cora E. Gray, who resigned her position 
as Dean of Home Economics at Florida 
State College for Women, is studjang at 
Columbia University. Mrs. George Atkin- 
son was appointed as Aliss Gray's successor. 
Ava B. Milam, Dean of the School of 
Home Economics of the Oregon Agricultural 
College, has been granted a two years' leave 
of absence and will go to China to under- 
take the establishment of a department of 
home economics in Yenching College, the 
woman's division of the University of Peking. 
Camilla Mills, a graduate of the School of 
Home Economics of the Oregon Agricultural 
College, will accompany iliss Milam as her 
assistant. The first part of this leave Miss 
Milam will devote to a study of the home 
life of China. The second year she will or- 
ganize the department of home economics 
and help in the plans and equipment of a 
small building suited to tliis work. At 
the end of iliss Milam's leave she expects 
to return to the Oregon Agricultural College. 



Miss Mills will carry on the work in 
Peking. This project is financed by the 
Woman's Foreign Mission Board of the 
Jlethodist Episcopal Church and by Peking 
University which is a union college. During 
Miss Milam's absence from Oregon her work 
^\ill be handled by an executive committee 
consisting of the present heads of home 
economics departments. 

Lottie Milam, M.A., Teachers CoUege, 
August, 1921, has been appointed as special- 
ist in home management for IMontana. 

Gladys Smith has been recently appointed 
nutrition specialist on the Florida Home 
Demonstration Staff. 

Dr. Helen B. Thompson, Dean of the 
Division of Home Economics, Kansas State 
Agricultural College, will give courses in 
nutrition and in home economics education 
in the summer session of the University of 
California. 

Emma Winslow, who resigned from her 
position as Home Economics Specialist for 
the Charity Organization Society of New 
York, and Lecturer in Household Economics 
at Teachers College, Columbia University, to 
pursue graduate study for her doctor's 
degree in Economics and Sociology at the 
University of London, reports a very inter- 
esting year in the English capital. She is 
following courses witli Professors Bowley, 
Hobhouse, Westermark, Sydney Webb, and 
other scholars of international reputarion. 
Miss Winslow is one of the first women with 
home economics training to go on for special 
advanced work in economics and sociology — 
a field in which leaders in home economics 
have long been hoping that persons of 
special preparation might appear 

The United States Civil Service Com- 
mission announces an open competitive 
examination for Junior in Home Economics 
April 18; for domestic science teachers in the 
Indian Service April 26, and June 7; for 
matron in the Indian Service May 3, and 
June 21. 

Three Fellowships in Social-Economic 
Research are offered to women who wish 
thorough preparation for such work. The 



206 



TIIE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



fellowships carry a stipend of SSOO and cleri- 
cal assistance, equipment, and traveling ex- 
penses necessary for the investigation. 

Applications must be filed before May 1st. 
Address inquiries to the Department of Re- 
search, Women's Educational and Industrial 
Union, 264 Boylston Street, Boston 17, 
Mass. 

The National League of Women Voters 
will hold its Third Annual Convention 
April 24-29. The League has called a Pan- 
American Conference of Women for April 20- 
29. Both conferences will be held in Balti- 
more, Maryland, with headquarters at the 
Belvedere Hotel. For furtlier information 
address National League of Women Voters, 
918 Munsey Bldg., Washington, D. C. 



Mrs. Norton's Work Popular In Con- 
stantinople. The New York office of the 
.American College for Girls at Constantinople 
reports a letter dated December 30th from 
Dr. Mary Mills Patrick, President of the 
College, in which she says: "Mrs. Norton 
has made a large place for herself here, not 
only because of her abUity in home eco- 
nomics, but also in her journalistic training. 
She has become well known in the city and 
has recently become Chairman of the Publi- 
cation Committee of a prominent organiza- 
tion to promote friendliness among the 
nations of the Near East. Her influence as 
a dietitian in the domestic department is 
strong." 

Miss M. E. Roberts, Technical College, 
George and Regent Streets, Sydney, Aus- 
tralia, is beginning cafeteria work in the 
College. 

The Feeding of the Children In 
Austria is divided between the .American 
Relief Administration and the American 
Friends' Service Committee. At the pres- 
ent time the largest part of the work of the 
American Relief Administration is being 



done in Russia though there are still one or 
two of their stations in Poland, and only as 
far back as July they were feeding about 
300,000 children in Austria. 

The plan for the feeding of children in 
Austria was developed by Dr. Clemens von 
Pirquet, who was formerly at Johns Hopkins 
and who gave the Silliman lectures at Yale 
University in February. Dr. von Pirquet 
is the outstanding specialist on children's 
diseases in \'ienna. 

School for Servants. A visitor to 
Denmark would be very much interested 
in the schools intended for the training of 
servants. The School for Household Arts, 
Crown Princesse Louise, has a two year 
course for 36 to 40 girls. The students are 
trained through a boarding house maintained 
by the school, in which the girls do the work. 
They pay a monthly tuition of 25 Crowns 
each and are on duty daily with the excep- 
tion of one afternoon a week and every other 
Sunday. Fourteen days leave in the summer 
are also granted. A diploma is given at 
the end of the course. 

Nutrition Work. In Germany the 
outstanding piece of work of interest to the 
home economics trained woman is the nutri- 
tion work carried on by the American 
Friends' Service Committee. In July there 
were about 1,000 stations in various parts 
of Germany feeding approximately 1,000,000 
children daily. The food is intended as a 
supplementary meal containing 667 calories. 
No child is admitted who is not found 
by physical examination to be under-nour- 
ished. The Rohrer index is used. 

Seven food stuffs, including flour, rice, 
sugar, condensed milk, cocoa, beans, and 
vegetable fat are used in the child feeding 
work. The menus are worked out by 
Frieda Burkle, a home economics woman 
from Boston. She has been requested to 
prepare for the Journal an article describing 
her work. 



Vol. Xrv, No. 5 May, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those Interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

.\Ia»y de Gazuo Bryan, Edilor Ketdsah E. Baldwin, Buiiiun Editai 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lahoworthy Amy Daniels Katharine Fisher Grace G. Dimnr 

Edilor 0/ "The Question Box," Amy Daniels 
Associate Editors 
Day MoNRop, News 

Edith Barber and Mildred Weigley, Social Welfare and the Home 
Florence Ward, Extension 

Katharine Bldnt and Sybil Woodruep, Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell and Emma Conley, Education 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Mabel Little, Institution Economics 
AUCE BiESTER, Bibliography 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Mass Child Feeding in Germany Frieda M. Burkle 207 

Recent Developments in the Scouring and Bleaching of Cotton Lillian B. Storms 212 

A Course in Marketing N. Beth Bailey 220 

Special Methods Course in Home Economics Efic I. Raitl 223 

Basal Met.abolism and Food Consumption of Underweight College Women 

Katharine Blunt and Virginia Bauer 226 
Current Home Economics Research in American Colleges and Universities and in 

Government Institutions ... .... 233 

Editorial 238 

The Open Forum 240 

The Question Box 241 

Books and Literature 243 

News from the Field 249 

The Home Economics Special 249 



The Journal op Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
J2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the dale of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

vMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Tai Journal or Houx Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boatoa; 
A. C. McOnrg & Co., Chicago; HochscUld, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Ix>throp, Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



IN all recipes calling 
for baking powder, 
insure successful re- 
sults by using Royal 
Baking Powder (abso- 
lutely pure). 

It is conceded by do- 
mestic science teachers 
and baking experts the 
world over to be ^^the 
most healthful and 
dependable baking 
powder made." Royal 
contains no alum. 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV MAY, 1922 No. 5 

MASS CHILD FEEDING IN GERMANY 

FRIEDA M. BIIRKLE 
Americati Friends Service Cc»nmitlee, Berlin 

During the war the food supply in Germany had grown less and less. 
By 1917, the allowance for a grown person amounted approximately 
to 1100 calories a day. StarHng, in the "Feeding of Nations" gives 
3400 calories as the net requirement for an average man, and 2400 for 
the average woman. In many instances the government ration was 
supplemented by "schleichhandel" or smuggled food. The rank and 
file, however, could not make use of schleichhandel indefinitely, owing 
to the cost of the illegal food and the dangers involved in getting it. 
Anaemia, rickets, tuberculosis, and other manifestations of undernourish- 
ment had grown to such proportions in 1919 that immediate help was 
needed. Mr. Hoover asked the American Friends to organize mass 
feeding in Germany, and gave food and funds sufficient to carry on such 
program until the harvest of 1920. It was possible to continue and 
extend the work after this period by voluntary contributions from 
America, by food allocations and money from the American Relief 
Administration, from the European Children's Fund, and the German 
government. 

The food is similar to that used by the American ReKef Administra- 
tion for mass child feeding in other countries and is purchased in America. 
It is concentrated, transportable, durable material, such as lard, cocoa, 
evaporated milk, rice, beans, peas, sugar, and wheat flour. Since 
October, 1920, the German government has provided the sugar and flour. 
Lard has been replaced by vegetable fat, and peas have been omitted 
from the ration. The amount of food for a day's ration is based on the 
food value of a liter of milk. School children from 6 to 14 years of age 
receive 100 per cent or 667 calories ;i expectant and nursing mothers and 
also apprentices up to 18 years of age, 120 per cent or 800 calories; and 

'For the winter of 1921-1922 the ration is 590 calories. 

207 



208 



THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May- 



children below school age, 60 per cent or 400 calories. The food is 
given in the form of bread and soup. The quantity of soup has gradu- 
ally been reduced to | liter in order to restore to normal capacity the 
children's digestive organs, which had been distended by poor food. 

In order that the meal should serve as a supplement to the home food 
and not as a substitute for it, we have found that the most satisfactory 
time for the feeding is between 9.30 and 10.30 a.m. Such an hour does 
not interfere with the main meals of the day; the attendance is more 
regular; the actual gain in weight and height has been greater where it 
has been possible to put the feeding at this hour. WTiere this could 
not be done, we have recommended 4 p.m. though this hour has draw- 
backs in the winter days when it begins to grow dark soon after 3.30 
or if, after being dismissed from school, the children need to return again 
for the feeding. No food is taken home. To prevent food from being 
left over, owing to absences which average 3 to 5 per cent a day, from 
3 to 5 per cent more children than the allotment are admitted. On 
one occasion when we visited one of the feeding centers we saw a child 
almost disappearing head downward into one of the 50 liter thermos 
kettles. When the little head reappeared above the brim, we asked 
the child why she was scraping out the kettle so vigorously. She 
answered : " I am the official licker. The doctor said I must have Quaker 
food, too, but there was no room for me, so I am allowed to come every 
day to hck out the cans." 

A cook book especially compiled for the use of the 7 food materials of 
the ration is in all kitchens. The menus are arranged to meet the needs 
of small kitchens, semi-large kitchens, and large central kitchens. Those 
in which 50 to 500 portions are prepared daily can have greater variety 
than those in which 20,000 to 35,000 portions are prepared. Semi- 
large kitchens, in which coal or gas is available in addition to the steam 
kettles, can vary the menu. By substitute recipes the menus are ad- 
justed to meet the differences in taste and method of cooking in various 
sections of the country. The following menus illustrate those in cook 
book Ilia for the use of ration Ilia in large central kitchens: 





Vegetable 
fat 


Cocoa 


Sugar 


Evap. 
orated 
milk 


Rice 


Flour 


Beans 


Weekly food in grams. . . 


65 


18 


130 


227 


112 


405 


85 




575 


80 


507 


386 


370 


1357 


271 







1922] 



MASS CHILD FEEDING IN GERMANY 



209 



Menus and recipes 



DAV 


MENC 


MATERIAL 


GRAMS PER 
PORTION 


CALORIES 


TOTAL 
CALORIES 




Cocoa 


cocoa 

sugar 

milk 

flour 


9.0 
40.0 
61.0 
15.0 






Monday ■ 




salt 


1.0 


350 






with rolls 


fat 

sugar 

flour 


6.0 

6.0 

50.0 










salt 


0.6 


224 


594 




Vegetable 


fat 


15.0 








Rice 


rice 
salt 


56.0 
3.5 






Tuesday ' 


with rolls 


onions 
fat 


5.0 
6.0 


318 












sugar 


6.0 










flour 


50.0 










salt 


0.6 


244 


562 




Milk 


fat 


9.0 








Soup 


milk 
flour 


50.0 
65.0 






Wednesday ' 


with rolls 


salt 
fat 
sugar 
flour 


3.5 

6.0 

6.0 

50.0 


388 








salt 


0.6 


244 


627 


Thursday 


Same as Monday 








594 




Milk 


sugar 


14.0 








Rice 


milk 
rice 


55.0 
56.0 






Friday 


with rolls 


salt 
fat 
sugar 
flour 


2.5 

6.0 

6.0 

50.0 


333 








salt 


0.6 


244 


577 




Bean soup 


fat 

flour 

beans 


5.0 
10.0 
85.0 






Saturday 


with rolls 


salt 
fat 


4.5 
6.0 


348 












sugar 


6.0 










flour 


50.0 










salt 


0.6 


244 


592 


Total 


3546 







210 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The mothers and children are examined for the feeding by physicians, 
according to regulations formulated by leading German child specialists. 
All school children are weighed, measured, and grouped in three classes 
according to their state of nourishment. Those in class I are normal, 
class II need help but are not yet in danger, and those in class III are 
seriously undernourished. The children selected for the feeding come 
from class III, regardless of their families' social, religious, or poHtical 
status. Experience has taught us that at least three months of unin- 
terrupted feeding are necessary to obtain any lasting recovery from seri- 
ous undernourishment and even then comparatively few cases can be 
dropped at the end of the first three months. 

To meet local problems efficiently and to understand the conditions in 
different parts of the country, Germany was divided into 9 administra- 
tive districts with one or more American leaders in each. These leaders, 
all volunteer workers, organized German committees who carry out the 
actual work and are responsible for all details of the feeding. They 
visit the cities, kitchens, and feeding centers from time to time to get in 
touch with the workers and children, and to see that the work is being 
carried out satisfactorily. A system of reports accounts for the food 
from the time it enters Germany until it is eaten; weekly records are 
kept of the number of mothers, apprentices, school children, and children 
below school age. The reports are sent from every community to the 
district office which in turn reports to headquarters in Berlin. 

District I comprises the industrial territory of the Rhine and Ruhr. It is a densely 
populated mining section, part of which is at present occupied by Belgian and French troops. 
The office is in the city of Essen. 

District II is territory occupied by the English and the feeding is carried on by the 
English Friends. The office is at Cologne. 

District III is the great export center of Germany and includes the seaport cities of 
Hamburg, Luebeck, and Bremen. The office and shipping department from which the 
food is transported to all parts of Germany is at Hamburg. 

District IV includes part of Prussia and the Prussian provinces; it stretches to the Polish 
corridor and beyond to the territory of East Prussia. The central administrative offices 
and the district office are located in Berlin. 

District V has its headquarters at Weimar, and includes Thuringia and part of Saxony. 
In this section toys, porcelain and optica! goods are made. 

District VI has its office at Frankfurt and includes the middle and southern sections of 
Germany, and French occupied territory in the Saar-VaUey, Pfalz, and along the Rhine. 
It is the main center of the dyeing industry. Oppau, the scene of the chemical disaster, is 
located in this district. 

District VII with headquarters in Dresden is the great home industry section. Cluny 
lace and five-sixths of the toys of the world are made here. 

District VIII with headquarters at Breslau includes Silesia which is also a great 
industrial center. 

District IX with headquarters at Munich is the agricultural section of south Germany. 



1922] MASS CHILD FEEDING IN GERMANY 211 

No attempt was made during the first feeding period to reach cities of 
less than 50,000. Since then feeding has spread throughout the land 
into aU places, where, according to statistics, the insufficient food supply 
had increased disease and mortality to such an extent that the health 
of the children of the whole community was in danger. By June, 1921, 
1,010,000 mothers and children were being fed every day in 1640 cities, 
towns, and villages. The cooking was prepared in 2271 kitchens and 
served in 8364 feeding centers. At this time the highest point in the 
feeding figures was reached. The average number fed during the year, 
from October, 1920, to the harvest of 1921, was 700,000, the low point 
being reached during the holidays when the feeding was carried on only 
in institutions. The $3,000,000 campaign conducted in America by 
Americans of German birth has assured the feeding of 500,000 until the 
harvest of 1922. 

The question in the mind of the reader will probably be: "Wliy is 
further reHef necessary, when so much has already been done?" Could 
you look into the homes, or observe the crowds going to work in the 
morning or returning in the evening, or see people purchasing food at 
the markets, you would get an idea of the low standard of nutrition and 
living. Recently I saw in one of the residential sections of Berlin a line 
of women of the middle class, corresponding in America to wives of 
professors or small business men, purchasing potato parings for food. 
Foreigners who see only the surface of life here, who come to buy articles 
of luxury or food and clothing because the depreciated mark makes them 
cheaper than in their own countries, do not see what is happening; 
they do not grasp the struggle to cope with the depreciating currency, 
the increase in the cost of Hving and the inadequate wages. 

People whose income has not increased since 1914, and there are many 
such especially among professors, teachers, and widows whose only source 
of income is a pension, are living chiefly on a carbohydrate diet. Food 
which we have grown to consider an essential part of a weU balanced diet 
is beyond their means. To them milk at 3.45 marks a Hter,^ if it could 
be had, is prohibitive. Such prices as 36 marks a pound for butter, 
28 marks a pound for margarine, 12 marks a pound for beef, 10 marks a 
pound for fish, limit the diet to potatoes, oatmeal, flour, soup, and bread, 
with "wurst," herring, or cheese for protein. 

The German government, realizing that further help for under- 
nourished children will be needed for several years, is incorporating 

' At present, January, 1922, a liter of milk in Berlin costs 6.20 marks. 



212 THE JOIIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

the feeding of needy children as part of its social welfare work. The 
Friends are leaving Germany because of the greater need in Russia; 
some American members, however, wiU remain in Germany as long 
as there are funds for the distribution of which the Friends are 
responsible. 

The German people have shown their appreciation of this help in a 
time of need. It had a deeper meaning to them than the gaining of 
weight and height, or relieving tense white faces of strain, or making 
crooked Httle legs more sturdy. Something greater than gratitude has 
found its way into the hearts of the little children. If they are given an 
opportunity to develop the spirit which was expressed by the little 
girl in Upper Silesia who said, "I hope you are feeding the hungry 
Polish children too," Europe may yet iind that good wiU among neighbors 
is possible. 



RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE SCOURING AND BLEACHING 
OF COTTON 

A Review of the Literature for the Years 1920 and 1921 

LILLIAN B. STORMS 
Department oj Chemistry, Iowa State College 

Scouring. The first process in the bleaching of cotton is the boiling out or 
scouring. The fatty and waxy coating of the cotton fiber is water repellent 
and must be removed before either bleaching or dyeing, or "spotty" goods wUl 
be the result, due to uneven absorption. The impurities amount to from four 
to five per cent of the weight of the cotton and are pectin bodies, wax, oil, 
albuminous matter, and mineral substances. Scouring is usually done in at 
least two boils. The first is either a hme boil using milk of hme, or soda ash 
with or without resin soap; intermediate is an acid bath or "sour," and a soda 
boil follows. 

Alkahes do not affect cotton unless of a concentration sufficient to cause a 
mercerizing effect. This will not take place in the boil hquors unless the solu- 
tion becomes concentrated by evaporation or a new solution is added to the 
stock liquor after the material is in the kier and a concentrated solution thus 
comes directly in contact with some of the material. In case hard water is 
used, magnesium and calcium salts are formed which cause a harshness in the 
textile and perhaps some loss in strength. It is claimed that soft water will 



1922] SCOtTRlNG AND BLEACHING OF COTTON 213 

remove 23 per cent more of the fatty matters than will hard water in the same 
process. No harm to the goods can be detected if the ordinary precautions are 
taken, especially the exclusion of air or any oxidizing agent. Air will cause the 
formation of so-called oxy-cellulose, resulting in a weakened condition of the 
fiber and a greater absorptive power for dyes in the spots so affected. To 
reduce the oxidizing effect in the kier various substances have been recom- 
mended such as sodium sulfite, which has been used with good results on 
strength. When air is excluded the pressure and temperature can be run 
higher, thus shortening the time. 

So-called "fat lime" has a small amount of magnesia and silica in it. It 
should be run through a sieve so that no large particles will come in contact 
with the material, as these will burn the cotton. " Chemical lime" which is 
much advocated, is in powder form and, though it is more expensive, there are 
no large lumps to settle on the goods. 

The hme boil takes from eight to ten hours, depending on the pressure and 
temperature used. The liquor must be run off quickly and the washing done 
rapidly and thoroughly or the lime will dry on the goods. The fats and greases 
are decomposed and insoluble lime soaps are formed, which are subsequently 
removed in the acid sours. Some of the new kiers supply an outside circula- 
tion of the liquor. Efficient circulation shortens the time of boiUng and gives 
more even results. 

Warp threads are sized, usually with starch, to prevent roughening-up in the 
weaving into cloth. This starch has to be removed for the same reasons and 
by the same means as the other impurities. A simple and very neat method 
of removing starch and gummy and pectin substances, is the employment of an 
enzyme, a diastase product, to render starch soluble. This method is used 
in laundries and in various industrial processes. From two to four per cent 
malt extract solution and a steep over night at 120°F. render the starch 
soluble; raising the temperature to 180°F. stops the digestive action of the 
enzyme. The determination of the Lintner value has been the test used for 
the power of the extract, but the Lintner value does not give the liquefying 
power of the extract, and this is what the bleacher needs to know. This 
knowledge can best be obtained from trial strips of goods in test solutions. 
Malt extract gives an easily soluble reagent, immediately ready for use, with 
rapid solvent action, and no harmful effect on the fiber or on dyes; and the use 
of it decreases the severity of the alkali boil. 

If colored yarns are present in the material to be boiled out and bleached, 
certain modifications in the processes are necessary. Soda ash is safer and 
fairly effective when used in place of caustic soda. Sometimes a mixture of 
a small amount of caustic soda with a larger amount of soda ash is used satis- 
factorily. Matthews gives a table of the dyes in ordinary use and their fast- 
ness to boiling out and bleaching. It is sometimes necessary to limit or even 



214 THE JOLTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

entirely omit the alkali boil, using soap scouring instead. It is claimed that 
the use of oxidizing agents such as sodium peroxide, potassium dichromate, 
potassium permanganate or perborate have advantages in counteracting the 
reducing action of the warp sizing materials on dyed cottons. These are not in 
use commercially, hence are probably not very successful. There is an ex- 
ception, in that, when some bleaching is required in one operation with the 
boil, peroxide is used. 

To the uninitiated, soap would appear to be the recognized scouring agent, 
but soap is more expensive and is only substituted for the alkali when the regu- 
lar process is modified for some reason. The principal value of soap is for use 
with hard water, where insoluble soaps would be precipitated on the addition 
of alkali. Turkey-red oil and acid soaps are used to form more stable emul- 
sions to prevent precipitation with hard water. Soap is not now used as it 
was formerly, largely on account of cost, but also because it may leave some 
yellow color if heated at too high a temperature. 

The use of volatile solvents for the extraction of fat, wax, and oil has been 
advocated but such extraction does not entirely take the place of the alkali 
scouring. From some standpoints it would be an ideal method; for one reason 
there could be no possible deleterious effect on the fiber. However, the neces- 
sity of some alkali treatment, the cost of special plant and treatment, danger 
of fire with certain solvents, and the fact that the advantages do not seem to 
be commensurate with the extra cost and trouble make it doubtful if this 
method will be generally adopted. Solvent extraction has been successfully 
used where cotton and linen are to be finished with a high linen finish and where 
dyed materials are to be scoured. 

After the lime boil and a cold rinsing the goods are treated with an acid bath 
called the "gray sour," or "lime sour," to remove lime compounds. Hydro- 
chloric acid is preferable since the reaction with lime soaps gives soluble 
chlorides, whereas sulfuric acid yields more insoluble sulfates. This is usually 
done in the cold, though warming will decrease the amount of acid and save 
time. 

A second boil, in case this boil is included, is in soda ash or a mixture of the 
soda with caustic soda. The use of pressure reduces the time of boiling from 
one-half to one-third. Resin soap is not so generally included here as was 
formerly the custom. Resin forms insoluble resinates with calcium and mag- 
nesium of hard water and even when distilled water is used the resin substances 
are hard to remove from the material. If resin soap is used there is a second 
soda ash boil and another washing. 

The caustic soda boil, the liquor of which is usually from two to five per cent 
in strength, is shorter and less complicated than the above. If properly done 
the goods will show an increase in breaking strength, probably largely because 
of shrinkage. Oils are used with caustic because of their solvent action on 



1922] SCOURING AND BLEACHING OF COTTON 215 

the cotton wax and the lime soaps which may have adhered to the fabric. The 
boil-out is quicker and the fiber has a soft feel, whereas the use of caustic alone 
leaves a harsh feel. 

In 1918 Knecht and Hall did some work on the composition of the residual 
liquors from the alkaline boils, determining where the various impurities were 
removed. INluch remains to be done on the composition of these liquors to 
establish possibilities of their further use or recover^'. 

Chemists are not agreed as to the advantages of using a lime boil nor on the 
number of soda boils. Darling and others claim one lime boil with one soda 
ash boil to be sufficient. Julius gives a method for the use of a single boil in 
a mLxture of soda ash and caustic by previous use of enxyme, but does not 
recommend this shorter method when a good bleach is desired. The original 
use of the various boils was largely empirical but chemists have not materially 
altered the old processes. 

Bleachers have considered it more difficult to obtain a uniform composition 
in commercial lime than in soda ash or caustic, and some of the discouragement 
of the use of the lime boil has come from that source. It has been claimed that 
lime sometimes contains sufficient iron to leave stains on the goods. Darling 
investigated lime of different grades, determined the amount of iron present and 
the amount necessary to cause trouble, and made recommendations as to 
specifications in purchasing. He has concluded that the amount of iron 
present is harmless and that iron from poorly lined kiers is much more danger- 
ous than the iron contained in the lime. The lime boil still appears to be the 
best method of removing the waxes and pectin matters. 

In order to save time, or, in the bleaching of colored fabrics as striped goods, 
where scouring may prove more detrimental to the dyes than the bleaching 
proper, the boiling-out may be much modified or practically omitted. Colored 
goods may be treated with diastofor (or other enzyme preparation), washed in 
hot water or in hot dilute soap liquor which may or may nor have soda ash in 
it, and bleached. In case indigo is present in the colored goods the re- 
ducing action of the dressing materials may cause loss of color and the enzyme 
treatment will remove the dressing without harm to the dye. A British patent 
gives for colored goods a method of solvent extraction of the natural wax and 
oil from the fiber and a moderation of the alkali boil, claiming a better bleach 
than without the solvent action. The expense has prevented the wide spread 
use of solvent extraction. 

It is claimed a boil in soda ash and Turkey-red oil followed by bleaching 
will result in much less loss in weight. Higgins found that two such boils with 
a subsequent bleach used five times as much bleaching powder as the ordinary 
process, with the result that impurities still on the fibers gave the greater 
weight, and the linen used in this experiment was still yellow and unsuitable 
for market. He concludes that a thorough scouring is the cheapest way to 
obtain a good white. 



216 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Bleachers sometimes allow the scoured material to cool in the kiers. Many 
impurities removed by the hot lye will be reabsorbed from the solution upon 
cooling. 

Properly scoured cloth does not have a great amount of coloring matter 
left in it; therefore there is little work for the "chemic" as the bleach liquor is 
called. 

Bleaching. Bleaching powder still remains as the chief oxidizing agent 
in bleaching cotton. Hydrogen peroxide is valuable where chlorine will 
cause injury to the fiber as when cotton is mixed with wool or silk. Sodium 
and hydrogen peroxide and sodium perborate have had but limited use in 
cotton bleaching because of their higher cost; especially is that true of the 
perborate. Perborate will mLx with soap and washing powders but because 
of expense has not been extensively used in bleaching or in laundry prepara- 
tions. Considerable advertising is being given to peroxide bleaching. If 
properly controlled a steady liberation of oxygen throughout the entire mater- 
ial can be obtained by changes of temperature or by adding acid or alkali. 
It is claimed that oxygen bleached materials show remarkable softness, elas- 
ticity, brilliancy, strength, and life, and a permanent white. Peroxide manu- 
facturers claim peroxide bleaching shortens the time to one-third that of the 
usual process. 

In bleaching, the goods are left in the bleaching solution until the coloring 
matter is entirely or practically gone, then rinsed, and put into the hydrochloric 
acid solution, where any remaining basic calcium compounds are removed. 
The bleaching effect is due to the hypochlorous acid which gives up oxygen 
directly, and the by-product is hydrochloric acid. Sodium hypochlorite, 
prepared from liquid chlorine and alkali, from bleaching powder and alkali, 
or from electrolysis of salt, is more soluble than bleaching powder and liberates 
more hypochlorous acid. However, it is more expensive. If the calcium 
compound is carefully dissolved there will be no particles to settle on the cloth 
and less waste than is too frequently the case. Heat, alkali, and the sun's 
rays all decrease the stabihty of the bleaching powder, thereby increasing the 
bleaching action. It is claimed that the presence of common salt as in elec- 
trolytic liquor, stimulates the action. This has been shown to be an initial 
effect and the final result to be the same with or without the salt. 

If bleaching is done too rapidly the time is insufficient to allow thorough 
penetration into the fiber and the bleaching is superficial, whereas too slow a 
bleaching action will permit the oxidizing agent to attack the cellulose, pre- 
sumably forming oxycellulose. The present tendency is toward as much re- 
duction of time as possible. One method (Brin Oxygen Company) subjects 
the material to the action of chlorine in the presence of oxygen. Gaseous 
chlorine or hypochlorite of lime may be used. Schreiner's ozonized turpentine 
method is interesting. It has been found that metallic oxides of copper, iron, 
cobalt, manganese, and chromium accelerate the evolution of oxygen from 
bleaching powder solutions. 



1922] SCOIXRING AND BLEACHING OF COTTON 217 

The use of chlorine gas in water is being advocated. A solution of chlorine 
yields HOCl and HCl. The reaction is reversible. The addition of calcium 
carbonate increases the bleaching properties by removing the HCl formed. 
The HOCl yields oxygen and HCl. The presence of small amounts of HCl in 
bleaching liquors increases the bleaching action. An excess of HCl gives an 
excess of free chlorine and a weak bleaching solution, i.e., reverses the above 
equation. The further addition of calcium carbonate removes the HCl and 
again increases the bleaching action. 

As a source of sodium hypochlorite, chlorine gas is run into a cold solution 
of caustic soda or soda ash until saturated. Clilorine gas is a by-product in 
the electrolysis of salt in the manufacture of caustic soda. The gas is dried, 
liquefied, and put into steel cyhnders. Considerable information is being 
published on the uses and methods of handling liquid chlorine and chlorine 
gas. Liquid chlorine and soda ash or waste caustic soda liquors recovered 
from mercerizing can be made up into clear liquors ready for immediate use 
and under constant control of the bleaching strength, whereas chloride of lime 
loses strength on exposure and deposits a heavy sludge when dissolved. In 
such a solution there are no lime salts present as in chloride of lime and there 
is no danger of tendering and discoloring the goods from the adhering of par- 
ticles of Ume. This method of bleaching has recently come into extensive use, 
its nicety and efficiency making a strong appeal though the cost of installa- 
tion is high. 

Electrolytic bleach liquors are prepared by the action of the electric current 
on a solution of common salt, forming a sodium hypochlorite solution. Great 
claims have been made for this bleach but actual bleaching tests carried out 
with sodium hypochlorite solutions made from bleaching powder and soda 
ash, from liquid chlorine and soda ash, and from electrolytic liquor, all show 
practically the same bleaching effect for the same content of available chlorine. 
The process requires greater attention than does the dissolving of bleaching 
powder, and the cost depends on the initial cost of the salt and of the current. 
Higgins makes the statement that no electrolyzer will give a solution strong 
enough for ordinary bleaching. This method has proved successful in small 
scale operations, as laundries, but Matthews considers liquid chlorine more 
satisfactory and less costly. 

The strengths of bleaching liquors have been tested by means of an hydrom- 
eter. The same is true of the control of the concentration of most of the 
baths in use in scouring and bleaching. More modern methods are being 
introduced, for the specific gravity as measured by the hydrometer is but 
ver>' roughly a register of the amount of available clilorine or the strength of 
any of the solutions.' 

' For a complete consideration of the processes included in the operations of scouring 
and bleaching, reference should be made to te.xt books, such as "Bleaching and Related 
Processes" by Matthews. "Bleaching" by Higgins is a review of the researches on scouring 
and bleaching between 1908 and 1920, being largely an account of the author's own work. 



218 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

General 

Bleaching and Related Processes. J. M. Matthews. Chemical Catalog Co., 1921, pp. 700. 

Bleaching. S. H. Higgins. Longmans, Green & Co., 1921, pp. 140. 

Bleaching and Boiling Out of Cotton. Matthews. Series of articles in Color Trade J., 

January through December, 1921. 
Some Chemical Problems in the Bleaching of Cotton. Matthews. Color Trade J., May, 

1920, p. 135. 

Historical Notes on the Bleaching Industry. Higgins. /. Soc. Dyers and Colorists, Decem- 
ber, 1921, p. 314. 

Notes on Cotton Bleaching with the Present and Possible Future Improvements. Sansone. 
Textile Colorisl, 1920, pp. 32, 265, 543, 611, 803, 857. 

Catalysts in Bleaching and Dyeing. Hall. Textile Colorist, January, 1921, p. 33. 

Scouring 

Kier Boiling. Julius. Textile American, 33, 1920, No. 4, p. 28. 

Effect of Iron in the Lime Boil. Darling. Textile World, August 27, 1921, p. 33. 

Scouring Process. U. S. Patent, 1,370,076. Watremez. 1921. 

List of Patents for 1920, Color Trade J., March, 1921, p. 92. 

Scouring and Bleaching of Yarns and Fabrics Composed of \'egetable Fibers Containing 

Dyed Effects. Brit. P., 1920, 165, 198. 
Elimination of Nitrogen from Vegetable Fibers in Bleaching. J. Soc. Dyers and Colorists, 

1919, p. 164. 
New Diastase Preparations and Their Use in Textile Industries. Tagliani. Zeit.f. angew. 

Cliem., 1921, pp. 69-73. 
Malt Extract in Bleaching and Dyeing. Color Trade J., May, 1921, p. 189. 
A Viscosity Method for Testing Diastase Products. Hall. Can. Dyer and Color User, 

1921, p. 156. 

Water in Relation to Dyeing. MacGregor. Color Trade J., August, 1921, p. 43. 
Bleaching of Colored Cotton Fabrics. Textile Colorist, 1920, p. 124. 

Bleaching 

Bleaching of Silk. CagUostro. Color Trade J., July 1921, p. 13; August, 1921, p. 68. 
Handling Liquid Chlorine. Bartlett. Textile World, no. 26, 1921, p. 27; Color Trade J., 

November, 1921, p. 207. 
Bleaching with Liquified Chlorine. Color Trade J., October, 1921, p. 137. 
Properties of Liquid Chlorine. Color Trade J., 1921, p. 233. 
Bleaching of Printed Fabrics. Weiss. Chem. Abstracts, 15, p. 2192. 
Process of Bleaching. Ornsteia. U. S. Patent. Co/or Trade /., June, 1920, p. 181. 
Recent Improvements in Finish of Linen and Cotton Goods. M. Fort. Color Trade J., 

October, 1921, p. 142; J. Soc. Dyers and Colorists, 1921, p. 161. 
Bleaching with Hyposulfite in the Wet Wash. Albert. Chem. Abstr., 15, p. 1078. 
Process of Bleaching. King. Canada Patent. Chem. Abstr. ,1A, p. 2090. 
.Augmenting the Energy of Hypochlorites. Color Trade J., 1920, p. 142. 
Bleaching of Cotton Fabrics Containing Colored Yams. Chem. Abstr., 14, p. 1443. 
Bleaching .\gents. Brit. Patent. Color Trade J., May, 1921, p. 196. 



1922] SCOURING .AJN'D BLEACHIXG OF COTTON 219 

Bleaching of Textile Fibrous ^laterials by Means of Oxygen Compounds. Hadley. Am. 

Dyesttiff Rep., September, 1920, p. 29. 
Bleaching and Disinfecting Agents. Brit. Patent. /. Soc. Dyers and Colorisls, March, 

1921, p. 86. 
Use of Permanganate in Bleaching. Color Trade J., May, 1920, p. 15S. 
Bleaching of Cotton Warps. Xajar. Am. Dyestu^ Rep., 1921, No. 6, p. 18. 
Bleaching of Colored Cotton Goods. Matthews. Color Trade J., May, 1921, p. 157. 
Bleaching of Jute. Duhem. Color Trade J., October, 1921, p. 134. 

Bleaching and Finishing of Lace Curtains. Albert. Color Trade J., August, 1921, p. 63. 
.\pparatus used in Bleaching or Washing Fabrics. Brit. Patent, 1920. /. Soc. Dyers and 

Colorisls, October, 1921, p. 251. 
Bleaching Process. U. S. Patent, 1,381,440. Taylor. 1921. 
Bleaching of Fabrics. Brit. Patent. /. Soc. Dyers and Colorisls, 1921, p. 218. 
The Peroxide Booth of Roessler & Hasslacher at Phil. Hosierj' Exhibit. Color Trade J., 

May, 1921, p. 177. 
Bleaching of Cotton Knit Underwear with Peroxide. Moore. Am. Dyeshif Rep., 1920, 

Xo. 19, p. 16. 
.Accelerating Bleaching Action. Watremez. Brit. Patent., 1920. Color Trade J., Febru- 
ary, 1921, p. 50; U. S. Patent, 1,370,076, 1921. Color Trade J., May, 1921, p. 194. 
Bleaching. Julius. Textile Amer., 35, (1921), No. 1, p. 11. 
Method and Means for Bleaching. Taylor. Brit. Patent, 1921. J. Soc. Dyers and Colorisls, 

December, 1921, p. 315. 
Cotton Bleaching. DePuyster. Color Trade J., October, 1921, p. 132. 
Effect of Processes on Tensile Strength. Greenwood. Textile World, January 29, 1921, 

p. 31. 
Effect of Prolonged Bleaching on Durability of Cotton. Heermann & Frederking. /. Soc. 

Dyers and Colorisls, 1921, p. 255. 

Control and Analytical 

Determination of -Available Chlorine in Bleaching Liquor. Schero. /. Ind. and Eng. 

Chem., 1921, p. 559. 
Testing Bleaching Strength. Klemm. Chem. Ztg., 1920, p. 458. 
Control of Bleach House Processes. Eastman. Am. Dyestuff Rep., 1921, No. 10, p. 39. 
Control of Chemic. Adams. Textile Colorisl, 1921, p. 259. 
Influence of the Various Operations of Chlorination on Copper Index of Cottons. Braidy. 

Ckem. Abstr., 15, p. 2360. 
"Pinking" of Bleached Cotton Goods. Nanson. Cotton, 1920, p. 19. 
Valuation of Sodium Hj^posulfite. Crowther & Haywood. /. Soc. Dyers and Colorisls, 

1921, p. 279. 
Control of Chlorine in Bleaching of Cotton Goods. Schroeder. Met. Chem. Eng., 1921, 

vol. 24, p. 925. 



220 THE JOTIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

A COURSE IN MARKETING 

N. BETH BAILEY 
Associate Professor, Home Economics Division, Iowa Slate College, Ames 

Recent developments in the food situation have led to a more intensive 
study of the production and distribution of food products. By means of 
the revised course in Marketing, the Home Economics division at Iowa 
State College is aiming to make the future housewives of Iowa realize 
their responsibility as buyers of food stuffs, by giving them a practical 
knowledge of market conditions. The term "marketing" presents two 
ideas. The older one is that of the housewife going to the market with 
her basket to secure the family rations. "Marketing" as now used in 
commerce and trade, carries the larger idea of getting the products from 
producer to consumer. It is beheved that the problems of consumer 
and producer can be solved only by a clearer understanding of these two 
ideas included in the broad term "marketing." 

The course in marketing consists of a one hour lecture period and two 
three hour laboratory periods each week for one quarter. In the labora- 
tory, a study is made of specific foods. In order that the information 
may be in condensed form, special charts for each type of food are filled 
out in class. For example, two lessons are spent on vegetables, using the 
following chart: 









Vegetables 










NAME 


PAST rSED 


SEASON 


POINTS IN 
CHOICE 


PEICE 


AMOUNT 
TO BUY 
FOR SIX 


STORAGE 


VALUE 


USE 





























































































Illustrative material consists of fresh vegetables where possible. The 
work with potatoes illustrates the type of problem. Potatoes grown and 
found in Iowa markets are shown^ and cut to test for black heart rot, 
black ring, freezing, scab, and other defects. They are boiled, baked, 
and mashed to note characteristic cooking properties. The selection of 
winter storage potatoes is discussed, as well as the best methods of 

'Iowa State College bulletin no. 33, "Identification of Potato Varieties" is used to show 
characteristics and market season of each. 



1922] 



A COURSE m MARKETING 



221 



storage. The class finds the nvimber of pounds of potatoes per bushel, 
the number of potatoes per pound, the niunber of servings of mashed and 
of creamed potatoes per pound, and the percentage of waste in peeling 
different sizes and shapes. 

In the work with fresh fruit, a similar chart is used. With dried 
frmts, package and bulk goods are discussed as to sanitation, appearance, 
and cost. All sizes of apricots and prunes are cooked to notice size, 
flavor, condition, and waste. 

Two lessons are given to the study of tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, and 
spices. Brands are tested for adulteration, flavor, cost per serving, and 
appearance. 

In the work with starch and cereal products, the students are taught 
the importance of reading labels and estimating the true cost per pound 
of all package goods. Prepared cake and pancake flours are tested for 
texture, flavor, and cost. 

One lesson deals with fats and oils on our markets. E.xperimental 
cookery results are used, noting comparative cost and varying results 
from different fats and oils used for flavoring, shortening, and deep fat 
fr>'ing. 

Eggs are studied as to grades, selection, and storage. Dried egg and 
the so-called "egg substitutes" are tested in cakes, mayonnaise, and 
custards. 

The lessons on fish and meat, given with the cooperation of the 
Animal Husbandry Department, emphasize proper selection and care 
in the home. 

State and Federal Pure Food Laws are examined with reference to the 
cormnercially canned fruits, vegetables, meat, and fish. The students 
are taught grades and brands of goods. Different sized cans are opened 
in class and the following information tabulated : 











Canned Goods 












KAME 


BRAND 


O^. 


PRICE 


CAS 


WEIGHT 


SOLIDS 


MEASURE 


COLOR 


FLAVOR 






Liquids 


Solids 





























































































































222 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Reports of inspection of the local supply of fresh and canned milk 
are considered in the study of dairy products. The products studied are 
condensed, evaporated, and dried milk, and brands of cheese, their 
market appearance, flavor, cost, and storage. 

With each type of food, a study is made of the prepared products on 
the market to compare their flavor and cost with homemade products. 
Some of the foods tested are salad dressing, pickles, meat loaf, pancake 
syrups, pie fillings, quick puddings. 

The lecture work presents to the class the problems involved in getting 
food from the producer to the consumer, the spread of difference in 
prices, functions of the various middle men, and the possibility of misuse 
of their power, and the factors at work to organize and regulate these 
processes. Special emphasis is given to the work of the Bureau of 
Markets in the standardization of products, weights, measures, and 
containers, and attention is given to all federal and state laws relative to 
the sale of food stuffs, including packing, shipping, and storing. 

At the beginning of the term, each student chooses a project for prac- 
tical research and investigation. Frequent conferences with the in- 
structors and consultations with speciaUsts in the college and in the 
trades vitaHze the projects. Examples of subjects are: 

1. Compare the Pure Food and the Sanitary Laws of Iowa with those of five other states. 

2. WTiat are the causes and results of the investigation of the meat packers? 

3. Study the local grocery stores as to sanitation, quality of goods, prices, and other 
conditions. 

4. Chart egg prices in New York, Des Moines, and Ames for one month. Why the 
changes and differences? What determines price? 

5. Chart prices paid for ten staple products in Des Moines, Ames, and a village retail 
store. Explain variations in price. 

6. Study advertisements of foodstuffs. Give advantages and disadvantages of buying 
these foods. Illustrate. 

A field trip to Des Moines includes the public market, a wholesale 
house, a meat packing house, a large retaQ store and a fish market. 
Several lectures are given by men in the produce business. 



1922] SPECL\L METHODS COURSE 223 

SPECIAL METHODS COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 

EFFIE I. RAITT 

University of Washington, Seattle 

I. Brief survey of the household in successive periods of the world's 

history. 

1. Points considered: a, type of family; b, women's social position; 

c, education of children; d, household a productive unit; 
e, religious bond — economic bond. 

2. Periods: a, primitive times; b, Hebrew; c, Greek; d, Roman; 

e, Middle Ages; f, Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries; 
g, Colonial times in United States. 

II. Present status of the American home and its needs. 

1. Sources of help. 

2. Analysis of the job of homemaking: a, organization of the family — 

division of labor, division of responsibility, cooperation (sym- 
pathy, unity of purpose); b, social responsibility; c, civic 
responsibility; d, recreational life of the family — hospitality; 
p, religious training; f, education in the home — habit formation; 
g, care of dependents — children, the sick, the aged; h, selection 
and care of the house, its furnishings and equipment; i, house- 
hold accounts and budgets; j, feeding the family; k, clothing 
the family. 
III. The meaning of education for the student as: 

1. An individual. 

2. A member of society. 

3. A bread winner. 

IV. Home economics education. 

1. Its contributions in the general scheme of education. 

2. Factors influencing development: a, philanthropic activities (1) 

cooking and sewing schools — New York, Boston, and Phila- 
delphia, (2) the kitchen garden movement; b, spread of higher 
education for women; c, development of science; d, the manual 
trainmg movement; e, vocational educational aims. 

3. Educational agencies: a, grade schools; b, junior high schools; 

c, general high schools; d, vocational and technical high schools; 
e, private schools; f, continuation and part-time classes; g, trade 
schools; h, evening schools; i. Young Women's Christian Asso- 
ciation classes; j, churcli and settlement classes; k, extension 
work of various types; 1, women's clubs; m, Camp Fire Girls; 
n, Girl Scouts; o. Junior Red Cross, p, other agencies. 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

4. Status and function of each group in general. 

5. Home economics in the 7th and 8th grades and in high school: 

a. Basis for the work: (1) needs of the girl, the family, the 

community; (2) modification made necessary by the char- 
acter of the community, groups to be reached, time 
allowed, correlation with other subjects, equipment, cost. 

b. Organization of courses: (1) factors to be studied (a) State 

course of study — its value and need for modification; 
(b) Smith-Hughes regulations and state provisions; (c) 
selection of subject matter as determined by needs. 

c. Common methods of presenting lessons and value of each: 

dictation, discussion, demonstration, experiments, text 
books and manuals, illustrative materials, excursions. 

d. The project method: 

(1) Comparison of value of purposeful activity on the part 

of the pupil with task imposed by the teacher. 

(2) Types of projects: (a) school room projects (objective 

or work should be clear to pupils) ; (b) observation and 
report projects; (c) home projects: essentials — 
purposeful activity on the part of the pupil must 
involve managerial skill, must afford opportunity for 
gaining new knowledge, must give opportunity for 
developing manipulative ability, must be conducted 
under approximately normal conditions, must parallel 
class room instruction, must ha\e a plan and records, 
must be supervised. 

e. Analysis of subject matter for teaching points. (Cover 

entire range of homemaking activities as far as limitation 
of classroom permits. II, 2. Refer to analysis of the 
job of homemaking.) 

f. Laboratory management: (1) housekeepers duties; (2) creat- 

ing home atmosphere; (3) hostess duties — flowers and 
greens, receiving visitors; (4) care of equipment — towels, 
machines; (5) care of supplies — cupboards, closets, etc.; 
(6) disposal of products from food classes — pupils own 
lunch, luncheon for groups of teachers, sales and special 
orders, take home, school lunch room. 

g. The lesson plan: use, form, practice in writing lesson plans, 
h. Demonstration lessons by members of the class, using class 

as pupils: (1) presenting lesson; (2) judging lesson — objec- 
tive, teaching points, methods of presentation, time divi- 
sion, laboratory management, summary. 



1922] SPECIAL METHODS COURSE 225 

i. Establishing standards in home economics: (1) score cards; 
(2) note books; (3) examinations; (4) tests and measure- 
ments — speed, skill, ability to make application, initiative 
used, ability to organize, ability to judge relative values. 

6. Part time and continuation classes: a, purpose; b, type of pupils 

and their needs; c, selection of subject matter; d, methods of 
presenting; e, Smith-Hughes regulations and state provisions; 
f , practice in organizing courses. 

7. Evening schools: a, purpose; b, kind of work desired; c, needs of 

pupils and means of ascertaining; d, selection of subject matter; 
e, methods of presenting; f, Smith-Hughes regulations and state 
provisions; g, practice in preparing unit courses; h, cost; i, 
equipment. 

8. Extension work: a, history; b, present status; c, needs and meth- 

ods; d, Smith-Lever Act. 
V. Related subjects education. 

1. Types. 

a. Related science courses: (1) general biology including botany, 

zoology, bacteriology and sanitation, physiology, hygiene; 
(2) household physics; (3) household chemistry. 

b. Related art courses: (1) principles of design; (2) applied 

design. 

2. Practice in planning courses. 

3. Consideration of place in the curriculum. 
VI. Plant and equipment for homemaking classes. 

1. Types. 

a. Laboratory: (1) food; (2) clothing; (3) bedroom and bath- 

room; (4) dining room; (5) laundry. 

b. Accessories and substitutes: (1) teachers" room; (2) special 

rooms in school such as faculty room, office, girls' rest 
room; (3) teacherages; private homes for special lessons. 

c. Character of laboratories as to: (1) location; (2) lighting and 

ventilation; (3) finish and color; (4) storage facilities; 
(5) equipment — amount, arrangement, kind, cost. 
VII. Bibliography. 

1. Text books — manuals, books for reference. Review and record 

in card catalogue, giving author, title, type, purpose, cost, 
publisher, special features, criticism. 

2. Federal, state, and private bulletins, pamphlets, leaflets. List 

and note value and special features. 

3. Magazines and journals. Estimated value, cost, publisher. 



226 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

VIII. Illustrative material and supplies. 

1. Source. 

2. Cost. 

3. Care. 
IX. The teacher. 

1. Administrative duties: a, accounts; b, records and reports; c, 

inventories. 

2. Community life: a, teacher's place; b, methods of securing interest 

in home economics work; c, activities related to home economics 
— Women's Club, Parent Teacher Association, Child Welfare 
Organization, work of public health nurse. 

3. Professional life: a, relation to other teachers; b, loyalty to 

school officials; c, attendance of national, state, and local 
educational meetings; d, means of advancement. 

4. Personal life: a, recreation; b, health; c, living conditions; d, 

personal accounts and budgets; e, appropriate dress. 



BASAL METABOLISM AND FOOD CONSUMPTION OF 
UNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 

KATHARINE BLUNT AND VIRGINIA BAUER 

{Continued from A pril) 

FOOD CONSUMPTION 

The other feature of the study of underweight young women consisted of 
observations on their food consumption. The diet of each girl was observed 
for two typical days often consecutively and usually within the week of the 
first metabolism observation. 

Method of Study. The method generally employed was for the younger of 
the writers to be present at each meal and to weigh or measure all food served 
and what remained uneaten. Most of the girls ate either at the University 
Commons or in one of the Women's Halls. A careful description of all food 
eaten was kept as the meals were weighed, the thickness of sauces, richness of 
desserts and gravies, sweetness, amount of egg, and other points being noted. 
The supervisor of the Commons and of the Halls furnished information in 
regard to the proportions of a number of dishes served at these places. 

The girls kept a record of all food eaten between meals. The size of these 
portions had to be approximated, but, as, contrary to expectations, the actual 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF UNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 227 

between meal eating was very small, no important error was introduced. As 
it was impossible for the writer to be present at the meals of five of the subjects 
who ate breakfast and dinner at home, the use of the scales and measuring cup 
was carefully explained, and the girls themselves kept the record, describing 
the food eaten. If this description was not clear thej' were asked about it 
more in detail when the list was completed. In the latter part of the work two 
girls who ate at the University Commons were simply told to keep a record of 
the food they chose and what was not eaten. The portions had been repeatedly 
weighed and the girls usually ate all that was served so that their estimation 
of the bit which was occasionally left was not important in affecting the final 
results. In the calculations, Rose "Laboratory Manual of Dietetics" and 
"Feeding the Family" and some data prepared in this laboratory by the die- 
taries class were used. 

The attempt was made not to influence the young women in any way on the 
days their diets were observed. The fact that most of them were not home 
economics students and knew ver>' little about food selection made it all the 
more probable that self-consciousness did not affect their usual habits and that 
they were eating about as they usually did. 

This method of making a dietary study is obviously not the most accurate 
and two days' diet is a smaller number than is desirable; but it is believed that 
sufiicient care has been taken in the weighing and in the computations, and in 
the effort to secure meals in accordance with the subjects' usual habits to 
make the results of value. 

ResicJts. The results of the dietary studies are given in Table 5. It may 
be seen that ten of the girls were eating less than 1800 calories per day, six- 
teen less than 2000, and only two over 2200. One extreme case (omitted 
from the average) consumed only 970 calories per day. This subject, a very 
inactive, rather nervous young woman, declared that the two days studied 
were entirely fair samples of her dietary habits, and friends in the dormitory 
supported her in this statement. While it is of course unlikely that her state- 
ment can be strictly true, since her basal metabolism was higher than the 
calories of her food, yet it is probable that she often indulged in this limited 
food intake. The calories per kilo for this student were 19.1 and for the other 
18 ranged from 31.1 to 52.1, the average for the 18 being 38.2. 

The relation between the per cent underweight and the food intake is not 
entirely consistent. It is interesting, however, that nos. 1, 5, 7, and 10 who 
were badly underweight had a very low average intake. 

Adequacy of Diets. There must be some standard with which to compare 
these diets if we are to test their adequacy. There seems to be a diversity of 
opinion as to the calories actually required by a young woman of rather sed- 
entary habits. 

We might employ the well-known standard of a 70-kilo man of sedentary 
occupation requiring 2500 calories. Calculating on that basis, using the aver- 



228 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May- 



age weight of this group, 48. 4 kilos, their energy requirement would be 1710 
calories, or 35.3 calories per kilo. 

If instead of their actual weight as it is we take the average that they should 
have, or 58.6 kilos, calculation from this standard gives 2093 calories, or 43.2 
calories for each of the 48.4 kilos which they actually have. It is probable that 
the method of arriving at this higher figure is justifiable, since the extra weight 
of the normal individual is in large part due to non-metabolizing fat deposits 
lacking in these underweights. 

The Inter-Allied Scientific Food Commission (11) fixed the energy require- 
ment of a sedentary munitions worker somewhat higher — at 2200 calories, 
or 39.3 calories per kilo. 

TABLE 5 
Daily food consumption 



KUMBER 


UNDER 
WEIGHT 


WEIGHT 


DAYS 


TOTAL 
CALO- 
RIES 


CALO- 
RIES PER 
KILO- 
GRAM 


PROTEIN 


MEALS EATEN AT 


EXCESS OF 

POOD OVER 

BASAL 




percent 


kg. 

\ 




1575 




em. 
54 


U. Commons 


calories 


1 


26 


48.1 


II 


1770 




50 










1 


Av. 


1673 


34.8 


52 




303 






r 




1940 




44 


Home 




2 


24 


46.0 


II 


1825 




66 


U. Commons Lunch 








i 


Av. 


1883 


40.7 


55 




708 










1940 




73 


Home 




3 


23 


49.6 


II 


1825 




74 












Av. 


1883 


39.7 


74 




573 






[ 




2000 




85 


U. Dormitory 




4 


22 


47.3 


II 


1655 




50 










I 


Av. 


1827 


38.6 


67 




427 










1830 




62 


U. Commons 




5 


21 


52.0' 


II 


1745 




65 












Av. 


1787 


34.3 


64 




417 






f 




1860 




56 


U. Commons 




6 


21 


49.1 


II 

Av. 


2110 
1990 

1505 


40.5 


46 
51 

49 


U. Commons 




7 


20 


47.3 


II 


1865 




82 










I 


Av. 


1685 


33.5 


62 




455 


8 


19 


46.8 


1 
No food con 


sumptic 


n data 







1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF UNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 
TABLE S— Continued 



229 



iroUBEE 


UNDER 
WEIGHT 


WEIGHT 


DAYS 


TOTAL 
CALO- 


CALO- 
GRAM 


PROTEIN 


MEALS EATEN AT 


EXCESS OT 

FOOD OVER 

BASAL 




per cent 


[ 


I 


1985 




sm. 

71 


Tea room 


calories 


9 


19 


44. 7j 


II 

Av. 
I 


1940 
1963 

1675 


43.5 


70 

71 

33 


U. Commons 




10 


19 


49.7' 


II 


1645 




51 












Av. 


1660 


33.4 


42 




410 






( 


I 


2100 




70 


Home 




11 


IS 


47.3 


II 


1482 




51 










i 


Av. 


1791 


37.9 


61 




381 








I 


1630 




61 


U. Commons 




12 


15 


50.0 


II 

I 


2090 
1860 

2055 


37.2 


70 
65 

41 


U. Commons 




13 


15 


45.9 


II 


1560 




50 










i 


Av. 


1757 


38.4 


45 




582 






1 


I 


1440 




33 


U. Dormitory 




14 


15 


45.0 


II 


1355 




34 










i 


Av. 


1397 


31.2 


34 




137 






( 


I 


2120 




69 


Home 




15 


14 


52.0 


II 


2340 




64 










i 


Av. 


2280 


43.9 


67 




900 






f 


I 


1510 




45 


U. Dormitory 




16 


13 


47.2 


II 


1610 




57 










i 


Av. 


1560 


31.5 


51 




210 






f 


I 


1606 




25 


U. Dormitory 




17 


12 


57.2 


II 


1859 




64 










i 


Av. 


1782 


31.1 


45 




583 






[ 


I 


960 




15 


U. Dormitory 




18 


12 


50.8 


II 


985 




30 










[ 


Av. 


973 


19.1 


23 




427 








I 


2295 




45 


U. Dormitory 




19 


11 


51. r 


II 


2400 




69 












Av. 


2343 


45.3 


57 




1183 


Average of all but no 


18 


1830 


37.3 


56.6 




519 



230 THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

In deciding which of these standards should be applied to the subjects of 
our study it is necessary to consider their activity. To obtain the necessary 
information they were all asked to report on the usual time spent in sleeping, 
sitting, and walking, the latter including actual walking, standing, dressing, 
etc. Their averages were 8.6 hours for sleeping, 7.6 hours for sitting, and 
7.8 hours for walking, with very slight individual differences in the time 
for sleep and a somewhat wider range in the distribution of their walking 
time. They were all fairly inactive girls. None of them participated in any 
formal exercise other than the two hours a week prescribed by the Physical 
Education Department. The fact that they averaged nearly nine hours sleep 
is surprising and is possibly the result of the persistent advice of the Physical 
Education Department. It is probable also that they tired more quickly than 
the better nourished person and that their fatigue induced them to go to bed 
earlier. In fact a number of the subjects said that they became tired very 
easily. 

To calculate food demand from these reports in an effort to find the energy 
requirement above the basal metaboHsm is interesting but of course not very 
conclusive, and for our subjects there are two special difficulties: the vagueness 
as to the kind of activity meant by "walking etc." with its inclusion of indoor 
and outdoor walking and standing and laboratory work of various kinds; and 
the extreme restlessness of most of the subjects. It was difficult for them to 
relax; they moved some part of their bodies almost continually, usually entirely 
unconsciously, and certainly expended more energy than the person who sits 
quietly. This excess is usually not taken into account in estimating food 
requirements and we have no studies upon which to base the extra amount 
required. 

An effort at calculation may, however, be made by employing the usual 
10 per cent increase above the basal, for the specific dynamic action of the food, 
and some of the figures obtained by Benedict and Johnson (12) in their ob- 
servations on successive groups of Simmons College students in the large 
respiration chamber of the Nutrition Laboratory. They found a 10 per cent 
increase above the basal for their young women when sitting quietly reading, 
and a further increase of 13 per cent when hemming. This 23 per cent is 
probably fair to use for our women while sitting. Further, they found 67 
calories per hour increase for very slow walking. Our women weigh less than 
theirs (48.4 kilos instead of 54 kilos) so the walking figure may be taken for 
us as 60 calories per hour. We then have: 

1300 calories, basal metabolism 
130 calories, 10 per cent increase for food 
95 calories, sitting 7.6 hours 
468 calories, walking 7.8 hours 

1993 calories, total 



1922] BASAL METABOLISM OF UNDERWEIGHT COLLEGE WOMEN 231 

This gives us approximately 2000 calories, or about 40 calories per kilo for their 
daily requirement from this rough calculation and with only the minimum 
allowance for waste in digestion — almost surely a very conser\-ative estimate. 

Actual dietary studies of similar groups are also to the point as a basis of 
comparison. The Vassar College study made by Macleod and Griggs (13), 
one of the most recent of these, showed that the actual average food intake of 
the students, at meals, was 2698 calories per day. This does not include the 
between meal eating which proved to be quite large. Earlier studies made at 
women's dormitories at the University of Chicago, Lake Erie College, North 
Dakota Agricultural College, and Wesleyan University showed the average 
girl eating 3277, 2592, 2589, and 2544 calories, respectively. These high 
figures further support the opinion that the average of 2000 calories or 39 or 
40 calories per kilo is none too high a standard for our subjects. 

Instead of this, 11 of them (exclusive of the erratic no. 18 with extremely 
low calories) were eating less than 39.5 calories per kilo, eating in fact, amounts 
varying from 38.6 calories down to 31.1 calories. It is extremely probable 
that these 1 1 were not getting enough to maintain their weight, and surely not 
enough to make much of a gain. It is known that a number of them were 
actually losing at the time of this experiment. Nine of these 11 whose basal 
metabolism was observed were eating less than 500 calories above their basal — 
a difference too small to meet adequately the demand of their activities and 
the specific dynamic action of their food. Two whose current loss in weight 
was especially marked consumed only 137 and 210 calories extra. Of the 
seven who were eating more than 39.5 calories per kilo all also showed more 
thanSOO calories excess over their basal. One, no 3, was known to be gaining. 
Knowledge of the others is lacking. 

Other Comments on Diet Study. The quality of the diets was not so good as 
one might wish. If we accept Sherman's estimate of the protein requirement 
as roughly one gram per kilo per day, we find that four were below that limit 
even on the basis of their own low weight, and nine were below 55 grams per 
day, probably barely meeting their protein needs. 

Only one of the entire group ate fruit more than once a day and four less 
than once a day. Also only four were eating vegetables other than potatoes 
more than once a day, the majority averaging only one such vegetable. This 
is very low when one considers the rather small portions often served in a 
cafeteria or dormitory. The same criticism can be made of their use of milk. 
Only four of the subjects were drinking as much as one pint per day, the usual 
amount being one half pint per day. On the whole, then, their food consump- 
tion consisted too largely of cereals and sugar and did not contain sufficient 
milk, fruit, and vegetables. 

Three were inclined to eat very small breakfasts but no one went without 
breakfast. The between meal eating was not large. Several ate apples, 
oranges, or bananas the days they were observed, three had cake, four had small 



232 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

amounts of candy. Only one had ice cream. No. 4 was the only subject 
whose between meal eating was really a large factor. 

It was very interesting to note the girls' own ideas about their food habits. 
When first approached practically all of them declared they were very certain 
that they were eating enough. After the study had been made and they were 
told that to gain they must eat more, most of them said they had no appetite 
for more ; they simply could not eat any more. The suggestion was made that 
probably their appetite was largely a matter of habit and by practice they could 
increase their food consumption. 

Another idea practically all of them had was that they were thin because one 
of their parents or other relatives was. It "ran in the family" and there was 
nothing that could be done about it. The girls were told that the fact still 
remained that they were not eating enough to enable them to increase their 
weight, and that they would probably feel much better if they ate more. 
This possible improvement is illustrated by subject no. 3, who has been ob- 
served for nearly five months. At the beginning she weighed only 105 pounds 
and was 25 per cent underweight. She became alarmed at her condition and 
began to try to eat more, but did not change any of her other habits. In four 
months she had gained 12 pounds. She says it is most surprising how much 
more she can eat now and how much better and more ambitious she feels. 



A group of 19 college women who were underweight by comparison with life 
insurance standards, and who were of a nervous tj^pe, were studied to deter- 
mine their basal metabolism and their food consumption. Their basal metab- 
oUsm like that of some underweight women observed in the Boston Nutrition 
Laboratory, averaged almost normal. Their food consumption, however, was 
low, averaging only 1830 calories or 37.3 calories per kilo. Eleven of them 
ate less than 500 calories above their basal metabolism, one, on the two days 
observed, even less than her basal, and two whose current loss in weight was 
especially marked, only 137 and 210 calories above. 

From these facts and a discussion of their probable requirement it is con- 
cluded that many of the groups were hardly eating enough for their daily needs 
and certainly not enough for any marked gain in weight. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

11. Starling: Significance of Fats in the Diet, Brit. Med. J., 1918, 2: 105. 

12. Benedict and Johnson: Energy Loss of Young Women During the Muscular Activity 

of Light Household Work, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1919, 58: 89. 

13. Macleod and Griggs: A Dietary Study at Vassar College, /. Borne Econ., 1918, 10: 97. 

(Concluded) 



1922] CURRENT HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH 233 

CURRENT HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH IN AMERICAN 

COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES AND IN 

GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS 

From the Research Committee of the American Home Economics 
Association 

{Continued from April) 

Note. — It may very likely be objected, that a certain number of these 
theses are not explicitly stated and may have been only very vaguely con- 
ceived. In some cases, those who are at present in charge of college depart- 
ments may not have been responsible for all the theses announced as coming 
from the departments. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO, 1919-1921 

Nutrition, Food Chemistry, and Experimental Cooking 

The Carbohydrates of Navy Beans. Marietta Eichelberger. Master's thesis, 1919. 

The Acidity of Cooked Vegetables and their Volatile Acid and Sulfur. Mary Hahn. Mas; 

ter's thesis, 1919. 
The Digestibility of Bacon. Katharine Blunt and Marguerite G. Mallon. Jouf. BioL 

Chem., 38, 43, 1919. Part of Master's thesis of M. G. Mallon. 
What is Malnutrition? Lydia Roberts. U. S. Children's Bureau, Publication No. 59, 1919. 
Changes in Fats Absorbed by Fried Foods. Sybil Woodruff and Katharine Blunt. Jonr. 

Home Econ., 11, 440, 1919. Part of Master's thesis of S. Woodruff. 
A Malnutrition Clinic as a University Problem in Applied Dietaries. Lydia Roberts. 

Joiir. Borne Econ., 11, 95, 1919. Part of Master's thesis. 
Review of Literature on Chemistry of Yeast Breads with Experimental Work on Fermenta- 
tion Temperatures. Lotta Day. Master's thesis, 1920. 
The Effect of Cooking on the Water-Soluble Vitamine in Carrots and Navy Beans. Eliza- 
beth W. Miller. Jour. Biol. Chem., 44, 159, 1920. Part of Doctor's thesis in Household 

Administration. 
The Composition of Peanut Meal and Its Use as a Diabetic Food. Margaret Mumford. 

Master's thesis, 1920. 
Comparative Effect of Caffein and Coffee on Respiratory Metabolism. Minnie Phillips. 

Master's thesis, 1920. 
Comparison of Methods for Determination of Fat in Breadstuffs. Pearl E. Ruby. Master's 

thesis, 1920. 
Creatinin and Creatin in the Blood. Chi Che Wang and Mamie Dentler. Jour. Biol. Chem., 

45, 237, 1920. Part of Master's thesis of M. Dentler. 
Water-Soluble B. in Cabbage and Onion. Bertha K. Whipple. Jour. Biol. Chem., 44, 

175, 1920. IMaster's thesis, 1920. 
A Study of Underweight College Women: Their Basal Metabolism, Food Consumption 

and Hemoglobin. Virginia Bauer. Master's thesis, 1921. 
Basal MetaboUsm of Normal Women. Katharine Blimt and Marie Dye. Jour. Biol. 

Chem., 47, 69, 1921. Part of Doctor's thesis of M. Dye. 
Basal MetaboUsm of Underweight Children. Katharine Blunt, Alta Nelson, and Harriet 

Curry Oleson. Jour. Biol. Chem., 49, 247, 1921. 
A Study of the Blood Count and Hemoglobin of High School Girls in Relation to their Diet. 

Falba Foote. Master's thesis, 1921. 



234 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Relation between Composition and Jelly-Making Properties of Apple Juice. Evelyn G. 

Halliday. 
Culinary Uses of Frozen Fruits. Evelyn G. Halliday and Margaret Smith. 
Changes in the Distribution of Nitrogen in Egg White in Cooking. Ruth Kern. Master's 

thesis, 1921. 
Changes in Fat Constants Due to Cooking Processes. Ruth Lilley. Master's thesis, 1921. 
The Effect of Certain Stimulating Substances on the Invertase .Activity of Yeast. Ehzabeth 

W. MiUer. Jour. Biol. Ctiem., 48, 329, 1921. Part of Doctor's thesis in Household 

Administration. 
The Effect of Theobromine on Respiratory Metabolism. Margaret O'Loughlin. Master's 

thesis, 1921. 
Report on Child Health School held at the University of Chicago. Lydia J. Roberts. 
A Study of the Diets of Pre-School Children of Gary, Indiana. A section of a bulletin in 

preparation by the U. S. Children's Bureau. Lydia J. Roberts. 
The Relation between Viscosity and Imbibition of Gluten and the Volume and Texture of 

Flour Mixtures as Affected by Baking Powder. Mildred Tackaberry. Master's 

thesis, 1921. 

Insliliition Economics 

Occupations other than Teaching Open to the Food-trained Women. Effie M. Carp. 
Master's thesis, 1921. 

Home Economics Education and Clothing 

Analysis of Home Economics Textbooks. Leona F. Bowman. Master's thesis, 1919. 

(Incorporated in the Monograph, Home Economics in American Schools.) 
Home Economics in American Schools. Supplementary Educational Monographs, Vol. II, 

No. 6, University of Chicago, 1921. Mabel B. TriUing, Leona F. Bowman, and others. 
Standardized Tests in Textiles and Clothing. Mabel B. Trilling and Florence Williams. 

Jour. Home Econ., 12, 486, 1920. 
Factors of Cost in Women's Clothing. Lillian Baker. Master's thesis, 1921. 
Organization of Food and Clothing Courses in High Schools of the United States. Leona 

F. Bowman. 
Textiles: Its Importance as a Separate Subject in a High School Sewing Course. Leona 

F. Bowman. 
Home Economics Tests: Neck Finishes for Undergarments. Adah Hess. 
Objectives in Textile Education. Mabel B. Trilling. 
Informal Tests in Teaching Textiles and Clothing. Mabel B. Trilling and Adah Hess. 

Jour. Home Econ., 13, 483, October, 1921. 
Standards of Attainment in Machine Sewing. Florence Williams. 

IOWA STATE COLLEGE, AMES 

Textile Buying and Shopping Habits and Factors that will Tend to Improve them. Callie 
May Bliss. Master's thesis, 1921. 

13 graduate students are at work in the Home Economics Division this year (1921-22), 
5 or 6 of whom may probably complete work for the master's degree by close of summer 
session, 1922. Some of these problems are: Experimental Studies on Gingerbread; 
Extent to Which Artificial Silk is Replacmg True SUk in Clothing; Current Methods of 
Teaching Laundering in Iowa High Schools; Plan for Construction, Decoration, and 
Furnishing of Model Apartment, with Cost Estimates. 



1922] CURRENT HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH 235 

SCHOOL OF PRACTICAL ARTS, TEACHERS COLLEGE, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY' 

Departments concerned are indicated as follows: B, Biology; BC, Biochemistry; C, 
Cookery; PT, Physical Training; HA, Household Administration; HC, Household Chemistry; 
N, Nutrition. 

Subject Researrk. 

Vitamine Yeast Test Studies 
Cream of Wheat Studies, Infant Cereal Problem 
Studies of Frying Fats 
Studies of Fondant Making 
Metal Polishes and Floor Waxes 
Cleaning Agents and Effect on Fabrics 
Pressure Cooker EtBciency 
Ice Cream Making; salt and ice proportions 
Grades of Food and Buying Problems 
Almonds, and Otlier Nuts as a Source of Vitamin A 
The Utilization of Calcium in Almonds 
The Basal Metabolism of Young Girls 
Researches on Corn Products Materials 
The Value of Phytin in Rickets Prevention 
Hemoglobin-Standardization of Tests 
Effect of Diet on Anemia 
Peanut Flour Studies 
The Chemical Nature of Vitamin B 
The Utilization of Calcium in Man 
The Laxative Properties of Vegetables 
The Basal Metabolism of the White Rat 
The Chemistry of Caramel 

The Transfer of Body Organisms and Bathing Appliances 
Butter Spoilage 

Vitamins and the Life of Stock Cultures 
Standard Teaching Outfits for High Schools 
Dish-washing and Germ Transfer 

Emulsification in Mayonnaise: A Project Undertaken in Co 
operation with Simmons College 
C Problems in Cake Mixing 

SrUMONS COLLEGE, BOSTON* 

The Chloride Content of Certain Foods. 

Distribution of Lime and Iron between Vegetable and Water in the Cold Pack Canning 

Process. 
Conditions Affecting the Jellification of Pecrin. 
Emulsification in Mayonnaise. 

COLORADO AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, FORT COLLINS, 1918-1921 

Cooking Qualiries of Colorado Potatoes. Dr. N. E. Goldthwaite. 

MILWAUKEE-DOWNER COLLEGE, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 1918-1921 

Hitherto Unreported Experiments with Different Fats in the Making of Cake and Pastry. 

Ruth F. Johnstin and Susan F. West. 
Cake Making to Determine Best Temperature for Baking "Butter" Cakes. Jour. Home 

Econ., 11, 352, 1919. 

' Researches given here are those to whicli approval and grants had been made, Novem- 
ber, 1921. 

* Theses in the Chemistry Department by Household Economics Students. 



Strial No. 


Depart. 


119 


BC 


219 


BC 


120 


BC;C;HC 


220 


BC;C 


320 


HA 


420 


HC 


520 


BC;C 


620 


C 


720 


C 


121 


N 


221 


N 


321 


N 


421 


BC 


521 


BC 


621 


BC;PT 


721 


BC 


S21 


BC;C 


921 


BC 


1021 


N 


1121 


N 


1221 


N 


1321 


HC 


1421 


B 


1521 


B 


1621 


B 


1721 


B 


1821 


B 




C 



236 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA, ST. PAUL 

Division of Home Economics 

Studies in the Determination and in the Utilization of the Relative Sweetening Power of 
Certain Sugars. Cecile C. Stone, Mildred Weigley, and Alice Blester. 

A Comparative Study of the Losses of Iron in Vegetables Cooked in Salted and Unsalted 
Water. Jean M. Dorsey and Alice Blester. 

A Study of Factors Relating to the Management and to the Food in a Group of Children's 
Homes. Mary C. Nye and Alice Biester. 

Studies on the Effect of Storage Upon the Keeping Quality of Certain Vegetables Canned 
by the One Period Cold Pack Method. Alice Biester, Mildred Weigley, and Winifred 
Case Knapp. (Part of thesis (M.S.) of W. C. Knapp. See Jour. Home Econ., 13, 
494, 1921.) 

Division oj Agricultural Biochemistry 

The Influence of Heat and Oxidation Upon the Nutritive and Antiscorbutic Properties of 
Cow's Milk. Edla V. Anderson and R. A. Butcher. (See Science, 53, 446, 1921.) 

The Carbon Dioxide Diffusion Ratio in Doughs as an Index of Flour Strength. Mildred 
Weigley and C. H. Bailey. 

College of Education 

An Analysis of Text Books in Textiles and Clothing. Ethel h. Phelps and M. E. Haggerty. 
A Study of the Relation Between Certain Variable Factors and Tensile Strength in a 
Group of Cotton Fabrics. (In progress.) Ethel L. Phelps and Anna Streed. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON 

Detailed Report of Home Economics Education in Normal Schools, Colleges, and Universities 

in the Pacific Northwest. Part of the work of the National Committee. Effie I. 

Raitt, Henrietta Walker. 
Textile Research in Institutions of Higher Education as Part of the National Committee 

Work. Grace G. Denny. 
Testing Textiles. Grace Dermy. 
Methods for Determining Shrinkage in Unbleached Muslin. Methods for Testing Textiles 

for Department Stores. Grace G. Denny and Research Students. 
Comparative Cost of Gas and Electricity for Cooking Purposes. jSIartha E. Dresslar. 
Study of Feeding Problems in Lumber Camps. Jessie R. Mueller. See Jour. Home Econ., 

13,241, 1921. 
Intensive Study of Food Consumption in Sunmier Camp of Undernourished Children. 

Martha Koehne and Dorothy Kuebler. 
Relative Expenditure of Money for Different Types of Food in Family and College Groups. 

Martha Koehne and Students. 

PEABODY COLLEGE, NASHVILLE, TENTJESSEE, 1918-1921 

Study of Combreads. Rena Wiggs, 1920. 

Fats and Their Uses in Pastry Making. Mary Carter Tatum, 1921. 

The Determination of the Baking Soda Equivalent of Sour Milk. Mary PrisciUa Vv'ilson. 
(Chemistry Department in cooperation with Home Economics Department.) 

REPORTS OF SURVEYS FROM CHILDREN'S BUREAU, V. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR OF SPECIAL 
INTEREST TO HOME ECONOMICS WORKERS. (1919 TO 1921) 

No. 46. Maternity and Infant Care in Two Rural Counties in Wisconsin, 1919. 



1922] CURRENT HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH 237 

In Press 

No. 87. Statures and Weights of Children Under SLx Years of Age. 

No. 88. Maternity and Child Care in Selected Rural Areas of Mississippi. 

No. 65. Child Care and Child Welfare; Outlines for Study. (Published by the Federal 

Board for Vocational Education, Washington, D. C.) 
Child Labor and the Work of Mothers in the Shrimp and Oyster Canning Industries on the 

Gulf Coast. 

In Preparation 

A Study of Industrial Conditions Affecting Children in an Anthracite Coal Mining Area. 

Children in Coal Mining Communities (West Virginia). 

Child Welfare in Cotton Growing Areas in Texas. 

Child Welfare in Representative Beet Growing Communities in Michigan and Colorado. 

Kentucky Nutritional Survey. 

Report on the Study of the Pre School Child in Gary, Indiana. 

SURVEYS IN HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION, MADE BY THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION, U. S. DEPART- 
MENT OF THE INTERIOR, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

Investigations in Methods of Teaching Home Economics in Secondary Schools. Mrs. 
Henrietta W. Calvin. 

Investigations in the Laws, National and State, which have Affected Home Economics 
Teaching, Research, and Education in the United States. Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin. 

Investigations of Home Economics Education in Normal Schools. Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin. 

Investigations of Rules Governing the Certification of Home Economics Teachers for Public 
Schools in the Various States. Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin. 

Investigations of the Number of High Schools Offering Home Economics Courses, Number of 
Girls Enrolled in Classes in Such Schools, Length and Frequency of Class Periods and 
Number of Home Economics Teachers Employed. Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin. 

Educational Surveys in Memphis, Term.; San Francisco, Cal.; Elyria, Ohio; Wheeling, W. Va.; 
Wilmington, Del.; Elizabeth City, N. C; State University of Arkansas; Higher Educa- 
tional Institutions of Iowa. Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin and others. 

StJRVEYS AND OTHER STUDIES FROM THE FEDERAL BOARD FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION, 
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

Survey of Junior Commercial Occupations. S. G. Nichols. 

Trade and Industrial Education for Girls and Women — A Study of Economics and Social 

Aspects of Vocational Education for Girls and Women. Mrs. Anna L. Burdick. 
Retail Selling. Mrs. Lucinda W. Prince. 

Home Projects — A Method of Instruction of Teaching Home Economics. Genevieve Fisher. 
Analysis of Home Making as a Basis for Courses of Instruction. ZeUa E. Bigelow. 
Source Material on the Teaching of Child Care and Child Welfare. The Children's Bureau 

in cooperation with the Federal Board for Vocational Education. 



238 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

EDITORIAL 

The Home Economics Teacher and the Health Program. The 

progress of child hygiene work in the United States during the past 
year is summed up by Dr. Richard A. Bolt, Director of the American 
Child Hygiene Association, in the February issue of Mother and Child. 
Doctor Bolt says that hand in hand with the widespread extension of 
educational work for child health has come the setting up of machinery 
to meet the needs of the community. The past year has witnessed a 
notable advance in our knowledge of causes of malnutrition in school 
children and the extent to which it occurs. Definite steps have been 
taken in the way of proper education of both mothers and teachers 
along nutrition lines, though much must be done to standardize methods 
of approaching the problem. 

We have also progressed in recogm'zing the need for instruction in 
nutrition of normal children, as well as of children who are 10 per cent 
and more underweight. Dr. Eugene R. Kelley, Commissioner of 
Public Health of Massachusetts, in a recent issue of the Commonwealth 
says that future development in the field of pubhc health rests in the 
enhghtenment of the average man, woman, and child, by the translation 
of the scientific knowledge that is extant into terms for use by every 
one. Doctor McCoUum, in a recent address before the New York 
Nutrition Council, stated that there was no mission so great as this 
discussed by Doctor Kelley. 

Health education in schools is many sided but no group is more widely 
estabhshed or better qualified to transmit education in nutrition than the 
teacher of home economics. Certainly there is no person in a school 
system who has had such intensive training in the science of nutrition, 
particularly if she is a recent graduate or has taken additional courses at 
some good school. It would seem that she should broaden her program 
to include food instruction in all the grades through the grade teacher, 
and assume the responsibility for the formation of right food habits. 

IMiss McCormick in her article "The Home Economics Teacher and 
Community Nutrition," in the January Journal, points out several 
ways in which the home economics teacher may initiate the work or 
cooperate in its development. 

There are many phases of the problem. The schedule must be ad- 
justed and, wherever possible, assistance rendered by increasing the 
personnel. In many cases the home economics teacher herself must 
take the initiative in bringing to the attention of the superintendent 



1922] EDITORIAL 239 

the contribution which her training enables her to make to the health 
program. Unfortunate indeed is the school in which the vision of the 
home economics teacher is limited to a curriculum which includes simply 
cooking and sewing without an appreciation of the relation between 
nutrition and health. Such teachers are in the minority. 

Is it not possible to work out an effective program through the coopera- 
tion of the grade teachers with the specialists in the school system? 
The grade teacher may be assisted by the supervisor or helping teacher 
to correlate health instruction with her other subject under the guidance 
of the medical director, school nurse, physical training director, and 
home economics teacher. Thus the home economics teacher may ful- 
fill her obligation to the entire school. 

Rickets and Sunlight. Out of the plethora of literature about 
rickets there seems to emerge at last an indication that the theories of 
those who have been studying its etiology and treatment are approach- 
ing some sort of agreement. McCollum of Johns Hopkins University 
anticipates the layman's impatience to have the rickets question settled 
and warns that the formation of definite conclusions had best be deferred 
until other experimental work is completely developed. Only two or 
three of the salient facts of the most recent articles are summarized 
here. 

In regard to diet McCollum and his collaborators''^ believe that an 
unidentified substance in cod-liver oil exerts a favorable influence on bone 
growth and that this substance is not fat-soluble A \'itamine. When it 
is absent from the diet of rats, either a low calcium or a low phosphorus 
intake will produce rickets. Moreover, if this principle be present the 
animals are able to develop on a diet low in calcium much better than 
they could otherwise do. 

Sunlight as well as the potent factor in cod-liver oil can prevent the 
incipiency of rickets. On this point McCollum and Hess et al.^ agree, 
though Hess attaches no special significance to cod-Kver oil as a curative. 
He and his co-authors, working in New York City, find that by frequent 

' McCollum, E. v., Simmonds, N., Shipley, P. G., and Park, E. A. Is There a Substance 
Other than Fat-soluble A Associated with Certain Fats which Plays an Important R61e in 
Bone Development? Jour. Biol. Client., 1922, 50: 5. 

« Shipley, P. G., Park, E. A., McCollum, E. V., and Simmonds, N. Is There More than 
One Kind of Rickets? Amer. Jour. Dis. Child., 1922, 23: 91. 

•■ Hess, A. F., Unger, L. J., and Pappenheimer, A. M. The Prevention of Rickets in Rats 
by Exposure to Sunlight. Jour. Biol. Chem., 1922, 50: 77. 



240 THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

short exposures to the sun's rays the characteristic symptoms of rickets 
in infants are diminished in three to four weeks time. 

The discover}' of a possible fourth vitamine of anti-rachitic nature 
cannot thrill us since our wonder at the accomplishments of these elusive 
substances reached its peak years ago. But the astounding thing lies 
in the demonstration of this not yet understood power of the sun's 
rays to off-set the ill effects of a poor diet. 

Sybil Woodrupf. 

OPEN FORUM 

The National Income of Housewives. In the computation of the 
national income the Bureau of Economic Research' deliberately omits 
to calculate the income for services of housewives. As far as this study 
is concerned the housewife is not a producer. Let us consider this a 
moment. Think of the change in our economic system if the cooking 
of meat, vegetables, fruit, and other foods were taken out of the hands of 
housewives, or if household management, laundering, care of children, 
and other household duties were transferred to the industrial system. 
What a tremendous income would accrue for these services! 

The study reveals that 9.25 per cent of all income receivers have an 
income of less than $600; 22.35 per cent, an income of less than $800; 
54.51 per cent, an income of less than S1200; 72.01 per cent, an income of 
less than $1500; 85.92 per cent, an income of less than $2000. 

The share of the national income which should be credited to house- 
wives becomes conspicuously large by virtue of the very figures which 
ignore it. For as the income of a family decreases the services of the 
housewife increase. It is required of her that she skillfully manage 
a small income to meet the elemental family needs. She is obliged to 
render services which a small income cannot buy. She is forced to 
labor longer hours to compensate the deficiency in income. We have a 
situation which parallels the law of conservation of energj'. The ser- 
vices and commodities which are not produced by family income find an 
outlet in the services of the housewife and her assistants in the family. 

It is not altogether true that the Bureau of Economic Research has 
entirely ignored the services of housewives. In a special section an es- 
timate of the value of the services of housewives is given which, if it 
were included, would comprise 20 per cent of the total income. The 
figure for 1909 is 8.85 bUhon dollars and is based upon the pay of domes- 

1 The Income of the United States, The Bureau of Economic Research, 1921. 



1922] QUESTION BOX 241 

tic servants before the war, put at $500, and the estimated number of 
women engaged in housework, put at 18 million. In 1919, due to in- 
crease in wages the pay of the houseworker is put at $900, and due to 
increase in population the total number of houseworkers is put at 
20,700,000, giving 18.45 billion dollars as the estimated income of 
housewives' services. 

If it is true that the value of the services of the housewife is inversely 
proportional to the family income, then the flat estimate of $500 in 
1909 and $900 in 1919 is entirely too low. The figures showing the 
distribution of incomes quoted above give a hint as to the real value of 
services which the great mass of housewives are obHged to render to 
balance the deficiencies in the income of the great majority of American 
famiUes. 

There are certain practical reasons why the income analysis of the 
Bureau of Economic Research should omit the income of housewives. 
Such a significant study cannot run the risk of gross misinterpretation 
due to current standards of money value. For example, if the income 
for housewives were included the per capita income would increase from 
$629 to $796. Specially interested persons would be quick to take ad- 
vantage of the figures and to give them an interpretation damaging to 
wage standards. 

All this, however, points to the need of reorganizing the thinking of 
people concerning the economic services of housewives and their eft'ect 
upon economic life. The way must be made ready so that the next 
calculation of the nation's income wiU not find it necessary to apologize 
for the exclusion of the income from more than one-fifth of our national 
production. 

Henry Harap. 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: In looking over a copy of the Journal of December, 1917, 
I notice, on page 545, the statement that "Cloves and allspice are effec- 
tive in large amounts; ciimamon is not effective." In an article in the 
Journal of December, 1911, it was stated that cloves and cinnamon 
were both efl'ective, in certain amounts, for the preservation of foods in 
which they are used, allspice and others having been found wholly 
useless for this purpose. Will you kindly inform me which, if either, 
statement is correct? 



242 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Answer: There is considerable difference in the behavior of different 
organisms to the various spices. There is also some difference in the 
strength of the diff'erent brands of spices. In the 191 1 article no attempt 
was made to determine the effect of the various spices on any one organ- 
ism. In the experiments, the apple sauce was mixed with spice, steri- 
lized by steam for thirty minutes, and subsequently exposed in the 
laboratory "for a few days to receive contamination from the air." In 
the other experiments (Bachmann, 1916) several types of organisms 
were worked with and all conditions were carefully controlled. As a 
result of the trials with ground spices. Miss Bachmann concludes as 
follows: "Cinnamon appears to have more antiseptic properties 
generally than either allspice or cloves. Cinnamon has little antiseptic 
value toward Rhizopus, but is valuable in preventing the growth of 
Alternaria, Penicillum and Aspergillus. Cloves are about as effective 
as allspice for Rhizopus and Aspergillus, but somewhat less so for Alter- 
naria and Penicillum. . . . B.prodigiosus appears to be only slightly 
sensitive to spices, while B. substilis did not grow on even a 1 to 100 
dilution of cloves and of allspice." 

The original article, from which the abstract in the Journal of 1917 
was quoted, states "Cloves and allspice in large amounts are quite 
effective in preventing the growth of molds and bacteria, and cinnamon 
is most effective of the spices; this is true of the ground spices, their 
astringent oils and alcoholic extracts." The statement that "cinnamon 
is not effective" was obviously mis-quoted. 

Question: One of our students says that the physician in charge of 
a large well known sanitarium states that if sugar is added to the citrus 
fruits when eaten, the result will be that, instead of adding to the alka- 
linity, an acid condition of the blood will be caused, no definite amount 
of sugar being stated. Is there any truth in this statement? 

Answer: There is nothing in the scientific Uterature, so far as we can 
find, that warrants such a statement. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Here and Now Story Book. By Lucy 

Spragtje Mitchell. New York: E. P. 

Dutton and Company, 1921, pp. 360. 

$2.00. 

Today this book is considered remarkable; 
tomorrow it may be considered epocli 
making. It is remarkable for several 
reasons: first, it is written from the point 
of view of a mother in her home, as well as 
that of a teacher in the schoolroom; second, 
it follows the scientific rather than the tra- 
ditional approach to stories for children 
between the ages of two and seven; third, 
it gives a basis from the standpoint of mod- 
em psychology for the choice of content and 
form of stories for young children; fourth, 
it is a pattern book, a method book — not 
an anthology — with original stories by both 
the author and the children themselves. 

The first reason for considering this book 
remarkable is that Mrs. Mitchell writes 
from the standpoint of a mother who knows 
young children, not only in fie intimacy of 
home life, but also in the more formal life 
of the schoolroom. This is significant 
because the trend of education is toward 
stressing the educational development of 
children of nursery age, which means that 
the mother-teacher, before many years have 
passed, will have a recognized place in the 
teaching profession, and will be trained for 
it as is any other teacher. 

Already, courses in household arts and 
science include training in the physical care 
of young children, and are given quite 
generally in high schools, technical schools 
and colleges. But a child is not merely a 
physical being. This fact scientists are 
emphasizing more and more. The medical 
profession— particularly that branch spe- 
cializing in nervous illnesses — is giving con- 
vincing evidence every day that the trend 
of mental and moral development is largely 
determined during the nursery years. This 
being so, it is only a question of time when 
the mother (and let us hope the father too) 
will be trained for her great educational 



responsibility. Mrs. Mitchell is a mother 
who has already made a place for herself in 
the educational world. 

The second reason is that it substitutes the 
scientific for the traditional approach to 
stories for children between the ages of two 
and seven. In order to do this, Mrs. 
Mitchell has conscientiously tried to first 
rid herself of preconceived ideas of what 
characterizes suitable stories for young chil- 
dren. Then she has gone to the children 
themselves to determine what things get 
their spontaneous attention, and further- 
more what relationships are natural and 
intelligible to them at two, three, four, five, 
six, seven years of age. In this way she 
determines the content of the story. To 
determine the form she again goes direct 
to the children, using their own spontaneous 
art forms as well as the story and verse 
patterns universal in their appeal to young 
children. The pragmatic test shows that 
children, even children outside of Mrs. 
Mitchell's groups, foUow the stories with 
interest and delight. 

The third reason is that it gives a basis, 
from the standpoint of modem psychology, 
for the choice of content and form of chil- 
dren's stories. Her own relarion to the 
Bureau of Educational Experiments, with 
which one associates the name of Dr. Dewey, 
naturally leads one to expect that the 
psychological basis of her book is in accord 
with his teaching. She uses as this basis 
the here and now — what is familiar to a 
child. In "How We Think," Doctor 
Dewey says that what is famiUar in a 
child's everyday life is the teacher's starting 
point, but that she must see that he rec- 
ognizes meanings in and beyond what 
is famihar. Already the familiar activities 
of the household and neighborhood, espe- 
cially where they relate to adults, are full 
of wonder and of mystery to a young child. 
Given a part in them he feels himself of 
importance in the social group. He needs 
must be doing, for he thinks in sense and 
243 



244 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



motor terms. For this reason Mrs. Mitchell 
clothes her stories in motor terms and 
terms of sense. Action, color, sound 
vivify both verse and story. 

The fourth reason is that this is a pattern 
book with original stories by botli the author 
and the children themselves. That it took 
courage to put forth such a book, Mrs. 
Mitchell admits, for adults do not easily 
speak with little children in their own 
language, much less publish their attempts 
to do so. But she has done so in tlie hope of 
reaching others who like herself are tr>Tng 
to follow the lead of little children into 
their story world. The book is rich in 
suggestion and illustration, with a dynamic 
quality challenging in its effect. For that 
reason it is sure to arouse discussion. The 
fact that it has been printed three times in 
its first four months shows that it is meeting 
a real need, although the charm and spirit 
with which the book is written, its cogent 
presentation of its thesis, hold the attention 
of those who read it for recreation as weU as 
those who read it for a serious purpose. 
Elizabeth Jenkins. 

A Form of Record for Hospital Social Work. 

By Gertrude L. Farmer. Philadelphia: 

J. B. Lippincott and Company, 1921, 

pp. 81. SI. 50. 

In this book. Miss Farmer, Director, 
Department of Social Work, Boston City 
Hospital, presents a valiant attempt to 
break with the prolix chronological social 
case record and to work out for the special- 
ized field of hospital social ser\-ice a form of 
record which will give a succinct, \-ivid, 
accurate picture of the individual patient 
and the treatment involved in the nature 
of his trouble, and will also facilitate mea- 
surement of social cause and eft"ect. 

Miss Farmer's method is to recognize 
differentiation of ser\-ice required and her 
"Form" is adjustable to this use. Briefly, 
it provides for three types of need : 

1. The so-called "SUght" or "Short 
Service" rendered to a considerable number 
of patients without much social investiga- 
tion. This is recorded on a 3 x 5 card calling 
for Identifying Information, Nationality, 



Church, Industry, Occupation, Medical 
Diagnosis, Hospital Treatment, Referred 
by and Why, Statement of patient and 
possibly of nearest relatives and friends, 
Reports of agencies and what was done as 
expressed in statistical action taken. 

2. Intehsive social case work indicating 
such follow-up service as would complete the 
medical treatment plus the adjusting of the 
social problem, even if not by hospital 
social service. This is rendered to a com- 
paratively smaU number of patients. The 
form used is a 5 x 8 card which provides for 
all the information on the "Slight Service" 
card and in addition includes the following 
topical headings: Financial Condition, Re- 
sources, and, to quote Miss Farmer, "The 
thought-compelling questions" — Social Prob- 
lem, Social Background to Medical Condi- 
tion, Plan. 

3. An extension folder record is attached 
to the 5x8 record card. This consists of loose 
sheets, tj^jewritten on both sides with 
suggested topical headings, such as How the 
Case Came to Us, Sources of Information, 
Social Analysis of Patient, Social Treat- 
ment Given. This is filed in a manila 
folder which bears the same number as the 
5x8 record card of which it is the extension 
folder. This summarized and adaptable 
device is the feature which saves the form 
from becoming a stereot>-ped questioimaire. 
If the record cards were used without it, the 
form would constitute a reversion to the 
obsolete social case work record when the 
agency's action was of supreme interest and 
when there was little individualization of the 
patient and no thought of the larger social 
issues involved. 

Admirable as it is to make a record con- 
cise, to provide for statistical measurement 
of significant factors, to summarize and to 
minimize clerical labor, that which is most 
fundamental to any form of social work with 
the individual is to determine his person- 
ality — the capacity and tendency of the 
individual to adjust himself to a situa- 
tion, physical, mental, or social. This is not 
yet measurable in precise quantitative terms. 
The extension folder permits of a narrative 
supplement which may record interpretation 



1922] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



245 



of the individual's character, environment, 
and previous and present responses to 
critical situations as viewed by others as 
well as by the worker. 

To complete the form, a 3 x 5 index card, 
with name, address, case number, date 
referred, and from which medical depart- 
ment or service of the hospital, is filed by 
name, and used in connection with the 5x8 
record card. 

The danger in the use of forms should be 
recognized especially if placed in the hands 
of a partially trained worker. The spaced 
topical heading encourages an easy reliance 
upon one word to describe a problem or a 
person, such as shiftless. If not checked by 
a watchful supervisor a form will tend to 
arbitrarily assign one case as the social 
problem, and wiU therefore react upon the 
thinking of the worker, limiting the range of 
suggested causes and permitting her personal 
bias to enter into the decision of what shall 
be done to help the individual. One also 
questions the use of the "Short Service" 
card with its limited information as sufficient 
basis upon which to "interpret to outside 
agencies the need involved in the after- 
care of the patient, the major part of the 
outside social care of whom is to be borne 
by the cooperating agencies." 

In the analytical study of cases referred 
from a hospital social service department it 
is found that much unnecessary suffering 
and delay are inflicted on the patient 
because of a failure to prescribe the fitting 
agency to help the patient. 

From this sounding of warning against 
a too narrow use of forms for social records 
attention should be drawn to the intrinsic 
merit of Miss Farmer's Form. It is a direct 
challenge to the social worker to tidy up her 
mind, to search for facts to analyze and to 
interpret in order to solve a problem of 
human welfare; to the social organization 
to provide supervision which will see that 
this use of the form is made by the worker 
in order to secure the best return from 
minimum mechanical effort. 

Miss Farmer very properly asks this 
pointed question, "While admitting that to 
succeed in writing a summary picture 
record in ... . few words . . . 
and in readable form is not easy and 



demands a certain intellectual and educa- 
tional background, do we not want all 
hospital social service workers to stand up 
to such a test?" 

Social undertakings in allied fields will 
call for the same test for its personnel; 
therefore this book will be highly suggestive 
to leaders in other social enterprises, and 
after reading it they will be disposed to 
agree with Miss Farmer in saying that 
"The conveying of information in few 
words, yet adequately ... is part of the 
technique of a good hospital social worker. 
It is quite useful in other walks of life." 
Haeriet Townsend, 

Teachers College. 

Handbook of Social Resources of the United 
States. By Genevteve Poyneer Hend- 
ricks. Washington: American Red Cross, 
1921, pp. 300. $1.00. 
This handbook was compiled to furnish 
Red Cross workers with information regard- 
ing national social agencies in the United 
States. It does not include associations 
whose work is confined to local interests 
or to war time service. Inclusion in the 
book does not mply endorsement of pur- 
pose or methods, nor does omission imply 
disapproval. 

"Endeavor has been made to include for 
each organization mention of its general 
program; its specific activities; the annual 
meeting, and whether it is open to the public; 
the names and work of special and standing 
committees and commissions; field work and 
lecture service, to whom available and on 
what terms; information service and clearing 
house work, and how this service may be 
secured; references and hbrary facihties; 
survey and investigational activities." 

The 371 organizat'ons and institutions 
described appear in alphabetical order, but 
tliey may be located by consulting the sub- 
ject index or the locality index. The loose 
leaf form allows for the insertion of addi- 
tional agencies or information. 

While this book was intended for the use 
of Red Cross workers it will be found 
extremely useful to any member of a national 
organization interested in cooperating with 
other organizations. 



246 THE JOXXRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture: 
Chimneys and Fireplaces. Farmer's Bulletin 1230. 

Food Values: How Foods Meet Body Needs. By E. A. Winslow. Farmer's Bulletin 975. 
An Improved Method of Making Sugar Beet Sirup. By C. O. Townsend. Farmer's Bulletia 

1241. 
The Paper Dress Form. Circular 207. 
A Week's Food for an Average Family. By C. L. Hunt. Farmer's Bulletin 1228. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Census: 
Cotton Production and Distribution, Season of 1920-1921. Bulletin 147. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 
Educational Work of the Boy Scouts. Bulletin No. 41. 
Educational Work of the Girl Scouts. Bulletin No. 46. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Infant Care. Care of Children Series No. 2, Bureau Publication No. 8 (Revised) 
Ninth Annual Report of the Chief, Children's Bureau to the Secretary of Labor. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Women's Bureau: 
Iowa Women in Industry. Bulletin of the Women's Bureau, No. 19. 
Standards for the Employment of Women in Industry. Bulletin No. 3. 
State Laws AJecting Working Women. Bulletin of the Women's Bureau, No. 16. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Naturalization: 
Suggestions for .Americanization Work Among Foreign-Born Women. 

Issued by the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas: 
Textile Fibers and Fabrics. By Helen Bray. College Bull. No. 92. 
What's What in Textiles. By Julia Tear. CoUege Bull. No. 89. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

Experimental Rickets. By E. Mellanby. Medical Research Council. Spec'l Rept. Ser. 
No. 61. H. M. Stationery Office, London. 

Family Budgets of American Wage Earners. National Industrial Conference Board, 10 E. 
39th St., N. Y. 

International Record of Child Welfare Work. By the International .Association for the Pro- 
motion of Child Welfare, Brussels. 

Tlie Microscopic Study of Bacteria in Cheese. N. Y. State Sta. Tech. Bulletin 87. 

Poisoning from Bacillus Botutinus: Cause, Prevention, Treatment. Mich. Sta. Cir. Bull. 47. 

Testing Milk, Cream, and Skim Milk for Butter Fat. Calif. Sta. Circ. 230. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 
Periodical Literature 

Foods and Nutrition 

Abderhalden, E.: Studies on the Influence of Food on the Health of an Individual, Length of 
Life, Fertility, and Fate of Offspring. Pfluger's Arch. Physiol., 1919, 175: 187-326. 
Abstract in Expt. Sta. Rec., 1921, 45: 8(A. 



1922] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 247 

Benedict, C. G., and Benedict, F. G.: The Energy Content of Extra Food (Sandwiches) 

nr. Bost. Med. Surg. .J., 1921, 184: 436-439. 
Benedict, F. G.: Calories for Children. N. Y. Med. J., 1922, 115: 126-130. 
Berman, L.: Iron as a Growth Factor in Infancy. Med. Rec. 1921. 100: 589-591. 
Bloor, W. R.: Fat Transport in the Animal Body. Physiol. Rev., 1922, 2: 92-115. 
Denis, W., Sisson, W. R., and Aldrich, M.: .\ Study of the Effect Produced on the Composi- 
tion of Milk by the Administration of Certain Inorganic Substances. /. Biol. Chem., 

1922, 50: 315-322. 
Fiirth, O., and Lieben, F.: Colorimetric Studies of Trypotophan, VI. The Tryptophan 

Content of Some Foodstuffs and the Tryptophan Requirement of Man during Growth. 

Biochem. Z., 1921, 122: 58-85. 
Hawlcins, L. .\.: A Physiological Study of Grapefruit Ripening and Storage. J. Agr. 

Research, 1922, 22: 263-279. 
Hopkins, F. G.: Some O.xidative Mechanisms of the Cell. Bull. Johns Hopkins Uosp., 

1921,32: 321-328. 
Hopkins, F. G.: The Chemical Dynamics of Muscle. Bull. .Johns Hopkins Hasp., 1921, 

32: 359-367. 
Hubbard, R. S., and Wright, F. R.: Studies on the Acetonuria Produced by Diets Containing 

Large Amounts of Fats. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 50: 361-402. 
Kaiser, A. D.: Effect of Tonsillectomy on Nutrition in Twelve Hundred Children. Am. J. 

Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 139-141. 
Kennedy, C, and Dutcher, R. A.: Vitamine Studies, IX. The Influence of the Diet of the 

Cow upon the Quantity of Vitamines A and B in the Milk. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 50: 3i^ 

359. 
Kopeloff, N.: Individual Variations as Influencing Rehfuss Fractional Method of Gastric 

Analysis. .J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 404-406. 
La Mer, O. K., Campbell, H. L., and Sherman, H. C: The Effect of Temperature and the 

Concentration of Hydrogen Ions upon the Rate of Destruction of Antiscorbutic Vit- 
amin (Vitamin C). J. Am. Chem. Soc, 1922, 44: 172-181. 
Lewis, H. B., and Root, L. E.: The Metabolism of Sulfur. IV. The Oxidation of Cystine 

in the Animal Organism. .T . Biol. Chem., 1922, 50: 303-310. 
Mendelson, I. W., McCoy, A. E., and Long, A. G.: Elimination of Molds from Butter. 

./. Lab. Clin. Med., 1922, 7: 208-214. 
Mitchell, P. H., and Wilson, J. W. : The Selective Absorption of Potassium by Animal Cells. 

I. Conditions Controlling the Absorption and Retention of Potassium. J. Gen. 

Physiol., 1921, 4: 45-56. 
O'Keefe, E. S.: A Dietary Consideration of Eczema in Younger Children. J. Am. Med. 

Assoc, 1922, 78: 483, 484. 
Rowntree, L. G.: The Water Balance of the Body. Physiol. Rev., 1922, 2: 116-169. 
Sherman, H. C, La Mer, V. K., and Campbell, H. L.: The Quantitative Determination of 

the Antiscorbutic Vitamin (Vitamin C). /. Am. Chem. Soc, 1922, 44: 165-172. 
Shipley, P. G., Park, E. A., McCollum, E. V. and Simmonds, N.: Is There More Than One 

Kind of Rickets? Ain. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 91-106. 
Stewart, D. M. : Feeding High Fat Diets in Diabetis. Mod. Hasp., 1922, 18: 164, 165. 
Townsend, J. G.: Milk as a Factor in the Nation's Health. Nation's Health, 1922, 4: 60-64. 
White, C. P.: Copper in Tumors and Normal Tissues. Lancet, 1921, 2: 701-703. 
Willaman, J. J.: Do We Digest AU Fats EquaUy WeU? Am. Food J., 1922, 17: 15, 16. 
Wilson, W. H.: The Diet Factor in Pellagra. /. Hyg., 1921, 20: 1-59. 
Pellagra Studies, U. S. Hyg. Lab. Bull., 1920, 120, 156 p. 
Proceedings of the American Society of Biological Chemists, SLxteenth Annual Meeting, 

Dec. 28-30, 1921, J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 50, No. 2, I-LVl. 



248 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 



Textiles and Clothing 

Chittick, J. Counting Threads in Fabrics. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 331-380. 

Crawford, M. D. C. The History of Textiles in the New World. Posselt's Textile J., 

1921,29: 113, 118. 
Darby, W. D. Silk the Queen of Fabrics. I. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4045; 23, 24; 

No. 4046: 37, 236; No. 4047: 29, 31; No. 4048: 37, 130. 
Edwards, W. F. The Examination of Raw Silk. Textile World, 1922, 61: 329, 331. 
Garside, A. H. World Supply and Consumption of American Cotton. Posselt's Textile J., 

1921, V, 29: No. 6, p. VTII. 
Hill, J. A. Judging Fineness of Wool. TexUle World, 1922, 61 : 97-98. 
-^. Micrometer Tests for Wool. Textiles, 1922, 20: 21, 24. 
Hodge, A. Bleaching Cotton Goods. Textiles, 1922, 20: 19. 
Lowe, H. Mercerization and Spinning. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 425, 427. 
Matos, L. J. The Dyeing of Worsted Fabrics. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 423, 425. 
Meadows, W. R., and Blair, W. G. Regirmed and Cleaned Cottons. Textile World, 1922, 

61:201. 
Turner, W. L. The Canadian Flax and Linen Industry. Textile World, 1922, 61: 413. 
Analysis of Linen Fabrics. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, v. 29, No. 6. p. XII, XIII, XIV. 
Cross Dyeing of Cotton and .\rtificial Silk. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, v. 29, No. 6, p. XI, XII. 
To Distinguish ^Mercerized from Untreated Cotton. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, v. 29, No. 6, 

p. VIII-X. 
Fabric Analysis — Testing Yarns and Fabrics for Moisture. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, v. 29, 

No. 5, p. XVin, XEX, XXI, XXII. 
Fabric Analysis— Total Size or Sizing J^latters. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29: 94-96. 
Identification of Fibers of Animal and Vegetable Origin. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29: 

91-92. 
The Invention of Wool Carbonizing. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29: 126. 
The Manufacture of Paper Yams. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, v. 29, No. 6, p. XVI, XVTI. 
Preparation and Dyeing of Jute. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29: 101-102. 
The Preparing, Spinning, and Weaving of Ramie or Rhea Fibre and China Grass. Posselt's 

Textile J., 1921, v. 29, No. 6, p. X, XVII, XVTII. 
Silk Weighting. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29: 132, III, V. 
The Sizing of Cotton Yam. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29: 107-108. 
Technical Analysis in Dyeing. Posselt's Textile J., 1921, 29: 99-100. 

Miscellaneous 

Boyer, J. Dirty Money and Disease. 5<;i. ^J». Mo., 1921, 4: 344-346. 

Charters, W. W. The Lknitations of the Project Method. J. Natl. Educ. Assoc, 1922, 

11:17-19. 
Cummings, H. S. A Significant Public Health Message. The Nation's Health, 1922, 4: 1-2. 
Kellogg, V. The National Research Council. Educ. Rev., 1921, 62: 365-373. 
Mac Eachem, M. T. WTiat Constitutes Good Service to the Patient. Hasp. Soc. Service, 

1922,5: 1-11. 
Smith, W. R. The Professional Status of Teaching. Educ. Rev., 1922, 63: 35^9. 
Stewart, D. M. A Suggested Extension Project in Dietotherapy. Hasp. Soc. Service, 1922, 

5: 36, 37. 
Tandy, J. R. College Teaching of Elementary BibUography. Educ. Rev., 1921 , 62 : 382-391 . 
Wells, E. F. Health Work as Conducted by the University of Idaho, Extension Division. 

Hasp. Soc. Service, 1922, 5: 29-35. 
Whitney, M. P. The Higher Education of Women in Italy. Edtic. Ra\, 1921, 62: 374-381. 



1922] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 249 

NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

THE HOME ECONOinCS SPECIAL 

Chicago to Con'allis, July 26-31, 1922 
Annual IMeeting, August 1-5, 1922 

Summer Tourist round trip fare, Chicago to Portland $85,00 

Lower berth, Chicago to Portland, as per schedule 24 . 75 

Approximate expense of meals in dining car en route 1 2 . 00 

The complete two-day tour in Glacier Park 26.25 

Total $149.00 

The upper berth rate, Chicago to Portland S19.80 

Drawing room, accommodating three to five people 87.00 

Compartment, accommodating two to four people 69.50 

Railroad fare Portland to CorvaUis (one-way) 3.17 

Round trip fare, Chicago to Portland, returning via California S104.00 

The route from Chicago is via the C. B. & Q. to St. Paul and the Great Northern, St. 
Paul to Portland. Members should make sure that tickets read accordingly, as this is the 
route of our Special Train. Tickets may be purchased at any point. 

Schedule. Leave Chicago 10 a.m. July 26; leave St. Paul 10:45 p.m. same day; arrive 
Glacier Park 8 a.m. July 28; leave Glacier Park 8 p.m. July 29; arrive Portland 7:45 a.m. 
July 31. The full schedule appeared on page 152 of the March JomtNAL. 

The departure from Chicago, 10:00 a.m., will allow ample time for members coming 
from the south and southeast to make connections at Chicago. Members from Kansas City 
and adjacent points, from St. Louis and points south should have their tickets routed via 
their direct line to St. Paul, and the Great Northern to Portland. They should arrange 
to arrive in St. Paul in ample time to connect with o\ix Special TraiB, leaving St. Paul at 10:45 
p.m. July 26. Those who cannot join the special should arrive in Portland in time for the 
tour of the city starting 9:30 a.m., July 31. 

Return Routes. The return routes must be definitely decided upon before purchasing round 
trip tickets. Stopovers are permitted at aU points on the return trip. Applicarion for stop- 
over is made to the conductor of the train. Railroads will arrange for special cars where a 
sufficient number wish to return by the same route. The Great Northern and the Northern 
Pacific are the lines between Cor\'aUis and Portland. From Portland, one may have the 
choice of the following routes: 

1. S. P. & S. to Spokane via north bank of Columbia River, Northern Pacific to St. 
Paul, Burlington Route to Chicago; or, from Spokane, the Northern Pacific to Billings, 
Burlington to Chicago via Denver, ^^^th free side trip to Colorado Springs, if desired. 

2. Union Pacific to Ogden, D. & R. G. via Salt Lake City through the Royal Gorge, 
the Canyon of the Grand, and Colorado Springs to Denver, Burlington Route to Chicago. 
Side trip may be made from Salt Lake City or Ogden to Yellowstone Park in connection with 
the above route. 

3. Canadian Pacific S. S. Co. to Victoria, thence Vancover, Canadian Pacific, M. St. P. 
& S. S. 'M. to St. Paul through Canadian Rockies, Burlington Route to Chicago. 



250 THE JOXIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

4. Southern Pacific to San Francisco, Western Pacific to Salt Lake City through Feather 
River Canyon, D. & R. G. through the Royal Gorge, the Canyon of the Grand, and Colo- 
rado Springs to Denver, C. B. & Q. to Chicago; or, from San Francisco, Southern Pacific 
to Los Angeles, Union Pacific to Salt Lake City, D. & R. G. through the Royal Gorge, 
Canyon of the Grand, and Colorado Springs to Denver, C. B. & Q. to Chicago; or, from 
Los Angeles, Santa Fe to Chicago. If Grand Canyon side trip is desired, on the return trip 
via the Santa Fe, add $9.12. 

Note: Tickets reading C. B. & Q. Denver to Chicago, are honored either via Omaha or 
Kansas City to Chicago. 

3. "Columbia River Route" — Direct from Portland to Chicago, via Union Pacific Sys- 
tem and C. & N. W. through Hood River, Pocatello, Cheyenne, Omaha. Side trip may he 
made from Pocatello to Yellowstone Park. 

6. "Overland Limited Route" — Southern Pacific to San Francisco. From San Fran- 
cisco direct to Chicago, via Southern Pacific, Union Pacific and C. & N. W., through Reno, 
Ogden, Cheyenne, and Omaha. 

7. "Los Angeles Limited Route" — S. P. to Los Angeles. From Los Angeles direct to 
Chicago, via Union Pacific, C. & N. W. through Salt Lake City, Ogden, Cheyenne, and 
Omaha. 

Note: On any of the above routes, tickets can be purchased to return from Ogden via 
D. & R. G. through Salt Lake City, Glenwood Springs, Colorado Springs, Denver, thence 
to Chicago via Union Pacific and C. & N. W. or via Kansas City and C. M. & St. P. at the 
same rate. 

8. O.-W. R. & N. to Seattle, Seattle to Chicago, C. M. & St. P. via the famous Olympian 
train which for 649 miles is handled by electric locomotives. 

9. Union Pacific, Great Northern, or Northern Pacific, to Seattle, Seattle to Victoria 
via C. P. R. Princess Steamer, Victoria to Lake Louise and Banff, through Canadian Rockies; 
thence to Minneapolis; Minneapolis to Chicago via the Soo Line. There are three varia- 
tions of this trip with different stopovers from which to choose. 

10. S. P. to Los Angeles, Los Angeles to Chicago on the California Limited of the Atchi- 
son, Topeka, and Santa Fe with a schedule arranged for a twelve hour day-light stopover at 
Grand Canyon. 

Detailed itineraries of any of these routes will be sent upon request 

Do not hesitate about making plans to go because you "hate to go alone." You will 
become acquainted as soon as you are on the train, as each car will have a hostess — your car 
might have one from the starting point. 

Assignments in cars wUl be made in tlie order in which requests for reservations are 
received. Return postal cards will be sent for this purpose to all members of the Association. 
Others may make their reservations by communicaring directly with Nina Streeter, Chair- 
man Travel Committee, 1370 East 54th Street, Chicago, HI. 



ALABAMA were covered. Aside from their work in 
home economics they took special training 

The County Home Demonstration Agents j^^ horticulture, poultry, auto mechanics, 

of Alabama spent the month of January in ^^^ beekeeping. 

special training at the Alabama Polytechnic ^j,;^ ,^.^^ ^^^ ,„„^^^j ^^^^^^ ^f ^p^^;^; ^^^j^. 

Institute, Auburn, under the instruction of ;„g ^^^^ provided^for the home demonstra- 

Helen Green, Head of the Home Economics ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^j Alabama. Incidentally, this 

Department. The course of study was is the first year for the Alabama Polyt'cchnic 

largely of the productive nature, but so far institute to luive a Department of Home 

as was practical other divisions of the work Economics 



1922] 



KEWS FROM THE FIELD 



251 



CONNECTICUT 

The Connecticut Home Economics Asso- 
ciation held its annual meeting Saturday, 
February 4, 1922, at the Xew Haven High 
School. After an address by Dr. David 
Snedden and the discussion of atfiiliation 
led by Agnes Craig, a luncheon was served 
at the Business and Professional Woman's 
Club. The afternoon program was as 
follows: Clothing Discussion led by Mrs. 
Bessie Birdsall, Connecticut Agricultural 
College; Nutrition Program, Mrs. Amy D. 
Storer, American Red Cross; Foods for the 
Foreign Born, Bertha Wood, Boston Dis- 
pensary. 



Child Health Class. The Health Class 
for children has become a regular part of 
the summer program of the Home Economics 
Department of the University of Chicago. 
For the past two summers a group of under- 
weight children has served as a demonstra- 
tion class for teaching home economics 
students and teachers how to conduct 
nutrition classes for children. This year in 
addition to this usual course, a special course 
dealing with nutrition in the public school 
program will be offered for superintendents, 
principals, and teachers in connection with 
this Health Class. 



The Des Moines Salary Schedule. For 
the purpose of attracting strong, capable 
people in the teacliing profession, Des 
Moines, Iowa, has advanced a salary 
schedule of much interest. 

The plan provides for four classifications 
based upon training and experience. It also 
affords a definite annual increment for each 
classification. With an approved, full-time 
teaching experience of two years, the mini- 
mum salary paid to teachers in Class I is 
SI 200. The maximum in Class IV covering 
a period of ten years teaching experience 
with five years of preparation is S3000. 
Xot more than five years of full-time teaching 
experience commensurate with the Des 
Moines standard may be accepted on initial 



appointment. Some of the outstanding 
features are the recognition of professional 
study whereby, with each added year of 
study, one may raise his classification to 
his financial benefit, and equal salary for 
equal qualifications, irrespective of grade or 
school. 

All teachers of Home Economics interested 
in advancement should write for detailed 
information concerning the plan. 



The Ellen H. Richards Club of South- 
eastern High School, Detroit, has had a very 
busy season. The initial feature of an ex- 
tensive program was a mass meeting held 
in the school auditorium, in December, in 
honor of ^f rs. Richards' Birthday. All girls 
of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh grades were 
invited to attend. Talks by various mem- 
bers of the Club were followed by an address 
by Grace JIcAdam, Supervisor of Home 
Economics in the Detroit Public Schools, 
on the life of Mrs. Richards, and the benefits 
of home economics. This mass meeting 
aroused a great interest among the girls of 
the school, and many enrolled in the home 
science course for the following semester. 

A few weeks later the Ellen H. Richards 
Club, with the cooperation of all the clubs 
in the school, arranged to have Mrs. Emma 
A. Fox, Michigan parliamentarian, give a 
talk on Parliamentary Usage. Tea was 
served in the Ellen H. Richards dining room. 

The club is now organizing a Federation 
comprised of two members from each club 
in the school for the purpose of maintaining 
closer relationship and coordinating various 
activities for the good of the school. 

The Dietetic Association of Southeastern 
Michigan held a dinner on March 2 at the 
College Club, Detroit. Rena S. Eckman of 
the University Hospital, Ann Arbor, gave 
a paper on "The Responsibilities of the 
Dietitian." Miss Eckman emphasized par- 
ticularly the responsibility of the dietitian 
to her profession as well as to the institution 
with which she is associated. 

Recent publications and books were shown 
and discussed by Miss Wilson of Cass 
Technical High School. Detroit. 



252 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



The next meeting will be the annual 
election of officers. 



The Montana Home Economics Associa- 
tion held its secondannual meeting at Great 
Falls. The Montana association with a 
membership of sLxty-six was the second state 
organization to affiliate with the American 
Home Economics Association. The associa- 
tion pledged $100 toward the executive 
secretary fund. Blanche Lee, Assistant 
State Leader of Home Demonstration 
Agents, was elected Montana representative 
on the National Council. Gladys Brane- 
gan's term as president of the State Associa- 
tion continues for another year, and tlie 
membership goal for this year is one hundred. 

Mildred Weigley on her recent trip in the 
interests of the American Home Economics 
Association visited the Home Economics 
Departments at Montana University and 
Montana State College. She met a repre- 
sentative group of home economics workers 
and students in both places. 

Isabel Bevier was the chief speaker on 
the women's program of the State Farmers' 
and Homemakers' Conference held at the 
Montana State CoUege, tlie second week in 
January. 

NEW YORK 

The Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York held its ilarch meeting 
in conjunction with the New York Dieti- 
tians Association. The program, arranged 
by the institutional group, consisted of dis- 
cussions on various institutional subjects by 
Mary Lindsley, who presided, Mrs. Kath- 
arine Ogden, Margaret Proctor, and 
Mrs. Brj-an. 

Auburn Home Economics Teachers. A 
local group of home economics teachers have 
been meeting together twice a year for 
three years, either at Auburn or Syracuse 
and have invited all interested home eco- 
nomics workers from nearby towns. These 
meetings have been most helpful to the 
workers who are more or less isolated from 
others doing the same work. A chairman 



is appointed at each meeting who names a 
committee for the next. A ten cent tax is 
collected to defray expenses. 

The gatherings usually take the form of 
an experience meeting around a long table. 
February third the meeting was held in the 
Vocational High School, Syracuse. Our 
newly appointed State Supervisor, Emma 
Conley, gave an informal talk. Edith 
Barber, Home Bureau agent of Syracuse, told 
about the work being done by the Bureau 
in Syracuse. 

Clothing for Unemployed. During the 
past year, girls in the Washington Irving, 
Julia Richman, and Wadleigh High Schools, 
N. Y. City, have made 2600 articles of 
clothing for the children of unemployed 
ex-service men. The work has been done 
under the direction of the New York County 
Chapter of the Red Cross. 

A Course in Family Social Work for 
Teachers of Household Arts is offered by the 
School of Practical Arts of Teachers College, 
June 5 to 30, 1922 for selected women with 
training in household arts. Application for 
admission must be made to Miss Harriet 
Towsend, Teachers College, before May 5. 
AnnualAlumnl Reunion at Teachers Col- 
lege. The alumni of Teachers College held 
their annual reunion and conferences at the 
college February 10 and 11. The keynote 
of the meeting was "citizenship," and each 
section included m its programs a discussion 
of its work in citizen making. 

The Household Arts Section took for its 
first meeting the topic. Some Problems of the 
House\\ife. Under the chairmanship of 
Dr. Andrews the problems were discussed by 
May Van Arsdale, Dr. Hugh Hartshome, 
Mrs. Henr>' S. Patterson, and ten house- 
wives. It is hoped that by ha\'ing one special 
meeting for the housewives the married 
alumnae will return to give their experi- 
ences and to make suggestions as to how 
the college can be of help to them. 

The evening meeting under the chairman- 
ship of Anna M. Cooley had as its general 
topic, Recent Investigations in the Field of 
Household Arts. Dr. Minna C. Denton, of 
the Office of Home Economics U. S. Dept. 
of Agriculture reported current research 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



253 



throughout the country. Each department 
of the school of practical arts told of re- 
searches being conducted in Teachers Col- 
lege. Ruth Wihnot, formerly an instructor 
at the college and now cormected with a 
New York department store discussed the 
relation of art to daily life. Dr. M. R. 
Trabue outlined the development of educa- 
tional measurements. 

The topic for the final meeting, Home 
Economics and Citizenship, was discussed 
by Dr. Maurice A. Bigelow, Director of the 
School of Practical Arts Teachers College; 
Dr. Albert Shiels, Assistant Director of the 
Field Studies Division, Institute of Edu- 
cational Research, Teachers College; Philip 
W. L. Cox, Headmaster, The Washington 
School of New York; and Esther Jonas, 
Instructor in Home Economics, Junior High 
School, Washington, D. C. 

TEXAS 

The College of Industrial Arts , the State 
College for Women, at Denton, Te.xas, is 
offering special courses in home econimics 
during its s umm er quarter June 6 to August 
25. Margaret Gleason, B.S. University 
of Chicago, and M.A. University of Cali- 
fornia, is the director of the home economics 
department, which has a faculty of 22 and 
gives instruction to more than 1200 students 
annually. 

UTAH 

Home Economics Workers in Utah will 
not soon forget the delightful visit they had 
with Mildred Weigley in December. Miss 
Weigley addressed a meeting of the women 
of the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 
a group of teachers at the L.D.S. University 
in the same city, and the home economics 
faculty and student body at the College of 
Agriculture, Logan. 

Two distinct benefits attach to Miss 
Weigley's visit. First, the coming of this 
council member of the American Home 
Ecnomics Association gave that organization 
a personality and thus formed a vital be- 
ginning of the acquaintance of Utah students 
with their national professional organization. 
Second, Miss Weigley's comprehensive pre- 
sentation of the organization's character, 
its recognition by other organizations. 



opportunities for growth and service espe- 
cially through the proper emphasis upon 
home making as a profession and the enlist- 
ment of the interest and support of the home 
makers along with that of home economics 
workers in other fields, stimulated interest 
in the cause of the Association among the 
people of Utah. 

THE tTNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OP 
AGRICDXTDKE 

The Cooperative Extension Work 
in agriculture and home economics, formerly 
conducted through two extension offices, one 
for 15 Southern States and the other for 33 
Northern and Western States, is now under 
the direction of one office. For the coming 
year the county agent activities, home 
demonstration work, and club work with 
farm boys and girls will all be part of a 
unified program. 

Depressed economic conditions in the 
southern states lead the 861 white county 
agents and the 154 negro agents to give an 
unusual amount of ' time to marketing 
problems, assisting in the organization of 
2,031 cooperative associations for buying 
and selling. These agents reported 230,819 
field demonstrations with crops by adult 
farmers and boys on 2,274,534 acres. The 
home-demonstration workers employed in 
567 counties reported that, due to the work 
of 240,000 club girls and women, over 
14,000,000 pounds of meat products were 
cured, 228,500 cans of meat were conserved, 
and 14,500,000 quarts of vegetables and 
fruits were canned, besides a large quantity 
of jelly and other preserves, and dried and 
brined products. Poultry and eggs valued at 
$2,500,000 were produced, and over 3,000 
family cows were placed on farms. 

In the northern and western states home 
demonstration projects were conducted in 
17,399 communities, and over 1,330,000 
people were reached. The total enrollment 
in boys' and girls' club work was 216,479. 
The agricultural colleges offered 730 schol- 
arships and conducted short courses for 
3,383 boys and girls. Significant of the 
way in which club work stimulates a desire 
for more instruction is the fact that over 



254 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



1,800 former club members were enrolled 
during 1920 in the four-year courses in agri- 
culture or home economics at various agri- 
cultural colleges. 

The Office of Home Economics has 
increased its experimental work on food 
value and selection, meal planning, food 
requirements of children, cooking and can- 
ning processes, and relative efficiency of 
different fuels in food preparation. Some 
studies were also made on the selection, 
repair, and care of clothing and household 
equipment. 

The Experiment Stations in Alaska 
and the insular possessions have continued 
the work for diversification of agriculture in 
their respective territories. 



Inga M. K. Allison, Head of the Depart- 
ment of Home Economics, Colorado State 
.Agricultural College, has been appointed 
Acting Supervisor of Vocational Home 
Economics for the state. 

Mrs. Bessie W. Birdsall, formerly of 
Kansas State College, is Head of the Depart- 
ment of Clothing and Te.xtiles at the Connec- 
ticut Agricultural College. 

Marlon Butters, formerly .Assistant State 
Leader in New Hampshire, has been ap- 
pointed State Home Demonstration Leader, 
New Brunswick, New Jersey. 

Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin, Specialist 
in Home Economics, Bureau of Education, 
has been conducting a series of conferences 
for home economics city supervisors and 
teachers in Spokane, Portland, San Francisco, 
Los Angeles, and Salt Lake City. Others 
will be held in Denver May 5 and 6, and 
Kansas City, Mo., May 12 and 13. 

Esther Deutch (1921 Iowa State College) 
has been appointed assistant manager of the 
new cafeteria in tlie Hotel Statler in Cleve- 
land. 

Jean MacKinnon has accepted a position 
as Head of the Department of Foods and 
Cookery at the Connecticut .Vgricultural 
College. 

Ella Rose, formerly Head of the Foods and 
Cookery Department at the Connecticut 



Agricultural College, has been made super- 
visor of Smith-Hughes teacher training work 
and instructor in Smith-Hughes methods in 
teacher-training at the College. 

Miss Roudelbush, Director of the Depart- 
ment of Home Economics, State Teachers 
College, Greeley, Colorado, has been elected 
President of the Home Economics Section 
of the State Teachers Association. 

Anna Williams, formerly of theUniversity 
of Illinois, is now in charge of the Home 
Economics work at Colorado State 
University. 

FOREIGN 

The American Women's Hospitals, or- 
ganized by the Medical Women's National 
Association in the early part of the war, 
have done remarkable work in the war 
striken countries as indicated in the following 
summary: 

France. Three hospital centers, with 
dispensaries, out-patient dental service 
conducted in the war zone prior and sub- 
sequent to the Armistice. Over 22,000 sick 
people cared for; between 800 and 900 
surgical operations performed; helped es- 
tablish permanent maternity hospital at 
Blois and permanent dispensary at Levallois- 
Perret. 

Serbia. Five hospital centers conducted 
in Serbia during the last two years. Train- 
ing classes for Serbian nurses maintained; 
over 90,000 consultations recorded; a large 
number of surgical operations performed; eye 
clinics conducted; over four hundred neg- 
lected cases of cataract operated upon and 
sight restored to people who had been blind 
for years. 

Asia Minor. All hospital, dispensary, 
medical, and surgical work in the Derindje, 
Bardizag, and Ismid regions for the past 
year — general hospital, children's hospital, 
trachoma hospital, small-pox and tubercu- 
losis camps with training classes for native 
nurses. This district was the recent battle- 
field of the Greeks and the Kemalists. 

Russian Caucasus. Children's hospital, 
general hospital, trachoma hospital, and a 
hospital for skin diseases, all overcrowded. 



Vol. XIV, No. 6 June, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Maey de Gasho Bryan, Editor Ketusah E. Baldwin, Business Editof 

Edilorial Board 
Mrs Ma&y H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Asty Daniels Katharine Fishes Grace G. Dunrx 

Editor of "The Question Box," Amy Daitiels 
Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, Ncwg 

Edith Barber and Mildred Weicley, Social Welfare and the Home 
Florence Ward. Extension 

Katharine BtuNT and Sybil Woodruff. Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell and Euua Conley, Education 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Mabel Little, Institution Economici 
AucE Biester, Bibliography 

Collaborators— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Present Status of Home Economics Education Florence Williams 255 

The Great Need for Information on Racial Dietary Customs Lucy H. Gillclt 258 

Effect of Bleaching On Tensile Strength of Cotton Fabrics 

Rttlh O'Brien and Mary Louise Price 262 
The Value of Whale Meat as Human Food . . . .Agnes Fay Morgan and Edilh L. Broivn 267 

Weights of One Cupful of Food Materials Syhil Woodrujf 270 

Suggestions for a Home Economics Research Problem in Household Physics .... 273 
For the Homemaker 

Market Preferences Caroline S. Sherman 275 

Household Brushes Rulh Van Demon 278 

Meat Prices and the Housewife Day Monroe 281 

Editorial 283 

The Open Forum 285 

The Question Bo.k 288 

Books and Liter.ature 289 

News from the Fieid 295 

Fifteenth Annual Meeting, A. H. E. .^ 295 



The JOCTiN/o, op Home Eccmoiacs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
J2.5C A YEAR FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft. Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Ordei, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Joobnal ot Hoira EcoNOmcs is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boatoo: 
A. C. McClurg & Co.. Chicago; Hocbschild. Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lotbrop, Waahinxton. 



JOURNAL OF'BOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 



© 






The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 

ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 



m 









/^^^ 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV JUNE, 1922 No. 6 

THE PRESENT STATUS OF HOME ECONOMICS 
EDUCATION 

FLORENCE WILLLA.MS 
Supervisor of Fine and Industrial Arts, Richmond, Indiana 

In the recent progress of home economics education there have been 
two general lines of development which are worthy of attention: first, 
the scientific measurement of results; second, a noticeable tendency to 
reorganize the home economics course of study from a wholly educational 
point of view. 

The movement for the scientific measurement of results in education 
has become an estabhshed and recognized thing. Discussions of the 
value and need of scientific measurement have been many in educational 
writings. Scientific measurement has been appUed to many subjects and 
more recently to the "special" subjects. Until two years ago there was 
no attempt to apply scientific measurement to home economics. Since 
that time, two accounts of attempts at quantitative measurement in 
clothing and textiles have been published. In 1919, Dr. Katherine 
Murdoch published the results of an investigation in hand sewing, 
"The Measurement of Certain Elements in Hand Sewing." This in- 
cludes a scale for measuring six stitches: hemming, basting, running, 
backstitch, overcasting, and combination stitch. There were 854 sam- 
plers used in the construction of the scale. Fifteen different quaUties 
were determined by careful mathematical calculation. Numerical values 
were determined mathematically for each of these fifteen qualities. This 
piece of work marks a definite step toward tne measurement of results 
in the teaching of sewing. 

In 1920, a report of certain investigations carried on by the Home 
Economics Department at the University of Chicago were pubUshed 
in a monograph, "Home Economics in American Schools." This in- 
cludes a scale for the measurement of abiUty in machine sewing. The 
scale consists of photographic reproductions of samples of machine- 
made hems and French seams. The scale is analytic in character. 
Five factors which contribute to a well-made hem or a French seam are 

255 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

considered separately: tension, length of stitch, neatness, spacing, and 
constructive elements. Three quahties for each of these five factors 
are shown in the scale, and each quality has a numerical value. It is 
assumed that the average score for the five factors is the score for general 
merit. This report also includes a table showing each possible score 
translated into school marks. 

Other work in the scientific measurement of results in home economics 
education is being carried on at the present time. A scale for judging 
buttonholes is being worked out by the Bureau of Educational Measure- 
ments and Hazel K. Stiebling, Department of Home Economics, Kansas 
State Normal School. Accompanying the scale, there will be a diag- 
nostic chart. This consists of a group of nine buttonholes, each of which 
is satisfactory, except for the conspicuous lack of one element necessary 
to a good buttonhole. By comparing a buttonhole with the chart, 
a pupil can readily see where to give attention in order to improve her 
workmanship.' 

Rosamond C. Cook, Iowa State College, is making a similar investi- 
gation, the purpose of which is, in part, to make a scale for ability in 
using one sewing machine attachment, the tucker. 

It will be noted that these are attempts to measure skills required in 
clothing construction. It is simpler to measure skill in hand and machine 
sewing than in the other abilities involved in home economics education. 
Skill may be measured more accurately than the asquisition of informa- 
tion, appreciations, or problem-solving abilities because of the objective 
results obtained. Certain skills are required in cooking as well as in 
sewing. Unfortunately from the nature of the result, it is impossible to 
construct a scale to judge cooking. Very obviously it would not be 
practical to construct a permanent scale of food stuffs. However, in 
time, some scheme may be devised by which skill in cooking can be 
measured. 

The investigation described in "Home Economics in American 
Schools" includes an attempt to measure the acquisition of information 
in textiles and clothing construction and reasoning abiUty in textiles, 
dress design, sewing, and house planning. The work was in a prelimin- 
ary stage, but the report shows the possibihty of developing other tests, 
and such tests ■will undoubtedly be designed. 

The second noticeable change in home economics education is the 
tendency to reorganize the course of study from the educational point 

' Both the chart and scale will be available shortly from the Bureau of Educational 
Measurements, Kansas State Normal School, Emporia, Kansas. 



1922] STATUS OF HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION 257 

of view. This is by no means a new movement, but within the past 
year it has received fresh attention. Indications of this new interest in 
the course of study are found in the writings of home economics workers 
and in the addresses given at professional gatherings. 

At the meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Feb- 
ruary, 1921, Mrs. Calvin emphasized the fact that we must make home 
economics teaching function in the life of the girl to show her how to 
control her environment. Mrs. Allan, a high school principal, said: 
"Our girls do not need advanced cooking and sewing but they need great 

emphasis on the social side of the home, on appearance 

The economics of buying appeals to girls. They all buy clothes, rugs, 
china, and pictures, and know nothing about any of them. Why do 
we leave them to buy at the mercy of fashion?" The following questions 
were subjects for round table discussion at the Indiana Home Economics 
Association meeting. "Is it possible to find a body of subject matter 
which will be equally useful to all types of a high school group? Is the 
first year the best place in the curriculum for a required course? 
What is necessary to give the girls the type of training which they will 
require for their own immediate needs?" These and other questions 
and statements, made by educational administrators and home economics 
leaders, indicate the tendency to investigate the content of the home econ- 
omics course. 

Other indications of the tendency to reorganize the content of the 
home economics course are the changes in many elementary school 
cooking courses of study. Formerly, the emphasis was upon skill in 
cooking and upon the acquiring of information. The present tendency 
is to emphasize the relation of food to health. The Elementary School 
Journal, Nov., 1921, published an article "Methods of Health Instruc- 
tion in the Second and Third Grades," by Carolyn Hoefer. The article 
discusses the health principles to be taught and recommendations for 
teaching health principles and measuring the results. Many health 
habits are discussed, but the importance of proper food is emphasized. 
Bailey B. Burritt, in "The Place of the Nutrition Worker in the Health 
Program," Journal of Home Economics, December, 1921, says: "We 
have made much progress, it is true, in the use which we have made of 
our elementary schools in the nutritional educational problem. A 
larger percentage of the children graduating from our schools each year 
are knowing at least something about the elements of food problems — 
What to eat, how to eat, how to prepare it." "The nutritional factor 
is a large and essential factor in the public health program. It has not 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

yet received the recognition, however, in practice, which its importance 
suggests. Its chief obstacle to overcome is ignorance and its function is, 
therefore, largely educational. The school, including the elementary 
school, the secondary school, the college, and the university, is or can be 
the most important instrument for overcoming universal ignorance." 

In the Elementary School Journal, October 1921, Maud A. Brown 
described the health program in Kansas City Schools. The plan was 
devised and carried on by the Physical Education Department, yet in 
part, at least, the work can be classed as home economics education. 
"The informal discussion of the weight findings and the friendly coopera- 
tive search for the causes of underweight turned every class into a 
nutrition class." 

In conclusion, first, it is e\ddent that the movement for the scientific 
measurement of results in home economics education is estabUshed. 
Attempts at the construction of standardized scales and tests have 
been published and are being carried on at present. Secondly, home 
economics workers are critically scrutinizing the content of the home 
economics course of study. Changes in emphasis of instruction are ap- 
parent. Such topics as the economics of buying and nutrition are 
receiving more attention in many schools. 



THE GREAT NEED FOR INFORMATION ON R.\CL\L 
DIETARY CUSTOMS 

LUCY H. GILLETT 

Chairman, Social Ser'dce Section, American Dieleiic Association 

In psychology the student learns that she must approach her subject 
from the known to the unknown. But when a nutrition worker comes 
face to face with an Armenian, a Syrian, a Polish, a Lithuanian, an 
Italian, or a Jewish family, she reaHzes, perhaps for the first time, that 
she does not always know what " the known" is. On the other hand the 
foreign born woman who has seen a race survive on "the known" does 
not see why she should change the customs of centuries to suit the 
whim of a youthful person who does not know what her perfectly good 
food habits are. The woman is right and the young worker is "up 



1922] INFORMATION ON RACIAL DIETARY CUSTOMS 259 

against it," so to speak. There is little in the literature about the 
food habits of various people, very Httle has been given her in any of 
her college courses concerning the adequacy or deficiencies of food value 
of these various diets, and there seems to be nobody to whom she can 
turn for assistance. 

Each person going into social work has had to learn through experi- 
ence but it is unfortunate that very little of this experience has been 
passed on to benefit those coming after. The chief difficulty is that 
worth while material takes time. Such material is valuable if written 
up as facts by those who have worked with certain races for a long time 
or by one who has made a very careful study of the food value of the diet. 
Mae Allison left a very brave beginning of a study of food value of racial 
diets, a report of which was prepared by Velma PhiUips and Laura 
Howell.' This piece of workhas set a high standard for those who want 
to contribute more to the literature on the subject. While the Social 
Work Committee of the A. D. A. felt the need of more information on 
racial diets and while they would like to follow Miss Allison's lead, they 
realized that already busy workers would not have time for such a 
careful study. They did persuade several people, however, to contribute 
from their experiences. 

Four papers on five different racial groups were presented at the 
October (1921) meeting of the Association: Mrs. Mary Schapiro, 
formerly of the United Hebrew Charities in New York City, Jewish 
Diets; Reba Reed of the Association for Improving the Condition of 
the Poor, New York City, Italian Dietary Customs; Mildred Newell, 
Brockton Red Cross, Lithuanian Diet; Fairfax Proudfit, Memphis, 
Term., Mountain White and Negro Dietary Habits. 

The food value of diets was not worked out because of lack of time. 
The aim throughout was to study the common customs from the stand- 
point of good points or deficiencies especially with regard to the nutrition 
of children. The good points have been emphasized so that a new worker 
may have "a known" from which to work, and the undesirable points 
have been stated so that she may know what to advise against. The 
type of family studied has been the one in which economy is a big factor. 
It is very important to know what the family will sacrifice first when they 
have to economize. These papers are summarized on page 261 . 

Such a summary cannot give a clear picture of all the variations in 
any diet. The diet will, of course, vary decidedly with the financial 

' Racial and Other Differences in Dietary Customs, Jour. Home Econ., September, 1920. 



260 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS IJunC 

condition of the family. With most nationalities, when no financial 
limitations exist, the diet is likely to contain too much protein and to 
be too rich and hearty and too highly seasoned. Those who have to 
economize usually sacrifice on milk, fruit, and vegetables. To them 
these foods are luxuries or non-essentials. The Jewish people will almost 
always sacrifice quantity for freshness, preferring to buy 1 pound of fish 
just from the water at 40 cents a pound rather than pay 40 cents for two 
pounds a few hours later. An Itahan prefers one fourth of a pound of 
Italian cheese to one pound of American cheese for the same expenditure 
of money. 

When the stranger from another country arrives, he has to make 
many adjustments and if he does not know our foods and cannot get the 
foods to which he has been accustomed, he often acquires abnormal 
tastes. The diet of the Italian in his own country is very well balanced. 
A taste for meat and sweets is acquired in this country. They have 
milk, cheese, fruit, and vegetables in abundance in Italy but these 
foods seem expensive here and milk is omitted and cheese and greens 
used for flavoring to a large extent. 

When the dietary laws^ of the Jewish people are not interfered with 
their diet is more or less international, varying with the habits and pro- 
duce of the country from which they come. 

As we study the habits of the various races, we are impressed with the 
importance of attention to the diet of the pre-school child. We find the 
Italian baby eating bread soaked in coffee as soon as he can chew solid 
food, and the negro baby, too young to sit up without being propped 
with a pillow, clutching a piece of cornbread in one hand and a piece of 
fat meat in the other, while on its face linger evidences of molasses. 
When we see such customs as these, there is small wonder at the large 
number of school children who are undernourished. We wonder that 
they live to be in school at all and we feel more and more con\inced 
that the teaching of nutrition should be begun for the child before he is 
of school age. For the time being, social agencies cannot escape their 
responsibiHty in the question of the nutrition of the children. 

' Previously given by Mrs. Schapiro before tiie A. D. A. at Cincinnati in 1919. See also 
Jour. Home Econ., February, 1919. 



1922] 



INFORMATION ON RACIAL DIETARY CUSTOMS 



261 





ITALIAN 


JEWISH 


LITHUANIAN 


NEGRO 


Striking charac- 


Little meat 


Moderate amount of fresh 


Chief foods: 


Chief foods: 


teristics (both 


Large amount 


meat and fresh water fish. 


Smoked or salt- 


Pork 


desirable and 


cheese and beans 


Large amount of smoked, 


ed meat or fish 


Combread 


undesirable) 




salted, spiced beef, tongue. 


(often 4 lbs. a 


(often 3 times 




Goat's milk in 


or fish 


day) 


a day) 




their own coun- 


Moderate amount of milk. 


Sour milk, but- 


Molasses 




try — slow to use 


cheese, and eggs 


termilk 


Cabbage and tur- 




cow's milk here 


Large quantity of legumes, 


Sour salts in 


nip greens 




Generous quantity 


potatoes, carrots, and 


soup and 


Lard or bacon 




of leafy vegeta- 


onions. Sorrel, beets, or 


pickles 


drippings 




bles, except 


beet greens in soup. Very 


Beets, toma- 


Potatoes — sweet 




when extreme 


few other green or 


toes, onions 


and white (al- 




economy is a 


fresh vegetables. Dried 


(fried), pota- 


ways fried) 




factor 


mushrooms 


toes 


Buttermilk in 




Few root vegeta- 


Dried fruit, conserves, and 


Few green veg- 


soda biscuits 




bles or potatoes 


preserves used freely. 


etables or 


Butter substi- 




Fruit if can be 


Fresh fruit between meals. 


cereals 


tutes 




afforded 


White or rye bread and rolls. 


Considerable 


Little milk 




Oil— often a gallon 


Coarse cereals in soup. 


fruit 


Melons 




a month 


Sour salts in soup 


Moderate 






Much bread and 




amount of 






macaroni — often 


Sour cream and sweet butter. 


fat and 






4-8 lbs. bread, 


Very little fried food. Foods 


sugar 






and 1 lb. maca- 


generally over-seasoned, 


Rye bread 






roni daily 


over rich, over sharp, or 








Strong prejudice 


over concentrated 








against oatmeal 










and American 










cheese or oil 










Much fried food 










Taste for sweets 










acquired here 








Probable defi- 


Calcium and vita- 


Iron and vitamines. In cases 


Iron and vita- 


Calcium and vita- 


ciencies 


mines 


of financial pressure also 
calcium 


mines 


mines 


One common 


Beans, macaroni. 


Gedemphe fleisch (pot roast 


Beef and pork, 


Cush— left over 


dish 


tomato sauce, 


made of brisket). Meat 


chopped fine, 


cor nbread (soaked 




and oil 


soaked according to dietary 


enclosed in a 


in water in which 






laws. Cooked with onions 


ball of dough 1 


greens were cook- 






and seasoning in very small 


inch thick and 


ed) fried with 






amount of water (in iron 


boiled in salted 


onions in pork 






pot) for about 3 hours. 


water or soup 


fat 






Potatoes added one hour 


15 minutes 








before time to serve 






Typical meals: 










Breakfast 


White bread and 


White bread or rolls, sweet 


Rye bread and 


Only two meals a 




coffee 


butter, eggs or herring, po- 
tatoes, coffee. Milk for 
babies 


coffee 


day, and these 
whenever spirit 
moves 


Midday meal 


Bread, fried pep- 


Smoked salmon, rye bread 


Soup, meat, pota- 


Fried port, rice, 




pers, eggs, ham, 


and butter, tea. (From 


toes, sauerkraut 


soda biscuit, cof- 




or potatoes 


the delicatessens) 


(or other sour 
food), rye bread, 
coffee or tea 


fee 


Evening meal 


Macaroni, beans, 


Barley and mushroom soup, 


Meat, bread, to- 


Greens, salt meat, 




tomato sauce, 


Gedemphe fleisch and pota- 


matoes (perhaps 


combread, sweet 




oil 


toes, pickles or grated 


cake, canned 


potatoes, butter- 






horse-radish, rye bread. 


fruit), tea 


milk 






tea. Compote of dried 










fruit, sometimes cake made 










without butter or milk 







262 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

EFFECT OF BLEACHING ON TENSILE STRENGTH OF COTTON 
FABRICS' 

RUTH O'BRIEN AND MARY LOUISE PRICE 
Department of Chemistry, Iowa State College 

No record of the origin of bleaching exists, but the process has gradually- 
developed until we have the modern bleaching methods which are a result of 
many empirical experiments with lime, soda, potash, bleaching powders and 
acids, and oxidizing agents of various strengths. 

Our present process for the application of bleaching powder dates from about 
1840, and is known as the American process. It consists in boiling in large 
kiers with or without pressure in a series of alkahne solutions, (1) bleaching 
powder solutions, and weak acids. 

Perborate is a bleaching agent that has come into recent use as a bleach 
and also as a spot remover. It has been developed in an attempt to secure a 
per-salt which could satisfactorily be used as a source of oxygen in bleaching. 
Many compounds have been prepared with this object in view, among the most 
successful being the per-salts formed by the alkaline earth metals, especially 
sodium perborate. 

In many instances it will be noted that the strengths of the sours, alkali, and 
chemic as published are stated in terms of specific gravity but, since bleaching 
powders differ in the amount of available chlorine, and the same sample shows 
deterioration on standing, density is no criterion of strength. Since the oxi- 
dizing action of bleaching solutions is directly proportionate to the available 
chlorine, this, rather than the specific gravity, should be our standard for 
strength of bleaching solutions. Titration methods are being used in many 
mills today to determine this strength, arsenious acid or sodium thiosulfate be- 
ing used to measure the available oxidizing agent. 

Directions for the use of bleaching solutions of a definite chJorometric 
strength were published in 1901 by the French chemical engineer L. Tailfer (2). 
This author expresses the strength of bleaching solutions in terms of chloro- 
metric degrees, which means the liters of active chlorine contained in a liter of 
chemic. The chlorometric degree of chloride of lime varies between 100 and 1 10. 
This means that one kilogram of chloride of lime can decolorize or bleach to 
the same extent as 100 to 1 10 liters of active chlorine under standard conditions. 

Chlorine exists in two different states in bleaching powder. One part is in 
a state of combination which renders it as effective for bleaching purposes as 
gaseous clilorine dissolved in water. This is the active or available chlorine 
and comes from the hypochlorite of sodium or calcium. We also have chlorine 
which is combined with the sodium or calcium as a chloride, from which there 

' See Recent Developments in Scouring and Bleaching of Cotton by Lillian B. Storms in 
the May issue of the Journal. 



1922] EFFECT OF BLEACHING OF COTTON FABRICS 263 

is no available chlorine. The formula CaOCla is used by some authors, and 
otiers prefer that of a molecular complex of calcium chloride and calcium 
hypochlorite, CaCl2-Ca(OCl)2. 

It is quite possible that oxidation is not produced by chlorine alone, for the 
oxygen of the hypochlorite may oxidize directly. By the term chlorometric 
degree we therefore represent an oxidizing effect which would be equivalent 
to that produced by a liter of active chlorine. We are speaking in terms of the 
effective strength of the solution, which is in no sense true when we speak in 
terms of specific gravity. 

Perborates, although very effective as bleaching agents and spot removers, 
have not replaced bleaching powder because of their cost. Little is said of 
their preparation or methods of application in the literature. 

When solutions of sodium peroxide and boric acid are combined at a low 
temperature the resultant compound is perborax (3) a substance of the formula 
Na2B408 • IOH2O. Perborax is soluble in water to the extent of 42 grams per 
liter at 10°C. When half of its sodium is replaced by mineral acid a crystalline 
precipitate of sodium perborate NaBOs -41120 separates. This rather stable 
compound dissolves with slight decomposition at 60° and evolves oxygen 
\'igorously at 100°. 

The simplest method of perborax bleaching is to boil in an open kier with 
about a one per cent solution of NaBOs -41120. In such a process the rate of 
evolution of oxygen is difficult to control; and so various modifications have 
been made, both in the method of application and in the compound itself. 

R. Starek (4) has patented a method of application which decreases the 
amount of perborate necessary. Heretofore bleaching with perborate has been 
more costly than with chloride of lime because, by heating, too great a per cent 
of oxygen was lost. By this method the material is alternately washed in 
perborate solution and steamed. The oxygen is not lost, as the bleaching 
solution is not boOed, and the oxygen is freed on the fiber where it exerts an 
intensive action. 

The evolution of oxygen in the bleaching solution may be regulated by the 
formation of a salt of the alkaline earth metals which retards the evolution of 
oxygen. F. S. Schmidt (5) has patented such a compound which is prepared 
by mixing the sodium perborate with from two to ten per cent of a molecular 
proportion of magnesium, strontium, or calcium salt to retard the decomposi- 
tion of the perborate on boiling. 

O. Liebnecht (6) has patented a stable compound to which he gives the 
formula Na20 • MgO • B2O3 • CO2 - O2 • QHoO, which may be obtained by adding 64 
parts of Na202 to 900 parts of H2O, keeping the solution cool to avoid excessive 
loss of oxygen, then adding 80 parts of borax and 84 parts of MgCl2 and treat- 
ing with CO2 tiU the liquid decolorizes only ten to twenty per cent of its volume 
of acidified normal KMn04. The white solid which settles out is a very ef- 
fective bleach. 



264 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



Bleaching, however accomplished, is an action of oxidation on cotton cellu- 
lose itself or on its impurities. Cotton cellulose is a colloid (7) whose constitu- 
tional formula is, at present, unknown. Hibbert (8) believes that experi- 
mental data would indicate that cellulose is an anhydride of dextrose formed 
by the removal of the aldol oxygen with the hydrogen from the delta and from 
the gamma carbon, but until we know definitely the physical and chemical 
nature of the fiber the action of the bleach will be uncertain. 

A successfully bleached fabric must not only be white but must not be 
appreciably weakened. Bleaching according to most authorities exerts a 
weakening effect due to the formation of oxycellulose by the chlorine and oxy- 
gen, and hydrocellulose by the acid. Bradford Technical College (9) has 
shown that the processes of scouring, crabbing, and permanent finishing are 
responsible for an appreciable loss in tensile strength. 

O'Neil, according to Hiibner (1), claims that bleaching, if properly done, 
increases tensOe strength. Work done by Moore, of the Manchester School 
of Technology (10), on cotton yarns gave the following results: 



SAMPLE 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH IN CRAMS 
OF CHLORINE PER LITER 


TENSILE STRENGTH 


A 


15.5 


10.97 


B 


10.2 


11.77 


C 


7.65 


12.50 


D 


3.83 


12.50 


E 


2.55 


14.47 


F 


1.53 


12.82 


G 




13.61 



He regarded (E) as an abnormal value, even though it was checked by 
further experiment, and attributed it to some difiference in the fiber although 
every effort had been made to secure uniform samples. Later work at the 
same Institute (11) indicates that they feel this rise is characteristic of the 
efifect of bleaching on yams, even though it is contrary to popular opinion. 

The change in tensile strength is doubtless due to the formation of oxycellu- 
lose. Moore (10) found that the relative amount of oxycellulose could be 
measured by the amount of methylene blue absorbed by the fiber, for oxycellu- 
lose has a greater affinity for this dye than the unoxidized fiber. He finds the 
amount of oxycellulose indicated by this test to be directly proportional to 
the amount of bleach used. 

R. Starek (12) states "Most of the customary bleaches attack strength. 
Perborate, however, does not. It also possesses a remarkable antiseptic action 
which renders it particularly valuable for bleaching absorbent cotton." 

In view of the fact that there e.xists this difference of opinion concerning 
the effect of bleaching itself, and of various bleaching agents on the tensile 
strength of cotton yarn, and because there seemingly was no data concerning 



1922] EFFECT OF BLEACHING OF COTTON FABRICS 265 

the effect of strength of bleach on woven fabrics, an investigation was made to 
determine the effect of various strengths of calcium hypochlorite, sodium 
hypochlorite, and sodium perborate on tensile strength of cotton fabrics. 

EXPERIMENTAL 

Two samples of unbleached muslin were used. Sample A was thirty-six inches wide with 
sixty-four ends per inch, sixty-six picks per inch, thirty-one and five-tenths pounds warp 
tensile strength, twenty-eight pounds weft tensile strength. Sample B was thirty-six inches 
wide, with fifty ends per inch, fifty-four picks per inch, twenty-four pounds warp tensile 
strength, twenty-one pounds weft tensile strength. Such grey or unbleached muslin is 
inspected, brushed and run on a calender rolling machine which gives the slightly ironed 
effect without the finishing effect. It is not starched. 

Samples were cut and breaking strengths taken according to the specifications for the 
strip method given in Bulletin 41 of the Bureau of Standards, which directs that strips be 
cut one and one-fourth inches wide and raveled to one inch. Breaking strength was taken 
with the jaws of the tensile strength machine set three inches apart. The machine used 
recorded breaking strengths at half pound intervals; therefore, the readings are accurate 
only within the half pound. 

In each run twenty-four samples were exposed to the bleach, rinsed four times with dis- 
tilled water, and then conditioned at 100° for two hours and the tensile strength taken. 
The other twelve were exposed to sunlight for three months and then were conditioned and 
the tensile strength taken. When strips tore at the jaws of the machine, readings were 
disregarded, the tensile strength recorded in the tables being the average of those breaking 
normally. 

The bleaching agents employed were calcium hypochlorite, sodium hypochlorite, and 
soditmi perborate. Corrmiercial calcium hypochlorite was used. Sodium hypochlorite was 
prepared by treating bleaching powder with an equivalent of sodium hydroxide and decanting 
the clear liquid. 

Sodium perborate was made from directions given in a number of literature references and 
patent specifications. By the combination of one hundred parts of H3 BO3, one hundred 
twenty to one hundred forty parts of cracked ice, and forty parts of Naj O2, a compound 
probably NajBjOg-PHjO was prepared. An attempt to convert this substance into perborate, 
NaBOs^HaO, by the replacement of half of the sodium by a mineral acid proved relatively 
unsuccessful, the yield being low and the bleaching action poor. 

By the addition of NaaOs and H3BO] to a dilute HjSOj solution containing enough acid to 
replace half of the sodium, a compound, possibly NaBOa -41120, was obtained which was not 
particularly effective as a bleaching agent. Thinking this might be due to the difficulty in 
controlling the evolution of oxygen an attempt was made to prepare a compound with the 
alkaline earth salts, since these compounds are supposed to yield oxygen more slowly. 

According to the Liebnecht U. S. patent 1,200,739 sixty-four parts of Na^Oa, nine hundred 
parts of water, eighty of borax and eighty-four of MgClj were combined at a low temperature; 
COj was then run in till the liquid decolorized fifteen per cent of its volume of acidified normal 
KMnOi. A white crystalline sold, to which the formula NajO • MgO • B2O3 • CO2 • Os • 9H2O was 
assigned, was obtained. This substance evolved oxygen rather slowly and regularly on 
boiling, and bleached remarkably well. This product was used in the experimental runs. 

The strength of the bleaching powder solution was determined by titration with arsenious 
acid according to the method of Gay Lussac. 

Arsenious acid 0.1 1389 normal was used. Such a solution contains 22.55 grams of AsjOj 
per liter and is equivalent to a bleach of 5.1 chlorometric degrees. 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

Since the arsenious acid if added to the bleaching solution might free chlorine more rapidly 
than it could be oxidized by it, thus allowing some of the chlorine to escape unmeasured, a 
definite volume of arsenious acid (ten cubic centimeters) was used and the calcium or sodium 
hypochlorite solution was added until the indicator, indigo carmine, was decolorized. An 
oxidizing agent on this indicator causes it to change from blue through green to yellow. When 
completely oxidized it is almost colorless. This color change is a sharp one and is satisfactory 
for titration purposes. 

Samples were exposed to the bleach for three hours at room temperature. Titrations were 
made at the beginning and end of this period and the strength of the bleach, in terms of chloro- 
metric degrees, calculated from the titrations. 

In the titration of the perborate solution a definite volume of the oxidizing solution was 
run into an excess of potassium iodide. The iodine thus freed was titrated with sodium 
thiosulphate. 

Thiosulphate 0.1006 normality was used. Such a solution contains 67.11 grams per liter 
and would be equivalent to a bleach containing 2.83 liters of gaseous oxygen per liter of 
solution. It therefore possesses an oximetric strength of 2.83 degrees, since a solution con- 
taining the equivalent of one liter of gaseous oxygen per liter of solution has the strength of 
one oximetric degree. 

Samples were boiled in the perborate bleach for thirty minutes and titrations were run at 
the beginning and end of this period. 

The samples bleached with calcium and sodium hypochlorite were noriceably bleached in 
solutions of initial chlorometric strength of 0.2 degrees; and at initial strengths of 1.5 degrees 
and above they were entirely bleached. 

The samples bleached with sodium hypochlorite were softer than those on which bleaching 
powder was used. This was probably due to the fact that the sodium compounds were 
soluble and would, therefore, be more thoroughly removed by rinsing. 

The perborate is a very satisfactory bleach. AU samples showed some bleaching and 
above 0.2 oximetric degrees initial strength the bleaching was complete. The fabric was a 
clear white and free from any harshness. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

(1) Hubner, Bleaching and Dyeing Processes. Constable & Co., London. 

(2) Tailfer, Bleaching of Linen and Cotton. Scott, Greenwood & Co., London. 

(3) Thorpe, Chemical Dictionary, Perborates. 

(4) Starek, German Pat. 289, 734, June, 1917. 

(5) Schmidt, F. S., U. S. Pat. 1,155,101. 

(6) Liebnecht, O., U. S. Pat. 1,200,759. 

(7) Hebden, Jour. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1914, p. 714. 

(8) Hibbert, Structure of CeUulose, Jour. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1921, p. 256 and 334. 

(9) Bradford Technical College, Finishing and Tensile Strength, Textile World Jour., 

Feb. 22, 1919, p. 37 

(10) Moore, Manchester School of Technology, Action of some Oxidizing Agents on Cellu- 

lose. Society Dyers and Colorists, Vol. 31, 1915, p. 180. 

(11) Greenfield, Effect of Processes on Tensile Strength, Textile World Jour., January, \, 

1921, p. 31. 

(12) Starek, Chemical .\bstracts, 1913, p. 3419. Chem. Listy, 7, 65-9. 

(Continued in the next issue) 



1922] VALUE OF WHALE MEAT AS HUMAN FOOD 267 

THE VALUE OF WHALE MEAT AS HUMAN FOOD 

AGNES FAY MORGAN AND EDITH L. BROWN 

From the Laboratory of Household Science, University of California, Berkeley 

For many years the flesh of whales has been used as food in Japan and the 
South Sea Islands, and in many parts of Japan it furnishes the only meat 
available to the poorer classes. In Iceland, the Faroes, and parts of Norway 
and Sweden, it is reported that whale meat has been used extensively for at 
least a generation. 

Although whaling was at one time an important industry off the coasts 
of America, and has survived in some degree up to the present time, the use 
of whale meat as human food was only recently suggested, and this under the 
stimulus of the war emergency. The whale is pursued chiefly for the baleen 
or whale bone and for the oil extracted from the blubber stripped from the 
carcass or rendered by steam from the flesh. The residual flesh when not 
entirely wasted is usually ground into whale meal and used for fertilizer, 
less often for cattle and poultry food. 

A fairly large number of whales exist, all of them cosmopolitan in habitat. 
They are usually divided into two groups, the whalebone and toothed whales. 
Of the whalebone or baleen whales, the chief varieties are the humpback, sei, 
blue or sulphur bottom, finback, bowhead, right, and California gray; of the 
toothed whales, the most important are the sperm, killer, or grampus, the 
dolphins and porpoises. For the most part only the flesh of the whalebone 
whales is considered suitable for human food. The flesh of the sperm whales 
is impregnated by the strong flavor and odor characteristic of the sperm oil, 
and is rarely eaten even by whalers. 

The whales most sought after on the Pacific coast are the right and bow- 
head. Large quantities of the flesh of these two whales are sometimes brought 
into Pacific coast ports, chiefly Seattle and San Francisco, as frozen meat. 
However, the flesh of the humpback, sei, of thirty to fifty tons weight, with 
that of the finback is that most often offered in the markets for human con- 
sumption. The sulphur bottom and bowhead, which are the largest animals 
in existence, averaging sixty-five to eighty-five feet in length and seventy 
tons in total weight, furnish thirty to forty tons of a coarser meat. Although 
this meat has not been used in America it has been canned at Pacific coast 
whaling stations and shipped to other parts of the world. 

Of the seven whaling stations operating on the Pacific coast only three have 
attempted to save the whale meat for human food. So far one cold storage 
plant at Bay City, Washington, two canning plants in Canada, and one can- 
nery on the California coast have been in operation. If all of the Pacific 
whaling stations were fitted to produce whale meat, a total of twenty million 



268 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [junC 

pounds of meat could be made available. In the winter of 1917 and 1918 
a considerable quantity of the meat was used in the large cities of the Pacific 
coast. 

Ray C. Andrews,' of the New York Museum of Natural History, who is 
well acquainted with the whale population of the world, has recently stated 
that one fifty-foot whale can be made to yield fifteen tons of excellent lean 
meat, a quantity equal to fifty-one dressed beeves of eight hundred pounds 
each. There are in addition fourteen tons of blubber, a ton and a half of 
tongue, nearly a ton of heart, and two tons of tail and fins. The viscera, bones, 
etc. make up a total of fifty-one tons for the fifty-foot animal. The meat has 
been marketed in the frozen condition at 12^ to 15 cents a pound and the 
carmed meat at 18 cents a pound. 

When the flesh is frozen within a short time after the animal is killed, and 
before perceptible decomposition has begun, it is found to have an accep- 
table texture and flavor exactly like that of prime beef. Within a brief period, 
however, a characteristic fishy taste and odor develops, which is usually dis- 
agreeable to the consumer. This change appears to be due to bacterial 
action upon the oily part of the meat, and can be lessened or destroyed only 
by parboiling for one minute in weak sodium bicarbonate solution (about 
0.5 per cent). With proper handling, whale meat can be served in such a 
way as to be indistinguishable from beef. 

THE COMPOSITION OF WHALE FLESH 

An analysis of fresh whale meat was reported by H. A. Mattill' as yielding 
the following results: 

Analysis of fresh whale meat 

per cent 

Water 71 .22 

Ash 1.20 

Protein 23 . 13 

Fat 4 .24 

Undetermined 0.21 



100.00 



He performed artificial digestion experiments with the whale meat and 
with lean beef, and found that there was little difference in the results obtained. 

In the fall of 1917, a number of proximate analyses upon frozen whale 
meat were made in the laboratory of Household Science of the University of 
California with the average results shown on the next page. 

'R. C. Andrews: Nat. Geogr. Mag., 1911, 22: 411-442. 

•Report of Coll. of Agr. and Agr. Exp. Sta. of the Univ. of Cahf., p. 58 (1918-19). 



1922] VALUE OF WHALE MEAT AS HITMAN FOOD 269 

The percentages of fat and water vary considerably from those found by 
Mattill, for, as might be expected, the fat content of whale muscle is variable 
even though the texture and appearance are fairly constant. 

Analysis of freshly thawed whale flesh 

per cent 

Water 56.9 

Ash 0.38 

Protein 25. 3 

Fat 17.4 

Undetennined 0.02 



100.00 



Samples of the freshly thawed whale flesh were extracted with cold water 
according to the method described by Emmett,' and total nitrogen, insoluble 
nitrogen, coagulable nitrogen, and meat bases were determined by the tannin- 
salt method. The results compared with similarly obtained results for lean 
beef are shown below: 





NITROGEN 




Total 


Insoluble in 
cold water 


Coagulable 
nitrogen 


Meat bases 


Whale meat 


3.43 

3.35 


2.50 

2.35 


0.35 
0.42 


58 


Fresh beef 


58 







DIGESTIBILITY OF WHALE FLESH^ 

Several experiments were made to determine the digestibility of the freshly 
thawed meat. Two normal young women were used as subjects, and the 
procedure followed was similar to that usually adopted in digestibility 
experiments. 

A basal diet of tapioca or rice, cream or butter, sugar, fruit, and coffee, 
was used, and to this was added a generous amount of the broiled whale 
meat. The basal diet was taken alone for a fore period of two to six days in 
each case, and was then supplemented by the whale meat for periods of three 
days. The urine as well as feces was collected, and food, urine, and feces 
weighed and analyzed for total nitrogen content. 

As a check on the normal protein digestive powers of the same subjects, 
two experiments were carried out with similar basal diets but with lean beef 
round added instead of the whale meat. 

In the case of the whale meat, the percentages of absorption of nitrogen 
were found to be 96.8 and 71.9. In the case of the beef the percentages were 
99 and 98.7 for the same subjects. With subject A the digestibility of the 

3 A. D. Emmett: /. Asso. Off. Agr. Chem., 1915, 1: 267-279. 

'Tables showing comparative digestibility of nitrogen in whale meat and beef are on 
file in the Journal Ofiice and will be loaned on receipt of 10 cents in stamps. 



270 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

whale protein was very little less than that of the beef protein. With subject 
B the result was unfortunately obscured by diarrheal complication which 
greatly increased the fecal output on the fourth and fifth days of the 
experiment. 

The intention was to repeat the whale eating period immediately after the 
second beef period, but it has been found impossible to procure the frozen 
whale flesh. The results obtained in the first trial indicate the probability 
of easy and complete digestion of whale flesh. 

Availability of whale nitrogen for tissue repair. Nitrogen balances were 
calculated for each day of the whale meat experiment. It seems that with 
both subjects nitrogen equilibrium was attained upon amounts of the whale 
nitrogen as low as 0.047 and 0.097 grams per kilogram of body weight. These 
figures compare well with those obtained in similar experiments upon beef 
and other well known protein foods. 



Data are presented upon the proximate analysis of whale flesh, and of 
water extracts of the same. 

Some evidence has been obtained that the digestibility of whale protein is 
similar to that in beef. 

It is indicated that the nitrogen of whale protein is in a high degree avail- 
able for tissue repair in the human adult organism. 



WEIGHTS OF ONE CUPFUL OF FOOD MATERIALS 

SYBIL WOODRUFF 
University of Kansas 

The adoption by home economics teachers of a uniform system of 
weights for the cupful of common food materials is most desirable. In 
experimental work only weights can be relied upon for accuracy; nobody 
questions this but the difficulty lies in the fact that each school has a 
different set of weight equivalents for the common measures. The re- 
sults of experimental cooking reported in various journals have sometimes 
been difficult of interpretation because two investigators who have 
thought they were discussing similar food mixtures have really been 
using noticeably differing proportions by weight. 

The time may come when we teach proportions by weight only, rather 
than by measure, but, until then, the weights reported here are given as an 
effort to standardize the cup equivalents. The writer does not presume 



1922] WEIGHTS OF ONE CUPFUL OF FOOD MATERIALS 271 

to say that these findings and these only are accurate when such materials 
as flours are under consideration; manipulation determines what amount 
of material the cup will hold. But the average of many weighings in 
measures of standard capacity, it seems, should give as usable a figure as 
it is possible to obtain. After all, the need is for uniformity even more 
than for an exaggerated degree of accuracy. 

Equivalent Measures. The volume of the standard cup, one-fourth of 
the legal liquid quart, is given by the Bureau of Standards as 237 cubic 
centimeters.' One cup is equivalent to 16 tablespoons, and one table- 
spoon equivalent to 3 teaspoons. No distinction should be made for 
liquid and dry ingredients, since capacity cannot vary if level measure- 
ments are insured. 

DISCUSSION OF METHODS 

Food Administration Reports. For purposes of comparison the average of the weights 
reported to the Food Administration in 1918 as those in use by the various university and 
college departments of home economics are given here. 

Class Results. Also there are included results obtained by student work in this laboratory. 
These are averages of three to five weighings by each of twelve to fifteen students for each 
material. In this work aluminum measuring cups which only approximated the standard 
volume were used. 

Standard Measures. These determinations have been made by one person and are an 
average of three to five weighings. The measuring vessel used is a standard liquid quart 
loaned for this work by the Department of Weights and Measures of the State of Kansas. 
The quart is used in preference to the cup from the same set of standard measures because 
the larger amount insures smaller manipulative error. The conical shape of the vessel 
makes leveling of the contents a very simple matter. 

Calculations from Specific Gravity. If the density of a material is known an unquestioned 
figure can be arrived at by calculation. Wherever this informadon is to be had, no time need 
be wasted in weiglung. The specific gravity given for fats is the average value reported in 
Leach's Food Inspection and Analysis, except in the case of butter. The specific gravity of 
butter fat plus the increase estimated to be due to water gives the density recorded in the table. 
The specific gravities for rmlk and skimmed milk agree in all texts; that for buttermilk and for 
cream of varying percentages of fat can be found in" Milk" by Heineman (1919). The 
specific gravities given here for molasses and corn s>Tup were determined with a hydrometer 
and also with a weighing bottle. The results agree both when the molasses is diluted with 
four parts of water and when it is undiluted. 

Adopted Average. Wherever a reUable figure is obtained as is the case when specific gravity 
is known, this is adopted. If dropping a decimal or changing the number very slightly gives 
a round number easier to use in calculations, such a change is made. The fats seem to fall 
into four groups; the lightest ones are such fats as have had some air incorporated to make 
tliem white. Lard seems to be in a group by itself. Butter-like fats form the third group 
and it seemed impracticable to assign separate weights to the butter and oleomargarines. The 
oils are so similar that one weight only need be used for all. 

With such variable foods as the flours a "sensible" number is sometimes chosen, e.g. 
exactly one fourth pound for the cup of bread flour and an even 100 grams for pastry flour. 
The reader will note several small changes of this character. 

^ See Bureau of Standards Circular No. 55 and Miscellaneous Publication No. 39. 



272 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOIHCS 



[June 



The Weight of One Cup of Food Materials 



Fats: 

Crisco 

Snowdrift 

Lard compound 

Lard 

Butter 

Oleomargarine : 

Beef fat 

Cocoanut 

Oils: 

Cottonseed 

Corn 

Peanut 

Olive 

Sugar, etc.: 

Sugar, granulated 

Sugar, granulated 

Sugar, brown, light* 

Sugar, brown, dark* 

Sugar, powdered! 

Molasses, cane 

Syrup, com 

Egg: 
WTiole egg (5 Medium) . 
Egg yolk (14 Medium). 
Egg white (8 Medium) . 
Flours and meals: 

Cornstarch 

Commeal, white* 

Commeal, yellow* 

Rye flourf 

Wheat flour, breadf 

Wheat flour, breadj.. . . 
Wheat flour, pastryf. . . 
Wlieat flour, graham*. . 
Starchy foods: 

Beans, lima large 

Beans, lima small 

Beans, navy 

Oats, rolled,* 

Rice, white, whole 

Tapioca, pearl 

Tapioca, small 



0.936 
0.943 



0,923 
0.923 
0.919 
0.917 



1.390 
1.385 



AVERAGE or DETERMINATIONS 



Food 
adminis- 
tration 



207 
219 
223 



216 
219 
221 
210 



155 
146 
335 
332 



135 
139 
139 
97 
115 

104 
124 



203 
81 
218 
175 
176 



211.7 



213.0 
218.8 



211.5 
211.9 



119.6 
104.6 
323.8 
323.5 



131.4 
133.8 

73.8 
113.3 

97.9 
129.4 

168.9 

170.0 
65.8 
212.3 
165.5 
171.1 



gms. 

202.6 
190.0 
203.1 

214.4 

216.5 
220.8 



185.8 
199.0 
134.7 
140.1 
104.5 



243.1 

242.5 
244.5 

124.2 
133.8 
139.4 
97.9 
120.9' 
116.9 
103.4 
116.5 

170.8 
182.8 
190.9 
71.0 
207.9 
164.6 
161.8 



Calculated 

(sp. gr. 

etc.) 



221.8 

223.4 



218.7 
218.7 
217.8 
217.3 



329.4 
328.2 



180t 
180t 
180t 



' Loosely packed. f Sifted. | Calculated from legal weight of busheL 



1922] 



WEIGHTS or ONE CUPFUL OF FOOD MATERIALS 



273 



Milk and cream: 

Milk, whole 

Milk, skimmed 

Buttermilk 

Cream, 40 per cent fat 
Cream 18 per cent fat. 



1.030 


244 






244 


1.036 


248 






245 


1.033 








245 


0.995 


230 






235 


1.015 


238 






240 



244 
245 
245 
235 
240 



Weights of One Teaspoon of Material. The data for a teaspoon have been obtained by 
weighing one cupful of the material in a standard capacity, measuring cup borrowed from 
the Department of Weights and Measures. Tablespoons and teaspoons whether ordinary 
or especially designed for measuring purposes are as unreliable in volume as measuring 
cups. The theoretical weight thus obtained would seem to be more dependable than 
measurements by teaspoons. The reported weights of one cup are the average of three 
weighings, but of one sample only of each kind of material. 



Weight of One Teaspoon of Material 



Baking powder, alum (KC) 

Baking powder, cream of tartar (Royal) 
Baking powder, phosphate (Ryzon). . . . 
Baking powder, phosphate (Rumford). . 

Baking soda 

Cream of tartar 

Table salt, medium fine 



1 CUP 


1 TEASPOOW 
(1/48 C0P) 


grams 


grams 


137.0 


2,85 


147.4 


3.07 


147.8 


3.07 


169.3 


3.52 


179.7 


3.74 


149.7 


3.12 


195.1 


4.06 



Acknowledgment. Elizabeth C. Sprague while with the Food Administration in 1918 was 
personally responsible for the collecting of the data from universities and colleges which is 
included in these tables. Her interest in this subject which antedated the Food Adminstra- 
tion summary by many years has been most keen during the preparation of this article. Full 
recognition is accorded to her much appreciated cooperation. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH PROBLEM- 
IN HOUSEHOLD PHYSICS 



RESEARCH COMMITTEE, AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

Note: "We have a student who would like to do research work on a problem in household 
equipment. Will you suggest a good practical problem at which she might hope to accom- 
plish something definite this semester, also suitable methods of attack?" 

Requests very similar to the above are not infrequent, and it is the hope of the research 
Committee to present suggestions which may be useful to such inquirers. The following 
suggestions came from one who has already made a beginning toward the solution of this 
problem, but who is not able to continue that investigation, and would like to see it worked 
out in some other laboratory. 



274 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

EFFECT OF UTENSILS OF DIFFERENT MATERIALS UPON RATE OF COOKLVG 

One might expect, from consideration of the usual figures for rate of con- 
duction of heat through different metals, that aluminum vessels of the same 
thickness as iron vessels would heat their contents twice as fast and that the 
rate of heating in ordinary aluminum vessels, as compared with ordinary iron 
or enamelled iron vessels, would be proportionately still more rapid, on 
account of the difference in thickness of all. However, a few trials made 
with vessels of different materials and of the same size and shape, filled with 
the same amount of water taken at a given initial temperature and stirred 
constantly during the heating process, placed in a carefully defined position 
over a certain burner and heated always at the same rate as measured by 
B.T.U., or calories per minute, to a given temperature, in a room kept at or 
near a given temperature uniformly maintained without drafts, will probably 
convince the observer that no such difference in heating rates exists. 

The rates at which heat is radiated from the outer walls to the surrounding 
atmosphere, in case of vessels of differing materials, must be taken into ac- 
count. The problem of comparing cast iron, heavy enamel ware, and cast 
aluminum vessels such as are often used in making tea kettles or frying pans, 
must be differentiated from that of comparing the thinner walled ordinary 
saucepans of these different materials. 

Studies of the effect of material of which the utensil is made, may be at- 
tempted both with completely filled and with partially filled vessels, likewise 
with covered and with uncovered vessels. Maximum differences may be ex- 
pected to occur among uncovered, partially filled vessels. 

Comparative effects may vary somewhat with the rate of heating, as 
judged by B.T.U. or calorie value of gas burned per minute; also with the 
method of its application, i.e., whether the edges of the flame ascend about the 
walls of the vessel, or whether the bottom of the vessel exceeds the diameter 
of the burner over which it is placed, by several inches. It is better to select 
85° or 90°C. than 100°C. as the end-point, because of the difficulty of securing 
good checks in duplicate experiments when evaporation is excessive. 

The eflSciency of each vessel under any given set of conditions can be 
ascertained, by dividing the theoretical number of B.T.U., or calories, re- 
quired for the given temperature elevation of the given amount of water, by 
the total number actually consumed during the process of that temperature 
elevation in the experiment performed. In case of a municipal gas supply, 
the B.T.U. value of the gas used upon any given date can usually be obtained 
from the city gas inspector or analyst. Corrections for temperature and 
barometer should be made.^ 

For bibhography see Chemical Abstract, Experiment Station Record, Indus- 
trial Arts Index, Engineering Index, Chemisches Zentralblatt, Science Abstracts 
of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. 

' See Journal of Home Economics, .\pril, 1919, pp. 158-162 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

MARKET PREFERENCES 

CAROLINE B. SHERMAN 
United States Department of Agriculture 

Market preferences are elusive to the person who would explain them 
but only too real to the producer or shipper who disregards them. They 
are usually built on custom and prejudice only. That no more substan- 
tial reason is back of them is evidenced by the fact that the variety, or 
size, or color of product that is taboo in one city is often, if not always, 
preferred in some other. Red onions, for instance, are the favorites in 
New Orleans but are almost invariably discounted elsewhere. Knowing 
that these preferences are largely without adequate foundation in 
reason, many producers are inclined to ignore them or to treat them with 
disdain. A good onion is a good onion, the country over, they argue. 
But it makes little difference if an onion be good if one out of every three 
purchasers passes it by. Shippers are coming to understand that they 
cannot afford to overlook seeming vagaries on the part of the public, 
for the public is the market. Hence, these preferences are in a fair way 
to become even more fixed. 

The individual purchaser prefers a certain variety, size, or color and 
sees no reason why she should not gratify her preference. She even 
knows it is the prevailing preference among her friends; still more reason 
for demanding it. But the individual purchaser rarely realizes that 
her insistence on this choice, together with similar insistence on the part 
of others, no one of whom intends to be unreasonable, constitutes another 
complication in the already complex matter of marketing. 

Cranberries afford a noteworthy example. The large markets of the 
country vary widely as to the type of berry in demand. New York 
City prefers dark-colored cranberries but middlewestern markets consider 
such berries overripe and insist on the Hghter colored fruit. This means 
that the cranberries grown in New Jersey, which are light in color, cannot 
be marketed to advantage in the neighboring large market of New York, 
but must be shipped to Pittsburgh, St. Louis, and cities farther west 
where they are especially favored. 

In New York the demand is largely for colored cheese and in Chicago 
this preference is marked, but "nothing but white cheese goes in this 
market," says the gentleman from Philadelphia. New York and Phila- 
delphia want butter of hght color and a mild flavor; fortunately Boston 
is gradually shifting toward the same qualifications although formerly 

275 



276 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

it demanded butter of high color and high flavor. New Orleans is 
another city that is manifesting a gradual change in butter preference 
and it, too, is tending away from the high color, although the general 
demand throughout the South is for butter of high color and relatively 
heavy salting. 

Preferences in regard to eggs, while probably meaningless, are pro- 
nounced. New York prefers not only white-shelled eggs, but chalk- 
white, and they usually sell at a premium over all others. Boston, on 
the other hand, demands brown-shelled eggs and pays a premium for 
fancy selected browns. Other markets, other mandates. Philadelphia 
is so insistent on having dry-picked dressed poultry that scalded fowls 
are not only slow to move but usually sell below the relative prevailing 
prices in other cities. 

Onion preferences relate to size as well as to color. Crystal wax boilers 
of small size usually sell at a discount ranging from fifty cents to a dollar 
below the price paid for onions of the first grade in all of the principal 
markets except New York. The large foreign population of that city 
wants small boilers and will pay a premium for them. 

Certain large markets, Kansas City for example, are known in the 
trade as "red apple cities" and yellow varieties such as Winter Bananas 
and Newtowns find a relatively small market in the Gulf States. In 
eastern cities, as a rule, some of the yellow varieties are prime favorites. 
While color preferences in regard to apples are rather marked in domestic 
markets, large exporters have found that color plays practically no part 
in export trade. 

Some preferences relate solely to wholesale demand and are not trace- 
able directly to the individual consimier. In this class comes the Chicago 
potato market which is unique in its preference for bulk shipments. 
Under ordinary market conditions in this city, bulk cars bring a substan- 
tial premium over sacked stock, although other large markets demand 
that potatoes reach them in the usual containers. The explanation is 
that the Chicago buyer pays for the actual weight as recorded when he 
hauls the stock over the scales. This he does not do until he has sorted 
out the potatoes he wants from the car, leaving behind him, often, a goodly 
percentage of less desirable stock which must be taken out of the car 
and disposed of as culls; whereas, re-sorting is rarely allowed in the 
case of sacked potatoes. Both dealers and household customers con- 
tribute to the fact that certain cities have decided preferences for cer- 
tain kinds of melons sold in certain ways. In some markets pink- 
fleshed melons are in greater demand while in other cities the opposite 



1922] MARKET PREFERENCES 277 

is true. Paper-wrapped cantaloupes are preferred by the trade of some 
cities on account of their attractive appearance while in others the 
dealers object to the paper wrapped, realizing that it promotes decay 
by retarding evaporation after the melons are taken from the refrigerator 
car. 

When a grower produces for a local market only, or for neighboring 
markets, it may be to his advantage to have before him a definite demand 
for a well-defined kind of commodity or group of commodities, but a 
steadily decreasing proportion of the food products of the country are 
grown in the region of their consumption. The large commercial sup- 
pHes of produce for a large city come from widely separated areas. The 
large producing areas, in order to supply the large markets with any- 
thing resembling well-balanced quantities must be able to ship to any 
of several markets at will, or to divert carloads already in transit. Only 
by such methods can gluts be avoided in some cities and under sup- 
plies in others. But the shipper who diverts carloads of choice stock 
packed for a city with a marked preference, now suddenly oversuppUed, 
toward a city with a marked conflicting preference, even though not 
fully suppHed, is courting disaster. Shippers have found repeatedly 
that the loss incurred in trying to place goods regardless of con- 
simaers' preferences is much greater than that incurred by long dis- 
tance shipment and cross hauls, even at present rates of transportation, 
when employed to reach a market demanding the particular variety, 
size, or color of product they have for sale. Experiences of this sort 
demonstrate clearly the truth of the disputed maxim that, after aU, the 
consumer is king. 



278 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

HOUSEHOLD BRUSHES 

RUTH VAN DEMAN 

Household brushes are apparently articles of equipment that have 
been " taken as found and no questions asked." There seems to be little 
or no printed material about the types of household brushes and the 
materials of which they are made, written from the point of view of the 
woman who buys and uses them. Nevertheless, brushes are put to 
fifteen or twenty good uses in cleaning and keeping in running order the 
house and its furnishings. One can hardly turn a page of any recent 
publication on housecleaning without linding the directions to clean this 
or that surface or material with soft or stiff, pointed or spiral brush 
as the case may be. Definite information about brushes would help the 
buyer to choose them more intelligently, using some other standard 
besides price as a basis of judgment. 

THE COMMON FIBERS IN HOUSEHOLD BRUSHES 

From sources as diverse as the Arabian pony, the Chinese wild boar, 
the mule, the Australian goat, tropical palms, Mexican weeds, and cou- 
sins of the century plant, according to the manufacturers, come the 
fibers that are made into brushes to scrub our sinks, sweep our smoothly 
finished floors, and clean our bottles. 

The animal libers, which are more expensive, go into the brushes in 
which durability, texture, pliability, and "spring" count. For instance 
the floor brush of good quality mule hair will not only give long and ex- 
cellent service, but will also "wear right down to the block," as one 
brush manufacturer puts it. In other words, use will gradually wear 
down the ends of these fibers, but they will remain phable, springy, 
smooth, and they can be successfully cleaned by careful washing in luke- 
warm soapsuds or in warm water and a little armnonia. If the house- 
keeper can afford the original outlay and will give them even reasonable 
care, brushes of animal fibers of good quality will be found more economi- 
cal in the end for many purposes. The animal fibers are generally used 
in brushes for floors having varnished, waxed, or other smooth surface, 
for upholstery and heavy hangings, and for walls with fairly rough 
surface. For scrubbing and rough uses the vegetable fibers are best, 
both because they are more rigid and because they are less aft'ected than 
animal fibers by alkahes and boiling water. Spiral bristle brushes of 
various sizes are excellent for clearung bottles, radiators, the crevices in 



1922] HOUSEHOLD BRUSHES 279 

wicker futnitiire and bed springs, and numerous other spots that are 
difficult to reach with a cloth and fingers. 

Fibers from more than a dozen kinds of palms are used in brushes, and 
are given a variety of trade names, such as "Ox Fiber," "Kittool," "Pal- 
myra," and "Arenga." Some of these, for instance "Kittool" and 
"Arenga," are of almost hair-like fineness, while others are so coarse 
and stiff as to be fit only for use in street and stable brooms. Toughness 
and durability are characteristics of the best palm fibers, but they 
are somewhat harsh and are best for scrubbing and for sweeping cement 
and other hard, rough surfaces. In color some of the most widely 
used of the palm fibers are tan and reddish brown. 

Rice root, which has no coimection with the cereal but is the under- 
ground portion of a large bunch grass growing on the mountain slopes of 
Mexico, is a stiff, cream-colored, wavy, rather brittle fiber, once widely 
used for scrubbing brushes but now going out in favor of the palm 
fibers. Disturbed labor conditions in Mexico are said to be an import- 
ant reason for this, but when told that, in spite of the "battle, murder, 
and sudden death" in Russia and Siberia, the exports of wild boar 
bristles have not been seriously affected, one questions whether the 
faUing off in the use of rice root is not due to the superior quality of 
other fibers produced as cheaply. Rice root, or "Raiz de Zacation" 
as it is called in Mexico, has been a popular fiber with European brush 
manufacturers, who mix it with Venetian whisk, an Italian grass root. 
Because they know this fiber, Itahans, French, and other Europeans in 
this country still demand rice root brushes. 

Tampico, or istle (eet-le), is the trade name covering three different 
fibers, two of which are extensively used in a great variety of household 
brushes. These fibers, Tula and Jaumeve (Jiow-u-mah-ve) , are prepared 
by hand in Mexico from agaves, relatives of the century plant which is 
conspicuous in the arid regions of the Southwest. They are tough, 
fine, yellowish to creamy white in color, and especially resistant to 
injury by water. Tampico is often colored black and reddish brown, 
and a mixture of these two with the natural color is said to please particu- 
larly the fancy of negro brush buyers. When colored and skillfully 
sized, tampico looks not unlike animal bristles, and is in many cases 
used for the larger part of a brush with a few rows of animal bristles or 
hair around the edge. Such mixtures give good service, and, like com- 
binations of linen and cotton in textiles, are cause for complaint only when 
sold for what they are not. If the housekeeper is careful, however, she 
need not be deceived. The vegetable fibers are usually less lustrous 



280 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

and smooth than those of animal origin, and burn like a splinter of wood, 
leaving an ash, while a burning animal bristle shrivels at the end and gives 
off the characteristic odor of burning hair. 

TYPES OF BRUSH CONSTRUCTION 

From the point of view of construction there seem to be two general 
types of household brushes on the market: those with the fibers fastened 
into a wooden block in one of several ways, and the twisted-in-wire, 
which may be either straight or oval. Each has its own range of use- 
fulness. 

In the old-fashioned wooden block brushes, the fibers may be stapled 
in, the cheapest form of construction; or cement set; or wire drawn, the 
most tedious and consequently the most expensive way of fastening 
them. By far the greatest number of household brushes are stapled, 
and this type of construction has another advantage besides cheapness. 
Each knot or tuft of fibers is fastened in separately, and one may loosen 
and drop out without affecting the others; whereas, in the wire-drawn 
brush if one knot comes out, the whole wire is likely to become slack, 
thus allowing many knots to drop out. The cement set can be easily 
told by the little rim of dried cement or pitch, as manufacturers often 
call it, on the block around each cluster of fibers. If the fibers are wire 
drawn, the block has to be split and screwed together again and the crack 
can always be detected. The cement-set brush will give good service 
if certain precautions are taken. It has this disadvantage, however, 
that, if kept in a warm closet as in many households, the heat dries out 
the cement and makes it so brittle that it fails to hold the tufts of fibers 
in place. At any rate, in buying a brush for long use, the housekeeper 
will find that it pays to notice how the fibers are held in place. 

The twisted-in-wire brushes are spiral, with fibers held by strands of 
rust-proof wire that twist tightly about each other and at the same time 
clamp the fibers in place. Wood, celluloid, or sometimes the twisted 
wire itself forms the handle. Some of these brushes are rigid, others 
flexible, so that they can be poked into curving drain pipes and between 
the coils of a radiator. 

Manufacturing and selling brushes may seem to many a rather dull 
business, but there are apparently some amusing "come backs" from the 
trade. Boston, with its proverbial intelligence, refuses to buy scrubbing 
brushes without handles to keep the worker's hands safely above the 
grimy water. In Cincinnati it is the approved thing to clean shutters 



1922] MEAT PRICES AND THE HOUSEWIFE 281 

with the brushes originally designed for scrubbing wholesale milk cans. 
Other sections of the country, without obvious reason, demand that 
their brushes be pointed or rectangular, and have fibers of various colors. 
A study of brush habits might bring out some interesting data, and cer- 
tainly durability tests of the various fibers and their adaptability to given 
purposes would be valuable. 

MEAT PRICES AND THE HOUSEWIFE 

DAY MONROE 

Departmenl of Foods and Cookery, Teachers College 

A woman is usually considered an intelligent buyer of meat if she can 
recognize some of the commonly used cuts and knows how to cook them. 
But it is significant of the present movement toward a better under- 
standing between the retailer and the consumer that the butcher is now 
asking the housewife to carry her knowledge further and to understand 
his problem in meat selling. It is not enough that a customer know what 
cuts she likes; she should also know what cuts there are, and should 
realize the quantity of beef her butcher must buy in a side of a steer 
in order to give her a few porterhouse steaks. 

At a Food Forum on meat,' the need of cooperation between the house- 
wives and the butcher was set forth by George Kramer of Ye Olde 
New York Branch United Master Butchers of America. A good side 
of beef from a western steer was brought to the demonstration, weighed, 
and cut up as for retail sales. Each cut was weighed, the weight posted, 
and with it the percentage weight of the whole given by that particular 
cut. Mr. Kramer told of inquiring of a group of women what kinds of 
beef they used in their homes. All of them were familiar with porter- 
house and sirloin steaks, round for steaks and roasts, and prime rib roasts; 
some bought shin of beef for soup and chuck for stews. But their knowl- 
edge of beef went little beyond this. Of the rump, brisket, plate, navel, 
skirt, flank, and shoulder, slight mention was made. 

When a butcher buys a side of beef he pays one price per pound for the 
whole; but when it is cut up for sale the prices must be set according 
to the desirability of the meat. No one would think of paying as much 
for shin bone meat as for a thick juicy porterhouse steak! So although 
the tender cuts cost the consumer much more per pound than the whole- 

' Teachers College, under the auspices of Miss Van Arsdale of the Department of Foods 
and Cookery. 



282 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

sale price, sometimes pieces not so desirable can be bought for even less 
per pound than they cost the butcher. 

Unfortunately the cuts we like best are but one- third of the side of 
beef, by weight: porterhouse steaks, 6 per cent; sirloin steaks, 7 per cent; 
round steaks, 5 per cent; prime rib roast, 6 per cent; blade rib roast, 
5 per cent; top sirloin, 4 per cent; total, 33 per cent. 

On the other hand the things we seldom ask for, but which must be 
paid for by the butcher when he buys his choice cuts make up two-thirds 
of the total: soup meat (shin, flank, neck, plate, etc.), 21 per cent; fat and 
suet, 10 per cent; bones, 8 per cent; navel, 5 per cent; brisket, 5 per cent; 
horse shoe cut, 2 per cent; rump, 3 per cent; bottom round eye roast 
and middle cut, 3 per cent; cross rib roast, 4 per cent; skirt and flank 
steaks, 1 per cent; chuck steaks, 4 per cent; waste and shrinkage, 1 per 
cent; total, 67 per cent. 

If you were keeping a store and had to sell two-thirds of the goods 
you bought at little above cost in order to persuade your customers to 
buy them, you would plan to make enough from selling the other third 
to pay your rent and running expenses and to support your family. 
This is what the butcher must do, and herein lies the explanation of the 
high cost of the "best" meat. These "best" cuts are no higher in nutri- 
tive value than many of the less expensive ones but they must be the 
profit makers. 

The only way to reduce the price of steaks and prime rib roasts is to 
use the other cuts more frequently so that there will be a steady market 
for the whole side of beef. It is easy to cook sirloin steak, but it is 
cheaper to buy chuck steak occasionally even if it must be more carefuUy 
prepared. If we think we have little time for stews and pot roasts and 
braised meats, we should buy pressure cookers or fireless cookers, or 
we should not complain about the high costs of the other cuts. 

The steer cannot be changed. Nature made him as he is with much 
meat for stews and little for the steaks and best roasts. It is the house- 
wife's responsibility to realize this and to try to help the butcher use his 
beef "left-overs" just as she would plan to use less desirable chicken 
"left-overs" in her own home. The butcher can not help her by lowering 
meat prices unless she helps him to find a market for all of the meat 
which he must buy. There must be cooperation. 



EDITORIAL 

A Larger Journal. Beginning with July each regular issue of the 
JouRXAL will be increased to 52 pages, exclusive of advertising, as 
long as this space can be adequately and profitably filled. This change is 
based upon the belief that home economics women are interested in 
their professional publication and will supply it with good, representative 
material. The Journal also anticipates an increasing number of fresh, 
new contributions from the affiliated states, in the form of news, projects 
they may undertake, and other items of interest. The Journal is 
striving to be the real voice of the Association, the "tie that binds" 
the states and regions together into a strong American Home Economics 
Association. 

Even this small increase in the number of pages is not without its 
drawbacks, however. Drawbacks seem to have a way of being connected 
wath finances. So it is in this case. The printing of these pages alone, 
necessitates securing at least 50 new subscriptions a month. But we have 
taken the step, and we count on a larger Journal to bring new interest 
and new subscriptions, and on new interest and new subscriptions to 
make a larger, better Journal. 

Purpose and Advantages of State Affiliation. The purpose of 
regional organization and affiliation of individual states with the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Accociation is twofold : 

1. To provide a more unified Association. 

2. To provide a more representative Association. It is believed that 
these two purposes can be fulfilled through the affiliation of individual 
states and the grouping of these states into regions having common 
problems.' 

Some results anticipated from affiliation are as follows: 

Through affiliation of a state, each member of the State Association 
becomes a member of the National Association with full voting privileges. 
This membership is secured at $1 .00 instead of $2 .00, the cost of member- 
ship outside the state association. 

The aiBliated state is privileged to elect a councilor to represent it 
on the National Council. The proceedings of the Annual meeting will 
be printed in the Journal for all members of the Association. 

Because of the lowered national dues and the privilege of the pro- 
ceedings, it will be possible to secure a wider state membership from the 

' For basis of affiliation, see report of Annual Meeting, A. H. E. A., J . Borne Econ., Sept., 
1921 

283 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

teachers in the small community, thus increasing the state revenue and 
hence the work which the state may promote to the benefit of all. 

Because of larger and more representative state associations, there 
will be an increased revenue to the A. H. E. A. which can be used in 
making home economics material available. The support of the execu- 
tive secretary seems possible through this plan. 

Because of the unity with the National Association, it will be possible 
to keep states in touch with problems of national interest, through 
correspondence, through persons who may be going from state to state, 
and, monthly, through the Journal. 

A larger and better Journal is a probable outcome, because of the 
better organization through which to secure and maintain Journal sub- 
scriptions and content. As a corollary to this, the larger subscription 
list will mean more advertising and a better financial status. 

Finally, the results which may be anticipated in the general support 
of the professional association for home economics women will make 
it possible for the Association to continue its present work and to enlarge 
its scope of influence, a condition impossible save as every person in- 
terested lends her influence. This influence is best expressed in active 
membership in the A. H. E. A. 

Mildred Weigley, 
Chairman, Regional Organization. 

The Role of Instinct in the Choice of Food. — "Can instinct 
guide the animal advantageously when there is a limited variety of food 
available?" Concerning this there has been much speculation and a 
little scientific investigation. Some investigations several years ago 
gave Eward- reason to believe that swine were able to select the kind 
and amount of food they needed. Osborne and MendeP found that 
rats were capable of choosing with surprising effectiveness between two 
proffered food mixtures similar in texture and attractiveness but differ- 
ing notably in nutritive value. One mixture was described briefly as 
nutritively inferior in contrast with the other which was more adequate 
for nutrition in growth; the animals instinctively ate more freely of the 
one which experimental evidence had demonstrated to be preferable. 
More recent experiments by Mitchell and Mendel* have demonstrated 

« Eward, J. M., Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., 22, 375 (1915) 

' Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B., Choice between adequate and inadequate diets, made 
by rats. Jour. Biol. Chem. 35, 19 (1918) 

* Mitchell, H. S. and Mendel, L. B., Choice between adequate and inadequate diets, as 
made by rats and mice. Amer. Jour. Physiol. 58, 211 (Dec. 1921) 



1922] OPEN FORUM 285 

that rats and mice are capable of choosing from foods of a limited variety 
so as to meet satisfactorily the demands of growth. Groups of animals 
were allowed to choose freely and eat unrestrictedly from prepared mix- 
tures described by the authors as (a) high and low protein, (b) complete 
and incomplete protein, (c) high and low in certain vitamins, salts, 
et cetera; when allowed such a free choice they thrive as well as those 
animals fed on a purposely superior diet. In one part of the experiment 
where meat and corn preparations and a salt mixture were offered ad 
libitum, the rats chose in all cases not a high protein diet but a moderate 
one which, judged by the usual standards, was sufficient for all purposes. 
These results were in accord with a previous statement by Osborne and 
Mendel: "Desire of the young animal for food is something more than 
mere satisfaction of calorific needs. The demand made by growth im- 
pulse must be met by food of proper chemical constitution." 

It would be interesting to know how far the man of modern civiliza- 
tion with his perverted tastes could be trusted to select by instinct a 
diet fully adequate for his needs. There is abundant evidence that he 
does not always choose his own food nor that for his young in the wisest 
manner. Instinct today has relatively little to do with his selection 
which is limited by a restricted supply and economic repressions. The 
more civilized man becomes, the less choice is he able to exercise in this 
regard, and the more fixed do his dietetic habits become. It is impossible 
to believe that man could have reached his present state of development 
without a diet adequate for all purposes. WTiether the diet of today 
will prove equal to the demands of the future, many scientists are doubt- 
ing. It is impossible to revert now to instinct; the alternative is edu- 
cation in right habits. 

Sybil Woodruff. 

THE OPEN FORUM 

To the Editor of the Journal: 

The following family history has been sent me in response to a plea for such 
material which appeared in my book, "Successful Family Life on the Moderate 
Income." It seems to me to show such an admirable spirit and so much intelli- 
gence that I wish to share it with the readers of the Journal. 

If we as an Association could have a thousand actual or even carefully esti- 
mated budgets of family incomes under $3000 we would possess material for 
a very helpful study of the conditions in which a valuable portion of the 
community live. 

Mary Hinman Abel. 



286 THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

Family History, 1921 

Family made up of man aged twenty-nine years, woman aged thirty, and one child — boy 
two years. 

Place of residence. College town in east. 

Occupation of man. Foreman of new and repair work on gas service. Hours: 9 hours 
daily and writing to do evenings, also on duty for trouble calls at all hours of day and night, 
Sundays and holidays. 

Parentage, Education, and Character 

Man. His mother died when he was two years old, his father was shiftless, therefore 
selfish and brought the boy up to buy before earning the wherewithal to pay. No schooling 
after nine years of age and after that his father took his wages till he was twenty-one years old, 
keeping him shabbily dressed. Man saw the folly of such living, was naturally neat, became 
industrious upon leaving his father and surroundings, wanted to save but found it hard to 
start. He is quiet, very fond of music — good music, and appreciates refinements of life. 

Woman had to leave school in second year of high school because of long and severe Ulness 
which left her partly crippled and not strong. Went to work in an office when nineteen 
years old, never had heard of budgets but kept the following: 

Board, Room and Washing $5 .00 

Savings 2.00 

Clothing 1 .50 

Church SO 

Vacation, Xmas, etc 50 

Doctor 50 

$10.00 per week 

Child is well, obedient and good, therefore always happy, considers it a privilege to wait 
on others. 

Start in Life. This couple were married when twenty-two and twenty-three years old, 
respectively. Woman's savings of $500 used to make cash payment on home very centrally 
located. Man's savings paid for the furnishings of four rooms including an unusually well 
stocked pantry. 

Financial Report for 1921. Yearly Income $1456.00 {$28.00 a week). 

Rent — includes: interest, taxes, water rate, insurance on house and furniture, 

and $50.00 for year's repairs, etc $5 .00 

Insurance — 20 pay't life, is more than we could afford but wife needed protec- 
tion because of delicate health 4.00 

Savings 3.00 

Savings toward Home 1 .00 

Operating — heat, light, gas and telephone 3 .00 

Clothing — Man is very hard on clothes 3 .00 

Food 5 . 00 

Health — Wife had a hundred dollar operation and is under doctor's care all 

the time 3.00 

Church and Charity 50 

Vacation, Xmas, etc 50 

$28.00 



1922] OPEN FORXJM 287 

Budget for 1922. Income to be about $1560.00 
Savings: 

For the bank Si.OOl 

5 shares of cooperative bank stock ^ ■ ^^ I ti n rm 

Insurance 5 . 75| 

Payment on home 1 .OOj 

Rent $5 .00 

Clothes $3 .00 

Operating $3 .00 

Food $6 . 00 

Health $1 .50 

Church, etc $ .50 

Vacation, etc $1 .00 

$30.00 

Family Life. Home loving people, get out very little except to church. In summer of 
1922 hope to visit tovm where woman lived as a girl. 

Prospects for the Future. Hope to have enough paid in on our home so tliat paid up shares 
of cooperative bank stock (SIOOO) can make the final payment. 

When child is seven or eight years old we wish to purchase five more shares of cooperative 
bank stock to be used for his college education with the help of his own earnings and savings. 

Hope to install plumbing and heating in our home by the next ten years. Hope to have a 
piano. Want to invest our savings to start an old age fund. 

Home Economics in the Citrus Fruit Region.— Under the title 
"An Appeal to Human Dignity" Dr. F. W. Blackmar, Dean of the 
Graduate School of the University of Kansas describes in a recent issue 
of the "Survey" an experiment in home building made by the California 
Citrus Fruit Growers' Exchange. He says in part: 

The local fruit associations, each with a central packing house, remedied 
the evil of a continual shift of labor by making permanent homes for Mexican 
families. In the center of the fruit packing area they built villages of ten, 
thirty-six or sixty one-famOy houses, as required. These are constructed of 
either wood or concrete, and consist usually of four rooms and bath, with 
modern conveniences, but they are simple in arrangement to suit the ideas of 
the Mexicans who hve in them. Around each one is a plot of ground large 
enough for raising all the vegetables used by the family. Lodging houses for 
unmarried men have also been erected. These homes are furnished to the 
laborers at nominal rents just suiBcient to cover interest on the investment. 
Not only the streets and yards, but the interiors of the buildings are under the 
closest sanitary inspection. This method of housing has a tendency to insure 
permanent residence and employment, for the homes are so superior to the 
dirty, squalid shacks occupied under ordinary circumstances by Mexican 
laborers that the families are willing to stay on, not only through the season, 
but from year to year. 



288 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (June 

The Mexican laborer is rather a faithful type, willing to be directed by those 
who understand his psychology. \VhOe one would scarcely look for leaders in 
American civilization from this population that drifts over the border mainly 
for the purpose of working for food, a little clothing and many cigarettes, it is 
a great acliievement to have fitted it intelligently into an American system 
of labor. 

If so much can be accomplished with this group of people — of all classes the 
least interested in community life and affairs of government — does it not 
emphasize the statement, frequently made, that the great immigration labor 
problem has arisen because the United States has failed to care properly for 
the foreigner? Knowing that much labor agitation arises because of the dis- 
contentment of foreigners, is it not reasonable to conjecture that, with more 
interest and care on the part of the employers, irregularity might have been 
prevented? 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: What is your opinion as to the method of ventilating large 
kitchens by means of a ventilating fan? 

Answer: 1. This method of ventilation is one that is common in 
restaurants. It is successful. 

2. Its cost of operation would be between 1 and 2 cents per hour. 

3. The apparatus would probably cost between $25.00 and $50.00 
exclusive of installation. 

4. Its efhciency would be affected by a strong wind opposing. 

5. Doors leading to other rooms would probably have to be closed 
when it was in operation to insure against odors getting into other 
rooms. 

6. In very cold weather it would likely reduce the temperature 
considerably. 

7. To summarize: In all but extreme conditions of wind and tempera- 
ture it could be depended upon to do what is claimed for it. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Getting Your Money's Worth. By Isabel 

Ely Lord. New York: Harcourt, Brace 

and Company, 1922, pp. 210. $2.00 

"Getting Your Money's Worth," is a 

book which the housekeeper wants and needs 

and it will do much both to take the mystery 

out of budget making and to clarify people's 

thoughts in regard to their questions of 

personal finance. 

In the preface Miss Lord states, "Getting 
your money's worth means knowledge of 
how to choose and how to buy, as well as 
how to apportion the income, but here, for 
the sake of brevity, only the latter aspect 
is discussed." This statement is perhaps 
the key to the contents of the book but 
fortunately one also finds some most valuable 
help on the how to choose and how to buy 
aspects because of their relationship to 
apportionment. 

One distinct departure which Miss Lord 
makes is in the classification of the expendi- 
tures. Instead of the usual division of Food, 
Clothing, Shelter, Operating Expenses, 
Higher Life, Personal Expenses, and Mis- 
cellaneous, she suggests a list of thirty-five 
items, arranged alphabetically, from which 
one can choose the item applicable to her 
particular family. The use of such a list 
admits of no misunderstanding. The dis- 
cussion of the various items is full of practical 
help. 

The chapters on "Why and What 
Accounts" and on "How to Keep Accounts" 
win do much to produce a right attitude of 
mind toward accounts. These chapters 
give enough detail of the mechanics of 
account keeping, especially of the use of the 
card system, so that the novice will not give 
up in despair when confronted by the 
innumerable questions which arise in keeping 
classified accounts for the first time. 

The common feeling that a budget, once 
made, is inflexible and should be adhered to 
strictly is overcome in the chapter, "On 
Readjusting." The reader loses some of 
her antagonism to the budget because she 
realizes that the right kind of budget can 
be altered when necessary, is constructive, 
and is an aid to better balanced hving. The 
discussion of income other than money 
should make the housekeeper put a truer 



valuation on her work. The housewife is 
apt to forget that her routine household 
duties and her thrift are productive. The 
discussion of income other than money 
throws a much needed Ught on the value of 
these tasks. 

One cannot read " Getting Your Money's 
Worth," witliout recognizing that a budget 
may be a personal matter but that its 
social aspect is of greater importance than 
its individual aspect. Because of the con- 
structive and practical tone which runs 
throughout the book, many people will 
be brought to a realization of the satis- 
faction which budgeting, account keeping, 
and right uses of resources may produce. 
Miss Lord has added to home economics 
literature a book which will be useful in the 
class room but which will be especially 
valuable to both men and women in adjust- 
ing their personal financial problems. 

Sarah J. MacLeod. 

What is Social Work? An Introductory 

Description. By Mary E. Richmond. 

New York: Russell Sage Foundation, 

1922, pp. 268. $1.00. 

Workers and students in the field of social 
work have looked forward with eagerness 
to Miss Richmond's new book, "What is 
Social Case Work?" because of her unique 
position in her profession. As Director of 
the Charity Organization Department of the 
Russell Sage Foundation and author of 
"Social Diagnosis" and "The Good Neigh- 
bor," she has been for years a recognized 
authority on social case work. 

The volume recently issued, which calls 
itself "An Introductory Description," begins 
with the narration of six histories, chosen by 
the author as typifying case work. These 
include a difficult, maladjusted girl who is 
not a defective; a small boy in need of a 
home; a husband and wife who cannot 
agree; a fatherless family with children 
who are not receiving proper care; a widow 
with children, who is not an efficient home 
maker; and an older woman with difficulties 
which her relatives fail to understand. 
These bring out various problems and 
emphases in social case work. One case, 
for example, stresses the value of imagina- 
289 



290 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



live s>-mpathy instead of routine court 
punishment for a young petty offender, 
showing the constructive work possible 
with a difficult girl who otherwise might 
have become a hardened offender. Another 
brings out the need for continuing a case 
long after the old-time agency would have 
closed it. A third shows the value of 
studying the client's background. It illus- 
trates the long and, at times, discouraging 
efforts required to develop in a mother 
honesty, cleanliness, and self-respect, 
through learning her background and appeal- 
ing to her pride and love of her children. 
Again, the problem of the reeducation of a 
family is taken up, with a discussion of the 
value of the home in the building up of 
family morale. There is a discussion of the 
possibility of securing the cooperation of 
relatives, not merely from the standpoint of 
financial aid, but primarily for help in the 
rehabilitation of the family. 

The book shows the author's acquaintance 
with many cases and makes the reader 
desirous of more. One wishes that there 
had been room for the inclusion of cases 
illustrating such situations as that of an 
aged couple; a chronic deserter; chronic 
underemployment or long-continued un- 
employment; industrial accident; a father 
with motherless children; and an umnarried 
mother. 

Social case work is defined by Miss 
Richmond as consisting in those processes 
which develop personality through adjust- 
ments consciously effected, individual by 
individual, between men and their social 
environment. This requires in the skiUed 
case worker the combination of four quali- 
ties: insight into individuality and personal 
characteristics; insight into resources, dan- 
gers, and influence of social environment; 
direct action of mind upon mind; and direct 
action through the social environment. 
The emphasis is not at all upon relief but 
upon the development of personality. 
Relief is considered as but one of the items 
of secondary consideration in the larger 
program. 

The author devotes one chapter to a 
discussion of the relation of the social case 



worker to the home, as the seat of certain 
potential sources of strength and probable 
sources of weakness. She suggests the 
dangers inherent in the substitution of 
specialists for the home, because, "speaking 
broadly, children do not prosper without 
fathers and mothers who love them and love 
one another." She emphasizes the need 
for an intelligent understanding of the laws 
defining the relationship of husband and 
wife, in order that good case work may be 
done in this field. 

In other chapters the author outlines the 
relation of the case worker to the school, the 
workshop, the hospital, and the court, 
stating that no one of the organized forms of 
social life can be studied save against the 
background of aU the others. Group 
work, social reform, and social research, 
which interplay with social work, are dis- 
cussed. The relationship of social work 
to social research and to social reform is 
set forth. The service which social work 
can render in the field of public administra- 
tion also has place in the book. 

The work is rich in illustrative material. 
It shows catholic reading in many fields, 
including sociology, philosphy, and psychol- 
ogy. Many good side lights are given on 
social work, which it is difficult to refrain 
from quoting. Pertinent suggestions, thrown 
out almost as an aside in many cases, form 
some of the most valuable material in the 
book. 

MoLLiE Ray Cakroll, 

SociaiScience Department, Gaucher College. 

Personal Hygiene. By Maotuce Le Bos- 
QtTET. Chicago: American School of 
Home Economics, 1921, pp. 224. Sl-OO. 
The aim of this text-book is the "preserva- 
tion and improvement of health." Again 
and again the author stresses the idea 
that "the time, strength, and money used 
for the improvement of health are not taken 
from greater or more necessary things, but 
that health is a fundamental necessity." 
Of course we all know this in a general way, 
but do not many of the appurtenances of 
our civilization compel unhygienic living 
unless special attention is focused on 'health 



1922] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



291 



first?" This is what Mr. Le Bosquet b 
attempting — to make us really believe that 
health comes first. 

The text is di\ided into three parts. 
Part 1 deals with the Human Machine and 
contains brief descriptions of the structure 
of the muscles, the skin, and the sense 
organs. Part 2, the Running of the Ma- 
chine, takes up the work of the body as an 
energj' transformer. There are paragraphs 
giving the essential principles of digestion, 
nutrition, circulation, temperature regula- 
tion, and waste elimination. These make 
the foundation for Part 3 which discusses 
the Care of the Machine. E-xcellent advice 
b given on such topics as the care of the 
hair, teeth, skin, complexion, the hygiene of 
clothing and shoes, and the hygiene of 
fatigue, rest, and muscular activity. 

A whole chapter is devoted to the hygiene 
of physical exercise. It is estimated that in 
the last twenty-five years the amount of 
muscular work done by people in the 
United States has decreased about seventy- 
five per cent. Hence there is no principle 
in hygiene better established than that 
considerable muscular activity is necessary 
to counteract the evil effects of sedentary 
life. This means for most of us, definitely 
planned exercise. For the best hj-gienic 
results, thb exercise must involve a maxi- 
mum amount of muscular work and a 
minimum of nervous energy, must be taken 
daily, must be vigorous, r>'thmic rather than 
sustained, enjoyable and taken in the open 
air. Therefore out-of-door fads are fine 
hygienic measures. The study of birds, 
geology, amateur photography, and the 
like; games — golf, tennis, rowing, bicycling, 
riding, swimming, walking, are good fun and 
good hygiene. A set of formal exercises 
with instructions and illustrations is in- 
cluded. The book closes with a chapter on 
the ethics of health by Dr. Thomas D. Wood 
and one on the use and abuse of drugs by 
Dr. H. M. Lufkin. There are questions 
at the end of the chapters and a short 
bibliography. 

From the viewpoint of interest the book 
lacks a sufficient number of good illustra- 
tions. There are a few confused state- 



ments, doubtless due to brevity of ex- 
pression. The use of one name for a given 
substance rather than two or more, for 
instance, enzjTne, nutrient, protein, would 
improve the text. 

Caroline E. Stackpole, 

Teachers College. 

A History of Industry. By Ellen L. 
Osgood. New York: Ginn and Com- 
pany, 1921, pp. 430. S1.72. 
That economic laws viewed first his- 
torically and then in their present-day 
appUcation will insure the sound judgment 
in public affairs which is expected of Amer- 
ican citizens is the view of EUen L. Osgood 
in this secondary school test, A History of 
Industry. 

The author evidently relies largely upon 
definite knowledge and in'erpretation of 
the history of early industrial periods to 
secure an understanding of the workings of 
economic laws, since more than half of the 
text deals with the history of industry 
previous to the industrial revolution and 
less than one-sixth of it is devoted to the 
periods immediately following the indus- 
trial revolution and the industrial period of 
the latter part of the nineteenth and early 
twentieth centuries. This view is further 
emphasized by the topics for discussion at 
the close of each chapter. These topics 
deal mainly with the subject-matter of the 
chapters and give relatively little attention 
to the contrasts and comparisons which 
would tend to develop an understanding 
of the workings of economic laws under 
present-day conditions. 

The practical difficulties of using a text 
which tends to emphasize one phase of the 
subject, while very real to the teacher who 
is confronted by the time limit of the school 
program, do not overtop the usefulness of 
this text. Periods of industrial develop- 
ment are clearly defined. Characteristics 
are given in a brief and interesting form. 
Economic laws and their relation to the 
industrial development of England and 
continental Europe, as well as colonial and 
modern America are traced through the 
periods. 



292 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

The book has much to recommend it for ^ ^.^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ j^^^^ 

high school purposes as a text to be fol- ,,^,.^^^ „^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^ SlateBoard of 



lowed and as a source book for the instructor 



Administraiion, by Dr. E. H. S. Bailey, 



who teaches by the problem or project p^^f,^^^, ^f Chemistry, University of Kan- 

method. It will also meet a need m the ^^^_ ^^^ ^j^^^j^^^ g^^^^ 3^^^^ ^j jj^^j^j^_ 

vocational schools, technical schools, and ^^^ ^^^^ pubUshed recently. The contents 

the continuation schools though m these ^^^^;^^ ^j ^^^^^.^^ ^j ^j,^ penitentiary, the 

fields of education teachers wiU wish that i^^^^.j^al reformatories, the hospitals for 

this much-needed text might have traced j^^^^^ ^^^ epileptic, and the schools for the 

more definitely and mterpreted more fuUy ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ ^ 

the perplexing and far-reachmg problems of .on^p^rfson of the dietaries of these nine 

division of labor and specializaUon. institutions. The buUetin contains seventy 
Cleo Murtland, 
Cass Technical High School, Delroil. 



pages. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Nutrition 

Almy, L. H., and Field, E. The Preservation of Fish Frozen in Chilled Brine. /. Ind. Eng. 

Chem., 1922, 14:203-206. 
Baer, J. L. Basal Metabolism in Pregnancy and Puerperium. Am. J. Obstet. Gynecol., 

1921,2:249-256. 
Benedict, F. G. Metabolism during Starvation and Undernutrition. iV. F. Med. J., 1922, 

115:249-256. 
Brown, E. W. and Bosworth, A. W. Studies in Infant Feeding XVI. A Bacteriologic Study 

of the Feces and the Food of Normal Babies Receiving Breast Milk. Am. J. Dis- 
eases Childroi, 1922, 23:243-258. 
Calvin, J. K. and Borovsky, M. P. Results Following the Administration of Alkali Phos- 
phates to Spasmophilic, Rachitic, and Normal Infants. Am. J. Diseases Children, 

1922,23:238-242. 
Chick, H. and Dalyell, E. J. Influence of Foods Rich in Accessory Factors in Stimulating 

Development in Backward Children. Brit. Med. J., 1921, 2: 1061-1066. 
De Sanctis, A. G. Egg Yolk m Infant Feeding. Arch. Fed., 1922, 39: 104-106. 
Donnelly, W. H., Prevention and Treatment of Undernourishment in Childhood. A'. Y. 

Stale J. Med. ,1922, 22:59-61. 
Eckman, P. F. The Antiscorbutic Value of Dehydrated Fruits. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 

78: 635, 636. 
Emerson, P. W. The Collection and the Preservation of Human Milk. /. Am. Med. 

Assoc, 1922,78:641,642. 
Evans, H. M. and Bishop, C. S. On the Relation between Fertility and Nutrition. /. 

Metabolic Research, 1922, 1: 319-333. 
Folin, O. and Berglund, H. Some New Observations and Interpretations with Reference to 

Transportation, Retention and Excretion of Carbohydrates. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 

51:213-273. 
Foster, D. L. and Moyle, D. M., A Contribution to the Study of the Interconversion of 

Carbohydrate and Lactic Acid in Muscle. Biochem. J., 1921, IS: 672-680 
Givens, M. H., McClugage, H. B., and Van Home, E. G. The Antiscorbutic Property of 

Fruits. II. An Experimental Study of Apples and Bananas. Am. J. Diseases Children, 

1922,23: 210-225. 



1922] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 293 

Gray, H. and Edmonds, G. H. Indices of the State of Nutrition in Children, Am. J. Diseases 

Children, 1922, 23: 226-237. 
Hess, A. F. The Prevention and Cure of Rickets by Sunlight. Am. J. Public Health, 

1922, 12: 104-107. 
Hewitt, J. A. and De Souza, D. H. The Metabolism of Carbohydrates. Biochem. J., 

1921, 15: 667-671. 

Hill, R. M. and Lewis, H. B. The Hydrolysis of Sucrose in the Human Stomach, Am. J. 

Physiol, 1922, 59: 413^20. 
Houghton, H. A. The treatment of Arterial Hj^pertension with Low Sodium Chloride 

Dietary. Med. Rec, 1922, 101: 441-446. 
Hunter, A. C. Sources and Characteristics of Bacteria in Decomposing Salmon. J. Bad., 

1922, 7: 85-110. 

Jones, D. B., Finks, .\. J., and Gersdorff, C. E. F. A Chemical Study of the Proteins of the 

Adsuki Bean, /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 51: 103-114. 
Langworthy, C. F. and Barolt, H. G. Energy Expenditure in Sewing. Am. J. Physiol., 1922, 

59: 376-380. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Busby, H. S.: Fundamentals of Color Research for Textiles. Textile World, 1922, 61: 654, 

855, 857. 
Cherrington, P. T.: Fallacies of Fabric Branding Bill. Textile World, 1922, 61: 1244. 
Coad, B. R.: Chemical Warfare Will Control Boll Weevil. Textile World, 1922, 61: 651, 

857, 859. 
Cook, O. F., and Taylor, W. A.: Improvements in Cotton Growing. Textile World, 1922, 

61: 649, 713, 715,716, 721. 
Dale, S. S., and Cherrington, P. T.: For and ."Vgainst Ad Valorem Wool Duties. Textile 

World, 1922, 61: 646, 747, 749. 
Darby, W. D.: Silk the Queen of Fabrics. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4048: 37, 130; 4049: 

33; 4050:41, 43; 4051:27,29. 
Douche, C: Dyeing Wool in Cold Baths. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 105, 106. 
Edwards, W. F.: Examination of Raw Silk. Textile World, 1922, 61: 1153, 1155, 1157. 
Fossick, G. L.: Causes of Reduced Cotton Production. Textile World, l^ll, 61: 662, 723. 
Goldthwait, C. F.: Starting TextUe Research, Textile World, 1922, 61: 755. 
Hennings, C. R.: Wool Rendered Moth Proof by Means of Eulan-F. Textile Colorist, 1922, 

44: 91, 92. 
Herty, C. H.: Possibilities of Organic Chemical .Association. Textile World, 1922, 61: 853. 
Lawlor, D. J.: Birthplace of Cotton Industry to be Museum. Textile World, 1922, 61: 

647, 671, 673. 
Macara, C. W.: World Cotton Trade and Its Future. Textile World, 1922, 61; 1031, 1036. 
McCuen, D. E.: Buying Cotton on "Call". Textile World, 1922, 61 : 696, 983. 
Malcomb, D. L.: A Trip Through a Flax Mill. Textile World, 1922, 20: 11, 30, 34. 
Mayer, M. M.: The MaHcious Jloth. Good Housekeeping. Mar. 1922, 74: 75, 170. 
Maynard, L.: Egyptian Cotton Costs. Textile World, 1922, 61: 679, 723. 
Meadows, W. R., and Pr>'or, W. L.: Egyptian Cotton from Field to Dock. Textile World, 

1922,61: 650,675,677,679. 
Mell, C. D.: Interesting Dyestuff Plants. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 107-111. 
Slater, W. K.: Textile Chemist's Duties. Textiles, Mar. 1922, 20: 27. 
Strouse, S.: Shoe Fitting Becomes a Science. Nation's Health, Feb. 1922, 4: 69. 
Tiger, H. L.: Development in Water Purification. TextUe World, 1922, 61 : 893, 895, 959. 
Todd, J. A.: The World's Cotton Crops in 1921. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 648, 673, 675. 
Truesdale, R., and Hayes, C: Use of X-rays in the Examination of Textiles. Textile World, 

1922,61: 653, 863. 



294 THE JOtJRKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

Walen, E. D.: Application of Photography to Textile Research. Textile World, 1922, 61: 

652, 795, 797. 
Yang, S. Z.: The Cotton Yam Market in China. TexlUe World, 1922, 61: 1127, 1174. 

Analysis of Census of Textiles Manufactures 1919. Textile World, 1922, 6:644, 645, 

791, 799, 801. 

Analyzing Wool Fabrics. Posselt's Textile J., 1922, 30: 11, 12. 

Artificial Silk Doubled in 1921. Textile World, 61: 661, 793. 

British Wool Textile Trade in 1921. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 743, 745. 

Comparison of TextUe Trade Statistics. Textile World, 1922, 61: 949-951. 

Dye Manufacturers Face a Merchandising Problem. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 847-849. 

Electrical Picking of Cotton. r(!x/;7«, Mar. 1922, 20: 12. 

Hearings on Dye Charges Begin in Washington. Textile World, 1922, 61: 1239, 1245. 

Influence of Moisture in Vegetable Fibres. Fosselt's Textile J., 1922, 30: 17. 

Knowing WTiat to Expect from Dyes Means Much to Retailers. Dry Goods Econ., 

1922, No. 4051: 87. 

Moir^ing of Silk Fabrics. Posselt's Textile J., 1922, 30: 1, 2. 

Radical Fluctuations in Cotton Goods Market. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 665 666. 

Rout in Wools Turns into Strong Advance. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 771, 773, 775. 

Silk Prices Have Active Spring but Quiet Fall. Textile World, 1922, 61: 827, 829. 

To Save You Two Dollars or More at Housecleaning Time. Ladies Home J., Mar. 

1922, 39: 87. 

Unexpected Changes Feature Worsted Yams. Textile World, 1922, 61: 759, 761. 

Yam Prices Follow Cotton Fluctuations Closely. Textile World, 1922, 61: 701, 703, 

705. 

Year of Ups and Downs in Men's Wear. Textile World, 1922, 61: 741, 742. 

Miscellaneous 

Beard, J. J.: Progress of Public Health Work. Sci. Mo., 1922, 14: 140-152. 

Cortwright, E. E.: A Comprehensive Health Program for Public Elementary Schools, Its 

Necessity and Scope. Ediic, 1922, 42: 325-338. 
Czochralski, J.: Blackening of Aluminum Cooking Dishes. Z. MelaUkunde, 1920, 12: 

44V443, Abstract, Chem. Abs., 1922, 16: 4 
Gerhard, William P.: Fundamentals of Economical Plumbing. (Suggestions made in 

June, 1921, to Secretary Hoover's National Building Code Committee in the interest of 

tlie betterment of the housing situation.) Am. Architect and Architectural Rev., Dec. 

21, 1921, p. 482-486. 
Hall, O.: Hospital Training of Dietitians at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. Mod. Hosp., 

1922, 18: 162, 163. 
Horn, E.: Criteria for Judging the Project Method. Educ. Rev., 1922, 63: 93-101. 
McCall, W. A., and Huestis, B. L.: Mental and Physical Effects of Fresh Air. Sci., Mo, 

1922, 14: 131-139. 
Michael, M.: Resum^ of Literature (1920) on Tuberculosis in Children. Am. J. Diseases 

Children, 1922, 23: 146-182. 
Udden, J, A.: Research Funds in the United States. Science, 1922, N, S. 55: 51, 52. 

The Extent of Home Economics Educadon. School and Society, 1922, 15: 89. 

The Thirty-fifth Convention of Land Grant CoUeges. Expt. Sta. Rec., 1921, 45: 

701-712. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

FIFTEENTH ANXtlAL MEETING, CORVALLIS, AUGUST 1-5 

The first session of the Convention will be held at 2 o'clock Tuesday, August 1. The 
address of welcome by the president will be followed by a Council meeting open to all 
members of the Association. Section meetings vd]l be held each morning as follows: 

Wednesday: Clothing and Textiles, House Administration, Home Economics Education, 
Business and Professional Women. 

Thursday-: Food and Nutrition, Home Economics Education, Institutional Economics, 
Extension. 

Friday: Institutional Economics, Clothing and Textiles, Science, Homemakers. 

Saturday: Food and Nutrition, Extension, House Administration. 

The afternoons will be given over to conferences, committee meetings, automobile trips, 
golf, swimming, horseback riding, tennis, and informal teas. General sessions have been 
planned for every evening, with speakers of national reputation. 

The following organizations will send representatives: Children's Bureau, Women's 
Bureau, National League of Women Voters, American Red Cross, General Federation of 
Women's Clubs, Public Health Service, National Research Council, National Consumer's 
League, Child Health Organization. 

The preliminary program for the Convention will appear in the July issue of the Journal. 

THE HOME ECONOMICS SPECIAL 

A very attractive itinerary has been printed giving in detail the arrangements made by 
the Transportation Committee with the Burlington (C. B. & Q.) and Great Northern 
Railways, for the operation of a Home Economics de luxe special train to Portland, Ore., 
leaving Chicago via the Burlington Railroad at 10:10 a.m. July 26, arriving St. Paul 10:10 
p.m. same day. 

Leaving St. Paul at 10:45 p.m., our Special train arrives Glacier National Park at 8:00 
a.m. July 28th. Two days and one night will be spent within its borders, motoring and 
launching. The schedule from Glacier Park will be as follows: 

Leave Glacier Park, 8:00 p.m., July 29th, arrive Seattle, 8:00 p.m. July 30th; Leave 
Seattle, 11:59 p.m., July 30th, arrive Portland, 7:20 a.m. July 31st. 

The Transportation Committee has arranged the schedule so as to arrive at Portland 
the morning of July 31. This will enable the members of our party to enjoy a thorough 
rest, visit the many points of interest, and acquaint themselves with the metropolis of the 
Puget Sound country — Portland — before the opening of the meeting on Tuesday at Corvallis. 

The entire trip is being operated at actual expense, as itemized below: 

Summer tourist round trip fare, Chicago to Portland $86 . 00 

Lower berth, one way 24 . 75 

Appro.ximate expense of meals in dining car enroute to Seattle 12.00 

Complete two-day tour in Glacier Park 26.25 

Total S149.00 

For reservation on this special train, or further information, kindly communicate with 
Nina Streeter, Chairman Travel Committee, 1370 E. 54th Street, Chicago. 

The final date for making reservations is June 20th. This cannot be extended. The Trans- 
portation Conmiittee must advise the railroad companies as to the number of cars required 
for our party. Take care of your reservations — now — please. 

Reservations for accommodations during the convention should be made with the Director 
of Dormitories, Oregon Agricultural College, CorvaUis, Oregon, at as early a date as possible. 

295 



296 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

THE FOREIGN FIELD 

China. The following are extracts from a letter to the Journal from Emma H. Gunther, 
written from Canton Christian College. Miss Gunther and Miss Balderston are lecturing 
and studying the educational work in China : 

"True Light Middle School is a well organized high school for girls with adequate build- 
ings, a delightful campus, and an especially strong staff. They have begun their work in 
household economics with emphasis just now on nutrition and Chinese foods, a course in 
housewifery, and also one in household budgets. They have good opportunity for the de- 
velopment of this work with a chance for a separate building next year; with a teacher who has 
had household arts training for four years at Teachers College; and best of all with the interest 
in home economics already established. It has been a great delight to plan their courses 
with them and to anticipate the work of the next five or ten years. 

"In cooperation with the Y. W. C. A., we have met a group of about twenty coUege women 
whose lines of work link up directly or indirectly with the home. We had a group conference 
and discussed the possibility of a composite course for groups of wealthy Chinese women who 
have asked for such classes. The plan suggested was that each of these women should con- 
tribute a lecture or two and then later aim toward work that is not specialized. For instance, 
one from Hackett Medical College will give the special baby care and baby food; another 
who is here at the college and cooperates with the U. S. Department of Agriculture will demon- 
strate Chinese foods; another who has had excellent experience in building Chinese homes 
will talk on the finishing of wood work and floors necessary in this climate and on certain 
household equipment, especially Chinese stoves; another has had training and experience in 
care of the sick and special diet. 

"We are now at the Canton Christian College, a most interesting school with an enrollment 
of 500 girls. I have just finished a conference with Mr. Graybill, member of the recent Educa- 
tional Commission studying schools. Miss Balderston in turn is keeping busy, now having 
conferences with a man who is especially interested in soap industry in the chemistry depart- 
ment, and now conducting a series of three demonstrations with the wives of the faculty and 
some Chinese women. 

"I thought you might like to know that one of the first magazines which I picked up in 
the library here was the Journ.^l of Home Economics." 

India. The following is part of a letter from M. U. Almaula, principal of the Womans 
CoUege at Ahmedabad, India, and formerly associated with Mrs. Strong. 

"You will be glad to know that I have been able to popularize home economics to some 
extent and many have begun to take interest in the work. I have to present the subject 
in the vernacular, viz. Gujerati. 

"It will not be out of place to inform you that we are conservative by nature and it takes 
time to make innovations. Our kitchen is simple, utensils few, and furniture conspicuous by 
its absence. The whole of cooking is done in the sitting posture; spreading the table is not 
literally correct with us. The food is served out in tinned brass vessels — dishes and bowls, — 
and partaken sitting on wooden planks with legs crossed and without the aid of forks, knives, 
or spoons. Some place their dishes on a low stool about a foot high. Tinned articles of 
food are seldom, if ever, used. 

"The Hindu is a staunch vegetarian and it is no wonder if many have not handled, nay 
touched, an egg. His food is mainly starch consisting of wheat or such other cereal, bread, 
boiled rice, some pulse, and vegetables. The thin and round bread, without any leavening 
agent, is prepared by the quick oven process and the food is prepared and consumed daily. 
We have our menus, ordinary and occasional, the latter varying with the seasons. 

"From the Joiirnal I learned of Mrs. Norton's interesting experiences in Constantinople." 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



297 



The Alabama State Home Economics 
Association met in Birmingham, April 
13 and 14, 1922 with the following pro- 
gram: General meeting — Prevention of 
Blindness, Dr. Carris; Opportunities for 
Home Economics Workers, Dr. Benjamin 
Andrews of Columbia University. Group 
meetings— Homemakers, Institutional, Home 
Demonstration, Home Economics Teachers. 
Subjects of special interest to each group 
were presented by Alabama home economics 
workers. 

At the business meeting it was decided 
to affiliate with the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association. The following officers 
were elected for the coming year: President, 
Mrs. Mamie Thorington, Montgomery; 
Vice-President, Helen Green, Auburn; 
Secretary and Treasurer, Jamie Henry, 
Ramer. 



Six lots of white rats, three rats in each 
lot, each lot the same weight and age, four 
weeks old, were fed the following diets: 
I, white bread and cow's fresh milk; II, 
white bread and goat's fresh milk; III, 
white bread and coffee (very little condensed 
milk added); IV, white bread and lean 
beef (cooked); V, white bread and distilled 
water; VI, a control diet consisting of two- 
thirds whole wheat flour and one-third 
powdered milk and 2 per cent of the flour 
in NaCl. 

Weekly records were kept over a period 
of thirteen weeks. Photographs were taken 
of individual rats. The striking differences 
in the size and appearance of each lot made 
a great impression on the health class of 
children conducted by the senior class in 
dietetics. In addresses before the Woman's 
Clubs and other groups of people this illus- 
tration of the influence of diet on growth 
proved most effective. 



The University of Arizona. The class 
in food economics in the University recently 
conducted a food forum to which housewives 
were invited. Practical food problems were 
discussed; short reports of investigations, 
illustrated by exhibits and charts, were 
presented by members of the class. Time 
was allowed for questions and e.xpression 
of opinions after each talk. The topics of 
the forum were: Judging Quality and Value 
of Eggs Bought in Tucson. ShaU we Buy 
Package or Bulk Food? How Many Brands 
and Grades of Canned Goods is your Gro- 
cer Required to Carry? Some Unusual 
Cuts of Meat and Their Uses; What Kind 
of Milk Do you Buy? WTiy? The Im- 
portance of Knowing Varieties, Kinds, and 
Quality of .\pples for Household Purposes. 
How is the Bread You Buy Made? Some 
Ten-Cent Lunches and Some Fifteen-Cent 
Dinners. 

To show the value of simple animal feeding 
experiments for the use of home demonstra- 
tion agents, for popular public addresses 
on food, and for health-class teaching, cer- 
tain feeding e.xperiments were conducted 
in the Home Economics Department. 



CALIFOR-NIA 

An excellent state report of the Califor- 
nia Home Economics Association has 
been prepared by Essie L. Elliott, first 
president of the Association under the new 
regional plan. It includes the regional 
plan and national budget, financial report, 
state reports by sections, recommendations, 
proposed amendments to the state consti- 
tution, a list of officers, and a notice of the 
summer meeting of the A. H. E. A. at 
Corvallis. This report is on file in the A. 
H. E. A. Office, and will be loaned to any 
of the newly affiliated states desiring sug- 
gestions in the preparation of a similar 
report. California has affiliated, with a 
membership of 210, and has pledged S6S0 
to the Executive Secretary Fund. The 
-Association has three sections, each one 
having a representative on the state council 
which met in Berkeley, April 13 and 14. 

Part of the work for the present year has 
been the making of a scale for measuring 
achievement in home economics instruc- 
tion, under the chairmanship of Agnes 
Fay Morgan of the University of Califor- 
nia. After further evaluation of these tests 
it is planned to publish them. The officers 



298 



THE JOUILNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



for 1922-23 are Bertha Prentiss, supervisor 
of home economics in Berkeley schools, 
president; Florence M. LaGanke, super- 
visor in Oakland schools, secretary-treasurer. 
The Central Section of the association 
met April 5 and sent resolutions to the 
State Superintendent of Public Instruction 
and the State Commissioner of Secondary 
Education, embodying their stand for a 
minimum of one unit of food and one unit 
of clothing for graduation from a high school 
maintaining a department of home eco- 
nomics. They further urged, for the encour- 
agement of the profession of teaching, that 
advanced study and professional training 
be compensated proportionately to the 
training. 



Florida State College For Women. 
The State Board of Health and the Home 
Demonstration Division are launching a 
cooperative piece of child welfare work. 
A nurse, sent out by the State Board of 
Health, superintends the weighing and 
measuring and holds a preliminary examina- 
tion. Children who are sufficiently under- 
weight to need special attention are examined 
before the mother, by a doctor from the 
State Board of Health and the nutrition 
specialist from the Home Demonstration 
division. The nutrition specialist advises 
on the diet, rest, work, and play, and gives 
the mothers a series of lessons on nutrition. 



The Series of Movable Schools held 
in nearly every section of Idaho during the 
past two months have been characterized 
by large attendances and marked interest 
on the part of farmers and their wives. 
In one small town, in spite of inclement 
weather and bad roads, there was an aggre- 
gate attendance of 4600 at the three day 
session. It was the purpose of the Univer- 
sity administration to create in the State 
a greater confidence in the future of Idaho 
agriculture and to assist the farmers in 
formulating their plans in the direction of a 
permanent and successful farm operation. 
In addition to representatives of the teaching 
force, experiment station staff, and exten- 



sion service, prominent bankers and business- 
men of the State, representatives of the 
Union Pacific Railroad Company, A. H. 
Upham, President of the University, and 
E. J. Iddings, Dean of the College of Agri- 
culture, took part in the program. 

The special programs for the women were 
made up of subject matter talks on Better 
Homes for Idaho, Women as an Economic 
Factor in the Home, Home Conveniences, 
Short Cuts in the Kitchen, The Family 
Dietary, Child Feeding, and Garment Con- 
struction. The speakers for the women's 
section were Katherine Jensen, Head of the 
Home Economics Department, Amy KeUy, 
State Leader of Home Demonstration 
Agents, and Wilhelmina Jacobson, Ex- 
tension Clothing Specialist. 



WTien the Home Bureau was organized 
in McLean County, in 1918, a survey was 
made to find out the number of children 
in the county who were drinking coffee and 
tea and the number drinking milk. The 
cards were sent to the grade teachers of 
all the schools both rural and town with 
the exception of the two cities, Bloomington 
and Normal. The reports from 3139 
showed 43 per cent drinking coffee or tea 
every day, 19 per cent no tea or coffee; 
from 4069, 34 per cent drinking milk every 
day, 21 per cent no milk. 

After three years of work in the county 
against the use of coffee and tea for children 
and advising the use of milk, a second sur- 
vey was taken. In the towns 1728 reported 
10 per cent drinking coffee or tea every day, 
52 per cent no cotlee or tea; 50 per cent drink- 
ing milk every day, 10 per cent no milk. 
In the coimtry 3428 reported 14 per cent 
for coffee or tea every day, 44 per cent no 
coffee or tea; 3424 reported 61 per cent for 
milk every day, 1 1 per cent no milk. 

During this time the "Hot Lunch in 
the Schools" project has been worked. 
When the work was begun six schools out 
of the 251 had served hot lunches; at the 
end of the first year 42 schools served, 
second year 103, third year 105, fourth 
year 107. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



299 



Iowa State College. Miss Walls, 
Acting Dean of Home Economics, has es- 
tablished a series of Get Together Dinners 
for the division faculty and the members 
of other faculties who attend the monthly 
meetings. These are prepared and served 
by the Institutional Foods Classes in the 
Campus Tea Room. 

Several of the home economics faculty 
are assisting in the Annual International 
Night presented by the foreign student 
members of the Cosmopolitan Club. 

There is a senior elective in clothing in 
which design is applied to the making of 
childrens' clothes, not children in the ab- 
stract but actual nieces and nephews or 
friends. The clothing for a little red headed 
girl was an interesting problem. 

The students in advanced dietetics are 
fortunate in having the opportunity to co- 
operate ^-ith the Red Cross nurse in the 
work with classes of imdenveight children 
in three of the public schools. These child- 
ren are given one-half hour of instruction 
in diet and general health rules, weekly. 
The children of one group receive a pint of 
milk daily; in another small group they 
receive orange juice as well as milk. The 
records thus far show a gain in weight of 
250 per cent of the expected gain in the 
group receiving orange juice and milk, 143 
per cent of the expected gain in the group 
receiving milk, as compared with 117 per 
cent of e.xpected gain in the group receiving 
instruction only. 

The class is also making a study of the 
dietary habits of several Freshmen girls 
who are underweight. With the coopera- 
tion of the Hygiene, Ph)^ical Education, 
and Nutrition Departments, an effort is 
being made to improve the physical con- 
ditions of these students. 

Story County Farm Men and Women 
were guests of Iowa State College on April 
3. They discussed progress of county-wide 
projects with extension specialists. The 
clothing project leaders reported progress 
in their own townships, and were assisted 
by extension specialists in mapping out fu- 
ture work. The Farm Bureau women are 



doing an excellent piece of work in carr>'ing 
out tlie clothing project which was written 
by their own committee. The outline of 
this project is on file in the Journal Office 
and will be loaned on receipt of 10 cents 
in stamps. 

LOUISIANA 

The Louisiana Home Economics Associ- 
ation held a two day session AprU 7 and 8, 
uith a full program in which many local 
and general home economics problems were 
discussed by state workers. Edna N. 
WTiite of the Merrill Palmer School, De- 
troit, spoke on Co-operative Agencies and 
Methods Used in Promoting Home Eco- 
nomics Education, and also presented some 
very helpful material on nutrition. 

The Association voted to affiiliate T\ith 
the .American Home Economics .Association. 
The present membership is 101, but it is 
hoped to increase the number so that Louisi- 
ana will "top" the list in the Southern 
States. The officers elected are: President, 
Cleora C. Helbing, Baton Rouge; \'ice- 
President, Miimie Lee Odom, De Quincy; 
Secretary-Treasurer, Flavia Gleason, Baton 
Rouge. 

NEBRASKA 

The Nebraska Home Economics Asso- 
ciation was organized last fall and decided 
to affiliated with the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association. An all day session was 
held at which Helen Goodspeed of Wiscon- 
sin was the chief speaker. The following 
officers were elected: President, Margaret 
Fedde, Chairman Department Home Eco- 
nomics, University of Nebraska; Vice-presi- 
dent, Ethel Debell, Chadron State Normal 
College; Secretary, Ethel Cline, Omaha 
High School of Commerce; Treasurer, Belle 
Mayer, Alvo High School. 

University of Nebraska. An annual 
event in the College of Agriculture, is the 
Farmers Fair which was held this year on 
May 6th. A playlet pageant was presented 
by the women in the Home Economics 
Department, and demonstrations were given 
in all the departments. 

The students in the Child Nutrition Course 
are doing case work with malnourished grade 



300 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



school children. Most of the children come 
from abnormal homes, and cooperation 
has been established with the Social Wel- 
fare Organization and the Juvenile Court 
of the city. Progress is slow but the re- 
sults are gratifying. In another year we 
hope to add a group of pre-school children 
and their mothers. 

An added responsibility and joy of the 
students living in the Home Management 
House is Kathryn Marie, their very young 
charge. She was five months old when she 
came into this household very much in need 
of intelligent care. She is now ten months 
old, robust, active, and happy, convincing 
those who were doubtful of the results of 
this experiment. 

Leaders' Training Groups in the making 
of dress forms, sewing machine attachments, 
dress construction, and millinery work have 
been held in several counties by Miss Legg 
and Miss Harris, clothing and millinery 
specialists of the Extension Service, College 
of Agriculture. The delegates to these 
schools later hold similar demonstrations in 
their own communities. This is proving to 
be a successful way of developing local 
leadership and spreading better clothing 
instruction. 

Miss Atwood, nutrition specialist, is doing 
nutrition work in hot school lunch and nu- 
trition classes with county Red Cross nurses. 
A canning budget project is being prepared 
for various counties. 

Mary Ellen Brown, Assistant Boys and 
Girls Club Leader, and Miss Murphy, Home 
Health and Hygiene Specialist, are trying 
out a set of Keep Well Club" problems in 
six clubs. Daily Health Habits are en- 
couraged by a special record book, and dem- 
onstrations and exercises are practiced. 

Miss Murphy is holding Child Welfare 
Conferences in some communities where 
there is no resident county nurse. The 
local doctors give their services and many 
mothers and babies are reached. 

Nebraska Wesleyan University, a de- 
nominational College, lays special emphasis 
upon the training of students for the Minis- 
try, missionary activities, and social service 
work. The Home Economics Department 
at present has ninety-two students en- 



rolled, a number of whom are preparing 
themselves for some definite line of Chris- 
tian service. They are electing such courses 
as dressmaking, millinery, house furnishing, 
and food study, as part of the necessary 
preparation for the practical side of their 
social service work. 

NEW ENGLAND 

The New England Home Economics 
Association met on Saturday, March 
11, at the Boston Public Library Lecture 
Hall. The Dietitians' Section had charge 
of the meeting and centered the program 
around foreign food customs. Bertha M. 
Wood of the Food Clinic of the Boston Dis- 
pensary spoke on "A Study of Racial Cus- 
toms in Diet." There was an exhibit of 
foods and kitchen utensils of foreign bom 
people. 

A week later the Teachers' Section directed 
a special meeting where Helen Bridge spoke 
on "Methods of Teaching the Division of 
the Family Income." 

The association is actively campaigning 
for a one hundred per cent member- 
ship in the American Home Economics 
Association. 

The Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology Women's Association held a tea 
March the tenth. Professor Samuel C. 
Prescott spoke on "How to Make Coflfee." 

The Graduate School Of Education 
of Harvard University is ready to offer a 
course in the Administration of Home Eco- 
nomics Education in the summer session, 
July 10-August 19, if there are enough 
students who apply for it. This course wiU 
be designed to meet the needs of superin- 
tendents, principals, home economics super- 
visors and teachers, and all others who are 
interested in studying this important phase 
of women's education. 

A second course for home economics 
teachers may be offered if the demand war- 
rants. This would cover detailed studies 
of special phases of Home Economics educa- 
tion, such as: methods of teaching the 
division of family income, related art in 
the home economics program, job analyses 
of home management, and the teaching of 
child care and development. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



301 



Notification of your desire to enroll should 
be sent promptly to Dean H. W. Holmes, 
Lawrence Hall, Harvard University, Cam- 
bridge 38, Massachusetts. 

NEW MEXICO 

The Circuit Plan Of Vocational 
Home Economics is proving beneficial 
to two of the counties of New Mexico. By 
this arrangement several smaU rural schools, 
otherwise unable to proNnde instruction 
along this line, are enabled to offer a course 
in homemaking, taught by a competent 
instructor. 

One of the circuits has five schools; the 
other four. The teacher spends an entire 
day each week with each school, giving 
instruction in actual practice. Supple- 
mentary work is given the other four days 
of the week by the regular teacher in charge. 

Service is the keynote of all the work. 
Many of the girls are of Mexican descent 
and the instruction given must be fitted 
to their own particular needs. Work as 
taught in the average high school would be 
practically valueless to them, because they 
could not apply it to their home life. The 
clothing made is of the simplest, most 
practical type. In some cases the girls 
would have been unable to attend school were 
it not for the dresses of unbleached muslin 
made by themselves under the instruction 
of the teacher. In one school aprons were 
made from flour sacks, attractively bound 
and appUquM in colors. The instruction in 
cooking emphasizes such vegetables, fruits, 
and meats as are available. 

Equipment is elementary, and funds 
for maintenance of the work are scarce; 
but the communities are realizing the value 
of the instruction and Parent-Teacher 
Associations have donated funds for cook- 
ing supplies. The girls have given enter- 
tainments to procure money for a sewing 
machine. 

The Home Economics Department of 
Albuquerque High School has purchased 
a new hemstitching machine. A charge 
of five cents a yard will be made until the 
machine is paid for. Thereafter, its services 
will be free to the students of the department. 



Millinery Clubs have been established 
through the cooperation of Miss Neiman, 
instructor of domestic art of the New Mexico 
A. & M. College, and the county home demon- 
stration agent. Courses of instruction are 
given in the making and remodelling of 
hats. 

NEW YORK 

Teachers College. The departments of 
nutrition and physiological chemistry of 
Teachers College have received a grant of 
$2000 from the Fleischmann Company for a 
study of breads from the nutritional and 
vitamine standpoint. Louise Kipp has been 
appointed on this grant as special assistant. 

The department of physiological chemistry 
is participating in the work on rickets which 
is being developed by the department of 
pathology of Columbia University. It has 
been assigned the task of determining the 
relative efficiency of some of the sources of 
phosphorus as they appear in ordinary 
diets. Results to date show that phosphorus 
in the form of phytin is only half as efficient 
as phosphorus in inorganic combinations. 

The departments of physiological chem- 
istry and of cookery are cooperating on a 
series of studies, which have shown to date 
that cooked cabbage suffers a very serious 
loss of scurvy protection power as a result 
of cooking. 

The results reported by Dr. Eddy are 
published in the Proceedings of the Society 
for Experimental Biology and Medicine. 

NORTH CAROLINA 

The State Home Economics Associa- 
tion meeting was held in Greensboro, 
March 24th and 2Sth. The president, 
Eunice Chaplin of the Durham High School, 
presided. The Association voted unani- 
mously to accept the new plan of affiliation, 
and to increase the state dues in order to 
have at least one out-of-state speaker at 
the annual meetings. Three sectional meet- 
ings were held: Homemakers and Exten- 
sion Section, Mrs. Jane S. McKimmon, 
State Home Demonstration Agent, pre- 
siding; Institutional Section, Hope Coolidge, 
Dietitian at North Carolina College for 



302 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



Women, presiding; Teachers Section, Blanche 
Shaffer, Dean of Home Economics, North 
Carolina College for Women, presiding. 

Friday evening the conference was enter- 
tained at a banquet at the North Carolina 
College for Women. Dr. Benjamin R. 
Andrews of the Home Economics Depart- 
ment of Teachers College, Colombia Uni- 
versity, spoke at the general session on 
Home and Our Ideals in Regard to the 
Home, and MoUie Peterson of the North 
Carolina College for Women gave a talk 
on the Psychology of Dress. 

The following officers were elected for 
the coming year: President, Mrs. Warren 
H. Booker of Queens College, Charlotte; 
Vice-President, Louise Moore of the San- 
ford High School; Secretary and Treasurer, 
Mrs. Ola Wells, County Home Demonstra- 
tion Agent, Greensboro; State Councilor, 
Blanche Shaffer, Dean of School of Home 
Economics, North Carolina College for 
Women. 

The Vocational Home Economics 
Teachers met on the day preceding the 
State Home Economics Association meet- 
ing. The State course of study was the 
main topic imder discussion; after a years 
trial the necessary revisions and adjust- 
ments were discussed and plans made to 
publish it before the beginning of the next 
school year. Dr. L. B. McBrayer, Direc- 
tor of Bureau of Tuberculosis, State Board 
of Health, was present at this meeting and 
talked on Malnutrition of School ChUdren 
in North Carolina. A number of home 
economics teachers reported on their plans 
for linking their class room work in nutri- 
tion with the work of the county health 
nurses by organizing nutrition classes in 
the grades. 



The Ohio Home Economics Association 

held its spring meeting at Columbus, March 
25, the president, Mrs. Blanch B. Bowers, 
presiding. At the morning session Sarah 
J. MacLeod, Home Economics Department, 
Society for Savings, Cleveland, gave a 
practical talk on Budgeting. This was 
followed by a brief business meeting. 



At the afternoon session, Harry H. Howett, 
Division of Charities, Department of Pub- 
Uc Welfare, told of the work the Children's 
Bureau is doing in Ohio and Mrs. Norma 
Selbert of the Department of Medicine, 
Ohio State University, talked on Teaching 
Hygiene to Children. 

The Association has a membership of 
ninety, and the meetings were well attended. 

PENNSYLVANIA 

The report of the Survey of The Pub- 
lic Schools of Philadelphia by Dr. Finegan, 
Superintendent of Public Instruction of 
Peimsylvania, contains the following state- 
ments: 

"Since eight out of every ten girls in 
Philadelphia will take up the vocation of 
homemaking some time in their Uves, no 
educational program is complete that does 
not make adequate provision for the instruc- 
tion of these girls along lines which shall 
fit them for their responsibilities in Ufe. 

"In high schools of the city at the present 
time there are being offered four year cur- 
riculums in home economics. This does 
not meet the needs and there should be 
offered unit year elecdve courses for every 
girl in any curriculum." 

At the meeting of the Philadelphia 
Home Economics Association Saturday, 
April 1, Dr. Walter T. Taggart spoke on 
the Application of Chemistry to Home 
Economics. 



The Tennessee Home Economics 
Association has recently been organized, 
uniting the three sections formerly exist- 
ing in the state. Affiliation with the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association will 
soon be completed. At the last meeting 
the following officers were elected: Presi- 
dent, Mary Gaut; Vice-president, Bessie 
Henderson; Secretary, Mrs. Hattie F. Wen- 
del; Treasurer, Carrie G. Scobey. 

tJTAH 

Project Leader Training. The special 
courses for training project leaders conducted 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



303 



by the State Extension Service of the Utah 
Agricultural College during two weeks in Jan- 
uary mark another mile-stone in the progress 
of extension service n cooperation with 
county and community Farm Bureau 
organizations in the state. 

Forty-two project leaders, representing 
twenty-eight communities and eight coun- 
ties, threw themselves eagerly and enthusi- 
astically into the task of learning to "ex- 
tend extension." Each leader, according 
to project regulations, was sent as a delegate 
by her respective organization. She was 
required to spend full time in concentrated 
work in at least one and not more than two 
projects, and to pledge herself upon her 
return to her community to take the initi- 
ative in the development of definite pro- 
ject activities under the further supervision 
of the state extension specialists and the 
coimty extension agents. 

The Farm Bureau organization paid the 
traveling and living expenses of their leaders. 

The project courses included Food for 
the Family, Infant and Pre-school Child 
Feeding, Clothing for the Family, Costume 
Design, Home Health and Nursing, Farm 
Butter and Cheese Making, Poultry Man- 
agement, Beautification of Home Grounds. 
Recreation programs were provided each 
evening. These included lectures, picture- 
shows, social evenings, community songs, and 
games. 

NATIONAL 

Social Service — A Profession. Social ser- 
vice now has a professional organization in 
the American Association of Social Workers, 
130 East 22nd Street, New York. Between 
fifteen and thirty thousand people in the 
United States are engaged in some kind of 
professional social service. In a draft of 
membership requirements, recently prepared 
by the new Association's Executive Commit- 
tee, nearly forty fields are enumerated in 
which men and women "trained in social 
science and technique are eligible for admis- 
sion." 

To qualify for senior membership accord- 
ing to the proposals of the executive com- 
mittee, one must be at least 25 years of age, 
a college graduate "or have demonstrated 
by practical achievements an equivalent 



educational background," and have had 
four years' experience in social organizations 
of recognized standing. One or two years 
in a training school for social work would 
be equivalent to practical experience for the 
same length of time. Graduate work in 
social science is also made equal to one year 
of practical experience. Provision is made 
for two other classes of members in which 
the standards are less strict than for senior 
members. 

Home Canners' Association. Home 
Economics workers have much in common 
with the Home Canners' .Association which 
recently held its third annual Convention 
at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago. The at- 
tendance was fair, the program was excel- 
lent, and there was a spirit of enthusiasm 
which augurs well for the future of the or- 
ganization. 

The Home Canners' Association is organ- 
ized for the purpose of bringing together 
women interested in home or community 
canning, gardeners and fruit growers who 
produce materials to be canned, manufac- 
turers of home canning equipment, exten- 
sion workers who are interested in the groups 
that wish to organize to do canning work in 
the home, and trained people interested in 
the subject matter involved in successful 
preservation of foods in the home. 

Here is an opportunity for home econom- 
ics people to make a contribution to groups 
that want the information they are best 
prepared to give, i.e., the relation of the 
canning industry to the proper nutrition of 
the family, and at the same time to get the 
most authentic information as to available 
equipment. The association will hold its next 
annual convention in Chicago, March 1923. 
It is hoped that more home economics women 
will attend. 

NOTES 

Beulah Coon, state supervisor of Home 
Economics Education in Arizona for three 
years, is now head of the teacher training 
department in the University of Nebraska. 

Mrs. Kate Kinyon has succeeded Rose 
Shonka as Supervisor of Home Economics 
in the Lincoln public schools. Miss Shonka 
is now in the teacher training department 
at Berkeley, California. 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

REPORT OF THE MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAN 
HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION^ 

Chicago, March 1 and 2, 1922 

Present: Mary E. Sweeny, presiding; Ada Field, Faith Lanman, Mildred Weigley, Grace 
Fr>'singer, Marie Sayles, Katherine Blunt, Helen Atwater, Margaret Sawyer, Ruth Wardall, 
Carlotta Greer, Mrs. Mary Brj-an, Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, Edna N. White, Minna Denton, 
Frances Swain, Jenny Snow, Anna Richardson, Nina Streeter, Sybil Woodruff. 

In the absence of Lenna Cooper, Louise Stanley acted as secretary. The minutes of the 
last meeting were read and approved. 

EUc/i H. Richards Memorial Fund. Report submitted by Dr. Andrews. The Fund shows 
receipts for the year of $810; expenditures $200 as a contribution to the Constantinople pro- 
fessorship, and a net balance, $6510.04; anticipated income for 1922, $302.29. The $300 
that will accrue is to be spent for special lecturers at the Corvallis meeting. 

Journal Board. Report submitted by Mrs. Mary de Garrao Bryan. The increase in sub- 
scriptions for the year 1921 shows 481 students, 836 regular, or a total increase of 1317. 
605 members of the Association do not subscribe to the Journal. Special efforts to secure 
subscriptions, October-December, 1921; 4355 direct appeals for subscriptions, mailed to 
individuals; 41 letters and packages of circulars to state associations for subscription cam- 
paign; 75 letters with circulars enclosed to heads of home economics departments in colleges; 
exhibit at American Dietetic Association meeting; samples and circulars sent to state and 
other meetings; circulars also mailed out with regular correspondence. 

Subscriptions received October 18, 1921-January 25, 1922: 1117 new, 441 renewals of those 
who had been cut off; total 1558, in addition to unexpired renewals. 

The financial statement is included in report of Finance Committee. In 1921, 13 issues 
of the JOL^RNAL were paid for. If only 12 had been paid for the surplus would have been 
over $1000 instead of $114. 

The Board submitted the following recommendations in regard to the appointment of 
additional associate editors: Institution Management, Mabel Little, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison; Home Economics Education, Emma Conley," Albany, New York, to act as co- 
editor with Miss WincheU, to stress particularly elementary and secondary school interests; 
Homemaker, appointment left to the Editor of the Journal and the President. Mildred 
Weigley was appointed. 

Legislative Commitlce. Report submitted informally by Miss Stanley. The Pumell 
Bill was discussed: the Council voted to endorse it as an agricultural biU, but not as a sub- 
stitute for the Smoot Bill. The Chairman was requested to ascertain from the promoters of 
the Pumell BUI the possibility of making the Smoot BiU an amendment to this Bill. 

Inlernalional Commillce on Teaching of Home Economics. Report submitted by Helen 
Atwater. In response to the request of the International Federation of Home Economics 
Instruction the Committee recommended the appointment of a delegate to the Inter- 
national Congress and suggested Miss Winslow, now in London, as the appointee. A second 
delegate would be desirable. Requests for contributions to the program were received so 
late that only one had so far been secured. Material for e.xhibit is in preparation. 

The Committee also recommended the appointment of a home economics representative to 
attend the meeting of the International Federation of University Women to be held in 
Paris, July 15-18. 

Program. A brief report on the program for the summer meeting submitted by Miss 
Milam for Miss Davis, chairman. The relation of section programs and genera! program was 
discussed. It was the interpretation of the CouncU that section chairmen were to be respon- 
sible for their own programs and the Program Committee was to be responsible for the general 
meeting. 

' Business in fuU, but only summaries of committee reports. 



1922] REPORT OF itEETIKG OF COUNCIL 305 

Finance Committee. Report, submitted by Sarah MacLeod, included Treasurer's report, 
auditor's statement, budgets, and comments. Receipts of at least $3,000 must be assured if 
the Association is to function as it should. The 1921 report for the .Association shows a 
deficit of S819.89, due mainly to the cost of pubUshing the Proceedings of the June meeting 
and to the $234.57 spent by the Legislative Committee. The operations of the Journal 
showed a surplus of §114.00. The cost of maintaining and running the office has been kept 
remarkably low and in practically all these items the expenditures have fallen below the 
allowances. 

Suggested Budget for 1922 

Association 

Receipts Expenditures 

Dues $3,000.00 Salaries $975.00 

Sales 5.00 Travel 200 00 

$3,005.00 Meetings 125 00 

Bulletin and 

Proceedings .. 1,000 00 

Rent 48.00 

Telephone and 

telegraph 50 00 

Postage 100.00 

Printing, sta- 
tionery and 

office expense 150 00 

Advertising 50 00 

Committees 100 00 

Surplus 207 00 



$3,005.00 



Journal 



eceipts 




Expenditures 




Subscriptions . . 


..$16,150.00* 


Salaries and 








clerical 


$4,400.00 


Numbers 


300.00 


Travel 


300 00 


Reprints 


100.00 


Rent 


192.00 


Advertising 


.. 4,000.00 


Printing and 




Books 


10.00 


distribution . . 


14,000.00 




$20,560.00 


Telephone and 








telegraph 


50 00 






Postage 


400.00 






Printing, sta- 








tionery and 








office expense 


600.00 






Advertising 


100 00 






Surplus 


518 00 



$20, 560 00 
* Based on estimate of 6000 regular subscribers, 1400 students, and $600 discount to agents. 



306 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Jnter-relaiion Committee. No report. Emma Winslow, chairman, resigned because of 
absence from the country. Lydia Roberts was appointed. 

Membership Committee. The President reported that this committee had no chairman, 
that members of the Committee had been canvassed, and that the appointment of a chair- 
man was referred to the Executive Committee. 

Research Commiltee. Report submitted by Dr. Denton. The research committee has 
initiated the organization of the follo^^^ng sub-committees: (1) Home Economics Research 
in Food Chemistry and Physiological Chemistry, Agnes F. Morgan of Berkeley, California, 
chairman; (2) Field Investigations in Nutrition, Elizabeth Roberts of Chicago, chairman; 
(3) Clothing and Textile Investigations, Grace Denny of Seattle, chairman; (4) Research in 
Home Economics Education, Anna Richardson, of Washington, D. C, chairman. 

Each of these committees shall undertake to outline standards for research in its own 
field, to suggest research projects in that field, and to abstract or to list unpublished research 
theses bearing upon its subject matter. 

The Research Committee recommends: 1. That the Association endorse the following 
qualifications as essential in college faculty members who assume charge of, or responsibility 
for, research work prosecuted by home economics students: Graduate courses and research 
work equivalent to that required for a doctor's degree, if this be possible, othenvise, one or two 
years of work in some graduate school of recognized standing, together with evidence of the 
successful prosecution of original investigation in the form of written or pubUshed reports of 
such investigation; the "research attitude of mind" on the part of the appUcant, which this 
committee considers more important than any formal test of fitness. 2. In case the Associa- 
tion shall see fit to endorse the above recommendation this committee asks that the secretary 
be directed to send copies of the resolution to presidents or deans of state universities and 
land grant colleges, and to heads of home economics departments in these institutions. 

Publicity Committee. Report by Harriet Mason. Arrangements have been made with 
the Newspaper Enterprise Association and with the Central Press Association which fur- 
nishes copy to local dailies and weeklies in the Mid-West, for their use of some material 
pertaining to the activities, interests, and personnel of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

The chairman of the special travel committee has agreed to furnish copy to the Journal and 
data for the general publicity committee. Miss Feike, who assisted Miss MUam in report- 
ing the Colorado Springs Convention, has agreed to direct the publicity of the convention 
for the press of the Northwest. 

The members of tiie committee have been giving such pubUcity as they could, in their 
respective fields, to matters concerning the Association. The federal home economics 
appropriation biU has been featured. 

Regional Committee. Report submitted by Mildred Weigley. The report showed that 
16 states had voted to affiliate and 7 had completed all requirements. 

The Southern Region wished the Council to consider the following points; Change in the 
constitution so as to permit nominations from the floor; statement of advantages of affiliation; 
biennial conferences in the Southern Region to be partially financed by the A. H. E. A.; the 
Annual Meeting of the A. H. E A. to be held in the South every five years. 

Voted that the question of this method of nominating ofijcers be submitted in writing to 
the National Association a month before the Annual Meeting; that the southern Association 
be informed that the interpretation at the Swampscott meeting was to the effect that the 
annual meetings were to rotate regionally; that action on financing meetings be tabled, 
since the Association is not financially able to make pledges at this time. The Council 
expressed itself as being in sympathy with the regional meetings. 

The committee asked for action in regard to transfer of membership from one state to 
another and in regard to time at which affiliation fees fall due. 



1922] REPORT OF MEETING OF COUNCIL 307 

\'oted that states make the necessary adjustments for membership in their own states, 
that memberships run from July 1 to June 30, and that affiliation dues b; sent to the National 
Association not later than January 1. 

In discussing advantages of membership through affiliation it was decided that all A. H. E. A 
committees should work through state associations and that names for state appointments 
be submitted to the executive committee of the state association for approval. It was also 
voted to print the Proceedings as an extra number of the Journal if possible. 

Executive Secretary. No written report received from the Chairman of the Fund Com- 
mittee, but in a personal interview Miss Matthews had reported pledges totaling 84000. 
In response to Miss Matthews' request it was voted that the funds for the Executive Secre- 
tary be banked in Lafayette, Indiana, until the annual meeting. 

The President emphasized the necessity of assuring financial support, and referred to the 
question of the term of years and the salary sc ile. 

\'oted that a committee of three be appointed to develop a plan for underwriting the salary 
of the Executive Secretary for two years. The Council considered it undesirable to make 
any pledge regarding an increase in salary, but agreed that the Executive Secretary would 
have one month's vacation. 

Names suggested by Council members were considered. The choice of the Executive 
Secretary was again referred to the Executive Committee. 

Committee on Standardization of Home Economics Institutions. Report submitted by 
Miss Atwater. The Corrunittee has been in correspondence with most of the more im- 
portant accredited agencies. Confusion increases as one looks further into the question. 
It is clear that the time is ripe for a serious, thorough -going attempt to suggest some uniform 
statement of what should be expected from institutions of different types in which home 
economics courses are offered. The Committee sees three possible types of agencies by 
which such work might be done. I. Association of Professional \\'orkers — in this case the 
A. H. E. .\. Two objections; 1. Personnel of Association is such that work would neces- 
sarily fall largely on women very closely associated with the institutions under consideration. 
2. To be satisfactory, work \^ill require not only time but also funds. II. Association of 
Institutions. Method employed by social service schools and recommended to us by Miss 
Breed. Same objection to it as to I, 2. III. Educational Institutions. Two possible ones, 
Carnegie Foundation and American Council of Education; latter has committee on coUege 
standards. This committee might possibly be willing to undertake the work, in associa- 
tion with persons appointed or suggested by A. H. E. A. Voted that the Committee be 
directed to communicate with the American Council of Education and report to Miss Nardin 
before the April meeting of the American Association of University Women. 

Travel Committee. ]\'Iiss Streeter reported the work of the Travel Committee. Voted 
that the railroads be allowed to use the membership list of the American Home Economics 
Association, but that material issued should be submitted to Miss Streeter; that they circu- 
larize the American Dietetic Association; that they be advised to circularize about the 
■ middle of May. The Council disapproved of any expenditure to cover lists of Journal sub- 
scribers to be gi\en to the railroads. 

Voted that the Travel Committee be enlarged by appointment of members in the states 
and in large cities and that Miss Streeter be empowered to choose these members at once, 
that an Advisory Committee be appointed from those members of the Council resident in 
Chicago. 

Suggested that Miss Streeter communicate with the women's divisions of the Associations 
of Commerce at points included in the western trip. 

Committee to Promote the Journal. Report submitted by I\Iiss Kauffman, read by the Secre- 
tary. Up to this time there are no results to report as the |)lans have just been formulated 
for the following line of procedure: 1. To study definite needs of the Journal, improving 



308 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

its content so as to be of interest to all groups in the field of home economics. 2. To increase 
the niunber of subscriptions. Sub-chairmen have been appointed to work in the following 
states and regions: Antoinette Roof, Simmons College, New England States; Edith Chace, 
State College, Pennsylvania; Edna McNaughton, College Park, Mar>'land; Jennie Bear, 
Dover, Delaware; Frances Tomer, New Brunswick, New Jersey; Edith Thomas, Raleigh, 
North Carolina, Southern States, including Southern Home Economics .Association and Texas, 
Arkansas, and Kentucky; Grace P. Gillett, State College for Teachers, Albany, New York; 
Rachel Colwell, University of West \'irginia. West \'irginia; AUce Biester, University of 
Minnesota, Middle West States; Dorothy Shank, Olympia, Washington, Western States. 
The sub-chairmen ^^^ll formulate plans for procedure in their states. 

Miscellaneous: Voted that a committee of two be appointed to formulate the objectives 
and a program of work for the Association and that this report be made at the annual meeting. 

Mrs. Bryan, Editor of the Jotjrn.^l, requested direction from the Council as to whether 
the proceedings of this Council meeting should be published in full. \'oted that extracts of 
reports and the business in full should be printed in the Journ.\l. 

Voted that the amount of money given by sustaining members he regarded as a contribu- 
tion and that the usual membership fee is expected in addition. 

Voted that, in order to place the present memberships on a regular basis, members be 
asked to pay the amount due to July 1 , 1922, on a pro rata basis of 50 cents per quarter. 

Attention was called to the need for certain changes in the Constitution to make the 
meaning clear, ^"oted that the rewording of the Constitution be referred to the Executive 
Corrunittee. 

The resignation of Edith Thomas as Chairman of the Committee to Study State Supervi- 
sion of Home Economics was received with regret. Filling of the vacancy was referred to 
Miss Snow, chairman of the Home Economics Education Section. 

The request of the American Academy of Political and Social Science for three delegates 
to be sent to their conference in Pliiladelphia, May 12, was referred to the President with 
power to appoint the delegates. 

The suggestion of Agnes Harris, that the Association have present a representative at the 
Biennial Meeting of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, to speak three minutes 
regarding the work of the Association was presented and referred to the President with 
power to act. 

The President reported that the Association has availed itself of the invitation to take 
part in the Public Health Exhibition, Brooklyn, October 5-14, 1922. At the suggestion of 
Elizabeth Condit, Pratt Institute, who has been asked to represent the .Association in making 
arrangements, it was voted that the Council request the Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York to take over this exhibit and to see that the .Association was adequately 
represented. A'oted that a Committee on Exhibits be appointed to handle similar requests 
until the Executive Secretary be appointed. 

\'oted that Anna Richardson be requested to represent the Association on the Joint Legis- 
lative Committee. 

Voted that the President be empowered to appoint an alternate for Dr. Ruth Wheeler on 
the sub-committee on Food and Nutrition of the National Child Health Council. 

Voted that the Association ad\'ise the discontinuing of the Home Economics Section of 
the Western Arts Association. 

Voted that a committee on tests be appointed as a sub-committee of the Home Economics 
Education Section. 

The Council approved of appointing as representative councilors, Frances Swain, Illinois 
Home Economics Association; Blanche Shaffer, North Carolina Association; and Mrs. Myrtle 
Cole, North Dakota Association, affiliation having been completed and the names of their 
representatives having been submitted in due form by the state associations. 



Vol.. XIV, No. 7 July, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those Interested in Homemaking, Institution Management* 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Nf AKY DF. Gakuo Bsvan, EtlUor Ketuvab E. Baldwin, Business Editof 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Masy H. Abel C. F. Lanoworthy Amr Daniels Katharine Fisbeb Grack G. DxiniT 

Editor of "The Question Box" Amy Daniels 
Associate Editors 
Day Monroe, Newi 

Edith Barber and Mildred Weicley, Social Welfareand the Home 
Florence Ward Extension 

Katharine Blunt and Sybil Woodrufp. Foods and NutiitioD 
Cora Winchell and Emma Conley, Education 
RcTTH O'Brien. Textiles 
Mabel Litti-e, Institution Fcooomic* 
AucE BiESTER Bibliography 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisois 



CONTENTS 

Botanical Instruction for Students of Home Economics J. E. K'nkwood 309 

Factors to be Consideeed in Planning the Establtsitment of a Cafeteria 

Xfargaret A. Proclor 314 

Equipment in Elementary and Jl-nior High Schools Grace Schermerhorn 320 

Score Cards as Devices in Teaching Clothing Construction 

I.cona F. BoK'man and Elizabelh Todd 322 

Dyestuffs Glenola Bchling Rose 328 

Fats and Their Use d; Pastry Making Mary Carter Tatum 330 

Suggestions for Research in Marketing or Dietetics 330 

Student Contributions 

My Summer's Experience in Lnstitutional Work Jeannelle Rogers 331 

The Budget Leposava Stankovilcli 3i3 

The \'itamine's the Thing Elizabeth Cornelius 335 

Editorul 336 

Open Forum 339 

Books and Literature 343 

News from the Field 349 

Fifteenth .\nnual Meeting 349 



The Jouknal of Horn Economics is published monthly by the American Home EconomicB Associatioo 
%1.St A YEAR FOREIGN J2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft, Check, Exoreu Order, or Postal Money Ordet, 
oayable to lOr American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's riak. 

NOTICE. When payment u made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANCE IN ADPRF.SS Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date ol issue on whict 
the change is to lake effect The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address 

A.MERICA.V home FXONO.MICS association 1211 Cathedral .St.. Baltimore, .Md. 

TBI JouaMAL OF Hoiit EcoNomcs is on sale at John Wanaraaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store. Boaun: 
A C. WeClura & Co.. Chicago: Hochschild. Kohn * Co.. Haltimo-e Woodward and Lothiou. Waahington 





View of Kitchen Laboratory and Bedroom of Flat, New York Schools 

See p. 320 

By courtesy of the Housekeeping Center Association 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XrV JULY, 1922 No. 7 

BOT.\NICAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS OF HOME 
ECONOMICS 

J. E. KERKWOOD 

Professor of Botany in the State University of Montana 

The relation of plant life to human welfare is too obvious to merit 
comment. The appreciation of this relation, however, seems strangely 
inadequate in present schemes of education in which liberal culture is 
content to continue in ignorance of those tilings most intimately involved 
in our daily life and activities in all their relations. It is, therefore, 
with a distinct sense of gratification that we view the reorganization of 
courses in home economics at once broadening their field and enhancing 
their influence by making some practical botanical knowledge a fun- 
damental requirement. 

The course in botany for students of home economics at the State 
University of Montana aims at two things: first, instruction in the na- 
ture of the plant as an organism, with emphasis upon some of the lessons 
from the life of the plant which are of broadest import; second, the 
presentation of a body of information on the nature and sources of the 
most important products of the plant world. I'ollowing is a statement 
of the content of such a course in its general outlines. 

Following an introductory lecture on the fundamental properties of 
living matter as manifested in plant life, the course opens with a study 
of the leaf. Three functions are considered in this connection. Experi- 
ments are performed to demonstrate transpiration, respiration, and 
photosynthesis. The structure of the leaf and its relation to these func- 
tions is explained. Special emphasis is laid upon photosynthesis as the 
source of starch and sugar with a strong background in the lectures as 
to its cosmic importance. It is thought that the introduction, at the 
start, of a topic of such significance fixes at once the attention and in- 
terest of the student and claims the respect due to the subject. The 
role of water in plants, revealed in part by the phenomenon of transpira- 
tion, opens the way to a brief reference to the influence of moisture in 

309 



310 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

the distribution of vegetation, and, in connection with respiration, 
appears an opportunity to point out the ultimate likeness and meaning 
of the function in all living organisms. 

The study of roots furnishes an introduction to the study of absorption 
and the osmotic forces involved. It also opens up the subject of the 
subterranean parts of plants as storage and propagative organs and 
leads to the consideration of the soil as the source of certain constituents 
of the plant body. 

The stem is considered mainly in its structural aspects and modifica- 
tions. The differentiation of its tissues and their identification as a 
basis for future treatment of textiles and other products furnishes the 
principal motive, with the function of storage of various materials as 
secondary. Here also may be presented certain forms of vegetative 
propagation and the horticultural practices of cutting and grafting. 

Seeds and seedlings are treated as in the usual course in elementary 
botany. The microscopic examination of reserve foods such as starch, 
aleurone, oils, the recognition of various forms of starch grains, and the 
constitution of starch and other food materials are emphasized. As 
much time as can be spared at this point is devoted to the three main 
classes of foods, viz., proteins, carbohydrates, and fats, and the tests 
for their recognition. In connection with the seedling, enzymes and 
digestion are stressed especially in lectures and demonstrations. The 
morphology of the seed and the course of events in its development are 
touched lightly. 

The structure and functions of the floral organs convey the lessons of 
fertilization and reproduction. Some emphasis is laid upon cross and 
self-fertilization, the significance of variation and salient facts of natural 
and experimental evolution. Here is introduced the subject of plant 
breeding in its horticultural and utilitarian aspects. The extent to 
which the improvement of field, garden, and orchard crops has been 
conducted and a glimpse of the methods employed are always of interest 
and the information is usually received by students as revealing an 
eminently practical and obviously valuable field of hum.an endeavor. 

As a conclusion of Part I the mode of classification of plants is briefly 
presented. Here is discussed the meaning of orders, families, genera and 
species and an effort is made to convey some conception of the basic 
principles involved in the distinctions of the various taxonomic ranks. 
This treatment also furnishes the introduction to Part II, which con- 
siders the economic plants largely from the standpoint of their family 
relationships. 



1922] BOTANICAL INSTRUCTION FOR STUDENTS 311 

In discussing the economically important families, their botanical 
characters are presented first. No effort is made in this course to em- 
phasize generic and specific distinctions, but the significant marks by 
which the family is recognized and the structural features, tissues, or 
organs involved in the product are deemed worthy of special considera- 
tion. The geographic range and particular habitat features, especially 
of the important genera or species, also receive attention. With ref- 
erence to the economic aspects of each group, the following points are 
usually presented: (a) the economic significance of the product, (b) the 
most important properties to which the value of the product is due, 
(c) the methods of production and utilization, (<f) the center of the 
world's production, and (e) something of its history and development. 
Other features may be included as circumstances warrant. 

The study of the economic plants begins with the cereals. The struc- 
ture of the flower and development of the grain are traced in the wheat 
and maize only, but the more obvious distinctions between the ears of 
wheat, barley, rye, oats, rice, and sorghum are shown, with reference 
also to the seed, fodder, and broom sorghums and forage grasses. The 
primitive races of wheat are outlined and their relation to present day 
varieties considered. Attention is paid to the aleurone and starchy 
tissues of the grain, chemical composition and gluten content, practices 
in milling, and the relation of climate and agricultural practice to the 
quality of the flour. Similarly, maize and rice, their history and 
culture, the more important races, their composition and products 
are outlined. 

The palm family affords points of interest in connection with the 
production of food materials of various kinds, fats for cooking and 
butter substitutes, fibers and other articles. Nuts are also considered 
in their respective families, especially walnuts, hickories, chestnuts, and 
almonds. 

The larger fruits included are mainly those grown in north temperate 
latitudes, with the exception of the fig and date. The cultural methods 
employed, the earlier history and the more recent results of breeding 
and selection make this subject one of unusual interest. The various 
races of citrous, pomaceous and drupaceous fruits furnish good illustra- 
tive material for the study of horticultural genetics as well as important 
products from the economic standpoint. The smaller fruits, the berries 
commonly cultivated, including strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, 
currants, gooseberries, blue-berries, and cranberries, receive attention 
mainly from the botanical standpoint and family relationships. 



312 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

In the pea family, in addition to the garden peas and beans, attention 
is directed to the soy bean and its numerous products. In the treat- 
ment of this and related leguminous groups much time may be spent if 
available, at the discretion of the instructor, but in a short course it 
seems best to abbreviate this topic in view of the claims of many other 
important subjects. 

The principal garden vegetables and savory herbs are considered under 
the four families, Cruciferae, UmbeUiferae, Solanaceae and Labiatae. 
This should be extended to include the Cucurbitaceae and some others 
if time will permit. In connection with some of these groups reference 
is made to well-known weeds and cultivated flowers and the prevalence 
of indigenous species in the local flora. Here it is also convenient to 
point out the nature and properties of volatile oils and their relation 
to affairs other than the preparation of food. The family characters 
are so distinctive as to be easily presented and comprehended, and are 
the more important, being considered in relation to familiar objects. 

In the textiles, cotton and flax are the only subjects receiving much 
attention. In the case of cotton its history and distribution are con- 
sidered, and the production of the lint and its treatment. In addition 
to the textile products, reference is made to the manufacture of gim- 
cotton, collodion, vegetable silk, and other materials. Flax is followed 
from the field to the loom and the exact characters of the fiber presented 
in lecture and laboratory. The difference between seed flax and fiber 
flax is set forth and the geographic range of the latter presented both as 
to cultivation and manufacture. 

The production of sugar from cane, beets, and maple sap is followed 
through the process of its manufacture. The conditions attending the 
growth of cane and beets, the volume of the product and the climatic and 
other factors governing the crop are pointed out. Here also are em- 
phasized the botanical aspects of the subject in the relation of sugar 
to photosynthesis and the nutrition of the plant and the advancement 
in sugar content accomplished by selection. 

Beverage plants producing tea, coffee, and chocolate constitute another 
chapter in the course. The preparation of the market article and the 
significance of the various grades, the cultivation of the plants, their 
identification and the parts involved are regarded as important. This 
lesson furnishes a convenient point for a brief excursion on the subject 
of alkaloids. Here again is presented the relation of climate to the 
geographic distribution of the crop. 



1922] BOTAXICAL INSTRTJCTION ±OR STrtDENTS 313 

Although previous reference touched upon the subject of fats and 
oils, their great importance from the standpoint of various industries 
as well as their use as foods justifies a special period devoted to their 
study. The drying, semidrying, and non-drying oils for paints, var- 
nishes, salads, cooking, lubricating and the like, the consideration, 
briefly, of olives, cotton seed, peanuts, rape seed, china nuts, and castor 
oil seeds and various other sources of oils, all contribute to make this 
one of the most important topics of the course. Here may be considered 
the production of copra, and, if more convenient than elsewhere, the 
essential oils. 

Under gums are presented, chiefly rubber and guttapercha. The 
production of rubber in commercial quantities from several different 
plants and from at least two different tissues and its vast importance 
from the standpoint of utility and wealth render its discussion a matter 
of considerable importance. The development of the industry and its 
methods, the geographic sources of the raw rubber, the significance of 
the gum as a vegetable product, are treated as fully as time will allow. 

In a brief allusion to forest products, particularly of the United States, 
some sLatistics are given as to the three main classes of materials, viz., 
lumber, pulp and paper, and distillation products. A brief discussion 
as to the manner of production and of the nature of the tissues and struc- 
tures involved, together with a list of the principal trees in the order of 
their importance, constitutes the main line of treatment. It is also 
considered desirable to point out the centers of production of the various 
commodities and as far as possible to indicate some of the distinguishing 
marks of the most important genera. 

Thus far the course has dealt only with the seed plants, which cer- 
tainly outclass all others in respect to their contributions to human 
needs. Nevertheless some time is profitably spent on the study of 
fermentative organisms, the bacteria and fungi. Most of this, however, 
is summarized in lectures. The main importance of the fungi consists 
not in any positive contribution but in what they subtract from the sum 
total of material wealth by destroying crops, foods, forests, and structural 
timbers. 

The time devoted to the course as above outlined is three months, 
with three lectures and two laboratory sessions per week. The first 
month is devoted to Part I, the second and third to Part II. The course 
is presented to freshmen without prerequisite. The writer feels that 
the time allotted is entirely too short for more than a superficial view 
of the subject. The aim, however, is more informational than discip- 



314 THE JOTJBNAL OF HOMK KCONOMICS U^Y 

Unary and the effort is made to condense into the one term as large a 
body of fact as possible, as a basis for subsequent work on foods, tex- 
tiles, and other subjects in the curriculum of home economics. Never- 
theless, the desirability of attempting so much in so short a time may 
be questioned. 

No text-book adapted to such a course is available. For the first 
part reference is made to standard elementary texts; for the second, 
to government bulletins and monographs. Sargent's "Plants and Their 
Uses" is very helpful, but contains much material not pertinent to our 
purpose and omits much that is needed. 

The laboratory work takes the form of exercises on the plants dis- 
cussed in the lecture, as far as such plants are available, i.e. the study of 
flowers, fruits, and other parts, identifying the families, and also a study 
of the particular tissues involved in the special products wherever 
practicable. Thus a study of the microscopic structure of the wheat 
kernel is required in connection with cereals, of bast fibers of flax and 
lint of cotton in connection with textiles, of the flower structure in the 
case of the mustard, carrot, and mint families. For the first part of 
the course the usual laboratory exercises for elementary instruction in 
botany are all that are required. 



FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN PLANNING THE ESTAB- 
LISHMENT OF A CAFETERIA 

MARGARET A. PROCTOR 
Secretary for Cafeterias, National Board, Y. W. C. A. 

The lure of the tea room as the royal road to success is appealing 
more forcefully than ever before to ambitious business women. Too 
many plunge into the undertaking without fully understanding the funda- 
mentals that govern the business, and without giving sufiicient study 
to the problems that must be met. The satisfaction of being able to 
serve good, home-cooked food, with or without the altruistic aim of 
helping thereby to better the community, and, at the same time, making 
the project a financial success, is the ideal that inspires many efiicient 
business women in undertaking a venture of this sort. They have a 



1922] PLANNING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A CAEETERIA 315 

preconceived idea of the type of restaurant with which they would like 
to be identified, but too often they fail to take into consideration the kind 
of food shop that wall be best adapted to the actual needs of the com- 
munity and the importance of choosing the location carefully and study- 
ing the requirements of the potential clientele. 

This article attempts to outline the policy to be followed in making 
this decision, the methods to pursue in financing the undertaking, the 
importance of studying both the plan and adaptability of the equip- 
ment, together with some particulars in regard to the qualifications of 
the manager. 

A good food shop is an asset toward establishing the well-being of 
the community, and is undoubtedly a necessity from the health point 
of view. This is being constantly proved by the demonstrations that 
have been and are being successfully operated in many places. The 
numbers and tj-pes of food shops that will have to be provided to satisfy 
the local requirements have not yet been exhausted. The communities 
themselves are awake to the need for and value of good food as part of 
their daily program, but in order to decide whether or not a food shop 
should be established in a community, as well as the type that would 
seem to satisfy the demand, a survey of the community itself must 
first be made. The town must be studied from many angles to deter- 
mine: 

The area and arrangement of the business district. 

The transportation facilities. 

The type of restaurants already established. 

The proportion and groups of non-resident population. 

The necessity for a good eating establishment. 

The inclination or disinclination of the people to eat away from home, 
at noon especially. 

The custom of eating the noon meal down town as a regular practice. 

The number and location of the different factories or other commer- 
cial business houses in the community. 

The proportion of foreign-bom employed. 

It is necessary to consider very carefully the question of area and 
arrangement of the business district. Scattered or concentrated shop- 
ping centers, natural interruptions, as hills, rivers, or railroad tracks, 
are subconscious but very vital points that will be reflected in the num- 
ber of patrons who can make use of a given center in a limited period of 
time. The available transportation facilities and their use are prime 
factors in determining the existing need and the choice of location. 



316 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

For instance, if a street car line goes from one end of the town to the 
other, joining two outlying thoroughfares to the central business section, 
it will naturally draw people from the outlying districts to the center. 
If there are many traction lines the busy centers will be less congested 
but more numerous. The possibility of uniting them through such a 
common interest as a restaurant, depends upon their proximity to each 
other without such possible barriers as intervening railroad tracks. 
The local use of motor cars should be taken into consideration; the busi- 
ness people of some towns use their motors to go home for lunch. In 
certain towns their homes may even be within easy walking distance. 

The type of restaurants already established should give an indication 
of the kind of food that the public is either tolerating or demanding. 
The number of employed foreign-born people must be considered if 
they are the predominating group, for it will be necessary to satisfy 
their dietary customs which are more than personal idiosyncrasies. 
Another point that will be learned from the restaurants already estab- 
lished will be the number of meals provided each day and the hours of 
service, whether continuous or intermittent. The study will show that 
the meal hours are adjusted under one of the following arrangements: 
5 meals a week, 3 meals a day for 7 days, 2 meals a day for 7 days, 
3 meals a day for 6 days, 3 meals a day for 6 days and 2 meals a day on 
Sunday. The type of service represented in the first arrangement satis- 
fies the school group, for ten months only; the others meet the require- 
ments of the non-resident and tourist and employed groups. The pro- 
portion of non-resident employees will enter very largely into the de- 
termination of the number of patrons as long as the cafeteria is accep- 
table to them, suits their convenience, satisfies their hunger, stimulates 
their appetite, keeps up the standard of good food at a fair price. 

The class of workers patronizing the restaurant will determine some 
interesting points. If this group is professionally established on a 
good salary basis Ihey will undoubtedly purchase an entire meal. If 
the group is drawn from the smaller departmental stores and from minor 
clerks whose salaries range around the living wage figure, the latter 
will demand only a supplementary meal, a hot dish or a cold dish, soup 
or a beverage, or ice cream. The combination of these two groups will 
legislate toward a general cafeteria where every tj-pe of individual may 
be satisfactorily served. 

The question of Sunday meals is in some localities a vital question. 
Theoretically it is quite a drawing card in some communities to have 
the privilege, which soon becomes a practice, of eating Sunday dinner 



1922] PLANNING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A C.AJFETERIA 317 

in a restaurant. It is well in this case to consider: the number of people 
in the community who are absolutely dependent for their sustenance on 
this restaurant; the number of out-of-town people who come in to church 
and are detained for afternoon meetings before renewing their homeward 
journey; the number of tourists who are in the community for sightsee- 
ing, when it is the to-mi's business to provide nourishment with the 
scenery. 

The town's point of view, whether "it is done" or "it is not done," 
will determine whether or not the establishment of a first class restaurant 
with good food at a reasonable price will entice people to stay downtown 
to eat, or prove of such service to them that it would be to their ad- 
vantage to remain downtown for their noon meal. The distribution 
in the community of a small card bearing the following request for in- 
formation to be signed by the recipient, is a preliminary step in deter- 
mining the feeling of the community for such a service. The card may 
read: 

Do you eat downtown at noon? At night? 
Would you patronize a cafeteria if one were established? 
If so, return this card to 

Name 

Business .'\ddress 

The number of signed cards returned will give a fair estimate of the 
possible number of patrons, and the information derived from the card 
will show the kind of groups that need and want this service. If the 
adult business group predominates the restaurant must be located in 
the business district. On the other hand, if the predominating group 
is composed of school children and teachers, the restaurant must naturally 
be located near the schools. 

When the information from the card has been studied and digested, 
the group that has been interested in making the survey can proceed 
with the organization. A committee is appointed to be known as the 
Board of Managers, whose business it will be to do the constructive 
planning of the project. Their first duty will be to plan the scheme 
for financing the undertaking. They will consult the business men of 
the community in order to secure their cooperation and support before 
proceeding to make an investment. To finance the original project a 
stock company might be organized or shares might be issued at a mod- 
erate price and so put within the reach of the average young business 
man and woman. This method will operate to broaden the interest 
in the project and thereby strengthen the foundation of the enterprise 



318 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

itself. The necessary amount may be secured by interesting one or 
more indi\aduals in the project, who will be willing to advance the sum 
required to initiate the undertaking. The initial cost of the restaurant 
or cafeteria is not small, and the amount of reconstruction that has to 
be accomplished in rented quarters will make a variation in the sum to 
be secured. The amount that is raised must include enough capital 
to carry the cafeteria for a period of three months, or until the machinery 
and management are in working condition. 

After the financing is assured, the next problem will be to find a suit- 
able space. A room as nearly square as possible, in a location which 
is self-advertising, and with an easy entrance, should be chosen. It 
should be flooded with natural light to minimize the electric light bills, 
and should be adapted to unquestionable ventilation, for, after all, 
the first impression that is given the guest is the lasting one. The supply 
of fresh air may invite the guest to become a regular patron, and the 
lack of it will undoubtedly discourage any desire to return. The floor 
space to be rented must be of adequate area to include a dining room, 
rest room, kitchen, preparation room, and store rooms. 

The space allowed for storage must be carefully handled, as the dry 
storage and canned goods require one kind of room and the root vege- 
tables and other bulky natural foods require another. In both instances, 
ventilation and the necessity for protection by secure locking are vitally 
important and must be provided. The room for storage of vegetables 
is preferably in a basement. It should have a cement floor and should 
be provided with wooden slat bins made to hold varying amounts of 
supplies. The bins must be arranged to be filled from the top and emp- 
tied from the bottom to insure the oldest food being used first. The 
storage space for canned goods and general supplies should be provided 
with adequate shelving. 

After obtaining desirable quarters, the committee should next call 
in an equipment firm or a consultant to plan the layout and equipment. 
The equipment should include one or two hotel ranges, a bake oven, 
two kitchen tables, one or two refrigerators, two sets of sinks, a coffee 
urn, an ice cream box, a steam table and as many labor saving devices 
for the preparation of vegetables and the grinding and mixing of food 
as the promise of business will warrant, the latter to be added as they 
have been earned by the business. In the dining room the list will 
include tables, chairs, a cold water dispenser, silver, china, glass, hat 
racks, and a cash register. 



1922] PLANNING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A CAFETERL\ 319 

It is necessary to secure the manager before the plans of the restau- 
rant are finally developed, and certainly before the equipment and fur- 
nishings are purchased and installed. The advice of a competent 
manager protects against many of the minor and major troubles that 
ordinarily occur. The management of the restaurant is the deciding 
factor in its efiiciency, and it is absolutely dependent upon the know- 
ledge and spirit of the executive. The manager must be chosen care- 
fully after a personal inter\aew. If possible, it is well to have a know- 
ledge of the reputation and conditions obtaining in the establishment 
with which the candidate has already been identified, and the contribu- 
tion he or she has made to its development. 

If, after a restaurant has been established in the community, it has 
been found to be a non-paying concern, an investigation must be under- 
taken immediately to determine the reason. If business conditions in 
the town have changed, another survey may be necessary. It is not 
unusual that the original site is no longer the center of activities and 
must be changed. The following points will be investigated very care- 
fully: Number of patrons served per day, per week, per month. How 
does this compare with the original numbers served? Amount of re- 
ceipts per day, per month. Amount of expenditures per day, per month. 
How do these figures compare with previous business? Quality of food 
served. Attitude of the patrons toward the restaurant. 

As a guide toward regulating the expenditures, the following per- 
centages, based on the receipts, may be used : food, 45 to 60 ; wages and 
salaries, 25 to 18; rent, 3 to 5; upkeep, 10 to 7; renewals and replace- 
ments, 3 to 2; profit, 14 to 8. 

The fault of the management may lie in the amount spent for food 
or in the salaries paid. It is usually found in the former, and to cor- 
rect this it is well to inspect the portions of food served and to look to 
the amount and kind of garbage that is discarded, investigating the 
manner of preparation of food in the kitchen and the tendency to pil- 
fer on the part of the employee. The loss in sales from the food pur- 
chased may be traced to any or all of these conditions; each reflects 
the inadequacy of the management and should be treated on this basis. 
Itlistakes are easily corrected or avoided where there is a complete un- 
derstanding between the Board of Directors and the manager, and where 
frankness and business methods have been the policy. 



320 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS IJu^y 

EQUIPMENT IN ELEMENTARY AND JUNIOR HIGH 
SCHOOLS 

GRACE SCHERMERHORN 

Director of Cooking, New York City Public Schools 

The accompanying plan and the illustrations in the frontispiece 
show the standardized domestic science equipment for all elementary 
and junior high schools now being built in New York City. In a room 
the size of two ordinary class rooms, we have combined indi\ddual 
equipment, unit kitchens, and a flat. It is intended that two teachers 
will be in charge, and that 36 to 40 pupils will be taught at one time. 




Flah of Laboratory and Flat 

The pupils will be divided into three sections; two of these sections 
in the laboratory kitchen, and the third section in the flat. These sec- 
tions will work in the following manner: 

Section 1. Individual equipment. Pupils learn to interpret and 
use printed recipe under supervision of the teacher. 

Section 2. Unit kitchens. Each group of 2 pupils work independ- 
ently at a kitchen cabinet, cooking in family quantity the food they 
learned to cook at the individual desk (section 1). Sections 1 and 2 
alternate every lesson so that, while the teacher is developing work 
with section 1, section 2 is working without supervision to develop 
skill and to apply the knowledge of the previous lesson. 

The food prepared in the unit kitchen will be judged in the light of 
the standard developed in the individual lessons, and the products that 



1922] EQUIPMENT IN HIGH SCHOOLS 321 

have marketable value will be sold at cost to the school lunch room, to 
the teachers, or to the pupils to take home. 

Section 3. Flat. Pupils learn household tasks other than cooking 
and care of the kitchen, and also prepare and serve in family meals the 
foods they learned to prepare in sections 1 and 2. Section 3 is sub- 
divided into small groups, each doing a different task, each lesson. So 
far as possible printed directions are used in all 3 sections, demonstra- 
tion and explanation being given when children cannot interpret the 
printed page. 

The term is divided into thirds, and the sections rotate so that each 
section has two-thirds of the term in the cooking laboratory, and the 
remaining third in the flat. 

In the cooking laboratory the unit kitchens are separated from each 
other and from the rest of the kitchen with iron railings, leaving the 
entire kitchen within sight of the teacher. In the flat the rooms are 
separated by beaver board partitions seven feet high, but the rooms are 
close together and the door openings are five feet mde, so that it is not 
difficult for the teacher to see what is going on. 

The Housekeeping Center Association of New York City, with Mabel 
Hyde Kittredge as director, has done much to further the work in the 
flats. This association has helped buy furniture and trimmings that so 
far have not been furnished by the Board of Education. For many 
years the schools have used tenement flats maintained by this organiza- 
tion, so that when the request came for flats in the schools, as part of 
the domestic science equipment, principals and superintendents had 
already been converted to the value of the flat in conjunction with the 
cooking laboratory. 

We know that this type of equipment has possibilities beyond the hol- 
low square. We also know that every teacher in these new rooms will 
have to be on the qui vive every second. But we are all open minded 
in "trying out" in order that we may evolve the equipment that best 
meets our needs. 



322 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

SCORE CARDS AS DEVICES IN TEACHING CLOTHING 
CONSTRUCTION 

LEONA F. BOWMAN AND ELIZABETH TODD 

University of Chicago 

Score cards have usually been employed as standards for judges in 
grading finished products. The writers have found that when worked 
out in detail they can be effectively used in teaching. They help pupils 
to estimate their own progress and success, and they aid the teacher in 
selecting subject matter and in determining those points which should 
receive the greatest emphasis in teaching. 

The instructor may have in mind a progressive sequence of problems 
which must be mastered in a complex project, as the making of a cotton 
dress, but unless such problems are definitely pointed out, and their 
relationships clearly set forth, the students fail to grasp the true signifi- 
cance of the tasks which they are undertaking. In an effort to call at- 
tention to the large number and relative values of problems which should 
be borne in mind in garment construction, detailed score cards similar 
to the three presented in this paper have been found helpful. These 
score cards are of two types: first, that type which emphasizes but one 
phase of clothing construction; second, the type which includes the many 
phases common to a completed project. 

Score cards I and II, which are being used in sewing classes with high 
school freshmen, are of the first type. Number I emphasizes proper 
technique in constructive work, while number II deals with the fitting of a 
garment. 

With beginning students, the instructor finds it necessary to explain 
carefully the use of the scores, and to have the pupils use them first in 
a general class exercise for judging garments exhibited. After this 
introduction, each pupil is required to score the next garment she makes, 
handing in the detailed score with the finished project. The next assign- 
ment requires her to use the score in judging the work of another pupil. 
The construction score is used early in the semester's work; the fitting 
score later, usually with the last garments made, for not until then do the 
pupils develop sufficient judgment to use it profitably. 

It has been found that the pupils welcome the scores as a tangible 
and definite tool for evaluating their own work. Their interest is most 
keen, however, when their opportunity comes to grade the work of their 
classmates. The scores thus obtained in the high school range high, 



1922] 



SCORE CABDS IN TEACHING CLOTHING CONSTRUCTION 



323 



usually between 90 and 100 per cent, and never below 80 per cent. These 
high scores indicate the pupils' immature judgment, and are used as 
the basis for further class discussion. 



/. Score Card for Garment Construction 



TACTORS SCORED 



PERFECT SCORE 



SCORE OF 

GARMENT 

CONSIDERED 



Seams 

1. wisdom of choice 

2. correctness of construction 

Hems 

1. appropriateness of width 

2. evenness of width 

3. disposition of fullness 

Edge finishes 

1. wisdom shown in choice 

2. correctness of application 

Fastenings 

1. appropriateness of type 

2. appropriateness of size 

3. correctness of position 

4. security 

Plackets 

1. appropriateness of choice 

2. correctness of construction 

Application of waistband or belt 

1. accuracy of belt finish 

2. distribution of gathers 

Application of trimming 

1 . correctness of position 

2. security 

Hand Sewing 

1. evenness 

2. length of stitches 

3. tightness 

4. security of beginning and ending. 
Machine stitching 

1. straightness 

2. length of stitch 

3. tension 

General neatness 

1. removal of bastings 

2. tjang of threads 

3. creasing of folds 

4. accuracy of measurements 

5. care of raw edges 



Total per cent. 



324 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



II. Score card for a perfectly fitting dress 



FACTORS SCORED 



SCORE OP 
GARMENT 
CONSmEEED 



1. Waist 

a. Neck (10) 

1 . Shape 

2. Size 

3. No excess fullness on chest at neck 

b. Armhole (15) 

1. Position 

2. Size 

3. Shape 

good lines down front and back 

top perpendicular to shoulder seam 

no excess fullness at back 

no excess fullness at front 

c. No wrinkles (10) 

1. From shoulder tip to chest 

2. Across front chest 

3. Across back chest 

4. From neck to underarm 

5. From underarm toward waist line, front 

6. From bust toward waist line, underarm 

d. Adjustment of fullness (5) 

1. Amount of blouse in back 

2. Amount of blouse in front 

3. Distribution of gathers at belt 

2. Sleeve 

a. Warp yarns perpendicular to floor 

b. No wrinkles 

c. Amount and distribution of fullness consistent with 

comfort and style 

d. Looseness sufficient for free movement of arm 

3. Skirt 

a. Center front warp yams perpendicular to floor 

b. Weft yarns parallel to floor 

c. Seams at right angles to waistline and hem 

d. FuUness appropriately distributed 

across front 

across back 

over the hips 

e. Straight hanging of back and front 

f. Bottom parallel to floor 

g. Pleats or gathers to belt at waistline 

4. Accessories 

a. Collar-position 

no wrinkles 

b. Cuffs-position 

no wrinkles 

c. Belt or sash correctly placed 

Total per cent 



1922] 



SCORE CARDS IX TEACHING CLOTHING CONSTRUCTION 



325 



III. Score card for garment construction 



I. Judgment of practical values (20) 

A. Choice of materials: 

1 Ease of handling 

i. Suitability to purpose. . . 

3. Durability 

4. Laundering or ease of 

cleaning 

B. Cost of materials and findings 

C. Amount of waste in cutting 

garment 

II. Design of garment (27) 

A. General appearance: 

1. Line 

2. Distribution of light and 

dark 

3. Color 

4. Texture 

5. Suitability of trimmings 

and finishings 

B. Suitability to individual: 

1. Appropriateness of line 

and space relation 

2. Color and design of ma- 

terial 

C. Suitability of pattern chosen 

to texture and pattern of 

cloth 

ni. Technique and judgment (53) 

A. Fit of garment 

General constructions: 

1. Stitching (4) (Williams 
& Knapp scale)' 

Spacing 

Neatness 

Tension 

Length of stitch 

2. Seams (4) 
Suitability to material 

and part of garment 
Care in construction... 

3. Hems (4) 
Appropriateness of 

width 

Care in turning 



POSSIBLE CRADISG 



20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 



B. 



0.4 
0.8 
0.8 

0.6 
1.0 

0.4 



0.4 
0.4 
0.4 

0.4 



1.2 
1.2 

1.0 
3.0 



0.2 
0.2 
0.2 
0.2 



0.4 
0.4 



0.4 
0.4 



0.8 
1.6 
1.6 

1.2 
2.0 



0.8 
0.8 
0.8 



2.4 
2.4 

2.0 
6.0 



0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 



0.8 
0.8 



0.8 
0.8 



1.2 
2.4 

2.4 

1.8 
3.0 



1.2 
1.2 
1.2 



3.6 
3.6 

3.0 
9.0 



0.6 
0.6 
0.6 
0.6 



1.6 

3.2 
3.2 

2.4 
4.0 



1.6 
1.6 
1.6 



4.8 
4.8 

4.0 
12.0 



0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 



1.6 
1.6 



1.6 
1.6 



2.0 
4.0 
4.0 

3.0 
5.0 



2.0 
2.0 
2.0 



6.0 
6.0 

5.0 
15.0 



2.0 
2.0 



2.0 
2.0 



' Home Economics in American Schools. Supplementary Educational Monograph. 
University of Chicaeo. Chicaeo. Illinois. 



326 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



///. Score Card for Garment Construction — Continued 






POSSIBLE GRADIHG 


SCORE 




20% 


40% 


60% 


80% 


100% 




4. Joiningof waist and skirt. 

5. Setting of sleeve 

6. Finish of pocket, sash, 

collar, cuffs, placket.. . 

7. Fastenings: buttons, but- 

tonhones, hooks and 


0.8 
1.4 

0.8 

0.8 

0.6 
0.4 

0.4 


1.6 
2.8 

1.6 

1.6 

1.2 
0.8 

0.8 


2.4 
4.2 

2.4 
2.4 

1.8 

1.2 

1.2 


3.2 
5.6 

3.2 

3.2 

2.4 
1.6 

1.6 


4.0 
7.0 

4.0 

4.0 

3.0 
2.0 

2.0 




8. Joining of trimmings: 
lace, piping, embroid- 








10. Decorative touches or 










100 









The series of numbers to the right of each subdivision suggests grades for each point to 
be scored, ranging from 20 to 100 per cent. To illustrate, a grade of 4 for "Suitability to 
Purpose" represents a perfect score for that factor, while a grade of 2.4 represents a 60 per 
cent score, and 0.8 a 20 per cent score. 



The need for the second and more complex type of score card is 
particularly felt when instructing students of college age. Garment 
construction to the average pupil means stitches and seams; the artistic 
elements which enter into the proper relation of hues as indicated by the 
seams, and the proper distribution of light and dark are given but little 
thought. She seldom realizes the importance of choosing materials and 
trimmings which in texture, color, and design are perfectly adapted to 
the pattern chosen for making the garment. Score cards of the second 
type aid materially in calling to the attention of the student such related 
factors in garment construction. Score III is of this type. It not only 
refers to technique in construction, and to the fit of a garment, but also 
emphasizes selection of material and choice of design. At first sight this 
score card seems rather complex, but in actual use it is very simple. 

The score card is organized under three main headings. An attempt 
is made in the first division to estabUsh values for judging the student's 
ability in economizing materials when cutting garments and in choosing 
appropriate materials and findings with reference to their functions and 
cost. The second division deals primarily with art principles in the 
design of garments, while the third division is given to the criticism of 
technique and of judgment shown in the choice of processes. The 



1922] SCORE CARDS IN TEACHING CLOTHING CONSTRUCTION 327 

element of judgment enters into constructive work so largely that it has 
been found ad\'isable to combine the two. To illustrate, a seam may be 
perfectly constructed but not be adapted to the kind of material nor to 
the part of the garment in which it is used; the length of stitch and the 
tension suited to sheer materials would not be appropriate to heavy cloth. 

Before any constructive work is attempted in the college class, two 
ready-made dresses of different types are borrowed from one of the local 
stores. The score cards (No. Ill) are distributed and, after their use 
is explained, the different points under each division are discussed in 
relation to the ready-made garments. The students then score the 
garments. No claim is made for accuracy of judgment in scoring at 
this time; the purpose is simply to center the students' attention on 
those factors which should be considered in the constructive work. 

The score is used again in judging the garments constructed in class. 
Each girl is required to score every garment except her own. The aim 
of this procedure is to force each student to analyze garments critically, 
from the viewpoint of construction, design, and value as related to cost, 
thus giving her a definite basis for future constructive work, and for the 
selection of ready-made garments. To the instructor, the use of the 
score card serves as a means of determining the judgment which has 
been developed by the student. 

In a course just completed, twenty-two college girls scored twenty- 
one dresses in two double periods. Without exception the students were 
agreed that such use of the score card was valuable in helping them to 
establish mental standards for judging garments. Their chief criti- 
cism of the procedure was that the time was too limited for giving ade- 
quate thought to all the factors scored in so many garments. It is 
the opinion of the instructor that the scoring of ten selected garments 
would be sufficient to develop the same critical attitude in the student, 
and at the same time give her a basis for estimating her own ability and 
the workmanship of others. It might be interesting to note here that 
the averages of the students' scores coincided with the judgment of the 
instructor in pointing out the three highest and the four lowest scores. 

In conclusion, analytical score cards when properly used in teaching 
garment construction aid materially in giving students a proper concep- 
tion of the problems involved in a project as a whole, they point out the 
relative values of the various problems involved, they help to develop 
in the student a critical and analytical attitude which is valuable in 
selecting ready-made garments, and they assist the instructor in deter- 
mining the judgment which students have developed in their work. 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

DYESTUFFS 

GLENOLA BEHLING ROSE 
Dyestiiffs Department, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Inc. 

Hardly a day has passed, during the last six years, on which a news- 
paper has been published without at least a small paragraph concerning 
dyes, American dyes, German dyes, the fastness of dyestufls, tariff, 
embargoes, license; and yet some persons still ask why we call our colors 
"Coal Tar Dyestuffs." They still marvel at the fact that black tar 
can be turned into indigo blue or cochineal red. 

Tar is one of the fractions obtained when coal is destructively dis- 
tilled. This tar, on being redistilled and the fractions taken at smaller 
intervals, yields a number of products among which are those that the 
dyestuff manufacturer calls "crudes," such as benzene, toluene, naph- 
thalene. From these crudes, by treatment first with acids and then 
with alkalies or other reagents, when heated or cooled, are prepared the 
"intermediates," which number for commercial use about fifty or sLxty. 
The difference between an intermediate and a crude, generally speaking, 
is that a dyestuff can be made from an intermediate by a single process of 
coupling with some other intermediate, while this is not true of the crudes. 
The crudes are all colorless or white substances with characteristic 
odors, while the intermediates, may or may not have odors and are 
usually white or yellow. 

Dyestuffs are all colored, but are odorless. They are sold either as 
powders or crystals or in paste form. While hundreds of dyestuffs are 
known, those that have been found most satisfactory for commercial 
use number less than five hundred of distinct chemical composition, 
excluding mixtures of two or more to give a separate brand. 

Upon the skill of the dyer depends the choice of these colors, and 
upon his choice rests America's reputation for ability to make fast colors. 
If he makes a mistake and chooses a violet that does not penetrate so 
readily as the green he puts with it to make the blue on a felt hat, the 
violet will be on the surface and the green inside the felt. If he chooses 
a red that is faster than the orange he puts with it to make a vivid scar- 
let, the material will soon lose its life and the wearer will have a very 
dull and not a flaming cloak. If he chooses for gingham a \aolet that 
turns permanently red when heated, that gingham dress will disappoint 
its owner after the first washing and ironing, regardless of its extreme 
fastness to washing and light. If the paper dyer chooses for wall paper 



1922] DYESTtrFFS 329 

a color that will not stand alkali, the alkali in the plaster wU soon de- 
stroy the shade. It is not necessary that any such cases should occur 
in America today. Enough dyestuffs in variety, in quantity, and in 
quality, are made to supply every need. 

But to those of us who watch the trend of the consumers' demands, 
it is interesting to note the changed attitude of the public. Before the 
war they expected garments to fade; now they insist that they must not 
fade. From tables compiled by the Government it is possible to com- 
pare the quantities of certain dyestuffs used in this country before the 
war, with the quantities of the identical dyestuff used today. Some 
of the big sellers of those days cannot be moved today, and it is necessary 
to increase the production of the faster, although more expensive, colors. 
Every mill in the country insists on faster colors, because their selling 
agents demand them, because their consumers in turn demand them. 

Fastness is relative, however. A dye that is fast for one purpose 
may not be fast enough for another. The brilliant shades on silks for 
evening gowns are chosen especially for brilliant clarity, not for fastness 
to light. The colors very fast to light and washing, used on chambrays, 
are far too dull for the ballroom. In each case the finished product 
determines the choice of the dyestuff used to produce the shade. 

Dyestuffs manufactured by ^American factories are identical with 
German dyes; in fact, German dyes were obtained to be used as stand- 
ards. Every dyestuff before being put on the market is tested for all 
properties against a standard. Our dyestuffs are made from the same 
intermediates, and are equal to the German dyestuffs in fastness to 
light, water, washing, acids, alkalies, rubbing, ironing, bleach, burning 
sulfur fumes, street dirt, perspiration, and other properties. In addi- 
tion, new dyes are now being invented in America. 

We are frequently asked what should be used by the housewife to 
make colors fast. Our only reply can be, "nothing." Goods properly 
dyed should require no treatment, and the majority of remedies pub- 
lished in various magazines and papers are as useless as they are harmless. 



330 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

FATS AND THEIR USE IN PASTRY MAKING 

M.'OIY CARTER TATUM 

Abstract. The aim of this study was to work out methods and proportions 
for the use of fats in pastry maliing that would be economical both in time and 
materials. The study consists of two parts, the first part being a brief study 
of the fats, and the second part a record of the experimental work. 

The results led to the following conclusions: 

1. Good plain pastry may be made from the common fats in proportions 
ranging from one part butter and four parts flour to one part oil and seven 
parts flour by weight. 

2. Fat and water do not have to be ice cold when making plain pastry. 

3. Much handling makes tough pastrj'. 

4. Butter, oleomargarine, and certain vegetable fat preparations make ex- 
cellent puff paste, and the best proportion is one part fat to one part flour by 
weight, or one part fat to two parts flour by measure. 

5. The following methods sen^e in a measure to prevent fruit juices from 
soaking into the lower crust of fruit pies: 

a. One half to one tablespoon of flour cooked into fruit juice before pie is 
made. 

b. Flour sprinkled over lower crust. 

c. Cooking in granite pan on lower rack of oven at 3(X)°C. for seven minutes. 

d. Brushing lower crust with egg white. 

The test used as a measure of the extent to which absorption had taken 
place was the extent to which the lower crust increased in weight as a result 
of the baking process. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR RESEARCH IN M.\RKETING OR DIETETICS" 

There are many lines of research in Home Economics which I should like to see pursued 
My own work has been largely on minimum cost of adequate living. Much more needs to 
be done in that line, and I believe that college students could do a great deal of it. 

These are some of the minor projects which it has seemed to me possible to work out in 
classes of dietetics or household management: 

In what quantities is it most economical to buy food materials for household use? 

WTiat is the difference in price of the same food material after different forms of prepara- 
tion; for example, com in the form of corn meal, corn-flakes, hominy, grits, etc? 

How much more in comparison to quantity of food consumed does it cost to feed a family 
of two than a family of six, seven, or eight? 

\ATiat is the size of prunes most economical to buy? 

What is the cost of homemade bread, including cost of labor and fuel, and excluding these 
factors? 

What is the necessary waste in food materials in the process of preparation and serving? 

' Extract from a letter from Florence Nesbitt, District Superintendent and Home 
Economist, United Charities of Chicago, Lower North District. 



STUDENT CONTRIBUTIONS 

MY SUMMER'S EXPERIENCE IN INSTITUTIONAL WORK 

Note: This article is the story of one student's experience in institutional 
work. Perhaps it will serve to give girls who have a keen interest in the 
institutional phase of home economics, and are ambitious to do it, an incentive 
to attempt experimental summer work. The experience derived will be 
extremely beneficial to them in their continued study and they will be better 
able to do their class work with understanding. 

Every summer a private club in northern Iowa, whose membership 
is over 100, has employed a manager trained in home economics. It is 
customary for the manager or joint managers to contract for this pro- 
ject. Instead of receiving a salary they make what they can on the 
business. This means that they have full charge; they hire all the help, 
buy all the food and supplies, but do not pay anything for rent or light. 
The contract is explicit and includes such details as: the hours of the 
meals; length of serving hours; foods to be served at each meal, for ex- 
ample, for breakfast fresh fruit, a choice of any drink, a choice of any 
cereal (one to be hot), cream for cereal, a choice of bacon, eggs or hot 
cakes; persons to whom meal tickets are to be issued and provisions that 
any luncheons or dinners which the guests might give are to be taken 
care of. 

A graduate of Iowa State College and I accepted the management 
of this private club for the summer. We began making our plans two 
months previous to the opening. One hired the kitchen help and the 
other located college women to do the serving. We made out a list 
of food supplies which we estimated would be needed for the first 
month of the season, and placed our orders with two wholesale houses, 
one of which was near and could serve us in emergency. We also bought 
as much as was feasible from the local grocer. 

En route to the resort we stopped in the small city ten miles distant 
and made ourselves known to the wholesalers. The same day we 
visited the packing house to become acquainted not only with the fifm 
but with the phraseology of their price lists in order that we might do 
more intelligent buying. We visited the dairy where we expected to 
buy supplies and made arrangements for the cream and milk to be 
delivered every morning and a certain number of pounds of butter each 
week. The wholesale grocers later sent salesmen several times a week 
to take the orders so that it was unnecessary for us to go to town. 

331 



332 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

After we opened, we were fairly besieged with visiting salesmen. Each 
told us that the former managers had used his goods. They used any 
means of persuasion. For the most part we abided by our first de- 
cisions for we had given them very careful thought. It is part of the 
ethics of buying for the purchaser to be as loyal to the firm as the firm 
is to him. We found in times of emergency that these firms gave us 
fine service. 

We checked all shipments as they arrived. Our kitchen help was 
colored. A man as first cook prepared meats and vegetables, while 
his wife as second cook did the pastry work and also assisted in the 
preparation of the vegetables and salads. We had another man who 
was the dishwasher and did the cleaning. A sister of the first cook v/as 
second dish washer and helped prepare salads. As these people were 
related they were more contented and did better work than strangers 
would have done. 

In the dining room there were eight girls, one for every two tables of 
eight each. It was a family dining room and every one came in at once 
expecting to be served without delay. The girls were given definite 
duties before and after every meal. They came over from their cottage 
to do their work about thirty minutes before the meal was to be served. 
Their duties were cutting butter patties, cutting bread, filling individual 
cream pitchers, syrup pitchers, etc. Each was responsible for the things 
on her own table. The serving usually lasted one hour except at break- 
fast when two hours were allowed. A choice of food was given at 
breakfast but none at the other meals. The method of serving for all 
the meals was practically the same. Each girl had her own movable 
tray-stand in a convenient place by her two tables. There was also 
another little stand built in the side wall where she kept the water bottle 
and the ice tea pitcher. She followed a definite route through the 
kitchen in obtaining the food for her tray. After the meal was over, 
the dishes were taken off and tables crummed before the girls ate. While 
the girls ate at a table in the dining room arranged for their own use the 
dishes were being done. By the time they had finished, the china and 
silver were ready for them to reset the tables. Everything in the din- 
ing room was left in order for the next meal before any one was allowed 
to leave. In addition to their li\ang we paid our girls only a small 
amount which was to cover their railroad expenses. They were given 
every opportunity they desired to learn about the methods of the business 
and of the management. Even figures and amounts were given if they 
cared to see them. 



1922] THE BUDGET ^33 

Since the salesmen from various firms came on regular days we made 
out our menus for ten days in advance for easy reference. We formed 
lists of articles wanted on certain dates which facilitated prompt ship- 
ment or delivery. Later in the season we depended entirely on truck 
gardeners for fresh vegetables as the wholesale housedid nothandlethem 
then. We paid for these things when they were delivered; other bills 
were paid by our secretary on the dates arranged for. We had planned 
our own system of bookkeeping. We paid all bills by check, filing 
the bills with the same number as that of the check. 

Some of the diiEculties which had to be met were: becoming accus- 
tomed to the food tastes of the people; supplying the constant demand 
for fresh fruits and fresh vegetables and using absolutely no canned 
goods; keeping the food hot with inadequate equipment to arrive at 
the time they were required ; meeting the situation when supplies failed ; 
settling troubles which would arise among the kitchen help ; serving meals 
on time regardless of anything that happened. 

The value of the experience, however, consisted in this: first, we 
carried real responsibility; second, we had many a lesson in the psy- 
chology of business; third, we proved that we could meet emergencies; 
fourth, we had wonderful training in managing people, temperamental 
cooks, idle and often unreasonable patrons, irresponsible and thought- 
less helpers. But on the other hand, many people were interested in 
our undertaking this work and encouraged us with their commendations 
and helped us to succeed. The whole experience has given us an ap- 
preciation of all that is involved in the task of feeding the public and has 
increased our desire to continue in this phase of home economics. 

Jeanette Rogers, 
Iowa State College. 



THE BUDGET' 

Keeping budget in the house bring happiness, because the money is 
living question, and always bring worry. Keeping budget it will help 
very much. Budget has been called family compass and it is very 

' This article, written by a young Serbian girl, who is being educated at the College by 
thp Newcomb students, is printed without change. 



334 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

profed. Budget has to be fixed in way how much income per year. 
Regularly budget run in 100 per cent but its arrangement depends 
how many family have to live in that income, and how much the income 
is. For example, we can take $180 per month because the poor people 
have to think, more than the rich, how to arrange their income. This 
budget will show how to spend whole amounts for food, clothes, running 
expenses, shelter and higher life; but if we want to keep accounts, for 
money, how much we spend every day, we have to write in a separate 
book for everything that we buy. Clothes 20 per cent, food 35 per 
cent, shelter 15 per cent, running expenses 20 per cent, liigher life 10 
per cent. 

HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT 

In our class we have been introduced first with the question, "Purpose 
of a home." It is a very long subject to discuss about and that is 
something that make a home. Knowledge about household manage- 
ment give us good health, education, learn the family, help to the 
everybody, cleaning the house, feeding the family, keep accounts of 
money. 

First is one which help us to do all the others. For the health, we 
learn in cooking which food will give great deal of health. The second, 
education, it is for future life; it is to teach who don't know about and 
for ourself. The third is one that is very hard, to know own family. 
Understanding each other in home and to be able to do for them is the 
best feeling and make very happy home. Fourth, help to everybody, 
it means very much to the person which like to know and has not. Fifth, 
cleaning the house means very much, because if we do not know how to 
clean all things, many times we have to buy two times for one. Keep- 
ing house clean means give longer life to the family. Sixth, feeding the 
family, it helps very much to the sick people. Feeding the family is 
very important for the children to keep them in good health and give 
strong foundation. Seventh, keeping account of money brings happi- 
ness to the home. If we know how much we have and how much we 
need to work to have enough for life it will be enough to make us happy. 

Leposava Stankovitch. 
E. Sophie Newcomb College. 



1922] THE vitamine's the thing 335 



THE VITAMINE'S THE THING 

The Vitamine's a bashful thing, 

We've never seen his face, 
But they say he's vital to the health 

Of the whole human race. 

The scientists discovered him 

Just a short while ago. 
And ever since they've found him out 

Wherever he could go. 

They analyzed a cabbage plant, 

They found the vita mine, 
And now they say he's to be found 

In everything that's green. 

They looked in butter, milk, and cheese, 

The vitamine was there; 
And so they say, "Drink lots of milk, 

If your health needs repair." 

As if all this were not enough 

They still gave him no peace 
They went and tracked him to his lair 

In — would you think it? Yeast! 

So now, you know, it's quite the thing 

To count your vitamines. 
They're even more important still 

Than calories, it seems. 

Poor, shy, retiring vitamine 

So in the public eye! 
They've found every retreat, to which 

The bashful thing could fly. 

Elizabeth CoRNEUtrs, 
Class 9a, Public Schools, 
Baltimore, Maryland 



EDITORIAL 

THE CALL TO CORVALLIS 

Most of us believe that the next five years will prove the most sig- 
nificant period in the growth and development of home economics. The 
test made of us during the war was severe and telling but it opened the 
door to a larger opportunity. The present period of economic and incus- 
trial readjustment is challenging us more seriously than the war, and it 
■will take the collective wisdom, training, and faith of all of us to meet it. 

You need to go to CorvaUis for your own sake, because you need the con- 
tacts with your own profession. You need to understand and believe in and 
help create the new viewpoint, and to reinterpret the meaning and function 
of home economics. 

The American Home Economics Association needs every one of the thirty 
thousand women who are directing some kind of home economics work, needs 
you for the contribution you can make to your profession; needs your help 
in developing policies and a constructive, forward-looking program of work; 
needs you because you are an organic part of our big professional group. 

Every indication points to one of the most stimulating, worth while meetings 
the Association has ever held. With the "Home Economics Special" train, 
providing a two-day stop-over in Glacier National Park; with a general and 
section program vieing with all others in the past for distinguished men and 
women participating; with the cordial hospitahty of Oregon awaiting you, how 
can you as a home economics woman afford to miss it? 

Mary E. Sweeny. 

Home Economics Journalism. It would seem that we, as home 
economics women, are waking up to the possibilities of our own particu- 
lar kind of journalism. We are realizing that we should take note of 
the importance of this kind of work in the training of our students, 
for, until fairly recently we have not recognized a golden opportunity. 
It is unfair to the women of this country that so much unauthentic 
copy has appeared in the women's magazines and daily press, written 
in a popular style by persons unfitted for the work of presenting home 
economics material but with the ability to write copy which they can 
put across. One inaccurate recipe for a cake may cause the waste of 
quantities of material. This is only one small example to illustrate the 
point. We could give hundreds of others. 

When we write an article for the household department of a woman's 

magazine we have a great audience, great not only in numbers but great 

in possibilities, because if we have done our part we have given our readers 

that which will be of real use to them in the business of better living. 

336 



1922] EDITORL\L 337 

So we can say home economics journalism may be a service. It is only 
one form of teaching. We like to think of it as one phase of extension 
work. 

Our problem is that of the average woman. Do we meet her half 
way? The editors say that many times we do not meet her on her 
own ground. It is for this reason that they accept so much material 
that lacks the real meat which we could give, but presented, as they think, 
from a more sjnnpathetic or popular point of view. We grant that we 
need training as to the best way of presenting our material but the edi- 
tors should have a greater knowledge of the content of our work. 
Recipes have their place in the women's magazines, but home economics 
has a greater contribution to make than page after page of this kind of 
material. There are plenty of good cook books. 

Where are we going to get that ability to write good "copy?" Some 
of us have achieved it to a greater or lesser degree by experience but 
cannot we simplify the matter by making a point of training our girls 
along the lines of publicity while they are taking their home economics 
work. Courses in English are not enough. Cannot schools of Jour- 
nalism and Home Economics Departments cooperate? 

In present day terminology the magazines are great broadcasting 
stations through which we can send to all parts of the world material 
that people need. Here is an opportunity for us. The work is a big 
one. It takes all sorts of perseverance and an almost uncanny intuition 
and knowledge of, not only what women want, but what they need, 
if we are to write good household material. The unseenness of the 
audience is another difficulty. Those who write miss the inspiration 
which comes from meeting one's audience face to face. 

We must not let our girls who are planning to be home economics 
journalists think that a course in home economics and a collection of 
note books and text books, collected while in school, will give them an 
abundance of material about which to write. A girl may think that she 
is fitted to write for the household department of a woman's magazine. 
She has heard the pay is good, and it is, and the prospect is otherwise 
attractive, so she immediately attempts, after finishing her academic 
work, to write articles and have them accepted, and she wonders why 
they are returned with a polite thank you and a statement saying that 
the material is not fitted for the special needs of this particular magazine. 
It is a fact that no home economics person should sit at a desk and simply 
write. What the magazine readers need was well expressed by one 
editor when she said, "Our readers want the very things these women 



338 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

know but they do not want class room theory, they want theory filtered 
through practical experience;" and so we would say, "Do your writing 
as a side-line and as the logical result of some real active work you are 
doing." It should then be live, practical, and appealing. Then and 
then only can we claim the field giving the women that for which there is 
a crying need, — good substantial material which has all the dignity and 
power of well-presented material in the class room but adapted to the 
lives of the women for whom we are writing. 

We have said that, as home economics women, we are waking up to 
the possibilities of our own particular kind of journalism. For the 
last two years this subject has had its place on the program of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association. This year it will also be discussed. 
The April meeting of the Home Economics Association of Greater New 
York was devoted entirely to this subject. There were present repre- 
sentatives from many of the leading women's magazines and news- 
papers. Martha Van Rensselaer of the Home Economics Department 
of Cornell University and Editor of the Homemaking Department of 
the Delineator, began the discussion. She said in part: 

For a long time we were busy determining what the home economics field 
was. We were busy, first, with teaching, we became busy with public speak- 
ing, and then filling people's minds with home economics subject matter. 
A medium has pressed itself upon our attention from the time bulletins were 
written, which we have not dignified before by the name of home economics 
journalism, but writing has been a medium of giving to the people the contents 
of the subject matter in home economics. We have underestimated its value. 
The research work has kept people's minds intent upon laborator>- processes. 
Teaching has given a frame of mind to a person, which made it difficult to 
change the method of presentation. Those who have taken up home eco- 
nomics professionally, so far without exception, must have a desire to pass 
it on to some one else. Even the research worker must do that; the teacher 
does it; the public speaker does it. I have been much interested in hearing 
a few comments upon the value of writing in reference to home economics or 
in reference to any subject which we think is good for the people. A gentle- 
man who has done some very wonderful work in child welfare said that he 
had come to a point, now, where he wanted to make known what he had 
found. He went to educational organizations to speak, but he believed that 
he would spend a large amount of time in travelling without reaching more 
than a few in comparison with the number which he might reach if he wrote 
for a magazine which had a large circulation. He was willing to place 
his important material in a magazine which would be far-reaclung in its 
circulation. 

Genoise Brown Short, 
Editor Housewives' Forimj, Pictorial Reiiew. 



1922] OPEN FORUM 339 

Mary Henley Peacock, senior instructor in the Department of 
Foods and Cookery, Teachers College, died April 7, 1922. 

Miss Peacock made to the Department of Foods and Cookery a last- 
ing contribution in organizing a number of the fundamental courses, 
and in training some of the most successful members of the staff. 

Miss Peacock was graduated from Earlham College in 1898 and from 
Drexel Institute in 1901. Before coming to Teachers College she was 
instructor in dietetics in the Training School for Nurses at Johns Hopkins 
Hospital. Miss Peacock became a member of the staff of the depart- 
ment at the opening of the School of Practical Arts in the fall of 1909. 



OPEN FORUM 

Xote: The following contributions have been sent to the Journal in connection with the 
article, Standardization of the Practice Field, by Katharine Fisher, published in the Open 
Forum, March, 1922. 

The Drexel Institute. We give the students four different prob- 
lems, cafeteria, tea room, dormitory, and hospital. In each case they 
are under the supervision of a member of our faculty. In the first three 
cases, they plan the menus, plan the work for themselves and servants, 
prepare the food, and figure costs. In the hospitals, the students stay 
for five days, and are given an opportunity to observe the work of the 
various departments and to take over certain duties under the direct 
supervision of the hospital dietitian who, in turn, renders a report on each 
student's work to the professor. We feel that our great lack is that the 
students are not given the opportunity to do the actual buying, and we 
hope to include that in the work in the near future. 

Grace Godfrey, 
Professor of Domestic Science. 

University of Nebraska. At present the only practice field under 
the supervision of the institutional management division is our Woman's 
Commons, a dining room in one of the cottage dormitories, where we 
serve about fifty girls. I do not believe this is large enough to give the 
students much idea of institutional work. 



340 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [juty 

The practical work given this year has included work in the kitchen, 
salad room, dining room, and office of the Commons. The Students 
have been given the entire responsibility of the dining room for a day. 
In addition to this, the students have worked in a local tea room, in 
the high school and Y. W. C. A. cafeterias, and have observed in one of 
the hospitals. It has been impossible to give much supervision when 
the students were working in places in town. The reaction of the girls 
is that they have been given too much routine work, and have not been 
allowed to take the responsibility for any one big piece of work. They 
feel that they have been hampered because of the short period (two 
hours once a week), but they have learned to see things from the em- 
ployee's stand point, and they realize that the manager must know how 
to do all the work she requires of her employees. 

We have a wonderful opportunity to give students excellent practical 
training, for there are two large cafeterias, one on each campus, besides 
the Commons, which can be run with profit, either as a dining room or 
as a campus tea room. We hope, in the future, to have all of these under 
one trained director, who will supervise and have entire charge of the 
buying. 

I believe that students need a course in the practical routine work of 
the kitchen, bake shop, salad room, and dining room, before they are 
ready for any theory. They must have something as a background, 
or they cannot be expected to get a great deal of real benefit from purely 
theoretical work. A second course is also necessary, after completing 
the other courses, in which the student is given the responsibility for the 
actual running of the place, in order that she may acquire confidence 
in herself, and at the same time, give the supervisor an opportunity to 
"size up" her ability as a manager. 

In this, the college must recognize the necessity for adequate time 
to be given to practical work, and must cooperate, in arranging other 
courses, so that students may spend longer periods of time with no other 
classes to interfere. Otherwise, it is impossible for them to see any 
institutional work as a whole. I shall be most interested in seeing what 
other universities contribute on the question of practice fields, for I 
feel that it is a very vital thing, and one which must be developed and 
more thoroughly organized, if our students are to qualify as trained 
women. 

Frances Dxinning, 
Head Inslulional Management. 



1922] OPEN roRUM 341 

Lewis Institute. We offer three established courses in institutional 
management which are not ideal, but do give the students some valuable 
experience. We realize that the mere planning of menus and recipes 
and the ordering of supplies is only a fraction of the duties of an institu- 
tional manager. She needs to know how to perform the greater part of 
the activities which take place in the average institution for two reasons: 
first, to have an appreciation of the time, energ}', and skill involved in 
their performance; second, to have sufficient knowledge of these duties 
to instruct intelligently her future employees, should the necessity arise. 
The future manager needs to come in contact with the problems of the 
management of employees, co-workers, and patrons and guests of the 
institution, to know something of their inter-relationships as units of 
the whole. 

The Lewis Institute is fortunate in its facilities for practice work, as 
we can take advantage of the fact that day school closes at three o'clock 
and evening school begins at four o'clock. The equipment is also a 
great help. We have a fair-sized lunchroom, with a smaller dining room 
adjoining, and desirable kitchens located on the fifth floor. A small 
bakery and a laundry on the sixth floor, a small women's dormitory 
in the Institute block, and a cafeteria and kitchens on the second floor. 
The laundry, bake-shop, and dormitory have been used as successful 
practice fields. The cafeteria is used at present for institutional prac- 
tice, but not for formal instruction. 

The first course in institutional management is handled as follows: 
The number in the class varies from ten to fourteen. The fifth floor 
kitchens and dining rooms are used as a laboratory, and table d'hote 
lunches are served four days per week to from sixty to one hundred 
persons each day. The length of the term is twelve weeks. The 
fifth day each week is devoted to lectures, discussions, and field trips. 
The method of operating the lunchroom daily with a few minutes daily 
for discussion has been tried, but we returned to the first plan. The 
laboratory period is two hours and a half in length. With few exceptions 
the foods are prepared and served in the laboratory period. Pressure 
cookers, a power mixing machine, dish-washer, and power ice-crusher 
and freezer are the main labor saving devices. The utensils used in 
the preparation of the meal are washed by the students, but the dishes 
are washed by a paid worker. The distribution of a class of fourteen 
to serve one hundred is as follows: manager, assistant manager, head 
waitress, four waitresses, three pantry girls, two pastry cooks, and two 



342 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

meat and vegetable cooks. Each office is held for two days at a time. 
Thus each office is held at least twice during the term. 

The tea room routine is somewhat different. The class hour is from 
three to five; the serving period is from three fifteen to four fifteen. 
While most of the day-school patrons indulge in dainties, the menu 
offers enough variation so that the evening school students who come to 
four o'clock classes, can select a substantial lunch. All ices and ice 
creams are made, frozen, andpacked by student service earlier in the day. 
The dishes are washed in the machine by members of the class. The 
class consists of a manager, cashier and checker, head waitress, waitresses, 
cook, baker, and assistant. 

Each class supplements its course with field trips; and plans the floor 
plan, equipment, decorative scheme, etc., for some type of institution as 
a term paper. 

A longer period, say one half day, would be more satisfactory, but 
the classes develop skill and speed. 

Grace Gordon Hood, 
Professor of Home Economics. 



Calories from Eskimo Pie and Ice Cream Sandwich. A high 
school class in dietetics in the Minneapolis Public Schools determined 
the calories in Eskimo Pie and Ice Cream Sandwich both of which 
cost 10 cents in the school lunch room. 

The chocolate was removed from the Eskimo Pie and weighed, and 
the energy content calculated. The ice cream was weighed and the 
calories calculated (Rose). Total calories, 158. 

The "Nabisco" and its sugar coating were removed from the Ice Cream 
Sandwich and weighed and the calories determined separately. The 
ice cream was weighed and the calories calculated. Total calories, 199. 

Butterfat in the ice cream of both the Pie and the Sandwich was 
determined by the Babcock method. The fat content in both was 
identical. 

Jessie Capijn, 
West High School, Minneapolis. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The Vitamins. By H. C. Sherman and 
S. L. SsuTH. Xew York: The Chemical 
Catalog Co., 1922, pp. 273. S4.00. 
This is one of the series of scientific and 
technologic monographs now being issued 
by the American Chemical Society. This 
new endeavor of the society has for its 
avowed purposes two rather distinct aims. 
"The first purpose . . . . is to pre- 
sent the knowledge available upon the 
chosen topic in a readable form, intelligible 
to those (chemists) whose activities may be 
along a wholly different Line .... 
The second purpose is to promote research 
in the branch of science covered by the 
monograph, by furnishing a well digested 
survey of the progress already made in that 
field and by pointing out directions in 
which investigation needs to be extended." 
The monograph by Sherman and Smith is 
so excellent an e.xample of practical fulfill- 
ment of both these purposes, that one can 
only congratulate the editors upon the 
fact that this contribution has appeared 
early enough in the series to set an enviable 
standard for later numbers. 

The book consists of a preface, five chap- 
ters, a bibliography, and index. The first 
chapter contains a brief but excellently 
balanced description of the early history of 
vitamin investigations. There is less that 
is unique in this part perhaps than in the 
three succeeding chapters. 

The second chapter, entitled conserva- 
tively the antineuritic vitamin (and, or) 
vitamin B, contains detailed reports of 
experimental methods. Here are given 
a complete and satisfactorj' summary of 
the attempts of Funk, Williams, Seidell, 
and others at chemical isolation and synthe- 
sis of the antineuritic substance; full dis- 
cussion of the evidence upon the question of 
the identity of this substance with the 
vitamin B of McCollum, Osborne and 
Mendel, Drummond, and others who 
observed growth stimulation in young 
animals rather than the cure of polyneu- 
ritis; a summary of such physiological find- 
ings upon the r61e of this substance as have 



been reported by McCarrison, Karr, and 
others, and upon the yeast growth method 
of measuring the vitamin B content of watery 
extracts of foods; a list of investigations up- 
on the occurrence of this substance in nature, 
with brief discussion of the findings for each 
class of foods; and finally a summarj' of the 
properties and occurrence of vitamin B. 

The third chapter deals in somewhat 
similar detail with the antiscorbutic \-itamin 
— vitamin C. The characteristics of experi- 
mental scurvy and the distribution of the 
antiscorbutic substance in foods is given the 
major amount of attention, very little 
emphasis being placed upon the clinical 
phase of the problem. An excellent dis- 
cussion of the evidence as to the practical 
bearing of cooking and preserving processes 
upon the vitamin C content of foods is a 
feature of unusual value to teachers of 
nutrition and food preparation. 

The fourth chapter is entitled the fat- 
soluble vitamin — vitamin A. The much 
discussed question of the stability of this 
substance is carefully reviewed, as is also its 
possible relation to the lipochromes. There 
are given, as for the other two vitamins, 
a full statement as to occurrence and estima- 
tion in animal and vegetable tissues and 
products, a valuable list of references to all 
reported occurrences of this vitamin in 
food materials, and a rational discussion 
of its relation to ophthalmias, reproduction, 
dentition, and rickets. The treatment of 
the last named subject, rickets, is e.xceed- 
ingly brief in comparison with that accorded 
other topics, and in view of the importance 
of the problem and the amount of active 
investigation going on at present. 

The last chapter entitled "vitamins in the 
problem of the food supply" will probably 
prove to be of the greatest interest of all 
to dietitians, teachers of nutrition, physi- 
cians, and others concerned with the appli- 
cation of laboratory findings to practical 
feeding problems. It seems to the writer 
of this re\'iew, however, an unncessary ad- 
dition from the point of view of the guiding 
purpose of the monograph. Those who are 
343 



344 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



interested in advancing investigation upon 
vitamin occurrence and function will have 
no particular use for this well balanced dis- 
cussion, and those who can profit most from 
this chapter will make little use of the pre- 
ceding careful presentation of the evidence. 
The familiar table of distribution of 
vitamins in investigated food materials 
first published in Report No. 38 of the 
British Medical Research Committee and 
modified by M. S. Rose, is reprinted in the 
last chapter. One feels some regret that 
an attempt at a quantitative summary 
had not been made instead. It is probably 
not too soon to look for a compilation of 
more detailed and definite character which 
should contain information as to method 
of preparation or preservation of the food 
tested, type of experiment used, appro.xi- 
mate figures in grams per day required for 
normal growth or prevention of charac- 
teristic disease, and full reference to the 
literature. The present table is, however, 
of value for the practical purpose for which 
the last chapter of this book was written. 
The bibliography of 25 pages containing 
some 900 to 1000 separate references is 
perhaps the most complete and most nearly 
correct collection of references to the litera- 
ture on vitamins which has so far been 
compiled. The excellent indices, by authors 
and by subjects, round out the careful 
workmanship and exceptional usefulness of 
the book. 

In conclusion it must be stated that the 
monograph, in addition to its service to 
investigators, can hardly fail to join the 
ranks of the volumes reckoned as indis- 
pensable in the library of the student, 
teacher, and practitioner of modern scien- 
tific nutrition. 

Agnes Fay Morgan, 
University of California. 

Positions of Responsibility in Department 
Stores and Other Retail Selling Organ- 
izations. By Mary H. Tolman, New 
York: 1921, pp. 125. S0.60. The Bureau 
of Vocational Information. 
This volume, the fifth in a series of occu- 
pational studies prepared by The Bureau 
of Vocational Information, of New York 



City, presents in a very adequate manner 
woman's opportunity in department store 
work. Here we find assembled and recorded 
facts concerning positions of responsibility 
now held by women; the customary details 
of the work involved in these positions; 
the training, e.xperience, physique, and per- 
sonal qualities which have been found nec- 
essary; the advantages and disadvantages 
in this field of work, and the opportunities 
afforded with special reference to women of 
higher education. 

The material is national in scope, embrac- 
ing data gathered in 176 different -tores in 
32 states and lower Canada. Information 
was obtained by questionnaires and letters 
from merchants, and by interviews with, 
and questionnaires and letters from, 
employed women. The bases for the study 
are, therefore, adequate and substantial. 
A very well selected reading list and a chart 
showing typical store organization add fur- 
ther value. 

For clear analysis, the author divides 
Department Store work into six sections: 
store organization, merchandising, adver- 
tising, store service, accounting, allied work 
outside the store. 

Very few women are found holding impor- 
tant positions in store organization; the 
men are not very apt to let these slip into 
women's hands for some time to come. 
The merchandising section, on the contrary, 
is largely confined to women. Although 
but a small number of college women have 
interested themselves in this particular 
branch of store work and although very few 
have reached the highest places, there is 
unusual opportunity in this section for the 
educated girl. The advertising section is 
gradually being opened to women, but so 
recently that few have risen to managerial 
positions. The care of equipment and of 
the building offers very little opportunity. 
The administration of personnel, on the 
other hand, is generally considered the most 
promising and attractive work open to 
women and it is in this division of store 
service that we find the greatest number of 
women. The accounting section holds 
small allure and entrusts women with less 
responsibility than any other department 



1922] 



BOOKS AND LITER.A.TURE 



345 



of the store. Allied work outside the store, 
in research, trade papers, and schools, 
offers countless positions suitable for, and of 
interest to, trained women. Aside from 
teaching salesmanship, they have not as yet 
qualified for them to any considerable 
extent. 

The conclusion drawn from the study is 
that there is unUmited opportunity for 
women, especially for college women, in 
department store work. Their failure in 
the past has been due to a lack of real 
purpose and ambition. 

The book is well written and should be of 
great interest and help to educators, to 
merchants, and to women who contemplate 
entering store service. 

LORN.\ DiETZ. 



capacity in law offices. The rest are dis- 
tributed in various lines, reporting, sten- 
ography, editorial work, social work, busi- 
ness, and positions that make no use what- 
ever of legal training, .\lthough the author 
definitely stipulates that the material in 
hand does not justify definite conclusions, 
nevertheless the median salary for the group 
(51800.00) does not seem to indicate even 
moderate success for the average woman 
trained in law. 

The book is terse, well-written and a val- 
uable reference for information regarding 
general requirements, training for legal 
work, and opportunities for women inter- 
ested in law. 

LORNA DiETZ. 



Women in the Law. By Beatrice 

DoERSCHUK. The Bureau of Vocational 

Information. 

This study, the third of the series of 
occupational studies prepared by the Bureau 
of Vocational Information, contains an 
analysis of training, practice, and salaried 
positions available for women lawyers. It 
is a handy compendium, including a table of 
the law schools which admit women stu- 
dents, a table of the number of women admit- 
ted to the bar, a list of government positions 
for which legal training is a preparation, a 
list of bar associations admitting women 
to membership, and a list of women lawyers' 
associations, .\bout one-sLxth of the book is 
given over to information regarding occu- 
pations other than the practice of the law, 
for which legal training is advantageous. 
This would seem to indicate that women 
have not been very successful practitioners. 
Data for the study were collected from 
questionnaires sent to 827 women lawyers, 
297 of whom replied; from school cata- 
logues; from state offices; and from inter- 
views with individual lawyers, both men 
and women. 

The results of the questionnaires are rather 
disappointing. Only one-third answered, 
and of the evidently successful group, only 
50 per cent are actually practising law; an 
additional 11 per cent are working in some 



Cakes, Cookies, and Confections. Pastries 
and Desserts. Salads, Vegetables, and 
the Market Basket. Compiled by the 
Southern Section of the California Home 
Economics Association. $.50 each, $1.30 
a set; postage $.05. Orders filled by 
Essie Elliott, Manual Arts High School, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

An original cover design printed in colors 
on a delicate shade of antique paper, with 
an envelope of the same paper to encase 
each book, and an outer envelope enclosing 
all, make this set of recipe books a most 
attractive gift packet for the homemaker. 
The recipes are adapted to home and school 
needs and have been tested by the compilers. 
Each group of recipes is preceded by general 
directions and information in regard to food 
values. The books are now in their second 
edition. 

The Sponge Cake Family. By Mary 
LomsE Mehser, Friends University, 
Wichita. Kansas. $.50. 
This booklet gives as standard recipes, 
for sponge cake and mock sponge cake, 
angle food and mock angel food, the pro- 
portions found to be most satisfactory in a 
series of experiments carried out after com- 
paring a great variety of recipes. It also 
discusses materials needed and methods 
used in making the cakes. 



346 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



Aids to Family Catering. The University 

of Washington Home Economics Club, 

Seattle, 1921, pp. 40. $0.50. 

A very useful book for the homemaker, 
whether experienced or inexperienced, has 
been compiled by the Home Economics 
Club at the University of Washington. 

The planning, preparing, and serving of 
meals are presented under the following 
headings: Essentials of an Adequate Diet, 
Suggestions for Planning Meals, Recipes, 
Table Service. 

Under the guidance of this verj* complete 
but concise aid, even the inexperienced 
homemaker should find it easy to cater 
adequately and attractively for her family 
or for guests. 

Personal Budgets for Employed Women. By 
Mrs. Maiue Ldtters Stanton. Archi- 
tectural and Economic Bureau, National 
Board, Y. W. C. A., New York City. 
Price 20 cents. 

Budgets of $1200, $1500, $1800, $2000, and 
S2400 a year are suggested for business 
women living away from home, with sched- 
ules of clothing, food, and other items, and 
concrete suggestions as to ways of putting 
one's expenditure upon a budget basis. 
These budgets are an admirable supplement 
to the account book for professional women 
which was published some time ago by the 
National Board of the Y. W. C. A. Both 
can be secured by addressing the Womans 
Press. 600 Lexington .\ve., N. Y C 

Black's Simple Cookery and Household Man- 
agement. Edited by Edinburgh School 
of Cookery. London: A. & C. Black, Ltd., 
1920, pp. 116. Price 5/- net. 
This book is devoted to a discussion of the 
economical selection and preparation of 
food, particularly as adapted to the needs of 
the small household in Great Britain, and 
suggestions are given as to the control of 
waste and good marketing methods. Food 
values are considered in a simple way, but 
the information given is very inadequate 
and somewhat misleading when \'iewed in 
the light of present day knowledge of nutri- 
tion problems. 



Fish Cookery. By Evelene Spencer and 

John N. Cobb. Boston: Little, Brown 

and Company, 1921, pp. 346. S2.00. 

This very interesting book contains full 

directions for the cleaning and cooking of 

all fish found in the markets of the United 

States. It gives information regarding 

seasons, price, and nature of fish, and 

ought to be of the greatest value to the 

teacher of cookery. 

The recipes are interesting and varied, 
and should relieve the monotony of fish 
cookery due to a lack of knowledge on the 
part of housekeepers and teachers. 

Bertha E. Shapleigh. 

A Book of Recipes for the Cooking School. 
By Carrie Alberta Lyford. Hampton 
Normal and Agricultural Institute, Hamp- 
ton, Va. 1921, pp. 299. SI. 50. 
While there would seem to be little need 
for the type of book written by Miss Lyford, 
it is accurate, except for one or two typo- 
graphical errors, and will undoubtedly 
be of value to those who use it. 

Food Charts. The Office of Home Eco- 
nomics of the United States Department of 
Agriculture has recently issued a set of 
eight Food Selection and Meal Planning 
Charts based upon a week's supply for a 
"type" or "average" family, consisting of 
two adults and three children. 

These charts represent a development in 
popularizing scientific knowledge of nutri- 
tion, and they should prove useful to 
teachers, extension workers, club leaders, 
social service workers, and others. 

The supply of charts available for free 
distribution is limited but they may be 
purchased fi-om the Superintendent of 
Documents, Government Printing Office, 
Washingt.jn, U. C, for 50 cents a set. 

A Weef's Food Supply, by Caroline L. 
Hunt, Farmers' Bulletin 1228, enlarges on 
the information given in the charts and 
indicates how they may serve as the basis of 
instruction in 'ood selection. A copy of 
this bulletin will be mailed free as long as 
the supply lasts. 



1922] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOlVnCS 



347 



The Care of Leather, U. S. Dept. Agr. 
Farmers' Bulletin 1183, is again available 
for free distribution. This bulletin, written 
by F. P. Veitch, H. P. Holman, and R. W. 
Frey of the Leather and Paper Laboratory 
of the Bureau of Chemistry, contains prac- 
tical suggestions on the selection and care of 
shoes and other leather articles and gives 
several tested waterproofing formulas. 

Chimneys and Fireplaces — Ho-j.' to Build 
Them is another Farmers' Bulletin which 
seems worth bringing to the attention of 
workers trained in home economics. Every- 
thing about the construction of fireplaces 
and chimneys is carefully considered in this 
publication. 



Hospital Division Circular No. 195, Bureau 
of the Public Health Service, Washington, 
D. C. This circular is issued to Medical 
Officers in charge of U. S. Marine and U. S. 
Public Health Service Hospitals, to Dieti- 
tians, and others concerned. It gives 
instructions relative to subsistence proposals 
and the purchase of supplies, including 
specifications as to quality and suggestions 
as to the best brands and the most economi- 
cal amounts to buy. 



How John and Mary Save on S35 a Week. 

Chicago: The American School of Home 

Economics. SO. 10. 

Under the above practical title an eight- 
page booklet gives suggestions for a home 
savings club, a family reserve fund, and 
allowances for necessary expenses. A simple 
method of recording all these is presented 
under the "weekly allowance table" on the 
last page. 

The Pictorial Review has published a series 
of popular nutrition articles under the gen- 
eral heading "Eat and Be Healtliy." Genoise 
B. Short of New York City and Harriet 
T. Barto of the Department of Home 
Economics, University of Illinois have col- 
laborated in its preparation. They pre- 
sent to the housewife and her family the 
fundamental facts that every one should 
know, in order to select food intelligently 
and with the greatest benefit to general 
health. The first two articles are "Eating 
to Stay Slender" and "Building Up To The 
Health Line" in the February and March 
issues, respectively. These are followed 
by four others taking up special diets, the 
common foods, the bride and her food 
problems, and feeding the whole family. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



Periodical Literature 
Food and Nutrition 

Bushnell, L. D. Influence of Vacuum on Growth of Some Aerobic Spore Bearing Bacteria. 

J.Bact., 1922,7:283-300. 
Delf, E. M. Studies in E.xperimental Scurvy with Special Reference to Antiscorbutic 

Properties of Some South .i^frican Foodstuffs. Lancet, 1922, 1 : 576-578. 
Dublin, L. I. Height and Weight Standards in Nutrition Work Among Children of Foreign 

Parentage. Hosp. Soc. Serv., 1922, 3: 419-422. 
Fred, E. B. and Peterson, W. H. Production of Pink Sauerkraut by Yeasts. /. Bact., 

1922, 7:257-270. 
Funnell, E. H. Nutrition Work in a Hospital Dispensary. Mod. Hosp., 1922, 18: 364-365. 
Hashimoto, H. Carotinoid Pigmentation of the Skin Resulting from a Vegetarian Diet. 

J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922,78: 1111, 1112. 
Heinz, A. M. Food Knowledge, the Basis of Control. Nations Health, 1922, 4:242-244. 
Hess, A. F. Newer Aspects of the Rickets Problem. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922,78: 1177- 

1183. 



348 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Hill, L. and Campbell, J. A. Metabolism of Children Undergoing Open Air Treatment, 

Heliotherapy, and Balneotherapy. Bril. Med. /., 1922, 1 : 301-304. 
McCollum, E. v., Simmonds, N., Kinney, M., Shipley, P. G., and Park, E. A. Studies on 

Experimental Rickets, XVH. Effects of Diets Deficient in Calcium and in Fat Soluble 

A in Modifying Histological Structure of Bones. Am. J. Hyg., 1922, 2: 97-106. 
Meigs, E. B. Milk Secretion as Related to Diet. Physiol. Rev., 1922, 2 : 204-237. 
O'Hara, D. A Chart for the Rapid Estimation of Woodyatt's Optimal Diabetic Diet. 

/. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 1124. 
Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B. Distribution of Vitamin B in Some Vegetable Foods. 

/. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 1121, 1122. 
Proudfit, F. T. Food Habits and Customs of the Negro Race in the South. Hasp. Sac. 

Serv., 1922, 5:233-241. 
Thatcher, R. W. Recent Advances in Plant Chemistry. J. Ind. Eng. Cliem., 1922, 14: 335. 
^Vheeler, G. A. Treatment and Prevention of Pellagra by a Daily Supplemental Meal. 

/. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 955-957. 
Whiteman, R. T. and Wilkinson, E. A. Outbreak of Botulism at Cambridge, Idaho. J. 

Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78:1278, 1279. 
Wilder, R. M., Boothby, W. M., and Beeler, C. Studies of the Metabolism of Diabetes. 

J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 61 : 311-357. 
Youngken, H. W. Dehydration and the Preservation of Food. 5a. Mo., 1922, 14: 332-344 

Clothing and Textiles 

Briggs, J. F. The Dyeing of Acetyl Silk. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 243, 244. 

Cook, A. A. Tin Weighting in Silk. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 2219, 2221. 

Darby, W. D. Silk the Queen of Fabrics. Dry Goods Econ., No. 4056: 37, 38; No. 4057: 

35, 37. 

. Wool, the World's Comforter. Dry Goods Econ., No. 4058: 30, 31; No. 4059: 24, 25. 

Duhem, E. Bleaching and Dyeing of Jute. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 255-258. 

Hayes, F. A. Chemical Research and Te.xtile Industry. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 2323, 2325. 

Hubbart, Guy. Community "Scales Analysis" Has Served the Day for Volume More 

Than Once. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4056:23, 24, 183. 
McDowell, J. The Need of ilore Exact Fibre Knowledge. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2065, 

2109. 
Schofield, J. Saponification Scouring of Wool. Textile World, 1922, 61 : 2077, 2079. 
Schroeder, C. M. E. The Control of Chlorine in the Bleaching of Cotton Goods, Textile 

Colorist, 1922, 44: 238, 239. 
Fast Color Dyeing in the Wool Industry. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 248. 
Fastness of Color Always a Relative Term. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4058: 13, 14. 
Price Buying by Retailers Largely to Blame for Complaints About Lack of Fast Dyes. 

Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4056: 63. 
Tariff BiU Out of Senate Finance Committee. Textile World, 1922, 61:2189,2195-2197. 

Miscellaneous 

Bettman, R. B. Common Foot Troubles as Indicated by Shoes. Nations Health, 1922, 

4:194-196. 
Knox, J. H. JI. WTiat a Health Center May Mean to a Community. Arch. Fed., 1922, 

39:170-179. 
Proctor, M. Humanizing the Hospital Kitchen. Mod. Bosp., 1922, 18: 362-363. 
Predominating Defects in Pre-School Children. Nations Health, 1922, 4: 251. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

PRELIiIIN.\RY PROGRAM 

Fifteenth Annual Meeting 

AMEEJCAX HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCUTION 

Oregon Agricultural College, Corvali.is, Oregon, August 1-S, 1922 

tuesday, august 1 

2:00 p. m. Opening Session 

Address of Welcome, Mary Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 

Council Meeting. Open to everyone 

Reception 

8:00 p. m. General Session 
Address of Welcome 

William J. Kerr, President Oregon Agricultural College 
A Unified Program of Extension Work for the Home 

Florence A. Ward, Extension Work vdth Women, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture 
The Educational Program of the American Hotel Association 

L. S. Hawkins, Dlr. Dept. Educ, United Typothetae of .\merica 
Home Economics and the Business World 

Bess Rowe, Extension Editor, The Farmer's Wife, St. Paul 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2 

9:00 a. m. Food and Nutrition Section 

Nutrition and the Present Health Crusade 
Health Classes in the Public Schools 

Martha Koehne, Assistant Professor Home Economics, University of Wash. 
Nutrition in Elementary Schools 

Edna White, Director Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit, Michigan 
Home Economics for Boys 

Mary Ruth Fisher, Supervisor of Home Economics, Twinn Falls, Idaho 
Health Clinics: The Pre-school .-\ge 

Dr. Ulysses Moore, Portland 
Training Teachers for Health Class Teaching 

Dr. Caroline Hedger, Chicago 

Velma Phillips, State Normal School, Dillon, Montana 
Plans for Teaching Practical Nutrition to the Public 

How to Reach the Mother, Nurse, Business Woman, Factory Worker 

Marguerite Mallon, Purdue University 

Margaret Smith, Oregon Agricultural College 
Nutrition: Its Application in Commercial and Institutional Problems 

Gudrun Carlson, Teachers College, Columbia University 

9:00 a. m. Home Management Conference 

The Need for the .^pphcation of the Fundamental Principles of Home Economics to the Home 
S. Agnes Donham, Educational Director, Association for Promotion and Protection 
of Savings, Boston 
The Organization and Administration of Home Management Work 

A. Grace Johnson, Head Household -Administration, Oregon Agricultural College 
Round Table Discussion 

Efhe I. Raitt, Head Home Economics, University of Washington, and others 

349 



350 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

9:00 a. m. Home Economics in Business Conference 

The Home Economics Work of Business Organizations 

In Textiles. Martha J. Phillips, North American Dye Corporation 

In Foods. Louise Fitzgerald, National Dairy Council 

In Household Management. S. Agnes Donham 

Broadcasting Home Economics through the Magazines. Marie Sellers, Pictorial 

Review 
Teaching Classes of Half a Million. Mrs. Emmons, The Modern Priscilla 
The Relation of the Home Economics Teacher and the Extension Worker to Business 
Round Table Discussion. Led by Helen Louise Johnson 

8:00 p. m. General Session 

What the Community Owes the Child 

Dr. Caroline Hedger 
Woman's Part in a National Health Program 

Annie W. Goodrich, Nursing and Health Department, Teachers College, Columbia 
University 
Child Welfare (Subject to be announced later) 

Harriet Vittum, Northwestern University Settlement 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 3 

9:00 a. m. Textile Section 

WTiat the Homemaker Wants to Know About Clothing 

Ethelwyn Dodson, Extension Specialist in Clothing, Univ. of California 
Discussion 
A "Close-up" on the Clothing Project 

Marion MacKinnon, University of Wisconsin 
Home Projects in the 7 th and 8th Grades 

Ann Piatt, Seattle Public Schools 
Development of the Work of the Committee on Related Arts 

Winifred S. Gettemy, Michigan Agricultural College 
Discussion 

9:00 a. m. Institutional Economics Section 

The Training of Hospital Dietitians 

Lenna F. Cooper, Battle Creek Sanitarium 
The Teaching of Institutional Management and the Curriculum Necessary for Proper 
Instruction 

Emma H. Gunther, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Round Table Discussion 

9:00 a. m. Home Economics Extension Section 

Are Home Demonstration Programs of Work 

a. Educationally sound 

b. Economically important 

c. Sociologically constructive 

C. W. Pugsley, .^sst. Sec. of Agriculture, Washington, and others 
Round Table Discussion 
Legislative Problems Affecting Home Demonstration Work 

Florence E. Ward, States Relations Service, Washington, D. C. 



1922] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 351 

2:00 p. m. Business Meeting 
8:00 p. m. General Session 

International Relations 

Richard F. Scholz, President of Reed College, Portland 
Home Economics in Other Countries 

China. Emma H. Gunther and L. Ray Balderston 

Constantinople, ilrs. Alice P. Norton 

England. Emma A. \Vinslow 

New Zealand. Mrs. Ann Gilchrist Strong 
Needs and Work of Near East Relief Organization 

TRWAY, AUGUST 4 

9:00 a. m. Food and Nutrition Section 

Recent Scientific Research in Food and Nutrition 

Minna Denton, Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Agnes Fay Morgan, University of California, and others 
The Necessary Revision of our College Courses in Foods and Nutrition 

Standards of Accomplishments in the Elementary and High School Courses: 
Results to be expected from such courses 

(Speakers being arranged for) 
The Content of the First Year College Course Following the Four-year High School 
Course in Home Economics 

Margaret Fedde, University of Nebraska 

Gertrude York, University of Southern CaUfomia 
The Place of E.xperiraental and Investigational Cookery in College 

(Speakers being arranged for) 
The Content of the Second Course in Foods in College 

Ruth Wardall, University of Illinois 

Bemice AUen, Los Angeles, California 
The Content of Health Courses in College 

Helen Thompson, Dean of Home Economics, Kansas Agricultural College 

Elizabeth Emery, University of Washington 

9:00 a. m. House Administration Conference 

Home Management Work in the Extension Field 

Minerva Lawrence, Home Management Specialist, State College of Washington 
A Thrift Kitchen as an Asset in City Home Bureau Work 

Edith M. Barber, Director of Syracuse Home Bureau, Syracuse, N. Y. 
Application of Household Management to the Business Field 

Mary E. Keown, Educational Dept., Am. Washing Machine Manufacturers Assn. 

9:00 a. m. Home Economics Education Section 

Home Economics Instruction and Related Community Service 
In Part-time General Continuation Classes and Schools 

The Demand 

How to Prepare for It 
In Adult .Mtemoon and Evening Classes 

The Demand 

How to Prepare for It 

(Speakers to be announced later) 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

2:00 p. m. Textile Section 
Methods in Textile Research 

Marion Weller, University of Minnesota 
Discussion 
Testing Textiles tor a Department Store 

Rose Fraser, University of Washington 
Discussion 
Business 

2:00 p. m. Science Conference 

Standards in Home Economics Research 

Mina C. Denton, States Relations Service, Washington 
What Should be the Lines of Research in Home Economics Departments and in the Related 

Science and Art Departments 
Elizabeth Miller, Head Research Dept., Iowa State College 
Some Results Obtained from Experiments with the Respiration Calorimeter 

C. F. Langworthy, Chief Office of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 
Reports of Committees on Research 

2:00 p. m. Homemakers Conference 

Within and Without the Home 

Mrs. Josiah C. Gawler, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Yakima, Wash. 
Responsibility of Homemakers for Home Economics in Educational Programs 

Mrs. C. H. Castner, Hood River, Oregon 
(Subject to be announced) 

Mrs. Lulu Lancaster, University of Arizona 
Your Child and Mine 

Mrs. J. F. Hill, President Parent Teachers Organizations, Oregon 
Round Table Discussion 

Led by ELnora E. Thompson, Extension Division, University of Oregon 

8:00 p. m. General Session 

Educational Value of a Retailers Organization 

R. E. Bigelow, President Washington State Retailers .Association 
Present Status of Women in Industry in this Country 

Mrs. Katherine Philips Edson, Industrial Welfare Commission, State of Calif. 
Women in Industry and their Relation to Women in Agricultural Pursuits 

Mary Anderson, Chief of Women's Bureau, Washington 

SATUEDAY, AUGUST 5 

9:00 a. m. Home Economics Education Section 

Home Economics Instruction and Related Community Service 
In Elementary Schools 

The Demand 

How to Prepare for It 
In Junior High Schools 

The Demand 

How to Prepare for It 
In Regular Four Year High Schools 

The Demand 

How to Prepare for It 

(Speakers not definitely determined as yet, but are being chosen from leading 

Supervisors and Educators of the country.) 



1922] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 353 

9:00 a. m. Institutional Economics Section 

Women in Hotel Work 

Margaret Ebbitt, Assistant Manager Congress Hotel, Chicago 
Employee's Cafeteria 

S. E. Crichton, Supervisor Dining Service, Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. 
Round Table Discussion 

High School Dormitories 

College Dormitories 

Tea Rooms 

9:00 a. m. Home Economics Extension Section 

Research Problems Related to Home Demonstration Work 

Minna Denton, OflSce of Home Economics, Washington, D. C. 
Round Table Discussion 

Led by Florence Ward, Dr. Hedger, and others 
Additional Special Training for Home Demonstration Workers 

Ruby Green Smith, Ithaca, N. Y. 
Discussion from the Committee on Requirements in the Training of Home Demonstration 
Workers 

Constantinople College,' 
February 5, 1922. 
My dear Friends: 

The college is six miles from the city, or rather from Galata bridge that connects Pera 
with Stamboul and might be considered the center of the city. It stands by itself in large 
grounds, near the top of a hill overlooking the Bosphorus. This year the college is smaller 
than it has been for some years, chiefly because so many people who used to be well-to-do 
have been impoverished by the war, and because exchange is so low, or perhaps I should say 
high. The lira, or Turkish pound, that used to have the value of the English pound, is now 
worth about 68 cents, and within a few weeks has been as low as 47 cents. Last fall the 
Turkish University and the Turkish Medical School were opened to women, and this may 
have affected our attendance. Then, too, the Bulgarian girls find it much less expensive to 
go to Germany to study. 

The smaller numbers in the college mean very small classes in all departments, especially 
as the number of electives has been increased each year. My largest class is one of six 
students. Altogether I have 14 students, and five others who are taking a graduate course 
in education came to me for a few weeks as part of their course. 

Through the first semester I taught dietetics to the nurses in the American hospital in 
Stamboul seven or eight miles from here. I went down two afternoons a week. The teach- 
ing at the hospital has been more elementary than at the college, both because the girls have 
less educational background and because they have less English. 

The course that I have worked out for the college is distinctly a tentative one. It will 
take at least a year's experience before one can tell what will be most satisfactorj-. The 
course that has proved most attractive this year is the "survey" course. We began with 
a study of the house. Fortunately Dr. Hoover has been having a house built for his family 
on the college grounds, and we have been able to study that when we wished. Barton Hall, 
where I live, is an old Greek palace, and there is in it a small kitchen that was very dilapi- 
dated. We have made it over into an attractive, fairly modern kitchen where the girls can 
do some cooking under conditions that they can arrange at home. They planned the changes 
as a part of their course. Another practical problem we found near at hand. There is not 
far from us an Armenian orphanage, in a building that is very much run down, and my class 

' Extracts from a letter from Mrs. Norton to the American Home Economics Association 
for the meeting in Chicago, February 28. 



354 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Lfuly 

are "fixing up" the dining room to make it more habitable, and incidentally getting a lesson 
in house decoration. 

In my "house" class we have been comparing customs here with ours in America as well 
as with those in other countries. This has come about of necessity, for of course the only 
books we have deal with American conditions. Some time there must be a home economics 
book for this country. It has been surprising, though, to find how many conditions are 
similar, and occasionally to find better usages here. The servant problem exists here, as 
well as in America, and I was much surprised to find that there are two "community" kitchens, 
on a commercial basis, that are supplying luncheons and dinners for families. 

Some of the Turkish schools are teaching home economics. I visited a class the other 
day at Tchamlidja, across the Bosphorus, in Asia, that was taught by an .\rmenian woman 
(the school was Turkish, under Turkish government control) who had done considerable 
work toward her medical degree. The laboratory was well equipped for cooking, and consid- 
erable food theory was taught. The Turkish normal school has some work in home 
economics, and another school is training girls for teaching dressmaking. 

It is amazing to see how rapidly women here are becoming self supporting. Not only 
Greek, Armenian, and Jewish girls, but Turkish ones as well, are entering the commercial 
world. Our commercial department here has 55 students. I have come to the conclusion 
that if we are to make home economics a real success in this college we must not only work 
for the home, but must direct the work toward professions by which a girl may earn her own 
living. I have been making inquiries as to possible opportunities. The directress of the 
Tchamlidja school says that well trained teachers of home economics will have no difficulty 
in finding places. The American hospital wants a dietitian and would welcome a native girl, 
and it seems probable that soon other hospitals here will demand dietitians. Managers of 
orphanages and teachers of home economics in orphanages are needed. There may be 
openings in tea rooms, but this is more doubtful. I am going on with my inquiries, and 
perhaps can create a demand for home economics trained girls. 

I must say one word about the visit I made last summer to the International Office of 
Home Economics at Fribourg. The office is small but has a good library, and is ambitious to 
accomplish many things if it can have adequate support. Mme. Vertellot, who is in charge 
of the office, is especially aiLxious for more American members. 
With best wishes for the success of your meeting. 

Most cordially 

Alice P. Norton. 

The First Pan American Congress of Women in Industry, Mary Anderson, 

Women gathered in Baltimore, April 20, Women's Bureau, Department of Labor, 

for a three-day meeting. There were presiding; Prevention of Traffic in Women, 

present as delegates thirty-one women Dr. Valeria Parker, Executive Secretary 

representing twenty-two countries of the of the Interdepartmental Social Hygiene 

Americas. The Congress was called by the Board, presiding; Civic Status of Women, 

National League of Women Voters for the Mrs. JNIabel Walker Willebrandt, presiding; 

purpose of discussing problems of common The Political Status of Women, Mrs. Carrie 

interest to all countries of the Western Chapman Catt, presiding. Discussion on 

Hemisphere and promoting friendship among each subject was opened by a general state- 

these countries. The ultimate purpose of ment from a woman prominent in such 

the conference was peace through mutual work in the United States. Then followed 

understanding. a report, from each delegate, of the situation 

Six main topics were discussed: Child in her own country. 
Welfare, Grace Abbot, Chief of the Reports of the Latin American delegates 
Children's Bureau, presiding; Education, on the educational situation were of par- 
Julia Abbot, Bureau of Education, presiding; ticular interest. In several countries the 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



355 



institutions of higher education have been 
opened to women only in the last twenty 
years but there is a keen interest among 
women to take advantage of their present 
opportunities. A number of the countries 
have "definitely organized instruction in 
homemaking" that would compare with 
our own work in home economics. The 
state of Taumaulipas, ISIexico, is developing 
a system of nurser>' schools; Brazil teaches 
the care of children to the future mothers 
of the country through the care of homeless 
children; in Mexico the care of children 
and pre-natal care are taught in the Sunday 
Schools. 

The women of the United States dis- 
covered that we must "look to our laurels" 
in our boasted system of public school 
education. Costa Rica reported that more 
money is appropriated in that countrj- for 
education than for any other one depart- 
ment of government. 

The clima.x of the congress was the organ- 
ization of a permanent Pan American Asso- 
ciation of Women. This organization is 
provisional, but it is the hope of its organizers 
that it will become a strong factor in main- 
taining peace and friendship among the 
countries of the Americas. The aims •of 
the organization are: "To promote general 
education among all women and to secure 
for them higher standards of education; 
to secure the rights of married women to 
control their own property and their own 
wages; to secure equal guardianship; to 
encourage organization, discussion, and 
public speaking among women, and freedom 
of opportunity for all women to cultivate 
and use all their talents; to educate public 
opinion in favor of granting the vote to 
women and to secure their political rights; 
and last, but not least, to promote friend- 
liness and understanding among all Pan 
American countries, with the aim of main- 
taining perpetual peace in the Western 
Hemisphere." 

The Program of the Home Economics 
Department Meeting in connection with 
the N. E. A. convention, Boston, has been 
arranged for July 5 as follows: 



Subject: The Relation of Home Eco- 
nomics to the Rest of the High School 
Program. 

The Responsibility of Superintendents and 
Principals, Dr. George A. Works, Prof, of 
Rural Education, Cornell University. 

The Responsibility of Supervisors and 
Teachers, Edna N. White, Director Merrill 
Palmer School, Detroit. 

Discussion will be opened by Frank 
Wright, Director Division of Elementary 
and Secondary Education and Normal 
Schools, Massachusetts State Board of 
Education, and continued by Charles K. 
Moulton, Principal High School, Fall River, 
Mass., and S. Helen Bridge, formerly in 
charge of home economics education, Uni" 
versity of Nebraska. 

Camp Roosevelt, the national educational- 
training encampment for boys, conducted as 
an auxiliary of the Chicago public summer 
schools, and under the auspices of the U. S. 
War Department, will begin its fourth season 
on July 5, 1922. This institution has 
changed its location to a permanent camp site 
near LaPorte, Indiana, a two hours' trip 
from Chicago. A gj'mnasium, mess hall 
seating one thousand, kitchens, electric 
power plant, modern sewage system, hospital, 
classroom buildings, bungalows, dormitories, 
and recreation rooms afford facilities for 
comfort and enjoyment in a heathful en- 
vironment. The new tract includes and 
surrounds Silver Lake; large fields provide 
for tentage, sports of all kinds, and parade 
ground; the surrounding country affords 
opportunity for hikes in every direction. 

The camp is divided into three sections; 
the summer school, R O T C or military 
division, and the Junior camp for younger 
boys. The summer school is operated on 
the same plan as are the other Chicago sum- 
mer schools, and credit earned at the camp 
school is honored on the same basis as that 
earned in the Chicago schools. On account 
of residence at the school, somewhat longer 
hours are available for classes, making pos- 
sible more intensive work. This results in 
the completion, in six weeks, of the full eight 
weeks' course required in the city schools. 
Camp Headquarters are at 460 South State 
Street, Chicago. 



356 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOinCS 



[July 



The Southern Home Economics Associa- 
tion held its sixth annual meeting in joint 
session with the Florida Home Economics 
Association at St. Augustine, Florida, 
April 10-12. 

Monday night the delegates were greeted 
by representatives of the National and 
State Federation of Women's Clubs, the 
.\merican Home Economics Association, 
Business and Professional Women's Clubs, 
and the educational forces of Florida. 
The address was given by Dr. Benjamin R. 
Andrews, Teachers College, on The Home 
Economics Program. 

Tuesday morning, Marj' \. Lindsley, 
Manager of the Grace Dodge Hotel, Wash- 
ington, D. C, spoke of opportunities for 
women in institutional administration; Agnes 
Harris, States Relations Service, talked of 
the relation between extension work and 
teaching and research; AnnaE. Richardson, 
Federal Board for Vocational Education, 
gave an analysis of homemaking. 

Tuesday evening Dr. Mary Swartz Rose 
of Teachers College spoke of diet and 
physical fitness; Helen Louise Johnson 
discussed home economics problems. 

Wednesday morning was given over to 
sectional meetings. In the extension sec- 
tion ten minute reports were given by state 
demonstration agents on "Our Best Piece of 
Work." Field work in nutrition and a 
program of work for women's clubs were 
topics for discussion. In the homemakers' 
round table, subjects were the budget, a 
program for homemakers, home problems, 
and questions from homemakers. In the 
teachers' section the subject was "What 
Should the Home Economics Teacher 
Mean to the Community?" 

Wednesday afternoon Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy spoke on the work of the Office of 
Home Economics; Dr. Rose outlined newer 
methods in nutrition work; and Dr. Juanita 
Darrah reported nutrition studies of the 
Florida Research Laboratory. 

.\t the business meeting it was decided 
that the Southern Home Economics Associa- 
tion should become the Southern Region of 
the American Home Economics .\ssociation. 



AFFIU.XTED ASSOCIATIONS 

The following state home economics 
associations have afl'iliated with the American 
Home Economics Association with the num- 
ber of members shown opposite each. At 
present Illinois is the banner state. 



Arizona 


. 46 


Nebraska . ... 


32 


Arkansas 


. 64 


New Mexico . . . 


11 


California . . . , 


.. 223 


New York .... 


185 


District of 




North Carolina. 


46 


Columbia . . 


. 59 


North Dakota . 


37 


Illinois 


, . 29S 


Ohio 


212 


Louisiana 


. 101 


Oregon 


64 


Maryland ... 


.. 90 


South Carolina. 


32 


Michigan . . . , 


. . 189 


South Dakota.. 


16 


Minnesota . . 


.. 44 


Utah 


78 


Montana .... 


.. 45 


Washington . . . 


98 



The following states have reported decision 
to affiliate but have not yet completed their 
membership campaigns: Alabama, Ken- 
tucky, Mississippi, New England, Tennessee. 

Several states have found it necessary to 
postpone definite action until next fall. 
It is hoped that before the annual meeting 
all other states will have made at least the 
initial steps toward organization. 



The University of Arizona sets a time 
annually known as University Week, when 
each high school through the state may 
send representative students to compete 
in certain tests held at the University. 
The prize for each contest is a rebate of 
tuition and laboratory fees in the freshman 
year if the winner of the contest attends the 
University of Arizona. The rebate amounts 
to from $15 to $25, according to the course 
taken by the student. The contestants in 
home economics are judged as follows: 
Cooking — food combination, skill in cooking, 
management of work, and art in serving; 
sewing — ability to use a commercial pattern 
and a sewing machine, to do necessary 
hand sewing, and to manage time efficiently. 



Iowa State College. The faculty and 
students cooperated in planning a great 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



357 



three-day celebration at Iowa State College, 
May 11-13. The name ''Veishea" was 
given the event, the letters of the word 
being the first letters of the divisions, i.e., 
X'eterinar}-, Engineering, Industrial Science, 
Home Economics, and Agriculture. Invita- 
tions were sent to twenty thousand high 
school students. 

The Sheldon Munn Hotel Management 
of .\mes are giving the opportunity for the 
students in the Institutional Course to get 
practice and experience in hotel work under 
the direct supervision of the manager. It 
is to be hoped that an increasing number 
of hotels will be willing to give college 
women a chance to prove good. 

Girls Home Economics Club Work is 
being conducted in forty Iowa counties. 
These clubs are fostered by the Farm Bureau 
in each case and are super\-ised by the 
agents and a county club committee. This 
committee consists usuaUj' of from three to 
five women who are especially interested 
in the home and community projects put 
on by the Farm Bureau. The organization 
is accompUshed through a meeting of the 
girls and their mothers at some home or 
community hall. 

A group of three specialists from the 
Extension Service wiU conduct a series of 
subject matter training schools in each 
county for the local leaders of girls club 
work throughout the summer months. 
The county club committee of Pottawatta- 
mie county has made plans for a county 
camp for their girls the last week in June. 
The program is educational and recreational. 

M.4RYLAND 

The Home Economics Department of the 

University of Maryland entertained the 
Home Economics Associations from Balti- 
more and Washington, D. C, at College 
Park. May 20. This gathering gave an 
opportunity for the members of both asso- 
ciations to become acquainted and to learn 
of the plans for development of the home 
economics department as presented by Dr. 
Woods, President of the University. 

True Marjiand hospitality was demon- 
strated by the students and the staff in the 
open house at the girls' home and practice 



house and in the delightful supper served 
on the lawn. 

Maryland Home Economics Association. 
The first spring meeting was held !May 13 
at the Western High School, Baltimore, the 
president, Frances Zuill, presiding. 

At the morning session, Edith Thomas, 
State Supervisor of Home Economics for 
Xorth Carolina, and Regional Councilor 
for the South, outlined the possibilities in 
the development of a state organization 
and urged greater cooperation between 
home economics workers and practical 
homemakers, and Miriam Birdseye, of the 
States Relations Service, spoke on current 
extension problems. 

Following a luncheon arranged by a Balti- 
more Committee, Genevieve Fisher of the 
Federal Board for Vocational Education 
e.xplained the status of home economics in 
vocational education; ]Mrs. Mary Hinman 
Abel gave her impressions of what school 
girls ought to be expected to comprehend 
and use regarding family finance; John H. 
Le'n'is, Director of .-Americanization, Balti- 
more, impressed upon home economics work- 
ers their part in Americanization. 

Frances Zuill was elected representative 
councilor; Venia JI. KeUar, State Home 
Demonstration Leader, and Edna JlcNaugh- 
ton. State Supervisor of Home Economics, 
were elected members of the executive 
committee. The state association has affili- 
ated with the American Home Economics 
Association with ninety paid members. 



The Michigan State Home Economics 
Association held its annual conference for 
secondary school workers in connection 
with the School Masters Club meeting at 
Ann Arbor. 

The following program was given: Educa- 
tional Tests .\vailable in the Field of Home 
Economics, Grace McAdam, Detroit Public 
Schools; The Specific Weaknesses in the 
High School Preparation of Students as 
Revealed in the First Year of College Work, 
Jessie E. Richardson, Michigan State 
Normal College, Ada Tucker, Hillsdale 
College, Josephine Hart, Michigan Agri- 
cultural College; Some Experiments in 



358 



THE JOUI5NAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



Cliild Training at Merrill-Palmer School. 
Mary Sweeny, Dean of Home Economics, 
Michigan Agricultural College; The Michi- 
gan Plan, Ruth Frecgard, State Supervisor; 
Round Table, Cornelia Simson, School of 
Home Economics, Battle Creek. 

The Dietetic Association of Southeastern 
Michigan, held its first annual meeting 
April 20th at the College Club, Detroit. 
Dr. F. W. Crump of Harper Hospital 
Staff addressed the meeting on the subject, 
Diabetes MeUitus. The foUownng officers 
were elected: President, Louise B. Wilson, 
Cass Technical High School: Vice-President, 
Helen Osborne, Board of Public Health, 
Detroit; Secretary, Dorothy Steuart, Uni- 
versity Hospital, Ann Arbor; Treasurer, 
.Adelaide Webber, Harper Hospital, Detroit; 
Execurive jMembers, Eleanor Johnson, Cass 
Technical High School. 

NEW ENGL.\NT) 

The New England Home Economics 
Association visited the PriscUla Proving 
Plant in April, as guests of Jlrs. MacDonald, 
the editor of the Modem Priscilla. 

The "plant" is a real home, where real 
people live and work. Here e.icperiments 
are carried on with everything which is 
involved in homemaking problems. The . 
value of the experiments lies in the fact 
that the use given each article is the use 
a family would give it. 

The equipment was of much interest, 
especially the stoves of different types, the 
linoleum which did not show marks, a 
dish dryer, folding ironing board, and 
a specially designed china closet and "effi- 
cient" silver chest. 

The guests were shown through the work- 
shop where tests are made on textiles, canned 
goods, foods, and equipment. This work- 
shop is equipped with a large home economics 
library, which members of the association 
are invited to use. 

The May meeting was devoted to the 
topic "The Practical Application of Mental 
Hygiene," presented by Dr. Douglas Thom, 
Psychopathic Hospital, Boston, and to 
a business session at which the association 
decided to affiliate with the American Home 
Economics Association. 



NEW MEXICO 

Honorable John J. Tigert, United States 
Commissioner of Education visited New 
Mexico, May 8, in the interests of the Fed- 
eral Board for Vocational Education. All 
the city and county school superintendents 
and the heads of the various educational 
institutions were invited to gather at Santa 
Fe to confer in regard to the administration 
of the vocational program for the state. 
The Commissioner visited the Normal 
University, Las Vegas, the State University 
at Albuquerque, the State Normal School, 
Silver City, as well as high schools in these 
cities. 

Home Economics Teachers Popularize 
Work. The State Supervisor reports that 
the home economics teachers of New Mexico 
have made a special effort toward educating 
the parents and the communit}' to the need 
of homemaking courses. Ruth Hanson, 
Roswell, has prepared special lectures and 
exhibits for the Parent-Teachers Associa- 
tion. The department at Alamogordo, 
under the direction of Ruth Morgan, has 
served several dinners to various community 
organizadons, has arranged exhibits, and 
conducted a successful Christmas bazaar. 
The foods class of Stella Wyatt, Capitan, 
has been serving hot lunches to the school 
children. During Miss Wyatt's illness the 
girls assumed the responsibility of serN-ing 
limch to 100 members of the Lincoln County 
Teachers' Meeting. In Clayton, the school 
board, the faculty, and various clubs and 
organizations of the city have been enter- 
tained by the department under the direction 
of Aima Howarth. Aline Shepard, in charge 
of the work at Carlsbad, has organized an 
enthusiastic "EUen H. Richards" Club of 
which each girl in turn is hostess. 

Further suggestions for home economics 
publicity are: Put articles about the 
department in the local papers. Have 
students send in newspaper articles describ- 
ing their projects. Arrange exhibits of class 
work in a store window or at the school. 
Give talks before local clubs. Have the 
home economics department take charge 
of assembly period. 



1922] 



NEAVS FROM THE FIELD 



359 



The Ohio Home Economics Association 
held its annual meeting in Columbus, May 
6. The program was devoted to the discus- 
sion of clothing. Lee Davis, of the F. & R. 
Lazarus Company, Columbus, talked on 
"Style and Style Creations," and Edna Cal- 
lahan and Jeannette Butler Of the Home 
Economics Extension Service of Ohio State 
University discussed the presentation of 
clothing in adult and junior extension work. 
At the business session the following 
officers were elected: Jlrs. Blanche Bowers, 
Columbus, Ohio, President; Prudence 
Stevens, Ohio University, \'ice-President; 
Clara Bancroft, Columbus, Secretary; 
Frances Gregorj', Dayton, Treasurer. The 
follov\-ing were named on the executive 
council: Marie Sayles, Ohio State Uni- 
versity; Helen Sawyer, Columbus; Alice 
Swisher, Miami; Enid Lunn, Columbus; 
Bertha XLxon, Kent Normal School; Laura 
Heston, Bowling Green Normal School. 
Marie Sayles was designated to represent 
Ohio on the council of the .American Home 
Economics Association. Tentative plans for 
next j'ear were announced with four meet- 
ings; October at Dayton; December at 
Columbus; March, placed to be announced; 
annual meeting. May at Columbus. 

The Ohio association has affiliated with 
the American Association and now has 212 
members. 

PENNSYLVANIA 

The Drexel Institute. Dr. Kenneth G. 
Matheson assumed the duties of the presi- 
dency of Drexel Institute the first of May. 
Dr. Matheson comes from Georgia Institute 
of Technologj' where he has served success- 
fully as president for seventeen years and is 
a recognized leader in education. It is his 
desire to develop the Home Economics 
Department to its fullest. Plans have 
already been completed for the extension of 
the Junior College work to a three year 
course which offers an opportunity for good 
foundation courses in food and clothing. 
The Senior College Course has been reor- 
ganized into a strong, well-balanced course. 
A number of students are now working 
for their degrees, and the indications are 
that there will be a larger enrollment in the 
fall of 1922. 



The .Alumnae of the Institute gave a 
reception and banquet in honor of Dr. 
and ilrs. Matheson on ifay thirteenth 
in the Great Court. .About two hundred 
alumnae attended. 

MINNESOTA 

Dunwoody Institute, Miimeapolis, will 
offer a series of conferences during the sum- 
mer months for the benefit of those inter- 
ested in the work of administrators, super- 
visors, or instructors in trade, industrial 
and mechanic arts through day, part-time, 
and evening classes. In addition, the 
Federal Board for Vocational Education 
will carry on a series of conferences on 
foremanship training and foreman con- 
ference training, and a special conference 
on home economics training. 



The Utah Home Economics Association 

is actively cooperating with the National 
Association. Alice Kewley, president and 
state chairman for increase of Journal 
subscriptions, and Jessie Whitacre, state 
chairman for the .American Home Economics 
Association Executive Secretary Fund, 
jointly sent a letter to each home economics 
worker in the state, with the following 
suggestions: That each home economics 
worker be a subscriber to the Journal. 
That each home economics worker be a 
member of both the state and national 
associations. That each home economics 
worker contribute at least Sl.OO to the 
Executive Secretary Fund. That the home 
economics staff in every educational institu- 
tion of the state make of the home economics 
classes, or already organized home economics 
club, an "interested organization" which 
shall contribute to the Executive Secretary 
Fund. Utah's contribution to the Execu- 
tive Secretary Fund is now $165.25. The 
national chairman, Mary L. Matthews, when 
acknowledging the above sum said, "I 
certainly feel that Utah has done her part 
for this year. I hope you will express to 
the other women working with you my 
appreciation of their interest." The at- 
home benefits of this work can be seen in 
the strengthened state association through 
its closer connection with the national 
organization. 



360 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



WISCONSIN 

The Wisconsin Home Economics Asso- 
ciation has organized this year, with its 
officers and an executive council. This 
council has drafted a constitution which is 
to be presented at the fall meeting of the 
association, and it is hoped that affiliation 
with the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation can be perfected at that time. 

The home economics teachers in Wisconsin 
are showing their professional interest by 
the formation of local clubs to study teaching 
problems. Seven such clubs have already 
been formed. The membership of each one 
is made up of teachers within a radius of 
fifty miles or less, who can meet at some 
central town three or four times a year. 
The programs consist of talks by distin- 
guished guests, or of round table discus- 
sions on topics of professional interest. 
The organization is informal, and the atmos- 
phere is one of friendly cooperation. These 
clubs are linked with the State organization 
through their chairmen who are e.x-officio 
members of the state e.xecutive council. 

The Stout Institute. The practice classes 
in clothing have recently given a public 
performance in the auditorium in which 
each grade staged a playlet, song, or panto- 
mime to illustrate the semester's projects. 
Copies of the songs and material used may 
be obtained in mimeographed form for 25 
cents. 

The seniors who are majoring in foods and 
nutrition have charge of a health class of 
undernourished children, reported bj' the 
school nurse. 

Last September, a cafeteria for students 
and faculty was opened in the household 
arts building. It has proved helpful in the 
development of the course in cafeteria 
management as a laljoratory for large 
quantity cookerj'. Classes in foods and 
cookery have been serving luncheons and 
buffet suppers to groups of faculty members. 

With tlie exception of some of the science 
work, all courses are offered during the 
summer session, which will be only nine 
weeks this year. This is popular with 
teachers, who are thus enabled to use more 
of the vacation to advantage. 



Milwaukee DownerCoUege. All students 
of the senior class, majoring in home 
economics, are required to give one demon- 
stration lecture on some phase of home 
economics. These lectures are planned for 
groups of housekeepers and are open to the 
public Sixty housekeepers were present 
at the April demonstration. 

Susan F. West, Director of the Home 
Economics Department, has given a series 
of twenty evening lectures on nutrition and 
dietetics to a group of Milwaukee home 
economics teachers, taking up the newer 
phases of nutrition and its application to 
dietaries. 

Girl Scout Clubs in all parts of the city 
have strengthened the work of home 
economics teachers. Since thirteen out of 
forty-seven proficiency tests and special 
medals are given for homemaking arts, the 
Home Economics Department of Milwaukee- 
Downer College was appealed to for help, 
and Miss West has given a normal course of 
four lessons to the Girl Scout leaders. 



Mrs. Hannah Cuthbertson, of the .Applied 
An Department of Stout Institute, will 
sail in July for China and the Orient. She 
will be employed for a year or more to 
assist Chinese designers in modifying their 
designs for American trade; also to act in 
the capacity of advisor to the American 
buyers. 

Daisy Alice Kugel, Director}' of the School 
of Household Arts of Stout Institute, will 
spend the summer in Europe. She will 
visit schools in England, France, and 
Belgium. 

Government Needs Dietitians. There 
is urgent need at hospitals of the United 
States Public Health Service for diedtians 
in connection with the rehabilitation of 
disabled soldiers, sailors, and marines. 
Applicants are not required to report for a 
written examinadon, but are rated upon the 
subjects of education, training, and experi- 
ence. Full information may be secured 
from the United States Civil Service Com- 
mission, Washington, D. C. 



Vol. XIV, No. 8 August, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking» Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mahy de Gabuo BsiYKS. Editor Ketdrah E. Baldwin, Business EdiUt 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lanoworthy Autt Daniels Katharine Fisheb Grace G, Dsimt 

Editor oj "The Question Box," Amy Daniels 
Associate Editors 
Day Monhoe. Vews 

EorTB Barbfr and Mildred Weigley, Social Welfareand the Home 
FioRFNCP Ward Rxlensmn 

K*rHARiNE lUiNT *Ni> Sybil WnonRTPF Foods and NuiritioD 
Cora \Vin(Hell and Rmma Conley. Education 
Rrra O'RRntN Textile 
Mabel Littte, Institution Economict 
Auce Biester. Bibliography 

CoUa!>orjtors— The Officers, Members ol the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Reconstruction Days in Home Economics Isabel Betner 361 

Methods of Vitauin Investigation Elizabeth W. Miller 364 

The Application of Design and Color to Millinery Harriet J. Hemlt 368 

An Analysis of the Field of Institution Management and the Preparation for It 

A'ola Treat and Lenore Richards 370 

A Course in Buying Institutional Equlpment and Supplies Eda Lord Murphy 373 

Project JIethod of Teaching Lunch Room ant5 Special Cookery . . Rachel S. Harrison 375 

The Paper Dress Form Alma Long 379 

Effect of Bleaching on Tensile Strength of Cotton Fabrics (concluded) 

Ruth O'Brien and Mary L. Price 382 

Home Economics and International Relations Emma A. U'inslow 389 

Elitorlal 393 

OrEN' Forum 396 

Bor>KS and Literature 399 

News from the Field 405 



The Journal of !iouE Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
J2.50 A YEAR FOREIGN J2.85. CANADIAN J2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remitunces should be tent by New York Draft, Check. Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to ttie American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's rikk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the chanee is to take eOect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Addreti. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimori:, Md. 

The Joobhal of Hoitx EcONOincs is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia: The Old Comer Book Store, Bi»l«a; 
A. C. McClurit St Co., Chicago; Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Waahinctoll. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 



The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 



ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 







Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 






In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV AUGUST, 1922 No. 8 

RECONSTRUCTION DAYS IN HOME ECONOMICS 

ISABEL BEVIER 
Professor Emeritus, Universily of Illinois 

In common with the rest of the world home economics is in the midst 
of its reconstruction days. Reconstruction is always a difficult and 
delicate task: difficult, because it may require the uprooting of traditions 
and customs established often with toil and pain; delicate, because, while 
it is an attempt to give to cherished ideals a new form, it seems some- 
times to destroy them. But that way, all recognize, lies ultimate progress. 
"New occasions teach new duties. Time makes ancient good uncouth" 
is a statement constantly being demonstrated in home economics. 

The difficulties in this particular instance are increased by the fact that 
home economics has so many vulnerable points. In most occupations 
there are "honorable points of ignorance" for the layman; not so as 
regards home economics. N-o wayfarer on the highway of life but con- 
siders himself a very competent critic of some one of its numerous 
phases. The recognition of this fact brings recognition of its corollary. 
The contacts are all made in home economics, the doors are all open. 
It remains for its advocates to enter in and possess the land. 

In these days it is quite the habit to blame all the ills of life upon the 
World War, but home economics has a very different story to tell, for 
here the war was a great benefactor. The public learned more about 
food and nutrition and the relation of food to health in one year then than 
in any ten years preceding. The vital relation of food to health and 
efficiency was demonstrated on a great scale by the army and the ill- 
nourished children of other lands. The vocabulary of food was acquired 
by the layman rapidly. Calories were removed from the funny column 
of the newspaper and became the measuring unit of the food resources 
of the Allies. 

Real advance in the estimation of the public in home economics in 
war time was made chiefly along the lines of food, economics, and research. 
The necessity of the situation put emphasis upon wise spending for both 
food and clothing, and showed the desirability of having the woman 

361 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

as the spender of the income made as intelligent as possible. The govern- 
ment undertook the teaching of thrift on a large scale. Again, the need 
of much knowledge for the answering of numerous questions emphasized 
as never before the need for research. The National Research Council 
gave home economics a place in its counsels. As a result home economics 
had one grand demonstration from shore to shore during the war. It 
nearly killed us off, but it made us and our cause eminently respectable. 
As I see it, reconstruction means adjustment in the teaching of home 
economics in regard to: 

a. Subject matter 

b. Method of presentation 

c. Equipment 

d. Larger relations to the school program and through that to the 
social program of the community; importance as an interpreter and 
defender of the ideals of the American home. 

Subject Matter. The attempts to use substitutes, to teach those less 
familiar with food and its uses, required and still require a considerable 
weighing and balancing of the subiect matter, a discarding of the non- 
essentials and an emphasis upon the essentials. A lesson in preparing 
food now is not an isolated performance for the purpose of learning 
manipulation, but the dish to be prepared is selected with care to illustrate 
as many points as possible and when finished is given its setting in a meal, 
its cost, its food value, its sequence, its relationships to production and 
the larger aspects of the food question. 

The Method of Presentation. In common with other subjects of the 
curriculum, home economics has been assailed by the project method, 
by unit courses, by tests for appreciation, for reasoning, for skills, for 
information, and there has been much talk about objectives, ultimates, 
specifics, and activities. The writer confesses to a good deal of sympathy 
with the woman who said she did not understand very well about dividing 
up the brain for so many different jobs ; so far as she was concerned she 
wanted her pupils to be using all the brains they had all the time for all 
the divisions. However, it is doubtless possible that, in this orgy of 
curriculum making and testing which is now going on, home economics 
may emerge stronger and better, representing the sur^^val of the fittest. 

Equipment. Home economics is not an experiment. In the forty 
years in which it has been worked at with more or less intelligence many 
isolated facts have been discovered, and new relationships which are of 
use in the making of school programs and courses of study have 
developed. It is quite generally known what constitutes a well planned 



1922] RECONSTRUCTION DAYS IN HOME ECONOMICS 363 

school kitchen, even if some blind leaders of the blind are aspiring to 
mahogany table tops and tiled floors, and others would solve all the 
difficulties by a unit kitchen. The consensus of opinion seems to be that 
there are many possible types because of many varying conditions, each 
good after its kind. Unit kitchens have their place even if in some cases 
they result in a stove which is little more than the discarded hot plate, 
and the oven very little better than the one used with the hot plate. One 
good range with a well-lined oven and an accurate measurement of 
temperature is worth much more in real advance in food work. 

A word of warning is to be given against equipment whose one virtue 
is expense. The day of reckoning ■will surely come when home eco- 
nomics kitchens as other kitchens will be judged by their adaptation to 
meet the needs of the community and their capacity for accurate work. 
Another word of warning is to be sounded against a great desire to be 
too accommodating to the makers of school programs. Cooking proc- 
esses require time. The work needs to be done thoughtfully and care- 
fully, not with the one aim of getting through. Therefore, the one hour 
program for food work is not to be considered desirable. One great 
mistake is still to be charged to principals and superintendents who 
expect the teacher of home economics to welcome to her class rep- 
resentatives from every one of the four years of the high school, 
but never think of asking that accomplishment of the teacher of 
mathematics. 

Larger Relationships. The public demands are to be recognized. 
The tests many and varied are to be met, but the workers themselves 
must keep ever in mind the larger aspects of the question. Man does 
not live by bread alone — economics can not do everything. Spirit and 
life have their sources too and must be cherished. 

Home economics workers must not be so occupied in making white sauce 
or its counterfeit paper-hangers paste, that they forget that the art and 
beauty of life are included in their programs; that the finer forms of 
social intercourse, the development of gracious womanhood have their 
place in home economics training. The public wants what was best in 
the old forms of family life represented in the modem life. It should 
be enriched by the discoveries of science, the development of art, the 
social and ci\'ic responsibilities. But it must be permeated by the spirit 
of service and loyalty to the highest ideals. Only as home economics 
meets these larger issues does it render its best service to the nation. 



364 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

METHODS OF WTAMIN INVESTIGATION 

ELIZABETH W. MILLER 
Iowa Slate College, Ames 

Among vitamin problems of paramount interest to home economics 
teachers are those which deal w'ith the quantitative distribution of each 
of the vitamins in foods and the effect of cooking, storing, drying, and 
other methods of preservation on these accessory factors as they occur 
in foods. Such questions as the effect of temperature, the surface ex- 
posed to oxidation, acidity or alkalinity, solubility in the cooking water, 
on the rate of destruction of the vitamins are all very practical ones 
which are not conclusively answered, as yet, and which might well be 
studied by women who are familiar with the cooking processes. 

McCarrison's (1) recent work on vitamins has given a dramatic demon- 
stration of the fact that there must be, within limits, a balance main- 
tained among the different food constituents, and that, if that balance 
is disturbed, the "metabolic harmony" ceases. When we consider our 
inadequate knowledge in regard to the quantitative aspect of practical 
dietetics, we realize the importance of careful work along this line. 
There is then a wide field for investigation, both in learning what con- 
stitutes a complete diet and in determining what foods may be combined 
to make a complete diet. 

In reviewing the literature on vitamins, one is impressed with the 
widely differing conclusions reached by various workers. This is but 
natural considering the difficulties. Until the chemical nature of the 
vitamins and methods of isolating them are known, we must necessarily 
work with preparations which are mixtures of substances of unknown 
composition. Then, too, the laborious biological feeding method in- 
troduces many variables which may not be controlled, especially by 
the inexperienced worker. 

Impressed with the importance of standardizing the quantitative 
method of vitamin determinations, Emmet (2), Sherman (3), Funk (4), 
and others have recently called attention to some of the points which 
must be observed, if significant results are to be obtained. They will 
be discussed briefly here. For more complete information, the reader 
is referred to the articles and books listed in the bibliography. 

I. Biological reagent. Since quantitative chemical determinations 
of the vitamins cannot be made, the biological method is the only one 
available. The first problem, then, is to find a form of plant or animal 



1922] METHODS OF VIT.\MIN lA^'ESTIGATION 365 

life which will serve as a suitable "reagent," that is, a form of life which 
requires the particular vitamin under investigation for its development, 
and shows characteristic effects when the vitamin is lacking. For a 
study of vitamin B, the tadpole, Paramecium, yeast, chick, pigeon, and 
rat have been tried. Of these, the pigeon and rat have, up to the present 
*ime, yielded the best results. For a study of vitamin A, the rat, and 
for vitamin C, the guinea pig, are the standard laboratory animals, 
although several others are being tried. 

The requisites of a satisfactory animal for feeding experiments are 
that they shall breed easily, mature early, consume a small amount of 
food, take artificial diets readily, stand confinement well, and be resistant 
to infections and intestinal parasites. The rat meets these conditions 
more nearly than other animals and has, therefore, been generally 
used for the study of vitamins A and B. Since the rat does not develop 
scurvy, it is of no value in a study of vitamin C. 

A very important factor is the condition of the experimental animals. 
It is thought best that they be bred by the investigator. Emmett in 
his work with pigeons has found that "it is necessary to consider breed, 
previous feeding, age, body condition, weight, and season of the year." 
Sherman's experience with guinea pigs in the study of vitamin C indicates 
that animals six to eight weeks old and weighing 300 to 350 grams, give 
most uniform results. "If the animals are much younger, the results 
are somewhat less regular ; if much older, they are somewhat less suscep- 
tible and also less desirable in that they are less likely to show good growth 
up to the time of the onset of the scurvy symptoms." 

II. Control diet. A basal control diet must be found which is com- 
plete for growth and maintenance of the experimental animal. In spite 
of the vast number of investigations done with rats. Funk questions 
whether the optimum growth curve of these animals is known. A 
comparison of the normal weight curves of Osborne and Mendel and 
McCollum wath that of Funk shows the latter to be on a much higher 
level. This raises a doubt whether diets which have been considered 
complete have actually met all the nutritional requirements of the 
rat. In addition to the control diet, experimental diets must be found 
which are known to be complete in every respect, except the one factor 
that is being studied. 

III. Artificial diet. In the preparation of the artificial diet, it is 
essential that all the ingredients are vitamin free. Many of the differ- 
ences of opinion among workers have arisen from the fact that this pre- 
caution was not observed. The commercial casein, frequently used as 



366 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

the protein, must be further purified bj'^ extraction with alcohol and ether, 
or by dissohing in alkali and reprecipitating. Lactose, which has been 
widely used as a constituent of diets, was shown by McCollum and Davis 
to contain appreciable amounts of \atamin B, and must, therefore, be 
subjected to purification. Sherman. Le Met, and Campbell (5) have 
found that dried milk powder, desiccated on open trays at 110° C. is 
completely free of ^^tamin C, while fresh milk autoclaved at 120° for 
one hour still contains small amounts of the vitamin, the presence of 
which must vitiate the results to some extent. 

IV. Preparation of vitamin material. An exact method of procedure 
must be followed in making the \atamin preparation. As has already 
been stated, until the vitamins can be isolated we must of necessity work 
\\'ith mixtures of substances. Workers frequently have not given a 
sufficiently explicit description of the mode of preparing the vitamin 
extract, and this has led to confusion and controversy. The question 
is not yet settled whether the antineuritic vitamin and \'itamin B are 
identical. Recently, Funk and Dubin have proposed that the vitamin 
B preparations which have been used have contained at least two vita- 
mins, or perhaps, two forms of the same vitamin, both of which are 
necessary for the rat, one necessary'- for the pigeon, and the other for 
yeast. Then, again, the order in which constituents of the diet are com- 
bined should be uniform, since it may affect the texture and palatability 
and thus the food consumption. 

V. Administration of vitamin. The vitamin preparation should be 
administered so that the quantity is knowTi. It may be desired to test 
its prophylactic or its curative properties. Thus, the amount of vitamin 
B preparation necessary to prevent polyneuritis in pigeons, or to pro- 
mote normal growth in rats, may be determined, or the amount required 
to cure polyneuritis, or to restore normal growth after the rat has ceased 
to gain in weight. For practical purposes the prophylactic effect has 
probably the greatest significance. Again the vitamin preparation may 
be incorporated as a constituent of the diet or it may be administered 
separately from the basal ration. In the first case, the minimum pro- 
portion in which the ^^tamin preparation must enter into the food mix- 
ture to obtain the desired results is determined. In the second method 
the "minimum daily dose" of the \atamin preparation is found. This 
latter method is the more satisfactory unless a food such as corn is being 
tried, which could not be given in doses in addition to the basal ration 
without increasing the food consumption. 



1922] METHODS OF \T;T.\iIIX IN^VESTIGATION 367 

If the effect of cooking on the vitamin content of such food is to be 
determined, the minimum amount of the unheated material necessary 
for growth or protection against a deficiency disease must first be de- 
termined. Then the minimum quantity of this same food, cooked, 
which is necessary to produce the same result is found. A comparison 
of results will then teU what proportion of the vitamin has been lost. 
Unless the minimum is determined in both cases, the results can have 
no quantitative value. 

\'I. Amount of food consumed. This illustrates the importance of 
knowing the daily food consumption of the experimental animal. If 
the material used as a source of vitamin is incorporated in the diet, 
no knowledge of the actual amount of vitamin required can be obtained 
unless the total quantity of food eaten is known. Also, without such in- 
formation the effect of inanition or of other dietary deficiencies may be 
confused with a vitamin deficiency. 

Since the food consumption may varj^ with change in diet, or change 
in texture and palatability of the food mixture, these points must be 
kept constantly in mind. To ob\date the loss of food by scattering, 
various de\'ices may be adopted, such as the use of special food cups. 

\TI. Importance of hygiene. The recent results obtained showing the 
effect of sunlight in the prevention and cure of rickets introduces 
another factor which is doubtless of importance in animal studies. 
Ventilation, temperature, cleanliness, freedom from vermin and infec- 
tions, exercise, all should be given due consideration. The recent 
controversy as to whether xerophthalmia is the direct result of a defi- 
ciency of vitamin A, or due to an infection entirely controllable by 
sanitary precautions is an illustration of how diflncult it is to make 
certain that the dietary factor is the major one. 

\TII. Duration of experiment. The tests must be run long enough 
to make the results conclusive. \\Tien animals are put on a new diet, 
the food consumption is likely to decrease unless they are force-fed. 
Failure to respond might in such a case be due to insufficient food 
rather than to any deficiency. 

IX. Specific deficiency efects. Finally, the characteristic effects of the 
specific dietary deficiencies must be learned by experience. Observa- 
tions of weight curves, body condition, sur^dval period, and autopsy 
findings are all significant. Sherman, La Mer, and Campbell (5) have 
worked out a scheme by which grades of severity of scurvy may be 
differentiated. It illustrates the newer development of the quanlitalive 
aspect of vitamin investigations. 



368 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Desirous of standardizing the methods of carrying on vitamin investi- 
gations, Emmett (2) has proposed that several laboratories cooperate 
in formulating a definite working plan as to basal rations, animals, 
and technique of feeding. 

A committee has been appointed consisting of A. D. Emmett, A. F. 
Hess, E. V. McCollum, L. B. IMendel, and H. C. Sherman representing 
the American Society of Biological Chemists, the Society of Experimental 
Biology and Medicine, and the Committee on Food and Nutrition of 
the National Research Council. The function of this committee is to 
consider the advisability of clarifying, unifying, and, if possible, suggest- 
ing means of improving present methods of vitamin research. 

A cooperative plan of this sort should aid greatly in obtaining consist- 
ent results and arriving at definite conclusions. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Studies in Deficiency Diseases, Robert McCarrison. Oxford University Press, 1921. 

2. Emmett, A. D., /. of Ind. and Eng. Cliem., 1921, 13: 1104. 

3. The Vitamins, Henry C. Sherman and S. L. Smith. The Chemical Catalog Co., 1922. 

4. The Vitamins, Casimir Funk. Williams & Wilkins Co., 1922. 

5. La Mer, V. K, and Campbell, H. L., J. Amer. Chcm. Soc, 1922, 44: 165. 

6. La Mer, V. K., CarapbeU, H. L., and Sherman, H. C, J. Amcr. Cliem. Soc, 1922, «: 172. 

7. Chick, H. and Hume, E. M. /. Biol. Cliem., 1919, 39: 203. 

8. Cohen, B. and Mendel, L. B., /. Biol. Chcm., 1918, 35: 425. 

9. Osborne, T. B. and Mendel, L. B., J. Biol. Cliem., 1921, 45: 277. 

10. Scurvy, Past and Present, A. F. Hess. J. B. Lippincott Co., 1920. 

11. The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition. E. V. ^IcCollum. The ilacmillan Company, 

1922. 



THE APPLICATION OF DESIGN AND COLOR TO MILLINERYi 

HARRIET J. HEWITT 
Instructor of Home Economics, Public Schools, Springfield, Massachusetts 

Millinery is not only a big commercial problem in our country but is a 
constantly recurring personal problem for every woman who attem.pts 
to keep within the style limits. There are many agencies engaged in 
teaching millinery in its various forms. Among these are the public 
schools, including junior and senior high schools, technical, trade, and 
night schools, normals, and colleges. While our normals, colleges, and 

- E.\tracts from a paper given before the Connecticut Valley Home Economics Association. 



1922] APPLICATION OF DESIGN ANT) COLOR TO MILL1NT:RY 369 

some of the technical schools prepare most of the people who go into the 
teaching profession, it is left for the other branches to prepare people 
to do millinery work for either personal or commercial purposes. It 
would seem, then, that the function of the junior and senior high schools 
should be to lay a firm and lasting foundation for these other agencies, 
and to help those people who are not going into the millinery business, 
but must needs select hats from time to time. 

Let us consider the foundation that should be laid in all elementary 
millinery work if the average person is to be able to judge or create a 
good hat. 

First: a working knowledge of the fundamental principles of design. 
There should be an understanding of such terms as line, balance, sym- 
metry, monotony, proportion, and suitability to person and purpose, 
so that these terms may be intelligently linked with the other phases of 
millinery. 

Second: an understanding of the human feature and form types. 
This should include a study of blondes, brunettes, and combinations of 
the two; the various types, as cute, dignified, severe, distinctive, and 
the great mass of people known as ordinary. Then there is the classifica- 
tion as to form — tall and slim, short and stout, with many variations. 
These types resolve themselves into two main classes of women; those 
who ought to avoid points and long severe lines; and those who need 
to beware of circular, square, or squatty effects. 

Third: a practical knowledge of color. Someone has said that an 
understanding of color is the crying need of the nation's women. It is 
not necessary to have an intricate knowledge of color terminology. One 
does not have to worry about such terms as Pekin blue or Harding blue, 
but should be much more concerned as to whether a blue has a grey, 
green, yellow, or violet cast, and which of the many varieties of blue is 
best suited to the particular type under consideration. Every com- 
plexion has a keynote or tint, and colors should harmonize not only with 
the features of the complexion but with all other colors worn. Pupils 
should understand harmonies of contrast and similarity and the value of 
texture combinations. Girls should be taught that they mustunderstand 
color in its simpler forms before they attempt subtile combinations, and 
that they can emphasize their good features by selecting certain lines 
and colors. 

To make our work effective, we need a sympathetic backing from our 
superiors, which would insure proper conditions for correlation with 
the art departments in our schools, and we need teachers of millinery who 



370 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

understand both the art and technical sides of the problem. With 
a suitable background laid in our elementary schools and the elementary- 
departments of the advanced schools, anyone with ordinary talent for 
millinery can take advanced and technical work in schools, or in millinery 
departments of stores or shops. 

Is it really economical for all girls to learn to make hats? If time and 
energy are to be considered, the average business woman or mother 
ought not to make hats for herself or her family. Millinery courses in 
schools are expensive and only one girl out of ten has a real "feeling" for 
hats, or anything like a milliner's touch. It would be far more sensible 
to include in the clothing course considerable work in the application 
of design and color to millinery, and to let the actual making of hats 
come later as an elective. The girls would be old enough to handle the 
materials intelligently, and such study would result in a knowledge of 
millinery in general which would prove a lasting satisfaction. 



AN ANALYSIS OF THE FIELD OF INSTITUTION MANAGE- 
MENT AND THE PREPARATION FOR IT' 

NOLA TREAT AND LENORE RICHARDS 
Division of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 

The accompanying chart was drawn up as a means of showing graphi- 
cally the fields of institution management, in order to organize a cur- 
riculum which would be satisfactory in preparing students for institu- 
tion management work. 

To prepare adequately for an occupation, it is necessary to know the 
specific responsibilities and activities of that occupation. Therefore, 
in the first column of the chart the various phases of the work have been 
listed as shown under "fields;" in the second and third columns is given 
the information one must have in order to qualify for positions in these 
fields ; in the fourth and fifth are listed the courses which supply the re- 
quired information, the fifth showing those courses which are basic and 
which in a college four year course are given first in the curriculum. 
This last group also shows the related work essential to a knowledge 
of the occupation. While the subject matter will remain the same, the 
courses offering this information will vary, necessarily, in "^ifierent 
schools and colleges. 

' The authors wish to thank Mildred Weigley, Chief of Division of Home Economics, for 
making important suggestions in the preparation of this paper. 



1922] FIELD OF INSTITUTION M-AJNAGEMENT 371 



S « tc;: . o^ z . 


m tc 


>> 


Industrial h 
Economics 
Business org. 
tion 


to ^ £ o 

° tc~ n 


elated 
rincip 
ketin 

lysics 
lysio! 
acteri 

hysict 

rt 

csign 


§8 




•o o c o 


Q^p^ t_;«=-c? u^<H 


H< 


UP-, 


c^c^Hk-; 



^ to 



5 y >^ "^ S 
s.5~ „ >>.2 

3^3"-^ — 
i O -'.H J3 3'. 

t -^ ■" -e c - 
i S "3 " rt -t; .■ 
:^l: o o 3 JS 



g rt £ 2. 



g.§a 


U.f.^ 


.§ 


geg 


g 


man 

man 
tice 




S.?aj 


S s^ 


B-S S 


BJi S 


B4J B-3 


2 B-a 


S 5"° 


c-T^c 


u 


gog 




c-g c ^ 


o " o g 


ssl^ 


















c 




CI. 






"■:3 & 




3 *J 3 








3 ^ 3 »j 


3-^3^ 




— .^ .•=! c 


.■z: c.r; 


c 


X c .ti 


c 


.t; c.-s C 


.ti c.ti c 


.•s.ti a 


















2 £S B 


SBc 


B 


sss 


B 


SS SB 


SB SB 


c c a 


t-rsr' 


-» «■ 




■* * 






V Sr' 





" to 

rt w 



'-5 £> S 



6 



: — "^ — *-4j_ o >ito 



> ^ ■.- - - - "S 2 c— "^ ^ :>; ^ -.^ 

- .£f to j.-! M-S I a, M toJTf.l g ?„ "S- to I'i c c S ti e ..^ ^^-^ t; "- 



a a 



•3 St: -t: ti--2 „- -o -.SS^a;-5 .S c ^ 5" E - c-S ^ o.2 ^^ o.^ _t;_;.-. g 
rt -c £ " Si S c « -Ss; cy'g.-S-c:c_3Jto.:i=^;='-' .S-S .23 -Jrrt;3C.Sn-3 3rtB o 

^t.%t S.S- s g-s g--J § g 1 g. g-s g s §j a.s £ ^.s.s g-? ,^ 5 s .=.§•? s " " " 

to 



;/. oiffi^Jfei HPhHQ MOfLiw Si 






■§1 
rt to 



c S£ 

O cj J« 



S^ §^ 11 .| J 
U H O K H 



£ P 




^ 0) 


c o Si 
rt 071 




Sj-SS.-B 


ormitory m 
agement 
irection of 
munitykit 


to 
c 


irection of 
service ent 
prises such 
soup kitchf 
lunch roon- 
boarding h 


Q 





Q 



372 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

To be sure that the content is cared for in the courses given, the in- 
stitution working on this problem planned its curriculum in relation to 
the content as shown in column four. The four courses starred deal 
specifically with institution management. Institution experience and 
large quantity cookery which comprise laboratory and lecture work 
are prerequisite to institution management problems. The latter 
course takes care of the administrative phases of institution work. In- 
stitution practice is a laboratory course in institution administration and 
follows the lecture course. 

It would seem that one of the most important points in the teaching 
of institution management is to establish a satisfactory sequence of 
courses which shall give, together with subject matter, a graded ex- 
perience to the student who comes into institution management work 
interested, but with no very clear idea of what it means and therefore 
with little background for the study of the more advanced problems of 
administration. This analysis has helped to make clear the importance 
of a sequence of courses. It would seem advantageous for students to 
have a working experience in an institution before taking up the study 
of the problems of organization, labor, plant planning, and equipment. 
It has been found also that wlaile a working experience is necessary, 
practical experience outside the courses offered in the college curriculum, 
may prove an actual handicap. This, of course, depends entirely on 
the institution in which the practical experience is obtained. It is 
wise therefore to hold rather strictly to the prerequisites as outlined in 
the courses of study, regardless of the fact that there are constant de- 
mands from students who wish to enter the management lectures by 
substituting previous experience for large quantity cookery and insti- 
tution experience as offered in the course of study. Another advantage 
in offering this sequence of courses is that students not fitted for the 
work are eliminated promptly. Also, the fact that large quantity 
cookery and institution experience may be taken as electives means 
that an interested student may try herself out in institution management 
work without the expenditure of an undue amount of time in case she 
does not wish to continue. 

It may be said that instead of the course in institution management 
practice mentioned above, a six weeks to three months assistantship, 
similar to that required of hospital dietitians may be substituted. In 
this latter case, it is necessary that students be given work in approved 
institutions only. If this plan is adopted it must follow the completion 
of the institution management courses and would probably be taken 
after completion of the work for a degree. 



1922] BUYING INSTITUTIONAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES 373 

A COURSE IN BUYING INSTITUTIONAL EQUIPMENT AND 
SUPPLIES 

EDA LORD MURPHY 

lawa State College, Ames 

Since courses in institutional administration are being developed 
simultaneously in many parts of the country, it may be of interest to 
know how we have met the demand at the Iowa State College. We now 
oiler the following courses: Institutional Foods, Buying of Institutional 
Equipment and Supplies, Institutional Management, Institutional Field 
Work. 

In general the second course includes: study (in detail) of institu- 
tional kitchens, selection of kitchen equipment and dining room, bed 
room, and living room furnishings, cost of upkeep and replacement, 
large quantity buying of foodstuffs, preparation of a project selected by 
each student in line with her special interests. 

On our campus we have five dormitory kitchens under the supervision 
of a graduate in home economics. They offer a remarkably fine field 
for observation, as the standards of order and cleanliness are extremely 
high. The cooks eagerly consult with students from the Division of 
Home Economics about equipment. Students visit the kitchens in 
groups of two. The kitchens of the college cafeteria and the coUege 
hospital are also open to us. In the town of Ames, we have access to 
commercial cafeterias as well as to the hotel and hospital kitchens, 
through the courtesy of the managers who understand our purpose. 

In addition to this, the classes make an educational trip to Des Moines 
to visit the tearooms managed by large department stores, as well as 
commercial cafeterias, large hospitals, and hotels. By the time this 
trip takes place the class has had a thorough preparation for it, by the 
detailed study of institutional equipment: ranges, gas stoves, refrigera- 
tors, steam tables, urns, bread and butter cutters, dish washers, in a 
large variety of makes and styles have been discussed as to their de- 
sirable and undesirable points, so that there is intelligent interest when 
a chef offers to have his dish washer or his favorite mixer exhibited in 
action. The observation of details is growing to be such a habit that the 
students are almost afraid they will be found turning over their plates at 
a luncheon to get the name of the ware, or hunting for the trade mark, 
or the hall mark on a friend's silver! 

The purchasing agent of the college gives lectures each quarter on 
centralized buying. The subject of the ethics and procedure of establish- 



374 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

ing credit with business firms is developed. Buyers, whose extensive 
experience and success are well known, give some of the other practical 
aspects of dealing in large quantities; for instance, buying in carload 
lots, storage and handling of meat, and dealing in futures. 

We do not attempt in this course to include administrative phases 
of institutional work, as these problems come properly in institutional 
management. We do, however, study the storeroom, requisition systems, 
and the modern perpetual inventor}^ methods, because they are inex- 
tricably bound up with the details of purchasing and distribution within 
the institution. The students make the wholesale orders for groceries 
for the daily luncheon and tea service. They also check the bills and 
learn to read the strange abbreviations of the trade. They estimate the 
discounts, and incidentally learn the sources of supply. 

The class is making a collection of samples which wi]l become a per- 
manent exhibit: for example, insulating materials for refrigerators, fill- 
ing for mattresses, samples of institutional cotton and linen, and the 
many other materials which show differences in value and will make 
points in selection more clear. We make constant use of hotel and 
hospital magazines, the Journal of Home Economics, and others which 
include an institutional section. The undergraduates are encouraged 
to take summer positions in kitchen or dining room work as preparation 
for these courses. A number of the girls go to National Park or the lake 
resorts and combine institutional experience with the pleasures of travel 
and vacation. 

We hope to develop the kinds of courses which will attract women of 
talent and experience, who have not had opportunity for technical 
training, as well as graduate students who wish to specialize. Other 
departments on the campus cooperate to enrich our courses. The 
Department of Economic Science offers a course in institutional account- 
ing; there are electives in business psychology, applied art and history, 
journalism and advertising, and other related subjects which, woven 
together, give the student, who wishes to specialize in this phase of home 
economics, a broad background. 

To quote Mary A. Lindsley of the Grace Dodge Hotel, the 
important part of institutional work is not what is done but "how it 
is done and what is done to glorify it." Certainly this is our function 
in college teaching, to glorify work, and to direct and stimulate the 
enthusiasm of college students, for it is they who in the near future will 
become the competent assistants, the clever purchasing agents, the wise 
and efficient managers of public dining rooms. 



1922] TEACHIXG LUNCH ROOM AND SPECLA.L COOKERY 375 

PROJECT METHOD OF TEACHING LUNCH ROOM ANT) SPECL^L 
COOKERY 

RACHEL S. H.ARRISON 
Director of Homanaking, Whitehall, N. Y. 

OUTLINE OF SECOND YEAR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE 
TIME, I3 HOURS DAILY FOR 20 WEEKS 

Aims of the course 

To develop girrs responsibility. 

To develop managing ability. 

To train girls to think for themselves. 

To teach proper food for children of different ages, especially of school 

age. 
To teach good eating habits. 
To teach girls to enjoy all foods. 
To improve the family dietar}% 
To make girls intelligent buyers of food. 
To increase speed in preparation of food. 
To teach economy in the use of fuel. 
To teach neatness and orderliness in all work. 

To develop ability to take entire charge of one's home food problems. 
To develop ability to plan, prepare, and serve suitable meals for all 

types of people. 
To develop ability to figure costs in money and labor quickly, also to 

estimate same. 
To teach simple banking. 
To teach accounting and its value. 
To teach appreciation of the value of personal influence and to know how 

to use one's own for improvement of conditions in markets, bakeries, 

dairies, etc. 
To develop a true spirit of hospitality. 

Units oj the course 

A. Informal receptions for mothers, H. E. Day, etc. 

Discussion of purpose of gathering. Selecting guests. Invitations. 
Planning entertainment. Program of some sort. Exliibition work. 
Conversation. Place for wraps. Types of refreshments usually 
served — very simple, more elaborate. Decoration of room and table. 
Actual preparation of food. Serving. Marketing. Receiving and 
entertaining. 



376 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

B. Food sales 

Discussion of foods usually served. Foods for which there is the great- 
est demand and those on which the most profit can be made. Plan- 
ning and arranging for place and date of sale. Means of advertising — 
making posters. Consideration of dishes for sales at special times, 
e.g. plum pudding at Thanksgiving time. Management and conduct 
of sale. Use of oven to best advantage. What foods can be made 
ahead. Actual baking. Actual sales. Figuring profits. 

C. Box lunches 

Study of general characteristics of good box lunches. Requirements of 
a box lunch for school children of different ages; for older members 
of family. Containers and packing. Comparison of cost of packed 
lunch with cost of cafeteria lunch. Hygiene of eating lunch. Prepa- 
ration of individual foods that might be carried. Marketing. Prepa- 
ration and packing of lunches for various ages of children and types 
of adults. Putting up train lunches for teachers at vacation times. 

D. Picnics 

Study of different types of picnic meals. Value of picnic as a recreation. 
Attractive picnic places in vicinity, how to get to them, effort and 
length of time it takes, advantages and disadvantages of each place. 
Planning food for picnics for different groups. Distribution as to 
what each shall bring. Entertainment. Cooking picnic foods. 
Service. Marketing. Actual picnics. The indoor picnic for winter 
months studied and given. Figuring costs. 

E. Special Dinners 

Study of more formal dinners. Room and table decorations. Making 
and buying place cards, favors, etc.; cost and attractiveness of each 
compared. Invitations. Receiving guests. Kind of meal dependent 
on types of those served. Table service. Preparation of special 
foods with special attention to fancy dishes. Planning, marketing 
for, preparing, and serving actual meals. Figuring costs. 

F. Cafeteria 

I. Organization at school. 

A. Time — ^Every day throughout the course. 

B. Content. 

1. Points to be considered. 

(a) Need of cafeteria in community. 

(b) Educational value to patrons. 

(c) Necessary food for school children with special 

reference to undernourished. 

(d) Organization of work. 

(e) Marketing. 

(f) How improve on last years's cafeteria. 

(g) Study of fuels used. 



1922] TEACHING LUNCH ROOM AND SPECIAL COOKERY 377 

(h) Actual preparation of foods with special attention 
to neatness, cleanliness, attractiveness, speed. 

(i) Serving. 

(j) Cleaning up afterwards. 
2. Method. 

(a) Discussion of the need and the educational value, 
(b, c) Reference work regarding dietetic needs of school 
children, including undernourished. News- 
paper articles regarding same written by girls 
in English classes, if possible, and pubhshed in 
school and village papers. Posters advocating 
use of milk, etc., made and exhibited in rooms, 
some made in drawing classes. Talks or papers 
presented by girls to grade rooms. Reference 
work — how to vary essential foods. 

(d) Girl to be manager with entire responsibility for 

one week early in course and another week 
later on. Contest as to best manager from 
standpoints of good managing ability, satis- 
factory results as to foods served, satisfaction 
of patrons, condition of room, profits. Trip 
to bank, study of checks, bank book, balance 
sheets. 

(e) Trips to local bakeries, markets, and stores. 

(f) Discussion of the good and bad points of last 

year's cafeteria. Girls write to other schools 
to find out their methods. 

(g) Keeping records of amount of fuels used and cost 

of same, 
(h-j) Discussion and reference work on points to be 
observed in cooking, serving, cleaning. 
II. Home work. 

All girls required to prepare material for posters and news bul- 
letins, look up recipes and magazine articles, write letters, and 
get suggestions as to food for children. Manager to do bank- 
ing and marketing and get prices from diiJerent stores. 
III. Class room reports and discussions of home work. 

Recipes classified, discussed, compared, selected by class. News- 
paper articles read, discussed, and verified by reference work. 
Replies from schools read and discussed. Posters criticized 
from standpoint of whether or not they really have a message. 
Suggestions from children reported and class decides what to 
provide. Manager reports funds, and class decides what to 
do. Manager also reports best places to buy. 



378 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

IV. Home project — The planning and marketing for all the meals for 
one week and the preparation of the suppers and all the meals 
on Saturday and Sunday, having guests for at least one meal. 
This could arise from the girls interest in her dietetic study, and 
her desire to impro\-e her famOy's food habits and to show them 
what she has learned. Mother's interest secured by visiting the 
home and inviting her to school to see class at work. 

A. Aims — To develop girl's ability to take entire charge of her 

family's food problem, excepting food for the sick. To 
develop responsibility, managing ability, marketing abihty. 
To improve the family dietary. To develop the idea of 
hospitality. 

B. Content of plan from student point of view. 

1. WTiat do I wish to accomplish? 

(a) Improve my family's dietary, (b) Help my 
mother, (c) Reduce cost of family food, (d) 
Prove my ability. 

2. What must I know? 

(a) Family's food habits, (b) Amount to be spent 
for food, (c) How to prepare the usual foods, 
(d) Family's food requirements, (e) How to 
buy. (f) Materials on hand — staple groceries, 
preserved foods, garden produce, chickens. 

3. WTiat must I do? 

(a) Plan meals, (b) Plan time for preparation, (c) 
Market, (d) Prepare and serve meals, (e) 
Clear away, (f) Keep record of time, (g) 
Keep record of cost. 

4. Where can I get help? 

(a) Mother, (b) Teacher, (c) Cookbooks, (d) Ref- 
erence books, (e) Magazines, (f) Newspapers 
(g) Store clerks. 

5. When will I do the work? 

(a) Planning meals — general planning, week in ad- 
vance, more definite planning, one day ahead. 

(b) Marketing — as much as possible a week 
ahead, any daily marketing right after school. 

(c) Preparation — suppers in afternoon, Satur- 
day and Sunday meals, Saturday morning 
baking, (d) Accounting and reports — in even- 
ing or as soon after marketing as practical. 



1922] THE PAPER DRESS FORM 379 

6. WTiat supervision will I need? 

(a) IMother to approve meals, especially those she 
is to use, to approve market order, to help 
with any difficult dishes, (b) Teacher to help 
with plans, suggest short cuts. 

7. What records must I keep? 

(a) Family members and what they do. (b) Menus 
planned, (c) Menus served by me; results, 
(d) Time used in planning, marketing, prepa- 
ration, etc. (e) Accounts, (f) My own judg- 
ment of mj- work, (g) Benefit work has been 
tome. 
C. Super\-ision of work. 

1. Original contact. jNIother at school during class lesson. 

2. Conferences. Individual or individual and group, ac- 

cording to number of children on same project. Time 
during class set aside each week. 

3. Home visits. Before project begins. Once while girl 

is preparing a meal. 

4. Reports. Oral at conferences. Final written. 



THE PAPER DRESS FORM 

AUJLA LONG 

Bead of Department of Houselwld Arts, Bradley Polytechnic Institute 

The paper dress forms which are so generally advocated by extension 
workers as an excellent aid to the home dressmaker offer an equally 
valuable suggestion for college classes in elementary or advanced dress- 
making. The advantages of having a relatively accurate cast of the 
figure to be clothed, the small expense of manufacture, and the ease with 
which these light weight forms may be handled far outweigh any tem- 
porary discomfort the model experiences while the form is being made, 
and the slight inaccuracies which may occur in making or from the 
warping of the paper. In groups of people working together, there are 
always variations in types of build to such an extent that no one type of 
costume is suited to all. The difficulty of translating the problems of 
each of these types to something definite and concrete is greatly reduced 



380 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

b}^ a study of these casts and experimentation mth paper and cloth 
patterns of various kinds. Pattern modelling can be done on these 
forms with speed and accuracy, and clothing can be tested for fit and 
general lines with such satisfaction that it seems altogether reasonable 
to believe that the time is not far off when every college course in gar- 
ment construction will include work with these casts. 

Various sets of directions^ for making these paper dress forms have 
been made available. In general, they have been excellent. Upon 
working with the problem over an extended time, and experimenting 
with it as a problem for college classes in dressmaking, a few conclusions 
have been reached which may be of use to others who are interested in 
the subject. First, the knitted vest over which the strips are glued 
should be as thin as possible. Any excess material which may appear 
under the arm should be cut away after the vest is sewed up to fit the 
figure. The material cut from the lower part of the sleeves makes the 
best piecings to fill in the high neck, if the ribs of the knitted fabrics run 
vertical and the pieces are sewed to the vest before the strips are glued 
on. If the strips are too wet, the danger of warping is greatly increased. 

In starting to apply the strips, place two down the middle of the back 
and middle of the front about three quarters of an inch apart. The 
space between these strips should be left intact. When the cast is ready 
to be removed, the cloth between these strips is easily cut so that the 
halves can be slipped off; when the parts are put together again, the 
increase in size of the paper form over that of the individual is just about 
offset when the edges of these middle strips meet. 

In gluing the strips in place, the direction which they take varies 
with each individual. It proved a good rule to let the strip follow the 
lines of the figure easily. Starting from the front, a strip may go down 
and back under the arms and finish at the back of the hips. It is im- 
portant to have the strips smooth, not too tight, and to arrange them so 
that the thickness is evenly distributed. When one layer of the strips 
has been put on, the next layer should be placed in the opposite direction. 
Strips one inch wide should be lapped one half their width. It is neces- 
sary for the model to dress as she usually does, since every line and 
proportion is reproduced in the cast. 

The method of procedure to save time and to avoid undue weariness 
on the part of the model is most important. One should have plenty 

'The Paper Dress Form, OiEce of Extension Work, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Wasliington, Dept. Circular 207. 

Woman's Home Companion, October, 1921. 
Liberty Paper Co., New York. 



1922] THE PAPER DRESS FORM 381 

of strips cut before the gluing is begun. If the 800 foot rolls of paper 
are used, strips about the right length can be prepared quickly by using 
a safety-razor blade to make slanting cuts on opposite sides of the roll. 
With one person moistening strips and two persons putting them on, a 
cast can be brought to the point where it may be taken off the figure in 
about 50 minutes. For some, it has proved much less wearisome to 
start gluing the strips at the hips, placing the two layers before working 
on the upper part. The feeling of chill and compression due to having 
the upper part of the figure encased in the moist, stiff strips is the most 
disagreeable part of the process, and for that reason it seems best to 
finish the lower part of the cast before working on the upper. In stand- 
ing, one shoulder is apt to drop below the level of the other. Before 
encasing either shoulder, place two or three strips over both shoulders, 
bringing the strips down well toward the waist. 

To finish off the cast after removing from the figure, match up the 
sides perfectly and glue the parts together while still damp. Cover the 
thin places with short strips, and bind all cut edges with short pieces 
laid in vertical lines. This binding diminishes the tendency of the cut 
edges to turn inward. The remaining two layers for strength and stiffness 
may then be put on at any time. The ffnal layer is best done with 
strips about a foot long, since with these it is easy to make the surface 
smooth. 

In using these forms, it has been demonstrated that a very short 
sleeve is advisable. One should make the cast long enough at the shoulder 
and sleeve to give a good idea of the thickness and curve of the upper 
arm, but short enough to avoid interference with the pinning of under 
arm seams. The group of people observed for the purpose of this paper 
cut off the sleeve of the cast from the underarm seam to a point about 
one inch below the edge of the shoulder. 

For draping materials on the dress form, a covering of muslin or knitted 
fabric is helpful, although the many thicknesses of paper withstand a 
remarkable amount of pinning. For skirts, a cloth or paper lining of 
the correct silhouette and the correct length shortens the time of fitting 
and hanging very materially. 

The cost of the forms is little. An 800 foot roll of gummed tape costs 
about 20 cents. Two of these will make a large form. An old knitted 
vest may be used and the wood for the standard costs about 40 cents. 
All told, this experiment has been interesting, in point of time saving, 
and as a stimulus to the better solution of the individual's costuming 
problems. 



382 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

EFFECT OF BLEACHING ON TENSILE STRENGTH OF 
COTTON FABRICS 

RUTH o'bRTEN and MARY LOUISE PRICE 
Dcpartmenl of Chemistry, Iowa State College 

{Conthmed from June) 

The change in tensile strength shown by the cotton samples under the 
various bleaching conditions is indicated in tables I to X. 

DISCUSSION 

In these tables it will be noticed that there is a rise in tensile strength 
above that of the original sample. This checks the work on yam at 
the Manchester School of Technology. 

The rise comes, in general, with low strengths of chemic, reaching 
its maximum at about one chlorometric degree initial strength and drop- 
ping back to standard or below at about three and five tenths chloro- 
metric degrees. Bleaching was noticeable al the maximum tensile 
strength and was complete in strengths below those required to bring 
breaking strength back to that of the original. This would bear out 
experimentally O'Neil's statement that bleaching if properly conducted 
should increase tensile strength. 

In attempting to account for the rise in tensile strength various checks 
were run. First the effect of a three hour water immersion was tried. 
This was found to have no measurable effect on tensile strength. It 
was impossible to measure closer than the half pound, so a slight increase 
in tensile strength due to shrinkage, which might logically exist, was not 
recorded. 

The possibility of the action being one of mercerization due to the 
Ca(0H)2 formed by the calcium hypochlorite was tested. Three hour 
exposure to a saturated solution of Ca(0H)2 had no effect on tensile 
strength. This is not surprising in view of the fact that we cannot 
secure a strongly alkaline solution from Ca(0H)2 since it is soluble but 
to the extent of 0.17 grams per 100 cubic centimeters, and forty per 
cent solutions of alkalies are used in mercerization. The rise in tensile 
strength seems therefore to be produced by the bleaching action and 
not by the water or alkali. 

When the initial bleach is beyond approximately three and five tenths 
chlorometric degrees we have a fabric lower in strength than the original. 



1922] 



EFFECT OF BLEACHING OF COTTON FABRICS 



383 



This is in harmony with the popularly accepted belief that bleaching 
lowers tensUe strength. If bleaching converts cellulose to oxycellulose 
the amount of conversion should be proportionate to the strength of 
the bleach. 

An investigation was made based on Moore's statement that the 
depth of color obtained with methelene blue is an indication of the amount 
of o.xycellulose. Samples which had been exposed to the light for three 
months were weighed accurately and dyed in four per cent methylene 
blue. The results obtained would show that the amount of oxycellulose 
is proportionate to the depth of color with methylene blue. The lower 
grade muslin, sample B, did not seem to show so high a coloration as 
Sample A, indicating less o.xycellulose. The tabulated data shows also 
that Sample B did not exhibit so much fall of tensile strength after three 
months light exposure as did the more closely woven fabric. This 
may be due to the fact that the more open fabric was more thoroughly 
rinsed, and the effect of the bleach on the libers was therefore more 
completely stopped. 



TABLE I 
Sample A warp. Bleached with bleaching powder 



nnriAi. shiength of bleach 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER SAMPLES 
WERE IMMERSED THREE HODRS 


CHLORO- 

METRIC 

DEGREES 

ABSORBED 


TENSILE STSENGXH 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
add 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


CWoro- 
metric 
degrees 


Just after 
bleaching 


.\fter three 
months 
exposure 
to light 


cc. 


cc. 




cc. 


cc. 































31.5 


31.5 


318.3 


10 


0.16 


510.1 


10 


0.10 


0.06 


34.0 


33.0 


255.4 


10 


0.20 


392.3 


10 


0.13 


0.07 


34.0 


33.5 


212.2 


10 


0.24 


340.1 


10 


0.15 


0.09 


34.0 


33.0 


106.5 


10 


0.48 


106.2 


10 


0.31 


0.17 


34.0 


33.0 


62.1 


10 


0.82 


82.1 


10 


0.62 


0.20 


33.5 


33.0 


33.2 


10 


1.27 


54.8 


10 


0.93 


0.34 


33.0 


32.5 


29.6 


10 


1.72 


47.5 


10 


1.36 


0.36 


33.0 


32.0 


24.3 


10 


2.10 


30.1 


10 


1.70 


0.40 


33.0 


31.5 


20.9 


10 


2.44 


25.6 


10 


2.00 


0.44 


32.5 


31.5 


18.4 


10 


2.76 


22.2 


10 


2.30 


0.46 


32.0 


30.0 


16.1 


10 


3.16 


19.6 


10 


2.60 


0.50 


32.0 


30.0 


15.2 


10 


3.37 


17.9 


10 


2.85 


0.52 


32.0 


30.5 


14.3 


10 


3.56 


16.8 


10 


3.02 


0.54 


31.5 


30.0 


13.2 


10 


3.85 


15.6 


10 


3.26 


0.59 


31.5 


29.5 


12.1 


10 


4.19 


14.2 


10 


3.58 


0.61 


31.0 


28.0 


11.7 


10 


4.34 


13.7 


10 


3.72 


0.62 


30.0 


26.0 


11.2 


10 


4.52 


13.3 


10 


3.81 


0.71 


29.0 


24.0 



384 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



TABLE II 
Sample A weft. Bleached mth bleaching powder 



IN7T1AL STRENGTH OF BLEACH 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER SAMPLES 
WERE IMMERSED THREE HOURS 


CHLORO- 

DEGREES 
ABSORBED 


TENSILE STRENGTH 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Just after 
bleaching 


After three 
months 
exposure 
to light 



637.0 
425.0 

283.3 
242.8 
188.0 
150.2 
64.5 
39.2 
18.4 
13.0 
10.9 



10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 




0.08 

0.12 

0.18 

0.21 

0.27 

0.34 

0.79 

1.30 

2.76 

3.91 

4.57 




1020.0 

850.0 

463.6 

392.3 

300.0 

231.8 

80.9 

52.5 

22.0 

15.8 

13.2 



10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 




0.05 

0.06 

0.11 

0.13 

0.17 

0.22 

0.60 

0.97 

2.31 

3.22 

3.86 




0.03 

0.06 

0.07 

0.08 

0.10 

0.12 

0.19 

0.33 

0.45 

0.68 

0.71 


28.0 
29.5 
30.0 
30.0 
30.0 
30.0 
30.0 
29.0 
29.0 
28.5 
27.5 
26.0 


28.0 
29.0 
29.5 
29.5 
29.0 
29.0 
28.0 
28 
28.0 
27.5 
26.0 
24.0 



TABLE III 

Sample A warp. Bleached wilh sodium hypochlorite 



INITIAL STRENGTH OF BLEACH 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER SAMPLES 
WERE IMMERSED THREE HOURS 


METRIC 
ABSORBED 


TENSILE STRENGTH 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Just after 
bleaching 


After three 
months 
e.\posure 
to light 























31.5 


31.5 


348.0 


10 


0.14 


566.6 


10 


09 


0.05 


34.0 


33.5 


149.8 


10 


0.34 


212.4 


10 


0.24 


0.10 


34.0 


33.0 


106.7 


10 


0.48 


141,7 


10 


0.36 


0.12 


34.0 


33.0 


48.1 


10 


1.06 


62.3 


10 


0.82 


0.24 


33. S 


32.5 


17.3 


10 


3.52 


17.1 


10 


2. 98 


0.54 


31.0 


30.0 


11.6 


10 


4.36 


14.1 


10 


3.61 


0.75 


29.5 


28.0 


10.1 


10 


5.05 


12.1 


10 


4.19 


0.86 


27.5 


26.0 


8.2 


10 


6.22 


9.8 


10 


5.17 


1.05 


27.0 


25.5 



The three month exposure to sunlight was made during the summer 
and the eiifect of the strong sunlight was not nearly so great as was ex- 
pected on the basis of what we know of the effect of sunlight on the 
strength of fabrics. It is possible that commercially bleached fabrics 
are not so completely rinsed as were these samples. If material is not 
thoroughly rinsed after bleaching it becomes very tender, for samples 



1922] 



EFFECT OF BLEACHING OF COTTON FABRICS 



385 



were bleached ^ath calcium hypochlorite of three and five tenths chlo- 
rometric degrees and dried without rinsing. When exposed to sunlight 
one month they tore as soon as the Jaws of the tensile strength ma- 
chine began to move, no tensile strength being recorded. 

TABLE IV 
Sample A v.'cjt. Bleached U'ilh sodiuvi hypochlorite 



INITIAI. STEEKGTH OF BLEACH 


STREN-GTH OF BLE.\CH AFTER THREE 
HOUR EXPOSURE OF SAMPLES 


METRIC 
ABSORBED 


TENSILE STRESGTH 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Chemic 


.Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Just after 
bleaching 


Mln three 
months 
e.'tposure 
to light 



318.5 
149.2 
64.3 
33.2 
21.2 
17.3 
10.9 
9.4 



10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 




0.16 

0.34 

0.79 
1.27 
2.40 
3.52 
4.57 
5.42 



566.2 
242.4 
86.4 
54.7 
26.9 
17.5 
13.6 
12.1 



10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 




0.09 

0.21 

0.59 

0.93 

1.88 

2.91 

3.85 

4.21 




0.07 

0.13 

0.20 
0.34 
0.52 
0.61 
0.72 
1.21 


28.0 
30.0 
30.0 
30.0 
29.5 
27.5 
26.5 
25.0 
24.0 


28. 
30.0 
29.5 
29.0 
29.0 
27.0 
26.0 
24.5 
24.0 



TABLE V 

Sample A 'U'arp. Bleached uiSh sodium perborale 



INITLVL STRENGTH OF 


BLEACH 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER THREE 
HOUR EXPOSURE OF SAMPLES 




TEKSILE STRENGTH 


















Chemic 


Sodium 

thio- 
sulphate 


O.timetric 
degrees 


chemic 


Sodium 

thio- 
sulphate 


O.Timetric 
degrees 


ABSORBED 


Just after 
bleaching 


.\fter three 
months 

to light 























31.5 


31.0 


100 


2.7 


0.089 


100 


1.5 


0.036 


0.053 


34.0 


33.5 


100 


5.1 


0.066 


100 


2.1 


0.049 


0.017 


34.0 


33.5 


100 


9.8 


0.233 


100 


4.9 


0.112 


0.121 


34.0 


33.0 


100 


15.1 


0.359 


100 


10.7 


0.222 


0.137 


33.5 


33.0 


100 


25.0 


0.595 


100 


16.8 


0.401 


0.194 


33.0 


32.0 


100 


37.0 


0,880 


100 


25.0 


0.595 


0.285 


33.0 


32.0 


100 


54.0 


1.287 


100 


29.0 


0.89 


0.397 


32.5 


31.0 


100 


62.0 


1.513 


100 


43.7 


1.04 


0.473 


32.0 


30.5 


100 


76.9 


1.83 


100 


-SO. 8 


1.21 


0.62 


31.0 


30.0 


100 


117.6 


2.80 


100 


83.2 


1.98 


0.82 


31.0 


29.5 



The low and average strength of sodium perborate give a rise in ten- 
sile strength comparable to that obtained from equivalent strengths of 
the calcium and sodium hypochlorites. The higher strengths of sodium 
perborate do not affect the strength of the sample so much as do equiva- 
lent strengths of calcium and sodium hypochlorite. Starek claims that 



386 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



perborate does not affect tensile strength, but this statement was not 
entirely borne out. It does seem, however, that, either because of its 
solubility which renders it possible to remove it completely in rinsing, 
or because the oxygen alone does not so readily form oxycellulose as 
does the chlorine, sodium perborate does not cause so great a loss in 
tensile strength as does calcium or sodium hypochlorite. 

TABLE VI 
Sample A wefl. Bleached with sodium perborate 



DJITUL STRENGTH OF BLEACH 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER THREE 
HOUR EXPOSURE OF SAMPLES 


OXOfETRIC 
DEGREES 
ABSORBED 


TENSILE STRENGTH 


Perborate 


Sodium 

thio- 

sulphate 


0-\imetric 
degrees 


Perborate 


Sodium 

thio- 
sulphate 


O.'dmetric 
degrees 


Just after 
bleaching 


After three 
months 
exposure 
to light 



100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 




2.1 
5.1 
8.3 
15.1 
20.0 
32.7 
38.2 
63.8 
109.5 




0.049 

0.131 

0.198 

0.359 

0.480 

0.78 

0.91 

1.50 

2.61 



100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 




1.07 
2.24 
3.61 
9.8 
14.3 
20.8 
25.2 
42.5 
73.9 




0.022 

0.054 

0.086 

0.233 

0.331 

0.496 

0.601 

1.01 

1.76 




0.027 

0.077 

0.112 

0.126 

0.149 

0.284 

0.309 

0.49 

0.85 


28.0 
30.0 
30.0 
30.0 
29.5 
29.0 
28.5 
28.0 
28.0 
27.5 


28.0 
29.5 
29.5 
29.0 
29.0 
27.5 
27.0 
27.0 
27.0 
27.0 



TABLE VII 
Sample B warp. Bleached with bleaching powder 



INITIAL STRENGia OF BLEACH 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER SAMPLES 
WERE IMMERSED THREE HOURS 


CHLORO- 
METRIC 

ABSORBED 


TENSILE STRENGTH 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Chemic 


Arsenious 
acid 


Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 


Just after 
bleaching 


Alter three 
months 
exposure 
to light 




636.9 

283.6 

187.8 

106.3 

64.4 

33.2 

25.8 

18.2 

13.9 

10.4 



10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 




0.08 

0.18 

0.27 

0.48 

0.79 

1.27 

1.98 

2.75 

3.64 

4.90 




801.9 

424.8 

366.4 

170.2 

96.2 

57.9 

33.1 

22.5 

16.7 

12.5 




10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 




0.05 

0.12 

0.14 

0.30 

0.53 

0.88 

1.54 

2.26 

3.03 

4.08 




0.03 

0.06 

0.13 

0.18 

0.26 

0.39 

0.44 

0.49 

0.61 

0.82 


24.0 
26.0 
26.0 
26.0 
25.5 
24.0 
23.0 
22.0 
22.0 
21.0 
19.0 


24.0 
26.0 
26.0 
25.5 
25.0 
24.0 
22.5 
22.0 
21.0 
21.0 
IS.O 



1922] 



EFFECT OF BLEACHING OF COTTOX FABRICS 



387 



TABLE VIII 
Sample B weft. Bleached with bleaching po'ddcr 



DariAL STEtEN'GTH OF BLE.\CH 





463.4 
283.5 
94.6 
61.9 
29.7 
20.8 
14.2 
9.8 



Chloro- 
metric 
degrees 





0.11 

0.18 

0.54 

0.82 

1.72 

2.44 

3.58 

4.21 




849.9 
510.0 
134.2 
85.0 
39.3 
26.1 
17.2 
12.1 





0.06 

0.10 

0.38 

0.60 

1.30 

1.92 

2.97 

4.19 



CHLORO- 


TEKSILE STRENGTH 


DEGREES 
ABSORBED 


Just after 
bleaching 


After three 
months 
exposure 
to light 





21.0 


21.0 


0.05 


23.0 


22.5 


0.08 


23.0 


22.0 


0.16 


22.5 


22.0 


0.22 


22.0 


22.0 


0.42 


21.0 


21.0 


0.52 


19.0 


18.5 


0.61 


17.0 


16.5 


1.02 


IS.O 


14.0 



TABLE EX 
Sample B warp. Bleached ivith sodium perborate 



INITIAL STRENGTH OF BLEACH 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER THREE 
HOtE EXPOStJRE OF SAMPLES 




TE.N-SILE 














OXIMETRIC 
ABSORBED 




Perborate 


Sodium 

thio- 
sulphate 


Oximetric 
degrees 


Perborate 


Sodium 

thio- 
sulphate 


Oximetric 
degrees 


Just after 
bleaching 























24.0 


100 


3.7 


0.098 


100 


2.5 


0.059 


0.039 


26.0 


100 


5.4 


0.128 


100 


2.8 


0.067 


0.061 


26.5 


100 


10.7 


0.222 


100 


4.8 


0.114 


0.108 


25.5 


100 


20.8 


0.496 


100 


10.2 


0.245 


0.251 


24.0 


100 


38.2 


0.910 


100 


23.5 


0.561 


0.349 


23.0 


100 


79.4 


1.89 


100 


52.1 


1.26 


0.63 


22.0 



\fter three 
months 
exposure 
to light 



24.0 
26.0 
25.5 
25.0 
23.5 
23.0 
21.0 



TABLE X 
Sample B weft. Bleached with sodium perborate 



INITIAL STRENGTH OF BLEACH 


STRENGTH OF BLEACH AFTER THREE 
HOUR EXPOStJRE OF S.'^MPLES 




TENSILE STRENGTH 


Perborate 


Sodium 

thio- 
sulphate 


Oximetric 
degrees 


Perborate 


Sodium 

thio- 
sulphate 


O.ximetric 
degrees 


DEGREES 
ABSORBED 


Just after 
bleaching 


Alter three 
months 
exposure 
to light 



100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 




2.5 

3.8 

7.9 

15.1 

54.0 

98.0 




0.059 

0.091 

0.189 

0.359 

1.28 

2.32 



100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 




1.1 

2.1 

3.7 

6.3 

32.7 

62.1 




0.026 

0.049 

0.088 

0.150 

0.78 

1.47 




0.033 

0.042 

0.101 

0.209 

0.50 

0.85 


21.0 
23.0 
23.0 
22.5 
22.0 
21.0 
20.0 


21.0 
23.0 

22.5 
22.0 
22.0 
20.0 
19. S 



388 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

CONCLUSION 

In view of the results obtained it seems that the effect of bleaching 
on tensile strength is to increase that strength when a low or average 
strength bleaching solution is used, but to cause a fall in tensile strength 
with high strengths of bleach or when the bleaching solution is allowed 
to act on the fiber for a long time, as in the case of the unrinsed fabr'c. 

Since the checks run with water alone and with the saturated solution 
of calcium hydroxide did not measurably affect the tensile strength, it 
would seem that the change of tensile strength is due to the action of 
the bleach itself. 

In the presence of sunlight the tensile strength usually falls, the fall 
being less in the loosely woven sample. The amount of oxycellulose, 
as indicated by the depth of color in the tests with methylene blue, is 
also less in the runs on Sample B. This would indicate that where 
there is bleaching solution left on the fabric there is a continued forma- 
tion of oxycellulose and a consequent loss in tensile strength. 

The action of the bleach on cellulose is conceded to be the formation 
of oxycellulose. The chemical and physical properties of this com- 
pound are not well known but it is possible that the oxycelliilose may 
form a more or less gelatinous layer on the surface of the fiber. Leo 
Pingal (13), Director of the Public Testing Bureau for Textile Industry, 
Aachen, Germany, in his tests on the hygroscopic qualities of bleached 
and unbleached cotton, found bleached cotton to be less hygroscopic 
than unbleached. This was unexpected, in so much as by bleaching 
we remove the wax, fatty acids, coloring matter, pectin and albuminous 
matter, but was explained when it was discovered that the microscope 
showed a gelatinous coating over the fibers. This coating is very clearly 
shown by the micrographs accompanying the article. 

This coating, probably oxycellulose, might logically explain the rise 
in tensile strength, for the gelatinous coat would probably prevent the 
fibers from tearing apart so easily. If, however, the conversion of the 
cellulose to oxycellulose were so complete as to affect the major portion 
of the fiber, the tensile strength would fall. This was the effect noticed 
when higher strengths of bleach were used. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

(13) Pingal, Leo, Hygroscopic qualities of cotton, Textile World Record, May, 1913, p. 295. 

{Concluded) 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 389 

HOME ECONOMICS .^ND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

EMMA A. -VVTNSLOW 

Teachers College, Columbia Unhersily 

Fundamentally home economics is international. Everywhere it is 
the man, the woman, and the children who form the family group, and 
everywhere is the need for sohing the many detailed problems of pro- 
viding shelter, food, and clothing, and creating a happy family life. 

This was very noticeable at the Third International Congress on 
Home Economics held in Paris at the beautiful Hotel de La Rochefou- 
cauld. April 18-22, 1922. On the International Committee were repre- 
sentatives of many countries. M. Du Prey, formerly French Minister 
of Agriculture, was President of the Congress, and the other members 
of the French Committee were important government officials and 
representatives of various schools and professional groups in France. 
Delegates were present from thirty-three countries including most of 
the older and newer countries of Europe, Japan, China, Cuba, Me?aco, 
and the Argentine Republic. 

Under the present law, the United States can not participate in any 
international gathering without special authorization from Congress, 
and consequently there could be no official representation from this 
country at Paris. However, the American flag flew in the courtyard 
after the second day. Many people saw the publications sent from our 
Department of Agriculture and Bureau of Education, and I had the 
opportunity of speaking for a few minutes on the home economics work 
in our country. At the final meeting, at the Hotel de Ville, special 
thanks were given to America for its assistance and there was much 
applause, so that our representation, although limited, had perhaps 
considerable value in promoting better international relationships. 

At the first session of the Congress there were greetings from various 
officials. A summary of home economics work in different countries 
before, during, and after the war, was presented by M. Dausset, former 
president of the Municipal Council in Paris and now Senator from the 
Seine. 

The sessions of one day were used for a discussion of home economics 
in urban schools. With the exception of a woman inspector of home 
economics from Belgium, the speakers were deputies from various sec- 
tions in France. 



390 THE JOtJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Home economics in the rural districts was the topic on the second day. 
M. Van Der Vaeren, General Inspector of Agriculture in Belgium, spoke 
on the work in the primary and secondary schools. French officials 
discussed extension work and the work in the normal schools of agricul- 
ture. 

The subject on the third day was home economics in relation to 
science and to social life. The addresses included a general paper on 
professional education, a practical one on training for domestic service 
by Mme. Bonnabry of the Professional School at Fribourg, an excellent 
presentation of the relationship between science and home economics 
by Dr. de la Riviere of Pasteur Institute, and a paper on the value of 
home economics in improving home conditions and thus economic and 
social conditions.^ 

In addition to the papers announced on the program, innumerable 
communications were received. This meant that many different topics 
were presented in a short time and there was little opportunity for reach- 
ing any constructive conclusion. Competition among different countries 
for national recognition, often bringing this rather than home economics 
into ascendency, made me thankful that sectional jealousies are of so 
little importance in our American conferences. 

A number of the delegates had \asited the United States, and told me 
how much they had profited by what they had seen. Reports came 
from France, Belgium, Czecho-Slovakia, Poland, Holland, Norway, 
and Cuba. 

In turn, I was struck by the extent to which we had been influenced 
by Europe in our earlier work and the distance we have gone from it in 
our more recent work. From various countries came exhibitions of 
sewing models exactly like those over which I had struggled in my normal 
training. I remember one which showed the different ways of making 
fastenings and which had many buttons and buttonholes and hooks and 
eyes and loops and eyelets arranged in a most useless but orderly way. 
There were models of hems and tucks and seams arranged in the little 
books for the first year's course, and the elaborate patching and darning 
and embroidery in the books for the second year's course. Apparently 
only in the more advanced work came the actual construction of gar- 
ments, and there was little evidence of the inclusion of the rich thought 

' Copies of the proceedings vn]l be available later from the International Office at Fribourg 
by payment of a small fee. 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 391 

content which we are recognizing as an important part of such educa- 
tional work. The same was true of cooker3\ The emphasis was placed 
on the gaining of technique, as was the case in the instruction in laundry 
and housewifery, in which much more time is spent than is customary 
with us. Instruction is also given in child care but chiefly from the 
standpoint of the mother's care of a child. 

Home economics is required in most countries for the girls in the 
elementary schools. In the household schools, for the older girls, 
practically full time is given to the study of home economics, much of 
it being spent in laboratory work. There is excellent work for the 
women and girls in industry. The training of teachers is given in 
special schools usuallj^ with a course of only one or two years. The 
course at King's College, London, is the only one in Great Britain 
leading to a college degree, but there is interest elsewhere in Great 
Britain in having the work at certain technical schools recognized by 
the universities and counted towards a degree. I heard no mention of 
such interest in the reports from the continent, although there was 
discussion of the necessity for better professional training of teachers. 

Home economics work in Europe, however, has achieved recognition 
which as yet I think we have not achieved in Amicrica. Important 
government officials in many countries were active participants as 
speakers or delegates. In France, as I was told over and over again, 
it is the women of the best families who are interested in the home econo- 
mics work, for they see the importance of ha\dng the daughter? well 
trained to manage every detail of their future homes. This training 
for home making is ever}T\'here the guiding principle in home economics 
work, and it is apparently well organized to meet this particular need in 
the various countries. "L'element \-ital d'un peuple est au Foyer, et 
c'est la Femme qui fait ou defait le Foyer," was a statement made over 
and over again. We hear this, too, in America, but I think I have 
never heard it stated so vigorously, nor with so much emphasis placed 
on the influence of home economics in lessening a grave national danger. 

In conclusion I should like to make certain suggestions with reference 
to participation by the Association in any future international conference. 

1. If possible, in addition to representation on the International 
Committee, have an American, resident in the country where the con- 
ference is to be held, made a member of the committee on arrangements. 
This win be especially necessary if the ruling is still in force in the United 
States against any official participation in international conferences, as 



392 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

there seems little conception over here of representation except 
officially. 

2. Have as large a delegation as possible, uith at least one member 
who can understand and speak the official language of the conference. 

3. Have a well organized exhibit showing in detail the various types 
of home economics work. Have explanatory notes in French as well as 
in English. If possible, have a small leaflet for distribution at the 
Congress, giving a brief description of work being done in various places, 
and detailed information about sources of help for those who wish to 
write and for those who plan to visit the United States. 

4. Formulate proposals to be introduced at the Congress, which will 
assist in making American standards influential in promoting home 
economics throughout the world. Each country has to work out the 
details of subject matter and method of organization, but the fundamen- 
tal ideals are the same. At the next International Conference, I am 
hoping that much more may be accomplished in bringing our work into 
closer relationship with what is being done elsewhere. 

This year I have been studying most of the time in England, but I 
have been also in Holland, Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, and 
France, and have attended several international conferences in London 
as well as this one in Paris. Everj-where there has been the greatest 
curiosity about America, especially about home life in America and about 
our educational methods. America is not always liked over here, but 
it has suddenly become a powerful, although unknown, influence. For 
this reason it seems most important that our home economics workers 
keep closely in touch with those in other countries so that we can exert 
a real influence in helping them to understand the high standards in 
family life for which we are aiming, and the way in which we are relating 
our work to various types of educational and social effort. At the 
same time there is much which we can learn from other countries with 
longer experience in establishing high standards of home life adopted 
to local conditions, and in organizing effective educational effort. 



EDITORIAL 

The American Academy of Political and Social Science. The 

American Home Economics Association was one of a large number of 
organizations in educational, industrial, political, and economic fields, 
requested to send delegates to the annual meeting of the American Acad- 
emy of Political and Social Science in Philadelphia, May 12-13. The 
program was a development of various phases of the general topic, 
America's Relation to the European Situation. Ofhcial representatives 
from many European nations, financiers, writers, industrial leaders, 
legislators, labor leaders, experts on tariiT and commerce commissions, 
and women from England, France, and Germany, representing interna- 
tional organizations, discussed from their respective points of view the 
indispensability of American cooperation in the financial, industrial, 
and political rehabilitation of Europe. 

Not only does Europe need America, but these speakers believe that 
American prosperity is dependent upon European rehabilitation; thus 
our own standards of living are affected by conditions determining stand- 
ards of living in Europe. Practically all articles used in everyday life 
are dependent on some imported material for their production, and 
economic conditions seemingly remote are reflected in our own life. 
For instance, the collapse of Russia has destroyed the largest market 
for Chinese tea and silks; China was one of the largest markets for 
cotton goods spun in Manchester, England, and, as a result of China's 
present inability to purchase these goods, over 60 per cent of the spinners 
in Manchester are unemployed and the standard of living has been 
lowered to a striking degree; Manchester was one of the great markets 
for American cotton, and the decline of this market affects the income 
and standard of living of all persons in this country concerned with the 
production of cotton. Numerous similar illustrations could be given. 
International trade, European debts, loans, industrial and political situa- 
tions arc subjects of vital interest, not alone to financiers, politicians, 
and economists, but to all women who are working for the improvement 
of the American home and the betterment of living conditions. 

Qualifications of a Home Economics Teacher. Inapaper recently 
presented at a conference of home economics teachers at Lexington, 
Kentucky, Miss Maybelle Cornell, head of the Department of Home 
Economics, University of Kentucky, sets a high standard of training 

393 



394 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

and personal qualification for the woman who would teach home eco, 
nomics. Her training should be divided into four groups: cultural- 
scientific, technical, and educational. To thorough, balanced develop- 
ment in these lines she must add adaptability, atractive personality, 
understanding of home problems, and interest in her work and her 
students. Above all, she must relate her work with the individual to 
the welfare of the community; she must have a social point of view. 
Miss Cornell says. "To be a successful teacher of home economics in 
the secondary schools she must believe in her work as a fundamental 
need of mankind, as a source of good to the community. This should 
not be demonstrated through spectacular dinners for different organiza- 
tions, as these have very little educational value. The teacher should 
show her work through the improved physical condition of her students 
and their wholesome mental attitude, through the spirit of the school, 
and through the improved conditions of the community." 

Standards for Work in the Elementary Schools. The latest contri- 
bution to the work of setting standards for home economics in elementary 
schools is made by the Department of Household Arts Education of 
Teachers College, Columbia University. "Home Economics Informa- 
tion Tests" for girls completing the eighth grade have been prepared by 
groups of graduate students. This extensive piece of work, carried on 
over a period of two years, has been given a preliminary test in five dif- 
ferent types of classes in New York City. 

There are three sets of tests dealing with food, clothing, and other prob- 
lems of the home, respectively. The various tests in each set have dif- 
ferent values of importance, and arrangements for scoring have been 
simplified. By checking the scores, teachers will see which parts of 
their teaching have functioned. 

Copies of this excellent work may be secured through the Bureau of 
Publications, Teachers College, and are available for home economics 
teachers who wish to give these tests to girls completing the eighth grade. 

Pirquet's Nutritional Index. Pirquet's strange sounding vocabu- 
lary expresses facts which are not new in themselves but which are 
viewed all the more critically for having been approached in this new 
fashion; the situation which caused Pirquet to coin the words, pelidisi, 
sacratama, nem, et cetera, was different from the situation now confront- 
ing us in America. After the war, there was an immediate necessity 
for wholesale feeding in order to save the young life of Austria. Thou- 



1922] EDITORLA.L 395 

sands of hungry and undernourished children had to be fed from pub- 
He kitchens, and a sound and scientific administration necessitated an 
answer to these two important questions: by what standard should the 
child be judged underweight and in need of food from the public 
kitchen ; and how much food does he need daily to be brought back to a 
normal state of nutrition? Pirquet answered the first question by the 
pelidisi and the second in terms of nems. 

The pelidisi is the nutritional index and shows the relationship between 
weight and the sitting height which Pirquet believes to be a more ac- 
curate basis of comparison that standing height. In the normal individ- 

\ 10 X weight (in grams) 

ual, -; — : — -, — r-, — 7. r^ r = 100 per cent. Deviations from 

sitting height (in centimeters) 

this normal value indicate the state of nutrition; for example, the thinner 

the person of a given sitting height, the lower will be the percentage of 

nutrition or the pelidisi. Pelidisi aims to tell the same story as Wood's 

height-weight scales even though it is based upon sitting height and is 

expressed in percentages. Pirquet finds that any child with a pelidisi 

below 95 per cent is sufficiently underweight to need attention. 

Another word which he uses to describe the conditions found by physical 

examination is sacratama, also coined by assembling the first letter or 

syllable of the words of a descriptive phrase. A normal pelidisi almost 

invariably accompanies a normal sacratama, as would be expected. 

Reviews of Pirquet's clinics can be read in the medical journals of this 

country. '•- 

The nem is the fuel value of one gram of milk; the nem value of other 
foods is nothing more or less than a ratio of the calorie value of one 
gram of the food to that of one gram of milk. His reason for adopting 
such a word is that the meaning of nem can be explained to the layman 
in an understandable manner, whereas it is difiicult for anyone except 
the physicist to grasp the meaning of the calorie. Pirquet's method of 
arriving at the optimum amount of the daily feedings by calculating 
the absorption capacity of the child for his sitting height in centimeters 
seems too hypothetical for a very serious consideration. 

Pirquet's nutritional index, applied to American children and to the 
measurements for young men accepted by the United States Army, 
shows a pelidisi of only about 94 to 95 per cent, a value which Pirquet 

> Faber, H. K., Amer. Jour. Dis. Child., 1920, 19: 478. 
• Carter, W. E., Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1921, 77: 1541. 



396 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

considers as indicative of marked undernutrition.' Faber/ has compared 
the pelidisi of a group of American children with the nutrition rating on 
the Wood scale for the same group and finds that only about one-fourth 
showed comparable indices by the two methods and "in many cases the 
divergences were so great as to be absurd." The Wood scales are 
admittedly faulty, but the critics of Pirquet's index doubt the remedial 
effects of a change to a standard which is based largely upon theoretical 
assumptions rather than on direct observations of thousands of cases 
as the Wood scales are known to be. There is the possibility, suggested 
by some of its more lenient critics, of so changing the factor in the ratio 
of weight to sitting height that there can be made some such pelidisi 
chart of reasonable accuracy for American conditions which can be 
adapted to use in the rapid examination of large groups of children. 

Sybil Woodruff. 
OPEN FORUM 

A College Demonstration. The invitation of the Multnomah 
Hotel manager of Portland, Oregon, to the School of Home Economics 
of the Oregon State Agricultural College to cook and serve a dinner to 
the guests of the hotel, came at the end of the senior excursion to Portland 
to visit factories, packing plants, bakeries, and other establishments, 
and served as a challenge to 35 young women of that division. 

The railroad tickets of the young women were furnished to them by 
the college and they and the faculty advisors who accompanied them 
were guests of the hotel management while in Portland, where they spent 
one day and two nights. 

At no time did the hotel management seem to doubt the ability of these 
young women to carry out this undertaking successfully, but the public 
and the press, as shown by the interviews of the reporters, had misgiv- 
ings as to whether college women could measure up to experienced 
hotel chefs. And there were those who wandered through the hotel 
kitchen in the afternoon to see if the chef really was not doing the 
cooking and the girls receiving the credit. These misgivings, however, 
were dispelled by those who observed and partook of the dinner, which 
was unanimously pronounced by them and the press as a most success- 
ful undertaking. "This is the best meal I have had in the hotel in the 
three years I have lived here" was one of the many interesting remarks 
overheard. 

'Barden, C. R., (Communication), Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1921, 77: 1988. 
•Faber, H. K., (Communication), Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1921, 77: 1837. 



1922] OPEN FORUM 397 

The following menu was planned by the hotel management and pre- 
pared by twelve of the senior women who had taken one or more institu- 
tional management courses in the college. 

Menu 

Ripe Olives Green Olives Salted Nuts 

Canape Multnomah 

Merry Widow Cocktail 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Tenderloin of sole, Tartar sauce 

Roast Chicken, Special Dressing 
Fresh Asparagus New Potatoes 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 
French Dressing 

O. A. C. Parfait 

Kisses Macaroons 

Coffee 

Four of these young women prepared and roasted the 90 chickens, 
cooked the fish, made the soup and the cakes, and prepared the vege- 
tables; four made the cocktails, canapes, and sauce; four, the salads, 
parfaits, and relishes. The remaining 23 of the 35 students, after ob- 
serving the hotel service during their breakfast and luncheon, were pre- 
pared to serve the dinner in the Gold Room of the hotel, which was 
beautifully decorated in orange and black, the college colors, and which 
accommodated 250 guests at one time. A]l the students were dressed 
in their simple white uniforms and low flat-heeled white shoes. Their 
simplicity as well as their efficiency made a marked impression on the 
public as evidenced by the remarks of hotel guests and the front space 
in the Portland papers, given to numerous articles and pictures of the 
students in the kitchen at work. The greater part of the morning was 
spent in posing for a movang picture concern and all of the newspaper 
photographers. 

The announcement of the plan and later the success of the undertak- 
ing appeared in the Associated Press. The unanimous opinion of the 
•students participating and the division of the college represented is that 
this experience has been most valuable and delightful, for it helped to 
demonstrate to the public that college women can put theory into prac- 



398 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

tice and that trained minds can meet and solve new problems intelli- 
gently and efficiently. 

The heartiest cooperation was received from the hotel manager, chef, 
and all of the employees. So pleased were they with the outcome of 
this experiment that they invited the School of Home Economics to 
make it an annual affair, serving luncheon in the Gold Room and dinner 
in the Arcadian Gardens, thereby increasing the number of guests served 
and enabling a larger percentage of the 90 senior home economics women 
of the college to have this invaluable experience. 

AvA B. Milam, 
Dean, School of Home Economics, 
Oregon Agricultural College 

Practice Work in Institution Courses (continued). The present 
arrangement for practical work at Cornell is as follows: 

Institution Practice. Girls are placed in every position of the service 
side to gain practical knowledge of all counter service, supply room work, 
cashing, checking; they have a week of office work. 

Cookery and Marketing. Students cook in large quantities for actual 
cafeteria use. This work is given with the intent of training future 
managers so that they may be able to step in at critical times and prepare 
food, and to give them a basis for figuring elements of fatigue and 
time as regards their employees. The marketing side of the course is 
a discussion of methods of purchase in large quantities, and of the 
forms and sizes in which we purchase. 

Institution Management. We discuss forms of organization, labor 
problems as applied to our work, planning and equipment of institutions. 

We need a course in which the girls, one or two at a time, could spend 
a few days a week with us and actually direct work and help with order- 
ing, and managing. Their other courses make this almost impossible 
at the present time. If, in time, there could be worked out a scheme of 
affiliation between schools and an exchange of students, it would be a 
good thing. 

Lois Farmer, 
Cornell University. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Nutrition and Growth in Children. By 
Weluau R. p. Emerson, M.D. New 
York: D. Appleton and Co., 1922, pp. 342 
$2.50. 

It is fitting that Dr. Emerson who is 
generally recognized as a pioneer in the 
nutritionclassmovement, should be the first 
to publish a book on this subject. This 
book will be welcomed by all who have 
attempted to follow Dr. Emerson's work 
during the last decade through his articles 
in medical journals and other publications; 
but it wiU be particularly useful to the 
pediatrist and to the nutrition specialist 
both of whom are directly concerned in the 
problems which the book presents. 

The book consists of three sections. In 
the first, Diagnosis of Malnutrition, the 
methods of identifying the malnourished 
child are described. Throughout the book 
undenveight and malnutrition are used as 
practically synonomous terms; hence stand- 
ards of height and weight are here considered, 
and the method of appljing them in the 
classification of children as malnourished, 
borderline, ideal, and overweight is de- 
scribed. It is clear from the text and from 
a chart which accompanies it, that Dr. 
Emerson identifies the malnourished child 
by the weight-height test; then determines 
the causes by three examinations which 
he terms the mental examination, the physi- 
cal-growth examination, and the social 
e.i:amination, the latter including diet, health 
habits, and all significant home and school 
conditions. Section two, Malnutrition and 
the Home, deals with the factors of home 
control, over-fatigue, exercise, measured 
feeding, diet, health habits, overweight, the 
special problems of the pre-school child; 
in addition it answers some twenty of the 
most common questions asked by parents. 
In section three, A Nutrition Program for 
a Community, Dr. Emerson's nutrition 
class method is described, and the duties 
and qualifications of the physician and 
nutrition worker are outlined, a typical 
session of one of his classes is pictured, and 



a nutrition program for a school, for an 
institution, for a children's camp, and for a 
whole community are presented. The ap- 
pendix contains standards of height and 
weight, medical examination records, and 
copies of various blanks and devices used 
in his classes. 

In short the book is a fairly detailed 
description of Dr. Emerson's work on the 
malnutrition problem, his theories, his 
methods of procedure, and the results which 
have been accomplished thereby. 

Possibly the weakest point in the book 
is the tone of finaUty which it conveys 
concerning certain problems which are con- 
sidered by good authorities as far from 
being definitely settled. Weight, for ex- 
ample, is made to appear a more accurate 
measure of nutrition than many specialists 
are walling to admit it to be. That weight 
is one measure of nutrition no one could 
doubt, but what per cent deviation is most 
applicable to the different age groups, and 
what other standards for judging it should 
be applied, are felt by many to be subjects 
for further investigation. 

Other weaknesses seem to the writer to 
Ue in the sections dealing with food. It is 
to be regretted that Dr. Emerson has put 
the emphasis so largely on calories and has 
felt it necessarj' to "offer a word of caution 
against the excessive use of fruits and vege- 
tables in the effort to supply vitamins in 
the child's diet" in the fear that these 
bulky foods will crowd out the ones of 
higher caloric value. Although Dr. Emer- 
son has "never known a case of malnutrition 
(determined by weight) that could properly 
be diagnosed as a 'lack of vitamins,' " it 
has nevertheless been demonstrated that 
serious disturbances of nutrition, not neces- 
sarily accompanied by underweight, may 
and do occur when the supply of vitamins 
is low for any considerable time. Fruits 
and vegetables, which are liberal sources 
of these vitamins as well as of important 
minerals, have been shown in extensive 
studies of children's diets to be far less 



400 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



generally used by children than is certainly 
desirable. It would seem that the word of 
caution is more needed against the danger 
of an under rather than an over use of these 
important foods. 

The impression of exactness given in the 
calorie discussions and estimates seems also 
quite misleading. Even e-^perienced dieti- 
tians can only roughly approximate the 
caloric value of a diet when actually observ- 
ing it; when, therefore, the values of diets 
are computed from lists of foods eaten at 
home, the results are obviously far from 
reliable. 

A similar criticism might justly he made 
of the air of scientific accuracy with which 
a specific cause is assigned for each small 
ri?e or fall in the weigbt line. 

That fast eating, reading in bed, sleeping 
with windows closed, playing during the 
rest period, may all contribute to loss in 
weight cannot be doubted, but the impres- 
sion that one can dogmatically assign any 
one of these as a cause in a particular case 
as definitely as a biochemist can account 
for a similar drop in the weight of his ani- 
mals should never be conveyed. Dr. Emer- 
son, of course, realizes this and we believe 
Jiis data would be in less danger of misin- 
terpretation in this regard had he made this 
distinction clear in the discussion. 

Turning to the many commendable fea- 
tures of the book — the emphasis on the 
medical aspect of nutrition work, the im- 
portance of attention to nasopharyngeal 
obstrucdons, the need for careful study of 
every individual case, the value of milk in 
the diet and the necessity of good food 
habits, and particularly the insistence 
throughout on the responsibility of the 
parents in any program of cure, will all be 
appreciated by other workers in this field. 
The description which pictures the undisci- 
plined, haphazard existence led by many 
children as "an almost unbroken series of 
dissipations" will be recognized as a correct 
one; and the pressure brought to bear on 
parents to take the matter firmly in their 
own hands will be heartily endorsed. The 
discussions of exercise, recreation, over- 
fatigue, fresh air, sleep, the care of the 



pre-school child, and other items of general 
care are also ones which might be read with 
advantage by parents and others ha\'ing to 
do with the training of children. 

Lydia Roberts, 
University of Chicago. 

Obstetrical Nursing. A text book on the 
nursing care of the expectant mother, 
the woman in labor, the young mother 
and her baby. By C.AJtOLYN Van 
Blarcom, R.N. New York: The Mac- 
millan Company, 1922, pp. 582. $3.00. 
This book, written as a text book for 
nurses, serves first the need for an adequate 
text book in obstetrical nursing. There is, 
of course, much of nursing technique that 
will be of interest only to nurses, but the 
clear, simple explanation of the normal 
development of the coming baby, his birth 
and care, and the suggestions for under- 
standing help for his mother will contribute 
much toward a realization of the need for 
adequate maternity care which must be 
understood by social and welfare workers 
as well as the general public before we can 
hope to reduce to its minimum our need- 
lessly high maternity and infant death rate. 
Social and welfare workers whose work 
brings them in contact with mothers and 
babies will find in this book an explanation 
for some of the difficulties which prove so 
puzzling in their work. 

Anne A. Stevens, 
National Organization for 
Public Health Nursing. 

Everyday Manners for American Boys and 
Girls. By the Faculty of South Phila- 
delphia High School for Girls. New 
York: The JIacmillan Company, 1922, 
pp. 115. 

This little book, we are told, grew out 
of a real need, "^^^len we began by letting 
them discuss what to do at a dance we could 
not have stopped had we wished to do so. 
.\ committee was formed and a manual of 
manners compiled. The evolution of the 
book is a logical and normal stor>' of supply 
and demand." A book that came together 
in this way, through the cooperation of 
editors and readers to meet a real situation, 



19221 



BOOKS AND LITEE,ATURE 



401 



could hardly help being a live book. Com- 
pared with it the "books of etiquette" are 
dull and formal. 

The different topics are treated under 
Home, School, and Business Manners, and 
we have such chapter headings as Ha\'ing a 
Guest, Being a Guest, Gifts, At the Tele- 
phone, In Trolley Cars, In Stores and Places 
of .-Vmusement, besides topics that every 
such book must contain, as Table Manners, 
Dress, Introductions, Entertainment. 

AH suggestions are made vdth authority 
but often with the e.^lanation of the custom. 
Some are given %\-ith a minutiae which would 
not be found in books written for older 
people, but which older people might wel- 
come. The humorous side headings keep 
the smile going, as "It is only babies that 
need spoons for all their food." "Don't 
suck your spoonful of ice cream, eat it." 
"Of course you never leave your tilings 
about." "Do you glitter like a jewelry 
counter?" 

\n excellent feature to be found at the 
end of every chapter is "Problems: ^\'ho 
vnU solve them?" 

The charming silhouette illustrations by 

Ethel C. Taylor are in keeping with the 

humor and gayety that pervade the book 

and insure that it will not lack for readers. 

Mary Hinman Abel. 

Elementary Industrial Arts. Leon Loyal 

WiNSLOW. New York: The IMacmillan 

Company, 1922, pp. 335. $1.20. 

This book in its twelve chapters discusses 

twelve industries, approaching them from 

the historical point of view, proceeding to 

present day accomplishments on a large 

scale, and pausing in detailed directions 

for actual practice on a small scale. Each 

chapter is well illustrated and ends with a 

useful bibliography. 

The book is intended for upper elementary 
grades and is of interest, not only because 
of its instruction in manipulation, but 
because of its educational method. "It 
attempts to combine the related drawing 
and art with construction and this drawing 
and construction with an industrial subject 
matter." 



The author believes that, "as regards 
elementary education, we may truthfully 
say that construction should not exist for 

mere construction's sake 

Manual work must be made valuable by 
being made significant. The manipulation 
of materials whether concerned with repre- 
sentation, with design, or with construc- 
tion, in most instances should be under- 
taken for the purpose of clarifying ideas 
regarding subject matter directly related 
to the industries." 

Practical Business Arithmetic. By Helen 

J. KiGGEN. New York: The Macmillan 

Company, 1922, pp. 404. 

While this book is primarily intended to 
meet business needs, there are many parts, 
and even whole chapters that deal with 
home economics mathematics. For exam- 
ple, the chapter on "Thrift" includes 
personal and household budgets; "Units of 
Measure" deals with dress goods, carpeting, 
water, gas, and other household utilities; 
and "ilathematics of the Trades" gives 
practical problems iumillinery, dressmaking, 
and food problems. 

As stated in the preface, "the author has 
not only endeavored to develop arith- 
metical skill, but, through the selection and 
solution of the problems given, has tried 
to instill in the minds of the pupils the 
character-making quality of individual 
responsibility in money matters, which is an 
outgrowth of the practice of thrift, and to 
show the loss resulting from waste, to the 
individual, to the community, and lo the 
nation." 

How to Get on Two Pay Rolls. By E. A. 

HuNGERFOED. Indianapolis: Bobbs- 

MerriU Co., 1921, pp. 64. $1.00. 

The subtitle, "A Manual of Personal and 
Family Finance," explains to some extent 
the means of getting on two pay rolls. 

The book has spaces for an inventory 
showing assets and liabilities, for bills 
payable and receivable, for accounts for 
one year; and in addition it contains a form 
for scoring by a point system the children's 
performance of their various tasks. 



402 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



The introduction contains a fourteen 
point financial creed and also fifty-seven 
budget suggestions, the latter, however, are 
suggestions for general thrift rather than 
budgeting. 

The book is suggestive and helpful, but 
unfortunately the space for making entries is 
so cramped that it would be difficult to 
keep it in good shape. 

Sajiah J. MacLeod. 

Quantities lo Serve 50 Persons is a set of 
mimeographed recipes compiled from the 
central kitchen of the Halls and Commons 
of the University of Wisconsin under the 
direction of Mabel C. Little. This set will 
be loaned from the Journal Office on 
receipt of 10 cents. 

Nutrition. The attention of nutrition 
workers is called to two pamphlets of the 
New York Nutrition Council — Height and 
Weight as an Index of Nutrition, prepared 
by the Committee on Statistics, and Good 
Nutrition and Adequate Food Allowances Jor 
the Family, prepared by the Committee on 
Economic Standards. These pamphlets are 
discussed in the report of the Nutrition 
Council in the news section of this issue. 
Both may be secured from the A. I. C. P., 
105 East 22nd St., New York City, at 
twenty-five cents a copy. 

The Child and the Home. Home Eco- 
nomics teachers who attended the Alumni 
conferences at Teachers College in February 
were greatly interested in an address by 
Professor Hugh Hartshome of Union Theo- 
logical Seminary on "The Child and the 
Home" in which he outlined the significance 
of the cooperative training of the child in 
simple household tasks as giving a basis for 
the socialized life of the home and also for 
the religious experience of the child in a 
family group and for wider social relation- 
ships. Professor Hartshome has developed 
these ideas in his book "Childhood and 
Character" (Pilgrim Press). In his address 
he also referred to Edith Mumford's book 
"The Dawn of Character" with its chapter 
on "The Dawn of Religious Consciousness." 



A Suggested Outline of Study, based on 
Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel's "Successful 
Family Life on the Moderate Income," has 
just been issued by J. B. Lippincott Com- 
pany, Philadelphia, and wiU be sent on 
request to teachers interested. While writ- 
ten particularly for use in extension teaching 
and other group study by adults, the ma- 
terial will prove valuable to those who are 
using Mrs. Abel's book as a text in home 
economics courses. The outline presents 
eight different subjects, including the moder- 
ate income family, and sources of family 
income. 

Merctire de France. It is a pleasure to 
find ui the literary notices of the Mercure 
de France that two practical gastronomes, 
Mm. Cumonsky and Marcel Rouff, are 
studying methodically all the old French 
provinces from the culinary point of view. 
They are also collecting local cooking recipes 
and all legends and anecdotes of choice, 
refined food and drink. 

In spite of all the troubles left by the 
war, the fine French tradition of enlightened 
cookery is maintained. Jsi. Bertrand Gue- 
gan has published two fat volumes of "The 
Flower of French Cuisine," an anthology of 
choice and master recipes and all the most 
delicate and exquisite forms of kitchen 
artistry. Moreover, in his "Almanacs of 
Cockaigne" he has let some of his collabo- 
rators, "inspired by culinary cubism," amuse 
themselves to the top of their bent and has 
reprinted little masterpieces like MaUarme's 
"Three Creole Receipts," "Orange Carp" 
from the Chinese, his own essay on "Mastica- 
tion," little works of Brillat-Savarin, chief 
of aU table-lords, and so on. With what art 
and taste the French amateurs practice 
their great profession! They are always 
gourmets, not gourmands; albeit, one thinks 
not unkindly of that great ecclesiastic, who- 
ever he was, who said that "even gluttony 
is only a proper appreciation of the benefits 
of the Creator." 

Georges Vicaire, who died the other day, 
was a distinguished bibliophile as well as 
gourmet. He was the author of a "Gastro- 
nomical BibUography." — Extract from edito- 
rial in the New York Times. 



1922] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 403 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITER.A.TURE 

Foods and Nulrition 

Lewis, J. H. and Wells, H. G. The Function of Colostrum. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 

863-865. 
Lipman, W. H. et. al. Report on the Committee on the Preparation, Packing and Transpor- 
tation of Foods. Am. J. Pub. Health, 1922, 12: 108-112. 
McCarrison, R. Effects of Faculty Foods on the Endocrine Glands. N. Y. Med. J., 1922, 

115: 309-314. 
McCarrison, R. Fats in Relation to the Genesis of Goitre. Brit. Med. J., 1922,1: 178-181. 
McCoUum, E. V., Simmonds, N., Shipley, P. G. and Park, E. A. Studies in Experimental 

Rickets. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 51 : 41-49. 
McCollum, E. \'., Simmonds, N., Shipley, P. G., and Park, E. A. Studies on Experimental 

Rickets, XV. The Effect of Starvation on the Healing of Rickets. Bull. Johns Hopkins 

Hosp., 1922,33: 31-33. 
Xeuwirth, E. K. Studies in Carbohydrate Metabolism. III. A Study of Urinary Sugar 

Excretion in Tvventy-sLx Individuals. J. Biol. Chem., 1922,51: 11-16. 
Nelson, V. E., Lamb, .\. R., and Heller, V. G. The Effect of Vitamine Deficiency in Various 

Species of Animals, II. Observations on the Comparative Vitamine A Requirement of 

Rabbits, Rats, Swine and Chickens. Am. J. Physiol., 1922, 59: 335-345. 
Palmer, G. T. Detroit's Experience with Undernourished School Children. Am. J. Pub. 

Health, 1922, 12: 134-137. 
Putnam, J. J. The Ideal Weight of Children. Arch. Ped., 1922, 39: 71-85. 
Reynolds, E. and Macomber, D. Certain Dietary Factors in the Causation of Sterility in 

Rats. Am. J. Obstei. Gynecol, 1921, 2: 379-394. 
Santos, F. O. Plant Tissues as Sources of Vitamins B and C. Am. J. Physiol., 1922, 59: 

310-334. 
Sheehy, E. J. On the Origin of Milk Fat and Its Relation to the Metabolism of Phosphorus, 

Biochem.J., 1921, 15: 703-709. 
Sherman, H. C. et al. Report of Committee on Nutritional Problems. (Dried Milks) 

Am. J. Pub. Health, 1922, 12: 113-116. 
Shiple, G. J. and Sher^vin, C. P. Synthesis of Amino Acids in Animal Organisms, I. Syn- 
theses of Gycocoll and Glutamine in the Human Organism. J. Am. Chem. Soc, 1922, 44: 

618-624. 
Southworth, T. S. A Critical Consideration of the Four Hour Feeding and Nursing Interval. 

Arch. Ped., 1922, 39: 94-98. 
Steenbock, H. and SeU, M. T. Fat Soluble Vitamine. X. Further Observations on the 

Occurrence of the Fat Soluble Vitamine \\ath Yellow Plant Pigments. /. Biol. Chem. 

1922,51: 63-76. 
Vaughan, W. T. and Van Dyke, N. H. Postoperative Dietotherapy. Am. J. Med. Sci., 1922, 

163: 273-281. 
Wright, S. A Study of the Combined Influence of Raw Cow's Milk and Orange Juice as 

Antiscorbutic Substances. Biochem.J., 1921, 15: 694-702. 
Textiles and Clothing 
Darby, W. D. Silk the Queen of Fabrics. VIII. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4052: 31, 35. 

IX. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4053: 28, 29. X. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4054: 

27, 28. XI. Dry Goods Econ., 1922, No. 4055: 25, 26. 
Davis, W. Knit Goods Defects Due to Yarns. Text. World, 1922, 61: 1671,1673,1723. 
Davis, W. The Use of Wool, Cotton, and Silk for Underwear. Posselt's Text. J., 1922, 

V. 30, No. 2: XVII, XVIIL 
Emmons, George. The Red Dyeing of Wool with Natural Dyes. Text. Colorist, 1922, 44: 

159-161. 
Hartshorne, W. D. Worsted Manufacturing Practice. Text. World, 1922, 61: 1439, 1441. 



404 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Hadfield, Thomas. Presence of Acids in Cloth. Text. World, 1922, 61: 1795,1805. 

Herzog, Alois. Telling Linen from Cotton. Textiles, 1922, V. 20, No. 4, 19, 29. 

Hoxie, F. J. Microscopy of Textiles. Text. Colorist, 1922, 44: 173, 174. 

Schofield, J. A New Scouring Process for Worsted Piece-Goods. Text. Colorist, 1922, 44: 

179-181. 
Spafford, W. A. Reeling and Sizing Raw Silk. Text. World, 1922, 61 : 1683, 1687. 

Artificial Silk. J. Soc. Dyers Colori-it, 1922, 38: 51. 

Art of Cotton Dyeing. Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 89. 

The Chemical Constituents of Raw Cotton. Dyestuff Rep., 1922, 10: 156. 

Cloth Cooling and Conditioning. Textiles, 1922, V. 20, No. 4, 13, 37. 

Constitution of Cellulose. J. Soc. Dyers Colourists, 1922,38: 18. 

Damask Weaving. Posselt's Text. J., 1922, 30: 25-26. 

Effect of Scouring and Bleaching upon Structure and Strength of Cotton Fabrics. 
J. Soc. Dyers Colourists, 1922, 38: 29. 

Electrical Picking of Cotton. Textiles, 1922, V. 20, No. 3, 12. 

Electrolytic Waterproofing of Textiles. J. Soc. Dyers Colourists, 1922, 38: 22; 
J. Franklin Institute, Oct. 1921, p. 497. 

Fastness of Dyed Colors. Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 67. 

Fastness of Dyes (A bibliography) Am. Dyestuff Rep., 1922, 10: 160. 

Fastness of Dyes (Editorial) Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 23. 

Garvin IMakes Convincing Dye Statement. Text. World, 1922, 61 : 1538, 1539. 

German Vegetable Fiber Industry. Posselt's Text. J., 1922, V. 30, No. 2: XTV.XVI. 

Giving a Good Dye a Bad Name. (Editorial) Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 126. 

The Microscope, an important industrial instrument in analysis testing and manufacture. 
Am. Dyestuff Rep., 1922, 10: 145, 184. 

Modern Methods of Batik Dyeing. Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 33. 

Modern Views on Soap. Am. Dyestuff Rep., 1922, 10: 153, 188. 

Principles of Cotton Bleaching. J. Soc. Dyers Colourists, 1922, 38: 43. 

Relative Fastness of Vat Colors. Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 107 

Romance of the Wool Trade. J. Soc. Dyers Colourists, 1922, 38: 13. 

Silk in its Relation to Dyestuffs. Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 1. 

Silk Production in California Claimed Feasible and Profitable now. Posselt's Text. 
J., 1922, V. 30, No. 2: XXIII, XXIV. 

Testing of Color Fastness. Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 92. 

Value and Balance m Color. Color Trade J., 1922, 10: 24. 

Work of Dyes Institute FuUy Explained. Text. World, 1922, 61 : 1659-1661. 

Workmg Dyestuffs Patents. Textiles, 1922, V. 20, No. 4: 9, 32. 

Miscellaneous 

Bingham, E. C. Progress in Metric Standardization. Science, 1922, "ii.S. 55: 232-233. 

Bradley,F.S. The Rural Mother and Child. Mother andChild,1921, 3: 56. 

Clark, T. S. Child Hygiene ."Vctivities of the United States PubUc Health Service. Pub. 

Health Rept., 1922, 37: 35. 
Durr.H.A. Plumbing Economies. Mod. ffosp., 1922, 18: 235-238. 
Eckman, R. S. The Dietitian as an Asset to the Hospital. Hasp. Social Service, 1922, 5: 

156, 164. 
Feldman, A. M. Ventiliating the Hospital Kitchen, Laundr>' and Laboratories. Mod. 

Hosp., 1922,18: 242,243. 
Henderson, Y. and Haggard, H. W. The Physiological Principles Governing Ventilation when 

the Air is Contaminated with Carbon Dio.xide. J. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1922, 14: 229-236. 
Hoffman, F. L. The Organization of Knowledge. Science, 1922, N. S. 55: 247-254, 

279-284. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Subscription Contest. The Jourxai. Economics in the Bureau of Education, 

wishes to express its appreciation of the con- They were intended to afford an opportunity 

test in student subscriptions that has been for free discussion of public school problems, 

conducted in the various institutions during Replies to questionnaires sent to hundreds 

the spring term, bringing in a total of 557. of home economics women evidenced that 

The figures below show the tangible results similar problems existed in all parts of the 

for all who passed the "five" mark, between country; hence all the programs included 

April 1 and July 11. It vniX be evident about the same topics. 

that these figures do not represent the true The relation of the home economics de- 
score, as some schools sent in their subscrip- part ment to the school health program; 
tions before April, and some schools sent in the place of home economics in the platoon 
100% for the senior class even though their type school; courses of study for junior 
total is far below the record for larger high schools; elective courses that will 
institutions. interest senior high school girls; improve- 

r- • T »v 1 T 1. o ment of teachers in service were some of the 

Carnegie Insbtute Tech 8 , . ,. , „, , 

„„ Tj\..T%i T K subjects discussed. The conferences were 

College Ind. .\rts, Denton, Te.xas 11 , , , . x- ,r , ^i • r^ . t^ 

„ „ -, . .^ _ held m Isew York, Lmcago, Spokane, Port- 
Cornell Umversity 7 , , ^ „ ' . \ ,' , 

T- . 1 XT 1 r, land, Oregon, ban Francisco, Los Angeles, 

r ramingham >«ormal 2 , J , , , „. U i t^ 

T J. T' • ••- T Logan and Salt Lake City, Utah, Denver, 

Indiana L mversity 7 ° ^ _. 

Iowa State CoUege 18 ^°d Kansas City, Mo. 

T- C-- . -KT 1 ,: Dinner meetings were usually held m 

Kansas State Normal 6 . ., , , t 

T ct » IT • •. o connection with the conferences. At Los 

La. State Lmversity 8 « , , , 

,f- , . \ ■ ii 1 ,-. II It Angeles, 164 home economics women sat 

Michigan Agricultural College 12 ° . 

■.,-,■ o. . XT 1 II down together. Miss Bevier was the chief 

Michigan State Normal 11 , . ,. . , 

N T St tp N 1 R speaker at this dinner. Representative home 

XT <-• /-^ 11 c ij' n economics women came from 33 different 

N. C. College for Women 9 

Ohio State CoUege 32 ^*^**^- 

Ore. Agr. College 29 ^, 

Philadelphia Normal 13 Special Lectures for Parents. The 

Rhode Island State CoUege 14 Pennsylvania School for Social Service in 

Simmons CoUege, Boston 22 cooperation with the Conference on Parent- 

c, T> ■ » M 1 ^n hood has been conducting a series of lecture- 
Stevens Pomt Normal 20 . , , , ., , , 

c. ^ T j.^ . o studies on the Bases of Child Development 

TeTche^College.N'. Y.' C.'. '. '. '. '. '.'.".".'.'. II ^^ ^^^ foUowing authorities: Dr. Frank D. 

University of California 39 Watson, Professor of Sociology, Haverford 

University of Chicago 6 C""^^^' ^'- ^'^^^'^ ^- ^°^'' ^"^^^''l "^ 

University of Illinois 25 *-^^ American ChUd Hygiene Association; 

University of Minnesota 34 ^'- Leonard Blumgart, Psychiatnst, New 

University of Texas 9 York City; Dr. Joseph K. Hart, Director, 

Umversity of Wisconsin 23 The Pennsylvania School; Dr. John Haynes 

„ „ . „ . „ Holmes, Pastor, The Community Church, 

Home Economics Conferences. Dr. Ti- ^^ ,. , „. ,, . „ . ,,, . 

^ „ . . f TT , • ,1 , New \ork City; Mrs. Amey Eaton Watson, 

gert, Commissioner of Education, called 

ten conferences of public school teachers and ■»<='"ber of faculty m charge of the course. 

supervisors of home economics during the '^^ Semmar in Child Trainmg, a series of 

spring months. '^n lecture-studies, under the direction of 

The programs of these meetings were in Dr. Leonard Blumgart, was also held at the 

charge of Mrs. Calvin, SpeciaUst in Home school. 

405 



406 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



A National Merchandise Fair is to be 

held in August by the National Retail Dry 
Goods Association. The Merchandise Fair, 
although centuries old in Europe, is new to 
the United States. The Great Merchandise 
Fairs of Leipsig, Prague, Nijni Novgorod 
and other centers offer the inspiration for 
those practical economies which American 
business is seeking. As many lines of 
merchandise as ordinarily are bought by 
the retail trade in mid-summer will be 
exhibited. The object will be to assemble 
related lines for the convenience of buyers. 
The Fair promises a means of reducing 
selling costs to manufacturers and whole- 
salers and buying costs to retailers. It is 
the plan of the Association to hold a series of 
meetings during the time of the Fair in 
which business problems having to do 
with merchandise and merchandise methods 
will be discussed. 



Bradley Institute. The Home Economics 
Department has taken an active interest in 
the National Better Health Program. The 
Sophomore class in dietetics under the super- 
vision of Leata Jones, Instructor in Foods 
and Nutrition, have been keeping personal 
health records. Many have improved in 
general health. Miss Jones plans to intro- 
duce this health work in the Freshman 
food classes next year. 

Miss Jansen, instructor in the Training 
School for Nurses at the Proctor Hospital, 
has given lecture demonstrations on home 
care of the sick, prenatal and infant care, 
and first aid. These demonstrations have 
supplemented the course in home nursing. 

Alma Long, Head of the Household Arts 
Department, presented an artistic and in- 
structive exhibit of historic interest for the 
annual Open Night, on the twenty-fifth 
anniversary of Bradley Institute. A bridal 
outfit made one hundred and fifty years 
aco, an unusual quilted dress, hoops of the 
Civil War days, pointed waists and the 
full skirts of 1810, Paisley spawl, applique 
quilts, powder liorns, artistic old fans, 
beautiful silk mits, and old parasols were 



equally interesting. Students dressed in a 
costume of by-gone days sewed at an old 
Wheeler and Wilson machine, and ran spin- 
ning wheels. A little girl dressed in an old 
fashioned gown carried a china doU from the 
play house of 1790. 

The Children's and Girls' Fashion Shows, 
staged the same evening, offered a com- 
parison in costumes of the modern day. 

The class in Home Management under 
the supen,'ision of Geraldine Hadley, Dean 
of Home Economics, has been formulating 
a household account book. Groups of stu- 
dents and two instructors have composed a 
family group in the practice house. The 
cost of food as purchased per person per 
meal has averaged twenty-two cents. 

The members of this class have also 
kept personal expense accounts. This has 
stimulated an interest in budgeting. Many 
of the students in this class will teach the 
coming year and it is hoped that this project 
will lead to actual practice in following a 
definite plan for expenditure. 



The Michigan Home Economics Asso- 
ciation is issuing a news letter to "offer 
opportunity for exchanging ideas and for 
sending out information to members which 
will stimulate professional interest and fel- 
lowship and promote standards of home 
economics education in Michigan. The first 
number contains news items, reports of 
meetings, and an outline of the points 
brought out in a discussion of the weaknesses 
of high school preparation of students as 
revealed in the first year of college work. 

The executive committee of the asso- 
ciation has reconmiended that undergradu- 
ate associations be developed and that they 
be urged to affiliate with the state organi- 
zation with the annual pa>Tnent of $1.00 
for every 25 members. 

Detroit Program Against Malnutrition. 
Detroit has adopted the plan of selecting as 
malnourished the children who are IS percent 
underweight. All public school children 
and many from private schools have been 
weighed and measured. The medical in- 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



407 



spectors of the Health Department are now 
giving a physical examination to this entire 
group which represents about 10,000 chil- 
dren. Those who have no impairing 
physical defects will be invited to join nutri- 
tion classes, under the direction of a trained 
nutrition worker. The school nurses have 
all had a special course in nutrition and the 
nurses who carry on the class work with the 
children meet the nutrition worker for 
special instruction. 

Those with defects will not be eligible until 
corrections have been made. By impairing 
defects are meant severe defects which could 
hinder metabolism. Siq items are recognized 
in this group: a moderately or markedly 
enlarged thyroid, vision below a 20/30, pus 
discharge from the ears, unmistakable 
evidence of mouth breathing, a small size 
infected tonsil or an uninfected tonsil that 
reaches half way across the median line of 
the throat, and abscessed teeth. 

Each nutrition class will meet with a nurse 
once a week for instruction in diet and hy- 
giene. Every other week the children will 
be weighed and the weights plotted on charts. 
Parents will be expected to attend the weekly 
meetings. A parent must pledge coopera- 
tion before the child is admitted to the class. 
Twice daily the nutrition class children will 
assemble for a lunch of a half pint of milk 
and two graham crackers. Home diets will 
be surveyed and advice given. Through a 
grant of 820,000 by the City Council, it is 
hoped there will be established at least 
70 classes of about 20 children each. 

In addition to this supplementary feeding 
program there are a number of voluntary 
agencies in the city which have been dis- 
tributing milk to all children in certain 
schools. The Health Department program 
will not conflict with this work. The 
Department will form nutrition classes, but 
will not serve milk, inasmuch as the children 
already receive milk from other sources. 

To harmonize the work of the various 
agencies engaged in feeding, and to avoid 
duplication of effort, the Health Com- 
missioner has appointed a Central Com- 
mittee on Nutrition on which are represented 
all public and private school lunch agencies 
and other groups interested in nutrition. 



This program has come about as the result 
of a study of the state of nutrition of 94,000 
school children in the Detroit Public Schools. 
An excellent survey of this work was pre- 
sented to the Home Economics Section, 
Michigan State Teachers Association, by 
Dr. George T. Palmer, Epidemiologist, 
Detroit Department of Health. 

NEW MEXICO 

Contest for Girl? in Vocational Home 
Economics. At the final meeting of the 
Dona Ana County Teachers' .Association, 
the vocational home economics students, 
under the direction of Mrs. Elizabeth Kogen, 
presented an exhibit and contest. 

The Fir^t National Bank of Las Cruces 
and eleven other firms offered prizes for a 
home economics contest. The 75 girls in 
the contest were selected from 300 taking 
the work in 13 schools in the county. A 
majority of the contestants were of Spanish- 
American or Indian origin, ranging in age 
from 10 to 19 years. 

The girls appeared at the Las Cruces High 
School, atdred in the dresses they had made. 
The dresses were judged according to the 
rules of the contest, five points being con- 
sidered: (1) perfection of stitch, (2) neatness 
of finish, (3) suitability, (4') beauty of grace 
and design, (5) harmony of color and design. 

At noon the contestants were guests at a 
picnic lunch prepared by the home eco- 
nomics department of the Las Cruces High 
School. The awarding of prizes took place 
in connecrion with the session of the County 
Teachers' .Association. 

On account of the hard tunes and high 
taxes, it had been suggested that the voca- 
tional work in the count>' be discontinued. 
Following the exhibit, which was attended 
by the County Federation of Women's 
Clubs in a body, a resolution was passed by 
that organization that a work so invaluable 
should continue. The Dona Ana County 
Teachers' Association passed the following 
resultion: "Be it resolved that, ha\-ing seen 
the benefits and results of vocational edu- 
carion as conducted in this county, we 
heartilv endorse this branch of education." 



408 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



NEW YORK 

The New York Nutrition Council. At the 
annual meeting of the New York Nutrition 
Council, held at the Russell Sage Founda- 
tion Building, May 18, the reports of the 
Committees on Statistics and Economic 
Standards were presented. 

The Committee on Statistics had made a 
careful investigation of the work which 
has been done on height and weight as an 
index to nutrition. The report of this com- 
mittee brings up the following questions: 
What is the normal weight? WTiat is the 
relation of weight to height? To what 
extent are these an indication of proper 
nutrition? These questions, with careful 
analysis and deductions, are discussed in 
the report. It contains suggestions which 
will cause the average nutrition worker to 
think more deeply before arriving at final 
conclusions. Authorities are quoted and 
imperfections in conclusions are stated. 
This pamphlet has been printed and may be 
secured from the A. I. C. P., 105 East 
Twenty-second St., New York City, at 
25 cents a copy. 

The Committee on Economic Standards, 
recognizing the difficulties of various agen- 
cies in arranging satisfactory food budgets, 
has prepared a plan whereby any social 
worker may work out a satisfactory budget 
for a child of any age. Further, it has 
prepared fifteen points in nutrition for the 
social sendee worker. These two reports 
combined in one leaflet have been published 
and may be secured from the A. I. C. P. 
at 25 cents. 

At one meeting of the Council, Dr. Charles 
Hendee Smith, Chairman of the Medical 
Committee, presented a program which 
brought up to date the latest material on 
medical aspects of nutrition. The program 
of the meeting presenting the dental aspects 
of nutrition was arranged by the Dental 
Committee, Dr. T. P. Hyatt, Chairman. 
The Current Events Committee has kept 
the Council posted on current projects in 
nutrition, as well as additions to the litera- 
ture on nutrition. One meeting, arranged 
by the Council in cooperation with the 
American Relief Administration, The New 



York Chapter of the American Red Cross, 
and the Pediatric Section of the Academy 
of Medicine, was addressed by Dr. Clemens 
Pirquet of Vienna. Other out-of-town 
speakers have been Dr. E. V. McCollum 
of Baltimore, Dr. Katharine Blunt of 
Chicago, Cornelia Lyne, representing the 
National Child Health Council, and Flora 
Rose of Cornell University. 

The membership of the Council includes 
phv'sicians, educators, dentists, nurses, nu- 
trition workers, social service workers, and 
representatives of organizations which are 
carrying on nutrition as a part of their 
programs. 

The officers for the coming year are: 
Chairman, George R. Bedinger, New York 
County Chapter, A. R. C; Secretary, Jean 
Lee Hunt, Bureau of Educational Experi- 
ments; Chairman of Program Committee, 
Lucy H. Gillett, A. I. C. P.; Treasurer, Dr. 
M. Alice Asserson, New York Tuberculosis 
Association. 

The College of Home Economics, Syracuse 
University, opened in the fall of 1918 with 
63 students; at the opening of the present 
school year there were 317 students enrolled. 
The College was established by Dean 
Florence Knapp with the conviction that 
one result of women's part in the war had 
been to make scientific homemaking manda- 
tory for all generations. It has outgrown 
its quarters in the Joseph Slocum College 
of .Agriculture and the trustees acknowledge 
that one of the pressing needs of the Univer- 
sity today is a building for home eco- 
nomics. In a cafeteria, carried on under 
the direction of two students, a noonday 
meal, consisting of four courses, is prepared 
and served at cost by the students. The 
most recent development of the work is 
the organization of classes in nutrition 
directed by the medical staff of the College 
of Medicine in coordination with the home 
economics faculty. Women regularly en- 
rolled in any of the colleges of the Uni- 
versity may elect special work in home 
economics as a part of their chosen course, 
and regular home economics students have 
the option of specializing in different groups 
during the junior and senior years. 



19221 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



409 



The Food Class of the Lincoln Junior 
High School, VoungstowTi, under the direc- 
tion of Bertina A. Leete, solved the 
problem in that school of running the 
lunch room with the products of the cooking 
classes. 

Three classes meet each day for two 
periods of forty minutes each. The work 
is so planned that each group of two girls, 
or each individual girl, as the case may be, 
prepares a dish of family-size portions, and 
when all are combined, there is enough to 
serve those who patronize the cafeteria. 
In the household arts class the work is 
necessarily lacking in uniformity each day, 
but during the semester each girl takes her 
turn at serving at the counter, preparing 
salads and soups, and making coffee or 
cocoa. The teacher plans the menus for a 
week or two in advance, buving accordingly. 
Wholesalers are glad to sell to the cafeteria, 
and a local grocer supplies the lesser needs. 

The Commercial Department is an ally of 
the cafeteria, and its students take entire 
charge of the business side, checking, cash- 
iering, bookkeeping, banking, and writing 
checks. Other departments also cooperate. 
As a result the cafeteria has stenciled designs 
appUqued on the curtain draperies, oilcloth 
centerpieces on the tables, wicker bud 
vases for flowers, artistic price tags in 
wire holders made by the sheet metal 
workers, many posters, and a menu board 
changed daily by one of the art students. 

The aim is to sell for cost, plus overhead, 
the latter including free meals to the girls 
who work in the cafeteria, and the pay of 
two dishwashers The lack of efficient 
working conditions, and the inexperience 
of the workers make the overhead large 
for the number served. 

There is sufficient repetition so that pupils 
become familiar with general and particular 
processes, nnd they work in quantity suitable 
for a family. There is a high standard for 
the finished product. As each takes her 
turn serving at the counter, a definite 
increase in responsibility and initiative hks 
been noticed. 



PENKSYLV.\NIA 

At a meeting of the Home Economics 
Section of the Central Arts Association of 
Pennsylvania held in the Technical High 
School, Harrisburg, Mr. James M. Glass, of 
the State Department of Public Instruction, 
spoke on the subject, The Organization of 
the Curriculum for the Junior High School. 
Defining the terms "Program of Studies," 
"Curriculum and Course of Studies," he 
applied them practically to the junior high 
school, the school which must bridge the 
gulf between the elementary and secondary 
schools. 

A general discussion upon questions perti- 
nent to teachers of home economics followed. 
Mr. Taylor, also of the State Department of 
Public Instruction, brought out twelve es- 
sential qualifications for the successful 
teacher. 

At the Home Economics Section of 
Schoolmen's Week, Helen Dodge challenged 
the workers of the state in her talk, "Fitting 
the Home Economics Course to the Needs 
of the Girl." She urged the need for greater 
knowledge of home conditions in order that 
teachers may plan their courses in accord- 
ance with the actual needs of the home. 
The association voted to start a state-wide 
survey of home conditions. A nucleus 
committee of Philadelphia women was 
appointed to direct and organize the survey. 
To this wiU be added two other members 
chosen from the state at large. The work 
is under way at the present time and some 
usable material should soon be in hand. 

The Domestic Arts Section of the Phil- 
adelphia Home Economics Association 
was addressed on April 26 by Professor 
Hosic, of Columbia University, on "The 
Project Method in Domestic Arts Educa- 
tion." 

SOUTH C.4R0LINA 

The South Carolina Home Economics 
Association held its annual meeting at 
Columbia. Miss Swygert of Chicora Col- 
lege, speaking on The Relation of the Home- 
maker to the Community, said the home- 
maker has a great responsibility in merely 



410 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



making the right kind of citizens of her 
own children. Beatrice Perry, in charge of 
the cafeteria at Winthrop College, took up 
the different phases of work— school lunch, 
cafeteria, tea room, hotels, and hospitals. 
Florence Ward of the Extension Office, 
Washington, D. C. outlined A Uniform 
Home Economics Program. Helen Louise 
Johnson of New York City dis ussed the 
three fold application of eSciency, physical, 
intellectual, and spiritual, as concerns home 
economics in the public school. Edith 
Thomas, regional director for the Southern 
states in the American Home Economics 
Association, told of the work being done in 
North Carolina and of the organization of 
the Southern Region. After her discussion 
of the re-organization of the American 
Association the South Carolina Association 
decided to affiliate. C ristine South was 
appointed representative councUor, and 
Sarah Gilhnan president. 



The Domestic Art Students of Sul Ross 
State Normal College, Alpine, under the 
direction of Grace Eedell. Head of the Home 
Economics Department, gave a style show 
in the auditorium. May 16. The Parade of 
Costumes was cleverly introduced by a 
p'aylet showing a girl's need of training in 
the' selection and designing of clothes. 
About seventy beautiful costumes— simple 
ginghams and tissues, fluffy organdies, 
Hollin suits, sport suits, and silk and wool 
dresses-were efTecti\-ely displayed by the 
young promenaders who strolled and skipped 
and pirouetted across the stage to the strains 
of the violin. As each model appeared, the-e 
were flashed on the screen at the right the 
name of the designer, the cost of material, 
and the approximate cost of the garment 
if purchased ready-made. Many of the 
dresses cost only a half or a third of the 
prices charged by ready-to-wear houses. 
The auditorium was filled to its capacity, 
and the spectators evidenced hearty appre- 
ciation for the originality, neatness, and 
beauty achieved by the sixteen young 
designers. 



The Utah Home Economics Association 
held a special business meeting in Salt 
Lake City May 13. for the purpose of 
adopting a new Constitution and taking care 
of other business which would enable the 
Utah Association to affiliate with the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association. They 
voted to send a delegate to the National 
Convention in Oregon. The Utoh Asso- 
ciation has 76 members. 

Teacher Training. Gene\-ieve Fisher, of 
the Federal Board for Vocational Education, 
recentlv visited the Utoh Agricultural Col- 
lege in the interest of home economics 
teacher training work. She discussed home 
economics problems with the staff and the 
teacher training class. Her vi.-it was shared 
with the Logan High School home economics 
stud nts with whom the college apprentice 
teaching is done. The high school foods 
class regarded it a special privilege to pre- 
pare and ser^■e. in their dining room, a 
luncheon in honor of Miss Fi>her. 

Home Economics Conferences. Utah's 
Home Economics workers found much mi- 
mediate pleasure and permanent profit in 
the two davs of conferences, April 28 and 
29, under the leadership of Mrs. Henrietta 
Calvin, from the Federal Bureau of Edu- 
cation. In both meetings, one in the Home 
Economics Building of the Utah Agricultural 
College, the other in Salt Lake City, the 
substance and the spirit of home economics 
were subjects of lively discussion. Infor- 
mation as to home economics work, which 
Mrs. Cah-in brought from other sections, 
gave Utah teachers a basis for helpful com- 
parison and analysis of work in this stote. 
Through the conferences Mrs. Calvin gave a 
bigger view of home economics than it is 
po^ssible to get without such contacts. 

The Fourth Annual Junior Extension 
Conference was held April 24-29 at the 
Utah Agricultural College, for the purpose 
of training local leaders in conducting boys 
and giris club work in the counties and com- 
munities of the state. Before they were 
eUgible to attend the school they were 



1922 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



411 



required to have their club members selected, 
clubs organized, and projects chosen, and 
to pledge themselves to carry the project 
to its completion. 

Every morning from 6:45 to 8:30 a 
daily setting up program was conducted. 
The leaders then went to their several 
departments for intensive instruction in the 
subject matter pertaining to the projects. 
In addition, a demonstration team was 
trained in each department, grain and 
stock judging contests were held, and proj- 
ect outlines were critiri7^d. 

.•\fternoon sessions were devoted to 
discussion of work common to all clubs. 
Club meetings, demonstrations, tours, and 
exhibits were planned and criticized by the 
group. Demonstrations were given in clean- 
ing and pressing clothing, preserving eggs, 
treatment of seed potatoes, and other 
kinds of practical work. 

Various social events were given in honor 
of the leaders. Feature motion picture 
reels and reels pertaining directly to club 
work were shown on the campus. The 
leaders were taught numerous games and 
were then required to demonstrate their 
ability to teach them to others. At a camp 
fire party they played games, sang club 
songs, and toasted marshmallows while one 
of the Enghsh professors told camp fire 
stories. 

The program for the week was so planned 
that every event gave something that 
will help in putting over work for the year. 

WASHINGTON 

State College of Washington. Leila May 
DeMers of Eureka, Montana, has just been 
elected president of the Ellen H. Richards 
Club, composed of home economics students 
of the State College of Washington. Olive 
Hatfield, Tacoma, is vice-pre-idsnt; Myrtle 
Johnson, Wenatclee, secretary; Jean Mac- 
Gregor, Hooper, treasurer; and Grace Scrog- 
gin, Spokane, reporter. 

The University of Washington. Over 
200 guests from the Parent-Teacher Asso- 
ciation attended the Spring Fashion Show. 
They vi-ited the Home Economics building 
and the Practice Cottage, had lunch at the 



Commons, and attended the Fashion Show 
which was managed by a committee of home 
economics girls. Clothing budgets for the 
college girl were diitributed at this time. 
These budgets are used by the Dean of 
Women throughout the year in writing to 
mothers whose daug' ters are planning to 
enter college and who want to know how 
much their clothing is likely to cost. A 
copy of the budget is on file in the Journal 
Office and will be loaned on receipt of ten 
cents. 

At the Annual Open House of Fine Arts 
and Architecture, May 19 and 20, a con- 
ference for high school girls was held on 
the campus. 

WISCONSIN 

The University of Wisconsin. The annual 
art exhibit of the Home Economics Depart- 
ment was displayed in the State Historical 
Museum. The exhibit included dolls in 
historic costume and examples of art weaving 
in table runners, pillow covers, tray cloths, 
hand-bags and rugs, block printing, tie and 
dye work, and batik. 

Each student in the advanced clothing 
class in the University is making a garment 
for some child recommended by the Public 
Welfare. The student visited the home, 
became acquainted with the mother and 
family, measured the child, purchased the 
material, and will give the garment to the 
child. Old material which the student 
may have is used instead of new if the 
instructor approves. 

During the interim between semesters the 
Practice Cottage housed two guests, a three 
and a half months old baby and her mother. 
The baby had been placed under the care of 
Dr. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall. Although 
the baby was in a serious condition, her only 
need was proper feeding and the regulation 
of her daily schedule. These were provided 
at the Practice Cottage, and the mother was 
trained in preparing the formula. Improve- 
ment began at once and continued after the 
baby returned to her home. 

The theoretical study of the nutritional 
needs of children as given in the course in 
nutrition and dietetics is founded upon 



412 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



intensive studies of the food habits and food 
consumption of individual children, by the 
students of this course. Subjects for this 
study are found among children in the 
families of different members of the class 
and of the University faculty. All the food 
eaten by the child for a three day interval 
is carefully weighed or measured and its 
food value calculated; food prejudices and 
differences in food habits are noted. By 
this method the student obtains a realiza- 
tion of the scope of the problems involved 
in the feeding of children as well as the 
possibility of their solution. 

Popularizing Home EcoDomics in the 
Madison High Schools. To interest girls 
in their education beyond the elementary 
school, and to acquaint them with the home 
economics work in the high school, the fol- 
lowing plan was carried out. 

The eighth grade home economics classes 
in the city were invited by the high school 
home economics girls to visit their classes. 
The eighth j'ear girls came to the "party" 
during their regular class periods. The 
classroom teacher and the principal of the 
school were guests also. The high school 
girls acting as hostesses escorted the visitors 
in small groups though the kitchens, sewing 
rooms, laundry, cafeteria, and art rooms 
where work was displayed. In the large 
living-dining room of the model apartment 
the guests were comfortably seated while 
refreshments were ser\'ed by their hostesses. 
The principal of the high school joined them 
and discussed their plans for high school 
and the courses offered. 



Isabel Bevier has been elected Professor 
Emeritus by the Board of Trustees of the 
University of Illinois. This is the first 
occasion on which a professor of home eco- 
nomics has been so recognized. 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin has been honored 
by the presentation of the degree, Doctor of 
Pedagogy, by Temple University, Phila- 
delphia. 

Ola Powell, of the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, has returned to France 
to carry on food preservation work under the 
direction of the French Ministry of Agri- 



culture. The work is similar to that done in 
connection with the extension work of the 
Department of Agriculture and the State 
agricultural colleges in this country. 

The United States Civil Service Com- 
mission announces open competitive exami- 
nations for positions in the Indian Service, 
August 9, September 20, and November 8. 
.^t present there are about fifty vacancies 
in the positions of matron, assistant matron, 
seamstress, housekeeper, field matron, in- 
dustrial teacher. For further information 
address the United States Civil Service 
Commission, Washington, D. C. 

Dr. Ethel M. Watters, Director of the 
Bureau of Child Hygiene in California and 
a well-known pediatrician, has been ap- 
pointed consultant in the administration of 
the Sheppard-Towner Maternity Act under 
the Federal Children's Bureau. This Bureau 
will administer, in cooperation with the 
States, the federal funds ap;iropriated for 
promoting the welfare and hygiene of ma- 
ternity and infancy. All but sb: states have 
accepted the provisions of the act. 

Course for Student Dietitians. The 
Presbyterian Hospital, New York City, is 
offering a course to student dietitians in its 
newly organized Department of Nutrition. 
Tie work rovers the various phases of ap- 
plied metabolic and specialized dietetics, as 
the preparation, calculation, charting, and 
supervision of special diets issued to the 
general, metabolism, and private wards. 
Filling baby formulae, visiting patients in 
reference to diet, explanation of cases by 
physicians, group meetings, and discussions 
are included. Preference is given to grad- 
uates of four-year courses in home econo- 
mics, as the metabolic work requires a sound 
background of science. 

Positions in the United States are de- 
sired by two teaclers in Australia who 
hold certificates from the University of 
Adelaide and have had two years' training 
in home economics. Tl ey wish to take 
further training while teaching here. Any 
one who can suggest such positions would 
render an appreciated service by writing to 
Miss Edith Devitt, Supervisor of Domestic 
Art, Education Department, Adelaide, South 
Australia. 



Vol. XIV, No. 9 September, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Aranagement, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mary de Garuo Brvax, Editor Ketorah E, Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Amy Daniels Katharine Fisher Grace G. Denny 

Editor of "The Question Box," Amy Daniels 

Associate Editors 

Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mildred Weigley, Social Welfare and the Home 
Florence Ward, Extension 

Katharine Blunt and Sybil Woodrutt, Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell and Emma Conley, Education. 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Mabel Little, Institution Economics 
Alice Biester, Bibliography 

C#Ba^<wa^f.-— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Caicium Reqtjieements or Children IJ. C. Sherman and Etfitit Ba^dey 413 

HouE Problem; for Household Management Classes Bess Naylor Rosa 416 

Motion Study ANT) CosriNC IN itousEHOLD AND Home Organization J. C. Smail 41S 

The Evolution OF A ^rrRinoN Class Program Gertrude Gates Mudge 421 

Artificial Silk ... Lois M. Rath 425 

A Clothing Project. . . Beulah Blachnore 430 

Choosing a Life Work . . Mary Schenck Woolman 432 

Market Myths Caroline B. Slierman 435 

Housekeeping on a Farm in North.'j;rn Spain 437 

Editorial 440 

Open Forum 446 

Books and Literature 451 

News from the Field 457 



The Journal op Home EcoNomcs is published monthly bythe Americafi Home Economics Association. 
$2.50 A. YEAR. FOREIGN S2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT, Remittances should be sent by New York Draft. Check. Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS, Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
* the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathede.\l St., Baltimoke, Md. 

Tbe JotraNAL OT Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago; Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore ; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 



The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 

ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 




/►'^^ 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV SEPTEMBER, 1922 No. 9 

CALCIUM REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDREN* 

H. C. SHER1VL4.N AND EDITH HAWLEY 

Extensive study (1) has showii that the calcium requirement of man 
for the maintenance of normal equilibrium is 0.45 gram per day per 70 
kilograms of body weight, and dietary studies of typical American fami- 
lies have brought out the fact that the actual calcium content of the diet 
frequently falls below this requirement (1, 2). But it is hardly satis- 
factory to try to calculate children's needs from those of the adult, 
because the quantitative relation between the needs of growth and main- 
tenance have not been worked out. After reviewing the literature it 
seemed necessary to have more data on calcium metabolism during 
childhood. 

This paper deals briefly with four series of experiments on the calcium 
metabolism of twenty-one healthy, normal children from three to thir- 
teen years of age, the full account of which has been published elsewhere 
(3). The purpose of the first series of experiments was to determine how 
much calcium is stored daily in the bodies of the normally growing chil- 
dren of different ages. Balance studies of the calcium and phosphorus 
intake and outgo were made on twelve children in groups of four for nine 
days each. The children were kept under the constant supervision of 
one of the writers (E. H.). This series was divided into three-day pe- 
riods for the collection and analysis of material. The children received 
milk as a chief source of calcium in approximately the same amount as 
they were accustomed to in their own homes. For ten of the children this 
amounted to a pint and a half, the other two receiving about a pint 
daily. In addition to milk the diet consisted of bread, butter, orange 
juice, oat meal or macaroni, potato, apple, and meat. The quantity of 
milk in the diet was fixed ; the other foods were in general ad libllum, 
but the quantities eaten were accurately determined in each case. 

*Based on experiments carried out under the joint auspices of the Department of Social 
Welfare of the New York Association for Improving the Condidon of the Poor, and the Depart- 
ment of Chemistry of Columbia University. The investigation was made possible by a grant 
from the research fund established by Mrs. Elizabeth Milbank .Anderson. 

413 



414 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Results of this study showed that on diets furnishing approximately 
the same amount of calcium, about 1 gram daUy, children stored from 
0.15 to 0.62 gram of calcium depending chiefly upon the size of the child. 
When the storage is expressed in terms of body weight, there was fair 
uniformity, averaging 0.01 gram calcium stored per kilogram of body 
weight per day. Phosphorus balances were more variable, being in- 
fluenced not only by size but also by intake. Phosphorus storage aver- 
aged 0.008 gram per kilogram of body weight per day. 

After we had thus found the rate at which children on such a diet 
stored calcium, the second series of experiments was undertaken. It 
was an intensive study on three children, four, five, and twelve years old, 
to determine on what amount of calcium they made optimum storage. 
It consisted of eight continuous experiments of six days each. The 
calcium intake was varied from period to period by systematic changes 
in the amount of milk in the diet from one half of a pint to a quart and a 
half. The diet also included bread, butter, orange juice, oat meal, 
macaroni or potato, apple sauce, corn flakes or prunes. It was found in 
these experiments that considerably more calcium was stored by the 
children on a quart of milk daily than was stored in the first series on one 
and one half pints. When they received less than one and one half 
pints of milk, calcium storage fell below the average figure found in the 
first series of experiments, 0.01 gram per kilogram per day. There was 
little, if any, greater storage when a quart and a half was given than on 
one quart. It seems clear that optimum storage was made on an allow- 
ance of one quart of milk per child per day, and that this is the amount 
which should normally be recommended. 

The third and fourth series of experiments were planned to ascertain 
whether children utilize the calcium of vegetables as well as that of milk. 
The plan of the two series differed somewhat. The third series consisted 
of twenty-seven consecutive days divided into three experiments of nine 
days each. During experiments one and three, the children received, in 
addition to the simple diet used in this study, one pint of milk as the 
main source of calcium. During experiment two, enough carrots and 
spinach were added to this diet to increase the total calcium content to 
that of a diet containing one quart of milk, or the amount found in the 
second series of experiments to support optimum calcium storage. On 
such a change of calcium intake the children (five, six, and twelve years 
of age) should have stored considerably more calcium if the calcium of the 
extra vegetables were as well used as was that of the extra milk in the 
second series of experiments. This was not the case. 



1922] CALCIUM REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDREN 415 

In the fourth series of experiments the plan was to keep the calcium 
intake the same throughout the thirty days. A diet of bread, butter, 
orange Juice, oat meal, potatoes, and apple was used. During the first 
experiment the children received, in addition, one and one-half pints of 
milk. The milk intake in the second experiment was reduced one-half, 
and enough carrots, spinach, and celery were added to make the total 
calcium intake equal to that in the diet containing one and one-half 
pints of milk. Three children, six, ten, and thirteen years of age served 
in this series. The results were similar to those found in the third series 
of experiments. On the milk diet the children stored approximately the 
same that they stored in the first series of experiments on such a diet, 
viz., 0.01 gram per kilogram per day. When the vegetables were sub- 
stituted for half the milk the calcium storage fell to about half that 
amount. 

Phosphorus storage was more variable in these two series of experi- 
ments than was that of calcium. In some cases almost as much phos- 
phorus was stored on the vegetable diet as on the milk diet, but in others 
there was a negative balance during the vegetable diet. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Healthy growing children on ordinarily good diet were fo\ind to store 
daily about 0.01 gram of calcium per kilogram of body weight. 

WTien the amount of milk in the diet was increased to one quart per 
day for each child the storage of calcium was materially improved. 

Carefully controlled experiments, with diets containing systematically 
varied amounts of milk, lead to the conclusion that one quart of milk per 
child per day is the amount required for optimum storage of calcium, 
and presumably, therefore, for optimum development of bones and 
teeth. 

A quart of milk with a normal allowance of other foods will usually 
mean a daily intake of at least one gram of calciiun for the growing chUd, 
which is more than the usual dietary standard for an adult. Hence in 
planning the dietaries of families containing children it seems advisable 
to allow a more liberal calcium content than has heretofore seemed 
necessary. 

Repeated experiments under varied conditions indicate that children 
do not utilize the calcium of vegetables as efficiently as they do that of 
milk. The importance of vegetables in the diet of children is not ques- 
tioned, but the vegetables should be used in addition to a Liberal allowance 



416 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

of milk and should not be allowed to reduce the amount of milk 
consumed. 

The investigation as a whole emphasizes the conclusion that, how- 
ever good the dietary in other respects, each child should receive a quart 
of milk in some form every day; and that this standard of milk con- 
sumption should be maintained at least up to the age of fourteen years. 

REFERENCES 

1. Sherman, H. C. Jour. Biol. Chem., 1920, xliv: 21. 

2. Sherman, H. C. and Gillett, L. H. A Study of the Adequacy and Economy of Some 

City Dietaries, published by the A. I. C. P. 

3. Sherman, H. C. and Hawxey, E. Joiit. Biol. Chem. for August, 1922. 



HOME PROBLEMS FOR HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT 
CLASSES^ 

BESS NAYLOR ROSA 

Household Management, University of Missouri 

In presenting training in household management to the high school 
girl, the real household for practice in management is the girl's own home. 
In most cases she is living at home and the parents wish to have her re- 
main there under their observation. Her position in the home is that 
of household helper rather than director. If we can enlist the help of the 
mother who has faced the problem of managing that hom.e, and then 
show the girl her relation to its management as a member of the house- 
hold group, we keep her in her natural setting in the home. In suggest- 
ing the problems for study at home, the aim has been to begin with the 
study of the girl's individual problems, to establish her relation to the 
problems of the family as a group, and then to come back to the girl as 
an individual in the group. It is not expected that any one set of prob- 
lems would fit all high school girls. However, the following series of 
problems is given as suggestive for developing the practice in home man- 
agement at home: 

' Extracts from an address presented at the Fifteenth Annual Convention of The National 
Society for Vocational Education, Kansas City, January 6, 1922. 



1922] HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT CLASSES 417 

1. How much time do you spend dressing yourself? Bring a plan of your room drawn to 
scale showing arrangement of furniture. Study the convenience of arrangement in relation 
to your dressing, trying to minimize steps and time. 

2. Make a study of cleaning your room. How do you make unnecessary work for your- 
self? How can you improve your methods? 

3. Keep a record of how you spend your time for a whole day. Make plans for another 
day avoiding wasted time and energy. 

4. Study general household cleaning. Plan the contents and arrangement of a cleaning 
closet so that the work will be made as simple as possible. 

5. Observe the time required to serve the food for a certain meal. Plan to make this 
service as little and yet as pleasing as possible. 

6. Record the time required to wash and put away the dishes for a certain meal. See 
how much time can be saved by care in soiling fewer dishes, soaking pans, using dish drainer 
and convenient dish cabinet. 

7. Cook the breakfasts for the family for a series of mornings. Record the time spent and 
the order of work, trjong to improve each day. 

8. Bring a plan of the kitchen arrangement and make any changes that are possible to 
improve its convenience. 

9. Study the cleaning of the kitchen, methods, labor-saving equipment, cleansing agents, 
care of food storage places. 

10. Observe the order of work and time spent by your mother in preparing a dinner. 

11. Taking the same menu, prepare the dinner yourself, trying to do as well as, or better 
than, your mother. 

12. Make out a list of standard dishes which you should learn to cook in family-size 
quantities before the term is over. Report these as you cook them, giving name of dish, 
materials used vrith quantities and cost, method of preparation, number served, time spent in 
preparation, parent's criticism. 

13. Observe how your mother selects and orders food. 

14. Working with her, plan the meals for a week and do all the buying. Bring in your 
meal plans and purchase slips for criticism. 

15. Go with your mother to pay bills. How are they paid? How are receipts kept? 

16. Keep records, personal and household. These are to be used, after one month, in 
budget study. 

17. Study the cost of your household laundry, and observe results. Study soaps and other 
cleansing agents. 

18. Take charge of the laundering of your own garments for a week. Watch for excellence 
of results, time and cost. 

19. Visit commercial laundry or a well equipped home laundry. 

20. Make an inventorj' of your clothing and estimate its cost per year. 

21. Find the cost of your home in rent or figure the cost of ownership with ta.xes, insurance, 
depreciation, etc. Figure your share of this shelter cost. 

22. Add to this cost the furniture cost per year, and the cost of operating, and find your 
share of this. 

23. Find the cost of food for a period of time and figure your share of this. 

24. What have been the miscellaneous expenses for the month? What share of these is 
yours? 

25. Sum up what it costs to keep you. Is your cost a fair share? Are you living better 
than you will be able to support yourself with your own earnings? 

26. Estimate the total income of your home and compare its plan of distribution with 
average budgets. 



418 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

27. How much time and money is spent on household labors in your home? Could 
more energy, time, money be saved by doing less of some things and more of others? 

28. Study the cost and value of a home garden, if gardens are possible in the locality. 

29. Bring reports of the cost and income from the keeping of a cow, and of chickens. 

30. Assume the complete management of your home for a time. 

31. How plan to close a house for a time. How avoid leaving a chance for the develop- 
ment of household pests? How pack for a trip or for moving? 



MOTION STUDY AND COSTING IN HOUSEHOLD AND 
HOME ORGANIZATION! 

JAMES C. SMAIL 

London County Council 

It is estimated that there are at least eight million women engaged in 
household affairs in Britain, and if, by a system of economical working, 
one hour per day could be saved in each case, eight million hours daily 
would be the resulting economy. It has been estimated at various 
times that from one-quarter to one-third of household labor is generally 
non-productive or wasteful. In some cases, the waste is estimated at 
50 per cent; consequently, there is an enormous field for improved 
effort. Motion study, undertaken in America, had relation to organized 
industry, and was definitely designed to reduce the working costs under 
which organizations employed skilled and unskilled labor. An early 
experiment on unskilled labor has shown that a very considerable im- 
provement can be made by a suitable selection of members of the staff 
for particular jobs, according to physique, capacity, intelligence; and, 
further, that the methods adopted in actual working are capable of 
systematized training. The analysis was re-inforced by photographic 
studies of the actual movements of the worker, and, in many cases, it 
was necessary for the individual to be trained to alter the method of 
carrying out an operation. 

The application of these results to the home is not a simple matter. 
The idea of having systematic records is so revolutionary that it would 
in general, be scoffed at. 

' Extracts from a paper read at a Conference held in cormection with the Ideal Homes 
Exhibition, London. 



1922] HOUSEHOLD AND HOME ORGANIZATION 419 

It would not be impossible to educate a group of home workers, 
provided they were to work under suitable conditions afterwards, but an 
immediate problem arises from the fact that almost every kitchen and 
every arrangement of equipment in every household varies greatly 
from every other; secondly, the methods taught in an ideal kitchen for 
an ideal home might not be operative in the ordinary home, as it stands. 

The amount of wastage which goes on daily is largely due to the de- 
fective lay-out of kitchens and other rooms. Individuals start life as 
married couples with the good wishes of their friends and the unfortunate 
acceptance of many gifts which have to be cleaned and restored through- 
out a long lifetime at infinite labor and possibly without the production 
of much happiness. One of the fundamental principles for securing 
diminution of labor is to eliminate useless articles from household equip- 
ment. Having done this, it is then necessary to arrange and organize 
the essential equipment so that it can be reached, if it has to be handled, 
with the minimum of movement, and that it can be cleaned with the 
minimum effort. 

Apart from the lay-out of the kitchen or home, there is the important 
question of the lay-out of time to the best advantage. In comparatively 
few households wiU regular time-tables be found, but it is important that 
a definite time be set apart for a particular operation, and that this 
operation be carried out at the allotted time and within definite time 
limits. It is the simplest and the commonest vice to be extremely busy 
in doing one thing after another without an organized plan, and con- 
sequently to achieve comparatively little. 

The daily routine should not only provide for certain operations 
to be carried out between definite hours, but it should also provide for 
suitable rest pauses of, say, 30 minutes in some cases, 15 minutes in 
others, when the definite program wiU be to cease work and relax. This 
has not only the effect of reducing fatigue, but also of reducing nerve 
strain, one of the most fruitful causes of discord and difficulty. 

As a matter of simple experiment, the ordinary household procedure 
can be checked most easily by making a number of time-tables, and by 
using the clock as the chief measuring instrument. A given operation 
is performed from one week to another, and it should be easy to time 
the proceedings exactly. The second step would then be to examine 
the various movements in the process and to see how many of them can 
be reduced or eliminated. Some maj^ be eliminated by more careful 
planning, others will require an alteration in the disposition of equipment. 



420 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Costing is regarded, in general, as a means of determining, in industrial 
business, what charges should be made for particular work done, and, 
through costing economy, management can be effected. The household 
budget is capable of analysis, but, in this sense, costing is a different 
matter from costing in industrial factories. 

To understand the budget properly, it is necessary to divide it into 
certain broad sections without analyzing the details in those sections 
first. The special sections are: (1) household charges — rent, insurance, 
taxes; (2) clothing — boots, personal expenses; (3) food supplies — bread, 
meat, vegetables, tea, sugar, milk, etc.; (4) household repairs; (5) sundry 
expenditures. A proper record of these items from week to week will 
soon show where excess expenditure occurs; it will then be necessary to 
analyze the expenditure in one or other of the groups. There is also 
the question of lessening costs by ordering and shopping in an economical 
fashion. It may be possible to buy an article cheaply in a given place, 
but to spend a certain amount on travelling and a great deal of time 
before this is achieved. The balance is to be sought in the apportion- 
ment of spare time. It does not always follow that the individual 
shopper is economical when she has secured a "bargain." It might 
result in waste of time, or even bad health, which makes it anything but 
a wise expenditure. 

Finally, attention may be drawn to the psychological factors involved 
in household work. It is unusual for household work to be completed 
early in the day. This is due to more than one cause. Interruptions 
are frequent, but there is also some tendency to think that things are 
not being well done unless they are prolonged for many working hours. 
This is a deep rooted and injurious opinion held by many housekeepers. 
It would revolt many to find an individual resting, yet experience and 
experimental work has shown that this is of prime importance in in- 
creasing the output of work. If working hours are reduced systemati- 
cally, the perpetual grind of unfinished work that causes the harassed 
look on many a face can be largely obviated. 

Nervous tension is very common; it may be relieved by rest pauses 
at suitable intervals, or by change of environment, at long intervals, 
commonly known as a holiday. Sometimes the cost to a household in 
providing a holiday will be one of the best items of expenditure in their 
budget. 



1922] EVOLUTION OF A NUTRITION CLASS PROGRAM 421 

THE EVOLUTION OF A NUTRITION CLASS PROGRAM 

GERTRUDE GATES MUDGE 
Supervisor of Nutrition, New York County Chapter, American Red Cross 

Within the past few years, those interested in nutrition class work 
have witnessed a phenomenal growth in the popularity of the movement. 
Classes have been initiated by many types of health and social agencies, 
by schools, and by churches. All manner of workers have had a part 
in the undertaking; the physician, the nurse, the home economics and 
physical training teachers, the "nutrition specialist" with combined 
home economics, social service, and health training, and the plain 
''college graduate" with no speciality but much enthusiasm. The New 
York Nutrition Council, with an attendance at its monthly meetings of 
from two to three hundred, attests the widespread interest in the work. 
Truly, the undernourished child is in the lime-light of the health 
education stage. 

With this mushroom growth, has come an ever increasing real- 
ization of the necessity for careful standardization of methods of 
work, in order to make past accomplishments of permanent value. 
Past achievements must be evaluated and future plans based upon pre- 
vious success and failures. As a contribution to such an inventory of 
nutrition stock, the following brief history of the evolution of a nutrition 
class program is presented for your consideration. 

The Health Ser\'ice, New York County Chapter, American Red Cross 
opened its first Child Health Stations in the fall of 1920. Two were 
located in settlement houses on the lower East and West sides, in Jewish 
and Italian districts, respectively. Later two others were opened: 
one in an uptown public school where the work was conducted in co- 
operation with the New York City Departments of Health and Educa- 
tion and Teachers' College, Columbia University; the other in co- 
operation with the East Harlem Health Center, which is located on 
the upper east side in an Italian district. Only the work of the first two 
Stations is reported here. 

Two nutrition workers were appointed for each Station. Medical 
service was supplied by paid pediatrists and dental care made available 
through the services of paid oral hygienists and volunteer dentists. 
Undernourished children for the nutrition classes were secured according 
to the approved method of the time, by weighing and measuring all the 



422 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

children in the first three grades of public schools in the respective 
neighborhoods. Children found to be 8 per cent or more underweight 
for height and age were given a thorough physical examination, and, at 
the recommendation of the pediatrists, were enrolled in nutrition 
classes. These groups met weekly for a period of four months for nutri- 
tion instruction, after which time they were transferred to a monthly 
basis. The outline used for the nutrtion class lessons is as follows: 

I. Food (at least 8 lessons) 

1-5. Simple foods which should be included in children's diets. The purpose of these 
lessons should be to acquaint the children with these foods and to encourage 
them to eat and enjoy the foods thus introduced to them. 
6-8. Meats. In these lessons the points covered should be the need of meals at 
regular hours, and the suitable amounts and combinations of foods. If pos- 
sible, children should be seated at a table and should learn something about 
proper table manners as well as how to set a table for meals. 
II. General hygiene (6 lessons) 

9. Physiology lesson, stressing need of laxative foods. 

10. Posture and exercise, including value of deep breathing. 

11. General cleanliness. 

12. Sleep and rest. 

13-14. Teeth, including the importance of correct food for building of teeth, the value 
of thorough mastication of food, and the tooth brush drill. These lessons 
should be given in cooperation with the Red Cross dentists and oral 
hygienists. 
m. Subject matter which should be a part of each lesson 

1. Posture. 

2. General Cleanliness. 

3. Sleep and rest. 

Note: These lessons are designed to cover a period of four months or about 16 lessons. 
Fourteen of the lessons are provided for by the above outUne, leaving 2 to be used for any 
special educational need which has become apparent in connection with the conduct of the 
individual class. 

All children were transferred to the monthly classes at the end of the 
four month's period of intensive teaching, whether or not they had reached 
average weight for their height and age. If they had fulfilled the re- 
quirements for graduation, a ceremony with accompanying honors took 
place, and a diploma was given to each one. The requirements for 
graduation were as follows: 1. That the child shall have had, as far 
as possible, all physical defects corrected. 2. That he shall have ap- 
proximately reached average weight for his height and age. 3. That 
he shall have regularly attended the sessions of his nutrition class. 4. 
That he be practicing in his daily life the lessons learned in class. 



1922] EVOLUTION OF A NUTRITION CLASS PROGRAM 423 

Frequent home \-isits were made by the nutrition workers, not only 
to urge the parents to cooperate in the correction of the physical defects 
of their children, but also to carry the nutrition class teaching into the 
homes. It was always the desire of the workers that the parents attend 
the classes whenever possible, but, as many were too busy to come weekly 
to the Stations, teaching in the homes became of more and more 
importance. 

During the first year, classes were organized and conducted according 
to this plan. Firm contacts were made, not only with the families, but 
also with the cooperating settlement houses, the neighboring social and 
health agencies, and especially with the public schools. Both principals 
and teachers became increasingly interested in this educational program, 
and frequently referred special cases to the nutrition workers for 
attention. 

As time elapsed, it became more and more apparent to the workers 
that logically the classes should be organized in the school and conducted 
in school hours as an integral part of the school program, the Stations 
being used primarily for pre-school work. At the close of the first year, 
with the approval of the Health Service Committee and the school 
authorities, it was decided that the newly organized classes should be 
held in the schools. The general procedure in their organization was 
similar to that previously described. Classes were held in any vacant 
space available; the auditorium, a class room, the teachers' room, and 
even the lobby of the assembly hall were pressed into service. The 
nutrition workers found these necessary adjustments to the school 
system irksome, as compared to the conveniences afforded at the Child 
Health Stations. However, the results more than justified their added 
efforts. The children attended more regularly as they were sent directly 
from the different class rooms. The teaching carried more weight in 
the home because it was identified with the school system, with which 
the parents were acquainted. The principals and teachers were more 
closely allied with the new health teaching, and added their authority 
to the carrying out of the program. The nutrition workers were then 
able to cooperate more effectively in the health activities of the schools. 

After four months of this experiment, the workers decided that one 
more step was necessary in this evolution of the nutrition class. So far, 
only undernourished children of the primary grades had been selected 



424 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

for membership in the classes, no instruction being made available for 
the so-called normal children. Conferences with principals and class 
teachers assured the nutrition workers of their approval of the plan to 
conduct the teaching of nutrition and health for the benefit of the entire 
class room, this to be done in close cooperation with the grade teacher. 
Three such classes of third grade children were organized. The gen- 
eral outline of work was briefly as follows: 

I. Selection of children 

a. Number — all children in one class 

b. Grade — ■2nd or 3rd grade 

c. Age — 1 to 8 years 

d. Sex — Either all boys or all girls, if possible 
II. Medical information 

a. Record of school physician to be used in cooperation with school nurse 

b. Special physical examination by Red Cross pediatrist for undernourished in class, 

number determined by usual procedure of height and weight measurements 

III. Treatment of physical defects 

a. All children should have: (1) oral hygiene, (2) dental repair work 

b. Undernourished children should have other physical defects remedied as far as 

possible 

IV. Conduct of nutrition class 

a. Schedule — class to be held once a week for 15 or 20 minutes during school hours, 

as in physical training period, etc. 

b. Weight records — all children to be weighed every week, if possible 

c. Class instruction — to be given by grade teacher assisted by nutrition worker, or 

by nutrition worker herself, as preferred 

d. Duration of class — three or four months 

e. Home visiting — visits to be made only in homes of undernourished children and 

others at the special request of the grade teacher 

At the termination of this demonstration, it was the unanimous 
opinion of the nutrition workers that nutrition education should not 
only have a permanent place in the school curriculum, but that it should 
be made available for all children of the primary as well as the grammar 
school grades. A private agency, such as the American Red Cross, can 
render inestimable service by demonstrating the value of such education 
in health habits, but it is for the established school personnel to assume 
the permanent responsibility for the program. The problem as to who 
is best qualified to assume this responsibility is yet to be solved. To- 
gether, the home economics and grade teachers and the school nurse 
should work for the common health of their school children. 



1922] ARTIFICIAL SILK 425 

ARTIFICIAL SILK* 

LOIS M. RATH 
Iowa State College, Ames 

In the last century a new textile fiber known as artificial silk has been 
invented and is fast taking its place among the natural vegetable and 
animal fibers. Although there is a great deal still to be done in the im- 
provement of this fiber, its progress in the textile world has been very- 
rapid and it is sure to have a wonderful future. 

All early artificial siUc was made by the Chardonnet process or a modi- 
fication of it, nitrocellulose being used as a basis (1), (2). Chardonnet 
himself opened up the first factory and was almost without a competitor 
until seven years later when Pauly took out a patent for the manufacture 
of cuprammonium silk. These processes were French and German in 
origin, but viscose silk, the latest and at present the most important of 
any of the forms of artificial silk, is entirely English in both origin and 
development. It is distinguished from the others by its great covering 
power, its luster and greater resistance to dyeing, and is being used very 
widely. Cellulose acetate is also being manufactured at present although 
only to a limited extent (3). 

Development of tlie industry. The war greatly reduced the European 
production of artificial silk, stopping work in all the plants in Belgium 
and in invaded portions of France, while the shortage of labor and chemi- 
cals affected the industry in other countries. The great Tubize Company 
in Belgium (4), in operation since 1900, with a pre-war production 
of about 10,000 pounds daily, dismantled its factories and buried or 
otherwise concealed its lead, copper, and other metal fixtures, its elec- 
tric motors, generators, wiring, and belting, and escaped German con- 
fiscation. Shortly after the war closed, this factory was operating at 
the rate of its pre-war output and showed a profit for the fiscal year, 
1919, of 4,178,264 francs. This plant uses the Chardonnet process 
and is about to commence making silk by the viscose process. Recently 
it contracted with an American syndicate to erect a large artificial silk 
factory in the United States, with an initial capital of $5,000,000. An- 
other Belgian factory, after ten months' work of restoring half of its 
installation, reports a profit of 2,142,757 francs for four months' opera- 
tion in 1919 (4). The manufacture of this chemically produced textile 

* This paper is part of a cooperative project done under the direction of Professors Iva 
L. Brandt of the Home Economics Dept. and Ruth O'Brien of the Chemistry Dept. 



426 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

is now going on in Switzerland, Germany, Poland, Russia, Italy, Japan, 
and the United States, as well as in Belgium. 

It is of interest that the bulk of imported artificial silk yams, threads, 
and filaments came from England in 1918, but in 1919 receipts from Switz- 
erland of $1,983,251 exceed those from England by $1,311,883. Valu- 
able imports of these yams from the Netherlands, Italy, Belgium, and 
France, and of other manufactures of artificial silk from Switzerland 
and the Netherlands, as shown for the calendar year 1919, indicate a 
rapid recovery to normal industry. Although $200,685 worth of yams 
came from Germany in 1919, it dropped to sixth among the countries 
from which these imports were derived, whereas, at the outbreak of the 
war, it was crowding Belgium for second rank following England (4). 

According to a recent report of Assistant Trade Commissioner Breed 
of Prague, a group of German textile manufacturers has established a 
new company in Prague for the manufacture of artificial silk (5) . Other 
important concerns are also reported to be established in this industry. 
According to the American IVIinister at Prague, this industry is making 
unusual progress in Czecho-Slovakia (6). In May, 1921, four concerns, 
with a total capitalization of 130,000,000 crowns, had been established. 

In July, 1920, it was announced that the Italian company, S. N. I. A. 
(Societa' di Navigazione Italo Americana), which had increased its 
capital and had extended the scope of its activities, would in the near 
future begin the construction of several new plants for the manufacture 
of artificial silk (7) . These plants, it was thought, would be located at 
Turin, Naples, Orbasano, and Bra. In the first two instances sites had 
already been purchased, and it was expected that these new plants 
would employ not less than 10,000 workers. The S. N. I. A. Company, 
through the controlling interest which it holds both in the "Cines" 
Seta Artificiale and in the Viscosa Company of Pavia, as well as in the 
Societa' Italiana della Viscosa, which is located at Veneria Reale, near 
Turin, is already the dominant factor in the artificial silk industry of 
Italy. 

Since European countries were the first to develop artificial silk com- 
mercially, we find that it features in the import trade of the United 
States for about ten years before it appears to any great extent among 
its exports. Artificial silk and its manufacturers were first shown sepa- 
rately in one class in the statistical classification of imports for the fiscal 
year 1911 with a total of 1,947,423 pounds valued at $3,279,559 (4). 
All but 12 pounds of this came from Europe. 



1922] ARTIFICIAL SILK 427 

From 1912 to 1920, inclusive, the imports of artificial silk yams, 
threads, and filaments amounted to 14,330,366 pounds valued at 
$25,351,906 or an average of 1,592,263 pounds annually. Other manu- 
factures for the corresponding nine years totaled $5,236,650, or an 
average of $581,850 armually. 

The shortage of real silk during the war period resulted in an increased 
demand for substitutes for natural silk. At no time during or since the 
war has the world supply of artificial silk been equal to the demand. 
The substitute, of course, cannot compete with the natural silk except 
in the lower grades, but in its own field, in novelties and in combination 
with cotton, it has a wide range of application. 

The first plant to produce artificial silk in the United States was es- 
tablished in 1911 as a branch of an English firm, and used the viscose 
method. From 1911 the figure of 320,000 pounds' production of this 
concern rose to 9,000,000 pounds in 1920, and at the present time ex- 
pansion is under way which will more than double its capacity (8). 
In 1919, there were only two concerns in the United States actually pro- 
ducing artificial silk yams on a commercial scale, one located at Cleve- 
land, Ohio, and the other with factories at Marcus Hook, Pa., and Roan- 
oke, Virginia (4). The latter was said to be producing from 150,000 to 
200,000 pounds per week in September, 1920. The extraordinary demand 
for this product, however, has led to the recent formation of other cor- 
porations, with abundant capital to establish large factories. Each of 
three large American concerns is said to be allied with the largest pro- 
ducers in France, England, and Belgium, respectively. The firms in 
this country now manufacturing artificial silk are the Viscose Company, 
Lewiston, Pa.; Du Pont Fiber Silk Company, Buffalo; Tubize Artificial 
Silk Company, Hopewell, Va., which manufactures nitro-ceUulose silk; 
American Cellulose and Chemical Manufacturing Company, Cumberland, 
Md., which also manufactures a cellulose-acetate silk; and R. P. Dicks, 
Patterson, New Jersey (9). 

In June, 1921, the board of managers of the Silk Association of 
America elected eleven new firms to membership. Two artificial silk 
concerns, the Viscose Company, and the du Pont Fibersilk Company 
of Buffalo, were among the eleven, being eligible through a recent 
decision of the board (10). 

Chemical and physical properties. Artificial silk has many defects 
as compared with the natural silk. Some of these are: the size or the 
denier of the threads is too great ; the strength and especially the elas- 
ticity are not satisfactory ; the loss of strength on wetting is excessive ; 



428 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



the lack of covering power reduces the value of the products; some types 
do not always dye evenly. Of course, as was stated, these defects are 
gradually being overcome. Each company is experimenting and work- 
ing out improvements along these lines. Even now the Lustron Com- 
pany claims to have a silk which has a great strength when wet. Viscose 
has a much greater wet strength than nitro-cellulose. 

The artificial substitutes excel the natural silk in one quality only — 
luster. The products of the various processes differ from one another 
and from the natural silk in chemical composition. Consequently they 
have different properties and must be handled differently in spinning, 
bleaching, and dyeing. 

Artificial silk may be distinguished from natural silk by the harsher, 
stiffer feel it possesses and also by its high luster. By experimental work, 
these differences are being lessened and the time will come no doubt when 
the fibers can no longer be distinguished by their outward appearance 
only. At present they can be identified by both microscopical and chemi- 
cal means (1 and 11). 

The tensile strengths of the different fibers might also be used as a 
means of identification. The following table shows the breaking strength 
in grams (12): 



S,.K 




DRV 


WET 


REDRJED 




120 den. 
130 den. 
120 den. 
200 den. 


42 
40 
51 
91 




35 
50 
86 


95 


Glanzstoff 


41 
51.5 




88 







Viscose, at the time this table was made (1916), had a tensile strength 
about half that of real silk. 

Another table, made in about 1917, gives the grams per denier as 
follows (2): 



Chardonnet 

Lehner 

Cuprammonium (Glanzstoff) 

Viscose, 1907 

Viscose, 1913 

Viscose, 1917 

Natural sUk 



GRAMS PER DENIER 


Dry 


Wet 


1.1 


0.2S 


1.4 


0.36 


1.3 


0.5 


1.1 


0.3S 


1.4 


0.55 


1.17 


0.75 


2.5 


2.0 



1922] 



ARTIFICIAL SILK 



429 



There is apparently no data available on the tensile strength of the 
finished fabric as purchased by the consumer. In a series of experiments 
performed by the writer, Baronette satin was studied. The particular 
sample used contained 47 cotton picks per inch and 166 viscose silk 
ends per inch (75.55% viscose silk and 24.45% cotton). The determina- 
tion was made according to the standard method (13) and the follow- 
ing results obtained: 

Tensile strength Baronette satin cut with woof of viscose threads 



HEATED 


2 HOURS AT 105°C. 


WET 


WET AND REDRtED 




lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 




113.50 


23.0 


96.50 




112.50 


22.50 


95.0 




114.50 


22.25 


94.50 




115.0 


22.50 


90.0 




115.50 


22.0 


93.0 




114.0 


22.25 


92.25 




116.50 


23.0 


94.25 




113.50 


23.0 


94.25 




114.50 


23.0 


93.0 




117.50 


22.50 


91.0 


Average. . . 


.114.7 


22.6 


93.37 



This data illustrates the decided reduction in strength when the 
fabric is wet or redried after wetting.* 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Textile Fibers, Mathews. Wiley & Son. 

2. History of Artificial Silk, Wilson, Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind., 36, p. 817; Chem. Abs. 11, p. 3440. 

3. Recent Improvements in Artificial Silk and the Present Position of the Industry, W. P. 

Dreaper, Jour. Soc. of Dyers & Cohurists, Jan., 1907. 

4. Artificial Silk Trade of the U. S., Commerce Reports, Sept. 15, 1920. 

5. European Industrial Notes, Commerce Reports, Dec. 13, 1920. 

6. The Artificial Silk Industry in Czecho-Slovakia, Commerce Reports, May 13, 1921. 

7. Economic Notes from Italy, Commerce Reports, July 26, 1920. 

8. Artificial Silk Fast Gaining Favor, Nat. Bank of Commerce, N. Y. Newspaper Article, 

Nov. 1, 1921. 

9. Textile World Jour., Feb. 4, 1922, p. 661. 

10. Artificial Silk Firms Elected to Silk Association, Women's Wear, June 9, 1921. 

11. Tests for Identification, Schwalbe-Wochbl. Papierfabr., 38, p. 3913 (C. A. 2, p. 591). 

12. Notes on Tensile Strength of Artificial Silk, Pentecost, Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind., 35, p. 586. 

13. Tensile Strength and Elongation, Bureau of Standards, Technical Bull. 41, page 14. 

* Such properties as well as the resistance of the fabric to light, perspiration, and wear are 
of importance from a practical standpoint, and are being studied in this laboratory. 



430 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

A CLOTHING PROJECT 

BEULAH BLACKMORE 

School of Borne Economics, Cornell Unhersily 

One of the criticisms raised against the classroom method of teaching 
clothing, especially in the teacher training classes, is that the students' 
needs are so carefully anticipated that she does not realize the pitfalls 
until she is thrown upon her own resources in teaching. This causes 
the young teacher to flounder because she lacks a clean cut point of 
view, and, in many cases, it lowers the standard of her work. 

In a clothing class, which is based upon selection and design, a student 
should first, by guidance and analysis of designs, build up for herself 
a series of principles which should function as a basis for sound judgment 
in future decisions. She must formulate these principles independently 
after problems have been discussed; otherwise, they never become vital 
in her decisions. Second, she should build up a certain amount of ac- 
curate technique, a flexibility of method which will enable her to handle 
in an acceptable way almost any technical problem related to the work 
on which she has been given instruction. 

In order to test these theories, it was decided to try, as a simple pro- 
ject, the making of a gingham dress, in a course in principles and practice 
in clothing construction and design. The project method had previously 
been discussed in the methods class. The instructor aimed to make the 
organization so simple as to suggest to the students a method of conduct- 
ing a similar project with high school girls. The following outlines 
explain the method. Part I was prepared by the instructor. Part 11 
was worked out by the instructor and the students during a lecture 
period. Part III was a brief examination, the results of which were 
tabulated and discussed with the students. Part IV was worked out 
by the instructor to guide the discussion of the students. 

PART I. CLOTHING PROJECT 

The project undertaken must be approved by the instructor. In 
planning the project, students should keep the following points in mind: 

Place. The work may be done in the clothing laboratory or at home. 
The students must report to the instructor at least once a week. 

Preliminary work. Dress designs, appropriate for the project, and 
approximate cost will be discussed with the instructor. The student 
will then make her own selection. She may model the garment, or use 
a commercial pattern, or a combination of the two. 



1922] A CLOTHING PROJECT 431 

Tiine. Six 2| hour laboratory periods. 

Report. A written report, following the outline provided, is due with 
the product. 

PART II. REPORT OF PROJECT 

1. Student's name. 

2. Nature of the project, (a) Brief description of the person for 
whom made, (b) Type of garment and appropriate for what use. 
(c) Sketch of the dress, (d) Reason for selecting this design, (e) 
Sample of material stating why it was chosen. 

3. Dates of beginning and ending of the project. 

4. Actual number of hours spent on the project. 

5. Plan of work, (a) Actual use of time on two days, (b) Number 
of consultations and with whom held, (c) Trips down town, (d) 
Itemized account on separate sheet, (e) Difficulties met and how 
solved. 

6. Related subject matter used. 

7. Evaluation of this experience in terms of personal gain. 

PART ni. EXAMINATION 

Typical questions were as follows: Is this exercise a true project? 
Would you advise the continuance of this method of teaching, and, if so, 
would you suggest modifications? Is this method economical as to 
time? Is it possible to use this plan, with modifications, in high school 
teaching? 

PART IV. DISCUSSION 

1 . Score card evolved by class for grading this particular project. 

Score Card 

I. General appearance. Proportion (spacing, dark, light), line, color, silhouette, te.xture. 
II. Suitability for intended use. Suitability of material (spacing, line, silhouette, tex- 
ture), suitabiUty of color. 
III. Workmanship. Hems, seams, stitchery, pressing, other finishes — bindings, facings, 
fastenings, cordings. 

Questions 

Which dress seems most appropriate for the wearer? 

Which dress fits the best? 

Which dress will probably give greatest happiness for the longest time? Why? 

Comments. 



432 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

2. Criticism of dresses by class, according to score card. 

3. Comparison of dresses with ready-made dresses of about the same 
grade as to design, quality of materials used, wearing quality, finish, cost. 

4. Discussion of entire exercise as to consciousness of needs, with 
special reference to selection, design, technique; means by which an 
attempt should be made to meet needs; pleasurable features; general 
criticism of Part II. 

The suggestions from this discussion influence the subject matter to be 
presented during the remainder of the course. 

The results of this project were gratifying and illuminating to instruc- 
tor and students. It is suggested that this method of vitalizing clothing 
work be used early in the course. 



CHOOSING A LIFE WORK 

MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN 

Specialist in Vocational Education 

Forty years ago, south of Rector Street in New York City, there was 
but one woman employed in any office. So rare a thing was it to find 
a woman in that part of the city that the restaurants were not open to 
her and the lonely worker had to carry her lunch with her or go with- 
out. Even twenty-five years ago, institutions training for the few 
professions open to women were just beginning to stress the need of a 
college education as a required basis for the special calling. With these 
facts in mind, in this year of grace, 1922, Ehzabeth Kemper Adams' 
book, "Women Professional Workers"' seems like an Arabian Night's 
Tale. 

Representative occupations are scanned to determine whether or not 
they are worthy of being called professions. Professional people are 
officially in the public eye and are being judged. Women to be con- 
sidered a success should raise the standard of their callings, constantly 
endeavor to improve themselves, increase the group spirit and ideals of 
brotherhood and disinterested service, and take an active part in associa- 
tions of their respective professions. During the late war army officers 

1 Research Department, Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, Mass. 



1922] CHOOSING A LIFE WORK 433 

were rated for intelligence, physical fitness, leadership, personal qualities, 
and general value in the service, and women could well develop similar 
standards in their work. Their future recognition depends largely on 
establishing, maintaining, and raising the grades of the professions in 
which they are engaged. Men have set standards for the learned and 
scientific professions, and women must not only live up to them but set 
equivalent ones in the newer professions. They must think clearly and 
honestly of the requirements of professional life and appreciate that they 
can receive recognition from their brothers only when they take a serious 
attitude toward all professions open to them. 

Professions into which women are going. The professions open to 
women are grouped under the following heads: Learned Professions, — law, 
medicine, and the ministry; Health outside of Medicine; Food and Living; 
Community, Civic, Government, Social, Personnel, Industrial, Labor, 
Commercial, and Information Services; Art and Technical Professions; 
Library and Museum Work; Teaching and Education. 

Law, medicine, and the ministry have long had the prestige of high 
ideals, careful organization, and standard curricula. Women are found 
in all of them but they have their greatest success in the newer social 
phases. In law, they are of value in problems of human relations and 
justice. In medicine they are efficient in institutions, in laboratory 
work and in scientific research. They look after the health of employes 
and are nurses in hospitals, dispensaries, baby hygiene depots, and in 
private and community service. The trained social worker, who can 
diagnose disease and use practical psychology in advice, is in increasing 
demand at the hospitals. A woman has been appointed on the medical 
faculty of Harvard and of Iowa State University. The higher ideals of 
the responsibility of the employer for the employe are bringing indus- 
trial health service into factories and department stores, and women are 
filling worthy positions. The ministry is also recruiting women with 
college training to conduct the social branch of the parish work. 

Feeding, housing, textiles and clothing are tremendous businesses 
and professional women are being called to positions of responsibility 
and insight. Home economics is demanding new phases of training in 
business, industry, accounting, psychology, applied science and art, 
sociolog>', economics, labor problems and administration. Teachers are 
the most numerous group in this field but the profession is extending into 
civic agencies. 



434 THE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

During the war the development of food production on an enormous 
scale led to new professions for women. They succeeded as producers 
on the farm as well as in marketing the product and in conduct of the 
canteen. The need for salvaging textiles and clothing demanded experts 
in these subjects. It was realized that food, clothing, and textiles are 
great public utilities and are intimately related to industry, health, 
thrift, and recreation. Local banks have opened rooms in which expert 
consultants trained in home economics can meet those who desire 
information. 

Institution management and large scale food services are taking 
women into hospitals, university commons, and public institutions. 
Employers are utilizing college women to solve for them the problem of 
feeding large numbers so that efhciency is increased. Revolutions have 
come about in methods of service through cafeterias, and self-service 
and automatic restaurants. Hotels are also under women's guidance. 

Municipal housing problems are open to those who are trained in social 
economics and city government. Community and social work are de- 
veloping standards which are becoming professional. Community 
clinics for nutrition and information bureaus for food, clothing, and 
household matters are being conducted by professional experts. The 
States Relations Service of the United States Department of Agriculture 
and the Federal Board for Vocational Education have encouraged 
these movements and are employing college women with special training. 

The business world is calling for the trained woman and, increasingly, 
for the college woman. She is found as a buyer of textiles and clothing, 
as an efficiency manager in ready-to-wear workrooms, as an expert de- 
signer of costumes, or as an adviser in the selection of merchandise for 
all departments of a retail store. Advertising and editorial work in 
both trade and household journals are in her hands. The "personnel" 
service is one of the newer fields. 

Women are found in many phases of art as architects, musicians, 
painters, mural decorators, and designers. They are in moving picture 
studios and on the stage. They are doing artistic and skillful craft 
work in glass, metals, and textiles. 

In the technical fields women are demonstrating that thej^ can qualify 
for a high degree of efficiency. They are found in chemical and bacterio- 
logical, geological, and geographical laboratories; they are assisting in 
engineering, in mathematical astronomy, and in mechanical industries. 
They succeed as topographical draughtsmen. Statistical services are 
using women to conduct work in mechanical tabulations and statistical 
science. 



1922] MARKET MYTHS 435 

Older professions for women, such as teaching, and library and museum 
work, are extending their former fields and offering new and interesting 
allied professions. 

In this treasure house of guidance, deans, counsellors, and teachers will 
find material to direct intelligently those who come to them seeking to 
discover their life work. For all college women, questions are here set 
forth for solution that should be faced with a determination to raise 
the standard in all professions for women, intellectually, technically, and 
spiritually. 



MARKET MYTHS 

CAROLINE B. SHERMAN 
Assistant in Market Information, U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Certain market myths confront every worker in market subjects with 
an enviable persistence. They are advanced wisely as original ideas, 
or they are referred to with an air of reverence, as shibboleths. They 
are on the tongues alike of the learned and the unlearned. Could these 
v,'orkers for better distribution coin slogans, fundamentally sound, that 
\ > uld take the same tenacious hold upon the minds and imaginations of 
the public, that alone would make their work constructive. 

"The elimination of the middleman" is a process often commended, 
often urged. But is it possible? Is it desirable? Who are the middle- 
men? What work do they do or what functions do they perform? 
Middlemen include the country buyer in remote districts who buys the 
comparatively small quantities of many foodstuffs grown by the small 
farmer. Even he may not be able to accumulate a carload and so may 
be compelled to sell or consign to another dealer in a concentration point 
who can assemble the carload lots necessary for economical shipping over 
long distances. Then other middlemen must distribute these same prod- 
ucts in wholesale and retail quantities in the consuming centers. 

The warehousemen who store our food products from the time of 
harvest until needed by manufacturers or city families are middlemen. 

The manufacturers who turn cattle into meat and grain into flour, 
and the bakers who turn flour into bread are middlemen. The whole- 



436 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

sale dealers in the deUse business areas of large terminal markets, the 
more accessible retail dealers, and the comer grocers are middlemen. 
Close study of the processes of marketing under our existing conditions, 
with large cities fed from remote producing areas, fails to reveal any 
one of these classes of middlemen who could be spared today without 
making the marketing process more difficult. 

Under suitable conditions and circumstances, organizations of pro- 
ducers may be developed that can successfully undertake some of these 
functions, but it must be remembered that the functions are highly 
specialized. Conceivably, but not so certainly, organizations of con- 
sumers may be developed that can assume other of the necessary func- 
tions. The number of middlemen may be reduced, competition by 
hired intermediaries of associations may be introduced, improvement 
in methods may be brought about, and charges for certain services may 
be decreased, but the functions performed by middlemen cannot be 
eliminated unless farmers or city dwellers are willing to return to such 
operations as the grinding of their own grain and the baking of theirown 
bread. 

"Bringing producer and consumer together" is another favorite ex- 
pression of the same general idea, For small quantities in small com- 
munities, well and good. Even large fanners' markets often prosper in 
large cities although there are always many thrifty farmers who find it 
more profitable to spend their time in production than in selling at retail, 
and some consumers who do not find it profitable to spend the necessary 
time in going to a downtown market when food can be bought from a 
dealer nearer home. 

But what of the 12 million bushels of potatoes needed to supply New 
York City during one year? Should the growers from Maine to Florida, 
and the Great Lake States, attempt to carry these potatoes to the millions 
of New York homes that need them? Or will the New York families 
journey to those far-distant states for their potatoes? Even to go 
"up state," personally, for the family supply is out of the question. 
Limit New York City to the potatoes and other foods that can be grown 
on neighboring ground and it will be reduced to an immediate state of 
famine. By what imaginable process, then, can the mass of producers 
and consumers be brought together? 

"Dumping to keep up price" is a not infrequent charge against dealers 
in food products. Not only has thorough search and investigation by 
trained workers failed to reveal actual proof of any such occurrence. 



1922] HOUSEKEEPING ON A FARM IN NORTHERN SP.\IN 437 

except in case of spoilage, but all reason is against it. Keeping up prices 
by such methods presupposes control of the entire supply of the product 
by a few individuals. Fresh fruits and vegetables move into markets 
from hundreds and even thousands of scattered growers and are handled 
by many dealers. Dumping by any one owner would obviously subject 
him to loss, and the slight price increase that might conceivably result 
would benefit, not the man who dumped, but his competitors. If each 
dealer dumped half his supply he might hope to double prices on the other 
half, but if anything like this was done everyone would know it and proof 
could be found on every hand. This probably is the most vicious myth of 
the market that plagues the public mind. 

"Cost of production plus a reasonable profit" is frequently urged as 
the basis for price detenninations. But what is cost of production? 
In the same neighborhood the efficient and experienced farmer on good 
land, with good equipment, may produce a crop at much less cost per 
bushel than his inexperienced neighbor, who works just as hard but per- 
haps with poor tools on poor land. Is the consumer ready to pay the 
ineffective producer a much higher price for his produce because he has 
unwisely spent much on its production? On the other hand if only the 
best land is utilized will there be food enough? 

Efficiency is a threadbare word but it supplies the only hope of early 
improvement in our present food marketing situation. Increased effi- 
ciency in production, that is, the production of food at a low cost per unit, 
coupled with increased efficiency in marketing, with just compensation 
for ser\'ices rendered and risks taken, constitutes the one promising 
program for improvement in the great business of feeding the nation. 
Progress in this program will come only as we work away from catchwords 
and set phrases and devote ourselves to clear and impartial analysis and 
unprejudiced and independent thinking. 



HOUSEKEEPING ON A FARM IN NORTHERN SPAIN 

In an interesting volume describing a journey through mountain 
regions of Northern Spain, seldom visited by tourists, Hans Gadow^ 
gives much information about the food habits, cooking methods, and 

' "In Northern Spain" by Hans Gadow (Adam and Charles Black, London, 1897). 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

other household customs of the farmer hving there. He describes a 
farm house in the mountains remote from any large town where he and 
his wife foimd kindly hospitaUty and reasonable comfort. 

The door of the farm house is protected by big stones, which are piled up to 
form a pair of steps, but so high and so sUppery have they become through the 
constant traffic that they can be passed only with great caution. The entrance, 
rather a wide and dark passage, has no floor but the natural rock, made still 
more uneven b}' slippery cobble stones, which, unless gingerly stepped upon, 
allow the foot to jam itself into the intervening deep cracks, and this "pave- 
ment" is continued into a still more dangerous pantry 

The "hall" is furnished with a bench, a few chairs, and a set of pitchers. 
A door on the left leads into the chief kitchen, a dark place, with the hearth, 
over which is suspended the kettle by iron hooks and chains, while from the 
ceUing hang hams and sides of bacon stUl curing in the rising smoke, which has 
blackened everything 

To the right of the passage is the dwelling-house, with storerooms below, 
while above is a large room, la sola, with a small shuttered window, and a 
door, likewise shuttered, and leading out upon the wooden balcony which 
looks over the whole village and commands beautiful views. The furniture 
of the sala, the general dining-room, is very simple, consisting of a comfortable, 
high-backed bench, with the dining-table in front, another table, and several 
rush-bottomed chairs. 

On the right side are two dark rooms, just large enough to hold one bed 
each, together with stores of butter and cheeses. The larger room on the 
opposite side was assigned to us. It might be called the study, for, besides 
a spare bed, the Sunday dresses of the family, and Don Prudencio's [the head 
of the house] gun, it was furnished with a table and drawers which held Don 
Prudencio's odds and ends, as, for instance, papers, writing materials, and 
a number of books 

The fare at such a farm is frugal, and not much varied. Early in the 
morning comes the desayuno, or breakfast, hterally the "disemptying," and 
this consists almost universally in Spain of a cup of chocolate. The chocolate 
is pounded in a mortar, and is made quite stiff and thick, so that it is not 
drunk, but ladled out with a piece of toast or some sweet biscuits. This is 
a very sustaining little breakfast, admirably suited to a hot country, and 
preferable to the pernicious habit of taking a glass of strong spirits. After 
a few hours' work some milk is taken, with bread and cheese, and towards 
noon follows the almiierzo, or lunch, of which boUed beans or chick-peas form 
the piece de resistance, varied by potatoes, with a small piece of bacon. The 
much-decried garlic is not at all an unpleasant addition when used with 
moderation, and the same applies to the olive oil, provided this is not rancid, 
a drawback the frequency of which increases during the summer, before the 



1922] HOUSEKEEPING ON A FARM IN NORTHERN SPAIN 439 

new oil is pressed out in the autumn. After the day's toil, at nightfall, is 
taken la cena, the meal, more or less a repetition of the almuerzo, but spun out 
to greater length, because on this occasion all the members of the family and 
the ser\-ants sit down together, while the other meals are often taken out of 
doors, in the fields, on the meadows, or in the woods, just as occasion requires. 

The Spanish countrj'-people are not great eaters; bread, an onion, and a 
piece of cheese, are often all that they take with them from early morning 
till evening, and wine is not a drink which flows freely in a farm of the Canta- 
brian mountains; it is supplanted by curds. A remarkable feature is the 
scarcity of meat. Pigs are reser\-ed for the winter; goats are killed and roasted 
on the great feast days 

Often the w^riter speaks of the Indian corn which he found growing in 
these Spanish mountains and mentions the use of cakes, i.e. bread, 
made from Indian corn meal as if it were used to a considerable extent. 
Much of the journey lay through high mountain valleys. Of one of 
these the author writes: 

Rye is the common corn, while oats are rare. Wheat and barley appear 
lower down. Potatoes are good and plentiful. Indian com does not ripen 
at this high level. Farther down it is of course grown extensively as food for 
man and beast. The bread made of this niilho is rich, agreeable in taste, and 
wholesome, provided it is well baked; otherwise it is doughy and well-nigh 
indigestible. The homemade bread at Burbia — rye bread — is bad 

Every household has its little garden, which, being carefully irrigated, 
as described before, and receiving a good deal of what would go into drains, 

if there were such things, produces plenty of beans and cabbages 

The principal meal, la cena, is taken between nine and ten o'clock at night. 

Towards dusk Inocencia [wife of Romaldo, the owner of the farm where the 
author and his wife spent a considerable time] repaired to the room below our 
quarters to fetch several handfuls of dry cabbage leaves, which were lying 
there in a heap; butter and flour came from the same stores. Romaldo then 
cut the long stalks of the leaves into small bits and threw them into an iron 
cooking kettle, and when they had boiled for a good hour, some flour and fat 
were added. In another cooking vessel the potatoes were boiled with salt. 

The supper being ready, Romaldo's family and field-labourers sat down on 
benches or logs of wood along the walls, the hearth with the kettle being in 
the middle. Everybody was supplied with a chunk of bread, and then Ino- 
cencia poured the cabbage-stew into the small pucheros, which were carried 
round by her and by Romaldo to the various people present, each person 
recei^'ing a ptickero, which they held on their knees, eating with wooden spoons. 



EDITORIAL 

The Demand for Health Workers. George E. Vincent, President 
of the Rockefeller Foundation, in his annual report forecasts the num- 
ber of public health workers needed in the United States in the next 
ten years as approximately 20,000 persons. He says that there are 
10,000 at present engaged in public health work in this country under 
federal, state, and municipal or county auspices. An equal number 
are working in one phase or another of preventive medicine in Great 
Britain. The number employed by non-governmental agencies of all 
kinds represents as many more. Health work in continental Europe 
is not so highly organized as in Great Britain, but here, as in many 
tropical countries, there is a growing demand for trained men and 
women in public health activities. 

"Even a hasty glance at the gains which have been made in safe- 
guarding human lives makes one realize how much of scientific know- 
ledge, specialized skill, and organized capacity has been called into 
service," continues President Vincent. "The expanding idea of health 
is adding new types of technically expert individuals to the personnel of 
health work. 

"The list now includes officers and chiefs who are in general charge, 
sanitary engineers, laboratory directors, specialists in statistics of birth, 
sickness, and death, field experts in the control of epidemics, administra- 
tors of clinics, hygienists for infants, medical inspectors of school children, 
mental hygienists and psychologists, leaders in health education for 
schools and the general public, visiting nurses, laboratory technicians, 
food and sanitary inspectors." 

Home economics trained women are competent to engage in a number 
of phases of public health work. The emphasis, now placed on nutrition 
as one of the major aspects of all health teaching, afi'ords them an 
opportunity to be of wide-spread service. Their training in the hygiene 
of clothing, in household and institution sanitation and cleanliness, in 
the sciences which are required in numerous lines of research in health 
problems, will enable them to join this increasing group of persons 
working for the public good from the preventive rather than the curative 
aspects. 
440 



1922] EDITORIAL 441 

The Campaign against Malnutrition. It sometimes seems as 
though people who discuss the nutrition of children are divided into two 
groups: those who are trying to wake the rest of the world to the con- 
sciousness of the need of studying and improving the nutritive condition 
of children, and those who radiate inhibitions, such as "there are no 
norms, no standard weight-height-age ratios; nobody really knows 
what malnutrition is, anj'way; what is the use of a campaign? All you 
do is to produce a race of neurotic young persons who critically scruti- 
nize their every mouthful, report all their good acts, and spend the rest 
of their days trying to bring up Father and Mother in the way they 
should go." 

As a matter of fact, most of the people who carefully and accurately 
observe many children declare that too many of them appear to be under- 
nourished, whatever the cause, whatever the strictly technical meaning 
of the word malnutrition, whatever the norm, may be. Most of these 
observers agree that something ought to be done about it. 

A plan for doing something in an organized way in cities of 2500 to 
3000 people, and in rural districts, is being prepared by the subcommittee 
of the National Child Health Council which has in charge the organiza- 
tion and conduct of nutrition work. The plan is still in tentative form, 
but it has been re\'ised, after criticism and suggestion from a large num- 
ber of the most experienced nutrition workers in the country, and it has 
been tentatively approved by the Advisory Council on Food and Nutri- 
tion. The plan is remarkable in scope, in comprehensiveness, and in 
good common sense; it is written and sponsored by experts. A clear 
and brief general outline includes preliminary work to arouse community 
interest in the malnourished child, to develop local leadership, to dis- 
cover and make use of existing machinery, to make a survey to deter- 
mine the size of the problem, and to obtain publicity and support for 
the campaign; nutrition work in the school health program, especially 
for preventive v/ork; facilities and methods for corrective work; means of 
maintaining the work; adaptation to rural conditions. This outline is 
helpfully discussed in a foreword. 

In connection with suggestions for a preliminary survey, causes of 
malnutrition are discussed briefly; some of them are more fully discussed 
in connection with points to be borne in mind by those in charge of 
nutrition work. These, and two definitions of malnutrition (one in the 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

foreword, page 1, and the other in appendix c, page 36) emphasize the 
point that malnutrition, if an entity, is not a sharply de&ned one; a con- 
ception that should be kept in mind by nutrition workers; a conception, 
too, that emphasizes the necessity, clear throughout the plan, of 
having, in the proposed campaign against malnutrition, close, organized 
cooperation of workers in m.any fields. Malnutrition is (1) a term com- 
monly used to describe the condition of a child who is not developing 
properly; (2) a term commonly applied to a condition of general physical 
subnormality in children. Certain characteristic symptoms and patho- 
logical signs are present which indicate unmistakably that there is a 
lack of proper development. Among the causes are physical defects, 
habits, immediate environment; exhaustion or over-fatigue, improper 
diet, and faulty habits; improper breathing and posture; social conditions 
in home or community; water and milk supply; housing conditions, 
atmospheric contamination. Children, parents, teachers, doctors, 
dentists, nurses, social workers, nutrition specialists, all must cooperate 
in an organized effort if an efficient community campaign is to 
be launched. 

Preventive work is to be done by extending health education in all 
schools, and including in this work nutrition teaching under the direction 
of a well-trained specialist. The organization of such work, and the 
place on the program for the midday lunch, and for the mid-morning 
lunch, are among the matters given consideration. In connection with 
corrective work, possible centers, necessary equipment, and staff of 
workers are considered, and methods of work, applied to children of 
pre-school age as well as to school children, are discussed most sugges- 
tively. There is need for pioneer work in discovering effective methods to 
use with children under six. In any case, the first step is a thorough 
general physical examination, the next, the correction of any physical 
defects found, then tlae grouping of the children who need special atten- 
tion in classes of 15 or 20 for weekly meetings. The weekly determina- 
tion and recording of weights, and the trimonthly determination of 
height are interesting and helpful to most children and their parents; 
they are criteria for judging progress. Granted that there are no re- 
liable standards: call the values used for comparison merely tentative 
averages; still, a child whose weight is ten per cent under those averages 
for his height and age will generally be bettered by increased weight, 
provided that tlie increase is not "a gain in weight by any means," but 
is a gain made by obedience to the laws of health, cleanliness, rest, exer- 
cise, fresh air, and proper food. In the meantime, accumulation of 
data will improve our "standards." 



1922] EDITORIAL 443 

It is planned to give home instruction or intensive work wherever either 
is needed, and to follow up the work after average weight is gained and 
the child leaves the class. But how one hates to read that "the child 
should be required to bring to the class a record regarding his meal 
times, the time spent at meals, hours for going to bed and getting up," 
and "a record of what he eats .... for a week!" Such a record, 
if accurate has an obvious value, but only the exceptionally skilled and 
sensible can handle so delicate a matter without offense against good 
taste and good manners. 

The plan includes a description of charts, summaries, records, possible 
speakers, sources of material, organizations that may be useful, possible 
cost; an adaptation of the scheme to rural conditions which is not only 
valuable for its avowed purpose, but full of exceedingly valuable psy- 
chology which any nutrition worker should ponder. One is warningly 
reminded of the now historic "Government Lady," whom Anna Maria 
Sophia Jones (who was really nothing but skin and bones, if you remem- 
ber her) found it necessary to silence with a hatchet, just because she 
lacked this sort of psychological knowledge. 

If this brief discussion has given the readers of the Journal any idea 
of the plan discussed, it will be e\'ident to them that it not only provides 
a remarkably definite and valuable scheme for fighting malnutrition 
throughout the country, a plan approved and backed by most of the 
leaders in nutrition work from coast to coast, but that it most emphati- 
cally offers to the home economics women of the country an immediate 
extension of their duties and privileges. For several years we have been 
hearing from our leaders that we were at the turning of the ways; that 
a radical change in direction, method, and subject matter was immedi- 
ately called for. In the duller of us, the result has sometimes been a 
mental condition resembling that of a certain class inpsychology,in which 
the eminent professor used to say: "Yes; that is true. But it is not just 
what I have in mind. What is that. Miss X?" This plan focuses our 
gropings, as, indeed, not a few of our leaders have been trying to focus 
them. Here is one perfectly definite thing that we know needs to be 
done. To be sure, it can be done without us, but only with great loss of 
time and momentum. Home economics teachers are scattered rather 
thickly over the country. They ought to be available for a pivotal 
position in the great movement which this plan will surely stimulate. 
Are they prepared for it? 

If the teacher of home economics is inaccurate, superficial, hazy in 
her knowledge of health; if she does not realize that she is only a small 



444 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

part of the whole group engaged in this work, if she cannot work out her 
relation with social worker, doctor, nurse, grade-teacher, and the rest, 
the work will go on without her help. The campaign will then, for some 
time, at least, lose enormously, and home economics as a whole will 
have lost a tremendous opportunity. 

If home economics women are to make the most of the opportunity, 
they not only should be nutrition experts in the actual campaign, but 
they should be prepared to teach the grade teachers what they need 
to know about food and nutrition in relation to health, and to plan 
suitable courses for all normal school teachers, for the plan demands that 
much of the preventive work shall be done by the grade teachers who 
must, of course, have specialists at hand to keep them up to date in these 
special subjects. 

Many schools of home economics have, for some years, threatened to 
do just what we should do now : offer straight food or nutrition majors, 
revamping food courses so that their bearing upon health is constantly 
evident; giving more definite health teaching; offering more courses 
which can be taken by graduates to bring them up to date in subject 
matter and method and into line with this movement and others ; above 
all, following up their alumnae, and helping them to find their right 
speciality and to go as far in it as they are able, thus training a large 
group of leaders in the many lines which constantly look to home 
economics women for leadership. 

Ruth Wheeler, 
The University of Iowa. 

The Metric System. An organized attempt is being made to further 
the legal adoption of the metric system of weights and measures in the 
United States. This effort is largely the work of the American Metric 
Association in conjunction with the Metric Committee of the American 
Chemical Society. During the past year the Metric Committee has 
broadcasted information in regard to metric standardization through 
various scientific journals^- and through letter communications and 
questionnaires to colleges, universities, and technical firms. A copy of 
the Senate bill, " To fix the metric system of weights and measures as the 
single standard of weights and measures for certain uses," introduced 
last year by Senator Ladd, is to be found in Science} 

■ Science, 55, 232 (March 3, 1922). 

^Jour. hid. and Eng. Chem., 14, 332 (.AprU, 1922), also p. 421 (May, 1922). 

= Science, 54, 628 (Dec. 23, 1921). 



1922] EDITORL4L 445 

For teaching purposes in almost any scientific field, the metric system 
is in such constant and exclusive use that the proposed measure would 
be welcomed. However, in the world of trade the situation is not by 
any means so prejudiced in favor of metric units. Naturally a change, 
invoKang so much as the proposed one does, is receiving its share of 
criticism and opposition. To answer the objections of its opponents a 
"Summary of Arguments in Favor of Further Adoption of the Metric 
System" has been prepared by a special committee appointed by the 
Chamber of Commerce of the United States. The three sections of the 
summary quoted here indicate the convincing character of the whole. 

"1. The metric system of weights and measures is now firmly estab- 
lished as an international system, either through its legal adoption, or 
its exclusive or permissive use for standards, by the principal nations of 
the world. Its more general use in the United States is therefore ad- 
vocated to promote greater international uniformity, aad in the hope, if 
that be accomplished, that other English-speaking peoples would follow 
the lead of this country. 

"2. The basic simplicity of the system, with its few units, as the meter, 
liter, gram, with decimal subdivisions, makes both teaching and learning 
easy; and, in trade, makes billing and computation simple. During the 
period of transition, when for a time there would be more active dual 
relations than at present, conversion would be almost automatic through 
the use of tables of equivalents. 

"3. The relative international popularity of the two major systems in 
use is shown by the number of nations which in recent years have adopted 
the metric system, while none has formally adopted the British-American 
system, although in population the two groups are about equal. (Since 
1914, Poland, Latvia, Russia, Japan, Haiti, and Esthonia have become 
metric.)" 

Sybil Woodruff. 

Maria Willett Howard Milliard. "Miss Howard," as she was 
called during most of her professional life, was born in Braintree, Massa- 
chusetts. She received her formal education at Thayer Academy and at 
the Boston Cooking School, but all her life she kept the habit of study. 
After a somewhat varied teaching experience, she became an instructor 
in the Boston Cooking School which in the nineties supplied many 
teachers and workers of wide influence in domestic science. Later she 
was chosen its head. 



446 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

In 1903 the Boston Cooking School was taken over by Simmons 
College, and in 1904 Mrs. Hilliard began her actual teaching there. 
She was largely responsible for planning and equipping its present 
laboratories, for establishing the Foods work in the Department of 
Household Economics, and for relating it to other subjects. 

Besides her actual teaching she had a long and varied connection with 
the Women's Educational and Industrial Union of Boston, was a trustee 
of the Proctor Settlement, Proctor, Vermont, did war food conservation 
work under the National Civic Federation and through it organized the 
Boston Bureau of Household Occupation. 

Mrs. Hilliard was a woman of wonderful personality; she was gentle, 
charming, gay, tactful, but forceful and plucky. She had a rare ability 
to arouse in all who came in contact with her an honest desire to do the 
best that was in them and to equip themselves successfully. Teachers 
who worked with her, students whom she taught and whose interests 
she shared, co-workers in anything in which she was interested, worked 
with a will, not consciously to please her but because the things she 
suggested and shared seemed right and good. She was particularly 
wise in securing the cooperation of others in adjusting the practical 
cooking of the older schools, in which she taught, to the more scientific 
attitude of a later day. 

But that for which Mrs. HiUiard will be longest remembered was her 
unending helpfulness. Her real joy in life was in doing for others. In 
spite of frail health, tragic personal losses, and a busy life, she was 
always glad to see her friends, to talk over problems and accomplish- 
ments, and to give the helpful word or real service which would make 
them better and happier in their future lives. Truly she still lives in the 
men and women she has taught and cheered. 



OPEN FORUM 

Examinations in High School Food Courses. When the edict went 

out from the superintendent's office that thereafter semester examina- 
tions would be required in all high school subjects, the question at once 
arose as to what form the home economics examinations should take in 
order to be of any real value. The old memory questions over the sub- 
ject matter were, of course, out of the question. However, it seemed 
worth while, first, from the standpoint of the students, to develop some 



1922] OPEN FORUM 447 

types of examinations which should genuinely test their ability to draw 
on the experience gained over a half year's work, in the solving of new 
problems. Second, such examinations might well prove a test as to how 
our own aims, so bravely set down on paper, were actually working out. 
We submit our plans for discussion. 

Examinations in the ninth and tenth grades included both written and 
practical tests. The ninth grade course as a whole centers upon the 
needs of a hypothetical family in the community. The foods course 
is based upon meal planning and preparation for this family, involving 
the main factors of body needs, cost, time, and facility of preparation. 
The work of food preparation involves, besides the principles of cookery, 
the making and adaptation of "patterns" in place of recipes. The 
questions over this course were designed then to test the students' 
ability to think through some ordinary situations, forming their conclu- 
sions upon their experiences throughout the course. The following 
questions will serve as types: 

1. Mary learned to make baking powder biscuits at school, using Ic 
flour. Supply the correct proportions of other ingredients. At home she 
found only sour milk. How could she change her pattern? 

2. In the following sentences, underscore the words which make the 
statement true, giving a reason in each case. 

a. Potatoes should be put on to cook in (hot, cold, boiling) water. 

b. If I were buying meat for a stew, I would ask for (rib, porterhouse, 
plate, round). 

3. Supply a salad appropriate for the completion of each of the follow- 
ing menus. Give reasons for your choice. 

For practical tests over this course we give frequent home problems in 
meal planning and preparation. At first, the home problems are care- 
fully planned with the teacher after the girls have consulted with their 
mothers. Later a girl makes her own plan and brings to the class a 
report of her problem which has been based in general upon the factors 
already given, but which must necessarily be adapted to her own family 
group. A note from the mother, often with valuable comments upon 
various phases of the girl's work, accompanies each report. 

In the tenth grade we give another type of practical test. The course 
throughout the fall and winter includes the study of marketing and the 
complete responsibility for the school cafeteria. Each girl serves as 
student manager for a period of two or three weeks, working at first in 
close touch with the teacher, and, at last, using her experience gained in 
planning, buying, accounting, and general oversight, in assuming full 
charge for a few days. 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

In the spring the lunch room is closed, and each girl is responsible for 
the planning, marketing, and preparation of a series of meals at a cer- 
tain cost. The students worked out a daily score card, scoring them- 
selves as to menu, organization of work, housekeeping, flavor of food, 
serving, and hospitality. At the close of the series, summaries are 
prepared by the students, showing cost per person per meal, average 
cost per person, amounts spent for different classes of foods expressed 
in percentages of the total amounts spent for all food. 

We believe that this type of examination, the combination of written 
and practical tests, has demonstrated the amount of usable equipment 
obtained by the student. 

Marcia Elizabeth Turner, 

Teacher Training DepL, 
Iowa State College. 

Table Service. During the past few years, and especially since the 
war, our high school and college courses in table service have been 
severely criticised. The criticisms have been just in many cases. The 
formal types of service have been taught to girls who have no waitresses 
in their homes and probably never will have in the new homes that they 
establish. If 95 per cent or more of American homes are without hired 
help, is it wise to spend all of the limited time devoted to table service 
on the serving of meals with a waitress? 

Is any time spent on such service justified? And if so, how much? 
Nearly every housewife either gives or assists at formal meals or parties, 
helps with banquets or church suppers, or occasionally takes a meal 
at a hotel or large restaurant. At such times some knowledge of formal 
service is valuable. It gives poise and a feeling of ease which is essential 
to a gracious hostess, or a well bred guest. The question then remains, 
how much time should be devoted to formal serving? The old classi- 
cal courses in table service in which meals were served a la Russian, Eng- 
lish, and Compromise, are undergoing a metamorphosis. How much 
of these should be retained in our new courses? 

At the practice meals served in connection with table SQrvice courses 
who should be guests? Should the class be expected to entertain any 
chance visitors to the school whenever they might come, or should an 
invitation come from the class when they are ready to extend such 
hospitability? 

The tendency, too, is to invite outside guests only to the more formal 
meals, thus giving them an erroneous view of the kind of training the 



1922] OPEN FORUM 449 

class is receiving, and giving the class a wrong conception of the kind of 
entertainment that should be provided for guests. A certain doctor 
had evidently been entertained at such meals for he gave as the great 
benefit to be derived from home economics training that the girls would 
learn just what costume a maid should wear upon every occasion! 

Any one interested in a course in table service planned with these 
points in mind, may have a copy by writing to the address below. Dis- 
cussion and criticism will be welcome. 

Amy Bloye, 
Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind. 

Community Clothing Centers. For several years the Home 
Economics Extension Service in Pennsylvania has been studying the 
clothing problems of the women in the state. Our beginnings were 
through work with the girls and one- or two-day meetings among women, 
but these did not give time for the definite instructions needed. Last 
year we decided to try out a few clothing centers. These centers cover 
a period of two weeks of two sessions a day for at least five days a week, 
with five or six hours a day of supervised work. Two trained clothing 
workers are in charge, and the plan of the work is as follows: 

The group contains at least twelve women who furnish the room, 
sewing machines, cutting tables, ironing board and irons, and their 
personal equipment. 

The first problem is the fitting of a plain shirtwaist pattern. The 
women are divided into groups, and a fitting demonstration is given to 
each group, showing where the lines of a pattern belong and how to meet 
the individual differences in form. The women in charge are equipped 
with paper patterns in all the standard sizes so that each woman can 
cut the waist and two tj^es of sleeve from unbleached muslin. They 
then work in twos, fitting each other according to directions given in 
the demonstration. This fitting is carefully supervised and no important 
step taken until it has been approved by the supervisor. All the fitting 
lines in these patterns are carefully marked. A waist can be cut and 
put together without fitting if these lines are followed. The women 
are taught how to use these patterns for underwear, plain shirtwaists, 
plaited and tucked waists, long-waisted dresses, and one piece dresses. 

They then choose a garment to make which is suited to their in- 
dividual ability and are shown how to take each step in making it. 
They are encouraged to bring in any individual problem. Some of the 



450 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

types of garments, new and remodelled, and the demonstrations given 
in helping to solve problems may prove interesting. 

Types of new garments: Underwear, shirtwaists, smocks, house dresses, 
gingham dresses, wool skirts, serge dresses, silk dresses, wool jersey 
dresses, wool jersey jumpers, children's clothes, underwear, dresses, 
coats, boy's suits, men's shirts. 

Types of remodelled garments: Children's clothes made from adult 
gannents, combination dresses from silk and wool dresses, wool dresses 
from old suits, one-piece wool dresses from old fifteen gored skirts. 

Types of problems solved through demonstrations: Selection of material, 
selection of patterns, making of correct seams and seam finishes, hanging 
skirts, adjusting sleeves, making pockets for different garments, front, 
facing of middy and putting on collar, correct plackets, collars, simple 
decorations. 

Each woman is given blanks to be filled out, one to be handed in at 
the close of the center, and the second after two or three months. By 
means of these we are keeping a record of work done at the centers and 
later work done as a result of the center. 

This is a real piece of community work. One of the very gratifying 
results has been that the women have realized how much it means to 
get together and help each other. To date, more centers have been 
requested, by women of other communities who have heard of the work, 
than can be taken care of in a year with our present number of workers. 
Two of our workers have conducted clothing centers, meeting for an 
entire day once a week, on the same general plans as outlined above. 

M. Jane Newcomb, 
Pennsylvania State College. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The Newer Knowledge of Xutrilion. By 
E. V. McCoLLUM. New York: The 
Jlacmillan Company, 2d edition, revised 
and enlarged, 1922, pp. 449. $3.80. 
This "rewritten" edition of "The Newer 
Knowledge of Nutrition" is one of several 
notable books on nutrition which have come 
from the press this year. One of the excel- 
lent features of the book is the comprehensive 
review of the e.xperimental work under- 
taken during the past twenty years, from 
which has been evolved the biological method 
of food analysis to supplement chemical 
aiulysis. The author has traced the de- 
velopment of our knowledge of nutrition 
from the time when protein and calories were 
considered all suiEcient, and when a "bal- 
anced ration" referred to the ratio between 
protein and engery producing foods, to the 
present, when a balanced ration includes 
not only protein of high biological value, 
but fine adjustments in the relative propor- 
tions of energy producing foods, protein, the 
inorganic elements, and essential vitamins. 
So admirable a treatment of the subject was 
possible only because of the author's wide and 
varied experience in nutrition investigations. 
The first five chapters of the book cover 
the historical development of our knowledge 
of the nutritional requirements for growth 
and maintenance, as it has been derived from 
animal feeding e.xperiments. Then follows a 
description of the dietary properties of many 
individual food stuffs, commonly used in the 
North Temperate Zone, the keynote of this 
discussion being the importance of using 
proper combinations of foods. 

In the succeeding chapters, the e.xperi- 
mental evidence is presented, establishing 
a causal relation between the so-called 
deficiency diseases^ xerophthalmia, beri-beri, 
and scurvy, and a lack in the diet of specific 
chemical substances which are commonly 
designated as fat-soluble A, water-soluble 
B, and water-soluble C. The meager facts 
known concerning the chemical nature of 
these substances are also included. Pellagra 
and rickets, the two other diseases in which a 



defective diet is incriminated as a causal 
factor, are described in detail. A summary 
of the voluminous literature on rickets, in 
particular that of the past two or three years, 
is to the writer of this review one of the most 
interesting chapters of the book. 

"The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition" 
is of special value to Home Economics 
teachers because it makes the application 
of laborator>' experience to practical dietetics. 
In the final chapters the author emphasizes 
the necessity of making nutrition one of the 
major aspects of all health teaching. 

From his study of dietary habits of 
various groups of people, he is convinced that 
there is a relation between quality of the diet 
and physical excellence of the people. The 
author has accumulated considerable evi- 
dence to support his claims that lowered 
resistance to infections, lack of vigor, and 
defective bone and tooth formation, are 
frequently sub-acute forms of the "deficiency 
diseases." 

Elizabeth W. Miller, 
Iowa Stale College of Agriculture. 

Health Education and the Nutrition Class. A 
Report of the Bureau of Educational 
Experiments of New York City. Descrip- 
tive and Educational Sections by Jean 
Lee Hunt, Studies of Height, Weight 
and Mental Measurements by Bltord J. 
Johnson, Report on Physical Examina- 
tions by Edith M. Lincoln. New York: 
E. P. Dutton & Co., 1921, pp. 281. $3.50. 
This book is frankly a detailed description 
of the methods employed and results obtained 
in a limited experiment at Public School 
Number 64, INfanhattan, "to determine how 
far a school can successfully employ the 
nutrition class procedure, and in particular 
how far the procedure itself can be expected 
to reinforce the school's general program of 
health education." It is not a book that 
carries us from page to page with wrapt 
interest but demands strict attention to 
follow its data and conclusions. Those 
who are especially interested in the nutrition 
451 



452 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



problem will find this piece of research 
stimulating. 

The concluding chapter on "Interpreta- 
tions and Recommendations for an Educa- 
tional Program" will bear reading by all those 
who are struggling to perfect a health educa- 
tion program for the school child. The 
authors stand firmly for a positive health 
program and state "that health education 
must be rendered susceptible of evaluation 
is the challenge of the nutrition class to the 
school." 

From their studies the following conclu- 
sions are reached: 

"Gains have been largely dependent on 
initial physical status and proportionate to 
the relatively superior or inferior condition 
of the individuals considered. 

"Gains have been largely influenced by 
the technique employed for enlisting coopera- 
tion from the children. 

" Other conditions being equal, gains have 
been in direct proportion to the influence 
exerted on the home and the resulting 
parental cooperation. 

"Gains appear to have been appreciably 
increased when favorable conditions directly 
affecting the nutritional processes have been 
introduced within the school environment." 

A very important point considered in the 
concluding chapter is that of the community 
program for health education. "The success 
of the school program of health education 
is dependent on a serious program of educa- 
tion in the community." This book, to- 
gether with several others along the same 
line which have recently appeared, affords 
us considerable valuable data upon which 
we should be able to rear a more enduring 
structure of health education. 

Richard A. Bolt, M.D., 
Amer. Child Ey^iene Assn. 

Quantity Cookery: Cooking and Menu Plan- 
ning for Large Numbers. By Lenore 
Richards and Nola Treat. Boston: 
Little Brown & Co., 1922, pp. 200. $2.00. 
Perhaps there is no subject about which 
there has been so little written, and yet there 
are few subjects for which the demand for 



information is so great, as the subject of 
quantity cooking, and institution manage- 
ment. The institution administrators of the 
country should welcome this book as a valu- 
able addition to their working libraries, for 
it is practical and deals with subjects which 
come into the everyday life of every institu- 
tion. 

The first chapter deals with the principles 
underlying the planning of menus for large 
numbers. Many practical suggestions are 
given for the planning of menus for cafe- 
terias and tea rooms, and a helpful list of 
foods is given for menu making. There are 
also seasonal charts of food for winter, spring, 
summer, and fall. These charts are alto- 
gether a new idea for cook books designed for 
feeding large numbers of people. 

Suggestive and popular food combinations 
are presented. The methods of using left- 
overs, meats and vegetables, dairy products 
and eggs, breads, fruits, and jams, wiU 
appeal to a large number of our institutional 
workers, especially to the superintendents 
who are always concerned with the problem 
of waste. Take, for instance, the bread 
waste, the bread crusts, the dry bread which 
is left over. The suggestions in this book 
along that line should be very useful to many 
of the dietitians who are serving large 
numbers of people. 

Catering is not forgotten. A practical 
form for taking catering orders is given, and 
there is suggested a well organized plan of 
procedure which should be a guarantee of 
satisfaction to guests and to the catering 
department. 

Over one hundred pages are devoted to 
recipes for institutional use. The number of 
servings and the amount per serving, which 
is valuable information to be attached to an 
institutional recipe, are also indicated. 

The last chapter of the book deals with the 
table of weights and measures. 

Taking the book altogether, we term it a 
practical, usuable book, a valuable contribu- 
tion to the meager institutional literature. 
Mabel C. Little, 
University oj Wisconsin. 



19221 



BOOKS AND LITERATtTRE 



453 



School Xeedlerxork. By Olu-e C. Hapgood. 
Revised and largely rewritten by Ella J. 
Spooner. Boston: Ginn & Company, 

1922, pp. 151. S.84. 

This book was first copyrighted in 1892. 
The present edition has been very largely 
rewritten and rearranged. 

Although originally planned as a course of 
study in sewing, in this new edition "no 
attempt is made to offer a course in clothing. 
It is assumed that the course for the school 
is prescribed with the desired emphasis on 
selection, cost, and suitability of clothing. 
. , . . This book has a different purpose. 
The e.xperienced worker often forgets the 
many stages through which the beginner 
must pass in the learning process and the 
help that is needed along the way. It is 
with these details for the beginner that this 
book has always been concerned." 

There are chapters devoted to tools for 
sewing, stitches used in plain sewing, orna- 
mental stitches, processes of construction, 
mending, the sewing machine, suggestions 
for application of stitches and construction 
processes in making simple garments, some 
notes on cloth and tools carried over from the 
supplement of the original teacher's edition, 
and an index. 

The subject matter has been brought up 
to date and some new material has been 
added. This includes the chapter on the 
sewing machine which is as complete as any 
discussion of this topic to be found in cloth- 
ing te.xts but which is not illustrated. The 
garment construction section is also new 
and includes new problems and directions for 
simple drafting of the patterns to be used. 

Inasmuch as no attempt is made to out- 
line a cour.se of study, a logical, rather than 
a psychological, arrangement of contents has 
been followed. New and up-to-date illus- 
trations would have added considerably to 
the attractiveness of the book. 

Ethel L. Phelps, 
Unhersily of Minnesota. 

Health in Home and Town. By Bertha M. 

Brown. Boston: D. C. Heath & Co., rev. 

ed. 1922, pp. 326. 

The revised edition of this book is prac- 
tically the same as the original publication in 



1912. Indeed it is so nearly the same, that 
the index still refers us to p. 297 for a. dis- 
cussion of the license system, which is the 
only topic dropped out in this issue of the 
book. There are but five additions, and no 
replacements in the reference list of books for 
teachers despite the very productive years 
from 1912 to 1922. There are no changes 
in the te.xt until p. 296, when two pages 
devoted to the old license system are replaced 
by an equal amount of space given to pro- 
hibition. Then follow thirteen new pages 
of text, which complete the revision changes 
made; these are devoted to the recent 
health movements, including such topics as 
school clinics, medical inspection, malnutri- 
tion, and the girl and boy scout organizations 
none of which are considered of sufficient 
importance to be included in the index! 

There are certain corrections which 
should appear in a 1922 text: these include 
an up-to-date discussion of pasteurization 
of milk (p. 172), the omission of the ineffi- 
cient household charcoal filters (p. 195), an 
increase over 1912 in the rent and building 
rates, a substitution of chemical for electrical 
methods in the prophecy concerning water 
purification, and the newer methods of dis- 
ease prevention, especially to.xin-antitoxin 
treatment for diphtheria. 

There are, however, many good things 
true of this text. The type and paper are 
good, the illustrations are varied, and the 
text includes a rich variety of topics of 
interest. The author has the power of 
briefly describing situations or processes in a 
way that compels visualization. 

Jean Broadhdrst, 
Teachers College, New York City. 

Talks to Mothers. The Maternity Center 
Association, 370 Seventh Ave., New York 
City, announces the publication of a series of 
twelve "Talks to Mothers" for the benefit of 
women in all parts of the country. This is 
an attempt to undertake on a national scale 
to impress women with the vital importance 
of complete maternity care. 

The scope of the pamphlets is suggested 
by their titles: "Life's Richest Offering," "A 
Message to Husbands and Wives, too," 
"The Growing Life," "Keeping up Appear- 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

ances," "Watch for Nature's Signals," of her research work at Teachers College 

"Preparation for the Newcomer," "Getting has been added to the "loan" papers in the 

Ready for the Great Event," "The Day your Journal Office. It outlines in detail a 

Baby Comes," "The Lying-in Period," course in selected units and includes a 

"Starting Baby Right," "After care of bibliography and sources of illustrative 

the Mother," "The Foundation of Child material. It will be loaned on receipt of 

Life." 10 cents. 

It is planned to distribute the pamphlets Stored Food Record. Blanks for recording 

to a great extent through nursing and stored food in the home have been prepared 

public health organizations which are by Lottie Milam, Montana State College, 

closely in touch with local conditions in their Bozeman. The cards are intended for use 

own communities. One set, postage prepaid, in keeping a record throughout the year; 

25 cents, 50 sets $10.00. Special rates for as an indicator of the amount of home grown 

larger orders. and home canned or cured foods as com- 

An Extension Course for Homemakers. pared with those purchased; and as an 

An article compiled by Bess Smenner as part analysis of the diet of the family. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture: 
American Moles as Agricultural Pests and Fur Producers. Farmer's Bull. 1247. 
The BoU WerM Problem. Methods of Reducing Damage. Farmer's Bull. 1262. 
The Care of Leather. Farmer's Bull. 1183. 

Meade Cotton an Upland Long Staple Variety Replacing Sea Island. Bull. 1030. 
Methods oj Manufacturing Potato Chips. Bull. No. 1055. 
The Preparation of an Edible Oil from Crude Corn Oil. Bull. 1010. 

Relation of Initial Temperature to Pressure, Vacuum, and Temperature Changes in the Con- 
tainer during Canning Operations. Bull. 1022. 
Self Service in the Retailing of Food Products. Bull. 1044. 
Sewage ami Sewerage of Farm Homes. Farmers' Bull. 1227. 
Status and Results of Boys and Girls Club Work. Northern and Western States. Dept. 

Circ. 192. 
Studies on the Clarification of Unfermented Fruit Juices. Bull. 1025. 
Volume Variation in Bottled Foods. Bull. 1009. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education : 
Equipment and Rooms for Home Economics Departments. Home Economics Circ. 11. 
Preparation of Teachers of the Social Studies for the Secottdary Schools. Bull. 1922, No. 3. 
Present Status of Home Economics Education. Home Economics Circ. 10. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Child Labor atui the Work of Mothers in Oyster and Shrimp Canning Communities on the Gulf 

Coast. Bureau Publication No. 98. 
Industrial Home Work of Children. Bureau Publication No. 100. 
Promotion of the Welfare and Hyeiene of Maternity and Infancy. Bureau Publication No. 95. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Women's Bureau: 
Negro Women in Industry. Bull, of the Women's Bureau, No. 20. 
Women in Georgia Industries. Bull, of the Women's Bureau, No. 22. 



1922J BIBLIOGR.\PHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 455 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

The Acid-Base Balance in Animal Nutrition. III. The Effect of the Addition of Alkalies 
to the Ration on the Growth and Well Being of Suine. Further Data on Acid Feeding. 
Iowa Agr. Expt. Sta. Res. BuU. 71. 

The Child's Day. By Mary Swartz Rose and Geraldine Gorton. Technical Education 
Bulletin, No. 40. Teachers College, Columbia University. 

2'he Colorimetric Hydrogen Ion Determination as a Means of Studying Biological Changes in 
Dairy Products. Mich. Sta. Tech. Bull. 52. 

Does Carbon Dioxide in Carbonated Milk and Milk Products Destroy Bacieriaf Illinois 
State Circ. 256. 

Equipment for Teaching Home Making in Texas High Schools. By Jessie W. Harris. Bul- 
letin l-!0. State Board for Vocational Education, .Austin. 

Good Teeth. U. S. Public Health Service. Reprint No. 707 from the Public Health Reports. 

Historic Costumes. Dry Goods Economist, 239 W. 39th St., New York City. 

Home Economics Extension Service in Illinois. By Juliet Lita Bane. Circ. No. 248. Uni- 
versity of Illinois, Urbana. 

Hospital Administration and the Training of Hospital Executives. Report of the Committee 
on the Traming of Hospital Executives, 22 East Ontario St., Chicago. 

Hovt the Farmer can Save his Sweet Potatoes and Ways of Preparing them for the Table. Ala- 
bama Tuskegee Sta. Bull. 38. 

How Wcnnen's Organizations may help in Americanization Work. U. S. Dept. of Labor, 
Bureau of Naturalization. 

Investigations in fhe Artificial Feeding of Children. Iowa Univ. Studies, Child Welfare I, 
No. 5. 

Model Plant for the Manufacture of Gas. (Chart and Description.) Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, Washington, D. C. 

The Preschool Nutrition Class. American Medical Assn., .' ' ^r. ' nrbom St., Chicago. 

Principles Involved in the Preservation of Fish by Salt. V. S. Ik. ommerce. Bur. Fisheries 
Doc. 919. 

Studies in City Milk Dislrlhutuvi. jNIich. Sta. Spec. Bull. 111. 

Vitamins and the Daily Diet. Ark. Sta. BuU. 176. 

Wealth, Annual Income and the Occupational Classification of the American Ptuple. (Chart) 
Samuel S. Wyer, Conrulting Engineer, Hartman Bldg., Columbus, Ohio. 

Wheat, Flour, aiul Bread. Ohio Sta. BuU. 350. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Food and Nutrition 

Anderson, R. J., and Kulp, W. L. A Study of the MetaboUsm and Respiratory Exchange 
in Poultry during Vitamine Starvation and Polyneuritis. J. Biol. Cliem., 1922, 52: 
69-89. 

Barr, D. P., Cecil, R. L., and DuBois, E. F. Clinical Calorimetry XXXII. Temperature 
Regulation After the Intravenous Injecrion of Proteose and Typhoid \'accine. Arch. 
Int. Med., 1922, 29: 608-634. 

Bassett, S. H., Holt, E., and Santos, F. O. The Influence of Mcit on Physical EBadency. 
Am. J. Physiol., 1922, 60: 574-577. 

Blatherwick, N. R., and Long, M. L. The Utilization of Calcium and Phosphorus of Vege- 
tables by Man. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 125-131. 



456 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Bosworth, A. W., Wilder, H. K., Blanchard, M. E., Brown, E. W., and McCann, M. F. 
Studies in Infant Feeding XVU. A Bacteriochemical Study of the Acid Stools Ex- 
creted by Breast-fed and Bottle-fed Infants. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 
323-337. 

Brown, M. E. Nebraska Hot Lunch Clubs. Nalion's Health, 1922, 4: 44. 

Bryce, P. H. Report of Committee on Cold Storage. Am. J. Pub. Health, 1922, 12: 382-385. 

Cecil, R. L., Barr, D. P., and DuBois, E. F. Clinical Colorimetrj'. XXXI. Observations 
on the MetaboUsm of Arthrites. Arch. Int. Med., 1922, 29: 583-607. 

Clark, G. L., and ]Mann, W. A. A Quantitative Study of the Adsorption in Solution and 
at Interfaces of Sugars, Dextrin, Starch, Gum Arabic and Egg Albumin and the Mechan- 
ism of Their Action as Emulsif>'ing .Agents. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 157-182. 

Coleman, W., Barr, D. P., and DuBois, E. F. Clinical Calorimetry XXX. Metabolism 
in Erysipelas. Arch. Int. i!cd., 1922, 29: 567-582. 

Congdon, L. A. The Army Ration and Its Relation to the Height and Weight of Soldiers 
in Army Cantonments. Military Surgeon, 1921, 48: 569-580. 

Dakin, H. D. The Action of Muscle Tissue on Fumaric, Maleic, Glutaconic and Malic 
Acids. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 183-189. 

Daniels, Amy L. Fighting Malnutrition in Iowa Rural Schools. Nation's Health, 1922, 
4:319,320. 

Evans, H. M., and Bishop, K. S. Relations Between Fertility and Nutrition 11. Ovulation 
Rhythm in Rats on Inadequate Nutritional Regimen. /. Metabolic Research, 1922, 1: 
335-356. 

Forbes, E. B., Schutz, A. J., Hunt, C. H., Winter, A. R., and Remler, R. F. The Mineral 
Metabolism of the Milch Cow. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 281-315. 

Gerard, R. W. Chemical Studies on Intestinal Intoxication. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 
111-124. 

Goldberger, J. The Relation of Diet to Pellagra. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 1676-1680. 

Gulick, A. A Study of Weight Regulation in the Adult Human Body during Over-Nutrition. 
Am. J. Physiol., 1922, 60: 371-395. 

M iscellaneoiis 

Huddleson, M. P. Red Cross Food Selection Classes. Hasp. Social Sendee, 1922, 5: 26. 
Hull, C. and West, C. J. Doctorates Conferred in the Sciences by American Uiuversities in 

1921, Science, 1922, N. S. 55: 271-279. 
Lewi, M. J. Foot Defectiveness in School Children. Pub. Health Kept., 1921, 36: 44. 
Lindquist, R. M. Studies in an Adult Health Clinic. Hasp. Social Service, 1922, 5: 127-135. 
Lumsden, L. L. Cooperative Rural Health Work of the United States Public Health Service. 

Pi(h. Health Kept., 1921, 36: 2472. 
O'Hara, C. E. Paints and Varnishes in the Hospital. Mod. Hosp., 1922, IS: 253-255. 
Oppenheimer, E. H. and Suaeth, R. A. The Relation between Fatigue and the Susceptibility 

of Rats Toward a Toxin and an Infection. Am. J. Hyg., 1922, 2: 51-66. 
Pearl, R. The Vitality of the Peoples of America. Am. J. Hyg., 1921, 1 : 592-674. 
Record, S.J. Notes on Woods. 5oc»re, 1922, N. S. 55: 266-269. 
Tock.N. C. A Household Mechanics Course. Indus. Arts Ma^., X922, 11: 102-105. 
Watson, F. R. Soundproofing in Buildings with Applications in Hospital Construction. 

Mod. Hosp., 1922, 18: 215-219. 
White, L. Home Hygiene and Care of the Sick. A m. J. Nursing, 1922, 22 : 266, 
Williamson, A. Hospital Cafeteria Here to Stay. Hosp. Management, 1922, 13: 51. 
Works, G. A. New York State Rural Survey. I. Its Organization. Educ. Rev., 1922, 63: 

247-256. 
The Blues in Bluings. Good Housekeeping, 1922. V. 74, No. 4, p. 75. 
The Care of Your Baby. Pub. Health Rept., 1922, 37: 200. 
Infant Mortality in 1921. Pub. Health Rept., 1922, 37: 199. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

To the Editor of the Journal of Home Economics^ 

I am sure that a valuable contribution of the knowledge concerning vitamines could be 
made from Australia. We have in certain dry parts, where small attention is givJn' to 
vegetable grou-ing, a peculiar form of scurN-j'. V'ery little teaching is given on preventive 
measures and verj' little investigation is done, yet I believe that our doctors, if communicated 
with, could make some interesting revelations. 

The need for the trained home economics woman is tremendous. Our country hotels 
have steadily deteriorated since the limitation of drinking hours has forecast their abolition, 
and wage setting for the various classes of waiters, maids, and other help has reduced the staffs. 
As there are seldom other places than the hotels where one may stay overnight the public is 
discontented and grumbling. The Irish have chiefly been in control of the hotels, but for meals 
the Italian and Greek shops are taking their place. As these latter are conspicuous for careless 
methods and doubtful cleanKness, the public is not much better off. There is a bigopeningfor 
respectable, well organized hotels or boarding houses all over the country but especially on the 
better known motor routes. I have been on trips where we never got a clean, wholesome 
meal e.xcept those we cooked by the roadside. 

Here is a golden opportunity for the home economics expert who wishes to spend a profitable 
holiday. She could do much in sbc months and, if given a few letters, she could be put in the 
way at once. We are absolutely at zero in the knowledge of home economics and it is no easy 
task making a start. 



The International Association for the 
Promotion of Child Welfare has recently been 
established in Brussels. The object is to 
centralize aU documentary research work 
bearing upon Child Welfare. The .Associa- 
tion has started the publication of a monthly 
review, The International Record of Child 
Welfare Work, which will publish articles 
on all questions of general or international 
importance relating to Child Welfare, will 
keep its readers abreast of the transactions 
of the various national and international 
congresses dealing with this subject, and of 
lectures and conferences relating thereto. 
The Association also intends to publish, in 
supplementar)^ form, all legislative measures, 
affecting Child Welfare, adopted in every 
country throughout the world. The Inter- 
national Record will be published in English 
as well as French. 

The Association of Teachers of 
Domestic Science of England. The 
annual meeting of this association was held 
at Crane Hall, Liverpool, May 27, Eleanor 
Ralhbone, President, presiding. Guests 
were formally welcomed by the Lord Mayor 
of Liverpool. Miss Rathbone made an 



address on The Relation between the 
Economics of the House and of the 
Nation. 

Helen Atvvater and Emma Winslow of 
the American Home Economics Association 
were asked to speak at the conference but 
neither was able to be present. 

Dr. J. L. Pa ton. High Master, Manchester 
Grammar School, talked on liberal and 
vocational education. Miss Denmark, of 
The County Secondary School, Streatham, 
London, gave the results of a year's experi- 
ence of the Dalton plan. Florence H. 
Laverock of the Department of Education, 
Liverpool Univeristy, talked on Colour and 
Colour Schemes. 

Trips were made by the visitors to 
Domestic Subjects Centers of Liverpool, 
the Training College for Teachers of Domes- 
tic Science, the Nursery Training College, 
and other institutions of special interest to 
them. 

The association publishes the A. T. D. S. 
Magazine, which gives news notes of district 
associations, and discussions of questions 
relating to the work of the Domestic Science 
Mistresses. 



'Extracts from a letter from Ruth Beale who is tr>-ing to establish a School of Home 
Economics at Sidney University. 



458 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



The American Dietetic Association is 

to have its unnual convention in Washing- 
ton, D. C, at the New Willard Hotel 
October 16th, 17th and 18th and on Octo- 
ber 19th, a day's visit and program have 
been planned in Baltimore at Johns Hopkins 
Hospital for those who wish to visit this 
interesting city and famous hospital. 

The program for the meeting is not 
complete as yet. However, those speakers 
who have consented to be on the program 
are as follows: Dr. J. P. Watson, Psycholo- 
gist, Dr. Elliot P. Joslin of Boston, Miss 
Emma Gunther of Teachers' College, 
Columbia University, INIrs. Mary D. Br>-an, 
President of the American Dietetic Associa- 
tion, Mrs. Agnes O'Dea, Johns Hopkms 
Hospital, Miss Breta M. Luther, Cook 
County Hospital, Dr. Ruth Wheeler, 
Professor, Nutrition, Iowa State Medical 
School, and Mrs. Laura M. Piper of New 
York. Major Stimpson will be among the 
speakers on the first day. 

On Tuesday: Dr. Alfred Hess of New 
York, Miss Stewart, assistant dietitian, 
Ann Arbor Hospital, Dr. Leroy E. Parkins, 
assistant superintendent, Peter Bent Brig- 
ham Hospital, Mr. Henry C. Wright of 
New York, Mrs. Mary Swartz Rose of 
Teachers' College, Columbia University, 
New York, Miss L. RayBalderston,Teachers' 
College. Columbia University. 

On Wednesday: Miss Ida Cannon of 
Boston; Miss Lucy Gillett of New York; 
Miss Louise de Plante of Philadelphia; Dr. 
Walter Cannon, Professor of Physiology, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston; Miss 
Lulu Graves, Superintendent, Dietary De- 
partment, Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York; 
Miss Marjory Hulsizer, Dietitian, Barnes 
Hospital, St. Louis, Mo.; Miss Daisy Treen 
of the Women's Educational and Industrial 
Union, Boston; and Miss Mary Lindsey 
of the Grace Dodge Hotel, Washington, D. C. 
Thursday in Baltimore: Dr. E. V. ^Mc- 
CoUum of Johns Hopkins Hospital and Dr. 
William S. McCann of Johns Hopkins. 

A number of special features are being 
planned this year. The Washington dieti- 
tians are arranging for some trips and social 
events and one evening of the meeting will 
be especially interesting as it will be an 
"all-member" program. 



an opportunity for the members of the Ameri- 
can Dietetic Association to attend both 
conferences. 



The American Child Hygiene Associa- 
tion will hold its annual meeting in Washing- 
ton, D. C, October 12 to 14. Tliis wiU give 



A Pupil Dietitian's Course is now offered 
at Walter Reed General Hospital, Washing- 
ton, D. C. The course covers a period of six 
months, during which tune the pupils are 
given practical experience in the various 
messes and in the laboratory. The lectures 
for the Army School of Nursing, beginning 
October first, are open to the students. 
Among these lectures the courses in Diet in 
Disease, Physiology and Anatomy, Commun- 
icable and Occupational Diseases will be 
found of especial value and interest. 

Those entering at this time will be given 
an opportunity to attend some of the meet- 
ings of the American Dietetic Association 
which holds its annual convention in Wash- 
ington October 15-18. Arrangements will 
be made for pupils to visit the various bureaus 
of interest in the Department of Agriculture, 
as the Bureau of Chemistry, the Bureau of 
Standards, and the Office of Home Eco- 
nomics. 

Quarters, subsistence, and laundry are 
furnished, and a nominal salary of fifteen 
dollars a month is paid. 

An outline of the course and application 
blanks will be sent upon request. 

Ceramic Research. A new ceramic 
laboratory, in which investigative work 
regarding the clays of the Northwest will be 
conducted, is to be installed at the North- 
west Experiment Station of the United 
States Bureau of Mines on the campus 
of the University of Washington at 
Seattle. 

A cooperative agreement has been effected 
between the United States Bureau of Mines 
and the Central of Georgia Railway for an 
investigation by the Ceramic Experiment 
Station, Columbus, Ohio, of the white clay 
and bauxities through central Georgia along 
the raibroad right-of-way. 

Preliminary tests on the effect of low 
calcination temperatures on the colloidal con- 
tent of Georgia white clays have been made. 
By calcining Georgua clay to from 500° to 
600°C. the adsorptive properties were 
reduced to those of the EngUsh china clay, 
witliout materially reducing its plasticity. 

A microscopic examination of the mineral 
constituent of kaolins is being conducted 
at the Ceramic Experiment Station at 
Columbus. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



459 



CO>rNECTICnT 

State Agriculture College. Home 
machinery and equipment, and the home 
management problem were discussed at a 
four-day conference held June 19-22, and 
attended by home demonstration agents, 
state extension directors, leaders, and 
specialists from Massachusetts, Rhode 
Island, and Connecticut, and by represent- 
atives from N^ew Jersey, Vermont, and the 
Washington Extension Office. 

Professors Robb, Gunness, and Knipe, 
professors of rural engineering at Cornell, 
Massachusetts Agricultural College.and Con- 
necticut Agricultural College, respectively, 
ly, were in charge of that part of the program 
devoted to systems of running water, sewage 
disposal, heating, and lighting in rural homes, 
and to practical demonstrations of power 
and hand machinery and equipment. Prof. 
W. W. Chenoweth of Massachusetts Agricul- 
ture College lead a discussion of the pressure 
cooker, its value, and its use in canning and 
in cookery. Demonstrations, exhibits, and 
moving pictures added greatly to the value 
of the discussions. 

Subject matter and methods were 
emphasized on the program. A discussion of 
the unified program in extension work, 
signalized as the outstanding development of 
the year, was opened by Florence E. Ward of 
Washington; Mrs. Frank J. Haynes of 
Massachusetts presented a state project in 
household management as part of this 
unified program; Eleanor Moss, Litchfield 
County, Connecticut, represented the county 
part in the program; and Mrs. Walpole of 
Rhode Island showed how it functions in the 
home. Agnes Harris of Washington sum- 
marized the progress of the project in the 
United States. Directors Willard of ilass- 
achusetts and Baker of Connecticut sum- 
marized the discussion of the unified program 
for extension work and the part of each 
agency in its success. 

Estelle Sprague, state leader of home 
demonstration work in Connecticut, Lucille 



Reynolds, state leader in Massachusetts, 
and Director Baker of Connecticut presided 
at the various sessions. 

This conference reflects the growing inter- 
est in home management as a basic family 
project. 

GEORGI.\ 

The Georgia Home Economics Asso- 
ciation held its annual meeting in Colum- 
bus, April 20-22. Among the speakers on 
the program were Helen Louise Johnson, who 
discussed The Present Day Distribution of 
the Family Income; Clyde Schuman, who 
outlined the Red Cross Nutrition Program; 
and Adsi Field, Peabodv College for Teachers, 
who discussed Apphcations of Recent 
Scientific Investigations to Home Economics. 
The plan of affiliation with the American 
Home Econoniics .Association was presented 
by Miss Field, who is a member of the council 
of the national association. A committee 
was appointed to revise the constitution in 
accordance with the requirements for 
affiliation. 

Epsie Campbell, State Supervisor of 
Vocational Home Economics, in giving the 
report of the field work committee of which 
she is chairman, outlined the aims and idea 
for the teaching of home economics in the 
state. 

The officers of the association, reelected 
for another year, are as follows: President, 
Julia Robertson, South Georgia Normal 
College, Valdosta; Vice-President, Lois 
Dowdle, State CoUegeof Agriculture, Athens; 
Secretary, Clara Lee Cone, Giris High 
School, Atlanta; Treasurer, Bess Baird, 
State Normal School, Athens. 

ILLINOIS 

Illinois Home Economics Association. 
Plans are being made for the second annual 
meeting which will be held in Decatur, 
Friday and Saturday, October 27 and 28. 
This is following out the suggestion made 
at the time of organization last fall that 
meerings should be held alternately in 
Chicago and in some city in the state at large. 



460 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



KENTUCKY 

A State Teachers' Home Economics 
Conference was held at the University of 
Kentucky under the auspices of the Depart- 
ment of V'ocational Education, June 15-21. 
Betsey Madison, Mabel V. Campbell, and 
Maybelle Cornell had charge of the sessions 
dealing with the organization of courses of 
study in home economics and related 
science and art for the grades and high 
school, considering the following points: 
time allowance, aims, suggested units to be 
offered, content of each unit, home work, 
references, illustrative materials, and special 
methods or devices. 

A Clothing Project. As part of their 
class work, the girls in the high school at 
Ashland, with the assistance of their in- 
structor, Mrs. Carrie Baskerville, made a 
complete outfit and additional articles for 
a little girl in a poor family, and a layette 
for a baby in the care of the public health 
nurse. The girls made over their own 
clothes, and bought new materials with 
money they contributed or solicited. 

NEBRASKA 

The College of Agriculture, University 
of Nebraska. "Farmers Fair" is an an- 
nual event planned and carried out entirely 
by the students of the College. They aim to 
show, through exhibits, demonstrations, and 
entertainment, the work of the College to the 
visitors who come from all parts of the state. 
The students in home economics prepared 
exhibits in foods, clothing, and design. \ 
style show put on by the clothing division was 
given as an afternoon party. Students in the 
millinery classes demonstrated the making of 
hats, and the finished products of the 
students were tastefully exhibited. The 
students in the design division demonstrated 
the refinishing of old furniture, and arranged 
a long narrow room to illustrate the possibili- 
ties of changing the appearance of the room 
by a correct arrangement of furniture and 
furnishings. The foods division exhibited a 
week's food requirement for a family of five. 
Visiting children were weighed and measured 
by the nutrition di\'ision, and a group of little 



children entertained the visitors with health 
verses and exercises. 

In the afternoon and evening the home 
economics students presented a pageant play 
of the old fairy story" The Sleeping Princess. " 
The costumes and all accessories of the 
pageant were made by the classes in the 
department. 

During the first semester of summer 
school, the following courses were offered in 
Home Economics ; Clothing Study, Millinery, 
Buying and Selecting Textiles, Clothing 
Design and Economics, Art Structure, Home 
Decoration and Furnishing, Related Science 
Methods, Food Economics, Home Jfanage- 
ment, Home .Agriculture, Home Manage- 
ment House Residence, Newer Methods of 
Teaching Home Economics. 

Boys and Girls Clubs. Two hundred 
and eight members of clubs from all parts of 
Nebraska spent a busy week Jlay 29 to 
June 3. Most of these boys and girls had 
won prize trips as county champions in pig, 
corn, canning, and other clubs. 

The mornings were spent in studying 
various lines of work, such as birds, bugs, 
weather, stock judging, poultry, and per- 
sonal hygiene; the afternoon in making in- 
dustrial trips to various institutions and 
business bouses. The Lincoln Chamber of 
Commerce gave a banquet to the club mem- 
bers and leaders, and the Nebraska Farmer 
gave them a picnic supper and radio concert. 
They spent the last day in Omaha where 
they visited the stock yards and enjoyed a 
banquet served at the Stock Enchange. The 
Omaha Chamber of Commerce provided 
street cars to take all the boys and girls to 
the Union Pacific Shops and to the Iten 
Biscuit Company. 

One of the interesting features of the week 
was the contest between the ten groups who 
put on demonstrations of club business 
meetings. The first prize was awarded to 
the group who gave a pig club business 
meeting such as would be held in August 
when the clubs were making their plans to 
attend the State Fair. 

Nutrition Work. Dr. Hedger comes to 
Nebraska in October and wiU visit seventeen 
counties, giving in every county at least one 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



461 



lecture demonstration on Malnutrition in 
Children. Undenveight children will be 
examined, the daily activities will be talked 
over with the parents, and suggestions will be 
given as to the care of the children for normal 
development. To prepare the counties for 
this work, the Xutrition Specialist and the 
Health Specialist of the Extension Service 
are visiting the counties at least twice before 
Dr. Hedger's coming. Nutrition sUdes are 
shown which contain pictures of Nebraska 
boys and girls who have gained health by 
nutrition work already done in the state. 
Dr. Hedger's score cards are being used with 
success. 

Nutrition Institute. Under the direc- 
tion of Dr. Wolfe of the Lincoln Public 
Schools, Dr. Emerson held an Institute for 
two weeks during July. About eighty 
teachers and nurses registered for this work. 
Five clinics of twenty children each were 
started for Lincoln's undenveight children. 

The Annual State Conference of Voca- 
tional Home Economics Teachers was 
held May 29 to June 2. Thirty home eco- 
nomics teachers attended the conference. 
The general theme of the conference was the 
means of developing greater cooperation 
between the mother and the teacher in the 
teaching of homemaking. Fannie Sims, 
Head of the Department of Home Economics, 
University of South Dakota, spoke to the 
teachers on How Can Related .\rt be made to 
Contribute more \'itally to Preparation for 
Homemaking? L. A. Hartley, State Super- 
visor of Industrial Education, explained his 
method of analysis and synthesis of teaching 
content and showed how it may be applied to 
homemaking. 

Nebraska Home Economics Workers 
attending Columbia this summer are Rose 
Shonka, Supervisor Home Economics, Lin- 
coln Public Schools; Mrs. Kate Kinyon, 
Acting Supervisor Home Economics, Lin- 
coln Public Schools; Gladys Legg, Clothing 
Specialist, Extension Service; Alice Bradt, 
Head of Design Division, Home Economics 
Department, University of Nebraska. 

NEW ENXLAND 

At the Boston Meeting of the N. E. A. 
there were three sessions of special interest to 



Home Economics people. The formal ses- 
sion of the American Home Economics .Asso- 
ciation, arranged by the New England Home 
Economics .Association, was held July 5. 
The general subject of the program was 
The Relation of Home Economics to the Rest 
of the High School Program, and two phases 
were presented : The Responsibility of Super- 
intendents and Principals, by George A. 
Works ; The Responsibility of Supervisorsand 
Teachers, by Edna White. 

Prof. \\'orks pointed out the necessity 
of having principals and supervisors who 
realize the value of home economics and also 
of having definite aims in our home economics 
courses as well as a "comprehensive and 
thorough preparation of teachers who will be 
able to teach in the light of these aims." 
Miss White indicated a tendency on the part 
of the home economics teacher to confine her 
interest too narrowly to her own group of 
students, whereas she should "remember 
that her greatest service may be in the 
courses adapted to the needs of the general 
student group, many of whom may be 
specializing in very different fields. She 
must not fail to appreciate the opportunity 
to give them a greater interest and under- 
standing of home problems as well as a 
broader vision regarding them." 

The discussions showed that there is a real 
appreciation of the fact that the Association 
and all persons who believe that home 
economics has a place of importance in the 
school program must adopt a more active 
attitude. 

Mrs. Calvin called a conference for the 
following day which met at Simmons Col- 
lege, to consider the recent report of the 
N. E. A. Committee on the Reorganization 
of Home Economics in Junior High Schools. 
One session of the Child Hygiene Division 
was devoted to the place of nutrition in the 
health education program. The speakers 
were Dr. Howe of the Forsythe Dental 
Infirmary, Dr. Blood of Simmons College, 
Mary McCormick, Nutrition specialist for 
New York State, and Minnie Murphy of the 
Elizabeth McCormick Memorial, Chicago. 
Simmons College. To meet the require- 
ment or trade experience for vocational 
teachers. Miss Spooner is trying this summer 



462 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



the experiment of teaching dressmaking by 
shop practice. Tlie plan is to offer, to trade 
people and teachers of sewing, shop experi- 
ence under conditions more favorable than 
those of regular business houses. Orders are 
taken and work is planned as nearly as 
possible as in any shop, with this difference, 
that each day there will be one hour of lecture 
and demonstration by the instructor. The 
shop is in charge of Beatrice O. Brown, 
sketcher in the Design Department of 
Wilkin and Adler, New York City. 

NEW MEXICO 

Homemaking in Vocational Classes 
for Spanish American Women. The 

recent closing of the evening class in home- 
making, conducted by Mrs. M. M. Leibold 
at Santa Cruz, marks the end of a remarkably 
successful period of instruction. Mrs. 
Leibold has to her credit 74 lessons. In- 
struction was given two eveings a week, each 
lesson being at least two hours long. 

The instruction in homemaking was 
divided into short unit courses in canning 
and food preservation, elementary sewing 
and textiles, elementary food study and 
cookery, food values and requirements, 
house care, advanced cooker)', advanced 
sewing, care and repair of clothing. Much 
of the work in food preservation was entirely 
new, drying being the only method of 
preservation hitherto used. 

"When we arrived, there would be all the 
women in the neighborhood, gathered to 
watch the process" said Mrs. Leibold, and 
there would also be all the kettles, pans, and 
utensils in the neighborhood, borrowed for 
the occasion. Along with the canning, it was 
essential to stress the need of absolute 
cleanliness. Most of the women wear the 
traditional black shawl. They watched, 
wide-eyed, the operations of the white- 
aproned class." 

The food study and cookery were neces- 
sarily adapted to the conditions and mate- 
rials at hand. Even thus restricted, much 
was accomplished. The work in sewing was 
adapted to the simple needs of the class. As 
the school authorities had set aside no sum 
for supplies, the materials were donated by 



pupils, by public-spirited citizens, and by 
the instructor. 

This is the first work of its kind that has 
been given in the community. Its success is 
established. The demand for it is steadily 
increasing. Mrs. Leibold, who is also 
principal of the Santa Cruz public school, 
has the largest enrollment on record, and the 
people of the community have petitioned 
that she return next year and continue the 
work. 

NEW YORK 

The First Annual Exhibit of Women's 
Activities will be held September 18 to 23 
at the Hotel Commodore, to present to the 
public the products in which women's activi- 
ties have played a conspicuous part. The 
exhibit will be under the auspices of the New 
York League of Business and Professional 
Women. The plans contemplate an exten- 
sive, artistically decorated exhibit, which will 
serve to visualize the important contribution 
of women in practically every avenue of 
daily life. One of the objects is to bring 
before girls the numerous fields which have 
been opened up to them. 

Teaching Laundering. A survey of 
the laundry industry by the Board of Trade 
of Greater New York in cooperation with the 
State Department of Education is part of a 
general campaign undertaken by this organ- 
ization for the establishment of courses in 
"The Science of Laundering" to be given as 
part of the public school system of 
instruction. 

The survey has recommended that the 
Board of Education establish and maintain a 
two-year part-time cooperative course for 
boys, and a one-year part-time cooperative 
course for girls. 

The adoption of such a course of training 
will benefit not only the employee and the 
employer, but also the consuming public, 
who should demand sanitary laundries and 
the preservation of clothing by proper 
washing. 

Buffalo Public Schools. Under the 
direction of Ethel Coan, Director of Domes- 
tic Science for Buffalo, The Information Test 
for the Eighth Grade was used in some of the 
schools of that city with gratifying results. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



463 



This test was worked out last spring at 
Teachers College under the supervision of 
Prof. Anna Cooley. (See Editorial, August 
JorRNAL, page 394.) 

PENNSYLV.ANIA 

The State Educational Department 
is arranging to do some intensive work in 
giving all the geography pupils in the state 
general and detailed informationon the state's 
resources with particular reference to fuels 
and other resources that are directly con- 
cerned with the home. A special book is 
now under preparation, using largely govern- 
mental material, especiallj' the models in the 
Smithsonian Institution, and this book will go 
to all geography teachers in the state. Fuel 
will be intensively discussed and the book 
will abo be placed in the hands of all home 
economics teachers. 

A Home Management Project. The 
senior class of the Department of Home 
Economics, West Philadelphia High School 
for Girls, planned and e.xecuted a practical 
home management problem. 

The organization of the work was placed 
in the hands of a home manager and her 
assistant, each elected by the class for the 
period of the project. They systematized 
the plan into individual and small group 
problems so as to include ever>' phase of home 
management, as follows: 

1. Scheduling and despatching of work 
for a family of nine, eight high school girls 
and one instructor, in a 10 room city house 
for two days, allowing for the allotted time 
required for active participation in school on 
Friday, were carried out by the home man- 
ager and her assistant. 

2. The problem involved the estimation of 
the cost or refinishing and redecorating a 
living-room on the second floor to include 
upholstering three chairs, papering the walls, 
and painting all wood-work. 

3. The market order for the family was 
estimated previous to the day of arrival. 
Additional marketing during the time was 
minimized. 

4. The financing included making the 
the family budget for the period, keeping 
accounts, checking out all funds, and collect- 
ing dues. 



5. The care of the iires included both the 
hot-air furnace and the coal range used for 
cooking. A gas stove in the outside kitchen 
was called into service for the early morning 
breakfast. 

6. .\mount of fuel used for the gas lighting 
was estimated by one girl who was general 
inspector. 

7. On Saturday morning a one-hour 
practical lesson was given in home nursing. 

8. The home manager was responsible for 
checking up all work, and conducting the 
religious services each evening before bed- 
time. 

The cridcism of the entire project was 
submitted by the girl in charge of despatching 
the work. 

SOUTH DAKOTA 

University of South Dakota. One 

of the features of commencement week was 
an e.xhibit arranged by Fannie Sims, 
Professor of Home Economics, and Mrs. 
Edith Abel. The work of the students in the 
classes in clothing design and interior decora- 
tion was featured. 

During the spring session the enrollment 
in the Department of Home Economics more 
than doubled that of the fall. 

WISCONSIN 

ITniverslty of Wisconsin. An exhibi- 
tion of craft work in block printing, tie-and- 
dye work, and batik, done by home economics 
students, was held in Milwaukee Art Insti- 
tute last spring. This was part of the exhibit 
shown earlier in the State Historical Museum 
in Madison. 

Milwaukee-Downer College. On May 
27 the teachers and students from the 
junior and senior classes of the high schools 
of Milwaukee were guests of Milv.-aukee- 
Downer College. The May Day play was 
given on the campus under the hawthorn 
trees, and the Home Economics Department 
arranged an exhibit of the work of the cloth- 
ing and textile classes, and served refresh- 
ments. 

A series of five illustrated lectures on 
cotton, silk, wool, linen, and fur, was given 
during the spring term to students of the 
te.xtiles class by the head of the educational 



464 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



department of the Public Museum. Heads 
of departments of the leading stores gave 
demonstration lectures on rugs, linens, and 
silks. 

A vocational conference was held in May 
to acquaint students with various promising 
fields of work for college women. Gladys 
Meloche, Extension Department, University 
of Wisconsin, spoke on Opportunities in 
Extension Work in Home Economics. 

One of the graduates of the class of 1922 
has accepted a position in the Bureau of 
Chemistry, Washington. Another is em- 
ployed in a hospital laboratory for work 
in food and physiological chemistry. 



Edwin H. Ansel], luncheon manager of 
the New England Telephone and Telegraph 
Company, Boston, died at his home in 
Melrose on March 13. He received his 
early education in Boston and took up the 
trade of interior decorating. Since 1887 he 
had been connected with the New England 
Telephone and Telegraph Company. In 
1914 he was appointed luncheon manager, 
the position including the supervision of 
furnishing the recreation rooms provided 
for the women employees. Those who 
attended the Swampscott meeting last year 
will remember Mr. Ansell's address on the 
Industrial Cafeteria. 

Gudrun Carlson, who has held the 
positions of head of the Department of 
Home Economics at the University of 
South Dakota, and instructor at Skidmore 
and at Teachers College, has been appointed 
Home Economics Specialist in the Institute 
of .American Meat Packers. She will work 
along lines of educational ser\'ice and re- 
search as it pertains to home economics 
questions. 

Mrs. David W. Clark, formerly Eliza 
beth Mann, who has been living on the Crow 
Creek Indian Reservation at Fort Thompson, 
S. D., returned to Teachers College as an 
instructor in Foods and Cookery during the 
summer session. 

Ruetta Day, Assistant Professor of 
Home Economics at the University of South 
Dakota, has resigned from the staff and will 
spend the fall at Teachers College. 



Winifred Stuart Gibbs has been ap- 
pointed Director of the Food Service 
Bureau and Associate Editor of The American 
Food Journal. 

Geraldine Gorton, Head of the Home 
Economics Department of the Masten Park 
High School, Buffalo, New York, spent the 
summer visiting schools on the Pacific coast. 

Ellen Hillstrom of the University of 
Wisconsin has been appointed chairman of 
the art section of the Western Arts Associa- 
tion for the coming year. 

Ola E. Johnston of Paducah, Kentucky, 
M.S. University of Wisconsin, 1922, will 
succeed Betsey Madison as State Supervisor 
of Home Economics Education. 

Mrs. Kate Kinyon, who has been acting 
supervisor of Home Economics in the Public 
Schools, Lincoln Nebr., has accepted a 
position as Supervisor of Home Economics in 
the Denver Schools. 

Hazel Manning, Assistant Professor of 
Home Economics, University of Wisconsin, 
has been elected National President of Omi- 
cron Nu. 

Abby L. Marlatt, Director of Home 
Economics,University of Wisconsin, sailed on 
on the Pittsburgh from Philadelpliia, June 22, 
for a fifteen months' trip around the world. 

Rose Shonka, who has been on a year's 
leave of absence will return next year as 
Supervisor of Home Economics in the public 
schools of Lincoln, Nebr. 

Announcement is made of the marriage of 
Mary B. Stocking to Frank A. Wltcomb, 
in Boston, Monday July tenth. Miss 
Stocking has been .\ssistant Professor of 
Household Management at Simmons College, 
and Mr. Whitcomb is known to the Home 
Economics world as a member of the firm of 
Whitcomb and Barrows. 

Mary B. Vail, formerly of the faculty of 
MiUs College, is now in Japan giving lectures 
at Deshisha School, Kyoto, and other 
colleges. 

Emma Wlnslow, who has spent the past 
winter doing special studying in sociology 
and economics in England, returned to the 
United States in June and was an instructor 
in the summer school at Teachers College. 

Correction. In the report of student 
subscriptions in the .\ugust Journal the 
mistake was made of printing 2 for 12 as the 
number from Framingham Normal. 



Vol. XIV, No. 10 Octobek, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Worlc in Home Economics 

Mary de Gakuo Bryas, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 

Ubs Mary H Abel C. F. Lancwohthy Katharine Fisher Grace G. Denny Katharine Blunt 

Editor of "The Question Box," Amy Daniels 

Associate Editors 

Day Monroe. News 

Edith Barber and MaoRED Weigley, Social Welfare and the Home 
Florence Ward, Extension 

Katharine Blitnt and Sybil Woodruff, Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell and Emma Conley. Education. 
Ruth O'Brien, Textiles 
Mabel Little, Institution Economics 
Elizabeth W. Miller, Bibliography 

CoUaboraiors — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Mathematics Needed in Elementary Clothing Theodosia Tucker Callaway 465 

An Analysis of Textbooks in Clothing and Textiles Ethel L. Phelps 471 

Home Economics Teaching Load Jessie Whilacre 477 

Research in Physiological and Food Chemistry in the Home Economics Laboratory 

Agnes Fay Morgan 486 

Teamwork in the Family Rebecca J. GradwolU 493 

Early English Customs Eleanor F. Wells 496 

Editorial 502 

Mid-year Meeting in Detroit 503 

Open Forum 506 

Books and Literature 509 

News from the Field 513 



The JomtNAL op Houe Ecosoincs is published monthly by'the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by New York Draft. Check. Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS, Xotice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Balttmoee, Md. 

Tki Jodkmal of Hoke Ecomouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co., Chicago; Hochschild, Kohn Si Co.. Baltimore Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



Healflifti 
Reliable 
Eeono 






The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 

ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 



^"0^ 









In writing advertisers, please mention Journal ot Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. XW OCTOBER, 1922 No. 10 

MATHEAIATICS NEEDED IN ELEMENTARY CLOTHING 

THEODOSIA TUCKER CALLAWAY 
Stephens Junior College, Columbia, Missouri 

Since many pupils in elementary clothing classes seem to be handi- 
capped by their inability to handle the mathematics involved, this 
study was undertaken to determine definitely what mathematical 
concepts and processes are used in a course in elementary clothing, 
and the degree of difficulty to which each process is carried. The 
study will be used as a basis for constructing tests and exercises that 
will locate and remove such handicaps. 

The study is based on an examination of Baldt's Clothing for Women, 
the text used in Stephens Junior College to supplement the lectures in 
elementary clothing. A careful examination of the text was made 
and all words and expressions that are distinctly mathematical or that 
imply mathematics, were classified and their frequency determined. 
The standards for determining whether or not a word or expression 
should be considered as mathematical or implying mathematics were 
the principles set forth and used by Lewis W. Williams of the Uni- 
versity of Illinois in a similar study of "The Mathematics Needed 
in Freshman Chemistry."^ The results of this examination are shown 
in the accompanying tables. 

Table I gives the mathematical concepts, a reading knowledge of 
which is necessary for understanding the text. Of the one hundred 
twenty-eight concepts listed, fifty-six or about 42 per cent are distinctly 
geometrical in nature and the rest are arithmetical. 

Table II shows that, with one exception, all the denominate numbers 
used are those with which a girl becomes familiar early in her home 
experience as well as early in her elementary schooling. The use of 
the "head" as a unit of measure will no doubt be new to the girl, but 
its meaning and use is fully explained in the text. This table also 
shows that "long measure" and "United States money" are the two 

' School Srience and ^Mathematics, October, 1921, p. 654. 



466 



THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



most important measures used in elementary clothing, and it is in- 
teresting to note the extensive use of the inch, the moderate use of the 
yard and the entire absence of the foot from the list. 



TABLE I 
Mathematical concepts 

Estimate 2 

Even numbers 2 

Fifth 2 

Figure 1 

First .180 

Five-pointed star 1 

Four-sided 1 

Fourth 8 

Height 20 

Horizontal 15 

Indefinite length 8 

Infinite number 1 

Intersecting lines 6 

Length 132 

Less (minus) 2 

Less than 1 

Line (or lines) 613 

Line AB, etc 12 

Mathematically 1 

Measure 285 

Measurement 9 

Measuring 13 

Middle 7 

Minus 31 

Multiply 5 

Nothing (zero) 9 

Numbers 45 

Numeral 2 

Oblongs 3 

Once 18 

Oval 2 

Pairs 2 

Parallel 21 

Per cent 20 

Percentage 4 

PerpendiciUar 3 

Pivot (center of circle) 3 

Plus 77 

Point 107 

Point A, etc 15 

Points of intersection .... 4 

Primary 2 

Prism 3 



Add (or adds) 23 

Added 3 

Adding 4 

Additional 1 

Amount 2 

Angle 4 

Apportion 3 

Approach a straight line ... 1 

Approximate 3 

Area 17 

Average 2 

Balance 2 

Breadth 1 

Broken line 1 

Calculate 15 

Center 311 

Center line 4 

Circle 5 

Circular 68 

Compute '. . 1 

Couple 2 

Curve 98 

Cylinder 4 

Cylindrical 1 

Decrease 4 

Deduct 6 

Depth 82 

Diagonal 26 

Diagonals 1 

Diameter 3 

Diamond 3 

Difference 3 

Dimensions 1 

Divide 18 

Divided 3 

Dividing 2 

Division 9 

Divisions 20 

Double 37 

Equal (or equals) 470 

Equally 1 

Equal parts 3 

Equidistant 1 



Product 1 

Proportional 9 

Proportionate 6 

Pyramid 1 

Radiating lines 3 

Radius 12 

Rectangle 6 

Remainder 12 

Right angle 39 

Round 6 

Ruler 14 

Second 68 

Secondary 1 

Single 30 

SLxth 1 

Spaces (areas) 1 

Square 30 

Straight edge 1 

Straight line 30 

Subtract 5 

Sum 1 

Tailor's square 3 

Take from 5 

Tape measure 15 

Tertiary 1 

Third 12 

Three-fold 1 

Times 22 

Total 3 

Triangle 1 

Triangular 1 

Triple 4 

Twice 51 

Two-fold 1 

Unequal 1 

Uneven numbers 2 

Vary (or varies) 6 

Vertical 12 

Whole (sum) 1 

Width 171 

Yard stick 1 

Zero 1 



1922] 



MATHEMATICS NEEDED IN ELEMENTARY CLOTHING 



T.^BLE II 
Denominate numbers 



467 



Cents 

Century 

Day 


3 

5 

4 

454 

S 

14 


Hour 

Inch (inches) 

Minute 

Moment 

Month 

Pounds 


5 

1399 

2 

1 

1 

2 


Score 

Skeins 

Week 


1 

3 

4 


Dollars 

Dozen 

Head 


Yard 

Year 


70 

12 



T.\BLE UI 
Inches 



INCHES 


INTEGEES 


MTXED NTTUBERS 


COMMON FR.4CTI0NS 


DECI- 
UALS 


Eipressed in 


One 
place 


Two 
places 


Three 
places 


One 
place 


Two 
places 


Three 
places 


J 


i 


} 


i 


1 


1 


i 


A 


0.5 


Words 

Figures 


427 

22 


33 
143 




1 


48 

25 




61 







129 

7 


178 

7 


82 
10 


56 
11 


37 
9 


15 

7 


2 
8 


9 




12 



T.^BLE IV 

Common fractions (not included in Table III) 





FRACTIONS 




Half 


Fourth 


Third 


Sixth 


Eighth 


Tenth 


Twelfth 




162 



45 
2 


23 




27 



12 



7 




6 












Table III gives in detail the use made of the inch. Length in inches 
in about 43 per cent of the total number of cases is represented by a 
common fraction, and in 33 per cent of the cases by a one place integer. 
It is interesting to compare the fractions in this table with those in Table 
IV, which gives all the common fractions used in the text and not in- 
cluded in Table III. One finds that the fractions in these tables do not 
differ in size but that they differ in two other respects, at once interesting 
and significant. These points of difference lie in the "divisions of the 
whole" which the denominators represent and in the operations per- 
formed upon the fractions. The denominators in Table III correspond 
to the divisions on the ordinary ruler or linear scale — halves, quarters, 
eighths, sixteenths; while the denominators in Table IV correspond in 
81 per cent of the cases to the divisions most easily and frequently made 
by the human eye and mind — halves, thirds, fourths, and in the other 19 
per cent of cases, the denominators are multiples of these divisions. 



468 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



The operations performed upon the fractions in Table III are, in general, 
addition, subtraction, multiplication (in which the inch, a concrete 
number, is the multiplicand) and, in a few cases, division and reduction. 
Almost the only operation performed with the fractions in Table IV 
is multiplication, in which the fraction plays the role of multiplier. 

TABLE V 
Money 









AMOUNTS 








Less than 
$1.00 


$1.00 to 
$10.00 


$10.00 to 

$100.00 


$100,00 to 
$1000.00 


$1000- 








191 


175 
71 



8 

1 




5 
2 



1 

















Table V shows that the amounts of money used are small; S1200 is 
the largest amount and it occurs but once, while 96 per cent of the cases 
represent sums of money less than $10 in value. The operations with 
money, written as decimals, are limited to the addition of three to forty 
addends ranging from S.Ol to $25.00, and to the multiplication of small 
decimals (cents) by one place whole or mixed numbers or by small 
common fractions. (See Table VI.) 



TABLE VI 
U. S. Money, Multiplkalio7i 







MUXTIPLICANDS 






Dollars 


Dollars and cents 


Cents only 




9 









24 




13 




1 







TABLE VII 
Cardinal numbers {not indudcd in previous tables) 





INTEGERS 




Zero 


One 

place 


Two 
place 


Three 
place 


Four 
place 


Words 


1 

2 



523 

566 

71 


8 

161 

6 




289 








30 












1922] MATHEMATICS NEEDED IN ELEMENTARY CLOTHING 469 

One of the two chapters involving percentage presupposes a knowledge 
of the four fundamental operations with decimals. This chapter deals 
with the distribution of a $1200 budget. Two cases of percentage are 
used, (1) Ending a certain per cent of S1200,and (2) finding what per cent 
a certain sum of money is of $1200; the operations involved are (1) 
multiplication of a four place integer by a two place decimal, and (2) 
di\asion of a two or three place integer by a four place integer. The 
other chapter involving percentage is concerned with the absorbent 
quality of fabrics, given in per cents. To understand this chapter ele- 
mentary students need to know only the meaning of the term " per cent." 

There is a chapter on color in which use is made of symbols involving 
letters and numerical superscripts; however, this symbolism, though 
akin to algebraic symbolism, is peculiar to the theory of color and is 
fuUy explained in the text. 

Five chapters, or about one-fourth the number of pages in the text, 
are concerned with the drafting and use of patterns. The directions 
for drafting patterns are stated in the form of equations written out in 
words, and illustrated by geometric figures. There are four hundred 
thirty of these equations and they represent arithmetical problems to 
be solved, geometric constructions to be made, or more often, com- 
binations of the two. Relatively few processes are required for the 
solution of these problems, but every possible combination of these 
processes appears. The exact number of processes required, and the 
degree of complexity involved in drafting any one pattern cannot be 
fully determined, for, after drafting a pattern to the set of standard 
measurements given in the text, each student is required to draft a 
pattern to her own measurements, and her measurements may be such 
as to simplify, or to further complicate, the given problem. 

The most complicated problem given in the text is the "Rule for 
Finding the Radius (of a circular flounce) : Multiply the width of the 
flounce at the top by the depth; divide the product by the difference 
between the width at the top and bottom, the result being the radius 
of the curve at the top" (p. 124). Illustrations of the simplest, the 
most common, and (with the exception of the rule quoted above) the 
most complicated, types of directions are: 

1. HM equals five inches. 

2. AE equals one-sixth neck measure plus three-eighths inch. 

3. AB equals one-half hip measure minus one-eighth of one-half 
width around bottom. 



470 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

The arithmetical processes and geometric constructions a knowledge 
of which is necessary to carry out the four hundred thirty directions 
of this type are: 

1. All the processes involved in the addition, subtraction, multipli- 
cation, and division of small integers, mixed numbers, and common 
fractions with small denominators. 

2. The reduction of yards to inches and inches to yards. 

3. To draw a line of given length. 

4. To draw a line parallel to a given line at a given distance from it. 

5. To draw a line perpendicular to a given line from a given internal 
or external point. 

6. To draw a circle, or arc of circle, having given the center and radius 
of the circle. 

If we add to this list the processes involved in performing the four 
fundamental operations with decimals (not exceeding four places in 
the integral, and three places in the decimal part) we shall have aU the 
processes and constructions encountered in the text. 

It is quite obvious that pupils in elementary clothing classes in high 
school or college should have met with these elementary and funda- 
mental processes and with most of the geometrical as well as arithmeti- 
cal concepts by the time they have completed the elementary school. 
Therefore, exercises designed to remove this type of handicap should 
consist of reviews of the methods of performing these operations and of 
abundant drill in simple applications within the rather narrow range 
indicated in this study. 

It is quite probable that a girl will have had plane geometry before 
taking elementary clothing. It is also quite probable that even if she 
remembers the few simple constructions needed they will not serve her 
purpose, for the method of constructing parallel and perpendicular 
lines in the sewing laboratory is by means of the tailor's square and 
not the classic "straight edge and compass" method which is the only 
method taught in many plane geometry classes. Difficulties with these 
constructions will be overcome most effectively and most economically 
when the teacher gives instructions and drill in the use of this new tool, 
the tailor's square. 



19221 TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 471 

AN AN.^LYSIS OF TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND 
TEXTILES 

ETHEL L. PHELPS 
Unh'ersily of Minnesota 

The purpose of the investigation reported in this paper is to trace the 
development of the subject matter of clothing and textiles as reflected 
by textbooks, and to ascertain the persistency and recurrence of funda- 
mental problems within that field as determined by such texts. It is 
hoped that the material herein presented may make a contribution to the 
information concerning the printed subject matter within this field, 
and may, by summarizing such information, serve as a starting point 
from which further work may proceed. A study of textiles and cloth- 
ing textbooks may picture the development of the subject, and may 
also present facts concerning textbooks in current use which should 
function in the evaluation and selection of such texts. 

A recent publication^ points out the importance of the textbook as a 
factor directly influencing the success of teaching in the average class- 
room, an importance which is increased in the light of our inadequate 
teaching staffs in America. The writer further states that the textbook 
"is an aid in instruction because it is a convenient means for having at 
hand necessary data, .... because it presents a definite organiza- 
tion of material, .... because it furnishes the teacher a means 
of selecting pertinent subject-matter." According to Maxwell, the 
following elements should be given consideration in the selection of text- 
books: content and organization, needs of users, purpose of author, 
accuracy and reliability of material, relative emphasis on the several 
aspects of the subject, amount of material included, illustrations, and 
helps, such as index, list of references, charts, and diagrams. Other 
considerations of lesser importance are the reputation of the author, and 
date of copyright. A third group of standards deals with the mechanical 
construction of the book, its appearajice, type used, and size of page. 

One of the earliest textbook studies was the analysis of history texts 
begun by Bagley and Rugg- in 1914. Since that date Jones' has studied 

'Maxwell, C. R., The Selection of Textbooks. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1921, 
p. V, vii, 4, 5, 62-75. 

» Bagley, W. C. and Rugg, H. O., Univ. of 111., School of Educ. Bull. no. 16, 1916, p. 8 Ff. 

•Jones, R.G., The 14th Yearbook of the Natl. Soc. for the Study of Educ, Part I. 
Bloomington, 111.: Public School Pub. Co., p. 38 ff. 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

primer vocabularies; Jessup and Coffman/ arithmetic; Monroe,^ arith- 
metic; Rugg and Clark,^ ninth-grade mathematics; Housch/ second- 
year readers; Woody,* spellers; and Trilling and others,^ home economics. 

METHOD OF ANALYSIS 

Selection of books. A list of clothing and textiles textbooks was pre- 
pared from bibliographies, references, and book lists published by vari- 
ous colleges and libraries, or included in bulletins, texts, or reference 
books. With the few exceptions noted below, all of those books retained 
for analysis contained statements by the author indicating that they were 
intended for use as textbooks. Three exceptions were made, two of 
these being books which belonged to a period of which there were only 
few representatives, and which in form and content closely resembled 
a textbook, and one being a book which is known to have been used as a 
text. The final list included forty-three books. All of these were Ameri- 
can publications, with the exception of four, which were English, but 
which were published by firms maintaining large branch establishments 
in this country, and which have apparently been used widely enough to 
be carried in stock by the American branch of the firms. 

General data recorded. The following general facts were recorded for 
each book: date of publication, author, title, publisher, place of publica- 
tion, purpose of book, number of pages, average number of words per 
page, number of graphs, tables, photographs and dra\\angs used, charac- 
ter of legends appended to illustrations, and style of writing. 

Analysis of subject matter. As a result of trial and error experimenta- 
tion with the first few books studied, and of teaching experience with 
the subject matter involved, the following scheme for analysis was 
adopted and proved to be usable for all the books. The whole field was 
divided into three groups: clothing, textiles, and miscellaneous, which 
were in turn divided into fourteen topics for gross comparison, and these 
subdivided into fifty-four subtopics for purposes of detailed comparison 

•Jessup, W. A. and Coffman, L. D., The Supervision of Arithmetic. X. Y.: The Mac- 
millanCo., 1916,p.ll0ff. 

' Monroe, W. S., The ICth Yearbook of the Natl. Soc. for the Study of Educ, Part I. 
Bloomington, lU.: Public School Pub. Co., 1918, p. 112-127. 

^ Rugg, H. O. and Clark, J. R., Univ. of Chic. Press, Supplementary Educ. Monographs, 
Vol. II. no. 1, Apl. 1918, p. 26 f!. 

' Housh, E. T., The 17th Yearbook of the Nad. Soc. for the Study of Educ, Part I. 
Bloomington, lU.: Public School Pub. Co., 1918, p. 40 ff. 

* Woody, C, Jour, of Educ. Research, I: 119-128. Feb., 1915. 

' Trilling, M. B. et al.. Home Economics in American Schools. Chicago: Univ. of Chicago 
Press, Supplementary Educational Monographs, Vol. II, No. 6, Oct., 1920, p. 1 ff, 25, 26. 



1922] TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 473 

of subject matter, as well as for a satisfactory analysis of the contents of 
the books. 
The fourteen topics used were : 

1. Clothing— general instruction and supplies; patterns, drafting and 
draping; applied design; sewing processes; garment construction; care of 
clothing; millinery. 

2. Textiles — textile manufacture; textile fibers; fabrics and their 
uses. 

3. Miscellaneous — foreign material; blank pages; bibliography; index. 
The subtopics were carefully defined and the subject matter included 

in each was listed in detail, so that no confusion could arise in the course 
of the analysis. Following are examples of these subtopics: drafting 
and pattern making, principles of clothing design, sewing stitches, seam 
finishes, underwear, mending, weave structure, characteristics of fibers, 
tests for fabrics. 

Tabulallon of data. The above mentioned 54 subtopics were used in 
analyzing the 43 books. The total number of pages, including illustra- 
tions, and the number and size of illustrations were recorded for each 
subtopic, size of illustration being determined on the basis of the number 
per page. These data were summarized for each of the fourteen topics 
and the following information tabulated: total number of pages, number 
of pages of text, number of pages of illustrations, and number of illustra- 
tions both on a basis of the number of words per printed page and on the 
basis of a standard page, for which the average of the first 17 texts 
analyzed. 350 words per page, was chosen. As a third basis of compari- 
son, the following percentages were computed for each topic and included 
in the tabulation — total (text and illustrations), text, illustrations. The 
above data supplied material for comparisons and summaries. 

It was deemed permissible to compare all these books, although the 
aims and purposes were not identical, inasmuch as clothing and textiles 
textbooks, like texts in other fields, have been rather generally used 
with considerable disregard of the purposes outlined by the author.' 

GENER.\L CHAR.\CTERISTICS OF THE BOOKS 

Types of schools provided for. About half of these text books have been 
planned for the grades. Twelve of the 43 were intended for one or more 
of the following types of institutions — high school, normal school, and 
college. The rest were planned for varied uses, such as trade schools, 
vocational schools, continuation and technical courses, and evening 
schools. With the introduction of clothing and textiles into various 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

types of educational institutions, the work outlined in textbooks has been 
changed gradually, so as to meet the changing demands of home 
economics curricula. 

Period of puUication. The dates of publication range from 1882 to 
1921. Twenty-seven, or 63 per cent, were issued during the decade 
ending with 1919. The rest of these texts were distributed as follows: 
one before 1890, five between 1890 and 1899, eight between 1900 and 
1909, and two after 1919. The period of greatest productivity to date 
has been the ten years between 1910 and 1920, a period which coincides, 
probably, with the development of the subject in the school program. 

Organization. A survey of the chapter headings of six texts devoted 
wholly or largely to textiles shows, in spite of apparent dissimilarity, cer- 
tain points of similarity. Methods of textile manufacture, bothprimitive 
and modem, and the study of the production and manufacture of textile 
fibers are included in all six lists. Finishing processes, such as bleaching 
and dyeing, and laboratory testsarefoundspeciallynotedaschapterhead- 
ings in five. Other subjects occur less frequently. Chapter headings 
are indicative of variations in organization, but are not measures of 
variation in the actual subject matter content of the books. The order 
of subject matter arrangement, as well as the content, was undoubtedly 
influenced by the purpose of the book. The variety of purposes already 
noted, of number of large divisions used, and of character and order of 
such divisions, would probably be found to be quite as marked among 
the 38 books devoted wholly or in part to the study of clothing as it is 
in these five. 

Style. Most of these texts are expository, or partly expository and 
partly descriptive, in style. In 1900-1909, one was written in question 
and answer form, and the next decade produced two books which were 
developed as narratives. This would seem to indicate that exposition 
is generally accepted as the most satisfactory form in which to present 
clothing and textiles subject matter in textbooks. 

Ilhistratiotis. (1) Number. Twenty-six of the 43 texts have not 
more than 100 illustrations each, although of the 27 published during 
1910-1919, 13 exceeded 100 illustrations per book, three of them having 
totals of more then 300 illustrations. 

(2) Size. Less than a third of all the illustrations have occupied more 
than a third of a page, while more than two-thirds have occupied a fourth 
of a page or more. 

(3) Kind. The use of photographs has increased from 3 to 44 per 
cent of all illustrations since 1900. The character of both drawings and 
photographs has shown a marked improvement. 



1922] TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 475 

(4) Graphs and tables. The use of graphs is limited but seems to 
be increasing, nine only being found and those occurring in the 35 books 
published from 1900 to 1920. Tables have been used more commonly 
than graphs, and also seem to be increasing gradually in number. Be- 
tween 1910 and 1919, 10 of the 16 books in which tables were used, 
contained 82 out of a total of 131 tables. 

(5) Legends. The use of explanatory legends has predominated 
throughout the whole period, no gradual development in this feature 
having been observed. 

Bibliographical material. It is of interest to note the relatively small 
amount of bibliographical or reference material which has been used. 
Thirty-two of the texts contained no bibliography or reference lists, the 
two latest contributions in this field being included. This may possibly 
be due in part to the scarcity of adequate reference material for clothing 
work, to the technical nature of much of the reference material available 
in the field of textiles, or to the maturity of student for whom the text is 
planned. 

Indexes. Indexes have been used with gradually increasing frequency 
during the decades studied, although it should be noted that 37 per cent 
of the textbooks published between 1910 and 1919, when the use of the 
index was most marked, contained no index. 

These changes in certain general features are probably manifestations 
in this field of the general development to be observed in textbook 
making. They reflect our increasing knowledge of the use of illustra- 
tions, both as to kind, size, and number, of the functions and value 
of bibliographies and indexes, and of other general features of a text. 

SIZE AND SCOPE OF THE BOOKS 

Siae. The size of the books has been measured by the number of 
pages in the book, the number of words per page as printed, and the 
number of 350 word pages, a size selected as standard for purposes of 
comparison. Blank pages and those devoted to foreign material'" have 
been omitted. 

The number of pages per book has gradually increased during the two 
decades following 1900. Previous to that date none exceeded 200 pages. 
The majority of these texts for 1910-1919 contain from 200 to 300 
pages; the maximum size is one 500-600 page book, written in four 

'» "Foreign material" has been used to include other topics which are not a part of the 
subject matter of textiles and clothing, such as directions to teachers, making beds, interior 
decoration, etc. 



476 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

parts. The clearly marked tendency to increase the number of pages 
is evidence of an increasing volume of subject matter which has grown 
with the development of home economics, and of a freer use of illustra- 
tive material. Such growth of subject matter may in part be due to 
an increased use of applications of science, economics, and art to the 
problems of clothing and textiles. 

The number of words per page is determined by the size, style, and 
placement of the type used, as well as the dimensions of the page. No 
record was made of these factors, but the variation in them might be 
safely assumed to parallel that of textbooks in other subjects for similar 
grades. The average for the whole group is very nearly 350 words per 
page and there has been relatively little change in the size of page used, 
as measured in this manner. 

Compared on the basis of the 350 word page, the size of these 
books has markedly increased. This may have been partially due 
to a wider introduction of the subject in schools, to its introduction 
into increasingly diversified types of schools, or to the added interest 
in vocational education and the resultant demand for literature 
relating thereto. 

Scope. Textiles and clothing textbooks have been developed as dis- 
tinctly separate units in the literature of home economics. Although 
foods courses have been associated with clothing courses in school cur- 
ricula for several decades, but three of the texts studied contain sections 
devoted to foods. Three books include materials for other phases of 
home economics, of which shelter, home equipment, and care of the baby 
are examples. Numerous texts may be found in which clothing and 
textiles have been treated separately, or in which the two have been 
somewhat correlated. This condition is shown by the fact that 19 of 
the 43 books devoted 90 per cent or more of their space to clothing work, 
five devoted 90 per cent or more space to textiles, and the remaining 19 
contained varying amounts of the two. 

Textiles first appeared in these books in combination with clothing 
work during the 1890 to 1894 period, the first book dealing primarily 
with textiles having been published in 1912, and all of the five textiles 
texts belonging to the decade ending with 1919. The introduction of 
textiles is of later origin than that of clothing work, and its recognition 
in these textbooks has been increasing gradually. 

Further evidence of this development is found in the increasing number 
of 350 word pages contributed to clothing and textiles, during the five- 
year periods studied, with the exception of a slump during 1900-1904 in 
the textiles contributions. 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS TEACHIXG LOAD 477 

The kind of clothing work offered has changed quite as much as the 
quantity. Two tj'pes of sewing work may be said to have been developed- 
that in which sewing processes are taught by means of samplers or models, 
and that in which the experience is acquired through the construction of 
garments or other useful articles. E.xcluding the strictly textiles texts, 
the remaining books have outlined clothing problems of either one or 
both of these types. During the whole period there has been a tendency 
to eliminate work on samplers and to introduce construction work in its 
place. During the 1910-1919 period three of the clothing books dealt 
with samplers, seven with samplers and garments, and twelve with gar- 
ments only. Such a transfer of emphasis would seem to have followed 
the increased knowledge of educational psychology and of efficient 
methods of presentation of subject matter. 

{To be concluded) 



HOIME ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 

JESSIE ■\\TIITACRE 

Utah Agrkullural College 

The School of Home Economics of the Utah Agricultural College, 
in an endeavor to establish the teaching load in accordance with the 
practice of other institutions giving work leading to the Bachelor's 
Degree in Home Economics, sent out the following questionnaire: 

1. How many students are registered this year in your institution? 

2. How many women are registered in the entire institution? 

3. How many women are registered in home economics? 

4. How many members are there in your home economics staff? 

5. \Vliat is the range of clock hours per week spent in the class room by the 
members of your home economics staff; that is, what is the smallest, the 
average, and the greatest number of clock hours per week for the members 
of your staff? 

6. Is there a definite or uniform difference in the teaching load when it is 
lecture work as compared with laboratory work only, or with both kinds of 
work done by each member? 

7. What is the teaching load in clock hours per week for those of your staff 
members having administrative responsibilities? 

8. What is your opinion as to the size of the teaching load of your home 
economics staff members; that is, is it too hght, too heavy, or a reasonable one? 

9. How does the home economics staff members' teacliing load compare with 
that of faculty members of other departments of your institution? 

The replies from 26 institutions are summarized in the chart. 



478 


THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 


[October 














Year ,'. 




HOUE ECONOUICS TEACHIHG LOAD 






Registration 




INSTITUTION 








s g 










Total 


Women 


Home 

Economics 

majors 


Number in 

Home Economics 

Staff 


Ratio 
teaching staff 
to students 


MinimiUB 










11 








\V'ashington State 


4,673 


Not deter- 


185 majors. 400 


(?1 


Not answered 


(?) 


"is 


University 




mined. 
About s 
of total 


more 1 lecture 
a week on 
food. 50 elect 
various home 










Washington State 


1,929 


678 


Majors 129. To- 


19.0 


9 and head. 2 


i:i2 9 


One teacher ti 


Agricultural Col- 






tal in classes 


of whom have 




er 2 ll 


lege 






356 




charge of stu. 
dent feeding 
and do part 
time teaching 




methods a 
high .sc 
classes d 
One in pra 
cottage 10 b 
class room 


Oregon Agricul- 


3,400 


1,011 


529 


52.4 


28 


i:i8.8 


19 


tural CoUege 
















University of Mon- 


1,!S3 


540 


About 100 


18.5 


2 


1:50.0 




tana 
















University of Cali- 


10,000 


5,000 


About 400 


8.0 


8 'full-time, 3 


1:42.1 


9 


fornia 










half-time 






University of Ne- 


543 


188 


29 


15.4 


2 TfuU-time, 1 


1:10.6 


UJ 


vada 










half-time 






University of Idaho 


1,200 


500 


58 


10.0 


6 


1:8.3 


18 



















1922] 



HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 



479 



tXIHG LOAD IN CLOCK HOUltS 



16 and 17 
hours for 
those hav- 
ing admin- 
istrative 
duties 



Same as those without 
administrative duties 



HOUE ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 



Head's opinion of work 



About 15. Varies greatly 



Load should be about 
20 hours, no more than 
22 with lecture and 
laboratory. This equals 
about 12 credit hours 



Fairly reasonable 



Both staff members have 
lecture and laboratory 
work and also admini- 
strative work. Load 
entirely too lieavy 

On the whole reasonable. 
Equitable with that in 
other University De- 
partments, in so far as 
comparison is possible 

Reasonable 



18 to 22 hours would be 
reasonable 



Definite uniform load throughout 
University. 15 hours full schedule. 
Lectures to 40 or more = li hours. 
To less than 40 = 1 hour. 2 labo- 
ratory hours = 1 hour except in 
Home Economics = \\ hours since 
first \ hour in Home Economics 
laboratory is recitation. No dis- 
tinction in any way between Home 
Economics and other departments 

College trying to set standard: 1 lec- 
ture hour equals 2 hours laboratory 
On this basis instructor should 
carry 16 credit hours a week. 
Home Economics on same basis as 
other laboratory courses 



Lectures to normal size sections^ 
1 teaching load hour. To large 
sections = 1§ teaching load hours. 
Laboratory = J teaching load 
hour. Home Economics load light- 
er than average 

In College of Liberal Arts load much 
lighter than in Home Economics; 
in all Science departments load as 
heavy and somewhat heavier 



Teaching load laboratory: lecture : : 
2'.\. Varies with type of course; 
every member of staff both lecture 
and laboratory 



No difference in load if lecture or 
laboratory or both. Home Eco- 
nomics load compares favorably 
with that in other departments 

Home Economics lighter than in 
other departments. Load varies 
if both lecture and laboratory 



480 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 



Year 1922 at i 



HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 



University of, Wy- 
oming 



Colorado Agncul- 
tural College 



University of Utah 



Agricultural Col- 
lege of Utah: 



Home 

Economics 

majors 



Number in 

Home Economics 

Staff 



Ratio 
teaching staff 
to students 



3 and student 
assistant 



7 full time, of 
whom 2 are 
part time. 
Student assist- 
tants 



13.3 5, of whom 1 
part time 



131 , 48.2 



North Dakota Ag- 
gicultural Col- 



Kansas State Man- 
ual Training 
Normal ■ 



University of 
Maine 



25 sub-collegiate 34 . 2 
49 collegiate I 



College 100 i 34.7 

Others 143 i 



61 21.5 



6 full-time 

2 one-half time 



Practice j: 
2 lectu- 
credits e 
tioQ p 
dietetic e 
tures 

12 



11 in fa i 
except i 
or 16 I J 



1922] 



HOIIE ECONOMICS TEACHING hOAD 



481 



ACBING LOAD IN CLOCK HOURS 



imum Average 



ra labo- 
I, 17 
labora- 
d S lec- 
AssUt- 
hours 



18 and 20 
(median 
hours) 



2 lectures, one-half time 
to field work supervis- 
ing vocational Home 
Economics 



More than some of in- 
structors. Equals any 
except training school 
teacher 



11 hours fall; IS to 18 i 
winter and spring 



15; again, 9 plus cafe- 
teria super\'ision 



5 to 10 hours plus prac- 
tice teaching 



HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 



Head's opinion of work 



Head's too heavy. Rest 
reasonable, e.'^cept too 
many different prepa- 
rations 

With one exception, suffi- 
cient student assistance 
to make load reason- 
able 



In two cases too heavy 



10 to 12 hours for head 
so long as classes 8 to 
30 in number, reason- 
able. IS to 18 heavy 
if both becture and 
laboratory and some 
administrative duties. 
20 to 22 heavy but pos- 
sible if laboratory only 
and no administrative 
duties 

Reasonable. Positive 
work always strength- 
ened when load not too 

Reasonable, except at 
times when outside 
calls, banquets, lec- 
tures, designing, must 
be done 



Reasonable except in case 
of instructor having 7j 
hours and practice 
house supervision. Too 
heavy 



No difference in load when lecture 
and laboratory work done. Home 
Economics load about average. 
Certain others lighter or heavier 



Load compares favorably 
in other departments, 
cently too heavy 



Mth that 



Load heavier when bolh lecture and 
laboratory. In most cases com- 
pares favorably with other depart- 
ments. (First two years of college 
work only given) 

Best quality of work possible only 
when load not overheavy, present 
load needs lightening. About same 
as other departments 



More hours in load if laboratory only. 
Home Economics amonR lighter of 
load but many same load 



Home Economics attempts to make 
difference in load if work both 
lecture and laboratory. Home Eco- 
nomics longer hours than in other 
departments, since so much labor- 
atory work 

No difference made for lecture and 
laboratory work both. Load same 
as other departments 



482 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 



INSTrrUTlON 



Iowa Agricultural 
College 



University of Iowa 



University of Ken- 
tucky 



University of In- 
diana 



Purdue University 



HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 



University of Min- 
nesota 



Pennsylvania State 
College 



Home 

Economics 

majors 



Number in 

Home Economics 

Staff 



53 resident, 11 
extension 



10 resident, 5 
extension, 1 
experimental 
station 



24 full-time 
6 one-third 
more lime 



Ratio 
teaching stafi 
to students 



13 of whom 10 
full-time 



1922 



HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 



483 



miutd 



looing load in clock hours 



HOMX economics TEACHING LOAD 



Head's opimon of work. 



J to I for each having 
administrative duties 



12 credit 
hours in 
summer 
school 



4 lecture hours 



All having administra- 
tive duties lighter than 
others by 2 to 4 hours 
or more. Head's not 
specifically stated 



None first semester. Sec- 
ond, 3 teaching hours 
and 3 days in field 
supervision first 6 weeks 



18 or 19 hours, load too 
heavy. Should not ex- 
ceed 15 hours or 12 
hours if research work 
done by instructor to 
insure best results 

25 hours too heavy, 15 to 
18 satisfactory 



Reasonable except in < 
case too heavy. Teach- 
ers do better work 
when reasonable 
mount of work to do 



So much depends on qual- 
ity of teaching which 
instructor wishes to do, 
as to amount she can 
efficiently handle. 
Head almost hesitates 
recommending any 
amount of work as 
reasonable or imreas- 
onable 



Reasonable. Head's field 
supervision first neces- 
sary this year 



No diflFerence in teaching load if both 
lecture and laboratory. Teaching 
loads of all departments on file in 
President's office 

No difference in load when lecture 
and laboratory but acting head 
thinks there should be. So long as 
load below 18 hours, compares 
favorably with other departments 



Lecture and laboratory work both 
done by each member. Load about 
same as in other departments 

Fewer hours than modern language. 
Difficult to give 12 credit hours 
(value of credit hours not given in 
letter) to instructor teaching many 
laboratories. Give credit for ac- 
count keeping, marketing, travel, 
time for lectures off campus 

No difference made in instructors 
load when both lecture and labo- 
ratory, but more laboratory assist- 
ance when lecture work heavy. 
Home Economics professors and 
instructors heavier load than in 
other departments. Laboratory 
assistants load about same 

10 to 12 credit hours = full-time 
teaching load, 1 lecture hour = 
1 credit hour. 2 lecture laboratory 
hours = 1 credit hour, 3 laboratory 
hours = 1 credit hour. Home 
Economics load compares favor- 
ably with other lecture courses. 
Customary to start instructor 
on 2, 5 hour lecture-laboratory 
course. Yet no hard and fast 
rule 

Load on average with other depart- 
ments 



484 



THE JOURNAL OF HOiiE ECONOMICS [October 



INSTITDTION 



University of Mis- 
souri 



University o( Wis- 
consin 



Ohio State Uni- 
versity 



Cornell University 5,342 



sity of IIH- 



University of 
Chicago 



9,084 with 
Chicago 
schools 



Year 1921 ar,2i 



aOilE ECON'OMICS TEACHINC LOAD 



2.901 wiih 
extension 



Home 

Economics 

majors 



3,545 275 



Number in 

Home Economics 

Staff 



13 of whom 3 
half-time 



Teaching... .22 Teaching 1:13 
Extension 17 Teaching and 



Ratio 

teaching staff 

to students 



Administra- 
tion 

Total , 



Teaching 18. 
cafeteria 1, 
student labo- 
ratory assist- 
ants 2, ex- 
tension 7 



full-time, 38 
part time, 6 
in institutiona 
department dc 
some teaching 
also 



Administra- 
tion 1.6,4 





1922] 


HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 4 


Cduded 








XACHD.-G LOAD IN CLOCK HOITSS 


HOilE ECONOMICS TEACHING LOAD 


iximuni 


Average 


Head's _ 


Head's opinion of work 


Remarks 


jtalory 


10 credit 


About one-half-time^ 


As light as should be. 


1 lecture hour = 1 credit hour. 




hours 


teaching load 


Li^ht in order to put 
in research and out- 
side activities 


2 laboratory hours = 1 credit 
hour. Average load in most other 
departments 12 hours 


20 




Not specifically stated. 
No reduction for ad- 
ministrative duties 


Reasonable 


1 lecture hour = I credit hour. 
2 hours laboratory = 1 credit 
hour. Home Economics load 
slightly heavier than in other 
departments 


21 


14 


Average 11 hours for each 


Reasonable for those 


No comparative study of Home Eco- 






one ha\ing administra 


without administrative 


nomics load with that in other 






live duties 


duties. Too heavy for 
those having admini- 
strative duties 


departments has been made 


ttempt to 






No load shoidd be more 


Burdens carried under different con- 


tj ize work 






than 8 periods a week. 


ditions so vary that clock hours do 


l; lock hours. 






This, if all laboratory 


not tell tale. Purposely avoid 


1 get best 






2 J or 3 hours very 


stating among selves what is 


ind greatest 






heavy 


normal program 


live from 










1 ! staff mem- 










> complete 










r im in plan- 










■ amount oi 










1 vork 










ictice teach- 


Others: 10. 


Definite statement not 


Reasonable. Though no 


No means for comparing Home Eco- 




12.13,15. 


possible 


deduction from clock 


nomics load with that in other 




18.21 




hours warranted be- 
cause of varying na- 
ture of work. Each 
person and each bit 
of work requires indi- 
vidual handling 


departments. Traditional opinion 
which calls 16 hours teaching 
schedule cannot be general rule 
that fits all cases 


15 


12 


About 6 assistants for 


Thoroughly reasonable. 


Each instructor must give 2 majors 






laboratory work 


Made deliberately 
lighter than in some 
insiitutions with idea 
that all members of 
staS shall do and su- 
per\'ise research. Lat- 
ter regular part of 
work, but cannot be 
expressed in hours 


each quarter. If laboratory work 
included, more hours spent in class 
room. Home Economics load same 
as in other departments except io 
those where laboratory work not 
included, load is 8 hours 


J 











486 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

RESEARCH IN PHYSIOLOGICAL AND FOOD CHEMISTRY 
IN THE HOME ECONOMICS LABORATORY 

AGNES FAY MORGAN 
Unhersily of California 

The present organization of the Research Committee of the American 
Home Economics Association should make possible by sub-division a 
more efficient stimulation of research activity among home economics 
workers. This division into sub-committees based upon the major 
phases of home economics, institutional and household management, 
textiles, education, foods and nutrition, and extension, has already been 
explained to readers of the Journal. It is the object of this paper to 
present a further report upon the organization of the committee on 
research in foods and nutrition together with suggestions as to the prob- 
lems and methods of investigation in this field. 

In order further to simplify the matter of compilation of such sug- 
gestions, the sub-committee on research in foods and nutrition has been 
again subdivided into three smaller groups, dealing respectively with, 
1) physiological and food chemistry, 2) field and clinic nutrition investi- 
gations, 3) methods of food preparation. Each of these groups will 
undertake to put together a suggestive list of questions in their own field 
which need investigation, and which have peculiar interest and appro- 
priateness for the home economics department. They will in addition 
point out the work on these problems already published, and such un- 
published work as they may be able to gain access to, and will suggest 
standards for accuracy and self-criticism in those undertaking research 
projects. This attempt is being made in a humble but determined spirit, 
and in the hope that the derogatory attitude of neglect or criticism now 
perceptible in outside observers toward research in the home economics 
departments of our colleges and universities may be met and destroyed. 

THE FIELD OF PHYSIOLOGICAL AND FOOD CHEMISTRY 

A difficult question at once arises when the vast and important field 
of physiological and food chemistry is surveyed by the home economics 
specialist. So varied and so fundamental to human survival is this field 
that it has been explored in all directions since the earliest beginnings 
of the scientific attack upon the problems of human environment. 
That much remains to be found out will be disputed by no one, but the 
right of the home economics laboratory to take over as its own any par- 



1922] RESE.\RCH IN PHYSIOLOGICAL AND FOOD CHEMISTRY 487 

ticular phase will undoubtedly be hotly contested. It appears to the 
writer of this report, however, that seeking the answers to constantly 
recurring practical questions upon digestion, food need, and food com- 
position is quite as much our duty as is the corresponding search for 
answers to questions upon food preparation. However much the medi- 
cal departments may be doing in this field it is plain that a vast number 
of problems remain unsolved and that many of these problems are of 
such a character as to commend themselves particularly to home eco- 
nomics workers. It cannot be doubted moreover from the cordial 
reception already accorded the few contributions made in this field 
that anything offered from the home economics laboratory will be wel- 
comed by scientists working along similar lines in schools of medicine 
and public health, and in biological and medical research institutions. 

The peculiar opportunities and privileges, as well as background and 
technique of the home economics staff should, however, never be for- 
gotten in the choice of the problem. The large number of intelhgent 
and eager young women students available as participating subjects 
should make metabolism studies upon women a marked subject for 
research. Little is on record as to the relation of the metabolism and 
food need of women to the menstrual and reproductive cycles, and yet 
no question more significant to the good of the race can be asked. It is 
surely not too much to expect that some light on this dark spot should 
be looked for from departments made up wholly of scientifically trained 
and interested women. Indeed, a beginning of this sort has already been 
made in more than one institution. 

Another phase of the study of nutrition which has peculiar interest 
for women is that of infant and child feeding. It is significant that 
some of the earliest work done by research workers in home economics 
had to do with this topic. The development of the social phase of this 
subject in the present widespread clinic and field work with malnourished 
children is a natural outgrowth of such interest. 

The enormous task of a complete biological analysis of all foods both 
raw and cooked in every manner remains to be carried out. The proxi- 
mate chemical analysis of food so well begun some forty years ago has 
placed in our hands a valuable body of information concerning certain 
gross phases of food composition. This information needs to be added 
to in kind, particularly with reference to the composition of foods cooked 
according to specified methods, and this work should surely be done in 
the home economics laboratory. But the more laborious and perhaps 



488 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

more significant testing by the biological method of these same foods 
has only been begun. The determination of the chemical and biological 
values of protein foods may and should be carried out side by side, 
and the same checking in the case of at least some of the so-called mineral 
elements is beginning to be worked out, particularly with reference to 
calcium and phosphorus. In the case of the vitamins only the biologi- 
cal method of analysis of foods is as yet available. The time should 
not be far distant when our tables of chemical composition and of vague 
qualitative vitamin content of foods will be supplemented by full quan- 
titative information as to the values of these foods in animal nutrition. 

Everyone is familiar with the frequent queries as to effect upon di- 
gestive processes of foods taken in certain combinations or cooked in 
given ways. These questions can be answered only by the tedious proc- 
ess of digestibility experiments, by the Rehfuss stomach tube, animal 
dissection, and similar methods. These problems might well be attacked 
in those home economics laboratories equipped with apparatus and 
personnel ready to handle them. 

The foregoing survey is not meant to cover all possible phases of 
physiological and food chemistry which are suitable for development 
in the home economics department but is offered as suggestive of the 
broad outlines of such problems. The following specific topics are 
listed in the hope that they may prove of value to those who are ready 
to undertake new investigations. 

PROBLEMS SUIT.'iBLE FOR RESEARCH BY HOME ECONOMICS WORKERS ]>I 
PHYSIOLOGICAL AND FOOD CHEMISTRY 

1. Variations in basal metabolism of women and children. Determina- 
tion of basal metabolism of underweight and overweight persons, of 
the influence of the menstrual cycle, of pregnancy and lactation, of 
overfeeding and underfeeding, of fevers, rickets, scurvy, anemia, dia- 
betes, nephritis, goiter, digestive disturbances, and similar common 
pathological conditions. 

Specialized but rather simple gaseous exchange apparatus is necessary 
for this work, and a special technique must be acquired for it. 

The only institution so far reporting work on basal metabolism car- 
ried out in the home economics laboratory is the University of Chicago. 
The publications listed are as follows: 



1922] RESEARCH IN PHYSIOLOGICAL AND FOOD CHEMISTRY 489 

1. K. Blunt and il. Dye. Basal Metabolism of Normal Women. J. Biol. Chem., 47, 69 
(1921). 

2. K. Blunt, k. Nelson, and H. C. Oleson. Basal Metabolism of Underweight Children. 
J. Biol. Chem., 49, 247. 

3. K. Blunt and V. Bauer. Basal Metabolism and Food Consumption of Underweight 
CoUege Women. J. Home Econ., 14, 117 (1922). 

2. Changes in composilion oj the blood, with reference to such con- 
stituents as hemoglobin, creatin, creatinin, uric acid, urea, lipins, phos- 
phates, glucose, under each of the conditions listed above. Better and 
simpler technique for such analysis is rapidly becoming available as 
a result of the work of Folin, Denis, Stanley Benedict, Bloor, and others, 
and much needed information about the intermediary metabolism should 
be obtainable by its use. Both human and animal subjects may be 
used in such studies, and cooperation with university and other hospi- 
tals should be sought. A valuable phase of the latter endeavor is the 
possible interest and instruction of the dietitians and students planning 
to work in the hospital laboratory or diet kitchen. Just as it has come 
to be apparent that sound and scientific training of nutrition specialists 
can scarcely be available where the facilities of a good medical school 
are lacking, so research in certain phases of metabolism must be re- 
stricted to the same conditions. Example of publication: 

C. C. Wang and M. Dentler. Creatin and Creatinin in the Blood. J. Biol. Cliem. 45, 237 
(1920-21) (University of Chicago). 

Two unpublished theses of a similar type are as follows: 

]\I. Johnson. Arginin as Pre-cursor of Creatin-Creatinin of the Blood. M. A., Univer- 
sity of California, 1920. Work in progress. 

M. Eager. The Glucose Tolerance of Women as Affected by the Menstrual Cycle. 
University of California. Work in progress. 

3. Studies of the origin and precursors of metabolic end-products in 
the urine and feces, particularly with reference to their bearing upon 
the diet. Examples of particular importance are the numerous studies 
of creatin and creatinin, uric acid, ammonia, urea, glucose, and acetone 
bodies, of the urine as influenced by reaction of diet, protein and carbo- 
hydrate proportions, kind of protein, sex, growth, etc.; studies of the 
occurrence of phenols in urine and feces as an index of intestinal putre- 
faction upon various diets; the interrelations of calcium and phosphate 
excretion and its bearing upon bone and tooth development particularly 
in childhood, pregnancy, and lactation; effect of vitamin deficiencies 
upon the nitrogen and sulfur partitions in the urine; changes in urinary 
end-products in the various nutritional disorders. 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Not many studies along these lines have as yet been reported from 
home economics laboratories, although their direct bearing upon every 
day questions of diet can hardly be doubted. Some of the titles already 
available are: 

1. M. S. Rose. Creatinuria in Women. J. Biol. Chem., 32, 1 (1917) (Teacher's 
College, Columbia University). 

2. H. C. Sherman, H. M. Pope and L. H. Gillett. The Monthly Metabolism of N, Ca, and 
P in Healthy Women. J. Biol. Chem., 34, 373 (1918) (Columbia University). 

4. Determination of the gross digestibility and rate of digestion of foods. 
A great deal of the most needed data as to total per cent of foods digested 
has already been accumulated, but much remains to be answered as 
to the effect of various methods of preparation upon digestibility, and 
as to the more difficult problems of speed, completeness, and ease of 
digestion of foods taken in various combinations. The work of the 
United States Department of Agriculture may be pointed to as the 
classic on total digestibility, particularly the recent extremely interest- 
ing work on raw starch. The work of Hawk and co-workers at the 
University of Pennsylvania outlines another t^-pe of contribution, and 
that of Cannon and of Carlson are too familiar to need mention. This 
kind of experiment requires rather simple equipment and technique and 
should commend itself to the home economics staff newly beginning 
research. Some of the contributions from home economics laboratories 
already available are: 

1. N. E. Goldthwaite. Effect of Carbohydrate on Casein Digestion. J. Biol. Chem., 
7, 69 (1909-10) (University of Dlinois). 

2. K. Blunt and M. Mallon. Digestibility of Bacon. J. Biol. Chem. 38, 43 (1919) 
(University of Chicago). 

3. M. S. Rose. Utilization of Salep Mannan. J. Biol. Chem., 42, 159 (1920) 
(Teacher's College, Columbia Univ.). 

4. A. L. Daniels and L. Strickler. Digestibility of Starch in Typical Dough and Batter 
Mixtures. J. Home Econ., P, 109 (1917) (University of Wisconsin). 

5. M. S. Rose. DigestibiUty of Rolled Oats Prepared in Various Ways. J. Home 
Econ., J4, 9 (1922) (Teacher's College, Columbia University). 

6. M. S. Rose and G. MacLeod. Human Digestion Experiments with Raw White of 
Egg. J. Biol. Chem., 50, 83 (1922). 

7. A. F. Morgan and E. L. Brown. Value of \\Tialemeat as Human Food. J. Home 
Econ., 14, 267 (1922) (University of California). 

5. The chemical analysis of foods. Besides the usual routine chemical 
analysis of foods, information is needed as to distribution of the nitrogen, 
typ^ of carbohydrate, composition of ash and make-up of ether-soluble 
extract. No particularly specialized equipment, other than the polarim- 



1922] RESEARCH IN PHYSIOLOGICAL AND FOOD CHEMISTRY 491 

eter and refractometer and ordinary chemical apparatus are needed 
for this type of work. Examples of publications from home economics 
laboratories in this field are: 

1. K. Blunt and C. C. Wang. Chinese Preserved Eggs. J. Biol. Chem., 28, 125 (1916) 
(University of Chicago). 

2. M. Eichelberger and il. -■Vsbury. Iron .\nalysis of Kale and Turnip. J. Home Econ., 
14, 131 (1922) (University of Chicago). 

3. R. Okey and A. W. Williams. Inulin in the Globe Artichoke. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
42, 1693 (1920) (University of CaUfornia). 

6. The biological analysis of foods. It is in this field probably that 
the largest amount of work remains to be done, and at the same time 
that the best beginnings appear to have been made. The technique of 
such analysis has been laboriously evolved through the last 15 years 
by such investigators as Osborne and Mendel, McCoUum, Steenbock, 
Drummond, Hopkins, Funk, Chick, Sherman, and others, and is now 
well on the way to as nearly rational standardization as the chemical 
methods have attained. Although most of the work in this field has 
had to do with vitamins or proteins the method is by no means limited 
to these two problems. Animals are used as subjects in most of this 
work, although utilization tests on human subjects are common, and 
are to be included under this heading. 

The space and equipment for animal feeding experiments are not 
avaOable in all home economics laboratories, but it would seem advis- 
able to provide them wherever possible, for pedagogic if for no other 
reasons. The teaching of the doctrine of vitamins, for example, becomes 
uninspired and unconvincing if practical contact with the method of 
their detection be not provided the students. The equipment of cages 
etc. is not expensive, but a special room or rooms is necessary for the 
proper housing of the animals. 

A full description of standard methods for vitamin investigation is 
presented elsewhere by this committee,' so that further detail need not 
be given here. It should be noted, however, that aside from the de- 
tection of the vitamins in raw foods the home economics worker must 
be particularly concerned with the effect of cooking and preserving 
processes upon those vitamins. 

Our knowledge of the value of isolated proteins or of total nitrogen of 
various foods for maintenance of adults or growth of young in animal 

' Methods of Vitamin Investigation. Elizabeth W. Miller, Jour. Home Econ., 1922, 14: 
364-368. 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

and human subjects is far from complete. Likewise little is known of 
the utilization by man and animals of the various mineral elements in 
the forms found in foods. A few of the titles of articles reported from 
home economics laboratories will illustrate the width and variety of 
this field. 

1. A. Richardson and H. Green. Nutrition Investigations upon Cottonseed Meal. 
J. Biol. Chem., 25, 307 (1916); JO, 243 (1917); Ji, 379 (1917) (University of Texas). 

2. M. S. Rose and L. F. Cooper. Biological Efficiency of Potato Nitrogen. J. Biol. 
Cliem., 30, 201 (1917) (Teacher's College, Columbia University). 

3. A. L. Daniels and N. B. Nichols. Nutritive Value of the Soy Bean. J. Biol. Chem., 32 
91 (1917) (University of Wisconsin). 

4. A. L. Daniels and R. Loughlin. Feeding Experiments with Peanuts. J. Biol. Chem. 
33, 295 (1918) (University of Wisconsin). 

5. A. L. Daniels and N. I. McClurg. Influence of High Temperatures and Dilute Alkalis 
upon the Anti-neuritic Properties of Foods. J. Biol. Chem. 37, 201 (1919) (University of 
Wisconsin). 

6. A. L. Daniels and J. Rich. Value of Inorganic Sulfates in Nutrition. J. Biol. Chem. 
36, 27 (1918) (University of Wisconsin). 

7. A. F. Morgan and A. M. Heinz. Biological Value of Wlieat and Almond Nitrogen. 
J. Biol. Chem., 37, 215 (1919) (University of CaUfornia). 

8. M. S. Rose. Utilization of Calcium of Carrots by Man. J. Biol. Chem., 40, 349 (1919) 
(Teacher's College, Columbia University). 

9. A. L. Daniels and R. Loughlin. Fat Soluble Growth-promoting Substance in Lard 
and Cotton-seed Oil. J. Biol. Chem., 42, 359 (1920) (University of Wisconsin). 

10. B. K. Whipple. Water-soluble B in Cabbage and Onion. J. Biol. Chem., 44, 175 
(1920) (University of Chicago). 

11. M. Davis. Observations on Vita min Content of Foods. J. Home Econ., 12, 209 
(1920) (University of Wisconsin). 

12. M. Davis and J. Outhouse. Effect of Ration Low in Fat-Soluble A upon the Tissues 
of liie Rat. Am. J. Dis. Cliild., 21, 307 (1921) (University of Wisconsin). 

The following titles of work now in progress or unpublished are 
reported from a number of institutions: 

1. L. Stanley and B. K. Wiipple. The Influence of Cooking and Canning on the Vitamin 
Content of Foods. (University of Missouri.) 

2. Almonds and other Nuts as Source of Vitamin A. Utilization of Calcium of Almonds. 
Utilization of Calcium in Man. Basal MetaboUsm of the \\'hite Rat. (Teacher's College, 
Columbia University.) 

3. B. M. Newbecker. The Biological Value of Almond Proteins and Almond Oil. M. A., 
1922, (University of Calif ornia) . 

4. L. D. Francis. The Effect of Dehydration upon \'itamin-B Content of Pumpkin. 
M. A., 1922 (University of CaUfornia). 

7. Studies on infant and child feeding. This division of the field is 
logically only a part of that dealing with the biological analysis of foods, 
but is of sufficient interest in itself to command special attention. Most 
of the work in this line done by home economics specialists has now be- 



1922] TEAMWORK IN THE FAMILY 493 

come social in character, and has taken on the form of the well-known 
"nutrition" class or clinic. As examples of the scientific type of re- 
search which may be carried on, however, the following titles are given: 

1. R. \Mieeler and A. Biester. Xutritive \'alue of Some Proprietary Infant Foods- 
,\m. J. Dis. Child, 7, 169 (1914) (University of lUinois). 

2. R. \\'heeler. Nutritive \'alue of Some Proprietary Infant Foods as Milk Modifiers. 
Am. J. Dis. Child., P, 300 (1915) (University of lUinois). 

3. A. L. Daniels, S. Stuessy and E. Francis. Nutritive Value of Boiled Milk. Am. J. 
Dis. Child, //, 45 (1916) (University of Wisconsin). 

4. A. L. Daniels and H. English. Simple Method of Modifjnng Milk, Am. J. Dis. Child, 
77,212(1919). 

No claim is made that all work of this kind reported from home 
economics laboratories is listed in the preceding discussion. It is likely, 
however, that the omissions have not been numerous. A considerable 
volume of investigation in this field has been carried out by women 
primarily interested in home economics but working in other departments 
or under men of high rank in medical and chemical laboratories. This 
valuable body of research is not here credited to home economics, but 
only those pieces of work are so credited which were conceived and 
carried out by home economics women working in their own laboratories. 
The list is not a negligible one, either in size or in variety or in value, 
but the committee feels convinced that it is too short, and that it could 
well be lengthened by home economics departments as now organized 
by the exercise of courage and careful planning. 



TEAISIWORK IN THE FAMILY 

REBECCA J. GRADWOHL 

"If I left, your mother would cry her eyes out," declared Mary Jane, 
the maid, to Phyllis, her confidant in all affairs domestic. This was 
but the beginning of Mary Jane's discontent which increased until she 
was finally given notice, and mother decided that for a time at least 
there should be no more Mary Janes. She called to her aid Phyllis, 
aged nine, her sister Aline three years older, and father. A session was 
held, and the result was a unaminmous decision to join forces with 
specialized help in running the machinery of the home themselves. In 
other words, they determined that as they were all able-bodied and will- 



494 THE jotHRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

ing, they would do what they could by teamwork, and leave the rest 
to specialists called in by the day or hour. 

It was winter when the plan was started. The house having no 
furnace, was heated downstairs by open fires, and upstairs by a coal oil 
stove. Father's duty was to bring up coal from the basement each 
morning, and to keep the oil stove filled. Phyllis made her bed and 
dusted the upstairs sitting room. As Aline devoted one hour each morn- 
ing to her music, she could rarely do more before school. The breakfast 
was prepared by mother. When the children had gone to school, she 
washed the dishes, tidied the kitchen, prepared the vegetables, and often 
made a pie or cake for the evening meal. Then she dusted living and 
dining rooms. The upstairs work, including the mopping up of the 
bathroom, occupied an hour more, and by ten o'clock she was ready for 
market. Food was bought for several days, thus eliminating the 
necessity of daily marketing. Twice a week, the children took their 
lunches to school, leaving mother free to lunch downtown, do her shop- 
ping, or pay a social call until half past two o'clock. On the days the 
children came home, she rested after lunch, then sewed and read, and 
occasionally invited friends to come in for an informal visit. The even- 
ing meal did not, as a rule, require more than an hour in the kitchen. 
The little girls set and cleared the table, and together they washed and 
dried the dishes. 

The remainder of the housework was done by specialists. The wash- 
ing was sent to the laundry. Once a week a Japanese boy vacuumed the 
rugs, polished the floors, scrubbed the kitchen, and thoroughly cleaned 
the pantry. 

Of course, mother was not so free to come and go as she had been with a 
maid but she had more time to read, to take up French and to become 
acquainted with her neighbors. These neighbors were pleasant and 
helpful. Like herself, several of them were managing their homes with- 
out maids. They suggested that, if they were at home any afternoon, the 
children come to them after school; then mother need not hurry home. 
The offer was eagerly accepted and reciprocated to the advantage of the 
neighbors. 

Another delightful and old-fashioned phase of life sprang from the 
family's solution of the help question. Mother found that a number of 
her friends, experimenting in running their households without maids, 
had no kindly disposed neighbors; so she proposed that when a friend 
came for the afternoon the children accompany her. The proposition 



1922) TEAMWORK IN THE FAMILY 495 

was accepted, and the children played happily outdoors or upstairs, 
while their mothers chatted and sewed. 

Advantages accrued to Phyllis and Aline from this solution of the 
help problem. The sense of responsibility strengthened their character; 
the duties were lessons in household training; the experience supple- 
mented theory. Aline, whose school curriculum included cooking, was 
given the opportunity to test her knowledge at home. Mary Jane had 
allowed no school girl to experiment in her kitchen, but mother not only 
permitted but encouraged her. 

This teamwork proved economical too. The extra laundry bills and 
the sum paid specialists about equaled the maid's wages, but the cost of 
her board was eliminated, as well as much waste and extravagance. 
Consequently, mother had quite a reserve sum in her purse at the end 
of the month. 

Aline and Phyllis were remunerated for their work. Mother gave 
each child twenty-five cents a week for services in general. Father 
paid for specific duties fulfilled. The making of a bed each morning was 
six cents a day; the dusting of a room, three cents; washing the bathtub, 
two cents; sweeping the front steps and sidewalk, three cents. An 
account of these daily earnings was entered in a little book, and each 
week it was presented to father who audited it, and paid them in a 
business-like manner. 

To mother the sweetest part of this cooperation on the children's 
part was the willingness, independent of reward, with which "they 
helped carry out her plan. To them it was a game to be played, and they 
played it happily and freely with mother and father as participants. 
Possibly their method would not have succeeded had the children been 
too young, for mother could not have carried out her plan without their 
aid. But under the conditions described it proved a success. It incur- 
red no hardship, no undue burden; rather it resulted in much happiness, 
much genuine comfort, and a return to those old-fashioned virtues that 
blossom best in a soil of mutual helpfulness and thoughtfulness. 



496 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

EARLY ENGLISH CUSTOMS 

ELEANOR r. WELLS 
State Normal School, Towson, Md. 

Once upon a time, when the world was young, and the battle of 
Hastings was perhaps in the making, Old England's homefires burned 
none the less brightly than today. But the fireplace was different. 
Let us peek for a bit into an old Saxon manor, a village in itself. Here, 
around a courtyard, clustered spinning house, bake house, and brew 
house; farm buildings reared their thatched roofs skywards; oxstalls, 
pigsties, and slaughterhouses hobnobbed with sheep and dovecots; a 
tiny chapel nestled in its niche. One postern gate, Jealously guarded, 
gained admission to the whole. Did not De Bois Guilbert and the 
Jolly Prior of Jorvaulx sound their horns full loudly at the gate, before 
entrance was granted them to Cedric's Hall? Nor was it any easier to 
venture outside that barred door, when once within. Only a bribe to 
the swineherd, be it remembered, could lift that magic lock to the dis- 
guised Ivanhoe, on his early morning departure. 

Such an estate is the Baronial Hall of Penshurst, in Kent. This 
structure shows the original architecture unsullied by our modem touch. 
The hall is large and spacious. The lofty arches of panelled oak give 
it great height. The floor is brick; probably in early periods it was 
strewn with rushes. In the center of the floor is an octagon shaped 
space, about one and one-half yards wide, marked out with a rim of 
stone; inside is a massive old fire dog. Smoke from the fire ascended 
through a hole in the roof. From one end of the hall, large Gothic 
windows look down on the room; two long tables of split oak border 
either side of the hall. Here on rough benches, the family retinue, and 
lesser guests munched their brawn and drank their ale. My lord and 
lady of the manor dined on a raised platform or dais, at one end of the 
room. At the other, a tall wainscoat "screen" supports a music gallery. 
The space beyond is a concealed passage where basins of water were 
provided for the underlings to wash their hands. The guests were 
served fingerbowls. 

The Saxon kitchen was a large room, sometimes thirty feet square, 
with an open drain running through its center. As many as three fire 
places were often in use at once. The smoke from the blaze escaped 
through the center of the roof. Before these fires the poor kitchen 



1922] EARLY ENGLISH CUSTOMS 497 

scullions crouched upon their haunches, and turned the spit. Old 
pictures show a long rod, horizontal with, and a few feet from, the floor, 
propped up by rests. At either end was an unfortunate youth, turning 
the heavy iron which held speared a string of fowl for the coining meal. 
Charcoal fires gleamed red under the sizzhng meat. Wood was gathered 
from the nearby forest, and thorns for crackling under the pots. Coal 
was a thing unknown. Huge cauldrons of iron and copper reflected the 
glow of the ruddy blaze. 

Dinner, the formal meal of the day, was served about ten in the 
morning. Tables, like long trestle boards, were placed down the center 
of the room. Handwoven linen tablecloths covered their rough ugliness. 
The diners filed to their places "in the order of their going." First came 
the master of the house and his guests. His secretary pompously led 
the retinue of chancellors, marshalls, steward, master of the horse, 
chaplain, and choristers chanting grace. Then followed the constable, 
pages, trumpeters, and finally the jester. When all the guests and 
retainers were assembled, the master steward knocked loudly on the 
table, and the blessing was chanted. The alms dish was then brought 
forward. "To serve God first" was the motto, and no food was touched 
until a loaf of bread was placed in the alms dish. This was in constant 
circulation for further contributions, during the meal, for the benefit of 
the deserving poor at the gate. 

The salt cellar, sometimes of gold and fashioned in strange devices, 
played an important part in the seating of the guests. It was placed 
midway the table, as a boundary of distinction. All seated between 
it and the head of the table were marked guests; those of inferior rank 
sat below. The modem superstition about salt dates from this 
period. It was the custom to throw a pinch over the left shoulder, or 
to help oneself, muttering a blessing, and it augured ill to spill any, or 
to help another. 

Ladies and gentlemen sat side by side at table, so that they might 
share the same plate. An old book of "Courtasye" warns one, "If you 
eat with another, turn the nicest pieces to him, and do not go picking out 
the finest and largest for yourself." 

With all the guests seated at the table, a blare of trumpets announced 
the dinner. A train of servants entered, bearing pewter platters with 
huge joints of meat, and fowl and game were carried in on spits. Each 
guest helped himself by tearing oft" his meat with his hands. Small 
wonder there was need of fingerbowls! Each person brought his own 



498 THE jovTKSAz OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

knife and a whetstone hung near each chair, lest the steel prove too dull. 
The pastries and loaves of bread were not forgotten. Wine, ale, and beer 
were served in silver cups to those above the salt cellar ; those below, 
quaffed their thirst in pewter or in horn. Three hours or more were 
given over to the feast while jesters, tumblers, jugglers, and minstrels 
amused the guests. 

Not so much ceremony was manifest among the lesser nobles. But 
we know that the country franklin was "Epicurus' own son." 

Withouten bake mete never was his hous, 
Of fish and flesh and that so plenteous 
It snewed in this hous of mete and drink 
Of alle dainties that men coud of thinke. 
Woe was his cook but if his sauce were 
Poinant and sharpe, and redy all his gear.' 

The absence of vegetables is noticeable in the dietary. Potatoes were 
at that tim.e unknown. Cabbages were imported for the next three hun- 
dred years. Considering the amount and kind of food served, it is 
small wonder few lived to reach old age. The poorer folk were better 
off. Albeit their food was limited, the black bread, peas, and bacon 
proved a more balanced ration than that of their aristocratic neighbors. 
Contrast this living with that of their feudal lords, who breakfasted at 
seven on white bread, beef, and wine, dined at ten, supped at four, and 
between eight and nine partook of a "reve-supper," an evening collation 
of bread, ale, and spiced wine. 

The housewife of the period was in full charge of her household. An 
extract from the diary of Elizabeth Woodville, queen to Edward IV 
reads : 

6.00 A.M. Breakfast. Buttock of beef rather too much boiled, and the ale a little the 
stalest. Memo, to tell cook about the first fault, and to mend the second myself, by tapping 
a fresh barrel directly. 

10 00 A.M. Went to dinner. 

7 .00 P.M. Supper at table. The goose pie too much baked, and the loin of pork almost 
roasted to rags. 

Gifts of eatables were common forms of courtesy. One donation 
given by the Mayor of Coventry to Margaret of Anjou on her sojourn 
through that city is listed as "three hundred loaves of fine bread, a pipe 
of red wine, a dozen capons, a dozen grete fate pykes." Such a donation 

' Chaucer: Canterbury Tales. 



1922] EARLY ENGLISH CUSTOMS 499 

would be rather appalling in this day, even with our modem cold storage 
facilities. But travelling, at that period, included a large retinue; 
inns were few and far between, and the food served there questionable; 
therefore the cook with his pots and pans, was an important item in the 
"companie." 

William the Conqueror brought a full kitchen force ^\^th him to 
England. A glance at one of his menus makes one feel that his warriors 
won their battle on the field of Hastings with the meal in prospect, for, 
having once consumed it, there could have been little incentive for aught 
else. An example of one of his meals runs: 

First course: Boar's head with its tusks in its snout, garnished with 
flowers. 

Second course: Venison, cranes, peacocks, swans, wild geese, kids, 
pigs, and hens. 

Third course: Spiced and seasoned meat, with wine, red and white. 

Fourth course: Pheasants, woodcocks, partridges, larks, plovers. 

Fifth course: Sweetbreads, white powder (sugar?). 

The peacock was a favorite dish, and was often skinned, cooked, and 
then put back in its glowing vestments again. Birds were served in 
their "coffyns." Here we get the evolution of our modern pie. After 
a joust-at-arms a banquet was often served. Among other foods, a 
peacock, still in its plumage, was placed in a "coffyn of paste," the neck 
erect, tail expanded about the crust, and comb richly gilded. Carried 
into the hall on a silver dish, heralded by a blast of trumpets, it was 
placed before some knight, victorious in the day's tourney. "Rising, 
it was the custom to break the crust, vowing at the same time to rescue 
some captive lady from some mythical monster, or die though his vow, 
like the pie crust, was made to be broken." 

Books of etiquette of the period indicated close attention to manners, 
although in reading them one feels the rules should pertain more to 
children than to adults. One reads "Set never on fish, flesh, nor fowl, 
more than two fingers and a thumb. Look they nails be clean lest they 
fellows loathe thee." A conservative statement admonishes one "if thou 
spit on the table thou shalt be considered discourteous." The aspirant 
for food should "nurture it," and not cram his cheeks like an ape, nor 
yet must he blow upon it. There were requests not to turn back to your 
plate the food you have just put in your mouth, nor to offer another 
person the remains of your pottage. Not to eat too much cheese, nor to 
take more than two or three nuts when placed before you, were more 



500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

esthetic mandates. We find suggestions, that the mouth be wiped be- 
fore drinking, lest grease go into the wine, "which is unpleasing to those 
who drink from the same cup." 

The nun in Canterbury Tales seems to be perfection in all that should 
be: 

She let no morsel from hir lippes falle 
Ne wette hir fingers in hir sauce depe. 
Wei koude she carie a morsel and wel kepe, 
That no drope ne felle upon hir breste. 
Hir over lippe wj-ped she so clene 
That on hir coppe ther was no ferthy sene. 

Recipes have come down to us from such interesting books as the 
"Form of Cury," a cook book compiled by the master cooks of Richard 
II. One curious combination is a dish called "Cockyn trice." The 
cook is directed to take a capon, scald it, clean it, and "smyte it in two at 
the waist," and do the same to a pig; then sew the forepart of the capon 
to the hind part of the pig, and the forepart of the pig to the hind part 
of the capon, and stuff them. For stuffing, one may "pound an ounce of 
pepper, honey, and wine. Make it hot. Break a dry biscuit into bits 
and mix. Stir with a twig of green laurel, and boil until all is 
thickened." 

"Montreuse" was a favorite dish eaten with a spoon. The Canter- 
bury Pilgrims were not without their knowledge of it. Their "coke," 
be it remembered, could "maken montreuse and wel bake a pie." The 
recipe reads, "Take hens and pork and boil them together. Take the 
flesh of the hens and of the pork, and hew it small, and grind it all to 
dust. Take grated bread, and put thereto, and temper it with broth, and 
mix it with the yolk of eggs, and cast thereon strong powder (a mixture 
of strong spices). Boil it, and put therein powder of ginger, sugar, 
saffron, and sale. Then look that it be stiff, and flour it with ginger 
powder." However stiff it may have been, I think we may feel assured 
of its hotness. This excess of spices must have rather overpowered the 
flavor of the meat. And in this, there may have been good reason, for 
early records show that butchers were punished for selling bad meat. 
At the best, their supply could not have been so good as ours, as there 
was no means of preserving it, except by salting it down. 

There were innumerable "potages and bruets" (soups and broths) 
with vegetables such as leeks, onions, cabbages, peas, turnips, and pars- 
nips. One dish known as "Joutex" consisted of violets, mallow, parsley, 



1922] EARLY ENGLISH CUSTOMS 501 

young cabbage, beet, tongue, and two or three marrow bones, boiled in 
fresh broth and seasoned with saffron and salt. It was served with 
bacon. 

Some of their sweets were very similar to ours. We read of cheese 
cakes, pancakes, and fritters. Some were made only of sugar, butter, and 
flour. Others boasted apples and ale, or figs in addition. A recipe for 
"Mylk Rosted" tells us to "Swynge (beat) eggs and sweet milk togeder, 
put thereto safTron, and boil it till it be thick." This suggests custard. 

The use of saffron was very extensive. With cochineal, it was in- 
troduced into sugar and pastry-devices known as "subtleties." They 
were used for table decoration in place of flowers. One description tells 
of a stag made of paste and filled with claret. An arrowis removed from 
the stag and life blood, in the shape of claret oozes out. Large pastries 
were placed on either side of the stag, which on being cut, let loose live 
frogs and birds — verily a "pretty dish to set before the king." 

Thus as we look through the dim ages of the past, we behold strange 
customs, foods, and ways of living. Courser and rougher, perhaps we 
find the people, than those that we know today, who have felt with the 
passing generations the softening influence of easy living conditions. 
We have outgrown many of the harsher traits, although we still have 
some buffoonery left. The necessity for the "Book of Courtesaye" we 
hope is passing out of existence. The better qualities of our ancestors, 
their courage, enterprise, and hospitality, may we always keep, andaswe 
pass on. what may our descendants write of us? Who knows? 



EDITORIAL 

The Convention in the West. For two years home economics women 
have looked forward with keen interest to the convention to be held at 
Corvallis. Now that it has actually come to pass, we know that no 
anticipation was beyond the mark, no picture too rosy. The West has 
won us all — that great, beautiful country whose people measure their 
hospitality to match their moimtains. 

A feeling of power was in the group of seven hundred women who 
gathered at the Oregon Agricultural College. With a membership of 
over three thousand, with twenty-five states already affiliated and 
twenty more ready to affiliate during the fall, they saw the vision of the 
possibilities for service of such an organization. The recognition by the 
Board of Education of Portland, the Chambers of Commerce of Port- 
land and Corvallis, the Progressive Business Men's League, the Uni- 
versity of Oregon, and the Oregon Agricultural College was encouraging 
and gratifying. 

An appreciation of the larger relationships of the Association and of 
every member was the keynote of the meeting. Our contribution to the 
health movement, to legislation, to all phases of child welfare, to prob- 
lems of the home and the commimity were so emphasized as to chal- 
lenge home economics women in whatever field they may serve. The 
excellent program, strong, well-balanced, and coherent, demonstrated 
the sound development of every section and of the Association as a 
whole. 

The convention was a time of stimulating companionship and in- 
spiration to the hundreds of young women who attended this as their 
first annual meeting. It meant renewed enthusiasm and confidence 
to all who have faithfully built the Association through the years. It 
will ever remain a gracious memory and a thriUing promise. 

An Appreciation. Many persons contributed to the unusual success of 
the convention. The Journal, as the voice of the Association, expresses 
sincere appreciation to all of these and especially to the following: 
Miss Nina Streeter, whose tireless efforts in arranging for the "Special" 
afforded a delightful trip across the country to the groups starting at 
Chicago and St. Paul; Miss Helen Davis and her committee who pre- 
pared the excellent program; Miss Bernice Waite who organized the 
interesting exhibits; Miss Zelta Feike whose capable management 
of the publicity resulted in widespread and satisfactory comments on 
502 



1922] EDIT0RL4L 503 

all addresses; to Dean Milam, her devoted staff and students, whose 
organization and arrangements were perfectly carried out in every 
detail. 

Place of Meeting. The Association at the recent annual meeting 
accepted the invitation of the University of Chicago to hold the next 
annual meeting in Chicago during the early part of August, and the 
invitation of the National Society for Vocational Education to hold a 
joint meeting in Detroit November 30 and December 1 and 2. This 
arrangement for the midwinter meeting inaugurates a new policy of 
meeting from year to year with societies of related interests rather than 
with the Division of Superintendence of the N. E. A. The perfection 
of arrangements for the Corvallis meeting made very apparent to the 
Association the importance of making arrangements for meetings well 
in advance. The Committee on Time and Place for the two meetings 
subsequent to the Chicago meeting has therefore been asked to report 
at Detroit. Invitations should be in the hands of the Chairman, Miss 
Cleora Helbing, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 
in time for action in Detroit. 

The Diet of the Nursing Mother. The general prescription of a 
diet, during lactation, consisting of plenty of good, wholesome, easily 
digested food exemplifies the vagueness of our knowledge concerning 
the actual food needs for ideal milk production. It is known that diet 
has much to do with quantity of the yield and that quality is affected 
by the food of the mother, noticeably so in such marked cases of poor 
nutrition as beri-beri, pellagra and the semi-starvation of war-ridden 
Europe. McCoUum' cites many instances of this kind. What a man 
inherits in the way of physical vigor is accepted quite generally to be 
largely dependent upon his food during the early months of life and even 
upon the state of nutrition of the mother during his foetal life. Hence 
we eagerly await a better understanding of the nursing mother's food 
requirements. 

The old saying that "milk makes milk" is not true in the literal sense 
but the quality of the food does determine the constitution of the milk. 
Meigs^ in summarizing the studies of the effect of changes in rations 
upon the milk yield of animals, makes it clear that protein plays a 
dominant part in the regulation of milk secretion. Greater differences 

' McColIum, E. v., The newer knowledge of nutrition, 1922. 

» Meigs, E. B., Milk secretion as related to diet, Physiol. Rev. 2, 204 (April, 1922). 



504 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

can be made in the volume of milk by changing the protein intake to 
another level than by changing either the fat or the carbohydrate to a 
comparable degree. When the protein of the food is increased, the 
per cent of protein in the milk is not noticeably increased but the volume 
of milk is so enlarged that there is a decided increment in the total pro- 
tein and other nutrients secreted for the day. This summary also states 
that changes in the amount of carbohydrate fed have no immediate 
or significant effect upon either the total milk secretion or its composi- 
tion. Changes in fat intake may alter the composition slightly though 
not the volume of milk. 

All of which hints at the light which recent experiments are shedding 
upon the chemistry of milk elaboration. In his review of the literature 
Meigs evaluates the theories concerning the source of the constituents 
of milk. The mammary gland manufactures its lactose from the glucose 
it takes from the blood. The phosphatid carried to the gland by the 
blood is the precursor of milk fat. The proteins are built up from free 
amino acids. 

Many difficulties attend a quantitative determination of the food 
needed for the support of milk production. The available data indicate, 
Meigs says, that in animals it requires two grams of protein to produce 
one gram of milk protein and two grams of total nutrients to produce 
one gram of total nutrients, in addition to the food for maintenance. 
Probably some such ratio exists in human feeding for milk production 
also. The quantity of protein to be allowed in the diet would be de- 
termined partly by the quality of the proteins fed, those of an amino 
acid content suitable for the synthesis of milk proteins being used most 
efficiently. Hartwell' reports that rats can suckle their young suc- 
cessfully on a low protein diet when the proteins are from a bread and 
milk combination. Koobler* found that proteins of milk and meat were 
not any more adequate for milk production by women than the protein 
of nut mixtures. Others have demonstrated also the satisfactory 
nature of nut proteins.* A rather generous use of milk in the mother's 
food would furnish protein of a good qualit}^ to aid in forming milk 
proteins and to increase the volume of milk yielded ; to this extent could 
it be said that milk makes milk. 

Sybil Woodruff. 

'Hartwell, G. A., Effect of diet on mammary secretion, Biochem. Jour., IS, 140 (1921). 
' Hoobler, B. R., The effects on human milk production of diets containing various forms 
and quantities of protein, Amer. Jour. Dis. Child, 14, 105 (1917). 

' Editorial, Nuts for our proteins. Jour. Home Econ., 13, 232 (1921). 



1922] EDITORIAL 505 

The Textile Collections in the United States National 
Museum. It may not be known to many readers of the Journal that 
there have been developed, in the National Museum at Washington, 
collections of raw fibers, woven and knitted fabrics, and other articles 
bearing on the textile industry. Since this industry ranks first in the 
number of wage earners employed, and is only exceeded by food-stuffs 
and the iron and steel industry in the value of the products produced, 
the exhibits in the National Museum are arranged to show the American 
citizen what the textile industry means to him and to the United States. 

The collections are arranged to show what raw materials are used and 
how these are worked up into yarn and cloth ; the types of fabrics manufac- 
tured for special uses, how these are constructed and decorated, and to 
what use these fabrics are put. Through the cooperaion of a number 
of the best American manufacturers of textiles, new fabrics are shown to 
the public as soon as they are brought out and very often before they 
have become generally known. 

The National ISIuseum is a Government bureau under the adminis- 
tration of the Smithsonian Institution, and to it is assigned the care and 
preservation of aU objects of scientific interest presented to our Govern- 
ment, or acquired as a result of the expenditure of Government funds, 
when such objects are not in actual use by some other bureau or govern- 
mental body. Although but one of the important functions of the 
Museum, this one, in which it serves as a place of deposit of valuable 
historical records in the form of actual specimens, is very generally 
overlooked. Some of the material thus acquired is of popular interest 
and is made use of in the installation of exhibits arranged and labelled 
to attract the attention of the average visitor. The greater part of the 
national collections, however, are not on exhibition in the general sense, 
but are kept in special rooms for the use of the technical and scientific 
student and investigator. 

The textile collections are developed along this same general plan and 
have been arranged in an exhibition series and a technical or reference 
series. The part of the collections shown to the general public and ex- 
hibited in glass cases are arranged in the following seven main groups: 

(1) The source, preparation, and manufacture of the most important 
spinning fibers: cotton, wool, silk, flax, hemp, and jute. (2) The 
manner of making yam, thread, cloth, felt, and lace, shown by models, 
photographs, and some full-sized machines. (3) Woven structures, 
typical weaves, and standard fabrics, arranged according to construction 



506 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

and use. (4) The ornamentation of textiles by dyeing, block and roller 
printing, stencilling, weaving, and embroidery. (5) The use of fibrous 
materials for hats, baskets, mats, brooms, and brushes. (6) Cordage 
fibers for all sorts of twine, cords, ropes, and examples of the uses to 
which they are put. (7) Important textile inventions, such as the first 
cotton spinning machine made in America; original model of Whitney 
cotton gin; the first sewing machine to sew a seam, etc. 

The technical or reference series of the textile collections is the one most 
likely to be of interest to teachers of home economics. It chiefly com- 
prises a comprehensive and constantly increasing collection of authentic 
examples of raw fibers and textile fabrics. Specimens in the exhibition 
series are replaced by new ones as often as necessary to keep the exhibits 
looking fresh and representative of patterns and designs on the market. 
The specimens so replaced are then put in the technical series and kept 
as a record of changes in the industry. These specimens also form the 
basis of a textile glossary, now in course of preparation, which will be 
based, as far as possible, upon actual specimens. Now that standard 
methods of examining and testing fabrics for count, weave, strength, 
and wear, are being adopted, it becomes all the more necessary that the 
fabrics themselves be standardized and known by distinctive names. 
The National Museum is endeavoring to collect and preserve examples 
of all types of fabrics put upon the market from time to time. 

The N^ational Museum wishes to be of srvice to teachers of home 
economics and invites all who visit Washington to examine the national 
collections. For those who cannot avail themselves of this pleasure, 
the curator and his assistants will be glad, as far as time and the equip- 
ment permit, to identify and compare with the textiles, in the Museum's 
collections, any samples submitted by teachers or other workers in home 
economics. 

F. L. Lewton, 
Curator, Division of Textiles. 

OPEN FORUM 

The Service of the Library to the Home Economics Department. 

Books on home economics, in common with those of other subjects, do 
not include all the material needed in the class room and consequently 
supplementary material must be used. Pictures, lantern slides, educa- 
tional exhibits, clippings, pamphlets, books, all these may be put to use 



1922] OPEN FORUM 507 

in widening and deepening the instruction in the home economics 
department and in creating a greater interest on the part of the students 
in preparing assigned topics. 

Sources of pictures are duplicate copies and odd numbers of old maga- 
zines, picture sections of newspapers, sets sent out by manufacturing 
firms, pictures of the furnishings of different rooms in the house, pic- 
tures of costumes, particularly historical charts and bulletins. 

Sometimes the history and geography departments have lantern slides 
to illustrate interior decoration, costume, and the cultivation and manu- 
facture of commodities. Look over the catalogs of different firms deal- 
ing in lantern slides and you may find some that are exactly what you 
need. 

Clippings from newspapers and magazines will increase the resources 
of the library especially on many small, relatively unimportant subjects 
or on new subjects about which there is little information. When more 
information is available these clippings may be thrown away. Pam- 
phlets offer a mass of material singularly useful. They are issued by 
manufacturing firms, the federal and state governments, home economics 
departments, and agricultural experiment stations. Be on the watch 
for notices of valuable pamphlets. The monthly catalog of United 
States public documents and the monthly catalog of state publications, 
both obtainable from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, 
D. C. are invaluable. The Booklist each month has a list of pamphlets, 
and the Journal includes pamphlets in its bibliography. 

Catalogs of firms dealing in refrigerators, heating apparatus, and 
other household equipment may be kept for the use of home economics 
classes. Certain magazines should be subscribed for regularly, and the 
back numbers kept on file. Many of the magazines, devoted almost 
exclusively to fashions, are quite expensive and of only temporary use. 
It is more satisfactory, especially with limited funds, to buy at local 
news stands only those numbers needed. Three or four different maga- 
zines thus obtained for fall, winter, and spring use would give a wider 
choice than if only one such magazine were subscribed for regularly. 

Books must be bought for the home economics department. The 
several volumes of the United States Catalog will give the author, title, 
and publisher of books published some time ago; price is also given but 
this must be looked up in the Publishers Trade List Annual, latest 
edition, to get the corrected price. The Cumulative Book Index will 
help in selecting recent books. The Book Review Digest, with its 



508 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

descriptive notes and abstracts of book reviews, which have been pub- 
lished in a selected list of magazines and book sections of newspapers, 
is an almost indispensable aid. Plus and minus signs are used to show 
whether a review is favorable or unfavorable. 

After the books have been received, the librarian sees that they are 
adequately cataloged for circulation and are delivered to the teacher of 
home economics. Reserve shelves maj'' be set apart in the library. 

Pictures and clippings may be kept in a vertical file, classified by the 
decimal classification or arranged alphabetically by subject, using the 
subject headings of the Reader's Guide. Pamphlets may be kept in 
pamphlet covers and cataloged, provided they are likely to be in rather 
constant demand; those of less value miay be kept in a pamphlet box 
with books on the same subject, and entered under the general subject 
only in the catalog; or they may be kept in a vertical file arranged like 
the pictures and clippings. 

If the library is to be of the highest value to the students each one 
must know how to use it. Sometimes the English and history depart- 
ments give half or whole recitation periods to the librarian for this in- 
struction. Why should not the home economics department do this? 
The librarian, not the teacher, should give the instruction in the rules of 
the library, the location of books, the use of the catalog, and the finding 
of books on the shelves. Later on, the use of common reference books 
and of magazine indexes should be explained. By means of this instruc- 
tion, the students can readily look up material for topics, not only in 
the high school library but also in the public library used to supplement 
the school library. 

Mary Josephine Booth, 
Librarian Eastern Illinois 
Stale Teachers College. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Foods of llie Foreign Born in Relation to 
Health. By Bertha M. Wood. Boston: 
Whitcomb & Barrows, 1922, pp. 98. S1.25. 
In her work as dietitian for the food clinic 
at Boston Dispensary, ^Nliss Wood has an 
enviable opportunity for intimate study 
of the food habits of a large number of our 
foreign born peoples. The contrast made 
by the phj'sically sound, weU developed 
immigrants to the pale under nourished 
children found in these same groups, after 
a short time of residence in American cities, 
has struck every one who comes in close 
contact with them. Miss Wood says: "the 
Polish children and those of other Sla\'ic 
peoples come from a sturdy race. Upon 
arrival in this Countrv' they have round, well 
shaped heads, rosy cheeks, and strong bodies. 
With their kerchiefs over their heads they 
make a fascinating picture of health. They 
have an abundance of mild and fresh air in 
their own countries. Here they live at 
first in crowded districts and milk is counted 
as a drink, not something to eat; they eat 
what the grown ups have and they pay 
the price." 

The poorer food doubtless accounts partly 
for these changes. Recognizing the diiE- 
culty encountered by people with limited 
experience, narrow knowledge of food 
materials, and small income in changing 
their food habits, Miss Wood presents 
material designed to help the nurse, teacher, 
dietitian, and social worker who are trying 
to help them make the adjustment. A 
brief account is given of the native foods 
and the manner of their preparation for the 
follo^vings groups: Mexicans, Portugese, 
Italians, Hungarians, Poles and other Slavic 
peoples, Armenians, Syrians, Turks, and 
Greeks. 

The book contains a number of recipes, 
for each nationality, in which American food 
materials are used. Many of the recipes 
are of elaborate dishes which would consume 
much time and better equipment than the 
households of most immigrants contain. 
The book would perhaps be more valuable if 
greater space were given to the simpler 



dishes. The latter are, however, not entirely 
neglected, and examples can be found for 
each nationality. 

A special valuable feature of the book is 
the compilation of diets adapted to each 
nationality, and recipes for such diseases as 
diabetes, tuberculosis, and nephrites. 

Throughout the book emphasis is laid 
on the desirable points in the diet of each 
group and use of them in constructing a 
new dietary which will be possible under 
the conditions the immigrant finds here. It 
is a valuable contribution to the scanty 
literature on the subject, greatly needed 
by those who are trying to help the foreign 
family make the necessary changes in their 
habits. Too frequently the worst of our 
American customs, instead of the better 
ones, are adopted. 

Florence NESBrri, 
United Charities of Chicago. 

The Vilamines. By Casimir Funk. 

Authorized Translation from the Second 

German Edition by Harry E. Dubin. 

Baltimore: Williams & Willuns Co., pp. 

502, 1922. $5.50. 

The development of our knowledge of the 
deficiency diseases and the relation of the 
vitamins to them has been one of the strilcing 
features in the development of the science 
of nutrition in the past decade. Less than 
ten years ago in October, 1913, Dr. Funk 
made one of the pioneer attempts to collect 
the facts, weld them into theories and to 
suggest new lines of research in the field of 
vitamins, and the first edition of the present 
work resulted. Since that time, vitamin 
studies have multiplied, as is attested by the 
extensive bibliography of more than sixteen 
hundred titles in the present edition. 

Two other monographs on vitamins have 
appeared in this country recently, but the 
present volume is more extended in scope 
than eitlier of the others. On the other 
hand, it reflects more closely the views of 
one man on the subject although the cita- 
tions from the literature are extensive. As 
Dr. Funk himself admits in his preface, he 

509 



510 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



feels "justified now in reviewing only those 
investigations the viewpoint of which is not 
too far removed from ours.''. Dr. Funk is 
a vitamin enthusiast ^3 in bis desire to 
include all vitamin material, has discussed 
certain diseases, the relation of vitamins 
to which is problematical at present. Espe- 
cially is this true of those included in the last 
two chapters, as, for example, pneumonia, 
anemia, exophthalmic goitre, and diabetes. 
Particularly interesting to the reviewer is 
the discussion of that peculiar disease of the 
South African cattle, lamzietke, pica, or, as 
recently discussed by Dr. Green, osteo- 
phagia. The inclusion of many of these 
diseases of doubtful etiology has added 
greatly to the value of the book. 

Throughout, Dr. Funk has preferred to 
retain the name "vitamines" originally 
suggested by him in 1912. He points out 
that the fact that it has become popular, 
desiiite efforts to supplant it, proves its 



desirability, as "a badly chosen catch word 
like a folk song without feeling can never 
become popular." 

The subject matter is divided into three 
parts: "the vitamine requirements of plants 
and animals; chemistry, physiology, and 
pharmacology of the vitamines; and the 
human avitaminoses — conditions in which 
the vitamines play a role." In the first 
part, a clearer differentiation of the quan- 
titative variations in the vitamin require- 
ments of different species would be desir- 
able. This variation as pointed out recently 
by Mitchell in Science has led to no little 
confusion. 

Throughout, the translator, who is for- 
tunate in his personal association with Dr. 
Funk in his researches, has caught the spirit 
of the author. The book well deserves a 
place on the shelves of all nutrition libraries. 
Howard B. Lewis, 

University of Michigan, Medical School. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 



PERIODICAL LITERATURE 



Food and Nutrition 



Adair, F. L. and Stewart, C. A. Milk Ingestion in Relation to Changes in Body Weight of 

New Bom Infants. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 1865-1869. 
Atkinson, H. V., Rapport, D. and Lusk, G. Animal Calorimetry. XXII. The Production 

of Fat from Protein. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 53: 155-166. 
Aub, J. C. The Relation of the Internal Secretions to Metabolism. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 

1922, 79: 95-98. 
Auerbacher, L. J. Dry IMilk— Historical and Clinical. Mod. Hasp.. 1922, 19: 52-54. 
Beall, C. G. Report on an Outbreak of Botulism. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 79: .i8, ,W. 
Blatherwick, N. R. and Long, M. L. Studies on Urinary Acidity 1. Some Effects 

of Drinking Large Amounts of Orange Juice and Sour Milk. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, S3: 

103-109. 
Chick, H., Dalyell, E. J., Hume, AI., Mackay, H. M. M. and Smith, H. H. The Etiology 

of Rickets. Lamel, 1922, 203: 7-12. 
Damon, S. R.: Observations on the Distribution of Vitamin B. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 

79: 128, 129. 
Drummond, J. C. and ZUva, S. S. Nutritive Value of Edible Oils and Fats. /. Soc. Chem. 

Ind., 1922,41: 125-127 T. 
Eddy, W. H. A Challenge and Its Sequel: The Prevention of Rickets. Teachers College 

Record, 1922, 23: 160-175. 
Faber, H. K. Food Requirements in New Bom Infants. A Study of the Spontaneous 

Intake. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 24: 56-72. 



1922] BIBLIOGR-APHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 511 

Fawcett, L. C. High School Cafeterias Fill Dietary Need. Nalions Health, 1922, 4: 383. 
Finks, .\. J., Jones, D. B. and Johns, C. O. The R6le of Cystine in tlie Dietary. Properties 

of the Proteins of the Cow Pea, Vigna sinensis and of the Field Pea, Pisuna sativum. 

/. Biol. Chem.. 1922, 52: 403-410. 
Fletcher, A. A. Dietetic Treatment of Chronic Nephritis and Its Relationship to the Sugar 

Tolerance. Arch. Int. Med., 1922, 30: 10&-117. 
Folin, Otto. Non Protein Nitrogen in Health and Disease. Physiol. Ren., 1922, 2: 400-478. 
Funk, C. Status of Oleomargarine in Nutrition. Nation's Health, 1922, 4: 393-396. 
Funnel!, E. H. A Suitable Diet for the Ward Patient. Mod. Hosp., 1922, 19: 55-57. 
Happ, W. j\l.: Occurrence of .'\nemia in Rats on Different Diets. Johns Hopkins Hasp. 

Bull., 1922, 33: 163-171. 
Hardt, L. L. J. Studies on the Cause of Pain in Gastric and Duodenal Ulcers. Peristalsis 

as the Direct Cause of Pain in Gastric Ulcers with Achylia and Duodenal Ulcers. Arck. 

Int. Med., 1922, 29: 684-689. 
Hart, E. B., Steenbock, H., and Lepkovsky, S. The Antiscorbutic Vitamine I. A Study 

of Its Solubility from Desiccated Orange Juice. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 241-250. 
Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J. Use of the Carbon Arc Light in the Prevention and Cure of 

Rickets. J. Am. Med. Assoc., 1922, 78: 1596-1598. 
Hess, J. H., Moore, J. J., and Calvin, J. K. E.xperimental Studies with Proprietary Vitamin 

Products. J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 1441-1445. 
Ivy, A. C, and WTiitlow, J. E. The Gastrin Theory Put to Physiological Test. Am. J. 

Physiol., 1922, 60: 578-588. 
Jones, C. M. Blood Pigment Metabolism and Its Relation to Liver Function. Arch. 

Int. Med., 1922, 29: 643-668. 
Joslin, E. P. Today's Problem in Diabetis in Light of Nine Hundred and Thirty Fatal Cases. 

/. Am. Med. Assoc. 1922, 78: 1506-1510. 
Kohman, E. E. Method for Determining Hydrogen Sulfide Evolved by Foods When Cooked 

at Various Temperatures. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1922, 14: 527-529. 
Langnorthy, C. F., and Deuel, H. J. Digestibility of Raw Rice, Arrowroot; Canna, Cassava, 

Taro, Tree-Fem and Potato Starches^ J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 251-261. 
Pappenheimer, A. M., McCann, G. F., and Zucker, T. F. Experimental Rickets in Rats, IV. 

Effect of Varying Inorganic Constituents of Rickets Producing Diet. V. Effect of 

Varying Organic Constituents of Rickets Producing Diet. /. Exp. Med., 1922, 35: 

421^46; 447-466. 
Powers, G. F., Park, E. A., Shipley, P. G., McColIum, E. V., and Simmonds, N. Studies 

on Experimental Rickets XIX. Prevention of Rickets in Rat by Means of Radiation 

With IMercury Vapor Quartz Lamp. Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., 1922, 33: 125-128. 
Reese, A. M. Unusual Human Foods. Sci. Mo., 1922, 14: 475-481. 
Sale, J. W., and Skinner, W. W. Relative Sweetness of Invert Sugar. /. Ind. Eng. Chem., 

1922, 14:522-525. 
Shannon, W. R. Eczema in Breast Fed Infants as a Result of Sensitization to Foods in 

the Mother's Dietary. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 392-405. 
Sharp, P. F., and Gortner, R. A. Physicochemical Studies in Strong and Weak Flours, II. 

The Imbibitiona! Properties of the Glutens from Strong and Weak Flours. J. Pliys. 

Chem., 1922, 26; 101-136. 
Sisson, W. R., and Denis, W. The Chlorin Content of Cow's and Goat's Milk and Formulas 

Commonly Used in Infant Feeding. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 431^37. 
Smith, W. B. The Composition of Soy Bean Oil. J. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1922, 14: 530, 531. 
Swoboda, F. K. Nitrogen Nutrition of Yeast. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 91-109. 



512 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Taylor, H. L. Are Eating Utensils Carriers of Tubercle Bacilli? Amer. Rev. Tuberculosis, 

1921, 5 : 351-355. 
Wolf, C. G. L. Some Human Digestion Experiments with Raw \Wute of Egg. /. Biol. 

Chem., 1922, 52: 207. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Briggs, J. F. The Dyeing of Acetyl Silk. Text. Colorist, 1922, 44: 306-308. 

Cook, R. A. Tm Weighring in Silk. Textile World, 1922, 61: 3185, 3187. 

Darby, W. D. Wool the Worids Comforter. Dry Goods Eton. 1922, No. 4060: 29; No. 

4061: 35, 37; No. 4062: 23, 25; No. 4063: 24, 25; 
Fisher, R. T. A Program of Research. Texlile World, 1922, 61: 2717, 2719, 2720a. 
Grimshaw, A. H. Measuring Stiffness of Sized Cloth. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2965, 2967. 
Herzog, A. Telling Linen from Cotton. Textiles, 1922, V. 20, No. 5 : 33, 41. 
Hirazuka, E. Studies of the Formation of Natural SUk Thread. Bull. Imp. Sericul. Sta., 

Nakano, Japan, 1203, 1918. 
Johnston, T. H. Raw Cotton Possibilities. Textile World, 1922, 61: 3405. 
Loebl, J. Pongee. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 326. 

Lowe, A. H. The Cotton Tarifi. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2693, 2695, 2697, 2699. 
Mell, C. D. Interestuig Sources of Natural DyestufEs. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 321-325. 
Neumann, E. Status of German Fibre Subsritutes. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2955, 2956. 
Renshaw, R. R., and Naylor, N. M. Dyes Containing the Furnane Cycle. Texlile Colorist, 

1922,44:317,318. 
Rood, E. S. Thermal Conductivity of Wearing Fabrics. Pliys. Rev., 1921, 18: 356-361. 
Schofield, J. Scouring and Milling. Posselt's Textile J., 1922, V. 30, No. 3, XVU-XIX. 
Steelman, J. ]\Iordants and Mordanting. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 313-315. 
Wilson, J. A. Some .Applications of the Nitrometer. Textile Colorist, 1922, 44: 300, 301. 
Brazil's Potentiality in Cotton Growing. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2837, 2838, 2961, 3034. 
Determining the Shrinkage of Woolen Fabrics. Fosselt's Textile J., 1922, 30: 53. 
Diameter of Yarns, Textile World, 1922, 61: 3187. 
Hand Loomed Cottons a Success. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2442. 
Imported vs. Domestic Goods. Textile World, 61: 3369, 3371. 
International Silk Testing. Textiles, 1922, V. 20, No. 5, p. 39. 
Leaders of China in Cotton Manufacturing. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2443, 2444. 
Movies in Cotton Research. Textile World, 1922, 61: 3330, 3375. 
New Tensile Tester for Cloth. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2853. 
Research Work in the Textile Industry. Textiles, 1922, V. 20, No. 5, p. 20. 
UtUization of Cotton Waste, Textile World, 1922, 61: 2850, 2851, 2857. 
Waterproofing Artificial Silk. Posselt's Textile J., 1922, V. 30, No. 3, p. 59. 
Worid Cotton Situadon. Textile World, 1922, 61: 2658. 

Miscellaneous 

Gray, H. Sitting Height and Stem Length in Private School Boys. Am. J. Dis^a a 

Children, 1922, 23: 406-418. 
Legge, R. L. A Course in Personal and Community Hygiene. The Narion's Health, 19^- , 

4: 275, 276. 
Meyer, H. A. Foot Fitting a Science. The Nation's Health, 1922, 4: 274. 
Works, G. A. New York Rural School Survey. HI. Its Recommendations. Educ. Rii:, 

1922, 63: 412-423. 
Baltunore's Public Laundries. The Nation's Health, 1922, 4: 279, 280. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Colorado Agricultural College. Two 
important conferences were held at the 
Collese during the Summer Session. At a 
five day conference of teacher; of vocational 
home economics, field problems were dis- 
cussed and plans made for a state survey 
and the development of a state course of 
study. During two weeks, beginning July 
17, the Southwest Division of the American 
Red Cross and the Colorado Agricultural 
College conducted a joint Institute for 
Public Health Nurses, the Department of 
Home Economics serving as the main 
college representative. The states in the 
southwest were well represented. 

The Health School, in which were enrolled 
girls and boys between the ages of nine and 
twelve, was a feature of the summer session. 
It served to stimulate interest in health 
habits in the children enrolled, and aroused 
a like interest in members of the dietetics 
class who assisted in the preparation of 
the Health School lunch. In previous years 
the department has conducted similar 
classes. 

NEW MEXICO 

Slimmer Work. Instruction in voca- 
tional home economics at Alamogordo does 
not cease with the closing of the high school 
in May, as Ruth Ann Morgan, who has 
charge of the work, is employed on a twelve 
months basis. Through home project work 
and home visits during tl e summer, home 
economics has become a community influ- 
ence. 

Following are some typical projects: 
Family laundry for a family of five; cleaning 
and renovating of hat; preparation and 
serving of dinners for a family of five; daily 
and weekly care of bedroom and clothes 
closet; garment construction, 1 dress, 2 
petticoats, remodeling of 1 dress; cleaning, 
pressing, and storing of winter clothing; care 
of three year old child for one week; planting 
and caring for smaU vegetable garden for 



9 weeks; Saturday baking for four weeks; 
laundering of own clothes for 6 weeks; 
canning of 12 quarts of peaches; preparation 
and serving of all meals for family of si.x for 
one week. 

NEW YORK 

Teachers College. The Summer Ses- 
sion has been a busy one in the development 
of research projects in the department of 
physiological chemistry. Work on the 
cabbage vitamin has proceeded and the re- 
sults will soon be published in this Journal. 
Not only have definite conclusions been 
reached as to the effect of cookery upon the 
vitamin in this vegetable, which will be of 
value to the housewife, but much has been 
added to our knowledge of the conditions 
wh.ich afTect this vitamin in general. Tlie 
department will cooperate with the Canner's 
Research Laboratory to carry the studies 
into the field of canning. 

Our studies in the field of vitamin B. have 
been advanced. During the coming year 
the department expects to make some 
definite contribution to the chemical nature 
of this substance. Dr. R. R. Williams has 
cooperated actively in this work. 

Another piece of work that promises 
practical results of general value has been a 
series of studies on the relative nutritive 
value of white flour breads prepared by 
standard and modified recipes. In this 
work the department is uniting forces with 
Professor Rose and the department of 
nutrition. 

Rena Eckman has completed the study 
of the peanut flour utilization as a source of 
protein and this combined with previous 
studies on vitamin content and recipe 
combinations is ready for publication. 

The present policy of the School is proving 
most satisfactory in enlisting the cooperative 
eflorts of the various departments of practical 
arts and in securing active participation of 
graduate students, who are thus enabled to 
have first hand contact with problems 
513 



514 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



that arise in this field. The variety of 
interest that this work arouses is also of 
value in the teaching development, for the 
students of regular courses are able to follow 
the experiments as observers even if they do 
not participate directly. 

Budget Service in Banks. Fifty re- 
quests for admission were received by the 
Department of Household Economics at 
Teachers College, following its announce- 
ment of a Summer Session course of training 
for budget work in banks. Eighteen appli- 
cants were accepted, the majority being 
with a broad background of home economics 
training and experience. Banks in Minne- 
apolis, Washington, New York and Water- 
ville, Maine, arranged for women in their 
personal service departments to take the 
course, and several applicants were admitted 
because of exceptional qualifications of 
experience in banking or in social work. 

All members of the group took the regular 
course in Budget IMethods which has been 
given at the college for several years, and 
also a special series of fifteen lectures on 
problems of work in banks, arranged by 
cooperation with the Women's Division 
of the National Association of Savings 
Banks. 

Ten hours a week were spent in field work 
under Personal Service Directors in four 
savings banks in New York, and twice a 
week these experiences were discussed at 
round table meetings. 

The Savings Service Bureau, conducted 
by the class at Columbia for four days 
near the end of the Summer Session, pro- 
vided a special opportunity for budget 
advising and for exhibition work. Observa- 
tion of desirable methods of popular thrift 
instruction was made possible through 
public e.xhibits and demonstrations arranged 
on three successive days by the Depart- 
ments of Household Administration, Textiles 
and Clothing, and Foods and Cookery. 

In Hotel Management, August, 1922. 
Grace M. Aird describes the educational 
work with the employees of the Hotel 
Pennsylvania, New York. English is taught 
to the non-English speaking employees. 



The head of each department instructs 
every one of his workers. Both untrained 
and experienced workers are subject to 
constructive criticism of those whose busi- 
ness it is to make all departments elhcient. 
Weekly meetings are held by the head house- 
keeper for the purpose of giving instruction 
in good taste and cleanUness. These 
meetings are supplemented by personal 
guidance and practical demonstrations for 
the training of chamber-maids and bath- 
maids, and by printed directions. Every 
service is standardized and an understanding 
of the dignity and importance of each 
piece of work is developed in the worker. 



The Ohio Home Economics Associa- 
tion will hold its first meeting of the year, 
Saturday, October 7, in the Women's Club 
.\uditorium, Dayton, Ohio. The subject 
of the meeting is "Scientific Feeding of the 
Public." Iilr. John Willy, Editor of the 
Holel Monthly, is to be one of the speakers. 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Pennsylania State College. More than 
50 courses in home management and al- 
lied subjects are to be given by tlie Depart- 
ment of Home Economics during the 
coming year. Among the subjects to be 
offered are primitive industries, elementary 
handwork, fine needle work, special methods 
and practice teaching, dress-making, dress 
design, millinery, clothing conservation, 
textiles, children's clothing, meal planning 
and serving, household finance, food preser- 
vation and demonstration cookery, child 
welfare and home nursing, history of cooking 
and table service, cookery and foods, 
nutrition, institutional housekeeping, school 
lunch, catering, cookery for men, institu- 
tional administration, dietetics, and methods 
of teaching vocational home economics. 

In order that the Department of Home 
Economics, in common with the other 
schools and departments of the college, may 
be expanded, it is planned to develop the 
institution into the Pennsylvania State 
University, with facilities to accommodate 
10,000 students. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



515 



A Cooperative Experiment. A die- 
tetics class and a practice teaching class of 
the Home Economics Department, and the 
School of Public Health Nursing of the 
University of Texas have cooperated in a 
piece of work centering around the nutrition 
and health problems of a Mexican com- 
munity. The problem has been attacked 
from two angles: the first, a nutrition class 
conducted by a group of Public Health 
nurses as part of the laboratory work of 
their class in dietetics; the seond, a cooking 
class for mothers of children in the nutrition 
class, conducted by one of the practice 
teachers in the home economics department. 
The nutrition class was made up of 
those children who were found to be 10 per 
cent or more underweight as determined 
by the public health nurses in their survey 
of the ilexican primary school. Twenty- 
two per cent of the children attending the 
school belonged in this group. The class 
was organized and conducted by the nurses 
taking dietetics, under the supervision of a 
member of the home economics department. 
The class work consisted of the teaching 
of better health and food habits through 
talks, stories, and charts. The children 
ranged from eight to thirteen years in age, 
but methods suitable for the youngest 
children proved most satisfactory for the 
group as a whole. The usual stories were 
modified when it was found that the ile.xican 
children are unacquainted with fairies. The 
class work was followed up by visits to the 
homes. A record, as of "case work," was 
kept of these visits. 

The work of the foods class for the mothers 
was outlined on the meal plan. The 
presence of se\eral small children made 
necessary the adaptation of adult food for 
children, and there was more than one 
occasion to illustrate how children may be 
induced to eat foods which they had at first 
refused. 



Home Demonstration Work. The 
appointment in June of three district home 
demonstration agents by the college board 



of directors is an indication of the growth 
of home demonstration work in Utah. 
These agents are Lillian Elder, Katherine 
Adams, and Mrs. Christine B. Clayton. 
All three are graduates of the Utah Agri- 
cultural College, have taught for several 
years in Utah high schools, and have 
had experience in social group work of va- 
rious types. The acquisition of additional 
workers at this period of financial depression 
is looked upon as a response to the genuine 
interest and demands of the women of the 
state for more home demonstration work. 
Organized and progressive project work has 
extended from five counties to seventeen 
counUes within the space of tw-o years. 



Ellen Brewer has accepted the position 
of Professor of Home Economics at Meredith 
College, Raleigh, N. C. 

Lillian Brice is an instructor in household 
arts at Hood College, Frederick, ild. 

Florence Churton, formerly of the Uni- 
versity of Illinois, is an instructor in the 
Southern Branch of the University of Cali- 
fornia, Los Angeles. 

Lucy Comfort is now an instructor in 
foods and cookery, Russell Sage College, 
Troy, N. Y. 

Harriet Glendon is Assistant Professor 
at Margaret Morrison College, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Mary Edna Groves has been appointed 
Supervisor of Home Economics in the 
Indian Schools of the United States. She 
is the first woman to hold this position. 
Her headquarters are Haskell Institute, 
Lawrence, Kansas. 

S. Deborah Haines is head of the 
Department of Home Economics, State 
Normal College, Ypsilanti, Jfichigan. 

Julia Mclntyre is an instructor in home 
economics at the State Normal College, 
Ypsilanti, Michigan. 

Helena Pope is the new head of the 
Department of Household Arts, University 
of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa. 

Edith Ranney has been appointed 
Assistant Professor of Home Economics, 
North Carolina College for Women, Greens- 
boro, N. C 



516 



THE JOURNAL OF HOilE ECONOMICS 



[October 



Child Health Program. The Common- 
wealth Fund has decided to finance a thor- 
ough child health program in three typical 
cities for a period of five years. The general 
qualifications of the first city to be selected 
are that it should be from 15,000 to 25,000 
in population with an infant mortality of 
approximately 100 per 1000 live births or 
greater. The Committee has decided that 
the first city to be assisted in developing a 
thorough program for child health will be 
selected from the upper half of the Missis- 
sippi Valley region. The program will 
comprise safe-guarding the health of the 
mother-to-be, laying a good health foun- 
dation for children in the early sensitive 
and formative period of their growth and 
health supervision, and the formation of 
the essential health habits in school children. 
The responsibility for carrying out this 
child health program is placed upon the 
American Child Hygiene Association and 
the Cliild Health Organization of America. 

The Committee in charge of general plans 
and policies say: "The work will be so 
developed as to enlist the cooperation of 
physicians, pubhc health nurses, school 
nurses, and all other individuals and agencies 
interested in health and chUd welfare in the 
communities selected. The interest and 
cooperation of teachers in the school health 
program will be vital to the success of the 
undertaking. No fund can finance a health 
program in every nook and comer of the 
country, but if the cities in which the 
demonstrations take place devote every 
available resource to making them practical 
working programs for all communities, the 
Commonwealth Fund will have made 
possible a long step forward to bring health 
and happiness to every chUd. 

Lantern Slide Lectures on Child Wel- 
fare. The National Child Welfare Associa- 
tion has arranged a series of lectures for 
presentation in meetings especially arranged 
for their use or in programs of regular gather- 



ings under the auspices of churches, clubs, 
schools, community centers, health centers, 
settlements. The material for each lecture 
consists of fifty of the highest grade colored 
lantern slides, complete manuscripts, brief 
introductory address for use by the chair- 
man of the meeting, directions for the most 
effective presentation of the slides, outlined 
newspaper announcements and press notices 
with which to arouse interest in the meeting. 
The first lecture is "Child Welfare — Every- 
body's Business," the second "ilakers of 
American Ideals," and the third "Welfare 
or Warfare." Further information may be 
obtained from The National Child Welfare 
Association, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York City. 

The Pan American International Com- 
mittee of Women, created by the Women's 
Auxiliary Committee of the United States 
of the Second Pan American Scientific 
Congress will, for the first time, hold simul- 
taneous meetings of its National Sections 
in the various capitals of North, Central, 
and South America on next Columbus Day, 
October 12, 1922. The call for tl;ese confer- 
ences, containing a suggested program, 
has been sent out from Washington by the 
Women's .fVuxiUary Committee of which 
Mrs. Charles Evans Hughes is Chairman. 
The aim of the conference is to further 
friendly relations and harmonious coopera- 
tion among the women of the Americas; to 
create a better understanding and a larger 
sympathy, thus placing international inter- 
ests upon a more enduring basis. 

The National Society for Vocational 
Education, the Vocational Educational 
Association of the Middle West, and the 
National Vocational Guidance Association 
will hold a Joint Vocational Education 
Convention at Detroit, Michigan, Novem- 
ber 30-December 2. The American Home 
Economics Association will hold its mid- 
year meeting in connection with this 
convention. See also editorial, page 503. 



1922] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 517 

Fifth Anxtal Con-^xntion 
AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCL\TION 
New Willakd Hotel, Washington, D. C, October 16, 17, and 18, 1922 

monday, october 16 

10:00 a. m. Educational Section, Dr. Ruth Wheeler presiding 
The Dietitian — a History 

Agnes O'Dea, Johns Hopkins Hospital 
The Dietitian— A Statistical Study 

Breta JI. Luther, Cook County Hospital, Chicago 
The Dietitian — A Prophecy 

Ruth WTieeler, University of Iowa Medical College 

2:00 p. m. Helene Pope, Margaret Morrison College, presiding 
The Dietitian and tlie Diabetic 

Dr. Elliot P. Joslin, Boston 
A Nutrition Experiment in Industrj' 

Laura Comstock, Eastman Kodak Company 
Atmosphere and Personality in the Tea Room 

Laura M. Piper, Manager, Laura Matilda Tea Room, New York City 
Findings in China 

Enuna Gunther, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Housewifery in China 

Ray Balderson, Teachers College, Columbia University 

7:00 p. m. Dinner Meeting, Mary de Garmo Bryan presiding 
General Hugh Cumming, LT. S. Public Health Service 
Major Julia C. Stimson, Superintendent Army Nurse Corps, U. S. A. 
Lenah Higbee, Superintendent Navy Nurse Corps, U. S. N. 
Lucy Minnegerode, Superintendent of Nurses, U. S. Public Health Service 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17 

9:30 a. m. Dieto-Therapy Section, Rena Eckman presiding 
The Role of High Protein in the Etiolog>- of Nephritis 

Dr. L. H. Newburg, University of Michigan Hospital 
A Laboratory for tlie Preparation and Service of Research Diets 

Dorothy N. Stewart, University of Michigan Hospital 
Hospital Food Costs 

Dr. Leroy E. Parkins, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital 
Getting Food to the Patients 

Henry C. Wright, Hospital and Institutional Bureau of Consultation, New York 

2:00 p. m. Visits to Walter Reed General Hospital, and Office of Home Economics, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 

8:00 p. m. Octavia Hall, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, presiding 
Nutrition and Diet in CMldhood 

Mary S. Rose, Teachers College, Columbia University 
The Relation of Hygiene to the Growmg Child 

Dr. Alfred Hess, New York City 



518 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18 

10:00 a. m. Social Service Section, Gertrude G. Mudge presiding 
Presentation of Committee Report 

Gertrude G. Mudge, Chairman, Committee on Italian Dietary Survey 
The Inter-relation of the Dietitian and the Medical Social Worker 

Ida M. Cannon, Director of Social Service, Mass. General Hospital 
Factors other than Food in the Nutrition Problem 

Lucy Gillett, Director, Nutrition Bureau, A. I. C. P., New York City 
Nutritional Activities in Philadelphia 

Anna Louise De Planter, Work in Child Federation, Philadelphia 
Psychological Aspects of Some Problems in Dietary Administration 

Dr. John B. Watson, J. Walter Thompson Co., New York City 

2:00 p. m. Mary de Ganno Bryan presiding 

Himger and Thirst 

Dr. Walter Cannon, Professor of Physiologj', Harvard Medical School 
Business Meeting — Reports of Committees 

8:00 p. m. All Member Program, Genevieve Field presiding 

The Food Service for Private Patients 

Lulu Graves, Director Dietary Dept., Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York City 
The Food Service for Ward Patients 

Marjory Hulsizer, Dietitian, Barnes Hospital, St. Louis 
The Food Service for School Children 

Daisy Treen, Director, School Lunch and New England Kitchen, Boston 
The Food Service for the Hotel 

Mary Lindsley, Manager, Grace Dodge Hotel, Washington 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19 

Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore 
10:00 a. m. Lulu Graves presiding 

The Relation of Animal Experimentation to Dietetics 

Dr. E. V. McCollum, Professor of Chemical Hygiene, Johns Hopkins Hospital 
The Relation of the Medical Staff and Diet School in Johns Hopkins Hospital 

Dr. William S. McCann, Associate Physician, Johns Hopkins Hospital 

Afternoon in the hospital and clinic 



The Washington Association is planning a number of social features and interesting trips for 
all persons attending the Convention. .-Uter tlie trips a picnic supper w-ill be served by the 
Department of Agriculture and the Walter Reed Hospital on Tuesday afternoon. On Wednes- 
day afternoon Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., assisted by ]\Irs. Coolidge, Mrs. Wallace, and 
Mrs. Gumming, nill entertain at tea at the Grace Dodge Hotel. 

On Thursday afternoon the Association vdW be the guests of the Johns Hopkins Hospital in 
Baltimore. After the morning program the afternoon wiW be spent in visiting the hospital and 
the medical clinic. 

Efforts are being made to secure special rates, and information regarding transportation will 
be sent to all members of the Association. 



Vol. XIV, No. 11 No\tsmber, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Maky ue Gabuo Bsyas. Ediior Ketcrah E. Baldwin, Businus Editor 

Editorial Board 

Mbs. Maby H. Abel C. F. Langworthv Katharine Fishes Grace G. Dexnv KATHA»n.E Blukt 

EAiloT o! "The Question Box," Amy DASmLS 

Associate Editors 

Day Monroe, News 

Edith Barber and Mildred Weigley Wood, Social Welfare and the Home 
Florence Ward, Extension 
Sybil Woodruff. Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell and Euma Conley, Education. 
Rdth O'Brien, TeitiJes 
Mabel Little, Institution Economics 
Elizabeth Miller Koch, Bibliography 
Cottaboralitrs — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advnsors 



CONTENTS 

The PRESroENx's Address 519 

General Sessions 523 

Food and Nutrition Section 535 

Textile Section 541 

Institution Economics Section 545 

Hqme Econosucs Extension Section 552 

Home Economics Education Section 556 

Household Management Conference 560 

Home Economics in Business Conference 565 

homemakers' conference 568 

Science Conterence 572 

Council Meetings 581 

Business Meeting £89 

Executive Committee Meeting 597 

Mid-year Meeting 600 



The Journal of Houe EcoNOincs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT, Remittances should be sent by New York Draft. Check, E.Tpress Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCLA.TIOX 1211 Cathedr.u. St., B.altimore, Md. 

roE Journal op Houe EcoNoaics is on sale at John Wanaraaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg & Co.. Chicago; Hochschild, Rohn & Co., Baltimore: Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 



The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 

BAKING 
POWDER 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 




.'i-' 



/•^^ 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economies 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV NO\TMBER, 1922 No. 11 

PROCEEDINGS OF THE FIFTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

Corvallis, Oregon, August 1-5, 1922 

THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS 

MARY E. SWEENY 

I wish you could realize just how your president feels as she opens the 
fifteenth annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association at 
Oregon Agricultural College, with its cordial hospitality and wonderful wel- 
come; how she feels as she catches the inspiration of your hopes, your dreams, 
your ambitions for our professional association, your interpretation of what it 
ought to mean to you. It has been a great pri\alege and a great responsibility 
to be your president, to think for you and with you, to act for you and with 
you, to plan with you for the future. 

Today, in accounting to you for my stewardship I begin to realize how little 
one can really do more than make a beginning in two years; how difficult it is 
to summarize those intangible things which are the indices pointing toward 
progress, development, and achievement. 

After all, we need to remember that as an association we are only fourteen 
years old, merely in the adolescent period of our life ; that for many years we were 
loosely organized, our purposes were vaguely defined, we lacked cohesion and 
large objectives; that in our state teachers colleges and in our state universities 
it has not been the unfailing custom to instill, into those entering the work, 
compelling professional motives, a code of professional ethics, unified standards 
of professional life. 

Our professional work has had to do with the home, which as an institution is 
traditional and conser\-ative. Those within it have had only a half hearted 
beUef in homemaking as a profession and in the functioning of science in every 
day life. Homes are individual units; there are few ways of reaching them 
collectively. No outside forces connected with incomes unify their attitude, 
interest, and point of view, and get certain standards into their mass mind 
and consciousness. 

To deal with such an institution, to study it, to serve it constructively, to 
interpret its social, economic, and moral responsibility, to help it to function 

519 



520 THE jOTTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

in civil life, to rehabilitate it when broken or disabled, has been difficult and 
at times tedious and soul wearying, but immensely alluring, demanding high 
spirit and courage. 

The tremendous growth of home economics through its introduction into 
the curricula of elementary and secondary schools and universities, the 
development of home demonstration work, vocational education, continuation 
and evening schools, has created a demand for a large number of professionally 
trained people to build up adequate subject matter, methods, and research. 
A remarkable impetus was given by the war. Subsequent demands have 
been made for participation in health programs. Economic depression and 
need for readjustment and standards of buying in the home have tested home 
economics as a profession. 

The problem always facing your executive committee and your council has 
been to develop a professional association which would stand for the ambitions, 
beliefs, ideals of the individual members, and to make the Association an 
instrument through which individuals might express themselves. 

It has been my privilege to help to accomplish the objectives set by the 
association at Swampscott: 

I. The organization of state associations. Twenty-five states are fully 
affiliated; 10 states have voted affiliation but have not yet completed it; 
in 10 states it is being considered; only four states have shown no interest. The 
membership in the affiliated states shows an increase of 300 per cent; in the 
southern region, 400 per cent. These gratifying results are due to the enthu- 
siasm and belief of individual members, to the conscientious service of the 
committee on regional organization, and to the excellent work of regional 
councilors. Every state association has a representative on the council, 
elected by the state. She knows the ijeeds of her state; she voices the wishes 
of her group. The executive committee is composed of three regional coun- 
cilors, two members at large, and the officers. This insures democratic 
policies, a plan of work representing all intersts, and a country-wide inter- 
pretation of home economics. 

II. The executive secretary. The need for an executive secretary was 
shown at Swampscott. A committee, under the leadership of Mary Matthews 
has raised by voluntary subscription S4804.00. 

III. Another achievement of the year is that the Journal of Home Economics 
has in reahty become the voice of the Association. Against tremendous odds 
Mrs. Bryan has brought it through the most successful year of its life. Its 
subscription list is now 7030. Its financial report is favorable. It has called 
to its service eight associate editors, representing all outstanding interests of 
the Association, and both the quality and quantity of material show the results 
of their activity. 

In its legislative program the year has been one of inaction for the associa- 
tion. Every woman's organization of consequence and many educational 



1922] THE president's address 521 

associations have endorsed the Fess Bill, though we were told by representa- 
tives and senators that it could not be passed until the Sheppard-Towner 
Educational Bill had become a law. The bill has ser\'ed to educate members of 
the American Home Economics Association and organizations endorsing it to 
the needs of home economics vocational education, and has achieved far more 
than its mere passage would guarantee. 

Perhaps nothing is a better inde.K to the growth of the Association than the 
extent and character of its affiliation with other organizations. We have been 
asked to have a representative speak at national meetings of the General 
Federation of Womens Clubs, the Pan American Conference, and the League 
of Women Voters. We have been requested to assist in furthering the pro- 
grams of the Parent Teachers Association, the National Congress of Mothers, 
the National Womens Trade Union League, the Consumers League, the Na- 
tional Housing Association, the Social Hygiene Association, the American 
Association of Social Workers, the Red Cross, the American Academy of 
Political and Social Sciences, the Canadian Child Conservation, and the 
International Eugenics Society. 

While there is much to give us hope in the past there is much yet to be done, 
and it will take more fortitude, more faith, more steadfastness, more courage, 
than pioneering. All of us feel that the Association must reinterpret its 
objectives and develop a program of work. As a group we must broaden our 
contacts. The school room needs business, business needs home economics 
women. All home economics work needs the homemaker, both the pro- 
fessional home economics woman in her home, and the untrained woman in 
her home. We need her to show us how much that we are teaching belongs in 
what is now tradition; we need her to help us make our courses meet the needs 
of these electric-started, automotivated, radio-connected homes. She has a 
tremendous contribution to make to our theories of care and training of the 
modem child. The Association should capitalize this tremendous asset of 
our 10,000 trained home economics women in homes of their own. They are 
to be the great force within our number which will recharge, revitalize our 
point of view, reinterpret to us our education for homemaking. 

A health program is being developed in the public schools of almost every 
city of the United States In many instances physical education departments 
and public health nursing organizations are developing the program. Shall 
the home economics woman with her special training in nutrition be left out? 
In every state teachers association there already exists a committee on health 
education made up of representatives from physical education associations and 
The American Medical Association. Are our state home economics associa- 
tions going to see that we cooperate and become a part of that committee on 
health education in their states? I believe the time has come for a clear 
statement of position of home economics: that we are not trying to do the work 



522 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

of the physician, nurse, or art teacher, but our own, and to ask for a joint com- 
mittee from the American Home Economics Association to work with similar 
committees from the American Medical Association, the National Organiza- 
tion for Public Health Nursing, the American Physical Education Association, 
the Arts Association, the Parent Teachers Association, and the National 
Congress of Mothers. 

In many universities in this country, survey courses in home economics are 
being developed, yet there is no adequate history of home economics up to the 
present time. Many of us hope that Isabel Bevier may find the leisure to 
elaborate the book she gave to us some years ago on the Home Economics 
Movement. This is one means of developing those professional standards 
which will mean much to our respect for our own work. 

In summarizing, the things I want to leave in your minds and on your 
hearts are: 

1. Concentration on a program of work for the Association. 

2. Capitalization of our asset of ten thousand home economics women in 
homes. 

3 Realization of our place in the development of the health program in our 
public schools. 

4. Study of what reasonable professional standards are to be maintained. 

5. Development of a code of professional ethics. 

6. Enlargement of the Journal of Home Economics which, as I see it, can 
be done only by having a full time editor and an adequate staff, based on the 
principle now operating. 

Trained home economics women are demanded as teachers, extension 
workers, \'isiting housekeepers, dietitians, editors, social service workers, and in 
other business positions. Cooperation has begun to be established with the 
nursing world, the medical world, the industrial world. Home economics 
work is beginning in Australia, Japan, China, South Africa, India, Turkey, 
New Zealand. This means that home economics is preparing for its duty and 
respKDnsibihty; that it glimpses its opportunity; \asions its real service; under- 
stands the meaning of its mission to energize, \'italize, and spiritualize the 
every day life of the every day man and woman. 



Editor's Note. According to the ruling of the Council, only abstracts of 
the addresses appear in this issue. These abstracts are, in the main, those 
submitted to the Press and Publicity Committee. All those received before 
September 21 are included. A number of papers will appear in full, in later 
issues of the Jottrnal. 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS AND BUSINESS WORLD 523 

GENERAL SESSIONS 

HOME ECONOMICS AND THE BUSINESS WORLD 

BESS M. EOWE 

Field Editor, The Farmer's Wife 

This subject brings out four questions: 1. What has the business world to 
offer home economics? 2. WTiat has home economics to offer the business 
world? 3. WTiat opportunities are tliere for women with home economics 
training in connection with business enterprises? 4. How does the opening 
of new opportunities for home economics women affect the training that should 
be given in home economics departments. 
The following points are a partial reply: 

1. The money spent for advertising every year constitutes the largest and 
the most eff'ective educational fund available in the country today. Adver- 
tising and sales campaigns affect every phase of home life; they largely deter- 
mine the equipment in every home. Manufactured articles are largely planned, 
advertised, and sold by men or by women not trained in the science of home- 
making. Home economics cannot hope to counteract false or misleading 
information unless it functions through this tremendous organized educational 
force. The business world today offers us our most effective means of making 
standard home economics information really function in the homes of today. 

2. Most business organizations are alert for information; there is much 
knowledge available that is greatly needed in the mass of homes. We have, on 
the one hand, a group of people eager for loiowledge; we have, on the other, 
a group earnestly striving to spread this knowledge. It is worth going more 
than half way, if necessary, to do this service. We need not fear that the in- 
formation will be exploited. While there has been something of this in the 
past, we do not find it todaj-. The up-to-date business man has a real idea 
of service. As a rule we find in the business world fully as high a standard 
of etliics as we find in any educational or professional group. 

3. A business man said recently, "The only woman who can hope to make a 
permanent success in business today is the woman with home economics 
training. A few years ago it was enough to introduce 'the woman's angle'; 
now it must be the point of view of the woman who is trained along home 
economics lines." Many of the best opportunities open to home economics 
women today are with business organizations. We must get away from the 
idea that a girl is betraying her profession by going into business; otherwise 
we shall find women with lower standards or poorer traim"ng taking these key 
positions. These openings are coming fast; they are attractive and will be 
filled. It behooves home economics women to encourage our strong girls to 
go into them if they so desire. There is no way in which we can so easily and 



524 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

quickly make home economics a part of the consciousness of the public at 
large. The standards of the home economics woman in business will sooner 
or later be impressed on the minds of the general public as the standards of 
the whole home economics profession. 

4. Our courses are criticized as being impractical. We must keep in close 
contact with the world outside; we must know its wants as well as its needs; 
we must, as far as possible, teach our girls to know conditions as they are and 
to adapt their training to the needs tliey find; in short, we must study this new 
manifestation of the need of home economics and we must take steps to domi- 
nate the work in this field. 

WHAT THE COMMUNITY OWES THE CHH^D 

CAROLINE HEDGER, M.D. 
Director, Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund Child Welfare Agency, Chicago 

What the community owes the child is a rather recent thought. The child, 
until recently, has been the family problem, but the community now realizes 
that it owes the child an unimpaired heritage because the child is the com- 
munity of the future. It owes him perfection of production. The time has 
come when we can no longer fail to face the fact that legislation must be under- 
taken to preclude the reproduction of the feeble minded. We owe the child 
tlie thought of die child as a part of an endless plan. There must be an imder- 
standing and a participation in race perpetuation quite consciously. The 
person who is elected by the qualifications of high heritage to make his race 
contributions must make it with an absolute faith. The child must be bom 
in such condition that it can survive and come to perfection. 

Having produced the child, the community owes the child education. 
Just what education means is unsettled in the minds of educators, and not all 
children can stand the regime which has been built up. There are special 
problems such as the conservation of the superior child, and the conservation 
of the adolescent in school. But every child must be given positive health. 
Teach the child those things which make for beauty. Beauty is the right of 
every child. 

The third thing the community owes is the socialization of the child. 
Socialization of the child is as necessary as clothing the child. It means more 
than joining a church; it means getting the adolescent into the church in the 
right way so that he becomes a force in the community and not a church 
joiner just to save his own soul. It means more than vaccination and more than 
manners. It is the making of the child into a social unit; it is giving him some 
of the things he needs to work with in a democracy. He needs an ethical 
basis, the ability to do right because it is right. All are necessary and are the 
community's debt to tlie child. 



1922] women's vart: in national health progr.am 525 

The evasion of responsibility stunts our growth in human and in spiritual 
life. Responsibility involves selflessness. Underlying the responsibility of 
the body which is the carrier of the spirit, we should bring the child into a 
realization of the fact that he is the social unit and owes sometliing to 
the state, to the nation, and to himself. In so doing we shall have largely 
discharged our responsibility to the child. 

WOMEN'S PART IN THE NATIONAL HE.\LTH PROGRAM 

ANNIE W. GOODRICH 
Teachers College and Henry Street Settlement, New York City 

The public health movement has unquestionably been forwarded by a 
steadily increasing appreciation of the prevalence of deviations from normal 
health and a consequent economic loss. This awareness was enormously 
intensified by the hea\y incidence of illiteracy and physical defects revealed 
by the draft of approximately 2,400,000 men in the last war. A not less 
important factor, however, in our interest in attacking the health problem is 
the ever increasing body of scientific knowledge bearing upon tlie cure and 
prevention of diseases, many of which were heretofore conceived to be not only 
incurable, but inevitable. 

Despite both tliese facts these conditions continue to exist. It is therefore 
imperative that we. should mobilize every community for decisive action in 
this field. Such a program to be effective must enlist the universal cooperation 
of any given community through a campaign of education in its needs and the 
means through which its needs may be most effectively met. There is no 
more important point of attack than the direction and care of the young 
mother and the child in such matters as sanitary surroundings, adequate 
and suitable diet, and a properly proportioned daily life from the standpoint 
of occupation, intellectual development, recreation, and rest. 

The machinery- and personnel as e.xpressed in hospitals, dispensaries, health 
stations, physicians, and nurses, through which adequate care of the sick may 
be provided, are therefore today of no greater importance than tliat a program 
of health education be provided which wiU insure a steadily increasing per cent 
of health in every child and, ipso facto, every citizen. 

The participants in such a program of health education should not be 
limited to physic'ans and nurses, but should include all the ever increasing 
groups of health workers, such as physical directors, nutrition workers, dentists 
and dental hygienists, the great body of teachers at large, and above all the 
parents. 

An effective cooperation and coordination of the machinery and personnel 
for such a program requires: (a) A survey of any given locality, such as the 
Cleveland Hea'th Survey, (b) A carefuUy worked out plan under expert 
advise and criticism, (c) A budget covering the estimated development for 
a given period, (d) Methods of raising the necessar>' funds. 



526 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

HOME ECONOMICS AND THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT 
OF AGRICULTURE 

C. W. PUGSLEY 
Assistant Secretary of Agriculture 

Practically all of the development of home economics, both in investigation 
and extension, has come within the last quarter of a century. The develop- 
ment of the science and teaching of agriculture covers a much longer period 
but it is only within the last century that scientific agriculture has been put on 
a sound basis. The urgent demand of the people for information has caused 
extension teaching oftentimes to go beyond what the existing status of 
research warranted. The most important needs of home economics today 
are money and workers for research. 

We must remember though that in home economics extension we have mil- 
lions of scattered homes to reach while in research we have a few score of 
centralized institutions to equip and maintain. The proportion of funds 
going to extension will therefore always be greater. 

Many home economics teachers have received no intimation that the 
problem of the country housewife differs in any sense from the problems of 
the city housewife. Many have received the impression from their mothers 
that farm work and farm life were to be shunned by a woman. We wiU of 
course concede that many a farm woman occupies a very hard position. Her 
hours are long, her work hard, and her pleasures few. It is a position she can 
not escape. She or someone else must fill the place of the farm housewife. 
It is the home economics worker's job to help her shorten her hours, lighten 
her work, and increase her pleasures. If this can be done no work can be 
any more pleasing, for she has beautiful and healthful surroundings for herself 
and her loved ones. 

As the proportion of the urban dwellers increases, the burden rests heavier 
on the farmer to supply an increasing amount of food. I think the last few 
months have demonstrated the fact that we can not secure this food supply 
without a prosperous, contented, and educated farm life. We cannot possibly 
laave that unless the farm home which is the heart of farm life is placed on a 
very high plane. 

There is no one thing which a home economics agent can study to better 
advantage than the labor income of her people. She must know this in order 
to know what to recommend for the farm living, and the things which can be 
done within the home are dependent to a large extent on the farm income. 
She must be able to show that the living condition on the farm has a direct 
influence on the efficiency of the farmer and hence on the income. 

The fann is a complex institution. That is the reason why the farmers 
like a man of the farm management type to assist them in coordinating their 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS AND DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 527 

work. The problem of the home demonstration agent does not differ from 
that of the agricultural agent. She is a coordinator also. It is her business 
to help the housewife to determine how much time and energy can be expended 
wisely on household activities, and also to determine just what is best to do in 
each instance. 

This brings me to a verj' frank discussion of the fact which led to the 
reorganization of the Office of Extension in the United States Department of 
Agriculture. More money has been set aside every year for home demonstra- 
tion than has been used. Our problem was to find out why this was so. We 
found, first, that it was difficult to get the proper tj^De of home demonstration 
workers and to keep them when found because so many marry. We also found 
that in time of ffiiancial stringency home demonstration agents were more 
likely to be dropped from the budget than farm agents. 

It is not only proper but natural for both the man and the woman in the 
farm home to think of the extension agent's work in the light of farm profit. 
Nobody realizes more keenly than the farm housewife that the fields must 
pay a profit or she has no money for washing machines, nmning water, sewage 
systems, lighting systems, furniture, piano, and many other things that make 
home life full and complete. I feel that any organization of extension work 
which requires a consideration of home demonstration work separate and apart 
from farm or agricultural demonstration work wiU always react to the dis- 
advantage of the home demonstration work. 

For this reason extension work has been reorganized and in place of men's 
work and women's work we have a Programs Division and a Methods Division. 
Women have a part in all the councils and are consulted with reference to the 
portion of money that should be expended on that part of the work in which 
women are immediately interested. The United States Department of Agri- 
culture does not attempt to control the work in the states but many of the 
states are following its example and adopting a unified farm home program of 
work instead of separate lines of work devoted to agriculture and home 
economics. 

The Secretar}' of Agriculture believes that home economics work should be 
greatly strengthened and he authorizes me to state at this time that he has in 
view "making the home economics work an independent bureau ranking with 
the other bureaus of the department and placing at its head a woman with 
executive ability, thorough scientific training, and a broad and sympathetic 
understanding of what is needed to make the bureau of help to the women of 
the land." 



528 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

SOME OF THE LARGER RELATIONSHIPS OF HOME ECONOMICS 

ISABEL BEVIER 

It is my purpose to discuss some of the larger aspects of home economics, 
(1) within the university, and (2) without the university. 

The test of individuals and associations is the company they keep. The 
test of home economics is the place it has made for itself in the university life. 
Home economics must stand, first of aU, for sound scholarship. The way 
must be open for students to receive academic honors. Home economics 
must take part in the constructive work of the university, at its senate meet- 
ings and faculty conferences; it should continue to assume the role, usually so 
gladly accorded it, in the social life of the imiversity. The finer forms of 
social intercourse and the development of a gracious womanhood are a definite 
part of the program for which we strive. 

Home economics courses should teach sane living, the richness and fullness 
of life, the joy of work, good citizenship. The goal of university training is 
leadership. The specific must be used to develop general ability; the con- 
crete must be applied to its ultimate end, an understanding of real values. 

So much for the suggestions about Home Economics inside the University. 
Now as to its relationships on the outside. A glance at this program shows 
that home economics has a recognized place in the world's work in nutrition and 
public health, but there are other fields of endeavor quite as important for 
home economics. 

Wliat has this program or the Association done for art in any or all of its 
varied forms? Art is a mighty instrument for the enrichment of our common 
life, for the beautifying of the daily task. As I see it the extension workers 
have done, speaking by and large, the best piece of art work because they have 
used the materials at hand — clothes and hats — to teach proportion, form, 
line, color. 

Other forms of art ought to be developed by cooperation with architects in 
the arrangement of the house for efficiency and beauty ; and with another group, 
the decorators, to ensure good taste in furnishing so that women may know how 
to express personality through this channel and so make a house their home. 

Home economics must foUow women into the fields, rather new to them — 
economics and pohtics. 

The passing days emphasize the necessity for wise expenditure of time, 
monej^ and energy on the part of everybody. Whether women understand 
it or not, forces quite beyond their power are giving them a part in the economic 
and political life of the nation. Home economics workers need to hear and 
heed the command, "Enlarge the place of thy tent and let them stretch forth 
the curtains of thy habitations; spare not, lengthen thy cords and strengthen 
thy stakes." 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS IN PORTO RICO 529 

HOME ECONOMICS IN PORTO RICO 

ELSIE MAE WILLSEY 
Supervisor of Borne Economies 

The efficiency of the school system of Porto Rico is due to the centralized 
organization and administration. This central educational organization com- 
prises the Commissioner of Education, appointed by the President of the 
United States, an assistant commissioner, secretary, and chief of the di\ision 
of super\-ision, and eight general superintendents. The latter are in charge 
of Spanish, English, high schools, rural schools, athletics, home economics, 
manual arts, and agriculture. Their duties are those of organization, super- 
vision, and instruction in their particular branch of work for the whole island. 

Credit for two years of home economics is required for graduation from 
elementary school and two additional years for graduation from high school 
A fifth year is elective in eleventh and twelfth grades. The work in home 
economics at the University of Porto Rico is similar to that offered in univer- 
sities in the States, and leads to the degree of Bachelor of Arts. 

All home economics instructors in the University and University High 
School are graduates of uni\'ersities in the States, as are also heads of the 
departments in some of the other high schools. Positions in the smaller high 
schools, continuation schools, and elementary schools are held by Porto Rican 
young women, graduates of the normal course of the University of Porto Rico. 

The Baldorioty Technical School, San Juan, houses the beginning of 
a technical school for girls. It aims to specialize in three branches (1) dress- 
making, (2) millinery, and (3) nurse's preparatory. At the present time there 
is no demand for institutional cookery but this will surely be added later. 

The work of the Supervisor of Home Economics includes supervision over: 
(1) The home economics work in all elementary, continuation, and high schools 
as well as the University of Porto Rico. Accredited private schools are 
visited once a year. (2) Vocational classes in Porto Rican drawnwork and 
embroidery. This year there were seventy-two teachers of home economics 
and fifty-five of needlework. The teachers in the vocational classes are Porto 
Rican women. 

The housing of the departments has made great strides during the past 
year. Several home economics cottages have been built and several others 
are being planned. A five room concrete building is being constructed in 
Ponce for elementary home economics work. It is to be named the Ellen H. 
Richards School. It will be modem in every respect. In equipment the 
group plan of work is being advanced in all permanent building. 

The penny lunch room of the States is the "Comedor Escolar" of Porto Rico. 
It is financed either by the municipalities or charitable associations. More 
and more it is coming under the supervision of the teacher of home economics. 



530 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Ever>' municipality has its "Home Economics Club." The acitivities of 
these clubs are planned to employ the leisure hours of the girls. Each year a 
special project is taken up by all the clubs. In 1920-21 the project was "Sim- 
plified Dressing among School Girls." The main ideas were low heeled shoes, 
substantial dresses, and bobbed hair. The success of this movement pushed 
by the girls themselves, has been nothing short of marvelous. Practically 
every school in every muncipality now has its school uniform and the girl 
appearing at school without it feels inappropriately dressed. In 1921-22 the 
project was "Health tlirough E.xercise." In 1922-23 the project is to be 
"Child Welfare." 

The Home Economics Club girls are all Junior Red Cross girls also. The 
drive last year gave $30,193.25 which was 100 per cent enrollment for all 
schools. The peace time work of this organization has been: Establishment 
of dental and health clinics, scholarships to deserving students, community 
buildings. 

The Junior Red Cross gave $7,500 for a school and librarj' building for 
children at the Insular Tuberculosis Sanatorium. $15,000 has been voted for 
a girls' dormitory at the school for the blind. 

Scholarships include two to French war orphans, six at the University of 
Porto Rico, one at the University High School, one at the Polytechnic In- 
stitute, a Presbyterian college at San German, and one at Comerio continua- 
tion school. 

I desire to make an appeal to members of the American Home Economics 
Association for Scholarships for home economics teachers of Porto Rico, to 
enable them to attend universities in the States either during the school year 
or summer sessions. 

HOME ECONOMICS IN INDIA AND NEW ZEALAND 

ANN GILCHRIST STRONG 
University of Olago, Dunedin, New Zealand 

The first work inaugurated in Baroda, India, was in the Teacher Training 
Colleges for men as well as for women. The course was one in "Rural Home 
Problems," and was given through an interpreter until I was able to train 
others for it. We used demonstrations and charts witb illustrative material 
to teach them the simple facts of sanitarj' science and dietetics needed by the 
villagers. Prenakipresad Desai, the Principal of the Male Training College, 
is a graduate of Teachers College. A Scotch girl in charge of the Female 
Training College was an enthusiastic aid in establishing the work. A man who 
was trained by me is now in charge and is carrying on the course in the vernac- 
ular with success. 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS IN INDIA AND NEW ZEALAND 531 

The second place to install a course in household arts was the GMs High 
School, under Miss Needham, the EngUsh Principal. She so arranged her 
program as to permit one course in each school year, and at the same time made 
it possible for a girl to specialize in the subject and take several courses in one 
year. 

Here it was possible to teach in English, and I did this myself with the assist- 
ance of the girls doing practice teaching. The course of study has been 
printed and is now in use, being carried out by Dattatraya Ramchandra 
Jogleker, who teaches the science, and Miss Gulabbai Javeri, who teaches the 
cooker\' and clothing work. 

They now have an anne.x consisting of half a dozen rooms where the practical 
courses are taught under good Indian condirions. The study of their foods 
and methods of cookery, as well as their dress, was to me most fascinating. 
They have much to teach the Westerner. 

The most important teaching which I had in charge was the three years 
course in household arts given at the Baroda College to a selected group of 
graduate students, mostly men. The purpose of this training was vocational, 
and for two ends. Half of the students were to be prepared for institutional 
management and the other half for teaching. The practice field was unique. 
Specialization took place in the last year, and each student made a study of 
his problem and assisted me in its practical supervision. The state guest 
house, palaces, laundry, stores, and kitchens were under my direction and 
inspection. The students were trained to take this work over at the end of 
their college course. At present they are employed as supervisors of the bunga- 
lows, and as teachers in the training colleges and high schools. 

The principal of the new Women's College in Ahmedabad is carrjdng out the 
household arts courses there. 

The work in New Zealand was started ten years ago. The efforts of 
Mr. John Studholme are largely responsible for its installation in the University 
of Otago. Miss Boys-Smith and Helen Rawson from England have done 
good work in developing what is here called the "Home Science" courses in 
elementary and high schools, as well as in the University, where it is a degree 
subject. 

Home science has had the science emphasized to the nelgect of the home part 
of its name, and we are now attemping to balance this up. It is compulsory 
in the high schools for all girls, and our graduates of the University teach 
them. The syllabus covers inorganic and organic and applied chemistry, and 
in some schools the only apphcation is that made in the chemistry laboratoiy. 

The University Department of Home Science is now housed in a fine stone 
building, and is well provided with up to date laboratories and equipment. 
We number about seventy-five students, and forty-six are in residence at 
Studholme House which is run by the students in training. This makes an 



532 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

excellent practice house for large housekeeping and we are now hoping for a 
bungalow to pro\ade practice in a smaller group. It is surprising how well the 
students manage the hostel, doing the ordering, planning of meals, and the 
cookery. We now have six professors and seven assistants in our department. 

While the training in the past has been almost entirely for teachers, the 
institutional management classes have been begun. In cooperation with 
the hospital we are hoping soon to bring a dietitian from America who will 
help us open up this vocation for our graduates. 

The health cUnics have been a great success, both from the point of view of 
our students' gain in experience, and the help thus furnished the public. 
Demonstration lectures in connection with the chnic and summer camp for 
undernourished children have furnished a means of contact with the com- 
munity, and have created a demand for extension work. 

The Christ Church Home Economics Association is in a flourishing condition, 
and we all hope some time to be able to af&liate with you and to become a part 
of the International Association. Indeed I consider our International Com- 
mittee work as important as any you have undertaken in the Association. 

HOME ECONOMICS IN ROUMANIA 

MARY HALEY MORAN 

Some work along home economics lines has been done imder the direction 
of the Junior Red Cross. Three centers testify to the work of the Junior 
Red Cross in helping Roumanian cliildren who have been orphaned or crippled 
in healtli by the war to regain a normal life. These are: the sanitorium for 
tubercular children at Tekir Ghiol, the Breaza social center, a scholarship fund. 

Breaza lies among tlie hills of northern Wallachia, not far from the oil wells 
of Campina. The Industrial School For Girls which is located here has become 
a model for other schools of its kind in Roumania. The girls at tlie school 
are all orphans. First of all, it was thought to be wise to teach them some 
housekeeping, for having no homes of their own they lack knowledge of the 
science and art of household management. In addition, they have been given 
school lessons, and home hygiene and exercise. Above all they have been 
taught to weave on hand looms the fine rug for which Rumania is famous, and 
to embroider the ancient and beautiful patterns. In the course of time as the 
school is enlarged and the older girls become more skillful, it will become self- 
supporting. There are 29 girls at the school, between the ages of 14 and IS. 
They come from the humblest type of home. 

There was a great lack of facihties for the housekeeping classes but the 
Personnel Cottage helped to solve the difficulty. A young and unusually 
intelligent Roumanian servant girl was trained to sen'e as instructor to the 
girls as they came one by one, staying a week at a time, to live and work in 



1922] RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS 533 

the house. At the end of the week, the girl had been taught how to sweep, 
dust, clean floors, wash dishes, and had some practice in American cooking and 
table sen-ice. On the last day of her week, the girl cooked and served a 
Roumanian dish. 

At Breaza the Junior Red Cross is in charge of a Baby Welfare Station, 
which includes a weekly clinic and home visits, serving an average of 180 babies; 
a pre-natal clinic occurring twice a month with home visits; a mothers' club with 
monthly meetings and talks by doctor and nurse. 

There is a comprehensive school health program including: anti-tuberculosis 
clinics twice a month and home visits, serving 100 children; health instruction 
in schools by doctor and nurse, ser\-ing an average of 350 children; school 
canteens daily, ser\dng an average of 350 children; teachers' meetings, relating 
to the school health program, once a month. 



For IMiss Winslow's report of the International Congress on Home Economics, 
see the Journal for August, 1922. 

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE THIRD INTERNATIONAL 
CONGRESS ON HOME ECONOMICS 

The Third International Congress on Home Economics, following the action 
of the Congresses at Fribourg and Ghent, presented certain resolutions at its 
meeting in Paris, 1922. Extracts from these resolutions are as follows: 

Section I. Urban Home Economics 

Home economics should be included in all primary schools on the same basis 
as other branches of instruction; it should be given in school hours by the reg- 
ular teachers, who should have received sufficient preparation for this pur- 
pose in the normal schools; it should have a place in the program of the inter- 
mediate or secondary schools, and be recognized in the examination for 
graduation. 

It is desirable that hqusekeeping courses should be established in connection 
with all women's community organizations. 

It is desirable that present educational periodicals give a large place to 
home economics material, and that an international bulletin on home econom- 
ics be published to keep home economics people in touch with one another 
in the inter\-als between the sessions of the Congress. 

Section II. Agricultural Home Economics 

Agricultural home economics, because of the knowledge which it provides 
concerning essentials in family life, should be embodied in the program of 
all rural schools, whether elementary, secondary, or intermediate. The 
information should be definite and accompanied by practical work. 



534 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiMCS [November 

All types of post graduate schools in agricultural home economics are to be 
recommended; however, when possible, preference should be given to per- 
manent schools providing continuous instruction aimed at general agricultural 
improvement. 

It is desirable that farmer's wives be organized as far as possible into groups, 
which, by conferences and by other means of popularization and competition, 
will assist in the improvement of education and in the professional progress 
of agricultural home economics. 

Section III. Home Economics and Social Life 

Home Economics, including child care, should form the basis of profes- 
sional courses for all young women who are preparing for business or industry 
whether or not technical education is required. It is to be wished that each 
business or industrial establishment employing a certain number of young girls 
would organize for them a household school and make their attendance possible. 

Domestic service should be considered a profession and a thorough appren- 
ticeship should be required. 

The scientific basis upon which home economics rests, should be considered 
an essential element in home economics instruction, and should be taken 
account of in the examinations of all grades. It is desirable that the univer- 
sity and the laboratories for advanced instruction should come to the assis- 
tance of home economics. 

It is desirable that there should be added to the course in hygiene and child 
care, in all the household schools, certain simple information about educational 
methods in the home, suitable for the preparation of the future mother of the 
family for her duties as an educator. 

International Federation 

The Congress recommends to governments, public authorities, various 
scientific and professional organizations, and private individuals, membership 
in the International Federation for the development of home economics. 
This Federation, through the office which it maintains, can assure the con- 
tinuation of the International Congress and provide at all times, by its records, 
* its bulletin, its library, its inquiries, and its studies, that various countries may 
profit by the experiences in other countries. 

The Congress also recommends that governments and private individuals 
send to the International ofiice text books, charts, and all printed material 
used in home economics instruction; that the ofiice be assisted by a technical 
commission who will give suggestions for the improvement of such material 
and make the best material better known and more widely circulated. 

The Congress authorized the International Ofiice to undertake the neces- 
sary steps for carrying out these resolutions as rapidly as possible. 



1922] COOPERATIVE CHILD NUTRITION SERVICE 535 

food and nutrition section 

coOperatr^ child nutrition service 

MARTHA KOEHNE 
Department of Home Economics, University of Washington 

Nutrition classes or clinics are springing up every where and the demand for 
educational work along health lines is increasing. That the public is finally 
awake to the importance of diet in tlie prevention of physical defects and 
inefficiency is a cause for rejoicing. Progressive pediatricians and physicians 
interested in preventive medicine fully recognize the importance of the proper 
feeding of infants, children, and adults. Public health work of the future 
is bound to give more and more recognition to the need for scientifically 
trained leaders in nutrition. Public health nurses, who come in close contact 
with intimate family problems and community needs, were, at their recent 
convention in Seattle, united in e.xpressing their desire for adequately trained 
leaders n nutrition work. At the University of Washington the aim is to 
provide, for those students who desire it, actual experience in methods of 
detection and control of malnutrition, to enable them to learn all they can 
from local pediatricians, and, incidentally, to cultivate a spirit of closer 
cooperation between the department and the practicing physicians. The 
University also seeks to be of immediate service to the community :n which 
it is located. The Home Economics Department felt keenly, however, that 
the general plan to be adopted, with the above object in view, must have the 
cooperation and moral support of other agencies already at work in Seattle 
for the betterment of child health. After consultation with all persons inter- 
ested, the cooperative Child Nutrition Service was inaugurated about the 
middle of February, 1922, in the Nutrition Laboratory, Home Economics 
HaU. 

Before discussing this serivce, a few words are necessary in regard to general 
work in dietetics and nutrition at the University. The University supports a 
strong nursing department. In addition to the regular course in dietetics 
and nutrition for home economics majors with excellent laboratory equipment 
for nutrition work and supporting science courses, a special course is ofi'ered to 
these nurses and to sociology' majors. After having had either of the above 
courses students may elect an advanced course — Problems Connected with 
Malnutrition. This course includes, on the theoretical side, an intensive study 
and discussion of infant feeding and the feeding of older children, many topics 
relating to malnutrition, the work of various organizations in the country that 
are especially interested in child welfare work, and the dietary customs of 
various nationalities. 



536 THE jOLTiNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

On the practical side, the work centers around the cooperative Child Nutri- 
tion Ser\dce, which is directed by the wTiter in cooperation with Dr. V. W. 
Spicliard and Dr. George J. Mohr, both pediatricians. The Service is open 
ever}' Wednesday from 2:00 to 5:00, the only charge being 15 cents. Mothers 
may bring any growing child where the difficulty is one of nutrition, or if she 
wishes to be sure the child is developing normally. 

The physicians give a medical examination and recommend procedure. 
They cooperate with the Department in recommendations as to dietetic 
treatment. Great emphasis is placed upon the importance of breast feed- 
ing up to nine months. Diet sheets for infants under one year, for children 
from one year to eighteen months, and from eighteen months to three years 
of age, have been prepared for issuance to mothers, to expedite the work. In 
this way, only special suggestions are necessary, and much repetition of general 
instructions is eliminated. 

Students taking this course are present at these consultations. They take the 
history of the case, its dietary habits, and its habits of hygiene. They weigh and 
measure the children and have each information chart complete by the time the 
physician is ready to make the examination. They also record the results of 
the medical examination and all the directions and recommendations made. 

These students are getting valuable experience in working with physicians 
and parents, and in visiting homes, thus removing the handicaps ordinarily 
hindering ine.xperienced nutrition workers. They are also required to visit 
orphanages, children's homes, and children's hospitals in and around Seattle, 
as well as the health centers and nutrition clinics operated by the Health 
Department, Anti-tuberculosis League, and public schools. 

So far we have examined 85 children: 34 under one year, 16 from one to two 
years, 14 from two to four years, 10 from four to six years, 9 from six to ten 
years, and 2 over ten years of age. We have had 45 return visits and 17 
phone communications with others. 

PLANS FOR TEACHING PRACTICAL NUTRITION TO THE PUBLIC 

MARGERY M. SMITH 
Assistant in Nutrition, Oregon Agricultural College 

The public is not a young child ready to accept without question present 
day teachings looking toward higher health standards. The public is rather 
an adult capable of thinking and susceptible to advice and suggestion. The 
state of nutrition of the public will be improved not by force but by creating a 
desire to be better fed through simple, clear, and unmistakably presented evi- 
dence of the relation between food habits and health. 

The public may be expected to learn (1) by reading, (2) by hearing, (3) 
by seeing, (4) by doing. The agencies that may be employed in teaching the 



1922] NUTRITION 537 

public are the written word, the spoken word, the picture, the exhibit, and the 
demonstration of the desired practices. The written word has greatest 
possibilities in reaching large numbers and, rightly used, is a powerful agency. 
The full use of the simple, clear, accurate written word in teaching nutrition 
is not yet fully realized. The spoken word with its personal contact is more 
influential in overcoming food prejudices and superstitions than is the wTitten 
word, and may reach some who have not read. Since so large a proportion of 
our adult public, however, is eye-minded and learns rather by seeing and doing 
than by reading and hearing, visual methods of teaching practical nutrition 
should be further employed. For instance, a demonstration of vegetable salads 
and whole wheat bread sandwiches gives an opportunity to see and taste as 
well as to discuss foods of high value in the diet from the standpoints of minerals 
and bulk. 

It is of utmost importance for those who would teach practical nutrition to 
be themselves living examples of the practices they would teach. The power 
of example cannot be over appreciated. Any person well trained in 
nutrition, whether in professional work or not, should assume the r61e of a 
teacher. Accumulated knowledge in nutrition is of little value until it is 
made to function in the lives of the individuals who make up our public. The 
avenues of the written word, the spoken word, and tlie visual method are open. 
Through them we cannot have too many teachers of sound nutrition gospel. 

NUTRITION: ITS APPLICATION TO COMMERCIAL AND INDUS- 
TRIAL PROBLEMS 

GUDRUN CARLSON 

A few nutrition workers have been actively engaged for the past few years 
in fields closely related to industry, but most of the home economics profession 
either has not been informed concerning it or has given the fact only a super- 
ficial thought. If specialists who go from the home economics profession into 
the commercial or industrial field are to be accepted and retain all their 
prestige, they must do work which is creditable and based on scientific fact. 

The variety of applications which nutrition, in particular, may have to 
the commercial and industrial fields is rather hard to define or classify, but I 
shall attempt to give you a general idea of some of those now being carried out. 

L The research field in nutrition is making some excellent contributions to 
industry. Realizing the importance of research, the Carnegie Corporation 
has helped to establish a Food Research Institute at Stanford University, 
"for the purpose of intensive study of the problems of the production, dis- 
tribution, and consumption of foods. " So far as I know, their plans along 
lines of foods and nutrition are not definitely formulated, but we can use our 
influence to get some very useful work done there. 



538 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Several large food concerns have conducted and are conducting research 
on their own products which should be a constant impetus to produce better 
food. You may be familiar with some of the work done with flour, yeast, bread, 
oils and fats, milk and milk products, meat, and other foods. 

2. Of equal, if not greater, importance is the educational phase, and it is 
into this field that most of our nutrition workers will probably go, for the 
present, at least. Naturally, much of this work is allied with advertising and 
publicity, but again it may be said that it can be truly educational, if done by 
a woman trained in home economics. 

3. Journalism is another field which in several ways might also be called 
educational. Nutrition terms are bywords to the reading public, and the 
best standard magazines are begirming to appreciate the fact that their foods 
and cooker}^ articles must either be written or edited by persons well trained 
in nutrition. Even trade and commercial publications are taking steps to 
fall in line with better and newer knowledge of nutrition. 

4. The field of nutrition which may appeal most to the academic person or 
teacher is that of employee health service in commercial and industrial plants. 
The malnourished child has at last received attention, and we are just beginning 
to turn to a more systematic study of how to help the malnourished adult. 
Physicians and nurses have done some work but there is much need of special- 
ists in nutrition. 

The opportunities in the closely related fields of chemistry, bacteriology, 
and physiolog}', should interest us also, particularly where food is concerned. 

It will be of special interest to teachers of nutrition to keep in touch with the 
new course in this subject which is to be de\'eloped at Cincinnati University in 
the professional school for women. The course will probably be five years long. 

CONTENT OF THE FIRST YEAR COLLEGE COURSE IN FOOD 
FOLLOWING THE TWO YEAR COLTISE IN HIGH SCHOOL 

MARGARET FEDDE 
University of Nebraska 

The content of the first year college course in foods must depend upon the 
high school training the students have had in home economics. The colleges 
must take cognizance of this work in order to avoid expenditure of the students' 
time and energj' in repetition. Inquiry made of state supervisors of home 
economics resulted in 16 replies. Of these, 11 advocated separate courses in 
foods for pupils from vocational high schools; 2 disapproved of separate courses 
on the ground that the work in the high schools was decidedly elementar}'; 
3 were uncertain. 

Inquiry made of colleges regarding changes in food courses for students 
with high school work in home economics resulted in 16 repHes. California, 



1922] CONTENT OF HEALTH COURSES IN COLLEGES 539 

Washington, Oregon, Montana, North Dakota, Kansas, Nebraska, and 
Minnesota offer separate courses to the students who come with high school 
training, or exempt these students from the first course in foods, or exempt 
them from laboratorj- in food work but require that they take the lecture work. 
Our experience at Nebraska in offering a separate course in food study has not 
been entirely satisfactory'. Ohio, Arkansas, Michigan, and Delaware place 
students in separate classes in clothing but not in food stud3^ Some of the 
colleges base their course of study on the assumption that the majority of 
students have had high school foods, and therefore require an extra term of 
work of the girls who have had no high school work in this subject. 

In view of these different procedures certain fundamentals must be estab- 
lished in order to offer to the students the work which will best serve their 
needs. 1. The college course should be based on a two year course in high 
school when 50 per cent or more of the students have had this training. Not 
more than two years work in home economics should be offered in high school. 
A longer course narrows the curriculum. 2. Standards of accomplishment 
must be set in the high school. 3. Colleges must know what is being taught 
in high school in order that they may build their work on what the students 
aheady know. 4. Some scheme of evaluating the work done in the high 
school must be devised. 5. Very definite aims and standards of accompUsh- 
ment must be set up for the college course. 6. The college course should be 
based on what the girl knows and what she needs to know to fit her for 
the responsibilities of homemaking, teaching, institutional, commercial, social, 
or research work. This includes a thorough knowledge of foods from the 
standpoints of preparation, purchase, costs and relation to budget, legal safe- 
guards, place in diet for all ages, and relation to health. 

THE CONTENT OF HEALTH COURSES IN THE COLLEGES 

EUSABETH AMERY 

University of Washin^lon, Seattle 

A lecture course on food is a university requirement at the University of 
Washington. Sue years ago, at the request of the physical education depart- 
ment, a change was made in the physical education requirements for women, 
resulting in the division of the course into three parts: floor work, hygiene 
lectures, and food lectures. Two hours of floor work and one lecture in hygiene 
per week are required of the first year students, and two hours of floor and one 
lecture in foods per week are required of all sophomore girls, with the exception 
of those who complete the regular courses in food and nutrition in the home 
economics department. A member of the home economics staff gives the food 
lectures. The following topics indicate the work covered: 

1. An appreciation of the importance of food including a study of the sources 
of our food and food laws. 



540 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

2. A study of diet for normal adults. 

3. A study of diet for infants and children of all ages, and diets for some 
abnormal conditions of adults. 

The students are greatly interested in the work and make application of the 
knowledge gained in attempting to better their own health through diet, in 
bettering the kind of meals served in boarding houses and sorority houses, and 
in improving the diets of members of their owti families. 

Many members of these classes are engaged girls for whom feeding problems 
are real and immediate ones, and such a course offers almost the only 
opportunity to gain knowledge concerning them. 

There is a great need for this work, and a large opportunity is offered, 
through the medium of a required course, for college women to become more 
intelligent caretakers of themselves and others in the matter of health through 
the selection of food. 

HOME ECONOMICS FOR BOYS 

IIASY RUTH FISHER 
Supervisor of Home Economics, Twin Falls, Idaho 

Home economics for boys! Immediately there comes to the minds of the 
persons not famihar with the content of home economics the picture of a 
"Mama's darhng" with an embroidery hoop; but the course as offered, com- 
posed of six units given in the order I shall use in this brief discussion, was 
taken up from the standpoint of a real boy. 

All boys eat, in fact most of them live to eat; so we used this as a starting 
point for our first unit, foods. We discussed what to eat, both normally and 
before and after a game. We learned digestion, food values, and body needs. 

During our second unit, clothing, we studied pure and adulterated fabrics, 
cleaning, pressing, simple mending and other things men should know to make 
them intelligent buyers. 

Budgets, sa\angs, investments struck a most reponsive chord. We kept 
itemized expense accounts and made out budgets; we studied intelligent 
banking, safe investments, life insurance, and other money problems. 

Care of sick, first aid, and general health helps made up the next unit. We 
learned to administer artificial respiration, to do simple bandaging, and to 
take personal daily exercise. 

The "joy unit" proved to be "Duties of a Host." Our discussions were 
extremely frank, dealing with all phases of actions, etiquette, and manners. 

In camp cookery, the last unit, we studied cooking from Uie standpoint of 
a man out of doors. Only those foods interesting to men and done in a man's 
way were considered. 

Home economics for boys interesting? Decidedly. And the boys declare 
it the most beneficial course they have ever taken. 



1922] RESEARCH METHODS IN TEXTILES 541 

textile section 

ho:me projects in the seventh and eighth grades 

ANNE C. PLATT 

Sealtle Schools 

In order that we may understand the fundamentals of a home project let 
us look briefly into its requirements. A home project must not only meet the 
need of girls; it must meet the need of the indi%'idual girl. In other words, it 
must be a "purposeful activity" on the part of the girl. It must offer experi- 
ence in homemaking activities in as nearly normal conditions as possible, 
while developing both her managerial and manipulative powers. This must 
all be done, not alone by the girl under the guidance of the teacher, but with 
the close cooperation of the mother, who is the true manager of the home. 

There are a number of home projects in textiles that are valuable both to 
the girl and to her home. Among them are renovating and remodeling of 
clothes for herself or other member of the family; planning wardrobe for herself 
or other member of the family for one year; washing her own dresses or children's 
play clothing or underclothing; laundering curtains, care of linen closet; remov- 
ing stains, care of family linen; family mending; care of baby brother's or sister's 
clothing; selection and making of drapes or curtains for her own room; making 
more attractive some other room in the home. 

In all home project work we must remember, as teachers, that we are not 
"teaching" these girls, in the commonly accepted meaning of the word, but 
rather working wilh them on their problems. 

RESEARCH METHODS IN TEXTILES 

RUTH O'BRIEN 
Chemistry Department, Iowa State College 

Choke of the Problem. The choice of a problem is, after all, the first, and 
often one of the most difBcult, tasks. It is so difficult that your research 
committee has been besieged by requests for lists of suitable problems. I have 
little sympathy with such requests or attempts to comply with them. The 
student, the amateur, comes to an instructor for a problem. That is her 
privilege. If that instructor does not know the field well enough to select a 
fruitful problem, I doubt if she has the ability to direct its study intelligently. 
And why expect or demand that every instructor direct research? It is, after 
all, congenial and profitable only when she has at least three qualifications. 
First, she must have previous training in the general methods of research and 
experience in studying a problem herself. 

Second, she must be well read and must have the time or, more important 
still, the inclination to keep herself up to date in her field. 



542 THE joiHRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Third, there is perhaps such a thing as a research type of mind and it 
might be well to inquire whether your textile investigator possesses such. 
However, personally, I believe such an endowment to be a sane, straight-think- 
ing brain plus the willingness to work. 

What are the standards for the problem chosen? (1) It must be one which 
has not been satisfactorily solved before. (2) It must be compatible with the 
particular training of the director. (3) It must be compatible with the 
pre\'ious training of the student. (4) It must be compatible with the resources 
of the laboratory. (5) It must be such that results can be reasonably expected 
in the time allotted for the work. This is particularly true when a student's 
degree is involved. (6) It should not encroach upon the field of another 
investigator or duplicate work already under way. 

The study of the problem. There is very little which can be said concerning 
the actual study of research problems, as they differ too widely in nature. 
Perhaps it can all be summarized by saying that we must be sure that our 
thought, our instruments, our raw materials, our conditions (those we hold 
constant and those we vary) are calibrated. We must know their value, their 
properties, to a degree equivalent to the scientific accuracy of a calibrated 
instrument. Clear, hard thinking on every phase of the development is 
demanded; and good courage, always. It is also important to know when to 
remove a student from a problem and place her upon another. 

Results. Results should be recorded in as comprehensible a manner as 
possible, stated clearly and concisely, and published in our Journal of Home 
Economics. We all regret the limitations which must be placed upon the 
length of the articles accepted by the Journal but that is only another 
incentive to get results reported in concise form. 

TESTING MERCHANDISE 

ROSE FRASER 

Fellow in Textiles, University of Washington 

The Home Economics Department of the University of Washington received 
an annual fellowship of S600 for a graduate student who gives a part of her 
time to the store, testing merchandise. It is known as the Bon March6 
Industrial Fellowship in Textile Research. Frances Grant Heverlo, a former 
home economics teacher, has developed a unique personal service department 
in the store, and it was largely through her efforts that the fellowship was made 
possible. This intimate connection between the textiles laboratory and one 
business house is the outgrowth of years of cooperation with many stores. 
Miss Denny, assistant professor of home economics, has tested goods when 
requests came, and conducted evening classes for store people. 

We have not only had to work out methods of testing but we have had to 
sell the idea to the more conservative people in the store. The policy has 



1922] BUSINESS MEETINGS 543 

been to make controlled tests on materials as requested by merchandise 
heads. For the most part tests have been confined to composition both by the 
chemical and microscopic methods, with work also on fading in sunlight, 
washing, wrinkhng, shrinkage, and wear as shown by the abrasion apparatus. 

BUSINESS MEETINGS 

Business meetings of the Textile Section were held August 3 and 4, Grace 
Deimy, Acting Chairman, presiding in the absence of Agnes Houston Craig, 
Chairman. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved and the following 
committees appointed: Nominating — Helen Lee Davis, Chairman; Aims and 
Program for 1922-23— Ruth O'Brien, Chairman. 

The treasurer's report was presented by Ethelwyn Dodson as follows: 

Dues received $205 .00 

Bills for correspondence 12. 00 

Total on hand $193.00 

Report of the Chairman, Agnes Houston Craig, read by Miss Denny. 

The Chairman of the Section wishes to report items toward progress and to submit for 
your study and consideration certain recommendations. 

1. Appreciating the previous work so well begun by a smaU group of te.xtile specialists, 
it seemed wise to strengthen the opportunities for its continuation. For this reason the 
Te.xtile Section was organized on an independent financial basis at the Swampscott meeting 
in July, 1921. 

2. The membership goal of 500 was considered high. It was adopted, however, as a spur. 
Miss Dodson's last report shows 200. In addition to the work of the membership committee, 
the Chairman has sent out over 500 letters on membership and has presented the cause to 
over twenty organizations. In the Joitrnal, February, 1922, page 85, there appeared a letter 
from the Chairman in which she asked that textile people send in their names and subscrip- 
tions without waiting for a special invitation. Money we spend on postage cannot be used 
for research. The Chairman emphasizes this suggestion. 

3. Miss Birdseye has been untiring in her work and counsel to the end that we might gain 
further cooperation from such agencies as the National Research Council, the Smithsonian 
Institute, the National Association of Cotton Manufacturers. We have corresponded c 
consulted with such leaders as Mr. Howe, and Mr. Corse, of the National Reseach Counci.: 
Mr. Lewton, in charge of Textile Exhibits, Smithsonian Institute; lir. Fisher and Mr. Walen, 
National .Association of Cotton Manufacturers. 

4. On request from Mr. Howe, the Chairman named sLx persons, subject to call from tlij 
National Research Council, to assist in formulating policies for finance and v.ork that would 
make Textile Research for the consumer a permanent fact in the program of the National 
Research Council. The persons named were Miss Trilling, Mrs. Wooi;:.an, Mrs. McGowan, 
Miss O'Brien, Miss Birdseye, Jfiss Crooks, Miss Craig. 

5. The Chairman is informed that her own experience is true, namelj', that too few textile 
specialists send in contributions to the Jodenal or to other magazines. Some articles are 
being prepared, but more are desirable. Too little has been accomplished here, up to date. 



544 THE joxiRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

6. Miss Birdseye and the Chairman worked out a tentative draft of a program for next 
year. This draft was sent out to over twenty people for criticism, and constructive sugges- 
tions. Our recommendations have been referred to the committee considering the program 
for 1922-23. 

Report accepted. 

Report of Present Status of Research in Standardization, Miriam Birdseye, 
Chairman, read by Miss Demiy. 

Report of Committee on Aims and Program for 1922-23 presented by Ruth 
O'Brien, chairman. 

The following aims for the Textile Section of the American Home Economics Association 
are submitted for your approval: 

1. To stimulate interest on the part of special teachers of textiles and clothing, and to 
improve educational standards in this field. 

2. To organize and work toward better policies in production, manufacture, retailing 
and consumption. 

3. To estabUsh a fellowship for investigation in the interest of this section, as soon as funds 
permit. 

The following recommendations are submitted: 

1. That the work of the Textile Section for the coming year be concentrated in the fol- 
lowing committees: 

a. Membership Committee to select a representative for each state from the list secured 
at this meeting and conduct an intensive campaign for membership of this section, and 
encourage subscription to the Journal. 

b. Committee on Standardization. 

c. Committee on Research. Both of these committees to continue work as already 
organized. 

d. Committee on Commercial Relations to inquire into methods used to establish rela- 
tions between commercial firms and the teacher, and offer plans to help the teacher establish 
such relations. 

e. Committee on Educational Essentials in this field to evaluate the subject matter which 
should be presented, either within or without our schools. 

2. That the secretary of the section send to all section members, a statement of the finan- 
cial plans of the section. 

3. That the section support the research program of the Standardization Committee to 
the extent of 75 per cent of the funds available this year. 

4. That Mr. \Vm. M. Corse, of the National Research Council, and Mr. F. R. McGowan, 
head of the Textile Section of the Bureau of Standards, be elected honorary members of the 
Textile Section. 

Report accepted. 

Report of Nominating Committee read and accepted. Officers for 1922-23: 
Chairman, Ruth O'Brien, Iowa State College, Ames; Vice-chairman, Ethel 
Webb, Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Secretary, Rose Shonka, Supervisor 
of Home Economics, Lincoln, Nebraska; Treasurer, Beulah Blackmore, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. 

Committee chairmen were appointed as follows: Membership, Mabel 
McBane; Standardization, Doris Schumaker; Commercial Relations, Marian 
WeUer. 



1922] TR.'UNING OF HOSPITAL DIETITIANS 545 

INSTITUTION ECONOMICS SECTION 

THE TRAINING OF HOSPIT.\L DIETITIANS 

LENNA F. COOPER 
School of Home Economics, Bailie Creek 

Before attempting to outline a program of training for any specific job, 
it would seem appropriate to analyze it. The dietitian's job as it is and as it 
should be, may be quite different propositions. As it is now and as it was 
fifteen years ago are also different propositions. It would be sad indeed if 
there were no goals ahead. 

As the position is defined by liospital superintendents today, it consists of 
two tjTjes: (1) diet kitchen supervision; (2) food department supervision. 
In the first type of supervision, the following are the duties as usually outined: 
1. The planning and supervision of all special and weighed diets and nourish- 
ments. 2. Catering to private patients, if such there are. 3. Ordering 
supplies from steward or storeroom. 4. Supervision of the serving of all food 
prepared in the diet kitchen. 5. Supervision of the cleaning in diet kitchen. 
6. Teaching of dietetics, foods, and cookery to nurses. Such a dietitian is 
usually responsible to the superintendent of nurses and is ranked as a member 
of the faculty of the nurses training school. 

The second type of position is one of larger responsibility. The duties 
include not only those of type 1, but the following in addition: 1. Planning 
menus for the entire household, including the regular or house diet for patients, 
menus for staff, nurses, and domestic help. 2. Supervision of kitchens, dining 
rooms and ser\dng rooms, also pantries and refrigerators. 3. Buying of food 
(this she may or may not do). 4. Checking up the bills of the department. 
5. Hiring the help of the department. This dietitian is usually recognized 
as head of her department, being directly responsible to the superintendent of 
the hospital. 

In the first tj^pe of position the dietitian is concerned cliiefly with the special 
diet work, while the administrative phase of the work is not especially em- 
phasized. In the second type of work, the administrative duties predominate, 
though this type of worker must also give careful attention to the special 
diets, unless she is fortunate enough to have an assistant who may relieve her 
of this detail. In both positions the dietitian is an instructor, a member of 
the training school faculty. 

The first type is not an ideal position for a competent dietitian except in 
very large hospitals, but it is a stepping stone for the inexperienced dietitian, 
who may the more easily and successfully acquire the technique of her pro- 
fession by becoming familiar with the fewer duties before undertaking the 
larger responsibilities. The second type is becoming more and more the rec- 
ognized status of the dietitian. 



546 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The training of the dietitian consists of two types: (1) class room instruc- 
tion; (2) hospital apprenticeship, neither of which is complete without the other. 
As a group we are particularly concerned with the class room instruction. 

As courses of study are now arranged, they are usually two or four years in 
length. The two year course should be considered as strictly vocational in 
character. In any course for dietitians, the sciences must be made the foun- 
dation, particularly chemistry, bacteriology, and physiology. 

Sufficient time must be given to the foods courses to acquire skill in prepara- 
tion. Ten to twelve semester hours is none too long to spend in this subject, 
this to include quantity cookery. We believe also that the instruction should 
be of very definite character, intended to develop a good technique rather than 
to be merely illustrative of principles involved. 

The courses in nutrition and diet in disease cannot be too thorough. These 
courses should be made practical and, where possible, students should observe 
and assist with nutrition classes or cHnics held in public schools and in con- 
nection with city clinics. We have found it of value to preface our course in 
diet in disease by a series of lectures on diseases, including ' the pathology, 
symptoms, prognosis, and general lines of treatment, this course being given 
by a physician. This not only lays a good foundation for the study of special 
diets following, but acquaints the dietitian with medical terms and ideas. 

The institution administration courses are essential. As a part of these 
courses there should be one in organization, in which types of institutions 
should be studied, together with their relation to their communities; the rela- 
tion of management and the personnel; the relation of the dietitian to the 
institution, including her specific duties, what is meant by line of authority, 
labor turnover, how to manage help, etc. Following this there should be 
courses in architecture of institutions, institutional housekeeping and laundrj', 
institutional equipment, large quantity cookery (mentioned under foods), 
and simple accounting. 

Psychology, economics, and physics have their place in a dietitian's training, 
though time will not permit of exhaustive courses. 

The ne.xt step in the training of the dietitian should be accompUshed in a 
hospital under the supervision of a thoroughly trained and experienced dieti- 
tian. The hospital should be sufficiently large to present the various phases 
of dietary work. The objects sought for in this pupil dietitian course are: 
1. To give opportunity to put into practice the class room instruction, repeating 
a sufficient number of times to "make perfect." 2. To develop skill in doing 
and in managing. 3. To become familiar with hospital organization and 
methods. 



1922] TRAINING OF HOSPITAL DIETITIANS 547 

The following pupil course, given in a large hospital, covers the field of 
training very well, and is here presented as a typical well planned course: 

I. Practical Work. 

A. Special diet kitchen. Time, six weeks. 

1. Training in nourishment and special order work. 

2. Preparation of weighed diets. 

3. Supervision study. 

a. Calculation of diets for diabetes, nephritis, hyperthyroidism and excess 

metabolism. 

b. Ordering and checking of supplies. 

c. Management of employees. 

d. Professional visits to the patients on weighed diets. 

B. Floor service. Time, two weeks. 

1. Diet pantry service in the six medical wards. 

C. Children's Hospital. Time, two weeks. 

1. Preparation of infant formulas. 

2. Study of the relation of the feeding to the case. 

D. Nurses' Home. Time, two weeks. 

1. Institutional problem in kitchen, dining room, and bake shop management. 

2. Buying, filing, and inventory study. 

a. Buying, trips with the dietitian in charge. 

E. Social Service. Time, one month. 

1. Casework in maternity, children's, orthopedics, and heart cases under a 
trained worker. 
n. Theoretical Work. 

A. Class work. 

1. Weekly round table discussions on hospital problems. 

2. Assigned weekly readings in the recent magazines. 
,3. Observations in the teaching of student nurses. 

a. Planning of teaching outlines. 

b. Teaching under supervision whenever possible. 

B. Field work. 

1. Weekly trips to places of special interest. 

2. Weekly medical clinics. 

3. Some nurses' classes by special arrangement. 

Not every hospital can offer all that is given above, but all should offer 
experience in the management of both the diet kitchen and a large kitchen 
where an institutional problem is involved. 

As one of the objects of the pupil course is to become familiar with hospital 
organization and methods, she should be permitted as far as possible to meet 
the various groups, heads of departments, and executives. If practicable she 
should live in the nurses' home. 



548 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

THE TEACHING OF INSTITUTION MANAGEMENT AND THE 
CURRICULUM FOR PROPER INSTRUCTION 

RUTH LUSBY 
University of Washington 

I. Teaching of Institution Management 

A. Aims 

1. Development of professional points of view: sympathetic in- 

terests, understanding of problems, social minded vision, appre- 
ciation of limitations of knowledge and experience. 

2. Experience: gives skill, self-confidence, assurance, knowledge 

of specific types of management. 

3. Technical Training: gives specific knowledge and specific skill 

but no amount is adequate without professional experience. 

B. How to attain standards set 

1. Survey of opportunities: hospital dietitians, state dietitians, 

school lunch room managers, manager of college cafe and 
dining halls, commercial positions in tea rooms, cafes, res- 
taurants, hotels, teaching of institutional management. 

2. Selection of group: important to select the persons showing 

characteristics desired, keep size of group commensurate 
with opportunities in field and with facilities for training. 
Ideal situation is training in schools with opportunity for 
observation and experience. 
n. Curriculum of essentials 

1. Instructor with sound training, wide experience, and actively engaged 

in managerial work. 

2. Four year course with strong supporting courses in economics, sociol- 

ogy, business administration. 

3. Practice field giving opportunity for definite responsibility and widely 

varied experience. Field to be supervised by department. 

4. A definite period of internship in some institution under supervision 

of trained dietitian, work of student to be planned to avoid exploi- 
tation; report to be made by student and by dietitian. 
To meet the requirements that I have stated we are offering at the Univer- 
sity of Washington five courses in institutional management: large quantity 
cookery, buying and dietaries, practice work I, practice work II, and institu- 
tional management — a summary course in organization and administration. 
Summary 

1. Responsibility of every home economics woman interested in the institu- 
tional field to do her utmost by suggestion or active work to extend 



1922] DORMITORY DINING HALL M.\NAGEMENT 549 

the field, to develop opportunities for employment of trained women in 
food and housekeeping supervision. 
2. To utilize in our educational institutions giving training in institutional 
administration every facility at our command to develop students who 
retain and raise the standards we set for institutional management. 

DORA-nXORY DINING HALL MANAGEMENT AND INSTI- 
TUTIONAL TEACHING 

ALICE H. MUSTARD 
Stale College of Washinglon, Pullman 

The dormitory management at the State College of Washington is directed 
by three heads: Social, Dean of women and matrons; Housekeeping, Superin- 
tendent of buildings; Dining Halls, Department of Institutional Management 
in the College of Home Economics. 

We have five dormitories of which three are for women, and two for men. 
Two of these dormitories for women have dining halls in which we serve 
120 and 200 women, respectively. One of the dormitories for men has a 
dining room in which we ser\-e about 550. 

We have a head dietitian and two assistants, each one taking the responsi- 
bility of managing a dining hall. The head dietitian has general supervision 
over all the dining halls, she does the main buying, and the miscellaneous 
local buying is handled by each dietitian for her own hall. 

All finances are handled through the college accountant. At the end of each 
four weeks the expenses of food, laundry, overhead, salaries, etc., in connection 
with the dining hall, are divided, and each student pays for the actual cost of 
the food plus service. 

After the students have completed all the prerequisites to institutional 
management, they take a course in quantity cookery which meets three times 
a week, three hours each time. They prepare and serve all the food sold in 
a cafeteria for eight weeks, then that sold in a tea room for sLx weeks; the re- 
mainder of the semester is used for special institutional catering. 

This course is followed by the institutional management courses both semes- 
ters of the senior year. The lectures include institutional menu making, 
marketing, institutional organization and administration, and institutional 
equipment and buying. Time is allowed for advanced study for those pre- 
paring for positions as hospital dietitians, cafeteria, lunchroom, tea room, 
dormitory, or other institutional managers. 

One part of the laboratory is so arranged that the girls have the responsi- 
bility of acting each as manager, assistant manager, cashier, and manager 
without an assistant, by managing the junior girls in the quantity cookery 
class. AH of this work is done under close supervision. 



550 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The other part of the laboratory work is done in the dormitories, each of 
which has a different equipment and arrangement. The girls do the actual 
preparation of food at the beginning of the semester. Later they are given 
the responsibility of plaiming menus, taking inventories, keeping accounts, 
and ordering. 

A NEW PHASE OF INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT 

M. MAXWELL 

Montana presents a new phase of the institutional management field — 
that of the high school dormitory. There are about twenty-four, most of them 
being located at county high schools, where the students have to come great 
distances. The price charged for board and room is nominal, just covering 
costs. 

Thirty students is the average number accomodated per dormitory but 
there are a few places which have as many as a hundred. 

The work of caring for these students and supervising their social and health 
habits is a great improvement on the old plan of allowing the country students 
to board and room anywhere. Great credit is due the superintendents of 
these schools and their managers, and the home economics and institutional 
workers consider it a great privilege when they are able to assist them. 

BUSINESS MEETINGS 

Business meetings of the Institution Economics Section were held August 3 
and 5, Efl&e Raitt, Chairman, presiding. 

The report of the minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

A vote of thanks was given to Miss Bozarth of the University of Montana 
for her excellent work in arranging the programs for the section meetings. 

The report of the nominating committee, nominating Sibylla Hadwen as 
chairman and Emma Knight as secretary, was accepted and the election 
unanimous. 

The report of the nominating committee as to program of work for the year 
was read as follows: 

The Nominating Committee makes the following recommendations. 
A. That the work of the Institution Economics Section of the American Home Economics 
Association concern itself with the following matters which its members feel to be 
of the utmost importance, both to the best interests of the section and to the whole 
home economics movement. 

1. Registration of persons interested in Lustitution administration — Nola Treat. 

2. Communication between members — Miss Knight. 

3. Stimulation of inter-relations with other organizations with similar interests such 

as the Y.W.C.A., the National Restaurant Associations, the Hotel Associa- 
tion — Miss McAuley. 



1922] BUSINESS MEETINGS 551 

4. Relation with the Journal of Home Economics — Katharine Fisher. 

5. Definition of standards of the profession — Lenna Cooper. 

6. Research — Margaret Proctor. 

B. As a possible means of developing the program of work, the committee makes these 
recommendations : 

1. That there be a Registration Committee appointed to obtain a list of home economics 
women interested in institution administration, such a list to be filed in the existing card 
index system of the section. It is further recommended that this list be mimeographed and 
available for distribution to those interested, on request. That this Registration Committee 
be further empowered to instigate and stimulate communication throughout the membership 
of the section. That the membership of the Registration Committee be regional, includ- 
ing Canada. 

2. That a committee on inter-relations be appointed whose function it shall be to discover 
opportunities and requirements in the field of institution administration and that this 
information be communicated to the secretary of the section, who may keep it on file for 
the information of the members. That this committee further cordial relations, as far as it 
deems this advisable, with other business and professional organizations. That members of 
the inter-relations committee be supplied with stationery of the American Home Economics 
Association, inscribed isnth the sub-heading "Institution Economics Section." 

3. It is urged that the Institution Economics Section function through the Journal of 
Home Economics through short, original articles concerning various phases of institution 
administration. 

4. It is recommended that a member of the Institution Economics Section be appointed 
on the Research Committee of the Association. And it is respectfully suggested that, due to 
her varied e.xperience and fine work, Margaret Proctor of the Y. W. C. A. be the person 
appointed as our member on this committee. 

5. It is recommended that a committee on standards be appointed to consider some of 
the questions of standards of terminologj'. It is suggested that, among the questions con- 
sidered, the following receive attention: nomenclature, standards of training in institution 
administration, uniforms. For example: the adoption of the term "dietitian interne" 
to describe home economics graduates taking training courses in hospitals under the super- 
vision of a graduate recognized dietitian; the definition and adoption of certain descriptive 
terms for types of work in institution administration, such as house director, administrative 
dietitian, medical dietitian, matron, housekeeper, manager, director, assistant manager. 
That standards of training be studied on the basis of existing reports and recommendations 
of the Association. 

6. The committee makes the suggestion that in the future the chairman of the Institution 
Economics Section be appointed for a second year in order that an opportunity be given for 
progressive work. 

Report accepted. 



552 THE joiiRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

HOME ECONOMICS EXTENSION SECTION 

A REPORT ON RURAL LIFE SURVEY 

BESS M. ROWE 
Field Editor, The Farmer's Wife 

The letter contest carried on by The Farmer's Wife on the question, "If 
you had a daughter of marriageable age, would you want her to marr)' a farmer 
and make her future life on the farm," was plaimed to give the farm woman 
a chance to express herself nationally about her own job. We felt that the 
things that have been written about her do not at all express her own attitude 
as we have observed it. 

By March first we had received letters and articles from more than 7,000 
farm women, representing every state in the Union, and Canada, Alaska, and 
Porto Rico. They also represented every economic layer and every type of 
farm home. Of these 7,000 farm women, 94 per cent are unreservedly in 
favor of farm life for their daughters. They feel that if rural schools and rural 
churches are not as they should be, it is the "job" of the rural woman to make 
them so. They also realize their responsibihty in training their daughters to 
be efficient farm wives and mothers, to appreciate the privileges and overcome 
the obstacles of farm life for the woman on the farm. 

The results of this contest may be summed up in one sentence: Rural women 
feel that their daughters will find the best chance for self-development, the 
best chance for self expression, the best chance for service, and therefore the best 
chance for happiness, on the farm. 

ARE HOME DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS OF WORK EDUCA- 
TIONALLY SOUND, ECONOMICALLY IMPORTANT, 
SOCIOLOGICALLY CONSTRUCTIVE? 

C. W. PUGSLEY 

Assistant Secretary of Agriculture 

If our programs of work are educationally sound, then it must necessarily 
follow that they are economically important and sociologically constructive. 
To be educationally sound we must be teachers in the truest sense of the word. 
We must be using the right principles, the right words, the right charts, bulle- 
tins, and methods of contact. In bringing about a fuU and complete apprecia- 
tion of rural life, we must not forget that instruction is more likely to find 
lodgment in the minds of young than of old, that the easiest approach to adults 
is through the boys and girls; hence the importance of boys' and girls' club 
work. Agriculturally speaking, if a large proportion of extension funds could 



1922] HOME DEMONSTR.A.TION AND RESEARCH SPECIALISTS 553 

be expended for the next ten years in the development of boys' and girls' club 
work, it would mean the best expenditure of time and money. 

Our programs are economically important if they add to the income of 
the farmer, if they make this income go further, and if they contribute to the 
economic independence of the farmer so that he can appreciate rural life in its 
possibilities. 

Our programs are sociologically constructive if they contribute to the con- 
tentment and joy of farm women, if they are the means of getting people 
together so that they may enjoy community life. To this end, the motion 
pictures, the local meeting, the township meetings, or the county meetings 
should all lead the people to desire improvement of the mind and a better 
education of the right type. 

The agriculture of the nation may be likened to a tripod, with three support- 
ing legs — economic agricultural production, economic distribution of agricul- 
tural products, economic expenditure of the profits of these two transactions. 

If any one of the three legs is not functioning, the nation suffers. Farm 
women are economic producers as weU as the men. The expenditure of profits 
from the farm should make farm life more attractive. A unified extension 
program worked out by men and women on the farm getting together in a 
united meeting and agreeing to every point of the program should result in 
the creation of an atmosphere which wiU tend to make rural life more attractive 
and to lessen the drudgery usually connected with it. 

COOPERATION BETWEEN HOME DEMONSTRATION AND 
RESE.\RCH SPECIALISTS 

MINNA C. DENTON 
Assistant Chief, Office of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture 

The urgent necessity for increase of our existing fund of knowledge of further 
research is at once apparent to the extension or other teacher who makes an 
honest effort to acquire first-hand information concerning almost any disputed 
detail of every-day practice. How much the malnourished child should gain 
in the spring months as compared with the fall; how much vitamine is contained 
in plums, or mutton, or caimed tomato after cooked until thick, or turnip 
greens or warmed-over potatoes; what margin of profit there may be, for the 
woman who makes her own bread, or canned corn, or pectin jellies, or hats; 
which of the modem textile fabrics have passed satisfactory tests for durability; 
how to score an electric washing machine or a gas stove or a vacuum cleaner; 
whether fireless or pressure cooker represents better economy of time, effort, 
fuel, palatability, and nutritive values; what tests should be applied to deter- 
mine whether the girls' clubs have learned what they should in their sewing or 
cooking classes; how much may wisely be attempted in the gardening and 



554 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

canning budgets — these are a few illustrations of questions of great importance 
to many extension workers whose solution demands full information which is 
often difficult to obtain. 

Better contact between extension and research specialists can be attained, 
only if extension specialists persist in demanding first-hand information rather 
than in depending upon other authority; only if they deliberately plan a cam- 
paign to "sell" their problems to the research workers; only if the research 
specialists can be persuaded to supplement their laboratory observations with 
adequate field studies, and to re-state their results in terms of field experience. 

ADDITIONAL SPECIAL TRAINING FOR HOME DEMONSTRATION 
WORKERS 

RUBY GREEN SMITH 

The extension worker should be given more consideration in home economics 
courses. Non-essentials might be eliminated and more time given to courses 
applying to field needs. There are two ways of improving the preparation 
of the extension worker: require graduate study; change the requirements of 
the undergraduates so as to include a larger proportion of the cultural humani- 
ties and such specific aids as joumaUsm, administration, and public speaking. 

In order to meet the homemaker's needs the emphasis should be placed on 
home demonstration projects in the following order of their importance, in con- 
trast to the emphasis which has been given to projects in the past. First, child 
training, as the child is the most important of crops. Second, community 
enterprises, such as projects for better schools, more libraries, and satisfying 
wholesome recreation. Third, household management so as to free the home- 
maker's woman power for the higher life of the home and the community. 
Fourth, foods and nutrition. Fifth, marketing and income. Sixth, shelter 
projects in homestead equipment and beautification. Seventh, clothing. 
This comes last because the mother of little children should sew less rather 
than more. 

BUSINESS MEETINGS 

Business meetings of the Extension Section were held August 1 and 5, Mrs. 
Rena Maycock, Chairman, presiding. 

The opening session with an attendance of 82 was called to order by the 
Chairman. Stella Mather, State Leader of Nebraska, was appointed secre- 
tary in the absence of Frances L. Brown. 

After the reading of the minutes of the last meeting, held June 28, 1921, at 
Swampscott, the following nominating committee was appointed: Mrs. 
Myrtle G. Cole, Chairman; May Secrest, Essie Heyle. A committee on resolu- 
tions was appointed to assemble thoughts which this section wished to have 
embodied in the general resolutions of the Association. 



1922] BUSINESS MEETINGS 555 

At the second meeting of the Section the nominating committee recom- 
mended that Nina B. Crigler of Kansas be elected Chairman for 1922-23, and 
Addie D. Root of Missouri, Secretary'. Voted that the secretary cast the 
ballot for the officers named. 

Grace Frysinger, Chairman of the Committee on Requirements in the Train- 
ing of Home Demonstration Workers, gave a report of the work done by the 
committee up-to-date. The recommendations of the committee are as 
follows: 

I. (a) That the first two years of training be no dififerent from that of all home economics 
students, and that these years be utilized to train in the fundamental development, including 
science, literature, etc., and a minimum of technical courses, these being largely of a manipu- 
lative character. 

(b) That the decision as to specialization be made at the end of the sophomore year or 
that such decision be made following a course on the scope of the field of home economics and 
that particular effort be made to explain to home economics students this newer and less under- 
stood field of home economics education. 

(c) That the advanced two years be utilized for those courses which will broaden the 
horizon and social viewpoint of the student, and which require more mature judgment and 
experience — such courses should include economics, sociology, philosophy, etc. This period 
should also be used for courses in which the student may apply the basic principles studied in 
the earlier years in terms of the chosen field of activity. 

II. That sufficient interest has been manifested in such agricultural courses as bee raising, 
dairy, poultry, horticulture, etc., as to suggest that a survey course in agriculture would 
be a highly desirable course for all home economics students who may possibly find their field 
of endeavor in extension work or for those doing resident teaching in the smaller towns and 
consolidated rural schools. 

III. We urge that a definite efi'ort be made to give all undergraduates a thorough apprecia- 
tion of the field of extension teaching through courses in education and vocational guidance 
conferences. 

rV'. We believe that every prospective agent should have actual field experience and that 
this should be of approximately four to six weeks duration, one week at state headquarters 
gaining general knowledge of state conditions, personnel policies, and available help, and five 
to sLx weeks as assistant agent in a county with a successful home demonstration agent 
whose county conditions are fairly similar to the county where there is likelLhood the assistant 
agent may be located. 

In addition the recommendations of the committee are as follows: 

I. We recognize the very great need of certain tj'pes of information which may generally 
be classified as "service courses." We recommend that such courses be taken subsequently 
to the four year course rather than during that time, which we believe should be devoted to 
general development and technical courses. 

II. Since much of the work in extension is done directly with adults, we urge that courses in 
education be broadened to include consideration of the method of teaching the adult mind. 

III. Realizing that the responsibility for recommendation of courses of study for approval 
of committees on courses of study in the various institutions rests upon the head of the resi- 
dent home economics department, the committee recommend that the Extension Section 
authorize a copy of this report be forwarded by the secretary of the section to the head of the 
home economics department of every university and college, land grant and otherwise, for 
their earnest consideration in connection with revision of courses of study now offered, or 
proposed courses. 



556 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Report accepted. 

Voted that the committee be retained to continue their work alone the line 
of graduate study. 

The report of the Committee on Resolutions was called for and given as 
follows: 

1. The Extension Section favors the recommendation of Miss Secrest of California that, 
inasmuch as home demonstration work is a development of home economics and so of interest 
to all members of the home, to that end we recommend that the term for the furtherance of 
home demonstration work be changed from that of "woman" to "home." 

2. That we wish to express our appreciation for the gracious hospitality extended to us 
by the citizens of Portland, Corvallis, and of the Oregon Agricultural College. 

3. That Dr. Moore and the two mothers who gave such a worth while demonstration be 
given our vote of thanks. 

4. That the Home Economics Association take no action on the Voight Bill. 

5. That we commend the action of the Secretary of Agriculture in raising the office of 
Home Economics to a bureau of equal standing with other bureaus of the States Relations 
Service. 

Report accepted. 

Voted that we recommend to the General Program Committee that the 
last section of the Extension meeting be not held the last morning of the pro- 
gram when it is too late to offer resolutions of vital importance. 

Voted that the new chairman be empowered to appoint a program committee 
for this section for the following year and that such a committee begin work as 
soon as possible to get the desires of other members in outlining this program. 



HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION SECTION 

HOME ECONOMICS IN ADULT CLASSES 

ANNA E. RICHARDSON 
Chief, Home Economics Education Service, Federal Board for Vocational Education 

A study of the statistics of attendance at evening schools during the past 
5 years shows that the country is recognizing a real need for adidt education 
as a part of a national program of education. 

Some factors which have stimulated an interest in evening schools are: 

1. Illiteracy as cited from the draft figure. 

2. Physical weakness as shown by the fact that one out of every three men 
were found imfit for service in the national army. 

3. Industrial unrest and a recognition of vocational training as an important 
factor in job promotion. 



1922] HOME ECONOMICS IN ADULT CLASSES 557 

4. A new social consciousness of the nation's responsibility for reaching all 
of its people with education. 

The day schools have reached but a small group of boys and girls. The 
large number of our adult population dropped out of school in the early grades. 
Can we afford to limit our educational advantages to the small group who 
through good fortune in their early life had the opportunity for schooling? 

Who are the women to be reached by home economics in evening classes? 

1. Mothers of famiUes who in addition to wage earning outside of the home 
must also assume homemaking responsibilities. 

2. Mothers of families living on moderate incomes. 

3. Young women at work who expect soon to go into homes of their own. 

4. Young working and business women who want help in meeting the various 
homemakers' problems which face them, especially in regard to buying their 
clothes and choosing their food. 

What should the school offer in the way of instruction to these women? 

If we believe that the main function of all education is to adjust the individ- 
ual to his environment we can best answer this first question by answering 
a further question. What are the demands which modem life makes upon 
these women? 

1. Since we are agreed that every child has the right to be well born, it is 
imperative that our schools provide training which will aid our women to be 
physically fit both to bear and to rear children. 

2. Since it is the home's responsibility to care for the child up to school age, 
the school must offer training which will fit our women to care for the physical, 
social, and moral development of tlie child. 

3. Since modern life demands the greatest wisdom in expending the income, 
the school must offer courses which train in intelligent buying. 

4. Every woman must not only perform her duties as a homemaker but she 
must also assume the responsibilities of a citizen. No training is complete 
which does not recognize this demand. 

5. Modem life with its multitudinous activities makes it important that 
our evening classes not only offer vocational training but also training in the 
wise use of leisure time. This is as necessary for the home maker as it is for 
the woman employed in work in the factory or office. A true balance in 
education demands preparation for both work and recreation. 

The 48 states are meeting tliis problem of instruction in home economics in 
adult classes and are widening their programs so as to reach larger groups of 
women with more varied training. Practically all of the states are using federal 
funds to stimulate this type of vocational education, although in most of the 
states the amount of state funds used is many times in excess of federal funds. 



558 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

TEACHING CLASSES OF HALF A MH^LION 

MES. ELIZABETH MACDONALD 
Housekeeping Editor, The Modern Priscilla 

Teaching a small group by word of mouth and instructing hundreds of 
thousands through the printed page are two phases of the same problem. The 
basis of true success in either must be technical knowledge, checked up and 
tested through actual experience. 

Home economics teaching in the schools is going to have a precarious footing 
wherever the average mother suspects that her daughter's teacher has never 
kept house, or in any community in which the school committee men believe 
their wives can do a better job at homemaking than the instructor paid by tax 
money to hold classes in household management. The case of the printed 
page is even clearer than that of the school room. Here we deal directly with 
the pupil. She hires the teacher. She is mature, slirewd, and experienced. 
She can tell whether a piece of text was written about her job from imagination 
or from actual contact with a kitchen and a nursery. 

In the early days of home economics, when the term was first dressed in 
capital letters, mere homemakers were open to conviction about the wisdom 
possessed by "trained experts." So long as these e.xperts were of the quality 
of Mrs. Richards and Mrs. Lincoln the confidence was not betrayed. Suc- 
ceeding such women, attracted by what was apparently an easy success, we 
have suffered from another group whose talking and writing has been done 
with no home experience except a vicarious one. Too much teaching, both in 
the form of talking and WTiting, is still done by women whose only practice 
in homemaking has been in a class room, a practice house, a kitchenette, or an 
advertising agency. Personal magnetism or literary charm cannot com- 
pensate for a greater ignorance of actual conditions that than of the women to 
whom the speaking or writing is addressed. 

In this convinction, that home economics teaching to be valid should 
be done only by trained women having actual and constant home experi- 
ence, the Priscilla Proving Plant was established. It is a real home in 
the only thorough meaning of the word, i.e., a house lived in physically, 
mentally, and spiritually by a family group comprised of mother, father, 
and cliildren. In this Priscilla Proving Plant all of the housekeeping material 
published in the Modern Priscilla is worked out, as well as our body of un- 
published research on foods, household management, and domestic arts. 

Among class-room teachers of home economics there is much careless criti- 
cism of magazine work. \Vlien these teachers have had real home experience, 
and such experience must include full responsibility in typical conditions, 
especially including the care of children, then we shall have vital articles. 
Home economics will then contribute to the home an advance in comfort and 
simplification of labor, rivaling the record so far held chiefly by commercial 
agencies. 



1922] ADJUSTMENTS IN TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS 559 

ADJUSTMENTS DESIRABLE IN TEACHER TRAINING 
INSTITUTIONS 

LOXnSE STANLEY 
Department 0/ Home Economics, University of Missouri 

The most important factor in producing better trained teachers of home 
economics is good college teaching. The future teachers learn more by ex- 
ample than by precept. The work of the class in methods will be nullified by 
poor teaching. 

The instructors in the teacher training institutions must know state con- 
ditions and home conditions and problems in order to give subject matter 
which will function. They must develop in their students an appreciation of 
the adaptation they should make in the subject matter for particular groups. 
They should know school conditions in order to realize the problems the 
students will face as future teachers. 

It is essential that a visiting teacher from the teacher training institution 
follow students into the field, at least for the first year of teaching. She 
will become acquainted with state conditions, find out the weak points in the 
teacher training program and, at the same time, be of direct service to the 
young teacher who is facing problems upon which she needs help. The results 
of the findings of the visiting teacher should be reported to the members of 
the staff. 

The teacher training institution should provide facilities for observation of 
good teaching and for practice teaching in various types of schools for which 
students are being trained. Practice teaching should not be limited to class 
room procedure, but the student teachers should have an opportunity to 
participate in all acitivities which usually form a part of the duties of high 
school teachers. 

The institution should select those students best fitted to teach. Many 
who do not want to teach are forced into it because other opportunities are 
not open to them. Others go into it until they acquire the experience and 
maturity required for other lines. This situation can be bettered by working 
out more satisfactory arrangments for placement. It would seem advisable 
that for work in which training and experience are desirable the graduates 
acquire it in assistant positions in these fields rather than in the public schools. 



560 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE 

THE NEED FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE FUNDAMENTAL 
PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMICS IN THE HOME 

S. AGNES DONHAM 
Association for Promotion and Protection of Savings, Boston 

Economics for economics' sake has been the foundation upon which we, 
as home economics students, have seemingly based our study of the fun- 
damental principles of economics in the past. Economics for home prog- 
ress' sake is what we, as home economics teachers, should insist upon. 

One economist has defined the science of economics as "the science of human 
choices." Its principles may be applied to any form of human activity. 
Economics for the individual varies from economics for the nation so far as the 
choices of the individual vary from those of the nation. In either case wise 
choice makes for economy and the principles which govern those choices are 
the same. 

The science of economics has through study and analysis become technical 
in its language, and, because the common people have ignored it as a science 
and the students of economics have neglected to present the fundamental 
principles in a language which everyone could understand, there has grown up 
a feeling that it is a subject outside of everyday life, dependent for its very 
existence upon the theories of the student, and impossible of application to the 
problems of business or home life. 

As teachers of home economics it is our duty to translate into the language 
of the homemaker the principles which govern wise choices in the home just 
as surely as they govern wise choices in our national and business structures. 
But interpretation is necessary. Possible application of principles must be 
taught; and we must do the work, not only because there is no one else who 
does it, but because we are apparently the one group standing where we may 
see both sides. 

A short outline, developed from that published by Prof. T. N. Car\'er, of 
Harvard University, in his book "Elementary Principles of Economics," 
showing the source and utilization of income, whether private, public, or social, 
will best indicate what I want to show here of the interdependence of these 
four branches of economics. 

Home Economics (The use of private income) 

A. The family as producers — Buyers of raw materials, fabrics, foods; producers of finished 

goods 

B. The family as consumers — Food, shelter, clothing, utilities, means of development 
Business Economics 

A. The production of private income 

B. A source of public income 



1922] FUKDAMENTAL PRINCrPLES OF ECONOMICS IN HOME 561 

Government and Economics (Public finance) 

A. Sources of public income — Taxes, royalties, etc. 

B. The utilization of public income — Government expenditures 
Social Economics 

A. Sources of social income — Production, exchange, and distribution of goods 

B. Utilization of social income — Consumption by homes, business, government 

I am not an economist, I am a home economics teacher, searching for the 
truth which shall set right the thing which is wrong in our homes. We have 
too long beheved that if we live on less than we have and do no evil to our neigh- 
bor we are socially and spiritually justified in spending as we choose. That 
our spending has a direct and im.mediate effect upon the business and social 
life of the nation and the world, that we, the homemakers are consumers and 
economically responsible for right or wrong conditions which exist in business, 
that we as citizens are responsible for the production and utilization of public 
and social income, seems never to have entered into the minds, and certainly 
is not included in the education of the ordinary homemaker, whether man or 
woman. 

National waste has its beginnings in home and family wastes. Social wastes 
exist because of the attitude of the home. Our waste of natural resources, 
a national disgrace, will never be remedied until habits of saving have been 
established in the home. Waste of labor through idleness, poor adjustments, 
unemployment, lack of honest standards, is an economic problem, and becomes 
a home economics problem if we realize that the home standards are influencing 
business and industrial standards. 

Men and women must weigh the cost and the benefit in the home and choose. 
And we must realize that wise choice in the home tends toward greater wisdom 
of choice in business, and society, and nation. 

The homemaker needs: 

1. Financial education — the earmarks of a safe investment, business forms 
and methods, simple accounting. 

2. Marketing knowledge and imderstanding of the fallacy of boycotts, causes 
of price ^•ariations, effect of purchasing out-of-season foods, reasons for pur- 
chase of home products, cost of cleanliness and sanitation in foods, tlie ad- 
vantages of present expenditure to obtain future results, factors in the cost of 
distribution of products and goods, the results of our demands in fabrics and 
fashions, the amount of our expenditures for gum, tobacco, candy, etc. 

3. Balance of expenditures for transient luxuries with that for education, 
health, parks, and playgrounds. 

4. Understanding of the results of ill adjustment of human labor, the effect 
of our desire to produce finished goods rather than raw materials, the call 
of industry vs. call of land. 

All these affect home life and the cost of home essentials. Why have we so 
long considered them as belonging to a field apart from the home? 



562 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Our profession seems to be almost alone in having the entrance to both sides 
of this house of knowledge and application. Why do we continue to teach 
only of the arts and principles of life within four walls and forget that each one 
of these is built upon an economic foundation which we are ignoring, but which 
we have recognized in the name we have taken for our profession? If we are 
to confine our teaching to the principles of domestic science why not content 
ourselves with that title? If we aspire to be considered economists, we must 
in the near future prove our right to the use of the word. 

It is our pri\dlege as home economics workers to justify the use of our title 
by teaching that economic laws and principles must be applied to successful 
physical, intellectual, and spiritual life in the home. 

ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF HOUSEHOLD 
MANAGEMENT WORK 

A. GRACE JOHNSON 
Oregon AgricuUural College 

The household management courses of our schools have developed because 
of a realization that we needed some courses in which all phases of home 
economics as well as allied subjects could be gathered together and focused 
upon the management of the home. This need is being met through regular 
classroom courses supplementing laboratory work which is done in home 
management houses usually known as practice houses. 

For the successful management of a home one must not only know every 
phase of the job but must be able to correlate all of this knowledge so that the 
result is economically and socially efficient. In such a course we are able to 
check on the standards and efficiency of our students as in no other way, and 
what is still more important the student may check on her own ability. Our 
lecture work should give opportunity for the discussion of every activity carried 
on in the home management house. In the actual administration much 
depends upon the personality and experience of the person who supervises. 

A group of from si.x to eight gives a valuable experience. The work should 
be so divided that there is given the greatest opportunity for the development 
of leadership, cooperation, and management on the part of each member of 
the group. 

The family life should be as near normal as it is possible to have it. A few 
of our schools have introduced the problem of child care, and there seems to 
be no question in the minds of those schools having the courage to undertake 
such work that it is worth while from a number of standpoints. 

It seems tliat we can safely say that home management as a separate divi- 
sion of home economics work has a place, and that the practice house has come 
to stay. 



1922] HOME MANAGEMENT WORK IN EXTENSION FIELD 563 

AIMS OF HOME MANAGEMENT 

LUCY A. STUDLEY 
University of Minnesota 

Home management work at the University of Minnesota is organized 
primarily with three definite objectives in mind: first, to teach the management 
problems involved in homemaking; second, to organize the division of re- 
sponsibilities for the activities of the household in such a way that the students 
who are taking the laboratory work in the home management houses shall 
carry as much responsibility as possible, the resident instructor acting only as 
adviser; and third, to teach or reveal to the student the relation of those mana- 
gerial responsibilities to the development of a satisfactory home atmosphere. 

In order to fulfill these aims effort has been made to introduce into the 
courses as many management problems as possible, as, for example, the man- 
agement of children, and considering only incidentally those problems in- 
vohing manipulative skill alone. It is because of this point of view that the 
houses in which the laboratory' work of the course is conducted are called 
home management houses rather than practice houses or cottages, since the 
latter nomenclature does not seem to connote the real purpose of the course. 

HOME MANAGEMENT WORK IN THE EXTENSION FIELD 

M. MINERVA LAWRENCE 
Extension Home Management Specialist, State College of Washington 

The farm housewife has a right to e.xpect and demand comforts and con- 
veniences in her home similar to those surrounding her urban sister. Home 
management work, through the extension field, by means of demonstrations, is 
making it possible for the rural woman to obtain those helps which place her 
work on a par with the housewife in the city. 

The scope of the work covers the designing of the floor plan with a view to 
offering the greatest convenience and comfort to the housewife in performance 
of the regular routine of household duties; interior finishing, decorations, pur- 
chase of equipment and furniture to exactly fill the needs and pleasures of the 
entire family. Added to this list of activities is included every phase of the 
business side of the home. 

In order to develop the home management work most effectively, tlae dem- 
onstration method has been adopted, by which means the housewife herself 
tests the efficiency of time and labor savers and improved methods. Through 
individual tests and group tests, better known as " testing circles, " which were 
originated in the state of Washington, entire communities have become in- 
terested in the use of many of the labor savers. 

An important phase of the demonstration plan has been to instill into the 
rural housewife a desire to "pass on" the knowledge, benefits, and satisfaction 



564 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

which have come to her through the prKdlege of using improved devices. The 
use of these devices has made it possible to follow better methods with less 
expenditure of energy, thus allowing her more leisure. 

These may seem like small things in themselves, but they add enormously 
to the sum of daily life for the housewife, making all the difference between 
drudgery and a task in which one takes interest and pride. 

THE THRIFT KITCHEN AS AN ASSET IN CITY HOME 
BUREAU WORK 

EDITH M. BARBER 
Home Bureau Manager, Syracuse, N. Y. 

Thrift Kitchen! The name reminds us of those other days in war times 
when it was both patriotic and fashionable to speak respectfully of thrift. 
The Syracuse Thrift Kitchen is a veteran of the war but it has survived without 
disability. Established by the New York State Food Administration in 1918 
to care for the surplus vegetables and fruits and well equipped for that purpose, 
it was used to full capacity during the summer. The fall made other demands 
upon the force of trained workers, and the organization proved itself of such 
value in problems of individual and community housekeeping that when the 
close of the war put an end to the Food Administration an eiiort was made 
by the people of Syracuse to place the work upon a permanent basis. This 
was accomplished through the formation of a City Home Bureau, officially 
a branch of the County Farm and Home Bureau but organized as a separate 
project. Salaries and running expenses have been financed by various means 
through combined public and private funds procured by the efforts of the exec- 
utive committee of the organization. 

The Thrift Kitchen as it stands now is the headquarters of the Syracuse 
Home Bureau which acts as a clearing house for the home economics problems 
of the community, the institution, and the home. In summer it is still used 
to an enlarged capacity by women who bring their jars and materials there. 
In the winter all kinds of group work are undertaken; projects in millinery, 
dressmaking, nutrition, and household management are carried out. Every 
morning, afternoon, and evening finds some activity going on in the kitchen. 
During the present year a Woman's Exchange has been organized in connection 
with the work and the quarters have been enlarged. This is of use in giving 
women an outlet for homemade products and also in raising standards for 
hand made articles. 

Individuals, commercial firms, social organizations, and educational insti- 
tutions, by their constant use of the trained service furnished by the stafi of 
the Home Bureau from its headquarters, prove daily that there is a real place 
for a Thrift Kitchen in the community. 



1922] BROADCASTING THROUGH MAGAZINES 565. 

HOME ECONOMICS IN BUSINESS CONFERENCE 

BROADCASTING HOME ECONOMICS THROUGH 
THE MAGAZINES 

UAEJE SELLERS 
Home Economics Editor, Pictorial Review 

I had the pleasure not long ago of speaking from the W. J. Z. radio station 
at Newark, New Jersey and as I stood on the roof, underneath the sending 
wires, it was really a wonderful experience to realize that the human voice 
could be carried in this way into thousands of homes, and be heard as far 
west as California, as far south as Panama, and even two thousand miles 
at sea. I have often thought of it since, in connection with my work, and 
reaUzed that the magazines are really great big broadcasting stations taking 
a personal message each month into millions of homes. I like to think of them 
as extension workers going out to serve the great army of homemakers scat- 
tered throughout the country. Although these magazines cannot have the 
flesh and blood personality of a home economics teacher or home demonstra- 
tion agent, or carry the human voice as does the radio, at the same time each 
publication creates a personality of its own. It builds up a loyalty and 
confidence in families where it is a regular visitor which causes it to be looked 
upon as a real friend. 

Only one in the magazine business can appreciate the varied points of 
personal contact between the printed page and the American home. The 
letters that come piling into an office every month after a new issue is out are 
the best testimony to the fact that the service we try to render is a great big 
human thing. So you see how important it is for us to keep faith with our 
readers. And especially with the housekeepers who depend upon the house- 
hold departments for so much help and advice. As home economics women 
are going out more and more into the business world and are becoming identi- 
fied professionally with various enterprises that are outside the teaching field, 
the responsibility of our service to women increases accordingly. It is in the 
pages of the mgazine, perhaps, more than anywhere else, that the educational 
and business fields meet. One soon realizes here how important it is that 
the business side of the work must keep the faith just as sincerely as the educa- 
tional side. 

The women who are now entering this big new phase of home economics 
are stepping in to command those positions in which they have a right to make 
a large contribution. Whether it is manufacturing, banking, advertising, or 
some other line of work touching closely upon home problems, the opportuni- 
ties for trained women are far reaching. Take foods. Pick up any current 
woman's magazine, look at the food advertising, and compare it with that of 



.566 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

five or six years ago. Do you see a change coming about? Do you see the 
educational idea coming in more and more? Have you ever checked up as we 
do what manufacturers or advertising agencies employ women with home 
economics training? It gives one a very different feeling toward an organiza- 
tion to know that the facts being put out in advertising copy are supplied or 
carefully edited by one who knows. It is a great advantage to an editor 
seeking the latest information about a certain food to know that there is a 
trained woman connected with the firm that puts it out, who will cooperate 
in an honest educational way. 

In advertising you hear a lot about getting the "reader's point of view." 
It was a fortunate day for the American home when progressive manufacturers 
wakened up to the importance of employing experienced women to supply 
correct statements as well as the "point of view." Foods, furnishings, labor- 
saving equipment, clothing, good looks, and health are primarily women's 
problems for they all have their being in the home. The business world has 
only just begun to use the home economics woman. The future there for 
us is very great. 

THE EDUCATIONAL WORK OF BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS 

S. AGNES DONHAM 

Extensive educational work in home management is being done by many 
prominent manufacturers and wholesalers. Eleven types of educational work 
are being carried on by these firms: daily paper advertising, daily paper reading 
articles, magazine advertising, pamphlets, samples and circulars, demonstra- 
tion, lectures with or without demonstration, motion pictures, display and 
exhibits, bill boards, special reports of laboratory and research work. 

Where an industry is too small to be able to afford especial and expensive 
educational work by an expert, the national association of manufacturers of 
that paticular product frequently conducts the advertising on an educational 
basis. In the same way, when an industry is almost universal, as is the 
manufacture of electrical appliances, the national association takes charge 
of the educational work in order to have it uniform and evenly distributed. 

The subject matter of the advertisements is often the result of laboratory 
experiments made by some one trained in home economics; lecturers and 
demonstrators are frequently graduates of home economics colleges, or normal 
courses. When the material is not compiled by home economics experts the 
statements made are apparently based upon the results of experiments or 
tests made by trained workers. There is a definite purpose running through 
the whole series, that is, definite instruction as to use; clear, honest statements 
of results to be expected; and few claims made without supporting fact. 



1922] BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS m FOODS 567 

The departments of home management toward which most of this educa- 
tional work is directed by commercial firms seem to be as follows: the use of 
general utilities; cleansing, laundry, polishes; purchase and care of utensils; 
marketing, the points of choice, nutritive value, and comparative cost of 
various kinds of food. 

The purchasing agent of the family is educated in the wise choice of sup- 
plies by the manufacturer through reports of laboratory tests of fabrics and 
colors, lectures on home decoration, and description of methods used in manu- 
facturing mattresses, pillows, furniture, etc. 

Retail department stores dealing in general dry goods or ladies' furnishings 
employ shopping advisers. Mail order houses make a specialty of educational 
catalogs and personal advice by letter. 

In Boston one of the largest retail furnishing stores in the city maintains 
a clothing bureau which furnishes information regarding textiles, care of 
clothing, budgeting, suitability of materials and design, and style tendencies. 

In the same field, but in another way, banks are beginning to create de- 
partments for the benefit and training of home managers by establishing 
home economics or extension departments where the housewife or husband 
can come for assistance in solving household problems of finance. Such poli- 
cies consistently followed must result in sound educational work. 

Dealers no longer depend upon silver spoons or clock certificates to sell 
their merchandise, but seem to have entered upon a campaign of education 
which is destined to sell their goods much more successfully because their 
later satisfaction will depend upon intelligent use rather than careless handling. 

We may more and more expect to find a demand for women trained in 
home economics to work in home management through the laboratory or 
advertising departments of manufacturing firms. We must guard against 
over statement and against narrowness of outlook, developing our part of 
the work as broadly as possible, avoiding what was formerly called "commer- 
cialism," and creating, on a strong educational basis, good will for our respec- 
tive firms, while we assist the homemaker to be a better home manager. 

THE HOME ECONOMICS WORK OF BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS 
IN FOODS 

LOUISE FITZGERALD 

National Dairy Council 

The home economics worker is now recognized as necessary to a business 
organization in foods. She is doing a real service for her organization and the 
housewives of the country in placing the product in which she is interested on 
a high standard, selling it on merit alone, and whenever possible, showing the 
place of the food in a balanced diet. 



568 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

A number of organizations having to do with the manufacture or distribu- 
tion of foods make important contributions to the homes of the community 
by the preparation of exhibits, charts, motion pictures, literature, and demon- 
strations. These organizations offer a very interesting field to the research 
worker. Many industries, among them the milling and baking industry, the 
meat packing and canning industries, now maintain special research organiza- 
tions. With the findings of scientists concerning the importance of certain 
foods, it would seem that the time is near at hand when almost every large 
industry will maintain a research department. 

The field is new, the standards are high, and, with the invaluable assistance 
of those who are training women in home economics, we predict that many 
of the best trained home economics women will be attracted to business 
organizations. 



HOMEMAKERS' CONFERENCE 

THE HOME WITHIN AND WITHOUT 

MRS. JOSEPH C. GAWLER 

General Federation of Women's Chibs, Yakima, Washington 

Theories are the base of all new discoveries, but it is practice that gets the 
work done. Housekeeping is the most practical thing in the world. Home- 
making is housekeeping plus love and interest. Housework is a business that 
can be learned, just as the business of running a store, a mUl, or a factory. 
It requires executive ability, and some people have more of that than others. 
Some people are better housekeepers than others, and always wLU be; but 
most people could be better housekeepers than they are. 

The connection between heavy bread and the divorce court is not just a 
joke of the newspaper paragrapher. Diet plays a part in domestic harmony 
at which no true sociologist dares to scoff. It is said that we have turned the 
bringing up of our children over to the public schools; that we have entrusted 
the digestion of our families to the dehcatessen store; and there is truth enough 
in the criticism. 

The woman who utterly fails in the management of her home is personally 
at fault, unless she is handicapped by illness. Homemaking is now an acknowl- 
edged profession and demands preparation, and since the United States 
Government, imiversities, and colleges have come to recognize this, and have 
placed within the reach of every woman the results of their investigations, and 



1922] THE HOME WITHIN AND WITHOUT 569 

instructions covering all problems of the home, there is no excuse to be offered 
for continued inefficiency. 

There are several reasons why women do not at once see homemaking as 
a career. Perhaps the first reason is that generally speakkig, the home is 
unorganized and it is not recognized as a real business in which there are two 
partners. The woman should realize that the strain of the husband in earning 
the income should be met by similar earnestness on her part in the spending 
of it. We need analysis of the essential things that comprise the management 
of the home, including cooking, marketing, cleaning, budget making; the care 
of the children, recreation, and community interests. Perhaps the second 
reason is that our mental attitude is wrong. When higher education offered 
opportunities to women it was in fields that took them away from the home, 
and there was, and still is, a tendency to look upon work in the home as menial. 

The management of a home is a business proposition, the true basis of which 
lies in a knowledge of the economic principles that underlie the expenditure of 
the family income. After this there is no right course but the making of a 
budget and the keeping of accounts. A budget makes you think before you 
spend, not afterward; it enables you to spend wisely; it stops guesswork; 
it helps to stop wasteful spending; it prevents paying a biU twice; it elimi- 
nates worry; and it helps to live more cheaply and better. 

After the budget, the next consideration should be the food for the family. 
To get together a combination of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats that would 
give us just the right amount of nourishment, heat, and energy is the ever pres- 
ent problem in kitchen mathematics. In addition we must be sure we are 
serving the foods containing the essential vitamines. Government bulletins 
and publications by authorities in nutrition will aid us. This material is in 
non-technical language. If we aim to feed our famUies properly we must 
have the scientific spirit; we must know why this or that thing is better than 
another; and we must get our facts from acknowledged experts. 

The present problem of the world is that we may live more rationally. 
We are adopting a more wholesome mode of living. The growing tendency 
everywhere is toward simplicity in the housefumishings, in food, in dress; 
and this simplicity need not rob us of the beautiful in life, for the necessities 
may be artistic even though chosen for usefulness and not for show. We 
are eating less, and ser\dng simply. The modem kitchen simplifies work, 
too, with its sink and tables at proper height, and closets, range, and labor 
saving devices arranged to produce the maximum of work with the min- 
imum of energy. Laundry work is also simplified by the advent of the 
washing machine and the mangle. Some progress is being made toward sim- 
plicity in dress, and towards the standardization of wearing apparel and 
materials. And the time women are saving, the strength they are conserving 
is theirs for the enrichment of life; to do the thing which spells enjoyment, which 
supplements the workaday hours. Owners of big industrial plants have come 



570 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

to know that recreation is an essential to good work. Owners of little indus- 
trial plants like homes must recognize the fact also. To some the recreation 
comes in one way; to others differently. It is our reaction to our idle hours 
which distinguishes personality. 

The modem homemaker has civic duties; she must needs be a city maker 
too. This is partly because of the obligation imposed upon her by the ballot 
and partly because she cannot keep her children in the home indefinitely, 
or even for a very long time; that is, not exclusively in the home. And she 
must see that there is a city for them to go out into which shall not offer too 
great a menace to health or character. This means control of water, proper 
disposal of sewage, attention to food, especially milk, proper regulation of 
public morals, and an understanding of social legislation, both local and 
federal. 

Here is where women's clubs come in. A woman single-handed would never 
think of starting out to tell city commissioners or police chiefs or health officers 
what they should do, but a woman, as part of an organization made up of other 
women similarly minded for the public good, not only dares but accomplishes 
what she set out to do. This influence of club women is recognized in a civic 
way by their appointment to committees and community enterprises, and by 
the enlistment of their cooperation in any great movement for the public good. 

YOUR CHILD AND MINE 

MES. J. F. HILL 

Stale President, Parent Teachers Association, Portland, Oregon 

I am coming before you today representing the best combination on earth: 
the parent-teacher combination, the two important factors in the training of 
the child. Our aim is not merely to furnish a more perfect generation physi- 
cally, but we want these children to face life with higher purposes and ideals, 
with an ambition to be of service to the world. We believe in the profession 
of motherhood but, since God intended every child to have two parents, we 
believe also in the profession of fatherhood, and we believe that homemaking 
will never reach its highest perfection until both father and mother qualify 
for entrance. We are grateful to know that the best schools and colleges 
today are including a course in homemaking. It is inspiring to know that 
30,000 have had this training and 10,000 are now making homes. But when 
we train our daughters to run a home on a business basis, we must train our 
sons to be willing to recognize their ability and give them a fair chance to be 
dignified in their profession. Then will they be satisfied with careers as home- 
makers. 

We know that the American man is the best family man in the world but 
it lies within his power to bring a newer and better order to the American home. 



1922] • YOUR CHILD AND MINE 571 

He might make a good beginning by providing the home with some of these 
modem time savers so that the mother may conserve her strength and have 
more time to be a companion to her family and friendly with the outside world. 
It is in the rural districts that you find the greatest need for these time savers. 
The farmer has provided himseU' with modern machinerj^ but not yet has he 
fully appreciated the needs in the home. The mother still uses grandmother's 
equipment. A part of the income must be directed towards the improvement 
of the home as a means of contentment, raising the standards of the home life, 
bringing beauty and culture. Much money has been appropriated by the 
government for the improvement of live stock, and live stock will always be 
less important to the nation than children. Your child and mine will stand 
a much fairer chance to "grow in stature and wisdom" when he is bom in a 
home which has been founded upon love and intelligence by two people 
trained for parenthood. 

What has become of the "old home" and the old fashioned family circle? 
They ha\'e been relegated to the scrap heap. It is hopelessly out of date for 
the family to gather round the reading lamp. The home is no longer a place 
where father and mother and child may dwell together and find happiness. 

I am glad that through home economics we are getting a different viewpoint 
of home. The world is recognizing more and more, because of you and 
cooperating agencies, the value of cleanliness, good food, right clothing, the 
element of beauty, that good health is basic and determines largely the child's 
mental and moral development. But there are still many children who are 
not getting these things. You cannot get the parents into your schools but 
through such organizations as ours you can take your schools to them. 

We need you, you need us; and these homes need us both. You are doing 
a great work but there is much yet to be done before aU children have this 
life more abundantly. 

Then, too, children must be taught respect and reverence. They must not 
mistake freedom for license. Never was there a greater need for a strong 
religious faith than now, and we carmot afford to crowd God out of our homes 
if we want them to be real homes. 



572 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

SCIENCE CONFERENCE 

STANDARDS IN HOME ECONOMICS RESEARCH 

MINNA C. DENTON 

The successful research worker is the one who has come nearest to finding 
all the variable factors which affect the solution of her problem, who has es- 
tablished a standard test procedure with a definite end point, who has repeated 
her tests until results are predictable, who has reported her experiments so 
carefully that it is possible for the reader to repeat them, who has carefully- 
limited her generalization, who has been able to suggest a hypothesis which 
accounts fully for the observed facts, and perhaps even to present more or less 
complete experimental proof of this hypothesis. 

The student of the efi'ect of beating cake batter must recognize and allow for 
60 to 75 varying factors which affect cake texture, or more than that; she must 
standardize the process of cake making with regard to all these factors; she must 
devise some method of measuring cake texture as accurately as its volume is 
measured; she must report her experiments for others to verify; she must not 
apply her results to cakes in general, but only to the variety of cake and to the 
particular combination of conditions with which she has experimented; and 
lastly, she should, if possible, identify the phenomena observed in cake batters 
with the laws which govern colloid behavior in general. 

LINES OF RESEARCH IN HOME ECONOMICS 

ELIZABETH MILLER 

Iowa Slate College 

Within the past few years, the application of research to home economics 
has been given an impetus similar to that which agriculture experienced a 
half-century ago. Just as research in agriculture, by reducing the cost of 
production, by providing better distribution of farm products, and better 
methods of marketing, has become a matter of national concern, so should 
research in home economics contribute to the efficiency and success of the 
entire nation by producing more useful and happier citizens. 

The importance of greater knowledge concerning the nutrition require- 
ments to our physical well-being has been dramatically demonstrated by animal 
feeding experiences. The way is open for the home economics research worker 
to aid, not only in obtaining further information concerning what constitutes • 
a complete diet, but also in making the applications to human feeding of the 
results of animal experimentation. 

Since the women as homemakers are said to make 90 per cent of the pur- 
chases in the coimtry, it seems logical that they should have some specialized 
training for their job as consumers. 



1922] RESEARCH IN THE tJNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 573 

The unique accomplishments to be expected of graduate work in home 
economics will be research in the affairs in the home, in the administrative 
aspects of homemaking, in training for motherhood, in analysis of the basic 
household activities. Needless to say, those who are to direct research 
along so great a variety of lines must have a very thorough and comprehensive 
training, not only in chemistr>', physics, biology, but also in economics, 
sociology, psychology, and history. 

ENERGY EXPENDITURE FOR HOUSEHOLD TASKS 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Chief, Office of Home Economics, United Stales Department of Agriculture 

Continuing earlier work (Energy expenditure in sewing, C. F. Langworthy 
and H. G. Barott, Amer. Jour. Physiol. 59, 1922, No. 1, pp. 376-380), respira- 
tion calorimeter experiments were made with a young woman as subject, 5 
feet, 6 inches tall, and weighing on an average 134 pounds. Comparison was 
made of machine sewing, foot operated; machine sewing, electric motor 
operated; hand sewing at different rates; dishwashing with a working surface 
at different heights from the ground; ironing; and sweeping. 

In general, the results were in accord with those obtained in previous work. 
Expressed in terms of heat, the energy expended for the work alone in sewing 
on the foot-operated machine was 20.9 calories per hour; motor operated 
sewing machine, 8.9 calories per hour; hand stitching, 9.4 calories per hour 
in a test on sheets, at the rate of 30 stitches per minute; and 5.6 calories per 
hour at the rate of 18 stitches per minute. In ironing, the energy expended 
for the work alone was 24.0 calories per hour, and in sweeping, 41.0 calories 
per hour; with dishwashing the energy expended with too low a working sur- 
face (75 centimeters), was 32.3 calories per hour; with a working surface at the 
height of 92 centimeters, 24.9 calories per hour; with the working surface at a 
height of 107 centimeters, 22.6 calories per hour; and with the working surface 
at a height of 117 centimeters, 22.9 calories per hour. 



Editor's Note: Besides the papers listed on the program, the following brief reports of 
research work being carried on in home economics departments of different colleges and 
universities were presented. 

RESEARCH IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

KATHARINE BLUNT 

Nutrition, Food Chemistry, mid Experimental Cooking. Three studies by 
Assistant Professor Lydia J. Roberts on the nutrition of children will be 



574 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

published shortly. A nutrition survey in a rural region in Kentucky, and 
a study of the diets of the pre-school children in Gar>', Indiana, which are 
to appear as bulletins of the U. S. Children's Bureau, are now in press. A 
report of the Child Health School held at the University of Chicago in the 
summer of 1920 has been accepted by the U. S. Bureau of Education as one 
of their series of health education bulletins. 

Hughina McKay, A.M. 1922, for her master's thesis, made a nutrition and 
health study of the elementary school of the University of Chicago. The 
sur\'ey included weighing and measuring, diet and health questionnaires, a 
study of the school lunch, and of the medical records. 

Assistant Professor E. G. Halliday has worked up a satisfactory and simple 
method for the quantitative determination of pectin in fruit juices; and with 
several of her students, especially Helen Burton, M.S. 1922, and Ruth Jordan, 
is attacking the jelly problem by calculating the concentration of jellies 
made both from fruit juices of known pectin, acid, and sugar content, and also 
from pure isolated pectin, acid, and sugar dissolved in water without boiling 
to concentrate. So far she has not obtained jelly with less than 0.5 per cent 
pectin. 

Virginia Bauer is making comparative tests on children before breakfast 
and later on the same day, three and a half to four hours after their usual 
breakfast. So far, five children observed on nine days, have shown an average 
basal metabolic rate only 0.4 per cent higher just before lunch than before 
breakfast. The routine observations of basal metabolism of the children of 
the University Elementary School are being continued. So also are further 
observations on college women. 

Kate Daum, for her doctor's thesis, is investigating some of the changes 
brought about in milk by different, carefully controlled methods of heating. 
She finds that the changes in citric acid, hydrogen ion concentration, and 
carbon dioxide are not especially significant, but that the amounts of calcium 
and phosphorus precipitated vary not only with the length of time the milk 
is heated, but even more with the length of time it stands and settles after 
heating before the analysis is made. For example, when the milk is heated 
for 30 minutes in the equivalent of a double boiler and analyzed immediately, 
the loss in calcium averages 10 per cent of the original quantity and in phos- 
phorus 9.8 per cent; and when boiled for three minutes the calcium loss is 
4.5 per cent and the phosphorus 7 per cent. After 24 hours, however, the 
calcium losses are 22 per cent by either method and the phosphorus losses 
about 17 percent. 

Home and Institution Management. Mrs. Heiner, instructor in home 
economics, is cooperating with the Illinois Home Economics Association in 
its survey of household activities, and with some of her students is tabulating 
and classifying the results of the study. 



1922] QUALITY OF WHITE SAUCE 575 

Katharine McFariane for her master's thesis is studying the curricula of 
the various universities and colleges which train for institution management, 
to learn the degree of standardization and the scope and content of the courses. 

Home Economics Education. Assistant Professor Mabel B. Trilling is work- 
ing on textile objectives in elementary and secondary schools. 

Leona F. Bowman, instructor in home economics, has collected in- 
formation on the organization of home economics courses in 197 schools in 
typical cities of 20,000 or more in 43 states. Among other points she finds 
that in 82 per cent of the schools home economics is an elective, not a required 
course; and that the average amount of time required for 1 unit of credit for 
graduation is eight 40-minute periods weekly for 36 weeks. 

Florence Williams, A.M. 1922, has attempted to set standards of attain- 
ment for ability in machine sewing from the sixth to the twelfth grade, inclu- 
sive. The standards are determined on the Knapp and Williams scale for 
judging machine sewing, and were secured by taking the average scores from 
some 3500 samples, secured in numerous schools. The results of the investiga- 
tion should prove helpful to the classroom teacher in determining whether the 
work of her class is up to standard or not. 

Olga Hoesly, A.M. 1922, has made a study of the required and elective courses 
in home economics in normal schools. The results give the total number of 
college hours, hours of related work and hours of education required for 
graduates in the two and four year courses. 

Regina Friant is investigating the status of vocational home economics in 
secondary schools, making an analysis of courses of study and of state plans 
for certification of teachers. The results obtained will be compared with those 
in general home economics. 

FACTORS DETERMINING THE QUALITY OF WHITE SAUCE IN 
LARGE QUANTITY COOKING 

MARY LOUISE MEUSER 
Kansas Agricultural College 

Mi.xing hot fat and flour together before adding to the milk was shown to 
be a better method of mixing white sauce than was mixing cold fat and flour, 
or cold milk and flour. Cooking in the steam-jacketed kettle gave better 
results than in the double boiler. When multiplying the recipes for half- 
pint quantity by 16, so as to make 1 gallon, it was found necessary to cut the 
amount of fat used by 33^ to 50 per cent. Equal weights of fat and flour seemed 
to give the best results, in this quantity. The sauce was found to become thinner 
as it continued to cook. Salt, when added before cooking, caused thinning and 
curdling; it should be added at the end of cooking. 



576 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

STUDIES ON JELLY AND BUTTER CAKE 

JESSIE WHITACEE 

Utah Agrimltural College 

Jelly Yield, and Sugar Crystal Formation in Certain Apple Jellies. The 
apples were cooked in various ways, but all yielded about 1.8 pints of juice 
per pound of apples; except those cooked in pressure cooker for 10 minutes at 
10 pounds, which yielded 2.5 pints of juice per pound. 

A. 1 pint of juice cooked with \ pint of sugar, yielded 5 oz. jeUy. 

B. 1 pint of juice cooked with § pint of sugar, yielded 8 oz. jelly. 

C. 1 pint of juice cooked with | pint of sugar, yielded 10 oz. jelly. 
As to quality, jelly B was considered preferable. 

Large sugar crystals formed occasionally on the walls of the tumbler, under 
the paraffin layer, or even in the center of the jelly mass. Whether this was 
due to low concentration of colloids other than pectin, or to lack of acid and 
subsequent failure to invert a sufficient amount of sucrose, remains for us to 
determine. 

Optimum Proportions of Various Ingredients for Making Butler Cake, at an 
Altitude of 4^00 Feet. The formula chosen called for | cup butter, 1 cup of 
sugar, 2 eggs, 5 cup milk. If cups of flour, j teaspoon salt, 2| teaspoons baking 
powder; and though perfectly satisfactory at sea level, it "feU" and showed 
coarse grain, speckled crust, and a waxy, sticky texture, when made up by 
weight in the same proportions under controlled conditions, at Logan. A 
decrease in sugar of 70 grams (5 tablespoons, or approximately 33 per cent) 
and in flour of 14 grams (2 tablespoons or about 7 per cent), together with 
addition of 28 grams of butter (2 tablespoons, or more than 33 per cent), 
improved the cake considerably. Further work is in progress. 

VARIATIONS IN VOLUME OF HOUSEHOLD MEASURING 
CUPS 

JEAN STEWAKT 

University of Nebraska 

Seventy-five names of manufacturers of these cups (glass, tin, aluminum, 
enamelware) have been secured. Rough tests show variations of 15 per cent, 
both above and below the standard. As soon as our collection is complete, 
or as nearly complete as we can make it, all are to be subjected to careful 
tests for variations in volume of cup and of the fractions marked on the walls. 
These tests are to be made by the Weights and Measures Division of the U. S. 
Bureau of Standards, and a reasonable tolerance limit is to be set. It is believed 
that a fuU report may be ready early in the autumn. 



1922] FAT USED IN DEEP FAT FRYING 577 

STUDIES OF CARBOH\T)RATE TOLERANCE OF NORMAL 
WOMEN 

EMILA. L. WAEDELL 

University of Illinois 

The earlier literature contains the records of a number of more or less 
definite obser\'ations on the carbohydrate tolerance of normal women and also 
of a much smaller number showing the effect of the menstrual cycle on carbo- 
hydrate tolerance. Unfortunately the results obtained in different investiga- 
tions are far from uniform; some indicate that glucose tolerance is not affected 
by the menstrual period, others indicate an increase in tolerance and still 
others a decrease. This very lack of uniformity suggests, however, that it 
would be interesting to learn definitely whether or not the menstrual period 
affects the carbohydrate tolerance of normal women and then to learn whether 
the change, if there be one, is an increase or a decrease in tolerance. 

Throughout our experiments we have used the quantitative estimation or 
urinary elimination of sugar after ingestion of glucose as the means of estimat- 
ing the glucose tolerance of our subjects. 

Our first investigations were made with the Benedict Osterberg method 
of estimating urinary sugar, but the preliminary precipitation with mercuric 
nitrate was rather slow and laborious and our work has been greatly facilitated 
by the use of the new Benedict method published about a year ago. 

At present we are not quite ready to make a detailed statement of results; 
such a report must be resen,-ed for a later communication. 

A STUDY OF FAT USED IN DEEP FAT FRYING 

TEACHERS COLLEGE, DEPARTMENTS OF FOODS AND COOKERY, BIOLOGICAL 
CHEMISTRY, AND HOUSEHOLD CHEMISTRY, COOPERATING 

The object of the investigation was threefold: 

1. To determine the number of times a fat can be used effectively for deep 
fat frying. 

2. To determine whether there is an increase in fat absorption by food in 
proportion to the number of times a frying medium has been used. 

3. To determine the chemical and physical changes which take place in fat 
as it is used for deep fat frying. 

Doughnuts were the food fried. Lard and mazola were the fats used. 
Twenty fryings were made with mazola and nineteen with lard, there being 
insufficient lard remaining for the twentieth frying. 

The Cookery Process. Initial weight of fat for frying — 15 lbs. 5 oz. Kettles 
identical in shape and size were used for the two fats. The period of fryings 
extended over ten weeks. The fat was strained after each frying. 



578 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Temperature of fat for frying was 370°F. The cold dough caused the 
temperature to fall toward 360. 

Weight of dough fried each time was 473 gms., 20 doughnuts of the same 
size and shape, from the first rolling. Temperature of uncooked dough was 
56°F. Number of doughnuts fried at one time — 4. These were dropped in by 
twos, ten seconds apart, fried one minute without turning, then turned and 
fried one minute more. 

Efed upon Doughnuts. The doughnuts were judged by use of a score 
card, I hour after each frying. There was a noticeable drop in quality after 
the eleventh frying with both series of doughnuts. The doughnuts became 
more greasy and very rough on the surface. 

Fat Absorption. No tests were made for fat absorbed by the doughnuts 
fried with mazola. 

Three series of twenty fryings each have been carried through with the lard, 
and the doughnuts were tested for fat absorption each time. The amount of 
fat absorbed varies, rising and falling at irregular intervals throughout the 
series. 

Changes in Fat. The data now accumulated on the life of a frying fat, 
include accurate chemical determination of saponification, acid, Reichert 
Meissl and iodine numbers, as well as quality changes in the fried material, 
upon both lard and mazola after each frying with a standardized batch of 
doughnuts through the twentieth frying. The results confirm the previous 
preliminary observations that the principal change is an oxidation and that 
this splitting occurs to a degree at the double bond. The rise of the acid 
number is, however, too great as compared with the drop in iodine number 
to warrant the idea that oxidation is the sole case of rancidity, and hydrolysis 
probably takes place to a considerable extent. The mazola proved to be 
much less changed in the process than the lard, resisting the heating process 
well. From the practical viewpoint we are aiming at an exact evaluation of 
the chemical factors which produce rancidity in frying fat with a view to 
studying and publishing the best methods of conserving and purifying to 
be used by the housewife. Results will be published in detail in the Journal. 

OUTLINE OF RESEARCH 

In addition to the work on fats reported above, the departments of Biologi- 
cal Chemistry and Foods and Cookery report the following: 

Work on the Efed of Cooking upon the Antiscorbutic Vitamin hi Cabbage. 
Evidence seems conclusive that when cabbage is cooked in the open kettle at 
a temperature and time necessary to produce a palatable article for the table 
the destruction is sufficiently great to make it necessary to use at least 20 grams 
of cooked cabbage to secure the vitamin equivalent of 1 gram of raw cabbage. 



1922] INTERNAL TEMPERATtTRES OF FOODS DURING COOKING 579 

From experiments with infants and guinea pigs on comparative dosage it would 
seem that the former require about 5 times the protective dose of the latter 
and the adult's requirement is probably not greatly if any in excess of the in- 
fant. On this basis 5 grams or | ounce of raw cabbage would protect a 
man as would 100 grams of cooked cabbage or 3^ ounces. The pressure cooker, 
while using a higher temperature, produces a cooked cabbage of equal quality 
in much shorter time (20 minutes vs 45 minutes) and this shorter duration is 
apparently sufficient to offset the higher temperatures. In our experiments 
the pressure cooked cabbage suffered no more and no less destruction of its 
vitamin than did the open kettle cooked cabbage. 

Peanut Flour as Protein Supplcmeyit to Wheat Flour. With the assistance 
of Rena S. Eckman, of the University Hospital of the University of Michigan, 
the peanut flour studies have demonstrated that when wheat flour is supple- 
mented by peanut flour and by meat residue as sources of protein and in equal 
protein equivalent, the peanut flour supplies all the protein necessary for 
growth and reproduction quite as well as the meat residue. Rats have now 
been carried to the third generation on the diets. 

INTERNAL TEMPERATURES OF FOODS DURING COOKING 

MINNA C. DENTON 

With the exception of meats, eggs, and custards, most foods cooked under 
ordinary household conditions reach a temperature of approximately 100° 
(boiling point) throughout their mass by the time they are "done," whether 
cooked in boiling water, in an oven, or in hot fat at 200°C., more or less. How- 
ever, it may readily be shown that the temperature attained within a given 
time period is altogether dependent upon the size of the food mass. Small 
pieces of meat reach 100°C. within a short time, though they may not be 
"done" immediately upon reaching this temperature; while joints weighing 
several pounds may be perfectly done at 60° to 80°C. Boiled potatoes weigh- 
ing 200 grams or less, are done at 97° to 99°C., those weighing 300 grams or 
more, are done at 90° to 95°C. 

It may also be shown that increase of time of cooking will often make 
unusually low temperatures equally effective with higher ones; e.g., the initial 
coagulation temperature of a milk-and-egg custard, constantly stirred during 
cooking, may be anywhere between 75° and 95°C., varying with the rapidity 
of heating; no doubt wider variations could be attained. 

The object of such tests is the general interest in the effect of cooking on 
vitamins and on food poisoning bacteria and their toxins. A study of pump- 
kin pie to determine the temperature of pie when cooking, in order to see if 
pumpkin could cause poisoning, shows that the interior does not reach the 
boUing point. 



580 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

NUTRITION EXPERIMENTS 

MARTHA KOEHNE 
University of Washington 

Animal Feeding Experiments. The main object of this work is to provide 
illustrative material for class teaching and extension work. The selection of 
type of research problem must be of such a nature as to provide this material 
in greatest amount. The problem underway now is comparative effect of 
quality of food and chewing on tooth decay. The food in no case requires 
chewing, but, with each tj'pe of diet used, one series is provided with sticks of 
wood and wooden shavings to chew on, the other series is kept in glass cages 
with tissue paper shavings for bedding. 

Six tj'pical diets are used, each of which is representative of food combina- 
tions actually used in many American homes. Work has not progressed far 
enough for report of conclusions. Reproduction, growth, mortality records 
are kept on aU animals used, and the bones of aU that die are kept. 

Food Intake in a Summer Camp for Undernotirished Children. This work 
involved keeping an accurate record of food consumption of the 30 individual 
children, as well as the proportion of this food that was derived from dairy 
products. One camp consisted of 20 children kept for 5 weeks, and 14 children 
for 5 weeks, 4 of the latter 14 being hold-overs from the first group. The com- 
plete report is to be published in the Archives of Pediatrics. 

THE RELATIVE COST OF GAS AND ELECTRICITY FOR COOKING 
PURPOSES 

MARTHA E. DRESSLAR 
University of Washington 

In those parts of the country where electricity is sufficiently inexpensive 
to be used as fuel for cooking purposes, a question frequently asked is, "Which 
is the more expensive, gas or electricity?" 

At the University of Washington we have made an effort to answer this 
question under given conditions. Menus for a family of five were used as the 
basis for the selection of dishes to be prepared. The menus were planned to 
take into consideration the requirements of the well balanced meal, and use of 
left overs, the effective use of the particular stove, and the inclusion of a suffi- 
cient number of plate and oven operations to show the total fuel consumption 
representative of the fuel consumption of the user of gas or electricity for cook- 
ing purposes. Results obtained by this experiment require too much qualifica- 
tion to be presented in this abstract, but wiU appear in an early number of the 
Journal. 



1922] COUNCIL MEETINGS 581 

COUNCIL MEETINGS 

The Council met August 1, 3, and 4 with the following members present at 
one or more sessions: 

Mary E. Sweeny, presiding; Kate Bear, Isabel Bevier, Alice F. Blood, 
Gladys F. Branegan, Mary de Garmo Brj'an, Myrtle Cole, Lenna F. Cooper, 
Grace G. Denny, Ruth Dickey, Cleora Helbing, Katherine Jensen, Frances 
KeUey, Alice Kewley, C. F. Langworthy, Blanche Lee, Helen Livingstone, 
Rena Maycock, Ava B. Milam, Maude Murchie, Effie Raitt, Anna Richard- 
son, Margaret Sawyer, Jenny Snow, N. E. Stafford, Frances Swain, Jessie 
Whitacre, Marion White. 

After the address of the president the following business was transacted: 

COilMITTEE REPORTS 

Regional Organization. Report read by Miss Branegan in the absence 
of Miss Weigley, Chairman. 

The Regional Organization Committee presents a report on the status of affiliation of 
the states with the American Home Economics Association up to July 15, 1922.* 

The following states have completed affiliation with the American Home Economics 
Association: Arizona, .Arkansas, California, District of Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, 
Louisiana, Mar>'land, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Me.xico, New York, 
North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, South Dakota, 
Termessee, Utah, Washington. 

The following states are reported as voting affiliation but have not yet completed affilia- 
tion formalities: Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, New England (6 states), Texas. 

The following states are making inquiries which indicate that the matter is being 
considered: Delaware, Idaho, Iowa, Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, Permsylvania, Virginia, 
W. Virginia, Wisconsin, Canada. 

States from which no information is available: Colorado, Nevada, New Jersey, Wyoming. 
Afiiliated states according to regions showing total membership from states. 

Region Membership Region Memhership 

Eastern Pacific 523 

New York 185 Arizona 46 

California 223 



Central 787 



New Mexico 11 



Illinois... v. ■..;.:;.; 298 p^^f" ^ 

„ . , -. Utah 78 

Kentucky 20 „, , . 

Michigan 189 Washington 101 

Minnesota 55 ^^^^j^ 473 

01^° 219 Arkansas 64 

D. C 59 

West Central 144 Florida 22 

Montana 45 Maryland 90 

Nebraska 32 Louisiana 101 

N.Dakota 37 N. CaroUna 46 

Oklahoma 14 S. Carolina 32 

S. Dakota 16 Termessee 64 

Total membership through affiliated Associations 2117. 

* Corrected to August 1, 1922. 



582 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

It will be seen from this report that 25 out of 49 states, including the District of Columbia, 
have completed affiliation and that of the remaining 24, 10 have voted affiliation, leaving 
only 14 states and Canada which have taken no definite steps other than inquiries. Of 
these, Canada and 10 others have started inquiries, leaving only 4 states in which no efforts, 
apparent to the Committee, are taking place. 

One action of considerable importance which the Committee would like to report is that 
of the Southern Home Economics Association which, at its meeting in Florida, April 10, 
1922, voted unanimously to become the Southern Region of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

With the number of states now organized and with as many affiliations pending as there 
are, the Committee believes that another six months will see all but a few states ready to put 
through a program of home economics. 

Report accepted. 

For changes and recommendations concerning regional organization see 
Executive Committee recommendations 2-7, and 13, pp. 587 and 588. 

Journal Board. For report see business meeting p. 589. 

The Council voted to grant Mrs. Norton her requested leave of absence. 
See Executive Committee recommendation 12, p. 588. 

The Council went on record as favoring a full time editor for the, Journal 
if after a study by the Finance Committee it was found possible. 

The subscription and financial status was reported by Mrs. Bryan, Editor, 
as follows: 

The report for the first part of the year was given at the Chicago meeting and was printed 
in the June Journal. Since that report, 1034 letters have been sent to members of the 
Association who are not subscribers; 367 to members of the American Dietetic Association; 
600 to schools in regard to student subscriptions. The net increase in subscriptions June 
1921-June 1922 is 1123 (567 student and 556 regular). 

The deficit in JocRNALoperadons January- June, 1922 was$816.21, or $507.54 less than for 
the same period last year. 

The advertising January-June 1922 was $2168.01, or $449.52 more than for the same 
period last year. 

Report accepted. 

Standards of Home Economics in Colleges. Report read by Miss 
Richardson in the absence of Miss Atwater, Chairman. 

In accordance with the recommendations made at the meeting of the Council in Chicago, 
Miss Atwater took up with Dr. Samuel P. Capen, Director of the American Council on 
Education, the question of the standardization of Home Economics in colleges, and asked for 
the help of the American Council on Education in formulating standards necessary for the 
inclusion of technical and professional schools in the approved list of educational institutions. 
Dr. Capen felt that the Committee would be glad to undertake such a definition and has 
promised to present the matter to the Committee on College Standards at its meeting on 
October 13th and 14th. It seems necessary to await a further report from Dr. Capen. 

Report accepted. 

Finance. Report read by Miss Donham in the absence of Miss MacLeod, 
Chairman. 



1922] COUNCIL MEETINGS 583 

TRIAL BALANXE, JUNE 30, 1922 

Debits 
Association 

Salaries— officers $250 .00 

Salaries— clerical 271 .99 

Printing and stationery 83 05 

Postage 44.41 

Affiliation dues 5 .00 

Office 106.50 

Meetings 11.00 

Bulletin 283.61 

Rent 24 .00 

Telephone and telegraph 5.60 $1,085.16 

Journal 

Salaries— officers $1,349.99 

Salaries— clerical 688.00 

Printing and stationery 63. 37 

Discounts to dealers 150.24 

Distribution 6, 260.30 

Travel 170.00 

Telephone and telegraph 24 .03 

Office 68 . 78 

Postage 153 . 63 

Rent 96.00 9,024.34 



$18,370.82 



Equipment 505 .82 

Richards IMemorial Fund 4, 070 .56 

Cash— Balto. Trust Co $3,003.42 

Cash— Balto. Trust Co. Sav. a/c 669 .91 

Cash— Miss Baldwin 11.61 3,684.94 

Credits 
Association 

Publications $18.92 

Dues 2, 201 .25 

Advertising 75.00 $2, 295.17 

Journal 

Subscription S5, 752.15 

Numbers 143 .26 

Reprints 139.40 

Advertising 2, 168.01 

Postage 5.29 8,208.11 

Excess payment 8 .25 

Executive Secretary Fund 1, 159.70 

Institution Section 110.59 

Life Membership 255 .00 

Richards Memorial Fund $4,305,87 

Richards Memorial Fund, Misc 584 . 74 4, 890 . 61 

Surplus 1,442.28 

Exchange 1.11 818,370.82 



584 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS, JANUARY 1 TO JUNE 30, 1922 

Association 
Receipts 

Publications S18.92 

Dues 2,201.25 

Advertising 75.00 $2, 295 . 17 

Expenditures 

Salaries— officers $250.00 

Salaries— clerical 271 .99 

Printing and Stationery 83 .05 

Affiliation Dues 5 .00 

Postage 44.41 

Office 106.50 

Meetings 11.00 

Bulletin 283 ,61 

Rent 24.00 

Telephone and telegraph 5.60 1,085.16 

Profit $1, 210 .01 

Jourrml 
Receipts 

Subscription $5, 752 . 15 

Numbers 143 .26 

Reprints 139.40 

Advertising 2, 168.01 

Postage 5.29 $8,208.11 

Expenditures 

Salaries— officers $1, 349 .99 

Salaries — clerical 688 .00 

Printing and stationery 63 . 37 

Discounts to dealers 150.24 

Distribution 6, 260.30 

Traveling 170.00 

Telephone and telegraph 24 .03 

Office 68.78 

Postage 153 .63 

Rent 96.00 9,024.34 

Loss SS16.21 

Net Profit 393 .80 

The June 30th, 1922, trial balance shows a surplus of $1,210.01 for the Association. The 
1921 deficit of $819.89 has been wiped out. The Association budget was based on dues 
of 53,000.00 and on June 30th $2,201.25 had been received from that source. 

The JontN'AL, however, shows a deficit of SSI 6.21. The Joitrnal budget calls for an 
income of $16,150.00 from subscriptions and at the present time only 85,752.15 has been 
received. The latter half of the year always brings in more subscriptions than the first 
half and it is hoped that during the ne.xt five months the number of subscriptions will be at 
least double the number of the last seven months. 

Larger membership in the Association, more Journal subscribers, and, last but not least, 
prompt pa>Tnent of dues and subscriptions, are the three things which will help the finances 
of the Association and Journal. 



1922] COUNCIL MEETINGS 585 

Report accepted. 

For discussion of budget see Executive Committee recommendation 11, 
p. 5S8, and recommendation 1 of Committee on Committees, p. 586. 

Voted that the Association pay the expenses of the president to the annual 
meeting and that this be made a precedent for other annual meetings. 

\'oted that the treasurer be authorized to turn over 8300.00 for expenses 
of speakers to the meeting. 

Program of Work. The following recommendations were presented by 
Miss Swain, Chairman: 

I. It is assumed that the work of various committees engaged in research, legislation, and 
other specific activities shall be continued throughout the year. 

n. It is assumed also that the program of state and regional organization shall be con- 
tinued with the hope that by the time of the next annual meeting all states will have completed 
aflnliation. The state organizations must also recognize their responsibility in drawing into 
their organization the various groups that represent the work in the community, such as 
homemakers, teachers, extension worken,, Institutional workers, and business women. 
Each group should have an opportunity for expression in the plans and meetings; if the groups 
are large, sections may be desirable. 

III. It is recommended that each state organization undertake a sur\'ey of the state to 
delermJiie the organizations and agencies whose actixTties touch those of the American Home 
Economics Association and to study methods of cooperation, points of contact, and specific 
lines along which the state orgaiiiiation is to set to %vork. .\ report of this survey shall be 
presented at the next annual meeting. 

I\'. Xot the least important portion of the program of work facing the Association is the 
establishment and recognition of standards of professional preparation, qualifications, salaries, 
tj-pes and conditions of work, and equipment. Each state organisation is urged to determine 
what standards are desirable, and at present advisable in the various fields of home economics 
work in that state, including teachers and superi-isors, extension workers, dietitians, nutrition 
workers, and experts in business and industry. 

V. Suggestions for local work: 

1. Inasmuch as most school and health groups are agreed that health instruction must be 
given to all pupils in the school system and that nutrition is a vital subject in this education, 
it follows that the home economics teacher, on account of her unique training, is the logical 
person to assume the responsibility for the nutrition subject matter included. In view of 
these facts, the following suggestions are made: 

(a) That the home economics teacher share the responsibility for a health program for 
the entire school in cooperation with the specialists in allied subjects, such as the school 
ph>-sician, dentist, physical training teacher, and nurse. 

(b) That the home economics teachers give a definite course of instruction in nutrition 
to the grade teachers who will in turn be responsible for incorporating it in their regular school 
curriculum. 

(c) That the home economics teachers reach the parents of the community through 
such groups as the Parent-Teacher Association, Mothers' Council, and clubs. 

(d) To further this unified program, courses in nutrition should be offered by the depart- 
ments of home economics of normal schools and universities to elementarj' teachers, physical 
training teachers, nurses, and home visitors, and special courses to home economics teachers 
in order to equip them to assume this new responsibility. It is desirable that these courses 
be accompanied by work with classes of children. 



586 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

(e) That the National Association consider the possibility of standardizing the nutrition 
subject matter to be included in the health instruction in the public schools. 

2. A recognition of the child, its needs and its training as a %ital part of the program of 
home economics. As this demands an application of the mental, social, and spiritual, as well 
as the physical, development of the child, it is urged that in organizing courses dealing 
with the child, the contributions of the psychologist and sociologist, as well as the physiolo- 
gist, be correlated with the home economics instruction so far as offering material dealing 
with all-around child development. 

(a) Provisions should be made that adequate courses dealing with the "child" are offered 
by the public schools through day, part time, and evening classes to young mothers, young 
women who contemplate early marriage, or where statistics bear evidence of the probability 
of early marriage, girls from sixteen to eighteen years where conditions and needs of the 
groups justify such courses. 

(b) As we realize that the well trained sjTnpathetic teacher is essential to the success of 
such a program, the American Home Economics Association should urge the inclusion of 
well planned courses to be supplemented wherever possible by practical work with the 
children as a part of the training of all teachers of home economics who desire to teach the 
general problems of homemaking, rather than some of the special phases of home economics. 

3. Economics: This field offers opportunities for cooperation that have been too much 
and too long neglected. In spite of all of the discussion of the last few years, the emphasis 
is placed on the technical side rather than on the economical. We have continued to teach 
only the arts and principles of life within four walls, and %ve forget that these are buUt upon 
an economic foundation which we have recognized in the name of our profession. 

Home economics workers should be alive to the relation of shelter and surroundings to 
general health and efficiency, and should be ready to take part in rnovements looking toward 
improved conditions of housing. Courses deahns with the material equipment of the home 
should emphasize the factors which deterrcine intelligent selection and purchase, use, care, 
and repair. 

5. Attention is called to the desirability of cooperation with school and institutional 
architects and building committees, as to plans for rooms and equipment. 

Yl. Organization ol plans for work in the future; 

It is suggested that each section chairman together with such committees as shall be 
appointed shall plan a program of work for the section which shall continue throughout the 
year. Each section shall be called upon to report plans and progress at the time of the mid- 
winter meeting. 

Report accepted. 

Voted that a copy of the program of work report be sent to state supervi- 
sors of home economics, to state home economics associations, and to state 
departments of education. 

Voted that the expense of mimeographing the Program of Work be 
authorized for payment. 

Committee on Committees. For committee personnel recommended and 
approved see pp. 598-600. 

Other recommendations are as follows: 

1. That the Finance Committee be asked to make a plan for the reorganization of the 
finances of the .Association including a budget and to make a report at the mid-winter meeting. 

2. That the Committee on Time and Place consider the time and place for the 1924 
meeting and report on that at the Detroit meeting. That in general the Committee on Time' 



1922] COUXCIL MEETINGS 587 

and Place of Meeting be appointed to refwrt two years in advance of the time of meeting 
whenever it is practicable. 

3. That the Program Committee for the annual meeting be made up of a chairman 
appointed by the Council and local representatives of the various sections of the Association. 
It is further recommended that the representative of a section be appointed by the section 
chairman, if for geographical or other reasons it is undesirable for the section chairman to 
ser\-e directly. If the program committee has not received a satisfactory report on a section 
program seven months prior to the date of the meeting, it shall be the duty of the chairman 
of the program committee to appoint a local member to attend to the interests of the section. 
It shall be the dut}- of the section representative to work in close touch with the section 
chairman in the preparation of the section program, and to assist the chairman of the pro- 
gram committee with the general program. The chairman of the committee is empowered 
to add to the committee members representing special interests not otherwise represented. 
The chairman of the section shall preside at the section meetings or appoint a delegate. 

4. That the Committee on Interrelations with other Organizations be asked: 1. To see 
that a representative is present at important meetings of societies with related interests, who 
will make report through the Journal. 2. To recommend the appointment of a representative 
on joint committees with other organizations, or appointment of committees to act with other 
organizations. 3. To keep in touch with the policies of the .American Association of University 
Women. 

5. That the Committee on Pledge Fund for Executive Secretary be continued, with 
substitution of Florence Harrison for Ava Milam. 

6. That the Committee on Opportunities report once in five years. 

7. That the Committee on Home Economics in Business be granted their petition to be 
continued for another year as a committee with the right to present a program at the annual 
meeting. 

8. That the Committee on Related Art, petitioning to form a section, be advised to organ- 
ize as a committee with permission to present a program at the Chicago meeting, and that 
they be further advised to present again, at that time, their petition for a section. 

Report accepted. 

The Executive Committee presented the following recommendations 
which were acted upon as indicated. 

1. That affiliation with the National Council of Women be referred to a committee 
appointed by the president and this committee report to the secretary of the .Association 
before the ne.xt mid-year meeting. (Adopted.) 

2. That the Eastern region be divided into two regions; one region to comprise New York, 
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware and to be called the Eastern Region, the second to 
comprise the New England states and be called the New England Region. That each region 
have its own regional delegate and each state its representative. (Adopted.) 

3. That the Council discuss advisability of the New England Region's request for permission 
to have associate members to take care of the homemakers section, charging these associate 
members only SI 00 and not counting them in on the 100 per cent returns. (Voted that the 
Council do not allow or receive associate members in any state or region; that this be done 
as a matter of policy.) 

4. That the Constitution remain as it now stands — that three-fourths of the states of 
a region must be affiliated before they may elect their regional representative. Also, recom- 
mended that choice of councilors from regions not yet organized be left to the new council. 
(Adopted.) 



588 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

5. That the work of the Regional Organization Committee be continued as long as its 
services are required. (Adopted.) 

6. That the dues be prorated quarterly in the case of any person joining the Association 
at large and later on in the same year joining a state association, until all the states have 
affiliated. (Adopted.) 

7. That alternates for state council members be not allowed. (Voted that a State or 
Region can be represented only by its Councilor or a duly elected alternate.) 

8. That the Association accept the invitation of the National Society for Vocational 
Education and hold the mid year meeting at the time of their annual meeting in Detroit, 
November 30 to December 2, 1922. (.Adopted.) 

9. That the Association accept the invitation of Chicago to hold the next annual meeting 
in Chicago at approximately the same date as the present meeting. (Adopted.) 

10. That the action taken at the Chicago meeting in March, 1921, concerning a 13th issue 
of the Journal or Home Economics be rescinded and that abstracts only of the addresses and 
the business transacted at the meetings of the Association be printed in the proceedings 
number of the Journ.il. (Adopted.) 

11. That the Association consider an effective budget for the income. (Council voted to 
go on record as favoring a budget based on a study, by the finance committee, of conditions 
and previous expenditures.) 

12. That Miss Fisher of the Journ.al Board be instructed to notify Mrs. Norton that the 
extended leave of absence requested by her had been granted. (Adopted.) 

13. That the Committee on Regional Organization prepare such a statement as to make 
absolutely clear the procedure necessary for affiliation of regional or state organizations. 
(Adopted.) 

14. That Miss Sweeny be made Executive Secretary of the American Home Economics 
Association. (Adopted.) 

15. That all monies which come to any section be deposited in the hands of the treasurer 
and so disbursed, (.\dopted.) 

16. That a letter be sent to Secretary Wallace, Washington, D. C, approving the establish- 
ment of a Home Economics Bureau in the Department of .\griculture. (Adopted.) 

INTERRELATIONS WITH OTHER ORGANIZATIONS 

The report of Ruth Wheeler as representative of the American Home 
Economics Association on the Food and Nutrition Committee of the National 
Child Health Council was read by the secretary-. It appeared in full in the 
editorial section of the September Journal. 

Voted to accept the invitation of the American Association ] or the Advance- 
ment of Science to have a sectional program at their meeting at Christmas time, 
that program to be arranged by Dr. Langworthy. 

For invitation from the National Society for Vocational Education see Execu- 
tive Committee recommendation 8, p. 588. 

For affiliation with National Council of Women see Executive Committee 
recommendation 1, p. 587. 

The California Home Economics Association was asked to arrange a section 
program with the National Education Association. 

For relations with other organizations see Executive Committee minutes 
p. 597, and recommendation 4 of Conmiittee on Committees, p. 587. 



1922] BUSINESS MEETING 589 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Proceedings of Meeting. Voted that articles and business be abstracted to 
appear in a regiJar issue of The Jodrnai.. See Executive Committee recom- 
mendation 10, p. 588. 

Executive Secretary. See Executive Committee recommendation 14, p. 588, 
and minutes of Executive Committee, p. 597. 

Secretary. Voted that the present secretary be asked to remain as secre- 
tary for a third year. 

Sections. Voted that a committee be appointed to consider the voting 
rights in sections and report at the Detroit meeting and that the committee 
be asked to make recommendations, after reviewing plans of the Sections, for 
correlating their work with the national Association. 

Program. For representation of sections see recommendation 3 of Commit- 
tee on Committees, p. 587. 

Voted that a letter of appreciation be sent to Miss Baldwin, Business Editor 
of the Journal, who was unable to attend the meeting. 



BUSINESS MEETING 

Meeting called to order August 3, by the president, Mary E. Sweeny. 
Minutes of the meeting on June 30 to July 3 at Swampscott omitted, since 
they were printed in the Journal. 

Minutes of the Council meetings of August 1 and 3 read and approved. 

Report of the Treasurer read by the Secretary. Accepted. See report of 
Finance Committee, p. 582. 

COMMITTEE REPORTS 

Journal Board. Report read by Dr. Langworthy in the absence of Miss 
Fisher, Chairman. 

It is unfortunate that the members of the Board have been so widely separated this year 
as to make it impossible for all members to meet during the year for the purpose of discussing 
the various problems that have developed since the last annual meeting. The members of 
the Board deeply appreciate the time and effort which Mrs. Bryan has spent in carrying 
on the duties of editorship during Mrs. Norton's absence. 

\Mien Mrs. Norton was granted leave of absence for the work at Constantinople College, 
it was with a definite understanding that she would be ready to take up her duties again 
this year at the beginning of July. She has not returned, however, and has asked that her 
leave be extended until next February as she felt that her work in Constantinople was not yet 
organized to the point where she could leave it to be continued to any advantage by her 
successor. The granting of this lea\ e would mean that another acting Editor would have to 
be found to carry on the work in the meantime, unless Mrs. Br>'an could be persuaded to 
change her plans entirely for the coming year and to continue the editorship during the 



590 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

interval. Obviously it would be difBcult to find another suitable person who would be 
willing to accept this very temporary but most responsible position, and unwise as far as the 
interests of the Journal are concerned, as it would of course take some time for this person 
to become famUiar with the various phases of the editorial work. Mrs. Bryan has, however, 
very generously consented to alter her plans and to extend her time of service to the Journal 
until February of next year. 

The members of the Board wish to present to the Council for consideration some questions 
which appear at this time to be of major importance in looking to the future of the Journal 
as it should represent the interests of the Association. 

It is strongly felt that the work which Keturah Baldwin has done as business editor is 
indispensable to the future development of the Journal. Miss Baldwin has brought to her 
work her college training, a wide acquaintance with home economics problems, and a knowledge 
of related sciences. In addition to the details of the office work, she has assisted with the 
editorial work, and has kept in close touch with Association interests. 

In considering a full time editorship, it is important that the person who assumes this 
responsibility should be qualified for this particular work. She should have good executive 
and business ability, and her work should result in a greatly increased subscription list 
and a growing number of advertisers who are entirely acceptable to the professional interests 
represented. 

In all this work the editor should, of course, be very actively assisted by the associate 
editors and the Editorial Board. All groups in the Association have wished to see their 
special phase of the work given adequate attention in the Journal, but no group has as yet 
contributed as it should in making this possible. If the Journal is to develop into a publi- 
cation which serves the various needs of the Association in the finest way, each member must 
become a subscriber and must feel personally respxinsible for making some worthwhile contri- 
bution. The officers must also be prepared to render as unselfish and constant service as did 
that pioneer group in the earlier history of the Journal. 

Report accepted. 

Voted that the Committee for the Promotion of the Journal be asked to 
formulate plans to induce subscribers not now members to join the Association 
and those now members to subscribe for the Journal. 

For further consideration of this report see Council minutes, p. 582. 

Committee to Promote the Journal. Report read by Mrs. Bryan in 
the absence of Miss Kaufiman, Chairman. 

The Committee undertook the study with two definite aims in view: 

I. To ascertain in what way and by what means the content of the Journal of Home 
Economics might best be expanded and modified to be of interest and value to all groups 
in the field of home economics. 

II. To study methods of publicity and advertising of the Journal and its content in 
order to increase the subscription list and thus to secure the use of its pages for advertising 
purposes by business concerns. , 

To carry out this program a number of sub-chairmen were appointed, each one being 
made responsible for a group of states. 

The following summary represents the important points given in the detailed reports 
received. 

I. Content of the Journal. 

/. That the content of the Journal be expanded to cover more adequately the entire 
field of home economics. That more material be published in administration and business 



1922] BUSINESS MEETING 591 

of the home; its economic and social aspects; its relation to community problems, and espe- 
cially the relation of the children to all these phases of family life. That such topics as food 
and its preparation and nutrition be given less consideration to give place for the important 
items suggested in (1) above. That contributions on hygiene and health be sought, espe- 
cially on the teaching of health as to methods of organization and use of illustrative material. 

2. That many of the present articles found in the JotiiXAL are too technical for the general 
teacher of home economics, the social worker, the homemaker, and the business manager. 
That too much space is given to detailed analysis. In lieu of this it is suggested that details 
of scientific and semi-scientific experiments be kept in the Journal office and a summary only 
of the results and conclusions, made by some practical expert, be published in the Joitrnal 
from time to time. 

J. That reports of actual work in the field and problems solved be published. That the 
Federal Board for Vocational Education be asked to advise the editor of the JotrRNAL 
concerning pieces of work that are being conducted in the various states. 

■i. That material to aid teachers in the grades and secondary schools be increased. 

5. The present material published for the homemaker is too highly technical. It is sug- 
gested that more material be included that will be of interest to homemakers and that such 
material will also serve in large measure the needs of the high school teachers whose entire 
scheme of instruction must be based on an analysis of the vocation of homemaking. 

6. That a definite policy be adopted by the Joitrnal whereby each number shall contain 
a certain amount of material of interest to each of the sections of the Home Economics Asso- 
ciation. In this way it will make a more definite and constant appeal to the different classes 
of home economics workers. 

The Committee is aware that its recommendations cover a very wide field and that the 
most outstanding question raised is: "What is the proper field for the Journal of Home 
Economics?" 

Can it hope to cover or e\ en touch frequently all the interests in this large and varied field 
of home economics? Should it attempt to do this or should it narrow its field to such objec- 
tives as: 

(1) An organ of the American Home Economics Association to keep its members in 
touch with aims concerning the various projects in different parts of the country on which 
they need to be informed. 

(2) An organ to disseminate subject matter in home economics. 

(3) An organ for organization and methods for the vocational and other teaching interests, 
for extension workers, or for dietitians. Should it issue supplements or bulletins or circulars 
for each of these groups for which subscriptions are made or compensation otherwise received 
from the groups most concerned? 

The committee feels, however, that the wide and varied field, set down in its recommen- 
dations is the one to be adopted at the present time as a basis for content. 

II. Ways and means for increasing publicity and advertising, thereby increasing its 
patronage, and enlarging its content. 

1. Attractive posters describing the Journal placed at magazine stands where the 
Journal is sold or in some popular store patronized by members of women's clubs. 

Z. That the State Home Economics Associations adopt as their project for 1922-23 the 
promotion of the Journal. 

3. That a full time editor on salary be employed to study and attempt to meet through 
the pages of the Journal these varying needs of home economics workers, or an executive 
secretary employed on salary with a paid assistant, the two being jointly responsible for the 
publication of the Journal. The executive secretary would bring from the field the needs 
of home economics workers and direct, in the large, the publication, while the assistant would 
be responsible for the details. 

Report accepted. 



592 THE JOURNAL OF HOMD ECONOincs [November 

International Home Economics. In the absence of Miss Atwater, Chair- 
man, and Miss White, Acting Chairman, Dr. Langworthy called attention to 
the reports of Mrs. Strong and others (see pp. 528-534), and also gave the 
following report. 

Brazil is interested as recently reported, but no great work is being carried on there. 

Interest is shown in Cuba but again no work definitely reported; the same is true concern- 
ing South America. 

Much work is being done in Japan, and it is organizing in China. 

We know about the work of Mrs. Norton in Turkey. 

The Philippines are doing a great deal of work, especially on canning tropical fruits. 

The work of the International Oftice in Switzerland took a leading part in the work of 
home economics this summer. They arranged exhibits and helped in other ways. 

The Swiss Home Economics .Association requested the permission to translate the texts 
and charts for use in the Swiss Schools. 

Miss Atwater, now in France, is making a survey of some of the home economics work 
being done there and has sent some interesting material. 

England has a publication which corresponds to our extension papers. 

Holland is also carrj'ing on work in home economics. 

Belgium has its new superior college in domestic science and from publications received 
in the Department of Agriculture at Washington we know that they are doing a good work. 

Report accepted. 

Legislative. Report read by Miss Stanley, Chairman. 

The past year has been one of inaction, comparatively speaking, on the part of the legis- 
lative committee. We have kept the Fess and Smoot biUs on the active working program of 
the various women's organizations. 

When visited by members of the Women's Congressional Committee, Mr. Fess stated 
that he could not report this bill until after the Stirling-Towner biU has been reported from 
the Education Committee. 

The most important work this year has been initiated by Jessie Harris who prepared 
a survey showing the need for more funds for vocational home economics in Texas. Similar 
material has been requested from all state supervisors. Copies should be sent to publicity 
and legislative chairmen. 

We have been unable to get any reaction from Mr. Smoot in regard to the Smoot bill. 

Report accepted. 

Discussion from the floor as to action that should or should not be taken on 
the Voight Bill. Voted that the Association take no action regarding the 
Voight Bill. 

Research. Report read by Dr. Denton, Chairman. 

Progress reports from two cooperative research projects are presented before the Foods 
and Nutrition Section at this meeting. One of ihese is Emulsions in Mayonnaise, involving 
cooperation of home economics departments of half a dozen colleges. The other is Stand- 
ardization of Household Measuring Cups, involving cooperation of a special committee of 
one, with the U. S. Bureau of Standards. Several new cooperative projects are being 
organized. 



1922] BUSINESS MEETING 593 

The Siib-cotnmittee on Research in Foods and Nulrilion reports the preparation of two 
articles for the JontNAL, dealing with standards for research, and research methods, suggesting 
research projects, and abstracting or listing unpublished theses. Prosecution of vitamin 
studies in relation to cooking and preserving processes, is regarded as an especially important 
project to be fostered by this committee, at this time. 

The Sub-cmnmittee, Research in Textiles and Clothing has attempted to define this research 
field. It has been decided that educational measurements belong to educational research 
rather than here. 

The committee has further been concerned with standards for research. JIany studies 
of the sur%'ey tj^pe are being carried on. 

The following studies have been reported this year: 

Miss Weller of Minnesota and her students are working on factors which affect the strength 
of cotton goods. Mrs. McGowan of Teacher College continues her study of washing powders 
and their effect on cloth. Miss Denny of Washington and her students are working on the 
problem of shrinking of cotton goods, also of fading, both in the sun and by washing. Miss 
Balderston of Teachers College has conducted interesting studies on the washing of woolens, 
particularly infants' shirts. Miss Stanley of Missouri reports work on mordants. Miss 
O'Brien of Iowa reports effect of Bleaching on Tensile Strength of Fabrics and Effect of 
Reagents used in Laundering on Discoloration of White Cotton Goods, both published in 
JotrRX.\L or Home Economics; she also reports, as in progress. Effect of Stripping Methods 
on Physical Properries of Fiber and Wool Fabric, and Comparison of Rate of Removal of 
Vegetable and .\nimal Oils, in Stain Removal. Two master's theses in history of costume 
were done in the Household .A.rt department of the University of California last year. A 
chart representing an e.xtensive series of tests made by Miss Weirick of Sears, Roebuck, on 
silk stockings, is to be reproduced at cost for the benefit of those who may wish to study these 
tests and their results. 

The Stib-commitlee, Research and Extension urges closer correlation between stale and 
federal extension and research specialists, in the all-important matter of analyzing and resolv- 
ing field problems. In at least one state a definite research project in child nutrition has 
been instigated by this committee, to be carried on by cooperation with e.xtension specialists. 
Furthermore, the committee is making a special effort to list and classify requests for informa- 
tion which come in from the field, with the idea of making this list available to resident staff 
engaged in research, as well as to subject matter specialists. 

The function of the Sub-committee on Educational Research is: a. To stimulate educational 
research, b. To keep in touch with educational research and make it available to those who 
can benefit from it. c. To suggest needed topics for educational research, d. To develop 
cooperation between the education departments and the home economics departments. 
e. To make known all available opportunities for educational research — fellowships, scholar- 
ships, etc. f. To stimulate and aid education departments to include the consideration of 
home economics problems in the philosophy of education for prospective superintendents, 
principals, etc. 

The definite suggestions for work for the coming year are: 

1. To consider the various problems of interest to educational workers. These seem to 
group themselves under the following topics: 

a. Content of courses based upon 1. Mental, social and physiological development of 
the group. 2. Previous training and experience. 3. Needs of groups. 

b. Methods of organizing and teaching material based upon 1. The application of the 
laws of learning. 2. A study of the learning difficulties. 

c. Development of special methods to be used in presenting subjects in the home economics 
course. 

d. Educational measurements. 



594 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

e. School administration, involving the problems of cost, grouping of students and meas- 
ures of properly estimating the value of home economics in the program. 

2. Outline a few problems which might be undertaken in the field of educational research. 

3. IVfake available information in regard to special research work in home economics 
which has thus far been undertaken. 

4. Review the important education journals with a view to keeping teachers in touch 
with lines of educational research of special interest to home economics teachers. 

Report accepted. 

Executive Secretary Fund. Report read by Miss Johnson in the absence 

of Miss Matthews, Chairman. 

This gave a detailed report by states and showed a total of $4804.13 pledged 
of which $3600.13 has been paid. 

Report accepted. 

Program of Work. Report submitted by Miss Swain. See Council 
minutes p. 585. 

Nominating. The following nominations, previously posted, were pre- 
sented by the Nominating Committee and the nominees were elected by ballot. 
President, Alice F. Blood; Vice-President, Anna E. Richardson; Councilor at 
Large, Mary E. Sweeny. 

Related Arts. Report submitted by Winifred Gettemy, Chairman. 

This committee makes the following recommendations: 

I. Interpretation of the term related art. Related art is the development of appreciation 
of art principles and the functioning of these in solving the problems of selection, 
arrangement, and construction, which are met in every day life. 
II. Place of related art in the curriculum. The related arts course in the Smith-Hughes 
High School should be part of the homemaking course. In case the courses in art 
are given outside the home economics department in the Smith-Hughes High 
School extra effort should be put forth to secure a closer relationship between the 
departments. 

III. Training of related arts teachers. The teacher of related arts should be a woman who 
has had several courses in academic art and the most of whose home economics 
training shall have been in the clothing and related arts group, namely, clothing, 
millinery, home furnishing, applied design, costume selection. The teacher-training 
institutions should have either a separate course for the training of teachers of 
related art, or should stress in their methods course the teaching of related art. 

I\'. Organization of the responsibiUties in homemaking, in which a working knowledge of 
related art is needed. 

A. Selection of ready made hose, shoes, hats, suits, coats, dresses, underwear, acces- 

sories. 

B. Planning of home made articles. Selection of material. Design. 

C. Harmony and appropriateness of parts of the whole. 

D. Personal Appearance. Hair dressing, use of cosmetics, manicuring, wearing of 

clothing. 

E. Feeding the family. Sen-ing the simple meals attractively. Setting the table. 

Food combinations — color, texture. Serving special occasions. Table decor- 
ation, invalid trays, attracrive lunches, arrangement of children's food. 



1922] BUSINESS MEETING 595 

F. The Home and iu equipment. Location, selection and planning of house, 

decoration of house, planning grounds, selection and arrangement of fur- 
nishings. 

G. Civic beauty. Buildings, natural beauty, community festivals. 
V. Objectives, 

A. The ability to recognize the adherence to and the deviation from the principles 

of design and color harmonies as expressed in related and pictorial art. 

B. Foods. The ability to select and prepare meals from the standpoint of color and 

texture of foods and the suitable appointments and arrangement of the 
table. .\n appreciation of the psychological effect of well prepared meals 
and well set tables. 

C. Clothing. The abihty to select and design clothing suited to the individual to 

meet the requirements of line, proportion, texture, pattern of fabric, hygiene, 
appropriateness to occasion, and becomingness to wearer. An appreciation 
of the psychological effect of clothes and color upon the individual. 

D. Shelter. The ability to judge and arrange for appropriate use decorative schemes, 

house furnishings, and color harmonies to conform to the principles of design 
and the theory of color. An appreciation of the necessity of elements of 
comfort and simplicity in the entire house to promote the welfare of the 
inhabitants. An appreciation of the necessity of order, sanitary conditions, 
and well made articles to promote the highest ideals of American citizenship. 
VT. Methods of instruction. Presentation of principles followed by application. Project 

method. Build up rules and principles through experience. 
VII. The committee recommends that there be a very close correlation of the related arts 
to the courses, foods, shelter, clothing, economics, and hygiene. 

Report accepted. 

Resolutions. Report read by Isabel Bevier, Chairman. 

1. The American Home Economics Association acknowledges the receipt of the com- 
munication from the National Kindergarten Association and recommends the cooperation 
of the members of this Association in the efforts of the Kindergarten Association to establish 
"petition kindergarten laws." 

2. The committee recommends that the .'\ssociation reaffirm its interest in and its purpose 
to continue its efforts to secure the passage of the Fess bill and to have the bill reported out 
of committee before the close of the present session. 

3. WTiereas the home economics association realizes the need of a research program in the 
further development of home economics and knows the necessity for financial aid for such 
a program, the .-Association urges the passage of the Smoot bill or that the provisions of the 
Smoot biU be embodied as an amendment of the Purnell bill. 

4. The American Home Economics .Association notes with regret that three of the women's 
colleges of the southern section have given up the work in home economics in their respective 
institutions. The Association earnestly hopes that the authorities in those institutions will 
continue the effort to develop in that region such phases of home economics as are adapted 
to their traditions and needs. 

5. The committee is at a loss to find words to express full appreciation of the untiring 
efforts e.xpended in the generous hospitality accorded the Association since arriving in Port- 
land. Our gratitude is extended to the following organizations and individuals: 

In Portland — The Presidents' Council; Progressive Business !Men's Club; Chamber of 
Commerce; The Portland School Board; The Home Economics .Association of Portland; the 
Press. 



596 THE JOURNAL OF HOiEE ECONOMICS [November 

In Corvallis — The authorities of the Oregon State Agricultural College; the faculty; 
students; alumnae and friends of the institution; Corvallis Women's Club; CorvaUis Chamber 
of Commerce; the Women's Auxilliarj- of the Chamber of Commerce; the Press. 

6. In this connection the committee recommends a resolution of thanks to Miss Nina 
Streeter who had the difficult and thankless task of arranging transportation facilities for the 
trip. 

7. The committee feels that the Association wishes to record an expression of appreciation 
of the unusual service rendered by Mrs. Mary de Garmo Br\-an in the responsibilities that 
have developed upon her as acting editor of the Jotitx.^L. 

8. The Association e.xpresses its appreciation of the invaluable services rendered through 
many years by the Office of Home Economics under the able leadership of Dr. Langworthy. 
His sympathy, interest, and cooperation have contributed in no small degree to the success 
of the organization. 

9. The Association notes with pleasure the correlation of the work of home economics 
at Drexel Institute and the University of Pennsylvania. 

10. The Association learns with regret of the serious and long-continued illness of one of 
its most competent and faithful workers in the pioneer days, Miss Alice Ravenhill, and sends 
to her this expression of sympathy. 

11. The committee is shocked to receive from Miss Gunther a telegram announcing the 
death of Mrs. Aimie Dewey "Our honored, beloved, home economics leader." 

Those who know the work of the Deweys in the Lake Placid Conference and Mrs. Dewey's 
continued interest in the home economics work will appreciate more fully the loss, but the 
entire association will wish to record their appreciation, and the committee recommends 
a resolution conveying our s)mpathy be sent to Mr. Dewey and the son, Godfrey Dewey. 

Report accepted, and Secretarj- instructed to send a telegram to Mr. Dewey.* 

COMMUNIC.MIONS 

Miss Bevier read a letter from the Near East Relief Headquarters of appeal 
for financial aid in the work of the Near East Relief. A sum of S60.00 was 
raised and forwarded for this Fund. 

A message was read by the Chairman from Alice Ravenhill with greetings 
from IVIiss Ravenhill and wishes for a successful convention. 

Voted that the Association send a telegram to Miss Ravenhill.* 

AMENDMENTS 

A vote was taken on the proposed changes in the constitution, previously 
submitted by mail, with the action noted after each. 

CONSTITUTIOX 

Article IV, Sec. 6, (3). Suggested change — regional councilors elected by their regions to 
serve for two years. (Adopted.) 

BY-LAWS 

Article I, Paragraph 2. Suggested change — Add "Nominations may be made from the 
floor." (Lost.) 

Article II, Sec. Ill, (3). Suggested change — It shall elect from its membership two mem- 
bers who, with the president, the vice-presidents, the secretar\% the ofiice secretary "ex ofticio," 

* Acknowledged. 



1922] EXECuxrvT committee meeting 597 

the treasurer, the editor of the Jov rxal, and three regional councilors designated by the 
Council, shall form the executive committee. (Adopted.) 

Article III, Sec. II, (1), Paragraph 1. Siigs<:sl(^d cliatige — Omit sentence, "Such affiliated 
societies must have within their own membership at least ten members of the American 
Home Economics Association." (.\dopted.) 

(1), Paragraph 3. Suggested change — Omit this paragraph, (.\dopted.) 

(2) Suggested citatige — Add, ''These associations shall pay an annual fee of S5.00 to the 
treasurer of the National Association. (Adopted.) 

Article \", Sec. 2. Suggested change — The finance committee shall present to the executive 
committee by Dec. 1st of each year, a budget for the next fiscal year and, on approval of the 
executive committee, shall authorize the treasurer to make payment under the budget. 
The fiscal year shall be the calendar year, January 1st to December 31st. The finance 
committee shall receive, etc. (rest of paragraph same as original). (Lost.) 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 

The results of the deliberations of this body are set forth, in the main, in 
the recommendations presented to the Council, see p. 587. 

The committee authorized the payment of part of Mrs. Bryan's e.xpenses 
not included in the Journal budget, and also the e.xpenses incurred by Miss 
Streeter in arranging for the special train. 

\'oted to ask the Home Economics Association of Greater New York to 
finance our part in the Public Health Exhibit in Brooklyn. In case of ex- 
cessive cost it should be reported to the Finance Committee. 

A letter of inquiry was received from the Western Arts Association in regard 
to joint meetings with them. Committee decided to request that Council 
ask the State Association of Missouri to handle it until the regional organiza- 
tion has been completed; this information to be incorporated in the reply to 
the Western Arts Association. 

The Association was asked in a letter from the General Federation of 
Women's Clubs to have a representative on the Advisory Council for the 
Motion Picture Division of the General Federation. The letter was referred 
to the Committee on Interrelations with the name of Miss Jessie Winchell 
proposed as the member of the Committee. 

The constitution of the Southern Region was discussed and decision made 
that no action is necessary so long as it does not conflict with the constitution 
of the A. H. E. A. 

It was decided that the work of the executive secretary for the present 
should be the completion of the affiliation of the states and a unifying of the 
organization. 

Miss Milam reported that S60.00 had been collected for Miss Ravenhill. 

Voted that the expenses incurred by the program committee be paid. 

Voted that Miss Sweeny, Miss Cooper, and other oflicers of the executive 
committee be reimbursed for incidental expenses of the convention. 

Other matters discussed but with no action taken: Fiscal year, treasurer, 
organization of Richards Memorial Fund Trustees, a letter suggesting the 
making of a film for the Association, to be used by the general public. 



598 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES 



OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION 



President, Alice F. Blood 

Vice-Presidents 
Isabel Ely Lord 
Katharine Blunt 
Anna Richardson 



Textile 
Chairman, Ruth O'Brien 
Secretary, Rose Shonka 
Treasurer, Beulah Blackmore 



Secretary, Lerma F. Cooper 
Treasurer, H. Gale Turpin 
Executive Secretary, Mary E. Sweeny 
Ofice Secretary, Keturah Baldwin 



OFFICERS OF SECTIONS 



Institution Economics 
Chairman, Sibylla Hadwen 
Secretary, Emma Knight 



Home Economics Extension 
CImirman, Nina B. Crigler 
Secretary, Addie D. Root 



Home Economics Education 
Chairman, EUen A. Reynolds 
Secretary, Jenny H. Snow 

Food and Nutrition 
Chairman, Mrs. Jessamine Chapman Williams 
Secretary, Frances L. Swain 

COMMITTEES SERVING AT ANNUAL MEETING 



Nominating 

Florence Harrisonl . . , , „ ., 
Essie Elliott I Appomted by Council 

Agnes Donham, Eastern Region 

Beulah Coon, West Central Region 

Cleora Helbing, Southern Region 

Mrs. Jessamine C. Williams, Pacific Region 

Program of Work 
Frances Swain, Chairman 
Ruth Dickey 
Anna Richardson 
Mary DeGarmo Brj'an 
Edna Walls 
Maud Wilson 
Margaret Sawyer 
Frances Kelley 



Resolutions Cammittee 



Isabel Bevier, Chairman 
Rachel Colwell 
Mrs. Nina Badenock 
Mrs. Myrtle Cole 
May Hoddon 



On Committees 



Alice Blood, Chairman 
Jenny Snow 
Rena Maycock 
C. F. Langworthy 
Lucy W. Wade 
Effie Raitt 
Cleora Helbing 



STANDING COMMITTEES 



Journal Board 



Executive Committee 



Katharine Fisher, Chairman 
Mary De Garmo Bryan, Editor 
Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 
Mary Hinman Abel 
C. F. Langworthy 
Grace G. Dermy 
Katharine Blunt 



Officers of the Association 
Editor of the Joitrnal 
Mary Sweeny 
Margaret Sawyer 
Gladys Branegan 
Edith Thomas 
Jenny Snow 



Councilors at large 



Regional Councilors 



1922] 



OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES 



599 



Ricliards Memorial Fund Triislees 
Martha Van Rensselaer 
Anna Barrows 
Bertha :M. TerriU 

Mrs. Mar>' H. Abel 
Isabel Bevier 
Robert H. Richards 
Cora Winchell 

Isabel Ely Lord 
Emeline Whitcomb 
Mary Gearing 
Mary \'ail 

Mabel Wellman 
Agnes Harris 
Jenny Snow 
Edna \ATiite 



Terms expire 
January 1, 1923 



Terms expire 
January 1, 1924 



Terms expire 
January 1, 1925 



[ Terms expire 
( January 1, 1926 



Finance 
S. Agnes Donham, Chairman 
H. Gale Turpin 
Mrs. Marion Cole 

Secretarj'-Treasurer of R.M.F. Fund 
Editor of JofEKAL 
Executive Secretary 
Chairman Executive Secretary Fund 

Legislative 
Louise Stanley, Chairman 
Jessie Harris 
Jessie Whitacre 
Edna White 
Isabel Bevier 
Frances Zuill 

Inlcnialional Home Economics 
Helen Atwater, Chairman 
Edna \\Tiite 

Mrs. Ann Gilchrist Strong 
Mrs. Alice Norton 
Ava B. Milam 
Emma Gunther 



Interrclalions with other Organizations 
Margaret Sa\v>'er, Chairman 
Editor of the Joiirnal 
Antoinette Roof 
Grace MacLeod 
Adelaide Baylor 
Lydia Roberts 
Hannah Wessling 
Ruth Van Deman 

Research 
Minna Denton, Chairman 
Grace Denny 
Florence Nesbitt 
Hildegarde Kneeland 
Nina B. Crigler 
Agnes Fay Morgan 
Anna E. Richardson 
Margaret Proctor 

Press and Publicity 
Nina Streeter, Chairman 
Lillian Tingle 
Helen Louise Johnson 
Agnes Craig 
Gertrude Lane 
Martha Van Rensselaer 
Marie Sellers 
Amy Armistead 
Susie V. Powell 
Editor of the JotntNAL 

Standards of H. E. in Colleges 
Helen Atwater, Chairman 

Regional Organization 
Edith Thomas, Chairman 
Agnes Ellen Harris 
Gladys Branegan 
Anna Kloss 
Mary Matthews 
Maude Murchie 

Executive Secretary Fund 
Mary L. Matthews, Chairman 



Time and Place of Meeting 
Cleora Ilelbing, Chairman 
Stella Palmer 
Mate Giddings 

Program 
Katharine Blunt, Chairman for Chicago 

Meeting 
Edna White, Chairman for Detroit Meeting 



SPECIAL COMMITTEES 

Membership 

Mrs. O. E. Osborn, Chairman 
Presidents of state organizations or their 
appointees 



Voting Rights in Sections 
Frances Kelley, Chairman 



600 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

GROUP COMMITTEES 

Social Welfare Home Economics in Business 

Lydia Roberts, Chairman I\Iary E. Keown, Chairman 

Homemakers Related Art 

Mrs. Mildred Weigley Wood VVinnifred Gettemy, Chairman 



The Mid-year Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association will be held in Detroit, November 30-December 2, 
in connection with the National Society for Vocational Education. 
Programs will be mailed to all members. 



Vol. XrV', No. 12 December, 1922 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Woric in Home Economics 

Maiv de Gabuo Dsyan, EdiUir Ketorah E. Baldwin, Buiiitesi Editor 

Edilorial Board 

Mrs. Mabv H. Abel C. F. La^^cworthy Katharine Fisher Grace G. Denny Kathasinc Blui^t 

Editor of "The Question Box," Amy Daniels 

Associate Editors 

Day Monroe, News 

EorrH Barber and Mildred Weigi^y Wood, Social Welfare and the Home 
Florence Ward, Extension 
Sybil WooDRtryp. Foods and Nutrition 
Cora Winchell and Euua Conley, Education 
Rdth O'Brien, Textiles 
Mabel Liitle, Institution Economics 
Elizabeth Miixer Koch, Bibliography 
Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Present STATtrs op Experimentai, Rickets Nina Simmonds 601 

Native Dietary on Niue Island Annie B. Juniper 612 

A Unified Program of Extension Work for the Farm Home Madge J. Reese 615 

A Nutrition Demonstration Juanita E. Darrak 616 

Studies on Calcium and Magnesium Metabolism in Normal Women . . . L. Jean Bogert 619 
Report of Work on Energy Expendhuse for Sewing and Some Other Household Tasks 

C. F. Langworthy 621 

An Analysis of Textbooks in Clothing and Textiles Etitel L. Phelps 625 

Thk Boys' and Girls' Achievement Club 632 

Editorial 633 

Open Forum 637 

Books and Literature 639 

News from the Field 643 



The Journal of Hobie Ecosomcs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.50 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.85. CANADIAN $2.70. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT, Remittances should be sent by New York Draft. Check, Express Order, or Postal Money Order, 
payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check or order, no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS, Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The JotjR.NAL OP Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia: The Old Comer Book Store, Bosum; 
A. C. McClurg & Co.. Chicago; Hochschild, Kohn & Co., Baltimore: Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



Healthful 
Reliable 



'^Z^.JZ^- 






The prudent 

housewife avoids 

substitutes, which may 

contain alum, and uses 

ROHAL 

BAKIHG 
POWDER 

Absoiuieiy Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, 
derived from grapes. 



^^^^ 



In writing'advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XIV DECEMBER, 1922 No. 12 

THE PRESENT STATUS OF EXPERIMENT.\L RICKETS 

NINA SIMMONDS 

Department of Chemical Hygiene, School of Hygiene and Public Beallh, The Johns Hopkins 

University 

In the year 1650 Francis Glisson published the first adequate description of the disease 
which is stiU commonly known as rickets (1). The condition had appeared in the counties 
of Dorset and Somerset in England about thirty years previous to his writing and had been 
called "rickets" by the country people. They derived this word from the old EngUsh verb 
"wrikken," which means to bend or twist. Even though the name was very expressive of 
the bow legs and other deformities which follow rickets, the term did not satisfy Glisson. 
He christened it "rachitis," a word which he derived from the Greek words for spinal disease. 
Rachitis is the name which many doctors use for the disease today. 

.\s a matter of fact rickets was really no new disease in the 17th century. We know that 
children must have had it in England before the Romans came. One skull of a child who 
lived in the bronze age has been found which shows definite signs of rickets. 

Rickets can appear in infants as early as the third month of life, but there is at present no 
good e'.'idence that they are ever born with it. The disease usually manifests itself at any 
time from the si.xth to the twenty-fourth month. Although it is usually a disease of infancy 
there are many cases where "late rickets" attacks older children and even young adults. 
.■\lmost all premature children develop the disease. Children with rickets are usually fairly 
well grown and appear to be fairly well nourished. 

Rickets is a disease which affects the entire body although the most noticeable signs of it 
are seen in the bones. At the beginning of the disease the children are usually constipated. 
They are restless and irritable and their sleep is troubled. Frequently a rachitic child rolls 
its head about on its pillow until the hair is worn off from the back of its head. The muscles 
are lax, the tendons and ligaments may become elongated. Because of this as well as from 
the softening of the bones the children do not walk or stand at the proper time. The muscles 
of the intestines are affected as well as those of the legs and arms. Because of the weakness 
of these and the muscles of the abdomen, pot belly develops. 

As the disease goes on the deformities of the bones begin to show. The first of these to 
appear is the "rickety rosary," or a line of knobs on the sides of the chest where the bone of 
the ribs joins the cartilage. The walls of the chest are drawn inward every time the child 
breathes, and grooves are formed on either side along the line of attachment of the diaphragm. 
The chest becomes compressed from side to side and pigeon breast deformities develop. 

Bosses of new bone are formed on the sides and front of the skuU and the head acquires 
a square shape. The ends of the long bones of the extremities become enlarged so that there 
is a swelling of the wrists and ankles. The legs become knock-kneed or bowed. The bones 
of the arms bend. Curvatures of all sorts appear in the spine. 

601 



602 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Some children show very severe anemia during the course of the disease, and some manifest 
extreme nervousness, even convulsions. Rickets may be fatal by itself, but usually the child 
dies from some complication (2). The disease contributes verj' markedly to infant mortality 
because it renders infants suffering from it extremely susceptible to other diseases and weakens 
their resistance to any disease they may acquire. 

Children with rickets are constant sufferers from colds and bronchitis and life is fre- 
quently destroyed by pneumonia, which is the result of these conditions. The severity of the 
complications is partly because various organs of the body are interfered with by the bony 
deformities and partly because of the weakness of the organs themselves. Finally rickets 
interferes very seriously with the growth of the child and children may actually become dwarfs 
because of it. 

EXPERIMENTAL RICKETS 

One finds many references in the literature of the past few years to attempts to produce 
in animals by various means the disease commonly known as rickets. Although much 
research has been directed toward the solution of this problem, the experimental diets em- 
ployed were not so planned that the results could be accurately interpreted. A single example 
of the type of experiment planned with this end in view will serve to illustrate the point at 
hand. Dibbelt (3) sought to produce rickets in dogs by feeding them a low calcium diet 
composed of horse meat, carbohydrate (rice starch), and sodium chloride. This diet is low 
in calcium, to be sure, but there are several other factors which contribute to making it a poor 
diet. It is low in all three of the well known vitamins, viz., fat-soluble A, water-soluble B, 
and water-soluble C, and also in the new vitamin which will be discussed later. Its inorganic 
content is not so adjusted that the results could be said to turn only on the shortage of calcium. 
Even if the dogs had developed rickets one could not have said that the condition was due to 
the absence of calcium, although this would have been the interpretation put upon the experi- 
ment. 

It will be recalled that it is only since November, 1915, when McCoUum and Davis 
published their papers on "The Essential Factors in the Diet" and "The Dietary Deficiencies 
of Rice" that it has been possible to plan an adequate diet for the rat and know why it was 
adequate (4). 

The importance of the aforementioned papers in this discussion is that prior to their 
publication it was not possible to name the different factors necessary to make a diet physio- 
logically complete. They paved the way for the "biological analysis of foodstuffs", the 
results of which have enabled one to inspect a mixture and predict its shortcomings, and the 
additions necessary to induce growth. In other words, McCoUum and Davis demonstrated 
clearly that the "chemical analysis of foodstuffs" must be replaced by the "biological analysis" 
if progress in nutrition was to be made. 

One must bear in mind that in experimental work of this kind a working hypothesis is 
necessary, as it aids in drawing deductions from data with an understanding which is not 
otherwise possible. If, however, new dietary essentials are to be discovered one must deviate 
from the established formula and inquire whether under any dietary conditions the first 
hypothesis breaks down. If the hypothesis does not hold under the new dietary conditions, 
wherein do these differ from the conditions under which the hypothesis did hold? It is by 
some such procedure that new discoveries are made. 

Prior to 1918 Dr. IMcCollum and I had seen gross changes in the bones of many of our 
rats, which were very suggestive of rickets. Realizing that gross changes were not sufficient 
to determine the presence or absence of rickets we merely kept tract pf the various diets 
upon which these changes occurred. Not knowing what actors were involved in the causa- 
tion of rickets and not knowing which of the changes were rickets, it was deemed inadvisable 
to even venture a guess as to the etiology of this disease. 



1922] PRESENT STATUS OF EXPERIMENTAL RICKETS 603 

When the co-operative study with Dr. Park and Dr. Shipley was begun, they found that 
many of the bones presented the typ cal histopathological picture of rickets, whereas some of 
the bones showed rickets-like changes, and other bones showed conditions which were in no 
wav related to rickets. Tj-pical rickets was found in animals fed diets which varied grea ly 
in their composition. It seemed at one time almost impossible to run a connecting thread 
through the various diets upon which rickes did develop. The question may be asked, 
what are the characteristics o' a rachitic bone? It is impossible in most instances to tell 
a rachitic bone except from hstopathological sections. A rachitic bone has the following 
properties: (a) calcification of the provisional zone of cartilage does not occur; (b) cartilage 
cells persis in the shaft below the normal epiphyseal line; (c) there is irregular invasion of 
the cartilage by blood vessels and connective tissue; (d) newly formed preosseous tissue 
remains uncalcified and is produced in abnormal amount — the so called osteoid tissue; (e) 
there is present the rachitic metaphysis which is composed of blood vessels, isolated masses 
and tongues of cartilage, connective tissue, and osteoid (5). 

The degree to which a rachitic bone will show all of these characteristics depends upon 
numerous factors. If the rickets-producing diet is one on which the animals do not grow to 
any extent the condition is less marked, whereas on a diet which will induce some growth the 
picture may be exaggerated. One of the greatest problems which had to be met in investi- 
gating the etiology of rickets was the ruling out of diets upon which the animals did not all 
perform alike. If the diet used induced very little growth in the animals many of the bones 
presented only a mild grade of rickets, although some would show very pronounced rickets; 
in other words the results were inconstant. When one is working with diets which do not 
induce much growth but always early decline, there is a great tendency to cannibalism. 
This is especially true of diets low in fat -soluble A. After the eyes have become sore and the 
animal debilitated a rat is often destroyed by his companions. This was a most disturbing 
factor in our earlier studies on experimental rickets. 

Mellanby was the first to associate the group of fats rich in fat-soluble A with the pre- 
vention of rickets (6). His work focused the attention upon the problem as to whether fat- 
soluble A or some other factor associated with certain fats was essential for bone growth. 
Mellanby worked with dogs. Whereas some of his data were suggestive that fat-soluble A 
was essential for bone growth, some of his results indicated that perhaps another factor 
was needed which was not identical with fat-soluble A. He did not prove or disprove this 
point. This is true for the reason that in many cases Mellanby did not appreciate the 
importance of the calcium phosphate ratio in the study of rickets. Thus he added meat to 
diets low in phosphorus and prevented the animals from having rickets by thus raising the 
phosphorus, but he attributed the prevention to the fat which he had added (7). Jfany of 
Mellanby's deductions were apparently drawn from X-ray photographs instead of from histo- 
pathological studies. As has been pointed out, the diagnosis of rickets can be made only 
from the latter studies, since both the X-ray pictures and the clinical appearance of rickets 
may result from an osteoporosis or sclerosis, which is in no way related to rickets in children 

Since most if not all rachitic bones show great deformity, many investigators were inclined 
to the view that the diets planned to induce rickets in animals must be low in calcium. Since 
an animal does not grow to any extent in the absence of calcium , animals fed such diets did not 
always show typical rickets. Many animals fed diets very low in fat-soluble A but containing 
an abundance of calcium showed typical rickets, %vhereas some presented rickets-like condi- 
tions. Since bones are composed of both calcium and phosphorus the question of the relation 
of phosphorus to bone growth soon became appreciated. One of the greatest advances in the 
study of this most interesting condition was the demonstration by Sherman and Pappen- 
heimer (8) and by ourselves (9) that diets containing calcium and phosphorus in certain ratios 
even in the absence of fat-soluble A do not cause rickets to develop. The bones are not 
normal, since a condition of osteoporosis results. This point has been discussed in detail 
elsewhere (9). 



604 TiiE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS pDecember 

It has been known for about a year and a half that the main factors involved in the etiology 
of rickets were faulty relations between the calcium and phosphorus — either a low calcium 
and a high phosphorus or a high calcium and a low phosphorus (10) — and the shortage of an 
organic factor associated with certain fats (11). It has also been known that if the three 
factors are lacking, rickets will not develop or is very irregular in its development. The 
question which could not be definitely proved or disproved was whether or not this organic 
factor was the same as fat-soluble A or whether it was a different factor having a similar 
distribution. We were in possession of data secured with our "line test" diet which has been 
discussed elsewhere (12) that butter fat was very inferior to cod-liver oil in causing the 
deposition of calcium salts in a metaphysis free from calcium. This fact in itself suggested 
the existence of a new substance but still did not rule out the possibility of merely a difference 
in concentration of fat-soluble A. In other words, did cod-liver oil only contain much more 
fat-soluble A than butter fat? To quote Pasteur — "In experimental science it is always 
a mistake not to doubt when the facts do not compel you to affirm." 

It should be pointed out that in diets where the calcium and phosphorus were furnished 
in about the optimal amounts as far as we know them for the rat (calcium 0.64 gm. and 
phosphorus 0.41 gm. per 100 gms. of food) we could not detect any difference between the 
potency of cod-liver oil and butter fat. It was only when one or the other of these elements 
was low that cod-liver oil was more effective than butter fat in causing a more efficient utiliza- 
tion of the element available. We were convinced that existing methods were not sufficiently 
critical to solve this perplexing problem. We sought, therefore, to attack the problem from 
various angles and see whether or not we could answer the question beyond doubt. 

EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE 

Making use of our experience with different types of diets in relation 
to rickets as well as ophthalmia we formulated a plan which involved 
a comparison of a selected list of fats in respect to three kinds of effects 
in nutrition. It may be stated again that we knew from previous ex- 
perience that cod-liver oil was much more effective than butter fat in 
promoting a better utilization of a low calcium supply. This observa- 
tion was one of the reasons for suspecting that cod-liver oil furnished a 
factor in abundance which butter fat contained only in small amounts. 

Our plan of testing a series of fats consisted of the following: 

1. We tested cod-liver oil, butter fat, shark-liver oil, burbot-liver oU, 
and several vegetable oils including coconut, maize, olive, sesame, and 
cottonseed, for their potency in causing the cure of ophthalmia due to 
lack of fat-soluble A. 

2. We made up a diet which was so loio in calcium that this was the 
limiting factor. It contained sufficient fat-soluble A to prevent oph- 
thalmia. The problem at hand was to see which fat contained some 
substance which would make for greater efficiency in the utilization of 
calcium than could otherwise be effected in its absence. 

3. We prepared animals for our "line test" by feeding a diet containing 
a great excess of calcium, and then tested out these different fats to 
discover their relative values for inducing the deposition of the line of 
calcium salts in rachitic bones. 



1922] PRESENT STATUS OF EXPERIMENTAL RICKETS 605 

When little rats are placed upon the following diet (rolled oats 40.0 
per cent, casein 5.0 per cent, NaCl 1.0 per cent, CaCOs 1.5 per cent, and 
dextrin 52.5 per cent) they soon show signs of incipient xerophthalmia. 
As soon as the Hds were badly swollen the different fats were added to 
the diet. We added liberal amounts of the fats to be tested, since we 
did not want to complicate our data by quantitative testing of fats at 
this time. It was found that cod-Kver oil, butter fat, shark-liver oil, 
or burbot-liver oil, cured xerophthalmia when fed at twp or three per 
cent of the diet for a few days. We did not find that any of the vegetable 
oils tested cured xerophthalmia after it had developed. It may be 
stated that in other experiments a few of these oils may have delayed 
the onset when fed in liberal amounts (8 to 20 per cent) from the be- 
ginning of the experiment. Let it be noted that coconut oil does not 
prevent or cure xerophthalmia even when fed at 15 per cent of the diet. 

Hopkins was the first to point out that oxidation destroys fat-soluble 
A (13). He showed that if oxygen is allowed to pass through heated 
butter fat the fat-soluble vitamin is destroyed. With this treatment 
butter fat loses its power of inducing growth or of curing xerophthalmia 
due to lack of this factor. 

Since we had not found butter fat very potent in the prevention of 
rickets under specific dietary conditions or in causing calcium deposition, 
we sought to treat cod-liver oil so as to destroy fat-soluble A. When a 
stream of air bubbles at the temperature of boiling water was passed 
through cod-liver oil for from 12 to 20 hours it no longer contained 
sufficient fat-soluble A when fed at 2 per cent of the diet to cure ophthalr 
mia. The significance of these results in connection with the problem 
of a special calcium-depositing vitamin will be discussed later. 

We had conducted many experiments which showed clearly that a 
diet may be so deficient in calciimi as to prevent growth in young rats 
(14). Butter fat was not nearly so potent as cod-hver oil in promoting 
growth imder these conditions. We selected a diet which was low in 
calcium and low in fat-soluble A, although the latter factor was not so 
deficient as to cause ophthalmia to develop. It contained about the 
optimal amount of phosphorus as far as we have determined it for the 
rat, and our problem was to see to what extent, if any, the different fats 
increased the efficiency of the animals in utilizing the small amount of 
calcium at their disposal. The diet selected had the following per- 
centage composition: whole wheat 25.0; whole maize 19.5; poUshed rice 
9.5; rolled oats 9.5; peas 9.5; navy beans 9.5; whole milk powder 5.0; 
casein 10.0; NaCl 1.0; dextrin 1.5. This food mixture was fed with each 
of the following fats: cod-hver oil 1 per cent, shark-liver oil 3 per cent, 



606 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

coconut oil 10 per cent, cottonseed oil 10 per cent, olive oil 10 per cent, 
and butter fat 10 per cent. It was very apparent from our records that 
when cod-liver oil, shark-liver oil, or butter fat was fed, growth pro- 
ceeded in a fairly satisfactory manner. Butter fat was not, however, 
the equivalent of the fish oils in this experiment. Coconut oil was the 
only vegetable oil which increased the efficiency of animals in utihzing 
their low calcium supply (15). It should be recalled that coconut oil 
did not prevent ophthalmia. These data show clearly a very re- 
markable property of certain fats which makes them of extraordinary 
importance in relation to calcium metabolism. 

Although the data discussed above were very suggestive that there 
was another factor aside from fat-soluble A playing a role in calcium 
metabolism, it by no means proved it. We therefore supplemented the 
data obtained with these tests with observations on the effects of the 
several fats on the healing of rickets. For this purpose we used the 
technique which we have called the "line test." The diet used for this 
purpose consisted of wheat 33.0, maize 33.0, gelatin 15.0, wheat gluten 
15.0, NaCl 1.0, and CaCOs 3.0. The proteins of this diet are of good 
quality and are abundant (about 33 per cent of the food mixture). 
The amount of phosphorus in the mixture is distinctly below the needs 
of the growing rat for this element. One hundred grams of this mixture 
contained about 0.3019 grams of phosphorus. Our observations indi- 
cate that the optimal amount of phosphorus in the diet of the growing 
rat is not less than 0.4146 per cent. It may be considerably higher. 
The calcium content of this food mixture is about 1.221 grams — approxi- 
mately double that required for optimal growth and function. Although 
the diet contains an excessive amount of calcium no deposition of calcium 
salts takes place. The content of fat-soluble A is below the optimal, 
but suffices to prevent the development of xerophthalmia. 

After animals have been fed on this diet for about 30 days one notices 
certain peculiarities in their movement. The gait is rather unsteady 
and the hind quarters waver from side to side. When they move off 
rapidly they hop, usually favoring one hind leg. When they exhibit 
these symptoms we have found it safe to rely on it that they will show 
the histological picture which is essential for the conduct of the test. 
When a group of rats are ready to be used for the test, some of them are 
given the substance which we desire to study in their food and the rest 
serve as control animals and continue to receive the diet unchanged. 



1922] PRESENT STATUS OF EXPERIMENTAL RICKETS 607 

When animals were suitably prepared for the "line test" different 
groups were fed the following list of oils: shark-liver oil, cod-liver oil, 
burbot-liver oil (a fish oil), butter fat, coconut oil, olive oil, maize oil, 
and sesame oil. The test animals and the controls were killed and 
autopsied at the designated time. It has been our custom to examine 
the distal end of the left femur and the proximal end of the left tibia for 
the reformation of the provisional zone of calcification. 

The bones of animals on this diet are very short, and the ends much 
enlarged. On section the cartilage of the epiphysis is irregular in 
depth and the epiphysis is separated from the diaphysis by a zone of 
white tissue (the metaphysis) which may be about 0.5 cm. deep. In the 
bones of the control animals or the animals which give a negative 
"line test" there is no calcification of the epiphyseal cartilage and little 
if any in the metaphysis. The shaft is incompletely calcified. These 
bones have been completely described in another place (12). Rats 
which give a positive "line test" differ from the controls in having a 
broad, linear deposit of calcium salts on the metaphyseal side of the 
epiphyseal cartilage. The band, which may not be complete, is sepa- 
rated from the shaft of the bone by the depth of the metaphysis and from 
the nucleus seen on the freshly cut surface of an untreated bone as a 
yellow line which marks the epiphyseal border of the metaphysis. The 
deposit is blackened by silver nitrate in fresh or fixed gross specimens. 
It appears like a cross-section of a black honeycomb when it is examined 
with a binocular microscope. The deposit is in the proliferative zone 
of the cartilage. It may extend completely across the bone or may be 
interrupted or fragmentary according to the activity of the calcium- 
depositing substance. It is stained brown by silver nitrate and an 
intense blue by hematoxylin. It is separated from the calcified trabecu- 
lae of the shaft by the width of the metaphysis. 

The several oils studied are listed in Table I. The amounts fed, the 
nimiber of days administered, the length of the preliminary period, the 
number of animals tested, and the results of the test, are given. Since 
starvation causes the deposition of calcium salts in the bones under the 
conditions of this test, we always kept food consumption records in 
making all of these tests (12). 

It will be seen from Table I that cod-liver oil, shark-liver oil, and 
burbot-liver oil, were highly effective in moderate doses in causing the 
deposition of calcium in the bones of rachitic animals. Butter fat was 
effective when fed in large amounts, but it was necessary to extend the 
time of administration to 14 days in order to obtain even a faint calci- 
fication on the bones. Coconut oil when fed at 20 per cent of the diet 



608 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



for 15 days caused the deposition of a small amount of calcium salts in 
the bones. Maize oil, olive oil, cottonseed oil, and sesame oil, were 
likewise fed at 20 per cent for 14 to 15 days, but in no case was there 
any tendency to the deposition of calcium salts. 

It will be seen from the table that samples of cod-liver oil which had 
been oxidized for four, twelve, and twenty hours respectively, were 
tested for their calcium-depositing power. The sample oxidized four 
hours still cured ophthalmia and also gave a positive line test. However, 
those samples oxidized for twelve and twenty hours showed the potency in a 
degree apparently comparable with similar amounts of untreated samples, 
notwithstanding the fact that they had lost their power to cure xerophthalmia. 
Oxidation, as pointed out by Hopkins (13), destroys fat-soluble A, but 
oxidation sufficient to destroy fat-soluble A did not destroy the other 
factor which plays an important role in bone growth. Coconut oil 
although lacking in fat-soluble A, since it wiU neither cure nor prevent 
ophthalmia, did cause a faint line of calcium deposition in the bones of 
the animals, thereby demonstrating that it contains at least small 
amounts of the calcium depositing vitamin. 



SI.VD OP OIL 


PER 
CENT 


EER OF 
DAYS 

IN PEE- 
P.IEA- 

PERIOD 


DAYS 

WAS 
GrVEN 


NUM- 
BER OF 
ANIMALS 


EESDLTS* 


Cod-liver oO 


2.0 


28 


11 


3 


Healing rickets 


Cod-liver oil 


0.2 


70 


5 


1 


Severe rickets, few fragments of calcium 
in the cartilage 


Cod-liver oil 


0.4 


70 


5 


1 


Severe rickets, no healing 


Cod-liver oil 


0.6 


70 


5 


1 


Beginning healing of rickets 


Cod-liver oil (oxi- 


2.0 


25 


6 


3 


Healing rickets 


dized 4 hours) 












Cod-liver oil (oxi- 


2.0 


28 


11 


3 


Healing rickets 


dized 12 hours) 












Cod-liver oil (oxi- 


2.0 


29 


10 


3 


Healing rickets 


dized 20 hours) 












Butter fat 


30.0 


32 


14 


2 


Beginning healing 


Shark-liver oil 


2.0 


34 


11 


3 


Marked healing 


Burbot-liver oil 


2.0 


30 


10 


4 


Healing well on 


Coconut oil 


20.0 


24 


15 


5 


Very sUght evidences of healing 


Maize oil 


20.0 


34 


15 


5 


Severe rickets, no healing 


Olive oil 


20.0 


34 


15 


5 


Severe rickets, no healing 


Cottonseed oil 


20.0 


29 


15 


5 


Severe rickets, no healing 


Sesame oil 


20.0 


24 


15 


5 


Severe rickets, no healing 



* For a detailed discussion of factors bearing on the conduct of this "line test" the reader 
13 referred to Jour. Biol. Chem., 1922, liii, 313. 



1922] PRESENT STATUS OF EXPERIMENTAL RICKETS 609 

The evidence from this series of experiments demonstrates the existence 
of a \'itamin which is apparently abundant in certain fish oils, notably 
cod-Uver oil, and present to a lesser extent in butter fat and coconut oil 
among the foods examined. Butter fat is a much better source of the 
fat-soluble A than it is of the substance which regxdates calcium metab- 
olism. Our results are in harmony with those of Mellanby, in that 
they show that coconut oil has an antirachitic effect (7). One feels 
after stud>ang Mellanby's data that he apparently did not appreciate 
the importance of the calcium and phosphorus in his experimental diets 
nor did he avail himself of the ophthalmia test in parallel with experi- 
mental rickets. Many of his apparently discordant results can probably 
be explained on the basis of these facts rather than in the content of 
his diets in the calcium depositing vitamin. 

The question naturally arises as to what this new substance does in 
connection with bone growth. As has been pointed out, "the function 
of this organic factor appears to be to activate and coordinate cellular 
function. It appears to raise the efficiency of the organism and permits 
it to put into successful operation defense mechanisms which without 
it would have been ineffectual. It does not meet the defects in the 
inorganic composition of the diet directly by supplying to the body either 
calcium or phosphorus. It apparently meets them indirectly by so 
raising the potential of the cell as to secure the most efficient utilization 
possible of those substances available which are directly or indirectly 
concerned with ossification and calcification. It seems to bring about 
normal ossification and calcification or else the closest approximation 
to normal ossification and calcification compatible with the marked 
variations from the optimal in the amounts of certain of the inorganic 
constituents of the diet. It does not regulate the inorganic metabolism 
of the body but permits the body's own regulatory mechanisms to oper- 
ate with increased efficiency and economy" (16). 

The whole story of rickets cannot be told in this brief paper. The re- 
lation of sunlight and ultra violet light to the healing of rickets is a 
phenomenon which we do not xmderstand. The work of foreign investi- 
gators, notably Raczynski, Sacks, Riedel, Putzig, and Huldschinski, 
as well as of Hess and Unger, Rowland and Kramer, and ourselves in 
this country, show clearly that sunlight and ultra violet light exert a 
protective action in the prevention or healing of rickets. We know that 
when children with rickets are exposed to sunlight or to ultra violet fight, 
and with no change in their diet, rickets tends to heal. We know that 



610 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

when rats were fed a rachitic diet and exposed to the sunlight for four 
hours a day for 64 days rickets did not develop; rickets did develop in 
the control animals kept in the laboratory. We cannot logically conclude 
that sunlight, important as it is, can take the place of good nutrition. 
For a detailed account of the relation of simlight, exercise, and hygienic 
conditions in relation to rickets the reader is referred to various papers 
in the bibliography (17). 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Glisson, F.: Treatise on Rickets, London, 1651. 

2. Park, E. A., and Howland, J.: The dangers to life of severe involvement of the thorax 

in rickets. Johns Hopkins Hospital Bull., 1921, xxxii, 101. 

3. Dibbelt, H.: Verli. d. deulsch. Path. Ces. T., 1909, xiii. 

4. McCoUum, E. V., and Davis, M.: The essential factors in the diet during growth. Jour. 

Biol. Ckem., 1915, xxiii, 231. The nature of the dietary deficiencies of rice, ibid., 181. 

5. Shipley, P.O., Park, E. A., McCollum, E.V.,and Siinmonds,Nina; Rickets and rickets- 

like disease produced in rats by deficient diets. Dental Cosmos, March, 1922. 

6. Mellanby, E.: An experimental investigation on rickets. The Lancet, March 15, 1919. 

Accessory food factors in the feeding of infants, ibid., 1920, 1, 1290. 

7. Mellanby, E.: Experimental rickets, 1921, London. 

8. Sherman, H. C, and Pappenheimer, A. M.: A dietetic production of rickets in the rat 

and its prevention by an inorganic salt. Proc. Soc.for Exper. Biol, and Med., 1921, 
xviii, 193. 

Sherman and Pappenheimer: A diet producing rickets in white rats, and its prevention 
by the addition of an inorganic salt. Jour. Exper. Med., 1921, xxxiv, 189. 

9. Shipley, Park, McCollum and Simmonds: A pathological condition bearing funda- 

mental resemblances to the rickets of human beings resulting from diets low in phos- 
phorus and fat-soluble A: The phosphate ion in its prevention. Johns Hopkins 
Hospital Bull., 1921, xxxii, 160. 
McCollum, Simmonds, Park and Shipley: The production of rickets by diets low in 
phosphorus and fat-soluble A. Jour. Biol. Chem., 1921, xlvii, 507. 

10. Shipley, Park, AlcColIum, and Simmonds: Is there more than one kind of rickets? 

Amer. Jour. Diseases of Children, 1922, xxiii, 91. 

11. Shipley, Park, McCollum, and Simmonds: The relative effectiveness of cod liver oil as 

contrasted with butter fat for protecting the body against insufficient calcium in the 
presence of a normal phosphorus supply. Amer. Jour, of Hygiene, 1921, i, 512. 
McCollum, Simmonds, Shipley, and Park: Is there a substance other than fat-soluble 
A associated with certain fats which plays an important r6le in bone development? 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 1922, 1, 5. 

12. McCollum, Simmonds, Park and Shipley: The production of rickets by diets low in 

phosphorus and fat-soluble A. Jour. Biol. Chem., 1921, xlvii, 507. A delicate bio- 
logical test for calcium depositing substances, Jour. Biol. Chem., 1922, li, 41. 
McCollum, Simmonds, Shipley, and Park: The effect of starvation on the healing of 
rickets. Jolms Hopkins Hasp. Bull., 1922, xxxiii, 31. 

13. Hopkins, F. G.: The effects of heat and aerarion upon the fat-soluble vitamin. Bio- 

chem. Jour., 1920, xiv, 725. 

14. McCollum, Simmonds, Shipley and Park: The effects on growing rats of diets deficient 

in calcium. Amer. Jour, of Hygiene, 1921, i, 492. 



1922] PRESENT STATUS OF EXPERIMENTAL RICKETS 611 

15. !McCollum, Simmonds, Becker, and Shipley: An experimental demonstration of the 

existence of a vitamin which promotes calcium deposition. Johns Hopkins Hospital 
Bull., 1922. xxxiii, 229; also Jour. Biol. Client., 1922, liii, 313. 

16. Shipley, Park, McCoUum, and Simmonds: The function of the organic factor as exempli- 

fied by cod liver oil. Trans, of the Amer. Ped. Soc, 1921. 

17. McCoUum: The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, jSIacmillan, 1922, New York. 
Tisdall, F. F.: The etiologj' of rickets. Canadian Med. Assoc. Jour., Dec, 1921. 
Hess, .\. F., and Unger, L. J.: The cure of infantile rickets by artificial light and sunlight. 

Proc. Soc. for Exper. Biol, and Med., 1921, .Tviii, 298. 
Hess and Unger: The cure of infantile rickets by sunlight. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 

1921,l.xxvu, 39. 
Hess and Unger: An interpretation of the seasonal variation of rickets. Amer. Jour, of 

Diseases of Children, 1921, xxii, 186. 
Powers, G. F., Park, Shipley, McCollum, and Simmonds. The prevention of rickets in 

rats by sunlight. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 1922, Ixxviii, 159. 
Powers, Park, Shipley, McCollum, and Simmonds. The prevention of rickets in rats 

by means of radiation with the mercurj' vapor quartz lamp. Johns Hopkins Hospital 

Bull., 1922, xxxui, 125. 
Hess, A. F. Newer aspects of some nutrition disorders. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 

1921, Lxxvi, 693. 
Hess, McCann, G. F., and Pappenheimer: The failure of rats to develop rickets on a diet 

deficient in vitamin A. Jour. Biol. Client., 1921, xlvii, 395. 
Pappenheimer, McCann, and Zunker, T. F.: The effects of varying the inorganic con- 
stituents of a rickets-producing diet. Jour, of Exper. Med., 1922, xxxv, 421. 
Pappenheimer, McCann, and Zunker: The effects of varying the organic constituents 

on a rickets-producing diet. Ibid., 447. 
Hess and Unger: The clinical role of the fat-soluble Natamin: Its relation to rickets. 

Jcnir. Amer. Med. Assoc. 1920, Ixxiv, 217. 
Hutchison, H. S., and Shah, S. J.: The etiology of rickets, early and late. Quarterly 

Jour. Med., 1922, Iviii, 167. 
V. Korenchevsky: Experimental rickets in rats. British Medical Jour., 1921, October 8. 
Zilva, S. S., Golding, J., Drummond, J. C, and Coward, K. H. The relation of the 

fat-soluble factor to rickets and growth in pigs. Biochem. Jour., 1921, xv, 427. 
Kramer, B., Casparis, H., and Rowland, J.: Ultra-violet radiadon in rickets. Effect on 

calcium and inorganic phosphorus concentration of serum. Amer. Jottr. Dis. of 

Children, 1922, xxiv, 20. 
Korenchevsky, V.: The influence of parathyroidectomy on the skeleton of animals nor- 
mally nourished, and on rickets and osteomalacia produced by deficient diet. Jour. 

of Path, and Bacter., 1922, xxv, 366. 
Findlay, L.: The etiology of rickets. A clinical and experimental study. Brit. Med. 

Jour., 1908, ii, 13; Diet as a factor in the cause of rickets, Archiv. of Pediatrics, 1921, 

xxxviii, 151. 
Paton, D. N., Findlay, L., and Watson, A.: Observations of the cause of rickets. Brit. 

Med. Jour., 1918, ii, 625. 
Paton, D. N., and Watson, A.: Etiology of rickets. Brit. Med. Jour., 1921, i, 594. 



612 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

NATIVE DIETARY ON NIUE ISLAND 

ANNIE B. JUNIPER 

Those engaged in home economics may be interested in hearing of 
foods and culinary processes on a primitive isle. 

Away off the tourist tract in the South Pacific, 380 miles south of 
Samoa, and some 250 miles east of the Tongan group, lies a small island 
called Nine, 40 miles in circumference. In days gone by it was not 
safe for a white man to land there. Captain Cook attempted it, but 
received such a hostile reception from this independent people that 
he quickly left and named it Savage Island. Today there are about 
4000 natives, and thirty white folk. 

There is very little communication with the outside world. An erratic 
bi-monthly cargo service from New Zealand, a sailing craft of a hundred 
tons, brings food and other stores over the intervening 1700 miles. Dur- 
ing the seven months I spent there, no passenger boat caUed, nor is a 
boat usually seen during the hurricane season, December to April. 

The natives of this island are still unspoilt by tourists. They are 
all dark-skinned; some with straight, others with curly black hair. 
They are of average height, well proportioned, slight and muscular 
rather than fat. Many remind one of gypsies seen in England. They 
are not overburdened with nerves; children and adults bear pain stoically. 
As a whole they are not very thoughtful for their children or old folk; 
indeed they are themselves but chUdren in many ways. 

As regards natural products, there are no cattle on the island, there- 
fore no fresh beef or mUk. Fowls abound, but are of a poor strain. 
They run wild, and eggs are very difiicult to obtain as the hens lay them 
in the bush and raise continuous families of chicks. Pigs, wild and tame, 
are found. Both kinds hunt their food, though the latter are fed some 
coconut and bananas. They are small animals, and the pork is sweet. 
They are usually killed for some function, such as a feast. 

As there is no stream, river, or lake on Nine, only sea fish are available. 
The coast is of treacherous coral, against which the Pacific rollers thunder 
continuously, and all fishing is done by natives from homemade canoes 
with out-riggers. There are flying fish, gorgeous colored blue, pink, and 
red fish of different kinds which the natives like. There are also small 
land crabs and uga (pronounced "unga"), which are good. 

The island consists of ravines, pinnacles and boulders of coral, sharp 
and cutting, with but few inches of soil, at most from one to two feet. 



1922] NATIVE DIETARY ON NHJE ISLAND 613 

The coconut palm and bananas, over a dozen varieties, flourish in 
abundance the year round; and in lesser numbers and at particular 
seasons, the mango, breadfruit, limes, oranges, lemons, guava, passion 
fruit, grenadilla, pineapple, paw-paw, custard apple, and small Italian 
tomatoes and cucumbers yield food. There are no vegetable gardens 
as we know them, and vegetables are scarce. The taro is the most largely 
grown, and forms the staple diet of the native. The yam or ufi comes 
next, and an occasional cabbage,, a few beans or an egg plant are some- 
times obtainable. There are no greens and salad plants, except small 
onions. All root vegetables and many fruits are exceedingly fibrous, 
and are rich in lime and starch. 

The dietary habits are simple. As a rule but one meal, or at most two, 
are taken daily, but fruit of various kinds, sugar cane, and cocoanut are 
eaten all day long, by both children and adults, whenever they can be 
procured. The morning meal often consists of cooked taro and a drink 
of water or coconut milk. The evening meal usually consists of taro, 
with a minimiun of fish, land crab, or perhaps tinned meat, cooked un- 
ripe bananas, with water or coconut milk as a beverage. A young 
coconut such as is used for drinking, contains nearly a quart of milk, 
which, at just the right stage, is almost effervescent. It is a dehcious 
and satisfying beverage. Instead of the hard meat of the mature nut, 
the shell is Hned with a thin layer of soft gelatinous substance which the 
native scoops out to eat. 

The food of pregnant mothers and young babies is carefully watched. 
The mothers eat no meat or red rish during pregnancy. Most babies 
are breast fed for nine months, though prepared milks are now used 
to some extent. At ten months infants are given a certain kind of 
cooked banana and taro. The food is chewed by a young healthy girl, 
and fed to the child. Later the child is given a tiny piece of fish or fowl, 
but all children, young or old, are given fish, fowl, or meat, in very small 
portions. 

Nine cooking processes are limited. Saturday afternoon is the great 
cooking day on which the family oven or uviu is used. Sticks and dry 
oily parts of the coconut tree are placed on the coral ground and lighted ; 
fresh coral is piled on the top and heated to a great heat. Some of the 
hot coral is then removed; the prepared food is placed on the hot coral 
stones and more heated coral is placed over the food. Leaves are spread 
over these and lastly a sack is placed on the leaves to keep the heat in. 
Thus is the food half baked and half steamed for from two to three hours, 



614 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

when it is ready to eat. What is not immediately required is re-covered 
and left cooking over night. The oven is in the cook-house, which has 
a palm-leaf roof, and a coral floor, but no sides. The utensils are huge 
bush knives, a big wooden trough (kumete), a strainer ollaukala which 
is a brown material found at the base of the coconut leaf, a native grater 
which is a piece of an iron hoop set in a piece of wood, the iron edge 
being jagged into teeth, a pail, and various piles of leaves which serve 
as saucepans and baking tins. Sea-water is used instead of salt. In 
making coconut cream, used in their cookery instead of water, five or six 
old coconuts are grated into a strainer cloth, coconut water and sea 
water are added, the strainer is tightly wrung, and a white cream flows 
out. With this the following dishes are prepared: 

Kaofi, a mixture of the root of a plant they call maniota and coconut 
cream, rolled in banana leaf and cooked in the native oven. 

Faikai ika, fresh fish, cleaned, covered with cream, rolled in a leaf, 
and cooked in the oven. A chicken is similarly prepared. 

Luu, young taro leaves placed in a banana leaf, coconut cream added, 
and the parcel wrapped in lautea leaves for protection during cooking. 

Faikai loku, sliced paw-paw, mixed with coconut cream and arrow- 
root, rolled and tied in leaves for baking. 

Vaihalo, arrowroot mixed with scraped young glutinous coconut 
and the milk from the nut, boiled in a saucepan, or cooked by inserting a 
white-hot stone in the vessel. This is a pleasant-tasting sweet porridge 
and is served hot, in half coconut shells. 

Taro are pared and baked in the oven; bananas are preferred green, 
baked in their skins. Eggs are not eaten by the natives. Chickens, 
though an important feature of all feasts are rarely eaten at other times. 

To sum up, the dietary is starchy and bulky, low in protein, high in 
fat from the coconut. The people look well-nourished, but not over- 
fed, and are noted for being the best workers among the Pacific natives. 
Venereal and skin diseases, first introduced by whites, are prevalent 
but, apart from these, the natives are a healthy people. 



1922] EXTENSION WORK FOR F.\RM HOME 615 

A UNIFIED PROGR.A.M OF EXTENSION WORK FOR THE 
FARM HOME' 

MADGE J. REESE 
Office of Extension Work, Untied States Department of Agriculture 

The west is setting the pace for the nation in growth and development. 
The increase in the number of farms in the ten western states, according 
to the last census, was from 10 to 119 per cent, while for the whole 
United States it was only 1.5 per cent. The west is predominately rural. 
Land is the great asset and the instinct of the westerner is to make his 
living from the land; therefore, the land grant colleges and the United 
States Department of Agriculture play an important part in develop- 
ment and progress. 

The unified extension program for the farm home must take care of all 
interests of the farm home, i. e., the home economics interests and the 
agricultural interests of the farmstead which usually come under the 
direct management of the women and girls. 

Last year in the fifteen southern states, 308,000 of the 517,000 women 
and girls, who conducted their demonstration under the guidance of 
home demonstration agents, reported that the farm home productive 
activities such as gardening, preservation of fruits, vegetables, and meats, 
poultry work, home dairy work, growing of flowers for sale, saving on 
clothing work and the fireside industries, had a valuation of $18,316,880. 
Twelve millions of this went for necessities in the home while sk millions 
•went for comforts, pleasures, education of boys and girls, investments, 
and bank accoimts. The amount produced by that number of farm 
women and girls in only one section of the country was as much as all 
agricultural and home economics extension throughout the United 
States costs from all financial sources. No one can question extension 
work as a good investment for the country. 

Intellectual and physical efficiency is based primarily upon a well 
nourished body. The farm woman is learning through home demon- 
stration work to provide proper and adequate diets for her family. She 
is being helped to a full realization that her first responsibility above 

' Abstract of an address presented at the Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, Corvallis, Ore., August, 1922. 



616 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

everything else is to give her child a fair chance to live, to grow, and to 
develop into a normal healthy himian being. This woman is also learn- 
ing to conserve her own time and vitality. 

Clothing has been a popular project in the extension program and it 
plays an important part because it has been made practical and economi- 
cal. However, if a county has nothing to report in its home demonstra- 
tion work but dress forms and hats, it cannot hope to make a deep im- 
pression on the public mind. 

The taste that most women and girls have for the aesthetic is being 
developed by helping them to make the home itself attractive as well 
as comfortable. The unified program provides also for the beautification 
of the entire farmstead. 

Community movements and activities have been stimulated, and the 
program should represent the needs of the prevailing home in the county 
or community. 

All extension workers, both men and women, must play a part in the 
execution of the program. No other country has recognized women's 
ability and responsibiUty to quite the same extent as it has been recog- 
nized in the extension service in this country. The extension service 
is dependent upon the research work in agriculture and home economics 
in colleges and universities, and stands back of any movement which 
promotes it. 

The home economics extension workers are proud of their section in 
the American Home Economics Association. The support and in- 
spiration we get from the Association will lead us on to greater service. 



A NUTRITION DEMONSTRATION 

JU ANITA E. D.\RR.\H 
Director of Nulrition Research, Florida Extension Department 

One of the chief causes of deficiency in the dietary of certain sections 
is the rather limited quantity of milk consumed. This applies more 
especially to certain rural communities but is not peculiar to Florida 
alone. It is probable that the southeastern states have a similar diet. 
In order to help the extension worker demonstrate the value of adding 
milk to the lunited diet common in Florida, some experiments were 



1922] A NUTRITION DEMONSTRATION 617 

conducted with albino rats. A basal ration was fed consisting of 
rice, grits, salt pork, sweet potatoes, cane syrup, and a very small amount 
of collards. One group of animals was fed this monotonous diet without 
milk. To One group was given, in addition, whole milk powder equiva- 
lent to one glass of milk per day calculated on the basis of the calories 
provided by milk, when one glass of milk per day is taken by the average 
child of five years; to a third group was given a ration supplemented 
by whole milk powder equivalent to one quart of milk in the dietary of a 
child of five. 

It was estimated that, after drying, one gram of sweet potatoes yields 
3.7 calories, and one gram of milk powder gives 5 calories. The ration 
containing milk in proportion equivalent to a quart a day was formulated 
as follows: 

Ration containing equivalent of one quart of milk 

per cent 

WTiok milk powder 33 .33 

Hominy grits 40.00 

Polished rice 6.66 

Sweet potatoes (dried) 6.66 

Salt pork 6.66 

Cane syrup 3 . 33 

Collards 3.33 

Ration containing cqui-jalent of one glass of milk 

per crnl 

Whole milk powder 8.0 

Hominy grits 52.0 

PoUshed rice 10.0 

Sweet potatoes (dried) 10.0 

Salt pork 10.0 

Cane syrup 5.0 

Collards 5.0 

A great difference was observed in rate of growth, adult size, ap- 
pearance, and beha\'ior of the rats on these different rations. The group 
receiving milk equivalent to one glass per day were intermediate in size 
between the other two groups. Behavior was normal. Those rats 
which got no milk were stunted, rough coated, and of vicious and nervous 
disposition. They showed a tendency to have scaly, bloody ears and 
tail. For example: at the end of a similar period of time, a rat on diet 
(1) gained 14.5 grams; a rat on diet (2) gained 93 grams; a rat on diet 
(3) gained 225 grams. The live animals were sent to the county and 
state fairs for exhibition in the nutrition booths. Considerable interest 
was thus aroused in the topic of milk consumption. They were also 



618 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

used to illustrate lectures to groups of school children from kindergarten 
to high school and appeared before women's clubs and parent-teacher's 
associations. The United States Bureau of Animal Industry became 
interested. They offered to prepare two sets of rats as permanent 
exhibits. One set of stuffed rats was kept in Washington and one was 
returned to Florida. The workers in Florida may now use either the 
live rats or the stuffed ones for demonstration purposes. The stuffed 
rats have been on exhibition during several weeks of milk campaigns, 
in different parts of the state. A large increase in milk consumption is 
being observed. It is easy to impress the fact that not only must some 
milk be taken, but also that the supply must not be stinted. Litters of 
young have been successfully reared by the rats receiving milk. 

It was thought advisable to attempt an analysis of the supplementary 
value of the milk powder. A new series of experiments was begun to note 
the effect of milk constituents when added to the milk free ration, sepa- 
rately. In one, 10 per cent casein alone, in another 10 per cent casein 
and 5 per cent McCoUum's salt mixture no. 185, and in a third butter- 
fat in addition to casein and salts have been incorporated. After live 
months the rate of growth observed with addition of casein alone is much 
better than that obtained on the same ration without such addition. The 
ration containing both casein and salts addenda is most beneficial of all. 
There seems to be no additional acceleration of growth produced by addi- 
tion of five per cent butterfat to this ration. This may be explained on 
the ground that yellow corn meal was used in this set of rations. Col- 
lards were omitted. Addition of casein and salts gives as good a rate of 
growth as addition of milk powder. For example : at the end of a similar 
period of time, a rat on the milk free ration plus the casein gained 43 
grams; a rat on the milk free ration plus the salt mixture gained 270 
grams; a rat on the milk free ration plus the butter fat gained 206 grams. 
These experiments seem to indicate that it is the quality of protein and 
the inadequate supply of inorganic salts which account for deficiencies 
in the southern dietary. 

The experiment has been repeated several times, and there will be no 
difficulty in repeating it in other laboratories. 



1922J METABOLISM IN NORMAL WOMEN 619 

STUDIES ON CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM METABOLISM 
IN NORMAL WOMENi 

L. JEAN BOGERT 
Kansas Slate A gricuUural College, Manhattan 

The subjects of these experiments were twelve normal young women. 
During a sixteen day period, their food intake was definitely controlled 
and quantitative collections of urine and feces were made. Both the 
food and excreta were analyzed for calcium, and their magnesium con- 
tent also determined in one group. In this way, calcium and magnesium 
intake, excretion, and balances were determined. The subjects were 
divided into three groups of four each and the ex-perimental period con- 
sisted, in each case, of four four-day periods. The object of the experi- 
ment with the first group was to ascertain whether an increased intake of 
calcium would affect the urinary and fecal excretion of magnesium and 
vice versa, thus showing interrelations between the metabolism of these 
two elements. In the case of the second group, the experiment was under- 
taken to investigate the effects of acid-forming and base-forming diets 
upon calcium excretion, while, with the third group, the diets were 
arranged with the hope of bringing to light the relation, if any existed, 
between the vitamine content of the diet and calcium assimilation. The 
diets were planned so as to pro\'ide adequate and constant amounts of 
energy, protein, fat, and ash constitutents throughout the experiment. 
Only distilled water was used for drinking or cooking purposes. Tea and 
coffee were allowed in moderate amounts. The chief articles of the 
diets were white bread, purified butter or nut margarine fat, very lean, 
minced beef, potatoes, rice, peanut butter, apples, sugar, and milk 
(Merrell-Soule dried milk diluted to constant composition with distilled 
water). The basal rations of the third group, selected so as to be as low 
in vitamine as possible, consisted only of very lean beef, rice, white 
bread, sugar, cornstarch, purified fat from nut margarine, and skimmed 
milk powder. The vitamine content of the diluted milk powder was 
probably still further reduced by cooking with rice in a pressure cooker 
(25 minutes at 10-15 pounds pressure). The following table shows 
roughly the dietary procedure used with the three groups. 

' Abstract of a report presented at the Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home 
Economics Association, Corvallis, Ore., August, 1922. 



620 



THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Period n 



Period IV 



Basal diet low in cal- 
cium and magne- 
sium 



Basal diet plus 6 gm. 

magnesium citrate 

per day- 
Basal diet as in 

Period I 

Basal diet plus 6 gm. 
calcium lactate per 
day 



Balanced diet, approxi- 
mately equal amounts 
of acid and base-form- 
ing elements 

Basic diet, consisting al- 
most entirely of base- 
forming foods 

Balanced diet as in 
Period I 

Acid diet — consisting al- 
most entirely of acid- 
forming foods 



Basal diet practically 
free from vitamines 



Basal diet plus 6 
cakes compressed 
yeast per day 

Basal diet as in 
Period I 

Basal diet with but- 
ter fat substituted 
for nut margarine 
fat 



The conclusions reached from the data collected in these experiments 
are, in brief, as follows: 

Group I. Interrelations between calciimi intake and magnesium out- 
put and between rr^agnesium intake and calciimi output have been defi- 
nitely established. An increase in the intake of calcium, by the ingestion 
of calcium lactate, caused increased magnesiimi output, whUe the ingestion 
of magnesium citrate resulted in an increased calcium excretion. 

Group II. The base-forming diets tend to divert calcium from the 
urine to the feces, while the acid-forming diets increase urinary calciiun 
at the expense of fecal calcimn. While the results are not conclusive they 
indicate a tendency toward decreased elimination of calcium with 
lowered negative balance on base-forming diets, and increased calcium 
excretion with augmented negative calcium balances on acid-forming 
diets. 

Group in. The addition of yeast to a basal diet, practically free from 
vitamines, led to lowered excretion of calcium and exerted a very favor- 
able influence upon the calciiun balances, usually changing negative 
balances to positive or to equilibrium. The substitution of purified 
butter fat for an equal weight of purified fat from nut margarine also 
resulted in decreased calcium elimination. The urinary calcium was 
usually unaffected but the amount of calcium in the feces was lowered. 
These facts suggest some influence of the vitamin content of the diet 
upon calcium assimilation. 



1922] ENERGY EXPENDITURE FOR SEWING 621 

REPORT OF WORK OX ENERGY EXPENDITURE FOR SEWING 
AND SOME OTHER HOUSEHOLD TASKS' 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture 

The year's work was a repetition of last year's work on sewing, with a 
woman as subject, in order to check the results after a lapse of a year; 
and an extension of the work subsequently to check that on washing 
dishes, ironing, and sweeping, done previously by another subject. 

The young woman who served as subject is 5 feet 6 inches tall. Her 
average weight is now 134 pounds, which is five pounds less than last 
year. During the experimental period she always ate the same kind 
of breakfast so as to secure uniformity in the energy expended for the 
digestive processes. 

The breakfast consisted of: f grapefruit with 1 teaspoon sugar, 
6 tablespoons toasted com flakes with 2 teaspoons sugar and -I gill 
cream, 1 slice of buttered toast, 1 glass milk. 

A routine for the day was followed consistently. The subject ate her 
breakfast at approximately 8:00 o'clock in the morning and entered the 
calorimeter about three-quarters of an hour before the experimental 
period and record keeping began at 11:30 a.m. The experiment con- 
tinued for two hours, during which time a carefully prescribed routine 
was followed. The carbon dioxide and water-vapor output were calcu- 
lated from the weight of the absorbers in which they were collected. 
The heat records from which the energy output was computed were 
chiefly made by automatic devices of great accuracy. 

The energy ehminated when the subject is at rest must be known in 
order to determine the amount of energy used in performing a certain 
task, the difference in energy output between the rest and work periods 
giving the energy involved in the performance of the work. 

During the sewing experiments the subject was seated in a bentwood, 
cane-seated chair and remained as quiet as possible, avoiding any move- 
ment not connected with the work. The hand sewing was done on 
sheets at speeds of 18 and 30 stitches per minute which made it possible 
to determine the relation between the rate of work and the energy 

• No account of these investigations would be complete without mention of the work of 
Mr. H. G. Barrot, in charge of the Respiration Calorimeter Laboratory and his associates, 
Mr. W. B. Emerson, Mr. S. C. Clark, Mr. M. H. Sherrill, and Miss Miller, on whom fell all 
the responsibility for securing the accuracy of the apparatus, supervising the routine of each 
test, and calculating the results. 



622 THE jouRXAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

expended. Sewing on sheets at 18 stitches per minute also served as 
a basis for comparison with sewing on other material such as a woolen 
army blanket. Earlier work on machine sewing, with both foot and 
motor driven machines was also repeated. The results agree very closely 
with those previously obtained except in the case of sewing with the 
foot-driven machine ; there the value was much lower, because of the 
removal of a braking effect on the belt where it ran through the table 
top and rubbed heavily on the edge of the holes; this change reduced 
by about 50 per cent the amount of energy necessary to operate the 
machine. 

For the sake of uniformity only one kind of stitch was used in hand 
sewing. This was the ordinary hemming stitch, the thread being pulled 
completely through with each stitch. The hem had been turned in 
advance, and threads of uniform length (37 inches) were provided. 
The movement of the arm gradually lessened as the thread grew shorter, 
but the rhythm was always the same and all work was timed to the 
beat of a metronome. 

The energy required for sewing on the soft wool blanket was less by 
approximately 25 per cent than on the sheet, although the blanket was 
much heavier. The lower figure we attribute to the more open texture 
of the material and greater ease in putting the needle through. 

In dishwashing experiments a table of adjustable height was used, 
and the comparative amounts of energy expended when working on 
surfaces of four different heights were determined. In one set of ex- 
periments the table was too low for comfort; in two, it was too high; 
and in one, it was set at the height which seemed the most comfortable 
to the worker. 

The dishes, consisting of two plates, two teacups, two saucers, and 
two bowls were taken from one pan, in succession, given ten rubs, 
turned; given ten more rubs on the other side, and placed in another 
pan. AU the work was done to the beat of a metronome, beating 130 
times per minute, 1 beat being allowed for each rub and 10 beats to 
change pieces. 

When the table was set at the lowest point tested, the distance from 
the top of the pan to the floor was 75 cm. This was so low that it necessi- 
tated bending the body at the hips and consequently supporting the 
whole upper body in this "off balance" position, and increased the energy 
output about 25 per cent over that found when the table was at a com- 
fortable height. Very little difference between the energy expenditure 



1922] 



ENERGY EXPENDITURE FOR SEWING 



623 



was noted in the experiments where the table was too high, and in those 
where the table was at a comfortable height. This is thought to be 
principally because the worker was able partially to support her arms 
on the edge of the pan. If the arms had been held free, the amount 
of energy e.xpended to support them would probably have increased 
the total by several per cent, as was the case in the previous similar 
experiments. 

The task of sweeping was done on the bare floor of the calorimeter as 
in earlier experiments. The broom was moved at the rate of 38 strokes 
per minute ; the effective portion of the stroke was the forward movement 
and the broom was lifted from the floor during the return. 

The ironing was done with towels 16 inches square and a 5-pound iron, 
and the board was placed at the same height as in the previous work 
with another subject. The rate of work was 70 strokes of the arm in 
SO seconds with 10 seconds to change towels. 

The following tables give a summary of experiments carried on in 
1921-22. 



Energy expended in carrying on household lasks by Subject E. M. 1921-1922 



KIND OF WORK 



5 a 

c- a 

o ^ 

V. 


a z § 

< H 

5 H Z 

< 


£ ° o 

p c! ^j 

O X < 

a u u 

< a 

.. > o 

cgS 

< 3 a! 

< 




calorki 


calories 


13 


66.7 




14 


61.2 




6 


64.0 




8 


87.6 


20.9 


10 


75.6 


8.9 


5 


72.3 


5.6 


6 


76.1 


9.4 


11 


71.0 


4.3 


3 


93.5 


32.3 


6 


86.1 


24.9 


3 


83.8 


22.6 


5 


84.1 


22.9 


5 


88.0 


24.0 


7 


105.0 


41.0 



DATE OF EXPERlMEtfTS 



Rest 

Rest 

Rest 

Machine sewing: 

Foot-operated machine 

Motor-operated machine 

Hand sewing: 

Sheets, 18 stitches per min. . . . 
Sheets, 30 stitches per min. . . . 
Elanlcet, 18 stitches per min.. 

Dishwashing: 
Top of pan from floor, 75 cm 
Top of pan from floor, 92 cm 
Top of pan from floor, 107 cm 
Top of pan from floor, 117 cm 

Ironing 

Sweeping 



Dec, 1921-Mar. 10, 1922 
Mar. 10,-May 1, 1922 
May, 1922 

Dec, 1921-Jan., 1922 
Dec, 1921-Jan., 1922 

Jan.-Feb., 1922 
Jan.-Feb., 1922 
Feb.-Mar., 1922 

Apr., 1922 
Mar., 1922 
Apr., 1922 
Apr., 1922 
May, 1922 
JNIay-June, 1922 



624 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Since the routine followed with the subject E. M. in 1921-22 was 
as far as possible the same as in similar experiments made with the same 
subject in 1920-21, and with the subject L. B. in 1919-20, the results 
for the three years are comparable. Table 2 summarizes the average 
hourly energy expenditures for different tasks as determined during the 
three years' work. 

Comparison of energy expended in carrying on hotisehold tasks by difereni subjecis and at 
different periods 



KIND OF WORK 



Knitting 

Crocheting 

Darning 

Hand sewing, 18 stitches per min.. 

Handkerchiefs 

Duck, 8 oz 

Sheeting 

Blanket, army 

Hand sewing, 30 stitches per min.: 

Sheeting 

Blanket 

Machine sewing: 

Motor-driven machine 

Foot-driven machine 

Dressing infant 

Washing towels 

Ironing towels 

Sweeping floor 

Washing dishes: 

Top of pan from floor, 75 cm. . , 

Top of pan from floor, 78 cm. . 

Top of pan from floor, 92 cm. . 

Top of pan from floor, 98 cm. . 

Top of pan from floor, 107 cm. . 

Top of pan from floor, 113 cm. . . 

Top of pan from floor, 1 1 7 cm. . 



ENERGY EXPENDED PER HOUR POE WOKE AIONE 



10.1 

8.3 
8.0 



23.6 
49.6 
24.3 
40.1 



30.0 
20.3 
24.4 



5.8 
5.6 
5.6 
4.3 



7.2 



8.3 
33.6 



5.6 
4.3 



9.4 



8.9 
20.9 



24.6 

32.3 
24.9 
22,6 
22.9 



From the data reported, it appears that knitting, crocheting, darning, 
and hand sewing make moderate demands on the body as regards energy 
expended per hour compared with washing, ironing, sweeping, and 
dishwashing. The differences observed in energy expended on sewing 
light-weight and heavier cloth are small, and are not sufficient for 



1922] TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTIIIES 625 

general deductions. These tests do not take into account such mat- 
ters as fatigue from sitting in one position, from monotony of work, 
etc., but simply the energy expended per hour for the work done. Sew- 
ing on a machine driven by foot power makes much more demand on 
energy expended per hour than sewing either by hand or by a motor- 
driven machine, but it entails a much lower expenditure of energy per 
yard of sewing than hand sewing. Sewing with a motor-driven machine 
makes shghtly less demand on body energy per hour than sewing by 
hand and much less than sewing by foot-driven machine; the energy 
expended per yard of sewing is also proportionately smaller. 

Of the other tasks studied, washing and sweeping make the largest 
demand per hour, and dressing an infant (a hfe-sized model) about seven 
times as much per hour as hand sewing. Dishwashing, at a table of 
such a height that it "fits" the worker, makes a demand on the body of 
about 21 calories per hour as compared with about 30 calories with a 
working surface too low for the worker, and about 24 calories per hour 
with too high a working surface. 



AN ANALYSIS OF TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 

ETHEL L. PHELPS 

University of Minnesota 

{Concluded) 

DISTRIBUTION OF SPACE AMONG THE FOURTEEN MAJOR TOPICS 

In order to portray more clearly the persistence and recurrence of 
fimdamental subject matter in clothing and textiles as shown in the 
43 texts analyzed, a study of percentages devoted to each of the fourteen 
major topics was made. Even a superficial examination indicated that 
these books have been characterized by considerable diversity in the 
nimiber and combination of topics, a characteristic not unnatural in a 
field which is relatively young and rapidly developing. 

The most useful and efiicient material to be included in any school 
subject must of necessity be determined (1) by the ends to be accom- 
plished through the subject in question, and (2) by a careful study of the 
needs of society, a test which Woody" has applied to spelling texts. A 

" Woody, C, Jour, of Educ. Research, I.: 119, Feb. 1915. 



626 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

description (unpublished — Division of Home Economics, University of 
Minnesota) states that home economics as a college curriculimi in a 
university should include: (1) preparation for homemaking; (2) prepara- 
tion for home economics teaching and extension teaching in home eco- 
nomics ; (3) preparation for vocations outside the home into which women 
enter and for which a major in home economics is desirable, such as 
dietetics or institutional management. This description, applied in 
whole or in part, would hold true for other types of schools in which 
home economics is taught and for which textbooks are needed. 

The topics which should be included in textbooks for accomplishing 
these ends can be determined only after a careful analysis of all of the 
operations of homemaking, institutional management, and other occupa- 
tions for which home economics curricula prepare. From this point of 
view the variability of topics previously referred to may be expected, 
and may in part constitute an effort to find the most socially useful 
material. There is sufficient evidence of a fairly well-defined core of 
subject matter which has been developed. Furthermore, other factors 
have contributed to the variations observed in the distribution of subject 
matter. 

The authors' conception of the function and place of textiles and 
clothing in relation to the whole field of home economics has often been 
quite dissimilar. The content of home economics itself has been passing 
through a period of evolution which would explain many of the modifica- 
tions of textiles and clothing subject matter. Finally, the authors have 
planned for diversified groups of students. 

Increases or decreases in the amount of emphasis placed upon the sev- 
eral topics during this period, are shown in nearly all of the percentage 
distributions of the major topics during the semidecades tabulated (see 
Table I). These variations are not constant for all of the topics, and 
have been influenced to some extent by changes in social and economic 
conditions. 

There has been a very slight tendency to decrease the attention given to general instruction 
and supplies, it having occupied a smaller percentage of space since 1910 than before that date. 
Such formal exercises as the teaching of correct methods of placing a thimble on the finger, 
and of threading a needle w-ith a given number of movements are less frequently found or 
more likely to be covered by a single sentence in the more recent texts. 

Patterns, drafting, and draping as a topic has fluctuated greatly, so far as relative emphasis 
is concerned. The highest peak was reached in 1900 to 1904, when 23 per cent of the space 
in the four books published was devoted to this subject. The lowest point occurs in the two 
books published since 1919, in which an average of less than 2 per cent was given over to this 
material. 



1922] 



TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 



627 



T.-VBLE I 
Average Percentage Distribution by Semi-Decades, of Subject Matter in Texts Analyzed 



General instruction and supplies. 
Patterns, drafting and draping. . 

Applied design 

Sewing processes 

Garment construction 

Care of clothing 

Millinery 

Knitting, crocheting, and lace making 

Textiles manufacture 

Textile libers 

Fabrics and their uses 

Glossary 

Bibliography 

Index 



10.84 
12.17 

4.43 

51.10 

9.07 

7.97 



9.71 
9.13 

34.02 
29.98 

7.42 



0.60 
0.86 

7.34 



5.72 
11.69 

3.18 
22.57 
26.85 

8.31 



3.43 
8.69 
8.04 
0.22 

1.31 



9.04 
23.01 

1.14 
40.70 

7.06 
14.72 



3.16 

2.47 



8.56 
3.70 
1.52 
41.42 
16.35 
9.31 

4.46 
5.32 
4.00 
3.37 

0.43 

1.58 



5.77 
8.96 
1.14 
24.50 
21.51 
9.65 

0.45 
6.28 
11.94 
7 

0.06 
0.52 
1.42 



Applied design has occupied a small space throughout all the decades studied. The most 
significant change occurred about 1915, the percentage space changing from 1.1 per cent 
for the 13 books published in the five years preceding that date, to 3 . 6 per cent for the 14 books 
put out in the five years following it. A textbook study probably pictures this phase of 
clothing work more inaccurately than any of the topics under discussion, as nearly 50 per 
cent fail to include art applications. In view of the fact that four-fifths of the cases where 
applied design was not included occurred previous to 1915, it would seem that the topic has 
secured comparatively recently a place in the subject matter of clothing and textiles. 

The emphasis placed upon sewing processes has grown and then declined. The high 
level, approximately 40 per cent, occurred between 1900 and 1919. Since 1909 a change in 
the popular conception of the nature of work in clothing has resulted in the decreased empha- 
sis placed upon sewing processes, to which certain economic and psychological considerations 
have probably contributed. The use of samplers which was responsible for the large per- 
centage of space devoted to sewing processes during certain of the periods studied has been 
noted previously. 

Garment construction and sewing processes are necessarily closely associated, the one 
embodying the practical application of the other. It is to be expected, therefore, that the 
emphasis placed upon garment construction would show a considerable decline until 1905; 
since then it has been gradually increasing. The average yearly percentages, when plotted, 
show this clearly, as the peak in the curve representing the relative amount of space devoted 
to serving processes corresponds in date to the low point in the garment construction curve, 
and as the one descends the other ascends. For this and the preceding comparison the five 
textiles texts were omitted. 

Care of clothing reached its highest peak in the 1900-1904 period; since then it has gradually 
declined. The earlier books devoted much more space to the discussions of darning and 
patching than did the later texts. Since 1917, however, a tendency to increased emphasis 
has appeared. The latter change is likely attributable to a response on the part of the text- 
book writers to the general thrift movement which started during the war. 

Millinery has been given little attention, three authors only having included it, and from 
three to eight per cent being the range of space allotted the subject. 



628 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Hand knitting, crochetings and lace making also has not generally been considered a part 
of this subject matter field. Only five authors have included any portion of this topic, 
although 16 per cent of the contents of one book were devoted to it. 

Textiles has received more and more emphasis during the periods studied. In textile 
vianufacture a slight lessening of emphasis has obtained since 1915. The e.xtremes of empha- 
sis placed upon this topic would doubtless well illustrate the effect of the previously mentioned 
differences in fundamental interests and experiences of the various authors. 

The gradual increase in the degree of emphasis placed upon the consideration of textile 
fibers is also clearly shown and is closely related to both textile manufacture and to the study 
of fabrics and their uses. 

Fabric study is the connecting link between textiles and clothing. The products of textile 
manufacture are the materials of clothing construction. Since 1905 fabric study has been 
receiving a growing amount of attention, which has been especially marked since 1917. This 
topic, in particular, shows the response made by textbooks to one of the more recently recog- 
nized fields in economics, the economics of consumption, and also shows a recognition of the 
highly important part played by women in that field. In fact, textiles as a whole may be 
said to be very largely preparation for more efficient consumption, a type of training which 
has not been ignored in clothing work. 



DISTRIBUTION OF SPACE AMONG FIVE SELECTED SUBTOPICS 

Clothing and textiles is a comprehensive term. The field includes a 
large volume of subject matter, and any classification, like that used in 
the present study, which condenses such a multidude of detail within 
the confines of fourteen topics, obscures thereby certain evidences of 
evolution. On the other hand, it would obviously be impossible, within 
the limits of the present paper, to trace the progress of each of the 54 
subtopics, or of their minor subdivisions. Five subtopics have been 
chosen to illustrate the character of changes which have occurred 
during the past four decades, so far as textbooks have reflected such 
modifications, these having been selected because of certain economic 
and social considerations (see Table II.) 

TABLE n 
Average Percentage Distribution, by Semi-Decades, of Five Selected Subtopics in TextsAnaiyzed 



SITBTOPICS 


o 


i 


1 


O 


2 


i 

0.44 
3.21 
0.32 


S 

0.59 
8.55 
1.78 
0.37 
1.79 


i 

0.70 
6.00 
2.96 
0.15 
1.89 


o 




10.65 
0.20 

4.10 




0.46 
8.83 
0.26 

2.00 


11.69 


0.08 

22.74 

0.04 
0.11 


? "^^ 






Commercial patterns and their use* 


1.70 

n 6^ 


Economics of clothing and buying 


5.30 



* Three books in 1910-1914 and two in 1915-1919 omitted in averaging for this subtopic 
because essentially devoted to textiles. 



1922] TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 629 

The sewing machine and ils useh3.ve not been included in all clothing texts, but the number 
in which it has been discussed has increased noticeably since 1894, when the subject was 
first mentioned. It is not included in the five textiles textbooks which have been omitted for 
this particular discussion. Of the 38 clothing books, 14 give some space to the sewing 
machine. Teh years elapsed between the first reference in 1894 and the second mention 
of the subject in 1904. Material on this subject was found in three other books published 
previous to 1915. Since then 9 of 16 books have included it. 

The proportional amount of space devoted to the study of the sewing machine has increased 
considerably since 1905. The actual amount of material on the subject has not been large 
at any tune, and very few illustrations have been used despite the complicated nature of the 
mechanism discussed. Three books published between 1905 and 1914 had approximately 
one half of one per cent devoted to the sewing machine, nearly all of which was text, 3 illus- 
trations having been used in one book. Clothing texts published in the five years following 
contained a greater amount of such material, with a more liberal use of illustrations. 
Although there was less than one illustration per book during this period, they occupied 
about one-sixth of the total space devoted to the subject. The two most recently pub- 
lished of these clothing texts have both treated the subject at much greater length than did 
their predecessors, the total amount averaging 2.4 per cent. There has been no freer use of 
illustrations than during the earUer period, their proportion being less than 0.2 per cent. 
The sewing machine is one of the most important home labor-saving devices and is much more 
commonly owned today than it was even twenty years ago. Its wider use would seem to 
justify a greater increase in emphasis. 

The statement is frequently made that drafting and pattern making has been receiving 
less emphasis since comm_ercial patterns have become so plentiful. The prominence of draft- 
ing in clothing texts would indicate that the above statement should be qualified. The 
average amount of space given to drafting, which has appeared in 20 of the 38 clothing books, 
has changed from 9 to 12 to 23 per cent, respectively, during the three semi-decades after 
1890. The next five-j-ear period saw the amount decreased to 3 per cent, but it increased to 
8.5 per cent and then fell to 6 per cent in the two following semi-decades. Of the books 
published between 1915 and 1919 a larger proportion contain drafting than do those of 
either the two preceding periods. The two most recent books contain no reference to draft- 
ing. Illustrations have been quite freely used, often occupying nearly as much space as the 
text, which is partly due to the large-sized illustrations required. These textbooks present 
evidence that drafting must still be considered practicable by a considerable number of 
persons. (See Table III.) 

A very different picture is presented in the material concerning commercial patterns and 
their use. The subject has had a more recent origin than did drafting, having been only 
briefly mentioned in the two books published previous to 1908. Since that date there has 
been a consistent growth in the attention paid to the use of such patterns. Each successive 
decade has shown an increase in the number of books, and in the percentage of books pub- 
lished, which include it, and also an increase in the total space devoted to the subject. Gener- 
ous use has been made of illustrations, which average 5 per book, for the decade preceding 
1920. Table IV shows this increase in the space devoted to commercial patterns and the 
part occupied bj- illustrations. This growth has followed a rapid development in the manu- 
facture and use of commercial patterns. 

Remodeling has not been included widely in clothing and textiles work as outlined by 
textbooks. The subject is found in 7 of these 43 texts, but in only one did the amount 
exceed 1 .3 per cent of the total, and 3 had less than 0.5 per cent. The allowance of space 
in the last two books of those studied was 0.6 per cent, the highest average for any of the 
semi-decade periods. One illustration was found in the book published in 1920. In the 



630 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



light of common practice this subject might seem to have been slighted in these textbooks, 
but certain factors may have contributed to the limited space allotted. Careful and wise 
selection of clothes means a reduction in time spent on "making over" garments, an increased 
use of ready-to-wear garments has had a similar effect, and finally, the sewing processes 
used in garment reconstruction duplicate those employed in their construction. 

TABLE III 
Distribution 5y Semi-Decades of Subject Matter Concerning Drafting and Pattern Making in the 

Clothing and Textiles Texts Analyzed 



PERIOD 


NDMBER 
OF BOOKS 


PER CENT OF 

ALL 
CLO. BOOKS 


AVERAGE 

TOTAL 
PER CENT 


AVERAGE 

PER CENT 

TEXT 


AVERAGE 

PER CENT 

ILLUS. 


AVERAGE 
NUMBER 
ILLUS. 


1880-1884 
1885-1889 
1890-1894 
1895-1899 
1900-1904 
1905-1909 
1910-1914* 
1915-1919t 
1920- 


1 

1 

2 
3 
2 
4 

7 


100 

50 
66 
75 
50 
40 
58 


10.65 

8.83 
11.69 
22.74 
3.21 
8.55 
6.00 


6.63 

7.05 
8.26 
17.58 
1.62 
5.23 
4.39 


4.02 

1.78 
3.42 
5.15 
1.59 
3.31 
1.61 


11.0 

5.0 
10.6 
10.2 
8.0 
6.3 
7.7 


Totals 


20 


48.8 


7.96 


5.64 


2.32 




Averages 


6.53 



* 3 books in this period omitted in average because devoted to textiles only, 
t 2 books in this period omitted in average because devoted to textiles only. 



TABLE IV 

Distribution by Semi-Decades of Subject Matter Concerning Commercial Patterns and Their 

Use in Clothing and Textiles Texts Analyzed 



PERIOD 


NUMBER 
OF BOOKS 


PER CENT OF 
CLO. BOOKS 


AVERAGE 
PER CENT 


AVERAGE 

PER CENT 

TEXT 


AVERAGE 

PER CENT 

ILLUS. 


NUMBER 
ILLUS. 


1880-1884 
1885-1889 
1890-1894 
1895-1899 
1900-1904 
1905-1909 
1910-1914* 
1915-1919t 
1920- 


1 
1 

4 
9 
2 


100 
50 

25 
40 
75 
100 


0.20 
0.26 

0.32 
1.78 
2.96 
1.70 


0.20 
0.26 

0.32 
0.75 
1.90 
1.46 


1.04 
1.06 
0.24 


3.5 

6.6 
2.5 


Totak 


18 


43.3 


0.80 


0.54 


0.26 




Averages 


1.4 



* 3 books in this period omitted in average because devoted to textiles only. 
t 2 books in this period omitted in average because devoted to textiles only. 



1922] TEXTBOOKS IN CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 631 

Ecoiumiics of clothing and buying was used to include a number of subdivisions, such as 
discussions of clothing budgets, the selection and purchase of clothing, the Consumers' 
League, and labor conditions in relation to the production and consumption of clothing. 
With two exceptions the introduction of this subject into textbooks might be said to date from 
1912; since then it has been given a widely varjdng proportion of space in nearly two-thirds 
of the books. The exceptions cited were two of the books previously described as having 
been primarily intended for the general consumer. As much as 12 per cent of one book, 
published in 1913, was devoted to these applications of economics, and as little as one-third 
of one per cent of a second book, published in 1918. The subject appears in both textiles 
and clothing books and is found included in the contents of 18 of the 43 studied. Since 1913 
the average percentage per semi-decade has increased, a development most marked in the two 
pubUcations dated since 1919. The illustrations used have occupied a very small proportion 
of space. 

The pronounced increase in the use of ready-to-wear clothing has necessitated a considera- 
tion of all phases of selection quite aside from questions of clothing construction. The 
matter of quaUty, suitability, budget distribution, and similar points have attracted atten- 
tion, especially since thrift has been stressed. Again we find a reflection of the growing 
recognition of the power and responsibiUties of the consumer. 

SUMMARY 

This study has attempted to show the development of subject matter 
in clothing and textiles as determined by textbooks, and to ascertain the 
persistence and recurrence of fundamental topics developed by texts 
in this field. The outstanding facts of Jhe study may be summarized 
as follows: 

1. A large amount of textbook material concerning textiles and cloth- 
ing has been published. The 43 books, which represent the available 
material, have been examined. 

2. As to content and organization, in most cases clothing and textiles 
have been developed separately from other phases of home economics. 
Clothing has occurred alone about as often as it has been combined with 
textiles, while textiles texts have developed during the last decade. The 
subjects which have received major emphasis in the clothing field are, 

(1) sewing processes, (2) garment construction, (3) patterns and draft- 
ing, and (4) the care of clothing; in the textiles field, (1) textile fibers, 

(2) fabrics and their uses, and (3) textile manufacture. 

3. A variety of different grades and kinds of schools have been planned 
for, but the books have been used interchangeably with considerable 
disregard of the purpose for which the text was written, and probably, 
to some extent, of the needs of the users. 

4. The amount of emphasis placed upon the several major topics 
in these textbooks has shown marked fluctuations. These variations 
are not constant for all the topics, and are especially noticeable in the 



632 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

case of patterns, drafting, and draping. The space allotted to sewing 
processes has declined while that devoted to garment construction has 
increased. Textiles has received a greater share of attention in the 
later books. Signiiicant changes have also taken place in the minor 
subdivisions of this subject matter, as shown by the following illustra- 
tions. The sewing machine has been allotted an increasing amount 
of space which would still not seem to be proportional to the actual use 
of the machine. Drafting is given less space but has decreased in amount 
less than popularly supposed. The use of commercial patterns is 
coming to be an important subject, while remodelling is not stressed 
to any appreciable degree. The economics of clothing and buying has 
persisted in spite of noticeable fluctuations, and is increasing in amount. 

5. Illustrations have increased in number and improved in quality. 

6. Indexes and bibliographies are being used more freely, but a sur- 
prisingly large nimiber of these volumes have omitted these as well 
as charts, graphs, and tables, which are only beginning to be used. 

7. The dates of copyright of these books range over five decades, 
the earliest having been pubhshed in 1882 and the latest in 1921. 

8. The size of these books, measured in 350 word pages, has averaged 
200 pages. In general the total size of the books has tended to increase. 
The size of page has shown relatively little change, measured by the 
number of words per page, the average for the whole group being approxi- 
mately 350 words. 

The extent to which the data reported herein may be used as a guide 
in the preparation of new texts, or in the evaluation of texts now in use, 
may be limited until there are available adequate analyses of those 
problems pertaining to textiles and clothing which are included in 
homemaking and related occupations. 



THE BOY'S AND GIRL'S ACHIEVEMENT CLUB 

Leading educators urge a closer connection of the school with the home, the community, 
and the outside world. An extension program of achievement club work offers an admirable 
means of making this connection. 

The best teachers feel strongly the need of meeting boys and girls on a footing of human 
companionship and fellowship in addition to the usual classroom footing. Working as a 
leader with an Achievement Club develops this companionship and fellowship in a very 
marked degree. Association in work and play is rich in humanizing and socializing results. 

Character is the ultimate goal of all education. Character is the result, not so much of 
knowledge as of action. A good man or woman is the result of numberless good acts. 
Achievement work forms habits of good acting. — Frank 0. Kreager in the Journal of Edtication. 



EDITORIAL 

To Members of the American Home Economics Association: 

Your Executive Committee is very happy to announce that Miss 
Sweeny has promised to act as the Executive Secretary of the Associa- 
tion until the next annual meeting. The needs of the Association are so 
clearly urgent in certain directions that the Committee has asked Miss 
Sweeny to adopt a definite program of work rather than to accept the 
general responsibilities which are usually implied in an executive secre- 
taryship. She has been asked (1) to promote the organization and affili- 
ation of states not yet organized and to help state already affiliated 
with their programs of work; (2) to further the legislative program of the 
Association and to serve on the Women's Joint Congressional Committee; 

(3) to make such contacts with associations having related interests as 
may seem desirable for the development of our activities. 

The Executive Committee requests that each affiliated state, through 
its president, send to Miss Sweeny at the earUest possible moment the 
following information: (1) the date of the next meeting; (2) the kind of 
help, if any, needed by the state; (3) names of persons in neighboring 
unorganized states on whom we can count to promote state affiliation; 

(4) a statement of the professional interests represented in the member- 
ship of the state association. The office of the executive secretary will 
be maintained for the present with the Journal Office at 1211 Cathedral 
Street, Baltimore. Miss Sweeny wUl also arrange for desk space in 
Washington to facilitate making the proper contacts there. 

The program of work outlined for the executive secretary requires 
the active support of every member of the Association. Can we not set 
as our goals for the year (1) affiliation for every state, (2) fifty per cent 
increase in membership in states already affiHated, (3) a subscription to 
the Journal from every member, (4) support of the financial plans for 
imderwriting the executive secretary, (5) active interest in the program 
of work adopted at the Corvallis meeting (See November Joxtrnal, p. 
585) especially in making a study of organizations in the state with which 
we should work. 

Alice F. Blood, 

President. 



633 



634 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The Section of Social and Economic Sciences of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science extends, through its 
chairman, Colonel Henry S. Graves, dean of the School of Forestry, Yale 
University, an invitation to all members of the American Home Econom- 
ics Association to attend the sessions of the section at the Christmas 
meeting in Boston. The program of the section will have as its theme 
the conservation of our natural resources. Inasmuch as Colonel Graves 
hopes to interpret the meaning of our natural resources in terms of 
family as well as industrial wehare, the session will be of great interest 
to home economics women who are thinking along economic lines. A 
special leaflet giving details of the program may be obtained from our 
Association office. 

The Bureau of Home Economics. In his stimulating address 
before the American Home Economics Association during its annual 
convention at Corvallis, the Honorable C. W. Pugsley, Assistant Secre- 
tary, U. S. Department of Agriculture, read the following annoimcement 
from the Honorable Henry C. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture: 

In addition to what you may say concerning our extension work in your 
address before the American Home Economics Association, I wish you would 
say to the members that we have in mind to greatly strengthen the scientific 
work of the Department as it may be related to home economics. Ultimately 
I have in view making the home economics work an independent bureau, 
ranking with the other bureaus of the Department, and placing at the head 
of it a woman of executive ability, thorough scientific training, and a broad 
and sympathetic understanding of what is needed to make such a bureau 
most helpful to the women of the land. I am quite sure that out of such a 
bureau wLU come an increasing fund of helpful information which can be taken 
to the homes through our extension activities. 

Home economics women will be particularly interested in extracts from 
a letter from Mr. Pugsley to the Journal in reply to a request for 
additional information: 

The Secretary expects to ask the next Congress to approve the appoint- 
ment of a Director of Extension Work in order to secure a closer coordination 
of all extension activities. A year ago Congress approved the appointment of 
a Director of Scientific Work and a Director of Regulatory Work. The work 
of the Department of Agriculture naturally and logically falls into these three 
divisions. 



1922] EDITORIAL 635 

At the present time the Office of Cooperative Extension Work, which 
administers the work of county agents, home demonstration agents, and 
boys and girls club agents, is placed in the States Relations Service. The 
Office of Experiment Stations is also in this Ser\-ice as is also the Office of 
Home Economics. In the reorganization it is proposed to put the Office of 
Experiment Stations under the Director of Scientific Work, the Office of 
Cooperative Extension Work under the Director of Extension Work, and to 
make of the Office of Home Economics a Bureau of Home Economics with a 
chief in charge who will be on a par with the chiefs of other bureaus, such as 
the Bureau of Animal Industry, the Bureau of Plant Industry, the Bureau 
of Agricultural Economics. 

This is a very logical plan because investigation in home economics is a 
special line of work. Home economics constitutes, in fact, a subject matter 
division and should be treated as such. When it comes to extending the 
work of the subject matter division the work must all be correlated so that a 
balanced agricultural program results. This we propose to do through the 
reorganized extension work of the Department. Every subject matter divi- 
sion, including home economics, will have a part in the planning of the agri- 
cultural extension program. 

So far Congress has appropriated its extension moneys for extension work 
in agriculture and home economics among the rural people of the United 
States. Undoubtedly as the science of home economics becomes better 
developed, Congress will see the necessity of extending the work to city 
women as well. The appropriations made to the Department for home 
economics investigational work do not confine the investigations to those of 
interest only to rural women but permit investigations in the entire field of 
home economics. 

It is the Secretary's plan to place a woman at the head of the new Bureau 
of Home Economics if Congress approves the proposed change. This woman 
must naturally be one of thorough scientific training and of executive ability. 
He is anxious to get the best woman in the United States for this sort of work 
if she can be induced to take the position. 

So far as making any announcement of the details of the organization of 
the Bureau I think you will readily see that this cannot be done at this time, 
for details have not been discussed. It will be necessary to use the Office 
of Home Economics as the foundation of the work. What changes are made 
in the subdivisions of this office, or in establishing new offices within the new 
Bureau of Home Economics, naturally should be made after the new chief 
is placed in charge. In general, about all that can be said is that the proposed 
Bureau of Home Economics should cover the field of home economics in as 
thorough a manner as is possible under the appropriation which Congress 
may make. 



636 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Tabloid Vitamins. The novelty of the vitamin theory has made 
it popular with the general public from the first. If one can procure 
these necessary substances in some easy form which does not disturb 
modern man's fixed habits of food selection, one piece of educational 
work has been lifted from the load of the nutrition teacher. The ad- 
vertising propaganda of commercial vitamin preparations would indi- 
cate that this has been accomplished. 

Two groups of investigators'- working independently, have measured 
the potency of several such products of seeming popularity. Their 
efficiency as carriers of vitamins B and C has been studied by noting 
the effect of their addition to experimental diets of rats, guinea pigs, 
and pigeons. The conclusion of both groups is that these tablet forms 
of commercial preparations contain so little of the vitamin claimed as 
to be worthless and are furthermore frauds because of extravagant 
statements on the labels. 

The power of suggestion has been known to help along the work of 
many a medicine. If these vitamin tablets are effective at all when 
used by man even though their effectiveness can be said to lie only in 
the faith of the user, perhaps the dollar is well spent; but encouraging 
the public to think that it can obtain vitamins and health in this fashion 
is a barrier to the teaching of sane food habits. The place to secure 
vitamins is the grocery, the dairy, and the market, not the drug store. 

Sybil Woodrtjff. 

Correction. The author of "The Teaching Load," printed in 
the October Journal, regrets that, due to vmavoidable delay in the 
return of the corrected proof, certain reports were omitted and one 
erroneous statement was made. 

The staff for Colorado Agricultural College should read — 7 full time, 
2 part time, student assistants. University of Minnesota registration 
should read — total 15726; women 6133; home economics majors 358; 
per cent of women in home economics 5.8; ratio of teaching staff to home 
economics students 1:14. The Utah State Legislature in 1921 removed 
from home economics, in the University, restrictions wliich confined 
work of the course to such as was demanded for teacher training purposes, 
which was construed as freshmen and sophomore work. 

' Hess, J. H., Aloore, J. J., Calvin, J. K. Experimental studies with proprietary vitamin 
products. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 78, 1441 (IMay 13, 1922). 

- McCoUum, E. V., and Simmonds, N. Potency of commercial vitamine preparations. 
Jour. .^mer. Med. Assn., 78, 1953 (June 24, 1922). 



1922] OPEN FORTJM 637 

OPEN FORUM 

A Christmas Project. The Christmas project of Duluth Denfeld 
High School is described in detail in order that other schools may consider 
such an undertaking in making their oum Christmas plans. — Editor. 

Owing to the financial crisis, school opinion pointed to the repair of 
what material could be gathered together, rather than taking a cash 
donation for the purchase of new clothing, toys, and food. There then 
arose the problem of gathering together old clothing, hats, coats, shoes, 
broken toys, kiddie kars, and dolls; repairing them and distributing 
them to the homes where they were most needed. 

One of the school committees is a welfare committee composed of five 
members of the faculty and a group of students. This committee 
was divided into sub-committees to collect old materials, repair them, 
take charge of free will offerings, gather names of needy families, and 
distribute gifts. 

Huge boxes were placed in conspicuous places at the two entrances of 
the school, so that students might deposit their gifts quietly and easily 
as soon as they entered the building. Every day there was a box over- 
flowing with a heterogeneous mass of shoes, sleds, skates, dolls, rubbers, 
coats, sweaters, etc. It was the duty of one student member of the com- 
mittee to unpack the boxes, separate the gifts, and bring each group to 
its proper department for repair. 

All of the wooden toys were repaired in the woodwork department, 
and repainted by the members of the art department. Many a cast off 
kiddie kar and sled was made just as durable and just as attractive as 
the shiny new ones offered for sale in the down town toy shops. 

Wigs of real hair were appHed to dolls which had lost their own hair 
in the struggle of hfe with their three year old mistresses. The blush 
of youth was restored again to the cheeks of the dolls from which Fido 
had licked the paint the summer before. Such a healthy looking group 
of dolls was never seen before. 

One of the local stores donated a huge box of broken toys and dolls. 
These toys were new but had been damaged in transit. They were soon 
restored to their former fitness and beauty. 

The sewing department volunteered to repair the clothing and to 
dress the doUs. Since there was not enough class time to do both of 
these things the girls volunteered to dress the doUs at home. The 
clothing repair work was a big job and fitted in nicely with the course of 



638 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

study which allows for some time to be spent on care and repair of cloth- 
ing. The whole sewing room was converted into a great sewing shop, 
laundry, and dry cleaning establishment. Before class each day the 
instructor went over the garments to be repaired and labeled each one 
with a list of needed repairs. When the students assembled, each girl 
was given one garment ; she read on the label the thing to be done to it, 
took her thread from a general supply table, and went to work im- 
mediately. At the end of ten days, we had a huge rack of suits, coats, 
and dresses, all cleaned, mended, pressed, and ready for distribution. 
In addition, there were dozens of suits of imderwear, sixty pairs of 
stockings, several sweaters, and a dozen caps. 

Sixth grade students made a score of cloth cats and dogs. Pieces of 
blue working shirts, good portions of old turkish towels, and gray outing 
flannel were used for the covering. Features were done in a contrasting 
mercerized cotton. They were stuffed with sawdust from the Manual 
Training department. 

The last day of school, a free will offering was taken either in money 
or food. The result was fifty quarts of canned fruits and vegetables, 
forty glasses of jelly and conserve, flour, breakfast food, sugar, and a 
silver offering which was spent for coal, sugar, flour, potatoes, some 
underwear and hose. Every basket contained a piece of meat, potatoes, 
flour, breakfast food, jelly or canned fruit, clothing, and toys. 

It was not difficult to find names of needy families. A small mail box 
was put in the hall into which a student could drop a slip of paper con- 
taining the name of the family, number of children, ages, and needs if 
possible. This hst of eighty-five families was carefully checked with the 
Salvation Army, Associated Charities, and the Goodwill Society to 
avoid duplication. 

The Friday before Christmas, the distribution committee, consisting 
of two teachers and a number of students, packed boxes, fitting the 
clothing, toys, and food to the needs of the family. Boys who drove cars 
saw to it that the baskets were dehvered. 

It was estimated that the students of Duluth Denfeld gathered to- 
gether about six hundred dollars worth of Christmas gifts and had made 
eighty-five families happy on Christmas day. 

Bernetta Seipel, 
Duluth Denfeld High School, 
Duluth, Minn. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



A Nursery School Experiment. By Har- 
riet M. Johnson and Carmen S. Reuben, 
Bureau of Educational Experiments, 144 
West 13tli St., New York, 1922, pp. 82. 
$.75. 

This report, descriptive of the first three 
years of the Nursery School established by 
the Bureau of Educational Experiments, is 
written by Harriet M. Johnson, Director 
of the Nursery School, with a section on 
music by Carmen S. Reuben, a member of 
the Nursery staflE. 

Largely because of their intimate contact 
with the children in the Nursery School, 
their report is as refreshingly free from 
statistical tedium as it is full of human 
interest — the sayings and doings of a group 
of eight children between fifteen months 
and three years of age, who, in the thirty 
illustrations vivifying the report, make the 
irresistible appeal of childhood at play. 

Why the Bureau wants such young chil- 
dren is answered by Mrs. Lucy Sprague 
Mitchell in the introduction. She says that, 
unlike the Day Nursery or the English type 
of Nursery School, the Bureau's Nursery 
School was not established primarily to meet 
a social or an economic need, but rather an 
educational need, that is, the need (1) to 
study the educational factors in the environ- 
ment of small children, and (2) to gather, 
for purposes of research, scientific data con- 
cerning their growth. 

This does not mean that the physical 
needs of the children are neglected, for, 
as a matter of fact, they are most scrupu- 
ously attended to in conformity with the 
most advanced practice of the medical 
profession, but that is not the field in which 
the Bureau's experimentation is taking place. 
Its experiment has to do with the equipment 
and situations which, in their reaction on 
the children, lead to muscular coordination, 
to experimentation, to purposeful activities, 
to emotional stability. The record of this 
interplay between the children and their 



environment forms the scientific data which 
the research staff of the Bureau is using to 
the end that the knowledge gained may be 
converted into an educational procedure 
more fully adapted to the needs of nursery 
children. 

The writer of this review knows of no 
other educational experiment in this country 
where children under three years of age are 
placed in so homelike an environment 
adapted to the needs of childhood; where 
there is such close cooperation between 
members of the teaching staff and speciaUsts; 
where the records kept are so human and 
yet of so exact a nature that it is possible 
for both mothers in the home and scientists 
in the laboratory to make use of them. 

Because of the home, as well as the scien- 
tific, aspect of this Nursery School, it is, 
without doubt, destined to have a wide- 
spread influence upon the pre-school groups 
of children fast forming throughout the 
country. Particularly is this true in regard 
to demonstration nurseries for child care 
and training which are being established 
in connection with Homemaking Courses. 
For these nurseries this Nursery School 
may well serve, either in whole or in part, 
as a pattern. 

It is plain that, with leaders in this new 
educational field eagerly looking for scien- 
tific data to guide them, this report of 
the Nursery School becomes of immediate 
value. It also has permanent value as 
source material of an unusually reliable 
nature, not only because of the efficiency 
of those conducting the experiment, but 
because they are able to so control the con- 
ditions under which they are working as 
to keep their educational aim paramount. 
In short, by publishing this descripdve 
report of its Nursery School the Bureau 
of Educational Experiments has made a 
valuable contribution in a new educational 
field. 

Elizabeth Jenkins. 
639 



640 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Transactions of the Twelfth Annual Meeting 
of the American Child Hygiene Association. 
American Child Hygiene Assn., 532 I7th 
Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. $3.00. 
The addresses, discussions, and reports 
presented at the twelfth annual meetiag 
are included in this volume. The following 
divisions will give an idea of the value of 
these proceedings to the home economics 
worker: Medical, Nursing and Social Work, 
The Child of Pre-school Age, Coordination 
of Child Health Activities, Health Educa- 
tion, Problems and Opportunities of Lay 
Directors of Private Organizations, Rural 
Problems. 

Modern Millinery. By Hester B. Lyon. 

New York: Millinery Trade Publishing 

Co., 1922, pp. 200. $3.00. 

In this book, Miss Lyon has emphasized 
the points of workmanship and artistic 
feeling, which, in view of her extensive class 
room and shop experience, she has found 
to be essential to successful millinery work. 
WTiile sufficient attention has been given 
to detail to insure correct technique, the 
author has succeeded in permeating the 
book with an appreciation of the broader 
and more subtle phases of the subject. 

The contents of the book should prove 
to be of permanent value to both teachers 



and milliners as they deal with the under- 
lying principles of millinery, regardless of 
changing styles. The problems chosen are 
typical, the subject matter is clearly and 
adequately stated, and the illustrations 
given are unusually helpful. In short, the 
book is a masterly treatment of the construc- 
tion processes of millinery. 

H.A.RRIET J. Hewitt, 
High School of Commerce, 
Springfield, Mass. 

Calcium Requirements of Children. By 
H. C. Sherman and Edith Hawley. A 
reprint of the article in the September 
JouRNAX. 10 cents a copy; 10% discount 
on orders of 20 or more. Order from the 
JOURNAI. Office. 

Nutrition. The two pamphlets, "Height 
and Weight as an Index of Nutrition," 
and "Nutrition and Adequate Food Allow- 
ances for the Family," referred to in the 
July JoiTRNAL as obtainable from the 
A. I. C. P., are also distributed by the 
Brooklyn Bureau of ChariUes, Charity Or- 
ganization Society of New York, United 
Hebrew Charities of New York, New York 
Nutrition Council. The pamphlets are 
25 cents a copy. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Food and Nutrition 

Hart, E. B., Steenbock, H. Hoppert, C. A. and Humphrey, G. C. Dietary Factors Influenc- 
ing Calcium Assimilation. H. The Comparative Efficiency of Dry and Green Alfalfa 
in Maintaining Calcium and Phosphorus Equilibrium in Milking Cows. /. Biol. 
Chem., 1922, 53: 21-30. 

Heiberg, P. The Diet of the Different Grades of Society in Denmark. J. Hyg., 1921, 20: 
366-370. 

HiU, E. and Bloor, W. R. Fat Excretion. 7. BiW. CAewz., 1922, 53: 171-178. 

Hiscock, I. V. Milk Inspection. Am. J. Pub. Health, 1922, 12: 577-591. 

Holt, L. E. The Practical Application of the Results of Vitamin Studies. /. Am. Med. 
Assoc., 1922, 79: 129-132. 

Holt, L. E. and Fales, H. L. The Food Requirements of Children. HI. Fat Require- 
ments. Am. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 471-480; IV. Carbohydrate Require- 
ment. Ibid., 1922, 24: 44-55. 

Hubbard, R. S. and Nicholson, S. T. The Acetonuria of Diabetis. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 
53: 209-230. 



1922] BIBLIOGR.'iPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 641 

Huenekins, E. J.: The Importance of Breast Feeding. Mother and Child, 1922, 3: 270-271. 
Johnson. J. M. and Hooper, C. W. Comparative Antiscorbutic Values of Milk. U. S. 

Pub Health Kept., 1922, 37: 989-1021. 
Jones, D. B. and Waterman, H. C. Studies on the Digestibility of Proteins in vitro. III. 

On the Chemical Nature of the Nutritional Deficiencies of Arachin. J. Biol. Chem., 

1922 52: 357-366. 
Joslin, E. P Treatment of Diabetis Mellitus. Bast. Med. Surg. J., 1922, 186: 833-852. 
Kimball. O P. Prevention of Simple Goiter in Man. Atn. J. Med. Sci., 1922, 163: 634r-648. 
Koehne, M. CoSperative Child Nutrition Service. Mother and Child, 1922, 3: 249-255. 
Ladd, JI. .Applied Dietetics in Out Patient Departments. Arch. Fed., 1922, 39: 349-353. 
Levine, V. E., McCoUum, E. V. and Simmonds, N. Glacial Acetic Acid as a Solvent for the 

Antineuritic Substance. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 53: 7-11. 
McCoUum, E. V. and Simmonds, N. The Potency of Commercial Vitamin Preparations. 

J. Am. Mid. Assoc, 1922, 78: 1953-1957. 
McCoUum, E. V.. Simmonds, N., Becker, J. E., and Shipley, P. G. Studies on Experi- 
mental Rickets XXI. An Experimental Demonstration of the Existence of a Vitamin 

which Promotes Calcium Deposition. Johns Hopkins Bosp. Bull., 1922, 33:229. 
McCoUum, E. V., Simmonds, N., Kinney, E. M. and Grieves, C. J. The Relation of Nutri- 
tion to Tooth Development and Tooth Preservation. Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., 1922, 

33: 202-215. 
McLester, J. Influence of Rigid Salt Restriction in Diet ia Chronic Nephritis. Am. J. 

Med. Set., 1922, 163: 794-797. 
Mellanby, E. Some Common Defects of Diet and Their Pathological Significance. Brit. 

Med. J., 1922, 1; 831-833. 
Mitchell, H. H. The Necessity of Balancing Dietaries with Respect to Vitamines. Science, 

1922, 56: 34-37. 
MitcheU, H. H., Nevens, W. B., and KendaU, F. E. The Relation between the Endogenous 

Catabolism and the Non-Protein Constituents of the Tissues. J. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52: 

417-437. 
Mori, S. Primary Changes in Eyes of Rats which Result from Deficiency of Fat Soluble 

A. in Diet. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 79: 197-200. 
Nelson, N. E., Lamb, A. R. and Heller. V. G. The Vitamin Requirement of Various Species 
of Animals III. The Production and Cure of Xerophthalmia in the Suckling. In. 
Am. J. Diseases Children, 1922, 23: 518-520. 
Orton, C. R., McCoUum, E. V. and Simmonds, N. Observations on the Presence of the 

Antineuritic Substance, Water Soluble B in ChlorophyU — Free Plants. /. Biol. Chem., 

1922, 53: 1-6. 
Palmer, L. S. The Influence of Various Antiseptics on the Activity of Lipase. /. Am. Chem. 

Soc, 1922, 44: 1527-1538. 
Proudfit, F. T. A Survey of the Health, Habits and Customs of the Mountain White and 

Negro Race in the South. Hosp. Soc. Serv., 1922,6: 15-23. 
Reed, R. Dietary Customs of Italians. Hosp. Soc. Serv., 1922, 5: 380-385. 
Robinson, C. S. The Hydrogen Ion Concentration of Human Feces. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 

52: 445-466. 
Robison, R. Value of Gelatin in Relation to the Nitrogen Requirements of Man. 

Biochem. J., 1922, 16: 111-130. 
Sherman, H. C. and Crocker, J. Growth and Reproduction on Simplified Food Supply. 

III. The ESiciency of Growth as Influenced by the Proportion of Milk in the Diet 

/. Biol. Chem., 1922, 53: 49-52. 
Sherman, H. C. and Muhlfeld, M. Growth and Reproduction upon Simplified Food Supply. 

II. Influence of Food upon Mother and Young during the Lactation Period. /. Biol. 

Chem., 1922, 53: 41-47. 



642 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Shipley, P. C, Park, E. A., McColIum, E. V. and Kinney, E. M. Studies on Experimental 
Rickets. XX. The Effect of Strontium Administration on the Histological Structure 
of the Growing Bones. Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull. 1922, 52: 216-220. 

Smith, C. H. and Merritt, K. K. The Rate of Secretion of Breast Milk. Arch. Fed., 1922, 
39: 371-373. 

Sure, B. Amino Acids in Nutrition V. Nutritive Value of Edestin, Custine and Lysine 
as Growth Limiting Factors in that Protein. Am. J. Physiol., 1922, 61: 1-13. 

Talbot, F. B., Sisson, W. R., Moriarity, M. E. and Dabymple, A. J. The Basal Metab- 
olism of Prematurity. Arch. Ped., 1922, 39: 374-376. 

Tanner, F. W. and Davis, E. Some Observations on the Sanitary Condition of Confections. 
Am. J. Pub. Healih, 1922, 12: 605-607. 

Violle, H. and Merrill, T. C. Recent Applications of the Principles of Nutrition. Am. .1 . 
Pub. Healih, 1922, 12: 567-574. 

Wliipple. G. H. The Origin and Significance of the Constituents of Bile. Physiol. Rev., 
1922,2: 440-459. 

Wickett, A. D. Dietetics from the Medical Point of View. Mod. Hosp., 1922, 18: 546-548. 

Wilder, R. M. Optimal Food Mixtures for Diabedc Patients. /. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 
78: 1878-1884. 

Wilder, R. M. and Winter, M. D. The Threshold of Ketogenesis. /. Biol. Chem., 1922, 52 : 
393-401. 

Zilva, S. S. and Drummond, J. C. Fish Liver Oils and Other Highly Potent Sources of Vita- 
min A with a Note on the Relative Influence of Cod-Li\er Oil and Butter on the Deposi- 
tion of Calcium in the Bone of Growing Rats. Lancet, 192?, 202: 1243, 1244. 

Miscellaneous 

Baker, S. J. School Health Supervision Based upon Age and Sex Incidence of Physical 

Defects. Am. J. Pub. Health, 1922, 12: 465-475. 
Bartlett, B. H. Rural Problems of ChUd Hygiene. Mother and Child, 1922, 3: 308-314. 
Beard, J. H. Contribution of Student Health Services to Public Health. /. Am. Med. 

Assoc, 1922, 79: 274-277. 
CampbeU, E. C. The Records of a Food CUnic. Mod. Hosp., 1922, 18: 517-520. 
Fales, W. The Periods in Furniture Design. Good Housekeeping, 1922, V. 75, No. 2: 42, 43. 
Gibbs, W. S. Greater Recognition of the Dietitian. Am. Fd. J., 1922, V. 17, No. 5: 7, 8. 
Goodspeed, H. C. The Part Time Giri. School and Society, 1922, 15: 489-494. 
Grossman, J. The Care of the Feet During Childhood. Nation's Health, 1922, 4: 338-342. 
Hull, C. and West, C. J. Distribution of Graduate Fellowship between the Arts and the 

Sciences. School and Society, 1922, 15: 424-428. 
Jackson, L. E. Bacterial Action of Dr>' Cleaning. Am. J. Pub. Health, 1922, 12: 507-508. 
Kaiser, A. D. Effect of Tonsillectomy on General Health in Five Thousand Children. 

J. Am. Med. Assoc, 1922, 78: 1869-1872. 
Kraus, J. The Care of Your Silver Service. Mod. Hosp., 1922, 18: 552, 553. 
Lemon, H. B. Forecasting Failures in College Classes. School Reiienv, 1922, 30: 382-387. 
Taylor, A. E. Child Feeding Activities of the ReUef Organization in Europe. Mother 

and Child. 1922, 3: 291-294. 
Thomdike, E. L. The Permanence of School Learning. School and Society, 1922, 15: 

625-627. 
Van Ingen. P. The Babies of 1921. Mother and Child, 1922, 3: 295-298. 
Weber, J. J. Financial Rewards of Dietitians. Mod. Hosp., 1922, 18: 544-545. 
Weill-Halle, B. The Franco-American School of Infant Hygiene. Mother and Child, 1922, 

3: 301-305. 
Williams, W. T. Laundering for a Hospital Group. Mod. Hosp., 1922, 19: 27-30. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The American Dietetic Association held 

its Fifth Annual Convention at the New 
Willard Hotel, Washington, D. C, October 
16-18. The members of the Association 
were the guests of Johns Hopkins Hospital 
on October 19, and 250 persons went over 
to Baltimore for this occasion. 

The convention was well attended and the 
program was so arranged as to interest the 
various groups at the meeting. Dietitians 
whose work is dieto-therapy had the privi- 
lege of hearing excellent addresses by Dr. 
Elliott P. Joslin, Boston; Dr. Philip L. 
March and Dr. L. H. Newbury, University 
of Michigan; Dr. Wm. S. McCann and Mrs. 
Agnes O'Dea, Johns Hopkins Hospital. 

Nutrition and social workers were partic- 
ularly interested in addresses by Dr. Mary 
S. Rose, Teachers College; Dr. Alfred Hess, 
New York; Laura Comstock, Rochester; 
Lucy Gillett, A. I. C. P. New York; Anna 
L. DePIanter, Child Federation of Philadel- 
phia; Daisy Treen, Boston; Dr. E. V. 
McCoUum, Johns Hopkins University; Ida 
M. Cannon, Massachusetts General Hospi- 
tal; and Dr. Walter Cannon, Harvard 
Medical School. 

Special papers for administrative dietitians 
on food service and food costs were presented 
by Marjory Hulsizer, Barnes Hospital; 
Mary Lindsley, Grace Dodge Hotel; Henry 
C. Wright, New York; Laura M. Piper, 
New York; Dr. Leroy E. Parkins, Peter 
Bent Brigham Hospital; Dr. J. W. Hayes, 
New York. Emma Gunther and Ray 
Balderston, Teachers College, told of their 
work in China and of the possibilities there 
for dietitians. 

The work of the Association during the 
year was presented at the section sessions. 
Breta M. Luther and Rose Straka reported a 
survey on courses for student dietitians in 
hospitals in the U. S. and Canada having 
more than 100 beds and an accredited train- 
ing school for nurses, and a survey of courses 
in dietetics for student nurses in 20 selected 
institutions. Dr. Ruth Wheeler discussed 



the findings of these reports as they bear on 
the organization and management of a 
dietary department. Octavia Hall pre- 
sented a survey of food costs per capita in 
50 selected institutions. Gertrude Gates 
Mudge presented the report of an intensive 
survey of Italian dietaries in New York, 
Boston, Detroit, and Memphis. 

At the dinner meeting the Association 
had as its distinguished speakers Surgeon- 
General Ireland, U. S. Army; Asst. Surgeon- 
General Smith, U. S. Public Health; Major 
Stimson, Army Nurse Corps; Miss Noyes, 
A. R. C; Miss Minnegerode, U. S. Public 
Health; Mrs. Corsette and Colonel Whit- 
ledge, Veterans Bureau. 

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., enter- 
tained the Association and Washington 
guests at tea at the Grace Dodge Hotel. 
The entire meeting was characterized by 
the keenest interest and enthusiasm and 
indicates a future of work useful to the 
profession, on behalf of this vigorous young 
organization. 

American Child HygleneAsscciation. A 

program of much interest to all Home Eco- 
nomics administrators, teachers, and students 
was presented at the Thirteenth Annual 
Meeting of the American Child Hygiene 
Association In Washington on October 12th 
to 14th. 

As an indication of the increased recog- 
nition of nutrition as a factor in all phases 
of health work today it is very gratifying 
to find that the topic for discussion of the 
first morning of the meeting was The Train- 
ing in Nutrition Needed for Child Hygiene 
Workers. Dr. Alice Blood presided at this 
session. 

The program was as follows: Some of the 
Problems in Training Nutrition Workers, 
Flora Rose; Nutrition Training for General 
Field Workers, Edna M'hite; Training 
Needed by Nutrition Workers for Public 
School Service, Emma Dolfinger; Discus- 
sion, Margaret Sawyer and Katherine 
Pritchett. 

643 



644 



THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Summary of the main points in papers 
and discussions: 

1. The training of nutrition workers as a 
problem really exists. Our training schools 
have given a fundamental knowledge of 
nutrition, but have failed to give a knowl- 
edge of nutrition which functions. 

2. A functioning knowledge of nutrition 
should include ability in and knowledge of 
administration and organization of com- 
munity resources. 

3. It is desirable to give instruction in 
nutrition to pubUc health nurses and social 
workers. Such field workers require, how- 
ever, the supervision of a more highly trained 
specialist in nutrition. 

4. We must give a clear idea of feeding 
a normal child, especially to the nursing 
profession. 

5. A nutrition class should not be con- 
ducted as a clinic. It should be a beacon 
light to show the way to health for everyone. 

6. Before we can give nutrition to the 
community and to the school we must 
educate our educators as to the meaning 
and value of nutrition work. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Association of Land-Grant Colleges, with 
Louise Stanley as Chairman, met in Wash- 
ington the week of November twentieth to 
discuss administrative problems. A report 
will appear in the next number of tlie 

JOURKAL. 

The General Federation of Women's 
Clubs has established permanent head- 
quarters at 1734 N. St. N. W., Washmgton, 
D. C. 

American Association of University 
Women. Ruth Hawthorne French has been 
elected to succeed Mrs. Martin as Executive 
Secretary. R. Louise Fitch has been 
appointed to direct the membership cam- 
paign. Miss French and Miss Fitch have 
established offices at association head- 
quarters in Washington. 

Women's Foundation for Health. The 

delegates from the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association to the House of Dele- 



gates of the Women's Foundation for Health, 
New York City, November 21 and 22, were 
Mrs. Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers College, 
Columbia University, Secretary; Elizabeth 
Condit, Pratt Institute; Annie Macleod, 
Vassar College; Mrs. J. B. Short, President 
of the Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York. 

The Executive Secretary. The announce- 
ment of Miss Sweeny's acceptance of the 
Executive Secretaryship is made in the 
editorial pages of this issue of the Jocrnal. 
Miss Sweeny has already made tentative 
plans for meetings with all the unaffiliated 
states, and has completed her November 
itinerary as follows: 

November 4, Detroit: Conference with Miss 
White regarding the program of the mid- 
year meeting. 

November 6, East Lansing: Addressed the 
Women's Club. 

Conference with Miss Gettemy, President 
Michigan Home Economics Association. 

November 8 and 9, Milwaukee: Addressed 
the Teacher's Institute at the invitation of 
Miss Babcock, City Supervisor of Home 
Economics. 

Addressed the students at Milwaukee- 
Downer College at the invitation of Miss 
West, Director of Home Economics. 

Conference with the Council of the 
Wisconsin Home Economics Association. 

Addressed the Home Economics Section 
of the Wisconsin Teachers Association. 

November 10, Chicago: Conference with 
Dr. Blunt and Program Committee regarding 
annual meeting. 

November 11, Ames: Conference with 
Iowa Home Economics Association regard- 
ing the completion of affiliation and plans 
for work. 

November 14-lS, Manhattan: Conference 
with the Kansas Home Economics Associa- 
tion. 

November 16-17, Kansas City, Missouri: 
Conference with the Executive Committee 
of the Missouri Home Economics Associa- 
tion. 

November 20-22, Washington: Meeting of 
the Association of Land-Grant Colleges. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



645 



November 2S, Syracuse: Addressed the 
New York Home Economics Association. 

N member 30, Detroit: Mid-year meeting of 
the American Home Economics Association. 

College Entrance Credits In Commercial 
Subjects. In consideration of the increas- 
ing number of students in commercial 
classes in secondary schools, and of the in- 
creasing demands of industry and commerce 
for better trained personnel, the com- 
mittee, appointed at the second Commercial 
Education Dinner Conference held by the 
United States Bureau of Education in con- 
junction with the Vocational Education 
Association of the Middle West, recom- 
mended to that association, for endorsement, 
the following: 

1. A declaration of poUcy which will best 
encourage and enable students to continue 
in higher institutions their preparation for 
business, thus assuring to industry and 
commerce a constant and adequate supply of 
efficient personnel, trained in particular for 
supervisory and management positions; and 
to this end that secondary schools and col- 
leges and universities, working jointly 
through customary agencies, effect such a 
revision and articulation of secondary com- 
mercial education with higher education as 
will achieve this object. 

2. That the commercial course in secon- 
dary schools include the three following 
sequences: English, social sciences, and 
mathematics and science (commercial geog- 
raphy may be offered as a part of the 
mathematics-science sequence if not pre- 
sented in the social science group); that a 
minimum of three miits be offered in each 
of these sequences. 

Note: One unit of business English may 
be offered in the English sequence. One 
unit in United States history and civics 
shall be included in the social science 
sequence. Social science may include: in- 
dustrial history, commercial geography, 
commercial law, salesmanship, and eco- 
nomics. One unit in commercial arithmetic 
may be offered in the mathematics-science 
sequence. 

3. And further, that whenever elected at 
least two units must be taken in any one of 



the following technique groups : (a) account- 
ing, (b) secretarial, (c) merchandising. 

The Association to Promote Proper 
Housing for Girls, through its Bureau of 
Rooming and Boarding Houses, refuses to 
recommend any girl under twenty-five years 
of age to a house which does not contain a 
parlor for the reception of guests. Provision 
of a parlor has been included in the set of 
standards adopted by the Hostess Club 
made up of landladies registered with the 
association. 

Other standards adopted for the benefit 
of both the guest and the hostess determine 
the rate of rent in regard to location of 
house, size, position, and furnishings of the 
room; valuation of property and overhead 
expenses; method of payment; rates for 
visiting guests; regulations covering use of 
electric iron; care of room; and provision of 
linen, bed covering, and other accessories. 
The Hostess Club meets once a month to 
foster cooperation among it members iind 
to keep its standard up to the minute. 

A study of Hving conditions made by 
the association resulted in the organization 
of self-governing Girls' Community Clubs 
in rooming sections of the city. Sunday 
teas to introduce new members, card even- 
ings, and hiking parties are some of the 
social activities provided. 

AnlUn Dyes. The first attempt to stand- 
ardize American anilin dyes used as stains 
in bacteriological work was made by the 
Society of American Bacteriologists. With 
the assistance of certain dealers in biological 
stains they have been working on the 
matter for about a year and find that Ameri- 
can manufacturers have met the bacteri- 
ologist's needs in an admirable way. The 
work of the bacteriological society appeared 
so important that the National Research 
Council offered to take it over so as to place 
facilities at tlie disposal of the worker which 
were not available to the bacteriological 
society alone. The work has been organized 
with the cooperation of tlie Department of 
Agriculture and several national scientific 
societies. The hope of the committee is 
not only to standardize the stains but to 
secure the production of biological stains 



646 



THE JOXIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



in this country decidedly better than those 
available before the war. 



Polytechnic Institute. While the Ala- 
bama Polytechnic Institute has been co- 
educational for many years, it had been 
more in a nominal way up to the beginning 
of the 1921-22 session. This year with 
Miss Harris in the position of Dean of 
Women and State Home Demonstration 
Agent, rapid developments in women's 
work are expected. The training of county 
home demonstration agents will greatly 
strengthen the excellent home demonstration 
work being done in Alabama. 

Announcement has been made by Helen 
Green, Head of the Home Economics De- 
partment that, in cooperation with the 
State Home Economics Association and the 
E.xtension Service through the district and 
county home demonstration agents, definite 
plans are now under way for the establish- 
ment of a uniform course in dress making 
in the high schools of Alabama. 

In addition to making this course uniform 
in the high schools it wUl also be carried 
to the girls m the rural sections by the 
county home demonstration agents. 

At a recent meeting of the State Home 
Economics Association Miss Green was 
made chairman of a committee on dress 
making, and is therefore taking the lead 
in establishing this course in the high schools. 



University of Arizona. All graduates in 
home economics last June have secured 
teaching positions for the present year. 
AU but one accepted positions in the state. 

The Home Economics Practice House has 
secured a two year old boy who has become 
a member of the house family for the first 
semester. This child was selected for the 
purpose of teaching the choice of foods for 
children, and food habits and discipline. 

Conference. Before the public schools of 
Arizona opened, Kate Bear, Supervisor of 
Vocational Home Economics, called a con- 



ference of home economics teachers for the 
purpose of outlining the state plans and 
requirements and stimulating cooperation 
among the teachers of the state. The 
response and interest of the teachers insured 
the success of this conference. 



A Woman's Conference was held at 
Florida State College for Women, Septem- 
ber 4-S. The members of the conference 
were home demonstration agents, state 
board of directors of the Woman's Club, and 
other home economics workers. 

The Oraicron Nu fraternity was installed 
at Florida State College for Women on 
May 4 with an active membership of seven. 



University of Idaho. The vacancies 
caused by the resignation of Zella E. Bige- 
low, Associate Professor of Clothing, Hallie 
E. Hyde, Associate Professor of Foods, and 
Janet Scott, Supervisor of Practice Teach- 
ing, were filled by the appointment of Ruth 
Patchin, Montana Clothing Specialist; Ra- 
mona A. Pease, Columbia University; and 
Florence Sly, University of Minnesota. 



Home Economics Extension. A revela- 
tion of what a county can do without the 
help of a home demonstration agent was 
illustrated by the exhibit made at a recent 
County Product Show In Noble County. 
The women of this county, which has twelve 
townships, undertook to show what each 
township was doing with its local organi- 
zation and occasional visits from extension 
specialists. 

Each township put on an exhibit, which 
was judged by the following score card: 
Education value, 25; quality 25; arrange- 
ment 25; appropriateness 25. 

Some of the titles may prove suggestive: 
Practical Nursery — a home nursery, with 
inexpensive yet complete equipment. Dem- 
onstrations on the care of the child. The 



1922] 



KEWS FROM THE FIELD 



647 



Thrashing Dinner — a table set with a meal, 
which would be satisfying and easily pre- 
pared and served. Suggestions for typical 
meals. The Ideal Seiving Room — neces- 
sary equipment; demonstration. The 
School Child — e.xhibits of well planned 
lunches, contrasted with unsuitable ones. 
Appropriate school garments contrasted 
with unsuitable ones. Ways in which a 
school child may help mother. In the 
Kitchen — suggestions for making the Meal 
in the Kitchen attractive. 

The Exhibit at the Indiana State Fair, 
Indianapolis, September 4-9, featured cloth- 
ing projects. The homemade dress form 
and its use were emphasized. An exhibit 
which attracted much attention was a 
ready-made dress, its sale price attached, 
and a homemade dress, copied from it, 
using the same materials, and effecting a 
saving of forty dollars. 

As a result of the forty-eight two-day 
millinery classes that have been held in 
the past year, numbers of hats made at 
these schools were displayed, with posters 
showing the cost. 

The home economics extension service 
also cooperated with the dairy division in 
the milk project, and with the horticulture 
representives in the beautifying of home 
grounds program. 

New workers in home economics extension 
are Madeline Connor, Foods Specialist; 
Neva Stephenson, Girl's Club Leader; 
Aneta Beedle, Assistant, to cooperate with 
the mUk demonstration work of the dairy 
department. 

Purdue University. The first meeting of 
the Home Economics Club at Purdue Uni- 
versity was well attended. The group is 
enthusiastic over the prospect of the year's 
work in the New Home Economics Building. 
Professor Mary L. Matthews talked on the 
"Opportunities in Home Economics." 
Each member of the home economics faculty 
was introduced. 

New members of the staff are Katharine 
McFarland, instructor in Institution Admin- 
istration and Foods, and Marie Schrass, 
assistant in Clothing and Textiles. 



Smce September, 1921, Indiana has been 
devoting part of her Experknent Fund to 
research work in home economics. The 
personnel of this new department is made 
up of Mr. G. I. Christie, Director of Agri- 
cultural E.xperiment Station, Professor Mary 
L. Matthews, Chief of Department of Home 
Economics in the E.xperiment Station, and 
Ruth Jordan, Assistant in the Department 
of Home Economics in the Experiment 
Station. In most colleges members of the 
teaching staff of the department are too 
busy to carry on investigation or research 
except in a very limited way. Just as the 
practical farmer looks to the Experiment 
Station workers for help in solving his 
problems, so the practical housewife should 
have some place to which she might look 
for assistance. During the short existence 
of this department it has solved dozens 
of problems for Indiana women. 



Iowa State College. Ten members of 
the Home Economics Division attended 
the convention at Corvallis. 

Twelve weeks unit courses are being 
offered for homemakers this year. They 
include foods, nutrition, clothing, and house- 
hold management. 

Dr. Mary Sheldon has been added to the 
hospital staff to assist in caring for the 
health of the college women. Every fresh- 
man is given a thorough physical examina- 
tion and attention is provided for those who 
need special diet or corrective gymnastics. 
A strong, constructive health program b 
under way. 

The number of women registered this 
fall is about 1050. An informational test 
in home economics was given every fresh- 
man student registered in the Home Eco- 
nomics Division in addition to the regular 
intelligence tests which have been given at 
the beginning of each year for several years. 

The sorority houses are benefiting by the 
centralized bu>'ing plan which has been 
started under the direction of the Stewards 
Club. 



648 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



KENTUCKY 

The Kentucky Home Economics Asso- 
ciation held its annual meeting October 
13-14 at Louisville, MaybeUe Cornell, presi- 
dent, presiding. 

A session was given over to each of the 
following departments: Extension, Home- 
making, Health, Teaching, Institutional. 

Some of the general subjects discussed 
were The Health Program, The Bureau of 
Child Hygiene, Boys' and Girls' Club Work. 

There was a large attendance, and over 
twenty new members were added to the 
association. 

MICHIG.^N 

Nutrition Classes. In September, 1921, 
nutrition work was started in Michigan 
City under the direction of Pearl Henderson. 
The Women's Study Club of the city 
sponsored and financed the work for the 
year in eight public and three parochial 
schools. Prior to this time there had been 
no intensive health work carried on among 
the children and their parents, and there 
were no public agencies which had given 
medical relief of a constructive nature. 

The nutrition worker made a survey of 
the children in all of the schools with the 
following results: 

Public Schools 



Total number weighed 

Total number 7 per cent or 
more under weight for age 
or height 

Percentage under weight — 



Girls Boy! 



U78 



638 
54.1 



1214 



647 

53.2 



Parochial Schools 



Total number weighed 

Total number 7 per cent or 
more under weight for age 
or height 

Percentage under weight 



635 



375 
59.0 



598 



351 

58.7 



Total number chUdren, 4r-17 years, weighed 
and measured, was 3625, the total number 
7 per cent or more underweight was 2011, 
showing 55 per cent of the children in the 
schools to be so undernourished that they 
should have special attention and care. 



Nutridon classes were organized in differ- 
ent schools as quickly as possible, though 
the worker had only volunteer assistance 
in the making of charts. The children were 
measured every four weeks and weighed 
each week at a regular time. The class 
met for IS or 20 minutes per week for instruc- 
tion in food and health habits. 

The physical examinations of the 290 boys 
and girls in the nutrition classes showed the 
following histories: 

InsufiScient rest, 63.4 per cent 

Closed windows in sleeping rooms, 

32.4 per cent 
Insufficient vegetables, 50.6 per cent 
Insufficient f mits, 49.6 per cent 
Insufficient cereals, 47.5 per cent 
Coffee or tea drinkers, 82.7 per cent 
Do not clean teeth, 36.8 per cent 
Diseased tonsils or adenoids, 33.8 per 

cent 
Decayed teeth, 65.3 per cent 
Defective vision, 33 per cent 
The habits of the nutrition class pupils 
are typical of the 55 per cent who were 
undernourished. 

After nine months the children showed a 
gain in height of 117.7 per cent and 108.5 per 
cent in weight. A group of ten pupils m 
the nutrition classes who were defect-free 
or had defects corrected eariy in the fall 
made a gam of 141.67 per cent in height 
and 249.1 per cent in weight. 

A reweighing and remeasuring of the 
3625 boys and girls showed the pubUc 
schoob to have made a higher percentage 
gain than the parochial. In the parochial 
schools, 1061 boys and girls who were 
weighed in September and again in June, 
made an average gain of 117.3 per cent in 
height and 95 per cent in weight. In the 
pubUc schools, 2048 who were weighed in 
September and again in June, made an aver- 
age gain of 114.8percentin height and 108.1 
per cent in weight. In the pubUc schools the 
hours are shorter than in the parochial, 
because the church instruction is omitted. 
The public schools are more modern and 
have better ventilating and heating systems. 
There was some physical training included 
in the program. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



649 



Throughout the year meetings were held 
in the schools for parents of undernourished 
children. The majority of the 250 who 
attended these meetings were the parents 
of public school children. There is a great 
need for more health work among the 
parochial and public schools. It has been 
very evident during the year that the cor- 
recting of imdemourishment requires a 
closer cooperation between the dietitians and 
physicians. 



University of Missouri. There was a 
conference of the vocational teachers of 
home economics held in connection with 
Junior Farmers Week at Columbia, No\ em- 
ber 2-4. This was widely attended by 
teachers from all parts of the state. 

In order to help provide the various 
county fairs with competent judges, the 
department of home economics has com- 
piled a list of trained women who can give 
some time to attending the fairs and judging 
products. WTien requests for assistance 
come to the University, addresses of the 
women livTng in or near the county are 
sent to the Fair Board. The scheme has 
worked weU for three years. 

The State Home Economics Conference 
of Missouri met in Kansas City November 
15-18, in connection with the State Teachers 
Association. The president of this section 
is Ella Groenewold of Warrensburg State 
Teachers College, and the Secretary is 
Clare White, supervisor of home economics 
for the state. 



High School Dormitory. There are a 
number of county high schools in Nebraska, 
in which the housing of non-resident students 
is a growing problem. To meet this situ- 
ation, the patrons of Rock County have 
erected a girls' dormitory, providing rooms 
for approximately twenty-five students. 
Unfurnished rooms with light and heat are 
available, rent free, to non-resident students 
of the county. A matron is in charge, 
and board is furnished at cost. The plan 
of having the home economics laboratories 



in the girls dormitory, with the food classes 
taking a large responsibility in the planning 
and preparation of meals, is believed to be 
a practical one. The Home Economics 
Section of the State Board for Vocational 
Education, cooperating with the Agricultural 
Engineering Extension Department, is work- 
ing out tentative plans for such buildings. 

Nebraska Wesleyan University. By a 
cooperative arrangement with the pubUc 
schools of University Place, the University 
has started a course in home management 
practice in the Domestic Arts Home belong- 
ing to the public schools. A group of three 
senior college students, with Lemo Dennis 
of the Wesleyan faculty, live three weeks in 
the Home, taking fuU charge for this period. 
The family provided for by these girls 
consists of their instructor, Miss Dennis, 
the two home economics Instructors in the 
University Place High School, Miss Fortna 
and Mrs. Fuller, and Mrs. Fuller's son who 
is 14 years old. 

The State Educational Association held 
its fall district meetings in the six districts 
of the state, October 12-14. At each of 
these meetings the new state home economics 
association held section meetings. 

The University of Nebraska has 237 girls 
specializing in its course in home economics 
and 55 others electing one or more home 
economics courses. 58 senior girls will be 
graduating from the department this year 
to become teachers, commercial workers, 
institutional managers, extension workers, 
and dietitians. 

Eleven graduates of the University of 
Nebraska attended the American Home 
Economics Association meeting at Corvallis. 

Anna Dee and Lydia Swanson, seniors 
in the Home Economics Department, are 
spending the first term of this year at the 
Merrill Palmer school in Detroit taking 
courses in Child Care and Management. 

The Home Management House has a 
two year old boy in its family circle. Last 
year the girb took a six months old girl 
to care for. They hope this year to get 
experience in the training of the child in 
addition to the problem of physical care 
which they had last year. 



650 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



New members of the home economics 
staff are Ruth Staples, in charge of home 
management courses, and Myrtle Easley, 
millinery specialist with the Home Eco- 
nomics Extension Service. 

NEW ENGLAND 

The New England Home Economics 
Association held its first fall meeting at 
Massachusetts Agricultural College, Am- 
herst, October 14, 1922. A report of the 
American Home Economics Association 
meeting at Corvallis, and a paper on Flower 
Arrangement by Professor Clark Thayer, 
were followed by a tour of the campus and 
a luncheon arranged by Lucile W. Reynolds. 
The Contribution of Economics to Home 
Economics by Lorian P. Jefferson, Assistant 
Research Professor in Agricultural Eco- 
nomics, and The Contribution of Sociology 
to Home Economics by President Kenyon 
L. Butterfield, formed the afternoon program. 
The Social Service Section met October 28 
at Girls' City Club, Boston. This was a 
get-together meeting with exhibition of 
poster material for social service workers. 

Eastern States Exposition at Springfield. 
Tliis year, in addition to the six boys and 
six girls representing the club teams of 
each of the ten Eastern States, three boys 
and three girls came from Maryland, West 
Virginia, and Virginia. These teams demon- 
strated their projects in homemaking and 
agriculture. May B. Van Arsdale and 
Mary I. Barber of the Foods and Cookery 
Department of Teachers College attended 
the exposition as members of the Advisory 
Board of Camp Vail. 

Vacation Canning Classes. The PubUc 
Schools in Boston are opening their doors 
more and more each year to the children 
who must spend the two long summer 
months of the school vacation in the city, 
for in the city means largely in the streets. 
Classes are held where children who are 
behind in their work may review their 
studies for the next winter. Play grounds 
are kept open and sufficient and competent 
teachers provided to keep the children happy 
and busy with athletics, games, dramatics, 



and story telling. In addition to these 
activities special project classes are opened 
in gardening, canning, basketry, furniture 
repair, toy-making, and sewing. The work 
is wholly voluntary, each child choosing 
his own project and working at it as many 
mornings a week as he wishes, and the 
limited time and space allow. 

From one family three children, two girls 
and a boy, came two mornings a week for 
six weeks to canning class. Their father 
had a garden. Those three children canned 
eighty quarts of fruits and vegetables. 

For canning classes of about fifteen chil- 
dren, one teacher is provided. Where more 
children crowd in, sometimes twenty-five 
or thirty a day, two teachers are provided. 
The children bring whatever they wish to 
can, being guided in choice by the teacher. 
They may bring jars and rubbers from home 
or buy them at the kitchen. Some of the 
teachers buy fruits or vegetables at whole- 
sale for the children. The equipment is 
simple, most of it being found in any school 
kitchen. By sorting out the necessary 
simimer utensils from the rest of the kitchen 
equipment and using these alone, the equip- 
ment can be returned easily and if neces- 
sary replenished at the end of the season. 
One kitchen was opened for the first time 
in the summer of 1921, the initial cost 
to the city being the price of two boilers, 
racks, and tongs. The necessary kitchen 
equipment such as knives, saucepans, etc., 
was taken from the homemaking depart- 
ment of the school and returned at the close 
of the summer. About $2.00 was spent to 
replenish this equipment and three dollars 
for running expenses. The kitchen was 
kept open three days a week, two teachers 
being on duty for six hours each day. The 
city paid for the services of the teachers and 
a janitor, and for gas and water. Forty 
children attended regularly twice a week 
and twenty more enrolled for brief periods. 
Six hundred quarts of fruits and vegetables 
were canned in that kitchen, about sLxty 
per cent of the products coming from the 
gardens of the neighborhood. The work was 
in charge of Lucy H. Nash, 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



651 



KEW YOES 

The New York State Home Economics 
Association met in SjTacuse, Xovember 27- 
28. A report of the meeting will appear in 
the January Jouknai.. 

The Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York held the first meeting 
of the year at Teachers College, October 25, 
after a dinner served by the Foods and 
Cookery Department. ^Irs. Jenoise Brown 
Short, president, presided, ilarie Sellers 
reported the Corvallis meeting, and Emma 
Gunther and L. Ray Balderston told of their 
e.Yperiences in China. 

Home Economics Exhibit. The Home 
Economics Association of Greater New York 
conducted a booth at the First Annual 
Exhibit of Women's Activities held under 
the auspices of The Business and Professional 
Women's League, at the Hotel Commodore, 
New York City, September 18-23. One 
of the objects of this exhibition was to 
present to young women the various activi- 
ties which are open to them. The com- 
mittee felt it advisable to present a different 
phase of home economics work each after- 
noon and evening of the show and a program 
was arranged accordingly. This program 
was announced on a large card, and visitors 
gained some idea of the field covered during 
the week. 

On Monday afternoon, Mrs. Jenoise B. 
Short, President of the Home Economics 
Association of Greater New York, talked on 
home economics journalism. In the evening 
Matilda McKeown of the New York Public 
Schools and Elizabeth Condit of Pratt 
Institute illustrated the financial end of 
housekeeping by the use of budgets. Tues- 
day afternoon, Mrs. Henrietta Dursee 
Robinson discussed homemaking as a pro- 
fession, and in the evening Miss Diehl and 
Miss Rogers of Pratt Institute discussed 
practical courses in homemaking. 

Wednesday was devoted to the activities 
of home economics women in hospitals, and 
interesting exhibits were arranged. Miss 
Howard, dietitian of Bellevue Hospital, 
described the administrative work of a 
dietitian in a large institution; Miss Lautz, 



dietitian of Presbyterian Hospital, em- 
phasized the specialized work of dietitians 
in dieto-therapy, and showed several special 
trays and the equipment for weighing foods 
accurately. 

Miss Fisher of the Department of House- 
hold and Institutional Administration, 
Teachers College, had charge of the program 
for Thursday. In the afternoon Mrs. Shafer 
of the National Bank of Commerce and 
Miss Knight of Newark discussed the work 
of feeding large groups in business institu- 
tions and schools. In the evening. Miss 
Fisher outlined some typical positions that 
are open to women in the management of 
large group living activities and discussed 
some of the more recent developments in 
specialized work for women. 

Friday afternoon. Miss Bowman and 
Miss Lyon, Pratt Institute, outlined courses 
of training and types of positions open to 
women in the field of dressmaking, textiles, 
and millinery. DoUs were shown dressed 
in interesting period styles. Friday evening, 
Miss Gillett of the Association for Improving 
the Condition of the Poor told of the activi- 
ties of nutrition workers in the home and 
schools. Charts and other material were 
shown. 

On Saturday afternoon. Miss Holloway, 
Pratt Institute, discussed courses in foods 
and cookery for the home and institution. 
In the evening a marketing exhibit was 
arranged, under the supervision of Miss 
Van Arsdale, by Miss Parish and Miss 
Yackey of the Department of Foods and 
Cookery of Teachers College. Various 
commercial brands of food in small and 
large packages were shown and their prices 
compared to convey the idea that it pays 
for food buyers to accustom themselves 
to a knowledge of weights given on labels, 
and the price paid per actual ounce or 
pound. Mimeographed material was dis- 
tributed, giving practical suggestions for 
wise marketing. 

It was the consensus of opinion among 
those in charge that the exhibit had been 
of considerable value in educating the public 
as to the scope of home economics work. 



652 



THE JOUIINAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Plans for the entire demonstration were 
in charge of Mary Pascoe Huddeson. 

The Second Annual Stinuner Session 
for State Home Economics Teachers, held at 
Buffalo Normal School, was planned to 
meet the needs of two distinct groups of 
teachers; first, those who already were 
qualified as teachers in home economics 
but desired further improvement in methods 
and up-to-date subject matter; second, 
those who were not fully qualified but in 
need of both subject matter and professional 
courses. The majority of the 105 students 
enrolled were in the second group. 

Of the thirteen members composing the 
faculty, four were from the regular faculty 
of the Buffalo teacher training center, four 
from outside of the state, and the remainder 
from other institutions and schools in the 
state. Treva Kauffman, State Supervisor 
of Home Economics, was director of the 
session. 

The following courses were given: 

1. Professional courses: organization and 
teaching of homemaking in the evening 
school, correlation of English with home- 
making for the foreign-born woman, project 
method of teaching, principles and problems 
of part-time education, teaching general 
subjects in part-time sclwols, homemaking 
in the part-time school, the organization 
and conduct of state aided courses in home- 
making and their relation to the community, 
the methods of teaching nutrition in the 
school. 

2. Subject matter courses: economics, 
educational sociology, household science, 
clothing and design, home decoration, home 
management, food study, the school lunch 
problem. 

Practice classes were conducted in con- 
nection with several of the courses. A 
voluntary class of high school girls met 
twice a week at Kenmore, the regular 
practice center in connection with the winter 
session. This class was used for demon- 
strating both the class and home project 
method. A practice class of 25 women from 
the county Home Bureau was used in con- 
nection with the evening school class. A 
group of eight Italian women at Mt. Carmel 
Guild was used as a practice class in teaching 



the correlation of English and homemaking. 
Each student enrolled in the course was 
responsible for one lesson. The group of 
Italian women became so interested that a 
teacher was secured to carry on the work 
after the course closed at the Normal School. 

Nutrition classes were organized in Buffalo 
Public Schools and Memorial Chapel Settle- 
ment as part of the course offered in the 
organization of nutrition work in the public 
schools. 

In developing the part time education 
classes, arrangements were made with 
several commercial and industrial establish- 
ments for occupational study. A round 
table conference was held with several 
employment managers. 

The cafeteria was used as a laborator> 
for the lunch room course. From 300 to 
400 people were served daily. Cdfeteria 
service was maintained for the students, 
and dining room service for the faculty. 

The practice house was occupied and 
used as a laboratory for the home manage- 
ment group. 

Special lectures of both general and 
specific interest were held each afternoon 
at 3 o'clock. 

A Household Science Exhibit was ar- 
ranged, and electrical applicances of interest 
to the homemaker were displayed and 
demonstrated. Fifteen firms cooperated 
and $2300 worth of equipment was loaned 
for the exhibit. 

Health in the Home. The Home Eco- 
nomics .Association of Greater New York 
assumed the responsibility of arranging and 
presiding over two booths which were taken 
by the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, at the Public Health Exhibition, 
held at the Twenty-Third Regiment Ar- 
mory, Brooklyn, N. Y., Oct. 7-14, 1922. 

Mrs. Margaret Loring Thomas, chairman 
of the committee, was assisted by Elizabeth 
Condit, Lucy Gillett and Grace MacLeod. 

A collection of primitive cooking utensUs, 
used by American Indians, loaned by the 
American Museum of Natural History, 
formed an interesting historical background 
for the educational side of the exhibit. It 
incidentally fyoved a very effective way of 
getting in touch with small boys and men. 



1922] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



653 



Conversation about "things the Indians 
cooked in" could very quickly be turned to 
"things good for boys and girls to eat." 
The latter were very strildngly illustrated 
by posters made by the pupils of the Public 
Schools of Brooklyn and New York, hung 
on the wall back of the Indian utensils. 

A kitchen cabinet with an outfit of 
modem utensils aroused the interest of 
housekeepers. A model breakfast, dirmer, 
and supper for a twelve year old girl, also 
loaned by the American Museum of Natural 
History, set on a small serving table near 
the cabinet, appealed to the spectator from 
another point of view. The composition of 
the foods served in the model meals was 
illustrated by vari-colored blocks of wood. 

Dr. Langworthy's charts and a collection 
of Government Bulletins held the attention 
of the intelligent passer-by. A number of 
men evidently heads of families, asked to 
have copies of some of the bulletins obtained 
for them. 

Fifty-two lantern slides were automat- 
ically displayed, in rotation, in a stereomoto- 
graph, loaned by the Department of Health. 
The slides were selected from among those 
owned by the Department of Health and 
the Museum of Natural History. "Health 
in the Home" was the feature of this part 
of the exhibit. Many of the slides were 
attractively colored, some showed children 
eating, going to school, and being weighed; 
others showed clean cows and good milk 
supply; others the composition, food value, 
and cost of foods. Dr. Mendell's rats ap- 
peared in the slides as graphically as ever. 

There was a hostess for every day, each 
one emphasizing her personal reaction. 
Mrs. Jenoise B. Short, President of the 
Home Economics Association of Greater 
New York, represented Home Economics in 
journalism; Mrs. Thomas, the importance 
of home economics training for the home- 
maker; Elizabeth Condit, of Pratt Institute 
made a plea for the study of home economics 
through literature and the greater use of 
libraries; Alma J. Finlayson, President of 
the Association of Home Economics Teach- 
ers of the New York City Elementary 
Schools, explained the work done in the 
Public Schools; Day Monroe and students 



from Teachers College were present to give 
the latest news of the progress being made 
in nutrition and public health work. 
Over 50,000 people attended the exhibit. 



The Ohio Home Economics Association 
held the October meeting in Dayton, 
October 7. The topic for discussion was 
"Scientific Feeding of the Public." Bertha 
Hyde spoke for the hospital dietitians, Helen 
Sawyer for the managers of tea rooms, and 
Agnes Ludman told of the possibilities of 
the school lunch. Mr. John Willy, Editor 
of the Hotel Monthly told of the activities 
of trade journals in the interest of nutrition. 

The December meeting will be held in 
Columbus, December 27. The subject will 
be Art in Home Economics. 

Ohio State University. A course called 
Child Care is to be offered to senior students 
in home economics. An attempt is being 
made to include, not only the physical care 
of the child, but also a study of his mental 
characteristics and development, his place 
in the family, and the responsibility of 
society for the child. Obviously, with so 
inclusive an outline, the subject must be 
treated in survey style to give viewpoint 
rather than a mass of detail. The course 
will be taught by various specialists. Inter- 
esting plans are being developed for obser- 
vation and experience. 



College of Industrial Arts. The comple- 
tion of ten rooms in the Household Arts 
Building, for the use of students in the 
department, establishes a milepost of prog- 
ress and indicates the lines along which 
Texas is developing education for women. 

Two new foods laboratories and a third 
dining room for meal service relieve the 
present laboratories, of which there are 
four devoted to food work. The new dining 
room permits of increase in lessons in actual 
meal service. The new laboratories, in 
addition to providing for more classes are 
so equipped as to provide enlarged oppor- 
tunities in many directions. The meal 



654 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



service laboratory equipment includes a 
steam table and especially constructed 
cupboards and tables. The other food 
laboratory is equipped with four unit 
kitchens and has many special features 
planned by the faculty of the department. 

A drying room has been installed for 
wet towels. Each instructor will regulate 
the supply for her classes. Additional 
storage room has been provided to relieve 
congestion. A reception room has been 
furnished for use in connection with the 
dining rooms. 

There are three new laboratories and a 
work room for students in domestic art. 
Built-in lockers and large closets are features 
of the millinery laboratories. Power ma- 
chines for advanced classes in clothing, and 
other up-to-date appliances afford oppor- 
tunity for work of high grade. 



Dorothy Arnold, Instructor in Applied 
Art, University of Missouri, has been given 
a lea\ e of absence for special study. 

Virginia Bauer, who has been instructor 
at the University of Chicago for the last 
year has been elected instructor in the 
University of Missouri. 

Zella E. Bigelow, who in June resigned 
per position as Associate Professor of Cloth- 
ing, University of Idaho, was married 
August 30, to Dr. Thompson, a member of 
the Law Faculty of the University of Macon, 
Georgia. 

Ida Carr who assisted in vocational work 
in Nebraska last year was married this 
summer to Mr. N. L. Tyson. 

Eloise Davison has resigned as Household 
Management Specialist at Ohio State Uni- 
versity to accept a position in the Home 
Economics Department at Iowa State 
College. 

Marie Fuller is head of the home eco- 
nomics work at Pine Manor, Mass. 

Agnes Ellen Harris, formerly Field Agent 
in the States Relations Service, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, is now Dean of Women 
at the Alabama Polytechnic Institute and 
State Home Demonstration Agent. 

Rachel Harris, millinery specialist with 
the Home Economics Extension Service in 



Nebraska, was married this summer to 
Mr. Robert Cunningham of Janesville, Wise. 
Hallie E. Hyde, for the past eight years. 
Associate Professor of Foods, University of 
Idaho, is spending a year in Honolulu. 

Lillian Jeters and Lemo Dennis of 
Nebraska Wesleyan spent the summer in 
New York attending Teachers College, 
Columbia. 

Lonny Landrum, District Home Demon- 
stration agent of North Florida has accepted 
the position of Conservation Specialist in 
South Carolina. 

Ellen Lenoir has been appointed as Miss 
Landrum's successor. 

Alice Loomis, who has been State Super- 
visor since the organization of vocational 
work in Nebraska, is now giving all of her 
time to the development of home economics 
in the part-time and evening schools and 
to assisting with the development of trade 
and industrial education in the state. 

Hughina McKay who received her Mas- 
ter's Degree last summer at the University 
of Chicago, has accepted a position on the 
Home Economics Staff at Ohio State 
University. 

Elizabeth W. Miller of Iowa State CoUege 
is now Mrs. Koch and is again associated 
with the Home Economics Department of 
the University of Chicago. 

Margaret Sandels has been appointed 
acting Dean of Home Economics at Florida 
State College for Women. 

Hannah StiUman, who did graduate work 
at the University of Missouri last year has 
been added to the staff as instructor in 
dietetics. 

Miss Tracy has accepted the position of 
dietitian at Florida State College for Women. 

Birdie Vorhees, formerly of Oklahoma 
A. & M. College, is State Supervisor of 
Home Economics in the Bay Schools in 
Nebraska. 

Mildred Weigley of the University of 
Minnesota was married to Mr. Henry C. 
Wood of Phoenix, Arizona. 

Bertha Whipple, Assistant Professor of 
Home Economics, University of Missouri, 
has been granted a leave of absence to do 
special work as dietitian in the American 
Hospital, Stamboul, Constantmople. 



INDEX TO VOLUME XIV 



Accounting: See Economics 
Achievements of home economics, 5 
Additional special training for home demon- 
stration woAers (abs.), 554 
Adjustments desirable in teacher training 

institutions (abs.)> 559 
Administration problems, 121 
Adolph, William Henry. How China 

uses the soy bean as food, 63 
Advertising, Food, (Ed.), 38 
Aims of home management (abs.), 563 
American Dietetic Association: Fourth an- 
nual meeting,* 99; Fifth annual meet- 
ing*, 458, 517, 643 
American Home Economics Association 
Meetings: Annual, Corvallis, 45, 97, 
151, 197, 249, 295, 336, 349, 502, pro- 
ceedings 519-600; Business, 589; Coun- 
cil, 304, 581; E.xecutive Committee, 
597; Mid-year, Chicago, 53, Detroit, 
503, 600; With N. E. A., 355, 461 
Americanization: See Social Work 
Amery, Elisabeth. The content of health 

courses in the colleges (abs.), 539 
Analysis of the field of institution manage- 
ment and the preparation for it, 370 
Analysis of textbooks in clothing and tex- 
tiles, 471, 625 
Annual meeting: See A. H. E. A. Meetings 
Application of design and color to millinery, 

368 
Are home demonstration programs of work 
educationally sound, economically im- 
portant, sociologically constructive? 
(abs.), 552 
Art principles in the teaching of home 

economics, 55 
Artificial silk, 425 

AsBDRY, Maude. Iron analysis of kale and 
turnip greens, 131 

B 

Bailey, N. Beth. .\ course in marketing, 

220 
Barber, Edith M. The thrift kitchen as 

an asset in city home bureau work (abs.), 

564 



Basal metaboUsm and food consumption of 

underweight college women, 171, 226 
Basal metabolism of women and under- 
weight children, 117 
Bauer, Virginia. The basal metabolism 
and food consumption of underweight 
college women, 171, 226 
Bevier, Isabel. Reconstruction days in 
home economics, 361; Some of the 
larger relationships of home economics 
(abs.), 528 
Bibliography of Home Economics: 42, 95, 
149, 195, 246, 292, 347, 403, 455, 510, 
640 
Blackmore, Beulah. A clothing project, 

430 
Blunt, Katharine. Basal metabolism and 
food consumption of underweight col- 
lege women, 171, 226; Basal metabolism 
of women and underweight children, 
117; Research in the University of 
Chicago (abs.), 573 
BoGERT, L. Jean. Studies on calcium and 
magnesium metabolism in normal 
women (abs.), 619 
Book Reviews: 

Aids to family catering, 346 

Black's simple cookery and household 

management, 346 
A book of recipes for the cooking school, 

346 
Cakes, cookies, and confections; Pas- 
tries and deserts; Salads, vegetables 
and the market basket, 345 
Calcium requirements of children, 640 
The care of leather, 347 
The child and the home, 402 
Chimneys and fireplaces, 347 
Clothing: choice, care, cost, 92 
The coal fire, 42 
Cost of living (references to periodicals) , 

42 
The Delineator (reference to child wel- 
fare articles), 149 
A dietary study of some Kansas 

institutions, 292 
Domestic fuel consumption, 42 
Elementary industrial arts, 401 



Note: A star indicates news items listed other than under News. 

Abbreviations used are : abs. = abstract of address at Corvallis; Ed. = Editorial; h. e. = home 
economics; O. F. = Open Forum. 

655 



656 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Book Reviews — Continued. 

Everyday maimers for American boys 

and girls, 400 
An extension course for homemakers 

(loan paper), 454 
Fish cookery, 346 
Food charts, 346 
Food products: their source, chemistry 

and use, 40 
Foods of the foreign bom in relation 

to health, 509 
A form of record for hospital social 

work, 244 
Getting your money's worth, 289 
Handbook of social resources of the 

United States, 245 
Health education and the nutrition 

class, 451 
Health in home and town, 453 
Here and now story book, 243 
A history of industry, 291 
Hospital division circular No. 195, 347 
How John and Mary save on S35 a 

week, 347 
How to get on two pay rolls, 401 
The Illinois food calendar, 194 
Jack O'Health and Peg O'Joy, 41 
A laboratory hand book for dietetics, 91 
Make your own hats, 193 
Manufactured gas and natural gas 

situation in Pennsylvania, 194 
Mercure de France, 402 
New homes for old, 39 
The newer knowledge of nutrition, 451 
Nutrition, 402 

Nutrition and growth in children, 399 
Obstetrical nursing, 400 
Personal account book of — pupU, — 

school, 193 
Personal budgets for employed women, 

346 
Personal hygiene, 290 
Pictorial Review (ref. to nutridon 

articles), 347 
Positions of responsibility in depart- 
ment stores and other retail selling 

organizations, 344 
Practical business arithmetic, 401 
Producing amateur entertainments, 41 
Public health surveys, 193 
Quantities to serve 50 persons, 402 
Ouantitj- cookery: cooking and menu 

planning for large numbers, 452 



Revaluations, 91 

The school lunch: its organization and 
management in Philadelphia, 92 

School needlework, 453 

Spending the family income, 147 

The sponge cake family, 345 

Stored food record (blanks), 454 

A suggested outline of study, 402 

The Syracuse Home Bureau food cal- 
endar, 194 

Talks to mothers, 453 

Teaching social science in high schools 
and industrial classes, 93 

Transactions of the twelfth annual 
meeting of the Amer. Child Hygiene 
Assn., 640 

The vitamine manual, 39 

The vitamines, 343 

The vitamines, 509 

Vocational arithmetic for girls, 148 

A week's food supply, 346 

WTiat is social case work, 289 

Women in the law, 345 

Women professional workers, 147 
Botanical instrucrion for students of home 

economics, 309 
Bowman, Leona F. Score cards as devices 

in teaching clothing construction, 322 
Boys' and girls' achievement club, 632 
Boys' and girls' club work: See Extension 

Work 
Broadcasting home economics through the 

magazines (abs.), 565 
Brown, Edith L. The value of whale 

meat as human food, 267 
Budget: See Economics; Study and Teaching 
Budget (student contribution), 333 
Budget project in three state colleges for 

women, 125 
BuRKLE, Frieda M. Mass child feeding in 

Germany, 207 



Cafeteria: Administration problems, 121; 

Our campus tea room, 168; Planning 

the establishment of a cafeteria, 314; 

See also Institution Management 
Calcium requirements of children, 413 
Call of the business world for trained 

workers, 23 
Callaway, Theodosia T. Mathematics 

needed in elementary clothing, 465 



1922] 



INDEX TO VOUJME XIV 



657 



Canning and Preserving: See Cookery; 
Research 

Carlson, Gudrun. Nutrition: its appli- 
cation to commercial and industrial 
problems (abs.), 537 

Cedar chests, 140 

Chestnut tree may be restored, 69 

Children: Diet of nursing mother (Ed.), 
503; Home within and without (abs.), 
568; What the community owes the 
child (abs.), 524; Your child and mine 
(abs.), 570; See also Nutrition; Social 
Work 

Choosing a life work, 432 

Citizenship, Homemaking as a phase of, 27 

Clinics: See Children; Nutrition 

Clothing project, 430 

Clothing and Textiles: Analj-sis of text- 
books in clothing and textiles, 471, 
625; AppUcation of design and color to 
millinery, 368; Art principles in the 
teaching of home economics, 55; Arti- 
ficial silk, 425; Clothing project, 430; 
Dyestuflfs, 328; Effect of bleaching on 
tensile strength of cotton fabrics, 262, 
382; Home projects in the seventh and 
eighth grades, (abs.), 541; Laundering, 
109; Mathematics needed in elementary 
clothing, 465; Paper dress form, 379; 
Progress report on the petticoat test, 
20; Research methods in textiles (abs.), 
541; Score cards as devices in teaching 
clothing construction, 322; Scouring 
and bleaching cotton, 212; Testing 
merchandise (abs.), 542; Textile col- 
lections in U. S. National Museum 
(Ed.), SOS; See also Editorial; Study 
and Teaching 

Clubs: See Extension Work 

Coffee making (Ed.), 142 

Community: See Cooperation; Extension 
Work; Social Work 

Computing heating values, 139 

Conservation: See Economics 

Content of the first year college course in 
food (abs.), 538 

Content of health courses in the colleges 
(abs.), 539 

Cookery: Coffee making (Ed.), 142; Digesti- 
bility of rolled oats prepared in various 
ways, 9; Effect of cooking upon anti- 
scorbutic vitamine in cabbage, 578; 
Effect of utensils upon rate of cooking. 



274; Factors determining the quality 
of white sauce in large quandty cooking 
(abs.), 57S; Fat used in deep fat frying 
(abs.), S77; Fats and their use in pastry 
making, 330; Internal temperatures 
of foods during cooking (abs.), 579; 
Project method of teaching lunch room 
and special cookery, 375; Studies on 
jelly and butter cake (abs.), 576; See 
also Food Values; Research 

Cooper, Lenna F. The training of hospital 
dietitians (abs.), 545 

Cooperation between home demonstration 
and research specialists (abs.), 553 

Cooperative child nutrition service (abs.), 535 

Cooperative: Community clothing centers 
(O. F.), 449; Cooperative child nutri- 
tion service (abs.), 535; Thrift kitchen 
as an asset in city home bureau work 
(abs.), 564; See also Extension Work; 
Institution Management 

Cornelius, Elizabeth. The vitamine's 
the thing, 335 

Cost of living: See Economics 

Course in buying institutional equipment 
and supplies, 373 

Course in marketing, 220 

Courses of study: See Study and Teaching 

Current home economics research, 181, 233 

D 

Darrah, Juanita. A nutrition demon- 
stration, 616 

Data on water heating in the home, 138 

Denton, Minna C. Cooperation between 
home demonstration and research spec- 
ialists (abs.), 553; Internal temperature 
of foods during cooking (abs.), 579 

Diet: See Cookery; Food Values; Nutrition; 
Social Work 

Dietary on Niu6 Island, 612 

Dietetics: See American Dietetic Associa- 
tion, Diet; Food Values; Nutrition 

Dietitians: See Institution Management 

Digestion: See Food Values 

Domestic Art: See Clothing and Textiles 

Donham, S. Agnes. The educational work 
of business organizations (abs.), 566; 
The need for the application of the 
fundamental principles of economics 
in the home (abs.), 560 

Dormitory dining hall management and in- 
stitutional teaching (abs.), 549 



658 



THE JOURNAL Or HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Dresslar, Martha E. The relative cost of 
gas and electricity for cooking purposes 
(abs.), 580 

Dyestuffs, 328 



Early Englisli customs, 496 
Economics: Application of fundamental 
principles of economics in the home 
(abs.), 560; A budget project in three 
state colleges for women, 125; Energy 
expenditure for household tasks, 621, 
(abs.), 573; Experiment in home build- 
ing (O.F.) 287; Family budget (O.F.) 
285; Meat prices and the housewife, 
281; Motion study and costing in 
household and home organization, 418; 
The price of progress, 133; The relative 
cost of gas and electricity for cooking 
purposes (abs.), 580; Wholesale prices 
in U. S. and Canada, 140; See also 
Editorial; Fuel; Household Manage- 
ment; Marketing; Standards; Study 
and Teaching 
Editorials: 

The American Academy of Political 

and Social Science, 393 
An appreciation, 502 
Baer, Edith, 83 
Belgian exchange of students and 

teachers, 143 
The bureau of home economics, 634 
The call to Corvallis, 336 
The campaign against malnutrition, 441 
The convention in the West, 502 
Correction, 636 
Cox, Jen L., 37 

The demand for health workers, 440 
The diet of the nursing mother, 503 
Executive secretary, 633 
Food advertising, 38 
HaU, Mrs. Caroline A. M., 84 
Hilliard, Maria Willett Howard, 445 
Home economics journalism, 336 
The home economics teacher and the 

health program, 238 
The homemaker and the homemaker's 

department, 187 
A larger journal, 283 
Lincoln, Mrs. Mary Johnson, 83 
The Maternity Bill, 36 
Metabolism of the underweight child, 

141 



The metric system, 414 
National thrift week, 34 
Obesity and diet, 188 
Peacock, Mary Henley, 339 
Pirquet's nutritional index, 394 
Place of meeting, 503 
Purpose and advantage of state affilia- 
tion, 283 
Quahfications of a home economics 

teacher, 393 
Reasons for membership in the A. H. E. 

A., 187 
Rickets and sunlight, 239 
The r61e of instinct in the choice of food, 

284 
The section of social and economic 
sciences of the Amer. Assn. for the 
Advancement of Science, 634 
The sources of the family income, 34 
Standards for work in the elementary 

schools, 394 
Studies in coffee making, 142 
Tabloid vitamins, 636 
The textile collections in the U. S. 

National Museum, 505 
The textile section, 85 

Education: See Study and Teaching 

Educational work of business organizations 
(abs.), 566 

Effect of bleaching on tensile strength of 
cotton fabrics, 262, 382 

EiCHELBERGER, MARrETTA. Iron analysis 
of kale and turnip greens, 131 

Energy e.xpenditure for household task, 
621, (abs.) 573 

English customs, 496 

Equipment: A course in buying institutional 
equipment and supplies, 373; Equip- 
ment in elementary and junior high 
schools 320; See also Institudon Man- 
agement; Study and Teaching 

Equipment in elementary and junior high 
schools, 320 

Evolution of a nutrition class program, 421 

Extension Work: Are home demonstration 
programs of work educationally sound, 
economically important, sociologically 
constructive (abs.), 552; Community 
clothing centers (O.F.), 449; Coopera- 
tion between home demonstration and 
research specialists (abs.), 553; The 
farm woman and her sewing, -139; 
Home economics and the U. S. Dept. 



1922] 



rSTDEX TO VOLUME XTV 



659 



Extension Work — Continued. 

of Agr. (abs.), 526; Home management 
work in the extension field (abs.), 563; 
Nutrition demonstration, 616; The 
paper dress form, 379; Relation of the 
extension specialist to the resident sta£E 
in home economics, 159; Rural life 
survey (abs.), 552; The thrift kitchen 
as an asset in city home bureau work 
(abs.), 564; Training for home demon- 
stration workers (abs.), 554; A unified 
program of extension work for the 
farm home, 615; See also Social Work 



Factors to be considered in planning the 
establishment of a cafeteria, 314 

Factors determining the quality of white 
sauce in large quantity cooking (abs.), 
575 

Factors influencing nutrition work among 
Italians, 14 

Farm woman and her sewing, 139 

Fat used in deep fat frying (abs.), 577 

Fats and their use in pastry making, 330 

Fedde, Margaret. Content of the first 
year college course in food following 
two year course in high school (abs.) 538 

Fellowships: Univ. of Chicago, 49; Wom- 
en's Educ. and Indus. Union, 205 

Fisher, Katharine. Report of sub-com- 
mittee on teaching dietetics to student 
nurses, 75 

Fisher, !Mary Ri-Tb. Home economics for 
boys, 59, (abs.), 540 

Fitzgerald, LoL^SE. The home economics 
work of business organizations in food 
(abs.), 567 

Floor oils, 137 

Food Selection: See Food Values 

Food Values: Digestibility of rolled oats 
prepared in various ways, 9; How 
China uses the soy bean as food, 63; 
Iron analysis of kale and turnip greens, 
131; Physiological and food chemistry 
in the home economics laboratorj', 486; 
Value of whale meat as human food, 267; 
See also Cookery; Diet; Xutrition 

Foreign: See H. E. Abroad; Social Work 

Eraser, Rose. Testing merchandise (abs.) 
542 

Fuel: Computing heating values, 139; 
Data on water heating in the home, 138; 



The relative cost of gas and electricity 
for cooking purposes (abs.), 580 



Gawler, Mrs. Joseph C. The home with- 
in and without (abs.), 568 

GiLLETT, Lucy. Factors influencing nutri- 
tion work among Italians, 14; Need for 
information on racial dietary customs, 
258 

Gixason, Agnes. Administration prob- 
lems, 121 

Goodrich, Annie W. Women's part in 
the national health program (abs.), 
525 

Gradwohl, Rebecca, J. Teamwork in the 
family, 493 

Great need for information on racial dietary 
customs, 258 

H 

H.\iNES, S. Deborah. A budget project in 
three state colleges for women, 125 

H.ARR1S0N, Rachel. Project method of 
teaching lunch room and special cook- 
ery, 375 

Hawley, Edith. Calcium requirements of 
children, 413 

Health: The content of health courses in 
the colleges (abs.), 539; Women's part 
in the national health program (abs.), 
525; See also Editorials; Nutrition; 
Social Work 

Hedger, Caroline. What the community 
owes the child (abs.), 524 

Hewitt, Harriet J. The application of 
design and color to millinery, 368 

Hill, Mrs. J. F. Your child and mine 
(abs.), 570 

HiixsTROM, Elij;n. The need for recog- 
nizing art principles in the teaching of 
home economics, 55 

The home within and without (abs.), 568 

Home Economics Abroad: Australia* 412, 
457; Austria 107, 206*; Belgium 457*, 
(Ed.) 143; Chma* 296; Constantino- 
ple* 45, 206, 353; Denmark* 206; 
England* 51, 106, 157, 457; Germany* 
206; India 296*, 530; New Zealand 530; 
Porto Rico 529; Roumania 530; See 
also International Congress 

Home economics in adult classes (abs.), 
556 



660 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Home economics for boys 59, (abs.), 540 

Home economics and the business world 
(abs.), 523 

Home Economics in Business: Broadcasting 
home economics through the magazines 
(abs.), 565; The educational work of 
business organizations (abs.), 566; Home 
economics in business*, 100; Home 
economics and the busmess world (abs.), 
523; The home economics work of 
business organizations in foods (abs.), 
567; Nutrition: its application to com- 
mercial and industrial problems (abs.), 
537 

Home economics clubs: See Extension Work; 
News 

Home economics in India and New Zealand 
(abs.), 530 

Home economics and international rela- 
tions, 389 

Home Economics Movement: Achieve- 
ments of home economics, 5; The 
President's address, 519; Larger rela- 
tionships of home economics (abs.), 
528; Present status of h. e. education 
255; Reconstruction days in home 
economics, 361 

Home economics in Porto Rico (abs.), 529 

Home economics in Roumania (abs.), 532 

Home economics teacher and community 
interest in nutrition, 1 

Home economics teaching load, 477 

Home economics and the U. S. Dept. of 
Agr. (abs.), 526 

The home economics work of business organ- 
izations in food (abs.), 567 

Homemaking as a phase of citizenship, 27 

Home management work in the extension 
field (abs.), 563 

Home problems for household manage- 
ment classes, 416 

Home projects in the seventh and eighth 
grades (abs.), 541 

Household brushes, 278 

Household Management: Aims of home 
management (abs.), 563; Cedar chests, 
140; Computing heating values, 139; 
Data on water heating in the home, 138; 
Energy expenditure for household tasks 
621, (abs.), 573; The farm woman and 
her sewing, 139; Home management 
work in the extension field (abs.), 563; 



Home problems for household manage 
ment classes, 416; The home within and 
without (abs.), 568; Homemaking as 
a phase of citizenship, 27; Household 
brushes, 278; Making a success out of 
family life, 183; Motion study and 
costing in household and home organ- 
ization, 418; The need for the applica- 
tion of the fundamental principles of 
economics in the home (abs.), 560; 
Organization and administration of 
household management work (abs.), 
562; The price of progress, 133; Report 
of a test of floor oils, 137; Teamwork 
in the family, 493; Your child and mine 
(abs.), 570; See also Economics; Mar- 
keting; Standards 
Housekeeping on a farm in northern Spain, 

437 
How China uses the soy bean as food, 63 
Hygiene: See Clothing and Textiles; Health 



I 



Institution Management: Administration 
problems, 121; The call of the business 
world for trained workers, 23; Campus 
tea room, 168; Collegiate training of 
dietitians, 70; A course in buying insti- 
tutional equipment and supplies, 373; 
Dormitory dining hall management and 
institutional teaching (abs.), 549; Fac- 
tors determining the quality of white 
sauce in large quantity cooking (abs.), 
575; Institution management and the 
preparation for it, 370; A new phase of 
institutional management (abs.), 550; 
Planning the establishment of a cafe- 
teria, 314; Project method of teaching 
lunch room and special cookery, 375; 
Rural school lunch today, 128; Sum- 
mer's experience in institutional work, 
331; Teaching dietetics to student 
nurses, 75; Teaching institution manage- 
ment (abs.), 548; Training of dietitians 
in hospitals and medical schools, 82; 
The training of hospital dietitians 
(abs.), 545; Training for institutional 
work (O. P.), 144, 339, 398; See also 
Cooperative 

Internal temperatures of foods during cook- 
ing (abs.), 579 



1922] 



nSTDEX TO VOLUME XIV 



661 



International congress on home economics, 

389, (resolutions) 533 
Iron analysis of kale and turnip greens, 

131 



Jacobson, Lydia. Laundering, 109 

Johnson, A. Grace. Organization and 
administration of household manage- 
ment work (abs.), 562 

Journalism: Broadcasting home economics 
through the magazines (abs.), 565; 
H. e. journalism (Ed.), 336; Teaching 
classes of half a million (abs.), 558 

Juniper, Annte B. Native dietary on Niufi 
Island, 612 



KiRKWooD, J. E. Botanical instruction 
for students of home economics, 309 

Kitchens: See Cooperative; Extension Work; 
Institution Management 

Koehne, ISIartha. Cooperative child nu- 
trition service (abs.), 535; Nutrition 
experiments (abs.), 580 



Langworthy, C. F. Report of work on 
energy expenditure for sewing and 
some other household tasks 621, (abs.), 
573 
Laundering, 109 

Lawrence, M. Minerva. .Home manage- 
ment work in the extension field (abs.), 
563 
Legislation: Maternity Bill (Ed.), 36 
Lines of research in home economics (abs.), 

572 
Long, Alma. The paper dress form, 379 
Luncheon: See Cafeteria; School Lunch 
LusBY, Ruth. The teaching of institution 
management and the curriculum for 
proper instrucdon (abs.), 548 

M 

McCoRMiCK, Mary G. The home eco- 
nomics teacher and community interest 
in nutrition, 1 

MacDonald, Mrs. Elizabeth. Teaching 
classes of half a million (abs.), 558 

McGowan, Ellen Beers. Progress report 
on the petticoat test, 20 



Making a success out of family life, 183 

Malnutrition: See Children; Nutrition 

Maxn, a. R. The relation of the extension 
speciahst to the resident staff in home 
economics, 159 

Maresch, Maru. The reform of girls' 
schools in Austria, 107 

Market myths, 435 

Market preferences, 275 

Marketing: A course in marketing, 220; 
Market myths, 435; Market prefer- 
ences, 275; The price of progress, 133; 
See also Economics 

Marlatt, Abby. Achievements of home 
economics, 5; Report of the sub-com- 
mittee on collegiate training of dieti- 
tians, 70 

Mass child feeding in Germany, 207 

Mathematics needed in elementary clothing, 
465 

Maxwell, M. A new phase of institutional 
management (abs.), 550 

Meat prices and the housewife, 281 

Meetings: See under names of assns. 

Menus: See Food Values 

Methods of vitamine investigation, 364 

Meuser, Mary Louise, Factors determin- 
ing the quality of white sauce in large 
quantity cooking (abs.), 575 

Milam, Lottie. The rural school lunch 
today, 128 

Miller, Elizabeth. Lines of research 
in home economics (abs.), 572; Methods 
of vitamin investigation, 364 

Monroe, Day. Meat prices and the house- 
wife, 281 

Moran, Mary Haley. Home economics 
in Roumania (abs.), 532 

Morgan, Agnes Fay. Research in physi- 
ological and food chemistry in the home 
economics laboratory, 486; The value 
of whale meat as human food, 267 

Motion study and costing in household and 
home organization, 418 

MuDGE, Gertrude Gates. Evoludon of 
a nutrition class program, 421 

Murphy, Eda Lord. A course in buying 
institutional equipment and supplies, 
373; Our campus tea room, 168 

Mustard, Alice H. Dormitory dining 
hall management and institutional 
teaching (abs.), 549 



662 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



N 

National child health council (Ed.), 441, 516* 
Native dietary on Niue Island, 612 
Need for the application of the fundamental 
principles of economics in the home 
(abs.), 560 
Need for recognizing art principles in the 

teaching of home economics, 55 
New phase of institutional management 

(abs.), 550 
News: 

Affihated assns., 356 

Ala. Polytechnic Institute, 646 

The Ala. State Home Economics Assn., 

297 
Amer. Assn. Univ. Women, 644 
Amer. Child Hygiene Assn., 458, 643 
Amer. Dietetic Assn., 99, 458, 517, 643 
A. H. E. A. meetings, 45, 97, 151, 197, 

249^ 295, 349 
American women's hospitals, 254 
Anilin dyes, 645 
Annual alumni reunion at Teachers 

College, 252 
Annual meeting of the Iowa county 

agents, 154 
Ark. Education Assn., home economics 

section, 47 
Arizona State Teachers Assn., home 

economics section, 101 
Assn. to Promote Proper Housing for 

Girls, 645 
Assn. of Teachers of Domestic Science 

of England, 457 
Auburn home economics teachers, 252 
Australia, 457 

Baltimore Home Economics Assn., 155 
Better babies at West Allis, Wis., 204 
Boys and girls clubs, 460 
Bradley Institute, 406 
Budget service in banks, 514 
Buffalo normal school, 651 
Buffalo public schools, 462 
California Home Economics Assn., 199, 

297 
Camp Roosevelt, 355 
Ceramic research, 458 
Child health class, 251 
Child health program, 516 
Child Welfare conference, Brussels, 158 
Circuit plan of vocational home eco- 
nomics, 301 



Cleveland Home Economics Assn., 105 
A clothing project, 460 
Clothing for unemployed, 252 
College entrance credits in commercial 

subjects, 645 
College of Industrial Arts, Denton, 

Tex., 253, 653 
Colorado Agr. College, 513 
Conference of the city supervisors, 100 
Conference on infant welfare, 158 
Conn. Home Economics Assn., 251 
Conn. State Agr. College, 459 
Constantinople College, 45, 206, 353 
Construction for housing, 153 
Contest for girls in vocational h. e., 407 
Continuation work, London, 158 
A cooperative experiment, 515 
Cooperative extension work, U. S. Dept. 

of Agr., 253 
County home demonstration agents of 

Ala., 250 
Course in family social work, 252 
Course for student dietitians, 412 
A creed for elementary cooking teachers, 

50 
A degree in household science. Kings 

CoUege, 158 
Dept. of public welfare and the health 

exposition, N. Y. City, 201 
Des iloines salary schedule, 251 
Detroit program against malnutrition, 

406 
Diet lectures, 105 

Diet standards of school children, 203 
Dietetic Assn. of Southeastern Michi- 
gan, 251,358 
Dietitians needed in U. S. public health 

service, 52 
Domestic arts section of the Phila. H. 

E. Assn., 409 
Domestic arts students, Alpine, Tex., 

410 
Domestic labour-saving competition, 

106 
The Drexel Institute, 359 
Dunwoody Institute, Minneapolis, 359 
East Technical high school, Cleveland, 

202 
Eastern states exposition, Springfield, 

650 
EUen H. Richards club, 251 
Executive secretary, 644 



1922] 



INDEX TO VOLUME XTV 



663 



News — Continued. 

Exhibition of articles suitable for Christ- 
mas problems, 105 
Experiment stations in Alaska, 254 
The farm home and the national agri- 
cultural conference, 197 
The feeding of children in Austria, 206 
Fellowships, 49, 205 
The first annual exhibit of women's 

activities, 462, 651 
The first Pan American Congress of 

Women, 354 
Florida Home Economics Assn., 199 
Florida State College for Women, 298, 

646 
The food class of the Lincoln junior 

high school, 409 
Food forum at Teachers College, 50 
The fourth annual junior extension con- 
ference, 410 
Gen. Fed. of Women's Clubs, 644 
The Georgia Home Economics Assn., 

459 
Girls home economics club work, la., 

357 
The Girls' League of the Brookline high 

school, 200 
Government needs dietitians, 360 
The graduate school of education of 

Harvard Univ., 300 
Health visitors, 158 
Health week, 51 
High school dormitory, 649 
High school dress reform, 106 
Home bureau, McLean Co., 111., 298 
Home Canner's Assn., 303 
Home demonstration work, 515 
H. E. Assn. of Greater New York, 104, 

201, 252, 650 
Home economics in business, 100 
Home economics in China, 296 
Home economics conferences, 405, 410 
H. e. dept., Albuquerque. 301 
H. E. dept.. University of Maryland, 357 
Home economics extension, 646 
Home economics in India, 296 
A home management project, 463 
H. e. section, Assn. of Land-Grant 

Colleges, 644 
H. e. section, Central Arts Assn. of Pa., 

409 
H. e. section of schooLmen's week, 409 



H. e. section, Voc. Educ. Society of 

W. Va., 157 
Home economics teachers popularize 

work, 358 
Home economics workers in Utah, 253 
Homemaking in vocational classes for 

Spanish American women, 462 
Hotel management, 514 
Household arts dept.. Woman's Club of 

Oxford, 104 
Housewives League of Providence, 103 
Illinois Home Economics Assn., 47, 459 
Indiana Home Economics Assn., 102 
International Assn. for Promotion of 

Child Welfare, 457 
The International Federation of Univ. 

Women, 158 
Iowa club news, 154 
Iowa Home Economics Assn., 153 
Iowa State College, 102, 299, 356, 647 
The Junior Red Cross, 156 
Kansas State Agr. College, 154, 200 
Kansas teachers meetings, 154 
Ky. Home Economics Assn., 648 
Ky. State Teachers H. E. Conference, 

460 
Lantern slide lectures on child welfare, 

516 
Leaders' training groups, 300 
La. Home Economics Assn., 299 
Md. Home Economics Assn., 357 
Mass. Institute of Technology Women's 

Assn., 300 
Mass. Minimum Wage Commission, 103 
The Meat Council of N. Y., 104 
Meeting with the N. E. A., 355, 461 
A memorial service for Dean MacKay, 

153 
Mich. Home Economics Assn., 357, 406 
Millinery clubs, 301 
Milwaukee-Downer College, 360, 463 
Mo. State Home Economics Confer- 
ence, 649 
Modem millinery, 640 
Montana Home Economics Assn., 252 
National Catholic Service School, 101 
National League for Women Voters, 206 
A national merchandise fair, 406 
National Society for Voc. Educ, 152, 

516 
Nebr. Conference of Voc. H. E. 

Teachers, 461 



664 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



News — Continued. 

Nebr. Educational Assn., 649 

The Nebr. Home Economics Assn., 299 

Nebr. home economics workers, 461 

Nebr. Wesleyan Univ., 300, 649 

New England H. E. Assn., 102, 200, 

300, 358, 650 
A new practice house at Ohio State 

Univ., 104 
New York Nutrition Council, 408 
New York State Home Economics 

Assn., 103, 650 
New York Wholesale Grocers' Assn., 

201 
North Carolina State H. E. Assn., 301 
North Dakota State Teachers Assn., 

h. e. section, 104 
Nursery schools, 157 
Nutrition classes, 648 
Nutrition institute, 461 
Nutrition work, 460 
Nutrition work in Germany, 206 
Office of h. e. U. S. Dept. Agr., 254 
Ohio H. E. Assn., 156, 302, 359, 514, 653 
Ohio State Univ., 653 
Ohio Teachers Assn., h. e. sections, 48 
Omicron Nu, Univ. of Kansas, 106 
Own your own home exposition, 156 
Pa. State Educational Dept., 463 
Pa. State College, 514 
Pan Amer. International Committee of 

Women, 516 
Phila. Home Economics Assn., 48 
Popularizing h. e. in Madison high 

schools, 412 
Practical instruction in Enghsh schools, 

51 
Project leader training, 302 
PubUc health exhibit, 652 
Public health service institutes, 153 
A pupil dietitian's course, 458 
Purdue University, 647 
The school bacteriologist, 157 
School for servants, Denmark, 206 
Series of movable schools in Idaho, 298 
Sewing exhibit, Buffalo, 155 
Shoes, 101 

Simmons College, 461 
Social service, a profession, 303 
South Carolina H. E. Assn., 409 
South Dakota Education Assn., IDS 



Southern Home Economics Assn., 356 
Special lectures for parents, 405 
State College of Washington, 411 
State supervisors of h. e., 52 
State Teachers Assn. of Md., home 

economics section, 154 
Story County (Iowa) farm men and 

women, 299 
The Stout Institute, 360 
Subscription contest, 405 
Summer work, N. M., 513 
Survey of the public schools of Phila., 

302 
Syracuse Univ., College of Home 

Economics, 408 
Teacher trainers, 52 
Teacher training, 410 
Teaching laundering, 462 
Teachers College, 104, 156, 301, 513 
Tennessee Home Economics Assn., 302 
Texas Home Economics Assn., 47 
Uncle Sam's model village, 51 
University of Arizona 199, 297, 356, 646 
Univ. of Chicago, 200 
Univ. of Idaho, 646 
Univ. of Missouri, 157, 649 
Univ. of Nebraska, 299, 460, 649 
Univ. of Nevada, 49 
Univ. of North Dakota, 202 
Univ. of Penna., 52 
Univ. of South Dakota, 203, 463 
Univ. of Vermont, 203 
Univ. of Washington, 411 
Univ. of Wisconsin, 411, 463 
Utah Educational Assn., 105 
Utah H. E. Association, 359, 410 
Vacation canning classes, 650 
Vocational conferences, 152 
Vocational high school, Nevada, 49 
Vocational h. e. teachers (N. C), 302 
Vocational h. e. teachers, Denton, Tex., 

49 
West Virginia University, 204 
Western Arts Association, 157 
Wisconsin H. E. Association, 360 
Women in public health service, 51 
Women's activities exhibit, 651 
Women's foundation for health, 644 
Nutrition: Basal metabolism and food con- 
sumption of underweight college women, 
171, 226; Basal metabolism of women 



1922] 



INDEX TO VOLUME XIV 



665 



Nutrition — Continued. 

and underweight children, 117; Calcium 
requirements of children, 413; Cooper- 
ative child nutrition service (abs.), 535; 
Evolution of a nutrition class program, 
421; Home economics teacher and 
community interest in nutrition, 1 
Methods of vitamin investigation, 364 
Native dietary on Niue Island, 612 
Nutrition: Its. application to commer- 
cial and industrial problems (abs.), 
537; A nutridon demonstration, 616; 
Nutrition experiments (abs.), 580; Nu- 
trition work among Italians, 14; Plans 
for teaching practical nutrition to the 
public (abs.), 536; The present status 
of experimental rickets, 601 ; Studies of 
carbohydrate tolerance of normal 
women (abs.), 577; See also Editorial; 
Children; Diet; Food Values; Research; 
Social Work 

Nutrition demonstration, 616 

Nutririon e.xperiments (abs.), 580 

Nutrition: Its applicadon to commercial 
and industrial problems (abs.), 537 

O 

O'Brien, Rdth. Effect of bleaching on 
tensile strength of cotton fabrics, 262, 
382; Research methods in textiles (abs.), 
541 
Open Forum: 

Bread-making inquiry, 146 

Calories from Eskimo pie and ice cream 

sandwich, 342 
The Christmas project, 637 
A College demonstration, 396 
Community clothing centers, 449 
Establishing standards in practice field 

work in tra inin g for institutional 

administration, 144, 339, 398 
Examinations in high school food 

courses, 446 
Family budget, 285 
Home economics in the citrus fruit 

region, 287 
The national income of housewives, 240 
Practice work in institutional courses, 

398 
The service of the library to the home 

economics department, 506 
Standard measures, 189 



A student cost of living study, 192 
Table service, US 

Teacher-rating as a means of improving 
home economics teachers in service, 85 

Opportunities in home economics: Call of 
the business world for trained workers, 
23; Choosing a Ufe work, 432; See also 
Home Economics in Business; Institu- 
tion Management 

Organization and administration of house- 
hold management work (abs.), 562 

Our campus tea room, 168 



Paper dress form, 379 

Phelps, Ethel L. An analysis of text- 
books in clothing and textiles, 471, 625 

Physiological and food chemistry in the 
home economics laboratory, 486 

Plans for teaching practical nutrition to the 
pubhc (abs.), 536 

Platt, Anne C. Home projects in the 
seventh and eighth grades (abs.), 541 

Positions: See Opportunities in H. E. 

Present status of experimental rickets. 601 

Present status of home economics education, 
255 

President's address, 519 

Price, Mary Louise. Effect of bleaching 
on tensile strength of cotton fabrics, 
262, 382 

Price of progress, 133 

Proctor, Margahet A. Factors to be 
considered in planning the establish- 
ment of a cafeteria, 314 

Progress report on the petticoat test, 20 

Project: See Study and Teaching 

Project method of teaching lunch room and 
special cookery, 375 

PUGSLEY, C. W. Are home demonstration 
programs of work educationally sound, 
economically important, sociologically 
constructive? (abs.), 552; H. e. and the 
U. S. Dept. of Agr. (abs.), 526 

Q 
Question Box: Freezing and vitamins, 186; 
Spices, 241 ; Sugar and citrus fruits, 242 



Raitt, Effie I. Special methods course 
in home economics, 223 



666 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Rath, Lois M. Artificial silk, 425 

Ration: See Nutrition 

Recent developments in the scouring and 
bleaching of cotton, 212 

Reconstruction days in home economics, 361 

Reese, Madge J. A unified program of 
extension work for the farm house, 615 

Reform of girls' schools in Austria, 107 

Relation of the extension specialist to the 
resident staff in home economics, 159 

Relative cost of gas and electricity for 
cooking purposes (abs.), 580 

Report on rural life survey (abs.), 552 

Report of sub-committee on collegiate 
training of dietitians, 70 

Report of sub-committee on professional 
training of dietitians in hospitals and 
medical schools, 82 

Report of sub-committee on teaching die- 
tetics to student nurses, 75 

Report of a test of floor oils, 137 

Research: Cooperation between home dem- 
onstration and research specialists 
(abs.), 553; Current home economics 
research, 181, 233; Effect of cooking 
upon andscorbutic vitamin in cabbage, 
(abs.) 578; Factors determining quality 
of white sauce in large quantity cooking 
(abs.), 575; Internal temperatures of 
foods during cooking (abs.), 579; Lines 
of research in home economics (abs.), 
572; Methods of vitamin investigation, 
364; Nutrition experiments (abs.), 580; 
Peanut flour as supplement to wheat, 
(abs.) 579; Relative cost of gas and elec- 
tricity for cooking purposes (abs.), 580; 
Research methods in te.xtUes (abs.), 
541; Research in physiological and 
food chemistry, 486; Research problem 
in household physics, 273; Research in 
the University of Chicago (abs.), 573; 
Standards in home economics research 
(abs.), 572; A study of fat used in deep 
fat frying (abs.), 577; Studies on calcium 
and magnesium metabolism in normal 
women (abs.), 619; Studies of carbohy- 
drate tolerance of normal women (abs.), 
577; Studies on jeUy and butter cake 
(abs.), 576; Suggestions for research 
in marketing or dietetics, 330; See also 
Clothing and Textiles; Cookery; Food 
Values; Nutrition; Study and Teaching 



Research methods in textiles (abs.), 541 

Research in physiological and food chemistry 
in the home economics laboratory, 486 

Research in the Univ. of Chicago (abs.), 573 

Richards, Lenoee. Analysis of the field 
of institution management and the 
preparation for it, 370 

Richardson, Axna E. Home economics in 
adult classes (abs.), 556 

Rickets, The present status of experimental, 
601 

Rickets and sunlight (Ed.), 239 

Rogers, Jeannette. My summer's experi- 
ence in institutional work, 331 

Rosa, Bess Naylor. Home problems for 
household management classes, 416 

Rose, Glenola Behling. Dyestuffs, 328 

Rose, Mary Swartz. Some experiments 
on the digestibiUty of rolled oats pre- 
pared in various ways, 9 

RowE, Bess M. Home economics in the 
business world (abs.), 523; A report on 
rural life survey (abs.), 552 

Rural school lunch today, 128 

Rural Work: See Extension Work; Study 
and Teaching 



Sanitation: See Health 

Schermerhorn, Grace. Equipment in ele- 
mentary and junior high schools, 320 

School: See Study and Teaching 

School Lunch: The rural school lunch today, 
128; See also Institution Management; 
Study and Teaching 

Score cards: Devices in teaching clothing 
construction, 322; Teacher rating (O.F.), 
85 

Score cards as devices in teaching clothing 
construction, 322 

Section and group meetings: Food and nutri- 
tion, 535-540; Home economics in busi- 
ness, 565-568; Home economics educa- 
rion, 556-559; Home economics exten- 
sion, 552-556; Homemakers', 568-571; 
Household management 560-564; In- 
stitution economics, 545-551; Science, 
572-580; TextUe, 541-544 

Sellers, Marie. Broadcasting home eco- 
nomics through the magazines (abs.), 
565 

Service: See Table Service 



1922] 



rNDEX TO VOLUME XTV 



667 



Sewing: See Clothing and Textiles 

Sherman, CarolevE. ilarket mytlis, 435; 
Market preferences, 275; The price of 
progress, 133 

Sherman, H. C. Calcium requirements of 
children, 413 

SnoioNDS, Xdja. The present status of 
experimental rickets, 601 

Smail, J. C. Motion study and costing in 
household and home organization, 418 

Smith, Margery M. Plans for teaching 
practical nutrition to the public (abs.), 
536 

Smith, Rttby Green. Additional special 
training for home demonstration 
workers (abs.), 554 

Snyder, Meussa Farrell. Report of a 
• test of floor oik, 137 

Social agencies in the coal fields of West 
Virginia, 114 

Social Work: Evolution of a nutrition class 
program, 421; Home economics teachers 
and community interest in nutrition, 1; 
Mass child feeding in Germany, 207; 
Need for information on racial dietary 
customs, 258; Nutrition work among 
Italians, 14; Social agencies in the coal 
fields of West Virginia, 114; What the 
community owes the child (abs.), 524; 
See also Extension Work; Nutrition 

Some experiments on the digestibility of 
rolled oats prepared in various ways, 9 

Some of the larger relationships of home 
economics (abs.), 528 

Soy bean as food in China, 63 

Special methods course in home economics, 
223 

Standards: Household brushes, 278; Meas- 
uring cup (O.F.), 190; Standards in 
home economics research (abs.), 572; 
Standards for insdtutional training 
(O.F.), 144, 339, 398; Standards for 
work in elementary schools (Ed.), 
394; Variations in volume of household 
measuring cups (abs.), 576; Weights of 
one cupful of food material, 270; See 
also Editorials; Score Cards 
Standards in home economics research 

(abs.), 572 
Stankovitch, Leposava. The budget, 333 



Stanley, LotnsE. Adjustments desirable 
in teacher training institutions (abs.), 
559 

Stewart, Je.^n. Variarions in volume of 
household measuring cups (abs.), 576 

Storms, Lillian B. Recent developments 
in the scouring and bleaching of cotton, 
212 

Strong, Ann Gilchrist. Home economics 
in India and New Zealand (abs.), 530 

Studies on calcium and magnesium metab- 
olism in normal women (abs.), 619 

Studies of carbohydrate tolerance of normal 
women (abs.), 577 

Studies on jelly and butter cake (abs.), 576 

Studley, Lucy A. Aims of home manage- 
ment (abs.), 563 

Study and Teaching: Achievements of home 
economics, 5; Adjustments desirable in 
teacher training institutions (abs.), 
559; Aims of home management (abs.), 
563; Art principles in the teaching of 
home economics, 55; Botanical instruc- 
tion for students of home economics, 
309; A budget project in three state 
colleges for women, 125; A clothing 
project, 430; Collegiate training of 
dietitians, 70; Content of the first 
year college course in food (abs.), 538; 
Content of health courses in the college 
(abs.), 539; A course in buying institu- 
tional equipment and supplies, 373; 
A course in marketing, 220; Dormitory 
dining hall management and institu- 
tional teaching (abs.), 549; Equipment 
in elementary and junior high schools, 
320; Extension specialist and resident 
staff, 159; Home economics in adult 
classes (abs.), 556; Home economics for 
boys, 59, (abs.), 540; The home econom- 
ics teacher and community interest in 
nutrition, 1; Home economics teaching 
load, 477; Homemaking as a phase of 
citizenship, 27; Home problems for 
household management classes, 416; 
Home projects in the seventh and 
eighth grades (abs.), 541; Mathematics 
needed in elementary clothing, 465; 
Organization and administration of 
household management work (abs.), 
562; The paper dress form, 379; Present 



668 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Study and Teaching — Continued. 

status of home economics education, 
255; Project method of teaching lunch 
room and special cookery, 375; Recon- 
struction days in home economics, 361 ; 
Reform of girls' schools in Austria, 107; 
Rural school lunch today, 128; Score 
cards as devices in teaching clothing 
construction, 322; Special methods 
course in home economics, 223; Teacher 
rating (O.F.), 85; Teaching classes of 
half a million (abs.), 558; Teaching 
dietetics to student nurses, 75; Teaching 
institution management (abs.), 548; 
Training dietitians in hospitals and 
medical schools, 82; See also Editorial; 
Open Forum 
Study of fat used in deep frying (abs.), 577 
Suggestions for a home economics research 

problem in household physics, 273 
Suggestions for research in marketing or 

dietetics, 330 
Summer's institutional work, 331 
Sweeny, Mary E. President's address, 519 



Table service (O.F.), 448 

Tatum, Mary Carter. Fats and their 
use in pastry making, 330 

Tea room: See Cafeteria; Institution Man- 
agement 

Teacher rating (O.F.), 85 

Teaching: See Study and Teaching 

Teaching classes of half a million (abs.), 558 

Teaching institution management (abs.), 
548 

Teamwork in the family, 493 

Testing merchandise (abs.), 542 

Thrift: See Economics 

Thrift kitchen as an asset in city home 
bureau work (abs.), 564 

Todd, Elizabeth. Score cards as devices 
in teaching clothing construction, 322 

Training hospital dietitians (abs.), 545 

Treat, Nola. Analysis of the field of insti- 
tution management and the preparation 
for it, 370 

U 

Unified program of extension work for the 
farm home, 615 



Value of whale meat as human food, 267 
Van Deman, Ruth. Household brushes 

278 
Variations in volume of household measuring 

cups (abs.), 576 
Vitamin investigation, 364 
Vitamine's the thing (verse), 335 
Vitamines: See Cookery; Editorial; Food 

Values; Nutrition; Research 



W 



Wardell, Emma L. Studies of carbohy- 
drate tolerance of normal women (abs.), 
577 
Weights of one cupful of food material, 270 
Wells, Eleanor F. Early English cus- 
toms, 496 
What the community owes the child (abs ) 

524 
Wheeler, Ruth. Report of sub-committee 
on professional training of dietitians in 
hospitals and medical schools, 82 
Whitacre, Jessie. Home economics teach- 
ing load, 477; Studies on jelly and butter 
cake (abs.), 576 
Wholesale prices in U. S. and Canada, 140 
Williams, Florence. Present status of 

home economics education, 255 
Willsey, Elsie Mae. Home economics 

in Porto Rico (abs.), 529 
Willy, John. The call of the business 

world for trained workers, 23 
Wilson, Isabella. Social agencies in the 

coal field of W. Va., 114 
WmcHELL, Cora M. Homemaking as a 

phase of citizenship, 27 
WiNSLOW, Emma. Home economics and 

international relations, 389 
Women's part in the national health pro- 
gram (abs.), 525 
Woodruff, Sybil. Weights of one cupful 

of food material, 270 
WooLMAN, Mary Schenck. Choosing a 
life work, 432 



Vour child and mine (abs.), 570 



TX Journal of home economics 
J7 

Food 

Science* 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



