TRIED ,A^.D TRUE 






■"^^•••**1'i-i-^,-,. 



■r\ 



hUJ 




'j'it ' Xi^k}} 



■^l 



1^-^ 



TOBERT R. MAN^ 

LIBRAR> 

AT 

LOKiSELL UNIVERSITY 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086745928 



RECIPES 
TRIED AND TRUE 



COMPILED BY 

Freda R. Lavine 



YONKERS, NEW YORK 
1922 



CoMMANDAY-RoTH Co., Ikc; Printers, New York 



CONTENTS 



p\ 



Introductory 

Appetizers 7 

Soups 11 

Fish 15 

Entrees . 21 

Meats, Poultry and Game ... .27 

Vegetables . . 35 

Salads 41 

Hot Puddings 45 

Cold and Frozen Puddings 53 

Pies 61 

Bread, Biscuits and Rolls 67 

Cakes and Cookies 72) 

Cake Fillings and Icings 91 

Sauces for Fish, Meats and Puddings . . 95 

Sandwiches 101 

Eggs, Omelets and Pancakes 103 

Passover Dishes 107 

Household Hints 115 

Candies 119 

Conserves ... 123 . 




INTRODUCTORY 

The air of home — the purest and 
the best there is — Ood bless 
home and all belonging to it. 

fO MUCH depends up- 
on good cooking, as 
regards the welfare of 
a nation, the health of its people 
and their happiness in their 
homes, and so much harm is done 
bjr cooking which is either simply 
bad, or else clever but turned to 
wrong use, that the time must 
certainly come when this im- 
portant science will be taught to 
children of all classes. As long 
as the lives of men, women and 
children depend upon food, the 
right preparation of food is a 
subject which is well worthy of 
anyone's serious study, and a 
queen is none the worse a queen 
if she can cook food that would 
not make her people ill. 

To all good husbands we dedi- 
cate this book, in the hope that 
their wives may profit by the 
humble lessons taught therein. 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



".Vow let good digestion u'oit on afpetitc' 



APPETIZERS 



CRAB COCKTAIL 

Pick well-seasoned boiled crabs, mix with a little chopped cel- 
ery and put on ice. Just before serving, place crab meat in 
glasses and 'serve with cocktail sauce. 

CREAM CHEESE PASTE 

1 lb. cream cheese, 1 grated onion, 

1 cup cream or 2 table- 1 tablespoon Worcester- 

spoons butter, shire sauce. 

Mix well, cheese, onion, cream or butter and Worcestershire 
sauce. Serve on bread or crackers. 

CREAM CHEESE 

1^. cake cream cheese, ^ pint cream. 

Jelly. 

Cream cheese, beat cream thick and mix. Add enough jelly 
to color. 

FISH CANAPE 

% lb. cooked fish, Dash black pepper, 

Few drops onion juice. Few chopped capers, 

^2 teaspoonful salt, 3 tablespoons sauce 

Tartare. 

Rub fish to a paste, season with onion juice, salt, pepper and 
ca:pers. Stir into it sauce tartar. Spread on six or eight rounds 
of buttered toast, garnish with'Jchopped cress. 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



HERRING SALAD 

3 herrings, Small onion, 

3 apples. Pinch pepper, 

3 boiled potatoes, ^ cup sugar, 
Yz cup mixed nuts. Few capers, 

14 cup chopped veal. Four hard boiled eggs, 

1 pickle. Vinegar. 

Clean and pick to pieces herring; chop apples, potatoes, nuts, 
veal, pickle, onion and mix with pepper, sugar, capers and whites 
of eggs. j\Iix with yolks of eggs and a little vinegar. 

MOCK PATE DE FOIE GRAS ' 

Yi lb. calves liver, 4 slices bacon, 

4 slices onion, 4 mushrooms, 

Salt and pepper. 
Pour boiling water over liver, let stand ten minutes ; drain and 
dry. Cut in dice, fry gently with onion, bacon and mushrooms. 
Liver must be cooked through, not brown when done. Turn 
contents, minus fat, into chopper; season with salt and pepper. 
Put between slices of sandwich bread. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Allow five or six small oysters to each guest. Season with 
salt, pepper, tomato catsup, lemon, Worcestershire sauce, horse- 
radish, and serve very cold. Garnish with celery and lemon. 

SARDELLEN PASTE 

Cream J^ pound sweet butter with about one dozen sardellen 
which have been soaked for about four hours. Bone sardellen 
and chop very fine before creaming. Serve on toast. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH ANCHOVIES OR SARDINES 

1 doz. hard boiled eggs, y^, Lemon, 

6 Anchovies, 1 teaspoon Worcester- 

2 tablespoons oil, shire sauce. 

Cut eggs in half lengthwise, mash yolks smooth. Into this mix 
well washed anchovies, oil from anchovies, juice of lemon, Wor- 
cestershire sauce, pepper and salt. Fill eggs and serve on lettuce. 



MEMORANDUM 



MEMORANDUM 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"Let us live 'L'.'ell, siiiil^ly, beautifully and artistically. 



CORN CHOWDER SOUP 

yz onion, 5^ cup green peppers, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 stalk celery, 

2 cups raw potatoes, 1 pint water, 

1 pint corn pulp, 1 pint hot milk, 

1 cup tomatoes, 1 tablespoon flour. 

Brown slightly onion in butter. Add diced potatoes, corn pulp, 
tomatoes, green peppers, celery in small pieces. Meanwhile have 
corn cobs cooking in water, add this water with a little more to 
vegetables and cook. As soon as potatoes are tender, pour in hot 
milk, mix flour with melted butter and add. Season to taste 
Seven portions. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

lYz quarts boiling water, 4 tablespoons butter or 
% cup diced carrots, other fat, 

Yz cup cooked carrots, 1 teaspoon sugar, 

1^ cup potatoes, 4 cloves, 

y/^ cup sliced onions, 2 teaspoons salt, 

1 cup strained tomatoes, 1^ teaspoons chopped 

parsley. 

Use all or any and as many varieties as you wish, using half 
as much vegetables as liquid. Wash, pare, scrape and cut veg- 
etables fine all but potatoes and tomatoes. Heat fat, add veg- 
etables, cook ten minutes, stirring constantly. Add potatoes, cook 
two minutes longer, add water, tomatoes and boil one hour until 
;i)l vegetables are tender. Add parsley, season and serve hot. 
Seven portions. 

11 '■' 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



SOUP STOCK 

2 lbs. beef, ^ small carrot, 

Yz meat, ^ bone, Yz small turnip, 

2 qts. water, 1 sprig parsley, 

1 small onion, ' 1 sprig celery root. 

Wipe and salt meat, put into cold water and let come slowly 
to boiling point, and skim. Add vegetables, and let simmer 
three to four hours. Strain, cool and remove fat. Mutton and 
lamb can be used the same way. 

CELERY, ASPARAGUS AND CAULIFLOWER 

SOUPS 

Cut either of these in small pieces and boil slowly in one quart 
or more of water (according to quantity required) for about one 
hour. Then rub through a sieve, reserving a few pieces of veg- 
etable for each plate. To this liquid add one quart of milk thick- 
ened with one large spoonful of butter and flour. Season with 
salt and pepper, and serve with croutons if desired. Six portions. 

CREAM OF POTATO, WITHOUT MILK 

5 large potatoes, 1 teaspoon onion juice. 

Lump of butter. Chopped parsley, 

1 tablespoon flour. Pinch thyme, 

2 yolks of eggs. 

Boil potatoes, mash through a sieve. Blend butter, flour, add 
to mashed potatoes, use water from potatoes, onion juice, parsley, 
and thyme. Just before serving beat in very quickly eggs. Serve 
with croutons. Five portions. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

Soak two cups dried split peas in water over night. Drain, 
add three quarts cold water, boil slowly but steadily four hours. 
Heat two tablespoons fat, brown one small onion cut fine; add 
two tablespoons flour and gradually one cup soup. When 
smooth add to rest of soup. Season with salt and pepper. Serve 
with croutons. Sausages, smoked, beef or tongue may be cooked 
with it to give flavor. Lentil soup is prepared in the same way. 

'■''' 12 



SOUPS 



CRAB SOUP 

Claws of 6 crabs, 1 tablespoon Hour, 

1 large spoon butter, 3 cups water, 

1 onion. Pepper, salt, 

J/2 can tomatoes, ^ cup rice. 

When using hard shelled crabs, reserve claws for soup. Wash 
very well. Brown one onion and flour in butter. Gradually add 
water. Season with pepper, salt, add tomatoes. Add claws and 
rice, cook slowly for one hour. Serve with claws in each portion. 
Six portions. 



MEMORANDUM 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



" Vet so for yoii my love doth thrk'L 
That I'd be gladly boiled alive." 



FISH 



BOILED FISH 

Clean, salt and pepper and let stand several hours. Boil 
enough water to almost cover fish with one onion cut up, one 
tablespoon carrot. Add fish (cut in pieces is better) and let 
simmer until the flesh leaves the bones. Strain and reserve 
fish stock if wanted. Serve with lemon, hollandaise, egg or 
mustard sauce. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER 

Split lobster and glaze with olive oil or butter. Broil on hot 
fire with meat side to the fire. "When well done season with salt, 
cayenne and plenty of melted butter ; or place in spider, season, 
place in oven and baste. Same for any broiling fish. 

CREAMED SALMON 

Remove skin and bone from canned salmon or cooked salmon. 
Shred and add one tablespoon lemon juice to white sauce. Serve 
hot on toast. 

DEVILED CRABS 

1 doz. live crabs, 3 crackers, 

2 eggs, Cracker dust. 
Salt, pepper, Butter, 

2 teaspoons mustard. Lemon, parsley. 

Boil crabs till red. When cold, pick out all the meat, crack 
claws, pick, reserving small ones for soup. Mix meat with eggs, 
salt, pepper, mustard according to taste, crackers soaked in water 
and pressed well. Fill shells, sprinkle with cracker dust, flakes of 
butter and bake from twenty to thirty minutes until light brown. 
Serve with slices of lemon and parsley. 

IS 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



FILLED FISH 

3 lbs,, fish, 3 eggs, 

1 onion, Yz cup soft bread crumbs, 

Salt, pepper, or ^ cup cracker crumbs, 

1 tablespoon chopped almonds, fish stock. 

Clean fish thoroughly, remove skin without breaking and flesh 
by scraping from the bones, begin at the neck. With care, the 
back bone may be removed with all the small bones attached. 
Chop flesh fine with onion juice or cut fine, salt, pepper, eggs, 
bread crumbs, almonds. Wash skin and fill with mixture. Sew 
up with coarse thread. Shake and place in gently boiling stock. 
Boil slowly until the stock is nearly absorbed. 

FILLET OF FLOUNDERS 

Use very large flounders, (fluke) or small ones which are 
meaty. Have all bone and skin removed. Season with salt and 
pepper, roll in egg and cracker dust and fry slowly in plenty of 
butter till brown. Serve with tartar sauce. 

FRIED FISH 

Clean fish, wipe dry as possible. Season with salt and pepper, 
dip in flour. Fry a golden brown in deep pot fat or butter, turn- 
ing on both sides. 

FISH BALLS 

Yi lb. fish, 1 teaspoon grated onion, 

Yz cup fine bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup milk, Y^ teaspoon pepper, 

1 egg. Water. 

Remove skin and bone from fish and chop fine. Cook bread 
crumbs and milk to a paste. Remove,.from stove, add egg, season 
with onion, salt, pepper. Mix with' fish, form into balls the size 
of a walnut. Drop into boiling salted water and cook slowly 
twenty minutes. Serve with fish sauce. 

16 



FISH 



FISHCAKES- 

Cold mashed potatoes, Salt, pepper, 

Shredded cold fish, Celery salt. 

Or cod fish shreds in Butter, 

boxes. Flour. 
1 egg. 

Take equal quantities of potatoes and fish. Alix well, add 
beaten egg, salt pepper. Shape in round cakes, dip in flour. 
Cook in spider with butter or fat until nicely brown. 

FISH OR COURT BOUILLON 
(For cooking any kind of fish) 

Sliced carrots, 2 sprigs parsley, 

1 onion. Salt, pepper, 

1 piece celery cut up, ' 1 teaspoon vinegar, or 

1 clove, lemon juice. 

1 bay leaf. 

Cook all together with enough water to cover fish. 

HALIBUT SOUFFLE 

Chop very fine two pounds raw halibut, which have been skin- 
ned and boned. Salt well, add yokes of three eggs and Yz pint 
beaten cream with well beaten whites. Butter form well, put in 
mixture, set in warm water about half way up the form and bake 
like custard for about twenty minutes. Serve immediately with- 
hollandaise sauce. Six portions. 

IMPERNADO 

Butter deep baking dish, cover bottom with layer of sliced raw 
potatoes. Sprinkle with pieces butter, salt and paprika. Cover 
with layer, finely cut, fresh fish, catsup and flour dusted over all. 
Repeat these layers alternately until the dish is nearly full leaving 
the flour for the'top. Stand in cold water and bake from three 
to four hours. 

17 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



PLANKED FISH WITH POTATO ROSES 

Split a fine fish and remove the back bone. Spread with soft 
butter, dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Have fish plank heat- 
ed in a pan in the oven, place fish on it, bake about fifteen min- 
utes. Then remove, surround with potatoes, and return to hot 
oven till brown. Garnish with lemon and parsley. 

POTATO ROSES 

Prepare mashed potatoes as usual with less cream or milk and 
place in pastry bag. Force through in the shape of a rose (using 
a star tube) all around the fish. Brush with yolk of egg mixed 
with a little water and brown quickly in oven. 

SALMON LOAF 

Yi, can salmon (or fresh 1^ cup bread crumbs, 

salmon) Salt, 

4 tablespoons butter. Paprika, 

4 eggs, Yt. teaspoon onion, 

Yi teaspoon vinegar. 

Chop fish, rejecting skin, bones and oil. Cream butter, add 
bread crumbs, eggs, salt, paprika, onion and vinegar. Mix alto- 
gether ; steam or bake in buttered bowl about one hour. 

SCHARF FISH 

3 lbs. sliced fish, 1 large tomato, 

1 tablespoon olive oil, 3 cups cold water, 

1 chopped onion, 1 tablespoon parsley, 

2 tablespoons flour. Toe of garlic. 

Salt, pepper. 

Heat oil, add onion, brown and stir in flour and brown also. 
Add slowly water. When smooth, add parsley, garlic, salt, pep- 
per and tomato cut in quarters. Add fish and cook tintil tender. 
Serve cold. 

18 



FISH 

STUFFED BAKE FISH 
(Bluefish, Shad, Sea Trout or any Large Fish) 



Yz cup bread crumbs, 
Ye, cup melted butter, 
V/i cup cracker crumbs, 
Few drops onion juice, 
Y^ teaspoon salt, 
Yt, teaspoon pepper, 
Dash paprika, 
Six portions. 

Prepare a stuffing with above ingredients and very little hot 
v^ater mixed well together. Stuff fish and bake one hour with 
little water and tomatoes in pan and a few flakes of butter on fish ; 
baste often. Serve whole and garnish with parsley and lemon. 



2 tablespoons chopped 

parsley, 
Y2 teaspoon chopped 

onion, 
1 teaspoon chopped 

pickle, 
1 teaspoon grated carrot.. 



SWEET & SOUR FISH 



Pike, trout, shad or other 

fish. 
Water to cover, 
1 tablespoon carrots cut 

fine, 
Ye, teaspoon whole pepper, 
^ cup seeded raisins, 
1 lemon sliced and seeded. 



1 tablespoon onion cut 

fine, 
1 tablespoon celery cut 

fine, 
4 ginger snaps or 5c, 

worth lebkuchen, 
Y2. cup brown sugar, 
Y^ cut vinegar. 



Clean, slice, salt and let stand over night. Boil water with 
carrots, pepper, anion, celery. Add fish and boil ten minutes. 
Add ginger snaps, brown sugar, vinegar, raisins and lemon. 
Cook till sauce is smooth and thick. Serve cold. 



19 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



TOMATO ASPIC WITH SHRIMPS 

1 lb. shrimps, % cup cold water, 

1 can tomatoes or 2 tablespoons granulated 

8 medium tomatoes or gelatine, 

1 can tomato soup. Pepper, salt, 

1 lemon, rind and juice, 1 green pepper. 

Boil shrimps till red. Boil tomatoes (strain if necessary) add 
lemon, pepper, salt, chopped peppers and shrimps. Dissolve 
gelatine in water a few minutes, add to mixture and cook till 
thick. Pour into molds, set in ice-box overnight. Serve in 
lettuce with mayonnaise. 



20 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"We may Ik'e without poetry, music and art, 
Wc may live ivithoiit conscience and live without heart; 
f/V may live luithout friends, icv inay live zi'ithout books; 
But civilized men ccinnot live without cooks." 



ENTREES 
BATTER FOR ALL FRITTERS 

lys, cups flour, 14 teaspoon salt, 

2 teaspoons baking 54 cup milk, 

powder, 1 egg. 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt ; add gradually milk, 
egg. Mix with apples cut in slices or pieces, peaches, apricots, 
pears or bananas. When using pineapple, soak in sherry or 
white wine, with a little sugar and let stand one hour. Always 
fry in plenty of fat and drain well ; sprinkle with sugar. 

BRAIN TIMBALE OR RAMIKINS 

1 pair of beef brains, % cup milk, 

1 thick piece stale white Salt, pepper, ginger, 

bread, 2 eggs. 

Soak brains in cold water one hour ; parboil twenty minutes 
in salt water and remove the membrane and mash through the 
colander. Add bread soaked in milk and squeeze dry. Season 
with salt, pepper, ginger ; add beaten eggs. Butter ramikins 
and steam ^ of an hour. Sweetbread can be prepared the same 
way. 

CHEESE BALLS 

1 cake of cream cheese, 1 tablespoon cream. 

Butter half size of cheese, ^4 teaspoon salt, 
6 dashes Tobasco sauce. Chopped nuts. 

Mix cheese with butter, sauce, cream and salt. Roll in one 
large ball or small ones and roll in nuts. Nuts may be mixed 
with cheese. Balls may be served on lettuce with mayonnais,' 

21 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

4 ounces grated cheese, "%. pint milk, 

2 ounces butter, 2 eggs, 

2 ounces inside white J^, teaspoon salt, 

bread, Cayenne. 

Mix cheese, butter, bread and beaten yolks, salt, pepper ami 
milk. Put in double boiler, heat until smooth and add beaten 
whites. Fill ramikins ^ full and put in oven six minutes. 

CHICKEN AND MUSHROOMS 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup milk, 

2 tablespoons chopped, V/i tablespoons flour, 

onions, 1 cup chicken meat in 

\yz cans mushrooms disks, 

chopped (fresh preferred) Salt, pepper. 

Melt butter ; add onion and mushrooms ; cook five minutes , 
add milk with flour. Cook altogether; when thick and smooth 
add chicken : Heat through, season and serve on buttered toast 
or in ramikins. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Chop three and one-half cups chicken very fine, add one pint 
thick white sauce. Mix as in making rice croquettes ; shape and 
cook the same way. 

CHICKEN IN RAMIKINS 

Small chicken, 34 pint of cream, 

Tablespoon butter, 1 can mushrooms, ^ 

Tablespoon flour. Juice of one lemon. 

Yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper. 

Parboil chicken, cut into small pieces. Melt butter ; add flour, 
cream, mushrooms. Cook to a thick sauce. Add chicken, lemon 
juice, eggs, salt and pepper. Grease ramikins and bake to a 
very light brown. Trim with parsley and slices of lemon. 

22 



ENTREES 



CORN FRITTERS 

2 eggs, 2 heaping tablespoons 
1 pint cooked or canned flour, 

corn, Y'i teaspoon baking 

34 teaspoon salt, powder. 

Milk. 
Mix eggs, corn, salt, sifted flour and baking powder. Add 
enough milk to make them pour easily on a hot griddle. Fry in 
plenty of butter or fat. 

CRABS A LA NEWBURG 

3 hard boiled eggs, 4 tablespoons melted 
Salt, pepper, butter, 

Yi pint sweet cream, 2 tablespoons sherry 

3 cups crab meat, wine. 

Juice of one lemon. 
Cream yolks of eggs with salt, pepper, add cream and butter. 
Cook slowly, stirring till thick. Take from fire, add wine, lemon 
juice and crab meat. 

FRICASSEE CRAB FLAKES 

4 large hard shelled 54 cup milk, 
crabs, Yt. pint cream. 

Pepper, salt, 1 green pepper cut up, 

1 small lump butter, 3 eggs. 

Pick flakes of crabs after boiling ; put into pan with butter, pep- 
per salt, cream and pepper. Let come to a boil and take from fire. 
Add beaten yolks with milk, stir well and return to fire until it 
thickens. Be careful not to boil. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

3 live lobsters, 1 cup cream, 

Yi, cup sherry. Salt, pepper, 

1 tablespoon butter. Yolks of three eggs. 

Boil lobsters twenty minutes in salt water. When cool, 
pick, put in sherry, butter and cook three minutes, always stir- 
ring. Then add cream, salt, pepper and eggs. 

23 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



LOBSTER OR CRAB FRICASSEE 

3 lobsters or 6 crabs, Dash Worcestershire 

1 onion, sauce, 

1 tablespoon chopped 4 large tomatoes, 

parsley, or % can, 

Salt, Pepper. 
Boil fish about five minutes ; pick meat when cool. Brown 
onions in butter. Add parsley, tomatoes, pepper, salt. Put in 
meat adding enough water to cover it, boil forty-five minutes, 
add sauce. Make soup from claws. 

MOCK RABBIT ON TOAST 

Yz lb. American Cheese, Butter size of egg. 

Chopped green peppers. 

Grate cheese, put in double boiler with butter. Cook with 
peppers, until thick. Spread on white bread not too fresh and 
toast until brown. 

MUSHROOM FRICASSEE 

3 lbs. mushrooms, 1 tablespoon butter, 

34 lb. butter, 1 cup cream, 

1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon sherry or 

Maderia wine. 

Saute mushrooms a few at a time until half done. Melt butter ; 
add flour and cream. When this comes to a boil add mushrooms. 
Cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Flavor with tablespoon wine. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

1 pint cold cooked rice, 1 egg, 

3 tablespoons milk, y^ teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons butter, White peper, 
Cayenne, 2 tablespoons chopped 

parsley, 

Cracker dust or bread crumbs., 

Warm rice in double boiler with milk. Add butter, egg, salt, 
pepper, parsley, and cook until it thickens. Spread on plate to 
cool, shape into rolls. Roll in crumbs; dip in eggs and roll in 
crumbs again. Cook in deep hot fat until brown. 

24 



ENTREES 



MACARONI IN TOMATO CASES 

8 tomatoes, Salt, pepper, 

1 cup boiled macaroni. Grated cheese, 

1 cup white sauce. Cracker crumbs. 

Flakes of butter. 

Cut off tops of tomatoes, scoop them out, fill with macaroni 
mixed with white sauce. Salt and pepper and some of scooped 
tomatoes. Cover with grated cheese, cracker crumbs, butter and 
bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. Serve at once. May also be 
filled with a dressing of bread crumbs, egg, chopped parsley and 
two tablespoons butter to brown crumbs. 

SWEETBREADS BAKED 

1 lb. sweetbreads, 1 tablespoon flour, 

% can mushrooms ^^ chopped onion, 

chopped, % pint cream 

1 tablespoon butter. 
Yolk of 2 eggs, parsley, breadcrumbs. 

Boil and skim sweetbreads. Allow to cool. Add mushrooms 
with sweetbreads. Melt butter, add flour, onion, cream and 
eggs. Let come to a boil. Add mixture and parsley. Put in 
greased ramikih, cover with crumbs, mixed with melted but- 
ter." Bake light brown in a pan of water. Twelve portions. 

SPAGHETTI ON LETTUCE 

Mix diced tomatoes, shredded cabbage, cold boiled spaghetti 
and boiled mayonnaise. Season and serve on lettuce. 



25 



meTmorandum 



20 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"IVe never knozv zvhat is hidden in each other's hearts; 
and if we had glass windows there, we'd need to keep the 
shutters up, some of us." 



AMERICAN CHOP SUEY 

^ cup boiled rice, 2 tablespoons melted fat, 

3 potatoes diced, ^ lb. chopped beef, 

1 chopped onion, 1^ cups tomatoes. 

Mix rice with diced potatoes and cook until soft. Drain and 
brown onion in fat add beef and sear well. Add rice, potatoes, 
tomatoes. Bake in casserole in moderate oven till brown. Left 
over cooked rice and meat may be used. Seven portions. 

BAKED STEAK 

Season with salt and pepper and place in baking pan. On top 
of steak, put sliced lemon, onions, green pepper, tomato catsup, 
very little Worcestershire sauce. Place in oven with cover and 
bake about twenty minutes. 

BEEF A LA MODE 

4 lbs. beef, 1 chopped onion, 

2 tablespoons fat, 3 bay leaves, 
% cup of vinegar, water 3 slices lemon, 

and wine, 1 slice rye bread. 

Capers. 

Melt fat and brown beef on both sides, then pour over vinegar, 
water and wine. Add onion, bay leaves, lemon, rye bread. Cover 
pot and let simmer until meat is tender. Place meat on platter, 
strain gravy, return to pot add capers, pour over meat and serve 
hot. 

27 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



BOILED BEEF 

Brisket of beef is best for this purpose. Put meat in boiling 
salt water and cook until very tender. Serve with horseradish 
sauce. 

BOILED TONGUE 

(Sweet and Sour Sauce) 

Use either fresh beef tongue or small calves tongue. Place in 
cold water for a couple of hours. Then add enough water to cover 
ic, adding salt. Cook till tender. Run a fork through thickest 
part to tell when tender. Cut off the skin, cut in slices, sprinkle 
with salt and add sweet and sour sauce. 

CASSEROLE OF LAMB 

(Left Overs) 

1 onion, 1 pint water, 

1 pint cold cooked lamb, ^ teaspoon celery salt, 

1 tablespoon butter, paprika and kitchen 

2 tablespoons flour, bouquet, 

2 cold cooked carrots diced. Can green peas. 

Melt butter, brown onion, add lamb cut in dice free from fat 
and bone. When well seared, turn into casserole. Brown butter, 
flour; add water. When smooth add seasoning, pour over lamb. 
Add carrots and cook in slow oven Yi hour. Add peas and cook 
fifteen minutes longer. 

CASSEROLE STEAK WITH TOMATOES 

A good way of cooking a cheap cut of steak. Cut up two 
pounds of round steak in pieces about two inches square. Put 
in casserole with 1 can tomatoes, one small onion, salt, red and 
black pepper, one bay leaf and cook very slowly in moderate 
oven two and one-half hours. Keep well covered. Sliced carrots 
and potatoes may be added one hour before serving. Garnish 
with parsley. 

28 



MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME 



CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND 

4 lb. chicken, 2 cups white sauce, 

Salt, pepper, ginger. Flour, 

Bread crumbs, 2 eggs, 

y^ cup melted butter. 

Dress, clean and joint chickens for serving. Season, dip in 
flour, eggs and crumbs. Place in well greased dripping pan. 
Bake twenty minutes in hot oven, basting after the first five 
minutes with butter. Arrange on platter and pour over white 
sauce. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

1 large onion, 1 cup milk, 

1 carrot, Salt, pepper, ginger, 

1 large spoon flour. 

Boil enough water to cover a four pound chicken. Cut in 
pieces. Add onion and carrot. Cook slowly until tender. Mix 
milk with flour. Cook with chicken just before serving and add 
parsley. 

CROQUETTES 

Cold cooked meat Egg, 

chopped, Chopped parsley. 

Salt, pepper. Thick white sauce. 

Bread crumbs. 

Mix meat with salt, pepper, parsley and white sauce and cool. 
Shape into cylinders. Cover with crumbs, eggs and again crumbs. 
Cook in deep hot fat until brown. 

FILLED FLANK STEAK 

Buy flank steak of two or three pounds and have pocket made 
in it. Fill pocket with a mixture of any vegetable in season or 
canned ; season and sew together. Then proceed the same as for 
Hamburger steak. 

29 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



HAMBURGER STEAK 

Mix one pound top round with salt pepper, Yi cup bread 
crumbs, or bread soaked in water, one beaten egg, and form 
into loaf. With two tablespoons melted fat, brown quickly on 
all sides, then add onions and brown. Also half cup water and 
let simmer for 30 minutes. If desired, add 2 tablespoons toma- 
toes and bay leaf. Add more water if necessary. Pot roast beef 
and beef stew can be prepared the same way, with carrots, cut 
small for seasoning. 



LEFT OVER VEAL 

Cut up into dice shapes, season with salt and pepper and pre- 
pare a white sauce, and heat the veal. Chop fine two hard boiled 
eggs, add to veal until warm. 



MEAT PIE 

Line bottom and sides of casserole with pie crust. Fill with 
cold roast beef or lamb chopped. Season with salt, pepper onion 
juice or onion salt, chopped parsley. To each cup of meat, pour 
in one-third cup gravy or J4 cup water. Cover with pie crust 
and bake till brown about J4 hour. Chicken pie may be made 
the same way. Either may be mixed with a few sauted mush- 
rooms, green peas, celery, carrots and potatoes diced. 

PAN BROILING STEAK 

Remove from steak extra fat. Heat a frying pan very hot and 
grease it with the fat scraps. Put in steak, cook one minute, turn 
and brown the other side. Then cook more slowly until done. 
Season and add browned onions if desired '.Chopped meat can 
be prepared the same way but seasoned first and formed into a 
steak. 

30 



MEATS, POULTRY AND GAME 



ROAST BEEF 

Prepare and season as desired. Dredge with flour. Place on 
rack in dripping pan with two or three tablespoons fat in a hot 
oven, that the surface may be quickly seared thus preventing es- 
cape of juice. Reduce heat and baste every ten minutes with the 
fat that has dried out. When meat is half done, turn over, dredge 
with flour, finish browning. If necessary add a small quantity of 
water. For gravy remove some of the fat from the pan, leav- 
ing three tablespoons. Place on fire, add three tablespoons flour 
and stir until brown. Add gradually one and a half cups of 
boiling water. Cook five minutes. Season and strain. Lamb, 
veal, chicken, duck and turkey roasted the same way. 

ROAST SQUAB 

Prepare the following dressing : 

Soak two uneeda biscuits in water and press out as much 
v-ater as possible. Fry some finely chopped onions and parsley in 
butter. Add biscuits, stirring for a few minutes and set aside 
to cool. Chop the hearts and livers. Mix, adding one beaten egg, 
salt and a little cayenne pepper. Add to dressing and fill squabs. 
Lay in roasting pan, dredge slightly with flour and a few specks 
of butter. Pour little hot water in pan, place in moderate oven 
for twenty minutes. Baste often and a few minutes before fin- 
ished, pour a small glass of port wine in the pan. Serve on toast 
with gravy. Garnish with parsley and cubes of firm jelly. 

SLICED LIVER 

Salt and pepper one pound calves liver, dredge with flour. 
Heat two tablespoons fat in spider. Fry till brown on both 
sides. Push liver aside, brown one large sliced onion slightly, 
cover and let cook ten to fifteen minutes and serve with onions 
cr brown sauce. 

VEAL CUTLET, SAUTED 

With one tablespoon fat, brown cutlet on both sides ; add one 
onion and brown. Then add Yi cup water, ^ cup strained 
tomatoes, cover and let cook till finished, about fifteen minutes. 

.•51 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



VEAL KIDNEY 

Cut kidney into small pieces and stand in salt water for one 
liour. Cut up fine plenty of onions, cook in fat till light brown. 
Add y'2, cup water, kidneys, sprinkle with pepper and salt, dredge 
with a little flour. Cover and allow to simmer slowly for about 
twenty minutes. May be served on toast. 

MEAT ROULADE 

2 lbs. thin round steak, 1 finely chopped onion, 

^ lb. chopped suet, ^ lb. chopped beef. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cut steak in strips about three inches wide. Pound well. Fill 
with onions, suet, chopped beef, add salt and pepper to taste. 
Roll each separately, skewer with toothpicks or better tie securely 
and brown and smother like pot-roast. In place of suet and 
chopped beef, bacon can be used. 



32 



MEMORANDUM 



33 



MEMORANDU]\[ 



M 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"Here's to the friends we class as old, 
And here's to those we class as new. 

May the new soon grow to ns old, 
And the old ne'er gro'v to us nezv." 



VEGETABLES 



BAKED CABBAGE 

To cook cabbage so even its enemies will tolerate it, boil it 
tender in salted water, changing the water three times. Chop it, 
put in buttered baking dish. Turn one cup cream sauce with 
grated cheese over it. Cover the top with grated bread crumbs 
and bake till brown. Can be prepared the same way without 
baking, leaving off bread crumbs. 

BAKED MASHED POTATOES 

Stir two tablespoons butter well with two cups of cold mashed 
potatoes. Add two eggs beaten well and one cup of milk or 
cream. Place in greased pudding dish, bake in quick oven till 
brown and serve hot. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES 
(Southern Fashion) 

Boil six sweet potatoes until partly done ; remove skin, cut into 
slices. Put a layer in the bottom of baking dish, sprinkle over 
two tablespoons brown sugar, another layer of potatoes and 
sugar, and plenty of butter. Add J4 cup boiling water; cover 
dish, cook in moderate oven until they are soft and transparent. 

BAKED POTATOES ON HALF SHELL 

Cut six baked potatoes lengthwise in half, scoop out inside, 
mash and mix with butter, pepper, salt and }i cup hot milk. 
Return to shells, place in moderate oven and brown. 

35 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



BAKING POWDER DUMPLINGS 

Mix one pint flour with four teaspoons salt and stir in grad- 
ually one scant cup milk or water to make a soft dough. Drop. 
quickly by the spoonful into boiling water or stew, letting them 
rest on meat or potatoes. Cover closely to keep in steam and 
cook just ten minutes without lifting the cover. 

BOILED RICE WITH APPLE SAUCE 

Boil one cup of rice in one quart salted water quickly for ten 
minutes. Put in double boiler. Allow to steam one hour with 
cover slightly open and rice will be soft and dry. Mix with apple 
sauce, stewed pears or peaches. 

CHARTREUSE OF SALMON AND RICE 

1 cup rice, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 

3 cups milk, 1 lb. salmon, 

Yn cup butter. Salt, pepper, 

Curry powder, 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Hard boiled eggs. 

Boil rice in plenty of water five minutes ; drain, add salt, milk, 
stock or equal parts of each or water. Let steam till tender, 
then stir in butter creamed with curry powder and onion juice. 
Line two quarts buttered mold with rice ; fill center with cooked, 
flaked and seasoned salmon. Cover fish with rice and let steam 
Yi hour. Serve with drawn butter, garnish with eggs cut in 
eighths or add eggs to sauce. 

FRIED BEEFSTEAK TOMATOES 

Slice tomatoes, season with salt, pepper and a sprinkle of 
sugar. Dip in beaten eggs, cracker dust and fry in very hot 
butter. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Cut potatoes in slices, season with salt and pepper. Fry onions 
till light brown. Put in potatoes and cook till they have broken 
up the fat. Add chopped parsley and serve. 

36 



VEGETABLES 



HASHBROWNED POTATOES 

Chop cold boiled potatoes into pieces the size of peanut. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. For one quart potatoes, melt three 
tablespoons butter and toss the potatoes into it until they begin 
to show a little brown. Then add J4 cup cream and place in a 
very hot oven to brown. Serve in the dish. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES 

4 baked sweet potatoes, J4 cup cream or milk, 

Salt, pepper, 1 tablespoon butter, 

% teaspoon sugar. 

Scoop out potatoes, add salt, pepper. Cream butter, sugar. 
Mash and beat until creamy. Return to oven and brown. 

POTATO HILLS 

From mashed potatoes form little mounds and place in well 
greased dish, making a hollow in top of each mound into which 
you place a small piece of butter and break art egg. Then place 
in the oven and then by the time the potatoes are brown the egg 
will be cooked. 

POTATO PAN-CAKES 

Grate six large raw potatoes, mix with teaspoon salt, three 
beaten egg yolks. Add one or two tablespoons flour. Beat the 
whites stiff and add. Fry the cakes to a light brown in a hot 
pan with plenty of fat using a spoonful at a time. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Cut potatoes into cubes and boil. Put one layer of but- 
tered bread crumbs on the bottom of a buttered baking dish, then 
a layer of potatoes. Continue the same, pour white sauce over 
. all. Put a layer of buttered crumbs on top and bake till brown. 

37 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



SWEET AND SOUR STRING BEANS 

Wash, string and cut beans in pieces. Cook in boiling water 
till tender. Salt when nearly done. Drain and reserve one cup 
of water for sweet and sour sauce. (Look under sauces.) 

SPINACH 

Cut off roots, stems and decayed leaves of two quarts and 
wash five or six times. Place in kettle without water and cook 
about fifteen minutes slowly. Drain and chop very fine. Heat 
one tablespoon fat or butter ; add one teaspoon chopped onion or 
onion salt, then brown with one tablespoon flour or bread crumbs. 
Add one cup of soup stock or hot water. Add spinach, season 
with salt, pepper, a little sugar. Five portions. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

Cut oG stems and remove seeds of eight peppers. Mix one 
pound chopped beef with one beaten egg, salt, pepper and fill 
peppers. Put a piece of butter on top of each, place in a pan 
with little water, dredge with a little flour and bake about j4 
hour. 

SPANISH RICE 

1 tablespoon butter, 2 cups strained tomatoes, 

1 chopped onion, or 1 can tomato soup, 

1 tablespoon chopped 2 cups soup or meat stock, 

green peppers, or 2 cups of milk and 

1 cup washed rice, water mixed, 

1 teaspoon kitchen bouquet. 

Brown onion and green pepper in butter; add rice and cook 
a few minutes. Add remainder of ingredients, cook about 15 
minutes, stirring to prevent rice from sticking. Butter casserole, 
add mixture and bake ^4 hour in moderate oven. 5 portions. 



38 



MEMORANDUM 



M) 



MEMORANDUM 



40 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"My salad days, 
When I was green in judgment." 



SALADS 



ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Trim neatly one bunch of asparagus; tie the stalks together 
and stand them in a deep kettle of boiling water. Add one tea- 
spoonful of salt to each quart of water, cover the kettle and cook 
slowly for forty-five minutes. By placing the asparagus so 
that the tops will not be in the water, the stalks will more evenly 
cook, as they will fall when soft and the tops will then be in the 
water. Lift from water, drain and cool. Serve with French 
dressing. (See Sauces.) 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cut a hard head of cabbage into halves and shred very fine. 
Throw into ice water, allow to stand about two hours, then 
drain and dry. Serve with French dressing. 

CELERY AND CABBAGE SALAD 
IN GREEN PEPPERS 

Hollow out green peppers and fill with equal parts of chopped 
celery and cabbage. Serve with either mayonnaise or French 
dressing. 

CELERY AND NUT SALAD 

Yz cup celery diced, ^ cup olives pitted, 

Yz cup Pecans, Mayonnaise. 

Mix ingredients and serve on lettuce leaves or in green or red 
peppers with mayonnaise. 

41 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CHICKEN SALAD 

1 pint cold chicken in ^ pint celery diced, 

cubes, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

Salt, pepper. 

Mix ingredients, set in a cold place for two or three hours, 
Serve on lettuce, covered with mayonnaise decorated with olives. 
Half veal may be used. 

CHICKEN, SWEETBREAD AND MUSHROOM 

SALAD 

Mix 1 pint cooked chicken cut in small pieces, 1 cup sweet- 
breads in small pieces and 1 cup mushrooms with 1 cup mayon- 
naise and serve cold on lettuce. 

CRAB SALAD 

Prepare the meat of crabs the same as lobster, putting back 
into the shells and placing another teaspoon of mayonnaise 
over each and dusting thickly with a mixture of chopped olives, 
parsley and capers. Serve at once. 

EGG SALAD 

Boil eggs hard, cut lengthwise. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise. 

FILLED TOMATO SALAD 

Take large solid tomatoes and scoop out the centers. Make 
lemon jelly from gelatine and when partly set, fill with chopped 
olives, chopped sweet pickles and put mixture in tomatoes. Place 
on ice to get stiff and serve an lettuce leaves with mayonnaise 
on top. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Serve on lettuce leaves one sUce of pineapple or slice of musk 
melon cut round and peel, or large pieces of grape fruit, oranges, 
etc., with mayonnaise. 

42 



SALADS 
FISH SALAD FOR 1 2 PEOPLE 

2 lbs. halibut, 4 hard boiled eggs 

1 pint mayonnaise, chopped, 

^ pint Chow Chow or 
small pickles chopped 
fine. 
Boil, cool and shred fish. Mix with mayonnaise, eggs, chow 
chow or pickles. Serve ice cold on lettuce leaves. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Cut meat from one cold boiled lobster into one inch squares. 
Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice, mix with mayonnaise 
dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. Shrimp and scallop salad 
may be made the same way ; also salmon salad, fresh or canned. 

POTATO SALAD 

Boil one quart of potatoes (German preferred) in their 
jackets; slice while hot, season with pepper and salt, cut one 
onion very fine, one cup of table celery, very fine, and flakes of 
butter. Let get cold and before serving mix with mayonnaise 
or hot French dressing. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

Select young beans and cut strings from both sides. Cut in 
three pieces lengthwise, throwing them into cold water as soon 
as cut. Cook in boiling, salted water till tender and drain. 
Sprinkle about two tablespoonfuls vinegar over them and stand 
away to cool. Serve with French dressing. Peas, carrots, 
turnips or potatoes diced may be added. Serve on lettuce with 
parsley and hard boiled eggs chopped fine. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Two cups of chopped celery, one cup apples, one cup Pecans 
or walnuts, all chopped fine and dusted with salt and pepper. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

43 



MEMORANDUM 



44 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"Men, when dying, make their wills, 
But wives escape a ■work so sad; 

Why should they make what all their lives, 
The gentle dames have had?" 



HOT PUDDINGS 



APPLE CHARLOTTE 

3 to 4 cups chopped 1 cup raisins and currants 

apples, mixed, 

1 cup sugar, 1 lemon, rind and juice, 

Cinnamon, Almonds, 

Citron. 

Line well greased pudding dish with pie crust. Fill with 
ingredients cover with pie crust and bake % to an hour in hot 
oven. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING 

6 apples. Cinnamon, 

% cup sugar. Raisins. 

Butter dish, fill with apples which have been pared, cored and 
filled with sugar, cinnamon and raisins. Pour over a sponge 
batter made from two eggs. Bake about ^ hour. Steam apples 
first to soften, before filling the dish. Serve with sauce if 
desired. 

BROWN BETTY PUDDING 

Butter pudding dish, line bottom with bread crumbs, cover 
with layer of sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and 
flakes of butter. Continue to alternate with bread crumbs and 
apples, leaving crumbs on top. Bake about three-fourths of 
an hour. Serve with any sauce. 

45 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

yi cupful Crisco, 2^^ cupfuls wheat flour, 

y^ cupful sugar, ■% teaspoonful salt, 

2 egg yolks, y^ cupful milk, 

5 teaspoonfuls baking 2 eggs whites, 

powder, 1 cupful blueberries. 

Use level measurements 

Cream the Crisco ; beat in the sugar and yolks ; add the flour 
with the baking powder and salt, alternately, with the milk; 
beat in the whites and berries. Steam in a mold one hour and 
a half. Serve hot with blueberries stewed with a little sugar. 



BREAD PUDDING 

2 eggs, Yt^ teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup sugar, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 quart scalded milk, 2 cups bread crumbs, 
1 cup raisins. 

Beat eggs, sugar and add milk ; add salt and cinnamon. Butter 
dish. Turn in bread crumbs and raisins. Pour milk over this. 
Bake about one hour. If desired, 10 minutes before finished, a 
layer of jelly may be spread, with the whites of eggs beaten with 
a little sugar as a meringue, then browned. 



CHOCOLATE NUT PUDDING 

1 cup chopped nuts, 2 squares grated chocolate, 

1 cup soft bread crumbs, ^ teaspoon salt, 

2 cups scalded milk, 2 eggs, 

1 lemon, juice and rind, 

Mix altogether and bake J4 hour. Serve with whipped cream. 

46 



HOT PUDDINGS 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

Yz lb. stale bread crumbs, % lb. currants, 

y% cup scalded milk, ^ lb, citron cut fine, 

Yz cup sugar, 1 cup suet cut fine, 

4 eggs, ^ cup brandy or wine, 

Yi lb. raisins seeded, J4 grated nutmeg, 

Y2. teaspoon salt. , ,^ 

Soak crumbs in milk and let cool ; add sugar, beaten yolks, 
rkisins cut in pieces and floured; currants and citron. Cream 
suet, add to mixture with brandy, nutmeg and salt. Add stiffly 
beaten whites. Turn in buttered mold, cover and steam five or 
six hours. Serve hot with brandy sauce. 



FRUIT DUMPLINGS 

Make a dough as for biscuit. Pat and roll out one-fourth-inch 
thick; cut into four-inch squares. Place in the center of each 
square an apple or fruit, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon or nut- 
meg. If fruit is hard, steam first five to ten minutes. Moisten 
the edges of the dough with warm water, fold so that the corners 
meet and the fruit is covered, press edges together. Bake in a 
hot oven about twenty minutes. 



LEMON PUDDING 

1 quart boiling water, 2 eggs, 

6 level tablespoons corn- Yi cup sugar, 

starch, 2 lemons, juice and rind. 

Mix cornstarch in cold water; add to boiling water and stir 
until thick. Beat yolks of eggs with sugar; add rind and juice. 
Mix altogether and pour in pudding dish. Make a meringue of 
whites with two tablespoons powdered sugar. Place in oven for 
a while and serve cold. 

47 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



MACAROON SOUFFLE 

1 dozen macaroons, 1 cup milk, 

3 eggs. 

Scald macaroons in milk. Pour over beaten yolks and cook in 
double boiler until slightly thick. Fold in whites beaten stiff 
and bake in buttered mold set in a pan of hot water for about 
twenty minutes. Turn from mold, sprinkle top with fresh fruit 
and surround with whipped cream. 



MOCK PLUM PUDDING OR SUET PUDDING 

1 lb., chopped veal suet, 2 beaten eggs, 

34 cup molasses, y^ teaspoon cinnamon, 
Yi. cup sugar, cloves and nutmeg, 

2 cups milk, 1 dozen almonds chopped, 

3 cups flour, 1 tablespoon whiskey, 
V/i cups chopped raisins, 1 teaspoon baking soda, 
V/z cups currants, J4 cup milk. 

Mix all ingredients in large bowl, add baking soda dissolved in 
warm milk. Put in either form or tin pail and boil vessel five 
to six hours in large vessel. Best prepared a few weeks before 
using when it can be boiled three hours and when ready to use 
three hours more. 



MOCK APPLE STRUDDLE 

Grease pudding dish. Spread layer toasted corn flakes. 
Sprinkle with plenty of sugar and flakes of butter. Then add a 
layer of sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar, butter, cinnamon and 
raisins. Continue to alternate, having corn flakes on top. Bake 
about one hour. 

48 



HOT PUDDINGS 



NOODLE CHARLOTTE 

Noodles 1J4 cup apples or jelly, 

4 or 5 eggs, % cup grated almonds, 

14 cup sugar, Rind of one lemon, 

Yz cup raisins. Juice of one orange, 

1 cup currants, Nutmeg and cinamon. 

Boil noodles in milk or water with a little salt; when done 
drain. Stir yolks with sugar and add to noodles with all ingred- 
ients. Beat whites stiff and add. Bake in moderate oven until 
done. Serve with any fruit or wine sauce. 



PEACH AND FARINA PUDDING 

Boil one-half cup farina in one quart milk with a small lump 
of butter and a pinch of salt, until thick, in double boiler. Beat 
yolks of four eggs with two tablespoons sugar and add this just 
.before taking off the fire, stirring thoroughly, but not boiling 
any longer. Flavor with vanilla. Beat whites of eggs and add 
to mixture. Butter pudding dish, put in part of custard, then 
a layer of stewed or canned peaches, cover with remaining cus- 
tard and bake. 



PEACH PUDDING 

Peel and slice one quart peaches. Cook with a little sugar 
until soft. One quart canned peaches may be used instead of 
the fresh ones. Scald two cups milk, add three tgg yolks mixed 
with J4 cup sugar and a pinch of salt, and cook over hot water 
until the mixture coats the spoon. Remove from the fire and 
add lj4 tablespoons gelatine soaked in 2 tablespoons cold water. 
Cool slightly and add the juice from the peaches. Stir until 
the mixture begins to thicken and add 3 egg whites, beaten until 
stiff. Line a large mold with peaches and pour the custard 
over them. Chill and serve with or without cream. 

-49 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



PRUNE WHIP 

Stew one pound of prunes as usual and when cold, remove 
the pits. Butter a pudding dish, beat the whites of two eggs, 
add to them one-half teaspoonful baking powder and mix with 
the prunes. Bake in oven till light brown and serve warm with 
whipped cream. 

RICE PUDDING 

Put into a pudding dish one quart milk, two large kitchen 
spoonsful of rice, one cup sugar, one handful of raisins, and 
mix well together. Bake until rice is soft, stirring often, about 
three fourths of an hour. It should be soft and creamy when 
served cold. 



ROLY POLY 

Make a dough of either plain pie crust or biscuit dough; roll 
one-half-inch thick. Spread with chopped apples, raisins, sugar, 
cinnamon or jam and roll. Spread butter over all, add two cups 
of cold water in pan, bake in hot oven, basting often with sauce 
in the pan, until done. Serve hot. 



RYE BREAD PUDDING 

Yi cup rye bread crumbs, Pinch of cloves and 

4 eggs, allspice, 

^ cup sugar, Rind of % lemon, 

Yi teaspoon cinnamon, 14 lb. chopped almonds. 

Dry crumbs in oven; beat yolks \ery light with sugar; add 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon, lemon and almonds. Moisten crumbs 
with whiskey and add to mixture. Add stiffly beaten whites. 
Put in mold, and boil three hours. Serve with whiskey sauce. 

SO 



HOT PUDDINGS 



SURPRISE PUDDING 

1% cups preserved black- IJ^ cups flour, 

berries, or raspberries, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 cup chopped suet, 1 teaspoon baking soda, 

1 cup sweet milk. Pinch of salt. 

Sift flour, salt and soda and mix well with other ingredients. 
Pour in buttered dish. Cover with buttered paper and steam 
steadily for two hours. Serve with any sweet pudding sauce. 



51 



MEMORANDUM 



52 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



The process, of digestion, as I have bedn informed by ana- 
tomical friends, is one of the most wonderful works of nature. 
I do not know how it may he with others, hut it is a great 
satisfaction to me to knovJ, when regaling on my humhlc 
fare, that I am putting in motion the most beautiful machinery 
ivith which wc have any acquaintdnce. 



COLD AND FROZEN PUDDINGS 



APPLE TAPIOCO 

Cook ^ cup tapioco in double boiler with 2j4 cups boiling 
water, till transparent. Core and pare six sour apples, arrange 
in buttered pudding dish, fill cavities with sugar ; pour over 
tapioco and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 



BLANC MANGE 

Scald one quart milk ; add two large spoons cornstarch rubbed 
smooth with cold water, J4 cup sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, J4 tea- 
spoon vanilla or other flavoring. Cook till smooth and remove 
from fire as soon as it thickens. Pour into cups or molds which 
have been in cold water and allow to cool. Stewed or preserved 
fruit poured over each mold is very refreshing. Chocolate 
blanc mange may be made by melting 1^ ounces of bitter 
chocolate over hot water and mixing with scalded milk. 



CAFE PARE AIT 

Two cups weak coffee boiled with two cups sugar until cofifee 
strings. Beat yolks of six eggs in a bowl and stir mixture into 
the eggs. Beat until very light and thick, add one pint whipped 
cream; pack in freezer to chill. Serve with a dash of whipped 
cream and cherry. 

53 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CHOCOLATE ICE BOX CAKE 

3 dozen lady fingers, 4 eggs, 

5^ lb. sweet chocolate, y^ pint whipped cream, 

3 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup powdered sugar, 

3 tablespoons water, y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Line sides and bottom of spring form or a deep form with 
tube in the center, with lady fingers, fiat side towards the pan 
and close together. 

Filling — Melt chocolate in double boiler, add sugar and water 
with beaten yolks, stirring constantly until thick. When cool, add 
stiffly beaten whites. Cover the bottom of form with layer of 
mixture then lady fingers and so on, using all with lady fingers on 
the top. Place in ice-box twelve hours or more and when ready 
to serve, remove to platter, cover with whipped cream, mixed 
with cup powdered sugar and vanilla. 



MOCHA FILLING 

1 cup hot milk, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 

^ cup mocha coffee y% teaspoon salt, 

grounds, ^ cup sugar, 
3 eggs. 

Pour milk over coffee grounds, let stand ten minutes. Moisten 
cornstarch with cold water ; add to well beaten yolks with salt 
and sugar. Cook in double boiler and stir in strained coffee. 
Cook slowly until thick and smooth and fold in stiffly beaten 
whites while still warm. 



CUP CUSTARD, BAKED OR STEAMED 

Beat four eggs slightly, with salt and one cup sugar, one quart 
milk, till all is well blended. May be flavored with nutmeg or 
vanilla. Pour into buttered cups or pudding dish, place in a pan 
of boiling water, either in oven thirty minutes or on stove twenty 
minutes. 

54 



COLD AND FROZEN PUDDINGS 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One-fourth pound chocolate, dissolved in one cup warm water, 
in double boiler. Wet one tablespoonful gelatine with a little 
cold water and then fill the cup two-thirds full with very hot 
water. Mix all together and stir (but do not boil) for a few 
minutes on stove. Beat yolks of four eggs with one cup of 
pulverized sugar for five minutes, pour the hot mixture over 
this, and beat well together and add, last, the well-beaten whites 
of the eggs. Pour into a mold and set on ice to harden for three 
or four hours. If the mould has a tube in the center, the hollow 
may be filled with whipped cream just before serving. 

DELMONICO PUDDING 

Yz box gelatine, 1 cup sugar, 

1 pint cold milk, y^ cup sherry, 

4 eggs, Yi dozen macaroons. 

Dissolve gelatine in milk twenty minutes. Let come to a boil 
in double boiler, add beaten yolks of eggs with sugar. Bring 
again to boiling point, add sherry. Allow to cool slightly. Add 
beaten whites ; soak macaroons in sherry. Place a few on bottom 
of mold. Add some mixture, then more macaroons and remain- 
der of mixture. When prepared the day before using, it will 
harden in ice-box. Serve with whipped cream around. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Scald one quart of milk. Beat the whites of six eggs very 
stifif and put them into the boiling milk a spoonful at a time. 
When firm, take out the boiled whites and lay them on a platter. 
Beat light the yolks of six eggs with one-half cup sugar, then 
pour the hot milk gradually on the beaten yolks. When thorough- 
ly mixed return to the fire to boil, stirring constantly. When 
cool, flavor with vanilla, pour into a deep glass dish, put the 
whites on top and garnish with jelly or candied fruit. Eat cold. 

SS 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



FROZEN NESSELRODE 

Yz cup chestnuts, 4 eggs, 

V/i cups sugar, ^ lb. candied fruit, 

54 cup water, 1 wine glass sherry, 

1 quart whipped cream. 

Boil, blanch and put through sieve chestnuts. Boil sugar and 
water to a syrup ; cool, add yolks. Put in double boiler, stirring 
constantly; cool again, add chestnuts; fruit cut fine, sherry and 
whipped cream. Fill mold, pack in ice and salt four hours. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

One-half cup of lemon juice, one and one-half cups of orange 
juice. Sweeten to taste and let stand for thirty minutes. Beat 
one pint of cream very stifif and sweeten to taste with powdered 
sugar and add three-fourths cup of chopped nuts. Pour juices 
in mold, then cream and freeze. 

FRUIT BRICK 

Cover the bottom of a square granite pan (select one large 
enough for the number of people who are to be served) with the 
following fruits : Strawberries, cherries, orange, banana and a few 
chopped nuts. Dissolve a package of gelatine in water, sweeten, 
flavor slightly and pour over the fruit. Stand aside until cool 
and stifif. Cut into squares and serve on fruit plates with 
whipped cream. 

ICE BOX CAKE 

5 dozen lady fingers, 2 eggs, 

Yi, cup butter, 4 oranges, 

1 cup sugar, 1 lemon, 

Yi pint cream. 

Arrange lady fingers around spring form and three layers 
deep, with flat side towards the form. 

Filling — Cream butter, sugar. Mix with whole beaten eggs, 
juice of oranges, rind and lemon juice. Pour over cake. Leave in 
ice-box twenty-four hours. Whip ^ pint cream, sweeten and 
flavor and pour over cake when ready to serve. 

56 



COLD AND FROZEN PUDDINGS 



MAPLE MOUSSE 

Beat one cup maple syrup with yolks of three eggs. Beat 
whites stiff with one pint cream, also beaten. Mix altogether 
with six to ten macaroons and pack with salt and ice for four 
hours. Makes about two quarts. 

MOCHA ICE CREAM PUDDING 

2 eggs, ^ cup powdered sugar, 

1 tablespoon mocha 1 pint whipped cream, 
essence, 4 macaroons, 

Preserved cherries and pineapple. 

Beat yolks with sugar and add mocha essence. Stir in beaten 
whites, cream and fruit. Place in form. Grate macaroons on 
top and freeze four hours, with salt and ice. Makes two quarts. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING 

5 eggs, 3 tablespoons blanched, 

Yi cup sugar, almonds, 

2 cups hot milk, Small piece citron cut fine, 
% box gelatine, Salt, 

"%. cup cold water, 1 tablespoon brandy, 

yz cup raisins, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat yolks of eggs with sugar and add milk. Cook one min- 
ute until it coats the spoon, stirring constantly. Dissolve gela- 
tine in water, add to the hot mixture and stir until dissolved. 
Then add almonds, raisins, citron and salt. Set in pan of cold 
water for five minutes, then add beaten whites, brandy and van- 
illa. Put in mold until stiff. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

PEACH MOUSSE 

Mash five peaches with little sugar. Put two tablespoons 
in double boiler. Beat yolks of two eggs and add to double 
boiler. Dissolve one tablespoon minute gelatine in little boiling 
water; add to eggs and peaches when thick, remove from fire, 
cool, add rest of peaches beaten white and J/2 small bottle cream 
beaten. Put in mold on ice. 

57 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

3 cups milk, ^^ cup cornstarch, 

1 can sliced pineapple, ^ teaspoon salt, 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup water, 

1 teaspoon butter. Juice of J/z lemon, 

3 eggs. 

Heat milk with syrup. Mix sugar, cornstarch, salt, water 
and add to milk ; cook until thick. Add butter, lemon, half of 
pineapple cut in cubes. Fold in beaten whites and turn into 
mold. May be served with whipped cream or other half of 
pineapple. Eight portions. 

RICE WITH APPLES 

Pare, core and cut in eighths two apples or equal amount of 
pineapple. Steam apples until soft ; steam Yz cup rice, add well 
beaten yolks of three eggs, 3^ cup sugar and apples. Fold in 
stiffly beaten whites and bake thirty minutes in well buttered 
dish. Serve with cream. 



ROTHE GRUTZE 

Boil two boxes of raspberries to one of currants. Then strain 
through cheese cloth. Boil five minutes with one and one-half 
cups sugar and thicken with two large kitchen spoons cornstarch 
moistened with cold water, stirring gradually till thick. Pour 
in mould. 



STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY MOUSSE 

Mash one box of strawberries or two of raspberries with two 
cups of sugar, cook five minutes and let stand for one hour. 
Beat two bottles cream, add to berries (strain raspberries) 
and when well blended, put in mold or freezer, pack with four 
parts of ice to one of salt and let stand four hours. 

58 



COLD AND FROZEN PUDDINGS 



TAPIOCO CREAM 

Put one-third cup of tapioca in top of a double boiler and cover 
with boiling water. Add one pint milk as soon as water is 
absorbed and cook till tapioca is soft and clear. Beat yolks of 
two eggs, add salt, one-third cup sugar and the hot mixture and 
cook till it thickens like custard; remove from the fire, fold in 
the beaten whites ; flavor when cold. 



MEMORANDUM 



60 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"No fdncy foreign fruit am I; 
Bnt I con make good apple pic.'' 



PIES 



APPLE PIE 
(Deep Dish) 

Line dish with pie crust ; fill half way with diced apples, sugar, 
cinnamon, raisins, flakes of butter, rind and juice of lemon. 
Cover with pie crust; add more filling and cover all with pie 
crust. Bake % of an hour. 

APPLE PIE 

Make a fine short pastry; line a deep plate with pie crust. 
Fill with chopped apples, seedless raisins, small pieces of butter, 
few finely-chopped nuts, one cup sugar. Put in oven and when 
bottom crust is baked add custard made of an egg and one-half 
cup milk. Let bake a little longer. 

BLUEBERRY PIE 

Line a deep dish with pie crust and fill half way with sugared 
berries. Lay a cover of pie crust, fill to the top with berries 
and put on top cover. Bake till brown. Flour crust before 
filling in berries. 

COCOANUT LEMON PIE 

Line pie plate with rich pastry and bake light brown. Fill 
with mixture of beaten yolks of three eggs with one cup sugar, , 
juice and rind of J^ lemon, ^ cup grated cocoanut and well 
beaten whites. Bake till thick and brown. 

61 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CHEESE PIE 

1 lb. pot cheese, 1 cup cream, 

2 tablespoons melted % lemon, 
butter, 3 eggs, 

1 cup sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon 

cornstarch. 

Line pie plate with crust. Press cheese through colander ; 
add butter, sugar, cream beaten stiff, rind and juice of lemon, 
eggs and cornstarch, mixed with cold water. Sprinkle pie crust 
with flour and put in filling. Bake % of an hour in moderate 
oven. 

GRATED APPLE PIE 

6 large apples, 1 lemon, 

2 eggs, ^ cups raisins, 

54 cup sugar, 1 dozen chopped almonds. 

Line pie plate with pie crust; fill with mixture of grated apples, 
beaten yolks, sugar, rind and juice of lemon, raisins and almond.i. 
When almost baked, beat whites with two teaspoons powdered 
sugar. Spread over pie and brown slightly. 

LEMON PIE 

2 small lemons, 4 eggs, 

1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Line pie plate with pastry dough or pie crust and bake light 
brown. Fill with the following mixture : Cook in double boiler 
one cup of water, with lemon skins to extract the juice; add 
rind and juice; beat yolks with sugar and add to pot. Wet 
cornstarch with cold water. Add to mixture with butter. When 
quite thick allow to cool slightly and add beaten whites. Pour 
all in baked pie crust and brown under the flame for a few 
minutes. 

62 



PIES 



PASTRY DOUGH 

Cream very well one-half pound pot cheese and one-half 
pound sweet butter, each separately, and then together. When 
well blended mix with one-half pound flour. Prepare the day 
before using and place on ice. This pastry is good for pies, small 
tarts, filled with cheese, prunes, apples, jelly, berries, etc. 

PASTRY DOUGH 

Mix one cup flour and one-quarter cup sugar and work in 
one-half cup butter ; add well beaten yolk of one egg, put on ice 
for one-half hour and press into pie plate, fill with any fruit and 
lay strips on top. Good for tarts. 

PRUNE PIE 

Line a pie plate with crust, sprinkle bottom with flour and fill 
with pitted cooked prunes. Lay stripes across the top. 

PIE CRUST 

Sift two cups of flour; cut in (with two knives) two table- 
spoonfuls butter and two of fat until fine as sand. Add enough 
ice-water to make the dough firm enough to roll (about three- 
fourths of a cup). Roll out in one direction and on one side 
only, using but little flour. Roll till thin. 

REAL RAISIN PIE 

2 cups seeded raisins, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 

2 cups water, 1 tablespoon corn starch, 

Yn teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Wash the raisins, put in sauce-pan with one cup cold water 
and bring slowly to a boil. Add sugar, salt and cornstarch, which 
has been mixed with one cup cold water. Boil three minutes ; add 
lemon juice. Pour in pie tin which has been dined with crust; 
while hot, cover ; brush top with cold milk and bake in moderate 
oven until brown. 

63 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



RHUBARB PIE 

Scald rhubarb in hot water. Mix one teacup sugar, one egg, 
one tablespoonful matzo flour and mix with rhubarb. Sprinkle 
pie-crust with cornstarch before adding mixture. 

STRAWBERRY PIE 

Line pie plate and bake light brown. Remove from oven, fill 
with fresh sugared strawberries (first sprinkling flour or corn 
starch on crust). Beat two eggs lightly with some powdered 
sugar, pour over berries and return to oven till well browned. 
Beat whites separately and mix with yolks. 



64 



MEMORANDUM 



65 



MEMORANDUM 



6t 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



BREAD, BISCUITS AND ROLLS 
BISCUITS 

2 heaping tablespoons 1 quart flour, 

baking powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 

Salt. 

Sift baking powder with flour, cream butter. Mix well with 
flour; add salt and enough cold water or milk (about one cup) to 
roll out easily. Make quickly and biscuits will be light. Roll 
about J4 inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter. Place on buttered 
pan and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in well heated oven. 

CHILDREN'S BUNS 

1 cake Fleischmann's 6 cups sifted flour. 
Yeast, Yi, cup butter, 

2 cups milk, scalded and 1 cup sugar, 
cooled, 1 egg, 

1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 cup currants, 

Yi, teaspoonful salt. 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoonful sugar in lukewarm 
milk, and add to it three cups of flour to make an ordinary sponge. 
Beat well. Cover and set aside in a warm place to rise, for about 
an hour. 

When light, add to it the butter and sugar creamed, egg well 
beaten, the currants, which have previously been floured, and 
the remainder of the flour, or sufficient to make a moderately soft 
dough, and salt with the last of the flour. 

Knead lightly, or "throw and roll." Place in greased bowl, 
cover and set aside in" a warm place, free from draft, to rise for 
about two to two and one-half hours. When well risen, turn out 
on a kneading board and mould into rolls. Place in well-greased 
pans, cover and let rise again for about one hour, or until 
double in bulk. 

Brush with egg diluted with milk. Bake in a hot oven for 
about fifteen or twenty minutes. Upon removing from oven 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

67 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CINNAMON ROLLS 

2 cups flour, Vs. teaspoon cinnamon, 

3 teaspoons baking J^ teaspoon salt, 
powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 

Ys cup milk, ^ cup raisins or currants, 

2 tablespoons citron, 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Mix flour with baking powder, salt, butter and milk the same 
as for biscuits. Roll J4 inch thick, brush with melted butter, 
sprinkle with raisins, chopped fine, citron chopped fine, sugar 
and cinnamon. Form in a roll, cut in pieces about one inch long. 
Place in buttered tins endwise and bake ten minutes in hot oven. 



CORN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal, 1^4 cups milk, 

1 cup flour, 2 tablespoons melted 

4 teaspoons baking shortening, 

powder, 3 tablespoons sugar, 

1 teaspoon salt, 1 egg. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add milk, shortening and beaten 
egg; beat well and pour into greased shallow pan. Bake in hot 
oven about twenty-five minutes. 

CRULLERS 

Cream one tablespoon butter with one cup sugar ; add two eggs, 
pinch of salt, one cup of milk and flour enough to roll out stifif, 
with two teaspoons baking powder. Cut with cruller cutter and 
fry nice brown in plenty of butter or fat. Sprinkle with powd- 
ered sugar. Will make about thirty-two. 

CROUTONS 

Cut pieces of stale bread into cubes and brown in oven or in 
pan. 

68 



BREAD, BISCUITS AND ROLLS 



GINGER BREAD 

1 cup seeded raisins, 3 cups flour, 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup baking molasses, 

J4 cup shortening, 1 cup boiling water, 

1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

(or to taste) 1 teaspoon baking soda. 

Put sugar, molasses and shortening into bowl, mix well, add 
water and baking soda, which has been dissolved in a little hot 
water ; add ginger and cinnamon. Sift flour, add and beat well ; 
last, add the well washed and dried raisins. Bake in Turk's head 
or brick pan, which has been lined with paper, in moderate oven 
forty minutes. 

KRUMMEL TORTA 

Yz cup dried bread crumbs, 1 cup dates, 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup walnuts, 

2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 eggs. 

Grind crumbs mixed with sugar, baking powder, chopped 
dates and chopped walnuts. Beat eggs and stir into the above 
mixture. Bake in medium hot oven ten minutes. Let cool and 
serve with whipped cream or pudding sauce. 

LEMON PUFFS 

Beat yolks of three eggs well with one-half cup powdered sugar, 
add one-fourth teaspoonful salt, rind and juice of one-half lemon, 
then whites, beaten stiflf, and stir in two cups of flour. Bake 
in muffin tins as soon as mixed, in moderate oven. 

POP OVERS 

Mix one cup of flour with one egg and one cup of milk. Add 
one-half teaspoon salt and beat well. Butter muffin pans, fill half 
way and bake about twenty minutes. 

69 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



POTATO BREAD 

Boil four or five good-sized mealy potatoes with skins on two 
days before making bread. Set a dough of three pounds flour, 
one cake Fleischmann's compressed yeast, grate the potatoes, 
two tablespoon fuls salt, one-fourth pound unsalted butter, and 
boiled, cooled-off milk, to make a stiff dough. Cover and keep 
warm until risen enough. Butter pans, make into loaves, let 
rise again and bake in hot oven about three-fourths of an hour. 

RICH MUFFINS 

Cream two heaping tablespoonfuls butter with two-thirds cup 
of sugar; add well-beaten yolks of three eggs, three-fourths cup 
milk, two cups flour, sifted, with two teaspoonfuls making pow- 
der, and, lastly, the well-beaten whites. Bake in hot oven in 
muffin pans. 

WHOLE WHEAT NUT BREAD 

2 cups whole wheat flour, 1 lb. dates cut small, 

2 cups white flour, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 

2 tablespoons sugar, ^ cup molasses, 

3 teaspoons baking y^ teaspoon soda, 
powder, 1 34 to 2 cups milk, 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Sift together white flour, sugar, salt and baking powder, and 
add to whole wheat flour. Add dates, walnuts and milk. Beat 
molasses and soda ; add to former mixture. Bake in one large 
or two small greased loaf pans about one hour in moderate oven. 



70 



MEMORANDUM 



71 



MEMORANDUM 



n 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



Here's to the press, the pulpit and the petticoat, the three 
ruling powers of the day. The first spreads knowledge; 
the second spreads morals, and the third spreads considerably. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



ALLEGRETTO CAKE 

5 eggs, ^ cup granulated sugar, 
J^, teaspoon cream of Pinch of salt, 

tartar, Flavoring, 

1 cup flour. 

Beat yolk stiff, add cream of tartar to the stiff beaten whites. 
Mix sugar with whites. Beat in yolks, add salt and flavoring. 
Sift in flour and fold lightly together. Bake in moderate oven 
thjrty minutes. Ice if desired. 

ALMOND CAKE 

Beat yolks of four eggs with one-half pound of powdered sugar 
for one hour. Add one-half pound of ground almonds and then 
stiff-beaten whites. Bake in well greased pan about thirty 
minutes. 

ALMOND TORTE 

6 eggs, 14 teaspoon cinnamon, 
% cup pulverised sugar, grounded cloves or 
1^ cups grounded allspice, 

almonds, S tablespoons crackers or, 

Yz teaspoon powder, bread crumbs. 

Beat yolks twenty minutes with sugar; add almonds (not 
bianched) spices, crumbs and powder. Beat whites well and add. 
Bake slowly in spring form forty minutes. Use chocolate frost- 
ing or whipped cream. 

73 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



ANGEL CAKE 

Beat whites of nine eggs very stiff, add pinch of salt, half 
teaspoon cream of tartar, 1J4 cups of sugar, one cup flour sifted 
five times. Flavor with vanilla and bake in very slow oven about 
forty-five minutes. Best results when baked in patented pan that 
can be inverted. 

APPLE, PEACH OR PLUM CAKE 

Cream one tablespoonful butter with one-half cup of sugar; 
add one egg, two shells of milk or water, two teaspoons baking 
powder and enough fiour to make a batter to smooth out in a 
buttered pan. Cup up apples, peaches or pit plums, and sugar. 
Bake about one-half hour, till brown. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

y2 cup butter, allspice, cinnamon, 

1 cup sugar, i^ cup nut meats, 
1% cup raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1^ cups flour, 1 cup unsweetened apple ' 

% teaspoon each of cloves, sauce. 

Cream butter with sugar, add raisins, flour, spices, nuts and 
apple sauce. Dissolve soda in hot water and add. Bake forty- 
five -minutes in moderate oven. 

APPLE TORTE 

Yn lb. butter, 14 lb. flour, 

Yt, lb. sugar, Handful grated almonds, 

2 eggs, 1 teaspoon whiskey or 

rum. 
Cream butter with sugar. Mix with yolks of eggs, flour, al- 
monds and rum. Put on paper and place on ice. (Better made 
the day previous.) Filling — Peel and slice eight apples and cook 
'not too soft with three tablespoons sugar, a handful of raisins and 
a little citron. Spread half of the dough on bottom of spring 
form and bake till half done ; cover with apples and use remainder 
of dough for stripes. Beat the two whites stiff, drop between 
squares, replace in oven and bake till brown. 

74 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



BROD TORTE 

8 eggs, 1 small glass any sweet. 

lYz cups sugar, cordial, 

^ teaspoon cinnamon, 14 lb. ground sweet 

y^ teaspoon cloves, almonds, 

1 tablespoon grated 6 bitter almonds, 

chocolate, Ya cup crumbs, 

1 brandy glass rum, 1 heaping teaspoon 

baking powder. 

Beat yolks with sugar ; add spices, chocolate, rum and cordial, 
almonds, crumbs, baking powder and last the beaten whites. Bake 
in moderate oven % of an hour. 



BUTTER CAKES 

2 hard boiled eggs, 1 teaspoon baking 

54 lb. butter, powder, 

Yz cup sugar. Rind and juice of Yi 

5 cups sifted flour, lemon. 

Whites of eggs, i<4 cup milk. 

Fine chopped nuts. 

Mix butter with sugar, add flour with baking powder. Cream 
yolks of eggs; add rind and juice of lemon. Add to first mix- 
ture and take milk to form batter to roll out three-eighths of an 
inch. Cut in shapes with small glass. Then half each shape with 
edge of glass. Spread each with white of egg and sprinkle with 
nuts. Bake ten to fifteen minutes. 



CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 

Prepare same batter as for cream puffs. Put on buttered 
slieets in pieces about four inches long and Ij^ inches wide. 
Bake thirty minutes. Frost with either vanilla or chocolate 
icing. When dry open on one side and fill either with custard or 
whipped cream. 

75 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CHEESE CAKE 

2 lbs. pot cheese, 10 eggs, 

2 heaping tablespoons, 2 teaspoons vanilla, 

butter, 2 tablespoons sifted flour, 

2 cups sugar, 2 cups rich cream. 

Stir butter to a cream ; add sugar ; add yolks of eight eggs one 
at a time, and two whole eggs. After beating fifteen minutes, 
add cheese, vanilla, flour, cream and strain through a fine sieve. 
Then add beaten whites. Line a large spring form with rich pie 
crust and' put in above mixture. Bake very slowly in moderate 
oven at least one hour. 



CHRISTMAS CAKES 

2 oz. butter, 1 oz. ground almonds, 

2 oz. sugar, ^ teaspoon vanilla, 

1 egg. Chopped almonds, 

1 heaping tablespoon cake Jelly, 
crumbs, 

Grease six gems pans and line with crust pastry. Cream but- 
ter with sugar; add egg, stir in crumbs, almonds, and vanilla. 
Half fill each pastry case with mixture, sprinkle over almonds 
and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. When cool, put tea- 
spoon jelly on top. 



COCOANUT MACAROONS 

One large cocoanut grated or shredded; then dry in stove (do 
not allow to brown) ; whites of five eggs, and one pound of sugar, 
beaten together in a bowl on the stove until eggs and sugar get 
warm; take oflf the stove and beat until it gets cold; then add 
cocoanut and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven on ungreased paper. 

76 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



CUP CAKE 

Yz cup butter, 3 teaspoons baking 

2 cups sugar, powder, 

1 cup lukewarm milk. Juice and rind of 1 lemon, 

2^-3 cups flour, 4 eggs, 

y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream butter with sugar; add yolks one at a time; then add 
milk and flour alternately, adding powder to last half cup. Beat 
whites, add lemon and vanilla. Bake in large cake, loaf, layers, 
coffee cake form or gems with raisins if desired. 



CURRANT LOAF CAKE 

^ cup butter, 1^4 cups flour, 

1 cup sugar, 2^ teaspoons baking 

1 cup currants mixed powder, 

with 2 tablespoons flour, Yz cup milk, 

2 eggs. 

Cream butter and add sugar and eggs well beaten. Add flour 
and baking powder which have been sifted together, alternately 
with milk. Sprinkle in currants. Bake about forty-five minutes 
in deep pan. 



CHEESE CAKE 
(Mock) 

2 cups apple sauce, 1 can sweet condensed 

3 eggs, milk. 

Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 

Beat yolks, add other ingredients; beat whites stiff, and add. 
Butter spring form, cover bottom with bread crumbs, pour in bat- 
ter ; bake slowly about one hour. 

n 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CHEESE TART 

1J4 lbs. pot cheese, 2 tablespoons flour, 

lYi cups sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 

ly^ tablespoons butter, y^ pint cream, 

8 eggs, Juice and rind of 1 lemon, 

3^ cup bread crumbs. 
Mix cheese with sugar and butter creamed ; add yolks of eggs, 
flour, salt, cream and lemon. Beat whites stiff and add. Grease 
spring form, sprinkle bread crumbs, add mixture and bake slowly 
in moderate oven about one hour. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

3^ cup butter, 5 tablespoons hot water, 

\y2 cups sugar, y^ cup milk, 

4 eggs, ly^ cups flour, 

2 oz, unsweetened, 2 teaspoons baking 

chocolate, powder. 

Cream butter with sugar and add well-beaten yolks ; dissolve 
chocolate in water and add to mixture ; add milk and flour with 
powder ; beat whites stiff, add and bake in slow oven thirty-five 
to forty minutes. Whipped cream, jelly or chocolate may be put 
between layers and icing on top. 

DATE TORTE 

16 dates, 3 tablespoons grated 
1 tablespoon wine, chocolate, 

brandy or lemon juice, 1 teaspoon each of gr. 

9 yolks egg, cinnamon and allspice, 
\y^ cups sugar, 1 heaping cup full cracker 

crumbs. 
Rub dates to smooth paste with wine, brandy or lemon juice, 
beat two whole eggs and seven yolks, add sugar, beat again, add 
dates, chocolate, spices and cracker crumbs. Stir well add well 
beaten white of eggs. Bake forty minutes in good size spring 
form. Prunes may be used instead of dates. 

78 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



DEVIL'S FOOD 

1 cup sugar, 1 heaping cup of flour, 

1 egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, 

1 cup of milk, Yi cup butter, 

V/i, teaspoons baking y% lb. unsweetened 

powder, chocolate. 

Cream sugar with egg, add milk, flour, baking powder and van- 
illa. Melt butter with chocolate and add. Bake slowly in layers. 
When cool fill in between layers with jelly. Whipped cream on 
top. 

DOBORST TORTE 

6 eggs, ^ cup flour, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking 

1 teaspoon vanilla, powder. 

Beat yoke of eggs with sugar — add flour, baking powder, van 
ilia and beaten whites. This quantity makes five thin layers. 

FILLING FOR DOBORST TORTE 

3 squares of sweet 3 eggs, 

vanilla chocolate, ^ lb. sweet butter. 

V/i. cups sugar. 
Grate chocolate, add eggs and beat. Add sugar and vanilla. 
beat again and cook in double boiler until thick. When well 
cooled, add creamed butter. Mix well, spread between layers 
and on top. 

• DUCHESS CAKE 

\yz cups butter, 1 pint flour, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking 

6 eggs, powder. 

Any flavoring to taste. 

Cream butter with sugar, add eggs, two at a time, beating ten 
minutes each time, add flour sifted with baking powder and flav- 
oring. Bake in shallow pan for thirty minutes, using any desired 
icing. 

79 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



EGOLESS, BUTTERLESS AND MILKLESS 

2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons shortening, 

2 cups water Yi teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons cinnamon, 1 box seeded raisins, 

3 cups flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking 

soda. 

Boil all ingredients except flour and baking soda. When cool 
add flour and baking soda and beat well. Line well greased pan 
with paper. Bake one hour in moderate oven. 

FARINA TORTE 

6 eggs, Yi. cup chopped almonds, 

V/i cups powdered sugar, 1 cup fine sifted farina, 
1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 teaspoon (heaping) 

baking powder. 

Beat yolks with sugar, add nuts, farina and baking powder. 
Fold in the stiflf beaten whites, bake in two layers in slow oven. 
Bake one day before using. Before serving pour one-half pint 
cream over layers and beat Yi pint of cream very thick to put 
between layers and on top. 

FRUIT CAKE 
(Dark) 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 cup sugar. Handful currants and 

3 eggs, raisins, 

Yi cup chopped nuts, 2 teaspoons cocoa, 

1 cup thick sour milk, lYi cups flour. 

Cream butter with sugar, add eggs, milk, baking soda dissolved 
in water, currants and raisins, chapped nuts and cocoa mixed 
v.ath a little water and add flour. Do not beat too hard. Bake 
in slow oven for two hours. 

80 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



FRUIT CAKE 
(Dark) 

1 cup brown sugar, Cinnamon and cloves, 

1 cup butter. Pinch of salt, 

2 eggs, 1 lb. each raisins and 
1 cup molasses, currants, 

1 cup cold coffee, 1 lb. citron cut fine, 

1 teaspoon salaratus, Rind (grated) of one 

2 teaspoons each of mace, lemon, 

2 cups of flour. 

Use ingredients according to rotation. Bake two hours in 
moderate oven. Grease and line pan with parafine paper. 

GERMAN BUTTER COOKIES 

1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 

2 lbs. flour, 1 teaspoonful baking 
7 eggs, powder. 

Crumble butter with flour ; beat yolks with sugar, add, then add 
baking powder and beaten whites of four eggs. Roll J4 inch 
thick, cut, sprinkle with sugar, bake a light brown. 

GOLD CAKE 

Yi, cup butter, ^ cup milk, 

1 cup sugar, 1^4 cups flour. 

Yolks of nine eggs, 1 teaspoon lemon extract, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten yolks, milk, flour and 
baking powder sifted five times and lemon extract. Bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 

JELLY ROLL 

4 eggs, Yz teaspoon baking 

1 cup of sugar, powder, 

1 cup of flour, 2 tablespoons warm water. 

Beat yolks with sugar, add sifted flour and baking powder and 
water. Bake in large layer cake tin about twenty minutes. Spread 
with jelly while hot and roll. Cover with sugar or icing. 

81 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



JOHNNY CAKE 

1 cup cornmeal, 1 cup milk, 

1 cup flour, Lump butter size of egg, 

1 egg, 4 teaspoons baking 

powder. 



Mix well and bake thirty minutes. 



KISSES 

Well beaten whites of four eggs. 

Beat in very gradually Ij/^ cups of powdered sugar until mix- 
ture will hold its shape. Drop from tip of spoon in paper-covered 
tins and bake a very light brown. Place ^ inch apart. 

LAYER CAKE 

3 eggs, iy2 teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar, powder, 

lj4 cups flour, y^ cup water. 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Cream eggs and sugar, add flour, baking powder, water and 
flavoring. Bake in two layers about twenty minutes. 

LINZER TORTE 

% lb. butter, i^ lb. flour, 

54 lb, sugar, 14 lb. ground almonds, 

1 egg, 1 teaspoon full cinnamon, 

2 teaspoonsful baking 1% teaspoon cloves, 
powder, 1 ounce each citron and 

2 tablespoons whiskey, or orange peal ground or 

brandy, chopped. 

Cream butter and sugar, add other ingredients in order given. 
Put on ice over night. Roll out thick, retain sufficient for top 
strips ; fill with strawberry or prune preserves. 

82 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



MARGUERITES 

Beat whites of one egg; add one-fourth cup sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls nut meats; spread on eighteen wafer crackers and 
place in pans in moderate oven for a few minutes till slightly 
brown. 



MOLASSES CAKE 

1 tablespoon butter, ^ cup flour, 

54 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon each cocoa, 
Yz teaspoon allspice, cinnamon and ginger, 
y^ lb. black coffee, 1 cup milk. 

Cream butter and sugar, add remaining ingredients, bake in 
moderate oven about ^ hour. 

NOTHINGS OR SNOWBALLS 

One t.%%, two teaspoonfuls cream or milk ; butter the size of 
a walnut ; flour to make dough very stifif. Roll thin and cut the 
size of a saucer. Fry in hot grease. Sprinkle with sugar. 

NUT CAKE 

y2 lb. butter, 1 cup of warm milk, 

2 small cups sugar, 4 cups sifted flour, 

6 eggs, 2^4 teaspoons baking 

1 cup ground or chopped powder, 

nuts. Juice of 1 orange. 

Rind of one lemon (grated). 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs one at a time, add balance 
of ingredients in order given. Bake ^ hours. This can be 
sliced and filled and covered with whipped cream. 

83 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



NUT TORTE 

8 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking 

1 cup sugar, powder, 

Yi cup bread crumbs, 3 cups ground hazel, 

walnuts, or almonds. 

Cream yolks, eggs and sugar, add crumbs, baking powder and 
nuts, fold in stiff beaten whites. Bake in buttered spring form 
Yi hour. When cool slice and fill with whipped cream and on 
top and decorate. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

Yz cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

Yz cup butter. Pinch of salt, 

1 cup rolled oats, 1 egg, 

1 cup of flour. 

Cream sugar and butter and add ingredients. Drop on buttered 
tins about two inches apart, bake quickly in hot oven. 

ONE EGG CAKE 

Yi cup butter, 2 cups flour, 

1 cup sugar, 3 teaspoons flour, 

1 egg, 1 cup chopped nuts and 

1 cup milk, raisins. 

Cream butter and sugar, add other ingredients, bake about 
thirty minutes. 

POUND CAKE 

1 lb. butter, 1 wine glass brandy, 

1 lb. powdered sugar, 9 eggs. 

Grated rind of 1 lemon, \Yn lbs, flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add lemon rind, brandy, yolks of eggs 
one at a time, then add flour and fold in beaten whites. Bake 
about one hour in slow oven. 

84 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



QUICK CAKE 

^ cup powdered sugar, 1^ cups flour, 

IJ^ cups brown sugar, 3 teaspoons baking 

2 eggs, powder, 

Yi cup milk, Yi, teaspoon each cinna- 

Yi lb. dates (chopped) mon, and nutmeg. 

Mix all at once, beat four minutes, bake thirty-five to forty 
minutes. 

RICHARDSON CAKE 

Yi cup butter, ^ cup water, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

2 cups flour. Whites of 5 eggs, 

A pinch of mace. 

Cream butter and sugar, then add other ingredients and last 
the well-beaten whites of eggs. Bake in long pan. When cold 
cut in small squares and ice. 

SCHNECKEN 

2 cakes Fleischmann's 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Yeast, Pinch of salt, 

1 cup milk, V/i cups of flour. 

Scald and cool milk, dissolve yeast in same, add sugar, flour 
and salt and set in warm place to rise for an hour. 

6^ cups flour, Yi lb. butter, 

1 qt. milk scalded and 1 cup sugar, 

cooled, 2 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, beat well, then add, warmed 
sifted flour; add milk gradually, then fold in sponge and beat 
well. More flour can be added if necessary so it can be kneaded. 
Then place in greased bowl and allow to rise two hours. Then 
roll, thin, cut in strips, sprinkle with flakes of butter, sugar, 
cinnamon and butter ; roll up ; place in pans end-wise and let 
rise again for- two hours. Then bake. 

85 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES 

1 cup shortening, 1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cupful brown sugar, 1 teasponful ginger, 

1 cupful Porto Rico 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

molasses, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 

1 cupful sour milk. About 5 cupsful pastry 

2 teaspoonsful soda, flour. 

Cream the shortening and blend with it the brown sugar; add 
the molasses and sour milk. Sift together three cupfuls of flour 
with the soda, salt, and spices. Add to the first mixture together 
with the vinegar. Add the rest of the flour, taking care to keep 
the dough a soft one. Chill overnight in the refrigerator or other 
cool place and roll out in the morning — not too thin. Cut in 
desired shapes and bake on greased baking sheets about fifteen 
minutes. 



SPICE CAKE 

y^ cup butter, I/2 teaspoon each cloves, 

3 eggs, cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon baking soda, 1 cup seeded raisins, 

Yi grated nutmeg, Yz cup sour milk, 
2 cups flour. 

Cream butter and yolks ; add other ingredients. Bake ^ of an 
hour. 

SPICE CAKE 

1 egg, 2 small cups flour, 

Yi cup melted butter, 1 teaspoon powder, 

^ cup each sugar, milk, y^ teaspoon each cinna- 

molasses, mon, cloves, allspice. 

Mix all ingredients and bake % of an hour. Ice if desired. 

86 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs, 1 cup flour, 

1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Beat yolks well with sugar, sifted five times. Add flour, baking 
powder sifted five times. Fold in well beaten whites. Flavor and 
bake in slow oven forty minutes. 

SAND TORTE 

1 cup butter, 2 teaspoons baking 
1 cup sugar, powder, 

6 eggs, Yz lemon, rind and juice, 

1 cup flour, 1^ tablespoons rum or 
Yn lb. cornstarch, brandy.. 

Mash' butter, cream with sugar ; add beaten yolks ; mix flour, 
cornstarch and baking powder together and add to mixture 
with lemon and brandy. Bake thirty minutes. 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Take eight lady fingers, one quart strawberries, one-half pint 
cream, two cups of sugar ; mash one cup of berries, split the 
lady fingers, moisted with the juice of the crushed berries and 
use to line a serving-dish. Place in the bottom of the dish a layer 
of berries, season with fine sugar. Whip cream to a froth, add a 
layer of it, then another of the fruit and sugar, and so on until 
all the fruit and cream are used. Place on ice and serve very cold. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 
(Old Fashioned) 

Make biscuit dough (see Biscuits). Bake in large pan; when 
finished, cut in two layers with sharp knife, spread liberally 
(both layers) with butter. Have two boxes of berries mashed 
with sugar (four hours before using), spread berries on each 
layer, put together and reserve remaining sauce to pour over 
when serving. Serve hot. Use cream to pour over, also, if 
desired. 

87 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



SURPRISE CAKE 

Make a large cake of either sponge or cup cake batter. When 
cool, cut off top, take out inside of cake ; crumb it, mix with ^4 or 
1^ pint cream and any kind of fruit with juice. Replace top, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. Grated pineapple and crushed 
strawberries are best. Bake day before using. 

STREUSEL KUCHEN 

1 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 

1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking 

4 eggs, powder, 

Juice and rind of j4 lemon. 

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs one at a time, flour, baking 
powder and lemon. Bake in buttered tins about yi hour tiU brown. 
Before putting in oven, crumb with fingers two tablespoons each 
butter, sugar and flour. Sprinkle over cake and if desired, add 
chopped almonds. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

6 eggs. Pinch of salt, 

J4 teaspoon cream of 1 cup sugar, 

tartar, 3/^ cup flour. 

Beat stiff with salt white of eggs. Add cream of tartar. Sift 
sugar, add well-beaten yolks and flour sifted five times. Flavor 
and bake one hour in slow oven. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

Yz cup butter, i^ cup milk, 

1 cup sugar, 4 to 5 cups flour, 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar; add egg, milk and add enough flour 
(with baking powder) till dough is stiff enough to roll thin, about 
j4 inch thick. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake ten 
minutes in hot oven. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



WALNUT LAYER CAKE 

6 eggs, 1 lb. rolled walnuts. 

54 cup sugar, 

Beat yolks and sugar ; add walnuts. Fold in stiff beaten whites. 
Flavor with vanilla and bake in layers in quick oven. Fill and 
cover with whipped cream. 

WALNUT CAKE 

4 eggs, 1 dozen chopped uneedas, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 cup chopped walnuts. 

Beat yolks and sugar; add uneedas, powder, nuts and stiff- 
beaten whites. Bake thirty minutes. 

WASHINGTON CAKE 

1 egg, 2 cups sour milk, 

1 cup molasses, 3J^ cups flour, 

1 cup sugar, 1^ teaspoons baking soda, 

1 teaspoon each cinnamon, y^ cup each raisins and 
and ground cloves, currants, 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Beat ^%g and add all ingredients. Bake about i^ of an hour. 



89 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"The only way to have a friend is to be one." 

CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



BOILED ICING 

Boil one cup granulated sugar gently, without stirring, until 
it threads quickly when lifted with a spoon ; turn slowly into 
stiffly-beaten white of one egg ; beat until stiff enough to spread ; 
add one-fourth teaspoonful of any prepared extract. 

BOILED MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING 

y2 lb. maple sugar, White of 1 egg, 

or 1 cup brown sugar, y^ teaspoon cream tartar, 

1 cup boiling water, Yi teaspoon vanilla. 

Prepare same as boiled icing. 

BUTTER FILLING 

Y2 lb. butter, 1 tablespoon vanilla, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon cocoa, 

2 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar; add vanilla, cocoa and stiff beaten 
whites. This is enough to place between and on top of layers. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING 

1 cup clear coffee, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 

Yi cup sugar, (with a little water) 

Butter size of small egg, ^ cake grated chocolate, 

^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix altogether, except vanilla. Cook for a few minutes and 
add vanilla. When cool spread on cake. 

ftl 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CHOCOLATE ICING 

1 cup boiling water, 1^/^ cups sugar, 

J^, of y^ lb. butter, 1 teaspoon flour, 

chocolate, 1 teaspoon butter. 

Boil water, chocolate, sugar, and add flour well mixed with 
butter. Boil till thick. Add flavor and spread. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Boil Yz cup cocoa, % cup sugar with J4 cup water until it 
threads. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Same as vanilla, adding two ounces bitter chocolate melted 
carefully in pot. Flavor with vanilla. 

CREAM FILLING 

Yi cup sugar, y^ teaspoon salt, 

H cup flour, 2 eggs, 

2 cups scalded milk. 

Mix first four ingredients and gradually pour into milk. Cook 
fifteen minutes in .double boiler, stirring constantly until thick. 
Cool and flavor. 

FIG FILLING 

1 lb. figs, y^ cup sugar, 

1 cup boiling water. Juice of ^ lemon. " 

Chop figs. Mix altogether and cook until a smooth paste. Let 
cool before using. 

ICE CREAM CAKE FILLING 

Boil three cups sugar in one cup water to a thick syrup ; beat 
the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and gradually pour the 
boiling syrup over it, stirring vigorously. Season with vanilla, 
lemon or orange juice and beat until cool. 

92 



CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



LEMON FILLING 

Grate whole of one or two lemons, mix' with one-half cup 
powdered sugar and beaten whites of two eggs. 

LEMON ICING 

Add grated rind and one tablespoonful lemon juice to one 
tablespoonful boiling water or milk and one cup confectioners" 
sugar. 

MAPLE ICING 

Cook one cup brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls water, one and 
one-half teaspoonful vinegar, until it strings or threads. Pour 
this into the well-beaten whites of two eggs, stirring constantly 
and then beat about three minutes. Spread on cake and allow 
to stand a few hours before using. 

ORANGE FILLING 

y2 cup sugar, J4 teaspoon lemon juice, 

2 tablespoons flour. Orange rind, 

y^ cup orange juice, 1 teaspoon butter, 

1 egg. 
Cook in double boiler. Stir constantly until thick. When cool 
it is ready for use. 

ORANGE ICING 

Add grated rind of one-half orange, two tablespoonfuls orange 
juice, to one cup confectioners' sugar, a little at a time, until thin 
enough to Spread ; also one teaspoonful lemon juice. 

STRAWBERRY ICING 

Beat together one cup strawberriesi, one white of egg and 
one cup sugar. Spread on cake and eat at once. 

VANILLA ICING 

Beat whites of one &gg well with one-half cup powdered sugar ; 
add little vanilla and spread with knife dipped in cold water. 

93 



MEMORANDUM 



94 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



"God bless our wives. 
They keep our hives 
In little bees and honey; 
They darn our socks, 
They soothe life's shocks. 
And don't they spend the money. 



SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS 



A LA NEWBURG SAUCE 

1 tablespoon flour, 2 eggs, 

% cup butter, 1 wine glass sherry, 

1 pint milk, Salt, paprika. 

Chopped parsley. 

Dilute flour in water ; melt butter. Strain one pint millt. Beat 
yolks of eggs, add sherry, then a little hot milk to which flour 
and butter with salt and paprika have been added. Add remainder 
of milk, parsley and boil altogether for a few minutes. 

BRANDY SAUCE 

1 small cup sugar. Piece of butter size of 

1 egg, walnut, 

1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons cold water, 

^ pint boiling milk. 
Beat ingredients together and pour into boiling milk or water. 
Flavor with brandy to taste. 

BROWN SAUCE 

Brown two tablespoons butter or other fat, if desired add one 
small onion chopped and brown ; add two tablespoons flour, 
brown and add gradually one cup hot water, meat, fish or vege- 
table stock. Makes one cup sauce. 

95 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CAPER SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter, 1^ cups boiling water, 

3 tablespoons flour, 54 cup capers, 

Salt, Few drops of onion juice, 

Cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt, pepper and gradually boiling water. 
Cook ten minutes. Add chopped capers, onion juice and just 
before serving, add butter. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

lYz tablespoons corn- 2 ounces butter chocolate, 

starch, 2 eggs, 

3 cups milk, Yz cup powdered sugar. 

Mix cornstarch with J4 cup milk. Add remainder gradually. 
Cook in double boiler until thick. Add melted chocolate, beaten 
whites, sugar and unbeaten yolks. Stir well ; cook one minute. 
Add vanilla and cool before serving. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Prepare white sauce and pour gradually over the beaten yolks 
of two eggs and cook slowly until thick, stirring constantly. 
Two tablespoonfuls wine may be added to flavor. Serve at once, 
hot, over cooked green peas, asparagus, fish, meat or poultry. 

CURRY SAUCE 

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls 
flour and two of curry powder; rub smooth and add enough 
white sauce or hot water to make a very creamy sauce. Very 
good for left over lamb cuts in cubes. 

EGG SAUCE 

2 hard boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon flour, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup boiling water. 

When cold, chop egg fine : melt butter, mix flour ; pour in boil- 
ing water and add eggs. Cook until thick, and serve plain or 
on toast. Season to taste. 

96 



SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS AND PUDDINGS 



FRENCH DRESSING 

Mix 3^ teaspoon salt, J4 teaspoon pepper, lj4 tablespoons 
vinegar, three or four tablespoons olive oil. Blend well and serve 
cold. More or less vinegar or olive oil may be used. 

HARD SAUCE 

Cream one-third cup butter, one-third cup sugar, one-third tea- 
spoonful lemon extract, two-thirds teaspoonful vanilla. Put on 
ice. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

Same as "Lemon Sauce for Fish" using boiling water instead of 
fish. 

HOT HORSERADISH SAUCE 

4 tablespoons horseradish, 1 teaspoon each sugar, 
4 tablespoons finely pow- salt, 

dered cracker crumbs, 2 teaspoons vinegar, 

Yi cup cream, 2 dashes pepper. 

Put in double boiler. Stir well and heat thoroughly. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS 

1 cup sugar, 2 cups boiling water, 

2 tablespoons cornstarch, Rind and juice of 1 lemon, 

2 tablespoons butter. 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add water and cook ten minutes. 
Add lemon and butter. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR FISH 

1 lemon, 1 tablespoon butter, 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoon flour, 

1 cup fish stock.. 
Melt butter. Add flour, fish stock and cook until thick. Take 
from fire. Add rind and juice of lemon and beaten yolks. 
Season to taste. 

97 



r^EClPES TRIED AND TRUE 



MAYONNAISE 

Butter size of egg, 3 eggs, 

1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon mustard, 

1 cup milk, y^ teaspoon red pepper, 

1 cup vinegar. 

Melt butter, blend flour ; add gradually milk. Cook in double 
boiler until thick. Then add three whole eggs well beaten with 
remainder of ingredients. Cook a few minutes longer. This 
will make one pint. If it thickens too much, a little milk can be 
added to thin it. 

MUSTARD DRESSING FOR BOILED FISH 

5 hard boiled eggs, Red & black pepper, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 lemon, 

1 teaspoon sugar, 1 small onion, 

1 teaspoon dry mustard, % pint cream. 

^lash yolks until smooth ; add all ingredients. Cook in double 
boiler ; add cream. Garnish fish with chopped parsley and white 
of egg chopped fine. Pour over fish when ready to serve. 

MUSTARD SAUCE 

Boil yi bottle mustard with one cup fish stock adding salt, 
.pepper, one teaspoonful sugar and paprika; when thick, add yolk 
of one or two eggs and served cold with chopped parsley. Good 
for salmon. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Brown two tablespoonfuls butter or fat with two tablespoon- 
f uls flour ; add pepper and salt and one cup mushroom liquid : 
add one-fourth can mushrooms, drained, rinsed and cut in quar- 
ters or slices, with a little chopped parsley. Serve hot over meat. 

ROULETTE SAUCE 

Make a cream sauce, add one large tablespoonful of catsup 
and mushrooms. 

98 



SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS AND PUDDINGS 



OIL MAYONNAISE 

1 teaspoon mustard, % teaspoon cayenne 

1 teaspoon powdered pepper, 
sugar, Yolk of 1 egg, 

^ teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

or 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Mix first 4 ingredients, add egg, beat well. Add oil gradually 
drop by drop, beating constantly. As mixture thickens, add oil, 
vinegar or lemon juice alternately until very thick. Keep cold. 

SCHARFE FISH SAUCE 

Melt one tablespoonful butter, add one tablespoonful flour 
and one cup hot fish stock. Remove from fire and pour very 
gradually on the beaten yolk of one egg. Pour while hot over 
fish or fishballs. 

SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE 

2 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 

2 tablespoons butter or 1 cup hot vegetable liquid, 

fat, or soup stock, 

2 tablespoons dark brown Salt and pepper, 
sugar, 

Brown butter or fat. Blend flour; add other ingredients and 
cook until smooth. Pour over •string beans, cabbage, soup, meat, 
and white beans and boil for awhile. For tongue and fish, raisins, 
almonds, cinnamon and cloves may be added. 

TARTAR SAUCE 

1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

1 tablespoon Worcester- ^ teaspoon salt, 

shire sauce, Ys cup butter. 

Mix the first four ingredients and heat in double boiler. 
Brown butter and strain into mixture. Serve cold over fish. 

. 99 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook one teaspoonful of chopped onion and one can of toma- 
toes for fifteen minutes. Melt two tablespoon fuls butter; add 
to it two tablespoonfuls flour, a little salt and pepper, stirring 
constantly. Strain tomatoes, add to butter and flour mixture. 
Cook together till smooth. 

WHITE SAUCE 

Melt two tablespoonfuls butter, remove from fire and mix with 
two tablespoonfuls flour. Cook until it bubbles, then add two- 
thirds cup of hot milk at once and the other one-third, gradually, 
and boil, stirring constantly until thick enough. Season with 
pepper and salt. 

WINE SAUCE 

Heat one cup of sherry or Maderia wine to the boiling point 
and pour slowly into two eggs that have been beaten light with 
three-fourths of a cup of sugar, stirring all the time. Cook until 
thick, pour in dish and keep warm till ready for use. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

2 cups granulated sugar, 5 cups boiling water. 

Melt sugar in saucepan and heat, stirring constantly until gold- 
en brown. Then add boiling water and cook three minutes. 



100 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



ANCHOVY SANDWICHES 

Remove bones of one dozen anchovies, cream three hard- 
boiled eggs with two tablespoonfuls sweet butter; add a few 
grains of cayenne pepper, mix all together. Use on very thin 
slices of buttered white bread. 



CHEESE AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES 

Cream two tablespoonfuls butter, add one-fourth cup grated 
American cheese, one teaspoonful vinegar, salt, paprika, mustard 
and anchovy essence. Spread between thin slices of bread. 



CREAM CHEESE AND OLIVES 

Stone and chop olives fine and mix with cream cheese, adding 
sweet cream to moisten. Salt and pepper to taste. 



EGG AND SARDINE SANDICHES 

Take equal quantities of egg yolks and sardines, the latter 
drained, skinned and boned. Season with salt, cayenne pepper 
and mustard. Rub until smooth and add lemon puice or olive 
oil to make a paste. Spread between slices of buttered bread or 
on fresh wafers, or use mayonnaise in place of lemon juice and 
other seasoning. 



CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Chop chicken through chopper, mix with plenty mayonnaise, 
pepper and salt and spread on bread. Smoked tongue may be 
used the same way. 

101 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



EGG SANDWICHES 

Cut fine whites of four hard-boiled eggs ; force the yolks 
through a potato ricer ; mix yolks and whites, season with salt and 
pepper and moisten with mayonnaise. Spread mixture between 
thin slices of buttered bread. 

FRUIT AND NUT SANDWICH 

Chop one pound raisins, dates, one-half pound walnuts, two 
oranges, two lemons and mix with fruit juices. 

LEBER WURST SANDWICHES 

Make a paste of ten cents worth of leberwurst, one-half cup 
salad dressing, two tablespoons rendered butter and two table- 
spoonfuls vinegar. Spread on thin slices of bread. 

NUT AND CHEESE 

Mix with half roll of cream or Neufchatel cheese one-fourth 
cup chopped walnuts; add salt and pepper. 

PATE DE FOI GRAS SANDWICHES 

Smother small goose livers until soft, in goose fat ; mash 
into paste with three hard-cooked eggs ; add salt, red pepper 
and little grated onion. Spread on small, thin slices of toast. 

VEAL MIXTURE FOR SANDWICH 

Mix and spread between thin slices of bread one-half pound 
finely-chopped roast veal, one chopped apple, one celery heart, 
chopped fine ; six walnuts, chopped fine, and enough mayonnaise 
to make a smooth paste. 



102 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



EGGS, OMELETS AND PANCAKES 



BREAD PAN-CAKES 

Soak 1 cup stale white bread in milk or water until thoroughly 
moistened. Squeeze dry. Mix with one egg, salt and pepper and 
one tablespoonful of flour. Form in small cakes and fry in little 
hot tj,utter or both sides until brown. 

CREAMY OMELET 

Beat yolks of two eggs with one tablespoonful of milk; add 
salt and pepper and to this the stiff-beaten whites. Butter pan, 
pour in mixture and cook slowly, drawing edges toward centre 
with knife until whole is set and nicely brown. May be served 
with jelly. 

EGGS IN A NEST 

Separate whites from yolks, beat whites until dry. Butter a 
small fancy dish in which eggs are to be served, sprinkle fine 
bread crumbs on the bottom. Place beaten whites in dish, make 
a hollow and slip in yolks, set bowl in saucepan containing 
boiling water, cover and cook until whites are firm or brown 
under flame, if desired. 

EGGS AU GRATIN 

3 hard boiled eggs, 3 tablespoons butter, 

1 teaspoon chopped 1 cup white sauce, 

onions, Y^ cup grated American 
1 teaspoon chopped cheese, 

parsley, Salt and pepper. 

Cut eggs in half length or crosswise, remove yolks and balance 
of tgg in ramikins. Cream yolks, mix with butter, onion, parsley, 
salt and pepper. Fill in cup of eggs. Pour white sauce over, 
sprinkle with cheese and brown. 

103 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



FRENCH TOAST 

% cup flour, % teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoon baking powder, J/^ cup milk, 

1 egg. Sliced white bread. 

Sift together >4 cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder and 
one teaspoon salt. Add I/2 cup milk slowly and well beaten egg. 
Into this dip bread, fry in hot fat or butter, drain and serve at 
once with powdered sugar. 

GERMAN PANCAKE 

2 eggs, 2% tablespoons flour, 
1 cup milk. Salt. 

Beat eggs; add other ingredients, beat well. Turn in hot 
buttered pan. When brown, on one side, turn and brown. 
Serve with lemon juice, jelly or sugar. Three thin pancakes. 

GOLDENROD TOAST 

(Hard Boiled Eggs) 

Separate yolks and whites of eggs and chop fine. Put yolks 
in a warm place ; make a white sauce ; add the whites to sauce. 
Heat thoroughly and pour mixture on toast. Press yolks over 
the whole, through a fine strainer, and garnish with parsley. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 egg, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup milk, Pinch of salt. 

2 cups flour. 

Mix well and fry in small cakes on hot griddle. 

WAFFLES 

Yi cup milk, ^ cup butter, 

1 qt. flour, (4 cups) 3 eggs, 

3 teaspoons baking powder, Pinch of salt. 

Rub butter with flour in which baking powder has been sifted. 
Add eggs, salt, and ^ cup of milk more or less to form a thin 
batter. Fry on hot well-greased waffle iron. 

104 



MEMORANDUM 



lOS 



MEMORANDUM 



106 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



PASSOVER DISHES 



ALMOND COOKIES 

1 lb. sugar, 2 cups matzo meal, 

8 eggs, 2 tablespoons potato flour. 

Yz lb. almonds (shelled), 

Stir ZL'eW sugar and yolks of eggs, mix matzo meal and flour 
thoroughly and add, blanch and split almonds and add, and last 
the stiff-beaten whites of eggs. Grease pans, line with paper and 
spread — bake fairly fast. Cut in slices and toast. 



BEOLAS 

Six eggs — Sufficient matzo meal to give it consistency. — Drop 
this from the point of a spoon into boiling fat or olive oil. 
When light brown, take out and drain. Serve with a syrup or 
with sugar and cinnamon. 



BROD TORTE 

10 eggs. Grated peel of one lemon, 

2 cups powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

Yn powdered almonds, % teaspoon each allspice 
1 cup matzo flour, and cloves. 

Juice of one orange. 

Beat yolk of eggs well with sugar, add grated almonds, orange 
juice, lemon peel, matzo flour, all the spices and last well-heated 
whites of eggs. Bake in slow oven. Can be served with whipped 
cream. 

107 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CANDIED PEARS 

2 lbs. of dried pears, 1 glass of water. 

1% lbs. sugar. 

Boil pears until soft. Cook sugar in water. Put pears in 
boiled sugar. Cook until all moisture is absorbed. Then place 
singly on a moist board. When cold dredge well with sugar. 

CHAROCIS 

Chop fine three apples, a few sweet almonds grated, some 
seeded raisins and add a little ground cinnamon. 

CHOCOLATE TORTE 

4 eggs, . y^ lb. seeded raisins, 

J^ cup sugar, i/^ cup matzo meal, 

% lb. almonds, % cup wine, 

54 lb. sweet grated choc- Juice of one orange, 
olate. 

Beat sugar with yolks of eggs, add almonds blanched and 
finely chopped, then raisins, matzo meal, wine, orange juice and 
last well beaten whites. Bake in spring form in moderate oven 
for about forty minutes. 

CRIMSEL 

3 matzos, 3 eggs, 

2 tablespoons seeded ^ cup sugar, 

raisins. Tablespoon lemon juice, 

2 tablespoons chopped Pinch salt, 

almonds. Grated rind of one lemon. 

Mix matzos which have been soaked and squeezed dry 
with yolks of eggs, almonds, sugar, raisins, lemon juice, salt, 
grated lemon rind and well beaten whites. Stir well. Drop from 
spoon into deep hot fat. Serve hot with stewed prunes or 
apple sauce. 

108 



PASSOVER DISHES 



GRATED APPLE PUDDING 

6 large juicy apples, Peel of one lemon, 

8 eggs, Yi cup matzo meal, 

^ lb. powdered sugar. Few almonds. 

Stir sugar and yolks of eggs, grated apples, matzos meal, 
grated lemon peel and last beaten whites of eggs. Just before 
baking sprinkle top with blanched chopped almonds. 

KHREMSEL 

2 eggs, 1 cup matzo flour, 

2 tablespoons sugar, A little salt, 

^ cup fat. 

Mix matzo flour and fat thoroughly ; beat eggs and sugar and 
salt and mix altogether. Form round disks, fill with any pre- 
serves close them into three-cornered pieces and bake in well- 
greased tin. 

LEMON CAKE 

4 eggs, Yn cup matzo meal, 

^ lb. sugar. Rind of one lemon. 

Stir yolks of eggs and sugar well, add matzo meal, grated 
rind of one lemon and last fold in beaten whites of eggs. Grease 
a warm pan and bake in a moderate oven. 

MACAROONS 

1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. sweet almonds, 

6 egg whites. 

Pound and blanch almonds, mix with stiffly-beaten egg white 
and sugar. Milk well together. Bake on paper or wafers in mod- 
erate oven. 

109 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



MARROW BALLS FOR SOUP 

Take marrow from a raw bone, mash until smooth. Add 
two whole eggs, a small piece of soaked matzo, pepper and salt 
and enough potato-meal so mixture will come almost clean from 
the bowl. Roll into small balls and boil in soup about three 
minutes before serving. 



MATZOS DROPPED IN EGG 

Beat as many eggs and soaked matzos as required. Fry 
quickly in fat or butter to a light brown, lay on a platter, sprinkle 
with a mixture of sugar and cinnamon. 



MATZO KLEIS 

4 matzos, Matzo meal, 

^ onion, Pepper, salt, 

4 eggs, Parsley. 

Soak matzos in cold water, press out all water. Add seasoning 
and onion chopped and browned. Beat eggs, add with enough 
meal to roll into balls. The less meal, the lighter the balls will be. 
Boil ten minutes before serving. 



MATZO PLUM PUDDING 

Yz lb. chopped suet, 2 matzos, soaked, 

^ lb. sugar, ^ lb. sieved potato flour, 

Yz raisins (seeded and ^^ lemon juice and rind, 

chopped), 1 teaspoon ground cinna- 
Yi lb. currants, mon, 

Yi lb. mixed peel, 8 eggs, 
1 glass rum. 

Drain matzos and beat all ingredients together; boil for eight 
hours in mold. Serve with wine or lemon sauce. 

110 



PASSOVER DISHES 



MATZO PIE CRUST 

iy2 matzos, 2 eggs, 

1 tablespoon fat, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
^ cup matzo meal, % teaspoon salt. 

Soak matzo and press dry; heat fat, add matzos. When dry, 
add meal, eggs, sugar, salt. Mix well and press into pie platter 
with hands. Have J4 inch thick. 

MATZO SHALET 

3 soaked matzos, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

2 grated apples, Grated rind of orange or 
9 eggs, lemon, 

1 cup sugar. Few chopped almonds, 
1^ cups seeded raisins, ^ lb. fat. 

Beat eggs and sugar well, add all ingredients ; drain matzos 
well and beat all light. Melt fat in baking dish, pour in mixture 
and bake in moderate oven 1% hours. Serve hot with wine 
sauce. 

NUT TORTE 

2 lbs. walnuts, 12 eggs, 

1 lb. sugar, 1 glass fine matzo meal, 

1 wine glass wine. 

Beat yolks and sugar till almost white ; mix chopped nuts and 
meal and add to first mixture ; add wine and stir well ; beat 
whites stifif and fold in gently. Spread pan. with fine wrapping 
paper ; bake in moderate oven one hour. This makes a large cake 
and keeps fresh several days. 

POTATO PUDDING 

4 eggs, % lemon, 

Yz cup sugar, ^ lb. cold, grated pota- 

2 tablespoons almonds, toes, 

^ teaspoon salt. 
Beat yolks well with sugar, add other ingredients and beaten 
whites. Pour into greased dish, bake in pan (half filled with 
boiling water) >4 hour. Serve with wine or chocolate sauce. 

Ill 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



PRESERVED ORANGE PEEL 

One-quarter pound dried orange peel, one-half pound sugar. 
Cook orange peel, until soft. Strain and wash them. Boil the 
sugar with one glass of water. Put the peels in and cook to a 
sticky consistency. 

RAISIN WINE 

To two pounds of raisins add three quarts of cold water, hand- 
ful of stick cinnamon, and a few tablespoonsful of sugar. Let 
it boil until the raisins have swelled, and the water has been 
reduced to half the original quantity. When cold, press and 
strain through a bag. 

RELISH 

Three pounds radishes, three pounds sugar. Grate the radishes 
on a coarse grate; boil the sugar with two glasses of water and 
put the radishes in. Stir frequently. Put in some ginger and 
one-half pound blanched almonds. Cook until solid. 



SAUCE FOR MATZO PUDDING 

Yz cup water, i^ cup sugar, 

3 slices lemon, 1 teaspoon potato flour, 

y% teaspoon cinnamon, 4 eggs, 

1 cup white wine. 

Mix first four ingredients and beat until well flavored. Moisten 
flour with little water, add and stir. Pour hot wine gradually 
into well-beaten yolks, stir and add beaten whites. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS AND MATZOS 

Break matzos in small pieces, pour boiling water through, 
drain quickly. Beat three eggs well, add matzos and scramble 
in hot pan with butter or fat. Scrape carefully with spoon from 
bottom of pan. Add sugar. 

112 



PASSOVER DISHES 



SPONGE CAKE 

1 lb sugar, 1^ glasses fine meal, 

10 eggs, 1 lemon (grated rind), 

2 tablespoons potato flour. 

Mix sugar and yolks until almost white; add all ingredients 
mixing well; fold in beaten whites; bake in moderate oven % 
hour. 



SPONGE CAKE 

8 eggs, 1 lernon (grated rind), 

IJ^ cups powdered sugar, i^ cup potato flour. 

Beat eggs and sugar until very light, add rind and flour mixing 
well without beating. Bake in quick oven. 



SPONGE CAKE 

1 lemon (juice and rind), 1 cup powdered sugar, 

8 eggs, 2 small cups meal. 

Make same as first sponge cake. 



STUFFED AND CANDIED PRUNES 



3 lbs,, prunes, 2 lbs. sugar, 

1 lb. walnuts, 2 glasses water. 

Boil sugar and water, add prunes and boil until all moisture is 
absorbed. When cool, dip prunes in sugar. 

113 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



TEIGLACH 

Eight eggs, slightly beaten, one and one-half glasses fine matzo 
flour, two tablespoonsful potato flour. Knead well and roll into 
long round strips. Cut these srips into little cubes about half- 
an-inch thick. Have a pound of honey and a glass of sugar boil- 
ing in a largs pot over a gas range. Drop the little cubes, lower 
the flame, and frequently take up the pan and shake : Then in- 
crease the flame and stir constantly with a large spoon Until the 
cubes are brown and dry. Shell and split half a pound of hickory 
nuts and drop into pan. Stir once or twice. Have a board ready, 
wet it with cold water,, drop the mixture on it, smooth it out 
into the form of a cake, let stand for about two hours, then cut 
into size desired. 

VIENNA BUNS 

3 eggs, 1 cup raisins, 

1 cup meal, 1 cup almonds (chopped) 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon powder. 

Beat eggs with sugar; add other ingredients and bake in gem 
pans ^ hour. 

VOSDUSHNY PIROG 

Pulp of baked apple, enough to make a pound ; one d©sseri 
spoon sugar, whites of fofiir eggs, beaten stiff. Mix all ingredients 
lightly and quickly ; warm a pan, preferably an old porcelain 
platter, and bake in a moderate oven. ' 



U4 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



The mother in her office holds the key of the soul, and it is 
she who stamps the coin of character and makes the being who 
would be a savage but for her gentle care, a noble man. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 



TIME-TABLE FOR ROASTED MEATS 

Beef, ten to twenty minutes to pound; mutton, ten to twenty 
minutes; lamb, fifteen to twenty minutes to pound; veal twenty 
minutes to pound; turkey (eight to ten pounds), not less than 
three hours; goose (seven to eight pounds), two hours; chicken 
(small), one hour to one and onfe'-half hours; duck (small), one 
and one-half hours. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Two cups equal one pint ; four cups equal one pound ; two 
tablespoonsf ul of butter, sugar or salt equal one ounce ; four 
tablespoonsful of flour equal one ounce. 

2 cups granulated sugar, 2 cups solid butter, 

4 cups flour — 1 lb. 

Teaspoonful borax put in last water in which clothes are rinsed 
will whiten them. 

To remove tea or fruit stains spread the article out flat and 
pour boilirilf water through the stain. 

To remove tar, rub with lard or butter, then rinse with warm 
water and soap. 

Nose-bleeding is stopped by chewing a small wad of paper very 
hard. The motion of the jaws stops the flow of blood. 

Or take a small piece of cotton, force it into one or both nostrils 
as may be needed by means of a pen holder or lead pencil. Do 
it gently as it must be tight to be effective. 

115 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



To remove old tea, coffee, cocoa or chocolate stains, soak in 
cold water first, then use boiling water. 

Cakes will not stick to the tins if placed on a damp cloth when 
removed from oven. 

Rub very little rendered fat over potatoes before baking and 
they will be free from skin when opened. 

When using lemons for any purpose for which the peel will 
not be required, grate the yellow part of the rind on enough gran- 
ulated sugar to absorb the oil. Mix grated peel and sugar 
thoroughly and you will have a splendid lot of flavoring for 
the cost of the sugar. 

Cold water, one tablespoonful of ammonia and soap will take 
out machine grease when other means would not answer on ac- 
count of colors running, etc. 

A dash of cold water against the face,* will awaken a person 
who has fainted. 

Ink spots on floor can be extracted by scouring with sand wet 
in oil of vitriol and water. When removed, rinse with strong 
pearl-ash water. 

To remove paint from window glass : Rub it well with hot, 
sharp vinegar. 

A stale egg rises in water; a fresh one is heavy and sinks to 
the bottom. 

Cooking under the boiling point after the first ten minutes 
causes the toughest meat to become tender. 

To avoid odor in cooking onions or cabbage, add one-fourth 
teaspoonful of soda, leave kettle uncovered and change water 
twice. 

In making frozen puddings, fill mold to overflowing and 
cover with buttered paper, butter side up. At serving-time, 
wipe mold free from ice and salt and place in a vessel of cold 
water for one minute. 

116 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 



A bit of soft, folded papei- inside an overshoe heel will prevent 
same from slipping and becoming useless and leaky through 
running down at the heel. 

Cleaning Cream — For woolen garments of any description, 
dissolve four ounces of white Castile soap, cut up fine in one quart 
of soft water, over the fire. When dissolved, add four quarts 
more, four ounces of ammonia, two ounces of ether, two ounces 
of alcohol and one ounce glycerine. Bottle and this will keep 
forever. 

Cleaning Oil Cloth — A dingy oil-cloth may be brightened by 
washing it with clear water and a little borax dissolved in it. 
Wipe it with a flannel cloth that you have dipped into milk and 
then wring as dry as possible. 

For Slight Burns — A few teaspoons of bicarbonate of soda 
or washing soda in a glass of water make a useful lotion. 
Apply on gauze or handkerchief. Any fat as cold cream, soap 
or butter is useful. 

For Sprains — Perfect rest, part sprained kept in elevated 
position, using cloths wrung out in very hot or very cold water. 

To Clean Brass — To clean anything in brass no matter how 
dainty, take a cup of vinegar and one-half cup of table salt; put 
in a warm dish. • 

To Keep Bar Soap — Cut into pieces and put in a dry place, 
it is more economical to use after, it has become hard, as it does 
not waste so readily. 

When possible, remove all stains while fresh. 

Blood Stains — Wash in cold water until the stain turns 
brown; then rub with Fels naptha soap, and soak in warm 
water. 

Glue Stains — Apply vinegar with a cloth. 

Grease Stains — Place a blotter over stain and iron with a 
very hot iron. 

Grass Stains — Wash with Fels naptha and water. 

117 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



Ink Stains — Soak in sweet or sour milk. 

Rust Stains on White Material — Soak spot with lemon juice, 
then cover with salt and place in the sun for several hours. Rinse 
thoroughly. 

Heat Exhaustion — Remove to airy place. Give stimulants. 
Either strong ammonia, teaspoonful brandy, hot coffee, J4 tea- 
spoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in little water. 

Specks of dust, cinder or the like may be removed gently by 
a tiny bit of clean cotton rolled over the end of a toothpick. 



118 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



ALMOND CREAMS 

Blanch and chop or grate ahTionds and mix them thoroughly 
through French cream, mold into any shape ; or shape French 
cream oblong and press an almond into its side. Then roll in 
granulated sugar or melted chocolate. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 

2 cups light brown sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

1 cup butter, 1 tablespoon water, 

y^ teaspoon baking soda. 

Mix all together and boil twenty minutes ; add soda ; as soon 
as it will crisp in cold water, remove from fire. Pour out on flat 
buttered tins and mark off in squares. 

BUTTER TAFFY 

2 cups light brown sugar, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 
4 tablespoons molasses, 2 tablespoons water, 

54 cup butter. 

Boil all together till brittle in water. Pour into pans and cool. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 cup molasses. Butter, size of egg, 

1 cup white sugar, 1 heaping cup grated 
J4 cup sweet milk, chocolate, 

2 teaspoons sifted flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Boil together first four ingredients ; when thick, add butter, 
boil and test in water. When done add chocolate and let boil a 
few minutes. Flavor and pour into greased pans. When cool 
cut into squares and wrap in wax paper. 

119 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



COCOANUT FUDGE 

4 cups sugar, y^ cake bitter chocolate, 

1 tablespoon butter, ^ cup grated cocoanut, 

1 tablespoon vanilla. 
Boil together first three ingredients. Remove from fire, add 
vanilla, beat until creamy and pour into buttered tins. When 
cool, cut into squares. 

CHOCOLATE KISSES 

2 cups confectioner's . Whites of 2 eggs, 
sugar, 3 oz. chocolate. 

Beat whites ; with sugar and chocolate. Drop on buttered pan 
in large baking tin. Use spoon dipped in cold water. Bake 
fifteen minutes. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM DROPS 

Roll some French cream into cone-shaped forms and lay them 
on waxed paper or a greased platter until hard, which will take 
from three to four hours. Then melt some grated chocolate in 
a kettle set in boiling water. When melted, roll creams in it, 
one at a time, by means of a long hat-pin. Slip on wax paper 
to dry. 

CREOLE NUT CANDY 

3 cups syrup, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
Yz cup white sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 

2 cups shelled almonds. 

Boil first four ingredients until • stringy. Test in ice-water. 
Butter square pan, put in almonds, pour over syrup. Cool before 
taking out. 

FRENCH CREAM 

Take the white of one or more eggs, one-half egg shell of water 
to each white, and mix ; then add as much confectioners' sugar 
as it will require to make it stiff enough to roll into any shape 
desired. Flavor to taste. 

120 



CANDIES 



FUDGE 

2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 

Yz cup milk, y^ cake bitter chocolate, 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cook first four ingredients until mixture forms a soft ball in 
cold water. Remove from fire, add vanilla, stir until creamy and 
it sugars around edge. When cool, pour into buttered tins and 
cut into squares. Chopped walnuts or picans may be added 
when taken from the fire. 



GLACE WALNUTS 

Boil one cup sugar, few grains cream of tartar and J4 cup 
boiling water. Do not stir after boiling has begun. When syrup 
has a faint yellow tinge, remove from fire, dip half nuts sepa- 
rately, drop on to oiled paper. Stand syrup in hot water while 
dipping. 



ORANGE STICKS 

Wipe orange, remove peel in quarters, cut in narrow 
strips. Place peel in sauce pan with % cup cold water, 
boil up once and drain. Repeat five times to extract bitter taste. 
Heat J^ cup sugar yi cup hot water and when dissolved, add 
orange peel. Cook slowly until syrup is nearly evaporated. 
Drain and roll strips in granulated sugar. 

PEANUT CANDY 

Boil two cups of sugar with one-half cup of water and dissolve 
one-half teaspoon ful of cream of tartar in a little cold water and 
add. Boil until it becomes brittle when dropped into cold water. 
Then add a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut and boil a 
few minutes longer. Pour this over nuts which have been spread 
in a buttered tin and set away to cool. 

121 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



SALTED ALMONDS 

Put almonds into boiling water and remove skins. Lay on a 
platter for several hours to dry. Put a piece of butter in a pan 
and stir the almonds over and over to glaze them. Remove from 
the pan, put in another one, set in oven to roast until they begin 
to color slightly. Throw on a clean paper, sprinkle with fine 
salt and let dry. 

STUFFED DATES 

Make a cut in length of dates, remove stone, fill with walnuts 
or pecans and shape into original form. Roll in granulated 
sugar. 

Prunes may be stuffed the same way, soaking prunes in cold 
water for several hours, then steaming until skins are tender. 

CANDIED POPCORN 

lYz cups sugar or maple 1 tablespoon butter, 

syrup, 3 tablespoons water, 

3 qts. popped corn. 

Boil sugar or syrup with butter and water until it spins a long 
thread. Pour this on corn and, if desired, shape into balls. 



122 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



CARROT MARMALADE 

1 lb. carrots, 1 qt. water, 

1 lb. sugar, 1 orange 

1 lemon. 

Boil all together till thick. 

GRAPE BUTTER 

Cook grapes until soft enough to rub through colander; add. 
skins, cook until tender, adding Yz lb. sugar to each lb. fruit. 
Boil until thick, stirring often. 

GREEN TOMATO CONSERVE 

7 lbs. small green toma- 3 sliced lemons, 

toes, Vz of 5c worth cloves and 

6 lbs. sugar, ■ cinnamon mixed, 

Yi, oz. whole ginger. 

Pierce tomatoes with fork. Heat all together slowly, boil until 
tomatoes look clear. Take out tomatoes with skimmer, fill jars. 
Boil syrup till thick, pour over hot tomatoes and seal. Ta.stes 
like fig preserves. 

PEAR AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

10 lbs. pears, 8 lbs. sugar, 

8 lbs. oranges. 

Cut fruit through and chop with orange skins ; dissolve sugar 
and cook until thick as jam. 

123 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 



PLUM CONSERVE 

4 doz. plums, 1 cup sugar, 

1 cup cold water, 4 oranges, 

y^ cup nut meats 2 cups raisins. 

Wash, cut and stone plums and put rind through, chopper. 

Boil all together (except nuts) till thick, add nuts ten minutes 
before removing from fire. 



PEACH CONSERVE 

25 peaches, 3 oranges, 

3^ lbs. sugar. 

Pare fruit, cut, chop rind of oranges and allow all to stand 
over night. Cook until thick. Can. 



RELISH 

2 qts. green tomatoes, 2 tablespoons salt, 

4 qts. cabbage, 1 lb. sugar, 

Yi doz. medium size 3 pts. vinegar, 

onions, % oz., tumeric coloring, 
2 small red peppers, (if desired), 

1 bunch celery, Yz oz. white mustard seed, 
Yi oz. whole allspice. 

Chop all vegetables, mix with rest of ingredients and boil 
twenty minutes. 



RHUBARB AND RASPBERRY 

1 qt. red raspberries, 1 lb. English walnuts, 

1 qt. cubed rhubarb, 2 sliced oranges, 

1 lb. seeded raisins, 2 sliced lemons, 

1 lb. sugar to each lb. fruit. 

Cook all together about Y hour till thick as jelly. Can. 

124 



SPECIAL attention is called 
to the concerns advertis- 
ing in this book, and they 
are specially commended for 
their good service, good 
wares and good treatment. 
They deserve your patronage. 



Mark Rafalsky 
&Co. 

REAL ESTATE 



21 EAST 40th ST. 
NEW YORK CITY 



The Servant Problem Solved 

by the 

"CHAMPCO" SERVICE UNIT 

With Its Numerous Attachments 

It does the following work in the home: 

Washes, wrings and irons clothes. 

Sweeps, scrubs, polishes and waxes floors. 

Washes and dries dishes, crockery and jars. 

Operates ice cream freezer and meat grinder. 

Polishes silver, brass, copper and nickelware. 

Whips cream, beats eggs. 

Mixes mayonnaise, dough and batter. 

Scours pots and pans. 

Sharpens knives and scissors. 

Massages face and body. 

Dries hair and operates fan attachment. 

It performs all these operations with the greatest ease, and a woman 
has nothing mechanical to do in connection with its use. 

One of the attachments now being manufactured is the "Champco" 
Unit Clothes Washer, which consists of an expanding clamping device 
that fits into any of the different kinds of stationary wash tubs already 
installed in the apartment kitchen or laundry room of every home, 
a cylinder of 6 sheet capacity and reversible wringer with mechanism 
which is operated by the "Champco" Service Unit. This washer is 
a decided improvement over the cabinet type of washing machines 
now in general use, as it eliminates the filling and emptying of water 
with hose or bucket, so objectionable to most women. It also saves 
the space required to store the cabinet type of machine as the "Champ- 
co" Unit Washer, when once installed is stored in the tub when not in 
use. Another attachment manufactured by the Company is a portable 
and collapsible ironing machine, also operated by the Service Unit. 
The Ironing Machine is a combination of kitchen table and ironing 
machine, and when not in use the ironing device is folded out of the 
way, leaving the table available for ordinary purposes. 

The Big Idea: One motor to 
run every labor saving device 



For Further Information Address 

Champion Appliance Mfg. Co., Inc. 

44 Main Street Yonkers, N. Y. 

HENRY HERZ, General Manager 



Say 




"It's never too much trouble 


It 




— let us know ^our needs" 


\ mth 






Flowers ! 




CALL UP 

FEITSEN'S 


NEW 


YORK 


DRUG STORE 



FLORAL CO. 



STORES 

YONKERS 
NEW ROCHELLE^ 
WHITE PLAINS 



483 S. BROADWAY 
YONKERS, N, Y. 

PHONE YONKERS 5304 



We ^Deliver 
Anytime — Anypwhere 



FRESH FISH 

of Finest Quality 
Smoked and Canned Sea Foods 



High-Grade Sauces, Condiments 
and Cooked Delicacies 



Moderate Prices 



Dory Sea Food Stores, Inc. 




STORES : 
In Manhaitan : 
6th Ave. all 0th St. 
8th Ave. above II 2th St. 
Broadway at 1 39th St. 
Broadway at 169th St. 
207th St. bet. Sherman 
and Post Aves. 

In the iBronx : 

Fordham Rd. at Walton 

Ave. 
Fordham Rd. at Ehn PI. 
Bunuide Ave. at Walton 

Ave. 



In Yonken : 3 1 North Broadway 



Stephen T. Bell 



Arthur C. Clapp 



BELL & CLAPP 

lb -17 South Broadway 
YONKERS, N.Y. 



UNDERTAKERS 
AND LIVERY 



CARRIAGES FOR ALL 

OCCASIONS — DAY 

AND NIGHT 



Telephone Yonkers 2725 



Telephone 4725 


Phone 1820 


M. BORSTEIN 




The Broadway Hardware Store 


M. FINKFI , STEIN & SON 


HARDWARE 




HOUSE FURNISHINGS 


90 RIVERDALE AVENUE 


1 Electric Toys a Specialty 


YONKERS, N. Y. 


Prompt Deliveries 




484 SOUTH BROADWAY 




One Store North of Broadway Theatre 




YONKERS. N. Y. 




Telephone 4474 


Phone 183 7 




THE FASHION SHOP 


; BROADWAY MARKET 




G. H. LUITHLE, Prop. 


OUTER APPAREL FOR 
WOMEN AND MISSES 


359 SO. BROADWAY 




YONKERS, N. Y. 


20 MAIN STREET 




YONKERS, N. Y. 




FACTORY : 




30-38 E. 33rd Street 


1 


NEW YORK, N. Y. 





Phones 5292-5293 


R . N A YOR 


BROADWAY FISH MARKET 


Dry Goods 


SALVATORE PISACANO, Prop. 
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 


64 RIVERDALE AVENUE 


SEA FOOD 


YONKERS, N. Y. 


470 S. BROADWAY, YONKERS, N. Y. 




Branch: 381 Eighth Ave., New York 






Clubs, Hotels and Restaurants Supplied j 


Telephone 5250 






L. D. CALLAHAN 


RIVERDALE 


JEWELRY 


LIVE POULTRY MARKET 


Watchmaker Expert Repairing 


L. SPITALNIK. Prop. 




31 RIVERDALE AVENUE 
YONKERS, N. Y. 


24 LAWRENCE STREET 
YONKERS, N. Y. 


Telephone 2755 


Telephone 548 


WASHINGTON BUTTER AND 


LAWRENCE F. SHESLER 


EGG STORE 


PLUMBING AND 


Wholesale and Retail 


HEATING SERVICE 


MAX RUTHEN, Prop. 


CONTRACTING 


130 NEPPERHAN AVENUE 


321 Riverdale Avenue 


YONKERS, N. Y. 


YONKERS, N. Y. 


Telephone 4085 


Teleephone 5350 


1 M. C. RYAN 


KLIPSTEIN & KEPPLER 


COATS, SUITS WAISTS, 


Importers and Manufacturers of 


and the Famous 


Curtains and Madeira Goods 


GOSSARD CORSET 






8 MAIN STREET 
YONKERS, N. Y. 


349 So. BROADWAY, 
YONKERS, N. Y. 



Ch ^.«^.y: EEEE 



12 North Broadway 
484 South Broadway 



Sole Agency 




How Nature Planned 
The Human Foot 

We are born without shoes; we are expected 
by Nature to walk without shoes. The foot 
,is planned to be supported at three points, the 
heel, the instep and the ball (front of foot.) 
The use of a heel on a shoe that has a bend- 
ing shank is a violation of Nature's plan, be- 
cause it leaves one point without support — and 
when this point sags, it weakens the whole 
foot, and causes discomfort, and often under- 
mines the entire bodily health. 
Arch Preserver Shoes support the entire foot — 
just as Nature intended it to be supported 
when we walk barefooted. 

Sold Nowhere flse in Yonkers 



Telephone. 2523 



SPECIALTY CORSET 
AND SWEATER SHOP 

B. LIPSCHITZ 
351 So. Broadway Yonkers 




A. SKLAR 

HOUSE PAINTING 
AND DECORATING 

PAINTS, WALLPAPER 
PAINTERS SUPPLIES 



76 RIVERDALE AVENUE 
YONKERS. N. Y. 



LOUIS PADOW 

TAILOR AND HABERDASHER 

484 SOUTH BROADWAY 

YONKERS, N. Y. 




CHARLES VITANZA 

Custom Shoemaker 

Hand-made shoes for deformed feet. 
Special attention given on all repair 

work. 



Telephone 3 I 72 

SAM NEIMARK 

TAILOR 

Cleaning, Dyeing, Altering, Pressing and 

Repairing on Ladies* and Gentlemen's 

Garments 

Furs Remodeled and Altered, Gloves Cleaned 



Telephone 6222 



G. CASASSA 

Fancy Groceries, Fruits 
and Vegetables 

395 RIVERDALE AVENUE 
YONKERS, N. Y. 



Tel. Yonkers 4717 Tel. Kingsbridge 



LUDLOW TAXI 
SERVICE 

ALL KINDS OF 

CARS FOR HIRE AT 

LOWEST PRICES 

DAY AND NIGHT SERVICE 
Main Office 

276 HAWTHORNE AVENUE 
YONKERS, N. Y. 

Cars Stationed at 

Ludlow Station and 242nd St. 

Subway Station 

GARAGE: 76 PIER ST. 



Telephone 3447 

THE 
DARLING GIFT SHOP 



will celebrate its first 
anniversary during the 
week of July 9th, by 
giving a discount of 
20 per cent on all goods 



311 SOUTH BROADWAY 
YONKERS, N. Y. 



Phone 5257 



FRANKLIN MARKET 

JOSEPH W. BIERWIRTH, Prop. 

HIGH GRADE 
CITY DRESSED BEEF 



POULTRY AND GAME 
IN SEASON 

40 1 RIVERDALE AVENUE 

Cor. Franklin Avenue 
YONKERS, N. Y. 



"Cleanliness, Purity and Accuracy" 

is our slogan of success and has developed for us the respect of the 
Medical Profession and a prescription trade which we are well proud of. 

Cleanliness of utensils, purity of ingredients, and accuracy in com- 
pounding may be well applied to the art of cooking and consistent 
effort following the above slogan will bring success to you in the 
kitchen as it has for us in our prescription department. 

Prescriptions Compounded Only by Licensed Pharmacists 
Our Prices of Patent Medicines and Toilet Articles are the Lowest in the City 

LIBERTY PHARMACY 



JOS. JACOBSON, Prop. 

16-18 RIVERDALE AVENUE 



Phones 398. 6517, 6473 



Opposite Y. M. C. A. 



Twenty-t^vo Years on the Same Corner 
Not Connected With Any Other Store in the City 
Free Delivery to all Parts o( the City 



Telephone 3637 



JOSEPH GUARDING 

FRESH FISH 

LOBSTERS 

SOFT AND HARD SHELL 

CRABS. 

Clams, Oysters, 
Frog Legs in Season 



3058 HEATH AVENUE 
KlNGSBRIDGE, N. Y. 



Telephone 4288 



THE 
BROADWAY SHOP 

HATS 

FOR TOWN 
AND COUNTRY WEAR 

510 SOUTH BROADWAY 
YONKERS, N. Y. 



The 

Well - Informed Housewife 

Takes Ice the Year 'Round 



It is false economy to rely on 
weather to keep food. 

Food kept with ice is crisper, 
fresher- flavored and more 
nutritious. 

A variation of 20° is often 

enough to start decay in food, 

to incubate millions of germs. 

I^Cosis j^^ ^ temperature of 60° 

a Few Cents ^^^^ spoils before the bottle 
a Day is emptied. 



YONKERS CITY ICE COMPANY 

Pure Perfect Service 

Established 1 875 Phone, Yonken 4141 



.i:^; 



.'-% 



