3 ■■'> ■.-■{:■■ 



TX 715 
.M66 
1922 
Copy 1 





HORD*/oOD 



SSWl 



COOK BOOK! 




Compiled by 

The Ladies' Aid Society of the Luther Memorial Chapel 
Shorewood 

Copyright 1922, by Mrs. A. R. Munkwitz 




The Car of the Golden Chassis 



John G. Wollaeger Co. 



DISTRIBUTORS 



Grand Ave. at 28th St. Telephone Wert 6300 



\°[ If You Have No CKurcK Home 



Come to 



8Iu%r ifemnral fflJjaprl 

MARYLAND AVE. NEAR SHOREWOOD AVE. 



SHOREWOOD 



German Service 
8:45 A. M. 



EnglisK Service 
11:00 A. M. 



Sunday ScKool 
9:45 A. M. 



Visitors Always Welcome 



THE CHURCH NEEDS YOU 
YOU NEED THE CHURCH 



WE may live without poetry, music and art ; 
We may live without conscience, and 
live without heart; 

We may live without friends ; we may live 
without books, 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books — what is knowl- 
edge but grieving? 

He may live without hope — what is hope but 
deceiving? 

He may live without love — what is passion 
but pining? 

But where is the man that can live without 
dining? 




MAG!) 23 3 



NOV 18 '22 



Foreword 

THE first edition of this book, for- 
merly known as The East Mil- 
waukee Cook Book, was sold in a 
comparatively short time. Owing to the 
popularity of the book and the contin- 
ued demand for the same, the Ladies' 
Aid Society of Luther Memorial Chapel 
has felt encouraged to issue a second 
and enlarged edition, known as The 
Shorewood Cook Book. It contains 
a collection of choice and tried recipes 
contributed by experienced housekeep- 
ers, and we bespeak for it the same kind 
&£ reception that was accorded its prede- 
cessor. Copies may be obtained from 
any member of the Ladies' Aid Society 
of Luther Memorial Chapel. The pro- 
ceeds derived from the sale of this book 
will be devoted to the new church to be 
erected in the near future. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Don't 

BAKE 



Bread 



Buy It! 



80,000 M: 

eat Atlas Bread @v«mj danj 




9 



JtdCi 




ATLAS 

KLEENMAID 

BREADS 



y% Ga>ldl(Bn Crust^/l €r<Bsmnt/ Ttesfie" 

ASK MOTHER-SHE KNOWS ! 





THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 


5 












RECIPES 











SOUPS AND DUMPLINGS. 

Bean Soup. 

1 qt. beans 2 lbs. fresh beef 

^4 lb. salt pork 2 onions 

Soak the beans over night and boil until soft in four or 
more quarts of water. Cut salt pork and onions fine. Boil 
two hours, strain and boil for five minutes longer. 

Buttermilk Soup. 

1 qt. buttermilk 2 eggs 

2 T. flour Nutmeg 
Pinch of salt 1 T. sugar 
1 T. sugar 

Add the flour (moistened with a little cold water) and 
the salt to the buttermilk. Put on slow fire, bring to a boil, 
stirring constantly. Take from fire, add the sugar, yolks of 
the eggs, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of eggs, 
add the sugar. Put on top of soup. Serve hot with toast. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

1 pt. tomato 4 T. butter 

1 qt. hot milk 1 slice onion 

2 t. salt 4 T. flour 

Heat milk and onion, then remove onion. Melt butter, 
add flour and, when well mixed, add milk gradually. Then 
cook until slightly thickened. Add strained tomato, season 
and serve. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



The way to a man's heart 

IS NOT thru his stomach. 
Adornment plays a greater 
part, and there is where we 
come in. 

For the^fcleverest styles 
and lowest^ prices in 



FURS 

GOWNS 

WRAPS 

BLOUSES 

MILLINERY 



Go to 



GRAND AT 
SECOND ST. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Cream of Celery Soup. 

1 T. flour j/ 4 t. salt 

2 T. butter Spk pepper 
1 c. milk 

Wash celery, cut into small pieces, and boil it until it is 
soft in just enough boiling water to cover it. Press it through 
a strainer, saving and using the water in which celery was 
cooked. Scald the milk. Mix the flour with a little cold 
milk and smoothen out all lumps. Add the flour mixture 
to the hot milk, stirring constantly. Boil it about five minutes. 
Add the salt, pepper, and butter. Then add the celery and 
water. 

Mixed Vegetable Soup. 

1 qt. stock Yz c. chopped cabbage 

1 at. boiling water 1 c. strained tomatoes 

1 c. chopped onions 1 t. sugar 

1 c. chopped carrots 1 t. salt 

1 c. chopped celery 1 ssp. pepper 

y 2 c. chopped turnip 1 T. chopped parsley 

y 2 c. chopped parsnip 

Use all or as many varieties of vegetables as you wish. If 
you have only a few, add macaroni, rice or barley, having one- 
half the amount of vegetables that you have of liquid. Chop 
all the vegetables fine. Cabbage, cauliflower, parsnip, pota- 
toes or onions should be parboiled five minutes and drained 
carefully. Fry the onions and carrots, then put all with the 
water and stock and simmer until tender. Add seasoning and 
serve without straining. Always add sugar to all mixed 
vegetable soups. 

Oyster Soup. 

1 qt. milk Pepper and salt 

1 qt. water Butter 

1 qt. oysters 

Let the milk and water come to a boil. Season with pep- 
per and salt to taste. Look over oysters carefully and add to 
the mixture. Let them boil up once. Then add a little rolled 
cracker and butter, the size of an egg. Serve at once. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Atwater Pharmacy" 



Cor. Maryland and Atwater Road 
(In the Heart of Shorewood) 



Our pure Italian Olive Oil is excellent for cooking 



WE CARRY LUICK'S ICE CREAM 



We Deliver Phone Edgewood 232 



Let N6k6l Solve Your 

J-iCl Automatic Heater JU1VC * OUI 

Coal Problems 

WHY worry about coal when a Nokol will abolish fuel 
troubles, heat your home evenly and take almost no care. 
Nokol burns oil; it is clean, odorless, efficient, safe. Is ap- 
proved by the National Board of Underwriters. And it can 
be quickly installed in any coal-burning furnace without in- 
convenience or drop in temperature. 

NOKOL Company of Wisconsin 

Plankinton Arcade Milwaukee 

Over 8,500 in use 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Puree of Carrots. 
3 large carrots 2 oz. suet 

2 qts. cold water 2 T. cornstarch 

Good sized onion l / 2 pt. milk or stock 

Scrape and cut the carrots into slices. Cover with the 
cold water and simmer gently three-fourths of an hour. Put 
the suet or butter into a frying pan. When hot, add a good 
sized onion, sliced. Cook until a light brown, and then add 
the carrots. Press the whole through a fine sieve. Return 
to the fire and stir in the cornstarch, moistened in a little cold 
water. Add salt, pepper and the milk or stock. This is a 
good soup, and very inexpensive. 

Rice Soup. 

1 small c. rice 2 stalks celery 

1 qt. milk 1 qt. stock 

Boil the rice in the milk until it will pass very easily 
through a sieve. Grate the nicely bleached part of the celery 
and add to the rice. Add to this one quart of stock. Let this 
Jjoil until the celery is done. Season with a dash of cayenne 
pepper or a little curry powder, and plenty of salt. 

Marrow Balls. 

Take butter the size of an Qgg and the same amount of 
marrow (or all marrow, if preferred). Stir to a cream and 
add two well beaten eggs and season with salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, a few drops of onion juice, and a little chopped parsley. 
Mix well and add some cracker crumbs. Roll into little balls 
and drop into boiling soup for about twenty minutes. 

Potato Dumplings. 

6 large potatoes 1 scant c. flour 

2 eggs 2 T. salt 

y 2 c. farina A pinch grated nutmeg 

Boil the potatoes with their jackets the day before. Next 
day, grate them and add two well beaten eggs, farina, flour, 
salt and the grated nutmeg. Shape into small balls about the 
size of an egg and boil in salted water twenty minutes. Use 
one teaspoon salt to one quart of water. Drain and serve 
hot. They are good with a cup of toasted cubes of bread 
added to the potatoes. If onions are desired, serve with finely 
chopped onions, delicately browned in butter. 



10 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



FOX'S 



HINTS FOR 
THE HOUSEWIFE 



Fresh fruits at all seasons. 
Rare imported condiments. 
The choicest Teas and Coffees. 
Let us decorate your dinner. 
We know how. 



FOX'S COFFEES AND 
TEAS have had a great 
reputation for over thirty- 
five years. 



Watch FOX'S Windows. 





% of Your Life is Spent in 
Your Shoes — 



See that they" 
are Correctly, 
Comfortably 
Fitted by the 
Aid of Our 





Foot X-Ray Machines 



Cantilever Shoes 

A Flexible Shoe for 
Your Flexible Feet 




THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 11 

Rice Dumplings. 
2 c. boiled rice 1 T. salt 

1 v. riced potatoes \ l / 2 c. flour 

2 eggs 

Work all well together, then drop in boiling water. Let 
boil until they are light. 

Schwaben Spaetzle. 
1 egg Pinch of salt 

3 T. milk J / 2 c. sifted flour 

Beat the egg with the milk and add the salt and stir into 
sifted flour. Pour this through a small funnel into soup or 
salted water. Serve with brown butter and a few bread 
crumbs in it and use for a garnish for meat. 

Tomato Soup With Meat Dumplings. 
To 1 can of Campbell's Tomato Soup add 2 to 3 qts. of 
hot water, some finely chopped onions, parsely, celery, and if 
liked sliced carrots. Salt to taste. Let boil one-half hour. 
Meanwhile prepare dumplings. To 1-1^4 lbs. chopped beef 
add 1 beaten egg, 1 finely chopped onion, 1 t. chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper; add enough flour mixed with y 2 t. baking 
powder to hold mixture together. Drop into boiling soup and 
boil one-half hour. Serve immediately. 

Hungarian Stew. 
Put a piece of butter, half the size of an egg, in a kettle and 
add a sliced onion; let it brown, then put in about 2 pounds 
of good round steak cut into pieces half an inch square, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne, dredge well with 
flour. Let it brown together, then add boiling water a little 
at a time until meat is tender. The gravy must be a rich 
brown. Serve with baking powder dumplings. 

Baking Powder Dumplings. 
3 cups flour 2 t. baking powder 

3 eggs J / 2 t. salt 

1 cup milk 

Mix flour, salt and baking powder, and then beat in the 
eggs and milk to smooth paste. Put in boiling water or soups 
and boil about 15 minutes. Serve immediately. These dump- 
lings are very light and if let stand any length of time will 
get soggy. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

EDITH M. SHAW 
ART NOVELTIES 

Stamping and Embroidery 
201 Iron Block Milwaukee 



SEMLER-LEIDIGER CO. 

FLORISTS 
BROADWAY 450 419 MILWAUKEE ST. 



THE PLUCKHAN SHOPS 

407-409 Milwaukee St. 
CORSETS, BLOUSES, SWEATERS, LINGERIE 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 13 

FISH, OYSTERS AND SHRIMPS. 

Codfish Balls. 
4 e. mashed potatoes 2 well beaten eggs 

3 c. boiled codfish Butter 

Mince codfish fine and add butter. Mix well and add the 
well beaten eggs, beating all together. Drop by spoonfuls 
into hot lard and fry like doughnuts. 

Clam Chowder. 
50 clams (soft or long clams 

best) 6 Boston crackers 

7 or 8 potatoes y 2 lb. fat salt pork 

1 can tomatoes Salt 

2 medium-sized onions Cavenne pepper 

1 T. flour 2 t. butter 
Minced parsley to taste 2 qts. cold water 

Cut pork into bits and fry it in soup kettle, add sliced 
onions and cook also, then put in tomatoes, potatoes, sliced 
and parboiled and cook two hours over a moderate burner. 
Chop clams, split crackers in a cup of milk. At the end of 
two hours, put clams and crackers into pot, season and boil 
one-half hour. Stir in the creamed butter and flour and bring 
to a fast boil before turning out. 

Deviled Sardines. 

Cut some neat fingers of bread and fry them a golden 
brown. Drain them well and sprinkle rather thickly with 
grated cheese and cayenne pepper. Heat the sardines by 
putting them into the oven, well covered with oil and dusted 
with black and cayenne pepper, and a little salt. When thor- 
oughly hot, place a sardine on each finger of bread. Squeeze 
a little lemon juice on each and serve hot. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

2 c. rolled crackers 1 qt. oysters 

1 c. melted butter Pepper and salt 

1 c. boiling water 1 c. milk 

Pour the melted butter over the crackers. Alternate a 
layer of oysters and a layer of crackers until all is used. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Moisten with milk and boiling 
water. 



14 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Herman F. Laabs 

Fine Furs 



4 1 7 Twelfth Street 
Milwaukee, Wis. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 15 



Fish Chowder. 

Cut three or four slices of salt pork into strips and fry 
them in an iron kettle ; skim out the pork, leaving the fat. 
Put into the kettle alternate layers of fresh cod, slices of potato 
and onions, fried pork, and Boston hand crackers, split. 
Season the layers with salt and pepper. Cover the whole 
with boiling water, or water and milk. Boil slowly about 
one hour. 

Fried Oysters. 

Choose large oysters, drain them on a cloth and dip into 
beaten eggs. Roll in fine cracker dust and fry until brown 
in hot butter. Season with salt and pepper. Some prefer 
part lard for frying. Serve very hot. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

y 2 pt. raw oysters 3 T. cracker crumbs 

Yz pt. cooked veal 2 egg yolks 

1 heaping T. butter 

Chop the oysters and veal very fine. Soak the crackers 
in the oyster liquid and mix all together in shape. Dip into 
beaten egg. Roll in cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Put your oysters into a kettle. If they have not sufficient 
liquid, add some water, and boil them until they ■ are done. 
Take out the oysters and throw them into cold water. Strain 
the liquid and put back into the kettle. Add vinegar and salt 
to taste. Sprinkle the oysters with allspice, cloves, mace 
and whole pepper. Pour the liquid over them and cover until 
cold. 

Salmon Sandwich. 

1 can salmon Vinegar 

1 T. horse-radish Parsley, cut fine 

Mustard, prepared Salt 

To one can salmon add the other ingredients. Mix thor- 
oughly. Spread wheat bread with butter and lettuce leaf 
and apply above mixture. 



16 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



West Side Clothing Co, 

1601-03 Vliet St. 
Men's, Boys' and Children's 



Clothing and 

Furnishings 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 17 

Salmon Loaf — No. 1. 

1 can salmon 1 c. bread crumbs 

1 T. chopped parsley 3 eggs 

3 T. melted butter ' y 2 t. salt 

Grease the mold and steam one hour. Make a cream 
sauce and add all salmon juice. Flavor with catsup and lemon 
juice. Very good served with potato chips. 

Salmon Loaf — No. 2. 

1 can salmon 4 T. melted butter 

3 eggs, beaten light y 2 c. cracker or bread crumbs 

Mix the salmon, eggs, butter, and cracker or bread crumbs: 
to a smooth paste. Steam one hour and serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : 

Sauce. 

1 small T. flour 1 T. butter 

y 2 c. sweet milk 2 T. catsup 

Pepper and salt to taste 1 ^gg (well beaten) 

Thicken milk with the flour and add the butter, catsup, 
pepper, and salt. Just before taking up, add the well beaten 
tgg, boil a minute, and pour over loaf. 

Baked Fish (Very Good). 

Sprinkle the fish with salt and fill with stuffing, sew and 
skewer the edges together. Cut gashes on each side across 
the fish, and put strips of salt pork or bacon into them. Or 
put pork below and on top of fish. Grease the baking sheet 
and place the fish on it, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, put: 
the sheet into a baking pan with pieces of pork fat under the 
fish. Baste every 10 minutes. Bake a 1 lb. fish one-half hour. 
May be served with a sauce or with filled baked tomatoes. 

Stuffing for Baked Fish. 

1 c. fine bread or cracker 2 t. chopped pickles 

crumbs 1 /a t. pepper 

1 t. chopped onion or juice 1 r. lemon juice 

y 2 t. salt Ya cup melted butter 
]/ 2 t. chopped parsley 

Milk or water to moisten. Mix the ingredients thorough- 
ly, Use enough liquid to make the stuffing stick together. 



18 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



H. W. BUEMMING. A. I. A. ALEXANDER C. GUTH 



BUEMMING ANDIGUTH 

ARCHITECTS 

521 JACKSON ST. 

MILWAUKEE 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 19' 

Salmon Timbales. 

I3-2 lb. salmon, cooked 3 t. salt 

1 pt. cream y 2 t. pepper 

1 c. stale bread Nutmeg or mace 
Y\ c. butter 4 eggs 

y 2 c. mushrooms 

For a quart mould or a dozen small moulds use one and 
one-half pounds of salmon. Cook salmon and let cool. Free 
from bones and skin. Canned salmon may also be used. Put 
bread and cream together and cook until smooth. Chop, pound 
and sift the salmon and add the seasoning. Mix all ingredi- 
ents, except the eggs, and let cool. Then add the beaten 
eggs. Pour the mixture into small moulds or cups and set 
them into a pan containing hot water and bake thirty minutes. 
Turn them out on a hot platter, put a sprig of parsley in the 
center of each and pour about them cream or Bechamel sauce* 

Shrimps in Tomato Cases. 

l^j c. shrimp 1 c. soft bread crumbs 

6 medium sized tomatoes % c. cream 

2 T. butter Salt 

2 slices onion Paprika 

Break shrimp into small pieces. Prepare tomatoes, by 
cutting in halves, removing the pulp, and inverting on a sieve 
to drain. Melt butter in a sauce pan, add onion slices and 
brown them slightly, then remove and add tomato pulp. Cook 
this until reduced to one-half, and add the bread crumbs.. 
When thoroughly mixed remove from fire and add cream,, 
the shrimps and a good seasoning of salt and paprika. Fill 
the tomatoes, cover with buttered crumbs and bake quickly 
until browned. Serve either on lettuce or rounds of bread 
sauted in butter. 

Baked Fish with Tomato Sauce. 

Place the fish in the dripping pan with salt, pepper, small 
lumps of butter, and three tablespoons of tomato catsup (or 
strained canned tomatoes) poured over the top. Just before 
baking, add a little boiling water, baste frequently while bak- 
ing. A four pound fish must bake one hour. When tender 
and nicely browned, remove carefully to a warm platter and 
make the following sauce : 



20 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



North Ave. Fuel Co. 



Coa I 
Coke 
Wood 

3000 North Avenue 

Phone Kilbourne 95 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 21 



Tomato Sauce. 

Add to the boiling water in the dripping pan enough 
water to make the required quantity of sauce. With a four 
pound fish you will have almost enough to fill an ordinary 
sized gravy boat. Thicken with flour stirred smooth with 
water to thin gravy, and add two tablespoons of strained 
canned tomatoes, two tablespoons tomato catsup, one of 
Worcestershire sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and salt and 
pepper to taste. The canned tomatoes may be omitted by 
adding more catsup. Cook several minutes, stirring constant- 
ly and serve very hot. 

Turbot. 

White fish Bunch of parsley 

1 qt. milk Little nutmeg 

y A lb. flour 1 t. salt 

5 small onions *4 c - butter 

34 t. white pepper 2 ^gg yolks 
Sprig of thyme 

Steam a white fish, five pounds or less. Pick out all bones 
and season lightly with pepper and salt. Mix the milk, flour, 
finely chopped onions, thyme, parsley, nutmeg, salt and white 
pepper and put over a quick fire until it becomes a thick 
paste. Take from fire and stir in butter and yolks of eggs 
and mix well together. Pass through a sieve. Put some of 
the strained sauce into a baking dish, then a layer of fish 
and another of sauce, and so on, until fish and sauce are used 
up. Pour sauce on top and sprinkle lightly with bread crumbs 
and grated cheese. Bake one-half hour. 

Halibut Au Gratin. 

Cut 2 lbs. of halibut into fillets, cover with J / 2 c. buttered 
bread crumbs and 1 c. milk. Bake 30 minutes. 

Sauce. 

Melt 2 T. butter and 2 T. flour, J / 2 t. salt, a dash of paprika. 
Stir until smooth, add 2 c. milk and cook 5 minutes. Add 1 c. 
of grated cheese and when melted add 1 tgg slightly beaten 
and Yz t. Worcestershire sauce. 



22 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Compliments 

Nash Sales Co. 

Nash - LaFayette Cars 


Broadway at Oneida 

^Milwaukee 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 23 

MEATS. 

Baked Ham with Sherry Wine. 

Spread a slice of raw, smoked ham one-half inch thick, 
on both sides with dry mustard, cover with one-fourth cup 
brown sugar. Put into baking dish, add Sherry wine one- 
half inch deep. Bake about one hour and baste from time to 
time with a little water. 

Baked Hash. 

Cut up small, any kind of cold, fresh meat. Add to it, 
about one-third the quantity of bread crumbs, with a lump 
of butter, cut up, a little chopped onion, pepper and salt. 
Mix well and put in a baking dish. Cover with milk and let 
it soak until the bread is perfectly soft. Stir well together 
and bake. If you have gravy on hand, it will answer as well 
as butter, in preparing this appetizing breakfast dish. 

Beef Tongue a La Jardiniere. 

Boil a fresh beef's tongue one hour. Skin and lay in 
your roaster, upon a layer of vegetables, cut in dices — carrots, 
turnips, celery, potatoes, peas, beans, and if you can get them, 
button onions and small round tomatoes. Pour over the above 
some of the water in which the tongue was boiled ; cover and 
cook slowly two hours, if tongue is large. Remove the tongue, 
keeping it closely covered and hot, while you take out the 
vegetables with a skimmer. Thicken the gravy with browned 
flour. Place tongue on dish, arrange the vegetables about it, 
and pour some of the gravy over all, serving the rest in a 
sauce-boat. 

Casserole Roast. 

3 or 4 lb. rump of beef 1 c. onions 

1 slice salt pork 1 c. celery 

1 c. carrots A few pepper corns 

1 c. turnips 2 c. water or stock 

Fry out the pork, brown the meat on both sides in the fat. 
Cut the vegetables in small pieces. Place meat into casserole 
with the vegetables around it, pour on the water, cover and 
cook three hours. 



24 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

We Sell You More 
Than "Just Lumber" 

For every dollar spent 
you get the benefit of 

SCHROEDER 

Complete Lumber Service 



388 



Factory-built Garages 

Special Millwork 

Home Builders' Free Plan Service 



88 



Phone Lincoln 5720 



8 8 



John Schroeder Lumber (p. 

Z# Dozen Boards or a Dozen &7r/oac/s" 
Foot of Walnut St. -•- MILWAUKEE, WIS. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Caviar Bouchees. 

While there is no caviar that is not salted, the best 
varieties contain much less than the cheaper. Best of all 
varieties is the Malossel, which means in Russian, little salt. 
As it is so delicate, it is put up in tin boxes and kept in cold 
storage. In Russia, it is served with chopped onions or 
parsley and a bit of lemon as an appetizer. Here there are 
variations in its service, one of the nicest ways being the 
following: Spread fried circles or fingers of bread with a thin 
layer of caviar. In the center place a large olive with the stone 
removed and the cavity filled with minced red peppers. Hold 
olive in place with a few drops of mayonnaise dressing and 
put tiny dots of same about border. 

Chicken a La Mode de Bresse. 

2 small chickens, cut in pieces 

2 T. butter 1 pt. thick cream 
1 onion 2 egg yolks 

Salt 1 small can mushrooms 

Pepper Parsley 

1 c. bouillon 

Put the chickens and butter into a saucepan and cook 
until browned. Add the bouillon, onion and parsley, and 
season well. Let cook for one hour. A quarter of an hour 
before serving, take out the parsley and onion and add the 
mushrooms. After the mushrooms have cooked for ten min- 
utes, put in the cream and allow it to heat without boiling. 
Thicken with the yolks of eggs beaten up, stirring them in 
slowly. Serve on toast. If desired, add a little lemon juice 
or slice of a lemon. This is enough for eight persons. 

Creamed Chicken. 

3 £y 2 -\b. chickens 1 can mushrooms 

2 sweet breads 3 qt. cream or milk 
12 T. butter 15 T. flour 

Boil chickens and sweet bread. When cold, cut up as for 
salad. Melt butter and flour together and pour hot cream 
over this. Stir until it thickens. Flavor with a little grated 
onion and a very little nutmeg. Season highly with black 
and red pepper and salt. Put a layer of prepared chicken in 
a baking dish, then a layer of dressing and so on, until the 
dish is filled. Then cover with bread crumbs and a few pieces 
of butter. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. This will serve 
twenty-five people. 



26 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Be Sure to Specify a 

Heil Quality- Tank 

for your new garage or 
heating system. 

Heil Tanks are guaran- 
teed in every particular. 

The steel is 3-16 inches 
thick, painted with a rust 
resisting asphaltum paint. 

The first cost is your 
only cost. 

Don't experiment — buy 
quality. 



Twenty- Sixth and Montana Avenues 



Welded Steel Tanks of all Kinds 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 27 

Chili Con Carne. 

1 lb. chopped beef 1 tan tomatoes 

2 good sized onions 1 can kidney beans 
Pepper Celery 

1 t. Chili powder Salt 

Brown the onions in butter. Add the beef and a little 
water. Then add the tomatoes, kidney beans, celery, salt, 
pepper, and chili powder. 

Chili Con Carne. 
1 lb. beef, mostly lean 1 pt. red kidney beans 

1 c. sifted pulp of sweet red 1 clove 
peppers Garlic 

Cut the beef into one-half inch cubes and broil until 
brown on all sides. Add the pulp of sweet peppers, which 
have been boiled until soft, in water enough to float them. 
Remove skin and seeds before sifting. Add the clove, the 
beans and the garlic, crushed with a fork. The best results 
are obtained by using dried beans, which have been soaked in 
cold water for a day or more and allowed to simmer in clear 
water until tender. The canned beans may be used if more 
convenient. Cover closely and simmer until meat begins to 
fall apart. Serve with corn bread, baked crisp in very thin 
sheets. 

Chicken Saute a La Bordelaise. 

2 small chickens 3 onions 

16 small potatoes Y\ lb. butter 

6 medium-sized artichokes 1 pt. bouillon 

6 carrots 1 small piece garlic 

Pepper Parsley Salt 

Cut chickens into pieces and brown in two-thirds of the 
butter. Rub the sides of the pot, or casserole, with the garlic. 
Pare the potatoes and cook them slowly in the rest of the 
butter. Prepare the artichokes by letting them cook twenty 
minutes in boiling water with a little salt. Drain off the 
water, add a large piece of butter and let them simmer until 
served. Boil carrots until soft. Cut the onions into slices, 
soak in a little milk, roll in flour, and fry so that each piece 
will be separate. Wash the parsley and dry, then dip into 
boiling lard until crisp. Place the pieces of chicken on a 
platter garnished with the vegetables and serve gravy 
separately. 



28 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



WEST SIDE 
BANK 



THIRD AND 
CHESTNUT STS. 

MILWAUKEE 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 29 

Chicken Pie. 

Cook the chicken until quite tender. Add plenty of butter, 
salt and pepper. Make a good, rich crust of baking powder 
biscuit dough, and line the sides of a pudding dish with this 
crust. Place the chicken into this with at least one quart of 
liquid in which it was boiled. Cover with crust and bake. 
When done, cut a round hole in the center of crust and 
remove the piece. Pour in balance of gravy, which is thick- 
ened with a little flour dissolved in a little cold water, and 
return crust. It is then ready for the table. 



Chop Suey — No. 1. 

2 large onions I J/* lb. chopped meat 

1 heaping T. drippings 1 qt. tomato sauce 

Fry the onions in the drippings. Add the chopped meat 
(veal, pork and beef). Simmer ten minutes. Parboil in salt 
water noodles made of two eggs. Add these to the meat. 
Pour over this the tomato sauce. Season to taste. Allow to 
simmer one-half hour. Then place in baking dish and bake 
one-half hour. 

Chop Suey— No. 2. 

1 lb. round steak Onions 

1 c. cooked rice Pepper 

1 c. cooked macaroni Salt 

2 c. strained tomatoes 

Grind the steak in a meat grinder and brown in frying 
pan. Add the tomato sauce, then rice and macaroni. The 
amount of onions used depends on one's tastes. Season and 
serve hot. 

Goulash. 

Use one pound chopped beef. Brown six small onions 
in butter. Add a bunch of English celery and boil one can 
tomatoes with this mixture. Make noodles out of one egg, 
boil in salt water and drain. Add this to first mixture with 
salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Then bake for one-half 
hour. Baked or escalloped potatoes go very nicely with this. 



30 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 




Monarch Brand 

FANCY 
CREAMERY BUTTER 



(^Always Good 



LAABS BROTHERS COMPANY 

DISTRIBUTORS 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 31 

Filled Cabbage. 

1 head cabbage y 2 lb. pork, chopped 

1 lb. round steak, chopped Seasoning for meat 

Boil cabbage in salt water for one-half hour. When cool, 
put in double boiler one layer boiled cabbage and one layer 
chopped meat until boiler is filled, having last layer of cab- 
bage. Boil about three hours. When ready to serve put on 
platter, pour over following sauce and garnish with parsley : 

Sauce. 

Butter, size of walnut 1 c. water that cabbage was 

1 T. flour boiled in 

1 c. clear water 

Brown the butter, add the flour and the water. Boil until 
it thickens. When serving, cut same as cake. 

Ham and Noodles. 

Chop ham fine. Make layers in dish alternating with 
boiled noodles. Cover with the following: 1 pt. milk, three 
eggs, salt and pepper, lemon juice. Bake in oven one hour. 

Ham Mousse. 

2 c. cold boiled ham *4 c. cold water 

2 t. prepared mustard j4 c - boiling water 

Few grains cayenne ^2 c. heavy cream 

1 T. granulated gelatine 

Chop boiled ham fine with the mustard and cayenne. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water three minutes, then dissolve 
in the boiling water and add to the ham. When well mixed, 
add cream, beaten stiff. Turn into mold, chill and garnish 
with asparagus and pimento. Serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Hasenpfeffer. 

Use either rabbit or beef. Put the meat in a stone jar and 
cover with a mixture made of equal parts of vinegar and water. 
Add to this one small onion, salt, pepper-corns, cloves and one 
bay leaf. Let the meat remain in this brine for two or three 
days. Then remove and brown in butter. Turn it often and 
add gradually some of the liquid. When done, add a cup of 
rich sour cream and three or four ginger snaps to the gravy 
and serve hot. 



32 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Phone 
Hanover 

188 



The Paul E. Mueller Co, 
HEATING 

CONTRACTORS 



Steam, Vapor, Hot Water Heating 

and Sprinkler Systems. 

Ventilating and 

Power Plants 



ESTIMATES PLANS 

FURNISHED PREPARED 



Repairing 



Reed and Oregon Streets 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 33 



Jellied Veal Tongue. 

y 2 doz. veal tongues Salt 

Vinegar Whole pepper 

Onion Cloves 
1/3 bay leaf 

Wash the veal tongues and boil in enough water to 
cover. Add one-third as much vinegar as water, an onion, 
bay leaf, salt, whole pepper and cloves. When tender remove 
tongues and strain liquid through cheese cloth wrung in cold 
water. This will remove grease and spices. When tongue is 
cold enough to handle, skin same and cut once lengthwise. 
Arrange in a bowl and add the strained liquid and set aside 
for one day to form a solid jelly. 

Meat Cakes. 

Use cold meat, chopped and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Put a spoonful of egg batter on the griddle. On this 
put a spoonful of chopped meat. Cover with batter. When 
browned on one side, turn and brown on other. Serve hot. 

Rechauffe. 

Chop two kinds of any kind of cold meat, very fine, and 
stir in one-half teaspoon of mustard, a cup of milk, a little 
flour, butter the size of a walnut, pepper and salt. Put in pan 
and keep stirring until it boils, being careful not to burn it- 
Spread over triangular half slices of toasted bread. 



Sweet-sour Tongue. 

Boil fresh beef tongue three to four hours with a few 
pepper corns, bay leaves, onions, and salt. When done lay in 
cold water ten to fifteen minutes. Remove skin and cut in 
thin slices. Strain stock and thicken with flour. Add four 
to five ginger snaps dissolved in one-half cup vinegar, one- 
fourth teaspoon ground cloves, one-fourth teaspoon cinnamon, 
salt and pepper to taste. Add sliced tongue to gravy, let 
come to a boil and remove from fire. Raisins and blanched 
almonds may be added to gravy when serving, if desired. 



34 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Eat More Eggs 

Eggs Come in the Original 
"Sealed Package" 

THE hen sends her fruit to you in the 
original container. No matter when 
or where you get Eggs you can have them 
in Nature's own "Sealed Package." 

You should eat Eggs the year round. 
They are rich in vitamines. To make chil- 
dren grow and put pep in grown-ups there 
is no better food. Eggs are cheaper than 
they have been in years. At any price they 
are the truest economy. The children will 
delight in eating plain, wholesome fare when 
the tastiness of good Eggs are added. 

There are 100 ways in which Eggs can 
be used. For eating, baking and cooking 
there is no real substitute. 

Bake your cake with Eggs. Good things 
to eat taste best when made with Eggs. 

MILWAUKEE BUTTER,CHEESE 
AND EGG EXCHANGE 

85 DETROIT ST. (Mayer Bldg.) 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 35- 



Veal Croquettes. 



2 oz. butter 


2 c. cold, finely 


1 onion 

Nutmeg 

Rind of a lemon 

1 well beaten egg 


Thyme 

Parsley 

Salt and pepper 

3 T. cream 



Put butter into a sauce pan. Mince and fry the onion 
and the veal. Soak a slice of bread in water and squeeze dry 
and add thyme, chopped parsley, nutmeg, rind of the lemon, 
salt and pepper. When heated, take from fire and add the 
cream and the well beaten egg. Mix thoroughly and set away 
to cool. When cool make into little rolls and dip in beaten 
egg. Fry in boiling fat. 

Veal Loaf. I 

3 lb. veal 1 c. rolled crackers 

^4 lb. salt pork 3 eggs 

Sage Pepper 

Bake in a loaf three hours in a slow oven. 

Saure Klops. 

1 lb. chopped pork 2 eggs 

1 c. bread crumbs (scant) 3 medium sized onions 

To 3 c. of boiling water add 2 sliced onions, 3 kernels of 
allspice, salt to taste. Mix pork, one chopped onion, bread! 
crumbs and eggs, season to taste. Form into balls and drop 
into the boiling water, boil 15 minutes. Take out meat balls 
and add to the water a paste of 2 T. flour mixed with 'vinegar 
or lemon juice, 1 t. sugar and 1 T. butter. Let boil, take 
from fire, and slowly add the yolk of 1 egg, beaten. Chopped 
dill adds to the flavor. 



36 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 




You will be interested to know the 
merits of the new 

"National" Pressure 

COOKER 



Cooks a complete meal of meat, vegetable 
and desserts all at one time, over one burner, 
in 30 minutes, and the flavors .will not blend. 

Old hens and roosters cooked tender in 
40 minutes. Food flavors are better because 
there is no loss of juices in cooking. 

Saves money on fuel, grocery and meat 
bills. Lasts a lifetime when properly 
cared for. 

Sold in Milwaukee at 

Gimbel Brothers 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 37 

VEGETABLES. 

Baked Pork and Beans. 

Soak one quart of beans in cold water over night. In the 
morning, put them in fresh, cold water and simmer until soft 
enough to pierce with a pin, being careful not to let them boil 
until they burst. If you wish, boil one onion with them. 
When soft, turn them into a colander and pour cold water 
through them. Place them in a bean pot. Pour boiling water 
over one-fourth pound of salt pork, half fat and half lean. 
Scrape the rind until white. Cut the rind in one-half inch 
strips and bury the pork in the beans, leaving only the rind 
exposed. Mix one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, and 
one-fourth cup molasses in a cup. Fill the cup- with hot 
water and when well mixed, pour this over the beans. Add 
enough more water to cover the beans. Keep covered with 
water until the last hour, and then lift the pork to the surface 
and let it become crisp. Bake eight hours in a moderate oven. 

Baked Mashed Potatoes. 

2 c. mashed potatoes (cold) 1 c. milk or cream 
2 T. melted butter Salt 

2 eggs Pepper 

Stir butter well with potatoes, add eggs, beaten stiff, then 
cream. Season to taste. Beat mixture well, place in greased 
pudding dish and bake in quick oven until brown. Serve hot. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

1 qt. cold, boiled potatoes y 2 c. bread crumbs 
1 pt. thick cream sauce Salt and pepper 

Slice the potatoes into thin slices. Butter a dish and put 
in alternate layers of sauce and potatoes, seasoning potatoes 
with salt and pepper. Cover last layer of same with bread 
crumbs. Dot with butter and bake twenty minutes. 

Escalloped Onions. 

Use cold boiled onions. Put into a buttered baking dish 
a layer of onions, salt, pepper, bread crumbs, and pieces of 
butter, and so on until the dish is filled. Pour over all a little 
cream or milk, and bake twenty minutes. 



38 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



IN PLANNING YOUR NEW HOME OR TO 

MAKE THE BEST OF YOUR 

PRESENT ONE 

Heat With Oil 

It will pay you to install the BERRYMAN system of oil 
heating. It is the best and most economical oil burner on the 
market, and can be installed in any heating system. 

It is all automatic, makes less noise, burns cheaper oil, and 
is simple and durable. 

When used in connection with our special oil-burn boiler, 
the BERRYMAN system of oil heating your fuel consump- 
tion will compare with hard coal at from $7 to $8 a ton. There 
is no waste of fuel, and no dirt. 

Visit our show-room and let us show you how the BERRY- 
MAN will give you better heat and reduce your fuel bill. 



Juttner Heating Company^ 

Office and Showrooms: ' 432 Jefferson St. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK ROOK 39 



Fried Tomatoes. 

Pare tomatoes that are not too ripe. Slice them rather 
thick and dip them into bread crumbs. Fry in butter until 
richly browned. Sprinkle with a little salt. They are delicious. 



Ttalian Macaroni. 

1 lb. beef 3 or 4 cloves 

2 stalks celery Salt 

Sprig of parsley y 2 or 1 lb. spaghetti or 

Carrot macaroni 

Use of the round of the beef, or any part good for stews. 
Boil all ingredients, except the macaroni, three or four hours, 
with only enough water to stew down to a rich gravy. An 
hour before serving, boil the macaroni in plenty of water and 
salt. When done, drain and put on a platter and dress with 
the strained gravy. Serve with the meat. 



Macaroni. 

Y^ lb. macaroni 1 T. butter 

3 pt. boiling water 1 T. flour 

iy 2 c hot milk 1 t. salt 

2/Z c. cracker crumbs 1 c. melted butter 

Break the macaroni into three-inch pieces and put into 
the boiling water. Boil twenty minutes, or until soft. Drain 
in a colander and pour cold water through it to prevent stick- 
ing. Cut into inch pieces. Put into a baking dish and cover 
with a white sauce made with the hot milk, butter and flour. 
Add the salt. Mix one cup melted butter with the cracker 
crumbs and sprinkle over top. Bake to a light brown. 



Noodle Pancake. 

For one soup-plateful boiled noodles, take one egg and 
two tablespoons milk. Mix all well, and add a little flour. 
Fry in plenty of butter until light brown on both sides. Turn 
it on a cover. Serve with sugar and cinnamon. 



40 



THE SHOREVVOOD COOK BOOK 



Louis Dobbratz Co. 

Wholesale Grocers and 
Commission Merchants 

276-280 Broadway 
Milwaukee, Wis. 




THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 41 

Stuffed Celery. 

Wash crisp stalks of celery. Dry and fill with cream cheese 
mixed with mayonnaise dressing to the consistency of cottage 
cheese. Add finely chopped green peppers and fill the grooves 
with it. Add a few grains of cayenne, if desired. Small pieces 
of pimento on top are pretty. Serve with soup. 

Spanish Rice. 

1 c. washed rice 34 c - butter 

8 c. boiling, salted water 1 small can tomatoes 

Salt 1 small green pepper 

Paprika 

Drop rice gradually into the boiling, salted water. Boil 
one-half hour or until tender. Add the butter, tomatoes and 
the green pepper, chopped fine. Season well with salt and 
paprika and bake in buttered pudding dish one-half hour. 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take ripe, firm tomatoes, cut off top, take out inside pulp, 
Drain off most of juice. Take finely rolled bread crumbs and 
mix well with pulp, 1 beaten egg, 1 T. chopped parsley, 2 T. 
chopped table celery, 1 chopped onion, salt and pepper, a 
little sugar. Mix ingredients well and fill up tomatoes. Place 
small piece of butter on each and bake one-half hour, or until 
tender. Very good with baked fish. 



42 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



y ■ ■ 




First in Quality, First in Service, and 

First in the Good Will of Milwaukee 

Mothers and Children 




THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 43 

SALADS. 

Apple Salad. 

1 qt. finely cut apples. 24 c. French dressing 

1 pt. water-cress 6 stuffed olives 

1 Neufchatel cheese 

The water-cress is picked from the stems and mixed with 
the apples and placed in a salad bowl lined with shredded 
lettuce. Rub the cheese through a strainer or a fruit press. 
Spread over the top, and serve with the French dressing or 
mayonnaise. Garnish with stuffed olives, cut into three rings 
each. 

A Good Salad. 

1 can peas 1 c. meat (veal or chicken 

1 c. chopped table celery preferred) 

1 c. nuts (chopped walnuts 
best) 

Mix with French or boiled dressing. Very nice served 
or. three slices of tomatoes and decorated with parsley and 
sliced green peppers. 

A Good Salad. 

Cook 4 eggs until hard, chop fine ; add chopped celery and 
a can of small peas and a little finely chopped green pepper. 
Serve with boiled dressing on lettuce or endive. French 
dressing may be added if desired. 

American Chop Suey. 

Take one package of spaghetti and boil in salt water until 
tender. One pound of chopped beef browned with a little 
grated onion. Two cups of tomatoes. Let them come to 
boiling point with one teaspoon of allspice. One can of tomato 
soup. Mix these together with red pepper to season. Bake 
in moderate oven for two hours, increasing heat to brown. 

Bean Salad. 

Boil beans in salt water till tender, and drain. Now add 
weak vinegar, pepper and salt, if necessary, and finely chopped 
onion. Lastly, add bacon drippings. If more vinegar or salt 
is required, it may be added to suit one's taste. Serve hot. 



44 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 





AVE 



START to save through our 

Savings Department 



CONTINUE, by investing through our 
Bond Department 



National Bank gf Commerce 

MILWAUKEE 
"The Bank That Excels— West Water and Wells" 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Banana and Apple Salad. 

4 bananas y 2 c. French dressing 

5 apples 5 c. shredded lettuce 
Y± c. peanut butter . 

Line a bowl with lettuce. Slice bananas and apples and 
mix. Put on lettuce. Mix peanut butter with the dressing and 
pour over all. 

Beet Salad. 
2 c. chopped, boiled beets 1 c. chopped celery 

Mix with mayonnaise. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Shred small head of cabbage and add one onion cut fine. 
Add pepper and salt to taste, also half teaspoon of sugar. 
Now take y 2 cupful equal parts vinegar and water and about 
three tablespoons bacon drippings. Let boil and pour hot 
over the cabbage. Mix well and serve immediatelv. 

Cherry Salad. 

1 lb. black cherries Y% c mayonnaise or French 
10 almonds dressing 

Hearts of lettuce 
First wash and pit the cherries. Blanch and cut the 
almonds into four pieces while they are warm. Insert a piece 
of the almond where the stone of the cherry was. Serve on 
the lettuce. Cover with the dressing. White or black cherries 
may be used and they may be filled with seeded raisins, if so 
desired. 

Chicken Salad. 

2 c. cold chicken Pepper 

\y 2 c. finely chopped celery 1 c. mayonnaise dressing 
1 t. salt 

Cut the cold chicken into small squares and mix with the 
celery, salt, pepper, and half of the dressing. Serve on 
shredded lettuce with the rest of the mayonnaise dressing on 
top. This salad may be garnished with hard-boiled eggs, cut 
into six pieces, or with sliced olives, capers or chopped parsley. 

Celery Salad. 
Boil a celery root until tender. When cold peel and cut 
into cubes. Cut four hard-boiled eggs into cubes and mix 
with mayonnaise. 



46 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

THE 

CONCORDIA 

Fire Insurance Company 

OF MILWAUKEE 



INCORPORATED 1870 



Cash Capital $ 750,000.00 

Re-insurance Reserve 2,692,304.24 

Reserve for Outstanding Losses. 378,099.62 
Reserve for all other Liabilities. . 100,000.00 
Net Surplus 790,182.67 



Total Assets $4,710,586.53 



Surplus to Policyholders $1,540,182.67 



WM. E. WOLLAEGER, President. 
AUG. J. LUEDKE, Vice-President. 

GEO. P. MAYER, Vice-President. 

FRANK DAMKOEHLER, Secretary 
HERMAN AMBOS, Ass't Secretary 

ROBERT H. MOORE, Ass't Secretary. 
R. E. BRANDENBURG, Treas. 

Agency Superintendents: H. W. ASHBY, A. C. MEEKER. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Cottage-Cheese Salad. 

1 lb. cottage cheese 6 stuffed olives 
2y 2 T. finely cut chives y> c. dressing 

2 T. pepper or parsley 3y c. shredded lettuce 
1 t. salt 

Mix the cheese, chives, peppers and salt together. If too 
dry, add cream. Mash until smooth. Line a bowl with the 
lettuce and pile the cheese in center. Add the olives, cut into 
rings, and sprinkle with parsley and paprika. 



Cucumber Salad. 

Peel and slice cucumbers. Add good handful salt and 
also water to just about cover. Let stand several hours. 
Drain and squeeze out the salt water well from the cucum- 
bers. Add equal parts vinegar and water to just cover, onion 
cut fine, a little sugar, more salt if necessary, and season well 
with pepper. 



Daisy Salad. 

4 hard-boiled eggs 1/: c. shredded lettuce leaves 

y 2 c. French dressing or water-cress 

Cut the eggs into halves the long way and remove the 
yolks. Mash the yolks through a strainer and cut the whites 
into narrow strips. Put a little lettuce on each place, place 
about a teaspoonful of the yellow right in the center and 
arrange the pieces of white around the yellow so as to make 
it look like a daisy. Serve with French dressing. 



Lettuce Salad. 

5 T. ham or bacon fat 3 t. onion 

2 T. vinegar 1 t. sugar 

1 t. salt Pepper 
1 head lettuce 

Wash the lettuce leaves and lay in cold water. Cook the 
ham or bacon fat and onion for three minutes. Add the 
vinegar, salt, pepper, sugar and two tablespoons of cold 
water. Drain and shake the lettuce, put into a bowl, and pour 
over the hot dressing. Serve at once. 



48 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



The "Sengbusch" 

Self-Closing Inkstand 

is not a Cooking Utensil, but many a good 
Recipe has been written with a pen dipped in 
a Sengbusch Inkstand. 

TO possess an out- 
fit of "Sengbusch" 
Self-Closing Ink- 
stands is the ambition of 
many a man — an ambi- 
tion unsatisfied because 
he does not realize that 
the "Sengbusch". saves 
more than its cost, every 
year, in ink, pens, tem- 
per, and time. 

It provides clean, 
clear, fresh ink, all the 
time. It prevents blots 
and spills. 

It is a gift that any- 
one who uses a pen at 
all will be sure to ap- 
preciate and enjoy. 




Emerald Cut Glass Base 

No. 206 with one cut glass stand 
No. 216 with two cut glass stands 




Emeraline Cut Glass Base 

one No. 57 cut glass 



No. 202 with 
inkstand. 

No. 212 with 
inkstands. 



two No. 57 cut glass 



Get One for Your Husband for a Christmas Gift 

The famous "Sengbusch" Self-Closing Inkstand is 
Air Tight — Dust-Proof — Non-Evaporating 
Simple to Fill — Self-Adjusting — Instantly Ready 

A Combination of 

Utility, Durability, Cleanliness and Economy 

Made in 200 Designs — $2.00 up to $27.50 

Sengbusch Self-Closing Inkstand Co. 

Dept. "C", Stroh Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis., U. S. A. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 49 

Fish Salad, Jellied Tomato Border. 

Canned fish or cold, boiled 1 T. onion juice 

halibut or haddock 2 T. finely chopped parsley 

1 c. cold rice 3 c. lettuce 

1 c. cut celery Peppers or olives 
1 c. mayonnaise 

Mix the rice, celery, half the mayonnaise and the onion 
juice together. Place fish on lettuce leaf with rest of mayon- 
naise. Garnish with tomato jelly cubes, parsley, peppers or 
olives. 

Horse-Radish Salad. 

3y c. cold, diced beets y 2 c. French dressing 

1 c. cut onions y 2 c. chopped, sweet pickles 
y 2 c. strong, grated horse- Shredded lettuce 

radish 

Line a bowl with the lettuce. Cover with the beets. Mix 
the onion, horse-radish and French dressing and put two 
tablespoons in the center and the rest around the edge of the 
beets. Sprinkle with the chopped sweet pickles. Serve with 
cold meat. 

Marquise Salad. 

2 firm tomatoes 2% T. olive oil 
Y\ c. cut onion Lettuce leaves 
y 2 c. cut parsley French dressing 

Wash and pare the tomatoes and cut into halves. Mix 
the onion, parsley and olive oil together and let stand for two 
hours. To serve, line a bowl with lettuce, place the tomatoes 
and one tablespoonful onion and parsley mixture on each. 
Pour over French dressing. Serve very cold. 

Neufchatel-Cheese Salad. 

1 Neufchatel cheese 3 T. tart jelly 

2 c. shredded lettuce Salt 
French dressing Paprika 

Line a bowl with lettuce. Press the cheese through a wire 
strainer over the lettuce, or mix the cheese with seasoning and 
a little top milk into small balls, sprinkle with paprika, and 
garnish with small pieces of jelly. Serve with French dress- 
ing in a separate dish. 



50 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Insures Hygienic Cleansing 

Sweet-smelling clothes and hygienically 
cleansed dishes are obtained by using 
Crystal White Family Soap. 






CRYSTAL WHITE 



f&^,,,4^^m>^T^\^^?mz 



Contains no animal fats 
Made entirely from pure, vegetable oils 



Peet Bros. Mfg. Company 

KANSAS CITY SAN FRANCISCO 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 511 

Pineapple Salad. 

A slice of pineapple on a lettuce leaf with one-fourth of 
a banana cut lengthwise. One strip of pimento put over 
crosswise. Then a spoon of mayonnaise dressing. Sprinkle 
with chopped walnuts. 

A Good Mexican Dish — Postre de Manzanas: 

Take a goodly portion of Roquefort cheese and about 
one-third as much butter, and rub them together until they 
are thoroughly mixed ; then add a dessert spoon of French 
cognac or just enough to moisten the mixture. Peel russet 
apples, core and slice the round way, rather thick, and over 
each slice spread the cheese. Serve with black coffee. 

Potato and Celery Salad. 

1 qt. boiled potatoes, diced 2^2 T. vinegar 

1 c. finely cut celery 1 t. salt 

y 2 c. cut onion Spk. pepper 

3 T. finely cut parsley 1^ c. boiled dressing 

2 c. shredded lettuce 

Put all the ingredients into a bowl, except the lettuce and' 
the boiled dressing. Mix well. Line a salad bowl or a chop, 
plate with the lettuce. Pile the salad in the center, cover with 
the dressing and sprinkle with one tablespoonful of parsley. 
A hard-boiled egg may be added, chopping the white fine' 
and sprinkling it around the edge of the salad, and rubbing 
the yolk through a wire strainer. This makes a very tasty- 
salad. 

Prune Salad. 

2 doz. large prunes y'2 c. mayonnaise or French 

1 Neufchatel cheese dressing 

\y 2 T. peanut butter % t. salt 

Shredded lettuce 

Wash the prunes and let stand in cold water all night. 
Heat up, cool and dry on tissue toweling. Mix the cheese, 
peanut butter and salt, and if too dry to form into balls, add 
cold milk, and stuff into the prunes. Press together or leave 
open, showing filling. Serve on lettuce leaf with either- 
dressing. 



52 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Fur Fur 

W. J. ROOT 

MANUFACTURERS OF FINE FURS 
Phone Hanover 1911 375 National Avenue 



The Fur Garments we produce 

are made from the best skins 

that our knowledge and skill 

can produce. 

Fair prices — best work — fine 

material — correct styles. You 

can ask no more and we can 

give no less. 



WE DO 
STORING REPAIRING 

REMODELING 



GET OUR PRICES 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 53 

Raisin and Apple Salad. 

1 c. selected raisins 2y 2 c. lettuce 

34 c. lemon juice 1*4 c. cream mayonnaise 

2 c. apples *4 glass of red jelly 

Wash and dry the raisins. Add the lemon juice to the 
chopped apples. Line a bowl or plates with shredded lettuce, 
and pile the raisins and apples in the center. Cover with the 
mayonnaise. Serve with Neufchatel cheese balls and garnish 
with tart red jelly. 

Red Cabbage Salad. 

1 c. cut celery 2% T. vinegar 
2^2 c. red cabbage 1 t. salt 

2^2 T. olive oil Paprika 

Shredded or whole lettuce Pepper 
leaves 

Prepare the celery and the cabbage and place in cold 
water for an hour. Drain, and dry with cheese cloth. Mix 
the celery and cabbage together and serve on lettuce leaves 
with dressing. 

Red Cabbage Salad. 

4 heads of red cabbage 4 c. sugar 

2 qt. vinegar 

Cut cabbage fine and cook, not too soft, in salted water. 
Drain off water and put cabbage into a jar. Let the vinegar 
and the sugar come to a boil, pour over cabbage, and cover. 
Keeps well and is always ready for use. 

Redbeet Salad. 
8 good-size redbeets 1 cup walnuts, cut up 

2 cups celery, cut up 

Cook redbeets and cut into small dice; add celery and 
nuts and cup sugar; mix with salad dressing and set in ice 
box to chill. 

Salmon Salad. 
1 can salmon 3 hard-boiled eggs 

1 c. celery 3 pickles, cut fine 

3 apples, chopped fine 

Drain off all liquid from the salmon. Flake it and remove 
all skin and bones. Add celery, apples, hard-boiled eggs and 
pickles. Mix with mayonnaise. 



54 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Any Recipe in this Book 



Can Be Cooked on a 

Westinghonse 

Electric 
Range 

If you have never 
tasted food cooked elec- 
trically you cannot know 
what wonderful results 
can be accomplished. 

Electrical cooking is 
just as simple and just 
as quick as gas cooking 
— and cheaper and more 
convenient. 



Let Us Tell You More About It 




A Westinghouse Waffle 
Iron cooks delicious 
waffles, omelettes, and 
similar dainties, right at 
the table. Wonderful for 
breakfast, luncheon and 
supper. 




JULIUS ANDRAE & SONS CO. 



Broadway and Michigan St. 



Phone Broadway 4900 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 55 



Salmon Salad. 
1 can salmon 6 stalks celery 

1 can peas 6 hard-boiled 'eggs 

Flake salmon and free from skin and bones. Wash and 
drain celery and cut fine. Dice the hard-boiled eggs. Moisten 
with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves with wafers and 
potato chips. Will serve from fifteen to eighteen persons. 

Salmon Salad. 
1 can good red salmon 1 r. celery, chopped 

1 c. walnuts, chopped fine 1 small green pepper, chopped 

Mix this with mayonnaise dressing and serve on a lettuce 
leal - Rice Salad. 

4 c. rice y 2 c. French dressing 

Y\ c. chopped carrots or beets 1 c. mayonnaise dressing 

2 c. water-cress 2 T. onion 

5 olives 

Pile rice in the center of the dish, lined with lettuce. 
Place vegetables around, then a circle of rice, with water-cress 
or lettuce around the edge. Pour on French dressing mixed 
with grated onion. Serve with mayonnaise. 

Spinach and Egg Salad. 
2 c. cold, boiled spinach 2 t. salt 

4 hard-boiled eggs 4 T. chopped peppers 

Ay 2 c. lettuce y> c. mayonnaise 

Add the salt and one-half the mayonnaise to the chopped 
spinach. Mix well and take a spoonful and cover the yolks. 
Then roll in the finely chopped whites of eggs. Sprinkle with 
peppers or parsley. Serve on the shredded lettuce with mayon- 
naise between balls. Parsley may be used instead of chopped 
peppers, if desired. 

String Bean Salad. 
1 qt. string beans White pepper 

\]/ 2 T. chopped onions Paprika 

y 2 t. salt IH T. olive oil 

Shredded lettuce 1 T. vinegar 

Set the string beans aside until cold after they have been 
cooked, drained, and rinsed in cold water. Chop the onion, 
cover with olive oil and let stand for two hours. Add the 
salt, pepper, paprika and vinegar. Line a bowl with lettuce, 
put in the beans and pour over the dressing. 



56 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



The East Side Bank 



Farwell Ave. at North Ave. 



W. I.^GREENE, President 

PATRICK W. DEAN, Vice-President 
W. F. NOLAN, Cashier 

E. C. GENTHE, Ass't Cashier 



DIRECTORS 

W. I. Greene Patrick W. Dean Richard Kiel 

Dr. W. T. Nichols Otto Best 



Patronize Your Neighborhood Institution 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 57 

Sardine Salad. 

1 box mustard sardines 1 medium-sized onion 
Yi apple y 2 c. table celery 

Chop all ingredients and mix. Add a little pepper and 
salt, and enough vinegar to moisten. 

Stuffed Pepper Salad. 

3 green peppers 1 t. curry powder 

2 c. cold boiled rice 5 stuffed olives 

4^2 T. finely chopped peppers Y\ c. mayonnaise dressing 
2y 2 T. grated onions Shiedded or whole lettuce leal 

Peppers should be the long, thin kind. The tops are cut 
off at the stems and the ends chopped fine. Remove the seeds 
and white fibre. The chopped peppers are added to the rice 
with the onion, curry powder and dressing. Mix well and 
fill the peppers, pressing the mixture in firm. Set in a cold 
place. Line a bowl with shredded lettuce and with a sharp 
knife cut the peppers into quarter-inch rings and lay them on 
the lettuce. Mustard may be used instead of curry powder. 
Garnish the tops with the olives, cut into three rings each. 

Tomato Aspic on Shredded Cabbage. 
2 c. tomatoes 4 t. granulated gelatine 

1 t. onion White pepper 

1 t. salt Paprika 

1 t. sugar 

Cook the tomatoes and onion for ten minutes. Add 
seasonings and strain. Soak the gelatine in one tablespoonful 
of cold water and add to the tomatoes. Stir until dissolved. 
Pour into cups and let stand until firm. Serve on finely 
shredded cabbage with French dressing, mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing may also be used. Garnish with green peas. A 
little more sugar may be added, if desired. 

Tomato with String Beans. 
10 tomatoes Paprika 

4 c. shredded lettuce J /2 c. French dressing 
A l / 2 c. cold, string beans 1 c. mayonnaise dressing 
l / 2 c. cut onion 5 stuffed olives 

2 t. salt Parsley 

Cut off the stem ends of the tomatoes. Remove the inside 
and chill. Fill with beans, onions, parsley and French dress- 
ing. Garnish and serve with the sliced olives and mayonnaise 
dressing. 



58 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



TRAPP BROS. 

Milk, Cream and 
Whipping Cream 

— real quality products for the 
discriminating cook 

TRAPFS 

"Purity First" 

Fancy Creamery Butter 

— always fresh and palatable 

Churned daily 

% 

Everybody loves to drink 



QM^xifounA 



-in bottles only 



— the delightful table drink for 
young and old 

TRAPP BROS. DAIRY CO. 

75-92 Burleigh St. Phone Edgewood 330 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 59 

Tongue Salad. 

Boil a fresh beef tongue. When cold, skin, slice and cut 
into cubes. Cut two stalks of celery into cubes. Also one 
can mushrooms, one small can pimento, two hard-boiled eggs 
cut into cubes. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. When boil- 
ing tongue, add an onion, a bay leaf and pepper corns. When 
tongue is cut into cubes squeeze juice of one lemon over it. 
Enough for twelve persons. 

Tuna Fish Salad. 
1 25c can Tuna fish 1 10c bottle stuffed olives 

1 c. English walnut meats 1 bunch celery 

2 large green peppers 

Cut up the peppers, nut meats, olives and celery. Mix 
all with mayonnaise dressing, serve on a lettuce leaf and place 
a slice of hard-boiled egg on each. This amount will serve 
twelve people. 

Tomato Aspic. 

Strain one pint of cooked or canned tomato ; add teaspoon 
salt, one saltspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice and % DOX 
gelatine. Soak for y 2 hour, then bring to boiling point. Pour 
into small moulds which have been brushed with whites of 
egg; put on ice to harden. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise 
dressing and parsley. 

White-Bean Salad. 

2>y 2 c. cooked white beans J / 2 c. boiled dressing 

1 c. cut celery 4 T. chopped parsley 
J / 2 c. cut onions 1 sour pickle 

\y A T. oil Shredded lettuce 

2 t. salt 

Cover the onion and parsley with oil and let stand for 
two hours. Mix the beans, celery, salt and onions together 
and serve on lettuce with dressing. Water-cress may be used 
instead of celery. Boiled dressing may be substituted by 
mayonnaise dressing, if desired. Garnish with the sliced 
pickle. 

A Delicious Salad. 

On a bed of shredded lettuce leaves place a slice of canned 
pineapple. Chop some apple and table celery and place on 
pineapple. Sprinkle with chopped pickled beets. Cover with 
mayonnaise. This is a very pretty salad. 



60 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 




You 
Don't 
Forget 



to pay your grocery or department 
store bill because you receive a state- 
ment each month reminding you of the 
amount due. You won't forget to pay 
your savings account if you adopt our 
Monthly Statement Savings Plan. 

Notify us how much you want to 
save each month. We send you a re- 
minder on the first of the month and 
you send us a check or make your de- 
posit in person just as you do with 
your other bills. 

The important feature is that 
you can't forget. 

First Wisconsin 

National Bank 

Milwaukee 

Capital, Surplus and Undivided 
Profits . . . Ten Million Dollars 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 61 



DRESSINGS. 

Cream Dressing for Cold Slaw. 

Two tablespoons whipped sweet cream, two of sugar, and 
four of vinegar. Beat well and pour over cabbage, previously 
cui. very fine and seasoned with salt. 

Salad Dressing. 

2 T. table mustard 1 t. salt 

1 c. vinegar 1 T. flour (heaping) 

1 c. sugar 1 T. butter (heaping) 

Mix and let come to a boil ; then add 2 well-beaten eggs. 
Cook until thick; thin with sweet cream. 

Uncooked Sweet Dressing for Salad — Very Good. 

Yolks of 4 eggs well beaten, 2 cups XXXX sugar, juice 
of 2 lemons, 2 saltspoons salt; beat sugar into beaten yolks, 
adci lemon juice and salt. 

Boiled Salad Dressing. 

2 eggs Piece of butter, size of an tgg 
1 T. prepared mustard 1 T. sugar 

Yz t. salt 3 T. vinegar or lemon juice 

Beat eggs well and add mustard, salt, and sugar. Beat 
well, then add butter and vinegar. Boil in double boiler, stir- 
ring continually until it thickens. When it cools, stir and thin 
with oil or cream. 

Dressing for Potato Salad. 

1 heaping T. flour 1 T. butter 

2 T. vinegar 2 c. water 

2 eggs 2 c. chopped celery 

Salt Pepper 

Heat butter and flour, add vinegar and water, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire, stir in well beaten eggs. Mix 
celery with sliced potatoes, then pour on dressing. 



p- 



cooking 

/ 




One cup of Carnation Milk plus 
one cup of water makes two cups 
of rich, wholesome milk that is 
just right for cooking. Add a 
little more water if you want 
thinner milk. If the recipe says 
"cream," use Carnation undi- 
luted. Use it this way also in 
coffee, in cocoa and on desserts. 
It whips too, fluffily. Buy Car- 
nation Milk regularly from your 
grocer. 

Carnation Milk. Products Company 
new york chicago seattle 



Carnation 
Milk 



'From Contented Cows 




The label is red and white 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 63 

Dressing for Sandwiches. 

2 eggs 1 t. mustard 
1 t. flour Pinch of salt 

3 T. sweet milk 3 T. vinegar 

Beat eggs, flour, and mustard well together and add the 
salt, vinegar, and milk. Stir all together and set on the stove 
until it creams. Stir constantly. This is enough for a quarter 
of a ham. You may use cold beefsteak or other meats, if 
you like. 

Fruit Salad Dressing — No. 1. 

y 2 c. sugar Pinch of red pepper 

y 2 c. butter ]/ 2 c. lemon juice 

1 t. flour 2 eggs 
Pinch of salt 

Cream sugar and butter. Add other ingredients. Cook 
in double boiler. Thin with whipped cream. Very good. 
Serves ten to fifteen plates. 

Fruit Salad Dressing — No. 2. 

4 egg yolks Juice of 2 lemons 

2 c. powdered sugar 2 ssp. salt (scant) 

Beat sugar and yolks and add lemon juice and salt. Pour 
over fruit. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

3 eggs y 2 t. salt 

3 T. sugar J / 2 t. paprika 

1 t. mustard 1 large T. butter 

1 t. flour 9 T. vinegar 

Beat yolks of six eggs (or three whole eggs) until thick 
and creamy. Add other ingredients. If vinegar is too strong, 
dilute it. Very good when mixed with a tablespoon of whipped 
cream to two tablespoons of dressing. 

Salad Dressing. 

2 eggs, well beaten J / 2 t. Colman's mustard 
1 t. sugar 2 t. flour 

Butter, size of an egg 
y c. vinegar 
Pinch of red pepper 

Add the cream when cold. 



64 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



3unde &• Clpmeyer Co. 
cJewelers -Milwaukee 

Wkerc QvjoJiihf Is As Represented 




ye Works 



Phone Lakeside 595 367 BRADY ST. 

AS NEAR TO YOU AS YOUR TELEPHONE 

All kinds of Re-lining, Altering, Dry Cleaning 
and Pressing of Ladies' and Gents' Work. 

OUR MOTTO— QUALITY, WORKMANSHIP, 
PROPER CARE, REASONABLE PRICES 



We have daily Auto Delivery in Shorewood 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 6S 



Plain Mayonnaise. 



y 2 c. vinegar, warmed 


1 t. mustard 


2 eggs, well beaten 


1 t. sugar 


A little lemon juice 


1 t. salt 


I t. flour 





Mix flour, mustard, and sugar and add to beaten egg- 
Then add to warm vinegar. Cook until thick. Add one-half 
cup milk and cook again. Add piece of butter, size of a. 
walnut, and beat well. 

Russian Salad Dressing. 

1 egg yolk }i t. white pepper 

1 c. olive oil or wessen oil Yz t. salt 

1 t. mustard \y 2 t. vinegar 

1 t. flour 2 T. catsup 
Pinch of red pepper or 

Beat the yolk of the egg with a silver fork in a cold dish. 
Add the olive oil, or wessen oil, drop by drop, until creamy. 
Then take the mustard, flour, red or white pepper, salt and 
moisten this mixture with the vinegar or lemon juice. Add 
the catsup or chili sauce. Keep beating for a while. 



66 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Hilbelt £& Baerwald Co. 



GENERAL 
INSURANCE 



TELEPHONE Broadway 3891 86-88 MICHIGAN ST. 



Follow up a box of 

JULIA FISCHER'S 

Home-made Candy 

and there'll be smiles of gladness and gratitude. You don't 
want to forget the delicate cakes, tortes, and other good things 
that we are now offering to our particular customers! 

Shops at 
228 Grand Ave. 3809 North Ave. 



STEARNS -- KNIGHT 

SLEEVE VALVE MOTORS 

6-Cylinder — 4- Cylinder 

Latest Style Closed Cars on Display 

STEARNS SALES AGENCY 

Lakeside 3800 150-160 Farwell Ave. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 67 

EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Baked Eggs. 

1 c. milk Pepper 

1 t. flour 1 T. butter 

1 t. salt 

Thicken the milk with the flour and add the salt, pepper 
and butter. Break the eggs into this sauce and bake until 
done. 

Deviled Eggs. 

Boil six or eight eggs until hard. Put them into cold 
water until cold and cut in halves. Take out yolks and rub to 
a smooth paste with a very little butter, a dash of cayenne 
pepper, mustard and vinegar. Fill the whites with this mix- 
ture, and send to the table on a bed of chopped cress or lettuce. 

Eggs a La Golden Rod. 

Boil two eggs for twenty minutes. Remove from shell 
and separate. Mix the chopped whites with a white sauce, 
which is seasoned with salt and pepper. Pour over two pieces 
of toast. Rub the yolks through a strainer or ricer. Sprinkle 
over the whites. A little paprika or parsley may be used for 
garnishing. Enough for two. 

Eggs a La Newburg. 

5 hard-boiled eggs 1 T. flour 

1 T. butter 1 gill cream or milk 

Yolks of 2 eggs Salt 

y 2 glass of sherry wine Pepper 

Cut eggs into thick slices. Make sauce of the butter, flour 
and cream. Season with salt and pepper. Then add beaten 
yolks of the eggs and the wine. Serve hot over the eggs. 

Rice Omelet. 

1 c. boiled rice 1 T. butter 

1 c. sweet milk Yz lb. grated ham 

3 eggs 

Beat eggs well and mix with other ingredients. Bake 
until a nice brown. 



68 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

WE SHINE SHOES 
We carry a complete line of Children's Shoes 

ATWATER SHOE REPAIR SERVICE 

BYRNES BROS., Props. 

Corner Maryland and Atwater 
Phone Edgewood 2825-W We Call and Deliver 



BIG JO 

HIGHEST GRADE FAMILY 

FLOUR 

BEST IN THE WORLD 

Wabasha Roller Mill Co., Wabasha, Minn. 

WM. STEINMEYER CO., 

AGENTS 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 69 

Spanish Omelet. 

1 egg 1 T. water 

1 t. salt 1 t. butter 

Separate egg. Add to each, pepper and salt. Beat yolk 
until thick. Add water and mix well. Beat whites until stiff. 
Fold yolk into the white. Place the butter into a hot pan. 
Add the egg and cook at a low temperature. Place into hot 
oven to dry top. Fold and serve with tomato sauce. 

Sweet Omelet. 

2 egg yolks 1 t. sugar 

3 egg whites y 2 oz. butter 
1 t. vanilla 

Put sugar, vanilla, yolks, and beaten whites of the eggs, 
and salt into a bowl and mix all together. Melt butter in a 
small pan and pour into batter. Let stand on top of stove 
for one minute and then put into oven for five minutes. 



70 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



'T^O do effective cooking and baking you will 

-*■ require the proper cooking and baking 

utensils ; also mixing spoons and cream whips. 

We carry a complete line of house utensils. 

We also carry a full line of hardware, gas 
ranges, kitchen heaters, paints, oil and var- 
nishes, crockery, glassware, dinner sets, and a 
full stock of toys. 



R. C. FREIHUBE 



3815 North Ave. 



Milwaukee, Wis. 



Take the work out of Wash Day 

Why should you keep on wasting 
strength and time on washday — using 
the tub and washboard? That is the 
most tiresome, most expensive way to 
get your washing done. It wears out 
clothes, it costs too much for help (if 
you hire a laundress) and it makes a 
whole day of drudgery. 

APEX ELECTRIC WASHER 

No rubbing — everything made won- 
derfully clean. 
$5 PUTS IT IN YOUR HOME 
Balance in easy monthly payments 
COME IN AND SEE IT WORK 

Ph. Gross Hardware C? < 216-18 Third St. 




THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 71 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple Pudding — No. 1. 

1 scant pt. of apple sauce 3 eggs 

1 c. powdered sugar 2 T. melted butter 

1 c. grated bread or cake 

Cook spicy apples to pulp and add the powdered sugar, 
grated bread or cake, yolks of the eggs beaten. Place in 
buttered dish and stir in the melted butter. Add the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs and bake twenty minutes. Serve 
with cream or sauce. 

Apple Pudding — No. 2. 

4 good, juicy apples 2/3 c. sugar 

Pinch of salt 1 ^gg 

Pinch of cinnamon y 2 c. flour 

Butter, size of a nut 1 T. butter 

1 t. baking powder 2/3 c. cold water 

Pare four apples, tart ones are best. Cut into eighths, 
put into pudding dish and pour in hot water to depth of one 
inch. Add sugar to sweeten, pinch of salt, cinnamon, and 
butter, size of a nut. Put on slow fire to simmer. Stir up 
cake. Pour cake batter over apples and bake in quick oven. 
Serve with cream and sugfar. 



'b' 



Bread Pudding. 

1 pt. bread crumbs 1 qt. milk 

1 c sugar 4 eggs 

Soak crumbs in milk for one-half hour. Beat yolks and 
sugar together until light, then add to the crumbs and milk. 
Pour into baking dish and bake in moderate oven, half an 
hour. Very good with hard sauce. 

Brown Betty Pudding. 

1 c. bread crumbs 1 t. cinnamon 

2 c. sliced tart apples 2 T. butter 
]/ 2 c. sugar 

Butter a pudding dish and put a layer of apples in the 
bottom. Sprinkle with sugar, butter, cinnamon and crumbs, 
and so on until the dish is filled, having a layer of crumbs at 
the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 



72 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Community Market 

Julius Heimann, Proprietor 



Dealer in 
and Smoked ■"■CiMl 9 and Sausage 



Fresh, Salt ftfl^fe stf'tf Hams* Bacon 



POULTRY, GAME AND OYSTERS 
IN SEASON 

Corner Prospect V Atwater Road 

TELEPHONE EDGEWOOD 826 



QUALITY AND SERVICE THE BEST 



O'NEILL'S CREAMERY 

Dealer in 
ARROW BRAND BUTTER 

and 
STRICTLY FRESH EGGS 



Phone Lincoln 589 1024 Wright St., Milwaukee, Wis. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 73 

Cottage Pudding. 

1 c. sugar 1 egg 

1 c. sweet milk 3 T. melted butter 
Flour to make a thick batter 1 t. baking powder 

Danish Pudding. 

y 2 c. minute tapioca 1 ssp. salt 

3 c. hot water 1 small tumbler grape jelly 

y 2 c. sugar 

Cook tapioca with hot water fifteen minutes and add 
sugar, salt and grape jelly. Stir until dissolved. Serve ice- 
cold with sweetened whipped cream. One pint ripe straw- 
berries may be used instead of jelly. 

Delicate Pudding. 

ly 2 c, water y 2 ssp. salt 

y 2 c. sugar 3 T. cornstarch 

Bring water, sugar and salt to boiling point, wet the corn- 
starch in a little water. Stir into boiling syrup and cook ten 
minutes. Beat whites of three eggs to a dry froth and whip 
the boiling mixture into them. Return to fire one minute to 
set egg, add juice of half a lemon and turn into molds wet 
with cold water. Let cool. Serve with strawberries, pine- 
apple or other fruit piled up in center. 

Maple Nut Pudding. 

2 c. brown sugar 2 eggs (well beaten) 
1 qt. milk 2 T. cornstarch 

y 2 to 1 c. chopped nuts 1 t. vanilla 

Let sugar and milk come to a boil and add the eggs and 
mix with the cornstarch. When thick remove from fire, add 
the vanilla extract and the nuts. Serve cold with plain or 
whipped cream. 

Meat Pudding. 

Cut into pieces left over veal or lamb. Soak in gravy. 
Line buttered baking dish with sliced potatoes. Cover with 
meat, and add chopped onions, salt, pepper, and then another 
layer of potatoes and then meat. Bake in oven until potatoes 
are well done. 



74 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 





©RANP 



COFF 





THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 75 



Old English 


Plum Pudding. 


1 lb. raisins, stoned and cut 


Y\ lb. suet, chopped very fine 


1 lb. currants, washed and 


y 2 lb. brown sugar 


dried 


6 eggs 


34 lb. citron, cut fine 


1 t. allspice 


2 t. cinnamon 


1 t. nutmeg 


y 2 t. cloves 


]/ 2 pt. milk 


1 t. salt 


6 oz. bread crumb 


6 oz. flour 





Boil five hours without stopping. Wet the pudding bag 
and flour it well. 



Peach Tapioca Pudding. 

Drain canned peaches, sprinkle with sugar and let stand. 
To two tablespoons of peach juice add three-fourths cup 
water. Stir into this one tablespoon minute tapioca. Add 
one-half tablespoon sugar, a little salt, and cook over hot 
water until tapioca is transparent. Line a dish with peaches. 
Fill with tapioca and bake about twenty-five minutes. 



Poor Man's Pudding. 

2 heaping T. rice Nutmeg 

1 qt. milk Raisins 

A little salt 

Put the rice, milk and salt in a pudding dish and sweeten 
to taste. Flavor with nutmeg and add raisins, if desired. 
Bake very slowly until the rice is soft. Then set away to 
partly cool. It will be very creamy and delicious. 



Rice Pudding. 

3 c. milk 

2 eggs y 2 c. raisins 

Boil rice in the milk until tender. Beat eggs and sugar 
slightly, add salt, raisins or grated rind of an orange. Bake 
slowly three-fourths of an hour. Let cool a little. Turn out 
of dish and serve with cream. 



76 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



CHAS. NUNKWITZ 

Dealer in All Kinds of 

FANCY CUT MEATS 



HOTEL, RESTAURANT and FAMILY TRADE 
A SPECIALTY 



Telephone: Broadway 4072-4073 431 Milwaukee St. 



WRAPS GOWNS 



THE UNITY 

67 Wisconsin St. 



SUITS BLOUSES 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 77 

Sally Lunn. 
34 c. sugar l / 2 c. milk 

J / 2 c. butter 2 eggs 

2 t. baking powder 2 c. flour 

Bake in cups twenty minutes and serve hot with hard 
sauce. 

Snow Pudding. 
1 T. gelatine 1 c. sugar 

34 e. cold water % c - lemon juice 

1 c. boiling water 3 eggs 

1 pt. milk % c. sugar 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water ten minutes. Then add 
the boiling water, sugar, lemon juice and put in cool place. 
When beginning to set beat into it the well beaten whites of 
the eggs. Rinse a mold with cold water and fill with the 
mixture. Set in a cool place and cut in pieces. Serve with 
a custard made of the yolks of the eggs, one-fourth cup sugar 
and the milk. Vanilla, if desired. 

Steamed Pudding. 

y 2 c. molasses y 2 c. raisins 

y 2 c. brown sugar 1^ c. flour 

y 2 c. butter 1 t. baking powder 

y 2 c. sour milk 

Steam forty-five minutes and serve with hard sauce. 

Hard Sauce. 

1/3 c. butter Lemon and vanilla 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Cream butter and add sugar slowly. Mix well and flavor 
with lemon or vanilla. Set away to harden. 

What Not. 

Y± c. milk 1 T. butter 

1 egg 1 t. baking powder 

1 c. sugar Flour 

Take a granite pan or one that will not discolor the fruit, 
and slice the apples or peaches in the bottom. Then make a 
batter by using milk, egg, sugar, butter, baking powder. Add 
enough flour to make the batter not quite as thick as cake. 
Pour the above batter over apples and bake. Serve with 
cream. This is simple, but good. 



78 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

For Pure Drugs go to 

KOERNER'S 

COR. 27th ST. AND NORTH AVE. 

If you can't come 

PHONE KILBOURN 450 & 5581 

We Deliver Promptly 

If you want to buy 

TRY THE DRUG STORE FIRST 

Phone Edgewood 2140 Repairing Promptly Attended To 

Albert F. Lutz 

SHOREWOOD CARPENTER AND 
CABINET MAKER 

1567 MURRAY AVE. MILWAUKEE, WIS. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 79 



PIES. 













Blackberry 


Pie. 




1 


c. 


blackberry 


juice 


4 1< 


wel 


T 


1 


c. 


sugar 






2 e 


ggs 




1 


c. 


cream 













flour 



Mix flour with sugar, add blackberry juice, cream and 
yolks of eggs, well beaten. Line a deep dish with good paste, 
rolled thin. Fill with jam, and bake in a quick oven, until 
crust is set, continue baking in slow oven until rilling is thick 
and firm. Add a pinch of salt to white of eggs, beat these 
until stiff and bake. 

Banana Pie 

2 eggs 1 c. milk 

y 2 c. sugar A pinch of salt 

2 T. flour y 2 t. vanilla 

1 T. powdered sugar 3 bananas 

Cook in double boiler the yolks of the eggs, sugar, flour, 
milk, and salt. Add vanilla when custard has finished boiling. 
Slice the bananas into a rich pastry crust baked delicately 
brown and cover with custard. Whip the egg whites and add 
the powdered sugar to this. Put on top and brown in oven. 

Lemon Pie — No. 1. 
1 c. sugar 3 eggs 

1 c. water 1 heaping T. flour 
Rind and juice of 1 lemon 2 t. sugar 

Dissolve the sugar in the water and add the rind and 
juice of the lemon, the yolks of the eggs and the flour, which 
was rubbed smooth in water. Boil all in a porcelain kettle 
until well thickened. Add the white of one egg, well beaten, 
and pour into baked crust. Beat the remaining two whites 
with two teaspoons sugar and spread over the top. Brown 
in oven. 

Lemon Pie — No. 2. 

2 c. sugar 2 T. flour 
Grated rind and juice of 2 IT. cornstarch 

lemons * 2 c. w r ater 

3 eggs, yolks Butter, size of a walnut 

Cook until thick. Let cool and fill in baked crust. Make 
a meringue of whites of the eggs and sugar. 



80 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



J. DRUECKER SONS CO. 

Building Material 

WASHED SAND AND GRAVEL, FUEL 

Atwater and Northwestern Tracks 
Phone Edgewood 34 Shorewood, Milwaukee 



SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO ORDERS 
FOR PARTIES, LUNCHEONS, ETC. 



Atwater Delicatessen 

"Good Things to Eat" 
Phone Edgewood 1852 459 Atwater Road 

A complete line of fancy fruits, vegetables, etc., 

put up in glass jars 
Our bakery goods are all made on the premises 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 81 











Butterscotch 


Pie. 


2 
1 

2 


c. 
c. 
c. 


brown 
water 

milk 


sugar 


2 T. butter 
4 T. flour 
4 eggs 



Boil brown sugar, water, and butter until thick. To the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, add the flour and mix smooth with 
the milk. Pour slowly into the boiling syrup and cook until 
smooth. Pour into the baked crusts and spread top with 
beaten whites of eggs. This makes two pies. Very good. 

French Puff Paste. 

1 lb. flour 1 lb. butter 

Mix the flour with one-fourth of the butter by rubbing 
it together. Add enough ice water to make it the consistency 
of bread dough. Roll this out to the thickness of one-half 
inch. Put the balance of the butter on this, in one lump. 
Fold the corners of the dough over the butter, entirely cover- 
ing it. Roll out to the thickness of one-fourth of an inch, as 
nearly square as possible. Fold the ends over the center. 
The sheet is about four inches in width. Roll again. Let it 
stand one-half hour each time. Roll out four times. 

Sweet Apple Pie. jj 

2 c. stewed sweet apples T / 2 t. ginger 

1 small c. white sugar 2 well beaten eggs 
y 2 t. cinnamon 

Line a deep pie-tin with rich pastry. The pie may be 
baked with upper crust or without. Take the stewed sweet 
apples, using as little water as possible in stewing. When 
well cooked, put through a potato ricer. Add the sugar, cinna- 
mon, ginger and eggs. A crust or meringue on top may be 
used. This pie is as good as pumpkin and is much easier to 
prepare. Apples that will not bake can be used for this. 

Mince Pie. 

2 lb. meat, chopped fine 1 c. molasses 

3 lb. apples, chopped fine 1 c. vinegar 
1 c. raisins 1 c. suet 

3 c. sugar 1 t. cloves 

1 T. salt 1 t. cinnamon 



82 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Soda MBr ;i 8k Candy 




Bakery ^^J^^^J^t Lunch 



While shopping or after the theatre come in and enjoy 
a dainty luncheon 

The PRINCESS 4th and Grand 



INSURANCE 

For 

SERVICE and QUALITY 

See- — 

E* II ■ WINZIL INSURANCE 

Broadway 5017 212 Wells Bldg. 

MILWAUKEE 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 83 

Pie Crust. 
2 c. flour y A lb. lard 

Y^ lb. butter 1 scant t. salt 

1 big t. baking powder y 2 c. milk 

Mix flour, butter and lard with a knife until all is blended. 
Add the salt, and baking powder. Roll out on board and fill 
pie tins. Fill as desired. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

1 c. chopped rhubarb 1 t. lemon flavoring 

1 c. sugar A little salt 

1 egg 

Beat egg together with sugar. The juice of one lemon 
may be used instead of the flavoring, if desired. Bake with 
two crusts. 

Chocolate Pie. 

2 c. sweet milk 2 eggs 

2//5 c. sugar 2 T. grated chocolate 

Heat the milk, sugar and chocolate together. When hot, 
add 2 T. of cornstarch, mixed in a little cold milk, then add 
the beaten eggs. Let it come to a boil. Have your pie dish 
lined with a good pie crust and baked. Fill it with the choco- 
late cream. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 
a little sugar, and set in a cool oven to brown. Very nice. 

Elderberries (for Pies). 

y bu. elderberries 5 lemons 

8 lbs. sugar 

Cook well and put in jars for use. 

Raisin Pie. 
1 egg 1 c. large seeded raisins 

1 c. sour cream 1 t. lemon extract 

1 c. sugar 

Beat egg with sugar, add cream, raisins and flavoring. 
Bake between two crusts. 

Economical Cocoanut Pie. 

Add three tablespoonfuls sugar, a tablespoonful corn- 
starch and the yolk of one egg to one pint of milk. Then add 
1 cup cocoanut. Bake in one crust. Cover with meringue. 



84 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 




Do You Take Pride in 
Your Cooking ? 

Here's a Suggestion Worth Remembering: 

YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS 

and a modern gas range with 
oven heat regulator 

Milwaukee Ga5 
LigHt Company 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 85 

BREAD. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. 

2 c. flour 2 T. shortening 

4 t. baking powder ^4 scant c. milk 

1 t. salt 

Mix dry ingredients together and then work in shorten- 
ing and add milk slowly. Put on floured board and pat about 
three-fourths of an inch thick. Dip cutter into flour and cut. 
Grease tin and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. Two tea- 
spoons sugar may be added, if liked sweetened. This recipe 
makes an excellent crust for chicken or meat pie. 

Biscuits. 

1 qt. milk y 2 c. sugar 
24 c. butter 2c yeast 

2 eggs 2 t. sugar 

Add two teaspoons of sugar to the yeast when you set 
sponge, flour enough to make a nice dough. Roll about one 
inch thick. Will make seventy biscuits. 

Potato Biscuits. 

1 potato ricer boiled potatoes 2 T. butter, melted 

2 eggs 2 T. lard, melted 
lc yeast dissolved in warm 1 c. milk 

water 1 T. sugar 

1 c. flour, sifted 1 t. salt 

Mix all together, then let rise in a warm place until double 
its bulk, cut down, roll and shape into biscuits. Let rise. 
Brush with butter, bake. To be eaten warm. 

Bishop Bread. 

3 eggs 1 t. baking powder 

1 c. sugar 1 c. chopped nutmeats 

1 c. flour 1 c. dates, cut small 

Beat sugar and eggs for ten minutes. Add flour and 
baking powder. Lastly, add the nutmeats and dates. When 
in oven it will raise and then fall. 



86 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Atlas Fancy 
Flour 

Made From Washed Wheat 



Compliments of 



Weber's 



Milwaukee 



Chocolates 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 87 

Cinnamon Bread. 
Use enough light bread dough for a small loaf of bread. 
Roll out and spread with one tablespoon soft butter and one- 
half cup sugar. Roll up and knead a little. Roll out again 
and add two-thirds cup raisins or currants. Knead lightly 
and set to rise. Brush the top with warm butter and sprinkle 
with cinnamon and sugar. Bake when light. 

Corn Meal Muffins. 
2 c. corn meal 3 t. baking powder 

1 c. flour 1 T. melted butter 

2 1 /:. c. milk 3 T. sugar 

1 t. salt 

Rub meal, flour, salt and baking powder through a sieve; 
beat eggs and sugar together and add butter and milk. Stir 
in meal and flour. Bake in a quick oven. 





Ginger 


Muffins. 


4j/2 T. shortening 




1^2 level t. soda 


Y\ c. sugar 




Ginger 


2 eggs 




Cinnamon 


Pinch of salt 




Raisins 


24 c. molasses 




2 J /2 c. flour 


94 c. water 








Graham 


. Muffins. 


1 c. graham or entire 


wheat 


% c. sugar 


flour 




1 t. salt 


1 c. flour 




1 c. milk 


1 egg 




1 to 3 T. melted butter 



4 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk gradually, then 
egg well beaten and melted butter. Bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven in buttered gem pans. 

Graham Muffins. 
4 T. wheat flour 1 level t. baking powder 

3 T. graham flour % t. salt 

1 T. sugar 1 T. beaten egg 

s/ 4 T. lard 3 T. milk 

Mix dry ingredients first, then mix with the egg and 
lastly the melted shortening. Bake about twenty minutes in 
moderate oven. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 






...... .■•■■■■•^■■■•■.•fi.»| l 



^idTOg^^ 



KITCHEN TABLES 



KITCHEN CABINETS 




CHAMBERS FIRELESS GAS RANGE 

YOUR MEAL IS COOKING WHILE YOU DO 
SOMETHING ELSE 

You can get the meal all ready, put 
it in the Chambers Range, go about 
your other work, or dress for a trip 
to the theater or the shops, and 
when you are ready, turn off the gas 
and go along. Your kitchen will run 
as smoothly as if you were there, 
and when you come home the meal 
is ready to serve. Let us show you 
the convenience of this range. 



FISCHER'S 

"HOME OP MASTKRBItT FURHITURC 
^ SECOND STREET AT WEST WATER. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 89 



Juden Schnecken. 

Make a rich kuchen dough. Sprinkle the bottom of a 
spider with brown sugar and coarsely chopped nuts. Form 
into biscuits and fill spider with biscuits. Bake. 

Milk and Water Bread. 

1 pt. scalded milk 1 T. lard 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 T. butter 

2 t. salt 1 T. sugar 

1 pt. warm water 3 qt. sifted flour 

Jnto the quart measure put the shortening, sugar, salt 
and milk. Fill it up with warm water. When cooled to luke 
warm, pour into the breadmixer, reserving about one-half 
cup of the liquid in which to dissolve the yeast. Then add 
to the liquid in the breadmixer, and lastly add the flour. 









Muffins. 






2 c. 
2 t. 

1/2 

1 T 


flour 

baking pow 
c. milk 
. butter (me 
Bake fifteen 


1 T. sugar 
der y 2 t. salt 

1 egg 
sited) 

minutes. 










Nut Bread. 






1 T. 
1 t. 


. sugar 
, molasses 
salt 




1 t. soda 

}i c. walnuts 

\y 2 c. graham 


flour 



24 c. white flour 

Parker House Rolls. 

2 qt. sifted flour y 2 c. sugar 

3 T. butter y 2 cake yeast 

1 pt. cold, boiled milk ~^ 

Rub the butter into the flour. In a hole made in the 
center of the flour put the milk, sugar and yeast. Set at night. 
In the morning, mix with the flour (do not add more flour). 
Let rise until about three o'clock in the afternoon. Roll out 
and cut with a cake cutter. Spread half with butter and fold 
together. Let rise again and brush over with a little sugar 
dissolved in milk before putting into the oven. 



90 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Potato Rolls. 

1 pt. mashed potatoes 1 pt. warm water 

1 c. sugar 3 eggs (well beaten) 
A little salt 2c yeast 

2 T. lard Flour 

In the evening take the potatoes, sugar, salt and lard and 
stir well together. Add the water, eggs, yeast, and flour 
enough to make stiff. In the morning when more flour is 
added, add two teaspoons baking powder. Work up stiff 
and make into small biscuits and place in pan for baking. 
Grease well over the top and let rise until light enough to 
bake. Will make sixty rolls and can be out of the oven by 
9 A. M. 

Rye Bread. 

1 pt. scalded milk 1 T. butter 

1 pt. warm water 3 t. salt 

2 T. sugar 2 qt. rye flour 

1 qt. white flour 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 T. lard 

Put into the quart measure the shortening, sugar, salt, 
milk and fill up with warm water. Let cool to luke warm. 
Pour into the breadmixer, reserving only enough of the liquid 
to thoroughly dissolve the yeast. Pour the dissolved yeast 
into the breadmixer and add the wheat and rye flour. The 
shortening may be omitted, if desired, as also the sugar. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

2 c. sour milk 1 c. molasses 

1 c. rye flour 1 t. soda 

2 c. corn meal 2 eggs 

Steam two hours. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 91 

CAKE. 

She measured out the butter with a very solemn air ; 

The milk and sugar also ; she took the greatest care 

To count the eggs correctly and to add a little bit 

Of baking powder, which, you know, beginners oft omit 

Then she stirred it all together, and she baked it full an hour ; 

But she never quite forgave herself for leaving out the flour. 

Cake Flour. 

5 lb. bread flour 1 lb. cornstarch 

Cake flour produces much better results in cake making 
than common flour. This is especially true of angel food 
cakes. Cake flour can easily and successfully be made at 
home and, if kept handy in a special place, you will not be 
tempted to use bread flour. Take five pounds of bread flour 
to one pound box of cornstarch and sift it together three times. 
You can make it in small quantities, if you wish, provided you 
are careful to keep the proportion of one to five. 

Almond Bread (Christmas Cakes). 

y 2 c. butter y 2 t. cinnamon 

1 lb. brown sugar y 2 t. cloves 

y 2 cake German sweet choco- 2 c. flour 

late 3 t. baking powder 

4 eggs 
y 2 lb. blanched almonds, cut fine 

Bake in shallow coffee cake tins and when cold put on 
following frosting and cut in squares : 

Frosting. 

1 c. sugar y 2 c. water 

Small piece of butter 1 t. vanilla 

Boil five minutes, then beat until cold and creamy. 

Almond Torte. 

6 eggs y 2 lb. grated or ground almonds 
1 c. powdered sugar 1 t. baking powder 

Beat eggs separately. Stir yolks and sugar together, add 
almonds (not blanched), baking powder and lastly, whites of 
eggs. Bake forty minutes. 



92 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



RECIPE No. 1 



For Economical Cooking 

Buy Quality Meats Only. 

Every Ounce of Meat Palatable. 

LET US PROVE IT 

A. J. GAHN 

702 Oakland Ave. 1327 Downer Ave. 

Lakeside 968-969 Edgewood 47-48 

MEATS, FISH AND POULTRY 



Instantaneous Bleach for Sun Tan and Freckles 
Acne Treatment for Pimples and Blackheads 

Electrolytic Facial Massage 

Hairdressing, Scalp Treatment, Shampooing, 

Manicuring, Hair Tinting, Marcelling, 

Water Waving 

Hair Goods of Every Description 

East Side Marinello Shop 

L. KING, Mgr. 

Marinello Preparations and Human Hair Goods 

Phone Lakeside 2840 413 Folsom PI. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 93 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

1 c. sugar 1 c. raisins, chopped 

y 2 c. butter and lard 2 c. flour 

1^2 c. hot apple sauce 2 t. soda 

10c walnuts, chopped Cinnamon 

A little nutmeg Salt 

Cream, butter and sugar. Add hot apple sauce, flour, 
soda, nutmeg, salt, cinnamon, walnuts, and raisins. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

1 c. sugar \y> t. cloves 

y 2 c. shortening 1 t. cinnamon 

1 t. salt y 2 t. nutmeg 

1 c. apple sauce 1 c. raisins 

1 t. soda 2 c. flour 

Dissolve the soda in a little hot water. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

1 c. hot apple sauce 1 t. cinnamon 

y 2 c. butter 1 c. chopped walnuts 

1 ( . sugar 1 c. raisins 

\y± c. flour 1 t soda 

1 t. cloves 

Cream butter and sugar. Add the hot apple sauce, in 
which soda has been dissolved, and the rest of the ingredients. 

Apple Spice Cake. 

4 T. butter y 2 c. sour milk 

1 c. sugar 2 t. cinnamon 

2 well beaten eggs 34 t. cloves 

% t. grated nutmeg 1 heaping c. finely chopped 

2 c. flour apples 

1 t. soda 

Cream the butter and sugar. Then add the well beaten 
eggs. Dissolve the soda in the sour milk. Add the cinnamon, 
cloves and grated nutmeg mixed with the flour. If necessary, 
add more flour as it depends on how juicy the apples are. 
Beat well. May be baked either in loaf or layer. Any plain 
frosting, if desired. This makes a moist cake and may be 
kept a week or more. 



94 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Apple Cake. 

3 c. flour 4 T. shortening 

3 t. baking powder ]/ 2 c. milk 

Yz t. salt 2 eggs, beaten 

1 T. sugar 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar, rub in shorten- 
ing, add milk and eggs. Roll out y 2 inch thick, put into shal- 
low pans, brush dough with butter. Wash, pare and quarter 
apples, press into dough, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon,, 
bake in moderate oven until apples are tender and brown,, 
about one-half hour. To be eaten warm. 

Apple Torte. 

\y 2 lb. apples, boiled and 1 heaping t. flour 

sifted 5 eggs 

2 oz. blanched almonds Rind of y 2 lemon 
6 oz. sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

Fold whites of eggs in last. 

Dough. 

6 oz. butter y 2 t. baking powder 

6 oz. flour 4 T. sugar 

2 egg yolks Vanilla 

Baking Powder Coffee Cake. 

2 c. flour Y\ c. butter 

1 c. sugar Y\ c. milk 

2 t. baking powder 2 eggs 

Mix flour, sugar, baking powder and butter like pie crust.. 
Set aside one cupful of this mixture. Add milk and eggs and 
bake in coffee cake pan. Strew the one cupful of crumbs; 
on top. 

Baking Powder Coffee Cake. 

2 c. flour 1 T. sugar 

4 t. baking powder 2 T. butter 
y 2 t. salt 2/3 c. milk 

Sift dry ingredients four times. Then cut in shortening 
with two knives until it is as fine as cornmeal. Gradually add 
the cold milk by cutting with knife through dough. Sprinkle 
two tablespoons sugar and one-half teaspoon cinnamon on top. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 95 

Blueberry Torte. 

6 oz. butter y 2 c. sugar 

2 T. sugar 2 heaping T. flour 

1 egg 1 egg 

y 2 lb. flour y 2 c. sugar 

\y 2 qt. blueberries y> c. sour cream 

Cream butter and two tablespoons sugar, stir in one egg, 
then one-half pound flour. Line inside of spring form with 
this mixture. Take the blueberries and mix one-half cup 
sugar, two tablespoons flour and fill the crust. Put in slow 
oven and let bake one-half hour or until about one-half done. 
At this time, pour over the fruit a sauce made of the beaten 
yolk of one egg mixed with one-half cup sugar and the sour 
cream. Then stir in the beaten white of egg and let bake 
another one-half hour or until done. Let cool in form. 
Remove rim carefully and let torte remain on tin. 

Blitz Torte— No. 1. 

1 c. flour 

1 t. baking powder 
4 eggs (yolks) y{ c. powdered sugar 

3 T. milk 

Put in two large tins. On the top of this put beaten 
whites of the eggs with the powdered sugar. Sprinkle with 
a few chopped almonds. Bake twenty minutes. 

Filling. 
1 c. sour cream 1 T. cornstarch 

3 T. sugar Yolk of 1 egg 

Dissolve corn starch in cold water and boil with the above 
ingredients. When thick and cold add white of egg. 

Blitz Torte — No. 2. 

y c. sugar 1 t. vanilla 

y c. butter 1 heaping c. flour 

4 eggs 1 t. baking powder 

5 T. milk 

Bake in two layers. Beat whites of eggs very stiff and 
add one-half cup sugar, one-fourth pound almonds, finely 
chopped. Put beaten whites on cake mixture and strew 
almonds over top. Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Custard filling between layers. 



96 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



FRED W. KATH 

1364 Oakland Ave. 
Hardware, Electrical Supplies and Appliances 

Paints, Oils and Varnishes 

Electric Repairing and Tin Work 

GENERAL REPARING 



Telephone Connection 



Telephone Edgewood 70 1236 Oakland Ave. 



Shorewood Express Line 

Local and Long Distance Hauling 

Piano and Furniture Moving 



L. M. Bermel Milwaukee, Wis. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 97 

Blitz Torte— -No. 3. 

4 oz. sugar 4 T. milk 

4 oz. butter 4 oz. flour 

4 eggs 1 t. baking powder 

Mix the ingredients well. Beat the whites of the eggs. 
Add one cup of sugar and spread on dough. Place blanched 
almonds on top and bake twenty minutes to one-half hour. 
Bake in two layers and fill with boiled custard. 

Blitz Torte— No. 4. 

y 2 c. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

34 c. butter 1 t. vanilla 

4 eggs y 2 c. sugar 

3 T. milk 34 lb. almonds 
y 2 c. flour 

Spread a mixture of the sugar, butter, yolks of the eggs, 
milk, flour, baking powder, and vanilla on the bottom of the 
pan. Then put on one-half cup sugar, whites of the eggs 
whipped stiff, and the almonds. Bake in a moderate oven, 
oven. 

Filling. 



1 c sour cream 
1 T. corn starch 


3 T. sugar 
1 t. vanilla 


1 egg 


Brown Cake. 


3 c. flour 
y 2 c. butter 


1 c. currants 
Allspice 


2 eggs 


Cinnamon 


1 c. raisins 
y 2 c. sugar 
1 c. sour milk 


1 lemon 

1 c. molasses 

1 t. saleratus 



Brown Form Cake. 

3 eggs 1 c. raisins 

1 lb. dark brown sugar 10c citron 

Butter, size of an egg 1 t. allspice 

1 c. milk 1 t. cloves 

1 t. nutmeg 1 t. cinnamon 

3 t. baking powder Flour enough to stiffen 



98 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Butter, Egg and Milkless Cake. 

1 c. brown sugar 2 T. lard 

1 c. (or more) seeded raisins Pinch of salt 

y 2 t. cinnamon Little nutmeg 

34 t. cloves 2 c. flour 

1 t. baking soda y 2 t. baking powder 

1 c. water 

Put sugar, raisins, water and lard in a sauce pan. Add 
the salt, nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves. Boil all together for 
three minutes, let cool. Add the baking soda dissolved in a 
little warm water. Add the flour, sifted with the baking 
powder. Bake in loaf in moderate oven. 









Cheap Sponge 


Cake. 


3 eggfs 




2 c. 


flour (scant) 


1 c. 


sugar 




2 t. 


baking powder 


y 2 1 


. salt 




Flavoring 


1 c. 


boiling 


water 







Beat eggs and sugar together, then add the other 
ingredients in the order given. 

Carrot Torte. 
2 c. boiled mashed carrots 2 T. flour 
2 c. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

1 lemon, juice and rind 4 eggs, beaten, whites last 

2 T. cornstarch 

Baked in two layers. 

Filling. 
Chopped pineapple and whipped cream inside, and plain 
whipped cream on top. 

Bread Torte. 

2 c. sugar 1 grated lemon rind 
& eggs 3 c, grated rye bread 
1 c. almonds (chopped) 2 t. baking powder 

Stir sugar, eggs, and lemon to cream. Add almonds, 
bread, and whites of eggs, well beaten. Stir again. Very 
good. 

Filling. 
1 slate chocolate 3 T. water 

3 egg yolks 1 c. sugar 
Butter, size of an egg Boil. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 99 









Cheap Devil's 


Food. 










1 
1 
1 

2 
3 


T. butter 
T. lard 

egg 

c. flour 
T. cocoa 






1 c 
1 c. 
1 i. 
1 t. 


sugar 
sour milk 
soda 
vanilla 








Dissolve soda 
sugar. 


in 


a little water 


. Mix 


the 


cocoa with 


the 


2 
1 


egg whites 
c. powdered 


sugar 


Frosting 

1 t. 

2 sq 


vanilla 
uares o 


f bi 


tter 


chocolate 



Melt chocolate over hot water. 

Caramel Cake. 

1 c. sugar Piece of butter size of egg 
2/3 c. milk 3 eggs 

\y$ c. flour 2 t. baking powder 

Bake in two large layers. 

Filling for Caramel Cake. 

2 c. brown sugar 3 T. milk or cream 
Small pieces of butter Pinch cream tartar 

Boil just five minutes and flavor with vanilla. Beat well 
while it cools. 

Cheese Cake. 

1 c. sugar Grated rind and juice of 1 

3 eggs lemon 

2 T. flour 1 pt. sweet milk 
1 lb. cottage cheese ^ c. currants 

Beat the sugar and the yolks of the eggs until light. Add 
the flour, grated rind and juice of the lemon, and the cottage 
cheese. Beat well together and stir in the sweet milk. Lastly, 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in 
deep pan lined with pie crust. Currants may be added over 
top before baking. Bake as you would custard pie. Very 
good. 



100 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



DRAKE BROS. CO. 



Wholesale and Retail Druggists 

Importers of 

PURE OLIVE OIL 

Your Phone Orders 
Promptly Delivered 

Telephone East Water and 

Broadway 123 Michigan Street 



A BLEND FOR SHOREWOOD CUPS 
VAN ALSTINE'S 

Pride Coffee 

SHOREWOOD GROCERY 

1325-1327 Downer Ave. Phones, Edgewood 145-146 

SERVICE QUALITY 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 101 

Cheese Cake. 

2 lb.cottage cheese 1 c. milk or cream 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 T. vanilla 

1 T. flour Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

\y 2 c. sugar 

Stir cottage cheese until smooth. Take either pie crust 
or coffee-cake dough. 

Cheese Torte. 
1 lb. zwieback, grated * 4 eggs 

1 c. sugar 1 c. sugar 

1 t. cinnamon y 2 pt. sweet cream 
54 c. melted butter Vanilla to taste 

2 lb. cottage cheese 

To make crust, mix zwieback, sugar, cinnamon and butter. 
Take out one cup of this mixture for top of cake, add cottage 
cheese and stir until very smooth. Then add the eggs, sugar, 
cream and vanilla, spread over crust and bake. 

Chocolate Cake. 
1 c. white sugar 2 c. flour 

1 c. brown sugar 2 t. baking powder 

4 eggs 1 c. grated bitter chocolate 
1 c. butter 1 c. coffee 

Beat the eggs separately. Boil the coffee, sugar and the 
chocolate and let cool. Bake in layers and fill with custard or 
chocolate filling. 

Frosting. 
I 1 /?. T. butter 1 c. confectioner's sugar 

\y 2 T. chocolate 

Chocolate Nut Cake. 
\y 2 c. sugar 4 eggs, beaten, added, 1 

J / 2 c. butter at a time 

y 2 c. milk, to melt y 2 bar l 1 /?. c. flour 

chocolate 2 t. baking powder 

y 2 c. chopped walnuts 
Bake in spring form. 

Chocolate Frosting. 
One-half bar bitter chocolate, a little milk and a piece of 
butter size of an egg. Melt all together, add powdered sugar 
and a little cream. Vanilla flavor. 



102 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Cocoa Cake. 

1 c. sugar 1 t. vanilla 

y 2 c. cocoa \y 2 c. flour 

1 c. sour milk 1 t. baking soda (not heaping) 

4 T. melted butter A pinch of salt 

Add a little more flour if not stiff enough. 



Cornstarch Cake. 

1 c. sugar 2 c. flour 

Piece of butter, size of an egg 1 T. cornstarch 
Piece of lard, size of an egg 2 t. baking powder 
Pinch of salt 1 c. milk 

Vanilla 

This cake does not require eggs and is delicious. 



Cottage Cheese Torte. 

10 large zwieback (grated) 2 c. sugar 

% c. melted butter 3 eggs 

1 T. cinnamon 2 lb. cottage cheese 

1 c. sugar 1 T. flour 

Lemon or vanilla extract y 2 pt. cream 

Spread a mixture of the zwieback, butter, cinnamon and 
one cup of sugar in spring form very carefully. Then pour 
in filling of the remaining ingredients. Sprinkle a little zwie- 
back over this. Bake slowly for an hour. 



Cranberry Torte. 

4 eggs 1 c. dates 

\ l / 2 c. sugar 1 c. flour 

1 c. walnuts 1 t. baking powder 

Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together, add the walnuts 
and dates, chopped, the flour containing baking powder and 
the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in moderate oven. The day 
before serving, cook one quart of cranberries with one cup 
of sugar and when cool spread on cake. Just before serving 
cover the cranberries with whipped cream. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 103 

Crumb Cake. 
2 c. brown sugar 1 egg 

Little salt 1 c. sour milk 

2 c. flour 1 t. soda 
y 2 c. lard 

Cream flour with lard. Take out three-fourths cup of the 
mixture of sugar, salt, flour and lard and put aside. To the 
remaining mixture add the well beaten egg, sour milk, and 
soda. Put into cake tins and then strew the three-fourths 
cupful of mixture over the top of the dough. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. 

Date Cake — No. 1. 
1 c. sugar 1 t. vanilla 

1 lb. dates , y 2 t. salt 

3 t. baking powder Enough flour to mix to a stiff 
3 eggs dough 

Bake in flat tin ; slow oven. When cold, cut into small 
squares and roll in powdered sugar. Will keep a long time 
when placed in stone jar. 

Date Cake — No. 2. 

l/ 2 c. sugar Yz t. almond extract 

y 2 c. butter 1 c. milk 

Yolks of 4 eggs y 2 lb. chopped dates 

34 t. salt Enough flour to slightly stiffen 

1 t. vanilla 2 t. baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar and add other ingredients. 

Date Torte. 

6 eggs, beaten well y 2 lb. dates, cut fine 

1 c. sifted sugar iy 2 t. baking powder 

y 2 lb. grated almonds, not 2 powdered Uneeda Biscuits 
blanched 

Bake in loaf or in layers and fill with custard. 

Delicate Cake. 

1 c. sugar y 2 t. lemon extract 

y 2 c. butter y 2 t. vanilla 

y 2 c. milk p 2 c. flour 

3 eggs 1 t. baking powder 

Bake in two layers and frost. Raisins may also be added 
and the cake baked in loaf form, if preferred. 



104 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



I^RAN K & M OTTE RAM CO. - cJ EW ELE RSj 



t \w 



i 



t IV SHOPPING HERE J\ 

^ ej? J^^ ^^gAST WATER e,*0£0 ^T<lh 4 O 



"W£ FEATURE GOOD LOOKING THINGS 



Milwaukee Ice Machine 




ALWAYS DEPENDABLE 



Half Ton to Ten Ton 



Write for 
Catalogue 



MILWAUKEE STEAM APLLIANCE CO. 



Tel. West Allis 126 



West Allis, Wis. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 105 

Devil's Food. 

Devil's Food Cake— No. 1. 

y 2 lb. Baker's bitter chocolate 1 egg yolk 

y 2 c. sweet milk y 2 c. sugar 

y 2 c. butter 1 t. vanilla 

1 c. sugar 3 egg whites, beaten 

2 t. baking powder 2 c. flour 

Boil chocolate, milk, yolk of the egg and the sugar to a 
custard. When cool, add the vanilla and other ingredients. 
When baked in a loaf add one cup of nuts. 

Devil's Food Cake— No. 2. 

1 c. sugar 1 iarge c. flour 

% c. butter 1 t. soda 

1 egg 1 t. vanilla 

% c. sour milk 2 squares chocolate 

Dissolve chocolate in one-half cup boiling water. 

Devil's Food Cake— No. 3. 

2 square grated chocolate 1 level t. soda, mixed with 

chocolate 

Pour one-half cup boiling water over chocolate and let 
stand until other ingredients are mixed. 

\y 2 c. sugar y 2 c. sour milk 

y 2 c. butter 1 level t. baking powder 

2 eggs 2 c. flour 

Flavor with vanilla. Bake in loaf. 

Egg Torte. 

6 eggs 1 pk. dates 

1 c. sugar 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

y 2 c. bread crumbs 1 t. vanilla 

1 t. baking powder 

Beat yolks, add sugar and beat. Add baking powder and 
crumbs, then dates cut in small pieces and nuts, then whites 
of eggs beaten stiff and vanilla. Bake in coffee cake pan 
forty minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 



106 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Eggless Cake. 

y 2 c. butter 1 t. grated nutmeg 

\y 2 c. sugar y 2 t. cinnamon 

1 c. sour milk 3 level c. sifted flour 

1 c. raisins, chopped fine and 1 t. soda 
well floured 

Cream butter and sugar, add sour milk, spices, raisins, 
flour, and soda. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Ever Best Cake. 

1 c. sugar 1 egg 

1 T. butter l J / 2 c. flour 

Over 1 cup of chopped dates sprinkle 1 teapsoon of soda. 
Over this pour 1 cup of hot water. Cream butter, add sugar 
and egg, and date mixture. 
1 t. vanilla y 2 c. nuts, chopped 

Add flour. 

Farina Cake. 

1 c. granulated sugar 1 t. cream of tartar 

y 2 c. powdered sugar y 2 t. soda 

1 c. farina \y 2 c. rolled and sifted oven 

24 c. ground walnuts dried bread crumbs 

6 eggs 

Beat yolks, add the sifted sugar, and beat five minutes. 
Whip the whites with cream of tartar until stiff; add this to 
yolks and whip two minutes. Mix all dry ingredients, add to 
the eggs and beat well. Bake in two or three layers. Serve 
with whipped cream and sprinkle top with chopped walnuts. 

Frozen Angel Food. 

5 egg whites 1 scant c. sugar 

1 c. heavy cream 1 t. vanilla 

First beat whites until stiff, adding half the sugar, beating 
gradually. Then beat cream, adding the rest of the sugar 
gradually. Then mix eggs and cream together lightly. Add 
flavoring and turn into loaf cake tin. Have ready a box of 
snow and salt mixed, and pack the mixture into this. Be sure 
you have a tight cover on the tin to prevent the snow and 
salt from falling in. Let stand five hours and serve as brick 
ice cream. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 107 

Frozen Coffee Cake. 

1 lb. flour 1 t. salt 

y 2 lb. shortening IT. sugar 

Mix like pie crust. Add : 
3 egg yolks lc yeast 

1 c. milk 

Set in cool place over night. In morning roll out on 
board. Beat whites of 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, spread over rolled 
dough. Add raisins, nuts and cinnamon. Let raise in warm 
place. 







Fruit 


: Cake. 


Y A lb. butter 






2 lb. currants 


1 lb. brown sugar 




1 lb. dates 


5 eggs 






y 2 lb. citron 


1 c. sour milk 


or buttermilk 


y 2 lb. candied cherries 


1 t. soda 






y 2 lb. candied pineapple 


1 t. cinnamon 






1 lb. walnuts 


1 t. nutmeg 






1 lb. brazil nuts 


1 t. allspice 






2 wine glasses brandy 


2 lb. raisins 






1 lb. flour 


Bake two 


hours. 







German Coffee Cake. 

y 2 c. sugar 1/3 c. butter 

1 c. milk y 2 t. salt 

Heat these ingredients, then let cool while you dissolve 
one cent yeast in one-half cup lukewarm water. Beat all 
together with two eggs and three heaping cups of flour. 
Flavor with grated rind of lemon. Set in evening. 



Good Date Cake. 

1 lb. dates, chopped 4 eggs, well beaten 

1 lb. walnuts, coarsely 4 T. flour 

chopped 1 t. baking powder 
1 c. powdered sugar 

Serve with whipped cream. 



108 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Silver Buckle Coffee 

Milwaukee's Favorite 

E. R. GODFREY & SON CO. 
ALBERT C. BIERSACH 

Dealer in and Importer of 

BOOKS, PERIODICALS. FINE STATIONERY, FOUNTAIN 
PENS AND BLANK BOOKS 

CONGRATULATION CARDS for all occasions 

315 Third St., Opp. Wm. Steinmeyer Co. Phone Grand 4682 



Telephone Grand 4570 Pub^Lforary 

STEINFUHR & KRIVANEK 
TAILORS 

801 Grand Avenue Milwaukee 



L. SHAPIRO 

Dealer in 

GROCERIES, FRUITS AND 
VEGETABLES 

1382 Oakland Edgewood 142 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 109 

Graham Cake — No. 1. 

1 c. sugar 17 graham crackers 

y 2 c. butter \y 2 t. baking powder 

Y^ c. milk 3 T. confectioner's sugar 

y 2 c. flour 1 t. vanilla 

3 eggs, well beaten 2 T. melted butter 

Roll graham crackers fine and put through flour sieve. 
Mix all well. Make a frosting of the confectioner's sugar, 
melted butter and vanilla. Add a little milk to make smooth 
enough to spread on top layer. Sprinkle frosting with chopped 
riuts. Bake in two layers. 

Graham Cake — No. 2. 

1 c. sugar 2y?. c. graham crackers, rolled 
y 2 c. butter 1 t. baking powder 

2 eggs 1 t. vanilla 
24 c. milk 

Bake in two layers. 

Graham Cracker Cake — No. 3. 

\y T. butter \y> c. flour 

iy 2 c. sugar \y 2 c. rolled graham crackers 

3 eggs (16 to 18 crackers) 
1 c. milk 2 t. baking powder 

Beat dough well and bake in three layers. 
Filling. 

4 T. sweet cream y 2 c. butter 
3 c. confectioner's sugar 1 t. vanilla 

Stir creamy and put between layers and on top of cake. 

Graham Cracker Torte — No. 4. 

1 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

3 eggs (well beaten) 2 t. baking powder 

1 c. sweet milk 27 graham crackers 
y 2 c. butter 

Bake in layers and spread with any tart jelly. Put 
together with whipped cream. 



110 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Gugelhopf. 

y 2 lb. butter y> pt. milk 

Y\ lb. sugar 1 t. salt 

Grated rind of 1 lemon 2c yeast 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 lb. flour 

Beat well (herein lies the success of the cake). Grease- 
tin well and sprinkle with broken almonds. Put dough into- 
tin and let rise until it reaches the top. Bake in slow oven- 



Hazelnut Cake. 



y lb. sugar 


iy c. grated hazelnuts 


7 eggs 


7 T. cracker meal 


Rind of 1 orange 


1 t. baking powder 


Juice of y 2 lemon 


2 T. brandy 



Stir sugar and yolks of the eggs to a cream. Then add 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Stir very little and slowly- 
Bake in loaf about fifty minutes, or in layers. 



Kaiser Torte. 

y c. butter 2 c. and 2 T. flour 

1 c. sugar 2y t. baking powder 

3 eggs 1 c. raisins 

Rind of a lemon 1 c. walnuts (cut in pieces) 

y c. milk 

Bake and cover with butter frosting. 



Krummel Torte. 

5 eggs 3 t. baking powder 

2 c. sugar 1 lb. English walnuts 

10 T. rolled soda crackers y lb. dates 

Beat yolks, add sugar, beaten whites, crackers mixed with 
baking powder, lastly nuts and dates cut fine. Bake in shallow 
pans twenty minutes in hot oven. Serve with whipped cream- 
This will serve sixteen people. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 111 

Lady-finger or Ice-Box Cake. 

y 2 lb. butter 3 eggs 

1 c. powdered sugar Rind and juice of 1 lemon 

4 doz. lady-fingers Juice of 2 oranges 

Work butter with hands for fifteen minutes. Add pow- 
dered sugar and stir again. Add the eggs, one at a time. 
Then add the juice and rind of lemon and oranges. Make a 
fence of lady-fingers by separating them, putting the smooth 
side toward the outside of the spring form. Then make a 
layer of lady-fingers, then a layer of dough, and so on until 
all is used. 

Lady-finger Torte. 

6 eggs, beaten separately 6 lady-fingers 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 t. baking powder 

1 c. grated almonds 

Measure almonds before grating. Use seven or eight 
lady-fingers if they are small. Dry them and brown in oven. 
Then roll and add the baking powder. Add beaten whites of 
the eggs last. Bake in three layers. 

Filling. 
1 T. cream Powdered sugar 

Butter, size of an egg 

Use enough powdered sugar to make a creamy filling. 

Minute Cake. 

1 c. sugar Pinch of salt 
\y 2 c. flour 2 eggs 

2 t. baking powder 3 T. melted butter 

Sift the sugar, flour, baking powder, and salt. Break the 
eggs into a cup and fill with milk. Flavor with lemon. Add 
the melted butter. Beat all together with an egg beater until 
smooth. Bake in quick oven. Good for layer cake. 

Molasses Cake. 

1 egg 1 t. soda in 

y 2 c. boiling water 
2y 2 c. flour 
Flavor to taste 

y 2 c. hickory nuts 



112 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



OAKLAND FOOD MARKET 

KOEHLER & PREISS, Props. 
Phone Edgewood 2195 1039 Oakland Ave. 

MEAT MARKET 

We Carry a Full Line of 

FRESH CUT MEATS 

GROCERIES AND DELICATESSEN 

Home Made Sausage Meat 

BAKED HAM BAKERY WE DELIVER 



Telephone Broadway 2676 

CHAS. F. SCHLUETER 
CUSTOM TAILOR 

Room 402 Iron Block MILWAUKEE, WIS. 



SHOREWOOD SPECIALTY SHOP 

1314 Maryland Ave., Cor. Maryland Ave. and Atwater Road 

Complete Line of Notions and Baby Goods 

Hand-Made Laces and Madeira 

Cotton and Silk Negligee and Kimonas 

Silk and Cotton Underwear 

Large Assortment of Fancy Handkerchiefs 

Phoenix Hosiery 

Our Prices are as Reasonable as the Down-town Stores 

Your esteemed patronage is kindly solieiteil 



We specialize in HIGH GRADE Watches, Diamonds, 
and Diamond Mountings. 

No Inferior Goods Sold Special Designs on Request 

J. SAUERMANN 

Official Watch Inspector C. & N. W. R. R. 

166 Wisconsin Street Milwaukee, Wis. 

Phone Broadway 2663 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 113 

Molasses Nut Cake. 

1 c. sugar 3 eggs 

y 2 scant c. butter 4 T. molasses 

1 c. milk 1 t. cloves 

2 c. flour 1 t. cinnamon 

1 c. raisins 1 c. walnuts 

2 t. baking powder 

Napf Kuchen. 

24 c. sugar 5 eggs 

34 lb. butter Salt 

1 c. milk Rind of 1 lemon 

1 lb. flour 2c yeast 
24 c. raisins 

Napfkuchen with Baking Powder. 

y 2 c. butter 1 c. milk 

\y> c. sugar 3 c. flour 

4 eggs y 2 lb. raisins 

2 l. baking powder Lemon rind 

Nut Cake. 

y 2 lb. butter 1 t. cream of tartar, in flour 

1 c. sugar y 2 t. soda, in milk 

3 tgg whites l}/ 2 c. flour 

y 2 c. milk 1 c. chopped nuts 

Bake in shallow pan and cut into squares. 

Orange Cake. 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 t. baking powder 

6 eggs, beaten separately Juice of 1 orange 

1 c. almonds Rind of 2 oranges 

1 c. zwieback 

Ottelo Torte. 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 c. flour 

5 eggs, beaten separately 1 t. baking powder 

Bake in two layers. 

Filling. 
1 c. cream or milk 1 T. cornstarch 

3 T. sugar 1 egg 

Flavor to taste. When cool, add the beaten white of the 
esfjj;. Use chocolate frosting-. 



114 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Poppy Seed Cake — No. 1. 

1 c. poppy seed 2 c. flour 

\y 2 c. milk 2 t. baking powder 

ly 2 c. sugar 4 whites of eggs, beaten 

y 2 c. butter 1 t. vanilla 

Grind poppy seed. Heat one-half of the milk, pour over 
poppy seed, let stand over night. Cream butter and sugar and 
add poppy seed mixture. Add flour and baking powder 
mixed, and last, the beaten whites. Place in a well greased 
spring form and bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. When 
cold cover with chocolate butter frosting or with fudge 
frosting. 

Poppy Seed Cake — No. 2. 

1 heaping c. sugar \y 2 c. flour 

y 2 c. butter 2 t. baking powder 

3 eggs J /2 c. poppy seed 

y 2 c. milk 

Bake in three layers and fill with custard filling. Frost 
with the following: 

Frosting. 

1 c. confectioner's sugar 2 egg yolks 

1 T. butter Vanilla 

Stir smooth, flavor with vanilla and spread on cake. 



Potato Torte. 

y 2 c. butter 2 c. sugar 

1 t. cinnamon 1 t. allspice 

y 2 t. cloves y 2 t. ginger 

A little nutmeg 5 eggs 

y^ lb. chopped almonds 1 cake sweet chocolate 

1 c. grated boiled potatoes 1 T. vanilla 

1 t. saleratus I c. sour milk 

2 c. flour 

Cream the butter with the sugar, then add the eggs, add 
sour milk and soda and spices, add the flour, chocolate and 
potatoes and almonds and vanilla. Bake one hour. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 11 







Potato Cake. 


1 c. butter 




4 eggs [ i 


1 c. mashed 


potatoes 


1/3 c. chocolate 


y 2 c. milk 




y 2 t. allspice 


y 2 t. cloves 




y 2 t. cinnamon 


2Y-2 c. flour 




4 t. baking powder 


1 t. vanilla 




1 c. nut meats 


2 c. sugar 







Cream butter and sugar and add the yolks of eggs, beaten 
lightly. Add in order, the potatoes, chocolate, milk, spices, 
vanilla, nuts, and the baking powder sifted into the flour. 
Lastly, add the beaten egg whites. Bake either in loaf or 
laver. 

Puff Paste Cake. 
2 large c. flour 1 egg 

1 c. butter 1 whole eggshell of cold water 

Prepare the above mixture in the evening, keeping it in 
a cool place. The next morning divide into six parts, roll 
out into thin sheets, prick with a fork and bake in jelly cake 
tins in a moderate oven. When cold, cover first sheet with 
custard filling, the second with red currant jelly, and continue 
alternating until the six sheets have been used, placing small 
dots of the jelly on the upper sheet. 

Quick Coffee Cake. 
1 egg 1 c. milk (scant) 

1 c. sugar (scant) Salt 

1 T. butter Lemon 
iy 4 c. flour Vanilla 

2 t. baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar. Add egg and milk. Sift flour, 
salt, and baking powder together and put in cinnamon. Sugar 
and place almonds on the top before baking. 

Railroad Cake. 

1 c. sugar 2 t. baking powder 
4 T. melted butter 2 c. flour 

2 eggs Flavor to taste 
y 2 c. sweet milk 

Put all together, stir five minutes and bake in loaf or 
layers. 



116 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Where Economy Rules 

ATWATER CASH MARKET 

WM. TEMKIN, Prop. 

Phone Edgewood 83 461 Atwater Road 

If you want the Best — we have it 

Choice Meats, Fresh , Fruits and Vegetables 

Come ami Save the Big Difference 



RUSSELLA SCOTT ATKINSON 

Teacher of Piano — Shorewood 
1297 Frederick Ave. Edgewood 1872 



PERKINS HARDWARE 

Where Service and Courtesy Prevail 

Phone Edgewood 1875 463 Atwater Road 

SHOREWOOD, WIS. 

Repairing of Tinware and Electrical Appliances 

Stoves and Furnaces 

Lawn Mowers and Skates Sharpened 



Telephone Hanover 723 

C. M. LARSON 

Fluff Rug and Rag Carpet Weaving 
Carpet Cleaning and Upholstering 

624 National Ave. Milwaukee, Wis. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 117 

Raisin Cake. 

1 egg 1 t. soda 

1 c. sugar 2 c. flour 

y 2 c. butter (scant) y 2 t. baking powder 

1 c. chopped raisins y 2 c. chopped walnuts 

1 c. boiling water 

Dissolve soda in boiling water and pour over raisins. Let 
cool before adding other ingredients. Sift flour three times 
with baking powder. Bake in layers and put together with 
boiled frosting. 

Ryebread Torte. 

12 egg yolks 6 oz. rye bread crumbs 

10 egg whites Rind of 1 lemon 

24 lb. sugar 1 t. cinnamon 

6 oz. almonds (5 oz. sweet y 2 t. cloves 
and 1 oz. bitter) 

Beat the whites stiff, add sugar and beat five minutes 
longer. Beat yolks and fold into whites. Fold in bread 
crumbs, add the lemon rind and the spices. 

Sand Torte. 

1 lb. butter 8 eggs 

1 lb. powdered sugar Rind of 1 lemon 

1 box cornstarch 

Melt butter and add sugar. Beat until thick. Stir in one 
egg yolk and a little cornstarch at a time until all is used. 
Then add egg whites beaten stiff and grated lemon rind. Beat 
all one hour. Bake one and a quarter hours in a slow oven, 
turning off heat entirely the last one-quarter of an hour. 

Simple Sponge Cake. 

4 eggs, well beaten 2 c. flour 

2 c. sugar, beat together 1 c. boiling water 
Pinch of salt Lemon or vanilla 

Beat as each ingredient is added. Lastly, add the water 
slowly, while beating. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Bake 
slowlv one-half hour. 



118 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



1 c. sugar 

2 T. butter 
y 2 c. water 
\y 2 c. flour 



Snow Cake. 



\y 2 t. baking powder 
3 egg whites 
Flavor to taste 



Sour Milk Apple Cake. 



J / 2 t. soda 

1 c. sour milk 

About 2 c. flour 



y 2 c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs, well beaten 
A little cinnamon 

Dissolve soda in the sour milk. Use enough flour to make 
a thin batter. Spread in long tin and cover with sliced apples. 
Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon over apples. Serve hot as 
dessert, using cream, if preferred. 



1 c. sugar 

1 T. butter 

1 egg 

y 2 c. raisins 

1^4 to 2 c. flour 

Lemon rind 

1 c. sour milk 



Spice Cake. 

1 t. soda, dissolved in a little 

vinegar 
y 2 t. cloves 
Little nutmeg 
Little chocolate, melted 
1 t. vanilla 



Sponge Cake. 



4 eggs, beaten separately 

1 c. sugar 

\y 2 t. cornstarch 

1 t. lemon extract 



1 scant c. flour 

3 T. cold water 

1 level t. baking powder 

y A t. salt 



Beat the yolks of the eggs until thick and gradually add 
the sugar. Beat two minutes and add the water. Sift together 
thoroughly the cornstarch, flour, baking powder, and salt, and 
add the first mixture, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, and 
the lemon extract. Bake in a buttered angel-cake pan, forty- 
five minutes, or shallow cake pan thirty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 119 

Sunshine Cake — No. 1. 

6 large eggs 1 t. vanilla 

1 c. granulated sugar y^ t. cream of tartar 

1 c. flour 

Beat the whites of the eggs until dry, then add a pinch of 
salt and the cream of tartar. Add the sugar and beat five 
minutes longer. Beat yolks until lemon color and fold into 
whites. Sift the flour four times and fold in a little at a time. 
Put into a moderate oven, turn off one burner after cake has 
been in the oven twenty minutes. Continue baking thirty 
minutes longer. 

Sunshine Cake — No. 2. 

7 egg whites 2/3 c. flour 

5 egg yolks 1/3 t. cream of tartar 

1 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Beat Avhites and while beating add cream of tartar. Con- 
tinue beating until very stiff. Stir in sugar lightly, next the 
beaten yolks, and lastly, salt and flour. 

Velvet Sponge Cake. 

2 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

6 eggs 2y 2 c. flour 

1 c. boiling water 2 t. baking powder 

Beat sugar and yolks of the eggs fifteen minutes. Stir 
in boiling water, salt, flour, baking powder, three egg whites 
and flavor. Use remaining egg whites for frosting. Bake 
in loaf in slow oven. 

Walnut Torte. 

9 eggs 1 c. crackers, rolled 

1 c. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

1 c. walnuts, broken Rind and little juice of 1 lemon 

Beat yolks of eggs and sugar one-half hour, add other 
ingredients. Beat whites of eggs to a froth and fold in. Bake 
in two layers. Use boiled custard for filling. 



120 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



OAKLAND AVENUE MARKET 

A. J. SCHIEBLE, Prop. 

CHOICE MEATS 

at Reasonable Prices 

POULTRY AND FISH 

Lakeside 2045 



WHEN YOU PREPARE FOR THE 
PARTY YOUR JEWELRY 

should be in accordance with your high ideals in 
cooking — at this store you gain distinction in your 
Jewelry, and yet don't have to pay high prices — 

that's 
30 Years A , • ^ , Cor. 4th St. 

in business ArCHie Tegtmeyei* Grand Ave. 



Stylish Hats for the whole year 
WERNER'S FINE MILLINERY 

1523 Fond du Lac Ave. 

Special Designs in Bridal Veilings 
Telephone Kilbourn 1097 Prices Reasonable 



Electricity Makes Housework Easy 

WE ARE AT YOUR SERVICE 

Your Friends Will Recommend 

PIEPKORN ELECTRIC CO. 

304 West Water St. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 121 

FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 

Boiled Icing. 

1 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

Boil until mixture threads. 

Caramel Frosting. 

y± c. brown or maple sugar Y\ c. milk or cream 
Y\ c. butter 

Boil like candy. When it strings, beat and spread on 
cake, adding vanilla. 

Frosting. 

1 c. confectioner's sugar 1 t. vanilla 

1 T. butter Chocolate 

Use enough chocolate to make a nice brown cream. 

Fruit Frosting. 

2 egg whites 2 T. lemon juice 

1 grated apple 1/3 c. powdered sugar 

Put all in large bowl and beat with Dover egg beater until 
stiff. Fruit may be used, such as berries, pineapple, etc., 
instead of apple, or frosting may be colored with fruit paste. 

Fudge Frosting. 

1 c. sugar 2 T. butter 
1/3 c. milk 1 t. vanilla 

2 squares of chocolate 

Boil sugar, milk, and chocolate for four minutes. Add 
the butter and cook four minutes longer. Add the vanilla 
and beat until thick enough to spread. 

Strawberry Frosting. 

White of 1 egg 5 T. canned strawberries or 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 c. mashed strawberries 

To the white of one egg, add the powdered sugar, to 
which add the strawberries. Beat all together with a wire 
egg beater for one-half hour. The white of the egg must not 
be beaten first, but beaten with the cup of sugar. 



122 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Apple and Lemon Filling. 

Juice and grated rind of 1 large, sour apple, grated 

1 lemon 1 c. sugar 

Boil together five minutes and let it cool. It is then ready 
for use. 

Butternut Filling. 

1 c. butternut meats, 2 eggs 

chopped fine 2 T. sugar 

1 c. sour cream 

Mix thoroughly and spread between layers of cake. 

Walnut Filling. 

y 2 c. milk y* lb. walnuts, chopped 

2 c. sugar 

Boil milk and sugar steadily for five minutes, take from 
fire and add nuts. Beat until it spreads. 

Filling. 
y c. sugar 3 egg yolks 

1 heaping T. flour Vanilla 

1 c. milk 

Boil until thick. Cool and flavor with vanilla. 

Butter Filling. 

\y 2 c. confectioner's sugar 1 T. cream 
1 T. butter 1 egg yolk 

1 t. vanilla 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add vanilla, cream and 
the yolk of the egg. Beat until smooth and spread between 
and on top of cake. Sprinkle finely chopped almonds on top, 
if desired. 

Filling for Layer Cake. 

Whites of 2 eggs 1 c. hickory nuts 

1 c. powdered sugar y 2 c. stoned raisins 

2 t. water 1 t. vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it threads, then pour in whites 
and cook well, add raisins, hickory nuts and vanilla.. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 123 

COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 

Almond Cookies. 

y 2 lb. butter 3 t. baking powder 

1 lb. brown sugar 4 eggs 

y 2 cake sweet chocolate, 1 t. cinnamon 

grated 1 t. cloves 

1 c. almonds, chopped fine 2 c. flour 

Bake in two coffee cake tins in slow oven. Frost with 
white boiled frosting. When cold, cut in pieces about one 
inch wide and three inches longf. 



Almond Cookies — No. 2. 

^2 lb. butter 2 eggs 

]/ 2 lb. sugar 1 c. blanched almonds, 

1^4 lb. flour or half cornstarch chopped fine 

1 large t. baking powder 

Mix with a little milk into a soft dough to roll out. 



Almond Cookies — No. 3. 

1 c. white sugar 2 c. butter 

1 c. brown sugar 4 scant c. flour 

1 c. blanched almonds 1 dessert spoon soda 

3 eggs 1 t. cinnamon 

Cream the butter and sugar, then drop the eggs in sep- 
arately.- Dissolve the soda in one teaspoon warm water and 
add cinnamon. Then add the chopped almonds and flour and 
stir until smooth. Let stand over night in a cold place. 
Cut and bake in hot oven until a delicate brown. These will 
keep a long time. 

Almond Kisses. 

4 egg whites, beaten stiff 24 lb- chopped almonds 
1 lb. confectioner's sugar 1 t. cinnamon 

Beat eggs and sugar, add almonds and cinnamon. Drop 
on well buttered tins and bake twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. 



124 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



For Baking, Cooking and Preserving 
You Need the BEST 

We carry a complete assortment of 
Flavoring Extract, Vegetable Colors and Spices 

Fresh Drugs, Chemicals and Medicines 

DRUSCHKE'S PHARMACY 

Two Phones Southwest Corner 

Edgewood 1500-1501 Oakland and Concord Aves. 



Fancy Torten and School Supplies 

Wedding- Cakes Ice Cream and Candies 

Telephone Edgewood 1475 

SHOREWOOD HOME BAKERY 

C. WOERISHOFER 

425-427 Atwater Road Shorewood, Wis. 

All Our Baking Is Strictly Home Made 
"THE TASTE TELLS" 



Compliments of 

SHOREWOOD PHARMACY 

SHOREWOOD'S 
FIRST DRUG STORE 

Phone Edgewood 722 



N. E. GEARHARD 

MEATS— Highest Grade CHICKENS— Milk Fed 

Fish and Oysters in Season 
Prompt Delivery 

838 DOWNER AVE. Phone Edgewood 240 & 241 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 125 

Almond Squares. 

Mix: 
]/ 2 lb. sugar y 2 lb. almonds, ground 

Take out half of this to sprinkle on top. Add to the 
remaining: 

y 2 lb. butter, creamed • 2 eggs 

y 2 lb. flour, sifted Grated rind of y 2 lemon 

Roll out and cut in squares, brush over with white of egg, 
sprinkle with the sugar and almonds, bake in moderate oven. 

Almond Croquettes. 

2 eggs. y 2 lb. flour 

y 2 t. salt Grated rind of 1 lemon 

y 2 lb. powdered sugar y 2 c. grated chocolate 

y 2 lb. shelled almonds 

Beat the eggs until very light. Add the salt and sugar 
and beat until very foamy. Grind the almonds very fine and 
add to the flour. Add the lemon, and chocolate. Add flour 
and almonds to the first mixture. Mix until smooth. Flour 
board slightly, taking little dought on the board. Roll very 
thin. Sprinkle with sugar on top. Cut into strips one and 
one-half inches wide. Bake in a slow oven until golden brown. 

Anise Cookies. 

3 eggs, well beaten Pinch of salt 

\y 2 c. sugar Rind and juice of small lemon 

\y 2 to 2 c. flour 1 t. anise seed 

1 t. baking powder 

Beat eggs and sugar. Drop on well buttered tins and bake 
until light brown. 

Butter Cookies 

1 lb. butter 3 c. flour 

2 c. sugar 1 t. baking powder 
Yolk of 5 eggs y 2 t. salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and salt, then flour 
and baking powder. Chill dough, roll thin and cut. 



126 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Banana Fritters. 

8 bananas Flour 

1 c. flour 1 T. olive oil 

2 eggs 1 t. baking powder 
2/3 c. cold water 

Cut the bananas into three pieces. Make a batter of the 
flour, the well beaten yolks of the eggs and the cold water 
and add this gradually to the flour, stirring all the time. Add 
the olive oil, the well beaten whites of the eggs and the baking 
powder. Cover the banana with this paste and drop into 
hot fat. When a bright golden color, take out and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. For a sauce, use currant jelly, thinned 
with water. 

Cream Puffs. 

1 c. boiling water y 2 c. of butter 

When boiling stir in 1 cup of flour, heaping. Let it get 
cold, then stir in three unbeaten eggs. Drop on tins and 
bake. It will make fifteen. 

Cream : One cup of milk, Y\ cup of sugar, 1 egg, 3 table- 
spoons of flour. Flavor to taste. Cut the puffs open and put 
cream between. 

Cocoanut Cookies. 

1 c. butter 1 c. grated cocoanut 

2 c. flour 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 1 t. baking powder 



1 egg 



Cocoanut Cookies. 



5 eggs 2 t. baking powder 

2 c. sugar J / 2 lb. cocoanut 

3 c. flour 

Beat eggs to a cream. Mix well and drop from teaspoon 
about two inches apart into buttered tins. 

Cocoanut Kisses. 

2 c. cocoanut 2 level T. flour 

1 c. sugar 2 stiffly beaten whites of eggs 

Drop on butter pans and bake. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 127 



Cocoa Kisses. 

2 egg whites 1*4 c. sugar 

2 T. cocoa y t. cinnamon 

34 lb. almonds, chopped and blanched 

Beat the whites until stiff and gradually add two-thirds 
of the sugar. Continue beating until mixture will hold its 
shape. Fold in the remaining sugar. Drop mixture from tip 
of spoon in small piles one-half inch apart, on greased tins. 
Bake in slow oven with decreasing heat, fifty minutes or un- 
til dry. When done, they do not cling to pan. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts. 

2 eggs 1 t. grated nutmeg 

1J4 c. sugar 1 t. soda 

2 T. melted fat 2 t. baking powder 

y 2 t. salt About 1 qt. flour 
1 c. buttermilk 

Beat eggs, and sugar and shortening. Mix the rest of the 
dry ingredients, combine the two mixtures with the milk. 
Knead slightly, roll into % inch thickness, cut and fry in deep 
hot oil or fat. Dust with powdered sugar. 

Doughnuts. 

1 T. butter y 2 c. sour milk 

1 pinch salt y 2 t. soda 

y 2 c. sugar Flour 

1 egg 

Cream butter and sugar, then add egg. Dissolve soda in 
milk and add flour. Fry in deep lard. 

Potato Doughnuts. 

2 medium sized potatoes 1 c. sour milk 
mashed 3 eggs 

Butter size of an egg, add to 1 1/3 c. sugar 
potatoes while warm y 2 t. salt 

A little grated nutmeg, 4 cups of flour, sifted, with 1 tea- 
spoonful baking soda and 2 teaspoonsful baking powder. 
Handle very lightly and fry in deep fat. 



128 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



LOUIS SCHMITT 

PRACTICAL 
PLUMBER AND GAS FITTER 

741 Oakland Ave. 
Telephone Lakeside 675 Milwaukee, Wis. 




692 Oakland Ave. 



GENERAL 

HARDWARE 

Sheet Metal and 
Furnace Work 

Lakeside 3135 



THE PROGRESS TAILORING CO. 

M. SMITH, Prop. 

Ladies' Artistic Custom Tailoring 

1037 Oakland Ave., Near Edgewood Phone Edgewood 2034 

A really good tailor is a fit person to know. I proudly pro- 
claim I am just your man. When we make your suit or coat 
the suit or coat will fit right — with all the latest designs. We 
believe in treating our customers square. Once your tailor, 
your tailor always. 

We Also Do Cleaning, Pressing and Remodeling 



Lakeside 660 

East Side Floral Co. 

H. E. KOEGLER, Prop. 

468 Farwell Ave. 



FARMS & COUNTRY HOMES 

THEO. RICHTER 

Real Estate 

Phone Grand 1641 

Mortgage Loans 
Insurance Investments 

317-318 BRUMDER BLDG. 
MILWAUKEE, WIS. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 129 

Fruit Cookies No. 1. 

1 c. butter 1 t. cinnamon 

\y 2 c. sugar 34 t. cloves 

1 c. seeded raisins 34 t. nutmeg 

1 c. walnuts 2 eggs 

2 t. baking powder 2 T. milk 
iy 2 c. flour 

Cream butter and sugar and add other ingredients. Roll 
and bake. 

Fruit Cookies No. 2. 

\y 2 c. sugar y 2 c. currants 

3 eggs 1 t. cinnamon 
1 c. butter 1 t. salt 

y 2 c. sour milk 1 t. soda dissolved in milk or 

1 c. chopped nut meats water 

y 2 c. raisins 

Drop in small pieces on greased pans and bake. 

Cornflake Cookies. 

3 egg whites, beaten well Y\ c. nut meats 
1 c. sugar 3 c. cornflakes 

Drop with spoon on butter pans and bake. 

Good Plain Cookies. 

3 T. butter 1 egg 

3 T. lard 2 c. flour 

1 c. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

34 c. milk 2 t. vanilla 



Graham Cookies. 

iy 2 c. brown sugar 1 t. soda 

24 c. shortening 1 t. ginger 

1 egg 1 c. white flour 

Y\ c. sour milk, or buttermilk 1 c. hickory nuts 

Add graham flour enough to roll easily. Sprinkle with 
sugar. 



130 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 





Hermits. 


iy 2 c. brown sugar 
3 eggs 

1 c. chopped nuts 
1 c. chopped raisins 
1 c. chopped dates 


1 t. cloves 

1 t. cinnamon 

1 t. soda, dissolved in 

1 T. molasses 

3 c. flour 



Make into balls the size of a walnut. Put separately, one 
inch apart, into greased tins. Bake in slow oven. 

Hominy Fritters. 

1 c. cold boiled hominy 1 or 2 eggs 

y 2 c. milk 1 ssp. salt 

1 c. flour 1 t. baking powder 

Mix hominy with milk. Add flour, eggs, salt and baking 
powder stirred into a little flour. Fry in deep lard. Drop 
from a spoon and fry until a good brown. Have enough boil- 
ing lard to float the fritters. Very good with syrup. 

Lady Fingers. 

1 c. sugar 54 c - milk 

y 2 c. butter 1 pt. flour 

1 egg 1 t. cream of tartar 

1 t. vanilla J / 2 t. soda 

Cut into strips, cover with sugar, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Luft. 

2 c. flour 1 egg 
Butter, size of an egg Little whiskey 

Add milk enough to make batter to consistency of noodle 
dough. Roll very thin and cut into strips three-fourths of an 
inch wide and about fifteen inches long. Turn twice around 
the hand and fasten edges. Fry in deep fat until delicately 
brown. 

Macaroons. 

4 eggs 1 t. cloves 

1 lb. sugar 1 t. cinnamon 

1 lb. flour 2 t. baking powder 

1 cake sweet chocolate 5 c. nut meats 

5 c. cocoanut 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 131 

Mother Christie Cookies 

3 eggs 1 qt. flour 

2 c. sugar \ J / 2 t. baking powder 
1 c. butter y 2 c. cold water 

Stir butter and sugar together and add other ingredients. 
Use more flour if necessary to make it stiff enough to roll. 
Roll thin and bake in very hot oven. 

Nut Kisses. 

Beat the whites of 4 eggs with a pinch of salt, to a stiff 
froth, and add 

1 c. sugar 3 c. cornflakes 

1 c. broken nut meats 1 t. vanilla 

1 c. shredded cocoanut 

Drop on buttered tins with spoon and bake in a moderate 
oven until a delicate brown. 

Thimble Balls. 
Roll out a sheet of noodle dough and double it. Take a 
thimble and cut out dough. Have boiling fat ready and drop 
dumplings in. Fry until they swell into brown balls. Serve 

^' Oatmeal Cookies — No. 1. 

4 c. oatmeal 1 c. lard 

1 c. molasses 1 t. cinnamon 

S J / 2 c. flour 2 t. soda 

1 c. hot water 1 c. sugar A little salt 

Drop in this about a tablespoonful to a cookie. 

Oatmeal Cookies — No. 2. 
1 c. sugar 1 t. cinnamon , 

1 c. butter 1 large c. Quaker Oats( not 

3 eggs cooked) 
J/2 c. sour milk 1 c. flour 

1 c. chopped walnut meats 1 c. chopped raisins 
y 2 t. soda 

Drop from a spoon. 

Oatmeal Cookies — No. 3. 

94 c. butter 2 eggs 

1 c. sugar 2 c. flour 

1 c. raisins, chopped 2 c. dry, uncooked oatmeal 

3/ 4 t. salt 3 T. milk 



132 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



A. H. PFEIFFER 
Fancy Groceries 



Phone Lakeside 2253 245 Farwell Ave. 



H. C. IM 

Dealer in 

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES 
FLOUR AND FEED 

Phone Edgewood 59 Cor. Atwater Rd. and Oakland Ave. 

E. H. KARRER COMPANY 

246 West Water St., Milwaukee, Wis. 

We can supply your needs in Drugs, Medical Supplies, 

Invalid and Sick-room Utensils, Trusses, Supporters, 

Elastic Stockings, etc. 

MRS. E. L. MAYME ANSLINGER 
SPENSER CORSETIER 

The Only Corset Made to Individual 
Measure, Assuring Perfect Posture 
Also Representive for Spenser Ease 
and Comfort Surgeonial Belt for All 
Abdominal Ailments. 

For Appointment Phone Edgewood 784 

1530 Prospect Ave. Shorewood, Wis. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 133 

Oatmeal Macaroons. 
2/3 c. butter 2 eggs 

1 c. sugar 1 t. vanilla or 1 sq. chocolate 

2 c. oatmeal 1 c. raisins 

1 c. flour 1 c. nut meats 

2 t. baking powder 

Drop in small pieces on greased pans. 

Rock Cookies — No. 1. 

\y 2 c. sugar 1 t. baking soda 

1 scant c. butter 1 t. cinnamon 

\y 2 c. seeded, chopped raisins 3 c. flour 

3 eggs 2 T. sweet milk 1 c. chopped walnuts 

Drop from spoon on buttered tin and bake. 

Rock Cookies — No. 2. 

\y 2 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

1 scant c. butter 1 c. raisins 

3 eggs (well beaten) 1 c. walnuts, chopped fine 

1 t. cinnamon y 2 c. water 

2 c. .flour 2 t. baking powder 

Drop on buttered tins and bake in moderate oven. 

Rose Doughnuts. 

4 c. flour 1 c. sweet milk 

1 c. sugar 2 eggs 

2 t. baking powder 4 T. melted lard 
1 t. vanilla Pinch of salt 

Fry in a mixture of boiling lard and butter. 

Scottish Crisps. 

1 egg 1 c. rolled oats 

y 2 c. sugar 1/3 t. salt 

1 T. melted butter % t. vanilla 

Beat the egg until light. Add gradually sugar, butter, 
oats, salt, and vanilla. Drop mixture by teaspoonfuls on a 
thoroughly greased pan, one inch apart. Spread into shape 
with a cake knife, dipped into cold water. Bake in a moderate 
oven until delicately browned. Remove from pan with a 
cake knife as soon as taken from oven. Chocolate may be used. 
A raisin, also, may be placed on top of each before baking. 



134 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Snow Balls. 

y 2 pt. milk Yz pt. flour 

4 eggs 1 T. butter 

A little salt 

Boil milk, flour and butter. When cool beat in one egg 
at a time until smooth, and drop in deep fat, a spoonful at a 
time. Roll in powder sugar. 

Sugar Hats. 

1 c. butter 1 lb. sugar 

2 T. lard Grated rind of 1 lemon 
4 eggs, yolks */> c. milk 

y 2 lb. chopped or ground 1 t. baking powder 

almonds 

Roll thin and on each cookie place a little teaspoonful of 
the following batter: Whites of four eggs, beaten with one- 
half pound of sugar and chopped almonds. 

Vanilla Horns. 



lb. butter V2 lb. flour 



lb. sugar Grated rind of 1 lemon 

y 2 lb. unpeeled, grated y 2 lb. powdered sugar . 

almonds 2 or 3 t. vanilla 

Cut out, bake to a light brown and roll, immediately after 
baking in a mixture of powdered sugar and vanilla. 

Walnut Rocks. 

2 c. brown sugar 1 t. vanilla 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 t. baking powder 
y 2 c. butter 2 c. flour 

1 t. cinnamon 1 c. raisins 

Pinch of salt 1 c. walnuts 

White Peppernuts. 

1 lb. flour Grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 lb. granulated sugar 1 t. white pepper 

4 eggs 1 T. shortening 

3 oz. citron y 2 c. sweet almonds 

1 t. baking powder 

Sift the sugar well. Stir eggs, sugar, shortening, and 
spices with baking powder. Work well into quantity of flour 
given, then form into marbles. Bake slowly in greased tin. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 135 

DESSERTS. 

Ambrosia. 

Spread in a glass dish, a layer of grated cocoanut and 
sugar, a layer of peeled oranges, sliced, and so on, until the 
dish is rilled, having the top layer of cocoanut. A generous 
allowance of sugar to be used, say one and one-fourth pounds 
to one dozen juicy oranges. 

Bavarian Cream. 

V* pkg- gelatine 5 eggs 

1 qt. milk 1 c. sugar 

Soak the gelatine in the milk until soft. Then boil and 
add the egg yolks and the sugar. Remove from fire and add 
beaten whites. Pour into mold. 

Compote. 

Put apricots in a fruit dish and arrange boiled rice around 
the edges. Pour the syrup of the apricots, which has been 
boiled down, over the apricots. 

Neapolitan Ice Cream 

1 qt. milk 1 qt. cream 

6 egg yolks Sugar to taste 

1 c. sugar Flavoring 

Cook milk, eggs, and sugar like custard. When cold, add 
cream and flavoring. More sugar if needed. Freeze. 

Macaroon Cream. 

1 T. granulated gelatine 3 eggs 

% c. cold water 1/3 c. sugar 

2 c. scalded milk }i t. salt 
2/3 c. powdered macaroons 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Make a custard 
with the egg yolks, sugar, salt, and milk, and pour hot over 
softened gelatine. When gelatine is dissolved, strain into a 
pan. Set in ice water, and add macaroons. Stir until the 
mixture begins to thicken, then add whites of eggs beaten 
stiff. Mold, chill, and serve garnished with macaroons. 



136 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

GEO. P. SOMMERS CO. 
FANCY GROCERIES 

Phones Edgewood 98-99 1307 Prospect Ave. 

SHOREWOOD, WIS. 



Tel. Broadway 2854 Res. Tel. Edgewood 2462 

FRANK F. SCHULTZ 

REAL ESTATE— LOANS— INVESTMENTS 
GENERAL INSURANCE 

517 East Water St. MILWAUKEE 



CORSETS GIRDLES HOSIERY 

LINGERIE BRASSIERES 

Telephone Lincoln 212 

WERNER-BENDINGER 
CORSET SHOP 

Best Attention for All Fittings 
Upper 3rd St., 310 North Ave. MILWAUKEE, WIS. 



John H. Lambrecht 

Dealer in 

PASTEURIZED CREAMERY BUTTER 
AND FRESH EGGS 

2601 North Ave. Phone Kilbourn 1726 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 137 

Orange Mousse. 

Juice of 4 oranges y, pkg. Knox's gelatine 

Rind of 1 orange 1 pt. whipping cream 

2 c. sugar y 2 c. powdered sugar 

y 2 c. chopped nuts Vanilla 

Make a syrup of sugar and a little water, add to juice. 
Dissolve gelatine in one-fourth cup cold water, add one-third 
cup hot water, stir, add to juice, strain, and put into mold. 
Beat whipping cream very stiff, add powdered sugar, flavor 
with vanilla, if desired. Add chopped nuts, put on top of 
juice, cover with waxed paper, close mold, and pack in ice 
to freeze. 

Orange Delight. 

6 oranges 1 c. pineapple 

Slice the oranges. Mix with pineapple, or other suitable 
fruit. Sprinkle generously with sugar and cover with 
whipped cream. 

Pineapple Mousse. 

2 T. Knox gelatine 3 lemons 

1 can sliced pineapples 3 c. cream 

I/2 c. sugar 12 T. water 

Dissolve gelatine in water five minutes. Heat the pine- 
apple, cut into pieces and add the sugar. Pour over gelatine 
and stir well until gelatine is dissolved. Whip the cream and 
add to mixture. Lastly, add the juice of the lemons. Pour 
into mold. Use next day, giving it time to harden. 

Macaroon Dessert. 

1 pt. hot milk 1 c. cold water 

5 yolks 5 beaten whites of eggs 

1 c. sugar y 2 c. wine 

2 T. granulated gelatine % lb. macaroons 

Beat the yolks with the sugar until light. Soak the gela- 
tine in the cold w r ater, add the milk boiling hot. Stir until 
dissolved ; pour this gradually onto the yolks and sugar mix- 
ture, stirring constantly. Place on stove to reheat for about 
two minutes, fold in the beaten whites and pour into mold 
which has been rinsed with the wine and lined with the 
macaroons. Serve with whipped cream. 



138 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Compliments of a Friend. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 139 



SAUCES. 

Apricot Sauce. 

1 c. apricot juice 1 t. cornstarch or flour 

y 2 c. sugar 

Boil all together and strain. Use any kind of fruit juice 
in the same manner. 



Bechamel Sauce. 

3 T. butter y 2 pt. well seasoned stock 

3 level T. flour Parsley 

4 eggs (yolks) y 2 c. cream 

Melt the butter and add the flour. Cook until dry, not 
yellow. Add the stock and put in a little parsley and simmer 
twenty minutes. Add the cream in which the yolks of the 
eggs have been beaten. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

1 can of French mushrooms 4 T. butter 

2 c. stock Salt 

2 T. flour Pepper 

Melt the butter and add the flour. Stir until a dark 
brown, then add stock gradually. When this boils, add the 
liquid from the mushrooms. Season and simmer twenty min- 
utes. Skim off any fat that may rise to the top. Add the 
mushrooms and simmer five minutes longer. Too much cook- 
ing toughens the mushrooms. This sauce may be served with 
any kind of roast or broiled meat. It is especially good with 
beefsteaks. 

Epicurean Sauce. 

1 T. Tarragon vinegar y> c. heavy cream 

2 T. grated horseradish Few grains cayenne pepper 
1 t. English mustard 3 t. mayonnaise dressing 

y 2 t. salt 

Mix the vinegar, horseradish, mustard, salt and cayenne, 
add the cream, beaten stiff, and the mayonnaise dressing. 



140 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Sauce for Cauliflower. 

Boil cauliflower in salted water until done and pour over 
it the following : Stir the yolks of two or three eggs and a 
little flour in some cold meat stock. Add a little of the water 
in which cauliflower was cooked, and a few drops of lemon 
juice. Boil in double boiler until it begins to thicken. Pour 
over the cauliflower. A little grated nutmeg may be added, 
if desired. 

Sauce for Meat Pudding. 

1 T. butter Salt 

Cream Pepper 

1 T. flour 

Melt butter and add flour and enough cream to make 
creamy sauce. Add some gravy if you have it. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Pour over pudding. Bake one and one- 
half hour. 

Sauce for Steamed Salmon. 

1 c. milk 1 T. butter 

1 T. cornstarch Pepper 

Dash of red pepper Salt 

1 T. catsup Pinch of mace 
1 well beaten egg 

Heat milk to boiling point and thicken with cornstarch. 
Add the liquid of the salmon, pepper, salt, butter, mace, red 
pepper and catsup. Add the well beaten egg last. 

Sauce. 

1 c. sugar 1 egg, well beaten 

1 c. milk Flavor to taste 

Pour sugar and egg into milk when boiling. Stir con- 
stantly. Flavor to taste. Good. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Y<\ c. tomato juice 1 T. relish 

Little onion, cut fine 

Add the onion and the relish to the tomato juice and 
cook until mostly all the juice is evaporated. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 141 

Tartar Sauce for Broiled Fish. 

1 T. vinegar 1 T. Worcestershire sauce 

1 t. lemon juice 1/3 c. butter 

1 ssp. salt 

Mix the vinegar, lemon juice, salt and Worcestershire 
sauce in a small bowl and heat over hot water. Brown the 
butter and strain into the other mixture. 

Wine Sauce. 

1 c. boiling water 1 egg 

1 T. cornstarch 1 ssp. grated nutmeg 

34 c. butter 3/2 c. wine 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Moisten the cornstarch with cold water and stir into the 
boiling water. Boil ten minutes. Rub butter and sugar to a 
cream and add well beaten egg and the nutmeg. When the 
cornstarch has cooked ten minutes, add wine, and pour the 
whole over sugar and butter, stirring until well mixed. 

White Sauce. 

2 T. butter 1 c. milk 
2 T. flour y A t. salt 
Few grains of pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, stir until thoroughly blended. 
Add milk, cook until smooth. Season. 



142 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Compliments of a Friend. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 143 

JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

Crabapple Jelly. 

Wash crabapples and cut in halves. Put in a kettle with 
just enough water to cover them. Cook thoroughly and put 
in a jelly bag and let drip. For every cup of juice add a cup 
of sugar and let boil about twenty minutes. Two or three 
rose geranium leaves may be added. Pour into glasses and 
when cold, cover the top with melted paraffin. 



Cranberry Jelly. 

4 c. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

1 c. water 

Pick over and wash berries. Cook slowly in boiling water 
twenty minutes or until soft. Rub through sieve, add sugar 
and stir. Cook about five minutes or until it thickens. Pour 
into wet moulds. Serve with meat. 



Cranberry Jelly. 

1 qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

1 pt. water 

Simmer cranberries and water until they burst. Add 
sugar and boil fifteen minutes. Force through sieve into a 
mould. 

Currant Jelly. 

Wash the currants and put them into a kettle over a very 
slow fire with a small quantity of water. Cool and strain 
through a thin bag. For every pint of juice add one pound 
sugar. Let boil twenty minutes. When cool pour paraffin 
over top. 

Pineapple Preserves. 

Pare and grate the fruit, and make a syrup of one-half 
pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Cook together about 
ten minutes, fill into jars and seal tight. Delicious to serve 
with ice cream, charlotte russe or blanc mange. 



144 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Plum Conserve. 

1 sq. basket blue plums 1 lb. seedless raisins 

4 oranges About 5 lb. sugar 

Grated rind of 2 oranges y 2 lb. broken walnuts 

Boil plums, oranges, raisins and the grated rind of the 
oranges with an equal amount of sugar (about five pounds). 
Let fruit boil to pieces before adding sugar. Watch closely, 
stirring it, as it burns easily. Just before putting into glasses 
add the broken walnuts. 

Red Raspberries. 

Mash the berries and add one pound of granulated sugar 
for every pound of fruit. Mix thoroughly and let stand twelve 
hours, stirring occasionally. Seal in glass cans without heat- 
ing. They will keep for a year or more and retain their flavor 
much better than when cooked. If they should appear to be 
fermenting, do not be alarmed. 

Spiced Gooseberries. 



5 lb. 


green gooseberries 


Cinnamon 


4 lb. 


sugar 


Cloves 


1 pt. 


vinegar 





Prepare the fruit and use one pound of sugar to one pound 
of fruit. Cook until transparent. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 145 

PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

Chow-Chow. 

1 head cabbage y 2 c. salt 

y 2 pk. green tomatoes 3 T. mixed spices 

12 onions (walnut size) 3 c. vinegar 

4 green peppers 3 c. sugar 

2 red peppers WBSBKBKk 

Grind cabbage, tomatoes, onions and peppers in food 
chopper, salt well, let stand over night. Then drain off some 
of juice. Tie mixed spices in bag. Boil all in syrup 10 to IS 
minutes. Put in fruit jars, air-tight. 

Good Dill Pickles. 

10 qt. water 2 qt. good vinegar 

Cucumbers — 300 \y 2 c. salt 

Dill 

Scrub cucumbers clean and let them lie in salt water 
over night. Wash in clear water next morning. Drain and 
dry them. Put dill in the bottom of glass jars and then 
pack in cucumbers and put plenty of dill on the top, a 
few spices and grape leaves, if cared for. Now boil the water,, 
vinegar, and the salt, and pour over pickles, boiling hot- 
Glass jars with pickles can be placed in hot water so as not to> 
crack. Seal the jars and the pickles will keep and be nice 
and crisp. 

Piccalilli. 

1 pk. green tomatoes y 2 doz. onions 

y 2 large head cabbage 1 T. cloves 

1 doz. green peppers 1 T. cinnamon 

1 pt. grated horseradish 1 T. allspice 
1 pt. molasses 

Slice and sprinkle the green tomatoes with salt and let 
them stand over night. Rinse in clear water. Chop the 
cabbage, green peppers, and onions fine and drain through a 
colander. Scald in vinegar and then drain off. Do not use 
vinegar. Add the cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Add the 
grated horseradish, molasses, and vinegar enough to saturate 
the whole when packed in jars. Excellent. 



146 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Pickled Cherries. 

Stone cherries, then cover with vinegar twenty-four hours. 
Drain and add one pound sugar to each pound of cherries. 
Stir until sugar is all dissolved, then put into jars and seal. 

Sour Beans. 

Cook beans in salt water until nearly done. Drain and 
immediately put into fruit jars. In the meanwhile heat one- 
third cup vinegar to one cup of water. Boil a few minutes 
and then pour over beans in jars. Seal while hot. When 
using, drain, put on fresh water and cook until tender. Espe- 
cially good for salad. 

Sweet Pickled Watermelon. 

S c. sugar 4 T. broken cinnamon sticks 

4 c. vinegar 4 T. whole cloves 

Cut skin from watermelon. Cut rind into small pieces 
about one inch wide and two inches long. Cover with water 
and cook until tender. Boil sugar and vinegar ten minutes. 
Add spices tied in a bag. Simmer to a syrup (about one 
hour). Add melon and simmer another hour. Fill in jars 
and seal. 

Good Catsup. 

y 2 lb. granulated sugar 1 t. ground mace 

1 gal. pulp Y\ t. cayenne pepper 

y 2 pt. cider vinegar 

Choose very ripe tomatoes, wash and cut them in pieces. 
Now put them into an enameled kettle, or jar, and let them 
stand three days in a warm place, stirring them twice each 
day. Strain by running them through a coarse sieve, fine 
enough to hold the seeds. Boil the juice without cover (being 
careful not to burn it). When it is the consistency of thick 
cream, measure it carefully and to each gallon of pulp, add 
one-half pound granulated sugar (not beet sugar), one-half 
pint cider vinegar, one teaspoon ground mace and one-fourth 
teaspoon of cayenne pepper. Boil fifteen minutes, bottle and 
cork. When cold, paraffin may be poured into the bottles in 
place of corks. This is a very choice recipe, the sauce will 
keep for years and has the beautiful tomato color. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 147 

Catsup. 

1 bu. tomatoes 1 c. sugar 

1 pt. vinegar y> T. cinnamon 
3 T. salt y 2 T. allspice 

3 T. ground mustard y 2 T. whole cloves 

2 red peppers 3 large onions 

Cut the tomatoes into quarters. Boil and strain. Add 
the vinegar, salt, ground mustard and sugar. Tie the follow- 
ing spices in bag and add : cinnamon, allspice, whole cloves, 
onions, red peppers (seeded). Boil four hours. 

Pickled Beets. 

Cook beets until tender in salt water. Remove skins and 
slice. Take 1 pint vinegar, 1 pint liquid that beets were 
cooked in and one-half cup sugar. Tie spices in a cloth, stick 
cinnamon, whole cloves and allspice. Boil with liquid for 
about ten minutes. Remove all scum. Put sliced beets in 
the liquid and leave at boiling point (do not boil) for about 
five minutes. Pack in Mason jars and seal immediately. 
Small beets left whole may be used instead of sliced. Caraway 
seed adds a delicious flavor, or a few slices of raw onion. 
Cider vinegar is very good. 

Beans, Cold Pack. 

Cut beans as for table use. Pack in sterilized glass jars. 
Put 1 t. salt to a quart on top. Cover well with cold water,, 
leaving no bubbles. Seal up tight, turn back loose half-way 
once around and put in large kettle or boiler. Cover well 
over top of jars with cold water. Bring to boil and boil from 
2 to 2y 2 hours. Remove from water and seal up tight and 
cool. These keep for over a year and are ready to be made 
up for any way of serving. 

Spiced Pickles. 
To one quart cucumbers take two tablespoons salt and 
four tablespoons sugar. In bottom of can put a couple grape 
leaves, some dill and mixed spices to suit taste, and the salt 
and sugar. Pack in pickles and over all pour one-half cold 
vinegar and one-half cold water until can is full. Place some 
dill and a small piece of horseradish root on top, and seal 
Pickles put up in this way will keep indefinitely and always 
remain hard. Use glass jars. 



148 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Compliments of a Friend. 



THE SHOREWOOD CO OK BOOK 149 

Mixed Sweet Pickles. 

100 small cucumbers 1 t. black pepper 

1 qt. small onions 1 t. celery seed 

5 green peppers, sliced 1 t. mustard seed 

1 cauliflower 1 t. turmeric powder 

Put cauliflower in salt water over night. Drain next 
morning. Place in preserving kettle, add spices. Cover with 
equal parts vinegar and sugar. Less sugar if not wanted so 
sweet. Cook all together one-half hour. For little more va- 
riety use sliced green tomatoes and green beans. Seal up in 
Mason jars. Ready for use in about three weeks. 

Mixed Pickles. 

Small cucumbers, sliced, to 1 T. celery seed 

make 2 qts. 2 T. ground mustard 

8 medium sized onions, sliced 1 T. turmeric powder 

4 c. cider vinegar 12 ears corn, cut from cob 

2 c. water 1 red pepper, chopped 

3 c. sugar x /i small c. flour 

Let cucumbers and onions stand in salt water over night. 
Next morning drain. Put in kettle and cover with vinegar 
and water. Cook 20 minutes, add sugar and cook a few min- 
utes ; add celery seed, mustard, turmeric powder and stir well. 
Cook 2 quarts beans in salt water and add to mixture. Add 
corn, 12 ears, boiled and cut from cob, and 1 chopped red 
pepper. Let boil a little. Mix a small half cup flour with 
water and add when mixture is almost done. Taste if sweet 
enough. Put in Mason jars. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles. 

3 pts. tomatoes, peeled and 6 T. sugar 
chopped 6 T. mustard seed 

1 c. table celery, chopped y 2 t. cloves 

4 T. red peppers, chopped y 2 t. cinnamon 

4 T. green peppers, chopped y 2 t. grated nutmeg 
4 T. chopped onion 2 c. cider vinegar 

4 T. salt 

Mix the ingredients in order given. Put into a jar and 
cover. This, uncooked, must stand a week before using and 
if kept cold will keep a year. 



150 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Mustard Pickles. 

50 pickles, cut in small slices 2 qts. green tomatoes, sliced 

1 pt. onions, peeled and sliced 1 green pepper, sliced 

Put all in salt water over night. Drain in morning. Pour 
about one quart hot vinegar over it. Then take: 

^2 c. flour 3 T. mustard 

3 c. sugar 1 qt. vinegar 
and mix all with : 

2 t. turmeric powder 2 t. celery seed 

Let boil and pour over pickles. Boil till tender. Put 
in jars. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 151 

RELISHES. 

India Relish — No. 1. 

1 pk. green tomatoes 1 T. cinnamon 

1 head cabbage 1 T. allspice 

12 green peppers 3 onions 

1 lb. brown sugar 

Chop the tomatoes, let stand twenty-four hours, add the 
onions, cabbage, and peppers. Then add spices and sugar, 
cover well with vinegar and let simmer four hours. 

India Relish — No. 2. 

24 large green tomatoes 6 c. vinegar, diluted 

5 green peppers 4 T. white mustard seed 

4 T. salt 2 T. clery seed 

4 c. sugar 8 onions 

Remove seeds from green peppers. Chop tomatoes and 
strain. Chop onions and green peppers and mix with ingred- 
ients. Boil slowly until thick (about six hours). 

Mustard Pickle Relish. 

12 small cucumbers Y /i c. flour 

1 pt. onions 3 green peppers 

1 head cauliflower 2y 2 qt. green tomatoes 

1 lb. brown sugar iy 2 qt. cider vinegar 

3 oz. ground mustard 1 T. turmeric powder 

Put cucumbers, cauliflower, tomatoes, onions and green 
peppers through a food chopper. Let stand in brine over 
night. Then drain through muslin bag in morning and boil 
up with a dressing made of the remaining ingredients. Seal 
while hot. 

Red Tomato Relish. 

1 pk. red tomatoes, chopped y 2 c. mustard seed 
fine Y* c. salt 

2 c. chopped onions 1 t. nutmeg 

2 c. chopped table celery 1 t. ground black pepper 

2 c. sugar 4 t. cinnamon 

3 small red peppers, chopped 3 qt. cold vinegar 

Drain water off tomatoes. Add onions, celery, sugar, 
mustard seed, salt, nutmeg, black pepper, cinnamon, and red 
peppers. Then pour vinegar over all and bottle. 



152 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



Compliments of a Friend. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 153 

Pepper Relish. 

12 large red peppers 3 c. sugar 

12 large green peppers 3 T. salt 

15 onions, chopped fine 3 T. mustard seed 

Vinegar 

Remove seeds from peppers and chop or grind. Mix with 
the onions and pour boiling water over the mixture. Let 
stand five minutes, then drain. Make a vinegar solution of 
one quart vinegar and two quarts water. Put peppers in the 
mixture and let come to a boil. Let stand ten minutes, then 
drain again. Then add one pint of vinegar, the salt, sugar and 
mustard seed. Let come to a boil. Boil two minutes, bottle, 
and seal. 

Spanish Relish. 

2 doz. small cucumbers 4 red and 2 green peppers 

12 small or 7 large onions y 2 gal. vinegar, diluted 

1 medium sized cabbage 3 lbs. brown sugar 

1 T. salt 1 T. mustard 

2 heaping T. flour Little turmeric 

3 large stalks celery 

Mix the mustard, flour, salt, and turmeric with a little 
vinegar and water until smooth. Add rest of vinegar and 
sugar and when hot add pickles and boil about twenty min- 
utes. Bottle hot. 



154 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



STEVENS 
PRINTING 
COMPANY 



INCORPORATED- 



Quality 
Service 
Price 



62 Mason St. Milwaukee 

Phone Broadway 1421 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 155 



CANDIES. 

Sweets to the sweet. 

"Better Than Fudge" Candy. 

3 c. light brown sugar 5c can condensed milk 

Small lump of butter Vanilla 

Cook like fudge, or until candy forms a small ball when 
dropped in cold water. Add vanilla and chopped nuts. Beat 
until creamy. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy. 

2 T. butter 1/3 c. shredded cocoanut 

iy 2 c. white sugar y 2 t. vanilla 

y 2 c. sweet milk 

Melt the butter in a granite pan. Add the sugar and the 
milk. Heat slowly to boiling point. Boil twelve minutes, 
take from fire, add the cocoanut and vanilla. Beat until 
creamy and pour into buttered tin. Cut into squares when cool. 

Fondant. 

2 c. sugar Y% t. cream of tartar 

2/3 c. water 

Boil the ingredients until mixture forms a soft ball when 
dropped into cold water. Do not stir. Turn out on a large 
platter, not greased. Put in a cool place and when it begins 
to harden, stir with a wooden spoon until white and creamy. 
This is the foundation for all cream candy. With fondant, 
innumerable different kinds may be made. 

French Chocolate Candy. 

White of 1 egg 1 lb. confectioner's sugar 

Use the white of one egg and an equal quantity of water. 
Mix this with the sugar. If not stiff enough to mould with 
the hand, add more sugar. Mould into shape and set away 
a few hours to harden. Melt the chocolate over a dish of hot 
water and dip the candy into it. Set them to dry on paraffine 
paper. 



156 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 

Fudge. 

3 c. sugar Butter, size of an egg 

1 c. milk or cream Pinch of salt 

6 T. cocoa Vanilla 

Boil sugar, milk and cocoa until it forms a soft ball in 
cold water. Then add vanilla and stir. Care should be 
taken not to stir too much, or it may get lumpy. 



Pinoche. 

2 c. brown sugar 1 t. vanilla 

24 c. milk 1 c. chopped nutmeats 

1 T. butter 

Boil sugar and milk and stir constantly until it becomes 
a soft ball in water. Then remove from fire, add butter, 
vanilla, and nutmeats. Beat until creamy, pour into buttered 
pans, and cut into squares. 



Sea Foam Candy. 

2 c. brown sugar Vanilla 

y 2 c. water White of 1 egg 

Boil the sugar with the water until it threads. Add the 
vanilla, pour very slowly, beating all the time, into the stiffly 
beaten white of the egg. Then beat quite hard until it is 
rather thick. Stir in chopped nuts and cherries. Drop on 
buttered tins. 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 157 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Baking Powder. 

y 2 lb. baking soda 1 lb. cream of tartar 

y 2 lb. cornstarch 

Sift four or five times. 

Corn Meal Mush. 

1 c. meal x /i c. cold water 

1 t. salt 5 c. boiling water 

Place over fire in smooth kettle, until it bubbles. Then 
cover tightly and set on back of stove to bubble steadily for 
an hour. 

French Toast. 

Slice wheat bread and dip each piece into milk. Then 
beat two eggs and dip bread into this batter. Fry in hot lard. 
Serve hot with butter or syrup. 

Salted Almonds. 

These salted almonds are delicious and this is the secret 
of their success : Leave on the outer skin, wash and dry the 
nuts thoroughly. Melt butter in a pan, and stir in the nuts, 
seeing that they are all well coated with butter. Salt gen- 
erously and leave in hot oven until they are thoroughly 
brown. They are very crisp and have a richness of flavor 
that is never obtained in the blanched nuts. The work of 
preparing them, too, is lessened by half. 

Vinegar. 

Three gallons soft water, two pounds brown sugar and 
one tablespoon yeast. This makes a very good vinegar. 



158 



THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



ABBREVIATIONS AND TABLES. 



Abbreviations. 

T. stands for tablespoon, 
t. stands for teaspoon, 
ssp. stands for saltspoon ( 
c. stands for cup. 
spk. stands for speck, 
pk. stands for peck. 



gal. stands for gallon, 
pt. stands for pint, 
t) qt. stands for quart, 
lb. stands for pound, 
oz. stands for ounce. 



Tables of Measures and Weights. 



4 T.=% c. 




4 c. flour=l lb. 


8 T.=l gill. 




2 c. solid butter=l lb. 


2 gi.=l c. 




2 c. gran. sugar=l lb. 


2 c.=l pt. 




2 c. milk or water=l lb 


2 pt.=l qt. 




2 c. solid meat— 1 lb. 


4 qt.=l gal. 




1 t. liquid=^ oz. 


8 qt.=l pk. 




4 T. flour=l oz. 


4 T.=l wine 


glass. 


2 T. sugar=l oz. 


9 large eggs= 


=1 lb. 


2 T. butter=l oz. 


3 t.=l T. 










1922 





THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 159 



INDEX. 

Abbeviations and Tables 158 

Bread 85 

Cakes 89 

Candies 155 

Cookies and Doughnuts 123 

Desserts . i 135 

Dressings 61 

Eggs and Omelets 67 

Fish, Oysters and Shrimps 13 

Frostings and Fillings 121 

Jellies and Preserves 143 

Meats 23 

Miscellaneous 157 

Pickles and Catsups 145 

Pies 79 

Puddings 71 

Relishes 151 

Salads 43 

Sauces 139 

Soups and Dumplings 5 

Vegetables 37 



160 THE SHOREWOOD COOK BOOK 



For Safe 
Investments 



Chris. Schroeder & Son Co, 

86 Michigan St., Milwaukee, Wis. 
Broadway 1951 



1st Mortgage Real Estate Bonds 

Denominations — $100 to $10,000 
31 years without a cent of loss to any investor 





EL 



JQ 



NATHANAEL GREENE 

CAN SELL YOUR REAL ESTATE 



->^t. ^/ 



. i/fatft c .. 



^^- ^^- 



I 



