
0^/^/c^ Co 



TOLEDO PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Home Economics 

Cook Book 

for Elementary Grades 



Board of Education 
Toledo, Ohio 

1Q32 



Albert K. A4ann Library 
Cornell Univehsity 




TOLEDO PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Home Economics 

Cook Book 

for Elementary Grades^ 



Board of Education 
Toledo, Ohio 

1922 



PREFACE. 

The recipes in this book have been compiled by the teachers 
of- Domestic Science in the Department of Home Economics in 
the TOLEDO PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 

Mrs. Harriet G. Wbeks, Supervisor Home Economics 
Mrs. Mary Boardman 
Miss Katherine Duncan 
Mrs. Marie B. Ellis 
Miss Lila Fisher 
Miss Louise Hoyt 
Miss Gertrude Knights 
, . Mrs. Marguerite P. McGinnis 

Miss Efeie Mallory 
Miss Elizabeth Malone 
Miss Ruth Sanger 
Miss Margaret SemplE 
Miss Della Marie Watson 
Miss Helen Wylie 




Cornell University 
Library 



^ 



The original of tiiis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924094662511 



INTRODUCTION 

"Cookery as it is today, is the application of the arts and 
sciences to the preparation of food, primarily for the purposes of 
human nutrition, but for social and ^ psychological aspects and 
purposes as well." 



DEFINITION OF FOOD 

"Food is anything which nourishes the 'body, that is, builds 
up tissue or yields energy or both, and regulates body processes." 



' j COMPOSITION OF FOOD v; , 

Food is composed of the same elements as those which con- 
stitute the body. Foods contain some oi the elements in the 
following list, but not all, but must have compounds of these 
elements. 



Carbon 


Sulphur 


Sodium 


Oxygen 


Iron 


Phosphorus 


Hydrogen 


Calcium 


Magnesia 


Nitrogen 


Chlorin 





TABLE OF ABBEEVIATIONS 

tsp teaspoon ' spk speck 

tbsp tablespoon f . d few drops 

c - cup pt pint 



EQUIVALENT MEASURES 

4 saltspoons 1 teaspoon 1 cup 8 liquid ounces 

3 tsp 1 tablespoon 1 stand, measuring .cup. . J4 pt. 

16 tbsp .1 cup 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



TABLg OF MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 

4 c. flour 1 lb. 2% c. powdered sugar. . 1 lb. 

2 c. solid butter 1 lb. 2% c. brown sugar 1 lb. 

2 c. granulated sugar ... 1 lb. juice one lemon 3 tbsp. 

3 c. cornmeal 1 lb. 1 whole egg. . . .about 4 tbsp. 



MEASUREMENTS 

All materials used in the recipes given in this hook are to be 
measured level. 

Level measurements are used: (1) So as to secure the exact 
amounts required by the recipe. (2) So that all materials will 
be in exact proportion to one another. 

To measure a cupful of dry material, put the material in the 
cup with a spoon, being careful not to pack it, heap slightly and 
scrape off the extra material with the blunt edge of a case-knife. 

Sift dry materials once before measuring. 

To measure a spoonful, heap slightly and scrape off extra 
material with a' knife as mentioned above. 

To measure a half spoonful, level and divide in half by cut- 
ting through the middle lengthwise. A quarter spoonful is meas- 
ured by first dividing in half and then cutting through the middle 
crosswise. 

A speck is as much material as can be taken on the tin of a 
pointed knife. 

"Butter melted" is butter measured before melting. 

"Melted butter" is butter measured after melting. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



METHODS OF COOKING 

Cooking is the application of heat to food which changes the 
nature of the food and usually makes it more digestible and 
appetizing. It develops the flavor, and destroys the germs. ■ 
I— Cooking with moisture: 

(a) Boiling is cooking at a temperature of 212° F. 

(b) Simmering is cooking at a low temperature on top of 
the stove. 

(c) Steaming. 

(a) Moist, as cooking by contact steam as in a steamer 
set over boiling water. 

(b) Dry, as in a double-boiler. 

(d) Stewing; the food is put into boiHhg water then the 
temperature is reduced to the simmering point (about 
180° F.). 

(e) Parboiling is to partially cook in boiling water. 

(f) Erasing is a form of stewing in a covered dish in the 
oven. 

II — Cooking without moisture: 

(a) Baking is cooking rn an oven without moistiire. 

(b) Broiling is cooking over open coals, or in a broiling 
oven. 

(c). Pan-broiling is cooking in a very hot frying pan without 
any fat, on top of the stove. 

(d) Frying is cooking in deep fat. 

(e) Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of fat. 

(f) Roasting may be with, moisture when a very little water 
is added, and the food is basted ; or water may be omitted 
and the food is cooked in its own juices in a very hot oven. 

(g) Fricaseeing is a combination of sauteing and stewing. 

METHOD OF COMBINING INGREDIENTS 

Stirring : " Hold the bowl flat on the table and the spoon so 
the 'bottom will scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl ; stir round 
and round until you cannot tell one ingredient from the other. 

Beating : Tip the bowl slightly, hold the spoon so the side 
will scrape the bottom and side of the bowl; bring the spoon up 
and continue until light and full of bubbles. 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



Folding: Bring the material from below gently over the 
ingredient added. Continue to cut and fold until thoroughly 
mixed but do not beat or stir. , 

Stir mixtures to make them smooth. Beat mixtures to make 
them light. Cut the stiflE white of eggs into mixtures. 

CIvASSIIflCATION OF FOODS 

I — Carbohydrates': Produce fuel and energy. 

(a) Starch is found in large amounts in cereals and flour, 
rice, macaroni, etc. In vegetables such as corn, potatoes, 
dry peas and dry beans, etc. 

(b) Cellulose is the fibrous material holding the food ele- 
ments of grain. products, vegetables, and- fruit in shape.; 

(c) Sugar is fotlnd'in cane sugar, maple sugar, honey, milk, 
fruits, especially dates, raisins and prunes and some of 
the vegetables. 

II — Fats: Produce fuel and energy. 

Fat is found in cream, butter, vegetable oil, nuts, fat of 
meat, etc. 
Ill — Proteins: Build and repair tissue. 

Proteins are found in milk, cheese, eggs, meat, fish, -dried 
peas and dried beans, nuts, etc. 
IV — Mineral Matter: Builds tissue, ibone and teeth, helps to 
control and regulate body processes, and keeps the blood 
in good condition. 

It is found in vegetables, fruits, milk, eggs and whole 
grains. 

V — ^Water functions in all of the body processes. It is present 
not only in food, but in every part of the body. It 
quenches thirst, helps circulation, aids digestion, regulates 
body temperature, stimulates the nervous system, and 
carries off waste. 

VI — Vitamines: Promote growth. 

Vitamines are found in milk, greens, fresh fruits espe- 
cially oranges and lemons, tomatoes, whole cereals, leafy 
vegetables, etc. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



CHAPTER I. 

BEyEEAGES 

Tea and coffee are not foods, but are beverages. They have 
a stimulating effect upon the nerves. Children and -young people 
who bave not stopped growing should not drink either tea or 
Qoffee. 

Tea is valued for its thein ; cofjee for its caffein. 

Both contain tannin, a bitter substance very injurious to the 
stomach. Boiling tea or letting tea stand longer than five 
minutes on the leaves or grounds will extract this tannin. 

GENERAI, EULBS 

Keep tea and coffee in tightly covered jars. 
Scald the tea and coffee pots before using. 
Use freshly boiling water in making tea and coffee. 
Do not use tin- ware for making tea or coffee. 

TEA 
Scant J4 tsp. tea 1 c. boiling water 

Scald the tea pot, put in the tea, and pour over it, the freshly- 
drawn, boiling water. Steep from 3 to 5 minutes. 

ICED TEA 

1 to 2 tsp. tea 1 c. boiling water 

Make as above. Strain into glasses % full of cracked ice. 
The flavor is better if chilled quickly. 

RUSSIAN TEA -•' '-■ 

Make tea by above recipe and serve with a slice of lemon and 
sugar. Lemon served with black tea is not a fad; There is a 
scientific reason beneath the surface. The citric acid of the fruit 
offsets the tannic acid of the tea rendering it refreshing and 
wholesome. 



10 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



COFFEB 

1 tbsp. coffee 1 c. water 

y^ tsp. &g% white or crushed shell 

COLD WATER COFFEE 

Mix coffee, cold water and egg, heat slowly to the boiling 
point. Remove to the back of the stove and allow to settle. If 
cream is not available to serve with the coffee, use hot milk. 

CHOCOLATE , 

Cocoa and chocolate are foods. Chocolate contains fat. 
All preparations of cocoa or chocolate and cocoa shells are 
the products of the seeds of the cacao tree. These seeds, called 
cacao beans, which are about the size of almonds, lie surrounded 
by a fibrous pulp, in a brownish yellow pod about a foot long, 
growing from the trunk and large- limbs of the tree instead of 
the branches. 

The seeds are separated from the pods, allowed to ferment 
on the ground and then roasted. The thin shell is removed, the 
kernel cracked and broken into small pieces. These cocoa nibs 
are then ground, forming a smooth paste, which is poured into 
moulds for bitter, chocolate and sweetened and mouded- for sweet 
chocolate; for cocoa, the fat extracted under pressure and the 
remainder powdered. 

CHOCOLATE 

2 squares of Baker's chocolate 1 pt. water 

3 tbsp. sugar ' 1 pt. milk 

Put -chocolate with water into sauce pan. Heat until the 
chocolate melts. Add sugar and boil 10 minutes. Add milk, 
bring to a boil and beat 2 minutes with a Dover tggt beater. 

COCOA 

Large recipe: Small recipe: 

J4 c. cocoa ^ tbsp. "cocoa 

Ya. c. sugar y^ tbsp. sugar 

2 c. water % c. water 

2 c. milk i/g c. milk 

Mix cocoa and sugar with boiling water and cook slowly 
directly over the fire from three to five minutes. Stir this into 



FOR ELEMENTARY. GRADES 11 

scalded milk. Then cook in double boiler five minutes. Beat 
well just before serving. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

2 c. sygar 3 lemons 

1 qt. water 1 orange 

1 pineapple 

Place over the fire long enough to entirely dissolve the sugar 
in the water. Take from the fire. Add to the syrup the juice of 
three lemons, and the grated rind of one, the pulp and juice of 
the orange, the shredded pineapple and juice. Let the mixture 
stand until partly cooled, then strain through a coarse sieve, 
rubbing as much of the fruit through as possible.' Then place 
where it will become perfectly cool. At serving time add one 
pint of ice-cold water, or cracked ice. 

LBMONADE 

Juice 2 lemons 1 c. sugar 

4 cups water Ice" 

Mix sugar and lemon juice. Add water and stir until dis- 
solved. 

MILK 

Analysis of Milk Experiment : 

EXP. 1. Drop milk or cream on a blotter or unvarnished 

wood. What kind of a spot does it make? 
EXP. 2. Test milk with iodine. Is starch present? 
EXP. 3. Boil some !milk. Something rises to the top, 

what is it? 
EXP. 4. Add an acid. What happens? 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF MILK 

Proteins (casein,. small amount of albumen).. ... 3.3% 

Carbohydrates (milk, sugar, or lactose) S.0% 

Fat (cream) 4.0% 

Mineral Matter (calcium, or lime, ir(jn, and 

phosphorus) 0.7% 

Water 87.0% 

Vitamines 



12 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



Milk is the sole food for the young of many animals. For_ 
adults it is not a perfect food 'because the amount of water is too 
great. 

The digestive organs need some bulky food to assist the 
action of the stomach and intestines. It may be safely said, tha.t 
for those in ill health, no other single food is of so much value. 

Casein is the most important protein of milk. It is is coag- 
ulated by the action of acids, causing a solid curd to separate out 
from the liquid part called "whey." 

Casein forms a clot in the stomach by the action of the 
rennin, which is secreted by the stomach, and it then digests as 
a solid food. ,The addition of lime water, or some cereal water, 
as barley water, tends to make the casein form a lighter and more 
digestible clot, hence they are often added to baby's food. 

The sugar found in milk is lactose. It is less sweet and less 
soluble than cane sugar, also less, subject to fermentation in the 
stomach. Because of the two last named qualities, there is less 
danger of -direct irritation of the rriembrane in the stomach. 

Milk turns sour because of an acid formed by bacteria acting 
upon the lactose. This acid is called lactic acid. 

The coagulated casein or curd of sour milk is used in making 
cheese. The Vhey consists chiefly of water, having in it the 
sug-ar: and mineral matter of the milk. The lime salts of milk 
are valuable for bone material. 

The fat of milk is present in the form of minute globules, 
being the lightest part of milk, they rise to the top, forming a 
layer of cream. When shaken or churned these tiny globules 
stick together forming butter. The remaining milk is called 
butter-milk. Butter fat is a very palatable, easily dige'sted form 
of fat. Both cream and butter furnish valuable vitamines. 

Harmful bacteria grow very rapidly in milk. Therefore the 
utmost cleanliness should be observed in the handling, stirring 
and serving of milk; 

CARE OF MILK 

1. Before .opening a milk bottle, wipe it .well to take off dust 
particles. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 13 

2. Milk should be kept in clean containers and in a sweet, 
clean, cool place as germs do not grow at a low temperature. 

3. Always have the container covered not only to keep out 
duigt and flies, but to prevent the milk from absorbing odors of 
any food near which it is placed. 

4. As odors travel upward in a refrigerator; always keep 
the milk on the lowest shelf. 

5. Milk is pasteurised by putting it in clean bottles and 
placing the bottles in a pan of cold water which is gradually, 
heated to a temperature of 160 to 165 degrees Fahrenheit and 
then quickly cooled. ^ 

JUNKET 

1 pt. milk 3 or 4 tsp. sugar 

j4 tsp. vanilla 

One tbsp. liquid rennet or 1 junket tablet dissolved in 1 tbsp. 
water. 

Heat milk in a double boiler until lukewarm. Add sugar 
and stir until dissolved. Stir in vanilla arid rennet and pour into 
a dish. Let stand in a warm place undisturbed until it thickens, 
then set in a cool place until firm. Sprinkle with cinnamon or 

nutmeg, and serve with cream and sugar.. 

■ -c. - 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

Heat slowly thick sour milk on the back of the stove or in a ; 
pan of hot water. As soon as the curd separates from the whey, 
strain through a cloth, allowing it to drip until rather dry. Put 
in a bowl and stir with a fork, adding salt, pepper and cream to 
taste. -, ' 



14 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER II. 

FRUITS 

• 

Fruit is a vegetable or plant. Fruit contains a large amount 
of water. Bath fresh and dried fruits have good sugar values; 
they contain a small amount of mineral ash ; almost no protein, 
and no fats. 

The bulk of fruit is cellulose, which is a woody fiber and is 
most beneficial in the diet. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FRUITS 

1. Flavor fruits, which contain more than 80% water; — 
oranges, berries, melons, etc. 

2. Food fruits, which contain less than 80% water ; — as 
dates, raisins, bananas, etc. 

USES OF FRUITS 

1. Refreshing. 

2. Stimulates the' appetite. 

3. Acts as a laxative; 

4. Most fruits are digestible in the raw stage. 

5. Gives variety to the diet. . 

6. Summer fruits and berries are essential in the diet be- 
cause of their acid content. They supply some vitamines 
but are not so rich in them as are the citrus fruits, which 
are probably the best sources of that important element. 

FFFFCTS OF COOKING ON FRUITS 

1. Soften the fiber or cellulose. 

2. Destroys bacteria. 

3. Cooks the starch. 

4. Develops the flavor. 

SELFCTION OF FRUITS 

1. Always select fruit in season. 

2. Select clean and not over ripe fruit. 

3. Dried fruit may be substituted for fresh fruit 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 15 



RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN COOKING DRIED ERUIT 

1. Look over carefully. 

2. Wash carefully. 

3. Soak several hours in a large quantity of water, as dried 
■ fruit will swell or puff up. 

4. Ivong soaking requires short cooking. 

5. Cook the fruit in the water in which it was soaked, and 
cover while cooking to retain the flavor, and to keep the 
water from evaporating. 

6. Simmer, do not let it boil. 

7h. Cook slowly to keep its shape. 
8. Add flavoring when done. 

STEWED PRUNES WITH LEMON 

Wash prunes and soak over night or several hours in water 
to cover. Cook in same water Until plump, add vsugar and lemon. 
Cook IG minutes longer. 

BAKED APPtE 

Wash and core sour apples, beginning at the blossom end. 
With a sharp pointed knife remove the stem. - Score the apple 
near the top, by cutting a ring completely around the apple. Fill 
the cavity with sugar (yi tbsp. to the apple). A wedge of lemon 
may be placed in the top of the cavity. Nutmeg or cinnamon 
may be used in place of the lemon. When apples are at their 
best, do not use any flavoring. Place the apples in a baking dish, 
cover the bottom with boiling water, and bake in a hot oven until 
soft, basting often with the syrup in . the dish. Test with a 
pointed knife. Serve hot or cold with the syrup, with or with- 
out cream. 

ERIED APPLES 

Pare, core and slice several apples ; in a frying pan put 3 tbsp. 
butter and when melted add apples. Sprinkle }i c. sugar over 
them and cook slowly, taking care that they brown, but do not 
scorch. When tender and transparent remove from the fire and 
serve. 



16 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

APPLE SAUCE 

1 apple yk-Vi c. water (boiling) 

1 tbsp. sugar 

Method 1— 

Wash the apple, remove all imperfections, cut in quarters or 
eighths. Add the boiling water and cook until tender. Press 
through a strainer, discarding skins and seeds. Add the sugar 
and flavoring, (if any is used). 

Method 2— 

Wash, quarter, core and pare the apple. Add the- boiling 
water and cook until tender. If a smooth sauce is desired beat 
or strain. Add the sugar. Reheat until the sugar dissolves. 

Method 3— 

Make a thin syrup using ^ c. water and 2 tbsp. sugar. 
Wash, quarter, 'core and pare the apple, and add the slices of 
apple to the hot syrup. Cook until tender and transparent. Re- 
move the slices, arranging them on the serving dish. Pour the 
syrup over the apples. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Remove skins from six bananas and cut in halves length- 
wise, put in a sihallow granite pan or an old platter. Mix 2 tbsp., 
melted butter, i/g c. sugar, and 2 tbsp. lemon juice. Baste bananas 
with %. of the mixture. Bake 20 minutes in a slow oven, basting 
during baking with remaining mixture. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL 

Remove pulp from grapefruit. Oomlbine with shredded 
pineapple, bananas, strawberries, using half as much pineapple as 
grapefruit. There should be two cups of fruit. Serve in cock- 
tail glasses with a little fruit juice to which a very little powdered 
sugar has been added. 

GRAPEFRUIT 

Wipe the grapefruit and cut in halves crosswise using a 
small sharp-pointed knife. Make a cut separating the pulp from 
the tough portion which divides the fruit into sections Use 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 17 

scissors and cut the tough portion at stem or blossom end close 
to the skin when all portions can be removed at once. A candied 
cherry in the center adds a touch of color. 

ORANGES 

1. Peel the orange and remove all the white skin and break 
sections, and with a sharp knife, cut the pulp from the 
tough skin. Serve on a fruit plate in a wheel shape. 

2. Wipe oranges and cut in halves cross-wise. With a 
sharp knife cut around each section so the pulp is loose 
and can be easily eaten with a spoon. 

3. Remove, peel from an orange in such a way that there 
remains a j4-inch band of peel equal distance from stem 
and blossom end. Cut band, separate sections, and ar- 
range around a mould of sugar. 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

2 cups rhubarb ' 1 cup sugar 

Yz cup water 

Remove leaves from the rhubarb, wash the stalk, peel the 
.flat side of the stalk and cut in 1 inch lengths. Put rhubarb in 
sauce-pan add water, and stew slowly urftil tender, stirring often 
at first. 

Add sugar and cook until sugar is dissolved. 

CRANBERRY' SAUCE 

2 cups cranberries 1 cup sugar 

% cup cold water 

Pick over and wash cranberries, put into a granite sauce-pan. 
Sprinkle the sugar over them, add the water. After they begin 
to boil, cook slowly 10 minutes, closely covered, without stirring. 

Por jelly strain the fruit befpre sugar is added and boil until 
it jellies. 

If the cranberries are allowed to stand in boiling water for 
a few minutes and then drained, much of the strong acid will be 
removed and the berries will require less sugar. 

Always use a granite pan and wooden spoon when cooking 
cranberries. 



18 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER III. 

GlJNERAI, METHOD O^ COOKING CERSAI,S 
UTENSILS — ^DOUBLB-BOILER 

Usual proportions :■ — • 

■y'^ C fl3.1:C6S I • 

M c' granular f ° ^ *"' ^'""^ ^^t^"" ^"^ ^ ^^P- ^^^t. 

The denser the cereal, the more water and the longer time 
required for cooking cereals. 

Bring water to the boiling point in the upper part of the 
double-iboiler, place directly over the fire, add the salt. Shake the 
cereal slowly into the boiling water, stirring constantly. Let the 
boiling continue till the mixture begins, to thicken. Place over 
boiling water in the lower part of the bdiler, cover and cook 
gently with little stirring 1 hr. or more, or till tender and soft. 
Or put in a fireless cooker for 3 hrs. Serve hot, with or without 
sugar, with milk, cream or butter. 



tabce for cooking cereals 

Kind Quantity Water Time, 

Rolled Oats 1 cup 2 cups 30 min. 

Rice (steamed) 1 cup 3 cups 1 hr. 

Corn-meal 1 cup 3)4 cups 2 hr. 

Cracked-wheat 1 cup 4 cups ' 4 hr. 

Cream of Wheat 1 cup 4 cups 30min. 

Fine granular cereals should be mixed with cold water first 
to prevent lumping. 

Cereals must be thorougl^y cooked to be digestible. Boiling 
temperature softens the Woody' fiber or cellulose. 



LeFT-OVER CEREALS 
Cereals may be served either hot or cold; never throw cold 
cereal away as it may be used in a number of ways 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 19 

It may be: 

1. Added to fresh-cooked cereals. 

2. Molded with fruit. 

3. Used in making pancakes, muffins and puddings. 

4. Fried until brownr 

5. Made into polenta. 

6. Added to soup. 

7. Mixed with . croquettes. 

FRIED MUSH 

Pack cereal in a greased baking powder can or^ small bread 
pan. When cold remove from mold, slice and. saute *n hot fat. 

CEREAis 
Cereals are the seeds of cultivated grains or grasses. Nature 
provides some kind of cereals in almost every country, from the 
wheat and oats of the Northern countries to the rice of the South- 
ern countries." 

Kinds of Cereals : — 

Wheat, oats, corn, r.ye, barley, rice, buckwheat. From these 
are prepared the various breakfast foods, and flours. 

Cereals may be purchased in the following forms: 

Flakes — as rolled oats. Granular — as hominy grits. 

Finely ground — ^as corn-meal.. Whole^as rice. 

Cereal foods also include all meals and flours, used in making 
bread, crackers, muffins, cakes, pastry and macaroni. As a 'rule 
the rnore cereal food used, the cheaper the diet. 

COMPOSITION 

They are about 75% starch and cellulose ^ the other 25% is 
water, protein, mineral matter, and fat. The whole grains are 
especially valuable for their mineral and vitamine content. 

Cereals are valued as heat and energy-producing foods, be- 
cause of the large amount of carbohydrate which they contain. 

Starch is a form of carbohydrate that is present in many 
grains, fruits and vegetables. 

It is a •fine white powder, each grain of which is covered 
with a tough covering of cellulose. 



20 FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



If a little starch is put into cold water, it sinks to the bottom, 
of the pan unchanged. 

Demonstrate. 

If put into hot water and boiled this cellulose covering bursts 
and the starch comeis out into the water and thickens it. 

Demonstrate. 

Starqhy foods must, therefore, be thoroughly cooked in order 
to break open the starch cells. 

Cellulose is not digestible, but its bulk is valuable since it 
aids, in the proper movement of food through the digestive tract. 

''Starch is valued as a food because is supplies heat and energy 
to the body and forms fat. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 21 



CHAPTER IV. 

EGGS 

Always wash eggs before using. 

Eggs .are fresh if they sink to the bottom of a pan of water; 
stale eggs will rise in the water. 

Keep eggs in a cool place. 

Crushed egg shells put into cold water may be used for 
clearing coffee. 

The yolk of an egg may be kept from hardening by covering 
with water. 

Eggs must always be cooked at low temperature, not above 
the sihjmering point of water (180 degrees P.). 

To BREAK AN EGG 

Hold the egg in the right hand, strike near the center on a 
hard surface, or hold the egg in the left hand and strike sharply 
near the center with a knife Put the tliumbs together at the 
cracked shell and break the shell apart carefully. 

To SEPARATE AN EGG 

Slip the yolk from one piece of shell to the other several 
times allowing the white to slip from the shell into a dish. Put 
the yolk into a bowl. 

BEATING EGGS , ' 

\ 

Slightly beaten^ — the vvhite and yolk are thoroughly blended, 
so a spoonful can be taken up. > , 

Well beaten yolks — ^very thick and lemon colored. 

Well beaten whites — the whites ai-e beaten dry when they do 
not slip from the plate when turned upside down. 

■ SOET COOKED EGGS 
Have ready a sauce pan containing boiling water. Carefully 
put the eggs in the water with a spoon, using the number desired^ 
covering thern with water. Remove the saucepan to the back of 
the range, where the water will' not bpil. Coqk from five to eight 
minutes. 



22 HOM-E ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



HARD COOKED EGGS 

Cook eggs from 40 to 45 minutes at the simmering tempera- 
ture. If hard cooked eggs are to be used for other dishes, when 
taken from the hot water they should be plunged .into cold water 
to prevent, if possible, discoloration of yolks. 

POACHED EGGS 
Break fresh eggs into a small dish and slip them into a 
poacher or shallow pan, nearly full of boiling, salted water. Cover 
the pan and stand it where the water will stay hot, but riot boil. 
The' steam will help to form a white , film over the top of the 
eggs. When the white is firm, remove the eggs carefully to 
pieces of buttered toast arranged on a hot platter. 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Butter individual baking dishes. Break one egg into each. 
Cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a moderate oven until 
the consistency desired. Remennber , the egg& will continue to 
cook in the dish after it is removed froih the oven. 

CREAMED EGGS 

Cook eggs until hard and mealy. For three eggs make one 
cup of white sauce. They may be served on slices of hot buttered 
toast. 

CREAMY OMEl<ET 

4 tbsp. butter 1 c. milk 

4 tbsp. flour 4 eg|^s. 

^2 tsp. salt. 

Make a thick white sauce cool slightly.' Separate the yolks 
and whites of the eggs. Beat yolks until creamy ; add to the 
white sauce. Beat the whites until stiff and fold into the mix- 
ture. Pour into a heated, buttered frying pari, spread evenly and 
allow to cook slowly until firm. 

OMELETS 

General rule for omelet. Allow one egg for each person 
and one tbsp. of milk or water for each egg. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 23 



PLAIN OMELET 
3 eggs spk. pepper 

J4 tsp. salt 3 tbsp. milk or hot water 

Beat eggs till well mixed, add salt, pepper and liquid. Put 
1 tsp. butter or nice drippings in a smooth frying pan, shake it 
over the fire until melted, then turn in the mixture. Shake occa- 
sionally to see that the omelet does not stick. Cook till the 
underside is brown. Fold and serve at once. 

BEATEN OMELET 
3 eggs beaten separately yi tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. milk or water Pepper 

Beat the yolk till very light. Add milk and seasoning, then 
beaten whites. Heat 1 tsp. butter in a frying pan, pour in the 
omelet and spread evenly. Cook slowly till brown on the bottom. 
Set in the oven to dry on top, fold and serve at once. 

LIST OF OMELETS 
Ham or Bacon Oirange 

Cheese Apple 

Bread Jelly 

Spanish Jam 



24 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



Diagram showing the section of an egg: 




1 — Shell 3 — Membrane 5 — -Twisted Cords 7 — Germ 

8 — Air Space 4 — White of Egg 6 — ^Membranes ' 8 — Yolk 

Around Yolk 



HOME .PRESERVATION 01^ SGGS 

As a matter of safety as well as economy, it is very desirable 
for the household to obtain a surplus of eggs during the season 
when they are of good quality, plentiful £tnd cheap, for preserving 
for winter use. The best methods of preserving are water-glass, 
lime-water and salt-brine. The water-glass gives the best results,; 
because of the chalky taste that can be detected in eggs preserved 
in lime-water and salt-brine. 

WATER-GIvASS SOLtTTlON 

The commercial water-glass solution may be obtained from 
any drug store. 

Mix one part of the solution with 10 to IS parts of boiled 
water, according to the strength of the water-glass. Stir the 
mixture until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. A large 
stone jar is the most suitable vessel to use. After the water glass 
is thoroughly mixed, pour it into the jar, be sure the jar is abso- 
lutely clean. Place the eggs in the water-glass, having at least 
two inches of the mixture above the top row of eggs. Cover the 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 25 

jar to prevent evaporation ; set the jars in a cool place where they 
will be undisturbed during the year. Rinse the eggs with water, 
after removing them from the preservative. 

sugge;stions 

Preserve only absolutely fresh eggs ; stale eggs will not keep 
in any preservative. 

Do not preserve egg^ that are not clean, or eggs that have 
been washed. Washed eggs will not keep so well, and soiled 
eggs will become tainted in flavor. 

Eggs .laid in April, May or October keep the best. , 



26 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER V. 

SOUPS 

Soups should be generally used in eyery household as they" 
are economical, nourishing and easy to prepare. Much good food 
that might otherwise be thrown away may be used in making- 
soups. Vegetables too old and tough for table use and many 
left-overs may be used. 

Many soups contain all the food elements, and with the addi- 
tion of bread and butter, or sandwiches, and if desired a dessert, 
make a complete meal. They make excellent luncheon dishes. 
Clear soups are also served at the beginning of a meal as an 
appetizer. 

Crackers or croutons made > from stale bread are usually 
served with soups. 

Soups may 'be made either with milk or meat stock as their 
foundation. 

CRBAM SOUPS 

Soups made with milk are called cream soups. They are a 
combination of milk and vegetable pulp, thickened to the con- 
sistency of Cream. Some flour is necessary to prevent the 
vegetable pulp and milk from separating. The thickening of 
soups is called binding. 

Cream soups are excellent for small children, especially if 
they object to drinking milk. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CREAM SOUPS 

Any cream sotip may be made by following these directions r 

Cook the vegetables in water till soft; press through a 
strainer. Make a thin white sauce and add the vegetable pulp 
to it. Bring it to a boil and season. .Serve at once. Do not 
combine vegetable pulp and white sauce until ready to serve. 
Always add the vegetable pulp to the white sauce. 

If the vegetable pulp is watery it will be necessary to use 
more flour. 

The water in which mild flavored vegetables have cooked 
may form part of the liquid for the white sauce, as it contains 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 27 



the mineral salts, and other food elements which escaped during 
the process of cooking. 

GENERAL PROPORTIONS FOR CREAM SOUPS 

1 qt. milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 to 4 tbsp. flour 2 tbsp. butter 

1 to 2 cups vegetable pulp pepper to taste 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

2 or 3 c. celery 3 tbsp. butter 
1 pit. boiling water 4 tbsp. flour 
2j4 c. milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 slice onion spk. of pepper 

Wash and scrape the celery, cut in inch pieces, cook in boil- 
ing water till soft. Press through a strainer. Scald milk and 
onion, remove the onion, if desired,, and make a white sauce of 
the milk, and remaining ingredients. Add the celery, reheat and 
serve. Outer and old stalks of celery, also the leaves may be 
used for soups. 

CREAM OE CORN SOUP 

1 can corn 2 tbsp. butter 

1 pt. boiling water 2 tbsp. flour 

1 pt. milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 slice onion J4 tsp. pepper 

Cook corn in boiling water 20 nrin. Strajn. Scald milk with 

the onion, remove onion and add strained corn jijtice. Thicken 

with the butter and flour and season. 

CREAM OE PEA SOUP 

1 can peas 2 tbsp. flour 

1 pt. boiling water 2 tbsp. butter 

1 pt. milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 slice onion spk. of pepper 
Yi tsp., sugar 

Drain peas from liquor, rinse in cold water, add boiling 

water, and simmer until peas are soft. Press through a strainer. 

Scald the milk and onion together. Make; a white sauce of 



28 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



milk and remaining ingredients. Add the pulp and water. Re- 
heat and serve. 

CRBAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

1 qt. can tomatoes 1 qt. milk 

}i tsp. soda 1 tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. butter H tsp. pepper 
6 tbsp. flour 

Stew tomatoes till soft, strain and add the soda. Melt butter 
in double boiler, add flour, and when smooth, add the milk grad- 
ually. Cook 10 minutes. Add seasoning and hot strained to- 
matoes last. Serve at once. If the soup should curdle, beat it 
with a Dover egg beater. 

OYSTER SOUP 

1 qt. milk }i pt. oysters 

2 tsp. salt 2 tbsp. butter 
Pepper to taste 

Clean the oysters. Heat the milk. Boil and skim the oyster 
liquor till clear, and add to the milk. Add oysters, and cook till 
the edges curl and the oysters are plump, but do not boil. Add 
butter and seasoning and serve at once. If the soup has to stand 
before being served, make the soup, but do not add the oysters 
until just a few minutes before serving. 

TO CLEAN OYSTERS 

Place oysters in a strainer over a pan or bowl. Pour over 
them 1 c. of cold water for each quart of oysters. Pass the 
fingers over each oyster to remove bits of shell and sea weed. 
Do not throw away the liquor drained off as it may be boiled, 
skimmed, and used in making oyster soup. 

POTATO CHOWDER 

6 potatoes cut in cubes 1 pt. water ' 

%. lb. salt pork, diced 1 tsp. salt-pepper 

■ 2 tbsp. onion chopped. 1 pt. milk 

Cook pork and onion together until a delicate brdwn. . Add 
the water and potatoes. Cook until potatoes are tender, but not 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES i 29 



mashed. Add milk and thicken with 1 tbsp. flour, wet in cold 
water. Season. Serve hot. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 

1 slice onion 2 tbsp. butter 

1 stalk celery 1 tbsp. flour 

1 pt. milk ' J^ tsp. salt 

1/2. c. mashed potatoes " - >4 tsp. celery salt 
1 tsp. chopped parsley 

Cook onion and celery with the milk in double boiler or stew 
pan 15 minutes and add mashed potatoes. Rub through a strainer. 
Melt butter in double boiler, add flour, and when smooth,^ the milk 
which has Been strained. Season, cook about 5 minutes and 
serve. Add chopped parsley just before serving. 

VEGETABI,!; SOUP WITHOUT STOCK 

1 sHce (J4 lb.) salt pork J4 c- rice 

diced ' 3 qts. water 

^ c. chopped onions 2 tsp. salt 

1 c. chopped carrot 2 c. diced potatoes 

J4 c. chopped turnip 1 pt. tomatoes 
1 stalk celery, chopped 

Brown salt pork and onions lightly, add carrot, turnip, celery, 
rice, water and salt. Cook until vegetables are tender. Add 
potatoes and tomatoes. Cook until potatoes are tender, then sea- 
son to taste. Noodles may be added with the potatoes. 

vegetable; SOUP with stock 
1 qt. stock Yi c. celery 

1 pt. boiling water ^ 1 tbsp.. rice 

Yi, c. carrot Y2. c, tomatoes 

J4 c. turnip Y^ c. potatoes 

Y^ c. onion J4 c. corn 

Cut vegetables into uniform pieces. Boil carrot, -turnip, rice, 
onion and celery in water 20 minutes. Add other vegetables and 
cook until tendef. Add stock and salt and pepper to taste. Boil 



30 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

up once and serve. Rice, barley or macaroni may also be added, 
with the vegetables. 

If stocjk is not used, cut 2 lbs. of meat in small pieces and put 
2 qts. cold water on it, add spice and cook 5 or 6 hours." Strain, 
add vegetables and cook y^ hour and serve. 

CROUTONS 

Cut stale bread into one-half inch slice, remove crusts-, and 
cut bread into one-half inch cubes. Brown in a hot oven and 
serve with soup. 

CHEBSB STICKS 

Cut" bread in slices, spread thinly with butter.- Cut in inch 
strips, sprinkle with grated or sliced cheese and bake till a delicate- 
brown. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 31 

CHAPTER yi. 

sauce;s 
table for making sauces 



Ingredients 


Liquid 


Thickening 


Fat 


Use 


Proportions 


1 c. 


1 tbsp'. 


1 tbsp.. 


Cream soup 




1 c. 


2 tbsp. 


2 tbsp. 


Creamed meats 
Creamed vegetables 
Scalloped dishes 




1 c. 


3 tbsp. 


3 tbsp. 


Souffles 




1 c. 


4 tbsp. 


4 tbsp. 


Croquettes 



white; sauce 
White sauces are made from flour, butter, milk, and season- 
ing. There are four classes of white sauces ■.thin, medium, thick, 
and very thick. The difference between them is the amount of 
flour and fat they contain.. 

Each ingredient has a purpose in the sauce: — 

1. Flour Thickening 

2. Butter Smoothness, Richness 

3. Milk Quantity, Liquid 

4. Seasoning , Flavor 

In combining flour or corn starch with hot liquid, mix it first 
with a little cold water, sugar or fat to separate the grains, then 
add hot liquid. ^ This will prevent lumping, since the heat will 
break all the grains open at the same time. When only a part 
of the grains burst open, they stick to the other grains and so 
make lumps. 

But more than this, the grains inside of the lumps are pre- 
vented from breaking open and are not cooked, and therefore not 
digestible. For the same reason, they must ' be stirred while 
cooking to prevent lumping. 

There are three methods of combining white sauces : 

1. Melt butter in double boiler or sauce pan, add flour, stir 
to smooth paste, add milk slowly and stir constantly until it 
begins to thicken. Add seasoning. 



32 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



2. Make a paste with flour and butter -in a cup, have milk 
heating in a double boiler, add the hot milk to the paste slowly, 
stirring constantly. Put the mixture into the boiler and cook 
until thickened. Add seasoning. Test. - 

' 3. Mix the .flour with cold water until smooth, add hot milk 
slowly, then the butter, cook altogether in a douJble boiler until 
smooth. Add seasoning. 

BROWN SAUCES 

For brown sauces, butter should be stirred until well browned, 
flour added and stirred with the butter until both are browned, 
before the liquid is added. Milk, water, stock or strained tomato 
may be used as the liquid of a sauce. Seasonings may be added 
to taste. 

BROWN SAUCH 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tbsp. chopped pepper 

3 tbsp. flour J4 tsp. salt 

J/^ slice onion 3^. tsp. pepper 

1 c. stock 

Cook onion in butter until slightly 'browned, remove the onion 
and stir butter constantly .until well browned; add flour mixed 
with seasoning, and brown these, then add stock gradually. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

Make a medium thick white sauce with 2 tbsp. butter, 2 
tbsp. flour ; 1 c. milk and seasoning. Add % c. grated or sliced- 
chees.e. Stir till melted and pour over rice balls. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUGE 

Ys c. butter lyi c hot water 

3 tbsp. flour J^ tsp. salt 

3^ tsp. pepper , , 

Melt one-half, of the butter, add flour with seasoning, pour 
on gradually the hot water. Boil five minutes and add remaining 
butter. 

•EGG SAUCE 

To drawn butter sauce add two hard cooked eggs, cut in j4- 
inch slices. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES' 33 



holI/ANDAISh; sauce 

J4 c. butter ^ c. boiling water 

Yolks of 2 to. 4 eggs Juice of Y^ lemon 

Few grains cayenne pepper >4 tsp. salt 

Cream the butter, add yolk of eggs one at a time, thoroughly 
beating them into the butter; add salt, cayenne and water and' 
cook in a double-boiler, stirring constantly. When thick add 
lemon juice and remove from the fire. The number of yolks 
used depends upon the consistency desired in the sauce. Lift the 
upper part of the boiler from the water from time to time to 
prevent the sauce from curdling, caused by over-cooking. 

MOCK HOIvLANDAISB SAUCE 



1J4 tbsp. butter 


1 egg 


1J4 tbsp. flour 


1 c. milk 


Yi lemon 


' 1 tsp. salt 



Make the same as white sauce, adding unbeaten egg just 
before taking from the fife, and stirring until well thickened. 
Add the lemon juice before serving. 

MAITRE d'HOTEI. butter 

Gream together 3 tablespoons butter, a little pepper, and J4 
tbsp. chopped parsley then add drop by drop J^ tbsp. lemon juice. 

SAUCE TARTARS 

Yz c. Mayonnaise dressing 1 tsp. chopped pickle 

1 tsp. parsley, washed and 1 tsp. chopped olives 

chopped 

Mix parsley, pickle and olives ; add them to the Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

MOCK SAUCE TARTARE 

- Substitute >4 c. cooked salad dressing for the Mayonnaise 
dressing in the above recipe. 



34 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



TOMATO SAUCi; 

2 c. tomatoes 2 tbsp. flour 

Yt. c. water • yi tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. minced onion Pepper 

yi bay leaf ^4 tsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. butter 

Cook tomatoes,, sugar, water, onion and bay. leaf : 10 min. 
Strain. Melt butter, stir in flour, then the . strained tomato and 
thicken Hke a white sauce. Season. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 35 



CHAPTER VII. 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables are, an essential food because through them the 
body is supplied with three most important health and strength 
elements, cellulose, mineral salts and vitamin'es. 
Classification according to composition: — 

Vegetables containing a high per cent of protein ; — 

1. Dried peas ' 3. Lentils 

2. Dried beans , 4. Peanuts 

', Vegetables containing a high per cent of carbohydrates; — 

1. White potatoes 6. Corn 

2. Sweet potatoes 7. Beets 

' . 3. Lima beans 8. Carrots 

4. Parsnips 9. Turnips 

5. Peas 10. Onions 

Watery vegetables are rich in yitamines, and mineral salts, 

especially Calcium, Phosphorus, and Iron; — , 

1. Cabbage 6. Dandelions ' 

2. Asparagus 7. Lettuce 

3. Celery 8. Rhubarb 

4. Chard 9. Spinach v - 

5. Cucumber 10. Turnips 

GENERAL RULES EOR PREPARING AND COOKING VEGETABLES: — 

Wash thoroughly, paf«, peel or scrape, according to the 
vegetable. Let starid in cold water until they are to be cooked, 
to keep them crisp and from becoming discolored. 

1. Cook all fresh vegetables in boiling salted water. 

2. Cook strong-flavored vegetables in a large amount of 
' water, in an uncovered vessel, 

(a) to retain the color -and texture, 

(b) to allow the strong odor to pass off in the steani, 
thus prevent its being re-absorbed by the vege- 
tables. 



36 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



3. Cook all mild-flavored vegetables in just enough water 
to cover. 

4. Many vegetbles are served uncooked in the forrn of 
salads. 

TIMB TABI,E FOR COOKIlSfG VEGETABLES 

(Note: — Courft from the time, the water begins to boil.) 

VEGETABLE ■i./.Jl.V '■'^'^^ 

Asparagus 1 '^^ • ■ -20 to 30 min. 

Beans (string) • .60 min. 

Beans (shelled) 1 to 1 J^ hours 

Beets 1 to 4 hours 

Brussels sprouts 20 to 30 min. 

Cabbage ' 30 min. 

Carrots 2Q to 45 min. 

Cauliflower . . 20 min. 

Celery J4 hour 

Corn ' 10 min. 

Greens (Spinach) 20 to 30 min. 

Onions ' .30 to 60 min. 

Parsnips 30 to 45 min. 

Oyster Plant 45 to 60 min. 

Peas 20 to 30 min. 

Potatoes (white) ' 30 to 45 min. 

, Potatoes (sweet) 30 to 45 anin. 

Squash (winter) 30 to 45 min. 

Tomatoes .' 15 to 20 min. 

Turnips 30 to 45 min. 

■Kohl-rabi 30 min. ^ 

CREAMED AND ESCALLOPED VEGETABLES 

Creamed vegetables: — 

Wash and pare or scrape such vegetables as carrots, white 
turnips, celery, or potatoes. Cut into one-half inch cubes or sHces 
and boil in salted water until tender. Drain, add white sauce and 
serve hot. 

For escalloped vegetaibles, put alternate layers of vegetables 
and white sauce in buttered baking dish, sprinkle with buttered 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 37 

crumbs, and bake in oven until heated through, and browned. 
Use one-half as much white sauce as the amount.of , vegetables. 

TO ^UTTER CRUMBS 

^ 1 tbsp. butter to 1 c. crumbs. Melt butter, add crumbs and 
stir lightly with a fork until all crumbs are evenly coated. 

POTATOES 

Average composition : — 

Edible portion :— Water 78%; Protein 2%; Starch 18%; 
Ash 1%. 

BAK^D POTATOES 

Choose those. of equal size scrub th'^ with a brush, and put 
them in a hot oven to bake from 30 to 40 minutes or until soft. 
When baked crack open the skin to allow the steam to escape. 
The skins sho)uld be plump (not shriveled), andthe inside white 
and mealy. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Wash, pare if imperfect or old ; if not uniform in size, divide 
the larger ones. 'Put in boiling salted water and cook for 20 to 
30 minutes, or until tender. As soon as cooked, drain off the 
water, and shake the uncovered kettle to let the steam escape. 

RICED POTATOES 

Put the boiled potatoes through the strainer or ricer into a 
hot dish from which they are . to be served. , 

MASHED POTATOES 

Mash the potatoes in the kettle in which they are boiled, add 
salt, butter and milk. -Beat till white and creamy, pile lightly on 
a warm dish. 

STUPEED POTATOES 

1 potato 1 tbsp. milk 

Yi. tsp. butter salt, and pepper 

Bake potato, cut a slice from the end, or cut in halves length- 
wise and scoop out the inside." Mash and add seasoning; beat 



38 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



until light. Refill the skins with^this mixture, dot with butter, 
and set in a hot oven about 10 min.' Chopped meat, grated cheese 
or parsely may be added for variety. When cut length-wise they 
are sometimes called "Potatoes on the half-shell," or 'JCanoes." 

. POTATO CAKES 

Shape cold, mashed potatoes in small cakes, about J^ inch 
thick and roll in flour. Grease a hot frying pan, put in the cakes, 
brown one side, adding fat as is needed to prevent burning, turn 
and brown on the other side. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

' Wash and pare potatoes, cut in eighths lengthwise, and soak 
a few minutes in col^ water. Take from the water, dry between 
towels, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle 
with salt. For deep fat frying, see page 63. ' ' 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES 
Pare five or si± potatoes and cut in thin slices ; place these in 
a buttered baking dish in layers; sprinkle the layers with salt and 
pepper, onion juice, if desired, and finely chopped parsely, dredge 
with flour and add a few bits of butter. Pour just enough hot 
milk over the potatoes to cover them and bake in a moderate oven ' 
about an hour and a half. Cold boiled potatoes may be used, 
when only one-half the tinie. is allovved for cooking, and less milk 
is required. 

BAKED SWEET'POTATOES 

Prepare and bake the same as white potatoes. 

f 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash, pare and parboil five medium-sized sweet potatoes. 
Drain, cut into lengthwise slices about J^ inch thick and lay in 
a baking dish. Spread thickly with a syrup made from ^c. 
butter, Yz c. brown sugar and, % c. hot water. Bake until tender, 
basting frequently with the syrup in the pan. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST \ 

Cut off the woody part and scrape the lower part of the stalks. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 39 

Wash well and tie in bunches. Stand on end in a tall sauce-pan. 
Add boiling water, sufficient to come up to the heads of the stalks. 
Cook until tender. Arrange the bunches on dainty slices of but- 
tered toast. Season with butter and salt or add a thin white 
sauce. 

BEETS 
Wash and cook whole until tender; leave on two or three 
inches of the top and do not pierce with a fork, (to keep the 
color).. Put in Cold water, pare, slice, reheat and add seasoning 
and butter, or they may be served cold in vinegar. 

^ ' ' '■"■, si'. 

' ;,' ,rV:, ■■■■'■ ,- 

CAULIFI^OWER ' • 

Remove leaves, cut off stalks, and soak thirty minutes in cold 
water to cover. Cook until tender, in boiling salted water, drain, 
serve whole, or separate flowers. Serve with butter, Hollandaise 

or white sauce. 

I 

CORN ON THE COB 

Carefully remove the, husks and all of the silk from the corn. 
Cover with boiling unsalted water, and cook- 10 min. or until 
tender. If salt is added to the water, the corti turns a deep yel- 
low colori 

ERESH PEAS 

Remove the pods as soon as possible after picking. Wash. 
Use ohly enough boiling water to cover, and cook in an un- 
covered kettle about 20 minutes. Do not pour off the water, add 
salt, butter, milk or cream. 

SPINACH 

Remove roots, carefully pick over, discarding wilted leaves,, 
and wash in several waters, to be sure that it is free from all 
sand. When young and tender, put in a saucepan, allow to heat 
gradually, and cook until tender, in its own juice; (extra water 
is not needed). Old spinach is better cooked in boiling salted 
water, allowing 2 qts. of water to one peck of spinach. Drain 
thoroughly, and season with butter, salt and pepper. 



40 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



TOMATOES 

Plunge into boiling water to loosen the skin, drain, and peel, 
cut into pieces, add a small onion and cook over moderate heat. 
A long, slow cooking improves the flavor; Just before removing 
from the stove, add butter and seasoning. They may be, thick- 
ened with bread or cricker crumbs, or sweetened with sugar. 

ESCAI<i:,0PED EGG PLANT 

Peel and Slice a medium-sized egg plant. Soak at least 1 hour 
in acidiiated water (1 tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. vinegar to .1 qt. water). 
. Mince two medium-sized o^nions. Cook lightly in 4 tbsp. 
drippings, or in butter. Put egg plant and onions in a buttered 
baking dish in alternate layers, seasoning each layer with salt and 
pepper. Pour over 1 pt. tomatoes. Cover top with buttered 
crumbs. Bake slowly about 1 hr. or until tender. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 41 



CHAPTER VIII. 

MEAT 

Meat should immediately be removed from the paper in which 
it was wrapped. Trim, and wipe with a damp cloth. Never 
wash meat by letting it stand in water, as this will draw out the 
juice. ■ ' ' 

Meat should be covered aiid kept in a cool place. 

Only tender cuts of meat should be broiled, pan-broiled, or 
roasted. First, sear the surface, then reduce the temperature as 
prolonged, intense heat hardens the protein. 

After the meat has been seared never pieirce it with a fork, 
as this allows the juice to escape. 

For roasting, the oven should be very hot at first, then reduce 
the temperature. \ . 

Tough cuts of meat require long slow, cooking with moist 
heat. There are three methods of cooking meat with moisture : 

1. To retain the juice. 

2. To extract the juice. 

3. To extract part and to retain part of the' juiCe. 

1. To retain the juice, as in pot roast, the meat is left whole, 
seared, then a small quantity of boiling water ad^ed. Cook be- 
low the boiling point ,for several hours. 

2. To extract the juice as in making soup, cut the nieat in 
small pieces, exposing as large a surface as possible and soak in 
cold water one-half hour or longer. Cook below boiling point. 

3. To extract some of the juice in the broth and retain the 
' rest in the meat, as in making a stew, cut the meat in pieces, ,sear, 

and cover with boiling water, and cook slowly. 

TIME TABLE EOR COpklNG MEATS 

Roast Beef (rare) . . . . , IS min. to the lb. 

Roast Beef (well done) ........... :20 min. to the lb. 

Roast Pork ' 30 min. to the lb. 

Roast Veal 30 min. to the lb. 

Mutton Leg 10 to 12 'min. to the lb.. 

Roast Chicken 20 to 30 min. to the. lb. 



42 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



Turkeys (10 lbs.) 3 hrs. 

Fish, long and thin (6 to 8 lbs.) ■ • ■ 1 hr. 

Fish, thick (6 to 8 lbs.) 1^ to 2 hrs. 



STOCK 



6 lbs. shin of beef 2 sprigs of parsley 

3 qts. cold water ^ carrots 



Yi. tsp. peppercorns turnips 

6 cloves . onion 

J4 bayleaf cdery 
1 tbsp. salt 



► Yz c. each cut in dice 



Wipe beef, and cut the lean meat in inch cubes! Use the 
marrow from the bone in which to brown % of the meat. Put 
remaining; % of the meat and bone and fat in the soup kettle, 
add water, and let stand for 30 min., add browned meat, and heat 
gradually to the boiling point. As scum rises it shoujd be re- 
moved. Cover and cook slowly six hours, keeping below the 
boiling point. During cooking add the vegetaibles and season- 
ings, cook one and one-half hours. Stand and cool as quickly 
as possible. 

Beef is the meat from ^teer, ox, or cow. It is the most 
nutritious of meats and is the most used. Beef is best when 
taken from an animal about four years old. Young meat, while 
tender and easily mas'ticated, is very apt to lack the flavor of 
more mature animals. The flavor of beef depends largely upon 
the age, the breed, its food, the condition of the animal at the 
time of slaughter, and the manner and the length t>f time it is 
kept. Meat which is allowed to hang and "ripen" develops added 
flavors. 

, Good beef is firm, when first cut, purplish red in color, turn- 
ing to a bright red upon exposure £o the air. When tender, it is 
fine grained. The fat is a cream or straw color. 



FOR ELEMENfARY GRADES 



43 



BEEF 




l-;-Sirl&in 
S — Itdn 
3 — Sump 
4 — Round 
5 — Tbp-sirloin 
6 — Prime Ribs 
7— Blade 
. 8— Chuck 



9 — Neck 
10— Brisket 
11 — Cross-ribs 
12— Plate 
13 — Navel 
14 — Flank 
16 — Shoulder 
16 — Leg (shin) 



OTHER PARTS OF BEEF USED AS EOOD 



Brain, used for croquettes. ''}."' 

Tongue, used for boiling (smoked or fresh). 

Heart,. to be stuffed and baked. 

Liver, to be sauted. 

Tripe (fourth stomach), to be pjckeled or sauted fresh. 

Suet, to be used for puddings and mincemeat. 

Tail, to be used for soup. 



44 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



Name of Cut 

Neck 

Chuck 

10th, 11th, 



Use 

^Stews 

* Soups 
Braised, Pot 
Roasts, Stews, 



iSith, 13th ribs Steaks 



Blade 

7th, 8th, 9th 

ribs 

Prime ribs 
first 6 ribs 



Loin 

All between\ 
1st rib and 
rear ,end of 
hip bone 



Roasts 



Fine roasts 



Steaks 



Roas<ts 



Quality of Meat 

Juicy but tough 

Tough 



Lean,, mostly ten- 
der, but contain!s 
gristle and bone 

Very tender with 
^ considprahle bone 



Lean, tender 

1st — Porter House 

2nd — Hip Bone 

sirloin 

3rd— Flat Bone 

sirloin 

4th — Round Bone 

sirloin 

Tough with con- 
siderable bone 



Rump Pot Roasts 

Bacjk of loin Corned 
jB Bailed 

1. Top Round Braising ' Solid juicy. 
Inside of thigh Pot Roast fairly tender, 

S. Bottom Beef Tea Similar to top 

Rountj. Out- Fair Roasts round but tougher 

side of thigh. Steaks 

Top Sirloin Fairly good steakSolid juicy 
Between Sirloin Excellent Pot 
and round Roasts 



Brisket 
Between the 
fore-legs 



Cross- ribs, lies 

across the ribs 



Corned *. -Vi 
Boiled -W 



Pot Roasts 

Stews 



Shoulder 



Plate 

On side below 

ribs 



Steaks 

Roasts 

Corned 

Stews 



Layers of juicy, 
well flavored 
meat over fat 
and bone 

Fairly juicy 
Tough 



Layers of fat and 
lean with thin 
bone 



Time for Cookinsr How to Purchase 

2 % to 3 hrs. In pieces by pound 

6 to 7 hours. 

2 to 3 hours In pieces by pound 

Steak %-in. th-ick Slices 

4 to 6 min. 



15 to SO min. 
to pound 



15 to SO min; 
to pound 



%-in. thick 
4 to 6 inin. 

15 to 20 min. 
to pound 



2 to 3 hours 



2 to 3 hours 

Steak % -in- 
thick, 4 to 6 
inin. 

%-in. thick, 
4 to 6 min. 
.15 to SO min. 
to pound ■ 

2 to 3 hours 



' 15 to 30 min. 
2 to 3 hours 



In pieces by poun^i ■ 
blade removed 



In pieces with , ■ 
parts of two or 
more ribs. , Boned, 
and rolled 

Jn slices, one to 
two inches thick 
In pieces by 
pound 



In pieces by pound 

In pieces by pound 
In slices 

In slices 

In pieces by pound 

In a piece by pound 
In pieces by pound 



Steak %-in. thick Slices 

4 to 6 min. 

20 min. to pound In pieces by pound 



2 to 3 hours 



In pieces by pound 



ROAST BE^F 

Wash meat quickly, sear the cut sides, place in a dripping 
pan and sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Place in a hot oven. 
When the flour- begins to brown, reduce the heat of the oven 
slightly and baste with the fat in the pan. If the fat begins to 
burn, add a little boiling water. Baste every 10 min., turning the 
mea^t during the roasting. Roast IS min. to the lb. if liked rare, 
20 min. to the lb., if well done. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 45 



BROILED STBAK 

Grease the broiler with a bit of fat from the meat. Wash 
meat quickly. Place the thickest part of the steak near the middle 
■ of 1 the broiler. Turn the meat every ten seconds until seared, 
then less often. When well . browned on both sides, put on a 
warm platter. Season withsalt, pepper and butter. , For medium 
cooked steak, 1 inch thick, alloW' from 10 tq 15 niin. 

POT ROAST 

Sear the cut sides of the meat in a hot kettle, add 1 c. of hot 
water, season with salt and pepper, and keep just below the boil- , 
ing point. Add water only as necessary to keep from burning. 
Cover closely and cook slowly until very tender, or from two to 
three hours. Remove meat and make a gravy in the kettle. 

GRAVY 

Pour ofif all but 4 tbsp. of fat from the kettle. Add 4 tbsp. 
of flour and stir until brown. Add slowly 2 c. boiling water. 
Cook until thick and smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 

SWISS STEAK 

2 lbs. round steak 1 to Ij^ in. thick 
' ^ c. ilour ,1 tsp. salt 

1^ onion 2 tbsp. fat 

Pound the steak with flour and add salt. Brown onion in the 
fat in the frying pan. Add meat and brown on both sides. 
Barely cover with water and bake from 1>4 to 2 hrs. or until 
tender. Peppers, tomatoes, onions, peas or mushrooms may be 
added. Reduce liquor to make a thick brown s,aiice,.t,o pour over 
the meat. 

CRE^AMED DRIED BEEE 

2 tbsp.' butter 1 pt. milk 

14 lb. dried beef Vs tsp. pepper 

4 tbsp. flour Toast 

Saute dried beef in hot butter till it curls. Remove from 
fire, sprinkle the flour over beef and stir till it disappeap. Pour 
in milk and cook till thick, stirring constantly. ,Add pepper. Pour 
over toast and serve at once. 



46 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



MEAT tOAF 
2 lb. lean beef or veal 1 or 2 beaten eggs 

Ys lb. salt pork ' 2 tsp. salt 

6 butter crackers ^ tsp. pepper , 

Chop meat and salt pork, add rolled crackers, beaten eggs, 
salt and pepper. Pack in a small br^ead pan and bake slowly 2 
hrs. L,et cool in the pan. Slice thin in serving. - 

VEAI, '. 

Veal is the meat of a calf from six to eight weeks old. It 
may be obtained throughout the year, but it is better in the spring. 
The best veal is pale pink or flesh color with clear white fat. 
White veal or that from a' calf less than six weeks old is unfit 



VEAL 




Tender 



Tiin,e for Cookinn How to Purchase 



Leg (hind) 



Knuckle 
Lower part of 
hind leg 

Ribs 

Shoulder . 
Fore leg and 
part of ribs 

Neck 

Breast- . 

Head 



Cutlets, fried 



Soup 



Fried 

Roasted 
Braised 



Stews 

Stuffed and 
Roasted ' 

Soup 



Chops, 15 to SO 
min., % hr. to 
the pound 



No waste. Most 20 to 30 min. 
valuable part of 
the calf 



Gelatinous - 

Tender 
Tender 

Gristly 

Bony and some 
fat 

Tough 



2 hours 

20 to 30 min. 
% hr. to lb. 

2 hours 

1 tol% hrs. 

3 hours 



Sliced in chops or 
sold in roasting ' 
pieces 

Sliced into cutlets 



Whole 

Chops 
Whole - 

-Cut in pieces 
Whole 

Cut in pieces 



FOR ELEMENTARY- GRADES 47 

to eat. Veal has but little juice, ilavor or nutriment, and should 
be thoroughly cooked, as it is, not wholesome when underdone. 
Veal should' be eaten ,soon after it is killed and dressed. It is 
lacking in fat, therefore some form of fat should be used in 
cooking. 

" ^ VEAI< BIRDS 

Cut veal steaks into strips 6 inches long and 3 inches wide; 
cover with dressing, roll up and skewer into shape or tie with a 
string. Put in a roaster, dredge with flour, and sprinkle with 
dots of butter, and sear. Cpver the bottom of the pan -with hot 
water or milk, and ;bake in a moderate over 45 min., or until 
meat is tender. 

' BREADBD VEAL '. . 

Cut veal steak in pieces suitable for serving, sprinkle ' with , 
salt and pepper, and, roll in fat-proof coating. Saute in hot lard. 
Chops may also be used. 

BAKED BREADBD VSAL / , 

Place veal steaks in dripping pan, season with salt and pepper, 
cover with buttered and seasoned crumbs. Bake in a fairly hot 
oven about 30 niin. or until tender. Add a small amount of water . 
ifcrumbs brown too quickly. Serve with tprtiato sauce. 

SAUTED VEAL IvIVER 

Have liver cut into thin slices. Par-boil 5 min.; drain, re- 
move the tough outer skin; , season, dip into flour, ^aute in hot 
fat. A little cut onion may be added if desired. 

VEAL STEW AND DLfMPLINGS 

2 lbs. veal ^ For gravy : — 

2 tsp. salt ' 2 tbsp. flour 

Pepper 2 tbsp. cold water 

1 onion sliced 

4. small potatoes 

Rinse veal quickly, cut in pieces, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
add onion and cover with boiling water. Boil until tender or 
allow it to simmer from one to two hours. Twenty minutes 
before stew is done, put in the potatoes. Mix dumplings, quickly 
and drop on top of nieat and potatoes, allowing' ten minutes for 
them to cook. Gravy may be made by adding the thickening to 
the juice left in the kettle. 



48 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



DUMPLINGS 

1 pt. flour 4 tsp. baking power 

1 tsp. salt 1 scant c. milk 

Mix dry ingredients, stir in the milk gradually to make a soft 
dough. Drop quickly by the spoonful into- the boiling stew, let- 
ting them rest- on the meat and potatoes. Cover closely to keep 
in the steam. Steam just 10 min. without lifting the cover. 

MUTTON 

Mutton comes from sheep about three years old. It, should 
hang for two or three- weeks after killing to ripen. Good " 
mutton is fine grained an(f a dull red color,. and the fat is white, 



StUTTON OR. LAMB 




Nmme of Cut 

JLoin 

All between 1st i 
rib and rear end 
of 'hip bone 



Legs 
Includes rump 



Ribs 



Use 

Roasted 



Whole, 
Roasted or 
boiled Chops, 
broiled 



Quality of Meat Time for Cooking How to Purchase 



Contains tender- Chops about SO 
loin, has less .minutes 



bone 

than rib chops, 

therefore more 

economical 

Fine solid meat 



Roasts, 15 or 
20 min. to lb. 



Whole 20 min. to 



Chops pan broil Tender 



J '^ the pound 

'•' Chops 20 min. ;• 

Chops about 20 



Chops 

Two whole loins 

called "Saddle of 

mutton" 



Whole or by lb. 
Chops 



Chops 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



49 



hard and flaky. If the skin comes off easily, the mutton is sure 
to be good. Mutton ranks next to beef in nutrition and the broth 
is especially good for invalids. 

L,amb is the name given to the meat of lambs. It should 
be eaten soon after it is killed. When it is killed from 6 weeks 
to three months old, it is called spring lamb; when one year old, 
a yearling. The flesh should be lighter red than that of mutton 
and the bone red. It may be obtained as early as February, but 
it is scairce until Ma.rch. ■ 

PORK 

Pork is the name given to the flesh of a pig or hog. It 
should be easten soon after it has been killed and dressed. Good 




1 — Ham 

|Z \ Loin 

4 — Ribs 

S — Salt Pork and Bacon 



6— Shoulder 

7 — ■Jo'wl 

8 & 9— Hocks 

10 — Feet 

11 — Tail Piece, Sausage 



t of Cut U«e 



I/(an 



Pan>broiled 
Roasted 



Ham Tpsually cured, 

Hind leg and salted and 
.parts corres- smioked, then 
ponding to boiled-or sliced 

rump and round and pan broiled 
Sometimes 
,f pasted fresh , 



Quality of Meal Time for Cooking How to Purchate 

Chops,«0 niin. ■ Chops and 
Tender and fairly Roast % hr. to 
lean . pound 

Solid lean with Boiled, i to 
layer pf fat, half 5 hours 
an inch thick or 
more on one side 



r&asting 
pieces 

Whole in halves 
oir sliced (after 
being smoked) 



Back 

Close to back- 
bone 

Shoulder 
Includes fore- 
leg 

Flank 

S^t pork and 

Bacon 



Used for frying, 
fljavoring, lard- 
' ing, etc. 

Boiling 



Pan broil 



All fat 



Similar to ham 4 to 5 hours 
but not so good 

Fat with streaks B to 10 ihin. 
lean 



Cut into strips 



Cured whole or 
sold fresh 



The piece or slice^ 



50 HOME ECONOMICS COOK ROOK 

pork should be pale red in color, firm and the fat white and clear. 
Fresh pork . is hard to digest, but is made more wholesome by 
salting and smoking. 

Pork should be thoroughly cooked and eaten only in cold 
weather, as it is more liable to disease 'than any other meat. 

Pork has more fat than any other meat. The leaf lard comes 
from leaf-shaped pieces of solid fat which lie just inside the flank. 

BACON 

Use thin slices *of bacon from which the rind has been cut. 
Put into a pan and cook slowly, turning as necessary. The fat 
should not be allowed to smoke and bum. Bacon may be broiled 
by placing it on a broiler under the gas flame, or it may be cooked 
in the oven. 

All bacon fat should be strained and saved for cooking pur- 
poses. 

When the bacon has been properly cooked the cold fat is 
almost white. 

HAM KENTUCKY STYI,E 

Select a piece of ham one inch thick. Sprinkle J4 tsp. dry 
mustard in the bottom of a pan, then a little brown sugar, and a 
little pepper, put in the meat, cover with brown sugar and add 
milk to come Y^ of the way up the side of the meat. Cover and 
bake J^ hr. or until tender. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS 

Wipe chops clean and put into a hot frying-pan, without 
grease. Turn as soon as seared. Brown nicely, on both sides. 
Put on warm platter. Season. Beefsteak may be; cooked in the 
same way. ' 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 51 



CHAPTER IX. 



FISH 

Fish may be classified in two general classes : Fresh water 
and salt water fish. 

Fresh water fish are more abundant in the local markets 
though many of the more popular sea fish may be obtained. 

The term fish is usually meant to include oysters, clams, 
crabs, lobsters, etc. ' • 

• Fresh' fish has firm flesh, bright eyes and red gills. It should 
be kept on or hear ice as it decays quickly. If fish is to be kept 
for any time it should be cleaned and sprinkled with a little salt 
before putting it away. - ' 

Fish are prepared for the market in various ways : 

1. So they can be shipped long distances in good condition. 

2. To give different flavors to make a variety for the diet. 

3. To prevent them from decaying and so that people in one 
locality may have fish native to a distant locality. 

Methods of preserving fish : %' - ' 

1. Salting, smoking, drying 3. Pickling with spices , 

2. Canning- in' oil , 4. Cold storage 
Preserved fish are not so easily digested as fresh fish and the 

food value is lessened in some instances. Salt hardens the fibres 
in most fish. 

PRBPARATION AND COOKING 

Fish should be perfectly fresh. If fish is frozen, thaw just 
before Using, by placing in cold water. 

Remove scales by running a dull knife or spoon from the tail 
to the head, snapping the scales ' off. Wet the hands befpre 
touching fish and the odor will come;" off more easily. Dip the 
hands in salt so that the fi^h will not slip; hold the fish by the tail; 

To prevent the flesh from falling apart : — 

1. Wrap in cheese cloth when boiling. 

2. Coat with egg and crumbs when frying. 

3. Place on Strips of buttered cheesecloth when baking. 



52 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CLASSIFICATION 
Scaly- 
White fleshed fish, the fat is secreted in the liver; not pro- 
nounced in taste. 
Halibut, Haddock, Cod, Flounder. (Haddock may be 
secured in the East all of the year.) 

Oily- 
Have fat deposited throughout the body, are much richer 
and have some dark liiu^cle. They do not require a 
dressing as they are so rich. , , 

Shad, blue, mackerel, smelts, trout. , 
Shell— 'i-jr ' '^■■' • 

Oyster, clams, muscles, lobsters, etc. 

TO BQNB A FISH 

Clean and skiii the fish before boning. Beginning at the tail, 
run a knife under the flesh close tjo the backbone and with 3, knife 
and finger follow the bone its entire length, thus removing half 
the flesh ; turn and remove the flesh from the other side. Pick 
out any small bones that may remain. Cod, Haddock and white 
fish are easily boned. ''' 

Handle fish carefully when cooking, as the flesh falls apart 
easily, and have all utensils well greased as skin sticks readily 
when heated. 

Cold cooked fish may be used in various wa^s, as creamed, 
scalloped and souffled. It must be carefully picked over, all skin 
and bone removed, and flaked with a silver fork. 

BAKED FISH 

Clean well. Stuff the fish, sew or skewer and lay on a strip 
of cloth in a baking pan. If not an oily fish, cut gashes on top, 
and put, strips of salt pork or bacon in them. Dredge with flour. 
Bake until well done and browned. Baste frequently. 

STUFFING FOR FISH 

Ic. bread crumbs J/g tsp. pepper 

2 tbsp. melted butter onion juice ( if desired) 

Yi tsp. salt 1 tbsp. parsley, cut fine 



FOR. ELEMENTARY GRADES " 53 



Mix in order given.'" A little water may be added if a moist 
dressing is, desired. 

FRIED FISH 

Clean fish, and wipe as dry as possible, sprinkle with salt, , 
dip in flour, crumbs, or granular cornmeal. Cook in a frying pan 
with a small amount of fat. /■ 

PLANKSD WHITE FISH 

Clean and bone a white fish. Lay it on a hot, buttered, hard- 
wqod plank one inch thick, flesh side up. Sprinkle , with salt and 
pepper and brush with melted butter. Bake in a hot oven 25 to 
30 min. 

If desired a bofder of mashed potatoes may be put around 
the fish a few minutes before it is done. Use a pastry bag and 
tube. 

Remove from the oven and garnish with "radish roses," 
"lemon fans," parsley, etc. Maitre d'Hotel Butter may be spread 
over the fish if desired. Serve on plank. 

' ^ r OYSTER COCKTAIL 

■ Look over and clean the oysters. Serve in cocktail' glasses 
with the cocktail sauce. 

COCKTAIIv SAUCE 

y2 tbsp. catsup ' 1 tbsp. vinegar 

1 tbsp. horseradish 1 tsp. minced onion 

1 tbsp. Worcestersthire Va tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. lemon juice Paprika 

, Allow 1 .tbsp. sauce to each cocktail of 6 or 7 oysters. This 
amount will serve six cocktails. • , 

CODFISH BAIvLS 

1 c. salt codfish . >4 egg 

2 c. diced potatoes, raw 34 tbsp. butter 

Shred codfish, add potatoes, cover with boiling water, cook 
until potatoes are tender. Drain, dry over the fire and mash. 
Add beaten egg and butter, shap^ in tbsp. and saute or fry m 
hot fat. Serve hot. They may be shaped in flat cakes and 
rolled in flour. 



54 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CREAMED CODFlSfl: 

%. lb. codfish 2 tbsp. butter 

1 pt. milk ' Pepper 

4 tbsp. flour 

Shred the codfish and remove all the bones. Cover witji cold 
water and boil 2 min. Drain and add the milk. Cream the 
butter and flour, add hot milk till thin enough to pour. Stir into 
the milk and codfish. Cook until it thickens. To make it richer 
and the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. Cook one minute and 
serve." 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

. 1 pt. oysters 4 tbsp. oyster liquor 

6 tbsp. milk, or enough 3 t.bsp. melted butter 

to moisten Salt 

: lj4 c. crumbs Pepper 

Stir the melted butter into the crunibs. Put in a baking dish 
a layer of oysters, prepared as for soup, then a layer of crumbs. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and add part of the milk and 
oyster liquor. Repeat, covering the top with crumbs. Bake 30 
minutes in a hot oven. Two layers of oysters are sufficient. If 
more are used, the center layer may be underdone. 

SALMON LOAF 

1 can salmon J^ c. bread crumbs 

2 eggs I Salt and cayenne pepper 
4 tbsp. melted butter , 

Mince fish fine, add butter, crumbs, beaten eggs and season- 
ing. Pour into buttered pans and bake or steam 1 hour. Serve 
vwith sauce. ' 

EISH TURBOT 

1 pt. milk 4 tbsp. butter 

4 tbsp. flour 2 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Remove bones and skin from fish and flake. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Make a white sauce with milk, butter and floUr. 



Season with salt and pepper and if desired a little minced onion. 
Remove from fire and add beaten eggs. Put a layer of fish in a 
baking dish, cover with sauce ; repeat until the dish is full, cover 
with buttered crumbs, -and bake until brown. A few drops of 
lemon juice sprinkled over the fish improves the flavor. 



56 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER X. 
poui,Try 

TO SEI-ECT A CHICKEN 

The flesh of poultry has less red blood and is drier than the 
flesh of animals. It is .not marbled with fat, as that is found in 
layers just inside the skin and around the intestines; Chicken is 
easily digested. It is found in market throughout the year. 
From March until June, the spring chickens are the best. 

Turkeys and ducks are best during the winter months. 

The best chickens have ^ soft, yellow feet, short thick legs, 
smooth moist skin, plump breast,, and the cartilage on the end of • 
the breast bone is soft and pliable. 

Hn feathers always indicate, a young bird, and long hair an 
older one. Older fowls have long thin necks and feet and sharjS 
scales; the end of the breast borie is hard, the flesh has a purplish 
tinge, and there is usually a large amount of fat. 

TO CLEAN POULTRY 

Singe by holding on a flame of any kind to remove long 
hairs. Cut off the head and draw out the pin feathers with a 
small pointed knife. , 

By putting the first two fingers under the skin close to the 
neck, the wind pipe may be easily found and removed ; alsb the 
crop, which is found fastened to the skin close to the breast. 
Draw down the neck skin and, cut, off neck close to the body, 
leaving skin enough to fasten under the back. 

Cut through the skin around the leg an inch and a half below 
the leg joint. Be careful not to cut the tendons; place the leg' at 
this cut on the edge of the board and snap the bone and pull off 
the foot with the tendons. In an old bird the tendons will have 
to be drawn out separately. 

Cut through, the skin below the breast bone large enough to 
admit the hand. Begin at the top and with the hand loosen the 
intestinal organs, keeping the hand close to the side, being careful 
not to break the gall bladder which is removed with the liver, 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 57 

being near it. Remove the lungs which are enclosed by the ribs 
on either side of the back bone; the kidneys in the hollow near 
the end of the back bone ; the heart found near the lungs ; and 
eggs if any. Remove the oil bag near the tail and wash the fowl 
thoroughly by letting water run through it. 

It there is adisagreeahle odor, wash in soda water. 

TO CLEAN THE GIBLETS 

The gizzard, heart and liver are known as {he giblets. Sepa- 
rate gall bladder from the liver, cutting off any liver that may 
have a greenish tinge. Remove the thin membrane, veins and 
clotted blood from around the heart. Cut fat and membrane 
• from the gizzard. Make a gash through the thickest part of the 
gizzard, cutting as far as the inner lining, leaving that unbroken. 
Remove this inner sack and discard it. Wash all giblets care- 
fully and thoroughly. 

TO CUT POULTRY 

Cut off the legs and wings at the joints. Separate the first 
and second. joint's. Cut off the tips of the wings." Make an in- 
• cision through. the skin below the breast bone and cut the mem- 
brane lying between the breast bone and the tail, down to the 
backbone on each. side. Break the backbone first below the ribs, 
cut through the cartilage dividing the ribs and separate the col- 
lar bone from the breast. 

CHICICEN FRICASSEE 

Cut up a chicken. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. 
Brown in butter or salt pork fat. Remove chicken add 4 tbsp. 
flour to the butter or fat in the pan and stir until smooth. Add 
gradually l^/^ c. boiling water or chicken stock. Put chicken 
back' into this sauce and simmer IS to 20 minutes. Before serv- 
ing add J^ c. cream and salt and pepper to taste. 

Old chickens must be stewed until tender before sauteing in 
the fat. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

Separate the fowl into joints and brown in butter, bacon or 
salt pork fat. Put in the casserole, adding Ij/^ c. of hot stock 
and over. Cook slowly for Ij^ hrs. Then add the vegetables. 



58 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

putting in those first that require the longest time to cook. The 
carrots and onions require a long time and canned vegetables a 
short time. When all are cooked, a well seasoned brown sauce 
should be made and added. Cook a few minutes and serve. 

. CREAMED CHICKEN ON TOAST 

1^ c. cold chicken cut fine 1 c. white sauce 

Heat the chicken in the sauce Serve on toast 

•ROAST CHICKEN 

Clean and stuff chicken. Sew up the incision. Rub all over, 
with soft butter and salt. Tie it into a compact shape, fastening . 
the legs and wings close to the body, dredge with flour, lay pieces- 
of salt pork over it. Place in a hot oven and when flour browns, 
baste with boiling water every 10 minutes. Turn chicken, that 
it may, brown easily. When the breast is tender the chicken is 
sufficiently' cooked. Roast a 4-lb: chicken about 1>^ to 2 hours. 
Use as little water as possible. , 

STUFFING 

1 c. crumbs M'c. boiling water 

4 tbsp. chopped salt pork or Salt and pepper 

mutton Sage, marjoram or thyme 

Season crumbs, add water and salt pork and stuflf the fowl, ' 
pressing in lightly and sewing incision. 

i 

GRAVY 

To the fat in the pan, add 1 c. boiling water and 1 c. milk. 
Thicken with 4 tbsp. flour wet in cold water. Cook till thick, or 
make like roast beef gravy. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 59 

CHAPTER XL 

USB OF LBFTOVERS AND MADE DISHES 

Attention should be given to the care of all foods that is left 

' over, that no food may be wasted. By careful planning, extra 

food may be cooked, and later form the basis of other dishes. 

These planned overs make attractive luncheon and supper dishes. 

Stale bread may be put through a food chopper or rolled and 
kept 'for crumbs. Slices of bread should be kept for toasting. 

Butter that is left on the butter plates, if clean, should be 
kept for cooking. 

Stale cake may be steamed, and served with a sauce for 
dessert. 

For left over Cereal see page 18. 

Fish should be looked over carefully, and set aside in a cool 
place until used. - ^ 

_ lis 

Fruits should be used in salads and desserts. 

Meat should be kept for creaming, stews, salads or soups. 
It should be looked over carefully, and ^11 bone, gristle.and skin 
removed before putting it away in a cool place. 

Vegetables may be reheated, creamed, or used for soups and 
in stews, or salads. 

SPANISH RICE 

1 c. rice uncooked 1 can tomato soup 

1 onion 1 green pepper, chopped 

1 lb. Hamburg steak 

Boil rice, add soup, pepper and steak, which has been cooked 
in butter with the chopped onion. Bake till firm 'and brown, 
about }4 hr. 

BAKED GREEN PEPPERS 

Take out the contents of 6 green peppers, cover them with 
boiHng water and stand 1 hr. Fill with a mixture of boiled rice, 
cooked tomatoes, a little chilli sauce and blanched and chopped 
alpionds. Put in a baking pan with a little boiling water and a 
lump of butter. Bake, basting as for a roast, J4 hr. or until 
tender. When ready to serVe pour over them a sauce made of 



60 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

the yolk of 4 eggs, 2 tbsp. melted .butter, ^ c. hot water, 1 tbsp. 
vinegar and salt to taste. A «lice of onion may be added if de- 
sired. Beat eggs slightly, add butter, water and vinegar. Cook 
until it thickens and remove immediately and season to taste. 

BAKBD HASH 

2 c. cooked beef 1 c. water mixed with 

2 c. boiled potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

54 small onion Salt and pepper to tatse 

1 c. gravy, or 

Mix meat, potatoes, onion minced, and seasoning. Put in 
baking dish, pour in milk or other liquid, and bake about 20 min. 

ESCallopEd meat 
Into a baking dish put alternate layers of macaroni or rice 
and chopped or ground meat. Pour tomato sauce or gravy over 
each layer. Cover with- buttered crumbs and bake until dish is 
heated through and crumbs brown. 

CASSEROLE OE RICE AND MEAT 

Line a biittered mold with cooked rice, fill center with chopped 
cold meat, highly seasoned with salt, pepper, cayenne, celery salt, 
onion juice, and lemoii juice, and moisten with- stock or gtavy. 
Cover meat with rice and then cover whole dish aind steam from 
30 to 45 minutes. Serve on a platter surrounded with sauce. 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST 

1 c. chopped cooked meat y^ c. water or gravy 

yi tbsp. flour Salt 

>2 tbsp. minced onion Pepper 

3 slices toast 

Sprinkle flour on the meat, stir well, add onion, seasoning 
and water. Simmer 10 minutes. Serve on. toast. If gravy is 
used, do not thicken. 

MEAT PIE 

Cut cold cooked meat in small pieces, put in baking dish', 
cover with gravy, or water and melted butter. Season with salt,. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 61 

pepper and onion. Cover with baking powder biscuit dough and 
bake about 15 minutes or until the dough is done. 

MEAT SOUFFLE 
Mix 1 c. white sauce and 1 c. chopped meat, season with 
onion and parsley, add yolks of 2 eggs and coojk 1 min. When 
cool, fold in the beaten whites of eggs and bake in a buttered 
baking dish about 20 minutes. Serye at once. 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Some foods can replace meat in the diet, because they have 
much the same food value and food principles. These foods are : 
eggs, milk, cheese, beans, peas, fish and nuts. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 pt. beans 1 tsp. mustard 

J4 tsp. soda J4 I'b- salt pork 

1 tsp. salt 1 small onion 
^ c. molasses 

Pick over, wash beans and soak over night in cold water. 
Drain, add soda and cover again with cold water. Boil 20 min- 
utes, or until the outside skin cracks. Cook the pork 20 minutes, 
saving the water in which it was cooked. Put the onion and pork 
in the bottom of the bean jaf. Fill with beans and pour over 
them the molasses, with which the seasoning has been rnixed. 
Cover with the water in which the pork was cooked, and bake 
slowly for 5 or 6 hrs. Cover while baking and add boiling water 
as needed. Brown sugar may be used instead of molasses. 

CHEESE PUDDING 

8 servings 

1 pt. crumbs 1 pt- milk 

2 c. grated cheese >^ tsp. salt 

"2 eggs spk. cayenne' pepper 

Mix the bread crumbs and grated cheese. 

Beat the eggs in a greased baking dish, add the milk to them 
and mix. 



62 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



Add the crumbs, cheese and seasoning. Bake in a moderate, 
oven until brown. 

WEI.SH RAREBIT 

1 lb. cheese 1 tsp. salt 

Ic. milk 2tbsp. butter • ^ , , , 

2 eggs ^ slices toast 

>4 tsp. mustard Spk. of cayenne 

Cut cheese in pieces and melt over hot water, add milk and 
eggs, jnixed-with seasoning. Cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly, until as thick as k medium white sauce. Add butter, and 
when melted pour over toast or crackers and serve at once. If 
the cheese is rich, the butter may be omitted. 

FRENCH RAREBIT 

8 slices of bread, buttered Yz tsp. mustard 

Yz lb. cheese >2 tsp. salt. 

2 cups milk - Spk. cayenne 
1 or 2 eggs 

Put bread and cheese in layer in a buttered baking dish and 
pour over it the milk, to which has been added the. beaten egg 
and seasoning. Bake in a slow oven until brown and the milk 
is absorbed or about 20 minutes. 

MACARONI 

Macaroni is a paste of hard wheat flour containing a very 
large amount of gluten and water. 

The paste is put in an iron cylinder and forced through small 
holes of various diameters in an iron plate at the end, thus pro- 
ducing long, slender tubes or cylinders called vermicelli, spaghetti 
or macaroni according to the diameter. The paste is then dried,, 
either in the open air or by the use of artificial heat in buildings. 

Macaroni is so nourishing that it may be used in place of 
meat, especially when combined, with cheese. It is cheaper than 
meat. Good macaroni is yellowish in color, rough in texture ; it 
breaks easily without splitting and swells to double its bulk when 
boiled. It does notTiecome pasty nor, lose its shape. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 63 

'. ■ MACARONI AND TOMATO- SAUCE 

Break macaroni into 1-inch pieces and drop slowly into boil- 
ing salted water so that the temperature of the water will not be 
lowered. Boil about 30 minutes. Drain. Combine with tomato 
sauce. Put into a buttered baking dish. Cover the top with 
buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook 1 tbsp. fat and 2 tbsp. minced onion together. Add 1 
tbsp. flour. Add !• c. unstrained tomatoes, 1 tsp. salt, speck 
pepper. Cook until it thickens. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE 

2c. cooked macaroni 1 tsp^ salt 

1 c. milk Cayenne pepper 

J4 c. cheese 

Break macaroni into 3-inch pieces and drop slowly into boil- 
ing .salted water so that the temperature of the water will not be 
lowered. Boil about 30 minutes. Drain. Put. in a buttered 
baking dish with layers of cheese. Barely cover with milk, sea- 
son and bake until the milk is absorbed and top is brown, about 
25 minutes. 

Macaroni may also be cooked in white sauce. After boiling 
macaronLput in baking dish. Make a thin, white sauce. Cut or 
■ grate cheese into it and pour over macaroni. Cover with buttered 
Crubs and bake till brown. 

RICE BAI<I,S.. 

Pack cooked rice in buttered cups, set in a pan of hot water 
and' place in oven" for about 20 minutes. Remove from mould to 
individual serving dishes and pour the cheese sauce over them. 
' Serve at once. 

COOKING IN DEEP FAT 

The fat used may be olive oil, cptton seed oil, cottoline, beef 
dripping's, lard, or a mixture of several fats. 

The kettle should be of iron, and a frying basket may be 
used. 



64 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

Foods already cooked or needing little cooking, require a 
higher ternperature than batters. The temperature of the fat for 
oysters, croquettes, fish balls, etc., may be tested by browning a 
cube of bread in forty seconds. When the cube browns in sixty 
seconds, the fat is the right temperature for all batters, 

All articles cooked must be drained on unglazed brown paper. 

When one quantity has been taken from the fat, the fat must 
be reheated and tested before adding a second quantity. 

In absence of a frying basket, a wire spoon may be used to 
remove the food from the fat. ' ■ ' , 

Fat which has been used for frying should be cooled and 
clarified by cooking a few slices of raw potato in it for 10 minutes, 
strain through cheesecloth and when cold, cover. Fat may be 
used several times for frying and then made into soap. 

TO CLARIIfY PAT 

Add boiling water to cold fat, stir vigorously and set aside 
to cool, the fat will form a cake Qii top, which may be easily re- 
moved ; on the bottom of the cake will be found sediment, which 
may be readily scraped with a knife. 

PAT PROOF COATING 

Dip article to be cooked in fine bread or cracker crumbs sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, then into beaten egg, and again in 
seasoned crumbs. See that the article is coinpletely covered. 

CROQUETTES 
Make a thick white sauce, add chopped meat and, a little 
grated onion, if desired. Let stand till cold. Shape and roll in 
fat-proof coating. Fry. 

SAVORY RICE CROQUETTES 

iy2 c. cooked rice i/^ tsp. salt 

1 ^g? spk. cayenne 

4 to 6 tbsp, grated cheese 

Shape in,to balls. Roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs again, 
and fry in deep fat. ■ 

Rice for croquettes should be steamed to retain the starch. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



SWEET RICE CRQQUETTES 
1 J^ c. cooked rice 3 tbsp. sugar 

1 egg grated nutmeg 

Proceed as in Savory Rice Croquettes. 

CORN FRITTERS 

1 pt. corn 1 tsp. salt 

J^c. dour spk. pepper 

y2 tsp. baking powder 1 or 2 eggs 

If fresh corn is used, score down the center of each i:ow, cut 
off kernels, and with the back of a knife press out this pulp. If 
canned corn is^used, chop fine and add 2 tbsp. milk. Add beaten 
yolks, flour, baking powder and seasoning to the corn, fold in 
beaten Whites. Saute by dropping tablespoonf tils into the hot 
fat. Brown on both sides. Do not pile one on another or the 
lower ones will be greasy and soggy. 

APPLE FRITTERS 
1>4 c. flour 1 ^g% 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 . tbsp. butter 

Ya, tsp. salt 2 tart apples 

1 c. milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg, and butter, melted. 
Pare, core and slice apples in small pieces and stir into the batter, 
or cut in round slices and dip into the batter, one at a time, and 
saute or fry. 



66 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XII. 

SALADS 

Salads are made from cold meat, fish, eggs, fruits or vege- 
tables, combined with a dressing, which is made with butter, oil 
or cream, eggs and an acidi Several vegetables or fruits may be 
combined; meat with vegetables or eggs, etc. 

Meat, fish or &gg salad may replace the meat in a meal, and 
form the principal dish for luncheon or supper. 

A salad is served with the main course at dinner or may 
follow the main course. A fruit salad may takie. the place of 
desserts. 

Odds. and, ends of left-6vers can often be combined into z. 
palatable salad. Salad dressing contains nourishing materials in 
the form of eggs, cream, oil or butter. Salads have great food, 
value since they contain nourishing foods, which supply starch, 
protein, fat and mineral matter. Fruit and vegetable salads are 
especially rich in minerals. Salads should be used morfe often to 
take the place of other dishes, since they offer great variety in 
combinations and in the diet. They make excellent summer 
dishes. 

Lettuce can be freshened by soaking in cold or ice water a 
short time and can be kept fresh by wrapping in a damp cloth" 
and laying it on ice. 

Salads must be attractive to the eye and well-seasoned. Such 
vegetables as celery, radishes, etc., as well as the lettuce on which 
the salad is served must all be fresh, crisp and dry. 

Salads should be mixed with a fork and served very cold. 
There are three classes of salad dressings : — 

1. French— made with oil, vinegar or fruit-juice and sea- 
sonings. 

2. Boiled or cooked— made with eggs, vinegar and sea- 
sonings. If cream is added it is sometimes called 
"Cream dressing." 

3. Mayonnaise (uncooked)— made with egg, oil, vinegar, 
cream and seasonings. 



FOR ELEMENTA^IY GRADES 



67 



Variations in salad dressings are made by adding finely 
chopped 

beets 
celery 
chili sauce 
chives 
horseradish 



cayenne 

chives 

capers 

cloves 

curry 

garlic 



lettuce 
beet-tops 
celery 
cabbage 

Meat, poultry, and fish are cut into one-half -inch cubes and 
marinated with French dressitxg, and allowed to stand in the 
refrigerator for an hour before combining with the other parts 
of the salad. ' / 

This gives a flavor to tfee salad that it cannot have if it is 
combined with the dressing just before serving. Then mix with 
the mayonnaise, befoi^e serving. 

For garnishing some highly flavored materials may be used, 
as olives, radishes, parsley, or nasturtium leaves or blossoms. 

cooke;d salad dressing i. 
2 whole eggs or 4 yolks 1 tsp. salt 

Ys c. vinegar spk. of cayenne pepper 

2 tbsp. butter fi tsp. mustard 

Beat eggs slightly. Add vinegar and cook over hot water 
till thick. Remove from fire, add butter and seasoning. When 
ready to use, if too thick, it may be thinned with cream. 



hard cooked eggs 


Roquefort cheese 


green or red 


nuts 


peppers 


whipped cream 


parsley 


cucumber 


pimento 




SALAD SEASONINGS 




horseradish 


pepper 


marjoram 


paprika 


■ mint 


parsley 


mustard 


savory 


nasturtium 


tarragon 


onion 




SALAD GREENS 




chives 


e'scarole 


chicory. 


romaine 


dandelions 


spinach 


endive 


watercress ' 



68 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK . 



COOKED DRESSING II. 

1 tsp. salt Yolks of 2 eggs or 1 whole 

Yi tsp. mustard ^^■g 

1 tbsp. sugar , /4 c. vinegar 

Few grains Cayenne ^ c. milk 

1 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs and milk. Cook over 
hot water until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add vinegar 
slowly, and butter; strain' if necessary and cool. If it curdles, 
beat with Dover egg beater until smooth. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

3 tbsp. olive oil ^ tsp. salt 
1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon Cayenne 

juice 
Stir seasoning into the oil, add vinegar and beat hard until 
the dressing thickens slightly. 

COOKED CREAM DRESSING 

y^ tbsp. salt 2>4 tbsp. melted butter/ • 

y^ tbsp. mustard ^ c. cream 

% tbsp. sugar J^ c. vinegar 

1 egg, slightly beaten 

Mix ingredients in the order given, adding vinegar very 
slowly. Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly until mix- 
ture thickens. Cool. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING III. 

4 tbsp. flour Dash of cayenne pepper .: 
3 tbsp. sugar 2 eggs 

1 tsp. salt y^ c. vinegar 

1 tsp. mustard ^ J^ c. water 

3 tbsp. olive oil or Ij^ tbsp. butter 

Mix dry ingredients, • add beaten eggs, vinegar and water. 
Cook over hot water until thick. Add butter, or, if oil is used, 
add very slowly when cool. 

UNCOOKED CREAM DRESSING 

Cream, either sweet or sour, may be used as a dressing for 
salad. To the cream add salt, sugar, pepper and a little vinegar 
or lemon juice to taste. This is especially good on cabbage. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 69 



MOCK MAYONNAISE 

4 tbsp. flour 1- c. boiling- water 

1 tsp. salt y^ c. lemon juice or vinegar 

>4 tsp. niustard yolks of 2 eggs 

spk. pepper Ij^c. oil (chilled) 

'Make a sauce of the flour, seasonings and J4 c. of oil and the 
water. Boil gently three minutes, and pour into the slightly 
beaten eggs. Stir occasionally as the dressing cools to prevent a 
crust from forming. When cold, add vinegar or lemon juice, 
and mix well. Add the cupful of oil one-third at a time. and after 
each . addition beat hard with a Dover &gg beater. This makes 
a very thick mixture and can be used for garnishing as it does 
not sqften so readily as mayonnaise. 

J 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 

To mayonnaise dressing add 2 tbsp. each finely chopped, 
pimento, chives, tomato catsup and (jhili sauce. Fold in J4c. 
heavy cream whipped until stiff, and just before serving add 2 
hard cooked eggs, chopped (chop the yolks and whites separately). 
Chill on ice before using. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING . ' 

1 tsp. sugar yolks of 2 eggs 

J4 tsp. salt 4 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice 

>4 tsp. mustard , 1>^ c. olive oil 

few grains cayenne pepper 

-Mix the dry ingredients, add them to the well-beaten ^gg 
yolks. Add about J4 c. olive /oil, drop at a time, beating all of the 
time, then add alternately, a few drops at a time, the vinegar and 
remaining oil. Continue beating, keep all ingredients cold, and 
when finishing add 2 or 3 tbsp. boiling water, and beat again. 
This amount will inake almost>a pint of thick dressing, which will 
keep several weeks in the refrigerator. Thin when ready to use 
with cream (sweet or sour), or milk. If the dressing separates 
when mixing, add the mixture, drop by drop, to another yolk, of 



70 HOME ECONOMICS. COOK BOOK 



egg. If desired one whole egg may be used in place of the yolks 
of two eggs, when the dressing will be much lighter in color. 

RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING 

y-i, tsp. salt 2 hard cooked eggs 

y?, tsp. pepper 1 pimento 

, >^ tsp. paprika 1 green pepper ,y ,.' 'v ^, ,'-' ' 

6 tbsp. olive oil 1 tbsp. chives " ('^'^ 

2 tbsp. vinegar ■ ' 1 tbsp. chili sauce 

Rub the bc>wl with a dove of garlic or onion, add salt, pepper, 
paprika, and oil; beat until ingredients are well mixed. Add 
vinegar slowly. Chop whites and yolks of eggs separately ; rub 
pimento through a sieve ; chop the green pepper. Add these in 
the order given to the above mixture. Theii add finely chopped 
chives, and chili sauce. Mix thoroughly and chill. Just before 
serving beat 3 minutes. 

SWBET SAIvAD DRESSING 

To use for fruit salad. For each half cupful of cream 
whipped, add 1 tbsp. cooked or mayonnaise dressing. 

CABBAGE SAIyAD 

Remove the outer leaves from a small, soH(i white cabbage.. 

Chop fine or shred, mix with diced celery if desired, and 
moisten with cream or cooked dressing. Shredded pimento may 
be added or used as a garnish. 

PERFECTION SALAD ','..: 

yi. pkg. gelatine , .v^" A tbsp. sugar (or to suit taste) 

J4 c. cold water 2 c. celery, cut in small pieces 

J4 c. mild vinegar 1 c. finely chopped cabbage 

juice of 2 lemons J^ c chopped English walnuts 

1 pt. boiling water ■ M can sweet red peppers, 

1 tsp. salt finely chopped 

Soak gelatine in cold water 2 min. Add vinegar, lemon juice, 
boiling water, sugaf alnd salt. Strain, and when beginning to set, 
add remaining ingredients. Turn into cups to molii and chill. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRAEJES 71 



CHEESE BALLS 
Measure Neufchatel, Cottage or snappy cheese by the tea- 
spoon. Shape into balls. Put an English walnut meat on each 
side. Use as a salad garnish., 

VEAL SALAD 

1 lb. cooked veal or chicken Nut ifieats 
1 stalk celery or 1 'cucumber 

Dice meat, add celery or cucumbers cut in dice, then nut 
meats, moisten with dressing and serve on shredded lettuce. 

SALMON SALAD 

1 hard cooked tgg 1 can salmon 

Drain oil from salmon. Remove skin and bone. Flake fish, 
being very careful not to mash. Add egg, cut into dice and 
moisten with salad dressing. Chopped sour pickles, cucumbers 
cut into dice, broken nut meats and shredded lettuce may be 
added. ' 

VEGETABLE OR MACEDOINE SALAD 

Cold cooked peas, carrots, beets, string beans, potatoes or 
almost any cold vegetable may be combined in this salad. Cut 
beets and carrots in %-inch cubes, string beans and celery in 
short lengths. 

Mix each vegetable separately with French or boiled dress- 
ing, and arrange them in sections, forming a circular mount upon 
a bed of lettuce. Let vegetables of contrasting colors come next 
each other and garnish with radishes, celery tips and small lettuce 
leaves. \ ' 

POTATO SALAD 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in cubes, sprinkle lightly with salt. 
If liked, add one-half th,e amount of celery, cut in cubes. Add .1 
tbsp. minced onion to every pint of potatoes. Moisten with salad 
dressing. Mix lightly and place on lettuce leaves, using indi- 
vidual plates, or put in bowl and garnish with celery leaves. 

Hard cooked eggs cut iii slices may be added. 
FRUIT SALAD 

Mix diced oranges, bananas and pineapple, add broken nut 
meats. Moisten with salad dressing and serve on lettuce. Gar- 
nish with maraschino cherries. 



72 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XIII. 

QUICK BREADS 

Quick breads are breads which are raised by : 

1. •Baking powder and sweek milk. 

2. Soda and sour milk. 

3. Soda and molasses. 

4. Air beaten into the mixture. 

Quick breads form a delightful substitute for yeast breads 
and are used chiefly for breakfasts and luncheons, seldom for a 
formal dinner. 

Quick bread mixtures are either batters or doughs. 

Batter means that which can be beaten, and dough means that 
which is mixed stiff enough to be molded. 

Proportion for thin batter: 1 scant c. liquid to Ic. flour: 

Proportion for thick or drop batter : 1 scant c. liquid to 2 c. 
flour. 

Proportion for dough : 1 scant c. liquid to 3 c. flour. 

Baking powder is made up of two materials, cream of tartar 
and soda, and some starchy material' to absorb moisture. The 
cream of tartar and soda when moistened, unite to form a gas 
called carbon dioxide which raises the mixture and makes it light. 

There must always be present two materials which when com- 
bined make this gas ; for exainple, soda and sour milk. These 
two materials are known as acid and alkali. Soda is the alkali 
and cream of tartar the acid. 

PROPORTIONS OF ACID AND AI^KALIES 

1 level tsp. soda to 1 pt. thick sour milk. '■"' 
J/2 to 1 level tsp. soda to 1 c. molasses. ' . 

2 level tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour. 

The general method of mixing quick breads, follows: 

1. Measure and sift dry materials. 

2. Measure and mix wet ma,terials. 

3. Add wet materials, to dry materials. 

4. Add melted fat. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 73 



GRIDDLE CAKES .;•,'' 

The griddle for cakes should be smooth and clean. Never 
allow fat to collect ^nd burn around the edges. Grease griddle 
with a pork rind or drippings., If fat is Used in the cakes, little 
or no grease is nfeeded on the griddle. Drop cakes from the end 
of the spoon, to make them round. ^ When full of bubbles, turn 
and brown the other side. Never turn a cake but once. 

SOUR MIIvK GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 pt. flour 1 scant pt. thick soiir or 

y^ tsp. salt butter milk 

1 tsp. soda 1 egg well beaten 

Mix and sift soda, salt and flour, add sour milk and beaten 
yolk. Fold in beaten white and bake on a hot greased griddle. 

SWEET MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

Ij^ c. flour y2 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 egg 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 tbsp. melted shortening 
1 c. milk 

, Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add milk, and pour 
slowly into the other mixture. Beat thoroughly and add short- 
ening. ■-,,/. 

CORN-MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

ly-i z. corn-meal „ '.,«.;', 3 tsp. baking powder 

J4 c. white flour ' ,;' !:i"i.i" : > 1 tbsp. sugar or- molasses 
- i^ tsp. salt ' I'"' 2 c. (scant) milk, water or 

1 tbsp. melted fat / >^ milk and >^ water 
Mix in order given and bake on hot' griddle without greasing. 

WAEFLES 

2 c. flour 2 eggs 

'4 tsp. baking powder IM c. milk 

y^ tsp. salt 1 tsp. butter, melted 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, yolks of eggs, butter and 
beaten whites. Cook on a greased tot waffle iron. Any pan- 
cake batter dan be made into waffles. 

A waffle iron should fit well on the range. Heat well oh 
both sides and grease.' Fill by putting a tablefepoonful of the 



74 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



mixture in each compartment near the center, cover, and, it will 
spread to fill it. If it is sufficiently tieated it should be turned 
almost as soon as it is filled and covered. * 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 c. flour 1 c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

Yz tsp. salt 2 tbsp. melted butter 

2 tbsp. sugar 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten ^gg and melted butter. 
Bake in hot greased muffin pans about 25 minutes. 

CORN MUFFINS 

^ c. corn-meal 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 c. flour . ', 1 c. milk ' 
4 tsp. baking powder 1 &gg 

Yi tsp. salt 1 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg and butter. Bake 
in hot greased muffin pans aibout 25 minutes. 

ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS 

1J4 c. entire wheat or J^ tsp. salt 

graham flour 1 c. milk 

Ya c. flour 1 Qgig 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. melted butter or lard 
4 tsp. baking powder . 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten &gg and melted butter. 
Bake in hot greased muffin pans about 25 minutes. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

2 c- flour 2 tbsp. lard 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 scant c. milk 

1 tsp. salt 

■ » 

Mix dry ingredients. Cut in lard with knife or mix lightly 
with fingers. Add milk gradually to form a soft dough, mixihg 
with a knife. Turn on a floured board. Rqll to % in. thickness,;; 
cut and bake in hot oven about IS minutes. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 75 



PIN WHEEly BISCUIT 

2 c. flour 1 tbsp. melted butter 

4 tsp. baking powder l^ c. stoned raisins 

Yz tsp. salt 2 tbsp. chopped citron 

1 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. sugar 

% c, milk , , % tsp. cinnamon 

Mix flour, baking powder, salt, rub in the butter and add 
milk gradually as for baking powder biscuits. Roll % in. thick. 
Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with raisins chopped fine, 
citron, and sugar and cinnamon mixed. Roll like 'a jelly roll. 
Cut in slices 1 inch thick. Bake in a hot oven IS minutes. 

For Date Biscuits cut dates in half lengthwise, remove the 
stone. After biscuits are cut in rounds, fold one-half over the 
other as for Parker House rolls, and place dates, in the fold. 

BRAN BREAD , 

1 qt. sour milk 5 full c. graham flour 

1 tsp. salt , 3 c. bran flour 

2 tsp. soda 2 c. brov\^n sugar 

Mix all of the dry ingredients together, i and stir them into 
the milk. The mixture must be very stiff. Bake 2 hrs. in a slo\v 
oven. Makes 2 loaves. This can also be baked in muffin pans. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 c. rye flour Ya c- molasses 

1 c. cornmeal 2 c. thick soUr milk 

1 c. graham flour 2 tsp. soda , 
Yi tsp. salt 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk and molasses and beat well. 
Pour into greased moulds. Grease covers also, and never fill 
moulds more than two-thirds full. Half molasses and half brown 
sugar may be used. Steam 3>4 hours. A baking-powder can 
makes a convenient mould. 



76 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CORN BRBAD 

1 c. cornmeal % c. sugar 

1 c. flour 2 eggs 
^ tsp. salt 1 c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder . 2 tbsp. melted butter or lard 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten tgg and butter. Beat . 
well and bake in a shallow greased pan in a quick oyen from 20 
to 30, minutes. 

NUT BREAD 

y2 c. brown sugar (light) 2 tsp. soda 

; Yz c. molasses J4 lb. chopped English 

2 c. sour njilk Walnuts, or J^ c. nuts and 
1 scant c., white flour ■ J^ c. chopped raisins 
2j4 c. graham flour _■ 1 tsp. salt 

Mix nuts and raisins with dry ingredients, and beat them 
into the sugar and Hquids. Bake 1 hour in a slow oven. 

QUICK COPlfEE CAKB 

3 c. flour 1 Qgg 

4 tsp. B. P. ' 3 tsp. shortening 
1 tsp. salt 1 c. milk . 

J^ c. sugar 

Mix the dry ingredients cut in the shortening — add the 
slightly beaten ^gg and the milk. Mix with a knife. Put into 
layer pans — sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon — dot with butter- 
bake 25 or 30 minutes in a hot oven. 

Raisins may be added if desired. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 77 



CHAPTER XIV. 

BREAD 

Bread diflEers from quick breads in that it is always raised 
, with yeast and has three other necessary ingredients, liquid, flour 
and salt. 

The liquid may be milk but ha:lf or all water may be used. 
Fat of some kind is generally added. 

The flour, used for bread should be Spring wheat which con- 
tains a great deal of gluten so necessary in making bread. Spring 
wheat is grown in the northwestern part of the United States and 
in Canada. / 

The yeast used in bread is generally compressed yeast al- 
though yeast foam and other forms may be used. 

Yeast is a tiny plant which requires warmth, moisture, fpod 
and air to grow. These are supplied- by the liquid, which is first 
scalded then cooled 'to lukewarm temperature, flour, sugar and 
butter and by the air kneaded of beaten into the dough and set 
in a warm place. 

As we provide the yeast with these things, upon which to 
grow, it makes a gas, called carbon dioxide which raises the bread. 
It is here, that the value of the gluten comes ip, for as the bread 
rises, the gluten being very elastic like a ballon stretches with the 
•tnixture, and holds .in the gas so that the dough may continue 
rising. 

STEPS IN MAKING DOUGH POR BREAD 

I. ■ Scald milk (to destroy bacteria), 

ll. Pour scalded milk over fat, sugar and salt in large bowl. 
III. , Cool mixture to lukewarm temperature.- 

.IV. Add yeast dissolved in lukewarm water. 

V. Add enough flour to beat well. 

VI. Add remaining flour and knead. 

VII. Let rise in greased bowl till doubled in size. 

VIII. Knead. 

IX. Let rise in pans till doubled in size. 
X. Bake in hot oven for 4^ minutes to hour. 
:■■ . ^ .;■ BREAD 

,. A sponge is a drop batter to which yeast is added. 



78 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

PRINCIPAL REQUIEEMSNTS IN BREAD MAKING 

Many points should be kept in mind in making bread : 

1. Choice of materials. 

2. Choice of utensils. 

3. Cleanliness. 

4. Proportions of ingredients. 

5. Measuring, mixing and molding. 

6. Care of dough while it is rising. 

7. Care of bread while it is baking. 

8. Care of loaves after they are taken from the oven. 

REASONS FOR KNEADING BREAD 

1st. Kneading: 

(a) To fold in air. 

(b) To develop gluten. 

(c) To mix materials. 
2d. Kneading: 

(a) To shape for baking. * ■ 

(b) To break up large gas bubbles. 

TEST FOR OVEN 

If the oven will turn a piece of unglazed white paper golden 
brown in five or six minutes the bread may be put in. 

BREAD SCORING ' i 

It is highly desirable and advantageous that the bread-maker 
learn to score her own bread, in order that she may be a com-^ 
petent judge of good and bad products. 

Score cards for "judging bread differ somewhat, but the one 
used by the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Departnient of 
Agriculture, for the ordinary yeast raised, white bread, is a good 
, guide. 

{Shape S 
Smoothness of crust. 5 
Depth and eveness of color. 5 
2. Lightness . .' 10 

{Quality (crispness and elasticity) . . ; 5 

Thickness S 

Color 10 

4. Crumb, Texture (size and uniformity of cells, 

thinness of cell walls) 15 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 79 

Elasticity, softness and springiness IS 

5. flavor, Taste and Odor -. 25 

Total ,100 

THREE-HOUR BREAD - 

Yi. c. scalded ihilk. J^ tbsp. lard (scant) 

% tbsp. sugar 3 c. flour 

1 tsp. salt 1 extra cup of flour 

J4 c. cold water 1 cake compressed yeast 

Scald milk, add lard, salt and sugar, cool down with cold 
water, then add the yeast which has been dissolved in J4 c- of 
lukewarm water. Stir in 1 c. flour, then beat in J^ c. more of 
flour. . (This is called the sponge-,mixture<) Beat this hard, and 
when it is very smooth, add the remaining flour slowly, beating 
it thoroughly whenever flour is added. 

If necessary add from extra, cup of flour to make a soft 
dough. Knead it on the board and 'let it rise until it hds dpubled 
in bulk. Knead this into a loaf arid let rise until it has again 
doubled in size, and bake. If a longer time is desired in making 
the bread use less yeast. This amount makes one good sized loaf 
of bread, multiply the amounts given by number of loavts to be 
baked in case several loaves are desired. 

If Graham bread is desired, substitute half Graham flour for 
the white. - ' 

BREAD WITH SPONGE 

1 qt.' boiling water . 3 small potatoes 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 cake yfeast dissolved in 
2 tbsp. lard Ya c. lukewarm water 

Flour 
Boil and mash potatoes. Add salt, sugar, lard and boiling 
water. When lukewarm, add yeast and 6 to 8 c. of flour to make 
a sponge. Let rise over night. In the morning, add flour to 
make a soft dough. Turn on a well-floured board and knead 
lightly till smooth and elastic. Put into a greased bowl. Grease, 
the top to. prevent a hard crust from forming. Cover closely. 
Let rise till it doubles in size. Knead and shape into loaves or 
rolls. Let loaves rise in the pan J4 to ^ hr. and bake 40 to 60 



80 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

minutes. Rolls should rise in the pan from 1 to Ij^ hrs. and 
bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 pt. milk Yz cake yeast dissolved in 

1 tbsp. butter J^ c. lukewarm water 

1 tsp. salt Flour 

1 tbsp. sugar 

Scald milk. Add butter, sugar and salt — when lukewarm, 
add yeast and flour to make a soft dough. Knead until the dough 
blisters. Let rise till it doubles in size. Shape into rolls ; let rise 
1 to 15^ hrs. Bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. Brush with 
milk or butter. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD' 

Scald 1 c. milk and 1 c. water. When lukewarm, add 1 cake 
compressed yeast dissolved in J4 c. lukewarm water, J^ tsp. salt 
and enough whole wheat flour about 3 c. to make a stiff batter. 
Beat well for 5 minutes lifting dough high in the air folding it 
over. Scrape dough from sides of the bowl, cover with a clean 
cloth and set in a warm place 80 to 90° F. for 2 hours. By this 
time it will be light and spongy. Stir in enough whole wheat 
flour to make a dough. Turn out onto a floured board and knead 
until light and elastic and no longer sticky. Form into 2 or 4 
loaves, as desired," place in greased pans, cover and let stand 
until double in bulk about 1 hr. Bake in a moderate oven ^ hr. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

3c. rolled oats 14 c. sugar 

3 c' boiling water 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 tbsp. lard dissolved in 1 c. water 

IYt. tsp. salt Flour to make dough 

Scald rolled oats with boiling water, add lard, sugar and salt 
and when lukewarm, the dissolved yeast. Add flour to make a 
dough stiff enough so that the spoon will stand upright in it. 
Beat well as the flour is added, Let rise 2 or 3 hours or, until it 
doubles in size. Beat down, put into greased ^SanS, let rise about 
J^ to ^ hour or until light. Bake 1 hour in -moderate oven. 

COFlfEE CAKE 

Take from the bread after the first rising enough dough to 
make one loaf. Add to it J^ c. shortening, J| c. sugar and one 



FOR ELEMENTARY- GRAtiES 81 

egg. Add flour enough to shape into a loaf about 1 in. thick; 
let rise until double in size. , ♦■* 

Before baking brush the top with egg and sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and dot with butter. Bake in a moderate 
oven. ' 

CARE OP BREAD AFTER BAKING 

1. Remove from pari immediately. 

2. If desired rub top crust with waf;er, milk or a little melted 

butter. 

3. Cool on a rack in a current of air, 

4. When cold, store without wrapping, in a metal box. 

USES OE STALE BREAD 
TOAST 

Toaster, knife, fork. 

1. Cut bread into slices ^ inch thick. 

2. Place toaster over gas burner and put slices of bread on 

toaster. 

3. - When one side of bread is brown, turn bread and brown 

the. other side. 

4. Toast may be buttere'd when taken from toaster or may 
■ be spread at table as eaten. 

5. Good toast is crisp. 
Serve on a hot, plate. ■•• 

MILK TOAST 

Pour hot milk seasoned with butter and salt over plain toast. 
If desired a thin white sauce may be used in place of the milk. 

FRENCH TOAST 

2 eggs "■ -:^'^^''. 1 c. milk 

T^ tsp. salt - " 6 slices stale bread 

Beat eggs slightly, add salt and milk, pour into a shallow pan 
or dish. Soak bread in mixture until soft. Cook on a hot, well 
oiled .griddle or' in a frying pan; brown on one side, turn and 
, brOwn on the other side. 



82 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XV. 

CAKES 

In general a cake should contain about twice or not more 
than three times as much sugar as butter. Butter, or the Short- 
ening, and sugar count as liquid since they melt in the oven. 
Sour milk or molasses do not thin a mixture so much as sweet 
milk or water. A cake with fruit or nuts should be a little stiffer ' 
than one withotit. The more eggs that are in a cake the less 
baking, powder it needs. Cake containing molasses burns easily. 
Bake, such cakes, or any thick loaf requiring long baking, in tins 
lined with greased paper. 

There are two classes of cakes, those with butter or butter 
cake, and those without butter, or sponge cake. 

TO MIX BUTTER CAKS 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then beaten yolks and 
flavoring. Add flour and liquid alternately commencing with the 
flour. Add baking powder to the last portion of flour. Beat well 
as cake is made fine grained by beating: Lastly fold in beaten 
whites. Never stir or beat aft^r the whites are put in. 

TO CREAM BUTTER 

Work or press the butter against the side of the bowl till 
very soft, or work it in the hands The heat of the hands will 
soften it very quickly. The bowl may be warmed a little if the 
butter is very hard but not enough to melt it. Melting the butter 
makes it too greasy for a cake. 

Butter is creamed in order to mix it more thoroughly with 
the other ingredients of the cake. ' 

CAKE BATTERS 

Cakes are baked in shallow pans as layers or in deep pans as 
loaves. Both mixtures are batters. The batter for a layer cake 
should drop fronj the spoon in ribbons. The batter for a loaf 
cake should drop in lumps. 

Layer cakes are baked about 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Loaf cakes are baked J4 hour to 1 hour in a moderate or 
slow oven. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 83 

4 

'Good materials, careful measurements and a good oven well 
under control arfe necessary to make good cakes. 

HINTS ON MAKING CAKE 

1. The more you cream the butter and sugar together, the 
finer will be the grain of the cake. 

2. Beat a cake well before adding, baking powder or egg 
whites. . , i 

3. Stir cake as little as possible after adding the above 
named materials. 

4. Stir a cake in the same direction. It makes the grain 
finer and smoother. 

5. Test your oven a few minutes before you are ready to 
put in the cake, so it will have time to cool or heat more before' 
it is needed. 

6. Avoid jarring the oven in the first stages of baking. Do 
not open the oven door until- half the time Allowed for baking has 

P^^^^ ■ TO BAKE BUTTER CAKES 

The oven should be hot dnough to turn a piece of unglazed 
white paper medium brown in fite minutes. The time for baking 
should be divided into quarters. First, begin to rise; second, 
continue to rise and begin to brown ; third, brown all over ; fourth^ 
finish baking. „ ^ . „„ 

^ FILLING THE PANS 

Grease pan, or paper if used, with fat, and dust with flour. 
Pour in the mixture and let it run well into the corners of the 
pan. Have pan about two- thirds full. 

TO TELL WHEN CAKE IS BAKED 

1. Insert a brooiii straw or tooth-pick. If it comes out 
clean, the cake is done, i 

2. Touch the cake lightly. If it springs back into place, it 

is done. 

3. . Cake shrinks from the sides of the pan when it is done. 

ONE EGG CAKE 
y, c. butter 1 c milk 

1 c. sugar 2 c. flour 

1 Qgg 4 tsp. baking powder 

^tsp. vanilla 



84 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually,\beaten egg and flavoring. , 
Stir in alternately the milk and flour mixed with baking powder.. 
Beat well, and bake in a greased pan 30 to 40 minutes. 

mother's CAKE' 

% c. butter 1 c. milk 

iy2 c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs, beaten separately 3 c. flour 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar gjradua^lly, then beaten yolks and 
flavoring. Mix flour and baking powder, and add alternately 
with the milk. Beat well and fold in beaten' whites. Bake 40 to 
50 minutes in a moderate oven, if a loaf; 20 to 25/ minutes, if in 
payers. 

CHICAGO WHITS CAKE 

^ c. butter 3 c. flour 

2 c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 
1 c. milk Whites of 4 eggs 

El<AV0RING 

Mix as for any butter cake and bake in layers. 

ANGEI, FOOD 

Whites of 11 eggs 1 c. flour 

Ij^ c. sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

1 tsp. flavoring 
Sift sugar. Sift flour with half the cream of tartar three 
times. Beat whites to a foam, add the other half of the cream of 
tartar and beat until very stiff. Add sugar, mixing with a spoon, 
and the flavoring: Fold in the flour lightly. Pour into ungreased 
pan lined with greased paper, and, bake in slow over 40 to 50 
minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE 

6 eggs Grated rind of Yz lemon ^ 

1 c. sugar 1 c. flour 

1 tbsp. lemon juice y^ tsp. salt 

Beat yolks until lemon-colored and thick,, add sugar gradually^. 
and continue, beating. Add lemon juice and rind 'and whites 
beaten very stiff. When whites are partly mixed in, add flour 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 85 

and cut in carefully. Place in ungr eased tin with paper fitted to 
the bottom and bake 1 hour in a slow oven. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE * 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. flavoring 

1J4 c- sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

y2 c. water 2 c. flour 

B^at yolks 5 minutes, add sugar slowly and beat 2 minutes. 
Add water and flavoring. Slip the beaten white's into the bowl, 
and sift the flour, mixed with the baking powder, slowly over 
them. Fold all together. Bake in shallow tins or loaf. Cut in , 
two and fill with cream if for Washington pie. Sprinkle the top 
with powdered sugar. 

CREAM Eltl-ING EOR WASHINGTON PIE 

2 c. milk ]/% tsp. salt • 

^ c. sugar 1 beaten tg'g or 

6 tbsp. flour 2 beaten yolks 
J^ tsp. vanilla 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Mix the sugar, flour and 
salt until the flour cannot be seen. Pour the milk over the mix- 
ture, return to double boiler, and stir until it thickens. After it 
has. cooked ten minutes, remove from the fire, add the egg quickly. 
. When cool, flavor^ Whipped cream may be used for the filling, 
in place of custard. . 

Cakes containing either molasses or sour milk are made light 
> by using soda, instead .of baking powder. 

SOUR MIEK SPICE CAKE 

1 c. sugar 2 c. flour 

4 tbsp. lard or butter Vi tsp. cinnamon 
1 c. sour milk V^ tsp. cloves 

• 1 egg yi tsp. ginger 

1 tsp. soda yk tsp. nutmeg , 

Cream butter, add sugar gradtially, and cream again. Add 

beaten &%%, sour milk, and flour mixed with soda and spices. 

Bake in a greased pan in a moderate oven. 



86 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

SOUR MII,K CHOCOLATE CAKB 

Yi c. butter y^, c. boiling water 

2% c. brown sugar (1 lb.) 1 tsp. soda 

2 eggs . 1 square chocolate 

Yz c. sour milk 2 c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, gradually, then the beaten 
eggs and sour milk. 

Dissolve the chocolate in the boiling water. Stir this in and 
then the floUr mixed with "■ soda. Bake ,40 to 50 minutes in 
moderate oven, if in loaVeS; 20 to 30 minutes if in layers. 

GOLD CAKe 

Y^. c. butter, scant 4 tsp. baking powder 

IM c. sugar Ya tsp- nutmeg 

yolks of 4 eggs , 2 c. flour 

Y2 c. milk 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and cream again., Add 
beaten yolks, milk, and flour mixed with baking powder and 
nutmeg. Bake in greased tins. 

SILVER CAKB 

Y2 c. butter 2 c. flour 

J4 c. sugar Y2. tsp. flavoring 

¥2 c. milk whites 4 eggs ' 

4 tsp. baking powder 
' Cream butter, add sugar gradually and cream again. Add 
flour, mixed with baking-powder and milk alternately, then flavor- 
ing. Beat well and fold in beaten whites. Bake in greased tins. 

devil's food 
Part 1— 

Roll 1 c. brown sugar, add 1 c. grated chqcolate, and Y2 c 
milk. Put in a dish over boiling water, let it melt, but not .boil. 
Part 2— 

1 c. brown sugar 2 c. flour, measured 

' J4 c. butter before sifting 

yolks of 2 eggs and i^ c. milk 

1 whole egg 1 tsp. soda 

Mix part 1 and 2, and bake in a moderate oven. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 87 



SOUK MILK GINGERBREAD 

Yz c. sour milk, cream, or ' 1 tsp. soda 

buttermilk . 1 tsp. cinnamon 

Yi c. sugar i^ tsp. cloves- 

Yi c. molasses y^ tsp. nutmeg 

>4 c. shortening Y^ tsp. ginger 

"^ ^%Z . Y& tsp. salt 
lY c. flour 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, molasses and sour milk. 
Put spices and soda in, flour, and salt last. Beat quickly; bake 

in a moderate oven about >^ hr. 

I ' 

GINGERBREAD ' ^ 

Y2 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

Y2 c. lard or butter 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. molasses 1 tsp. ginger 

1 c. warm water Y tsp. cloves 

2Y c. flour ' 2 eggs well beaten 

Y tsp. salt 

Mix in the orden given, stirring as little as possible, and bake 
in a moderate oven for Y hour., 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 c. sugar White of 1 egg 

Ys c. water . Y tsp. vanilla 

^. tsp. cream of tartar 

Mix sugar, water and cream of tartar. Heat gradually and 
boil slowly without stirring until syrup will thread when dropped 
from tip of spoon or tines of silver fork. Pour gradtially on 
white beaten very stiff, and continue beating until thick enough 
to spread, then add flavoring. If beaten too long, it will not be 
smooth. If not beaten long enough, the frosting will run. 

BEATEN FROSTING 

White of 1 egg J^ tsp. vanilla or 

2 tsp. cold water Y tsp. lemon juice 

34 c. confectioner's sugar 

To unbeaten white, add water and then sugar gradually. 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK ' 



Beat 20 minutes. Then add flavoring. Use more sugar if nec- 
essary. Spread with a broad bladed knife. 

CH0COI,ATB I^ROSTING - ■• ;f 

2 squares chocolate Yolk 1 egg 

1 scant c. powdered sugar J4 tsp. flavoring 

3 tbsp. milk 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Add one-half the sugar and 
all of the milk. \ 

Add remaining sugar and slightly beaten yolk. Cook until 
it thickens, stirring constantly, cool Slightly; flavor and- spread 
on cake. 

CARMBI, FROSTING 

lj4 c. brown sugar Y^ tbsp. butter 

Yi, c. thin cream , 

Boil all together until a ball can be formed when tried in 
cold water. Beat until thick enough to spread. 

MILK FROSTING 

Ij^ c. granulated sugar 1 tsp. butter 

5^ c. milk J4 tsp. vanilla 

Melt butter, add sugar and milk. Stir until it begins to boil. 
Boil without stirring, 13 minutes. Remove from fire, and beat 
until ready to spread. Flavor. If liked \y-2. squares of chocolate 
melted may be added as soon as boiling point is reached. 

FIG FILLING 
Y2 lb. chopped figs 3 tbsp. boiling, water 

2 tbsp. sugar ' 1 tbsp. lenion juice 

Cook in double boiler till ijaedium thick. Spread between 

layers. 

BUTTFR FROSTING 

4 tbsp. cream 1 tsp. vanilla 
Confectioner's sugar few grains of salt 
4 tsp. melted butter 

Add sugar gradually to the cream,, while beating constantly, 
until the mixture is of the right consistency to spread. Then add 
butter, salt and vanilla. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 89 



ICING FOR CAKE 
1 cup sugar 3 tbsp. water 

1 egg (white) unbeaten 

Dissolve the sugar in the water in the top of the double- 
boiler, add the white of the unbeaten egg. Have the water boil-- 
ing in the double-boiler and beat the mixture about 5 minutes or 
,until it is the right consistency to put on the cake. 

COOKIES 

There are two classes' of cookies, rolled and dropped. 

In making cookies, care should be taken not to make them 
too stiff or they will be dry. Handle as little as possible to avoid 
making them tough. Roll only a part of the dough at a time, 
cutting the cookies as close together as possible. Place in the 
pans with an inch space between each cookie to retain the shape. 
Cookies require a hot oven, and should be removed from the pan 
while hot to prevent breaking. 

DROP GINGER COOKIES 

1 c. molasses , 1 tsp. ginger 

1 c. fat ' ^. }i tsp. nutmeg 

1 c. sugar ' 1 tsp. soda 

2 eggs " J4 c. hot water 
4 c. 'flour 

Cream the fat, add sugar, beaten eggs, molasses and water. 
Add the sifted dry ingredients. Drop from a spoon into' pans. 
Bake in a moderate oven. • 

OAT-MEAL COOKIES 

% c. shortening 2 c. flour 

' 1 c. sugar H tsp.' soda 

2 eggs yi tsp. salt 

j4 c. sour milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

2 c. rolled oats . 1 c. raisins 

. Mix in order given, mixing first the flour, soda, cinnamon 
and salt. Drop by teaspoonful on greased tin, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

To clean currants and raisins, pick off the stems and rinse 



90 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

in a wire strainer till water comes through clean. Shake well to 
remove water and dry. 

. To stone raisins r Cover them with boiling water. When 
they become soft, make a slit lengthwise with a sharp knife and 
squeeze out the seeds. ;_^:.,, , 

Shortening means any kind or mixture of fats. - '-''! 

HERMITS 

Ys c. butter Ys c. raisins stoned and 
% c. sugar chopped 

1 egg Yt. tap. cinnamon 

2 tbsp. milk ^ tsp. cloves 
2 c. flour J4 tsp. mace 

2 tsp. baking powder yi tsp. nutmeg 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, raisins, beaten egg and 
milk. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add to first mixture.. 
Roll a little thicker than plain cookies. Cut and bake. 

CRUMB COOKIES 

Yi c. lard 3 c. flour 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. cinnamon 
Yi c. molasses 1 tsp. cloves 

Yi c. cold water 1 tsp. soda 

lj4 c. dried cake crumbs J4 c. raisins - '/ 

2 eggs 

Cream lard and sugar together, add molasses, cold water, 
cake crumbs and beaten eggs; then the flour mixed with the 
spices and soda, stir in the raisins cut in small pieces, and drop 
by spoonfuls on greased tins. Put a small drop of jelly in the 
center of each cake and bake in a mbderate oven. 

SAND TARTS 

Y2 lb. butter (1 c.) 3 eggs 

1 lb. brown sugar (22/3 c.) 1 lb. flour (4 c.) 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, beaten eggs, leaving out the 
white of one, and then the flour. Roll thin, cut into 3-inch 
squares. Brush with the white, of egg and sprinkle with granu- 
lated sugar and cinnamon mixed. Put a nut or. raisin in the 
center of each and bake in a quick oven. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 9l' 



SOUR MILK COOKIES 

^ c. butter 1 c. sour milk 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

2 eggs About 4 c. flour 

Mix in order given, mixing soda with 2 c. flour, then adding 

flour enough to roll. Turn on a floured board, roll about }i 

inch thick, cut and bake on floured tins. 

SOUR MILK GINGIJR COOKIES 

y2 c. butter 2 tsp. ginger and nutmeg 

1 c. sugar 1/2 c sour milk 

1 c. molasses 2 tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg 1 tsp. soda 

Spk. cloves, allspice Flour 

Mix in order given, mixing the soda and spices with 2 c. 
flour, and continue as for sour milk cookies. 

PLAIN COOKIES 

54 c. butter , J^ tsp. flavoring • 

1 c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder ' 

1 or 2 eggs ^ tsp. nutmeg 
yi c. milk 2j4 c. flour 

Cream butter, add sugar, beaten eggs, milk, flavoring and 
flour, mixed with baking powder and nutmeg. Do not stir after 
the flour is mixed in. Turn on a floured board, roll, cut and bake 
on floured tins about 10 minutes. 

DROP SUGAR COOKIES 

, J4 c. butter 1 tsp. soda 

2 c. sugar Yz tsp. salt 

2 eggs 1 tsp, vanilla 

1^ c. sour cream or milk 3^4 to 3j4 c. flour 

Cream butter and sugar together,. add alternately the cream 
and dry ingredientswhich have been sifted together, and then the 
eggs beaten light without separating. 

Drop from a spoon and sprinkle a little sugar over the top 
of each cake before baking. If cream is used, use less butter. 



92 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



DROP BROWN COOKIES 

2 eggs 1 tsp. soda 

2 c.' brown sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. shortening (softened) Yz tsp. cloves 

1 c. sour milk , Vi tsp. nutmeg 
Sift together— 3 (scant) c. flour 
1^/4 c. chopped raisins and nuts 

Mix in the order given, and drop from a teaspoon, on a 
floured tin. 

SPONGE DROPS 

4 eggs yk c. pastry flour 

Yz c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. flavoring 

Spk. salt 

Mix as for sponge cake. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased 
pan. Sprinkle powdered sugar over them and bake 12 to 16 
minutes in a very slow oven. 

PRIED CAKES 

Cakes cooked in deep fat should come quickly to the top of 
the fat, brown on one side, then be turned to brown on the other 
side. 

If the fat is not hot enough, the doughnuts or fried cakes 
will absorb fat; if it is too hot, the doughnuts will brown before 
they have risen sufliciently. For notes on deep fat frying see 
page 63. 

PRIED CAKES (sweet MII^K) 

2 eggs (beaten without Sift together the following : 
separating) 3^ or 4 c. flour 

Yi tsp. salt 5 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar (pulverized) Ya tsp. cinnamon 

3 tbsp. melted butter or lard Ya tsp. nutmeg 
1 c. sweet milk 

(The cinnamon and nutmeg may be omitted and 1 tsp. vanilla 
used for flavoring.) 

Beat eggs until light and lemon colored, add salt and sugar, 
then melted f at ; add milk and flour alternately. This dough is- 
very soft, and may be handled more easily if kept very cold. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 93 

Toss one-third of the mixture on the flour board; roll out 
and shape with a doughnut cutter and fry in deep fat. 

Drain on brown paper. When ready to use shake in bag 
containing a small amount of powdered sugar. 

POTATO PRIED CAKES 

2 good sized potatoes ■■ 2 eggs ." « 

2 tbsp. butter ' 4 tsp. baking powder '-:' 

1 c. sugar- }^ tsp. salt 
J4 tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg Flour. 

Boil and mash potatoes, add butter, sugar, eggs and 2 c. flour 
mixed with salt and baking powder, then more flour tp make a 
soft dough. Turn on a floured board, roll J^-inch thick, cut and 
fry. 

SOUR Mltk^'VRIED CAKES 

J4 c. shortening I'tsp. soda 

2 c. sugar ' ' 1 tsp. cream tartar 

3 eggs yz tsp. salt 
1 pt. sour milk Flour. 

J^ tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg 

a. 

Mix in order given, mixing soda, cream of tartar and salt 
with 2 c. flour, then more flour to make a soft dough. Turn on ■ 
a floured board, roll about yi-'mch thick, cut and fry. 



94 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XVI 

PASTRY 

Pasti-y should be handled as little, as lightly and as quickly 
as possible. Winter wheat floUr should be used. Butter makes 
a crisp brown crust, lard a tender, white crust. The shortening^ 
a,nd water should be cold and mixed into the flour with a knife, 
that the heat of the hands may not soften the shortening. Never 
use cheap materials for a pie. Plastry should, be put into a hot 
oven, and then the heat lessened after a short time,' to cook 
thoroughly and brown. 

General proportions for pastry: Use one7third as much 
shortening as flour in making pastry, and 2 tbsp. water to each 
cup of flour. 

. PI,AIN PASTE 

iy2 c. flour Yz c. lard 

y2 tsp. salt Ice water 

Mix flour and salt. Cut in the lard with a knife. Add water 
gradually, using only enough to moisten. Turn on a floured 
board and roll one-half of it for the lower crust, about yi of an 
inch thick. Fifloosely on a pan, cutting around the edges with a 
knife. Brush the edge lightly with cold water to make the two 
crusts stick together. The pie is then ready, to fill. After filling, 
roll out the rest of the dough, making incision in the center to al- 
low the steam to escape. Fit the upper crust to the lower crust, 
cut the edges to fit the pan, and press them together to prevent 
the juices from e'scaping. 

APPLE PIE 
Pare and slice apples. Fill the lower crust,, heaping slightiy 
in the center. Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg or cinnamon. 
Add a little flour, dot with butter, add a little water. Put on the 
upper crust and bake 35 to 4o min. To prevent, the juice from 
runmng out of the center of the pie, insert a piece of macaroni 
m the center, or make a paper funnel, insert in the center: To 
prevent the juice from running from the edge of the pie, lay a 
narrow strip of damp cloth around the edge before baking 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 95 



LSMON PIS 

1 c. sugar yolks of 2 eggs 

2y2. tbsp. cornstarch grated rind and juice of 1 

1 c. boiling water lemon 

1 tsp. butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add boiling water, stirring con- 
° stantly. Cook 2 min., add butter, slightly beaten yolks and 
lemon. Pour into a crust, which has been previously baked. 
Cool .slightly and cover with meringue, and brown. 

MERINGUE 

Whites of 2 eggs 2 tsp. lemon juice, or y^ tsp. 

4 tbsp. powdered sugar . i vanilla 

Beat whites until stuff, add sugar gradually and flavoring. 
Spread on pie and bake slowly until brown. 

CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs 1^ c. milk 

3 tbsp. sugar Few gratings of nutmeg 
y^ tsp. salt ^ 

Beat eggs slightly, a,dd sugar, salt and milk. Line a deep 

pie tin with pastry and build up a fluted or high rim. Strain the 

mixture and sprinkle with the nutmeg. Bake in a quick oven 

■ to set the rim, decrease the heat afterwards, as t.g% and milk in 

combination need to cook at a low temperature. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 
1 c. boiling! water 2 eggs 

1 c. brown sugar 3 tbsp. flour 

1 tbsp. butter 1 c. milk 

Cook water, sugar and butter until they form a heavy syrup ; 
cool. Add the flour, to the well-beaten t^ yolkS, still until 
smooth, then add milk. Combine the two mixtures and cook 
until ttiick, stirring constantly. Fill a baked pastry shell with this 
mixture and cover with meringue made from two t.gg whites. 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



' , , COCOA MARSH MALLOW PI5 

4 tbsp. cocoa 1 tsp. butter 

4 tbsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. vanilla 

Yi c. sugar spk salt. 
2 c. milk 

Mix cocoa, cornstarch and sugar. Add milk slowly, cook J^ 
hr. in a double boiler, add salt, butter and vanilla. Cool ; put into 
a baked pastry shell. Cut marshmallows into strips, arrange on 
top of the pie, sprinkle with cocbanut, and brown in the oven 
quickly. 

PUMPKIN OR SQUASH PIE 

\yi c. steamed and strained J^ c. milk 

squash or pumpkin J^ tsp. cinnamon, ginger, nut- 

J4 c. sugar , meg or J4 tsp. lemon ext. 

J4 tsp. salt : ' 1 &gg 

Mix sugar, salt and spices or extract. Add squash, z%%, 
slightly beaten and milk gradually. Bake in one crust, follow- 
ing directions for custard pie. 

GREENTOMATO MINCE MEAT 

J4 pk. green tomatoes, ground or chopped fine. Add J4 c. 
salt, mix well and drain in a bag over night. 

Place in a granite kettle, add 1 pt. watier, 1 pt. vinegar. Boil 
15 min. , Drain in bag 2 hrs. Put in kettle, add 2>^ ibs. brown 
sugar, 1 lb. raisins, y^ lb. currants, 1 c. vinegar and boil 1 hr. 
Add yi lb. beef suet ground or chopped fine, 1 tbsp. cinnamon, 1 
tbsp. cloves, 1 tbsp. nutmeg. Boil IS min. longer.- Seal. This 
makes .5 pts. ' ' 

CRANBERRY TARTS > " 

Line a pan with pastry. Fill with stewed sweetened cran- 
berries. Lay strips of crust, lattice fashion over the top and 
bake. 

PRUIT PIES OF ALL KINDS 

Use about 3 c. prepared fruit for each pie. Heap fruit in 
center. Sprinkle with sugar to sweeten; if juicy, add 1 tsp. of 
flour with sugar. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 97 



CHAPTER XVII 

SIMPLE DESSERTS 

Desserts are placed at the end of the meal because they are 
sweet and should be simple or elaborate to correspond with the 
rest of the meal. 

A simple dessert is one containing a small amount of sugar 
and fat. 

STEAMJNG 

A mould or tightly covered tin can may be used for batters, 
while doughs may be placed in the bottom of a steamer. The 
mould and cover should be thoroughly greased, and if it has no' 
cover a piece of strong paper, greased, may be tied over the top. 
Place the mould in a steamer over boiling water or on a rack in 
a kettle of boiling water. Keep the water boiling and as it 
evaporates, fill with more boiling water. Fill the mould a little 
more than half full. 

SUET PUDDING 

2y2 c. flour Vi tsp. ginger 

1 tsp. soda 1 c. suet, chopped 

i/$ tsp. salt 1 c. raisins, chopped 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 c. currants 

Yz tsp. nutmeg 1 c. milk 

J4 tsp. cloves 1 c. molasses 

Mix in order givp, pour into buttered mold, cover and 
steam 3 hrs. 

LEMON SNOWBALLS 

3 eggs beaten separately Grated rind and juice J4 lemon 

1 c. sugar 1 c. flour 

3.tbsp. water 1 tsp. baking powder 

Beat yolks, add sugar, lemon rind and juice, and water, then 
flour mixed with baking powder. Fold in beaten whites and 
steam in buttered cup Yz hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 



98 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. shortening 

4 tsp. baking i>owder 1 scant c. milk 

. J4 tsp. salt 3 apples 

Mix as for baking-powder biscuits. Roll J4 inch thick. Put 
saucer on dough, and cut around with a knife. Place on this 
dough sliced apples. Sprinkle with sugar, fold the dough over 
the apple, pincking it down thoroughly. Steam 1 hour and serve 
with a sauce or cream, or place in a baking dish and pour over 
them a syrup with Ic. sugar, 2 c. boiling water and 1 tbsp. butter. 
Bake 45 minutes, covering the first half hour. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

J4 c. butter IJ^ c. graham flour 

J^ c. milk Yz tsp. soda 

Yi c. molasses 1 tsp. Scilt 

1 ^gg 1 c. raisins chopped 

Melt butter, add milk, molasses and beaten ^g, mixed dry 
ingredients and floured raisins. Pour into a buttered mold, cover 
and steam. 2^ hrs. Serve with sauce. Individual molds require 
Ihr. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

2 c. flour 4 tbsp. butter and lard mixed 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 c. milk 
Yi tsp. salt 1 t:gg 

2 apples 

Mix dry ingredients, cut in the butter, add milk and beaten 
^%- Spread on greased shallow pans. Pare, core and cut apples 
in sKces, laying them in rows on top of the dough, pressing in 
lightly. Sprinkle top with sugar and cinnamon mixed, and bake 
in a hot oven from 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with sauce. 

PEACH COBBLER 

1 c. flour 6 or 8 peaches 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. butter 
J4 tsp. salt ^ c. milk 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 99 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit. Pare and slice peaches 
and put in the bottom of a baking dish. Add Ic. sugar and J^ c. 
water. Cover with batter and bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with cream and sugar. Canned or dried peaches 
or berries may be used. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 
1 egg 2 c. flour 

^ c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

3 tbsp. melted butter Y^ tsp. salt 

1 .c. milk 

Beat egg, add sugar, melted butter and milk, then flour mixed 
with salt and baking powder. Beat and bake in a shallow greased ' 
pan and serve with lemon sauce. 

SHORT CAKE 

Wash strawberries before hulling. Peaches, oranges, pine- 
apples and red raspberries may also be used for short cake. If 
the fruits are not juicy, sugar and a little water may be added. 
Let them stand a short time before using. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. lard 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. butter 
^ tsp, salt 1 scant c. milk 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit, roll ^ inch thick and bake 
in a quick oven. Split carefully with a thread or hot knife and 
spread with butter. Sweeten strawberries to taste, crush slightly 
and put them between Efnd on top of the oake. 

To make individual short cake, pat the dough a little 
thinner than for short cake. Cut with a cookie cutter. Place 
one on top of another with melted butter between them. They 
will come apart very easily. 

Short oake dough is the same as biscuit dough with more 

shortening added. 

BROWN BETTY- 

4 slices bread, buttergd' 1 c milk or water 

4 apples y^ tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar 



100 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



Put a layer of bread in a buttered baking dish, then a. layer 
of sliced apple. Sprinkle with sugar and spice, continuing until 
bread, apples and sugar is used. Pour milk or water over it, and 
bake until apples are soft. Lemon juice may be added. 

CREAMY RICE PUDDING 

y^ c. rice >4 tsp. salt 

Yt. c. sugar 1 qt. milk 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, pour into a pudding dish. Bake 
from 2 to 3 hours in a very slow o-\^en at first, then let it brown 
slightly. Serve hot or cold. 

RICE PUDDING 

2 c. cooked rice J^ c. sugar 

J4 c. raisins Vanilla or cinnamon 

1 c. milk 

Mix all together, put into a pudding dish and bake until 
brown. An t.%g, thoroughly beaten may be added if desired. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 
Yi lb. prunes Whites of 3 eggs 

1 c. sugar. 

Cook prunes until very tender. Put through a sieve. When 
cool, add sugar and beaten whites. Bake in a buttered pan set in 
a pan of hot water in a moderate oven about 20 min. For prune 
whip, use whites of two eggs, cut prunes instead of straining and 
do not bake. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

1 pt. milk 6 tb»p. sugar 

2 or 3 eggs yi tsp. salt 

Scald the milk. Add sugar and salt to the beaten eggs, and 
pour the milk slowly over them. Put in a buttered baking dish, 
grate nutmeg over the top, Set the dish in a pan of hot water, 
and bake till a silver knife, when i;iserted, will come out clean. 
If baked too long the custard will separate and become watery. 

For rice pudding, baked custard, blanc mange and tapioca 
cream, a variation may be made by adding one square of choco- 
late. This should be added to the other ingredients before 
cooking. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 101 

COOKED CUSTARD OR Fl<OAT.ING ISLAND 

2 c. milk J^ c. sugar 

Yolks of 3 eggs or 2 whole J^ tsp. salt 

eggs J4 tsp. vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat eggs slightly, add 
sugar and salt. Pour the hot milk gradually on the eggs, stirring 
constantly. Cook in a double boiler till the mixture thickens and 
a coating is formed on the spoon. Take custard from the fire be- 
fore it is done, as the heat of the boiler cooks it even while it is 
being turned out. If it begins to curdle, set the upper part of 
the double boiler immediately into a pan of cold water and beat 
with a Dovfer egg beater. Strain if necessary, cool and flavor. 
Beat the whites of eggs and sweeten with powdered sugar, using 
1 tbsp. of sugar for each egg. Put in a pan on top of hot water, 
and bake in the oven till brown, or cook by dropping from a spoon 
in hot water, on the top of the stove. Serve on the custard. 

CARAMBI, CUSTARD 

}i c. sugar }i tsp. salt 

2 c. hot milk J^ tsp. vanilla 

2 beaten eggs 

Melt sugar as for caramel syrup, add slowly the scalded milk, 
cook till sugar melts. Pour slowly over the beaten eggs, add 
flavoring. Pour into buttered cups and bake as baked custard. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

% c. tapioca yi c sugar 

3 c. boiling water 5 apples 
J^ tsp. salt • 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak in cold water over night or 
several hours. Minute tapioca need not- be soaked. Pour over 
it the boiling water and cook in a double boiler until transparent. 
Stir often, and add salt. Pare and slice apples, put into a baking 
dish, sprinkle over them the sugar, and if liked, lemon juice. 
Pour over them the tapioca and bake until apples are very soft. 
Serve hot or cold. A delicious variation can be made by using 
half pears or canned quinces and half apples. • 



102 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



TAPIOCA CREAM 

J4 c. pearl tapioca % c sugar 

1 pt. milk ys tsp. salt 

2 eggs J4 tsp. vanilla 

Soak tapioca in enough hot water to cover, in the top of the 
double boiler, placed on the back of the stove. When the water 
is absorbed, add the milk and cook until the tapioca is transparent 
and soft. Add sugar and salt to the beaten yolks. Pour the 
boiling mixture slowly on them, return to the double boiler and 
cook 2 min. or till it thickens slightly. Remove from the fire, add 
the flavoring and beaten whites. Cool and serve. 

BLANC MANGE 

}i c. comstardh 1 pt. milk 

}i c. sugar Lemon rind or cinnamon stick 

}i tsp. salt 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt. Add scalded milk, lemon 
rind or cinnamon stick. Cook 20 minutes in a double boiler. Re- 
move rind or cinnamon stick and pour into molds, wet with cold 
water. Cool and serve with cream and sugar or boiled custard. 

FRUIT PUDDING 

1 c. cooked fruit ^ c. sugar 

1 tbsp. lemon juice Spk. cinnamon 
V/s c. boiling water % c. cornstarch 

Add sugar, cinnamon and water to fruit: Thicken with 
cornstarch wet in a little cold water. Cook over fire till thick, 
then over hot water, 20 minutes. Add lemon juice. Serve cold 
with cream. 

ORANGE CORNSTARCH 

2 or 3 oranges 2 c. milk 

4 tbsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. vanilla 

J/2 c. sugar 1 egg 

Ys tsp. salt 

Slice the oranges in the bottom of a baking dish and sprinkle 
with 3 tbsp. sugar. 

Mix the cornstarch, sugar, and salt thoroughly. Pour the 
scalded milk over it, and cook till it thickens. Add the yolk of 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 103 

the egg when slightly cooled and the vanilla. Pour this blanc 
mange over the oranges. Beat the white of , the egg till stiff on a 
plate, addl tbsp. powdered sugar. Spread this lightly over the 
pudding and bake in the oven till a delicate brown. 

INDIAN CORN PUDDING 

1 pt. milk J/2 c. molasses 
^2 c. flour % c. suet 

j4 c. corn meal yi tsp. salt 

Yz c. sugar y2 tsp. cinnamon 

2 eggs 

Put half of the milk in the double boiler. Mix remainder ol 
milk, flour and com meal, add to the milk in the boiler. When 
thick, take from the fire, and add rest of the ingredients. Bake 1 
hour. 

GELATINE DESSERTS 
LEMON JELIvY 

2 tbsp. gran, gelatine 1 c. sugar 

Yz c. cold water 2j4 c. boiling water 

Juice of yi lemon 

Soak gelatine in the cold water until soft. Add boiling 
water. Wben gelatine is dissolved, add sugar and strained lemon 
juice. Strain carefully into a wet mold and set aside to stiffen. 

SNOW PUDDING 

}i box gelatine (Knox) 1 c. sugar 

}i c. cold water 4 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 c. boiling water Whites 3 eggs beaten stiff 

Soak the gelatine in cold water 10 min. Add the boiling 
water, sugar and lemon juice. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
Cool until like thick cream stirring occasionally. Then beat the 
whites of eggs. Add to the gelatine and whip in lightly. When 
it commences to thicken, pour into a wet mould and set on ice 
until firm. ^ Serve with a boiled custard made from the yolks of 
the eggs. 



104 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 tbsp. granulated gelatine % c. sugar 

J4 c. cold water 1^4 c, heavy cream 

J4 c. hot milk vanilla 

macaroons, lady fingers or sponke cake 

Soak gelatine in oold water, add hot milk and sugar. Stir 
till dissolved, strain and cool. Beat cream until solid and add 
gelatine mixture spoonful at a time. Flavor. Line a mold wet 
in cold water with cake and fill with cream. . Chill on ice. 

PUDDING SAUCES 
CARAMEI* SAUCE 

Yt. c. sugar 1/2 c. boiling water 

Put sugar into a frying pan and stir with a buttered spoon 
over a slow fire till melted. Add water and simmer 10 minutes. 

HARD SAUCE 

Vz c. butter 1 c. powdered or granulated 

% tsp. lemon extract or vanilla sugar 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and flavoring. Cool and 
serve in balls. When butter and sugar are creamed the beaten 
white of one &g% may be added. Cool and serve. 

CREAMY SAUCE 

Ya c. butter 4 tbsp. cream 

Y2 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter. Add sugar gradually and the. cream drop 
by drop. Set over hot water and heat till smooth and creamy, 
but do not melt the butter. Flavor. 

FOAMY SAUCE (eARGE AMOUNT) 

% c. sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, cream together, thoroughly. 
When ready to use add 1 whole tgg, beaten, and beat all togther 
until light, add Y2 tsp. vanilla, and Ya ox Yz pt. cream whipped. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 105 

BROWN SUGAR PUDDING SAUCE 

2 tbsp. butter 1 c. brown sugar 

4 tbsp. flour 2 tbsp. lemonjuice 

lj4 c. hot water or 1 tsp. vEinilla 

Melt butter, add flour and then hot water gradually. Cook 
until thick and smooth and add sugar. Stir until sugar is melted, 
add lemon juice and serve hot. 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 c. hot water Grated rind and juice of 1 

1 c. sugar lemon or 2 oranges 

2 tbsp. cornstarch 1 tbsp. butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch and pour over them the boiling 
water. Cook ten minutes, remove from the fire and add the 
lemon rind, juice and butter. Stir till butter is melted and serve. 

FROZEN DESSERT 

When ice and salt are mixed, a double action takes place. 
The salt makes the ice melt and the melting ice ^dissolves the salt. 
If packed around some other liquid, they draw the heat from it so 
fast that it freezes. Melting ice and salt reaches a temperature 
of about 10 degrees F. (above zero), while the freezing point of 
water alone is 32 degrees F. This is why a mixture of salt and 
ice is used to freeze ice cream. 

T<T pack the freezer. Adjust before starting to pack. Put 
the ice into a strong canvas bag and pound very fine. Use rock 
salt, fine salt will not answer the purpose. Fill the space between 
can and pail with alternate layers of ice and salt, using three 
measures of ice to one of salt. 

The ice and salt should come a little above the height at 
which the cream will stand in the can. Pack ice and salt solidly, 
turning crank a few times to let the mixture settle. Turn the 
crank slowly and steadily for twenty minutes. When freezing 
is accomplished, remove dasher and with a spoon pack the ice 
cream. Draw oflf the water, repack the freezer, using four 
measures of Ice to one of salt, and let stand from one to three 
hours to ripen. 



106 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



ICE CREAM 

2 tbsp. flour 1 pt. milk 

1 c. sugar 1 pt. cream 

}i tsp. salt 1 tbsp. cream 

1 egg 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add scalded milk gradually. 
Cook over hot water IS min., stirring constantly at first. Stir in 
the egg; cook same. Cool, add cream and flavoring. Strain 
and freeze. 

PINEAPPI,E SHERBET 
1 pt. pineapple, shredded white of 1 egg 

1 qt. boiling water juice and grated rind of 1 

2 c. sugar lemon 

Make a syrup of water and sugar, add pineapple and lemon 
juice. 

When cool put in can of freezer and when partly frozen add 
beaten white of egg. Continue freezing until stiff. Let stand 
1 or 2 hours to ripen. 

LEMON ICE 

4 c. water ^ c. lemon juice 

2 c. sugar grated rind of 2 lemons 

Boil sugar and water for 10 minutes. Add lemon juice and 
rind, cool, strain and freeze. 

Other fruits may be used allowing the same proportions of 
juice and water, as given in Lemon Ice. 

MILK SHERBET 

1 qt. milk 4 lemons 

Ij^ c. sugar White of 1 egg 

Beat white of egg and add sugar, lemon juice and milk. 
Freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 qt. cream 2 c. sugar 

lyi qts. strawberries 

Hull berries, sprinkle with half the sugar, mash and rub 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 107 

through a strainer. Scald one-half the cream with the remain- 
ing half of the sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, cool and 
add the rest of the cream and berries. Freeze. 

chocoi<ath; ice cream 
2 oz. chocolate 2 tbsp. flour 

2 tbsp. sugar Ipt. milk 

2 tbsp. hot water 1 c. sugar 

1 pt. cream J4 tsp. salt 

2 eggs 

Beat eggs. Mix flour and 1 c. sugar; add to eggs. Then 
add milk. Cook in double boiler 10 minutes. Melt chocolate, 
add the 2 tbsp. sugar and hot water; cook until glossy, then add 
egg mixture. Cool ; add cream and salt. Freeze. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM 

1 can apricots — ^large 2 qts. milk 

Sugar 

Put apricots thru sieve. Add fruit to milk; also sugan 
Make very sweet as during freezing some sweetness is lost. 
Freeze. Cream may be substituted for all or part of the milk 
if desired. 

CONDENSED MII,K ICE CREAM 

1 c. sugar \ 1 egg (well beaten) 

1 tall can condensed milk Juice of 1 lemon 

Yt. pt. table cream 

Mix all together. Strain and add 1 pt. friut either mashed 
or cut into small pieces. Freeze in usual manner. 



108 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XVIII 

SANDWICHES 

Bread for sandwiche? should be at least a day old and cut 
in thin slices. Use butter creamed until very soft as it spreads 
more easily and takes "less butter. 

Fit slices of bread carefully together. Removes crusts if de- 
sired or cut sandwiches into fancy shapes with a cookie cutter. 
Have plenty of filling, but be careful it does not come out on the 
edges. 

Sandwiches for a picnic can be kept moist by wrapping them 
in waxed paper. For a luncheon, place in bowl covered with a 
slightly dampened cloth and put them in a cool place. 

IvETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Shred lettuce and put a little on the buttered bread. Dot 
with salad dressing, cover with lettuce and press on the other 
slice of bread. Trim edges of lettuce with scissors and cut in 
half. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Chop cold hard-cooked eggs, moisten with salad dressing and 
spread thinly between slices of buttered bread. One egg makes 
three sandwiches. 

HAM SANDWICHES 

Miince cold boiled ham and moisten with salad dressing or 
melted butter and spread between buttered bread; or put cold 
boiled ham sliced very thinly between slices of buttered bread. 
One tbsp. of minced ham makes one sandwich. 

EEUSH SANDWICHES 

Chop olives, pickles and English walnuts very fine and 
moisten with salad dressing. Spread thinly between slices of 
buttered bread. 

Pimentos may be added. 

BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Mash Neufchatel cheese, add chopped olives and spread 
thinly between slices of buttered isrown bread. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 109 

LETTUCE, CREAM CHEESE AND PIMENTO SANDWICHES 

Allow 2 pimentos to one-half pound of cream cheese. Cream 
iJie cheese, chop pimentos fine and add to cheese. With a dough- 
nut cutter, stamp out rings of bread from a slice of bread. 
Spread these with chili sauce salad dressing and then with cream 
cheese mixture. Set a leaf of lettuce between each two rounds 
to show through hole in center. 

HONEY AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Grind English walnut meats or chop very fine ; add to honey 
until a paste is formed. Spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread. 

Raisins, dates or figs may be chopped and mixed with ground 
nut meats to form a paste for sandwiches. Brown or graham 
bread may be used instead of white. 

CHEESE EEWSH SANDWICHES 

Yi c. cottage dheese J/^ slice pimento 

6 — 8 English walnut meats . 1 sprig parsley 
2 small sweet pickles 

Mince the pickles, nut meats, parsley, pimento. Combine 
with the cottage cheese, and spread on the bread. 



110 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER XIX 

CANDY 
PROPERTIES OF SUGAR 

Pure cane sugar consists of a mass of white crystals. It is 
very sweet in taste. It dissolves readily in cold water and more 
rapidly in warm or hot water. 

When heated from. 320° F. to 376° F. sugar melts into a 
clear, colorless liquid which gradually turns to an amber hue. 

If at this point it is cooled, it hardens into a glassy mass, 
transparent and brittle, called "Barley Sugar." If heated to a 
higher degree (420°F.) it turns brown, becomes less sweet and 
takes on a bitter flavor. This is called "Caramel." 

PEANUT BRITTI,E — 1 
1 c. granulated sugar Pinch of salt 

1 c. shelled peanuts 

Remove skins from nuts and spread on a buttered pie tin. 
Carmalize the sugar; that is, melt it carefully and slowly and 
when entirely melted add salt and pour over the nuts. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

2 c. granulated sugar J^ c. milk 

2 sqrs. chocolate 1 tbsp. butter 

Put sugar, chocolate and milk .together in a saucepan and 
cook over fire, stirring constantly, until when tried in cold water 
the mixture will form a soft. ball. Remove from fire, add butter 
and beat vigorously until creamy. When it begins to harden, 
pour out quickly into buttered pans. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 

1 c. sugar 2 tbsp. boiling water 
% c. molasses J^ c. butter 

2 tbsp. vinegar 

Boil ingredients together until when tried in cold water the 
mixture will become brittle. Turn into a well-buttered pan; 
when slightly cool mark with a sharp pointed knife into squares. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 111 



PANOCHE 

1 c. brown sugar Y^ tbsp. butter 

J4 c. milk y^ c. nut meats 

Mix sugar, milk and butter. Cook as for fudge and before 
turning into pan add nuts. 

GLACE NUTS 

1 c. sugar scant ^c. water spk. cream of tartar 

Boil slowly without stirring until syrup begins to discolor, 
which is 310'T'*. Remove from fire, and place in pan of cold 
water to stop boiling; then place a pan of hot water during 
dipping. Without moving more than is necessary, drop in one 
nut at a time and remove to waxed paper or a buttered plate. 
Let it get very cold. 

UNCOOKBD tONDANT 

White of 1 ^gg 2 tsp. cold water 

About 1 c. confectioner's sugar 

Add water to the unbeaten egg, then sugar slowly, stirring 
constantly until stiff enough to mould. 

This may be used as a foundation for many candies, used in 
combination with nuts, dates, figs, grapes, pineapple, or dipped in 
chocolate. 

COOKED FONDANT 

1 lb. granulated sugar ^ c. water 

Stir until sugar is dissolved, but not after it begins to bubble. 
When it first bubbles, add J^ tsp. of cream of tartar. Boil, with- 
out stirring. When it forms a soft ball between the fingers in 
cold water, remove from the fire. During the boiling if crystals 
form on the side of the pan,, wipe off with a damp cloth. Pour 
into a platter or on a marble slab and leave undisturbed until 
nearly cold. Work back and forth until creamy. Flavor to taste 
and shape. This may be kept several days before shaping, if 
covered with a damp cloth. 

To make mints, melt fondant, add flavoring and coloring. 
Pour from a teaspoon on to waxed paper. Let stand till cool. 

TO DIP CHOCOLATE 

Pitt chocolate broken in pieces, in a dish set over hot water. 
Add a few grati&gs of paraffin. As soon as chocolate is melted 



112 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



dip creams made in desired shapes into it, until all sides are 
covered. Let drip a few moments and place carefully on oiled 
paper. The paraffin makes the chocolate harden. 

STUFFED DATES 
Wash and remove stones from dates. Stuff with nuts or 
rolls of cream candy and roll in granulated sugar. 

SEA FOAM CANDY 

1 c. brown sugar % c. water 

1 c. white sugar white of 1 egg 

Boil together until the syrup threads from a fork. Beat the 
white of egg and pour the boiling syrup over it gradually, beating 
all the time. Beat until it drops from the spoon without running. 
PUFFED RICE BRITTLE 

Boil together 1 c. granulated sugar, ^4 c. water and 1 tsp. 
vinegar for 5 minutes. Then add 2 tbsp. molasses, 1 tbsp. butter 
and ^2 tsp. salt. Boil until a few drops in cold water becomes 
hard and brittle. Take from the fire, stir in }^ package puffed 
rice previously crisped in the oven, and spread in a dish to cool, 
or roll into balls. 

PEANUT BRITTLE — II 

1 c. granulated sugar }i tsp. soda 

J4 c. roasted, chopped peanuts 

Caramelize the sugar. Stir in the soda, stir in the nuts. 
When through foaming turn it on a well-buttered marble or metal 
surface. When cooled a little at the edges, take hold of it at the 
edges and pull as thin as possible. 

POPCORN BALLS 

lj4 c- molasses J4 tbsp. vinegar 

^ c. brown sugar J4 tbsp. butter 

3 qts. popped corn 

Boil the molasses, sugar, vinegar and butter until the syrup is 
almost brittle when dropped in cold water. Salt the popcorn 
lightly. Pour the syrup over about two-thirds of the corn. Shape 
large spoonfuls into balls and roll in the dry pop corn until no 
more will stick to the balls. Wrap in waxed paper. 

STEAMED FIGS 

Steam bag figs until plump, after they are cool fill with half 
a marshmallow. ® 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 113 



CHAPTER XX 

CANNING 
METHODS OF CANNING 

There are two general methods of canning: the open kettle 
or hot-pack method and the cold-pack method. 

HOT-PACK METHOD OF CANNING 

The food material is cooked thoroughly and is packed, boil- 
ing hot, into hot sterilized jars and then sealed. Fruit canned 
by this method will keep, but vegetables, other than tomatoes, 
will not. 

SELECTION Olf JARS AND RUBBERS 

Fruit jars should be examined and defective ones discarded. 
It is far better to use new rubbers than to run the risk of old 
ones. 

TO STERILIZE JARS AND RUBBERS 

Jars, tops and rubbers should be thoroughly washed and 
sterilized. To sterilize them fill the jars with cold water, place 
them with the covers on a rack in a pan of cold water, the water 
completely covering them. Bring to a boil gradually and con- 
tinue to boil for 10 or IS minutes. Empty and fill with fruit 
while hot. Dip the rubbers in boiling water before sealing. 

TEST FOR RUBBERS 

1. Pull hard and if rubber springs back to original shape 
it is good. 

2. Press a fold in the rubbers; turn and press in same 
place — if no crease remains the rubber is good. 

3. A dozen new rubbers should not be more than one inch 
in thickness. 

GENERAL RULE FOR CANNING FRUIT 

Allow from 1/3 to >^ lb. of sugar to every pound of fruit, 
and from 1>4 to 2 c. of water to every pound of sugar. Boil the 
sugar and water 10 minutes, add fruit and cook until tender. 
Place the sterilized jars on a wet cloth, fill with fruit and over- 
flow with syrup, force out all air bubbles, adjust sterilized rubbers 
and covers. 



114 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

CANNED PEARS 

Wipe and pare fruit. Cook whole with stems left on, or re- 
move stems cut in halves, and core. Follow general rule for can- 
ning fruit. A small piece of ginger root or a few slicings of 
lemon rind may be cooked with syrup. Bartlett pears are best for 
canning. 

CANNED PINEAPPLES 

Pare and remove eyes from pineapples then cut in J^-inch 
slices, and slices in cubes, at the same time discarding the core. 
Follow general rule for canning fruit. 

CANNED CHERRIES 

Use large white or red cherries. Wash, remove stems, pit if 
desired, then follow general rule for canning. 

CANNED PEACHES 

Wipe peaches and pare, or if the peaches are firm and solid, 
put in boiling water, allowing them to stay just long enough to 
loosen the skins. Remove skins and cook fruit at once following 
the general rule given above. 

CANNED TOMATOES 

Pour boiling water over tomatoes. Remove the skin and 
hard, green stems, put in a granite kettle and boil twenty minutes, 
skimming often during the cooking. Fill sterilized jars. Dark 
jars are better for tomatoes than clear ones. Seal at once. 

COLD-PACK METHOD OF CANNING 

The Cold-pack process is divided into five steps : 

1. Blanching: The food is blanched, i. e., cooked for a 
certain period of time in boiling water or in a steamer. 

2. Cold Dipping : It is then cold dipped, i. e., plunged into 
cold water and drained. 

3. Packing: The vegetables or fruits are then packed in 
clean hot jars. Hot water (1 tsp. salt to each qt. jar, yi tsp. to 
each pt. jar), for vegetables, and syrup for fruits is usually 
added to fill jar, the rubbers and tops adjusted so as partially to 
seal. 

4. Cooking : The cans are placed on a rack in boiling water 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



115 



which completely covers them 2 or 3 inches. They are boiled for 
the required length of time. (Consult a canning time table.) 

5. Sealing: When cooked the required length of time, the 
jars are lifted out of the water, the lid immediately tightened to 
seal completely and stood upside down to cool. . Ill this way, 
leakage can be detected. 

CANNING WITHOUT • SUGAR 

Fruits and fruit juices can be completely and successfully 
sterilized without sugar by placing the filled jars in a kettle of hot 
water and cooking for thirty minutes. These can be Sweetened 
at the time of using, or if plenty of sugar is available, may be 
made into jelly or jam. 

FRUIT AND VEGETABLE CANNING CHART 

BASED ON HOMB CANNING WORK CONDUCTED BY 

THE AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT OE 

THE EEDERAIv GOVERNMENT 



Products to be 


Preparations 


Boiling Water 


Processing or 


Canned 




or Syrup 


Cooking 
Period 


Soft Fruits: 


Grade, rinse, 


3 cups sugar to 


Hot water bath. 


Strawberries 


stem, pack 


3 cups water. 


strawberries 


Dewberries 


whole 


Boil for 4 min. 


8 min., other 


Blackberries 




or until 104 


fruits 16 min. 


Blueberries 




degrees C. or 
219 degrees F. 




Peaches 


Grade, rinse. 


is registered. 




Apricots 


seed, skin or 






Sweet Cherries 


pit. Pack 






Plums 


cherries whole, 
peaches and 
apricots pack 
in half. 






Sour Berry Fruit: 


Stem, pit, blanch 




Hot water bath 


Currants 


in hot water 1 




16 minutes. 


Gooseberries 


min. Dip quick- 






Cranberries 


ly into cold water. 






Sour Cherries 


Pack whole 








closely. 






Hard Fruits: 


Grade, blanch 154 




Hot water bath 


Apples 


min. in hot water 




20 minutes. 


Pears 


dip quickly into 






Quinces 


cold water. Skin, 
core, pack whole, 
quartered or 
sliced. 







116 



HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



FRUIT AND VEGETABLE CANNING CHART 




(Continued) 




Products to be 


Preparations 


Boiling Water 


Processing or 


Canned 




or Syrup 


Cooking 
Period 


Vegetable Greens: 


Blanch in steam 


Fill jar with 


Hot water 


Asparagus 


from IS to 20 


boiling water. 


bath 90 min., 


Spinach 


min. Dip into 


Add H tsp. salt 


except cauli- 


Cauliflower 


cold water. Cut to 1 pt. jar 


flower, 120 


Brussels Sprouts 


in convenient 


or 1 tsp. to 1 qt. 


minutes. 


Beet Tops 


sizes. Pack 


jar. 




Swiss Chard 


tight, season 






Kale 


to taste.' 






French Endive 








Dandelion 








Tomatoes: 


Scald long 


Add 1 tsp. salt 


Hot water 




enough to loosen to 1 qt. jar or 


bath 22 iiiin. 




skins. Dip 


J^ tsp. salt to 






quickly into 


1 pt. jar. 






cold water, core 








and skin. Pack 








whole. 






Com: 


Blanch on cob 


Fill jar with 


Hot water 




from 3 to 5 min. 


boiling water. 


3 hours.' 




Dip quickly into 


Add 1 tsp. salt 






cold water. Cut 


to 1 qt. jar or 






from cob with 


54 tsp. salt to 






sharp knife J 


1 pt. jar. 






pack loosely. 






Legumes: 


Cull, string, 


Fill jar with 


Hot water 


Peas 


grade, blanch 


boiling water. 


bath 3 hours. 


Lima Beans 


from 2 to 5 min.l, 


Add 1 tsp. salt 




String Beans 


in boiling water. 


to 1 qt. jar or 




Lentils 


Pack whole. 


H tsp. salt to 
1 pt. jar. 




Roots: 


Cleanse thor- 


Fill jar with 


Hot water 


Beets 


oughly. Scald 


boiling water. 


bath 90 


Carrots 


till skins are 


Add 1 tsp. salt 


minutes. 




loose. Dip 


to 1 qt. jar or 






quickly into cold 


^ tsp. salt to 






water. Remove 


1 pt. jar. 






skins. Pack 








whole or in cubes 







A syrup made of 3 cups of sugar to 2 cups of water and 
boiled for 4 minutes, or until it reaches the temperature of 104 
degrees C. or 219 degrees F. can be used in the canning of all 
fruits. The sugar should be well dissolved before placing on 
the fire, and the time counted when it begins to boil thfuout. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 117 



"Variations may be made to meet the individual tastes and 
the different kinds of fruits. If a thinner and lighter syrup is 
desired, do not boil sugar and water more than 2 or 3 minutes. 
If a thicker, heavier syrup is desired, boil the sugar and water 
not more than 5 minutes." 

JELLIES 
GENERAL RULES 
Wash fruit, remove sfems and iinperfections. 
Cut large fruit into pieces. 
Use no water with watery fruits. 

Cook until the juice flows and the fruit may be crushed 
easily with a spoon, then remove from fire and strain. 

Use from three-fourths to equal parts of juice and heated 
sugar. Boil juice, add sugar, boil again. 

Jelly should be removed from the fire when several drops 
form a sheet on the edge of the spoon. 

Skim, turn into sterilized jelly glasses. 

PECTIN 

The juice of fruits that contain pectin, a substance similar 
to gelatin, can be made into jelly. Pectin dissolves in boiling 
water and stififens upon cooling. It is most abundant in the 
harder, parts of fruits, the core and the skin. Apples, quinces, 
crab-apples, currants and grapes make the best jellies. 

Jelly must be covered to protect it from mold. Paraffin is 
convenient for this purpose. 

APPLE JELLY 
Wipe apples, remove stem and blossom ends, and cut in 
quarters. Put in a granite or porcelain-lined preserving kettle 
and add cold water to same nearly to top of apples. Avoid 
squeezing apples which makes jelly cloudy. Then allow juice to 
drip through a jelly bag. Boil twenty minutes and add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar; boil five minutes, skim and turn in 
glasses. Cover and keep in a cool, dry place. 



118 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

2 c. cranberries % c. cold water 

1 c. sugar 

Pick over or wash the cranberries ; put into a granite kettle — 
add the water and cook slowly for 10 minutes. Strain, add sugar 
and cook until it jellies. 

CURRANT JELLY 

10 lbs. ctirrants » 2 qts. cold water 

Pick over and wash currants. Do not remove stems. Add 
cold water. Cook 30 minutes. Drain through a cheese-cloth 
bag over night or for several hours. 

Measure juice and to every pint, allow 1 lb. of granulated 
sugar. 

Boil the juice rapidly for 10 minutes, add the sugar and boil 
rapidly for 5 minutes. Pour into jelly glasses. 

The drained currants may be boiled again with 1 qt. water. 
Repeat the process. This makes a delicate jelly. 

If a raspberry flavor is desired add 1 qt. red raspberries. 
Wash the berries and add to the currants just before taking from 
fire and strain all together. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Grapes should be picked over, washed, and stems removed 
before putting into a preserving kettle. Heat to boiling point, 
wash and boil 30 minutes; then proceed as for other jellies. 

Part green and part ripe grapes make the best jelly. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

Excellent jelly can be made by using 3 parts of strained 
strawberry juice to 1 part of rhubarb juice and % c. of sugar to 
each cup of juice. 

Jelly is made from the clear fruit juice and sugar. 

Marmalade, butters and jams are the crushed pulp and juice 
of fruits cooked with sugar until of a thick consistency. 

Conserves are mixtures of fruit with nuts and orange peel, 
prepared much the same as preserves. 

Marmalades, conserves and butters are made with from % to 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 119 

equal weights of sugar and fruit — ^not measured as in the case of 
jellies. 

CONSERVES 
BLUE PLUM CONSERVE 
S lbs. large Blue Plums 1 pkg. raisins 

S oranges 1 lb. Eng. walnuts 

2 lemons 4 lbs. sugar 

Stone the plums, and cut them into quarters. Wash the 
oranges, quarter and take out seeds, then grind them thru a food 
chopper. Chop the raisins. Mix altogether with the sugar and 
let stand over night. Cook slowly until the plum skins are soft ; 
then add the nuts chopped and put into jars. 

RHUBARB CONSERVE 

2 lbs. rhubarb 1 orange 

3 c. sugar 1 lemon 

j4 c. seeded raisins 1 c. walnut meats 

Wash rhubarb; cut into 1 inch pieces, sprinkle with sugar; 
add raisins; cut orange and lemon into thin slices, rejecting 
the seeds — add these and let stand until juice accumulates. Boil 
gently until thick, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Add 
nut meats — cook 2 minutes longer and pour into glasses. Seal 
when cold. 
NOTE: 

Ij^ lbs. plums, or 1 qt. cranberries with a qt. of water may 
be used in place of the rhubarb. 

PEACH JAM 

Peel, stone and cut peaches into small pieces. Weigh them 
and add equal weight of sugar. Mix well and let come slowly to 
a boil. Boil slowly ten minutes. Pour into sterilized jars, when 
cool, seal and label. 

MARMALADES 
ORANGE MARMALADE 

2 grapefruit 2 lemons 

2 oranges 

^lice lemon and orange very thinly. Dig out the pulp from 
the grapefruit. If desired the peeling of one grapefruit may be 



120 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



cut into very fine strips and added. Let the fruit stand over 
night in twice its quantity of water. In the morning cook until 
tender then let stand until the following day. Measure the fruit 
and juice and add an equal measure of sugar. Cook until thick 
or about 1 hr. 

PINgAPPLB-APRICOT MARMALADE 

2 pineapples 1 lb. dried apricots 

1 orange 

Wash apricots thoroughly and cook over night. Put all the 
fruit through the food chopper; add an equal amount of sugar 
and if needed some of the water in which the apricots were 
cooked. Cook slowly about an hour or until it thickens. 

STRAWBERRY-RHUBARB MARMAI,At)E 

Use equal weights of strawberries and rhubarb, and sugar 
equal to the weight of the fruit. 

Stew the rhubarb until tender then add berries and sugar. 
Cook until thickened stirring frequently. 

Apple juice and orange improve the flavor of this marmalade. 

To 4 qts. of berries add juice from 1 lb. apples and 1 orange. 

RHUBARB-PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 

2 lbs. rhubarb 1 lb. pineapple 

3 lbs. sugar 

L,et the cut fruit and sugar stand until sugar is well dissolved. 
Cook a few minutes then add the juice of 1 lb. apples and of 1 
lemon. Boil until it thickens. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 121 



RELISHES 
CHILI SAUCE 
Chop together 1 pk. tomatoes, 3 green peppers and 6 small 
onions. 

Put this into a kettle and add 1 c. sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 2 c. 
vinegar. Cook over a slow fire until done, seal in bottles or cans. 

PEPPER HASH OR RELISH 

12 sweet green peppers IS medium onions 

12 sweet red peppers 

Put all through a grinder. Pour over them boiling water 
and let stand for 5 minutes. Strain through a sieve. Again 
cover with boiling water, and stand for 10 minutes. Drain and 
cook IS minutes, with 1J4 pts. vinegar, 2 c. sugar, 3 tbsp. salt, 
Put away in glasses, or glass cans. 

QUICK PICKLES 

Wash freshly picked pickles thoroughly, pour over them 
boiling water, and let them stand until morning. 

Wipe them dry and pack them in jars with little onions. 

Boil 1 gal. vinegai' with 3 tbsp. celery seed, 2 tsp. mustard 
seed, 1 tsp. powdered alum, 2 c. brown sugar and 1 c. salt. Dilute 
the vinegar if too strong. Pour this over the pickles and seal. 

SPICED PEACHES 

2 c. vinegar 1 oz. stick cinnamon 

4 c. sugar J4 pk. peaches 

4 cloves for each peach 

Make a syrup of vinegar, sugar and seasonings, tied in a 
cheese-cloth. Scald, cool and peel peaches; put them into boil- 
ing syrup, and cook until soft, arrange in sterilized jars, cover 
them with the syrup ; adjust sterilized rubbers and covers. 

FRENCH OR MUSTARD PICKLES 

1 qt. green tomatoes 1 c. salt 

1 qt. onions (small) Yz c. flour 

1 qt. ripe cucumbers J4 oz. tumeric 

'1 qt. cauliflower 3 large green peppers 

2 qt. vinegar Yz c. mustard 



122 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

Clean the vegetables, chop them coarsely; mix salt with 
boiling water, pour over the vegetables and let stand until morn- 
ing. Drain off well. Plut tumeric, sugar, flour and mustard with 
vinegar, and cook until thick. Put into this the vegetables and 
let all come just to the boiling point, but do not let boil. Put in 
jars, seal and label. 

SLICED GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

2 gal. sliced green tomatoes 2 tbsp. ground mustard 

12 onions (sliced) 2 tbsp. salt 

2 tbsp. whole cloves 2 tbsp. whole allspice 

2 tbsp. black pepper 2 qts. vinegar 

1 qt. sugar 

Pack in jars and cover with the vinegar. 

PICKLED CHERRIES 

Select firm cherries, leave 1 inch of the stem, wash, and fill 
the cans with the cherries. 

For each pint can of cherries use: 

1 tbsp. salt 1 bay leaf 

2 tbsp. sugar 8 cloves 

Cover with half vinegar and half rain water, or freshly 
boiled water, cooled. Seal. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 123 



CHAPTER XXI 

TH^ FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 

Too much stress cannot be laid on the importance of proper 
food for young chlidren. The health not only of the child but 
of the adult of the future depends in a large measure on the type 
of food eaten by the child and the food habits acquired in child- 
hood. 

Up to the age of nine months the food of the baby consists 
almost entirely of milk. All milk must be modified to suit the 
of the individual child and must be done under the direction of a 
physician so nothing further will be said here on this subject. 

It is absolutely necessary that the bottles, nipples and dishes 
used in the preparation of milk for the baby be thoroughly and 
carefully sterilized every day.- 

After the baby is nine months old it may be given small 
amounts of other foods, of which cereals are usually the first. 

These must be very thoroughly cooked. The method of 
cooking will be described in the recipes which follow. 

After the baby is a year old it should begin to take some of 
its milk from a cup or spoon and by the time it is two years old 
should discard the bottle altogether. 

It is important to teach children to chew all foods well. 

Fruits, vegfetables, cereals and simple desserts together with 
milk form the pf incipal part of a child's diet. 

Fruits are best where stewed or baked. Raw fruits 
especially bananas and apples are not good foods for young 
children. Orange juice is excellent. Strained tomato juice and 
prune juice can also be used-. 

Bread stuffs should be at least twenty-four hours old and are 
best when toasted or dried. Vegetables must be thoroughly 
cooked and for very young children should be rubbed through a 
strainer. All food for children must be seasoned. 

Desserts must be simple-well cooked and very slightly 
sweetened. 



124 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

Children of early school age should have very simple diets. 
Fruit, cereal — a cooked rather than a ready prepared one — toast, 
milk or cocoa and occasionally an egg make a good breakfast. 

At noon — a cream soup — ^potato; or rice and another veget- 
able, a very little plainly cooked and seasoned meat or fish, bread 
and a simple dessert. 

A glass of milk may be given after school, if it doesn't inter- 
fere with the appetite for supper, which should be simple and 
light on the order of the bfeakfast. 

Eating between meals is a bad habit to allow the child to 
form, especially if sweets are eaten. This spoils the appetite for 
the simpler, more wholesome foods served at the meal. 

In introducing new foods into the child's diet, only one at a 
time should be given and in small quantity, until one sees if the 
food agrees. Do not allow the child to decide what it will or 
will not eat. 

A child should take at least a pint of milk daily. This in- 
cludes that used on cereal, in cream soups, custards, etc. 

Never give children fish or highly seasoned foods, tea or 
coffee — hot breads — such as biscuits or muffins, vegetables such as 
cucumber, cabbage and cauliflower, any food that is not perfectly 
fresh or ripe. 

Young children should be fed small quantities of food at 
stated intervals. For a diet schedule consult your physician. 

PREPARATION OF I^OOD FOR BABY 

CBREAivS Boil 20 minutes over a flame, stirring constantly, 

then cook 2 hours in a double boiler. 

SCRAPPED Broil a thick piece of round steak until both 

BEEF sides are browned. Stand on edge and with a sharp 

knife split open like a book. With a dull knife or 

the edge of a spoon scrape the pulp from the freshly 

cut surface. 

VEGETABLE Boil spinach, carrots, young turnips, string beans, 

MASH any one or altogether until soft enough to be rubbed 

through a sieve. The part that is rubbed through 

is "Vegetable Mash." 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 



125 



DRIED BREAD ' If Stale bread is not on hand — cut bread into 
rather thick slices, put into a slow oven and bake 
20 to 30 minutes or until thoroughly dried. 

TOAST Toast must be made very crisp and dry — all the 

way through. 

iFRUiT Prunes, apricots, etc., must be stewed — ^pits re- 

moved if necessary and then pulp pressed through a 
strainer. 

BEE? JUICE Salt and slightly broil small pieces of thick lean 
round steak and while hot express the juice -yvith a 
meat press or ricer. The juice may be given hot or 
cold. To heat — add a little warm water to the juice 
or put the glass containing the juice in a pan of 
warm water. Do not boil it. 

JUNKET See under milk Page 13. 

SOET COOKED 

POACHED EGGS See under milk Page 22. 
COCOA See under milk Page 11. 

CREAM SOUPS See under milk Page 26. 



126 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XXII 

SEMI-INVAUD DIET 

Often when there is sickness in the family the patient must 
be removed to a hospital, but if the patient remains at home- 
one of the things that hastens or retards his recovery is often 
"food." In many instances the doctor prescribes the diet, and 
care must be taken to follow his directions exactly. 

The diet of a sick person differs greatly from that of one 
who is well and often they must be coaxed to eat, especially when 
they are already convalescent. 

Too much stress cannot be laid on the necessity for serving 
the patient's meals daintily. The tray cover must be spotless— 
the china — silver and glass clean and shining. There should not 
be too much food on the tray at a time and the servings must be 
small and dainty. Everything must be well cooked. A flower 
or two on the tray or in a vase or glass add to the attractiveness. 
Be careful not to spill anything when carrying the tray arid 
make it a point to have hot foods truly hot and cold ones — cold. 
Never ask sick people what they would like to eat for they seldom 
know or care and a surprise often stimulates their appetite. 

Invalid diets are classed as follows : 

1. Liquid — including broths, beef extract, milk, egg-nog, 
cocoa, etc. 

2. Soft — ^including soft cooked eggs — ^milk toast — soft cust- 
ard — junket — jellies, etc. 

3. Soft-solid — including creamed toast — eggs — oysters- 
tender chicken — sweetbreads, etc. 

4. Special diet — ordered especially by the physician. 

SEMI-INVAWD COOKING . 
BEEE BROTH 

1 lb. lean beef 1 pt. cold water 

Chop the beef fine and soak it in cold water 1 hr. or longer; 

Rut it in a saucepan, surrounded by lukewarm water and 
cook until it has become a reddish brown — stir constantly. Re- 
move from the fire, pour through a coarse strainer and season. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 127 



1. Milk toast 


S. 


Custards 


2. Soft cooked egg 


6. 


Gelatine 


3. Broiled egg 


7. 


Cooked fruit 


4. Cream sotips 


8. 


Junket 



9. Beef Tea — all beef juice recipe 
See general index for these recipes, 

A GRUEI, IS A THIN CEREAL SOUP 

Gruels must be thoroughly cooked, strained, seasoned and 
served very hot. 

Xhey may be made more nutritious by the addition of a 
beaten egg, or the beaten white alone may be stirred into the 
gruel before serving. 

Fl<OUR GRUEI, 
1 tbsp. wheat or barley . % tsp. salt 

flour J^ c. hot milk or cream 

^ c. water 

Mix flour and salt to a smooth thin paste with 2 tbsp. of the 
cold water, and pour gradually into the remaining water which has 
been heated to the boiling point. Cook directly over the fire 10 
minutes, stirring constantly then in a double boiler 45 minutes. 
Add milk or cream and serve. 

CRACKER GRUEL 

3 tbsp. powdered crackers J4 tsp. salt 

Yz c. boiling water J4 c. hot milk 

Add crackers to the milk and water, cook 10 minutes, add ' 

salt. Strain and serve. The flavor is improved if the crackers 

are browned before rolling. 

EGG-NOG 

1 egg spk. salt 

1 tsp. sugar A grating of nutmeg if 

% c. milk desired 

J^ tsp. vanilla 

Beat the egg until it is light; add the suger and salt, then add 
the milk gradually, stir in the vanilla, mix well— strain into a 
glass and grate the nutmeg on the top. Serve at once. 



128 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER XXIII 

TABI,E SETTING AND SERVING 

Good service is not a fad, and back of every correct arrange- 
ment there is a reason which will be apparent to the guest from 
the ease with which the meal is served. 

Much of the comfort and cheerfulness of the family de- 
pends upon the dining-room and its appointments. The dining- 
room should be in perfect order, well-ventilated, comfortably 
warm in the winter and cool in the summer. 

Every good house-keeper takes pride in her table. 

Flowers in a low basket or vase, a low plant, or a center- 
piece of fruit lends to the attractiveness as well as the cheerful- 
ness of the meal. 

THE TABEE 

Cover the table with a silence cloth. The silence cloth pro- 
tects the table and improves the appearance of the linen. Spread 
the cloth smoothly and evenly, having the center of the cloth in 
the center of the table. Handle the cloth carefully to avoid 
wrinkles. 

LAYING THE TABLE 

Allow 20-30 inches between each cover or place. 

Place a service plate in the center of each cover from % to 
1 inch from the edge of the table. Keep this line for all the rest 
of the service. 

At the right of the plate place the knife with the cutting 
edge toward the plate. 

Place the spoons (bowls up) at the right, in order of use, 
the first used farthest from the plate. 

At the left of the plate place the forks (tines up) in order 
of use, the first to Be used being placed the farthest from the 
plate. 

At the left of the forks lay the napkin, with one open edge 
parallel to the edge of the table, and the other open edge parallel 
with the forks. 

Place the water glass near the tip of the knife, a little to the 
right. 

Place the bread and butter plate at the left side above the 
forks. 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 129 

Place the butter spreads across the butter plate with 
handles toward the right. 

Place salts and peppers so they will balance, and be con- 
venient for use. 

When the host is to carve, place the carving knife and spoon 
at right of his cover', and the fork at the left. 

Arrange the tea or coffee service neatly and conveniently in 
front of the hostess. 

■ Spaces for -other dishes must be arranged so they will balance. 

Place extra silver on the buffet. 

When the dessert silver is placed just preceding the dessert 
course place the silver at the right. 

When the salad is a part of the meat course, a salad fork is 
unnecessary. 

Arrange chairs at sufficient' distance from the table so they 
need not be moved, when people are seated. The front edge of 
the chair just touching the table cloth. 

GENERAI, DIRECTIONS FOR SERVING ' ,, 

■ ' ■■-p.. - ' 

Never announce a meal until everything which is needed or 
may be needed is in readiness. 

To announce' a meal, the waitress steps to the door of the liv- 
ing-room and quietly speaks to the hostess saying: "Dinner is 
served." 

Fill the glasses two-thirds full of water, and set the butter 
plates in place just before announcing the meal. 

• Heat all dishes for food that is to be served hot, and chill, 
dishes for food to be served cold. 

A dish which is to be placed before a guest is set down 
from the right-hand side. 

If a person is to help himself from a dish, it is passed from 
left-hand side. 

Place the serving dish on a folded napkin on the palm of the 
hand, or on a small tray, holding it low enough to be easily 

reached. 

Remove the dishes from the right-hand side. 

In removing a course the larger dishes are taken first, then 



130 HOME ECONOMICS COOK BOOK 

the soiled dishes of each cover, then the unused silver or dishes 
of that course. Never pile the soiled dishes upon each other 6n 
the table. 

Refill the glasses before bringing on the next course. Care 
should be taken in refilling glasses never to touch the upper rim 
of the glass ; also hold the plates and serving dishes so that the 
thumb will not rest on the top surface. 

Use a napkin and 'plate to remove the crumbs from the table. 

TABLB MANJ^ERS * 

1. Personal neatness and appearance is most essential to 
good table manners. Always appear at the table with clean hands 
and face, neatly brushed hair, and a neat, clean dress. 

2. Stand at the back of the chair until the hostess gives the 
signal to be seated. 

3. One is always seated from the left. 

4. The napkin is half unfolded and laid across the lap. If 
it is to be used again, fold it in the original creases and place it 
on the table. If it is not to be used again, place it. loosely be- 
sides the plate. 

5. Sit erect at the table. Do not place the arms or elbows 
on the table, nor play with the silver. 

6. When using the knife and fork at the same time, hold 
the knife in the right hand and the fork in the left hand. The 
knife and fork are held so that the end of the handle, touches 
the palm of the hand and the point of the index finger is on the 
top of the handle. 

7. When not in use they should be laid across the right side 
of the plate. 

8. A spoon should never be left in a cup or glass, but 
should be placed on the saucer. 

9. Take the soup from the side of the spoon, and lift the 
spoon away from you when filling it. 

10. Use the fork for cutting salad. 

11. Do not reach across the table, but ask politely for 
dishes to be passed. 

12. Eat slowly, take small bits, and keep the lips closed 
while eating. - 



FOR ELEMENTARY GRADES 131 



13. Always break bread into small pieces, spread each piece 
separately, just before eating it. ' 

14. ■ Do not cut all of the food on the plate into small pieces. 
Cut off each bite when ready to eat it. 

15. Ask to be excused if it is necessary to leave the table 
before the others. 

•16. Never use a tooth-pick at the table nor in public. 
17. Do not talk about disagreeable things at the table. 
Always do your part toward making the conversation cheerful 

and happy. 



•INDEX 



Page 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Table of 5 



BEVERAGES 

Chocolate 

Cocoa ' . . . .' 

Coffee 

Fruit Punch 

General Rules 

Iced Tea 



.. 10 

.. 10 

. . 10 

., 11 

.. 9 

.. 9 

Lemonade .-.. ..i .■ 11 

Russian Tea , 9 

Tea . .......;.....;..;, 9 

BREAD 

Bread Made with a Sponge ... 79 

Care of Bread After faking . . 81 

Qoffee Cake 80 

Oatmeal 80 

Parker House Rolls 80 

Principal Requirements in Mak- 
ing Bread 78 

Reasons for Kneading 78 

Score for Judging 78 

Steps in Making Dough 11 

Test for Oven . .' 78 

Three Hour Bread 79 

Whole Wheat Bread 80 

Uses of Stale Bread 81 

Toast, Milk 81 

Toast, French 81 

QUICK BREAD 

Acids and Alkalies 72 

Baking Powder 72 

Baking Powder Biscuits 74 

Batters and Doughs 72 

Boston Brown 7S 

Bran Bread 75 

Corn Bread 76 

Corn Muffins ' 74 

Corn Mpal Griddle Cakes 73 

Entire Wheat Muffins 74 

Griddle Cakes 73 

Methods of Raising '. . 72 

Nut Bread 76 

Pin Wheel Biscuits 75 

Plain Muffins 74 

ProDortions for Quick Breads. 72 

Quick CoflFee Cake 16 

.Sour M;iW Griddle Cakes 73 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes TS 

Waffies 73 

CAKES, FROSTINGS, COOKIES 

Cakes : 

Angel Food €4 

Berwick Sponge 85 

Cake Batters ._ 82 

Chicago White ' 84 



Page 

Classification of 82 

Devil's Food '. . ... 86 

. General Directions ........... 83 

Ginger Bread 87 

Gold Cake ................ 86 

Hints on Cake flaking . : . . . 83 

Mother's Cake ■ . ." ; 84 

One Egg 83 

Silver Cake ' 86 

Sour Milk Chocolate Cake . . 86 

Sour Milk Spice Cake 85 

.Soiir Milk Ginger Bread ' 87 

Sponge Cake '. 84 

'Cake Frostings and Fillings: 

Beaten Frosting 87 

Boiled Frosting 87 

Butter Frosting _ 88 ' 

Caramel Frosting 88 

Chocolate Frosting 88 

Cream Filling for Washington 

Pie 85 

Fig Filling 88 

Icing for Cake 89 

Milk Frosting 88 

Cookies : 

Classification , 89 

Crumb , 90 

Drop Ginger 89 

Drop Sugar 91 

Drop Brown 92 

Fried Cakes 92 

Fried Cakes (Sweet Milk) . . 92 

Fried Cakes (Sour Milk) ... 93 

Hermits 90 

Plain Cookies 91 

Potato Fried Cakes 93 

Oatmeal Cookies 89 

Sand Tarts 90 

Sour Milk Cookies 91 

Sour Milk Ginger Cookies . . 91 

Sponge Drops ^ 92 

CANDY 

Butter Scotch 110 

Chocolate Fudge .' 110 

Cooked Fondant Ill 

Glace Nuts Ill 

Panoche Ill 

Peanut Brittle I 110 

Peanut Brittle II 112 

Pop Corn Balls 112 

Puflfed Rice Brittle 112 

Sea Foam 112 

Steamed Figs 112 

Stuffed Dates 112 

To Dip Chocolate Ill 

Uncooked Fondant Ill 



INDEX— Continued 



Page 
CANNING 

Cherries 114 

Pears 114 

Pineapple , 114 

Peaches i, . . . 114 

Tomatoes 114 

Chart fqr Fruits and Vegetables 

llS-116 

Canning without Sugar 115 

Cold Pack Method 114 

General Rule for Fruit 113 

Hot Pack Methqd 113 

Jars and Rubbers. 113 

CEREALS 

Cereals 19 

Gomposition 19 

Fried Mush 19 

General Method of Cooking ... 18 

Left-over Cereals- 18 

Time Table for Cooking ...... 18 

' DESSERTS 

Apple Dumplings 98 

Apple Tapioca 101 

Baked Custard 100 

Blanc Mange 102 

Brown Betty 99 

Caramel Custard 101 

Cooked Custard" or Floating Is- 
land 101 

Creamy Rice Pudding 100 

Cottage Pudding 99 

Dutch Apple Cake 98 

Fruit Pudding 102 

■Graham Pudding 98 

Indian Coirn Pudding 103 

Lemon Snow Balls 97 

Orange Corn Starch 102 

Peach Cobbler 98 

Prune Souffle , . . 100 

Rice Pudding 100 

Short Cake 99 

.Strawberry Short Cake 99 

Steaming 97 

Suet Pudding 97 

Tapioca Cream 102 

DESSERT OR PUDDING SAUCES 

Brown Sugar 105 

Caramel 104 

Crearhy 104 

Foamy 104 

Hard 104 

Lemon 105 

•. DESSERTS WITH GELATINE 

Charlotte Russe 104 

Lemon Jelly 103 

Snow Pudding 103 



Page 

EGGS 

Beating Eggs ; 21 

Beaten Omelet '..'...■. 23 

Creamed Eggs 22 

Creamy Omelet . '. .22 

Diagram of Section of Egg 24 

Hard Cooked ...;.... 22 

Home Preservation 24 

Poached 22 

Omelets 22 

Shirred 22 

Soft Cooked 21 

To Break an Egg ; . . 21 

To Separate an Egg 21 

FATS 

Apple Fritters 65 

Clarify Fats 64 

Corn Fritters 65 

Croquettes 64 

Fat Proof Coating ,64 

General Discussion 64 

Savory Rice Croquettes ' . . 64 

Sweet Rice Croquettes 64 

FISH 

Baked 52 

Classification 52 

Cocktail Sauce S3 

Codfish Balls .,.,.• 53 

Codfish, Creamed 54 

Escalloped Oysters 54 

Fish Turbot .■ 54 

Fried Fish 53 

General Directions 51 

Oyster Cocktail ■ 53 

Planked White Fish ..... 53 

Salmon Loaf . . . . » 54 

Stuffing for Fish '..... . 52 

To Bone a Fish ■.-. 52 



FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 

General Discussion 123 

Preparation of Food for Baby 124 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

Apricot Ice Cream 107 

Chocolate Ice Cream 107 

Condensed Milk Ice Cream ... 107 
General Directions for Freezing 105 

Ice Cream 106 

;Lemon Ice 106 

Milk Sherbert 106 

PineaoDle Sherbert 106 

Strawberry Ice Cream 106 



INDEX— Continued 



Page 

FRUITS 

Apple Sauce 16 

Baked Apple IS 

Fried Apple IS 

Baked Banana 16 

Classification of Fruits 14 

Cranberry Sauce 17 

Effects of Cooking on Fruit . . 14 

Fruit Cocktail 16 

General Rules IS 

Grape Fruit 16 

Oranges 17 

Selection of 14 

Stewed Prunes with Lemon .. IS 
Uses of Fruits 14 

JELLIES, CONSERVES, 
MARMALADES 

Jelly: 

Apple 117 

Cranberry 118 

Currant 118 

Grape 118 

Strawberry 118 

General Rules 117 

Pectin .'.... 117 

Conserves : 

Blue Plum 119 

Rhubarb 119 

Peach Jam 119 

Marmalades: 

Orange 119 

Pineapple — Apricot 120 

Strawberry — Rhubarb 120 

Rhubarb— Pineapple 120 

LEFT-OVERS AND MADE DISHES 

Baked -Green Peppers S9 

Baked Hash 60 

Boston Baked Beans 61 

Cheese Pudding 61 

Casserole of Rice and Meat . . . 60 

Escalloped Meat 60 

French Rarebit 62 

Macaroni and Cheese 63 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce . . 63 

Meat Pie 60 

Meat Souffle 61 

Rice Balls 63 

Spanish Rice 59 

Welsh Rarebit 62 

MEATS 

General Discussion 41 

Tinie Table for Cooking 41 

Beef: 

Broth 126 

Juice 126 



Page 

Broiled Steak 45 

Creamed Dried Beef 45 

Gravy 45 

Meat Loaf 45 

Pot Roast 46 

Roast 44 

Swiss Steak : . 45 

Table of Cuts, etc 44 

Mutton 48 

Pork 49 

Bacon SO 

Ham Kentucky Style SO 

Pan Broiled Chops SO 

Veal: 

Baked Breaded 47 

Birds 47 

Breaded 47 

Dumplings 47 

Sauted Liver 47 

Stew with Dumplings 48 

Table of Cuts, etc 46' 

MILK 

Care of 12 

Composition 11 

Cottage Cheese 13 

Experiments 11 

Junket 13 

PASTRY 

General Directions 94 

General Proportions 94 

Pies; 

Apple 94 

Butter Scotch 95 

Cocoa Marshmallow 96 

Cranberry Tarts 96 

Custard 95 

Fruit, General Directions ... 96 

Meringue 95 

Lemon 95 

Pumpkin or Squash 96 

Plain Paste 94 

Green Tomato Mince Meat 96 

POULTRY 

Chicken en Casserole 57 

Chicken Fricassee S7 

Creamed on Toast 58 

Gravy 58 

Roast 58 

Stuffing 58 

To Clean Poultry 56 

To Clean Giblets 57 

To Cut Poultry 57 

To Select Poultry 56 



INDEX— Continued 



Page 
RElvISHES 

Chili Sauce 121 

French or Mustard Pickles . . . 121 

Pepper Hash or Relish .' 121 

Pickled Cherries 122 

Quick Pickles 121 

Sliced Green Tomato Pickles.. 122 
Spiced Peaches 121 

SAI,ADS 

Cabbage 70 

Cheese Balls 71 

Classification of 66 

Cooked Dressing I 67 

Cooked Dressing II 68 

Cooked Dressing III 68 

Cooked Cream Dressing 68 

French Dressing 68 

Fruit Salad 71 

General Directions 66 

Mayonnaise Dressing 69 

Mock Mayonnaise Dressing . . 69 

Perfection Salad 70 

Potato Salad 71 

. Russian 5alad Dressing 70 

Salad Seasonings (tl 

Salad Greens 67 

Salmon Salad 71 

Sweet Salad Dressing 70 

Thousand Island Dressing 69 

Uncooked Cream Dressing .... 68 

Variation in Salad Dressings.. 67 

Vegetable or Macedonia Salad. 71 

SANDWICHES 

Brown Bread 108 

Cheese Relish 109 

Egg 108 

Ham 108 

Honey and Nut 109 

General Directions 108 

Lettuce 108 

Lettuce and Cream Cheese 109 

Relish 108 

SAUCES 

Brown 32 

Cheese 32 

Drawn Butter 32 

Egg 32 

Hollandaise 33 

Mock Hollandaise 33 



Page 

Maitre D'Hotel Butter 33 

Mock Sauce Tartare 33 

Sauce Tartare 33 

Tomato 34 

Table for Making 31 

White Sauce 31 

SEMI-INVAIvID DIET 

Gruel Cracker 127 

Gruel Flour 127 

SOUPS 

Cream 26 

Celery 27 

Corn 27 

Potato 29 

Pea 27 

Tomato 28 

General Directions 26 

General Proportions 27 

Cheese Sticks 30 

Croutons 30 

TABLE SETTING AND SERVING 
General Directions for Laying 

the Table 128 

General Directions for Serving 129 

Table Manners and Etiquette.. 130 

VEGETABLES 

Asparagus on Toast 38 

Beets 39 

Cauliflower 39 

Classification 35 

Corn on the Cob 39 

Escalloped Egg Plant 40 

Fresh Peas 39 

Creamed and Escalloped Vege- 
tables 36 

General Rules for Cooking ... 35 

Potatoes : 

Baked 37 

Boiled 2,1 

Baked Sweet 38 

Candied Sweet 38 

Cakes 38 

Escallojped 38 

French Fried 38 

Mashed 37 

Riced 37 

Stuffed 37 

Time Table for Cookmg 36 

Tomatoes 40 



