m 



— MM 




[3F 






5^ 




^J 




mm 





W\ 



^1 



H 



^ 




[g 


















ill 







»] 



^1 







MM 



Delta (lamma 





•?-• 









P' 



^iU^ 






mm 






^ 







te 







3 



^^S 

s&^ 





mm 


















^ 










S 








^ 




b^ 



S3S 









•BSJ. 



Mm 



Ml 




LH f ^ T K 














m 








w 







BMiaiHiiCifl g 
























^ 








r^J^fiE 






^P IT? 



fPj5f^ 






jm 



^O^ 
^^^ 






'cm.. \ 



iif 



[ ir cit g I 

li 



^ mi r nn 



SI 



V^mI 



l;ii« I 



^ 



€ 



^v. 




rF 




^fHiFi^f 



i 



'.nrnrra' H 



irmrro 



Pi 




Class 



n , -D 3a. 

DOOK ■-„-7i .- : < o 



■\^n: 



Gopiglit^? 



GOF»^IGHT DEPOSnx 



r l_^{LA.Kj<J(t-'<^^.Jt-— 



DELTA GAMMA 
COOK BOOK 




SECOND EDITION 



Compiled for the benefit of the 

NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP 
FUND 



Published By 

LAMBDA NU CHAPTER 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA 
1922 






Copyright, 1922, for 
DELTA GAMMA SORORITY, 

By Mrs. F. W. Burwell, 

326 West Minnehaha Blvd., 

Minneapolis, Minnesota 

from whom copies may be obtained 



Sliir Qlollrgiatr Prraa 

GEORGE BANTA PUBLISHING COMPANY 

MENASHA, WIS. 



m 



-^j 1922 



©C1A690282 



PREFACE 

In compiling a book of this type where recipes have been sent in 
from many quarters, it has, of course, been necessary to cull out 
duplicates and to re-word in some cases so as to gain some degree of 
uniformity. We have tried to keep at least one recipe from each 
Delta Gamma who responded to the appeal, but in some cases 
where only one recipe was sent, it has not always been possible. 
In other cases recipes came too late to be inserted. There were 
also a few exact duplicates of copyrighted recipes, which we were 
obliged to leave out. Where there was a shortage of recipes the 
committee has filled in to the best of its ability. This will account 
for the large number of Lambda recipes throughout the book. 

It was intended that each recipe should bear the signature and 
the name of the chapter of the one who sent it, but some were sent 
in unsigned. 

Thanks are extended to all who lent a hand in the preparation of 
this book which we hope may prove a valuable aid to all Delta 
Gamma housekeepers and their friends. 

Committee. 



To the 

Delta Gamma Brides of 1922 

this hook is dedicated. 



CONTENTS 

Soups 7 

Fish and Oysters 15 

Meats 23 

Vegetables 48 

Salads 62 

Luncheon Dishes 87 

Sandwiches 103 

Eggs, Cereals, and Breakfast Dishes 110 

Breads 116 

Pies and Pastry 131 

Cakes 142 

Cookies 162 

Kisses, Macaroons, and Marguerites 169 

Coffee Cake and Ginger Breads 171 

Doughnuts 175 

Cake Frostings 177 

Desserts 182 

Ices and Ice Creams 223 

Beverages 230 

Candies and Nuts 233 

Preserves 243 

Conserves and Marmalades 245 

Catsup and Pickles 253 

Weights and Measures 263 



SOUPS 

Cream of Almond Soup 

% cup almonds 3 stalks celery 

6 bitter almonds 3 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons cold water 3 tablespoons flour 

}4 teaspoon salt 2 cups scalded milk 

3 cups white stock 1 cup cream 

1 small onion salt and pepper 

Blanch, chop, and pound almonds. Add gradually water and 
salt; then add stock, sUced onion, and celery; let simmer one hour 
and rub through a sieve. Melt butter, add flour and pour the hot 
liquor on gradually; then add milk, cream, salt, pepper, to taste. 
This is nice to serve with bread cut in the shape of ahnonds, buttered 
and toasted. 

AHce B. Fraser (Lambda Nu). 

Clam Bouillon 

One quart clams, two small onions, one-half pint water. Boil 
twenty minutes. Strain through cheese cloth and add one tablespoon 
flour and one tablespoon butter. In separate boiler, heat one-half pint 
cream and one-half pint milk. 

Put this with above. Serve with one teaspoon cream in each cup. 
Serve hot. 

Esther C. Dunn (Chi). 

Royal Bouillon 

2 pounds good lean beef 

1 chicken (about 4 pounds) 
1 pound ham or 3 or 4 slices of bacon 
Make a "bouquet" of 
1 bay leaf 

1 teaspoon celery seed 
}/2 teaspoon sweet marjoram 
cloves and other herbs according to taste 



8 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Add to stock. Simmer four or five hours. After the stock is 
thoroughly cold, clarify with beaten white of one egg. Place egg in 
cold bouillon and bring to a boil. Strain, serve with whipped cream 
over which paprika has been sprinkled, or with a slice of lemon in 
each cup. (The chicken and beef are better boiled together, but 
this impairs the flavor of the chicken, which otherwise can be used 
for salad or croquettes, therefore they may be boiled separately.) 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu) . 

Clam Chowder 

1 dozen clams soup greens 

1 pint tomatoes thyme 

4 carrots pepper and salt 

4 potatoes 
Heat one quart water. When steaming add lo it the hquor of 
the clams. Let boil and skim. Add strained tomatoes and all 
vegetables chopped. Season with thyme, pepper and salt. 

Let the above boil slowly about two hours, then add chopped 
clams and continue boiling for at least one hour. This makes about 
two quarts and the flavor improves on reheating the chowder. 

Jane Cheney Landmesser 
(Mrs. C. F. L) (Chi). 

Clam Chowder 

2 shces bacon 1 small onion 

3 or 4 medium sized potatoes small piece butter 
2 dozen clams 4 soda crackers 

1 quart hot milk 
Cut bacon in small pieces, put in kettle and fry for a few minutes. 
Add onion sliced fine and fry for five minutes together. 

Cut potatoes very small, add to bacon and onions, add enough 

water to cover them and cook until potatoes are soft. Flavor to taste. 

Chop the clams fine. Five minutes before serving, add the 

clams and the juice and then the quart of hot milk and butter, also 

soda crackers broken in small bits. Serve at once. 

Doroth}'- Petersen (Gamma). 



SOUPS 



Cauliflower Puree 

1 cauliflower 3^ bay leaf 

3 cups boiling water }4= cup flour 

}/i cup butter 1 pint milk 

1 slice onion salt and pepper 
1 stalk celery, cut in inch pieces 

Soak cauliflower, head down, in cold salted water fifteen minutes. 
Cook twenty minutes, or until tender. Rub through a sieve. Cook 
onion, celery and bay leaf in butter five minutes. Remove bay leaf, 
then add flour; cook two minutes, add stock and hot milk. Season 
with salt and pepper, strain and serve. 

Bertha Betts (Chi). 



Celery Soup 

Wash and cut up two medium sized stalks of celery, using the 
leaves. Put into a small kettle and add enough water to barely 
cover. Cook slowly until the celery is thoroughly done. (Celery 
seed may be added to give a stronger celery flavor if desired.) Drain 
off the water and add to it one cup of cream and salt to taste. Blend a 
tablespoon of flour with the same amount of butter and add to the 
soup, stirring constantly until it comes to a boil. Serve at once. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 



Chicken and Mushroom Soup 

1 quart of chicken stock, seasoned with onion and celery 

1 quart of white cream sauce 

1 can chopped mushrooms (not too fine) 

pepper and salt to taste 

When serving add one spoonful of stiffly whipped cream to each 
serving, with chopped parsley, sprinkled on whipped cream. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 



10 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Clear Soup or Cold Consomme 

3 pounds lean veal 2 onions 

3 pounds lean beef 2 stalks celery 

1 slice ham or hani bone 
Mince the ham or crack the ham bone. Put meats and seasoning 
over the fire in six quarts cold water. Let this come slowly, to the 
boiling point and then simmer for six or seven hours. Strain through 
a double cloth and set in a cold place. Remove fat carefully. Put 
stock back on fire with the unbeaten white and the shell of an egg. 
Let it heat quicldy and boil fast for five minutes. Strain again. 
Add salt and pepper to taste just before serving. Many people 
like the addition of one glass of sherry. 

Leulah Judson Hawley (Lambda) . 

Consomme 

Cut the meat from the bones of one shin of beef and one knuckle 
of veal. Put a kettle over a hot fire and sprinkle over the bottom 
of it one heaping tablespoon of sugar. Let it brown and allow it to 
smoke for a minute, then add quickly one-fourth cup of chopped 
onions and the same quantity of cold water and cook for five minutes. 
Place the bones in the kettle and then the meat — cover with five 
quarts of cold water, bring to a boil, skim carefully and place over a 
moderate fire to simmer four hours. When ready to serve, a slice of 
lemon placed in each cup will add to the flavor of the consomme. 

Fanny Cole Speh (Kappa). 

Consomme 

1 knuckle of beef 1 ba}^ leaf 

1 knuckle of veal 2 whole cloves 

twice as many cups of water as 2 carrots 

number to be served 1 turnip, celery 

1 onion 
Cook down half, strain through a cloth, let harden to jelly. Thin 
and season when ready to serve. A slice of lemon in the cup adds 
to the flavor. 

Blanche Garten (Kappa). 



SOUPS 11 

Corn Soup (Small Recipe — About Three Dishes) 

Cook one-half can of cornlet (or corn) with one cup cold water for 
fifteen minutes. Melt heaping tablespoon butter in another pan 
and brown one teaspoon chopped onion in it. Add two tablespoons 
flour to this, season with one teaspoon salt and pinch of pepper. 
Add one pint milk, gradually. When this boils add cornlet. This can 
all be strained or part of kernels of corn left in. 

Florence Schuyler Thorpe (Lambda). 

Lentil Soup 

Cook slowly one cup lentils and one quart boiling water until 
soft, and water is reduced about one-half. Rub through a strainer. 
Add one pint of milk and thicken with a rounded tablespoon of 
flour cooked in a rounded tablespoon of butter. Pepper and salt to 
taste. 

Bertha Wilson Carter (Rho). 
I 

Macaroni Soup 

Boil a knuckle of veal with two tablespoons of salt and sweet 
marjoram in enough water to cover the meat well. Add two small 
red, or twelve black peppers tied in thin mushn, three blades of mace, 
two large carrots, one head of celery, three onions. Boil down one- 
half. Strain and break into it one-fourth pound of macaroni; when 
the macaroni is tender add to it one-half pint of cream, thicken 
with two tablespoons of flour and butter size of an egg. Stir this 
into the soup just before serving. 

, Gertrude Gifford (Sigma). 

Minna Soup 

1 cup cooked lima beans 1 teaspoon butter 

2 cups milk salt 

1 onion pepper 

2 cups white stock chopped parsley 
1 teaspoon flour 

Put the beans in the double boiler with milk. Brown the onion 
sliced with butter and cook to delicate brown. Add the white stock. 



12 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

When thoroughly heated, press the beans through a sieve and add to 
stock with onion also strained. Rub the flour and butter until smooth 
and add sufficient soup to this to make it creamy, before adding to 
the soup. Return the soup to the double boiler and cook until it 
thickens to a puree. Season and serve. 

EHzabeth Mogg (Rho Sigma). 

Mushroom Soup 

To two quarts of good white stock, add one can of button mush- 
rooms (cut in two or three pieces). Make a roux of two heaping 
tablespoons flour and one tablespoon butter. Thicken stock with 
this. Add pepper and salt to taste. Serve in bouillon cups with one 
slice lemon in each cup. Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Noodles 
1 egg 

1 tablespoon of sweet milk 
pinch of salt 

all the flour that can be worked into it, about two cups 
Roll out very thin, let dry two hours. Flour lightly and roll. Cut 
in thin strips. Have chicken liquor ready. Cook fifteen minutes 

Blanche Garten (Kappa). 

Oyster Soup 

Strain hquor from one pint of oysters. Heat in separate dish. 
Heat quart of milk, add piece of butter and seasoning. Then add 
oysters to milk. Serve. Unsigned. 

Green Split Pea Soup 

J^ pint green spUt peas, washed in cold water, drained at once 
Y2 carrot, sliced 
Y2 onion 

1 ounce salt pork or bacon cut into dice 
Yi teaspoon celery salt 
Put all together over hot fire and bring to a boil. Then cook 
slowly, adding water from time to tune, if necessary until dissolved. 
Season with salt and pepper. Strain and serve. 

Constance Gihnan Ames (Lambda). 



SOUPS 13 

Tomato Bisque 

Cook one quart of tomatoes until soft, with a pinch of soda; 
strain so that no seeds remain; set on stove, seasoning with salt, 
pepper, small piece of butter, and sugar; just before removing 
from stove, add one pint of sweet cream; serve immediately. 

Helen LesHe (Omega). 

Cream of Tomato or Mock Bisque Soup 

1 cup tomato juice 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons flour 

yi teaspoon salt 
To prepare juice, boil one cup tomatoes with one bay leaf, one 
slice onion, one-half teaspoon celery salt or seed, one saltspoon 
pepper, one saltspoon soda, strain and use as foundation for soup. 

Melt butter, add flour and seasoning, then milk slowly, stirring 
constantly. Cook until thick. Combine with hot tomato juice by 
pouring the latter slowly into the sauce, while hot, stirring con- 
stantly. Serve immediately without further cooking. 

Mary Gage Hall (Sigma) . 

Canned Tomato Soup 

1 peck of ripe tomatoes, skinned 

1 onion 

1 red pepper 

1 green pepper 
Cook until tender; strain though colander, then sieve. Add four 
tablespoons of salt and tbree-fourths cup of sugar, cook well, put in 
jars. When using, to one pint of soup, add piece of butter, small 
tablespoon of flour, cook a little while slowly, then add pinch of soda 
and one quart of hot milk. 

Henrietta Stratton Jaquette (Psi Phi). 

Canned Tomato Soup 

14 quarts ripe tomatoes shced and cut 
14 stalks of celery 
14 bay leaves 
21 cloves 
7 medium sized onions sliced 



14 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Boil all these together and strain. 
Then add 

14 tablespoons butter, blended with 
14 tablespoons flour 

8 teaspoons of salt 
16 teaspoons of sugar 

4 salt spoons of paprika 

Cook until as thick as desired and can in sterilized fruit cans. 
Will make fifteen pints. When used add a pinch of soda and a pint 
or more of milk to each pint of the canned soup. 

Eva Hooper (Alpha Zeta). 

Clear Tomato Soup 

2 cups tomato juice, strained 6 cloves 

1 cup soup stock 2 bay leaves 

]/2 tablespoon sugar several pepper corns 

1 tablespoon corn starch 

Simmer for about five minutes all ingredients, except the corn 
starch. Strain and return to the stove, adding the corn starch 
dissolved in a little water, and salt to taste. When serving add a 
Httle whipped cream to the top of each cup of soup and sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley on cream. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Vegetable Soup 

For a vegetable soup use Blanche Garten's consomme recipe and 
add three medium sized potatoes. Omit bay leaf and cloves and 
chop all vegetables. Do not strain. 



FISH AND OYSTERS 

Cod Fish Balls 

2 cups raw salt fish 1 egg, well beaten 

2 pints potatoes 3^ saltspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons butter more salt if needed 

Wash the fish, pick in pieces and free from, bones. Pare potatoes 
and cut in quarters. Put potatoes and fish into boiling water, and 
boil until potatoes are soft. Be careful not to let them boil long 
enough to become soggy. Drain off all the water. Mash and beat 
fish and potatoes, while piping hot, until very light, add the butter 
and pepper. When slightly cool add the egg, shape into balls, sHp 
into a basket and fry in smoking hot lard. 

Mabel M. Bryan (Sigma). 

Cod Fish Balls 

1 cup picked cod fish 

2 heaping cups raw potatoes 

2 hard boiled eggs, chopped fine 

1 raw egg, well beaten 

Boil potatoes and cod fish until done, drain carefully, mash and 
beat until creamy, add boiled chopped eggs, beaten egg, dash of 
pepper, beat all together, roll in flour and fry in hot lard or "Crisco." 

Dorothy Dyrenforth (Sigma). 

Deviled Clams 

20 large clams 2 tablespoons butter * 

2 onions 2 tomatoes 
1 egg 

Chop all ingredients. Put butter in frying pan, add chopped onion 
and cook ten minutes. Put in clams and tomatoes, cook about 
five minutes, then add egg well beaten, and as soon as the mixture 
thickens, remove from the fire. Season with salt and pepper. Put 
mixture into ramekins, cover with buttered crumbs and brown in the 
oven before serving. Bertha Betts (Chi). 

15 



16 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Crab Flake Cocktails 
One-fourth cup crab meat in flakes for each cocktail. Season with 
one tablespoon each of sherry wine and lemon juice, three or four 
drops of tobasco sauce, one teaspoon of finely chopped celery, and salt 
to taste. Chill thoroughly, serve in cocktail glasses or green pepper 
cases on beds of crushed ice. Bertha Betts (Chi). 

Deviled Crabs 

1 cup crab meat, picked from shells of well boiled crabs 

2 tablespoons fine bread or cracker crumbs 
yolks 2 hard boiled eggs, chopped 

juice of a lemon 

Y2 teaspoon mustard 

a little cayenne pepper and salt 

1 cup drawn butter 
Mix one spoon crumbs with chopped crab meat, yolks, seasoning 
and butter. Fill scallop shells with mixture, sift crumbs over top, 
heat to light brown in quick oven. Helen Ryals (Phi). 

Deviled Crabs 

1 can crab meat 1 egg, not beaten 

Y2 teaspoon mustard 2 tablespoons olive oil 

1 saltspoon salt Y2 cup cream or milk 

Flake crab meat shghtly , and add dry and then hquid ingredients . 
Put bread crumbs and bits of butter on top of dish. Bake in large 
dish one-half hour or in shells or ramekins fifteen minutes. 

Nell B. Cochran (Sigma). 

* Finnan Haddie 

Break one and one-half pounds of the fish in large pieces and 
braise. If very salty soak in cold water for two hours. After braising 
break into small pieces. Make a cream sauce and add the following: 
yolk of 1 egg a little grated cheese 

1 hard boiled egg a little paprika 

chopped parsley 
Cover the top with bread crumbs and cheese. Bake. 

Ruth H. Gates (Sigma). 



FISH AND OYSTERS 17 

Fish Mousse 

Five pounds of fresh halibut, skinned and boned. The skin is easi- 
ly removed by pouring boiling water over the fish. Put in a chopping 
bowl — and with a potato masher pound to a pulp, adding salt to 
taste. Then add two unbeaten eggs, one at a time, and pound 
them into the pulp. To this mixture add one quart of whipping 
cream, slowly, one-fourth of a cup at a time, working it thoroughly 
into the fish with the masher. When thoroughly worked together 
put into a buttered mould and steam one hour and a half. A good 
sized angel food pan with a tin one-pound coffee can over the cone 
in the center makes a good mould, or any good sized pan with a coffee 
can in the center is all right. Make a white sauce and into it put two 
cans of broken up shrimp. When the mousse is ready to serve put 
on a chop platter and serve the shrimp sauce in the center of the 
mould of fish. Cut in slices and serve with the hot sauce. Lobster 
may be used in place of shrimp. This makes an excellent luncheon or 
supper dish and will serve twelve people easily. It is very nice the 
second day when it can be steamed again to re-heat it. 

Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda). 

Fish and Spinach 

Prepare spinach as usual. Cream any fish (codfish or halibut is 
good). Butter ramekins and place therein, first a layer of spinach, 
then a layer of creamed fish (four layers). Over top lay grated 
cheese. Bake until brown. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Halibut Timbales 

1 pound fresh hahbut put through the meat grinder 

salt, pepper, paprika 

^ cup warm milk thickened with flour 

^ cup whipped cream 

Mix and put in buttered timbal shells. Stand the timbal shells 
in a pan of boiling water in the oven and cook for about half an hour. 
Serve with mushroom or pea sauce. 

Katherine Esterly (Beta Sigma). 



18 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Lobster Cutlets 
1 can lobster 
1 pint thick cream sauce 
Mix together, season with salt and pepper. When cold form into 
small cutlets, dip in bread crumbs and egg and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with sliced cucumbers. Ina Firkins (Lamljda Nu) . 

Oyster Cocktail 
1 pint oysters 5 teaspoons lemon juice 

3 teaspoons horse radish Yi teaspoon tobasco sauce 

3 teaspoons vinegar salt to taste 

Mix and serve' in tall thin glasses. This recipe will serve six peo- 
ple. Margaret Van Bergen (Lambda). 

Oyster Croquettes 
One pint oj^sters boiled in liquor until edges curl; then drain and 
when cold chop fine. Use equal parts of oyster and mashed potato. 
For every two cups of mixture add: 

Yi cup bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

34 cup cream butter size of an egg 

Beat until well mixed and mould into balls. Dip in egg and 
bread ci-umbs. Fry in deep fat in basket. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Osyter Roast 
Put one quart oysters in pan with their own liquor. Let boil 
three or four minutes. Season with salt, pepper and heaping spoon 
of butter. Serve on buttered toast. Gayle Marshall (Theta). 

Oyster Sausage 

1 pint oysters, chopped fine 
34 pound veal, chopped fine 
3^8 pound suet, chopped fine 

2 beaten eggs 

Y2 cup cracker or bread crumbs 
Dry oysters. Mix ingredients, season with salt and pepper, shape 
into flat cakes and fry. 

Gae Myers Seeley (Theta). 



FISH AND OYSTERS 19 

Scalloped Oysters 

Take a quart of oj^sters. Place alternately on an old platter a 
layer of bread crumbs with a layer of oysters. Sprinkle each layer 
with butter and seasoning. Cook in a slow oven. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda). 

Scalloped Oysters 

Take an earthen dish, put into it a layer of oysters, salt and pepper 
and bits of butter, then a layer of cracker and bread crumbs mixed, 
then layer of oysters, etc., until dish is full. Use bread crumbs for 
top. Mix one egg, well beaten, with one pint rich milk or cream, the 
latter is better. Pour this over the oysters and crumbs, lifting 
lightly in places so that the milk mixes through. Cover the dish and 
bake fifty-five minutes. When almost done, remove cover so the 
top will brown. 

Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda). 

Shredded Wheat Oyster, Meat or Vegetable Patties 

Cut oblong cavity in top of biscuit, remove top carefulty and all 
inside shreds, forming a shell. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, put 
small pieces of butter in bottom, and fill the shell with drained, 
picked, and washed oysters. Season with additional salt and pepper. 
Replace top of biscuit over oysters, then bits of butter on top. Place 
in a covered pan and bake in a moderate oven. Pour oyster liquor 
or cream sauce over it. Shell fish, vegetables, or meats may also be 
used. 

Baked Oysters 

Butter a shallow platter and cover with a layer of fresh bread 
crumbs which have been mixed with }/2 teaspoon baking powder, add 
salt and pepper to taste. On the layer of bread crumbs put a layer 
of select oysters, season and cover with another layer of bread 
crumbs. 

Melt a scant half pound of butter and pour the melted butter 
over the top of the bread crumbs. Put in the oven and bake until 
bread crumbs are crisp and brown. This recipe takes one quart of 
oj^sters, Unsigned. 



20 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Creamed Salmon 
3 tablespoons butter Y2 tablespoon flour 

Add slowly one-fourth cup milk and stir. Mix one can salmon 
and one-half can peas, pour on the butter, flour and milk, stir together 
well. Cook slowly until it is heated through. Remove from stove, 
add whole egg (beaten) and cook for a few minutes. 

Persis Dewey (Iota). 

Salmon Loaf 

1 can salmon, remove bones and skin 
salt to taste 

Y2 cup ground crackers 

2 eggs (yolks) 
cream to moisten 

1 teaspoon melted butter 
Mold on buttered pie tin. Bake twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Anne Wright (Kappa). 

Salmon Loaf 

1 can salmon, picked fine 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon butter Yi cup cracker crumbs 

Put in loaf or in baking powder can and steam one-half hour. 

Edna Kendall Crawford (Sigma). 

Steamed Salmon Loaf 

To a pound can of salmon add 2 tablespoons butter 
Y2 cup fine bread crumbs 
1 egg beaten 
pinch salt 
Mix well, put in greased pan and steam twenty-five minutes. 
Cover well with waxed paper. 

Anne Puffer Taylor (Lambda Nu). 

Scalloped Salmon 

Make a dressing of one-half pint milk, one tablespoon flour, 
wet in a little cold milk and then added to the half pint. Heat this 
and then add small piece of butter and a Httle salt; let cook, and 



FISH AND OYSTERS 21 

and when cool, add one beaten egg. Put dressing in bottom of dish, 
then put in one pound can of sahnon, sprinkle over a bit of cayenne, 
then pour over the rest of the dressing and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs. Bake about one-half hour. Lois Brown (Rho). 

Salmon Timbales 

% 

1 can salmon 1 pint cream 

Y2 teaspoon salt and pepper chopped almonds 

whites of 3 eggs 
Rub salmon until smooth and fine, then add seasoning and eggs 
beaten, cream; put in buttered timbale moulds, cook twenty minutes. 
Serve with Hollandaise sauce. Helen A. Sawyer (Kappa). 

Creamed Sardines 

Drain from oil one good sized box of sardines, remove bones from 
fish, then wash. Melt one-fourth cup butter, add one-fourth cup stale 
bread crumbs and one cup cream or milk. When thoroughly heated, 
add two hard boiled eggs, finely chopped, the sardines, salt and 
pepper and paprika to taste. Serve on toast. 

Edna L. Keyes (Gamma). 

Sardine Loaf 

14 hard boiled eggs 1 can of sardines 

Chop eggs while warm and add the minced sardines. Season 
with salt and pepper and add the oil from the sardines. Pack in 
dish and serve cold with salad dressing on lettuce. 

Helen Loman (Xi). 

Creamed Shrimp 

2 cans shrimp or 1 pint fresh shrimp 

V/^ cups cream 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce 

1 tablespoon butter juice one lemon 

1 tablespoon flour salt 

1 cup boiled rice cayenne 
1 tablespoon catsup 
Serve on toast. Margaret Lovejoy (Beta). 



22 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Tuna Fish Chowder or "Goulash" 

1 ('U[i flaked tuna fish 

1 cup chopped raw potato 

1 cup chopped raw carrot 

chopped cabbasiic or onion or celery as desired 

seasoning 

Boil all together until they are tender, then thin with cream or 
milk. If the latter is used, diced bacon or salt pork may be fried and 
combined with the vegetables before boihng. Other fish or chopped 
ham may be substituted for the Tima and the consistency of the 
chowder may be as a soup or as a "goulash." 

Harriet Moore Pier (Lambda). 

Fish Turbot 

Take a white fish which has been steamed until tender, or a can of 
salmon. Remove bones; sprinkle with pepper and salt. Heat one 
pint of milk and thicken with one-foiu'th poimd of flour. When cool 
add two eggs, one-fourth pound of butter and season with a little 
onion and parsley. Add the fish and put the whole into a baking 
dish, cover with bread crumbs and bake one-half hour. This is 
very nice baked in individual dishes or in shells. 

Alice Bean Fraser (Lambda), 

Baked White Fish (or Trout) 

Split hsh and remove back bone with sharp knife. Lay fish 
flat in baking dish, sjirinkle with salt and pepper, spread lightly 
with one-half cupful of soft bread crumbs moistened in milk, over 
this spread butter rather generously. Bake in quick oven about 
twenty-five minutes. Servo with Hollandaise sauce. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Xu). 



MEATS 

Beef 
Beef Loaf 

2 pounds chopped beef 

2 pounds pork chops 1 egg 

1 cup milk butter size of an egg 

1 cup bread crumbs juice of 1 lemon 

1 teaspoon scraped onion 

salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste 
Bake an hour and serve hot in its own gravy. 

Lena Mott (Xi). 

Beef Loaf 

3 pounds round steak 1 , 
Yi pound pickle pork J 

Yi cup bread crumbs 
Y2 cup milk 

2 eggs 

salt and pepper 
Set in pan of hot water in oven for three hours. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda). 

Hamburg Loaf 

2 pounds Hamburg steak 
1 cup cracker crumbs 

1 egg 

2 teaspoons powdered sage leaves 
salt and pepper to taste 

Add enough water to make loaf firm. Put into baldng dish, 
surround with enough water to prevent the meat from sticking 
and bake about three-fourths of an hour. Serve with baked potatoes 
and thick gravy, made after the meat is taken from the baking dish. 

PauUne Brewster Wells (Rho Sigma) . 

23 



24 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Filipino Beef 

Put through a meat grinder 

13^2 pounds round steak add salt and pepper 

Yi pound lean pork 1 cup soft sifted bread crumbs 

1 onion 1 egg 

1 green pepper without seeds 
Mix well and shape into a roll. Put into agate pan, add one 
quart strained tomatoes, and put two slices of bacon over meat. 
Cook about fifty minutes, basting frequently. Cook parboiled 
potatoes with meat and serve with brown tomato sauce. 

Unsigned. 

Beef Steak Dressing 

3/^ saltspoon pepper ^ cup butter 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon parsle}^, cut fine 
Stir all together and spread on broiled steak just before serving. 
Harriet Van Bergen Deering (Lambda). 

Mock Birds 

V/i pounds round steak 
3^ pound sliced bacon 
Cut steak into strips four inches long. Place a bit of bacon 
inside of each piece of steak, roll and fasten with toothpicks. Brown 
a few minutes in a kettle then add hot water enough to barely 
cover. Salt and pepper to taste and let simmer until tender (about 
one hour). Serve with gravy made from the meat juices. 

Mar}^ Gage Hall (Sigma). 

Round Steak and Bacon 

Grind three pounds of round steak, and salt to taste. Take a 
good half pound of sliced bacon and cut in half inch pieces, cook 
in a frying pan, stirring to keep from getting too well done. When 
the bacon is nearly done put the round steak into the frying pan 
and partially cook. Keep stirring until the red of the steak is gone. 
Have ready a package of cooked spaghetti and one can of tomatoes 



MEATS 25 

which have been cooked down fairly thick and seasoned with salt, 
pepper, butter and sugar. To the meat mixture add the cooked 
spaghetti and tomatoes and put into a good sized casserole and bake 
until steak is done. 

By taking from the oven when hot and putting in a market 
basket thickly lined with newspaper and covered with several 
layers of papers this dish will keep hot for several hours and makes a 
very hearty supper dish for picnics. 

Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda). 

Steak en Casserole 

One and one-half pounds steak cut into pieces for serving. Add 
salt, pepper, and roll it in flour. Lay the pieces in an earthen baking 
dish. Sprinkle lightly with flour between the layers. Add two large 
onions, peeled and sliced, distributing it evenly over the layers. 
Cover with cold water and bake two hours, keeping the dish covered 
tightly. This is a delicious dish, the meat is tender, well flavored, 
and the gravy of the right consistency to serve at once. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Rolled Flank Steak 

Score the steak, dust with pepper and salt, cover with one-half 
cup bread crumbs, a little minced parsley and chopped onion, then roll 
the steak, like a jelly roll, tie and bake an hour, or until tender in a 
moderate oven. Water or soup stock should be put in the pan basting 
with it occasionally. 

Marguerite Stanley Corl (Xi). 

Russian Steak 

2)4, pounds round steak, cut IJ^ inches thick 
1 large onion 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint can tomatoes 1 tablespoon lard 

1 can mushrooms salt and pepper 

flour 
Pound as much flour as possible into the steak. Sear over in 
hot lard and butter. Place in roaster and spread over with onion, 
previously sliced into the fat and browned. Heat the tomatoes in 



26 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

the same frying pan, stirring in one tablespoon flour. Pour over the 
steak and onions. Finally, heat the mushrooms and place over the 
top. Cover and roast one and one-half hours. 

Leona Bean (Zeta) . 

Spanish Steak 

Take a flank steak, scored, pound flour into it. Sear it on both 
sides in heavy frying pan. Place in roaster. Make a water gravy 
in pan and pour over steak. Slice two large onions over steak. 
Cover with chili sauce. Bake in covered roaster for one hour in slow 
oven. 

Gail H. Luther (Lambda Nu). 

Swiss Steak 

Three-quarters inch thick round steak. Pound in as much flour 
as possible. Sear meat on both sides in fat. Cover meat with water. 
Salt to taste and stew slowly until done. 

Luella Cordier (Theta). 

Tamale Pie 
2 cups corn meal 
6 cups water 
1 tablespoon fat 

1 onion 

2 cups tomatoes 

1 pound hamburger steak 
Make a mush by stirring the corn meal and one and one-half 
teaspoons salt into the boihng water. Cook forty-five minutes. 
Brown onions in fat, add hamburger and stir until red color disap- 
pears. Add salt, pepper and tomato. A sweet pepper is an addition. 
Grease baking dish and put in layer of corn meal mush, add seasoned 
meat, and cover with mush. Bake one-half hour. Serves six. 

Unsigned. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Select very firm medium sized cabbage. Remove outer leaves. 
From top cut a lid about four inches in diameter. Remove inside of 



MEATS 27 

cabbage, leaving rim about one and one-half inches thick. Rub 
inside with salt and pepper. 

To one and one-half pounds Hamburger steak, add 

Y2 pound chopped pork 

XYi cups cream sauce 

1 egg 

Yi cup bread crumbs 

1 onion chopped and fried in butter 

1 celery stalk, chopped (or 1 teaspoon celery seed) 

Y2 teaspoon sweet marjoram 

Yi baj^ leaf 

salt and pepper 
Mix all together and fill cabbage. Replace the lid. Tie in clean 
cloth. Boil in mutton broth or any meat stock for two hours. If 
you have no stock, add vegetables, seasoning and meat scraps to 
water and boil cabbage in this. Serve with spoonful of melted 
butter over every serving. Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Chicken 

Chicken Croquettes 
Rub together two tablespoons butter and two tablespoons flour. 
Melt in double boiler and add one cup milk or cream, a little chopped 
parsley, salt, pepper and red pepper to taste, grated rind of one 
lemon, a little grated onion and dash of nutmeg. Add one pint 
minced chicken. Set on ice to cool. Mould and set on ice again. 
Roll in egg and cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

Adelaide Thompson Blodgett (Lambda). 

Chicken and Mushroom Croquettes 

\Y cups cold cooked chicken few drops onion juice 
% cups chopped mushrooms 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

Yi teaspoon salt parsle}^ 

Y teaspoon celery salt 1 cup thick white sauce 

1 teaspoon lemon juice few grains cayenne 

Mix ingredients in order given, chill, shape, dip in beaten egg, then 
in crumbs, and fry in deep fat until golden brown. Drain on soft 
paper. Arrange peas around and serve. 

For the white sauce, use three tablespoons flour to one cup milk. 

Bertha Betts (Chi). 



28 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Chicken Gumbo 

1 large fat chicken, cut in pieces 1 large onion 

1 can of okra Y2 clove of garUc or 
Yi can tomatoes Y^ green pepper mixed 

2 tablespoons lard a little parsley and thyme 
2 tablespoons flour 2 bay leaves 

Fry the chicken in the lard, then add flour, onion, garhc and other 
ingredients, let stew for fifteen minutes. Add two quarts of hot 
water and simmer two or three hours until chicken is tender. Add salt 
to taste. Veal, cut in small pieces, may be added in place of chicken. 
Serve with boiled rice. 

Mary Lobb (Omega). 

Jugged Chicken 

Cut chicken up at joints. To each pound of meat take two 
heaping teaspoons flour, one scant teaspoon salt and one-fourth 
teaspoon pepper. Roll chicken in this and pack compact^ in stone 
jar. Cover with boiling water and bake three hours in slow oven. 

Ethel Elhott Swan (Tau). 

Chicken or Salmon Mousse 

Put raw breast of chicken or salmon meat into chopping bowl. 
Pound fine with wooden potato masher. Add four unbeaten eggs, one 
at a time and pound into the meat ; season with salt. 

Add one pint double cream, a little at a time, whipping thor- 
oughly after each addition of the cream. Pour into well greased 
uncovered mould and set in pan of boiling water. Cook one hour. 

Maud Stedman Curtis (Omega). 

Sauce for Chicken or Salmon Mousse 

Cook remnants in a little water to a very thick stock. Blend in 
butter and flour to a gra\y. Add two lightly beaten egg yolks and 
put in a double boiler. Stir and cook slowly until smooth and creamy. 

Maude Stedman Curtis (Omega). 



MEATS 29 



Chicken Pie Crust 



2}4 cups flour in bowl 

2 teaspoons baldng powder 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter — rubbed thoroughly into flour 
break egg, beat it thoroughly 

add 1 cup milk to egg 

then add flour and spread over chicken. 

This is for very large chicken pie. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Pressed Chicken 

1 medium sized chicken 1 tablespoon Knox's gelatine 

2 stalks celery 2 hard boiled eggs 
14 bunch parsley salt to taste 

Cut the chicken in pieces as for a fricassee and boil in salted 
water with celery, parsley and a small onion, if desired. When 
tender, remove the meat from the bones and chop medium fine. 
Boil broth down to a pint, add gelatine and strain. 

Dip an oblong tin into cold water, cover the bottom with the 
hard boiled eggs cut in rings. When the stock is nearly cold pour 
a httle over the eggs. Put in the chicken and the remainder of the 
stock. When perfectly cold cut in slices or serve the mould whole. 

Florence Carpenter Smith (Sigma). 

Baked Chicken 

Take a young chicken, cut up as for frying. Place in a baking 
dish. Add one-half cup of flour and one-fourth cup of butter. Dredge 
the flour over all the pieces of chicken, also put bits of butter through- 
out the pan of chicken and add one pint of water. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Cover tightly. Bake one hour or until chicken is tender. 
Turn the pieces of chicken once during the baking. 

Unsigned. 



30 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Smothered Chicken 

Place a tender j'^oung chicken, which has been spHt down the 
back and spread open, in a spider. Add one cup water, salt, pepper 
and butter. Spread two strips of bacon over the chicken, cover and 
let simmer on back of stove until tender. Uncover and, basting fre- 
quently, brown in oven. 

Alice Scott EUis (Xi). 

Chicken Southern Style 

Cut up the chicken as for frying. Dip in beaten egg, season 
with salt and pepper, then roll in cracker crumbs. Place in buttered 
baking dish and half cover with milk. Put bits of butter over the 
chicken and cover tightly. Bake until tender (from two to three 
hours) . The last one-half hour remove the cover and let the chicken 
brown. 

Hortense K. MacDonald (Sigma). 

Chicken a la Rome 

Take tender spring chickens, cut each into four nice pieces (whole 
legs, and each wing with half of breast attached). Put backs and 
necks on the stove in a pan of water to cook slowly. If the chickens 
are not very tender, parboil the legs and breasts in this water for a 
little while, then take out, dry, and roll twice in egg and cracker 
crumbs, sprinkle with a little pepper and generously with bits of 
butter and put into a self-basting roaster. Put a slice or two of 
bacon on the chicken and put into a hot oven. Now make a rich 
cream sauce, using the broth, in which the necks and backs are 
coolcing, to thin to proper consistency, seasoning well with salt and 
pepper. 

When chicken begins to brown turn down the oven so that it 
will finish cooking in a moderate oven. When chicken is done, 
sprinkle lightly with salt and pour over it the rich cream sauce, 
allowing the chicken to "mellow" for fifteen minutes to a half hour. 
Mushrooms ma}^ be added to the sauce. This chicken is fine for 
picnics. It may be put in a hot deep covered granite pan, wrapped 
in newspapers and a blanket and it will keep hot a long time. 

Ruth Scott Dancer (Xi). 



MEATS 31 

Ham 

Baked Ham 

Soak a medium sized ham in water twenty-four hours, changing 
the water several times. Wipe it dry and cover the flesh side of 
ham with a thick paste of flour and water. Bake twenty-five minutes 
for every pound, basting often with sherry wine until one-half pint 
has been used, then baste with drippings in the pan. When done, 
peel off the skin and carefully remove the crust. Serve with cham- 
pagne sauce. Adelaide Thompson Blodgett (Lambda). 

Baked Ham 

Use a slice of ham, an inch thick, center cut preferred. Cover 
with a teaspoon of flour and sugar. Slice two medium size tomatoes, 
seasoned with a little salt, pepper and sugar, and put over the ham. 
Place this in a pan in which is a good sized piece of butter and a 
little hot water. Bake three-fourths of an hour. 

Carrie D. Reed (Kappa). 

Baked Ham 

Buy a middle cut of ham, one or one and one-half inches thick, 
also extra piece of ham fat. Dice fat. Rub both sides of ham 
thoroughly with mustard. Put part of fat in baking pan, lay ham on 
top, cover about an inch thick with brown sugar. Scatter rest of 
fat on top. Nearly cover the meat with water. Bake in covered pan 
in moderate oven about forty minutes, basting several times. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Baked Ham 

Cover slice of ham one inch thick with cold water and let come 
to boil. Drain and cover each side with a thin coating of prepared 
mustard. Cover with milk and bake slowly until milk is absorbed. 

Edith C. Smyth (Gamma). 

Ham Baked in Milk 
One thick slice of ham or one half ham. Parboil one hour. If 
a whole ham boil two hours. Cover with milk. Slice raw potatoes 
over top. Bake three quarters or one hour. 

Grace Connors Nelson (Lambda). 



32 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Ham Italian Style 
Have cut from the center of a ham at least two pounds. Cover 
one side of ham thick with brown sugar and place in a baker. Sprinkle 
well with ground cloves. Place on top thick slices of two onions, 
previously browned in two tablespoons butter. Add boiling water, 
not quite covering the ham. Cover the baker and cook very slowly, 
forty-five minutes to the pound. When ham is done the water 
should have boiled away. Add to drippings three tablespoons flour, 
mixing smooth. Stir in three-fourths pint milk. Serve with boiled 
potatoes. Martha Dever Moulton (Lambda). 

Ham Loaf 
2 pounds lean pork chopped 2 tablespoons bread crumbs 

1 pound lean ham 1 cup milk 

2 eggs pepper or paprika to taste 
Shape in a loaf in pan, cover with one-half cap bread crumbs 

and one cup tomato juice, basting frequently with the tomato juice. 
Set in pan of hot water. Bake three hours in a slow oven. Can be 
served hot with gravy made from residue in pan, or is very nice 
cold. This recipe makes enough to serve eight or ten people, and then 
there would probably be enough left to slice cold. 

Spiced Ham 

Buy half of a Swift's Premium Ham. Soak over night, change 
water and soak until noon. Boil, allowing twenty minutes to pound, 
until tender. Change water once. In second water put in enough 
to half cover and add one cup of sherry or cider. Skin and make a 
paste of brown sugar and cider. Cover fat with whole cloves inserted 
about an inch apart over the paste. Bake half to three quarters of an 
hour. Serve hot as a roast. Grace Tennant Adams (Lambda) . 

Ham and Veal Loaf 

1/^ pounds ham 4 soda crackers 

2 pounds veal • " 3 eggs 

salt and pepper to taste 
Steam three hours. Have meat chopped fine, beat eggs and mix 
thoroughly. Slice cold or serve hot. ^^^^^ g^ Hamilton (Chi). 



MEATS 33 

Ham in Milk 

Place two slices of ham, cut about one-half inch thick, in a pan. 
Pour over this a quart of milk, quarter potatoes and place them 
around and on top of the ham. 

Cook until potatoes are browned and ham is tender. 

Lamb 
Lamb Curry 

Y2 cup butter Y2 teaspoon curry powder 

Y2 teaspoon onion juice Y2 cup milk 

1 pint lamb cut in dice salt and pepper 

Brown together in hot pan the butter, pepper and salt. Stir in 
Iamb and curry powder, add milk. Serve with boiled rice. 

Elsie Manville (Rho Sigma). 

Leg of Lamb 

Rub a leg of lamb with salt and pepper, and place in a baker 
with a little boiling water, and two or three pieces of ginger root in 
the pan, not touching the meat. Bake quickly for about three-fourths 
of an hour, basting twice in that time with butter melted in a little 
hot water. Then mix a little flour with thick sweet cream into a paste, 
and spread a little of it over the meat, repeating this every fifteen 
minutes till the lamb is done. The paste of cream and flour will drip 
off into the pan and brown, and will make the gravy with no further 
attention. A pint of cream will do, with about two tablespoons of 
flour, but more will be needed to make a generous amount of gravy. 
Allow fifteen minutes to the pound and fifteen minutes over for the 
total time of baking. Bernice H. Irwin (Lambda). 

Lamb Chops a la Sabine 

Gash lengthwise, nearly to the bone, six French chops and stuff 
with the following: 

6 tablespoons soft bread crumbs 
23^2 tablespoons chopped cooked ham 
23^2 tablespoons chopped mushrooms 
2 tablespoons melted butter 



34 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Add salt and cayenne to taste. Dip in cruml^s, then in egg and 
then again in crumbs and fry in deep fat four minutes. Serve with 
Madeira sauce poured around the chops. 

Herberta Fonda (Kappa). 

Russian Lamb 

1 leg of lamb (fat) 3 green peppers 

6 ripe tomatoes 4 medium sized onions 

Chop tomatoes, peppers and onions together until fine. Spread 
over the roast after it has been in oven three-fourths of an hour. 
Let roast until done, basting frequently. This is also good with beef 
loaf. Frances A. Hale (Sigma). 

Pork 

Casseroled Pork Chops 

Barely cover the bottom of a casserole with water. 

Put in laj^er of chops. 

Cover with layer of sliced apples and buttered bread crumbs. 
Repeat until all the chops have been used. 

Bake in moderate oven one hour, basting every fifteen minutes 
with one tablespoon of milk. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda Nu). 

Pork Tenderloin 

Fry salt pork until crisp and brown. Take out and fry slices of 
pork tenderloin until brown. Put in casserole and cover with milk 
thickened with browned flour. Bake fortj^-five minutes. 

Maude Stedman Curtis (Omega). 

Pork Tenderloin 

Take whole tenderloins, slit them down the middle, put in slice 
of bacon and two or three slices of onion. Tie them together. Bake 
one hour. ]\Iake gravy to serve with them. Each tenderloin weighs 
about one half pound and will not serve more than two people. 

Link sausage may be used in the place of bacon. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 



MEATS 35 

Roast Pork Tenderloin 

Make a dressing of 

bread crumbs a little cinnamon 

sour apples, diced melted butter 

raisins salt and pepper to taste 

Spread on the meat, roll and tie, roast in a hot oven, allowing 
about fifteen minutes to a pound of meat. Serve with currant or 

other tart jelly. Ethel Elliott Swan (Tau). 

Pork and Ham Loaf 

2 pounds fresh pork 1 can Campbell's tomato soup 

1 pound ham 1 egg 

3^2 cup milk seasoning 

1 cup ground dry bread crumbs 
Grind ham and pork together, add bread crumbs, milk, beaten 
egg, seasoning, and shape into a loaf. 

Pour over the loaf 1 can of tomato soup and the same amount of 
water. Bake in a moderate oven one and one-half hours. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda). 

Rabbit 
Jugged Rabbit 

Have the rabbit skinned by the butcher. Draw it and wash 
quickly. Cut into pieces and roll each piece in flour. Heat half a 
cupful of butter in a frying pan and put the meat in, to brown well on 
all sides. Remove the meat to a stew pan. Put into the fat in the 
frying pan two tablespoons of flour. Stir until brown. Add three 
cups of water. Cook ten minutes and pour this gravy over the meat 
in the stew pan. 

Add salt, pepper, a little spice and small onion, uncut. Cover 
closely. Simmer until tender, about one and one-half hours. Then 
add 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon mushroom ketchup 

6 tablespoons sherry (may be omitted, but adds to flavor.) 
Serve with boiled rice. 

Helen Adams (Rho) . 



36 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Sweetbreads 

Sweetbreads with Bacon 

Plunge sweetbreads into cold water, let stand one hour, drain, and 
put into acidulated, salted boiling water. Cook slowly twenty 
minutes. Again drain and plunge into cold water. Remove tough 
outside skin. Take pieces as big as a croquette or veal bird. Wrap 
around with thin slice of bacon, fastening with toothpick. Bake in 
the oven until bacon is nicely browned, turning frequently. Remove 
toothpicks and serve at once. 

Alice B. Fraser (Lambda Nu). 

Sweetbread Cremosettes 

1 pound sweetbreads, blanch and cook 20 minutes 
13^ pints cream sauce 
1 slice bacon, fried 
salt and pepper to taste 
Break the sweetbreads into the small segments and remove the 
tissue. Mix with the cream sauce and chopped bacon. When cold 
form into small chops, dip in bread crumbs and egg and fry in deep 
lard. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Sweetbread and Mushroom Cremosettes 

Same as above, except that instead of mushroom sauce, mix one 
can of mushrooms with one half pound of sweetbreads. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Tongue 

Tongue with Mushrooms 

Boil fresh beef tongue from three to four hours. Let cool and skim 
off fat. Before serving put on stove and heat through in same 
liquor. Put into liquor one-half pint port wine, a cup of green 
olives cut fine and a small can of mushrooms. Serve on plate with 
liquor around it. 

Ethel M. Tukey (Kappa). 



MEATS 



37 



Tongue with Tomato Sauce 

Boil tongue until tender. Skin and return to kettle. Add one-haK 
cup stock and one can tomatoes. Cook slowly until tomatoes are done. 
Thicken with flour and add two tablespoonfuls onion juice. Put 
on platter, cover with the sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

Gayle Marshall (Theta). 

Turkey- 
Turkey Loaf 

Take two cups cold turkey meat, or turkey and dressing, and 
one cup celery. If gravy is left bring one cup to a boil and add one 
tablespoonful Knox's gelatine previously dissolved in cold water. 
If there is no gravy, use stock instead. Mix well with meat and celery, 
season to taste. If there is not enough liquid to moisten well, add a 
little hot water. Put into an oblong tin to harden. Serve cold. 
Boiled French chestnuts, chopped green pepper or pimentoes, add to 
the flavor. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Veal 
Baked Veal Steak 

Have the meat cut an inch thick. Remove bone and gristle. 
Pound with a meat pounder until the meat is almost in shreds, then 
pat the flattened pieces into shape, salt, roll in egg and flour, and 
brown them in butter. Cover with water, set the frying pan in the 
oven and bake for an hour, adding water from time to time as it 
becomes necessary. 

Marguerite Stanley Corl (Xi). 

Veal Birds 

Take a veal steak, cut into four inch squares and sprinkle with 
salt. Chop parsley and mix with butter. Put some in each square, 
pin with a toothpick, brown in butter, add a little water or stock 
and cook slowly until tender. 

Mary Bassett Bray (Lambda). 



38 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Veal in Cream 

Cut veal steak into individual portions and brown in butter in a 
frying pan, sprinkle liberally with salt and pepper, and then pour 
over it thick sweet cream. A pint of cream will be enough meat 
for six persons. Cover the pan and let simmer on the back of the 
range. If it cooks rapidly the cream will curdle. 

Bernice H. Irwin (Lambda). 

Cream of Veal 

3 pounds boneless veal, cooked thoroughly and cut up into 

dice 
1 can of mushrooms, diced 
Make a white sauce of 
5 tablespoons of butter 

4 rounding tablespoons of flour 
1 pint cream 

1 quart milk 

Season and add the juice of the mushrooms. Add all to the veal 
and mushrooms, put in buttered baldng dish. Cover with crumbs and 
bake until light brown. Katherine H. Johnson (Lambda). 

Veal Croquettes 

2 cups chopped veal, cooked 
Yi teaspoon salt 

Yi teaspoon celery salt 
1 saltspoon pepper 

}/i saltspoon cayenne pepper (or 1 teaspoon curry powder) 
1 teaspoon lemon juice ' 
Mix with cream sauce prepared as follows: 

1 pint hot ci-eam 

2 even tablespoons butter 
4 heaping tablespoons flour 
Y2 teaspoon salt 

Y2 teaspoon celery salt 
trifle cayenne or curry 
The sauce should be very thick. Add the chopped veal and cool. 
Shape into croquettes. 



MEATS 39 

Before frying, beat two eggs, add two tablespoons milk and one 
teaspoon salt. 

Roll croquettes in fine bread or cracker crumbs, then in egg, 
then in crumbs again. Fry in hot fat. 

These can be made and fried in the morning. At tea time put 
in dripping pan and just heat through. This a good way to use up 
left over meat. 

Juha Louise Mills (Lambda Nu). 

Curry of Veal 

One and one-half pounds lean veal, cut into inch dice and stewed 
until very tender, in enough water to leave nearly a pint of stock 
when done. Add salt and pepper. Put a tablespoon of butter in a 
frying pan and when hot add one large Spanish onion, sliced thin, and 
two tart apples, cored and pared. Cook until brown, add the stock, 
thicken, add the meat and juice of a lemon and curry powder to 
taste. Serve with rice. 

Clara King Allen (Lambda). 

Veal Loaf 

2 pounds lean veal, chopped fine 
3^ pound salt pork, chopped fiAe 
2 cups buttered crackers, rolled 
2 eggs, well beaten 

2 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon pepper 
Y2 teaspoon mace or nutmeg 
Mould into a loaf. Bake two hours, basting with hot water. 

Gayle Marshall (Theta.) 

Veal Loaf 

3 pounds veal, ground Yi cup milk 
Y2 pound pickle pork, ground 2 eggs 

3/^ cup bread crumbs salt and pepper 

Bake in oven for three hours. Set in pan of hot water while 
baking. 

Unsigned. 



40 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Steamed Veal Steak 

Dip veal steak in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Brown in a 
spider. Put in a steamer and steam for two or three hours. 

Brown mushrooms in butter and make a gravy using some of 
the juice from the meat. Pour the gravj^ over the meat and serve. 

Unsigned. 

Meat Combinations 

Swedish Meat Balls 

2 pounds beef, 1 , ,, i x • j . • 

,,, , ' > put through meat grmder twice 

1}4 pounds pork J ''^ 

1 egg 

2 cups dried bread crumbs 
salt and pepper 

onion juice, very little, if desired 
Work all together ten minutes, putting in little soup stock as you 
work it. Let stand one-half hour. Mix well again, make into small 
balls, brown in butter, and then add little water or soup stock and 
simmer about one-half hour. Mary Bassett Bray (Lambda) . 

Chili Con Carni 

Grind two pounds round steak and put in kettle with small lump 
of suet and cup of water. Add can of kidney beans or two cups of 
Mexican beans partially cooked. Senson with salt, sugar and red 
pepper or chih pepper and after cooldng half an hour add cup of 
cooked tomatoes. Cook until all are thoroughly mingled and remove 
suet. Mrs. F. E. McCleary (Xi Zeta). 

American Chop Suey 

IH pounds round steak 1 large bunch celery 

2 medium sized onions seasoning and thickening 

Cut the steak into pieces about a finger in length and an inch 
wide, add onions and seasoning and stew for two hours. Add the 
celery cut into bits and cook for twenty minutes more. Thicken with 
flour and serve inside a ring of boiled rice, garnished with parsley. 

j^Harriet Moore Pier (Lambda Nu). 



MEATS 41 

Croquettes 

Two cups ground meat mixed with sauce made of two tablespoons 
butter, four tablespoons flour, one-half cup stock or water, three- 
fourths cup cream or milk, salt and paprika to taste. Cook sauce 
thick and add meat. Then add about one tablespoon onion juice, 
grating of lemon, one teaspoon minced parsley, grating of nutmeg, 
and one tablespoon catsup. All the flavoring may be added to taste. 
Spread on platter in a flat loaf shaped cake and let cool. When 
thoroughly cold, cut in equal sized pieces, roll on a paper into desired 
shape, dip in shghtly beaten white of egg to which a little water has 
been added, and then into sifted bread crumbs. Roll into shape 
again if necessary and place where cold until ready to fry. Have 
fat hot and fry about three minutes in French fryer. 

Florence McGuire (Xi). 

. Mock Chicken Croquettes 

1}4 cups cold chopped pork or veal, or both; or one may use 

chicken }/2 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon butter 3^ teaspoon salt 

3^ tablespoon flour J^ teaspoon pepper 

}/^ cup milk or stock 3^ tablespoon lemon juice 

dash of nutmeg 1 egg 

Cook the flour in the butter, add the milk gradually, then the 
seasoning and meat. Remove from the fire, add the egg well beaten, 
mix and cool. Form into croquettes, dip into beaten egg, roll in 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Mary Bassett Bray (Lambda Nu) . 

Hungarian Goulash 

Butter an earthen baking dish, put in a layer of round steak 
cut into inch squares, salt and pepper and bits of butter. Prepare 
two or three potatoes and carrots (depends on size) and slice raw in 
layers on the meat, seasoning each layer. Add left over cooked rice, 
canned or fresh tomatoes. Celery cut in small pieces adds to the 
flavor. A little onion may be added if so desired. You can vary 
your vegetables according to j^our larder but tomatoes are essential. 
When the dish is well filled, cover with cold water and bake for two 



42 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

hours in a slow oven. Liquid left after baking can be thickened by- 
stirring in a tablespoon of flour, worked smooth in cold water. Cook 
gravy over a low fire for a minute or two. 

Lilhan Smith Burwell (Lambda Nu). 

Hungarian Goulash 
3 pounds veal, cut into two-inch cubes 

3 large potatoes, diced 2 cloves of garUc 

Yi cup water 3^ teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup cream 

1 cup butter or drippings Yi teaspoon black pepper 
Put the butter or drippings into a kettle on the range and when 

hot add the veal. Cook until brown. Add the water, cover closely and 
cook very slowly. When meat has been cooking about three-fourths 
of an hour, mash the two cloves of garhc to a smooth paste with part of 
the salt and add it to the meat. When the meat is tender, add the 
rest of the salt and the paprika and place potatoes on top of the 
meat. Cover and cook until the potatoes are tender, but not falhng 
to pieces. Add the cream and cook five minutes longer. 

Florence Dyer Kahn (Chi Sigma) . 

Cabbage Meat Loaf 

4 pounds beef 2 eggs 

2 pounds pork, put through 1 tablespoon corn starch 
meat grinder Yi cup bread crumbs 

2 cups boiled rice salt and pepper 

Work all together, at least ten minutes. Let stand fifteen minutes 
to swell. Make into balls and wrap in cabbage leaves which have 
been scalded. Brown slowly in butter. Then add a little water or 
soup stock and let simmer about one hour. 

Mary Bassett Bray (Lambda). 

Meat Souffle 
1 cup white sauce heat and add 2 beaten egg 

1 cup chopped meat yolks 

Cook one minute, cool, then stir in two beaten egg whites. 
Bake in buttered dish twentj'' minutes in moderate oven. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Adelaide Moys Washburn (Phi and Chi Sigma). 



MEATS 43 

Vienna Stew 
Cut into dice 13^ pounds raw shoulder steak or roast 
Sprinkle over it 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vinegar 
Let stand 1 hour 

Place one small onion cut fine in a granite kettle. Pour over 
it the meat. Cover very tightly, using no water (about three quarters 
of an hour over slow flame). Boil down until it fries a little. Then 
add one cup cream (shghtly sour will do as well as fresh). Season 
with one teaspoon caraway seed, salt and pepper, and marjoram. 
Serve with parsley. Marjorie Preston Stevens (Lambda Nu). 

Mock Terrapin 

Use cold veal, chicken or turkey, hght or dark. 
Take 2 cups cold cooked meat, diced 

2 hard boiled eggs, diced 
juice 1 lemon 

1 small onion grated 
Mix all these (this part can be prepared several hours before 
needed). 

Heat up at meal time in the following sauce: 
1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

Stir together, add one cup cream and one cup milk, salt, pepper 
and one big teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

Boil until smooth and creamy. Add meat mixture and cook un- 
til well heated. Serve on small squares of toast, or for formal 
luncheon, in pattie shells. 

Marjorie Preston Stevens (Lambda Nu). 

Meat Sauces 

Cold Meat Sauce 

4 tablespoons tarragon vinegar 
4 tablespoons catsup 

2 heaping tablespoons currant jelly 

Let the ingredients come to a boil, then add a few sprigs of mint, 
if desiredjjand serve warm. Alice Christopher Browne (Sigma) . 



44 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Creole Sauce 

2 tablespoons chopped onions 

4 tablespoons green peppers, finely chopped 

2 tablespoons butter 

2 tomatoes 6 olives, stoned 

]4: cup sliced mushrooms 114 cups brown sauce 
salt and pepper to taste and a dash of sherry 
Cook onion and pepper with butter five minutes; add tomatoes, 
mushrooms, olives, and cook two minutes. Then add brown sauce. 
Bring to boiling point and add wine to taste. Serve with filet of beef. 

AHce Christopher Browne (Sigma). 

Cucumber Sauce 

Make a French dressing of 

3 tablespoons of olive oil ]/2 teaspoon of salt 

2 tablespoons of vinegar cayenne and paprika to taste 

Add dressing to cucumber, chopped fine and drained, and mix 
well, keep cold. Serve with fish. 

Elsie Foulke Haney (Lambda). 

Hollandaise Sauce 

(Especially good for salmon loaf). 

3^2 cup butter 1 saltspoon salt 

yolks 2 eggs pinch cayenne pepper 

juice }/2 lemon 3^ cup boiling water 

Rub butter to a cream, add egg yolks, one at a time, beat well, 
add lemon juice, salt and pepper. Just before serving add boiling 
water. Cook, stirring rapidly, until it thickens like custard. Pour 
over fish. Florence-Schuyler Thorpe (Lambda). 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Cream one heaping tablespoon flour with two tablespoons 
butter. 

Add one-half pint boiling water and salt to taste. Beat yolks of 
three eggs. Add to drawn butter and cook until smooth. Then 
add juice of one-half lemon. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 



MEATS 45 

Madeira Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

3 tablespoons flour 3^ cup heavy cream 

2 tablespoons Madeira sauce 2 chopped truffles 

salt and pepper to taste 
Melt the butter, add the flour and stir until well blended, then 
pour on gradually while stirring the milk and cream. Bring to 
boiling point, add truffles and wine. 

Herberta Fonda (Kappa). 

Mushroom Sauce 

1 pint soup stock (white preferred) 
1 can mushrooms 
Thicken with roux of one-half cup flour and two tablespoons 
butter. Season with salt and pepper. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Sauce for Salmon Loaf 

1 tablespoon butter chopped onion 

2 tablespoons flour 

Cook until light brown, add one pint milk, juice one-half lemon, 
salt and pepper. Anne Wright (Kappa) . 

Tartare Sauce 

To one-half pint mayonnaise, add one cup of chopped olives 
and capers. Or use any chopped mixed sour pickle instead of the 
olives and capers. Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Tomato Sauce for Meats or Steamed Rice 

1 cup tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour Y2 slice onion 
salt and pepper Y2 bay leaf 

Stew tomatoes, bay leaf and onion three minutes. Strain into a 
bowl. Then proceed as in white sauce, using tomato as moisture 
and serving it hot. Elizabeth Mogg (Rho Sigma). 



46 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Tomato Sauce 

•Boil together two cups tomatoes, one cup water, one apple 
quartered, six cloves, six pepper corns, one bay leaf, one-half teaspoon 
salt, until apple is tender. Thicken with one teaspoon flour rubbed 
into one teaspoon butter. 

Florence Irwin Smith (Rho). 

Dumplings That Cannot Fall 

1 egg 1 heaping teaspoon baking 

\}/2 cups flour powder 

1 teaspoon salt (scant) 1 tablespoon butter 

3/2 cup milk 
Sift flour, salt, and baking powder twice. Work in butter, add 
egg and milk. Drop in pot from tablespoon but first set pot of of 
stove. Never drop them in while water is boiling. Have meat or 
chicken just barely covered, so that the dumplings do not settle in 
liquid. Put back on fire, cover tight and do not ^disturb for twenty 
minutes. (Low fire). Serves four moderately. 

Hazel Whitaker Vandenberg (Xi) . 

English Yorkshire Pudding 

To two beaten eggs and a pint of milk add sufficient flour, into 
which has been sifted one teaspoon of salt and one teaspoon baking 
powder, to make a very thin batter. Pour this into the dripping pan 
containing a roast of beef, one-half hour before taking it from the 
oven. 

Vera Burridge (Xi), 

What to Serve with Meats 

Roast Beef grated horse radish. 

Roast Veal tomato or horse radish sauce. 

Roast INIutton currant jell3'". 

Roast Lamb mint sauce. 

Roast Turkey chestnut dressing, cranberry jelly. 

Roast Venison black currant jelly or grape jelly. 

Roast Goose tart apple sauce. 

Roast Quail currant jelly, celery sauce. 



MEATS 47 

Roast Chicken . . .■ bread sauce. 

Fried Chicken cream gravy, corn fritters. 

Roast Duck orange salad 

Roast Pork baked apples. 

Unsigned. 
Beef 

White or sweet potatoes, mushrooms, cooked bananas, hominy- 
croquettes, rice, marcaroni, tomatoes. 

For informal dinners also, cauliflower, brussels sprouts, beets, 
spinach, oyster plant, squash, turnips, green corn, egg plant, peas 
and beans. 

Sauces: brown, mustard, mushroom, Maitre d'Hotel, tomato. 

Ham or Pork 

White or sweet potatoes, spinach, beets, beet greens, brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower, cabbage, apples. 
Sauces: apple, chive, champagne. 

Lamb or Mutton 

White or sweet potatoes, rice or farina croquettes, tomato 
croquettes, green peas, celery, cucumbers, asparagus, spinach, 
squash, turnips, parsnips, brussels sprouts, cauhflower, egg plant. 

Sauces: mushroom, champagne, onion, tomato, currant. 

Veal 

White or sweet potatoes, spinach, beets, peas, beans, parsnips, 
cauliflower. 

Sauces: cream, brown, chive, Hollandaise, Madeira, mushroom, 
onion, sorrel, tomato. 

Poultry 

White or sweet potatoes, rice croquettes, hominy, cucumbers, 
celery, mushrooms, peas, beans. 

Sauces: white, bechamel, chestnut, curry, Madeira, mushroom, 
olive, onion, tomato. 

Fish 

Potatoes, cucumbers, tomatoes. 

Sauces: Hollandaise, tartare, Maitre d'Hotel, tomato. 



VEGETABLES 

Asparagus Souffle 

3 tablespoons butter 3 eggs 

3 tablespoons flour 3^ teaspoon salt, cayenne 

^ cup milk 

1 cup fresh cooked asparagus, already boiled 
Cut asparagus in one inch lengths, using only tender portions of 
the stalks. Put the butter into a sauce pan and when hot add the 
flour and stir until smooth, add milk and seasonings. Cook two 
minutes. Remove from fire and add the well beaten yolks and the 
asparagus. Set away to cool. When cold add the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered baking dish and 
bake twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve at once. 

Grace Stilwell Boswell (Lambda Nu). 

Baked Bananas 

6 bananas 2 tablespoons butter 

'j/s cup sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Remove the skins and cut in halves lengthwise. Put in a shallow 
granite pan. Cream the butter and sugar and add lemon juice 
gradually. Baste the bananas with half the mixture. Bake twenty 
minutes in a slow oven, basting during baking with the remaining 
mixture. Very good to serve as a vegetable with steak. May be 
used as dessert. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Baked Beans 

Soak beans in water for twelve hours. Boil one-half pound salt 
pork until tender. Put half of the well soaked beans into a baking 
dish, placing on top a layer of the sliced pork and several slices of on- 
ion. Add the remaining beans and another layer of pork and onion. 
Use the water in which the pork was cooked to moisten dish. 

Bake seven hours in a slow oven. 

Emma Hinsdale (Pi). 

48 



VEGETABLES 49 

Cabbage 

1 cabbage, medium size 

1 cup milk salt, pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 3^ cup buttered bread 
2 tablespoons flour crumbs 

Remove stalk from cabbage, separate leaves and drop one at a 
time into a large kettle nearly full of rapidly boiling water, press down 
with a spoon; let boil fifteen minutes with the kettle uncovered. 
Drain leaves in a colander, cut slightly with a knife, place in a baking 
dish and pour over them a white sauce made of the butter, flour, 
milk and seasoning; sprinkle bread crumbs on top and brown in the 
oven. Ruth Wetzek (Chi Upsilon). 

Escalloped Cabbage 

First put cabbage into boiling water to which a little soda has been 
added. Boil five minutes. Drain and place cabbage in clean water 
to cure, and boil until tender. Chop drained cabbage and put layer 
in buttered baking pan, cover with white sauce, sprinkle with grated 
cheese — more cabbage, etc. Sprinkle top with paprika and grated 
cheese and buttered bread crumbs. Bake until well browned. 
Brussel sprouts and cauliflower may be cooked the same way. 

Vienna Stewed Carrots 

Peel carrots, cut into small pieces, boil in salted water until tender, 
and drain. Brown one tablespoon flour in two tablespoons butter, 
add one-half cup water in which the carrots were boiled, two table- 
spoons vinegar and one teaspoon sugar. Let all boil, then add the 
carrots and one cup cooked peas, some chopped parsley and pinch 
of pepper. Use about two cups of carrot to one of peas. Simmer 
ten minutes and serve hot. Mrs. J. C. ElHott King (Lambda). 

Cauliflower with Cheese 

Clean cauliflower, cut off leaves. Cover with hot water and boil 
until nearly tender. Make one pint thick cream sauce and add 
to it one-fourth pound grated cheese. Pour this over cauliflower, 
grate a little more cheese over top, and bake. Serve whole. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 



50 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Cauliflower au Gratin 
Break a medium sized, solid head of cauliflower into uniform 
sections and soak in cold salt water one-half hour. Throw into 
boiling salted water and boil until tender. Make a white sauce 
using three tablespoons melted butter, three tablespoons flour, 
three-quarters pint milk. Add cauliflower drained from the water. 
Season lightly with black and red pepper, put in buttered baking 
dish, cover top with grated cheese and brown in hot oven. 

Martha Dever Moulton (Lambda). 

Celery 
Grind two cupfuls of celery. Mix with one cup of bread crumbs. 
Season and moisten with milk. Bake until brown. 

Maud Case (Lambda Nu). 

Stewed Celery 

Wash and cut up stalks of celery, discarding leaves. Boil until 
tender, about twenty minutes, in salted water, using enough to 
scarcely cover. When tender, lower fire to simmering heat and add 
one tablespoon butter, rubbed into one tablespoon flour and one cup 
cream or part cream and part milk. Stir until milk thickens and serve. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Com and Bacon 

Shce one-half pound bacon and cut into very small pieces. Strain 
off liquid from one can of corn. Add two tablespoons melted butter. 
Mix well and fry. Persis Dewey (Iota). 

Baked Com 
1 pint grated corn 1 teaspoon butter 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt pepper to taste 

3 eggs beaten separately 
Use fresh or canned corn. Mix ingredients in order given, 
adding whites of eggs just before putting into oven. Bake forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Happy Hay ward Carpenter (Sigma). 



VEGETABLES * 51 

I 

Com Croquettes 

^ cup canned grated corn 4 soda crackers 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon melted butter 

2 eggs, well beaten 

Make into small balls, roll in cracker crumbs and brown in 
butter. 

Helen Butler (Kappa). 

Corn Fritters 

Add two egg yolks to one pint grated corn, then add one and 
one-fourth cups flour. Season with salt and pepper. Fold in the 
whites. Drop a little in hot deep fat. If the batter does not hold 
together, add a little more flour, as the moisture in the corn varies. 
Fry in deep fat. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Corn Oysters 

2 cups grated corn 4 tablespoons flour 

2 eggs, well beaten 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
^'s teaspoon black pepper 
1 or 2 tablespoons cream 
If corn is old use two tablespoons cream^ if young, one will 
probably be sufficient. Drop by small spoonfuls onto hot buttered 
griddle and fry. Serve immediately. 

Marion Kappes (Sigma). 

Scalloped Corn With Pimentoes 

1 can corn 2 eggs 

l}^. cups milk 3^ teaspoon salt 

'j/2 cup rolled crackers 
few grains of cayenne pepper 
1 chopped green pepper, or 1 chopped pimento 
Beat eggs and add milk, chopped pimentoes added last. Put in a 
slow oven and bake until firm, thirty minutes or more. 

Louella Cordier (Theta). 



52 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Corn Souffle 

Grate sweet corn. 

To one cup of grated corn add two cups very thick cream sauce, 
salt, pepper and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Just before baking 
add beaten whites of two eggs. 

Bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes. Serve at once. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Fried Egg Plant 

Slice egg plant about one-fourth inch thick. Cut off rind, sprinkle 
with salt and drain on slanting surface for one-half hour. Dip in 
beaten egg and cracker crumbs. Fry in lard. 

Unsigned. 

Egg Plant With Tomato Sauce 

Peel a large egg plant and cut into one-half inch cubes. Soak 
over night in salted ice water. Boil until clear and tender in salted 
water one-half hour to forty-five minutes. Prepare a rich tomato sauce 
by frying one sliced onion and one bay leaf in two tablespoons butter, 
adding two tablespoons flour, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon sugar, 
pepper to taste, one chopped, scalded green pepper and one can of 
tomatoes. Boil about ten minutes and strain over the egg plant in a 
baking dish. Cover with crumbs and bake from fifteen to twenty-five 
minutes. Dorothy Watkins (Kappa). 

Baked Macaroni 

Butter a baking dish, put in a layer of cooked tomatoes, a layer 
of cooked macaroni, a layer of chopped cooked beef, then a laj^er of 
tomatoes. Pour over all a small amount of stock and put bread 
crumbs and pieces of butter on top. Bake about one-half hour. 

Edna McKinley (Rho Sigma). 

Creamed Macaroni with Cheese 

Cook one cup finely broken macaroni in rapidly boihng salted 
water until tender. Drain, cover with cold water and drain again. 
Add two cups white sauce and one cup grated cheese to macaroni in 



VEGETABLES 53 

a baking dish. Mix thoroughly and cover with two-thirds cup cracker 
crumbs and one-third cup melted butter. Brown in oven. 

Unsigned. 

Peppers with Macaroni 

Fill green sweet peppers with finely chopped cooked macaroni, 
adding to each pepper a large spoonful of grated cheese. Bake in 
granite pan with but httle water. Cover pan. Serve as entree with 
tomato sauce. Good with fish. 

Jean M. Cunningham (Gamma). 

Macaroni Timbales 

3^ cup macaroni 1 cup cream or milk 

1 cup soft bread crumbs Y2 cup grated cheese 

yi cup butter 

Y2 red and green peppers 

1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

3 eggs beaten separately 
Break macaroni into inch pieces and cook until soft in boiling 
salt water, then throw into cold water and drain. Scald milk and 
pour over bread crumbs. Mix all together and bake in buttered 
moulds, set in pan of hot water. 

Ina Sackett (Lambda). 

Spanish Spaghetti 

1 package spaghetti 1 can tomatoes 

1 pound cheese 3 red peppers 

1 small bottle stuffed olives 

1 large onion 
Fry onion and peppers in two tablespoons of butter until brown. 
Add tomatoes strained and a tablespoon sugar. Boil the spaghetti, 
drain, put in baking dish and grate cheese over it. Add ohves cut in 
half, and other ingredients. Bake until brown, sprinkling cheese over 
the top. 

Gertrude Nelson Buck (Psi Phi). 



54 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Spaghetti or Macaroni Sauce a la Martini 

4 good sized onions, chopped fine 

2 kernels garlic, chopped fine 

1 quart can tomatoes, heated and pressed through sieve 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

Add onions and garlic to melted butter and oil. When of a 
golden color add parsley, tomatoes, one-fourth teaspoon crumbled 
bay leaf, six cloves, six dashes paprika, one teaspoon sugar, one 
teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoon Armour's extract of 
beef diluted in cup of boiling water, and salt and pepper to suit taste. 
Cook covered one-half hour, then remove cover and cook slowly two 
and one-half hours, adding hot water occasionally. Sauce must not be 
too thick or solid. This amount will do for two servings of two 
pounds macaroni or spaghetti. It can be kept in sealed can in cool 
place for several days; when using second time, heat and add hot 
water and a little butter. 

Boil macaroni in salted water (three quarts to one pound) fifteen 
to twenty minutes, or until tender. Drain and place on platter, 
sprinkle three or four tablespoons grated Parmesan or Roman cheese 
on top, then pour on sauce and mix. 

Instead of Armour's extract of beef, one can substitute one 
pound round steak chopped fine or one pound chopped veal or chicken 
giblets or two pounds solid chunk beef, adding it to sauce before 
adding tomatoes. Nellie L. Glover (Eta Upsilon). 

Mock Oysters 

Slice green tomatoes thin and soak in salt water. Fry brown 
after dipping in salt, pepper and flour. 

Harriet Van Bergen Deering (Lambda). 

Mock Oyster Croquettes 

Boil salsify (oyster plant) until tender. Drain, cool and dice. 
Make a thick white sauce, add the diced salsify and shape into 
croquettes. Roll in crumbs and fry in deep fat or bake in the oven 
until brown. Ruth Rosholt (Lambda). 



VEGETABLES 55 

Baked Peppers 

Choose symmetrical peppers, cut off stem end. Scrape out 
seeds and boil in salted water until tender. Pour carefully into them 
some tomatoes, previously cooked and seasoned with pepper, salt, 
chopped onion and bread crumbs. Bake until brown. 

Winifred Sherman Updike (Kappa). 



Stuffed Green Peppers 

Cut off stem end of seven green peppers, remove seeds and parboil 
ten minutes in one quart boiling water, to which has been added one- 
eighth teaspoon soda. To one-half cup boiled rice add one-half cup 
highly seasoned tomato puree and let stand on back of range until 
rice has absorbed tomato ; then add one-half cup cold, cooked chicken 
or veal, cut in small cubes, and season with salt and paprika. Fill 
peppers with mixture, cover tops with buttered crumbs, and bake un- 
til crumbs are brown. Remove to circular pieces of sauted bread. 
Serve with mustard sauce. 

Gertrude White (Rho Sigma). 

Baked Sweet Potatoes and Marshmallows 

Cook six large sweet potatoes in boiling water; mash these; add 
hot milk and butter; beat them. Put them into a casserole and 
cover with marshmallows. Put in the oven for a few minutes until 
the marshmallows are light brown. 

Two tablespoons sugar and vanilla may be added before baking. 

Potato Boats 

Select long potatoes, cut in half the long way and bake until 
thoroughly done. Remove potato from shell and mash. Shred a 
few slices of bacon and fry with some chopped green peppers, add this 
with grease to the potato which has been removed from the shell 
and mashed. Salt to taste. Replace mixture in the shells, sprinkle 
dry bread crumbs over top, place in oven and brown. 

Marie Weesner (Kappa). 



56 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Cook potatoes in a thick syrup composed of one cup sugar to one 
cup boiling water; when tender add one tablespoon butter, place 
in a baking dish and brown in the oven. 

Alice Scott EUis (Xi). 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

6 sweet potatoes 3^ cup water 

y^ cup of white or brown sugar 3^ teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons butter or substitute 
Wash and pare sweet potatoes. Cut into slices or different shapes. 
Arrange potatoes in a greased baking dish, cover with sugar, butter 
and water mixture and bake one hour. 

Lilhan Smith Burwell (Lambda Nu). 

Maitre d'Hotel Potatoes 

Cut potatoes into one-half inch cubes or balls. Cook two cups 
of potatoes in boihng salted water until soft. Drain and add Maitre 
d'Hotel butter. Unsigned. 

Potatoes O'Brien au Gratin 

Dice, boil almost tender and drain two quarts potatoes. In 
one-half cup melted butter fry one tablespoon minced onion and 
three minced pimentoes. Add two cups cheese (old cheese grated or 
new put through meat grinder). Mix all together, salt and pepper to 
taste and bake about twenty minutes. 

Mary Bassett Bray (Lambda). 

O'Brien Potatoes 

1 quart chopped cold boiled potatoes 

2 tablespoons finely chopped onion 

1 tablespoon finely chopped pmiento 

3 tablespoons melted butter 

Season with salt and pepper, mix all together, pack in a very 
shallow baking dish, put bits of butter over top. Bake until brown. 

Louise F. Todd (Omega). 



VEGETABLES 57 

Potato Omelet 

Put two tablespoons lard and butter in spider. Pack one pint 
raw potatoes, chopped fine, compactly in spider after the fat is 
smoking hot. Pour over them three tablespoons water. Cook 
twenty or twenty-five minutes over low fire. 

Ruth Bachman (Rho). 
• 

Parisienne Potatoes 

To one-half pint of mashed potatoes add a little salt, one egg, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder and flour enough to roll out. 

Roll them out as thick as your finger, cut out the size of a quarter 
and drop in boiling fat. They will become round in frying. 

Edith V. Power (Alpha Beta). 

Potato Patty Shells 

Sweetbreads and mushrooms 

3 cups mashed potato, seasoned to taste 

1 egg 

Shape like patty shells, cover with fine cracker crumbs and fry to 
a light brown in deep fat. Use a frying basket to keep shells in shape. 
Fill with creamed sweetbreads, mushroom or chicken. Serve with a 
small mould of cucumber jelly. 

Mrs. J. H. Long (Sigma). 

Potato Pufifs 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 cup mashed potato 

2 eggs beaten separately 

Mix like a light mashed potato with 

1 cup milk yolks of eggs 

}/i cup flour, sifted 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder pepper 

Last put in whites of eggs and fry in lumps in deep fat until 
brown. 

Helen Adams (Rho). 



58 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 



Potato Scones 



\}/2 cups flour 1 cup mashed potatoes 

1 egg 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3^3 cup butter 1^2 teaspoon salt 

Milk enough to mix into a stiff dough. Fry on a griddle. 

Eleanor A. Brettle (Rho Sigma). 



Sweet Potatoes Southern Style 

About eight or ten medium sized potatoes. Boil in skins in salted 
water. Pare and cut lengthwise. Put into large flat pan, cover 
one-half inch thick with brown sugar. Add one-fourth pound butter 
and one tablespoon molasses. 

Baste often. Cook one hour. 

Alcetta Gilbert Clarke (Lambda Nu). 

Rice Cakes 

1 cup boiled rice 1 egg 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

^ cup milk 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
Put the rice into a bowl, add the milk and mix well, then add the 
well beaten egg, sugar and salt. Sift the flour and baking powder 
into the mixture and stir well. A little ground cinnamon or grated 
nutmeg can be added. Bake on a hot griddle, allowing a tablespoon 
to a cake. Serve with maple or brown sugar. 

Lou Ashley Hubble (Rho Sigma). 

Escalloped Rice and Cheese 

Wash in three waters one cup large grain rice, add one teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon butter, three cups boiling water and cook one-half 
hour in a fireless cooker or a double boiler. To this add one-half 
pound of cheese cut fine, one well beaten egg added* to one cup milk. 
Stir in carefully with a fork and bake in a quick oven for twent}'^ min- 
utes. 

Margaret Murray (Iota). 



VEGETABLES 59 



Rice Haste 



1 cup milk 1 cup chopped meat 

1 cup boiled rice 2 tablespoons butter 

Y<i teaspoon salt and pepper 
1 well beaten egg 
Put into patty pans and bake. 



Mabel Kellogg (Chi). 



Mexican Rice 



Cook together one cup boiled rice and one cup tomatoes. Add 
chopped red pepper and an onion size of a walnut, two tablespoons 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, butter size of egg. Cook until onion is 
tender. Turn into baking dish, cover with bread crumbs, using half 
of the butter on top. Bake twenty-five minutes. 

Patroness Pi Chapter. 

Spanish Rice 

. Yi onion, cut fine 1 cup rice, uncooked 

1 green pepper, cut fine 1 can tomatoes 

2 tablespoons olive oil salt to taste 

Heat the oil in a granite pan, add onion and pepper and fry until 
golden brown, add the cup of uncooked rice, and when it is thor- 
oughly warmed put in the can of tomatoes. Cook slowly for about 
an hour, stirring now and then with a fork. More boiling water may 
be added in case it is not moist enough. 

Hazel Williams (Omega). 

Spanish Rice 

1 cup rice 2 green peppers 

2 large tomatoes or 3^ can salt to taste 
2 heaping tablespoons butter 

1 quart cold water 
Wash rice and put in double boiler. Remove seeds and veins 
from peppers and cut into small pieces. Peel tomatoes and slice. 
Put all the ingredients in double boiler with rice and cook one hour. 

Jessie Ware Libby (Lambda). 



60 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Fried Summer or Cream Squash 

Cut squash in thin sHces. Dip in egg and bread crumbs. For 
seasoning put plenty of salt and pepper into the beaten egg. Then 
fry the slices as you would fry egg plant in Crisco or bacon grease. 

Helen Adams Bright (Rho). 



Baked Tomatoes 

Remove skins from large, firm ripe tomatoes. Halve and roll in 
flour. Place in pan in which a generous amount of bacon drippings 
have been heated. Salt and pepper tomatoes well and drop one-half 
teaspoon butter on center of each one. Le^ brown in brisk oven. 

Lilhan Moore Coffin (Tau Zeta). 



Baked Tomatoes 

Remove stem end from six medium sized tomatoes. Take out 
most of pulp, sprinkle inside of tomatoes with salt and invert for a 
few minutes. Cook three tablespoons of butter with six tablespoons 
of chopped green pepper for five minutes. Add three-fourths of a 
cup of stale bread crumbs, one-half cup tomato pulp, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt, a httle pepper and a few drops of onion juice. Fill 
tomatoes with mixture, put in buttered pan, sprinkle tops with 
buttered crumbs and bake fifteen minutes in hot oven. 

Marguerite Tupper Way (Lambda Nu). 



Fried Tomatoes 

Slice tomatoes rather thick, salt, dip each slice in beaten egg, then 
roll in cracker crumbs until covered. Fry in plent}^ of butter, turn- 
ing on both sides, until browned. Remove tomatoes to a platter. 
Add more butter to spider and make thick gravy with flour and milk. 
Pour this over the tomatoes on platter. 

Marie Weesner (Kappa). 



VEGETABLES 61 

Stuffed Tomatoes 
6 tomatoes 

2 tablespoons chopped ham 
1 teaspoon butter 

1 cup bread crumbs 
Yi onion, chopped fine 
salt and pepper to taste 
Scoop out the pulp of the tomatoes and mix with other ingre- 
dients. Fill the tomato shells, sprinkle the top with cracker crumbs 
and bake one-half hour in moderate oven. 

E. Winifred Jewell (Chi). 

Turkish Rolls (Without Meat) 

Save the large green outside leaves of a cabbage. To one cup of 
tender boiled rice, add three tablespoons melted butter, salt and 
paprika to taste, and one-fourth cup chopped walnut meats. Bread 
crumbs are a nice addition. Put one tablespoon of this mixture in 
the center of each cabbage leaf. Fold the leaf over to make a square 
packet and tie with cord. Drop into a kettle of boiling water. Cook 
one-half hour, then lift out on a perforated spoon. Set the rolls in a 
greased baking dish, cover with crumbs and a cream sauce and 
brown. The sauce may be made of the water in which the rolls were 
boiled. 

Dorothy Watkins (Kappa). 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 
3^2 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon lemon juice pepper 

Unsigned. 



SALADS 
Fruit Salads 

Fruit Salad 

Make plain lemon jello moulds, one for each person, and cover 
just before serving with following dressing: Beat yolks of four eggs 
very light, then add four beaten whites, one cup powdered sugar, 
juice of two lemons, one-half teaspoon salt. Mix thoroughly and 
cook until thick in double boiler, add eight marshmallows, and beat, 
then cool. Slice pineapple and oranges and drain well and add to 
above just before serving. 

Julia B. Gould (Lambda). 

Fruit Salad 

1 pound white grapes 
1 can white cherries 
1 can sliced pineapple 
4 bananas 

14: pound shelled pecans 
small bottle maraschino cherries 
Add one-half pint whipped cream to fruit salad dressing. Serves 
twelve or fourteen people. 

Lois T. Pennock (Lambda). 

Fruit Salad 

}/2 cup pecans 

14, pound marshmallows, cut in pieces 
1 pound Malaga grapes, seeded 
1 pint whipped cream 
1 pint canned pineapple 
Combine the ingredients fifteen minutes before using. This vnixy 
also be served as a dessert with cakes. 

Jessie Ware Libby (Lambda). 

62 



SALADS 63 



Fruit Salad 



Place a slix^e of Hawaiian pineapple on a lettuce leaf and spread 
with a thin coating of soft cream cheese. Cut Spanish peppers into 
long thin strips and place on the top of pineapple, radiating from the 
center. Put a large teaspoon of fruit salad dressing in the center of 
the pineapple. Eleanor Dickinson Tate (Lambda Nu). 

Fruit Salad 

4 oranges 3 bananas 

white grapes (add red sour cherries or pineapple if desired) 
3^ pound English walnuts 
Serve with dressing. Louella Cordier (Theta). 

Fruit Salad 

1 pound Malaga grapes 

2 grape fruit 

1 pint preserved pineapple 
1 pound English walnut meats 

Elsie Manville (Rho Sigma). 

Banana Salad 

3^ cup sugar 3^ cup walnut meats 

}/2 cup water 5 or 6 bananas 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 
Boil sugar and water to the soft ball stage. Add lemon juice and 
cool a little. Cut the bananas in half, crosswise, and roll in syrup, 
then in chopped nuts and put on lettuce. Serve with French dressing 
or mayonnaise. Mrs. Thomas R. Woodrow (Phi Omega). 

Brazilian Salad 

Cut white grapes in halves lengthwise and remove seeds. Add 
equal quantities of shredded pineapple, apple finely cut and cut 
celery. Add one-fourth quantity Brazil nuts, broken into pieces. 
Mix thoroughly and season with lemon juice. Moisten with cream 
mayonnaise or cream dressing. 

Grace Johnston (Omicron). 



64 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

White Cherry Salad 

1 can large white cherries 1 grapefruit 

2 slices pineapple 2 oranges 

Cover with mayonnaise into which whipped cream has been 
beaten. Ina Firkins (Lambda). 

Cucumber and Pineapple Salad 

1 envelope gelatine (Knox) Yi cup sugar 

yi cup cold water 3^ cup nuts 

1 teaspoon salt juice of 1 lemon 

1 cup boiling water 
1 cup canned pineapple, cut in pieces 
1 cucumber, cut in 34 iiich cubes 
Serve with mayonnaise. 

Mary Moody Curran (Xi). 

Gelatine Salad 

1 large apple 1 pimento 

1 orange juice of 1 lemon 

1 grape fruit 1 cup sugar 

1 cup shredded cabbage 1 cup vinegar 

1 green pepper 
Soak one-half box Knox's gelatine in one-half cup water. Put 
sugar, vinegar and lemon on stove and let it come to a boil, then add 
the gelatine. Pour one-half of this mixture over the finely cut fruit 
and when this has set a little pour over the rest. Cool. 

Helen Gage (Sigma). 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Pulp of 2 grape gruit, cut fine 
3^ pound stoned dates 
Y2 pound pecans 
Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. F. R. Wooster (Rho). 



SALADS 06 

Grape Fruit Salad 

1 cup grape fruit, pulp and juice 
juice of one lemon 

2 level teaspoons Knox's gelatine, dissolved in 34 cup cold 

water 
Pour over this mixture one and one-half cups boiling water. 
Sweeten to taste. (It is more delicious when a trifle tart.) Place in 
wet moulds. This recipe makes about one pint. For dressing use 
mayonnaise mixed with a little whipped cream. 

Grace Stilwell Boswell (Lambda). 

Grape Fruit and White Grape Salad 

2 grape fruit, white grapes, French dressing, water cress or 
parsley. 
Halve the grape fruit evenly to keep the cases intact. Remove 
the fruit and separate the pulp from the white covering. Use an 
equal portion of white grapes, seed and mix with the grapefruit. 
Let stand for thirty minutes in French dressing before serving. 
Fill the grapefruit shells with the fruit and lay about them sprigs 
of water cress or parsley. 

Esther Wakefield (Zeta). 

Lemon Jello Salad 

1 package lemon jello Yi pint stuffed olives 

2 cups boiling water 3^ cup pecans 

Mix water and jello and pour into moulds. Cut olives in thin 
slices on top of liquid, then sprinkle over with broken pecans. Chill 
and when ready to serve remove from moulds by applying warm cloth 
to bottom of mould. Serve with salad dressing. 

Eva McFarland (Nu). 

Muskmelon Salad " 

Cut the melon into dice and mix with French dressing. Serve 
in halved shells and garnish with green cherries. 

Jean Sharpe (Xi). 



66 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Salad a la Normandy 

Pare and core five nice apples, must have fine flavor. Cut into 
Julian shapes (which are about the size of matches), and dress with 
oil, lemon juice, one cup whipped cream, salt and paprika. Serve on a 
bed of watercress. Sprinkle with minced English walnuts. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Peach Salad 

Buy halved canned peaches. Drain juice from them. Take one 
small package of Blue Label cheese, mixed with a httle cream to soften, 
add chopped walnuts and salt to taste. Fill the center of halves with 
the cheese, using two halves for a person. Serv^ on head lettuce and 
cover with boiled mayonnaise. 

LilHan Smith BurweU (Lambda). 

Pear Salad 

Arrange pear halves (fresh or canned) on beds of crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

Fill seed cavities with Bar le Due red currants and serve with 
French dressing. 

Edith Shively Wegeng (Iota). 

Stuffed Pear Salad 

Chill and drain halves of canned pears. Place three on each 
plate of crisp lettuce leaves. Prepare a mixture of cream cheese, 
beaten and thinned with a little cream, and chopped walnuts. 
Season with a little salt and fill cavities of pears. Serve with cream 
mayonnaise or whipped cream with boiled dressing mixed with it. 

Marguerite T. Way (Lambda Nu). 

Pineapple Tomato 

Arrange lettuce on plates, place one shoe canned pineapple on each, 
one slice of ripe tomato on each slice of pineapple and a spoonful of 
salad dressing on each. 

Finish with a cherry or ohve on dressing, if desired. 

Unsigned. 



SALADS 67 

Pineapple Salad 

1 can sliced pineapple 
1 jar pimento cheese or cream cheese 
3^ pound English walnuts 
Arrange pineapple on plates garnished with lettuce. Serve with 
mayonnaise dressing and cheese balls, made from the cheese and 
nuts. Maraschino cherries may be added to plates if desired. 

Ethel S. Hamilton (Chi). 

Pineapple-Cheese Salad 

Drain pineapple well and place each slice on lettuce leaf. Cover 
with grated cheese and add French dressing. Boiled salad dressing 
may be used. In which case cover the pineapple with boiled salad 
dressing mixed with whipped cream and sprinkle the grated cheese 
over the top. Florence Thorpe (Lambda). 

Pineapple and Marshmallow Salad 

Drain and cut up one can (large size) of shced pineapple. Add one- 
half pound marshmallows cut in quarters. Let stand six hours with 
one cup whipped sour cream and two tablespoons salad dressing 
mixed. When ready to serve add blanched ahnonds cut up, and 
mix with one-half cup sweet whipped cream. 

Florence Thorpe (Lambda). 

Prune Salad 
Arrange on lettuce leaf four or five cooked prunes in which nuts 
have been substituted for the stones. Serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. Hazel Bisbee (Pi). 

Tomato Pineapple Salad 
Peel medium sized tomatoes, remove thin sHce from top of 
each, take out seeds and some pulp. Sprinkle inside with salt, 
invert and let stand thirty minutes. Fill tomatoes with pineapple 
cut into small cubes, and English walnuts, using two-thirds pine- 
apple and one-third nuts, mixed with mayonnaise. Serve on 
lettuce leaves, with mayonnaise and wafers. 

Irene Gould (Nu). 



68 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

White Salad 

1 can sliced pineapple, cut in pieces 

1 pound white grapes, halved and seeded 

1 pound almonds, blanched and chopped 
3^ pound marshmallows, cut in quarters 

Dressing: Cook one cup milk, yolks of four eggs, pinch of salt 
and mustard just to a custard. When cold, add juice of one lemon 
and a cup of stiffly whipped cream. Mix with other ingredients and 
let stand at least twelve hours before serving. 

Edith Steele McGregor (Pi). 

Frozen Salad No. 1 

Take any canned fruit such as pineapple, apricots, peaches or 
cherries and oranges, bananas and white grapes. 

Cut the fruit in small pieces as for any fruit salad. To two 
portions of oil mayonnaise take one portion of whipped cream, mix 
thoroughly with the fruit. Pack in freezer with ice and rock salt 
and freeze the same as mousse, allowing it to stand four or five 
hours. All or any combination of the above fruits may be used. 

Serve on lettuce leaves. This is a salad and dessert combined. 
Leulah Judson Hawley (Lambda Nu). 

Frozen Salad No. 2 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

2 egg yolks, well beaten 3^ teaspoon paprika 
33^ tablespoons sugar A httle cayenne 

3 tablespoons flour Add % cup of milk 
3/2 teaspoon salt % cup vinegar heated 

Mix these ingredients in the order given. 

Cook until thick, then cool. Add one cup of cream whipped and 
one large cup of fruit. Peaches, maraschino cherries, pineapple, 
oranges and bananas make a delicious combination of fruits. 

Pack in freezer and freeze the same as mousse, letting it stand 
four or five hours. 

Serve on lettuce as salad and dessert. 

Julia Bearnes Gould (Lambda Nu). 



SALADS 69 

Vegetable Salads 

Adirondack Salad 

3 tablespoons canned peas 
3 tablespoons diced cheese 
3 tablespoons diced onions 
3 tablespoons Heinze sweet cucumber pickles 
Mix with salad dressing which is not too sweet. 

Edna Kendall Crawford (Sigma). 

Asparagus Salad 

Cut narrow rings from bright red peppers, place three or four 
asparagus stalks through two or three of these rings. Serve on 
lettuce leaves with either kind of salad dressing. 

Florence F. Thorpe (Lambda). 

Bean Salad 

1 can kidney beans 1 cup chopped pickle 

1 cup chopped celer}^ 2 cups onion 

Cover with mayonnaise. 

Hannah Book (Theta). 



Bean Salad 

Use recipe for German potato salad, substituting cold boiled 
string beans for potatoes. 

Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda Nu). 



Beet Salad 

4 small beets, chopped fine 1 tablespoon Knox's gelatine 

Yi cup of weak vinegar 3 teaspoons corn starch 

yi cup water 5 teaspoons sugar 

Make a jelly, add chopped beets and mold in small cups. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with salad dressing. Will serve four. 

Josephine Cleaver (Eta). 



70 ■ DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Beet Salad 

Dress cubes of cooked beets and chopped olives with French 
dressing.] j Hazel Bisbcc (Pi). 

Celery Relish 
To one-half box of Knox's gelatine, add enough cold water from 
one pint to cover. Let stand twenty minutes. Heat remainder of 
pint to boiling, pour over gelatine, add juice of two lemons and 
one-half cup sugar; cool. Add one tablespoon horse radish and dash 
of cayenne pepper. Color a light green with vegetable coloring. 
When almost ready to set, stir in one cup of finely cut celery. Pour 
into moulds to harden. Nelle Stinchfield Braasch (Lambda). 

Cheese and Pimento Salad 
Chop pimento olives fine, mix with a soft cream cheese and 
form into balls. Serve in nests of head lettuce with oil mayonnaise. 

Clara Bearnes Haskins (Lambda). 

Cucumber Jelly 
1 cucumber 1 teaspoon salt 

Y2 cup celery 1 pinch cayenne 

1 small onion Y^ teaspoon pepper 

Chop cucumber, celery, onion. Add seasoning and some leaves 
of parsley pulled to bits (not chopped). Add one teaspoon Knox's 
gelatine dissolved in one-half cup hot water. Pour in small moulds 
and serve with meats or luncheon dishes. 

]Mrs. J. H. Long (Sigma). 

Cucumber Jelly 
3 large cucumbers 1 level tablespoon capers 

3 or 4 tomatoes 4 tablespoons vinegar 

2 green peppers salt and pinch of black 
2 or 3 canned red peppers pepper 

1 box Knox's gelatine 
Put the cucumbers, tomatoes and peppers, through meat chopper. 
Cut up the canned peppers with the scissors. Set in fancy mould. 

Ethel Richter Megeath (Lambda). 



SALADS 71 

Cucumber Salad 

Pare a good sixed cucumber and with a sharp pointed knife 
cut five parallel grooves lengthwise of the cucumber at equal dis- 
tances. Then cut the cucumber into thin slices crosswise, keeping 
the cucumber in original shape. Arrange on lettuce leaf and serve 
with Parisian French dressing. An excellent relish to serve with 
fish course. 

Eleanor Dickinson Tate (Lambda Nu). 

Egyptian Salad 

Cut out inside of tomatoes after peeling. To this add equal 
amount of cucumber. Season with salt, vinegar, oil, onion, and 
chopped parsley. Fill tomatoes and serve with mayonnaise. 

Mildred Lawrence (Alpha Delta). 

Gelatine Salad 

Into one pint boiling water put a blade of mace, a bit of bay leaf, 
one-half dozen pepper corns, one slice onion, one-half teaspoon 
celery salt. Cook twenty minutes. Strain and add to the liquid 
three-fourths box of Knox's gelatine softened in a little cold water. 
Strain again and add four tablespoons vinegar. Pour into mould 
with slice of cucumber. Serve with mayonnaise. 

Leulah Hawlcy (Lambda). 

Green Pepper Salad 

Soften cream cheese by mixing it with about one-third amount 
of butter which you have of cheese. To the cheese, add nuts, chopped 
fine, and chopped pimento and a little onion or chive. Cut off the 
tops of the green peppers and scoop out all the inside. Pack the 
cheese into the peppers and place in the refrigerator to cool. When 
the cheese has hardened again you will be able to slice the peppers 
rather thin. Serve with lettuce and French dressing or with cucum- 
bers which have been soaked for an hour in French dressing. Two 
large peppers or three small ones will serve six people. Be sure to 
use the sweet, not the hot green peppers. 

Ethel Rockwood (Lambda). 



72 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Harvard Salad 

2 large cups diced celery 6 minced olives 

Y2 dozen chopped radishes 1 small cup nut meats 

2 diced hard boiled eggs 
Blend ingredients well and moisten with mayonnaise dressing; 
arrange in tiny mounds in nests of head lettuce. Pour over each 
portion one tablespoon of the dressing. Garnish with grated egg 
yolk and triangles of pickled beet. 

Helen Berkman Judd (Lambda). 

Jellied Vegetable 

Soak one tablespoon Knox's gelatine in one-fourth cup cold water. 
Dissolve in one cup of boiling water, add one-fourth cup each of 
sugar and vinegar, two tablespoons lemon juice, one teaspoon salt 
and a few whole cloves. When cool strain and add one-half can of 
refugee beans, whole, two or three pimentoes cut in pieces, and chill 
in a mould. 

Delicious with hearty meats. 

Theodora Carpenter (Lambda). 

Normandy Salad 

1 cup canned peas 1 cup chopped celer}^ 

Y2 cup English walnuts 
Mix together with French dressing and serve on head lettuce. 
Will serve six or eight people. 

Alcetta Gilbert Clarke (Lambda). 

Perfection Salad 

($100 Prize Recipe) 

1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine 

3^2 cup cold water 1 pint boiling water 

Yi cup mild vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup finely shredded cabbage Y cup sugar 
juice of 1 lemon 

2 cups celery, cut in small pieces 
Y can sweet red peppers, finely cut 



SALADS 73 

Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes; add vinegar, lemon 
juice, boiling water, sugar and salt. Strain and when beginning to 
set add remaining ingredients. Turn into a mould and chill. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing, or cut in dice and 
serve in cases made of red or green peppers, or the mixture may be 
shaped in moulds lined with pimentoes. A delicious accompaniment 
to cold sliced chicken or veal. Charles B. Knox Co. 

Poinsettia Salad 

Remove the peel from large, firm, red tomatoes in boiling water. 
Set on ice to chill. When ready to serve, cut them into segments from 
flower end to stem end. Remove the seeds. Set each tomato on a 
bed of lettuce or endive. Fill the center of the tomato with chopped 
celery and hard boiled egg, mixed with rather stiff mayonnaise or 
boiled salad dressing. Grace Stilwell Boswell (Lambda). 

Potato Salad 

Use equal parts of finely chopped potatoes and celery. Add 
finely chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste. Serve with mayon- 
naise or boiled dressing. Vera Cordonnier (Rho). 

German Potato Salad 

Fry three slices of bacon very crisp and cut in small cubes. 
Make a sauce by mixing one even teaspoon of flour in the hot fat 
until smooth, and then add diluted cider vinegar. Pour over sliced 
boiled potatoes. Add bacon, chopped onions, salt and pepper to 
taste. Serve hot. Alice Christopher Browne (Sigma). 

Potato and Egg Salad 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in one-fourth inch cubes. Have two 
cups. Add one cup shredded cabbage, three hard boiled eggs, 
finely chopped, two tablespoons of chopped pickles, two tablespoons 
green peppers, finely chopped, a little chopped parsley and a few 
drops of onion juice. Moisten with a cream salad dressing and 
serve on crisp lettuce. Marguerite T. Way (Lambda). 



74 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Salad Russe 

Turn into a bowl a half box of Knox's gelatine and cover with 
cold water, soak for two hours. Bring a pint of cleared and seasoned 
chicken or veal stock to the boiling point. Stir in the soaked gelatine 
and when this is dissolved, add a large tablespoon of vinegar and a 
small wine glass full of sherry, strain, pour into a border mould 
and set on the ice until firm. Cut into dice two cold boiled carrots, 
two cold boiled beets, a dozen cold boiled asparagus tips, four stalks 
of celery and one-half cup cold cooked peas. Mix all together 
and cover with a dressing made of six tablespoons of salad oil, two of 
vinegar, one teaspoon onion juice and salt and pepper to taste. Let 
vegetables be in this dressing in the ice box for an hour, drain. 
Turn the border of jelly out on a chilled platter, put the vegetables 
in the center of the platter and cover with a thick jelly-like mayon- 
naise. Serve at once or keep upon ice until wanted. 

Ida Ward Lentillon (Omicron). 

Spanish Pepper Salad 

Dissolve Y2 box Knox's gelatine in 

Y2 cup cold water and Y2 cup vinegar, add 

Y2 cup sugar scant teaspoon salt 

juice of 1 lemon 1 cup boiling water 

Mix with six canned pimentoes, cut into small pieces, two cups 
chopped celery and one cup shelled pecans. 

Harden in individual moulds, serving with mayonnaise. This 
will serve twelve persons. 

Winifred Sherman Updike (Kappa). 

Tomatoes en Surprise 

Peel good solid tomatoes and remove seeds and core. 
Fill with sardines or sahnon, and squeeze in a Httle lemon juice. 
Turn the tomato upside down on a nest of crisp lettuce, and 
put on top of each a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing. 

Florence A. Dicldnson (Lambda Nu). 



SALADS 75 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

2J/2 cups strained tomato 2 pepper corns 

4 teaspoons Knox's gelatine 2 pimentoes 

3^ cup cold water 
2 slices onion 
Soak gelatine in cold water. Mix and cook ten minutes remaining 
ingredients except pimentoes. Remove from fire, add gelatine and 
strain into individual moulds onto pimentoes sliced. Serve on 
lettuce leaf with mayonnaise. 

Agnes Claypoole Moody (Chi). 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

1 can Van Camp's clear tomato soup 

1 can clear bouillon 4 whole pepper corns 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 cloves 1 teaspoon catsup 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
Y2 package Knox's gelatine 

Soften gelatine by pouring a little cold water over it. Boil 
together all other ingredients, ohe-half hour or less. Then stir in 
gelatine. Pour into a mould wet with cold water. When hard, cut 
into squares and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

Mary Bogue (Gamma). 

Vegetable Gelatine 

Y2 package Knox's gelatine Y2 cup vinegar 

Y2 cup water 3^ teaspoon salt 

juice of 1 lemon 3^ pint boiling water 

Y2 cup sugar 

2 cups chopped cabbage 

1 cup chopped celery 

2 green peppers or canned pimentoes 

Soak the gelatine in one-half cup cold water and dissolve it in 
one-half pint of boiling water; then add vinegar, lemon juice, sugar 
and salt. When the mixture begins to thicken, fold in the cabbage, 
celery and pimentoes. Turn into. a mould and chill. 

Mary Malcomson (Xi). 



76 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Canned Cucumber Salad 

Peel and slice 1 gallon of cucumbers 
Four large onions sliced thin 
1 quart vinegar 
4 dessert spoons mustard 
1 cup flour 
1 cup white sugar 
1 teaspoon turmeric 
Salt cucumbers and let stand four hours. Drain well. Put 
vinegar in kettle, add flour, sugar, mustard, turmeric and sliced 
onions. Let cook until tender. Dampen cucumbers in cold vinegar. 
Put into boiling mixture and cook five minutes. Seal in fruit jars. 
Keep in a cool dark place. 

Serve on lettuce without salad dressing. 

Aileen Belyea Critchett (Lambda Nu). 

Meat Salads 
Cheese Salad 

1 pound cream cheese 
}/2 can pimento 

6 pickles chopped 
6 eggs hard boiled and chopped 
Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 

This may be molded into balls and served as cheese balls with 
pie. Good sandwich filler also. 

Louise Riggs (Theta). 

Chicken Salad 

2 cups cold chicken Y2 cup chopped ohves 
1 cup celery 2 hard boiled eggs 

Y2 cup walnuts or blanched almonds 
Mix with mayonnaise, using the eggs chopped in the salad or 
quartered as a garnish. 

Margaret Van Bergen (Lambda Nu). 



SALADS 77 

Jellied Fish Salad 

Use any cold fish. Soak one-fourth box of Knox's gelatine in 
one-fourth cup of cold water, then dissolve in a cup of hot stock. 
Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice and mix with an equal 
quantity of cold boiled fish or canned fish. Decorate molds with 
shce of pimento or hard boiled eggs and put in fish mixture. Serve 
with mayonnaise. 

Marguerite T. Way (Lambda). 

Salmon Relish Salad 

1 pound of salmon, boiled and picked to pieces when cold 

2 hard boiled eggs, chopped fine 
2 tablespoons mayonnaise 

1 small bunch of celery, chopped fine 
Pack in moulds, chill, serve on lettuce leaf with Russian 
dressing. Tuna fish may be used in place of salmon. 

Marguerite Dauson Winant (Omicron). 

Tuna Salad 

1 small can tuna fish 3^ cup pimento 

1 cucumber 1 cup mayonnaise 

Y2 dozen chopped olives 
This salad may be varied by using celery instead of cucumber, 
and adding cooked string beans. 



Ina Firkins (Lambda). 



Veal Salad 



2 cups cold veal, diced pepper 

1 cup celery 4 tablespoons olive oil 

3 hard boiled eggs 13^ tablespoon vinegar 
Y2 teaspoon salt mayonnaise dressing 

Chop eggs rather coarsely and combine with celery, oil, vinegar, 
seasonings. Let stand thirty minutes. Then add mayonnaise. 
Arrange salad on lettuce leaf. Serve with cheese balls. 

Josephine Moyle (Alpha Zeta Rho). 



78 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Veal Salad 

2 pounds lean veal 2 heads celery 
1 can pimentoes 1 head lettuce 

3 hard boiled eggs a few pickles or olives 
Cook the veal until very tender and cut up carefully. Be sure 

to get out all fat and gristle. Have everything ready but do not 
mix until half hour before serving. Mix well with mayonnaise. 
Will serve ten or twelve. 

Bessie Gates (Beta). 

Salad Dressings 
Garnish for Salads or Meats 

An attractive garnish for salads or cold meats is made by boihng 
eggs hard, cutting in slices when cold and removing yolks. Through 
these rings draw small bits of bleached celery leaves, sprigs of parsley 
or crisp lettuce. 

Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda). 

Cheese Straws 

y^ pound grated cheese whites of 2 eggs 

34 pound butter pinch of salt 

Y2 pound flour httle water 

Cream flour and cheese, adding other ingredients. Roll very 
thin and cut into straws. Bake until a golden brown. 

Mrs. Mary Comfort Leonard (Founder). 

Cheese Straws 

1 cup grated cheese % cup flour 

1 cup fresh bread crumbs 2 tablespoons milk 

y% teaspoon pepper 34 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 
Cream butter, add flour, crumbs and grated cheese, add season- 
ings, mix thoroughly, then add milk. Roll one-fourth inch thick, 
cut one-fourth inch wide and six inches long. Bake until brown in 
moderate oven. Serve with green salad. 

Grace Johnston (Omicron). 



SALADS 79 

Cheese Dates 

Remove the stones from firm dates. Fill with Blue Label cheese, 
seasoned with salt and thinned with cream. Serve with salads. 

LilHan Smith Burwell (Lambda Nu). 

Cheese Balls 

Mix one-half cup grated American cTieese, one-third cup Rocque- 
fort, one-half cup bread crumbs, one-half teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce and one egg. Roll into balls, dip in beaten egg, and then in 
bread crumbs that have been salted and slightly peppered, and fry- 
in deep fat just before serving. Serve with salads. 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

To Serve with Salad 

L Cut celery stalks even lengths and stuff the hollow part with 
cream cheese, or a stronger kind, if preferred. 

2. Place water-thin crackers on a tin pan, with a shake of pepper 
and a dab of butter on each, and put into the oven until a pale brown. 

Edna Judson Wilde (Lambda). 

Thousand Island Dressing 

yolk of 1 egg 3^ teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice % cup olive oil 

}/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

34 teaspoon mustard 

chopped pickles, celery, onions and red peppers. 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolk and when well mixed add 
one-half teaspoon vinegar. Add oil which has been chilled and 
vinegar, alternately and slowly, beating constantly. If it curdles 
add more yolk of egg and beat. It is well to have bowl containing 
dressing in a larger bowl containing cracked ice. A dover egg beater 
may be used. When thoroughly blended add chopped pickles, 
onions, celery, and red peppers. 

Alberta Cordier (Theta). 



go DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Thousand Island Dressing 

Chop fine: 

1 green pepper 2 hard-boiled eggs 

3 pimentoes a little chives, if procurable 
Add to: 

1 pint mayonnaise 
Yi pictt chili sauce and catsup mixed 
a little grated horseradish and Worcestershire sauce 
Yi cup vinegar 
Will keep for a long time. When using, add a little fresh cream 
to quantity desired. Marion Prest (Lambda). 

Tarragon Vinegar Dressing 

To the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, add four tablespoons 
tarragon vinegar and pinch of salt. Cook in double boiler, stirring 
constantly until thickened. When ready to serve add one pint 
double cream beaten stiff. This serves twenty. 

Martha Dever Moulton (Lambda). 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 

1 cup sour cream 2 rounding teaspoons sugar 

4 eggs, or the yolks only Yz cup vinegar 
1 rounding tablespoon mustard 

salt, paprika, cayenne as desired 
Beat eggs, add cream, vinegar and other ingredients. Heat in 
double boiler until it thickens. Edith Rockwood (Lambda). 

Oil Salad Dressing 

Have everything cold. 
Cream thoroughly with fork : 

1 teaspoon mustard butter size of small egg 

1 teaspoon salt add a dash paprika 

2 teaspoons sugar 

Then add: four tablespoons oil and four tablespoons vinegar 
alternately, being sure to start with oil. When blended add one well 
beaten egg. Beat with dover beater until stiff. 

Margaret M. Jayne (Tau). 



SALADS 81 

Oil Mayonnaise 
Stir together two tablespoons flour and two tablespoons olive oil. 
Add one cup hot water and stir until smooth. Beat in the yolks of 
two eggs and cool. Squeeze one-half lemon and add enough vinegar 
to make one-fourth cup. Add one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
mustard, a little red pepper. Add this to the first mixture and 
gradually stir in one cup olive oil until smooth. 

Mariel Jones (Kappa). 

Mayonnaise 
1 teaspoon dry mustard 

34 teaspoon salt juice of Yi lemon 

1 egg 2 teaspoons oUve oil 

Have bowl and egg very cold. Beat hard with dover egg beater. 
Add two spoons of oil, beat hard, then add the oil faster till a cup 
has been used. Leonora Mann (Lambda). 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

yolks 3 hard-boiled eggs 1 cup oil 

yolks 3 raw eggs 

salt, mustard, red pepper and vinegar to taste 
Mash cooked yolks until free from lumps. Add salt, mustard and 
pepper to taste, then the yolks of the raw eggs. Beat thoroughly. 
Add oil, all at once, beating while it is being poured in. Beat until 
smooth, then add one tablespoon vinegar or more as desired. The 
beauty of this recipe is that it is not necessary to add oil drop by 
drop. Henrietta Stratton Jaquette (Xi). 

Mayonnaise Sauce 

Put the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, add one-half teaspoon 
English mustard (powdered) , a pinch of salt, a little cayenne pepper, 
and a few dashes of vinegar. Work this together with a wooden 
spoon for a minute or two, then add gradually, one-half pint of olive 
oil, pouring it in very slowly at the beginning. If the dressing gets 
too thick add a few more dashes of vinegar to it, working it all the 
time vigorously so as to obtain a thick sauce at last. Finish with the 
juice of one-half a lemon. Keep in a cool place. 

Marion Brest (Lambda). 



82 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Mayonnaise Dressing (Reliable) 
yolks of 2 eggs 2 tablespoons boiling water 

3^ teaspoon salt 1 cup olive oil 

3^ teaspoon mustard lemon juice or vinegar 

Beat yolks of eggs. Add salt, and mustard to taste. Add boiling 
water. Add olive oil, at first drop by drop, beating constantly. 
Finally add juice of one lemon or less, according to taste. Vinegar 
may be used. The mixture will thicken when about three-fourths of 
a cup of oil has been beaten in. 

Ethel Rockwood Phillips (Lambda). 

Mayonnaise 

1 tablespoon corn starch 3^ cup lemon juice 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg yolk 

Y2 cup cold water 1 cup olive oil 

Cook corn starch, salt, water and lemon juice in double boiler 
until thick and clear. Cool, add beaten yolk and oil. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda). 

Mayonnaise (Cooked) 

3 small tablespoons flour }/i cup vinegar 

3 small tablespoons oil, mixed ^ cup water 
Cook the above until it boils and becomes a thick mass — then 
add it gradually to the beaten yolks of three eggs, beating con- 
stantly while adding. Add one tablespoon boiling water, add drop 
by drop one cup of oil beating constantly. Season with lemon, 
mustard, etc. Gail H. Luther (Lambda). 

Mayonnaise 

1 egg yolk 

3^ teaspoon salt juice of 3^ lemon 

34 teaspoon mustard }/2 pint ohve oil 

Have oil, bowl and egg ice-cold before mixing. Stir dry ingre- 
dients into egg. Add the oil drop by drop, stirring constantly. 
When oil is half used, add a little lemon juice to thin. Then stir in 
alternately, the remaining oil and lemon juice. 

Unsigned. 



SALADS 83 



Golden Salad Dressing 

34 cup pineapple juice }/^ cup sugar 

14: cup lemon juice pinch of salt 

2 whole eggs, beaten 

Mix and boil two minutes. Use on fruit salads. 



Eva McFarland (Nu). 



Fruit Salad Dressing 

3 tablespoons lemon juice ^ cup sugar 

1 whole egg, 1 egg yolk 
Beat egg stiff, add sugar and beat again, add lemon juice. Cook 
in double boiler until thick, stir constantly. Add one-half pint cream 
whipped. 

Lois T. Pennock (Lambda). 



Fruit Salad Dressing 

4 tablespoons pineapple juice 
4 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 tablespoon sugar 

2 eggs, yolks and whites separated. 

Mix pineapple, lemon juice and sugar. After having beaten the 
yolks and whites separately, add to mixture. Then boil slowly for 
five minutes. When cool fold in one cup whipped cream. 

Esther Pearson (Nu). 



French Parisian Dressing 

To the usual French dressing add: 
3/^ teaspoon sugar 
1 tablespoon finely chopped onion 
1 tablespoon finety chopped parsley 
1 tablespoon finely chopped Spanish red pepper 

Eleanor Dickinson Tate (Lambda Nu). 



84 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

French Dressing 

3/2 cup strained lione}^ or maple syrup 
yolks 2 eggs juice 2 lemons 

1 tablespoon sugar Yi cup whipped cream 

Beat yolks, add honey, sugar and lemon juice. Cook in double 
boiler. Cool and add whipped cream just before serving. 

Unsigned. 

French Dressing 

3 tablespoons olive oil }/i teaspoon salt 

13^2 tablespoons vinegar Y% teaspoon Rosa paprika 

Mix the salt and paprika in a cup, add a tablespoon of oil. Mix 
well, then add half of the vinegar, a little at a time, blend and add the 
remainder of the oil and vinegar alternately. 

Mary R. Book (Pi). 

French Dressing 

Put all in a mason jar and shake well: 

Yi cup oil 2 tablespoons grated onion 

Y cup vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

Y cup catsup . 1 teaspoon paprika 
juice Y2 lemon 2 scant tablespoons sugar 

Julia B. Gould (Lambda). 

French Dressing 

1 tablespoon sugar Yi teaspoon salt 

Y2 teaspoon mustard Y teaspoon paprika 

small clove of garlic or Y of onion grated 
Yi cup olive oil 

2 teaspoons vinegar (Cross and Blackwell's) 

Mix dry ingredients and add oil slowly. Beat until thoroughly 
mixed and add vinegar. 

Nell B. Cochran (Chi Sigma). 



SALADS 85 

Chiffonade Dressing 

yolk of 1 egg 1 hard-boiled egg 

1 cup oil Yi cup chili sauce 

yi cup vinegar 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 green pepper Yi teaspoon salt 

2 pimentoes 1 tablespoon sugar 
12 olives or sour pickles 

Beat yolk, add oil and vinegar. Put seasoning into this. Grind 
pepper, pimento, olives, boiled egg. Beat into oil mixture. Add 
chili sauce. Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Shred crisp cabbage and add pecan meats. Serve with French 
dressing on a lettuce leaf. Paprika adds color and attractiveness. 

Marguerite Stanley (Xi). 

Boiled Mayonnaise 

Y2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon mustard ^^ tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon melted butter yolks 2 eggs 

% cup milk 
Y cup vinegar 
Mix dry ingredients together, add the beaten yolks, butter and 
milk. Cook in a double boiler, pouring in the vinegar a little at a 
time. Stir constantly until the mayonnaise thickens. Thin with 
cream as used. Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda). 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

3 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

Yi teaspoon mustard 1 cup weak vinegar 

Stir over fire until thick and smooth the dry ingredients and 
vinegar, then add the eggs well beaten. When cold, thin with rich 
cream. 

Gertrude Darrow Chubb (Lambda). 



86 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

To each egg yolk used take one tablespoon of vinegar. 
To four egg yolks use the following proportions of seasoning : 
1 tablespoon sugar }/i teaspoon mustard 

Yi teaspoon salt 
Beat ingredients together, then boil over water until thick. 
After removing from stove, add one teaspoon butter. 
This dressing will be very thick. When used, thin to desired 
consistency with cream, whipped or thin, or with plain milk. For 
fruit salads use whipped cream, for meats and vegetables, use milk 
or thin cream. This dressing, if kept in a cool place will keep 
perfectly for several weeks. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda). 



LUNCHEON DISHES 

Apples Stuffed with Sausage 

Core desired number of baking apples and fill with sausage meat. 
Bake in a moderate oven until tender. Serve on buttered toast. 

Marguerite Tupper Way (Lambda Nu). 

Boudans 

Melt one tablespoon butter and add two tablespoons bread 
crumbs and one-half cup stock, milk or hot water. Stir until it boils. 
Take from fire and add two cups chicken or beef, a little parsley, 
nutmeg, salt and pepper and last, two well beaten eggs. Mix thor- 
oughly and fill cups two-thirds full with this mixture and bake in 
moderate oven twenty minutes. Set in pan of hot water while 
baking. Lenora Mann (Lambda). 

Chicken a la King 

Melt two tablespoons butter in a frying pan, add one cup mush- 
rooms broken fine, one-half green pepper, cut fine, cook three or four 
minutes. Add two level tablespoons flour and one-half teaspoon salt, 
cook until frothy. Then add one pint cream and stir until sauce 
thickens. Place over hot water and add three cups of finely chopped 
cooked chicken. Cover and let stand to become very hot. Cream 
one-fourth cup butter, the yolks of three eggs, one teaspoon of 
onion juice, one tablespoon lemon juice and one-half teaspoon paprika. 
Stir this into chicken mixture and continue stirring until egg thickens. 

Leulah Hawley (Lambda Nu). 

Chicken Crustades 

• 1 cup diced chicken 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup milk celery salt 

Yi cup chicken broth salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon butter 
Heat butter and stir in flour. Add broth and milk with celery 
salt, salt and pepper to taste. When this cream sauce is thoroughly 

87 



88 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

cooked and smooth, add the diced chicken. Pimentoes and mush- 
rooms may be added if desired. Cut four bread boxes 2 inches by- 
two and one-half inches by three inches and scoop out center. Butter 
the outside and brown in oven. Fill the boxes with creamed chicken 
and serve hot. This amount serves four. 

Jane Cheney Landmesser (Chi). 

Chicken Wiggle 
1 small can chicken 1 tablespoon flour 

Yi can sifted peas 1 pint milk 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Put butter, flour and salt into a double boiler, blend together, add 
milk. When this mixture becomes as thick as cream, add the chicken 
and peas. Mary R. Book (Pi). 

Cheese and Bacon 

Mix 1 package of snappy cheese 
1 egg, beaten pinch mustard 

dash paprika 
Spread on four whole slices of bread and lay two strips of bacon 
on top of each slice. Broil quickly in gas oven. 

Theodora Carpenter (Lambda). 

Cheese Balls 
1 cup grated cheese salt to taste 

Y2 cup bread crumbs paprika 

3^ teaspoon mustard 1 egg 

Mould into balls, roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry golden 
brown in deep fat. Will make eight balls size of butter balls. 

Cheese Balls 
\y2 cups grated cheese little pepper 

3^ teaspoon salt whites of 3 eggs, well beaten 

Beat eggs stiff, beat in lightly the grated cheese, add salt and 
pepper. 

Roll into balls the size of a hickory nut in the hollow of your hand, 
then roll in the crumbs and drop into hot lard, fry brown. Drain 
and serve hot, garnish with parsley. Isabel Hoover (Iota). 



LUNCHEON DISHES 89 

Cheese Cones 

1 cream cheese brick chopped EngUsh walnuts 

Y2 as much butter, creamed chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon onion juice 
Shape in cones, garnish with whole walnuts and parsley. 

Ruth H. Gates (Sigma). 

Cheese Croquettes 
1 heaping cup grated cheese 1 cup cream 

1 scant tablespoon mustard Y2 teaspoon salt 

2 potatoes, mashed yolks of 2 eggs 
dash red pepper 

butter size of small egg, rubbed with 1 tablespoon flour 
Boil all together until it thickens. Pour out on a dish to cool. 
Mould, roll in egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

Helen Reef (Gamma). 

Cheese Custard 

beat up 4 eggs 4 tablespoons grated cheese 

add 1 cup boihng milk salt, pepper and red pepper 

Pour into small moulds, stirring all the time so the cheese will 
not settle; stand in pan of hot water, simmer gently until set like 
custard. Serve on rounds of bread browned in hot butter. Place a 
custard on each and brown in the oven. Trim with parsley. 

Edith Foulke (Lambda Nu). 

Cheese Dreams 

Make sandwiches of bread and sliced cheese, seasoned with a 
dash of mustard, salt and paprika. Dip sandwiches in egg, diluted 
with water, and fry in butter. Ruth Rosholt (Lambda). 

Cheese Fondue 
1 cup scalded milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup soft stale bread crumbs 3^ teaspoon salt 
1 cup grated cheese 3 eggs 

Pour scalded milk over crumbs, add cheese, salt, cayenne and 
yolks of eggs; beat and fold in whites, beaten until stiff. If crumbs 



90 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

are dry add a little more railk to make mixture well moistened when 
eggs are added. Put into a buttered baking dish and bake twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven, about fifteen minutes, if individual 
dishes are used. 

Carol Howard (Kappa). 

Cheese Relish 

4 sUces bread, cut thick, well buttered 

% pound cheese, grated or put through meat grinder 

1 pint milk 

3 eggs, beaten and stirred in the milk 
salt and pepper to taste 
Butter a baking dish, lay in shces of bread, putting cheese be- 
tween. Pour milk over and bake about twenty minutes. 

Mary Bassett Bray (Lambda). 

Cheese Souffle 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter, rubbed together 

1 cup milk 1 cup cheese, shaved 
Cook all together until mixed. Beat three eggs, separately. 

Add yolks to above mixture. Remove from fire, cool and add the 
whites. Turn into buttered baking dish and bake until brown. 

Maud Reynolds Bryant (Rho). 

Cheese Fondue 

2 cups milk • 4 eggs 

}/2 cup bread crumbs 3^ pound yellow cheese 

good pinch soda mace, salt, pepper, paprika 

Soak crumbs in milk with soda for ten minutes, then add beaten 
eggs, mace, etc. Butter the baking dish. Set dish in pan of water 
while baking. Bakeslowly for thirty minutes with cover on. Remove 
cover and brown. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 



LUNCHEON DISHES 91 

Clam Fritters 

2 dozen chopped clams 4 teaspoons baldng powder 

1 cup milk 1 cup clam juice 

Flour enough to make stiff pancake batter. Fry in frying pan. 

Pile i^ a dish putting a little butter, pepper, and salt on each cake. 

Pour over all the following sauce: 

}/2 cup clam juice butter size of walnut 

1 cup cream 

Put in saucepan with a Uttle of the above batter and cook two or 
three minutes. Bertha Wilson Carter (Rho). 

Corn Toast 

2 tablespoons minced onion, fried in bacon fat until brown 
13^ tablespoons flour added for thickening 

add 1 can corn and 1 cup milk 
Serve hot on hot toast. Enough for six. 

Ethel Rockwood Philhps (Lambda Nu). 

Corn and Tomatoes Scalloped 
A Good Luncheon Dish 
Butter a baking dish and put in alternate layers of canned corn, 
tomatoes and cracker crumbs. Season each layer lightly with salt 
and pepper or paprika. Sprinkle fine cracker crumbs and place 
thin strips of bacon over the top. Bake in the oven. Just before serv- 
ing, if the bacon has not become crisp, set it under the flame a minute 
to broil. Helen Adams Bright (Rho). 

Crab a la King 
1 pound can crab meat 3 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pint hot cream or rich milk Few grains cayenne 

3/2 bay leaf Buttered toast 

1 tablespoon diced red peppers 

}/2 tablespoon diced green peppers 
Melt the butter, add the peppers and one teaspoon chopped onion, 
if desired. Cook these in butter until tender, then add the flour and 
seasonings and gradually the milk, stirring constantly. Put in the 



92 • DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

bay leaf and let it ,stand in the sauce until it is ready to be used. 
Flake the crab meat with fork, stir carefully into hot sauce, arrange 
on toast, garnish with parsley. 

Eleanor Dickinson Tate (Lambda Nu). 

Crab Meat 
2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 1 can crab meat 

Soak crab meat in one-half cup cream for one-half hour. Make 
white sauce as for shrimp wiggle, stir in crab meat and eggs. Serve 
on toast. Frances Bragdon (Sigma). 

Creamed Eggs with Cheese 

Poach eggs. 

Make thick cream sauce with milk, flour, butter and salt. To 
one cup sauce add two tablespoons grated cheese. Cook thoroughly 
and pour over eggs. Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

English Monkey 

(For Luncheon or Supper) 
1 cup bread crumbs 1 egg 

.1 cup milk J4 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter dash of paprika 

3^ cup soft mild cheese, cut in small pieces 
Soak crumbs fifteen minutes in milk. Melt butter, add cheese. 
When cheese has melted, add soaked crumbs, egg slightly beaten and 
seasonings. Cook three minutes, serve on toasted crackers. 

Edna L. Keyes (Gamma). 

Ham and Macaroni Timbales 

Scant one-half cup macaroni broken in short pieces, cook until 
tender (about twenty minutes) . Drain in colander and let cold water 
run through. 

To one-half cup boiled ham, chopped fine, add the macaroni, 
one beaten egg, one-fourth teaspoon salt, two-thirds cup milk and a 
little butter. 

Put in well buttered ramekins (or any small moulds; gem tins 
will do). Cook until centers feel firm. Serve with tomato sauce. 
A can of Campbell's tomato soup may be used for the tomato sauce. 

Florence Schuyler Thorpe (Lambda). 



LUNCHEON DISHES 93 

Ham Trifle 

Chop one cup of cold boiled ham, three hard boiled eggs, and 
five soda crackers. Boil two cups of milk, add to this a good sized 
piece of butter and thicken with one teaspoon of flour and one 
teaspoon of dry mustard. Stir into this the chopped ham, eggs and 
crackers and add a tablespoon of minced parsley. Put in a baking 
dish and bake for one and one-half hours. 

Mae Belle Davis (Rho Sigma). 

Scalloped Ham and Eggs 

Place first a layer of cold boiled eggs then cold boiled ham chopped 
fine, in a pan. Cover with white sauce. Sprinkle with bread crumbs, 
and one tablespoon melted butter. Use one cup of ham to six eggs. 

Louella Cordier (Theta). 

Jambolaya 

Chop enough cold ham (two parts lean, one part fat) together with 
cold chicken if available, to make one cupful pressed down. Chop 
fine one medium sized onion and boil gently for one-half hour, with 
two cups tomatoes, fresh or canned. Add the chopped meat and one 
scant cup of boiled rice. Season to taste with tobasco or paprika. 
Butter a baking dish, turn in the above, patting it down with a 
spoon to make a smooth surface. Dust the top well with rolled 
cracker crumbs and bake until surface is brown. 

Marie C. Vaissade (Gamma). 

Japanese Roll 

Sift two cups of flour twice with three teaspoons of baking powder 
and one of salt. Chop into this two tablespoons of lard and one of 
butter. Moisten with milk (about one-half cup) and roll out one-half 
an inch thick into oblong shape. Spread with chopped cooked meat, 
well seasoned and moistened with stock. Roll up like jelly roll, 
brush over with milk and bake in moderate oven. 

Gertrude White (Rho Sigma). 



94 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Lima Beans and Cheese 

2 cups dried Lima beans 1 cup cheese 

2 peppers, chopped salt 

Soak beans over night. Boil until done. Bronze peppers in a 
piece of butter size of egg. Pour on beans. When well heated add 
cheese. 

Helen Adams Bright (Rho). 



Lobster a la Newberg 

^ cup sherry yolks of 3 eggs 

2 cups lobster 1 cup cream 

salt and pepper to taste 
Heat cream and add yolks gradually, stirring constantly. When 
sauce is thickened, add lobster and sherry. 

Harriet E. Watermann (Chi). 



Lunchettes 

Toast shces of bread lightly and butter them. Place on each a 
thick shce of tomato plentifully salted. Sprinkle over the tomato 
a mixture of finely chopped onions and peppers. Cover with a shce 
of Neufchatel or other cream cheese. Set in a hot oven. Remove 
as soon as the cheese melts and serve at once. Melted butter may 
be poured over the cheese if a richer dish is required. 

Juanita Williams (Lambda). 

Macaroni 

Cook one-half cup macaroni. Pour cold water over it. Pour one 
cup scalding hot milk over one large cup soft bread crumbs, 
add 3^ cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 punento chopped fine }/2 cup grated cheese 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 3 eggs 
1 teaspoon onion juice 
Pour this over macaroni. Put in buttered baking dish. Set dish 
in pan of hot water. Bake one-half or three-quarters of an hour. 



LUNCHEON DISHES 95 

Italian Macaroni 

1 slice of shoulder pork 1 cup macaroni 

1 pint of canned tomatoes grated cheese 

1 onion, salt, cayenne pepper 
Cut the pork in cubes and brown in spider with onion cut up fine. 
Add hot water and simmer for one-half hour. Boil macaroni twenty 
minutes and blanch. Heat tomatoes in a kettle. Add pork and 
stock, macaroni and salt and cayenne, cook slowly for two hours, 
adding water as needed. Turn into casserole, cover with grated 
cheese and bake one-half hour. The tomato should not be added 
until meat and macaroni are ready to bake. Some sort of chili 
pepper is better to use than cayenne pepper. 

Harriet Moore Pier (Lambda Nu). 

Meat Nests with Peas 

13^ pounds round steak 34 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 3<C teaspoon pepper 

}/2 cup cream 1 tablespoon flour 

1 can drained peas 
Grind meat (add a httle onion if desired) add seasoning, egg, 

cream and flour. Form nest in baking dish and add peas. Season 

peas with lots of butter, salt and pepper. Bake forty minutes. 

These make nice individual nests baked thirty minutes in greased 

muffin tins. 

Florence Schuyler Thorpe (Lambda). 

Cold Meat Pudding 

1 egg Yi teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 cup milk 1 boiled onion, chopped fine 

Y2 cup flour Y teaspoon salt 

pepper 
Mix well until smooth. Chop one-half pound cold meat and add to 
the batter. Put into buttered pudding dish, and bake thirty minutes. 
Turn out and garnish with parsley. Serve with brown sauce. 

Edna Judson Wilde (Lambda). 



96 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK ' 

Nut Roast (Good Substitute for Meat) 

2 cups ground walnuts 2 eggs, well beaten 

2 cups ground bread crumbs }/i pound butter 

sage, pepper, onion and salt to taste 
Moisten bread crumbs thoroughly with boiling water, add butter, 
ground onion, seasoning and beaten egg, mix well. Bake in buttered 
dish about one-half hour. Turn out on platter and serve with tart 
jelly or tomato sauce. 

Florence Schuyler Thorpe (Lambda). 

Onion Pie 

Make crust as for ordinary pie. Slice onions, add beaten egg, 
milk or cream, small pieces of uncooked bacon. Season. Put in 
crust and bake. Excellent meat and vegetable dish combined and 
rich in taste. 

Blanche Garten (Kappa). 

Little Pigs in Rice 

2 cups rice boiled until done 

1 can tomatoes cooked about twenty minutes, or until they 
begin to thicken. While cooking season with salt, pepper, sugar and 
butter. Boil one and one-half pounds of little pig sausages fifteen 
minutes. Butter a baking dish, put in the rice and tomatoes, well 
mixed. Place the sausages on the rice and bake in the oven until 
sausages are brown. 

LilHan Smith Burwell (Lambda). 

Potato Patty Shells 

sweetbreads and mushrooms 

3 cups mashed potato, seasoned to taste 
1 egg 

Shape like patty shells, cover with fine cracker crumbs and fry to a 
light brown in deep fat. Use frjdng basket to keep shells in shape. 
Fill with creamed sweetbreads, mushroom or chicken. Serve with a 
small mould of cucumber jelly. 

Mrs. J. H. Long (Sigma). 



LUNCHEON DISHES 



Salmon Toulette 



97 



One and one-half cups picked salmon. Add chopped white and 
yolk of four hard boiled eggs. Put in a saucepan three tablespoons 
each of butter, flour, and when melted add one and one-half cups milk 
(or milk and cream). Season with salt and paprika. Stir in fish and 
eggs and put in scallop shells. Spread over with buttered bread 
crumbs. Shrimp, halibut, or codfish may be used in place of salmon. 

Salmon Newburg 

yolks of 5 eggs 

1 pint thin cream, cooked until like heavy cream 
1 can sahnon 

add salt, pepper and lemon juice 
Add canned peas that have been thoroughly rinsed in cold water. 
Serve on crackers. Esther C. Dunn (Chi). 



Scalloped Meat 

Cook six eggs twenty minutes in water at boiling heat, but do not 
boil. Then separate yolks and whites, chopping latter. Make a 
white sauce, using two cups milk, two tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons flour. When cooled add chopped whites. Moisten one 
cup cracker crumbs with one-third cup melted butter and add one 
cup cold chopped ham, tongue, poultry or fish. In a dish put one 
layer crumbs, then layer white sauce, then minced meat, then 
yolks rubbed through a sieve, then crumbs again and so on until all is 
used. Season with salt and pepper. Have layer of crumbs on top 
and brown in oven. Marion Roberts (Sigma). 

Shrimp a la Newberg 

Make a cream sauce of one heaping tablespoon butter, two 
tablespoons flour and two cups of milk. Drain a can of peas and add 
to sauce, then two cans of shrimp, juice and all. Season with salt 
and paprika. Heat through, remove from stove and break in an 
egg, beating well. Serve on toast. 

Helen Gage (Sigma). 



98 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Shrimp Wiggle 
Make a white sauce of one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, 
three-fourths cup milk. Cook for five minutes after it thickens, add 
a pinch of salt, and a few grains of pepper. Stir in a can of shrimp 
and equal quantity of peas and one dozen olives chopped fine. Serve 
on toast or browned crackers. Frances Bragdon (Sigma). 

Shrimp Wiggle 
1 can French peas 1 can shrimp 

Melt one tablespoon butter in dish. Add two tablespoons flour 
and two cups of milk. Cook, season to taste, then add shrimp and 
peas. Serve at once, with or without toast. 

Elizabeth Bowerman (Nu). 

Simplified Rarebit 
Make a white sauce of two tablespoons flour, two tablespoons 
butter, two cups cream or milk. Season with salt and paprika. 
Add one cup grated cheese and stir until cheese is melted. Serve on 
crackers or toast. Ruth Rosholt (Lambda). 

Spaghetti 

Cook one-half pound spaghetti in salted water as usual. Fry one 
chopped onion in one tablespoon bacon fat and one tablespoon butter, 
until brown. Add one can Campbell's tomato soup and mix with 
one-half can water. Boil, add one-haK pound grated cheese. Let 
boil up, pour over spaghetti and bake one-half hour. 

Marguerite Stanley (Xi). 

Spanish Chowder 
1 can tomatoes, drained of some juice. 
1 can red kidney beans 

1 pound hamburg steak or anj'^ left over meat 
1 chopped green pepper 
1 chopped onion 
salt and pepper to taste 
Cook five or ten minutes, serve hot. 

Marguerite Stanley (Xi). 



LUNCHEON DISHES 99 

Spanish Frijolas 
1 tablespoon butter 1 large green pepper or 2 small 

1 cup grated cheese 1 can red kidney beans 

Heat together the kidney beans and the green pepper chopped. 
Add this to the butter and cheese which have been melted as for a 
rarebit, salt slightly and bring to a boil. Serve on crisp crackers. 

Cecelia E. Otis (Lambda). 



Casserole of Rice and Meat 

Boil one cup rice. Chop very fine one-half pound of any cold 
rneat, season with one-half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, 
one saltspoon celery salt, one teaspoon finely chopped onions, one 
teaspoon chopped parsley, one saltspoon each of thyme and mar- 
joram. Mix well, add one beaten egg, two tablespoons cracker 
dust, and moisten with hot water or stock enough to pack easil3^ 
Butter a small mould, line the bottom and sides one-half inch deep 
with cooked rice, pack in the meat, cover closely with rice and steam 
forty-five minutes. Loosen it around the edges of the mould and 
turn out. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Florence Irwin Smith (Rho). 



Mock Terrapin 

2 hard-boiled eggs, cut coarsely 
2 cups cold boiled or roast lamb, diced 
1 tablespoon butter 1 pint milk 

1 tablespoon flour 1 egg, well beaten 

1 tablespoon minced parsley 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 
Melt butter in double boiler, add flour and rub smooth, add milk. 
Cook until it thickens, then set off hot fire. Add well beaten egg, 
parsley, salt, red pepper and nutmeg to taste. Add lamb and hard 
boiled eggs. Cook slowly long enough to heat meat through, then 
add lemon juice and serve. 

Olive S. Chalmers (Rho Sigma). 



100 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Russian Pilaff 

1 pound ground meat 2 cups tomatoes 

1 cup boiled rice 
Sprinkle top with cracker crumbs and small pieces butter. Bake 
forty-five minutes. Mrs. Truair (Rho Sigma). 

Tomato on Toast 

Y2 can tomatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

a little fine onion, salt and pepper 
Cook five minutes. Add one teaspoon of cornstarch dissolved in 
little water. When hot stir in six eggs, beaten. Stir constantly. Add 
one teaspoon of chopped parsley. Let heat through only. Add more 
cornstarch and fewer eggs if desired. 

Maude M. Case (Lambda Nu). 

Tomato Golden Buck 

1 tablespoon butter Y2 cup strained tomato pur^e 

Yi pound crumbled cheese a pinch of baking soda 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 saltspoon dry mustard salt and paprika to taste 

When thoroughly melted and smooth, extinguish the flame and 
stir in two well beaten eggs. Cover for a moment and serve on hot 
toast. Lou Ashley Hubble (Rho Sigma). 

Tomato Rarebit 

Melt 3 tablespoons butter 
add 2 tablespoons flour % cup milk 

When thickened, add three-fourths cup of strained tomato mixed 
with one-eighth teaspoon soda; add two cups cheese, cut fine, two 
beaten eggs; season with salt, cayenne, and mustard; serve on toast. 

Gertrude Wliite (Rho Sigma). 

Veal Souffle 

Melt one-third cup of butter, add one-third cup of flour, stir until 
well blended, then pour on gradually two cups of scalded milk. 
Bring to a boil and add one-half cup soft stale bread crumbs, one 



LUNCHEON DISHES 101 

teaspoon salt and one-eighth teaspoon pepper, let simmer two 
minutes. Remove from fire and add three cups of cold cooked 
veal, finely chopped, one tablespoon finely chopped parsley and 
the yolks of three well beaten eggs. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs. Turn into a buttered baking dish, set in a pan of 
hot water and bake in a slow oven until firm. Remove from mould, 
garnish and serve with a white mushroom sauce. 

Neva LilHe (Phi). 

Welsh Rarebit 
1 cup cheese, diced few pinches salt and pepper 

6 tablespoons cream or milk yolks of 2 eggs 
few pinches of mustard 3 tablespoons butter 

Place the cheese, butter, mustard, salt and pepper in the pan. 
Stir until the cheese has melted slowly and then add milk with egg 
yolks. Stir until the mixture is thick and smooth. Do not allow it to 
boil or it will be tough and stringy. Have the whites of the eggs beat- 
en and fold into the mixture after it is done. If this recipe is in- 
creased use the blazer of the chafing dish without the water bath. 

Claire Willis (Theta). 

Welsh Rarebit 

1 cup hot milk 1 teaspoon flour 

3^ pound grated cheese 1 egg 

Yi teaspoon salt dash cayenne pepper 

3^ teaspoon mustard 1 teaspoon butter 

Heat milk. Mix grated cheese, flour, mustard, salt, pepper and 
egg well beaten, in a saucepan, add hot milk slowly. Cook until 
smooth and creamy. Serve hot on crisp hot toast. 

Unsigned (Epsilon). 

Yankee Doodle 

Fry three medium sized onions in butter until brown. Ar- 
range in baking dish and cover with cubes of raw round steak (about 
one pound or a little more). Add one can tomatoes, well seasoned, 
and lastly cover with about twenty sticks of macaroni, which has 
been cooked in salted water until tender. Cover and bake in moder- 
ate oven two hours. About twenty minutes before serving remove 
cover and let brown. Lotta Linder Clark (Lambda). 



102 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Creamed Mushrooms 

6 well beaten eggs seasoning 

1 cup milk 
Bake in buttered muffin tins and use in place of toast with 
creamed mushrooms. 

Wash, peel and cut up fresh mushrooms, cook in salted water. 
Make a rich cream sauce of butter, flour, and milk. To this sauce 
add the mushrooms and hquor they have cooked in. Pour this over 
the individual omelets. This makes a nice luncheon or supper dish. 

Leulah Judson Hawley (Lambda Nu). 

Minced Tongue and Mushrooms 

Make a sauce of one can Campbell's tomato soup, one-fourth cup 
butter, one-half cup grated cheese, one cup minced tongue, one cup 
minced mushrooms, onion, Worcestershu-e sauce, salt and pepper to 
taste. To this mixture add two well beaten eggs. 

Have cooked one package of spaghetti and pour the sauce over 
the spaghetti. Serve from a chafing dish. 

Leulah Judson Hawley (Lambda Nu). 



SANDWICHES 

Macaroon Wafer 

Spread a little cream cheese on a macaroon and put a stuffed 
olive on the cheese. Serve with afternoon tea. 

Ethel Rockwood (Lambda). 

Sandwiches to Serve with Cheese Dishes 
24 ohves chopped fine Yi cup finely chopped celery 

1 teaspoon tomato catsup Y2 cup maj^onnaise 

a pinch of mustard Leona Bean (Zeta). 

Sandwich Filling 

yi pound dates, stoned and washed 

Y pound prunes, stoned and washed 

Y pound figs Y pound raisins 
Y2 cup blanched almonds Yi pound pecans 
Yi cup hickory or Brazil nuts 

juice of 2 oranges and 1 lemon, or cherry juice 
Run through a meat grinder, alternating fruit and nuts. 
Mix to a paste with fruit juice and pack in round moulds or 
baking powder cans. Set in a cold place until ready for use. Slice 
thin and use between brown bread or toasted crackers. 

Mary E. Bowman (Theta). 

Sandwich Filling 

1 can shrimp, cut fine 1 bunch celery 

Y2 cup nuts, chopped fine salad dressing 

Cecil Kramer (Pi). 

Filling for Sandwiches 
cream cheese, one-half pound 2 mangoes 
3/6 pound English or black walnuts 
Put through a food chopper, salt to taste and moisten with 
vinegar. Martha Dever Moulton (Lambda). 

103 



104 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Sandwich Filling 

The following combinations have been successfully used in sand- 
wiches : 

1. Chopped pineapple, nuts and a little celery mixed with mayon- 
naise. 

2. Dates and pecans with or without cream cheese or mayonnaise. 

3. Sliced pears, nuts and a very httle chopped green pepper. 

4. Celery and nuts chopped together and mixed with mayonnaise. 
Especially nice with whole wheat bread. 

5. Tomato sandwiches. Slice bread a little thicker than for 
ordinary sandwiches and cut round. Butter Uberally and spread 
with maj^onnaise. Lay a slice of tomato on each piece of bread and 
sprinkle with salt. A little green pepper and nuts may be added if 
desired. Cover with bread slices and serve on lettuce leaves with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise on the top of each sandwich. 

Marion Kappes (Sigma). 

Sandwich Filling 

}/2 pound grated Swiss cheese 1 teaspoon dry mustard 
4 tablespoons vinegar 3^ teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons melted butter yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 
Stir to a paste and spread on thin slices of bread. 

Marie Barnes Morrow (Lambda). 

Toasted Sandwiches 

Cut slices of bread into narrow strips. Spread with butter and 
then with a paste made of chopped nuts, moistened with salad 
dressing. Put in a hot oven and toast to a hght brown. Serve hot. 
Chopped oUves may be added to the filling. 

Ruth Rosholt (Lambda). 

Strawberry Nut Sandwiches 

Spread buttered slices of bread with a paste made of one cup 
ground nut meats and one-half jelly glass of strawberry jam. 

Ruth Rosholt (Lambda). 



SANDWICHES 105 

Pimento Sandwiches 

Chop a few slices of pimento with an equal amount of walnuts 
and hard boiled eggs. Make a paste with salad dressing. Add salt. 
Spread between thin buttered slices of bread. 

Edith Fryer Siebold (Lambda). 

Pimento Sandwiches 

To one-fourth pound of soft cream cheese add one teaspoon 
chopped chives, one saltspoon of mixed mustard, and two tablespoons 
of minced pimento. Add cream and beat until soft and creamy. 
Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Luncheon Sandwich 

Put the following between two slices of toasted bread in order 
given: shredded lettuce or cabbage, thin sliced fried ham, salad 
dressing, a little more lettuce, thin slice cold chicken or roast pork. 
More salad dressing. 

Chopped Ham Filling 

Cut bread very thin and spread with finely chopped cold boiled 
ham, moistened well with cream or mayonnaise. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Japanese Sandwich 

Cook figs until skins are tender. Drain and cool. Chop very fine 
and add an equal amount of ground nuts. Cut bread very thin and 
spread with mixture. Serve at "Japanese Tea." 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Ginger Nut Sandwiches 

Put through a meat grinder one cup nut meats and one-half cup 
preserved ginger. Mix to a paste with salad dressing. 

Ruth Rosholt (Lambda). 



106 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Western Egg Sandwiches 
Butter and salt large slices of bread, two slices for each person. 
For the fiUing take one egg for each person, beat slightly 
add raw onion and fried ham, chopped fine. Fry a spoonful at a time. 
Place between two slices of bread and season. A little melted cheese 
poured over the whole may be added. 

Mrs. H. A. Robinson (Rho Sigma). 

Egg Sandwiches 
For these use hard-boiled eggs. Chop the whites fine, and press 
the yolks through a potato ricer. Mix whites and yolks, season with 
salt and pepper, and moisten with mayonnaise or cream dressing. 
Butter slices of bread, spread mixture between. Press each piece, as 
you place on top. 

Norma Rosholt Caramack (Lambda). 

Chive Sandwiches 
Slice cucumbers thin and allow them to stand in French dressing 
one hour. When the sandwiches are prepared, sprinkle cucumbers 
with chopped chives. 

Edith Rockwood (Lambda). 

Mock Crab Sandwiches 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 
1 tablespoon butter 
}/s teaspoon red pepper 
3^ teaspoon anchovy paste 
1 teaspoon vinegar 
1 teaspoon chopped olives or pickles 
The above makes filUng for about fourteen sandwiches. 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Chicken Salad Sandwiches 
Put through meat chopper, one cup cold chicken. Add one level 
cup celery, cut very fine, and four tablespoons mayonnaise. Spread 
between sUces of buttered white bread. 

Edna M. McKinley (Rho Sigma). 



SANDWICHES 107 

Chicken and Ham Sandwiches 

Cream one-third cup butter and add one-half cup each of finely 
chopped cold boiled ham and cold boiled chicken. Season with salt 
and paprika. Spread mixture between thin slices of bread. 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Chicken Sandwiches 

Mince the white of roast chicken and mix it with half a cup 
chopped English walnuts and one-half cup French mushrooms, 
season to taste with pepper and salt and moisten with melted butter. 
Put the mixture between slices of whole wheat bread. 

Cora Mae Jones (Nu). 

Pecan Cheese Wafers 

Take small, crisp crackers and place on each a thin slice of good 
New York cream cheese, cut in the same shape, but slightly smaller 
than the cracker. On each piece of cheese, put four pecan kernels, 
flat side down. Place in a rather hot oven and toast from two to four 
minutes. The oven should be briskly hot so as to melt the cheese 
and toast the nuts, but not hot enough to brown crackers. A nice 
luncheon dish to serve with celery hearts. 

Margaret Van Bergen (Lambda). 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches 

Cream one cake of Blue Label cheese by adding a httle sweet 
or sour cream. Season with a little cayenne and add one-half pint of 
olives chopped fine. Chopped nuts may be added if desired. 

Elsie Foulke Haney (Lambda). 

Cheese and Pickle Sandwiches 

1 small onion 1 cup grated cheese 

9 olives 1 chow chow pickle 

1 green pepper 
Chop the various ii^gredients. Add enough mustard dressing from 
the chow chow to make a paste. Spread not too thickly on thin 
sHces of bread. Frances Firkins (Lambda). 



108 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

Chop Swiss cheese, mix it with an equal quantity of chopped nut 
meats, add salt and a dash of cayenne; spread between slightly 
buttered slices of bread. Cut in rounds or triangles. 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Toasted Cheese Sandwich 

Put a slice of American cheese between two slices of bread and 
fry in butter in a hot spider until brown. Served with a fruit salad 
these make a substantial luncheon dish. 

Harriette Lewis (Upsilon). 

Cheese Canapes 

white of 1 egg beaten very stiff 
1 cup cheese, finely crumbled or grated 
1 saltspoon of salt speck of cayenne 

Remove crusts from one-half inch slices of bread and heap with 
cheese mixture. Cut into three strips and bake about ten minutes 
or until cheese browns and bread toasts. 

Nell Cochran (Sigma). 

Rolled Bread 

Use for this, fresh, warm bread cut very thin. Spread with 
creamed butter, roll and tie each with baby ribbon to keep them in 
shape. It is better to butter loaf before cutting off slice. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Wafers to Serve with Tea 

Mix such portion of a cream or a Neuf chatel cheese as is desired 
with cream, a few grains of salt and a dash of paprika to make a soft 
mixture but one firm enough to hold its shape. When ready to serve, 
toast some crackers, put a spoonful of the cheese on each with a 
slice of stuffed olive on the cheese. With a pastry bag and tube the 
cheese may be given a star shape. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 



SANDWICHES 109 

Cinnamon Toast 

Cut narrow slices of bread. Toast on one side, then spread the 
untoasted side with a mixture of butter creamed with sugar and 
cinnamon. 

Place in the oven for a few minutes until the mixture is melted. 
It is better to turn out the gas and let the heat of the oven melt the 
mixture. 

Margaret Frisbie Wood (Lambda Nu) . 



EGGS, CEREALS, AND BREAKFAST DISHES 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit for Breakfast 

Warm the biscuit in the oven to restore crispness — don't burn — 
pour hot milk over it, dipping the milk over it until the shreds are 
swollen; then pour a httle cream over the top of the biscuit. Or 
serve with cold milk or cream, according to individual taste. 

Crumb Pan Cakes 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sweet milk 2 tablespoons melted shortening 

1 cup bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 teaspoon soda 

Stiffen with white flour enough to make batter. Beat well. 

Adelaide Conners (Lambda Nu). 

Quick Waffles 

3 cups flour 3 eggs 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter, melted 

2 teaspoons baking powder, heaping 

Add to well beaten yolks, the flour, milk and salt; beat wefl, 
add butter and, last, the well beaten whites of eggs and baking 
powder. 

Ethelwyn J. Maloney (Psi Phi). 

Pan Cakes 

3 cups rich sour milk salt to taste 
3 level teaspoons soda 

Add enough uncooked cream of wheat to make a pan cake batter. 
Allow the batter to stand fifteen minutes before using so the cream 
of wheat will swell. If this batter is too thick after standing, thin with 
sweet milk. 

Bake on hot griddle. 

Ruth Palmer Confer (Lambda Nu). 

110 



EGGS, CEREALS, AND BREAKFAST DISHES 111 

Waffles 
1 tablespoon butter 1 pint flour 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

2 tablespoons corn meal 

1 pint buttermilk or sour milk 

Mix dry ingredients and sift into wet mixture. 

Ruth Harrison Danforth (Lambda). 

Breakfast Kommelariom 

2 quarts boihng water 1 large cup chopped raisins 

3 large cups rolled oats 1 large cup chopped dates 

1 large cup chopped figs 1 large cup chopped walnuts 

Salt to taste. Cook all night in fireless cooker. 

Eleanor Simpkin (Pi). 

Gnocchi of Farina 

1 pint milk 1 egg 

Yi cup farina butter 

Y2 teaspoon salt grated cheese 

Put the milk in a double boiler, and when hot add the salt, and 
stir in slowly the farina, or cream of wheat. Cook ten minutes, 
remove from the fire and add at once the beaten egg. Pour into 
baking powder cansor jam jars and stand aside until cold and firm. 
Turn out and slice. Butter a baking dish and lay the rounds of farina 
in layers, alternating with grated cheese and butter. When the 
dish is full cover with grated cheese and bits of butter, and brown 
in oven. Can be served with tomato sauce. 

Edna Judson Wilde (Lambda). 

Spanish Omelet 

4 eggs 1 or 2 green peppers 
4 tablespoons warm water Y2 can of tomatoes 

1 tablespoon minced onion salt and pepper to taste 

Beat eggs with water until blended. Season with salt and pepper. 
Pour into hot buttered pan. Run knife blade under it until it 



112 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

becomes creamy. Fold omelet and let it brown. Turn onto hot 
platter and serve with following sauce: 

Sauce 

Into frying pan put two tablespoons butter. Add onion and green 
pepper, cooking slowly five minutes. Pour in tomatoes, mashed. 
Cook fifteen minutes, season highly. Pour hot over omelet. 

Gae Myers Seeley (Theta). 

Omelet 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour Yi cup milk 

}4, teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon butter for frying 
Make a white sauce of the butter, flour and milk. When sauce is 
cool add the yolks beaten well and whites beaten until stiff. Pour 
into a hot frying pan and brown. When it is set put into a hot oven 
for a few minutes to dry. Fold and serve. 

Theodora Stark Carpenter (Lambda). 

Omelet 

6 eggs 6 teaspoons corn starch 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat the yolks, add the corn starch, baking powder, milk and a 
small teaspoon of salt. Fold in the beaten whites. Pour into a 
skillet in which has been melted a tablepoon butter. Put into a 
very hot oven, until firm. Fold and serve with tomato sauce, cold 
sliced tomatoes or jelly. 

Edith Dumont Smith (Kappa). 

Tomato Sauce 

1 pint tomato juice 2 chopped onions 

salt, pepper, celery seed, bay, etc., in small quantities 
Thicken with flour and butter and bring to a boil. Pour over 
eggs. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 



EGGS, CEREALS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 113 

Tomatoes and Eggs 

Take juice of one can of tomatoes. Bring to a boil, add pinch of 
soda and skim. Add salt and pepper to taste and thicken with a 
little flour. Drop in six eggs and poach. Serve on buttered toast, 
pouring the sauce over the eggs. 

Mabel Lyden (Pi). 

Toasted Egg with Cheese 

Cut bread in large rounds and toast. Make a wall of grated 
cheese around edge of toast. Break an egg in the center and cook in 
hot oven until egg is set. 

Frances Bragdon (Sigma). 

Swiss Eggs 

4 eggs salt and pepper to taste 

Y2 cup cream 3^ cup grated cheese 

Heat the butter and cream together, break in the eggs whole, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. When nearly done, add the cheese. 
Serve on buttered toast. Strain the cream over the toast. 

Mable Bath (Omicron). 

Stuffed Eggs for Picnics 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. When cool remove the shell and 
split open, being careful to keep the white in shape. Place the hard 
yolks in a bowl, crush with a fork, add one-half teaspoon chopped 
parsley, one generous tablespoon mayonnaise, and six or eight stuffed 
oHves, chopped very fine. Mix well and stuff back into the whites. 
Serve in a small basket lined with lettuce leaves. 

Edna Judson Wilde (Lambda). 

Stuffed Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

Devil as many eggs as desired, adding a httle chopped ham or 
crisp bacon to the filUng. Place the two halves together again. 
Dip in egg and bread crumbs twice. Fry in deep fat. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 



114 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Egg Vermicelli 

Separate the yolks and whites of two hard boiled eggs. Chop 
whites very fine and mix with one cup hot white sauce, then pour 
onto a hot platter. Rub the yolks through a strainer over the top 
and garnish with triangles of buttered toast. 

Antoinette Miklau (Gamma). 

Eggs in Pepper Ramekins 
Cut green peppers in half and use for ramekins. Remove seeds 
and parboil until tender. Break an egg into each shell, season and 
sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs. Bake until eggs are set. 
Serve with white sauce. . 

Marion Kappes (Sigma). 

Eggs and Olives 
Boil six or eight eggs. Remove shells. Cut eggs into thick slices; 
roll each slice in cracker dust, then in beaten egg, then in cracker 
dust again and set in the ice chest until the coating stiffens. Fry 
to a hght brown. Transfer to a heated platter and pour over the 
eggs a rich white sauce into which have been stirred a dozen large 
olives, minced. 

Ethel Elliott Swan (Tau). 

Egg in Nest 

Separate one egg. Beat white very stiff with one-eighth teaspoon 
salt. Heap on buttered tin. Make nest or hole in center and care- 
fully slip yolk in without breaking. Season with a little salt and set 
in oven to bake slowly about ten minutes. Remove carefully to 
shce of buttered toast. Season with a little butter on yolk and serve 
at once. Especially good for an invalid. 

Verna Cooper (Iota). 

Baked Eggs 
Take six medium sized tomatoes, cut off tops and remove seeds. 
Break an egg into each tomato shell and season with butter, salt and 
pepper. Bake in medium oven about twenty minutes and serve hot. 

Maud MuUen (Theta). 



EGGS, CEREALS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 115 

Oat Cake (Breakfast) 

1 cup rolled oats 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 egg milk for stiff batter 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Spread with knife, thin, on buttered pan and cut in squares to 
serve. 

Christina Van Voorhees Rose (Upsilon). 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

2 cups hot boiled rice 

2 cups flour 3^ teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 cups milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 
Stir salt and milk into hot rice. Let cool, then add yolks of eggs 
well beaten, flour sifted with baking powder, and lastly, whites of 
eggs beaten until dry. 

Grace Johnston (Omicron). 

Griddle Cakes 

1 quart flour 2 eggs 

1 quart milk pinch of salt 

2 tablespoons melted butter 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

Put baking powder in last. More milk may be needed as batter 
should be very thin. 

Frances Bragdon (Sigma). 

Bread Griddle Cakes 

13^ cups fine fresh bread crumbs, soaked in 13^ cups hot milk 
2 tablespoons melted butter 
2 well beaten eggs 

Y2 cup flour H teaspoon salt 

33^ teaspoons baking powder 
Mix in order given. 

Florence Winterer (Lambda). 



BREADS 

Dutch Apple Cake 

Make a soft biscuit dough with a quart of flour, two tablespoons 
butter, one-half teaspoon salt, two teaspoons baking powder and 
sufficient cold millc to mix. Roll out one-half inch thick and lay in 
flat greased pans. Have readj^ apples pared, cored and quartered. 
Press pieces into top of dough in rows, sprinkle with granulated 
sugar and bake in quick oven. Cut in squares while hot. 

Alice Van Voorhes Rose (Upsilon). 

Bran Bread 

1 quart bran 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup graham flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 2 teaspoons soda 

1 pint sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup molasses 1 egg 

Add raisins or nuts if desired. Stir thoroughly. Bake from 
fortj'-five to sixty minutes in slow oven. 

Louella Ehzabeth Cordier (Theta). 

Bran Bread 

3 cups brand and 3 cups graham floiu- 
1 pint buttermilk or sweet milk 
}/2 cup white sugar 
Yi cup Karo s>Tup 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon soda 
1 teaspoon baking pwdcr 
3 tablespoons melted lard 
1 well beaten egg 
1 cup nuts if desired 
Bake about an hour in a slow oven. 

Annabel Carolyn Teal (Phi). 

116 



BREADS 117 

Bran and Whole Wheat Bread 
1 cup bran Yi teaspoon salt 

1 heaping cup whole wheat flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 scant cup seeded raisins, halved 2 tablespoons molasses 
1^ cups sour milk or buttermilk 

Stir all dry ingredients together, then add molasses and milk. 
Have batter so it will drop easily from the spoon, but not run. 
Bake slowly about one hour. Florence McGuire (Xi). 

Brown Bread 

3^ cup molasses 2 cups soin- milk 

% cup brown sugar 2 cups whole wheat flour 

3 tablespoons melted lard 2 cups graham flour 

Yi teaspoon salt nuts, raisins 

2 teaspoons soda 

Put in oven hardly warm, bake slowly one hour. 

Jane Evetyn Thomas (Alpha Zeta). 

Boston Brown Bread 

1 egg 1 cup som- milk 

1 heaping teaspoon soda dissolved 
in 1 tablespoon boiling water 1 cup rye flour 

1 cup molasses 1 cup wheat flour 

1 cup yellow corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

Beat egg, add milk; add dissolved soda to molasses and beat until 
foamy; add to egg and milk, then add the dry ingredients. Boil 
for three hours in covered mould. 

Norma E. Sammons (Omicron). 

Brown Bread 

1 cup sweet milk 

2 cups sour milk Yi cup molasses 
2 cups corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 2 teaspoons soda 

This will make a thin batter. Fill well-greased covered cans half 
full, steam two hours and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Jessie Ware Libby (Lambda Nu) . 



118 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 



Brown Nut Bread 



2 cups sour milk Yi cup brown sugar 

1 cup white flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups graham flour 3^ cup broken nuts 
Y2 cup molasses Yi cup seeded raisins 
2 scant teaspoons soda 

Stir the soda into the sour milk and mix with the other ingre- 
dients. Grease baking tins well and fill three-fourths full. Let rise 
one hour and bake one hour. 

Harriet D. Moore (Lambda). 

Mississippi Corn Bread 

1 quart buttermilk 1 tablespoon butter 

\Yi quarts Southern corn meal 2 eggs 
1 rounding teaspoon soda 
Add soda last, dissolved in a little warm water. Pour at once into 
a hot greased spider and bake in a quick oven one-half hour. 

Alice Scott Ellis (Xi). 

Date Bread 

Mix one cup of warm wheat mush, one-fourth cup brown sugar, 
one tablespoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt. When lukewarm add 
one-fourth yeast cake, dissolved in lukewarm water and enough 
bread flour to knead. Cover and let rise over night. In the morning, 
cut down and knead in one cup chopped dates. Let rise and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Date Bread 

y^ cup sugar 13^ cup white flour 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup whole wheat flour 

1 tablespoon each of butter and lard 
1 egg 1 pound dates 

1 small teaspoon soda nuts if desired 

Bake in moderate oven about half an hour. 

Julia B. Gould (Lambda Nu). 



BREADS 119 

German Coffee Bread 

1 cup scalded milk 1 egg 

}/^ cup butter, or butter and lard 

}4 cup sugar 3^ yeast cake, dissolved in 

}/2 teaspoon salt 3^ cup lukewarm milk 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk. When lukewarm, add 
dissolved yeast cake, egg, well beaten, and flour to make a stiff 
batter. Cover, let rise over night and in morning spread very thin 
in buttered dripping pan. Cover and let rise again. Before baking, 
brush over with beaten egg, and cover with following mixture: melt 
three tablespoons butter and one-third cup brown sugar. When 
sugar is partially melted, add three tablespoons flour. Bake about 
fifteen minutes. 

Marion Kappes (Sigma). 



Graham Bread 

2 cups buttermilk 2 tablespoons molasses 

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon salt 

Mix and stir in two cups graham flour. Bake in slow oven one 
hour. 

Florence M. Sylvester (Lambda). 



Graham Bread 

4 cups graham flour 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

3}/^ cups white flour 3^ cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons molasses 1 heaping teaspoon salt 

3 cups lukewarm milk 3^ teaspoon soda 
Icake yeast 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix together the dry ingredients, rub in the butter. Add the 
molasses with the soda dissolved in it. Add the lukewarm milk and 
the yeast dissolved in the lukewarm water. Knead the dough well for 
twenty minutes. Cover and set to rise. Form into two loaves, put 
into pans and let rise again. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour 
and a quarter. 

Florence Dyer Kahn (Chi Sigma). 



120 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Graham Bread 

2 cups sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup white flour graham flour 

1 teaspoon soda 

Mix flour and baking powder and soda. Mix all ingredients. 
Add enough graham flour to make quite stiff as a "drop" batter. 
Bake three-fourths hour. This makes two small loaves. 

Adelaide Conners (Lambda Nu). 

Nut Bread 

2 eggs 13/2 cups milk 
13^2 cups sugar 4 cups flour 

1 cup finely chopped English walnuts 
4 teaspoons baking powder 

Let rise twenty minutes and bake one hour. 

Jeanette Hand Sherman (Psi Phi). 

Nut Bread 

2 cups graham flour Yi cup sugar 

2 cups white flour 2 cups sweet milk 

% cup EngUsh walnuts 1 egg 

4 rounded teaspoons baking powder 
Sift flour and baking powder. Cream egg and sugar. Add 
milk, then flour and stir well, then add nuts. Bake about one hour. 

Gertrude Darrow Chubb (Lambda). 

Nut and Date Brown Bread 

Y2 cup brown sugar 2 cups wliite flour 

Y2 cup corn syrup or molasses 2 cups graham flour 
2 cups sweet milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon soda dissolved in Y cup luke warm water 
1 pound dates, cut in thin strips \„ i 
1 cup walnuts, broken coarsely / 
Mix in order given and bake in slow oven one and one-half hours. 

Two burners turned on for first fifteen minutes and one burner 

turned low for remaining time. 

Grace Ware Chambers (Lambda). 



BREADS 121 



Oatmeal Bread 



Put one cup rolled oats in two cups boiling water. Add one 
tablespoon butter. When lukewarm, add six cups white flour, 
one-third cup molasses, pinch of soda, one yeast cake, soaked in a 
little warm water. Let rise over night. In the morning knead and 
put in tins. Let rise and bake slowly. 

Bertha Wilson Carter (Rho). 

Peanut Butter Bread 

2 eggs Yi teaspoon salt 

2 cups white flour 3^ cup sugar 

1 cup sweet milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup peanut butter 

Rub dry ingredients together except flour, which is added last. 
Eggs beaten light. Bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. Makes 
one loaf. 

Blanche Garten (Kappa). 

Pettijohn's Bread 

Shake a little salt in a quart of warm water, add one yeast cake 
and one-half package Pettijohn flour. Let it rise. Add one egg, 
butter the size of an egg, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup walnuts, 
and white flour enough to stiffen. 

Elaine Shields (Xi). 

English Raisin Bread 

2 cups flour Y2 cup currants 

4 teaspoons baldng powder dash of grated nutmeg 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 egg 

Y2 cup sugar Yi cup milk 



4 cup raisms 



Mix dry ingredients, cut the shortening into this. Add fruit. 
Beat whole egg and add milk to it. Combine the two mixtures as in 
baking powder biscuit. Put in greased pan and bake in a medium 
oven from forty to forty-five minutes. 

Olive M. Brink (Sigma). 



122 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Old Fashioned Raisin Bread 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 

1 cup luke warm water 2 tablespoons shortening 

1 compressed yeast cake 1 teaspoon salt 

^ cup sugar 13^ cup seedless raisins 

Make a sponge of water, milk, lard or butter, yeast, sugar, salt, 
and two cups of flour. Beat until smooth. Cover and set to rise in 
warm place until light. When well raised add raisins and remaining 
flour or enough to make moderately soft dough. Knead lightly, 
place in well greased bowl, cover and let rise until double its bulk. 
Form into loaves, half fill well greased pans, cover and let rise five 
minutes. Grace Ware Chambers (Lambda). 

Snickerdoodle 

14, cup butter and lard 

1 cup sugar 23^ cups flour 

1 egg a little salt 

1 cup milk }/2 cup currants 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Before baldng sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. Bake twenty 
minutes. Contributed. 

Southern Corn Meal Spoon Bread 

Scald with boiling water one cup of corn meal and then make 
quite thin with butter milk. Add salt and soda, one-half teaspoon of 
each, two tablespoons of melted butter and one well beaten egg. 
Cook in greased pudding dish for twenty minutes. A favorite dish in 
the South for breakfast, eaten with butter or steak gravy. 

Mrs. Mary Comfort Leonard (one of Delta Gamma's Founders). 

Scotch Short Bread 

]/2 pound butter 3^ cup powdered sugar 

2 cups sifted flour 
Cream butter and sugar. Add one cup flour and stir until 
flour is all worked into the butter and sugar. Take the bread 
board and put the second cup of flour on the board and work this 
into the dough. 



BREADS 123 

When the flour is all worked in sprinkle a little additional flour on 
the board and roll the dough into a sheet about one-half inch thick. 

Cut with a cookie cutter or leave in sheet, marking off squares 
with a fork. 

Bake on the bottom of a dripping pan or cookie sheet, first putting " 
a piece of unbuttered white paper on the pan. Bake in a slow oven 
for thirty minutes, but do not brown. Should be almost white or 
butter colored. When done sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Rae Goodnow Hensel, (Lambda Nu). 

Rolls 

Cinnamon Rolls 
2 cups flour 2 tablespoons lard 

2 heaping teaspoons baking powder 
1 beaten egg added to 3^ cup milk 
Roll out and spread with melted butter, sugar and cinnamon, 
then roll up and cut into pieces the desired thickness. 

Miriam Starrett (Kappa). 

French Rolls 

Prepare dough as for bread and work in one-fourth pound butter 
and one-fourth pound sugar. Add four well beaten eggs, form into 
rolls and put in buttered baking pan. Let them rise half an hour, 
brush top with beaten egg and bake. 

Mrs. J. C. Elhott King (Lambda). 

Hot Cross Buns 

1 cup scalded milk 

14, cup sugar ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

3/^ yeast cake dissolved in 3^ cup luke warm water 

2 tablespoons butter 3 cups flour 
}/2 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

14: cup cut up raisins or currants 
Mix butter, sugar, salt and milk. When luke warm add dis- 
solved yeast cake, cinnamon, flour, and egg (well beaten). When 
thoroughly mixed add raisins and cover. Let rise over night. In 
morning shape and form into large biscuits. Place in greased pans 



124 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

one inch apart. Let rise, brush over with beaten egg. Let bake 
twenty minutes (sprinkle with a Httle sugar and cinnamon after 
brushed with egg). 

Mildred Lawrence (Alpha Delta). 

Light Rolls 

Make a sponge of one cake compressed yeast, one-half cup warm 
milk and flour enough for stiff batter. Let rise until double its size, 
add: 2 eggs, whites beaten 
34 scant cup sugar 3^ cup lard 

Yi teaspoon salt 13^ cups warm milk 

Add more flour to make stiff and let rise again. Form into 
rolls, let rise and bake. These require no kneading. 

Breta Bills (Kappa). 

Luncheon Rolls 

Add one-fourth cup butter, one and one-half tablespoons of 
sugar and one-half teaspoon salt to one cup of scalded milk. When 
mixture is lukewarm add one cake of yeast, dissolved in one-fourth 
cup of lukewarm water, the white of one egg well beaten and three 
and three-fourths cups sifted flour. Knead, let rise. Shape by 
cutting with large biscuit cutter, spread with melted butter, fold over. 
Let these rise and then bake in a moderate oven for about twenty 
minutes. This makes two dozen rolls. 

Beulah Guthrie Rice (Phi Omega). 

Parker House Corn Rolls 

Sift together, one and one-fourth cups white flour, three-fourths 
cup corn meal, two teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon sugar. Cut in two tablespoons butter as in 
pastry. Add one beaten egg to one-half cup milk and turn into the 
dry ingredients, making a soft dough that can be handled. Add more 
milk if necessary. Turn on to a floured board, toss lightly and roll 
out, cut one-half inch thick with biscuit cutter. Put bits of butter in 
center of each and fold opposite edges to meet in center. Brush top 
with milk and bake in quick oven fifteen minutes. 

Helen Berkman Judd (Lambda). 



BREADS 125 

Penny Rolls 

Pour two cups boiling water over 

2 tablespoons lard 1 teaspoon salt 

Yi cup sugar 
When cool add one compressed yeast cake and one egg, well 
beaten. Make as stiff with flour as you can stir with a spoon. When 
twice its bulk, make into small balls and raise in muffin pans. When 
very light bake seven minutes in hot oven. This can be kept in cold 
place in winter or in ice chest in summer and made into rolls and 
raised and baked as desired. 

Elsie Irvine Sovereign (Sigma). 

Potato Rolls 

1 cup flour 1 cup milk 

1 cup mashed potatoes Yi cup sugar 

^ cup lard 2 well beaten eggs 

pinch of salt 

1 cake compressed yeast, dissolved in Y cup lukewarm water 
Mix flour, lard, potatoes, sugar, salt. Add eggs, then milk and, 

lastly, yeast. Let it rise for two hours. Make into soft dough by 
adding about one quart of flour and set to rise again. Roll thin, 
spread with softened butter. Cut with small cutter. Place two 
rounds together, one on top of the other. Bake in quick oven. 

Martha Dever Moulton (Lambda). 

Tea Rolls 

2 quarts sifted flour 

1 cake compressed yeast, dissolved in lukewarm milk 

1 heaping teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 
% cup butter 

lukewarm milk enough to make a moderately stiff dough 
Set to rise about two p. m. When well risen, make into rolls and 
set them to rise. Bake in quick oven from twenty minutes to one-half 
hour. If wanted for br<eakfast, set over night with one-half cake 
yeast. 

Leonora Mann (Lambda). 



126 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Zweiback 

In the evening cook two good sized potatoes to make one pint of 
potato water, using potato and all. When cool add two heaping 
tablespoons of sugar and a cake of Fleischman's yeast (dissolved). 
Let stand over night in a warm place. Next morning add: 
1 cup milk 

Yi teaspoon soda (dissolved in water) 
Yi pound butter 1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 well beaten eggs 

Add flour to make a soft dough, let rise until double its size, 
knead into loaves and let rise again until double its size. Bake in hot 
oven one hour. 

When baked and cool, cut into slices and bake to a golden brown. 

Pearl McDonnell (Beta). 

Biscuits 
Baking Powder Biscuits 

2 teacups flour 

2 rounding tablespoons lard, rubbed into flour 
Y2 teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
sweet milk, to make a soft dough 
Mix with a spoon. Bake quickly. 

Helen LesHe (Omega). 

Cheese Biscuit 

2 cups flour 

4 level teaspoons baking powder 
}/i teaspoon salt 
paprika to suit 
2 tablespoons butter 
1 cup milk 

1 cup grated New York cheese 
Bake about twenty-five minutes. These are nice with salads or 
for Sunday night lunch. 

Julia B. Gould (Lambda Nu). 



BREADS 127 

Egg Biscuits 

Sift together one pint flour and one full teaspoon baking powder. 
Rub into this one tablespoon butter. Add one well beaten egg, one 
level teaspoon sugar and one-half teaspoon salt. Mix together quick- 
ly with one-half cup milk or more if needed. Roll to one-half inch 
thickness, cut into biscuits and bake in a quick oven about fifteen 
minutes. Christina Van Voorhes Rose (Upsilon). 

Ginger Biscuit 

Yi cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

Yi cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Yi cup sour milk 1 teaspoon ginger 

Yi cup sugar 1 egg 
flour to make a cooky batter 

Roll thick, cut, and bake. Ethel Elliott Swan (Tau). 

Grandma's Sweet Biscuit 
2 cups brown sugar 1 rounded teaspoon soda 

2 cups thick sour cream Y2 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons allspice 
Mix soft and roll about one-half inch thick. 

Louise Cady Loft (Lambda Nu). 

Tea Biscuits 
1 pint luke warm milk 
Yi cake compressed yeast, dissolved in 

Y cup warm water 
scant Y cup of butter or other shortening 
1 tablespoon sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 egg, well beaten 
Mix these ingredients together. Add flour to make a stiff dough, 
let rise over night. Knead down and let rise again. Roll out in a 
sheet one inch thick and cut with a biscuit cutter. 

Fold over with a piece of butter in the fold. Let rise until very 
light and bake in a quick oven fifteen or eighteen minutes. 

Orra Firkins (Lambda). 



128 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Gems and Muffins 
Bran Gems 
2 cups table bran 2 tablespoons molasses 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sour milk 1 egg 

2 teaspoons soda 
Bake in gem pans in hot oven. Emma Hinsdale (Rho). 

Chocolate Gems 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

2 tablespoons butter Y^ cup cold water 
2 tablespoons cocoa Yi teaspoon salt 

1 small teaspoon baking powder 1 cup flour 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

My Mother's Graham Gems 
1 pint graham flour 1 egg, beaten 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon lard 1 cup milk 
pinch salt 

Pour milk into egg, then add flour. Have pans greased and 
oven hot. Bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

Hazel Whitaker Vandenberg (Xi). 

Muffins 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons melted butter 
4 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

Yi teaspoon salt 1 egg 

2 teaspoons sugar Corneha Lindsey (Kappa). 

Bran Muffins 

2 cups bran 1 small teaspoon soda 

1 cup graham flour 1 cup milk 

Y cup molasses 1 egg 

salt 
Bake in gem pans twenty to thirty minutes. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda Nu). 



BREADS 129 

Blueberry Muffins 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup sweet milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 2}^ cups flour 

2 eggs 1 cup blueberries 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix butter and sugar until creamy, then add eggs, beaten light. 
Sift baking powder with flour and add flour alternately with the 
milk, then add berries dusted with flour. Bake thirty minutes. 
(Huckleberries may be substituted for blueberries in this recipe). 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Blueberry Cake or Muffins 

1 egg 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1^ cups flour 

1 cup sour cream 1 cup blueberries (floured) 

1 scant teaspoon soda 
Mix egg and sugar, beat well. Then add cream, soda, salt, 
flour. Add berries last and stir lightly. Bake in small dripping pan 
or muffin tins. Eat while fresh. 

Adelaide Conners (Lambda Nu). 

Com Muffins 

1 egg 1 cup flour 

\i cup sugar 1 cup corn meal 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Ehzabeth McDowell (Omicron). 

Date Muffins 

1 cup milk 1 egg, beaten 

Y2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons shortening 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

3^ cup dates, chopped 
Pour in muffin pans and bake. 

Helen Adams (Rho). 



130 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Potato Flour Muffins 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

pinch of salt 2 tablespoons ice water 

Y2 cup white potato flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

Beat whites of eggs very stiff and dry. Add salt and sugar to 
beaten yolks and fold into whites. Sift flour and baking powder 
twice and thoroughly beat into egg mixture. Add ice water last. 
Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Whole Wheat Muffins 
Y2 cup whole wheat flour 34 teaspoon salt 

Y2 cup white flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Y^ cup milk IH tablespoons shortening 

Sift flour and baking powder and salt, and rub in shortening. Add 
the milk. Bake in hot oven for twenty minutes. 

Margaret Denfeld Hudson (Lambda). 

Pop-Overs 
Beat two eggs with dover egg beater, then add one cup milk and 
one cup flour with pinch of salt. Beat again very thoroughly and 
bake in well greased muffin pans in hot oven. 

Edna Mae Bell (Rho). 

Pop-Overs 

1 cup flour Y teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

1 teaspoon melted shortening 
Sift flour and salt into a bowl. Beat egg and mix milk with it. 
Add half of this to the flour and beat until free from lumps. Stir in 
the rest of the liquid, also the shortening. Beat with dover egg 
beater, two minutes. Pour into well greased, hissing hot, iron gem 
pans and bake in hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Antoinette Miklau (Gamma). 

Graham Muffins 

1 egg 1 cup flour 

Y cup sugar 1 cup graham flour 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 

EHzabeth McDowell (Omicron). 



PIES AND PASTRY 

Pastry 
1 cup flour pinch of salt 

4 tablespoons lard pinch of soda 

3 tablespoons cold water 

Ahce Moss (Mu). 

1, 2, 3 Pie Crust 

1 cup flour 3 tablespoons water 

2 heaping tablespoons lard salt 

Marguerite French (Zeta). 

Pie Crust 
1 cup flour 14: teaspoon baking powder 

yi teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons lard 

Chop these in a bowl with a silver knife until the lard is chopped 
fine. Then add ice cold water, drop by drop and continue mixing 
with knife until ready to roll out. Grace Stoddard (Zeta). 

Pie Crust 

13^^ cups flour 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
Sift above ingredients. Melt one-half cup shortening. Add to 
above mixture and stir with spoon. Then add one-fourth cup water. 
Mix and roll on board as for any pie crust. 

This is most quickly and easily made and is always successful. 

Gail Hamilton Luther (Lambda Nu). 

Timbales 
Mix three-fourths cup flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
sugar. Add gradually one-half cup milk, one egg, well beaten, one 
tablespoon olive oil. Shape, using a hot timbale iron. Fry in deep 
fat until crisp and brown. Take from iron and invert on brown 
paper to drain. Hazel Bisbee (Pi). 

131 



132 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Avis Ward's Butter Scotch Pie 
1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg, reserving the white for top of pie 
Cook in double boiler, turn into crust already baked, cover with 
the beaten white of egg, sweetened with one tablespoon sugar. 
Brown lightly. Louise Cady Loft (Lambda). 

Mock Cherry Pie 

1 cup cranberries, cut in halves lengthwise 
3^ cup seeded raisins, chopped fine 
1 tablespoon flour 1 cup sugar 

Mix together the flour and sugar. Then add the fruit and pour 

over it one-half cup boiling water. Add one teaspoon vanilla. 

Bake in two crusts. Lima Dickinson (Rho Sigma). 

Chocolate Cream Pie 

Bake a crust and fill with cream filling made as follows: 
^ cup granulated sugar 

yolks 2 eggs 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

butter size of walnut 2 cups sweet milk 

Mix together and boil to a smooth cream. Then add one teaspoon 
of vanilla and one square of grated chocolate. Let this come to a 
boil and fill crust. Cover top with whites of two eggs, well beaten, 
two tablespoons powdered sugar, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Let 
this brown in a quick oven. Bess Wilde (Pi). 

Cocoanut Cream Filling for One Pie 

% cup milk ]/2 teaspoon butter 

% cup sugar 1 egg yolk 

1 level tablespoon flour 
3 tablespoons grated cocoanut 
)/2 teaspoon vanilla 
1 egg while, reserved for meringue 
Mix llie butler, sugar and flour, then the beaten egg yolk, and 
slowly add the milk. Cook, stirring carefully until. thick, remove 



PIES AND PASTRY 133 

from fire and add cocoanut and vanilla. Place in baked crust. 
Cover with a meringue made of the egg white, beaten until stiff and 
sweetened witli one tablespoon sugar. Bake until a delicate brown. 

Elizabeth Hinshaw (Iota). 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 

{Large Recipe) 

\}/2 tablespoons butter 

^ cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour 

1 pint sweet milk 1 cup cocoanut 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix sugar, yolks of eggs and flour. Put milk in double boiler 
with butter and when hot stir in other ingredients. Cook until 
thick, stirring constantly. 

Alice Moss (Mu). 

Cream Pie 

Bake a crust, put layer of walnut fneats in bottom and fill with 
cream filling, made as follows: 

2 cups milk 1 egg 

1 large tablespoon flour 3^ cup sugar 

Cook until thick and smooth. Cover top of pie with whipped 
cream and dots of jelly. 

Patroness of Pi Chapter. 

Cream Pie 

Scald one large cup milk with small piece of butter. 

Thicken with one-half cup of sugar and heaping teaspoon flour 
and yolks of three eggs. Stir until smooth over slow fire. Add 
teaspoon vanilla. 

Fill baked crust and beat the whites of three eggs stiff with two 
tablespoons sugar and spread on top. Brown in oven. If desired 
spread layer of fresh peaches or bananas or berries in crust and put 
cream filling on top of fruit. 

Marion Gaylord Kellogg (Lambda Nu). 



134 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Sour Cream Pie 

1 cup sugar 

1 cup sour cream yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup raisins J^ teaspoon cloves 

Beat all together and bake in an under crust. Make a meringue 
of the whites and brown. 

Blanch M. Harris (Lambda). 

Fruit Pie 

1 cup sweet cream 1 cup chopped raisins 

^ cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sugar pinch of salt 

4 eggs, whites reserved for meringue 
Bake in slow oven. When done spread over the top a meringue 
made of the stiffly beaten whites, to which has been slowly added 
three-fourths cup sugar and one-half teaspoon of lemon juice. Dust 
thickly with sugar and set in open oven until slightly browned. 

Isabel Cunningham Parks (Omega). 



Jelly Pie 

2 eggs Y2 cup milk 

1 cup sugar Yi cup jelly 

Y2 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks, jelly, milk, and last 
the well beaten whites of the eggs and vanilla. Bake with one crust. 

Ethel ElHott Swan (Tau). 



Jelly Pudding Pie 

5 eggs 2 cups sugar 

1 cup of any acid jelly Y2 pound butter 

Beat butter and sugar together, add jelly, then the eggs, nutmeg 
and extract of lemon to taste. Bake in an open crust. 
This makes a large pie. 

Mabel M. Reese (Psi). 



PIES AND PASTRY 135 

Lemon Pie 
2 cups sugar 3 egg yolks 

2 lemons, juice and grated rind 

2 heaping tablespoons cornstarch, dissolved in a little water 
Have ready two cups boiling water, add sugar, yolks and lemon, 
well beaten, then add dissolved cornstarch and cook until thick. 
Take from stove and beat in a piece of butter and fill crusts which 
have already been baked. Use three egg whites for meringue. 
This makes two pies. Grace Ware Chambers (Lambda) . 

Lemon Pie 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

1 heaping tablespoon flour yolks 2 eggs and 1 whole 

1 cup water egg 

2 lemons, j uice and grated rind salt 

Mix flour and sugar. Add water and lemons and well beaten 
eggs. Cook in double boiler until thick. Stir in butter as it is taken 
from stove. Pour in baked crust and make a meringue of the whites 
of the eggs, beaten stiff with two tablespoons of powdered sugar. 
Brown the meringue in a slow oven. 

Grace Tennant Adams (Lambda). 

Lemon Pie 
yi pound butter 4 eggs 

}/i pound sugar 2 lemons 

4 large sour apples, grated 
Beat butter to a cream, add sugar and yolks beaten light, grated 
apple and lemon rind. Bake in rich paste. Beat whites stiff, add 
one-half cup sugar and juice of one-half lemon. Put this in crusts 
and let brown. This makes two pies. Psi. 

' Lemon Pie 

3 eggs pinch of salt 

1 tablespoon cornstarch juice Yi lemon 

1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons boihng water 

Beat yolks with one tablespoon cornstarch and one-half cup 
sugar, stir in lemon juice and grated rind, add boihng water and cook 
in double boiler until thick. Then stir in beaten whites plus remain- 
der of sugar. Pour this into under crust and put in hot oven for five 
minutes. Anne Puffer Taylor (Lambda Nu). 



136 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Lemon Pie 
Yolks of 4 eggs 1 cup sugar 

Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 
Cook in a double boiler and stir until the mixture falls thick ofif 
the spoon. 

Fold in the beaten whites and fill baked crust and brown in a hot 
oven. Minnie Stinchfield Brown (Lambda Nu). 

Make-Shift Pie 

1 glass grape jelly 

1 apple sUced H cup boiling water 

1 cup raisins 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

^ cup chopped nuts 1 lemon 

Melt jelly in saucepan, add sliced apple, raisins, nuts, water, 
lemon, lastly the cornstarch, dissolved in a little water. Cook 
all until it begins to thicken. When cool put in pastry lined dish with 
a top crust. Bake thirty minutes. Hazel Williams (Omega). 

Orange Pie 
Take the grated rind and juice of two large oranges, yolks of two 
eggs, one cup sugar, two tablespoons cornstarch and one cup boiling 
water. Cook over hot water, then pour into baked crust, cover 
with the beaten whites of two eggs, sweetened. Lightly brown in 
oven. Ahce Bean Fraser (Lambda). 

Peach Pie 

Shce one dozen fresh peaches. One cup sugar (more if peaches 
are sour). Bake with under crust and tart strips across the top. 
Use whipped cream with this if desired. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Pumpkin Pie 

1 cup pumpkin 3^ cup sugar * 

1 cup sweet milk 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon each of ginger and cinnamon 
Beat eggs separately. Heat mixture and add whites, beating 
thoroughly. Elsie Irwin Sovereign (Sigma) . 



PIES AND PASTRY 137 

Pumpkin Pie 

1 cup cream 1 egg 

1 cup canned pumpkin 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Y2 cup sugar Y2 teaspoon ginger 

grating of nutmeg over top 
Bake one hour in moderate oven. 

Alice Scott Ellis (Lambda, Xi, Upsilon). 

Lemon Tarts 

1 lemon, juice and rind 

1 egg 1 cup sugar 

Beat all together. Line patty pans with rich paste. Put a 
tablespoon of the mixture in each one and bake in a hot oven. 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

German Torte 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Yi cup sugar Y cup nuts 

1 heaping tablespoon flour Y cup dates 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
Beat eggs until lemon colored and somewhat thickened as for 
sponge cake. Add sugar and beat well. Add flour mixed with 
baking powder. Add nuts and dates. Bake in rather quick oven. 
Serve hot or cold with whipped cream. 

Charlotte Gabelein (Alpha Zeta) . 

Banberry Tarts 

1 cup chopped raisins 
1 cup sugar 

butter size of English walnut 
pinch of salt 

juice of 1 lemon and grated rind 
Cook ten minutes, just before removing from fire beat in two 
eggs. 

Cut pie crust into large cookie sizes, fill with above filling, fold 
over crust, and bake about ten minutes. 

Anne Puffer Taylor (Lambda Nu). 



138 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Banberry Tarts 
1 cup raisins 

1 cup sugar 

rind and juice of 1 lemon 

2 large crackers rolled fine 
2 ounces citron, cut fine 

Cook together and put in pastry squares and bake. 

Fresh Fruit Tarts 

Line muffin tins with pie crust, for individual pies. When done 
fill with any fresh fruit, as strawberries, raspberries, etc. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda Nu). 

Pumpkin Pie 

1 large can pumpkin Y2 teaspoon ginger 

1 cup milk Y2 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg Y2 teaspoon salt 



§ cup sugar 



Add to unbaked crust and bake about three-fourths hour. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Raisin Cream Pie 

Y2 cup sugar Y cup butter 

yolks 2 eggs 1 tablespoon flour 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 small cup chopped raisins 
Mix together, put in double boiler and cook until creamy. Pour 
into baked crust. Beat whites of two eggs with one tablespoon 
sugar for meringue and spread on pie. Place in hot oven to brown. 

Lotta Linder Clark (Lambda). 

Rhubarb Pie 

\Yi cups rhubarb, cut in small pieces 
1 scant cup sugar 1 egg 

1 tablespoon flour bits of butter 

Mix sugar and flour, add beaten egg and rhubarb, put in crust 
and dot with bits of butter before adding upper crust. 

Lois Tennant Pennock (Lambda). 



PIES AND PASTRY 139 

Swiss Pie 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon almond extract 

1 cup sugar 1 cup English walnuts, 

2 egg yolks chopped fine 
2 tablespoons flour 

Mix eggs and sugar and add flour. Then scald milk and add 
ingredients except nuts. Cook like custard and add nuts and put 
in a baked pie crust. When cold serve with whipped cream. 

Leonora Mann (Lambda Nu). 

Transparent Pie 

2)4, cups brown sugar yolks 7 eggs 

^ cup butter nutmeg 

Wash salt from butter, cream it with sugar, add eggs, and beat 
all very thoroughly. Season with nutmeg and bake in one crust. 
Have slow fire. This makes two pies. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda Nu). 

Filling for Pies 

All berry pies need flour or corn flakes for thickening. Rasp- 
berry filling requires one cup sugar and one-fourth cup flour. Always 
flour crust under filling. 

Berry pies bake slowly. Others bake in quick oven. 

Chess Pie Filling 

yolks of 3 eggs 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sugar vanilla 

}/2 cup butter 2 tablespoons hot water 

Add this fiUing to individual pie crust. 

Frosting 

whites of 2 eggs — not watery 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 
brown in moderate oven. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 



140 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Chess Cakes 
Boil one pound sugar and one pint water fifteen minutes. Add 
one-half box grated cocoanut, boil again fifteen minutes, then stir 
in one-fourth pound butter and yolks of seven eggs, beaten. Fill 
patties lined with puff paste and bake until crust is done in moderate 
oven. Jessie Moore Sanders (Kappa). 

Filling for Mince Pies 

1 cup chopped meat ]/^ cup suet or butter 

2 cups chopped apple 1 cup brown sugar 
Yi cup raisins, cut and seeded 1 teaspoon salt 

Yi cup currants, cut and seeded 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup cider, or pickle juice 1 citron, shredded 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind 1 teaspoon allspice 

Florence Winterer (Lambda). 

Mincemeat 

3 bowls finely chopped meat (boiled beef) 
5 bowls finely chopped apples 

5 bowls sugar, or 4 sugar and 1 molasses 

1 bowl vinegar 2 tablespoons cloves 

1 bowl cider 1 tablespoon nutmeg 

1 bowl chopped suet 1 tablespoon salt 

2 bowls raisins 1 tablespoon pepper 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 

3 lemons (outside grated, and juice squeezed) 

If juice from sweet pickles is available, add it instead of part of 
the sugar and vinegar. Clara King Allen (Lambda Nu). 

English Mincemeat 

Uncooked, Without Meat 
114. pounds suet, chopped fine 
IH pounds chopped apples 
1 pound raisins 
13^2 pounds brown sugar 

Y pound candied peel (lemon or orange), cut fine 
Steam slightly. 



PIES AND PASTRY 141 

2 lemons, rind grated and juice 
2 oranges, grated rind and juice 
3^ teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice, ginger and 

nutmeg 
3<^ teaspoon salt 
6 tablespoons brandy or sherry 
Store in sterilized fruit jars and seal. As it is very rich, make in 
individual pies, as in muffin tins. 

Margaret Monroe Williamson (Lambda Nu). 

German Tomato Mincemeat 

Chop fine one peck of green tomatoes, pour off juice and add as 
much water as juice. Scald in this water and pour off liquid, repeat 
process and drain. Add: 

5 pounds brown sugar 2 tablespoons salt 

2 pounds raisins 1 cup finely chopped suet 

Boil slowly about four hours and add one cup vinegar. When 
cold add two tablespoons each of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg. 

Ehzabeth C. Irwin (Rho Sigma). 



CAKES 

Angel Cake 
whites 10 cgKa 1 cup flour 

IM cups sup;ur Yz teaspoon cream of tartar 

Sift flour Ave times. Sift sufj;ar. lieat epigs about half and add 
cream of tarl-ar. . l^eat imtil very stiff. Stir in suf2;ar and then flour 
very lightly. Bake in moderate oven from thirty-five to fifty min- 
utes. Norma E. Sammons (Omicron). 

Mock Angel Cake 

Sift together four times, one cup flour, one cup sugar, and three 
teaspoons baking powder. 

Boil one cup \\\\\k, ])()ur slowly into the mixed ingredients. To this 
add the beaten whites of two eggs. Flavor with one teaspoon vanilla. 
Bake in round tin in medium oven. Blanche McMahon (Rho). 

Apple Sauce Cake 
2 cups flour 1 cup sugar 

1/2 cup shortening, butter and lard 

1 cup chopped raisins 1 cup sour apple sauce 

1 cup currants 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

^ cup (ihopped luits 3^2 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon soda 1 pinch salt 

Mix as any butter cake. Bake in a loaf forty-five minutes. 

Jessie Ware I;ibby (Ivamlxla). 

Chocolate Apple Sauce Cake 

23^ cups apple sauce, hot or cold, but unsweetened 

1 cup and 2 tablespoons shortening 

1 pound raisins 4 teaspoons soda 

1 pound mits 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon (^iimainon 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 teaspoon cloves 

4 cups flour (or enough for stiff batter) 

142 



CAKES 143 

Enough ground sweet chocolate to make the color of dark fruit 
cake. 

Bake in single loaf bread pans in slow oven forty-five to sixty 
minutes. 

This makes two large loaves, but is a delicious and splendid keeper. 

May Elliott Bostwick (Beta Sigma). 

Blackberry Jam Cake 
1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

13^ teaspoons baking powder Ij^ cups flour 
3^ teaspoon cloves 3 teaspoons cream 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup blackberry jam 

K cup butter ^^.^ jy g Robertson (Phi Omega). 

Burnt Leather Cake 
13/^ cups sugar 1 cup cold water 

3^ cup butter 23^ cui)s flour 

yolks 2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 teaspoons baking powder whites 3 eggs 

3 or 4 tablespoons ])urnt sugar syrup 

Burnt sugar: Take two cups sugar, put in a pan and set on stove 
until brown, stirring all the time, then add about three-fourths cup 
of water and let (!ook up like a syrup. 

Kathleen Rogers (Gamma). 

Cherry and Cocoanut Cake 

1 cup sugar 1 cup pastry flour 
3^ cup butter 1 cup cocoanut 
14 cup milk whites 4 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar. Add milk, then flour in which baking 
powder has been sifted. Add cocoanut and well beaten eggs. Add 
one-half teaspoon flavoring. 

For frosting, whip one cup cream and add one-fourth cup sugar 
and on(>-lialf cup candicnl cherries, chopped fine. This cake is best 
if served the day it is iuad(^ 

Eleanor Dickinson Tate (Lambda Nu). 



144 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Cake 

1 tablespoon butter or Crisco 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs (save 1 white for frosting) 
1 square chocolate 
% cup milk 1 cup flour 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
Bake in long pan. JuUa B. Gould (Lambda). 

Chocolate Cake No. 1 

2 eggs vanilla 
cream 1 cup flour 
1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
}/2 teaspoon salt 2 squares chocolate 

)4: cup hot water 
Break eggs into measuring cup, fill the cup with cream. Add 
other ingredients, and lastly, the chocolate, dissolved in hot water. 
This is a very good plain cake without the chocolate. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Chocolate Cake No. 2 

^ cup butter 

11^ cups sugar 2 cups flour 

1 cup sweet milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

whites of 4 eggs (in chocolate cake 2 whole eggs may be used) 
3^ cake chocolate, melted 
Cream butter and sugar, add milk, mix flour and baking powder 
before adding to mixture. Beat whites, then add to mixture. Add 
chocolate last. This makes good white cake if chocolate is omitted. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Chocolate Cake 

1 cup sugar 1 square chocolate 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup flour 

Cream sugar and egg, beaten, add cup of milk. Then add flour, 
baking powder and soda sifted together. While mixing cake, melt 



CAKES 145 

butter and chocolate together. Add this to batter. Bake about 
twenty minutes. 
Frosting : 

6 tablespoons sugar 6 tablespoons cream 

13^ squares chocolate 
Boil for seven minutes. Stir until smooth. Pour over cake. 

Corn Starch Cake 

1 cup flour Yi teaspoon soda 

1 cup cornstarch Flavor with lemon or van- 

whites of 4 eggs ilia 

1 cup sugar 
Y2 cup butter 
Yi cup sweet milk 
Y2 teaspoon cream of tartar (Pi). 

Corn Starch Cake 

whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a froth 

Y2 cup butter 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sweet milk flavor with lemon 

Yi cup cornstarch 



(Pi). 



Date Cake 



\Yi pounds dates, stoned 

Y2 pound walnuts 1 cup flour 

2 rounding teaspoons baking powder 

Y teaspoon salt V16 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sugar 4 eggs 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Leave dates and walnuts as near whole as possible. Sift dry 
ingredients over dates and nuts. Separate eggs, beat yolks very light, 
add to mixture, then add whites, beaten very light. Add last the 
vanilla. Let stand for few days before serving. Cut in very thin 
slices and cover with powdered sugar. A good cake for reserve. 

Adelaide Miller (Omega). 



146 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Date Cake 
1 cup dates, picked in pieces 1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon soda 1 egg 

1 cup boiling water 13^ cups flour 

1 tablespoon butter ^ cup walnut meats 

Sprinkle soda over dates and add hot water. Let them stand 
while mixing the remainder of cake and add last. 

Jo Pierce (Alpha Zeta). 

Devil's Food 

1 egg, beaten 1 cup thick sour cream 

1 cup sugar * 1}^ cups flour 

2 squares chocolate, dissolved in 
3/^ cup boiUng water 

1 even teaspoon soda, added to cream 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Gail H. Luther (Lambda). 

Devil's Food Cake 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sour milk 3^ cup chocolate 

Cream butter and sugar, then the beaten eggs, add the sour milk 
and soda alternately with the flour. Then at the last add the melted 
chocolate. Bake in loaf. Ruth Wortman (Eta). 

Devil's Food Cake 

3^ cake grated chocolate 

1 teaspoon soda 
}/2 cup hot water 

Mix well and let stand until cake is mixed. 

2 cups brown sugar 2 eggs, beaten together 
3^ cup butter, creamed well ^ cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon each ground cinnamon, allspice and cloves 
23^ cups flour 
Bake in layers. Louise Riggs (Theta). 



CAKES 147 

Devil's Food Cake with Black Walnuts 

6 tablespoons chocolate, dissolved in 5 tablespoons boiling 

water 
4 eggs beaten separately 3^ cup butter 

114, cups sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3/2 cup sweet milk 
Cream butter, add sugar, add egg yolks, stir in chocolate, add milk, 
then flour and whites of eggs alternately, sifting in baking powder 
with teaspoon flour, add vanilla and a cup of black walnut meats. 
Bake in layers put together with: 

Mocha Icing 

cream butter size of egg 2 tablespoons cocoa 

2 cups powdered sugar 
Mix well, then moisten with hot or cold clear coffee until of a 
consistency to spread. 

Margaret Jayne (Tau). 

Eggless Cake 

1 cup sugar 1 cup sour milk 

1 tablespoon lard 1 teaspoon soda 

little salt 2 scant cups flour 

1 cup raisins, or half nuts and raisins 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Easy White Cake 

Place the unbeaten whites of two eggs in a measuring cup. 
Fill to one-half with melted butter, then fill to the top with milk. Add 
114 cups flour 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar 
Beat all these together for five minutes or more, as the success 
of this cake depends upon the beating. 

Dorette John (Iota). 



'1M DIOI/rA (JAMMA OOOK HOOK 



Fruit Cake 



1 cup Hutr^nr 1 (uip buUnr 

1 (!up iri<)lnws(^M 4 c^KS 

2^2 t" 2;*.f cups flour 
1 tc'UHpoon Hoda, dissolved in inolassofl 
1 icuHpooii (',1()V(5H, cinniunon, allspico and nuiniog 
I2 pound l)lan(!h(Ml almonds, I 2. pound <;ilTon, 1 pound raisins 
1 t(\aspoon (trivitn of l,ar(.ar in (lour 
Bake two or thnu- hours. Makcis about six pounds. 

Maudo Stodinan (^in-tis (Oino^a). 

Fruit Cake Without Eggs 

1 cup brown suj^ar 1 toaspon soda 

1 (Mip .sour milk I cup raisins 

2 (Mips (lour 1 teaspoon cloves 

4 tablespoons melUid butter 1 teaspoon (iinnamon 

1 teaspoon mil iiief:;, or mace nuts 

Cornelia Lindsey (Kappa). 

Fruit Cake 

1 pound btilier 10 eggs 

1 pound su;;;ar 2 pounds raisins 

1 pound sliellcnl pecans 

1 pound blanched almonds 

1 |)oiind crystaUized pineapple 

1 pound (M'yslalli/,(nl cluMiies 

1^2 pound citron ^ teaspoon cloves 

1 («>aspoon a,llspi(ui 1 grated mitnu^g 

1 pound Hour, sifted 5 limes 

1 cup b(\s|, fruit jui(u^ 
Add spices to flour; add the flour to creamed bulier, sugar and 
eggs; flour Ihe fruit well and .'uld to above mixf ure. Add fruit juice 
last. Steam four hours, and bak»> one hour. Leave the cherries 
whole. The small jiiiiounl of (lour only binds fogelluT the fruit. 

Mrs. Mary (■omfort 1 Leonard 
(One of Delta (lamnm's Founders). 



Gold Cake (Loaf or Layer) 

yolkH S ^'.t!;^r,t^, or \) if small y^ (Jup sweot, milk 

1 rup Hup;iir VA cups (lour 

2 tciispooiis h.'ikin^!; powder 3^ cii|) hul.l.cr, sciini, 
3^ ti^jispooM salt viinilla and liMiion 

Heal, yollcH thoroughly; (ircam butter and su^ar; udd milk, then 
Hour, sifted four or five times with hakin^f powder and salt. Flavor 
and heiit lli()roup;hly. Mrs. ('ha,rl«\s Loring (liamhda). 

Jennie's Roll Jelly Cake 

:i eggs, l)eat(ui very light H spoon salt 

1 eup sugar 1 (Uij) Hour 

',\ cookspoons wat(n- vanilla or lemon 

2 lioaping tcjaspoons baking powder 

Biiki) in thin shoot, sproad with j(;lly and roll while warm. 

Louise Ca-dy Loft (Lambda, Nu). 

Lemon Cake 

13^ (Hips granulated sugar 
1 cup butter 1 cup milk 

yolks of 7 (^ggs, whites of 'I, beaten together 
A t<Mispoons baking powder ^y^ ^"'Pf' fh>ur 

Hake in loaf or layers. 

Filling and Icing 

Whites of thnu', <^ggs, grated rind and juiite of two h-mons, two 
pounds pulverized sugar. Mix all together without berating. 

lOlba Fickol (Theta). 

Molasses Layer Cake 

'A <^ggH, heaving oiil, 2 whitirs for frosting 
3^ cup butt(U- 1 i(!aspoon soda 

1 cup sugar 2 cups Hour 

3^ cup molasHes I teaspoon cinnamon 

3^2 <"'P wool' '•>>"< yz toanpoon nutmeg 

J Jake in two layers. 

Alcotta (Jilbert Clarke (Lambda Nu). 



150 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

English Nut Cake 

1 scant cup buttermilk 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 
Yi cup butter ^ teaspoon nutmeg 
yolks of 5 eggs 1 pound raisins 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 pound English walnuts 2 teaspoons brandy 

Bake about forty minutes in a medium oven, 

Gladys Lee (Theta). 

One Egg Cake 
l/€ cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter, rounded 1 cup milk 

1 egg salt 

2y2 cups flour flavoring 

Cream butter and sugar gradually, then add well beaten egg. 
Sift dry ingredients together and alternate with liquid. All measure- 
ments are level. 

Margaret Monroe Williamson (Lambda). 

Orange Cake 

1 cup granulated sugar Yi teaspoon cream tartar 

5 eggs flavor with lemon juice 

1 cup flour 
Beat eggs separately. Sift into beaten whites one-half cup 
sugar. Beat remainder of sugar into yolks. Slowly add yolks to 
whites. Fold in flour, cream of tartar and flavoring. Bake in two 
layers in moderate oven, about twenty minutes. 

Fillmg 
Make one-half cup custard milk, sugar and cornstarch; add 
one-half cup orange marmalade. Spread between layers. 

Make icing of confectioner's sugar and lemon juice. Spread on 
top and sides. 

Decorate with small pieces of the rind picked out from the 
marmalade and cut in small pieces. (Candied orange peel may be 
used but it is not so delicate.) 

Ina Firkins (Lambda). 



CAKES 151 

Orange Cake 

1 small half cup butter 

2 cups sugar 2 cups flour 
yolks of 5 eggs and whites of 4 

Y2 cup water 3^ teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

grated rind and juice of 1 orange 
Beat butter to cream. Add sugar gradually, then orange, eggs 
beaten, water and flour in which the soda and cream of tartar have 
been mixed. Bake in layers. 



Orange Sponge Cake 
6 eggs 

the weight of the eggs in sugar 
half their weight in flour 
the grated rind of an orange 
2 tablespoons orange juice 
Beat the yolks until thick and Hght in color. Gradually beat in 
the sugar and grated rind and juice of the orange. Beat the whites 
until dry. Cut and fold half of them into the cake mixture, then 
cut and fold in half of the flour, then the' other half of the whites and 
the other half of the flour. Bake in a moderate oven about thirty 
minutes. 

Helen Butler (Kappa). 



Orange Sponge Cake 

1 cup granulated sugar 
\\i cups flour 

4 eggs, beat white and yolks separately 
pinch salt 

rind of 1 orange, 4 tablespoons juice 
add whites last 
Bake thirty or forty minutes. 

Leulah Hawley (Lambda Nu). 



152 IMOI/I'A «UMI\tA I'OOIv HOOK 

'2 (nipN li^lll liinwii MII|JrMI' 

A r»M»l. cmKo w\vo(»I «'Iu»ooIhIo 

1 iMip inii tiirnlH I <mi|i mcil polMlurM 

'2 IMIpM lloMI ' Vl •'"!' "Wn^l IMlIk 

\o1Kr oI' r» lllltl wIlllOM ul l\ ('gJJM 

2 rounding; ((^MMpnoim t)MKiti)jr powiliM- 

^<i (riuipouii riirli itiiliMop., oluvivi ntitl tMiin.>in\tin 
loiuoii nr VMiiillit oxlrncl 
lliiKo in liiytM'H ill ii inodonilo ovni I 'mo whilo or cIiocoImN' iiMiiK. 

NvWw Mmiv OIxm 0'l>«^fi»). 

yuUU (.'txhr 
I llOMpillg Ollp tlolir 1 Irvrl t'Mp ^11^,01' 

t licMpiiiK (onnptton l)!iKii)g powtld- 
Hif(> (Imv<o (o^.oIIkm'. I'iiI loiii' (ttltloMpooMM iitrllcil ImlltM iii llti^ 
bolioiti of nimiKuriiiK oiip, Itroivk in (wo o^^m iiiiiI till (Mip up with milk. 
INmr inio tirv iiifijodiooln iind lu^d woll. Mnvor itiid hnKr in IwomiumII 
liivoiH idtoul Iwrnlv li\o niiiudow. (loud lor \ot\ omKo.m. 

Sudir ( 'oi Ix'l Solliy ( I 'P''''<"'^' 

Koih .1 UniMin CrtUo 

OoVt^r Olio OUp miwinM wilh lutilmf). wmIti' ntid mhui\(M Iwcnly 
luimitPM. (N»ol, drnin nod nMvc wmIim, 

U OUp l)U(l(M I 

Vi OUp wugnr, I 
Addoiiol>otvlonon.|j,.ouo 1\mH (MiprniMinwnltM'.omMnidlluor qtinihMj^ 
OUpr* Hour, (cMMpooo nodi), lilllo niitturf)., «Mi\tiMi))ou. tu«l m:\1I. Add 
rmHillM «lnMlH«'d Wllh Momo ol I he llom UmKo u\ ;;ti\MlI l>t»\Md pMn. 
Mnkrrt rtdlu>i m rtiuMll IomI 

I oiM I'tMHiMiil I'rnnvn'K v' •'>">l'*l'»^- 

Kihbou (.'rtlip 

I'pO Ml'M. Podd'M ViMMpI^ I'or \vl»ill< OmKp t\\u\ !\^\y\ ;l lull <Mlp of 
ol>o|n>(^l i!Unll\M. im\od Willi ,\ 111 do lliUM, ;n\d I>mKo \\\ Imvois. I'"or 



TAKMM 103 

tlnvK |>Mi( wn" tliooifiht yollowf* loft fn>m »l\ilos, M«KUugoMo whoU'r^.^; 
boMt u\\\\\ hf.\h( :\\u\ m»M (\vt» imuvh Nugar tlnm>uni>l^v oivnino*! with oxw 
full «nip ol" l>\>lt»M-, (o[\v »n«pM of .'til'toil thmv l\Mviu><; M«hlo«l (wo loMM|u>our< 

1>mK»11>^ poWiltM'. MM(1 (luOO llMUlhM (MJ|> WtUoi'. To (l\tM l»Mt(«M' !Uhl 

oiuM'ouvth pound oitix^n, ono oup ol\opp(ul pomnf*. o«u> (oMipoou 
tS'ioh po\V(l«M(^l olovoM, oii\t»uu\>u fn\«l nlbipioo. I«muoi\ n\u\ \i\\\\\\:\ 
oxhnol. HmKo n\ Imvcmm t\\u\ put (nm^lhor \\\[\\ \vl\tlo Imvoim \v»(U 
boilotl ioing, 

MvM N\ol<l» l>o<l«l (Omj^ of l'\Mm«l«MM of PcKm (5.'nu)>\jO. 

Spt>UKf' ^'.mUo 
5^ op;p.f< 1 tOMMpoou oitv'uu of (Mrtnr 

I 0\lp MU^Ml" ^<j (OIVMpOOU MOiltl 

\Ui oupM iloui Uj (Mjp nt>l(l wrtitM' 

U«>mI :«ip.Mr Mu»l vollvM of op;p.M tiniil lip.lU. Add \vt>l(M' tu\d flour. 
iM'oMui of Imi'Imv !>if((^l \u llour. mxl.'i in \vm((m-. IW^mI until vor^' light, 
l.nj^dy ndd whdtvi 1m\'iIou ;i(ilT. HmKo (wrulv Mui\ulort, 

({r.'U'o ( "t>uM(M'M Notion vl fuuhdn NuV 

Spt»nj.*r i'txho 

■\ o^!.fj.;i, Hopamlo Mm! lu^nt (lio noIIvi with 
I oup !iup.Mf uulil v<M'v linht 
i\[U\ l\ InhltvipoottM cold wmIiM" 

'Vnlv IllC.'l'iUIUIp, (Mip .Mild pul \\\ '^^ tOHHpOOII mlt, l'.l (CMftpOOUM 

hMivMifj, po\vd«>r Mud 1 ' v l.'d>l(vipoouM ooruHlMii'h. I''ill up «Mip wilh 
llo\U' wrll Miflod. Slil' mII logodior, i\^\i\ tho hctdru wludvi tiiid ou<» 

ti'MMpOOU VMUilla. 

Al»Molult>ly rt'linhlo foi' roll jolly onUi'' or willi muv IroMlnifj. do.uuod. 
nillvo »'f'»i7 nlowly, NiiiM W'lnjiurt ^,SluiU{i), 

lh»l Widni Si»ouf?o Crtlio 

12 OKHi'^ I cup llour 

1 otip NUgnr Wj (Mip ItoilliiH \vnl«>r 

I h<>iipin^ ioiiMpoon luiKiuf). powdrr 
llMvo^•i^^^);, prrfeinhly nliuoud 
\\',\\\ti nhout oui^ half hour, in ii uiodiUMi o\ on, 

.Itilirtio ( lidivi (Sinnin). 



152 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Potato Cake 
2 cups light brown sugar 
J^ cup butter 
5 cent cake sweet chocolate 

1 cup nut meats 1 cup riced potatoes 

2 cups flour 3^ cup sweet milk 
yolks of 5 and whites of 3 eggs 

2 rounding teaspoons baking powder 
}4 teaspoon each nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon 
lemon or vaniUa extract 
Bake in layers in a moderate oven. Use white or chocolate icing. 

NeUie Mary Ober (Theta). 

Quick Cake 
1 heaping cup flour 1 level cup sugar 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
Sift these together. Put four tablespoons melted butter in the 
bottom of measuring cup, break in two eggs and fill cup up with milk. 
Pour into dry ingredients and beat well. Flavor and bake in two small 
layers about twenty-five minutes. Good for tea cakes. 

Sadie Corbet Selby (Upsilon). 

Boiled Raisin Cake 

(Cheap and Good) 

Cover one cup raisins with boihng water and simmer twenty 

minutes. Cool, drain and save water. 

V^ cup butter ) 

^, > cream 

%[ cup sugar, j 

Add one beaten egg, one-half cup raisin water, one and three-quarters 

cups flour, teaspoon soda, Uttle nutmeg, cinnamon, and salt. Add 

raisins dredged with some of the flour. Bake in small bread pan. 

Makes rather a small loaf. 

Lois Tennant Pennock (Lambda). 

Ribbon Cake 
Use Mrs. Dodd's recipe for white cake and add a full cup of 
chopped raisins, mixed with a little flour, and bake in laj^ers. For 



CAKES 153 

dark part use the eight yellows left from whites, adding one whole egg; 
beat until light and add two cups sugar thoroughly creamed with one 
full cup of butter, four cups of sifted flour having added two teaspoons 
baking powder, and three-fourths cup water. To this batter add 
one-fourth pound citron, one cup chopped pecans, one teaspoon 
each powdered cloves, cinnamon and allspice, lemon and vanilla 
extract. Bake in layers and put together with white layers with 
boiled icing. 

Eva Webb Dodd (One of Founders of Delta Gamma). 

Sponge Cake 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 cup sugar 3^ teaspoon soda 

13^ cups flour y^ cup cold water 

Beat sugar and yolks of eggs until hght. Add water and flour, 
cream of tartar sifted in flour, soda in water. Beat until very hght. 
Lastly add whites beaten stiff. Bake twenty minutes. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Sponge Cake 

4 eggs, separate and beat the yolks with 

1 cup sugar until very light 
add 3 tablespoons cold water 

Take measuring cup and put in 34 teaspoon salt, V/i teaspoons 
baking powder and 13^2 tablespoons cornstarch. Fill up cup with 
flour well sifted. Stir all together, add the beaten whites and one 
teaspoon vanilla. 

Absolutely rehable for roll jelly cake or with any frosting desired. 
Bake very slowly. Nina Winans (Sigma). 

Hot Water Sponge Cake 

2 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 3^ cup boiling water 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
flavoring, preferably almond 
Bake about one-half hour, in a medium oven. 

Juhette Gates (Sigma). 



156 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

White Cake 
1)4, cups sugar 1 cup milk 

}/2 cup butter whites 4 eggs 

3 cups flour, sifted before measuring 
\]/2 teaspoons baking powder 

Margaret Banta (Theta). 

White Cake 
1 packed cup butter 3^ cups flour 

1 scant cup sugar whites 8 eggs 

2 teaspoons Royal baking powder, rounding 

Sift flour and measure. Add baking powder and sift three times. 
Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Beat whites lightly but not to 
a stiff froth. Mix in flour and eggs and then water. Flavor with one 
teaspoon lemon and one teaspoon vanilla. If baked in loaf, have 
oven warmer to begin with and gradually increase heat. It takes one 
hour. This will make three or four layers. 

Eva Webb Dodd (A Founder of Delta Gamma). 

White Cake 

H cup sugar U^.^^. ^^^u i^ cup sugar 

14: cup butter J '' Y2 cup milk 

add 2 unbeaten eggs and beat again 
\yi cups pastry flour measured after sifting 

3 level teaspoons baking powder 
vanilla 

Bake in shallow pan twenty-five minutes. 

Grace T. Adams (Lambda). 

Drop Cakes 

Cocoa Tea Cakes 

1 cup sugar Y2 cup cornstarch 
3^ cup butter }/i cup cocoa 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Y2 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y2 cup flour 
Sprinkle with nuts and bake in gem pans. (Pi). 



CAKES 157 

Ginger Cakes 

^ cup butter or lard Yi cup molasses 

}/2 cup sugar and 1 egg 2 cups flour 

3^ cup sour milk or buttermilk 

1 teaspoon soda, good measure 

Bake in shallow tin and cut in squares. Sprinkle with sugar before 
baking. Gertrude Willard Phisterer (Chi Upsilon). 

Mary Anns 

2 eggs, beaten ^ cup flour 

1 cup brown sugar small cup walnuts 
yi teaspoon baking powder 

Spread very thin and bake in gem pans. Half a walnut on top of 
each improves cakes. Margaret Denfeld Hudson (Lambda). 

Mocha Tart 

V/i cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3/2 cup butter 3^ cup milk 

4 eggs 6 teaspoons coffee extract 

2 cups flour 

Mix in order given and bake in shallow tins. 

Filling 

Add at time of serving. 

Y2 pint of cream (whipped stiff)" 3^ cup sugar 
2 tablespoons of coffee extract 

Nut Brown Tea Cakes 
^ cup butter 



. , \ cream together 

1 cup brown sugar J ° 

1 egg vanilla 

3^ cup sweet milk 2 scant cups flour, sifted 

Y teaspoon soda, dissolved in milk 

Y2 cup chopped walnuts 
Mix in order given, beat well and bake either in small tins or 
dropped from a teaspoon on greased cookie sheet. These are very 
good plain, but may be frosted as desired. They may be varied by 
adding four tablespoons melted chocolate to batter. Very good and 
rehable as well as inexpensive. 

Grace Ware Chambers (Lambda) . 



158 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Sour Cream Drop Cakes 

}/2 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

3/^ cup white sugar J^ teaspoon ginger 

}/2 teaspoon cinnamon 
Mix well, add one egg beaten up in one cup of sour cream to which 
one level teaspoon soda has been added. Add one-fourth cup chopped 
nuts and one-half cup scalded raisins, one cup sifted flour. Bake in 
greased muffin tins. Dorothy Watkins (Kappa). 

Sour Cream Drop Cakes 

1 cup sugar 13^ cups white flour 

2 well beaten eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sour cream 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3^2 teaspoon soda 
Bake in medium oven in gem pans about twenty minutes. 

Katherine Esterly (Beta Sigma). 

Spice Cakes 

1 cup sugar ]/2 cup butter 

3/2 cup thick sour cream ]/^ teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs, beaten well 3^ teaspoon nutmeg 
2 scant cups flour 1 cup raisins 

1 level teaspoon soda • 1 cup English walnuts 
}/^ teaspoon cloves 

Bake in gem pans. Maude Macomber Cuscaden (Kappa). 

Peter Pans ' 

These cakes are delicious for afternoon tea and will keep a long 
time. 

lYz cups dates, cut into large pieces 
13/^ cups walnuts, chopped a little 
114. cups granulated sugar, creamed with 
3/2 cup butter 

2 teaspoons vanilla 1 cup milk 
Y2 teaspoon orange extract 3 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder, sifted in 1% cups white flour 
This makes seventy small cakes. 



CAKES 159 

Add the beaten yolks to the creamed butter and sugar and then 
add nuts, floured dates, extracts, a little milk and a little flour, a 
little more milk and a little more flour until all arc stirred in, then 
add the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Put one teaspoon of batter in 
each well greased cup cake hole of the smallest cup cake pans made, 
bake in medium hot oven eight minutes and last of all shake in a 
bag containing powdered sugar. Ruth Scott Daucer (Xi). 

Rocks, Brownies and Nut Bars 

Brownies 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs, beaten light 

Y2 cup butter 2 squares chocolate 

good sized Yi cup flour 
vanilla and chopped nuts 
Spread thin and bake. Cut like lady fingers while hot. Melt 
butter and chocolate together. 

Margaret Denfeld Hudson (Lambda). 

Nut Bars 

1 cup light l^rown sugar pinch of salt 

1 egg pinch of soda 

1 cup nut meats 5 tablespoons flour 

Break the egg into a dish and beat light, adding sugar gradually. 
Mix soda and salt with flour. Spread very thin in square tins and 
cover with nuts. Bake in a medium oven fifteen minutes. As 
soon as taken from the oven cut into squares, run the knife under- 
neath and remove at once. 

Cora Morrison (Tau Zeta). 

Date Bars 
1 pound dates, stoned 3^ cup water 

Y2 cup sugar 
Cook and mash to jam paste with potato masher. 

2Y2 cups rolled oats 1 cup butter or % cup 

2Y2 cups white flour cooking oil 

Y2 cup cold water 1 cup brown sugar 

yi teaspoon soda 



160 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Cream butter and sugar, add water. Then sift flour with soda 
and add rolled oats. Mix all. Roll thin. Spread one-half of your 
rolled dough with date paste and cover with other one-half of 
rolled dough. Cut in oblong bars and bake in moderate oven ten to 
fifteen minutes. May Elliott Bostwick (Beta Sigma). 

Baked Fudge 

Cook until blended two ounces Baker's chocolate and one-half 
cup melted butter. 

Beat three eggs, add one cup sugar and three-fourths cup 
flour sifted with one-half teaspoon salt and one-half teaspoon baking 
powder. 

Combine these mixtures and add one cup nuts and one teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake in a dripping pan and cut in squares. Bake twenty- 
five minutes in moderate oven. Annabel Carolyn Teal (Phi). 

Oatmeal Hermits 

2 cups oatmeal 1 cup melted shortening 
3^ cup English walnuts 2 weU beaten eggs 

1 cup seeded raisins 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 tablespoon soda, dissolved in 2 cups flour 

6 tablespoons sweet milk 
Put the oatmeal, nuts and raisins through the coarse cutter of 
meat chopper. Mix sugar, shortening and eggs. Add soda, milk, 
flour and spices. Stir in chopped materials. Drop from a dessert 
spoon wet in milk, on tin sheets, having drops about three inches 
apart. Bake in moderately hot oven. Makes about three dozen. 

Mabel Buckley (Tau). 

Rocks 

1 cup butter 1 good tablespoon cold 

13^ cups sugar water 

3 eggs 1 pinch of salt 
3 good cups flour 1 cup dates 

13^ cups walnuts 14, teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon soda in flour 3^ teaspoon allspice 

1 teaspoon cream tartar in flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Chop walnuts and dates. Drop from teaspoon and bake as 
cookies. Florence C. McMillen (Omega). 



CAKES 161 

Chocolate Rocks 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

}/2 cup butter 1 cup nuts 

^/i cup milk 1 cup raisins 

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups flour 2 squares chocolate 

Mix in order given. Add beaten white of egg last. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

Grace T. Adams (Lambda). 

Chocolate Rocks 

^ cup granulated sugar 

^ cup brown sugar 23^ cups flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cloves 
2}/^ heaping teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon grated chocolate, or cocoa 

2 teaspoons nutmeg ]/i teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup English walnuts 

}/2 cup home-made wine or grape juice 
Cream butter and sugar, add wine, spices and chocolate. Allow 
to stand one-half hour. Add one-half cup of the flour to the raisins. 

Miriam Starrett (Kappa). 

Date Rocks 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda in 
13^ cups sugar 3^ cup hot water 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
2]/2 cups flour 3^ teaspoon cloves 

2 pounds dates 

1 pound walnuts, before shelUng 
Drop from spoon. Have quick oven. 

Mary Basset Bray (Lambda). 



COOKIES 

Chocolate Cookies 

1 cup sugar 1)4, cups flour, sifted 

}/2 cup butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 egg 3 squares chocolate, melted 

}/2 cup milk 1 cup chopped nuts 

Mix in order given. Drop from teaspoon onto floured pans and 
bake in hot oven ten or fifteen minutes. Have a pan of water on 
bottom of oven to prevent cookies burning. Frost with chocolate 
frosting if so desired. 

Helen M. Smith (Lambda Nu). 

Cocoanut Cookies 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon milk 

2 eggs 1 cup cocoanut 
1 cup butter 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder mixed in 
1 cup flour 
Add a bit more flour if necessary. Roll very thin. 

Marion Gay lord (Lambda Nu). 

Date Bars 

1 cup sugar 1 pound dates 

3 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup walnuts 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Combine egg yolk with sugar, stir until creamy, add pinch salt. 
Mix flour and baking powder. Add dates, stoned and quartered. 
Beat egg whites stiff, add alternately with flour. Bake twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Remove from pan, Avhen almost cold 
cut into bars and roll in powdered sugar, or ice with orange frosting 
and decorate with nut meats and dates. 

Mabel D. Ricketts. 

162 



COOKIES 163 

Drop Cookies 

1 cup sugar, preferably brown 

}/2 cup butter, drippings, or substitute 

1 cup raisins, dates or prunes, cooked 

1 cup walnuts 

2 eggs, well beaten 
V/i cups flour 

Yi teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot water 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
\i teaspoon each, cloves, nutmeg 
Mix ingredients in order given, creaming fat first, and adding 
sugar, then eggs, dry ingredients. Prunes keep the cookies moist and 
are nice change from dates or raisins. 

Margaret Monroe Williamson (Lambda). 

Easiest Cookies in the World 



1 cup flour 


2 eggs 


1 cup walnut meats 


pinch salt 


1 cup sugar 




Drop from spoon. 




• 


Eleanor Simpkins (Pi). 


Filled 


Cookies 


3^ cup butter and lard 


2Y2 cups flour 


1 cup sugar 


2 teaspoons cream tartar 


1 egg 


1 teaspoon soda 


Y2 cup milk 


1 teaspoon vanilla 



Roll thin, cut round and put in pan. Put one heaping teaspoon 
filling on each and place another circle on top. Press edges together. 

Filling 

13^ cups chopped raisins or figs, or dates 

Yi cup sugar Y2 cup water 

Boil until thick. 

Bake in moderate oven. 

Marguerite T. Way (Lambda Nu). 



164 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 



Filled Cookies 



3 eggs 1 teaspoon soda, sifted in flour 

1 cup butter salt 

1 cup sour cream flour 

1 cup white sugar 2 cups brown sugar 

Filling for Cookies 

1 pound chopped dates, or raisins 
1 cup sugar 
1 cup water 
May need a teaspoon of flour. 

Boil until it forms a rather thick filling. Roll out cookies, put a 
teaspoon of filling on, then put another cookie on top. Do not have 
cookies rolled too thick. Ruth Kautsky (Alpha Zeta). 

Fruit Cookies 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
% cup butter 1 tablespoon hot water 

2 cups flour 1 cup walnuts 

2 eggs 1 cup dates or figs 

1 teaspoon cloves 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Drop by small teaspoonfuls into buttered tins. 

Ruth Thomburgh (Gamma). 

Fruited Cookies 

1 cup butter \ 

, , . } cream 

ly2 cups sugar J 

3 eggs, beaten light 

13^ tablespoons hot water with 1 teaspoon soda 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
}/2 teaspoon salt 
3^ cup nutmeats, chopped 
}/2 cup raisins, chopped 
}/2 cup currants, chopped 
Syz cups flour 
Roll thin and bake in quick oven. 

Marguerite Way (Lambda Nu). 



COOKIES 165 

Fruit and Nut Cookies 

1^ cups brown sugar 1 cup nuts 

1 cup butter 2]/^ cups flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3/^ cup cold coffee 1 nutmeg 

\}/2 cups raisins 3^ teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon soda in coffee 
Mix as for a cake and drop from a spoon into pans. Bake in a 
quick oven. Raisins, currants, walnuts, dates or figs may be added. 

Florence Klinkenberg (Xi). 

Ginger Cookies 

1 pint molasses 

Let come to a boil, then add, 

1 cup lard 1 teaspoon soda 

little salt 1 tablespoon ginger 

After it cools, thicken with flour. Roll* thin and bake. 

Julia B. Gould (Lambda Nu). 

Ginger Snaps 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons ginger 

3^ cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

^ cup softened butter (part lard may be used) 
flour enough to make a thin dough 
Heat molasses and pour over sugar. Then add other ingredients 
and bake quickly. 

Dorothy Mill (Phi). 

Ginger Snaps 

}/2 cup granulated sugar 1 level teaspoon soda 

]/2 cup molasses 3 teaspoons ginger 

]/^ cup melted lard 3 cups flour 
3 tablespoons hot water 
Put soda in with flour. Roll and cut with knife in oblongs and 
bake in hot oven. 

Minnie Stinchfield Brown (Lambda Nu). 



166 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Ice Box Cookies 
1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup lard 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 6}/2 cups flour 

1 level teaspoon soda in two tablespoons hot water 
}4: pound walnuts or almonds, broken up 
Cream the butter, lard and sugar. Add the other ingredients in 
their order. Thi& mixes into a stiff dough which you put into a 
bread tin and stand in the ice box over night. 

In the morning put the loaf on the bread board and slice in thin 
slices as you would any meat loaf. Bake on cookie sheet in quick 
oven. This makes a good many but they keep nicely. 

Julia Gould (Lambda Nu). 

Lace Curtain Cookies 
1 cup sugar salt 

1 tablespoon butter, creamed 23^ cups oatmeal 

2 eggs, beaten separately 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Drop onto tins and bake in hot oven. 

Unsigned (Kappa). 

Marshmallow Cookies 
Rub one-half cup butter to a cream. Add four tablespoons cocoa, 
yolks three eggs beaten, and one-half cup water. Then incorporate 
beaten whites of eggs and one and one-half cups flour, sifted with three 
tablespoons baking powder. Bake in small tins ; when done cover with 
boiled frosting and press into top of each a marshamallow or two. 

Ethel Richter Megeath (Lambda). 

Molasses Cookies 
2 cups molasses 1 egg 

little ginger or cinnamon 10 tablespoons hot water 

1 teaspoon salt 3 teaspoons soda 

12 tablespoons shortening 5 or 6 cups flour 

Stir up and let stand an hour before baking. 

Theodora Carpenter (Lambda). 



COOKIES 167 

Nut Cookies 

2 tablespoons butter }/i teaspoon salt 

^ cup sugar Yi cup flour 

1 egg 2 tablespoons milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder lemon or vanilla 

Yi cup finely chopped nuts 
Cream the butter, add sugar and egg well beaten. Mix and sift 
baking powder, salt and flour, add to first mixture, then add milk, 
nuts and flavoring. Drop the mixture from a teaspoon on an unbut- 
tered sheet an inch apart. Bake from twelve to fifteen minutes in a 
slow oven. This recipe will make twenty-four cookies. 

Margaret W. Price (Chi Sigma). 

Oatmeal Cookies 

2Y2 cups oatmeal, ground 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup brown sugar salt 

Y cup hot water cinnamon 

23^2 cups flour yi cup shortening 

Add all ingredients except flour and water. Pour hot water in 
mixing dish, then add flour. Roll out thin, cut in strips. If you wish, 
make a paste of dates and a little water. Spread on strips and bake. 
Cover with another strip before baking. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Pineapple Cookies 

^ cup butter, scant 23^ cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

Y cup pineapple 2 tablespoons cream 
Y2 cup pineapple juice 

2 teaspoons baking powder, heaping 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, slightly beaten, then pine- 
apple and juice. Sift into this flour and baking powder. Add 
cream and vanilla. Drop from spoon onto buttered pan and bake 
in moderate oven. If not stiff enough to make good drop cakes, add 
more flour. 

Irma Child Browne (Beta). 



108 DELTA OAMMA COOK HOOK 

Rnisiii Cookies, Children's Delight 

1 cup Bour crt'Miu 

1 cup migar 1 <(visp()()ii soda 

I (»g^ 1 pinch smII. 

I'lnoiigh (lour to roll well, nboul four cups. Koll thin, spread one 
pound choppcMl raisiiis, douhh* over, roll slif!;hlly. Cut in scpiaros aiul 
bake in hot oven. 

A^;n(>s Clay pole Moody (Chi). 

Shredded Wheat Cookies 

1 cup \vhit(> su^;ar 2 onj^s 

I cup brown su,i!::tr 1 (caspoou sod.a in 

• '2 cup lard } 2 <'iip i^<'*i^" '>>il'^ 

J-'i cup butter 3 cups of (lour 

(» shr(>dd(>d wheat cak(\s, rolhul 
Droj) the batter into pans aecordini>; to size of cooky desired. 

lOlaino Shields (Xi). 

Sour Cream Cookies 

crt>ani ' -j cup butter and 1 cup sugar 
1 beaten egg 2^^ cujis flour 

y^2 t'*'P thick sinu' i'ri\'uu S^-'j teaspoiuis baking pow- 

}-4 tt'Mspmtn soila der 

IU>at wt>ll into first niixtunv Atid ouc ti>asp«Hm vanilla. Prop 
from spi>on ou buttered pans. 

Mrs. Mac Sun\uer (Kta l^psilon). 

Sugar Cookies 

1 cup sugar '2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cuj) butter 3 eggs 

4 cuivs tlour I teaspiHui cinnamon 

Hake in thin strips and cut int(> diamonds while hot. 

l.(H>nora Mann (Lambda Nu). 



KISSES. MACAROONS. AND MARGUERITES 

Kisses 

whiles og^:8 

M (iiblrspoons gmnuluUHl sugar 
1 cup pecan nuts, not choppod 
rut siij^ar into wliitrs of rjigs and boat unti stiff rnounh ti) drop 
from a spt)i>n. All suj^ar must bo dissolvod. Prop onto ungivasod 
papor. Hako in a slow ovrn for forty minutoa. 

Margarot C. lli>nry (Sigma). 

Corn Flake Kisses 

1 scant cup sugar -'.j cup cocoanut 
;{ ogg whites, beaten stilT tiny pinch salt 

2 cups corn llakca 

Heal eggs stilT, tiien beat in sugar grailually and other ingr(>dienls. 
Drop on buttered tin by spoonfuls. Bako in slow oven until lirni. 

Lois Tcnnant Pennock (Lambda). 

Cocoanut Macaroons 
whites 2 eggs, well beaten 1 cup powdered sugar 

pinch salt 2 tablespoons corn starch 

2 cups cocoanut 
Drop on buttered pans and bake. 

Mrs. I'anny Huntley Truair (Uho 8igma). 

Nut Macaroons 
white of 1 egg 1 cup nut moats 

1 cup light brown sugar \.i teaspoon salt 

Take a very scant cup of sugar and if it is loo dark brown, use a 
little white to make the nu>asure. Heat white of egg until light, and 
while beating conslanlly, add sugar gradually. Fold in nut meats, 
finely chopped, ami sprinkU>d with salt. Drop from tip of spoon one 
inch apart on buttered sheet, and bake in ;i moderate oven until 
delic!ilt<ly browned. Tlus nripe niakes twi>lve macaroons. 

Alice CMuistopher Browne (Signuv). 

169 



170 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Peanut Macaroons 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup peanut meats 

1 tablespoon flour whites of 2 eggs 

Mix flour and sugar, add peanuts and eggs, bake on buttered tins. 

Mabel Kellogg (Chi). 

Peanut Macaroons 

whites of 3 eggs, well beaten 
1 cup sugar, beaten in 1 glass of peanut butter 
Mix and drop on oiled paper. Bake in moderate oven for twenty 
or twenty-five minutes. Helen Stevens West (Sigma). 

Marguerites 

white of one egg, beaten stiff 
4 tablespoons granulated sugar 
Yi cup EngMsh walnuts, finely chopped 
Stir in one-half teaspoon mapleine. Spread on salted wafers and 
bake until brown. This is sufficient for twenty chips. 

Jeannette R. Fox (Nu). 

Marguerites 

Boil one cup sugar and one-half cup water until it threads. Re- 
move to back of stove and drop in five marshmallows, cut in pieces. 
Let stand to dissolve, then gradually pour onto whites of two eggs, 
beaten until foamy. Add two tablespoons shredded cocoanut, one- 
fourth teaspoon vanilla. When partly cool, add one cup English 
walnut meats. Spread on saltines and brown slightly in a hot oven. 
This quantity will spread between three and four dozen crackers. 

Grace Johnston (Omieron). 

Mocha Cakes 

Cut a square or oblong of angel cake into small cubes about 
one and three-quarters inches each way. Mix powdered sugar and but- 
ter to form a filhng that will be soft enough to spread easily. Spread 
on all sides of each little cube of angel food and roll in ahnonds that 
have been browned and ground or chopped fine. These are very 
nice for afternoon tea. Ruth Scott Dancer (Xi). 



COFFEE CAKE AND GINGER BREADS 

Bishop's Bread 
3 eggs 1 cup almonds not blanched 

1 cup sugar 1}/^ cups flour 

1 cup raisins 13^ teaspoons baking powder 

Mix eggs and sugar thoroughly, add other ingredients, put in 
shallow pan and bake in slow oven. Cut in strips while warm and 
leave in pan to cool. Margaret Jayne (Tau). 

Blitz KUchen 

}/2 cup butter 2 eggs 

% cup sugar rind 1 lemon, grated 

}/2 cup milk 

\}/2 cups flour, measured after sifting 
3/2 teaspoon baking powder 

blanched almonds, cut lengthwise and mixed with sugar and 
cinnamon 
Cream butter, add sugar and beat well, stir in eggs, lemon rind, 
milk, and flour with baking powder, alternately. Spread in two 
biscuit tins, cover with almonds. Bake twenty minutes. 

Evelyn N. Walbridge (Omega Sigma). 

Almond Short Bread 
1 pound flour pinch salt 

}/2 pound butter 5 ounces sugar 

1 ounce blanched and chopped almonds 
Sift the flour and salt onto a baking board. Knead the butter 
and sugar together, then gradually draw in the flour, kneading well, 
add the almonds and knead again, keeping the lump firm in both 
hands. When all is worked up into a stiff paste cut it into three 
pieces and make each piece round, and about half an inch thick, 
pinch the edges, dust over with finely chopped almonds, and bake in a 
moderate oven until they are a nice brown color. The time depends on 
the thickness of the cakes — from one-fourth to one-half hour. 

Jean Mearns (Alpha Ganuna). 

171 



172 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Scotch Short Bread 
)/2 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour and salt together. Bake in 
shallow tin. Cut while hot. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda Nu). 

Coffee Cake 

3^ cup sugar 2 cups flour, sifted 

1 well beaten egg }/2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup buttermilk or sour milk ^ teaspoon nutmeg 
y^ cup melted butter 34 teaspoon salt 

134 teaspoons baking powder 
Bake in two pie tins twenty to thirty minutes and spread over 
top; one-fourth cup sugar, one-fourth cup chopped nuts, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, bits of butter. 

Julia B. Gould (Lambda Nu). 

Coffee Cake 
1 cup very strong coffee 3 eggs 

1 cup butter 13^ pints flour 

2 cups sugar 3^ cup chopped citron 
\}/2 teaspoons baking powder 3^ cup milk 

1 cup stoned raisins, cut in two 
1 teaspoon allspice and 1 of nutmeg 
Bake in a hot oven fifty minutes. 

Louise Schriefer (Omicron). 

Coffee Cake 

34 cup butter or oleo 2 eggs 

]/2 cup sugar 13/^ cups flour 

pinch salt 

milk enough to make a soft dough, about 34 cup 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs and milk, then dry 
ingredients, sifted together. Sprinkle top with sugar, cinnamon 
and chopped walnuts. Bake in shallow pan in hot oven, taking care 
to avoid burning. Lucia E. Lyons (Xi). 



COFFEE CAKE AND GINGER BREADS 173 

Chocolate Ginger Bread 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons melted butter 

]/2 cup sour cream or milk J^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 

1 tablespoon water 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 cups flom* 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
4 tablespoons (2 squares) grated chocolate 

Mix in order given. Bake in a loaf in a moderate oven. 

Theodora Stark Carpenter (Lambda). 

Cold Tea Ginger Bread 

}/2 cup cold tea 3^ cup molasses 

]/2 cup sugar 1^ cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda 1 egg 

14, cup butter 
Cream butter and sugar. Add other ingredients and add egg last. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Frozen Gingerbread 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon soda 

1 cup melted lard 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons ginger 
4 cups flour 1 cup boiling water 

Mix molasses, sugar, and lard, then spices, salt to suit taste, 
yolks of eggs, stir in all flour you can, add boiling water with soda 
dissolved in it, beaten whites of eggs last. This batter can be set in a 
cool place and kept for two weeks, and any quantity baked as desired. 

Susanna H. Parry (Alpha Beta). 

Molasses Ginger Bread 
2]/2 cups flour ]/2 teaspoon nutmeg 

']/2 cup sugar 3^ tablespoon ginger 

}/2 cup butter }/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

]/2 cup molasses 13^ teaspoons soda 

^2 cup sour milk 3^ teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 
Melt together in an earthenware dish butter, sugar, molasses and 



174 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

spices, then remove from fire. Add eggs well beaten, milk, soda, 
dissolved in a little hot water, and lastly flour. Bake in moderate 
oven from twenty to thirty minutes. This makes a deUcious cold 
weather dessert, served with sweetened and flavored whipped cream, 

Mabel W. Wright (Phi Omega). 

Nothings 
1 egg pinch salt 

1 tablespoon cream 2 tablespoons sugar 
Flour enough to make thick enough to roll. 

Roll very thin, cut in strips or in queer shapes. Fry in deep 
fat until brown. Dust with powdered sugar. 

Lois Marshall (Theta). 

Scotch Scones for Tea 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

buttermilk enough to make a stiff batter 
Roll out, cut with cookie cutter. Fry on a griddle or in a pan, on 
both sides and edges. Split with fork and butter. 

Blanche Garten (Kappa). 



DOUGHNUTS 

Fattimands Bockles 
2 eggs, well beaten 2 tablespoons cream 

2 tablespoons sugar flavor with nutmeg 
flour enough to make it stiff 

Roll very, very thin. Fry in deep lard. 

Margaret Denfeld Hudson (Lambda). 

Comfits 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

3 cups flour salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Drop dough into hot lard and fry as doughnuts. When pow- 
dered with sugar they are pretty enough to serve with tea or coffee 
in the afternoon. Ethel Rockwood Phillips (Lambda). 

Doughnuts 

2 eggs, well beaten 3^ nutmeg, grated 

1 cup sugar, added 3 teaspoons full melted 
httle salt butter 

Cream the above thoroughly. Add one cup milk. Flour enough 
to roll. Two teaspoons baking powder. Keep as soft as possible. 
Beat hard after half the flour is in. Roll all out before frying as stand- 
ing improves them. Marion Prest (Lambda). 

Potato Doughnuts 

2 well beaten eggs 13^ cups sweet milk 

1 cup mashed potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons melted lard flour enough to handle 
6 level teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon nutmeg or cinnamon 
The secret of successful doughnut making lies in adding just 
enough flour to handle, frying in Crisco or lard, to which a tablespoon 
of vinegar is added before the blue haze arises and not chilling the 
grease by placing all the fresh dough in the kettle at the same time. 

Nelhe Mary Ober (Theta). 

175 



176 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Spiced Fried Cakes 
\]/2 cups sour milk 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons shortening 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 heaping teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

pinch of ginger 
Flour enough to make soft dough. Add spices, soda, baking pow- 
der to some of the flour. Add all ingredients, then stir just enough 
to mix them. Make soft dough, but stiff enough to be handled on 
board. Fry in hot lard. 



CAKE FROSTINGS 

AUegretti Frosting 
Make a regular boiled frosting and spread on cake. When this 
has_hardened, put a coating of melted Baker's chocolate over all. 

Margaret Van Bergen (Lambda). 

Boiled Icing 
1 cup sugar 

cold water enough to dissolve the sugar 
Boil until it threads. Pour over the beaten white of one egg and 
beat until stiff enough to spread on cake. 

Harriet Van Bergen Deering (Lambda). 

Burnt Sugar Frosting 
Burn sugar according to rule under "Burnt Leather Cake." 
Boil one and one-half cups sugar and about one-half cup water 
(enough water to dissolve sugar) . Add enough burnt syrup to darken 
this white syrup ( two or three tablespoons). Boil hard a few min- 
utes, then add four tablespoons of syrup to well beaten white of egg. 
Cook rest of syrup until it hairs at third or fourth drop, then add 
gradually to white of egg, beating continually. When stiff enough, 
spread on cake. Grace Nelson (Lambda). 

Caramel Icing 
2]/2 cups light brown sugar 
3/^ cup granulated sugar 
Stir over the fire until boiling. Add : 
1 cup thick sweet cream 
1 large tablespoon butter 
Cook until it hardens when tested in water. Remove from fire 
and beat hard until thick and creamy. If too hard, add a little 
boiling water; if too soft, return to the fire a few minutes. Spread 
on quickly and smooth with a silver knife dipped in hot water. 
Do not frost cake until both cake and frosting are cool. 

Martha Dever Moulton (Lambda). 

177 



178 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Frosting 

2 cups powdered sugar 13^ tablespoons butter 
Cream together and add two tablespoons cold water, white of 

one egg beaten stiff, two squares melted chocolate, one-half teaspoon 
vanilla. Helen Plant Southall (Lambda Nu). 

Chocolate Filling 

Yi cup grated chocolate 2 cups sugar 

lump of butter the size of an egg ^ cup milk 
Mix and cook until it makes a soft ball in cold water. Remove 
from fire and beat until cool. If it should get too hard add a table- 
spoon or two of boiling water. Eva Webb Dodd (Founder) . 

Icing for Chocolate Cake No 2 

3 cups sugar Y2 cake chocolate 

1 cup milk 

Let milk and sugar come to a boil and then add chocolate. Boil 
until it forms soft ball in cold water. Let it stand until almost 
cool, then stir. Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Filling for Any Chocolate Cake 

2 cups milk 2 squares chocolate 

1 cup sugar vanilla 

4 dessert spoons cornstarch 

Boil this as you do chocolate pudding. Wlien it thickens set 
aside until partly cooled, then stir and put on cake. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Chocolate Icing 

2 cups sugar 2 egg whites 

Yi cup boiling water • bit of butter in chocolate 

23^ squares chocolate 
Boil sugar and water until it threads, then beat in stiff beaten 
whites. Wlien about ready to put on cake add melted chocolate. 
Then spread on cake. Anna Glindemann (Nu). 



CAKE FROSTINGS 179 

Chocolate Icing 
beaten whites of 2 eggs 1 cup powdered sugar 

2 squares melted chocolate 
then fold in 3^ pint cream, whipped 
use H of 3^ pint bottle. Doris Churchill (Rho). 

Chocolate Icing 

7 tablespoons grated chocolate 1 egg, beaten whole 
^ cup sugar 2 tablespoons sweet cream 

Beat well together and set on stove; bring to a boil, stirring con- 
stantly. When just boiling take from fire and add one-half teaspoon 
vanilla and beat until cool. 

Margaret Denfeld Hudson (Lambda). 

Frosting for Cake 

}/i cup cream, sweet or sour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 squares chocolate, melted over hot water 
Stir powdered sugar into the cream, adding it slowly, until ahnost 
stiff enough to spread, then add the melted chocolate. Add sugar 
until stiff. Edith Foulke (Lambda Nu). 

Frosting 
1 cup sugar pinch of salt 

Yi cup boiling water 1 tablespoon sugar 

whites of 2 eggs vanilla 

pinch of cream of tartar 
Cook the sugar and water together very slowly, without stirring. 
Beat whites of eggs and add one tablespoon of uncooked sugar and 
pinch of salt. Add one tablespoon of boiling sugar to beaten eggs 
and beat well. Add more gradually. Be sure the last three table- 
spoons of sugar syrup hairs well before adding to the beaten whites. 
Put the frosting in a double boiler and keep lifting carefully with 
a spoon. Cook until it keeps its shape when lifted with a spoon (about 
three or four minutes). 

Remove from the fire, add cream of tartar and vanilla. 
This makes a rich thick frosting for cake. 

Alcetta Gilbert Clark (Lambda Nu). 



180 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Lemon Filling 

2 cups confectionery sugar 

3 tablespoons cream 

Mix together and add yolks of three or four eggs. Flavor with 
lemon. 

Cora Harmon (Pi). 

Lemon Filling 

grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

1 egg 1 cup sugar 

Beat well and cook in double boiler untU done. Beat until thick 
enough to spread. 

Katharine F. Herrmann (Alpha Beta). 

Mocha Frosting 

2 cups .powdered sugar 8 teaspoons cocoa 

3^ cup oleomargarine 3 tablespoons hot coffee 

Stir and put on cake. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Mocha Icing 

a piece of butter the size of an egg 

1 tablespoon cocoa 

Mix the cocoa and butter together. Then add: 

2 tablespoons cold coffee 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups confectioner's sugar 

Gladys Gary (Eta). 

Marshmallow Filling 

3 cups sugar 1 cup water 
3 tablespoons corn syrup 

Mix and cook until it makes a soft ball in cold water. Remove 
from fire and beat slowly into stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. 
Add one cup of marshmallows, chopped fine, one cup chopped 
pecans and one teaspoon vanilla. Beat until cool and creamy. 

Eva Webb Dodd (Founder). 



CAKE FROSTINGS 181 

Marshmallow Icing 
2 cups sugar 1 cup water 

Cook until it threads. 

Pour over the well beaten whites of two eggs. 
Add one-half pound marshmallows and beat well. 
Spread between and over layers. 

Louise Riggs (Theta). 

Pecan Frosting 

1 cup cream, sour or sweet 
1 cup pecans, cut up 1 cup sugar 

Boil together until thick. Put whole pecans over top layer, aside 
from those chopped up and boiled with the mixture. 

Gladys Huffman (Pi). 

Snow Balls 
Cut pieces of pound cake about two inches square. Dip into 
stiffly beaten white of egg and dip in cocoanut. 

Alta Stevenson (Eta). 

Frosting 

whites of 2 eggs 
Beat a httle, add pinch of salt and pinch of cream of tartar. 

Beat stiff. 

add 1 cup sugar 

3 tablespoons cold water 
Put in a double boiler and beat for eight minutes as it cooks, or 
until the mixture can be raised to a point from a spoon. This never 
fails. Kathleen Frazee Marcy (Lambda Nu). 

Caramel Frosting 
13^ cups light brown sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

]/2 cup cream or rich milk 
Boil slowly until it forms a soft ball in water. Take from the fire 
and add vanilla to taste. 
Beat until ready to spread. 

LiUian'Smith Burwell (Lambda Nu). 



DESSERTS 
Almond Pudding 

Line dessert cups with strips of sponge cake. Fill with following 
custard : 

2 eggs 1 pint milk 

Y2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

When custard is partly cool, flavor and add two-thirds cup 
chopped blanched almonds. Serve very cold. 

Helen Berkman Judd (Lambda). 

African Cream 

Into yolks of two eggs well beaten stir four tablespoons sugar, 
two tablespoons flour and flavor with vanilla. Pour this into one 
pint of boiling milk and stir until quite thick. Remove top and 
inside of a sponge cake and fill vacancy with the cream. Replace 
top and cover with chocolate icing. 

Leulah J. Hawley (Lambda Nu). 

Ambrosia 

Put layer of oranges sliced thm in dish, cover with powdered 
sugar and grated cocoanut, alternating layers until dish is full, 
leaving a cocoanut layer for top. Serve cold. 

Gayle Marshall (Theta). 

Angel's Dessert 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup nuts 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 cup dates 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 teaspoons flour 

Stir sugar, flour and baking powder together and add the other 
ingredients. Bake in a slow oven twenty minutes. Serve with 
cream. 

Frances Skinner Blitz (Lambda). 

182 



DESSERTS 183 

Delmonico Apple 

Stew and sweeten to taste one quart peaches, one quart apples. 
Chop together one and one-half pounds blanched almonds, twenty- 
cents worth macaroons. 

Put fruit in well buttered pan, add small lumps butter, then add 
nuts and macaroons, alternating layers until dish is fuU. Bake half 
hour, or until brown. Harriet Merrill Chf ton (Lambda) . 

Apricot Float 
Squeeze stewed apricots through sieve. To one cup apricots add 
whites of two or three eggs beaten light with a little sugar. Put in 
slightly buttered pan and brown lightly. Mabel M. Reese (Psi), 

Apples in Butter Sauce 

4 large sweet apples water 

2 tablespoons butter }/i teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons flour 3^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Melt butter and blend with flour, add water slowly until the 
consistency of white sauce. When smooth put in the apples, pared 
and cut into sixteenths. Then add enough water to cover apples. 
Cook until apples are tender and flavor with vanilla and cinnamon. 
If possible use "Weaver Sweet Apples." 

Ella Ward Carson (Epsilon). 

Apples a la Tomato 
Peel and core apples that do not break when cooking and put in 
water to cover them. Drop in enough red cinnamon candies to 
color the water and cook until done. Serve with whipped cream and 
nuts in the center. Irene Blades Hickman (Theta) . 

Apple Dumplings 

1 pint flour pinch of salt 

1 good teaspoon baking powder 2 large tablespoons butter 
Mix all together with milk until soft. Roll a little and fill with 
quartered apples sweetened. Put in a deep pan and after they have 
started to bake pour following sauce around them and continue 
baking. Cook together for five minutes: one pint boiling water, three 
tablespoons sugar, and two tablespoons butter. 

Mary M. Breene (Tau Zeta). 



184 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Stufifed Apples 
Peel and core sour apples, place in baking dish. Fill each center 
with sugar and one teaspoon of lemon juice. Measure one table- 
spoon of water for each apple and pour it around them. Bake until 
apples are soft, from twenty to forty minutes, basting every ten 
minutes. Place apples in dish, stuff with chopped nuts and dates, 
then pour juice over. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Elsie Foulke Haney (Lambda) . 

Apricot Souffle 

1 jelly glass of apricot marmalade 
4 egg whites, Y2 stiffly beaten 

Y2 cup granulated sugar 
Beat eggs, add sugar gradually, then beat in marmalade. Bake 
in moderate oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Let it stay 
in open oven from which the heat has been turned off until ready 
to serve. Serve with whipped cream. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda Nu). 

Apple Souffle 
Make as above, using one cup grated raw apple, or very thick 
apple sauce instead of apricot. Serve with whipped cream. 

Ina TenEyck Firkins (Lambda). 

Transparent Apples 

2 cups sugar (granulated) 1 cup water 
Boil five minutes, to a syrup. 

Add 1 teaspoon mapleine. 

Pare and core 6 apples. Place in syrup for about fifteen minutes. 
Turn over and cook until transparent. Take out, put on plate and 
cool. Serve with whipped cream. Very good served with pork. 

Frances M. Samuel (Rho). 

Banana Whip 

1 banana 3^ cup double cream 

Y^ cup sugar 2 pistachio nuts 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 
Peel bananas, scrape off the coarse threads and press pulp through 
a sieve, add sugar, and lemon juice and cook over fire, stirring con- 



DESSERTS 185 

stantly until it boils. Remove from the fire' and let chill. Beat 
cream until firm to the bottom of bowl. Fold the chilled banana 
together and turn into two glasses. Chop nuts fine and sprinkle on 
top. Serves two. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Bird's Nest Pudding 

Beat one egg well and add it to two tablespoons sugar, rubbed 
into one tablespoon butter. Then add one small cup of milk and 
one cup of flour sifted with one rounded teaspoon of baking powder. 

Fill a deep dish with small pieces of apple or other fruit, cover 
with a small cup of sugar and juice of half a lemon. Pour the batter 
over this and bake in a hot oven forty minutes. Serve hot with cream. 

Edna Judson Wilde (Lambda Nu). 

Black Pudding 

}/2 cup molasses 3^ teaspoon soda 

}4: cup butter 3^ teaspoon cloves 

]4: cup sugar 3^ teaspoon cinnamon 

]4: cup milk 13/2 cups flour 

2 eggs 
Steam one hour. Serve hot with egg sauce. 

Egg Sauce 

Beat two eggs well, adding one cup sugar gradually and flavor 
with vanilla. 

H. Safford (Nu). 

Blueberry Pudding 
2 eggs 

2 tablespoons baking powder 
2 cups flour 2 cups of berries 

1 cup sweet milk 3^ teaspoon salt 

Steam for two hours. 

Elizabeth McDowell (Omicron). 



186 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Bread Pudding 
1 pint of fine bread crumbs 

1 quart sweet milk yolks of 4 eggs 

]/2 cup brown sugar butter size of an egg 

grated rind of 1 lemon 
Bake until thick. Beat up the whites of the eggs, juice of the 
lemon, and a teacup of sugar. Spread over top and brown in the 
oven. 

Harriet Jefferson Pinkham (Lambda). 

Brown Betty 

2 cups apples, sliced thin 

1 cup bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons butter, cut into bits 

Butter a baking dish and put layer of apples sprinkled with 
sugar and a little cinnamon, then layer of crumbs, alternating layers. 
Dot layers of crumbs with bits of butter. Add a few tablespoons of 
water. Bake closely covered thirty to forty minutes, then uncover 
and brown. Serve hot or cold with sweetened cream and nutmeg. 

Madge Smith (Chi). 

Boiled Caramel Custard 

1 quart milk jt, 

4 eggs 

4 level tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons sugar besides the sugar used in making the 

caramel syrup 
4 tablespoons caramel syrup, made by browning white sugar 

to a dark syrup and adding boiling water. 
pinch of salt 
vanilla to taste 
Beat up yolks of eggs and add sugar and flour mixed, salt, cara- 
mel and a little cold milk so it will pour easily. Add this mixture to a 
quart of hot milk, and cook in a double boiler until the custard 
thickens. 

The whites of the eggs may be used to make meringue. Beat and 
sweeten and put on top of the custard when ready to serve. 

Margaret Frisbie Wood (Lambda Nu). 



DESSERTS ■ 187 

Brown Pudding 

1 egg 13^ cups flour 

2 tablespoons sugar 3^ cup molasses 

1 teaspoon soda stirred well into molasses 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

Beat well, then add one-half cup boiling water. This makes a 
thin pudding, but do not add any more flour. Steam one hour. 

Sauce 

Yolks of two eggs beaten with one-half cup sugar, the longer 
beaten the better. Add one-half pint whipped cream, but do not add 
until ready to serve. Flavor. 

Florence Bemis Reed (Omega). 

Carrot Pudding 
1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup suet spices and vanilla 

1 cup grated raw potatoes 1 cup raisins 

1 cup grated raw carrots 1 cup currants 

13^ cups flour 
Boil in double boiler for three hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 

Besse WUder (Pi). 

Cherry Pudding 

1 cup flour ) 

13^ teaspoon baking powder \ sift together 

pinch salt J 

Beat yolk of one egg and add one-third cup sugar, three table- 
spoons melted butter, one-quarter cup milk. 
Mix with the sifted mixture. 

Add one cup seeded cherries and white of egg beaten. 
Steam in five cups for twenty-five minutes. 
For chocolate pudding add two squares melted chocolate instead 
of the cherries. Serve with hard sauce. 

Hard Sauce 

}4 cup butter 2 tablespoons cream 

1 cup powdered sugar vanilla 

Helen Plant Southall (Lambda). 



188 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Cherry Torte 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup of flour 1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg 6 teaspoons sugar 

Mix and put into pan. Pour in cherries and place in oven. 
Mix yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup milk and 
one tablespoon cornstarch. 

Pour over fruit and bake one hour. Beat whites of eggs with 
sugar and spread over pudding and brown. 

Florence Mayer (Tau Zeta). 

Chocolate Cream 

2 cups scalded milk }/i teaspoon salt 
1 cup sugar ^ cup cold milk 
5 tablespoons cornstarch 

V/i squares Baker's chocolate 

3 tablespoons hot water 

whites 3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt, dilute with cold milk, add to 
scalded milk and cook over hot water ten minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until thickened. Melt chocolate, add hot water. Stir until 
smooth, and add to cooked mixture. Cool, add whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff, also vanilla. Mould, chill and serve with cream. Makes eight 
small puddings. 

Nelle Stinchfield Braasch (Lambda). 

Chocolate Pudding 

1 cup fresh bread crumbs 

2 cups hot milk 

2 squares chocolate 1 egg 

3/3 cup sugar 3^ teaspoon salt 

Soak the bread crumbs in one-half the hot milk. Melt the 
chocolate over hot water, add sugar and the rest of the milk. Add 
the bread crumbs and remaining ingredients. Bake in a casserole, 
or in cups about one-half hour. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Theodora Stark Carpenter (Lambda). 



DESSERTS 189 

Chocolate Puffs 

Beat white of egg until very light, add confectioner's sugar and 
cocoa until a good paste is formed. Add pinch of salt and vanilla to 
taste. Mould into httle balls, roll in granulated sugar and place in 
oven for three minutes. Lois Ward (Omicron). 

Chocolate Souffle 

Melt one rounded tablespoon butter in saucepan. Stir in two 
rounded tablespoons flour and cook a minute. Add slowly one-half 
cup milk and cook this until smooth and a little thickened. Remove 
from fire. Add slowly yolks of three eggs beaten with four large 
tablespoons sugar. Mix thoroughly and add three ounces of choco- 
late, melted. Stir and set away to cool. Rub a little butter over top 
to prevent crust forming. When ready to bake fold in lightly whites 
of four eggs beaten stiff. Bake in earthenware pudding dish in 
water. Leulah J. Hawley (Lambda Nu). 

Chocolate Steam Pudding 

Yi cup granulated sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg 1 square chocolate melted 
Y2 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Steam one and one-half hours. 1 cup flour 

Sauce 

Beat one egg, add one cup powdered sugar, a little melted butter 
and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Mrs. R. K. Crawford (Eta Upsilon). 

Cottage Pudding 

3^ cup butter 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately 

Y2 cup milk 2 cups flour 

V/i teaspoons baking powder 
Serve with following sauce: mix one cup of sugar with butter 
size of an egg, melted; add one cup hot water; when it boils thicken 
with cornstarch, dissolved in a little water; flavor with lemon and 
vanilla. Edith Fryer Siebold (Lambda). 



190 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Baked Custard for Two 

1 egg, beaten 1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons sugar vanilla 
Bake twenty minutes in a pan set in water. 

Helen Plant Southall (Lambda Nu). 

Baked Caramel Custard 

4 cups scalded milk 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 
^ teaspoon salt Yi cup sugar 

Put sugar in omelette pan, stir constantly until melted to syrup 
of light brown color, add gradually to hot milk. When sugar is 
melted, add to eggs, slightly beaten. Add salt and vanilla. Strain 
into buttered mould or baking dish. Bake in pan of hot water about 
twenty minutes. Test with silver knife. 

Kate Sexton (Beta). 

Dark Pudding 

Y2 cup molasses 

34 cup butter 2 cups flour 

Yi cup sour milk Yi teaspoon soda 

Yi teaspoon cinnamon, cloves, allspice 
34 cup nut meats and 1 cup raisins, floured 
Steam one hour. Serves six. Serve with hard sauce. 

Grace C. Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Dark Secret 

1 cup white sugar 1 cup dates in halves 

1 cup walnuts in quarters 

3 eggs 3 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 

Bake in kiichen tins and break into pieces after baked. Put a 
layer on a plate, then a layer of oranges cut in small pieces, another 
layer of cake and a layer of bananas. Sprinkle fruit with sugar and 
cover with whipped cream. 

Esther Kelly (Omega). 



DESSEBTS 191 

Date Pudding 

3 eggs, beaten light, separately 

1 cup sugar 

3^ cup walnuts, cut coarse 

Yi cup dates, cut up 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

1 heaping tablespoon flour 
Put dry ingredients together, then add eggs, first yolks, then 
whites, and whip. Bake in very slow oven thirty minutes. Serve 
with plain or whipped cream. 

Eleanor Hamilton Gregg (Lambda). 

Date Pudding 
1 cup pecan meats salt 

1 cup dates 1 pinch cinnamon 

1 cup sugar 3^ cup bread crumbs 

2 unbeaten eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Pour in buttered dish and steam one hour. 

R. Wollman (Iota Sigma). 

Date Souffle 

Y2 pound dates, chopped and cooked in Yi cup boiling water 
mash until smooth 

5 egg whites, beaten stiff Y cup sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice, salt 
Pour into buttered baking dish and bake twenty-five minutes. 
Serve cold with a boiled custard or whipped cream. 

Mildred Lawrence (Alpha Delta). 

Delight 

Whip a pint of good thick cream slightly diluted with milk and 
flavor with vanilla. Cut in halves, and remove the seeds from half a 
pound of white grapes; break up into small pieces half a pound of 
English walnuts; and cut into cubes half a pound, or less, of very soft 
and fresh marshmallows. Stir all into the whipped cream until the 
mixture is of the consistency of paste. 

Cora Morrison (Tau Zeta) . 



192 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Eagle Sundae 

1 can Borden's Eagle Brand condensed milk 
marshmallow sauce 
chopped nuts and candied cherries 
Do not open the can of milk but place it in a kettle of water and 
boil it sealed for three hours. This reduces the milk to caramel. 
Open the can and chill the contents. Serve in compote glasses with 
marshmallow sauce and garnish of nuts and cherries. This serves 
six. 

Harriet Moore Pier (Lambda). 



A Favorite Pudding 

1 heaping pint of perfectly dry and very fine bread crumbs 
1 egg 5 scant tablespoons melted 

Yi cup sugar butter 

1 cup hot water 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup molasses 1 cup flour 

1 heaping cup raisins 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Steam two or two and one-half hours in buttered dish, serve 
with whipped cream or foam sauce. Water should boil rapidly while 
steaming. Dates may be substituted for raisins and chopped nuts 
may be added. 

Fig Pudding 

1 cup suet 2 eggs 

1 cup brown sugar Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups flour 1 pound figs 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
Chop suet and figs. Beat the sugar and yolks of eggs together 
until light, then add milk and flour and beat until smooth. Add the 
spices, salt and whites of eggs, well beaten, then the baking powder, 
mixed with the flour. Next add the figs, well floured. Turn into a 
buttered mould and steam for three hours. Serve warm with a 
hard sauce. 

Julia Bearnes Gould (Lambda). 



DESSERTS 193 

Fig and Date Pudding 

Chop fine one-half pound figs and one-half pound dates, two- 
third cup boiled rice, small cup sugar and pinch of salt. 

After soaking one-half box gelatine in one-half cup water for one 
hour add to fruit. 

Then add one pint whipped cream and pour into mould. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. This amount will serve ten people. 

Anne Puffer Taylor (Lambda Nu). 

Fig Souffle 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons flour 
1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped figs 
1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup chopped walnuts 
Bake slowly thirty minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Jean Frederickson (Omega). 

Fruit Cocktail 

1 can sliced pineapple 1 cup sugar 

3 oranges juice 1 lemon 
3^ cup halved green grapes or fresh sweet cherries 

Drain juice from the pineapple and boil with sugar until sugar is 
dissolved. While this is cooking, cut pineapple fine, peel and cut 
oranges fine, and skin grapes. Pour juice of pineapple and lemon 
over this. Serve very cold in sherbet glasses, adding maraschino 
cherries if desired. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Graham Pudding 

1 cup sweet milk 1 cup chopped raisins 

1 cup molasses ^ cup corn meal 
\]/2 cups graham flour 

2 teaspoons soda, dissolved in milk 
salt 

Steam two hours. Serve with pudding sauce. 

A. Evelyn Abel (Rho Sigma). 



194 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

English Grape Pudding 

Boil one quart grapes in one quart of water, strain, add one cup 
sugar and stir in one cup cream of wheat. Cook in double boiler 
fifteen minutes, remove from fire and whip in well beaten whites of 
two eggs. Pour in moulds to cool and serve with following sauce: 
heat one pint milk; add yolks of two eggs, well beaten with one-half 
cup sugar and two tablespoons cornstarch; add salt and vanilla. 
Cook well and cool before serving. 

Ruby Bell (Rho Sigma). 

Honey Comb Pudding 

Y2 cup flour Yi cup sugar 

Yi cup milk Yi cup butter 

Y cup molasses 4 eggs 

1 rounding teaspoon cinnamon 

1 level teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water 
Mix flour and sugar thoroughly. Add molasses, then butter 
melted in the milk. Add the cinnamon, the eggs beaten together, 
and lastly the soda. Bake in buttered pan thirty minutes in a 
medium oven. Serve immediately with a lemon or hard sauce. 

Mary Louise Moss (Phi). 

Ice Box Cake 

2 quarter-pound cakes German sweet chocolate 

2 tablespoons powderedsugar 

4 tablespoons water 4 eggs (separated) 

3 dozen lady fingers Yi pint whipping cream 
Melt chocolate in double boiler, then add water, stirring con- 
stantly. Remove from stove and drop unbeaten yolks into it, one 
at a time, beating constantly; next add sugar and the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Have a loaf pan with removable bottom or use waxed 
paper for hning for packing the lady fingers. Put in one layer, very 
close together, pour the chocolate mixture over them, then pack 
in another layer and more chocolate. Add a little vanilla if wanted. 
Set into ice box to stiffen. Turn onto a platter and serve at table 
by slicing and adding whipped cream. 

Ahce McCelland Decker (Lambda). 



DESSERTS 195 

Baked Indian Pudding 

Two heaping tablespoons of corn meal, wet with a little cold 
water. Stir gradually into a quart of hot milk, put in a little salt 
and boil until thick and smooth. Add one-half cup chopped suet or 
one-fourth cup of butter. When cool add : 

3 eggs, beaten light }/i teaspoon ginger 

1 cup sugar Yi teaspoon nutmeg 

1 tablespoon molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Yi cup of seeded raisins 
Bake slowly one and a half hours. If hard sauce is to be served 
with it, leave out half of the quantity of sugar in the pudding. 

Juliette Gates (Sigma). 

Krummel Tart 

1 cup dried bread crumbs, rolled fine 
1 cup sugar yolks 6 eggs 

1 cup chopped dates 
1 cup English walnuts, chopped fine 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
Mix together, then add the stiffly beaten whites of the six eggs. 
Bake and when cool serve with whipped cream. 

Alice Christopher Browne (Sigma). 

Lemon Pudding 

Beat yolks four eggs very light, add four tablespoons sugar, two 
tablespoons of water and grated rind and juice of one lemon. Cook 
to custard in double boiler. Beat whites of four eggs very light. 
Add two tablespoons sugar. Beat thoroughly into the custard. 
Serve in sherbet glasses. Elsie Sovereign (Sigma). 

Lemon Sponge Pudding 

Yi cup sugar 

1 large lemon, or 2 small ones 
3 eggs 

Yz packet gelatine 
Mix sugar with grated rind and juice of lemon, and add beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Also mix gelatine (previously dissolved) with well 



196 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

beaten whites of the eggs. Stir together the two mixtures, beating 
until stiff. A httle sherry may be added for seasoning. No cooking, 
except to dissolve the gelatine. 

Mrs. James Warren McCrosky 

(Kappa and Chi Upsilon), 

Maple Mousse 

1 pint milk 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 
1 cup dark brown sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 3^ pint cream, whipped 

Put sugar in pan and cook until it turns dark brown. Heat milk, 
then add eggs and cornstarch. Boil twenty minutes. When thick- 
ened, add melted sugar, vanilla. Put in sherbet glasses and when 
ready to serve, add whipped cream and whole pecan nuts. 

Psi. 

Marshmallow Pudding 

One-half pound marshmallows, cut in four pieces. Soak marsh- 
mallows over night in one-half pint cream (part milk may be used). 
Put on ice before serving. Add oranges cut in small pieces, pine- 
apple, nuts, strawberries, Malaga grapes. Any kind of fruit may be 
used. Serve in ice cups. Whip one-half pint of cream and put on 
top with cherry or strawberry in center. 

A. Evelyn Abel (Rho Sigma). 

Nun Cake 

3 eggs, beaten separately 

3^ cup sugar, beaten into yolks of eggs 

1 cup broken or chopped English walnuts 

2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
vanilla 
Bake in two pans and fill with sweetened and flavored whipped 
cream. 

Leonora Mann (Lambda Nu). 



DESSERTS 197 

Omelet Souffle 

5 eggs 14: teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar grated rind ^ lemon 
3 tablespoons lemon juice 
Beat yolks of eggs until light colored and thick. Add sugar 
gradually, then grated rind and lemon juice. Pour this mixture 
over whites of eggs, beaten with salt until dry, and cut and fold 
the two together. Pour into buttered baking dish or into individual 
cases and bake in quick oven until well puffed and of a delicate 
brown color. Serve at once with Sabayon sauce. 

Grace Johnston (Omicron). 

Orange Delicious 

, ) boil 8 minutes and add orange juice 

1 cup water J . o ^ 

2 cups orange juice yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup cream 1 cup whipping cream 

Scald thin cream and add eggs. Cook over hot water until mixture 
thickens. Cool and add to first mixture with cream beaten stiff. 
Freeze. Grace L. Adams (Lambda Nu). 

Orange Float 
One pint of boiling water, one and one-half tablespoons of corn 
starch, dissolved in a little cold water, one cup of sugar, juice of one 
lemon, grated rind of half of it. When cold pour it over two oranges, 
sliced. Beat the whites of two eggs, with two tablespoons of sugar 
and spread over the top. Carrie D. Reed (Kappa). 

Orange Pudding 
Peel four large oranges, cut and sprinkle with one cup of sugar. 
Let stand while making custard. 
Custard : 

1 quart milk whites of 2 eggs 

yolks of 5 eggs little salt 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 
Steam custard until it thickens, then turn over the orange. 
Beat the whites of three eggs with powdered sugar. Drop on custard 
and brown in oven. Marguerite Klinker (Kappa). 



198 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Orange Pudding 

1 cup bread crumbs yolks 2 eggs 

}/2 cup sugar whites of 4 eggs 

grated rind and juice of }/2 large orange 
Cover bread crumbs with milk. Beat yolks until hght, add rind 
and juice of orange. Beat whites stiff and add sugar to whites. 
Add to batter. Bake in a pan set in water for thirty or forty minutes. 

Lois Tennant Pennock (Lambda). 

Golden Sauce for Orange Pudding 
^ cup butter 



Q , I cream 

%, cup sugar 

Add beaten yolks of two eggs and rind and juice of one-half large 

orange. Then add one-third cup hot milk. Beat well and let it 

come to a boil. Serve hot. 

Lois Tennant Pennock (Lambda Nu). 

Orange Puffs 

4 tablespoons butter yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 4 tablespoons milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder whites of 2 eggs 
1 teaspoon grated orange rind 2 cups flour 

Mix in order given and bake in small gem pans from twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. Serve hot with orange sauce. 

Lena F. Harris (Kappa). 

Orange Puffs 
6 yolks of eggs 1 pint milk 

5 tablespoons flour 3^ teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon melted butter 

Beat yolks of eggs very light, add milk, pour part of this mixture 
on the flour. Beat smooth and add the remainder of the mixture, 
then butter and salt. Half fill buttered muffin pans. Bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. Serve hot with sauce made from 

6 whites beaten stiff 1 cup powdered sugar 
juice of 1 lemon or 2 oranges. 

Pour over the puffs. Marjorie Preston Stevens (Lambda). 



DESSERTS 199 

Orange Short Cake 
3^ cup butter 1 cup flour 

Y2 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg pinch salt 

3<^ cup milk Yi teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar and egg well beaten. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients, adding alternately with milk to the first mixture. Beat 
thoroughly and bake. Cut up the oranges and cover with sugar 
cream sauce. Alberta E. Foote (Zeta). 

Cream Sauce for Orange Short Cake 
1 cup whipping cream 1^ teaspoon vanilla 

3^ cup powdered sugar 
Beat cream until stiff, add sugar and vanilla. Any kind of fruit or 
berries can be used in place of oranges. 

Alberta E. Foote (Zeta). 

Orange Short Cake 
Mix dough as for biscuit and bake in round pan. Split cake while 
hot and butter well. Slice oranges crosswise, removing seeds and place 
between the layers. Cover top of cake thickly with sugar. Serve 
with whipped cream. Edna M. McKinley (Rho Sigma). 

Baked Peaches 

Select large, fine peaches. 

Bake with skins (these may be removed before serving if pre- 
ferred). 

Before eating, it is better to remove the stone and cover the 
halves with sugar. Serve with either plain or whipped cream. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda). 

Baked Peach Dumplings 

1 pint flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup butter 
milk to make very soft dough 

Cut into strips and wrap around each peach (removing stones), 
leaving top and bottom of fruit exposed. Stand in baking dish in 



200 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

which they will be. served. Have ready one cup of water and two of 
sugar just boiled. Pour over dumplings and bake one-half hour. 
Serve with cream. If canned peaches are used, drain them and 
add juice to the syrup before pouring it on dumplings. Reserve 
some syrup to be served with cream, the quantity being too much to 
use while baking. Handle as little as possible. 

Martha WilHam (Alpha Beta). 

Peach Delight 

Place one or two halves of large yellow canned peaches in sherbet 
glasses. Fill seed cavities with chopped candied cherries and nuts 
and fill glasses with whipped cream. Top with whole candied cher- 
ries. Edith Shirley Wegeng (Iota). 

Pear Toast 

Slice stale sponge cake and toast both sides. Heap whipped 
cream on top and lay halved pears which have been cooked in 
syrup on top, placing an ahnond meat in the core cavity. 

Margaret Van Bergen (Lambda). 

Petchen 

1 cup sugar 3^ cup flour 

2 eggs 

Mix half the sugar in the yolks and beat five minutes. Add 
the other half to the beaten whites. Mix and add flour. Bake in 
gem pans. Serve with any fresh fruit, putting whipped cream or 
ice cream on top. Lena Harris (Kappa). 

Yankee Pie 

1 heaping cup flour 3^ cup milk 
}/8 cup sugar 1 egg 

}4 cup butter 1 tablespoon lard 

2 teaspoons baking powder salt, few grains of nutmeg 
Mix dry ingredients and sift twice. Work in shortening with tips 

of fingers. Add egg, well beaten, and milk. Fill a deep tin with 
sliced apples, add sugar, bits of butter and nutmeg. Cover with the 
shortcake and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out, so that apples are 
on top. While still warm cover with whipped cream and serve. 

Alice Bean Fraser (Lambda). 



DESSERTS 201 

Plum Pudding 

13/^ pounds seedless raisins Yi cup sugar 

2 ounces finely chopped citron 1 cup molasses 
Yi cup chopped ahnonds 1 teaspoon salt 

3 sour apples, chopped fine V/i cup bread crumbs 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup water 

Y2 teaspoon allspice and cloves 
1 cup chopped suet, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 
Steam four to six hours. 

Sauce 

1 egg, beaten well 1 cup sugar 
Yi cup butter 

Stir all to a cream. Add one tablespoon boiling water. Put in 
double boiler and boil until it thickens. Add vanilla. 

Maude Stedman Curtis (Omega). 

English Plum Pudding 

2 pounds bread crumbs Y ounce ground ginger 

2 pounds suet, chopped fine 1 pound granulated sugar 

2 pounds currants 1 wine glass brandy 

3 pounds raisins almond essence to flavor 
% pound mixed candied fruit peel 

6 eggs 

little over Y ounce mixed spice little salt 
Mix with eggs, well beaten, the brandy and other ingredients. 
Butter a bowl well, add the pudding, then leave enough room at the 
top of bowl for a layer of pastry (mix flour, baking powder and water 
and roll out), then tie cloth over the top so as to keep the water out. 
This will make three large puddings or five medium ones. Put into 
boiling water and boil six or eight hours. This is the English plmn 
pudding recipe. Marguerite Thompson (Sigma). 

Whipped Cream Punch 
1 egg Yi piiit whipping cream 

6 tablespoons sugar 12 maraschino cherries 

Beat the yolk of the egg with the sugar. Add the beaten white of 
the egg. Add the cream beaten as stiff as possible and flavor with 



202 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

maraschino cherry juice. Thoroughly chill. Just before serving 
beat well and add twelve maraschino cherries, cut fine. This recipe 
fills six ice cups. 

Alice Perry Gradle (Xi). 

Raisin Puffs 
2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

]/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sweet milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup raisins, stoned and chopped 
Steam one-half hour in cups. This recipe. makes twelve cups. 

Sarah Plaisance (Phi). 

Quick Pufif Pudding 

1 pint flour pinch salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
enough milk to make thick batter 

Put a spoonful of batter in well greased cups, then a spoonful of 
fruit, then another of batter, and steam. 

Sauce 
1 cup sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

}/2 cup butter 1 cup boiling milk 

1 cup fruit or fruit juice 

Mary E. Bowman (Theta). 

English Plum Pudding 

1 pound suet, chopped fine 
1 pound flour 1 cup sugar 

1 pound seeded raisins 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 pound currants salt 

Add water enough to make stiff batter. Stir all together, put in a 
two quart bowl and tie a cloth loosely over the top. Put in kettle of 
boiling water and boil five hours. Keep covered with bofling water all 
the time. 

Mrs. Charles Loring (Lambda). 



DESSERTS 203 

Prune Whip 
Cook primes. Rub through sieve. To one pint of pulp add whites 
of four eggs, well beaten, sugar to taste, a pinch of baking powder 
and one-fourth cup of nuts. Mix lightly and put in pudding dish. 
Bake very slowly until it rises. Let cool. 

Marguerite Klinker (Kappa). 

A Prune Whip Which Will Not Fall 
Squeeze cooked prunes through the potato ricer until there is a 
cupful. Add about a cup of sugar little by little to the whites of 
six eggs, each time beating the sugar in well before adding any more. 
The eggs should now be stiff. In the same way add the prunes 
little by little, beating them in well also. Put in a dish placed in a 
pan of cold water. Bake in a slow oven for about three-fourths of an 
hour. This serves eight people. Juanita Williams (Lambda). 

Raspberry Loaf 

Bake a sponge cake in a square tin. Cut off the top crust and 
remove center leaving the walls and bottom of the cake one inch 
thick. 

Fill the center with a layer of fresh whole red raspberries, which 
have had sugar sprinkled over them. Then add a layer of whipped 
cream to which has been added one tablespoonful of Knox Gelatine 
soaked in a little cold water, and dissolved in a third of a cup of hot 
milk. (Use the Knox Gelatine in the proportion of one tablespoonful 
to one pint of whipping cream.) Now add another layer of rasp- 
berries, and so on until the center is filled. Put the top back on the 
cake and put in the ice box to chill. 

When ready to sei-ve cut in slices and more whipped cream may 
be added if so desired. The cream should be sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda Nu). 

Baked Rice Pudding 
1 quart milk 4 tablespoons rice 

1 cup sugar little salt 

1 cup raisins 
Bake for two hours. The pudding should be stirred frequently 
while baking. Hazel Bisbee (Pi). 



204 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Rice and Dates 

1 cup rice 1 tablespoon salt 

2 quarts boiling water 

Boil twenty or thirty minutes, drain in coarse strainer, pour one 
cup boiling water over it. Return to kettle and set in warm place 
to dry off. Season with salt and butter. Arrange on dish in circle 
and fill with dates as follows: wash one-half pound dates, remove 
stones, cut into small pieces and cook with one-half cup water and 
one tablespoon sugar until soft and tender. 

Verna Cooper (Iota). 



Rice and Peach Pudding 

Boil one-half cup rice in water until tender. Cover with milk 
and cook till absorbed. Add one cup sugar, one tablespoon butter and 
two beaten eggs. Place a layer of this in a buttered baking dish, then 
a layer of cooked peaches. Bake about twenty minutes and serve 
with the following sauce: cream two tablespoons butter and four 
tablespoons brown sugar: add yolks of two eggs and one-half cup 
peach syrup and a little cinnamon; cook till thickened. 

Katharine H. Johnson (Lambda). 



Rice Custard Pudding 

1 cup rice 3^ nutmeg 
^ cup sugar 1 pint milk 

2 heaping tablespoons seedless raisins 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

peel from 3^ orange sliced fine 

3 eggs 

Boil rice in liberal amount of water, until soft. Drain. Beat 
eggs, milk and sugar together until light. 

Add rice, vanilla and orange peel. Sprinkle nutmeg on top after 
putting in a baking dish. Bake until well browned. Serve hot with 
cream or cream sauce. 

Aileen Belyea Critchett (Lambda Nu). 



DESSERTS 205 



Sally Lunn 

2 tablespoons butter, melted IH cups cream or milk 

3 eggs, beaten separately 3 cups flour 

Yi cup sugar pinch of salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder in cup of flour 

Bake in loaf. Serve with hot pudding sauce. 

Mary Bogue (Gamma). 

Cold Short Cake 

2 cups berries, measure after mashing 
2 cups sugar, pulverized 
2 egg whites, well beaten 
Beat sugar into berries, then beat in whites. Mix thoroughly. 
Cut any light layer cake into small squares, taking two squares 
for each person. Cover one piece with ice cream, put second piece 
on top cover it with ice cream, and put the above mixture over this. 

Harriet Waters (Lambda Nu). 

Short Cake 

1 pint flour M teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar \\i cups sweet milk 

2 tablespoons butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add butter as for pie and then add milk. 
Half the recipe makes a small short cake, enough for two people. 

AUce Meese (Eta Upsilon). 

Short Cake 

2 cups flour Vi teaspoon salt 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

Yi cup milk 4 tablespoons butter 

1 egg, beaten until very Hght 
Sift the flour, then measure and sift again with dry ingredients. 
Cut or rub the butter into the flour. Add milk and eggs mixed, to 
flour, mix lightly. Roll on floured board three-fourths of an inch 
thick. Bake in one cake or cut as large biscuits for individual short 
cakes. Split open, spread Ughtly with butter then thickly with 



206 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

sweetened fruit. Cover with upper crust and serve with juice of 
fruit sweetened, and with cream. 

Strawberries, canned peaches, raspberries, or blackberries may- 
be used, or sliced oranges and bananas to which lemon juice and 
sugar have been added. 

Marguerite Stewart (Kappa). 

Snow Balls 

]/i cup butter ^ teaspoon salt 

% cup sugar 2 cups flour 

1 cup milk whites of 2 eggs 

3 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream the sugar and butter, add the milk, salt, flour with baking 
powder, beat the whites of eggs stiff and add last. Steam in round 
bottomed glasses one-half hour. While hot roll in cocoanut or 
shredded blanched almonds. Serve with a fresh fruit sauce. This 
recipe serves eight. 

Frances Hall Cook (Sigma). 

Snow Pudding 

1 pint boihng water 1 tablespoon sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch pinch of salt 

Boil together three or four minutes. Remove and beat in whites 
of two eggs. Pour into mould and let cool. 

Harriet Waterman (Chi). 

Sponge Pudding 

3^ cup sugar ^ cup butter 

]/2 cup flour yolks of 5 eggs 

1 pint milk, scalded 
Mix sugar and flour and little cold milk, cook until it thickens in 
hot milk, stirring carefully. Add butter and well beaten yolks, 
stirring constantly. Remove from fire, cool slightly, fold in stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake in pan set in hot water thirty-five or forty min- 
utes. 



DESSERTS 207 

Sauce 

14: cup butter, creamed; add 
]/2 cup powdered sugar 
2 tablespoons sherry, add slowly 
2 tablespoons cream 
Just before serving place over hot water and stir until smooth. 
Margaret Monroe Williamson (Lambda). 

Pineapple Sponge 

2 cups of grated pineapple 3^ teaspoon salt 

3^ cup of minute tapioca 1 lemon, juice 

3^ cup of sugar whites of 2 eggs 

Heat the pineapple in double boiler. Mix sugar, salt and tapioca, 
and add to hot pineapple. When transparent, add lemon juice and 
whites of eggs, beaten until stiff. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Theodora Stark Carpenter (Lambda). 

Strawberry Steamed Pudding 

1 heaping tablespoon butter ^ cup milk 

1 egg and yolk of another 1 cup of sugar 

2 scant cups flour 1 cup mashed strawberries 
1)4, teaspoons baking powder 

Put in individual cups which have been greased, and steam 
twenty minutes. Serve with fresh strawberry sauce. 

Florence Madsen (Gamma). 

Steamed Pudding 

)/2 cup corn syrup 13^ cups flour 

}/2 cup brown sugar few drops mapleine 

}/2 cup lukewarm water 3^ teaspoon soda 

3^ teaspoon cinnamon 3^ cup raisins 

}/2 teaspoon cloves 3^ cup nut meats 

3/^ teaspoon cream of tartar 2 eggs 

3^ teaspoon salt 
Steam one hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

Helen Malcomson (Xi). 



208 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Boiled Suet Pudding 
y<i cup suet, chopped fine 

1 cup raisins 1 cup milk 

Y^ cup currants 1 cup molasses 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda 
Boil in pudding bag two hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Edna R. Brush (Chi). 

Suet Pudding 
1 cup selected suet, chopped fine 
1 cup molasses 

1 even teaspoon soda, dissolved in molasses 
1 cup sweet milk Y^ cup raisins 

1 even teaspoon salt 2}/^ cups flour 

1 even teaspoon cinnamon 
Yi teaspoon cloves, allspice and nutmeg, mixed 
Steam three hours. 

Mrs. Mary E. Spaulding Barker (Omega). 

Cherry Tapioca 

XYi pounds sour cherries sugar to sweeten 

1 level cup pearl tapioca 
Soak tapioca over night in cold water. Put tapioca over fire with 
one pint boiling water and simmer slowly until tapioca is clear. Stone 
the cherries, stir into the boiling tapioca and sweeten. Serve cold 
with cream. 

Edna M. McKinley (Rho Sigma) . 

Tapioca Custard 

' Three tablespoons tapioca soaked five hours. Pour off the water 
and put tapioca into one quart of milk; boil ten minutes, then add 
yolks of four eggs, well beaten with one-half cup of sugar. Boil 
five minutes, add three tablespoons dessicated cocoanut. Pour 
into dish and put over top the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth 
with three tablespoons granulated sugar. Sprinkle cocoanut over the 
top and brown in oven. 

Mrs. F. R. Wooster (Rho). 



DESSERTS 209 

Tapioca Pudding 
Soak four tablespoons of tapioca over night. Drain, add one 
quart of milk and boil twenty minutes in double boiler. Add four 
eggs (leaving the whites of three for the top), beaten with one-half 
cup sugar, pinch of salt and one teaspoon vanilla. Add to milk and 
cook until creamed, and remove from fire. Beat the three remaining 
whites, add three tablespoons sugar. Arrange half on the pudding 
and to the remainder add one heaping tablespoon cocoa. Drop on 
the top and place in a hot oven for a few minutes. 

Grace Z. McMillan (Xi). 

Lemon Tapioca 

In a double boiler cook two and one-half cups water, one-half 
cup minute tapioca, one cup sugar, until clear. Remove from the 
stove and add the juice of two lemons. When quite cool, fold in the 
whites of two eggs. Serve very cold with custard sauce. 

Harriet Bliss Stocking (Chi). 

Tapioca and Pineapple 

One cup pearl tapioca, soaked over night. Cook until clear. 
Add one can grated pineapple, three cups sugar, juice of two lemons, 
beaten whites of three eggs. EUzabeth Small (Phi). 

Schaum Torte 

To whites of six eggs, beaten stiff, add one and one-half cups 
granulated sugar and one tablespoon vinegar. Add a little flavoring, 
if desired. Fold in sugar. Put into an angel food pan and bake one 
hour in a slow oven. Serve with whipped cream, with or without 
fresh fruit. Miss M. P. Stachs (Zeta). 

Vegetable Pudding 
1 cup suet, chopped 1 cup sugar 

1 cup grated apple 2 cups flour 

1 cup grated potato 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup grated carrots 2 teaspoons salt 

1 cup chopped raisins 1 cup currants 

cinnamon and other spices to taste 
]4: pound citron 
Steam three hours. Florence Graham (Lambda Nu). 



210 DELTA GAMMA BOOK COOK 

Wheat Fritters 

1 egg 1}/^ teaspoon baking powder 
^ cup milk pinch of salt 

Add flour enough to make thick batter, and drop by tablespoon 
into deep fat. Anne Puffer Taylor (Lambda Nu). 

Fritter Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup sugar 
1 tablespoon flour 

Beat the three ingredients together. Then add one-half cup 
boihng water and cook until clear. Flavor with juice of one-half 
lemon. Anne Puffer Taylor (Lambda Nu). 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Strawberries 

Prepare berries as for ordinary serving. Warm biscuit in oven 
before using. Cut or crush oblong cavity in top of biscuit to form 
basket. Fill the cavity with berries and serve with cream or milk. 
Sweeten to taste. Peaches, blackberries, raspberries, blueberries, 
pineapple, bananas, and other fruit, fresh or preserved, can be 
served with shredded wheat biscuit in the same way. 

In steaming puddings or breads let steam slowly at first. 

Gelatine Desserts 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 

Make a custard of one egg, one-half cup milk, one-half cup sugar. 
Add one-fourth cup strong coffee, one and one-half teaspoons gelatine 
dissolved in a little cold water. When mixture has become slightly 
stiff add one-half pint whipped cream. 

Leulah J. Hawley (Lambda Nu). 

Pineapple Bavarian 

1 can sliced pineapple or 

Yi can sliced pineapple and Y2 grated pineapple 
Y2, package Knox's gelatine Y cup cold water 

juice of Y2 lemon 2 cups double cream 

% scant cup sugar 2 dozen pistachio nuts 

2 dozen candied or maraschino cherries 



DESSERTS 211 

Cut slices of pineapple in two, then split the halves and use to 
line bottom and sides of a mould, holding five cups. Soften gelatine 
with cold water and dissolve in one cup hot pineapple, either grated, 
or sliced made fine, and mixed with the syrup in the can; add sugar 
and lemon juice and stir over ice water until beginning to set; then 
add one-half the cherries and nuts chopped, and fold in one and 
one-half cups of cream beaten solid. Turn into hned mould. When 
cold and set, unmould and decorate with rest of cream, beaten solid, 
and sprinkle with rest of chopped cherries and nuts. 

Grace Johnston (Omicron). 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream 

1 whole pineapple 1 cup sugar 
Y2 box Knox's gelatine 

Yi cup cold water 2 lemons 

Yi cup hot water 1 pint cream 

Stew the pineapple with the sugar ten minutes, if canned fruit is 
used, longer if fresh fruit is used. Soak the gelatine in cold water 
and dissolve in the boiling water, add juice of two lemons, and 
strain into the fruit and beat until slightly cool. Add the whipped 
cream and pour in a plain mould or one lined with cake. 

Helen Hine Aigler (Xi). 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 

One pint strawberries (canned or fresh fruit) in which one-half 
package Knox's gelatine has been dissolved. When partly set, beat 
to a froth and add one cup cream whipped stiff. Pour in mold. 
Serve with whipped cream. If canned fruit is used add few^^^drops 
lemon juice to fruit. Nettie V. Drew (Alpha Delta). 

Caramel Charlotte 

2 tablespoons Knox's gelatine 

Y cup cold water 1 cup cream 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup boihng water 1 cup whipped cream 

Soak the gelatine in cold water. [Scald cream. Make caramel of 
sugar by cooking in an iron frying*pan until light brown. Add 



212 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

boiling water to it, slowly. Add hot cream. Pour tablespoon hot 
water over the gelatine and add the first mixture to it. Place in a 
bowl of ice and stir occasionally. When mixture becomes thick, and 
like syrup, add whipped cream and flavoring. Pour into a wet 
mould and cool. 

Theodora Stark Carpenter (Lambda). 

Charlotte Russe 

1 tablespoon Knox's granulated gelatine 
Yi cup cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 pint cream lady fingers 

3^ cup powdered sugar 
Soak gelatine in cold water. Whip cream and sprinkle sugar over 
it. Dissolve gelatine over hot water, strain into whipped cream, 
beating all the time and add flavoring. Stand bowl containing 
mixture in ice water and stir continually until it begins to thicken. 
Turn into a mould lined with lady fingers. 

Elvira Smith (Epsilon). 

Charlotte Russe 

1 quart of cream, a little less than Yi package of gelatine 
Sweeten and flavor the cream, dissolve the gelatine in one-half 
tumbler of milk (set in a vessel of hot milk) . 

Whip the cream, add the gelatine and whip a little longer. 

Mabel M. Reese (Psi). 

Charlotte Russe 

Make a custard of one cup milk, yolks of two eggs, one cup 
sugar, one teaspoon vanilla. Add when made, three good teaspoons 
of gelatine which have been soaked in a little cold water. Whip 
one quart of cream very stiff. When custard begins to harden, add 
it slowly to the cream and beat thoroughly. Pour into a dish which 
has been lined with sponge cake. Let harden. This will serve twelve 
persons. 

Leulah J. Hawley (Lambda Nu). 



DESSERTS 213 

French Chocolate Cream 

1 pint heavy cream 1 cup powdered sugar 

2 ounces bitter chocolate 1}^ teaspoons gelatine 
}/2 teaspoon butter ^ teaspoon vanilla 
Yi cup water 

Combine chocolate, water, butter and melt over hot water. 
Add gelatine, which should be allowed to stand in water to cover, 
and stir in powdered sugar. Cool, stirring occasionally so that it will 
not set. Fold slowly into the cream which should be beaten stiff. 
Pour into a mold wet with cold water and chill. Will serve eight. 

Ahce B. Fraser (Lambda Nu). 



Delight Pudding 

Soak one tablespoon Knox's powdered gelatine in one-fourth 
cup cold water for five minutes, dissolve it in one-fourth cup boiling 
water and add one cup sugar. When cooled to thick syrup, add one 
pint heavy cream, beaten stiff, one-half dozen rolled macaroons, one 
dozen marshmallows, a few candied cherries, cut up, and one- 
fourth pound chopped blanched almonds. Flavor with vanilla or 
sherry. Set in mould, in cold place, to harden. Serve with whipped 
cream, or not as preferred. 

Florence Schuyler Thorpe (Lambda). 



Fruit Pudding 

juice of 1 can of pineapple 

juice of 1 lemon 3^ cup sugar 

Yi box of Knox's lemon gelatine dissolved in 

Yi cup cold water 
Let come to a boil then pour over the beaten whites of four eggs. 
Cut the pineapple in small pieces and add one-half pound Malaga 
grapes, halved and seeded. Arrange the fruit in a mould, pour the 
liquid gelatine over it and let congeal. Serve with a soft custard. 
Drop flecks of whipped cream over the top. 

Nelle McCoy Frank (Theta). 



214 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Macaroon Pudding 
Dissolve one-half package Knox's gelatine in one pint of milk. 
Cook in double boiler until milk is warm, then add yolks of four 
eggs well beaten with cup of sugar. Cook until creamy. Beat the 
whites of the eggs and add to the custard when taken from the 
stove. Flavor with vanilla, pour into mould, which has been wet 
with cold water and lined with macaroons. Serve with whipped 
cream. Mrs. F. R. Wooster (Rho). 

Marshmallow Pudding 

}/^ cup sugar 

3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately 

1 pint scalded milk 

1 tablespoon Knox's gelatine 

}4: pound marshmallows, cut in small pieces 

}/2 cup nuts 

3^ cup maraschino cherries 
Beat eggs and sugar well, add the hot milk and cook until a coat- 
ing will form on the spoon. Soak gelatine in one tablespoon of cold 
water. Add this to custard and stir until dissolved. Strain and 
beat imtil partially cool, then add the marshmallows, nuts and 
cherries. The custard should not be hot enough to entirely melt the 
marshmallows. Last of all, add stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Cool 
in mould. Serve with whipped cream and cherries. 

Grace Ware Chambers (Lambda). 

Marshmallow Pudding 

Dissolve four teaspoons Knox's gelatine in one cup warm water 
over tea-kettle. Beat whites of five eggs very stiff, pinch of salt. 

Add to them one and one-fourth cups granulated sugar and beat 
well. Then add dissolved gelatine and beat ten minutes. Flavor 
with vanilla. Put in cups or moulds. 

Sauce 

yolks of 5 eggs vanilla 

1 pint milk 
Cook thick. Serves twelve. 

Julia'^B. "Gould (Lambda Nu). 



DESSERTS 215 

Nesselrode Pudding 

1 pint sweet milk % cup sugar 

5 eggs % cup raisins 

Y2 box Knox's gelatine Y2 cups chopped nuts 

Y2 pint cold water 2 teaspoons vanilla 

yi pound chopped macaroons 
Boil milk in double boiler. Add to sugar, beaten yolks and 
gelatine dissolved in cold water. Add other ingredients. Fold in 
beaten whites. Cook just a minute, pour in mould and serve in 
slices with whipped cream or maple ice cream. Let stand six or 
seven hours. Serves eight generously. 

Harriet Moore Pier (Lambda). 

Creamed Pineapple Pudding 

One-half, box gelatine, soaked in one-half cup cold water. Add 
one-half cup boiling water to dissolve it. Cook together for ten 
minutes the following, 

1 can shredded pineapple Y2 cup cold water 

1 cup sugar 
Add the dissolved gelatine. Before thoroughly cold, add one 
pint whipped cream. Mix lightly. Put in mould. Let harden, 
cut in slices to serve. Whipped cream may be used in serving. 
This serves twelve. Blanche Garten (Kappa). 

Rice Souffle 

1 pint whipped cream 1 tablespoon rice, boiled 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon gelatine 
Dissolve gelatine in warm water. Mix it with one tablespoon of 
rice, one tablespoon of powdered sugar and one teaspoon vanilla. 
Add this mixture to the whipped cream. Put in a wet mould and 
let it stand on ice for three hours. Serve with melted maple sugar. 

Leonora Mann (Lambda). 

Snow Pudding 

Pour one pint of boiling water on one-half box of Knox's gelatine. 
Add the juice of one lemon, and two cups of sugar. When nearly cold, 



216 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

strain. Add the whites of three eggs, beaten to a froth; beat the 
whole together, add candied cherries and chopped marshmallows. 
Put in a dish and set on ice. Make a boiled custard with the yolks 
of three eggs, one pint of milk, one large tablespoon sugar, one 
teaspoon cornstarch and flavoring. Serve cold, pouring the custard 
around the snow. Alice Kinnard Glenn (Theta) . 

Spanish Cream 

Dissolve one tablespoon of Knox's gelatine in a pint of milk. 
Heat to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add this to the 
yolks of two eggs, beaten with two tablespoons of sugar and a teaspoon 
of vanilla. Heat until it becomes like custard. Then pour onto 
whites of two eggs, beaten to a sti,ff froth. Pour into punch glasses 
and set aside to cool. Letitia McHose (Alpha Beta). 

Strawberry Sponge 

1 quart strawberries H package Knox's gelatine 

13^ cups water 1 cup sugar 

juice of 1 lemon whites of 4 eggs 

Soak gelatine two hours in half cup water. Mash strawberries, 
and add one-half the sugar to them. Boil remainder of sugar and 
cup of water, gently, twenty minutes. Rub strawberries through a 
sieve. Add gelatine to boiling syrup and take from fire immediately; 
then add strawberries. Place in pan of ice water and beat five 
minutes. Add whites of eggs and beat until mixture begins to 
thicken. Pour into moulds and set away to harden. Serve with 
sugar and cream. Raspberry and blackberry sponges are made in 
the same way. Grace Johnston (Omicron). 

Tutti Frutti Pudding 

]/2 box of Knox's gelatine 1 teaspoon vanilla 

% cup sugar 3^ cup cold water 

1 teaspoon brandy % cup raisins 

5 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately 
3 tablespoons blanched almonds 

23/2 cups milk 34 pound macaroons 

Soak gelatine in water five minutes and dissolve in cooked 



DESSERTS 217 

custard, made of milk, sugar and yolks of eggs. Add chopped 
raisins, macaroons, almonds (pounded fine), vanilla, brandy, and 
lastly, whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Stir over ice water until it begins 
to thicken. Turn into a mould and place in a cool place. Cut in 
squares and serve with whipped cream, 

Isabel Hoover (Iota). 

Pudding Sauces 

Brandy Sauce 

1 cup granulated sugar butter size of egg 

1 teaspoon cornstarch 1 egg 

Stir well together, then add one cup boiling water, stir thoroughly 
until boiled to a smooth cream. Then add three tablespoons of 
good brandy. One teaspoon vanilla may be used in place of the 
brandy. Bess Wilde (Pi). 

Butter Scotch Sauce 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons boiling water 

3^ cup molasses ]/2 cup butter 

1 tablespoon vinegar 
Boil to a syrup. Serve warm or cold, especially good on vanilla 
ice-cream. Helen Stevens West (Sigma). 

Chocolate Sauce 

1 cup sugar 2 ounces chocolate 
3/2 cup water }4, teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook all ingredients except vanilla, twelve minutes, then add 
vanilla. Serve cold. Katherine Clendenning (Chi). 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cream 

1 pint sugar 1 pint milk 

14, cake Baker's chocolate 

1 tablespoon butter 1 egg, beaten frothy 

Put in double boiler and let thicken. 

Helen Hine Aigler (Xi). 



218 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Kentucky Chocolate Sauce 

Grate one cup chocolate, cook with a little hot water and dissolve 
it. Mash to a smooth paste, add three tablespoons of cream, one 
walnut of butter, three-fourths cup sugar. 

Cook in double boiler at least one hour. Flavor with vanilla. 

Helen Stevens West (Sigma). 

Creamy Sauce 

y^i cup butter 

1 even cup powdered sugar 

3^ cup cream or milk 

4 tablespoons wine or 

1 teaspoon vanilla, or lemon extract 
If lemon or vanilla is used, add four tablespoons of cream. Beat 
the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, beating all the 
while. When light and creamy, gradually add the wine and then the 
cream, a little at a time. When all is beaten smooth, place the 
bowl in a basin of hot water and stir until the sauce is smooth and 
creamy, no longer. It will take only a few minutes. This is a de- 
licious sauce and if well beaten and not kept in hot water long 
enough to melt the sugar, it will be white and foamy all through. 

Evalyn Raynolds (Gamma) . 

Custard Sauce 

^ cup milk yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

pinch of salt 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

Serve with pudding cold. 

Harriet Waterman (Chi). 

Fig Sauce for Pudding 

Cream together one small cup powdered sugar and one tablespoon 
butter. Let brown on stove, then add a little cream, stirring well. 
Add one-half dozen figs, chopped fine. Beat stiff the whites of two 
eggs and add to the mixture, after it has cooled. 

Marie Barnes Morrow (Lambda). 



DESSERTS 219 

Foam Sauce 

Beat the whites of two eggs very light, add one cup of sugar as 
for icing and flavor with lemon or sherry. 

Harriet D. Moore (Lambda). 

Fresh Fruit Sauce 
Cream one-third cup butter, one cup powdered sugar, flavor with 
vanilla. Beat into mixture one cupful of berries or peaches. 

G. M. Seeley (Theta). 

Fresh Fruit Sauce for Shortcake 
1 cup berries, cut in pieces, then measured 
1 cup sugar 1 egg white, unbeaten 

Put all together, beat with egg beater until thick like whipped 
cream. Put between layers and on top of layer cake. Cover with 
whole berries. Harriet Waters (Lambda) . 

Hard Sauce 
Cream one-half cup butter with two cups of confectioner's XXXX 
sugar. Add one tablespoon boiling water, the whites of two stiffly 
beaten eggs and one teaspoon vanilla. 

Grace G. OHn (Eta Upsilon). 

Hard Sauce 

}/2 cup butter 1 egg 

1 cup powdered sugar 
Cream butter and sugar. Beat egg with egg beater, then with a 
fork, mix it slowly with butter and sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

Grace Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Lemon Sauce 
1 large cup sugar small 3^ cup butter 

juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 1 egg 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 3 teaspoons hot water 

Cream butter and sugar, beat in egg whipped light, lemon and 
nutmeg. Beat hard, add water, spoonful at a time. Steam but do 
not boil, until sauce thickens. Esther Swisher (Tau Zeta). 



220 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Liquid Sauce for Puddings 
2 tablespoons melted butter 
4 tablespoons sugar 1 egg, beaten 

Stir in whipped cream and flavor. 

Mrs. Charles Loring (Lambda). 

Orange Sauce 
2 tablespoons flour 2 cups orange juice 

2 cups boiling water 2 teaspoons orange rind 

6 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

Mix flour and sugar, gradually adding the boiling water and cook 
for ten minutes. Add other ingredients, heat and serve. 

Lena F. Harris (Kappa) . 

Pudding Sauce 
1 cup powdered sugar 2 eggs 

butter size of an egg flavor with vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten yolks, flavoring, and fold 
in whites of eggs. 

Pudding Sauce 
cream % cup butter 2 eggs 

l}4. cups sugar 
Set on back of stove. 

Grace C. Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Sauce for Pudding 
3^ cup butter 1 cup powdered sugar 

Cream the above. Add three-fourths cup crushed strawberries. 

Mrs. F. R. Perry (Xi Zeta). 

Raspberry Sauce 

1 cup raspberry jelly juice of 3^ lemon 

3^ teaspoon cornstarch, rubbed smooth in water 
Heat until it comes to a boil. Serve with cottage pudding, rice, 
cornstarch or shepherd pudding. 

Lucy Johnson Osmer (Phi Omega) . 



DESSERTS 221 

Sabayon Sauce 

In upper part of double boiler put one egg and two egg yolks; 
beat until well mixed; then add one-half cup sugar and beat thor- 
oughly. Set over very hot water, and beat while one-half cup sherry 
wine is gradually stirred in. When sauce has thickened slightly 
add one teaspoon lemon juice and turn into cold dish to arrest cook- 
ing. Serve at once. 

Care must be taken to avoid curdling the egg. Occasionally lift 
the saucepan from the water which should not reach the boiling 
point. Grace Johnston (Omicron) . 

Sauce for Any Steamed Pudding 

Cream two tablespoons butter and one-half cup sugar. Add 
well beaten egg. Just before serving fold in one cup heavy cream, 
whipped. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda Nu) . 

Soft Sauce 

2 cups water 3^ cup butter 

1 cup sugar pinch of salt 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 
Flavor to suit taste. Cook until creamy. 

Elizabeth McDowell (Omicron). 

Sterling Sauce 

Cream one-half cup of butter, add slowly one-half cup of granu- 
lated sugar, and one-half cup of maple sugar. Drop in very slowly 
four teaspoons of cream and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Miriam Scofield (Mu). 

Strawberry Sauce 

14 cup butter white of 1 egg, beaten stiff 

1 cup powdered sugar % cup strawberries 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten white of egg and last, the 
berries. Red raspberries may be used. 

Frances Hall Cook (Sigma) . 



222 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Whipped Cream Sauce 

Two tablespoons butter creamed well with two tablespoons sugar. 
Add one egg well beaten. Measure one cup whipping cream and 
whip. Fold into first mixture. Flavor with vanilla. 

Margaret Benton Eichhorn (Lambda Nu) . 



ICES AND ICE CREAMS 

Foundation for Any Fruit Ice 
(Serves Twelve) 

Boil until a thin syrup, two cups sugar and two cups water. 
Add to juice of two lemons, strained, other fruit juice and two cups 
cold water. 

Pack and freeze. If necessary to keep it for several hours, dissolve 
one envelope Knox's gelatine and add to mixture while hot. Use 
above proportions to the following fruit quantities: 

Cranberry Ice 

Five teacups cranberries, one and one-half cups water, boiled ten 
minutes or more. Strain. Katherine Cole (Phi). 

Grape Ice 

Five and one-haK teacups Concord grapes, mashed and boiled 
for five minutes with one cup water. Strain before adding to syrup. 

Orange Ice 
Juice six oranges, strained. If desired grate in some of the rind. 

Peach Ice 
Juice and pulp (mashed) of six peaches. 

Strawberry Ice 
Six teacups strawberries, mashed to pulp. 

Biscuit Tortoni 

1 pint whipped cream Y^ cup rolled macaroons 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon chopped almonds 

1 cup water ' 3^ cup sherry 

4 eggs, yolks Yi teaspoon almond extract 

Make syrup, beat eggs well and add to syrup when cold. Cook in 
double boiler, beat in cold water, add whipped cream. Pack and 
freeze. Mrs. H. S. Robertson (Phi Omega). 

223 



224 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Caramel Ice Cream 

1 pint milk 3 beaten eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 level tablespoon flour 
Add to hot milk and cook. Put one cup sugar in frying pan and 
heat until it becomes liquid. Add one-half cup water and let it become 
liquid again. Strain into custard and add one quart cream and 
vanilla to taste. Freeze. 

Mabel A. Brown (Rho Sigma). 

Caramel Ice Cream 

1 cup sugar ^ cup flour 

1 quart milk 2 eggs 

Beat sugar, flour and eggs together and let the quart of milk 
come to a boil, and then add the sugar, flour and eggs. Put one cup 
sugar in frying pan and stir until it turns liquid and begins to smoke. 
Add to the custard, cool, strain and add one quart sweet cream. 

This makes a delicious dessert if marshmallows which have been 
cut into bits are added when the cream is half frozen. 

Ellen Glasscoff (Zeta). 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Mix one cup sugar and two tablespoons flour, add two beaten 
eggs. Add one pint scalded milk and two squares melted chocolate. 
Cook in double boiler until thick and smooth. When cool add one 
pint cream and freeze. 

Florence Thorpe (Lambda). 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

1 tablespoon flour 

134 cups sugar pinch of salt 

Add gradually two cups scalded milk. Melt three squares of 
chocolate over hot water, add slowly to boiling custard. Then add 
one can condensed cream and one can of milk (equals one quart 
cream) and freeze. 

Hattie Mae Brown (Phi). 



ICES AND ICE CREAMS 225 

Coffee Frappe 

2 cups cream, for whipping 

1 cup strong coffee (ice cold) 
1 cup powdered sugar, powdered fine 
Whip cream well. Add coffee, which must be ice cold, drop by 
drop. Then mix in sugar a few grains at a time, using the whipping 
motion throughout the making of the frappe. 

Remove from bowl, place in mould and pack in freezing mixture 
of ice and rock salt in the proportion two to one. 

Grace Johnston (Omicron). 

Cranberry Ice 

1 quart cranberries 1 pint hot water 

Cook five minutes. Strain and add two cups sugar and juice of 
two lemons. Freeze. 

Marion Gaylord Kellogg 
(Lambda and Omega Sigma). 

Lemon Ice 
1 quart rich milk 

Y2 cup lemon juice 2 cups sugar 

Dissolve sugar in the lemon juice. Put the milk in the freezer in 
order to chill, then stir in the juice. Freeze. If so desired add one 
cup of pineapple juice to vary the recipe, also an extra cup of sugar. 

LiUian Smith Burwell (Lambda). 

Maple Ice Cream 

3 eggs 

1 cup maple syrup 
1 pint cream, whipped 
1 cup chopped walnuts, or pecans 
Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, pour the boihng hot maple 
syrup upon them, beat until light. When cold add the beaten whites 
of the eggs, the cream and the walnuts. Freeze. Enough for six 
people. 

Susanna H. Parry (Alpha Beta). 



226 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Maple Mousse 
whip Yi pint cream add Yi cup maple syrup 

add pinch salt 
Put in mould and freeze. In summer this can be packed in ice 
and salt. This can also be frozen like ice cream in a freezer. Any 
amount may be used, always using one-half as much maple syrup 
as cream. 

Grace Conners Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Peanut Mousse 

1 pint whipping cream 
Yi pound peanut brittle candy 
Whip cream until stiff and add the peanut brittle which has been 
ground through meat grinder. Put in mould and let stand packed 
in ice and salt for several hours. 

Adah Ragsdale Parsons (Tau). 

Maple Mousse 

yolks of 2 eggs, beaten light 

1 cup maple syrup 

Put over the fire and heat until it thickens on the spoon. Take 
from the fire, place in a pan of cold water, and stir until creamy. 
When cold, add one pint of whipped cream. Freeze four or five 
hours by packing in ice and plenty of rock salt. Snow may be used 
in winter. 

Hortense K. Mac Donald (Sigma). 

Maryland Ice 

2 quarts ripe strawberries 1 pint cream 

2 pounds sugar 1 teaspoon flavoring 

Yi cup powdered sugar Yi cup chopped nuts 

Mash berries with granulated sugar and let stand for one hour, 
then strain through a cloth, pressing out all juice. Add an equal 
measure of water. Pack in freezer and begin to freeze. Remove 
dasher and pack ice quite solid. Let stand twenty minutes. Open 
and scoop out center to bottom, leaving an even portion all around 
sides. 



ICES AND ICE CREAMS 227 

Mix in large bowl the cream, powdered sugar and flavoring. When 
ice cold beat until stiff and dry. Skim off into another cold bowl and 
stir in nuts, pecans or walnuts, pour this into cavity in the freezer. 
Set freezer away and leave until frozen hard. When ready to serve 
remove tin and wrap for just a moment a warm cloth about it and 
pour contents out on platter. 

Margaret Van Bergen (Lambda). 

Peach Mousse 

3 peaches, mashed 

juice 1 lemon 1 cup sugar 

1 white of egg, beaten stiff 
Beat whole mixture until the consistency of stiff whipped cream 
and pack in salt and ice for four hours or more to freeze. This 
serves six portions generously. 

Peach Charlotte Russe 

Instead of freezing above mixture, pour it over sponge cake or 
lady fingers and chill. It serves at least eight portions. 

Katherine Cole (Phi). 

Peppermint Ice Cream 

One pound of old-fashioned peppermint stick candy. Soak this 
in one quart of milk over night. Freeze until mushy, then beat in 
one quart of stiffly whipped cream. Turn until well mixed, then 
remove dasher and let set. Edith Porter Meserve (Gamma). 

Pineapple Mousse 

1 tablespoon Knox's granulated gelatine in 

}4: cup cold water 1 cup pineapple syrup 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 cup sugar 2 cups heavy cream 

To pineapple juice, add sugar and bring to boiling point, add the 
soaked gelatine and lemon juice. Wlien cool and beginning to 
thicken, mix with the cream which has been whipped until stiff. 
Pack in a freezing mixture three to four hours. Other fruits may be 
used if desired. Frances Frost (Epsilon). 



228 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

1 quart berries 1 cup sugar 

Yi cup water Yi pint cream 

Press berries through a fine sieve, using the water to aid to the 
process. Add the sugar and the cream. The cream before freezing 
should be sweeter than desired, as a considerable amount of sweetness 
is lost in freezing. 

Note: One and one-half pints of raspberries or one pint of peach 
juice may be substituted for the strawberries, adding in that case the 
juice of a lemon and more sugar. 

Evelyn N. Wallridge (Omega). 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

1 quart strawberries 1 cup sugar 

lemon juice 1 cup water 

Sprinkle berries with sugar, cover and let stand two hours, 
mash well, add water and lemon juice to taste. Freeze. This 
method retains the material color of the berries. 

Ceha Frost (Lambda Nu). 

Frozen Strawberries 

Mash one quart of berries, add one cup sugar and juice of two 
lemons. Stand aside. Boil a pint of water and one cup sugar, when 
cool add the syrup to the berries and freeze. Serve with whipped 
cream. Raspberries may be used instead of strawberries. 

Clara King Allen (Lambda). 

Strawberry Sherbet 

Mash two boxes strawberries. Strain and add two pounds 
granulated sugar and juice of one lemon. Let stand one hour, stirring 
occasionally to dissolve sugar. Measure juice and add as much water 
as you have juice. Pour into freezer and as it begins to freeze add the 
beaten whites of two eggs. When frozen it will nearly fill a gallon 
freezer. 

Lillian Smith Burwell (Lambda). 



ICES AND ICE CREAMS 229 

Chocolate Ice Cream Sauce 

Two squares chocolate melted in one cup boiling water. Mix 
one cup sugar and rounding teaspoon cornstarch together and stir 
into water and chocolate. Boil until thick. 

Alcetta Gilbert Clarke (Lambda). 



BEVERAGES 

Blackberry Acid 

On twelve pounds of ripe fruit (strawberries or grapes will be 
equally as good as blackberries) pour one-half gallon boiling water. 
Put away in an earthen jar and let stand forty-eight hours, then put 
up to drip without squeezing. To every pint of juice, add one and 
one-half pounds of white sugar and five ounces of tartaric acid. 
Mix well and put away for use. Do not cork too tightly at first. 
Can be used immediately after making. Serve in a glass of crushed 
ice, using two or three tablespoons of the acid, then fiUing the glass 
with water. 

Mrs. Mary Comfort Leonard 
(One of Delta Gamma's Founders). 

Blackberry Wine 

Cover one gallon of blackberries with water. Crush, let stand 
three days, strain. Bottle, but do not cork. Sweeten slightly, 
remove scum until no more rises, then cork. 

Alice Scott EUis (Lambda, Xi, Upsilon). 

Pineapple Cider 

To each ground pineapple, add two quarts water. Allow to stand 
until it ferments, about three days in warm weather. Strain off water 
and to each quart of the liquid add about one-third pound sugar. 
Bottle and fasten corks well. Lay bottles on side. The cider will 
be ready to use in three or four days. 

Josephine Warren Rescott (Rho Sigma). 

Cocoa 

Mix one tablespoon cocoa and three tablespoons boiling water. 
Put into stewpan and bring to a boil, add three cups milk. Beat 
with dover beater, add one-half teaspoon vanilla and serve. 

Margaret Van Bergen (Lambda). 

230 



BEVERAGES 231 

Frappe 

6 dozen lemons 
3 dozen oranges 
6 cans grated pineapple 

2 boxes strawberries or large bottle maraschino cherries 
173^ pounds sugar 
To the juice of oranges and lemons add the other ingredients. 
Dilute with water just before using. This recipe serves 300. 

Unsigned. 

Grape Juice 

Cook twenty pounds Concord grapes in four quarts water until 
free from seeds; strain, add three pounds of sugar, boil twenty 
minutes, bottle and seal. 

Mrs. Charles Loring (Lambda). 

Mulled Grape Juice 
1 quart bottled grape juice 2 lemons 

1 pint water 2 sticks of cinnamon 

1 cup sugar 1 dozen cloves 

Heat slowly. Let cool ten minutes. Add lemon. Put in one 
lemon rind. Serve hot. (Iota Zeta). 

Grape Wine 

Boil together until easily strained through colander or bag, one 

basket Concord grapes (six or seven pounds), and three quarts 

water. Add one pound loaf sugar and boil one hour. Bottle and 

seal. This is rich enough to be diluted. Used as communion wine. 

Mary Bogue (Gamma). 

Syrup for Lemonade 

Dissolve two pounds loaf sugar in three pints cold water and 
boil twenty minutes. Dissolve one ounce citric acid in three teaspoons 
essence of lemon and a little of the cold syrup. Mix all together and 
bottle. This will keep indefinitely without being sealed. Use about 
an inch depth in water glass and fill with ice water. 

Josephine Warren Rescott (Rho Sigma). 



232 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Fruit Punch 

6 lemons 

1 cup blackberry juice or 1 box fruit crushed and strained with 

a little water 

2 cups sugar, dissolved in 1 cup water 

juice 2 grape fruit, or 3 oranges or Yi pint pineapple juice 
Add water to make two quarts, if used at the table with equal 
quantity of Shasta Water. If used plain, add enough to make four 
quarts in all. Edith Claypool (Chi). 

Fruit Punch 

6 bananas 6 quarts ice water 

6 oranges 1 pint strawberry juice 

4 lemons 1 cup freshly made tea 

4 cups sugar 1 bottle apollinaris 

4 cups water 
Boil water and sugar fifteen minutes. When cool add juice of 
fruits, four bananas, mashed, and tea. Let stand on ice until time to 
serve. Then add ice water, apollinaris and two bananas cut in 
slices. Harriet Van Bergen Deering (Lambda). 



Pineapple Punch 

Cook twenty minutes 

1 quart cold water 

2 cups sugar 

2 cups chopped pineapple 

Add one cup orange juice or tea, one cup lemon juice. Strain, 
chill and dilute to taste. Frances Bragdon (Sigma). 

Tea Punch 

3 cups English Breakfast tea 
juice 6 lemons 

mint leaves 

sugar and water to taste 

Grace Clow (Iota). 



CANDIES AND NUTS 

Candied Mint Leaves 
Draw separate mint leaves through white of egg (or better still 
brush each leaf with the egg using a paint brush), then cover with 
granulated sugar. Spread on oiled paper until dry, then keep in tin 
box. Leonora Mann (Lambda). 

Caramels 

2 cups sugar (1 pound) 

% cup glucose or Karo corn syrup (1 pound) 

3^ cup butter (3^ pound) 

2 cups cream (1 pint) 
Put sugar, glucose, butter, one-half of cream, over fire and stir 
until the mass boils thoroughly. Then gradually add the rest of the 
cream so as not to stop the boiling. Stir very often. Cook to 250° 
F., or until a firm ball between the fingers when tried in cold water. 
Then add one teaspoon vanilla and nuts, if they are to be used. 
Makes two pounds. Ethel Roach (Eta Upsilon). 

Candied Orange Peel 

Peel of one orange (do not remove any white), one cup sugar. 
Cut peel in strips and cover with cold water. Bring to boil and 
cook for five minutes. Drain. Cover with cold water and boil 
five minutes. Drain. Again cover with cold water. Boil five 
minutes and drain lightly. Add cup of sugar and cook slowly until 
syrup forms soft ball in cold water. Take from fire and stir until 
granulated. Pack in candy jar or between oiled paper in a box. 
This is a favorite dainty at tea time. 

May ElUott Bostwick (Beta Sigma). 

Chocolate Candy 
1 cup sugar 

3^ cup molasses 3^ cup milk 

]/2 cup butter 3^ cake chocolate 

Boil until brittle when dropped into cold water. Pour into pans 
to cool. Mark in squares. Anne Wright (Kappa). 

233 



234 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Drops 

In coating fondant with chocolate, add to cup of chocolate, a 
httle cocoa butter and have cup set in hot, but not boiling water. 
Drop on greased paper. Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Crystallized Grape Bunches 

Crystalhzed Malaga grapes make a very pretty addition to an 
afternoon tea table and may be used also as a centerpiece on the 
dining room table. To make this pretty confection, prepare a sugar 
syrup just as for boiled cake frosting. When the syrup "hairs" in 
long cobwebby threads, dip whole bunches of Malaga grapes (from 
which all imperfect grapes have been picked) into the syrup, let drip a 
moment and then roll in sifted granulated sugar. To keep the syrup 
from becoming too thick and forming heavy globules on the grapes, 
place pan of syrup in a pan of boiling water and work fast. Grape 
leaves added to the bowl or basket containing the grapes add to the 
effect. The grapes are prettiest in some of the tall crystal compotiers. 

Other grapes such as the Tokay and Muscatel may be crystallized 
in this way. Ruth Scott Dancer (Xi). 

Cocoanut Cream Candy 

Mix the white of one egg and half the quantity of water in a 
bowl. Add scant teaspoon vanilla. Add one pound of confectioner's 
sugar and one and one-half cups of cocoanut. Mix well. Add more 
sugar until mixture is stiff enough to spread in a pan. Allow it to 
stand for an hour, then cut into squares. 

Marguerite Halsted (Omicron). 

Divinity Loaf 

6 cups granulated sugar 2 cups corn syrup 

3 cups cream 1 tablespoon glucose 

2 pounds chopped pecans 
Mix sugar, cream and corn syrup, and boil until it makes a soft 
ball in water. Beat until it begins to cream and add nuts, then pour 
into buttered tins. When cold it should sUce like bread. Glucose is 
not absolutely necessary. Eva Webb Dodd 

(One of Delta Gamma's Founders). 



CANDIES AND NUTS 235 

Fondant 

Dissolve one cup sugar in one-half cup water, boil, then add two 
drops acetic acid, five drops glycerine, covf^r tightly and cook ten 
minutes. Then uncover and boil to the temperature of 113° C. 
Pour onto a wet platter and cool. Add flavoring. Beat into this the 
well beaten white of an egg and continue beating until stiff. Shape 
into moulds. This grows softer with standing. 

Chocolate creams may be made by moulding fondant into 
desired shape and when firm coating with the chocolate which has 
been melted over hot water. Cool on oiled paper. 

Cream mints may be made by melting fondant over hot water 
and flavoring with essence of peppermint. Drop the mixture from a 
spoon on the oiled paper. Elvira Smith (Epsilon). 

Fondant 

4 cups granulated sugar 
1 heaping tablespoon glucose 
water to cover 
Boil without stirring until it forms a soft ball in water. Turn 
into a bowl and cool. Then stir until it becomes white and stiff. 
Stir in flavoring and mould with palms into balls. Drop on greased 
paper. If the fondant is too hard to mould work in a few drops of 
water. This is the base of all cream candies. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Fruit Balls 

1 box Dromedary dates 10 cents mixed nut meats 

1 pound figs 1 cup raisins 

Put through the grinder and then form in small balls and roll in 
granulated sugar. Eva Moore (Zeta) . 

French Dainties 

2 envelopes Knox acidulated gelatine 

4 cups granulated sugar 1}^ cups boiling water 

1 cup cold water 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes. Add the boiling 
water. When dissolved add the sugar and boil twenty-five minutes. 



236 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Divide into two equal parts. When somewhat cooled add to one 
part one-half teaspoon of the pure fruit acid dissolved in one table- 
spoon water and one tablespoon lemon extract. To the other part 
add one tablespoon brandy, one-half tablespoon extract of cloves 
and color with the pink color. Pour into shallow tins that have been 
dipped in cold water. Let stand until quite firm. Cut into squares 
with a knife dipped in hot water. Roll in coarse granulated sugar and 
let stand several days to crystallize. Vary by using different flavor- 
ings and colorings. Charles B. Knox Co. 

Coated Fruit 
Melt fondant as for peppermint wafers, omitting flavoring. 
Drop well chilled grapes, strawberries or cherries in fondant and 
drop on waxed paper. These will not keep long. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda) . 

Cinnamon Fudge 

2 cups sugar 2 squares chocolate 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Stir well before putting on the stove. Boil until it thickens when 

dropped into cold water. Add teaspoon of cinnamon and set to cool. 

Beat until creamy, pour into pan and cut into squares. 

Trix Howard (Nu). 
Fudge 
Let three cups white sugar and one cup milk come to a boil and 
then add three squares of Baker's chocolate. Let this boil until it 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour onto a platter and let stand 
until cool. Stir and when it is stiff enough to handle, knead it like 
bread and mould into a loaf. Flavor with vanilla. Add nuts, if you 
wish them, when you begin to stir. 

Grace E. Conners (Lambda). 

Italian Creams 

Caramelize one cup sugar, boil together three cups sugar and one 
cup milk, and two tablespoons butter. Add caramel syrup as soon 
as latter boils. Cook to soft ball. Let cool, beat and flavor. Pour 
into buttered platter, and cut in squares. 

Cora Mae Jones (Nu). 



CANDIES AND NUTS 237 

Malmaison Candy 

1 pint confectioner's sugar 

34 pint water 

yi teaspoon cream of tartar 
Put water and sugar over a slow fire, shaking pan gently until 
sugar is dissolved. Do not stir it. Then place pan over a quick fire 
and boil mixture briskly until it floats a thread when dropped in 
cold water. Remove and cool slightly. Add the cream of tartar, 
beating the mixture until it is white and granular. Flavor to taste. 
Roll into little balls with the hands. Coat some with chocolate or 
cocoanut, and cap with nuts. The pink and white balls are pretty 
with caps of chocolate. Three layered ribbons of pink, white and 
chocolate may be cut into squares when cold. 

Lucile Shepard (Mu). 



Maple Creams 

2 cups maple sugar or syrup 
1 cup cream or milk 
1 tablespoon butter 
Boil until syrup forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from stove, flavor with vanilla and a pinch of salt. Set in a 
pan of cold water until cool and then beat until stiff. Pour onto 
ungreased plates. Nuts may be added. The consistency of this 
candy is improved by kneading after it is too stiff to beat. 

Ruth Rosholt (Lambda Nu). 



Maple Syrup Served on Ice 

Boil one quart Vermont maple syrup, without stirring, until it 
spins a thin thread from a spoon. Add one-fourth pound butter 
before removing from stove. Pour the syrup over crushed ice in 
individual saucers. It should freeze immediately and become brittle 
like taffy. To make maple sugar, stir a quantity in a dish for a few 
moments until it turns to sugar. 

Psi. 



238 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Marshnjallows 

1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine 

2 cups granulated sugar 

few grains salt and flavoring to taste 
Soak the gelatine in ten tablespoons cold water. Heat the sugar 
with ten tablespoons water until dissolved. Add gelatine to syrup 
and let stand until partially cooled. Add salt and flavoring, beat with 
a whip until too stiff, then with a large spoon stir until only soft 
enough to settle into a sheet. Dust granite pans thickly with con- 
fectioner's sugar; pour in the candy about half an inch deep and set 
in cool place until thoroughly chilled. Turn out, cut in cubes and 
roll in confectioner's sugar. This recipe will make over one hundred 
marshmallows. Nuts, chocolate, fruit juices in place of part of the 
water, or candied fruits chopped, may be added or the plain ones 
rolled in grated cocoanut before being sugared. Dates stuffed with 
this confection are delicious. Charles B. Knox Co. 

Orange Drops 

Into the juice of an orange grate some of the rind and add a 
teaspoon of white of egg. Take piece of citric acid about the size 
of a pea and dissolve in two tablespoons of hot water. When cool 
add tablespoon of this solution to the orange juice. Rest of solution 
may be used for lemon drops, made in similar way. Stir, then 
gradually add confectioner's XXXX sugar until stiff enough to 
make a soft ball. Make this mixture into small balls the size of a 
hazel nut and let stand on wax paper for twenty-four hours. 

Marguerite Halsted (Omicron). 

Opera Squares 

1 cup granulated sugar 
]4: cup milk or cream 
butter size of an egg 
Put in pan together and boil rapidly, stirring gently all the time, 
until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Flavor just 
before removing from fire. Let it cool, then beat it vmtil creamy. 
Pour out and mark in squares. 

Nina Goodnow Belcher (Xi). 



CANDIES AND NUTS 239 

Peanut Brittle 

Boil one cup sugar and one-half cup water to 170° C. Add three 
tablespoons chopped peanuts and pour at once into buttered dish. 

Elvira Smith (Epsilon). 

Peanut Brittle 

Heat one cup sugar until it melts and the liquid becomes clear. 

Remove immediately, add one cup shelled peanuts, chopped if 

desired, mixing them in thoroughly. Quickly spread upon a smooth 

tin or iron sheet" and press into shape with a knife. Cut into squares. 

Agnes Greene (Xi). 

Pinoche Loaf 
2 cups brown sugar 1 cup milk 

1 cup white sugar butter size of walnut 
Boil until a soft ball in cold water. 

Pour onto a buttered platter and let stand until lukewarm. 
Then beat with a heavy spoon, adding a few drops of vanilla. 

When it begins to harden pour onto a board quickly and knead 
into a loaf. Nuts may be added at this time. 

Peppermint Drops 

2 cups sugar 
Y2 cup water 

10 drops oil of peppermint 
Put sugar and water on stove together over a steady fire. Boil 
for five minutes. Remove from the stove, add the oil of peppermint, 
beat until a httle cloudy and drop with a teaspoon on buttered paper. 

Jean Margaret Smith (Psi). 

Pinoche Loaf 

2 cups brown sugar 13^ cups milk 

2 cups white sugar small piece butter 

Boil until it forms soft ball in water. Let stand until cool, beat 
until it is stiff enough to handle, then pom- in onto bread board and 
knead, then form into a loaf. Add nuts while stirring if you wish. 

Grace C. Nelson (Lambda Nu). 



240 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Pinoche 

4 cups brown sugar 

1 cup condensed cream 

2 cups English walnuts, slightly chopped 

Boil sugar and cream until the mixture forms a soft ball in water. 
Remove from fire and let stand in a pan of cold water for a few 
minutes. Then stir in the walnuts and beat until thick and creamy. 
Pour out on a buttered platter to harden. 

Jeannette Fox (Nu). 

Pop Corn Balls 

^ cup light brown sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar 

^ cup white sugar \^ cup butter 

Y2 cup molasses 34 teaspoon soda 

Yi cup water 
Put brown and white sugar with molasses, water and vinegar in a 

saucepan. Let it cook until it spins a thread, then add butter. 

When the hard ball stage is reached add soda and remove from fire. 

Put hot syrup over the popped corn. Wet the hands and press into 

balls. 

Julia B. Gould (Lambda Nu). 

Stuffed Prunes 

Remove stones from one pound fine French dried prunes, cover 
them with sherry and leave them in covered dish all night. In the 
morning place the meat of a walnut in each prune and roll in powdered 
sugar. These may be served with meat course or as a confection. 

EUzabeth Whiteley (Sigma). 

Sour Cream Candy 

Take equal quantities of sour cream and brown sugar, and half 
the quantity of granulated sugar — add to this a pinch of salt, and 
after stirring these ingredients thoroughly, cook until a firm ball is 
formed when dropped into cold water. Remove from the stove and 
stir until cream3^ Nuts make it more delicious and may be used if 
desired. 

Jessie McG. Treat (Upsilon). 



CANDIES AND NUTS 241 

A Suggestion 

In making fondant for candy, use milk instead of water, thereby 
obtaining a richer article. Add a few grains of salt when adding 
extract. Nellie Mary Ober (Theta). 

Tafify 
2 cups brown sugar ]/2 cup butter 

2 cups corn syrup pinch of salt 

Boil until the syrup is brittle when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from stove and flavor with vanilla. Pour on buttered plates 
and pull when cool enough to handle. Coarsely chopped nuts may 
be added after mixture is poured on plate, Brazil nuts being especially 
good. This candy poured out very thin on buttered tins and left to 
cool, without being pulled makes good butter scotch. 

Ruth Rosholt (Lambda Nu). 

Turkish Delight 

2 envelopes Knox Sparkling Gelatine 

1 large juicy orange 

1 lemon 

1 pound granulated sugar 
Soak the gelatine in two-thirds cup cold water five minutes. 
Put sugar on stove in two-thirds cup cold water, and when it comes 
to boiling point add the gelatine. Boil slowly but steadily twenty 
minutes and add the grated rind and juice of the orange, and the 
juice of the lemon (there should be one-half large cup of fruit juice). 
Wet tin with cold water and pour in the mixture to the depth of one 
inch. When firmly set immerse mould in warm water; turn out and 
cut in cubes, and roll in confectioner's sugar to which has been added 
a teaspoon of cornstarch. Vary by using different fruit juices, 
flavoring and colorings. Charles B. Knox Co. 

Creamed Taffy 
4 cups sugar ^ pound butter 

4 cups boiling water 3^ teaspoon of vinegar 

Stir ingredients until dissolved before putting on fire. Cook 
until it Clacks hard in water. Pour out very thin in order to cool 



242 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

quickly. Add flavoring, peppermint or vanilla, just before taking 
up to pull. Pull as long as possible and cut in thick short pieces. 
Put in tin boxes between layers of oiled paper until creamed. Coat 
pieces in melted bitter chocolate. 

Dorothy Taylor (Nu). 

Glazed Nuts 
One cup sugar and one teaspoon glucose, boiled until it becomes 
very light brown. Turn off heat. Drop nuts into syrup, then onto 
very cold, well greased platter. Preserved ginger or boiled, well dried 
French chestnuts may be substituted. 

Mary Louise Longbrake (Lambda). 

Salted Almonds 

1 cup almonds . }/2 cup salt 

1 pint water 2 teaspoons butter 

Blanch almonds. Heat water and salt and when boiling add nuts. 
Cook eight minutes. Drain and place in baking dish, with butter 
scattered over them. Bake, stirring frequently, until a light brown. 
All butter should be absorbed. 

E. Winifred JeweU (Chi). 

Salted Almonds 

Blanch almonds and dry in a cloth. Put a cup of olive oil in a 
small pan and heat. Fry the nuts, a few at a time, in the hot oil, 
stirring constantly, until they turn a delicate brown. Remove with a 
cake spoon and drain well. Spread them on several thicknesses of paper 
and sprinkle well with salt. Let them get entirely cold before putting 
away. Pour the oil back in the bottle. By keeping it in the ice box, 
it can be used several times for nuts. 

Jessie Ware Libby (Lambda). 

Creamed Walnuts 
Omit the cocoanut used in cocoanut cream candy. Add scant 
teaspoon vanilla. On each side of a small ball of cream put half a 
walnut meat. Press together and put aside on waxed paper to harden. 

Marguerite Halstad (Omicron). 



PRESERVES 
Jellies 

Blackberry Jelly 

Cook blackberries and crabapples separately, strain off the juice, 
then measure equal quantities of apple and blackberry, and boil 
together hard, for fifteen minutes. Measure again and add a cupful 
of sugar for each cupful of juice. Boil until the usual consistency of 
jelly. Edith Foulke (Lambda). 

Cranberry Jelly 
Cook one quart of cranberries and one cup water in a covered 
dish five or six minutes. Then with a pestle press them through a 
fine sieve. Stir in two cups sugar, and without reheating turn the 
mixture into a mould. Do not return to the fire after the sugar is 
added or the mixture will not jelly. 

Norma Rosholt Cammack (Lambda). 

Currant Jelly 

Put the currants in a preserving kettle with stems on, heat 
thoroughly, to bring out the juice; then put into a bag to drip and 
then press out all the juice; return juice to kettle, place over the fire 
and let it get boiling hot; remove from fire, add one pound of sugar 
with pint of juice, stir until dissolved; then pour into glasses, cover 
and place in a dry place. 

Louise Schriefer (Omicron). 

Spiced Currant Jelly 

8 cups strained currant juice 
8 cups sugar 
2 cups vinegar 
One tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg, 
one-eighth teaspoon pepper. Boil all together until it jells. Serve 
with game or any meat. 

Edith C. Smyth (Gamma). 

243 



244 D^LTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Grape Jelly 

Stem and mash the grapes; put into the preserving kettle and 
boil for twenty minutes. Strain and boil juice five minutes, skimming 
carefully. Warm sugar, allowing a pound to every pint of juice 
and add gradually, stirring until thoroughly melted. Pour into 
glasses and seal. 

Louise Schriefer (Omicron). 



CONSERVES AND MARMALADES 

Apricot Marmalade 
Halve and stone three and one-half pounds apricots, add three 
and one-half pounds sugar, pulp and grated rind of six oranges, the 
pulp having been put through the meat grinder. Cook until thick 
about one hour and a half or more, stirring often to prevent scorch- 
ing. When done add one-half pound blanched almonds, cut into 
strips. Put into jelly glasses and cover with paraffin. 

Constance Oilman Ames (Lambda). 

Apricot and Pineapple Jam 
Use equal parts of apricots and pineapple. Peel the pineapple 
and put through meat grinder. Measure pulp and cook with a little 
water until very soft. Seed apricots and put through meat grinder 
without peeling. Measure pulp. When the pineapple is cooked, add 
apricots and cook down, stirring constantly. When fruit seems about 
done add three-fourths as much sugar as there was fruit before 
cooking. Cook to a jam. The longer it is cooked after the sugar is 
added, the darker the jam will be. 

Jessie K. Fitzpatrick (Phi). 

Carrot Marmalade 
Boil three pounds carrots until soft. Put them through the meat 
chopper, using a large knife. Add three pounds sugar (two-thirds of 
this may be corn syrup), juice and rind of six lemons and one orange. 
One cup blanched almonds chopped fine may be added. Boil one 
hour until thick. 

Marian Brest (Lambda). 

Cherry Conserve 

Use pie cherries. To two quarts seeded cherries, add juice and 
thin yellow grated rind of four oranges, and add four pounds granu- 
lated sugar. Cook until thick and just before taking from the fire, 
add one-half pound of English walnut meats, broken. 

Leonora Mann (Lambda). 

245 



246 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Cherry Conserve 

2 quarts pitted cherries 

1 quart shredded pineapple 

3 quarts sugar 1 pound walnuts 

Mix fruit and sugar and let stand over night, then cook slowly 
until it is hke jelly. Add walnut meats, put into jars and cover with 
paraffin. 

Irma Child Browne (Beta). 



Cherry and Raspberry Conserve 

3 boxes cherries 

2 boxes raspberries 
Cook ten minutes and measure, then add one cup sugar to each 
cup of fruit. Cook until thick a little over an hour. 

Helen Plant Southall (Lambda Nu). 



Sunshme Cherries 

Boil four pounds sugar and one cup water to a syrup, add four 
pounds pitted cherries and boil four minutes. Turn out into platters, 
protect with a glass and set in the sun for three days. The cherries 
may be stored in mason jars, or may be placed in jelly glasses and 
sealed with paraffin. 

Evelyn N. Walbridge (Omega Sigma). 



Combination Marmalade 
2 grape fruit 
2 navel oranges 
2 lemons 
Shave all very fine (skin and pulp). To one pound of fruit add 
one quart of cold water. Allow it to stand over night. Second day — 
boil it until tender. Third day — weigh the mixture and make it cup 
for cup with sugar. Boil it until thick, be careful it does not stick. 
Pour into glasses and seal tight. 

Marguerite Dauson Winant (Omicron). 



CONSERVES AND MARMALADES 247 

ConservB 

1 quart fresh gooseberries 

1 quart fresh currants 

]/2 pound chopped raisins 

2 oranges; use pulp and rind of 1 
equal measure of sugar 

Boil twenty minutes. Marian Prest (Lambda). 

Four Measure Jam 
1 quart red raspberries 1 quart pitted cherries 

1 quart gooseberries equal measure of sugar 

1 quart stemmed currants 

Cook slowly about one-half hour until juice is clear and thickens 
a little in a saucer. One-haK pound pecans may be added just before 
putting into jars. Helen Hetzner (Sigma). 

Gooseberry Jam with Orange 
5 quarts gooseberries 33^ pounds sugar 

4 oranges, juice and finely chopped rind 

2 pounds raisins 

Cook about thirty minutes. Frances Firkins (Lambda). 

Spiced Gooseberries 

5 pounds fruit 1 tablespoon cinnamon 
4 pounds sugar 1 tablespoon cloves 

1 pint vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon pepper, black and red 
Stir constantly while cooking until thick. 

Helen Humphrey Lawrence (Lambda). 

Grape Fruit Marmalade 

3 large grape fruit to 

3 lemons, sliced very fine 
13^ cups water to each cup sliced fruit 
Let stand twenty-four hours. Add one pound of sugar to one 
pint of fruit. Boil three or four hours very slowly. 

Leulah Judson Hawley (Lambda). 



248 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Grape Fruit Marmalade 

1 or 2 grape fruit (2 preferably) 
1 orange 

1 lemon 

Slice the fruit in small pieces, cover with three times as much 
water as fruit and let stand twenty-four hours. 
Boil ten minutes. 

Let stand another twenty-four hours. 
On the third day add sugar to the mixture, pint for pint. 
Boil until it jellies, stirring as Uttle as possible. 
Always keep the above uncovered while standing and cooking. 
Aileen Belyea Critchell (Lambda Nu). 

Grape Fruit Marmalade 

2 large grape fruit 1 , ^ 

, , f } cut fine 

1 large lemon J 

23^ times quantity of water 
Soak seeds in cup of water over night. 
Second morning 

Add seed water and boil three-fourths hour. 
Third morning 

To one pound pulp add one pound sugar and boil one hour. 
Only boil fifteen minutes after sugar is put in. 

Marion Gaylord Kellogg (Lambda). 

Grape and Nut Conserve 

3 pints grape juice 
3 pounds sugar 

2 lemons, grated rind and juice 
6 oranges, chopped 

2 pounds raisins, chopped 
1 pound walnuts, chopped 
^ pound filberts, chopped 
Dissolve sugar in juice, add other ingredients and simmer until 
thick. Needs to cook about one hour. Serve with meats. 

Harriet Merrill Chfton (Lambda). 



CONSERVES AND MARMALADES 249 

Orange Marmalade 
2 oranges 2 lemons 

Cut fine and add eleven cups water. Let stand twenty-four 
hours uncovered. Boil two hours without sugar; then add four 
pounds sugar and cook until done. Makes just twelve glasses, 
(four pounds sugar equals about nine cups) . 

Alcetta Gilbert Clarke (Lambda). 

Oriental Jam 

7 pounds currants 2 pounds raisins, stoned 
6 pounds white sugar 2 oranges, cut fine 

Boil raisins and oranges in a little water fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Add to the currants and sugar. Boil hard from one-half to three- 
fourths of an hour. Grace C. Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Peach Conserve 
1 dozen peaches 

Y2 dozen oranges, rind grated and pulp sliced 
33^^ pounds sugar 1 pint water 

Y2 pound chopped almonds 
Boil about twenty-five minutes. 

Fanchon Hooper (Kappa). 

Ginger Pears 

8 pounds pears, sliced thin (solid green ones are best) 
3^ pound preserved ginger, sliced thin 

4 lemons, sliced with rind 
8 pounds sugar 1 pint water 

Cook one hour, or until pears are transparent. 

Edith Foulke (Lambda). 

Pie Plant Conserve 

1 cup pie plant, cut very fine 

1 orange, pulp and juice 

1 teaspoon grated yellow rind of orange 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

13^ cups sugar 



250 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Let this stand on back of stove until the sugar is dissolved, then 
boil rapidly until transparent. Add one-half cup blanched almonds 
cut into thin slices. Boil up just once and put into glasses or jars. 

Leonora Mann (Lambda). 

Pineapple and Strawberry Preserves 

Shred one pineapple, add three boxes of strawberries and cover 
with their weight in sugar. Let stand a few hours and then boil about 
half or three-quarters of an hour. Put in jelly glasses. 

Katharine Hewson Johnson (Lambda Nu) . 

Plum Conserve 

1 basket blue plums, pitted before cooking 
1 pound figs, cut fine 
1 cup English walnuts or pecans, broken 
1 quart sugar, or more if needed 
Cook until thick. Blanche M. Harris (Lambda). 

Plum Conserve 

1 basket red plums 
1 pound seeded raisins 

3 oranges and 1 lemon, run through the grinder 

4 parts of fruit to 3 of sugar 

Boil until thick. Cecelia E. Otis (Lambda). 

Plum Conserve 

1 basket of blue plums 

5 or 6 muskmelons (depends on the size) 
juice of 2 lemons 

2 cups shelled walnuts or pecans 
5 pounds sugar 

Seed the plums, cook the skins and pulp with the sugar, and if 
needed, add a little water to keep from burning. Cut the melons 
in small pieces. Add after the plums have cooked a while, especially 
if very ripe. Add the lemon juice and cook until thick. Add the nuts 
the last ten minutes Juanita Williams (Lambda) . 



CONSERVES AND MARMALADES ' 251 

Quince Honey 

Core one-half peck quinces, without paring, and put through 
meat grinder. Add sugar, pound for pound. Boil sugar in the fruit 
juice until it strings. Add fruit and cook ten minutes. This makes 
eight pints. Grace E. Telling (Chi Sigma). 

Quince Honey 
2 large quinces 
2 pounds sugar 
1 pint water 
Cook twenty minutes and put into glasses. 

Angeline Power Thatcher (Alpha Beta). 

Raspberry Conserve 

1 quart red raspberries 1 pound English walnuts 

1 quart cubed rhubarb 2 oranges, cut very thin 

1 pound seeded raisins 2 lemons, cut very thin 

1 pound sugar to every pound of fruit 
Cook one-half hour or until thick as jelly. 

Edith Pope (Rho). 

Rhubarb and Fig Conserve 

5 pounds rhubarb, cut in dice 
1 pound figs, cut in shreds 
1 lemon, cut fine 

^ weight sugar mixed in, stand over night, cook until a rich 
conserve. 

Harriet Moore Pier (Lambda). 

Strawberry Marmalade 

5 cups rhubarb, cut small, without being peeled 
1 quart strawberries 
5 cups sugar 
Use no water, start slowly and cook until thick. 

Josephine Warren Rescott (Rho Sigma). 



252. DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Strawberry and Pineapple Jam 

2 cups strawberries 

1 cup pineapple chopped fine 

3 cups sugar 

Cook from twenty to twenty-five minutes over a good fire and 
stir all the time. 

Florence Bemis Reed (Omega). 

Sun Preserved Strawberries 

Pick out perfect strawberries and ones not too ripe. Put on a 
platter. Make a rather thick syrup of sugar and water. Pour hot 
over the berries. 

Set the platter in the yard where the sun can bake the berries for 
three consecutive days. Turn the berries each day with a hat pin. 

If not thoroughly baked at end of three days put platter of berries 
in a heated oven with no fire and let them stand until done. 

Then fill jelly glasses witji the fruit and cover with paraffin. 

Cherries may be preserved in the same way. 

Gail Hamilton Luther (Lambda Nu). 

Tomato Conserve 

2 pounds tomatoes 
2 pounds sugar 
juice of 2 oranges 
juice of 2 lemons 

Raisins and nut meats to taste. Chop peel of oranges and 
lemons. Add enough water to simmer until soft. Add to the other 
ingredients and boil until sufficiently thick. 

Theodora Carpenter (Lambda). 

Tomato Jam 

4 pounds ripe tomatoes 
2 pounds brown sugar 

1 pint vinegar 2 teaspoons cloves 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 2 teaspoons salt 
Simmer two hours. 

Helen K. Loman (Xi). 



CATSUP AND PICKLES 

Mustard Beans 

Cut up one peck of butter beans and cook until tender in salted 
water. Make a dressing of two cups sugar, one-half cup mustard, 
and one-half cup flour. 

Mix in a little cold vinegar and cook in three cups hot vinegar. 
If it be too thick, thin with cold vinegar. Add one tablespoon 
celery seed and scant teaspoon turmeric. Pour dressing over the 
beans and can while hot. Jean Sharpe (Xi). 

Bordeaux Sauce 

4 quarts green tomatoes, sliced thin 
4 quarts cabbage, sHced thin 
8 small onions, sliced thin 
2 red peppers, chopped 
l}/i tablespoons turmeric 

1 tablespoon allspice, whole 

2 tablespoons celery seed 

13^ tablespoons white mustard seed 
2 cups sugar 

4 even tablespoons salt 

2 quarts vinegar 
Boil twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Truair (Rho Sigma). 

Grape Catsup 

5 pounds grapes, boiled and strained 

3 pounds sugar 1 tablespoon allspice 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 pint vinegar 

1 teaspoon ground cloves 

3^ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon black pepper 

Let it boil slowly for one hour, stirring occasionally. Bottle 
while hot. 

Mabel Bath (Omicron) . 

253 



254 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Catsup Without Spice 

2 dozen ripe tomatoes 1}^ cups sugar 

6 large onions, chopped 4 tablespoons salt 

3 red peppers, cut fine 1 ounce ginger root 

2 quarts vinegar, not too strong 
Boil down until thick as catsup. 

Katherine H. Johnson (Lambda Nu). 

Tomato Catsup 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, washed and halved 

3 or 4 red peppers, chopped, with seeds removed 
1 tablespoon whole cloves 

4 or 5 inches stick cinnamon 
4 bay leaves 

1 teaspoon ground mustard -: 

4 onions, sliced 
Bring to a boil and simmer three-quarters of an hour. Press 
through a sieve or fine colander. Return to the fire, add one pint 
vinegar, one cup sugar, foiu- tablespoons salt. Cook until thick 
enough to bottle. 

Clara King Allen (Lambda). 

Cauliflower Pickles 

Divide a large head of cauliflower into pieces, wash and boil with 
a dozen white button onions, in salted water until about half done. 
Drain the cauliflower and onions, add a dozen pickles. Cut into 
one-half inch cubes. To two quarts of vinegar, add two cups of 
sugar, two teaspoons celery seeds, and one teaspoon of nuistard 
seed. Bring the whole to a boil. Mix together three-fourths of a 
cup of flour, one-fourth pound ground mustard, one tablespoon 
turmeric powder and enough cold water to make a paste; add this 
mixture to the boiling vinegar and continue the boihng five minutes 
longer. Then add onions and cauliflower, reheat and seal. 

The safest kettles to use are the agate or porcelain lined. Wooden 
spoons are to be preferred in the mixing. Best vinegar and spices. 
A few bits of horseradish give life to the vinegar. 



CATSUP AND PICKLES 255 

Celery Relish 

10 stalks celery, cut in dice 
4 ripe cucumbers, seeded, peeled and diced 
6 green peppers, cut fine 
3 red peppers, cut fine 
Sprinkle with a cup of salt and let stand three hours. Strain and 
scald in weak vinegar ten minutes. Strain and add six tablespoons of 
white mustard seed, one-half cup of sugar, one cup olive oil, one 
pint vinegar. Bottle and keep in cool place. 

Harriet Moore (Lambda). 



Cherry Olives 

Fill a quart jar with large sweet cherries, leaving stems on, 
packing as closely as possible. Mix together one tablespoon salt, 
one cup cold vinegar and pour into the jar of cherries. Fill with cold 
water. Put on rubber and top as usual, turn upside down once or 
twice, and leave at least two weeks before using. These are not to 
be heated in any way and will keep perfectly, making a solid salty 
pickle to use with meats. 

Mrs. J. C. ElUott King (Lambda). 



Chicago Hot 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, cut up into small pieces and drained 

2 cups chopped celery 
2 cups onions 

1 cup grated horseradish (a bottle of the prepared horse- 
radish may be used) 

1 cup white mustard seed 

2 cups sugar 2 green peppers 
2 long red peppers 1 cup salt 

2 tablespoons mixed spices, cloves, cinnamon, allspice 
6 cups vinegar 
Mix cold and put in a stone jar. 

Marie Barnes Morrow (Lambda). 



256 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Chili Sauce 
12 large tomatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

4 green peppers 1 cup sugar 

4 large onions 3 cups vinegar 

Chop vegetables fine, add the seasoning and simmer until well 
cooked, from two to three hours. This makes three pints. 

Margaret F. WilUams (Omega). 

Chili Sauce 

12 large tomatoes — ripe 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 small red pepper 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
4 apples 1 teaspoon ginger 

4 onions 3 cups vinegar 

2 tablespoons salt 3 cups sugar 

Chop fine, boil two hours, excepting the apples. Chop these 
separately and add one-half hour before removing from stove. 
Put spice in when sauce is nearly done. Seal. 

Edith Steele McGregor (Pi). 

Chopped Pickles 

24 green tomatoes, chopped and drained 
2 red peppers, chopped fine 4 cups sugar 

4 green peppers 4 tablespoons salt 

8 large onions 2 tablespoons celery seed 

4 tablespoons white mustard 8 cups vinegar 

Chop peppers and onions together. Heat all ingredients together. 

Grace C. Nelson (Lambda Nu). 

Corn Relish 
2 dozen ears corn 

1 head cabbage 2 ounces mustard 
4 large onions ^ cup flour 

6 red peppers Yi cup salt 

2 quarts vinegar 1 teaspoon turmeric 

3 cups sugar 2 ounces celery seed 

Cut corn off cob, chop ingredients, cook vinegar and dry ingre- 
dients, add vegetables. Boil forty minutes. 

Florence Winterer (Lambda). 



CATSUP AND PICKLES 257 

Cucumber Pickles 

Use small cucumbers (pickle size) as near the same size as possible. 
Wash and wipe carefully. Fill mason jar half full, then put into jar, 
one tablespoon white mustard seed, one tablespoon salt, one table- 
spoon sugar (put in more sugar if you want a sweeter pickle). 
Finish filling the jar with the cucmnbers, then pour on cold vinegar 
until the jar is full and seal. Leonora Mann (Lambda). 

Cucumber Pickles 

2 quarts small cucumbers, soaked in weak salt water 24 hours 

}4 cup salt 

14 cup ground mustard or mustard seed 

^ cup granulated sugar 

1 quart pure cider vinegar 
Mix salt, sugar and mustard together, then add vinegar. Put 
cucumbers in jars, leaving about one inch at the top of jar for horse- 
radish root and grape leaves. Stir liquid thoroughly, pour over 
cucumbers and seal. Mrs. Haviland (Phi). 

Cucumber Pickles 

500 small cucumbers, washed, rinsed and dried 
3^ dozen onions, sliced 

1 dozen red peppers, long slender kind 

2 roots horseradish, scraped and cut in small pieces 

Place in jars in layers. Put in a kettle one gallon good cider 
vinegar, one cup salt, four pounds brown sugar, alum (2 cents worth) 
and two ounces mixed spices. Let come to a scald and pour over 
pickles. Cover and seal. Jane Havens (Rho). 

Sliced Cucumber Pickles 
Peel and slice three dozen cucumbers and one dozen onions. 
Salt separately and let stand over night. In mornijig drain, mix, 
pack in jars. Put in porcelain kettle two cups sugar, five cups 
vinegar, three teaspoons white mustard seed, two teaspoons ground 
white pepper, one tablespoon celery seed. Let come to boil and when 
perfectly cold, add four tablespoons horseradish. Pour over pickles 
and seal. Breta Bills (Kappa). 



258 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Different Pickles 

Take large green cucumbers about the size for slicing, cut them 
lengthwise and soak in ice water for two hours. Then pack in glass 
jars with sliced onions and pieces of celery. 

Heat one quart of vinegar, one-half cup salt and one cup sugar. 
Just bring to a boil and pour over the cucimibers in jar. Seal and 
let stand two or three days, when they are ready for use. 

Bessie Gates (Beta). 

Winter Dill Pickles 

Fill jar with layers of cucumbers, dill, whole pepper and mustard 
seed. Boil thirteen cups water, one cup salt, and one cup vinegar, 
and pour hot over pickles. Seal jars air tight. 

Mabel Sterne (Kappa). 

Sweet Dill Pickles 

6 dozen dill pickles 

13^ quarts vinegar 

9 pounds white sugar 

5 or 6 sticks cinnamon 

small handful of cloves (whole cloves) 

5 cents of alum 
SHce pickles, put them in a jar. Boil vinegar, sugar, spices. 
Pour over pickles. The next morning drain off syrup and boil 
it up again and pour over pickles. Do this every morning for four 
or five mornings or until the pickles taste right. 

Grace C. Nelson (Lambda Nu). 



Pickled Figs 

10 pounds figs, green 
Soak over night in salt and water. Rinse thoroughly and cook 
in syrup consisting of six pounds of sugar to one pint of vinegar, 
until tender and clear golden color. 

Edith C. Smyth (Gamma). 



CATSUP AND PICKLES 259 

Higdom 

1 peck green tomatoes, pared 8 large onions 

2 small cabbages 5 peppers, green and red 
Chop all, put in a jar, sprinkle with one-half cup salt, put plate 

and weight on top and let stand over night. In morning drain and 
boil with just enough vinegar to cover and three cups sugar. Put 
in a bag and cook with this : 

One stick cinnamon, one tablespoon whole allspice, one table- 
spoon whole cloves. When cooked thoroughly remove bag and add 
one tablespoon celery seed, one tablespoon each black and white 
mustard seed- 
Theodora Carpenter (Lambda) . 

Cold Meat Sauce 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, chopped 

2 small red peppers, chopped 
2 cups chopped onions 

1 cup salt 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 cups chopped celery 1 teaspoon cloves 
1 cup mustard seed 2 quarts vinegar 

Discard juice of tomatoes. Mix all ingredients thoroughly. 
Bottle in air tight jars. 

Marguerite Thompson (Sigma). 

Oil Pickles 

50 medium sized cucumbers 

1 quart small onions 

Yi small sackful salt 

V/i ounces black pepper, whole 

\Y2 ounces white mustard seed 

Yi ounce celery seed Yi pint olive oil 

Slice cucumbers thin, sprinkle with part of salt; let stand three 
hours, then drain. SUce onions and sprinkle with rest of salt, let 
stand two hours, then drain and mix with cucumbers. Add pepper, 
mustard, celery seed and oil, and mix thoroughly. Scald enough 
good vinegar to cover. Put in glass jars and seal. 

Mrs. Charles Loring (Lambda). 



260 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

Peach Mangoes 

Use the large freestone peaches, pare with silver knife as thin a 
peeling as possible. Cut in halves and remove the seed. Fill the 
cavity with maraschino cherries or with following mixture. Cut one 
cup of preserved ginger into thin slices, add one teaspoon grated 
horseradish, one mustard seed, one teaspoon celery seed and one- 
half teaspoon black pepper seed. 

Tie the halves together carefully and drop into a syrup made as 
follows : 

To one quart of vinegar add three pints of sugar, two ounces 
each of cloves and cinnamon bark (put spices in a muslin bag and 
drop in the syrup) . 

Let the fruit cook very gently in the syrup until tender, then 
lift from the syrup and place in the jars. Cook the syrup until slight- 
ly thick, then pour over the peaches and seal. 

L. R. Flom (Tau). 

Pickled Peaches 

8 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 

1 pint vinegar 
Stick two or three cloves in each peach. Add a few sticks of 
cinnamon to syrup. Cook until peaches are tender (five or ten min- 
utes). Take out on platter to cool. Then put in jars. Pour cold 
syrup over them. Let stand twenty-four hours. Then seal. For all 
fruit pickles. Grace C. Nelson (Lambda). 

Pickled Peppers and Green Tomatoes 

3 quarts green tomatoes, sliced in inch slices 

1 quart white onions, sliced 

13^2 dozen green peppers, seeded and sliced 

Yi cup salt 
Sprinkle salt over the vegetables and let stand over night. In the 
morning drain and pour over them two quarts cider vinegar, one- 
half cup sugar, one tablespoon whole cloves, one-half ounce stick 
cinnamon and a little allspice. Cook gently fifteen minutes after it 
begins to boil, leaving cover partly off. Add one ounce mustard 
seed. Put in earthen jar for a month, then add one cup sugar and 
boil for five minutes. Jessie Ware Libby (Lambda). 



CATSUP AND PICKLES 261 

India Relish 

12 large ripe tomatoes, peeled and chopped fine 
12 large tart apples, peeled and cut up 
4 onions Y2 cup salt 

1 quart vinegar 3 cups sugar 

1 teaspoon ground ginger, cinnamon, and cloves 
Yi teaspoon cayenne pepper 
Boil tomatoes, apples and onions in vinegar until tender, then add 
other ingredients. Boil until quite thick, and bottle. 

Harriet Merrill CHfton (Lambda). 

Sweet Pickles 

Take large ripe cucumbers, peel, quarter and take out pulp, cut 
about four inches long. Sprinkle with salt and a little alum and 
let stand over night. Drain thoroughly. Boil until tender in vine- 
gar to cover well, add sugar and spice to taste. After removing the 
cucumbers, boil liquor down until thick, and pour over pickles. 

Elsie Long Martin (Sigma) . 

Tomato Soy 

12 large tomatoes 

1 small red pepper (seeds removed) 
4 apples 

4 onions 

2 tablespoons salt 

1 teaspoon each cloves, ginger, and cinnamon 

2 cups vinegar 
V/i cups sugar 

Chop fine, boil all two hours, except apples. Add these one-half 
hour before removing. 

Edith C. Smyth (Gamma). 

Watermelon Pickles 

One large melon makes a gallon of pickles. Use green part of 
the melon after thin outside sjcin is removed. Cover with water in 
which is dissolved a small piece of alum. Boil three hours. Drain 
over night. Put six pieces of cinnamon, a large tablespoon of whole 



262 DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 

cloves and four pieces of mace in bags and boil in three pints of 
vinegar and seven cups of sugar for about twenty minutes. Pour 
over pickles. Let stand over night. Pour off for three mornings 
and boil, pouring back over pickles each time. The fourth morning 
boil pickles too. When done the syrup should be thick. Put in jars 
and do not seal. 

Ethel M. Tukey (Kappa). 

Watermelon Pickles 

Peel rind of watennelon, leaving trace of pink on inner edge. 
Steam until tender. Place in stone jar and cover with cold vinegar. 
Let stand twenty-four hours. Make thin syrup of sugar and vinegar. 
After twenty-four hours, drain watermelon. Pour hot syrup over 
rind. 

Let stand over night. Drain (it is better to throw away this 
first residue as the good has been absorbed by the rind) . Make a new 
syrup, adding a few drops of oil of cloves and oil of cinnamon. Repeat 
this process for seven or eight days until the syrup is thick and the 
pickles thoroughly preserved, using same syrup every day, but adding 
more sugar and spice. These pickles are light in color and perfectly 
clear. Pack in jars. 

Ina Firkins (Lambda). 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

3 teaspoons of liquid = 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons of liquid = H giU, M cup, or 1 wineglass 
1 tablespoon of liquid = 3^ ounce 

1 pint of liquid = 1 pound 

2 gills of liquid = 1 cup or 3^ i)int 
1 cup = H pint 

1 heaping quart sifted flour = 1 pound 

4 cups flour = 1 quart or 1 pound 

1 rounded tablespoon of flour = Y^ ounce 

3 cups of corn meal = 1 pound 
1 cup butter = H pound 

1 tablespoon of butter = 1 ounce 
Butter the size of an egg = 2 ounces 
Butter the size of a walnut = 1 ounce 

1 solid pint of chopped meat = 1 pound 
10 eggs, medium size = 1 pound 

2 cups of granulated sugar = 1 pound 
1 pint of brown sugar = 13 ounces 
2H cups of powdered sugar = 1 pound 



263 



INDEX 



Page 

Adirondack Salad 69 

A Favorite Pudding 192 

African Cream 182 

AUegretti Frosting 177 

Almond Short Bread 171 

Almond Pudding 182 

Ambrosia 182 

American Chop Suey 40 

Angel Cake 142 

Angel's Dessert 182 

Apples in Butter Sauce 183 

Apples Stuffed with Sausage .... 87 

Apple Sauce Cake 142 

Apples a la Tomato 183 

Apple Dumplings 183 

Apricot Marmalade 245 

Apricot Float 1 83 

Apricot Souffle 184 

Apricot and Pineapple Jam .... 245 

Asparagus Souffle 48 

Asparagus Salad 69 

A Suggestion 241 

Avis Ward's Butter Scotch Pie . 132 

Baked Custard for Two 190 

Baked Caramel Custard 190 

Baked Indian Pudding 195 

Baked Peach Dumplings 199 

Baked Peaches 199 

Baked Fudge 160 

Baked Tomatoes 60 

Baked Sweet Potatoes and 

Marshmallows 55 

Baked Beans 48 

Baked Bananas 48 

Baked Ham 31,32,33 

Baked White Fish (or Trout) ... 22 

Baked Eggs 114 

Baking Powder Biscuits 126 

Banana Salad 63 

Banana Whip 184 

Banberry Tarts 137 

Bean Salad 69 

Beef Steak Dressing 24 

Beef Loaf 23 

Beet Salad 69 

Bird's Nest Pudding 185 

Biscuit Tortoni 223 

Bishop's Bread 171 

Black Pudding 185 

Blackberry Jam Cake 143 

Blackberry Jelly 243 

Blackberry Acid 230 



Page 

Blackberry Wine 230 

Blackberry Pudding 185 

Blitz Kuchen 171 

Blueberry Pudding 185 

Blueberry Muffins 129 

Blueberry Cake 129 

Boiled Mayonnaise 85 

Boiled Salad Dressing 85, 86 

Boiled Caramel Custard 186 

Boiled Icing 177 

Boiled Raisin Cake 152 

Boiled Suet Pudding 208 

Bordeaux Sauce 253 

Boston Brown Bread 117 

Boudans 87 

Bran Gems 128 

Bran Muffins 128 

Bran Bread 116 

Brandy Sauce 217 

Brazilian Salad 63 

Bread Pudding 186 

Bread Griddle Cakes 115 

Breakfast Kommelariom Ill 

Brownies 159 

Brown Nut Bread 118 

Brown Betty 186 

Brown Bread 117 

Brown Pudding 187 

Burnt Leather Cake 143 

Burnt Sugar Frosting 177 

Butter Scotch Sauce 217 

Cabbage 49 

Cabbage Meat Loaf 42 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 85 

Candied Mint Leaves 233 

Candied Orange Peel 233 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 56 

Canned Cucumber Salad 76 

Canned Tomato Soup 13, 14 

Caramels 233 

Caramel Ice Cream 224 

Caramel Frosting 181 

Caramel Icing 177 

Caramel Charlotte 211 

Carrot Pudding 187 

Carrot Marmalade 245 

Casseroleof Rice and Meat 99 

Catsup Without Spice 254 

Cauliflower with Cheese 49, 50 

Cauliflower Pickles 254 

Cauliflower Puree 9 

Celery Relish 70 



265 



266 



DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 



Page 

Celery 50 

Celery Soup 9 

Celery Relish 255 

Charlotte Russe 212 

Cheese and Bacon; Cheese, etc. 

88,89,90 

Cheese Biscuits 126 

Cheese Straws 78 

Cheese Dates; Cheese Balls. ... 79 

Cheese Canapes 108 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches .... 108 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches . . . 107 

Cheese and Pickle Sandwiches . . 107 

Cheese Salad 76 

Cheese and Pimento Salad 70 

Cherry Conserve 245, 246 

Cherry Tapioca 208 

Cherry Pudding 187 

Cherry Torte 188 

Cherry and Cocoanut Cake 143 

Cherry Olives 255 

Chess Pie FiUing 139 

Chess Cakes 140 

Chicago Hot.. 255 

Chicken a la King 87 

Chicken Crustades 87 

Chicken Wiggle 88 

Chicken Salad 76 

Chicken and Mushroom Soup ... 9 

Chicken 27, 28, 29, 30 

Chicken Salad Sandwiches 106 

Chicken and Ham Sandwiches . . 107 

Chicken Sandwiches 107 

Chiffonade Dressing 85 

Chili Sauce 256 

Chih- Con Came 40 

Chocolate Icing 178, 179 

Chocolate Gems 128 

Chocolate Drops 234 

Chocolate Candy 233 

Chocolate Cream Pie 132 

Chocolate Sauce 217 

Chocolate Ice Cream Sauce 229 

Chocolate Rocks 161 

Chocolate Cookies 162 

Chocolate Apple Sauce Cake . . . . 142 

Chocolate Cake 144 

Chocolate Souffle 189 

Chocolate Puffs 189 

Chocolate Ginger Bread 173 

Chocolate Cream 188 

Chocolate Pudding 188, 189 

Chocolate Ice Cream 224 

Chopped Pickles. 256 

Chopped Ham Filling 105 

Cinnamon Fudge 236 

Cinnamon Toast 109 



Page 

Cinnamon Rolls 123 

Clam Chowder 8 

Clam Bouillon 7 

Clam Fritters 91 

Clear Soup or Cold Consomme . . 10 

Clear Tomato Soup 14 

Cocoa 230 

Cocoa Tea Cakes 156 

Cocoanut Cookies 162, 169 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 133 

Cocoanut Cream Filling for One 

Pie 132 

Cocoanut Cream Candy 234 

Coated Fruit 236 

Cod Fish Balls 15 

Coffee Cake 172 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 210 

Coffee Frappe 225 

Cold Short Cake 205 

Cold Tea Ginger Bread 173 

ColdMeat Sauce 43,259 

Cold Meat Pudding 95 

Combination Marmalade 246 

Comfits 175 

Conserve 247 

Consomme 10 

Corn Flake Kisses 169 

Corn Starch Cake 145 

Corn Muffins 129 

Corn Toast 91 

Corn and Tomatoes Scalloped ... 91 

Corn Relish 256 

Corn and Bacon; Corn, etc. 

50,51,52 

Corn Soup 11 

Cottage Pudding 189 

Crab a la King 91 

Crab Meat 92 

Crab Flake Cocktails 16 

Cranberry Ice 223, 225 

Cranberry Jelly 243 

Cream of Tomato or Mock 

Bisque Soup 13 

Cream Sauce for Orange Short 

Cake 199 

Cream of Almond Soup 7 

Creamed Eggs with Cheese 92 

Creamed Pineapple Pudding .... 215 

Creamy Sauce 218 

Cream Pie 133 

Creamed Walnuts 242 

Creamed Taffy 241 

Creamed Mushrooms 102 

Creamed Sardines 21 

Creamed Shrimp 21 

Creole Sauce 44 

Croquettes 41 



INDEX 



267 



Page 

Crumb Pan Cakes 110 

Crystallized Grape Bunches 234 

Cucumber Sauce 44 

Cucumber and Pineapple Salad . . 64 

Cucumber Jelly 70 

Cucumber Salad .- . . . 71 

Cucumber Pickles 257 

Currant Jelly 243 

Custard Sauce 218 

Dark Pudding 190 

Dark Secret 190 

Date Cake 145, 146 

Date Muffins 129 

Date Bars 159,162 

Date Rocks 161 

Date Pudding. 191 

Date Souffle 191 

Date Bread 118 

Delight 191 

Delight Pudding 213 

Delmonico Apple 183 

Devil's Food Cake 146, 147 

Deviled Crabs 16 

Deviled Clams 15 

Different Pickles 258 

Divinity Loaf 234 

Doughnuts 175 

Drop Cookies 163 

Dumplings That Cannot Fall ... 46 

Dutch Apple Cake 116 

Eagle Sundae. . 192 

Easiest Cookies in the World ... 163 

Easy White Cake 147 

Eggless Cake 147 

Egg Plant. .. 52 

Egg Vermicelli 114 

Eggs in Pepper Ramekins 114 

Eggs and Olives 114 

Egg in Nest 114 

Egg Biscuits 127 

Egg Sauce 185 

Egyptian Salad 71 

English Mincemeat 140 

English Monkey 92 

English Nut Cake 150 

English Grape Pudding 194 

English Plum Pudding 201, 202 

English Yorkshire Pudding ...... 46 

English Raisin Bread 121 

Fattimands Bockles 175 

Fig Pudding 192 

Fig and Date Pudding 193 

Fig Souffle 193 

Fig Sauce for Pudding 218 

Filipino Beef 24 

Filled Cookies 164 



Page 

Filled Cookies 163 

Filling for Cookies 164 

Filling and Icing 149 

Filling for Pies 139 

Filling for Mince Pies 140 

Filling 157 

Fining 163 

Filling 150 

Finnan Haddie 16 

Fish Mousse 17 

Fish and Spinach 17 

Fish Turbot 22 

Foam Sauce 219 

Fondant 235 

Foundation for Any Fruit Ice. . . 223 

Four Measure Jam 247 

Frappe 231 

French Rolls 123 

French Chocolate Cream 213 

French Dressing 84 

French Parisian Dressing 83 

French Dainties 235 

Fresh Fruit Tarts 138 

Fresh Fruit Sauce 219 

Fresh Fruit Sauce for Shortcake . 219 

Fried Summer or Cream Squash. 60 

Fritter Sauce 210 

Frosting 139, 154, 179, 181 

Frozen Gingerbread 173 

Frozen Strawberries 228 

Frozen Salad 68 

Fruit Cake 148 

Fruit Cocktail 193 

Fruit Cookies 164 

Fruit and Nut Cookies 165 

Fruit Pudding 213 

Fruit Pie 134 

Fruit Punch 232 

Fruit Balls -235 

Fruit Salad Dressing 83 

Fruit Salads 62, 63 

Fudge 236 

Garnish for Salads or Meats 78 

Gelatine Salad 64, 71 

German Coffee Bread 119 

German Torte 137 

German Tomato Mincemeat. . . . 141 

Ginger Biscuits 127 

Ginger Cakes 157 

Ginger Cookies 165 

Ginger Snaps 165 

Ginger Pears 249 

Ginger Nut Sandwiches 105 

Glazed Nuts 242 

Gnocchi of Farina Ill 

Gold Cake 149 



268 



DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 



Page 

Golden Salad Dressing 83 

Golden Sauce for Orange Pudding 198 

Gooseberry Jam with Orange .... 247 

Graham Bread 119 

Graham Pudding 193 

Graham Muffins 130 

Grandma's Sweet Biscuits 127 

Grape Ice 223 

Grape Juice 231 

Grape Wine 231 

Grape Jelly 244 

Grape Fruit Marmalade 247, 248 

Grape and Nut Conserve 248 

Grape Catsup 253 

Grape Fruit Salad 64, 65 

Green Pepper Salad 71 

Green Split Pea Soup 12 

Griddle Cakes 115 

Halibut Timbales 17 

Ham Trifle 93 

Hamburg Loaf 23 

Ham 31,32,33 

Ham and Macaroni Timbales ... 92 

Hard Sauce 187, 219 

Harvard Salad 72 

Higdom 259 

Hollandaise Sauce 44 

Honey Comb Pudding 194 

Hot Cross Buns 123 

Hot Water Sponge Cake 153 

Hungarian Goulash 41, 42 

Ice Box Cookies 166 

Ice Box Cake 194 

India Relish 261 

Italian Creams 236 

Italian Macaroni 95 

Jambolaya 93 

Japanese Roll 93 

Japanese Sandwich 105 

Jellied Fish Salad 77 

JeUied Vegetable 72 

Jelly Pie 134 

Jelly Pudding Pie 134 

Jennie's Roll Jelly Cake 149 

Kentucky Chocolate Sauce 218 

Kisses 169 

Krummel Tart 195 

Lace Curtain Cookies 166 

Lamb 33, 34 

Lemon Pie 135, 136 

Lemon Tarts 137 

Lemon Cake 149 

Lemon Filling 180 

Lemon Pudding 195 j 

Lemon Sponge Pudding 195| 

Lemon Tapioca 2091 



Page 

Lemon Sauce 219 

Lemon Ice 225 

Lemon Jello Salad 65 

Lentil Soup 11 

Light Rolls 124 

Lima Beans and Cheese 94 

Liquid Sauce for Puddings 220 

Little Pigs in Rice 96 

Lobster Cutlets 18 

Lobster a la Newberg 94 

Lunchettes 94 

Luncheon Sandwich 105 

Luncheon Rolls 124 

Macaroni 94 

Macaroni Soup 11 

Macaroni 52, 53 

Macaroon Pudding 214 

Macaroon Wafer ' 103 

Madeira Sauce 45 

Make-Shift Pie 136 

Malmaison Candy 237 

Maple Creams 237 

Maple Mousse. 196, 226 

Maple Ice Cream 225 

Maple Syrup Served on Ice 237 

Marguerites 170 

Marshmallows 238 

Marshmallow Filling 180 

Marshmallow Icing 181 

Marshmallow Pudding 196, 214 

Marshmallow Cookies 166 

Mary Anns 157 

Maryland Ice 226 

Mayonnaise 81, 82 

Meat Nests with Peas 95 

MeatSouffle 42 

Mincemeat 140 

Minced Tongue and Mushrooms . 102 

Minna Soup 11 

Mississippi Corn Bread 118 

Mocha Cakes 170 

Mocha Frosting 180 

Mocha Icing 147 

Mocha Tart 157 

Mock Birds 24 

Mock Cherry Pie 132 

Mock Crab Sandwiches 106 

Mock Oysters 54 

Mock Terrapin 43, 99 

Molasses Cookies 166 

Molasses Gingerbread 173 

Molasses Layer Cake 149 

Muffins 128 

iMulled Grape Juice 231 

JMushroom Sauce 45 

jMushroom Soup 12 



INDEX 



269 



Page 

Muskmelon Salad 65 

Mustard Beans 253 

My Mother's Graham Gems ... 128 

Nesselrode Pudding 215 

Noodles 12 

Normandy Salad 72 

Nothings 174 

Nun Cake 196 

Nut Bars 159 

Nut Bread 120 

Nut Brown Tea Cakes 157 

Nut Cookies 167 

Nut Macaroons 169 . 

Nut Roast 96 

Oat Cakes 115 

Oatmeal Bread 121 

Oatmeal Cookies 167 

Oatmeal Hermits 160 

Oil Pickles 259 

Oil Salad Dressing 80 

Old Fashioned Raisin Bread .... 122 

Omelet 112 

Omelet Souffle 197 

One Egg Cake 150 

Onion Pie 96 

Opera Squares '. . . . 238 

Orange Pie 136 

Orange Cake 150, 151 

Orange Delicious 197 

Orange Float 197 

Orange Drops 238 

Orange Pudding 197, 198 

Orange Puffs 198 

Orange Ice 223 

Orange Marmalade > . . . 249 

Orange Sauce 220 

Orange Short Cake 199 

Orange Sponge Cake 151 

Oriental Jam 249 

Oysters 18, 19 

Oyster Soup 12 

Pan Cakes 110 

Parker House Corn Rolls 124 

Pastry 131 

Peach Charlotte Russe 227 

Peach Delight 200 

Peach Conserve 249 

Peach Pie 136 

Peach Mangoes 260 

Peach Ice 223 

Peach Mousse 227 

Peach Salad 66 

Peanut Brittle 239 

Peanut Butter Bread 121 

Peanut Macaroons 170 

Peanut Mousse 226 

Pear Salad 66 



Page 

Pear Toast 200 

Pecan Cheese Wafers 107 

Pecan Frosting 181 

Penny Rolls 125 

Peppers Baked 55 

Peppermint Drops 239 

Peppermint Ice Cream 227 

Perfection Salad 72 

Petchen 200 

Peter Pans 158 

Pettijohn's Bread 121 

Pickled Figs 258 

Pickled Peaches 260 

Pickled Peppers and Green To- 
matoes 260 

Pie Crust 131 

Pie Plant Conserve 249 

Pimento Sandwiches 105 

Pineapple Bavarian 210 

Pineapple Cider 230 

Pineapple Mousse 227 

Pineapple Cookies 167 

Pineapple Punch 232 

Pineapple Sponge 207 

Pineapple and Strawberry Pre- 
serves 250 

Pineapple Tomato 66, 67 

Pinoche 240 

Pinoche Loaf 239 

Plum Conserve 250 

Plum Pudding 201 

Poinsettia Salad 73 

Pop Corn Balls 240 

Pop Overs 130 

Pork 34,35 

Potato Boats 55 

Potato Cake 152 

Potato Doughnuts 175 

Potato Flour Muffins 130 

Potatoes O'Brien au Grautin, etc. 

56, 57, 58 

Potato Patty Shells 96 

Potato Rolls 125 

Potato Salad 73 

Prune Salad 67 

Prune Whip 203 

Pudding Sauce . 220 

Pumpkin Pie 136, 137, 138 

Quick Cake 152 

Quince Honey 251 

Quick Puff Pudding 202 

Quick Waffles 110 

Rabbit 35 

Raisin Cookies, Children's De- 
light 168 

Raisin Cream Pie 138 

Raisin Puffs 202 



270 



DELTA GAMMA COOK BOOK 



Page 

Raspberry Conserve 251 

Raspberry Loaf 203 

Raspberry Sauce 220 

Rhubarb and Fig Conserve 251 

Rhubarb Pie 138 

Ribbon Cake 152 

Rice Cakes, etc 58, 59 

Rice Custard Pudding 204 

Rice and Dates 204 

Rice Griddle Cakes 115 

Rice and Peach Pudding 204 

Rice Souffle..... 215 

Rocks 160 

Rolled Bread 108 

Rolled Flank Steak 25 

Round Steak and Bacon 24 

Royal Bouillon 7 

Russian Pilaff 110 

Russian Steak 25 

Sabayon Sauce 221 

Salad a la Normandy 66 

Salad Russe 74 

Sally Lunn 205 

Salmon 20,21 

Salmon Newberg 97 

Salmon Relish Salad 77 

Salmon Toulette 97 

Salted Almonds 242 

Sandwich Filling 103, 104 

Sardine Loaf 21 

Sauces 45, 112, 189, 201, 207, 214 

Sauce for Any Steamed Pudding . 221 

Scalloped Meat 97 

Schaum Torte 209 

Scotch Scones for Tea 174 

Scotch Short Bread 122, 172 

Shredded Wheat Biscuits with 

Strawberries 210 

Shredded Wheat Biscuits for 

Breakfast 110 

Short Cake 205 

Shredded Wheat Cookies 168 

Shrimp a la Newberg 97 

SimpUfied Rarebit 98 

Shrimp Wiggle 98 

Snickerdoodle 122 

Snow Balls 181,206 

Snow Pudding 206, 215 

Soft Sauce 221 

Sour Cream Candy 240 

Sour Cream Cookies 168 

Sour Cream Drop Cakes ....... 158 

Sour Cream Pie 134 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 80 

Southern Corn Meal Spoon 

Bread 122 



Page 

Spaghetti 53, 54, 98 

Sunshine Cherries 246 

Spanish Chowder 98 

Spanish Cream 216 

Spanish Frijolas 99 

Spanish Omelet Ill 

Spanish Pepper Salad 74 

Spanish Steak 26 

Spice Cakes 154, 158 

Spiced Currant Jelly 243 

Spiced Fried Cakes 176 

Spiced Gooseberries 247 

Sponge Cakes 153 

Sponge Pudding 206 

Steak en Casserole 25 

Steamed Pudding 207 

Sterling Sauce 221 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream. . . . 211 

Strawberry Ice Cream 228 

Strawberry Ice 223 

Strawberry and Pineapple Jam. . 252 

Strawberry Nut Sandwiches .... 104 

Strawberry Sauce 221 

Strawberry Sherbet 228 

Strawberry Sponge 216 

Strawberry Steamed Pudding . . . 207 

Stuffed Apples 184 

Stuffed Cabbage 26 

Stuffed Eggs for Picnics 113 

Stuffed Eggs with Tomato Sauce 113 

Stuffed Prunes 240 

Suet Pudding . 208 

Sugar Cookies 168 

Sun Preserved Strawberries 252 

Sunshine Cake 155 

Sweetbreads 36 

Sweet Dill Pickles. . 258 

Sweet Pickles 261 

Swedish Meat Balls 40 

Swiss Eggs 113 

Swiss Pie 139 

Swiss Steak 26 

Syrup for Lemonade 231 

Taffy 241 

Tapioca Custard 208 

Tapioca and Pineapple 209 

Tapioca Pudding 209 

TamalePie 26 

Tarragon Vinegar Dressing 80 

Tartare Sauce 45 

Tea Biscuits 127 

Tea Punch 232 

Tea Rolls 125 

Thousand Island Dressing 79, 80 

Timbales 131 

Toasted Cheese Sandwiches 108 



INDEX 



271 



Page 

Toasted Egg with Cheese 113 

Toasted Sandwiches 104 

Tomato Bisque H3 

Tomato Catsup 254 

Tomato Conserve 252 

Tomatoes and Eggs 113 

Tomato Golden Buck 100 

Tomato Jam 252 

Tomato Jelly Salad 75 

Tomato Pineapple Salad 67 

Tomato Rarebit 100 

Tomato on Toast 100 

Tomato Sauce 112 

Tomato Sauce for Meats or 

Steamed Rice 45 

Tomato Soy 261 

Tomatoes en Surprise 74 

Tongue 36, 37 

Transparent Apples 184 

Transparent Pie 139 

Tvma Fish Chowder or "Goulash' ' 22 

Tuna Salad 77 

Turkey 37 

Turkish Delight 241 

Turkish Rolls (Without Meat) . . 61 

Tutti Frutti Pudding 216 

Veal 37,38,39,40 



Page 

Veal Salad 77,78 

Veal Souffle 100 

Vegetable Gelatine 75 

Vegetable Pudding 209 

Vegetable Soup 14 

Vienna Stew 43 

Vienna Stewed Carrots 49 

Wafers to Serve with Tea 108 

Waffles Ill 

Watermelon Pickles 261, 262 

WeUesley Frosting 155 

Wellesley Cake 155 

Welsh Rarebit 101 

Western Egg Sandwiches 106 

What to Serve with Meat 46, 47 

Wheat Fritters 210 

Whipped Cream Punch' 201 

Whipped Cream Sauce 222 

White Cake 156 

White Cherry Salad 64 

White Salad 68 

Whole Meat Muffins 130 

Winter Dill Pickles 258 

Yankee Doodle 101 

Yankee Pie 200 

Zweiback 126 



■•**^'' 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 486 997 7 



O 



