
Class IH-X-^S-S^ 

GBpightN? 

COnRIGHr DEPOSIT. 



Hospitality 

BY 

Mary M. Wright 

Author of 

"Candy Making at Home" 

"Preserving and Pickling" 

"Salads and Sandwiches" 

"Dainty Desserts'* 



RECIPES AND ENTER- 
TAINMENT HINTS FOR 
ALL OCCASIONS 



Philadelphia 

The Penn Publishing Company 

1922 






COPYRIGHT 
1922 BY 
THE PENN 
PUBLISHING 
COMPANY 




Hospitality 



Made in the U. S. A. 



JUL 25 72 

©CI.A677622 



Contents 

I. Hospitality for Holidays 13 

Table Decorations for New Year's Day. 15 

New Year Bell Luncheons 17 

Pimiento Canapes 18 

Bell-shaped Salmon Croquettes 19 

Potato Salad Garnished with Beet 

Bells 19 

Cherry Gelatin in Bell-shape 20 

A Date Luncheon for New Year's Day. 21 

Date and Grapefruit Cup 21 

Sauted Dates with Cream Cheese 22 

Date Salad 22 

Date Sandwiches 22 

Menus for the New Year's Day Dinner . 23 

Fruit Salad 24 

Confection Pie 24 

Cranberry Sponge with Marshmallow 

Border 25 

Steamed Fig Pudding 26 

Frozen Plum Pudding with Ginger 

Sherbet 27 

Table Decorations for Washington 's 

Birthday 28 

3 



• 



CONTENTS 

Menus for Washington's Birthday 

Luncheons 29 

Cream of Carrot Soup 30 

Deviled Lobster 31 

Tomato Bouillon 31 

Cherry Sherbet 32 

Table Decorations for Fourth of July 

Tables 33 

Children 's Tables for the Fourth of July 34 

Menus and Recipes for the Fourth of 

July 35 

Iced Cherries 36 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 36 

Raspberry Sherbet 37 

Tomato Appetizer 38 

Cherry Salad 38 

Red Watermelon with White Ice- 

Cream 39 

Chicken in Sweet Bell Peppers 39 

Table Decorations for the Thanksgiving 

Dinner 40 

Thanksgiving Tables for the Children . . 42 

Menus for the Thanksgiving Dinner 

with Recipes 44 

Oyster Stuffing for Turkey 46 

Stuffed Onions 46 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 47 

Cranberry Sherbet 47 

Cream of Celery Soup 48 

Caramel-Pumpkin Pie 49 

Plum Pudding 49 



CONTENTS 6 

Table Decorations for Christmas 50 

Christmas Decorations for Children's 

Tables 54 

Menus for the Christmas Dinner 56 

Sweet Potato Puff 57 

Orange Bavarian Pudding 57 

Baked Apples and Cranberries 58 

Mushroom Sauce for Roast Duck 58 

Pea Patties 59 

Steamed Date Pudding 59 

II. Hospitality for Special Days 61 

Table Decorations for St. Valentine's 

Day 63 

Menus and Recipes for St. Valentine 

Luncheons 65 

Cheese and Nut Hearts 66 

Cheese Sandwiches in Heart-shape ... 66 

Lobster Hearts 67 

Heart Tarts 68 

Angel Hearts 68 

Heart's Delight 69 

Table Decorations for St. Patrick's Day 69 

Menus and Re<?ipes for St. Patrick's Day 71 

Cream of Spinach Soup 71 

Pistachio Nut Tarts or Wafers 72 

Baked Asparagus 73 

Celery Rolls 74 

Erin Loaf Cake 74 

Blarney Stones 75 



CONTENTS 

Cream of Pea Soup 76 

Spinach Sauce for Baked Fish 76 

Mint Ice 77 

Pistachio Ice-cream 78 

Table Decorations for Eastertide 78 

Floral Decorations for the Easter Table 78 

Easter Egg-shell Decorations 81 

Children's Easter Tables 83 

Easter Menus for Children 84 

Potato Chicks 85 

Easter Egg Dessert 86 

Easter Dinner Menus 87 

Grapefruit Salad 88 

Pineapple-Orange Sherbet 88 

Chocolate Custard 89 

Potato Croquettes 89 

E scalloped Eggs and Celery 90 

Salmon Loaf with Tomato Sauce. ... 91 

Mint-glazed Carrots 91 

Potato Rissolees 92 

Sponge-cake Eggs 92 

Easter Cake 93 

Table Decorations for May Day 93 

Decorations for a May-basket Luncheon 95 
Menus for May Day Luncheons, also 

Recipes 97 

Marguerites 97 

Marguerite Salad 98 

Cream Cheese Parsley Balls 98 

Pimiento Sandwiches 99 

Sweetbreads with Pink Sauce 99 



CONTENTS 7 

Table Decorations for Hallowe'en 100 

Apple Luncheon 101 

Menus and Recipes for Hallowe'en 

Luncheons 102 

Cream of Chestnut Soup 103 

Oyster Patties 104 

Stufeed Baked Apples 104 

Waldorf Salad 105 

Hallowe'en Supper Menus 105 

III. Company Luncheons in Variety for All 

Seasons 107 

Menus and Recipes for Yellow and 

White Color Scheme 110 

Grapefruit Cup Ill 

Daisy Canapes 112 

Orange Rollovers 113 

Spring Delight 113 

Pink and White Luncheon 114 

Cottage Cheese Salad 115 

Strawberry Gelatin Pudding 116 

Strawberry Sandwiches 116 

Red and Green Luncheon 117 

Tomato Salad 117 

White Menu to be Used with a Blue and 

White Color Scheme 118 

A Japanese Luncheon 119 

Menu and Recipes for Japanese Lunch- 
eon 119 

O'cha Ice-cream 122 



CONTENTS 

Sembei 122 

Jambalaya of Fowl and Rice 123 

Okonomara Salad 123 

A Snowball Luncheon 124 

Snowball Hoppy 125 

Snowball Croquettes 125 

Snowball Salad 126 

A Fern Luncheon 126 

Paper, Porch and Lawn Parties 127 

Effective Table Decorations for Autumn 

Luncheons 130 

Red and Brown Table Scheme 131 

Menu and Recipes for Red and Brown 

Scheme 131 

Apple Appetizer 134 

Ham Souffle 134 

Date Fluff 135 

Brown Bread Canapes 136 

Chestnut Croquettes 136 

Yellow and Green Table Scheme for 

Luncheon 137 

A Grape Luncheon 138 

A Maple Leaf Luncheon 140 

Popcorn Luncheon 141 

Popcorn Canapes 144 

Popcorn Marguerites 144 

Popcorn Dainty 145 

Table Decorations for Corn Luncheons. 145 

Menus and Recipes for Corn Luncheons 148 

Corn Oysters 149 

Corn in Tomato Cups 149 



CONTENTS 9 

Corn-starch Dessert 150 

Corn Frittei^ 150 

Baked Corn with Chicken 151 

Corn Salad 151 

Birthday Flower Luncheon 152 

Pansy Luncheon 152 

Red Rambler Rose Luncheon 153 

Trimmings for Birthday Cakes 154 

IV. Catering for Weddings and Other Bridal 

Affairs 157 

Decorations for Wedding Tables 159 

Menus for Wedding Breakfasts or 

Luncheons 164 

Chicken Breast in Yellow Aspic 168 

Potato Cheese Balls 168 

Orange-Mint Relish 169 

Cherry Sauce 169 

Strawberry Whip or Mousse 170 

Rose Potatoes 170 

Rose Sherbet 171 

Grape-Juice Cocktail 171 

Grape- Juice Charlotte 172 

Surprise Croquettes 172 

Salmon in Aspic 172 

Marshmallow Parfait 173 

Potato Souffle 173 

Olive Sauce for Fish 174 

Wedding Cakes. 174 

Announcement Luncheons 176 



10 CONTENTS 

The Secret in the Trunk 177 

A Bouquet Announcement Table 178 

Cherry and Strawberry Shower Lunch- 
eon 179 

A Clover Shower Luncheon 182 

A Rose Shower Luncheon 183 

A Basket Shower 186 

A Springtime Luncheon for a Bride- 
elect , 188 

Menus and Recipes for Announcement 

and Shower Luncheons 190 

Scalloped Scallops and Mushrooms. . . 191 

Baked Stuffed Cucumbers 192 

Table Decorations for Wedding Anni- 
versaries 193 

The Paper Wedding 193 

Menus and Recipes for Paper Wedding 195 
Table Decorations for Cotton Wedding. 196 

Menus for Cotton Wedding 197 

Table Decoration for Wooden Wedding 198 
Menu and Recipes for Wooden Wedding 199 
Chocolate Pudding with Maple Sauce 200 
Table Decoration for the Tin Wedding. 201 
Menus and Recipes for the Tin Wedding 203 

Meringue Mousse 204 

Prune Souffle 204 

Cheese Souffle 205 

Cream of Mushroom Soup 206 

Table Decorations for the Crystal Wed- 
ding 206 

Menus and Recipes for Crystal Wedding 208 



CONTENTS 11 

Crystal Dainty 209 

Crystallized Fruit Dessert 209 

Cucumber Jelly for Fish 210 

Table Decorations for the China Wed- 
ding 211 

Menus and Recipes for the China Wed- 
ding 212 

Lobster Newburg 213 

Salmon Loaf with Tomato Sauce 213 

Tomato Sauce 214 

Table Decorations for the Silver Anni- 
versary 214 

Menus for the Silver Wedding Anni- 
versary 216 

Table Decorations for the Pearl and 

Ruby Wedding Anniversaries 217 

Menus and Recipes for the Pearl Wed- 
ding 218 

Sweetbread Patties 219 

Creamed Scallops with Mushrooms . . . 220 
Table Decorations for the Golden Wed- 
ding Anniversary 220 

Menus and Recipes for the Golden Wed- 
ding Anniversary 221 

Deviled Eggs 222 

Orange Bavarian Cream 223 



Hospitality 
I 

HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 



CHAPTER I 

HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 

Table Decorations for New Year's Day 
Very effective decorations for the New 
Year's tables may be charmingly carried out 
with red, silver and gold bells. If a red 
scheme is carried out use as a centerpiece a red 
floral bell, or a bell of holly with a clapper of 
mistletoe. This bell should be suspended from 
the light fixtures over the table, or in case you 
do not have overhead lights they may be sus- 
pended from a tripod made of three sticks 
covered with green crepe paper and ever- 
green. Red bell-shaped bonbons may be at 
each plate. The place-cards may be decorated 
with red bells either cut out of crepe paper or 
post-cards, and appliqued onto plain cards, or 
those with the edges touched up with a little 
red. A novel effect may be obtained by sus- 
pending red crepe bells over the table by 
15 



16 HOSPITALITY 

means of fine black thread. They may be sus- 
pended directly from the ceiling, or from 
cords stretched from one wall to the other, sev- 
eral inches below the ceiling. 

A pretty way in which to decorate a 'New 
Year's table with either gold or silver bells is 
to suspend a shower of them over the table, 
using narrow ribbon, or silver or gold tinsel to 
suspend by. If silver bells are used have for 
a centerpiece a silver bowl, or silvered basket 
filled with pink, white, or blue blossoms. If 
gilt bells are used then have a pale blue basket 
filled with yellow blossoms and delicate ferns, 
or a yellow basket with white blossoms. If 
candles are used it would be nice to have the 
shades trimmed with a fringe of tiny bells. 
For place-cards decorate plain gilt-edged cards 
with gilt bells, which may be painted or ap- 
pliqued on, or a tiny bell could be tied in one 
corner of the card, using gilt or tinsel cord or 
very narrow white ribbon to tie it on with. If 
a silver bell scheme is used silver-edged cards 
decorated with silver bells should be used. 

Another effective bell scheme is to cover a 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS It 

hoop with silver or gilt paper, according to the 
kind of bells to be used. Fasten tiny bells all 
around the hoop by means of silver or gilt 
cord. If you wish something more elaborate 
have streamers of white or yellow ribbons, 
studded with tiny silver or gilt bells, to reach 
from the hoop to the plates where they may be 
attached to bell-shaped bonbon boxes. 

Another unique centerpiece for a bell 
luncheon is a little belfry formed of small blos- 
soms and vines arranged over a pasteboard 
foundation. Suspend from the belfry a tiny 
gilt or silver bell, and have a silver or gilt cord 
attached to the hand of the doll dressed to 
represent Father Time. 

Kew Year Bell Luncheons 

(With Red Bells) 

Pimiento Canapes (Bell-shaped) 

Bell-shaped Salmon Croquettes Bell-shaped Sandwiches 

Potato Salad (Garnished with Beet Bells) 
Cherry Gelatin (Molded in bell-shape) 

Loaf Cake (Decorated with red bells made of 

Candied Cherries) 
Bonbons in Red Paper Bells 



18 HOSPITALITY 

(With Silver Bells) 

Clear Bouillon 

Creamed Chicken in Timbale Bells 

Bell-shaped Potato Croquettes Bell-shaped Sandwiches 

Fruit Salad (Garnished with Candied Pineapple Bells) 

Ice-Cream Bells Macaroon Bells- 

Angel Food Cake (Decorated with Silver Candy Bells 

(With Gold Bells) 

Orange Fruit Cup 

Fish in Lemon Bells Carrot Bells (Creamed) 

Bell Corn Muffins Golden Sirup 

Fruit Salad (Garnished with Banana Bells) 

Ice-Cream Bells Cup Cakes 

Bell Bonbons 



PiMiENTo Canapes 

Pimientoes Bread 

Cream cheese Tomato catsup 

Slice the bread thin, and cut into shape of 
bells and toast a delicate brown in the oven. 
Butter the bread and cover with a mixture of 
cream cheese and catsup, seasoned with salt 
and paprika. Place on top bells cut out of the 
pimientoes — just made to fit the toasted bells. 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 19 

Bell-shaped Salmon Croquettes 

1 can red salmon 1 cupful thick tomato sauce 

Salt and paprika Bread-crumbs 

Egg 

Empty tlie salmon from the can and remove 
all skin and bones, and flake. Add the tomato 
sauce made by blending together in a double 
boiler two tablespoonfuls each of butter and 
flour, then stirring in one cupful of tomato 
puree. Season with salt and paprika. Set 
aside to cool, then form into shape of bells, 
roll in egg, and then in bread-crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. Serve hot in a bed of parsley. 



Potato Salad Garnished with Beet Bells 

Cold boiled beets Hard-boiled eggs 

1 onion Celery 

Mayonnaise or boiled Pickled beets 
dressing 

Peel and cut the potatoes up in cubes. To 
a quart of the potatoes, add one onion chopped 
fine, one cupful chopped celery and three hard- 



20 HOSPITALITY 

boiled eggs chopped fine. Mix thorouglily, 
seasoning with salt, pepper and salad dressing. 
Line a salad dish with lettuce leaves and place 
the salad in this, heaping up in mound shape. 
Cut little bells out of pickled beets and garnish 
the salad with these. 



Cherry Gelatin in Bell-shapb 

1 tablespoonful gelatin 1 pint cherry juice 

1 cupful canned cherries Yi cupful cold water 
^ cupful sugar Candied cherries 

Place the sugar in the cherry juice ( use red 
cherries ) and bring to the boil ; then stir in the 
gelatin that has been dissolved in the cold 
water. Add the cherries after they have been 
stoned. Pour into bell molds, or if you cannot 
obtain these use wine glasses or glasses that 
slope toward a point, or egg-shells with open- 
ing made at one end, may be used. Set on ice 
to chill and when ready to serve turn out. 
Use candied cherries for handles and also for 
the clappers of the bells. 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 21 
A Date Luncheon 

Date and Grapefruit Cup 

Date Sandwiches Olives 

Sauted Dates with Cream Cheese 

Chicken Croquettes Date Salad 

Ice-Cream Maple Date Cake 

Have this menu printed on tlie backs of tiny 
calendars, and place one at each plate. If you 
have a small palm tree tie on it bunches of 
stuffed dates, and use for a centerpiece. 

At each plate have fancy baskets or boxes 
filled with stuffed dates. Baskets in dull red 
would add a bit of color to the table that 
would be effective. Have the date of the year 
on the place-cards, and if liked they may be 
decorated with tiny calendars. 

Date and Grapefruit Cup 

1 pound best dates 3 grapefruits 

2 oranges Sirup 

Stone and cut the dates into bits. Cut the 
grapefruits in halves and remove the pulp. 
Break up into bits and shred the orange pulp. 
Mix with the dates. Make a sirup with pine- 
apple and orange juice, and boil to the thick- 



22 HOSPITALITY 

ness of honey. Pour over tlie fruit. CMU on 
ice. Serve in grapefruit cups made out of 
halved rinds. 

Saut:6d Dates with Cream Cheese 
Saute the dates, after the stones have been 
removed, in hot butter, then when cool stuff 
with cream cheese — these are something new 
and greatly relished. 

Date Salad 

3 cupfuls chopped tart 1 cupful stoned dates 

apples Sirup dressing 

1 cupful nut-meats 

Cut the dates up into bits, and mix with the 
apple and the chopped nut-meats. Blend 
thoroughly together ; then dress with either a 
sirup dressing made with fruit juice and 
sugar, or with a mayonnaise dressing. 

Date Sandwiches 

1 cupful chopped dates ^ cupful chopped figs 

yz cupful chopped nut- Thick cream 

meats 

Mix the dates, nut-meats and figs together, 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 23 

and moisten with enough thick cream to make 
of the right consistency to spread. Flavor 
with a teaspoonful of vanilla. This filling is 
good between thin slices of brown bread. 



THE NEW YEAR DINNER 

Menu No. i 

Oyster Soup 

Roast Turkey with Celery Stuffing Frozen Cranberries 

Browned Potatoes Corn Souffle 

Peas in Carrot or Turnip Cups 

Fruit Salad 

Confection Pie Cream Cheese Balls 

Cranberry Sponge with Marshmallow Border 

Stuffed Fruits Nuts Bonbons 

Coffee 

Menu No. 2 

Cream of Tomato Soup Canapes 

Roast Chicken with Dressing or Cooked en Casserole 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Browned Sweet Potatoes Beet Pickles 

Cranberry Salad in Cranberry Rings 

Steamed Fruit Pudding or. Frozen Plum Pudding 

Ginger Sherbet 

Crystallized Popcorn Bonbons 



24 HOSPITALITY 

Fruit Salad 

2 large tart apples J4 cup chopped nut-meats 

1 pimiento Custard with whipped cream 

1 cup finely chopped celery 1 cup white grapes 

Candied cherries or }^ cup red cherries 
cranberries 

Peel and cut up the apple into cubes, add the 
grapes, halved and seeded, the canned cherries 
drained of all juice, the chopped nut-meats 
and the celery. Mix lightly together. 
Sprinkle very lightly with salt, sugar and a 
few drops of lemon-juice, then dress with a 
boiled-custard dressing in which a half -cup of 
whipped cream has been stirred. Garnish with 
candied cherries. 



Confection Pie 

3 lemons 4 eggs 

1 quart milk 1 cup sugar 

1 cup stale sponge or other 1 tablespoon corn-starch 

yellow cake-crumbs Candied sweetmeats 

Pare the outer rind of the lemons and boil in 
little water until tender, then pound to a 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 25 

paste and mix with, the cake-crumbs ; stir in the 
boiling milk. Beat the yolks of the eggs light, 
with the sugar, then add to them the juice of 
the lemons and blend the corn-starch in them 
also. Place the milk in a double boiler and 
stir in the egg-mixture, and stir until thick 
and smooth; then stir in the stifly whipped 
egg-whites. Pour into two baked pie-shells, 
and strew the top thickly with candied sweet- 
meats, such as thinly sliced citron, orange 
rind, candied pineapple and cherries. 



Cranberry Sponge with Marshmallow 
Border 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 
1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

3 teaspoons baking- 1 teaspoon vanilla 
powder Marshmallows 

Cranberry jelly 

Make a sponge with the beaten eggs, milk, 
flour and sugar and baking-powder. Bake in 
one large round pan. Remove from the oven 
when done and ice with a white icing; while 



26 HOSPITALITY 

the cake and icing are still hot place the 
marshmallows around the edge of the sponge- 
cake. Fill the center of cake with a thick cran- 
berry jelly. Press a candied cranberry or 
cherry into the center of each marshmallow if 
you wish to have the cake look more Christ- 
massy. Serve with whipped cream. 



Steamed Fig Pudding 

yz cup shredded suet Flour 

1 cup bread-crumbs 1 cup shredded figs 

1 cup light-brown sugar 2 cups milk 

1 cup chopped nut-meats 1 orange 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking-powder 

Flour the figs and the nut-meats, then add to 
the suet. Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk, 
then add to them the beaten egg-yolks and the 
grated rind and the juice of the orange. Sift 
the baking-powder with one-half cup flour and 
stir in. If the dough is too soft add a little 
more flour. Stir the ingredients well together, 
lastly add the stiffly beaten egg-whites. Fill 
into buttered molds about two-thirds full and 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 27 

steam for two or three hours. Serve with a 
fruit or hard sauce. 



Frozen Plum Pudding 

2 quarts chocolate ice- J^ glass strawberry 

cream preserves 

y2 glass orange marmalade 2 tablespoons shaved citron 

1 tablespoon candied Ginger sherbet 

cherries % cup shredded figs 
^^ cup cooked raisins 

Stir the preserved and candied fruits into 
the chocolate ice-cream, then pack in ice and 
salt for two or three hours, so that the fruit 
flavors may be thoroughly blended with the 
cream. 

To make the ginger sherbet, use a founda- 
tion as for lemon sherbet, then when partly 
frozen, stir in a large tablespoonful of Jamaica 
ginger and three tablespoons of sirup from 
preserved ginger. Stir in one cup of finely 
chopped nuts and the whipped whites of two 
eggs. Complete freezing. Place a layer of the 
frozen plum pudding in the bottom of sherbet 
glasses or other individual service dishes and 



28 HOSPITALITY 

top off with the ginger sherbet. Any dainty 
little cakes may be served with this dessert. 



Table Decorations for Washington's 

Birthday 
The decorations for Washington's birthday 
are nice carried out in the colonial blue and 
buff. If at all possible use the old-fashioned 
dark blue china on the table ; but if you do not 
have this gold-banded china will do, or the 
imitation willowware. The question of table 
covering is easily and cheaply settled by pur- 
chasing the blue and white Japanese toweling 
with its characteristic designs. Have one run- 
ner of this toweling extending lengthwise of 
the table, and two or three strips running 
crossways ; or if the table is square or round 
just have two strips crossing in the center of 
the table. Yellow roses or tulips would make 
an effective centerpiece if arranged in a deep 
blue bowl or basket. Yellow fruits may also 
be appropriately used as a centerpiece. Use a 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 29 

pretty blue basket, and heap up with, yellow 
bananas and grapefruit. 

Decorate the place-cards with golden eagles. 
Blue boxes or fancy little baskets filled with 
yellow bonbons will add to the effect. If can- 
dles are used have the old-fashioned gold or 
brass candlesticks, with dark blue shades; if 
liked the shades may be decorated with golden 
eagles. 



Menus for Washington's Birthday 
Luncheons 

Menu No. i 

Cream of Carrot Soup in Blue Cups 

Chicken Salad Cherry-Almond Sandwiches 

Cream Cheese Cannon Balls 

Individual Custards in Blue Cups Sponge Cake 

Yellow Bonbons 

Menu No. 2 

Grapefruit Cup 

Sweet Potato Croquettes Celery Sandwiches 

Egg Salad 

Creamed Corn in Pastry Shells Lady Washington Cake 

Orange Macaroons Salted Almonds 



80 HOSPITALITY 

Menu No. s — Cherry Menu 

Tomato Bouillon 

Hatchet-shaped Sandwiches Salmon Loaf 

Cherry-celery Salad 

Cherry Sherbet Cherry Cakes 

Cherry Bonbons 

Menu No. 4— Red, White, and Blue Menu 

Cream of Corn Soup in Blue Cups 

Deviled Lobster Escalloped Potatoes 

Beet Salad 

Fairy Cones Pimolas 

Patriotic Cake Ice-cream 

White and Yellow Bonbons in Blue Boxes 



Cream of Carrot Soup 

y2 dozen carrots 1 quart boiling water 

1 small onion 3 stalks celery 

2 cupfuls milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

Pinch of cayenne 

Scrape and slice the carrots, peel and slice 
the onion and cut the celery up into bits. Pour 
the boiling water over them, and let simmer 
slowly until tender. Eub the vegetables 
through a sieve, and then add to the liquid. 
Blend together in a double boiler the butter 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 31 

and flour, heat the milk and stir in, cook until 
smooth, then add the vegetable puree. Sea- 
son with the salt and pepper. If too thick add 
a little more milk. 

Deviled Lobster 

1 can lobster 8 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 tablespoonful chutney 1 tablespoonful mustard 

Bread-crumbs Lemon and parsley 

Melt the butter in a pan and add the lobster, 
the chutney and the made mustard and a few 
soft bread-crumbs. The lobster should be 
chopped fine. Stir until hot and well mixed, 
then place on bread rounds that have been 
fried in hot fat a delicate brown. Garnish 
each round with a slice of lemon and parsley. 
This mixture can be made in a chafing dish if 
preferred. 

Tomato Bouillon 

1 quart of tomatoes 1 quart milk 

2 slices of onion 3 stalks of celery 
Yz bay leaf 2 cloves 

2 peppercorns 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

Make a white sauce with the butter, flour 



32 HOSPITALITY 

and the milk. Stew the tomatoes with the 
onion, celery and spices for about twenty min- 
utes. Rub through a sieve, and just before 
combining the tomato juice with the white 
sauce add the soda. Season with salt and pep- 
per to taste, and a teaspoonful of sugar will 
improve it for most people. Serve toasted 
croutons with this, or crackers. 

Cherry Sherbet 

1 quart cherry juice B cupfuls of sugar 

2 egg-whites 1 tablespoonful gelatin 
2 lemons 2 oranges 

Add the sugar to the cherry juice, and heat 
to the boiling point, then stir in the gelatin 
that has been soaked in a little cold water; 
add the juice of the lemon and oranges and a 
teaspoonful of almond extract. Dilute the 
mixture with water until as sweet as desired 
and the strength liked, then strain and freeze. 
When nearly frozen, fold in the stifly beaten 
egg-whites and a few of the cherries chopped 
very fine. Cover carefully and pack in ice and 
let stand for an hour or so before serving. 



JEIOSPITALITY FOB HOLIDAYS 33 

Table Decorations for Fourth of July 
Tables 

It is nice to have the table decorations for 
the Fourth of July carried out in the patriotic 
colors, red, white and blue. It is advisable to 
use the red and white in the food, and the blue 
touch may be obtained by the use of blue china, 
or by garnishing the dishes with blue flowers. 

A red, white and blue color scheme may be 
carried out very nicely with flowers. Red, 
white and blue bachelor buttons make very 
effective decorations. Use a bowl of these for 
a centerpiece, then have at each plate a little 
old-fashioned bouquet of these flowers. If 
liked these may be placed on flag mat. An- 
other pretty floral decoration may be carried 
out in blue and white flowers with only a touch 
of red. Have in the center of the table a blue 
bowl filled with white blossoms. Place this on 
a red, white and blue mat. Have at each place 
a small white basket filled with the dainty blue 
forget-me-nots, pansies, larkspurs, or any 
blue flowers that are easily obtained. Tie to 
the handle of each of these little baskets a tiny 



34 HOSPITALITY 

bow of red ribbon, or a red firecracker. Tbe 
white place-cards may have a touch of red 
around the edge and the guests' names may be 
written on in red ink. Decorate the cards with 
blue pansies, forget-me-nots or whatever blos- 
soms are used on the table. 



Children's Tables for the Fourth of July 
Flag decorations are always appropriate for 
a children's table on the Fourth of July. Silk 
flags may be set up in tripod fashion in the 
center of the table and at each end. Suspend 
from the chandelier over the table a ball of 
flags; this is made by sticking small flags 
closely together in a large apple or potato. 
The edge of the white table-cloth may be 
trimmed with tiny flags crossed two by two. 
Tiny flags may be appliqued onto white china 
with flour paste, and will be sure to please the 
children; they can also be appliqued onto 
white candle shades and will seem to wave in 
the light behind them. The place-cards can be 
decorated with a border of tiny flags. Nearly 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 35 

every dish can have a flag served with, it in 
some way, and to crown the affair there may be 
a real flag cake, and the ice-cream may be 
molded and decorated to represent a flag. 



Menus and Recipes for the Fourth of July 

Red, White and Blue Menus 
Iced Cherries Pimiento Sandwiches 

Salmon Croquettes with Potato Border 
Stuffed Baked Tomatoes Red and White Radishes 

Celery Salad in Red Pepper Cases 
Red Raspberry Sherbet Angel Food Cake 



Tomato Appetizer 

Scalloped Potatoes in Blue Ramekins with Cheese Balls 

Molded Chicken Currant Jelly Sandwiches 

Cherry Salad 

Red Watermelon and White Ice-cream Small Cakes 

Red and White Bonbons 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Chicken in Red Sweet Bell Peppers Baked 

Tomato Sandwiches Egg and Beet Salad 

Chilled Rice with Fruit 

Cake Fourth of July Punch 



36 HOSPITALITY 

Iced Cherries 

Red cherries Sugar 

Almonds Orange-juice 

Drain tlie canned cherries of all juice. 
Pound the almonds to a paste and roll up into 
tiny balls and fill the holes in the cherries 
with these. Fill sherbet glasses half full of 
the stuffed cherries, then fill two-thirds full of 
orange and cherry juice mixed, well sweetened 
with sugar. Just before serving place a tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped ice on top of each 
glass. The almonds should be blanched before 
being pounded to a paste, and flavored with a 
little cinnamon or almond extract. 



Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 

Firm ripe tomatoes 2 cupfuls boiled chicken 

1 cupful boiled rice 2 tablespoonfuls celery 

1 tablespoonful onion-juice 1 teaspoonful chopped 

Salt, pepper and butter parsley 

Use one tomato for each person, scoop out 
the seeds and part of the pulp. Sprinkle the 
inside of the tomatoes with salt and pepper. 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 37 

Fill witli the other ingredients, well-mixed. 
Chop the cold-boiled chicken into bits, also 
chop the celery and parsley ( if liked the onion 
can be omitted ), melt the butter before adding. 
Place the top slice on the tomatoes, place in a 
bake-pan with a little butter and bake until 
the tomatoes are tender. 



Raspberry Sherbet 

1 quart raspberries 3 lemons 

1 pint water 2 cupfuls sugar 

2 eggs 1 teaspoonful lemon extract 

Cook the raspberries in the water and strain 
through a sieve, pressing as much of the pulp 
through as possible, add the sugar and the 
lemon-juice. Let cool, then pour into a freezer 
and freeze to a mushy consistency, then add 
the stiffl-y beaten whites of the eggs. If a 
tablespoonful of gelatin is added to the hot 
sirup it will give more body to the sherbet. 
Let stand several hours. Form or mold the 
sherbet, using a sherbet cup. Turn out onto a 
white plate and garnish with blue blossoms. 



38 HOSPITALITY 

Tomato Appetizer 

Small ripe tomatoes Sweet red peppers 

Mayonnaise dressing 2 eggs (hard-boiled) 

(white) 1 small onion 

Chopped parsley Parsley 
Salt and pepper 

Cut off the tops of the tomatoes, but do not 
peel. Scoop out some of the inside, and mix 
with part of this a little chopped red pepper, 
chopped parsley, one small onion and the eggs 
chopped very fine. Season with salt and pep- 
per, and, if liked, with a little anchovy paste 
and the mayonnaise. Fill this mixture into the 
cavities of the tomatoes. Serve one to each 
guest on a white plate, and garnish with blue 
pansies, bachelor buttons or larkspur. 



Cherry Salad 

Red and white cherries Almonds 

Sirup dressing Whipped cream 

Seed the cherries and combine after filling 
the cavities with bits of almond nut-meats. 
Dress with a thick sirup dressing made of 
fruit juice and sugar boiled together (lemon, 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 39 

cherry, orange or pineapple juice are all ex- 
cellent for this purpose). Heap up on indi- 
vidual blue plates and surround with a border 
of whipped cream. 



Red Watermelon with White Ice-Cream 
Choose a nice long watermelon and slice 
crosswise about an inch thick. Remove all the 
green rind and the seeds, leaving a ring of red 
melon. Place these slices on individual blue 
plates and fill the inside with white ice-cream, 
smoothing it level with the melon. 

Chicken in Sweet Bell Peppers (baked) 

Cold cooked chicken Bread-crumbs 

Celery or parsley Cream sauce 

Salt and pepper Sweet bell peppers 

Cut a slice of the stem ends of the peppers 
and remove the seeds. Chop up the chicken, 
and to each cupful add one-half cupful of 
cream sauce and one-half cupful bread-crumbs, 
add the seasoning, chopping the celery or 
parsley fine. Fill this mixture into the bell 



40 HOSPITALITY 

peppers, place in a bake-pan witli a little water 
or stock around them and bake mitil tender. 
Place one on individual plates of blue. 



TABLE DECOEATIONS FOE THANKS- 
GIYIE^G 

When arranging the decorations for the 
Thanksgiving table, try to make them as 
dainty and cheerful as possible. Every guest 
should aim to present to her guests a harmoni- 
ous picture, one that will be remembered in 
years to come, even if the menu to be served is 
a simple one. There is such a wealth of ma- 
terial to choose from for decorations at this 
season of the year that one need not lack in 
this respect. All the fruits of Mother Earth 
can be appropriately used at this time and 
until you have tried you could never dream 
how charming are the effects produced by the 
grouping of yellow and rosy red apples ; white, 
red and purple grapes; yellow and russet 
pears; oranges and bananas; or of melons; 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 41 

glowing iDimipkins; dark red cabbages; deep 
purple eggplant; bright red and green pep- 
pers ; white stalked celery with its light green 
foliage ; sprigs of parsley and cress. Then the 
different varieties of nuts and grains can be 
used effectively. The berries of the mountain- 
ash and bittersweet and brilliant sumach will 
lend a bit of charming color to the table, and 
the abundant foliage of the gayly tinted 
autumn leaves and the trailing vines will help 
to soften and mellow the whole. 

If fruit is used for the centerpiece, it may be 
arranged in a number of effective ways. A 
large bowl, or basket with handle, may be fash- 
ioned out of a large pumpkin and filled with 
fruit. This should be placed on a mat of bril- 
liant autumn leaves or grape leaves, inter- 
spersed with bittersweet berries. The edge of 
the basket and the handle, if a basket is used, 
should be wreathed with vines and red berries, 
or with chrysanthemums. If a pumpkin bas- 
ket is used for the centerpiece, it would be 
charming to have at each corner of the table a 
shallow pumpkin basket containing nuts and 



42 HOSPITALITY 

candies ; tliese baskets can be neatly lined witk 
crepe paper. When a fruit centerpiece is used, 
the salad will be attractive served in rosy red 
apples hollowed out, while at each plate could 
be a bunch of glace grapes. 

A nice idea is to make a mat of brown and 
yellow maple leaves in the center of the table, 
and on this place a tub or basket fashioned out 
of a large pumpkin. Fill this with fruits. 
Place all around the base of the pumpkin yel- 
low carrots with their green tops left on, or 
small beets may be used. Have all the vege- 
tables used clean and shining. Fashion out of 
squashes horns of plenty, and have one at each 
end of the table, filled to overflowing with 
nuts. Vegetables or small pumpkins hol- 
lowed out and lined with paraffine paper will 
make good bonbon holders, or cases for the 
salads and ices. 



Thanksgiving Tables for the Children 
When there is to be a family reunion or fam- 
ily party on Thanksgiving Day, and there are 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 43 

to be a good many children among the guests, 
it is advisable to plan for a separate table for 
them. This not only saves much confusion, 
but what is of still more importance, keeps 
the children from eating rich foods that will 
not be good for them that is being served to the 
grown-ups. The children's tables should be as 
carefully planned and decorated as the tables 
for their elders. 

A pretty table decoration for a children's 
Thanksgiving table is made by covering a table 
with a plain white oil-cloth, just cut to fit the 
top of the table. All around the sides of the 
table fasten a frill of crepe paper with a border 
of turkeys. This kind of cover will suit a cir- 
cular table best. Turkeys cut out of crepe 
paper may be pasted in a circle around the 
cloth just inside the plate line. If liked crepe 
paper decorated with turkey may be used on 
top of the table instead of the oil-cloth. A 
large papier-mache turkey with a cavity for 
bonbons or nuts may be used for a center- 
piece ; or a little yard may be built with birch 
bark, or twigs or pasteboard painted to repre- 



U HOSPITALITY 

sent boards. Inside of the yard place a num- 
ber of little papier-mache turkeys; these may 
be obtained for from a few cents up to ten 
cents according to size. 



Thanksgiving Dinner Menus 

Menu No. i 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Turkey with Oyster StufFmg 

Celery Browned Sweet Potatoes 

Stuffed Onions 

Salad in Green and Red Pepper Cases 

Pumpkin Pie Strawberry Tarts Mince Pie 

Cranberry Sherbet Raisin Nut Cakes 

Fruit Candies Nuts 

Coffee 

Menu No. 2 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Turkey with Chestnut Stuffing 

Riced Potatoes 

Creamed Peas in Carrot Cups Bean Salad in Beet Cups 

Whipped Cranberry Jelly Spiced Fruit 

Pumpkin Pie Apple Pie 

Ginger Sponge 

Nuts Fruits 

Coffee 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 45 

Menu No. $ 

Oyster Soup 

Crackers Pickles 

Turkey with Sausage Stuffing 

Cranberry Appetizer Ice 

Baked Hubbard Squash Scalloped Potatoes 

Tomato Mushroom Salad 

Caramel Pumpkin Pie Apple Pie 

Plum Pudding with Hard Sauce 

Nuts Fruits Candies 

Coffee 



Menus for Thanksgiving Day Luncheons 

Fruit Appetizer 
Turkey Sandwiches Tomato Nut Salad 

Baked Stuffed Apples 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 
Pear Compote Cocoanut Nut Cake 

Popcorn Balls Nut Candies 

Coffee 

Cream of Tomato and Celery Soup 

Apple Date Salad Tutti Frutti Sandwiches 

Turkey Patties 

Celery 

Pumpkin Custards Ginger Nut Cakes 

Crystallized Popcorn 

Fruits Nuts 

Coffee 



46 HOSPITALITY 

Pressed Turkey Sweet Corn Souffles 

Celery Rolls 

Cauliflower Pickle Sweet Peach Pickles 

Pumpkin Fanchonettes 

Pineapple Sponge Chocolate Nut Cake 

Salted Almonds 



Oyster Stuffing for Turkey 

1 quart bread-crumbs 1 pint oysters 

2 teaspoonfuls salt ^ teaspoonful pepper 
1 tablespoonful chopped 1 tablespoonful butter 

parsley 

Mix all well together, and stuff the turkey 
with this. If the turkey is large the ingredi- 
ents can be increased to suit. Drain the juice 
from the oysters before measuring. 



Stuffed Onions 

Large white onions Butter 

Grated ham Bread-crumbs 

A little chopped parsley Salt and pepper 
or celery 

Kemove the skins from the onions and par- 
boil in slightly salted water for ten minutes. 
Drain and set aside to cool. Mix together 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 47 

some bread-crumbs, a little grated or finely 
chopped ham, a little of the onion removed 
from the center of the onions. Season and 
moisten with a little melted butter or cream. 
Fill this mixture into the cavities of the on- 
ions, after the centers of the onions have been 
removed. Sprinkle the top with buttered 
bread-crumbs, and bake in the oven until ten- 
der. Use about one-half cupful of ham to a 
cupful and a half of bread-crumbs. 



Browned Sweet Potatoes 
Boil sweet potatoes until tender, peel, and 
lay in roasting-pan close to the turkey for the 
last half hour, or until browned. 



Cranberry Sherbet 

1 quart cranberry-juice Juice of five oranges 

2 pounds granulated sugar 1 pint water 
4 egg-whites 

Place the water and sugar over the fire and 
cook until all the sugar is dissolved; then add 



4S HOSPITALITY 

the cranberry juice and the juice of the or- 
anges. If too strong add a little more water. 
Pour into an ice-cream freezer and freeze to a 
mushy consistency. Whip the whites of the 
eggs very stiff and stir into the cranberry mix- 
ture, then complete the freezing without stir- 
ring. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

1 dozen stalks of celery 3 cupfuls of water 
y-2 onion A bay leaf 

A bit of mace 2 or 3 peppercorns 

2 cupfuls milk Salt and pepper 

1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 cupful cream Vz teaspoonful sugar 

Wash the celery stalks thoroughly and 
break into small pieces, put over the fire with 
the water, onion and other spices, and let sim- 
mer very slowly for an hour. Then pass 
through a coarse sieve. Make a thin sauce 
with the flour, butter and milk heated. 
When smooth, season, add the celery puree, 
and lastly stir in the cream. Blend all well 
together and serve in bouillon cups with crou- 
tons or wafers. 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 49 
Caramel-Pumpkin Pie 

1 pint steamed pumpkin 1 pint good milk 

3 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Place in a stew-pan the butter and the sugar 
and heat to the caramel stage, but be careful 
not to scorch. Keniove from the fire and add 
one pint of steamed pumpkin which has been 
passed through a colander, add the milk, the 
eggy well-beaten, and the flavoring. Line deep 
pie tins with good pie pastry, pour in the 
pumpkin mixture and bake a nice brown. 



Plum Pudding 

1 cupful flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 cupful brown sugar 1>^ cupfuls bread-crumbs 

1 cupful raisins 1 cupful chopped suet 

^ cupful chopped citron 1 cupful currants 

J4 teaspoonful allspice, ]^ cupful chopped almonds 

nutmeg, and salt 4 eggs 

Grated rind of one lemon 5^ cupful grape-juice 

1 cupful milk y2 teaspoonful soda 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly to- 
gether, and the liquid ingredients also thor- 



50 HOSPITALITY 

oughly together, adding the soda last dissolved 
in a little water. Stir the liquid into the dry 
ingredients. Turn this into a mold and steam 
six hours. This makes a very large pudding. 
Serve with a hard sauce or a fruit sauce. 



TABLE DECORATIONS FOR CHRISTMAS 

Every home should be decorated for the 
merry holiday season. Especially should this 
be true of the dining-room and the table 
around which the festivities circle. These 
decorations need not be elaborate, but can be 
simple and artistic. Red and green are called 
the Christmas colors; the other colors that are 
especially suitable for Christmas are white, 
the emblem of purity, and yellow, which signi- 
fies joy and happiness. 

A red and green basket scheme makes a 
very effective table decoration for the Christ- 
mas season, and need not be expensive. A 
basket can be painted a deep red and filled 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 51 

witli trailing vines and ferns; this basket, if 
not too large, may be suspended over the cen- 
ter of the table, with the vines trailing down 
on the cloth. Have at each plate little ever- 
green baskets filled with red blossoms, or they 
can be lined with waxed paper and filled with 
red bonbons. An evergreen basket filled 
with red blossoms makes a pretty centerpiece. 
From the basket fine ropes of evergreen may 
extend to the four corners of the table, and 
there tied to other smaller baskets. An ever- 
green basket filled with ruddy red apples may 
be substituted for one with flowers if pre- 
ferred. At each plate may be placed a spray 
of holly with its red berries. The ices may 
be served in little green and red baskets lined 
with waxed paper. 

A sparkling snow effect is nice carried out 
in the dining-room and table decorations. The 
evergreen, holly and mistletoe used for decora- 
tions should be treated to a shower of thin gum 
arable or alum water, and while still damp 
sprinkled with diamond dust, making the deco- 
rations look as if they were covered with hoar- 



62 HOSPITALITY 

frost or ice. Everything in tlie form of deco- 
ration should be white on the table except a 
touch of green and red which sprays of holly 
will provide. Use pure white china and white 
candle holders or crystal holders. Cover the 
white candles with white shades made of white 
frosted crepe paper which one may buy ready 
for use, and the edges may be decorated with 
tiny glass icicles. For a centerpiece for the 
table cut a circular mat out of cotton wadding, 
and in the center of this place a snowball made 
out of the same material. Sprinkle all over 
plentifully with diamond dust. On the top of 
the snowball place a spray of frosted holly, 
and partly encircle the ball with a diminutive 
Santa Glaus, fur-clad and white-bearded, driv- 
ing his eight reindeers attached to a tiny sled 
or sleigh containing little bundles done up in 
red and green paper. Have at each plate 
snowballs made out of frosted crepe paper and 
decorate the tops with sprays of frosted holly ; 
if liked, these balls may contain souvenirs of 
the occasion or some little toy. 
At each end of the table have a crystal dish 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 53 

heaped up with popcorn balls; these are nice 
rolled in a sticky sirup, then rolled in rock 
candy that has been pounded into bits. These 
will sparkle in the light. Snowball cakes may 
be made by cutting any white loaf cake into 
ball shape, icing in white, and then rolling 
them in cocoanut. Mashed potatoes may be 
formed into snowballs and surrounded with 
parsley to give a touch of green. The ice- 
cream may be molded in the same shape also. 
The place-cards may be decorated with little 
frosted snow scenes, and also with a bit of 
holly. 

A pretty table effect that is especially dainty 
is carried out in gold and white. The china 
and table linen should all be in pure white. 
Have for the centerpiece a gilded basket or gold 
bowl filled with pure white blossoms, such as 
carnations or roses. The place-cards should 
be gilt-edged and if liked a little figure in 
gold may be painted or appliqued on. Serve 
yellow bonbons in little white or gold recepta- 
cles. 

Another pretty effect may be obtained with 



54: HOSPITALITY 

gilt stars. Have a toucli of green with this 
decoration; for instance, in the center of the 
table may be arranged a star made of ever- 
green, and in the center of this place a smaller 
gilt star. The place-cards may be decorated 
with a border of tiny gilt stars, or just one 
larger gilt star in the corner. White bonbon 
boxes decorated Avith tiny gilt stars are nice to 
have at each plate; and if candles are used, 
have them decorated with tiny stars. 



Christmas Decorations for Children's 
Tables 

A Christmas-tree table always delights the 
children. Paint a pot red and plant in it a 
small Christmas tree. Choose a nice-shaped 
tree ; just a branch of evergreen, if of the right 
shape and nicely trimmed, will serve the pur- 
pose very nicely. Be sure to have it firm and 
secure in the pot. It can be decorated with 
tinsel, cranberries, popcorn and tiny toys, 
stars and little stockings made of cambric or 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 55 

tarletan. Tiny candles can be used on the 
tree, and everything should be on the small 
order. Little individual trees to place at each 
plate can be made by taking small sprays of 
evergreen and sticking them in the ends of 
spools that have been painted or colored red. 
Fasten on the top of each tree a gilt star, a 
little Santa Claus or a tiny red candle. 

A nice centerpiece for a children's table is 
made by laying a circular mat of fleecy cotton 
in the center of the table and sprinkling it well 
with mica. Place a wreath of holly around 
the edge, and coming across the snow have a 
little sleigh drawn by reindeers with Santa 
Claus driving, surrounded by his toys. Santa 
Claus in his aeroplane is another good idea. 
The aeroplane should be suspended over the 
table, and for a centerpiece have a row of little 
pasteboard houses arranged on a square of 
cotton. These houses can be made of red card- 
board, with windows and doors outlined 
with chalk or with ink, and with little chim- 
neys pasted on. They can be bought if pre- 
ferred. 



56 HOSPITALITY 

Christmas Dinner Menus 

Menu No. i 

Clear Soup Wafers 

Roast Goose with Potato Stuffing 

Escalloped Onions Sweet Potato Puff Celery 

Cole Slaw 

Orange Bavarian Pudding Fruit Cake 

Mince Pie 

Nuts Raisins Candies 

Coffee 

Menu No. 2 

Oyster Soup Crackers 

Roast Turkey with Rice Dressing 

Baked Apples and Cranberries Creamed Carrots 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Apple and Date Salad Cheese Straws 

English Plum Pudding 

Lemon Pie 

Grape Cream 

Fruits , Christmas Bonbons 

Menu No. 3 

Tomato Bouillon Croutons 

Roast Duck with Mushroom Sauce 

Sweet Potato Croquettes Pea Patties 

Jellied Tomato Salad Cream Cheese Balls 

Celery Olives Pickles 

Steamed Date Pudding with Orange Sauce 

Bonbons Nuts 

Coffee 



HOSPITALITY FOE HOLIDAYS 61 
Sweet Potato Puff 

3 cupfuls sweet potatoes 3 eggs 

i^ cupful cream Salt and pepper 

Peel, wash and boil some sweet potatoes, 
and pass through a potato ricer, then season 
with the cream, salt and pepper, and add the 
well-beaten egg yolks. Beat up the whites of 
the eggs until stiff and fold in. Mix lightly, 
and put in a buttered bake-dish and bake until 
puffed up and a nice brown on top. 



Orange Bavarian Pudding 

1 pint orange-juice 1 cupful rich cream 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatin yi cupful boiling water 
y2 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful orange 
y2 cupful cold water extract 

Dissolve the gelatin in the cold water, then 
stir in the boiling water, add the sugar. When 
cool, stir in the cream beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat up until light and foamy. Pour in wet- 
ted mold and chill. Turn out, and serve with 
whipped cream, and garnish with orange car- 
pels. 



58 HOSPITALITY 

Baked Apples and Cranberries 

Sweet apples Cranberries 

Cinnamon Sugar 

Peel, halve and core some nice large sweet 
or semi-sweet apples, and fill the cavities with 
sugar and cinnamon mixed. Place these in 
the bottom of a bake-dish and place over them 
a layer of cranberries, sprinkled liberally with 
sugar. Bake in the oven until the apples are 
tender and the cranberry juice has penetrated 
them. 



Mushroom Sauce for Roast Duck 

1 pint canned mushrooms ^ cupful water 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls flour 
Yi cupful milk Vi cupful stock 

J/2 teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Make a cream sauce by blending together 
in a double boiler the butter and flour and the 
water, milk and soup stock. Stir until smooth 
and thick, then season to taste. Turn in the 
mushrooms and simmer slowly for ten or fif- 
teen minutes. If too thick thin with a little 
milk or stock. 



HOSPITALITY FOR HOLIDAYS 59 

Pea Patties 
To make these take small rolls and scoop out 
some of the centers from each and toast a deli- 
cate brown in the oven. Drain a can of peas 
from all liquid, and place in a colander and 
throw some cold water over them. Make a 
cream sauce with butter, flour and milk; sea- 
son to taste, and stir in the peas. Fill these 
in the patty rolls. If preferred the peas may 
be served in pastry patty shells. 

Steamed Date Pudding 

1 cupful stoned and 1 teaspoonful salt 
chopped dates 1 cupful sweet milk 

2 tablespoonfuls grated 3 level cupfuls bread 
orange peel 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 

^ cupful sugar powder 

1 cupful flour 1 well-beaten egg 

Sift the baking-powder and salt with the 
flour and mix it and the other ingredients thor- 
oughly together. Pour into a greased mold, 
and steam for two hours at least. Serve with 
an orange sauce made the same as lemon sauce 
only use orange-juice and orange extract for 
flavoring instead pf the lemon. 



II 

HOSPITALITY FOR SPECIAL 
DAYS 



CHAPTER II 

HOSPITALITY FOR SPECIAL DAYS 

Table Decorations for St. Valentine^s Day 
Hearts always make the most appropriate 
decorations for the St. Valentine's Day tables. 
A charming effect is obtained by cutting hearts 
out of crepe paper in all colors ranging from 
the palest pink to the deepest red. Place four 
red hearts in the center of the table, having the 
bottom of the hearts pointing towards the cor- 
ners of the tables ; then gradually arrange the 
hearts in a line from these, shading towards 
the pale pink hearts at the corners of the table. 
The hearts would be nice if cut in different 
sizes, the largest hearts placed in the center of 
the table and gradually smaller as they near 
the corners of the table. In the center of the 
table may be placed a vase or basket of pink 
or red roses. The place-cards may be pale 
pink, Valentine hearts. 

63 



64 HOSPITALITY 

A heart-shaped Jack Horner pie always 
makes a good centerpiece. Use a heart-shaped 
pasteboard box foundation for this pie. Cover 
with pink crepe paper and pink paper roses; 
or with white crepe paper decorated with red 
heart pasters. From a hole in the center have 
ribbons extend to each plate. Have the rib- 
bons in the pie attached to little candy motto 
hearts ; these may be pulled out at the close of 
the luncheon. At each plate may be a heart- 
shaped frame holding the picture of a pretty 
girPs head or of a Cupid. Letter the names at 
the bottom of these, and they will serve as 
place-cards. If you wish something simpler 
try this : Place in the center of the table a red 
lace paper mat in heart shape. In the center 
of this place a pink-covered pasteboard box, 
somewhat smaller than the mat. Paste a 
white heart in the center of the cover an inch 
or two smaller than the cover of the box, and 
in the center of this paste a small red heart. 
Have smaller heart-shaped boxes to match 
at each plate to hold the heart-shaped bon- 
bons. 



FOB SPECIAL DAYS 



65 



St. Valentine^s Day Luncheons 

Heart Menus 

Menu No. i 

Cream Soup with Pimiento Hearts 

Cheese and Nut Hearts 

Salmon Croquettes Ham Canapes 

Tomato Heart Salad 

Sweethearts 

Ice-C?eam Hearts Cupid Cakes 

Heart-shaped Bonbons 



Menu No. 2 
Tomato Bisque 
Pimiento and Cheese Sandwiches 

Beet Heart Salad 
Heart Tarts 
Heart's Delight 

Macaroon Hearts 



Lobster Hearts 



Angel Hearts 



In preparing the heart-shaped dishes for the 
heart menus you will need heart-shaped cut- 
ters in various sizes. If you cannot find the 
sizes desired at the tin store, a tinsmith can 
make them in any size you may wish. You 
will also need heart-shaped molds and heart- 
shaped patty-pans. 



^6 HOSPITALITY 

Cheese and Nut Hearts 

2 cupfuls flour 1 cupful pecan nut-meats 

1 teaspoonful baking- J^ cupful cream cheese 

powder 1 egg and a little ice-water 
J^ teaspoonful salt 

Sift the flour, baking-powder and salt thor- 
oughly together, add the pecan nut-meats 
chopped fine, and just enough ice-water to 
make a dough that will roll out nicely. EoU 
out about an eighth of an inch thick on a 
floured board, and spread with the cream 
cheese. Fold over three or four times, roll in 
thin sheets and cut out with a heart-shaped 
cutter. Brush over each heart with the white 
of an egg, and bake a delicate brown in the 
oven. These are nice served with the cream 
soup or bouillon with little beet hearts or 
pimiento hearts floating in it. 



Cheese Sandwiches in Heart-shape 

1 cupful cream cheese 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful paprika ^ cupful butter 

Pimientoes Bread 

Cut the bread in thin slices. Mix into a 



FOE SPECIAL DAYS 67 

paste the cream cheese, butter, salt and pa- 
prika, and spread on one-half of the bread 
hearts. With a smaller heart-cutter cut out 
openings in the other half of the bread hearts. 
Place on top of the other pieces and fill the 
heart openings with chopped pimientoes. The 
effect of a red heart within a white one is very 
pretty. 



Lobster Hearts 

1 teaspoonful lemon-juice 1 can lobster 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 egg Pie pastry 

1 pint milk 

Bake a rich baking-powder pie pastry and 
roll a fourth of an inch thick. Cut about a 
third of the dough into thick narrow strips. 
Cut the rest out with a heart-shaped cutter, 
and place the strips around the edge of each to 
form a deep cup-like edge. Drain the liquor 
from the lobster into a bowl and free from 
bones. Pour over the lobster a white sauce 
made by blending together in a double boiler 



68 HOSPITALITY 

the butter and flour. Heat the milk and stir 
in, and also the liquor from about the lobster. 
Stir constantly until smooth, and season. Fill 
the pastry shells with this mixture and bake in 
a moderate oven about twenty minutes. Brush 
the inside of the shells with the white of an 
egg before placing in the lobster mixture. 



Heart Tarts 

Pie pastry Strawberry preserves 

Line heart-shaped patty pans with good pie 
pastry and bake a delicate brown in the oven. 
When cool, fill Avith strawberry preserves. 



Angel Hearts 

Angel cake Candied cherries 

Pink fondant 

Take an angel cake that is a day or so old 
and cut into slices about half an inch thick; 
then cut out with a small heart-shaped cutter. 
Dip each little heart into pink fondant and 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 69 

decorate witli tiny hearts cut out of candied 
cherries. 

Heart's Delight 

Yz cupful water 1 cupful sugar 

1 cupful cream 2 oz. gelatin or jelly powder 

1 pint cherry-juice Candied cherries 

Soak two ounces of gelatin or required 
amount of jelly powder until soft ; dissolve by 
adding one-half cupful of boiling water. Add 
to this the red cherry juice and the sugar. If 
the juice has already been sweetened use only 
a half cupful of sugar. Stir until it begins to 
grow thick ; then fold in the cream, beat until 
stiff. Line heart molds with little candied 
cherry hearts and pour in the mixture. Let 
stand until firm and turn out. 

Table Decorations for St. Pateick^s Day 
The color scheme should be white and green. 
Have as many foliage plants and vines about 
the dining-room as possible. With these may 
be used white jonquils, snowdrops, narcissi 
and crocuses, also white tulips. 



10 HOSPITALITY 

For a centerpiece a basket or pot of oxalis 
would be pretty and appropriate, as it comes 
nearer to the shamrock than anything else ; if 
you do not have the oxalis, then a pretty effect 
may be obtained with ferns and white spring 
blossoms. Arrange a mat in the center of the 
table of the delicate asparagus plumosa or 
maiden-hair ferns. In the center of this place 
a pretty rustic or fancy basket filled with ferns 
and white blossoms. If preferred, a green or 
white bowl may be used instead of the basket. 
A cluster of green and white carnations in a 
crystal vase on a green mat is also effective. 
Green candlesticks with white shades will add 
to the general effect. Place-cards should be 
decorated with shamrocks done in water colors 
or appliqued on. Small green silk flags with 
a golden harp outlined on them can be crossed 
and fastened to the white cloth at intervals. 
Small green baskets filled with white mints 
may be placed at each plate. White china 
decorated with green would add to the appear- 
ance of the table, or pure white china may be 
used. 



FOE SPECIAL DAYS Yl 

St. Patrick's Day Luncheons 

Menu No. i 

Cream of Spinach Soup Pistachio Nut Wafers 

Baked Asparagus with Hollandaise Sauce 

Jellied Chicken Salad 

Celery Rolls 

Mint Ice Erin Loaf Cake 

St. Patrick's Candies 

Menu No. 2 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Dublin Salad Lettuce Sandwiches 

Fish with Spinach Sauce 

Pickles Olives 

Pistachio Ice-Cream Blarney Stones 

Emerald Sea Foam 



Cream of Spinach Soup 

2 cupfuls boiled spinach 1 quart milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour Slice of onion 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Salt and pepper 

Place the milk in a double boiler and add tbe 
onion, and bring to a boil, then remove the 
onion. Blend the flour and butter together, 
then gradually stir in the scalded milk. Add 



Y2 HOSPITALITY 

tlie cooked spinacli, wliicli should be passed 
through a sieve. Stir until thoroughly mixed, 
then season with salt and pepper. Serve in 
bouillon cups with a dot of whipped cream in 
the center. 



Pistachio Nut Tarts oe Wafers 

Pie pastry 3 tablespoonfuls powdered 

2 eggs sugar 

y-2. cupful pistachio nuts 

Make a short pie pastry. Mix a tablespoon- 
ful of the powdered sugar with the flour on the 
board, and roll out very thin. Dip fancy cut- 
ters in flour, and cut out ; then pierce half of 
the cakes with a small circular cutter. Some 
of the cakes can be made with one hole, some 
with two or three. Place these on greased 
pans and bake in the oven a pale brown. Make 
a paste with the stifly beaten whites of the 
eggs, the powdered sugar and the nut-meats 
chopped very fine. Spread this on the cakes 
left whole, and then place the cakes with the 
holes on top. If there is any of the paste left 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 73 

fill into the holes. If you are making many- 
cakes, double the amount of nuts and egg- 
whites, so you will have enough for all. 



Baked Asparagus 

1 pint asparagus tips 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Salt and pepper Bread-crumbs 

Use only the tender tips, and place in a bak- 
ing-dish. Dot over with the butter, and sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, seasoned with a little lemon-juice, or 
sauce. Bake in the oven until the crumbs are 
brown. Serve with a Hollandaise cream sauce 
or a plain cream sauce, as liked. 

Sauce Hollandaise. — Place in a double boiler 
one-half cupful of butter that has been beaten 
to a cream, stir in the well-beaten yolks of four 
eggs. Beat up until thick and creamy, then 
add one-half teaspoonful of salt and the juice 
of half a lemon. Place over the fire and add 
gradually one cupful of hot water. Stir until 
thick and smooth. If this sauce is used with 
the asparagus do not add lemon to the crumbs. 



74 HOSPITALITY 

Celery Rolls 
Use small rolls, and one for each, person to 
be served. Carefully remove some of the inside 
from each roll. Place in each cavity a tea- 
spoonful of melted butter, distributing it over 
the sides. Chop some inside tender stalks of 
celery fine, season well with salt and pepper. 
Add a little chopped chicken or ham, and fill 
into the rolls. The meat can be omitted if 
liked. 



Erin Loaf Cake 

1 cupful butter 6 eggs 

2 cupfuls of sugar 1 cupful of milk 
3>2cupfuls of flour 1 teaspoonful almond 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking- extract 

powder Angelica 

Cream together the butter and sugar, then 
add the milk and flour into which the baking- 
powder can be sifted, then fold in the stiffty 
beaten whites of the six eggs. Eemove one- 
third of the batter and color with a few drops 
of green vegetable coloring. Pour some of the 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 75 

batter into a deep cake pan, then place over it 
a few spoonfuls of the green batter, then more 
of the white, and so on until all the batter is 
used. This will give a green and white effect. 
Ice the cake with white icing flavored with 
almond extract, and decorate with angelica in 
form of green leaves of the shamrock. 



Blarney Stones 

1 cupful of sugar 2 eggs 

5^ cupful of butter 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

l^cupfuls of flour ^teaspoonful cloves 

1 cupful chopped walnut- ^ teaspoonful nutmeg 

meats 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful chopped raisins 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
^2 cupful sour milk 

Mix together the dry ingredients. Cream 
together the sugar and butter, add the eggs, 
milk and vanilla, stir into the dry ingredients 
and beat thoroughly. This should make a stiff 
drop batter; if not, add a little more flour. 
Drop by spoonfuls onto a greased pan, and 
bake a nice brown. 



76 HOSPITALITY 

Cream of Pea Soup 

1 pint cooked peas 1 cupful cooked lettuce 

^ cupful almonds 3 cupfuls milk 

1 cupful cream 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

S tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful salt 

>4 teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful sugar 

Blend together in a double boiler the butter 
and the flour, and add one cupful of milk, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth and thick ; season 
with the salt, sugar and pepper; then stir in 
the remainder of the milk. Pass the peas and 
the lettuce through a sieve and add this puree 
to the milk. Bring to the boil, then stir in the 
cupful of cream and finely chopped almonds. 



Spinach Sauce for Baked Fish 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 cupful milk 

^ cupful spinach-juice 1 tablespoonful lemon-juice 

Place the butter and flour together in a dou- 
ble boiler and blend thoroughly, then gradu- 
ally add the milk, and stir until smooth and 
thick. Stir in the thick spinach- juice, and 



FOB SPECIAL DAYS 77 

season to taste with salt and pepper ; then add 
the lemon- juice. If this does not make the 
sauce a nice green, add a little vegetable color- 
ing in addition to the spinach juice. 



Mint Ice 

3 oranges 1 quart cold water 

3 lemons Mint leaves 

Essence of peppermint 2 cupfuls sugar 

1 tablespoon ful gelatin 2 egg-whites 

Simmer together the water, the rind of two 
lemons and a handful of mint leaves and the 
sugar. When it begins to thicken into a sirup 
remove the leaves and rind and add the gelatin 
that has been dissolved in one-half cupful cold 
water; add the juice of the oranges and the 
lemons, and the essence of peppermint, using a 
few drops. Color a deep green with green 
vegetable coloring. Pour into ice-cream 
freezer and freeze until mushy; then add the 
stifly beaten whites of the eggs. Pack down 
in salt and ice, and let stand two or three 
hours. 



78 HOSPITALITY 

Pistachio Ice-cream 

1 cupful pistachio nuts 2 quarts cream 

^ cupful almonds 1 pound sugar 

1 teaspoonful pistachio ^ teaspoonful almond 
extract extract 

Add the sugar to a pint of tlie cream and 
bring to the boil. Set aside to cool, then add 
the remainder of the cream, the extracts, and 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Pour into a 
freezer, and when partly frozen add the 
chopped nut-meats. Complete the freezing; 
then let stand an hour or so to ripen up. If 
liked this may be colored a pale green with 
vegetable coloring. 



TABLE DECOEATIONS FOE EASTERTIDE 
Floral Decorations for the Easter Table 
Flowers have always held an important 
place in the celebration of the Easter festival, 
and the spring blossoms, such as violets, nar- 
cissi, jonquils, hyacinths, tulips, daffodils, 
primroses, valley lilies, pansies, and sweet 
peas forced for the occasion, all make delight- 
ful table decorations. 



FOE SPECIAL DAYS Y9 

At no season is there a better opportunity to 
show one's artistic sldll and taste tlian at this 
season, when there is such a wealtli of material 
to choose from. The regular Easter lilies are 
often objected to for table decoration on ac- 
count of the strong perfume ; in this case calla 
lilies will nicely take their place. Some de- 
lightful color schemes may be carried out with 
the spring blossoms in the Easter colors, which 
are yellow, the color of sunlight; pale green, 
the color of spring; white, the symbol of pu- 
rity, and " there are some purple for Passion- 
tide " also. 

If the table decorations are to be calla lilies, 
then use for a centerpiece a large bouquet of 
these pure white blossoms, and fill their waxen 
cups with tiny bunches of the dainty blue for- 
get-me-nots, bluets, or violets. Have a single 
lily at each plate, and also have the cups of 
these filled with the small blue blossoms. The 
place-cards should be cut out of white or cream 
celluloid in shape of calla lilies painted in the 
center with forget-me-nots. 

A pretty scheme may be entirely carried out 



80 HOSPITALITY 

in white calla lilies. Fill a crystal vase witli 
the lilies and use as a centerpiece, and at each, 
plate have a single calla lily with a bit of silver 
gauze tied to the stem. If candlesticks are 
used, have the candlesticks of silver or crystal, 
with silvered paper shades. 

If the decorations for the table are to be 
Easter lilies, the following scheme may be car- 
ried out : Fill a tall crystal vase with a dozen 
or more of the lilies, and place on a circular 
mirror. Wreathe the edge with vines, and 
any small spring blossoms. The place- 
cards may be lilies cut out of water-color 
paper or celluloid of ivory tint ; have a single 
blossom and one or two leaves. Outline the 
flower to bring out the petals ; then shade them 
with cream and pale green water-color paints. 
The stamens should be painted brown, tipped 
with yellow, and the stems and leaves dark 
gi'een. Letter or write the guests' names on 
the leaves with gold ink. Place one of these 
lilies at each plate. For bonbon boxes use 
small round or hexagon-shaped boxes; if not 
readily procured they may be easily made. 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 81 

Cover tlie box with pale green paper, also line 
the box with crepe paper, using white paper. 
Cut a lily out of ivory-tinted water-color paper. 
Outline the petals with gold and shade a dull 
green, paint the stamens and pistils brown 
tipped with yellow. Fasten the lily to the 
cover of the box so that the ends of the petals 
will extend over the edge of the box. Fill the 
boxes made after this manner with bonbons 
and place one at each plate. 



Easter Egg-shell Decorations 
Egg-shells alone, prosaic though they may 
sound, can be depended upon to furnish ex- 
ceedingly pretty decorative effects; and egg- 
shells, after the Easter cake-baking and des- 
sert-making are accomplished, are apt to be a 
drug in the home market. Care needs to be 
taken, of course, in emptying the shells of their 
contents, to keep the shell intact. For a cen- 
terpiece get a tiny evergreen tree, or — ^better 
still — a little shrub or branches of the blossom- 
ing forsythia or flowering currant. Decorate 



82 HOSPITALITY 

this with shining gilt stars and crosses, and 
from the branches hang egg-shells — hen or 
duck — that have been decorated in oil or water 
colors. Some may have painted on them little 
landscapes, suggestive of the springtime, oth- 
ers flowers appropriate to the season, or flights 
of butterflies. 

These shells can be left in their natural 
colors for a background or be solidly colored 
before applying the decorations. If no one in 
the family is clever with the brush, some of 
the shells may be gilded and others colored 
blue, with gilt stars, butterflies, and birds cut 
from cards or paper and pasted on, the edges 
being touched up with gilt. Run baby ribbon 
in delicate shades through the holes at either 
end of each shell from which the contents were 
blown out, tie the ends of the ribbons together 
in perky little bows and suspend. These may 
be distributed afterwards as souvenirs. 

To make name cards, mount egg-shells, with 
faces and hair painted on them, on the ends of 
plain cards, writing the name at the other end. 
Strips of cardboard or stiff paper in a circle 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 83 

can be used for the necks, and they should be 
glued to the small end of the shell. The head 
at each place should suggest, in some way, the 
characteristics of the guest. For instance, the 
acknowledged belle of the crowd should have 
an exceedingly pretty face, with a pink or blue 
crepe paper frill about the neck and a picture 
hat of crepe paper on the head. For a quiet 
person, a Quaker or Quakeress with Quaker 
hat or bonnet ; for the student, a college cap, or 
mortar-board. 

Children's Easter Tables 
Unique and delightful table decorations for 
the children's Easter tables are easily carried 
out. A novel and pleasing centerpiece for the 
table may be made by taking a tray, filling it 
with sand and concealing the edge with smilax 
or ferns. A little fence made of water-color 
paper or pasteboard painted to resemble wood 
may be placed around the edge of the tray; 
this makes a good chicken yard. Make a good 
coop also of pasteboard or cardboard, and 
place in the center of the yard. Buy a toy 



84 HOSPITALITY 

hen with, a brood of tiny, downy chicks and 
also a rooster. Place the rooster on top of the 
coop, the hen inside the coop, and the chicks 
in the yard. Take a little toy dish and fill 
with cornmeal, and a little toy tin-pan of 
water, and place near the coop. At each plate 
may be little nests of candy eggs. 

A bunny centerpiece is also appropriate. A 
coach may be fashioned out of a grapefruit 
rind, with wheels made of the slices of lemon. 
To this can be harnessed six little bunnies, us- 
ing narrow ribbon for harness. At each plate 
may be little toy bunnies bearing tiny baskets 
of eggs on their backs. A cake iced with maple 
or chocolate icing, and decorated with marsh- 
mallow bunnies also makes a nice centerpiece. 



Easter Menus for Chh^dren 

Orange Pulp in Orange Shell Baskets 
Rice Croquettes in Egg-shape Egg Sandwiches 

Cream Cheese Eggs in Nests of Cress 
Ice-Cream (in form of chicks) 

Egg-shaped Sponge Cakes 
Egg Candies 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 85 

Cream of Corn Soup 
Creamed Whitefish in Egg-shaped Ramekins 

Peanut Sandwiches 

Boiled and Colored Eggs 

Mashed Potatoes (molded in egg-shape in parsley baskets) 

Ice-Cream (egg-shape) Eittle Cakes 

Egg-shaped Bonbons 



Bunny Sandwiches Carrot Eggs in Cream Sauce 

Cream Cheese (molded in form of rabbits with clove eyes) 

Easter Omelet 

Ice-Cream Bunnies Bunny Cakes 

Marshmallow Bunnies 



Fruit Mixture in Lemon Shells 
Chicken Sandwiches Potato Chick Croquettes 

Creamed Asparagus 

Custards or Easter Egg Dessert Sunshine Cake 

Easter Candies 



Potato Chicks 

Cold mashed potatoes Cream 

Butter Egg-white 

Celery leaves Almonds 

Beat the masliecl potatoes up until light, 
adding a little cream and butter. Mold 



86 HOSPITALITY 

quickly into the shape of chicks. Glaze over 
the outside with the white of eggy and place in 
the oven a few moments. Halved, blanched 
almonds may be stuck in for the beaks, cloves 
for the eyes, and celery leaves for the wings 
and the tails, and you have yellow chicks 
which will look nice standing in a nest of cress 
or parsley. 



Easter Egg Dessert 

1 quart good milk 1 cupful sugar 
4 tablespoonfuls corn- 1 cupful water 

starch ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls vanilla 1 ounce chocolate 
1 egg Red coloring 
Lemon jelly Whipped cream 

Heat the milk in a double boiler with the 
sugar and then stir in the corn-starch dissolved 
in the water (milk may be used). Stir until 
smooth and thick, season with salt and vanilla. 
Divide the mixture into four portions. Leave 
one portion whites, stir into another the 
beaten yolk of egg^ in another the chocolate, 
melted, and in the other a little red fruit color- 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 87 

ing. Have ready as many egg-shells as you 
have guests. Rinse out and stand on end in 
pan of salt or sawdust. Fill with the blanc- 
mange, and place in a cool place until cold. 



Easter Dinner Menus 

Consomme Wafers 

Salmon I^oaf with Tomato Sauce 

Roast Chicken or Veal 

Spiced Pears Celery 

Escalloped Eggs and Celery 

Creamed CauUflower 

Grapefruit Salad Rolls 

Pineapple-Orange Sherbet 

Sunshine Cake Salted Almonds 

Pimiento Canapes 

Mushroom Soup Crackers 

Baked Whitefish with Lemon Sauce 

Mixed Pickles 

Crown of Lamb Cherry Mint Sauce 

Mint Glazed Carrots Potato Rissolees 

Easter Salad Rolls 

Ginger Ice Cream 

Orange Cake Nut Macaroons 

Crackers Cheese 

Mints 



88 HOSPITALITY 

Grapefruit Salad 

3 grapefruits 3 oranges 

Pineapple lycmon sirup dressing 

Cut the grapefruits in halves and remove 
the pulp carefully so as to leave the cups per- 
fect. Kemove the seeds from the pulp and 
shred. Peel and shred the oranges, and cut 
up the pineapple into bits. Mix thoroughly 
together, and fill into the grapefruit cups. 
Make a lemon sirup dressing with one cupful 
sugar, one cupful lemon- juice, adding a little 
of the rind. Boil to a thick sirup. Pour over 
the fruit mixture and chill before serving. 

Pineapple-Orange Sherbet 

1 can grated pineapple 2 cupfuls sugar 

1 cupful orange juice 2 lemons 

1 quart water 1 tablespoonful gelatin 

1 teaspoonful lemon 2 egg-whites 
extract 

Boil the sugar and water together until a 
thin sirup, add the gelatin dissolved in a little 
cold water ; when cold, add the lemon and or- 
ange juice and the flavoring. Strain through 
a coarse cheese-cloth. Pour into freezer and 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 89 

partly freeze ; then stir in the grated pineapple 
and the beaten egg-whites and finish freezing. 

Chocolate Custard 

1 pint rich milk 4 eggs 

Yi cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful gelatin 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 2 ounces baker's chocolate 
Pinch of salt 

Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar ; 
then pour over them the scalded milk, stirring 
constantly. Cook until it thickens; then add 
the gelatin that has been dissolved in a little 
cold water. Let this partly cool, then stir in 
the vanilla and the melted chocolate. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Beat up 
until light and foamy. Pour into a mold or 
molds. When firm and cold turn out and 
serve with whipped cream. 

Potato Croquettes 

6 medium-sized potatoes 1 tablespoonful butter 
3 eggs Salt and pepper 

Bread-crumbs Spinach 

Peel, wash and boil the potatoes until tender, 
adding a half teaspoonful of salt to the water. 



90 HOSPITALITY 

Drain, and pass through a potato ricer. Mix 
the melted butter and two well-beaten eggs 
into the potato, season with salt and pepper to 
taste. Form the potato mixture into egg- 
shape, then roll in bread-crumbs and fry a deli- 
cate brown in deep, hot fat. By adding one- 
fourth cupful of spinach to the potatoes you 
will have pale green croquettes. 

EscALLOPED Eggs and Celery 

2 heads of celery , 6 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 2 cupfuls milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Salt and pepper 

Bread-crumbs 

Boil the eggs in their shells until hard. 
Clean and cut the celery into inch lengths and 
boil in slightly salted water until tender. 
Make a cream sauce with the butter, flour and 
milk, and season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Place the chopped eggs, celery and cream 
sauce in alternate layers in a bake-dish, having 
the last layer of the sauce. Cover with but- 
tered bread-crumbs and bake in a moderate 
oven until brown on top. 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 91 

Salmon Loaf with Tomato Sauce 

1 can salmon 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

3 eggs 1 cupful of bread-crumbs 

Salt and pepper Tomato sauce 

Remove the oil, skin and bones from one 
can of salmon and pick into bits. Cream the 
bntter and beat the egg well and add to the 
bread-crumbs; then add the butter and the 
salmon and season with salt and pepper. Beat 
all together and steam one hour in a buttered 
mold, or it can be baked in the oven in a cov- 
ered pan. Make a tomato sauce with one table- 
spoonful each of flour, butter, and add one cup- 
ful tomato juice and season. Place the loaf 
on hot plate and pour the sauce over it. 

Mint-glazed Carrots 

Carrots Sugar 

Butter Mint leaves 

Wash and scrape as many medium -sized car- 
rots as there are persons to be served and cut 
into thin slices. Boil them in slightly salted 
water fifteen minutes, then drain well. Place 
the slices in a saucepan and add to each half- 



92 HOSPITALITY 

dozen carrots used two-thirds cupful eacli of 
sugar and butter and one tablespoonful of 
mint-leaves, minced. Cooli until the carrots 
are well glazed and nice and tender. These 
are nice served with a border of green peas. 

Potato Eissoli&es 

New potatoes Cream sauce 

Deep fat Salt and pepper 

Wash the potatoes, peel, and cut into egg- 
shape, using a sharp knife. Place in cold 
water for twenty minutes, then remove and 
drain. Place in the oven and bake until partly- 
cooked; then fry a delicate brown in deep hot 
fat. Serve with a cream sauce and garnish 
with parsley. 

Sponge-cake Eggs 
Bake a sponge-cake, using any good sponge- 
cake batter. When cold, cut in egg-shape and 
ice with yellow icing; or the sponge-cake bat- 
ter may be poured into egg-shells from which 
the contents have been removed from one end. 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 93 

Clean thoroughly and oil with a little melted 
butter. Place in a pan of salt so they will be 
held upright; then fill about two-thirds full, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Easter Cake 

Make a good loaf cake by following a loaf- 
cake recipe given, or any reliable recipe. 
When baked, cover thickly with white icing. 
On the top of the cake arrange little nests 
formed from strips of citron or orange peel. 
Fill the nests with small candy eggs, or deco- 
rate the cake with candied violets, or candy 
chicks, as liked. 



TABLE DECORATIONS FOR MAY DAY 

May luncheons are particularly popular 
since the month of May offers such a wealth of 
materials and possibilities for table decora- 
tions. Flowers and ferns supply never-ending 
resources; they are so suggestive of spring- 
time loveliness that it is a delight to arrange 



94 HOSPITALITY 

them for table decorations. A deliglitful table 
can be had by placing in the center of the table 
a May-pole two or three feet high ; this can be 
made of a broomstick cut the desired length, 
with standards nailed on one end for supports. 
Wind this around with green ribbon, then dec- 
orate freely with daisies, and heap daisies at 
the foot or base of the pole until the standards 
are concealed. 

Have a ring fastened in the pole at the top, 
and from this have daisy chains extending to 
each plate, ending in tiny May-baskets filled 
with daisies and ferns. Paste a row of daisies 
flat across the top of the place-cards or thrust 
a single daisy through a slit in one corner. 
White, yellow and green should be the colors 
used in all appointments and courses served 
with this table scheme. White china with gold 
bands would be nice or white china decorated 
with a delicate green. 

Another pretty idea for a May-pole luncheon 
is to wind the pole with green ribbon, heap 
moss and ferns at the base, and have a light 
basket of ferns and flowers on the top of the 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 95 

pole. Vines should be trained around tlie pole 
as if growing. Have a chain of smilax reach- 
ing to each plate or to each corner of the table. 
These can end in little May-poles entwined 
with ribbon and smilax, with a tiny May-bas- 
ket on top of each filled with flowers. It 
would be nice to have strands of different 
kinds of flowers, ending in a basket of the 
same kind as the chain ; as for one a strand of 
violets ending in a basket of violets, one pan- 
sies, one valley lilies and so on. Artificial 
flowers can be used in making the strands but 
real flowers should be used in the baskets. 
The favors may be little flower-shaped book- 
lets, containing quotations on each guest's 
particular flower ; for instance, the daisy book- 
let contains daisy quotations, the pansy book 
pansy quotations, and so on. 



Decorations for a May-basket Luncheon 

The table will present a charming picture if 
decorated in the following manner : Procure a 
number of small cheap baskets — they may be 



96 HOSPITALITY 

procured from a five-and-ten-cent store. En- 
amel them in white, and the delicate shades of 
pink, blue, green, lavender, and yellow, also 
gild and silver a few of them. The baskets 
should be filled with small spring blossoms, 
the different flowers harmonizing with the bas- 
kets in which they are arranged. For instance, 
the white blossoms should be in the blue bas- 
kets, or in the pinlv or lavender baskets ; while 
the blue blossoms will prove very effective 
arranged in the cream, yellow or gilt baskets, 
or the silvered ones. 

The pink and red blossoms will look well in 
the pale green, gray, white and silvered bas- 
kets. These baskets should be placed at the 
plates. Over the center of the table suspend 
a large hoop, which should be first covered 
with green cloth, then with vines and ferns, 
with a blossom worked in at intervals. Sus- 
pend this hoop from the ceiling or lights by 
means of four vine-covered ropes. All around 
the hoop hang tiny May-baskets filled with 
small spring blossoms. From this hoop may 
be stretched streamers of ribbon or flowers to 



FOB SPECIAL DAYS 9? 

the baskets at the plates. Tie to the handles 
of the baskets. 

Menus for May Day Luncheons 

Yellow, White and Green Menu 
Marguerites Marguerite Salad 

Asparagus with Yellow Sauce 
Olives Cream Cheese-Parsley Balls 

Ice-Cream with Green Mint Cherries 
Yellow and White Bonbons I^emon Cake 

Pink and White Menu 

Cream of Shrimp Soup Pimiento Sandwiches 

Sweetbreads in Pink Cream Sauce Pink Beet Salad 

Pink and White Radishes 
Pink and White Ice-Cream May-pole Cakes 



Marguerites 

1 dozen round wafers ^ cupful powdered sugar 

1 tablespoonful cream 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

}i cupful chopped nut- 1 egg-white 

meats 1 tablespoonful orange-peel 
Blanched almonds 

Beat the egg-white stiff, and stir in the pow- 
dered sugar, cream, candied orange-peel 
chopped very fine, and the finely chopped nut- 



98 HOSPITALITY 

meats. Spread over the wafers. Decorate tlie 
top with marguerites formed of halves of 
lightly blanched almonds to represent the 
petals, with a bit of candied orange-peel for 
the centers. 

Marguerite Salad 

Tomato jelly Hard-boiled eggs 

Mayonnaise dressing Salt and pepper 

Make some tomato jelly, and mold in shal- 
low molds. Chill, and when cold, turn out on 
lettuce leaves arranged on individual plates. 
Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves, then in 
lengthwise strips, and arrange the whites on 
the jelly for petals of the flower. Work into 
the egg-yolks the seasoning and a little mayon- 
naise. Place this in the center of the flower. 

Cream Cheese Parsley Balls 
To make these, take some good cream cheese, 
and mix into it a tablespoonful of cream and 
one tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. 
Form into balls, and serve in nest of parsley. 



FOE SPECIAL DAYS 99 

PiMiENTo Sandwiches 

1 small can pimientoes 1 dozen olives 

1 cupful cream cheese Mayonnaise dressing 

Salt and pepper Bread and butter 

Chop the pimientoes and work into the 
cheese, also the olives chopped fine. Season 
with salt, pepper and mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. Use as a filling between thin slices 
of buttered bread. 



Sweetbreads with Pink Sauce 

1 pair sweetbreads Cream sauce 

Red vegetable coloring Toast or pastry shells 

Cut the sweetbreads into small pieces after 
they have been parboiled and cooled. Make a 
cream sauce with one tablespoonful each of 
flour and butter, and one cupful scalded milk ; 
stir until smooth, and season with salt and 
paprika, and color with a little red vegetable 
coloring to a nice pink. Place the sweetbread 
in this, and heat thoroughly. Serve on rounds 
of delicately toasted bread or in pastry shells. 



100 HOSPITALITY 

TABLE DECORATIOl^S FOR 
HALLOWE'EN 
The table decoration for a nut lunclieon 
should be carried out, partly at least, with 
nuts. A simple, effective centerpiece is 
made by filling a basket with mixed nuts, and 
placing it on a mat of red autumn leaves. 
Twine the handles and edge of the basket 
with native vines, such as the bittersweet 
bearing bright berries. A nut cake would also 
make an unusual centerpiece. Follow any 
good hickory nut recipe, ice in white and 
decorate with halves of English walnut 
shells. Set the cake on a mat of bright 
sumach, or other bright autumn leaves, or 
wreathe it with chrysanthemums. To deco- 
rate the walnut shells remove the inside, wash 
the shells, and when dry outline brownie faces 
on them. Place them around the sides of the 
cake in a row and above their brownie heads 
make melted chocolate caps. Paint the choco- 
late on with a brush or with the fingers. This 
will not spoil the cake, as the shells will slip 
off easily when you wish to cut it. 



FOE SPECIAL DAYS 101 

For place-cards put fortune verses in tlie 
halves of English walnut shells, outlining 
brownie faces on the outside. Glue these 
shells to the top of correspondence cards. Cut 
out brownie bodies from brown paper and 
paste below, or a body may be outlined on the 
card. A half-cone of brown paper can be 
pasted on top of the brownie head for a cap. 
Below this nut brownie letter these words, 
" I've an idea in my head for you." The name 
of the guest should be lettered on the top or the 
bottom of the card. Have at each plate a small 
fancy basket or box in dull red filled with nut 
and chocolate candies. If you wish something 
more elaborate you can string cranberries and 
peanuts alternately and entwine around the 
principal dishes, or bring them down from the 
chandelier to each plate and fasten to the 
handles of the little baskets holding the bon- 
bons. 

Apple Luncheon 
If apple dishes have a prominent place on 
the menu apples should also form the center- 



102 HOSPITALITY 

piece. Polish red apples until tkey shine and 
heap up in a fancy dish or basket with them. 
If you like you may arrange a row of green or 
purple grapes around the edge. 

For a comic decoration paste on the side 
of each apple, eyes, nose and mouth cut out of 
white, gold or any light-colored paper, if the 
apples are red. If the apples are green or 
white then use black or some dark colored pa- 
per ; or if preferred, little Jack-o'-lantern faces 
can be bought and one pasted on the four sides 
of each apple. Apple cases in which salads, 
frappe and sherbets are served can also be 
decorated in this manner. 



Menus for Hallowe'en Luncheons 

Nut Menu 

Cream of Chestnut Soup 

Oyster Patties Nut Sandwiches 

Apple-nut Salad 

Grape Sherbet Nut Cake 

Nut Bonbons 

Candied Chestnuts Salted Almonds 



FOR SPECIAL DAYS 103 

Apple Menu 

Creani of Carrot Soup 

Brown and White Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Stuffed Baked Apples Creamed Chicken 

Waldorf Salad 
Apple Frappe in Apple Cases Apple Sauce Cake 



Cream of Chestnut Soup 

1 quart chestnuts 3 cupfuls water 

1 pint white stock 1 pint thin cream sauce 

1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 teaspoonful parsley 1 teaspoonful salt 

]4 teaspoonful pepper ]4 teaspoonful sugar 

Select nice large chestnuts and boil in water 
that has been slightly salted for about 
thirty minutes; then remove the brown 
skins and place in the three cupfuls of 
water and boil for at least another half 
hour. Make a thin cream sauce with the 
flour, butter and one cupful of milk and 
one cupful of cream. Season. Pass the 
chestnuts through a sieve, add to this the stock 
and the cream sauce. Simmer slowly for ten 
or fifteen minutes and add more seasoning if 



104 HOSPITALITY 

necessary. Serve in bouillon cups with a tea- 
spoonful of whipped cream on top of each cup. 

Oyster Patties 

Puff pastry 1 pint good milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 pint oysters Salt, pepper 

1 tablespoonful lemon- A few drops of onion- 
juice juice 

Prepare a good puff pastry and bake in 
patty-pans or shallow gem pans. Make a thick 
white sauce with the flour, butter and milk. 
Instead of using all milk you can use one cup- 
ful cream and one cupful stock, season to 
taste. Drain the oysters of all juice before 
measuring, add to the sauce and boil two or 
three minutes. Serve in the patty shells. 

Stuffed Baked Apples 

Tart apples 1 cupful raisins 

1 cupful nut-meats 5^ cupful brown sugar 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon ^ teaspoonful salt 

Chop the nut-meats quite fine, also chop the 
raisins and mix together, add the brown sugar 



FOE SPECIAL DAYS 105 

and the cinnamon, stirring until thoroughly 
blended. Cut a slice off the stem end of tart 
apples, and remove the cores, and part of the 
apple. Fill the cavities with the raisin and 
nut mixture, and bake in the oven until tender. 

Waldorf Salad 

2 cupfuls chopped apple 1 cupful nut-meats 

1 cupful mayonnaise Apple cups 

dressing- 
Peel and core tart apples, and cut up into 
bits, add the chopped nut-meats and dress with 
the mayonnaise, then fill into apple cups made 
by carefully removing all the apple excejDt a 
bit around the skin, just enough to keep the 
cups in shape. Sprinkle the inside with lemon 
juice to keep from getting a dark color. 

Hallowe'en Supper Menus 

Menu No. i 

Oyster Sandwiches Tomato Celery Salad 

Individual Pumpkin Pies 

Stuffed Pears Sponge Cakes 

Boiled Chestnuts 



106 

Mixed Sandwiches 
Quince Loaf 



HOSPITALITY 

Menu No. 2 

Scalloped Potatoes 
Pickles 

Coffee 

Menu No. 3 



Chicken Salad 



Nut Cakes 



Shaved Ham 



Nut Sandwiches 

Molded Vegetable Salad 

Peanut Ice-Cream Fortune Wheels 

Popcorn Fudge 

Menu No. 4 

Brownie Sandwiches Goblin Salad 

Fairies' Delight Night-owl Cakes 

Jack-o'-lanterns 

Hallowe'en Favorite 



Ill 

COMPANY LUNCHEONS IN VARI- 
ETY FOR ALL SEASONS 



CHAPTEE III 

COMPANY LUNCHEONS IN VARIETY 
FOR ALL SEASONS 

There is no more deliglitful way in which 
to entertain one's friends than by giving a 
luncheon or series of luncheons. These may be 
formal or informal affairs. The decorations 
and menu for an informal luncheon may be 
very simple, and need not require much work, 
and is an inexpensive way to entertain. If the 
luncheon is to be a formal one the decorations 
of the table and the menu may be as elaborate 
as one may wish to have them. 

Whether informal or formal, luncheons may 
be made most delightful affairs. Charming 
and effective color schemes may be carried out 
both in the table decorations and in the menu. 
The spring and summertime of the year is an 
ideal time to give a luncheon or series of 
109 



110 HOSPITALITY 

luncheons, since flowers always give a dainty 
yet festive appearance to the table, and one 
may carry out many pretty schemes with them 
with little expense. We give in this book a 
number of color schemes that are easily car- 
ried out. 



Yellow and White 

Grapefruit Cup Topped with White Grapes 
Daisy Canapes Potato Croquettes with Cream Sauce 

Lily Salad Orange Rollovers 

Spring Delight Sunshine and Angel Cakes 

Yellow and White Bonbons 

Daffodils, narcissi, jonquils, tulips and prim- 
roses all lend themselves nicely to decorations 
for a yellow and white table in the spring- 
time of the year. A pretty white bowl filled 
with yellow narcissi or tulips makes a pretty 
centerpiece as also do daffodils. A pretty ef- 
fect is also obtained by using a pretty white 
basket and filling it with yellow blossoms, or a 
yellow basket may be filled with white spring 
blossoms. If candles are used they may be 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 111 

white with yellow holders and white shades. 
Plain gilt-edged cards with the stem of a yel- 
low blossom passed through a slit in one corner 
make nice place-cards. The guests' names 
may be written on in gilt ink. Have at each 
plate tiny white baskets filled with yellow bon- 
bons, or yellow baskets filled with white bon- 
bons. If preferred white boxes decorated with 
flights of yellow butterflies or with yellow blos- 
soms may be used. If possible use gilt-edged 
china or china with a very narrow line of gilt 
on it. 

In making the cream sauce for the potato 
croquettes if not yellow enough add a little 
yellow vegetable coloring. 



Grapefruit Cup 

Grapefruit White grapes 

4 tablespoonfuls pineapple juice 

Cut nice grapefruits in halves crossways, re- 
move the seeds and with a sharp knife separate 
the pulp from the skin. Remove, separate 
carefully into sections and free from the mem- 



112 HOSPITALITY 

brane. Keep the fruit in good-sized pieces. 
Take an equal quantity of wMte grapes, skin 
and remove seeds, and add to the grapefruit, 
then add the pineapple juice. The amount of 
grape juice given ought to be enough for six 
grapefruits. Fill this mixture into grapefruit 
cups and top with white grapes. 

Daisy Canapes 

6 eggs Mayonnaise 

Bread 1 dozen sardines 

1 teaspoonful lemon-juice Salt and cayenne 

Cut thin slices of bread into daisy shape 
with a sharp knife or a daisy cutter. If a 
knife is used outline the daisy on a cardboard 
pattern. Fry a delicate brown on both sides 
in hot butter. Cut the hard-boiled eggs into 
halves, and chop the whites very fine, and run 
the yolks through a sieve. Remove the bones 
and skins from the sardines and run into a 
paste with a little mayonnaise, season with the 
lemon-juice, salt and a pinch of cayenne. 
Spread the bread with this, then place the 
whites of the eggs on the petals, and the yolks 



LUNCHEONS FOU ALL SEASONS 113 

in tlie center. This is an appetizer as well as 
pretty. 

Orange Rollovers 

Rich pie pastry Candied orange peel 

English walnuts Sugar 

1 teaspoonful orange-juice 1 teaspoonful pineapple-juice 

To a half cupful of candied orange peel add 
a few chopped walnut meats, about a fourth 
of a cupful, then add the fruit juices and a lit- 
tle powdered sugar. Both the orange and nuts 
should be chopped very fine. Roll out some 
rich pie pastry and cut into squares. Spread 
some of the orange and nut mixture over each 
square, and roll up like a jelly roll. Bake in a 
moderate oven until a delicate brown. Nice to 
serve with a salad course. 

Spring Delight 

1 tablespoonful gelatin 6 eggs 

2 cupfuls of boiling water 2/3 cupful of sugar 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 1 teaspoonful lemon extract 

extract Yellow coloring 

5^ cupful of nut-meats 

Soak the gelatin in a little cold water ; when 
dissolved add the boiling water and the sugar. 



114 HOSPITALITY 

Place over the fire and bring to the boil, then 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Beat up until it begins to stiffen, then divide 
into two portions; color one portion yellow 
with yellow vegetable coloring and flavor with 
lemon ; leave the other portion white and flavor 
with vanilla. Pour in alternate layers into a 
square mold, sprinkling a few chopped nuts 
between each layer. A little candied orange 
or lemon peel will also add to it. Set on ice 
until firm, then turn out of mold, cut into form 
of bricks. Place on plates and heap around 
them whipped cream. 

Pink and White 

Tomato Bouillon Wafers 

Creamed Fish with Pink Sauce 
Pimiento Sandwiches Strawberry Sandwiches 

Cottage Cheese Salad 

Strawberry Gelatin Pudding Peach Blossom Cakes 

Pink and White Bonbons 

Nothing can make more delightful table 
decorations for a pink and white color scheme 
than sweet peas. Just a big bunch of pink 
and white blossoms arranged loosely in a wide- 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 115 

mouthed bowl, or a dainty basket filled with 
the dainty, fragrant blossoms will make a 
charming centeriiiece. If you wish something 
more elaborate suspend over the table a 
wreath of sweet peas, and from this have sweet 
pea ropes to extend from the wreath to each 
plate where they may be attached to little 
baskets filled with sweet peas in water colors, 
or a blossom or two passed through a slit in 
one corner. 

If one does not care to use flowers alto- 
gether, a very pretty scheme may be carried 
out with pink ribbon and paper. A large pink 
rose Jack Horner pie may be used for the cen- 
terpiece, with narrow pink and white ribbons 
leading to each plate, where they can be tied 
to the handles of little baskets in delicate 
shades of pink, holding white bonbons. 

Cottage Cheese Salad 

Cottage cheese Pimientoes 

Celery White boiled dressing 

Pass the pimientoes through a food chopper, 
and mix into the cottage cheese until it is a 



116 HOSPITALITY 

pale pink in color, add a little good boiled 
dressing and chopped celery. Place on white 
lettuce leaves. 



Strawberry Gelatin Pudding 

1 cupful mashed straw- 1 cupful sugar 

berries 1 cupful cream 

1 lemon % cupful water 
1 tablespoonful gelatin 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Place 
in a double boiler one cupful water, the sugar 
and the juice, and bring to boil, then stir in 
the gelatin, strain and add to the strawberry 
pulp. Chill and when it begins to stiffen up 
fold in the whipped cream. Pour into mold 
and turn out, and surround with whipped 
cream. 



Strawberry Sandwiches 
These are made by spreading thin slices of 
buttered bread with strawberry preserves 
mixed with a few chopped almond meats, al- 
though these may be omitted if liked. 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 117 
Red and Green 

lyCttuce and Pimiento Sandwiches Creamed Beets 

Lobster in Pate vShells 

Tomato Salad Currant Wafers 

Olives Radishes 

Strawberries Cake Confectionery 

For a red and green color scheme red tulips, 
red roses, geraniums or any red flowers will 
be appropriate. The flowers will look pretty- 
arranged in a deep bowl or basket. Use the 
tulips in colors ranging from the bright scarlet 
to the very dark red. Use pale green candles 
in red holders. Serve the strawberries in dark 
green baskets or pails. Touch the edges of the 
place-cards with red or green, and if liked, the 
names may be written on them with red ink. 



Tomato Salad 

Medium-sized tomatoes Lettuce 

Green peppers Cucumbers 

Celery Green mayonnaise 

Choose nice ripe, but firm tomatoes. Dip 
quickly into boiling water and remove the 



118 HOSPITALITY 

skins. Scoop out the insides and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Chop together an equal 
quantity of cucumbers, celery and green pep- 
pers from which the seeds have been removed. 
Mix into this enough green mayonnaise to 
make of the right consistency and fill in the 
cavities in the tomatoes. Chill and serve on 
lettuce leaves on individual plates. 



White Menu to be Used with a Blue and 
White Scheme 

Clam Bouillon in Blue Cups 

Small Biscuits Pineapple Preserves 

White Chicken Salad 

Creamed Potatoes in Blue Ramekins 

White Ice-Cream Angel Food Cake 

Sea Foam Candy in Blue Boxes 

Since the tulip comes from Holland it is a 
good idea to use a vase or bowl of white tulips 
and introduce a " Dutch '' scheme with them. 
Use blue and white china and have at each 
plate a little blue and white windmill. Serve 
the ices in tulip cases and use white bonbon 



LUNCHEONS FOE ALL SEASONS 119 

boxes decorated witli tiny Dutch, figures in 
blue. The name cards may be decorated with 
little Dutch scenes, or Holland post-cards may 
be used with the guests' names written on 
them. The centerpiece may be a little wooden 
shoe filled with tulips instead of the blue bowl 
or vase, if preferred. If candles are used, have 
both candles and shades in white, but have the 
shades decorated with little, quaint Dutch 
figures or blue windmills cut out of dark blue 
paper. 



A Japanese Luncheon 

Menu 

Iced Cantaloup 

Jambalaya of Fowls and Rice Sardine Sandwiches 

Okonomara Salad 

O'cha Ice-Cream Sembei 

Crystallized Fruits 

Tea 

One can obtain so many pretty and artistic 
things with which to decorate a table for a 
Japanese luncheon that one scarcely knows 



120 HOSPITALITY 

wMcli to choose. If you wisli to use flowers 
on the table, use cherry blossoms, wisteria, 
chrysanthemums, irises, Japanese lilies, or any 
of the favorite blossoms of Japan. From the 
chandelier may be suspended Japanese fern 
balls. 

For this luncheon use Japanese ware if pos- 
sible, with its quaint, queer designs of 
flowers, dragons and figures. One can pick up 
at Japanese stores many unique little vases, 
cups and such like that would add to the table 
decorations. 

The place-cards should be decorated with 
the quaint Japanese figures, and the favors 
may be tiny Japanese fans and may serve as 
place-cards as well as favors if liked. 

Since cherry blossoms are so closely asso- 
ciated with the Japanese, being to them what 
roses are to the Westerner, it is nice to have 
cherry-blossom decorations in connection with 
a Japanese luncheon. Select as perfect a 
shaped branch of cherry blossoms as you can 
obtain and plant in pretty pot. Place in the 
center of the table, decorating it with Japa- 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 121 

nese figures. Under this miniature cherry-tree 
place a number of Japanese dolls dressed in 
their native costumes. Have at each plate a 
tiny Japanese vase holding a spray of blos- 
soms. Tiny fans decorated with cherry blos- 
soms may be used for place-cards or favors. 

The chrysanthemum and things Japanese go 
very appropriately together in table decora- 
tions. A very pretty and novel decoration is 
obtained by placing in the center of the table a 
pretty and odd-shaped lantern, partly filling it 
with sand or something to keep it firm, then 
place in it chrysanthemums in colors that har- 
monize with the color of the lantern and the 
other decorations. At each plate have an odd- 
shaped Japanese vase filled with one or two 
perfect chrysanthemums, or tiny Japanese 
parasols may be inverted and filled with blos- 
soms. On one corner of the place-cards paste 
little Japanese figures and in the other corner 
slip through the stem of a chrysanthemum. If 
candles are used have the candle shades deco- 
rated with chrysanthemums or Japanese 
figures. 



122 HOSPITALITY 

O'CHA Ice-Cream 

1 quart cream 1 pint Oolong tea 

% cupful ginger sirup 6 eggs 

Scald the cream in a double boiler, add to it 
the tea which should be quite strong, then stir 
in the ginger sirup and the six eggs, well- 
beaten ; cook in the double boiler until the cus- 
tard coats a spoon. Sweeten to taste, and 
cool ; pour into ice-cream freezer and freeze as 
you would any other ice-cream. Serve in 
glasses with bits of preserved ginger on top. 



Sembei 

1 pint rice flour 4 eggs 

1 pint milk Ya cupful sugar 

^ teaspoonful nutmeg 

If you cannot obtain the rice flour, run rice 
through a coffee grinder or meat chopper. 
Beat the eggs up well, and add the sugar, 
nutmeg and the milk; add the flour which 
should make a dough that will roll out quite 
thin. Cut in fancy shapes and bake a delicate 
brown. 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 123 
Jambalaya of Fowl and Rice 

y2 cupful rice 1 pint cooked chicken 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful minced 
y2 cupful English walnut- onion 

meats Salt and pepper 

Wash the rice thoroughly and place in a 
sufficient amount of boiling water to preserve 
the shape of the kernels when melted. Salt 
well and drain, pour the melted butter over the 
rice. Season with pepper and the onion. Mix 
the chicken and nut-meats broken into bits. 
Put the rice in a deep dish, then cover with the 
meat mixture. Cover and place in the oven for 
about twenty minutes. 



Okonomara Salad 

Madarin oranges Litchi nuts 

Preserved ginger Cucumbers 

Lemon sirup 

Remove the skin from the oranges and slice. 
Remove seeds and membrane. Cook the nut- 
meats in lemon sirup for ten minutes. If you 
cannot obtain the litchi nuts use other nut- 
meats. Cut the cucumbers into cubes, and add 



124: HOSPITALITY 

to the orange and nut-meats, using an equal 
quantity of each. Add half the quantity of 
preserved ginger; that is, if you use a cupful 
each of the other ingredients use only one-half 
cupful of preserved ginger. 

A Snowball Luncheon 

Snowball Hoppy 
Snowball Croquettes Snowball Biscuit 

Snowball Salad 

Snowball Ice-Cream Snowball Cake 

Popcorn Balls 

There is nothing more suggestive of coolness 
than a snowball luncheon. If this luncheon is 
to be given on the porch decorate it profusely 
with snowballs made out of frosted crepe pa- 
per or with cotton batting sprinkled with isin- 
glass to represent frost or snow. With the 
snowballs use cool green, which may be found 
in the ferns and vines. 

Use paper snowballs for the center of the 
table unless the luncheon is given in snowball 
season, then use the real flowers. Green ferns 
tucked in and out among the blossoms will 



LUNCHEONS FOB ALL SEASONS 125 

add to the cool effect. Have at each plate a 
popcorn ball rolled in sugar ; these should be 
placed on a mat of green. 

The menu carried out in snowballs will add 
to decorations of the table. 

Snowball Hoppy 

1 pint pineapple- juice 1 cupful lemon- juice 

1 pint orange-juice 1 cupful sugar 

Shaved ice Fresh fruits 

Place the sugar in a kettle with one-half cup- 
ful water and boil to a thick sirup ; then add 
the other juices, and cool. Form snowballs of 
finely shaved ice, and place one in tall glasses, 
and then fill two-thirds full of the juice. Add 
bits of fresh fruit or whole strawberries or 
cherries. Serve at the beginning of the 
luncheon as you would a fruit soup. 

Snowball Croquettes 

1 pint mashed potatoes 1 cupful white sauce 

Powdered sugar Egg-whites 

Season the mashed potatoes and mix the 
white sauce into them. Form in shape of 



126 HOSPITALITY 

snowballs, roll in bread-crumbs and egg-whites. 
Fry in deep fat, and while hot roll in powdered 
sugar until completely covered. Eice may be 
used instead of potatoes. 

Snowball Salad 

Cottage cheese White mayonnaise 

Lettuce leaves Salt and white pepper 

Season the cottage cheese with salt and pep- 
per and add white mayonnaise or boiled dress- 
ing. Form into shape of balls. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

Use the " ball " scoop which caterers use to 
form the ice-cream snowballs. The snowball 
cakes may be cut from white angel food cake, 
iced in white, and rolled in cocoanut. 



A Fern Luncheon 

Chicken Bouillon with Bits of Parsley on Top 

Creamed Peas Fried Chicken 

Cucumber Salad 

Ice-Cream White Cake 

Green Mints 

Around the edge of the porch suspend fern 



LUNCHEOJSrS FOR ALL SEASOJSTS 127 

balls and hanging baskets filled with ferns and 
trailing vines. In one corner of the porch have 
a fern-covered rockery and spring, which can 
be made by building up a mound of stones and 
sticking the crevices full of ferns. In one side 
of the mound a hole can be left in which is 
placed a wide-mouthed crock cleverly con- 
cealed with ferns. This crock is filled with 
lemonade, kept cool in a bed of ice. By the 
side of this artificial spring hangs a gourd 
dipper, from which the guests can help them- 
selves. 

In the center of the table have a box made of 
birch-bark and filled -with maiden-hair ferns; 
sprays of maiden-hair and asparagus ferns can 
be scattered here and there over the white 
cloth and at each end of the table stand a vase 
or receptacle made of birch-bark filled with 
ferns. 



PAPER, PORCH AND LAWIST PARTIES 

There are great possibilities in the way of 
paper parties for the summer months since 



128 HOSPITALITY 

such, light, airy effects can be so readily pro- 
cured with paper decorations, as well as quite 
artistic table effects, and there is an inex- 
pensiveness about them that has nothing of 
cheapness in it. They are quite the thing for 
those who are compelled to do their entertain- 
ing in a cottage by lake or sea where china 
and silver are not very plentiful with the 
hostess, and also quite convenient for the 
hostess that keeps no servants, since there are 
very few dishes to wash up after the affair, as 
nearly everything can be served in pretty pa- 
per cases. 

The invitations to such a party can be sent 
out in tiny Japanese paper lanterns. Decorate 
the porch and lawn with paper flags and pen- 
nants, paper bells and Japanese paper lan- 
terns, and a profusion of paper flowers can be 
used. A pretty bower can be made by cover- 
ing it with crepe paper and then garlanding it 
with paper flowers. Butterflies made out of 
crepe paper and touched up with water colors 
to make them more brilliant and life-like can 
be suspended from the ceiling of the porch by 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 129 

means of strong, black thread and will look 
quite charming as they flutter in the breeze. 
Japanese paper screens are also appropriate 
and add to the charm of the affair. Present 
each guest as he or she arrives with a paper 
fan; partners can be matched if liked by quo- 
tations of a ^^ Summery '^ nature written on 
these. 

Floral tables are appropriate for almost any 
entertainment, and they give an opportunity 
for a choice of the usually accepted color 
schemes. If several small tables are used, a 
different flower or color scheme can be used 
on each table. Plain white crepe paper will 
make the nicest table cover or background. A 
table covered with pure white paper, with a 
paper decorated with the flowers to be used on 
the table draped around it will make a pretty 
effect, or the decorated paper ribbon that one 
can get in crepe paper now can be crossed in 
the center of the table. A water-lily scheme 
is especially appropriate for a summer gath- 
ering. Decorate the center of the table with 
a bouquet of water lilies, and serve the ices in 



130 HOSPITALITY 

cases made to represent water lilies, tlie yel- 
low ice-cream forming their golden hearts. 
Pink and white lilies can both be used. Koses 
are charming for flower cases, and cherry 
sherbet served in American beauty cases will 
be lovely, or lemon sherbet served in yellow 
roses. Plain cases wreathed with sweet peas, 
forget-me-nots, pansies or small rosebuds 
are especially pleasing. 

Effective Table Decorations for Autumn 
Tables 
The decorations of the autumn tables should 
suggest largely the overflowing bounty as we 
find it symbolized in nature at this season of 
the year, and the color schemes as found in the 
yellow and golds of the ripening grains, 
golden-rod, pumpkins and the autumn leaves ; 
in the purple and white of the grapes ; in the 
red of the apples and the bright autumn ber- 
ries, and such like. This is one of the seasons 
of the year when the hostess can have pretty 
table effects with very little outlay of money 
and very little trouble. 



LUNCHEOJS^S FOE ALL SEASON^S 131 

The chrysanthemmii is certainly the queen 
of fall flowers, with its little buttons, its larger 
blooms, its great balls of yellow and red, of 
the mingled colors, of pale straw, of royal pur- 
ple and its plumes of snow. It certainly de- 
serves a place of honor on the autumn tables. 
A great bowl of these flowers, ranging in color 
from cream through all the rich dull shades 
of yellow to a reddish copper color will make 
a fine centerpiece for the autumn tables. The 
regular chrysanthemum ice cups are very nice 
indeed, and are easy to make. The entrees, 
salads and ices may be served in these, using 
different colors. Candle shades may be made 
in the form of the '^ ragged ^' variety. 

Red and Brown Table Scheme 

Apple Appetizer 

Brown Bread Sandwiches with Pimiento FilHng 

Baked Beans Garnished with Beet Pickles 

Ham Souffle Tomato Salad 

Date Fluff Chocolate Nut Cake 

Red Peppermints in Brown Receptacles 

Brown and red makes a charming color for 



132 HOSPITALITY 

an autumn table, and is not so common as 
the others. Arrange in the center of the table 
a mat of red maple or sumach leaves, and on 
this place an odd-shaped rafila basket filled 
with shining red apples. Have at one end of 
the table a red bowl or basket edged with 
bittersweet vines and berries, filled with choco- 
late candies. At the other end of the table 
have a similar bowl or basket filled with 
nuts. 

String cranberries and peanuts alternately 
and entwine around principal dishes or bring 
down from the chandelier to each plate and at- 
tach to pine cones. Use long pine cones for 
candlesticks, mounting them on red cardboard 
maple leaves for standards. Use red candles, 
and place the candles on mats of brown 
autumn leaves. Brown or red autumn leaves 
may be used for place-cards, lettering the 
names on with black or white ink. If pre- 
ferred the scheme may be carried out with red 
chrysanthemums instead of fruit. Place the 
chrysanthemums in a receptacle made of birch- 
bark or raffia, or any brown bowl or basket 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 133 

will be suitable. Have at each plate a little 
vase made out of a cocoanut shell, filled with 
a few of the red chrysanthemums, or red pep- 
permints. Unique candle holders may be made 
out of chestnut burrs, soaked in water until 
they become pliable, then insert the candle and 
press together until it is held firmly in place. 
Tie together until it is dry. If they refuse 
to stand level, glue to pasteboard founda- 
tions. Red candles look pretty in these hold- 
ers. 

A brown and red scheme can be developed 
nicely with nuts. Arrange in the center of 
table a mat of red maple or sumach leaves, and 
on this place a pretty basket or bowl filled 
with mixed nuts. Have at each plate a small 
fancy basket in dull red filled with chocolate 
bonbons and nut candies. 

Little squares or oblong cards of birch-bark 
decorated with acorns glued on make nice 
place-cards. Pretty baskets may be made by 
glueing acorns over a pasteboard foundation. 
It will not be a bit difficult to plan up a nut 
menu for this luncheon. Nut sandwiches, nut 



134 HOSPITALITY 

salads, nut croquettes, nut cakes and nut ice- 
cream may all be used if liked. 



Apple Appetizer 

Tart apple jelly Currant jelly 

Red apples Chopped almonds 

Take as many nice red apples as there are 
people to be served, cut a slice off the stem 
end and scoop out as much of the flesh as pos- 
sible. Mix together equal quantities of tart 
apple jelly, currant jelly or lemon jelly, and 
mix with half the quantity of chopped al- 
monds. Fill this into the apple shells. Place 
on a brown maple leaf and serve one to each 
person as a relish for the meal. 



Ham Souffle 

1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 cupful milk 1 cupful cooked ham 

1 tablespoonful chopped ^4 cupful bread-crumbs 

parsley Salt and pepper 
3 eggs 

Make a cream sauce with the butter, flour 



LUNCHEOJ^S FOR ALL SEASOIS^S 135 

and milk, season with, the salt, pepper and 
parsley. Add the bread-crimibs and the ham, 
chopped fine. Add the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten, then the stiffly whipped whites. Pour 
into a greased bake-dish and bake in the oven 
for about twenty minutes. A tablespoonful of 
soup stock will add to the flavor of the soufle. 



Date Fluff 

1 cupful stoned dates 1 cupful sugar 

5 eggs 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

1 teaspoonful vanilla Chopped nut-meats 

Stew the dates until tender, then pass 
through a sieve and add the sugar and cream 
of tartar (a tablespoonful of lemon-juice can 
be used instead of the cream of tartar). Stir 
in the yolks of two eggs, then the stiffly beaten 
whites, and whip up until light. Place in a 
ramekin or bake-dish and sprinkle the top over 
with chopped nuts, and bake in the oven fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream or a sauce. 



136 HOSPITALITY 

Brown Bread Canapes 

Boston brown bread Whipped cream 

Made mustard Grated ham 

Nut-meats Salt 

Take as many slices of Boston brown bread 
as will serve the guests invited. Whip up 
some rich cream until stiff, and mix with it 
enough made mustard to make a rich yellow. 
Spread this thick upon the brown bread and 
then sprinkle over with the grated ham. Place 
the half of a walnut meat in the center of each 
canape. 



Chestnut Croquettes 

2 cupfuls boiled chestnut- 3 tablespoonfuls grated 

pulp cream cheese 

Pimientoes 2 eggs 

Thick cream sauce Salt 

After passing the boiled chestnuts through a 
sieve, add the cheese, the beaten yolks of the 
eggs and enough cream sauce to mold nicely. 
Season with salt. When molding place a bit 



LUNCHEONS FOE ALL SEASONS 137 

of pimiento in tlie center of each, croquette. 
Roll in egg and then in bread-crmnbs and fry 
in deep fat a delicate brown. Serve with or 
without sauce. 



Yellow and Green Table Scheme 

Cream Consomme 
Creamed Peas in Carrot Cups 

Egg and Lettuce Sandwiches 
Creamed Chicken in Green Pepper Cases 
Yellow Tomato Preserves Sweet Pickled Carrots 

Olives 

Pumpkin Custard Lemon Pie 

Cake Decorated with Candy Carrots 

Yellow Bonbons 

It is wonderful the color schemes that may 
be carried out with vegetables. A pretty yel- 
low and green scheme may be carried out with 
pumpkins, carrots and little yellow tomatoes, 
with plenty of cress or parsley to give the 
necessary touch of green. Place a large pump- 
kin in the center of the table and around this 
arrange a mound of parsley or cress. Almost 



138 HOSPITALITY 

concealed by the parsley or cress liave a vow 
of the small yellow tomatoes or carrots. At 
each plate have a small pumpkin vase filled 
with sprays of fern or parsley. The place- 
cards may be pale yellow with a spray of 
parsley inserted through a slit in one corner. 
Serve the yellow bonbons in little green bas- 
kets or boxes. Orange or grapefruit baskets 
lined with waxed paper make nice holders for 
the bonbons or for the ice. 



Grape Luncheon 

Grape Menu 
Sardine Sandwiches Stuffed Eggplant 

Spiced Fruits 

Grape Salad Biscuits with Grape Jelly 

Grape Sherbet Grape Jelly Roll 

Glace Grapes 

Very pretty purple and white table schemes 
can be carried out with purple and white 
grapes. Place in the center of the table a circu- 
lar mirror and conceal the edges with bunches 



LUNCHEONS FOE ALL SEASONS 139 

of purple grapes or pur]3le and white grapes 
alternately, with grape leaves interspersed 
among them. Suspend a cluster of as perfect 
clusters of purple and white grapes as you can 
obtain from the chandelier, using purple and 
lavender ribbon for that purpose. This cluster 
should be right over the mirror and its reflec- 
tion in it should give a pretty effect. Have at 
each plate a bunch of crystallized grapes with 
a tiny bow of purple ribbon tied to the stems. 
It would be nice to have the purple and white 
grapes to alternate around the table. Have 
the place-cards to represent grape leaves. Use 
white and purple grapes in making the salad. 

A low green and white basket placed on a 
mat of autumn leaves or ferns and filled with 
red, purple and white makes a simple but de- 
lightful centerpiece. When this kind of a cen- 
terpiece is used a bunch of grapes can be 
placed on a large maple leaf at each plate or 
small green and white baskets may be filled 
with crystallized grapes. These should be 
placed on mats to correspond with the center- 
piece. 



140 HOSPITALITY 

Maple Leaf Luncheon 

Orange Cups 

Browned Chops Rice Croquettes 

Baked Bean Salad Stuffed Tomatoes 

Rolls 

Chocolate Ice-Cream in Shape of Maple Leaves 

Sponge Cake Leaves Maple Bonbons 

Salted Almonds 

A charming effect may be produced with 
maple leaves in the following manner : select a 
branch from a maple tree that is as tree-like 
as possible and insert in a standard of wood 
or in a pot of sand ; cover this with green crepe 
paper and then with vines so that the standard 
or pot will be entirely concealed. Place this 
miniature tree in the center of the table and 
scatter brilliant maple leaves here and there 
over the cloth. Have under the tree two or 
three tiny gilded wheelbarrows filled with gay 
maple leaves; have little gilded forks leaning 
against these. At each corner of the table have 
toy wheelbarrows filled with fruits. 

The place-cards should be in form of maple 
leaves, colored in warm browns and brilliant 
scarlets. The candle shades should be deco- 



LUKCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 141 

rated with maple leaves. Pretty little 
" bushel '' baskets may be filled with nuts and 
bonbons and placed at each plate. The place- 
cards may be decorated with majjle leaves, or 
be in form of maple leaves as desired. 

Popcorn Luncheon 

Menu 

Cream Bouillon with Popcorn 

Popcorn Canapes Popcorn Marguerites 

Salad with Buttered Popcorn 

Popcorn Ice-Cream Balls Popcorn Cake 

Popcorn Dainty 

A delightful and unique luncheon may be 
carried out entirely with popcorn both in deco- 
rations and menu. The popcorn intended for 
the decorations should be popped several days 
ahead of time and kept in a damp place so that 
the grains will be tough enough to string nicely 
without breaking. These strings of popcorn 
should be touched up with gilt and colored 
paints, and then festooned about the dining- 
room and also about the chandelier. From the 
chandelier bring a string down to each plate to. 



142 HOSPITALITY 

the ends of which can be attached popcorn 
balls that contain the favors. Some of the 
popcorn can be strung alternately with red 
berries, and used with the other with good 
effect. 

The centerpiece for the table may be a 
mound of popcorn balls arranged on a mat of 
red maple leaves — ferns could be used instead, 
or a wreath of bittersweet vine and berries 
could be used with good effect around the base 
of the mound. Some of the popcorn balls can 
be rolled in rock candy while still sticky, and 
will then resemble balls of ice, others can be 
rolled in cocoanut, and a few in colored sugar 
to give a touch of red. At each plate have a 
little popcorn basket filled with red and white 
crystallized popcorn; these little baskets can 
be formed out of nougat, molded while still 
warm, and the white popcorn stuck on the 
outside before the nougat has hardened. Wire 
should be used for the handles, around which 
twine narrow red ribbon. Finish with a tiny 
bow at the top. These popcorn baskets will 
give quite a decorative effect to the table. The 



LUNCHEONS FOE ALL SEASONS 143 

favors may be concealed inside of popcorn 
balls at each place. The favors should be first 
wrapped in paraffine paper, and the sugared 
popcorn pressed around them until the ball is 
formed ; these balls should then be rolled in red 
sugar while still sticky. Letter the names on 
the place-cards with the grains of red, un- 
popped corn glued on — the smallest grains ob- 
tainable being used for the purpose. The edges 
of the cards may be touched up with gilt 
paint. 

The cream bouillon should be served with 
perfect grains of freshly popped corn floating 
on the top. Freshly buttered popcorn should 
be served with the salad, which can be made of 
nuts. The ice-cream can be served in shape of 
balls and covered with freshly popped corn 
giving them an excellent resemblance to pop- 
corn balls. A little red sugar can be sprinkled 
over these balls to make them look like the 
others. Cake with a popcorn icing may be 
served, or popcorn and nuts mixed. Recipes 
are given for the other dishes mentioned in 
menu. 



144 HOSPITALITY 

Popcorn Canapes 

1 cupful good milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

3 boned sardines 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 tablespoonful tomato 1 tablespoonful butter 

catsup A pinch of red pepper 

Yz teaspoonful Worcester- 1 tablespoonful cheese 

shire sauce Fresh popcorn 

Make a cream sauce with the butter, flour 
and milk. Stir until smooth and thick, then 
season; to this add the boned sardines, and 
enough freshly popped corn to make a good 
paste to spread. Cut hot buttered toast into 
squares and circles and spread with this paste. 



Popcorn Marguerites 

1 cupful of sugar 3/2 cupful water 

^ teaspoonful cream of 1 ^z% 

tartar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful popcorn Pinch of salt 
Yz cupful nut-meats 

Boil the sugar, water and cream of tartar to 
the firm ball stage. Pour over the beaten white 
of the ^gg\ then when it begins to stiffen up, 
add the popcorn and nut-meats which should 
be passed through a food-chopper, and the 



LUNCHEONS FOE ALL SEASONS 146 

vanilla. Spread on saltines or any wafers or 
crackers. 

Popcorn Dainty 

2 cupfuls maple sugar 1 cupful cream 

% teaspoonful cream of 2 cupfuls popcorn 
tartar 

Cook all but the popcorn to the hard ball 
stage. Remove from fire and beat up until it 
begins to turn creamy, then stir in the large 
crisp kernels of popcorn. Turn into a square 
or oblong pan, well-buttered; then press until 
flat on top, but not hard enough to crush the 
kernels. Cut into bars with sharp knife. 

Table Decorations for Corn Luncheons 
In giving a corn luncheon both the husks 
and corn itself can be used very effectively in 
decorations. The creamy inside husks can be 
woven in such a way as to make pretty mats, 
baskets, cases for salads and ices and lamp or 
candle shades. In making the baskets paste- 
board foundations should be used or what 
would be better still use light baskets for the 
foundation and you will have a true basket 



146 HOSPITALITY 

shape. Cheap baskets can be used for the 
foundation. A woven husk basket filled 
with golden-rod or yellow chrysanthemums, 
wreathed around the edge and handle with 
smilax or any delicate vine, will make a fine 
centerpiece for the table. Tiny baskets made 
of the braided corn-husks should serve as re- 
ceptacles for the bonbons. At each cover can 
be a doily or mat of woven corn-husks; these 
can be decorated with water colors if desired 
— a bit of waving corn would be nice or a 
spray of golden-rod. Little cases for the salads 
and ices can be made by sewing the braided 
strands of corn-husks on plain paper cases 
which can be easily procured from any shop 
that makes a specialty of such things or can be 
easily made at home with a little cardboard. 
These can be decorated to suit the fancy; the 
edges are pretty touched up with irregular 
bands of orange, green or gold. The candle or 
lamp shades should be decorated to match or 
at least harmonize with the decorations on the 
doilies and cases. The name cards can be cut 
from the corn-husks with the names lettered 



LUISTCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 147 

on in gold and green. Little booklets with 
corn-husk covers, tied with green ribbon, will 
make delightful favors. This booklet should 
contain as many blank pages as there are 
guests and should have a small pencil at- 
tached so that it can be passed around for the 
favorite corn recipe of each guest, the hostess 
having hers already written on the first page 
and signed with her name. 

Another very pleasing and novel red and yel- 
low color effect can be carried out with corn 
for a luncheon. Soak red corn for a week, or 
until soft enough to string on wire. The wire 
should be very fine. Form these strings of 
corn into a basket shape ; a foundation can be 
used to shape over if desired. Fill this basket 
with yellow apples, pears, bananas and or- 
anges, or the basket can be made of yellow 
corn and red fruits used or with red chrysan- 
themums. A string of red corn can be en- 
twined in and out among the central dishes; 
ears of red and yellow popcorn should be sus- 
pended from the chandelier over the table. 
Unique place-cards may be made by mounting 



us HOSPITALITY 

red popcorn on yellow cards to form tlie name, 
using mucilage to fasten the names on the 
cards. 

Menus for Corn Luncheons 

Menu No. i 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Corn Oysters Sliced Corned Beef 

Corn in Tomato Cups 

Corn Puffs 

Corn-starch Dainty Dessert Corn-starch Cake 

CrystalHzed Popcorn 

Menu No. 2 
Corn and Tomato Soup Wafers 

Corn Fritters 

Baked Corn with Chicken Corn Salad 

Cornmeal Muffins Quince Honey 

Steamed Indian Corn Pudding 

Little Cakes 

Fruit 

Menu No. 3 

Corn Popovers Grape Jelly 

Hominy Croquettes 

Nut and Celery Salad (in corn-husk cases) 

Buttered Popcorn 

Peach Ice-Cream (in corn-husk cases) 

Corn-starch Layer Cake 
Bonbons Salted Nuts 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 149 
Corn Oysters 

1 cupful corn 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls flour 1 cupful milk 
2 teaspoonfuls baking- 2 eggs 

powder ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Use either canned corn or fresh corn from 
the ear, add the milk, the well-beaten eggs; 
then stir in the dry ingredients well mixed to- 
gether. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat and 
fry a golden brown. Drain on brown paper 
and serve hot. 



Corn in Tomato Cups 

1 cupful of corn 1 cupful bread-crumbs 

1 tablespoonful butter ^ teaspoonful salt 

H teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful grated onion 

Take as many medium-sized tomatoes as 
there are people to be served and remove the 
seeds, after taking a thin slice off the stem-end. 
Mix the corn and other ingredients well to- 
gether. Fill into the tomato cups and bake in 
a moderate oven. 



150 HOSPITALITY 

Corn-starch Dessert 

4 tablespoonfuls corn- 1 pint boiling water 

starch 3 eggs 

1 cupful sugar Pinch o£ salt 

2 lemons 

Mix the corn-starch in cold water and when 
dissolved stir into the boiling water to which 
has been added the sugar and salt and the 
grated rind of one lemon and the juice. Boil a 
few minutes, stirring constantly; then pour 
over the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Mix 
thoroughly and pour into a mold. Serve with 
a sauce or whipped cream. If you wish it a 
cream color add the jolk of one of the eggs. 



Corn Fritters 

2 cupfuls cooked corn 1 cupful milk 

1 teaspoonful salt 3 eggs 

2 teaspoonfuls baking- 2 cupfuls flour 
powder 

To the corn-pulp add the milk, yolks of the 
eggs, salt, and then stir in the flour in which 
the baking-powder has been sifted. Mix 
thoroughly, then fold in the egg-whites. Drop 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 151 

by spoonfuls into very hot fat and drain. 
Serve with maple sugar or sirup. 

Baked Corn with Chicken 

3 tablespoonfuls flour Cheese 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cupful corn 

1 cupful cooked white of 1^ cupfuls milk 
chicken Salt and pepper 

Bread-crumbs 

Make a sauce with the flour, butter and 
milk, stir until smooth and thick, season well 
with salt and pepper. Take two-thirds of this 
sauce and mix into the corn, add the chicken 
chopped fine. Put in a buttered bake-dish, 
cover with the remaining sauce and some 
grated cheese and cover with buttered bread- 
crumbs. Bake in the oven until a delicate 
brown. 

Corn Salad 

2 cupfuls cooked corn Yz cupful of celery 

5^2 teaspoonful salt 54 teaspoonful paprika 

1 tablespoonful gelatin 1 cupful boiling water 

Mayonnaise dressing Tomato 

Dissolve the gelatin in two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, stir into the boiling water, add the 



152 HOSPITALITY 

corn and celery when it begins to stiffen up. 
Pour into individual molds. Chill and turn 
out each mold onto a slice of tomato marinated 
with French dressing. Place on lettuce leaves 
and heap mayonnaise around each mold. 



Birthday Flower Luncheons 

Menu for Pansy Luncheon 

Grapefruit Cup 

Chicken Croquettes with Brown Sauce Celery 

Baked Beans in Brown or Yellow Ramekins 
Brown Bread Nut Sandwiches Cream Cheese Balls 

Banana Salad with Peanut Mayonnaise 

Chocolate Ice-Cream Sunshine Cake 

Chocolate Bonl)ons 

Candied Orange and Lemon Peel 

Cocoa with V\^ipped Cream 

Nothing can be more appropriate than floral 
birthday tables and they are nice for both old 
and young. A very effective color scheme can 
be carried out in yellow and brown by using 
yellow pansies. Ice the birthday cake with 
chocolate icing and wreathe the cake with yel- 
low pansies — a few blossoms scattered over the 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 163 

cake will add to the effect. Yellow candles 
may be used on the cake. Use place-cards in 
brown, with the edges touched up in gilt, with 
the names lettered on in gold ink, and they also 
may be decorated with yellow pansies. Use 
the pretty glazed brown ware with the edges 
touched up Avith gilt for the entrees. Have at 
each plate a little brown bowl or basket filled 
with candied orange and lemon peel, preserved 
ginger and chocolate candies. 



Menu for Red Rambler Rose Luncheon 

Pimiento Canapes 

Lrobster in Shells Tomato Pineapple Salad 

Creamed Corn in Red Pepper Cases 

Beet Pickles 

Strawberry Sherbet Pound Cake 

Candied Cherries 

A very effective birthday table scheme may 
be carried out with rambler roses. Have the 
birthday cake iced in white and placed on a 
mat of ferns, then wreathe with red roses. 
Either red or white candles can be used on 



154 HOSPITALITY 

the cake or they can be alternated. At each 
plate can be a dull red basket filled with can- 
died cherries. Use white place-cards with a 
single rose thrust through a slit in the corner. 
Serve the strawberry sherbet in red rose cases 
and decorate the birthday cake with candied 
cherries. If artificial light is used it would be 
rdce to have red candles with white shades. 



Trimmings for Birthday Cakes 
Trimmings add greatly to birthday cakes 
and many novel effects may be obtained with- 
out a great deal of trouble. 

Birthday candles that may be eaten, holders 
and all, will surprise and please the children. 
Make the candles of marzipan paste and use 
round marshmallows for the holders, sticking 
the candles in little holes in the center. Al- 
mond-meats may serve as the wicks of the 
candles. If the candles do not seem firm place 
a little icing around the hole. Follow any 
favorite cake recipe, and ice the cake in pink 
and white and decorate with as many of these 



LUNCHEONS FOR ALL SEASONS 155 

little candles as tlie age of the boy or girl re- 
quires. These candles may be lighted if liked, 
for the oil in the almond nuts will usually 
cause them to burn for a short time, but 
vv^hether they are lighted or not they make a 
pretty decoration. 

Here is an idea for a girFs birthday cake. 
Bake a round cake and put on a thick icing. 
Place tiny china dolls, one doll for each guest, 
all around the edge of the cake, facing out- 
ward. These little dolls should be dressed in 
crepe paper costumes and little cones made of 
paraffine paper slipped in under the sldrts will 
aid as supports. If the dolls are small and the 
frosting thick they may not need any support. 
When a birthday cake is decorated on the top, 
the birthday candles may encircle the cake in- 
stead of being placed on top. 

Birthday flowers may be formed on birthday 
cakes with small candy mites, or the flat oval 
candies, which are obtainable in any confec- 
tionery store, in different colors. Angelica 
may be used for the leaves. Names and dates 
may also be lettered on with these candies. 



166 HOSPITALITY 

One can obtain little silver and gold candies 
that are nice for this purpose. 

A cake decorated with round flat mints with 
little clown faces outlined on them in choco- 
late or fruit coloring will delight the children. 
Ice the cake before putting on the mints and 
press them in while it is soft. 

One may form all sorts of animals out of 
marshmallows with which to decorate the 
cake. Place the marshmallows on a pan and 
let stand in a slow oven until they soften up ; 
then form into bunnies, bears, rats, mice or 
chicks. One can use allspice for eyes and the 
ears and tails may be cut out of candied fruits. 
Roses may be formed out of marshmallows 
also, and can be dipped into colored fondants 
and used on the cake, making the leaves out 
of angelica, citron or candied mint-leaves. 



IV 



CATERING FOR WEDDINGS AND 
OTHER BRIDAL AFFAIRS 



CHAPTER IV 

CATERING FOR WEDDINGS AND 
OTHER BRIDAL AFFAIRS 

Decorations for Wedding Tables 
White and green is always a popular color 
scheme for bridal tables. This can be carried 
out nicely with white roses, valley lilies, white 
sweet peas, white carnations, white irises, as- 
ters, chrysanthemums, gladioli and other 
white flowers in their season. Pretty effects 
may also be obtained with elder blossoms, dog- 
wood blossoms and white clover. Use with the 
white blossoms vines and ferns for the neces- 
sary touch of green. 

For the gold and white effects can be used 
daisies, yellow roses, golden poppies, butter- 
cups, daffodils, yellow tulips, jonquils, chrys- 
anthemums, asters, golden-rod, marigolds and 
yellow irises; these can be used with white 
blossoms, or the white part of the scheme may 
be obtained with the linen, china and the food. 
159 



160 HOSPITALITY 

To obtain the gold and green effect use ferns 
and vines with the yellow blossoms, and for 
gold and red effects use in connection with the 
yellow blossoms red roses, geraniums, carna- 
tions, poinsettias, tulips, dahlias, gladioli, or 
any red blossoms in season. 

Pink and white color schemes are always 
very popular for wedding affairs. For carry- 
ing out this scheme can be used pink roses, 
pink sweet peas, apple, peach and cherry blos- 
soms, trailing arbutus, gladioli, pink lilies, 
carnations, azaleas, spirea and pink begonias. 

Purple and white effects may be produced 
with violets, lilacs, wisteria, purple irises, hya- 
cinths, asters, pansies, or any other purple 
blossoms. 

There are many effective ways in which the 
flowers may be arranged. A very pretty effect 
may be obtained by suspending a fancy basket 
from the light fixtures over the table. Hang 
it so it will be only a few inches above the 
table and have the vines to trail down upon 
the cloth. Any kind of blossoms desired may 
be used in the basket. The possibilities of this 



CATEKING FOR WEDDINGS i6l 

hanging decoration are numerous and charm- 
ing; for instance, in the autumn the basket 
could be filled with autumn flowers and have 
the vines in their bright autumn colors coming 
down over the cloth. Little baskets to match 
the center basket filled with bonbons may be 
at each plate, with a tiny bouquet or a single 
blossom tied to the handles. 

A rustic basket filled with daisies makes a 
delightful centerpiece, or a daisy-ball can be 
suspended from the light fixtures over the 
table, with daisy chains reaching from it to 
each plate, where there may be small baskets 
of daisies. One flower, such as an iris, is often 
effective in a basket or small vase. One of 
these could be placed at each plate and two or 
three in the center of the table or one each at 
the ends and one in the center. One can pro- 
cure odd-shaped and unique baskets that cer- 
tain flowers will be at their best in. Lilacs 
will look pretty in a green basket, as will also 
pink roses. Daffodils, jonquils, pansies, valley 
lilies, or any short-stemmed flowers look best 
in shallow baskets or vases and arranged as if 



162 HOSPITALITY 

growing. A pretty effect may be obtained by 
filling a long narrow basket with some of these 
short-stemmed blossoms and using as a center- 
piece — a basket about one foot by two would 
do very nicely. 

A shower of valley lilies and pink rosebuds 
suspended over the table is very effective. Use 
pale green ribbons to tie the stems to; or a 
bunch of American beauty roses and valley 
lilies tied together into a loose bouquet with 
tulle ribbon and placed at intervals over the 
table makes a charming effect. Another 
pretty effect is to use a heart-shaped wreath 
for the centerpiece made of flowers and vines ; 
this may either be placed flat on the table or 
suspended from the light fixtures by tulle, as 
desired. 

For pink and white effects, pink roses and 
white hyacinth with asparagus ferns makes a 
pretty centerpiece, arranged in a fancy green 
basket or in a pretty bowl. If a basket with a 
handle is used tulle ribbon may be tied to the 
handle; spirea and asparagus ferns make an- 
other good combination. The trailing arbutus 



CATEKING FOR WEDDINGS 168 

may be used with its own foliage. Pink and 
white sweet peas are nice combined, and a lit- 
tle of their own foliage may be used. 

On the ribbons of the table, on the tulle, 
baskets of flowers and candies may be tiny 
figures of cupids, or tiny hearts can be used. 
A very pretty effect is obtained by making a 
mat of smilax and ferns in the center of the 
table and sticking pansies here and there over 
it, or any small short-stemmed blossoms ; these 
will have the effect as if growing. If you have 
plenty of flowers you can arrange a broad 
plateau of flowers the entire length of the 
table. 

The wedding-cake may very appropriately 
be used as a centerpiece ; in this case it should 
be a decorated cake. The cake may rest on a 
wreath of ferns, or be encircled with a wreath 
of flowers. Candied violets, rose petals, can- 
died citron, lemon and orange rind and an- 
gelica are all well adapted for decorating the 
wedding-cake, also candied cherries and little 
candies. Icing can also be arranged in fanci- 
ful designs. 



164 HOSPITALITY 

Menus for the Wedding Breakfasts or 
Luncheons 

Green and White 

Pineapple Relish 

Spinach Bouillon Wafers 

White Radishes Olives 

Lamb Chops Garnished with Parsley 

Rolls 

Peas in White Sauce Potato Souffle 

Pistachio Nut Salad 

Lemon-Ice Cakes Iced in White and Green 

Green and White Mints 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Cucumbers Olives 

Chicken Cutlets with Asparagus Sauce 

Rice Balls Lettuce Sandwiches 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Mint Sherbet Angel Food Cake 

Salted Pistachio Nuts 

Gold and White 

Grapefruit Cup Topped with White Grapes 

Whitcfish Cutlets with Olive Sauce Hot Rolls 

Chicken Breast in Yellow Aspic 

Potato Cheese Balls 

Banana and Pineapple or Peach Salad Wafers 

Ice-Cream Bride's Cake 

Yellow and White Bonbons 



CATEKI:N^G foe weddings 165 

Gold and Green 

Orange Mint Relish 

Olives Celery Hearts 

Cream of Clam Soup with Whipped Cream 

Lamb Chops or Veal Cutlets Minced Buttered Carrots 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Egg and Lettuce Salad 

Pistachio Cream Orange Cakes 

Mint Macaroons 



Red and Gold 

Grapefruit with Halved Strawberries or Maraschino Cherries 

Cream Consomme Bread Sticks 

Red and Yellow Radishes 

Roast Lamb with Cherry Sauce Pimiento Sandwiches 

Creamed Beets Scalloped Potatoes 

Tomato Salad 

Strawberry Ice-Cream Sunshine Cake 



Red and White 

Red Raspberries 

Baked Whitefish with Tomato Sauce Chicken Croquettes 

Hot Biscuits Strawberry Preserves 

Corn in Tomato Cups Creamed Potatoes 

Bean and Beet Salad Cheese Wafers 

Cherry and Pineapple Dessert 

Assorted Cakes 



166 HOSPITALITY 

Fink and White 

Cherry Appetizer 

Deviled Lobster in Shells Pimiento Sandwiches 

Pink and White Radishes 

Chicken Timbales Potato Balls (with pink sauce) 

Cottage Cheese Salad 

Strawberry or Red Raspberry Whip or Mousse 

Glace Currants (pink and white) 

Cocoanut Cake 

Pink and White Bonbons 

Rose Menu - 

Rose Bouillon (cream bouillon colored with lobster coral) 

Rose Sandwiches 

Lemon Jelly Molds (with rosebud in center) 

Lobster Cutlets 

Rose Potatoes Radish Roses 

Rose Sherbet Wild Rose Cakes 

Candied Rose Petals Marshmallow Roses 

Purple and White 

Grape Juice Cocktail in White Cups 

Fried Fillets of Fish Cauliflower Pickle 

Chicken in, Aspic 
Baked Eggplant Mushrooms in Pastry Shells 

Jellied Fruit Salad 
Grape Juice Charlotte 

Cake Decorated with Candied Violets 
Purple and White Bonbons 
Salted Pistachio Nuts 



CATEEmG FOR WEDDINGS 167 
Wedding Reception Menus 

Menu No. i 

Chicken in Pastry Shells Assorted Sandwiches 

Surprise Croquettes 

Olives Sweet Pickles 

Pineapple-Ice White Fruit Wedding Cake 

Salted Almonds 

Menu No. 2 

Chicken Croquettes Rolls 

Olives Spiced Fruit 

I^obster Salad 

Cream Puffs Angel Food Cake 

Bonbons 

Menu No. j 

Hot Crisp Rolls Fish in Ramekins 

Sweetbreads in Cucumber Jelly Cups 

Olives Radishes 

Strawberry or Raspberry Ice-Cream 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Bonbons Salted Nuts 

Meyiu No. 4 

Sliced Turkey Loaf Assorted Sandwiches 

Salmon in Aspic 

Pickled Beets Cucumbers 

Nut and Cheese Salad 

Orange Sticks 

Assorted Cakes Marshmallow Parfait 

Bonbons 



168 HOSPITALITY 

Chicken Breast in Yellow Aspic 

1 pint stock 1 teaspoonful onion-juice 

1 bay leaf 2 or 3 cloves 

Yz teaspoonful Worcester- Salt and pepper 

shire 3 egg-yolks 

Yi. cupful mayonnaise ^ cupful chopped celery 
5^ ounce gelatin 

Place the stock in a double boiler with the 
bay leaf, cloves, and let simmer a little while, 
then remove and stir in the onion- juice, salt 
and pepper and the gelatin which should have 
soaked in one-half cupful of water for an hour 
or so. Add the mayonnaise, the yolks of the 
hard-boiled eggs rubbed into a paste, and the 
chopped celery. Place bits of the white 
chicken breast in a mold and pour the aspic 
around it. Chill and turn out onto a pretty 
plate when ready to serve. 

Potato Cheese Balls 

1 cupful mashed potatoes 1 cupful grated cream cheese 
5^ teaspoonful mustard Dash of cayenne 

3 eggs Cracker crumbs 

Mix the grated cheese into the mashed po- 
tatoes and season, adding salt to taste, and 
the other seasoning as given. Mold into balls 



CATEEING FOR WEDDINGS 169 

about the size of walnuts after the stMy- 
beaten whites of the eggs have been folded in. 
Roll in cracker crumbs rolled very fine and fry 
in deep fat a golden brown. 

Orange-Mint Relish 

Yz dozen oranges 1 pineapple 

Yi cupful powdered sugar 2 tablespoonfuls mint 

1 tablespoonful lemon- 1 tablespoonful pineapple- 
juice juice 
Crystallized mint 

Remove the skin and the bitter part from 
the oranges and cut up into bits. Peel the 
pineapple, slice and cut into cubes. Mix the 
two fruits together, then sprinkle with the 
sugar and add the mint chopped very fine and 
the fruit-juices. Let stand on ice for an hour 
or so before serving. Serve in sherbet glasses 
or lemonade glasses. Garnish with mint. 

Cherry Sauce 

1 pint cherries 1 pint water 

Cloves and allspice Mint 

1 lemon 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Pinch of salt 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Place the cherries and water together and 



170 HOSPITALITY 

cook until tender; then pass througli a sieve. 
Blend the butter and flour together, add the 
salt and stir in the cherry puree. The spices 
should be simmered with the cherries, while 
the mint should not be added until the last 
thing. Cook until smooth and thick, stirring 
constantly. Serve with the lamb. 

Strawberry Whip or Mousse 

1 pint strawberry-pulp 1 quart cream 

Sugar 

Take some nice ripe strawberries and masli 
into a pulp. Beat the cream up very stiff. 
Sweeten the pulp, then fold in the cream and 
pour into a mold and pack in ice and salt for 
several hours. Turn out when ready to serve, 
slice and garnish each slice with whole berries. 

KosB Potatoes 

Round potatoes Hot fat 

Peel the potatoes, and peel round and round 
as though peeling to the core. To do this use 
a very thin and narrow-bladed knife to keep 
from breaking the continuous peel. Place in 



CATEEING FOR WEDDINGS 171 

ice-cold water, slightly salted, and let stand an 
hour, drain and fry in boiling hot fat as you 
would Saratoga chips. Form into roses, and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

Rose Sherbet 

I cupful orange-juice 1 quart strawberry-juice 

1 cupful pineapple-juice 1 pint water 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful gelatin 

3 eggs Strawberry extract or rose 

Mix the juice and sugar together and dis- 
solve the gelatin in a little cold water and stir 
into the pint of water heated to the boiling 
point; add this to the fruit-juices, and add the 
extract. Pour into a freezer and freeze until 
mushy, then stir in the stiffly beaten white of 
eggs. If not a rose color add enough red fruit 
coloring to make a rose shade. 

Grape- Juice Cocktail 

1 pint grape-juice 1 cupful orange-pulp 

1 cupful pineapple Sugar 

Mix the fruits together and sprinkle with 
sugar; then arrange in glasses and pour the 
grape-juice over them. The pineapple and 



172 HOSPITALITY 

oranges should be cut up into rather large 
pieces. 

Grape-Juice Charlotte 

Grape-juice sherbet Sponge cup cakes 

Freeze some grape- juice as you would for 
other sherbets, adding a little pineapple or 
lemon- juice, if liked. Hollow the sponge cup- 
cakes out and fill with the grape sherbet. Gar- 
nish with nuts or candied violets. 

Surprise Croquettes 
Follow any recipe for rice croquettes, but 
when molding into balls or cones, tuck a bit 
of preserved fruit in the center of each, or a 
bit of nut. Roll in cracker or bread-crumbs 
and beaten egg and fry in deep fat like other 
croquettes. 

Salmon in Aspic 

1 pint clear stock 1 can pink salmon 

1 tablespoonful lemon- ^^ ounce gelatin 

juice Salt and paprika 
Bay leaf and a clove or two 

Make an aspic with the stock and gelatin. 
Simmer the spices in the stock several minutes 



CATEKmG FOR WEDDINGS 173 

and then remove. Dissolve the gelatin in a lit- 
tle cold water and stir into the hot stock. 
Season. When the stock begins to jelly pour 
one-half into the mold, then add the salmon, 
and pour over the remainder of the stock. 
Chill and turn out when ready to serve. The 
pink fish showing through the clear aspic 
makes a very pretty dish. 

Marshmallow Parfait 

1 quart water 2 cupfuls sugar 

2 cupfuls orange-juice % cupful lemon-juice 
1 dozen marshmallows Pinch of salt 
Orange extract 

Place the sugar and water in a saucepan and 
bring to the boiling point. Place the marsh- 
mallows on top of this and cover and let stand 
until soft; then beat up, add the fruit-juices 
and extract. Cool and freeze. Serve in tall 
glasses. 

Potato Souffle 

H dozen large potatoes 1 tablespoonful butter 

]/2 cupful cream 3 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Cook or bake the potatoes until tender, then 



174 HOSPITALITY 

masli up or pass through a potato ricer; add 
the butter, milk and seasoning and beat up; 
then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the 
eggs. Pour into bake-dish and bake until 
puffed up and a nice broAvn. Serve hot in the 
dish in which it has been baked. 

Olive Sauce for Fish 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 slice onion 1 cupful water 

Yi cupful soup stock Yi cupful chopped olives 

Salt and pepper 1 tablespoonful lemon-juice 

Place the butter in a double boiler and add 
the onion, chopped very fine and brown; then 
stir in the flour and when well-blended stir in 
the water and stock heated to the boiling point. 
Stir until smooth ; then add the chopped olives, 
the lemon- juice and the salt and pepper and a 
little paprika. A tablespoonful of chopped 
pimiento will add to this sauce for many. 

Wedding Cakes 
The trimming of a wedding-cake adds much 
to its appearance. In making the cake you can 



CATEEING FOR WEDDINGS 1Y5 

follow any of the recipes given and then deco- 
rate. A very pretty decoration for a wedding- 
cake is to cut hearts out of slices of angel food 
cake, dip these in pink or red fondant. In the 
center of these angel food hearts place hearts 
cut out of candied cherries, if the hearts have 
been dipped in pink fondant. Ice the cake in 
white, and while the icing is still soft arrange 
these little hearts all around the sides of the 
cake and on top, or one larger than the rest 
may be used on the top. 

Wild roses may be cut out of these thin 
slices of angel food cake, dipped in rose- 
colored fondant. Place a drop of chocolate or 
yellow fondant in the center of each. Arrange 
these on top of the cake; the leaves may be 
made in the same manner, dipped in leaf -green 
fondant flavored with pistachio and veined 
with yellow fondant or chocolate. Arrange 
these using angelica for stems. 

Fondant may be piped onto cakes to form 
almost any design or flower wished. Little 
heart-shaped candies on which are lettered 
sentimental verses are nice to decorate wed- 



1Y6 HOSPITALITY 

ding and bridal -cakes. Candied rose petals 
may be cut out and formed into rosebuds and 
flowers, and a wreatb of these with angelica 
or citron leaves can be easily arranged on the 
cake, with a little painstaking care. One can 
obtain all sorts of candy mites and flat mints 
with which a wedding-cake may be decorated. 



Table Ideas for Announcement Luncheons 

The cat-out-of-the-bag idea may be very 
cleverly carried out in the following manner : 
From the lights over the table suspend a pretty 
bag made out of Dresden or flowered ribbon; 
or if preferred the bag may be made out of 
crepe paper in some pretty flower design, or 
some delicate shade. The top of the bag may 
be kept open by means of an embroidery hoop. 
This bag should be filled with pretty blossoms 
that are in season, and from amidst the 
flowers should peep out a wise-looking pussy- 
cat, which may be of china, papier-mAch^ or 
stiff paper. 



CATERING FOE WEDDINGS 177 

At each plate have a little paper bag with 
a cat's head protruding. At the close of the 
luncheon, when the guests pull out the cats 
they find attached to them little heart-shaped 
cards on which are written the names of the 
engaged couple. 



The Secret in the Trunk 

A unique method of announcing an engage- 
ment is by means of miniature trunks placed 
at each plate. The trunk at the bride-to-be's 
plate should contain a ring and a tiny red 
heart, while the others may contain tiny 
cupids bearing a card on which is written the 
name of the fortunate gentleman. 

The centerpiece for the table may be a heart- 
shaped wreath, fastened upright to a paste- 
board foundation, which should be cleverly 
concealed with flowers and ferns. The wreath 
may be made of fine wire, covered with green 
crepe paper, then with small blossoms. From 
the center of this wreath should swing a cupid. 



178 HOSPITALITY 

If preferred the centerpiece may be a minia- 
ture bride and groom all dressed ready for a 
bridal journey; they may be standing beside a 
miniature railroad depot, suggesting a wed- 
ding trip. On the depot platform there might 
be a number of toy trunks. 

After the final course, a small trunk, filled 
with rose petals, is passed and each guest takes 
a handful and showers the bride-elect. 

The cake may be baked to represent a trunk, 
iced with a maple icing, and the straps marked 
on with chocolate. Use strips of candied 
orange peel for the handles and letter the name 
of the bride-elect on the top with tiny candies. 
Tie tiny hearts to the handles. 



A Bouquet Announcement Table 

A unique and charming method of announc- 
ing an engagement is to conceal the names of 
the engaged couple in the hearts of tiny bou- 
quets held by dolls dressed to represent 
bridesmaids. There should be one of these at 



CATEEING FOR WEDDINGS 1Y9 

each plate. For a centerpiece have a minia- 
ture bride and groom standing on a heart made 
of ferns and delicate vines or moss. Decorate 
the place-cards with little bouquets of flowers, 
either done in water colors or appliqued on. 
A novel idea is to serve ice-cream cones in the 
center of bouquets; these should be placed in 
vases in which there is no water, of course; 
or if you prefer you can serve the bonbons in 
cones made of cardboard or pasteboard and in- 
serted in the center of bouquets. 

The names of the engaged couple may be 
simply written on slips of paper and inserted 
in the center of the bouquets or else tiny heart- 
shaped cards can be used for this purpose. 
Have a little end of ribbon sticking out to 
give the guests a hint of what the bouquet 
contains. 

Cherry and Strawberry Shower Luncheon 

Rolls Radishes Strawberry Preserves 

lyobster Patties Strawberry Salad 

Strawberry Sherbet 

Cocoanut Cakes Strawberry Bonbons 



180 HOSPITALITY" 

Tomato Bouillon 

Rolls Cherry Preserves 

Lamb Chops with Cherry Sauce 

Cherry Salad Creamed Beets 

Cherry Gelatin Pudding Cherry Cakes 

Cherry Bonbons 

These lunclieons are nice to give to a bride- 
elect when showering her with strawberry or 
cherry preserves and jellies. 

The table for the cherry luncheon may be 
exquisitely decorated with twigs, with the 
leaves and clusters of the fruit upon them; 
there are not only the red cherries, but the yel- 
low and pink-tinted cherries, and also the 
^' black hearts." These may be arranged on 
the white table-cloth, and a pretty vase hold- 
ing several twigs may serve as a centerpiece. 
At each plate have pretty glasses of delicious 
amber-hued cherry preserves; these are pre- 
sented to the bride-to-be after the luncheon. 
The bride-elect may also be given a booklet 
decorated with cherries done in water colors. 
Each leaf should contain a recipe for preserv- 
ing and serving the fruit and signed by the 



CATERING FOE WEDDINGS 181 

contributor. The cherry bonbons may be 
served in cherry-decorated boxes, and the 
place-cards should be decorated with cherries. 

The strawberry idea may be carried out by 
placing in the center of the table a low fern 
receptacle filled with strawberry vines with 
their bright red berries and blossoms. Plants 
having large clusters of berries and a few 
blossoms should be chosen for this purpose. 
At each plate have a little raflia basket filled 
with large strawberries with the stems left on. 
Strawberry leaves may be carelessly scattered 
here and there over the table-cloth. At the 
bride-elect's plate there should be a dainty lit- 
tle cook-book, the covers decorated with cupids 
and hearts. This book should contain recipes 
for preserving strawberries and also for other 
ways of serving the fruit, contributed by the 
guests. 

Have tiny jars of strawberry preserves at 
each plate to be eaten with the rolls. The 
place-cards may be decorated with a few leaves 
of strawberries done in water colors. The 
favors may be little strawberry emerys. The 



182 HOSPITALITY 

strawberry bonbons should be served in little 
baskets. If candles are used have white can- 
dles with pink shades. 



A Clover Shower Luncheon 

Chicken Patties Sandwiches 

Red and White Radishes 

Tomato Salad Cherry Tarts 

Whole Strawberries Ice-Cream 

Clover Cakes 

Green and Pink Mints 

This is really a linen shower, but the de- 
signs on the linen should be in clover-leaf de- 
sign and the embroidered pieces may all be 
done in clover designs. The decoration of the 
house and table should be in clover blossoms 
and leaves. Have for the centerpiece of the 
table a low rustic basket filled with clover- 
blossoms, and leaves as if growing. Delicate 
trails of clover-leaves and blossoms should ex- 
tend from each corner of the basket to the cor- 
ners of the table and here attached to small 
horseshoes of clover-blossoms. At each plate 



CATERING FOR WEDDINGS 183 

have little enameled wheelbarrows filled with 
home-made bonbons and the top decorated 
with a mass of clover-blossoms. The place- 
cards may be decorated with pressed clover 
leaves ; the ones on the bride-elect's card being 
the lucky four-leaved clovers, while those on 
the others may be the common trefoils. If can- 
dles are used have them creamy white with 
pink shades. Decorate the ice-cream with 
four-leaved clovers cut out of crystallized 
mint. The strawberries should be served in 
little baskets enameled white— a creamy 
white. Serve the radishes on green glass 

plates. 

The pieces of linen should be placed in boxes 
decorated with four-leaved clovers. 



A Rose Shower Luncheon 
Any bride-to-be whose home is to be a subur- 
ban one will be delighted with a rose shower. 
Each girl is asked to bring a rose-bush. Of 
course, these are in pots all ready to be set out 



184: HOSPITALITY 

when convenient. The dining-room can be 
beautifully decorated with roses. Full-blown 
roses can be tied rather loosely on a strong 
cord and the result will be a number of ropes 
of roses which are festooned about the frieze 
of the room. Eoses are also arranged about 
the rooms in bowls and baskets. The center- 
piece for the table should be a large bouquet of 
roses, and across the table have drifted rose- 
petals. At each plate have a single rosebud to 
which is attached a small cardboard heart, 
bearing an appropriate quotation. A few suit- 
able quotations are given below ; 

When we should live together in a cosy little cot. 

Hid in a nest of roses, with a fairy-garden spot, 

Where the vines were ever fruited and the weather ever 

fine 
And the birds were ever singing for that old sweetheart 

of mine. 

— R11.EY. 

What glory then for me, 

In such company? 

Roses plenty, roses plenty, 

And one nightingale for twenty. 

— Ei^izABETH Browning. 



CATERING FOR WEDDINGS 185 

Jasmine is sweet and has many loves. 
And the broom's bethrothed to the bee; 
But I will plight with the dainty rose, 
for fairest of all is she. 

— Hood. 

*Tis said as Cupid danced among 
The gods, he down the nectar flung, 
Which on the white rose being shed 
Made it ever after red. 

— Herrick. 

For there the rose, o'er crag and vale, 
Silltana of the nightingale, 
The maid for whom his melody, 
His thousand songs are heard on high. 
Blooms blushing, to her lover's tale. 

— Byron. 

Flowers of all hues, and zvithout thorn, the rose. — Milton. 



The refresliments can consist of lobster-pat- 
ties, creamed peas served in pretty white paper 
cases, edged with pink ; tomatoes with mayon- 
naise, served on lettuce leaves ; pink ice-cream, 
which can be served in little earthen pots with 
a rose sticking in each, the top covered with 
grated chocolate to represent earth; cakes, 



186 HOSPITALITY 

iced in pink, and chocolate, witli whipped 
cream tinted pink, on top. 

The menu given for a rose luncheon under 
wedding receptions may be very appropriately 
used. 

A Basket Shower 

The invitation cards can be decorated with 
little baskets of flowers cut out of post-cards 
and appliqued on, then the edges touched up 
with gilt. The rooms should be charmingly 
decorated with baskets of flowers. Grape and 
other fruit baskets can be enameled in pink 
and white. The pink baskets can be filled with 
white flowers while the white baskets should 
be filled with pink blossoms ; these baskets can 
be suspended here and there about the rooms 
by means of ribbon to harmonize or placed on 
stands, mantels and so on. 

The bride-elect is showered with baskets, 
large and small. First might come two of 
the guests with a large clothes-basket or ham- 
per filled with spring blossoms. On investiga- 
tion it is found to be nearly full of small 



CATERING FOR WEDDINGS 187 

kitchen utensils bought at the five and ten- 
cent stores, pink paper, and on top of the pink 
paper the flowers are placed; then the next 
should be a market basket filled with all sorts 
of queer packages, a work basket, all fitted out 
ready for " the stitch in time,'' a waste-basket 
with flaring top, fllled with pink and white 
roses, a hanging-basket containing an aspara- 
gus fern or oxalis, and one or two fancy little 
baskets which contain handkerchiefs and 
towels or anything preferred. Last of all she 
should be showered with little crepe paper 
baskets filled with blossoms — each guest 
throwing one at her simultaneously. 

The centerpiece for the table can be a fancy 
basket made out of raffta or paper rope, or can 
be a boughten one, in delicate green and filled 
with pink and white rosebuds and delicate 
ferns. Pink and white sweet peas could be 
used instead of the rosebuds. At the guests' 
plates have smaller baskets filled with pink 
and white rosebuds or sweet peas, from the 
handles of which can be suspended tiny gilt 
hearts. White candles with pink shades, 



188 HOSPITALITY 

edged with a row of gilt hearts, will add to the 
effect. Pink and white bonbons can be served 
in little baskets made out of paper rope in 
delicate green, the edges of which can be 
touched up with gilt paint. 

The refreshments can be almost entirely 
served from baskets. The sandwiches can be 
served from a low basket, the edge decorated 
with rosebuds and ferns. Creamed chicken 
can be served in little pastry-baskets, and the 
salad in little baskets made of lettuce leaves. 
The ices are served in little green baskets, the 
top decorated with candied flowers, and the 
angel food cake can be iced in white and deco- 
rated with pink candy hearts bearing little 
sentimental verses. 



A Springtime Luncheon for a Bride-elect 
Green, the color of spring, should be used as 
the color scheme, except for the touch of pink 
for the bride-elect, which is the novel feature 
of the luncheon. Foliage plants, ferns and 
trailing vines from the woods, with a few 



CATEKING FOE WEDDINGS 189 

white hyacintlis and lilies-of-tlie-valley can be 
used in decorating the rooms. A mat of ferns 
is arranged in the center of the table and on 
this is placed a white basket filled with 
maiden-hair ferns, white hyacinths and lilies- 
of-the-valley. At the bride-elect's plate is a 
small bouquet of pink rosebuds tied together 
with narrow green ribbon. At the other places 
are small bouquets of the valley lilies. The 
honor guest's chair is marked by a wreath of 
pink flowers tied to the back with green ma- 
line. The heart-shaped place-cards are cut out 
of pale green cardboard, except the bride- 
elect's card, which is of pink cardboard deco- 
rated with a tiny cupid. 

The green-and-white idea, with the touch of 
pink for the bride-elect, is carried out in the 
refreshments served. The lettuce sandwiches 
are rolled, a few tied with pink ribbon, the rest 
with green ribbon. Sweetbreads, garnished 
with asparagus tips, are served in paper cases 
made by covering plain cases with white crepe 
paper and tinting the edges pale green, except 
the bride's which is pink. The salad is made 



190 HOSPITALITY 

from tlie white meat of the chicken, celery and 
chopped olives, with a white mayonnaise dress- 
ing. The portion served to the honor guest is 
on pink rose petals. The green mints are 
served in white paper rose-cases. White 
vanilla ice-cream in heart-shape is served on 
white plates wreathed with smilax and the 
bride-to-be's with pink rosebuds and smilax. 
The angel food cake is cut into squares, iced in 
white, then decorated with green candy 
hearts; the bride-elect's with tiny pink heart- 
shaped candies. Green and white candles are 
used. The guest of honor is showered with 
packages done up in pink, white and green. 



Menus for Announcement Luncheons 

Grapefruit Cup Topped with Maraschino Cherries 
Chicken Cutlets 
Stuffed Red Peppers 

(served on heart-shaped pieces of bread) 

Heart-shaped Biscuit Strawberry Preserves 

Sweetbread Tomato Salad (served on Lettuce Leaves) 

Ice Cream in Heart-shaped Cases Pink Heart Cakes 

Heart-shaped Bonbons 



CATEHmG FOR WEDDINGS. .191 

Tomato Bouillon 

Quail on Heart-shaped Pieces of Toast 

Potato Chips Hot Rolls Currant Jelly 

Cucumber Salad in Lettuce Cups 

Ice-Cream in Heart-shape with Strawberry Sauce 

Salted Almonds Little Cakes 

Mentis for Spring Luncheons 
Cream Bouillon with Bread-sticks 
Scalloped Scallops and Mushrooms in 

Heart-shaped Ramekins 
Veal Fillets Rice Croquettes 

String Bean Salad 
Vanilla Mousse with Strawberries Cocoanut Cake 

Cherry Cup 
Chicken Sandwiches Currant Sandwiches 

Baked Stufifed Cucumbers 
Lettuce and Asparagus Salad Wafers 

Strawberry Ice-Cream 
Assorted Cakes Bonbons 



Scalloped Scallops and Mushrooms 

1 pint scallops 1 cupful mushrooms 

1 cupful cracker crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
1 cupful milk 1 tablespoonful flour 

Salt and pepper 

Make a cream sauce with the butter, flour 
and milk, season to taste, then stir in the mush- 



192 HOSPITALITY 

rooms and cook a few minutes. Place in the 
bottom of a bake-dish a layer of crackers, pour 
in a little mushroom cream sauce, then add 
half of the scallops, then a layer of cream 
sauce, then the remainder of the scallops. 
Cover with cracker-crumbs and bake in the 
oven for about twenty minutes or until a nice 
brown on top and the scallops are cooked. 



Baked Stuffed Cucumbers 

Cucumbers (large) 1 cupful bread-crumbs 

1 cupful chopped chicken 1 slice bacon 

1 egg 1 teaspoonful parsley 

1 tablespoonful butter Salt and pepper 

Take large cucumbers and peel and halve; 
scoop out all the seeds. Mix the bread-crumbs 
and the chopped cooked chicken, shred the 
fried bacon up into small bits, and add ; season 
and moisten with the beaten egg and the but- 
ter (melted). Fill the cavities with this. 
Place in a bake-pan with a little water and 
bake for forty or more minutes, or until the 
cucumbers are nice and tender. Place each 



CATEKIKG FOK WEDDINGS 193 

half on a plate and garnish with watercress 
or parsley. 



TABLE DECORATIONS FOR WEDDING 
ANNIVERSARIES 

The wedding anniversaries which are most 
frequently celebrated are the paper wedding, 
cotton wedding, the wooden wedding, the tin 
wedding, crystal wedding, china wedding, sil- 
ver wedding and golden wedding. Occasion- 
ally the ruby, pearl and diamond weddings are 
celebrated. 

Wedding anniversaries are popular events, 
worthy of being celebrated in our very best 
manner. Under each wedding anniversary 
menus are given for luncheon, dinner or sup- 
per. 

The Paper Wedding 
It will be quite easy to plan for a paper 
wedding anniversary table in this day when 
one is able to get crepe paper in such amazing 



194 HOSPITALITY 

variety, both, in richness and coloring, and in 
unique and interesting designs. The texture 
of this paper lends itself to every shape and 
fancy of decoration. 

If you wish something simple yet effective in 
way of table decorations use odd-shaped bas- 
kets woven with crepe paper rope, making 
these as you would raffta baslcets. They may 
be made or procured in any shade desired ; but 
the dark shades will prove most effective, al- 
though very pretty color effects may be ob- 
tained with the paler shades. A pale green 
basket is pretty filled with pale pink or with 
white flowers. A pale yellow basket filled with 
blue or white flowers also makes a pretty color 
scheme. A dark green basket filled with deep 
red roses makes a striking and charming cen- 
terpiece, or a brown basket with yellow blos- 
soms, or a dull blue basket with white or yel- 
low blossoms. 

Cute little bonbon holders to match the bas- 
ket in the center of the table may also be made 
of this paper rope. Fill these with kisses or 
caramels wrapped in waxed paper. Paper 



CATEKING FOE WEDDINGS 195 

cases made in form of lettuce or cabbage heads 
are nice in which to serve salads and ices. 
Use waxed paper to line these cases. 

The new paper applique work is nice to use 
for the table decorations for this anniversary. 
Passe-partout paper in different colors is used 
for the applique work. Designs are cut out 
of this gummed paper and applied upon 
place-cards, bonbon boxes, ice cups, paper 
plates, lamp shades and such like. Color 
schemes may be nicely carried out in this way, 
using blue and white, pink and white, green 
and white and such like schemes. The designs 
may be conventional or may be applied to form 
scenes, people and so forth. 



Paper Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 
Assorted Sandwiches 

Green Salad in Paper Lettuce Cases 

Creamed Peas in Paper Cabbage Cups 

Strawberry or Cherry Sherbet in Paper Rose Cases 

Little Cakes with Paper Frills 

Bonbons Wrapped in Delicate Shades of Crepe Paper 



196 HOSPITALITY 

Dinner Menu 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Creamed Fish in Paper Cases 

Olives Pickled Cucumbers 

Lamb Chops with Paper Frills 

Creamed Potatoes in Paper Ramekins 

Hot Rolls 

Tomato Salad (served on a lettuce leaf on paper plates) 

Ice-Cream in Paper Cases 

Assorted Cakes Bonbons 

Supper Menu 

Sandwiches (wrapped in waxed paper) Marguerites 

Stuffed Olives 

Oyster or Chicken Salad (in paper cases) 

Ice-Cream in Paper Cases Lord Baltimore Cake 

Caramels 

Table Decorations for the Cotton Wedding 
The decorations for a cotton wedding should 
be in white except for a touch of green. Snow- 
balls make a pretty decoration if flowers are 
to be used, or any white blossoms may be used. 
Place the white bowl on a mat made of cotton 
and sprinkled heavily with diamond dust or 
mica. The most effective decorations for a cot- 
ton wedding are balls of cotton batting, sprin- 
kled with diamond dust, placed on a cotton 



CATEEING FOK WEDDINGS 197 

mat or on a mat of ferns. A plate of popcorn 
balls rolled in rock candy, chopped up, also 
makes an appropriate centerpiece. If you 
have access to cotton-plants, have cotton balls 
at each plate, or these could be made. The 
place-cards may be made of cotton cloth with 
the names lettered on. 

Pretty baskets made of cretonne or pretty 
flowered goods of some kind could be filled 
with ferns and flowers, and smaller baskets or 
boxes could be used for the bonbons. 

Menus for the Cotton Wedding 

' Luncheon 

Assorted Sandwiches White Chicken Salad 

Cottage Cheese Molded in form of Cotton Bales 

Potato Balls with White Sauce 

Pineapple Snowballs Angel Food Cake 

Cotton Candy 

Dinner Menu 

Clam Bouillon with Whipped Cream 

Creamed Whitefish in Pastry Shells Pickled Onions 

Roast Chicken or Veal 
Riced Potatoes Creamed Turnips 

Orange Salad Topped with White Grapes 

Cocoanut Snowballs Cotton Bales (Cakes) 

Cocoanut Cubes Popcorn Balls 



198 HOSPITALITY 

Supper Menu 
Hot Fluffy Biscuits Pear Preserves 

White Fruit Salad 

Creamed Chicken in Rice Cups Pickled Cauliflower 

Cocoanut Macaroons 



Table Decorations for the Wooden 
Wedding 

It is best to leave the dining-room table 
without a cover, using only a few mats, since 
you will wish to show as much wood as pos- 
sible. The centerpiece may be a pretty rustic 
basket filled with wildwood beauties; or a 
woven willow-basket filled with red blossoms 
of some sort. A little birch-bark boat filled 
with water lilies would be charming. The 
place-cards may be birch-bark or thin cards of 
wood with the names burnt in with a needle. 
Wooden plates should be used and these may 
be decorated with pressed ferns and flowers 
gummed around the edge; or pretty designs 
cut from post-cards or magazines. Cover the 
plates with waxed paper. Delightful little 



CATEKI^G FOR WEDDINGS 199 

wooden nut-bowls may be obtained to hold the 
nuts and bonbons. The wooden Dutch shoes 
or little pails are nice in w^hich to serve salads 
and such like. Line these with waxed paper 
before placing the food in them. 

Since wood alone gives a dull tone to a table 
it is well to introduce a touch of red into both 
the table decorations and menus. A wooden 
bowl filled with red blossoms would make a 
harmonious centerpiece, and at each end of the 
table might be wooden bowls of rosy red ap- 
ples or other red fruits. The candies may be 
red and will look nice in the little wooden re- 
ceptacles. 



Wooden Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 

Baked Bean Sandwiches Chocolate Sandwiches 

Tomato Salad on Wooden Plates 

Spiced Pears 

Chocolate Pudding with Maple Sauce 

Cake Iced to Represent Wood 

(Iced with Maple Icing and Grained with Chocolate) 
Maple and Chocolate Bonbons Salted Nuts 



200 HOSPITALITY 

Dinner Menu 

Tomato Bouillon 

Stuffed Baked Fish with Brown Sauce 

Stuffed Parker House Rolls Spiced Peaches 

Roast Beef with Brown Sauce 

Baked Beans in Wooden Bowls 

Salad in Wooden Pails Browned Potatoes 

Pickled Beets on Wooden Plates 

Strawberries in Pails lyittle Cakes 

Chocolate Macaroons Nuts 

Supper Menu 
Brown Bread Sandwiches 
Rice Croquettes with Cheese Sauce 

Salad in Wooden Receptacles 
Chocolate Ice-Cream in Wooden Cases 
Chocolate Almonds Maple Caramel Cake 

Candies 



Chocolate Pudding with Maple Sauce 

4 eggs ^ cupful sugar 

2 cupfuls scalded milk 2 ounces chocolate (melted) 

1 cupful whipped cream ^ cupful figs 

1 teaspoonful vanilla ]4 cupful dates 

H cupful water Maple sauce 

Beat tlie yolks of the eggs up well, then add 
the sugar; stir in gradually the scalded milk, 
then the unsweetened chocolate. Put in a dou- 



CATERING FOR WEDDINGS 201 

ble boiler and stir until it thickens and coats 
the spoon. Let stand until cold, then stir in 
the whipped cream, pour into a freezer. Cut 
the figs and dates up fine, or pass through a 
food chopper and add one-fourth cupful sugar 
to the water and add the fruit and cook until 
tender, flavor with vanilla. When the cream 
is almost done, stir in the stiffily-beaten whites 
of the eggs and the fruit mixture which should 
be cold, and finish freezing. When done place 
in a mold and let stand for an hour or so 
packed in ice and salt. 

To make the maple sauce place in a double 
boiler one cupful of water, one-half cupful 
maple sirup or sugar and a pinch of salt ; when 
it comes to a boil stir in one tablespoonful of 
corn-starch that has been blended in one- 
fourth cupful cream. Stir until smooth and 
thick, add a small pinch of cinnamon. Let cool 
before pouring around the frozen pudding 
when served. 

The Tin Wedding 
Use only the bright new tin. Tinware may 



202 HOSPITALITY 

be made quite decorative by enameling the out- 
side in white or in delicate shades and stencil- 
ing on them conventional designs, or passe- 
partout paper may be applied in decorative ef- 
fect on white or delicately tinted backgrounds. 
If liked this can be gone over with clear var- 
nish. Delightful effects may be obtained in 
this way, and one would scarcely be aware that 
the food was being served from tin utensils. 

The centerpiece for the table may be formed 
of two tin funnels by placing the two small 
ends together ; this makes a unique centerpiece 
that may be filled with flowers and ferns. A 
tin water-pot, or a tin seaside pail are also 
possibilities. Small toy horns filled with 
flowers or bonbons may be found at each plate. 

New pie-tins may serve as plates, and tin- 
cups may be used for the coffee. Creamed 
chicken, peas, corn or potatoes may be served 
in small tin toy tubs or pails ; these may also 
be used in which to serve salads if they are first 
lined with waxed paper. Heart-shaped jelly 
molds are nice for this purpose. The place- 
cards may be heart-shaped bits of tin, which 



CATEEING FOE WEDDINGS 203 

the tinsmith will cut out for jou. Paint the 
names on these. 

Tin Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 

Cream Consomme in Small Tin Cups 

Stuffed Rolls 

Cheese Souffle Baked in Tin Pudding Pan and Served in It 

Creamed Peas in Individual Tin Tubs 

Salad Served in Individual Tin Molds 

Meringue Mousse White Cakes 

Bonbons Nuts 

Dinner Menu 

Mushroom Soup in Tin Cups Panned Clams 

Stuffed Olives Sweet Pickles 

Roast Chicken or Turkey 

Scalloped Potatoes 

(served in tin-pan in which they are baked) 
Hot Muffins (served in tin-pans in which they are baked) 

Strawberry Preserves 

Salad (served in individual tin-tubs) Cheese Wafers 

Prune Souffle (served in tin pudding-pan) 

Cake Candies 

Slipper Menu 

Clam Bouillon in Tin-cups Wafers 

Creamed Chicken or Oysters in Tin Molds 

Sandwiches 

Molded Fruit Salad Assorted Cakes 



204 HOSPITALITY 

Meringue Mousse 

6 eggs 1 teaspoonful almond 

3 cupfuls water extract 

2 cupfuls of sugar 1 quart whipped cream 

Beat up the whites of the eggs very stiff. 
Make a thick sirup with the water and sugar, 
boiling it until it spins a thread. Place the 
egg-whites in a dish and pour the hot sirup 
over them and beat up until light and foamy, 
add the almond extract and carefully fold in 
the whipped cream, when the egg mixture is 
cool enough. Pour into a mold and pack in 
ice and salt and let stand for several hours. 
This is nice served with preserved or candied 
fruits and with fresh fruits also. 



Prune Souffle 

1 pound best prunes 5^ cupful sugar 

4 eggs Prune kernels 

Wash the prunes well and soak overnight, 
add the sugar and simmer very slowly until 



CATERIKG FOR WEDDINGS 205 

the prunes are tender and plmnp. Slip out the 
stones and chop the prunes. Crack the stones, 
and chop up very fine, and add to the prunes. 
Beat the whites of the eggs up until stiff, then 
stir lightly into the prunes. Place in a bate- 
dish and bake about twenty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. Serve with whipped cream or a 
sauce. 



Cheese Souffl]& 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2/3 cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 pinch of cayenne 
2/3 cupful grated cheese Salt to taste 

3 eggs 

Blend the butter and the flour together in a 
saucepan, then stir in the milk and season. 
Cook a few minutes, then stir in the egg-yolks 
and the cheese. When cool add the stiffly- 
beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a but- 
tered bake-dish and bake for about thirty min- 
utes, or until like a custard when done. Serve 
right from the oven in the dish in which it has 
been baked. 



206 HOSPITALITY 

Cream of Mushroom Soup 

1 can mushrooms 1 quart chicken stock 

1 cupful cream 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Salt and pepper 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Place the stock, water may be used, and the 
mushrooms in a saucepan and simmer slowly 
for about thirty minutes. Blend together in 
a double boiler the butter and the flour and 
then stir in the cream, stirring constantly un- 
til smooth and thick; stir this into the mush- 
rooms. Season to taste and serve with toasted 
croutons. 



For the Crystal Wedding 
The table decorations for the crystal wed- 
ding can be made one of the most attractive of 
all the wedding anniversaries ; especially is this 
so if the wedding-day comes during the sum- 
mer months, for what can give a more delight- 
fully cool effect than the sparkling crystal? 
The dining-table should be a picture in spar- 
kling glass. Use this to the exclusion of china 
as far as practicable. 



CATERING FOR WEDDIN^GS 20r 

A pretty centerpiece for a hot summer day 
would be a square or circular chunk of ice 
placed on a tray. Pick out a cavity in the cen- 
ter of this block of ice to form a holder for 
flowers and ferns. Fill the tray with flowers 
and ferns, also, so as to completely conceal it. 
If you do not care for the ice centerpiece then 
you might try the effect produced by placing a 
tall slender crystal vase on a mirror, conceal- 
ing the frame with a wreath of flowers. This 
is very effective. 

If artificial light is to be used on the table 
use white candles in crystal holders, with 
shades made of frosted crepe paper or paraf- 
fine paper. The place-cards may be little 
squares of isinglass or mica with the names let- 
tered on with green paint. It is nice to intro- 
duce a touch of color by using a little colored 
glass among the clear crystal, for instance the 
bonbon holders can be pale green filled with 
rock candy or crystallized fruits, and the 
relishes may be served on pale green glass 
plates. Sprays of autumn leaves crystallized 
with alum or other similar solutions make 



208 HOSPITALITY 

charming decorations. Crystal icicles may be 
suspended from the light fixtures. 



Crystal Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 

Cream of Salsify Soup 
Molded Chicken Celery Sandwiches 

Cucumber Salad 

Crystal Dainty White Cake (with crystallized flowers) 

Crystallized Fruits 



Dinner Menu 

Clear Consomme 

Whitefish with Cucumber Jelly Pickled Onions 

Roast Veal . Creamed Potatoes 

Hot Rolls 

Jellied Celery Salad Cheese Wafers 

JelHed Crystallized Fruit Dessert 
Rock Candy Glace Grapes Fancy Cakes 



Supper Menu 
Chicken Sandwiches Celery Rolls 

Grape and Nut Salad 

Pineapple Sherbet Angel Food Cake 

Crystallized Fruit Crystallized Popcorn 



CATEKING FOR WEDDINGS 209 
Crystal Dainty 

3 tablespoonfuls corn- 3 cupfuls water 

starch 1 3/2 cupfuls su|jar 

2 lemons Crystallized pineapple 
8 eggs 

Dissolve the corn-starcli in a little cold 
water and stir into the water when it has been 
brought to a boil. Remove from the fire and 
stir in one tablespoonful butter. Grate the 
rind and squeeze the juice and stir in the 
sugar. Add this to the corn-starch, whip in 
the whites of the stifly-beaten eggs. Line a 
mold with crystallized pineapple and turn in 
the clear corn-starch mixture. Set on ice, turn 
out and serve with a clear sauce or with 
whipped cream. 



Crystallized Fruit Dessert 

Lemon jelly Crystallized white grapes 

Crystallized pineapple Candied orange-pulp 

Make a clear lemon- jelly, following the 
recipes that come with gelatin. When this be- 
gins to set drop in bits of the crystallized 



210 HOSPITALITY 

fruits. Line the mold also witli the fruit and 
pour in the jelly. Let stand until firm and 
turn out and serve with whipped cream. 



Cucumber Jelly for Fish 

3 large cucumbers 1 stalk celery 

1 slice onion 1 tablespoonful lemon-juice 

J/2 bay leaf 1 teaspoonful salt (level) 

1 pint water 3 tablespoonfuls gelatin 
Salt and paprika 

Pare and slice the cucumber and place in a 
saucepan with the water; then add the stalk 
of celery, cut into bits, the onion and bay leaf. 
Simmer slowly until the vegetables are tender, 
then remove the celery, onion and bay leaf. 
Pass through a sieve. Dissolve the gelatin in 
a little cold water and stir into the hot pur^e. 
Color pale green with a little spinach-juice or 
green coloring. Pour into a ring mold. Turn 
out and heap the fish up in the center of this. 
If liked no coloring need be added and you 
will have more of a crystal color. The puree 
should be seasoned with salt and a dash of 
paprika and the lemon- juice added. 



CATEEIKG FOR WEDDmGS 211 

Table Decorations for the China Wedding 
The cliina wedding may be celebrated in a 
more formal manner than the ones that have 
preceded it, and the decorations may be of 
greater simplicity. Choose the very prettiest 
china vase, bowl or jardiniere you can obtain 
to hold the flowers — these may be few or many 
as desired — but should be arranged to harmo- 
nize with the rest of the decorations and should 
be placed where they will give the best effect. 
The china wedding will give you the chance to 
display your very best china. If you have any 
rare old china now is the time to bring it forth. 
Use for the centerpiece of the table a pretty 
china bowl or vase to harmonize with the rest 
of the china used on the table and fill with 
blossoms and ferns. It is nice to carry out 
color schemes with the china, other table deco- 
rations and with the menu. 

If you wish something more novel in way of 
table decorations use for a centerpiece two 
dolls dressed to represent a bride and groom ; 
have the doll dressed in a gown the duplicate 
of the original wedding-gown. At each plate 



212 HOSPITALITY 

have small dolls dressed to represent brides- 
maids; they may be holding tiny bouquets in 
their hands. The relishes and bonbons may be 
served in odd-shaped china dishes which may 
often be picked up at small expense. 



China Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 

Fruit Soup 

Lobster Newburg Chicken Sandwiches 

Rice Croquettes 

Tomato and Cheese Salad 

Ice-Cream Wafers 

Pink and White Macaroons Cocoanut Cake 

Bonbons 

Dinner Menu 

Cream Consomme 

Salmon Loaf with Tomato Sauce 

Celery Spiced Pears 

Roast Turkey or Chicken 

Creamed Corn in Green Pepper Cases Creamed Spinach 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Cheese Crackers 

Pistachio Cream White Fruit Cake 

Ginger Creams Salted Nuts 



CATEKING FOR WEDDINGS 213 

Supper Menu 
Rolls with Chicken Filling Nut Wafers 

Strips of Veal (breaded) 
Salmon and Lemon Jelly Salad 

Cream Cheese and Pimlento Balls 
Frozen Peaches Little Cakes 

Bonbons 



Lobster Newburg 

1 pint lobster Salt, cayenne, and pinch of 

y2 cupful cream nutmeg 

1 tablespoonful each of 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

lemon-juice and sherry 3 eggs 

Place the butter in a saucepan or chafing- 
dish, place in the picked lobster and seasoning 
and heat slowly. Add the lemon-juice and 
sherry and cook a few moments longer; then 
add the cream into which has been beaten the 
yolks of the eggs. Stir until thick. 

Salmon Loaf with Tomato Sauce 

1 can salmon 1 cupful cooked rice 

Salt and paprika 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Pick all skin and bones from the salmon and 
mix with the rice into which has been worked 



214 HOSPITALITY 

the butter. Season to taste witli salt and pep- 
per and a dash of paprika or cayenne. Mold 
into shape of a loaf and bake in the oven a nice 
brown. 



Tomato Sauce 

1 can tomatoes 2 stalks of celery 

1 slice onion 3 sprigs of parsley 

1 bay leaf 2 cloves 

3 peppercorns Salt 

1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

Simmer the tomatoes, celery, onion and 
parsley with spices for twenty minutes. Pass 
through a sieve. Blend together in a double 
boiler the flour and butter, then stir in a cupful 
of tomato puree. Season with salt to taste. 



Decorations for the Silver Anniversary 
Delightful table schemes can be carried out 
for the silver wedding, which is the one most 
often celebrated. If you wish something sim- 
ple, but quite effective, use a silvered basket 



CATEHmG FOR WEDDINGS 216 

filled with lilies-of-the-valley or some delicate 
white blossoms and ferns, or with pink La 
France roses. This basket may be placed on 
a silver mat, and mats to match may be placed 
at each plate, on which place small silvered 
baskets filled with pink bonbons, or blossoms 
to match those used in the centerpiece. If 
you wish something a little more dignified use 
a silver bowl instead of the basket as the holder 
for the flowers and ferns. 

Use silver candlesticks and as much other 
silver on the table as good taste suggests. A 
shower of small silver wedding bells may be 
suspended from the overhead lights if liked, 
using silver tinsel to suspend by. The edges 
of the place-cards should be touched up with 
silver or be cut out of silvered paper. The 
ices may be served in little cases made of sil- 
vered paper; if liked these may be decorated 
with little silver bells around the edge. 

Have the menu in white in as far as pos- 
sible, with a touch of green and perhaps pink. 
Little cakes iced in white with the wedding 
and anniversary dates put on in tiny silver 



216 HOSPITALITY 

candies would be nice to serve with pink or 
white ice-cream. 



Silver Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 

Macedoine of White Fruits 

Sweetbread Patties Rose Sandwiches 

Chicken Breast with Asparagus Tips 

White Grape and Celery Salad 

Pineapple-Ice Marshmallow Cakes 

White and Pink Bonbons 

Dinner Menu 

Cream of Clam Soup with Whipped Cream 

Olives Mixed Pickles 

Creamed Salmon in Patty Shells 

Creamed Cauliflower Potato Balls 

Chicken a la Maryland, Rice Balls 

Apple and Sweet Pepper Salad 

Ice-Cream Fancy Cakes 

Cocoanut Macaroons 

Silver Bonbons 

Cheese Crackers 

Supper Menu 

Salad Sandwiches Sweet Sandwiches 

Veal Croquettes Potato Chips 

Endive Salad Cheese Wafers 

Lemon-Ice Silver Cake 



CATEKING FOR WEDDINGS 217 

The Pearl and Ruby Wedding 
Anniversaries 

The pearl and ruby wedding anniversaries 
are not so often celebrated as the others; yet 
there are delightful ideas that can be carried 
out in the table decorations for such a celebra- 
tion. Almost perfect imitation of real pearl 
can be found in beads and fancy ornaments, 
and one may form unique baskets and holders 
with these; they should be filled with white 
roses, sweet peas or other white blossoms and 
delicate ferns, and should be suspended from 
the light fixtures over the table where their 
beauty can be fully seen. A wedding-cake iced 
in white and decorated with the small pearl- 
like looking candies that one can obtain would 
make a nice centerpiece if placed on a mat of 
pale green and wreathed with white blossoms 
and ferns, or surrounded with little pearl- 
colored candles in birthday candle-holders. 
The place-cards may also be decorated with 
tiny pearl beads around the edge. 

The decorations for the ruby wedding should 
be in ruby red. Deep red roses in a ruby-col- 



218 HOSPITALITY 

ored glass vase can be used for tlie centerpiece. 
Use as mucli ruby-colored glassware on the 
table as good taste suggests. A deep red bas- 
ket filled with deep red blossoms could be used 
for the centerpiece instead of the vase. Small 
red baskets filled with candied cherries should 
be at each plate. 

Pearl Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 
Cream of Celery Soup Reception Flakes 

Creamed Corn Chicken Salad 

Hot Biscuits Quince Honey 

White Radishes 

Pearl Cream Pearl Cakes 

White Grapes 

Dinner Menu 

Clam and Oyster Soup with Whipped Cream 

Creamed Scallops and Mushrooms 

White Radishes Celery 

Chicken Fillets with White Sauce 

Rice Balls 

Stuffed Onions Scalloped Potatoes 

White Grape Salad Wafers 

Grapefruit Sherbet Pearl Cake 

Bonbons Crystallized Pineapple 



CATERING FOE WEDDINGS 219 

Supper Menu 

Grapefruit Cup Topped with White Grapes 

Assorted Sandwiches JeUied Chicken Salad 

Hominy Croquettes 

Pearl Ice-Cream Uttle Cakes 

Bonbons 

Sweetbread Patties 

Pair of sweetbreads 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 cupful rich milk or 1 tablespoonful flour 

cream 2 tablespoonfuls mush- 
y2 dozen oysters rooms 

Salt and pepper Pastry 

Separate the sweetbreads and parboil in 
slightly salted water for a half hour, simmer- 
ing slowly. They should be soaked an hour 
before parboiling. Separate into small pieces. 
Blend together in a double boiler one table- 
spoonful of butter and the same amount of 
flour ; then stir in the rich milk or thin cream 
and stir until smooth and thick. Season well 
with salt and pepper; then add the sweet- 
breads, the oysters and the mushrooms and 
cook a few minutes longer. Line patty-pans 
with good puff pastry and bake a nice brown. 
Fill the creamed sweetbreads into these before 
serving. 



220 HOSPITALITY 

Creamed Scallops with Mushrooms 

2 cupfuls scallops Vi cupful cream 

Yt. cupful mushrooms 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt and pepper 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Reserve the liquor from about the scallops 
and add to the milk. Blend the butter and 
flour together in a double boiler and add the 
milk and liquor and stir until smooth and 
thick. Stir in the scallops and the mushrooms 
and cook for a few minutes ; then fill into pas- 
try-shells or serve on bits of toasted bread, cut 
into fancy shapes. A dash of cayenne may be 
added. 

The Golden Wedding Anniversary 
The color scheme for a golden wedding 
should be carried out in gold-and-white, or 
blue-and-gold. Yellow roses, tulips, poppies, 
or any yellow blossoms that are in season can 
be used. Golden-rod would make nice autumn 
decorations. Either white, blue or gilded bas- 
kets can be used as holders for these blossoms, 
and used as a centerpiece. As the golden wed- 
ding has a dignity of its own there should be 



CATEKING FOR WEDD^GS 221 

a certain simplicity about the affair ; but flow- 
ers are always appropriate no matter the form 
of celebration. 

Use gold-banded china on the table as far as 
possible and have gilt-edged cards for place- 
cards; these would be charming if decorated 
with the silhouettes of the bride and groom in 
gold; gold paper could be used for these sil- 
houettes. Small gilded baskets or cornucopias 
of gilt paper can be at each plate ; these should 
be filled with yellow bonbons. One can obtain 
pretty gold-lined dishes in which to place the 
nuts and crystallized fruits. Sherbet or ice- 
cream can be served in glasses of Bohemian 
glass ; this glass is decorated in gold and adds 
to the general effect. 

Golden Wedding Menus 

Luncheon Menu 

Orange-Ice 

Golden Biscuits Yellow Peach Preserves 

Banana Salad 

Golden Fish Balls with Hollandaise Sauce I.emon Tarts 

Gold Ring Cakes Yellow Ice-Cream 

Bonbons Candied Ginger 



222 HOSPITALITY 

Dinner Menu 

Golden Consomme 

Baked Fish with Hollandaise Sauce 

Yellow Peach Mangoes Celery Hearts 

Fillets of Chicken with Cream Sauce 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes Creamed Corn in Carrot Cups 

Egg and Cheese Salad 

Orange Sherbet Sponge Cake 

Yellow Bonbons 

Supper Menu 

Ginger and Orange Sandwiches 

Deviled Eggs Sweet Potato Puffs 

Yellow Fruit Salad 

Orange Bavarian Cream I^emon Drops 

Yellow Bonbons 

Deviled Eggs 

% dozen hard-boiled eggs 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 teaspoonful anchovy Pinch cayenne 

paste 1 teaspoonful catsup 
Salt 

Kemove the yolks from the eggs and work up 
into a paste with the butter, catsup and 
anchovy. Tomato or mushroom catsup may be 
used. When thoroughly blended and seasoned 
fill into the egg cavities. Serve on lettuce 
leaves or rounds of toast. 



CATERING FOR WEDDINGS 223 
Orange Bavarian Cream 

2 cupfuls orange-pulp 1 teaspoonful orange 

and juice extract 

1 cupful water 1 cupful whipped cream 

^ box gelatin >4 cupful sugar 

Dissolve the gelatin in half the water. 
Place the other half with the sugar over the 
fire and when at the boiling point stir in the 
gelatin. When cool add the orange-juice and 
pulp and extract. When it begins to thicken 
up stir in the whipped cream. Beat up until 
stiff, pour into a mold, turn out when ready 
to serve and garnish with orange carpels. 



LIBRARY 



CONGRESS 




